TABLE OF CONTENTS 


Dedication and acknowledgements 
Preface 


PART 1: MUTUAL RECEPTION IN THEORY 


Chapter 1. Mutual reception: an introduction 
Reception defined: five forms 

Hierarchy of reception 

Mutual reception vs mixed reception 

Mutual reception: with or without aspect? 
Mutual reception in Jyotish 


Chapter 2. Mutual reception: a fresh perspective 
The significance of mutual reception 

Reception analogy #1: planets as tourists 
Reception analogy #2: planets as diplomats 


The symbiosis of planets, siqns and houses 
The role of the houses 


The use of derivative houses 


Chapter 3. Mutual reception: a scientific model 
Quantum astrology and theoretical sign exchange 
Gedankenexperiment 

The valence model of siqn exchange 

The exchange uncertainty principle 


Chapter 4. Mutual reception: the elements of analysis 
Evaluating planets via diqnities 

Retrograde planets 

Evaluating planetary combinations via diqnities 
Mutual reception’s psychological effect 

Control planets 

The gestalt of mutual reception 


Chapter 5. Mutual reception: recommended chart formats 


The visible planets 
The lunar nodes 
The sidereal zodiac 


The whole sign house system 
Aspects and orbs 


PART 2: MUTUAL RECEPTION IN PRACTICE 


Overview 


Chapter 6. Exchanges with the 1st house lord 
Chapter 7. Exchanges with the 2nd house lord 
Chapter 8. Exchanges with the 3rd house lord 
Chapter 9. Exchanges with the 4th house lord 
Chapter 10. Exchanges with the 5th house lord 
Chapter 11. Exchanges with the 6th house lord 
Chapter 12. Exchanges with the 7th house lord 
Chapter 13. Exchanges with the 8th house lord 
Chapter 14. Exchanges with the 9th house lord 
Chapter 15. Exchanges with the 10th house lord 
Chapter 16. Exchanges with the 11th house lord 


Chapter 17. Summary observations 
Chapter 18: Cautions and strictures 


APPENDICES, GLOSSARY, INDEX, BIBLIOGRAPHY 


Appendix 1: Essential dignities 

Appendix 2: The mathematics of mutual reception 
Appendix 3: Parivartana Yoga 

Appendix 4: Avasthas 


Glossary 
Index of case studies 


Bibliography 
About the author 


Dedication 


This book is dedicated to Axel Harvey, friend and colleague of three decades, with 
whom | shared many discussions on traditional astrology. Alas, this manuscript took 
shape too late in his life for him to participate as | had hoped in the technical edits. 
lf ever the phrase “a scholar and a gentleman” was deserved, he owned it like no 
other. 


Acknowledgements 


Thanks to my wife Diane for her moral support and encouragement of my studies 
over these many years. Without ever ceasing to be a fan of and editor for my many 
mystery novels, she always said | was destined to write an astrology book. Maybe 
this is the one she was thinking of. 


I’m forever indebted to my teacher Hart deFouw, whose many courses I attended for 
a dozen years and more. Without his instruction, | would still be a “hungry ghost” 
looking for answers. Without his counsel and direction, this book would not be 
complete. 


Thanks as well to a number of people who read this manuscript in draft form and 
provided me valuable feedback in its final stages: Kenneth Bowser, for his sidereal 
perspective on aspects, dignities, houses and reception; Ryhan Butler, whose de- 
tailed and constructive criticism enabled me to address issues regarding some key 
definitions, references to classical authors and, indeed, the tone of some sections of 
this book; Robert Hand, for clarifying the role of aspects in the classical application 
of reception; and Anthony Louis, for his helpful comments on dignities, mixed re- 
ceptions and the summary observations of Chapter 17. These guys have done their 
best to keep me on track; any errors that remain are my responsibility alone. 


Preface 


Is astrology converging or diverging? 


We live in interesting times with respect to astrology, when multiple cross-currents 
of theory and practice now compete for the attention of the neophyte and seasoned 
practitioner alike. Coexistent with astrology columns in hundreds of print publica- 
tions and thousands of website blogs, there’s also been a rising tide of scholarship. 


Via the work of Deborah Houlding, John Frawley and others, we’ve seen a strong 
revival of traditional astrology promoting the techniques of William Lilly. Although 
largely sprung from the practice of horary astrology, it has equal currency and 
growing application in natal and mundane analysis. 


Thanks to Project Hindsight (Hand, Schmidt & Zoller) many long-lost manuscripts 
in Greek and Latin have been translated, their techniques tested and put into prac- 
tice by astrologers such as Demetra George, Chris Brennan and other advocates of 
the Hellenistic tradition. 


Courtesy of scholars such as Benjamin Dykes, modern translations of texts by prom- 
inent Arabic astrologers are being published, bringing to light techniques practiced 
in their era. 


Independent of western astrology’s evolution, Jyotish (Vedic astrology) has been 
practiced as a living tradition — unchanged in India for centuries — and is now en- 
joying popularity in the west, thanks to books and courses by Hart deFouw, David 
Frawley and others. 

As a consequence, there are perhaps now more choices of astrological systems 


available than ever. Some astrologers will embrace a school and choose to work 
within the confines of a tradition; others will sample here and there, seeking to 


find a workable methodology in a hybrid approach that can only be called non- 
traditional. 


No doubt this was the way that western astrology itself evolved — not within the 
confines of a closed system, but with a best-of-all-worlds approach that over the 
centuries gathered up ideas and techniques from Persian, Babylonian, Indian, Arab, 
Egyptian and Greek influences. Perhaps even purists in the day may have decried 
the activities of such synthesizers; the echoes reverberate to this day. 


But as a guru of my acquaintance once said, “It only takes a narrow mind to point 
out the differences in things; it takes a broad mind to see the similarities in things.” 


In their day, cubism and surrealism provoked storms of controversy in the world of 
visualarts. Similarly, jazz and rock were once regarded as devil's music. Even in sci- 
ence, a bastion of rationality, quantum physics knocked Newtonian mechanics for a 
loop when the behavior of atomic particles proved radically different from that an- 
ticipated by classical physics. 


It remains to be seen whether astrology will splinter into mutually-exclusive 
schools of theory and practice or eventually come together under the equivalent of 
a “unified field theory.” Whatever happens, there'll always be core elements of as- 
trological technique that endure, even if only because they are consistently reliable. 


| propose that one such technique is that of mutual reception. Oddly enough, 
although most people know conceptually what it means, there's very little written 
about it, and therefore scant understanding. And when understanding is thin, its 
application is virtually non-existent. This is particularly ironic in the case of mutual 
reception by sign, which exists in more than 40% of all charts. 


The purpose of this book is to make clear what mutual reception is, and provide 
techniques for its interpretation when found in the natal chart. 


PART 1 
MUTUAL RECEPTION IN THEORY 


To bring a matter to perfection, 
It helps to have mutual reception. 


~ Anonymous 


Chapter 1 


Mutual reception: an introduction 


Reception defined: five forms 


In its essence, reception refers to a situation where one planet is located in a sign, 
or portion of a sign, considered the domain or honored place of another planet. In 
other words, Planet A is seen as visiting a portion of the zodiac where Planet B has 
influence. Thus, Planet A is “received” by Planet B (or Planet B is receptive to Planet 
A), much as a guest is welcomed by a host into his home, his summer cottage, his 
vacation condo, his recreational vehicle, or his tent. 


The word dispositor is often used to describe the planet that holds the power. The 
simplest form of this is the ruler of the sign in which another planet is found. Much 
like a landlord-and-tenant relationship, the landlord is the one with clout. If he is 
of a friendly disposition, he may accommodate the tenant; if unfriendly, he may dis- 
pose of the tenant. 


Within traditional astrology, reception is typically considered a prerequisite for a 
functional aspect between planets. Based on guidelines established by astrologers 
of antiquity, eg, Abu Ma’shar, Al-Biruni, Ibn Ezra and Bonatus, reception of one kind 
or another was deemed vital in order to “enable” an aspect between two planets. 
Indeed, in the absence of such reception, the matter promised by the aspect of two 
significators would often fall short of “perfection” or completion. 


In traditional astrology, reception occurs across five different zones: domicile (sign), 
exaltation, triplicity, term, and face. These five forms of reception are presented 
below in descending order of significance. The first two are considered major forms 
of reception, the other three minor. 


Reception by sign 


In this form of reception, Planet A occupies a sign ruled by Planet B, who is thus 
considered to receive Planet A in its domicile. 


If Mars is in Leo, Mars is received by the Sun who rules the sign of Leo. Conversely, if 
Sun is in Aries or Scorpio, it is received by Mars who owns those two signs. Note that 
traditional sign rulership applies throughout this text —- Mars rules Scorpio, Saturn 
rules Aquarius, Jupiter rules Pisces. 


Reception by sign can be one-sided, or reciprocal. In the latter case, when two plan- 
ets occupy one of each other’s signs, eg, the Sun in Aries and Mars in Leo, we call 
this mutual reception. Since this is the subject of this text, there will be much more 
on this later. 


Reception by exaltation 


In this form of reception, Planet A occupies the exaltation sign of Planet B, who is 
thus considered to receive Planet A in its place of honor. 


If the Moon is in Pisces, it is received by Venus who is exalted in Pisces. Conversely, 
if Venus is in Taurus, irrespective of occupying its own sign, it is also received by the 


Moon who is exalted in Taurus. 


Note that reception by exaltation can be one-sided, or reciprocal, since we can 
always find a scenario wherein two planets occupy, respectively, each other's sign of 
exaltation. 


Although this is indeed a form of mutual reception (by exaltation), it is not the topic 
of this book. Similarly, for the other forms of reception — triplicity, term and face 
described below. 


When I discuss “mutual reception,” I'll be referring almost exclusively to planets 
that occupy each other's signs. This will become evident in Part 2 where | present 
the 66 combinations of house lord interaction. 


Reception by triplicity 
In this form of reception, Planet A occupies an element ruled by Planet B, who is 


thus considered to receive Planet A by virtue of triplicity. To follow this, you may 
wish to refer to Appendix 1, 1 


In a nutshell, fire signs are ruled by the Sun in a day chart, Jupiter in a night chart. 
Earth signs are ruled by Venus by day, the Moon by night. Air signs are ruled by Sat- 
urnin a day chart, Mercury in a night chart. Water signs are ruled by Mars, day or 
night. 


(Regarding Water triplicity lordship, the scheme above adheres to that of Ptolemy. 
A further explanation can be found in Appendix 1.) 


If in a day chart, the Sun is in Gemini, then it is received by Saturn who rules all air 
signs by day. If in that same chart, Saturn is in Sagittarius, then it is received by the 
Sun, who rules fire signs by day. 


If in a night chart, the Moon is in Aries, it is received by Jupiter who rules fire signs 
by night. If that Jupiter is in Virgo, it is received by the Moon who rules earth signs 
by night. 

Reception by triplicity can be one-sided or reciprocal, although options for reciproc- 
ity are restricted to interactions between day-lords (Sun, Venus, Saturn and Mars) or 
night-tords (Jupiter, Moon, Mercury and Mars). 


Reception by term 


In this form of reception, Planet A occupies a “term” ruled by Planet B, who is thus 
considered to receive Planet A by virtue of term. (Note, in some texts, these same 
five-fold divisions of a sign are called bounds.) 


To follow this, you'll need to refer to Appendix 1, . In the 
scheme of terms, each sign is divided into five unequal portions, each term ruled by 
one of the five true planets (Mercury, Venus, Mars, Jupiter and Saturn) without the 
luminaries. 


If Mercury is in 15 degrees Libra, it falls in the term of Jupiter, who is thus consid- 
ered to receive it. If Jupiter is in 10 degrees Aquarius, it falls in the term of Mercury, 
who thus receives it. 


Reception by term can be one-sided or reciprocal, although options for reciprocity 
are restricted to interactions between the true planets, since the Sun and Moon 
have no terms. 


Reception by face 


In this form of reception, Planet A occupies a “face”, or decan, ruled by Planet B, 
who is thus considered to receive Planet A by virtue of face. 


Some of the astrological literature uses the terms “face” and “decan” interchange- 
ably, but there are two different systems of decans, or decanates. 


In the simpler of the two, each sign is divided into three equal decans. These are 
generally assumed to be of Egyptian origin, although Jyotish uses exactly the same 
logic to determine the drekkana, one of the many “harmonic” or divisional charts 
unique to Jyotish. 


The first is ruled by the sign-lord itself, the remaining two by the lords of the 
succeeding signs of the same element. So if Libra is the sign, its first decan (0-10 
degrees) is ruled by Venus. Its second decan (10-20 degrees) is ruled by Saturn, lord 
of the succeeding air sign Aquarius. Its third decan (20-30 degrees) is ruled by Mer- 
cury, lord of the succeeding air sign Gemini. And so on for other signs. 


Please note the above definition of decan, which is different from the following 
definition of face based on an alternate scheme of three-fold sign division. I'll use 
both terminologies in subsequent chart analysis, but they will refer to two distinct 
schemes. 


In the second system, Mars is assigned to the first third, ie, face, of Aries, and there- 
after the face lords follow a fixed series throughout the 36 faces, ending again with 
Mars ruling the third portion of Pisces. This series of planetary lords is based on 
planetary motion: Mars, Sun, Venus, Mercury, Moon, Saturn, Jupiter... This is also 
known as the “Chaldean order” as per its origins in Babylonian astrology. 


Throughout this text, I've chosen to refer to this Chaldean scheme of division as 
faces while the simpler scheme of element lordships are the decans. To appreciate 
the differences, please refer to Appendix 1, , where the two 
schemes are presented side by side. 


If Jupiter is in 25 degrees Taurus, it falls in the face of Saturn, who is thus consid- 
ered to receive it. If Saturn is in 25 degrees Libra, it falls in the face of Jupiter, who 
thus receives it. 


By comparison and contrast, if we observed the scheme of decans, Jupiter at 25 
Taurus would still be in a decan of Saturn, whereas Saturn at 25 Libra would be ina 
decan of Mercury. 


Reception by decan or face can be one-sided or reciprocal, with all planets poten- 
tially participating. 


Hierarchy of reception 


In ancient and modern astrological literature, there’s a general consensus on the 
hierarchy of receptions in a chart. For example: 


Abu Ma’shar, in The Abbreviation of the Introduction to Astrology, says with respect 
to reception, “The strongest of these is the lord of the house or of the exaltation. 
[Receptions involving] the lord of the term or triplicity or decan [face] are weak un- 
less two or more of them are joined.” 


Abraham Ibn Ezra, in his The Beginning of Wisdom, says, “Reception is ... witha 
planet which is the master of its house, the master of the house of its honor, the 
master of the house of its triplicity, its limit [term], or its face... The reception of the 
house is moderate. The reception of the triplicity, or of the limit [term], or of the 
face, is weak.” 


William Lilly, in his Christian Astrology, says, “...here is reception of these two plan- 
ets by houses [signs]; and certainly this is the strongest and best of all receptions. It 
may be by triplicity, term or face, or any essential dignity.” Lilly neglected to men- 
tion reception by exaltation in this passage, but elsewhere made clear that it ranked 
right behind reception by sign. 


(NB: for the appropriate citations — chapter and verse — of these three quotations 
above, | refer the reader to the Bibliography and two key articles by Deborah Hould- 
ing, “A Brief Comparison of the Use of Reception in History” and “Lilly’s Use of 
Reception in Horary.” Houlding’s scholarship, clear writing style and even-handed 
approach to potentially contentious issues makes reading her both a pleasure and an 
education.) 


In summary, then, the relative ranking of receptions is as follows: 
* Major forms: sign and exaltation 
* Minor forms: triplicity, term, and face or decan 


Various authors further qualify this ranking by saying, as Lilly did, that reception 
by sign is strongest. Many also say that the minor forms are insufficient to produce 
effects on their own, requiring combinations among them (eg, reception by triplic- 
ity and term, triplicity and face, or term and face) in order to be operative. 


In his article “Dignities and Debilities as Collected from a Variety of Sources”, 
Robert Hand summarized the opinions of several classical authorities by assigning a 
relative weighting for these essential dignities: domicile 5, exaltation 4, triplicity 3, 
term 2, and face 1. 


Mutual reception vs mixed reception 


In contemporary astrological literature, chart analyses within the context of tradi- 
tional astrology frequently refer to situations where planets are said to be in mutual 
reception. Often, the authors are using the term in its broadest sense, ie, Planet 

A receives Planet B by some means, and Planet B receives Planet A by the same or 
different means; therefore, they are mutually receptive. 


For example, say Moon is in Pisces and Jupiter is in Taurus. Moon in Pisces is re- 
ceived by Jupiter because it occupies Jupiter’s sign. Jupiter in Taurus is received by 
the Moon because it occupies the Moon's exaltation sign. Since the two receive each 
other, some would call this mutual reception. Technically, this is correct. 


Other authors, recognizing that this particular reception arises from two distinct 
dignities (domicile and exaltation), will also refer to this as “mixed reception.” 


Mixed reception would thus include other combinations of reception — by domicile 
and triplicity, by exaltation and term, and so on with all possible pairing of the five 
dignities. 

However, it bears repeating that the subject of this book is mutual reception by sign, 
and although the term “mutual reception” can be broadly defined, my use of it here 
is narrowly applied. \n other words, when | talk of mutual reception, | am referring 
exclusively to the most powerful of these — mutual reception by sign. 


This doesn’t mean | see no value in other forms of reception. I’m simply narrowing 
the focus of discussion so that we can ultimately create a link between two distinct 
houses in order to facilitate an interpretation. 


Mutual reception: with or without aspect? 


Although reception is considered by most classical authorities as being necessary to 
facilitate an aspect between two planets, the notion of codependence also seems to 
have sprung up in tandem. In other words, some say that reception itself isn’t really 
effective unless there’s a traditional aspect between them, ie, a sextile, square, trine 
or opposition. 


Here’s an analogy for this no-reception-without-aspect rule: Imagine someone runs 
afoul of the law, but is married to someone whose sibling is a good lawyer. Thus, 
the accused by virtue of marriage gains a dignity (status as an in-law) whereby the 
lawyer will extend him counsel. But if there’s no communication (aspect) between 
them, the lawyer’s best intentions will amount to nothing because he’s in no posi- 
tion to counsel the accused, or the accused isn’t in a mood to listen. 


Let’s refer again to Deborah Houlding’s article “A Brief Comparison of the Use of 
Reception in History” in which she summarizes in her own words the positions of 
four classical authorities: 


* Abu Ma’shar [in Houlding’s words]: “Reception occurs when two planets 
are applying to aspect and one of them is in a position where the other 
has dignity by sign or exaltation. It can also occur with the lesser dig- 
nities but it is a weak reception unless two or more of the dignities are 
involved. A milder form of reception exists where the two planets are 
in aspect according to their signs but the planets are not in the state of 
application.” [ie, an applying aspect within orbs] 


* Al-Biruni [in her words]: “Reception occurs when a planet arrives in the 
dignities of another. The need for aspectual contact is implicit in the 
phrase ‘and makes known to it the relation thus established’. Mutual 
reception occurs if the other planet is also in the first planet's dignities. 
The greater the dignities, the greater the strength of the reception, 
especially where the aspects are friendly. Lack of reception hinders 
perfection.” 


* Abraham Ibn Ezra [in her words]: “Reception occurs when a planet 
applies to an aspect with a planet that rules the sign or any of the es- 
sential dignities in which it is located, or when the applying planet is in 
its own house or exaltation, or in two of its minor dignities, or one of its 
minor dignities where a trine or sextile aspect is involved or an antiscia 


relationship.” 


* Bonatus [in her words]: “When a planet is in aspect with the ruler of the 
sign or exaltation, or of two of the minor dignities of term, triplicity, or 
face, the ruler of the dignity commits its own disposition and virtue to 
it, even if they are normally destructive to each other. If it aspects the 
ruler of only one of the minor dignities, it is not received, because these 
dignities are not strong enough to make reception without additional 
support. ” 


Even among the classical authorities, however, there were distinctions. Again, from 
Houlding’s article above, she cites Abraham Ibn Ezra on the subject of reception 
without aspect between the two participant planets. Although the translation 
offered here refers to “liberality”, Robert Hand uses the term “generosity” to cover 
this form of reception. 


* Abraham Ibn Ezra [in his own words]: “Liberality means that each of 
two planets is in the house of its companion, or in the house of its hon- 
our, or in any of its influences, and, even though they do not enter into 
conjunction or aspect with each other, still there will be reception be- 
tween them.” 


Houlding immediately follows with her interpretation: “If planets are mutually 
placed in any of each other's dignities, they offer reception to each other even if 
there is no aspect between them.” [my italics] 


And in her separate article “Lilly’s Use of Reception in Horary”, Houlding moves 
forward several centuries to give us the words of William Lilly, whose knowledge of 
astrology was built upon the classical authorities, and applied in a thriving practice. 


* William Lilly [in his own words]: “Reception is when two planets that 
are significators in any question or matter are in each other's dignity; 
as Sun in Aries, and Mars in Leo; here is reception of these two planets 
by houses; and certainly this is the strongest and best of all receptions. 
[...} The use of this is much; for many times when as the effecting of 
a matter is denied by the aspects, or when the significators have no 
aspect to each other, or when it seems very doubtful what is promised 
by square or opposition of the significators, yet if mutual reception 
happen betwixt the principal significators, the thing is brought to pass 


mw 


If we're left with any doubt as to whether mutual reception is effective on its own or 
not, Houlding summarizes her understanding as follows: 


“Hence the current debate about whether reception has significance 
where the two planets are not connected by aspect appears to be an- 
swered. Reception requires an aspect, but where there is no aspect the 
same benefits may be expected, providing the reception is mutual, as 
Lilly has intimated in his introductory definition.” [my italics] 


To recap all of the above, there’s a strong case to be made that mutual reception is 

effective, no matter whether the participating planets are in aspect or not, in facili- 
tating the matters of their mutual significations. However, the presence of an aspect 
between the two may be a bonus to ensure results. In other words, mutual reception 


works (the bolt engages with the nut), while aspects are merely the oil that makes 
the two engage even more readily. 


Mutual reception in Jyotish 


Meanwhile, in Jyotish mutual reception is regarded as one of the most powerful 
planetary combinations, having the ability through reciprocal dispositorship to link 
the significations of the two houses concerned. It is so powerful in and of itself that, 
unlike many other yogas (planetary combinations) in Jyotish, it requires no aspect 
between the planets to make it effective. 


As an aside, there’s a debate among astrological scholars as to whether Jyotish 
predates Hellenistic astrology, or was a derivative. Some dislike the term “Vedic 
astrology” because it implies origins within the Vedas, the ancient classics of India, 
which evolved independent of Hellenistic culture. 


Rather than engage in that debate, I'll simply refer to this system of astrology 

(Indian/Hindu/ Vedic) by its Sanskrit name — Jyotish — the science of light, so-called 

because of the light of planets seen against the backdrop of the constellations, 
whose practitioner is known as a jyotishi. 


In Jyotish, the mutual reception of two planets via reciprocal dispositorship is 
known as Parivartana Yoga. Albeit a major one, Parivartana Yoga is only one among 
hundreds of yogas in Jyotish. In an astrological context, a “yoga” is simply some 
combination, typically but not exclusively formed by two planets. 


Although Jyotish demands planetary association or mutual aspect as the “bond” 
that creates many of these yogas, in the case of Parivartana Yoga, no aspect is re- 
quired. For Parivartana Yoga, the mutual dispositorship of two planets is itself the 
bond between them, the source of the power to unite two houses, and needs no 
other reinforcement. 


Thus, in Jyotish, planetary pairs are free to engage in mutual reception by sign 
across the entire span of the zodiac, recognizing no black holes or dead zones. 
Those readers interested to know more about Parivartana Yoga in Jyotish are en- 
couraged to read ji 


Chapter 2 


Mutual reception: a fresh perspective 


The significance of mutual reception 


When mutual reception appears in a horary chart, we know traditional astrologers 
can generally make sense of the configuration. (Note: as pointed out earlier, my use 
of “mutual reception” here refers only to mutual reception by sign, the strongest of 
five receptions.) 


For example, given mutual reception between the significator of the querent and 
that of the seventh house, the horary astrologer will typically confirm some liaison, 
ie, a partnership or marriage. If mutual reception exists between the significator of 
siblings and the tenth house, the astrologer will predict the success of the querent’s 
brother in gaining some public office or achieving social status. 


But switch from horary to natal astrology, and many astrologers seem to com- 
pletely forget this house-themed avenue of interpretation, failing to connect the 
dots via logic that was fairly explicit in horary. 


When mutual reception occurs in a natal chart, we often encounter an interpreta- 
tion along these lines: the two planets act as if conjoined. For example, if Mercury 
is in Aquarius and Saturn is in Gemini (mutual reception), they're interpreted as if 
they were symbolically merged. Thus, the native is deeply studious, mathematical, 
a weighty thinker, a realist or a pessimist, an historian or antiquarian, a philosopher 
or scientific researcher. 


Too often, astrologers (other than traditionalists) interpret mutual reception as if 

it were some elemental mind-meld between the generic significations of the two 
planets. That notion may not be entirely wrong, but it is certainly far too simple. 
Mutual reception ultimately connects the significations of the two houses owned 
and occupied, not just the two planets that make it happen. The planets are only the 
agents that work out an agreement between the houses that govern specific aspects 
of life. 


Context is everything. Planets are significators of generic things, but that is the 
least of their attributes. As every traditional astrologer knows, planets are vital 
significators of specific things in a chart - eg, the querent, the mother, the spouse, 
money, death, fame, etc. And these are discerned by the occupation and rulership of 
specific houses by those same planets. 


Generically speaking, Saturn may represent old people and death for us all, but in 
individual charts, Saturn may be the significator for the Self, the spouse, a child, a 
vehicle, access to borrowed capital, hospitalization, distant travel, etc. 


For example, consider a natal chart with Scorpio ascendant where the same mutual 
reception mentioned above, ie, Mercury in Aquarius and Saturn in Gemini, occurs in 
the 4th and 8th houses. These two houses now become the focal point for interpret- 
ing that mutual reception. Although we might still employ some generic planetary 
significations, the greater specificity lies in considering the reciprocal relationship 
of house lords. 


Thus we get the idea that the mother will suffer accident, surgery and/or trauma. 


Vehicles or property will demand repair or renovation, or incur loss through dam- 
age or theft. Domesticity will be disrupted, or morals corrupted. And so on. 


Reception analogy #1: planets as tourists 


In reviewing the literature on reception, I’ve noted the recurrence of a phrase that 
seems intended to define the nature of the relationship: When Planet A receives 
Planet B, it extends courtesy, favor, hospitality, etc, like a host receiving a guest. In 
other words, because it receives Planet B, Planet A is seemingly obliged to make life 
better for Planet B. 


Recall that, although five different forms of reception (sign, exaltation, triplicity, 
term and face) are discussed in traditional astrology, the simplest and most power- 
ful is by sign. So if the Sun occupies Aries, we say that Mars receives the Sun. And 
let's assume that (a) an appropriate aspect connects them, or (b) the lack of an as- 
pect is no impediment anyway, as discussed earlier. 


Traditional astrology says that Mars, since it receives the Sun, is in some way dis- 
posed to honor it, to feather its bed, to facilitate the fruition of its desires, to make 
the Sun happy. 


If Mars occupies Leo, then the Sun receives Mars and is obliged to assist Mars in the 
realization of its ambitions. The specific interests of Mars are defined by the house 
it occupies and the two houses it rules in any given horoscope. Its broader interests 
are identified via the general significations we attach to Mars the planet, not the 
house lord or occupant. 


In this example, we have a mutual reception wherein the Sun receives Mars (because 
it’s in Leo) and Mars receives the Sun (because it’s in Aries). In effect, traditional 
astrology says that the Sun now serves the interests of Mars, while Mars serves the 
interests of the Sun. 


In this analogy, the host receives the guest in his domicile, and thereby extends him 
the courtesy of room and board and entertainment, or whatever else is within his 
inclination or power to provide. In mutual reception, this relationship is reciprocal, 
with each simultaneously acting as host to and guest of the other. 


This is akin to a real-world situation like house swapping, wherein a New Yorker ex- 
changes house keys with a Londoner for a month, so that each may enjoy an away- 
from-home vacation in a foreign city while living in a comparable residence without 
the expense of hotel accommodation. 


Take a snapshot of that situation, with the New Yorker in London, and the Londoner 
in New York, and that’s a mutual reception. Clearly, each person is extending to the 
other some hospitality in their residence while at the same time enjoying an equal 
hospitality in a place not their own. 


Reception analogy #2: planets as diplomats 


Now, rather than consider Planets A and B as two vacationers, let’s assign them a 

worldly purpose. Imagine they are ambassadors to each other’s country. Diplomat A 
is sent to Country B because Country A wishes to develop a relationship with Coun- 
try B. The ambassador thus cultivates contact with the rulers and administrators of 


the host country. 


As is typical when diplomatic relations are reciprocal, Country B also appoints an 
ambassador to Country A to promote the national interest, often in the form of mu- 
tually beneficial agreements and treaties. Clearly, this too is mutual reception, but 
with a difference. 


As opposed to vacationers, diplomats have a job to do. They’re not just visiting to 
be housed, fed and entertained. They’re promoting the interests of their home- 
land. When diplomatic relations are good, this benefits both countries. In real life, 
however, the benefits aren’t always equal. One may profit more than the other, the 
disparity reflecting each country’s power and wealth, or the skills of their respective 
ambassadors. 


But if diplomacy is effective, there'll inevitably be a symbiotic relationship wherein 
the two countries both do well under the arrangement, or at least better than on 
their own. In the realm of international diplomacy, for example, the Anglo-Ameri- 
can alliance is perhaps the most robust in the world, having been cemented by two 
world wars, trade agreements and other ongoing cooperative efforts, eg, the ex- 
change of culture, and the war against terrorism. 


Elsewhere in the world, some diplomatic relationships make for strange bedfellows, 
eg, China and North Korea, or Russia and Syria. Here, the major nuclear power has a 
relationship with the rogue state analogous to that of a puppeteer with his puppet, 
using it to his advantage like a piece on a chessboard, while the puppet enjoys the 
protection of his master. 


The inequity of nations on the world stage has an analogy with astrology. Some 
countries possess natural resources, enviable climate, valued culture, wealth, po- 
litical power, military might or intellectual capital. Others may be cesspools of 
poverty, illness, violence and corruption. Obviously, a reciprocal relationship be- 
tween very disparate countries makes for mixed reviews in terms of ultimate overall 
effect. 


For mutual reception in a horoscope, similar inequities are common. Although we 
must make distinctions with respect to the luminaries versus the true planets, in 
general all planets are either in a state of dignity or debility, sometimes both, or 
just plain ordinary. For example, participant planets may be exalted, debilitated, 
retrograde, combust, etc. 


Therefore, not all mutual receptions are equal. Never mind that the respective plan- 
ets may own good or bad houses. The planets themselves are different, not so much 
by virtue of their essential natures, eg, Mars versus Saturn, but by virtue of their 
dignities or lack thereof. In any relationship (by association or aspect), a strong 
planet will bring more to the table than a weak planet. As in foreign relations, so in 
astrology. 


International diplomacy creates a bond between countries. Each has its own agenda 
but somewhere there is common ground, and that's where they hammer out an 
agreement. But however much they talk, diplomats are still just representatives of 
their respective countries, and that is the real source of their temporal power. At 
the end of the day, the diplomatic agreement they fashion represents a cooperation 
of national interests, not a merger of the personalities of the two diplomats at the 


table. 


The symbiosis of planets, signs and houses 


When mutual reception by sign occurs in a horoscope, we have at one and the same 
time a remarkable symbiosis between two planets, two signs and two houses. There 
is literally nothing quite like it anywhere else in the scheme of astrology. 


The planets are the active players. The signs are their respective stomping grounds 
wherein their essential dignities (strengths and weaknesses) are cast. The houses 
are their respective fields of play (or battlegrounds) where they manifest their re- 
sults by department of life. 


Working within traditional rulerships, where the seven visible planets rule the 12 
signs of the zodiac, mutual reception by sign can occur via 57 different combina- 
tions. 


When we consider, however, that planets are not only lords of signs but houses as 
well, we can effectively translate mutual reception from a theoretical footing to one 
that is eminently practical. When mutual reception occurs between two planets by 
virtue of their reciprocal dispositorship, this also enables a symbiotic relationship 
between two house lords. And therein lies the basis for meaningful interpretation. 


Within the realm of the horoscope, 66 different combinations of house lord inter- 
action are possible via mutual reception, although only 57 can be realized for any 
given ascendant. 


For readers interested to know more about the mathematics of mutual reception, 
see the discussion in 


Although mutual reception is not entirely an equal-opportunity game, all planets 
are capable of it, and no pair is excluded from forming its own unique relationship. 
In a horoscope, malefics Mars and Saturn have just as much potential to develop a 
relationship as benefics Moon and Venus. It's not about the essential nature of the 
planets or whether they're natural friends or enemies, but rather the mutual recep- 
tion between them that facilitates the relationship. 


Since mutual reception hinges on the reciprocal disposition between planets, the 
two houses they occupy and own become the focus of that symbiosis. Signs are 
simply filters modulating the “states of being” or power of the respective planets. 
The houses are the “departments of life” illuminated in the spotlight of those same 
planets. 


Because houses can be both “good” and “bad”, the results for the native of the chart 
can be positive, negative or mixed for the respective departments of life. Students 
of horary astrology should not be lulled into thinking mutual reception is invariably 
an “escape” from some dilemma. 


In the context of horary, the querent’s intent is almost always to solicit the progno- 
sis for some desired outcome, eg, When will | get a promotion? Or When will Guido 
marry me? Nobody enquires after negative outcomes, eg, When will | lose all of my 
money at the casino? 


But in the context of natal astrology, good/bad/mixed outcomes are all possible in 
the lives of clients. Mutual reception often brings happy resolution, but it can also 


bring unwelcome problems. Astrology has teeth, and it can bite. 


The role of the houses 


Most astrologers have a good command of the generic meanings of signs, planets 
and houses. But many rely too much on signs and too little on houses, which is re- 
ally where the rubber meets the road. 


“Astrology is a language,” Dane Rudhyar said. “Jf you understand this language, the 
sky speaks to you.” But as any student of Romance language knows, your ability to 
learn French, Italian or Spanish is greatly enhanced if you also know Latin, by which 
means you can more readily cross from one to the other. 


So it is with astrology. The greater our vocabulary regarding signs, planets and 
houses, the greater our ability to make meaningful and specific associations, no 
matter whether we’re interpreting a natal, horary or mundane chart. 


Although readers will find much in this section that's familiar, they may also dis- 
cover new concepts. For instance, despite a formal education in western astrology, 
until | studied Jyotish | don’t believe | ever saw the second house associated with 
speech, nor the fourth house with education, the sixth with litigation, or the twelfth 
with sex, etc. 


Following is a representative (albeit partial) list of things associated with the 12 
houses of the birth chart: 


1. The Self: body, complexion, head; appearance, behavior, constitution, health, 
nature of a person, strength or weakness of the body and personality; birth, 
birthplace, infancy, youth, life, longevity; dignity, fame, happiness or sor- 
row, honor, prestige, victory over enemies, virtue. 


2. Face and throat, mouth, teeth, tongue, right eye; (extended) family members; 
diet, drinks, eating, food; ability to speak and see, accumulation of knowl- 
edge and learning, oral traditions, power and quality of speech; accumu- 
lated money, clothing, jewels, liquid assets, movable possessions, precious 
metals, wealth; death. 


3. Arms, hands, shoulders, neck, ears; siblings (especially younger), neighbors, 
servants; communications (especially routine), hearing, writing, the arts, 
the trades; great prowess (physical or mental), partition or sale of property, 
short travels, traveling, valor; parents’ death. 


4. Chest, heart, breasts; mother; conveyances (vehicles), agriculture, architec- 
ture, houses, immovable property, land and water dwellings; education, 
morals, emotions, happiness, private life. 


5. Belly (tower abdomen and the organs therein, including the stomach and 
liver); children; advice and counsel, discernment and discrimination; disci- 
ples and students, the mind, creative intelligence. 


6. Middle abdomen (and the organs therein, including small intestines); mater- 
nal aunts or uncles, employees, staff, open enemies; accidents and injuries, 
anxieties, acute disease, pain, wounds; combat, debt, health care, lawsuits, 
service (especially routine), theft. 


7. Lower abdomen (and the organs therein), kidneys; significant others, spouse, 


partners in business; adultery, courtship, extramarital connections, enjoy- 
ment of men or women, sexual desires; journeys, foreign places, trade and 
commerce, death. 


8. External sexual organs, excretory organs (including colon); accidents, chronic 
disease, death, longevity, poison; bankruptcy, inheritance, partner’s money; 
litigation, mystery, occult, plots, psychotherapy, research, scandal, theft, 
transformation, trauma. 


9. Thighs and hips; father, grandchildren, guru, counselors and teachers; afflu- 
ence, good fortune, devotion to divine beings, dharma, pursuit of transcen- 
dental wisdom, foreign travel, higher studies, pilgrimage, previous good 
karmas. 


10. Knees, legs, spine; mother-in-law, authority figures, boss, government, man- 
agement; business, commerce, fame, honors, profession, public life, social 
status; karma. 


11. Calves, shins and ankles; elder sibling, child’s spouse; desires, easy money, 
gains of every kind, income from career, social life, things received (like 
gifts), wealth, wishes. 


12. Feet, affliction of the limbs; secret enemies; charity, comforts of the bed (eg, 
sleep and sex); expenses, investment, loss of any kind; foreign residency, im- 
migration, wandering far from home; convalescence, confinement, endings, 
hidden things, imprisonment; moksha. 


Take note of this section. If you’re not already thoroughly familiar with the attrib- 
uted meanings for each house, be prepared to return to this list in order to make 
sense of the house lord combinations delineated in Part 2 of this book. 


The use of derivative houses 


Once we have an expanded vocabulary regarding house meanings, it becomes 
possible via derivative house analysis to discuss things in the chart that might never 
have become apparent. Derivative house analysis is when (a) we rotate a primary 
chart in our mind’s eye to the house representing a secondary person, and then 

(b) interpret the position of planets in relative houses from the perspective of that 
person. 


To understand what happens once you shift attention from the ascendant to any 
other house of the chart, it helps to think in terms of relative house positions, a kind 
of “platick” aspect. 


Oppositions identify significant others. If you count houses inclusively from the 
ascendant to the descendant, it’s seven there and seven back, what we call a 7/7 
relationship. 


Trines identify children or students, because they are five houses away from the 
ascendant, and father or mentors because they are nine houses away. If you count 
from one to the other in either direction, it's either five houses or nine removed, 
what we calla 5/9 relationship. Houses of the same element (fire, earth, air, water) 
are always in a 5/9 relationship. 


Squares identify mothers and property because they are four houses away, career 


and fame because they are 10 houses away. All squares are in a 4/10 relationship. 
Houses of the same mode (cardinal, fixed, mutable) are always in a 4/10 relation- 
ship. 

Sextiles identify younger siblings and neighbours three houses away, older siblings 
and team mates 11 houses away. We call this a 3/11 relationship, always connecting 
friendly elements, eg, air and fire, or water and earth. 


Quincunxes identify competition and illness six houses away, injury and trauma 
eight houses away. From the ascendant’s perspective, those two houses or planets 
with which it has a 6/8 relationship will bring trouble in the life. Usually, trouble 
you can see coming. 


Inconjunct positions occupy, from the ascendant’s perspective, the 2nd or 12th 
houses - like a blind spot just over either shoulder - from which quarter trouble 
sneaks up on you. The 2nd house identifies food and resources, the 12th is travel 
and “pleasures of the bed.” Houses or planets in a 2/12 relationship will often illu- 
minate one’s undoing. 


An example should make this clear. But before we apply the notion of relativity, we 
must first rotate the chart to the appropriate house for the subject at hand. 


Let’s say we have only a client's chart to work with, but the client wants to discuss 
their oldest child. Children in general, the first child in particular, are indicated by 
the 5th house. Therefore, we rotate the client's chart in our mind’s eye and treat the 
5th house as if it were the ascendant for that child. 


If we need to comment on that child’s diet or money management, see the 6th 
house, because it is 2nd from the 5th. To examine that child’s marital prospects, see 
the 11th house, because it is 7th from the 5th. For their career orientation, see the 
2nd house, because it is 10th from the Sth. 


Changing gears, let’s say the client wanted to discuss their second child. Brothers 
and sisters, especially those that follow chronologically, are found in the 3rd house. 
Since we've already established that the first child is in the 5th house, then the sec- 
ond child must be in the 7th house, because it is the 3rd house from the Sth. 


If we need to comment on that child’s intelligence, we should look in the 11th 
house, because it is 5th from the 7th. For their health, see the 12th house, because it 
is 6th from the 7th. For their irregular sleep patterns, see the 6th house, because it 
is 12th from the 7th. 


And so on, for every person you can think of, and every possible aspect of their 
life... 


Chapter 3 


Mutual reception: a scientific model 


Quantum astrology and theoretical sign exchange 


Don’t let the title of this chapter mislead you. | am not attempting to provide a 
causal model to prove that astrology works by any standard of scientific rationale. 
To quote Stuart Chase, “For those who believe, no proof is necessary. For those who 
don't believe, no proof is possible.” 


Rather, this brief excursion into the realm of scientific paradigms is only for the 
purpose of discussing one of the most contentious notions of mutual reception, ie, 
that planets in such a relationship can “exchange signs.” Although traditional as- 
trologers have been trying for years to stamp out this notion, which they consider to 
be erroneously associated with mutual reception, a review of the concept may well 
be in order. 


In reviewing the literature on mutual reception by sign, I've noted several writers 
stating categorically that planets in mutual reception do not exchange or swap their 
positions. We can debate this on more than one level, but let’s start with semantics. 


Webster's Dictionary defines “exchange” as the giving of one thing and receiving 
something of the same kind in return. If one planet receives the interest of another 
planet, with whom it reciprocates the same level of interest, is this not an exchange 
of mutual interest? 


Figuratively, when two planets are in mutual reception, ie, each occupying a sign of 
the other, they have the capacity in our mind’s eye to exchange positions and thus 
occupy their own domicile. Mutual reception in its most fundamental form does 
imply “exchange of signs.” 


In fact, the notion of “sign exchange” is not new to the astrological lexicon. Here's 
what Olivia Barclay in her book Horary Astrology Rediscovered said about it: 


“If you find, when examining a chart, any two planets are in each 
other's dignities, this is called mutual reception. The planets can then 
be read as if back in their own dignity. When this happens, they ex- 
change degrees - not actually, but as if it were by reflection — with the 
planet with whom they are exchanging places. If the mutual reception 
is by sign, between the major significators in question, it can give an 
affirmative answer, even without aspect — so long as there is no contra- 
dictory indication. Ptolemy called this technique ‘exchange of sign.’ It 
gives a way out, an escape.” [HAR, p.102] 


Barclay is here referencing Ptolemy's famous work, Tetrabiblos. However, as Hould- 
ing remarks in a footnote to her article “A Brief Comparison of the Use of Reception 
in History”, the Project Hindsight translation of Ptolemy has substituted the word 
‘alternation’ instead of exchange, thus casting into doubt Ptolemy's true intention. 


But in an age when astrologers still debate the meaning of some passages from 
William Lilly, whose original texts are available in English, can we ever be sure of 
Ptolemy's intended meaning? There is no original manuscript of Tetrabiblos extant. 
It was lost to Europe in the Sth century during a lengthy period of astrological per- 


secution, rescued by the Arabs and translated into Arabic, then re-translated into 
Greek and Latin in the 14th century. 


So Ptolemy may have intended, indeed preferred, the term “exchange” and we will 
never know for sure... 


Gedankenexperiment 


A true science evolves by constantly pulling itself up by its bootstraps, sometimes 
overthrowing previous “laws” held inviolable. For example, the advent of quantum 
physics very early in the 20th century knocked classical physics for a loop. The 
Heisenberg Uncertainty Principle said that, for atomic particles, the rules of New- 
tonian physics no longer applied. The more specifically you measured a particle’s 
position, the less certain you were of its momentum. Conversely, if you knew its mo- 
mentum, you were uncertain of its position. In other words, you couldn’t know both 
its exact position and momentum at the same time. 


Instead, the general behavior of an atomic particle was described by a mathemati- 
cal wave function, a product of its frequency and amplitude. At best this stated only 
a probability that a particle was in a given position with a given momentum. Even 
for a seasoned theoretical physicist like Einstein, this was a bit much, prompting his 
famous statement, “| don’t believe that God plays dice.” 


Because the early theoretical physicists couldn’t explain particle behavior in the 
context of known physics, they had to imagine scenarios that somehow made 
sense of things. These pioneering physicists of the day, among whom Einstein was 
a remarkable innovator, had an expression to describe thinking outside the box: 
Gedankenexperiment. 


A "thought experiment” is invoked so as to imagine the outcome, and examine the 
consequences, of an experiment that can’t actually be conducted due to physical, 
resource or societal limitations. One of the most famous of these is “Schrédinger’s 
cat” in which physicist Erwin Schrodinger hypothesized a cat that was both alive 
and dead (a state of entanglement) as a result of being linked to a random event 
that was not a certainty, only a probability. 


Not a certainty, only a probability. Doesn't that sound like astrology? 


As astrologers today, we face criticism and ridicule from the scientific community. 
They point out that we (in fact, most of us in the western hemisphere) use the trop- 
ical zodiac when instead it’s the sidereal zodiac that maps the star groups identified 
with the signs. They insist that there’s no causal mechanism to correlate the motion 
of distant planets with human behavior. They say astrology lacks scientific rigor and 
proofs. 


But as every practitioner knows, astrology is as much an art as it is a science. As my 

teacher's guru used to say, “To interpret a two-dimensional diagram in the context of 
a four-dimensional life is no small matter. It’s God’s work, and He guards it jealously. 
If astrology were easy, everyone would be doing it.” 


In that spirit, maybe we should be more open to conducting our own thought ex- 
periments. By exploring astrology’s theoretical constructs, we may also expand its 
potential rules of application. 


The valence model of sign exchange 


Perhaps we can use the model of atomic particles to explain mutual reception. To 
do so, let’s go back to Chemistry 101, where we learned that atoms comprise the 
building blocks of matter. Each atom is like a little planetary system, with a nucleus 
of protons orbited by a number of electrons. Imagine two planetary systems - one 
called Sodium, the other called Chlorine. 


Sodium has a nucleus of 11 protons in a Sun-like center, orbited by 11 electrons 
that act like planets. In our solar system each planet has its own orbit. In Sodium’s 
system there are two electrons in the first orbit. Further out is a second orbit, where 
eight electrons revolve around the nucleus. Still further out is a third orbit, occu- 
pied by a single electron. 


The higher the orbit, the more energy an electron has. The lone electron in 
Sodium’s third orbit would like to drop back into the second orbit, but it’s filled to 
capacity with eight electrons, so there’s no room. Therefore it remains alone in the 
third orbit. 


Meanwhile, in the Chlorine system, 17 protons form a Sun-like nucleus. Again, there 
are three levels of orbiting electrons —- two filling the first orbit, eight filling the sec- 
ond, and seven in the third. But because the third orbit could hold up to eight elec- 
trons, there's room for one more. 


Sodium Chlorine 
° 
° re) 
re) 
° ra) id ° °° 
Fei. 
°° (Na) © 0° ©0000 ( Cl) eee 
° ° ° re) 
re) 
© © ° 
° 


When Sodium and Chlorine encounter each other, the single electron in Sodium’s 
third orbit is able to migrate into Chlorine’s third orbit, thus completing its capacity. 
Since there’s no change in orbital level, there’s no release of energy when it hap- 
pens, nor any demand for energy in order to make it happen. Sodium and Chlorine 
combine readily to form a two-atom molecule called Sodium Chloride, also known 
as table salt. 


In effect, that lone electron in Sodium’s third orbit continues to exist there, but it 
also inhabits the gap in Chlorine’s third orbit. In other words, it’s in two places at 
the same time. Just like Schrédinger’s cat. 


But where’s the connection to mutual reception? 


In atomic and sub-atomic physics, all particles tend to return to stable orbits, 


otherwise known as their “ground state.” In astrology, we can think of the planets 
as having a bias to return to their own domiciles, because that’s where they belong, 
where they feel at home. 


In mutual reception, Planet A is in Sign B but wants to return to Sign A, while Planet 
B is in Sign A but wants to return to Sign B. Like two people on vacation who've 
swapped houses for a month, now they just want to go home. Like diplomats re- 
called from their foreign postings in times of crisis, they need to return home for 
political realignment. 


In this model of mutual reception, Planet A is not servicing Planet B, nor vice versa. 
They're both just trying to return to the comfort of their respective homes. And in 
mutual reception, they've found a willing participant to swap positions with them 
in order to fulfill that heart-felt desire. 


Although the actual horoscope depicts these two planets in places not their own, 
the powerful undercurrent (symbolic, psychological, karmic, etc) existing between 
them is such that they're both in the physical space of the sign/house occupied and 
in the hypothetical place of the sign/house ruled. And it's their reciprocal relation- 
ship alone that permits this oscillation between reality and virtuality. 


Traditionalists will certainly object: this isn’t mentioned in the literature. But until 
quantum mechanics was hypothesized by theoretical physicists in the early 20th 
century, the behavior of atomic particles couldn’t be explained by classical Newto- 
nian physics either. 


The exchange uncertainty principle 


In quantum physics, the Heisenberg Uncertainty Principle presents a paradox: you 
can't know everything at the same time. You can measure a particle's exact position 
but not its exact momentum, or measure its momentum but not its position. Not 
both at the same time. 


Thanks to the oscillatory nature of planetary exchange, mutual reception is equally 
dynamic. A birth chart presents the planets in their true astronomical positions. But 
in our mind’s eye we can also see them in their hypothetical positions — post-ex- 
change -— in their own signs. 


On a gross level, each planet could switch signs with no degree of particularity. But 
in practice there are two ways of imagining its post-exchange position. At this more 
subtle level, accounting for the planet's specific degrees, mutual reception may be 
even more complex than previously imagined. 


Planets in identical degrees 


The simplest case is when the two planets in exchange occupy the same degree 
position in their respective signs, eg, Saturn at 15 Aries, Mars at 15 Capricorn. Under 
exchange, Saturn moves from 15 Aries to 15 Capricorn, while Mars moves from 15 
Capricorn to 15 Aries. 


But if one of these exchange planets is combust, after exchange the other will be- 
come (virtually) combust. The only caveat is that different planets become combust 
at varying degrees of proximity to the Sun. 


But you get the general idea. If your house is on fire, and we exchange houses, I'll 
soon be on fire too — unless I’m wearing an asbestos suit. 


Planets in different degrees 


A more common dynamic emerges when the two planets occupy different degrees 
in their respective signs. The greater that difference, the more likely that, aside 
from sign occupation, the pre-exchange and post-exchange conditions could be dra- 
matically modified. 


Let’s say, Saturn is at 25 Aries, Mars at 15 Capricorn. Under exchange, does each 
swap degree positions with the other, or carry its degree with it? In other words, 
should a planet in exchange assume the footprint left by its counterpart, or create 
its own footprint in the other sign? 


Without trying to be evasive, we might say both. Whether we accept this answer or 
not is a measure of our ability to hold ambiguity in our minds, much as the pioneer- 
ing quantum physicists were obliged to do. 


Horary astrologers might already be familiar with this old debate, which was 
carried on between two luminaries of the horary art, one British, one Australian/ 
American. Olivia Barclay was a firm believer in the notion that planets in mutual 
reception by sign swapped degree positions. On the other hand, Ivy Goldstein-Ja- 
cobson asserted that planets in “sign exchange” should carry their own degrees into 
the other sign. 


If you think there's no distinction between these two options, let’s add just two ad- 
ditional planets to this hypothetical chart: the Sun at 25 Aries, and the North Node 
(Rahu) at 25 Capricorn. 


Ve 
NA nS Ww 
25 15 


Exchanging degree position 

Under degree exchange, Saturn would leave 25 Aries to assume Mars’ position at 15 
degrees Capricorn. Similarly, Mars would vacate 15 Capricorn to take Saturn's posi- 
tion at 25 Aries. 


In this example, Saturn at 25 Aries was totally combust and debilitated. But if it 
(virtually) moved from 25 Aries to 15 Capricorn, it would escape debilitation and 
combustion to end up in its own sign. 


Meanwhile, if Mars (virtually) went from 15 Capricorn to 25 Aries, it would forfeit 
exaltation and wind up combust in its own sign. 


Transferring degree position 


On the other hand, if each planet carried its own degree into the sign exchanged, it 
might escape the fate the other suffered. And yet, by transferring its own footprint, 
it might step onto a landmine that had lain undisturbed by the other planet. 


Under this second scenario, Saturn would go from 25 Aries to 25 Capricorn. It would 
escape debilitation and combustion but end up exactly on the nodal axis. Mean- 
while, if Mars went from 15 Capricorn to 15 Aries, it would forfeit exaltation in 
Capricorn but end up in its own sign without combustion. 


One might think this a needless complication, but mutual reception is already an 
exercise in imagining “what if?” these planets exchange signs. It’s not an astronom- 
ical reality. It's a hypothetical construct allowing us to see a new pattern based on 
planetary symbiosis. Like everything else in astrology, the consideration of such de- 
tails can lend nuance to our interpretations. 


Chapter 4 


Mutual reception: the elements of analysis 


Evaluating planets via dignities 


In astrology, we constantly encounter patterns to which we attribute meaning. 
These may be simple, such as a planetary pair in conjunction, sextile, square, trine 
or opposition. A more complex pattern such as a Grand Trine or T-Square requires 
three planets, while a Kite or Grand Cross requires four. And there are other pat- 
terns, sometimes involving all seven planets. 


Many practitioners are content to recognize a pattern, note the planets involved, 
and interpret based upon the sign and house positions occupied by the partici- 
pating planets. For the most part, this delivers a judgment as to the positive or 
negative outcome of the pattern. But to finesse the interpretation, we should also 
evaluate the individual strength or weakness of each planet in the pattern. 


An analogy may illustrate this. In hockey, each team has six players on the ice - 
three forwards, two defense players, and a goalie. Their requisite skills are skating, 
shooting the puck, checking other players, and stopping shots on goal. But even if 
your team has the fastest skaters in the world, if they can’t control the puck, they 
won't win any games. For best results, a player must have core strengths but mini- 
mal weaknesses. 


As laypersons, we might think the team’s lineup fulfills the game requirements. But 
if we were bookies, we'd turn a more critical eye on the roster, assessing who scored 
consistently, who'd suffered a recent injury, etc. As bookies, we'd use every criterion 
available to judge the winner of a match, because our livelihood depended upon it. 


All schools of astrology use a planetary hierarchy of dignities, a general term that 
encompasses both strengths and weaknesses of any planet. By using such a system, 
we can evaluate each planet in a pattern, and thereby judge the power of the pat- 
tern itself. 


Universal dignities 


The word “dignities” is an overarching term that essentially covers both the posi- 
tive and negative attributes of a thing. For instance, the famous Table of Essential 
Dignities attributed to Ptolemy and popularized by Lilly includes true dignities 
(strengths) such as domicile and exaltation, but also debilities (weaknesses) such as 
detriment and fall. 


Essential dignities are always based upon a planet's position within a sign or por- 

tion thereof. Accidental dignities are based upon other factors — astronomical (eg, 
combustion, retrogression), house position (eg, angularity), and relationships with 
other planets (eg, association/aspect with benefics/malefics, etc.) 


Different schools of astrology share many common principles, while occasionally 
finding themselves at variance with other schools. But as far as dignities go, follow- 
ing ts a list of those which are generally seen across the board: 


Dignity by virtue of sign placement 


* Rulership (domicile): a planet in one of its own signs is strong 
* Exaltation: a planet in its sign of exaltation is strong 
* Debilitation (fall): a planet in its sign of debilitation is weak 
Dignity by virtue of astronomical condition: 
* Combustion: a planet found in conjunction with the Sun is weak 
* New/full moon: the Moon is weak/strong when invisible/fully visible 


* Eclipse: the Moon is weak during a solar eclipse 


Dignities specific to western astrology 
In addition to those universal dignities listed above, western astrology (essentially a 
confluence of Arabic and Hellenistic schools) also acknowledges these other major 
dignities: 
Dignity by virtue of sign placement: 

* Detriment: a planet in one of the signs opposite that which it rules is weak 
Dignity by virtue of astronomical condition: 

* Retrograde: a planet in retrogression is weak 


* Cazimi: a planet located within an arc of 17 minutes (some say 30’) of the Sun is 
supposedly strong, but others disagree, saying this actually constitutes super- 
combustion, and therefore weakness! 


Note that there are other minor dignities as well, but for the sake of expediency, 
these are omitted from this discussion. 


Dignities specific to Jyotish 

As a separate school of practice, Jyotish has its own set of dignities too, called 
avasthas, or “states of being.” These include the “universal dignities” listed above, 
along with other dignities, some of which stand in direct contradiction to those of 
western astrology. 


Dignity by virtue of sign placement: 

* Detriment is not utilized 
Dignity by virtue of astronomical condition: 

* Retrograde: a planet in retrogression is strong 

* Planetary war: two (true) planets within a degree of each other are weak 
Dignity by virtue of house position: 

* Mercury and/or Jupiter in the 1st house have directional strength 

* Moon and/or Venus in the 4th house have directional strength 

* Saturn in the 7th house has directional strength 

* Sun and/or Mars in the 10th house have directional strength 


Similarly, there are other minor dignities in Jyotish, but these too are left out of this 
discussion. For a further discussion of these, the reader is referred to 


Retrograde planets 


Because retrogression is common, while the status of retrograde planets is so differ- 
ent between eastern and western systems, it merits a brief discussion. 


From the western perspective, the weakness of a retrograde planet is largely due to 
its disinclination to form an applying aspect. Although it’s considered a weakness 
in natal astrology too, its greater relevance is in horary astrology, where the appli- 
cation (vs separation) of two key planets is often pivotal in determining whether a 
thing will come to fruition. 


Take for example a Leo-rising horary chart in which the question is, Will | marry this 
person? The Sun as lord of the ascendant is the significator of the querent, whereas 
Saturn (traditional sign rulerships) is the lord of the 7th and the subject/object of 
marriage. Let's assume the Sun is in 15 degrees Aries and a retrograde Saturn is at 
12 degrees Libra. 


In such a case, although both Sun and Saturn are exalted and within a three-degree 
orb of an opposition, some horary astrologers might well judge, the marriage will 
not happen because Saturn is retrograde. With each passing day, the Sun (the quer- 
ent) will advance in degree, while Saturn (the marital prospect) will regress, widen- 
ing the orb between them until they no longer form an opposition. 


Granted, in this simple example, a retrograde Saturn may be weak to compel mar- 
riage. But naturally, there'll be other factors in the horary chart, such as the Moon, 
or planets in the 7th house. For instance, if the Moon were at 10 degrees of any air 
sign, Saturn’s retrogression would hasten the Moon’s applying aspect, thus improv- 
ing the outlook for partnership. 


The point is, a retrograde planet is not inherently problematic within a horary chart 
unless the specific context renders its retrogression a handicap. Moreover, in natal 
astrology, the differentiation between applying and separating aspects is arguably 
even less of an issue. So we might well ask ourselves, in natal charts, does it matter 
if a planet is retrograde? 


Although the title (published in 1977) is now a bit of a misnomer, Recent Advances 
in Natal Astrology: a critical review 1900-1976 has this to say about retrograde 
planets: 


* Reinhold Ebertin says a retrograde planet “used to be considered as un- 
favorable. But in fact there is no justification for ... (this) at all.” [RANA, 
p.436] 


*S. Kannan says, “Though the Western opinion is that retrogression is an 
affliction, the views of Hindu astrologers are quite diametrically oppo- 
site, as they consider this position as a very strong factor and beneficial 
too.” [RANA, p.436] 


* Geoffrey Dean says, “The preceding attributions (regarding retrogres- 
sion) vary from strong to weak and from good to bad. The conflict 
of opinion does not inspire confidence in any.” [RANA, p.437] “As it 
stands, the evidence in favor of retrograde effects is certainly not con- 
spicuous.” [RANA, p.441] 


If you're a jyotishi, retrogression is considered a strength, for the simplest of 
reasons. During retrograde periods, planets are closer to the Earth and therefore 
brighter than normal. And the brighter the planet appears, the greater its strength 
is deemed to be. 


Evaluating planetary combinations via dignities 


In the end, we're always free to choose which dignities to apply in our personal 
work. Bottom line, however, every astrologer should pay attention to planetary dig- 
nities and shade their interpretations — positive or negative — on the basis of plane- 
tary strengths and weaknesses. 


Let's consider only the example of a Moon/Mars opposition in a chart, and how its 
strength/weakness will change as we rotate this pair through the zodiac. 


Note here, I'll use only the principal dignities of sign placement, ie, rulership, exal- 
tation, debilitation and detriment. Any other sign placement will simply be dubbed 
ordinary. 


Moon in Aries, Mars in Libra (Moon ordinary, Mars in detriment) 
Moon in Taurus, Mars in Scorpio (Moon exalted, Mars in its own) 
Moon in Gemini, Mars in Sagittarius (Moon ordinary, Mars ordinary) 
Moon in Cancer, Mars in Capricorn (Moon in its own, Mars exalted) 
Moon in Leo, Mars in Aquarius (Moon ordinary, Mars ordinary) 
Moon in Virgo, Mars in Pisces (Moon ordinary, Mars ordinary) 

Moon in Libra, Mars in Aries (Moon ordinary, Mars in its own) 


ee Oe a eS 


Moon in Scorpio, Mars in Taurus (Moon debilitated, Mars in detriment) 
9. Moon in Sagittarius, Mars in Gemini (Moon ordinary, Mars ordinary) 

10. Moon in Capricorn, Mars in Cancer (Moon in detriment, Mars debilitated) 
11. Moon in Aquarius, Mars in Leo (Moon ordinary, Mars ordinary) 

12. Moon in Pisces, Mars in Virgo (Moon ordinary, Mars ordinary) 


Now if we review all of these Moon/Mars oppositions, we find there are no less than 
five combinations of planetary strength/weakness. 


Both planets strong: 
#2. Moon in Taurus, Mars in Scorpio 
#4. Moon in Cancer, Mars in Capricorn 
Both planets weak: 
#8. Moon in Scorpio, Mars in Taurus 
#10. Moon in Capricorn, Mars in Cancer 
One planet strong, the other ordinary: 
#7. Moon in Libra, Mars in Aries 
One planet ordinary, the other weak: 
#1. Moon in Aries, Mars in Libra 


Both planets ordinary: 


#3, 5, 6,9, 11, 12 
From this exercise we see that, even though a Moon/Mars opposition is a simple 
pattern, its qualitative nature is complex. Each planet carries its own symbolism. 
Each aspect has its own meaning. Combining these notions allows you to render an 
interpretation. But are all 12 Moon/Mars oppositions the same? 


As this example shows, the answer is no. All planetary patterns are not created 
equal. Out of the 12 variations above, two are very strong, two are very weak, one 
is moderately strong, one is moderately weak, and six are ordinary. If we fail to note 
these distinctions, we're missing a key element of analysis. 


Note that, by isolating the Moon/Mars opposition as if there was nothing else going 
on, this example is made as simple as possible. But if we included other conditions 
—a new or full moon, a combust or retrograde Mars — we’d have even more dignities 
to factor into our overall interpretation of that opposition. 


In practice, we apply this same level of analysis to every pair of planets in a mutual 
reception. 


Mutual reception’s psychological effect 


Mutual reception may be unique among planetary patterns in its capacity to “psy- 
chologize” its effects, as opposed to manifesting them only in a mundane way. In 
other words, it affords us an opportunity to understand the inner tension of the in- 
dividual (the “why”) in addition to the outer actions and circumstances (the “how”) 
that such a psychological state attracts into the person’s life. 


Keep in mind that this inner tension may or may not be resolved, depending on the 
planets involved and what their overall dignities suggest as an outlet or, alterna- 
tively, an impasse. More subtly, the person himself may not be consciously aware of 
or able to articulate this inner tension. Yet it will be the role of the astrologer, not 
only to identify “where it hurts” but also to recommend a viable resolution. 


When one of the pair is initially compromised by debilitation, combustion or 
eclipse, but subsequently “moves” to its own sign without any complications, that 
planet is potentially a source of improvement in the native’s life. Conversely, when 
a planet exchanges a neutral situation for a mixed one, ie, dignity coexistent with 
debility, as when Mars is combust in Aries, then we shouldn’t expect such a stellar 
outcome. 


Aside from its own dignity, a planet's participation in other pre-exchange patterns 
is further indication of its capacity to create the tension inherent in the mutual re- 
ception. By the same token, its hypothetical participation in a post-exchange aspect 
pattern is another measure of its potential to resolve that same tension. 


It's this symbolic oscillation between sign/house positions that creates a reciprocal 
tension between the participant planets of a mutual reception. Further, this tension 
will ultimately be resolved by the planet that enjoys the best of both worlds, as 
opposed to the planet that achieves own-sign security after exchange, but suffers in 
all other regards, pre- or post-exchange. 


Consider Mars in Capricorn and Saturn in Aries. Mars will oscillate between exalta- 
tion and its own sign, while Saturn oscillates between debilitation and its own sign. 


All else being equal, Mars will function as the more robust player, and swing the 
interpretation (effects and outcomes) of that mutual reception in the direction of its 
house occupation, rulership and natural significations. 


For example, an exchange between the 4th and 7th houses may invoke issues 
related to security and partnerships. Psychologically, this could be a person whose 
emotional happiness was compromised by an unstable relationship with the 
mother. Problems might then manifest in multiple ways. The person may form 
attachments to partners who are distant or always traveling. They may experience 
domestic problems when a prospective partner enters their personal space. Either 
situation echoes the issues of emotional security vis-a-vis a significant nurturing 
other. 


In another case, an exchange of 7th and 10th house lords may arouse issues related 
to career and partnerships. Psychologically, the person may have been conditioned 
to believe a supportive partner is critical to a successful career. This may play out as 
seeking status through relationships, accepting only suitors with income or power, 
meanwhile rejecting those with other desirable but less socially-valued qualities. 
Whether we project our ambitions onto our partners, or pursue our careers at the 
risk of our relationships, depends upon the overall dignities of the participant 
planets. 


Mutual reception acts like an irritating grain of sand beneath an oyster’s tender 
mantle. It is an agent provocateur, one of the samskaras or karmic residues of this 
particular birth. In order to integrate it, the oyster exudes an inner essence until the 
grain is completely enveloped. Only when this particle of grit has been transformed 
into a pearl is the oyster ready to offer its jewel to the world. 


The degree of irritation caused by the mutual reception is measured by the pre- 
exchange dignities of its participant planets. The potential quality of the pearl is 
measured by the post-exchange dignities. So long as no other grit is involved, in- 
tegration may be reasonably clean. The more grit that enters the picture, however, 
the greater is its potential to compound the irritation, and thus compromise the 
integration. 


In the first scenario, the individual performs psychological alchemy, resolves their 
inner tensions, and gives birth to their pearl. But in the second scenario, the person 
encounters more complications than he has “juice” to deal with, and is unable to re- 
solve the demands of his inner daemon. As a consequence, he may spend a lifetime 
in a revolving door of psychological impulses that manifest as problematic tensions 
in the areas of life suggested by the weaker of the two planets exchanged. 


Control planets 


Most mutual receptions have a “control planet”, ie, one with the capacity to resolve 
the inherent tension of the exchange, and to swing the resultant outcomes in its 
favor. 


Within every mutual reception, generally one planet is stronger than the other, no 
matter whether we view it as absolute or relative strength. Consider a street fight. 
I’m a normally fit man, but if | face off with a 30-year-old champion of any martial 
art, he‘ll beat me because he operates from a position of absolute strength. But if | 


pick a fight with an octogenarian, I'll probably win, because | operate from a posi- 
tion of relative strength, ie, I’m ordinary, but he’s relatively weaker. 


So, within any mutual reception, we can have multiple scenarios with planets that 
are strong, weak, mixed and ordinary. Determining the appropriate control planet is 
sometimes straightforward, sometimes complicated, sometimes impossible... 


Following is a pro forma to help you determine the control planet for any given pair 
in a mutual reception. Although context is everything, these factors are presented 
in descending order of importance. 


1. Compare the primary dignities of each planet: (+) rulership, exaltation, 
brightness, full moon, (-) debilitation, detriment, combustion, new/eclipsed 
moon. Remember that some planets can be of mixed condition, ie, both 
strong/weak, eg, a full Moon in Scorpio. 


2. Compare the minor dignities of each planet: triplicity, term, face, decan. Do 
they occupy their own territories, or are they in the domains of the other? 
Remember, the dispositor holds the power. 


3. Ifthe two planets are still tied for control, compare other factors: (a) whether 
one of them is associated with or aspected by the ascendant lord or the 
Moon, (b) whether one is well integrated with other planets or patterns, or 
(c) if one is elevated in the chart. 


On occasion, we'll encounter situations where neither planet enjoys a decisive qual- 
ity to make it the control planet. In such cases, where nothing exists to break the 
apparent tie, the exchange pair will operate as coequals within the context of that 
mutual reception. 


The gestait of mutual reception 


Given the various examples presented earlier, we see that planets can exist in 

different states — positive, negative or neutral — before and after their exchange. The 
system of dignities provides the primary lens through which we can view the partic- 
ipating planets, and thereby judge with discretion the gestalt of the exchange itself. 


In the large, however, we should analyze every mutual reception with four consider- 
ations in mind: 


1. the houses occupied by the participant planets, since these will indicate the 
primary themes invoked by the mutual reception, 


2. the dignities of the participant planets, before and after exchange, whose 
evaluation will identify the planet most likely to resolve the tensions cre- 
ated by the mutual reception, 


3. the respective degree positions of the participant planets, whose “range of 
influence” will determine their potential to interact intimately with other 
planets and patterns in the chart, and 


4. the presence of other planets or patterns interacting with the exchange plan- 
ets, whose condition will determine the nature and magnitude of influence 
on the outcome of the mutual reception. 


These guidelines will hopefully provide the reader some indication of how to inter- 
pret mutual receptions. As in much of astrology, the perennial challenge is to add 
nuance and detail to a basic premise. Ultimately, this rests upon our ability to view 
the situation from different perspectives until, like a hologram, the light of our per- 
ception produces a faithful image of reality. 


Chapter 5 


Mutual reception: recommended chart formats 


These case study charts may appear different from what readers are used to seeing 
in other astrological texts. My goal was to present them in a simple format, so as 
to facilitate the recognition of mutual receptions without the confusion of unequal 
houses, intercepted signs, etc. 


Although we like to think that more detail provides more information, in astrology 
the converse is often true: the more detail, the more confusion. One only has to 
look at a modern chart with the 10 known planets in our solar system, the five 
major asteroids, the nodes and vertex and Arabic parts, etc, all connected via major 
and minor aspect lines, and you have a tangled ball of twine that's very difficult to 
unravel. 


On the other hand, a stripped-down version allows the neophyte to see the forest 
through the trees, or the expert to immediately zero in on the things that really 
matter. As consequence, the charts here feature: 


* The visible planets and lunar nodes 
* The sidereal zodiac 
* The whole-sign house system 


* No aspect lines 


The visible planets 


Charts are presented with only the seven visible planets and the lunar nodes. The 
trans-Saturnian planets - Uranus, Neptune and Pluto —- don’t appear, nor do any 
asteroids. 


The outer planets were unknown in times of antiquity and therefore couldn't be 
used. Even in modern times, despite science’s awareness of their existence, whole 
schools of astrologers — Hellenistic astrologers, jyotishi, and traditional astrologers 
— often choose to ignore them. 


The classical planetary rulerships, wherein the seven visible planets rule the 12 
signs of the zodiac, had a beautiful symmetry. But it was corrupted the day that 
18th-Century astrologers inserted the newly-discovered Uranus into the scheme, 
giving it rulership over Aquarius. This situation was further compromised by the in- 
clusion of Neptune and Pluto as assigned rulers of Pisces and Scorpio, respectively. 


Note, I'm not suggesting trans-Saturnians have no place in a birth chart. Their in- 
fluence in natal patterns and in transits is often both provocative and instructive. In 
other words, we can still use them as we see fit without necessarily assigning them 
rulership of any sign. 
In order to appreciate the symmetry of the traditional sign rulerships, let me quote 
wholesale from Light on Life by Hart deFouw & Robert Svoboda: 

In the beginning were Sun and Moon, the king and queen of heaven. Abso- 


lute monarchs of all they surveyed, they ruled from the constellations of 
Leo and Cancer respectively. 


When Mercury saw that these two owned everything, he decided to ask 
(since Mercury rules communication) for some land in the zodiac for him- 
self. The Sun, being naturally magnanimous, said, “All right, you may take 
possession of Virgo, the constellation that is next to mine.” 


Now Mercury is well known as a dual planet, a master of duplicity who 
speaks with a forked tongue. He found it so easy to get land from the Sun 
that he waited until night (Mercury rules both day and night) and then told 
Moon, the Queen of the Night, “O Queen, the Sun has given me a plot; are 
you going to be outdone?" 


Now, Sun is the soul, and Moon is the emotional mind. Mind is insecure, 
knowing that it has no independent light of its own, that it only reflects the 
soul. Since it is insecure, mind is always trying to aggrandize itself, and so it 
often tries to duplicate processes which are part of the life of the soul. This, 
for example, is the reason why the mind frequently tries to convince itself 
that it might live forever. 


So Moon replied to Mercury, “All right, you take Gemini, the plot next to 
mine.” In this way Mercury, the thinking mind, gained possession of Virgo 
and Gemini. 


Venus (desire) saw what Mercury (thinking mind) had done, and made the 
same request. Sun (who is very honest, and would not gift away the same 
space twice) said, “I've promised the space next to me to Mercury, but you 
may have the next space,” which was Libra. Venus then repeated his request 
to Moon, obtaining Taurus thereby. 

Seeing what Venus (desire) had done, Mars (action) did the same, obtaining 
Scorpio and Aries from Sun and Moon respectively. Requests from Jupiter 
(wisdom) gained him Sagittarius and Pisces, and finally even Saturn got the 
news — Saturn, who is slow to catch on, always the last to know. Saturn (re- 
nunciation) got what was left on both sides: Capricorn and Aquarius. 
Reproduced with permission. Lotus Press, a division of Lotus Brands, {nc., PO 
Box 325, Twin Lakes, WI 53181, USA, www.lotuspress.com ©2003 All Rights 
Reserved. 


The diagram shown below, with the Sun and Moon in their signs straddling the 
horizon, assigning each in turn their share of the sky to their children, illustrates the 
symmetry that is evident in the traditional rulership scheme. 


The lunar nodes 


Within western astrology the lunar nodes, to borrow a phrase from Winston 
Churchill, often constitute “a riddle, wrapped in a mystery, inside an enigma.” 


From an astronomical point of view, the lunar nodes are simply the diametrically- 
opposed points in the orbit of the Moon where it crosses the ecliptic from south to 
north (the north node) and from north to south (the south node.) Due to a slight 
wobble in the earth's rotational axis, these nodal points drift backwards in the zo- 
diac with a cycle of 18.6 years. 


For centuries, ancient astrologers tracked the nodal axis via its average (interpo- 
lated) motion, typically referred to as the “mean node.” Only since the advent of 
NASA's detailed computer calculations did astronomers coin the term “true node” 
in an attempt to say where the nodes would be, even when the Moon was not at that 
time crossing the ecliptic. 


Although “true node” seems to imply greater specificity, in reality it’s just a 
mathematical construct. In all of the charts presented here, the mean node is used. 
Differences between “true” and “mean” node can range up to a degree or two. User 
beware. 


In the literature of Western astrology, discussions of the north and south nodes 
often revolve around “incoming” and “outgoing” karma, where the north node is 
likened to Jupiter’s opportunities and the south node to Saturn’s obligations. 


Jyotish insists the entire chart is a karmic drama, and the nodes just another pair 

of villains operating from the shadows. Indeed, Rahu and Ketu (north and south 
node, respectively) are called chaya graha, ie, shadow planets, because they have no 
physical substance. Their presence is only observed when the Earth passes through 
the Moon's shadow (solar eclipse) or the Moon passes through the Earth's shadow 


(lunar eclipse). 


Generically for all charts, Rahu acts like Saturn, while Ketu acts like Mars. However, 
Rahu and Ketu also play specific roles within individual charts, acting as proxies for 
the planets which rule the signs they occupy. So if Rahu/Ketu are in Aries/Libra, 
they will act on behalf of Mars and Venus, respectively. If in Cancer/Capricorn, they 
will act on behalf of the Moon and Saturn. And so on. 


Since Rahu and Ketu own no signs, they can never be involved directly in any mu- 
tual reception. But they can and do influence other planets. Aside from their generic 
role as malefics, and their specific role as proxies for their dispositors, Rahu and 
Ketu also act on behalf of planets with which they are associated, or which aspect 
them. 


Particularly in the case of conjunctions, they act as amplifiers of the other planet. 
For example, picture a chart wherein Rahu is conjunct Mars in the ascendant. Irre- 
spective of what sign they occupy, Rahu will act on behalf of Mars, so it will seem as 
if the person has not one, but two, hot and aggressive planets in his ascendant. 


The sidereal zodiac 


These charts depict the ascendant and planetary positions in the sidereal zodiac, 
not the tropical zodiac common in much of western astrology. Although my expe- 
rience over 20 years of experimental comparison leads me to believe the sidereal 
zodiac renders better results, readers are free to apply these sign exchange inter- 
pretations to charts in the tropical zodiac. 


The tropical zodiac is based on the premise that at the spring equinox, the Sun 
enters the first degree of Aries, thus becoming a benchmark against which all other 
planetary positions are referenced. For example, if Saturn is diametrically opposed 
the Sun on that day, it must logically be in the first degree of Libra. And so on for 
other planets. 


From an astronomer’s point of view, however, that equinoctial Sun in the modern 
era would appear to be at roughly six degrees Pisces of the sidereal zodiac. Irre- 
spective of the seasons, the astronomer views the transiting planets against the 
fixed stars that form the constellations. Although the actual 12 star-patterns, ie, 
constellations, delineating the signs of the ancient zodiac vary in longitudinal span, 
all astrologers have adopted the convention of a 30-degree span for each sign. 


The sidereal zodiac is used mostly by practitioners of Jyotish, but there’ve been 
many modern proponents over the years, notably Cyril Fagan and Donald Bradley, 
who were strong advocates for its use. The best known of modern western sidere- 
alists is probably Kenneth Bowser, whose website (www.westernsiderealastrology. 
com) is a source of much information. 


For the record, the charts presented in this book have used the Lahiri ayanamsha, 
which is the correction for precession, valued at 22deg28 in 1900, 23deg51 in 2000 
(subtract these amounts from tropical zodiacal positions to arrive at sidereal). 
Among western siderealists, the Fagan-Bradley ayanamsha is often used (25deg22 
in 1900, 24deg45 in 2000). 


The whole sign house system 


All charts are presented in the format of whole sign houses. In other words, if the 
ascendant falls in Leo, the entire sign of Leo is considered to encompass the first 
house. Thereafter, Virgo defines the second house, Libra the third, etc. Thus, there is 
no situation where part of one sign falls in one house and the remainder of the sign 
in another. 


Because whole signs constitute the houses, all houses are equal. Thus, the distortion 
of houses common in unequal house systems at high latitudes is non-existent. 
Because of that, there are no intercepted signs, ie, where a whole sign might fall 
within the span of a house larger than 30 degrees, because such houses no longer 
exist. 


Whole sign houses are traditional within both Jyotish and Hellenistic astrology. 
Thanks to the growing popularity of these two systems, many modern astrologers 
are now experimenting with this format. 


Aspects and orbs 


For simplicity’s sake, all charts are shown without aspect lines. The reasons for this 
are three-fold: 


First, this is a book about mutual reception. The reader needs only see what sign 
and house the relevant planets occupy. Although aspects play a role in interpre- 
tation, mutual reception occurs irrespective of aspects. The debate about whether 
mutual reception is facilitated, hindered or denied by aspect or lack thereof has 
been discussed in Chapter 1. 


Second, there are two major systems of astrology, ie, Hellenistic astrology and 


Jyotish, which apply aspects on a sign-to-sign basis (platick aspect), and are readily 
discernible without the need for aspect lines. Even in classical or traditional astrol- 
ogy using Ptolemaic aspects, charts were typically presented without aspect lines. 


Third, even in modern western astrology, where charts are typically shown with as- 
pect lines, there are great variances in both the aspects used and the orbs allowed. 
Although all western astrologers use the Ptolemaic aspects (sextile, square, trine, 
opposition), many others also use the quincunx, semi-square, quintile and a host of 
other minor aspects. Add to that a variance (ie, liberality) in orbs, and the chart can 
quickly start to look like a spider’s web - where the spider was on acid. For the sake 
of clarity, I've kept these charts clean and simple. 


In my discussion of each chart, references to aspects are made under a general un- 
derstanding that each planet has an orb of influence, and so long as an aspect can 
be formed within the average range of the two respective planets, then the aspect is 
operative. 


For example, Al-Biruni, Bonatus and many other classical authorities use the follow- 
ing scheme of orbs: Sun 15 degrees, Moon 12, Mars 8, Mercury 7, Jupiter 9, Venus 7, 
and Saturn 9. 


Thus, so long as the Sun and Mars form an aspect whose common orb is 11.5 de- 
grees or less, the aspect is in effect. (15+8)/2=11.5. 

Similarly, so long as the Moon and Venus form an aspect whose common orb is 9.5 
degrees or less, the aspect is operative. (12+7)/2=9.5. 


Like many other elements of astrological practice, this is a personal choice. Readers 
are invited to apply their own orbs, and experiment. 


PART 2 
MUTUAL RECEPTION IN PRACTICE 


Overview 


Following are interpretations of the 66 combinations of mutual reception. These 
are based in part upon brief statements found in the classic Jyotish volume, Brihat 
Parashara Hora Shastra, specifically Chapter 26, Effects of the Bhava Lords. I've used 
this text, as opposed to anything from the western tradition, because Jyotish tends 
to accommodate a richer vocabulary of associated meanings for the houses. 


Each interpretation is prefaced by two pertinent quotations from BPHS: for exam- 
ple, (1) when the lord of the first house occupies the second house, and (2) when the 
lord of the second occupies the first. Whereas the first quote suggests one outcome, 
and the second another, I've extrapolated from both to develop a consistent but ex- 
panded interpretation of the joint combination. 


I’ve also referred to G.S. Agarwal’s Practical Vedic Astrology, whose succinct com- 
ments on Parivartana Yogas (the term for mutual reception in Jyotish) were literally 
one-liners. After that, | fleshed out expanded statements using other ideas from au- 
thors cited in the bibliography, comments made by teachers, and my own logic. 


Under each mutual reception, you'll find: 
*two quotes from BPHS re lords in reciprocal houses, 
* a descriptive interpretation of each mutual reception, 


* a list of famous people whose charts share the same pattern, 

* a biography of one famous person with that mutual reception, 
* the natal chart for that person, and 

* an analysis of that person's mutual reception. 


The birth data for all charts used is provided in the Index of Case Studies. My origi- 
nal source data was AstroDataBank (now hosted by Astrodienst), whose compilation 
was based upon work originated by Lois Rodden. In these examples I've included 
only charts whose birth data met the “AA” or “A” rating in the Rodden system: AA 
for accurate data as recorded by family or state, A for accurate data as quoted by the 
person, kin, friend or associate. 


Although I've tried to select the best examples, please note that, no individual 

life will perfectly epitomize the mutual reception in question. In other words, we 
shouldn’t expect a mutual reception to describe a whole life; in fact, it will only 
represent a facet of that life. There are many other astrological factors in play — 
including other astrological patterns formed by the same planetary pair. Hopefully, 
the examples offered will illustrate some of the key principles attributed to each 
mutual reception. 


Chapter 6 


Exchanges with the 1st house lord 


Exchange of 1st and 2nd lords 
Parashara says: 


* When the lord of the Ascendant has been placed in the 2nd house, the native will 
be gainful, learned, happy, good-natured, religious-minded, honorable, and will 
have many wives and good qualities. (Brihat Parashara Hora Shastra, Chapter 
26: Sloka 2) 


* When the 2nd lord has gone in the Ascendant, the native will be endowed with 
sons and wealth, will be inimical to his family, lustful, hard-hearted and will do 
other's jobs. (BPHS 26:13) 


This mutual reception is formed with positive house lords, so we expect it to be 
generally constructive in the realm of all things associated with the second house - 
family and diet, speech and vision, wealth and knowledge. 


The native has a good character: intelligent, upholding family values, strong-willed, 
passionate, and demonstrating good behavior. He is close to his family, and benefits 
both materially and intellectually from his association with immediate relatives. He 
has good study habits, is articulate, has a facility for languages, and a good voice 
for speaking or singing. Possessing a good vocabulary, he has command of his lan- 
guage, such as would a teacher or a writer. 


He enjoys good food, perhaps more than he should, such that either his teeth or his 
weight reflect his indulgences. He has good vision, both physical eyesight and fore- 
sight (both right eye associations), and is a good observer and logician, such that he 
can make successful plans for the future. 


In money matters, he’s a natural, and is skilled in accumulating and managing liq- 
uid assets. He benefits through family business or profession, with less effort than 
his peers, and is generous in making gifts to family members and charities. He is 
knowledgeable in his field and can exchange expertise for income. 


Famous people with this exchange 


Margery Allingham, mystery writer; Andrea Bocelli, opera singer; Marlon Brando, 
actor; Richard Branson, entrepreneur; Leo Buscaglia, psychologist; Claudia Cardi- 
nale, actress; Rosemary Clooney, singer; David Coulthard, race car driver; Bobby 
Darin, singer; Alain Delon, actor; Jim Densmore, musician; Dionne quintuplets; 
Linda Evans, actress; Ché Guevara, revolutionary; Robert Graves, writer; Mohan 
Koparkar, astrologer; Bob Mackie, fashion designer; Katherine Mansfield, writer; 
Van Morrison, musician; Joyce Carol Oates, writer; Vance Packard, writer; Arthur 
Rimbaud, poet; Ernst Roehm, Nazi; Joseph Salk, scientist; Sam Waterston, actor; Bill 
Wilson, founder of AA. 


Case study 


Arthur Rimbaud, the precocious French boy-poet of the Symbolist movement, 


revolutionized poetic language of the time via his use of free verse. He subsequently 
inspired the Surrealists and many writers of our own age. He was a brilliant student, 
and considered by his teachers to be a child prodigy. At school he studied Greek 
and Latin, excelled in rhetoric, and began writing serious poetry, in both French and 
Latin, by the age of 13, only to completely abandon writing before the age of 21. 


Disenchanted by home life, he ran away several times, and took up a homosexual 
relationship with the poet Paul Verlaine. Both famous and infamous by age 18, he 
thumbed his nose at the Parisian establishment and cultivated a complete derange- 
ment of the senses via absinthe and hashish. He was known as a libertine and a 
restless soul, an archetypal enfant terrible. A willing expatriate many times over, he 
learned English, Russian and Arabic in his many travels throughout Europe, and to 
Indonesia, Yemen and Ethiopia. He died in great pain of bone cancer at age 37. 


pes O 


@ 23 2 


ss 
+40 
$ 


Ww 4 
Venus in 1st house Virgo is in mutual reception with Mercury in 2nd house Libra. 
The two share no mutual aspect. Neither is subject to combustion. Debilitated 
Venus is conjunct the Moon, in close trine with a bright Saturn, and squaring a 
strong Jupiter in its own sign. Mercury is ordinary, in a tight sextile with Jupiter. 


Post-exchange, because their degree positions are relatively close, the two will 
simply swap their aspects with Saturn and Jupiter. Before and after exchange, both 
planets retain aspects with that strong Jupiter, significator of travels and literature, 
which became major themes of Rimbaud’s life. 


Pre- or post-exchange, the chart has benefics Moon, Jupiter and Venus in the an- 
gles. The Moon with Venus is a signature of an artist, while the Moon and Jupiter 
in mutable angles gave Rimbaud an adventurous spirit, taking him in travels across 
Europe and North Africa. The exchange of Venus and Mercury also accentuates the 
literary nature of his art. 


Before and after exchange, Mercury and Venus associate with weak luminaries. As 


significator of fathers, the Sun is debilitated; as significator of mothers, the Moon is 
dark and waning. Thus, this mutual reception also invokes family problems, in part 
because the exchange planets are in a 2/12 relationship. Rimbaud’s father deserted 
the family when Rimbaud was very young; his mother was severe, prompting him to 
run away several times. 

Since exchange planets Mercury and Venus are friends, there was a liveliness in his 
2nd house affairs. Rimbaud’s writing was highly inspired, experimental, and hallu- 
cinatory, while his drinking and drug consumption contributed to the shaky state of 
his finances. 

This is a night birth where Mercury achieves modest gains through minor dignities, 
occupying its own triplicity and decan. (NB: recall that decan is here different from 
face. Refer to Chapter 1 for a review of definitions.) Venus occupies its own decan. 
Since Mercury is ordinary while Venus is debilitated, this confirms Mercury as the 
control planet for this mutual reception. Its occupation of the 2nd inclined Rimbaud 
to substance abuse, linguistics and writing. 


Exchange of 1st and 3rd lords 
Parashara says: 


* Should the Ascendant lord be placed in the 3rd house, the native will be equal 
to a lion in valor, will have all kinds of wealth, will be honorable, will have two 
wives, and be intelligent and happy. (BPHS 26:3) 


* Should the 3rd lord be situated in the Ascendant, the native will have self-made 
wealth, will be disposed to serve, valorous and intelligent, although devoid of 
learning. (BPHS 26:25) 


This mutual reception involves the 3rd house, which can be moderately trouble- 
some, since it provokes desire. However, the exchange planets are in a mutual 3/11 
relationship. Therefore, we expect it to have an “alternating current” effect, giving 
as many problems as benefits. 


Involving the 1st and 3rd lords, we get a sense of personal (mis)adventures, based 
perhaps on some inherent character or physical flaw, and finding expression via the 
arts, sports or some other activity that demands dexterity or skill. 


The native has a somewhat dubious or shifty character - sometimes polite, other 
times speaking harshly of others. Generally unsteady of mind, he has trouble con- 
centrating for any lengthy period of time. Because he is inclined to seek adventures, 
he thinks a lot about sex, is inclined to wander, and may therefore pursue more than 
one relationship at a time. 


Siblings are a focal element in his family life, and he may have one among them 
who is near and dear to his heart, somewhat like a best friend. Because of the 3/11 
relationship between lords, his younger siblings enjoy gains or profits. 


His courage waxes and wanes - bold on one occasion, timid on another. Frequently 
challenged and troubled by competition, his efforts in life are inconsistent. Because 
of frequent failures, he may develop a do-or-die attitude toward his ambitions. 
Sometimes foolhardy, he endures physical risks, suffering injuries to the neck, 
shoulder or arms. Because of his strenuous physical activities, he may eat more than 
others. 


He has special talents in sports or the arts, especially in fields that require signifi- 
cant physical dexterity or adroitness. 


Famous people with this exchange 


George W. Bush, US President; Bob Crane, actor; Robert Desnos, surrealist; Zipporah 
Dobyns, astrologer; Jane Fonda, actress; Tama Janowitz, writer; Diane Keaton, 
actress; Evel Knievel, daredevil; Sugar Ray Leonard, boxer; Bette Bao Lord, writer; 
Michael Milken, investor; Pele, soccer player; Saint Teresa of Avila, religious icon; 
Liz Smith, gossip columnist; Richie Valens, singer; Mike Wallace, TV personality; 
Dwight Yoakam, singer. 


Case study 


Evel Knievel, the hell-raising stuntman who rode his motorcycle to daredevil fame, 
has been an active athlete in many sports throughout his life, eg, skier, pole vaulter, 
hockey player. After leaving high school he got a job at a local mine but was fired 


after he performed a “wheelie” with a large earth-moving vehicle and crashed into 
a power line. As a young man, he launched an environmental protest campaign to 
protect elk in national parks, a form of penance after he’d been discovered guiding 
deer-hunting trips in Yellowstone National Park. For awhile, he was an insurance 
salesman and ran a Honda dealership at which he offered $100 discounts for any 
customer who could beat him arm-wrestling. 


He’s a veteran of multiple stunt injuries (75 ramp-to-ramp motorcycle jumps) that 
have resulted in 433 fractures in 35 bones, thus earning him a spot in the Guinness 
Book of World Records as the survivor of “most bones broken in a lifetime.” In get- 
ting repaired, he’s endured no fewer than 14 operations, during one of which he 
contracted hepatitis C, and was obliged to have a liver transplant! 


With a past as checkered as his medical record, Knievel has been arrested for vari- 
ous acts of violence — assaulting his girlfriend, sexually soliciting an undercover cop, 
and beating his press agent with a baseball bat, a rules infraction that earned him 
six months in jail. 


ee: 
2s 
Mo Re 00 g Kt 


og WS188'50} 20 
59! — 
Zi ZO. 
! 47' 20 3) 
| | | | 
= — | 
| 53° | | | 
b \ Ase” a 
29“ alg 
AR, 
sy] st 
OC AR 
WwW =v ver oO 
oR | 
eye 


Jupiter in 1st house Capricorn is in mutual reception with Saturn in 3rd house 
Pisces. The two are in a very wide sextile. They are both retrograde, ie, bright, and 
therefore deemed strong. Debilitated Jupiter is in wide applying opposition to the 
Moon in its own sign, and an out-of-sign trine with the Sun and Mercury. Saturn is in 
an exact trine with the Moon. 


Post-exchange, if Jupiter carries its own degree into the 3rd house, it opposes the 
Sun and Mercury, and forms a wide trine with the Moon. If Saturn takes its degree to 
the 1st, it exactly opposes the Moon. 

Before and after exchange, both planets share aspects with the angular Moon in its 
own sign, representing Knievel’s showmanship, fan base and fame. 


Since Jupiter is a significator for the liver, its debilitation is suggestive both of his 


hepatitis and the subsequent transplant/exchange of organs. 

The sign-to-sign opposition between radical Saturn and Mars explains his aggres- 
sive streak, his dogged defiance in the face of danger, and the multiple accidents 
that have earned him so many broken bones. 

This is a day birth where neither planet has gained much in the way of minor digni- 
ties or receptions with the other. Jupiter is in the term of Saturn. 

Since Jupiter is debilitated while Saturn is ordinary, this confirms Saturn as the con- 
trol planet for this mutual reception. Its placement in the 3rd gave Knievel a love of 
risky adventures. 


Exchange of 1st and 4th lords 
Parashara says: 


* Should the Ascendant lord be in the 4th house, the native will be blessed with 
paternal and maternal happiness, many brothers, and will be lascivious, virtu- 
ous and charming. (BPHS 26:4) 


* When the 4th lord is situated in the Ascendant, the native is blessed with learn- 
ing, virtues, ornaments, lands, conveyances and maternal happiness. (BPHS 
26:37) 


This mutual reception is formed in angular houses, placing their lords in a 4/10 
relationship. With an exchange involving positive house lords, we anticipate good 
results and, thanks to their angularity, visible results. 


Engaging the 1st and 4th lords, we expect a strong personality or some charisma to 
play a role in achieving something notable in 4th house themes, such as psychology, 
education, community, or property. 


The native has a stable and dynamic character, a strong sense of morals, and loyalty 
for things associated with his ancestry, domestic environment and country. He is 
fond of his mother, with whom he shares physical or personality characteristics, and 
whose values he respects. She has a good profession, reputation or status, and is a 
significant influence on his character. 


His education is solid, in a field related to earth sciences, psychology or teaching. 
He is attached to his home and takes pride in his property, vehicles and major pos- 
sessions. He tends to accumulate fixed assets. He might well be a loyalist, a patriot 
or a nationalist, insofar as it concerns his civic community, political allegiances or 
country. 


His happiness is linked to his physical well-being. He pays a lot of attention to phys- 
ical fitness and health, clothes and personal attractiveness. Happiness of the body 
implies sexual enjoyments, which leads him to seek sexual experience as a source of 
happiness. Having achieved his own satisfaction, he may further address his activ- 
ities to making others happy, especially those that could be considered part of his 
community or constituency. 


Famous people with this exchange 


Joe Adonis, Mafia boss; Robert Altman, producer; Shirley Temple Black, actress; Jeff 
Bridges, actor; Joe Cocker, singer; Billy Crystal, comedian; Samantha Fox, actress; 
Nancy Hastings, astrologer; Henri Landru, serial killer; Maria Montessori, educator; 
Rod Stewart, singer; Sigourney Weaver, actress; Tennessee Williams, playwright. 


Case study 


Maria Montessori, founder of the renowned educational system and school network 
that bears her name, was the first woman in Italy to receive a medical degree, de- 
spite hostility from male colleagues during her studies. 


Although she had a child after an affair with a fellow doctor, she declined to marry 
because she didn’t want to resign her position. Instead, she placed her son in foster 
care until he was a teenager, after which he became an assistant in her research. 


During her medical work in orphanages, hospitals and asylums, she became con- 
cerned about the low level of scholastic ability in the children she encountered. 
With no formal training in education per se, she got involved in the schooling of 
children. 


One of her key insights was that environment had a huge effect on learning. Fol- 
lowing this revelation, she subsequently evolved a unique method of teaching, an 
educational methodology that has since been exported around the world. Young 
students learned through activities involving exploration, manipulations, order, 
repetition, abstraction, and communication, before later moving on to reasoning, 
imagination, and creativity. 

She became a public advocate for children’s education before founding the Casa 
dei Bambini schools that formed the model of the network that ultimately went 
international. 


Oo 
$ 


Venus in 1st house Cancer is in mutual reception with the Moon in 4th house Libra. 
They are both ordinary, but in a very wide applying square. Although Venus is con- 
junct the ascendant, it forms no other aspects within traditional orbs. The Moon is 
in sextile with the Sun in its own sign. 


Post-exchange, if Venus carries its degree to the 4th, it forms a sextile with the Sun. 
If the Moon takes its degree to the 1st, it forms a sextile to Mercury, strong in its 
sign. 

The placement of ascendant lord Moon in the 4th invokes the theme of education, 
as does the exchange itself. The Moon and Venus in the angles is also a signature of 
an artist, and although Montessori didn’t follow this particular career path, one of 
the main tenets of her philosophy was that environment (architecture and interior 
decorating are both 4th house subjects) had a substantial influence on learning 
outcomes. 


Venus with a debilitated Mars in the ascendant, both flanked by malefics Sun and 
north node Rahu, suggests her scientific training, as well as the many obstacles she 
faced in her profession. 


This is a night birth where neither planet gains much by way of minor dignities or 
receptions with the other. Venus is in its own term, while in the face of the Moon. 


Since both are ordinary, neither seems a candidate for control planet. If forced to 
choose, however, the association of Venus with a debilitated Mars diminishes its sta- 
tus. This arguably makes the Moon the control planet for this mutual reception. Its 
placement in the 4th house evokes the system of education for which she became 
renowned. 


Exchange of 1st and 5th lords 
Parashara says: 


* In case the Ascendant lord has gone into the 5th house, the native will have 
mediocre happiness through his sons, the first born will not live; he will be hon- 
orable, wrathful and favorite to a king. (BPHS 26:5) 


* Should the 5th lord occupy the Ascendant, the native will be scholarly, be blessed 
with progenic happiness, be miserly, crooked, and a stealer of other’s wealth. 
(BPHS 26:49) 


This is a mutual reception where the lords are in trinal houses. An exchange of 
(positive) dharma house lords suggests good karma from previous lives. Involving 
planets that represent the atma (1st house Self), ahamkara (1st house ego) and 
buddhi (Sth house discriminating mind), we anticipate a substantial personal, intel- 
lectual or spiritual experience. 


As a consequence, the native has an intellectual disposition, good intelligence and 
a facility for both learning and teaching. He enjoys good karma (purva punya) from 
the virtuous deeds of his previous life, the fruit of which is manifested in the quality 
of his mind, his creativity, and the nature of his children. 


His mind is alert, concentrated and aware. Within his circle, he is respected for 
his intelligence. Because he is spiritually inclined, his thoughts turn naturally to 
prayers, positive visualizations and mantras for improvement. 


His children display good intelligence. He delights in telling them stories, both 
fanciful and true. His children are obedient, and he in turn respects their opinions, 
such that in time he falls under their influence. His children pursue higher studies in 
combination with foreign travel. 


He enjoys success in government and politics. He is also lucky in gambling and spec- 
ulation, especially related to sports. 


Famous people with this exchange 


Karl Barth, theologian; Carol Channing, actress; Tim Curry, actor; John Flamsteed, 
astronomer; Paul René Fonck, WW1 ace pilot; Peter Frampton, musician; Ulysses 
S. Grant, US President; Alex Haley, writer; Stephen King, writer; Lynne Palmer, 
astrologer; Algernon Swinburne, poet; Dennis Wheatley, occult author; Steve Win- 
wood, musician; Michael York, actor. 


Case study 


Stephen King, one of the most commercially successful writers of all time, has 
proven himself both prolific and astute when it comes to knowing what fears lurk 
beneath the beds of America. His 54 horror fiction novels have sold more than 350 
million copies, many of which have been adapted into feature films, miniseries, 
television shows and comic books. He has received multiple awards for his writing. 


Although incredibly successful in his professional life, King has had his share of 
personal misfortunes. Several years after overcoming substance addiction, he was 
struck by a van while strolling on the road near his home. The crippling accident 
sidelined him for many months, principally from a broken hip and a right leg so 


shattered that doctors initially considered amputating his leg. 


King is politically vocal, speaking out on behalf of Democrats and against Repub- 
licans, particularly the Tea Party. He donates roughly $4 million to charities. He 
stands at the center of a writing family. His wife Tabitha has published nine novels, 
and their two sons have both published short story collections. King loves hard rock 
music, which plays in the background while he writes, and is a big fan of the Boston 
Red Sox. 


} a 
12) 


Mars in 1st house Cancer is in mutual reception with the Moon in Sth house Scorpio. 
The two share no mutual aspect. Both are debilitated, and therefore gain equally 

in resuming their own signs upon exchange. Mars is in a sextile with the Sun, and a 
close trine with Jupiter. The Moon is in a sextile with a strong Mercury, and a close 
trine with Saturn. 


Post-exchange, if Mars carries its degree into the Sth house, it conjoins Jupiter, 
sextiles the Sun, and forms an out-of-sign square with Saturn. If the Moon takes its 
degree to the 1st, it conjoins Saturn and sextiles Mercury. 


With both lord and occupant of the ascendant debilitated, we expect some dysfunc- 
tionality. To his credit, King admitted to years of alcohol and cocaine abuse. Equally 
to his credit (and perhaps the redemptive power of this mutual reception), he pulled 
himself back from self-destruction in time to continue his stellar career. 


Mars and Saturn are two prime malefics in the 1st house, where Saturn is inimical to 
Mars. Physical (1st house) problems are obvious by way of the substance abuse now 
under control, the near-fatal accident with a runaway vehicle, and the ongoing po- 
tential for blood/liver disorders. 


The Moon with benefic Jupiter in the Sth gives great imagination and prolific ex- 
pression, although their affliction by the nodal axis in part explains King’s inventive 
but creepy mind. Suffice to say, King must have teetered on the dark edge more 


than once. No wonder he wrote such darkly macabre material. 


Since the Moon and Mars are friendly, we get a sense that the mutual reception will 
work out, particularly on a mental/spiritual plane, and in relations with his chil- 
dren, all being invoked via the 5th lord exchange. 


This is a night birth with an extraordinary degree of interaction between the two 
planets in exchange. Both Moon and Mars occupy a triplicity of Mars. Both Moon 
and Mars occupy a decan of the Moon. Mars is in its own term. 

Since Mars is associated with its enemy Saturn, while the Moon is with its friend 
Jupiter, this suggests the Moon as the control planet in this mutual reception. Its 


placement in the Sth house of creative self-expression speaks to his prolific career 
as a writer. 


Exchange of 1st and 6th lords 
Parashara says: 


* In the event of the Ascendant lord having fallen in the 6th house, the native 
is deprived of bodily pleasures. If the Ascendant lord is under the influence of 
a malefic and has no benefic aspect on him, he will be troubled by an enemy. 
(BPHS 26:6) 


* If the 6th lord is situated in the Ascendant, the native will be sickly, famous, in- 
imical to his relatives, adventurous and virtuous. (BPHS 26:61) 


This is a mutual reception involving the problematic 6th house. In addition, the 
exchange planets are in a 6/8 relationship. Because the exchange involves the 6th 
lord, we expect mostly difficulties, although since the 6th is also an arena for com- 
petition, things can improve through time and effort. 


The native has a contentious character, and is both brave and jealous. He hoards 
money. Eager to triumph over others, and intent on constant malevolence, he gets 
involved in litigation and other conflicts. He creates obstacles for his enemies. 


His health is good, the result of either a strong constitution free from disease, a 
powerful physique developed through sports, or a resistance to illness built up via 
frequent minor ailments. 


He makes enemies as easily as others make friends, both in his place of employment 
and in his family circle. Of the latter, he enjoys a special love/hate relationship with 
his mother’s siblings, who experience hardships, illness or danger in their lives. 


Very much a realist, not a daydreamer, he works hard for a living, and takes special 
pride in physical labor. Drawn to fields such as medicine, police, and the military, he 
shares a special affinity with animals, either as pets, or through veterinary work. 


Famous people with this exchange 


Sri Aurobindu, spiritual leader; Eddie Albert, actor; Milton Berle, comedian; Sandra 
Bernhard, comedienne; Kenneth Branagh, actor; Natalie Cole, singer; Morgan 
Fairchild, actress; Federico Fellini, director; Edouard Manet, artist; Marie Antoinette, 
Queen of France; Julianne Moore, actress; Jackie Robinson, baseball player; Mark 
Spitz, Olympic swimmer; Algernon Swinburne, poet; Penny Thornton, astrologer; 
Robert Zoller, astrologer. 


Case study 


Edouard Manet, an artist of the 19th Century whose name is almost synonymous 
with the Impressionist movement, started out to pursue a naval career, but after 

a year as a sea cadet, flunked his naval exams and decided to become an artist 
instead. Extremely prolific, with a catalog of over 400 works, he defied artistic 
conventions of the day by using beggars, prostitutes and common Parisians as his 
subjects, and rendering them in a bold rough style that contrasted with the detailed 
work of his contemporaries. 


Without seeking controversy, he was labeled a radical painter, and vilified by the 
art establishment for his treatment of certain subjects. During the Franco-Prussian 
War, he served as a gunner in the National Guard, before resuming his place at the 


center of an Impressionist group that included Degas, Renoir and Monet, the latter's 
name being so similar as to cause confusion for the public, and great irritation to 
Monet. 


“Ty. 


Saturn in 1st house Leo is in mutual reception with the Sun in 6th house Capricorn. 
The two share no mutual aspect. Saturn is in its detriment, but it is bright (ie, ret- 
rograde) and enjoys the support of three benefics: a sign-to-sign opposition with 
Jupiter, a trine with Mercury and a square with Venus. The Sun is ordinary and ina 
wide applying square with the Moon. 


Post-exchange, if Saturn carries its degree into the 6th, it conjoins the south node 
and makes a sextile to Venus. If the Sun takes its degree to the 1st, it opposes 
Jupiter. 


This is an exchange of malefics who are mutual enemies. The 6th house themes 
were manifested in multiple ways: his uncle's influence in developing his artistic 
taste and technical bias; his stints in both the merchant marine and the National 
Guard; the fierce public criticism of his “bohemian” work; and even his competition 
with Monet for the name most identified with Impressionism. 


Assisted perhaps by the power of this combination, Manet became a ground- 
breaking influence for the Impressionist movement via his technical innovations, 
and shared acclaim in conjunction with notoriety. Since the ascendant lord Sun is 
tainted by association with the nodal axis, Manet’s health ultimately suffered, and 
he died from gangrene, despite the amputation of a leg. 


This is a night birth where neither exchange planet enjoys any minor dignities or 
receptions with the other, so there is no clear control planet. Even if we review pri- 
mary dignities, we find the Sun is ordinary while Saturn is mixed, being both bright 
and in detriment. Therefore, the dual themes (1st/6th houses) of the mutual recep- 
tion manifest coequally. 


Exchange of 1st and 7th lords 
Parashara says: 


* If the Ascendant lord is a malefic and he occupies the 7th house, the native’s wife 
will not live. If the Ascendant lord is a benefic planet, the native is an aimless 
wanderer, penurious, of ascetic disposition, or becomes a king. (BPHS 26:7) 


* Jn case the 7th lord happens to fall in the Ascendant, the native will traverse 
other people’s wives, be wicked, skillful, be devoid of fortitude, and will be 
afflicted by windy diseases. (BPHS 26:73) 


This is a mutual reception wherein the lords are in a 7/7 relationship from angular 

houses. This sign-to-sign mutual aspect serves to strengthen each other’s significa- 
tions (the Self and the Other), and would typically be made public due to the angu- 
larity of the two participants. 


Because of this dynamic, ie, a literal opposition between the 1st and 7th lords, we 
expect this exchange to strongly manifest in the arena of relationships, whether 
personal, social or professional. 


The native has an amorous disposition, and is interested in the spouses of others. 
Tantalized by desire, he finds it difficult to settle with one partner, such that he is 
bound to an endless cycle of attraction and repulsion, union and separation. His life 
may thus be a carousel of partners, such that it signifies a major theme of his life. 


His inclination for relationship-building will also play out in a professional context, 
eg, through fields such as customer relations, sales and marketing, public relations, 
performance art or international diplomacy. Effectively, the person becomes an 
agent of some kind or other. 


He is interested in travel, partly for business, but mostly due to a profound restless- 
ness that makes him wander endlessly. 


Famous people with this exchange 


Giulio Andreotti, politician; Rupert Brooke, poet; Rick Danko, musician; Doris Day, 
actress; John Denver, singer; Indira Gandhi, politician; James Earl Jones, actor; 
Shirley MacLaine, actress; Maximilian |, German Emperor; Susan Sarandon, actress; 
Robert Stack, actor; Jacqueline Susann, writer. 


Case study 


Jacqueline Susann, the original and undisputed Queen of Pulp Fiction, is the only 
writer to have three novels in a row hit #1 on the New York Times’ bestseller list. A 
pot-smoking teenager with a reputed IQ of 140 who had a lifelong, warped crush 
on her philandering father, Susann subsequently failed as an actress, model, singer, 
and playwright before turning to writing in her 40s. Her enormously devoted hus- 
band worked tirelessly to promote her career, in spite of her chronic infidelities 
with comedians and stars of both sexes, including Eddie Cantor, George Jessel, Ethel 
Merman and Coco Chanel. 


Considered a better schmoozer than a writer, she swore like a trucker, punched 
agents and critics who crossed her, and once threw a drink at Johnny Carson in a 
bar. Plagued with insecurities and pain from a mastectomy, she drank and took pills 


to cope, once attempting suicide by trying to leap from her terrace, after which her 
husband handcuffed himself to her to prevent further attempts. She loved pets, 
basing her first book on her poodle, and had one child, a son who was diagnosed 
autistic and spent his life institutionalized. 


vou y 
The Moon in 1st house Capricorn is in mutual reception with Saturn in 7th house 
Cancer. The two are in a very wide applying opposition. Both are in detriment. The 
Moon is strong in being almost full, and participates in a wide opposition with 
Venus. Depending on the orbs allowed, we might include the Moon in a cardinal T- 
Square with Mars and Venus. Saturn is unaspected. 


Post-exchange, if the Moon carries its degree into the 7th house, it widely conjoins 
Venus. If Saturn takes its degree to the 1st, it is exactly on the ascendant. 


The opposition between Moon and Saturn gives a focus on partnerships, albeit with 
considerable friction. The exchange may explain Susann’s desperate impulse to try 
to please everyone, all the while pretending she didn’t really give a damn, leading 
to convoluted relationships. 


Moon and Venus opposing in the angles gave Susann an inclination for the arts, 
sexual relationships, and luxury living. Venus and Saturn in the 7th also invoked a 
libidinous nature. Saturn at the center of a benefic cluster (Jupiter, Venus and Mer- 
cury) further intensified the relationship themes of her life, giving her abundant 
opportunities to indulge her promiscuity while at the same time assuring her the 
security of a devoted spouse. 


This is a day birth where neither planet gains much by way of minor dignities or 
receptions with the other. Saturn is in the face of the Moon, which only confirms the 
Moon as the control planet for this mutual reception, since it is full, while Saturn is 
merely ordinary. The Moon's placement in the 1st gave her a temporal fame denied 
most writers. 


Exchange of 1st and 8th lords 
Parashara says: 


* Should the Ascendant lord occupy the 8th house, the native will be Siddha Vidya 
Visharada (having the knowledge of occult powers), sickly, thievish, extremely 
wrathful, a gambler, and given to traversing other’s wives. (BPHS 26:8) 


* tf the 8th lord happens to be placed in the Ascendant, the native will be bereft 
of bodily pleasures, be detractor of gods and Brahmins, and will have wounds. 
(BPHS 26:85) 


This is a mutual reception wherein the lords are in a 6/8 relationship. Because this 
exchange involves the 8th house lord, who has few virtues other than trial-by- 
trauma, we expect problems in spades. 


The native’s character is flawed by nature, such that he is valiant in performing 
mean acts, and stubborn in doing virtuous acts. He is a gambler, a cheat, and a thug, 
or associates with people of a similar disposition. 


His longevity is good, but he has bad habits that do harm to his health, or place him 
in physical jeopardy. Therefore, his life is marked by constant mishaps, accidents, 
traumas and reversals of fortune, such that he is chronically plagued by injuries or 
disease. His partner's family is also liable to illness, conflict, and litigation. 


He is prone to getting into situations of abuse, violence, sexual servitude, or finan- 
cial mismanagement, especially concerning the money of business or romantic 
partners. 


Curious, he loves mysteries, and is skilled in research and investigation. He has 
knowledge of occult subjects but is generally disrespectful of traditional religion. 
This may favor careers requiring stealth, secrecy, extreme measures, and reversal of 
circumstances. 


Famous people with this exchange 


Noam Chomsky, philosopher; Glenn Close, actress; Abigail Folger, coffee heiress; 
Amyr Klynck, adventurer; Buz Myers, astrologer; Ilie Nastase, tennis player; Dinah 
Shore, entertainer; Sirhan Sirhan, assassin; August Strindberg, writer; Edgar Winter, 
musician. 


Case study 


Abigail Folger, heiress to the Folger coffee fortune, studied art history at Harvard 
and later became active in civil rights and community welfare, doing volunteer 
work with ghetto children in Los Angeles. She had the misfortune to earn her 15 
minutes of fame by being in the wrong place at the wrong time. 


In the spring of 1969, both Roman Polanski and his wife Sharon Tate were away so 
much on film projects that they asked Folger and her boyfriend to house-sit their LA 
home. The night of August 8th, when Sharon Tate and another friend were visiting, 
four members of Charles Manson’s cult crashed their party. Along with three other 
victims, Folger was brutally murdered in a killing spree that shocked America, and 
put one more nail in the coffin of the hippie era. 


Although he had no direct exposure to Folger, Charles Manson was subsequently 
convicted under the "joint responsibility” rule of law. The murder conspiracy that 
he'd hatched was intended to ignite an apocalyptic race war he called “Helter 
Skelter.” 


|, 


@ Te @ 
ear $% 

28 49 79 4. 

58 167" 
10.7 


wo 

The Moon in 1st house Sagittarius is in mutual reception with Jupiter in 8th house 
Cancer. The two share no mutual aspect. The Moon is waxing and approaching full- 
ness, therefore strong. It opposes Saturn and is in out-of-sign square with Venus, 
which makes it part of a T-Square. Saturn is ordinary and in two out-of-sign aspects 
- sextile the Sun and square Venus. 


Post-exchange, if the Moon carries its degree into the 8th, it forms two out-of-sign 
aspects — sextiles with each of Mars and Venus. If Jupiter takes its degree to the 1st, 
it forms only a trine with Mercury. 


Although the exchange of two benefics via the 8th house suggests the handsome 
legacy to which Folger was heir, both planets are damaged. Whether before or after 
exchange, one or the other is damaged by association with the Sun and north node 
Rahu in the 8th house. In the case of the Moon, this is particularly ominous, since as 
8th lord it is also the significator of longevity. 


This is a day birth. Only Jupiter gains some advantage through minor forms of 
reception with its exchange partner, since the Moon is in the decan and term of 
Jupiter. When we compare basic strengths and weaknesses, we're reminded that the 
Moon is full while Jupiter is exalted. 


This suggests Jupiter’s candidacy for control planet. Its placement in the 8th house 
reflects the family fortune to which she was heir, as well as the tragic end to her life. 


Exchange of 1st and 9th lords 
Parashara says: 


* If the Ascendant lord is situated in the 9th house, the native will be fortunate, 
dear to the people, devotee of Lord Vishnu, skillful, eloquent speaker, and will 
be endowed with wife, sons and wealth. (BPHS 26:9) 


* If the 9th lord is placed in the Ascendant, the native will be fortunate, prosper- 
ous, be honored by the king (or government), good natured, charming, and be 
honored by the people. (BPHS 26:97) 


This is a mutual reception wherein the lords are in a 5/9 relationship from trinal 
houses. Since two dharma lords are involved, we again get the sense of good karma, 
although this time it is generated as a consequence of the current rather than a past 
life. 


The native has a virtuous character, and is disposed to religious observances and 
charities. As a consequence, he enjoys the favor of both church and state, and re- 
ceives some recognition or honors from them. 


He is fond of his father, with whom he shares some physical or personality charac- 
teristics. If we adopt the perspective of the 9th house, and see the exchange from 
the 5th house away, we might also assume that the father is an adventurer, a specu- 
lator, or one who takes risks. 


He creates good karma in his present life, largely through the proper application 
of his mind, and his devotion to both father and guru. He is dedicated to his spiri- 
tual development, and is fortunate in finding a proper guru, whom he serves as his 
master. 


He does well in the fields of law, higher education, publishing and the travel indus- 
try. He travels extensively, either for his higher education or for spiritual pilgrim- 
age, and may take up residence in a foreign country. 


Famous people with this exchange 


Cyd Charisse, dancer; Derek Clayton, track & field star; Christie Hefner, publisher; 
Erica Jong, writer; Gary Kasparov, chess grandmaster; Jacques Lacan, psychoana- 
lyst; Ricky Martin, singer; Nick Nolte, actor; Franz Schubert, composer; Irving Wal- 
lace, writer; Harold Wilson, politician. 


Case study 


Franz Schubert, the 19th century Austrian composer, left behind more unfinished 
music than any great composer. He wrote as many as eight songs a day and, by 
the time he died at age 31, had a colossal lifework of nearly 1,000 compositions, 
the most famous being the aptly-titled "Unfinished Symphony”. The 12th child of 
a schoolteacher father who inspired him to play music, he studied first under the 
parish church’s choir master, and later under the famous Antonio Salieri, Mozart's 
teacher. For a time he worked at the same school as his father, played music at 
church, and composed masses of his own. 


Poor and unworldly, he relied on the support of friends but, despite a bohemian 
lifestyle, always awoke early and composed every day until noon after which he 


went out drinking. He had a mysterious love life, and probably contracted syphilis 
from a servant girl. He was subsequently treated with mercury, which left him bald 
for over a year, and gave him headaches and vertigo until his death. Although he 
died of “nerve fever", it was more likely due to an occlusion of a cerebral artery re- 
sulting from syphilis. 


oe ae 
6) 4, 

v 19 |29 24 i 
14 po AT go a 


O ope! ° a 
| | ss08 UY) 
| Bpoo 1 ro | 
\ mh 88°. 3s M4 


Asc 


ID 


@ 


5) mene 
Saturn in 1st house Gemini is in mutual reception with Mercury in 9th house Aquar- 
ius. Saturn and Mercury, friends and neuters, are in a very wide trine. The ascendant 
lord Mercury is ordinary, associating with benefics Moon and Jupiter but aspecting 
no other planets. Saturn is bright and forms a sign-to-sign opposition with benefic 
Venus, but is otherwise unaspected. 


Post-exchange, if Mercury carries its own degree into the 1st house, it is compro- 
mised by exact contact with the nodal axis. If Saturn takes its degree to the 9th, it 
remains unaspected. 


The 1st house themes manifested as a lifetime of health problems, including 
syphilis and typhoid. The 9th house themes are strongly evident via the influence of 
his father, the church, and a famous "guru". 


The other notable aspect of Schubert’s life was his dubious distinction of having 
produced so much yet left so much unfinished. For the latter we need look no fur- 
ther than the exchange via his Gemini ascendant, the archetypal sign of distraction. 
Mercury is easily diverted, and Saturn brings frustration. 


This is a day birth with an extraordinary degree of interaction between the two 
exchange planets via minor dignities and receptions. Mercury and Saturn are both 
in a triplicity of Saturn. Mercury and Saturn are both in a term of Mercury. Mercury 
is in a decan of Saturn, while Saturn is in a decan of Mercury. 


Although neither planet assumes overt control, there’s a high degree of symbiosis 
between them. If we return to basics, note that Saturn is bright while Mercury is 


merely ordinary, thus granting Saturn the role of control planet for this mutual re- 
ception. Its placement in the 1st house speaks to both his fame and the great strug- 
gles of his life. 


Exchange of 1st and 10th lords 
Parashara says: 


* Should the Ascendant lord be situated in the 10th house, the native will be 
endowed with paternal happiness, will enjoy royal favor, fame among men, and 
will undoubtedly have self-earned wealth. (BPHS 26:10) 


* Should the 10th lord be situated in the Ascendant, the native will be learned, 
famous, be a poet, will incur diseases in childhood, be happy later on, and his 
wealth will increase day by day. (BPHS 26:109) 


This is a mutual reception wherein the lords are in a 4/10 relationship from angular 
houses, thus suggesting a bias for visible activity and accomplishment, particularly 
in the career, and possibly leading to some degree of fame (or notoriety). 


The native is of an ambitious nature and material disposition, desiring power, au- 
thority, recognition and the accumulation of possessions. He achieves an elevated 
status and becomes known within his social circle for his wealth and/or his indepen- 
dent profession. He is a self-made man, and enjoys plenty of gains and vehicles. 


With a bias for self-employment or entrepreneurial ventures, he is capable of man- 
aging projects with little or no supervision. He is natural management material and, 
whether through simple desire for power or genuine organizational skills, he is ca- 

pable of exercising leadership and directing control of large enterprises. 


His career involves the physical body or personality in some active way, eg, athlete, 
model, performer, actor, politician, motivational speaker. He is also interested in 
aviation, meteorology and astronomy. 


He may enjoy a special relationship with the mother of his partner. 


Famous people with this exchange 


Steve Allen, comedian; Donald Byrd, musician; Francois Duvalier, dictator; José 
Feliciano, blind musician; Naomi Judd, singer; Ethel Kennedy, political wife; René 
Jules Lalique, designer; Joan McEvers, astrologer; Marvin Mitchelson, attorney; Don 
Schollander, Olympic swimmer; David Souter, Supreme Court jurist; Jess Stearn, oc- 
cult writer. 


Case study 


Ethel Kennedy, the archetype and living icon of an American matriarchy, was born 
into wealth as the daughter of a coal magnate whose house was always filled with 
priests and nuns. Tragedy has been at her elbow throughout her life. Both her al- 
coholic parents and a brother died in separate plane crashes. Her husband Bobby 
was assassinated during his Presidential bid campaign. Two of her 11 children died 
accidentally. Both brothers-in-law suffered tragedy — President John F. Kennedy was 
assassinated, and Senator Edward Kennedy was implicated in the Chappaquiddick 
scandal. 


In addition, dozens of her extended family were implicated in mysterious and/ 

or fatal circumstances — car accidents, plane crashes, house fires, drug overdoses, 
skiing mishaps, rapes, accidental shootings, and murders. A devout Catholic whose 
faith has been tested countless times over the decades, she continues to be a faith- 


ful church-goer to this day. Perhaps in penance for a karmic legacy that hovers like 
a black cloud over the Kennedys, she has been devoted throughout her active life 
to public service, ranging from domestic housing issues to international medical 
assistance. 


ty 8 
S 
a eR 19 my 
06 ea 


| 4 | | 
| Asc 99 | 
+ (03! 
vA 10 ee) 
6) aloe 
Qo, 
% 24 25 
4 19 
nO) Il 


ee 


Mars in 1st house Aquarius is in mutual reception with Saturn in 10th house Scorpio. 
This is an exchange of natural malefics and mutual enemies. The two share no mu- 
tual aspect. Mars is ordinary, exactly on the ascendant and in sextile to the Moon. 
Saturn is bright and enjoys a close trine with the Sun and a strong Jupiter. 


Post-exchange, if Mars carries its degree into the 10th, it forms trines with benefics 
Mercury and Venus. If Saturn takes its degree into the 1st, it becomes isolated. 


The themes of the 1st house emerged in her apparent stoicism in the face of family 
tragedies, while the 10th house evoked the social status brought about through the 
Kennedy dynasty and American politics. 


Before or after exchange, the angles and thus the karmic themes of this life are 
dominated by malefics. In fact, the sheer number and magnitude of tragedies by 
which her life has been marked is the signature of an angular node amplifying the 
exchange of two malefics. When her husband Bobby was assassinated, transiting 
Mars opposed natal Saturn to the exact degree. 


This is a night birth where neither planet gains much in the way of minor dignities 

or reception with the other. Saturn is in a triplicity of Mars, thus granting the latter 
modest advantage. And yet Mars is merely ordinary while Saturn is bright. Further- 
more, Saturn is aspected by a strong Jupiter. 


Bottom line, we may tentatively judge Saturn as the control planet in this mutual 
reception. Its placement in the 10th is symptomatic of private tragedies lived large 
in the public eye. 


Exchange of 1st and 11th lords 
Parashara says: 


* In case the Ascendant lord has been placed in the 11th house, the native will al- 
ways have gains, good qualities, fame and many wives. (BPHS 26:11) 


* {f the 11th lord is placed in the Ascendant, the native will be of Sattvik nature, 
be rich, happy, even-sighted, a poet, eloquent in speech, and be always endowed 
with gains. (BPHS 26:121) 


This is a mutual reception wherein the lords are in a 3/11 relationship. Because of 
this configuration, and one of the participants being lord of a house (the 11th) rep- 
resenting fruition of hopes, we expect results to be commensurate with personal 
desire and effort, improving over time. 


The native is virtuous, scholarly, patient and persevering. He has a strong constitu- 
tion and works hard, such that he enjoys a long and productive life. He achieves his 
hopes and desires, especially in the matter of wealth, which he earns through fair 
means. 


He has a lot of friends, including those of the opposite sex, with whom he forms 
close relationships. His social circle includes people from business, political and 
artistic backgrounds. Elder siblings will be near and dear to him, and treated as best 
friends. Siblings will undertake frequent short journeys. 


He is eloquent with words, and could be a writer. He is also adept at handling 
money. Professionally, he could be a financial advisor, an investment fund man- 
ager, a group facilitator, a team-builder, a political bagman, or fundraiser for social 
causes. 


Famous people with this exchange 


Queen Beatrix, Dutch royalty; Tony Blair, politician; Bill Blass, designer; Charles 
Bukowski, writer; M.C. Escher, artist; Martha Graham, dancer; Bobby Knight, basket- 
ball coach; Patrick McGoohan, actor; Lord Louis Mountbatten, British royalty; Mort 
Sahl, entertainer; Ted Turner, entrepreneur; Walt Whitman, poet; Esther Williams, 
actress/swimmer. 


Case study 


Charles Bukowski, béte noire of American fiction, is best known via the autobio- 
graphical portrayal of his lifestyle in the movie Barfly. A notorious drinker and 
womanizer, Bukowski was a prolific poet, short story writer and novelist whose 
low-life subjects - the drunken, destitute and debauched denizens of the race 
track, backstreet bars and flophouses of Los Angeles - assured that his work would 
never be embraced by the mainstream. Although saddled for years with menial 
jobs, Bukowski ultimately produced over 60 books. Largely ignored in America, he 
enjoyed enormous appeal in Europe, where both Jean-Paul Sartre and Jean Genet 
called him “America's greatest poet”. 


In his youth he suffered from violent beatings from his alcoholic father, and acne so 
severe that his boils had to be surgically drilled before draining. He married twice 
and lived with dozens of other women. Decades of heavy drinking rewarded him 


with a bleeding ulcer that hospitalized and almost killed him. He admired strength 
and endurance, and largely rejected the goals that most people strive after. Few 
other writers of the 20th century appeared so willing to shed authorial dignity in 
the pursuit of grainy truths. 


a 


| 3) 0g O5 


\ m3 19 lL? : WY 


Wy. a 


The Moon in 1st house Virgo is in mutual reception with Mercury in 11th house 
Cancer. The two share no mutual aspect. The Moon is dark, flanked by multiple 
malefics, and forms only an out-of-sign sextile with Mars. Mercury is ordinary, and 
unaspected by any other planet. 


Post-exchange, if Mercury carries its degree to the 1st house, it becomes isolated. If 
the Moon takes its degree to the 11th, it forms an out-of-sign trine with Mars. 


Only this dark Moon is angular, which perhaps explains his relative obscurity in 
mainstream publishing. Upon exchange, Mercury becomes the angular planet - one 
of the signatures for a writer. 


The 1st house themes emerged in his self-abusive lifestyle, while 11th-house 
themes gradually gained traction through literary recognition by his peers, and the 
ultimate payout of a Hollywood movie. 


Reflective of four planets in his 12th house, Bukowski’s reputation was much 
greater overseas than at home, although he allegedly received a flood of fan mail 
from the insane and incarcerated in America. 


This is a day birth in which Mercury gains modest advantage through minor digni- 
ties and receptions with the Moon. Mercury occupies its own face, while the Moon is 
in both the decan and term of Mercury. 


Since the Moon is dark while Mercury is merely ordinary, this confirms Mercury as 
the control planet in this mutual reception. Its placement in the 11th house speaks 
to his ultimate success as a writer. 


Exchange of 1st and 12th lords 
Parashara says: 


* In the event of the Ascendant lord being placed in the 12th house, the native will 
be bereft of bodily pleasures. If the 12th house is devoid of the conjunction or 
aspect of a benefic planet, he will fruitlessly spend his wealth and be given to 
much anger. (BPHS 26:12) 


* If the 12th lord is situated in the Ascendant, the native will be a spendthrift, be 
weak in constitution, will suffer from phlegmatic disorders, and be devoid of 
wealth and learning. (BPHS 26:133) 


This is a mutual reception wherein the lords are in a 2/12 relationship. Since this 
exchange involves the lord of a moksha house, we get the sense of a life touched by 
themes of sexuality, spirituality, foreign exposure and loss, thus walking a fine line 
between self-sacrifice and self-undoing. 


Indeed, the native is something of a lost soul in search of an identity: seemingly 
devoid of rational intelligence or foresight, lost in dreams or fantasies, subject to 
errant desires. Shunned by others, and perhaps even an object of self-hatred, he can 
become his own worst enemy. 


A pleasure seeker, his health suffers through exhaustion, eg, sexual indulgence, 
lack of sleep, and jet-lag. He spends money on pleasurable indulgences, which may 
prove to be his undoing. Although he attempts to conceal his loose morals in his 
sexual life, he is ultimately revealed, to his potential shame. He travels to foreign 
countries in pursuit of happiness, but may leave empty-handed to wander aim- 
lessly. He seeks moksha in all the wrong places, and can be left with a feeling of 
emptiness, losing himself in the process. 


He cares little about money, isn’t greedy or avaricious, and spends freely or gives 
to charities. He is drawn unconsciously to involvement with ashrams, hospitals, or 
prisons. Hindsight (left eye association) is strong, so he is naturally introspective 
and contemplative. 


Famous people with this exchange 


Chuck Berry, musician; Richard Boone, actor; Tycho Brahe, astronomer; Stephen 
Crane, writer; Xavier Cugat, musician; Divine, transvestite/actress; King Edward VII, 
British royalty; Zelda Fitzgerald, flapper; Michel Foucault, philosopher; Alberto Fuji- 
mori, politician; Giuseppe Garibaldi, militarist; Garrison Keillor, broadcaster/author; 
Rich Little, impersonator; Madonna, singer; Mark McGwire, baseball player; Jean- 
Luc Ponty, musician; John Sayles, film-maker; Angel Thompson, astrologer; Jon 
Voight, actor; Jack Welch, corporate executive. 


Case study 


Madonna (Ciccone), popstar extraordinaire, has made a name for herself largely 
through the clever exhibitionism of her sexuality, whether through provocative 
stage costumes or nude photos of herself in books and magazines. Ironically, while 
succeeding brilliantly in the music industry, she has thus far failed miserably in 
movies. Religious and spiritual issues intermixed with sexuality have been constant 


themes in her life. Her devoutly-Catholic family was shattered when her mother 
died of cancer when Madonna was only six. 


After a number of years during which she was agoraphobic and fearful of her own 
mortality, she burst out of her shell in high school to excel in the perennially pop- 
ular curriculum of sex and drugs and rock'n’roll. Two marriages and one child later, 
she continues to show a marked interest in spiritual matters, studying Kabbalah 
and cultivating the persona of a spiritual seeker. To avoid the fans and paparazzi, 
Madonna has her homes hermetically sealed with guards, hidden cameras and an 
electric-eye gate, thus living in a hybrid ashram/prison. 


8 a 


06° 93 
a Fors a 
| ()>0 49’ i 
| Op!2 = \ | | 
ey l4 ak u { 
Sh; NC 18 15 V3 
03° 06'| 457 
™ (we 03 25 4 
$6 2) Bp 
ot hy 


The Moon in 1st house Leo is in mutual reception with the Sun in 12th house Cancer. 
The two share no mutual aspect. The Sun is ordinary, in wide square to Mars, an 
out-of-sign sextile with Jupiter, and trine to Saturn. The Moon is dark (barely a day 
and a half past new moon), trine to Mars and square to Saturn. 


Post-exchange, if the Sun carries its degree into the 1st house, it is trine Mars, 


square Saturn. If the Moon takes its degree to the 12th, it is square Mars, trine 
Saturn. 


Before and after exchange, both luminaries retain aspects with strong malefics — 
Mars in its own sign, and a bright Saturn. Overall, this invokes “mortal” aspects of 
the 12th house, ie, sexuality, physical and psychological loss, and various forms of 
exile, including residency abroad. 


The 1st house themes emerged via Madonna's fame, while 12th house themes 


played out via sexual showmanship, as well as her later devotion to spirituality, the 
Kabbalah in particular. 


The luminaries reinforce the spirituality themes of the 12th house exchange. In 
Jyotish, if the Sun occupies the last degree of a sign, it’s a mark of potential spiritu- 
ality. Since the Sun represents ego, its transitional state at the end of a sign implies 


a willingness to “Let go and let God...” 

The Moon in the ascendant is associated with a bright Mercury, giving her street 
smarts, media savvy and business acumen. The Sun’s association with 10th lord 
Venus in the 12th supports a career that utilizes sexuality or spirituality. 

This is a day birth where neither planet gains advantage through minor dignities or 
receptions with the other. The Moon is in the triplicity of the Sun, while the Sun is in 
the face of the Moon. 

But because the Sun is at the end of a sign and the Moon is dark, neither can assume 
the role of control planet. In this mutual reception, their coequal exchange epito- 
mizes the themes of Self-realization versus surrender. 


Chapter 7 
Exchanges with the 2nd house lord 


Exchange of 2nd and 3rd lords 
Parashara says: 


* {f the 2nd lord is situated in the 3rd house, the native will be a man of valor, 
be wise, virtuous, lustful and miserly. He will have these effects when the 2nd 
lord is related to a benefic; if related toa malefic, the native will be heterodox. 
(BPHS 26:15) 


* {f the 3rd lord happens to fall in the 2nd house, the native will be corpulent, 
devoid of valor, less disposed to take initiative, unhappy, and will have eyes on 
others’ wives and others’ wealth. (BPHS 26:26) 


This is a mutual reception wherein the lords are in a 2/12 relationship. Since it 
involves the lord of the 3rd, which is a mildly problematic house, we expect a fluc- 
tuating state of difficulty, with some gradual improvement, in family and money 
matters. 


The native lacks courage or experiences frustration of his artistic ambitions, and 
becomes very materialistic instead. He makes money through the application of 
special skills or knowledge, and achieves some status in government or industry. He 
may use his expertise or information to unfair advantage, eg, through insider trad- 
ing, selling tainted goods, etc. 


Family life is somewhat troubled, and his relationship with siblings suffers ups 

and downs, including estrangement and betrayal. Siblings may be very money-ori- 
ented, and yet have difficulties with their finances. Younger siblings suffer losses or 
changes to their circumstances. 


He lacks principles in matters pertaining to wealth, family, knowledge, and sexual 
relations. For example, he doesn’t deal fairly with family members in general. He is 
unscrupulous in financial transactions, and profits unfairly from other people. 


Satisfying his personal desires is more important than adhering to spiritual prin- 
ciples. For example, he might ignore marriage vows in order to satisfy a desire for 
a sexual relationship with someone else. The tendency to bend the law becomes 
especially prevalent when he experiences frustration of his desires and then in des- 
peration seeks to break out of his impasse. 


Famous people with this exchange 


Lauren Bacall, actress; Russell Banks, writer; Shirley Conran, writer; Phyllis Diller, 
comedienne; Errol Flynn, actor; Germaine Greer, writer; Peter Jennings, news an- 
chor; Charles Lindbergh, aviator; Baba Muktananda, spiritual leader; Tim Robbins, 
actor; Albert Schweitzer, humanitarian; Suzanne Somers, actress; Alexis de Toc- 
queville, political scientist; Sarah Vaughn, jazz singer; Oscar Wilde, writer; Steve 
Winwood, musician; Billy Mitchell, militarist. 


Case study 


Errol Flynn, the swashbuckling actor of adventure films, had a flamboyant private 
life indulging his lifelong passions for drinking, fighting and sex on boats. A ram- 
bunctious child with an impressive vocabulary, the “Tasmanian Devil” was thrown 
out of every school he attended. His father was a renowned zoologist who brought 
the first platypus to England, and Flynn grew up with a great love of the sea, spend- 
ing his time between movies sailing around the world. Quoted as saying he liked his 
whiskey old and his women young, his love life was notorious — married three times, 
twice charged with rape, and source of the sexual catch-phrase “In like Flynn”. 


A legendary drinker, he eventually worked his way up to narcotics. Aside from act- 
ing, via which he burst into public view like a meteor and then burned out as quickly 
seven years later, his other passion was writing. He’d been a young correspondent 
for an Australian newspaper, and later published two novels and an autobiography. 
Despite his virile image, he was disqualified from WW2 military service because of 
a weak heart, from which he died at age 50 in the arms of his 17-year-old girlfriend. 


Vee 


MR ay. 


ce, Vv 
at 23 
os’ . 1° 
‘@) 
z 2s 50’ - 
| 
| | 
| | yy 17 | 
cy Asc /m 
aie sy 
23 19' / 
$3 fe Oe pp 2 
8 Op, 05 19 96 
O93 
I ~@Q_ 


Mercury in 2nd house Taurus is in mutual reception with Venus in 3rd house Gemini. 
The two share no mutual aspect. Mercury is bright, square Mars and sextile Saturn 
while sitting on the nodal axis. Venus is ordinary, conjunct the Moon, sextile Jupiter 
and trine Mars. 


Post-exchange, if Mercury carries its degree into the 3rd house, it conjoins the 
Moon, squares Saturn and trines Mars. If Venus takes its degree to the 2nd, it forms 
a T-Square with Mars and Jupiter while associating with the nodal axis. 


Before and after exchange, both planets retain aspects with Mars. Since it is lord of 
both the 1st and 8th houses, this provokes sexual adventures. 
Mercury and Venus are mutual friends, so we get a sense of playful activity, stimu- 


lated and supported by partners-in-crime. Although free of combustion, Venus with 
the dark Moon in Gemini is symptomatic of Flynn’s weakness for women in general 


and girls in particular. 


With Venus and both luminaries in the 3rd house (kama houses 3-7-11 are inclined 
toward pursuit of desires), we see his fondness for the literary arts, as well as the 
promise and pitfalls of a life filled with adventures of all kinds. 


This is a night birth, where Venus gains some advantage via minor dignities and re- 
ceptions with its exchange partner. Venus is in the triplicity of Mercury but occupies 
its own decan and term. Thus, Venus becomes the control planet in this mutual re- 
ception. Its placement in the 3rd house made the pursuit of pleasure a life theme. 


Exchange of 2nd and 4th lords 
Parashara says: 


* In case the 2nd lord occupies the 4th house, the native is endowed with all kinds 
of wealth. If he is in conjunction with Jupiter or in his exaltation sign, the native 
will be equal to a king. (BPHS 26:16) 


* Should the 4th lord occupy the 2nd house, the native will enjoy pleasures, be 
blessed with all kinds of wealth, family life and honor, and be adventurous. He 
will be cunning and deceptive in disposition. (BPHS 26:38) 


This is a mutual reception wherein the lords are in a 3/11 relationship. With this 
configuration, we expect a certain flow or facilitation of matters related to family, 
money, property, vehicles and education. 


The native is devoted to acquiring knowledge, will receive one or more degrees, and 
may be involved in the fields of education or psychology. Academically-inclined, he 
is a visual learner, and learns best by seeing things. 


He is close to his mother and enjoys financial benefits through her. She in turn en- 
joys gains through her own efforts or good fortune. His happiness is strongly linked 
to family, whether immediate or extended. In lieu of strong family attachments, 

he belongs to a community, or sangha, for the emotional or psychological comfort 
such a group provides. 


His family is a source of wealth, particularly through property. He acquires prop- 
erties and vehicles, and may be involved in businesses related to the same. He is 
attracted to occupations in real estate, farming, mining, house construction, hotel 
management, car manufacturing or sales. He may invest in luxury items such as an- 
tique furniture, cars, paintings, etc. 


Famous people with this exchange 


Anthony Armstrong-Jones, British royalty in-law; Alexander Graham Bell, inventor; 
Johannes Brahms, composer; Merle Haggard, musician; Anthony Hopkins, actor; 
Robbie Krieger, musician; Mary McFadden, designer; Julia Roberts, actress; George 
C. Scott, actor; Simone Simon, actress; Barbra Streisand, entertainer; Louis Vuitton, 
designer; Colleen McCullough, writer; Evelyn Waugh, writer. 


Case study 


Alexander Graham Bell, inventor of the telephone, was born into a family fascinated 
with communication. His grandfather was an eminent elocutionist, and his father 
was a speech pathologist who developed the first international phonetic alphabet. 
His mother, learning piano despite her deafness, inspired Bell’s life-long desire to 
help the deaf and the mute. 


As a teenager, he constructed a “speaking machine” with a mouth, an articulated 
tongue and bellow lungs that could make human sounds. By age 16 he was teaching 
music and elocution at a boys’ school, and furthering his father’s work in “visible 
speech” techniques. This eventually brought him to the Boston School for Deaf 
Mutes, where he met first his future wife and later his famous protégée Helen 
Keller. 


Although his profound scientific curiosity resulted in his inventing the telephone, 
for which he became rich and famous, he also developed technologies anticipating 
fiber-optics communications, tape and CD recordings, and the iron lung. In his later 
years, he developed vehicle prototypes, including giant tetrahedral kites, an air- 
plane, and a hydrofoil that set a world speed record that stood for 44 years. 


i | : J. \ =9 3) 


ae = /16' 03 


02’ \ 
iN S) 
i | | 
| 12 40 [yea] 
| Ys 79 23 = 
4 O71 @ 
~t 09" i 
Asc-o3 “0 
o es 16 > 
fe) 29, =o 
yt UG 16 AL 


Venus in 2nd house Pisces is in mutual reception with Jupiter in 4th house Taurus. 
Both are benefics joined by a very wide sextile. Venus is exalted, associated with 
Mercury and opposite the Moon. Jupiter is ordinary and square to both the Sun and 
a strong Saturn. 


Post-exchange, if Venus carries its degree into the 4th house, it is trine the Moon, 
sextile Mercury and square Saturn. If Jupiter takes its degree to the 2nd, it squares 
Mars. 


Before or after exchange, neither planet comes close enough in degree to become 
tainted by the nodal axis. Four planets and the nodes in mutable signs suggest the 
diversity of his inventive nature. 


The 2nd house themes emerged via his lifelong interest in speech and elocution, 
while the 4th house was evidenced in his later work on vehicular prototypes. 


This is a day birth wherein Jupiter gains modestly through minor dignities and 
receptions with Venus. Both Jupiter and Venus are in terms of Jupiter. Jupiter is in 
the triplicity of Venus, while Venus is in a decan of Jupiter. 


Although this acknowledges Jupiter's candidacy, if we return to primary dignities, 
we note that Venus is exalted while Jupiter is just ordinary. Thus, Venus is the con- 
trol planet for this mutual reception. Its placement in the 2nd house evokes the 
theme of speech, to which cause much of Bell's inventive genius was applied. 


Exchange of 2nd and Sth lords 
Parashara says: 


* If the 2nd lord is situated in the 5th house, the native will be wealthy. His son 
will also be intent on earning wealth. (BPHS 26:17) 


* If the Sth lord occupies the 2nd house, the native will have the blessing of having 
many sons and wealth. He will be supporter of his family, honorable, be at- 
tached to his wife, and be famous in the world. (BPHS 26:50) 


This is a mutual reception wherein the lords are in a 4/10 relationship from succe- 
dent houses. The native is naturally disposed towards intellectual pursuits, and is 
both an avid student and a capable teacher. 


He has literary skills, a good vocabulary, and a good speaking or singing voice. 
Therefore, he could make a good orator, writer or politician. Furthermore, a willing- 
ness to lend dramatic effect to whatever he does could make this person a popular 
entertainer. 


He may also be spiritually inclined, with an interest in studying and meditating 
upon sacred works, and the ability to memorize and recite long passages of scrip- 
tures. He could also be involved in learning or teaching mantra and meditation 
techniques. 


The native comes from a large family, to which he is attached. The family is fortu- 
nate in money matters, values education, and is intellectually inclined. The native 
is thoughtful about money, and generally shrewd in investments. The native's chil- 
dren are dedicated students, earn handsome salaries, and establish themselves with 
good professions and reputations. 


Famous people with this exchange 


Marshall Appelwhite, cult leader; André Breton, surrealist; Catherine the Great, 
empress; Wes Craven, director; A.J. Cronin, writer; Indira Gandhi, politician; Harper 
Lee, writer; Bernard Montgomery, militarist; Robert Ripley, illustrator; Willy Shoe- 
maker, jockey; Bruce Willis, actor; Christian Wirth, Nazi. 


Case study 


Catherine the Great, who was born a German princess but married into Russian 
royalty, transformed her nation from a backwater country into a European power. 
Beautiful, intelligent and ambitious, she quickly learned Russian, joined the Ortho- 
dox Church and educated herself via extensive reading. Her husband Peter III was an 
ugly man and incompetent ruler, eventually deposed and executed by Catherine's 
political allies. Although she earned a reputation for promiscuity via multiple love 
affairs with her officers and heads of state, her real achievement was reform. She 
read everything from Plato to Voltaire, and corresponded with many leading Euro- 
pean intellectuals of the day. 


Once in power, she transformed her adopted country in every way possible — intro- 
ducing new agricultural techniques in farming regions, building roads and bridges, 
creating schools of medicine and mining, facilitating factory start-ups, importing 
British science and technology, abolishing export duties, conducting mapping and 


census, building hospitals and schools, amassing art collections and promoting 
Russian culture. The only ambition she failed to realize in her 34-year reign was the 
abolition of serfdom, a political move that might have destabilized the country that 
she'd worked so hard to change. 

Ww o= 


adalat 


Jupiter in Sth house Gemini is in mutual reception with Mercury in 2nd house 
Pisces. The two share no mutual aspect. Both are in detriment. Mercury is debili- 
tated and forms out-of-sign sextiles with the Moon and Venus. Jupiter is otherwise 
ordinary, in sextile with a strong Mars and trine to a strong Saturn. 


Post-exchange, if Mercury carries its degree into the 5th house, it forms a sextile 
with the strong Sun. If Jupiter takes its degree to the 2nd, its only aspect would be a 
wide square with the Moon. 


Mercury and Jupiter are both associated with matters of the intellect. Cultured, 
intelligent, studious and charming (5th house), Catherine was also ambitious, cruel, 
egotistical and domineering. A passionate woman, she had a series of at least 22 
young lovers. By age 67, she had lost all her teeth (2nd house) and was plagued by 
debilitating varicose veins. 


This is a night birth where neither planet gains much through minor dignities or 
receptions with its exchange partner. Jupiter is in the triplicity of Mercury but occu- 
pies its own term. 


Meanwhile, Mercury is debilitated (and in detriment) while Jupiter is merely in 
detriment. Further note that Jupiter is associated with benefics Venus and the 
Moon, meanwhile enjoying sextiles and trines from strong planets. Mercury, on the 
other hand, is flanked by strong malefics. 


Thus, we may safely judge Jupiter the control planet for this mutual reception. Its 
placement in the 5th house remains the signature of Catherine's intelligence and 
her intellectual reformation of Russia. 


Exchange of 2nd and 6th lords 
Parashara says: 


* Should the 2nd lord occupy the 6th house and be in conjunction with a benefic, 
the native will gain wealth through his enemies; if with a malefic, the native 
will have loss through his enemies and be weak-thighed. (BPHS 26:18) 


* tn case the 6th lord has fallen in the 2nd house, the native will be adventurous, 
illustrious in his family, and he will live in alien countries or foreign lands, be 
happy, be a good speaker, and be always interested in his own work. (BPHS 
26:62) 


This is a mutual reception wherein the lords are in a 5/9 relationship from houses 
associated with security, ie, money, health and employment. Although the 6th is a 
house of conflict, its association with competition also implies a situation amenable 
to improvement over time. 


The native experiences money problems of one kind or another through poor saving 
habits, theft, unpaid loans, damaged goods, lawsuits, lost items, and/or expensive 
health care. Health concerns include bad teeth, bad breath, poor vision, allergies, 
food poisoning, bad diet, substance abuse and thyroid problems. 


Similarly, the native may have problems with learning, retaining or expressing 
ideas, eg, poor study habits or memory, lack of imagination, foul language, speech 
impediment, poor vocabulary, or lack of oratorical skills. 


The native’s spouse will have poor health. (The 7th is the spouse, so if we rotate the 
chart to adopt its perspective, the 2nd is the 8th from the spouse, and the 6th is 
the 12th from the spouse; therefore, both are trik lords from the perspective of the 
spouse.) Maternal uncles are likely to undertake long journeys. 


He gains employment through the service trades, especially those related to health, 
animals, the workplace, and the environment. Someone in the family may also be 
employed in health care, particularly veterinary science. 


Famous people with this exchange 


Kareem Abdul-Jabbar, basketball star; Prince Albert, British royalty; Carol Burnett, 
comedienne; Ram Dass, spiritual author; Situ Rimpoche, spiritual leader; Dean 
Stockwell, actor; Gene Tunney, boxer; Mike Wallace, TV personality. 


Case study 


Ram Dass, born as Richard Alpert, studied psychology with a specialization in 
human motivation and personality development. He served on the faculties at 
Stanford, the University of California, and Harvard University. While at Harvard, his 
explorations of human consciousness led him to collaborate with Timothy Leary, 
Aldous Huxley and Allen Ginsberg, in using LSD. Because of this controversial re- 
search, he was subsequently fired from Harvard. 


After a trip to India during which he met his guru, he was renamed Ram Dass, 
“Servant of God”, and changed his life direction to pursue a wide range of spiritual 
practices, becoming involved in many humanitarian projects, including agricultural 
reform and treatment of blindness in third world countries. He has written several 


books, the most notable of which was the bestseller Be Here Now, a classic spiritual 
guide. In 1997, he suffered a left-brain hemorrhage that paralyzed much of the 
right side of his body, but he continues to make public appearances. 


Tig 
Mars in 2nd house Cancer is in mutual reception with the Moon in 6th house Scor- 


pio. The two are in trine. Mars is debilitated and square to Mercury. The Moon is also 
debilitated, exactly square Venus and in a wide trine with the Sun. 


Post-exchange, if Mars carries its degree into the 6th house, it is square Venus. If the 
Moon takes its degree to the 2nd, it squares Mercury and trines the Sun. 


Although the exchange of these two house lords encourages the pursuit of security 
as a life goal, it was not Alpert’s own security but that of the disenfranchised that 
seemed to motivate his humanitarian actions. Since both planets are in water signs, 
we might hypothesize that the spiritual resolution of this double-debilitation re- 
quired some form of bhakti yoga. 


Although he gained fame and notoriety for his use, or substance abuse (2nd house), 
of psychedelics, Ram Dass did go on to author at least three books on spirituality. 
Interestingly enough for someone with a 6th house exchange, his adopted name 
Ram Dass means “servant to Lord Ram.” He has also worked as an activist for Seva 
Foundation, whose causes include environmental (6th house) issues, and fighting 
blindness (2nd house) in third world countries. 


This is a day birth wherein Mars has gained only modest advantage through minor 
receptions with its exchange partner. Both Moon and Mars are in triplicities of Mars, 
while Mars occupies a decan of the Moon. 


With neither planet assuming clear control over the exchange, the themes of au- 
thorship and service remain coequals as per the 2nd/6th-house associations of this 
mutual reception. 


Exchange of 2nd and 7th lords 
Parashara says: 


* In the event of the 2nd lord falling in the 7th house, the native will be apt to 
traverse another’s wife and be a physician. If the 2nd lord in the 7th house is 
in conjunction with or is aspected by a malefic, his wife will be a harlot. (BPHS 
26:19) 


* If the 7th lord is placed in the 2nd house, the native will have many wives, will 
gain wealth through his wife and will be of procrastinating nature. (BPHS 
26:74) 


This is a mutual reception wherein the lords are in a 6/8 relationship from family/ 
relationship houses. For this combination, we generally expect mixed reviews 
within a marital context, especially wherein the partners do not see “eye-to-eye” or 
one of then “has eyes for another”. 


The native gains through marriage, and enjoys a good family life, but has difficulty 
maintaining a monogamous relationship. He experiences strong attractions to 
members of the opposite sex, such that personal relationships tend to be sexually- 
motivated. Relationship with in-laws may thus be adversely affected. 


His spouse is a dominant personality and may be equally suspect in terms of 
needing to explore relationships outside the marriage. His spouse suffers mentally, 
emotionally or physically, possibly as a consequence of a turbulent marital life, and 
may experience premature illness or death. 


Business and financial relationships are carried out at a distance, via the agency of 
foreign partners, or in the form of travel to foreign countries. Whatever money he 
earns is shared with his partner. 


Second marriages would be favored during periods when the two lords of the ex- 
change are powerful. 


Famous people with this exchange 


Dino de Laurentis, producer; Hans Eysenck, psychologist/astrologer; Gennifer Flow- 
ers, political mistress; Daryl Hannah, actress; Jean Harlow, actress; Andy Kaufman, 
actor; Jack Kerouac, writer; Oliver North, patriot; Walter Schirra, astronaut; Alicia 
Silverstone, actress. 


Case study 


Jack Kerouac, a “solitary crazy Catholic mystic”, was a founding member of the 
“Beat Generation”, a term he coined. His older brother died at age nine, and his 
father died an alcoholic. Although Kerouac won a football scholarship to Cotumbia, 
he dropped out and hit the road, crisscrossing the continent several times, writing 
about his experiences and picking up bad habits along the way, mainly heavy drink- 
ing and Benzedrine use. He wrote his famous novel, On the Road, in three coffee-fu- 
eled weeks, and another novel, The Subterraneans, in a Benzedrine-powered rush of 
just three days. Along with fellow beatniks Allen Ginsberg and William Burroughs, 
he forged new literary territory. 


Success came late, and he had trouble dealing with both his new-found fame and 


the critics who disliked a prose style that violated so many rules of syntax and 
grammar. Although repeatedly drawn into relationships, none lasted long, and his 
two marriages ended in divorce. In later years, he became a recluse, living with his 
mother and playing solitary card games he'd invented to simulate baseball and 
football games. He died of cirrhosis of the liver at age 47, leaving an estate of less 
than $100. 


b ee - 
ise 23 18 
! i hg 
TY. 4B og ry 
ay 
Saturn in 2nd house Virgo is in mutual reception with Mercury in 7th house 
Aquarius. The two share no mutual aspect. Saturn is bright, opposed an exalted 


Venus, sextile a strong Mars and afflicted by the nodal axis. Mercury is ordinary and 
unaspected. 


Post-exchange, if Saturn carries its degree into the 7th house, it is square Mars and 
widely opposed the full Moon. If Mercury takes its degree to the 2nd, it forms an ap- 
plying opposition to exalted Venus. 


Both Mercury and Saturn are considered to be neuter or sex-less planets (Mercury 
too “young” and Saturn too “old"”), which may reflect on Kerouac’s sexual ambiva- 
lence. Themes of the 2nd and 7th houses played out in authorship, substance abuse, 
troubled family life, wandering travel and dysfunctional relationships. 


Best known for his book, The Dharma Bums, Kerouac was prolific and authored 21 
books in all. With the majority of his planets forming an axis through his 2nd/8th 
houses, he suffered from both alcoholism and methedrine abuse. He was discharged 
from the merchant marine for psychiatric reasons, and was briefly jailed in con- 
nection with a murder. Bisexual, he married three times, carried a torch for fellow 
beatnik Neal Cassady, and meticulously kept an archive of every sexual experience 
he had with a woman. 


This is a day birth, wherein Saturn gains all the advantage through minor forms of 
dignity and reception with its exchange partner. Saturn is in its own decan, while 


Mercury is in a triplicity, term and decan of Saturn. 


Thus, Saturn becomes the control planet for this mutual reception, and its mixed 
association with north node Rahu and a bright Jupiter in the 2nd house lent fuel to 
both his prolific writing and substance abuse. 


Exchange of 2nd and 8th lords 
Parashara says: 


* Should the 2nd lord happen to be placed in the 8th house, the native is endowed 
with abundant land wealth, but he will have little marital felicity and be bereft 
of happiness through elder brother. (BPHS 26:20) 


* If the 8th lord is placed in the 2nd house, the native will be devoid of physical 
vigor, will possess little wealth, and will not regain lost wealth. (BPHS 26:86) 


This is a mutual reception wherein the lords are in a 7/7 relationship across succe- 
dent houses. This “entrainment” through mutual aspect also serves to strengthen 
(and aggravate) the significations of the exchange. 


Because the respective lords of one’s own money versus another’s money are being 
exchanged, the notion of currency or financial exchange is one interpretation. This 

could manifest in a constructive manner, eg, via a banker or investment broker who 
manages other people's money or, less constructively, as a thief or swindler. 


In a similar vein, we could also interpret the exchange in light of education or 
knowledge. Acquired knowledge may be specialized, and transmitted via an oral 
tradition in such areas as mysticism, the occult, or the alternative healing arts. 
For example, this could appear in the chart of a scholar of antiquities, a linguist, 
an occultist, or a practitioner of Jyotish, Ayurveda, Shiatsu or Traditional Chinese 
Medicine. 


The native may have unexpected reversals, ie, things going from good to bad, or 
vice versa, in matters affecting both the oral cavity and the vision. For example, lin- 
guistic skills versus speech impediments, oratorical abilities versus foul language, 
balanced diet versus substance abuse, clear versus blurry vision. 


Financial affairs may also go through ups and downs - there could be inheritances 
and gains from insurance, but also gambling, irrecoverable business losses, de- 
mands for alimony, and chronic indebtedness. 


By the same token, family life may exhibit a cycle of peaks and troughs, including 
financial crises that affect the family fortunes, or highly-charged emotional situa- 
tions that challenge family values. 


Famous people with this exchange 


Charles Addams, cartoonist; Sam Cooke, performer; Billy Corgan, musician; Sir 
Arthur Conan Doyle, writer; Robert Duvall, actor; Peter Gabriel, musician; Franz 
Joseph Haydn, composer; Manik Chand Jain, astrologer; Jimmy Page, musician; 
George Lincoln Rockwell, American Nazi; Linda Ronstadt, singer; Cheryl Tiegs, 
model. 


Case study 


Jimmy Page, one of the greatest rock guitarists of all time, originally wanted to be a 
biotogical researcher but left school at age 16 to pursue music. In 1968 he founded 
Led Zeppelin, which became one of the biggest rock bands in the world, while de- 
veloping a reputation for excess and debauchery: trashed hotel rooms, kinky sex 
and heavy use of drugs and alcohol. For several years, Page was a regular heroin 


user. 


Fascinated with the occult, Page owned an occult bookstore and purchased the 
former rural retreat of Aleister Crowley (notorious occultist and designer of the 
Thoth tarot deck) as one of his homes. His arcane interests were reflected via as- 
trological symbols in the band’s album covers and stage costumes. One biographer 
speculated Page had made a pact with the Devil to ensure Led Zep’s success, and 
one interpretation of “Stairway to Heaven” claimed it contained satanic reverse- 
audio messages. An avid collector, Page owns roughly 1500 guitars. 


In recent years he’s been involved in various charity concerts and charity work, par- 
ticularly the Action for Brazil's Children Trust, for which he was awarded the Order 
of the British Empire in 2005. 


Ty | op 


— 
—_ 
if 
i) 
+ 
_ 
_ 


Venus in 2nd house Scorpio is in mutual reception with Mars in 8th house Taurus. 
Both are in detriment. Ascendant lord Venus is in close opposition with Mars, which 
is bright. Contrary to what some traditional authors might say, this mutual aspect 
generates strength rather than weakness in the mutual reception. 


Post-exchange, since the two planets are relatively close in degree, carrying their 
own degrees to the other house changes nothing — they remain aspected only to 
each other, since the degree position of Jupiter technically denies their formation of 
a T-Square. 


The negative association of a strong Saturn on this exchange axis skewed Page into 
dark territory — his heroin addiction, his fascination with the occult, and some un- 
substantiated rumors about sex with juvenite girls. On the plus side, however, he 
was well-educated and soft-spoken, and created a massive transfer of wealth from 
pop fans into the bank accounts of Led Zeppelin. Equally positive, he turned his own 
significant wealth back into several charities. 


Interestingly enough, Page is one of the relatively few people (3% of the popula- 


tion) who have two mutual receptions in his chart, the second being an exchange 
between the Sun and Jupiter, his 3rd and 11th lords. Although discussed in greater 
detail in the relevant section, that combination is indicative of financial or so- 

cial (11th house) success through sports or the arts (3rd house), a feat that Page 
achieved via his mastery of the guitar. 

This is a night birth, wherein Mars gains modest advantage via minor reception with 
its exchange partner. Venus is in a triplicity of Mars. This only corroborates what 
was noted earlier - Mars being stronger by virtue of its brightness during retrogres- 
sion. This confirms it as the control planet for this mutual reception. 

The placement of Mars in the 8th house simply recalls Page’s fascination with the 
occult in his younger years, followed by his charity work in his mature years. 


Exchange of 2nd and Sth lords 
Parashara says: 


* Should the 2nd lord be placed in the 9th house, the native will be wealthy, 
diligent and skillful. He remains sickly in childhood but happy in the remaining 
years of life. He visits shrines and observes religious rites, etc. (BPHS 26:21) 


* Should the 9th lord be situated in the 2nd house, the native will be learned, 
popular, wealthy, lustful, and be blessed with happiness through sons and wife. 
(BPHS 26:98) 


This is a mutual reception wherein these two positive house lords are in a 6/8 rela- 
tionship. The native is born with a silver spoon in his mouth, or may be considered 
“silver-tongued”. His family is blessed with good education and wealth. He receives 
money from foreign sources and conveyances. 


His father is affiliated with universities, courts of law or the government. Because 
the exchanging lords are in a 6/8 relationship, his father may be afflicted with some 
common ailment or disease, or may experience a fluctuating state of employment. 


The native tends to speak the truth, or dispenses wisdom, such as would a professor, 
author, orator or counselor. He often manifests other good qualities associated with 
the mouth, eg, eloquent speech, good vocabulary, fine teeth, good singing voice, 
and/or good diet. 


He travels in pursuit of his education, favoring subjects such as finance, mathemat- 
ics, languages and education. He receives formal instruction from a teacher or guru 
who is a good orator and an expert in classical works or scriptures. 


Famous people with this exchange 


Giulio Andreotti, politician; Drew Barrymore, actress; John Belushi, comedian; Cé- 
line Dion, singer; Hans Holzer, occult writer; Edna St-Vincent Millay, poet; Princess 
Nour Pahlavi, Iranian royalty; William Penn, colonist; Rafael Sabatini, novelist; 
Gilles Villeneuve, race-car driver; Kanye West, musician. 


Case study 


Céline Dion, popstar diva, was born into a highly musical family, the youngest of 14 
children, with a strong attachment to her father. She began performing in her par- 
ents’ piano bar at five years old and by age 17 had emerged as an international tal- 
ent. Her manager, who later became her husband, mortgaged his house to produce 
her first album. Over the years, she racked up one industry award after another and 
broke records for albums sold, winning Oscars for both Beauty and the Beast and 
Titanic soundtracks, the latter album becoming the top-selling soundtrack album 
of all time. In total, Dion has sold over 200 million albums worldwide. In addition, 
she performed under contract at Caesar’s Palace in Las Vegas for a five-year stint re- 
putedly worth over $200 million. 


A supporter of charities, financially generous with her original family, and devoted 
to her spouse and children, she remains a shining inspiration to every singer with a 
dream. Along the way, there have been a few legal complications, notably a lawsuit 
against the National Enquirer, and another involving her husband's alleged sexual 


harassment of a Vegas employee, both suits successfully dismissed. 


DI 2S 
e) J 06 6 OG Ww 
26" IX F169 a5 ro} 


SJ} 25 ny 


a 
ie: 


Jupiter in 2nd house Leo is in mutual reception with the Sun in 9th house Pisces. 
The two share no mutual aspect. Jupiter is bright and in trine with the Moon and a 
strong Mars from the 10th. The Sun is ordinary, conjunct Saturn but in aspect with 
no other planet. 


Post-exchange, if Jupiter carries its degree into the 9th house, it is unaspected. If 
the Sun takes its degree to the 2nd, it forms only wide oppositions to benefics Mer- 
cury and Venus. 


2nd-house themes played out in several ways — her huge family of 13 siblings, her 
great vocal talent with its five-octave range, and her subsequent wealth as a pop 
diva. 


9th-house themes were evident via the formative relationship with her musical 
father (whose generic significator is the Sun), and a father-figure in a husband (Sun 
with 7th lord Saturn) 26 years her senior. 


Although three malefics in the 9th house have threatened court cases, this exchange 
has also helped to resolve them. She successfully sued The National Enquirer $20 
million for falsely stating at one point that she was pregnant with twins. 


With the exchange of 2nd and 9th lords, she’s been very generous with her family, 
buying houses for her parents, giving her siblings large sums of money, and em- 
ploying many among them. The exchange supports her healthy diet (2nd), for she 
neither drinks nor smokes, and languages, having studied Berlitz English to prepare 
for the American pop market. She also owns a chain of restaurants in Quebec, and 
has her own lines of eye-wear and perfume, all 2nd-house significations. 


This is a day birth, wherein the Sun extracts some marginal advantage through 
minor receptions with its exchange partner. Jupiter is in both a triplicity and decan 
of the Sun, while the Sun occupies the face of Jupiter. 


However, Jupiter remains the stronger of the two. It is bright, and in trines with 
ascendant lord Moon and a strong Mars. Meanwhile, the Sun is afflicted by associa- 
tion with the nodal axis and its enemy Saturn. This positions Jupiter as the control 
planet for this mutual reception. 

Jupiter's placement in the 2nd house repeats the major themes of Dion’s life - fam- 
ily, voice and the great wealth that sprang from her singing. 


Exchange of 2nd and 10th lords 
Parashara says: 


* In case the 2nd lord is situated in the 10th house, the native will be libidinous, 
honorable and learned, will have many wives but will be bereft of filial happi- 
ness. (BPHS 26:22) 


* |f the 10th lord occupies the 2nd house, the native will be wealthy, virtuous, 
honored by the King (or the Government), charitable and endowed with paternal 
and other bliss. (BPHS 26:110) 


This is a mutual reception wherein the lords are in a 5/9 relationship from “secu- 
rity” houses of wealth and status. The native's family is wealthy, and has a repu- 
tation built on financial or business success. If one of the planets involved is slow- 
moving, eg, Jupiter or Saturn, it could be old money, but if they are fast, eg, the 
Moon or Mercury, it’s more likely to be new money. 


The native gets a practical education that has currency in society. He maintains his 
family wealth, and grows his own capital by earning a good income from profession 
or business. If the planets in exchange are benefics, the earnings are through honest 
means; if malefics, then underhanded. 


He achieves considerable status in his community, and has a voice in their assembly. 
He has a face that is recognizable and/or attractive to the public. He has the oppor- 
tunity to speak in public, or things that he says privately become public. If the plan- 
ets in exchange are benefics, he uses his authority wisely; if malefics, he is corrupt 
and abuses his authority. Similarly, an exchange of benefics suggests spoken truth 
and wisdom, while malefics mean cheap talk and lies. 


This combination favors careers in finance, precious metals, restaurants, dentistry, 
cosmetics, nutrition and currency exchange. But there is also an intellectual aspect 
to the same combination, providing for outlets through public speaking, speech 
therapy, education or writing. 


Famous people with this exchange 


Sri Meher Baba, spiritual leader; Rick Danko, musician; Benny Hill, comedian; Willie 
Nelson, singer; Nityananda, holy man; Bangalore Rao, astrologer; Brad Steiger, 
occult writer; Julius Streicher, Nazi publisher; Maurice Utrillo, artist; Jules Verne, 
writer; Swami Vivekananda, spiritual leader. 


Case study 


Sri Meher Baba, dubbed “The Awakener”, the Avatar of Kali Yuga, was initiated 

at age 20 into god-realization by the female saint Hazrat Babajan. After a period 
of intense spiritual activity, he undertook a vow of silence that lasted almost 30 
years. Despite his silence, he served the needs of humanity on a material as well as 
a spiritual level by establishing schools and hospitals, personally caring for lepers, 
the mad and religious ecstatics. Through the medium of gestures and an alphabet 
board, he dictated several books and spiritual messages to his followers. 


He traveled widely in India and Pakistan, and made 13 trips to the West, during 
which he made many notable converts among cultural icons of the day, includ- 


ing Pete Townshend of the Who, and other artists. Throughout the 60s, he spoke 
widely about the dangers of drugs on a physical, psychological and spiritual level. 
Although concerned about the materialism of the age, one of his main teachings 
was that the material and spiritual must go hand in hand, that one cannot stay in a 
spiritual retreat one’s whole life, but that God must be found in the world, through 
service and selfless action. 


om _ 
PR OM 
ny 0 c SJ) 
eol'| 38 
x CO. 
Sina a 
| | | | 
| | | 
\ 12 02 i | 
V3, Asc Tl 
25! 
00 Qo = 


Venus in 2nd house Aquarius is in mutual reception with Saturn in 10th house Libra. 
Linked by a close trine, these two mutual friends are both bright and therefore pow- 
erful. The ascendant lord Saturn is exalted and elevated with the Moon. Venus is 
square to Jupiter but far enough from the Sun to escape combustion. 


Post-exchange, since the two planets are close in degree, they merely swap their 
associations and aspects with other planets, although Saturn in the 2nd house 
(speech) with its enemy the Sun now becomes symbolic of his lengthy vow of 
silence. 


The 2nd house governs what goes in and out of the mouth. As such, it rules food and 
drink, but also voice and its fluency, by which we mean both physical and mental 
qualities. Fluent in several languages, Baba spoke out against drugs. He was also a 
poet and multi-instrumentalist with an excellent singing voice. 


The 10th house is a place of karma, and its exchange of lords with the 2nd house 
encouraged Baba’s fasting and silence. In the process, he began his practice of de- 
manding strict discipline and obedience from his disciples. Do as ! say, and doas! 
do. 


This is a night birth wherein Saturn gains modest advantage over Venus though 
minor dignities and receptions with its exchange partner. Venus and Saturn are 
both in terms of Saturn. Venus occupies its own face. Venus is in a decan of Saturn 
while Saturn is in a decan of Venus. 


This strengthening of Saturn via minor dignities merely echoes its dominance as 
noted earlier, ie, exaltation and brightness. Consequently, Saturn is judged the con- 
trol planet of the mutual reception. Its status in the 10th is representative of his en- 
during reputation as a guru of asceticism and silence. 


Exchange of 2nd and 11th lords 
Parashara says: 


* Should the 2nd lord be in the 11th house, the native will enjoy all kinds of 
wealth and gains, will be ever diligent, honorable and famous. (BPHS 26:23) 


* Should the 11th lord be placed in the 2nd house, the native will be endowed with 
all kinds of wealth and all kinds of accomplishments, be charitable, religious 
and always happy. (BPHS 26:122) 


This is a mutual reception where the lords are in a 4/10 relationship from money 
houses. With this pattern, we expect the exchange to manifest positive results 
within the contexts of family, education and wealth. 


The native’s family, especially his elder siblings, and paternal aunts and uncles, will 
be wealthy and well-educated. One or the other of these is likely to be involved ina 
business having to do with banking or finance. 


He makes good money in business, and it seems that money is always flowing in his 
direction. Even his money is working to make more money through dividend-paying 
equity investments and interest-bearing instruments such as bonds. Furthermore, 
his financial fortunes improve after marriage. 


His friends become part of his extended family. He has an active social conscience, 
and lives his life accordingly. He joins community groups or social networks. He 
belongs to a sangha or is associated with some group whose common interests in- 
clude investment, education, nutrition, politics, entertainment, public speaking or 
singing. 

He may receive awards, honors or social distinctions accompanied by financial 
prizes. 


Famous people with this exchange 


Bjorn Borg, tennis player; William Jennings Bryan, politician; Carrie Fisher, actress/ 
writer; Gustave Flaubert, writer; Joan Grant, writer; James Herbert, writer; David 
Janssen, actor; Curt Jurgens, actor; Caroline Kennedy, American “royalty”; Patricia 
Krenwinkle, cult killer; Maurice Maeterlinck, philosopher; Ross Macdonald, writer; 
Wayne Newton, entertainer; Joe Pesci, actor; Oscar Pistorius, paralympic athlete; 
Pete Rose, baseball player; Frank Sinatra, entertainer; Oprah Winfrey, talk show 
hostess. 


Case study 


Oprah Winfrey, talk show host, has been dubbed the “Queen of all Media” and is, 
according to some, the most influential woman in the world. Ranked the richest 
African-American of the 20th century, America’s only black billionaire was born into 
poverty to a single teenage mother. She experienced considerable hardship in her 
childhood, getting raped at age nine, becoming pregnant at 14, and losing her only 
son in infancy. During high school she landed a job in radio, went on at age 19 to co- 
anchor local news, and subsequently graduated to daytime talk shows. The rest is 
history. 


Oprah had three half-siblings, one of whom died of cocaine abuse, another put up 


for a adoption, and a third dead of AIDS. Nicknamed “the Preacher” because of her 
ability as a child to recite Bible verses, she won an oratory contest in high school 
that earned her a full university scholarship. She has co-authored five books and 
played in more than a dozen movies. She is an active philanthropist and a major 
social influence, with the power to turn books into bestsellers and political endorse- 
ments into presidential candidates. 


Venus in 2nd house Capricorn is in mutual reception with Saturn in 11th house 
Libra. The two planets are mutual friends in money houses, linked by a partile 
(Odeg11min) square. Saturn is exalted and square the Sun. Venus is totally combust, 
sextile the Moon and in a very wide applying trine to Jupiter. 


Because their degrees are virtually identical, post-exchange Saturn also becomes 
totally combust, a condition known as cazimi, over which there is some debate 
among western authors as to its effects. Jyotish considers this as total combustion 
but says it has the effect of harming only living things related to the relevant house. 
In the case of the 2nd house, that means family, rather than the other associations 
of the 2nd such as education, speech or wealth. 


Aside from the obvious wealth-generating aspects of this combination, we should 
note the various themes of the 2nd house that have come to the fore in her life: 
eating and weight loss, confessions of substance abuse, family problems, oratorical 
skills, authorship, love of books and education. 


Equally well, the 11th house themes are observed through social networking and 
influence, political activism, gay rights advocacy, high-profile friendships (eg, Maria 
Shriver and Maya Angelou) and public honors - honorary Harvard doctorate, and a 
Presidential Medal of Freedom. 


This is a night birth wherein Saturn enjoys some small advantage in minor dignities. 
Saturn is in its own decan and face. Venus occupies its own decan. 


This relative strength of Saturn merely echoes what was noted earlier regarding 
primary dignities. Saturn is exalted while Venus is totally combust, therefore Sat- 
urn becomes the control planet in this mutual reception. Its placement in the 11th 


house gives testimony to Oprah's income, her political influence and her status as 
the “Queen of all Media.” 


Exchange of 2nd and 12th lords 
Parashara says: 


* If the 2nd lord occupies the 12th house, the combination makes the native ad- 
venturous, devoid of wealth, dependent on others, and keeps him bereft of the 
happiness of the eldest son. (BPHS 26:24) 


* Should the 12th lord be situated in the 2nd house, the native will always spend 
money on auspicious deeds, be religious, will speak sweetly, and be blessed with 
virtues and happiness. (BPHS 26:134) 


This is a mutual reception wherein the lords are ina 3/11 relationship but involve a 
house of loss. Expense and diet control become two major themes for this particular 
configuration. 


The native experiences large fluctuations of income and expenses, perhaps stem- 
ming from import/export activities. He takes up foreign employment, or enjoys 
income from a foreign source. He doesn't concern himself very much with money, 
and is generous in donating to worthy causes, or careless in spending money on sex 
or travel (depending on whether the respective lords are aspected by benefics or 
malefics). 


He has problems with his eyes or oral cavity, particularly if either of the house lords 
is afflicted. Mouth problems include bad teeth, foul language, untruthfulness, and 
poor dietary habits. The person could have crooked teeth, or even be cross-eyed. 


He is separated from his family as a consequence of foreign travel, hospitalization 
or incarceration. A family member takes up foreign residence for a period of time, 
maybe even immigrates. 


He is sexually attracted to a member of the extended family, eg, the mother’s older 
sibling. His second marriage is based upon sexual attraction and the spouse is 
aggressive. 


Drugs or alcohol are linked to sleep and sex, such that he needs assistance to fall 
asleep or perform sexually. Conversely, substance abuse depresses his energy level, 
affecting wakefulness and/or libido. 


Moksha, or spiritual liberation, comes with great difficulty through jnana yoga, or 
the yoga of knowledge, and devotion to the shastras. 


Famous people with this exchange 


Bertolt Brecht, playwright; Alexandra David-Neel, mystic/writer; Queen Elizabeth 
ll, British royalty; Squeaky Fromm, failed assassin; Spalding Gray, humorist; William 
Randolph Hearst, publisher; Bob Jansky, astrologer; Rodney King, LAPD victim; 
Gordon Lightfoot, musician; James Lovell, astronaut; Marion March, astrologer; 
Francois Mitterand, politician; Roger Zelazny, sci-fi writer. 


Case study 


Queen Elizabeth Hl, reigning monarch of British royalty, has had a checkered life. 
On the one hand, she was born into wealth, with estates and parties and horses 
and dogs, yet during WW2 she was an ambulance mechanic and knitted socks for 


the troops. She married a Prince (of Greece) and after the birth of their son, Prince 
Charles, followed Philip’s naval career to Malta. 


Elizabeth is considered one of the world’s wealthiest women. But in 1992, she 
agreed to pay income tax on her personal income, the first time in the history of 
the monarchy. And as Queen, she has presided over the sunset of the British Em- 
pire. During her reign, 40 former British colonies, protectorates and territories were 
granted their independence. 


In her lifetime, the Royal Family has lost ground in multiple ways. Overall, media 
scrutiny of the Royal Family, especially at the death of Diana, Princess of Wales in 
1997, led to an intense re-evaluation of the role of the British monarchy near the 
end of the century. 


Never mind the loss of wealth, the “loss of face” for the Royal family could plot a 
soap opera. Her uncle King Edward VIII abdicated to marry a commoner, making her 
father King George VI and putting her in line to be the next Queen. Her sister Anne 
was an alcoholic, her other sister Margaret a divorcee. The Charles and Diana mar- 
riage was such a mess that it ended with Diana dead. Charles got his phone hacked 
while telling Camilla he wanted to be reincarnated as her knickers. Andrew and 
Fergie split, leaving Fergie sucking someone else’s toes on a beach to the delight of 
paparazzi. Prince Harry was caught naked on video in Vegas. Then Andrew again, 
accused of sexual abuse and taking bribes... 


No wonder Elizabeth prefers a martini at tea-time. 


ms Q 


19 
S) 


| 


Mars in 2nd house Capricorn is in mutual reception with Saturn in 12th house Scor- 
pio. These two happen to be enemies and, although it’s not immediately obvious 
from this chart format, they form an out-of-sign applying square within a 4-degree 
orb. Mars is nevertheless stabilized by a close conjunction with a weak Jupiter and 
a sign-to-sign opposition from a strong Moon. Saturn is bright and forms an out-of- 


sign square with Jupiter. 


Post-exchange, if Mars carries its degree into the 12th house, it forms a sextile with 
Jupiter, and a square with Venus. If Saturn takes its degree to the 2nd, it forms a 
square with the strong Sun. 


Aside from the family and financial problems created by this exchange, Mars and 
Saturn also generate additional duress by flanking the first house. With malefic 
Ketu, the south node, right on the ascendant, and malefics Mars and Saturn roughly 
equidistant on either side, this creates a mid-point pattern suggesting a potential 
for toxicity. 

This is a night birth wherein Mars gains great advantage through minor receptions 
with its exchange partner. Mars is in the term of Saturn, but Saturn is in the triplic- 
ity, term, face and decan of Mars. 


This definitely corroborates Mars as control planet in this mutual reception, al- 
though its exaltation already gave it the distinction of being the more powerful 
planet. Its position in the 2nd house speaks to its role in perpetuating the themes of 
wealth and family, indeed dynasty. 


Chapter 8 
Exchanges with the 3rd house lord 


Exchange of 3rd and 4th lords 
Parashara says: 


* Should the 3rd lord be situated in the 4th house, the native will be happy, 
wealthy and intelligent but will acquire a vicious wife. (BPHS 26:28) 


* If the 4th lord be placed in the 3rd house, the native will be valorous, will have 
servants, be liberal, virtuous and charitable, and will have self-earned wealth 
and be free from diseases. (BPHS 26:39) 


This is a mutual reception wherein the lords are in a 2/12 relationship involving the 
mildly problematic 3rd house. The native is physically restless, happiest when in 
motion, and is therefore not inclined to settle down for long. He changes relation- 
ships, jobs, residence and vehicles frequently. 


He is adventurous and courageous, such that he is drawn to professions that offer 
some element of risk, eg, the arts, sports, firefighting, police, or military occupa- 
tions. His hands may play an active role in what he does for a living. 


His mother's happiness, or his relationship with her, is disturbed. She experiences 
loss or unwelcome change in her life. She may move frequently, be frequently “off- 
balance”, and suffer debility of a physical or psychological nature. 


Although the native himself suffers breaks in his education, he is an auditory 
learner, and learns best by hearing things. An education in the arts or the trades is 
favored. 


His siblings are well-educated, and enjoy financial security. Brothers and sisters are 
close to his mother, and become involved in real estate, farming, mining, and the 
transportation or hospitality industries. 


Famous people with this exchange 


Scott Adams, cartoonist; Burt Bacharach, composer; José Raul Capablanca, chess 
grandmaster; Prince Charles, British royalty; Francis Ford Coppola, film-maker; Noel 
Coward, playwright; Ray Davies, musician; Alain Delon, actor; Shannen Doherty, 
actress; Federico Fellini, director; Joseph Goebbels, Nazi; Washington Irving, writer; 
James Jones, writer; Alan Ladd, producer; John Malkovich, actor; Ray Manzarek, 
musician; Sal Mineo, actor; Martin Scorsese, director; Daryl Sittler, hockey player; 
Sir Arthur Sullivan, composer. 


Case study 


Noel Coward was a prolific British writer for the performance arts, writing over 50 
plays, 100 songs, and novels and short stories. He also performed as an actor and 
singer in many of his productions, and later as a director and producer. Despite a 
spotty education, at the peak of his career he was the highest-paid playwright in 
the world. 


Born in the suburbs, he was introduced early on to British high society and subse- 


quently cultivated an image (dressing gown and cigarette holder) that became his 
signature look. Although his admitted goal was only to entertain, many of his plays 
were considered shocking in their day, bringing to light the shenanigans of the 
upper class, including infidelity, drug use, ménage a trois, bisexuality and homosex- 
uality. 

He was himself a closet homosexual during an era when self-disclosure was socially 
risky, but he was widely admired for his brilliant intellect and biting wit. Mentally 
as well as physically restless, he was a workaholic who declared that “work was 
more fun than fun.” He was eventually knighted for his contribution to the arts, and 
received a Tony Award for lifetime achievement. 


© 
> 


Jupiter in 3rd house Scorpio is in mutual reception with Mars in 4th house Sagittar- 
ius. The two share no mutual aspect. Jupiter enjoys a sign-to-sign opposition with a 
very powerful Moon (full and exalted) in the 9th. Mars is on the edge of combustion 
and widely conjunct its enemy Saturn. 


Post-exchange, if Jupiter carries its own degree into the 4th, it becomes combust 
while conjunct Saturn. If Mars takes its degree to the 3rd, it conjoins Mercury. 


3rd-house themes were evident in his writing and life-long devotion to the perfor- 
mance arts. The cluster of warring malefics in the 4th house reflected his incom- 
plete education and handicapped mother. 


Coward spoke with characteristic clipped diction, a form of speech he adopted to 
accommodate his nearly-deaf mother. In the 1950s he left England for tax reasons 
to live in Bermuda, Jamaica and Switzerland. Three malefics in the 4th house, along 
with the 3rd/4th exchange contributed to tubercular complications and death by 
heart attack. 


This is a night birth where Mars gains advantage through minor dignities and recep- 
tions with its exchange partner. Mars and Jupiter both occupy each other's triplicity 


and decan. Jupiter is in the term and face of Mars. Normally this would designate 
Mars as the control planet in this mutual reception, but its proximity to the Sun and 
Saturn erodes its power. 


Meanwhile, Jupiter enjoys the association of ascendant lord Mercury. The intellec- 
tual nature of this pair is further enhanced by the sign-to-sign aspect from a robust 
Moon. In the end, it’s this benefic integration of 3rd-house Jupiter that makes it the 
control planet for this mutual reception, and confirms its role in Coward’s fame as a 
performer and writer. 


Exchange of 3rd and 5th lords 
Parashara says: 


* In case the 3rd lord is placed in the 5th house, the native will be blessed with 
sons and be worthy. If he is in conjunction with or is aspected by a malefic 
planet, the native’s wife is of a cruel nature. (BPHS 26:29) 


* In case the 5th lord is situated in the 3rd house, the native will be dear to his 
brothers, be a tale bearer and miserly, and is always interested in his own work. 
(BPHS 26:51) 


This is a mutual reception wherein the lords are in a 3/11 relationship involving the 
mildly problematic 3rd house. The mixed results of this exchange flow easily into 
manifestation, with generally positive effects for his siblings, but somewhat nega- 
tive effects for his children. 


The person is mentally restless and always thinking of doing something. Because of 
a mental preoccupation with sex, his practical intelligence sinks to a lower plane. 
Due to a propensity for being easily distracted, this will also make meditation diffi- 
cult. On the other hand, he enjoys games or pastimes that require mental or digital 
dexterity, eg, cards, chess, backgammon, crossword puzzles, or craft work. 


He is courageous and prepared to take risks, intellectually and physically. This 
favors careers such as engineering, physics and military science, or anything requir- 
ing a technical turn of mind. He may also have talent in the arts that require man- 
ual dexterity, such as painting, drawing, music, and journalism (especially travel 
writing). 

His siblings are interested in literature, spiritual pursuits, or sports. Benefics in 
exchange favor the arts, while malefics favor sports. Younger siblings are likely to 
take frequent short journeys. 


His children are independent and earn good salaries. They are not subservient to 
their parents (may in fact be disobedient or rebellious), and tend to treat them 
more as friends. 


Famous people with this exchange 


Olivia Barclay, astrologer; Sarah Bernhardt, actress; Frank Borman, astronaut; 

Herb Elliot, track & field star; Connie Francis, singer; Gus Grissom, astronaut; Hugh 
Hefner, publisher; Immanuel Kant, philosopher; Nicolo Machiavelli, political theo- 
rist; Rainer Maria Rilke, poet; Nicole Brown Simpson, murder victim; Stephen Sond- 
heim, composer; Keith Urban, musician; Tammy Wynette, singer. 


Case study 


Sarah Bernhardt was born the illegitimate daughter of a prostitute, but eventually 
became one of the most renowned actresses of her time. After being expelled from 
France's prestigious theatre Comédie Francaise, she resumed the life of a courtesan 
to which her mother had introduced her, and made considerable money during 
those years. When she later resumed her stage career to achieve success and fame as 
a serious dramatic actress, people began to call her “the Divine Sarah.” 


Along the way, she accumulated a series of lovers from among the best-known 


artists of the day, not to mention a few members of European nobility, conducting 
her affairs with a maximum of frenzy and tragedy worthy of her dramatic back- 
ground. She was married only once for less than one year. 


A versatile artist, she studied both painting and sculpture, and her works were 
subsequently exhibited and well received. Perhaps anticipating method acting, she 
acquired a coffin in which she often slept, saying it helped her understand her many 
tragic roles. 


After injuring a knee during a performance, the leg never healed properly, gan- 
grene set in, and the entire leg had to be amputated. Undaunted, she continued to 
perform onstage, and died of kidney failure at age 78. 


yD 48 
7, 03 VS 
ag °F 09 
16 
| | On oa 


lo 

wy) 

— 
1e) 


Venus in 3rd house Leo is in mutual reception with the Sun in Sth house Libra. 
The two share no mutual aspect. The Sun is debilitated, flanked on either side by 
malefics, its only aspect a tight applying square with a strong Saturn in the 8th. 
Venus is unaspected. 


Post-exchange, if Venus carries its degree into the Sth, it is still unaspected, but now 
a classic for creativity, drama and entertainment, not to mention an active love life. 
If the Sun takes its degree into the 3rd, it becomes equally unaspected, while still 
being representative of the performing arts. Thus, 3rd and Sth house themes char- 
acterized her life. 


A debilitated Sun in the Sth tightly squaring that strong Saturn perhaps explains 
why so many of her romances were frustrated one way or another — by class divi- 
sions, drug addictions and scandal by association. 


The real source of her success may be credited to the three strong benefics in the 
angles - ascendant lord Mercury in the Virgo 4th, a bright Jupiter in the Pisces 10th, 
and a waxing almost-full Moon in the 10th. 


This is a night birth wherein Venus gains advantage through minor forms of recep- 


tion with its exchange partner. The Sun is in the term and decan of Venus. This con- 
firms Venus as the control planet in the mutual reception. 


As noted earlier, the Sun is debilitated and squared by Saturn, whereas Venus is 
absent any affliction. Therefore, the placement of Venus in the 3rd house is consis- 
tent with Bernhardt’s fame as a performing artist. 


Exchange of 3rd and 6th lords 
Parashara says: 


* If the 3rd lord happens to be placed in the 6th house, the native will be inimical 
to his brother, be very wealthy, will have enmity with his maternal uncle, and 
will have love for his maternal aunt. (BPHS 26:30) 


* If the 6th lord is situated in the 3rd house, the native will be given to anger, be 
bereft of courage, inimical to all his brothers, and will have disobedient ser- 
vants. (BPHS 26:63) 


This is a mutual reception wherein the lords are in a 4/10 relationship between two 
problematic houses. Between these two difficult house lords, we expect the native 
to experience significant struggle in overcoming obstacles and competitors, paying 
the price perhaps in defeat or disease. 


The native doesn’t appear outwardly adventurous until challenged by competitors, 
at which time his courage emerges. He is capable of using his hands in some skilled 
way, which includes wielding them as weapons. His health is weak with respect to 
the lungs and digestion, but although initially poor, both improve over time. He 
may also have hearing problems, especially in the right ear. 


His talents, of a technical or service nature, favor jobs in the medical, legal, military, 
police and security industries. His earnings gradually increase over time. He has 
little talent in the arts, and even though he might persevere, success will be hard- 
earned. 


He has difficult relations with his brothers and sisters, some of whom may be 
involved in competitive sports. A younger sibling could be engaged in the purchase 
and sale of (stolen) vehicles or properties. His mother’s siblings, who might have 
good jobs, reputation or status, also suffer misfortunes in life. 


As an employee, skilled adversaries are much in evidence, and compete with him for 
job opportunities. As an employer, he has problems with staff - either through in- 
competence, theft or unreliability — leading to a situation of high turnover. His pets 
get lost, run away or are stolen. 


Famous people with this exchange 


Nat “King” Cole, musician; David Copperfield, illusionist; Otto Dietrich, Nazi press 
chief; Bob Fosse, dancer; James Garner, actor; L. Ron Hubbard, Scientologist; lan 
McKellen, actor; Joe Montana, football player; Demi Moore, actress; Maximilian 
Robespierre, revolutionary; William Shatner, actor; Sirhan Sirhan, assassin; Edward 
Snowden, whistleblower; Dennis Wilson, musician; Christian Wirth, Nazi. 


Case study 


Edward Snowden, a former computer systems administrator for the CIA, became 
perhaps the world’s most famous whistle-blower to date when he leaked informa- 
tion regarding the NSA's systemic monitoring of American citizens’ emails, texts, 
and phone calls, as well as its spying on countries deemed sympathetic to the USA. 
After fleeing the USA, Snowden was granted asylum in Russia, where he remains to 
this day. Since then, the US government has charged him with theft of government 


property and two counts of espionage, conviction on any of which charge could see 
him imprisoned for a decade. 


Notwithstanding his fugitive status, Snowden’s actions have changed the modern 
world. People, especially in America, no longer assume that their emails, texts 

and phone calls are kept private, and online business for domestic companies has 
suffered hugely. Although judgment on his status remains mixed in America, polls 
around the rest of the world regard Snowden as more hero than traitor, and he has 
received numerous awards and accolades for his role in encouraging government 
transparency where it concerns the privacy of citizens. 


Dubbed “a genius among geniuses” by his former colleagues, Snowden has an IQ of 
145, speaks functional Chinese and Japanese, and at the height of his career was se- 
nior systems geek for the CIA. 


Qo Jk 


Venus in 3rd house Cancer is in mutual reception with the Moon in 6th house Libra. 
The two are in a tight applying square. The Moon has no other aspects, and Venus 
has only a sextile with Mercury at the ascendant. Post-exchange, since their degrees 
are quite close, their respective relationship with other planets would merely be 
swapped. 


This exchange between 3rd and 6th lords invokes competition and struggle for 
success. The 3rd is also a Kama house, expressing a desire to get things done, to 
summon courage and demonstrate prowess. The 6th is associated with service and 
employment but also the fighting spirit necessary to succeed in whatever field - 
sports arena, courtroom or battlefield. 


No matter whether ascendant lord Venus or the Moon occupies the 6th house, we 
expect these themes to emerge in the life: competitive nature, security work of 
some kind, potential litigation. As it turns out, Snowden enjoys martial arts, and 
joined the US reserve with the intention of fighting in Iraq but was discharged when 


he broke both legs during a training exercise. 

He worked as both a security guard and analyst for the CIA and, ironically, has been 
accused of undermining US national security. His parents and siblings all worked for 
the federal government, two of them in a legal capacity. Despite his public persona, 
he is a soft-spoken vegetarian. 

This is a night birth wherein neither exchange planet gains any advantage through 
minor dignities or receptions. Venus is in its own term but in the face of the Moon. 
Thus, neither can be designated control planet to identify the pivotal house in this 
mutual reception. 

In such a situation, we might simply have to favor the 6th, since it is also occupied 
by a bright and exalted Saturn. This is consistent with what he is best-known for: a 
security analyst turned whistle-blower, a digital Don Quixote now the object of gov- 
ernmental prosecution. 


Exchange of 3rd and 7th lords 
Parashara says: 


* Should the 3rd lord occupy the 7th house, the native will have aptitude for 
serving the King, he will not be happy during childhood but there is no doubt in 
it that he will get happiness at the end. (BPHS 26:31) 


* tf the 7th lord is situated in the 3rd house, the children of the native are sub- 
jected to (early) death. Sometimes a daughter is born, and a son may also re- 
main living with great difficulty. (BPHS 26:75) 


This is a mutual reception wherein the lords are in a 5/9 relationship from kama 
houses. Because of this pattern, we expect a passionate approach to life that results 
in the ready fruition of artistic accomplishments and relationships. 


The native is courageous, adventurous, willing to take risks, and intent on living an 
exciting and varied life. Talented in lovemaking, he may seek adventure through 
sexual relationships of an ephemeral nature. The exchange of two kama lords 
creates strong passions, which may strain a monogamous relationship. Either the 
native or his spouse has strong sexual drives that may not be fulfilled within the 
relationship. 


The native is fond of travel and likely to form partnerships — business or personal 

- with foreigners. This combination favors careers in sales, marketing, and public 
relations. His siblings will be adventurous and well-traveled. He may share a special 
relationship with his sibling's children. 


The spouse may be artistic or athletic, but willful and ill-tempered, such that 
occasional separations become likely. The spouse pursues foreign studies, and may 
share a mutual attraction with one of the native’s siblings. 


Famous people with this exchange 


Tammy Faye Bakker, evangelist; Carla Bruni, model; Roger Daltrey, singer; John 
Wayne Gacy, serial killer; Francoise Gauquelin, statistician; Mel Gibson, actor; Lady 
Bird Johnson, US First Lady; Patty Hearst, publishing heiress; Jim Jarmusch, direc- 
tor; David Letterman, talk show host; Ed McMahon, TV host; Wendy Yoshimiro, po- 
litical activist. 


Case study 


John Wayne Gacy, aka The Killer Klown, was a Chicago-area serial killer who during 
the 1970s sexually assaulted and murdered at least 33 teenage boys and young 
men. Most were buried under the cellar floor of his suburban home. 


Gacy was brutalized by his father throughout his youth, sexually molested as a child 
by a family acquaintance, and later initiated homosexual contacts with several of 
his employees. He worked in a mortuary for a short period and at one time climbed 
naked into a coffin with a deceased young man. 


While briefly serving time for sodomy, he was a model prisoner, and initiated a 
number of improvements in prison conditions. He was for a time the manager of 
three KFC stores and later a successful building contractor. A zealous social net- 
worker, he was an ardent Democrat and a president of the local Jaycees, whose du- 


bious social activities at the time included prostitution and wife-swapping. 


He was married twice, although his second wife divorced him for sexual impotency. 
He liked to entertain at children’s parties wearing a signature clown costume. After 
being incarcerated, he began to paint, often featuring himself in costume. Some of 
his paintings sold for as much as $20,000, although many were later bought by vic- 
tims’ families in order to be burned. 


18 
2 52 44 3 
yg: | | 
3 61 b | 
\ 19" 5 

\my Ase” i 


Venus in 3rd house Capricorn is in mutual reception with Saturn in 7th house Tau- 
rus. The two are natural friends but share no mutual aspect. Venus is ordinary and 
enjoys an exact trine with Jupiter. Saturn is ordinary, square to Mercury, and sextile 
Sun and Moon. 


Post-exchange, if Venus carries its degree into the 7th house, it forms a partile 
(Odeg18min) conjunction with Jupiter. If Saturn takes its degree to the 3rd, it re- 
tains sextiles with the Sun and Moon. 


The angles are dominated by malefics — Mars, Saturn, the nodal axis - and the Moon 
is dark. Pre-exchange, the presence of Saturn in the 7th compounds the aggressive 
nature of 6th lord Mars. Post-exchange, Saturn is replaced by Venus, also lord of the 
12th. 


In either case, the combination spells trouble for “romantic partners” no matter 
whether we deem them to be represented by the 5th lord Jupiter or the 7th house 
itself. After years of engaging in forced homosexual rape, Gacy moved on to mur- 
der. 

This is a night birth wherein Venus gains the advantage of minor receptions with its 
exchange partner. Since Saturn is in the term and decan of Venus, this gives Venus 
the nod for control planet in this mutual reception. 


Although Gacy became notorious for his role as a serial killer, he also fancied him- 
self a performer and an artist, roles consistent with the placement of Venus in the 


3rd house. 
Exchange of 3rd and 8th lords 


Parashara says: 


* In case the 3rd lord is situated in the 8th house, the native will be a thief, will de- 
rive his livelihood from serving others, and will be killed by a king. (BPHS 26:32) 


* In case the 8th lord is gone in the 3rd house, the native will be devoid of fra- 
ternal happiness, be indolent, be devoid of vigor, and without servants. (BPHS 
26:87) 


This is a mutual reception wherein the lords are in a 6/8 relationship from prob- 
lematic houses. Because of the relative positions of the participant planets, they are 
somewhat blind to each other, so that the combination may not manifest on a pub- 
lic or conscious level, but in a more personal or unconscious manner. 


The native is cautious, avoids risks, and has difficulty in fulfilling his desires. He may 
have secret adventures, either sexual or criminal in nature. He may be inclined to do 
things that transgress conventional laws or morals, such that his activities turn into 
misadventures. 


He reveals a heightened level of sexual interest or activity, but also experiences 
stressful circumstances surrounding such activities, involving aberrations or 
trauma, eg, rape, incest, perversion, nymphomania or satyriasis, etc. The net effect 
is that he becomes sexually exhausted or debilitated over time. 


He has health problems regarding his hearing, upper limbs and/or lungs. He is 
prone to mishaps, especially in the course of day-to-day travel. Longevity is poor. 
He engages in activities that are self-injurious, perhaps even life-threatening, some- 
times verging on suicidal behavior. 


Unless stabilized by association or aspect from benefic planets, this exchange 
suggests the native has difficulty expressing his artistic talents or athletic skills. On 
the other hand, he may have strong interest or hidden talents in the occult or mys- 
tic arts. 


His siblings are sickly, accident-prone and generally unlucky. They experience hard- 
ships in the form of emotional or physical trauma, financial reversals and premature 
demise. 


Famous people with this exchange 


Eva Gabor, actress; Max Klinger, artist; Vivien Leigh, actress; Michelangelo, Renais- 
sance man; Louis Pasteur, scientist; Sri Bhagwan Rajneesh, guru; Boz Scaggs, musi- 
cian; Robert Sherwood, playwright; Robert Stack, actor. 


Case study 


Sri Bhagwan Rajneesh was an Indian mystic and guru. Some described his philoso- 
phy as a potpourri of counter-cultural ideas focusing on love and freedom, living for 
the moment, the importance of self, the mystery of life, individual responsibility for 
one’s own destiny, and the need to lose the ego, fear and guilt. 


Critical of both contemporary Indian politics and religion, he was disparaged as 
much as admired. His ideas on sex, marriage, family and relationships contradicted 


traditional views, arousing anger and opposition. In India, he became known as the 
“sex guru” because his spiritual community practiced a form of sexual libertinism. 
His life was characterized by scandal and notoriety. 


His lifestyle was lavish, with multiple mansions and 93 Rolls-Royces. For a period 
of time he and his followers resided in the USA, where he was dubbed the “Rolls- 
Royce guru.” In America, he ran afoul of both the religious establishment and the 
tax authorities, was charged with 35 counts of conspiracy and fraud, briefly impris- 
oned and ultimately forced to leave the country. 


He had impaired hearing in the right ear, suffered asthma and diabetes, and for 

a time took 60 mg Valium daily, and was addicted to nitrous oxide, under whose 
influence he dictated a number of books. Over 650 books are attributed to him, 
mostly transcriptions from his many public lectures, in which he was acknowledged 
to be a spellbinding speaker. 


ia 08 9 
Tl 29 m1 
Am 
ve eh 
Jupiter in 3rd house Cancer is in mutual reception with the Moon in 8th house 
Sagittarius. The two share no mutual aspect. Jupiter is strong, being both bright 
and exalted, and forms an applying trine with the Sun. The Moon is dark (less than 
three days after the new moon) and conjunct Venus and Saturn within a massive 8th 
house stellium, whose theme of sexuality tainted his reputation. 


Post-exchange, if the Moon carries its degree into the 3rd house, it forms an apply- 
ing trine with the Sun. If Jupiter takes its degree to the 8th, it forms a tight conjunc- 
tion with Saturn. 


At the same time, however, Jupiter would thus contribute to a (virtual) phenom- 
enon wherein the three most virulent house lords (Venus, Jupiter and Mars ruling, 
respectively, the 6th, 8th and 12th) are all in the 8th house. 


This is the astrological equivalent of “three wrongs make a right.” Think of incarcer- 
ating a criminal, an infectious disease carrier and a terrorist in one prison cell where 


they’ll do more harm to themselves than society. 

The problem with this scenario is that a couple of bystanders are locked up with 
them. The incarceration has the side effect of corrupting Mercury and Saturn, lords 
of 2nd/5th and 9th/10th, respectively. 

Thus, we see signs of substance abuse and poisoning (his US ashram was found 
guilty of contaminating a neighboring town’s food supply), “wrong” (highly con- 
troversial) teaching, rebellious acolytes (subversion from within his inner circle), 
unethical (questionable) conduct and outright clashes with government authorities, 
at one time seeking asylum but deemed persona non grata in every country where 
he sought refuge. 

This is a day birth wherein neither planet in the exchange derives any advantage 
through minor dignities or receptions with the other. Jupiter is in its own decan but 
in a face of the Moon. From this perspective, there’s no obvious control, thus oblig- 
ing us to review their primary dignities. 

Jupiter is bright and exalted while the Moon is dark and otherwise ordinary. This 
compare-and-contrast exercise is enough to judge Jupiter as the control planet for 
this mutual reception. 

Jupiter is “guru” in Sanskrit, hence its generic association with spiritual life. in ad- 
dition, its placement in the 3rd house reminds us that Rajneesh was a prolific writer, 
both under his original name and his subsequent “relabeling” as Osho. 


Exchange of 3rd and 9th lords 
Parashara says: 


* If the 3rd lord happens to fall in the 9th house, the native is bereft of paternal 
happiness, makes fortunes through his wife, and enjoys the happiness of having 
sons, etc. (BPHS 26:33) 


* If the 9th lord is placed in the 3rd house, the native will be blessed with fraternal 
bliss, be wealthy, virtuous and charming. (BPHS 26:99) 


This is a mutual reception wherein the lords are in a 7/7 relationship. Because this 
mutual sign-to-sign aspect facilitates the individual's awareness of the exchange, 
the urge for integration is a fully conscious one. 


The native has a strong desire for spiritual development but is frustrated in his 
efforts to make things happen as quickly as he would like. He has the courage to fol- 
low his principles, and takes up righteous causes. A bit of a fanatic, he tries too hard 
to convince others of his beliefs, and may get into trouble with the law through in- 
flammatory writings or actions. 


He relocates in order to pursue a higher education in the fine arts or the physical 
sciences. He travels a lot, both locally, and to foreign locales. He doesn't have any 
natural luck, but succeeds through his own efforts. He is talented in the literary 
arts, and may be a writer, a teacher or a media professional. Other potential occu- 
pations include columnist, editor, lawyer and pilot. 


He enjoys good relations with his siblings, but a difficult relationship with his 
father. His siblings are religious, attached to their gurus, and travel to foreign coun- 
tries for their higher education. The father is engaged in much day-to-day travel, 
and is artistic or athletic, but is likely to have a short life span. 


Famous people with this exchange 


Gianni Agnelli, industrialist; David Byrne, musician; Karen Carpenter, singer; Larry 
Csonka, football player; Tim Curry, actor; Robert Guccione, publisher; Erich Hart- 
mann, ace fighter pilot; Waylon Jennings, singer; Katherine Mansfield, writer; 
Richard Nolle, astrologer; Don Schollander, Olympic swimmer; Mickey Spillane, 
writer; George Strait, singer; Tiger Woods, golfer. 


Case study 


Mickey Spillane was a prolific and successful writer, and his “hard-boiled” detective 
novels have sold over 225 million copies. An athletic man, he swam and played 
football in high school, while later in life he was a professional diver, a trampoline 
artist, a race car driver, a flight instructor and a WW2 fighter pilot. 


He began his writing career creating scripts for comic books, including Captain 
America, Batman, Superman and Captain Marvel. Although his Mike Hammer series 
of hard-boiled detective novels outraged many critics of the day because of their 
overt descriptions of sex and violence, no less a literary icon than Ayn Rand publicly 
endorsed his work. Subsequent critics have come around to seeing poetry in his 
lean, muscular style of writing, and in 1985 he received the Edgar Allan Poe Grand 
Master Award for his body of work. 


Spillane was an active Jehovah's Witness, was married three times, and died of pan- 
creatic carcinoma at the age of 88. 


Q @ 
Bp 
TY 1s Il 
Se \ | / 8 
03 _ Ot 
| 30) 15 
| | 3] 11 4. \ 
| | 
| | 
| 02! 
| LON = } | 
my Asc ve) 
is ae 
04 46' x a5, 06 
2 o4 ss - 25 u 


The Moon in 3rd house Capricorn is in mutual reception with Saturn in 9th house 
Cancer. Both are in detriment. The two are in a very wide applying opposition (if we 
allow generous orbs). The waning Moon is dark within four days of the new moon 
and ina Grand Trine with friendly planets Mars and Jupiter. Saturn is bright and el- 
evated while stabilized by an opposition from Venus and a sextile with Jupiter. 


Post-exchange, if the Moon carries its degree into the 9th house, it forms sextiles 
with Mars and Jupiter. If Saturn takes its degree to the 3rd, it conjoins Venus and 
trines Jupiter. 


Note that, before and after exchange, both planets aspect Jupiter. As lord of the 2nd 
and the Sth, Jupiter represents authorship, while its generic signification for pub- 
lishing gives our interpretation a further nudge in that direction. 


Although technically just out of orb for a Ptolemaic opposition, Moon and Saturn 
do aspect each other sign-to-sign. This creates a theme of activity along the 3rd/9th 
axis. Moon and Venus in the same sign is a common factor seen in the charts of peo- 
ple of artistic temperament or profession. 


3rd house themes are evident in his athleticism, physical prowess and daredevil 
character. 9th house themes came through as an interest in law, a devout religious 
practice, and his role as instructor, both in pilot training for the air force and in 
teaching writing at local colleges. 


This is a night birth wherein neither planet gains advantage through minor digni- 
ties or receptions with the other. The Moon is in its own triplicity but in a decan of 
Saturn. To determine the control planet for this mutual reception, we must return 
to primary dignities. 


The bright elevated Saturn is stronger than the dark Moon. Saturn's placement in 


the 9th reminds us of Spillane’s success in publishing and teaching, as well as his 
lesser-known spiritual devotion. 


Exchange of 3rd and 10th lords 
Parashara says: 


* When the 3rd lord is placed in the 10th house, the native will have all kinds of 
happiness, and self-made wealth, and is apt to nurture wicked females. (BPHS 
26:34) 


* If the 10th lord is situated in the 3rd house, the native will enjoy happiness from 
brothers and servants, be valorous, virtuous, eloquent and truthful. (BPHS 
26:111) 


This is a mutual reception wherein the lords are in a 6/8 relationship. These are 
house lords associated with, respectively, desire and activity, but their relationship 
makes it difficult for their owner to take full advantage of their partnership, and it 
takes considerable effort to yield significant results. 


The native is talented in the fine arts, athletic activities, or one of the standard 
trades. Despite initial setbacks in his desires or ambitions, he eventually achieves 
success, thanks to the combined influence of these house lords, who are capable of 
conferring triumph over adversity, albeit after significant struggle. 


He puts a lot of effort into his career, sometimes too aggressively, and could incur 
the displeasure of superiors and/or the public. He has the courage to take bold 
stands that generate publicity and visibility within his social circle. He may have an 
affair with someone at work. 


He has special manual skills critical to his chosen profession, whether in the per- 
forming arts, sports or skilled trades. Due to occupational hazards, he may suffer 
injuries to his hearing, upper limbs, lungs, nerves or skin. 


The person's siblings are helpful in pursuing his profession. One of the siblings may 
be employed in the arts, sports or skilled trades. Siblings are prone to accidents, 
setbacks and miscellaneous misfortunes in life. 


Famous people with this exchange 


William Jennings Bryan, politician; Michael Caine, actor; Albert Camus, writer; 
Lewis Carroll, logician/writer; Mia Farrow, actress; Betty Friedan, feminist; Linda 
Hunt, actress; Herman Kahn, strategist; Steve Miller, musician; Victoria Sackville- 
West, writer; Sepharial, occult journalist. 


Case study 


Mia Farrow is an actress, activist and former model. Her father was a film director, 
her mother actress Maureen O'Sullivan. She was raised Catholic and schooled by 
convent nuns for 13 years. Both older brothers died suddenly — one in a plane crash, 
the other by suicide. 


She first gained notice in the television soap opera Peyton Place, from which she 
withdrew to marry Frank Sinatra when she was 21 and he was 50. After he discour- 
aged her acting career, she became bored and they divorced after only two years of 
marriage. Her role in Rosemary’s Baby, which won her a Golden Globe, catapulted 
her into stardom. 


She visited India to study TM with Maharishi Mahesh Yogi at the same time as the 
Beatles. In 1970, she had an affair with and subsequently married conductor/com- 
poser André Previn with whom she had twins. They divorced in 1979. 


Shortly thereafter, she began a relationship with Woody Allen, and from 1980 to 
1992 starred in 13 of his movies. Their relationship collapsed when she discovered 
his interest in one of their adopted children, Korean-born Soon Yi. Thereafter, they 
split amid allegations and counter-accusations regarding various forms of abuse 
concerning other of their adopted children. 


Since then, she’s become a high-profile advocate for human rights in Africa, partic- 
ularly children's rights, and has received several awards for her humanitarian work. 


{Te 


Saturn in 3rd house Gemini is in mutual reception with Mercury in 10th house 
Capricorn. The two share no mutual aspect. Saturn is bright and participates in a 
mutable T-Square with the Moon and Venus. Mercury is ordinary, in sextile with 
Venus, and associated with two fiery planets Sun and Mars without becoming 
combust. 


Since the two planets are quite close in degree, exchange simply means they'll swap 
their respective relationships with other planets. 


Combinations involving the 3rd and 10th house lords are quite common among ac- 
tors, musicians and other performers. 


No matter where we look for siblings, trouble looms. Mercury is lord of the 3rd 
(siblings) while Saturn is lord of the 11th (older siblings). Before or after exchange, 
one or the other is afflicted by association with either the nodal axis or the Sun/ 
Mars pair, wherein Mars is lord of the 8th. 


Pre- or post-exchange, Mercury or Saturn also associate with command-and-control 
planets Sun and Mars in the 10th, thus provoking some sort of activism. This is most 
obvious in her humanitarian work, where she’s been both aggressive and insistent 


on taking governments to task for their treatment of children. 


This is a day birth wherein Saturn ekes out modest advantage through a minor dig- 
nity, ie, occupying its own triplicity. But that serves to confirm Saturn as the control 
planet in this mutual reception, since Saturn is bright, while Mercury is merely ordi- 
nary. Saturn's placement in the 3rd house highlights her role as an actor. 


Exchange of 3rd and 11th lords 
Parashara says: 


* If the 3rd lord has gone into the 11th house, the native will always gain in trad- 
ing, will be intelligent in spite of being illiterate, be adventurous, and will serve 
others. (BPHS 26:35) 


* If the 11th lord be situated in the 3rd house, the native will be skillful in all jobs, 
wealthy, be blessed with fraternal bliss, and sometimes may incur gout pains. 
(BPHS 26:123) 


This is a mutual reception wherein the lords are in a 5/9 relationship from kama 

houses. Because of this pattern, the powerful combination of courage and desire 

is accompanied by a certain degree of good fortune, thus yielding commensurate 
results. 


The native has the courage to address large assemblies, and may act as a spokesper- 
son for an association or society. He is talented in entertaining large groups of 
people, through speaking or performing. He takes part in a group adventure, and is 
a member of a musical group or performing arts troupe. He may be ambidextrous, 
and has a good musical ear. 


After a period of struggle, his ambitions are ultimately fulfilled and his gains ac- 
cumulate gradually. He is a natural trader who makes money by taking calculated 
risks. Alternatively, he earns money through the arts, writing or technical trades. 


He also gains wealth through his siblings, who support his hopes and ambitions. His 
younger siblings pursue foreign travels. He has a close relationship with his sibling's 
children. He has many friends who are treated as part of the family. 


Famous people with this exchange 


Helen Gurtey Brown, publisher; Chrissie Hynde, singer; Jayne Mansfield, actress; 
Marion March, astrologer; Emperor Maximilian |, German royalty; Jimmy Page, 
musician; Carlo Ponti, producer; Ketly Quinn, psychic; John Rechy, writer; Keith 
Richards, musician; Telly Savalas, actor; Jo Jo Starbuck, Olympic skater; Bobby 
Womack, musician. 


Case study 


Keith Richards is a musician, singer and songwriter, an original member of the 
world’s most enduring rock band, the Rolling Stones. Fellow musicians note that, 
while most bands follow their drummer, the Stones have no choice but to follow 
rhythm-meister Richards. 


Richards is both a traditionalist, favoring acoustic blues, and an innovator, using 5- 
stringed electric guitars with open tuning. Rolling Stone magazine credited him for 
“rock's greatest single body of riffs" on guitar and ranked him 4th on its list of 100 
best guitarists. 


Long defying Top 10 lists of who'll die next, Richards is an archetype of a rock star's 
gypsy lifestyle. One journalist labeted him with Lord Byron's epithet — “mad, bad, 
and dangerous to know.” Another called him “a capering streak of living gristle who 
ought to be exhibited as a warning to youth of what drugs can do to you even if 


you're lucky enough not to choke on your own vomit.” 


Richards, who's been frank about his drug abuse, including heroin addiction and 
blood-cleansing treatments in Swiss clinics, has been tried on drug-related charges 
five times. 


An avid reader with a strong interest in WW2 history, he owns an extensive library. 
A 2010 article revealed he yearns to be a librarian. Co-written with a journalist, 
Richards’ memoir Life was released in 2010, following a New York publisher’s ad- 
vance of US $7.3 million. 


[Sc eran 
a ro) 
AR. 15 PR 
03 50 # 29 
id. 37 rs 53' OR 
36 19 
loa | 
f | 
| Q 18 11 | 
o ap ) 
Asc 
F /19' = fl 50 
my ere VN 
© s) rai 


The Sun in 3rd house Sagittarius is in mutual reception with Jupiter in 11th house 
Leo. The two are mutual friends connected by a close trine. Jupiter is bright and ele- 
vated, associated by sign with a relatively bright Moon, and in an out-of-sign sextile 
with Saturn. The Sun is ordinary with its only other aspect being an out-of-sign op- 
position with Saturn. 


Since the Sun and Jupiter are quite close in degree, their relationships with other 
planets are merely swapped under a post-exchange scenario. 


3rd house themes are revealed through his guitar prowess, songwriting talent and 
love of books. Note that the 3rd/11th exchange involves the two houses that rule 

the right and left hands, respectively. Interestingly, another fabled rock guitarist, 

Jimmy Page, also has an exchange of 3rd and 11th lords. 


The 11th house theme has played out in “group work", a huge income, an iconic 
social profile as a rock star, ongoing dedication to fellow musicians, and a collection 
of guitars that numbers over 3000. 


This is a night birth, wherein Jupiter gains significant advantage through minor 
dignities and receptions with its exchange partner. The Sun and Jupiter are bothina 
triplicity of Jupiter. The Sun is in a decan of Jupiter while Jupiter is in a decan of the 
Sun. Finally, the Sun is in a term of Jupiter. 


Thus, although there are multiple forms of symbiosis between the two (mutual 
receptions by both sign and decan, and a tight trine), the bright Jupiter emerges as 
the control planet for this mutual reception. 


Jupiter’s placement in the 11th highlights Richards’ primary role in a group wherein 
he is universally acknowledged as the helmsman of the world’s greatest rock ‘n’ roll 
band. 


Exchange of 3rd and 12th lords 
Parashara says: 


* In the event of the 3rd lord being placed in the 12th house, the native will spend 
his wealth in evil deeds, his father will be cruel, and the native becomes fortu- 
nate through his wife. (BPHS 26:36) 


* If the 12th lord is placed in the 3rd house, the native will be devoid of fraternal 
bliss, will have hatred for other people, and will promote self-nourishment or be 
self-centered. (BPHS 26:135) 


This is a mutual reception wherein the lords are in a 4/10 relationship from prob- 
lematic houses. There is tension and lack of easy rapport in situations representing 
this pattern, especially sexual adventures or distant travels. 


The native is interested in spiritual liberation and self-improvement, but lacks the 
courage of his convictions to make a daily discipline of his practice. Instead, he may 
perform mean acts in secrecy or in a subversive manner. He may receive sexual initi- 
ation from a sibling or neighbor, and thereafter has an unconventional attitude to- 
wards sexuality. 


He is physically restless, spends money on unwholesome adventures in foreign 
places, and writes about his experiences. He often regrets (the 12th house is hind- 
sight) things he said or did, and should be careful of things put in writing, which 
may come back to haunt him. 


He has health problems related to his hearing, upper limbs and lungs. He will make 
frequent trips to a day clinic. Coordination of hands or fingers is poor and, in some 
cases, may entail total dysfunction or loss of digital control. 


Unless supported by other factors, this exchange suggests the native has neither 
artistic talents nor athletic abilities, but has gifts in the occult arts. He may have 
clairaudient faculties, although the “voices” he hears are not always reliable. 


He incurs expenses on behalf of his siblings, who are sick, unlucky or dispossessed 
of their domestic comforts. Siblings experience frequent change and dislocation in 
their professional lives, or isolation in the form of hospitalization, imprisonment, or 
foreign residence. 


Famous people with this exchange 


Prince Albert, British royalty; Peter Bogdanovitch, director; Lloyd Bridges, actor; 
Rita Mae Brown, writer; Paul Cézanne, artist; Jean Chretien, politician; John Dens- 
more, musician; Richard Dreyfuss, actor; Julie Harris, actress; King Henry IV, French 
royalty; Hal Holbrook, actor; MacGregor Mathers, occultist; Vance Packard, writer; 
Gregory Peck, actor; James Plunkett, football player; Lily Pons, opera singer; Ed- 
ward G. Robinson, actor; Britney Spears, singer; Barbra Streisand, entertainer. 


Case study 


Paul Cézanne was a French artist and post-Impressionist painter who paved the 
transition from 19th-century artistic conceptions to a radically different art in the 
20th century. His explorations of geometric simplification and optical phenomena 
inspired Picasso and others to experiment with more complex views of the same 


subject and eventually to the fracturing of form. 


His father, a successful banker, provided Cézanne a financial security unavailable 
to most of his contemporaries and eventually left him a large inheritance. Cézanne 
was married with one son, but the marriage was stormy, with frequent separations. 


Cézanne’s works were rejected numerous times by the official Salon in Paris, and 
ridiculed by art critics when exhibited with the Impressionists. Yet during his life- 
time he was considered a master by younger artists who visited his studio in Aix-en- 
Provence. 


Despite later public recognition and financial success, Cézanne chose to work in 
increasing artistic isolation, spending long periods as a virtual recluse. He was rude, 
shy, angry, and given to depression. During his so-called “dark period”, his work in- 
cluded erotic and violent subject matter. 


Caught in a downpour one day, he continued working in the field for two hours 
before going home; the next day, he was put to bed, but never left it, dying of 
pneumonia. 


40’ | 
| 4. 26 46' _ | 
| ” , ; | 
a; Asc’ ou 7 vg 
50 19' 
15 co te we a 
31° |42" °* 
yj 13 14 3) 
ny 5 | 06 9 AA 
? O 
a V3 


Mercury in 3rd house Sagittarius is in mutual reception with Jupiter in 12th house 
Virgo. The two share no mutual aspect. Both are in detriment. Mercury is flanked 
on either side by the Sun and Saturn, and square to Mars. Jupiter is associated with 
Mars and the nodal axis, but otherwise forms no aspect with other planets. 


Post-exchange, if Mercury carries its degree into the 12th house, it widely conjoins 
Mars while forming a sextile with Saturn and a trine with Venus. If Jupiter takes its 
degree to the 3rd, it is sextile the Moon. 


3rd house themes are revealed through his novel technique of painting, using 
planes of color and small brush strokes built up to form complex fields of view. 


His early paintings also reflected 12th house themes of sexual obsession, repressed 


anger, violence, pain and frustration. Although ultimately the toast of Parisian art 
society, Cézanne was a recluse for much of his life, preferring the solitude of coun- 
try living and the company of farmers and peasants. 


The exchange of 3rd and 12th house lords is also a signature for bronchial com- 
plaints, of which pneumonia is but one example. 

This is a night birth in which neither planet gains advantage by way of minor recep- 
tions with its exchange partner. Mercury is in a triplicity of Jupiter, while Jupiter is 
ina face of Mercury. 


Thus, neither planet assumes control of this mutual reception, and its interpretation 
rests on the interplay of the two houses. 


Chapter 9 
Exchanges with the 4th house lord 


Exchange of 4th and 5th lords 
Parashara says: 


* If the 4th lord is situated in the 5th house, the native will be happy, be favorite 
of all, devotee of Lord Vishnu, virtuous, honorable, and will possess self-earned 
wealth. (BPHS 26:41) 


* If the Sth lord occupies the 4th house, the native will be happy, having the bless- 
ing of maternal happiness, wealth and intelligence, and be a king or a minister 
or a preceptor. (BPHS 26:52) 


This is a mutual reception wherein the lords are ina 2/12 relationship. This com- 
bination of an angular and trinal lord assures that fortune goes hand in hand with 
commensurate effort. 


The native is intelligent and gets a good education. Possibly as a result of his 
mother's influence, he is spiritually inclined, studies scriptures or classical works, 
and attempts to pass on similar training to his own children. He takes pleasure 
in riding horses or vehicles. His home is a place of learning and contains a good 
library. 


He studies or pursues a career in mining, oceanography, agriculture, civil engineer- 
ing, education, psychology, or social work. He gains through government, the field 

of education, real estate investments, or trade in vehicles of one kind or another. He 
may teach executives, government employees or children. He could be employed as 
a writer-in-residence. 


His mother is interested in religion or education. Her finances are secure. His chil- 
dren are well settled in life and a source of happiness for him, even though they 
may experience loss or significant changes in life. Children may travel abroad or 
immigrate. 


Famous people with this exchange 


Pedro Almodovar, director; Lisa Bonet, actress; Richard Carpenter, musician; Pablo 
Casals, cellist; Derek Clayton, track & field star; Keith Emerson, musician; Greta 
Garbo, actress; Bobby Hull, hockey player; Klaus Kinski, actor; Dean Martin, enter- 
tainer; Joni Mitchell, singer; Bill Moyers, journalist; Joachim Von Ribbentrop, diplo- 
mat; Henri Rousseau, artist; Carlos Santana, musician; Ted Turner, entrepreneur. 


Case study 


Ted Turner, former media mogul turned environmental philanthropist, is among the 
top 300 wealthiest people in the USA. He inherited the family billboard business 
after his father committed suicide. Early in his career he invested in radio stations 
and later switched to TV stations, then to cable networks, founding CNN in 1980. 


He helped reinvent interest in professional wrestling, and is the owner of the At- 
lanta Braves and Atlanta Hawks. A political activist, he's fought for environmental 


causes, population control and nuclear containment, and in 1998 donated $1 billion 
to the United Nations. 


Turner has been married and divorced three times, and has five children. In a 2012 
interview with Piers Morgan, Turner admitted he had four girlfriends, which he ac- 
knowledged was complicated but easier than being married. 


He has received multiple awards in recognition for his civic work, named Humanist 
of the Year in 1990, Time magazine's Man of the Year in 1991, and many other 
accolades. 


In 2008, Turner asserted on PBS that if steps were not taken to address global 
warming, most people would die and “the rest of us will be cannibals.” Indeed, 
Turner’s penchant for controversial statements over the years earned him the nick- 
names “The Mouth of the South” and “Captain Outrageous.” 


= J _@ 


T It 


Wo 


Jupiter in 4th house Aquarius is in mutual reception with Saturn in 5th house Pisces. 
The two share no mutual aspect. Jupiter is ordinary, trine the Moon while squaring 
Sun and Venus, giving him a healthy sense of ego but also a humanitarian bent. Sat- 
urn is bright, trine to Mercury and opposed ascendant lord Mars, giving him busi- 
ness smarts and drive. 


Post-exchange, if Jupiter carries its own degree into the 5th house, it forms trines 
with the Sun and Venus. If Saturn takes its degree into the 4th, it squares Mercury. 


Under exchange, Saturn the significator for undeveloped land moves into the 4th 
house of property. Turner is one of America’s largest private landowners, owning 
15 ranches with a total of approximately 2,000,000 acres. He also owns the largest 
herd of (50,000) bison in the world. 


4th house themes are also evident in his original passion for the Greek classics at 
university, and his command of racing yachts. He successfully defended America’s 
Cup against Australia in 1977 and holds four “Yachtsman of the Year” awards. 


5th house themes include his ownership of multiple sports franchises and TV 
networks. 


His ascendant lord Mars is also involved in another mutual reception with 11th lord 
Mercury in the 1st, an exchange that itself promotes wealth. As noted earlier, al- 


though 40% of the population has one mutual reception in their charts, only 3% has 
two. 


This is a day birth in which Saturn has gained advantage through minor receptions 


with its exchange partner. Saturn is in a face of Jupiter, but Jupiter is in a triplicity, 
term and decan of Saturn. 


Thus, his bright Saturn becomes the control planet in this mutual reception. Its 
position in the 5th house is consistent with Turner’s reputation having being built 
on sports franchises and entertainment networks. 


Exchange of 4th and 6th lords 
Parashara says: 


* In the event of the 4th lord falling in the 6th house, the native will be devoid of 
maternal happiness. He will be given to wrath, be a thief and a man of ques- 
tionable character, self-willed and vicious. (BPHS 26:42) 


* In case the 6th lord is situated in the 4th house, the native will be devoid of 
maternal happiness, intelligent, a tale bearer, jealous, fickle-minded and very 
rich. (BPHS 26:64) 


This is a mutual reception wherein the lords are in a 3/11 relationship. Because 
of the dynamic between the participant planets (angular lord combined with the 
lord of a troublesome house) results will come only grudgingly after a period of 
tribulation. 


The native's values are tainted, and there's a tendency to take an aggressive or 
avaricious approach to dealing with others, such that conflict in the home or the 
community is likely. He experiences health problems via rheumatism or weakness of 
the heart. 


His home is often in a state of renovation or repair. Property and real estate are 
also a source of disputes, leading to lawsuits over ownership, disagreements with 
tenants, houses requiring repair. Vehicles are another source of problems, being ina 
state of disrepair or involving him in accident or injury. 


He must work hard to achieve an education, during which competition is severe. 
He's strongly interested in healing, and has an intuitive approach to diagnosis. Al- 
though there are interruptions or obstacles in completing a degree, he acquires an 
education in medicine, military studies, law enforcement, veterinary science or en- 
vironmental studies. 


He has a great affinity for animals and works as a vet, animal trainer or animal 
rights advocate. He works at home, or spends so much time at work that his office is 
like a home away from home. 


His mother has health problems and is a source of worry or sorrow. If not mentally 
or physically ill, she’s at odds with the native, causing disagreements and enmity. 
She takes many short journeys. Her siblings have good incomes. 


Famous people with this exchange 


Ned Beatty, actor; Eric Burdon, singer; Sandy Dennis, actress; Joan Didion, writer; 
Bob Dylan, musician; George Eliot, writer; Naomi Judd, singer; Stacy Keach, actor; 
Henri Matisse, artist; Nancy Mitford, writer; Gwyneth Paltrow, actress; Rusty Schwe- 
ickart, astronaut; Upton Sinclair, writer; Luchino Visconti, director. 


Case study 


Bob Dylan, musician and songwriter, has written over 300 songs, selling 100 million 
records over a career spanning 50 years. Defying existing pop music conventions, 
his work incorporated political, social, philosophical and literary influences ina 
style once described as surreal talking blues. 


Shy, moody, careless of his health, scared by fame, immaterial but shrewd about 
money, he was a profound intellectual who, despite mixed reviews in his early 
years, was supported by peers Joan Baez and Johnny Cash. 


After a serious motorcycle accident that broke his neck and almost killed him, he 
went into seclusion for eight years before touring again. In later years, his health 
deteriorated. In 1997, he was hospitalized with a life-threatening heart infection. 


He was married twice, with six children, and has been the object of a couple of pa- 
ternity suits. 


He has received multiple awards, including a Golden Globe and a Grammy for Life- 
time Achievement. Despite his loyal fan base, his overall output has been spotty. 
One critic characterized his singing as “a catarrhal death rattle.” Live performances 
have been irregular, and studio productions criticized for sloppiness. One of his 
films was judged an “incoherent mess.” 


A 2007 study of US legal briefs found his lyrics quoted by judges and lawyers more 
than any other songwriter, the most widely cited line being “you don't need a 
weatherman to know which way the wind blows.” 


| ee 


Wo ® 
Mars in 4th house Aquarius is in mutual reception with Saturn in 6th house Aries. 
The two share no mutual aspect. Mars is ordinary and square to the Sun, Jupiter and 
Venus. Saturn is debilitated and conjunct a dark Moon, a poor prognosis for health. 


Post-exchange, if Mars carries its own degree into the 6th house, it is isolated with- 
out aspect. If Saturn takes its degree to the 4th, it forms only an out-of-sign square 
with Mercury, although its new position exactly squaring the ascendant could ag- 
gravate health issues. 

4th house themes are evident in his populist appeal and strong fan base. The 


4th/6th exchange, although not a classic for vehicular accidents, provides the setup 
for related injuries. Heart ailments are to be expected, given the exchange of two 


malefics across these houses, and especially considering Saturn’s debilitation. 


6th house themes have emerged via health problems, litigations (divorce and pater- 
nity suits) and strong alliance with labor movements of the 60s. 


This is a night birth in which Saturn has gained a minor dignity by occupying its 
own term. This however, is not enough to overcome its debilitation. 


As a consequence, neither Mars nor Saturn can really be called a control planet for 
this mutual reception. Therefore, the house exchange simply plays out via vehicular 
problems, heart ailments and emotional unrest. 


Exchange of 4th and 7th lords 
Parashara says: 


* 1f the 4th lord has gone in the 7th house, the native will be highly learned in 
various branches of knowledge, will be apt to leave his paternal property, and 
will be akin to the dumb in an assembly. (BPHS 26:43) 


* In case the 7th lord is situated in the 4th house, the wife of the native will not 
remain under his control. He will himself be truthful, intelligent and religious, 
and he will suffer from dental diseases. (BPHS 26:76) 


This is a mutual reception wherein the lords are in a 4/10 relationship from angular 
houses. With this pattern between angular lords, this exchange implies a certain de- 
gree of community outreach, intertwined in the realm of relationships, moral val- 
ues and happiness. 


The native has a strong desire for education or spiritual liberation, and leaves his 
home in pursuit of it. He gets an education in sales, marketing, public relations, for- 
eign trade, or in matters relating to partnerships, contracts and agreements. 


He is happy at home, and takes pride in his property and/or vehicle(s). He owns a 
foreign car, or is involved in the trade of foreign cars. His happiness depends toa 
considerable degree on the quality (and/or quantity) of his relationships. 


His spouse is very independent, and difficult to contain within the normal confines 
of a marriage. The spouse will have a good professional reputation and be engaged 
in an occupation involving real estate, vehicles, education, or psychology. The 
spouse is comfortable and happy, although perhaps something of a workaholic. 


His mother is extroverted, educated and well-traveled. She may also be involved in 
the purchase and sale of properties. 


Famous people with this exchange 


Gregg Allman, musician; Maya Angelou, poet; Giovanni Falcone, anti-Mafia judge; 
Henry Ford Jr., entrepreneur; Michael J. Fox, actor; Tom Hanks, actor; Odetta, 
singer; Alan Oken, astrologer; Louis Pasteur, scientist; Leon Russell, musician; 
William Shatner, actor; Grace Slick, singer; Paul Theroux, writer; Jack Valenti, direc- 
tor; Dwight Yoakam, singer; Bernard Zuckerman, chess grandmaster. 


Case study 


Maya Angelou was a much-loved American sage, poet, performing artist and author 
of over 12 best-selling books. 


When she was three, her parents divorced and she was raised by her paternal 
grandparents. At age eight she was raped by her mother’s boyfriend, who was sub- 
sequently killed by her outraged uncles. Maya withdrew into isolation and remained 
mute for five years, during which time she developed a love of books. 


A devotee of dance, she performed in nightclubs and off-Broadway productions. 
She worked as a cook and prostitute. She wrote songs, worked as an editor for civil 
rights causes (with Martin Luther King and Malcolm X), wrote and produced a TV se- 
ries and published her memoirs to public acclaim. 


Multilingual as well as multi-talented, Angelou spoke six languages. She was mar- 
ried three times and had one child. She was a striking figure, standing six feet tall 
and wearing signature vibrant colors. 


She received over 50 honorary doctorates and in 1983 was named by Ladies’ Home 
Journal among the One Hundred Most Influential American Women. Bill Clinton in- 
vited her to write the 1993 inaugural poem for his administration. 


In later years she was active on the lecture circuit, giving as many as 80 talks a year. 
She was respected as a spokesperson for black people and women, and her works 
have been considered a defense of Black culture. 


| a? 
| ()2" OS a | 


e038 
SK, Asc V3 
30' 
>) ie It 
26 
TR 19 x 
oe Ny 


Saturn in 4th house Scorpio is in mutual reception with Mars in 7th house Aquarius. 
The two share no mutual aspect. Saturn is bright and involved in multiple aspects: 
conjunct the nodal axis, a wide sextile with the Moon, tightly squared Mercury and 
Venus, trine the Sun and Jupiter. Mars is ordinary but unaspected. 


Post-exchange, if Saturn carries its degree into the 7th house it conjoins Mercury 
and Venus. If Mars takes its degree to the 4th, it forms out-of-sign trines with Mer- 
cury and Venus. 

Before or after exchange, four malefics occupy the angles, signifying a hard life. 4th 
house themes played out in domestic hardship and emotional turmoil, including 
depression. 

7th house themes emerged via troubled relationships, including violence. At the 
same time, her role as a spokesperson for her people carried her fame far and wide. 


This is a day birth in which Saturn has gained advantage through minor receptions 
with its exchange partner. Saturn is in the triplicity of Mars, but Mars is in the trip- 
licity, term and decan of Saturn. 


Therefore, Saturn is the control planet in this mutual reception. Its position in the 


4th may seem difficult to rationalize until we reflect that the 4th represents one’s 
constituency, fans, tribe, and people. As such, Angelou was a spokesperson for an 
entire culture. 


Exchange of 4th and 8th lords 
Parashara says: 


* When the 4th lord happens to be placed in the 8th house, the native will be de- 
void of domestic and other comforts, will not get much paternal happiness, and 
be equal to a neuter. (BPHS 26:44) 


* When the 8th lord occupies the 4th house, the native will be deprived of his 
mother, and there can be no doubt in it that he will be devoid of a house, lands, 
and happiness, and will be a betrayer of friends. (BPHS 26:88) 


This is a mutual reception wherein the lords are in a 5/9 relationship from moksha 
houses. The native may appear unconventional, seeking catharsis via escape from 
the home, maternal influence, community values or conventional morality. 


His state of happiness is disturbed by unfortunate events. His mind is subject to 
addictions and obsessions, so he gets drawn into negative thinking and behavior. He 
suffers heartbreak, figuratively via happiness destroyed, or literally in the form of a 
heart ailment. 


His mother has difficulties, including accidents, surgeries, death in the family, 
and general misfortune. Nevertheless, she gains through speculation or games of 
chance. 


His domestic life is in a constant state of upheaval, with many changes of residence, 
renovations due to accidents, and problems with property insurance. In a similar 
vein, vehicles prove problematic. 


He has deep sexual feelings, and may receive an education or pursue a path that en- 
tails secret teachings regarding sexuality. His morality may be perverted, such that 
he commits crimes of conscience, especially of a sexual nature. He keeps aspects of 
his personality hidden, and may at times go into hiding. 


He has a strong intuition to follow a path of moksha, and foregoes many creature 
comforts, giving up property and inheritance in order to pursue his spiritual libera- 
tion. 


He has difficulty finishing his education, experiencing breaks in studies, and 
changes of direction. He acquires knowledge in the fields of psychology, parapsy- 
chology and the occult, and may write about such subjects. Suitable professions 
include research and investigation, banking and insurance, renovation and rehabili- 
tation, undertaking and estate planning. 


Famous people with this exchange 


Susan Atkins, cult killer; Jean Auel, writer; Bernardo Bertolucci, director; Beau 
Bridges, actor; John Denver, musician; Aretha Franklin, singer; André Gide, writer; 
Rex Harrison, actor; Hans Holzer, occult writer; Jay Leno, talk show host; Kate 
Millett, feminist; Spike Milligan, writer/director; Tip O’Neill, politician; J. Henri 
Poincaré, mathematician; Kiefer Sutherland, actor; John Travolta, actor; Maurice 
Utrillo, artist; King Vidor, producer. 


Case study 


Jay Leno is an American comedian and talk show host. Mildly dyslexic, he majored 
in speech during college studies, and earned his living by performing his comedy 
act at night clubs. 


Leno exemplified clean humor, as opposed to vulgar jokes which others told about 
blacks, gays and women, hiding prejudice behind comedy. He struggled for years 
to make it, watching contemporaries advance in their careers before he succeeded 
Johnny Carson as host of The Tonight Show. 


He has a fleet of over 169 classic cars and 117 motorcycles. He loves to repair me- 
chanical things and has said that if he hadn’t made it as a comedian, he would have 
become an auto mechanic. 


After giving testimony in the 2005 trial of Michael Jackson over allegations of child 
molestation, Leno was banned from telling jokes about Jackson, but exploited a 
legal loophole so other stand-in comedians could take the stage and crack jokes. 
During the 2007-08 writers’ strike, he was accused of violating guidelines by writing 
his own monologue. 


After orchestrating his “retirement” in 2008 from The Tonight Show in favor of 
Conan O’Brien, Leno and NBC reneged on the arrangement, much to the chagrin of 
O'Brien and his fans. As a result, Leno was viewed as a bad guy and seriously ma- 
ligned in the press. 


Oe Sip 


Ww z oy) 
4’ oy 
pe Oana Ql' Lig R 


52" 19 
10' \ \ 
Z @ 
| | 
\ | 29 4 | 
VB ASC Th 
04 2 
09 45) : 2 
4. ag 44! 16 e 8 
wa P/ 2 4 8 
& 
, ns 


The Sun in 4th house Aries is in mutual reception with Mars in 8th house Leo. The 
two share no mutual aspect. The Sun is exalted, sextile Jupiter, and trine to the 
Moon and Saturn. Mars is bright, in tight opposition to Venus, and an out-of-sign 
trine with Mercury. 


Post-exchange, if the Sun carries its degree into the 8th house, it conjoins the Moon 
and Saturn while opposing Jupiter. If Mars takes its degree to the 4th, it forms a sex- 
tile with Venus and an out-of-sign conjunction with Mercury. 


4th house themes are strongly evident in his vast collection of vehicles, while the 
8th house theme arises from his repair and restoration work. This is perhaps as 
good an example as any by which to remind readers that, although an individual 
may be famous for one thing, an exchange pattern in the chart may reveal some- 
thing entirely different, more personal than professional. 


For instance, consider Leno’s dubious ethics, which are muddied by the exchange 
of 4th and 8th lords. Despite being a proponent of clean jokes for the sake of his 
fans and the public, Leno has always taken care of #1. His exploitation of a legal 
loophole during the embargo on Michael Jackson jokes, his violation of the writers’ 
strike guidelines, and his reversal on surrendering the host slot of The Tonight 
Show to Conan O’Brien all point to someone who has a hard time letting go. 

This is a night birth wherein Mars has gained some advantage via minor dignities. 
Mars is in its own term, face and decan while the Sun is in its own face and decan. 
When we review primary dignities, however, we note that the Sun is exalted while 
Mars is just ordinary. Therefore, we may judge the Sun as control planet for this 
mu-tual reception. Its placement in the 4th, however mundane, evokes his great 
love of cars. 


Exchange of 4th and 9th lords 
Parashara says: 


* If the 4th lord is situated in the 9th house, the native will be loved by one and 
all, be a devotee of God, virtuous, honorable and blessed with every kind of hap- 
piness. (BPHS 26:45) 


* {f the 9th lord is situated in the 4th house, the native will be endowed with the 
happiness of having houses and conveyances, will have all kinds of wealth, and 
be devoted to his mother. (BPHS 26:100) 


This is a mutual reception wherein the lords are in a 6/8 relationship. Although this 
person may experience moral dilemmas, especially within a marital relationship, he 
eventually resolves his difficulties by deferring to his moral compass. 


The native will have high moral standards, and be a model of ethical behavior for 

those among his circle. Such a person always follows his higher conscience, for his 
desire is to approach God. He is respected, achieves a certain reputation within his 
milieu, and enjoys the comforts of his status. 


His parents are spiritual, well-educated and well-traveled. His father experiences 
setbacks in life. His mother is vulnerable to common ailments or disease. 


He benefits through real estate, vehicles, domestic articles and things beneath the 
ground. The home displays religious objects, or a portion of the home is dedicated 
to a spiritual practice. Alternatively, the home is located near a religious establish- 
ment, or has the appearance of such an establishment. 


He is fond of foreign travel, and pursues an advanced degree during the course of 
his travels. He is adept in philosophy, law and spiritual subjects. He is close to his 
teacher or guru, and may himself become a teacher. 


Famous people with this exchange 


Willy Brandt, politician; Keith Haring, artist; Kevin Kline, actor; Charles Lamb, 
essayist; Andreas Papandreou, politician; Simone Signoret, actress; Aaron Spelling, 
producer; Lana Turner, actress; Gianni Versace, designer. 


Case study 


Lana Turner, an American film and television actress, was discovered at age 16. With 
over 50 films to her credit, most of her roles were due to her elegance, poise and the 
ability to project promiscuous sensuality. 


She was the only daughter of teenaged parents who struggled to make ends meet. 
Her father was murdered when she was nine. Her mother worked 80 hours a week as 
a beautictan. 


Her role in The Postman Always Rings Twice established her as a serious actor. She 
later received an Academy Award nomination for her role in the movie Peyton Place. 


Turner's personal life was as melodramatic as her films. She was married eight 
times (twice to the same man), and always in and out of sexual escapades. She once 
quipped, “My goal was to have one husband and seven children, but it turned out 
the other way around.” 


She had one abortion and several miscarriages, made more than one suicide at- 
tempt, and was involved in several lawsuits. Her daughter stabbed one of Lana’s 
lovers to death. 


She smoked and drank heavily, had throat cancer twice, and at one time weighed 
only 95 pounds. After her final divorce in 1969 she claimed she had no desire to 
marry again and was celibate for the rest of her life. She stopped drinking, ate or- 
ganic food, and embraced a spiritual life. 


| Soe 
1 as 
3 03 | 12 0 3 
U es uke © 
08 - ss 26 


| 
\ OS 34 
TT Asc aula 
= 11 ) 
; 08 
10° AT’ 
ree} 24 00 $2 OQ 
ee ee ee 
Soe ee 


Saturn in 4th house Virgo is in mutual reception with Mercury in 9th house Aquar- 

ius. The two share no mutual aspect. Saturn is bright and opposes Mars. Along with 
Venus, this places three troublesome planets, ie, the 6th, 8th and 12th lords, in the 
angles to give her some misery and make it public too. 


Ascendant lord Mercury is unaspected. Its association with a dark Moon in a Saturn- 
ruled sign is perhaps indicative of her unhappy life. 


Post-exchange, if Saturn carries its own degree into the 9th house, it conjoins the 
Moon. If Mercury takes its degree to the 4th, it forms a partile (Qdeg42min) opposi- 
tion with exalted Venus. 


4th/9th house themes (especially note the 6/8 relationship) played out in struggles 
and misfortunes for both parents. Legal disputes regarding her estate might also be 
read into this, since she left her maid the bulk of her fortune despite a legal chal- 
lenge from her daughter. 


The 9th house theme of spirituality only emerged in her later years after she’d ex- 
hausted her material side. In 1980, Turner said she had a “spiritual awakening” and 
became a devout Roman Catholic. 


This is a day birth in which Mercury achieves additional strength through minor dig- 
nities and receptions with its exchange partner. Mercury is in a triplicity of Saturn, 
but occupies its own face and decan. Meanwhile, Saturn is in both a term and decan 


of Mercury. 


Thus, Mercury can be considered the control planet for this mutual reception. Its 
placement in the 9th house is indicative of the spiritual awakening that marked her 


twilight years. 


Exchange of 4th and 10th lords 
Parashara says: 


* Should the 4th lord occupy the 10th house, the native will enjoy royal honors, be 
an alchemist, be extremely pleased, will have pleasures, and will be conqueror 
of his five senses. (BPHS 26:46) 


* Should the 10th lord be situated in the 4th house, the native will enjoy happi- 
ness, be devoted to his mother and be interested in her welfare, will have con- 
veyances, lands and houses, be virtuous and wealthy. (BPHS 26:112) 


This is a mutual reception wherein the lords are in a 7/7 relationship from angular 
houses. The bond between these two lords in mutual sign-to-sign aspect further 
strengthens each other's significations. 


The native’s moral standards are made known within his social milieu, such that his 
ethical conduct becomes a subject for public scrutiny and commentary. On balance, 
his standards are consistent with those of the public at large. He is interested and 
involved in politics. He may identify strongly with his community, his constituency, 
his country — and vice versa — thus qualifying him for a spokesperson or leadership 
role. 


His mother is successful in business, enjoys an excellent reputation within her social 
circle and may be well-travelled. However, she may not enjoy a long life span. 


He gets an education related to business, eg, degrees in commerce or finance, or a 
license in real estate. He is inclined to a career in agriculture, mining, construction, 
hotel management, car dealerships, real estate, etc, but also professions such as ed- 
ucation, architecture, psychology, social work and government. 


His home may be used as his place of business, for significant social functions, or 
enjoy some status as a heritage site. 


Famous people with this exchange 


Napoleon Bonaparte I, Emperor; Bernadette Brady, astrologer; José Ferrer, actor; 
Jean Luc Godard, director; Guglielmo Marconi, scientist; Michel de Nostradamus, 
prophet; Auguste Renoir, artist; lvana Trump, socialite; Kurt Waldheim, politician. 


Case study 


Ivana Trump is a former world-class skier with a Master’s degree. Born in Czecho- 

slovakia, she immigrated to Canada and for a time was a model for several top fur 
companies. She moved to New York to help promote the 1976 Montreal Olympics 
and there met Donald Trump. 


She became heavily involved in Trump’s extensive hotel empire, was appointed Vice 
President of Interior Design, and awarded Hotelier of the Year in 1990. After Donald 
Trump’s affair with Marla Maples became public, Ivana sued for divorce, pursuing 

a larger settlement than had been outlined in their pre-nuptial agreement. Aside 
from her marriage to Trump, there’d been one husband earlier, and two later, but 
none that lasted. 


Subsequent to her divorce from Trump, she developed lines of clothing, fashion 


jewelry, and beauty products that have been successfully sold through television 
shopping channels. She’s also written several bestselling books, and penned a di- 
vorce advice column. 


A cameo role in the movie Hollywood Wives pretty much sums up her philosophy: 
“Remember girls: don’t get mad, get everything.” 


J, - ae 
a dp | 
me “y I 
47 

fe) 

T Bos 38° ° 
el a | ee 
| 42" ul 

mige fh aBhee a 
my i” = . Sdiep 
fs Aiko eles, 22 
oe os Z 13 v 
? Oo O Jd 
AR 


The Sun in 4th house Aquarius is in mutual reception with Saturn in 10th house 
Leo. Both are in detriment. The two are in close opposition, further highlighting the 
themes of their respective houses. Since Sun and Saturn are malefics and mutual 
enemies, this lends tension to that age-old dilemma of home versus career, private 
versus public life. 


Saturn is bright and elevated, anchoring one end of a T-Square that includes the 
Sun, Moon and Mars. The Sun is obviously involved from the other end of that same 
T-Square, but aspects no other planets. 


Post-exchange, since the Sun and Saturn are close in degree, the pattern above is 
merely perpetuated. Since both exchange planets continue to interact via “hard” 
aspects with Mars and a Mars-ruled Moon in the ascendant, this explains lvana’s for- 
midable and feisty personality. 


4th house themes are very evident in her career as hotelier, while 10th house 
themes are equally dominant as socialite, spokesperson and columnist. 


This is a night birth, wherein Saturn has gained marginal advantage through minor 
dignities and receptions with its exchange partner. Saturn is in its own face and oc- 
cupies a decan of the Sun, while the Sun is in a decan of Saturn. 


Largely due to its status as a bright and elevated planet, Saturn assumes control of 
this mutual reception. Although she’s enjoyed success in her own right, lvana’s es- 
sential claim to fame was as a socialite, which is reflected in Saturn’s position in the 
10th. 


Exchange of 4th and 11th lords 
Parashara says: 


* In case the 4th lord has gone in the 11th house, the native will be obsessed with 
fear of secret disease, be liberal, virtuous, charitable and helpful to others. 
(BPHS 26:47) 


* In case the 11th lord is situated in the 4th house, the native will have gains from 
maternal relatives, will make pilgrimages, and will possess happiness of house 
and lands. (BPHS 26:124) 


This is a mutual reception wherein the lords are in a 6/8 relationship. Because of 
this dynamic, the native may experience some struggle in the realization of his hap- 
piness, hopes and dreams, but ultimately his ambitions are fulfilled. 


The native enjoys financial gains from his mother. Although she experiences many 
setbacks and reversals in life, including accidents and surgeries, she is often en- 
gaged in social networks and enjoys profitable ventures. She may enjoy easy access 
to capital. 


He shares his home and vehicles with his friends, who are a source of comfort and 
happiness. His friends are educated, interested in a spiritual life, and have good eth- 
ical standards. 


His elder siblings get a good education and are involved in careers such as teaching, 
real estate, property management, and agriculture. However, his elder siblings may 
be prone to common ailments or disease. 


He establishes goals for his education, and is successful in completing them as per 
his plans. Money spent on education turns out to be a good investment, and pre- 
pares him for success in the entertainment or hospitality fields. He earns money 
from the sale of property, vehicles and home articles. 


Famous people with this exchange 


Jean-Paul Belmondo, actor; Dirk Bogarde, actor; David Cassidy, singer/actor; Anton 
Chekhov, writer; Johnny Dundee, boxer; King Farouk, Egyptian royalty; Helen 
Frankenthaler, artist; Frederic Van Norstrand, astrologer. 


Case study 


King Farouk, the last king of Egypt, was educated in England and ruled 1937-1952. 
His reign began with promise but ended in scandal. Farouk loved a glamorous life- 
style. Although owning vast properties, dozens of palaces and hundreds of cars, he 
often went to Europe for shopping sprees. 


His interests leaned away from politics and toward fast cars and women. His 
personal vehicle was a red 1947 Bentley. Married three times, he had dozens of 
mistresses. 


His appetite was legendary. Breakfast was 30 eggs with toast and sweet tea. After 
a dinner of lobster, steak or lamb, he’d snack on caviar or ice cream. It's said he ate 
600 oysters a week. Although he never drank alcohol, the slender boy-king became 
a bloated gourmand who couldn’t get into his sports car. 


He had a lifelong habit of collecting. He owned a 94-carat diamond and other jew- 
els. He amassed one of the world’s finest coin collections, and was reputed to own a 
huge collection of pornography. 


With Farouk regarded a corrupt playboy, an army coup in 1952 forced his abdica- 
tion. Exiled in Rome, he indulged himself in every debauchery, growing increasingly 
obese, “a stomach with a head.” He rented entire hotels for parties and gambled 
with pathological abandon in Monte Carlo. At restaurants he’d literally order ev- 
erything on the menu. While stuffing himself one night, a heart attack killed him at 
age 45. 


ny 
a ee 


The Sun in 4th house Capricorn is in mutual reception with Saturn in 11th house 
Leo. The two share no mutual aspect. The Sun is ordinary, square the Moon and in 
an out-of-sign conjunction with Mercury. Saturn is in detriment, but is bright, in 
sextile with Mars and trine to Venus. 

Post-exchange, if the Sun carries its degree into the 11th house, it forms a sextile 
with the Moon, a trine with Venus. If Saturn takes its degree to the 4th, it squares 
Mars and opposes Jupiter. 

4th house themes are evident in the initial embrace of his people (as the first Arab- 
speaking Egyptian king), and his great love of cars. 11th house themes played out in 
his over-the-top social life, and his unchecked desire to collect almost everything he 
coveted. 

(Note: in Light on Life, deFouw & Svoboda, the common significations of the 11th 
house are said to include jewelry, vehicles, the paraphernalia of luxury, and playful 
sexual acts.) 

This is a night birth wherein neither planet gains much by way of minor dignities or 
receptions. The Sun is in its own face, but in a term of Saturn. Therefore, we return 
to basic principles and judge Saturn, due to its brightness, the control planet for 


this mutual reception 


Saturn’s placement in the 11th house is but a sad reflection of Farouk’s playboy 
lifestyle, in that he accomplished nothing of political consequence in his 15-year 
reign except to indulge himself in luxuries and parties. 


Exchange of 4th and 12th lords 
Parashara says: 


* {f the 4th lord is situated in the 12th house, the native will be devoid of domestic 
and other comforts, will have vices and be foolish and indolent. (BPHS 26:48) 


* In the event of the 12th lord being placed in the 4th house, the native will be de- 
void of maternal happiness and will day by day have losses in respect of lands, 
conveyances and houses. (BPHS 26:136) 


This is a mutual reception wherein the lords are in a 5/9 relationship from moksha 
houses. Because of this relationship, the native may appear restless, seeking release 
from the confines of home, maternal influence, community values or conventional 
morality. 


The native needs lengthy periods of quiet and tranquility to find peace within his 
heart. For this reason, he takes retreats in ashrams or places of worship. Since his 
happiness depends upon his spiritual liberation, he may surrender his attachments 
to property in order to be free. He lives a vagrant life for periods of time, and is an 
advocate of the homeless. 


He is prone to illness and his health gradually suffers. His mother suffers poor 
health as well, and her longevity is poor. Nevertheless, she too undertakes foreign 
travels. 


His happiness depends upon his sexual fulfillment, and he experiences a struggle 
between his spiritual aspirations and sexual desires. He has sexual relations with a 
woman who is similar in appearance or temperament to his mother. 


Foreign travel is a major life theme. He travels in search of spiritual liberation, and 
makes his residence abroad. He pursues his education in a foreign country. He buys 
foreign property, suffers losses through property investments, or gives up a portion 
of his property to another. He owns or leases a foreign car. 


Because he is philosophically unattached, he becomes involved in charities and not- 
for-profit organizations, especially those with an international scope of operations. 


Famous people with this exchange 


Roseanne Barr, comedienne; Roberto Benigni, actor; William Burroughs, writer; 
Kirk Douglas, actor; Sandy Duncan, actress; John Ehrlichman, Presidential advisor; 
Melissa Etheridge, musician; Richard Houck, astrologer; Janis Joplin, singer; Ken 
Keyes, archetypal hippy; Thomas Merton, writer/mystic; Louis XV, King of France; 
Liz Smith, gossip columnist; Simon Wiesenthal, Nazi hunter. 


Case study 


Thomas Merton was a French-American writer, poet, monk, mystic and social critic 
whose writing reached the bestseller lists. In 1941 he entered a Trappist monastery 
in rural Kentucky and was ordained in 1949 after eight years of silence. 


He was a study in contradictions. He craved solitude, but also enjoyed the occa- 
sional drink, loved jazz, and delighted in scatological humor. He rose daily at 3:15 
AM to pray for seven hours, but once fell recklessly in love with a woman half his 


age. 


An expert Latinist, he translated all the works of the 13th-century monastic mas- 
ters. His first book, Seven Storey Mountain sold 600,000 copies in its first year, cap- 
turing readers like few books since Saint Augustine's Confessions. A prolific writer, 
he wrote more than 70 books, mostly on spirituality, social justice and pacifism. 


His death was bizarre. During a six-month trip through Asia, the longest of his 
otherwise cloistered life, he stepped out of a shower in a cottage near Bangkok, 
reached for a fan with defective wiring and was instantly electrocuted. 


peer |) 


& 
Oy 
12) 


© 


03 
2k 
GO ww a 


Saturn in 4th house Gemini is in mutual reception with Mercury in 12th house 
Aquarius. The two are in a tight trine. Saturn is bright and in aspect with two other 
benefics - opposed Venus and trine Jupiter. 


Mercury is conjoined the ascendant lord Jupiter, and this pairing of two intellectual 
planets is amplified by their tight alignment with the nodal axis. Mercury is further 
stabilized by a sextile with Venus. 


Post-exchange, since the two participants are so close in degree, they simply swap 
their relationships with other planets. Their close common affiliation with Jupiter 
in particular provides a clue to both Merton’s bedrock of spirituality and his prolific 
writing. 

The 4th/12th exchange played itself out in multiple ways: many changes of resi- 
dence throughout his childhood, time spent at French boarding schools, university 
education in England and, ultimately, immigration to America. On a more personal 
level, his mother died of stomach cancer when he was only seven. 


During his university years at Cambridge, 12th house themes emerged via a rela- 
tively dissolute lifestyle - reckless spending, nights spent drinking in jazz clubs, and 
womanizing. 


In his maturity, the 12th house revealed the other side of its coin in seclusion, 
monastic life, vows of renunciation and meditation. He also became a keen 
propo-nent of inter-faith understanding, especially Eastern religions, and engaged 
in dia-logue and correspondence with leading figures like the Dalai Lama, DT Suzuki 
and Thich Nhat Hanh. 


Ultimately, death in a foreign land is also a 4th/12th signature. 


This is a day birth wherein Saturn gains status via a combination of minor dignities 
and receptions with its exchange partner. Both Saturn and Mercury are in a triplicity 
of Saturn. Saturn is ina term and decan of Mercury, while Mercury is ina term and 
decan of Saturn. 

Thus, Saturn assumes marginal control of the mutual reception, yet there is a re- 
markable degree of symbiosis between these two, courtesy of their sign exchange, 
their close trine, and the inter-receptivity of their terms and decans. 

Given Mercury's conjunction with ascendant lord Jupiter, amplified by its partile 
(Odeg27min) alignment with north node Rahu, that's enough to judge it the control 
planet for this mutual reception. Certainly its 12th house placement is consistent 
with the monastic life epitomized by Merton. 


Chapter 10 
Exchanges with the 5th house lord 


Exchange of 5th and 6th lords 
Parashara says: 


* In the event of the 5th lord being relegated to the 6th house, the native’s son will 
be equal to his enemy, or he will die, or the native will acquire an adopted or a 
purchased son. (BPHS 26:54) 


* In the event of the 6th lord occupying the Sth house, the native’s wealth will be 
always fluctuating, he will contract enmity with his son and friend, be happy, 
selfish and kind. (BPHS 26:65) 


This is a mutual reception wherein the lords are in a 2/12 relationship. This dynamic 
may cause problems with the cognitive faculties, spiritual practices, children and 
pets. 


The native lacks mental clarity and experiences intellectual obstacles that affect 

his studies. His spiritual practices are inconsistent, based upon competition and the 
desire to gain something over others, ie, spiritual materialism. He develops a sort of 
religious fanaticism and is intolerant of other faiths. 


He has health problems, the sources of which are mental or spiritual. Hypochondria 
is one possible manifestation, spiritual malaise another. The weak link is often the 
digestive system. 


In romance, he invites conflicts. He tries to gain intimacy too quickly, and treats the 
partner with hostility if things don't go his way. He acts in an unscrupulous and self- 
serving manner, and may cheat on his partner. 


The person can experience problems having children, eg, abortions, miscarriages or 
premature illnesses terminating the child’s life. Even if the person has a child, there 
is friction between them, such that real enmity may develop. If lieu of having a child 
naturally, adoption is a possibility, as is the acquisition of pets as surrogate chil- 
dren. Children are a cause of worry on account of their health, although they enjoy 
financial success. 


He is employed in a field related to education, the entertainment industry or cre- 
ative endeavors of some sort. His investments may not pan out. He acts upon a self- 
defeating intuition, and sustains losses despite repeated attempts to profit. His ene- 
mies are numerous, and they interfere with his luck in life. 


Famous people with this exchange 


Susan Atkins, cult killer; Bjorn Borg, tennis player; E.E. Cummings, poet; Otto Hahn, 
scientist; Jeddu Krishnamurti, guru; Elisabeth Kubler-Ross, psychiatrist; Alphee 
Lavoie, astrologer; Gordon Lightfoot, musician; Jackie Mason, comedian; Matthew 
McConaughey, actor; John Milton, poet; Michael Munkasey, astrologer; Kenny 
Rogers, entertainer; Murray Rose, Olympic swimmer; David Souter, Supreme Court 
jurist; William Styron, writer; Jerry West, basketball player. 


Case study 


Elisabeth Kubler-Ross was a Swiss psychiatrist and author who became famous for 
her book, On Death and Dying, chronicling her work with terminal patients. Edu- 
cated first as a doctor, against the objections of her father, she later became very 
critical of the medical profession. 


She was an ardent hiker, mountain climber and skier. She admitted to a short fuse, 
great highs and lows and an overly idealistic nature. She had an excellent memory, 
nearly total recall, and was a workaholic. 


She had several out-of-the-body experiences during her lifetime, was interested in 
the occult, and through her counseling of the terminally ill, became expert in the 
five stages of grief: denial, anger, bargaining, depression, and acceptance. 


She was the recipient of 20 honorary degrees and taught over 125,000 students in 
death and dying courses at colleges, seminaries, medical schools, hospitals, and so- 
cial-work institutions. 


One of her ambitions was to build a hospice for children with AIDS. But when she 
announced in Virginia that she was adopting 20 HIV-infected babies, her house was 
burned to the ground and her pet llama was shot. 


Despite four miscarriages, she had one son and one daughter. She suffered a series 
of strokes that left her confined to a wheelchair until her death. 


Me... 0 


x 6 MY 


The Moon in 5th house Gemini is in mutual reception with Mercury in 6th house 
Cancer. The two share no mutual aspect. The Moon is dark and waning in the last 
day before a new moon, in very wide trine with Jupiter. Mercury is ordinary but par- 
ticipates in multiple aspects — sextile Venus, square Saturn and trine Mars. 


Post-exchange, if the Moon carries its degree into the 6th house, it forms only a 
wide sextile with Venus. If Mercury takes its degree to the 5th, it becomes moder- 


ately combust, square Mars and trine Saturn. 


The themes of the Sth/6th exchange were revealed in personal health difficulties, 
including a near-death experience due to a bowel obstruction. Four out of six preg- 
nancies resulted in miscarriages. 


The 5th/6th exchange also reflected her compassion for the sick, especially chil- 
dren, as evidenced in her work with HIV-infected infants, which ambition brought 
her into conflict with her local community. Even her pet became collateral damage 
in this battle (the 6th represents pets, and the Sth is their loss). 


No stranger to 6th house conflict, she was known as being abrasive and critical of 
the medical profession. She was nonetheless acknowledged as a compassionate 
caregiver, providing assistance in their dying moments to over 20,000 terminal 
patients. 

This is a night birth in which Mercury gains status in minor dignities and receptions 
with its exchange partner. Mercury is in its own term and face, while the Moon is ina 
triplicity of Mercury. 

Thus Mercury can be considered the control planet for this mutual reception. Its 
placement in the 6th house is entirely consistent with her role as caregiver to the 
terminally ill. Note also that the 6th is the 12th (surrender) for the other. 


Exchange of 5th and 7th lords 
Parashara says: 


* If the 5th lord is situated in the 7th house, the native will be tolerant of all 
religions and very religious, endowed with progenic happiness, and be helpful to 
others. (BPHS 26:55) 


* Should the 7th lord occupy the 5th house, the native will be a man of honor, 
gifted with all the virtues, always delighted, and endowed with all kinds of 
wealth. (BPHS 26:77) 


This is a mutual reception wherein the lords are in a 3/11 relationship. Because of 
this pattern, there is bias for mental preoccupation with relationships of all kinds, 
whether social, professional or intimate. 


The native is spiritually inclined, travels to seek enlightenment, and is tolerant of 
other faiths. He is clever in business, and succeeds in fields of speculation, sports, 
entertainment, and anything to do with children. He is a good deal-maker, and is 
skilled in forging contracts and agreements. 


He has an active intellect, often has sex on his mind, and is very attracted to 
ephemeral relationships. He develops a love affair during the course of his educa- 
tion. He finds (monogamous) marital life a strain, and is frequently separated from 
his spouse and children. 


His spouse is active, intelligent, spiritual and youthful. The spouse succeeds through 
her own efforts, but her longevity is not good. His children are adventurous, ath- 
letic, artistic, interested in travel and productive in earning a good income. 


This exchange favors careers in political diplomacy, talent representation, and cre- 
ative collaboration of all sorts. 


Famous people with this exchange 


Warren Beatty, actor; Hector Berlioz, composer; Judy Blume, writer; Roger Corman, 
director; Christopher Darden, attorney; Daniel Day-Lewis, actor; Richard Idemon, 
astrologer; Lindsay Lohan, actor; Bette Bao Lord, writer; Anne McCaffrey, writer; 
James Earl Ray, assassin; Curtis Sliwa, Guardian Angel; Marcia Starck, astrologer; 
Duke of Wellington, militarist; Malcolm X, political activist. 


Case study 


Warren Beatty is an American actor, producer, screenwriter and director. Strikingly 
handsome with a style that is self-consciously cool and opaque, he was the classic 
screen idol of his day. He has been nominated for 14 Oscars, including his perfor- 
mance in 1967 for Bonnie and Clyde. He won the Oscar as Best Director in 1981 for 
Reds. 


Although known more for his acting than his writing, Beatty was nominated four 
times for Best Screenplay, which he received three times. He is the only person to 
have been nominated for best producer, director, writer and actor in the same film, 
both for Heaven Can Wait and Reds. 


Aside from his movie career, Beatty has achieved the dubious reputation of having 


been a notorious womanizer and lover to a large number of Hollywood and society 
women. A partial list includes Cher, Brigitte Bardot, Elle Macpherson, Goldie Hawn, 
Jackie Onassis, Joan Collins, Joni Mitchell, Madonna and Mary Tyler Moore. 


—_-—+ 


ig id 3 : 


@ 
3 


| 49° 16 
| 3 64 
| | 
\ = "16! 
\ OS 
mm Asc WM 
13 
60. @) 
{°° 18'50 y} 
_ jee, He 


Ny 
Jupiter in Sth house Capricorn is in mutual reception with Saturn in 7th house 
Pisces. They are in sextile aspect. Jupiter is debilitated and is also sextile the Moon. 


Saturn is ordinary, associated by sign with ascendant lord Mercury and the Sun 
without combustion, meanwhile forming trines with the Moon and Mars. 


Post-exchange, if Jupiter carries its degree into the 7th house, it is trine the Moon. If 
Saturn takes its degree to the Sth, it forms sextiles with both the Moon and Mars. 


Before or after exchange, both planets maintain a relationship with the Moon. Since 
the Moon occupies one kama house (the 3rd) while owning another (the 11th) this 
reflects an almost compulsive (Moon in Scorpio) desire to form sexual (Moon with 
strong Mars) relationships. 


The 5th/7th exchange thus played out in an extremely active sex life, wherein this 
notion of sex-on-the-brain (Sth house mind, 7th house sex) is pretty much epito- 
mized in Warren Beatty’s pre-marital lifestyle. 


The same exchange can also be used to explain his highly creative role in the course 
of his movie career, whether as a writer involved in multiple projects (many of 
which fell by the wayside), as a director marshaling creative talent, or more generi- 
cally, in his sometimes-spotty record as producer in collaboration with many of Hol- 
lywood’s luminaries of the day, in front of or behind the camera. 


This is a day birth in which neither planet gains any advantage over the other 
through minor dignities or receptions. Jupiter and Saturn are each in their own 
faces. Jupiter is in the decan of Saturn while Saturn is in the decan of Jupiter. 


Since we can’t determine the control planet from this method, we review their 
primary dignities. Jupiter is debilitated while Saturn is ordinary but associated with 


the ascendant lord. This would justify calling Saturn the control planet for this mu- 
tual reception. Certainly its placement in the 7th highlights his infamous love life 
prior to marriage. 


Exchange of 5th and 8th lords 
Parashara says: 


* In the event of the 5th lord being relegated to the 8th house, the native will have 
less progenic happiness, will be troubled by cough and pulmonary or respiratory 
diseases, be given to anger and be devoid of happiness. (BPHS 26:56) 


* If the 8th lord happens to fall in the 5th house, the native will be dull witted. He 
will have a few children and be long-lived and wealthy. (BPHS 26:89) 


This is a mutual reception wherein the lords are in a 4/10 relationship. Because of 
this dynamic, mental stress and trauma arises. 


The native’s purva punya (karma from the previous life) renders a dulled intellect, 
such that his mind occupies a tamasik (lethargic) state, incapable of contemplat- 
ing a higher order of things. As a result of flawed thinking, he commits sins, first 
through his thoughts, then through actions that lead to his self-undoing. 


His mind is often concerned, even obsessed, with sexual subjects. He may have an 
unusual, even aberrant, sexuality. He may have suffered sexual abuse as a child. He 
suffers psychosomatic ills, wherein the mind itself is the primary cause of feeling ill- 
at-ease. Anger is a root cause of many ills. 


His love affairs are generally unhappy, falling into a sort of love/hate relationship, 
where an all-or-nothing attitude prevails. 


He experiences difficulties with respect to children, eg, abortion, miscarriage, ill- 
ness, or accidents. Even if his children are healthy, there are problems in their lives, 
or in his relationship with them. In extreme cases, there may be death of children. 
He receives no benefits through inheritance, although his children do. His children 
may be involved in the purchase and sale of vehicles or properties. 


He is interested in esoteric or occult subjects. Mysteries, death, and the after-life are 
fascinations for him. He may study subjects so far removed from the contemporary 
that they seem “dead”, eg, the so-called dead languages, archaeology, antiques, oc- 
cult subjects, etc. 


He makes bad investments, suffers irrevocable losses, and goes into debt. Gambling 
may become an obsession. 


Famous people with this exchange 


Johann Elert Bode, astronomer; Honoré Daumier, artist; Roy Firebrace, astrologer; 
Amy Fisher, attempted murderer; Jean Harlow, actress; Lena Horne, singer; Jo- 
hannes Kepler, astronomer; Sam Peckinpah, director; Harold Pinter, playwright; 
Jane Roberts, mystic/author; Dennis Rodman, basketball player; Diana Ross, singer; 
lan Douglas Smith, politician; Jackie Stewart, race car driver. 


Case study 


Dennis Rodman is a retired American professional basketball forward, who played 
for the Detroit Pistons, Chicago Bulls and other NBA teams. He has also been a 
professional wrestler and an actor in several reality series. His visibility as a pro- 
fessional athlete was further leveraged by his exhibitionistic attire and personal 


adornment, including wearing articles of women’s clothing on the basketball court. 


Rodman experienced an unhappy childhood, thinks about death a lot and has 
seriously contemplated suicide at least once. Post-NBA, his career has lurched from 
one misadventure to another, including celebrity wrestling matches and reality 
shows. Substance abuse continues to dog him, and he’s gotten into trouble numer- 
ous times, mouthing obscenities or saying outrageous things while on camera. 


Aside from a relationship with Madonna and a very short marriage to Carmen 
Electra, his best friend has been Kim Jong Un, the boy-dictator of North Korea. Rod- 
man's relationship with Kim Jong Un has baffled his fans and the US State Depart- 
ment alike. 


12) 


ne 
The Moon in 5th house Aries is in mutual reception with Mars in 8th house Cancer. 
The two are in tight square. Both are weak. The Moon is dark and waning within a 
day and a half of a new moon, while Mars is debilitated. The Moon and Mars also 
participate in a cardinal T-Square involving a strong Saturn and a weak Jupiter. 


Given the collective distress of three weak planets (Moon, Mars and Jupiter) in this 
T-Square centered on the 5th house, it’s little wonder that Rodman’s thinking is at 
times at variance with the normal. 


Post-exchange, since the two planets are so close in degree, this merely results in 
swapping positions within this somewhat toxic T-Square. Thus, both planets main- 
tain relationships with a weak Jupiter and a strong Saturn, resulting in a manic-de- 
pressive cycle of highs and lows. 


The 5th house themes are revealed in his gamesmanship, showmanship, eclectic 
love life that included a transsexual partner, and his declaration that he thinks 
like a bisexual. The 8th house of irregularities reveals itself in various peculiarities, 
whether in his choice of attire, friendships or career pursuits. 


The archetypal party animal, he’s had many altercations with the police, including 


drunk driving, domestic abuse and no less than 70 calls for police to quell loud 
noise from his raucous house parties. 

This is a night birth in which Mars has gained dubious status through minor digni- 
ties and receptions with its exchange partner. Mars is in its own triplicity and decan, 
while the Moon is in a face and decan of Mars. 


Thus, Mars despite its debility becomes the control planet in this mutual reception. 
Its placement in the 8th house is representative of Rodman’s public role as rebel- 
lious oddball. 


Exchange of 5th and 9th lords 
Parashara says: 


* Should the Sth lord be placed in the 9th house, the native will be a prince or 
equal to a prince, be an illustrious author, and be illustrious in his family. (BPHS 
26:57) 


* Should the 9th lord be placed in the 5th house, the native will have the blessings 
of sons and good fortune. He will be devoted to his elders and teachers, will 
have fortitude, be religious and charitable and learned. (BPHS 26:101) 


This is a mutual reception wherein the lords are in a 5/9 relationship from trinal 
houses. Because of this dynamic, the mind operates at a sublime level. 


The native is healthy, wealthy and prosperous. He benefits from purva punya (good 
karma from his past life), and applies it via positive actions, kriyamana karma, in 
the current lifetime. He has strong spiritual beliefs, and is a devout practitioner 

of his religion. He may be initiated into the use of mantras or some other spiritual 
practice by a guru of a high order. 


Both his father and his children are fortunate, well-educated, morally upright and 
successful. His father pursues higher studies in combination with foreign travel. His 
children gain through speculation, games of chance or creative pursuits. 


He views his romantic relationships in a spiritual context. He places less emphasis 
on the material or sexual benefits of a relationship, and more on the karmic “cor- 
rectness” of such a relationship as a vehicle for spiritual growth. He encounters 
romantic partners on distant journeys, on spiritual quests, or in academic surround- 
ings. 

His mind is naturally drawn to higher studies, and he is inclined to pursue an intel- 
lectual profession in communication or education. He is interested in writing and 
philosophy, and may author books on spiritual subjects or related travels. 


Famous people with this exchange 


Jim Clark, race car driver; Quentin Crisp, humorist; Simone de Beauvoir, writer; Em- 
peror Hirohito, Japanese royalty; Jeff Jawer, astrologer; Tad Mann, astrologer; Lyle 
Menendez, patricide/matricide; Richard Speck, mass murderer; James Woods, actor; 
Gian-Franco Zeffirelli, director. 


Case study 


Simone de Beauvoir was a French writer and existentialist teacher who enjoyed a 
literary career as a novelist, philosopher, essayist and memoirist. A political activist 
rather than a feminist, she had an unconventional morality that rejected marriage 
in favor of women’s autonomy. 


She was deeply religious as a child, at one point intending to become a nun, but had 
a crisis of faith at age 14, after which she became an atheist. She was academically 

accomplished, gaining degrees in both math and philosophy before teaching at the 
Sorbonne. 


A major participant in the Existentialist movement, along with Jean Paul Sartre, her 


life companion in an open relationship, she wrote books that examined the position 
of women in a male-dominated world. She traveled extensively and wrote popular 
travel diaries about time spent in the United States and China. 


She had a number of female lovers, some of whom she shared with Sartre. The 
nature of these relationships, some of which began while she was a professor, later 
led to her suspension from teaching at the Sorbonne. 


Ie 60 
AP. 
o / 8 


j f og 
a0) 0 
i | 
os | 
\ : 09 035’ | 
my Asc 7 [™ 
BH lie oc ae _ 07 


The Moon in 5th house Pisces is in mutual reception with Jupiter in 9th house 
Cancer. They are natural benefics and sattvik planets, but fall just short of the orb 
required for a trine. The Moon conjoins ascendant lord Mars, emphasizing her ac- 
tivism and creativity. Jupiter is both exalted and bright, the most elevated planet 
overhead, from which point it opposes Venus. 


Post-exchange, if the Moon carries its degree into the 9th house, it forms a trine 
with Mars. If Jupiter takes its degree to the 5th, it squares the Sun and Mercury, and 
forms a sextile with Venus. 


The Sth house themes are revealed through her prodigious intellect, eg, degrees in 
both math and philosophy, and in her authorship of several books, both fiction and 
non-fiction, which garnered literary awards and popular acclaim. 


The 9th house themes were revealed through academia (she taught at the Sorbonne 
for 12 years), her publishing career and her substantial profile as an existential the- 
orist for women’s liberation and the feminist movement. 


This is a night birth in which Jupiter gains a slight boost in status by way of minor 
reception with its exchange partner. The Moon is in a decan of Jupiter. 


This merely corroborates the already dominant position of exalted Jupiter and 
therefore its role as control planet in this mutual reception. Its position in the 9th 
house is a classic signature for an academic and philosopher. 


Exchange of 5th and 10th lords 
Parashara says: 


* Should the 5th lord occupy the 10th house, the native will be blessed with Raj 
yoga (governmental favor), and various pleasures and be very illustrious. (BPHS 
26:58) 


* In the event of the 10th lord being placed in the 5th house, the native will be 
endowed with all kinds of learning, be always cheerful, wealthy and be blessed 
with sons. (BPHS 26:113) 


This is a mutual reception wherein the lords are in a 6/8 relationship. Because of 
this pattern, we get a sense of the mind really being “put to work” in the name of 
professional pursuits. 


The native enjoys a high degree of luck in his career and is fortunate in achieving his 
aspirations for success, reputation and social status. He has an intellectual profes- 
sion, and succeeds in government, law, general management, public administration 
and the investment industry. 


His children are successful in their careers, but are prone to getting into situations 
of debt and/or litigation. They are also a source of worry on account of their health. 


His intellectual skills are somehow put on public display, eg, through an artistic 
profession such as author, actor or other public performer. His writing skills are 
often applied to corporate purposes: public relations, speechwriting, annual re- 
ports, business plans, and legal contracts. 


He may exercise a flair for dramatics or showmanship in some aspect of a public 
career. This could favor professions as diverse as politician, news anchor, motiva- 
tional speaker or sports commentator. 


Famous people with this exchange 


Kareem Abdul-Jabbar, basketball player; Charles E.O. Carter, astrologer; Hillary 
Clinton, politician; André Courreges, designer; Jeff Green, astrologer; Sybil Leek, 
astrologer; Robert Mapplethorpe, photographer; Marcel Marceau, mime; Josef 
Mengele, Nazi doctor; Vaslav Nijinski, ballet dancer; Philip Roth, writer; Zucchero, 
singer. 


Case study 


Hillary Clinton is an American attorney, politician and prominent member of the 
Democrat party. From the time she was president of her high school class, she 
brought home academic honors. Socially conscious, she was always a shrewd and 
capable organizer, a graduate of Yale Law School. 


Over the years she’s been First Lady to President Bill Clinton, the first female Sena- 
tor elected to represent the State of New York, and the US Secretary of State under 
the Obama administration. As Secretary of State, she visited more countries than 
any other predecessor. 


The National Law Journal has twice listed her as one of the 100 most influential 
lawyers in America. She’s the only First Lady to have been subpoenaed (for the 


Whitewater investigation), and the only First Lady to have ever run for office. Over 
the course of Bill Clinton's role as Governor of Arkansas and President of the USA, 
she has endured both the Gennifer Flowers and Monica Lewinsky scandals, main- 
taining a stoic public persona despite privately engaging in loud fights with her er- 
rant husband. 


She has authored five books and become a shining example, both of grace under 
pressure and what a woman can accomplish in public service. In April 2015, she an- 
nounced her candidacy for the 2016 Presidential elections. 


TP cy? 
| | | 
- | 
| Y 7 ie 
lee 2° . 16 
2 BRE ag 00 a Ht 
\ As 01 "9 43 
Ba ae 
07 se 
4 vA 
my. & VAN 


s V3 


The Moon in Sth house Aquarius is in mutual reception with Saturn in 10th house 
Cancer. The two share no mutual aspect. The Moon is ordinary, trine Mercury and 
Venus. Saturn is in detriment, squaring Mercury and Venus, and in wide conjunction 
with debilitated Mars. 


Post-exchange, since the two planets are close in degree, these aspect patterns 

are simply swapped. Thus, before or after virtual transposition, both Mercury and 
Venus receive aspects from the exchange pair. As lord of the 1st and 8th houses, 
Venus contributes charisma but also reversals. As lord of the 9th and 12th, Mercury 
may entail loss of both name and position. 


The 5th house themes arising from the mutual reception are reflected in her pop- 
ulist appeal, her authorship, and her devotion to her daughter Chelsea. The Sth 
also represents ministerial roles, which she has fulfilled in one capacity or another 
throughout her career. 


The 10th house themes play out in her various government positions, her political 
profile and her advocacy of Democrat principles at home and abroad. The presence 
of that debilitated Mars, troubling whichever of the exchange planets share the 
10th with it, might in part explain the scandals that have dogged her public life. 


Government involvement itself is a combined influence of Sth (ministerial), 9th 


(legislative) and 10th (public) house roles, and this exchange invokes two of them. 


This is a day birth in which neither planet gains advantage through minor dignities 
or reception. The Moon is in its own face, Saturn in its own term. The Moon is ina 
triplicity of Saturn, while Saturn is in a face of the Moon. 


Thus, there is no control planet in this mutual reception, since neither of the two 
has any essential dignity that places one above the other. This leaves us with co- 
equal houses — the Sth for governmental ministry, the 10th for her social status. 


Exchange of 5th and 11th lords 
Parashara says: 


* In case the Sth lord occupies the 11th house, the native will be learned, be dear 
to the people, be an illustrious author, be very skillful, and be endowed with 
many sons and wealth. (BPHS 26:59) 


* {f the 11th lord is placed in the 5th house, the native’s children will be happy, 
educated and virtuous. He himself will be religious and happy. (BPHS 26:125) 


This is a mutual reception wherein the lords are in a 7/7 relationship across succe- 
dent houses. The configuration between these two positive house lords in mutual 
sign-to-sign aspect further strengthens the significations of their respective houses. 


The native is an eternal optimist, indulging in anticipation of dreams to be fulfilled. 
He is preoccupied with earning money. He pursues an education in a related field, 
such as commerce or finance, and uses his knowledge for further profit. 


His children earn wealth in the entertainment or sports fields, although their life 
Spans may be shorter than average. They are fond of travel. 


His friends or elder siblings are intellectual, creative and spiritual. They help the 
native by offering advice on investments, or making introductions within their net- 
work. The elder sibling is likely to have a short life span. 


The native gains from lotteries, gambling, horse races, and stock market specula- 
tion. He may work as an investment advisor, stockbroker, bookie, or casino oper- 
ator. His considerable writing skills may be applied to the fields of commerce and 
entertainment, organizational and community activities, or politics. 


Famous people with this exchange 


Enrico Caruso, opera singer; Marc Garneau, astronaut; Victor Hugo, writer; Edna 
O’Brien, writer; Maritha Pottenger, astrologer; Rudolph Steiner, philosopher; Cat 
Stevens, musician; Douglas Wilder, politician; Vladimir Zhirinovsky, politician. 


Case study 


Victor Hugo was a French writer, poet, dramatist, novelist, essayist, painter, archi- 
tect and critic — an eclectic genius who was also a politically active humanitarian. 
His most famous works include The Hunchback of Notre Dame and Les Miserables. 


He wrote his first play at age 14. After a period of extreme poverty, he was awarded 
an annual pension by Louis XVIII. He went on to become the most prolific French 
writer of the 19th century, writing 100 lines of verse or 20 pages of prose each day, 
many of his works criticizing social and political injustices of the day. 


Hugo was elected to the French Academy and became a member of the National 
Assembly. In his 81st year, the street of his residence was renamed Avenue Victor 
Hugo. 


He was married but also had mistresses throughout his life. Out of his four children, 
one daughter went insane and another drowned. A lusty man, he recorded his many 
sexual encounters up until seven weeks before his death. 


He was one of the most famous men in the world at that time and was a millionaire 
when he died. The day of his funeral, crowds were so vast that 10,000 police were 
needed to hold them back. Drunken bodies littered the Champs-Elysées. Even the 
brothels were closed. 


11 OF , ae 
QO) ASC SY 00 2 } 
4s 16 
36 56 11 ©) 
03 ‘ 
ny ): 09 ' ? AVA 


The Sun in Sth house Aquarius is in mutual reception with Saturn in 11th house 
Leo. Both are in detriment. These two malefics are in opposition but the association 
of benefics softens the dynamic. The Sun is conjunct Venus and widely opposed 
Jupiter. Saturn is bright, conjunct Jupiter and opposed Venus. 


Post-exchange, since they're relatively close in degree, their aspect patterns are 
simply swapped. Thus, both Jupiter and Venus are energized by aspects from the 
exchange pair, before or after transposition. Since Jupiter is lord of the 3rd in the 
11th, this gives income from writing. Meanwhile, ascendant lord Venus in the Sth 
gives creativity and authorship. 


The 5th house themes are exemplified by his enormous creative output, his 
amorous nature throughout life and the tragic deaths of two daughters, one of 
which permanently scarred him. 


The 11th house themes played out via his active involvement in social causes of the 
day, including his leadership of a literary rebellion called the Romantic Movement, 
his participation in the National Assembly, and his later appointment as a senator. 


This is a night birth in which there are no minor dignities or receptions between the 
two planets. Thus, there is no apparent control planet for this mutual reception. If 
we return to basic principles, however, note that Saturn is bright. Thus, its occupa- 
tion of the 11th house invokes the essential humanitarianism for which Hugo was 
much loved. 


Exchange of 5th and 12th lords 
Parashara says: 


* In the event of the 5th lord having fallen in the 12th house, the native is bereft 
of the happiness of having his own sons. He will have an adopted or purchased 
son. (BPHS 26:60) 


* Should the 12th lord occupy the 5th house, the native will be bereft of sons and 
learning. He will spend money and also make pilgrimages to beget a son. (BPHS 
26:137) 


This is a mutual reception wherein the lords are in a 6/8 relationship. Because of 
this dynamic, ie, with the creative mind exchanging notions of surrender and loss, 
the native is inclined to illusion and flights of fantasy. 


The native is naturally introspective, but with a tendency to daydream, so he may 
have difficulty functioning in the real world. He lacks peace of mind, and has a trou- 
bled dream life. His logic is faulty. He is deceptive, or experiences confusion in deal- 
ing with others. 


He dreams of liberation, or moksha, but lacks the mental discipline to pursue a 
spiritual path. Mantra, meditation and other spiritual practices don't come easily to 
him. 

He thinks a lot about sex but is sexually ambivalent. Therefore, he experiences 
unconscious desires for partners who are unsuited by virtue of disposition, gender, 
availability, etc. He may fear real intimacy, and end up forming relationships with 
people at a distance so as to avoid regular close contact. Attraction to foreigners is a 
typical occurrence. 


There are barriers to progeny. The person may be afraid to have children, but even 
when the desire is there, he experiences delays, miscarriages or outright denial. As 
an alternative, the person may adopt. There are worries on account of children, and 
poor rapport between them. Even if the relationship is sound, such a person’s chil- 
dren find it difficult to become settled in life. 


He has problems with his investments and is more likely to generate losses than 
profits. As a consequence, he worries a lot. He has no particular aptitude for sports, 
and has a fear of public performance. 


Famous people with this exchange 


Lynn Anderson, singer; Stephen Arroyo, astrologer; Fred Astaire, dancer; Pieter 
Botha, politician; L. Ron Hubbard, Scientologist; Annie Lennox, singer; Dick Mar- 
tin, comedian; Alfred de Musset, playwright; Pablo Picasso, artist; Susan St. James, 
actress. 


Case study 


Pablo Picasso was a Spanish artist who lived most of his life in France. He’s consid- 
ered to be the most original and influential visual artist of the early 20th century. 
His Herculean output, estimated at 50,000 individual works of art, made him a bil- 
lionaire at his death. 


The eldest of three children, Pablo is said to have been born dead, "awakened" 
when a visitor blew cigar smoke in his face and made him cry. As a child, he was sur- 
rounded by females, learned macho behavior early, and ultimately became a first- 
class manipulator of women. 


He was a child prodigy and once said, “I never drew like a child. When | was 12, | 
drew like Raphael.” He discovered bohemian life in his late teens, and was rumored 
to have had a homosexual relationship with a gypsy boy at age 17. 


At age 20, Picasso set up a studio in Paris and began signing his work with his 
mother's maiden name. Living in total poverty, he worked far into the night, pro- 
ducing museum-quality paintings. 

With a roving eye and a sexual appetite that bordered on gluttony, he married twice 
and engaged in multiple affairs. Beauty and relative youth were the only consistent 
qualities he desired in women. In his 60s his sexual gluttony became obsessive. 


bp. 
OAR 0 . 
9 01 ld 
1g 20' 
1 36 r 
; Cx 08" | 
| 
Pate ae | 
© is 36° #/ 
00' 18 


Mercury in Sth house Scorpio is in mutual reception with Mars in 12th house Gem- 
ini. The two share no mutual aspect. Mercury is ordinary, associated with the dark 
and debilitated ascendant lord Moon, and in tight opposition to a bright Jupiter. 
Mars is ordinary but aspects the three other debilitated planets in Picasso's chart - a 
very wide trine with the Sun, a wide square with Venus, and sextile Saturn. 


Post-exchange, if Mercury carries its degree into the 12th house, it forms a wide 
trine with the Sun. If Mars takes its degree to the Sth, it conjoins the Moon and the 
north node Rahu. 


An extraordinary feature of Picasso's chart is that he had four debilitated planets, 
all of which interacted in some fashion with one or the other of the exchange pair. 


The Sth house themes were reflected in his staggering artistic output, his cavalier 
attitude towards both lovers and children, and his stomach ulcers. 


The 12th house themes played out primarily in sexual obsession, to such a degree 
that it pervaded his art, wherein several works feature an aged dwarf-like artist rav- 
ishing his beautiful young models. 


This is a night birth in which Mars gains status via multiple minor receptions with 
its exchange partner. Mercury and Mars occupy each other's triplicity, while Mercury 
is in the term, face and decan of Mars. 

Thus, Mars emerges as the control planet for this mutual reception. Its position in the 
12th house reflects the sexuality that pervaded both Picasso's lifestyle and his art. 


Chapter 11 
Exchanges with the 6th house lord 


Exchange of 6th and 7th lords 
Parashara says: 


* In case the 6th lord is situated in the 7th house, the native will be devoid of 
happiness through wedlock, be famous, virtuous, honorable, adventurous and 
wealthy. (BPHS 26:67) 


* If the 7th lord is placed in the 6th house, the native’s wife will be sickly or the 
native is inimical towards her, he is himself given to anger and remains devoid 
of happiness. (BPHS 26:78) 


This is a mutual reception wherein the lords are in a 2/12 relationship. Because of 
this dynamic, involving the 7th house and the troublesome 6th, the exchange often 
plays out in flawed relationships. 


The native experiences much open opposition, in the form of competitors or ene- 
mies who create trouble in his life. Professionally, this suggests a career related to 
defense, police, or security work. Alternatively, he may work as a lawyer, mediator, 
or paralegal in the justice system. 


He experiences fluctuations in the state of his health, particularly the kidneys. He 
has problems with his sexual organs, externally via injury or rash, or internally 
via deformation. His sexual performance is affected, such that he is physically ex- 
hausted through too much sex, or incapable of performing. 


His spouse is passionate and adversarial. Marriage is a constant strain, with regular 
conflict on an emotional, verbal and perhaps physical level. In due course, separa- 
tion may be the ultimate outcome. Alternatively, the spouse may be unhealthy, with 
frequent illnesses and complaints, both real and imagined. The spouse makes poor 
investments, or is taken advantage of in some way, such that their finances suffer. 


The native or his spouse may work as a vet or animal caregiver, but as likely as not, 
one of them will simply feel a very strong attachment to pets, such that the animal 
becomes almost as important as the spouse. 


Famous people with this exchange 


Les Aspin, politician; Berndt Andreas Baader, anarchist; Robert A. Bloch, writer; Pat 
Boone, singer; Jack Bruce, musician; James Caan, actor; Nick Campion, astrologer; 
Dennis Hopper, actor; Kitaro, musician; Jean Monnet, economist; Czar Nicholas II, 
Russian royalty; Tom Paxton, folksinger; Dane Rudhyar, astrologer; David Sanborn, 
musician; Terrence Stamp, actor; Natalie Wood, actress. 


Case study 


Dane Rudhyar was a French-American astrologer, one of the most notable and re- 
spected of the 20th century. He was the pioneer of modern transpersonal astrology, 
his best known work being The Astrology of Personality. 


He was called a modern Renaissance man for his ability to express himself in music, 


painting, poetry, philosophy and metaphysics. He wrote for national magazines 
since the 1930s and was the author of many books - astrology, fiction, poetry and 
metaphysics. 


Rudhyar had poor health as a child and at age 12 had a kidney removed. He ma- 
jored in philosophy and graduated from the Sorbonne at age 16. While involved in 
the artistic and musical climate of Paris, he had a mystical experience in which he 
became aware of the cyclic nature of all human existence, from which time on he 
sought to gain a deeper understanding through the study of theosophy, Eastern re- 
ligions, Jungian psychology and astrology. 


He immigrated to the USA and spent his final years in San Francisco where he 
became a central figure in the New Age movement of the 60s. His appreciation for 
intelligent women resulted in his being married five times. 


ho @ 
oe . | 
TR \ an I 
09' a 
pene OS 
23" 
a Ras 17, \, 44 19 ehhea 
\ = 
+5 09 24" 96 | 
my Asc” ae, 
45 
as 09 


Venus in 6th house Aries is in mutual reception with Mars in 7th house Taurus. They 
share no mutual aspect. Both are in detriment. Venus is opposite an exalted and 
bright Saturn, while sextile the Moon, Mercury and Jupiter. Mars is widely square 
Mercury. 


Post-exchange, if Mars carries its degree into the 6th house, it opposes Saturn and 
widely sextiles Mercury. If Venus takes its degree to the 7th, it squares the Moon 
and Mercury, and forms a sextile with the Sun. 


Before and after exchange, both planets maintain aspects (courtesy of generous 
orbs) with Mercury. Its ownership of the 8th and 11th houses reflects both Rudh- 
yar's exploration of astrology’s psychological insights, as well as his influence on 
the New Age community of the day. 


The exchange of 6th and 7th lords is virtually a kiss of death for relationships, 
spelling problems in the couple’s dynamic, or the partner’s circumstances. (Since 
the 7th indicates relationships, the 6th is the 12th from the 7th and therefore the 


undoing of a relationship.) The aspect of a powerful Saturn on Venus, which is both 
7th lord and the generic significator for relationships, makes this pattern all the 
more potent. 


This loss-of-relationship presaged by the 6th/7th exchange was evidenced in Rudh- 
yar’s five marriages. Interestingly enough, the same exchange also explains his loss 
of a kidney, since the 7th house rules the kidneys. 


This is a night birth in which Mars gains modest status through minor receptions 
with its exchange partner. Although Venus is in its own term, it simultaneously oc- 
cupies the face and decan of Mars. 

Since both planets are unremarkable and their other dignities so minor, determin- 
ing the control planet for this mutual reception is a tough call. Since Mars is also 
the ascendant lord, we might favor it. The placement of Mars, an agitator, in the 
7th house thus evokes his turbulent marital life. 


Exchange of 6th and 8th lords 
Parashara says: 


* In the event of the 6th lord falling in the 8th house, the native will be sickly, 
inimical to the learned and the wise, will desire others’ wealth, be interested in 
others’ wives, and be impure. (BPHS 26:68) 


* In case the 8th lord is gone in the 6th house, the native will win over his oppo- 
nents, will have a diseased body and in childhood he will fear danger through 
snakes and water. (BPHS 26:90) 


This is a mutual reception wherein the lords are in a 3/11 relationship from trou- 
blesome houses. Yet this is also analogous to having two bad people exchange bad 
places. Since this is the astrological equivalent of two wrongs make a right, the ex- 
change may play out as a series of manageable crises. 


The native has many competitors and enemies whom he defeats, such that they're 
more of a nuisance and a torment to him than a real menace. He is sexually aggres- 
sive, and attempts to form relations with women through promiscuous activity, 
adultery or rape. 


Sickness is a major theme in life, and he goes through a number of health crises and 
recoveries. Viral infections, toxins or poisons cause problems in the bowels or the 
internal sexual organs. These may be difficult to diagnose, due to the hidden nature 
of their symptoms. 


Maternal uncles and in-laws succeed through their own efforts, albeit with many 
setbacks, and make many short journeys. 


Working life is fitful, with many breaks in employment, and there are difficulties 

with staff and co-workers, and bad working conditions. Typical occupations entail 
stealth in the face of opposition, eg, police or insurance investigation, medical or 

military research. 


Other careers involve service in the face of traumatic events, eg, disaster relief 
teams, rape counselors, crime scene units, ambulance crews or critical care units, 
operating room staff, and hazardous materials handlers. 


Famous people with this exchange 


Prince Albert, British royalty; Paul Bowles, writer; Max Bruch, composer; Wilhelm 
Canaris, militarist; Robert Doisneau, photographer; Brendan Fraser, actor; W.D. 
Gann, astrologer/economist; Waylon Jennings, singer; Nathan Leopold, murderer; 
Jerry Lewis, comedian; Grandma Moses, artist; Martina Navratilova, tennis player; 
Emmy Noether, mathematician; Richard Petty, race car driver; Roman Prodi, educa- 
tor; Gian-Franco Zeffirelli, director. 


Case study 


Martina Navratilova is a Czech-American tennis champion whom Billie Jean King 
once called “the greatest singles, doubles and mixed doubles player who's ever 
lived.” 


Born into a tennis-oriented family, she played her first tournament at age eight, the 


same year her father committed suicide. Off the court, she swam, skied, and played 
soccer and ice hockey, but nothing interfered with tennis. 


She was stripped of Czech citizenship when, in 1975 at age 18, she asked the United 
States for political asylum and was granted temporary residency. Aside from speak- 
ing out on several volatile political issues, including litigation reform and gay/les- 
bian rights, she’s been a vocal critic of Communism her whole life. 


In her mid-20s she suffered from toxoplasmosis, an infection threatening the 
central nervous system. In her mid-40s she was treated for breast cancer, having a 
tumor surgically removed. 


Public about being lesbian, she’s been linked to several other prominent female 
athletes, one of whom engaged her in a bitter court battle over a palimony suit. 


Navratilova is involved with various charities that benefit animal rights, underpriv- 
iteged children and gay rights. She’s written several books - a tennis instruction 
book, an autobiography, a fitness instruction book — and co-authored three mystery 
novels. 


NS 07 49 2 
ae AO 
23 01 
58 

Wy Tp 

WwW | 
| | | 
| F190? 2s Al | 
\ v4 ny 20 10" 


Asc 1 QO) i 


om I 


Venus in 6th house Leo is in mutual reception with the Sun in 8th house Libra. The 
two share no mutual aspect. Venus is ordinary, widely conjunct the ascendant lord 
Jupiter, and tightly opposed to Mars. The Sun is debilitated in Libra and unaspected 
by any other planet. 


Post-exchange, if Venus carries its degree into the 8th house, it forms a trine with 
Mars and a sextile with Jupiter. If the Sun takes its degree to the 6th, it squares 
Saturn. 


Since the exchange of 6th and 8th lords forms a “reversal-of-misfortune” configura- 
tion, it holds out the prospect in which illness, trauma and litigation are potentially 
treated, resolved or defeated. We can see this in her life via successful recoveries 

from major health crises in her 20s and 40s, and in her dismissal of a palimony suit 


brought against her by a former companion. 


Interestingly, Navratilova is one of the few (3% of the population) who has a second 
mutual reception. In her case, it involves the exchange of traditional enemies, 9th 
lord Mars and 12th lord Saturn. The most obvious problems from this quarter were 
loss of father through suicide, and legal problems regarding immigration. 


This is a day birth in which neither planet gains advantage via minor receptions. 
Venus is in the Sun's triplicity, while the Sun is ina decan of Venus. Via this method, 
we can't determine a control planet for this mutual reception. 

But if we review their primary dignities, noting Venus is ordinary but the Sun is 
debilitated, we can opt for Venus. Its position in the 6th house with ascendant lord 
Jupiter speaks to both her competitive drive and her recovery from health crises. 


Exchange of 6th and 9th lords 
Parashara says: 


* {f the 6th lord is situated in the 9th house, the native will trade in wood and 
stones and will confront fluctuations in trade. (BPHS 26:69) 


* {f the 9th lord is in the 6th house, the native will be less fortunate, be devoid of 
happiness from maternal uncle, etc, and be troubled by enemies. (BPHS 26:102) 


This is a mutual reception wherein the lords are in a 4/10 relationship across cadent 
houses. As a consequence of this pattern, the exchange may reveal itself as a lack of 
luck in general, often in employment. 


The native experiences setbacks in his spiritual pursuits. He questions his teachers 
or disagrees with elements of their belief system. His guru adopts an adversarial 
stand in order to test his resolve. His ethics may be questionable, such that he ar- 
gues moral points of view, and gets into legal disputes. 


The father’s health is poor. Furthermore, the father’s life entails a significant degree 
of struggle, with some blemish attached to his profession or reputation. By exten- 
sion, the native’s relationship with his father might be adversarial. 


His maternal uncles or in-laws may be involved in the purchase or sale of vehicles or 
properties. 


Competitors and enemies gain advantage over him. His employment situation fluc- 
tuates due to competition or the interference of others. Travel further exposes him 
to adversaries, and he suffers losses from foreign dealings. He has accidents or ex- 

periences ill health during journeys. 


In terms of higher education, he does not favor religious subjects, and has difficulty 
achieving an advanced degree. He or his father is employed in medicine, law, de- 
fense or some aspect of foreign trade. Within the legal field, he may be an activist 
for animal or environmental issues. 


Famous people with this exchange 


Michele Alboreto, race car driver; Hans Christian Andersen, writer; Chris Carter, TV 
producer; Joe Clark, politician; John Cleese, actor; Tom Daschle, politician; Dr. Franz 
Hartmann, occultist; “Rocket” Ismail, football player; Kenneth Lay, corporate exec- 
utive; Brenda Lee, singer; Auguste Piccard, scientist; William Pitt, British nobility; 
Edith Sitwell, writer. 


Case study 


John Cleese is an English actor, comedian and writer best known for his TV series, 
Monty Python's Flying Circus and Fawlty Towers (“I could run this hotel just fine, if it 
weren't for the guests.”) and the movie, A Fish Called Wanda. Aside from his TV and 
movie roles, Cleese has also produced business training films using humor to make 
their points. 


His family’s surname was originally Cheese, but his father thought it embarrassing 
and changed it when he enlisted. Cleese blames his mother, who lived to 101, for his 
difficult relationships with women. 


He was educated at Cambridge in mathematics, physics, and chemistry. For three 
years he was rector of the University of St. Andrew's, and has held other similar 
posts at other universities. 


Despite a career of poking fun at the establishment, he declined offers of peerage 
and to be made a Commander of the Order of the British Empire. 


He’s been married four times. He successfully sued a British tabloid for libel con- 
cerning an article about his sex drive, and donated the proceeds to a scholarship 
foundation. However, his divorce settlement to his third wife, an American psy- 
chotherapist, cost him over $20 million. 


Politically involved and environmentally concerned, Cleese once declared, “I adore 
lemurs. They're extremely gentle, well-mannered, pretty and yet great fun. | should 
have married one.” 


41101 10 

09 33 00 x 

OQ ¥ 
9 a 


06 


“Wy 
Mars in 6th house Capricorn is in mutual reception with Saturn in 9th house Aries. 
They share no mutual aspect. Mars is exalted, squaring a strong Venus, and in sex- 


tile with a bright Moon. Saturn is debilitated but bright, opposing a debilitated Sun 
and closely aligned with the nodal axis. 


All of the malefic planets in this chart occupy cadent houses. This implies some de- 
gree of (technical) prowess in the arts, in environmental issues, in academia. 


Post-exchange, if Mars carries its degree into the 9th, it forms a tight opposition to 
that strong Venus. By accentuating the 3rd/9th axis, this invokes the notions of per- 
formance art, writing and teaching. 


If Saturn takes its degree to the 6th, it forms sextiles with benefics Mercury and 
Jupiter. This plays out as activism (6th) in support of undeveloped lands (4th) and 
historical artifacts (8th). 


6th house themes have played out in problematic relationships, litigation and envi- 


ronmental causes. 9th house themes are evidenced in academic fields, legal matters 
and politics. 


The cross-pollination of those two houses in exchange can also be seen in his in- 
dustrial/corporate training programs, as well as his having declined social honors 
offered by the establishment. 


This is a night birth in which Mars has gained all the advantages of minor dignities 
and receptions with its exchange partner. Mars is in its own term, while Saturn occu- 
pies the face and decan of Mars. 

This confirms Mars as the control planet for this mutual reception, as already sus- 
pected in light of their primary dignities - Mars is exalted, Saturn debilitated. Mars 
in the 6th is the agent provocateur, the activist. 


Exchange of 6th and 10th lords 
Parashara says: 


* Should the 6th lord occupy the 10th house, the native will be illustrious in his 
family, will not be a devoted son, be a gifted speaker, and be happy in foreign 
countries. (BPHS 26:70) 


* In case the 10th lord is fallen in the 6th house, the native will be bereft of pater- 
nal bliss, be bereft of wealth and be troubled by enemies in spite of being skill- 
ful. (BPHS 26:114) 


This is a mutual reception wherein the lords are in a 5/9 relationship from artha 
(security) houses. Because of this dynamic, the exchange will play out mainly in 
mundane, material, financial and employment arenas. 


The native’s life is made difficult by enemies who operate from a position of status. 
Advances in his career are slow and filled with obstacles, due to the influence of 
competitors. His social status may be threatened. 


He has robust health, but may get sick or injured at work, either through a poisoned 
workplace or an occupational hazard. 


His business fluctuates although, by dint of hard work, he makes steady gains in 
professional status, rising ultimately to a high level of accomplishment. If he is an 
employer or manager, his staff is very competent. 


The person gets paid very well for work that is confrontational and/or traumatic. 
Occupations most favored are medicine and law, defense and police work. Ona 
lower scale, many service occupations also offer relatively attractive pay rates be- 
cause of the unsavory nature of the work, eg, butchers, garbage workers, environ- 
mental cleanup, etc. 


Famous people with this exchange 


Brendan Behan, playwright; Carlo Benetton, industrialist; Frank Capra, filmmaker; 
Edith Custer, astrologer; Linda Evans, actress; Lorne Greene, actor; Gary Middlecoff, 
pro golfer; Arantxa Sanchez-Vicario, tennis pro; Robert Sherwood, playwright; 
Karen Silkwood, activist; Heinrich Steinway, piano maker. 


Case study 


Karen Silkwood was an American chemical technician and labor union activist who 
raised concerns about corporate practices related to the health and safety of nu- 
clear plant workers. She’s most famous for her mysterious death, the subject of a 
victorious lawsuit against the chemical company. She gained more fame when she 
was portrayed by Meryl Streep in the Academy Award-nominated film Silkwood. 


Previously married with three children, Silkwood discovered her husband having 
an affair with her best friend, and left the family. She began working at a nuclear 
plant, became active in the workers’ union and was elected to their bargaining com- 
mittee, the first woman to achieve that position at the plant. 


Concerned about unsafe working conditions at the plant, Silkwood gathered 
evidence and spearheaded a union effort to publicize the situation and make man- 


agement accountable. Exposed to radioactivity on-site, she was killed in a fatal car 
crash less than two weeks later under circumstances that strongly suggested foul 
play. 

Her family later successfully sued her employer for negligence causing her death 
and, after judgment, appeal and review, received an out-of-court settlement of $1.4 
million. 


03 \R 


me 
Mercury in 6th house Aquarius is in mutual reception with Saturn in 10th house 
Gemini. The two share no mutual aspect. Ascendant lord Mercury is ordinary, con- 


junct Venus and trine Mars. Saturn is bright, conjunct a bright Mars, and widely as- 
sociated with north node Rahu, another malefic. 


Post-exchange, if Mercury carries its degree into the 10th house, it conjoins Mars. If 
Saturn takes its degree to the 6th, it forms a trine with Mars. 


Before and after exchange, both planets retain a relationship with Mars. As the lord 
of two troublesome houses — misadventures of the 3rd, and traumas of the 8th - 
Mars as a bright malefic in the 10th accompanied by two other malefics is eminently 
positioned to inflict harm. Take note of the square it makes to both the ascendant 
and Moon - two prime significators for Silkwood. And with Saturn casting the same 
squares, it’s double jeopardy. 


The 6th house themes are strongly in evidence: dissolution of marriage, labor 
relations, concerns about the work environment, organized opposition, and legal 
action. 


10th house themes are seen through corporate business, publicity and relative fame 
for actions (karma) taken. 


This is a night birth in which Saturn has gained modest strength through minor 
dignities and receptions with its exchange partner. Saturn is in its own triplicity 
and decan. Meanwhile, Mercury is in its own face and decan, but in the triplicity of 


Saturn. 


This confirms Saturn as the control planet of this mutual reception, which was 
somewhat evident already from its brightness and elevation. Thus, Saturn will bor- 
row some muscle from Mars, some smoke-and-mirrors from Rahu, and do its dirty 
work. Not all control planets are good for the owner of the chart. This is karma - the 
10th house. 


Exchange of 6th and 11th lords 
Parashara says: 


* Should the 6th lord occupy the 11th house, the native will gain from his enemies, 
be virtuous, adventurous, honorable, but be bereft of progenic happiness. (BPHS 
26:71) 


* In case the 11th lord is posited in the 6th house, the native will generally remain 
sickly. He will be cruel, living in foreign places and be troubled by enemies. 
(BPHS 26:126) 


This is a mutual reception wherein the lords are in a 6/8 relationship between 
houses that represent competition and success. Because of this dynamic, themes of 
struggle and overcoming odds are dominant. 


The native is not fortunate with job opportunities, and doesn’t earn a high salary. 
His hopes and ambitions are hampered by competition, such that he eventually 
lowers his sights to diminished expectations. He makes gains through service occu- 
pations related to the medical, legal, or defense industries. 


Although income isn't very good at the outset, it improves steadily with time. Simi- 
larly, although competitors are a torment, they too gradually diminish, such that he 
ultimately triumphs over them. 


His health suffers from an early age, but gradually improves over time. Resistance 
to infections, especially in the bowel, is weak at first but eventually gets stronger. 


His relationship with friends and elder siblings is strained. He faces competition 
from his sibling(s), and reversals of fortune among friends. Friends or elder siblings 
may have short or difficult lives. 


Financial transactions among his friends turn out badly. Loans made to friends may 
go unpaid. Rough company may encourage him to seek illegal profits, especially if 
the planets involved in the exchange are malefics. 


Famous people with this exchange 


Gabriele d'Annunzio, writer; Indira Gandhi, politician; Karl Jaspers, philosopher; 
Quincy Jones, musician; Henri Pétain, statesman; Michelle Pfeiffer, actress; Ruth 
Pointer, singer; Walter Winchell, journalist; Peter Wolf, musician. 


Case study 


Indira Gandhi was India’s only female Prime Minister (1966-1977) to date. Daughter 
of India's first Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru, she received an excellent educa- 
tion, studying history at Oxford and speaking perfect French. 


During university, she was plagued with ill-health and constantly attended by 
doctors. Against her father’s wishes she married a man who turned out to be an al- 
coholic and a womanizer. 


As Prime Minister, Gandhi was politically ruthless in centralizing her power. 
Although charged with electoral malpractice, jailed and banned from office, she 
staged a comeback. During India’s state of emergency, she allowed her son Sanjay 
to create what was effectively a police state. 


She was an advocate of equal pay for equal work. She presided over the nationaliza- 
tion of India’s banking, coal, steel, copper, refining, textile and insurance industries, 
largely to protect employment and the interests of organized labor. She also or- 
chestrated mass redistribution of land to assist the lower classes. 


Gandhi unleashed a powerful military offensive in the 1970s, waging wars against 
Pakistan and East Pakistan, resulting in the partition of Bangladesh. She formed an 
alliance with Russia to the chagrin of America. 


She was assassinated by two Sikh bodyguards whose loyalties changed after she 
used the army to dislodge militants from a Sikh holy site. 


Venus in 6th house Sagittarius is in mutual reception with Jupiter in 11th house 
Taurus. The two share no mutual aspect. Venus is ordinary, associated with north 
node Rahu, and in trine with Mars. Jupiter is bright, forms a sextile with Saturn, and 
sits at one end of a T-Square involving Mars and Mercury. 


Post-exchange, if Venus carries its degree into the 11th house, it forms a sextile with 
Saturn and a square with Mars. If Jupiter takes its degree to the 6th, it conjoins Rahu 
and forms a trine with Mars. 


Note how these two exchange planets, no matter where they go, interact closely 
with Mars, which is itself in mutual reception with the Sun. Those two fiery planets, 
associated with the kshatriya caste of India, have a command-and-control disposi- 
tion that is exemplified in the charts of rulers, administrators, military and police 
types. 


Meanwhile, the 6th house themes here are evident in Gandhi’s strong-arm tactics, 
exercise of police and military might, and concern for organized labor and the rural 
masses. 


11th house issues played out via her political astuteness and social reforms, while 
the blending of 6th and 11th house themes were revealed in her fluctuating politi- 


cal fortunes, with friends and allies one day becoming opponents the next, and vice 
versa. This reversal of fortunes was epitomized by her death at the hands of her own 
Sikh bodyguards. 


A key factor in Gandhi’s 6th/11th exchange is the presence of the nodal axis run- 
ning through her 6th and 12th houses. This invoked karmic past-life influences with 
respect to treachery and betrayals through friends and secret enemies. Without the 
nodal affliction, that “treachery” theme would not have emerged so dramatically. 


Gandhi's chart is truly extraordinary in that it also contains two other mutual 
recep-tions — Moon/Saturn in a 1st/7th house exchange, and Sun/Mars in a 2nd/5th 
house exchange. (40% of the population has one mutual reception, only 3% has two 
such exchanges, and a mere 0.03% has three.) 

This is a night chart in which Jupiter gains modest status via minor dignities and 
receptions with Venus. Jupiter is in its own term, while Venus is in a triplicity of 
Jupiter. 

This confirms Jupiter’s status as control planet for this mutual reception, since it 
was already bright and the most elevated planet of the chart. Its position in the 11th 
house epitomizes her social ideals and political role. 


Exchange of 6th and 12th lords 
Parashara says: 


* In case the 6th lord is placed in the 12th house, the money is spent on vices, and 
the native is inimical to the learned and does violence to animals. (BPHS 26:72) 


* If the 12th lord is fallen in the 6th house, the native will incur enmity with his 
own men, be given to anger, be sinful, miserable, and will traverse others’ wives. 
(BPHS 26:138) 


This is a mutual reception wherein the lords are in a 7/7 relationship from very 
troublesome houses. This bonding via mutual aspect also serves to strengthen (and 
aggravate) the significations of the exchange. 


The native suffers from adversaries, both open and secret, but eventually escapes 
their persecution, or the enemies themselves are neutralized through incarcera- 
tion or isolation. Spiritual liberation, or moksha, is a struggle, either because he's 
unaware of a spiritual dimension in his life, or because he doesn't make efforts to 
overcome his own inner problems. 


He may have something of a sexual obsession, being frequently in search of fresh 
partners, including those in other relationships. Consequently, his sexuality may be 
a cause of stress, with subsequent ramifications through perversion, deceit, rape, 
and/or infection. 


Maternal uncles or in-laws may have a short or difficult life. He may have disputes 
with in-laws, servants and tenants. 


His health is affected to the degree that hospitalization may be required, but since 
the 6th is a competitive house, recuperation comes eventually. He should get inoc- 
ulated before traveling to the third world, since foreign viruses are a danger to his 
health. 


He finds foreign employment in a service occupation. Alternatively, he has employ- 
ees or co-workers of a foreign nationality. Employees may prove to betray or under- 
mine him. 


He borrows heavily to spend, and finds himself constantly juggling his finances in 
order to make ends meet. If he could control his spending on unwholesome vices, he 
might otherwise enjoy uninterrupted lifetime prosperity. 


Famous people with this exchange 


John Wayne Bobbitt, castration victim; Roger Elliot, astrologer; Georges Guynemer, 
military pilot; Joanna Lumley, actress; Dean Martin, entertainer; Odetta, singer; 
Tony Randall, actor; Jean-Paul Sartre, existentialist; Bruce Scofield, astrologer; 
Cybil Shepherd, actress; Taylor Swift, musician. 


Case study 


Taylor Swift is an American singer-songwriter whose debut album established her 
as a star. As of 2015, she’s won seven Grammy Awards and many other industry 
awards. 


Known for narrative songs about personal experiences, she’s been described as “a 


songwriting savant.” But she also has her critics, with one saying, she’s also a “high- 
strung, hyper-romantic gal with a melodramatic streak.” 


Her love life, involving Joe Jonas, Taylor Lautner, John Mayer, Jake Gyllenhaal, 
Harry Styles and other celebs, has attracted inordinate media attention. The New 
York Times questioned whether she was in the midst of a “quarter-life crisis,” while 
a Baptist church labeled her “the whorish face of doomed America.” 


Whatever the circumstances, Swift has tried to defuse conflict. After the 2009 MTV 
awards when Kanye West said Beyoncé should have won her award, Swift told an 
interviewer that Kanye later offered a personal apology. She refused to discuss the 
incident in subsequent interviews so as not to make a bigger deal of it. 


Less well known than her musical career and love life, Swift is an active philan- 
thropist, donating to and performing on behalf of causes related to arts education, 
children's literacy, victims of natural disasters, LGBT rights, sick children and com- 
munity affairs. 


os 


a 0 
Mercury in 6th house Sagittarius is in mutual reception with Jupiter in 12th house 
Gemini. Both are in detriment. Mercury is conjoined Saturn, and in close opposition 
to both Jupiter and the ascendant lord Moon. Jupiter is bright, conjunct the Moon, 
and opposed Saturn. 


Post-exchange, because their degree positions are so close, swapping positions will 
simply duplicate the other's planetary aspects. Since both maintain a relationship 
with the Moon and Saturn, 1st and 7th lords, respectively, her intimate relation- 
ships may form the basis for perennial suffering. 


Note that the ascendant lord Moon is in the 12th house, joining an oppositional axis 
of planets that includes all three of the most virulent lords of the chart: 6th lord 
Jupiter, 8th lord Saturn and 12th lord Mercury. 


As discussed in earlier examples, a “negation-of-negatives” can arise when “rogue” 


planets combine in bad places. It's the social justice equivalent of putting bad guys 
in the same prison cell where they can harm none other but themselves. Bad for 
them, good for society, at least in theory. 


But the theory also demands the isolation of criminals from innocent people. Here, 
the Moon becomes the victim of collateral damage and, since that's Swift’s ascen- 
dant lord, it presages potential problems. 


6th house themes have thus far been revealed only through an irregular love life 
(the 6th is the undoing of the 7th). In all fairness, Swift is only in her twenties, al- 
though this might well be an ongoing state of affairs. 


12th house themes are evidenced through her extensive philanthropy and, to a 
lesser degree, her sex life that’s become overly publicized in the media. Both more 
elevated (spiritual) or depressed (emotional) states may emerge over time. Life is 
long. 

This is a night birth in which Mercury has gained modest status through minor 
dignities and receptions with Jupiter. Mercury is in its own term, while Mercury and 
Jupiter are each in the triplicity of the other. However, this is not enough to make 
Mercury the control planet for this mutual reception. 

Although both contenders are affiliated with the ascendant lord Moon, recall that 
Jupiter is bright, thus tipping control in its favor. Jupiter's placement in the 12th 
evokes her philanthropy. 


Chapter 12 
Exchanges with the 7th house lord 


Exchange of 7th and 8th lords 
Parashara says: 


* In case the 7th lord happens to fall in the 8th house, the native will be bereft of 
marital happiness. His wife also will be afflicted by diseases, bad-natured, and 
will not remain obedient to the native. (BPHS 26:80) 


* If the 8th lord is placed in the 7th house, the native will have two wives, and if 
he is in conjunction with a malefic planet also, there will certainly be loss in his 
trade. (BPHS 26:91) 


This is a mutual reception wherein the lords are in a 2/12 relationship. Because of 
this dynamic, the exchange typically plays out in troublesome, irregular or trau- 
matic dealings with significant others. 


The native has difficult relationships that are spoiled by inconsistent behavior, 
dishonesty or greed. He has an unhappy marital life, and separation or divorce is a 
common outcome. The spouse is ill-tempered or psychologically flawed, either as a 
result of family traumas or other misfortunes in life. 


The spouse is very interested in sex, occult practices or other mystical traditions, but 
has difficulty integrating these elements into her life. For instance, she may have 
problems with her reproductive system, or her sexual expression. 


The spouse is sickly, undergoes surgeries, is afflicted by accidents, and has chronic 
physical complaints. In the extreme, these could be debilitating or life-threatening. 


The native and his partner have problems with other people’s money, and get into 
trouble through loans and debts. The partner could contribute to money problems 
through gambling or some other form of financial mis-management. Alternatively, 
the partner may be professionally involved in the fields of banking, insurance, re- 
search or trauma management. 


Famous people with this exchange 


Lynn Anderson, singer; John Barth, writer; David Berkowitz, serial killer; Daniel 
Berrigan, activist; Barbara Bush, American First Lady; Jeb Bush, politician; Quentin 
Crisp, humorist; Willem Dafoe, actor; Phil Everly, musician; Fabio, model; Alberto 
Fujimori, politician; Sugar Ray Leonard, boxer; Billy Martin, baseball manager; 
Joseph McCarthy, politician; Audie Murphy, actor; Joe Namath, football player; 
Jerry Rubin, activist; Bertrand Russell, philosopher; Rusty Schweickart, astronaut; 
Sam Shepard, playwright; Peter Sutcliffe, “Yorkshire Ripper”; Zucchero, singer. 


Case study 


Bertrand Russell was a British-Welsh writer, mathematician, logician, philosopher 
and social activist, considered one of the 20th century's most important liberal 
thinkers. 


Born into the British aristocracy, he became acquainted with death at an early age, 


with both parents and a sister dying by the time he was four. His adolescence was 
very lonely, and it was only his interest in mathematics that kept him from suicide. 


He produced over 3,000 publications, authored more than 40 books, and won a 
Nobel Prize for Literature. But he was outspoken and controversial for his day. Anti- 
war protests landed him in prison during WW1, and 50 years later he was again 
briefly jailed for anti-nuclear protests. 


Russell was an active supporter of homosexual law reform, calling for a change in 
the law regarding male homosexual practices. On another occasion, he was dis- 
missed from a university post for his avant-garde views on sexual morality. 


He once survived a plane crash, saying he owed his life to smoking since the people 
who died were in the non-smoking part of the plane. 


He was married four times. During a separation period in his first marriage, he had 
passionate (and often simultaneous) affairs with a number of women. 


es ie 
O) ASC vi 
a 
=I 35 ] 
ie 28 | AWAY 
a WK 
be | > 
“NS 


Venus in 7th house Aries is in mutual reception with Mars in 8th house Taurus. The 
two share no mutual aspect. Both are in detriment. Venus is somewhat isolated, 
since it shares no aspects (within traditional orbs) with other planets. Mars is totally 
combust, sextile Jupiter and trine the Moon. 


Although some western authors consider cazimi (conjunction with the Sun within 
17 minutes of arc) to be empowering, most regard it as super-combustion and 
therefore destructive. Hindu astrologers call it kusht, “totally fried.” 


But as mentioned earlier, Jyotish also says that the combustion of a planet will harm 
only the living things ruled by it in that chart, not its other qualities and attributes. 
In Russell's case, a totally combust 7th lord will harm significant others in his life, 
but not his courage (a generic quality of Mars), nor his education, oratorical skills or 
wealth, all attributes of his 2nd house ruled by Mars. 


Post-exchange, if Venus carries its degree into the 8th house, it escapes combustion 
but conjoins north node Rahu. If Mars takes its degree into the 7th, it forms as- 
pects with two intellectual planets — a conjunction with Mercury and a square with 
Jupiter. 


The 7th house themes of marriage, sex, war and activism were all dominant in Rus- 
sell's life. In many ways, he was the epitome of the social reformer, a dogged cham- 
pion of causes both personal and political. 


8th house themes arose through early acquaintance with death, thoughts of sui- 
cide, life-threatening accidents, scientific investigation and philosophical inquiry. 
Largely due to his stubborn adherence to ideals than ran counter to conventional 
morality, he also had more than his fair share of career reversals and public 
scandals 


This is a day birth in which Venus gains significant status through minor dignities 
and receptions with Mars. Venus occupies its own term and face. Mars is in the trip- 
licity, term and decan of Venus. 

This clearly gives the nod to Venus for control planet in this mutual reception, which 
only confirms earlier observations. Venus is merely in detriment (sometimes it’s 
good to be sort-of-ordinary, compared to the alternatives), while Mars is totally fried 
by combustion. Venus in the 7th house speaks to his battleground in life - re- 
lationships, both personal and social. 


Exchange of 7th and 9th lords 
Parashara says: 


* 1f the 7th lord is situated in the 9th house, the native will have union with many 
women, be well disposed to his own wife, and will initiate a number of deeds. 
(BPHS 26:81) 


* 1f the 9th lord is placed in the 7th house, the native will get happiness through 
his wife. He will be virtuous and famous. (BPHS 26:103) 


This is a mutual reception wherein the lords of these two positive houses are ina 
3/11 relationship. Because of this dynamic, the exchange typically unfolds via for- 
tuitous relationships with significant others. 


The native is healthy, attractive, respected, and fortunate in life. He enjoys a happy 
married life, with a spouse who is well-educated, spiritually inclined, and of a 
strong moral disposition. The spouse is also adventurous, artistic or athletic, and 
well-traveled. His spouse serves his father and/or her own brother, either through 
personal favors or employment. 


Despite the benefits of marriage, he is inclined to pursue other relationships after 
marriage, although without the intention of replacing the spouse. He meets poten- 
tial partners in the course of travel, in libraries and bookstores, or in places of learn- 
ing and worship. 


He travels in pursuit of a higher education, and develops relationships with people 
in the country that hosts him. He is successful in business and trade. Travel is signifi- 
cant, including periods of residence in a foreign country. 


His father is financially successful, and enjoys a wide circle of friends. His father 
travels a lot and could die away from home. 


Famous people with this exchange 


Brendan Behan, playwright; Pat Buchanan, politician; George Carlin, comedian; 
Rubin Carter, homicide; Bruce Chatwin, travel writer; Adolf Eichmann, Nazi; Michael 
Erlewine, astrologer; Gary Hart, politician; Jack Nicholson, actor; Judge Reinhold, 
actor; Gerhard Schroder, politician; Dick Sutphen, mystic; Toni Tennille, singer; Sid 
Vicious, musician; Jerry West, basketball player; Walter Winchell, journalist. 


Case study 


George Carlin was an American comedian, social critic, actor and author who tack- 
led politics, the English language, psychology, religion and various taboo subjects. 


Although raised a Catholic, Carlin rejected it, and in his comedy often criticized 
religion, God and religious adherents. His later routines shifted to socio-cultural 
criticism of modern American society. 


In his youth he joined the Air Force, working part-time as a radio station disc jockey, 
but was court-martialed three times and discharged for being unproductive. 


After establishing himself as a standup comic, he became one of Johnny Carson's 
most frequent substitutes on The Tonight Show. Later he ran afoul of the FCC, 
charged with violating obscenity laws for “Seven Words You Can Never Say on TV.” 


He liked to mix observational humor with larger social commentary, eg, “When 
you're born, you get a ticket to the freak show. When you're born in America, you 
get a front-row seat.” 


His first hardcover book, Brain Droppings, sold 900,000 copies over 40 weeks on the 
New York Times bestseller list. When asked on The Actor’s Studio, what made him 
proudest of his career, he said the number of books he'd sold. 


His first marriage endured 36 years until his wife’s death, and a second marriage 
lasted 10 years until his own death in 2008. 


io 
J 
2 
io) 
i) 
oN 
lo 
aN 
Oo 


- — 13 


= 45" 


o7_ 8b 
NX \ OR ny 


i aeereeee 


Jupiter in 7th house Capricorn is in mutual reception with Saturn in 9th house 
Pisces. There is a sextile between them. Jupiter is debilitated, in sextile with a pow- 
erful Mars, and an out-of-sign trine with the Sun, both fiery planets. Saturn is ordi- 
nary and forms only a trine with Mars. 


Post-exchange, if Jupiter carries its degree into the 9th house, it forms an out-of- 
sign sextile with the Sun, an out-of-sign square with the Moon, and a trine with 
Mars. If Saturn takes its degree to the 7th, it forms only a sextile with Mars. 


Note that wherever these two exchange planets go, they maintain aspects with that 
powerful Mars in Carlin’s 5th house. This correlates with his off-the-wall and fre- 
quently aggressive stage performances. 


7th house themes played out in a stable marital life, and a very interactive relation- 
ship with his fans (especially hecklers) during his live performances. 


The 9th house topics found outlet in his legal issues (both private and professional), 
through his work in broadcast media and the publishing industry, and his penchant 
for poking fun at religion and undermining the establishment. 


The exchange of 7th and 9th lords came full circle a few years after his death, with 
the release of previously-unpublished writings and artwork by Carlin interwoven 


with his second wife's chronicle of their last 10 years together. 


This is a day birth in which Jupiter gains modest status through minor dignities and 
receptions with Saturn. Jupiter and Saturn each occupy their own face. Saturn is in 
the term and decan of Jupiter, while Jupiter is only in the decan of Saturn. 


Although Jupiter exerts some control through minor receptions, it remains a debil- 
itated planet, compared to ordinary Saturn. In the end, it’s a bit of a toss-up, and in 
this case, we might say there is no control planet in this mutual reception. The 7th 
and 9th houses will operate in balance, through fortuitous relationships, wives and 
fans alike. 


Exchange of 7th and 10th lords 
Parashara says: 


* In the event of the 7th lord being placed in the 10th house, the native’s wife will 
not remain under his control. The native himself will be religious and be gifted 
with wealth, sons, etc. (BPHS 26:82) 


* If the 10th lord occupies the 7th house, the native will get happiness through his 
wife, be intelligent, virtuous, eloquent, truthful and devoted to religion. (BPHS 
26:115) 


This is a mutual reception wherein the lords are in a 4/10 relationship from angular 
houses. As a result of this dynamic, the exchange often manifests through an ac- 
complished partner in life who enjoys public success of some sort, which may also 
benefit him. 


The native is spiritually inclined and devoted to his religion or some noble cause. He 
has all the professional skills of a diplomat — able to develop rapport with others, to 
counsel and negotiate successfully, and to reach closure on business agreements. 


He enjoys many gains from business and achieves a status beyond his immediate 
social circle. He profits from partnerships in general, some of which may be culti- 
vated in the course of foreign travel. Professionally, he functions well as some sort 
of agent. 


His spouse is helpful in business. She is career-oriented and ambitious, both for 
herself and for her spouse. She may be involved in transactions involving vehicles or 
property. She is inclined to be autonomous, self-employed or active in social circles, 
acquiring publicity, a good reputation and/or honors in her profession. 


Famous people with this exchange 


Truman Capote, writer; Valerie Harper, actress; Karl Jaspers, philosopher; Kitty 
Kelley, celebrity biographer; Joanna Lumley, actress; Cotton Mather, founder of 
Yale University; Richard Nixon, US President; Dr. Elaine Pagels, Biblical scholar; 
Francis Scobee, astronaut; George Steinbrenner, baseball owner; Bob Woodward, 
journalist. 


Case study 


Richard Nixon was the 37th President of the USA (1968-1974), and the only one to 
resign office, following the Watergate scandal. 


Named after Richard the Lion-Hearted, he was raised in a Quaker household and 
overcame his innate shyness only later in life. He worked in the family business to 
pay his way through college. 


He served in the US Navy during WW2, gaining a reputation as an accomplished 
poker player. Post-war, he was an active anti-Communist, participating in the House 
of Un-American Activities. 


Despite his loss to Kennedy in 1960, amid allegations of Democratic vote fraud, 
Nixon refused to contest the election, fearing it would damage America’s image. 
Later, for similar allegiance to the country, he chose resignation rather than im- 


peachment after Watergate. 


He faced near poverty after resigning, and was down to $500 in the bank, when the 
David Frost interviews earned him $600,000. He later went on to author 10 books in 
his retirement. 


Nixon had a complex personality, secretive and awkward, yet strikingly reflective 
about himself. He distanced himself from peopte and was very formal, wearing a 
coat and tie even when home alone. One biographer called him a “smart, talented 
man, but the most peculiar and haunted of presidents.” 


dp. 
04 
5@ $2 


oie 


Venus in 7th house Aquarius is in mutual reception with Saturn in 10th house Tau- 
rus. The two are in a separating square. Venus is ordinary but forms sextiles with 
Mars, Mercury and Jupiter. Saturn is bright and, aside from squaring Venus, also 
forms a wide out-of-sign square with the Moon. 


Post-exchange, if Venus carries its degree into the 10th house, it is isolated without 
aspecting any other planet. If Saturn takes its degree to the 7th, it forms sextiles 
with Mars, Mercury and Jupiter, as well as a wide out-of-sign conjunction with the 
Moon. 


Perhaps because Venus and Saturn are the only planets in angles, their relative iso- 
lation makes this mutual reception all the more potent and symptomatic of Nixon's 
life and career. 


The 7th house is the place of relationships, marriage and diplomacy. Nixon was 
mutually devoted to his life-long spouse Pat whose support helped him in his ca- 
reer, and whose death deeply affected him. 


With respect to the 10th house, his image has been mixed, quite literally. The media 
took delight in lampooning Nixon through caricatures, while Watergate cast a pall 
upon his reputation. As one biographer said, “How can one evaluate such an idio- 
syncratic president, so brilliant and so morally lacking?” 


And yet history has acknowledged Nixon as perhaps America’s greatest statesman. 
He brought the Vietnam War to an end, opened diplomatic relations with China, 
secured nuclear détente with the Soviet Union, and developed better relations with 
Latin America. 


This is a night birth in which Venus gains modest status via minor receptions with 
its exchange partner, since Saturn is in both the term and decan of Venus. Although 
Saturn is both bright and elevated, Venus plays a more integral role in his chart via 
its aspects with three planets in the 5th house. 

In the end, the crowning of a control planet for this mutual reception may be moot. 
Certainly the placement of Venus in the 7th acknowledges his legacy as a states 
man, while Saturn in the 10th is symptomatic of both his rise to power and fall from 
office. 


Exchange of 7th and 11th lords 
Parashara says: 


* If the 7th lord occupies the 11th house, the native will gain wealth through his 
wife, will get less happiness from his sons, and will have more daughters (than 
sons). (BPHS 26:83) 


* 1f the 11th lord is situated in the 7th house, the native always gains through his 
wife’s relatives. He will be liberal, virtuous, sensual, and will remain at the com- 
mand of his wife. (BPHS 26:127) 


This is a mutual reception wherein the lords are in a 5/9 relationship from kama 
(relationship) houses. Thanks to this dynamic, the exchange often plays out through 
productive partnerships, whether personal, social or professional. 


The native engages in business abroad and enjoys gains of foreign income. He is a 
natural networker, and strengthens his business relationships though partnerships, 
including with those of elder siblings. 


He profits in some way through his spouse. For instance, the spouse will earn a good 
income of her own, or may come from a wealthy family. She may also provide intro- 
ductions to an influential circle of associates that contribute to the native’s prosper- 
ity. She is a romantic and an optimist, and is successful in speculation or games of 
chance. 


The native’s desire nature is strong and he experiences sexual attractions among his 
circle of friends, whether first-hand or through social media. He may be a member 
of a dating club, eg, Ashley Madison or eHarmony, dedicated to sexual liaisons or a 
life partner. 


The elder sibling is likely to pursue higher education in combination with foreign 
travel. Within the context of a dysfunctional family, an elder sibling could become 
romantically involved with the native’s spouse. 


Famous people with this exchange 


Victor Borge, entertainer; Ron Howard, director; Neil Kinnock, politician; Mario 
Lanza, singer; Jack London, writer; Mike Love, musician; Ricky Martin, singer; 
Burgess Meredith, actor/director; Bill Wilson, founder of Alcoholics Anonymous. 


Case study 


Jack London was an American author, journalist, and social activist. A pioneer in 
commercial magazine fiction, he was one of the first writers to obtain worldwide 
celebrity and a large fortune from his fiction alone. 


He was the son of an astrologer and a spiritualist. After one year of college, he 
dropped out and became a self-taught vagrant. He was an oyster pirate, joined 
the Klondike gold rush, roamed London’s slums, savored his adventures and wrote 
them down. 


He was an amateur boxer, an animal rights activist and a passionate advocate of 
unionization, socialism and workers’ rights. He was a war correspondent for the 
1904 Russo-Japanese War. 


He was restless in his first marriage, sought extra-marital sexual affairs, but later 
found in his second wife a sexually active, adventurous partner and life companion. 


London wrote 46 adventure tales that earned him world-wide fame, but he was 
constantly in debt. He was also a dissolute, with poor health (rectal ulcers, skin 
problems, kidney disease) compounded by unusual dietary habits (raw fish and 
meat), alcoholism and drug abuse, the latter of which killed him. 


er a ly 08" 55 5 
ee 59) 
1? *, ny 
57 03 4. 
-—— 4 
| ere aea] Oay 
Oo. Asc cg) 
ay 
10 


Jupiter in 7th house Scorpio is in mutual reception with Mars in 11th house Pisces. 
The two planets are mutual friends and form a close trine. Both are ordinary and 
both form sextiles with Mercury and the (out-of-sign) Sun. Mars is conjunct north 
node Rahu, while Jupiter squares Saturn and out-of-sign Venus. 


Post-exchange, since their degrees are close, the two planets in swapping signs 
would likewise duplicate each other’s aspectual relationships, with the possible ex- 
ception of Mars and Venus failing to close a square within typical orbs. 


Before and after exchange, however, both planets retain aspects with Mercury. As 
lord of the 2nd and Sth (both houses of authorship) in the 9th of publishing, Mer- 
cury evokes his successful writing career. 


The 7th house themes played out in a form of constructive vagrancy, wherein he 
traveled far and wide, engaging in risky adventures wherever he went: boxing, 
piracy, extra-marital affairs, use of prostitutes, and war correspondence. Kidney dis- 
ease is also found under the 7th house. 


The 11th house themes were epitomized by his social activism (advocacy of labor 
union movements, and animal rights long before they became popular), cutting a 
broad swath through society, enormous earnings for a writer of the day, and fame 
through his chronicled exploits. His work was said to reflect every tendency and big 
idea, and at one time he was considered the best-read writer in the United States. 


This is a day birth in which Mars has gained the greater advantage through minor 


dignities and receptions with Jupiter. Mars is in its own triplicity, but occupies a 


decan of Jupiter. Meanwhile, however, Jupiter is in the triplicity, term, face and 
decan of Mars. 


In this case, we can unambiguously award Mars as the control planet in this mutual 
reception. Its position in the 11th evokes his social activism, widespread popularity 
and huge earnings. 


Exchange of 7th and 12th lords 
Parashara says: 


*1f the 7th lord is gone in the 12th house, the native will be penurious, miserly, 
and his wife will be spendthrift. He will earn his livelihood by trading in clothes, 
textiles, garments, etc. (BPHS 26:84) 


* Should the 12th lord occupy the 7th house, the native will always expend on 
account of his wife, will not enjoy conjugal bliss, and will be bereft of learning 
and strength. (BPHS 26:139) 


This is a mutual reception wherein the lords are in a 6/8 relationship. Under this 
dynamic, which mixes the positive and the negative, the exchange can manifest as 
impractical, illusory or self-destructive relationships. 


The native generally lives a troubled life, either as a result of illness, spending too 
much, having an unsatisfactory sex life, or being isolated from the people or things 
he cares for. He travels a lot and may take up foreign residence because of a love 
relationship. He incurs expenses for the sake of love and sex, primarily to please his 
partner, but also for personal indulgence, including the hire of prostitutes. 


Marital life is unhappy due to sexual frustration, betrayal or poor health of the 
spouse. He is separated from his spouse by virtue of emotional disposition, physical 
distance, desertion or death. Prospects are poor for partnerships of all kinds, with 
business associates equally likely to part ways. Contractual agreements with busi- 
ness partners get broken, with debts and financial losses resulting. 


His illnesses take the form of psychosomatic ailments, or real problems with kid- 
neys or sexual organs, including venereal disease. 


He has a great fascination for sexuality in all its forms, and his restless desire to 
experience variety will ultimately be a source of unhappiness. He may engage in 
secretive sexual behavior, or be partner to a secret sexual relationship. Spiritual 
liberation, or moksha, will therefore be elusive so long as he is trapped in an endless 
cycle of sexual relationships. 


Famous people with this exchange 


Eddie Arcaro, jockey; Gabriele d’Annunzio, writer; Betty Ford, American First Lady; 
Ernest Gallo, vintner; Dr. Albert Hoffmann, LSD chemist; Queen Latifah, singer; Liza 
Minnelli, actress; Vladimir Nabokov, writer; Pope John Paul II, ecclesiastic; Wilhelm 
ll, German Emperor. 


Case study 


Liza Minnelli is an American actress and singer best known for the film Cabaret in 
which she won an Academy Award. She first performed on film at age three with her 
mother Judy Garland. 


Primarily considered a pop singer, she’s also appeared in several Broadway produc- 
tions, movies and TV shows. Like Cher, she’s considered both an American and gay 
icon. One critic said, “her every stage appearance is perceived as a victory of show- 
business stamina over psychic frailty.” 


Minnelli has long suffered from alcoholism, and has been addicted to prescription 
drugs. Struggling with substance abuse, she became one of the first prominent peo- 
ple openly talking about rehab. 


She's been married (and divorced) four times. Her first husband was gay. Her 4th 
husband alleged that she beat him in alcohol-induced rages during their marriage. 
She's had three miscarriages, no children. 


After a serious case of viral encephalitis, doctors predicted she'd spend the rest 

of her life in a wheelchair, perhaps never to speak again. No stranger to hospitals, 
she’s had two hip replacements, two knee surgeries, spinal fusion, a polyp removed 
from her vocal cords, and made emergency visits for suspected heart attack, dehy- 
dration and concussion. 


Throughout her lifetime, Minnelli has served various charities she considers very 
important, especially AIDS. 


U 02 Ww 
© a8 
28 po eee 
f oe ee 
x 4 , nN g Q2? 42 = \ 
© 1s 44 | 
| 
0s 
cy? Asc 113) 
. /02 ad | a9) 
(@4 ie 2! 26 YL, 
SPD 
—- 2&. 


Jupiter in 7th house Libra is in mutual reception with Venus in 12th house Pisces. 
The two share no mutual aspect. Jupiter is bright and its only aspect is an out-of- 
sign square with the Moon. Venus is exalted, associated with debilitated Mercury, 
and widely conjunct the out-of-sign Sun. 


Post-exchange, if Jupiter carries its degree into the 12th house, it forms two out- 
of-sign aspects - a conjunction with the Sun and a trine with the Moon. However, 
its association with Mercury would result in two negative house lords in a nega- 
tive house, a reversal-of-misfortunes scenario. This perhaps reflects her ability to 
bounce back from multiple health crises. 


If Venus takes its degree to the 7th, it becomes isolated, almost exactly on the de- 

scendant. This lack of integration with other planets suggests the ephemeral nature 
of relationships, seemingly a life theme for her. Indeed, 7th house themes revealed 
themselves through her multiple marriages and other affairs with celebrities of the 


day. 

But it’s the 12th house that really looms large in doling out her troubles: Valium 
addiction dating back to the traumatic death of her mother, plus alcoholism, insti- 
tutionalization in rehab clinics for substance abuse, and hospitalization for a wide 
range of physical injuries and illnesses. 


A more positive 12th house attribute is her involvement in charities for AIDS and 
children’s brain development. 

This is a day birth in which Venus has gained modest status through minor 
dignities and receptions with Jupiter. Venus is in its own term. Meanwhile, Venus 
is ina decan of Jupiter, while Jupiter is ina decan of Venus. 

Thus, Venus becomes the control planet in this mutual reception, mostly because 
its exaltation trumps Jupiter’s brightness. Its position in the 12th house is 
symptomatic of her many misfortunes - through loss of loved ones, substance 
abuse, rehab and hospitalizations. 


Chapter 13 
Exchanges with the 8th house lord 


Exchange of 8th and 9th lords 
Parashara says: 


* {f the 8th lord is situated in the 9th house, the native will be a betrayer of his 
religion and a heterodox; he will be the husband of a wicked wife and will steal 
other’s wealth. (BPHS 26:93) 


* If the 9th lord is gone in the 8th house, the native will be devoid of fortune, and 
he will not have the happiness of an elder brother. (BPHS 26:104) 


This is a mutual reception wherein the lords — of fortune and misfortune - are ina 
2/12 relationship. Because of this dynamic, typical manifestations include problems 
with the father and a distinct lack of luck in life. 


The native follows an unorthodox religion or spiritual pursuit, and is inclined to- 
ward the so-called “left hand path” of occult studies, eg, sex magic, witchcraft and 
raising the dead. Alternatively, he pursues a conventional spiritual path but is mis- 
led by a false or unreliable guru. His morality is deficient, such that he tries to profit 
materially from those with whom he associates. 


His general fortunes in life are largely obstructed, such that he can’t capitalize on 
opportunities. “Jf it weren't for bad luck, | wouldn't have any luck at all,” goes that 
old blues song. He has difficulty pursuing his higher education, and faces interrup- 
tions or changes in direction. Similarly, foreign travel encounters delays, cancella- 
tions, documentation problems and other complications. He is unsuccessful in legal 
proceedings. 


Physically, he has problems with the hip, lower back and sciatic nerve. 


His father’s health is poor, or his father is subject to accidents, surgeries and mis- 
cellaneous losses or mishaps in life. On the positive side, he may inherit his father’s 
property. 

His potential career path includes the fields of insurance, estate planning, and the 
administration of trusts and wills. 


Famous people with this exchange 


Piers Anthony, writer; Stephen Arroyo, astrologer; Nino Benvenuti, boxer; Jerry 
Brown, politician; Truman Capote, writer; Pete Conrad, astronaut; Clint Eastwood, 
actor; Harlan Ellison, writer; Friedrich Engels, communist; Marvin Gaye, musician; 
D.W. Griffith, director; Larry Hagman, actor; Warren Harding, politician; Dustin 
Hoffman, actor; Bobby Hull, hockey player; Kris Kristofferson, musician; Moebius, 
cartoonist; Franz von Papen, politician; Sean Penn, actor; Sylvia Plath, writer; Pierre 
Salinger, journalist; Jon Voight, actor. 


Case study 


Sylvia Plath was an American poet, novelist, and short-story writer. Her father, a 
biology professor who wrote a book about bees, died of untreated diabetes when 


Plath was eight. Many of her later poems spoke of her love, hate, fear and fused 
identity with that of her father. 


During university, furious at missing a chance to meet poet Dylan Thomas, she 
slashed her legs. Following shock therapy for depression, she took sleeping pills but 
survived after lying in a crawl space under her house for three days. 


Although a brilliant writer, she was tortured by jealousy, obsessions and depression, 
finally learning “to be true to my own weirdness.” She is credited with advancing 
the genre of confessional poetry. 


After marriage to British poet Ted Hughes, they both became interested in astrol- 
ogy, the supernatural and Ouija boards. They had two children but, after he had an 
affair, they separated and she committed suicide by putting her head in a gas oven 
in 1963. 


Posthumous publication of her last poetry book assured Plath’s fame. Critics saw 
the collection as her increasing desperation and death wish. Radical feminists ac- 
cused Hughes of abuse and threatened to kill him in Plath’s name. Their son, fol- 
lowing a history of depression, hanged himself in 2009. 


Wy. 1 


oe o 


a 


Venus in 8th house Virgo is in mutual reception with Mercury in 9th house Libra. 
Unusual for this adjacent-house exchange, Mercury and Venus are actually in aspect 
—an out-of-sign applying sextile within orbs. Mercury is ordinary, exactly square a 
debilitated Mars, sextile Jupiter and in wide applying out-of-sign sextile with ascen- 
dant lord Saturn. Venus is debilitated and trine to Saturn. 


Post-exchange, if Mercury carries its degree into the 8th house, it forms a sextile 
with Mars. If Venus takes its degree to the 9th, it forms a square with Saturn and an 
out-of-sign sextile with Mars. 


Before and after exchange, both planets maintain aspects with a strong Saturn in 
the 12th house, a symbol of isolation and loss. Ominously, the sign-to-sign opposi- 


tion of Mars and Saturn — one weak and one strong — across the 6th and 12th house 
axis is also a signature for self-harm. 


The entwinement of 8th and 9th house themes is powerfully evidenced in Plath’s 
complex feelings around love, despair, rage, vengeance, ambivalence, grief, death, 
redemption and resurrection. Depression, desperation and death wish are also 
bound up in the 8th. 


Father figures loom large in much of her work. Not only is the 9th house damaged 
by the exchange with the 8th lord, but the Sun, significator for the father, is debili- 
tated and in square to a strong Saturn from the 12th. 

This is a day birth in which Mercury has gained moderate advantage via minor dig 
nities and receptions with Venus. Mercury occupies its own decan, while Venus is in 
its own triplicity. After that, Venus is in both the term and decan of Mercury. 

This qualifies Mercury as control planet for this mutual reception, confirming ear 
lier observations on primary dignities - Mercury is ordinary, Venus debilitated. The 
placement of Mercury in the 9th relates to her literary status and feminist legacy. 


Exchange of 8th and 10th lords 
Parashara says: 


* If the 8th lord occupies the 10th house, the native will not have paternal bliss, 
will be a tale bearer and be bereft of livelihood. If there is an aspect in the 
process from a benefic, then these evils will not mature. (BPHS 26:94) 


* In case the 10th lord is posited in the 8th house, the native will be devoid of good 
acts, long-lived, and intent on blaming others. (BPHS 26:116) 


This is a mutual reception wherein the lords are in a 3/11 relationship. Given this 
interaction between the houses of karma and trauma, the exchange often plays out 
through reversals in career or social status, thus affecting reputation. 


The native has difficulty determining his right career and faces false starts and 
changes of direction. He uses all means, both fair and foul, to succeed in his career, 
but despite his best efforts, he encounters impediments and frequent setbacks. 


He has difficulty with self-promotion, and is perceived as someone who lacks the 
drive or skills to succeed. Even when he performs his job well, he doesn’t get credit 
for it, while less qualified people get promoted before he does. He may experience 
embarrassment in a public place, or his social reputation is soiled. 


Appropriate career fields include banking and insurance, medicine and the healing 
arts, psychology and any other discipline dedicated to transformation of the indi- 
vidual. On a more mundane level, mining, salvage and trade in scrap or used arti- 
cles are profitable activities. 


Finally, for some, the business may be immoral or illegal, such as prostitution, theft, 
dealing in contraband or stolen articles, money laundering, etc. 


Famous people with this exchange 


Marcia Clark, prosecutor; Carrie Fisher, actress/writer; Paul Horn, musician; Queen 
Isabel |, Spanish royalty; Sally Kellerman, actress; Jim Lewis, astrologer; Trini Lopez, 
musician; Arthur Scargill, labor leader; Sylvester Stallone, actor/writer; Tina Turner, 
singer; Shania Twain, country artist; Rudolph Valentino, actor. 


Case study 


Tina Turner is a singer, actress, and author whose career has spanned over half 
a century. Noted for her energetic stage presence, powerful vocals and career 
longevity, the “Queen of Rock ‘n’ Roll” has won eight Grammy awards and sold 
more concert tickets than any other solo performer. 


Born to sharecropper parents, her mother fled an abusive relationship, leaving Tina 
and her sister in the care of their grandparents. A self-professed tomboy, she was 
both a cheerleader and basketball player during high school. 


Her music career began when she teamed up with Ike Turner. But after 16 years of 
physical abuse, along with his cocaine habit and blatant infidelities, she ran away 
with only 36 cents in her pocket. She had nose surgery to repair a septum damaged 
from Ike's frequent beatings, and at one time attempted suicide by swallowing 50 
Valium. 


Despite a near-fatal bout with tuberculosis, she transformed her solo career over 
six hard years. Although raised a Baptist, she later melded her faith with Buddhism, 
crediting the religion and its spiritual chant of Nam Myoho Renge Kyo with helping 
her through difficult times. 


She later married a German music executive, renounced her American citizenship 
and became a Swiss national. 


Mars in 8th house Aquarius is in mutual reception with Saturn in 10th house Aries. 
They share no mutual aspect, since the orb is too wide for a sextile. Mars is ordinary, 
at the apex of a T-Square that includes an exalted full Moon, the Sun and a bright 
Mercury. Saturn is in a mixed state, bright but debilitated. It is closely aligned with 
the nodal axis but in a close trine with Venus. 


Post-exchange, if Mars carries its degree into the 10th house, it is isolated except 
for a wide conjunction with south node Ketu. If Saturn takes its degree to the 8th, it 
forms a sextile with Venus and a wide square with the Sun. 


Difficult 8th house themes are seen in partner Ike’s cocaine addiction, her exposure 
to violence at his hands, her debts after splitting from him (leaving her responsible 
for cancelled tour dates), and the resurrection of her career from battered singer/ 
spouse to dynamic solo act. 


10th house themes are evidenced in her enduring legacy as a performer, having 
been inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame, listed in Rolling Stone's Top 20 
singers of all time, and her own star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame. 


This is a night birth in which Mars has gained moderate advantage through minor 
receptions with its exchange partner, since Saturn occupies both the face and decan 
of Mars. Recall the primary dignities, where Mars is ordinary but Saturn debilitated. 


With Mars as the control planet in this mutual reception, its placement in the 8th 
house speaks to her multiple traumas, but also her self-renewal and recovery. 


Exchange of 8th and 11th lords 
Parashara says: 


* Should the 8th lord be placed in the 11th house, the native will be devoid of 
wealth, be miserable in boyhood, but happy in later life, and if the 8th lord be in 
conjunction with a benefic, be long-lived. (BPHS 26:95) 


* tf the 11th lord is fallen in the 8th house, the native will suffer losses in his 
undertakings. He will be long-lived, while his wife will die before him. (BPHS 
26:128) 


This is a mutual reception wherein the lords are in a 4/10 relationship across 
succedent houses. Given the interchange between houses of hope and despair, the 
exchange typically manifests as financial irregularities and broken social relation- 
ships. 


The native experiences many ups and downs in life, especially with respect to 
income. His hopes and ambitions are jeopardized by unforeseen circumstances. He 
sustains reversals and financial losses in his undertakings. 


His longevity is good, and he recovers from accidents and surgeries. He has hearing 
problems on the left side, or problems with the left hand or arm. 


Friends and elder siblings are a source of unhappiness, either in his relationship 
with them, or because they suffer misfortunes in their lives. Friends and elder sib- 
lings may be undependable, neglectful or abusive. 


In the case of a second marriage, his wife's children (Sth from the 7th) will be a 
source of unhappiness, through substance abuse, inadequate education, or financial 
mismanagement. 


He is the beneficiary of family inheritance or insurance policies, although he may 
in turn lose a good portion of this windfall. He works in the insurance field or some 
other business related to death or trauma, although this is not highly-paid work. 


Famous people with this exchange 


Les Aspin, politician; Karen Black, actress; Princess Caroline, Monaco royalty; 
Jacques Chirac, politician; Michael Elliott, Olympic skier; Jean Luc Godard, director; 
Clifford Irving, writer; Virginia Johnson, sex therapist; Albert Kesselring, militarist; 
Josef Mengele, Nazi doctor; Gerhardus Mercator, cartographer; Ryan O'Neal, actor; 
Lee Harvey Oswald, assassin; Siegfried, illusionist; Lily Tomlin, comedienne; Al 
Unser, race car driver; Raquel Welch, actress; Natalie Wood, actress. 


Case study 


Virginia Johnson was an American sexologist, writer and co-founder of the Masters 
and Johnson Institute. She and William Masters established a research foundation 
to study the psychology and physiology of sex using volunteer subjects under labo- 
ratory conditions. 


At age 16 Johnson had enrolled in college but dropped out, spending four years ina 
state insurance office. She returned to college, studied music and began a career as 
a vocalist, singing country for a local radio station. 


She became a business writer for a newspaper, studied sociology but never finished 
her degree. While at university she was hired as a research assistant at the Depart- 
ment of Obstetrics and Gynecology. 


There she met William Masters and together developed polygraph-like instruments 
to measure human sexual arousal and its phases - excitement, plateau, orgasm, and 
resolution. 


Although Masters and Johnson became a household word, she had serious reser- 
vations about their Institute’s program to convert homosexuals into heterosexuals. 
Showtime recently broadcast a TV drama series based on the biography Masters of 
Sex. 


Johnson was divorced four times. The first marriage to a politician lasted two days. 
She married a much older attorney and divorced him. She married a bandleader for 
six years and two kids. She married William Masters and divorced him too. 


Perhaps she never found resolution. 


sient |i) 
Bea 19 : 
ce ies 1 26 : b 

() 26 46" ; 2 
f a 24 
NVA 
“ 59) 00 3) MB 
| \ | | 


Saturn in 8th house Libra is in mutual reception with Venus in 11th house Capricorn. 
The two share no mutual aspect, the orb too wide for a potential square. Venus is 


ordinary, conjunct Mercury and square a strong Mars. Saturn is exalted and sextile 
to a strong Jupiter. 


Post-exchange, if Saturn carries its degree into the 11th house, it falls right on the 
nodal axis and widely conjoins the Sun. If Venus takes its degree to the 8th, it ex- 
actly opposes Mars while squaring Mercury. 


The 8th house themes are active via early employment in the insurance industry, 
changes in studies, work in gynecology department, irregular marital life and di- 
vorce, scientific research applied to human sexual response, and (regrettably) ex- 
periments in sexual conversion. 


Her 11th house themes are revealed through a politician husband, a band-leader 
husband, radio work, her sociological studies and legacy, and the recent TV drama- 
tization of Masters and Johnson, which has popularized their work all over again. 


This is a day birth, in which Venus has gained modest advantage through minor 
dignities. Venus is in its own triplicity and decan, while Saturn is in its own triplicity. 
This is a relatively rare case where neither planet engages in minor receptions with 
the other. 

Although Venus gains in minor dignities, Saturn is exalted while Venus remains 
ordinary. This, plus the fact that Saturn enjoys a sextile with the ascendant lord 
Jupiter, inclines one to judge Saturn as the appropriate control planet for this mu- 
tual reception. Certainly, its placement in the 8th speaks to her legacy in matters of 
sexual research. 


Exchange of 8th and 12th lords 
Parashara says: 


* If the 8th lord be situated in the 12th house, the native will squander his wealth 
on evil deeds, be short-lived, more so if he is in conjunction with a malefic 
planet. (BPHS 26:96) 


* In case the 12th lord is gone in the 8th house, the native will always have gains, 
will speak affably, will enjoy a medium span of life, and he will be endowed with 
all good qualities. (BPHS 26:140) 


This is a mutual reception wherein the lords are in a 5/9 relationship from equally 
troublesome houses. Due to this dynamic, the exchange may manifest as a series of 
traumas and losses, occasionally with recovery. 


The native is drawn to spiritual life, but may be a dilettante incapable of consistent 
efforts in his practice. He’s unable to sustain his pursuit of liberation, or moksha, 
because of distraction from sexual desires. 


He has unanticipated expenses due to accidents, insurance claims, and psycholog- 
ical or medical problems. Alternatively, he prefers to spend his money on occult 
studies or sexual indulgences. He has a powerful sexual presence, with the ability to 
charm and seduce the objects of his desire, but he lacks sexual fulfillment and is ina 
state of constant craving. 


Physically, he has problems with his feet, sexual or eliminative organs. His sleep is 
disturbed, or he gets no pleasure from sleep. His dreams may be upsetting. 


Foreign residence is problematic for him, with unexpected misfortunes in the course 
of his stay. Alternatively, he may not like foreign cultures, or have difficulty inter- 
acting with foreigners. A certain degree of xenophobia may exist. 


He has a heightened sensitivity, and may be intuitive, psychologically acute or 
psychic. On the flip side, he might suffer delusions or hear voices. He’s likely to be 
isolated at some point in time, either voluntarily or involuntarily. On the positive 
side, this could mean retreat into seclusion, or time spent in an ashram. On the 
negative side, it could spell prison time, hospitalization or confinement to a mental 
institution. 


Famous people with this exchange 


Czar Alexander |, Russian royalty; Melvin Belli, attorney; William Holden, actor; 
Alan Leo, astrologer; Elizabeth Montgomery, actress; Santha Rama Rau, occult 
writer; Arantxa Sanchez-Vicario, tennis pro; Jack Swigert, astronaut/politician; 
Sharon Tate, actress; Usher, singer/actor; Edgard Varese, composer; Stevie Wonder, 
musician. 


Case study 


Melvin Belli was a prominent American lawyer known as “The King of Torts.” His 
celebrity clients included Muhammad Ali, the Rolling Stones, Jim and Tammy 
Bakker, and Jack Ruby. 


After law school, his first job was undercover investigator, riding the rails as a hobo 


to observe the Depression’s effect on the country’s vagrants. 


Belli pioneered a jury-winning technique of dramatically demonstrating evidence, 
turning courtroom trials into theater, complete with props. He favored tailored 
suits, a red silk handkerchief and snake-skin boots. 


His unprecedented use of graphic evidence and expert witnesses later became com- 
mon courtroom practice. His principle of absolute Liability, wherein manufacturers 
are automatically liable for injury caused by their products, set the stage for later 
consumer protection litigation. 


After winning a case, he'd raise a Jolly Roger flag over his office building (formerly a 
brothel) and fire a cannon shot to announce a victory celebration. 


Sometimes his victories were hollow. In 1995 Belli represented 800 women ina 
class action against breast implant manufacturer Dow Corning. Belli won the case, 
but when Dow Corning declared bankruptcy, he couldn't recover the $5 million he'd 
advanced to doctors and expert witnesses, and was forced to file for bankruptcy 
protection. 


Belli loved luxury homes, cars and yachts, travel and beautiful women. Most of all, 
he loved the law and authored 62 books, earning a successful second career on the 
lecture circuit. 


Belli was married six times and divorced five. In his later years, he was enmeshed 
in legal battles, facing malpractice suits and owing a mountain of debts, including 
back taxes. 


So. .20OUr® 
ple 5) AN 
te i a bp 
; ; 21 04 


8% ; sf * 34 
Bo. * 
| | tae | | 
| 
\ | 749 08" O9 
5}, ASC ” Uys 
\ 10° 


Is 


JR 
Tm a 


iy 


The Moon in 8th house Pisces is in mutual reception with Jupiter in 12th house 
Cancer. The trine between them stretches the typical limits of orb. The Moon is in 
a wide separating conjunction with Saturn, a close trine with the Sun and a square 
with Mars. Jupiter sits on the nodal axis where it conjoins bright Mercury and an 
out-of-sign Venus, plus a wide conjunction with the Sun and a trine with Saturn. 


Post-exchange, if the Moon carries its degree to the 12th house, it exactly conjoins 
the Sun. If Jupiter takes its degree to the 8th, it closely conjoins Saturn while main- 
taining trines with Mercury and an out-of-sign Venus. 


Before and after exchange, the two maintain relationships with the Sun, Mercury 
and Saturn, of which the bright Mercury is arguably the most significant. As lord of 
two money houses (the 2nd and 11th) located in the 12th of loss, its status is reflec- 
tive of both the nature of Belli’s business and his personal finances. 


The 8th and 12th house exchange is a form of negation-of-negatives. Indeed, the 
theme of “clouds with silver linings” was prominent in his career. His command of 
torts, or personal injury lawsuits, was instrumental in building his reputation. For 
every personal injury (loss) suffered by a client, there were potential damages to be 
sued (gain) from an employer or manufacturer. 

This is a day birth in which neither exchange planet achieves advantage over the 
other through minor dignities or receptions. The Moon is in its own decan but in the 
term and face of Jupiter. Meanwhile, Jupiter is in the decan of the Moon. 

With no clear indication from the above, recall the primary dignities: the Moon is 
ordinary while Jupiter is exalted. So Jupiter becomes the control planet for this mu- 
tual reception. 

Its placement in the 12th house reminds us that his life’s work was all about loss 
management - first, a client’s suffering loss of wellbeing, but after successful litiga- 
tion, loss imposed upon the manufacturer in damages awarded by the court. 


Chapter 14 
Exchanges with the 9th house lord 


Exchange of 9th and 10th lords 
Parashara says: 


* If the 9th lord is placed in the 10th house, the native will be a king or equal to 
a king, or be a minister or an army chief, be virtuous and be worshipped by all. 
(BPHS 26:106) 


* Should the 10th lord occupy the 9th house, the native is born in a royal family 
and becomes a king, while as an ordinary person he will be equal to a king. This 
combination confers on him wealth and progenic happiness. (BPHS 26:117) 


This is a mutual reception wherein the lords are in a 2/12 relationship. These are 
two of the most important and beneficial houses in the chart, and their reciprocal 
relationship is pivotal. 


The 9th is the primary house of dharma, the 10th that of karma. Thus, this exchange 
is bound to manifest via larger-than-life issues involving ethics, right action, per- 
sonal belief systems, worldly effort, social reputation and fame. 


The native is lucky and successful in life, with authority and high social reputation. 
He has a strong dharma, with an inclination to do the right thing and, thanks to 
good karma in this life, the things he does turn out well. 


He receives a higher education in religion, law, ethics or philosophy, and travels 
extensively in pursuit of his studies. He acquires a teacher, mentor or guru who is 
well-known, accomplished and/or revered. 


His father is successful, educated, wealthy, well-known and influential in some 
way that influences the native’s career choice. His father may have a strong voice, 
whether literally in oratory or singing, or figuratively, as a public voice in politics. 


This exchange favors a career in academia, publishing, government and the law, or 
provides benefits through association with such fields. In whatever career, the na- 
tive appears to enjoy fortuitous circumstances that contribute to his success. 


Famous people with this exchange 


Richard Bach, writer; Kurt Browning, figure skater; Cesar Chavez, labor leader; Caryl 
Chessman, serial killer; Deepak Chopra, author; Karl Doenitz, militarist; Albert Ein- 
stein, scientist; David Frost, TV personality; King George III, British royalty; Mark 
Hamill, actor; Geri Halliwell, pop singer; John Higgins, snooker player; Peter Jen- 
nings, journalist; Ferruccio Lamborghini, automaker; Courtney Love, musician; Bela 
Lugosi, actor; Tracy Marks, astrologer; Joe Montana, football player; Marcia Moore, 
astrologer; Clifford Odets, playwright; Roy Rogers, actor; Will Rogers, humorist; 
Murray Rose, Olympic swimmer; Charles Starkweather, mass murderer; Harry S. 
Truman, US President. 


Case study 


Albert Einstein was a German-born theoretical physicist who developed the general 


theory of relativity, paving the way for 20th century physics and providing the es- 
sential structure of the cosmos. He won the 1922 Nobel Prize for his contributions 
to theoretical physics. 


He was born with a misshapen head and abnormally large body. He learned to talk 
so late his parents feared he was retarded, and he wasn’t fluent until he was nine. 


After renouncing German citizenship, he took a post at the Swiss patent office 
where he worked on his theory of relativity. E=mc? was since dubbed “the world’s 
most famous equation.” 


He moved to the USA and accepted a teaching post at Princeton University. He 
published over 300 scientific papers and 150 non-scientific works. His intellectual 
originality made “Einstein” synonymous with genius. He spent his final years work- 
ing on a unified field theory. 


Married and divorced from his first wife, he promised his future Nobel Prize money 
as part of his alimony. A musician by hobby, he gave up the violin in the last few 
years of his life, but enjoyed playing Bach and Mozart on his grand piano. 


Einstein was a passionate, committed pacifist, socialist and anti-racist. 


“ 


© 
ID 


Jupiter in 9th house Aquarius is in mutual reception with Saturn in 10th house 
Pisces. The two share no mutual aspect. Jupiter is ordinary and aspects no other 


planet. Saturn is part of a large stellium, within which it conjoins the debilitated as- 
cendant lord Mercury. 


Post-exchange, if Jupiter carries its degree into the 10th house, it becomes moder- 
ately combust and conjoins Mercury. If Saturn takes its degree into the 9th, it be- 
comes as isolated as Jupiter was. 


9th house themes played out in his prestigious professorships in England and Amer- 
ica, his theoretical work, and his cosmology. 


10th house themes include honors and recognition via the Nobel Prize, public 
demand for speaking engagements, and his world-class reputation as a scientific 
genius. Less well known is the fact that he declined the honor to be made the first 
President of Israel. 


This is a day birth in which Saturn gains modest advantage through minor dignities 
and receptions with Jupiter. Saturn is in the term and face of Jupiter, while Jupiter is 
in the triplicity, term and decan of Saturn. 


Since this gives only a cursory nod to Saturn, we return to primary dignities and 
note that Jupiter and Saturn are both ordinary. Although we could resign ourselves 
to thinking of them as coequals, we could also weigh their importance in terms of 
integration. 

Jupiter is isolated but Saturn is part of a stellium that includes its conjunction with 
ascendant lord Mercury. Thanks to this, we can judge Saturn to be the control planet 
for this mutual reception. Its placement in the 10th reflects his huge and lasting 
status as a scientist. 


Exchange of 9th and 11th lords 
Parashara says: 


* Should the 9th lord be situated in the 11th house, the native will have financial 
gains day by day, be devoted to his teachers, virtuous, and be doer of charitable 
deeds. (BPHS 26:107) 


* {f the 11th lord happens to be placed in the 9th house, the native will be fortu- 
nate, skillful, truthful, honored by the King, and wealthy. (BPHS 26:129) 


This is a mutual reception wherein the lords are in a 3/11 relationship. Because of 
this dynamic, there is a bias for communication, teaching and courageous (right) ac- 
tion within a larger social context, whether artistic, business or political. 


The native is successful in his spiritual pursuits, and has a guru who is a spiritual 
leader, with whom he develops a relationship like a friend. He receives honors and 
is held in high esteem by friends and social organizations. His friends, who may 
include clerics, lawyers, philosophers, professors and writers, are lucky and success- 
ful. 


His father is athletic, fortunate, wealthy, intellectual, sociable, and makes many 
short journeys. His elder siblings are very fortunate in life, enjoying good incomes 
and achieving their ambitions. 


He is very lucky in financial matters, and makes money through activities requiring 
relatively little effort, eg, through stock market investment, lotteries and other 
games of chance, or businesses that generate inordinate profits. He finds fortune in 
fields of publishing, law, travel, social media and the entertainment industry. 


Famous people with this exchange 


Honoré de Balzac, writer; Jeanne Calment, record longevity (122+ years); Gustave 
Courbet, artist; Catherine Deneuve, actress; Robert Downey Jr., actor; Roger Elliot, 
astrologer; Peter Hurkos, psychic; Al Jardine, musician; Moses Ben Maimon, philoso- 
pher; Steve McQueen, actor; Alfred de Musset, playwright; Ricky Nelson, singer; 
James Polk, politician; Erwin Rommel, militarist; Donald Rumsfeld, Defense Secre- 
tary; Queen Victoria, British royalty. 


Case study 


Erwin Rommel was a German Field Marshall in WW2, dubbed the “Desert Fox” for 
his success with the Afrika Korps. He'd originally considered becoming an engineer 
but joined the military at the request of his headmaster father, who'd served in the 
artillery. 


In WW1, Rommel earned a reputation for courage and quick decisions, was 
wounded three times, and highly decorated. His war diaries became highly regarded 
by Hitler. 


Between wars, he headed the War Academy and wrote a textbook on military 
tactics. He believed commanders must suffer whatever hardships front-line soldiers 
faced, for the sake of troop morale. 


Rommel’s marriage was happy, and he wrote his wife a letter every day while in the 


field. 


In the invasion of France, his tank division became known as the “Ghost Division” 
because its rapid advances placed it so far forward that their actual position was 
unknown. 


He was regarded a humane and professional officer. His Afrika Korps was never ac- 
cused of war crimes, and captured Allied soldiers were treated well. During his time 
in France, he disobeyed Hitler’s orders to deport Jews. 


His criticism of SS brutalities implied involvement in a failed attempt to assassinate 
Hitler. Because Rommel was a national hero, Hitler had to eliminate him quietly. 
Faced with court martial, Rommel chose forced suicide by cyanide. 


io aren 
MO es ae, 
noes aS |: 
S04 4D i? is 
Qe 11 007 ee ae 
Sa 
7 @ 
| | 
| } | 
| | | 
\ \ 02? 45' ) 
V8. Asc I 
02 00' 
16 05 O4 
2, . @ 
w“ "3 O 
a Ce 


Mars in 9th house Virgo is in mutual reception with Mercury in 11th house Scorpio. 
The two share no mutual aspect. Mars is ordinary but occupies the same sign/house 
as ascendant lord Saturn. Mercury is ordinary too, but forms aspects with three 
other planets — a conjunction with Venus, a square with Jupiter and a sextile with 
Saturn. It also lies near the nodal axis, which has the power to amplify its effects. 


Post-exchange, if Mars carries its degree into the 11th house, it forms wide aspects 
with two benefics — a conjunction with Venus and a square with Jupiter. If Mercury 
takes its degree into the 9th, it conjoins Saturn and forms a sextile with Venus. 


Sth house themes are strongly in evidence: his father’s academic and military expe- 
rience, his own publications in tactical theory, his command of a military academy, 
and his profound moral courage in defying Hitler’s Nazi doctrine. 


11th house themes played out in spectacular successes over the course of two wars, 
popularity among his own troops, grudging respect from his military opponents, 
posthumous fame through the well-received movie The Desert Fox, and other hon- 
ors, eg, having a museum in Germany named after him. 


This is a day birth in which neither planet gains advantage via minor receptions 
with its exchange partner. Mercury is in the triplicity of Mars, while Mars occupies a 
face of Mercury. Since this constitutes a tie, we must return to primary dignities. 


Here too it remains a tough call, since both planets are ordinary. Mars associates 
with the ascendant lord Saturn while Mercury participates in a stellium. In the end 
we might look for a military advantage, ie, to occupy the higher ground. 

In this case, Mars is the more elevated of the two, and may be judged the control 
planet for this mutual reception. Its placement in the 9th speaks to the moral code of 
an honorable warrior, for which Rommel was loved by his troops and country, and 
admired by his enemies. 


Exchange of 9th and 12th lords 
Parashara says: 


* If the 9th lord is situated in the 12th house, the native will incur loss of fortunes, 
will always spend his money on auspicious acts, and will become poor because 
of spending money on entertaining guests. (BPHS 26:108) 


* Should the 12th lord occupy the 9th house, the native will dishonor his teachers, 
be inimical even to his friends, and be always intent on achieving his own ends. 
(BPHS 26:141) 


This is a mutual reception wherein the lords are in a 4/10 relationship from cadent 
houses. Due to this dynamic, the exchange may manifest as something of a morality 
play, wherein disregard of ethics or universal law causes a person to undermine his 
own life and thus become his own worst enemy. 


The native has a strong interest in personal development, travels in pursuit of 
academic or spiritual studies, and acquires a foreign guru. He spends money on 
seemingly worthwhile causes such as education, charity and support of his guru. 
However, unless he has exercised good moral judgment, some of these monies could 
be ill-spent on wrong causes. 


His father is a religious or spiritually-inclined man, but is psychologically distant, in 
poor health, or physically far from home. He may be engaged in unethical transac- 
tions involving vehicles or properties (the 12th is 4th from the 9th). 


The native is engaged in business abroad, undertakes long and beneficial travels, 
and assumes foreign residence. Due to his desire to achieve his own ends and no 
other, he may bring discredit upon both himself and his teachers. In the worst case, 
he may commit a crime and be imprisoned or otherwise restrained because of his 
actions. 


He is unlucky, except in sexual matters, where he enjoys wide experience, but re- 
mains ultimately unsatisfied. 


Famous people with this exchange 


Ann-Margret, actress; Bo Derek, actress; Glenn Ford, actor; Dorothy Hamill, figure 
skater; George Roy Hill, director; Eric Idle, actor; Marsha Mason, actress; Matthew 
McConaughey, actor; Martina Navratilova, tennis player; Tom Selleck, actor; Tom 
Waits, musician; Loretta Young, actress. 


Case study 


Tom Waits is an American singer-songwriter, composer and actor. One critic 
described his distinctive voice “like it was soaked in bourbon, hung in the smoke- 
house, then taken outside and run over with a car.” 


Waits’ atmospheric lyrics, written in a cynical and pessimistic tone, frequently por- 
tray grotesque and seedy characters and places. Although his albums have found 
mixed commercial success in the USA, they’ve occasionally achieved gold in other 
countries. 


After military service with the US Coast Guard, he began his career in the LA music 


scene. He put together a touring band, The Nocturnal Emissions, to cover every- 
thing from sleazy strip-show blues to supercilious lounge lizardry. He lived in mo- 
tels for years, eating bad food and drinking too much. 


One critic wrote, “A sympathetic chronicler of the adrift and downtrodden, Waits 
creates three-dimensional characters who, even in their confusion and despair, offer 
insight and startling points of view.” 


Waits has won, sometimes with substantive settlements, several lawsuits against 
advertisers using his material without permission. Separately, he also won a lawsuit 
against the LAPD. 


Waits has donated some of his legal settlements to charity. A limited edition book 
of poems raised $90,000 for a local food bank. 


ee: 


Mars in 9th house Leo is in mutual reception with the Sun in 12th house Scorpio. 
The two form an applying square. Mars is ordinary, conjunct Saturn and squaring an 
out-of-sign Mercury. The Sun is also ordinary and squares Saturn. 


Post-exchange, if Mars carries its degree into the 12th house, it squares Saturn and 
forms an out-of-sign conjunction with Mercury. If the Sun takes its degree into the 
9th, it conjoins Saturn, forms a wide sextile with the Moon, and a wide out-of-sign 
square with Mercury. 

No matter where either of these exchange planets go, they end up in confronta- 


tional aspects with Saturn, a natural enemy of both. This reflects in part Waits’ 
struggle to achieve success commensurate with his talent. 


9th house themes played out in a schoolteacher father who taught a foreign lan- 
guage, a mixed bag of luck in life, high principles (for some things), a philosophical 
turn of mind, foreign travels and successful court judgments. 


12th house themes are evident in his years of addiction, his rootless wandering, his 


greater professional success abroad than at home, and his donations to charitable 
causes. 


Even his touring band’s name, The Nocturnal Emissions, suggests all of the hall- 
marks of the 12th house — pleasures of the bed, sleep, sex, dreams, and unconscious 
release. 

This is a day birth in which Mars has gained the most advantage through minor 
dignities and receptions with the Sun. Mars occupies its own term, face and decan. 
Mars is in a triplicity of the Sun, while the Sun is in a triplicity of Mars. 

Thus, Mars is the control planet for this mutual reception. Its placement (with Sat- 
urn) in the 9th reflects Waits’ cynical and pessimistic philosophy. 


Chapter 15 
Exchanges with the 10th house lord 


Exchange of 10th and 11th lords 
Parashara says: 


* {f the 10th lord is situated in the 11th house, the native is blessed with wealth 
and sons. He will enjoy happiness, be truthful, be always delighted, and be vir- 
tuous. (BPHS 26:119) 


* Should the 11th lord be situated in the 10th house, the native will be honored 
by the king, be virtuous, devoted to his religion, truthful, and subdue his senses. 
(BPHS 26:130) 


This is a mutual reception wherein the lords are in a 2/12 relationship. The ex- 
change may manifest in the entertainment, political or financial arenas, through 
successful investments and resultant income. 


The native has a successful career, a good reputation and is happy with his status in 
life. He thinks big and thrives in large corporate environments. He is well connected 
with people who enjoy business success and political influence. 


He is fortunate in being able to fulfill his ambitions and materialize his dreams, and 
has the ability to inspire others to do the same. This favors careers in entertain- 
ment, inspirational speaking, financial management and social media. 


He achieves prosperity through business with the help of friends or elder siblings. 
Ironically, his elder siblings suffer losses at the hands of secret enemies. 


Because the lord of the 10th, the karma karaka, is in the 11th from whence it as- 
pects the 5th house, the individual is capable of restraining his mind and his senses 
to obey his will. As the shastras suggest, “He will subdue his senses.” 


Famous people with this exchange 


Mose Alison, musician; Princess Anne, British royalty; Josephine Baker, entertainer; 
Mike Bloomfield, musician; Bill Bradley, politician; Charles Bronson, actor; George 
Bush Sr., US President; Olivia DeHavilland, actress; Alan Dershowitz, lawyer; Glenn 
Ford, actor; George Gershwin, composer; Elliott Gould, actor; Graham Greene, 
writer; Gaylord Hauser, food advocate; George Roy Hill, director; Kirk Kerkorian, en- 
trepreneur; Amyr Klynk, adventurer; Grant Lewi, astrologer; Marcello Mastroianni, 
actor; Joan Miro, artist; Brian Mulroney, politician; John Nash, mathematician; Syd- 
ney Omarr, astrologer; Roman Polanski, director; William Rehnquist, jurist; Susan 
Sarandon, actress; Elvis Stojko, figure skater; Jack Welch, corporate executive. 


Case study 


Josephine Baker was an American-French singer and entertainer. Nude on stage, she 
was an ebony statue — sexy, dazzling and exotic. Paris adored her. Hemingway called 
her the most sensational woman anybody ever saw or ever will. 


Raised in poverty, she worked in white homes, sleeping in the basement with the 
dog. After being discovered street dancing, she went to New York and was billed as 


“the highest-paid chorus girl in vaudeville.” 


On a Paris tour, she became an overnight sensation, wearing only a skirt of bananas. 
She had a gift for communicating with the audience. Her jungle elegance onstage 
was complemented by her pet cheetah. 


Fluent in French, German, Italian and English, during WW2 she was an Allied spy. 
Post-war, she refused to perform for segregated audiences in America, and was 
once offered unofficial leadership in the Civil Rights Movement. 


She was married four times and adopted a “rainbow tribe” of 12 kids from all over 
the world. Her son claimed she was bisexual. After decades of wealth, she became 
extravagant and lost everything. Princess Grace arranged a house for her in Monte 
Carlo. After a heart attack, she recovered to make a triumphal return to the stage, 
but died four days later of a cerebral hemorrhage. 


03 VY 
\ A 
i) Ww, 
(°F $b 16, an: 2 4 

| 

) . | 

10 04 26 29 H 


“hy 
Mercury in 10th house Taurus is in mutual reception with Venus in 11th house Gem- 


ini. The two share no mutual aspect. Mercury is widely combust. Venus is ordinary 
and trine to Saturn. 


Post-exchange, if Mercury carries its degree into the 11th house, it forms a wide 
trine with the Moon. If Venus takes its degree into the 10th, it becomes seriously 
combust while squaring Saturn. 


The 10th house themes are well evident via her immense public popularity, her 
tremendous social rise “from a wild little dancer with a decent voice to a magnifi- 
cent diva,” and to her positive action and effect on the cause of desegregation in 
America. 


11th house themes are revealed through troupe performance, robust income, broad 
social connections (Grace Kelly, Hemingway, Georges Simenon, Castro), and the civil 
rights movement. 


This is a day birth in which Venus has gained modest advantage through minor 
dignities and receptions with Mercury. Venus is in its own term and decan. Mercury 
is in its own term and decan, while occupying the triplicity of Venus. 


This suggests Venus as control planet for this mutual reception. As noted earlier, 
Venus is ordinary while Mercury is combust. The placement of Venus in the 11th 
house reflects her status as a performing artist with a passion for the civil rights 
movement. 


Exchange of 10th and 12th lords 
Parashara says: 


* 1f the 10th lord is placed in the 12th house, the native will spend in royal courts. 
He will also have fear from enemies and will be worried in spite of being skillful. 
(BPHS 26:120) 


* 1f the 12th lord is situated in the 10th house, the native will rise through royal 
persons and will enjoy only moderate paternal bliss. (BPHS 26:142) 


This is a mutual reception wherein the lords are in a 3/11 relationship. The ex- 
change may reveal its effect through scandal or unwelcome publicity, whether per- 
sonal or professional. 


The native is torn between the pursuits of spirituality and his career, and will 
therefore suffer frustrations in both. “One cannot worship Lakshmi (wealth) and 
Saraswati (knowledge) under the same roof.” Since his goals are more spiritual than 
mundane, he is disinclined to work hard for materialistic gain. 


He has difficulty finding his true career, and experiences reversals in his profession, 
losses in business, and general unhappiness in his career. His profession may involve 
isolation or rehabilitation, such as in hospitals, sanitariums, correctional institu- 
tions, or ashrams. Some aspect of his job causes worry or unrest, contributing to 
insomnia. 


His sexual reputation is exposed to the public eye, or his career may be somehow 
related to sexuality. 


He works for a multi-national company, or takes up foreign residence because of his 
career. Alternatively, his career may involve import/export or immigration. He has 
many expenses or losses in business through foreign exchange, tax deductions, cus- 
toms duties or government penalties. 


Famous people with this exchange 


Sir Claude Auchinleck, militarist; Bela Bartok, composer; Craig Breedlove, race car 
driver; Dick Cavett, talk show host; Teilhard de Chardin, paleontologist; Samuel 
Taylor Coleridge, poet; Kim Kardashian, reality show celeb; Bobby Knight, basket- 
ball coach; Alfred Von Krupp, industrialist; Janet Leigh, actress; Herman Melville, 
writer; Friedrich Nietzsche, philosopher; Arthur Schopenhauer, philosopher; Charles 
Steinmetz, scientist; Kiefer Sutherland, actor; Lee Trevino, golfer; Brenda Vacarro, 
actress. 


Case study 


Friedrich Nietzsche was a German philosopher and cultural critic who wrote on re- 
ligion, morality, contemporary culture, philosophy and science. His most important 
ideas, will to power and the Superman, champion the creative powers of the indi- 
vidual to strive beyond social, cultural, and moral contexts. 


Brought up in a strict Christian home, he was plagued by illnesses as a child, includ- 
ing migraines, violent indigestion, and moments of shortsightedness that left him 
nearly blind. He served as a medical orderly in the Franco-Prussian War, contracting 
diphtheria, dysentery and, possibly, syphilis. 


Although granted a university teaching post at age 24 he abandoned it to spend 

a decade traveling Europe, during which time he wrote his important works. He 
rubbed shoulders with cultural heavyweights of the era — Richard Wagner, Rudolf 
Steiner, August Strindberg — but never achieved in public popularity the recognition 
bestowed by his peers. 


His mental degeneration, brought on by syphilis or its contemporary cure mercury, 
resulted in delusions of grandeur and multiple personalities. He was declared in- 
sane and incarcerated for 11 years in a vegetative state until his death. 


He never married. One theory suggests he was a homosexual in an era with no out- 
lets. Separately, there was rumored incest with his sister. Ironically, she edited his 
last posthumous book, perverting his ideas to support Nazi doctrine. 


12 
a a7 4 
Ooo 25, \ ig: 15 U \ 
| | 
| = nel 
Roe a, | | 
\ my Claes a) 
q Ee a \ ! 
\a 19! 
: 0-4 "9 
ri 
o b “} 
Wee 


Venus in 10th house Leo is in mutual reception with the Sun in 12th house Libra. 
The two share no mutual aspect. The Sun is debilitated and widely square Saturn. 
Venus is ordinary and square the Moon. 


Post-exchange, if Venus carries its degree to the 12th house, it squares Saturn. If 
the Sun takes its degree into the 10th, it becomes isolated, unaspected by any other 
planet. 


Although the astrological reasons for Nietzsche’s enduring contribution to philoso- 
phy are found elsewhere, the 10th house themes played out in more modest ways: 


Early on, he was introduced to society through school classmates who came from 
the best families. He achieved honors in his studies and critical acclaim for his ideas. 
He desired larger recognition but was reduced in the end to megalomania, ranking 
himself with other geniuses like the Buddha, Alexander the Great, Caesar, Voltaire, 
and Napoleon. 


12th house themes can be seen in frequent illness and convalescence throughout 
his life, his 10-year wandering throughout Europe, unknown sex life, mental de- 


rangement and his 11-year incarceration in an asylum. 


This is a day birth in which Venus has gained modest advantage through minor 
dignities and receptions with the Sun. Venus occupies its own term. Venus is in a 
triplicity of the Sun, while the Sun occupies a decan of Venus. 


This confirms Venus as the control planet for this mutual reception. As noted ear- 
lier, the Sun is debilitated whereas Venus is just ordinary. The placement of Venus 
in the 10th, despite his own diminished expectations, reflects his lasting reputation. 


Chapter 16 
Exchanges with the 11th house lord 


Exchange of 11th and 12th lords 
Parashara says: 


* Should the 11th lord occupy the 12th house, the native will always expend on 
good deeds, be sensual, will have many wives, and will have friendship with bar- 
barians or foreigners in general. (BPHS 26:132) 


* In case the 12th lord is placed in the 11th house, the native will incur losses, 
in spite of having a combination of gains, and sometimes has meager gains 
through another’s wealth. (BPHS 26:143) 


This is a mutual reception wherein the lords are in a 2/12 relationship. Because of 
this dynamic, the exchange will typically produce unrest in the realms of friendship, 
group activity and financial matters. 


The native enjoys a handsome income, but income and expenses go hand in hand, 
such that he finds it difficult to save money, and is at constant risk of significant 
debts. He has foreign sources of income, but incurs expenses related to foreign ex- 
change, customs duties or transport that erode his profits. Personal expenses are 
generally for good causes, such as support of friends, elder siblings or children. 


His close personal relationships are inconsistent, such that some friends become 
very close, while others become enemies. Included among his friends are foreigners, 
spiritual seekers or bohemian types. He is lucky in fulfilling his sexual desires, and 
has a wide circle of lovers, some of whom are less than reputable. 


He may have an elder sibling who pursues spiritual liberation, or moksha. The 
sibling has little aptitude for financial management, and frequently incurs money 
problems, for which the native may assume responsibility. 


Famous people with this exchange 

Boris Becker, tennis player; Marc Bolan, musician; Fritjof Capra, physicist; Jimmy 
Carter, US President; Tony Curtis, actor; Salvador Dali, artist; Robertson Davies, 
writer; Michael Douglas, actor; Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, writer; Richard Harris, actor; 
Jesse Helms, politician; Jimi Hendrix, musician; Michael Hutchence, singer; Glenda 
Jackson, actress; Immanuel Kant, philosopher; Guglielmo Marconi, scientist; Guy 
de Maupassant, writer; Sal Mineo, actor; L'Wren Scott, fashion designer; Upton 
Sinclair, writer; Meryl Streep, actress; Dr. Ruth Westheimer, radio shrink; Sir George 
Wilkins, explorer. 


Case study 


Dr. Ruth Westheimer is an American sex therapist, media personality and author 
best known as Dr. Ruth. She ushered in the new age of franker talk about sex on 
radio and television, and has been endlessly parodied for both her enthusiasm and 
an accent only a psychologist could have. 


After her father was arrested by the Nazis in pre-WW2 Germany, she was sent away 


to take refuge in a Swiss orphanage. She lost contact with her family and presumed 
they'd died in Auschwitz. At age 17 she immigrated to Israel and subsequently 

lost her virginity. She fought for Israel’s independence movement and was badly 
wounded in the foot. 


She studied and taught psychology at the Sorbonne before immigrating to New 
York where she earned a master’s degree in sociology and completed post-doctoral 
work in human sexuality. 


After being discovered giving public lectures on sex, she was invited to join a late- 
night radio talk show. Its instant popularity eventually resulted in syndication, and 
in due course she gained a syndicated TV show. 


She's appeared in several TV shows, for children and adults, and in a number of 
commercials, often using her brand name to comic effect. She’s also written three 
books on sex. 


_M 


It 1 


Mars in 11th house Pisces is in mutual reception with Jupiter in 12th house Aries. 
The two share no mutual aspect. Mars is ordinary but forms multiple aspects — a 
sextile with the Sun, a square with Mercury, and trines with the Moon and Saturn. 
Jupiter is ordinary and forms only a sextile with Mercury. 


If Mars carries its degree into the 12th house, it forms only a sextile with Mercury. 
If Jupiter takes its degree into the 11th, it forms a sextile with Venus and a square 
with Mercury. 


Before and after exchange, both planets continue to make aspects to that strong 
Mercury in the 2nd house. This highlights Dr. Ruth's substantive education, her 
speaking skills, and her capacity to convert knowledge into income. 


In Dr. Ruth's life, 11th house themes emerged via her involvement in political action 
for an independent Israel, her sociological studies, and her embrace of one of the 
earliest form of “social media” — radio. 


12th house themes are present as well, in the loss of her family, seeking refuge in 
exile, immigration several times over, injury to the feet, studies in psychology, and 
in her dedication to shining a light on one of the most private experiences of human 
life - sex. 


This is a night birth in which Mars has gained significant advantage through minor 
dignities and receptions with Jupiter. In fact, Mars scores across the board in minor 
dignities, occupying its own triplicity, term, face and decan. Meanwhile, Jupiter is 
in its own triplicity, but in the face and decan of Mars. 

This easily confirms Mars as the control planet for this mutual reception. Its place 
ment in the 11th suggests her pioneering role in discussing sex in a public forum. 


Chapter 17 


Summary observations 


Since mutual reception by sign has generally been both under-recognized and 
under-utilized in contemporary astrological literature, it’s worthwhile to review 
some of what we've learned. Some of these observations are factual, while others 
seemingly fly in the face of what’s been held as conventional wisdom in astrology, 
at least insofar as mutual reception is concerned. 


1. Mutual reception by sign is a very common pattern in charts. 


Mutual reception appears in 43% of all charts, and yet until now virtually 
nothing has been available to assist in its interpretation. Bottom line: given 
the frequency of its occurrence, astrologers should become more familiar 
with its recognition and application. 


2. The two houses occupied by the planetary pair in any mutual reception by sign 
become the functional focus for interpretation. 


Although a planet may rule more than one sign, in a mutual reception its 
role is limited to the house it occupies, and the house occupied by the other 
planet whose sign it rules. These two houses are associated with different 
aspects of life - some pleasurable, some painful, some mixed. Bottom line: 
mutual reception by sign manifests as a joint outcome of two houses only. 


3. Mutual reception by sign works no matter whether or not there is a traditional 
aspect between the two planets in exchange. 


In these 66 case studies, only 27 of them (41%) had the exchange pair in 

a traditional aspect with normal orbs. That left 39 of them (59%) where 
the orbs were too wide for Ptolemaic aspects, ie, sextile, square, trine or 
opposition, or the exchange planets were in some other aspect pattern, ie, 
inconjunct or quincunx. Bottom line: mutual reception by sign works inde- 
pendently of aspect. 


4. An opposition aspect between exchange planets is no obstacle to mutual recep- 
tion by sign. 
Some traditional astrologers say opposing planets can’t offer mutual recep- 
tion because they're in detriment, ie, occupying a sign opposite their own, 
and are therefore too weak to do the job. However, in the 27 cases (see #3 
above) with traditional aspects and normal orbs, oppositions were just as 
well represented as other aspects: oppositions 6, trines 8, squares 7, sextiles 


6. In fact, the presence of oppositions is surprisingly robust, since there can 
be only six opposite house-lord exchanges in a chart anyway, while there 

are 12 potential combinations each for sign exchanges in a sextile, square or 
trine pattern. Bottom line: oppositional exchanges may even strengthen mu- 
tual reception, since each planet aspects its own sign. 


5. The major dignities of the exchange planets are essential in determining the 
qualitative nature of a mutual reception. 


The major dignities, aside from one’s own sign, are exaltation, retrogression 
and full moon. The major debilities are debilitation, combustion, eclipse, 
new moon. Traditional astrology also considers detriment a major debility 
(see #4 above), but in the application of mutual reception, this appears to 
carry no weight. Bottom line: major dignities are fundamental to the analy- 
sis of all astrological patterns. 


6. The major dignities are critical in determining the control planet of a mutual 
reception, and thereby its most dominant manifestation. 


Just as lack of beauty is no obstacle to marriage, the weakness (debilitation, 
combustion, etc) of a planet does not deny its participation in mutual recep- 
tion by sign. However, just as most relationships have a dominant partner, 
strength will grant one the role of control planet, while weakness will deny 
it. Bottom line: relative strength determines control of any relationship. 


7. The minor dignities are of occasional use in determining the control planet ina 
mutual reception by sign. 


The minor dignities are triplicity, term, face and decan. These provide the 
shades of grey in a black and white portrait. They are generally necessary 
only in cases where (a) the exchange planets exhibit no major dignities at 
all, or (b) the exchange planets are balanced in relative dignity/debility, and 
require minor dignities to tip the scale. Bottom line: minor dignities often 
corroborate or highlight themes identified by major dignities. 


In summary, we should note that mutual reception by sign is both a common and 
powerful pattern, whether seen in a natal, horary, mundane or electional chart. Its 
functional outcome is dependent upon the two houses thus connected. Its qualita- 
tive nature hinges on the strength of its participating planets, in particular the one 
that assumes control. 


As above, so below. 


Chapter 18 


Cautions and strictures 


When introduced to new techniques in astrology, there’s a natural tendency among 
students and practitioners alike to adopt whatever appeals to them, and incor- 
porate it into their own methodology. In the name of experimentation, this is ad- 
mirable and in some instances may result in a functional technique that straddles 
two or more established systems. In other applications, the outcome is less certain, 
and sometimes just won't work. 


This chapter is intended to discourage certain practices, out of genuine concern that 
they'll largely fail to produce the expected results. Such failures could erode the 
confidence of practitioners to make appropriate use of what would otherwise be a 
sound principle and a useful technique. Following is a short list of such cautions: 


1. Don’t include the outer planets in mutual reception. 


As discussed in Chapter 5, the traditional seven planets ruling the 12 signs of 
the zodiac exhibited a natural symmetry that was eroded as soon as “mod- 
ern” astrologers assigned Uranus, Neptune and Pluto rulership over Aquar- 
ius, Pisces and Pluto. Attempting to insert the outer planets into the scheme 
of mutual reception will not work. Eg, Venus in Pisces and Neptune in Libra 
is not a valid case of mutual reception. Under traditional rulership, Neptune 
doesn't rule Pisces; Jupiter does. 


Olivia Barclay, a modern proponent of horary practice, had this to say about 
that: [Referring to the outer planets] “... we do not assign to them sign ruler- 
ships, nor do we mutually exchange their places. | have never seen a chart in 
which their mutual reception is relevant to the interpretation.” [Horary As- 
trology Rediscovered, p.105] 


2. Don’t even consider mutual reception by debility. 


This is one of those uninformed ideas that spring up on astrological dis- 
cussion boards, hopefully never endorsed by any teacher. Recall the many 
examples of reception presented in Chapter 1. In every case, the planets in 
question found reception in a sign, or a portion thereof, where they enjoyed 
a dignity. In other words, Planet A would gain status through some sort of 
reciprocal relationship with Planet B which occupied one of Planet A’s digni- 
ties. One’s status is improved via dignity, not debility. 


To think that two planets can engage in mutual reception by debilitation is 
reversing the basic principle, and thus missing the point entirely. Eg, with 
Sun in Aries and Saturn in Libra, each one is in the other's debilitation sign. 
Likewise with Mercury in Virgo and Venus in Pisces. If we were to anthro- 
pomorphize this latter pair, they are happy where they are — Mercury in its 
own/exalted sign, Venus in its sign of exaltation. Why would they exchange 
places? That'd be like saying, we both enjoy status right now, but let's ex- 
change places to drag ourselves down. 


Note, this is not the same as when Moon is debilitated in Scorpio while Mars 
is debilitated in Cancer. If we personified those planets, their exchanging 


places would be like getting out of jail and going home. That is mutual re- 
ception, because each symbolically gains a dignity (domicile) through the re- 
ciprocal relationship. 


3. Don’t be seduced by the fantasy of a three-way in mutual reception. 


This is another fanciful idea encountered on internet discussion boards, ask- 
ing to be debunked. A hypothetical example of this would offer, say, Mercury 
in Libra, Venus in Capricorn and Saturn in Gemini. Since each of this triad oc- 
cupies one of the signs owned by another among the triad, the theory is that 
somehow they can all receive reciprocal dignities and gain strength thereby. 


Although it's a seductive concept, it breaks down in practical interpretation. 
By involving three planets, we thereby invoke as well the three houses 
occupied by them. People struggle enough as it is trying to find common 
themes between two houses; this scenario would demand common themes 
among three houses, or three different combinations of two houses. As a 
consequence, this notion of three-way reception robs the interpreter of an 
effective focus for the expected outcomes. 


4. Don’t expect identical results using the tropical zodiac. 


Since most readers of this book are western astrologers, it's natural that 
you'll want to apply the concept of mutual reception to natal charts in the 
tropical zodiac. | encourage you to try it out, but perhaps not to expect the 
same level of meaningful interpretation. 


To confirm this, | recalculated all 66 case studies using the tropical zodiac 
with whole-sign houses. Of the total, 34 (roughly 52%) retained a mutual 
reception by sign in the tropical chart. However, only nine of those 34 cases 
involved the same planets in mutual reception. Only 14% of the original 66 
case studies survived the transition from sidereal to tropical with the same 
planets in mutual reception. The other 25 subjects who still enjoyed mutual 
reception now did so with one or more different planets. 


In some cases, the mutual reception in the tropical zodiac still made a mean- 
ingful linkage between two houses (remember, this is the interpretive key to 
mutual reception) that made sense of what | knew about the subject's life. In 
other cases, it struck a dumb note. 


In all fairness, starting from scratch with my original database of famous 
subjects, mutual reception by tropical sign would have unearthed a different 
group of 66 case studies. Whether they’d exhibit an equally meaningful cor- 
respondence between houses is a subject for further study. 


5. Don’t expect identical results using unequal house systems. 


Again, you're free to apply mutual reception to natal charts with your 
favorite house system. However, whereas the whole-sign house system facil- 
itates a clear and unambiguous correspondence between a pair of planets in 
a pair of houses, this simplicity is usually lost to complexity as soon as we at- 
tempt the same analysis with unequal houses. 


Most astrologers know that the further removed a birth is by date from the 
equinoxes, or by latitude from the equator, the greater the distortion of 


unequal houses. Practitioners who routinely work with clients in the UK, 
Canada and the Nordic countries know that such distortion can render chart 
interpretation problematic, if not impossible in some locales and seasons. 


In such charts, a sign can become completely intercepted (enclosed) between 
the cusps of a house, while elsewhere in the chart, the cusps of two adjacent 
houses are in the same sign. And as happens all the time in anything other 
than a whole-sign house system, a house can contain a portion of one sign 
and a portion of another, sometimes an entire sign and a portion of two 
other signs. 


Because unequal house systems can create a chart wherein a planet may rule 
the cusp of one house but occupy an adjacent house, a mutual reception in 
some cases will invoke the influence of four different houses. Eg, Planet A 
occupies and owns two different houses, while Planet B occupies and owns 
yet another two houses. Faced with the multiple influences of four different 
houses, interpretation becomes very difficult. 
Out of curiosity, | recalculated all 66 case studies using the Regiomontanus 
house system favored by William Lilly and many modern practitioners of tra- 
ditionat astrology. Only three (roughly 5%) resulted in mutual reception be- 
tween occupants of the same houses as in my original case studies. In all the 
others, because the planets had shifted from one house to another via the 
unequal house scheme, the mutual reception now involved different houses. 
In a few cases, I could reframe an interpretation consistent with what | knew 
of the subject. In the majority of cases, the mutual reception no longer rang 
a belt. 
To recap, this chapter is intended only to advise the reader in how not to apply the 
principle of mutual reception. Items 1-2-3 are clearly meant to be restricted “no-fly 
zones.” Items 4 and 5 on the other hand are more in the spirit of cautions, at least in 
the sense of tempering expectations, for those who might choose to apply the same 
principles to their favorite chart system. 


APPENDICES, GLOSSARY, INDEX, BIBLIOGRAPHY 


Appendix 1 


Essential dignities 


Essential dignities is a phrase with two-fold meaning. In English, the word “dignity” 
means “composed and serious, worthy of honor and respect.” But in the Table of 
Essential Dignities offered by Ptolemy, Lilly and others, the term is broader and en- 
compasses both good and bad qualities of the planets. Those that are strong are in 
dignity, while those that are weak are in debility. 


Among traditional astrologers, the word debilitation implies a broader class of 
weakness, and includes two specific forms: 


* detriment, when a planet occupies a sign opposite from one it rules 
* fall, when a planet occupies the sign opposite to where it is exalted 


| prefer debility for the general class, and debilitation for the specific case (fall), so 
when | use those terms in this book, that's what | mean. 


Back to essential dignities... “Essential” in this context means something vital. A 
planet's vitality is seen in its position by sign (or portions thereof) that either be- 
long to it or another planet with which it has a relationship. In other words, essen- 
tial dignities are based on a planet's position by sign only — not by house, aspect or 
other measure. 


Accidental dignities are the positive and negative qualities judged via a planet's 
house, astronomical metrics, and relationships with other planets. 


Domicile, exaltation, debilitation, detriment 


Table 1 below presents the scheme of planetary dignities: rulership (domicile), exal- 
tation, debilitation (fall), detriment, and triplicity. 


Rulership correlates the signs with their lords - one sign each for the Sun and Moon, 
two signs for each of the true planets. Exaltation identifies the single sign in which 
each planet is deemed to be additionally honored; debilitation is in the sign oppo- 
site. Detriment identifies the signs — one for each of the luminaries, two for each 

of the true planets — in which the planet is opposite its ruled sign, thus “far from 
home” and therefore deemed to be somehow deficient. 


Table 1: Domicile, Exaltation, Debilitation, Detriment, Triplicity 


T 


Sign Ruler Exaltation | Debilitation | Detriment Triplicity 
Day - Night 
E Coe 


tO] ” 
C 


Pale 6 


cy 
| 


Gy | 


° 
‘4 


ey | Oy +O 


C 


°F 


od 
x 
x 


‘> 


a let) Cay Cs 


| tO] QQ) & 


ies 
~ 


= 
es} NY} QQ] tO 


2? 
e 
> 


HS 


ei comouer 


H a Q 


+X 


on 


3 


The symmetry of exaltations and debilitations 


In Chapter 5, we saw the symmetrical scheme of sign rulership, ie, when only the 


seven traditional planets govern the 12 signs of the zodiac. For those who appreci- 
ate such symmetry, following is another chart showing the seven planets along with 
the moon’s nodes. Where one planet is exalted, the planet opposite is debilitated, 


and vice versa. 


? / Exalted planets 2 a 


| are debilitated in § |}——__— 
opposite signs. 


lo © oly 


B A. J 
t @ 
All of this may seem familiar except for the nodal pair, which requires a brief expla- 
nation. Since the Moon is exalted in Taurus and debilitated in Scorpio, the presence 
of the nodes on that same axis says the reverse is true of them. But since the nodes 
constitute an oppositional pair, this means that when north node Rahu is exalted in 
Scorpio, then at the same time south node Ketu must be debilitated in Taurus, and 


vice versa. This is a little-known concept in Jyotish, or Vedic astrology. [Light on Life, 
deFouw & Svoboda, p.61] 


Because the nodes own no signs and therefore play no role in mutual receptions, 
this particular dignity isn’t discussed in the example charts throughout this text. 
However, the concept is often applied by jyotishi in the full delineation of a natal 
chart. 


Triplicity 
Fire signs are ruled by the Sun by day, Jupiter at night. Earth signs ruled by Venus 
by day, the Moon at night. Air signs ruled by Saturn by day, Mercury at night. Water 
signs ruled by Mars, day or night. 
Regarding the triplicity lordships, readers should note there are two systems, which 
are identical except with regard to water signs: 
* Ina scheme attributed to Dorotheus, Valens and Rhetorius, Venus ruled water 
signs by day, while Mars ruled water signs by night. 
* Ptolemy later modified the lordships of the water triplicity, making Mars the 
ruler of water signs for both day and night charts — and William Lilly con- 
curred. 


Within this text, I've used the triplicity lordships established by Ptolemy, corrobo- 
rated by Lilly, and thereafter followed by many, if not most, traditional astrologers. 


Devotees of Dorotheus, Valens and Rhetorius should feel free to follow their incli- 
nation, ie, to allow Venus to rule wet days. Personally, I'd rather devote wet nights 
to Venus, but that’s just me. 


For those readers unfamiliar with the concept of reception by triplicity, an example 
should make it clear. Imagine a chart with Sun in Aries, Moon in Libra, Mars in Scor- 
pio, Mercury in Aries, Jupiter in Virgo, Venus in Pisces, Saturn in Aquarius. 


Now see Table 1 above, first and last columns. For the hypothetical chart in the 
paragraph above: 


(1) For a day birth, the placement of each planet by triplicity would be: Sun in 
triplicity of Sun, Moon in triplicity of Saturn, Mars in triplicity of Mars, Mercury in 
triplicity of Sun, Jupiter in triplicity of Venus, Venus in triplicity of Mars, Saturn in 
triplicity of Saturn. 


(2) For a night birth, the placement of each planet by triplicity would be: Sun in 
triplicity of Jupiter, Moon in triplicity of Mercury, Mars in triplicity of Mars, Mercury 
in triplicity of Jupiter, Jupiter in triplicity of Moon, Venus in triplicity of Mars, Sat- 
urn in triplicity of Mercury. 


Term 


In Table 2 below, each sign is divided into five unequal terms, or bounds. In the first 
column, the planet indicated rules that portion of the sign (term 1) up to and in- 
cluding the degree indicated. In the second column, the planet indicated rules that 
portion of the sign from the previous cutoff point up to and including the next de- 
gree indicated, etc. 


So in the case of Aries, Jupiter rules the first term from OOAROO-O6AROO. Venus rules 
the second term 06AR01-14ARO0. Mercury rules the third term 14AR01-21ARO0. 
Mars rules the fourth term 21AR01-26ARO0. Saturn rules the fifth term 
26AR01-30ARO0, or 29AR59'59". 


The table below is attributed to Ptolemy, subsequently adopted by Lilly, and there- 
after used by most traditional astrologers. Although some may quibble that its use 
is intended more for horary than natal applications, it still serves as a familiar sys- 
tem for assigning what is admittedly a minor dignity. (Recall the generally-agreed 
weighting of essential dignities: domicile 5, exaltation 4, triplicity 3, term 2, face/ 
decan 1.) 


Table 2: Terms (bounds) 


fe 4 06 2 a6 $21 
o) ? 08 15 220 
I ? 07 404 31 
| @ S06 | 213 % 20 
ay, bos | 13 2 19 
8 ® 07 ae 4. 18 
Bu b 06 41 4 19 
Ny 06 2414 Oi 


bah 
cH 40) 29) OO. 
S 
CO 
a ®) 
. 
~x 
Oo 


06 12 ® 20 


1 O6e WP 242 ? 20 


Readers should note that there is also an alternative scheme of terms used in Hel- 

lenistic astrology. The overall structure is more or less the same, with the five true 
planets sharing a portion of each sign, sometimes in a slightly different order than 
presented below, sometimes with slightly different degree spans. 


As with other variables, readers subscribing to Hellenistic astrology should feel free 
to substitute their own table for the one above, with confidence that any differ- 
ences in evaluation by term will be only one factor among several in evaluating any 
planet's dignity. 


Face & decan 


Table 3 below is divided into two sections so as to accommodate two distinct tradi- 
tions regarding the three-fold division of signs. Depending on what book you read, 
these divisions may be referred to as faces or decans, sometimes interchangeably 
without thought of distinction. In this text, I've adopted a certain nomenclature, 
with corresponding definitions, in an attempt to keep these two systems distinct. 


The scheme of faces originated with Babylonian astrology. Each sign is divided into 
three equal portions. The first 10 degrees of Aries is ruled by Mars, and thereafter 
the planets are each assigned a successive 10-degree portion. The order of the 


planetary lords (sometimes referred to as the “Chaldean order”) is dictated by their 
descending rate of speed. The section of Table 3 highlighted in grey serves to neatly 
isolate and make obvious this order. 


Table 3: Faces & Decans 


Sign Faces Decanates 
Face 1 Face2 | Face3 Decani1 Decan 2 Decan 3 
1 
S 1001 © 20-|'-2 soc ic. |) 90; > 2% ep 
| 
® 10 » 20 h 30 OG % 20 P20 
10 3 20 | © 30 ? 10 20 36 


4, , 
My; GC 10 1) © 20 | . com o to |) 4 30, |) Se 
x ® 10 i 20. || 201 2 16: || 6 30 || O36 
VS 410 | 3 20 . © 20 Pio. || 20 ? 30 
tt 2 10 | % 20 | X30 | Pio | &20 | & 30 
1 bio | 220 | d30 | 3410 | D2] F 30 


Coexistent with the scheme of faces as described above, we also have decans (or 
decanates). These are generally assumed to be of Egyptian origin, although Jyotish 
uses exactly the same logic to determine the drekkana, one of the many “harmonic” 
or “divisional” charts unique to Jyotish. 


Again, these are 10-degree portions of each sign, the first part ruled by the lord of 
the sign itself, the two successive thirds of that sign ruled by the lords of the signs 
of the same element that follow in zodiacal order. For example, the three decans of 
Leo are ruled by the Sun, Jupiter and Mars, because they are, respectively, the lord 
of the sign itself, the lord of the next fire sign Sagittarius, and the lord of the fol- 
lowing fire sign Aries. And so on. 


As noted above, the terms “face” and “decan” are used so interchangeably in the 
astrological literature that I'm obliged here to drive a stake into the sand and de- 


clare them distinct. 
In this text, face refers to the Chaldean divisions, decan to the Egyptian or Indian. 


Rather than debate which of these two systems should apply, I've used them both in 
the chart analyses throughout this text, referring to them with distinction, as face 
and decan as defined above. 


Example: night birth 


To illustrate how to apply these various tables, let’s work through an example chart, 
that of astrologer Dane Rudhyar, who was born 23rd March 1895 at 1 AM, Paris, 
France. Note this is a night birth. 


TR Il 


Q) Lo 
: bp 47° dd 19 a 
| Rents 71" 06 
Ty ASC 2 
7 ie as 
2 09 
p20 49 
a e2 I 


VOR 


If we refer to Table 1, we note the following primary dignities by sign: Saturn is de- 
bilitated; all other planets are ordinary. 


We'll ignore the moon’s nodes in this exercise for two reasons: (1) western astrology 
typically doesn’t evaluate nodal dignities, and (2) since the nodes own no signs, 
they can’t be involved in any exchange, so have no immediate role to play, except to 
influence other planets. 


In Table 1, we also note the rulers by triplicity. Since this is a night birth, we follow 
the right-hand side of the last column. Only Venus occupies a fire sign, so it is in 
the triplicity of Jupiter. Only Mars is in an earth sign, so it is in the triplicity of the 
Moon. The Moon, Mercury, Jupiter and Saturn all occupy air signs, so they are in the 
triplicity of Mercury. Only the Sun is in a water sign, so it is in a triplicity of Mars. 


Next we refer to Table 2, where we note the position of each planet by range of 
degrees within signs to identify its term. Venus at O6AR24 is in the term of Venus. 
Mars at 19TA44 is in the term of Mercury. Jupiter at OSGE23 is in the term of Mer- 
cury. Saturn at 13L147 is in the term of Venus. The Moon at 02AQ22 is in the term of 


Saturn. Mercury at 12AQ01 is in the term of Jupiter. The Sun at O9PI45 is in the term 
of Jupiter. 


Next we refer to Table 3, where we note the position of each planet by 10-degree 
ranges within signs — once for the Chaldean faces, and again for the Egyptian de- 
cans. Venus at O6AR24 is in the face and decan of Mars. Mars at 19TA44 is in the face 
of the Moon, the decan of Mercury. Jupiter at OSGE23 is in the face of Jupiter, the 
decan of Mercury. Saturn at 13L147 is in the face and decan of Saturn. The Moon at 
02AQ2z2 is in the face of Venus, the decan of Saturn. Mercury at 12AQ01 is in the 
face and decan of Mercury. The Sun at O9PI45 is in the face of Saturn, the decan of 
Jupiter. 


Example: day birth 


To illustrate this same process with a day birth, let's simply add 12 hours to Rudh- 
yar's birth time and recalculate his birth chart for 1 PM on 23rd March 1895. 


B alee a 3¥ 


: ae ae 
20 ée 12 
29° OS” 
Hi Soe \ i 
W 2 os VB. 


— Asc a 


ity saat @ 


Note that all planets except for the Moon change less than a degree in this span of 
time. Since no planets have changed sign, the primary dignities we observed earlier 
remain unchanged: Saturn is exalted, all other planets are ordinary. 


However, since this is now a day birth, we return to Table 1 and note the rulers of 
the triplicities down the left-hand side of the last column. Venus occupies a fire 
sign, the triplicity of the Sun. Mars is in an earth sign, the triplicity of Venus. The 
Moon, Mercury, Jupiter and Saturn all occupy air signs, the triplicity of Saturn. The 
Sun is in a water sign, the triplicity of Mars, which has the distinction of ruling water 
signs by day or night. 

Next we refer to Table 2 to see if any planets have changed terms. The slow-moving 
planets will have barely budged in 12 hours, and upon quick inspection we can ver- 
ify that Mars, Jupiter and Saturn are still in the same terms as noted earlier. Venus 


at 07AR01 is still in the term of Venus. Mercury at 12AQ29 remains in the term of 
Jupiter. The Sun at 10P115 is still in the term of Jupiter. Only the Moon, which has 
moved six degrees in 12 hours, is now at 08AQ17 in the term of Mercury. 


Next we refer to Table 3 to see if any planets have changed faces, or decans. Note 
here that the transition points are at the 10-, 20-, and 30- degree marks, so only 
planets near those points could have changed faces/decans in that 12 hours. A quick 
comparison of the day/night charts reveals only two planets on the cusp of those 
divisions. Mars at 20TAO2 has crossed the line, and is now in the face and decan of 
Saturn. Meanwhile, the Sun at 10PI15 has also crossed the line, and is now in the face 
of Jupiter, the decan of the Moon. 


Appendix 2 


The mathematics of mutual reception 


General discussion 


Mutual reception is not an equal-opportunity game. The true planets (Mercury, 
Venus, Mars, Jupiter and Saturn) have the greatest opportunity for exchange be- 
cause they each own two signs. The Sun and Moon have the least opportunity be- 
cause they own only one sign apiece. 


Because Mercury and Venus are inferior planets, ie, lying within the orbit of the 
Earth, their apparent (from a geocentric point of view) angular separation from the 
Sun and from each other is restricted. This reduces their opportunities for mutual 
reception, at least insofar as some of their signs are too far apart to accommodate 
the planets’ limited range of movement. 


For instance, there can be no exchange between the lords of Taurus and Virgo 
because planets in those two signs must be at the very least 91 degrees apart (eg, 
29TA30 and OOVI30) while astronomical reality dictates that Mercury and Venus can 
never be more than 76 degrees apart. And so on for their other signs, or with the 
Sun and its sign. 


Mutual reception allows for the theoretical exchange of 12 house lords in 66 com- 
binations. In practice, however, only 57 are possible for any given ascendant. Of the 
nine excluded, examination of any chart will reveal five by virtue of dual rulership, 
and four due to astronomical limitation: 


* Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus and Saturn each own two houses in every chart. 
By definition, none can exchange places with itself. For an Aries ascendant, 
there’s no exchange between the 1st and 8th houses because Mars rules both. 
Likewise, the 3rd/6th are both ruled by Mercury, the Sth/12th by Jupiter, the 
2nd/7th by Venus, and the 10th/11th by Saturn. Similar logic governs every 
other ascendant. Five combinations of mutual reception are thus excluded - 
one for each dual house lord. 


* Because the orbits of Mercury and Venus lie within that of the Earth’s, their 
apparent angular separations from the Sun cannot exceed 28 and 48 degrees, 
respectively. Therefore, there can be no exchange between the lords of Leo 
and Gemini (Sun and Mercury), or Leo and Taurus (Sun and Venus). Thus, two 
combinations are excluded. 


* By the same token, Mercury and Venus can’t be separated by more than (28 + 
48 =) 76 degrees. Therefore, there’s no exchange between the lords of Taurus 
and Virgo (Venus and Mercury), or Gemini and Libra (Mercury and Venus). 
Thus, another two combinations are excluded. 


Theoretical odds of forming a mutual reception 


Although | don’t have the means to perform a scientific analysis of the astronomical 
potential for mutual reception between any pair of planets, logic alone will get us 
pretty close to whatever the reality is. Take for example, mutual receptions with the 
Sun. 


If the Sun is in Leo, there is no mutual reception. 


The odds of the Sun being in Cancer are one in 12, or 8.33%. The odds of the Moon 
being in Leo are also one in 12, or 8.33%. The odds of finding (at the same time) the 
Sun in Cancer and the Moon in Leo are therefore one in 144, or 0.69%. 


If the Sun is in Aries, the same logic as above dictates that the odds for mutual re- 
ception with Mars in Leo are also 0.69%. But since Mars owns two signs, equal odds 
apply for an exchange between the Sun and Mars in Scorpio and Leo, respectively. 
Therefore, for a Sun/Mars exchange, the chances that they will form a mutual re- 
ception are actually 1.39%. 


(Two chances at 0.69% each = 1.39% for both, with values rounded to two decimal 
places.) 


If the Sun is in Sagittarius or Pisces, the same logic says the chances for an exchange 
with Jupiter are also 1.39%. Ditto for the Sun in Capricorn or Aquarius, in exchange 
with Saturn. 


With the inferior planets, it’s a little more complicated, but no less logical. If the 
Sun’s in Gemini, we won’t find Mercury in Leo, because it can’t be more than 28 
degrees from the Sun. So the odds for that exchange are zero. If the Sun’s in Taurus, 
we won't find Venus in Leo, because it can’t be more than 48 degrees from the Sun. 
So the odds for that exchange are also zero. 


But if the Sun's in Virgo, chances are good to find Mercury in Leo because it’s the ad- 
jacent sign. In fact, Mercury could only be in Leo, Virgo or Libra, so its odds of being 
in position to exchange are one in three. Multiply that by the odds of Sun being in 
Virgo (one in 12) and you get the probability of Sun and Mercury in exchange across 
Virgo and Leo being 2.78%. 


Similarly, if the Sun’s in Libra, chances are fair to find Venus in Leo. Recall that 
Venus can be up to 48 degrees away from the Sun. Depending on the Sun's position 
within Libra, this allows Venus to range anywhere between mid-Leo to mid-Sagit- 
tarius. So the chances are (at best) one in five that Venus would be in Leo. Multiply 
that by the odds of the Sun in Libra and you get the probability of Sun and Venus in 
exchange across Libra and Leo being 1.67%. 


Following the same logic as described in the above three paragraphs, we can also 
calculate the potential for mutual receptions between Mercury and Venus. For the 
outer planets (Mars, Jupiter, Saturn), their unfettered freedom of movement allows 
a much simpler exercise in logic. The following table summarizes the odds for any 
given exchange. 


Table 4: Logical odds of planets in sign exchange 


Planet Odds of exchange with another planet 
Sun 9.3% 
Moon 7.6% 
Mercury 13,970 
Venus 13.5% 
Mars 13.9% 
Jupiter 13.9% 
Saturn 13.9% 
All planets 42.8% 


After taking care to eliminate any instances of double-counting, this “logical” 
method renders a probability that approximately 43% of all charts will exhibit at 
least one mutual reception. 


In fact, this is also borne out by my analysis of actual chart data as compiled by 
AstroDataBank. 


Observed odds of forming a mutual reception 


My original analysis for this research was made possible with the use of Lois Rod- 
den’s AstroDatabank 3.0 which on its release contained 23,107 records of personal 
and mundane data. 


By filtering the original database to retain only charts with Rodden Rating “AA” (ac- 
curate data as recorded by family or state) or “A” (accurate data as quoted by the 
person, kin, friend or associate), this extracted 7406 famous people, 2886 private 
citizens, and 4717 anonymous individuals, for a working population of 15,009 
more-or-less-accurate charts. 


A second filtering process applied to these 15,009 charts identified 6403 people 
with one or more mutual receptions in their charts. On the surface, this implied 
roughly 43% of the general population had at least one pair of planets in sign 
exchange. 


An identical filtering process applied only to the 7406 “famous” people identified 
3170 of them with mutual receptions. As with the general population, 43% of the 
famous had at least one pair of planets in sign exchange. 


When I examined the individual data more closely, however, | found that 40% of the 
famous people had only one mutual reception, while 243 (3%) of the 7406 famous 
people had two or more mutual receptions. 


Taking this one last step, seeking charts with three mutual receptions, | found only 
two people (0.03%) out of the 7406 famous subjects. In other words, this is rare, 
generally occurring only three times out of 10,000. 


Table 5: Observed occurrence of sign exchange 


L General population Famous people 

| Sample size 15,009 ‘| (7,406 
Number with one or more 6,403 3,170 
exchanges | 
Percent with one or more | 42.7% 42.8% | 
exchanges 
Number with two or more n/a | 243 
exchanges 
Percent with two or more n/a 3.3% 
exchanges | 
Number with three exchanges n/a | 2 
Percent with three exchanges | n/a 0.03% | 


Because individual data inspection is time-consuming, | didn't duplicate this 
detailed analysis for the general population (hence the n/a in the middle column 
above), but assumed more or less equivalent results. 


Bottom line, as astrologers we should expect to see many clients with a mutual re- 
ception, since four out of 10 charts will have at least one. On the other hand, a chart 
with two or more such exchanges is relatively rare, since little more than 3% of the 
population fall in this category. 


Conclusion 


No matter whether we think this through logically with due respect for the astro- 
nomical parameters, or simply number-crunch the data, we arrive at the same fig- 
ure: 43% of the population has a mutual reception in the birth chart. 


These odds are independent of zodiac — tropical or sidereal —- because we inevitably 
return to the same dynamic of seven planets distributed across 12 signs. Its statis- 
tical occurrence is likewise independent of house system, since mutual reception is 
based upon sign exchange. 


Depending on choice of zodiac and/or house system, however, the very planets, 
signs and houses involved in these mutual receptions will inevitably differ from one 
system to another. In this text, I’ve made my case for the sidereal zodiac and whole- 
sign houses. For those of a different persuasion, | invite you to calculate your own 
charts and apply the interpretations accordingly. 


Per ardua ad astra. 


Appendix 3 


Parivartana Yoga 


Definition 
Parivartana Yoga is said to be among the most powerful of planetary combinations, 
having the capacity to link the effects of two astrological houses in a chart. 


The word yoga itself means “yoke, or union”. In Jyotish, a yoga is formed, with only 
a few single-planet exceptions, when two or more planets are joined in a specific 
configuration or relationship. 


Sometimes a yoga is a straightforward mingling of natures based upon the char- 
acter of the planets, such as when the Moon (perceptions, persona) combines with 
Mars (courage, drive, vigor) to form a Chandramangala Yoga that marks a go-getter, 
a fighter, an entrepreneur. 


In other yogas, two planets will function as house lords, and their conjoined mean- 
ing merges those of the two houses represented, for good or ill as the houses dic- 
tate. For a Virgo ascendant, we could have Venus as lord of the 9th (good fortune) 
combine with Mercury lord of the 10th (karma, social status) to form one of the so- 
called Raja Yogas, denoting success and power in government or public enterprise. 


The word parivartana has many meanings. To include just a pertinent few from the 
Monier-Williams’ Sanskrit-English Dictionary, for example, we have: 


* turning or whirling around 

* rolling about, moving to and fro 

* inverting, putting in a reverse order 
* barter, exchange, return 


In essence, parivartana connotes mobility and movement, but only in the sense 
that the planets are symbolically mobile. A Parivartana Yoga has nothing to do with 
travel per se, but by implication, a Parivartana Yoga is dynamic, because the two 
planets are linked in a manner that allows transposition by sign and, therefore, by 
house. 


The exchange of house lords invokes the cooperation of their respective houses, But 
as we all know, the nature of houses varies significantly. Broadly speaking, we can 
thus divide houses into two distinct groups: 


* Positive houses include the kendras or angular houses (1-4-7-10), the trikonas 
or trinal houses (5-9) and the so-called neutral houses (2-11). 


* Negative houses include the dusthanas (3-6-8-12). 


Of the latter group, we can further distinguish between what are called “serious” 
dusthanas, ie, the trikasthanas (6-8-12), and the “mild” dusthana of the 3rd house. 
The trik houses are problematic under most circumstances, and are considered un- 
desirable locations for any planet. Somewhat better is the 3rd house, which is an 
upachaya bhava (house) representing difficulties at the outset, but also promising 
improvement over time proportionate to effort. 


The various exchanges of house lords can thus be grouped into three distinct cate- 


gories of yoga, each with a more specific designation: 


Maha Parivartana Yoga 


Maha means “dignified, exalted, glorious, majestic, nobly born.” A Maha Parivar- 
tana Yoga therefore implies a touch of divine fortune. 


The yoga involves the mutual exchange of any two positive house lords, ie, the 
lords of houses 1-2-4-5-7-9-10-11. There are 28 such possible combinations. Gen- 
erally speaking, these yogas confer positive results for both participant houses, the 
degree of which is subject to other considerations to be discussed later. The sage 
Mantreswara said of this yoga: 


The native born with a Maha Yoga in his birth chart will be endowed 
with the blessings of the Goddess Shri, will have enormous wealth, will 
have garments of variegated colors, wear gold ornaments, will be richly 
rewarded by the sovereign with gifts and administrative authority, and 
possess vehicles, wealth and children. (Phala Deepika 6:34) 


In this quotation, we see another key element of classical exegesis, that of 
arthavada, or eulogy. As is the practice of many classical authors, Mantreswara 
provides a laudatory description of the multiple benefits accruing to the fortunate 
possessor of a Maha Parivartana Yoga. Should we take him literally and expect that 
every client with this yoga will enjoy good fortune, wealth, governmental favor and 
beautiful children? 


No, we shouldn’t be misled into thinking this is a literal interpretation. 
Mantreswara merely intends to impress upon us that this is a good yoga and that, 
given the appropriate support, it will generate benefits of some kind or other in the 
life of the individual. 


Khala Parivartana Yoga 


Khala means “abusive, contentious, mischievous, quarrelsome, villainous, wicked.” 
A Khala Parivartana Yoga therefore implies something of a troublemaker. 


The yoga involves the mutual exchange of the 3rd house lord with any one of the 
positive house lords, ie, houses 1-2-4-5-7-9-10-11. There are eight such possible 
combinations. Generally speaking, these yogas confer mixed results for the par- 
ticipant houses, subject to time, effort and the condition of the house lords them- 
selves. Here again, Mantreswara comments: 


The native born with a Khala Yoga in his birth chart is sometimes 
haughty and at times very gentle and polite. His life is dotted with both 
success and failures. At times he has God’s plenty and at another he is 
in distress, poverty, misery and the like. (Phala Deepika 6:33) 


Dainya Parivartana Yoga 


Dainya means “affliction, depression, misery, wretchedness.” A Dainya Parivartana 
Yoga therefore implies difficulties and misfortunes. 


The yoga involves the mutual exchange of any trik lords, ie, the lords of houses 
6-8-12, among themselves and with any lord of the remaining houses, ie, 


1-2-3-4-5-7-9-10-11. There are 30 such possible combinations. Generally speaking, 
these yogas confer negative results for the participant houses, the degree of which 
is also subject to other considerations. Again, in Mantreswara’s words: 


The native born with a Dainya Yoga in his birth chart is a fool, speaks 
ill of others, always acting sinfully, tormented by his enemies, always 
hurts the feelings of others by his speech and is of unstable mind. 
Whatever he ventures, it is full of hurdles. (Phala Deepika 6:33) 


Again, in a passage as damning as this, we must remember this is 
an example of arthavada, where eulogy is balanced by 
condemnation. Will every client with a Dainya Yoga be a foul- 
mouthed neurotic loser tormented by foes and circumstances 
alike? No, but he will experience difficulties subject, and 
proportionate, to other fixed karmas indicated in his chart. 


Appendix 4 


Avasthas 


Introduction 


For readers who may be interested in exploring some of the concepts of Jyotish, this 
appendix provides the equivalent body of dignities as applied within that system. 


The Sanskrit term avastha means “state” or “condition”. In the Vedanta tradition, 
the word avastha is used to describe the three most common states of conscious- 
ness: waking (jagrat), dreaming (svapna), and sleep (sushupti). 


In Jyotish, several avastha systems qualify the condition of planets. The well-known 
Baladi Avastha system is based on a planet’s longitude within one of five ranges in 
each sign. In odd signs, these reflect “states” of infancy (0-6 degrees), adolescence 
(6-12 degrees), youth (12-18 degrees), old age (18-24 degrees), and death (24-30 
degrees). In even signs, the order is reversed. 


For most purposes, however, jyotishi use a more general set of avasthas based ona 
planet's occupation by sign, and its astronomical condition irrespective of sign. The 
list below identifies these dozen avasthas: 


Table 6: Names and meanings of the avasthas in Jyotish 


Avastha Descriptive meaning Technical meaning 
Pradipta Exulting, blazing Exaltation sign 

Sukhita Happy Moolatrikona sign 
Svastha Own Own sign 

Mudhita Delighted Sign of a friend 

Shanta Peaceful Sign of a natural benefic 
Shakta Powerful, capa ble Retrograde 

Khala Base, low Sign of a natural malefic 
Vikala Imperfect, marred Sign of an enemy 
Nipidita Tortured, defeated Planetary war 

Atibhita Very frightened Debilitated 

Sudhuhkita | Very distressed Combust 

Kopa Infirm, eclipsed ; =) Eclipsed = 


In practice, we can expedite our planetary analysis by restricting the number 
of avasthas under consideration. By culling this list, I’m not suggesting certain 
avasthas are meaningless, only that some are less vital to the analysis, eg, planets 


in moolatrikona (already covered as own sign), planets in signs of benefics/malefics, 
and planets in signs of friends/enemies. 


By the same token, we can also add to the list. For example, an important qualita- 
tive measure is dig bala — a planet’s directional strength. After exclusions and addi- 
tions, our core list of avasthas (four positive, four negative) now looks like this: 


1 


Strong planet | Weak planet Moon phase | 

+ Own sign - Debilitation + strong within | 

+ Exaltation - Combust one sign of full 

+ Retrograde - Planetary war : Weak withinone 
sign of new 

+ Dig bala - Eclipse 


Terms & definitions 


Svastha (swa): A planet's own sign is that which it is deemed to rule, and in which it 
feels comfortable, exerting its natural attributes with strength. See Table 7 below. 


Moolatrikona: For planets owning two signs, the moolatrikona sign is considered to 
be the one in which the planet shows its best colors. General rule: a planet's moola- 
trikona sign is the male (air or fire) sign of its male/female pair. So for Mars, Jupiter, 
Venus and Saturn, their moolatrikona signs are respectively Aries, Sagittarius, Libra 
and Aquarius. The only exception is Mercury, whose moolatrikona sign is Virgo. See 
Table 7 below. 


Exaltation: Each planet has a sign in the zodiac (which it does not own) where that 
planet is “treated like a god”, or exalted. It is always opposite its sign of debilita- 
tion. See Table 7 below. 


Debilitation: Each planet has a sign in the zodiac (which it does not own) where that 
planet is “treated like a dog”, or debilitated. It is always opposite its sign of exalta- 
tion. See Table 7 below. 


Friend: The basic rule says, two planets are friendly when the signs they own are 
trine to each other. Eg, the Sun, Mars and Jupiter are friends because their fire signs 
Leo, Aries and Sagittarius are all in a trinal (1-5-9) relationship. Similarly for the 
Moon, Mars and Jupiter whose water signs are trinal. And again for Mercury, Venus 
and Saturn, no matter whether you consider their earth signs or air signs. For some 
variations, see Table 8 below. 


Enemy: Certain planets (for reasons too complex to easily explain) are deemed in- 
imical to each other's nature. See Table 8 below. 


Combustion: Combustion occurs when a planet is in such close proximity to the 
Sun that it becomes invisible, ie, eclipsed by the corona of the Sun. Orbs (zones) of 
effective combustion vary by planet. See Table 9 below. 


Planetary war: Graha yuddha occurs when two of the five natural planets are found 
within one degree of longitude of each other. By definition, the Sun and Moon are 
never involved in planetary war, nor are the Moon's north and south nodes, Rahu 


and Ketu. 


Retrograde: When planets in their orbits are closer to the Earth, they may tempo- 
rarily appear to move backwards against the background of the fixed stars and the 
zodiac. Because of their relative proximity, they also appear brighter during their 
period of retrogression and are therefore considered to exert greater effects as per 
their nature. 


Eclipse: Eclipses occur when the Sun, Moon and Earth are aligned. Solar eclipses 
occur when the Moon comes between the Earth and the Sun, temporarily blocking 
our view of the Sun. Lunar eclipses occur when the Earth comes between the Sun 
and the Moon, and its shadow covers the Moon. 


Dig bala: Technically, this is not an avastha as per classic definition, but a planet en- 
joys directional strength when: Mercury and/or Jupiter is in the 1st house, the Moon 
and/or Venus in the 4th, Saturn in the 7th, the Sun and/or Mars in the 10th. Under 
the same principle, Mars’ proxy Ketu gains dig bala in the 10th, while Saturn's sur- 
rogate Rahu gains dig bala in the 7th. 


Table 7: Signs of ownership, exaltation & debilitation in Jyotish 


Planet Own sign Mooltrikona | Exaltation Debilitation 
Sun Leo Leo Aries Libra 
Moon Cancer Cancer Taurus Scorpio 
Mars Aries, Scorpio Aries Capricorn Cancer 
Mercury | Gemini, Virgo Virgo Virgo | Pisces 
Jupiter Sagittarius, Pisces | Sagittarius Cancer Capricorn 
Venus Taurus, Libra Libra Pisces Virgo 
Saturn Capricorn, Aquarius Libra Aries 
Aquarius 
Rahu Pair nil Scorpio Taurus 
Ketu nil nil Scorpio Taurus 


Table 8: Friends, enemies & neutrals in Jyotish 


Jupiter 


Sun, Moon, Mars 


Planet Friends Neutrals Enemies 
Sun Moon, Mars, Mercury Venus, Saturn 
Jupiter 
Moon Sun, Mercury Mars, Jupiter, Venus, seamless 
Saturn 
Mars Sun, Moon, Jupiter | Venus, Saturn Mercury 
Mercury | Venus, Saturn Sun, Mars, Jupiter Moon 


Saturn 


Mercury, Venus 


Venus Mercury, Saturn Mars, Jupiter Sun, Moon 

Saturn Mercury, Venus Jupiter Sun, Moon, 
Mars 

Rahu eo lilas ae Willie leer 

Ketu me al eee cotlill at 


Table 9: Effective orbs of combustion in Jyotish 


Planet When in direct motion When retrograde 
Mercury 14° 12 
Venus LO 8° 
Mars sO i7: 
Jupiter ie oll 
Saturn ibe 13 


Glossary 


Angular houses: 1st, 4th, 7th and 10th. 


Applying aspect: When a faster-moving planet approaches the exact degree of a 
slower-moving planet. 


Artha (material welfare): The primary goal of life. Houses governing security needs 
are the 2nd house of diet and wealth, the 6th of health and employment, the 10th 
of career. 


Benefics: Planets of a beneficial nature, typically Jupiter and Venus, but also a 
strong Moon, or Mercury influenced by benefics. 


Besieged: A planet bound on either side by troublesome (malefic) planets, thus lim- 
iting its scope. 


Cadent houses: 3rd, 6th, 9th and 12th. 
Cazimi: A planet within 17 minutes of arc from the Sun. 


Chaldean order: Saturn, Jupiter, Mars, Sun, Venus, Mercury, Moon (in order of plan- 
etary motion, from slow to fast). 


Combust: Generally, a planet within 8 degrees of the Sun. 


Debility: A weakness. Essential debilities are weaknesses arising from sign position, 
eg, debilitation (fall), detriment. Accidental debilities arise from other chart factors, 
eg, combustion, aspects by malefics, etc. 


Debilitation: The sign (opposite its exaltation) wherein a planet loses dignity. 
Decanate: A 10-degree division of a sign. 


Detriment: Weakness resulting from a planet occupying a sign opposite that which 
it rules. 


Dharma (righteousness): The tertiary goal of life. Houses ruling the cultivation of 
virtue are the 1st house of the Self, the 5th of personal study, the 9th of devotion to 
a guru and his teachings. 


Dignity: A strength. Essential dignities are strengths arising from sign position, eg, 
domicile, exaltation. Accidental dignities arise from other chart factors, eg, angular- 
ity, aspects by benefics, etc. 


Dispositor: A planet that rules the sign (or portion thereof) occupied by another 
planet. 


Domicile: The sign naturally ruled by a planet. 
Exaltation: The sign (other than its own) wherein a planet gains dignity. 
Face: A 10-degree division of a sign. 


Fall: Weakness resulting from a planet occupying a sign opposite that where it is 
exalted. 


Flanked: A planet bound on either side by helpful (benefic) planets providing sup- 
port, or inimical (malefic) planets causing trouble. 


Inconjunct: Planets in semi-sextile or quincunx relationship, not considered to be in 
traditional aspect. 

Kama (pleasure): The secondary goal of life. Houses ruling the pursuit of pleasure 
are the 3rd house of desire, the 7th of personal intimacy, the 11th of social interac- 
tion. 


Malefics: Planets of a troublesome nature, ie, Saturn and Mars and the nodes, but 
also the Sun to a lesser degree, a weak Moon, and Mercury influenced by malefics. 


Moksha (liberation): The ultimate goal of life. Houses ruling transcendence are the 
4th house of contentment, the 8th of transformation, the 12th of surrender. 


Moon’s nodes: Two diametrically-opposed points where the Moon’s orbit crosses 
the ecliptic. The north node (Rahu) is where the Moon crosses from south to north, 
south node (Ketu) where it crosses from north to south. 


Mutual reception: Planets who occupy each other’s sign (or portion thereof), thus 
allowing them to figuratively exchange places for the dignity of both. 


Orb: A “halo” of influence within which a planet is deemed to have an influence. 
Partile: An exact aspect (ie, within one degree). 
Platick: An inexact aspect (ie, anywhere within the sign). 


Peregrine: A planet with no essential dignity, and in the absence of a mutual recep- 
tion that would allow it access to a place of dignity. 


Perfection: When two planets come to a perfect aspect, thus symbolizing the culmi- 
nation or fruition of a matter. 


Querent: The person who asks questions. 


Rajasik: The emotional or mental disposition for activity, desire, excitement, insta- 
bility and possessiveness. 


Reception: A planet disposited by another, in any one of its essential dignities. This 
may be by sign, exaltation, triplicity, term/bound, or face/decan. 


Sattvik: The emotional or mental disposition for contentment, equilibrium, enlight- 
enment, lucidity and transcendence. 


Separating aspect: When a faster-moving planet passes the exact degree of a 
slower-moving planet. 


Significator: The symbol of a person, thing or circumstance. 
Succedent houses: 2nd, Sth, 8th and 11th. 


Tamasik: The emotional or mental disposition for confusion, delusion, fear, inertia, 
and sloth. 


Terms: The five-fold division of a chart. 


Index of Case Studies 


All data can be confirmed by accessing the AstroDataBank website at http://www.as- 
tro.com/astro-databank/Main_Page 


. 04 April 1928, 14h10 CST, Saint Louis, Missouri. 
. 03 June 1906, 11h00 CST, Saint Louis, Missouri. 
. 30 March 1937, 17h30 EST, Richmond, Virginia. 
. 03 March 1847, 07h00 LMT, Edinburgh, Scotland. 
. 29 July 1907, O8hOO PST, Sonora, California. 
h. 23 October 1844, 20h00 LMT, Paris, France. 
- 16 August 1920, 10h00 CET, Andernach, Germany. 
. 12 May 1937, 11h45 EDST, New York, New York. 
. 02 May 1729, 02h30 LMT, Stettin, Germany. 
19 January 1839, 01h00 LMT, Aix, France. 
. 27 October 1939, 03h15 GDT, Weston-super-Mare, England. 
. 26 October 1947, O8h02 CST, Chicago, Illinois. 
16 December 1899, 02h30 GMT, Teddington, England. 
. 06 April 1931, 10h40 EST, Boston, Massachusetts. 
. 09 January 1908, 04h30 LST, Paris, France. 
. 30 March 1968, 12h15 EST, Charlemagne, Quebec. 
. 24 May 1941, 21h05 CST, Duluth, Minnesota. 
- 14 March 1879, 11h30 LMT, Ulm, Germany. 
. 11 February 1920, 22h30 EET, Cairo, Egypt. 
. 09 February 1945, 11h27 PDST, Los Angeles, California. 
20 June 1909, 02h25 AEST, Hobart, Australia. 
. 11 August 1943, 17h27 PDST, San Francisco, California. 
- 17 March 1942, 00h29 CDST, Chicago, !\linois. 
. 19 November 1917, 23h11 IST, Allahabad, UP, India. 
. 26 February 1802, 22h30 LMT, Besancon, France. 
. 11 February 1925, 09h30 CST, Springfield, Missouri. 
|. 11 April 1928, 03h30 CST, Chicago, Illinois. 
. 12 March 1922, 17h00 EST, Lowell, Massachusetts. 
. 21 September 1947, 01h30 EDST, Portland, Maine. 
17 October 1938, 14h40 MST, Butte, Montana. 
. 08 July 1926, 22h45 MET, Zurich, Switzerland. 


. 28 April 1950, 02h03 EST, New Rochelle, New York. 


. 12 January 1876, 14h00 LMT, San Francisco, California. 
. 16 August 1958, 07h05 EST, Bay City, Michigan. 


. 23 January 1832, 19h00O LMT, Paris, France. 
. 25 February 1894, 05h00 LST, Poona, India. 
- 31 January 1915, O9hO0O GMT, Prades, France. 
- 12 March 1946, 07h58 PST, Los Angeles, California. 
. 31 August 1870, 02h40 LST, Chiaravalle, Italy. 
- 18 October 1956, 16h40 MET, Prague, Czechoslovakia. 
. 15 October 1844, 10h00 LMT, Rocken, Germany. 
. 09 January 1913, 21h35 PST, Yorba Linda, California. 
. 09 January 1944, 04h00 GDT, Heston, England. 
. 25 October 1881, 23h15 LMT, Malaga, Spain. 
. 27 October 1932, 14h10 EST, Boston, Massachusetts. 
. 11 December 1931, 17h13 IST, Bhopal, MP, India. 
. 18 December 1943, 06h00 GDT, Dartford, England. 
. 20 October 1854, 06h00 LMT, Charleville, France. 
- 13 May 1961, 00h10 EDST, Trenton, New Jersey. 
. 15 November 1891, 12h00 LST, Heidenheim, Germany. 
. 23 March 1895, 01h00 LST, Paris, France. 
- 18 May 1872, 17h45 GMT, Trellech, Wales. 
- 31 January 1797, 13h30 LMT, Vienna, Austria. 
. 19 February 1946, 21h50 CST, Longview, Texas. 
. 21 June 1983, 04h42 EDST, Elizabeth City, North Carolina. 
. 09 March 1918, 00h10 EST, Brooklyn, New York. 
. 20 August 1918, 19h25 EDST, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. 
. 13 December 1989, 20h46 EST, Wyomissing, Pennsylvania. 
. 20 February 1949, 00h55 MET, Gottwaldov, Czechoslovakia. 
. 08 February 1921, 12h30 PST, Wallace, Idaho. 
. 19 November 1938, 08h50 EST, Cincinnati, Ohio. 
. 26 November 1939, 22h10 CST, Nutbush, Tennessee. 
. 07 December 1949, 07h25 PST, Pomona, California. 
. 04 Jun 1928, 04h00 MET, Karlstadt, Germany. 
. 21 April 1926, 02h40 GDT, London, England. 
. 29 January 1954, 04h30 CST, Kosciusko, Mississippi. 


Bibliography 


Agarwal, G.S. Practical Vedic Astrology. New Delhi, India: Sagar Publications, 1998. 
Annand, Alan. Parivartana Yoga. Toronto, Canada: Sextile, 2015. 


Barclay, Olivia. Horary Astrology Rediscovered. West Chester, USA: Whitford Press, 
1990. 


Bippus, Ron. Horary Handbook. Toronto, Canada: Bippus, 2001. 


Birchfield, Steven. “Reception.” (Article provided by the author via personal corre- 
spondence.) Originally published online at <http://www.worldastrology.net/arti- 
cles/reception.html> 


Birchfield, Steven. “The Living Signs of the Zodiac.” (Article provided by the author 
via personal correspondence. Publication history unknown.) 


Bowser, Kenneth. “For The Sidereal Zodiac.” Skyscript. Web. September 2015. 
<http://www.skyscript.co.uk/sidereal2.html> 


Bowser, Kenneth. “A Brief Overview of the Astrological Work of Cyril Fagan.” 
Western Sidereal Astrology. Web. September 2015. <http://media.wix.com/ 
ugd/45f0b2_f0b1b59d4dc75f9a7d00428830e28cfa.pdf> 


Brennan, Chris. “Did Ptolemy Use Whole Sign Houses?” The Hellenistic Astrology 
Website. Web. March 2016. <http://www.hellenisticastrology.com/2011/12/08/ 
did-ptolemy-use-whole-sign-houses/> 

Brennan, Chris. “Triplicity Rulers According to Dorotheus, Valens and Rhetorius” 
The Hellenistic Astrology Website. Web. March 2016. <http://www.hellenisticastrol- 
ogy.com/diagrams/triplicity-rulers.pdf> 


Butler, Ryhan. “Planetary Reception, Part Il: Guests and Hosts.” Association for 
Young Astrologers. Web. September 2015. <http://youngastrologers.org/planetary- 
reception-part-ii-guests-hosts/> 

Carroll, Sean. “Chapter 11: Quantum Time.” From Eternity to Here: the Quest for 
the Ultimate Theory of Time. Web. March 2016. <http://preposterousuniverse.com/ 
eternitytohere/quantum/> 


Dean, Geoffrey. Recent Advances in Natal Astrology. Southampton, England: The 
Camelot Press, 1977. 


deFouw, Hart & Svoboda, Robert. Light on Life. London, England: Penguin Books, 
1996. 


deVore, Nicholas. Encyclopedia of Astrology. Totowa, USA: Littlefield, Adams & Co, 
1976. 


Dykes, Benjamin N. “Masha’‘allah: What is Reception?” Skyscript. Web. September 
2015. <http://www.skyscript.co.uk/masha_allah_receptions.html> 


Dykes, Benjamin N. “The Decans in Astrology.” Ben Dykes website. April 2016. 
<http://www.bendykes.com/articles/decans.php> 


Feuerstein, Georg. The Shambhala Encyclopedia of Yoga. Boston, USA: Shambhala 
Publications, 1997. 


Gryphon, Nina. “Reception by Malefic Planets in Astrology.” Gryphon Astrology 


Blog. Web. September 2015. <http://gryphonastrology.com/blog/2015/01/31/re- 
ception-by-malefic-planets-astrology/> 

Hand, Robert. “A Passage from Masha’allah.” Arhat Media. Web. April 2016. 
<http://arhatmedia.com/recept.htm> 

Hand, Robert. “Dignities and Debilities as Collected from a Variety of Sources.” 
Arhat Media. Web. September 2015. <http://arhatmedia.com/alldign.htm> 

Hand, Robert. “On Reception: a workshop.” The Blast Astrology Conference, Sedona, 
AZ, March 29th - April 2nd, 2007. YouTube: <https://www.youtube.com/watch? 
v=Q3k86s30ViIM> 

Hand, Robert. “Towards a Post-Modern Astrology.” Astrodienst. Web. March 2016. 
<http://www.astro.com/astrology/in_postmodern_e.htm> 

Hawking, Stephen. "Does God Play Dice?” Hawking. Web. September 2015. <http:// 
www.hawking.org.uk/does-god-play-dice.html> 

Hermes, Martien. “Masha’allah’s Method in Short.” The Foundations, Issue 1, Winter 
Solstice 2006. 

Holden, James H. A History of Horoscopic Astrology. Tempe, USA: American Federa- 
tion of Astrologers, 1996. 

Houlding, Deborah. “A Brief Comparison of the Use of Reception in History.” 
Skyscript. Web. August 2015. <http://www.skyscript.co.uk/reception2.html> 
Houlding, Deborah. “Bonatti’s Table of Perfection.” Skyscript. Web. August 2015. 
<http://www.skyscript.co.uk/perfection.html> 

Houlding, Deborah. “Lilly's Use of Reception in Horary.” Skyscript. Web. August 
2015. <http://archive.is/ZbOT7> 

Houlding, Deborah. “The Use of Reception Between Dignities.” Skyscript. Web. Au- 
gust 2015. <http://www.skyscript.co.uk/dig6.html> 

Humphrey, Marc; Pancella, Paul; Berrah, Nora. Quantum Physics. New York, USA: 
Penguin, 2015. 

Lehman, Lee. “Essential Dignities.” Lee Lehman. Web. September 2015. <http:// 
www.leelehman.com/pages/images/Dignity.pdf> 

Lehman, Lee. “Encyclopedic Entry on Horary Astrology.” Lee Lehman. Web. May 
2016. <http://leephd.blogspot.ca/2006/07/encyclopedia-entry-on-horary-astrolo- 
gy-html> 

Lilly, William. An Introduction to Astrology. Hollywood, USA: Newcastle Publishing 
Company, 1972. 

Louis, Anthony. Horary Astrology Plain & Simple. St. Paul, USA: Llewellyn Publica- 
tions, 1998. 

Mauro, Colleen. “Western Sidereal Astrology: an Interview with Kenneth Bowser.” 
The Mountain Astrologer. October/November 2004. Print. 

Navarro, Gilbert. “When Mutual Receptions Don't Work.” Horary Astrology. Web. 
May 2016. <http://www.navarroastrology.com/articles/article?article_id=8> 


Noblehorse, Douglas. “Bounds, Terms or Limits?” The Arizona Society of Astrologers. 
Web. March 2016. <http://www.azastrologers.org/Articles/Noblehorse Bound- 


sPart1.pdf> 


Parashara. Brihat Parashara Hora Shastra, Volume |. Translated Girish Chind 
Sharma. New Delhi, India: Sagar Publications, 1995. 


Tobyn, Graeme. “A review of the astrological tradition concerning the perfection of 
significators & its denial.” Skyscript. Web. September 2015. <http://www.skyscrip- 
t.co.uk/tobyn2.html> 

Ward, Sue. “The Correct Use of Reception in Traditional Astrology.” EasyWeb. Web. 
September 2015. <http://easyweb.easynet.co.uk/~sueward/articles/receiving.pdf> 
Warnock, Christopher. “Let’s Get Traditional with Reception.” Renaissance Astrol- 
ogy. Web. September 2015. <http://renaissance-astrology.blogspot.ca/2013/02/ 
lets-get-traditional-with-reception.html> 

Warnock, Christopher. “Modern vs Traditional Approach to Astrology.” Re- 
naissance Astrology. Web. September 2015. < http://renaissance-astrolo- 
gy.blogspot.ca/2008/10/modern-vs-traditional-approach-to.html> 


. “Astrology and Science.” Wikipedia. Web. March 2016. <https:// 


en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Astrology_and_science> 
_. “Astrology in Medieval Islam." Wikipedia. Web. March 2016. <https:// 
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Astrology_in_medieval_Islam> 
_. “Decans." Wikipedia. Web. February 2016. <https://en.wikipedia.org/ 
wiki/Decans> 
_. “Essential Dignity.” Wikipedia. Web. March 2016. <https:// 
en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Essential_dignity> 
. “Hellenistic Astrology." Wikipedia. Web. March 2016. <https:// 
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hellenistic_astrology> 
. “Mutual Reception." Wikipedia. Web. September 2015. <https:// 
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mutual_reception> 


_. “Triplicity.“ Wikipedia. Web. March 2016. <https://en.m.wikipedia.org/ 
wiki/Triplicity> 


About the Author 


Alan Annand is a Canadian astrologer, accredited by the American College of Vedic 
Astrology and the British Faculty of Astrological Studies. 
He consults, teaches and writes a monthly blog on a range of topics —astrological 
techniques, celebrity profiles and mundane events. 
His NEW AGE NOIR crime series (Scorpio Rising, Felonious Monk, Soma County) fea- 
tures astrologer and palmist Axel Crowe, whom one reviewer has dubbed “Sherlock 
Holmes with a horoscope.” 


Websites: : 


