Understanding Relations ~ 
The 


Vedic Astrology Way 


Alka Vijh 


Br srnmu 


Contents 


Preface 
Introduction 


1. Basic Concepts of Astrology 

2. Astrology for Better Marriages 

3. Combinations for Successful Marriages 

4. Combinations that lead to Divorce 

5. Combinations leading to Unhappy Marriages 
6. Combinations for more than One Marriage 
7. Extramarital Relationships 

8. Love Marriages 

9. Intercaste Marriages 

10. Combinations leading to Widowhood 

11. Combinations leading to Widowerhood 
12. Combinations for Denial of Marriages 
13. Miscellaneous 

14. Parents-Children Relationship 

15. Brother-Sister Relationship 

16. Friendship 

17. Astrology for Better Relationships 


Preface 


The future is fascinating for us all. We frequently ponder over the past 
and remember how often we have been overtaken by surprises. We’ve 
often wondered too on the host of opportunities we’ve missed because 
they were presented suddenly. We then reflect saying, “If only I’d have 
known it earlier”. That makes us wish for any knowledge that may help 
no more these situations obtainable. 


Since time immemorial, man has been trying to find ways to know the 
future. He has developed many methods to pursue this. These methods 
are known as occult studies. Some famous occult studies include palm 
reading, playing cards, tarots, dominoes; with the help of dice, tea leaves, 
I Ching, etc. Most of these; in fact all of these methods are operations of 
chance. They depend on the concentration and divinity of the fortune 
teller. Astrology is the only branch of fortune telling that is not based on 
only this. With a scientific base, Astrology delves in astronomical 
calculations. It is a science that has its foundations in the study of the 
stars and heavenly bodies. This study that revolves around the effect of 
heavenly bodies is known as Astrology. 


Situated miles away from us, stars and planets are non-living physical 
bodies. Intriguingly, they follow the rules of nature. Revolving in their 
predestined path, planets rotate on their axis. Positions of stars are 
generally fixed with respect to each other. According to the Law of 
Gravitation of the Universe, stars maintain the forces of attraction and 
repulsion. The Sun is the major source of energy on Earth. It affects both 
living as well as non-living world, even though it 1s 9.38 lakh miles away 
from us. When the Sun transits through a particular sign, seasons also 
change. The summer, winter and monsoon all are governed by the Sun. 
The energy is so vast that today solar energy is used for many purposes. 
When the shape of the moon is decreased or increased, there are several 
changes that are seen in persons with lunatic disorders. When the shape 
of moon is increased lunatics become more violent though they are 
submissive during the darker phases of the moon. Perhaps this is why 
certain mental diseases are named as Lunatic-meaning ‘of the Moon’. It 
is a common observation that on a full moon day, tides of ocean are also 
at their peak. Similarly, other planets too affect other heavenly bodies in 
the solar system. Since the Earth is also a part of the solar system, it also 
gets influenced by these effects. 


The world of Astrology is a scientific as well as a mystic world. It is 
based on astronomical calculations so for an astrologer to predict 
anything, he should have in-depth knowledge of both astronomy and 
mathematics. This is one of the reasons, why Astrology is difficult for all 
to understand. As faith in Astrology increased, western countries too 


succumbed to its charm. It is primarily due to curiosity that people fall 
into the hands of quacks and are cheated. This also shatters their faith at 
times. It is imperative to note that knowledge is never wrong but it is 
people who apply it wrongly. This book is written to help in the 
understanding of Astrology without pain. Although one cannot be an 
astrologer after reading this book but the book would certainly help a 
novice understand the terms and basic concepts of Astrology, relating to 
different areas of life. Moreover, there are different combinations made 
easy for a learner that are quoted with examples and their applications. 
For an astrologer, this book is a ready reckoner. The aim of writing this 
book is to make a general person aware about the terminologies and 
applications of astrology so that he is unaffected by quacks. New terms 
defined in this book would make it easy for readers to understand. 
Furthermore, this book helps in breaking myths and fears in Astrology. 


Undersstanding Relations-The Vedic Astrology Way, concentrates 
on different relations shared by a person. The relationship between a 
husband and wife are the main axis of life on which the whole family 
revolves. A wrong decision may spoil a complete life. It is necessary to 
understand your capabilities. Sometimes it 1s observed that a person is 
unaware about his hidden potential. Astrology makes you understand 
your hidden energies and talents, thereby allowing you to concentrate on 
the right direction. The same can be said about relations. When you are 
able to understand the behaviour and potential of another person, you can 
relate to and know him better. You can also make an effort to improve 
your relation with him. Relations with siblings, parents, friends, etc., are 
also included in this book. (Here I wish to note that he / him is used as 
common for both men and women in the book, it does not signify men 
only. It should be considered as either one of them wherever required.) 
Different examples with their birth charts are provided with a view to 
understand the matter more effectively. However, only a birth chart 1s not 
enough for making any prediction. No conclusion should be drawn 
without looking at the Navamsha chart and the related divisional chart. 
Hence, divisional charts are also provided wherever required. 


Any knowledge may lose its importance when it is bound by rigidity 
making it stagnant. Like stagnant water becomes polluted with time, so 
does stagnant knowledge. New researches are required to explore new 
dimensions. 


In conclusion, I would like to reiterate that To err is human.’ Should 
there be any error while explaining the text or anything else in the 
narrative, I would be happy to know of it so that it can be improved. Your 
precious suggestions are always welcome. 


Astrologically Yours, 
Alka Vijh 
(Jyotishacharya) 


Introduction 


If people were really happy because they’re having a fulfilling intimate 
relationship, wouldn’t humanity as a whole be much better off than it is 
today? 


Man is a social animal. He lives amidst his family and is emotionally 
bound to them. He loves being with his loved ones. If there’s one thing 
that eats into his hectic life today, it is the difficulty to concentrate and 
give his loved ones as much time as he would want to. Tension mounts to 
stress; both physically and emotionally leading to a psychological break 
down of his system. It is perhaps this reason that the sages in the past laid 
down the rules for a healthy society; grooming man from the beginning 
of his childhood until old age. 


Every relationship is a wholehearted commitment to support and to 
cherish. We all have several relations. These include blood, family and 
social relations. While each relation has its own importance in life, it is 
our interaction amongst others that drives our behaviour, thought and 
sensitivity. 

Within our family too, parents are committed to guarding and 
supporting a child; in pain and in pleasure. Parents do a thankless job, 
never hoping to be credited for anything. They are hurt when children are 
ungrateful, stubborn and disobedient. This is so as they simply expect 
their child to be good and be an ideal citigen for the society. 


Similarly, every relation has its bunch of expectations. Never as 
materialistic, reciprocation is usually in the form of love and care. When 
this remains unfulfilled according to one’s expectations, the bond of 
relation becomes shaky. Should this continue for long; it may result in the 
severing of relations; leaving behind bitter memories. All relations are as 
important as any one of them, however, the one that takes precedence 
over others is that of a husband and wife. Generally perceived as the axis 
of the family, this relationship if strained can adversely affect the 
children. In most broken marriages, it is the children who are devoid of 
love and care of one parent, thereby creating a huge void in their lives. 
It’s easy to note the frustrated expressions on a wife or husband’s face 
depicting their quarrelsome night. Job related frustration often translates 
at home. Children have to face the brunt of this at most times. Servants 
and/or other members of the family aren’t spared either. 


In conclusion, if one relation is strained, it can affect others too. A 
distorted shape of relations gives rise to aggressiveness in all forms; 
behaviour, arrogance and cruelty. In some extreme cases, it even 
escalates to a psychological imbalance. Physicians can treat bodily 
ailments; but strained relations need special care. Astrologers for one can 


foresee and predict the possible outcome of the relation. Every relation is 
important to us. And because everybody is inquisitive about his or her 
relationship with the other person, a lot of anxiety surrounds marriage. 
There are questions galore regarding its success. In a parent-children 
relationship, the central focus almost always oscillates between whether 
the children would take care of the parents or not in their old age. 


Similarly in every arena of life there are always some anxieties. If 
you’d like to unlock your true potential, gain a better understanding of 
your inner self, and learn the secrets to love, success and happiness, then 
this may perhaps be the most important piece of information you’ll ever 
read. 


Chapter I 


Basic Concepts of Astrology 


Faithful horoscope watching practised daily, provides just the sort 
ofsmall hut warm and infinitely reassuring fillip that gets matters off to a 
spirited start 


— Shana Alexander 


To understand the 4th coming chapters, a basic knowledge of Astrology 
is essential. Astrology; the science of stars becomes an art when one 
predicts forth coming events with the help of the chart. Birth date, time 
and place are of primary importance in formulating the Birth 
Chart/Horoscope. A horoscope is but a pictorial representation of the 
placement of stars in the sky at the time of birth of a person, at the 
particular date, time and place. 

It is the culmination of all astronomical tools with which an astrologer 
(a person; a specialist who can read the horoscope and is able to predict 
the event, post reading), can predict the events in one’s life. There are 
various techniques used by an astrologer that helps him do so. All these 
techniques are based on the movement or positioning of planets, signs, 
stars as well as several other astronomical factors. 

These are the building blocks of astrological practice. Vedic 
astrologers roughly follow the 10 basic factors-of which 5 are 
astronomical factors and the other 5 factors are derivations based on these 
factors. 


Astronomical factors 


. Solar System 
. Zodiac 

. Planets 

. Nakshatras 


. Time 


Mm BWON 


Derived factors are: 


1. Birth Chart 
2. Divisional Charts 


3. Of Planetary aspects, relations, avasthas (condition), strength, etc. 
4. Of Signs- characteristics 
5. Dasha system 


Astronomical Factors 


1. The Solar System: Our solar system is heliocentric, 1.e., the 
Sun is in the centre and all the planets viz., Mercury, Venus, 
Earth, Mars, Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus, Neptune, Pluto revolve 
around the Sun, in an elliptical path. As we stand on the Earth 
and observe the whole system revolving around us, similarly 
while studying astrology we take the solar system as 
geocentric, 1.e., the planets and the Sun are moving around the 
Earth in the same elliptical path. The Sun, which is a star and 
the Moon, which is a natural satellite of the Earth are 
considered as planets in Astrology. In the Vedic system of 
Astrology, there are 2nd shadowy points known as Rahu and 
Ketu also recognized as planets. They are not physical bodies 
but are mathematically calculated sensitive points of 
intersection of the orbit of the Sun and the Moon. They always 
move in the reverse motion. This motion is known as 
retrograded motion. The Sun and the moon never retrograde. 
The remaining planets are direct in motion but due to some 
forces they become stationary or are sometimes retrograded 
when they are at certain distance from the Sun. They regain 
their natural courses again after some time. 


2. Zodiac: The Earth rotates on its axis from the west to the 
east which is why we see the Sun rising from the east and 
setting in the west. The path on which the Sun appears to travel 
is known as the solar path (Fig.1). Heavenly bodies are present 
at the extent of 9 degree above and 9 degree below (total of 18 
degrees) this solar path. This broad belt is known as the Zodiac. 


Figure |. Solar Path 


A circle has 360 degrees, since the zodiac is circular in shape; it too 
has 360 degrees. We have 12 signs present in this belt. Hence, each sign 
would have the extent of 30 degrees each. The stretch starts from 0 
degrees, Aries, which is then subsequently followed by Taurus, Gemini, 
Cancer, Leo, Virgo, Libra, Scorpio, Sagittarius, Capricorn, Aquarius and 
Pisces. Different signs have different characteristics, which play an 
important role in the delineation of astrological charts. The planets move 


in these 12 signs. Details of such characteristics are given further in this 
chapter. 


Figure 2. Zodiac Belt showing signs with degrees 


3. Planets: Astronomically there are 9 planets known to us, 
viz., Mercury, Venus, Earth, Mars, Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus, 
Neptune and Pluto. As we have already discussed in Vedic 
astrology the Sun, the moon and the 2 shadowy planets, Rahu 
and Ketu are also considered as planets. Each sign in the 
Zodiac is ruled by a planet. 


Another thumb rule is that different signs have different characteristics. 
Similarly different planets also have different characteristics. Since the 
signs and planets play an important role in the astrological charts, they 
are described later in this chapter. 


4. Nakshatras: Nakshatras also known as asterisms or birth 
constellations. They are a group of stars with a definite shape 
spread across the signs of the zodiac belt. They are 27 in 
number each with an extent of 1 3 degrees and 20 minutes. 
Each nakshatra is divided into four parts of 3 degree and 20 
minutes known as pada or charan. Each pada has its own 
characteristics. Interestingly, each sign of the zodiac covers 2 
1/4 nakshatras 1.e., 4+4+1= 9 padas. 


Nakshatras are further grouped in three’s; known as triad, ruled by a 
planet known as its lord - means to govern. These nakshatras are 
influenced by the characteristics of their lords. So there are 9 groups of 
these triads. 


Table 1. Showing Triad of Nakshatra with its Lord 


sNol___Wiadornacenavas [tore 
| ain [abe [ea 
[2 Bharani | Poorva Phatguni | Poorva Ashacha | Venus 
[vena [veri [ [on 
}4. | Rohini | Shravana | 


[esse [or [ors [oe — 
[| Avra | Swe | Shatin | Rar 
fa_| Pusiya | Anuradha | Utara Shaken | Satu 
[o.[aaiesna | Jyeonne | Reve | Mery 


The Ist Nakshatra Ashwini starts from 0 degree of the zodiac, i.e., Aries 
and Ketu is its lord. This is followed by Venus, Sun, Moon, Mars, Rahu, 
Jupiter, Saturn and Mercury follow in this sequence till the end of the 
sign Cancer. The same sequence starts from 0 degree, from Leo and 
Sagittarius till Scorpio and Pisces respectively. 


Table 2. Showing extent of Nakshatra with Charan and Lords in a Sign 


ee 
ee 
(2 [Faunss 1. Ketka is Sun 
es 
[8 gsr ars 
ee a 
es 
[Cancer 1. Punarvasy (1 uitr 
ee 
[8 Ashtech [4 Meroury 
[tee Magha a Keta 
[2 Parva Phaigun’ [4 | Verws 
[JS Uttara Phaigu [1 sun 
[e[Wigo 1. Utara Phaigur [3 [Sun 
— 


3 [3 [dupiter 
1. Vichakha (1 —(upter 
P| «2 Anuradha «(4 «(Satu 


Ketu 


i0_[Gapream |1. Utara Ashacha [3 [Sun 
ee ee 
[|]. Danish [2 Mars 
Pa [Aquarios[1. Dhanishtha [2 (Mars 
es ee 


[Js Fane Bhacrapad [3 [upton 
[i2__[Pisces 1. Puma Bhadrapad [1 [Jupiter 


ee 
ee 


5. Time: Time differs from country to country. The Sun rises in 
the eastern countries earlier than the western countries. India is 
five hours and 30 minutes ahead from Greenwich Mean Time. 
Local Mean Time, Standard Time of a country or a Zone are 
also taken into consideration while making a_ horoscope. 
Sidereal Time is another measure taken into consideration 
while making a horoscope. It is time, which is derived from the 
Earth’s rotation with respect to a fixed star. The duration of one 
sidereal day is 23 hours and 56 minutes. Whenever the time is 
calculated with reference to sidereal day then it is called as 
Sidereal Time. 


Derived Factors 


I. The Birth Chart 


For predicting any event, an astrologer needs a description of the stars at 
the time of the birth of a person. This birth chart is also known as the 
Horoscope, Janma Kundli or Janma Patrika. As discussed earlier it is 
based on the pictorial depiction of stars at the time of birth at that 
particular date and place. (Making a birth chart is an _ intricate 
mathematical exercise, which is beyond the scope of this look) 


You will often come across the term /ouses in the birth chart. Literally, 
a house means a place to live in. Astrologically, it is the place where 
signs and planets are present in the zodiacal belt. It is the space occupied 
by | 2 signs in the zodiac belt of 30 degrees each. Thus in all, we get 1 2 
signs with | 2 houses; 9 planets and 27 constellations roaming in them. 


Each and every area of life is divided under the significations of these 
houses. The technique to draw a birth chart differs at different places. In a 
North Indian chart, houses are fixed; whereas in south Indian chart and 
east Indian chart, it is the signs that are fixed and not the houses. In 
western countries, a chart is circular in shape and houses are fixed. 


In a north Indian chart the houses are fixed in a rectangular shape 
diagram that is further divided into 12 compartments. The upper-central 
box is the 1st house known as the Lagna (or the Ascendant) and the other 
houses follow up in an anti-clockwise direction. It would be better seen 


through Figure 3. 


Figure 3. A North Indian Chart showing ascendant and houses 


In this north Indian chart (Figure 3) it shows that the ascendant is 
Libra. So Libra is the rising sign at the time of the birth of the person. 
Libra is the sign of the 1 st house also. The 2nd house has the number 8 
which is the number of the sign Scorpio, hence the filling of the houses 
subsequently goes on. It is already observed that the counting of houses is 
done anti-clockwise and that the house is also included from where the 
counting starts. This simply means that if we start the counting from the 
TVth house then the 7th house from the fourth house would be 10th house 
from the ascendant. 


Lagna is also known as the Ascendant or the rising sign. It is the sign 
rising over the eastern horizon at the time of one’s birth at that particular 
place; commonly referred to the Sign which is peering over the horizon at 
that very moment. A new Sign rises approximately every 2 hours. 


In the south Indian chart (Figure 4), the signs are fixed and the Lagna 
is marked by 2 lines - at the top left corner or simply written Lagna or 
Ascendant in the box. In the south Indian chart the houses change their 
position whereas the signs are fixed. Here too, the 1 st house starts where 
the ascendant is. 


In the south Indian chart, Libra is the ascendant shown by 2 lines 
drawn at the left corner. This is the 1st house of the horoscope. The next 


sign 1s Scorpio which is in the 2nd house of the horoscope. Sagittarius 
sign is the 3rd house of the horoscope and so on and so forth. 


PISGES TAUAUS GEMINI 
iv VII IX 


AQUARIUS 
V 


GCAPRIGORN 
iv 


SAGITTARIUS | SCORFIC ASGENANT 


lEI It 
i 


Figure 4. South Indian Chart 


In western astrology, the birth chart is circular. The inner circle drawn 
in the western astrology chart shows the planets in the twelve houses. The 
10th house is at the top of the chart. The outer circle shows the signs. The 
inner lines show the aspects among the planets. 

This chart is made more informative by showing the degrees along 


with the signs and planets. The good aspects and the bad aspects among 
the planets are depicted through different colourful lines. 


Tony Blair 


Masr 


Figure 5. Western Astrology Chart 


An east Indian chart is used in Bengal and Orissa. In this chart, the 
signs are fixed. The Ascendant is marked with any particular sign or 
simply written as ascendant. The remaining houses are counted in an anti- 


clockwise direction. 


TAURUS 
Vill 
GEMINI 
Ix 
CANCER 
x 
LEO 
xl 
 YIRGO 


AH 


PISGES 
ARIES Vil 
VII 
¥ 
AQUARIUS. 
CAPRICORN 
Iv 
SAGITTARIUS 
LIBRA : II 
I 
ASCEN- ‘ 
DANT SCORPIO 


Figure 6. An East Indian Chart 


Whatever the shape of the diagram, the planets are placed in the houses 
bearing signs where planets are located astronomically. 


II. Divisional Charts 


Many a times, a question arises in mind of a common man; that planetary 
positions do not change within a few minutes then how is it possible for 2 
persons to be born at the same time and at the same place and still have 
different fates. This means that all people born during that time will have 
similar planetary combinations. In the case of twins too, it is seen that the 
fate of twins have lot of differences. 


To overcome this difficulty, Rishi Parashara had described the use of 
divisional charts or subtle divisions. The Divisional Charts are the 
division of each sign into specific number of parts. A complete sign 
comprises of 30 degrees each. This is further divided into fractions. So 
the rising sign falls within a specific area of division. This is true for 
planets as well. There are 16 charts described by Rishi Parashara which 
are helpful in predicting any event. Sometimes it is observed that an event 
that looks promising in the Birth Chart does not bear the fruitful result. 
Divisional charts come in handy here. -The birth chart is Ist analysed, 
followed, if necessary by the Navamsha chart. It is 1/9 division of a sign 
of 3 degrees and 20 minutes, that is considered as support chart 
(Navamsha chart is also known as the complimentary chart or the soul of 
the horoscope. It is usually given about 40% importance along with the 
Birth Chart in making predictions.). Further happenings are confirmed by 
the related divisional charts. Even well-versed astrologers do not consider 
all charts at a time for predictions. A snapshot of the 16 divisional charts 
(vargas) with their divisions and their specific areas of significance is 
given below:- 


1. Birth chart- The 1 2 signs are distributed in the 1 2 houses. Each 
sign extends up to 30 degrees. The birth chart is considered for self, 
physique, health, etc. It depicts general information regarding every 
area of life. 


2. Hora - A sign is divided into 2 parts of 1 5 degrees each. This chart 
is considered for wealth and prosperity of a person. 


3. Drekkana - Here each sign is divided into 3 equal parts of 10 
degrees. This chart is considered for the well-being of brothers and 
sisters and health of a person. 


10. 


11. 


2. 


13. 


14. 


15. 


16. 


. Chaturthamsha - A sign is divided into 4 parts of 7 degree and 30 


minutes. It is considered for fate and residence. 


. Saptamsha- It is 1 /7 of a sign being equivalent to 4-1 7’8.5” each. 


It is considered for the well-being of children and grandchildren. 


. Navamsha - It is 1/9 of a sign equal to 3 degree 20 minutes. It is 


the most important divisional chart of a horoscope. This chart is 
considered primarily for spouses, but profession, business and 
general considerations of all areas are also considered from this 
chart. 


. Dashamsha - This sign is divided into 1 0 parts of 3 degree each. 


Dashamsha is considered mainly for profession and business. Any 
benefits or loss are considered through it. 


. Dwadashamsha - This comprises of 1/12 of sign of 2 degrees 30 


minutes. Dwadashamsha is considered for parents as well as health 
that is also foretold from this chart. 


. Shodashamsha - A sign is divided into 1 6 divisions of 1 degree 52 


minutes and 30 seconds. Comfort and troubles of conveyance, 
vehicles, etc., are considered through this chart. 


Timshamsha - Here a sign that is divided into 20 divisions of 1 
degree and 30 minutes. This divisional chart is for spiritual 
knowledge and penance. 


Chaturvimshamsha - A sign is divided into twenty four equal 
divisions of 1 degree 15 minutes. This chart is considered for 
education, knowledge and learning. 


Bhamsha -27 divisions of a sign of 1 degree 6 minutes and 40 
seconds. This chart shows strengths and weaknesses of a person. 


Trimshamsha - It is 1/30 division of a sign. The division of each 
sign is unequal here. It is considered for misfortunes, miseries and 
troubles, etc. 


Khavedamsha - This is 1/40th division of a sign. Each division has 
0 degrees 45 minutes of a sign. This is considered for all good and 
bad happenings in a life. 


Akshavedamsha - Each sign is divided into 45 parts of 0 degree 40 
minutes. It is considered for all happenings of life. 


Shashtyamsha - This is 1/60 division of a sign of 30 minutes only. 
This is also considered for all things in a life. 


Il. PLANETS 


Their significance as discussed earlier, there are 9 planets or navgraha in 
Vedic Astrology. 


They have been assigned the ownership to the signs excluding Rahu 
and Ketu. 


Sun - Leo 

Moon - Cancer 

Mars - Aries, Scorpio 
Mercury - Gemini, Virgo 
Jupiter - Sagittarius, Pisces 
Venus- Taurus, Libra 

Saturn - Capricorn, Aquarius. 


There are some signs where planets are strong and are able to give 
good results. Then they are known as exalted (1.e., uchcha in Vedic 
Astrology) planets. The same planet though may not be as exalted when it 
is in the 7th house away from its exalted sign. There it does not produce a 
good result. It becomes weak and is known as debilitated (i.e. neecha in 
Vedic astrology) 


Table 3. Exaltation and Debilitated sign of a Planet 


ae Sign of exattation | Sign of debilitation 


Capricom 
Virgo 
Gancer 
Pisces. 
Lidra 


T aus 


Scorpio: 


Planets also become powerless when they are combust. 


A planet becomes combust when it comes nearer to the Sun on its either 
side. 


Moon-12 degree 
Mars - | 7 degree 


Mercury- 1 3 degree 
Jupiter- 11 degree 
Venus - 9 degree 
Saturn - 15 degree 


Planets become helpless in producing the result when they are 
combust. According to some astrologers, the effect of a combust planet is 
seen in the time period of the Sun. 


When a planet is in good position is able to produce good result and is 
termed as benefic whereas the planet which gives evil result is known as 
malefic. 


Sun, Mars, Saturn, Rahu and Ketu are natural malefic planets and show 
separative results. Whereas Jupiter, Venus and waxing moon - the 
increasing Moon (when Moon is moving away from the Sun) are benefic 
in result. Mercury when associated with benefic will show good results 
and with malefic shows bad results. The waning Moon - decreasing moon 
too is not supposed to be good. Planets have friends and enemies too like 
us. 


Table 4. Planetary Friendship Table 


et Moon, Mars. Saturn, Rahu, Mercury 
Jupiter Venus 
Moon oun, Mercury Rahu-Ketu Venus, Mars, 
Jupiter, Saturn 
Mars oun, Moon, . Mercury Venus, Satum 
Jupiter 


Mercury Sun, VEnLES Koon Mars, Jupiter, 
Satum 
Jupiter oun, Moon, Mercury, YVenus| Saturn 
Mars 


} 6. [Venus oatum, | Satum, Mercury] Sun,Mcon sun, Moon pra ae Mars 


ser woe A 


Significations of planets 


Sun- The Sun signifies the father, soul, courage, power, authority, 


commanding power, real love, reputation and success. It gets afflicted - 
which means that under the influence of malefic planets, a planet is not 
able to produce good results of its significance, it does so as it is badly 
affected. This is generally when Rahu, Ketu, Saturn or Mars have an 
influence on it. Then sun becomes separating in nature. An afflicted Sun 
produces strained relations with father, loss/trouble to father. 


Moon- It signifies mother, softness, generosity, mental happiness. It 
becomes afflicted when associated with Rahu-Ketu fears are developed 
within the person. Saturn causes depression with Moon. When Mars is 
associated with the Moon it develops strong attraction for the opposite 
sex. Moon with Jupiter produces harmonious relations. Moon and Venus 
makes one fond of the opposite sex, cheerful and luxurious. 


Mercury- It signifies education, learning, grammar, mathematics, 
accounts, astrology and astronomy, trading, conversation, birds, friends, 
speech, skin and nervous breakdown, etc. Mercury is known as malefic 
when associated with malefic planets. With benefic planets it gives good 
results. It acquires the effect of its conjunct planet or in a sign in which it 
is present. 


Mars- It signifies brother, courage, ambitions, self-confidence, energy, 
accidents, operations, and immovable property. Mars is afflicted when it 
is associated with Rahu; it then produces unpleasant relations with 
brothers or sisters. 


Jupiter- It is a dignified planet and signifies children, wealth, law, 
religion, bank, companies, air travels, and inheritance in the Birth Chart. 
It becomes afflicted when associated with malefic planets - then it denies 
the birth of son or troubles to children. 


Venus-It is the planet of luxury and materialistic happiness in one’s 
chart. It signifies wife in a man’s chart, love, marriage, passion, partner, 
conveyance, social status, ornaments and pleasures of bed. Venus is 
afflicted when it is associated with malefic. Afflicted Venus signifies 
disturbed married life. 


Saturn- It signifies servant, longevity, delays, prudence, responsibility, 
patience, services, scientists, foresight, and labour. It is not always bad. 
When Saturn is good in a horoscope it makes one famous among people, 
social leaders or reformers. The afflicted Saturn produces delay in matters 
concerned with it. When associated with other planets, it reduces 
happiness in relations signified with that planet. 


Rahu- It signifies paternal grandfather, harsh speech, movements, foreign 
travels, gamble, outcaste and snakes. Rahu as a rule alienates one from 


others. When associated with other planets, it produces separation with 
the relation signified with that planet. 


Ketu- It signifies maternal grandfather, height, sewage, slaughterhouse 
fear, complexes, insanity, fire accidents, occultism, imprisonment, 
lawsuits, smoke, philosophy, detachment and renunciation. 


Table 5. General characteristics of planets 


nt [ena [oni [ cor [ces [Bene 


Gopper Ruby 
North-West) White Pean 
oparkiing red] Caral 

Green Emerald 
Topaz 

Diamond 

Sa Opnire 


Gomed 


Hemaphrodite| North west | Black grey Lahsuniya 


Aspects 


An ‘aspect’ means an angular distance between the planets. This is the 
relative position of the planets in the zodiac by which they exert their 
influence on the other planets simply by illumination. All planets aspect 
their 7th house completely from their own position. Mars, Jupiter and 
Saturn have been assigned 2 additional aspects : 


Sun - 7! 

Moon - 7” 

Mars - 4th 7h and gh 
Mercury - ii 

Jupiter - 5", 7 and 9th 
Venus - 7" 

Saturn - 3th, 74 and 10% 


Rahu - 7” (some people consider 5! and 9" too) 


Ketu - 7" (some people consider 5" and 9* too) 


A planet is considered to be strong when it is in its own sign or in the 
house of great friend’s and generally peaceful when it is in its friend’s 
house. An aspect of the benefic planet makes it more stronger. A strong 
planet is able to produce results whereas a weak planet, is either 
debilitated or in an enemy’s house or hemmed/ aspected by malefics is 
unable to produce its good effect. 


IV. Signs (Rashi) 


Sign is a Latin word which means mark, indication or signal. Similarly in 
Astrology, a sign refers to one of the 1 2 zodiac signs. The zodiacal belt is 
of 360 degrees when divided by 12 zodiac signs. Hence, we calculate 30 
degrees for each sign. Each part of this 30 degree is called as a Sign or 
Rashi. These signs are - Aries, Taurus, Gemini, Cancer, Leo, Virgo, 
Libra, Scorpio, Sagittarius, Capricorn, Aquarius, and Pisces respectively. 


Table 6. Showing Lords and Symbols of Signs 


S.No. | Indian Name English Name | Lordof Sign Senet 


Mesha. Anes 
Vishabha Taurus 
Mithuna Gemini 
Karka Gancer 
oimna Leo 
Kanya Virgo 
Tula Libra 
Viischak Scormio 
Qhanu Sagittarius 
Makar Capricom 
Kumbh Aquarius 
iMeena Pisces 


1 
2 
a 
4 
2 
5 
f 
8 
5 


Tee TTA IMO 


The sign occupied by an ascendant. An Ascendant is importantly 
known as the ascendant sign or lagna rashi. It has lot of influence on 
one’s life. The next important sign in this league is the Moon sign. It is a 
sign where the Moon was present at the time of birth. (Vedic astrologers 
make their general predictions with respect to the moon sign). The 3rd 
important sign is the Sun sign. The rotation of the Earth around the Sun 
once a year causes the Sun to pass through one sign each month. Western 
astrologers generally make the Sun’s sign a basis for these predictions. 
Simply put, the sun sign of a person is the sign wherein the Sun was 
present at the time of birth. The date of passing the Sun through the sign 


is fixed every year. After a year, the Sun passes through the same sign on 
the same date. These dates differ in Vedic astrology and western 
astrology. The difference in dates of both is given in the table below. 


Table 7. Transit of Sun through different Signs 


S.No. | Sign Indian month Indian Date Western Date 


Anes Vaisakha 13 Apr-t4 May | 27 Mar-27 Apr. 
Taunus Jyeshtha 15 May-i4 Jun | 22 Apr-20 May 
Gemini Ashadha 15 Jun-14 Jul 21 May-21 Jun 
ohravana To ful-14 Aug | 22 Jun-22 Jul 
Bhadrapad 15 Aug-15 Sept | 23 Jul-29 Aug 
Ashwin 16 Sept-15 Oct | 24 Aug-23 Sept 
Kartik 16 Oct-14 Nov | 24 Sept-23 Oct. 
Marngshirsha | 15 Nov-i4 Dec | 24 Oct-22 Nov 
Paush 13 Dec-13 Jan | 23 Novw21 Dec. 
Magh 14Jan-1t2 Feb | 22 Dec-21 Jan 
Aquarius Phagun 13 Feb.-12 Mar | 22 Jan-19 Feb 
Pisces Ghaitra 13 Mar-12 Apr |.20 Feb20 Mar. 


1 
2 
a 
4 
2 
5 
f 
48 
g 


Characteristics of Signs 


The 12 signs each of 30-degree extent show different characteristics. 


1. Gender - Odd numbered signs 1, 3, 5, 7, 9 and 11 are all 
male signs. They are malefic in nature. Even numbered signs 
are female signs - 2, 4, 6, 8, 10 and | 2. They are benefic in 
nature. 


2. Mobility - 1, 4, 7 and 10 signs are moveable (char). 2, 5, 8 
and 11 are fix (sthir) signs. 3, 6, 9 and 1 2 have dual 
(dwiswabhava) nature or mixed. They show balance between 
the moveable and fix. 


3. Elements - The signs are divided into 4 elements viz, fire, 
earth, air and water. 


1, 5, and 9 are Fiery in nature 
2, 6 and 10 are Earthy in nature 
3, 7 and 11 are Airy in nature 
4,8 and | 2 are Watery in nature 
4. Direction is represented by the signs: 
East - 1, 5 and 9. 


South - 2, 6 and 10 
West - 3, 7 and 11 
North - 4, 8 and 12 
5. Parts of the body : 
1. Aries - Head 
2. Taurus - Face, throat 
3. Gemini - Arms, shoulders 
4. Cancer - Chest, lungs, heart 
5. Leo - Stomach 
6. Virgo - Waist, intestine 
7. Libra - A Navel and lower abdomen 
8. Scorpio - Private parts 
9. Sagittarius - Thighs 
10. Capricorn - Knees 
11. Aquarius - Legs 1 2. Pisces - Feet 
Some more general characteristics of signs are tabulated in Table 8. 


Table 8. Characteristics of Signs 


Yellow Battlefield 


Forest with water 
workplace 


Houses: The ascendant is the Ist house of the horoscope. The remaining 
houses are filled in anticlockwise pattern. The counting of the house 
starts from ascendant. In Figure 7 the ascendant has number 4 means sign 
cancer is in the ascendant or in the house number. The 2nd house is 
anticlockwise from house number 1 and the number in it is 5 means Leo; 
hence we can say that house number 2 is in sign Leo. 


Figure 7. Horoscope showing houses with signs 


Similarly as we move anti-clockwise we see the number 6 means the sign 
Virgo occupies the 3rd house of the horoscope. By this way the counting 
of houses is done. Houses have been classified into certain groups: 


1. The Kendras - 1, 4, 7 and 10 houses are known as Kendras of the 
horoscope. 


. Panaphara - 2, 5, 8 and 11 houses are known as Panapharas. 

. The Apoklima - 3, 6, 9 and 10 houses are known as Apoklima. 
. The Trikona -1,5 and 9 houses are Trikona. 

. The Upachaya - 3, 6, 10 and 11 houses are Upachayas. 


NA mB W WN 


. The Dusthana - 6, 8 and 10 houses are known as Dusthana or Trika 
houses. 


il 


10. 


11. 


23 


. The Maraka - houses 2 and 7 are known as the Maraka houses. 


. Ist house is also known as Lagna. It signifies the personality of a 


person as a whole. It depicts self-appearance, complexion, 
beginning, nature, shape, height, head, personality. It is the most 
auspicious house of the horoscope as it occupies the Kendra and 
Trikona, which are the most auspicious houses of the horoscope. 


. 2nd house signifies the matter of family concern, wealth, loss or 


gain, gems, education, food, teeth, speech, right eye, memory. It is 
also known as Maraka house so it signifies the death. 


. 3rd house depicts mentality, ability, siblings, valour, will power, 


short journeys, neighbours, communications, shoulders and collar 
bone. 


. 4th house depicts home, mother, atmosphere, happiness, fields, 


education, conveyance, parental property, private affairs. 


. 5th house represents wisdom, progeny, memory, higher education, 


intelligence, spiritual knowledge, riches, love, gambling, arts. 


. 6th house signifies disease, enemies, loan, debts, loss of honour, 


fear, pets, waist, tenant, worries, servants, service, maternal uncles. 


. 7th house represents merits, spouse, business partner, foreign 


travels, honour, death, litigations. It is also known as to be the 
Maraka house of the horoscope. 


. 8th house depicts parents of spouse, longevity, death, inheritance, 


will insurance, accidents, obstacles, worries, delay, defeats, thefts, 
organ of excretion. 


. 9th house signifies father, faith, intelligence, virtuous deeds, 


journey, far sightedness, temple, sacrifice, charity, teacher, 
religion, fate, philosophy, hips and thighs. 


10th house stand for occupation of the person, stars, honour, fame, 
success, promotion, administration, social contacts, responsibilities, 
knee. 


11th house known astobethedhan bhav, signifies source of gains. 
Elder brother, sisters, success in occupation, fulfilment of desires, 
left ear and leg. 


12th house signifies expenditure, sorrows, deceptions, secret, 
knowledge, pleasures of bed, prison, foreign, hospital, problems in 
family, left eye and feet. 


V. Dasha System 


There is a fomous saying, “Nobody gets more than his luck and before 
time’. If there is a promise of good luck in one’s horoscope then most 
important is the fact-when it would fructify. Even the promise in a 
horoscope becomes useless if there is no time for it to be active in time 
when required. For example, if there is a promise of widowhood in a 
woman’s horoscope and it is just after some time of the marriage then it 
is fateful for her, but she may have option of remarriage and if it is after 
20 years then it is not good for her. But if it happens after 50 or 60 years 
of marriage then it is meaningless for her. So you can judge how the 
combinations of horoscope become meaningless without knowledge of 
time. 


To calculate the timing of the event Rishi Parashara has given a tool 
named as dasha - literally means condition of a person at that time. 
Astrologically, it means the time when certain planets are able to produce 
their effect in one’s life. He introduced many dasha systems but 
Vimshottari Dasha System is the one that is commonly used for 
predictions in Vedic Astrology. Vimshottari means 1 20 - a time cycle for 
a period of 1 20 years. It is calculated by the Nakshatra in which the 
Moon was transiting at the time of the birth. 


Nakshatra or birth constellation is very important for calculating not 
only dasha systems but for many predictions as well in one’s life. As we 
have discussed earlier that each nakshatra has a lordship of a planet so the 
major dasha will be of the planet ruling at the time followed by the 
sequence given in the table of Nakshatras. For example, if you were born 
when the Moon was transiting in the sign of Taurus in Rohini Nakshatra, 
then the governing planet of Rohini Nakshatra is Moon - so the important 
period of dasha running from your birth time will be of the Moon 
followed by Mars, Rahu, Jupiter, Saturn, Mercury,Ketu, Venus and Sun 
respectively. The order of the dashas never changes in any horoscope. 
Just the starting point of the dasha gets changed according to the 
Nakshatra of the Moon of the person at that time. 


Each major period of the planet is also called as mahadasha. Its time 
interval varies from planet to planet. 


Table 9. Showing Periods of Dashas 


S.No. Planet Duration of its major period 
(mahadasha} 


1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
f 
8 
oO 


Each major period (Mahadasha) is further divided into subperiod called 
Antardasha. An Antardasha is then further divided into its subperiod 
called pratyantar dasha. Furthermore, it still gets divided into sookshma 
dasha and sookshama dasha is finally divided into prana dasha. In each 
sub period the sequence of periods are the same but becomes shorter than 
its major period. The period of Mahadasha is in years than its sub-period 
the Antardasha would be in months. Likewise the subperiod is reduced to 
days. So the five-fold division of dasha runs at a time. 


If the birth time is 100 percent accurate then there would be no error in 
predicting any event. But in general, one may have variations in his birth 
time in a minute or two for which the prediction may go wrong for the 
time period of the ultimate dasha which is the prana dasha. Hence it is 
better to predict this dasha system until the 2nd level, that is of the 
pratyantar dasha only. The mutual placement of the lords of the 
mahadasha -antardasha-pratyantar dasha and their relation between them 
with respect to their houses when interpreted, helps in making these 
predictions. 


Rishi Parashara had given 54 nakshatras based dasha systems and 45 
Jaimini dasha systems. 


We have already discussed the basic concepts of astrology. Now let us 
summarize those rules with respect to relations. 


As birth chart consists of 1 2 houses and each house represents a 
relation with a person ofthat birth chart. 


The lst house represents the ‘self of the birth chart. Mother is 
represented by the 4th house and father by the 9th house, younger 
brothers/sisters are seen by the 3rd house, while elder brothers/sisters are 
seen by the 11th house. The 7th house is for wife and 5th for the wife and 
children. 


The 2nd relations are connected with the Ist relations, 1.e., maternal 
uncle is seen from the 6th house as it is 3rd from the 4th house-the house 


of mother and 3rd from 4th is brother/sister of mother similarly, younger 
brother/sister is seen through the 3rd from the 3rd house, 1.e., 5th house of 
the birth chart. Confusion may arise as the 5th house 1s also the house of 
children. So how can one house represent two relations ? If this is so then 
how can an event be predicted? HO can one be clear whether-the event is 
with children or with 2nd brother/sister. These confusions can be made 
clear by the significators of relations. Different planets signify different 
relations. 


1. Sun — Father 
2.Moon — Mother 
3. Mars — Brother/Sister 


4. Mercury — Maternal uncle, friends 
5. Jupiter — Children 
6. Venus — Wife/Husband 


7 Saturn — Servants 
8 Rahu — Maternal Grandfather 
9 Ketu — Paternal Grandfather 


Making judgements about the relation, its house, lord and position of 
its significator 1s analysed in the birth chart. Then it is analysed in the 
divisional chart too. 


Malefic influence to a house reduces happiness through that relation. 
Benefic influences quite naturally show harmonious relations. An aspect 
of Jupiter to signification bestows the blessings of that relation. An aspect 
of Jupiter on Mars shows the presence of brother/sisters in one’s life. 


There are more than 2 afflictions that show separation from that 
specific relation : 


Let us analyse the following relations astrologically : 


1. Relation in marriage 

2. Parents-Children relations 
3. Brother/sister relations 

4. Friendship relations 


Chapter 2 


Astrology for a Better Marriage 


We all have a childhood dream that when there is love, everything goes 
like silk, hut the reality is that marriage requires a lot of compromise. 


— Raquel Welch 


When you can accept another person as they are then there is no room for 
worries. Problems arise when we make a frame and try to fit that person 
into it. 

Astrology makes you understand why people are attracted towards 
each other. It also facilitates maintenance of a positive intimate 
relationship between lovers. It helps in identifying the real need through 
processes that analyzes the whole personality. 


You can understand relations and other’s personality and traits in your 
life with the help of astrology. This would make you understand one 
another a lot better. If most of the planets occupy fiery signs, the result is 
a naturally aggressive person. 


Airy signs show intelligence and liking for travelling. The person with 
his Moon in an airy sign will love travelling. A person born with planets 
mostly with a fix sign would be lazy or hate to switchover frequently. 
People with dual signs are mostly seen to be rather confused in selecting 
anything. They are also the ones that are not easily satisfied and seek the 
all superlative qualities in one thing. Relation is judged on the basis of the 
resultant compatibility of signs and planets. 


Astrology can also be applied by matching horoscopes before 
marriage. This is a common practice in India where most marriages are 
arranged by the parents. They 1st match the horoscopes and then proceed 
for other formalities of the marriage. For considering astrological 
matchmaking for a couple it is necessary to get the horoscopes of both. 
Mostly it 1s observed that matching horoscopes is finished with the 
consideration of the Manglik factor and Koota Milan only, which of 
course is not enough. Proper matching of the horoscopes is discussed in 
the next chapter. 


Conjugal happiness depends upon not only the 7th house, as is 
foreseen by most astrologers. The other related houses to see for married 
life are - 


Primarily, the lst house is important as it represents the 
portrayal of a person. 


Then 4th house is considered for domestic happiness and 
comforts. 


5th house for love affair and children. 
7th house is for husband/ wife and their married life. 


12th is for bed comforts. 
In addition to these, the 2nd house is also taken into consideration as it 


represents family and its expansion and in the case of women 8" house is 
also important for her as it is the family of her husband. She has to adjust 
and live with them. So the atmosphere of the family of her husband has 
more effect on her. That is why it is also known as the saubhagya sthaan 
for her. If the family of husband is nice to her then her whole life would 
be spent calmly. 


Planets taken into consideration for married life are: 


Venus- It signifies wife, marriage, sex and love. Jupiter is significator of 
husband, even though Mars is also considered as significator of husband. 
Mars is also looked for marital knot and sex. 

Some general predictions to know about your wife (or husband) 
through your ascendant sign. 


If your ascendant sign (Lagna) is : 


Aries - Your wife would be fair complexioned, beautiful and religious 
too. 


Taurus - Your wife would be educated and may be cruel in nature or 
merciless. 


Gemini - Your wife may have sharp tongue and would enjoy the 
company of men. She may be quarrelsome too. 


Cancer - Your wife may be faithful but short-tempered. She would be 
hard working also. 


Leo - Your wife may be dominant in nature and adamant too. Apart from 
religious mind she would be cruel also. 


Virgo - Your wife would be good in managing household activities. She 
may be selfish and untrustworthy. 


Libra - Your wife may be quarrelsome and greedy in nature. 


Scorpio - Your wife may be from a rich family, beautiful and good in 
managing the house. 


Sagittarius - Your wife may be from good family, money minded, 
intelligent and have good conduct. She may have a habit of worrying for 
small matters. 


Capricorn - Your wife would be beautiful but would change her moods 
very often. 


Aquarius - Y our wife would be beautiful and would like to lead her life in 
her own way. She may be intelligent, shrewd and short-tempered. 


Pisces - Your wife would be beautiful and lucky woman. She would be 
well spoken and intelligent. 


Effects of planets in the 7th house : 


Sun - The sun in the 7th house makes one’s spouse more ambitious and 
short tempered. It indicates unhappy married life till it is aspected by a 
benefic planet. 


Moon - The moon in the 7th house leads to early marriage, bestows 
sociable, beautiful and dutiful wife. If moon is afflicted then your wife 
may be unfaithful. 


Mars - The Mars in the 7th house produces the more desire of sex in 
spouse. Partner may be dominating. Marriage may take place out of caste. 
Mars in 7th is known as Manglik dosha, which is harmful for the life of 
spouse. (This topic is covered in matchmaking of the horoscope) 


Mercury- In the 7th house produces more mental affinity towards the 
partner. Wife would be artistic in nature. Since Mercury is eunuch so it 
does prove to be good for sex life. 


Jupiter - It is a benefic planet. It will bestow beneficial aspect whereever 
itis placed and will reduce any malefic effect. When Jupiter is positioned 
in the 7th house it gives good wife with conjugal happiness. If Jupiter is 
afflicted then there may be early loss of wife. 


Venus - Venus is significator of marriage. But since Rishi Parashara says 
it that ‘karako bhava nashaya’ means when a significator is positioned in 
its own house, it will then destroy significances of that house. As it is a 
benefic planet it will give beautiful wife and romantic passionate life. The 
wife may be rich and intelligent but will not be able to make the person 
happy. 

Saturn - Saturn is also eunuch planet. It is therefore not considered 
auspicious. It brings about a sense oftranqu il ity within the relations of a 
husband and wife. There may also be unusual differences in the age of 
both partners. Either too much or too little in which case the husband is 
younger to his wife. This reduces the pleasure of sex. Alternatively, the 
wife would be sick, dark complexioned but faithful to her husband. 


Rahu - The wife would be wicked and would undermine her husband. 
Ketu - Ketu spoils married life. The shadow is also known akin to a pair 
of scissors slicing the happiness within that house. Ketu is one of the 


reasons of widowerhood. It may also cause loss of wife or she may be 
outspoken. 


Since Venus is the significator of love life and marriage, let us learn 
more about how it affects when it is present in different houses and signs 


Venus in various signs: 


Aries - Venus in Aries makes one an affectionate lover and has relations 
with many women. 


Taurus - Happy married life with beautiful wife. 
Gemini - The person may have more than one affair. Wife would be 
intelligent. Venus in Gemini makes one over sexy. If Venus is afflicted in 


this sign then it may also gives 2nd marriage. 


Cancer - Wife would be emotional, passionate. Here also if Venus is 
afflicted it leads to two marriages. 


Leo - The person would be sincere in his relations. Wife would be from a 
high family. 


Virgo - Successful marriage and love affairs. Generous and beautiful 
wife. 


Scorpio - He may develop relation with women very soon. Wife may be 
quarrelsome. 


Sagittarius - Happy & successfully married. But the person may 
sometimes be out for beautiful women. 


Capricorn - Unsatisfactory love affairs. Marriage would be delayed. Wife 
may be liar. 


Aquarius - Delay in marriage. More inclination towards sex. A clever 
wife with a sense of humanity. 


Pisces - Develop involvements with many women before marriage. But at 
last would lead a happy marriage. Wife would be intelligent and modest. 
Venus in different houses : 


Ist house: Venus is said to be beneficial in the 1 st house as it gives 
beautiful wife. The person would enjoy conjugal bliss. 


2nd house: There may be dissatisfaction in married life. 


3rd house: Wife would be good and the person would enjoy the family 
life. 


4th house: Happy domestic life. 
5th house: Gives love affair and romantic mood to the person. 
6th house: Wife may be sick and women may dislike him. 


7th house: The person may have beautiful and passionate wife. Married 
life would be happy. 


Sth house: Hidden love affairs; wife would be sick; problems in love 
affairs 


9th house: Happy married life; dutiful wife. 
10th house: Happy married life; gains through wife/ women. 
11th house: Passionate wife; gains through wife/women. 


12th house: Unprincipled and fond of sexual pleasures; may have more 
than one woman in his life; wife may be sick. 


(Note: The characteristics given above are not absolute. They are subject 
to modification according to other combinations in one’s horoscope) 


Chapter 3 


Combinations for a Successful Marriage 


Happy marriages begin when we marry the ones we love, and they 
blossom when we love the ones we marry. 


— Tom Mullen 


It is really difficult to talk with surety on what leads to a successful 
marriage. For many when questioned about their married life; they would 
soon reply positively. It is only after constant prodding do they slowly 
express their dissatisfactions. It is really difficult to set the criteria of a 
happy married life or an ideal marriage. So does that means that 
adjustments hold no good? If it is love then adjustments can be done for a 
long period, making a marriage, a happy one. Without love adjustment a 
marriage can’t last long. In this chapter, the meaning of successful 
marriage is one wherein the husband and wife are living together. 


For a successful marriage: 
# The 7th house, its lord, and its si enificator Venus should be 
considered 1st. If they are strong then the person is going to 


have a successful married life certainly. Any of these if having 
relation with 6-8-1 2 houses may lessen the conjugal bliss. 


# Influence of benefic would increase the comforts of married 
life and if malefic aspect or influence any of these then the 
comforts would be decreased. 


# Ascendant lord with or near to 7” lord in a benefic sign. 


# Lord of 2nd and 7th house associated with planet of great 
strength. Jupiter should be strong. 


# Lord of 2nd, 7th and 12th aspected by Jupiter and should be 
in auspicious houses like in Kendra or Trikona of the birth 
chart. These combinations should also be seen through the 7th 
lord and Venus to confirm the event. 


Here are some examples of a successful married life : 


Example I 


Satum Aah 


Horoscope - I 


It is the horoscope of a person said to be not only a successful 
businessman but also happily married. His ascendant has No. 8 in its 
house which means the Ist house is Scorpio whose lord is Mars hence, 
the lord of the Ist house is Mars. It is in the 3rd house in Capricorn. Mars 
is exalted in Capricorn. The 7th house is the house of married life. No. 2 
shows that the sign of Taurus in his 7th house. Its lord is Venus, which is 
placed in the 5th house in Pisces. It is exalted in Pisces. The 7th house 
occupies moon. It is lord of 9th house. Moon 1s exalted in Taurus. 


Ascendant lord Mars is receiving 5th aspect of Jupiter. Venus 1s 7th 
lord as well as the 12th lord. It is receiving the 7th aspect of Jupiter. The 
7th house is also receiving the 9th aspect of Jupiter. Now you can see that 
his 7th house is fully protected by aspect of a benefic planet Jupiter. 
Venus, lord of 2nd and 7th is in trikona of the birth chart. This 
combination is auspicious for married life. The person has a beautiful 
(Moon exalted in the 7th shows a fair beautiful wife) and a learned wife 
who is religious and intelligent. She is helping in his business also. She 
has held the reigns of family with responsibility. 


In the Navamsha Chart - the Ascendant is Capricorn. Saturn and 
Jupiter are placed in the ascendant. Jupiter is debilitated but its 
debilitation loses its strength as it coincides with the Ascendant lord 
Saturn. Jupiter is aspecting the 7th house and 7th lord which makes the 
relationship strong. The 7th lord Moon is aspected by Jupiter and it is free 
from any malefic effect. Venus is in its friendly sign. Ascendant lord and 
7th lord is in 5/9 axis, which is meant to be auspicious. Ascendant lord of 


birth chart is Mars, placed in the 4th house of the navamsha chart. It is 
aspecting the 7th house by its 4th aspect. 7th lord of the birth chart is 
Venus. It is a friendly sign - Aquarius and is in the 2nd house which is the 
house of family, in Navamsha Chart. This depicts that his wife holds an 
important position in his family. It is said that he is very lucky to have a 
wife like that. 


Navamsha chart of Example - 1 


Example IT 


Horoscope - 2 


This is the horoscope of a lady who is said to be very fortunate in her 
married life. Ascendant is Virgo, its lord is Mercury in the 5th house. 
Lord of 7th house is Jupiter which is in the 4th house. The lord of the 4th 
house is Sagittarius. It is also the sign of Jupiter. The 4th house is 
domestic happiness. The concentration of planets is more on the 4th 
house. It is protected by presence of Jupiter. When a lord of house - either 
placed or aspect its own house - then it protects its signification and 
would save that house. Jupiter is lord of 7th and is with Venus which is 
2nd lord -house of family and finances. Venus is the 9th lord too, which 
is house of fortune. Venus is benefic planet too. The 4th house is placed 
by two natural malefics, 1.e., Saturn and Mars. Saturn is 5th lord and 6th 
lord. 5th house is the most auspicious house of a horoscope. It reduces the 
malefic effect of Saturn. Saturn aspects the 6th house which is its own 
house. This simply means that Saturn is providing stamina to her against 
her enemies and diseases. Mars is 8th lord aspecting the 7th house by its 
4th aspect. Connecting the whole combination- 7th lord -husband, 8th 
lord - in laws, 2nd lord - family and 4th house - home, domestic bliss all 
together. She is living in a joint family and enjoying the bliss of a happy 
home. 


Ist and 7th houses are is in Rahu - Ketu axis. Rahu - Ketu are malefic 
planets and separates the signification ofthat house. Here the effect of 
Rahu is shaped in another way. Her husband has to travel for business 
purposes frequently. 


Let us consider its Navamsha Chart too. Its ascendant is Aries, whose 
lord is in the 7th house, with exalted Saturn and 4th lord Moon. Jupiter is 
in ascendant - aspecting the 7th house by its 7th aspect. Jupiter is a 
benefic planet. Its aspect will strengthen the relation. 7th lord is Venus in 
6th house. It is debilitated when it is the sign of the Virgo. But here 
debilitation is cancelled by the presence of Mercury which is exalted in 
Virgo. (This is known as Neech Bhanga Yoga, which means the 
cancellation of debilitation). 


Navamsha chart of Horoscope - 2 


Mercury is ascendant lord of birth chart. It is with Venus in the 6th house. 
It shows that health of the person would suffer frequently. 7th lord of the 
birth chart is Jupiter is in ascendant of Navamsha chart. Mars is aspecting 
its own house. It is with exalted Saturn. The concentration of planets is 


mostly on 7'h house. This shows the importance of the relation in one’s 
life. The effect of malefic planets are reduced by the presence of benefic 
aspect. 


It is thus necessary to analyze the horoscope deeply to judge the effect 
of combination. 


Chapter 4 


Combination that Lead to Divorce 


A divorce is like an amputation; yousurvive, hut theresless o/you. 
— Margaret A twood 


Divorce hurts not only the spouse who’s left behind but also even the 
spouse who’s proceeding to leave. Many people who have gone through 
divorce feel like ripping away from themselves. It is not easy to describe 
the pain. In the beginning of a relationship they were thrilled and shared 
intimacy. But later, both developed adverse feelings for each other. It is 
like betrayal. Both the partners are hurt. Earlier it was difficult for them 
to breathe but after a divorce, nothing but a dull ache is all that is left 
behind. 


Astrological combinations for divorce : 


# The 7th house, its lord and significator Venus influenced by 
malefic 


# The influence of separative planets like Saturn, Rahu- Ketu 
or afflicted Sun. 


# Divorce is evident when there is combination of 7th -4th - 
and 6th houses, whether through the aspect among their lords, 
by position or by conjunction. 


# 7th lord in the 8th house also shows loss of wife. 
# Affliction to the 4th house. 


# Ascendant lord and 7th lord in 6/8 or 2/1 2 in position to each 
other. 


Lord of Lagna and Lord of 7th are placed in 2/1 2 or 6/8 in 
position. 

# Venus in Ardra, Moola, Krittika or Jyeshtha Nakshatra. 

# These combinations are seen through Venus and the 7th lord 
to confirm the prediction. 


Let us see some examples of horoscopes analyzed astrologically to 
confirm the combinations of divorce. 


Example II 


This is the horoscope of a female born in a rich family. She had never 
seen any problem in her life. Her marriage was arranged to a good 
looking and well-settled boy. He stayed abroad for some time and was 
supposed to take his wife too. He left his wife just after 1 5 days of her 
marriage and never came back. Later on it was known that he was living 
with some other woman in the same city and did not want to live with his 
wife. Ultimately the divorced was filed and was soon materialised. 
Astrological combinations in this horoscope are - Ascendant is Gemini 
and its lord is Mercury. It is in the 6th house with 3rd lord Sun and 7th 
lord Jupiter. Mercury is aspected by the 8th lord Saturn. The 6th house is 
house of diseases, enemies and loan, etc. Here the 1st lord and 7th lord in 
6th house is a combination of legal séparation, i.e., divorce. Mercury is 
the 4th lord too. 4th house is the house of domestic bliss. 4th house is 
placed with Moon. Moon is 2nd lord, and the 2nd house is in Rahu Ketu 
axis. The 4th house is aspected by Mars which is 6th lord. So all 
combinations are concentrated on 6th house - the house of a court case. 
The 7th house is placed with Venus. Although Venus is significator of 
love and marriage; but according to Rishi Parashar, ‘Karko Bhava 
Nashaye’ means significator when present in its own house will destroy 
its significance. Venus is twelfth lord too- showing loss of marriage. A 
combination of the 4th lord - 6th house with 7th lord confirms a divorce. 


Mercury Sun 


Horoscope of Example - 3 


Her Navamsha Chart had an Aquarius ascendant. Its lord is Saturn is in 
the 2nd house with debilitiated Mercury. The 7th lord is Sun is with 
Jupiter. Ascendant lord and 7th lord is in 2/1 2 axis. Ascendant lord of 
birth chart is Mercury which is debilitated in the Navamsha Chart. 7th 
lord of birth chart is Jupiter which is with Sun - a cruel planet. Mercury 
and Jupiter are in 2/1 2 axis.Venus in navamsha chart is in Rahu Ketu 
axis. Rahu Ketu axis is separative in result. Venus is also aspected by 
Mars by its 4th aspect. Hence Venus in this axis is afflicted here and 
separated the significance of it, which in this case is her husband. It is 
observed that if there are 3 afflictions; in such a case the aspect of Jupiter 
becomes ineffective. 


Example IV 


This horoscope is of a man who divorced his wife after 20 years of 
marriage. There was nothing serious in their marriage except that they 
both egoistic. Moreover, their misunderstanding increased when their 
younger daughter died of illness. His wife wanted attention and help at 
the time of stress but he could not spare time, things got worse and led to 
a divorce. All of this is pretty much evident from the horoscope. The 
ascendant is Libra and its lord is Venus. Venus is the significator of love 
and marriage. It is in the 2nd house in Rahu- Ketu axis. Venus being with 
malefics amounts to reduced love and sympathy in the person. The 7th 
house occupies Aries and its lord is Mars. It is placed in the Ist house 
aspecting its own house. But it is placed with the 6th lord Jupiter and with 
12th lord Mercury. Venus is afflicted with Rahu-Ketu in the 2nd house. 
And the 4th lord is Saturn, aspecting the 7th house. So the 7th house is 
getting no protection except Jupiter, which is a natural benefic, but in this 
horoscope it is not providing protection being the lord of 6th. Note that 
the special combination - that of the Ascendant lord and 7th lord are in 
2/1 2 in position with each other. This position is known as a position of 
mental tensions and losses which again show separation. 


Mercury 
Jupiter 
Mars 


Horoscope - 4 


In the Navamsha Chart, Ascendant is Sagittarius with Mercury and 
Jupiter in it. Jupiter is the Ascendant lord and Mercury is the 7th lord. 
This strengthens the relation. (Even after divorce they ask each other’s 
welfare). The ascendant lord of the birth chart is Venus and 7th lord of 
birth chart is Mars - they both are in 6/8 axis in navamsha chart which 
surmounts quarrels and animosity. Venus is also afflicted here as it is in 
Rahu Ketu axis and with Sun. The question here is that if these were the 
combinations, why did they not show their result before and now after 20 
years of marriage, the resultant is a divorce. In this horoscope there were 
combinations to support the marriage and there were combinations of 
separation both. Here comes the role of Dasa, which gives you the time of 
event. The combination in the horoscope will show their effect only when 
their Dasa arrives. The person has Moon in the sign Aquarius in 
Nakshatra of Satbhisha. Refer to the table of nakshatra you will come to 
know that lord of Satbhisha Nakshatra is Rahu. He was born under the 
Mahadasha of Rahu which was followed by Jupiter and then Saturn. 
Mahadasha of Mercury comes at the age of 45. During this period the 
friction between both increased and get separated in dasha of Mercury 
and antardasha of Ketu. Mercury the 12th lord and Ketu is famous as 
scissors, efficient in breaking up relations. If there are 3 or more than 3 
afflictions in a certain house then the event is certainly going to happen. 


It just waits for the right moment to occur, 1.e., the appropriate dasha to 
fructify the results. 


Mercury 
Jupiter 


Sup 
Yenus Rahu 


Navamsha Chart of Example - 4 


Example V 


This is the horoscope of a woman who was also divorced after 20 
years of marriage. Actually she never led a contented married life. Both 
partners were arrogant and quarrelsome. As it generally happens in India, 
whether the marriage works out or not it is very difficult for a couple to 
go to court and get a divorce. Both were adjusting in one way or the 
other, trying to drag their married life but failed. Just analyse the 
horoscope with the point of view of her married life. The ascendant of 
this horoscope is Capricorn and its lord is Saturn, is placed in the 11th 
house. The 7th house has a sign Cancer in it whose lord is in the Ist 
house. 7th house is occupied by the Sun - the 8th lord. The 8th house is 
occupied by the 6th lord Mercury. In this horoscope also you can see the 
combination of 6th- 7th- 8th lords. The 4th house is domestic bliss. Its 
sign is Aries and its lord Mars is present in its own house. Mars in this 
horoscope 1s afflicted as it is with Rahu - Ketu axis and its other house is 
Scorpio in which Saturn is placed, which is a natural malefic planet. Mars 
is aspected by Jupiter but here it is lord of twelfth and 3rd house. Jupiter 


is afflicted here, forming Guru- Chandal yoga (this yoga is formed when 


Jupiter is in Rahu-Ketu axis with Mars). Mars in the A‘h house shows that 
the woman is Manglik. (while her husband was not). It is said that Saturn 
in Scorpio makes one daring and if afflicted then notorious too. Here 
Saturn is aspected by Mars. Saturn is lord of ascendant as well as the lord 
of 2nd house too which is the house of speech. This woman is known to 
have a bad tongue. Venus, a significator of love and marriage is lord of 
5th and 10th houses. This is placed in the 6th house. Its 5th house is 
aspected by Saturn and the 10th house is already associated with 
malefics. Hence Venus is also not supportive in this horoscope. So you 
can clearly see that 7'» house, 7th lord and si enificator Venus is afflicted. 
Benefic Jupiter is also helpless and association of 6-7-8 houses led to 
divorce. 


dupiter 


Mars Hetu 


Horoscope of Example - 5 


Navamsha Chart has Gemini ascendant. Its lord is Mercury is in 2nd 
house with debilitated Mars. 7th lord is Jupiter is in the 5th house in Rahu 
Ketu axis. Venus is exalted in 10th house. This has supported the 
marriage but not for long. 


Ascendant lord of birth chart is Saturn which is in Aquarius of 
Navamsha Chart. It is aspected by afflicted Jupiter and debilitated Mars. 


Here Jupiter is vargottama means a situation when a planet occupies the 
same sign in birth chart and in Navamsha Chart. This is then known as 
vargottama; the vargottama planet gets its strength that is equivalent to 
the exalted planet. 7th lord of birth chart is Moon which is in Aries of 
Navamsha Chart. It is afflicted as it is in Rahu Ketu axis and aspected by 
Saturn. This aspect is good for marriage as Saturn is ascendant lord of 
birth chart and Moon is 7th lord of birth chart. This is supportive to the 
marital relation. In this chart you can see that the afflictions are more than 
the supporting factor in marriage. Even the support is afflicted here. It is 
due to this parent support that the marriage was going on; though with 
some problems. But ultimately gave way. 


Mars Mercury 


Jupiter 7 ‘s 
Raku nt 


Navamsha chart of Example - 5 


Then again the question of time. Why did it lead to a divorce after 20 
years of marriage? For that we have to analyse the Dasha. Her moon was 
in the Nakshatra of Sravan in the Ist charan. Hence she got the 
mahadasha of Moon at the time of her birth. Her problems became 
unbearable when the mahadasha of Jupiter arrived. As already discussed, 
Jupiter is not favourable for this horoscope. Jupiter is known to be as the 
most benefic planet for any horoscope but for Capricorn ascendant it is 
not. It is lord of twelfth. By observing the degrees of Jupiter it was seen 
that Jupiter has just changed its sign and has longitude of zero degree. It 


is a rule that any planet which has just entered a sign or is just leaving 
any sign means if it is at 0 degree in a sign or at 29 degree in a sign then 
it is said in rashyanta - meaning in the end of a sign. That planet in its 
dasha is known to cause trouble. 


Chapter 5 


Combinations Leading to Unhappy/Marriage 


Marriages are made in heaven. But, again, so are thunder, lightning, 
tornados and hail. 


— Unknown 


In many cases it is seen that couples living together lead a stressed, 
unhappy married life. This is mostly seen in the cases where one partner 
is dependant on the other financially (this is observed in India where 
wives are supposed to take care of family - rather than pursue a career) or 
partners are compromising for the sake of children. Sometimes it 1s seen 
that they both have love for each other but they are different on their 
mental planes. A psychological approach thus becomes imperative for 
such marital relations as the mental condition and attitude can also mar 
the happiness of married life. 


Astrologically, it is observed that if the afflictions are less, then the 
marriage may face some problems (these problems can be further reduced 
by a good horoscope matching with the partner) if there are more than 
three afflictions with the related combination, then a separation is 
indicated. The aspect of Jupiter on the concerned affliction gives strength 
to the relationship and would support it. Hence then the marriage life 
would go on but with troubles and unhappiness. Conditions that lead to 
an unhappy married life are: 


# Mars or Saturn in Sagittarius or Pisces aspected by Jupiter. 
Venus is bereft of strength. 


# 7th lord in association with 8" lord or house. 


# If 7th house occupies Venus in Scorpio or Jupiter in 
Capricorn. 


# Moon and Venus together aspected by Saturn and Mars. 


# Rahu with Venus shows that one’s affection lies somewhere 
else. 


# Moon with Rahu gives rise to an unpredictable mood, which 
mar matrimonial happiness. 


# Rahu with Sun arise complex of disparity of status. 


# Rahu with Mars gives rigid attitude which hurt the feelings. 


# Navamsha chart should also be considered. 


All these combinations will not show their effect on surface unless the 
7th house is clean or aspected by benefic. In a nutshell, if the effect of 
malefics are less in the chart on the 7th house, and the 7th house is well 
protected by benefic, then married life will not be broken but will 
continue with some problems. If the natal chart has affliction in the 7th 
house but the Navamsha Chart does not and the 7th house is protected, 
then too there would be no separation but it may mar marital happiness. 


The examples of unhappy married life are: 


Example VI 


This is the horoscope of a man who is the only son in his family and 
living with his parents. He has a beautiful but quarrelsome wife. Once 
aggressive, she doesn’t care much for anything. The ascendant here is 
Virgo, its lord is Mercury. It is in the 6th house with Sun. The ascendant 
and 7th house is in Rahu-Ketu axis. As discussed earlier, Rahu-Ketu are 
malefic planets. The 7th house has a sign Pisces whose lord 1s Jupiter. It 
is in the 3rd house. Jupiter is aspected by Mars. Mars is the planet of 
ageression. This combination shows the aggressiveness of his wife. 
Venus - the significator of love and marriage is in 7th house in the Rahu 
Ketu axis. The significator in its own house would not show any result. 
Venus here is exalted and depicts that the wife would be beautiful. The 
7th house is receiving aspect of Jupiter, giving support to its own house. 
Here Jupiter acts like a saving factor for his marriage. Even though the 
marriage is saved, the person faces troubles and unhappiness through his 
quarrelsome wife. The lord of 2nd house in 7th place shows the family 
ties of the wife. [f there is any relation of 2nd house and the 7th house the 
wife would fulfill the responsibility of a family life. This in turn 
strengthens the married relation. 


Jupiter § 


Horoscope - 6 


Navamsha Chart has the Pisces ascendant. Its lord is Jupiter in the 7th 
house. 7th lord is Mercury in the 12th house. 


Jupiter 


Navamsha chart of Example - 6 


Jupiter is aspecting the ascendant, thus protecting the ascendant as well as 
the 7th house. Venus is in the 5th house within the Saturn and Rahu-Ketu 
axis. It does not have a good position. Mercury is the ascendant lord of 
the birth chart and Jupiter is the 7th lord. They both are in 6/8 axis in 
Navamsha chart. Jupiter is also aspected by Saturn by its 3rd aspect from 
the 5th house of Navamsha Chart. Saturn is the 5th lord of the Birth Chart 
thus representing love and the results of karmas of previous birth too. 
Venus is also afflicted. But since Jupiter is in the 7th house thus the 
supporting ascendant and 7th house too gives strength to the relation. 
Even though there are afflictions the marriage still slugs along because of 
Jupiter and also because the Dasha of marital discord planets has not 
fructified. 


Example VII 


This is the horoscope of a lady who is leading a very unhappy 
married life. She went against her father’s wish and married this person 
who was a drug addict. He used to earn nothing, even when he tried all 
his might he was unable to do any job. The only happiness that came her 
way was the birth of a son after 14 years of marriage and after countless 


prayers and wishes. The attitude of her husband sadly never changed. His 
condition deteriorated day after day. He started stealing things. A case 
was filed against him for theft. She did everything in her might to 
improve him; all in vain. Every treatment she tried failed. She cannot 
leave her husband and go to her parents’ house because she had defied 
her parents’ and brothers already. Neither can she live alone with her son 
as her husband would never let her go off easily. Her horoscope revealed 
unhappiness in her marriage life. 


Ascendant is Capricorn - its lord is in the 12th house. The 7th house is 
Cancer whose lord is Moon. Moon 1s in the 9th house in Rahu Ketu axis. 
Moon is afflicted. It is receiving aspect of Saturn. Ascendant lord 
aspecting the 7th lord shows the attachment of lady with her husband. 


af J upiter 
8 Mercury 


Horoscope - 7 


The 7th house is receiving the aspect of Jupiter which is the 12th lord. 
There is a benefic aspect with combination of malefic aspects too. The 
aspect of Jupiter always gives wisdom and generosity. This aspect gave 
her generosity towards her husband and never let others know about his 
behaviour. In spite of her grief she stuck to her marriage because of 
Jupiter - which is providing her the patience to maintain her married life. 
If you look at the combination of Moon with Rahu that gives it an 
unpredictable mood marring matrimonial happiness. There is an 


exchange of Sun and Venus in 8th and 10th house. This is known as 
dainya parivartan yoga; wherein the person is persistently troubled by his 
opponents and suffers due to ill health. Venus is significator of love and 
has been exchanged with the Sun that too is debliltated. Hence the 
exchange is malefic and reduces marital happiness. The 4th house is the 
receiving aspect of 2 cruel planets - Mars and Sun; depicting a disturbed 
domestic life. The 3rd house of brothers and sisters is afflicted by 
presence of Ketu that shows no support from her siblings. The sun is the 
significator of a father - which is again debilitated and is in conjunction 
with Mars, thereby offering no help from her father. 


In Navamsha Chart the ascendant lord placed is Venus in the 7th 
house. The 7th lord is Mars in the 9th house. Mars on the other hand 1s 
exalted in Capricorn. It is placed with the 4th lord, Sun. It is good 
combination for married life. But this is due to malefic planets and is 
devoid of any benefic aspect, thus marital discord is not as evident though 
it predicts a tough marriage. The 5th lord Mercury is aspected by Saturn 
by its 3rd aspect showing delay in 1 st progeny. It also shows no love in 
their married life as the 5th house is also the house of love and its lord 
Mercury is a eununch planet. It is aspected by Saturn, also a eunuch 
planet thus showing the cold behaviour of the partner. Mars aspects the 
4th house by its 8th aspect. It is with the 4th lord, Mercury. Mercury lies 
in the 4th house which is actually the lord of the 2nd house. So a 
combination of the 2nd, 4th and 7th house shows support to married life. 


Jupiter Ketu 


Navamsha chart of Horoscope No.7 


Ascendant lord of birth chart is Saturn, in the 2nd house and aspected 
by Jupiter by its 9th aspect. The 7th lord of the birth chart is the moon 
placed in the 10th house. The moon here lies in Aquarius - that is ruled 
by Saturn; It is also aspected by Jupiter by its 5th aspect. So here, Jupiter 
supports the married life of the lady. 


Even though her marriage life is full of troubles she still survives 
because of many supportive combinations that are in store to save her 
matriage. 


Chapter 6 


Combination for More then One Marriage 


Marriage is the triumph oi imagination over intelligence. 2nd marriage is 
the triumph oihope over experience. 


— Oscar Wilde 


# Count the number of planets associated with 2nd and 7th 
lord. It will predict the number of women or partners in one’s 
life. Some of these examples are: 


# Venus in dual sign. 7th lord strong. 

# Malefics in 4th, 8th and 12th houses from Venus 
# Several planets in 7th without 2nd lord. 

 Rahu in the 7th house and Saturn in the 2nd house. 


# The relation between the 7th and 11th lord by position, 
aspect or conjunction. 


# Moon and Mars in 7th house. 


# 7th lord in ascendant. Ascendant lord in 8th house or 12th 
house indicates remarriage. 8th lord in 5th house, Moon placed 
in 7th from Venus, and Mercury placed 7th from Moon. 


$ If strong Mars is present in 7th house aspected by 7th lord. 


# Malefic planets present in 7th or 2nd house and their lords 
are weak in strength. 


# Malefic planets present in 7th or 8th houses and Mars in the 
12th house then the person may marry again after the death of 
his 1 st wife. 


The person may also have two wives if there are malefics in 
7th or 11 th house and 1 st lord in the 12th house. 


# Mars in 7th house and Saturn in 8th house then the person 
may marry again after the loss of his | st wife. 


# If the 7th house is occupied by 2 eunuch planets, viz., 
Mercury and Saturn and 2 malefics then also the person may 
have two wives. 


# Ascendant lord and 7th lord together indicates that the person 
may have 2 wives out of which the | st wife would belong to a 
good family. 


Moon and Saturn together in 11th house. 


# Malefics in 1st, 2nd or 7th house and the 7th lord is 
debilitated or combust. 


# Malefics in 2nd house and 7th house associated by malefics 
and Ketu in 6th house. 


Example VIII 


Satum Kety 


Jupiter fi > 


Horoscope - 8 


This horoscope clearly shows the combination of more than 1 
marriage. This person has been married thrice. The ascendant is 
Sagittarius. Its lord is Jupiter in the 3rd house. The 7th lord Mercury is 
with Sun in the 9th house aspected by Jupiter shows inclination to get a 
life partner (He didn’t lose hope for a good partner even after his 2nd 
marriage broke). The 7th house is placed with a moon and Mars conjunct 
which is well known combination for money and to multiply the 


signification of that house. Venus is in dual sign and is debilitated. As it 
is already given in the combination above that if Ascendant lord and 7th 
lord are together indicates that the person may have 2 wives out of which 
his 1 st wife would belong to a good family. Here in this horoscope there 
is relation of ascendant lord and 7th lord by aspect. His 1 st wife 
belonged to a good family. The 1 st marriage is seen from 7th house. 
Moon and Mars in 7th house, showed the tough relations in his Ist 
marriage. Mars shows the fiery temperament of his Ist wife. She was non 
cooperative and demanding. He divorced his 1 st wife and went abroad. 
The 2nd wife is seen through the 11 th house whose lord Venus is 
debilitated (neecha). The 2nd wife was from the family related to illegal 
activities. He got afraid of them and ran away. The 3rd wife is seen 
through fourth house whose lord is Jupiter aspected by the 7th lord 
Mercury. Fourth house is aspected by the 2nd lord Saturn by its 3rd 
aspect. 2nd house is family of a person. Hence one can safely say that his 
3rd marriage is better than the earlier 2. 


Example IX 


This is the horoscope of a very intelligent person who married thrice. 
Lets analyze the promise of marriage in his horoscope. The 1st house 
is occupied by 4 planets with the 7th lord mercury in it. The Ist and the 
7th houses are in Rahu-Ketu axis. Venus is exalted in the 1 st house. This 
combination shows that the person will have many wives. Also count the 
number of planets associated with the Ist and 7th lord predicts the 
number of wives in one’s life. The other combination of multiple 
marriage also applies here that Rahu in 7th and Saturn in 2nd. 


Satum Mars Mercury 


Yenus 
Ketu 
Jupiter 


Horoscope - 9 


The Ist wife is seen through the 7th house. Its lord is Mercury and is 
an ascendant with the Rahu Ketu axis. Mercury is debilitated in this 
horoscope cancelled by the presence of an exalted Venus in the same 
house - this is known as neechbhanga means cancellation of debilitation. 
It is in the Nakshatra of Saturn. Whenever Saturn is related to the 7th 
house it indicates unusual age difference between husband and wife. His 
lst wife was very much elder to him. Due to some biological reasons he 
left her. Astrologically, the 7th house has Rahu which shows separation 
from his Ist wife. The 2nd wife is seen from the 11th house. The 11th 
lord is Saturn which is debilitated in the 2nd house with Mars in its own 
sign. The 2nd house is the family. The 11th lord in the 2nd house means 
that the 2nd wife is close to his family. His 2nd wife took care of the 
elders of the family. He married for the 3rd time for the sake of money 
and brought home his 3rd wife. He introduced his 2nd wife as a relative 
who was just taking care of the people old persons in the house. (If the 
2nd house is in influenced with malefics then the person is a liar). The 
fourth house is the house of the 3rd wife. It is aspected by Saturn. The 3rd 
wife was much younger to him. Later on when she came to know the 
truth she left him. The fourth lord is again Mercury with exalted Venus 
and in Rahu Ketu axis. Then this person returned to his 2nd wife. As it is 
said earlier, the 2nd house is the house of family and the 11th house is 


that of the 2nd wife. The 2nd wife would hold the responsibility of the 
family and she is also a part of in the family. But 2nd house has 2 
malefics - debilitated Saturn and Mars. This depicts problems in 
signification of the 2nd house as well as with the 2nd wife. Mars here is 
in its own sign Aries hence it will protect the relation as much as 
possible. Hence the relationship with the 2nd wife will remain firm. 


Chapter 7 


Extramarital Relationships 


The combinations of extramarital relations and multiple marriages are 
almost similar. Just as marriage is solemnised by the priest, so is the 
connection of the 9th house considered important with respect to either 
position, aspect, conjunction or with nakshatras. 


# When Venus is in 8th house or 12th house it can be easily 
predicted that the person may have extramarital affairs. 


# Since the 8th house is the house of hidden affairs and Venus 
the symbol of love affairs; in the 8th house it shows hidden 
affairs. 


# Rahu in 10 or 11 house or Venus in a movable sign aspected 
by a malefic. 


# 5th house is the house of love, 7th of partner, 8th house is of 
hidden things and the 12 is pleasures of bed any connection 
among these would predict the extramarital affair. 


# 12th house is the house of luxuries and bed pleasures. If the 
12th house is strong then the person has tendency to attract the 
opposite sex easily 


# Venus with malefic in Gemini, Sagittarius or Pisces. 

Strong Venus with Moon conjunct. 

# 7th house with many planets. 

# If there is Gemini, Virgo, Capricorn or Aquarius in the 7th 


house and their lord afflicted. 


If any of these combinations has relations with the 2nd lord or house 
then the affair may culminate into marriage. 


The influence of Rahu shows an affair with the person of another caste. 


The influence of Mars is devoid of any benefic influence which may 
create a scandal. 


Combination of 5th lord / house with 10th lord / house shows an affair 
at the office or workplace. 


Influence of moon shows strong mental attraction towards a beloved. 
Influence of ascendant lord shows strong physical attraction towards a 


beloved. 


Ascendant sign/lord, moon or Venus if all three are in dual signs; 7th 
lord strong show flotation nature of a person. 


Example X 


Let us consider the horoscope of the person who himself admits that 
he has an inclination towards other women and wanted to improve 
but couldn’t. (Was he true to himself ?) 


The ascendant is Gemini - It’s lord is Mercury. It is in the 7th house. 
Where the ascendant lord is placed shows the inclination of person to the 
signification of that house. His inclination is mostly towards the opposite 
sex. The 7th lord is Jupiter placed in the 3d house. It is aspecting its own 
house by its 5th aspect, so married life is not in trouble. Venus is in the 
8th house shows extramarital affairs. Venus is aspected by Mars also - 
there may be problems in his married life due to other women but it 
would not break because the 7th house is well protected by the aspect of 
its own lord Jupiter, which is a benefic too. Venus is in movable sign 
aspected by a malefic planet Mars. The 5th lord in the 8th house shows 
hidden affairs. The 5th house is house of love and 8th house is hidden 
affairs. The 12th house is for sexual pleasures. Venus is lord of these 2 
and is in the 8th house. All these combinations lead to extramarital affairs 
of the man. 


Saium Fahey 


Horoscope- 10 


Example XI 


This is the horoscope of a woman whose marriage was broken 
because of her extramarital affair. Again you can see the combination 
of 5-7-8-12 houses, i.e., 5th lord Mars is in 12th house aspecting the 7th 
house, 8th lord Moon in 7th house aspected by 5th lord showed the 
hidden affair affecting married life. Venus is moving aspected by Saturn. 
Rahu is in 11th house. The 7th lord aspecting the 7th house gives strength 
to her married life. Thus she was married after a divorce. Note that 
Jupiter would not let things go wrong socially. If the 7th house is 
aspected by Jupiter then the person is afraid of society. As in Example - 
10, the aspect of Jupiter did not allow the person publicize his relations 
and break his married life. But in this example the 7th house is aspected 
by Mars which gives courage and it is devoid of any benefic aspect like 
that of Jupiter which could give wisdom to her to differentiate between 
the wrong and the right. 


Sun Mars 


Jupiter 


Horoscope - I1 


Example XII 


Jupiter 
— if 


Horoscope - 12 


This is the horoscope of a man who had numerous extramarital 
affairs in his life. His latest affair entrapped him in scandal that the 
whole world came to know. He is the US President Bill Clinton. He had 
an affair not only with Monica Lewinsky but also with Gennifer Flowers, 
Paula Jones, Kathleen Willey and numerous other women. All these 
women came into limelight when Monica’s case was produced publicly. 
Astrologically you see that ascendant lord is Mercury in 11th house with 
Saturn. 7th house has a sign of Pisces whose lord is Jupiter in the 2nd 
house. It has been discussed earlier that the relation of 2nd and 7th gives 
strength to married life. It was well known he had affairs despite his 
married life and the marriage didn’t break up although it was a bitter 
setback Hillary. The ascendant is occupied with Venus - significator of 
love and marriage. Venus is debilitated with Mars. Mars is the 8th lord. 
Lord of hidden affairs with Venus- Hidden love affairs. Venus and Mars 
both aspected by Saturn. Moon is in the 8th house. 8th house is aspected 
by Mars by its 8th aspect and Saturn by its 10th aspect. Saturn is the 5th 
lord - lord of love affairs. Moon is mental inclination. His inclination for 
falling for other women is clear here. Mars shows explosion and Saturn 
shows conspiracy; the 8th house refers to hidden affairs. Here Mars is not 
read as explosion but scandals as it is with debilitated Venus. So his 
affairs embroiled him in scandals. 


Chapter 8 


Love Marriages 


Married love between man and woman is bigger than oaths guarded by 
right of nature. 


— Aeschylus 


Earlier cases of love marriage was uncommon. It was considered a crime 
in society. Things are different today. Times have changed now specially 
in metropolitan cities, but villages and/or narrow minded societies people 
still object to love marriages. The 5th house is the house of love affairs or 
intimate relations and the 7th house is of spouse. If there is any relation 
within the lords of these 2 either by position, aspect or conjunction then 
love marriage is predicted. 


# Moon and Venus are in 7th house. 


# The 7th lord stronger than the ascendant lord and Jupiter 
afflicted. 


# If there is a combination of 5 and 7 houses as described 
above in association with Rahu, and the fourth house shows 
that the person may run away from home to marry his own 
choice. 


# Any malefic planet such as Saturn, Mars or Rahu Ketu in 9th 
house and afflicted Jupiter. 


Venus in 7th aspected by a malefic planet. 

# Influence of Rahu in 7th house. 

# Ascendant lord with 7th lord either in Kendra or trikona. 
# Moon lies with 7th lord in Kendra or trikona. 


Example XIII 


Jupiter 
Ftahu 


Mars 


Horoscope- 13 


The ascendant is Gemini and its lord is Mercury in the 7th house. This 
shows strong attraction towards his partner. The 7th lord is Jupiter in the 
5th house - house of love affairs. It is in the Rahu-Ketu axis that depicts 
courage to go against ethics of society. The 7th house is occupied by the 
3rd and 4th lord. The 4th house is for domestic affairs- the marriage took 
place with consent of members of the family. Venus is lord of 5th and 
significator of love in 8th house shows hidden affair. This affair is 
aspected by Saturn which is 9th lord. The 9th house also depicts religious 
activities. Hence this affair was solemnised with religious rituals. 


Example XIV 


This is also an example of a love marriage with the consent of the 
parents. The ascendant is Leo and its lord in the 12th house. Ascendant 
is occupied with Mars - lord of 4th and 9th house, Mercury - lord of 2nd 
and 11th house, and with Venus - lord of 3rd and 10th. The 5th lord is 
Jupiter and the 7th lord is Saturn. Jupiter is in the 2nd house whose lord is 
Mercury and Saturn is in the 4th house whose lord is Mars. Mercury and 
Mars are both together placed in the 1st house with Venus and aspecting 
the 7th house. 


Jupiter 


Horoscope- 14 


Example XV 


This is an example of a girl who went against her parents and 
married a boy of her own choice. 


Jupiter 


Mars Moon 


Horoscope- 15 


The Ascendant is Leo and its lord is Sun in the 4th house. 7th house is 
Aquarius whose lord is Saturn in the 4th house. Sun and Saturn is in Rahu 
Ketu axis. This shows that she would run away from her house to marry. 


Venus is in its own sign Libra in the 3rd house. This is aspected by 9th 
and 4th lord. Mars is the lord of auspicious houses. Her married life will 
go peacefully. 


Chapter 9 


Intercaste Marriages 


Mostly intercaste marriages are love marriages. Today even in this 
modern era, people fix marriages within their castes only. Even they at 
times cannot get a suitable match. It needs great courage to go against the 
society. For an inter-caste marriage, Rahu is considered because it 
represents an outsider/other caste. 


# Rahu is associated with 7th house or 7th lord shows 
intercaste marriage. 


# The 9th house is considered for religious beliefs. The 9th 
house should also be under the influence of a malefic sign to 
defy the religious backgrounds of the society. Any malefic in 
9th gives courage to oppose the religious merits by the person. 


Some other combinations for inter-caste marriage are : 


# Moon and Mars should be 6/8 in position with respect to 
each other. 


# Mars and Venus should be in 12th house or in trikona. 
# Venus and Rahu in 6th house or in 11th house. 


# 7th house or lord in relation with Rahu either with position 
aspect or in the Nakshatra of Rahu. 


Example XVI 


Venus Mars 
Mercury 
5 


Satum @ >< dupiter 


Horoscope- 16 


This is the horoscope of a lady who is a Hindu and is married to a 
Christian. Ascendant is Virgo whose lord is Mercury in 12th house. 
Mercury is with Venus and Mars. It shows strong attraction towards 
partner. The 7th lord is Jupiter in | st house thus aspecting its own house 
by 7th aspect. Her parents were against this marriage. The boy asked her 
to elope and go for a court marriage; but she refused and told her parents. 
She waited for years for the consent of her parents. Finally her parents 
agreed and she was married to the man of her choice. Jupiter in the 
ascendant gives patience to maintain the honour of her family. The 9th 
house is the house for religious activities and of the father. It is receiving 
the 9th aspect of Jupiter thus providing strength to her religious ethics 
and loyalty towards her father. As the 9th house is the house of the father. 
But how did she go against the rules of the society to marry a boy of 
another caste, is seen by the combination of inter-caste marriage narrated 
above. Note that moon and Mars are present in 6/8 position to each other. 
The other combination which confirms intercaste marriage is the presence 
of Mars and Venus in the 12th house. 


Example XVII 


In Example - 17, a Punjabi boy married a girl of Bihar who was a 
divorcee and had a son. The whole family was against this marriage. 
The ascendant is Aries. Its lord is Mars in Virgo is in the 6th house. The 
7th house is placed with Mercury, Jupiter, and Sun. The position of the 
5th lord in the 7th house shows marriage of one’s own choice - love 
marriage. Venus in the 8th house again showing a hidden affair. He did 
not expose his affair publicly. The 5th and 10th lord are related to each 
other by aspect that depicts he would find his love at his workplace. For 
the Aries Lagna or for the Aquarius Lagna when Jupiter is in the 7th 
house then an intercaste marriage is predicted. The 5th lord is in 7th 
house and 5th house in Rahu-Ketu axis. Rahu is the significator of 
outsider so his wife didn’t belong to his caste. 


7 
Jupiter 
Mereury 

Sun 


Horoscope - 17 


Example XVII 


This is not an example of any inter-caste marriage but a marriage in 
the 1st relations of a rigid Brahmin family. It is totally banned in a 
pandit family to marry the daughter of a mother’s brother. 


Horoscope has the Capricorn sign in the ascendant. The lord of the 
ascendant is Saturn which is placed in the 5th house with Venus and 
Mars. This combination show courage to defy for love and presence of 


ascendant lord gives strength to this combination. The 7th house is in the 
Rahu-Ketu axis and the 9th lord is debilitated in the 3rd house indicating 
that the person is able to break the rules of his religion. Mars and Venus 
in true form again strengthen the possibility of breaking the rules of 
society regarding marriage. Furthermore moon - the 7th lord is in the 
Nakshatra of Rahu. 


If there are 3 or more than 3 combination then the event is going to 
happen. Repetition confirms the prediction to happen in one’s life. 


Jupiter 


g 


Yenus | 
Satum 2 
Mars 


Horoscope- 18 


Chapter 10 


Combinations Leading to Widowhood 


There is no lonelier man in death except the suicide, that that man has 
lived many years with a good wile and then outlived her. If two people 
love each other there can be no happy end to it. 


— Ernest Hemingway 


The 8th house is known as the house of good luck for women. In India, 
the good luck of a girl is determined by the family in which she is going 
to be the member of after marriage; the family of her husband and in- 
laws. Since it is the 2nd from the 7th house, the age of the husband is also 
considered from this house. 


If both these things are good in her life, she is known to be lucky in her 
life and considered fortunate. 


$ If the 8th house is afflicted by a malefic planet or if the 8th 
lord is with malefic planets then it shows the problem with her 
husband’s health or even death of her husband. 


# If 7th lord is in the 8th house or 8th lord in 7th house or any 
relation between the 7th or 8th houses indicates widowhood. 
These combinations should be considered with the Moon and 
Venus too. 


# If there are 2 malefic planets or aspects of 2 malefic planets 
on the 7th house from the moon, an afflicted Rahu in Aries or 
Scorpio in the 8th house or even in the 12th house. 


# 6th lord and 8th lord in the 6th house or 12th house is also a 
possibility. The afflicted Moon in 6th or 8th house. 

The most important factor in widowhood is that when a combination 
fructifies. If it happens just after marriage then it would be more 
significant. If it happens to be in old age then these combinations are of 
no importance. 

Dasha of the 2nd house, 7th house, 8th house, or the 12th house or 
planets associated with them are of equal importance. The Transit should 
also support these events. 


Example XIX 


This is the horoscope of a wife of a famous personality. Her husband 


died in an air crash. 


Sun Jupiter 


Horoscope- 19 


In this horoscope the Ascendant is Cancer, its lord Moon is in the 10th 
house. The 7th lord is Saturn which is in the 5th house with Rahu- Ketu. 
Saturn is afflicted here. There is no benefic aspect or support to Saturn, 
Saturn is the 8th lord too. The 8th house is placed by Mars which is 5th 
lord. This exchange is not good as this exchange is with the 8th house 
thus reducing the auspicious effects of the 5th house. The 8th house is 
aspected by Sun which is a cruel planet. The Sun is with Jupiter but here 
Jupiter is the 6th lord too. Hence there are 3 afflictions to the 8th house 
and the 7th house is also afflicted by the 2 malefics. Ist it is receiving the 
3rd aspect of Saturn and Mars which is in retrograded motion thus 
effecting its previous house which is also the 7th house. Venus is in the 
12th house. So this horoscope is not getting any support for the life of the 
husband. 


In Navamsha Chart ascendant lord is Mars is in 8th house with cruel 
planet Sun. Sun and Mars both are fiery planets. 


6 Jupiter 


Moon Ketu — Sun Mars 


Navamsha Chart of Example - 19 


The 8th house belongs to the longevity of the husband and happiness in 
the husband’s family. Both were affected in this case. 7th lord Venus is in 
the 7th house. Again it is the rule of ‘karko bhava nashaye’ applied here. 
Venus is aspected by Saturn by its 10th aspect. It is also receiving the 9th 
aspect of Jupiter, which in turn is under the influence of Mars. The 8th 
house is Gemini, whose lord is in the 4th house. It is aspected by Saturn. 
Hence Navamsha Chart is also not supporting life of the husband as 8th 
house and its lord is devoid of any benefic influence. 

Ascendant lord of birth chart is Moon in the 6th house in Rahu Ketu 
axis. The 7th lord Saturn is in the house of its enemy Sun which is in the 
8th house with Mars. Saturn and Moon are in 6/8 axis. Hence Saturn and 
Moon are not in a good position to support married life. 

Her phase was under the Dasha of Venus-Mercury when her husband 
died. Venus is in the 12th house and Mercury the 12th lord. Venus is the 
significator of marriage. It confirms the combinations given above. 


Example XX 


This is the horoscope of a lady whose husband expired after seven 
years of her marriage. The horoscope has a Taurus ascendant, its lord is 


in 9th house aspected by exalted Jupiter from 3rd house. The 7th house is 
that of Scorpio whose lord is Mars in the 5th house with Moon. Mars is 
aspecting the 8th house. The 8th house is occupied by Sun and Mercury. 
Sun is a cruel planet. The 8th house is also aspected by Saturn by its 1 
Oth aspect. Hence the 8th house is receiving aspect of 2 malefics -Saturn 
and Mars. One cruel planet, the Sun is positioned in here. It is the 
longevity of husband which is seen effected here. 


Jupiter 4 


Horoscope - 20 


This combination is confirmed better by Navamsha Chart in which 
debilitated Mars is present in ascendant with Saturn which 1s the lord of 
7th and 8th lord. The 12th lord Mercury is also present along with them. 
Venus is in the 7th house. It is aspected by the 2 malefics, Saturn and 
Mars. The 8th house is aspected by Mars shows problem in the 
significations of 8th house. After the death of her husband her share was 
possessed by her husband’s brothers. Her domestic happiness was 
shattered. In Navamsha Chart, the 4th house is afflicted by the presence 
of the Rahu-Ketu axis. In the birth horoscope also, the 4th lord Sun is in 
the 8th house aspected by Mars and Saturn. Her domestic bliss is effected 
after the death of her husband. 


In Navamsha-7th house is aspected by its own lord Saturn which is 
with Mars. Venus is placed in the 7th house ‘karko bhava nashaye.’ The 


8th house belongs to the longevity of the husband whose lord is Saturn in 
ascendant with Mars. Mars in turn is aspecting the 8th house. No benefic 
aspect on the 8th house thus reducing the longevity of the husband. 


Jupiter 
Sun 


Navamsha Chart of Example - 20 


Chapter 11 


Combinations Leadings to Widowerhood 


# Sun placed in the Virgo ascendant and Saturn in the 7th 
house in Pisces. 


# Mars in 6th house, Rahu in 7th and Saturn in 8th. 
# Malefics in 2nd house and 7th house. 
# Rahu in 7th aspected by 2 malefic planets. 


# 2nd and 7th lord afflicted in 6th house or in 8th house or 12th 
house. 


# Afflicted Jupiter and Venus in 7th house. 


# 5th lord is placed in the 7th house and the 7th house and 7th 
lord ultimately get afflicted. It shows that the separation or 
death of the wife due to their children. If the 7th lord is afflicted 
in the 9th house, then the cause of separation would be the 
father and if the 7th lord is afflicted in the 1st house, then the 
cause of separation would be the person himself. 


# Afflicted Venus or Venus hemmed in malefics - malefic 
planets on either houses of the house where Venus is placed 
coupled with malefic planets placed in the 4th house or 8th 
house or even the 12th house from Venus. 


# 7th house afflicted and Venus in dual sign, 1.e., 3-6-9-12 
(Gemini- Virgo-Sagittarius-Pisces). 

# Consider these combinations through 2nd house and Venus 
also. 


If any of these combinations is present in the horoscope then Dasha of 
Venus may prove harmful to the wife’s health. 


Example XXI 


Jupiter 


Horoscope-21 


The wife of this man died after 11/2 years of marriage. Ascendant is 
Aquarius and its lord Saturn is in 5th house in Rahu-Ketu axis. The 7th 
house is Leo. Its lord is in 6th house with 5th and 8th lord. The 5th house 
already has two malefics and the 8th house is known to be an 
inauspicious house as it is bad for longevity of the partner. Venus is in the 
7th house, which is not considered good. According to Rishi Parashar - 
Karako Bhava Nashaye - significator if present in its own house will 
destroy its significance. Moreover, the 7th lord is in the 6th house with 
Mercury. Mercury is malefic here as it is the lord of the 5th and the 8th 
house. Since the 5th house is an auspicious house of the horoscope, here 
it gets afflicted by the presence of Saturn and Rahu-Ketu. The 7th lord is 
also receiving the 4th aspect of Mars from the 3rd house. Hence the 7th 
lord is not happily placed and association of 8th lord. Moreover the 7th 
lord in the 6th house shows loss of wife due to disease. His wife suffered 
from blood cancer and it was detected after a year of marriage; she died 
within 6 months. 


Ascendant lord Mercury is in 3rd house in the Rahu-Ketu axis aspected 
by Sun, Mars and the Jupiter-malefic influence is more than the benefic 
one. 7th lord is Jupiter is in 11th house. The 7th house is placed with 
Saturn, Moon and Venus, aspected by Mars. Venus in 7th house is 
afflicted. 


Navamsha Chart of Example No. 21 


The ascendant lord of birth chart is Saturn, which lies in the 7th house. 
7th lord is Sun in the Rahu-Ketu axis. So the loss of wife is certain in this 
case. 


Chapter 12 


Combinations of Denial of Marriages 


Things when done at a proper time are useful, else they lose their 
importance. Similarly, marriage conducted at a proper age is better off 
than one conducted at a later stage. Sometimes the delay may be denial 
too. Saturn is a slow moving planet. Wherever it is present or aspects it 
may slacken the speed or delay the process. Its presence or aspect on the 
7th house or lord may delay the marriage and when there is influence of 
any other malefic planet then there may be further delay or sometimes 
denial of the marriage. Some other combinations of denial of marriage 
are: 


# Influence of malefics on 7th house or lord or Venus. 
# Venus hemmed in malefic planets or combust. 


Saturn in the 5th or 7th house without any benefic influence 
on it. 


# Sagittarius ascendant with Mercury placed in it. 
# Moon - Venus afflicted by Saturn and Mars. 
# Rahu in the 7th house with malefic planets. 


# 2nd house and 7th house and their lord under the influence of 
retrograded planets. 


# Ist house and 7th house and their lord in a fix sign and moon 
in a movable sign. 


Example XXII 


This is the horoscope of a girl who is unmarried at the age of 42. 
Despite an exhaustive search for a groom, her parents could not get 
any suitable match for her. 


The ascendant is an Aquarius and its lord Saturn is in 12th house. 
Saturn is in the Rahu-Ketu axis. 


The 7th house is occupied by Moon and Mars and these 2 planets are 
very close to each other and are rashyanta, i.e., they both have zero 
degrees and have just entered the 7th house. The 7th lord is the Sun 
which is also at zero degrees and is in conjunction with Mercury which is 


the 8th lord. The 8th house is the house of obstacles so every time they go 
for negotiations, it fails. 


They have tried lot of remedies. Even a Kaal Sarpa Pooja was 
recommended to them. (Kaal Sarpa dosha is said when all planets are 
within the limits of Rahu-Ketu axis but in this horoscope Jupiter has 
crossed the house of Ketu so this horoscope doesn’t have any kaal sarpa 
dosha). But as the problem is with the planets associated with the 7th 
house, the marriage cannot take place. There is a repetition of 
combinations. All 3 planets are at zero degree. 


Satum  Ketu — 


sun 


Jupiter g Mercury 


Horoscope - 22 


Signifier of love Venus is in 9th house. It is aspected by Jupiter as well 
as by Saturn. Again Saturn delays the event. So here delay was so much 
that it succumbed to be a denial. 


Navamsha chart is also considered for further confirmation. The 
ascendant lord is Mars with Venus which is the 7th lord. Although this 
combination is considered good for marriages here are 2 malefic planets 
Sun and Mars with Venus. Again Moon and Mars are aspecting the 7th 
house. The position of Venus is deteriorated than the position in the birth 
chart. There is no benefic influence on the 7th house. The 8th house is the 
receiving aspect of Saturn and Mars both hence spoiling the Saubhagya 


Sthan. Jupiter, a natural benefic planet is also debilitated. So no support is 
seen in the case of marriage in this chart too. 


Sun Moon 
Mars Venus 


Jupiter 


Navamsha Chart of Example - 22 


Example XXII 


This horoscope is very unique. Any person who has seen only the 
birth chart may predict that it is a very promising horoscope but it is 
not so in this case. Despite 3 exalted planets present in the horoscope the 
person not suffers through extreme financial crisis it is also likely that he 
will not able to get married. In his birth chart his lagna has exalted Saturn 
and the 7th lord has exalted the Sun but both are cruel planets. (Malefic 
planets when they have the strength they are able to produce results more 
effectively). The 7th lord is in the 8th house and the 8th lord is in the 6th 
house, 1.e., Venus is exalted in the 6th house. The strong planets or lords 
related to 6-8-1 2 are not considered auspicious. 


Jupiter 
3 Ketu 


Horoscope - 23 


As strong planets of bad houses they are able to produce bad results. 3 
afflictions are enough to destroy the fructification of the signification 
ofthat house. 


Jupiter 


Mars 


Navamsha Chart of Horoscope - 23 


It is further confirmed by the Navamsha Chart that all planets are not 
supportive. The ascendant is Pisces whose lord is Jupiter in the 4th house 
with Mars. The 7th house of Navamsha Chart is Virgo whose lord is 
Mercury afflicted with Rahu-Ketu along with Venus-significator of 
marriage. The 7th house is aspected by Mars from the 4th house. Saturn 
is also aspecting Venus and Mercury. 

The ascendant lord of birth chart is Venus which is afflicted in the 
Navamsha Chart. Mars is the 7th lord of the birth chart which is in the 4th 
house of the Navamsha Chart. Mars and Venus are in 6/8 axis in the 
Navamsha Chart. 

So the Navamsha Chart too is not too supportive. It 1s thus seen that the 
person is devoid of marital happiness. 


Chapter 13 


Miscellaneous 


It is general curiosity of every girl to know about her in-laws, 1.e., to 
know about her husband’s family or perhaps the family she is going to 
spend the rest of her lifetime. It is indeed of great concern for the girl ina 
country like India where she is bound by societal rules to make several 
sacrifices in making her in-laws happy. 


For a woman, the house of husband’s family is the house of her in- 
laws, i.e., the 8th house is the house of her in-laws. Any involvement of 
malefic planet in the 8th house would reduce the happiness in her in- 
laws’ house. Brother/sister-in-law are considered from the 9th house of 
the horoscope. 


Example XXIV 


Let us see an example of a beautiful girl who was happy until 15 days 
of her marriage. It was the bad luck that seeped in when her elder 
sister in-law’s a baby girl passed away. It was more so as the little 
girl was loved dearly by all. Everybody blamed the new bride. She 
was mentally harassed and physically tortured. She asked helped from her 
parents but her parents flatly denied, saying that if an elder girl comes 
back to her father’s family, nobody would marry her younger sisters. She 
was forced to bear all the suffering. When she was blessed with a child, 
she offered her child to her mother-in-law but was refused without 
apology. They were ruthless. 


Sun . 
Mercury 7 Jupiter 
Hoon f 


Venus Ketu 


Horoscope of Example - 24 


Astrologically her ascendant was in Gemini and its lord is Mercury in 
the 5th house with debilitated Sun and Moon. The 7th house is aspected 
by Mars. So 7th house which is the house of marriage is afflicted. The 4th 
house which is sukh sthan (house of domestic happiness) 1s afflicted by 
Mars and the lord of the 4th house, 1.e., Mercury again, is afflicted. Moon 
is quite close to Ketu by degrees. Ketu being the pair of scissors with the 
Moon; the lord of the 2nd house. It depicts that the family is not 
supportive to her. Venus with Ketu in the 6th house aspected by the 
malefic Saturn; also the 8th lord, shows the differences created between 
husband and wife due to her in-laws. The 5th house is the house of love. 
It is afflicted. She is devoid of the love of her husband and his family. 


Jupiter 17 


Navamsha Chart of Horoscope - 24 


In the Navamsha Chart, the 7th house is afflicted along with Venus. 
There is no benefic influence on the 7th house. Venus is the lord of 8th 
house, akin to the in-laws’ house of the girl. It is also under affliction. 
The events are confirmed in this horoscope. 


Astrological Myths : 


About Mangal Dosha 


Mostly people think that the Manglik factor is dangerous but it is not 
so. There are 12 houses in a horoscope and if Mars is in the Ist, 2nd, 4th, 
7th, 8th and 12th house then is said to be Mangal dosha. So out of 1 2 
houses there are 6 houses where the position of Mars is said to cause 
Manglik factor. Hence the ratio of Manglik and non-Manglik is 50 : 50. 


Actually Mars is a planet that makes an individual boisterous by 
nature. It gives tha native a dominating, aggressive and quarrelsome 
nature. When its aspects are present in the 7th house it brings about a 
quarrel between the husband and wife. It is planet of over-sex drive also. 
All these factors amount to a disposition that leaves little room for peace 
in married life. This notion that if there is a Mangal Dosha in a horoscope 
then the partner will die, is absolutely non-acceptable. It happens in that 


case where Mars is heavily afflicted and there are more than 2 afflictions 
to the 7th house. 


According to some astrologers Mars becomes powerless after the age 
of 28 years. This is one reason why some astrologers ask parents to wait 
until the completion of 28years for the native who seeks to marry. 
Logically though, this is nothing but wishful thinking. Mars will show its 
effect in its period/subperiod. 


The best way to reduce the Mars Dosha is to match the horoscope of 
both partners. Mars in the same position will reduce the Dosha but not 
certainly nullify it. 


At most times it is seen if a boy has Mangal Dosha and girl is also 
having Mangal Dosha in her horoscope then the cancellation of Mangal 
Dosha is judged without consideration of the houses in which Mars is 
present. Actually it is observed that the mere presence of the Mangal 
Dosha in both horoscopes would not reduce the effect of Mangal dosha. 
Mars should be in the same house of both the partners, e.g., If a boy has 
Mars in his 4th house then girl should also have the Mars in her 4th 
house. 


The effect of Mars is different in different houses and in different signs. 


# Mars in Ist house makes one bold, aggressive and 
dominating. The person would be short tempered. He would 
have nature of tiding over critical periods with tensions. Rash 
tendency is commonly seen among the persons having Mars in 
their 1st house. 


# Mars in 2nd house gives a sharp tongue. The person may not 
have control over his tongue and the condition may worsen if 
he is in anger. He may speak at any extent without 
consideration which may lead him to loss financially and 
socially. Mars aspects the 8th house from here so it also affects 
the family and age of spouse. 


# 4th house is the house of comforts and happiness. Besides 
reducing the factors of 4th house Mars also reduces happiness 
in marital relation as it aspects the 7th house by its 4th aspect. It 
causes unrest in the domestic happiness. It may arouse jealousy 
with brothers/sisters which may be due to wife/husband. 


# In the 7th house the presence of Mars is worse than its 
aspect. It gives rise to violence in marital life. There would be 
mismatch in emotional and sexual needs of the partners. In 
some cases it may also cause inter-caste marriages. 


# Mars in 8th house shows short life of the spouse. Since it is 
the family of the husband, it may show disturbances in the 


family of the spouse. It will reduce the happiness of the girl in 
her in-laws’ house. Afflicted Mars shows an extravagant 
partner. The 8th house is the house of hidden matters. Mars in 
8th house shows the involvement of the spouse in hidden 
matters, which when resurfaces may create troubles. 


# The 12th house is a house for losses and bad pleasures. In 
marital life, partners may not be compatible to each other in 
this respect therebycausing disharmony. 


According to some astrologers an exalted Mars or Mars in its own 
house or a benefic Mars does not produce any Mars Dosha. In fact this 
does not occur at all. Mars shows its effect in any manner. The strength 
of the Mars should be considered while observing Mars Dosha. 


As it is said earlier that out of twelve houses if Mars is present in 6 
houses then it is Mars dosha so you can find many people suffering with 
this dosha. Mars does not affect every one in much the same way. People 
however, think that Mars dosha untimely means an accidental death of 
the partner. This usually happens when Mars is afflicted, not otherwise. 


The effect of Mars in married life is reduced by appropriate and 
respective matching of the horoscopes of the boy and girl. It would not 
cancel violent effect of Mars completely but may reduce its effect to 
some extent. 


If Venus and Moon are in 2nd house or even one of them is present in the 
2nd house then also it is said that the effect of Mars is reduced to some 
extent. It has also been seen that this factor does not count in every case. 


e Aspect of Jupiter on Mars or 7th house: Jupiter is planet 
of wisdom and righteousness. So it may reduce dosha to 
the extent that the problem may persist in the life but the 
matter would remain in the four walls of house. If there 
are more than two afflictions then Jupiter would also 
prove not to be supportive to that extent. 


e It is also said that if Saturn is present in the house of the 
partner’s horoscope where Mars is present then also it 
reduces the Mars Dosha. But actually it is also to less 


extent. 
° If Rahu and Mars are conjunct. 
° If Mars is the owner of the same house 1.e., if Mars is 


placed in Aries or Scorpio Ascendant or if Mars is placed 
in the signs of Taurus or Cancer in the 7th house. 


All these combinations may reduce the affliction to some extent but could 


not nullify it. 
Actual reduction of affliction can be done by the factors that: 


1. Matching of the horoscopes of boy and girl with respect to the 
placement of Mars according to Ascendant, Moon and Venus 
respectively. The placement of Mars should be similar in both 
horoscopes. If Mars is present in the fourth house of the boy then it 
should also be present in the fourth house of the girl too. For 
example, this is the case of a man and his wife where both were 
Manglik but he was Manglik of 12th house and his wife was 
having Mars in the 8th house of her horoscope. Presence of Mars 
dosha was observed in both the horoscopes but of different houses. 
But it could not reduce the effect. He was killed in an air accident 
after few years of his marriage. 


2. While matching the compatibilities of the horoscopes has the Mars 
Factor and Koota Milan; these are not sufficient. 1st the longevity 
factor of both horoscopes should be considered. If there is no 
longevity in either charts then it should not be considered even 
though the horoscopes are matching on other accounts. 


3. The next factor considered in the matching is to consider the 
strength of Venus as it is the significator of love and marriage life. 
Similarly the strength of 7th and 8th house should also be 
considered. 


4. The 3rd factor taken into consideration is sama sandhi, 1.e., the 
dasha of boy and the girl should not be same. If it happens then the 
boy’s dasha should precede the girl’s dasha. That is why the 
minimum age difference between a girl and boy should be of 6 
months. This sama sandhi dosha can cause misery and separation. 
If the horoscopes promises a long life and lots of happiness, it 
should be dispensed with. 


5. The 4th factor is Bal-Balika Dosha. According to this factor - The 
presence of any malefic planet 1.e. Sun, Mars, Rahu-Ketu and 
Saturn in 1 st, 2nd, 4th, 7th, 8th and 12th house from Ascendant, 
Moon and Venus. It is counted in both the horoscopes. The boy’s 
horoscope should exceed in numbers than the girl’s horoscope. 


6. The 5th factor is Koota Milan in which Gunas are matched on the 
basis of birth constellation of the boy and the girl. There are gunas 
means the points which covers aspects of married life. These gunas 
are: Varna, Vashya, Tara, Yoni, Graha Maitri, Gana Maitri, Rashi, 
Nadi, Rajju, Mahendra Koota, Stree deergha koota, Vedha koota 
and Tatwa. Out of these thirteen gunas, the importance is given to 
the Ist 8t gunas and there are some points assigned to them. The 
table of points are seen in every panchang or almanac (The book 


for easy reference to know the astronomical position of stars with 
respect to Astrology). The maximum points calculated are 36 in 
each birth constellation. The minimum points to be matched in the 
horoscopes are 18. If matching of horoscopes shows 18 to 21 
points, then it is considered as medium matching, 21 to 31 is 
known as to be best matching areas, while 30 and over 30 points 
matched are considered to be excellent one. There is a catch here, 
despite a high score, there may be ego clashes between both 
partners. 


Although 8 gunas are preferred while matching horoscopes but other 
five gunas should also be considered as well. 


If the birth horoscopes are not available then the Ist letter of the name 
is considered and matched under varga koota guna. 


Some astrological ready reckoners for married life are : 


1. The birth constellations are grouped in 5 categories :- 
I. Ashwini, Ardra, Poorva Phalguni, Vishakha and Uttara Ashadha. 
II. Bharani, Punarvasu, Uttar Phalguni, Anuradha and Sravana. 
I. Krittika, Pushya, Hasta, Jyeshtha, Dhanishtha. 
IV. Rohini, Aslesha, Chitra, Moola and Satbhisha. 


V. Mrigshira, Magha, Swati, Revati, Poorva Ashadha, Poorva 
Bhadrapad and Uttara Bhadrapad. 


If the birth constellations of the boy and the girl fall in the same category 
then the marriage is said to be successful and with good luck. 


2. If the boy’s ascendant is 7th from the girl’s ascendant then 
there would be strong physical attraction between them. 


3. If the boy’s moon sign is 7th from the moon sign of the girl 
then there would be strong mental attraction. 


4. If the boy’s sun sign is 7th from the sun sign of the girl then 
there would be the deep attraction of the soul and spirituality 
between them. 


5. If malefics are present in the house where Venus is present in 
the horoscope of partner’s horoscope then there is possibility of 
a separation. 


6. It is observed that marriages that take place after so many 
negations and hurdles thus bringing one to consider that birth, 
death and marriages are totally in control of fate. You need ot 
simply look for any connection between the 5th house and the 
9th house of partners. If they are in relation with each other in 
any form as in position, aspect or conjunction, then it is due to 


the karma of previous birth they are together by the fate in their 
current birth. (The 5th house incidentally is the house of the 
karmas committed in the past life and the 9th house is the fate 
of this birth). 


Chapter 14 


Parents—Children Relationship 


Families with babies and families without babies are sorry for each 
other. 


— Edgar Watson Howe 


It is true that families without babies have only one problem that they 
have no child but families with children have lots of problems. It is a 
famous saying that ‘aulad na ho to ek dukh, ho kar mar jaye to sau dukh 
aur agar aulad bigadi ho to dukhon ka ant hi nahin.’ This means if a 
person has no child then it is only a one point of grief for him, if the 
couple has a child and unfortunately passes way, then the grief is 
manifold. But should the couple have a child and the child is a terrible 
brat, then the list of grief is endless for both parents. 


Astrology here helps a lot in understanding the relationship between a 
parent and a child. You can very well understand the nature and 
behaviour of your children and can mould them with the help of 
astrology. 


The 5th house in the horoscope is for children and Jupiter is the 
significator of children. The relation of 5th lord with the house tells you 
the relation of children with you. If the 5th lord is exalted and in happy 
condition then the children will do much better than the parents. 


If the 5th lord is friendly with the ascendant lord and is in good 
strength then the children will be favourable to the person. 


If the Sth lord/house is having association of Jupiter then also the 
children will be good to the person. 


Father - Son Relationship 


When a son is born in a family then father’s shoulders get upright, so it 
has been observed in most Indian families. This is so as sons are given 
the power, as it were akin to the father. A son grows up in the shade of 
his father. He is expected to support the family and business as his father 
does. So when he enters his family business the other people see an 
impression of his father in him. But many a times it is seen that the 
relation of father and son are strained. Children mostly fight for their 
individuality. Sometimes their arrogance and misbehaviour creates a gap 
between them. It is important that the gap is filled otherwise with time it 
gets widened and there is no going back; even though they love each 


other. 


Astrologically the father is seen by the 9th house and the significator of 
father is the Sun. 


The Ist child is seen by the 5th house and the significator is Jupiter. 


The divisional chart considered for children is saptamsha and for parents 
is dwadashamsa. 


# Son would be affectionate to the person if the sign of 
ascendant of son falls in 2nd, 9th or 11th house of the father. 
The same should be looked by father’s horoscope too. 


¢ The son may be cause of grief if its birth constellation 
(nakshatra) is the lord of the 12th house from the Moon sign. 


# The son may pose as an enemy to his father if there is any 
connection of 5th lord/house with the 6th lord/house either with 
position, aspect or conjunct. It may also be seen that 6th house 
is the house of disease also. In that case it is seen carefully that 
either the son would be an enemy or would be ill. It should be 
further seen through Navamsha and Saptamsha Chart. This 
should also be confirmed with respect to significator Jupiter 
too. 


# If there is any relation with the 12th house of father or son or 
vice versa then it may be the cause of loss to father. 


# If the lord of ascendant and the Sth lord is 6/8 in position 
then there would be no happiness from children. There would 
be disagreement in the views of both. 


4 If they are in 2/12 in position then also the children will give 
less happiness to the person. It is seen that in these cases 
children may cause to spend more on them. Because the 12th 
house is the house of expenditure. If it is 5/9 in position then it 
is known as to be the most auspicious to each other. 


# 7/7 position gives attachment to the relation of father and 
son. if the ascendant lord and the 5th lord are in kendra to each 
other then also the father and son share a relation in which they 
complement each other. 


Let us consider some examples : 


Example XXV 


It is the example of a person who has 4 children-3 daughters and a 
son. The Ist daughter died of an accident and the 2nd daughter was 


married to her brother-in-law, where her condition was not good. 


Mars Ketu 


5 


Sun 
Jupiter 
Venus 


Horoscope - 25 


The 3rd son was obedient. The 4th is his daughter who is unmarried 
and he is unable to get a good groom for her. The Ist child is seen 
from the 5th house whereas the 2nd child is seen from the 3rd of 5th, 1.e., 
7th house. The 3rd child, 3rd from 7th, i.e., 9th house and thus successive 
3rd house tells about the next child. The 5th house is Aquarius whose 
lord is Saturn in the 3rd house aspected by Mars. Mars again is with 
Ketu. Ketu is also known as similar effect as Mars which 1s why it is also 
known as Kujavat Ketu. So the killer effect of Mars has increased. As it is 
aspecting the 5th lord his 1st daughter may face a fire accident. Jupiter 
the significator of children is combust. His 2nd daughter is also unhappy. 
Mars is again aspecting the 7th house the house of 2nd progeny. But here 
it is the own house of Mars. A planet where aspect is in its own house 
will always protect it. Hence the girl is alive but as Mars is a malefic 
planet - it reduced the happiness of that girl. The 9th lord Mercury is 
better than the Sth house and 7th house. His son is with him and is 
obedient to his parents too. The 11th house again as Mercury in it. Its lord 
is Sun which is in the 10th house. Sun has got its directional strength in 
the 10th house. Sun is with the ascendant lord Venus. Sun is the 
dispositor of Mercury which is 9th lord and the Sun is lord of 11th house 


too. So both children are with him and happy, except that the youngest 
girl is unmarried. But she is leading a luxurious life and has no grudges. 


Mercury 4 


Jupiter 


Navamsha Chart of Example - 25 


The events are confirmed through Navamsha Chart and Saptamsha 
Chart too. In the Navamsha Chart the ascendant lord is Venus in the 4th 
house and 5th lord is Mercury. 


The ascendant lord of birth chart is Venus too. The Sth lord of birth 
chart is Saturn which with Sun and Rahu in the 7th house of navamsha 
chart. The 5th house is also aspected by Mars showing loss of his child. 
The troubles of 2nd from the 7th house is seen as it is afflicted here. The 
3rd and 4th child from 9th and 11th respectively. The troubles are clearly 
seen. In Saptamsha Chart ascendant has 2 fiery planets - Sun and Mars. 
Sun 1s exalted and Mars in its own house depicts that the person will 
enjoy his fatherhood but troubles are seen through this chart. Saptamsha 
chart clearly shows troubles to his children 


Ascendant is placed with 2 fiery planets - Sun which is exalted and 
Mars which is in its own house, thus both of them are strong. Sun being 
5th lord showed fire accident of his Ist child. The 2nd child is seen 
through 7th house. It is showing malefic effect depicts troubles to his 2nd 
daughter but since its lord is strong so the daughter is alive but with 


troubles. Son is seen through 9th house is in Rahu-Ketu axis -He wants to 
leave his father but his father is against his wish. Relation between the 
two are amicable. The fourth child, his daughter is seen through 11 th 
house in which Venus is in friendly house. She is happy but not married. 
Jupiter is in its own sign in the 12th house. Moon in 7th house shows that 
the number of girls would be more than boys. 


Jupiter 
at: 


Saptamsha Chart of Example - 25 


The ascendant lord of birth chart is Venus is in good position in 
Saptamsha chart and is aspecting 5th house, and Mercury the 5th lord of 
birth chart is aspecting ascendant of the Saptamsha Chart. This position 
tells that the horoscope is promising for children. The position of each 
child is then seen through Saptamsha Chart. 


Example XXVI 


It is horoscope of a father who has 2 sons. Both sons are obedient and 
take care of their parents as expected in Indian families. The 5th 
house is Taurus which is aspected by ascendant lord Saturn which shows 
the concentration and love of father with his children. The 5th house is 
aspected by its own lord Venus and by its significator Jupiter. The 5th 
house, its lord and significator are well-placed and hence showing the 
well-settled and obedient children in his life. 7th house is aspected by 
Mercury. 7th lord is in Rahu-Ketu axis. His 2nd son has been posted 
abroad. 7th house is also aspected by Jupiter. Hence his 2nd son is also 


good for him. 


_ Mars Satum 
~ 11 


Moon Ket 


Horoscope - 26 


In the Navamsha Chart, the ascendant is Gemini and Jupiter is placed 
in it. It is aspecting the 5th house thereby strengthening the relation of 
father and son. The Sth lord is Saturn, with the Sun in the 9th house and 
is aspected by Jupiter. Sun is the significator of the father. The ascendant 
lord of the birth chart is Saturn, it is the 5th lord of the Navamsha Chart. 
The 5th lord of the birth chart is Venus, aspecting the 5th house of 
Navamsha Chart. Navamsha chart is showing strong good relations of 
father and son. Let us see these relations through Saptamsha Chart too. 


Dreshkana Chart of Example - 26 


In the Saptamsha Chart ascendant is Aries whose lord Mars is in the 
7th house 5th house is aspected by Saturn - ascendant lord of birth chart. 
5th lord Venus is in the 7th house. Ascendant lord and 5th lord together 
conjunct in the 7th house gives strength to have a progeny to a person. 


Jupiter is aspecting the ascendant and the 5th house thus depicting good 
and wise children to the person. 


Example XXVII 


In this horoscope the ascendant lord is Jupiter, placed in 5th house 
shows that the person is very attached to his children. The 5th lord is 
Mars in 6th house with Moon and Rahu. Ascendant lord and 5th lord are 
in 2/1 2 position. This position led to expenditures as 12th house is house 
of expenditure. He has to spend his money on his children. It is 
combination of Rinanubandhan, i.e., agreement of loan. One has to pay 
his debts of past lives in the present in the form of children. At the age of 
retirement he has to work to settle his 1st child. The 2nd one also created 
trouble mentally and financially. The problem with the 3rd one was 
always finance. Even at the age of above 70 years he was worried about 
the welfare of his children and supported them whenever needed. 


In the Navamsha Chart ascendant lord is Aries and Saturn is placed 
there. Saturn is debilitated. Its lord is Mars in the 6th house. 5th lord is 
Sun in the 12th house. 5th house has Ketu placed in it. Both are under the 
influence of malefics. Ascendant lord of birth chart is Jupiter, which is in 
the 3rd house. 5th lord of birth chart is Mars which is in the 6th house 
aspected by Sun. 


Jupiter 1 °° 


Moon Mar Raku 


Horoscope - 27 


In the Saptamsha Chart Ascendant is hemmed with malefics with 


Saturn and Rahu-Ketu axis. Jupiter is in the 7th house with Ketu. Jupiter 
is afflicted here. 5th lord is Mars is in the 6th house. The combination of 
the Sth lord in the 6th house again and again confirms Rinanubandhan, 
1.e., contract of loan means here father is troubled by children and he has 
to support all the 3 of them. 


dupltar 9, : 


Saptamsha Chart of Example - 27 


Example XXVHI 


In this example, the horoscope of a father and son are taken. As both 
love each other it is due to disagreement of views and ego problems 
that they live separately. 


Horoscope - 28 (i) 


The father 28 (1) has Leo ascendant and the 5th house has a Sagittarius 
sign. The 5th house is the house of 1 st progeny. Its lord 1s in the 
ascendant itself. He has a daughter as his Ist child but it is seen here that 
the 5th lord is badly afflicted, which showed that his daughter expired at 
an early age. The 2nd progeny is seen at the 7th house. He has a son 
younger than his daughter. The 7th house is also badly afflicted. It is with 
Rahu-Ketu, the 12th lord Moon present in it. This is aspected by Venus 
and Jupiter. The 7th lord is Saturn in the 6th house - the house of enemy 
depicting the disagreement of views. But Saturn is the 5th from the 
ascendant lord and the 7th house is also aspected by two benefics, 1.e., 
Jupiter and Venus. Hence the love between father and son is there. The 
placement of Rahu-Ketu shows separation between them. 


Horoscope - 28(ii) 


Example No. 28(i1) 1s the horoscope of the son of Example No. 4. In 
this horoscope, the 9th lord Jupiter is in the 7th house which is with 
Rahu-Ketu and aspected by exalted Sun. The 9th house is the house of 
father and the Sun which is the significator of the father. So the mutual 
placement and aspect shows that the father and son are attached to each 
other but here again they are in the Rahu-Ketu axis which separate is 
them. 


Mother - Children “lationship 


The relationship between a mother and child is known to be the most 
sacred relation. /t is said that Cod cannot be everywhere that is why he 
created mothers. Astrologically, the fourth house is of Mother and the 
significator is Moon. The rest of the combinations are just seen like as in 
father - children relations. 


Example XXIX 


Here I want to discuss a horoscope in which the son is the enemy of 
his mother. He even beats her and abuses her. Many a times it 
happened that police was called but all in vain. At that time he would 
behave normally and after some days he would again continue the same 
old story. After all these happenings, the mother still loved her child and 


never left him. 

The Ist child is seen by the 5th house. Her Ist child is a daughter. 5th 
lord is in the 6th house. The 5th house is aspected by the Saturn the 
ascendant lord. The daughter loves her but due to disagreement of views 
she left her mother and started living separately. 


Horoscope - 29 


The 2nd child is her son who is very arrogant. The 2nd child is seen 
with the 7th house. The 7th house is with the cruel planet. The Sun which 
is the lord of the 8th house too. The 7th house is aspected by Mars which 
is associated with Ketu. Jupiter is also with mlalefics. There is 
combination of 5th lord with 6 and 7th with 8th. Hence she could not get 
happiness from her children. 


Example XXX 


Here is the horoscope of a son who loved his mother more than 
anything else in the world. His mother also loved him too much. The 
4th house of the person has a Virgo sign whose lord Mercury, present in 
it. Moon Significator of mother is in Leo, the 3rd house aspected by 
Jupiter. The 4th house is devoid of any malefic influence and so does 
Moon. So you can easily see the cordial relation between mother and son. 


Horoscope of Example - 30 


Chapter 15 


Brother/Sister Relationship 


There is a destiny that makes us brothers, No one goes his way alone; All 
that we send into the lives of others, Comes back into our own. 


— Edwin Markham. 


Brothers and sisters are different in nature even though they are born in 
the same family and of the same mother. They have their own 
individuality. Some children develop sibling jealousy as they share the 
attention of his mother. When attention and love is divided between two 
individuals, jealousy is both common and natural. If they understand the 
position and feeling of their sibling the situation would be different. 
Sometimes love between siblings is very deep as if they are one. In some 
cases though they are inimical to each other. If brothers or sisters are not 
considerate then life too can become strained. 


# The house of elder brother/sister is 11th house. The house of 
younger brother/sister is 3rd. The 3rd from the 3rd house 
signifies the next to the younger brother. The significator of 
siblings is Mars. So if Mars is aspecting, it certainly means that 
the person would have a younger brother. And if Jupiter is in 
the 11th house then it is observed that the person himself is the 
eldest of all in his coborns. 


9 ars 18S aspecte upiter then too, the person may have 
¢ If Mars is aspected by Jupiter th he p yh 
younger brother/ sisters. 


# If malefic are present in the 3rd then the relation with 
brothers/sisters would not be on friendly terms. Even though 
they may be besides each other socially. 


Let us see some examples : 


Example XXXI 


This is an example of a person who has 3 younger sisters. They all 
love each other very much. The sisters respect him as a father. 


His ascendant is Gemini and his 3rd house is Leo. Both lords are 
together in the 12th house. Since the 12th house is house of expenditure 
so itis known that he had no father and he had to compensate the place of 
his father and bear the responsibility as a father does for a family. 


Horoscope - 31 


In Navamsha Chart the ascendant lord is Mercury debilitated in the 
10th house with Saturn. The 3rd lord is Sun in the 2nd house. Mercury 
and Sun are in 5/9 axis which is auspicious and good for relations. This 
axis is axis of the father and children. Here it confirms his relations with 
his sisters as their father. 3rd house is placed with Venus and Mars. His 
eldest sister is suffering from a prolonged illness. The same is with the 
2nd sister. The 7th lord is Venus with Mars which is 6th lord. The 3rd 
sister is settled abroad, as seen with 7th house with Rahu in it. Rahu 
shows distant places. 


12 Satum = Mercury 


Navamsha Chart of Example No. 31 


In Dreshkana chart, ascendant lord is Saturn in 6th house aspected by 
Sun which is 3rd lord of birth chart. The 3rd lord Mars is in 2nd house. 
Jupiter is conjunct with Mercury, the ascendant lord of birth chart, thus 
showing love among brothers and sisters. 


Dreshkana Chart of Example - 31 


Example XXXII 


This is the horoscope of a person who has been ruined by his own 
brother. He had a good business along with his elder brother. He lent 
him some money too. But after some years, his brother asked him to 
separate from the business. He asked for his share of the money. His 
brother gave him his money in installments. Because of this he could 
not start his business and after some time was ruined. He asked for 
help from his brother, in vain. He had no sympathy for his younger 
brother. The ascendant is Moon in the 10th house in the sign of Aries. 


Moon 


_ 1s 
Mercury 
Jupiter Saturn M 


Horoscope of Example - 32 


For the elder brother, the 11 th house can be considered. The 11th lord 
is Venus in the 8th house with Mercury, which in turn aspects the 3rd and 
12th lord with Mars. Mars aspects the 11th house. Venus is seen as 
receiving the 3rd aspect of Saturn. Hence Venus is afflicted here - it is a 
significator of marriage, lord of the 11th house showing his elder brother 
and source of income too. All the 3 factors of his life are in trouble. As 
Venus is lord of the source of income, with Mars it shows that he may be 
benefitted by his brother for sometime but afflictions to Venus shows 
non-cooperative behaviour of the brother. 


In Navamsha Chart also Mercury is ascendant lord in 80 house 
whereas 11th house is in Rahu-Ketu axis. Mars is again with two other 
malefics - Saturn and Sun. Position of Mars is very bad here. Ascendant 
lord of birth chart is Moon is in 2nd house. 11th lord Venus aspected by 


three malefics. Position of Moon and Venus is 6/8 axis. Hence no support 
is seen from the brothers. 


Navamsha Chart of Example - 32 


In Dreshkana Chart, the ascendant is Cancer whose lord is the Moon in 
the 6th house with Jupiter. The 11th lord Venus with Mercury is aspected 
by Saturn. Mercury and Moon are in 3/11 axis; good for brotherly 
relations. But Mars -the significator of brothers is in 8th house and is 
aspected by Saturn. Hence relations between brothers will not always be 
sour. They are on talking terms. Though the dasha of Saturn has proved 
to be bad for him, where he suffered losses due to his brother and this has 
also created differences amongst brothers. 


Dreshkana Chart of Example - 32 


Example XXXHI 


The next horoscope is of a person who is fighting in the court with his 
brothers for paternal property. The ascendant is Virgo whose lord 
Mercury is placed in its own house. The 3rd house is Scorpio placed with 
two malefics Saturn and Rahu. Both these are separative planets. The lord 
of the 3rd house is Mars, significator of siblings. Mars is in the 6th house 
with 11th lord Moon aspected by the 4th lord Jupiter, related to home. 
The 6th house is the house of quarrels, enemies and court cases and the 
11 th house is the house where lies the source of income. His source of 
income is related with his brothers. He is fighting in the court to divide 
the share of income judiciously. He is suffering monetary loss due to his 
brothers. The 11th lord in 6th house shows loss of money in disputes. The 
exchange of 3d lord with the 6th lord confirms enmity with brothers. 


In the Navamsha Chart, the ascendant is placed with Saturn aspecting 
the 3rd house. The lord of the 3rd house is Mercury - ascendant lord of 
the birth chart too. The 3rd lord is Mercury is in 7th house aspected by 
Saturn as well as by Mars. Mars aspects the 3rd house which shows that 
the person has the presence of Mars. Mars is aspecting the 3rd house 
disclosing that the person will have brothers. (When a significator aspects 
its house then the relation signified by that planet will be there in one’s 
life.) Hence, Mercury is under the influence of two malefics— Saturn and 
Mars. 


Sun Jupiter 


Horoscope - 33 


Navamsha Chart of Example - 33 


In Dreshkana Chart ascendant lord is Venus is with Mars in 6th house 
showing court cases with brothers. Mercury, the ascendant lord of birth 
chart is in Rahu-Ketu axis which shows separative behaviour of the 
person with his brothers as this chart infers the events related to his 


brothers. The 3rd lord of birth chart is Mars which is in the 6th house. 
Mercury and Mars are in 2/1 2 axis shows losses and tensions due to his 
brothers. 


Dreshkana Chart of Example - 33 


Every relation requires adjustment and needs attention. Good 
communication proper time and a civil behaviour develops a good 
relation. 

Often we take our relations for granted. This is specially so in the case 
of a husband and wife. 

We forget that the relation is the foundation of our life and needs more 
care and attention. So take care of your relations and the relations will 
take care of you. 


Chapter 16 


Friendship 


Greater love has no man than this, that a man lay down his life lor his 
friends. 


— Bible, John 15:13 


It is acommon knowledge that if you want to know about the nature and 
behaviour of a person then judge him through his friends. You can’t 
choose your brothers, sisters, mother and father, etc., as they are all blood 
relations, but what you can choose is a friend that suits your nature. It is 
common understanding that if you dislike your fnend then your 
friendship too doesn’t last long. A friend is one you can rely on, share 
your views with and do lots more. You have faith in him, but many a 
times it is seen that friends also deceive and betray you and become your 
enemy. 


Friends are seen through 11th house in the horoscope and _ the 
significator of friend is Mercury. Friends turn open enemies by the 7th 
house and secret enemies can be spotted by looking at the 12th house. A 
times, the 8th house too is viewed for hidden enemies as the 8th house 
signifies hidden things and sudden happenings. Secret plans are also 
foreseen by viewing this house. 


For analysing friendship compatibility, horoscopes of both friends are 
needed. The birth constellation, the ascendant, the moon and the 
significator of both friends in 1/5, 3/11, 4/10, 7/7, 5/9 positions are 
known as to be good for them. 2/1 2 position shows expenditure or loss of 
money through friends. 6/8 position shows enemity or disputes raised by 
giving or taking money from friends. 


The lords of birth constellations for both charts should also be allies in 
the birth chart. 


Here are some examples of the horoscopes which would highlight the 
relations between friends. 


Example XXXIV 


This is the horoscope of a boy who had a number of friends around 
him. They used to spend their evenings together. They used to enjoy 
and spend money leisurely. The boy belonged to a middle-class 
family. He could not afford to spend too much money on his friends. 
Sometimes his friends lent him some money. After a month or so 


when they asked him to pay their money back but he was unable do 
so. After buying more time too he failed to arrange the money in the 
required time span. On asking for money again he was severely 
beaten by his friends. This is a classic example of friends becoming 
enemies in the name of money. The ascendant lord is Mercury, a 
significator of friends too. In the 6th house lies Saturn the 8th lord. In the 
association of the person with his friends who may prove to be hidden 
enemies for him and any involvement of money lending may be the 
creator of their enemity. It is further noted that 11th house of friends is in 
Rahu-Ketu axis which are separative planets. Ketu joins in with Mars 
depicting violence and quarrel. So people in such situations need to be 
cautious in making friends. He should not believe or totally trust his 
friends and be aware while dealing in money matters with them. 


Satum Mercury 


Horoscope - 34 


Example XXXV 


The next horoscope is of a person who is extremely helpful in dealing 
with his friends. He knows that his friends would never be able to 
return his money back but still con times to helps them without any 
expectation. He stands by his friends through thick and thin and love 
is also reciprocated by his group of friends along with respect. He is a 
true friend who is totally reliable. The ascendant lord Mercury in the 
12th house and the 11th lord is Mars in the 10th house. Both these planets 
are in 3/11 in position. This position is good for friends. Mars is aspected 
by Jupiter and is placed in the sign of Jupiter too. Although the 11 th 


house is in Rahu-Ketu axis with Venus; it shows that some friends may 
deceive him. So he can only trust a select group of friends. 


Horoscope - 35 


Example XXXVI 


This is a horoscope of a person who is rather fortunate with friends. 
He has a good circle of friends. He has a Virgo ascendant with Mercury 
and Mars placed. The 11th house is Cancer with its lord Moon present. 
Moon joins with Venus. The 11th house also receives the Jupiter aspect 
as well as the aspect of Saturn. Jupiter is debilitated and is placed with 
Saturn. Saturn is in its own house. A well placed Saturn also gives him 
fame and honour in the society. So the fellow does well amongst his 
group of friends. 


Satum Mars 
e 
Rah 


Sun 
Jupiter 5 


=x 


Horoscope - 36 


Example XXXVII 


This is a person who has been always benefitted by his friends. He 
opened his business in partnership with his friends and benefitted 
from it. His relations with his friends are always cordial. 


The ascendant is Aries and its lord is in the 2nd house with Saturn, the 
lord of the 11th house. The 2nd house is the house of accumulated money 
or assets of the person. He was thus benefitted by doing business with his 
friends. The 11th house is aspected by Jupiter from the 5th house as well. 


Sun 
Jupiter Mercury 


Ket ~ Venus 


Horoscope - 37 


Chapter 17 


Astrology for Better Relations 


Those who are kind, lovable and helpful to others are lucky. Those who 
have balanced their relations with better understanding are the blessed 
ones. It is not possible for everyone to be like that always. A relation 
which is good for you today may turn sour tomorrow. It is difficult to 
keep everybody happy at all times. Relations can be kept balanced if one 
treats his relations with a balanced mind. This condition is difficult to 
attain for any normal human being. Regular meditation and leaning 
towards God makes one thoroughly understand life. In the Bhagwad Gita, 
Lord Krishna, has beautifully divided the whole world in three qualities- 
Sattva, Rajas and Jamas. The balance in these three qualities makes a life 
successful. Any imbalance within these three qualities strains the life. 
The only way to achieve this balance is Meditation -’>Dhyanam 
Nirvishayam Manah’. Meditation brings that state of mind where there 
are no Vishayas (worldly attachments) of sensual thoughts. But most of 
people are still unaware or unwilling to follow this path. For them few 
remedial measures are given to bring harmony in their relations as far as 
possible. 


There are many remedial methods such as Yantra poojan, Mantra 
poojan, Reiki, Vastu, Fengshui, etc., which seem to be effective in life. 
Since Yantras need special methods and practice. Always learn from an 
appropriate teacher or ‘guru’ as even a small mistake can make the 
method ineffective in producing the desired result. 


Reiki: -one should be properly channelised by his ‘Reiki guru’ to 
utilize the powers of Reiki. I seek to narrate a few mantras and tips of 
fengshui to improve your relations. While narrating the mantras just keep 
in mind the: 


# Place and time of worship should be same everyday. 
# One should be clean physically and mentally. 


¢ Face towards the north east or east directions while reciting 
mantras. 


# Always pray for peace and happiness for everyone. 


1. Most relations get strained because of anger. If anger is 
controlled most of your problems can be solved. The mantra is 
given here to minimize the anger. Recite this mantra and blow 
into the water. Repeat it for 21 times and sprinkle it thrice on 


the face. Your anger will vanish away slowly and slowly. 


Uh Wee WT Gd eT UAT Caer It 
|| Orn shante Prashante Sarva Krodh Pashneen Swaha | | 
2. This is known as ‘Aakasshan Mantra’ to attract a person to 


listen you properly and would come round your views. Recite 
this mantra for one lac times. Replace the name of person 


where SD (Amukam) is written. 
id aa aieagEne aaa araltl ape aye Tare It 


|| Qm namo Adipurushaya Amukam Akarshanam Kuru 


Kuru Swaha | | 


3. When there is delay in getting a good groom for a girl then 
the girl should recite the following mantra—5 rosaries of 108 
beads for 21 days continuously after performing Japa and 
Durga pooja with all rites. 


eR steers gen ea sinc ioa | 
a A Bo HT Sea Tees | 


Hey Gauri Shankarachangini Yatha twam Shankar priya, 
Tatha mam Kuru Kalyani Kantkantam Sucuriubham. 


4. For boys to get a good bride the above mantra should be 
replaced by : 


Patnim manormam dehi manovritanusarinim, 
tarinim durgsansarsagaasy kulodbhavam. 


5. When the husband of a wife gets angry too much with her 
then she should pray in front of Shankar-Gauri bhagwan and 
recite this mantra for 108 times daily for 21 days. The mantra 
should start easily in the morning of Monday. 


Ora Kieeng trayrabakam yajarmaha Sugandhi patirvvedanam, 
Patimu urvarikmiy bandhan patimokshaye mamritat; Kleeng 
Om {| 


6. Woman should recite 21 times for 21 days start from Friday 
morning. 


Ta Be fated Grafs delay: 


Orn yatha nakulo vichichhdha Sanddhatyahi Punah 
Aeva kamasya vichichhanam Sandehi Veeryanvatih] | 


7. To attract anyone, recite this mantra 1000 times daily for 21 
days continuously. Insert the name of a person instead of 
*Amuk’. 


|| Om Chamunde Tarutatoo. Amukaye Aakarshaye Aakarshaye 
Suaha | | 


Gems are also seen effective in improving relations. 


1. For happiness and adjustment women should wear yellow sapphire 
in gold in the Ist finger of the right hand. Men should wear 
diamond in bronze in little finger of right hand. This combination 
should also be used for early marriage. 


2. If children are creating problem by their improper behaviour with 
parents, a Moon stone of 11 carats in silver in the ring finger of the 
right hand should hold good for children. Parents should wear 
yellow sapphire in the | st finger (index finger) of 5 carats on a 
thursday morning. 


3. Aquamarine is presented by lovers to each others for stabilising 
their love, harmony and affection. It avoids disputes and divorce 
between husband and wife. 


4. Agate is good for making friends. 
5. Cornelian is meant for preserving harmony. 


6. Gometh promises consistency in friendship and love. Those who 
are fickle minded Ist and moody in love should use this stone to 
bring stability. 

7. Tumarline is stone meant for people who are feeling lonely and 
leading isolated life. 

8. Moonstone cools anger. 

9. Emerald helps to keep harmony and sympathy. 

10. Peridot rivers lost love between husband and wife. 


Note : 


1. Any stone should not be worn before consulting an expert. 
2. Avoid stones represented by the lords of 6-8-12 houses. 


Usually relations are strained due to anger. So here are few tips to reduce 
the vibrations of anger and fire in the house. 


# The walls and the upholstery of the house should be light in 
colour. Walls should be painted white or cream. 


# Door chimes are known as to increase harmony in the house. 


# If there are persistent quarrels between husband and wife 
then a diya of pure ghee should be lit in the bedroom after 
sunset. 


# A glass bowl filled with water and some petals of flowers 
also reduces bad vibrations in the house. 


# Pictures of war, fights sicking ships, etc., should not be 
placed in the room. 


# Utensils or any instrument lying under the bed should be 
removed. 


# Doors should be well decorated with auspicious things. 
The mirrors of the bedroom should be covered. 
# Scissors, knives and sharp tools should not be kept openly. 


# The house should be clean spick span. Shoes should not be 
kept near the entrance. 


The mystic knot of China should be Kept in the office or house to bring 
good luck. It is also known as to bring romance between husband-wife. 
As this knot has no beginning and no end so it is also called as endless 
knot. 


Readers may contact the author for further guidance, any queries 
or remedies at www.vspublishers.com. 


