AN INTRODUCTION TO 
VEDIC ASTROLOGY 


SPIRITUAL SCIENCE OF 
THE ANCIENTS 


by 
HOWARD BECKMAN 


TABLE OF CONTENTS 


Page No 
TEC O UC TO ieee are steers secon waar taetdoees eaten i 
Part 1, 
Vedic Astrology: Your Personal Roadmap To Success.............. 1 
PH yGical FIG AVON species ect coat deeek tat et acececa atta S.A tee a coe aie 3 
Mental, Emotional and Spiritual Health... 9 
Relationship Compatibility Using Astrology.............0..0...0.0... 15 
PLUM AN SERUM iol coisas saith duvnmsunscesicear Bins ntel eto eaades onatisiie 19 
Discovering Your Potential and Choosing a Careert................ 21 
Prosperity and Positive Thinking-Does it Really Work?........ 23 
Consciousness and Spirituality...000.000.000000 ccc 25 
Practicality Of Astrology. .....0.0.0.0.0.00ccce cette tet tetetttettteteees 29 
Summary Points of Part boo... cccceeceeeeeececeeeeeeeteeeeteteeeeees 31 
Part 2, 
Understanding The Horoscope.............0.0.0.00:cc eects 35 
The Planets, Signs and Houses ...000.0.0.0.0.000.00cecceeeteteee 37 
Planets in the Signs and Houses....0.0.0.0.00.0.00 ceed 49 
NG Stans .h. Geico pil fant sla Bua Co pe eRe iat kN 79 
Temporary Natures of  Planets......— 200000000... 87 
Rulership (Lordship) Yogas........0.0.0.0.0.0:0ccccceceeseeeeeceeettesetee 89 
Interpretation of the Chart and Predicting the Future.......... 113 
PlANCARy ASPCCIS ia han atti tata i Sti le eRe oh ao 119 
Main Points From Patt 2...0.00000.0000cccccececeeeeeeeeee eee teteeeeeeeee 119 
Part 3, 
Remedial Measures, Successful Progress and Conclusion ...121 
Remedial Measures in Astrology.............00.0.c cette 122 
Gemstone Therapy sessed cc eas una eee ieee ude 123 
The Seven Secrets of Successful Progress__l27 
aPC FIQROSCONE: astm Aa Sia sere th ec it Sa 130 


CONG TISION re eit Se De ook cee eee ade 133 


INTRODUCTION 


Today there is a resurgence of interest in the West towards the spiritual 
sciences, of which vedic, or Indian, astrology is most prominent. Unfortunately, 
astrology is mostly misunderstood in the West, viewed as a purely esoteric science, 
without a basis of scientific understanding. This is a grave misconception, yet it is 
understandable considering the degradation to which it has been subjected. 

Many people have little, or no, true knowledge of this great and holy science, 
thinking it to be, for the most part, in the realm or fantasy. Even those who have 
attempted to delve into it have been frustrated by the unfamiliar terminology and 
concepts on the subject This is because most such books are written for those that 
wish to learn how to actually cast horoscopes, rather than simply as an aid to 
understanding a chart. 

1 am writing this book to hopefully fill such a gap for those that wish a 
simple and concise text to help them understand the purpose of the astrological 
science, as well as a handbook to understanding your own horoscope. 

There will be no instructions on how to cast a horoscope. There are many 
texts delineating the mathematics for doing so and a selection can be found at any 
bookstore, although in this modern age the vast majority of astrologers use 
computers to cast the horoscopic charts. This book is meant for those that have 
their chart done by a vedic astrologer and wish to further understand it, as well as 
those that want to learn the usefulness of astrology in general. 

The main reason that many have little respect for astrology in the West is 
simply due to lack of knowledge. It is thought of as simply a means of fortune- 
telling, which is far from the truth. There are many unscrupulous people who have 
but a little knowledge of this science, yet profess to be bona-fide astrologers, taking 
advantage of the ignorance of the general populace in this regard. The type of 
astrology based on Western sun signs, as found in most newspapers and many 
magazines, is, for the most part, useless. It is considered to be for entertainment 
purposes only and is not taken seriously due to the extremely general nature of it's 
supposed predictions for those born during the time the sun is in a particular sign. 
It has given a “black-eye” to the science, in the minds of many. This is a great 
shame for the true bona-fide science of astrology is meant to enlighten human society. 


Vedic astrology is not only extremely accurate in helping an individual to 
understand what his or her future will be during this lifetime, but gives an under- 
standing as to the true nature of matter and spirit, allowing knowledge to be 
gained of who we are and how to achieve success on all levels.... physical, mental 
or emotional and spiritual. A correct horoscope may be likened to a good road map 
for travelling between two distant cities. Using a detailed map, proper care can be 
taken to avoid danger. If the map shows a narrow road through mountains with 
dangerous curves and embankments, then any sane person will go slowly, keeping 
their eyes fixed carefully on the road and hands tightly on the wheel. If it shows 
the road to be wide and straight, with little in the way of obstacles, it is possible to 
go faster and be more relaxed on the journey. An accurate horoscope may be used 
as a road map on life's journey. At times of difficulty, or when negative karma is 
destined to manifest itself, you should take care. To take risks at such times, 
physically, financially, or otherwise is like speeding around mountain passes at 
night, where it is easy to have a major accident, incurring major losses in one way 


or another. At times, when you know the cards are "stacked in your favour", that 
is the time to pull out the stops and go all out to achieve success. 

To begin with we need to understand what the science of astrology is. An 
astrologer does a horoscope which shows a map of the heavens at the time of 
birth. The different planets are shown at the exact place they were situated, in a 
particular zodiacal sign, at the moment you were born. Many people are familiar 
with the sun's movements, as when you look in your newspaper at the astrology 
column it shows the dates of the sun's passing through the various signs of the 
zodiac. The sun takes one full year to pass through all the signs. That is what it 
means when a person in the West says, “I’ma Taurus", or "I'ma Leo”. It means 
that at the time they were bom the sun was in Taurus, or Leo. 

The zodiac is an imaginary sphere including the heavens. Within this sphere, 
all of the planets, including the sun and moon, are travelling in their respective 
orbits. It is divided into twelve equal parts of thirty degrees each which are the 
signs of the zodiac. Originally these signs corresponded to fixed constellations of 
stars, but due to the procession of the equinox (moving at approximately 50.25 
seconds a year) this correlation is nonexistent at present. Therefore, after many 
years of this discrepancy there is about a twenty three degree difference between 
the constellations and signs of the same names. That is why someone who had 
always thought their sun was at fifteen degrees Leo would discover that, according 
to the eastern system, the sun would have been at 22 degrees Cancer. The Eastern 
system is called the sidereal zodiac and the Western called the tropical zodiac. 
Although the Western system is quite useful, having proved itself to be such for 
personality traits, especially the Eastern system is far more accurate for predictive 
astrology. The Eastern system also teaches the uses of remedial measures to 
strengthen a horoscope, as in gem therapy, whereas the Western system has no 
such system of self- help to strengthen weaknesses or to counteract negative 
influences in the horoscope. - 


To only consider the sun sign is a very incomplete picture as all the planets are 
in signs of the zodiac, and their positions at the time of birth are just as important as 
the position of the sun. Since the planets represent different things we must know 
where they all were, to gain a complete picture. 

There are twelve "signs", illustrating different natures or qualities of the energies 
represented by the planets. 

Then there are the twelve “houses”, which represent the different applica- 
tions or categories of life. For instance the moon represents the mind and an 
individual, with the moon in Leo, will have a powerful mind, as the qualities of 
Leo are strong and fiery. Depending on which house it is situated in will determine 
different attributes relating to different areas of life, such as health, wealth, career, 
happiness, relationships with others, nature of the personality, etc. 

The way we know which sign goes in which house is according to the rising 
sign, or ascendant. Whatever sign was due east on the horizon at the time of birth 
is the rising sign. This sign is placed in the first house and all the other eleven signs 
follow in their natural order. Therefore, if Leo is rising at the time of birth, then it is 
put in the first house, Virgo in the second, Libra in the third, Scorpio in the fourth, 
Sagittarius in the fifth and so on. 

Gaining an understanding of the effects of having a particular planet in a 
certain sign in a certain house will help you to understand this life and beyond. I 


say beyond, because this science is not meant simply for understanding this 
present lifetime but for understanding the bigger picture. 

We are not these bodies, rather our eternal nature is "spirit", unending, and 
unchanging in nature. It is only due to the covering of the body that we identify so 
much with this world and it is only our bodies which are subject to birth, death, 
old age and disease. At the time of death, or leaving the body, the spirit soul leaves 
and goes on to another situation determined by the "karma" (results of actions 
performed) created while in the present body. 

The science of astrology is based on the science of "transmigration of the 
soul", This is the journey of the spirit soul from body to body, in lifetime after life- 
time, due to karma, or the reactions to the actions performed in life. Therefore, 
when we read a chart, we are understanding the quality of the activities performed 
in the former life. According to our actions we are awarded a particular type of 
body in which to enjoy, or suffer, within this world. Anyone that has had their horo- 
scope done by a qualified astrologer must accept this principle. How else are we 
able to reveal a life, past, present and future, including the nature and machinations 
of the mind and innermost feelings? It is not due to being psychic, although a 
developed "sixth sense" is necessary, but a very real and scientific method of 
“reading” the chart. 


Since proper practice of this science requires great intellect, as well as “clarity 
of perception,” take care to find an astrologer who lives by the "superior" principles 
of life. "Superior" principles means spiritual principles, for an astrologer who has 
not attained a level of greater physical, mental, and spiritual health cannot help 
others to do so. A person should not take the title astrologer after only reading a 
few books and learning the mechanics of the science. It takes adherence to higher 
spiritual principles of fife to gain the necessary intuition to be able to help others. 
You wouldn't choose an attorney who is lazy and therefore unwilling to do the 
proper research on behalf of your case, nor choose a doctor who is 150 pounds 
overweight and chain-smokes cigarettes, nor an accountant whose clients are often 
called upon for a financial audit by the taxation department. Take just as much care 
in choosing an astrologer. A qualified vedic astrologer is also qualified as a spiritual 
guide, career counsellor, psychologist, marriage or relationship counsellor and 
capable of diagnosing likely physical weaknesses and ailments in the body. To 
illustrate this last category, up until a few hundred years or so ago, doctors were 
required to also study astrology to become qualified. Furthermore, an astrologer 
must be engaged on the spiritual path of self-realization, for this is the real goal of 
life. An astrologer who does have this clarity of perception can help a person by 
guiding them in what actions to perform to be successful in various areas of life 
and the best times to effect them. 


Having your horoscope done should help you to make the right choices in 
life to gain success in all you desire. Action shapes destiny and our actions will 
determine the actual manifestation of karma, good and bad. The more knowledge 
gained, the more self -direction of destiny for true fulfilment in life, materially and 
spiritually. It is said in the vedic scriptures, which contain all sciences of life, 
including the astrological science, that knowledge is likened to a torchlight and 
fear and ignorance to darkness. The torchlight of knowledge illuminates the dark- 
ness of ignorance, thereby dissipating fear. When a person is in knowledge there is 
no fear, even at the point of death, or leaving the body. For those in true knowledge 


iu 


death is no more than another step on the path of life. Therefore human beings 
must gain knowledge in order to have happiness and peace of mind, in any and all 
circumstances. 

I have divided this book into three parts. Part one is concerned with the 
practical applications of this science in different areas of life. Part two gives 
descriptions of the characteristics and representations of the planets, signs, houses 
and stars. This can be used to understand your own chart as well as in gaining 
basic knowledge of their meanings. Part three is concerned with remedial 
measures to help balance disharmonic influences within the horoscope. 

It is my sincere hope that this book may be of value in helping to throw some 
light on the practical uses for having an astrological horoscope done and for further 
understandings of its meaning. Hopefully, one day this great science will again be 
given the respect it justly deserves and be utilized to the benefit of all humanity, as 
it formerly was and still is, in much of the Eastern world. 


I¥ 


PHYSICAL HEALTH 


Everyone is concerned with their health as well they should be. If you do not 
maintain your body properly then disease naturally has an open door to enter. 
Many of us put the emphasis on our physical health nowadays but, unless you 
have good mental & emotional health, you will still not feel whole or healthy. 
Even if you take care of your body and also study to develop a healthy mind, you 
will still feel incomplete without developing spiritual health. In the eternal scheme 
of things we are spirit, not matter - with which we seem to constantly identify. 
How to be healthy spiritually is a matter of grave importance. 

First let us took at how astrology can help us understand inherent weaknesses 
in ourselves physically and mentally. Different “planets” rule over different parts 
of the body. Different "signs" have influence on particular areas of the body and 
the different "houses" also indicate the same. Therefore, by proper consideration of 
a birth chart horoscope, it is possible to ascertain physical and mental problems 
that you are likely to incur at various times of life. We can also see chronic difficulties 
that may arise during a lifetime, physically and psychologically. 

Having knowledge of what difficulties we may have with our bodies and 
minds allows us to take preventive measures to allay the problems, or to greatly 
reduce their effects. 

Vedic astrology provides a key to the diagnosis and prevention of disease far 
beyond the scope of modern medical science. Were modern doctors to also take 
advantage of medical astrology they could forsee what diseases a person is likely 
to contract in his or her lifetime, what parts of the body are likely to be affected and 
when they might be likely to occur. This most important branch of astrology has 
been used for thousands of years with astounding accuracy. Still today, in modern 
India, many ayur-vedic doctors use the combination of stethoscope and horoscope 
to make their diagnosis of patients ailments. 

Modern medical science has successfully found cures for many diseases and 
developed vaccines to prevent epidemic diseases. Astrology can go a giant step 
further by allowing a qualified practitioner to diagnose weaknesses of the physical 
body and to predict specific ailments that may be contracted simply by careful 
study of the birth chart. With this knowledge a parent can institute preventive 
measures to protect a child from contracting certain illnesses right from infancy, 
rather than waiting until the malady becomes evident and thus requires curative 
measures. Doesn't it make more sense to prevent disease, if there is the knowledge 
of what diseases may occur, than to just rely on medicine for a cure once the 
disease rears it's ugly head? If an astrologer is also trained in anatomy, physiology 
and pathology he can use the horoscope to greater advantage than the stethoscope. 
The stethoscope is also a valuable tool, but the horoscope is much more valuable 
for understanding a person's future health, 


The strength of a horoscope in general will indicate the strength of the body 
and its ability to resist disease. There are certain "yogas”, or combinations of planets, 
which serve to give excellent health. By the same token there are "yogas”, or 
combinations, which can cause chronic suffering from different types of diseases. 
Planets each have different parts of the body that they "rule", or have jurisdiction, 
over. This means they will also affect specific bodily functions. The "signs" of the 
zodiac also affect specific areas of the body, individually. 


3 


The "houses" of a chart not only rule over different areas of life, but different 
parts of the body and their susceptibility to disease. In addition, the "signs" or com 
stellations of stars (nakshatras) are extremely important in understanding specific 
affectations of disease and the times of occurrence. 

An astrologer must study the birth chart of an individual, then the daily 
movements of the planets, to understand and diagnose present and future health. 

The "Ayurveda", India's ancient medical texts, translated as the "science of 
life”, are inextricably intertwined with the "Jyotish", the vedic astrological texts. In 
olden times, all ayurvedic doctors in India were also astrologers. The combination 
of these two sciences allowed them a complete system for diagnosis and treatment 
of not only diseases of the body but also of the mind. Note that even the twelve 
basic salts of homeopathy are associated and related to the twelve houses of the 
zodiac. 

It follows that mental health can also be understood from a person's 
horoscope. There are many factors and planetary conjunctions that can indicate a 
troubled mind, neurosis, or psychosis. The psychological condition as a whole can 
be understood through a careful study of the birth chart. Even appearance and 
longevity of life can be accurately foretold. Therefore an astrologer must not only 
understand which planets cause disease but also the types that may manifest 
themselves, what areas of the body they will affect and when. Furthermore, he 
must also be well versed in the medical sciences and the natures of different 
diseases, as well as their symptoms. 

Why is it that a robust-looking person will be said to be healthy by a doctor, yet 
come down with a debilitating illness not able to be foreseen by modern doctors? 
Why can a frailer, less-healthy appearing person combat and resist certain 
diseases? The answer is fate....karma. Everything about the future can be indicated 
by an individual's horoscope. 

Does this mean that all is predestined and we cannot do anything to thwart 
future problems with the mind and body? No, it does not. Medical astrology can 
give great insights as to a proper diet for an individual to follow to maintain 
optimum health. 

Let’s take a look at the universally applicable ways in which we can first keep a 
healthy body and mind. First of all different people need to eat different types of 
food according to their body type. Not everyone has the same type of body, or 
physical constitution, so different people require different foods in different quantities 
to be healthy. The environment in which they live and the type of work they do 
will also influence the dietary needs. The ayur-vedic system of medicine describes 
the types, symptoms, appearance, etc. and prescribes different types of foods. It 
also provides insights on herbs to take to prevent and combat disease. Then a horo- 
scope will indicate the right type of place for an individual to live for optimum 
health, as well as an occupation that is congruent with his/her mental and physical 
constitution. There are also spiritual practices that should be undertaken to balance 
physical, mental and spiritual health. Remedial measures, such as gemstones, may 
also be used to balance and harmonize planetary influences. (See Part 3). Without 
going into the actual science of ayur-veda to a great degree I cannot do it justice 
but I will discuss the universal truths in this regard. 


In today's world much of the populace creates disease by lack of knowledge 
on eating. Fast food restaurants started in the U.S.A. and have spread throughout 


the world. Some medical and scientific research suggests that such processed 
foods may be responsible for much of the cancers and heart disease which are now 
world-wide, although the U.S.A. is still the leader. It is necessary to eat wholesome 
fresh fruits, vegetables, grains, beans, nuts, etc. to properly maintain the body. 
Meats are unsuitable for most people and in general flesh foods should never be 
eaten by anyone. Except in rare cases, flesh foods are prohibited for human society, 
as delineated in India's ancient vedic scriptures. The original precepts of most of 
the world's ancient religions and cultures espoused this identical principle. Even 
the old testament of Judaism gives this most important instruction of what foods 
should be used for human consumption. 

Ignorance of this is at the root of today's health problems. Animal protein is 
easily available from milk products which can be obtained without slaughtering 
cows. So many wonderful foods can be prepared from the produce of the earth that 
fully maintain a healthy body. 

There are so many people today that have realized the health benefits of 
being a vegetarian. There are wonderful books about diet that no doubt you've 
already read, or at least heard about Even medical doctors are propounding giving 
up meat-eating to reduce cancer and heart disease. We've seen amazing changes in 
patients with incurable or undiagnosable illnesses for the better when simply 
switching to a vegetarian diet. 1 doubt there are many alive today that would refute 
the health benefits of vegetarianism. We are more concerned about our physical 
health today as we see the futility in lifestyles that destroy our bodies. More than 
ever you will see that people are exercising their bodies and minds to maintain 
physical and mental health. The fact is when we're really healthy in mind and 
body we feel happy. Isn't that what it’s all about, feeling happiness? There is no 
amount of money or material success that will buy it. Vegetarians feel better, live 
longer and lead less stressful lives. This amounts to more peace of mind and body. 


However, there is a further meaning of vegetarianism. We understand’ from 
the sages of ancient vedic times in India that vegetarianism was a prerequisite for 
being eligible to learn from a bona-fide guru of the eternal spiritual side of life. 
There is actually a verse in the "puranas" that says there is a specific part of the 
brain that can only be used if one is a vegetarian. They said that this part of the 
brain allowed them to perform physical austerities for advancement in the yoga 
system without the danger of prematurely leaving the body or, put plainly, so they 
wouldn't die from not eating or keeping their bodies in one position with a slowed 
heart rate for so long. These yogis would develop mystic siddhis, or powers, as a 
byproduct of their spiritual practice. It was not the goal of their austerities and 
spiritual practice. 

So there must be a very real and important reason, spiritually, for not eating 
meat. That reason is nonviolence. The commandment "Thou shalt not kill" does 
not mean only people. We have no right to take the lives of poor innocent creatures 
for the satisfaction of our palate. There is nobody in this part of the world who 
could make an argument that there are not enough other foodstuffs. We have an 
abundance of fruits, vegetables, grains, nuts, beans, spices, even the milk of cows 
and goats. We are talking spiritually, now. lt is not necessary to kill them for milk. 
In India the cow is considered one of the sacred mothers of the human race. The 
reason is because of nurturing us with her milk. In India dozens of products and 
dishes are made with milk products that delight even the most discriminating 


palate. So why should we kill poor animals for food unnecessarily? It is a crime 
and degrades the whole of human society. 

When we realize that we are actually spirit soul, inhabiting this body for a 
short time, we thus realize that all living entities are spirit soul, inhabiting different 
bodies. Itis said that there are 8,400,00 species of life in the material world. There 
are many variations within the lower of the species, as well. Most of us have taken 
countless births before this one. You only identify yourself as John, Robert, Mary, 
George, Rajiv, Mustaffa or whatever, due to your identifying with this incarnation. 
Actually you are not the person you call yourself. You are not your body. When the 
body ends, you will still exist. In the Bhagavad-Gita it aays: “Never was there a 
time when you and 1 did not exist nor all these kings”. We are eternal, sentient 
beings. These bodies are only temporary manifestations. When the body is old and 
can no longer be used, you will cast it off like an old shirt, leaving it ,ultimately, to 
take a new one. So, in reality, animals are also our brothers. It is our duty to protect 
those that need protection, not slaughter them. When all life is respected, then it is 
possible to find out the real meaning of life. Vegetarianism is the most important of 
the true tenets of all forms of spirituality. 


As long as the illusion that love is meant only for human beings exists, then 
there will be no realization of love at all and universal love is the most important 
lesson to be learned in life. If you learn how to feel love, to give love, to receive 
love, you will become happier tnan you knew was possible. 

We human beings are meant to rule the earth but with love, not violence. 
Violence has it's place only because there is a lack of spiritual realization among 
the masses. With a spiritual awakening we can change the world to bring peace 
and love, where before there existed war and hatred. 

God has many names, forms and attributes. God is worshiped in different 
ways, in different places, by different peoples. We can see the differences and we 
can see the similarities. The constant similarity is the teaching of love. How can 
you love if you are engaged in violence? Think about it! This was the hidden secret 
of all advanced ancient civilizations that endured for any length of time. It shall, in 
future centuries be known as the hidden secret that saved all human society from 
destruction. 

Environment is another factor that causes health problems due to toxins in 
the air we breathe, the water we drink and even the agricultural products that we 
eat. It is possible to purify your water with the aid of a good water purifier and 
organically grown produce is available, to some degree. If the air is extremely bad 
where you live, then you may want to consider an air purifier, which can at least be 
effective when you are indoors. 

The other factors to developing a healthy body are rest and exercise. It is 
important to regulate your slecping habits. You must gct cnough sleep for your 
body and mind to function properly, six to eight hours a night are usually 
sufficient for most. Children need more sleep when growing, yet some adults can 
function well with as little as four to five hours nightly. The principle is that you 
must get enough rest depending onage and activity. Oversleeping is actually detri- 
mental and serves to makes us feel tired, rather than refreshed. 

Exercise is the other factor. Today much of the world lives in urban areas and 
does work that is not sufficient to physically exercise the body adequately. It doesn't 
matter whether you do hatha yoga, calisthenics, running or walking, Tai-Chi, martial 


arts, etc., but you must do something. Living the sedentary lifestyle that many live 
in western cities creates physical stagnation in the muscles, joints, respiratory 
system and internal organs. Even the brain functions better. Exercise also has the 
effect of making you feel good, or enlivened, mentally. Anyone who exercises 
would undoubtably agree with this point. 

It follows that proper diet, rest and exercise are necessary to keep your physical 
health. Natural additives (vitamins, etc.) may be added to compensate for the lack of 
complete nutrition in our food. It goes without saying (but Ill say it anyway) that 
drugs and alcohol consumption greatly serve to deteriorate physical and psychological 
health, as well as shorten the lifespan. We generally give an indication of the lifespan 
when doing a horoscope but, according to lifestyle, this may be reduced 
considerably. Therefore, through a combination of the horoscope (to give us the 
information of inherent physical weaknesses of the body) and a knowledge of how 
to maintain the body properly (through proper diet, rest and exercise), everyone can 
enjoy good health to the limit of their circumstance. 

Mental, emotional and psychological health must also be maintained through 
proper action. The only way to act properly is with knowledge. Good mental and 
emotional health is inextricably intertwined with spiritual health, for how can a 
person be emotionally well-balanced without understanding their true spiritual 
nature? 


MENTAL, EMOTIONAL AND 
SPIRITUAL HEALTH 


In order to maintain a healthy mind we must realize the true realities of life. 
Therefore we must consider our spiritual nature to understand the subtleties of 
mind, intelligence and ego. Accordingly mental, emotional and spiritual health go 
together and, unless you have some knowledge in this regard, you cannot stop the 
onslaught of negative emotions brought on by ignorance and fear. We not only 
need to engage ourselves in some sort of fulfiling work to occupy our minds but 
need to understand why we fall victim to feelings of hate, envy, greed and avarice. 
These emotions only serve to destroy us intellectually, psychologically, emotionally 
and spiritually. Why is there so much hate in the world, anyway? 

In Germany and even in other countries, the resurgence of racism is alarming. 
Young men roam the streets, organized and unorganized, burning, looting, 
robbing, raping, pillaging. In Germany the cry from these men is to oust all 
foreigners, Jews and anyone else they decide to vent their fury upon. In Bosnia- 
Herzegovina it is Serb against Muslim and Croat, as well as Croat against Muslim. 
In the Middle-East it is Jew against Muslim, as well as Muslim against Christian. In 
China's territories the hate is directed against Tibet, or any that will not "kowtow”". 
In India it is Muslim versus Hindu. In Europe and the United States if s white hating 
black and, depending on time and circumstance, many different groups finding 
reason to hate each other. 

Are we heading toward a time in the near future when we will destroy our- 
selves? It is seen that the greed of man is truly causing destruction to our very 
planet! The blood of the earth, oil, is being constantly pumped out to fuel man's 
passion for an energy source that not only is finite but, in the process, the byproducts 
are polluting our oceans, rivers, skies and the very air we breathe. These and the 
byproducts of other chemical production are polluting the world we live in, 
irreparably.....at least that world that which we and many generations to come 
shall know. Besides hate, greed is the most blinding of emotions. 

What events will transpire, resulting from the proliferation of nuclear 
weapons around the world, to further destroy our planet? Do not be so naive as to 
think that they are not now in the hands of those that would use them without 
consideration of the results. It has been predicted by astrologers for many, many 
years that there will be great, horrific happenings for the world before the turn of 
this century. The predictions range from nuclear war to earthquakes, tidal waves to 
volcanoes erupting around the globe. One thing is sure, whether the descriptions 
purported by Nostradamous, Sage Brghu or the many modern psychics and 
astrologers, there will be some difficult karma for the planet before the 1990’s are 
over. Is it all predestined? Is there nothing that can be done about it? 

Hate exists due to illusion. Men become frustrated in their attempts to rule 
nature and to enjoy the gratification of their physical senses. The illusion that”I am 
the master of all I survey" permeates all societies today on the planet. As any 
happiness is always temporary and must be interspersed with varying amounts of 
distress, they turn on each other in frustration. They blame the other's very existence 
for causing their material maladies. Then there is escalation of this illusion, fed by 
the false ego which tells them they are better than anyone else. Men are actually so 


arrogant as to believe that, by dint of their country of origin, race, or creed, they are 
superior to another. This is pure illusion. 

The reality is that we are not English, French, Russian, Jew, Muslim, African, 
etc. These are bodily designations having nothing to do with who we really are. As 
zm astrologer I examine a person's horoscope to see what karma they have brought 
with them to this birth in the present body. What pleasures will be enjoyed and 
what pains must be endured are told there. The very number of breaths we are 
allotted during this life, thus determining our life span, is also told. You may today 
be English and, having grown up in “merrie old England", are quite attached to 
home and country. When returning after being away for some time, you feel a feeling 
of gladness to be back "home" and thus some sense of satisfaction. This very feeling 
is felt by all other peoples around the world, whether in India, Sweden, Brazil, or 
Switzerland. Everyone identifies, to some degree, with their place of birth being 
somehow superior or special. Everyone is in this same illusion. 

A human being is, in fact, capable of degrading himself so far that he is not 
even offered a chance at another human birth for the next “body”. It can be that a 
person who lives "like a pig" in this life, misusing the great boon of human life 
which is meant to acquire knowledge, takes the body of a pig in the next life. 
Whatever the body, it is not really US. We are not the bodies we presently dwell in, 
nor any we have inhabited in past lives, nor any we may be born into in future 
lives. We are spiritual sparks, known as the soul, which is never born nor dies and 
can never be extinguished. WE are eternal - these bodies are not. They are given to 
allow us to fulfil our desires for sense gratification exclusively, or to allow us to act 
in ways that will enable us to gain knowledge of our true identities and duties as 
human beings. The culmination is to find out the solution for the real problems of 
birth, death, old age and disease. Nobody wants to become ill, grow old, or die but 
it is assured that we must. 


So is mere a force to combat this great power of illusion that causes men to 
hate each other to the point of wanting to enslave or annihilate? Is there a way to 
soften the blow of this karma that is predestined to cause malefic happenings to 
befall us? There is - LOVE is the answer. Only love can destroy hatred. Only 
knowledge can destroy ignorance and illusion. If the leaders of our societies will 
not listen and heed this call to sanity before it is too late, then we must do all we 
can on our own. Awareness of our true spiritual identity will dispel the illusions 
we live in due to identification solely with our bodies. Why must men always wish 
to control with unlimited power? It is unfulfilable lust and greed to possess more 
than is necessary, to control others and what they may temporarily possess that 
causes hatred. 

Without a spiritual renaissance we are hurtling to our destruction. Even in 
this men are so arrogant as to believe that the religion of THEIR country is the only 
true one, that only the name THEY utter is the true way of addressing the supreme. 
You and 1 have but one, or, at most, a few names we are called by. But is this true 
also of God, the Supreme?! ]f God is omnipotent than God is also unlimited. God 
takes so many forms and is worshiped in so many ways throughout the world. 
Therefore being omnipotent and unlimited, the source of all that is, God can have 
unlimited names, unlimited potencies, unlimited forms. God is seen by some as 
Allah, Jehovah, Krishna, Rama, or Buddha. God is seen by some in the majesty of 
nature's beauty in rivers, mountains, rainbows, or in the "fury of providence” in 


10 


earthquakes or other natural disturbances, even described in insurance company 
clauses as "acts of God". Hate, war, destruction of our environment and the lives of 
our fellow man due to ignorance are not "acts of God”. These are the results of the 
desires of those most firmly enmeshed in the illusion that they are their bodies, the 
desire to enjoy sense gratification and a false sense of superiority, based on their 
particular bodily designation. 

What of the mental depression that seems to plague so many people, almost, 
if not completely, robbing them of good quality of life? Did you know that in the 
West as much as 68% of women, and 42% of men, find themselves dealing with 
mental depression at some point in their lives? What causes depression and how 
can it be dealt with? Most people are able to continue with their duties in life and 
learn to bear this feeling without having it completely take them over, yet a 
percentage find it absolutely necessary to seek some form of help, from counselling to 
actually being institutionalized. Why do we get depressed for seemingly nothing 
special sometimes? Of course we all have to deal with sadness and disappoint- 
ments in life, but often depression occurs without any particular circumstance 
being the sole catalyst, just a general feeling of unhappiness and unfulfilment, 
leading, in extreme cases, to utter hopelessness and, sometimes, suicide. In today's 
modern world depression is becoming more and more of a problem for many people, 
especially in the Western world, where so-called scientifically advanced 
civilization is centred. What is so wrong with the way we live that mental health 
seems to be deteriorating in so many of us? 


The United States and Western Europe have the most burgeoning mental 
health businesses in the world. Virtually tens of thousands of people, seemingly 
successful in their lives, are regularly visiting psychologists, psychiatrists, psycho- 
analysts and similar practitioners. Furthermore this is in countries that have the 
highest standards of living in the world. As a matter of fact those that have the 
highest instances of depression have no lacking in the necessities of life. However, 
if you go to countries in Asia, even to economically deprived places within India etc. 
you find that people are not so troubled mentally and clinical depression, neurosis 
and psychosis are relatively rare. Why in the places where the greatest strides have 
been made scientifically are there the greatest amount of mental health problems? 

The reason is the difference in philosophical outlooks on life in the world. In 
the West we are an almost fatalistic society, putting all our concentration on success 
in this life materially. Death and what occurs during and after this transition is 
rarely spoken of. Most people don't want to think about it, let alone make some 
effort to learn how to prepare while they are alive in these bodies. Nevertheless, no 
matter how much money and possessions you accumulate, how many friends and 
lovers you have, or how close knit your family, city, or country, there is always a 
nagging feeling of "is this all there is to life?”. 1 know so many people around the 
world that, although extremely prosperous materially, are also extremely unsatis- 
fied. Most of us have our ideas of what it would take to make us happy in life and 
generally it centres on financial independence or wealth-building and relation- 
ships, yet, once achieved, there's an almost immediate letdown. We thought we 
would experience some form of bliss from the attainment of material goals and 
then find out it is short-lived. So what is the missing link, the key to being able to 
gain happiness in life? 

It lies in understanding our true nature as spirit and making spiritual, as well 


11 


as material advancement, while we are here. We cannot neglect either or we cannot 
attain any lasting satisfaction. There must be a balance of physical, mental and 
spiritual health. We must ask ourselves questions like "who am 1, really?” "who is 
God?" "what is the goal of human life?" "where have I come fromand where am I 
going after this life"? 

With spiritual recognition there comes hopefulness, rather than hopelessness. 
We are born into these bodies carrying our karma from previous incarnations with 
us. When we die, or leave this body, that is all we will take with us. All of our 
possessions and relationships, based on bodily identification, will be finished at the 
time of death. Therefore it is useless to make plans to stay here forever. Although 
Westerners don't like to discuss this, no one can deny that he or she will grow old 
and die. We must find out how to gain knowledge of the soul and what is our true 
desire above and beyond our bodily identifications. Fear is bom of ignorance and 
it is said that knowledge is the torchlight which dispels the darkness of ignorance. 
Because in India and many other Eastern countries there is at least some under- 
standing of karma and reincarnation, or transmigration of the soul, there is much 
less mental sickness among the populace. People understand that this life is not the 
end and that only self-realization can bring happiness and peace of mind. We must 
give greater concentration to that which is our eternal position in life, not just 
concentrating on things based on our bodies, which are temporary. 


More important than this is "action" in the present life. Action shapes destiny. 
Our work in this lifetime not only creates karma for future lifetimes but shapes the 
present destiny shown by the astrological horoscope. Action, or activities, is there- 
fore the deciding factor, in determining how this lifetime will actually turn out. 
Proper action can greatly lessen the effects of "negative" karma, resulting from 
activities performed in ignorance in a previous life and it can also increase 
"positive" karma, earned through activities performed in knowledge, or goodness, 
in a previous incarnation. 

Accordingly astrology is meant to make us think about our true spiritual 
nature and what our "real" activities should be, for the true goal of human life is 
spiritual knowledge, leading to transcendence of the material stratosphere. What is 
the point of repeating birth after birth, only to become immersed in materialism 
time and time again? If I must give up everything I've worked so hard for in this 
life at the time of death, then my work in acquiring material things is obviously not 
the goal. Any sane person can understand that at the time of death, everything in 
relation to the present body is finished. We cannot take anything of this world with 
us. Therefore, it should lead us on a quest to discover transcendence, or our spiritual 
nature, for this is eternal. What activities will lead to discovering the truth of life 
and of true self? In other words what activities will guide you on the path of self- 
realization? If material activities only produce that which is impermanent and we 
are actually eternal living beings, there must be activities that will produce results 
of a permanent nature. Results that can go to the next life at the time of death. 

The real message and usefulness of the holy science of astrology is to cause an 
awareness of and interest in spiritual contemplation. It is of the utmost importance 
in life that we begin to discover our true selves and our true nature of happiness 
and love. How to do so? The Vedas give so many ways of advancing on the path, 
as do the higher precepts of all religions. 

Begin by asking the most important questions of life. The real problems of 


12 


material life are birth, death, old age and disease. Js there a way to solve these 
problems? Most assuredly there is and it is our birthright to know these answers. 
Think about it, seek out a lecture or attend a seminar on Vedic astrology. This will 
put you on a path from which you'll never want to stray. The path to perfect physical, 
mental and spiritual health. We must learn to balance all three to live a complete, 
happy and satisfying life. 

The science of vedic astrology is a great tool for helping us to understand 
ourselves as spiritual entities who have taken these bodies due to our own previous 
actions. Whatever one does, good or bad, creates karma. Good actions will allow 
one to take a desirable body and be granted material pleasures, This can mean 
rebirth in a "well-to-do" or religious family, on this planet or in promotion to 
planets beyond this universe where the conditions are far more "heavenly" than 
we experience here on earth. Harmful actions will ensure a more miserable birth in 
the next life. From horoscopes we can tell so much about ourselves and therefore 
make proper decisions in fife to make advancement, not only to ensure material 
happiness but to gain some degree of spiritual happiness, building and advancing 
in spiritual consciousness from birth to birth. Only then can we successfully deal 
with depression and its debilitating effects on human life. 


To gain spiritual happiness, or spiritual knowledge, requires a bona-fide 
teacher, or "guru", as they are often termed, that is sufficiently advanced to be able 
to impart spiritual knowledge to others. Such teachers are not easily found so, 
whatever your beliefs or particular inclinations in philosophy and religion, give 
these more importance inyour life. Seek answers from a higher source. In countries 
where simple living and high thinking are prevalent there is a more pervasive 
atmosphere of satisfaction in life. Think about it, then do something about it. We 
are "piloting our own planes" in this lifetime. If you seek truth, you will find it. 
Your action shapes your destiny, so it's up to you. By adopting such an attitude of 
mind and by associating with more spiritually-inclined companions you will have 
a greater chance of finding answers and meeting those from whom you can learn. 
Question everything to be sure you are not being "milked" by the unscrupulous. 
The best test is that no true teacher is out to make a substantial material gain from 
students, for to do so would only create bad karma for the teacher. 


So what will be the outcome? Will love win out over hate and make the earth 
a paradise, as some believe? Unfortunately, the answer is no. It is not possible to 
change those that are hell bent on their own destruction, as well as the destruction 
of our planet, to achieve their selfish aims. But those of us mat do have the spark of 
love within our hearts can fan that spark into a flame and, eventually, into a raging 
inferno. We can combat the hatred in the world by spreading as much love to all 
we can. It is the most powerful force, capable of changing the face of the world. We 
cannot get rid of the hatred that permeates those in ignorance completely but we 
can greatly reduce its influence by spreading love and good-will toward all we are 
able. In this way we have the chance of changing enough of the world and the 
consciousness of people to make a difference. How to start? Try to smile. Wish 
good on those around you, as well as yourself. Feel good about what you do and 
say, for we all know truth and right from wrong within our hearts. You will find 
yourself happy, healthy and well-adjusted in all spheres of life. Go in peace, or as 
they say in Hawa ii... "Aloha". 


13 


RELATIONSHIP COMPATIBILITY 
USING ASTROLOGY 


So many people nowadays are experiencing problems in their relationships and 
could well benefit by utilizing the science of astrology to understand themselves, as 
well as their partner, or prospective partner. When I’m asked to do compatibility 
charts for couples, I begin by doing each of their lifetime horoscopic charts. 1 will 
then compare the two using the eastern astrological system of comparison for 
marriage but most importantly I look at the two individuals, their goals in life and 
the way they think and act. These things can be understood by careful analysis of 
the horoscope. 

Generally, when two people want to be together and are considering a more 
permanent relationship, there is already some love and affection. This is very 
important. There must be a genuine attraction, both sexual and otherwise, to be 
happy as a couple. Then there must be avenues for communication and under- 
standing to achieve a lasting and fulfiling relationship. Being life partners is not all 
easy and simple, as we humans are emotional beings. The attitudes and thought 
patterns of the two people are what we need to be most concerned about. The initial 
infatuation eventually fades somewhat, so there must be realization that this will 
happen and you must share enough common ground to raise the relationship to 
higher and higher levels as life goes on. 

Therefore each needs to understand the other's desires, mannerisms and ways of 
thinking in order to make a relationship work. | usually sit the two down for a 

rivate consultation, separately. The reason is to be able to give each a chance to 

ok at themselves honestly and to let them try to understand their partner's mind, 
without comment from the partner during the consultation. I try to first get a person 
to look at themselves objectively, their goals and desires, what their true capabilities 
are and what they really are willing to sacrifice for the sake of a relationship. There 
is always some give and take to have a successful relationship, but our basic 
natures do not change. You must understand your own mind and the way you 
think. Then you can try to understand your partner's, for neither of you are going 
to change in that way. We are who we are. We have developed our personalities 
and natures over countless lifetimes, not just this one and you cannot do an 
"about-face" overnight. We can learn to change the way we speak at certain times, 
get control over our lower nature that may cause problems in our communication, 
or the way we externally react to the world, or learn new communication skills, but 
you cannot change your basic mental faculties, or your modes of perception. We 
can always improve ourselves but that must come from within. 


If a person thinks they can "change" a prospective partner, they are mistaken. 
A person may allow themselves to be pushed or bullied but it only leads to 
resentment and dissatisfaction in the relationship. If you love someone, then try to 
understand and accept them as they are. Generally I point out how the other partner 
thinks in different areas and try to teach "personal" communication skills, meaning 
ways of communicating with each other to keep harmony in the relationship and 
definite "no-no's" not to use in communication. 

We all have ways that we react, as individuals. The key to a successful 
relationship lies in communication. We may not be able to change our mental 


1 


capacity and personality but everyone can learn good communication skills to 
improve the way they get along in all relationships, not just marital type ones. I try 
to point out the things that definitely will cause arguments and discord. These may 
be in ways of talking, acting, or reacting to things you might say or do. The things 
that will cause problems should be cerebral buttons, marked with a big, red X.... 
not to touch. The ways of speaking and acting that will promote greater harmony, 
should be practiced at 2 ery opportunity. Whilst we can learn to modify our 
behaviour, it’s usually impossible to completely change basic nature. 

One of the areas where | do a great deal of work is dealing with abusive relation- 
ships. lf two people know the things that set each other off, they can learn how not 
to let it happen. Anger control is something that many people need to Jearn. Many 
times relationships start to break apart due to things people say to each other in 
anger. You don't have to say everything you think! If you have a problem with too 
much anger within your mind, learn to expel the negative energy in more 
constructive ways. If you are thinking, “you @#$&*%*&”......... DON'T say it! 
Hold your tongue until you cool off. 99% of the time, in a short while, you will 
realize you didn't really mean the things you were thinking. 1t was just anger in 
your mind, often the root of which being something completely unrelated to your 
partner. If you did not blow up and say what you were thinking at that moment, 
then you'll have nothing to apologize for later. Your partner may forgive you for 
this type of intrusion, if it does happen, but they cannot forget. Think about it. 
How many times do couples fight about things they really don't care about,or hurt 
each other with words they later wish they had never said? Most couples ruin their 
relationship by saying things out of anger, or worse, by violent reactions leading to 
physical abuse. 

In looking at a couple's compatibility ] try to show each of them the buttons to 
push to make their partner feel good, loved and appreciated. Then I show them the 
buttons never to push if they want the relationship to last. By objectively learning 
more about what really makes the other tick, they can learn how to best react in 
certain situations and how not to react. Sometimes it’s necessary to modify certain 
types of behaviour that a person has never even realized was not in their best interests, 
the best interests of others, or they were never aware of at all! After some practice, 
the new behavioural traits become second nature and don't require so much men- 
tal concentration. The result is that you become a better communicator, allowing 
you greater success in all endeavours of life involving other people. Remember 
that almost everything we do is 90% communication. After the consultation 1 then 
leave it up to the couple to decide if they can make this relationship work. Most of 
the time couples do, once they know how. 


Generally 1 find that a couple that learns early on how to communicate efficiently 
and learn enough about what's inside each other's mind and heart, become 
determined to make their relationship work. It’s not hard, because they are so 
much in love. Remember how easy it seemed in the beginning of your relationship 
to put up with almost anything? (Even your lover's less than becoming personal 
habits seemed cute! 1’m sure everyone has had experience of this, at some time or 
another.)Therefore it's easier earlier on in a relationship to stave-offfuture problems, 
avoiding them as much as is humanly possible. 

Obviously some matches are better than others. Two people that have similar 
ways of thinking will have less trouble getting along and understanding each 


16 


other's motives in their actions. Those that are complete opposites and have 
completely different goals will find it much more difficult to make the relationship 
work, in the long run. The more information we have about our partner's likes, 
dislikes, goals in life, personality and basic way of thirtking, the easier it is to modify 
somewhat certain ways of speaking or acting, to make communication more joyful 
between the two of you. Remember, you want to be able to talk to this person and 
be with this person for a lifetime. We all want to be loved, cared for and under- 
stood. We often have different ways of thinking or expressing ourselves and this is 
natural, because we are all individuals. Knowledge of how to most effectively 
communicate with the most important person in your life is vital to a successful 
relationship. 


I have seen many couples derive new plateaus of understanding each other 
through the use of astrology. It enables them to gain deeper insights into each 
other’s way of thinking, feeling, willing and acting, thus helping them to develop 
together in a way that is mutually satisfying and fulfiling. At the other extreme 
some compatibility charts help couples to realize that they could never modify 
their behaviour in such a way as to make it work. This shows the relationship in a 
proper light, possibly avoiding devastating consequences later. 

Most couples learn things about each other and themselves that help them to 
communicate better and to not neglect the things that make the other's heart grow 
fonder. Love begins with physical attraction, most of the time, but making it blossom 
requires understanding, commitment and genuine compassion. Everyone can 
make their relationships work, if they have the skills and knowledge to do so. 
Everyone wants to be happy but it’s up to us to do something about it. Learn the 
keys to a happy and fulfiling relationship. Do it for the sake of yourself and that 
special someone, who will certainly come into your life one day, if they have not 
already. 


17 


HUMAN SEXUALITY 


A discussion of human sexuality inevitably leads to an analysis of what traits 
are inherently male and which are inherently female. Yin and yang, as the two 
energies are termed in Chinese philosophy, are present in us all. This is seen in our 
physical bodies and projected through our personalities to reflect the inner desires. 
In today’s world the mixture of yin and yang in both males and females seems to 
be in many cases, almost equal, with a leaning toward the feminine side in most 
women and more so toward the male side, inthe cases of most men. 

The incidence of homosexuality also seems to be greater than ever before in 
history. Are women more yang and have men begun to experience feelings and 
emotions that are more yin than previously known? Are there more gays and lesbians 
bom now? Why is it that, in general, homosexuals are actually bom with an inherent 
"same sex" desire for sexual relationships and why do they seem to be overly 
endowed with traits of the opposite gender? To begin with we must examine how 
we come into these human forms and how it happens that we are bom male or 
female. 

As previously stated the astrological science is based on the spiritual science 
of transmigration of the soul, or reincarnation. We are spirit souls. Our gender is 
understood on the basis of what body we happen to be born into in this life. Most 
of us have had countless births previous to this one we are presently living and 
have been in the both gender bodies. In the case of many homosexuals it is seen 
that an opposite gender personality exists from that of the physical body. By chart- 
ing an astrological horoscope based on a person's time of birth, date of birth and 
place of birth, we can understand the predetermined destiny of someone. How is 
this possible? It is because we choose Our conditions of life due to our desires and 
how we try to fulfil them in life. It shows what the destiny of a person is and how 
easy or difficult it will be to alter it or to push it beyond perceived limits. Actions 
determine how destiny unfolds, so an astrological horoscope will show what 
actions should be taken up by the person to fulfil desires, materially and spiritually. 
According to the individual's karma different actions will be easier or more 
difficult to perform and results will be easier or more difficult to attain. Action is 
the key factor here, once you have an in depth perspective based on the horoscope, 
butcertain things may be beyond the reach or scope of a person. 


It seems that throughout history men had certain clearly defined roles in society, 
as did women. There was not such a close equality in many circumstances as we 
see today. Why is that? The reason is due to the changing world and the definition 
of gender responsibility changing. Men and women have had to change to survive. 
As these changes occur from birth to birth, especially psychologically, women learn 
to develop male traits to be able to fulfil their own desires. Men do as well, in the 
other direction. We learn from the "Vedas" that men would care for women, see to 
it that they were protected and that their desires were fulfiled, to as great a degree 
as possible. Women were respected and revered. They were protected as children by 
their fathers and family, by their husbands in marriage and by their sons when in 
old age. Women were able to live happily and peacefully. They could trust and 
believe in their men and a spiritual basis for life was ever realized. There was peace 
and harmony between the sexes. Men fulfiled their responsibilities toward women, 
themselves, their families, communities and, above all else, the responsibility 


19 


to act in accordance with the laws of nature. Women would care for and 
nurture their men and fulfil their own responsibilities to themselves, their children 
and the community. They were not forced to take an independent stand. They were 
not used or abused, therefore they did not have the same fears and anxieties 
currently prevalent. Children were not solely their responsibility either, as it often 
turns out today, as an unfortunate result of divorce. 

In the modern world things are vastly different and these very dearly defined 
lines between the sexes have all but disappeared. Men have taken an attitude of 
less and less responsibility toward women, their progeny. community, etc. If 
women didn't learn to fend for themselves they would be‘completely lost. Women 
have also taken an attitude, especially here in the West, of wanting to deal in the so 
called "world of men" in work, business and the market-place. To be able to 
accomplish this they must develop their inherent maleness to a greater degree. 
There are no longer any clear cut lines. Often it's sink or swim. Nobody else is 
there to do it for you. 

So how do we deal with these differences in expression of sexuality to make 
our personal, intimate relationships succeed? Astrology can provide great insights 
to allow a person to understand themselves and their needs more objectively, thus 
developing more of a balance to be able to succeed in relationships. Partners can 
objectively understand each other, learn to respect the strengths and not exploit the 
weaknesses in each other. There is such an almost equal mixture of yin and yang 
today in many people, especially externally in the roles of women, that to under- 
stand yourself objectively through astrology can go a long way in boosting self 
esteem and comfort with your own being. If you are well adjusted and happier 
with yourself, not feeling that you should be different, then you can be more open 
and supportive of a partner, gaining greater fulfilment in a relationship. 

I do many horoscopes for women where there is a very strong Mars in the 
birth chart, indicating great strength to accomplish things in this world and little 
likelihood that these women will want to surrender to a man's ideas of what they 
should be like, or how they should relate to others in the world. Why should they, 
anyway? In my work 1 find more women searching and contemplating how to help 
themselves and the world in general than ever before. Slowly, but surely, 1 see 
more men opening up to change and dealing with their feminine emotional side, 
also to make positive changes needed in their lives. The reasons are more difficult 
to pinpoint but it is obvious that we humans need tools to help us understand 
ourselves, our desires and our positions in this world. The more you know about 
yourself, where you've come from and where your present course is taking you, 
the more able you will be to act in such a way as to direct your own destiny. 
Problems of sexuality can be understood and dealt with, changing them from detri- 
ments to assets We can learn how best to direct ourselves, using all the inherent 
qualities with which we are born. The problems are born of ignorance; the solutions 
are born of knowledge. Gain knowledge of yourself and you will assuredly be able 
to get all out of life that you possibly can. 


DISCOVERING YOUR POTENTIAL & 
CHOOSING A CAREER 


Today there seems to be a plethora of self-help programmes for unleashing 
inner potentials, developing self-confidence and learning to not be your own 
hindrance in life. There are even some that tout their own particular "get rich" 
scheme, showing themselves to be an example of why "anyone can do it". These 
programmes are not cheap. There is an array of hands-on seminars, lectures, tapes, 
books, etc. that are said, by their creators, to give anyone the training to become 
successful, either in a particular field, or just in general. In essence, many of these 
self-help programmes teach worthy concepts of positive thinking and self- 
determination. 

Ihave met many people that have sent away for these programmes after seeing 
a very powerful television marketing tool known as an “infomercial”. These are 
very popular today, especially in America. Depending on a person's skills and 
fund of knowledge in general, the actual product is reviewed by customers from 
"something I already knew” to "it changed my life". The general self-help 
programmes have some value but, in the case of those that teach a specific method 
of earning or a particular business (such as property investment), they will not 
work in all cases. These programmes are based on the premise that anyone can 
achieve success at this same engagement, if only someone shows you how. In fact, 
this is not possible. 

An individual's horoscope reveals what the potential is for career success as 
well as for wealth-building. What types of engagements would be successful is 
also seen. One thing to remember is that we are all individuals. We maintain this 
individuality always, in life and in death. Your existence is always seen to have 
individuality. Some of us are, more or less, emotional beings, have different 
degrees of logic and, of course, have distinct likes and dislikes according to our 
perceptions of life. Through the use of astrology we can understand not only a 
person's nature, but concentrate on what actions would bring about the greatest 
degrees of success. Due to being individuals with different ways of thinking, feeling 
and willing, we don't all do things the same way. It would be an awfully boring 
world if we were all the same. "Different strokes for different folks” is an adage 
that generally rings true. 


Whether it is in career, marriage or whatever, having your horoscope to use 
as a guide is an invaluable tool. When you have knowledge of what to do, how to 
go about it and at what time, your chances of success are greatly increased. 
Through the birth chart we can make an analysis of exactly which courses of action 
will be along the path of least resistance. Then we can learn the skills, use self-help 
programmes to improve our confidence and communication skills, if necessary, 
thereby operating at our peak "personal power". Often you had a good deal of this 
knowledge within you but it took the validation through the horoscope to allow 
you to accept it. You are then more able to capitalize on your strengths in learning 
further skills to achieve your ambitions in all spheres of life, physical, emotional 
and spiritual. 


Many positions within a horoscope suggest success in fields from medicine to 
law, to real property, to all sorts of things. What one person can succeed in is not 


21 


necessarily the same thing in which another can achieve success. If you engage in 
something that you enjoy and feel comfortable doing, you will,naturally, be more 
successful. Lef s reflect on just how most of us go about taking a career direction 
and making this important decision that will affecthow we spend most of our 
waking hours for the rest of this life. 

Until the twentieth century boys would generally go into whatever field or 
business their fathers were in, or were apprentices to someone the family knew, in 
order to learn a trade. It was more or less determined by birth what career you 
would undertake to earn a livelihood. Girls were, for the most part, brought up 
learning to cook, sew, take care of a house and children, etc. It was accepted that 
they would marry and dedicate their lives to their family. It was rare that a woman 
chose to do another engagement and society frowned upon it, which would make 
it all the more difficult to do. 

Today the world is a different place. Young men and women don't usually 
know what they want to do until they are older, sometimes not until they’ve 
reached their late twenties and even then many haven't made a decision as to a 
career. Our society allows greater freedom of choice in everything, for both the 
sexes. Many young people finish higher education with a degree and find that they 
still aren't sure what they want to do, or that they cannot get employment in their 
chosen field. How is someone to make an intelligent choice as to a career direction? 
Often young people aren't particularly attracted to any particular job or field and 
they just eventually randomly pick something. They need money for the necessities 
of life, just like their parents and grandparents before them. Therefore, often by 
their forties, many feel unfulfilled in their careers and are frustrated by being 
forced to continue doing something they have no desire to do. 1 say forced because, 
by then, most adults have financial responsibilities to family, etc. and it’s not possible 
to start again, even if they did know what they'd be happier doing. 


Astrology can show us directions to take in our career that will be easier, 
more profitable and generally more fulfiling. Wouldn't it be nice to know this 
when deciding on a career? When people do something that is in keeping with 
their nature and they find it interesting, or challenging, they gain greater peace of 
mind. What could be more wonderful than that and what a blessing to be able to 
avert choices that may ultimately lead to boredom, dissatisfaction, or failure? 
Doing something that you have the most potential of succeeding in gives the greatest 
chance of satisfaction and fulfilment. How many people do you know that work at 
jobs that they hate or, at best, simply tolerate out of necessity? Wouldn’t it be nice 
to be able to do something that you find not only interesting but that you actually 
enjoy? Think about how much time in our lives is spent at our employment. 
Instead of feeling unfulfilled, or cheated by destiny, why not find out what types of 
work would be not only more interesting but would bring you the most success? 
Usually today we choose an occupation on the basis of pay, but not everyone that 
does the same thing gets the same pay, nor feels as satisfied doing their job. 
Successfully choosing a fulfiling career that offers one the greatest chance of suc- 
cess is another example of how astrology can make a practical difference in our 
lives, those of our children, other loved ones or friends. 


PROSPERITY AND POSITIVE THINKING 
DOES IT REALLY WORK? 


Today there are so many programmes for success and prosperity through 
positive thinking and mental determination. There are many practitioners who use 
a myriad of terms to describe their form of manifesting your desires through the 
power of your mind. Does it really work? If so, how does it work? Can you get 
anything you want by being determined mentally? 

As I've stated many times before, not everyone can be successful at the same 
thing, nor attain their success following the exact same programme. We are, eter- 
nally, individuals as spirit souls and here, on earth, in our bodily forms. 
Conjunctions in certain persons’ charts make success likely in certain areas of business 
or employment, whereas others would have an extremely hard time. Therefore I 
try to steer a person in the direction of least resistance, as you might say. 

What of the theory that positive thinking can make you successful and that to 
succeed you only require dedication and perseverance? The answer is that it does 
work. If you do not have the capacity to succeed easily in a certain area, your sub- 
conscious often knows this, regardless of the conscious mind. If you apply yourself 
religiously, in a disciplined fashion, using your mental faculties to visualize your 
success, you will most definitely attain success far beyond what would otherwise 
be possible. As you sow, so you shall reap. Therefore, if you're able to apply 
yourself 100%, your success is assured. This is not easy, though. It requires sincere 
dedication. 

What do we mean by “prosperity”? If wealth building is what you're after, you 
will also have to gain the knowledge of business in general, product knowledge of 
what you're attempting to sell and of how to discipline yourself to attain your 
goals. Nothing comes without dedication; this is a key factor. One of the most 
important things is to dedicate yourself to something that you believe in. It’s prac- 
tically impossible to succeed at something, or truly believe in yourself and what 
you are doing if you don't like the activity. Next it requires total dedication, so be 
ready to give up almost everything else. Read books by famous businessmen and 
see how much time and effort they put into work. A man like Donald Trump 
sleeps only four hours a night and is engaged in some form of intense negotiations, 
planning, keeping up to date, etc. practically every waking hour. If this is what you 
want, try to follow the example of someone like this and see if if s possible. Though 
many people propound to desire great wealth, there are few that can put out the 
amount of energy to obtain it. Write down your goals and desires. Make a list of 
short-range goals, for this week, month and year. Then make a list of long range 
goals. Where do you want to be in one year, two years, five years, twenty years? 
Take a look at what you've written and see how practical the goals are. Then set 
yourself a daily discipline to get there. Success comes one day at a time, not 
overnight Of course there are the exceptions where someone wins the "pools" or 
"premium bonds", but this is karma earned in a previous lifetime and, as such, is 
not a practical goal. You cannot work for it, or set it as a goal. If you did, your 
chances of success would be almost nil. However everyone can become successful 
and prosperous, through positive thinking. I have done horoscopes of people that 


23 


CONSCIOUSNESS AND SPIRITUALITY 


There are three basic levels of consciousness that human beings exist in during 
their waking hours. The first and most fundamental level of consciousness is the 
sensual platform. This is a level where we are mostly concerned with pleasures 
enjoyed with our external senses. On this level we are thinking about the necessities 
of physical life and sense gratification. There is concern for eating and for sleeping, 
which is necessary, but often most people also consider it a great pleasure, especially 
to sleep for longer periods of time, when at all possible. 

Then there is great emphasis put on sexuality. How we feel sexually and how 
we relate it to others. This is no doubt the most important thing in the world to 
most people, especially in youth. We worry about our appearance and how others 
view us. Much concentration is put on being a good lover and how sexually attractive 
we are. There is no doubt that, for many, this is the single most dominating thing 
that they worry about. 

Then there is our defence mechanism. We work during life and accumulate 
possessions, families, friends, etc. We wish to protect these things so that we may 
enjoy them as long as possible. "As long as possible” is the key here as, whatever 
we accumulate on the sensual platform, however fit and strong the body may be, 
however attractive we are to others......: itis only temporary. The pleasures diminish 
from these things as our bodies age and our concern dwindles, as we experience 
discomfort and illnesses brought about by eternal time. 

This sensual platform is a platform of consciousness that human beings share 
with the animal kingdom. Although people eat, sleep, mate and defend in a highly 
polished or, so-called "advanced", fashion, the animals also engage in these activities. 

The next platform of consciousness is the intellectual platform. This is the 
platform on which we delve into the "why" and "wherefore" of this material 
world. We speculate and experiment with so many sciences pertaining to this 
world. We use our brains to develop ideas and solutions to problems, both of the 
body and the mind. In this mode we try to understand, with our minds, everything 
around us and sometimes within us. Intelectualism-is necessary for man to create 
things and maintain them in this world for our use. 

Philosophical thinking and religiosity also begin on the intellectual platform. 
Man uses his mind and whatever experience he has to ask questions and try to find 
answers. The intellect is used in every decision we make, constantly weighing 
possibilities and the "pros and cons" to everything. Science relies on intellectuals 
to test speculative theory to find answers. Empirical philosophers, who rely on 
their minds solely to understand philosophy and religion, are on this intellectual 
platform. They think about an idea or concept, then come to a hypothesis according 
to the dictates of their own minds. The only outside influence entertained as possibly 
valid is another philosopher's mental speculation that fits the same logic. 
Therefore, this platform of consciousness, as with the sensual platform, is solely of 
this world. Scientists and philosophers are attempting to understand everything in 
this universe or beyond, using only their limited experiences here on earth and 
whatever speculations come to their minds not of their experience. The material 
self, mind and body, is considered the “all in all”. 


The third level of consciousness is the transcendental platform. Only by 
aspiration for consciousness on this level can the secrets of life, here and beyond, 


25 


be revealed. This is the platform on which man realizes he is eternal, a spiritual 
entity that inhabits this body for some time, then leaves it for another to further 
advance on the spiritual path. A seeker must adopt real spiritual practice to attain 
this platform of consciousness. On this level man sees with equal vision. He sees 
all others as spiritual beings covered by different degrees of ignorance from their 
contact with the material energy. The qualities of goodness begin to be prevalent in 
the personality. Compassion for other living entities grows within the heart and, 
not only is he less judgmental towards other people, but there is compassion for 
the poor defenceless living entities who, by instinct, dwell on the platform of 
sensuality. A true transcendentalist will no more contribute to the unnecessary 
slaughter of animals than they would engage in cannibalism to satisfy the palate. 
When a seeker begins to see the world with spiritual vision, he begins to see God 
in everyone and everything. Instead of excessive lust, greed and avarice, he begins 
to feel love and compassion for all. On this platform begins the life of the heart, 
showing the true goals of human life and the futility of attempting to fashion a 
permanent home here becomes apparent. while demands of the body and life here 
must be met, this is not the best use of our advanced intelligence. 


We need to ask the most important questions of "who am 1?, how did 1 get 
here?, who is God?, what is my relationship with God?, and what is the way of 
transcendence?”. Once beginning this quest on the intellectual platform the seekers 
can raise their consciousness to the spiritual or transcendental platform through 
practice, only they need to leamhow. What can we do to connect with the supreme 
energy? How to transcend this bodily platform and attain permanent satisfaction 
and happiness that does not die along with the body? How can we attain peace of 
mind... freedom from anxiety in our lives? 

The secret is explained in the Vedas of ancient India. These texts are the oldest 
known to man and contain knowledge in the sciences of this world as well as 
beyond. The most important part of the vedas give explanations of the nature of 
the soul. There is knowledge of God and the process of realizing our connection to 
God. The practice of yoga teaches about the body, mind, spirit and how to 
correlate all three to attain spiritual consciousness. Yoga means to "link up" with 
the Supreme or God. 

In ancient times yogis had to perform many austerities to reach transcendental 
consciousness. They learned, over many years of practice, how to control prana, 
the life airs of the body, to attain the spiritual goals. This was done through physical 
processes and the yogi would also control the mind, going into meditative trance. 

Today it is all but impossible to perfect this type of yoga system. There are 
incredible benefits to practicing hatha yoga, physically, mentally and spiritually, 
but the meditative state is of the utmost importance. In this age our lifespans are 
not very long, less than 100 years and our minds are as impossible to control as trying 
to control the wind. Some advancement can be made, but perfection is not possible 
without "mantra" meditation. A mantra transcendental sound vibration such as, 
“Om Narayanaya namaha”;... “Om Shivaya namaha”;... “Aum”;... "Hare 
Krishna";... etc. is described in the vedas as having the potency to raise the mind's 
consciousness to the transcendental platform. By finding a quiet place to meditate 
and repeating a bona-fide mantra, coming from the transcendental stratosphere, 
some degree of self-realization can start to be achieved, providing the answers to 
the mysteries of life and the true goals of human life. 


26 


One most important thing to be noted is that it's essential to find a teacher 
who has sufficient knowledge and spiritual realization to help you on this path to 
transcendence. Supersoul, an expansion of the supreme, is in the heart of all. By 
beginning spiritual meditation, he or she turns within. Any false ego is shed and 
there is a connection with the spiritual energy of the universal creation. 

A great change begins to take place within your heart when you start this 
process. You begin to wish good on others, rather than being envious of them for 
their accomplishments. You begin to feel satisfied and anxiety free, widerstanding 
that everything is as it should be. You should do everything possible to attain your 
goals in life, but not to be unduly worried about the result. You must act, then 
leave the results up to providence. By learning how to uncover your dormant 
spiritual consciousness you learn a previously unknown sense of peace of mind, a 
sense which constantly grows, independent of any material conditions. 

I urge each and every one to begin some effort today to gain real peace 
through raising yourself to the transcendental platform. Do it for your REAL self, 
that eternal part of you that will never perish. When the power of real love permeates 
your being, you will know lasting happiness. Knowledge is light and ignorance is 
darkness. Stand in the light and the problems of this world will shrink to no more 
than "water in the hoofprint of a calf".* 


“Quote from A.C. Bhakticedanta Swami ina personal letter to the author. 


THE PRACTICALITY OF ASTROLOGY 


The use of an astrological horoscope is meant to be practical, not something 
that seems mystical and obscure. It is meant to be a tool for the accomplishment of 
life's duties and goals in the most advantageous manner. 1 have already earlier 
likened a horoscope to a detailed road-map for life. 

The reading you get from an astrologer, as well as your own further delving 
into the chart and introspection of its meanings, should have a practical basis. You 
want to be able to make fewer mistakes and better choices, in all areas of life. You 
can gain better health physically, mentally and spiritually, thus better enabling you 
to guide yourself on your own fife journey. 

I always stress that if an astrologer themselves seems to be greatly lacking in 
physical health, mental peace and the spiritual knowledge known to be based on a 
bona-fide source, they are not capable of being of any help to anyone else. 
"Physician heal thyself" is a well used, but true, cliche. 

You don't want some mystical sounding reading full of things having no 
bearing on your present situation, nor your future, in this lifetime and beyond. I 
have heard of astrologers giving all sorts of supposed "information" on many of a 
person's past lives and activities. This is generally not possible. Even the most 
advanced astrologer cannot understand further than one previous life and, even 
then, not in totality. Much of this "information" is absolutely impossible to 
substantiate by any accepted ancient texts on the subject and even if you think it 
valid, what purpose does it serve? 

In vedic astrology we look at certain areas of the chart to understand the 
preceding lifetime and the resultant natural direction of the next life, depending on 
how activities in the present life affect it. Further than this is pure conjecture and 
basically is useless to have any bearing on this life, even if it had some validity. 

We need to leam to live in the present and astrology should be used to help 
us make our present more successful, enjoyable and rewarding. You cannot enjoy 
life unless you learn to "be here now". Think about this for a moment. If we are 
always worrying about the past, thinking it to have made the present unfulfilling, 
it does just that. We must deal with how we have acted in the past, but it should be 
to learn from it and move on. Leam from your mistakes, then don't repeat them. To 
always be dwelling on the past will keep you from experiencing happiness in the 
present, or future times. Live, learn and use your knowledge for proper and 
rightful action. 

By the same token we should not always be living in the future. Astrology 
will show us our destiny and help us to set a proper course in life. With more 
complete knowledge of ourselves physically, emotionally and spiritually, we are 
able to perform the right actions to obtain the desired results. This is a fact but we 
shouldn't always be thinking of the future. Make plans, goals and vows to achieve 
success in all spheres of life. This takes careful consideration of the future, in this 
life as well as the next. Be careful not to constantly think of tomorrow, next week, 
next month, next year, etc. If you do then you cannot be peaceful today. Put con- 
centration on appreciating the world around you, stopping to "smell the roses”. In 
all that you feel, say and do, try to develop character and higher qualities. 

Human beings are meant to gain the advanced qualities of cleanliness of 
mind and body, truth, compassion, fairness, equanimity of mind, kindness, charity, 


29 


nonviolence, etc. leading to the ability to love. Real love is unconditional, not simply 
give and take. An astrologer's duty is to help a person understand themselves better 
in all ways, allowing practical activities to be undertaken to achieve real success, in 
all things. A reading should leave you feeling enlivened, determined to advance 
toward desired goals, in a rightful and honest way. You should have been given 
realistic and practical methods to gain in knowledge and skills to act in knowledge 
thereby insuring ultimate success. 

Your reading of the birth chart should enable you to enact a "rebirth" of sorts, 
allowing you to take the right directions and actions, from that day forth. When I 
hear someone say that they've had their birth chart done numerous times, it's 
obvious they did not get what they should have. We do yearly updates for clients, 
and other specialized types of astrological services, but one birth chart should be all 
you need in a lifetime to get the knowledge and direction for maximum enjoyment 
of life, in all citewmstances. Naturally, yearly charts can provide more detail and 
there are other more specific readings, as already mentioned, such as compatibility 
charts but, if a life chart has been done properly, it is final. Getting another one 
done should not alter the basic facts - all you are getting is another interpretation. 


30 


SUMMARY POINTS OF PART ONE 


Before beginning Part 2 on understanding your horoscope, let's review the 
major points of the first chapter which will also serve as a handy reference guide. 


PHYSICAL HEALTH 


1) Astrology can foresee probable ailments and weaknesses. To be forewarned is to 
be prepared and allows the situation to be avoided or reduced. 

2) Karma, the law of action and reaction, is the sum total of all our actions in a 
particular lifetime and directly creates the destiny for the future life. 

3) Look at your diet (a vegetarian diet is the only choice for maintaining proper 
health), environment, and type of work you do. Avoid processed, convenience 
foods. 

4) Sleep and rest as is necessary according to your age and circumstances. 

5) Exercise the body—-Do something!! (Hatha yoga is also recommended in the 
section on "Consciousness and Spirituality"). 


MENTAL, EMOTIONAL AND SPIRITUAL HEALTH 


1) Our true nature is spiritual. Learn the truth. Ignorance and fear create negative 
emotions, stress, and bewilderment 

2) Understanding reincarnation, or transmigration of the soul, shows us the absur- 
dity of narrowminded "nationalistic" or "racist" arguments. 

3) Hate and greed are the most blinding of emotions. 

4) The present materialistic attitude prevailing in the world is but an illusion. 

5) Our actions will harvest our next rebirth. As you sow, so shall you reap. Action 
shapes destiny! 

6) Unconditional, transcending love is the only way forward. 

7) Depression is caused by an ignorance of our true nature and purpose. Spiritual 
recognition brings hope, understanding, and sense of real purpose in life. 

8) Astrology identifies what our true actions should be individually. It arouses 
interest in and awareness of the spiritual realities of life. 

9) Learn to balance physical, mental (including emotional), and spiritual health 
needs. 

10) Try to find a good spiritual teacher/ Get a lifetime horoscope done by a bona- 
fide vedic astrologer. Study it and follow its guidance. Go with life's flow and learn 
from your mistakes. 

21) Learn to love yourself, your neighbour, ultimately the world and all of life. 
Smile and help make the world a better place. Spread love, not anger and hatred. 


RELATIONSHIP COMPATIBILITY 


1) Get individual life charts done and interpreted. 

2) Try to ensure basic compatibility before commitment to a permanent relation- 
ship. Make sure there is a basis of love and affection. 

3) Learn about each others qualities and attributes. 

4) Leam to communicate and how to listen. 

5) Control temper and speaking without thinking—your partner may forgive but 
won't forget. 


31 


HUMAN SEXUALITY 


1) Previous incarnations and the karmic balance cause the current bodily form. 

2) The changing world and roles have caused a need for changes in the sex role- 

play of each gender. Women are forced to be more independent to survive. Men 
ave conversely embraced some of the emotional traits of women. The gender gap 

has become narrower and blurred. 


DISCOVERING POTENTIAL AND 
CHOOSING A CAREER 


1) An astrological horoscope will indicate strengths, weaknesses, and propensities 
which, if acknowledged and utilized, will lead to success. 

2) Positive thinking helps along the chosen path. 

3) Choose something you enjoy. You should also find that you are successful as a 
natural consequence. 

4) The earlier in life a person receives guidance, the less frustrating will be career 
advancement In the east parents automatically get charts prepared for their children 
at birth. An early start in the right direction cannot be overemphasised. Western 
parents should give similar thought to this guidance for their children. 


PROSPERITY AND POSITIVE THINKING 


1) Prosperity is not defined as material success and wealth building. It is a feeling 
of happiness and satisfaction with life. It comes from spiritual development and 
self-realization and is built by development of our loving propensity. 

2) Whatever you desire you must plan for and dedicate yourself to achieving. 
Nothing comes without expending effortexcept for a very few who are reaping the 
rewards of extreme piety and righteous activity in past lives. 

3) You must believe in yourself and what you wish to achieve. Without such 
positive thought patterns, success of any significance is unlikely. 

4) Learn to plan. Write down short and long term goals, then dedicate and 
discipline yourself to achieve them. 

5) Wish love, peace and prosperity to all. "The power of love is a curious thing". 
(Opening line from the movie theme "Back to the Future".) 


CONSCIOUSNESS AND SPIRITUALITY 


1) Three levels of consciousness exist—Sensual (experienced also by the animal 
kingdom); Intellectual— the beginning of philosophical and material questioning; 
Transcendental — the realization of eternal spiritual growth. 

2) Seekers of wisdom and truth (on intellectual platform) must adopt real spiritual 
practice to attain to and progress beyond this level of consciousness. 

3) The practices of yoga and meditation (especially mantra meditation) are 
recommended, 


THE PRACTICALITY OF ASTROLOGY 


1) A Roadmap to Life— Make fewer mistakes, take less wrong turnings, be aware 
of what is ahead of you and where you have come from. 


32 


2) Make sure you have confidence in a chosen astrologer. Ensure all the features of 
the horoscope are explained clearly. 

3) Leam to live in and benefit from the present—’Stop to smell the roses”. 

4) Try to develop good character and higher qualities within yourself, especially 
truthfulness, compassion, charity, and nonviolence toward all creatures. 

5) Only one life chart should be necessary. Annual “yearly” charts provide a 
detailed map to the immediate part of your journey in this lifetime. 

6) No matter what your physical age it is never too late to make improvement and 
progress in life. 


THE PLANETS, SIGNS, AND HOUSES 
THE PLANETS:- 


In Vedic astrology we are concerned with nine planets. They are the seven 
planets Sun, Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus and Saturn, as well as the north 
and south nodes of the moon, which are mathematical points, actually considered 
to be shadow planets. Their names are Rahu (the north node, known as Dragon's 
Head by astronomers) and Ketu (the south node, known as Dragon's Tail). The 
planets represent the various energies in life. I will give a short description as to 
the energies represented by the planets, as well as the categories of life which they 
control. These descriptions are, in an introductory book, necessarily incomplete but 
will give an understanding of the basics of what the planets represent in the horoscope. 

The planets also have natures described as benefic (giving or good) or malefic 
(troublesome or bad). These can be altered by:- 

a) conjunctions (other planets they are with in the same house), 

b) aspects by other planets (to be discussed later,) 

c) the houses they rule according to the rising sign (also to be discussed later,). 

The natural effects of Jupiter, Venus, Moon and Mercury are said to be benefic, 
although the Moon and Mercury can easily be adversely affected by conjunction 
with malefic planets. Mars, Saturn, Sun, Rahu and Ketu are said to be natural 
malefics. The Sun is considered a malefic, due to the fact of its great heat and ability 
to consume. 


SUN 


Of primary importance is the Sun's representation of the soul, or “real” self 
and the level of awareness as to this knowledge of spirit soul. 

The Sun also represents the external, physical appearance of a person. It will 
indicate the health and stature of the body as well as physical beauty. It will be an 
indicator of what types of behaviour, or actions, an individual is likely to engage in 
and the quality of the engagement. Additionally, the Sun is representative of @ per- 
son's father in this life. 

The Sun will show whether or not you are meant to lead, or are best suited to 
a position of assisting. It will also indicate whether you are more adept to working 
in groups, or alone. Influence, fame (or infamy) and popularity are other factors of 
the Sun's position. 


MOON 


The Moon represents the mind and how you think, feel and the level of self 
motivation. It is indicative of the basic mental condition or emotional health. It will 
show quality of emotions and sensitivity. Much can be gleaned of a person's 
capability for action, in both words and deeds, by the position of the Moon. 

The Moon rules over all bodies of water, such as the seas, as well as liquids in 
general, including the watery substances (blood, etc.) within the body. Affairs related 
to an individual's mother are indicated and it can represent women in general. It is 
concerned with business activity and dealings with the public. It indicates health 
as a child or teenager. 


37 


MARS 


Mars is the planet which represents our physical energy, strength and 
whether we utilize our energy positively or negatively in life. It will indicate 
courage or fearlessness and determination to succeed in all endeavours. It will also 
indicate levels of passion, including sexual. 

Mars rules over all competitive activities, including sports and military activities. 
It will even point to what affinity exists in cooking food or succeeding in the 
restaurant business. It has jurisdiction over business affairs concerning properties 
(real estate) and automobiles, or other types of machinery. The position of Mars 
may also indicate happenings concerning brothers, when appropriate. 


MERCURY 


Mercury is best known as the planet ruling over communication, of all types, 
throughout the world. As such, it is representative of intellect as well as the level of 
education and knowledge you are capable of attaining. It will indicate whether the 
talent exists to be a good, convincing speaker or orator. It shows mental ability, 
agility and and how astute a person may become, especially in business dealings. 

The ability to communicate also inter-links with people and relationships. 
The number of relationships/ friendships that will be formed stems from the position 
of this planet in the chart. 

Mercury is the planet ruling the depth of memory and therefore the ability to 
leam foreign languages, etc. 


JUPITER 


Jupiter is the most wonderful and giving of all the planets. Primarily it 
indicates your philosophical and religious nature, the amount of knowledge you 
can gain and assimilate in this regard together with the ability to devote yourself to 
spiritual life. 

Jupiter indicates the rewards due in this life, such as material wealth, financial 
stability and how influential you may be over others. It shows capability as a 
teacher and is the indicator for children. Additionally Jupiter represents the 
husband in a woman's horoscope. 


VENUS 


“Venus is also a wonderful and giving planet, ruling over much of the beauty 
in life as well as if s pleasures. Therefore Venus naturally rules over sensual affairs, 
or love life. In a man's chart it is representative of the wife. It shows an ability to 
gain in luxuries and possessions, such as automobiles, jewellry and works of art. It 
will indicate the level of opulence possible to attain in this life, including the enjoy- 
ment of ensuing comforts. 

Venus rules all the beautiful things in life, including artistic and musical talent 
and the enjoyment of these things. To be thought of as an alluring or charismatic 
person also depends on the position of Venus in the horoscope. 


SATURN 


Saturn is the slowest moving of the planets and most importantly rules over 


38 


the speed at which the physical body ages, death and longevity of other things 
generally. It is the indicator of work or career and, as such, the struggle to succeed 
at endeavours in this material world. It indicates foreigners, foreign countries and 
the ability to influence groups of people, whether at home or abroad. Its position at 
times also shows an affinity for black market or illegal business dealings. 

Saturn indicates desire to help unfortunate persons or to engage in social 
service work. Last, but by no means least, it is known to rule over yoga, mysticism 
and the desire to ultimately renounce the affairs of this world. 


RAHU 


Rahu, the north node of the Moon, basically ca:ises problems. It rules over 
poisons and intoxicants as well as unbecoming inclinations of all kinds. It causes all 
types of suffering, resulting in great delusion and frustration. It creates tearfulness 
and is known to give extremely chaotic results during its planetary period. Except 
in certain circumstances, it has a negative effect on any planet with which it is 
associated. 


KETU 


Ketu, the south node of the Moon, is a great teacher but it does so by restricting 
and constraining activities. Like Rahu, it causes problems, basically afflicting any 
planet associated with it. It is known to create impediments in the execution of 
activities, presenting diverse stumbling blocks. It can cause poverty, all kinds of 
material suffering, or undiagnosable diseases, depending on it's position in the 
chart. 

In a positive light it represents the desire for liberation from material 
entanglement and the hardships caused may push an individual towards the path 
of self-realization. 


THE SIGNS 


The signs give the qualities to the energies represented by the planets. The 
sky is divided by the zodiacal signs and constellations of stars within them. 
Mathematically we view the sky as an oval of a total of 360 degrees. Therefore, as 
there are twelve signs, each covers 30 degrees. The planets move in their respective 
orbits through the twelve signs at a rate of speed determined by their size and dis- 
tance from the Sun. The Sun is also seen to move completely through the constella- 
tions once in a year but, of course, this is from our perception on earth, as all plan- 
ets actually orbit the Sun, which is situated at the centre of this solar system. 

These descriptions are by no means complete or all-encompassing in them- 
selves and are only to give a general idea of the qualities of the signs. 


ARIES 


Aries, the first sign, is a fire sign and it is ruled over by the planet Mars. The 
zodiacal symbol is two rams butting heads. It is a masculine sign and is quite mar- 
tial, or military, in its qualities. It gives spontaneity and makes for a somewhat 
adventurous nature. It can give qualities of strength and a competitive spirit. 


39 


TAURUS 


Taurus is an earth sign and is ruled by the planet Venus. Its zodiacal symbol 
is the bull, which indicates a stubborn but productive nature. It is a feminine sign 
and, being ruled by Venus, may give artistic abilities. 


GEMINI 


Gemini is an air sign and is ruled by the planet Mercury Its symbol is the pair 
of twins or lovers, indicating variety in tastes. It may make a subject very attractive 
to others and give skills and knowledge in many different things. Gemini may also 
indicate a talkative nature. 


CANCER 


Cancer is a water sign and is ruled by the Moon. Its symbol is the crab. 
Generally it gives a sensitive and/or emotional nature which, depending on 
position, may indicate psychic abilities. It has a spiritual nature, yet its natives may 
be seen to have strong attachments within this world. 


LEO 


Leo is a fire sign, ruled by the Sun. Its symbol is the lion, indicating a some- 
what martial or "intense" nature. Generally, Leo gives great aspirations and the 
ability to accomplish many goals in life. It makes for a righteous and upstanding 
nature and a natural-born leader of others. Leo can give a powerful appearance, 
physically or in posture, yet with a kind disposition. 


VIRGO 


Virgo is an earth sign, ruled by Mercury. Its symbol is the virgin, indicating a 
soft, possibly feminine, nature. It often makes for an artistic inclination and gives a 
very expressive nature. Virgoans frequently have a good sense of humour and are 
meticulous individuals. 


LIBRA 


Libra is an air sign, ruled by the planet Venus. Its symbol is the scales, which 
suggests a good balance between the spiritual and material sides of life. Librans 
are usually concerned with other people, honesty or justice deep within and 
frequently wish to perform activities aimed at helping the underpriveledged or 
downtrodden. It often indicates the ability to engage in profitable partnerships. 


SCORPIO 


Scorpio is a water sign, ruled by Mars. Its symbol is the scorpion, which 
means those under this sign may have a tendency to be critical or even cruel. It 
may indicate a vengeful nature, although those under this influence generally live 
anything but boring lives. Excitement or “living- on-the-edge”, may be common- 
place at times. This is an extremely spiritual sign, thus the higher nature of Scorpio 
can lead to the path of transcendence. 


40 


SAGITTARIUS 


Sagittarius is a fire sign, ruled by the planet Jupiter. Its symbol is the archer, 
which generally indicates high goals and principles of character. Sagittarians are 
ambitious people, capable of gaining spiritual understandings and direction in life. 
It is considered a holy sign, representative of saints and spiritual preceptors. 


CAPRICORN 


Capricorn is an earth sign, ruled by the planet Saturn. It is symbolized by the 
crocodile which seems to indicate patience. As it is a slow planet it may indicate a 
slowness in actions. It gives power and influence for a committed and determined 
individual. lt can give power over, or respect from, the general public. 


AQUARIUS 


Aquarius is an air sign, also ruled by Saturn. Its symbol is a woman carrying 
pots, indicating a person who shoulders a great burden or does service for other 
people. It gives interest in spirituality, mysticism and the occult. It may make 
individuals appear to be exceedingly eccentric in their methodology of action. 
Aquarius is most definitely a great teacher, though it is through difficulties that the 
lessons are learned. 


PISCES 


Pisces is a water sign, ruled over by thenlanet Jupiter. Its zodiacal symbol is 
two fish swimming in opposite directions. This indicates a difficulty in making 
decisions and a soft, unselfish nature. Being ruled by Jupiter it is a spiritual sign 
and those under its influence are ultimately concerned with spiritual liberation. 


THE HOUSES 


Once it is ascertained in which signs the planets were situated at the time of 
birth, we need to put the signs in the numbered houses. The houses, as they're 
called, represent the specific applications of activity or the categories of life that the 
planets, in their signs, are enacting. The way we place them is by first finding the 
rising or ascendant sign. Whichever sign was due east on the horizon at the time of 
birth is the rising sign and is placed in the first house. Then all signs go in their 
natural order. In other words, if Sagittarius is determined to be the rising sign it 
goes in the first house, along with any planets situated within the sign. Then 
Capricorn goes in the second house, Aquarius in the third, Pisces in the fourth, etc. 

We use what is called an "equal house system" in vedic astrology, which 
means that if the rising point or ascendant is 10 degrees Sagittarius, the whole sign 
of Sagittarius goes into the first house. This is true regardless of what degree the 
rising point is. The entire sign which the rising point falls within is considered the 
first house. Houses are not set up according to the degree of rising, as in the most 
common "divided house system" used by many western astrologers today. I will 
attempt to give some of the categories of life connected with the houses but, again 
for simplicity's sake in an introductory book, it is not meant to be complete or 
detailed. 


41 


THE FIRST HOUSE 


The first house shows the strength of the chart or of this lifetime as a whole. It 
indicates the types of aspirations and direction that may be taken. It will reflect not 
only physical appearance, but the health or well-being of the physical nature. It 
demonstrates the strength of character and how individuals are likely to represent 
themselves to the world. 


THE SECOND HOUSE 


The second house is concerned with business generally, the banking of 
money, gemstones, financial situations and ability for earning a living. It also 
indicates the face and mouth, thereby the speaking abilities as well as eating 
tendencies. It also reflects the degree of philosophical nature. 


THE THIRD HOUSE 


The third house deals with communication. Therefore it rules over speech, 
type of voice and literary talent. Manual dexterity may also be determined from 
this house, as well as bravery and determination to achieve goals in life. Brothers 
also are indicated. 


THE FOURTH HOUSE 


The fourth house is indicative of heart-felt feelings and emotions, as well as 
level of education obtained in school environments. It can tell about friends and 
relationships with your mother. Materially it rules properties and vehicles or 
machinery, such as cars and the like. It also reflects the living environment that can 
be expected. 


THE FIFTH HOUSE 


The fifth house is mostly involved with children but there are many other 
categories looked at. We can tell the level of intelligence and the level of capacity 
which exists to become an accomplished student or teacher. It gives an inkling of 
the previous birth and what spiritual desires may exist. This house also indicates 
the presence (or absence) of a romantic nature and level of social interaction. It is 
looked to for ability to profit from financial investments and the entertainment 
industry. 


THE SIXTH HOUSE 


The sixth house is often called the ‘house of diseases, or troubles". We can 
tell the susceptibility to disease as well as the possible types of ailments you may 
have problems with. It also indicates troubles from enemies in life and financial 
debts. It reflects uncles, foreigners and foreign travels, the ability to serve others, 
service to God and worship at churches, temples, mosques, synagogues, etc. 


THE SEVENTH HOUSE 


The seventh house is most commonly referred to as the "marriage and 
relationship" house. It shows the success or failure of business relationships or 


42 


partnerships as well as marital-type relationships. It rules over short trips you may 
undertake and certain businesses, especially those having connection with the 
general public. 


THE EIGHTH HOUSE 


The eighth house is where we look for longevity of the body or the life span. 
As such it is sometimes called the "house of death”. It indicates various sufferings 
and unfortunate circumstances. We can understand psychological make-up and 
psychic or mystical abilities. Physically it rules the anus and the elimination 
system. It can indicate whether or not there is likely gain from insurance or 
through inheritance. 


THE NINTH HOUSE 


The ninth house is considered to be the most important house in the 
horoscope. It is termed the "house of good fortune”. As such it shows what boons 
may be received in this lifetime. These include meeting a spiritual teacher capable 
of disseminating spiritual knowledge, religious feelings and general good fortune 
in all areas of life. lt indicates the government or superiors, the father and even 
grandchildren. It may also demonstrate the ability to earn through the importation, 
exportation, or shipping of goods. 


THE TE: ‘TH HOUSE 


The tenth house is usually looked to for information on type of career, as well 
as success and standing within it. It will show the type of engagement to earn 
money and the ability to be successful in this respect. It also indicates public standing 
or reputation, family lineage and political leanings. 


THE ELEVENTH HOUSE 


The eleventh house we usually refer to as the "house of enjoyment or 
pleasures". It indicates desires in this regard and the degree of success in fulfiling 
them. It shows opportunities for earning money with little work or effort and also 
rules over sisters and pets. Without an adequately strong eleventh house it is 
impossible to attain much material pleasure or satisfaction, regardless of success in 
career, etc. 


THE TWELFTH HOUSE 


The twelfth house is known as the “house ruling material losses", but, 
conversely, shows renunciation of materialism for spiritual benefit. It indicates 
expenditures of finance and mental confusion, sleep, dreams, sexual pleasures, 
charitableness toward others, the desire for spiritual liberation and indications as 
to the next birth may be ascertained from this house. Benefic planets in this house 
do not generally bode well for material prosperity. 


THE RISING SIGN 


The rising or ascendant sign, is most important in understanding the general 
personality of an individual. It will indicate a person's drive, goal-orientation and 
quality of action. The rising sign is determined to be the sign due east on the 
horizon at the time of birth. It is placed in the first house and all other signs follow 
in their natural order placed in houses two through to twelve. In other words, if 
Sagittarius is the rising sign (ascendant) Capricorn would be in the second house, 
Aquarius in the third, Pisces in the fourth, Aries in the fifth, etc. with Scorpio finally 
being in the twelfth house. The following are short, general descriptions of the 
qualities of the various signs when they are rising in the horoscope. 


ARIES RISING 


These people are of a masculine nature as Aries is ruled by Mars. They are 
quite dominant, with a tendency to take leadership positions and make good 
military officers. They can plan things out and direct others to action. They have 
good ambition, courage and the fortitude to surmount all sorts of problems. They 
may also show anger if provoked and cannot be intimidated, but will work with 
others to achieve what they consider of importance. They are proud people, with 
logical minds. 

Aries are travellers and are always on the move. They are usually physically 
strong, as well as good-looking. Beauty in all things is attractive to them and they 
prefer to live places where the natural splendour of mother nature is obvious. They 
have an affinity for spicy food. Exercise is also a part of their lives, although the 
may experience some weakness of their joints. Success in businesses to do wi 
property, real estate, etc. is indicated. 


TAURUS RISING 


This is a sign ruled by Venus and people under this sign love beauty in all 
things. They often have a sensual nature and appearance. Although generally 
good-looking with a friendly, compassionate personality, when they get mad, 
"look out!" These people have the fortitude and energy to be successful in their 
careers and anything else they may desire to accomplish. 

They are intelligent, artistic and can be very generous with others. Although 
rather independent they are extremely capable and get the job done, but may be 
somewhat of a perfectionist, at times. These people make excellent friends and, 
while good to their spouses, don't get as much pleasure from children as others 
may. Their children are mostly female. 


GEMINI RISING 


This sign is ruled by Mercury which rules over communication of all kinds, 
from transportation to authors, writers, speakers and researchers, etc. These 
natives are extremely intelligent but often not consistent in their actions. They 
make good teachers or preachers and are good in the "nuts and bolts" of running a 
business, especially keeping track of finance. However, sometimes they take on too 
many engagements to do well, as they love change and variety. 

These people can be very perceptive of other's desires and reasons for doing 


45 


things. They are good speakers and fast thinkers. They may also be artistic. More 
often than not they also enjoy full social lives and, due to liking change,they 
require stimulation or they become bored. Usually they're found in intellectual 
positions or jobs where they use their brains, rather than their bodies. 


CANCER RISING 


This sign is ruled by the Moon. As the Moon represents the mind and emo- 
tions, they can be easily upset. Often they don't feel like others are appreciative of 
them and may tend to voice their sensitivities in this regard. They do have a good 
nature and care for people in their lives. They enjoy their homes and all that they 
possess. As long as they have what they need, they tend to be happy. They are 
friendly and their interests are myriad. 

Being a water sign, Cancerians like to live near the water and also love 
foreign travel. They love their families and friends and enjoy their company a great 
deal. They are communicators and may be in business where contact with the 
general public is predominant. They are not usually interested in having a large 
family, although they are somewhat dependent on their marriage partners to make 
them feel they are cared for. 


LEO RISING 


Ruled by the Sun, these people often become famous or well-known, achieve 
power and high positions by dint of their sheer force and great energy. A born 
leader who doesn't like to be bossed around. Very large or powerful looking physi- 
cally and may be intimidating to others, due to their outspoken nature. They are 
brave, sincere, friendly to others, affectionate, attractive and have good hearts. 

They set high goals for themselves and may work tirelessly toward these 
ends. They are extremely independent and forceful in their opinions but are kind 
and honourable people. They are honest in their dealings and sincere in words and 
deeds. They like the outdoors and natural beauty. Due to their nature, they may be 
difficult to live with, resulting in more than one marriage. They tend to be successful 
materially, due to their energy, in all they undertake and have spiritual interest. 


VIRGO RISING 


This sign is ruled over by the planet Mercury. These are pleasant people with 
good intelligence and a soft heart. They may be creative and artistic, with varied 
interests in life, dccp thinkers, as well as very capable in thcir carccrs and businesses. 
They are philosophical and only do things mat they feel good about, although at 
times they may be too impulsive. 

These people love beauty and the pure riches of mother earth. They have 
good discretion most of the time and are able to work for things they wish to 
accomplish. They prefer variety in their occupations and in life in general, lest they 
become tired of what they are doing. In general these are lovely people that care 
about others but are not always sure of themselves. They have good habits and are 
well liked by others around mem. 


LIBRA RISING 
This sign is under the rulership of Venus giving a love of art, beauty and the 
46 


good things of life. Those affected are adept at balancing the different sides of 
human life. They have a love for other people and are helped by friends and family. 
They are talented in business and have desires to make themselves an asset to the 
masses of people by their actions. They possess good intellectual capabilities and 
are good at dealing impartially with other people, although they may be quite 
opinionated. 

They have an affinity for sensual pleasures and prefer an opulent environ- 
ment. Honest with good discretion, more often than not they are tall and slender, 
with light skin and hair. They are fun-loving and helpful to those close to them. 
They are usually philosophical or religious and care sincerely for others, taking 
compassion on those less fortunate in life. 


SCORPIO RISING 


This is the sign ruled by Marts and problematic childhood is not uncommon. 
Usually they are good looking with a dark complexion. They are very demanding, 
intense people more often than not and can have a cruel streak, especially if 
someone has wronged them. They have the energy to accomplish their aims and 
are very opinionated. They have good intelligence and are usually talented in what 
they do. They care for others and give of themselves when they feel appreciated. 

Artistic and good communicators, they have problems in marriage, due to 
their temperament and anger. Often these people are hard to read, somewhat 
mysterious and yet are capable of greatness, as well as lowly acts. They definitely 
have spiritual inclinations, 


SAGITTARIUS RISING 


Sagittarius is ruled by the planet Jupiter. These people are honest, energetic 
and straightforward people who are generally high achievers or goal-setters. They are 
principled people, generally full of good qualities who want justice to reign and 
have the ability to counsel or teach others. They have good mental and physical 
health for the most part and usually are spiritually inclined. These people don't 
like hypocrites and they are very philosophical about life. 

Usually tall, with a longish face, large nose and brownish hair, they are 
excellent business people and can use their power over others wisely. They tend to 
prevail over those that oppose them yet, generally, are more successful far from 
their places of birth. They have good intelligence and absorb spiritual teachings 
that they can impart to others. They may suffer from the envy ofothers but, in general, 
are respected and live fulfiling lives. 


CAPRICORN RISING 


Capricorn is ruled by the plane’. Saturn. Those born under this ascendant are 
liked by others, although they tend to put their own desires first and foremost. 
They persevere and, generally, set high goals for themselves. Although they may 
seem negative they can attain greatness, power and fame, achieving things difficult 
to obtain by the average person. They do exercise patience in working toward their 
desires until they are realized. They are multi-talented and may change their mode 
of employment, liking the variety. This also makes them enjoy travel. Physically 
they may be thin and good-looking, with sandy or brownish hair. They are successful 


47 


in business for they will do whatever they feel is necessary to achieve their goals, 
even to the point of underhandedness at times. In marriage they often choose 
someone senior in ageand don't usually have many children. 


AQUARIUS RISING 


The sign Aquarius is under the rulership of the planet Saturn. These 
people are generally good communicators, have intelligent ideas and may be 
found teaching. Others are generally fond of these folks. They are quite philosophi- 
cal and many people have difficulty understanding them. They like to help others 
and are good natured. Frequently, their health is weak Many times these people feel 
insecure in marriage or their relations with the opposite sex, although they enjoy 
an active social life. 

They like the outdoors and beautiful places. Generally they don't wish to be 
in positions of authority, although they will work hard at whatever task they are 
given. They are interested in ancient cultures and sometimes in religion or the 
occult. They may not always be the most generous people but are friendly, 
well-liked, possessing intelligence and foresight. 


PISCES RISING 


This sign is ruled over by the planet Jupiter. Those born under its 
influence make good marital partners, yet may be distrusting of their partners and 
their actions. They have a lot of energy to achieve results and may be very successful, 
with great influence. They are adept with finance and they are sometimes found in 
the world of high finance or in the entertainment world. 

They are honest people, with an interest in spiritual things. They may have 
psychic abilities but often have a hard time making up their minds. They love to 
travel overseas. Fond af romance, they are kind and may be an inspiration to others. 
They are sensual and, although quite advanced in many things, often their minds 
are not at peace. 


PLANETS IN THE SIGNS AND HOUSES 


In this section are descriptions of the possible effects of the planets when situated 
in specific signs and houses. Planets are powerful when in their own signs, the 
signs they rule over or are lord of. They are even more powerful when in their 
exaltation signs. Furthermore, planets have inter-relationships as friends or enemies, 
as do people. As a result of this their influences are stronger when with friends 
than in the signs of enemies and worst in their signs of debilitation. 

To understand this we first must know which signs planets rule and what is 
their exaltation and debilitation signs. Information as to enemy’s or friend's signs 
is contained in the individual descriptions but a listing of rulership, exaltation and 
debilitation signs follows: 


SUN = Ruler of Leo /Exalted in Aries /Debilitated in Libra 

MOON = Ruler of Cancer /Exalted in Taurus /Debilitated in Scorpio 

MARS = Ruler of Aries & Scorpio /Exalted in Capricorn /Debilitated in Cancer 
MERCURY = Ruler of Gemini & Virgo /Exalted in Virgo /Debilitated in Pisces 


JUPITER = Ruler Sagittarius & Pisces / Exalted in Cancer / Debilitated in Capricorn 
VENUS = Ruler of Taurus & Libra / Exalted in Pisces / Debilitated in Virgo 
SATURN = Ruler of Capricorn & Aquarius / Exalted in Libra / Debilitated in Aries 


Rahu and Ketu are shadow planets and, as such, they really can't own any 
particular sign. However they do exercise a successful bearing, when in certain 
signs. They also have exaltation and debilitation signs, as fpllows:- 


RAHU = Strong in Virgo, stronger in Aquarius /exalted in Taurus /debilitated in Scorpio 
KETU = Strong in Pisces, stronger in Leo / exalted in Scorpio /debilitated in Taurus 


Another thing to be noted is that Rahu and Ketu are said to act rather like the 
lords of the signs they are in. Therefore, if Rahu or Ketu is in Capricorn, look to the 
strength of position of Saturn and predict effects accordingly. If in Pisces, look to 
Jupiter, etc. 

Now we will look at the individual planets and general effects of their being 
situated in specific signs and houses within the horoscope. 


NB. There are situations that will give cancellation of debilitation. One such situation 
is if the debilitated planet is in the first, fourth, seventh, or tenth house from the 
ascendant sign, or the Moon. 

Other situations are: 

(a) If the ruler of the sign where the debilitated planet is situated is in the 
first, fourth, seventh, or tenth house from the ascendant or Moon. 


49 


(b) If the planet which becomes exalted in the sign which the debilitated planet 
is situated is in the first, fourth, seventh, or tenth house from the ascendant or 
Moon. 

(c) If the planet in debilitation is exalted in the “Navamsa” chart, there is can- 
cellation of debilitation. (Navamsa chart is the most important “subdivisional” 
chart in Vedic astrology. Subdivisionals will be discussed later) 


SUN IN ARIES 


This is the most powerful sign for the Sun to be situated. It is the sign ruled 
by the planet Mars. Those thus influenced are generally powerful people, both in 
mind and body, as well as in spirit. These are people that feel born to lead. They 
usually have good discretion and ideas for material, as well as spiritual, advancement. 
Goal setters, extremely competitive and quite intelligent, they are unforgettable 
personalities. They're not afraid to get involved and sometimes they may push 
themselves too hard. They may earn great wealth, yet, at times, not have much 
more than they need to keep body and soul together. These people like to travel 
and may become well known. 


SUN IN TAURUS 


This sign is ruled by the planet Venus which makes these people sensual, loving 
beauty both in things generally and the environment in particular. They are very 
"down to earth”, practical people. These people are dependable, have ambition and 
can work steadily in their time to achieve their goals. They are very strong willed 
and can be extremely stubborn at times. Making them angry will never get them to 
concede, so it's wise to be kind and patient. 

These people are fairly analytical and don't rush into things without thinking. 
They have high intelligence, patience and believe in themselves and their abilities. 
They can be very talented in business and usually marry weil. They enjoy food and 
may have musical talents. 


SUN IN GEMINI 


This is a sign ruled by the planet Mercury. These very intelligent people have 
capable abilities in many different areas, especially the sciences of life and are usually 
well educated. These are successful persons who are skillful with money and do 
well in their careers. They are polite, kind to others and are extremely good 
communicators. Talented in many things, sometimes they tend to try to do too 
much at once and can become tired from the endeavour. 

They are loving people and are talented in the art of love making. These are 
social people who require much variety in life, lest they become bored. There is 
always so much going on with them that they are very interesting but frequently 
have the tendency to moodiness. 


SUN IN CANCER 


This is the sign ruled by the Moon. These people are honest, usually quite 
emotional and like to live in places near the ocean, lakes, rivers, etc. They spend a 
great deal of time at home and are usually happy there yet, they also like travelling 
to foreign countries and enjoy warm weather. 


50 


These are people that have good discretion and may do things according to 
what their "sixth sense" tells them is right. They may be somewhat on the 
conservative side and are very sincere in their love for others. Generally they are 
successful and may become rich but they also have experience of hard times in life. 
They can see the reality in things and can give good instruction or advice. They 
love to enjoy themselves but, on the health side, may have stomach problems and 
should be aware of this aspect. 


SUN IN LEO 


This is the sign ruled by the Sun, therefore it is powerful in this position. 
These people are generally physically strong, good-looking, with lots of energy 
and can become very successful in their career and many other things that they set 
out to do. They are egotistical, headstrong and sometimes may be considered too 
intense. In marriage they often have problems because they think that they are 
always right, although actually, they often are. 

This position also means that there is some assistance from their father or 
from authorities in life. They have high goals and are good communicators. Most 
people like and are willing to help them. They are sincere and can be quite influential 
over others. Having the intelligence and the drive to accomplish their objectives, 
they invariably do. They are not usually much troubled by sickness and love the 
great outdoors. Natural scenery is what they enjoy best and they may go out alone 
to think or meditate. These people are also philosophical and are often learned in 
spiritual subjects. 


SUN IN VIRGO 


This sign is ruled by the planet Mercury and gives many positive qualities. 
Those influenced are kind, unimposing people with intellect and a substantial 
education. They are excellent communicators and may be very artistic. They have 
discretion and are creative in their approach to things. Attractive people, with an 
innocence about them, these persons are open, honest and care sincerely for others. 
Although others like to be around them for their sincerity, occasionally they can be 
too forceful in their opinions. Physically they are not very strong or powerful. In 
general these people are full of talents, but they can be a little weak, mentally, in 
perseverance. They can be very successful in their career or in business for they 
take care of even the little things that others may not recognize as being important. 


SUN IN LIBRA 


This sign is ruled by Venus and is the weakest sign to have the Sun in the 
birth chart. Those influenced, although good in business, are better suited working 
with other people and not independently. They are usually straightforward, fair 
and honest in their opinions and dealings. They care and will do things for others. 
They can be generous but are often misunderstood. These people are sensually 
inclined and like beautiful things. They abhor violence and like life to be full of 
harmony and love. However, they aren't always very moralistic and should 
beware of associating with others that may drag them down. Physically they may 
have poor eyesight, stomach problems and headaches. 


51 


SUN IN SCORPIO 


This sign is ruled by Mars. Those in this situation are good-looking people 
with "action-packed" lives. They may hide their thoughts and actions and may do 
things without first considering the implications. They are fighters and may like 
firearms or other types of weapons. They are determined and work toward their 
goals. They may not be trusting of others and the same may be true of others’ feelings 
toward them, often being, justifiably, thought of as devious. They can be nervous 
and have a sharp tongue. These people do have aspirations to help humanity at 
large and may be involved with groups that they believe can work for the ultimate 
good of the country or the world. They are capable and can be successful in their 
careers, which often include becoming teachers, musicians, or, doing work in the 
medical professions or real estate. 


SUN IN SAGITTARIUS 


This sign is ruled by Jupiter which gives many endearing qualities to those 
influenced. They are generally honest, reliable and straightforward. They set 
themselves high goals and work toward their fruition. Other people believe and 
put faith in them. They are, more often than not, philosophical, religious, 
optimistic and like to live good clean lives. 

They are capable people that achieve success and often become rich. They 
have keen discretion and are generous, kind and fair, but may be lacking in 
patience. Generally the physical health is pretty reliable and they have strong 
minds. These are people that can be depended on and make very reliable friends, 
able to offer sound advice. 


SUN IN CAPRICORN 


This sign is ruled by the planet Saturn. Those in this position are intelligent 
and may have great ideas but don't like to be rushed. "Slow but sure” is an accurate 
description. They are capable in business and generally good with maths. They are 
extremely independent, like to rely on their own ways of doing things and don't 
like to be told what to do. 

These are not the most optimistic people in the world and often are interested 
in philosophical concepts beyond the here and now. These people may get into 
important positions by perseverance, or may have associates that are in elevated 
positions. They are honest, compassionate towards others, have a sharp sense of 
humour and are not generally loud or boisterous, indeed, usually quite the opposite. 


SUN IN AQUARIUS 


This sign is ruled by the planet Saturn. These people are intelligent communicators 
and make excellent writers. They are dependable, fast learners and do whatever is 
necessary to get their jobs finished properly. They experience ups and downs in 
career and their financial position. Often they find in their jobs that they have to 
listen to people that are not nearly as capable as they are. Their minds are always 

. active and can come up with good ideas for other people's benefit, gaining respect 
and love. Usually they are taught spiritual or philosophical concepts just by dint of 
the setbacks they undergo in life. 


52 


SUN IN PISCES 


This sign is ruled by the planet Jupiter and, as a result, these people are usually 
interested in philosophy and religion. They are kind and loving people that will 
almost always help another. They are usually good-looking people but may be 
somewhat introverted, especially with strangers. They like to be near the water 
and enjoy a beautiful environment. These people are well liked, intelligent and 
have soft personalities. Sometimes they are taken advantage of. 

They like others but need to develop more confidence in themselves. They 
treat people with respect and are appreciated by the opposite gender. They have 
strong discretion and usually have a steady marriage that helps them go further in 
life. Physically they may gain weight easily and have digestive problems. 


SUN IN FIRST HOUSE 


This is a powerful and independent person who likes to be the centre of 
attention. They are extremely capable but may be a little egotistical. However they 
are well intentioned, honest and brave. They are attractive but may have poor 
vision. They enjoy travelling and seeing all sorts of things. These are successful 
people who set high goals and have the ingenuity and energy to accomplish them. 
They have the ability to give direction to, but don't like to be directed by, others. 
They like to socialize, but also appreciate their privacy. 

Not only are they successful in materia] things, but they also have a 
philosophical nature and a desire to understand spiritual subject matters. They 
may attain a high position in life and become well known. Their spouse must defer 
to their wishes, usually, or there are problems. 


SUN IN SECOND HOUSE 


This is a powerful person, not only physically, but in character. They are 
intelligent and usually have a substantial education. They may be a bit hard-headed 
and have problems resulting from opposing their superiors. They are eloquent 
speakers and reliable workers. They usually have adequate finances, but aren't 
usually wealthy. Their father and mother are fond of them and often give them 
monetary assistance. They may have problems with their teeth. 


SUN IN THIRD HOUSE 


This is an excellent placement. These people are intelligent and very expressive. 
They are of a strong physical constitution and are brave and determined. Usually 
they have agreeable parents. Energetic, kind to others and well liked, these people 
are known to be very ingenious. 


SUN IN FOURTH HOUSE 


These are very affable people that have a keen intellect. There may have 
been breaks in their education, but they are sufficiently knowledgeable. They usually 
own property or homes and although they establish relationships with people of 


53 


high standing, very few people know them intimately. They like to work in or on 
things in which they believe. 


SUN IN FIFTH HOUSE 


These are people that rise to elevated positions in life. Generally they are 
good-looking, with a sound physical constitution. They may visit many different 
places and like to enjoy themselves. Often they become teachers.They may have 
digestive problems. 


SUN IN SIXTH HOUSE 


These may be powerful people of a strong physical constitution. They generally 
prevail over those with whom they have problems. They like to visit other countries 
and have interest in how other people live and work. They frequently work with 
lawycrs or doctors and may become well known. 


SUN IN SEVENTH HOUSE 


These are capable people that have difficulty listening to the advice of others. 
They generally are entrepreneurs and can manage their businesses well. They 
sometimes have problems in marriage as they are hard to get close to in 
relationships. They sometimes become well known. 


SUN IN EIGHTH HOUSE 


These people have some philosophical inclinations and don't usually hanker 
to be the centre of attention. They have small families and may work for the state. 
Usually they live a great distance from where they were bom. Physically they may 
have stomach problems and poor vision. 


SUN IN NINTH HOUSE 


These are people that achieve in life. They have great goals and are excellent 
communicators. They are quite "intense" and may be leaders with great influence. 
Their love lives are usually problematic. They may be travellers or deal in import 
and export businesses. 


SUN IN TENTH HOUSE 


These are very capable, intelligent, people that care for others and are very 
helpful to those less fortunate. They make ideal leaders and like to talk. They are 
quite sensually inclined as well as having a strong physical constitution. 


SUN IN ELEVENTH HOUSE 


These people may be very successful in their career and can accumulate 
many possessions. They do not have many close friends and need to develop more 
generosity toward others. 


54 


SUN IN TWELFTH HOUSE 


These people are generally philosophically inclined and don't have much 
drive for advancement in the career. They enjoy travelling and may not stay in any 
one job for very long. They may have poor vision and their father may leave when 
they are quite young. 


MOON IN ARIES 


Aries is a sign ruled over by Mars. It makes for physically powerful people 
with good health and a love for action. They are outgoing, aggressive, exciting people 
who may be intimidating to others. Country life is not to their liking as there is not 
enough to do to keep them busy. They have high opinions of themselves and feel 
capable of almost anything, which is often the truth. 

They are sexual people and usually talented in love making. People like them 
and generally they have many friends. They are often property owners and may 
become wealthy through their efforts in their career. They are usually the eldest 
child of the family. Physically they may suffer from headaches, respiratory problems 
or weak teeth 


MOON IN TAURUS 


This is a sign ruled by Venus and is the most powerful sign for the Moon, 
making for strong mental faculties. Those so affected love beauty, art, nature and 
may be very sensual. They are resolute in their motives and generally know exactly 
what they want and how to attain it. They are usually honest, moralistic and learn 
good traits from their mother. Serious about things they believe in, they often 
become angry if provoked and havea stubborn nature. 

They enjoy food and may have a tendency to put on weight. They don't like 
to be hurried or pushed but take their time, being careful in their actions. These are 
influential people and are generous to those close to them. They have high 
intelligence and keen discretion. They can be extremely tolerant and discerning of others. 


MOON IN GEMINI 


This sign is ruled by Mercury, indicating an intelligent person with a love for 
many things, especially art, music, beautiful clothing and jeweUry. They are quick 
learners, excellent communicators, successful in speaking and in business dealings. 
They are such good speakers mat it is common to find them in the communications 
business. They can do more than one thing at one time and often do so. They may 
have more than one occupation and also more than one spouse throughout their 
life. They are perceptive, discerning of intentions, nor-violent and usually successful 
people. 


MOON IN CANCER 


Cancer is ruled by the Moon, indicating a powerful mind. It is a water sign so 
these people like living near the water and find business successes in watery products, 
or related things, Such as pearls,etc. They are emotional people and may be offended 


ES 


by harshness, accordingly they are usually caring for the feelings of others. 
Philosophical about life they take things in their stride, maintaining a placid 
attitude. Harsh speech will not stir them to action, only kindness. They have loving 
mothers who are important to them and instill good traits in their personalities 
when young. 

They enjoy and can give many pleasures in life. They are of a strong physical 
constitution and determined mentally. They like home life and all that gocs with it 
but often have several marriages. They may take shelter in drinking or some such 
thing at times, to calm the mind. They have reliable friends, possibly in high 
positions and are generally happy people. 


MOON IN LEO 


This is the sign ruled by the Sun and people with the influence of Moon here 
usually are positive and determined. They feel "born to lead others” and can be 
demanding and somewhat self-centred. Although they are fair, discrete and righteous 
persons, once they are intent on something, nothing or nobody can usually change 
their mind. Their associates are rich and often have high positions. 

They are outspoken, confident and not bothered by public opinion. They may 
get angry, without much provocation and can be extremely emotional, which may 
affect their judgement but will calm down and forget it just as quickly. This is a 
generous, courageous person who fights for beliefs but, as the Moon represents the 
mind, there may be mental inebriety, due to so much powerful energy there. 


MOON IN VIRGO 


This sign is ruled over by Mercury, which generally makes for a good 
communicator, talented in business dealings. They can understand others as well 
as make themselves understood. These are caring people that do have feelings for 
others. They like nature and natural beauty. This sign generally makes individuals 
attractive with beautiful eyes. 

They have high intelligence and can be calculative and quick. They may seem 
to be somewhat eccentric to some but they articulate well, making people feel at 
ease. They like sensual relationships with the opposite sex but often seem 
detached. Their children will be mostly female. 


MOON IN LIBRA 


This is a sign ruled by Venus, which results in desires for sensual, beautiful 
things. They are sexually active and often overindulgent, which can, at times, cause 
them health problems. They are intelligent people, with strong perceptions and 
discretion. They strike a fair balance between material life and the spiritual side. 

Generally happy, nonenvious people, they are respectful of others and do not 
like to be involved in arguments. They succeed in business, especially partnerships 
and are honest in their dealings. Popular, they enjoy an active social life and have a 
special affinity with art and music. 


MOON IN SCORPIO 


This sign is ruled by Mars but this is the weakest sign for the Moon, 
resulting in mental weakness, or a troubled mind. Subjects may also experience 


36 


great sadness at various times. They are emotional and can be very cruel, especially 
if they feel wronged by another. These are secretive, intense, jealous, seemingly 
unfeeling people who can prove dangerous if provoked and are not easy to under- 
stand, yet they are very sensitive. 

They are sound business people, strong in purpose and can plot out their 
actions, seeing them through to the end. Often they have dark complexions and 
hair on the body. They may drink or take other types of intoxicants. Usually they 
are not close to their mother. Although these are intense people, they do have a 
spiritual nature and can be adept in meditation or mysticism. 


MOON IN SAGITTARIUS 


This is a sign ruled by Jupiter and instills a person with many positive qualities. 
They are honest, moral, generous, straightforward in their dealings with others and 
strive for great accomplishments. They are extremely intelligent and excellent 
communicators. 

In business they may be successful and always try to be fair. They have sharp 
minds and are adept in the legal profession. They make intelligent use of their 
money and often spend it for the benefit of others. They are spiritualistic and 
philanthropic, faithful to their spouses and make ideal parents. 


MOON IN CAPRICORN 


Capricorn is ruled by the planet Saturn. lt may give confidence in the occupation, 
leading to success. Subjects are good-hearted, but frequently change their minds 
about things. They love to help other people, but may also be less than kind at 
times. Generally patient people, who may be involved in yoga or meditation, they 
are steadfast and overcome problems. They have quick-witted minds and usually 
aspire to greatness, often as artists or writers. They have some humility to their 
credit. The body is often slender and the head large. 


MOON IN AQUARIUS 


Aquarius is under the rulership of Saturn and gives persons with the Moon 
here interest in philosophy and religion. There may also be interest in yoga, medi- 
tation and psychic perceptions. They are very discerning people, especially about 
the motives of others and can act as peacemakers. They don't usually have large 
appetites but may like to drink more than they should, especially as they enjoy the 
company of others. Often tall with a fair complexion, they are artistic and possess 
the energy to accomplish their work. 

Moon in Aquarius may raise subjects up in life, then cause a severe drop in 
status. At some stages they may have a lot, materially, then at other times, seem to 
be poor. They can make powerful enemies but, when old, tend to withdraw into an 
unattached, spiritually motivated, consciousness. 


MOON IN PISCES 


This sign is under the rulership of Jupiter, so individuals with the Moon here 
will have knowledge of spiritual subject matters. They have sound discretion but 
often have difficulty making up their minds. Occasionally they can be too much 
affected by their emotions, which can possibly cloud their sensibilities or their 


57 


judgement of matters. These are giving people who genuinely care for the trials and 
tribulations of others. Generally attractive people, with high intelligence, they are 
honest and easy-going, with amiable personalities. They make steadfast friends 
and can also be very romantic in their love lives. 


MOON IN FIRST HOUSE 


Good-looking, satisfied people, with a strong mind and may be psychic. They 
make reliable friendships and are extremely perceptive. Almost always they are 
involved in dealing with others in their career. They enjoy variety in their lives. 


MOON IN SECOND HOUSE 


These people are intelligent and learned. They are astute with finance and 
may be very successful at various times in their lives. They know how to treat others 
and are well-liked. They tend to have large families and a keen appetite. 
Inheritance is possible. 


MOON IN THIRD HOUSE 


These people may be somewhat unsettled within their minds and are not 
always straightforward. They like change and generally have trouble sticking to 
one job but would be suited as actors or narrators. 

They are not the most generous people and may fight within their families. 


MOON IN FOURTH HOUSE 


These people are at peace with themselves and with others. They possess 
strong intelligence, foresight and make long-lasting friends. They usually own 
property in beautiful surroundings but tend to move frequently. They enjoy 
romance and the art of love. 


MOON IN FIFTH HOUSE 


These are trustworthy people that can go far in their careers and in life in general. 
They can be successful in obtaining properties and beautiful things. These people 
can have wonderful children and are capable of giving very worthwhile advice to 
others. 


MOON IN SIXTH HOUSE 


These people are spiritually inclined and have problems rising to positions of 
importance. They suffer from hostile people, loneliness at times, lack of a positive 
attitude and sickness as a youngster. 


MOON IN SEVENTH HOUSE 


These people are good-looking and very sexually inclined. They may exhibit 
jealousy, unfaithfulness and extreme emotions, making them subject to losing 
relationships. However, they can be helpful to others and often are successful in 
their careers. 


38 


MOON IN EIGHTH HOUSE 


These people are generally attractive and well-built, although they may not 
be mentally stable all the time and want for companionship. They tend to have 
weak eyesight. Inheritance from the family is possible. 


MOON IN NINTH HOUSE 


This is a wonderful placement for the Moon, indicating a powerful mind and 
a philosophical attitude toward life.They may do a lot of travelling and are com- 
passionate people. They are property owners and may attain success in their 
career. The mother is a wonderful person and they have pleasant children. 


MOON IN TENTH HOUSE 


These are creative and intelligent people who may be helpful to others. They 
usually live a long life and are philosophically inclined. 


MOON IN ELEVENTH HOUSE 


Good-looking and enjoyers of a fulfiling love life, these people have high 
intelligence and are skilled in making money but, can be very kind and helpful to 
others. Generally they like to keep their personal life private. 


MOON IN TWELFTH HOUSE 


This person may not have strong eyes and their mind may be troubled. They 
may be insular and inclined toward intoxication. They have many ups and downs 
in the career and, more often than not, don't have a good relationship with their 
mother. However, they are spiritually inclined. 


MARS IN ARIES 


Since Mars is the planet that rules this sign, it becomes very powerful. These 
are people with lots of energy and great forcefulness. They love to try new things 
and to visit different places. Property owners, they enjoy competition, sports and 
associating with other people, although they may be accident prone. 


MARS IN TAURUS 


These emotional people like to talk, but find it hard to accept opinions other 
than their own They may be shy at times, but love to associate with the opposite sex. 


MARS IN GEMINI 


These attractive people may have high intelligence and be somewhat artistic 
but they are not the best of communicators. They may have sharp tongues which 
irritate and they are not known for their generosity or seeing things through to 
completion. All these points result in a lack of close friends or associates. 


59 


MARS IN CANCER 


These people have considerable intelligence to their credit, but this is the 
weakest place for Mars and causes problems in marriage and relationships with 
other people. They may have agitated minds and disagree with others about their 
capabilities. They are not good at taking advice. 


MARS IN LEO 


These folks are basically s both physically and mentally and like the 
outdoors. They are goal-setters who like to see things through to completion. They 
are generous people who care for others, although there is often some contention 
in marriage, yet are often unsettled. They must take care of their health, especially 
the chest area. 


MARS IN VIRGO 


These people may be talented and be adept communicators but they also 
tend to be a little full of themselves, not really caring about others opinions of 
them. However, they may be fairly successful in their career. They are lusty and 
frequently do not have much discretion in regards to their love life. 


MARS IN LIBRA 


These people are usually good-looking and physically fit. They are successful 
in business and have sound discretion. They like the finer things in life. They may 
become angry when provoked and may have problems in marriage. 


MARS IN SCORPIO 


Mars is the ruler of this sign, making it strong. They have great energy to 
expend and may become quite successful. They are intelligent and said to be 
"sharp as a tack" mentally. They are successful in real estate and specialize in 
occupations not known to the general public. 


MARS IN SAGITTARIUS 


This sign is a beneficial place for Mars and gives success in many endeav- 
ours. Subjects are strong, energetic and helpful to society in general. They are 
extremely capable and may rise to high and respected positions in life. They tend 
to be very influential. 


MARS IN CAPRICORN 


This is the most powerful position for Mars. It is called "exalted" in this sign- 
Subjects are well educated, use their energy in many beneficial ways, not only for 
themselves but for others. They have many friends. Successful in their chosen 
career, often as doctors, soldiers, athletes or estate agents. 


MARS IN AQUARIUS 


These people are quite intelligent and have sound common sense, yet may act 
in ways they know are not for the best. They are powerful and many are fond of 


60 


them, but they may sometimes suffer from the envy of others. They keep things 
“bottled-up” inside, which makes them explode angrily on occasions. They may 
have a "mean streak" and an affinity for intoxication. Although they basically have 
kind hearts, they are rarely satisfied and are usually discontented. 


MARS IN PISCES 


These are friendly people, but indecisive and may also be moody. They are 
kind to others and usually have the greatest success in their career far from their 
place of birth. 


MARS IN FIRST HOUSE 


Subjects have great energy to achieve their aims in life and are of a strong 
physical constitution. Their love for competition makes them bicker and they may 
have problems in the marriage. They are usually property owners and work for 
things they believe in. 


MARS IN SECOND HOUSE 


Talkative and always ready to give their opinions, these gifted communicators 
may, naturally, work in the communication field. There may be instability in the 
birth family and they may be unfaithful to their spouse. They have large appetites 
and must take care of their teeth. More financial prosperity comes in the second 
half of their lives. 


MARS IN THIRD HOUSE 


Physically strong and determined mentally, they push themselves to achieve 
their goals in business and are talented in what they do. The possibility of losing a 
brother exists. 


MARS IN FOURTH HOUSE 


These people are quite intense, an aspect of their disposition which may 
become too much for their spouses, often causing break-up and divorce, They 
frequently become well-known in their sphere and usually are property owners. 


MARS IN FIFTH HOUSE 


Usually strong, influential and well educated they may excel as sportsmen, 
soldiers, or leaders. They are somewhat lacking in compassion and may have ups 
and downs in the career. They generally don't have many children and may have 
digestive problems. 


MARS IN SIXTH HOUSE 


Subjects tend to live away from their home towns and prefer the country over 
city life. They are good-looking and usually have a full love life. They tend to be a 
little overbearing and like to argue to make a point. 


61 


MARS IN SEVENTH HOUSE 


These people have ample energy to accomplish any task and are excellent 
communicators, helping them to be successful in business and working with others. 
Their spouse will also be energetic and outspoken. They travel and may be property 
owners. 


MARS IN EIGHTH HOUSE 


These people may engage in illegal businesses or activities that get them into 
trouble with the law. They are strong people and may be good communicators as 
well, but have a tendency toward underhanded and dubious activities. 


MARS IN NINTH HOUSE 


Those so positioned may be philosophical and work hard for things they 
believe in. They need to control their anger and lower nature. As a result they often 
have legal problems and tend to spend on material goods, such as the home, cars, etc. 


MARS IN TENTH HOUSE 


These very strong, energetic and intense people are most capable in their 
work and duties in life. They throw themselves into whatever is required of them 
and may act hastily at times. They may be successful in the real estate business, 
automobile industry or anything involving machinery. They love competition and 
sports. Sometimes they are perceived as having a mean streak to their personality. 
Others may find fault with them and treat them badly. 


MARS IN ELEVENTH HOUSE 


Subjects have strength of character and the potency to accomplish what they 
set out to do. They often become prosperous and are influential over others but, 
outside of their work, may not have a large circle of friends or associates. They 
have small families and try to look at others as all part of a greater family. 


MARS IN TWELFTH HOUSE 


This placement is problematic for happiness at home or in work. Those so 
positioned may lose their husband or wife, due to being unfaithful and are not 
wise with their financial matters. They may be restless, always on the move and 
become easily dissatisfied. Sleepless nights are common, due to a restless mind. On 
the positive side they are helpful to others. They must take care of their teeth. 


MERCURY IN ARIES 


This is an intelligent and creative person with artistic talents, yet may be a little 
disorganized and devious. They like to read but are not generally interested in 
spiritual subject matters. They may be somewhat nervous. 


62 


MERCURY IN TAURUS 


Friendly and artistic people, who will persevere until they succeed. They are 
usually attractive, well-mannered and popular, with a full love life. 


MERCURY IN GEMINI 


Mercury is the ruler of this sign and is strong in this position. Subjects are 
therefore excellent communicators with success in business, and more than one 
career. Many are artistic. They are intelligent and capable of doing many things at a 
fast pace. They may also get divorced and remarried. 


MERCURY IN CANCER 


Subjects are usually successful in the career but, despite a sense of humour, 
they are difficult to be close to due to a restless, argumentative and emotional 
nature. 


MERCURY IN LEO 


This person may be somewhat spiritually inclined but, usually, is lacking in 
discrimination and proper use of intelligence. They are very intent on sex and may 
be arrogant. They need to develop humility. 


MERCURY IN VIRGO 


This is the most powerful sign for Mercury and results in many positive 
attributes. Subjects are intelligent, well-educated and excellent communicators, 
allowing them success in business endeavours and all sorts of occupations dealing 
with other people. They are popular and they make sincere and helpful friends, 
whose advice is valuable. They are clean people with positive habits, religious and 
faithful to their spouses. 


MERCURY IN LIBRA 


These are people of upright character that care for others. They are interested. 
in earning money and are careful with investments. They often take on different 
jobs and are most successful in communicative fields. They may overconsume, giving 
them health problems. 


MERCURY IN SCORPIO 


These people have problems in their relationships. They may be self-centred 
and treat people with disrespect. They have poor discretion and people do not feel 
comfortable with them. They should try to curb their tongue and develop humility. 


MERCURY IN SAGITTARIUS 


Those so influenced are intelligent, well educated and make outstanding 
teachers. They are straightforward, open-minded, have reliable friends and enjoy 
travelling. 


63 


MERCURY IN CAPRICORN 


This is a business person who may not always be straightforward in his dealings. 
Money is a motivator but they may also get into debt. At times they associate with 
lower-class people and may be of a nervous nature. Physically they do not usually 
grow tall. 


MERCURY IN AQUARIUS 


These people are quite intelligent and scholarly. They usually enjoy a full 
education, are trustworthy and have very definitive opinions that are difficult to 
change. They may attain an advanced position. 


MERCURY IN PISCES 


This is the weakest sign for Mercury. Subjects may be restless, with poor 
discretion and misuse of intelligence. Marital relationships may be difficult and 
usually they have jobs requiring little intellectual input. 


MERCURY IN FIRST HOUSE 


This is an excellent placement for Mercury, giving many desirable qualities. 
Those so placed love variety in their lives and are fast and skillful in what they 
undertake. They are very intelligent and excellent communicators, making them 
successful in business or anything requiring dealing with other people. 


MERCURY IN SECOND HOUSE 


This is a beneficial placement allowing a measure of financial success and 
skillful use of money. Subjects like to talk and can speak before groups of people. 
They will probably be involved in writing or the communication fieid. 


MERCURY IN THIRD HOUSE 


These are talented people that can achieve success and complete what they 
set out to accomplish. They like to read and write. They may have wealthy friends 
or associates. Internally they may feel ill at ease and nervous but they manage to 
do what they must. 


MERCURY IN FOURTH HOUSE 


These people are very intelligent and know what they want in life. They are 
materially successful, owning their own homes and cars. They like natural 
surroundings and spending time with their families. They are kind, patient and 
can give sound advice to others. 


MERCURY IN FIFTH HOUSE 


These are intelligent, multi-talented people who are excellent communicators, 
making them outstanding teachers or able to give reliable advice to others. They 


64 


are comfortable speaking beforegroups of people and may be called upon for their 
opinions in important matters. They may have large families and are also inclined 
toward spirituality. 


MERCURY IN SIXTH HOUSE 


This is an intelligent person, capable in their career and may achieve a leading 
position in business. They may be secretive or desiring to be alone as much as 
possible. They are interested in philosophy and overseas travel. They must beware 
of those hostile towards them. 


MERCURY IN SEVENTH HOUSE 


This is an intelligent and capable person who will have good successes and 
many friends. Such people communicate well and may be meticulous in their 
work. There is a possibility they will not stick to one career and may be travellers. 
Divorce and remarriage is not uncommon. They have spiritual motivations. 


MERCURY IN EIGHTH HOUSE 


This position gives high intelligence and an adequate education. Those so 
influenced have long life and interest in spiritual matters. They also may inherit 
money from their family. They may be somewhat fault-finding of others, which 
doesn't allow them a large circle of friends or well-wishers. They may also have 
weak nerves. 


MERCURY IN NINTH HOUSE 


Excellent placement, giving success in the career and many opportunities. 
They become known to others and are adept communicators. Career may involve 
commerce between cities or countries. They are religious, generous and helpful. 


MERCURY IN TENTH HOUSE 


These are great communicators, allowing success in many fields. They are well 
educated and earn through anything to do with sales or communication with other 
people. 


MERCURY IN ELEVENTH HOUSE 


This is a wonderful position. 1t makes for success, both materially and 
spiritually. Subjects have excellent friends, are intelligent and may become wealthy. 
Their influence may be wide spread. 


MERCURY IN TWELFTH HOUSE 


This placement is not beneficial for the career or financial stability. People in 
this position have difficulty in communication, thereby hampering material 
successes. However, they are kind-hearted people, who act in a proper manner 
and are spiritually inclined. 


65 


JUPITER IN ARIES 


Good position giving fine qualities. Such people are trustworthy and helpful. 
They may have large families and the patience to instill respected standards and 
qualities in their children. Physically fit, with plenty of energy to accomplish their 
work, they like variety and travelling. They may be spiritually inclined. 


JUPITER IN TAURUS 


These people are somewhat stubborn and opinionated to the point of appearing 
arrogant at times, yet can be generous and kind. They are very attached to their 
spouse and the home environment, and like to enjoy the pleasures in life. 


JUPITER IN GEMINI 


These people may be excellent communicators with much learning and 
knowledge to their credit. Since they can make themselves easily understood, they 
make excellent teachers. 


JUPITER IN CANCER 


This is the most powerful position for Jupiter as it is exalted in Cancer. God 
has smiled upon these persons, indicating much piety in previous births. They 
tend to be wealthy, religious and blessed with excellent powers of perception. 
These charitable souls care for others and are just in their dealings. 


JUPITER IN LEO 


This is the Sun's sign and a beneficial placement for Jupiter. Those influenced 
may have myriad talents and excellent qualitiés, such as keen discretion and 
compassion for others. Religious and influential, they make outstanding leaders 
with an ability to communicate well. 


JUPITER IN VIRGO 


These people may have strong physical constitutions and earn a living 
through physical means. Subjects may be artistic or talented with their hands. An 
attractive marital partner may be gained, along with long-lasting friendships. 


JUPITER IN LIBRA 


Libra is ruled by Venus which results in these popular, attractive subjects having 
compassionate hearts and feeling for those around them. Although they enjoy 
comfortable living situations, marriage is often full of discontent and short-lived. 
They usually have a religious disposition and friends in fortunate positions. 


JUPITER IN SCORPIO 


These people may often seem extroverted to the point of conceit, yet can also 
be very intense in their dealings with others. Although they can work with great 
energy, they may earn money through illegal methods at times. They are inclined 
to have arevengeful nature, which they should try to overcome. 


66 


JUPITER IN SAGITTARIUS 


Jupiter is the ruler of Sagittarius and positive qualities are usually manifest in 
families, homes, friends, and possessions. They possess high intelligence and are 
straightforward and honest. Much knowledge may be gained with Jupiter here, as 
well as financial prosperity. 


JUPITER IN CAPRICORN 


This is the weakest position and is termed’ the sign of debilitation for Jupiter. 
Those in this position may engage in illegalities for profit and may, at times, feel 
unfulfilled or cheated by Ife in general. Failures and trouble seem to follow them. 
Their families and/or relationships may be troublesome and unhappy. 


JUPITER IN AQUARIUS 


Those with this placement have an interest in philosophical subject matter 
and helping others. Unfortunately, they also have bad habits which result in poor 
health. They gain the assistance and trust of people close to them. 


JUPITER IN PISCES 


Jupiter is the ruler of Pisces with beneficial results, especially in respect to 
children and helping others. These are peacemakers with a generous attitude and 
sincerity in their words and actions. Considerable financial gains should also mani- 
fest during the life. 


JUPITER IN FIRST HOUSE 


These persons are attractive, have a striking countenance and enjoy robust 
physical health. They are fair and just in their treatment of others and make fine 
teachers or leaders. They are religious and studied in philosophy. They usually 
experience long, fulfiling lives. 


JUPITER IN SECOND HOUSE 


These people are family oriented. They may also be learned and make a living 
through their intellectual capabilities, whether it be material or spiritual knowledge. 
They tend to have helpful partners and love to talk with other people on a variety 
of topics. 


JUPITER IN THIRD HOUSE 


Although they are quite intellectual, subjects may, at times, be thought of as 
insensitive and mean. They have powerful friends and are adept in communication. 
They get help from within their families and have good marriage partners. 


JUPITER IN FOURTH HOUSE 


These people have congenial friends and families. They give and receive 
profound advice. They may be conscientious and moralistic in their activities. As 
the fourth house indicates real estate, Jupiter here may give ownership of valuable 
land and/or property. 


67 


JUPITER IN FIFTH HOUSE 


These affable people are appreciated by friends and family, being givers of 
sound advice or instruction. They are successful in making their holdings increase 
and may become well-known. 


JUPITER IN SIXTH HOUSE 


Those influenced usually enjoy strong physical health but mentally, may be 
egotistical, fighting with others. They spend their money easily on impermanent 
things. Often they assist a highly placed person in business or politics. They have 
few children and are travellers. 


JUPITER IN SEVENTH HOUSE 


This house represents the spouse, partners or friends and Jupiter here gives 
pleasing results in these matters. They are kind, giving people and are adept at 
financial arrangements. These subjects earn a living through partners, within or 
outside of the marriage. 


JUPITER IN EIGHTH HOUSE 


These people may have internal physical problems, although frequently they live 
to a ripe old age. They may be somewhat deceitful and have problems in marriage. 
Rarely are they in leadership positions. 


JUPITER IN NINTH HOUSE 


The ninth house, being the "house of good fortune", Jupiter here makes for 
religious and law-abiding people, often becoming respected leaders. Usually they 
are financially secure. Wisdom is gained, often through travel. 


JUPITER IN TENTH HOUSE 


Subjects may be a part of "high society", gaining the confidence of wealthy 
and influential people. Their occupation may be beneficial to many others and they 
may be involved with teaching, preaching a message or with finance. 


JUPITER IN ELEVENTH HOUSE 


Such people are good money-managers, being thrifty rather than exorbitant. 
Profit and gain are attained with little endeavour. They are brave and usually very 
influential people, living happily to an old age. 


JUPITER IN TWELFTH HOUSE 


These people tend to be unhappy with their positions in society and may 
desire to withdraw from the hustle-bustle. Whilst they are discontent with their 
quota in life, when older, they perform works leading to a positive future. 
However, family life may weigh down on them. 


VENUS IN ARIES 


These extroverts like to have fun in life but they do have some undesirable 
traits that may be embarrassing to others, unless they learn to control their lower 
nature. They marry a reliable partner but, at times they disagree. 


VENUS IN TAURUS 


These are good-looking persons with a healthy physical constitution. They 
are kind and have compassion for those less fortunate. They are very sensual and 
desire material things, yet have religious and philosophical yearnings within their 
hearts. They usually have a full love life and marry someone quite attractive. 


VENUS IN GEMINI 


These are people that are intelligent, educated and very sexually inclined. 
They have success in obtaining material things but also have a philosophical side. 
They are prone to be artistic, musically inclined and have amiable and agreeable 
associates. 


VENUS IN CANCER 


These people are attractive and congenial. They may be somewhat shy but 
they are very sensual, although they sometimes have upsets in their love life. They 
can be successful entertainers or earn a living through artistic enterprise. They usually 
have adequate finance in their lives. 


VENUS IN LEO 


These are people that like art, beauty and being in "high society" They are 
sensual people, proud of their accomplishments and usually marry an attractive 
spouse. However, they don't generally have large families. 


VENUS IN VIRGO 


Those so influenced tend to be learned and philosophically inclined but have 
problems with the material side of life. They are inclined to have losses of things 
they own, be put into financial difficulty or do unworthy things to make money. 
They may have problems in marriage and are subject to health problems, especially 
with the genitals or elimination system of the body. 


VENUS IN LIBRA 


These are beautiful people that get many pleasures in life. They are very sensual 
and have an active love life. They gain much opulence such as homes, jewels and 
the things that money can buy. They are successful and have trustworthy friends in 
powerful stations in life. 


VENUS IN SCORPIO 


Subjects have a powerful physical constitution and are usually very sexually 
inclined. Indeed they often have a tumultuous love life, and need to leam to control 
their lower nature. They like to live in beautiful environments and enjoy art and 


69 


music. They are often psychic or have spiritual leanings, but can be mean and 
vengeful at times. They are argumentative and may, consequently, suffer legal 
problems. 


VENUS IN SAGITTARIUS 


These people are inclined towards both spirituality and materialism, experiencing 
a push-pull effect between the two sides. They are good-looking, 
educated, have reliable friends and live in comfort. Others like and respect them. 


VENUS IN CAPRICORN 


This is a good-looking person but may not have a strong physical constitution 
and may be subject to heart problems. Subjects are not overly moralistic and may do 
things, for profit, that are not in their best interests. Usually they marry someone 
older than they are that they must depend on to take care of them. They have 
pleasant friends and like to travel. 


VENUS IN AQUARIUS 


This is an affable, positive person with an unobtrusive personality. Such people 
love to have fun, go to parties and be with others. These people are also sensually 
inclined and should watch their lower desires from becoming too strong. 


VENUS IN PISCES 


This is the most powerful sign for Venus. }t indicates an intelligent, educated 
person that has spiritual leanings and the ability to gain anything they may desire. 
Subjects will have good friends, lovers, homes, etc. They can also be a very beneficial 
influence on others. 


VENUS IN FIRST HOUSE 


These are beautiful people that experience many of the pleasurable, sensual 
things in life. They are charitable, speak well and can teach others. They may also 
be artists, musicians or dancers. They generally have a well appointed home, 
expensive automobiles and a great love life. They must be careful of sickness corning 
from overconsumption of the so called "good things in life". 


VENUS IN SECOND HOUSE 


This is a good-looking person that is an adept communicator, with a tendency 
to be artistic and has no lacking in finances. Such people frequently possess valuable 
properties and all sorts of beautiful things, such as valuable gemstones,etc. They 
are quite sensual and are generally very successful and satisfied. 


VENUS IN THIRD HOUSE 


This is a smart, capable person that is an excellent communicator, possibly as 
an author or in business affairs. Those in this position aren't usually wealthy but 
have satisfactory success in their careers and an enjoyable family life. 


70 


VENUS IN FOURTH HOUSE 


This is a wonderful person that is compassionate and is someone to look up 
to. They are intelligent, educated and achieve great success in life. Such people get 
to live in well furnished homes in pleasant environments, have expensive cars and 
possessions, enjoy family life and friends and have satisfying love lives. 


VENUS IN FIFTH HOUSE 


This person is intelligent, educated and capable of giving excellent advice. 
Such people tend to be successful, both materially and spiritually. They may 
become rich and have affable families. They often have connection to, or involve- 
ment with, the entertainment field. 


VENUS IN SIXTH HOUSE 


These are trustworthy, reliable, popular and respected people. They like to 
travel and get ample opportunity. They have to spend a lot on the upkeep of their 
home and vehicles. They usually don't have large families. 


VENUS IN SEVENTH HOUSE 


These subjects are intelligent, educated and attractive people that have amiable 
friends and get along well with others. They are successful business people and 
have lots of energy. They could have problems in marriage or sometimes they take 
a long time to find someone they wish to marry. They may be very sexually 
inclined or sometimes they decide to completely abstain from a physical love life. 
These are travellers. 


VENUS IN EIGHTH HOUSE 


This is generally a spiritually inclined person that lives a long life. They may 
marry later in life, or sometimes experience divorce and remarriage. They may 
possess land and/or property. 


VENUS IN NINTH HOUSE 


These are intelligent people that are materially successful, as well as possessing 
a religious and philosophical mind. They are generous, artistic and have many 
valuable possessions. They have a beautiful spouse and pleasant families. There is 
much opportunity for travel. 


VENUS IN TENTH HOUSE 


These are intelligent people with good education and many capabilities. They 
may be artists, writers, musicians, or athletes or do well in occupations such as a 
beautician, the medical field or the world of entertainers. These people are likeable 
and gain many important friends. They usually have expensive homes, vehicles 
and possessions, and tend to hold sway over others. 


VENUS IN ELEVENTH HOUSE 


These are intelligent and influential people that are very successful in life. 


71 


They are affable people that get a good spouse, children and have more than ade- 
quate finances, without working too hard. 


VENUS IN TWELFTH HOUSE 


These are philosophical people that care for others but are too sensual for 
their own good. They are inclined to overindulge in the so-called "pleasurable 
things of life" to the detriment of their spiritual progress. They need to be more 
open and honest with themselves, as well as others. 


SATURN IN ARIES 


This is the weakest sign for Saturn and tends to cause subjects to act in unin- 
telligent ways, giving a lack of close friends and causes marital problems. They 
may have a mean streak and be envious of others. They can engage in illegalities 
and experience a lack of success in their career. Back problems or weak teeth are 
not uncommon. 


SATURN IN TAURUS 


This is a favourable sign for Saturn. These are honest and reliable working 
people. They will be intelligent about their expenditures of money. They enjoy 
food and have large appetites. These folks like their privacy and may have several 
marriages. 


SATURN IN GEMINI 


This is a another beneficial place for Saturn and endows people with intelli- 
gence and a capability for success. Subjects may have two sides to them, one being 
pleasant, honest and helpful and the other, unfortunately, being just the opposite. 
They usually enjoy spending time in the open air. 


SATURN IN CANCER 


This is not a great place for Saturn and may result in a restless mind. Subjects 
may also move around a lot and have a negative outlook on life. As children they 
may have health problems and their relationship with their own children may not 
be the best. There may be weakness in the teeth. 


SATURN IN LEO 


This is another weak sign for Saturn and may make those involved a little 
difficult to get along with. They are capable and can be responsible but have a hard 
time taking direction from others. They may be somewhat spiritually inclined. 
There may be problems in marriage and physically with the heart and digestion. 


SATURN IN VIRGO 


This is a good sign for Saturn and often makes for success in the career. It 
gives excellent communicative abilities and the ability to lead. These attractive 
people are careful, yet may be argumentative at times. 


72 


SATURN IN LIBRA 


This is the most powerful sign for Saturn to be situated in. It can give a long 
life, strong influence and great success in the career. Those concerned may become 
wealthy and also have potential in yoga, meditation and/or mysticism. 


SATURN IN SCORPIO 


These people live interesting, action-packed lives but there may be many 
negative implications from this placement. lt may make subjects get into lowly jobs 
or illegalities that can result in legal ramifications. They may act without thinking 
and have losses in the career. 


SATURN IN SAGITTARIUS 


This is a fortuitous placement. Those so influenced should have interest in 
spirituality, high intelligence, honesty and be generous. They have a correct 
attitude about life and other people, are faithful in marriage and usually have 
pleasant children. These are knowledgeable and just people. 


SATURN IN CAPRICORN 


Saturn is also the ruler of this sign and is quite strong here. Often subjects live 
far from their place of birth. They make advancement through marriage and may 
do business with things which come from the earth. They have strong will power 
and concern for those less fortunate. They may be artistic and subject to moodiness. 


SATURN IN AQUARIUS 


Saturn is the ruler of Aquarius and so is well situated here. Those affected are 
sound, ingenious people, interested in philosophical things and spirituality. They 
are likable, but are often somewhat eccentric. They enjoy drinking and are sexually 
inclined. 


SATURN IN PISCES 


This is a positive sign for Saturn. There may be great success in the career and 
a harmonious relationship with the spouse and family. Subjects will be moralistic, 
trustworthy and shrewd money managers. They will have many friends that 
appreciate them. Later in life they tend to become reclusive and yearn for spiritual 
knowledge. 


SATURN IN FIRST HOUSE 


These are correct, honest persons who are "slow but sure" and help 
others. They like to travel and are comfortable wherever they are. They experience 
myriad problems when young and are prone to also have difficulties in the 
marriage relationship. 


SATURN IN SECOND HOUSE 


These people have a lot of ups and downs and have family problems. They are 
hard workers and like to do large business deals, in which they often are successful. 


73 


SATURN IN THIRD HOUSE 


These are strong people who are skilled workers and relate well with 
partners. However, their mental condition sometimes is hostile to others and they 
may have family troubles, or suffer loss of children. 


SATURN IN FOURTH HOUSE 


These are travellers that often are found working away from their home or 
place of birth. They are pleasant people that do not require much to be satisfied. 
They may have health problems in the chest area. 


SATURN IN FIFTH HOUSE 


These people are conscientious and capable of teaching others or giving 
correct advice. They are not very romantic and, indeed, are frequently unhappy 
with their love lives. They may have stomach or digestive problems. 


SATURN IN SIXTH HOUSE 


These are strong people, capable of overcoming problems or those that come up 
against them. They frequently work in more than one field and often find success in 
real estate. They sometimes appear to be somewhat arrogant. 


SATURN IN SEVENTH HOUSE 


These people are travellers and may even get married to a foreigner. They 
tend to work in more than one occupation and be involved in illegal businesses for 
profit. They appear unemotional or unconcerned with others. Physically they may 
have hearing problems. 


SATURN IN EIGHTH HOUSE 


These people are capable in their careers but may be dishonest, unfaithful 
and unsocial. There could be separation from their children. There may be poor 
eyesight and problems with the body's elimination system. 


SATURN IN NINTH HOUSE 


These people are interested in philosophical and spiritual subject matters. 
They are prone to have problems with their superiors. They should become 
interested in politics or helping the poor. Physically, they are likely to have digestive 
problems. 


SATURN IN TENTH HOUSE 


These are generally honest, righteous people but may get involved in things 
or with people that get them into trouble. They have goals and work steadfastly to 
achieve them. They tend to have more than one marriage since the spouse may die 
before they do. They are successful in business with things that come from the 
earth. They travel to foreign lands and have severe ups and downs in life. 


74 


SATURN IN ELEVENTH HOUSE 


These are strong, hard working people who may become influential. They 
usually live and work far from the birthplace. They are successful in business with 
things that come from mother earth. 


SATURN IN TWELFTH HOUSE 


These are hard workers that, unfortunately, will have many problems. They 
suffer losses and have times in life when they are confined or forced to stay in an 
undesirable place. They are inclined to be secretive people, not liking to be bothered. 


In this following section remember that Rahu and Ketu act like Saturn and Mars 
respectively and will also pick up the traits of the ruler of the sign in which they 
are situated. To understand how Rahu or Ketu will act in a particular sign, look to 
how Saturn or Mars would be in that sign, how they are actually situated and also 
to the ruler of the sign in which it is situated Gf Virgo, look to Mercury; if Pisces, 
look to Jupiter, etc.) to see that planet's strength, or weakness. The following is a 
list of general descriptions of Rahu and Ketu in the houses. 


RAHU IN FIRST HOUSE 


These people may be somewhat unusual. They are very sexually inclined and 
experience divorce and remarriage. They tend to also be interested in spiritual 
subject matters. ‘ 


RAHU IN SECOND HOUSE 


These people are well intentioned but tend to be too talkative. Furthermore, 
they are not faithful to their mates and may also be attracted to smoking and 
intoxication. They suffer fluctuations in their career and financial situation, leading 
to debts. They may do illegal businesses, at times, for profit. 


RAHU IN THIRD HOUSE 


This position may cause problems both with brothers and within the marital 
relationship. People so,governed may be successful in the career but are very 
opinionated, which bothers others at times. However, they can be stoic and patient. 


RAHU IN FOURTH HOUSE 


These people generally live far from their place of birth. They may be influential 
but also sometimes believe in others when they shouldn't. They often have associates 
that are not a beneficial influence for their own progress in life. 


RAHU IN FIFTH HOUSE 


These persons like entertainment and games butare not satisfied within their 
minds. They won't have large families and may suffer the loss of a child or 
children. These subjects don't always use their intellect, consequently they suffer 
and they have rocky love lives and emotional upheavals. 


75 


RAHU IN SIXTH HOUSE 


These are hard working people who often prevail over others. They may have 
long lives and like to travel overseas. They are likely, physically, to suffer problems 
with the elimination system of the body. 


RAHU IN SEVENTH HOUSE 


These people keep much inside themselves. They may be powerful and 
communicate well, although their minds may be troubled. Marriage could be 
difficult in general and, in particular, their spouse may be unfaithful to them. 


RAHU IN EIGHTH HOUSE 


These people have some redeeming qualities to their credit but they may be 
disagreeable and earn a living by illegal means. Others are, usually, not happy 
with their actions. 


RAHU IN NINTH HOUSE 


These are definitely philosophical but also intense persons. They are politically 
far to the left and may be involved in criminal actions. At times they may have 
some power over others, but it is not long lasting. 


RAHU IN TENTH HOUSE 


This is a good position for Rahu and helps subjects to become successful in 
their career. They may become wealthy and achieve a high position in life. They 
work for the benefit of others and usually are philosophically and/or artistically 
inclined. 


RAHU IN ELEVENTH HOUSE 


This placement is the optimum, giving powerful, successful people that are 
self-controlled and should have great influence. They are helpful to spiritualists. 
On the down side they may have a deficiency in their hearing and may, at times, 
experience set backs of a general nature. 


RAHU IN TWELFTH HOUSE 


These people may suffer from disturbed sleep and poor eyesight. Digestive 
problems are also not uncommon. They will probably travel or move around a lot 
and may be dissatisfied with their love life. 


KETU IN FIRST HOUSE 


Those in this position are likely to be interested in the occult and/or spirituality. 
They are often mental dreamers with visions. Physically they may have an 
emaciated or skinny appearance. Not a strong placement for a long lifetime or 
materia] happiness. 


KETU IN SECOND HOUSE 
This is not a good position for financial or familial stability. Those so 


76 


governed must also learn to take care in what they eat. Speech problems and poor 
eyesight are indicated here also. 


KETU IN THIRD HOUSE 


This indicates strength of mind, giving the power to prevail over others in 
competition. Close family bonds, although, unfortunately, subjects may experience 
loss of a brother. May have physical debility in a limb. 


KETU IN FOURTH HOUSE 


This position gives spiritual interests but, materially, many losses of 
possessions. Not ideal for either the maternal relationship or for long-lasting 
friendships. Indicates fluctuations in career and a residence far from place of birth. 


KETU IN FIFTH HOUSE 


Despite high intellect, much mental distress is indicated, together with losses of 
finance, a small family and few friends. Subjects are susceptible to allergic reactions 
and digestive weakness. 


KETU IN SIXTH HOUSE 


This is a beneficial placement for Ketu and those so governed are likely to be 
powerful and find enjoyments in life. They tend to have common sense and generally 
are able to fulfil their desires. May be the most successful or powerful person in the 
birth family. Problems could be had with vision and the teeth. 


KETU IN SEVENTH HOUSE 


Subjects should guard against thieves and physically may have digestive or 
intestinal problems. May be famous but reclusive, with a marriage partner considered 
strange by others. 


KETU IN EIGHTH HOUSE 


Beware of enemies! Not an ideal placement for success in career or for long 
life. Bowel problems may arise on the physical side. Many material losses are 
indicated. Subjects engage in harmful activities for profit. However, often they 
have mystical or psychic abilities. 


KETU IN NINTH HOUSE 


Indicates a courageous person who cares for the upliftment of others. This is 
not good for business success or pleasing superiors. Subjects are prone to anger 
easily and family problems do not help this. There are also difficulties while travelling. 


KETU IN TENTH HOUSE 


This position makes for hard work, with slow end results, but which may be 
helpful to the population at large. Subjects are well-liked, but not by all. Travel is 
indicated especially to temples, churches, or mosques. 


77 


KETU IN ELEVENTH HOUSE 

Indicates influential, charitably minded people, with spiritual connotations, 
who realize their goals in life. However, they could be distressed, due to poor 
choice of associates and, physically, from digestive problems. 


KETU IN TWELFTH HOUSE 


Indicates myriad problems and/or losses of money and eneTgy. Subjects 
have difficulty sleeping peacefully and obtain little pleasure from their love life. 
They may be spiritually inclined, but the material life is fraught with insecurity, 
Subjects are physically prone to weak eyes. 


78 


THE STARS 


In addition to the twelve signs of the zodiac there are twenty-seven stars, also 
known as "Nakshatras", that are extremely important in astrology. Each star covers 
an area of 13 degrees 20 minutes so some overlap different signs. They will give 
more precise information of specific traits besides those indicated by the zodiacal 
sign and are the basis for choosing correct days and times to begin specific activities. 
Timing is very important to the results of an'endeavour, therefore one branch of 
astrology is concerned with finding an auspicious time to begin things, which will, 
in turn, bring more chance of a successful result. 

In a birth chart the influences of the stars are also extremely important, 
especially in reference to the rising star and Moon star, Each nakshatra covers a 
specific area within one or two signs. The following text will delineate the exact 
degrees within the signs where the nakshatras begin and end and the specific traits 
which result. 


ASHWINI 
(0 degrees through 13-20 degrees Aries) 


RISING STAR IS ASHWINI 


These are well-dressed, good-looking people that have many friends. They 
have strong morals, are quite capable in the career, determined and have a positive 
outlook on life. They have some humility, and find success. 


MOONSTAR IS ASHWINI 


These attractive people are intelligent, discreet, pleasant and of a satisfied 
nature. They can be inspirational to others. They love to travel. 


BHARANI 
{13-20 degrees through 26-40 degrees Aries) 


RISING STAR IS BHARANI 


These are brave, helpful people, who, while very sexually inclined, usually 
have small families. They can be gullible and may suffer from the envy of others. 
They generally have a good life span. 


MOON STAR IS BHARANI 


These people are physically healthy, talented in their career, and satisfied 
with their accomplishments. 


KARTTIKA 
(26-40 degrees Aries through 10 degrees Taurus) 


RISING STAR IS KARTTIKA 


These are very capable, heroic type persons that like to be in control and have high 
aspirations. They are honest, have good manners, and are usually successful, materially. 


79 


MOON STAR IS KARTTIKA 


These people may be determined to do what they set out to do, but often 
waiver mentally. They like to eat a lot, may be handsome in appearance and possibly 
famous in their circles. 


ROHINI 
(10 degrees through 23-20 degrees Taurus) 


RISING STARIS ROHINI 


These are good-looking, popular, capable people that may be found in 
leadership positions. They are philosophical, yet at times tend to be critical of 
others. They have a satisfying love life and generally are successful in their careers. 
They may go away from their parents when young and physically may have poor 
eyesight. 

MOON STAR IS ROHINI 


These people tend to be beautiful and be blessed with a wonderful nature. 
They are honest, self disciplined and nonenvious. 


MIRGASHIRA 
(23-20 degrees Taurus through 6-40 degrees Gemini) 


RISING STAR IS MIRGASHIRA 


These are beautiful people that like the finer things of life. They are fairly 
energetic, intelligent and like to learn a variety of things. They like to talk and sing. 
They are close to their mothers, but may have health problems in their youth. 


MOON STAR IS MIRGASHIRA 


Subjects may be affluent, gaining many pleasures in life. They are sensual, yet 
sometimes shy. Intelligent and hard workers, they avoid controversy and conflict, 
whenever possible. 


ARDRA 
(6-40 degrees through 20 degrees Gemini) 


RISING STAR IS ARDRA 


These people usually end up in an intellectually unstimulating position. They 
are physically strong and usually live a long life but may have tendencies to want 
to take what is not their own at times. They may also be critical of others. 


MOON STAR IS ARDRA 


This indicates people with a mean streak that may cause pain to others, or, 
conversely, it may indicate compassion for others in pain. Subjects may be 
somewhat arrogant and/or play tricks on others at times. 


80 


PUNARVASU 


(20 degrees Gemini through 3-20 degrees Cancer) 
RISING STAR IS PUNARVASU 


These are generous, intelligent and contented people who enjoy life. They like 
to move around and have a hard time committing to a relationship. Often they 
have self doubts and suffer from indecision. 


MOON STAR IS PUNARVASU 


These people have amiable personalities and seem to be fairly self<ontrolled 
and contented. Physically they may be bothered by sickness. 


PUSHYA 
(3-20 degrees through 16-40 degrees Cancer) 


RISING STAR IS PUSHYA 


These are wonderfully considerate, thoughtful, sincere and philosophical 
people. Good communicators, they generally become quite successful in their 
career. They are responsible family members. 


MOON STAR IS PUSHYA 


These popular people are very intelligent, with much knowledge. They are 
fairly pious and have controlled minds. 


ASHLESHA 
(16-40 degrees Cancer through 0 degrees Leo) 


RISING STAR IS ASHLESHA 


These people have much energy but need to learn how to channel it into 
more noble pursuits. They may be a little unkind to others and are uncomfortable 
in groups of people outside of their immediate friendship circle. 


MOON STAR IS ASHLESHA 


These people may have trouble regulating their eating habits. They may be 
strong but are prone to bad habits. 


MAGHA 
(0 degrees through 13-20 degrees Leo) 


RISING STARIS MAGHA 


These are very intelligent, well mannered and extremely successful people. 
They may become rich and gain much happiness in life. People like them but they, 
themselves, have a distaste for particular persons that they, at times come into 
contact with. They are achievers and get theirjobs done as needed. They are sensually 
indined but also have a religious nature. 


81 


MOON STAR IS MAGHA 


These people may be affluent and obtain many pleasures in life. They may be 
attractive and powerful physically. They are honest, charitable and successful people. 


PURVAPHALGUNI 


(13-20 degrees through 26-40 degrees Leo) 
RISING STAR IS PURVAPHALGUNI 


These are very energetic people with a healthy physical constitution. They are 
well suited to positions of authority for they are kind and generous. They like 
action in their lives. 


MOON STAR IS PURVAPHALGUNI 


These people have a shining countenance and are very open minded as to 
what other people may do. They are faithful to what, or whom, they may believe in 
and like to travel 


UTTARAPHALGUNI 


(26-40 degrees Leo through 10 degrees Virgo) 
RISING STAR IS UTTARAPHALGUNI 


These are good-looking and intelligent people that become successful in the 
career. They may become wealthy and have a high opinion of themselves. They are 
very sensually inclined and have a varied love life. 


MOON STAR IS UTTARAPHALGUNI 


These attractive, popular people may be teachers, leaders or involved in 
research. They are contented and kind. Materially they are inclined to purchase 


property. 


HASTA 
(10 degrees through 23-20 degrees Virgo) 
RISING STAR IS HASTA 


These are capable people with an attractive disposition, good at communicating 
and enjoy travelling. They are determined and somewhat conservative in their 
actions. They care for and like to socialize with others. 


MOON STAR IS HASTA 


These people need to control their lower nature. They are conscientious 
workers but like to drink or take other intoxicants and may, as a result, become 
obnoxious. 


82 


CHITRA 
{23-20 degrees Virgo through 640 degrees Libra) 
RISING STAR IS CHITRA 


These people usually move far from the home town. They like beautiful 
clothes and jewellfy and have a strong and active love life. Often they have many 
different interests. At times they can be a little condescending towards others. 


MOON STAR IS CHITRA 


This indicates a person that has alluring eyes and a gorgeous body. 


SWATI 


(6-40 degrees through 20 degrees Libra) 
RISING STAR IS SWATI 


These are kind and seemingly self-satisfied people who take their time in 
doing things, so much so that others may think they're not very capable. They do 
not live in the place they were born and have religious inclinations. 


MOON STAR IS SWATI 


These people are honest and have a pleasant disposition. They have some 
humility and care about others. They speak well and are very capable in business. 


VISHAKHA 
(20 degrees Libra through 3-20 degrees Scorpio) 


RISING STAR IS VISHAKHA 


These may be philosophical people that have knowledge. They are energetic, 
like to talk but have little patience and can quickly become upset. They should try 
to gain more self-control. They may become wealthy. 


MOON STAR IS VISHAKHA 


These people are excellent communicators and have a pleasant aura about 
them. Unfortunately they also have an argumentative and jealous side, which can 
result in disagreements. 


ANURADHA 


(3-20 degrees through 16-40 degrees Scorpio) 
RISING STAR IS ANURADHA 


These attractive people are generally 'spiritualists’, although they may 
become somewhat depressed at times. They are rather shy in groups of people but 
love being with their families. They usually live away from the town in which they 
were born and enjoy travel, 


83 


MOON STAR IS ANURADHA 


Attractive people who are kind and especially like to be with their families. 
They may be somewhat shy around groups of people. They also enjoy travelling. 


JYESTHA 
(16-40 degrees Scorpio through 0 degrees Sagittarius) 


RISING STAR IS JYESTHA 


These are respectable people that are extremely capable of accomplishing 
their goals in life. Others may look up to them and they may have fair sized families 
or a good number of associates. They act and speak well and are very sensually 
inclined. 


MOON STAR IS JYESTHA 


Subjects may be generally satisfied, happy and have worthwhile qualities but 
they may, at times, be moody. 


MULA 


(0 degrees through 13-20 degrees Sagittarius) 
RISING STAR IS MULA 


These are intelligent and good-looking people that may be troubled by sickness 
at various times. They are knowledgeable and are goal setters, although the mind 
occasionally may be a little wavering. They have problems within the marriage. 


MOON STAR IS MULA 


These affable, but determined people, are fairly successful in life. They are 
satisfied with their accomplishments and like to live well. 


PURVASHADHA 


(13-20 degrees through 26-40 degrees Sagittarius) 
RISING STAR IS PURVASHADHA 


Subjects may not have a very advanced education but often have humility, 
making them pleasant to be around. They are very social people and often have 
large families and/or circle of friends. 


MOON STAR IS PURVASHADHA 


These people make excellent friends and are fair to all. They are faithful and 
happy in life. They also usually have a spouse with many good qualities. 


84 


UTTARASHADHA 
(26-40 degrees Sagittarius through 10 degrees Capricorn) 
RISING STAR IS UTTARASHADHA 


Intelligent, fun-loving people, who may become well known. They are 
sensually inclined and have a varied love life. They must beware of enemies. They 
are generous and kind towards others and are wise counsellors. 


MOON STAR IS UTTARASHADHA 


These friendly people have good manners and many other fine qualities. 
They are appreciative of others and usually have a wide circle of friends. 


SHRAVAN 
{10 degrees through 23-20 degrees Capricorn) 
RISING STAR IS SHRAVAN 


These are intelligent people that have a sound education. They generally 
move away from where they were born, are philosophically inclined and have 
small families. They may become famous but they must beware of enemies. 


MOON STAR IS SHRAVAN 


These people are quick learners and usually gain much knowledge. They 
may become rich and well-known, Usually they also have a kind and well 
disposed spouse. 


DHANISHTA 
{23-20 degrees Capricorn through 6-40 degrees Aquarius) 
RISING STAR IS DHANISHTHA 


These are usually strong people that may be generous at various times. They 
have strong egos and may engage in “confrontation” within the marriage. 


MOON STAR IS DHANISHTHA 


This person lusts after acquisition and may become rich, yet is also generous. 
They may be brave anda little reckless. They like to listen to music. 


SATABISHA 
(6-40 degrees through 20 degrees Aquarius) 
RISING STAR IS SATABISHA 


These are philosophical, unobtrusive people that usually don't have many 
children. They usually assist others in their work. They can have a devious aspect 
to their nature. 


85 


MOON STAR IS SATABISHA 


These people have problems in life but are brave and usually prevail over 
those that come up against them. They may be a bit stubborn, due to their 
experiences. 


PURVABHADRAPADA 
(20 degrees Aquarius through 3-20 degrees Pisces) 


RISING STAR IS PURVABHADRAPADA 


These are hard-working people that like to frequently relocate. They may 
have unusual methods of accomplishing their objectives. They are philosophical 
people, but extremely sensually inclined as well. They may be somewhat nervous 
in nature but live long lives. 


MOON STAR IS PURVABHADRAPADA 


These people may be constantly harassed by their spouse or family. They are 
extremely capable in their career and may become rich but are not known for their 
generosity. 


UTTARABHADRAPADA 
(3-20 degrees through 16-40 degrees Pisces) 


RISING STAR IS UTTARABHADRAPADA 


These people are a little eccentric. They are a bit shy but can speak well. They 
have a desire to become rich and change their minds a lot. They are somewhat 
philosophical, love their families but must be careful of enemies, 


MOON STAR IS UTTARABHADRAPADA 


These people are satisfied in life and are good communicators. They have 
many outstanding qualities and are helpful to others. They love their families and 
prevail over those that may be opposed to them. 


REVATI 


(16-40 degrees Pisces through 0 degrees Aries) 
RISING STAR IS REVATI 


These are good-looking, well mannered and brave people that may be very 
successful in their endeavours. They have a good physical constitution and nice 
habits. They are sensual, get along well with others and are adept at giving 
intelligent advice. 


MOON STAR IS REVATI 


These people are popular, pleasant looking, have good hygienic habits and 
mental fortitude. 


86 


TEMPORARY NATURE OF PLANETS 


As stated earlier, the planets have benefic or malefic (positive and negative) 
natures. Jupiter, Venus, Moon, and Mercury are natural benefics and Sun, Mars, 
Saturn, Rahu, and Ketu are natural malefics. Rahu and Ketu are almost always 
malefic, except in rare circumstances, but the other planets have a "temporary" 
nature as malefic or benefic, according to the rising sign. Therefore, when interpreting 
the horoscope and/or making predictions, the natural qualities, as well as the 
temporary nature of a planet, must be taken into account. 

The following are the temporary natures of the planets, according to the 
rising sign. The reasoning behind this is that certain houses are considered 
auspicious and certain others are considered inauspicious, according to the 
categories of life that the houses rule over. Sometimes naturally benefic planets 
rule malefic houses (due to sign ownership) and naturally malefic planets rule 
benefic houses. For example, under Taurus rising Jupiter and the Moon are temporary 
malefics as Jupiter owns the eighth and eleventh houses, and the Moon rules the 
third house, none of which are considered to be auspicious houses. 

Furthermore, according to the rising sign, a planet may be considered neutral 
and one planet may be considered a "yoga-karaka", or the most powerful planet in 
the chart. 

For the following rising signs, or ascendants (meaning this sign is in the first 
house of the horoscope), the planets take on temporary natures, as follows: 


ARIES RISING 


Jupiter, Mars and Sun are benefic rulers. Venus, Saturn, and Mercury are 
malefic rulers. Moon is neutral. 


TAURUS RISING 


Mercury, Sun and Venus are benefic rulers. Moon and Jupiter are malefic 
rulers. Mars is neutral. Saturn is yoga-karaka. 


GEMINI RISING 


Saturn, Mercury,and Venus are benefic rulers. Jupiter, Mars and Sun are 
malefic rulers. Moon is neutral. 


CANCER RISING 


Jupiter and Moon are benefic rulers. Venus, Mercury and Saturn are malefic 
rulers. Sun is neutral. Mars is yoga-karaka. 


LEO RISING 


Jupiter and Sun are benefic rulers. Saturn, Mercury and Venus are malefic 
rulers. Moon is neutral. Mars is yoga-karaka. 


87 


VIRGO RISING 


Mercury and Venus are benefic rulers. Jupiter, Mars and Moon are malefic 
rulers. Saturn and Sun are neutral. 


LIBRA RISING 


Venus, Moon and Mercury are benefic rulers. Jupiter, Sun and Mars are 
malefic rulers. Saturn is yoga-karaka. 


SCORPIO RISING 


Jupiter, Sun, Moon and Mars are benefic rulers. Saturn, Mercury and Venus 
are malefic rulers. 


SAGITTARIUS RISING 


Jupiter, Mars and Sun are benefic rulers. Mercury, Saturn and Venus are 
malefic rulers. Moon is neutral. 


CAPRICORN RISING 


Mercury and Saturn are benefic rulers. Mars, Jupiter and Moon are malefic 
rulers. Sun is neutral. Venus is yoga-karaka. 


AQUARIUS RISING 


Mars, Sun, Mercury and Saturn are benefic rulers. Moon and Jupiter are 
malefic rulers. Venus is yoga-karaka. 


PISCES RISING 


Jupiter, Moon and Mars are benefic rulers. Venus, Saturn, Sun and Mercury 
are malefic rulers. 


88 


RULERSHIP (LORDSHIP) YOGAS 


Another important tool for interpreting the horoscope is the rulership or 
lordship yogas. We have already delineated the rulers or lords of the particular 
signs, i.e., Sun is ruler (lord) of Leo; Moon is ruler of Cancer; Mars is ruler of Aries 
and Scorpio; Mercury is ruler of Gemini and Virgo; Jupiter is ruler of Sagittarius 
and Pisces; Venus is ruler of Taurus and Libra; Saturn is ruler of Capricorn and 
Aquarius. 

Therefore, according to which sign is rising in the horoscope, the planets will 
own different houses, as the signs they own will also be in different houses. For 
example, for Aries rising, Mars owns the first house and the eighth house as Mars 
rules Aries and Scorpio. As another example: for Gemini rising, Mars rules the 
sixth and eleventh houses as Scorpio and Aries occupy these houses respectively. 
Again, if Aries is rising in the horoscope and Mars is occupying the third house, 
then we would say that Mars is the ruler, or lord, of the first house in the third 
house. It would also be ruler of the eighth house in the third house. 

The following are a list of rulership yogas, by houses and the traits which are 
associated with those individuals so influenced. 


RULER OF THE FIRST HOUSE 


RULER OF FIRST HOUSE IN FIRST 


Subjects are well built physically and good-looking. They are independent 
and may be seen as conceited by others. They may become famous and usually 
have more than one mate. 


RULER OF FIRST HOUSE IN SECOND 


Subjects are kind, generous people, with good discretion. Loves family life, 
but has small family A sound business person who make a success of ventures. 


RULER OF FIRST HOUSE IN THIRD 


These people usually have more than one marriage. They are outspoken, with 
myriad talents. They tend to be kind and are admired. 


RULER OF FIRST HOUSE IN FOURTH 


Subjects are successful in gaining possessions, such as homes and cars. They 
are popular due to their extrovert nature. 


RULER OF FIRST HOUSE IN FIFTH 


These intelligent people are also sensually inclined. They may experience 
distresses in later years due to their children. They are good communicators. 


89 


RULER OF FIRST HOUSE IN SIXTH 


During their lives these persons seem to have problems at every turn. They 
may be frequently sick and envious people also try to give them problems. 
However, on the positive side they can rise above and overcome such problems. 


RULER OF FIRST HOUSE IN SEVENTH 


These successful career people travel widely and communicate well. 
However, they may have problems with their chosen mate. 


RULER OF FIRST HOUSE IN EIGHTH 


Subjects have good intelligence and a capacity to gain much knowledge. They 
are sexually inclined, with desire for more than one partner, and may also often be 
sick, when young. 


RULER OF FIRST HOUSE IN NINTH 


Subjects tend to live good, clean lives, with many pleasures. Good communi- 
cators, they are also religiously inclined, with compassion for others. 


RULER OF FIRST HOUSE IN TENTH 


These good-looking people have self-confidence, set high goals for them- 
selves and feel their work is extremely important.They achieve great success in 
their careers and may become well-known. 


RULER OF FIRST HOUSE IN ELEVENTH 


These are powerful and influential people who are very successful, with great 
gains in the career. They are satisfied people that achieve their goals and a high 
income. 


RULER OF FIRST HOUSE IN TWELFTH 


These persons, unsuccessful in their careers, turn to spirituality or 
philanthropic work. They may also suffer material losses. 


RULER OF THE SECOND HOUSE 
RULER OF SECOND HOUSE IN FIRST 


Such people are somewhat crude in words and actions and, at times. lusty to 
the point of creating disturbances in the family. However, they are successful in 
business affairs. 


RULER OF SECOND HOUSE IN SECOND 


These people have many opportunities to satisfy their material desires. They 
may accumulate wealth and have a full love life, although the tendency is often for 
a small family. They may have a sharp tongue. 


RULER OF SECOND HOUSE IN THIRD 


These people are very materialistic, with little spiritual inclination. 
Consequently, they may tend to misuse the good intelligence with which they have 
been endowed. 


RULER OF SECOND HOUSE IN FOURTH 


These intelligent subjects may be particularly successful in property dealings 
and may inherit money from their mother. 


RULER OF SECOND HOUSE IN FIFTH 


Very sexually inclined, they may be cruel and materialistic subjects tending to 
use others to gain income and also have problems within the family group. 


RULER OF SECOND HOUSE IN SIXTH 


These sensual people tend to be involved with the underworld and, as a 
result suffer problems from the government. Others find their motives may be 
difficult to understand. They must guard their property from theft. 


RULER OF SECOND HOUSE IN SEVENTH 


These subjects may be doctors or nurses and often travel for business 
projects. They also tend to be unfaithfulin marital relationships. 


RULER OF SECOND HOUSE IN EIGHTH 


Career success doesn't come easily to these people who have problems in 
communication with others, causing distress. Marriage may also be problematic, 
but, financially, could receive inheritance. 


RULER OF SECOND HOUSE IN NINTH 


These subjects may suffer sickness as a youth but later enjoy success in business 
and their career. They may be somewhat pious and gain knowledge in worthy subjects. 


91 


RULER OF SECOND HOUSE IN TENTH 


Quite knowledgeable people but may be "full of themselves". They are good 
communicators with love for the opposite sex. They may be successful, especially 
in a career dealing with products that come from the earth. 


RULER OF SECOND HOUSE IN ELEVENTH 


A position which results in great success in both material and spiritual 
realms. Subjects make sound business partners and have a reliable group of social 
contacts. There is an inclination to physical pleasures. 


RULER OF SECOND HOUSE IN TWELFTH 


Generous to causes they believe in but outspoken and somewhat egotistical; 
these people do not make the best business associates, especially as they are 
willing to take risky chances. 


RULER OF THE THIRD HOUSE 
RULER OF THIRD HOUSE IN FIRST 


Subjects are often self-sufficient personalities and may also be boastful and 
showy. They tend toward anger and may become violent, if aroused. 


RULER OF THIRD HOUSE IN SECOND 


These people may be fairly good communicators but, do not have a lot of 
energy. They may also be involved in illegalities for profit. 


RULER OF THIRD HOUSE IN THIRD 


Subjects are prone to be forceful in both speech and actions. They may make 
money through the media. They are happy in life and there is harmony in the 
household. 


RULER OF THIRD HOUSE IN FOURTH 


Good, intelligent people who gain a fair measure of success. The marital partner 
may be unfaithful or, at times, do things which are upsetting. 


RULER OF THIRD HOUSE IN FIFTH 


Tends to cause those influenced to be sharp in business, with substantial 
monetary gains. However, they worry about their love lives. They may produce 
powerful offspring. 


RULER OF THIRD HOUSE IN SIXTH 


This influence results in indiscretion and misuse of intelligence when it comes 
to matters of the heart and career. They may also suffer from family problems. 


RULER OF THIRD HOUSE IN SEVENTH 


These people may have numerous problems with their mates and with many 
other people, due to their own actions. There is personal suffering when young. 


RULER OF THIRD HOUSE IN EIGHTH 


This is not a strong position for happiness or success in life. Subjects may 
have physical or mental problems and may earn through illegal means. 


RULER OF THIRD HOUSE IN NINTH 


This position often results in career advancement through a good marriage or 
partner. Subjects may be involved in communications. They may have a deep and 
solid relationship with a brother. 


93 


RULER OF THIRD HOUSE IN TENTH 


This person is intelligent and a good communicator, with the drive to 
accomplish their goals in life. Their partner may be unfaithful. They may also have 
a famous brother. 


RULER OF THIRD HOUSE IN ELEVENTH 


This position produces powerful, self sufficient types, with strong will power. 
They may be showy or boastful, witha tendency towards anger. 


RULER OF THIRD HOUSE IN TWELFTH 


Subjects tend to have many ups and downs in life and may have substantial 
losses at times. They experience impermanent relationships with others and prefer 
solitude. 


RULER OF THE FOURTH HOUSE 


RULER OF FOURTH HOUSE IN FIRST 


Subjects may be conscientious students and gain considerable knowledge 
from their studies. On the personal front there may be losses of family property, or 
separation of family members. 


RULER OF FOURTH HOUSE IN SECOND 


This position results in a successful person with good education and business 
acumen, who makes a good living. An achiever and goal setter who fulfils many 
desires and becomes satisfied with their living situation. 


RULER OF FOURTH HOUSE IN THIRD 


These people have the energy to accomplish what they set out to do. They 
have a strong physical constitution. Problems may stem from their spouse's family. 


RULER OF FOURTH HOUSE IN FOURTH 


These are intelligent and educated people who achieve success in careers or 
businesses dealing with real estate, automobiles, or machinery. They care for others 
and have good morals. Their mother is often considered a wonderful person. 


RULER OF FOURTH HOUSE IN FIFTH 


This situation results in subjects of great intelligence who may also be reli- 
gious or philanthropic. Children may also make this person proud. May earn 
through real estate or property management. 


RULER OF FOURTH HOUSE IN SIXTH 


Subject may acquire debts and incur the wrath of others. They may be untrust- 
worthy and unable to persevere, while having to learn to control their anger. They 
live far from their birthplace. 


RULER OF FOURTH HOUSE IN SEVENTH 


Such people are successful in real estate business and invest money wisely. 
They are very sensually inclined and their mate is an asset. There may be overseas 
travel. 


RULER OF FOURTH HOUSE IN EIGHTH 


This is not a good position for making profits on investments. Those so 
influenced may have mental agitation from being bothered by irrational people or, 
at times, from people who are completely insane. They may, as a child, lose or 
become separated from a parent. 


95 


RULER OF FOURTH HOUSE IN NINTH 


This a beneficial placement that allows for both material and spiritual 
happiness. Subjects are intelligent and well educated, with many friends. They are 
helpful and enjoy learning new things. 


RULER OF FOURTH HOUSE IN TENTH 


This position results in conscientious people who are skilled in their work and 
who may profit from business involving real estate, automobiles, or machinery. 


RULER OF FOURTH HOUSE IN ELEVENTH 


This placement influences a subject to be an adept communicator who mixes 
well with groups and individuals alike. They wish for success in their endeavours 
and are usually successful. 


RULER OF FOURTH HOUSE IN TWELFTH 


This placement is not prone to giving material success or harmony in life. 
Material upheavals are common, making subjects more interested in spirituality. 


RULER OF THE FIFTH HOUSE 


RULER OF FIFTH HOUSE IN FIRST 


This influence produces highly educated people whose opinions are valued. 
Their children may also be held in high regard. Generally they are most capable in 
their endeavours. 


RULER OF FIFTH HOUSE IN SECOND 


This situation produces very perceptive people who generally have a happy 
family life, adequate finances and tend to have large families. 


RULER OF FIFTH HOUSE IN THIRD 


Often this placement results in an intelligent person with a good birth and 
marital family. It may also result in having siblings who are successful in their chosen 
careers. 


RULER OF FIFTH HOUSE IN FOURTH 


This position produces an educated person with reliable friendships and a 
comfortable living situation. They are inclined to become involved in real estate business. 


RULER OF FIFTH HOUSE IN FIFTH 


This situation tends to result in an intelligent person who often meets with 
success through business in finance or entertainment. They may have anxiety over 
a member of their family, or child. 


RULER OF FIFTH HOUSE IN SIXTH 


This person is a materialist and has little interest in religion or spirituality. 
Children may cause mental distress or other problems. 


RULER OF FIFTH HOUSE IN SEVENTH 


Often results in a successful person with many noble qualities that endear 
them to others. An efficient and honest business person, with much to say. 
Children may be very successful. 


RULER OF FIFTH HOUSE IN EIGHTH 


This is not a calm or generally satisfied person. They are prone to fall into 
debt and have losses in their career. They may have problems in the lungs or chest 
area, and must learn to control their anger. 


RULER OF FIFTH HOUSE IN NINTH 


This tends to produce a successful person with a host of wonderful qualities, 
an excellent communicator with strong moral fibre. Children also tend to develop 
fine qualities. 


97 


RULER OF FIFTH HOUSE IN TENTH 


Indicates a successful person who makes effective use of their time and 
money, rendering them financially stable. They tend to have friends in high places 
and their children will be successful. 


RULER OF FIFTH HOUSE IN ELEVENTH 


An appropriate placement for receiving a full education and being happy in 
life. A successful subject with many outstanding qualities. Children will also attain 
success. 


RULER OF FIFTH HOUSE IN TWELFTH 


This person may experience losses in the family and in the career as a result 
of this placement. A traveller who is spiritually inclined. 


RULER OF THE SIXTH HOUSE 
RULER OF SIXTH HOUSE IN FIRST 


These people tend to gravitate towards living in a group or institution of 
some sort, far from their birthplace. They may also have health problems. 


RULER OF SIXTH HOUSE IN SECOND 


Those subject to the influence of this poor position are not particularly 
successful in their career or happy in the home situation and encounter difficulty 
in financial affairs. Physically there may be problems with eyesight and teeth. 


RULER OF SIXTH HOUSE IN THIRD 


These people tend to irritate others, due to a bad attitude and lack of respect. 
They need to control their anger. and may be somewhat artistic. 


RULER OF SIXTH HOUSE IN FOURTH 


Subjects have a dissatisfaction with their environment and general position in 
life which manifests itself in frequent relocation. People become upset about the 
instability of this person. They may also feel a lack of maternal love. There may be 
health problems in the chest area. 


RULER OF SIXTH HOUSE IN FIFTH 


Subjects may be successful in their business or career and enjoy the resulting 
opulence but must be’ careful of dealing in unrighteous businesses. They may 
spend time away from the family. 


RULER OF SIXTH HOUSE IN SIXTH 


Overseas travel and business in foreign places may become manifest for 
subjects who may also have abilities as healers. 


RULER OF SIXTH HOUSE IN SEVENTH 


These people may be successful in business, but unhappy with their sexual 
relationships. The spouse may be physically weak. Travel overseas, at various 
times, is indicated. 

RULER OF SIXTH HOUSE IN EIGHTH 

Subjects should be careful of getting into trouble or incurring losses due to 

the actions of others. Career difficulties are also indicated. 


RULER OF SIXTH HOUSE IN NINTH 


This position indicates that legal problems and difficulties with their father 
may arise. There may be frequent travel overseas, for business or pleasure. 


° 9 


RULER OF SIXTH HOUSE IN TENTH 


This person has a difficult time making advancement in their career. Poor 
jiscretion may be there and they may make enemies. 


RULER OF SIXTH HOUSE IN ELEVENTH 


Powerful people, with highly placed friends, that meet with success. 
However, they are considerate of the needs and desires of other people. 


RULER OF SIXTH HOUSE IN TWELFTH 


Subjects are not of strong mental or physical constitution and must leam 
regulation in their lives or they may easily become ill. They may have philosophical 
interests. 


100 


RULER OF THE SEVENTH HOUSE 


RULER OF SEVENTH HOUSE IN FIRST 


Subjects find much energy expended in their occupation. They may be a trav- 
eller or do business requiring some travel, and are considerate of their spouse. 


RULER OF SEVENTH HOUSE,IN SECOND 


Subjects are financially secure but are too preoccupied with sexual relationships 
and other sensual pleasures. Health may be adversely affected due to overconsumption. 
They should learn moderation and develop spiritual interests. 


RULER OF SEVENTH HOUSE IN THIRD 


This position tends towards a powerful or overpowering person. 
Nevertheless, they will mix well with others. They may experience loss of a child. 


RULER OF SEVENTH HOUSE IN FOURTH 


This tends to produce intelligent people who progress to higher education. 
Gains a wonderful spouse and enjoys adequate financial prosperity while working 
for the benefit of many others. 


RULER OF SEVENTH HOUSE IN FIFTH 


This is a very good position. Subjects are fortunate in marriage, children and 
their career. They may become rich and could work in the entertainment industry. 


RULER OF SEVENTH HOUSE IN SIXTH 


Not a good position for marital happiness. Subjects may contract sexually 
transmitted diseases and/or be unhappy in their love life. 


RULER OF SEVENTH HOUSE IN SEVENTH 


These people tend to be inspirational, having bright ideas and making for 
success in business or the career. They have communicative abilities and are also 
“lucky in love". 


RULER OF SEVENTH HOUSE IN EIGHTH 


An unfavourable position whereby subjects have problems with their love 
lives and indeed their marriage partner may commit illegal acts, landing them in 
prison, or may suffer an early death. Subjects also have difficulties in their career, 
but do have an interest in philosophy. They may die far from their birthplace. 


RULER OF SEVENTH HOUSE IN NINTH 


This good position makes for a wealthy or powerful person who is happy 
with their spouse and successful in their career, which may involve fruitful travels. 


101 


RULER OF SEVENTH HOUSEIN TENTH 


This generally produces a person who predominates o et others, is successful 
in both the career and marriage and makes a reliable business partner. 


RULER OF SEVENTH HOUSE IN ELEVENTH 


Such people may become wealthy, influential and successful in their career. 
Generally the spouse's family is "high-class". 


RULER OF SEVENTH HOUSEIN TWELFTH 


These people suffer setbacks in business and may lose their marriage partner 
due to different reasons. They are not always comfortable around others. Mentally 
they may be preoccupied with sex and need to try to divest themselves of this 
obsession for spiritual progress. 


102 


RULER OF THE EIGHTH HOUSE 


RULER OF EIGHTH HOUSE IN FIRST 


Subjects may be spiritually inclined but suffer many failures in business and 
in their love life. Physical health is poor and they are often indiscreet in what they 
may voice to others. 


RULER OF EIGHTH HOUSE IN SECOND 


Many losses are incurred by those with this placement. They must learn to 
speak more kindly about and to others They may also engage in illegal business for 
profit. 


RULER OF EIGHTH HOUSE IN THIRD 
This person must learn to become more kindly disposed to others. There may 


be a loss of physical and/or mental energy and problems within the family. 


RULER OF EIGHTH HOUSE IN FOURTH 


Those influenced have an unstable family life, when young. They tend to 
waste their money and may have ignoble desires. Need to learn more self- control. 


RULER OF EIGHTH HOUSE IN FIFTH 


This usually results in a capable, compassionate person who generally has 
few siblings and/or children. In fact a child may go away, or suffer early death. 
Physically there can be digestion problems. 


RULER OF EIGHTH HOUSE IN SIXTH 
Subjects tend to find dissatisfaction with job or career. They are generally of a 
weak physical constitution and may be preyed upon by cheats or thieves. 


RULER OF EIGHTH HOUSE IN SEVENTH 


Business advancement may often prove to be difficult for these people who 
may also divorce, due to the intolerable personality or actions of their spouse. 


RULER OF EIGHTH HOUSE IN EIGHTH 


This position produces a very influential person, who may live to a ripe old 
age and get an inheritance, but may have some unbecoming inclinations which 
should be guarded against. 


RULER OF EIGHTH HOUSE IN NINTH 


This undisciplined person has problems in both the birth and marriage family. 
They may also suffer losses in relation to people once close to them. 


103 


RULER OF EIGHTH HOUSE IN TENTH 


This position tends to produce capable people, yet difficulties arise in their 
career and success may be evasive. They may get inheritance from the family. 
Physically they should be careful of back problems. 


RULER OF EIGHTH HOUSE IN ELEVENTH 

Eccentricities may be present in the personality of these people but they still 
make good friends. Physically they may experience pain in the ears. 
RULER OF EIGHTH HOUSE IN TWELFTH 


Not a favourable position for success or fulfilment in the career and financial 
affairs are generally weak. However such people do have the positive feature of 
spiritual awareness. 


RULER OF THE NINTH HOUSE 
RULER OF NINTH HOUSE IN FIRST 


This position tends to produce happy and generous people with many fine 
qualities. They are contented, philosophical and dutiful. 


RULER OF NINTH HOUSE IN SECOND 


These people meet with success in both material and spiritual spheres of life. 
They make financial and material gains and have excellent communicative 
abilities. 

RULER OF NINTH HOUSE IN THIRD 


Born as good communicators, these people tend to rise out of their family 
social class. They have a pleasant disposition and are fairly successful in their 
careers. 


RULER OF NINTH HOUSE IN FOURTH 


This position usually leads to a successful career person. They may be property 
owners and lead a full social life. 


RULER OF NINTH HOUSE IN FIFTH 


These are intelligent, capable people whose opinions are of value and who 
enjoy success and prosperity in both the birth and marital family. 


RULER OF NINTH HOUSE IN SIXTH 


This position causes many difficulties in career advancement but, with 
perseverance, success can be had to some degree. There may be disagreements 
within the family. 


RULER OF NINTH HOUSE IN SEVENTH 


Persons with this placement meet with success and happiness. They are able 
to achieve what they desire, get a nice spouse and have both material prosperity, as 
well as spiritual fulfilment. 


RULER OF NINTH HOUSE IN EIGHTH 


This position often results in a lonely and frustrated person. They may lose 
their father when young and may deal in illegal businesses. 


RULER OF NINTH HOUSE IN NINTH 


This person is blessed with many noble qualities. They are great communica- 
tors and may be inspirational to others. They are religious and also successful in 
career and gaining wealth. 


105 


RULER OF NINTH HOUSE IN TENTH 


This is a position for success in the career, wealth, good friends, education 
and sensibility. 


RULER OF NINTH HOUSE IN ELEVENTH 


This is a successful person with many opportunities to enjoy life. Reliable 
friends are gained, along with financial prosperity. 


RULER OF NINTH HOUSE IN TWELFTH 


These unselfish people are hard, steady workers but may have problems with 
their superiors at times. They are caring and have spiritual interests. 


106 


RULER OF THE TENTH HOUSE 


RULER OF TENTH HOUSE IN FIRST 


This situation produces an adept communicator and very capable person 
who can accomplish things impossible for most. They have desires to help the general 
population by their actions. 


RULER OF TENTH HOUSE IN SECOND 


Powerful and wealthy people who may enjoy success in their family's busi- 
ness, or may often be jewellers, restauranteurs or merchants in produce. 


RULER OF TENTH HOUSE IN THIRD 


These people may be powerful and energetic. Usually they are well-educated 
and possess humanitarian desires. Family ties are strong especially with brothers 
and their own children. 


RULER OF TENTH HOUSE IN FOURTH 


Subjects tend to be well-mannered, educated people that are greatly respected 
and popular with others. The facility for material gains is good. 


RULER OF TENTH HOUSE IN FIFTH 


This is a fortunate placement, indicating wealth and prosperity and children 
may also be very successful. A career in the entertainment industry is a possibility. 


RULER OF TENTH HOUSE IN SIXTH 


This position usually puts subjects in a service position with mediocre gains. 
There is a tendency to be underhanded for profit. 


RULER OF TENTH HOUSE IN SEVENTH 


A fortunate situation which results in success in life, both business and marital. 
Excellent communicators who may attain to some measure of fame. 


RULER OF TENTH HOUSE IN EIGHTH 


A difficult position and subjects should be wary of influences. They may be 
inclined to engage in harmful activities that can land them in jail. They may end up 
as a spiritualist with no material accomplishments to speak of. It is also not a 
sound influence for professional success. 


RULER OF TENTH HOUSE IN NINTH 


This is an excellent placement for success in all endeavours. These popular 
people enjoy family life, advancement in career and may wield considerable 
influence. 


107 


RULER OF TENTH HOUSE IN TENTH 


These subjects are very successful in their career and perform noble works. 
They tend to befriend highly-placed and influential associates and may attain an 
influential position, becoming famous as a result. They may also receive a family 
inheritance. 


RULER OF TENTH HOUSE IN ELEVENTH 


Those so influenced benefit from good family ties and also get much 
enjoyment and sense gratification in life. They may be rich, powerful and important 
to the success of others. 


RULER OF TENTH HOUSE IN TWELFTH 


Not a good position for material or career advancement but they may be 
spiritually inclined. Subjects may act in negative ways in all spheres of life and 
should strive to overcome this with a more positive attitude. 


108 


RULER OF THE ELEVENTH HOUSE 
RULER OF ELEVENTH HOUSE IN FIRST 


A position for opportunity, especially in relation to money, friends and material 
pleasures. 


RULER OF ELEVENTH HOUSE IN SECOND 


A position which tends to produce subjects with excellent capabilities for 
wealth and success and, consequently, may enjoy a luxurious lifestyle. They could 
have particular success in partnership businesses. 


RULER OF ELEVENTH HOUSE IN THIRD 


These people are good communicators that can influence others. They have 
kind relatives and may take a career in the art world. 


RULER OF ELEVENTH HOUSE IN FOURTH 


This is a strong placement for the fulfilment of material desires. Money may 
be gained through land or real estate transactions or an inheritance. They tend to 
have influential friends. 


RULER OF ELEVENTH HOUSE IN FIFTH 


This influence tends to produce an educated and good-hearted person. They 
usually have small families. In business they may gamble on unusual ventures, 
which may reap high returns. 


RULER OF ELEVENTH HOUSE IN SIXTH 


Subjects may feel uncomfortable in public or situations of prominence but 
while they may be argumentative, they excel in supportive roles. 


RULER OF ELEVENTH HOUSE IN SEVENTH 


These people are attractive to the opposite sex and have strong sensual 
desires. There are mutual gains made by such relationships, especially involving 
success in overseas business. 


RULER OF ELEVENTH HOUSE IN EIGHTH 


An unfortunate placement whereby subjects tend to suffer material losses, 
lack of friends or mate and are generally shortlived. 


RULER OF ELEVENTH HOUSE IN NINTH 


This is an excellent placement. Subjects are generous, religious and may be 
involved with charitable organizations. They have many friends, pleasures and 
opulences. 


109 


RULER OF ELEVENTH HOUSE IN TENTH 


These are influential and humanitarian people who are successful in 
undertakings. 


RULER OF ELEVENTH HOUSE IN ELEVENTH 


This is another good placement resulting in easy money and the capacity to 
attain opulence, friendships and enjoyments in life. However, subjects should 
strive towards some spiritual progress while enjoying the material side. 


RULER OF ELEVENTH HOUSE IN TWELFTH 


Subjects may endure many material losses. They may also lose thei 
marriage partner, friends and unhealthy activities may shorten their own life span 
However there will, more than likely, be spiritual progress. 


110 


RULER OF THE TWELFTH HOUSE 


RULER OF TWELFTH HOUSE IN FIRST 


Not a strong placement as subjects tend to be of weak physical constitution 
with unusual habits. However they may also be spiritually inclined and make 
progress in this area. 


RULER OF TWELFTH HOUSE IN SECOND 


These are generous and compassionate people who may be religious or 
philosophical. Physically they have weak vision. 


RULER OF TWELFTH HOUSE IN THIRD 


The influence of this placement causes problems for those who are ruled by 
it. Subjects tend to act with ill intent toward other people and their family, causing 
them to break these bonds. 


RULER OF TWELFTH HOUSE IN FOURTH 


This is another placement in which to exercise caution. Subjects have a 
tendency to be restless, unfaithful and generally anti-social. They tend to concentrate 
on material possessions, rather than spiritual and karmic results. 


RULER OF TWELFTH HOUSE IN FIFTH 


A good placement for religious education and development but may be 
unsuccessful in business. Subjects may suffer losses in the area of children and feel, 
at times, unfulfilled in general. 


RULER OF TWELFTH HOUSE IN SIXTH 


These are good-looking generous people who may spend time overseas. They 
may have legal problems at times and suffer other difficulties through actions of 
the spouse. 


RULER OF TWELFTH HOUSE IN SEVENTH 


Although these people are spiritually inclined, they have poor discretionary 
powers and may, at times, be bothered by people who would be better avoided. 
There is enjoyment from considerable travel. 


RULER OF TWELFTH HOUSE IN EIGHTH 


A good situation giving rise to a generous and upright person, religious and 
philosophical in attitude and respected due to the magnanimous treatment of 
those less fortunate. There should be spiritual advancement as a result, if the 
opportunities are used. 


111 


RULER OF TWELFTH HOUSE IN NINTH 

A placement with some difficulties in that the father is not helpful. Subjects 
may be perceived as being arrogant, causing difficulties with those in authority. 
Lack of self discipline is also a tendency. 


RULER OF TWELFTH HOUSE IN TENTH 


Although this position causes material losses and lack of successes in the 
career these are philosophical people who can take things in their stride. They are 
particularly effective in supportive capacities and should concentrate on this role. 


RULER OF TWELFTH HOUSE IN ELEVENTH 


These people are excitable, highly-strung and very sexually oriented, expending 
much energy and money in that direction. They should guard against such 
energy-draining influences. 


RULER OF TWELFTH HOUSE IN TWELFTH 


A wonderful placement that indicates a kind and religious person who 
spends money wisely and enjoys travel to far-away places. 


112 


INTERPRETATION OF THE CHART AND 
PREDICTING THE FUTURE 


To understand what events may occur, as well as other influences on emotions, 
intelligence, actions, etc. we look at various factors. There are many different factors 
to take into account when interpreting the horoscope. There is a system of planetary 
periods in vedic astrology which allows prediction when the influences of particular 
planets will be dominant and what results may be expected during these times. We 
are always in the major planetary period of some planet. When a vedic astrologer 
casts a chart this information is also provided, with exact dates as to when the various 
planetary periods begin and end. During each major planetary period there is also 
a sub-period for each planet. 

The length of the major planetary periods are from six to twenty years, 
depending on which planet, as they all have different lengths to their major periods. 
The length of the major period is divided into nine (unequal parts) and each of 
these becomes a sub-period of one of the planets. For instance, the major period of 
Jupiter lasts sixteen years. In the first two years+ the major period is Jupiter and 
the sub-period is also Jupiter. Therefore we would call that period Jupiter-Jupiter. 
Then comes the Saturn sub-period for some time and that period would be called 
Jupiter-Saturn and so on, until all planets have ruled a sub-period through to the 
end of the sixteen year period. 

Having determined the major period, we look at the house ruled. In the case 
of Jupiter it is the ruler of both Sagittarius and Pisces. Therefore we look to see how 
well Jupiter is situated. This is by its placement in sign and house, which will give 
us the general quality of its influence and what areas of life are ruled by these 
houses. In our example horoscope, (see overleaf) Sagittarius is the ascendant, or 
rising sign. Therefore Jupiter rules the first house (the ascendant), as well as the 
fourth house, as it is the ruler of Sagittarius (first) and Pisces (fourth). Jupiter is a 
natural benefic of the highest order and also a temporary benefic, as Sagittarius is 
rising. This makes it an extremely powerful force for good in this horoscope. It is 
conjunct with Venus in the sixth house, giving some of the qualities of Venus in its 
own sign, Taurus, also by association. Jupiter is ruler of the first house in the sixth 
and also ruler of the fourth house in the sixth. In its sixth house position, Jupiter is 
receiving no other aspects from other planets, so considering house position, sign 
position, lordships (houses it rules) and the effects of being conjunct with Venus, 
we get a good understanding of how Jupiter is influencing this chart.* 


* See planetary aspects at the end of this chapter. 


Then we look to the "chandra lagna” chart, which is simply making the 
house where the Moon is the first house (in this case it would be Capricorn, 
presently the second house,) and judge the chart in the same way from that angle. 
Jupiter is a very benefic influence in our sample chart, both in the birth chart and 
the chandra lagna (placing the house with the Moon as the first house). There are 
influences concerning children, as Jupiter takes the fifth house from the Moon. 
There are many obstacles and some mental unrest, judging from its position in the 


113 


birth chart, but also great strength to overcome any difficulties in life. We must 
consider that Jupiter's nature here is powerful to do good and we must also look to 
the categories of life Jupiter rules, regardless of its placement in the chart. 

It aspects the second house (accumulation of money, experiences in family 
life, speech, diet, etc.) and the tenth house {career, status, etc.), so during the Jupiter 
major period there will be a rise in status, accumulation of funds, a chance to speak 
publicly and a good diet. As the sixth house represents travel, foreign countries, 
enemies, service, etc. there will be success in foreign places, quite a bit of travelling 
internationally, a chance to serve God and fellow man and no enemies will succeed 
against him. 

Now looking to the "navamsa" chart, we see that Jupiter is in the fourth 
house conjunct Venus and Mars in Leo (see sample chart). This position must be 
considered in the same way as we did in the birth chart and chandra lagna according 
to house and sign position, rulership (in this case Jupiter rules the eighth and 
eleventh houses), aspects (only aspected by Rahu in Aries from its twelfth house 
position) and gain an understanding of its influences from that angle. 

There are sixteen subdivisional charts that may be used to gain an under- 
standing of more subtle influences, although they are extremely difficult to under- 
stand, especially for the novice. The most important are the navamsa and the chandra 
lagna, already mentioned above. Shown in the navamsa are the marital affairs of 
this lifetime and, more importantly, it can show the "condition" of the soul in its 
passing from birth to birth. This is something which takes much experience, as 
well as spiritual progress in the astrologer's life, to properly understand. 

Remember that in judging the overall significance or strength of the whole 
horoscope we first judge the strength of the most important and significant ascendant 
sign, the Moon and the ninth house which are factors. The most auspicious houses 
in the chart are the first, fourth, seventh and tenth, called "angles", "kendras" or 
"quadrants" and the "trines", which are the first, fifth, and ninth houses. It is best 
to have benefics situated in these most important houses. 

The sixth, eighth, and twelfth houses are considered malefic houses and it's 
actually good to have malefic planets here, rather than in "angles" or "trines”, 
where they can cause more problems. 

Finally there are also different "yogas", or combinations of planets, that suggest 
different levels and varieties of enjoyment, or suffering. 1 am not going into detail 
in this introductory book on all of these,but they are extremely important in evaluation 
of a chart, so much so, that good yogas can nullify negative implications in the 
chart and bad yogas can nullify positive ones. It is important to learn these yogas 
to enable you to recognize them, when evaluating a horoscope. The most impor- 
tant yoga for power and influence is known as a "raja-yoga". Raja means king and 
yoga means combination, so this is a "kingly combination", capable of bestowing 
great wealth, enjoyment, career potential, etc., depending on the house the raja- 
yoga occurs in. It is caused by the ruler (lord) of an "angle" and the ruler of a 
"trine” combining influences in some way. This could be either by being conjunct 
or both aspecting a particular house. 


There are other important yogas:- 
A/ Examples of benefic yogas; 
"Shubhakartari -yoga" which occurs if benefic planets surround a planet 


114 


or a house, increasing the potency or categories respectively, in a 
positive way. 

"Dhurdhura" yoga results when benefics surround the Moon. 
"Obhayachari-yoga" results when benefics surround the Sun. 
“Hamsa-yoga” a great yoga for enjoying life in many ways, results 
when Jupiter is in its own sign, or exalted in an "angle". 
“Malavya-yoga” is similar, occurring when Venus is in its own sign, or 
exalted in an "angle". 


“Bhadra-yoga” occurs when Mercury is in its own or exaltation sign in 
an angle, indicating great intellect and communicative abilities. 


“Ruchaka-yoga” occurs when Mars is in its own or exaltation sign in an 
angle giving great energy, leadership ability and success in areas of life 
ruled by Mars. 


"Sasi-yoga"” occurs when Saturn is in its own or exaltation sign in an 
angle allowing a long life span and a person to become extremely influential 
over others. 


B/ Examples of malefic yogas; 


“Papakarti-yoga” occurs if malefic planets surround a planet or a house, 
afflicting it and decreasing its effect. Having the rulers of the first, fifth, 
ninth and tenth houses in the sixth, eighth or twelfth houses causes 
malefic results also. 


“Kemadruma-yoga” occurs when no planets are on either side of the 
Moon or no benefic planets aspecting it. The result is, unfortunately, a 
lonely life. 


“Kalasarpa-yoga” results when all the planets are situated in between 
Rahu and Ketu. This indicates suffering - possibly as a result of a curse 
in the previous life, or simply misfortune. 


"Sakata-yoga” occurs when the Moon is in the sixth, eighth or twelfth 
house from Jupiter. It generally causes disparity in life. Sometimes the 
native will have much more material facility than is necessary and at 
other times feel bereft of good luck. 


C/ A yoga called "mutual reception or "Parivarthana-yoga" occurs when 
two planets are situated in each other's signs. If Mars was in Virgo and 
Mercury in Aries, this would be an example of this yoga, as Mercury 
owns Virgo, where Mars is situated and Mars owns Aries, where 
Mercury is situated. This strengthens and enhances the energies of the 
two planets involved. To understand if this is positive or negative, we 
need to consider all factors like the natural and temporary nature of the 
planets involved, the houses they are in, aspects they receive, etc. 


One other difficulty in planetary positions is called "combustion". This is 
when a planet is too close to the Sun. This results in its energies being "burned 


115 


up", so to speak, rendering it weak or too impotent to give beneficial results. There 
are exact degrees for each planet being in "combustion" but a general "rule of 
thumb" is that if a planet is within five degrees of the sun, it becomes combust. 
Mercury and Venus are both normally close to the Sun, so would be less affected. 

This list of yogas is by no means complete. I would direct readers to a book 
called "Three Hundred Important Combinations" by B.V. Raman for information 
on yogas and their influences. 

With all of these various influences combined, we can then make predictions 
during the major period. We then look to the minor period, and whatever influ- 
ences connected with the planet ruling the sub-period wilt combine with the influ- 
ences of the planet ruling the major period. (See sample). 

Transits of planets through the stars and signs also has an effect on our daily 
lives. According to the birth chart, the influences will vary. Your astrologer should 
also give this information when doing your horoscope. In the interest of keeping 
this book simple, so more people will be inclined to read it, as well as understand 
it, Iam not giving specific information on how to calculate the planetary transits. 

Thus, to predict the future, all the various influences combined in the chart 
lead to conclusions. It is an incredibly accurate science but it takes a learned 
astrologer with experience, as well as good powers of intuition, to interpret and 
predict correctly. However, if a particular result reoccurs through different influ- 
ences in the chart, then you can assume it is conclusive. 


As with all things, the more you practice interpreting charts, as well as 
increasing your knowledge through study, the more adept you will become in this 
great science. If you master the principles in this book, understanding them thoroughly, 
you will find an advanced study of books from India more useful as, generally they are 
written for those that already have some knowledge and experience with vedic 
astrology. 

To give some useful generalizations on different categories of life look to the 
strength (or weakness) of- 


Sun and the first house to determine a person's character; 

Jupiter and the second house for an ability to save or accumulate money 
and/or opulence; 

Mars and the third house for determination of talents; 

Moon and fourth house for affairs relating to your mother; 

Venus and the fourth house to determine affairs relating to the home, 
automobiles, etc; 

Jupiter and the fifth house for affairs to do with children; 

Sun, first, and sixth houses to judge health; 

Jupiter and the sixth house for looking at legal problems (or the lack of); 
Venus and the seventh house for marriage or love life; 

Mercury and the seventh for business affairs; 

Saturn and the eighth for duration of life; 

Jupiter, Venus, Moon, Mercury and the ninth house for spiritual inclinations; 
Saturn, Mars, Mercury, and the tenth house for career; 

Jupiter, Venus, and the eleventh house for gains of all types; 

Twelfth house for an indication of future birth. 


NN 


116 


Having your horoscope done will, hopefully, instill a desire to perform 
positive actions to, not only reduce bad karma in this lifetime, but to create a better 
future. The knowledge to shape our destinies positively, both materially and 
spiritually, is something each and every one of us should aspire to obtain. In this 
way we can become the masters of our own destinies by performing positive 
actions in full knowledge of the results. 


117 


PLANETARY ASPECTS 


Planets influence specific houses according to their position. They cast partial 
and full aspects but we are only going to be concerned with the full aspects here. 
Most astrologers only consider the full aspects to be of paramount importance in 
evaluation, anyway. 

The aspects are considered to be cast a certain number of houses ahead 
of it, counting the house that the planet resides in as the first. The aspects are cast 
in a forward (ahead) direction only, never backwards. The aspects for each planet 
are: 


SUNG aie ae seventh house ahead 

MOON.....0000....0000.. seventh house ahead 

MARS... fourth, seventh and eighth houses ahead 
MERCURY............. seventh house ahead 

JUPITER ....0.0000202... fifth, seventh, and ninth houses ahead 
VENUS.....0..00...0000. seventh house ahead 

SATURN ................. third, seventh, and tenth houses ahead 
RAHU..... ce, fifth, seventh, and ninth houses ahead 
REPU isos dase ceoes boas fifth, seventh, and ninth houses ahead 


"Aspect" means the planet casts an influence according to its natural nature, 
temporary nature, sign and house position, association with other planets, etc. 
Therefore, in deciding if an aspect is positive or negative, as well as what traits it 
carries with it, it is necessary to carefully study the position and influences 
surrounding the aspecting planet. 

Aspects are extremely important and must be considered in the interpretation 
of the chart. They are such powerful factors that "raja yoga” can be made by mutual 
aspects on a particular house by the rulers of a "quadrant" (first, fourth, seventh 
and tenth houses) and a "trine” (first, fifth, and ninth houses). 


MAIN POINTS FROM PART TWO 


1/_ There are nine planets, representing various energies in life. They influence 
the horoscope for better or worse, depending on various factors, including 
the aspect they cast on the twelve houses. 


2/ The twelve signs of the zodiac give a general idea of the qualities of those 
born within their influence. 


3/. The twelve houses denote areas of life with which people will be concerned. 
The signs are placed within them in strict natural order following the rising 
sign which is placed in the first house. 


4/ The rising sign is most important in relation to the personality ofthose born 
under its influence. 


5/ Planets in the signs and houses exert powerful influences. A description of 
signs ruled, and positions gives details of the influences felt. 


6/ The "Nakshtra" or "star" chart, gives more precise detail of specific traits 
within the signs. 


119 


oT 


8/ 


9/ 


120 


Planets also have "temporary" influences, dependant upon the rising sign. 
Descriptions of these influences were listed. 


Lordship of signs is also very important for interpretation of traits their influences 
produce. 


Having listed all the relevant categories a chart can be interpreted by those 
so trained. For the novice conclusions can only be safely made if the same 
outcomes/traits are shown from each of the influences. An example horo- 
scope is included and used to work through as an interpretation. 


PART THREE 


REMEDIAL MEASURES, 
SUCCESSFUL PROGRESS 
AND 
CONCLUSION 


121 


REMEDIAL MEASURES IN ASTROLOGY 


Once an astrologer has done the horoscope it is their job to help you to 
balance influences within it to achieve greater harmony, success and satisfaction in 
all areas of life. Remember that this science should be used practically in order to 
help you deal with all facets of life presently and in the future. It should not just be 
a mystical curiosity with no practical utility. There are different remedial measures 
to be offered through vedic astrology. 


AUSTERITIES 


In theory there are particular austerities that one can perform to alleviate the 
effects of negative karma and there are vedic sacrifices that can also be performed 
to this end. These two means are extremely difficult to enact in this day and age, as 
severe austerities and penances are almost impossible for most of us and the vedic 
sacrifices require priests (brahmans), expert in chanting the vedic mantras, to gain 
the desired result. There are almost no brahmans today expert in this science that 
can be engaged for this purpose and, especially in the West, they are not to be 
found. Therefore these two remedial measures are difficult at best. 


CHARITY 


Another remedial measure is the act of giving, to worthy recipients. An 
expert astrologer, in knowledge of correct spiritual principles in this regard, can 
give recommendations for this. Every action has a reaction in some way, shape or 
form. To give in charity to worthy recipients, such as God conscious persons 
engaged in true spiritual welfare work, gives beneficial results to a fantastic 
degree. Giving to help those less fortunate in foodstuffs, shelter, medical care, etc. 
will also bring positive reactions. By the same token, giving to unworthy causes 
brings no positive reaction and may implicate you in the negative actions 
performed, due to the facility given by the act of, so-called, charity. A simple example 
is that if you give a homeless person liquor, or money that will be used to purchase 
liquor, no good reaction will be gained by the giving of such charity. If you give 
food to a hungry person, help them with medical treatment, etc., this is pious and 
will bring a positive reaction. 


MANTRAS 


These can be chanted to propitiate ill effects caused by weak or malefic planets. 
I will not list them all here but my feeling is that the greatest benefit can be gained 
by chanting mantras for purely spiritual benefit and that time is better utilized in 
this manner. Planetary mantras will help certain areas of life in regards to only this 
one birth. The mantras of “Vishnu Sahastranam" (the thousand names of Vishnu) 
can help in attaining higher levels of knowledge and spiritual consciousness which 
is not finished at the time of death, or transference of the soul from the present 
body. 

There are many different mantras, such as "Om Namo Shivaya" (to Shiva), 
"Om Shanti Shanti Shanti" (a transcendental mantra for bringing about peace) and 
“Aum” (Omkara, the transcendental vibration). Through personal practice and 


122 


experience, as well as through study and instruction, my feeling and realization is 
that the mantra given as the means for self realization in this age by Sri Chaitanya 
Mahaprabhu, in India 500 years ago, gives the most obvious results. This mantra, 
chanted throughout India, has been introduced in the West in the last few decades. 
It is the Hare Krishna maha-mantra. (Maha means "great", in a spiritual sense.) It 
is chanted as; "Hare Krishna Hare Krishna Krishna Krishna Hare Hare Hare Rama 
Hare Rama Rama Rama Hare Hare". 

Some vedic mantras need absolute perfection in the pronunciation and meter 
of the chanting, requiring great expertise on the part of the practitioner, yet this 
Hare Krishna maha-mantra is said to be so powerful (invoking the original names 
of the supreme personality of Godhead) that, even chanted incorrectly,the benefit 
will be realized. 

The timeless wisdom delineating the nature of matter and spirit and what 
activities are necessary for spiritual realization, are perfectly presented in 
“Bhagavad-Gita As It 1s”, by His Divine Grace A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 
Prabhupada. This version of the great epic is accepted by scholars to be the only 
authorized translation in English available here in the West. It has also been 
translated into many other languages. Bhaktivedanta Swami presented such a perfect 
and true rendition of this great literary work that it is used as a text in universities 
throughout the world in Sanskrit, philosophy and religion departments. I would 
urge anyone unfamiliar with his work to obtain a copy, which should be available 
in any large bookstore. 

In addition to mantras, there are yantras, or planetary symbols, that may be 
used to propitiate the negative effects of certain planets in the horoscope. There are 
two types, geometric and mathematical. Geometric yantras are specific designs 
that require someone with the talent to reproduce them properly on paper board, 
or on copper. Mathematical yantras are based on mathematical configurations of 
numbers which also have potency to propitiate negative effects of stellar 
influences. 

Finally there is gemstone therapy, which, although utilized since ancient 
times to the present day in India and much of the East, is now gaining popularity 
and interest in the West. As it is extremely powerful and is of great interest. I will 
fully explain its use. 


GEMSTONE THERAPY 


I was brought up in the gemstone business from a young age and it was ona 
trip to India as a teenager that 1 was taught the astrological usage of gems, leading 
me to further study of this great and holy science of astrology. 

Gem therapy, or planetary gemology, dates back to ancient Indian, Greek, 
Egyptian and Jewish cultures. Men and women would wear gems for the potencies 
imparted, not for their monetary value. Kings and queens would wear gemstones 
in their crowns and elsewhere on the body as a means of expanding their influence 
throughout the kingdom. Of course, the gems royalty wore were extremely large 
and of the highest quality to have such effects but gems may be utilized by the 
populace at large for beneficial effects in life. 

The Vedic scriptures of ancient India contain the most complete descriptions 
and scientific knowledge of gemstones. They give specific details about various 


123 


gems’ potencies as well as prescriptions for their proper medical and astrological 
usage. In ancient cultures gems became the basis for directing the subtle forces of 
nature. The properties of gems have also been recognized in modern technology, as 
in quartz crystals in time pieces and diamonds in lasers and supercomputers. As a 
matter of fact over a billion people in the world today have taken advantage of 
planetary gemology to enhance their lives physically, mentally and spiritually. 
Only in the West does this seem to be "New Age". In Eastern countries it has been 
known for thousands of years, dating back to earliest recorded times. 

Planetary gemology is based on the ancient system of sidereal astrology, the 
extremely accurate and enlightening system utilizing fixed positions of stars and 
constellations already described earlier in this book. This system is very precise in 
determining strengths, weaknesses and destiny. The positions of the planets, at the 
time of our birth, reflect the karma that we bring with us into this life from our past 
actions and experiences. They represent the multitude of energies in the universe, each 
planet controlling a different form of cosmic energy which is transmitted through- 
out the solar system. These transmissions of energy are responsible for 
formations of life on this planet, including our bodies and minds. 

The orbiting planets receive and give specific wave lengths of energy, which 
maintain the order of the solar system. These energies are transmitted as light. 
Another name for astrology is "Jyotish", or the "science of light". There are seven 
basic cosmic rays emanated by the seven major planets, Sun, Moon, Mars, Mercury, 
Jupiter, Venus, and Saturn. The signs of the zodiac and the different houses in the 
astrological horoscope represent the different fields that the planetary energies 
react and move within, thereby giving us information of how these energies will let 
us "read" what our life experiences will be in this incarnation. We are able to 
understand the quality of this biTth in the same way as the nature of a tree can be 
read from the seed it is born from. This karma is what will determine how our lives 
will manifest themselves. The system of remedial measures in vedic astrology 
allows you to increase these energies vibrated from certain planets to balance and 
bring harmony. The two most practical utilize sound vibration, as in the chanting 
of mantras and increasing the vibrations of light, which is the basis for gemstone 
therapy. 

Different gemstones, transmitters of electromagnetic energy, receive their 
potencies from the cosmic energies of different planets, thereby having different 
effects on the wearer. They do this by absorption and reflection of light frequencies. 
The electromagnetic energy emanating from the gemstone reacts with the similar 
energy of the body to produce certain effects. Which gemstones should be used 
must be determined through careful analysis of the astrological horoscope. The 
"New Age" practice of indiscriminately placing gemstone crystals all over the 
body can be extremely dangerous if the practitioner is not well-versed in this 
science. Gem crystals are very powerful and, as easily as they can positively 
enforce electromagnetic fields of the body, they can disrupt them giving the opposite 
effect. This can cause physical and mental debilities, so exercise extreme caution. 
Used incorrectly there can be disturbances on a subtle, astral level, as well as a 
physical one. Used correctly they can give a lift and greater potency in our lives in 
many ways, physically, mentally and spiritually. 

Once you have had a careful analysis of your horoscope, by a vedic 
astrologer, the correct stone may then be set in a ring, or pendant, so that the stone 


124 


comes into contact with the skin. This allows the gems to best transmit these 
frequencies of light or electromagnetic energy to the cells in our bodies. This is 
done through ions. The reason the fingers are the best place to wear gems is the 
location of many nerve centres there. 1 have seen amazing results in people's lives 
through gemstone therapy. 

However, a word of caution, in order to be effective, gems must be natural 
(not synthetic) and untreated by excessive heat or irradiation to improve their 
appearance. This is often done in the jewellry trade for commercial purposes. This 
is not deceptive, unless a jeweller does not disclose the fact that the gem has been 
enhanced. Therefore, you must be certain that the source for your purchase has 
untreated gems. 1 have had the unenviable task, at times, of explaining to a client 
that, although the gem which they purchased is beautiful, as well as costly, it has 
no effect on the planetary energies, nor on their person, except as a form of colour 
therapy alone. (This science of colour therapy was derived from the ancient science 
of gemstone therapy) It is not necessary to spend a fortune to obtain a gem that 
will give one the desired effects and the wonderful thing about utilizing the potency 
of gemstones is that it is a one-time cost. ]ts potency will never diminish and you 
have the gem for a lifetime. 


GEMSTONES FOR EACH PLANET 
SUN: RUBY (SUBSTITUTE IS RED GARNET) 
MOON: PEARL (SUBSTITUTE IS MOONSTONE) 
MARS: — RED CORAL (SUBSTITUTE JS RED JASPER) 
MERCURY: EMERALD OR GREEN JADE (SUBSTITUTE 1$ PERIDOT) 
JUPITER: | YELLOW SAPPHIRE 
(SUBSTITUTE ] S YELLOW TOPAZ OR CITRINE) 
VENUS: DIAMOND (SUBSTITUTE IS TURQUOISE) 


SATURN: BLUE SAPPHIRE 


(SUBSTITUTE IS AMETHYST OR LAPIS LAZULI) 
Note: The primary gemstones for all the planets, except Mars, should weigh at 
least 2 carats. For Mars, the red coral should weigh 8 carats, as should the 
substitute red jasper. The substitute gemstones should weigh at least 5 carats to 
have proper potency. 


Further information on planetary gemology, and astrological uses of gems 
may be found in my book, "Gemstone Therapy for the Modern Age”, which also 
describes the origin and usefulness of the original astrological birthstone system. It 
should be noted that the birthstone system in use today in the West is a bogus system, 
having no use other than for jewellers to sell specific gemstones to their customers. 
It was created in about 1917 by several jewellry organizations in the United States. 


125 


cosine TOTO TOT? [| 


atte pee 


WESTERN April 20 
fo 


TROPICAL 


: J 


EASTERN 
or 
SIDEREAL 


Red Coral | Diamond 


White 
Topaz 


Jasper 


or 


Bloodstone | Turquoise 


June 14 
la 
July 15 


Emerald Ruby 


Green | Red 
Jade Tourmaline 


or Moonstone or 


Peridot Bloodstone 


Nov. 22 


fo 


Red Coral 


Yellow 
Sapphire 


Diamond 


White 
Topaz 


Yellow 
Topaz 


Josper 


ar ar or 


Turquoise | 


March 20 


= 


Blue 
Sapphire 


Different dates ore shown for the Western or Tropical system of Astrology, ond the Eastern or Sidereal system of Astrology. The reason is that the Western is based on the 


* 


ecliptic, or Earth’s orbit oround the sun 


, ond the Eastern is based 00 fixed stars ond constellations of Slors outside this solar system, which were known to be in the exoct 


SON position thousands of years ago os they are today. We believe the Eastern system to be more accurate, but have provided both as reference. 


"which changes slightly year to year 


{PPLANETARY JEWEL DESIGNS 


© 1992 by Howard Backman. All Rights Reserved. 


‘at 


IN 
= 


THE SEVEN SECRETS OF SUCCESSFUL 
PROGRESS 


These seven basic mental disciplines will help anyone to motivate themselves 
to attaining their maximum potentials in Life. It is not enough that we have our 
charts done to understand our natural capabilities for success, as well as talents, in 
different areas. We must then discipline ourselves to develop the character and 
perseverance to fulfil our hopes and dreams. These disciplines or, once mastered, 
habits will help anyone to attain success to the maximum of their potential. 

The first principle is POSITIVE THINKING. Negativity achieves nothing. We 
have to be positive and be willing to act properly, according to the dictates of our 
intelligence. Don't give in to being whimsical about your progress in life, whatever 
you are trying to accomplish. Look at difficulties as hurdles to be jumped on the 
way to your ultimate success. So-called failures should be seen as bringing success 
that much closer. Look at incompleteness as the "glass is always half-full", rather 
than the negative concept of the "glass being half-empty”. People that adopt and 
maintain a positive attitude toward life not only have the greatest successes but 
obtain the greatest satisfaction from life in general. Try it and you'll see how much 
better you feel! 

The second principle for success is to SET OUT YOUR GOALS IN LIFE. One 
of the most worthy disciplines is to take a pen and paper and write down the 
things you wish to accomplish in the coming year. Just list them, that's all. Then 
make a list of the things you'd like to accomplish in the next two years. Then list 
what goals you'd like to attain in the next three years, five years, ten years, and 
twenty years. Once you've done this, take a moment to think about what you've 
written and the goals which you've set down on paper. You'll find that there are 
many things you'd like to accomplish in life, Where do you see yourself next year, 
the year after, or in ten or twenty years? 

Having this list will enable you to make intelligent plans to accomplish your 
aspirations in life. It is a fact that all successful people do this!! Once you have set 
out and defined the objectives you can begin to work toward their fulfilment, 
always keeping the goal in mind, Don't be someone that "can't see the forest for 
the trees". Keep the final objectives close to mind and heart and you will be able to 
muster the attitude, courage and perseverance to keep going until you fully realize 
your objective. Those that quit in mid-stream have forgotten the final objective, 
looking only at small pieces that may be causing temporary difficulty. Always 
remember the goal and you will get there eventually. 

The third principle is TIME MANAGEMENT. Having defined the actions 
necessary to achieve the goal, you must then put them in the proper order. We are 
logical beings and if you take the time to plan, things will go much more smoothly 
and objectives will be reached, step by step. There are always so many small 
objectives within the big picture and, although we must always keep the total 
picture and ultimate goal in mind, we must also know which actions to perform 
and in what order, to build the consequence we desire from our work. 

Be thorough in your evaluation of a situation and decide what little things 
must be done to accomplish the objective. Then start from the beginning. Do things 
step by step, not overlooking anything necessary to build yourself a strong founda- 


127 


tion. A house is only as strong as its foundation so do things whereby each 
succeeding task will take you steadily toward the accomplishment of your objectives. 
"First things first" is a term used by others for this basic principle which I term 
"time management”. 

The fourth principle is CONSIDERATION, looking at each situation in which 
you deal with other people thoroughly and fairly. You must not only fulfil your 
own needs and objectives, but satisfy those of the people you intend to work with, 
or that may work for you. Everyone should be a winner, not someone a winner 
and someone a loser. To be a leader requires that you consider everyone and not 
selfishly consider only your own desires and needs. Find a way of arranging things 
so that everyone is felt to be of consequence. Good communication skills are a 
must!! Communication is 90% of everything we do. "No man is anisland” is a very 
fitting saying in this regard. We need to be able to work with others and, in so 
doing, create a situation where we further ourselves toward the attainment of our 
objectives and present things so that others also feel that they are making positive 
gains toward their own objectives. 


The fifth principle is LEARNING TO LISTEN. If you become a good listener, 
then you will understand what another is looking for and can come up with solutions 
to satisfy your mutual objectives. If you listen to others, really trying to understand 
them, (not thinking of what you are going to say next, while they're speaking) you 
will become well-liked and appreciated as a good manager. As a result, others will 
listen to you! 

We ali have basic similarities, yet there are also so many differences, for we 
are individuals. We have different karma, destinies and different ways of looking 
at things according to our perceptions of the world. This is beyond dispute. If we 
listen to others, considering what they have to say and their feelings, our powers of 
communication will be enhanced. When someone sees that you truly care enough 
to listen to them when they speak, they will not only listen to your viewpoint but 
be much more enthusiastic about your possible solution. Everyone wants to feel 
appreciated and if you empathise with others, then you will be listened to and be 
able to also get your own points across in a positive manner. 

Naturally following, the sixth principle is COOPERATION, learning to co- 
operate with others and to instill in them the confidence to cooperate with you. 
Once you have utilized the principle of listening, you must learn how to put words 
into action. The actions must be cooperative so everyone involved feels that their 
actions are important to the achievement of the final objective. It doesn't matter 
what you're trying to do. There must be cooperation between all parties for results 
to be fully attained. Don't just listen to others (the fifth principle), yet fail to 
incorporate their feelings and ideas into the master plan. Give credit where credit 
is due. Many employees feel used and abused when their employers put across 
their ideas for something, yet fail to credit them with the work. Remember that 
everyone deserves respect and recognition for the good work that they do. Make a 
fully cooperative effort with those you work with and you will see enthusiasm and 
cooperation being reflected. 

The seventh principle is to KEEP A BALANCE in life. One of my main 
platforms for complete, holistic and healthy life is maintaining good physical, mental 
and spiritual health, at all times. We cannot put too much effort into one without 
the other factors of our being suffering. Set yourself out a program for living a 


128 


disciplined life for accomplishing all three of these objectives. Make a time for your 
spiritual meditation, prayer, worship or reflection. Keep that time sacred, for the 
most part, allowing only a real emergency to infringe upon it. We are not these 
bodies and at the time of death the only thing that goes with us is our spiritual 
advancement. In your next birth you will once again pick up from the point at 
which you left off at death in this lifetime. Everything else you build in life is 
finished- your material knowledge and accomplishments, your possessions and 
your familial relationships, so this effort is all-jmportant for any sane person. 

You must set aside the time to eat properly, to get adequate rest and to do 
some physical exercise. It's absolutely necessary if you wish to have a body that 
serves you well, even in old-age. It doesn't matter whether you exercise in the 
morning or evening, four days a week or seven days a week. We have different 
bodies that take different amounts of exercise to stay healthy and we have different 
likes and dislikes as to the activity performed for physical exercise. Set yourself a 
discipline in this regard and stick to it. 

Then there is the mental and emotional health. You won't have lasting or 
fulfiling relationships with others, nor will you feel happiness or satisfaction, 
unless you are of good mental health. Develop positive character traits and don't 
give in to lower urges that lead to negativity. Show compassion and empathy 
toward others. Be an honest and straightforward person as much as possible. Don't 
put work ahead of everything so that your health suffers, or your spiritual side 
remains undeveloped. Many people in the West do this to the exclusion of all else. 
The results are always regrettable. Neglecting family causes its break-up. 
Neglecting health causes physical break-down. Not building good principles and 
character of the heart can lead to wrongful actions, which bring on distress and 
poor emotional development can also lead to mental nervous breakdowns. 
Remember to always rejuvenate yourself in these ways and you will maintain the 
ability to act for your own benefit, as well as others, throughout your life. 

Mastering these seven principles takes care and dedication but doing so will 
make you someone that perseveres, achieves, is respected and, most importantly, is 
a contented, satisfied and happy individual. Desire success, think success, act 
utilizing these principles and you will be successful to the limits of your full potential. 
Itis your birthright. 


129 


