An Introduction 


to 


JAIMINI ASTROLOGY 


G.V. Prabhakara Murthy 


FOREWORD 


Dr. Sagi Kamalakara Sharma, 

M.A. (Telugu, Sanskrit, Astrology, English & Philosophy) 
2-2-1133/5/6/1, Plot No. 204, 

Shivananda Livings, New 


Astrology is such an excellent subject which indicates many 
things through Planets, Signs and Bhavas. Among major five 
parts, ‘Hora’ plays a special role on human minds. In Hora 
Sastra, various methods are there to observe the future of the 
person. One among them is Jaimini. Jaimini approach is special 
than others. 


Jaimini sutras are very complicated and difficult to understand. 
Writer of this valuable book Sri G.V. Prabhakara Murthy 
introduces the Jaimini principles to the students who want to 
study this subject. Understanding and explaining Samskrita 
Slokas in Jaimini is somewhat problematic. For that purpose, 
Sri GV. Prabhakara Murthy given the gist of slokas which any 
one can understand easily. 


He has kept the order of the topics in such a way that a student 
can gradually build up the knowledge without any difficulty. He 
has dealt with the differences between Parashari system and 
Jaimini system, the importance of Jaimini system in the 
beginning of the book itself. 


The KATAPAYA identifications are given at the end of the book. 
If these are given in the beginning of the book, the student may 
get confused with it because there are no Samskrita slokas in 
the book and the student may not use this with proper 
understanding. 


Other topics like Karakamsha, Arudha, Upapada, Aspects, 
Argalas, different Lagnas and Chara dasa are dealt with very 
clearly. The best thing Sri G.V. Prabhakara Murthy has done is, 
he has taken the example horoscope of Mrs. Indira Gandhi for 
all workings. 


| cordially appreciate the effort of Sri G.V. Prabhakara Murthy 
who is teaching Astrology at Bharateeya Vidya Bhavan, 
Bangalore. He not only studied astrology, but has worked in 
different parts of it. Particularly he has studied but also worked 
and right now teaching Jaimini Principles. 


| expect many more works from Sri G.V. Prabhakara Murthy. 


Sarva Sampathprada SRIMATA bless Sri GV. Prabhakara 
Murthy and his Family with good health, wealth and prosperous 
useful life. 


Shubham Bhuyath.... 


Dr. Sagi Kamalakara Sharma 


INDEX 


PROLOGUE 


Introduction 

* — Origin 

* Comparison between Parasari & Jaimini 
+ Advantages of Jaimini 


marek’ 

Jaimini Karakas 

Nitya Karakas 
e@ Naisargika and additional karakatwas for Planets 
@ Characteristics of Atma-Karaka (of various planets) 
+ — Results from Atmakaraka 


Arudha 

@ Plotting of Arudhas 
Special rules for Kendras 
Chakras - Udaya, Prakriti, Vikriti, Pada(krama) 
& Graha Chakra 


Aspects & Argalas 

e@ Aspects between Rasis 
Categories of argalas 
Strength of Rasis 
Strength of Planets 


Fagnas 
Types of Lagnas 

* Hora Lagna 

+  Bhava Lagna 
Varnada Lagna 
Ghatika Lagna 


6. pysienat Charts 
Hora 
Drekkana 
Navamsa (Somanatha) 
Amsa Lagna 
Karakamsa Lagna 
@ Karakamsa Rasi 


7. Yogas 
* Yogada Planet 
@ Rajayogas 


* Kemadruma Yoga 


8. Dara Systems 
Types of Dasas - Phalitha & Ayur Dasas 
Chara Dasa 
1. Savya - Apasavya Rasis 
2. Dual lordship 
3. Dasa order and Dasa years with special rules 
4. Dasa-Year calculation for dual lordship rasis 
5. Anthar-Dasa periods in Maha Dasa and its order 


9. Interpretation of Rasi (Chara) Dasa 


10. Delineation 
Analysis of horoscope 
Timing of Events 


11. Longevity 
Life Span 
° Brahma 
e Rudra 
. Maheswara 
e Sthira Dasa 


12. Miscellaneous 
a. KA,TA,PA,YA 
b. Details of Adhyayas 
c. Commentaries on Jaimini Sutras 
d. Annexure 


EPILOGUE 


PROLOGUE 


While studying a subject like astrology, it is not only essential 
to know the language, grammar and the subject, but also the 
spirit of the author with which ithas been written. Itis more so, 
with the subject like Jaimini Upadesha Sutrani. 


There are 10 chapters in Brihath Parasara Hora Sara (BPHS) 
related to Jaimini methodology. Why should Jaimini pick up 
these 10 chapters only which are not in a serial order. Jaimini 
had achieved two purposes through it. The first - all the 
anomalies in BPHS have been avoided. The second - no riders 
are attached to any sutra. These sutras can be directly applied. 


When we go through Raja Yogadhyaya of BPHS carefully, it 
dawns that Jaimini sutras are supplementary to BPHS. The 
study of BPHS is not complete without the study of Jaimini 
sutras. In Rajayogadhyaya, Sage Parasara mentions that any 
of the combinations from Lagna, Lagnadhipathi, Atmakaraka, 
Karakamsa Lagna etc., are sufficient to provide Rajayoga. 


The beauty of Jaimini sutras lies in the fact that it has nowhere 
contradicted or denied any of the principles laid by Maharshi 
Parasara. Jaimini cannot be learnt without learning the 
principles of Parasara. Jaimini system is supplementary to 
Parasara system. 


A number of commentaries are available now. Many people 
have translated the sutras both into English as well as regional 
languages. Hence, there is a considerable difference in 
understanding the sutras. Elaborate explanation is given 
wherever different schools of thought are prevailing on the 
principles in the annexure. Some ofthe subjects like Argalas 
& Yogas are introduced. These concepts will be dealt in depth 
inthe advanced studies. . 


With a lot of advantages, why then Jaimini system has not 
gained popularity? To determine chara karakas, exact position 
(longitudes) of the planets is essential. Earlier only the persons 
familiar with graha-sputa were able to do it. Others, who 
depend on almanacs (panchanga) were biased towards 
Parasari system because by knowing planetary positions 


through nakshtra padas, they could erect Janma-Kundali and 
Navamsa-Kundalis easily. With the advent of computers and 
astrological software it is now easy to find the exact longitudes 
of planets. Other reason being that the earlier commentaries 
like Kalpalata, Jataka Sara Sangraha etc. were not available 
freely. Now, most of them are available. Hence, Jaimini system 
is popular now a days. 


This book is primarily meant for beginners. The topics are 
arranged in such a way to make the student to follow the 
subject easily. It also helps the faculty to teach the subject in a 
comprehensive mode. 


My interest in Jaimini was kindled, when Sri Dr. S. Krishna 
Kumar, president Bharathiya Jyothisha Samsthan(R), 
presented me Jataka Rajeeyam, a rare book on Jaimini system 
in Telugu, printed in 1933. Then | started collecting all the 
literature available on the subject. Sri Madhura Krishnamurthy 
Sastry was kind enough to provide me the manuscripts like 
Kalpalatha (by Somanatha); Neelakanta Vyakhya and others 
on Jaimini sutras. He was also kind enough to enlighten me on 
the subject and clarify my doubts whenever | approached him. 
| am very grateful to both ofthem. 


When | approached Dr. Sagi Kamalakara Sharma, MA. 
(Telugu, Sanskrit, Astrology, English & Philosophy),Head of 
the Department, Osmania University, Hyderabad went through 
my book and readily accepted to write foreword. My sincere 
thanks to him for his kind gesture. 


| am thankful to Sri C.B.R.K. Sharma, Hyderabad, Sri 
S.N.Tekur for their valuable suggestions and my colleagues at 
Bharathiya Vidya Bhavan for their support. 


| am also thankful Sri M. C. Rangarajan, Sri K.N. 
Balasubramanyam, Sri N.S. Jayaram and other students who 
have helped me in bringing outthis book. 


| thank Sri M.S. Hebbar for his beautiful design of the cover 
page and Sri S. Sanath Kumar, Ravee Screens who has taken 
keen interest in bringing outthis book, in time. 


Chapter 1 


Introduction 


ORIGIN: 


Parasara HORA SARA is the first authentic book on astrology 
written by the great Maharishi Parasara Transits is the only 
topic which does not find a place in this excellent book on 
Astrology. Jaimini system of astrology may be termed as a 
branch of Parasara system of astrology. 


Maharishi Veda Vyasa was the son as well as the disciple of 
Maharishi Parasara. Veda Vyasa segregated Vedas and put 
them into proper order. He had also extensively analysed 
Ashtadasa Puranas in his various works. 


Maharishi Veda Vyasa had four disciples. They were i) 
Vyshampayana ii) Paila iii) Jaimini and iv) Sumantha. Each one 
of them propagated one out of four Vedas. Maharshi Jaimini 
propagated Samaveda and also authored Jaimini Sutras, 
Jaimini Bharatha and Purva-Mimamsa. There are many 
references of Jaimini topics in Bruhat Parasara 'HORA SARA’. 


Jaimini has used sutras instead of slokas while writing the book 
popularly known as 'JAIMINI UPADESHA SUTRAS". Sutras are 
one of the wonders of Sanskrit language. It is shortest in form 
with largest meaning. Sutras are typical and direct to the point. 
A deep knowledge of Sanskrit is very essential to understand 
the true meaning of Sutras in proper perspective. Sometimes it 
could be possible to interpret altogether in a different meaning. 


Jaimini system has its own distinctive features and appears to 
be very accurate in timing of the events. It avoids elaborate 
mathematical calculations like shadbala or vimshopakabala. It 
uses minimum number of divisional charts and yogas. 


Jaimini has given us this wonderful branch of astrology 
developing certain aspects of Parasara system. The beauty of 
the system is it does not contradict any of the principles of 
Parasara system. In fact, it has depended on Parasara for 
calculating various lagnas and Rasi & Graha swaroopaadhyas. 


The teachings of Sage Parasara were carried forward by Sage 
Jaimini who took up certain topics from Parasara hora sara. 
The topics discussed by Maharishi Parasara in his Hora-Sara are 
listed below. 


Chapter - 06 Visesha Lagnadhyaya 
Chapter - 09 Rasi-Drishti Kathanadhyaya 
Chapter - 31 Padadhyaya 

Chapter - 32 Upa-padadhyaya 

Chapter - 33 Argaladhyaya 

Chapter - 34 Karakadhyaya 

Chapter - 35 Karakamsa-Padadhyaya 
Chapter - 41 Raja Yogadhyaya 

Chapter -48 Dasadhyaya 

0. Chapter - 52 Dasa-Phaladhyaya 


=O ON OaAPRWON 


Jaimini has deliberated the above topics in detail in his great 
work “Upadesha Sutraani". 


Another speciality of Jaimini system is that Maharshi Jaimini 
has not repeated what had been told earlier by sage Parasara, 
like Rasi-sheeladhyaya and Graha-sheeladhyaya and also 
advised, to use them freely, wherever necessary (Horadayah 
siddhah 1-1-35). 


Because ofthis lineage, MaharshiJaimini does not find the place 
in the list of 18 great teachers (Ashtadasa pravartakas). 


Comparison between Parasari and Jaimini: 


Even though the roots of the Jaimini Sutras lie in Parasari 
System, there are some marked differences in the approach 
by the Sage Jaimini. Some of them are- - 


This is in the form of Slokas This system has only Sutras. 


This system covers all aspects. This system has limited coverage. 
Muhurtha and Mundane matters 

are not covered. However, Horary 
has been covered (Arudha Ratna 
Siddhanjanam by Sri Siddanatha) 


Lagna, Arudha, upapada lagna, 
Karakamsas are the main 
considerations for analysis of the 
Horoscope. 


Lagna, Karakas, Dasa / bhukti are Arudha Padas and chara karakas 
considered for delineation are considered 


Karakas are elaborate [Naisargika, | Chara karakas are very important 
Sthira & Chara] 

Dasas are Nakshatra based 

Period of Dasa is fixed for each 
planet. The balance of dasa 
depends on the longitude of Moon 


Lagna is the focal point for 
analysis of Horoscope. 


Dasa periods are Rasi based 
Rasi Dasa period varies for each 
horoscope - from 1 year to 12 

years depending on the location 
of the planet (Lord of dasa rasi). 


Planetary strength is determined by 
Avastha of Planets and shadbala, 
vimsopaka bala etc. 

Bhava bala decided on shadbala, 
ashtaka varga etc. 


Direct assessment based on 
rasi Strength. 


Shadbala is not considered 
Basically there are four sources of 
strength. 


Number of Dasas - based on Udu 
dasa system. [32 Dasas] 


Rasi based Dasa systems are 
followed. 70 dasa systems are 
available according to some 
scholars 


Many Karakatwas of planets are Focus is on Chara karaka only 
considered 


Aspects between planets Aspect between Rasis 
Many Yogas [few thousands] Very few yogas. ! 
3 


Basically three Varga charts are 
used - D1, D9, D3 
No difference between Rasi and 
Bhava 
Distinct identity between Lagna & Stronger of Lagna & 7th house is 
7" house and are used independently] used for delineation in some cases 


Yogakarakatwa assigned to lords of | Yogakaraktwa assigned to planets 

trines & quadrants which associate with various 
lagnas-kevala, yogada etc. And 
combination of chara karakas like 
Ak& Pk 


There is no dual lordship for any of Dual lordship for Scorpio and 
the signs. Aquarius is considered in few dasa 
systems. 


Trines are auspicious always. Trines need not be auspicious 
always. 


Kemadruma yoga is both benefic and) Kemadruma Yoga is always 

malefic. There are cancellation malific. There is no cancellation of 

combinations for this yoga. yoga. The combinations for 
kemadruma yoga are different. 


Advantages of Jaimini: 


There are many advantages in Jaimini system. 
1. Error in birth time does notmake much difference. 


2. Planets in rasi-sandhi are not considered weak. In 
fact they become more powerful if their placement 
in a rasi has higher longitude. 


3. Ayanamsa does not make much difference. Only 
Planets in rasi sandhis may shift rasis when different 
ayanamshas are used. 


4. Dasas are rasi based. Dasa system is not based on 
Nakshatras. 


Dasa duration at birth does not get affected 
whatever be the time of birth or janma nakshatra. 


Dispositors do notmake any difference. 
Yogakarakas are well defined. 


Linkage between Bhavas (influence of Bhavas 
among themselves) is easily found out through 
Arudhas. 


No mathematical calculations like shadbala. 
Assessment of the strength of planets is made very 
simple. 


‘ 


Chapter 2 


Karakas 


There are two types of karakas in Jaimini. One is Chara (anitya) 
karakas and another one is nitya karakas. 


Chara karakas : The uniqueness of Jaimini is the introduction 
of Chara karakas. There are 7 Chara karakas and they are 
determined based on the planets’ longitudes in a rasi. Hence, 
they are not fixed like in Parasara system and vary from 
horoscope to horoscope. This is reason for calling them as 
chara karakas, as they vary from horoscope to horoscope. Any 
planet can acquire any karakatwa, depending on its position in 
a rasi at the time of birth. In this system, Karakatwas are not 
given to Ketu, but Rahu can become karaka under certain 
conditions. The Karakatwas play a significant role in the 
delineation of horoscope in this system. 


The seven chara karakas are - 


. Atma karaka 

. Amatya Karaka 

. Bhratru karaka 

. Matru Karaka 

. Putra Karaka 

. Gnati Karaka and 
. Dara Karaka 


NOaohond a 


ATMA Karaka : The planet having highest longitude in a RASI 
is Atmakarka and normally denoted as Ak. 


AMATYA Karaka : The planet with the second highest 
longitude in a RASI will be Amatyakaraka for that horoscope 
and normally denoted as Amk. 


BHRATRU Karaka : The planet with third highest longitude in 
a RASI will be Bhratrukaraka for that native and normally 
denoted as Bk. 


MATRU Karaka : The planet with fourth highest longitude in a 
RASI will be Matrukaraka for that horoscope and normally 
denoted as Mk. 


PUTRA Karaka : The planet with fifth highest longitude in a 
RASI will be Putrakaraka for that horoscope and normally 
denoted as Pk. 


GNATI Karaka : The planet with sixth highest longitude in a 
RASI will be Gnathikaraka for that native and normally denoted 
as Gk. 


DARA Karaka : The planet having least longitude in a RASI will 
be Darakaraka for that horoscope and normally denoted as Dk. 


In all the above assessments, the Rahu and Ketu are not taken 
into account. | However, in some cases, where two planets 
become eligible for the same karakatwa due to their positioning 
at the same longitude, one karakatwa would become vacant 
and Rahu shall be considered for filling that Karakatwa. 


When three or more planets have identical longitude, then all 
the three become eligible for the same karakatwa. In such 
case, the Rahu is to be considered for the next karakatwa and 
the Naisargika karakas are. considered for the other 
karakatwas. For example - if Sun is the Bhratrukaraka and 
Moon & Mars have identical longitude in a rasi, then all the 
three hold the same karakatwa; Rahu becomes Matrukaraka; 
Putrakaraka being vacant, will be filled up by Jupiter, the 
natural significator of Children. 


The longitude of Rahu shall be considered from the end of the 
sign, as he traverses from the end towards the beginning of a 
sign. That is subtracting the longitude of Rahu from 30 degrees 
to get its true longitude in that sign. 


When considering Rahu for filling up a vacancy created by two 
or more planets having identical longitude, consider the 
planet(s) having highest degree for first karakatwa. (But not 
for Atmakaraka in 7 karaka scheme). 


7 


For other planets consider the longitude as it is whether the 
planet is direct or retrograde. In the chart of Smt. Indira 
Gandhi, Jupiter is at 14° 16’in Taurus and retrograde. However, 
only 14° 16' is considered while determinining the Karakatwa 
and retrograde is not considered atall. 


Nitya karakas: In BPHS sthira karakas are defined. They are 
common for all the horoscopes. Though it is not uncommon in 
using them in Jaimini system, Jaimini has attached additional 
significations to the following planets. 


Mars: Sisters, Younger brother, Brothers - in - law and Mother. 


Mercury: Maternal uncle, Mother's sisters/ Step-mother, Wife 
of Father's brothers and relatives from mother's side. 


Jupiter: Husband, Paternal Grand-parents, Children, Cousins 
and bosses or higher authorities. 


Venus: Brothers, Parents, Son-in-law, Father-in-law, Mother- 
in-law and maternal grand-parents. 


When two or more planets represent the same relationship, the 
planet which is having highest longitude shall be considered for 
that karakatwa. When the planets are having identical 
longitudes, then consider natural strength (Naisargika Bala) of 
the planets. Saturn, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus, Moon and 
Sun are stronger in ascending order. 


The natural beneficence and natural malevolence of the planets 
only are considered in Jaimini system 


Naisargika and additional karakatwas for Planets: Where 
ever it is not defined, then consider the sthira karakatwas 
defined by Parasara system. 


Smt.Indira Gandhi's chart has been taken as_ standard 
example, since most of the people know her life and incidents 
that occurred in her life. 


Indira Gandhi 
DOB: 19-11-1917 


TOB: 23:03 
POB: 81 E 52; 25 N 28 


| Karaka | Planet__— || Longitude _| 
| Bhratru karaka | Mars | 16:28 
| Gnathikaraka | Moon | 05:31 


Characteristics of Atma-Karaka (of various planets): The 
characteristics of the Atmakaraka, when different planets 
become atmakaraka as given below. 


Sun: When the Sun is Atmakaraka, the native is courageous 
and has endurance to face ups and downs in life. Unafflicted 
sun is considered as benefic. 


Moon: When Moon is Atmakaraka, the native is brilliant and 
adopt to any situation. 
Moon is always considered benefic. 


Mars: When Mars is Atmakaraka, the native is bold and 
dashing type and indulges in adventures and challenging tasks 
in life. Marsis considered malefic. 


Mercury: When Mercury is Atmakaraka the native is 
intelligent. They are fond of materialistic gains. Mercury is 
considered _benefic. 


Jupiter: When Jupiter is Atmakaraka, the native is self 
confident and has high ambitions in life. Jupiter is considered 
benefic. 


Venus: When Venus is Atmakaraka, the native is gentle. They 
are fond of worldly comforts and luxuries. Venus is considered 
benefic. 


Saturn: When Saturn is Atmakaraka, the native is principled in 
life and hard working. Saturn is considered malefic. Generally, 
it is observed that the native prospers in the later part of life. 


Note: Maharshi Jaimini classified the planets into natural 
benefics and malefics. There is no classification like functional 
benefics and malefics as in Parasara system. 


Results from Atmakaraka: This is the most important planet 
in a horoscope and entire horoscope revolves around it. The 
Atmakaraka, the rasi in which it is posited in Navamsa chart 
(known as Karakamsa) and that rasi of Navamsa Kundali in 
Janma-kundali (Known as Karakamsa Rasi) are extremely 
important in the assessment of the horoscope. The strength 
of Atmakaraka determines the strength of the horoscope. The 
position of AK determines the benefic or malefic results. He is 
considered strong when posited in exaltation, Moola -Trikona, 


10 


own house and friendly houses. He is considered weak when 
posited in debilitation, combust and in inimical signs. The 
inimical signs of the planets are listed below. 

Sun: Taurus, Gemini, Libra, Capricorn and Aquarius. 

Moon: Libra, Scorpio and Aquarius. 

Mars: Gemini, Virgo, Libra, Aquarius and Pisces. 

Mercury: Cancer, Scorpio, Aquarius and Pisces. 

Jupiter: Taurus, Gemini, Virgo and Libra. 

Venus: Cancer, Leo, Scorpio and Sagittarius. 


Saturn: Aries, Cancer, Leo, Scorpio and Sagittarius. 


The benefic houses for Rahu and Ketu are given below. When 
they are posited in these houses they deliver good results. 


Rahu: Aquarius, Pisces, Aries and Taurus 


Ketu: Scorpio, Sagittarius, Capricorn and Aquarius. 


11 


Chapter 3 
Arudha 


One of the beautiful concepts of Jaimini is Arudha. This gives 
instant linkage between Bhavas. Arudha is also known as Pada. 


Plotting of Arudhas: Arudhas are calculated for all the 12 
Bhavas. Count the number of rasis its Lord is away from a 
Bhava. The number of rasis counted from the position of the 


Lord will be the Arudha ofthat Bhava. 


Arudhas for all the 12 bhavas are termed as follows: 


Lagna Arudha or Arudha Lagna  -Arudhaof1sthouse [AL] 
i. Dhana or KoshaArudha -Arudha of 2nd house = [A2] 
ii. Vikrama or Bhratru Arudha -Arudha of 31a house = [A3] 
v. Vahana or Sukha Arudha -Arudha of 4" house. [A4] 
v. Mantra or Putra Arudha -Arudha of 5" house = [A5] 
vi. RogaorShatru Arudha -Arudha of 6h house = [A6] 
vii. Kama or Kalatraor DaraArudha -Arudha of 7th house  [A7] 
viii. Mrityu Arudha -Arudhaof8"house [A8] 
ix. Pitru or Bhagya Arudha -Arudha of 9 house = [A9] 
x. Karma or Nrupa Arudha - Arudha of 10% house [A10] 
xi. Labha Arudha -Arudha of 11th house [Al] 
xii. Vyaya Arudha or Upa-pada - Arudha of 12tn house [UL] 


[ Popularly known as Upa-pada Lagna] 


Special rules for Kendras: 


There are some exceptions in determination of Arudhas of a 
house when its lord is posited in 1, 4, 7 & 10th houses (Kendras). 


The rules are as below: 


When a Bhava Lord is located in 1st or 7tn house from the 
rasi for which pada is to be determined - Arudha falls in 
10i, house [for that particular Bhava] from that rasi. For 
example, for a Aries ascendant, if Mars is posited in 


12 


Aries or Libra, the Arudha of 1*' house will be Capricorn 
[10"" house counted from 1*'house]. 

+ When a Bhava Lord is located in 4" or 10" house from 
the rasi for which pada is to be determined - Arudha 
falls in 4"" house [for that particular Bhava] from that 
rasi. For example, for a Aries ascendant, if Mars is 
posited in Cancer or Capricorn, the Arudha of 1st house 
will be Cancer [4"" house counted from ist house]. 


Note: This is the most popular method in practice while 
preparing the Arudha chakra. 


The Arudhas for 12 Bhavas of the example chart are as follows: 


Indira Gandhi 


Arudha Chakra 


Chakras: Here chakra means not Varga kundalis. It is the 
order of reckoning rasis. Five types of chakras are used on 
different conditions and occasions. 


i. Udaya Chakra: All the Bhavas or Rasis are reckoned in 
regular order (Zodiac direction - Mesha, Vrishabha and 
so on). It is extensively used while delineating from 
Lagna both in Parasari and Jaimini systems. 


13 


ii. Prakriti Chakra: If Arudha lagna or the sign, which is 
under consideration, is an ODD sign, reckon the Bhavas 
or Rasis in regular order (zodiac direction - Mesha, 
Vrishabha and so on). If Arudha lagna is an EVEN sign, 
reckon the Bhavas or Rasis in reverse order (Anti- 
zodiac direction - Mesha, Meena and so on). It is 
extensively used in Rasi-dasas. 


iii. Vikriti Chakra: It is exactly opposite to Prakriti 
Chakra. That is, If Arudha lagna or the sign, which is 
under consideration is an ODD sign, reckon the Bhavas 
or Rasis in reverse order (anti-zodiac direction - Mesha, 
Meena and so on). If Arudha lagna is an EVEN sign, 
reckon the Bhavas or Rasis in regular order (Zodiac 
direction - Mesha, Vrishabha and so on). It is 
extensively used in dasas like chara dasa in a female 
horoscope. 


iv. Graha Chakra: This is peculiar to Jaimini system. 
Here, planets become Bhava lords commencing from 
the rasi-lord, in regular order basing on their placement 
in the horoscope. The lord of rasi, whose dasa is under 
consideration, becomes Thanu Bhavadhipathi. Next 
planet is Dhana Bhavadhipathi and so on. The 
exception is Vyaya bhavadhi pathi, who is the lord of 6 
bhava. It is extensively used in rasi dasas. 


v. Padakrama Chakra: Mesha, Vrishabha, Mithuna, Tula, 
Vriscika and Dhanus are vishama-pada (Oja) rasis. 
Kataka, Simha, Kanya, Makara, Kumbha and Meena are 
sama-pada (Yugma) rasis. Though it is not separately 
mentioned in any of the books, it is exclusively used to 
determine the order of Chara dasa (Parasara method). 


Note: Only 4 chakras are explained in Jataka Sara Sangraha. 
But, Pada(arma) Chakra is required for determining the 
dasa order of the chara dasa, which is explained in detail 
at later stage in this book. 


14 


Chapter 4 
Aspects & Argalas 
Aspects: 


In this system, the aspects are considered between rasis and 
not between planets. 


The following is the rule - 

+ All movable (Chara) rasis aspect all fixed rasis except the 
adjacent one. (All movable rasis aspect 5", 8" & 11" rasis 
from them, Zodiac direction) 

+ All fixed (Sthira) rasis aspect movable rasis except the 
previous one.(All fixed rasis aspect 3, 6 & 9" rasis from 
them, Zodiac direction) 

+ All common rasis (Dwi-Swabhava) aspect each other. 
(All common rasis aspect 4", 7" & 10" rasis from them, 


Zodiac direction) 
Sone 


fle 


|e 
SGC) 


_Aspecting rasis Aspected rasis 
Aries Leo, Scorpio, Aquarius 
Taurus Cancer, Libra, Capricorn 
Virgo, Sagittarius, Pisces | 
Cancer Scorpio, Aquarius, Taurus 
Leo Libra, Capricorn, Aries 
Virgo Sagittarius, Pisces, Gemini 
Libra Aquarius, Taurus, Leo 
_Scorpio Capricorn, Aries, Cancer 
Sagittarius Pisces, Gemini, Virgo 
Capricorn Taurus, Leo, Scorpio 
Aquarius Aries, Cancer, Libra 
Pisces Gemini, Virgo, Sagittarius 


15 


Sammukha rasi: 


Eighth from Chara rasi, 6" from a sthira rasi and 7" from 
Dwi-swabhava rasi are known as Sammukha Rasis, since they 
arein front of them. 


Because of the above rasi aspects, the planets posited in a rasi 
have aspects similar to that of a Rasi. 


Adarsha rasi: 


Adarsha means mirror. Adarsha rasi is the opposite one. 
Depending upon the situation either it could be 7” Rasi or 
sammukha rasi. For example - Adarsa rasi for Aries is either 
Libra or Scorpio depending on the situation. 


Let us find out the aspects of planets for our standard 
horoscope. 


(10. 34) (13: 14) 


16 


* In the above chart - Ju-aspects Sa, Mo and vice versa; 
Ma-aspects Mo and vice versa; Su & Me-aspect Sa & 
Moon and vice versa; Ve, Ra-aspect Ke and vice versa 


Argalas: 


The effects of the planetary influence through rasi 
aspect as mentioned above get modified by what is Known as 
‘Argala'. Argala means - that which obstructs the influence of 
a planet. But in Jaimini system, we may not take the meaning 
literally, because there are good and bad Argalas. Hence, we 
may define the Argala as modifying the influence of aspecting 
planet - either for good or bad. 


Argalas caused by natural benefics are called Subha Argalas or 
benefic Argalas and Argalas caused by natural malefics are 
called Papa or Asubha Argalas or malefic Argalas. Basically 
there are 3 types of Argalas. 


1. Primary Argalas: 


a. The Planets in 4th, 2nd or 11th houses from any planet 
(except Ketu) cause Argala. 

b. This Argala gets neutralised if there is a planet in 10t, 
12th or 31a house respectively. The neutralising planets 
are called 'Prathibandhakas' 

c. Natural benefics cause Shubha Argala and Natural 
malefics - papa argala. 


2. Secondary Argalas: 


a. The Planets in the 5tn or 9 house from any planet (except 
Ketu) cause Argala. 

b. This Argala gets neutralised if there is a planet in 9m or 5th 
house respectively. The neutralising planets are called 
"‘Prathibandhakas' 

c. Natural benefics cause Shubha Argala and Natural 
malefics cause - papa argala or asubha argala. 


17 


3. Tertiary Argalas: 


a. When two or more malefics are posited in 3° house from 
Aspecting planet - cause Argala. It creates a special 
Argala causing Raja Yoga. 

b. There is no cancellation to this Argala. That is even if 
planets are posited in the 11" house, this Argala does 
not get cancelled. 


Special rule for Ketu: For Ketu, a planet in 9" house (counted 
normally) causes Argala and if there is any planet in 5" house 
will cause Prathibandhaka to the above Argala. Planets in 4' 
2"7, 11™and 5" houses will not cause Argala for Ketu. 


If the counteracting planet / Planets are weak in strength, than 
the planet(s) causing Argala, then they will not be able to 
cancel the influence totally, but only reduce the effect. 


Let us find out the Argalas and Prathibandhakas in the following 
chart 


Indira Gandhi 


DOB: 19-11-1917 
TOB:23:03 
POB:81 E 52; 25 N 28 


Prathibandhaka 
Fsun—Ss«d Ve, Fay) CdTCN CCS” 
PMoon «| ~SuMe(iy) | Ni =i 


N 
N 
Su, Me (4) Ju(10) 

Ke(Il) 
cs) 

Ke(2) N 
fVe CTS Mo(2) | Su Me (12) 
K 
(12) 


“Sun il 
il 
u( 
Ju o(1 
[Me I 
Ve : 
Sa Ma (2) e(12) 
Ju(Il) Nil 
Su,Me(5) Nil 
Nil 


Moon(2) Sun, Me 


Note: Earlier the Argalas were being calculated for all the 
bhavas / planets. The present concept is that the argalas are to 
be calculated only for yoga causing planets. This would help in 
ascertaining the strength of yoga. They are not be used in 
determining effects in all the cases. 


Strength of Rasis: 


In Jaimini System, assessing the strength of a Rasi or Planet is 
much simpler, unlike in Parasari system, where there are 
elaborate methods. Normally the strength is assessed for 
Rasis. Primarily, there are FOUR sources of strength in Jaimini. 


First source of strength: 


* The sign having a planet is stronger than the one 
having no planet. 


19 


+ The sign having more number of planets is stronger 
than the one having less number of planets. 

* Ifboth the signs have equal number of planets, a planet 
having its exaltation, Moola-trikona or Swaskhetra in a 
rasi, will strengthen that sign. 

+ If both the signs are still having equal strength, the 
natural strength of the sign shall be considered 
(Dwiswabhava Rasi is stronger than Sthira Rasi and 
Chara Rasi is weaker than Sthira Rasi). 

* Even then, if both signs have equal strength, consider 
the strength of sign lords 


Second source of strength: 


* The second source of strength of a sign is the aspect or 
conjunction ofits Lord, Jupiter or Mercury. 


Third source of strength: 


+ The Third source of strength is by the placement of its 
Lord ina sign. 

* A planet that is in Kendra, Phanaphara and Apoklima 
from Atmakaraka becomes more and more powerless. 
A planet in Kendra is weak. A planet in Phanaphara is 
still weaker and a planet in Apoklima is the weakest 
one. 


Fourth source of strength: 


* The fourth source of strength is by the aspect or 
conjunction of its Lord, who is placed in an ODD sign 
with malefics. 

@ A Rasi lord also gets strength with the conjunction or 
association ( PAC ) of a planet being in the state of 
exaltation, Moola-Trikona, friendly house or in other 
favourable conditions. 


Application: The first source of strength is used to ascertain 
the strength ofa sign in Dasa-systems like Lagna & 7tn house or 
Lagna - Panchama - Navama etc. 


20 


Second source is used in chara dasa, which is explained in this 
book to ascertain the stronger of dual lords for Scorpio and 
Aquarius. 


Strength of Planets: 


+ Atmakaraka is the strongest among all the planets. 


* A planet who has advanced more (longitude in degrees 
and minutes) in a sign is stronger than the one who 
moved less in a sign. 

* A male planet in a female sign or a female planet in a 
male sign is strong, which is known as prathivesika bala. 

* From Atmakaraka, a planet who is in Kendra is stronger 


(Poorna bala); in panapara the planet has medium 
strength (Madhya bala) and in Apoklima, it is weak (Alpa 


bala). 

+ The natural strength of the planets in descending order 
is as below. 

* Sun - Moon - Venus - Jupiter - Mercury - Mars and 
Saturn. 


+ That is Sun is strongest and Saturn is weakest in natural 
strength (Naisargika bala). 


+ The source of strength of signs and planets are used in 
dasa systems and Graha Arudha. 


Other source of strength : : 
* A planet gets its strength, when it is placed in an Odd 


Sign and if there are planets in 2nq and 12tn from it. Even 
Signs do not have this strength. 


21 


Chapter 5 
Lagnas 


Many lagnas are being used in Jaimini system. Basically they 
can be grouped into two types. 


1. Phala-nirnaya Lagnas - fordelineation. 
2. Dhana and Rajayoga Lagnas- for wealth and authority. 


Phala-Nirnaya Lagnas: In Jaimini systems, six types 
of Lagnas are predominantly considered for delineation. They 
are- 


a. Arudha lagna: It is principal lagna for delineation. 
Hora Lagna: It is used for material prosperity. 

c. Bhava Lagna: It is used for delineation regarding 
parents. 

d. Varnada Lagna: It is used for nature of profession 
and physique of native. : 

e. Ghatika Lagna: It is used for status in the life. 


f. Pranapada Lagna: It is used for rectification of birth 
time. 


Dhana & Rajayoga Lagnas: 

There are special lagnas like Indu lagna, Sree Lagna, Tri- 
pravana Lagna and many more, which will be dealt in advanced 
studies. 


Phala-Nirnaya Lagnas: 

In the sutras of Jamini, one more lagna known as ‘karakamsa 
lagna’ also finds place predominantly. The aspects/application 
of Arudha lagna and Karakamsa Lagna will be dealt with 
separately. The other lagnas are discussed as under. 


22 


In the Jaimini System, the day duration, birth time etc., is 
computed in terms of Ghatis and Vighatis. Since in the 
modern days, everyone is accustomed to the standard duration 
Df 24 hours, this system (Hours and Minutes instead of Ghatis) 
is adopted in computing various lagnas in the succeeding 
paragraphs. 


a. 


Day 


Hora Lagna: Somanatha, one of the commentators on 
Jaimini mentions 5 types of Hora in his Kalpalatha. Each 
method has got its own application. Only two types are 
explained in this book. This method is known as 
Savayava Hora Lagna. 


Find out whether Janma Lagna is in odd or even rasi. 


Find out the day duration from Sun-rise to Sun-set for 
day birth and night duration from Sun-set to Sun-rise 
for night birth. Divide this duration by 12, which gives 
the duration of each hora. (There are 12 horas during 
the day and other 12 horas in the night making a total 
of 24 horas in a sayana day). 


Find the time elapsed from the Sunrise to the birth time 
for day birth and from the Sunset to the birth time for 
night birth. 


Birth: 


Divide the elapsed time with the duration of day-Hora 
time span (for day birth). This will give duration of 
each day hora. 


There will be an integer and a fraction. 
Add i to the integer and call this 'n'. 


Count n from Janma lagna in normal direction (zodiac 
direction) for ODD rasi births and count n from Janma 
Lagna in reverse direction (anti- zodiac direction) for 
even rasi births. 


The rasi thus arrived is Hora Lagna. 
23 


Multiply the reminder by 30. This gives the location of 
Hora Lagna in degrees. 


Night Birth: 


Note: 


Divide the elapsed time with the duration of night-Hora 
time span (for night birth). Divide the sum by 12. This 
will give duration of each night hora. 


There will be-an integer and a fraction. 


Add 12+1 to the integer and call this 'n' (or simply 
adding 1 to the integer is sufficient since 12 will make 
completion of one cycle of the zodiac). 


Count n from Janma lagna in normal direction (zodiac 
direction) for ODD rasi births and count n from Janma 
Lagna in reverse direction (anti-zodiac direction) for 
even rasi births. 

> 
The rasi thus arrived is Hora Lagna. 
Multiply the reminder by 30. This gives the location of 
Hora Lagna in degrees. 


This is mainly used in Chara Dasa for longevity 
purpose. It is slightly different from parasara's hora 
lagna, where the counting is always from Sun's 
longitude both for ODD and EVEN rasis. 


b. Bhava Lagna: Bhava lagna for a horoscope is determined 
as follows: 


Find out whether Janma Lagna is in odd or even rasi. 


Find the time elapsed from the Sunrise to the birth time 
[in hours] and Divide this by 2. 


Add 1 to the Quotient and call this 'n' 


Count n from Janma lagna in normal direction (zodiac 
direction) for ODD rasi births and count n from Janma 
Lagna in reverse direction (anti- zodiac direction) for 
even rasi births. 


24 


The rasi thus arrived is Bhava Lagna. 


Multiply the reminder by 30. This gives the location of 
Bhava Lagna in degrees. 


Varnada Lagna: In this system, all the 12 rasis have 


Varnada Lagnas. The procedure for determination of 
Varnada Lagna point for 1** house is elaborated as under: 


Note: 


If Janma lagna is in odd rasi, count in zodiac direction 
from Aries to Janma Lagna. 


If Janma lagna is In even rasi, count in anti- zodiac 
direction from Piscesto Janma lagna. Call this'A'. 


Similarly, if Hora lagna is in odd or even rasi count from 
Aries or Pisces in zodiac direction or anti- zodiac 
direction up to Janma lagna respectively. Call this 'B’. 


If both Janma lagna and hora lagna are either in odd or 
in even rasi, thenadd: A+B. 


lf Janma lagna and hora lagna are in different rasis, 
i.e., one in odd and the other in even, then subtract: 
A - B. [Subtraction should be from larger figure 
always] Call this 'C'. 


lfA & B are equal, then consider the longitudes of both 
lagnas and do the subtraction. 


Expunge multiples of 12. [Divide by 12 and take the 
reminder] 


Count C either from Aries in zodiac direction or from 
Pisces in anti- zodiac direction depending on whether 
Janma Lagna is in odd or even rasi, varnada lagna is 
determined. 


d. Ghatika Lagna: The method of determining Ghatika 
Lagna is as follows: 


Find the time elapsed from sun rise to the time of birth. 
The duration of each Ghatika Lagna is 24 minutes. 
Divide the time elapsed in minutes by 24. 

2 


*  Expunge multiples of 12 of the quotient. 
* Add 1 tothe Quotient and call this 'n’ 


* Count n from Janma lagna in normal direction (zodiac 
direction) for ODD rasi births and count n from Janma 
Lagna in reverse direction (anti- zodiac direction) for 
even rasi births. 


* — The rasi thus arrived is Ghatika Lagna. 


[Some scholars insist that Ghatika lagna should always be 
computed from Sun's longitude ory, since the start of the day 
is reckoned from the Sun rise, There are other opinions 
regarding method of counting -from Sun rasi or Janma Lagna]. 


Nisheka Lagna: 

This Lagna is more described by Parasara, Samara Singha and 
others and Jaimini does not use it often. | Hence this is not 
dealt in detail here. : 

Now, let us find out various Lagnas for the example chart of 
Smt. Indira Gandhi. 


Indira Gandhi 


DOB: 19-11-1917 
TOB: 23:03 
POB:81 E 52; 25N 28 


Sun rise time on 19% November 1917 was O6hrs 26 mins., 
sunset time 17hrs, O9mins. The sun rise time on the next day 
was 06 hrs 26 mins. 


Bhava Lagna: 


Time elapsed - 16hrs 37 mins or 16.62 hrs. 
Dividing by 2 - 8.31 ; adding 1 to quotient, we get 9x 


Count from Sun rasi 9 rasis in anti- zodiac direction, 
since the birth is in even rasi; we get Pisces 


The time span of each bhava is 2 hours. 
Longitude of BLis 30 * 0.31=9.2° 


Hora Lagna: 


Duration of night hora - [(difference between Sunset 
time on 19%) and sun rise time on 20t Nov) / 12] = (13 
hrs, 17 mins /12)= 1 hr6mins. Or 1.1 hrs. 


Birth time is 23 hrs 03 mins. 

Time elapsed in night hora is (23.05-17.15)=5.9 hours 
Add 12+1 to integer, which becomes 18. 

Janma Lagna is Cancer - even rasi. 


The 18th hora from Sun rasi in anticlockwise direction 
will be Gemini rasi. 


The hora lagna will be Gemini Rasi. 
The Longitude will be 30*.9=27° 


| Varnada Lagna: 


We will calculate Varnada Lagna for the 1st house. 


Janma Lagna is even. Cancer is Qth from 
Pisces(anticlockwise) (A) 


Hora lagna is Gemini, odd rasi & is 31a from Aries. (B) 
Since Janma Lagna even & Hora Lagna is odd, (A-B) is 
6(C) 

27 


* Counting 6 from Pisces, we get Libra. 
+ So Varnada Lagna for 1*' house is Libra. 


Ghatika Lagna: 
@ Time elapsed fromTOB - 16 hrs 37 min or 997 mins. 
+ Dividing 997 by 24, we get 41.54 
* Add 1 to quotient &expunging multiples of 12, we get 6 


- 6" from Cancer is Sagittarius, which is Ghatika Lagna for 
this horoscope. 


* The Longitude will be 30*.54=16°12' 


Uses of Lagnas: 


1. Arudha indicates the wealth and (general tendency) of 
the native. If it is Shubha Arudha, the native becomes 
rich otherwise if papa-Arudha penury. 


2. Raja yogas are known and delinated from ghatika lagna. 
It is also used to ascertain the status in one's life. 
3. Bhava lagna indicates about parents, their character etc. 


4. Hora Lagna is used to determine the longevity and 
rajayogas of parents and also for the material 
prosperity. 

5. Varnada lagna is used for the nature of profession and 
physique of native. 


| 


Chapter 6 
DIVISIONAL CHARTS 


Basically three divisional charts are extensively used in Jaimini 
system. They are Hora, Drekkana and Navamsa. Their 
construction is also different from Parasara method. 


HORA(D-2):. The second type of Hora used is 
Parivruttadwaya Hora. This is different from Hora Lagna 
defined earlier. The Method of casting is as detailed below: 


Each rasi is divided into two equal parts of 15° each. Thus 
zodiac contains 24 horas in total. The first hora starts from 
Aries and continues zodiacally. 


Indira Gandhi 
Hora Chart 


29 


DREKKANA(D-3): Chiefly two methods are employed to 
erect drekkana chart. 


Parivruttatraya Drekkana: Each rasi is divided into three 
equal parts of 10° each. Thus zodiac contains 36 drekkanas in 
total. The first drekkana starts from Aries and continues 
zodiacally. 


Rasi in 
D1 
Chart 


Krama- Vyutkrama Drekkana: 

The first drekkana starts from Aries continues zodiacally for 
ODD signs and the first drekkana starts from Pisces continues 
anti-zodiacally for EVEN signs. This is also called Somanatha 
method of Drekkana. 


111 Drek- 
kana 


(20-30) 


* Earthy signs - Ta, Vi, Cap - The sequence starts from 
Virgo and is in counter-zodiacal direction 

@ Airy signs - Ge, Li, Aq - The sequence starts from Libra 
and is in zodiacal direction. 


* Watery signs - Cn, sc, Pi - The sequence starts from 
Pisces and is in counter-zodical direction. 


The above procedure is summarized in the following table 


eee IN eon ee sale ee 


Note: The sequence is different from the method explained by 
Krishna Mishra in Jyothish Phala Ratnamala and is not 
detailed here. 


The Navamsa chart for the standard horoscope is as below: 


Indira Gandhi 


(Navarasa Chart) 


Amsa Lagna: 


The Lagna in Navamsa kundali is known as Amsa-Lagna. 
Jaimini, it appears, has not attached as much importance as 
Karakamsa lagna and Karakamsa rasi. If it is aspected or 
posited with benefics, it confirms comforts and status to the 
native. It is also used in Raja yogas. 


Karakamsa Lagna: 


The sign in which Atmakaraka is posited in navamsa is called 
Karakamsa Lagna. That is Karaka (Atma) in Amsa-Kundali is 
Karakamsa Lagna or simply known as Karakamsa. This is 
different from (Navamasa)Amsa Lagna. It is one of important 
reference points while delineating the horoscope. Profession, 
disease, spouse and other important parameters are 
delineated with reference to this. General readings from 
Karakamsa are as below. 


Aries: _ If Ak is posited in Aries in Navamsa kundali, then the 
native may suffer from the nuisance of rats & cats or 
may involve with trading of animals. 


Taurus: If Ak is posited in Taurus in Navamsa kundali, then 
the native may get benefit through quadruped 
animals. 


Gemini: If Ak is posited in Gemini in Navamsa kundali, then 
the native may Suffer from skin diseases. 


Cancer: If Ak is posited in Cancer in Navamsa kundali, then 
the native may face Danger from water. 


Leo: If AK is posited in Leo in Navamsa kundali, then the 
native may have fear and danger from wild animals. 


Virgo: If Akis posited in Virgo in Navamsa kundali, then the 
native may sufferfrom itches and allergies of skin. 


Libra: If Ak is posited in Libra in Navamsa kundali, then the 
native may be involved in trading. 


Scorpio: If Ak is posited in Scorpio in Navamsa kundali, then 
the native may have fear from reptiles. He may also 
be deprived of mother's milk. 


3 


Saggitarius: lf Ak is posited in Saggitarius in Navamsa 


kundali, then the native may suffer from vehicle 
accidents or fall from higher places. The native 
may be fond of horse riding. 


Capricorn: If Ak is posited in Capricorn in Navamsa kundaili, 


then the native may Gain from marine products. 


Aquarius: If Ak is posited in Aquarius in Navamsa kundali, 


Pisces: 


General: 


Karakam 


then the native may be involved with the 
construction activities related to water bodies. 


If Ak is posited in Pisces in Navamsa kundali, then 
the native may be a philanthropist and attain 
salvation atthe end. 


If the angles and Trines from Karakamsa are 
occupied by benefics, then the native is 
knowledgeable and wealthy. 


sa Rasi: © 


The sign in which Atmakaraka is posited in navamsa is referred 
as Karakamsa rasi in rasi-kundali (D - 1 chart). It_also plays an 


important 


role like Karakamsa lagna. 


When Karakamsa rasi is occupied by various planets, the 
following results are indicated by sage Parasara. 


Sun: 


Moon: 


Mars: 


Mercury: 


The native is engaged in Government jobs. If Sun is 
in exaltation, the native may be a government 
servant or even a high level minister. If in 
debilitation, he may be an ordinary servant. 


The native will enjoy luxuries. The level of luxury 
depends onthe strength ofthe Moon. 


The native is engaged in matters related to weapons, 
fire. 


The native is engaged in Business, trade, sculpture 
or weaving. He is Well educated and intelligent. 


34 


Jupiter: 
Venus: 
Saturn: 


Rahu: 


Ketu: 


The native is humble and pious. He is a philosopher 
and may be a priest. 


The native will have a full life span of 100 years. Very 
lustful and engaged in political career. 


The native follows his family tradition. 


The native is engaged in archery, machines or 
dealing with poisonous chemicals. Or he may even 
become a thief. 


The native is engaged in the jobs involved with 
elephants or similar animals. Or he may even 
become a thief. 


Note: The above results can be expected when the above 
planets occupy Navamsa lagna also. 


All the 12 houses from Karakamsa rasi are also to be analysed. 


In the standard chart, Navamsa lagna is Leo. 


Karakamsa Lagna is Virgo, since Ak Saturn is in virgo in 


Navamsa. 


Karakamsa rasi is Virgo in Janma kundaii. 


Chapter 7 


YOGAS 


There are many yogas in Jaimini system. Basically, they can be 
classified into 3 categories. 1. Dhana & Raja yogas (Wealth & 
authority); 2. Daridra yogas (Poverty) and 3. Miscellaneous 
yogas. These yogas chiefly arise with respect to Lagnas, 
Atmakaraka, Karakamsa and Dusthanas. Few books like Jataka 
Rajeeyam and Vanchanatheeyam deal mainly with Raja yogas. 
Few important combinations / principles are given below. 


1. 


Association of chara karakas, other than Gnathi karaka 
forms yoga. Of these the powerful one being the 
association of Atmakaraka and putrakaraka. It becomes 
more powerful when the association takes place either in 
Janma lagna or in 5” house from Janma lagna or 
Karakamsa Lagna. 


Association of Lagna lord and 5" lord is another powerful 
yoga. 


When lagnas of divisional charts along with Janma lagna is 
aspected by a planet forms yoga. 


Similarly special lagnas Hora lagna, Ghatika lagna etc., 
along with Janma lagna is aspected by a planet forms 
yoga. 

Placement of malefic in 6" and 8" houses forms yoga. 


When 6" and 8" lords become debilitated and aspect 
Janma lagna forms yoga. 


If debilitated 6" & 8" lords posited in 3° and 11™ houses and 
aspects lagna, yoga is formed. 


Benefic 6" &8" lords aspecting lagna forms a Rajayoga 


When benefics posited in Kendras from Atmakaraka 
creates yoga. 


10. If Arudha lagna and Dara-arudha are mutually posited in 
kendras forms yoga. 


11. Karakamsa plays an important role while forming yogas. 


In this connection, a planet causing yoga under specific 
conditions is called Yogada. Yogada means giver of Yogas. A 
planet becomes yogada, if 


i. It conjoins or aspects simultaneously Lagna and Hora 
Lagna OR 


ii. It conjoins or aspects simultaneously Hora Lagna and 
Ghatika Lagna OR 


iii. Even ifa planet owns the rasi in which the above lagnas are 
located, then also the planet becomes Yogada. 


Yogada planet can bestow very high prosperity to the 
native during its dasa period. 


Kemadruma Yoga: 


The most malefic yoga mentioned in Jaimini is kemadruma 
yoga. When there are malefics in 2” and 8" from Janma Lagna 
or Arudha Lagna or Karakamsa Lagna, this yoga is formed. The 
important factor is that the both houses shall have same 
number of planets. That is if there are two malefic planets in the 
second house then the eigth house also shall contain two 
planets. 


It gives extreme poverty and the native lives by begging. 


Chapter 8 
DASA SYSTEM 


The distinctive feature of dasa system in Jaimini is its 
classification. The dasa system is divided into two groups - one 
being the Phalitha dasa and the other one being Ayur dasa. This 
feature is not found in any other branch of astrology. 


All the Dasas are Rasi based Dasas. There are 3 types in chara 
Dasa. This particular chara dasa is used for both as phalitha 
dasa and Ayur dasa. The methodology applied in calculating 
dasa system and readings are based on rules mentioned by 
Sage Parasara. Chara Dasa is widely used for determining the 
timing of events. The Chara Dasa period for each native 
depends on the placement of Rasi Lord in the horoscope and 
this method of computation of Dasa period is unique. Because 
the total dasa period varies from horoscope to horoscope, it is 
popularly called chara dasa. There are some variants in this 
dasa system. The method explained here has few deviations 
from other authors. 


Chara Dasa (Parasara method): 


In order to assess the Dasa period, certain terminologies have 
to be understood thoroughly. They are- 


Oja Rasis are - Aries, Taurus, Gemini, Libra, Scorpio, 
Sagittarius. They are also called Vishamapada rasis or Savya 
rasis. 


Yugma Rasis are - Cancer, Leo, Virgo, Capricorn, Aquarius and 
Pisces. They are also called Samapada rasis or Apa-savya 
rashis. 


Savya Chakra - The direction of counting of houses is done 
zodiacally. 


Apasavya Chakra - The direction of counting of houses is done 
in anti-zodiac direction. 


: 
| 
| 
{ 
‘. 
| 
| 
! 
i 
H 


The above concept is illustrated in the following chart - 


Savya Chakra 


NOTE: Padakrama (chakra) is followed here. The classification 
of Oja and Yugma rasis are limited to this particular 
type of Chara dasa only. 


Method of Determination Chara Dasa - 


The starting of Chara Dasa is always from _ the 
Ascendant. To find out the sequence of dasa order, the 
following rule is to be applied - 


From the Lagna, find out where the 9"" house falls - in 
Oja or Yugma Rasi. 


If it falls in Oja rasi, the order of Dasa is in zodiac 
direction [Savya]. 


+ If it falls in Yugma Rasi, the order of Dasa is Anti- 
zodiac direction [Apasavya]. 


For example, for Aries ascendant, 9" house is Sagittarius, 
which falls in Vishamapada rasi. So the order of chara dasa 
will be in zodiac direction from Aries - i.e. Aries -Taurus- 
Gemini etc. 


39 


For Cancer ascendant, the 9" house falls in Pisces, which is 
Samapada rasi. So the order of chara dasa will be in anti- 
zodiac direction from Cancer- i.e. Cancer-Gemini-Taurus etc. 


Dasa order for all the 12 ascendants are tabulated below for 
easy reference. 


Aries (zodiac direction): Aries, Taurus, Gemini, Cancer, Leo, 
Virgo, Libra, Scorpio, Sagittarius, 
Capricorn, Aquarius and Pisces. 


Taurus (anti zodiac direction): 
Taurus, Aries, Pisces, Aquarius, 
Capricorn, Sagittarius, Scorpio, Libra; 
Virgo, Leo, Cancer and Gemini. 


Gemini (anti zodiac direction): 
Gemini, Taurus, Aries, Pisces, 
Aquarius, Capricorn, Sagittarius, 
Scorpio, Libra, Virgo, Leo and Cancer. 


Cancer (anti-zodiac direction): 
Cancer, Gemini, Taurus, Aries, Pisces, 
Aquarius, Capricorn, Sagittarius, 
Scorpio, Libra, Virgo and Leo. 


Leo (zodiac direction): Leo, Virgo, Libra, Scorpio, Sagittarius, 
Capricorn, Aquarius, Pisces, Aries, 
Taurus, Gemini and Cancer. 


Virgo (zodiacdirection): Virgo, Libra, Scorpio, Sagittarius, 
Capricorn, Aquarius, Pisces, Aries, 
Taurus, Gemini, Cancer and Leo. 


Libra (zodiac direction):Libra, Scorpio, Sagittarius, Capricorn, 
Aquarius, Pisces, Aries, Taurus, 
Gemini, Cancer, Leo and Virgo. 


Scorpio (anti-zodiac direction): 
Scorpio, Libra, Virgo, Leo, Cancer, 
Gemini, Taurus, Aries, Pisces, 
Aquarius, Capricorn and Sagittarius. 


40 


Sagittarius (anti-zodiac direction): 
Sagittarius, Scorpio, Libra, Virgo, Leo, 
Cancer, Gemini, Taurus, Aries, Pisces, 
Aquarius and Capricorn. 


Capricorn (anti-zodiac direction): 
Capricorn, Sagittarius, Scorpio, Libra, 
Virgo, Leo, Cancer, Gemini, Taurus, 
Aries, Pisces and Aquarius. 

Aquarius (zodiac direction): 
Aquarius, Pisces, Aries, Taurus, 
Gemini, Cancer, Leo, Virgo, Libra, 


Scorpio, Sagittarius and Capricorn. 
Pisces (zodiac direction): 


Pisces, Aries, Taurus, Gemini, Cancer, 
Leo, Virgo, Libra, Scorpio, Sagittarius, 
Capricorn and Aquarius. 
After determining the order of dasa, the dasa period ofthe rasis 
are computed as per the following rules: 


1. The number of years of dasa ofa rasi is equal to the number 
of houses its Lord is away from it [excluding the rasi under 
reference]. For example, for an Aries ascendant, if Mars is 
located in Gemini, the dasa period of Aries is [3-1] 2 years. 


2. To compute the dasa period of a Vishamapada rasi, position 
of its Lord is to be reckoned in zodiac direction; and of a 
Samapada rasi in anti- zodiac direction. 


3. Ifthe Lord ofa rasi is exalted, the dasa period of that rasi is 
to be increased by one year. 


4. Ifthe Lord of a rasi is debilitated, the dasa period of that rasi 
is to be decreased by one year. 


5. IftheLord ofa rasi is posited in his own rasi, the dasa period 
is to be taken as 12 years. 


41 


Note: 


a. Maximum number of years in chara dasa is 12 years. 
Hence 1 year shall not be added to 12 years 
(Swakshetra), when Mercury is posited in Virgo. 


b. Minimum number of years in chara dasa is 1 year. 
Hence 1 year shall not be deducted from 1 year, when 
Jupiter is posited in Capricorn. 


Special rules for Scorpio and Aquarius: 


For Scorpio rasi the lordship is given to Mars and Ketu. 


For Aquarius rasi, lordship is given to two planets - Saturn and 
Rahu. 


For computing the dasa period of these two rasis, the stronger 
of the above lords is to be found. 


+ If Mars or Saturn becomes Ak consider them as 
stronger than Ketu and Rahu respectively. 


Otherwise consider the following criteria - 


+ If both are in their own house, dasa period is to be 
reckoned as 12 years. 


+ — If both of them are together in a rasi, then the normal 
rule isto be applied. 


° If one lord is in its own house and the other in a 
different rasi, then ignore the former and consider the 
later. 


+ — |fthey are not together in one rasi, then prefer the lord 
with strength 


Strength: 


a. A planet aspected by the rasi lord, in which rasi it is 
posited or Jupiter or Mercury is strong. 


b. A planet associated with another planet is strong than 
the planet, which does not have association. 


42 


c. If both have equal associations, then consider the 
strength of the rasi. Dwiswabhava rasi is stronger than 
Sthira rasi and Sthira rasi is stronger than Chara rasi. 


d. Even then if both of them have equal strength, then 
consider the planet which gives more number of years. 


Now, let us compute the Chara Dasa period for the 
following horoscope - 


Indira Gandhi 


DOB: 19-11-1917 


POB:81 E 52; 25 N28 


Dasa order - The ascendant is Cancer; the 9" house is Pisces, 
which is an apasavya rasi. Hence, the dasa chakra will be in 
anti-zodiac direction. The dasa period is tabulated as below: 


For Vishamapada (Oja) rasis, count from the sign to its lord in 
zodiac direction (ZD). 


or Samapada (Yugma) rasis, count from the sign to its lord in 
anti-zodiac direction (AZD). 


Gemini (ZD) 


caved 


6h 
git A 
nies @oy | a strat 


Aquarius (AZD) Sa/Ra#| 8" rasi 


Pisces (AZD) 


Sagittarius (ZD) 6" rasi 
Scorpio (ZD) Ma/Ke$ 


# Saturn considered - Being Ak 


$ Ke considered - Ma & Ke do not have associations; Ke is in 
dual rasi. 


Note: The total number of years in Chara dasa does not 
indicate longevity. If life span is more, Chara dasa 
periods of each sign repeat till the completion of life 
span. 


fis 
[capricom azo) | se [7a _| 6 | nov 1986 | nov 1062 _| 
|e | 


Sub- Periods (Antar dasa) in Chara Dasa: 


The Sub-dasa ofa rasi dasa is to be computed following similar 
procedures of determining the chara dasa. The sub-dasa 
cycle depends on the 9" house of the sign for which the dasa is 
to be computed - whether it is oja rasi or yugma rasi. If theo" 
house is oja rasi, the antar dasa cycle will be zodiac direction; if 
it is yugma rasi, it will be in anti-zodiac direction. The first 
sub-dasa will be the second rasi from the sign for which the 
antar dasa are to be considered. 


44 


| For example, if the sub-dasa period of Leo is to be computed, 

- then the 9" from Leo is Aries, which is a savya rasi. So the 
sub- dasa cycle will be zodiac direction. For Sagittarius rasi, 
the 9" house is Leo, which is an apasavya rasi. So the sub- 
dasa cycle would be in anti-zodiac direction. 


Sub-dasa Period: 


Since the number of sub-dasas are 12, the duration of rasi dasa 
gets divided into 12 parts. So if the period of rasi-dasa is 8 
years, the period of Antar-dasa will be 8 months. 


Let us compute the Antar-dasa periods of Scorpio dasa for the 
example horoscope mentioned above: 


+ The 9" rasi from Scorpio is Cancer, which is in Apa- 
savya group. So the sub-dasa cycle will be anti-zodiac 
direction. 


+ The starting sub-dasa will be the second from scorpio - 
i.e.Libra(AZD). 


The sub-dasa periods are as follows: 
Main Dasa - Scorpio 

Dasa period - 7 years 

Sub-dasa period - 7 months 


June 1963 
Jan 1064 


—ar 
——— 
cancer| | Aug 1964 | Mar 1905 
[Gemini | | Mar 1965 | ct 1965 


[Aquarius | uly 1967 | Feb 1968 


Sept 1968 | April 1969 


Feb 1968 Sept 1968 
April 1969 Nov 1969 


Chapter 9 


INTERPRETATION OF RASI (Chara) DASA 


Though chara dasa explained in this book is normally described 
as ayurdasa by the ancient commentators, Sage Parasara 
treated it as phalitha dasa and described it as below. For the full 
details, the reader is advised to refer BPHS. 


1. 


The results of a Rasi are interpreted on the basis of the 
strength of its Lord. 


The results will be full, medium and poor based on the 
strength of its Lord being strong, medium and weak 
respectively. 


The Dasa of a rasi having a benefic planet as its Lord or 
if a benefic planet is posited therein, the results of that 
Dasa will be auspicious. 


During the Dasa of an auspicious rasi, when a malefic 
planet posited in it, the rasi will deliver favourable 
results first and then unfavourable results follow. 


During the Dasa of an inauspicious rasi, when a benefic 
posited in it, the rasi will deliver unfavourable results 
first and then favourable results follow. 


During the Dasa ofan auspicious rasi, when benefic and 
malefic planets are posited in it, the rasi will deliver 
unfavourable results first and then favourable results 
follow. 


During the Dasa of an inauspicious rasi, when a malefic 
posited in it, the rasi will deliver unfavourable results 
(mental and bodily sufferings) throughout its Dasa 
period. 


There will be success and favour from the Government 
during the Dasa of a rasi, if benefics are posited in 2nd 
and 5" from that rasi. 


46 


13. 


14, 


15. 


16. 


17. 


20. 


2 


— 


There will be unfavourable results during the Dasa of a 
rasi, if malefics are posited in 2" and 5" from that rasi.' 


. There will be success and victory during the Dasa of a 


rasi, if malefics are posited in 3d and 6in from that rasi. 


. There will be troubles and failure during the Dasa of a 


rasi, if benefics are posited in 31d and 6m from that rasi. 


. There will be success and gains during the Dasa of a 


rasi, either benefics or malefics are posited in 11from 
that rasi. 


There will be happiness and good health during the 
Dasa ofa rasi, if benefics are posited in 5th and 8th from 
that rasi. 


There will be troubles during the Dasa of a rasi, if 
malefics are posited in 5th, 9 and 8 from that rasi. 


There will be inclination towards one's own religion 
during the Dasa of a rasi, if benefics are posited in 9th 
from that rasi. 


There will be converse results during the Dasa ofa rasi, 
if malefics are posited in 9 from that rasi. 


There will be mixed results during the Dasa ofa rasi, if 
both benefics and malefics are posited in 9in from that 
rasi. 


. There may be trouble to the health of spouse during the 


Dasa of a rasi, if malefics are posited in 7 from that 
rasi. 


. There may be displacement or loss of house during the 


Dasa of a rasi, if malefics are posited in 4th from that 
rasi. 


There may be trouble to the son of the native during the 
Dasa of a rasi, if malefics are posited in 5t from that 
rasi. 


. There may be trouble to the father of the native during 


the Dasa ofa rasi, if malefics are posited in 9th from that 
rasi. 


47 


22. 


23. 


24. 


25. 


26. 


27. 


28. 


29. 


30. 


31. 


32. 


33. 


There may be degradation or loss of status during the 
Dasa of a rasi, if malefics are posited in 10th from that 
rasi. 


There may be all sorts of troubles and obstacles during 
the Dasa of a rasi, if malefics are posited in 11th from 
that rasi. 


There may be all round success during the Dasa of a 
rasi, if benefics are posited in 11™from that rasi. 


There may be all round success and gain of wealth 
during the Dasa ofa rasi, if benefics are posited in 
Kendras from that rasi. 


The Dasa of a rasi having a benefic planet posited in it 
and a benefic planet is posited in the previous rasi; the 
results of that Dasa will be auspicious. 


The Dasa of a rasi having a malefic planet posited in it 
and a malefic planet is posited in the previous rasi; the 
results of that Dasa will be inauspicious. 


There will be favourable results during the Dasa of a 
rasi, if benefics are posited in 5, 8h and 12th from that 
rasi. 


There will be unfavourable results during the Dasa of a 
rasi, if malefics are posited in 5th, 8h and 12th from that 
rasi. 


There will be favourable results during the Dasa of a 
rasi, ifan exalted or own planet is posited in it. 


There will be unfavourable results during the Dasa of a 
rasi, if itis devoid of any planet. 


There will be extra-ordinary properties during the Dasa 
of a rasi, if Venus posited in 2" from that rasi. 


There will be acquisition of Lands, vehicles and 
properties during the Dasa of a rasi, if Moon has joined 
with that Venus (posited in 2nd from that rasi). 


48 


34.There will be conflicts over parental properties during 
the Dasa ofa rasi, if Rahu is posited in 2nd from that rasi. 


But the native gets some kind of benefit during this 
period. 


Note: 


1. The benefics rasis are Taurus, Libra, Sagittarius, Pisces, 


Gemini and Virgo owned by benefics Venus, Jupiter and 
Mercury respectively. 


Before arriving at the conclusion, consider the Natal chart 
along with transits of the planets over that Rasi. 


49 


Chapter 10 


Analysis of Horoscope 
& 
TIMING of EVENTS 


While delineating a horoscope, the important reference 
locations to be considered are - 


+ Lagna 

* Arudha lagna 

+ Upapada Lagna 

+ Atmakaraka 

* Karakamsa Lagna 

* Karakamsa rasi and 
* Divisional charts 


Care should be taken while delineating with reference to lagna. 
Though there are other schools of thought, the order of 
counting of houses (Bhavas) shall be considered in zodiac order 
from ascendant. That is, for Cancer ascendant, First house is 
Cancer, Second house is Leo, Third house is Virgo and so on. In 
other words, irrespective of nature of Sign, whether it belongs 
to Odd sign or Even sign, the counting and delineation shall be 
done in normal zodiac order. However, Sign aspects and Yogas 
shall be considered as per Jaimini system. 


While delineating from Arudha Lagna, the order of counting 
depends upon the type of sign - Odd or Even. If Cancer 
happens to be Arudha lagna, then First house is Cancer, Second 
house is Gemini, Third house is Taurus and so on. 


50 


A simple example will make it clear. Assume for Taurus 
ascendant, Venus is in Gemini along with Mercury. 
Automatically, Cancer becomes Arudha Lagna. While reading 
from Lagna, Lagna lord Venus is in second house along with 
second lord Mercury. While reading from Arudha Lagna Cancer, 
third lord Venus is in second house along with second lord 
Mercury. 


From Upapada, Atmakaraka, Karakamsa Lagna, Karakamsa 
Rasi and divisional charts, the reading is in zodiac order 
normally. 


Atmakaraka plays an important role while delineating. 
Consider the following additional reference points as ascendant 
while delineating. 


1. Karakamsa Rasi in Janma Kundali (D-1 chart) 


2. Karakamsa (Where Ak posited in Navamsa Kundali - 
D-9) 


3. Sign in which Ak is posited in Drekkana Kundali (D-3). 


Amatya karaka place an important role in marriage, child birth, 
elevation in employment and social status. Planetary positions, 
aspects and yogas shall be considered as per Jaimini principles 
only. 


Marriage: 


In timing of marriage, Upapada plays an important role. 
Upapada is also known as Gowna pada. Arudha lagna or Lagna 
pada is primary and Gowna pada is second in priority among all 
the padas. 


Upapada, second house to Upapada and Kalatra-Arudha (A7) 
are important houses. Similarly, Venus, Moon and Ketu (who is 
not malefic in Chara dasa) are important planets. Transit of 
Jupiter is also an important factor. In Jaimini Jupiter represents 
husband. 


The possibility of marriage taking place is high in the following 
conditions. 


51 


1. During dasa or antar-dasa of ULrasi dasa. 
During dasa or antar-dasa of rasi dasa aspected by UL. 


3. During dasa or antar-dasa of rasi having Venus, Moon 
or Ketu in it. 


4. During dasa or antar-dasa of rasi occupied or aspected 
by Dk. 

5. Transit of Jupiter on the second house from UL in 
Janma kundali (D-1). 


The natural tatwa and friendship or enmity among Ak and Dk 
indicates the harmony between the wife and husband. If a 
strong planet is posted in AL or 7t from it, the couple lives 
happily. If AL and A7 are in quadrant or trine mutually, there 
will be good understanding between wife and husband. 
Otherwise, if they are in 6-8 position, the couple always quarrel 
and there will not be any harmony between them. 


Upapada or it's second house are important in matters related 
to spouse. Benefic signs or benefic planets posited in these 
houses ensures marital happiness and compatibility between 
the couple. 


Children: 


Like in marriage, Upapada plays an important role in birth of 
children and their nature. Upapada, 7in house from it and it's 
navamsa rasi, Putra-Arudha and Putra karaka are important 
while delineating regarding children. Similarly, their lords are 
also to be considered. In Jaimini system Qt» house is considered 
for children. Jupiter and 5th house are also to be considered. 


Sun, Jupiter and Rahu bestow more children and Saturn, Moon 
and Mercury cause less children. Now a days one or two 
children are only the norm, unlike in earlier days. In some 
cases there is delay or denial of children. A number of 
combinations are available in Jaimini for these conditions. We 
may have to consider these factors also, which will be dealt in 
advance studies. 


In Smt. Indira Gandhi's chart, the marriage and birth of 
children occurred during the dasa of Pisces. Readers can verify 
these facts with the principles mentioned earlier. 


Marriage : 26.03.1942 In Pisces major dasa and Gemini 


antar dasa. 

| child birth: 20.11.1944 In Pisces major dasa and Libra 
antardasa. 

Il child birth: 14.12.1946 In Pisces major dasa and Venus 
antardasa. 


Chapter 11 


LONGEVITY 


In Earlier days, longevity was being considered first, before 
going into the other details of a horoscope. It serves two 
purposes - the first being to assess the yogas whether they are 
going to fructify and the second being to plan ones life, 
something akin to know the retirement date for future 
planning. 


The accuracy of longevity is supposed to be very high in Jaimini 
system. Sage Jaimini has introduced a number of Ayur-Dasas 
exclusively to calculate longevity not only for the native, but 
also for his close relatives (or Kith & Kin). 


However, in this chapter it is confined to calculate the span of 
life rather than going into accurate calculation of longevity. 


Life Span: 


The full life soan of a human being is considered to be 100 years 
by most of the astrological books. This full span has been 
divided into 3 categories namely, Alpayu, Madhyayu and 
Deerghayu. Thus- 


a. The span of Alpayu is - upto33 years 
b. The spanofMadhyayuis - from 33 years to 66 years 
c. ThespanofDeerghayuis - from 66 years to 100 years 


There are three methods to assess the life span. 
Method I: 
To assess the Longevity, comparison of the locations of the 


following should be examined - 


54 


a) Lagna Lord and Eighth Lord 
b) Lagna and Moon rasi 
c) Lagna and Hora Lagna 


a) The location of the Lagna Lord and the eighth Lord has 
a significant influence on the Longevity of the Native. 
Jaimini Sutras are very clear in spelling out the Criteria, 
which are detailed below. 


b) In the above, two factors are involved. (i). Lords and 
(ii). Rasis. 


Alpayu: 
° If both the factors are placed in sthira rasis or 


° If either one is in chara rasi and the other one is in 
dwiswabhava rasi. 


Madhyayu: 
: If both the factors are placed in dwiswabhava rasis or 


° lf either one is in chara and the other one is in sthira 
rasi. 


Deerghayu: 
If both the factors are placed in chara rasis or 


° lf either one is in sthira rasi and the other one is in 
dwiswabhava rasi. 


The assessment shall be made for all the three sets of factors. If 
two or three sets of factors conform to one type of the life span, 
then that shall be adopted. In case the 3 sets indicate three 
different type of ayurdayas, then the ayurdaya indicated by 
Lagna and Hora-lagnashall be adopted. 


However, when three different ayurdayas are indicated by the 
three sets and Moon is either in lagna or 7" house, then the 
ayurdaya indicated by Lagna and Moon shall be adopted. 


55 


Note: Since Jaimini uses 'Manda' for both Janma Lagna and 
also for Saturn, there are variations in interpretations of this 
sutra while determining the Longevity. Some scholars consider 
the rasis occupied by Moon and Saturn for application of the 
above rule. 

Savayava Hora-Lagna is chiefly used in assessing the span of 
life. The procedure to determine Savayava Hora Lagna has 
explained earlier in this book. 


Method II: 


Determine the stronger of 8th Lord from Lagna or 8th Lord from 
7" house. From Lagna if that Lord is in Kendra, it is 
Dheerghayu; if he is Panapara it is Madhyayu; and if he is in 
Apoklima, itis Alpaayu. 


Method ITI: 


Determine the stronger of 8th Lord from Atmakaraka or 8th 
Lord from 7" house from Atmakaraka. From Ak if that Lord is in 
Kendra, it is Dneerghayu; if he is Panapara it is Madhyayu; and 
ifhe is in Apoklima, it is Alpaayu. 

However, if Atmakaraka is placed in 9" house from lagna, then 
alpayu becomes deergayu or deergayu becomes alpayu. But 
madhyu remains same. It does not get altered. 


Now the assessment of life span shall be made from all the 
three methods. If two or three methods conform to one type of 
the life span, then that shall be adopted. In case the three 
methods indicate three different type of ayurdayas, then the 
ayurdaya indicated by the strongest of Lagna, Hora-lagna and 
Atmakaraka shall be adopted. 


Each span of life is known as 'Kakshya’'. In this context, 
reduction in kakshya means reduction of ayurdaya by one 
category - i.e., if the longevity is madhyayu, kakshya reduction 


56 


means it becomes alpayu. In the case of a native being 
categorized as alpayu, there cannot be kakshya reduction. In 
a similar way, kakshya increase means it becomes dheerghayu. 
The kakshya increase cannot be applied to a native already 
classified as dheerghayu. The longevity arrived by the above 
methods is subjected to the following corrections - 


Kakshya reduction: This is also known as 'kakshya bras’. 
Reduction of Kakshya can occur under the following conditions. 


When 8th Lord from Lagna or 8th Lord from 7th house 
joins or becomes Atmakaraka. 


When Atmakaraka or 7th from Atmakaraka is hemmed 
between malefics or malefics in trikonas. 


When Atmakaraka being a malefic and is debilitated or 
associated with malefic planets. 


When Lagna and the 7 house are hemmed between 
malefic or have malefic in Trikona from them. 


When Saturn is involved in determining the longevity - 
if he is debilitated or in enemy sign or subject to 
malefic aspect, there is reduction of kakshya. 
However, if he is in his own house or exalted then there 
is no reduction in kakshya. 


Kakshya increase: This is also known as 'kakshya vriddhi'. 
Increase of Kakshya can occur under the following conditions. 


When Jupiter is in Lagna or in 7th house and has no 
malific association. 


When Jupiter has benefics on either side of him or ina 
trikona from him. 


When Lagna and the 7tn house are hemmed in between 
benefics. | 


57 


When Atmakaraka and 7" from Atmakaraka are 
hemmed in between benefics. 


When the Benefics are posited present in Lagna or 7» 
house or in a trikona from them. 


When the Benefics are with Atmakaraka or in the 
trikonas from him. 


When the Atmakaraka being a benefic planet and is 
not debilitated. 


A number of Ayurdasas have been indicated in Jaimini sutras. 
Sthira dasa and Niryana Soola dasa are prominent among 
them. A brief description of them are given here. While 
assessing the time of death, planets designated as Brahma, 
Maheswara and Rudra play an important role. 


Brahma: For computing Sthira dasa and for timing of death, 
Brahma plays an important role. A planet becomes Brahma by 
having certain criteria. 


Ifthe lord of 8" from Atmakaraka is posited in 3° from 
Atmakaraka, then he becomes Brahma. 


Ascertain the stronger of Lagna or 7” house. 


Ascertain the the strongest of the lords of 6", 8" and 
12" from the stronger of the above. 


If thestrongest planet of the above is posited in an odd 
rasi within visible half (that is from the starting point of 
Lagna to the 7" house in anti-zodiac direction), then 
the planet becomes Brahma. 


If Saturn, Rahu or Ketu becomes eligible as Brahma by 
above rules, then that planet is called nominal 
Brahma. The real Brahma is the 6” planet from the 
nominal Brahma, the order of counting being Sun, 
Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn, Rahu 
and Ketu. 

58 


In case no planet is eligible to become Brahma by 
above rules, then a planet in 8" house from Lagna /AK 
is Brahma. 


If no planet is posited in 8" house, then the lord of 8" 
house becomes Brahma. 


If more than one planet becomes eligible to become 
Brahma select the planet having highest longitude. 


Even then, If more than one planet becomes eligible to 
become Brahma as identified above select the one 
having Rasi-Bala. 


Brahma plays an important role in sthira dasa and 
Brahma dasa. 


Maheswara: 


Lord of 8" house from Atmakaraka is Maheswara. 


Ifthe above planet is exalted or in his own house, then 
the stronger of 8" and 12" lords from Atmakaraka 
becomes Maheswara. 


If Rahu or Ketu join Atmakaraka or in the 8" house 
from Atmakaraka, then the 6” planet from Sun 
becomes Maheswara. 


If more than one planet becomes eligible to become 
Maheswara, then select the stronger one among them. 


Maheswara is death inflicting planet. 


The stronger of 8" and 2” lord from lagna becomes 
Rudra. 


The other planet, if aspected by malefic becomes 
supplementary or nominal Rudra. 


Rudra determines the extent of longevity. 


59 


Sthira Dasa: As the name indicates dasa periods are fixed for 
all the horoscopes, unlike in chara dasa. All the chara rasis, 
sthira rasis and dwiswabhava rasis have fixed periods of 7, 8 
and 9 years respectively. The first dasa starts from the rasi, 
where Brahma is posited and goes in regular Zodiac direction. 


Niryana Soola dasa: This dasa starts from lagna or 7" house, 
whichever is stronger. If starting dasa rasi is ODD, then the 
order of dasa is zodiac direction. On the other hand, If starting 
dasa rasi is EVEN, then the order of dasa is reverse to zodiac 
direction. Dasa period is fixed as 9 years for all rasis. 


Let us determine the matters discussed in this chapter for the 
standard horoscope. 


Indira Gandhi 
DOB:19-11-1917 


TOB:23:03 
POB:81 E52; 25 N28 
Died at 67 yrs. 


Method I: 
a. 
7 Lagna lord Moon is posited in Capricorn rasi - chara 
rasi. 


7 Eighth Lord Saturn is posited in Cancer - chara rasi. 
Hence, Deerghayu 


60 


° Lagna is Cancer - Chara rasi 

. Moon is in Capricorn - Chara rasi 
Hence, Deerghayu 

Cc. 

To find savayava hora lagna- 

Lagna is cancer - even rasi; Time of birth is night. 

, Duration of night hora - [(difference between Sunset 
time on 19t% and sun rise time on 20tn Nov) / 12] =( 13 
hrs, 17 mins /12)= 1 hr6mins. Or 1.1 hrs. 

. Birth time is 23 hrs 03 mins. 

: Time elapsed in night hora is (23.05-17.15)=5.9 hours 

: Add 12+1 to integer, which becomes 18 

‘ Janma Lagna is Cancer — even rasi. 

: The 18th hora from birth rasi in anti-zodiac direction 
will be Aquarius rasi. 

* The savayava hora lagna will be Aquarius Rasi. This is 
sthira rasi. 


The rasis of Lagna and savayava hora lagna are Chara and 
Sthira rasis respectively. 


Two combinations indicate Deerghayu for the above native 
in the First method. 


Method II: 


*  8tn Lord from Lagna lord is Saturn. 
* 8th Lord from 7tn house is Sun. 
* Among Saturn and Sun, Saturn is stronger. 
+ And that Saturn is in Kendra. 
Hence, Deerghayu 


61 


Method III: 
- 8" Lord from Atmakaraka is Saturn. 
- 8" Lord from 7™ house is Sun. 
@ Among Saturn and Sun, Saturn is stronger. 
@ And that Saturn is in Kendra. 
Hence, Deerghayu 


All the three methods suggest that the native is Deerghayu. 
Let us examine if the native suffers kakshya hrasva - 

+ For the above native, AK is Saturn. 

@ The 8" Lord from Lagna is Saturn. 

* Since Saturn is AK, there is Kakshya Hrasva 

* Also, the AK is between two malefics - Ke and Ma. 


Hence there is reduction in life span(Kakshya hras) 
and the Native becomes Madhyayu. 
Smt. Indira Ghandhi died at her 67" year. 


To determine Brahma- 
+ Between Lagna and 7” house, the stronger is Lagna, 
since AK is posited in it. 
- 6" lord is Jupiter, 8" lord is Saturn and 12" lord is 
Mercury. 
* None of the above three lords are posited in odd rasi 
in visible half of zodiac. 


So the Eighth Lord - Saturn - supposed to be 
Brahma. Since Saturn is not eligible to become 
Brahma, the 6” planet from it becomes Brahma. 
In this case Mars is Brahma. 


62 


To determine Maheswara - 
* Lord of eighth house from AK is Saturn. 
So Saturn is Maheswara for this Native. 
To determine Rudra - 


* Stronger of 8th and 2nq Lord from Lagna is Saturn itself, 
since it also AK 


So Saturn becomes Rudra for this native. 


63 


Miscellaneous 


The Katapayadi Sankhya 


The great men of the past have devised an easy 
method to derivate the numbers through a formula 
known as "Katapayadi Sankhya". This system has been 
used even in classical Karnatak Music to indicate the 
number of the Melakarta of any Raga. This formula is 
derived from the Sanskrit alphabets grouped as under: 


Kadi nava Ga | Gha | Gna Chha] Ja | Jha | Jna 
ane aa 

Tadi nava Tta Ddha | Nnah] Thai | Tthaj| Dna | Dhah 
ate a a rs 17 a q z i 

Padi pancha Pha Bha 

ofe qe + 4 

Yadhyashta Y La | Va | ShajShhal Sa | Ha 

unre a a a e| @ 3 


64 


E: | 


Na 


pe) 


The following is the method to determine the house number - 
Take the first two alphabets referred to and determine the 
corresponding numbers. 

Reverse the numbers and divide by 12. The reminder 


corresponds to the house number 

Eg. - Let's examine word 'Pita’. 

'Pa'is 1; 'tha’is 5; 'Pita'is 15 

Reversing the above is 51. 

Dividing by 12, reminder is 3 

The house to be referred is 3 from ascendant. 


Some more examples are indicated below: 


Take the word ' Bhagya' 

Bha is 4 

Yais1 

Bhagya is 41 . 

Reversing & dividing by 12- reminder is 2 
Word is 'mrutyu' 

mais5 

yais 1 

murtyuis 51 

Reversing & dividing by 12 - reminder is 3 


Sloka 33 of 1°' Adhyaya and 1*' pada clearly states that the 
Katapayadi system of number is applicable to only rasis and not 
for planets. 


Details of Adhyayas: 


It is said that Sage Jaimini has given out his thoughts in 
Eight Adhyayas, of which, only four Adhyayas are available and 
the others are missing. The topics deliberated in the different 
Adhyayas are as follows: 


ist Adhyaya- 
1st Chapter - Sangnaprakarana 
2nd chapter- Karakamsa 
3rd chapter - Effects of Arudhas 
Ath chapter - Effects of Upa-pada 


2nd Adhyaya - 
1st Chapter - Longevity 
2nd Chapter - Mrutya Nirnaya 
3rd Chapter- Dasa systems 
4th Chapter - Dasa / Antardasa 


3rd Adhyaya - 
1st Chapter - Raja Yoga 
2nd Chapter - Details of death 
3rd Chapter -Longevity 
4th Chapter - Details of birth 


4th Adhyaya - 


1st Chapter - Characterstics of native 


(Physical & Mental) 


2nd Chapter - Details of birth before delivery 


3rd Chapter - Stree Jataka 
Ath Chapter - Details of birth 


Commentaries on Jaimini Sutras: 


Many scholars have written Commentaries on the Sutras 
propounded by Sage Jaimini. Prominent among them are - 


1. Jaimini Sutra- Commentary - 
2. Jyotisha Phala Ratnamala-—s- 
3. Jyothishya sara sangraha - 


66 


Krishna Mishra 
Gottumukkala 
Raghava Bhattu 


4. Jaimini Sutrartha Prakashika -Akumalla Narasimha Suri 

5. Kalpalatha - Somanatha s/o Krishna 
Mishra 

6. Jataka Rajeeyam - Singayarya 

7. Gauthama Samihita - Gouthama 

8. Vanchanadeeyam - Vanchanatha 

9. Jaimini Sutram tika sahita - Venkatesha commentary 

10.Jaiminiya SutraVritti - Balakrishnanda Saraswathi 

11.Jaimini padyamruthadaahrutham - Durga Prasad Dwivedi 

12.Arudha Ratna Siddanjanamu_- Siddanatha 


13. Jaimini Sutras - Telugu Commentary - Lakshmanacharya. 
14. Jaimini Sutrartha Vyahya -Tamkara Nrusimha Daivagna 
15. Jaimini Jatakachandrika - Author not known 

16. Jaimini Subhodini - Author not known 


There are also some Commentaries by the authors of recent 
times on Jaimini Sutrams. Prominent among them are - 


a. B.Suryanarayana Rao ~- Jaimini Sutras 

b. PS. Sastry - Jaimini Sutram 

c. B.V.Raman - Studies in Jaimini astrology 

d. Sanjay Rath -Jaimini Maharshi's 
Upadesha Sutras 

e. lranganti Rangacharya - Jaimini Sutramritam 

f. | Madhura Krishna Murthy Sastry - 


Though he has not exclusively dealt with 
Jaimini Sutras, 2nd part of his Bruhat Parasara 
Hora Sastramu has dealt with Jaimini 
principles and some of them are very 
exhaustive. 


ANNEXURE 
a. Reason for having 7 chara karakas: 


Parasara and some of the commentators on Jaimini sutras 
compared Atmakaraka with a king. (BPHS:Karakaadhyaya:9- 
12). When Atma-karaka is compared to a king, who is capable 
of giving materialistic gains or physical troubles, then Rahu can 
be considered for Atmakaraka. In that case there are 8 
karakas, with the inclusion of Pitru karaka and order is i) 
Atmakaraka, ii) Amatya Karaka, iii) Bhatru Karaka, iv) Matru 
Karaka, v) PITRU Karaka, vi) Putra Karaka, vii) Gnati Karaka 
and vii) DARA Karaka. 


Jaimini compared Atmakaraka with the God and said he is 
capable of giving salvation or attachment to materialistic 
world. (JS:Adhyaya |:Pada I:Sutra 11). In this case Rahu 
cannot give salvation. 


Neither Parasara nor Jaimini has defined the exaltation or 
Moolatrikona points for Rahu, even though some of the 
commentators had given different rasis for exaltation of Rahu 
and Ketu. There is no uniform thinking on this matter. None of 
the commentators have mentioned about Moolatrikona house 
for these planets. As such, Rahu being Atmakaraka cannot fulfil 
the condition of being in exaltation or Moolatrikona. Even in 
shadbala, Rahu and Ketu are not considered. When the span of 
longevity is calculated, one of the parameters to be seen is 
Lagna lord and 8" lord. For Cancer ascendant, Lagna lord is 
Moon. For 8" lord, Saturn is being considered by all, but not 
Rahu. 


68 


When we observe the order of seven chara karakas, they follow 
the names of bhavas from lagna in order. Putra bhava follows 
Matru bhava. In eight chara karaka scheme, it gets disturbed 
since Pitru karaka follows Matru karaka, Which (Pitru Sthana) is 
9" or 10"Bhava in normal Parasara scheme. 


There is one more argument forwarded by the people following 
8 chara karakas. Since, Atmakaraka is followed by Amatya 
karaka, they equal Atmakaraka with a king only. Normally, in 
this method, while calculating Arudha for Aquarius both Saturn 
and Rahu are considered. Arudha is counted from the one who 
ever is strong among these two. Similarly for Scorpio also. 


However, majority of the astrologers do not consider Rahu and 
Ketu at all while plotting Arudhas. 


Hence, SEVEN karaktwas are only considered in this book. 
b. Rules followed in calculating Arudhas. 


Different methods are prevailing in calculation of Arudhas also. 
Normally, Arudha is placed as many rasis from the lord, as he is 
away from a Bhava, with an exception for kendras. 


Most of the people follow the exceptions mentioned by 
Parasara saying that the Arudha cannot fall in the same rasi, 
where its lord is posited or 7" house from there. They place the 
Arudha in the 10" place from the place it falls. In this method, 
when the Bhavadhipathi is in the same house or in 7 house 
from there off, then 10" house from that Bhava becomes 
Arudha. Similarly, when the Bhavadhipathi is in 4™ or 10" 
house, then 4" house from that Bhava becomes Arudha. 


69 


In another method people do not consider this exception. They 
plot the Arudha, wherever it falls as per the normal rule be it 
the same house or 7 house. 


Yet in another method, this exception is applied only for 7, 
house and 10" house. When the Bhavadhipathi is in a Bhava, 
then the same Bhava becomes Arudha for that Bhava. When 
the Bhavadhipathi is in 4" house, then 4" house itself is Arudha. 
When the Bhavadhipathi is in 7" house, then 10" house is 
Arudha. When the Bhavadhipathi is in 10" house, then 7 house 
is Arudha. 


Considering exceptions mentioned by Sage Parasara, the first 
method is only adopted in this book. 


c. Dual Lordship: 


Karakas are five types, depending upon the situation. While 
considering the strength between Saturn and Rahu or Mars and 
Ketu, some consider the planet among the two, who is 
associated with Atmakaraka to be strong. 


If Saturn or Mars happens to be Atmakaraka they are 
considerred first, otherwise the association or aspect of the lord 
of the sign(not Atmakaraka), in which it is placed or the 
association or aspect of Jupiter or Mercury is considered for 
determining the strength of the planet among the two. 


d. Karakamsa-Rasi: There is a considerable debate on this 
subject. The sign in which the Atmakaraka posited in Navamsa 
is normally referred as Karakamasa. However, the word 
Swamsa has been interpreted differently. Some take it as lagna 
of Navamsa kundali. Some refer it as the position occupied by 
Atmakaraka in Navamsa Kundaili. 

70 


e. Dasa Varshas: There are major differences while 
computing the years for a rasi. The rule says one year for each 
rasi from rasi to rasi lord. Normal practice is to count from rasi 
considering it as zero till the sign where lord of rasi is posited. If 
Mars is in Gemini, it is counted as 2 years for Aries sign. That is 
Aries to Taurus one year and from Taurus to Gemini the 2nd year. 
However, some count it as 3 years considering Aries as one, 
Taurus is two and Gemini as the 3 year (This has been found 
even among the earlier commentators also). In this system, 
there will be 12 years twice ( firsttime when the planet is in first 
house, being swakshetra and second time when the planet is in 
12th house), where as there will be no one year term atall. 


Another major difference is adding one year for exaltation and 
subtracting one year for debilitation. Some do not apply itatall. 


In this book adding of one year for exaltation and subtracting of 
one year for debilitation is followed except in two conditions. 


1. When Mercury is in Virgo, 12 years are taken. No 
addition of one year for exaltation. 

2. When Jupiter is in Capricorn, 1 year is taken. No 
subtraction of one yearfor debilitation. 


71 


EPILOGUE 


| am an ardent student of Jaimini. When | started teaching 
Jaimini in Bharathiya Vidya Bhavan at Bangalore, | had a 
problem - where to start. All the books available in the market 
are translations of Jaimini sutras. The order of chapters and 
quarters (adhyayas and Padas) are not systematically 
arranged in Jaimini Sutras. The chapters dealing with Jaimini 
system in Parasara Hora Sastra are arranged in a more 
systematic way than Jaimini Sutras 


To certain extent Sri B.V. Raman's book ‘Studies in Jaimini' had 
helped me. Study of various available works of Jaimini system 
made me to think and | realised that there is a necessity for a 
book on the subject for beginners. It resulted in an urge for 
writing a book. This work which is in a lucid form for beginners 
and for their easy understanding, is based on the principles laid 
down by Sage Parasara. 


| am only a student of astrology. | request the readers to 
pardon mefor mistakes, ifany, committed inadvertently. 


When | started working on the book, again | had a problem 
regarding each topic, because of different schools of thought. 
Be it 7 Chara Karakas or 8 Chara Karakas, Arudhas or for that 
matter each and every topic on the subject. It is because of the 
complicity of sutras. Each word has got different meanings and 
each translator had taken the meaning what he felt was most 
appropriate. Few points are given to understand it better. 


Chara karakas 
Arudhas 

Dual Lordship 
Karakamsa-Rasi 
Dasa Varshas 


and many more. 


The different schools of thought, is not only now, they were 
existing even among earlier commentators of about 300 - 600 
years ago. 


There is an urgent need NOW that all the scholars and 
others who have worked seriously on this subject come 
together and evolve a common mode to the extent 
possible. 


73 


