An Introduction to 


Jaimini System 


By: 
Shalini Dhasmana 


Publisher. 
All India Federation of Astrologers’ Societies® 


oar WD 3 


Contents 


IMTOQLICHON, 2 2.2.226 22.2: fant geet ees ac eceua Geek 1 
Jaimini System ataglance.............0..c ccc cece esteee need 3 
WS Kar ASih sc cescecssethess cteses’ cuadiahanesstied etebertersteebdeweaene 6 
NWNOWAQNAS: athe eee eek cae neh ane ee Ne a 10 
The Aspects - Jaimini Drishti...........00 eects 14 
Char. dasha). ociacien ational eit ae aed 17 


Computation of char Dasha ~J__18 
The Mahadasha order 


Computation of Char Dasha = Ibo... ccceeceeeeeeeeees 23 
The Antardasha Order 

Computation of Char Dasha IL...........ceeecceeceeeeeeseeeeeeeeeees 27 
Calculation of the dasha years 

JaiMINI YOQAS........ eee eee ee eeteeeeeeeecteneeeesneeeeesnaeeetearerenaes 34 
The Importance of Karkamsa........0.... cece eteeeteeetteeed Al 
Results of the Rashi Dashas............0...0.:ccceceeceteteeeteeeee! 45 
Some Critical Dashas.............0..:cccececeeceeeseeeteeeeteeeeneeeee! A7 
Prediction by Jaimini..................00..cceeecececeeeeeeeeeeeteteeteeeees 50 
Judgement of the Horoscope............00.000c cece 57 
Predictive hints from Jatak Tatva........0.....0000.eeeee eee! 60 
GIOSSANY 338 a etieek bsetebdeees hae binee tion a be ee 65 


This book is dedicated to 
All Students 


of 


Astrology 


Acknowledgements 


| am grateful to Shri K.N. Rao for Teaching me Jaimini Astrology and also for guiding 
me in the composition of this book. This book is my tribute to him. 


Col. A.K. Gaur has been extremely helpful and has given very valuable suggestions 
and guidance for this book. 1 am indebted to him. 


This book cannot be complete without my expressing my gratitude to my Vargottam 
teacher Sh. M. S. Mehta, who has taught me how to do Astrology in a methodical and 
positive way. 


| am also grateful to Shri Arun Bansal and Smt. Abha Bansal for giving me an 
oppurtunity to spread the knowledge of Astrology by teaching the students of A.I.RA.S. 


- Shalini Dhasmana 
Preface 


Most Astrologers are reluctant to use Jaimini System because they are under the 
impression that Jaimini is very difficult, and their fears are not totally unfounded. For this 
reason | am making an attempt to simplify this system, especially for the students of "All 
India federation of Astrologers’ Societies". If| am able to succeed in developing their interest 
in Jaimini, | shall feel rewarded. 


| will be mainly following the method developed by Shri K.N. Rao. At the same time, 
! will also be including principles given in other famous treatises of Jaimini Astrology. As | 
am just a child where Astrology is concerned, | am trying to avoid commenting on topics on 
which there are controversies among the Astrologers. | am grateful to Shri Arun Bansal, 
The President, and Smt Abha Bansal, The Treasurer, of All India federation of Astrologers 
Societies for giving me this opportunity to contribute my drop in the ocean of Astrology. 


Before starting this little book. | seek Blessings of my Divine Guru" Lord Dakshina 
Moorti’, with whose grace | have learnt Astrology. 


Dated 24.7.2002 
'Guru Poornima’ 


Shalini Dhasmana 


Introduction 


Second to 'PARASHAR; JAIMINI' is the greatest giant of Vedic Astrology. Parashar 
laid down the great principles of Vedic Astrology, while Jaimini went a step further and 
refined them. 


"JAIMINI UPDESH SUTRAS" were composed by Maharishi Jaimini. "SUTRAS" are 
very short sanskrit Stanzas with very vast and profound meaning. They are like a ball of 
thread. The more they are opened out, the more meaning they reveal, and they are so brief 
that they can even be memorised. Who was Jaimini Maharishi? No one knows for sure! 
Some learned men think that he was a disciple of the famous Maharishi Ved Vyas, who 
was Parashar's son. They also feel that he is the famous author of 'Poorva Mimansa’ and 
Vaimini Bharat’. Others feel that he is a later author who was very familiar with mantras. 
Who ever he was! his genius is reflected in the sutras he composed. These sutras are 
probably five thousand years old. They have stood the. test of time and time has turned 
them into beautiful Gems of prediction. The centuries have proved their authenticity and 
soundness. These sutras are 936 in number, spread over four Adhyayas. 


The Greatest principle of Jaimini System is that the Study of Lagna is not enough. 
Apart from, Studying the horoscope from the regular Lagna, Moon and Sun; one must study 
it in the light of karkamsa Lagna, Arudha, upapada, Hora lagna and the different karkas. In 
this way the personality of the Jatak is split up into its fundamentals and studied. 


Next come the karkatvas of the planets and houses. Parashar allotted permanent 
karkatvas to planets and houses. He also gave conditional karkatvas to the planets according 
to their lordship over different houses. Jaimini made prediction simpler, sharper and quicker 
by establishing limits of these karkatvas through the different char karaks. 


Another striking feature of Jaimini is, the Jaimini Drishti or Aspects. Every student of 
Astrology knows that both planets and Rashis affect us and yet we consider the aspects of 
only the planets! What about the Rashis ? This factor was taken into account by Jaimini. He 
established that the rashis also aspected each other and so the planets placed in them also 
cast their Aspects along with their respective rashis. These aspects are quite different form 
Parashari aspects. 


Apart from these main features, Jaimini has its own Yogas, Argalas and dashas. 
The most popular dasha for General use is Char dasha. Some of the other dashas as are 
Sthir dasha, Mandook dasha, Trikona dasha, Nirayan shoola dasha, Brahma dasha, Varnada 
dasha and Yogardha dasha. Some of them are conditional dashas while the others are 
used for a specific purpose. We shall be confining ourselves to Char dasha only in this 
book. 


On the face of it, it many appear that Jaimini contradicts Parashar. This is only a 
misconception. If studied in-depth, it becomes clear that Jaimini is only a refinement of 


1 
An Introduction to Jaimini System 


Parashari principles. 


Traditional Astrologers mostly use Jaimini for ‘Ayurdaya’ or assessment of longevity. 
The time is ripe for us to make an effort to revive this great system. So that it can be used 
for the entire reading of the horoscope and for bringing fineness or 'sookshmta' in prediction. 


The main purpose behind introducing Jaimini Astrology is to encourage the use of 
composite techniques of prediction. These have been adopted superbly by shri Mahadeva 
Pathak in his Jatak Tatva.He has used Jaimini principles alongside the Parashari principles 
to produce very good composite Techniques. 


In the end 1 would like to point out that most of the Astrological classics stress more 
on Negativity. As modem Astrologers we need to conduct researches to bring out the positive 
aspects of these principles and to modify and update them. 


2 An Introduction to Jaimini System 


1. Jaimini System at a Glance 


The structure of Jaimini has been briefly mentioned in the Introduction. Now | propose 
to deal with the subject in a systematic manner so that it becomes easy to learn and 
understand. 


The Karkas 
These are the special karkas governing the different portfolios of the Jatak's life. 


The seven planets namely Sun, Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus and Saturn 
become the Seven char karaks, depending on their degrees in the descending order. 


These are: 

Atmakarak — - Highest Degree 
Amatyakarak 

Bharati Karak 

Matri Karak 

Putra Karak 

Gnati Karak 


Darakarak ss - Lowest Degree 


Note: 

1. The degrees are considered between 0° to 30°. The signs are not counted. 
2. Rahu, Ketu are not normally included in the Karkas. « 

The Lagnas 

The different lagnas which become important are: 

- Karkamsa lagna (K.L) 

- Pada lagna (PL) (Arudha lagna) 

- Upa-Pada Lagna(U.P) 

- The Padas or Arudha for the twelve houses. 


The karkamsa lagna and the pada lagna are the most important Lagnas and they 


An Introduction to Jaimini System 3 


are used for all important predictions. The karkamsa is the navamsa rashi of the 
Atmakarak marked in the lagna chart (D-1). 


The pada lagna is as many rashis ahead of lagna lord, as he is from lagna. 


The method of computation of these lagnas with illustration and their Importance will be 
explained subsequently. 


THE ASPECTS (Drishti) 
Jaimini aspects are somewhat different from Parashari aspects. 
Parashari Aspects: 


Parashari aspects are aspects of planets. Every planet aspects the seventh place 
from where it is placed. Jupiter Aspects the fifth, seventh and ninth place from itself. Mars 
aspects the fourth, Seventh and eighth place from itself and Saturn Aspects the third Seventh 
and tenth place from itself. Rahu and Ketu are not supposed to have drishtis because they 
are chaya grahas. They affect the axis in which they are placed. Some Astrologers consider 
their aspects to be like Jupiter. 


Jaimini Aspects 


Jaimini claimed that Rashis (The groups of fixed stars) also have their aspects. (the 
planets which are placed in them cast their aspects along with the Rashis in which they are 
placed.) 


1. All Char Rashis ie. Aries, Cancer, Libra and Capricorn aspect the Sthir Rashis i.e. 
Taurus, Leo, Scorpio and Aquarius, except the ones next to themselves. 


2. All Sthir Rashis aspect Char Rashis, except the one next to themselves. 


3. All Dwiswabhava Rashis i.e. Gemini, Virgo, Sagittarius and Pisces aspect each other. 


Char Dasha 


In Jaimini System the dashas are Rashi based, and not nakshatra based, as in the 
Parashari system. 


Char dasha comprises of 12 Rashi dashas from Aries to Pisces. Each Mahadasha 
again has 12 Antardashas of the 12 Rashis. Each Antardasha further has 12 
Pratyantar dashas and so on. 


Because char dasha is a short dasha, going down to pratyantar level can give fairly 
close timing for evenis. 


The dashas move either in DIRECT order i.e. - Aries, Taurus , Gemini, or in the 


4 An Introduction to Jaimini System 


INDIRECT order, i.e. Taurus- Aries, Pisces. The Antar and the Pratyantar dashas 
more similarly. 


The period or the duration of the dashas is not fixed. It ranges between 1 and 12 
years. 


- The order or the sequence of the dasha and the years of the dashas are decided 
according to certain rules which will be explained and illustrated in the subsequent 
chapters. 


Yogas 
Jaimini has many yogas of different types. These are Dhana yogas, Raja Yogas and 
Arishta yogas, producing varied results. They are slightly different from the parashari yogas. 
EXCERCISE 
Q. 1. Which are the seven char karkas and what,do they signify? 
Q.2. Which are the most important lagnas for Jaimini ? 
Q.3. What is Karkamsa ? 
Q.4. What is the difference between Parashari and Jaimini aspects ? 
Q.5. Describe Char dasha briefly ? 


An Introduction to Jaimini System 


2. The Karkas 


Karkas are the Significator planets for different areas of the Jatak's life. There are 
two kinds of karkas. The Sthir karakas which are the permanent karkas and the Char karkas 
which are the conditional karakas according to the horoscope. For Prediction we combine 
both and then observe. 


The Sthir Karakas 

The stronger between Sun and Venus is for Father. ~ 

. The Stronger between Moon and Venus is for mother. 

. Mars is for younger brothers and sisters. 

Mercury is for maternal and paternal uncles and Aunts. (Chacha chachi, mama mami) 
Jupiter is for paternal Grand father( Dada). 

Venus is for husband or wife. 

Saturn is for sons. 


Ketu is for Patemal and maternal female grand parents (Dadi, Nani). 


© ON DAF WN = 


Rahu is for Paternal and maternal male grandparents (Dada, Nana) 
The Char Karkas 


These are decided according to the degrees of the planets. For this purpose, the 
Rashi is nat considered. The degree between 0° to 30° needs to be seen. 


Atma Karak(A.k) - is the planet with the highest degree. 

Amatya karak (Amk)- is the planet with the second highest degree. 
Bhrati Karak (B.k) is the planet with the third highest degree. 
Matrikarak (M.k)- is the planet who is the fourth in this order. 
Putrakarak (P.k)- is the planet who is the next in this order. 

Gnati Karak (G.k)- is the planet with the second lowest degree. 
Dara Karak (D.k)- is the planet with the lowest degree. 


If two or three planets in the horoscope are with the same degree, then we need to 
differentiate between the karakas according to the minutes and seconds. 


At this point one controversy needs do be mentioned. Some Astrologers favour the 


An Introduction to Jaimini System 


use of eight karkas instead of seven. They claim that there are eight karkas including 
Pitrukarka. Rahu becomes the eighth planet to be considered. Most astrologers However, 
favour the use of seven karkas. Parashar favours the use of combination of Char and Sthir 
karak instead of eight Karkas. 


Functions of the char karkas 
Atmakarak 


Atmakarak denotes SELF . He is equivalent to the lagna and the lagna lord. He is 
very important in Jaimini. He also represents the matters relating to the first house of the 
horoscope i.e. Health and constitution nature, general pattern of life and prosperity. 


Amatyakarak 


Amatyakarak shows the Jataks mind, Intellect, Financial and professional prospects 
Amatya karak is extremely important for career and finance and second house matters. 


Bhratikarak 


Represents the parakram or the self efforts, co-born and the third house matters. 
Sometimes bharati karak can even be seen for father. 


See Mars + Bk for brothers, and Sun + Bk for Father. 
Matrikarak 


Represents mother and matters relating to fourth house, school education, home 
vehicles and general happiness. 


Putrakarak 


Mainly represents children, education and the fifth house matters. He also becomes 
important for profession because of the connection between education and profession. 


Gnatikarak 


Represents cousins, debts, diseases and enemies. It covers the sixth house matters 
including the competitive spirit. 


Darakarak 


Darakarak mainly represents husband or wife and the seventh house matters. 


An introduction to Jaimini System 7 


The Karkas Lagna: 06°41" 


Sun 09°40' 
Example 1 am. > ee 
Ra Mars 21°08" 
DOB- 26.10.1947 K Mercury 28°11 


Jupiter 07°29" 


TOB- 20.00 Hrs. Is) Ve Venus 23°43' 
POB- Chi A Saturn 28° 13° 
; Chicago Pia ica Rahu 00°24" 
ida Ketu 00°24" 


Atmakarak (AK) -Satum Putra Karak(P.K.) Sun 
Amatya Karak (Amk) Mercury Gnati Karak (G.K.) — Jupiter 
Bhrati Karak (BK) Venus Dara Karak (D.K) Moon 
Matri Karak (MK) Mars 


Lagna:  29°42' 


Sun 12°12' 
Example 2 Moon 17°07' 
Mars 01°52' 


Mercury 29°58' 
Jupiter = 23°27' 
Venus 10°48" 
Saturn 01°46" 


DOB- 28.09.1929 
TOB- 22.44 Hrs. 


POB- Indore Rahu 49°56" 
Ketu 19°56' 

Atmakarak (AK) Mercury Putra Karak(P.K.) Venus 

Amatya Karak (Amk) — Jupiter Gnati Karak (G.K.) = Mars 

Bhrati Karak (BK) Moon Dara Karak (D.K) Saturn 

Matri Karak (MK) Sun 


8 An Introduction to Jaimini System 


EXCERCISE 


Q. 1. What is the difference between Char and Sthir Karakas ? 


Q.2. 
Q.3. 
Q.4. 
Q.5. 


Make Char Karkas for your own horoscope ? 
How can you see the father and brother both, from Bhratra karka ? 
Which is the most important karka of the chart ? and why ? 


On what basis will you decide the seven char karkas ? 


An Introduction to Jaimini System 


3. The Lagnas 


The use of different lagnas for studying the different aspects of the Jatak's personality 
is the greatest contribution of Jaimini Maharshi. 


These lagnas are: 

1. Karkamsa lagna. 

Pada lagna or lagnarudha or Arudha lagna. 
. Upapadalagna. 

The padas for the 12 houses. 

. Horalagna. 

. Varnada lagna. 

. Bhava lagna. 

. Ghatika lagna. 


oor A oO fF wD 


. Nisheka lagna. 

Of all these lagnas, the most important are: 

1. Karkamsa lagna. 

2. Pada lagna or lagnarudha or Arudha lagna. 

3. Upapada lagna. 

4. The padas forthe 12 houses. 

Note - We will restrict ourselves to these lagnas in this book. 
1. Karkamsa Lagna (Karkamsa) 


Is the most important of the lagnas. It is equivalent to the Janma lagna. In this regard, 
it becomes the starting point in Jaimini. 


How is karkamsa Identified 

STEPS 

1. Note who is the Atmakarak. 

2. In Navamsa see in which Rashi atmakarak is placed. 


3. Mark that Rashi in the lagna Kundali. That will be the karkamsa lagna. 


10 An Introduction to Jaimini System 


That rashi in navamsa is called SWAMSA. (€aT3T) 
Definition : Karkamsa is the navamsa Rashi of the Atmakarak in the lagna kundali. 
2. Pada Lagna 


Pada lagna or Lagnarudha or Arudha lagna, is the second most important lagna. 
Whatever can be seen from Karkamsa can also be seen from Pada lagna. 


How is Pada lagna Identified? 

Steps 

1. See how many house ahead of lagna is lagna lord placed. 

2. Countthat many houses ahead of lagna lord. That will be Pada lagna. 


Note- Counting will start from the house where lagna lord is placed, that house will 
be counted as 1. 


3. Upapada Lagna or Upapada 


Up-pada lagna has its own importance. It is mainly seen for matters relating to 
marriage. Itis also seen for a few other matters like children and Co-borns. 


How is Upa Pada Identified? 

Steps 

1. See how many house ahead of 12th house is 12th lord placed. 

2. Count that many houses ahead of 12th lord. That will be Upa Pada. 


Note-Counting will start from the house where lagna lord is placed, that house will be 
counted as‘. 


4. Arudha Padas of The 12 Houses 


These are calculated exactly like the Pada lagna and the up pada. These are arudha 
for the 12 houses. 


Arudha for- 

1st house - Arudha lagna or Pada Lagna. 
2nd house- Kosha Lagna 

3rd House- Bhrati Lagna. 

4th House- Sukha (Vahan) 


5th House- Mantra 


An Introduction to Jaimini System 11 


6th House - Ripu 

8th House-Mrityu 

9th House - Bhagya 
10th House - Rajya 
11th House- Labha 
12th House - Upa-pada. 


Example 1 Example 1 
The Laanas Arudha 


1. Karkamsa (KL) 


Atmakark is Saturn. In Navamsa he goes into Pisces Rashi, So Pisces becomes 
the Karkamsa. 


2. Pada Lagna (P.L) 

Lagna lord Mercury is placed five houses ahead of the lagna. Five houses ahead of 
mercury will be pada lagna. Five houses ahead of the lagna lord is Aquarius and so Aquarius 
becomes Pada Lagna. 

3. Upapada (U.P) 


12th House lord Venus is placed 6 houses ahead of 12th house. Six houses ahead 
of Venus is Pisces. So Pisces becomes Upa-Pada. 


12 An Introduction to Jaimini System 


4. The Padas 


The Padas (Arudha) for all 12 houses are calculated like pada lagna and up- pada. 


For example 1 and 2 these have been marked. 
Example 2 


The Lagnas 


Where the remaining lagnas are concerned, they are for specific purposes. Read- 
ers who are keen to learn about them can refer to more advanced books on Jaimini. 


EXCERCISE 


Q.1. (i) Howis Karkamsa identified ? 
(ii) How is pada lagna identified ? 
{iii) How is Upa-pada identified ? 


Q.2. How are the Arudha Padas calculated for the complete horoscope ? 


Q.3. Mark the three main lagnas in the following horoscope - 


Q.4. Mark the twelve Arudha for this horoscope. 


Q.5. What is the importance of Karkamsa, Pada lagna and Upa-Pada ? 


An Introduction to Jaimini System 13 


1. All char Rashis Aspect Sthir Rashis except the ones next to them. 
Aries - Aspects- Leo- Sco- Aqu. 

Cancer- Aspects - Sco- Aqu- Tau 

Libra - Aspects - Aqu- Tau- Leo 

Capricorn- Aspects- Tau - Leo - Sco. 

2. All Sthir Rashis Aspect char Rashis except the ones next to them. 
Taurus- Aspects - Cancer, Libra, Capricorn. 

Leo - Aspects- Libra, Capricorn, Aries. 

Scorpio - Aspects - Capricorn, Aries, Cancer 

Aquarius - Aspects - Aries, Cancer, Libra 

3. All Dwiswabhava Rashis Aspect each other. 

Gemini - Aspects - Vir, Sag, Pisc. 

Virgo - Aspects - Sag- Pisc- Gem. 

Sagittarius- Aspects- Pisc. - Gem- Vir. 

Pisces - Aspects- Gemini- Vir- Sag. 

Example 1 


These aspects give some indication as to how Analysis is done in Jaimini. 


1. Pada lagna in Aquarius; is Aspected by 
Cancer, Libra and Aries. Along with these 
Rashis, five karkas namely Saturn- A.K. Mars- 
MK, Mercury- Amk, Sun- PK and Venus- BK are 
also Aspecting Pada lagna. A high Pada is 
promised in the horoscope. 


This Horoscope Belongs to Hillary clinton, wife 
of Bill clinton. Surely, she got or very high pada 
in her life. 


An Introduction to Jaimini System 


15 


Q.1. 
Q.2. 
Q.3. 
Q.4. 
Q.5. 


16 


EXCERCISE 
What is the difference between Parashari aspects and Jaimini aspects ? 
How do the different Karkas aspect ? 
How do char rashis aspect ? Illustrate. 
How do sthir rashis aspect ? Illustrate. 


How do Dwiswabhava rashis aspect ? Illustrate. 


An Introduction to Jaimini System 


5. Char Dasha 


Jaimini Maharishi created many dashas. These dashas are dashas of the 12 Rashis 
and not of the planets. These dashas are either conditional or specific. Conditional dasha 
can be used when the horoscope fulfils certain conditions. Specific dashas are used for 
some specific purpose. 


Char Dasha is the most popular dasha of Jaimini. It can be used for general 
predictions. It is a short dasha and its duration varies between 1 year and 12 years. Since 
the Mahadasha is short, its Antardashas and pratyantar dashas are also very short. 
Consequently an event can be timed with great accuracy. Another advantage of this dasha 
is that, because it is a dasha of rashis and not of planets, one can successful apply it even 
if the birthtime is slightly inaccurate. 


The Dasha can move in two ways. Its sequence can be in the direct order or the 
indirect order. Direct order is when the Dasha moves directly i.e. Aries Taurus, Gemini - 
Anti clockwise. Indirect order is when the dasha moves. Indirectly. i.e. Taurus- Aries- 
Pisces and so on-clockwise. The number of years for the dasha of each rashi are not fixed. 
They have to be calculated according to a number of Rules. 


Though there are many Dashas of Jaimini, Char Dasha and Sthir Dasha are very 
important. Char Dasha and Trikona dasha help us to trace important events of the Jatak's 
life. If navamsa dasha is also used simultaneously, the event can be traced even better. 
Char dasha along with Niryan shoola Dasha helps in fixing longevity. 


The whole aim behind introducing the readers to Jaimini system is to encourage the 
use of composite Techniques in prediction. The Horoscope is first studied according to the 
parashari principles and parashari dashas. The next step is to refine the prediction by 
simultaneously using Jaimini principles and Jaimini dashas. When this technique is employed 
it will noticed that the same event is visible by both the methods and the Astrologer becomes 
very confident of his prediction. The Traditional Astrologers in whose families Jyotish was a 
‘Parampara’ used these composite techniques and this is the main reason why they gave 
very good predictions. 


EXCERCISE 
Q.1.__ What is the need to learn char dasha ? When Vimshottari dasha is so effective ? 
Q.2. What are the advantages of using char dasha ? 
Q3. What is the main difference between Vimshottari and char dasha ? 
Q.4. How does Char dasha progress ? 
Q.5. Which are some of the other dashas of Jaimini ? 


Q.6. What are composite techniques of prediction ? 


An Introduction to Jaimini System 17 


6. Computation of Char Dasha-l 
The Maha Dasha Order 


What will be the Sequence (order) of Mahadashas from the Jatak's Birth? 
The order of the Mahadashas will depend on the Rashi placed in the lagna. 
Rule 1 


Ifthe Rashi in lagna is Leo- Virgo- Libra- Aquarius- Pisces or Aries, then the Maha dasha 
order will be Direct. 


For Example : If the rashi in lagna is Leo, then the Mahadashas will more in Direct order. 
Leo - Dasha at Birth 


Virgo - 2nd Mahadasha 
Libra - 8rd Mahadasha 
Scorpio - 4th Mahadasha 
Sagittarius - 5th Mahadasha 
Capricorn - 6th Mahadasha 
Aquarius - 7th Mahadasha 
Pisces - 8th Mahadasha 
Aries - 9th Mahadasha 
Taurus - 10th Mahadasha 
Gemini - 11th Mahadasha 
Cancer - 12th Mahadasha 


After Cancer the Second cycle will start again with Leo. 

This method will be applicable also for Virgo, Libra, Aquarius, Pisces or Aries lagnas. 
This can be summarized as: 

If 5-6-7-11-12-1 Rashis are in Lagna the Mahadashas will move in DIRECT ORDER. 
RULE -2 


Ifthe Rashi in lagna is Taurus- Gemini- Cancer- Scorpio- Sagittarius or Capricorn 
then the Mahadasha will more in an INDIRECT ORDER. 


18 An Introduction to Jaimini System 


For Example: 


If the Rashi in lagna is Gemini- then for this Jatak, the order of Mahadashas will be 


INDIRECT. 

Gemini - 
Taurus 2 
Aries - 
Pisces - 
Aquarius Ss 
Capricorn - 
Sagittarius = - 
Scorpio - 
Libra - 
Virgo = 
Leo a 
Cancer - 


Dasha at Birth 
2nd Mahadasha 
3rd Mahadasha 
4th Mahadasha 
5th Mahadasha 
6th Mahadasha 
7th Mahadasha 
8th Mahadasha 
9th Mahadasha 
10th Mahadasha 
11th Mahadasha 
12th Mahadasha 


After Cancer dasha the Second cycle will start again from Gemini. 


This method is also applicable for Taurus, Cancer, Scorpio, Sagittarius and Capricorn 
Lagnas. This can be summarized as : 


If 2-3-4-8-9-10 Rashis are in Lagna, the Mahadashas will move in INDIRECT ORDER 


An Introduction to Jaimini System 19 


: Table 1 
Maha Dasha Order for Direct Lagna Group 


Leo- Virgo- —_Libra- Aquarius- Pisces- Aries 
5- 6- 7- 11- 12- 1 


Antardashas 
First 
Second 
Third 
Fourth 
Fifth 
Sixth 
Seventh 
Eighth 
Ninth 
Tenth 
Eleventh 
Twelfth 


= 
ine) 


1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 


ODN Ooh wWD 


— 
(7) 
ees 
- © 


Note - The numbers are the numbers of the Rashis. 


20 ‘An Introduction to Jaimini System 


Table 2 
Maha Dasha Order for Indirect Lagna Group 


Taurus- Gemini- Cancer- Scorpio- Sagittarius- Capricorn 
2- 3- 4- 8 : 9- 10 


Maha Dasha @ 


First 


= 
Oo 


Second 
Third 
Fourth 
Fifth 
Sixth 
Seventh 
Eighth 
Ninth 
Tenth 
Eleventh 
Twelfth 


= YN woFfFaana nN © 
= © WO Fa AN DO OO 
mw wo Ff a DN © CO 


ee ne 5 
o- KN 


Note - The numbers are the numbers of the Rashis. 
Antardashas 


Each Mahadasha will have twelve Antardashas of all the twelve Rashis. In Vimshottari 
Dasha, each planet has his own Mahadasha, and in his own Mahadasha, he has the Antar 
dashas of all the nine planets. Similarly, in char Dasha, each Rashi dasha has the 
Antardashas of all the twelve Rashis. 


Pratyantar Dashas 


Just like each Mahadasha has Antardashas of all the twelve Rashis, each antardasha 
has Pratyantar Dashas of all the Twelve Rashis. 


An Introduction to Jaimini System 21 


Q.1. 
Q.2. 
Q3. 
Q4, 
Q.5. 


22 


EXCERCISE 
How is the Mahadasha sequence decided for Char dasha ? Mention the rules. 
What is direct order and what is indirect order ? 
Show Mahadasha sequence for Cancer ascendant. 
Show the Mahadasha sequence for Pisces ascendant. 
(i) Fifth mahadasha for Taurus lagna horoscope will be of which rashi ? 
(ii) Tenth mahadasha for Aries Lagna horoscope will be of which rashi ? 
(iti) For virgo Lagna horoscope, which dasha will follow the Capricorn dasha ? 
( 


iv) For Scorpio lagna horoscope, which dasha will follow Sagittarius ? 


An Introduction to Jaimini System 


7. Computation of Char Dasha-Il 
The Antar Dasha Order 


Q. What will be the Sequence (order) of the Antardashas ? 


A. The sequence of the Antardashas will be exactly like the sequence of the 
Mahadashas. 


Rule 1 
The Antardashas of the Direct lagna Rashis will more in Direct Order. The 


Antardashas of Leo- Virgo- Libra- Aquarius- Pisces and Aries Rashis will more in Direct 
Order. 


Rule 2 


The Antardashas of the Indirect Lagna Rashis will more in an Indirect Order. 
Antardashas of Taurus- Gemini- Cancer- Scorpio- Sagitiarius- Capricorn will move in Indirect 
Order. 


Rule 3 
Each Mahadasha will have its over Antardasha in the End. 


Example 1: 
Leo Mahadasha 
(Direct Lagna Group) 
* The Antardashas will move in Direct Order. 
» Leo-Leo will come in the End. 
Leo- Mahadasha 
First-Ad - Virgo 
Second-Ad_ - Libra 
Third-Ad = - Scorpio 
Fourth-Ad _- Sagittarius 
Fifth-Ad -Capricorn 
Sixth- Ad - Aquarius 


An Introduction to Jaimini System 23 


Seventh- Ad - Pisces 
Eighth-Ad _ - Aries 
Ninth-Ad -Taurus 
Tenth-Ad = - Gemini 
Eleventh-Ad - Cancer 
Twelfth-Ad - Leo 

Example 2: 

Scorpio Mahadasha 


(Indirect lagna Group) 


* The Antardashas will move in Indirect order. 


* Scorpio- Scorpio will come in the End. 


Scorpio Mahadasha 
First-Ad - Libra 
Second-Ad_ - Virgo 
Third-Ad  - Leo 
Fourth-Ad - Cancer 
Fifth-Ad - Gemini 
Sixth-Ad — -Taurus 
Seventh- Ad - Aries 
Eighth-Ad _- Pisces 


Ninth-Ad - Aquarius 
Tenth-Ad = - Capricorn 
Eleventh-Ad - Sagittarius 


Twelfth-Ad - Scorpio 


24 


An Introduction to Jaimini System 


Table 3 
Antar Dasha Order for Direct Lagna Group 


Leo- Virgo- Libra- Aquarius-  Pisces- Aries 


5- 6- T- 11- 12- 1 
Antardashas] 


First 


4 


Second 
Third 
Fourth 
Fifth 
Sixth 


Seventh 


oO DOAnN Oa FF WwW DY 


Eighth 
Ninth 
Tenth 
Eleventh 
Twelfth 


oO wan na fk WwW NY 


oO an oarsrt OW DY 
4 
Oo 


= 
_ 


An Introduction to Jaimini System 25 


Table 4. 
Antar Dasha Order for Indirect Lagna Group 


Taurus- Gemini- Cancer- Scorpio- Sagittarius- Capricorn 
2- 3- 4- 8- 9- 10 


ear cat oe 
o -~ N 


9 
8 
7, 
6 
5 
4 
3 
2 


EXCERCISE 
Q. 1.+* How will the Antardasha in every Mahadasha move ? 
Q.2. What are the three rules for deciding the Antardasha order ? 
Q.3. For Taurus Ascendant: 
(i) Make the antardashas of the rashi in the second house. 
(ii) Make the antardashas of the rashi in the sixth house. 
Q.4. Antardashas ofthe following rashis will move directly or indirectly ? 
(i) Capricorn (ii) Pisces (iti) Cancer (iv) Virgo (v) Aquarius (vi) Aries 


26 An Introduction to Jaimini System 


8. Computation of Char Dasha-lll 
Calculation of The Dasha Years 


It has been mentioned earlier that the years of char dasha are not fixed, they have to 
be calculated according to certain rules. 


The twelve Rashis have been divided into two groups of six rashis each. One group 
is the Direct order or Visham pada group and the other group is the Indirect order or sampada 
group. 


The Vishampada (Direct order) groups has- Aries- Taurus- Gemini and Libra- 
Scorpio- Sagittarius 1-2-3-7-8-9 Rashis. 


The Sampada (Indirect order) group has - Cancer- Leo- Virgo and Capricorn- 
Aquarius- Pisces 4-5-6-10-11-12 - 


Direct 
4-2-3 
7-8-9 10-11-12 


Vishampada ’ Sampada 


Anticlockwise Clockwise 


Calculation of Dasha Years 

Steps 

1. Write down the dasha sequence as explained in chapter 5. 

2. Note which rashis belong to Direct group and which Rashis belong to the Indirect group. 


3. For the Direct order group Count from the rashi up to the lord of the rashi in the direct 
way. 


4, Forthe Indirect order group count from the rashi up to the lord of the rashi in the Indirect way. 
5. From the total deduct 1. The resultant number will be the years of the dasha. 


6. If lord of the rashis is in his own Rashi, give full 12 years. (Rashi of the Dasha under 
consideration) 


7. These rules apply to all Dashas except those of Scorpio and Aquarius, because Scorpio 
and Aquarius have two lords each. Scorpio's lords are Mars and Ketu and Aquarius' lords 
are Saturn and Rahu. For this reason, there are special rules for Scorpio and Aquarius. 


An Introduction to Jaimini System 27 


Scorpio (Direct Counting) Lords of Scorpio are Mars and Ketu. 


Rule 1- lf Mars is in Scorpio and Ketu is placed in some other rashi, then ignore Mars and 
count up to Scorpio Direct way. 


IfKetu is in Scorpio and Mars is elsewhere, then Ignore ketu and count up to Mars the direct 
way. 


Rule 2- Ifboth Mars and Ketu are in Scorpio then the dasha will be of 12 years. 


Rule 3- If both Mars and Ketu are not placed in Scorpio, then find out who is stronger of the 
wo and then count up to that planet. 


The planet which is placed with more number of planets will be stronger. 


Ifboth Mars and Ketu are placed with equal number of planets, then which ever planet's 
degree is higher is stronger. 


ifboth Mars and ketu are alone, then the planet with higher degree is stronger. 


Ifthey both have the same degree also then differentiate on the basis of minutes & 
seconds. 


Aquarius (Indirect Counting) 


Lords of Aquarius are Saturn and Rahu. The Calculation will be like Scorpio, however, 
there are two differences. 


1. The Lords will be Saturn and Rahu. 


2. The order for counting will be indirect. 


Sees 


Example 1 


28 An Introduction to Jaimini System 


Dasha order and Years 
The Rashi in Lagna is Gemini, So the Mahadashas will move in the Indirect order. 


[Rashi] Dashayears[ [Dasa Counting] 
Gemini Direct 
Taurus Direct 
Aries * Direct 
Pisces Indirect 


Aquarius upto Saturn Indirect 
Capricorn |. 7 Indirect 


Sagittarius = Direct 
Scorpio upto Mars Direct 
Libra Direct 
Virgo i Indirect 
Leo Indirect 
Cancer Indirect 


Example 1 - Char Dasha 


1947 DOB 
1951 
1956 
1959 
1963 
1970 
1976 
1987 
1995 
2007 
2018 
2028 
Cancer 2032 


Gemini 
Taurus 


OS 


oS a 


Aries 


@ 


Pisces 


SIS 


Aquarius 


Capricorn 
Sagittarius 
Scorpio 
Libra 
Virgo 

Leo 


—~ oo 
= =- 4 - 34 
32 hp &@ a © 
a YS za 


_ 


Note : The Dates indicates the ending of dasha. 


An Introduction to Jaimini System 


Example 2 


DOB 11.10.1942 
TOB 3 PM (War time Corrected) 
POB Allahabad 


Sun 24°22' 
Merc 23°39' -.R.D 
Ven 15°12'-C 


Mars 22°37' - D.C. 


Direct Order Indirect Order 


4-5-6 


10-11-12 


30 An Introduction to Jaimini System 


Example 2 
Dasha Order and Years 


Rashi in the lagna is Aquarius, so the Mahadashas will move in the Direct order. 


[Rashi__[Dashayears| [Dasha Counting 


Aquarius 
Pisces 


Aries 
Taurus 
Gemini 
Cancer 


Leo 

Virgo 
Libra 
Scorpio 
Sagittarius 
Capricorn 


Example 2 - Char Dasha 


a 


Aquarius 
Pisces 
Aries 
Taurus 
Gemini 


Cancer 
Leo 

Virgo 

Libra 
Scorpio 
Sagittarius 
Capricorn 


upto Satu Indirect 
Indirect 


Direct 

Direct 

Direct 
Indirect 
Indirect 

Lord placed in it Indirect 
= Direct 

up to Mars Direct 

- Direct 

= Indirect 


1942 DOB 


1951 
1959 
1964 
1968 
1971 
1980 
1991 
2003 
2014 
2024 
2031 
2039 


Note: The Dates indicates the ending of dasha. 


An Introduction to Jaimini System 


31 


Calculation of Antardasha 
The Period of Antardasha will be As many months as are the years of the Mahadasha. 


This rule will apply to all the 12 Antardashas. Each Rashis Antardasha calculation will 
not have to be calculated separately. 


For Example - 
MD = 12 Yrs Each AD- 1yr 
MD = 11 Yrs Each AD- 11 Month 
MD = 10 Yrs Each AD- 10 Month 
MD = 9 Yrs Each AD- 9Month 
MD = 8 Yrs EachAD- 8Month 
MD = _7 Yrs Each AD- 7 Month 


Calculation of Pratyantardasha 


Char Dasha is a short dasha: For this reason calculation up to Antardasha is enough. 
If pratyantar dasha needs to be calculated. Then convert the Antardasha period into days 
and Divide by 12 Rashis. The Resultant will be days and Hours of the Pratyantar Dasha. 


For Example 
+ If Antar Dasha is of 12 months. 

- 12 months converted into days = 3604. 

- 360 days divided by 12 Pds = 30 days, 1 PD will be of 30 days. 
+ If Antar Dasha is of 11 months. 

- 11 months converted into days = 330¢. 

- 3304 Divided by 12 PDS = 27.5%=272-12", 

1PD will be of 27¢ 12 hrs. 


Note : Normally 1 yr. is taken as 360 days for Dashas. 


32 An Introduction to Jaimini System 


Q.1 
Q.2 
Q.3 


Q.4 
Q.5 
Q.6 
Q7 
Q.8 


EXCERCISE 
Which are the Vishampada Rashi ? 
Which are the Sampada Rashis ? 


How is the counting done for Vishampada Rashis and how is it done for Sampada 
or Rashis ? 


How will you calculate the dasha years for each rashi ? 

Why are the dasha years for Scorpio and Aquarius calculated diffrently ? 
How are the Dasha years for Scorpio calculated ? 

How are the dasha years for Aquarius calculated ? 

Compute Char dasha for the following horoscope. 

DOB - 6-8-2002 TOB - 14.41 Hrs. POB - Delhi 


Sun 19°51' 
Jup 7°08' 
Mar 21°18' 


Q. 9 If Leo dasha is for 10 years, then what will be the duration of Capricorn Antardasha? 


An Introduction to Jaimini System 33 


9. Jaimini Yogas 


Yogas are combinations formed between planets and houses. These combinations 
form on the basis of position aspect conjunction and exchange. Yogas show the Jatak's 
Prarabdh, and they give their result when the appropriate dasha comes. 


There are many yogas mentioned in Jaimini Sutras, only a few important ones will 
be taken up here. 


(a) Raja Yogas are formed when the Atmakarak has a connection with some important 
karkas and some house lords. 


. Atma Karak with Amatyakarak. 

. Atma karak with Putrakarak. 

. Atma karak with Darakarak. 

. Atma karak with Fifth house Lord. 


RWwND = 


(b) Raja Yogas are also formed when the Amatya karak makes a connection with these 
karkas and house lords. 


1. Amatya karak with Putrakarak. 
2. Amatya karak with Darakarak. 
3. Amatya karak with Fifth house Lord. 


(c) Raja Yogas formed by Putrakarak. 


1. Putrakarak with fifth house lord. 
2. Putrakarak with Darakarak. 


(d) Connection between Darakarak and Fifth house lord also forms a Raja yoga. 
(e) Other Raja Yogas: 


1. If Janma Lagna, Hora lagna, Ghatika lagna. The navamsa or the Dreshkona lagnas 
have their first and seventh house aspected by one planet, it is a great Raja yoga. 

2. IfMoon and Venus are in mutual connection or are in third house from each other itis a 
Raja yoga and a Vahan (conveyances) yoga. 

3. IfMars Venus and Ketu are in mutual aspects or are in 3-11 from each other, then the 
person enjoys aristocratic comforts or Spirituality. 

4. IfMoon and Venus are in the fourth house from Atmakarak the person will have all the 
emblems of Royally. 


34 An Introduction to Jaimini System 


f. Adverse Yogas 
1. Daridra Yoga 


Ifthe Benefic planets are in sixth Eighth and twelfth houses and the malific planets 
are in kendras and trikonas the person is poor. 


2. Jaimini Kemadruma Yoga 


Ifthere are equal number of malifics in second and eighth houses from karkamsa 
lagna or from Janma lagna or from Arudha lagna it gives rise to kemadruma yoga. 


- This yoga results in the loss of partner, financial losses and steep fall in position. 
- If moon aspects these malifics, then the yoga becomes particularly strong. 


3. Yoga for Imprisonment 


If second and Twelfth, or if fifth and ninth, or if twelfth and sixth or if third and eleventh 
or if fourth and Tenth house from Lagna or Karkamsa Lagna have equal number of planets, 
the person gets imprisoned. 


Le. lf 2H-12H 
3H-11H 
4H-10H 
5H-09H 
6H-12H 
Have equal number of planets it becomes a yoga for imprisonment. 


If malifics aspect these planets then the punishment will be severe, but if benefics 
aspect them, then the punishment and the trouble may be temporary. 


An Introduction to Jaimini System 35 


36 


Examples of the Yogas 
Raja Yogas 
Example -1 
Hillary Clinton 


Navamsa 


SOK RON 


Amk Mercury is making a very good Raja yoga in the 
fifth house with fifth lord Venus and PK. Sun. 


Example -2 
Lata Mangeshkar 


Fifth lord and A.K. Mercury is placed in the fifth house; 
He is aspected by D.K. Sat, forming a Raja Yoga. 


An Introduction to Jaimini System 


Example -3 
Amitabh Bachchan 


Navamsa 


Amk Mercury who is fifth lord also, Ak Sun and P.K. 
Venus are forming a Raja yoga in the eighth house. 


Example -4 
Rajiv Gandhi 


Navamsa 


yee 


a 


1. Ak Mercury, Amk Venus, and P.K. and fifth lord- Jupi- 
ter are placed in Lagna forming a powerful Raja yoga. 


The lagna also happens to be Pada lagna and the ninth 
house from K.L. 


2. Moon and Venus are placed in lagna forming another 
powerful Raja Yoga in lagna. 


An Introduction to Jaimini System 37 


Example -5 
George Bush 


Navamsa 


1. Avery powerful Rajayoga is forming in the lagna involving A.K. Venus, Pk Mercury, 
and D.K. Saturn. 


2. The lagna is also the fifthhouse from Karkamsa and the ninth house from pada 
lagna. 


3. A beautiful parashari Gajakesari yoga is forming in the Seventh house from karkamsa 
- the house of public esteem and pada prapti. Jupiter is the Amk and Moon is the B.K. 
(In this manner we can combine Jaimini with parashari). 


These examples of five famous personalities prove the Authenticity of the Jaimini 
Raja yogas. 


Navamsa - The navamsa must be analysed, especially where the Rajayogas are concerned. 
Ifthe yoga is repeated and strengthened in navamsa, then the full result of the yoga will be 
got; otherwise full result will not be achieved. 


Yoga for Imprisonment 
Example -6 
Jawahar Ial Nehru 


SANA 
Fd 


ONO MEN 


There are equal number of planets in second and twelfth house from lagna. He 
went to Jail a number of times during India's. Struggle for Independance. 


38 An Introduction to Jaimini System 


Example -7 
Indira Gandhi 


There are equal number of planets in second 
and twelfth house. She got arrested in 
December 1998 for breach of privilege of 
parliament. But she did not reach the jail. 


Example -9 
Charles Sobhraj 


There are equal number of planets in third 
and eleventh house. Sobhraj is an interna- 
tionally famous criminal. He has been in and 
out of jail all throughout his life. 


Example -8 
Mahatma Gandhi 


There are equal number of planets in sec- 
ond and Twelfth house. Mahatma Gandhi 
went to Jail many times, and fora long time. 
Of course, he went for a noble cause, in 
India's struggle for independence. 


Example -10 
Harshad Mehta 


There are equal number of planets in sec- 
ond and Twelfth house. Harshad Mehta is the 
famous Mumbai Stock exchange broker who 
was responsible for the major stock market 
Scam. He was imprisoned and he died there 
recently. 


Note : For Jaimini yogas, Jaimini Aspects should normally be considered. However, if a 
very forceful combination is noticed which also has parashari aspects then parashari as- 


pect should also be taken into account. 


An Introduction to Jaimini System 


39 


40 


EXCERCISE 
How are yogas formed in a horoscope ? When do they give results ? 
Which are the ways in which Raj Yogas are formed in Jaimini system ? Give examples. 
When will the Raj yoga give full result and when will it not give the full result ? 
What is the Jaimini Kemadrum yoga ? 
Give one example of the yoga for imrisonment. 


How is Daridra yoga formed ? 


An Introduction to Jaimini System 


10. The Importance of Karkamsa 


Karkamsa (#IR@T3T) 

The rashi in which the Atmakarak is placed in the navamsa is called the Karkamsa 
Lagna in the Lagna Kundali, the same rashi in the Navamsa Kundali is called Swamsa. 
(€aret) 

Karkamsa is the starting point of Jaimini analysis. It is equivalent to the lagna of the 


horoscope. All ihe houses from K.L. are observed in the same manner as they are normally 
observed from the Janma Lagna. 


For Example 
Fifth house from K.L. will be seen for education and children and Seventh house 
from K.L. will be seen for marriage. 


The Rashi in which karkamsa falls gives some clue about the Jatak. 


Note : While interpreting these results, these points must be remembered. 


1. These results have to be applied liberally and not literally to the horoscopes. 

2. They have to be viewed in today's context according to the principle of Desh-kal-Patra. 

3. Most classical writers have laid more stress on Negativity, and as modern Astrologers 
we should find the positive side of these principles. 


Results of Different Rashis in Karkamsa 


Aries 
The Jatak is affected favourably or unfavorably by cats and rats and other similar animals. 
Whether the result will be favourable or unfavourable will depend upon the influences on 
the K.L. 


Taurus 

The Jatak is affected favourably or unfavourably by quadrupeds (the four legged 
animals). This can mean farming, dairying, food and hotel line, vehicles, automobile industry 
or luxury fields (lord of Taurus is Venus). On the other hand a person may suffer on account 
of four legged animals. 


Gemini 
The Jatak suffers on account of itches or skin ailments and corpulence. Or he may 
be a dermatologist or owner of slimming centres. He may be a singer or an intellectual. 


Cancer 
The Jatak is influenced by water and he suffers due to Leprosy. 


An Introduction to Jaimini System 4i 


Another sutra says that if Karkamsa falls in Cancer- the person is a trader. 
He may be a sailor, fisherman, producer of mineral water, exporter, or a traveller. 


Leo 

The Jatak is affected by beasts. People with karkamsa in Leo have also been noticed 
to have ups and downs in their lives, and falls from heights or from a high position, or have 
accidenis. But it also implies that they will also attain a high position. 


Virgo 
The results are like Gemini and the Jatak can suffer from itches and corpulence 
(weight) and he may suffer on account of fire or sparks of fire. 


Or He may even be a doctor treating skin diseases (dermatologist). 


Libra 
The Jatak's fortune is created by trade. 


The person can be a trader or a businessman. Today, it can also mean fields related 
to beauty, arts, television, films, vehicles etc. 


Scorpio 

The Jatak is affected by animals and reptiles who live in water and he is deprived of 
his mother's milk. 

The person may be susceptible to poisoning and he may have been reared on 
animal milk or powder milk or by a foster mother. 


Sagittarius 
The Jatak suffers on account of a fall from a horse or from a vehicle or from some 
height. (from a hilltop or rooftop). 


Dhanu is a kodanda Rashi (#s—punishment). When K_L is in this rashi the person 
suffers from a fall. The fall may be from a horse or from a conveyance or some high place 
like a tree ora hill or from stairs. The fall can also be from a high position in life. 


So, to fall from a height the person will first reach that height and then fall from it. 
Hence Dhanu signifies a rise and a fall. 


Capricorn 

The Jatak gets affected because of aquatic (watery) creatures, fierce birds, planets, 
meteors and evil spirits. He may get large wounds or incurable cancers or glandular, 
expansions or skin ailments. 


Capricorn is a rashi of change "Parivartan". There may be a lot of changes in the 
persons life. Whether they are for good or for bad, depends on the benefic or malefic 
associations of the K.L. 


42 An Introduction to Jaimini System 


Aquarius 

The Jatak builds Tanks, wells, gardens temples, Ashrams, Dharmshalas and other 
public facilities. 

Kumbha is the rashi ‘Amrit’, hence the person will have nobility, and his activity will 
be aimed towards helping the other fellow beings. 


On the other hand, if K.L. has malefic influence, the person may be just the opposite. 


Pisces 

The Jatak is inclined towards following the path of Dharma, aiming at the final 
emancipation (Ale). He will have good moral values and he will put them into practice, 
whether he is religious or not. He will have sacrificing nature. He may even take sanyas at 
some stage in his life. 

The horoscope must be viewed in totality, only then accuracy in prediction will be 
got. Karkamsa is showing the Jatak's tendencies. The result will depend on other factors in 
the horoscope also. Confirmation of these effects must be got from of the complete 
horoscope. 

Jaimini has praised Karkamsa in Libra, Aquarius and Pisces only. For the remaining 
rashis he has only given negative results. But we can try to find the positive results of the 
remaining nine rashis by observation and research. 


Results of Different planets in Karkamsa 


Sun 
If Sun is placed in the karkamsa the person is devoted to the service of the king. 


The person's occupation may be connected to the government or to public business. 


Moon and Venus 

If full moon (Benefic Moon) and Venus are placed in KL the person gets all kinds of 
enjoyments and his occupation is connected to learing, authorship etc. Moon and Venus 
together also form a rajayoga giving great wealth and luxury. 


Mars 
If Mars is placed in the K.L. then the person has a profession connected to chemicals, 
fire, metallurgy, factories or making of weapons or Defence services. 


Mercury 
If Mercury is placed in the K.L., the person becomes a trader or businessman, 
weaver or sculptor or an artist. It also gives him fame. 


Jupiter 
If Jupiter is placed in the K.L. the person is a scholar, a teacher, priest or someone 
performing the religious rites. He can also be an adviser or an Astrologer. 


An Introduction to Jaimini System 43 


Venus 

If Venus is placed in the K.L. the person becomes a government servant, political 
personage or an artist. He is attracted towards the opposite sex, and he retains his sexual 
vitality till an advanced age. 
Saturn 

If Saturn is placed in K.L. or is in Kendras from it, it is a combination for fame. The 
person may be in some famous business or a famous organisation. 
Rahu 


If Rahu is placed in the K.L. the person can become a doctor using poisonous 
medicines (Antibiotics). He can also be a druggist, a soldier, a dacoit or a thief. He can even 
be a manufacturer of metallic machinery, or electronics. 


Ketu 


If Ketu is in the K.L. the person can be in elephant trade, he can even be a poacher 
of elephants, or a thief. As Ketu also signifies sookshma yantra, the person can be a watch 
manufacturer or a watch dealer. (machines which show time) 


Where Rahu and Ketu are concerned, their Rashi lords (dispositors) must also be 
looked at, sometimes they give a better idea of the result. Ketu can also give spiritual 
inclination. 


EXCERCISE 
Q.1. What is the importance of Karkamsa in Jaimini Analysis ? 


Q.2 Which factors should be kept in mind while interpreting results of Karkamsa as 
given by Jaimini? 


Q.3  Karkamsa falling in which rashis has been praised by Jaimini ? 
Q.4 — IfSaturn is in KL. or in Kendras from it what kind of result can be expected ? 


Q.5 Where Rahu and Ketu are concerned how should their results be judged ? 


44 An Introduction to Jaimini System 


11. Results of the Rashi Dashas 


We are aware that when the Dasha of a planet operates, the natural tendencies of 
that planet his nature-comes into the jatak. For example - Ifa man's Mars Dasha is running, 
he becomes courageous, aggressive and full of drive. In the same manner, when the Dasha 
of a particular Rashi is in operation, the natural tendency of the Jatak becomes like that of 
the rashi. 


The pictorial symbol of the Rashi gives an idea of the result. The Significations of 
the Rashi lord, the Tatva and the mobility of the Rashi should also be considered. 


Dasha of: 


Aries 


* Makes the person Impressive (Tejasvi), full of Vigour and he moves ahead in life. 
* He can get diseases produced by heat. 


Taurus 

* The Symbol of Taurus is a bull - representing a vehicle today. There can be some 
incident related to a Vehicle. This can be purchase of a Vehicle or an accident involving 
one. Business can also take place. Diseases related to sex can also come up. 


Gemini 
* Social interaction grows. 
+ Skin diseases can affect the person. 


Cancer 
Sea Voyages, foreign travel and trade can take place. 


Leo 
The person becomes impressive - Tejasvi and isolated. 
There can be a great rise or a fall. 
Diseases of heat or diseases related to heart can come up. 


Virgo 
Business or writing is possible. 
Nervous complaints are possible. 


Libra 
+ Is one of the best dashas. The person gets all the luxuries and comforts and he is 
happy.(Sukhi) 


The Diseases can be related to sex. 


An Introduction to Jaimini System 45 


Scorpio 
Scorpions, snakes or poisoning can affect the person. 
In the case of politicians there can be some underhand scheming. 
There can be reaction to some injection, or poisoning due to some medicine. 


Sagittarius 
There can be a rise to or fall from position, or from a horse, or from height. 
Sudden accidents or illness can be there. 


Capricom 
Is a rashi of changes. Changes of all types can be expected. 
Diseases related to legs or joints or wind are possible. 


Aquarius 
Social Religious and Pious acts are undertaken. Nobility develops. 


Pisces 
The person becomes religious, introverted, and performs noble acts. 


EXCERCISE 
Q. 1 When the dasha of any rashi begins ? how does it affect the Jatak ? 
Q.2 Which is the best rashi dasha as per Jaimini ? 


Q,3 What is the peculiarcity Sagittarius and Leo dasha ? 


46 An Introduction to Jaimini System 


12. Some Critical Dashas 


lt is not uncommon to hear people say," We showed our horoscopes to so many 
Astrologers but none of them warned us about the sudden death of my husband”. It is the 
duty of the Astrologer to prepare the person for the approaching calamity or danger. 


In Jaimini there are some dashas which portened coming danger. If any of these 
dashas is noticed then the horoscope should be analysed carefully. Sometimes, instead of 
causing harm, these dasha can even give a noticable rise and prosperity. But that would 
depend on the indiviaual horoscope. 


1. Dasha of the Atmakarak 

Dasha of the rashi in which Atmakarak is placed is called the dasha of the Atmakarak. 
Normally dasha of the A.K. brings a fall. This fall can vary from a slight drop in position to a 
serious illness or to an accident or death or a violent death. It can also mean harm to a 
family member. In some cases it can even bestow power or a position on the person. What 
will happen will depend on the horosocpe. 


If Atmakarak is placed in Sagittarius or leo, then the fall is more likely. 


2. The Dasha of the Rashi of Karkamsa 
Dasha of the Rashi of Karkamsa can also bring similar adverse results. 


3. Dashas of the Rashis falling in the Sixth, eighth or twelfth rashi from Atmakarak or 
Karkamsa may also be troublesome. 


4. Dashas of Sagittarius or Leo 
. These dashas are well known for causing accidents, death or a fall from a height or 
from a Vehicle. However in some cases, they have been seen io give a big rise and prosperity. 


The final word regarding these dashas is that normally they produce adverse 
results and set backs. If the horoscope is showing positive indications then it can 
prove to be a period of rise. 


An Introduction to Jaimini System 47 


Examples of Critical Dashas 


|Example 1: An Air Force Pilot 


Example 2: A Builder 


This person was involved in an air 
crash between two Air force planes. 
Somehow his plane managed to land. He 
was very seriously injured. His Atlas Vertebra 
of the neck was broken and he was 
unconscious for 3-4 days. After that he 
remained in plaster for 4-5 months. But he 
recovered completely and continued flying for 
15 more years. Char dasha at the air crash 
was Capricorn-Aquarius- Gemini. Aquarius 
falls in the eighth house from Ak. Jupiter and 
Gemini in the twelfth house from him. So the 
dasha of eighth and twelfth rashi from A.K. 
caused this Accident. 


Example 3: Lata Mangeshkar 


This is the horoscope of a famous 
Delhi builder. He entered into a contract with 
an industrialist and he also invested several 
crores of rupees. For last 4 to 5 years, 
litigation is going on and his money is stuck. 
Dasha of Sagittarius is running. It has 
brought a big fall in his financial position. Itis 
also the dasha of the sixth rashi from A.K., 
showing litigation. 


Example 4: Indira Gandhi 


She received ‘Bharat Ratna’ award 
from the Government of india in 2001 in Leo- 
Sagittarius -A big rise in her position. (PI. 
refer to detailed study of Lata Mangeshkar's 
horoscope in Chapter 13). 


48 


» In the dasha of Sagittarius she lost her 
father in 1964. 


* In 1977 in Virgo-Cancer she lost elections. 
Cancer is the Dasha of the A.K. 


An Introduction to Jaimini System 


EXCERCISE 


Q. 1 Which dasha is called the dasha of the Atmakaraka ? and what can be expected in 


Q.2 
Q.3 
Q.4 
Q.5 
Q.6 


this dasha ? 

Which are the critical dashas in relation to the A.K. ? 

Which are the critical dashas in relation to Karkamsa ? 
What can be expected in the dashas of Sagittarius or Leo ? 
Finally what can be said about these dashas ? 


Give atleast two examples of critical dashas ? 


An Introduction to Jaimini System 49 


13. Prediction by Jaimini System 


The first prerequisite for prediction by Jaimini is proficiency in Parashari methods, 


because Jaimini is only a refinement and an advancement of Parashari system. 


The Horoscope must be first analysed by the well known Parashari principles. 
Coming next to Jaimini, it would be helpful if an systematic procedure is followed. 


Checklist 1 


1. 
2. 


Make Navamsa of the complete horoscope. 


Note the degrees of the planets and make a list of all the seven karkas excluding Rahu 
& Ketu. 

Notice which is the navamsa rashi of the Atmakarak. Mark that Rashi in the lagna chart 
(D-1) as Karkamsa Lagna (K.L) the same rashi in navamsa (D-9) will be marked Swamsa 
Lagna (S.L.). 

Make Pada Lagna (PL) or Arudha Lagna. 


5. Make Upa-pada lagna. (U.P) 
6. Mark the Important Arudha padas according to the chronological age, stage and the 


matters which are of concern to the Jatak. 


Compute char Dasha: 

a. Notice the mahadasha order whether it is Direct or Indirect. 

b. Calculate the years of the dasha. 

c. Special rules for Scorpio and Aquarius must be remembered. 

d. Work out the Antardashas of the present period and the ADS at some important 
events, for verification the horoscope. 


Caution 


* In computerised horoscopes, very often the computer makes a mistake at this point. 
So the Dasha periods of Scorpio and Aquarius must be checked manually. 

* It must be remembered that AD of each rashi is not calculated separately. The 
twelve ADS of any Rashi will be of equal duration. 


eg. If Maha dasha is of 6 years. All the 12 ADs of that Mahadasha will be of 6 months each. 


¢ It must also be remembered that the ADS will move in the Same Order as the 
Mahadasha. 
eg. MD of Pisces (Direct) ADS will move Ari-Tau-Gem and so on. 


8. Aspects (Drishtis) 
a. While doing Jaimini analysis Jaimini aspects must be considered, they must not be 


50 


confused with the Parashari aspects. 


. The Karkas cast their aspects along with the rashis in which they are placed. 


An Introduction to Jaimini System 


Checklist - 2 


The Promise 
It is of utmost importance to see what are the promises in the Horoscope. 


1. Notice which houses of the horoscope are becoming prominent. Those houses become 
the points of focus in the Horoscope. 


The house comes into prominence if - 

(a) Karkas are placed in it. 

(b) Karkas aspect it. 

(c) Ifthere is an exchange between lords of two houses (Rashi Parivartan). 
2. 


Notice if there are any favourable or unfavourable yogas (Raja Yogas, Dhanayogas or 
Anishta Yogas) present in the horoscope. 


3. Notice if there is concentration of planets in any special houses. 

4. Does the horoscope show any striking feature. 

By Combining 1 to 4, the promises in the horoscope will become clear. 
Checklist - 3 

Char Dasha Analysis 


Karkamsa lagna becomes the starting point in jaimini analysis, but Janma lagna 
also must be taken into account. 


1. Notice to which house from the K.L. the Rashi Dasha belongs. The first clue to the 
interpretation will be got from this. 


2. Now make the Rashi Dasha the lagna and notice the kendras and Trikonas from it. 
* See which karkas are placed in them and which karkas are aspecting them. 


Also see which houses from the Rashi dasha are getting activated because of the 
placement or the aspects of karkas. 


Similarly notice the trik bhavas from the Rashi Dasha. 


Strength or weakness of different houses from the rashi dasha will become obvious, 
and this will show the promise in the dasha. 


3. Next make the Antardasha the lagna, and do a similar analysis. 

Notice the connection between the MD and AD. 

5. Gombine the Promise in the horoscope with the promise of the dasha, keeping in mind 
the Significations of the houses, karkas and the Rashis involved. 

6. Notice the Dasha sequence ((H & ae Ve Heed sig) from birth. Itwill show - 
(i) The development of the jatak from the begining. 
(ti) What to expect from each successive dasha. 


7. Compare the result with the corresponding Vimshottari dasha. Most of the time, both 
the dashas will show the same result. 


- 


An Introduction to Jaimini System 51 


Example 


Lata Mangeshkar 
DOB- 28-09-1929 


TOB-22 hr 44 min. 59 sec. 
POB- Indore 
Lagna D-1 
Lagna: 29°43' 
Sun 12°12’ 
Moon 17°08' 
Mars 01°52" 


Mercury 29°58' 
Jupiter 23°27' 
Venus. 10°49! 
Satum § 01°47' 
Rahu- 19°58 
Ketu 19°58 


Navamsa D-9 Dasamsa_ D-10 


If the degrees of the lagna and the planets are also mentioned inside the 
horoscope then it becomes easier while analysing the horoscope. 


52 An Introduction to Jaimini System 


Lata Mangeshkar is the famous Indian singer, who hardly needs an introduction. 
She has dominated the music world for last 50 years. She has sung over 50,000 songs. 
She has the expertise to combine the classical with the modem music. She has even 
been acclaimed by the classical music gurus (ustads) Lata Mangeshkar is truly the 
Nightingale of India. Her life events are well known to all. 


Char Karkas Lagnas 
Ak - Mercury Karkamsa_ - Virgo 
Amk _ - Jupiter Pada Lagna - Scorpio 
Bk = - Moon Upa-Pada -Aries. 
Mk - Sun 
Pk - Venus 
Gk ~— - Mars 
Dk -Saturn 

Char Dasha 


(Indirect order) 
Balance of Dasha - Taurus «+ 3 years 
28-9-1932 - Taurus (3 yrs.) 
28-9-1938 - Aries (6 yrs.) 
28-9-1948 - Pisces (10 yrs.) 
28-9-1958 - Aquarius (10 yrs.) (Count up to Rahu) 
28-9-1959 - Capricorn (1 yr.) 
28-9-1964 - Sagittarius (5 yrs.) 
28-9-1975 - Scorpio (11 yrs.) (Count up to Mars and Ketu) 
28-9-1985 - Libra (10 yrs.) 
28-9-1997 - Virgo (12 yrs.) 
28-9-2008 - Leo (11 yrs.) 
28-9-2020 - Cancer (12 yrs.) 


The Main Events of Her Life 
Father's death - 1934 
First Success in - Singing Career-1949 
Film Fare Award - 1958 
Lata Mangeshkar - Medical Foundation - October-1989 
Padma Vibhushan - 1999 
Life time Achievement Award (London)- 2000 
Bharat Ratna - 2001. 


Verification of the Horoscope 


Before analysing any horoscope, one should verify the horoscope - i.e. check whether the 
horoscope seems to be correct or not. 


An Introduction to Jaimini System 53 


= 


. Brothers and Sisters : She has more sisters because the third house has Moon. 

2. Early death of father: Ninth’ house is normally taken for father. The ninth house is aspected 
by Mars and ninth lord is in the eighth house and is aspected by Rahu. Even if we take 
tenth house for father, its lord is Saturn, and similar result is observed. 

3. She is very famous : Saturn and Mercury are in Kendras from K.L. 

4. She has a sweet voice : Venus is in the Second house from Moon. 

5. No rivals could stand in front of her : Her sixth house has Vargottam Mars and Ketu. 


The Horoscope seems to be correct. 


Karkamsa is in Virgo 
The result should be like Gemini and Virgo - Some skin problem should be there - Her 
face is pock marked. Gemini can produce singers and Virgo can produce an artist. 


« Sun is placed in the KL - She has performed excellently at national and public level and 
got uccha pada - High Status- awards from the government. 


Mercury who is vargottam is also placed in the K.L.- She has got fame and she is an artist 
(Kalavati). 


The karkamsa becomes the focus of energy in the horoscope. Exhalted Vargottam 
Mercury who is the Atmakarak and the fifth lord, is placed there with matrikarak Sun, both 
are aspected by D.K. Saturn forming a powerful Rajayoga in the house of Poorva Punya. 
Karkamsa being so powerful, falls in eleventh house (Labha bhava) from Pada lagna, 
indicating great wealth - a Dhana yoga. 


Apart from Jaimini yogas, there are a number Parashari yogas also in the K.L. A 
great Dhanayoga is formed by the second and fifth lord Mercury and fourth lord Sun, and 
both are Aspected by yogakarak Saturn and eleventh lord Jupiter. A very good kendra trikona 
Rajayoga is forming there Aspected by Jupiter and Yoga Karak Saturn. Even a fine Budha 
Aditya yoga exists there with exhalted Mercury and Sun, Aspected by Jupiter. Fifth house 
from K.L. is getting the aspect of Venus and Jupiter showing classical art. Thus, the 
Karkamsa Rules the whole Horoscope. 


Pada Lagna 

Pada Lagna is in Scorpio. P.K. Venus is placed in the 10th house from P.L. showing 
a profession related to art and creativity, and genuine interest and talent in music. 

Upa Pada 


Upa Pada is in Aries. Rahu is placed in Upa pada and Ketu and Mars are in the 
Seventh from it . Showing weakness on the marriage front. Upa pada is aspected by PK. 
Venus. She was very keen to marry - Some one out of her own choice, at one time. The 
Seventh lord from upa pada - who is Venus is aspected by Rahu Ketu and Mars. This has 
denied her marriage. 


54 An Introduction to Jaimini System 


Life Events as Seen by Char Dasha 


1. First major Success in singing cancer (1949) 
Aquarius - Aries- Tenth house from Aries is aspected by Amk Jupiter and P.K. 
Venus. (Jaimini Aspects) giving her a professional break. 


2. Lata Mangeshkar Medical Foundation (October-1989) : 

Virgo - Aquarius -The Mahadasha was Virgo. It is the Dasha of K.L, and because 
A.K. is also placed in it, Virgo becomes the dasha of the Aimakarak. AK's dasha brings a 
fall. Competition to her developed to some extent, from other newer singers, But inspite of 
this, because she has a strong sixth house, no one could touch her. 


In October 1989 in- Virgo - Aquarius, Mangeshkar Family established Lata 
Mangeshkar medical Foundation. This act of charity took place because Amk Jupiter (noble) 
is placed in the ninth from Virgo dasha, he is aspected by G.K. Mars from the Sixth house 
of disease (the medical connection). Antardasha was of Aquarius, the rashi of Amrit, in 
which nobility develops and Social religious and pious acts are undertaken. Aquarius is also 
aspected by G.K. Mars showing the medical connection. 


3. Lifetime achievement Award (2000) 


Leo-Scorpio- Char dasha of Leo was running . Leo the royal sign is capable of 
giving a big rise or a fall. Leo is in her fourth house of Pada (position). The Tenth house from 
Leo is occupied by the Amk. Jupiter. 


Scorpio the antardasha is in the Seventh house of Pada Prapti (the house of Public 
Acclaim). Scorpio is aspected by Rahu from the twelfth house showing a foreign connection. 
This honour was conferred on her in London. 


4. Bharat Ratna - 2001) 


Leo- Sagittarius- This is one of the highest awards of the government of India. She 
received this awards in Leo Sagittarius. Leo is already qualified forthis purpose, Sagittarius 
is also capable of giving a rise or a fall. 


A.K. Mercury is placed in the Tenth from Sagittarius and eleventh house from 
Sagittarius is aspected by Amk. Jupiter. These factors are responsible for her receiving this 
prestigious honour. 


But Leo dasha is going to continue till 2008, and Lata Mangeshkar is already 72 
years old. The Nightigale of India may retire in this dasha. 


Conclusion 


In This manner analysis of the horoscope is carried out. 


An Introduction to Jaimini System 55 


Q.1 


56 


Strength of the houses is assessed. 
The yogas are noticed. These two factors show the promise in the horoscope. 
The dasha shows the time of fructification of the promise. 


The Gochar would show the final realisation (happening) of the event. (I have not 
shown the application of Gochar here.) 


EXCERCISE 
Take a known horoscope. 
List all the major events of the Jatak's life. 


Analyse the horoscope according to the method described. 


An Introduction to Jaimini System 


14. Judgement of the Horoscope 


1. General Analysis 

By now the method of analysing the horoscope must have already become clear to 
the readers. Forthe Students, My humble suggestion is that instead of trying to analyse the 
full and complete horoscope at the same time, it is better to be a little focused, and that 
focus should be according to the chronological age of the person concerned, and according 
to his problems and his questions. 


Procedure 


1. Assess the strength of the lagna. Unless there is strength is the lagna the person will 
riot reach anywhere in life no matter how many Raja yogas are there in his horoscope. 

2. Assess the strength of his fifth house - His Poorva punya. His life is basically governed 
by his Poorva punya. 

3. Assess the strength of his ninth house - what is his Bhagya? 

4, Examine his tenth house - How is his Karma in this life? 

The colour of the entire horoscope will start showing by the examination of these houses. 

5. Have a look at the trik bhavas namely, third, sixth eighth and Twelfth houses. What are 
his weaknesses? 

6. Which houses of the horoscope are becoming prominent because of placement of the 
planets and the aspects of other planets or because of an exchange? They become 
points of focus in the Horoscope. 


7. Notice the Dasha Sequence. 
8. Apply Transit of the slow moving planets, which are Saturn Jupiter Rahu and Ketu. 
9. To see a maiter related to any house, Apply the rule of 5. 
See : 
i. House concerned. ii. The house lord. 
iii. The karka iv. Dasha, Antardasha, Pratyantar dasha. 
v. Gochar 


House -Lord - Karak - Dasha- Gochar 
10. Apply the principle of Desh- Kal -Patra 


ll. Keep a positive outlook- Try to find the strength of the horoscope and not just its 
weaknesses. 


Il. Jaimini Analysis 

In the time period when Jaimini sutras were composed, the life was simple, and so 
the maharishi has given guidelines for judging the essentials of a man's life. Though thousands 
of years have passed, the basic life of the individual remains the same. So the sutras are 


An Introduction to Jaimini System 57 


applicable even today. However, with advancement in every sphere of life, research needs 
to be done to find combinations for these advancements. Eg. the computer is a new addition. 
Now, there are so many new areas even in the computer field, that we need to find 
combinations indicating those fields. 


A. The Karkamsa 

Jaimini has given a lot of importance to the Atmakarak planet, and the rashi occupied 
by him in the navamsa i.e. the Karkamsa. So karkamsa is of prime importance for Jaimini 
analysis. It is not that the Janma lagna has to be ignored. One should co-relate the two. 


Different houses from K.L. have to be seen for different matters. For example fifth 
from K.L. is seen for education and children, fourth from K.L. is seen for the house etc. 


This can be tabulated as: 


Planets in the specific house from Karkamsa The Areas they cover 


1 st and 2nd house Profession 

4th house House or residence 

9th house Religion and devotion 

7th house Nature of Spouse 

10th house The individual's general nature. 
3rd house His strength 

12th house Life after death 

1st, 2nd and 5th learning and scholarships. 


+ For matters related to longevity and death- Jaimini has created an entire system, which 
needs to be studied separately. 


B. Arudha or Pada Lagna 

For the person's wealth - Arudha or the pada lagna and the eleventh from it should 
be considered. Benefic influence is helpful and malefic influence is unhelpful, or it indicates 
wealth from unfair means. 


For Expenditure or losses 
Twelfth from Arudha shows expenditure . The planets in this house show the type of 
expenditure. 


For Co-borns (Brothers and Sisters) 
Third house from Pada lagna is seen. 


If Rahu is in the third or eleventh from the concerned lagna, the person is the eldest or 
youngest, atleast among his own sex. (A special observation of Sh. K. N. Rao) 


If Moon, Jupiter, Mercury and Mars are in the 3 or 11th from Arudha - there will be many 
good brothers and sisters. 


58 An Introduction to Jaimini System 


The Subtle difference between the Karkamsa and the Pada Lagna 
Both the Karkamsa and Pada lagna are very important for Jaimini analysis. 


Karkamsa is the Navamsa rashi of the Atmakarak. Atmakarak is considered to be 
the most important planet by Jaimini. It controls the Atma (314) the complete self of the 
Jatak. The complete self includes, the physical body, the soul, the Poorva karmas, the 
present karmas, and the Sookshma deha. So he signifies the Jatak completely at material 
level and at spiritual level. Hence karkamsa, which is the Navamsa of the Atmakarak, shows 
the refinement of the Jatak's karmas. His complete existence. It show the fae of the 
complete Jatak. [As mentioned in the Introduction, Jaimini has studied the Jatak's personality 
by splitting it down to its fundamentals]. 


Pada Lagna is the Arudha of the lagna. It shows the Jatak's outer personality the 
matters relating to his physical existence. i.e. Profession, promotion, wealth, spouse, brothers 
and sisters, health etc. All the material level matters. 


C. Upa - Pada 

The main contribution of upa pada is that, upa pada is helpful in determining the 
quality of the spouse. To some extent, matters relating to children and co-borns can also be 
seen from upa pada. 


Upa pada is also known as the Gauna (f") pada . If it is associated with benefics 
- there will be happiness in marriage. If it is associated with malefics then there may be 
unhappiness in marriage. If there is too much malefic influence on the upa pada or the 
second from it, there may be Denial of marriage or the person may renounce his family and 
take Sanyas. If there is even one strong benefic influence, then the situation will get saved. 


Similarly fifth house and ninth house from upa pada should be seen for children. 


the third house and the eleventh house from upa pada should be seen for brothers and 
sisters. 


In this manner after examining the relevant lagnas, planets and houses, Dasha and 
Gochar should be applied for a good reading of the horoscope. 


EXCERCISE 
Q.1 _Howis Karkamasa used in judgement of the horoscope ? 
Q.2 Whatall can be seen from Pada Lagna ? 


Q.3 In which ways can Upa Pada help in judgement of the horoscope ? 


An Introduction to Jaimini System 59 


15. Predictive Hints from Jatak Tatva 


Jatak Tatva has been composed by Shri Mahadeva Pathak of Ratlam about 125 
years ago. It is considered to be equivalent to the famous Astrological classics. With great 
expertise he has combined the Jaimini principles with the Parashari principles to come up 
with very befitting él) composite techniques of prediction. Some Jaimini hints for judging 
various aspects of the Jatak's horoscope are being given here from this treatise. 


Mahadeva Pathak gives a lot of importance to the AUNEKATOK planet and the navamsa 
Rashi occupied by him, which is the Karkamsa. 


sere yea miPRa: quad) eras Gaageyd | 
If the ninth house from karkamsa is occupied or aspected by a benefic planet the 


person is virtuous, truth loving and.devoted to his superiors and preceptors. If malefics 
occupy or aspect this ninth house, then it will not be so. 


Karkamsa 
1. Farater wok gaa | 


If Karkamsa falls in Aries, the person suffers because of rats and cats. 

2. FI AGMa: GATTI 
If Karkamsa falls in Taurus the person gets happiness through his quadupeds. (Four 
legged animals like bulls, cows and pets). It also implies Vehicles. 


3. areple) GTA | 
If Karkamsa falls in cancer, the person faces danger from water. 
4. feeiteareat gxaer:| 
If Karkamsa falls in Leo the person faces danger due to dogs and similar animals. 
5, waist ger: | 
If Karkamsa falls in Virgo the person faces danger due to sparks of fire. 
6. Genet aftrsrar | 
If Karkamsa falls in Libra, the person is a trader. SHR Ale HI AMR. Sey Tel ed 
7. OY Gea Gears AT TTA 
If Karkamsa falls in Sagittarius, then the person can die because of a fall from a vehicle 


or from a height or due to an accident. Apart from death it also means fall from a high 
position. 


60 An Introduction to Jaimini System 


8. Bist termite | 


If Karkamsa falls in Aquarius, the person builds tanks etc. He indulges in deeds which 
are for the benefit of others. 


9. Ary cart 


If Karkamsa falls in Pisces, then the person will be of a sacrifising nature. 
House (Residence) 


The planet placed in the fourth house from Karkamsa gives an idea about the Jatak’s 
house. 


1. Gases) orenreary | 
If moon and Venus are placed in the fourth house from Karkamsa, the person will own 
a large palatial house. ; 


2 qasmgeme orarear | 


If an exhalted planet is placed in the fourth house from Karkamsa, the person will owna 
palatial house. 


3. sergdereaail greareara | 
If Rahu and Saturn are placed in the fourth house from Karkamsa, the person will own 
a palatial house. 


4, barigien fescanper | 


IfKetu and Mars are placed in the fourth house from Karkamsa, the person's house will 
be made of bricks. 


5. tylsmivn’ © @rseqe | 
If Jupiter is placed in the Sukhsthan from Karkamsa the house will be made of wood. 
(There will be more woodwork in the house). 


6. Geared *Gorypeq | 


IfSun is placed in the Sukhsthan from Karkamsa the house will be made of grass and 
leaves. (Maybe thatched roof.) 


7. Weeal Be HATAGS YEAS: | 
\f Rahu and Sun are placed in the fourth house from Karkamsa, and they are aspected 
by only Mars, then the house can catch fire and get burnt. 


An Introduction to Jaimini System 61 


Education 


dy 


SAAR VATS * form | 
If Jupiter is placed in the second or the fifth house from Karkamsa the person will be a 
grammarian a linguist (one who knows many languages). 


2. ekerer qdencsoal strigra: | 
If Mercury and Jupiter are placed in the second or third house from Karkamsa, the 
person is proficient in Mimansa (Philosopher). 

3. steregarenared sia arfeees: | 
If Jupiter and Mars are in second, third and fifth house from Karkamsa, the person will 
be a logician (who can put forward Logical arguments). 

4. sees Gad Hapiray aPrag: | 
If Ketu and Jupiter are placed in the second third Orie house from Karkamsa, then the 
person is a mathematician. 

Wife 


1. qarMeqE wale Gai 


62 


If Jupiter and Moon are in the Seventh from K.L. the wife will be beautiful. 


. dered de aati Sh 


If Saturn is in the Seventh from K.L. the wife can be older than the person. 


. Sree A SH awe 


If Mars is in the Seventh from K.L. the wife will be physically handicapped. 


_ Sreteneneradl SAI 


If mercury is in the Seventh from K.L. the wife will be very intelligent and proficient in 
many types of arts. 


. MERE TEEAtepm | 


If Rahu is in the seventh from K.L. the lady of the house will be a widow. 


Note : In today's context, a widow can mean separated or divorced. 


| FRI AT ONG PAAASS' YAR Yare| 


If the seventh house lord or its Karaka is associated or aspected by benefics or is 
between benefics the wife will be good - Yet 


An Introduction to Jaimini System 


Profession 


ee ore 


Ifthe tenth house from K.L. is aspected by only Jupiter and Sun, the person will be a 
cowherd (Dairying, or dealing in milk products) 


9. steraftiy urttapRrarat | 


Ifthere are two malifics in the Sixth house from K_L then the person is an agriculturist. 


3. sergiona pftaai 


If Jupiter is the ninth from K.L. the person is an agriculturist. 


Note- The term Agriculturist and cowherd can cover a lot more than it did in the older days, 
because these areas have become specialised with time. 


4, St eft BH Geert: | 
If Sun and Venus Aspect the K.L., the person is in government service, or has good 
connections in the government. 


5. Heeeaergega * Taye: | 
If Tenth house from K.L. is accupied or aspected by mercury then the person will be in 
government sen/ice. 


a ait ae ute water) 


If Saturn is in the K.L. the person will make a living through a famous line of occupation. 
(A combination for Fame). 


7. straitye aragee ufsra: 
if Ketu is in the K.L and is aspected by only Venus then the person is a priest. 

8. HT Bey Gea gaa Age: | 
If the K.L. is aspected by Mercury, Moon and Venus and if Second lord is in the Seventh 
house then the person is a doctor. 


9. WyNrsatdsarrgd fascer: | 
If K.L is occupied by Sun and Rahu and they are associated with benefic and malefic 
planets then the person will be a doctor or Vaidya who is expert in poison cure. 


10. Ywrgey wad 
If K.L. is aspected by Venus and Moon the person is an alchemist (one who deals with 
chemicals). 


An Introduction to Jaimini System 63 


11. aR a ore area | 
If K.L. has Mercury or if Cancer Rashi is in the K.L., the person is a trader or a 
businessman. 


12, Maan ef 


Ifthe K.L. is associated with Sun the person will be in the government service. 


13 aft A ergaratatraal ‘afecitdt ay 
If Mars is placed in the K.L., the person works with metals and alloys, chemicals, makes 
weapons or works with fire like an Ironsmith or a goldsmith. 


Deity 


Ketu's association with any planet turns the person towards devotion. This is even 
more so, if ketu is in pisces. 


1. deaetas) Rrarae: | 

If Ketu and Sun are placed in the K.L. the person is a devotee of lord shiva. 
2. aedg dat Terra: | 

If{moon and Ketu are placed in the K.L. the person is a devotee of Gouri. 
3. aft aferoedl Rrevae: | 

If Ketu and Jupiter are placed in K.L. the person is a worshipper of lord Shiva. 
4. Bt filer gpl wet wae: | 

If Ketu and Venus are in the K.L., the person is devotee to goddess Lakshmi. 
5, BR Area feropre: | 

If Mercury and Saturn are in the K.L. the person worships lord Vishnu. 
6 at Grant teers | 

If Ketu and Mars are in K.L., the worships lord subhramanya. 
Note : 


1. Significations of the planets rashis and houses should be modernised, and liberalised. 


2. The shlokas are taken from 'Jatak Tatvam' of Daivagya 'Shri mahadeva Pathak’. 
Commentary by - Shri Shrinivas Pathak of Ratlam. 


64 An Introduction to Jaimini System 


16. Glossary 


Abbreviations 
AK. - Atmakarak 
Amk_~ - Amatyakarak 
Bk - Bhratikarak 
Vk - Matrikarak 
Pk - Putrakarak 
Gk - Gnatikarak 
Dk - Darakarak 
KL - Karakamsa Lagna 
PL - Pada lagna 
UP; Upa pada 
R - Retrograde 
MD - Mahadasha 
AD - Antardasha 
PD - Pratyantardasha 
IH - 1st House 
2H - 2nd house 12H-12th house etc. 
IL 7 Lagna Lord , 2L Second lord etc, 
DOB - Date of Birth 
TOB - Time of birth 
POB - Place of birth 
D-1 - Lagna Chart 
D9 - Navamsa 
D-10 - Dasamsa 
Terms used 
Jatak - The person whose horoscope is being considered 
Lagna - Ascendant 


V é 
An Introduction to Jaimini System 


66 


17. Bibliography 


‘Predicting Through Jaimini's Char Dasha' - By KM. Rao 


‘Predicting Through Karakamsa and Jaimini's Mandook Dasha' - By KM. Rao 


"The Nehru Dynasty" - By KM Rao 
‘Famous Women' - Guide and Editor KM Rao 
‘Scientific Hindu Astrology’ - ByP.S. Sastry. 
‘Jaimini Sutram’ - By P.S. Sastry. 
‘Jaimini Sutras' - By BSurya Narain Rao 
‘Studies in Jaimini Astrology' - By B.V. Raman 
‘Upadesh Sutras of Jaimini’ - By K.V. Abhyankar 
‘Prediction from Arudha' - By C.S, Patel 
Jatak Tatvam' of Daivagya Shri Mahadeva Pathak -Commentary by 
Sh. Shrinivas Pathak of Ratlam. 
‘Jatak Tatva' - by S.S. Sareen. 


An Introduction to Jaimini System 


