AN INSIGHT INTO 


Kuja Dosha 


MARITAL MALADIES AND REMEDIES 


MRIDULA TRIVEDI 
T. P. Trivedi, R. Asthana 


Preface 


‘An insight into Kuja Dosha’ is the outcome of our extensive research 
on one very intriguing and burning aspect of astrology, Mangli dosha, 
which has been so comprehensively dealt with in this prodigious work 
for the first time. This work incorporates dictums and sutras of yore, 
supplemented by observations from our experience and supported by 
more than hundred case studies. 

Placement of Mars in certain houses of horoscope is termed as Kuja 
dosha or Mangli dosha, which is feared with dreadful consequences. 
However, Kuja dosha or Mangli dosha has been very much fallaciously 
understood- not only by the common man but by few astrologers as well. 
The precocious knowledge of Mars dosha or its erroneous exceptions 
either prevented a betrothal from taking place or its dissolution later on. 
We are astonished to come across the works of several writers where 
the ‘Mars dosha‘ has either been consigned to insignificance or some 
works where it has been given the primacy it certainly doesn't deserve. 
There have been birth charts where Mars has had no inimical effects 
despite being posited in the 7" or the 8" house of the horoscope. On 
the contrary, domestic life has been found to be severely disturbed 
despite there being no Mars dosha. We do not wish to presume here that 
if Mars is posited in the 2°¢, 4", 7", 8" or the 12! house of the birth 
chart, will necessarily lead to disruption in marital life. Additionally, we 
aim to dispel the notion that if Mars is not posited in these situations, 
will cause a blissful marital life. 


Such a horrible picture of Mangli dosha is sometimes painted that 
boys and girls having Mangli dosha are classified as a different species 
altogether and the fact is mentioned prominently in matrimonial adver- 
tisements. Even those who do not generally subscribe to astrology give 
credence to this affliction under the belief that the dosha would cause 
hiccups in early stages of married life. Parents are so over-awed by 
Mangli dosha that they want to know first thing after the birth of their 
child, whether or not he or she is Mangli. It should be known that 
according to well-established principles of astrology 50% of the popu- 
lation is non-Mangli and the remaining 50% is Mangli. Then why is this 
segregation of Mangli population? Perhaps this has to do with the lack , 
of knowledge about the evil effects of Mangli dosha. 


viii PREFACE 


From the foregoing it is inferred that Mangli dosha is a conundrum, 
which requires ponderous and deep research. On the basis of analyses 
of several thousand cases we have tried to cogitate and have come to 
infer various facts that were either not known to us or were ignored by 
us. 

This is not appropriate to take it for granted that if the Mars, in the 
horoscope of the girl, occupies six specific houses, the boy should also 
have Mars placed in any of those specific houses where Kuja dosha is 
given rise to, and thus both will be Mangli and marital life will remain 
happy. A Mangli girl can marry a non-Mangli boy and vice versa under 
placement of Mars in specific signs. For example, if the boy is not Mangli 
and the girl has Mars in the 7” house in the sign of exaltation i. e. 
Capricom, the married life will be happy. Similarly a girl having Mars 
placed in Pisces in the 8" house or in Scorpio in the 4" house should 
not be treated as Mangli and Mangli boy may not be recommended to 
her. Generally the placement of Mars in Aquarius or Leo does not give 
rise to Kuja dosha. If in a girl's birth chart Mars occupies the 7 house 
in Scorpio, Aries or Capricorn it is presumed that Mars dosha does not 
exist. Texts say that if Mars is in Cancer or Aquarius it does not give 
rise to any ill effects. Even if it is expostulated that Mars does not give 
rise to any adverse effect in either of the situations enumerated above, 
wouldn't it be said that, if a husband were to decease or meet a severe 
accident in the above cases, that it is the consequence of Mars’ dosha. 
There are innumerable such rules and many such findings which reveal 
astonishing facts in reference to Kuja dosha. And all these have been 
explained in this work 'An insight into Kuja Dosha’. We are striving 
here to know the veracity of Mars's dosha and move in right direction. 
While examining horoscopes at the time of marriage, girl or groom's 
horoscopes should not be rejected merely on the ground of its being 
afflicted with Mars's dosha. 

The book has been divided in five sections named as under: 


1. Astro-dimensions of Mars 

2. Astrological dimensions of Kuja dosha 
3. Conjunctions of Mars with other planets 
4. Practical case studies 

5. Remedial measures. 

Mars is much mysterious and abstruse planet and it is quite arduous 
to understand the role of Mars in case of individuals. Same planet Mars 
in the horoscope can result into extremely happy conjugal life whereas 
similar placement of Mars, in the other, can disintegrate or devastate the 


PREFACE ix 


life of the native. A proper analysis of the Mars' position is therefore 
essential, for many factors are taken into account to predict the outcome. 
A common conviction about Mars being only a malefic, brutal, dreadful 
and injury -inducing planet would be forsaken by one, as he studies the 
results of Mars in all the 12 houses. As a benefic, Mars also bestows 
the native with the bliss of the life. The introduction to planet Mars and 
its general results in various houses of a birth chart have been explained 
in the first section 'Astro-dimensions of Mars' under chapters 'Mars in 
Zodiac' and 'General results of Mars’. 

The second section has been assigned to Kuja dosha and the 
adversities caused by it. In the chapter "Kuja dosha: defined and 
described' is presented a vivid account of formation of Kuja dosha and 
from where to count it. It is a general practice to reckon Mars dosha 
from the position of Moon or Venus as well, in addition to ascendant. 
Would it not give 18 such positions in a single horoscope liable to be 
labelled as Mars dosha. Such misgivings are tried to be set right. It is 
an important belief that if a Mangli girl is wedded to a Mangli groom, 
then the adverse effects of Kuja dosha are cancelled. It would not be 
digressing from the subject to add that 75% of Mars dosha is balanced 
by Saturn, Rahu and Ketu and 25% by the Sun. Planets, who are 
simultaneously responsible for cansing ill effects like Mars dosha, are 
also discussed in this chapter. In fact for matching of birth charts in 
respect of Kuja dosha proper weighment of dosha is essential. How can 
the Kuja dosha be measured numerically has been explained in this 
chapter. By following the same, proper suggestion for the match can be 
given in respect of happy married life when the intensity of Kuja dosha 
does not deviate more than 25 to 50%. 


Being familiar with Kuja dosha, we now proceed to learn about 
various adversities brought about by Mars in different placements 
causing dosha, in next chapter 'Adversities caused by Mars in 
different houses'. Under six sub-chapters evil effects due to Mars in 
six sensitive houses has been discussed. The final observations and our 
opinion are based on classical dictums, which are exhaustively dealt and 
explained in this chapter. Total outcome of Kuja dosha has been analysed 
most scientifically along with all available Sanskrit shlokas explaining 
Kuja dosha and its adversity. These observations are those, which sages 
have propounded, in their classical works, but the researches and 
practical observations have modified these sutras to a great extent. 

When and how Kuja dosha gets cancelled and its adversities are not 
at all experienced by the native, is one of the very important chapters 


x PREFACE 


of this work. Many persons in whose horoscope Kuja dosha has been 
cancelled, balanced or neutralized are leading very happy marital life. 
There are many misconceptions about the cancellation or neutralization 
of the Kuja dosha; even sages differ from each other. There is no end 
to confusion regarding the intensity of Kuja dosha and when it is really 
harmful and when there is no harm in spite of apparent Kuja dosha in 
the birth chart. We have devoted a complete chapter 'Annulment of 
Kuja dosha" on various factors when Kuja dosha becomes ineffective 
or invalidated. The views of many scholars and sages have been quoted 
and finally we have broached what we have actually experienced after 
the study of thousands of birth charts. 

Jupiter's benevolence has been accepted and acclaimed by one and 
all. It is believed that association or aspect of Jupiter neutralises the 
adversity caused by Mars. But as a result of our extensive research in 
the past 20 years we have confidently put forth the diametric view, as 
we have found that the effect of Jupiter on Mars does not cancel the 
Kuja dosha, on the contrary it enhances the intensity of the adversity. 
Kalyan Verma has mentioned a lot about the relationship of Mars and 
Jupiter in Saravali. Other classics have also been taken into consideration 
in favour of our observations. We found that Mars alone could not do 
that much harm to the native as it could do when associated or aspected 
by Jupiter. It either resulted in widowhood or divorce. This has been dealt 
exhaustively in the chapter ‘ Re-understanding Jupiter's role in Kuja 
dosha’. 


In case of females we have found that Mars in 5" house also plays 
a negative role and may also cause early widowhood. All those positions 
of Mars affecting the 7 or the 8" house are classified as Kuja dosha, 
then why not Mars in 5" from where it aspects the house of Saubhagya, 
be similarly grouped. A separate chapter has been written for the role 
of ‘Mars in the 5‘ house for females'. These findings are of great use. 
All scholars of astrology will do well to further examine these findings 
in practical horoscopes they come across. 

In the section of 'Conjunctions of Mars with other planets' we 
have dealt with the exact nature of effects rendered by Mars whenever 
it is conjoined with other planets. When does Mars remain under control 
and when its adversity gets heavily multiplied and when it takes a 
completely different shape. Conjunction of Mars with certain planets 
proves rather beneficial, instead of causing adversity. In this connection 
we have first explained the verdicts of sages as mentioned in various 
classical works followed by our research findings in respect to conjunc- 
tions of Mars. 


PREFACE xi 


The most significant and utilitarian part of this work is the section 
on ‘Practical case studies', which is based on vast research carried out 
during last thirty years to ferret out the precise results of Kuja dosha 
for different signs and for different ascendants. Placement of Mars in 
the 7° house for Aries ascendant will be absolutely different than that 
for Taurus or Libra ascendant. Mars in 8" house may cause early 
widowhood for few ascendants while for others same position of Mars 
may end up in separation, divorce or unhappy marital life. Still in few 
other cases similar Mars in 8" house may not do any harm as such, as 
in the case of Leo or Taurus. There was immense necessity for scrutiny 
on Mangli dosha as till now we base our predictions only on classical 
works. There are limitations of classical writings of sages and they have 
not mentioned what Mars will do if it is placed in particular house giving 
rise to Kuja dosha in all the twelve signs. Due to dearth of this 
comprehensive knowledge about the results of adversities caused by 
Kuja dosha many predictions miserably fail. We took as many horo- 
scopes as was practically possible for us for specific positions of Mars 
for a particular lagna e. g. For Aries ascendant, placement of Mars in 
the 7" house was required to be examined. We found that in about a 
dozen birth charts similar incidents have happened. The wife or husband 
died soon after marriage within a short span of time. This practical 
observation held good for all other such cases where Mars was placed 
in Libra in the 7" house. Similarly for all other ascendants same exercise 
was iterated and final observations have been given with confidence. As 
in all six sensitive houses, if joined by Mars, give rise to Kuja dosha. 
For twelve ascendants, there are thus 72 kinds of placements of Mars, 
which were required to be studied for exact happenings in respect to 
marital life. We have studied at least 10 cases of each ascendant before 
conjecturing any conclusion, and have illustrated one, two or three cases 
for each kind of Kuja dosha and given the particulars of other persons 
where similar observations were noted. 


It does not suffice to apprehend what kind of adversity one is going 
to face in life. The marriage may fail or the life partner may die soon 
or otherwise one may face innumerable miseries in marital life due to 
various kinds of placements of Mars. The wife may be disloyal or the 
husband may have a secret wife or otherwise there may be very loose 
moral values of either of the life partners giving pain to other one. It 
is quintessential to know the process of prevention of such adversity. 
How to get rid of such adverse probabilities? How can widowhood be 
saved or unhappy marital life is converted into happy conjugal life? This 


xii PREFACE 


all is exhaustively discussed in the section on "Remedial measures’. The 
remedies and preventive measures can be largely divided into six parts. 
. Remedies by election of auspicions Muhurt 

Remedy by Vishnu Pratima Vivah or Tulsi Vivah. 

Remedies by way of recitation of mantras, stotras and sooktas 

Remedy by observation of Vrat. 

Remedies by way of Donation or charity. 

Remedies by wearing suitable gemstone and using suitable colours 
Remedies as suggested in Lal Kitab have also been given for 
discerning readers, so that they can reap the best fruits of this work. 
Various such measures have been explained and rare stotras and vedic 
mantras have been propounded which have not been written in any such 
work previously. The chapter of Remedies is the soul of this book. 

Any research work of this magnitude requires inspiration from inside 
and affection from outside. Had such inspiration not come from someone 
whose divine beauty is beyond any description, the work of mortal being, 
would have never seen the light of the day. She was none but Goddess 
of learning, who fired our imagination when after the day's hard work, 
body was fatigued and refused to obey the orders of mind, it was her 
blessings and motivation that infused new life. 

Any organized work of this mammoth dimension would require the 
assistance of sincere co-workers. We thank all associates who have 
assisted in one or the other way during the process of research carried 
out in this work. Mr. Sunil Dhaka, Principal of Hewett Polytechnic has 
cooperated in the preliminary stage of this book in selection of concern- 
ing mantras from the classical works. 

Last but not the least, this work does not pretend to be complete 
in any sense of the term. It is none but an attempt to serve the interest 
of the common man. We are more than anybody else conscious of many 
defects and blemishes - which would have inadvertently crept in this 
book. For this we shall be extremely grateful to accept any suggestion 
from the valued readers. 


ANAYWNS 


Makar Sakranti Mridula Trivedi Rakesh Asthana 
Samavat 2062 TP. Trivedi C43A, Sector A, 


PREFACE 


Ch. 
Ch. 
; 13 


Ch. 
Ch. 


11 
1.2 


. 21 
2.2 
. 2.2.1 
222 
223 
2.2.4 
2.25 
. 2.2.6 
.23 


. 24 
20 


CONTENTS 


Section 1: 
ASTRO-DIMENSIONS OF MARS 
Mars in Zodiac 
General results of Mars 


Mars and Marriage: Various Combinations 


Section 2: 
ASTRO-DIMENSIONS OF KUJA DOSHA 
Kuja dosha: Defined and Described 
Adversities caused Due to Kuja Dosha 
Mars in The Acendant Lagna 
Mars in The Second House 
Mars in The Fourth House 
Mars in The Seventh House 
Mars in The Eighth House 
Mars in The Twelth House 


Mars in The Fifth House in a female Nativity: 
A research finding 


Annulment of Kuja Dosha 
Re-understanding Jupiter's role in Kuja dosha 


Section 3: 


Pages 


Vii-xii 


18 


103 
Wi 


CONJUNCTIONS OF MARS WITH OTHER PLANETS 


3.1 
32 


Mars-Saturn conjunction in various houses of KD 
Mars-Moon conjunction in various houses of KD 


136 
143 


xiv 


CONTENTS 


Ch. 3.3 Mars-Venus conjunction in various houses of KD 
Ch. 3.4 Mars-Mercury conjunction in various houses of KD 
Ch. 3.5 Mars-Sun conjunction in various houses of KD 
Ch. 3.6 Mars-Jupiter conjunction in various houses of KD 
Ch. 3.7 Mars-Nodes conjunction in various houses of KD 

Section 4: 

Research Findings on 
PRACTICAL CASE STUDIES 

Ch. 4.1 Kuja Dosha due to Mars in the Ascendent 
Ch. 42 Kuja Dosha due to Mars in the Second House 
Ch. 4.3 Kuja Dosha due to Mars in the Fourth House 
Ch. 44 Kuja Dosha due to Mars in the Seventh House 
Ch. 45 Kuja Dosha due to Mars in the Eighth House 
Ch. 4.6 Kuja Dosha due to Mars in theTwelth House 
Ch. 4.7 Observations summed- up 

Section 5: 

PREVENTIVE MEASURES FOR KUJA DOSHA 

Ch. 5.1 Selection of Suitable Muhurt 
Ch. 5.2 Vishnu Pratima Vivah 
Ch. 53 Remedies through Mantras 
Ch. 5.4 Remedies through Stotras 
Ch. 55 Mangal Kavach and Mangal Yantra 
Ch. 5.6 Vrat: A Remedy for Marital Maladies 
Ch. 5.7 Donation: A Noble deed, superb remedy indeed 
Ch. 5.8 Remedies through Gemstones 
Ch. 5.9 Using colours consonant with planets 
Ch. 5.10 Remedies for from 'LALKITAB’ 
CONCLUSION 


150 
156 
16) 
166 
17] 


177 
206 
238 
265 
314 
366 
392 


410 
42) 
424 
437 
479 
489 
510 
520 
547 
556 


572 


SECTION 1 
ASTRO-DIMENSIONS 
OF MARS 


“Science is organized knowledge.Wisdom is organized life." 


-Immanuel Kant 


CHAPTER 1.1 


MARS IN ZODIAC 


ars, known from ancfent times and named after the Roman god 
M: war, the red planet, is the fourth planet from the Sun and 

the most Earth-like planet in our solar system. It is also the 
second nearest planet to the Earth. At one and a half times the distance 
the Earth is from the Sun, Mars is the planet that has been most visited 
by human spacecraft and the only one that humans can realistically travel 
to in the near future. It is also the planet we know the most about after 
our own. It is about half the size of Earth and has a dry, rocky surface 
and a very thin atmosphere. 


SIZE 


Mars is about 4,222 miles (6790 km) in diameter. This is 53% (a little 
over half) of the diameter of the Earth. 


MASS AND GRAVITY 


Mars' mass is about 6.42 x 10% kg. This is /9th of the mass of the 
Earth. A 100-pound person on Mars would weigh 38 pounds. 


LENGTH OF A DAY AND YEAR ON MARS 


Each day on Mars takes 1.03 Earth days (24.6 hours). It has an orbital 
period equal to 687 earth days (it takes this long for Mars to orbit the 
Sun once) and a rotational period equal to 24hrs 37mins 22.6 sec’s. 
Therefore there are 668 Martian days in a Martian Year. 


MARS’ ORBIT 


Mars is 1.524 times farther from than the Sun than the Earth is. It 
averages 1416 million miles (227.9 million km) from the Sun. Its orbit 
is very elliptical; Mars has the highest orbital eccentricity of any planet 


4 AN INSIGHT INIO KUJA DOSHA 


in our Solar System except Pluto. Mars has a very eccentric orbit. Its 
orbit can vary from 249 million km to 207 million km. Because of this 
Mars also experiences the seasons. 


TEMPERATURE RANGE 


Mars' surface temperature averages -81 °F (-63 °C). The temperature 
ranges from a high of 68° F (20° C) to a low of ~220° F (-140° C). 
Mars is much colder than the Earth. 


MARS' MOONS 


Mars has 2 tiny moons in orbit, Phobos and Deimos. They were 
discovered in 1877, by Asaph Hall. These two moons are irregular in 
shape and are most likely asteroids caught by Mars's gravitational pull 
a long time ago and neither of them are large enough to become 
spherical. They both have synchronous rotations and always keep their 
same face toward Mars. 

Phobos orbits at a distance of less than 6000 km from the surface 
of Mars (9270 km from its centre) and is the largest of both with a 
maximum diameter equal to 27 km. It has been discovered that the moon 
is falling very slowly towards the planet at a rate of IO km a century. 
In which case it will collide with the planet's surface .after 40 million 
years. The surface is covered with craters. The moon has an orbital 
period of 7hrs 39mins. 

Deimos is even smaller than Phobos. Its longest diameter is equal 
to [5 km. It orbits at 23400 km from the planet's centre, and unlike 
Phobos is in a stable orbit. 


MARS' SURFACE (PLANETARY COMPOSITION) 


Crust and Surface: The surface of Mars is dry, rocky, mostly covered 
with iron-rich basaltic rock (an igneous rock). Mars has a thin crust, 
similar to Earth's. There are low-lying plains in the Northern Hemi- 
sphere, but the Southem Hemisphere is dotted with impact craters. The 
ground is frozen; this permafrost extends for several kilometres. 

Mantle: Silicate rock, probably hotter than the Earth's mantle at 
corresponding depths. 

Core: The core is probably iron and sulphides and may have a radius 
of 800-1500 miles (1,300-2,400 km). 

Olympus Mons, on Mars, is perhaps the largest volcano in the Solar 
System. It is I7 miles (27 km) tall and over 320 miles (520 km) across. 
It is thought to be extinct. 


MARS IN ZODIAC 5 


The north and south poles of Mars are covered by ice caps composed 
of frozen carbon dioxide and water. 

Scientists have long thought that there is no liquid water on the 
surface of Mars, but recent photos from Mars indicate that there might 
be some liquid water near the surface. The surface of Mars shows much 
evidence of the effects of ancient waterways upon the landscape; there 
are ancient, dry rivers and lakes complete with huge inflow and outflow 
channels. Scientists think that most of the water on Mars is frozen in 
the land (as permafrost) and frozen in the polar ice caps. 


ATMOSPHERE 


Mars has a very thin atmosphere. It consists of 95% carbon dioxide 
(C02), 3% nitrogen, and 16% argon (there is no oxygen). The atmo- 
spheric pressure is only a fraction of that on Earth (about 1% of Earth's 
atmospheric pressure at sea level), and it varies greatly throughout the 
year. 

There are large stores of frozen carbon dioxide at the north and south 
poles. During the warm season in each hemisphere, the polar cap partly 
melts, releasing carbon dioxide. During the cold season in each hemi- 
sphere, the polar cap partly freezes, capturing atmospheric carbon 
dioxide. 

Occasionally, there are clouds in Mars' atmosphere. Most of these 
clouds are composed of carbon dioxide ice crystals or, less frequently, 
of frozen water crystals. 

There are a lot of fine dust particles suspended tn Mars' atmosphere. 
These particles (which contain a lot of iron oxide) absorb blue light, so 
the sky appears to have little blue in it and is pink/yellow to butterscotch 
in colour. 


SPACECRAFT VISITS 


Mariner 4 was the first spacecraft to visit Mars (in 1965). Two Viking 
spacecrafts landed in 1976. Mars Pathfinder landed on Mars on July 4, 
1997, broadcasting photos. 


Planetary Data 


* Mass: 642 x 10° kg 

¢ Diameter: 6787 km 

¢ Density: (Water = 1) = 3.94 
« Mass: (Earth = 1) 0.107 

¢ Volume: (Earth = 1) = 0.15 


6 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


* Mean density: 3940 kg/m? 

e Escape velocity: 5000 m/sec 

¢ Average distance from Sun: 1524 AU 

¢ Rotation period: 1.026 Earth days 

¢ Revolution period (Sidereal period) 686.98 Earth days 

¢ Tilt of axis (in degrees): 25 

¢ Maximum surface temperature: 310 Kelvin 

¢ Minimum surface temperature: 150 Kelvin 

¢ Highest point on surface: Olympus Mons 

¢ Atmospheric components: 95% carbon dioxide, 3% nitrogen, !.6% 
argon 

e Surface materials: basaltic rock and altered materials 


Mythology of MANGAL - The Mars 


In Vedic mythology Mars appears to have been born of the Earth. 
SARVA, the archer, represents the element of Earth as the supporter of 
life. Sarva's wife VIKESI, the dishevelled, is the Earth goddess. The 
Puranic literature of ancient India declares that Angaraka, Mars is their 
son born of the Earth. Mars is further identified with the Kartikeya, the 
god of war. He is the son of the god Shiva, who was born without Shiva's 
union with a woman. Kartikeya was born with six heads as the six 
goddesses of the lunar constellation, Kritika, nurtured him, Kartikeya 
kills the seemingly invincible demon Taraka, and releases the Devas from 
Taraka's oppression. These myths depict valor, strength and courage, and 
most fittingly, the protective quality of Mars. Thus, Mars is known as 
the protector of dharma, the sacred path and purpose in life that each 
of us follows. 

In the Zodiac, ANGARAKA or MARS is regarded as a God of 
martial character, red in every aspect. Even the Romans held him as their 
Guru. In the Zodiac, He is the Lord of "Mesha" and "Vrischika". He 
stays 1 1/2 months in each Rasi taking 18 months to complete the cycle. 

A prayer to this planet frees one from debts, poverty and illness 
afflicting the skin. This graha bestows property and conveyance (Loco- 
motion). A prayer to Angaraka can restore loss of eyesight. Tuesdays 
are intended for the worship of Angaraka who loves the chanting of Sama 
Veda. If one observes the fast on Tuesday for 21 times, the unlucky 
influence of Tuesday (Mangal) can be got rid off. The legend that depict 
the influence of the worship of MANGAL goes as follows, and is 
narrated whenever a worship or offering is made to the deity. 

An old woman used to observe fast on every Tuesday. Her son was 


MARS IN ZODIAC if 


named Mangaliya. Mangal deity in disguise of a Brahmin came and 
asked her “1 am hungry. 1 shall prepare my own food but you plaster 
the ground with cow-dung." The woman said, "Today is a Tuesday; I 
do not plaster cow-dung on this day. I shall sprinkle water and you can 
prepare food." The Brahmin said, "1 shall only cook on a cow-dung 
plastered surface." The woman refused and said that she could do 
anything else except cow-dung plaster.” The Brahmin said, "Let your 
son lie upside down, | shall cook on his back." After some thought, the 
woman agreed to this and called her son. The disguised Brahmin lit the 
furnace on his back and cooked food. After cooking, the Brahmin asked 
the woman to call her son so that he could take the auspicious food. 
The woman, in grief, said why he cut jokes and that after your cooking 
on his back, he would have died. The Brahmin explained and insisted 
her to call the son. When insisted the woman called, and the son came 
running. The Brahmin said, "Old woman, your fast is successful. With 
kindness, your mind is also full of devotion and faith. May you be ever 
happy." The deity (Mangal) in disguise disappeared. 


Mars-the Planet of Legends 


Mars, the Roman god of war, has always had a special fascination for 
the mankind. Indeed, there is even a slight connection as both blood and 
Mars owe their red colour to iron and oxygen. 

Mars holds an important role in Indian astrology and its calculations. 
Mangal Dosha or the evil effects of Planet Mars influence the predictions 
in matters like Family, Happiness; Longevity of spouse and Fulfilment 
in sexual relation etc. 

The role of planet Mars in conjugal life is well established in all 
form of Astrology. How much damage Mars will do, depends on several 
other factors, like: the strength of the 7" Lord (the ruler of marriage). 
+ occupation of good or bad planets in the 7 house or their benefic/ 
malefic aspects + the strength of the planet giving longevity to the spouse 
etc. And yet, Mars is a strong regulator of marital harmony. According 
to Sage Parashar, the father of Vedic Astrology, Mars afflicted horoscope 
of a partner in a marriage gets nullified if the spouse also has a similar 
affliction i. e if the spouse is also a Manglik. Interestingly, the affliction 
may be strong in one case and rather mild in the other but nevertheless, 
if both are Mangliks (Mars afflicted horoscopes cases), the ill-effects of 
Mars do not become operative for either partner. 


de ee & & & 
eee OS 


wt oad qeafa ada wd a ak weal: | 
ane a2 wreath aaa qieafa // 
He, who sees Me (the universal self) present in all beings and all 


beings existing within Me, never looses sight of Me, and I never 
lose sight of him. 


CHAPTER 12 


GENERAL RESULTS OF MARS 


KUJA. These names in Sanskrit mean, "auspicious, burning coal, and 

e fair one". Mars is a malefic. He mles over the two sidereal signs 

of Aries and Scorpio. He is exalted in Capricorn and debilitated in the 
opposite sign of Cancer. Mars is often depicted as a god with a red body 
exemplifying the natural colour of the astronomical body in the sky. 

Like Surya, the Sun, Mars' most powerful position is“in the 10th 
Honse. He is a particularly beneficial planet for Cancer or Leo ascendants. 
His nature is PITTA, or fiery. His gem is red coral and his direction is 
south. Mars' day is Tuesday and he reaches full maturity at the age 28. 

Mars, considered to be the Commander-in-chief of the planetary 
army, is dry, hot, masculine and fiery planet. It is red in colour. It is 
significant of both constructive and destmctive energy. All matters 
related to strength and stamina, brother, courage, fire, land and related 
things, opposition and enemies, accident and injuries etc. are governed 
by Mars. Ambition, desire, impulse, passion, cruelty, brute and rash 
behaviour, temper, aggression, irritation, violence and animal behaviour 
all come under the domain of Mars. 

Kuja is a karaka, or indicator, of brother and siblings and landed 
property. It is also significator of valiance, enemies, scandals, opposi- 
tions, weapons, diseases, injuries; and also assertion, aggressiveness, 
soldiers and military endeavours, mechanical ability, engineers and 
surgeons, commanders and rulers, accidents, violence and war, ambition, 
strength, arguments and conflict, passion and desire. 

Generally, Mars is said to be a malefic planet. Under favourable 


n Vedic astrology Mars is known as MANGAL, ANGARAKA and 


GENERAL RESULTS OF MARS 9 


aspects or association virtues like self-confidence, good muscular 
strength, independent view, determination, good character, courage, 
strength, stamina, sharp wit, heroic deeds, endurance, activity, energetic 
and constructive attitude and fearlessness are bestowed on the native. 
However, afflicted and weak Mars exhibits rashness, frequent loss of 
temper, & violent, irritable, stuabbom, impulsive, and destructive tenden- 
cies. The native is fond of opposite sex and intoxicating things. 


Parts of the body 


Mars govems the extemal genital organs, left ear, face and head, nose, 
sense of taste, the muscular system, uterus, bladder, prostate gland, 
testicle, colon and rectum. It rules over the muscles and red bone marrow. 


Diseases 


Mars rules over disease of heat, such as all acute fevers, particularly with 
eruption like small pox, chicken pox, measles, mumps, typhoid, malaria. 
As Mars govems blood, bleeding disorders, menstrual disorders, cuts, 
wounds, boils, carbuncles, ulcers, lacerations, burns, headache, high 


blood pressure, pimples, tumor and eruption are also the diseases caused 
by Mars. 


Places 


Mars rules over fire and fireplace, kitchen, slaughter house, war field, 
engine rooms, boiler, mines and factories, police station, industrial area 
and smith shop etc. 


Profession 


Employment in military, police, paramilitary forces and soldiers, chemist, 
dentist, surgeons, butchers, barbers, sailors and carpenters are repre- 
sented by Mars. Those dealing in iron, steel, weapons of wars, tools, 
fire are also govemed by Mars. It also indicates dealers in Coral, Ruby, 
Red articles and also thief, dacoit, murderer etc. 


Products 


Tea and coffee (with Venus), ground nut, betel nut, mustards, brandy 
& whisky (with Moon), metallic oxides, pungent things, land, building, 
old material, knife, axe, sword, gun, iron and steel (with Saturn) etc are 
denoted by Mars. 

Before we commence our study of Kuja dosha i. e. the adversities, 
particularly on the aspect of marriage, due to placement of Mars in few 


10 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


sensitive houses, it would be pertinent to acquaint ourselves with the 
general effects of Mars in a birth chart in all the twelve houses, in brief. 


Mars In : First House 


If Mars is placed in the ascendant, the native is courageous, vigorous, 
valorous, strong & powerful having an instinct of domination over 
others. It also gives self-confidence, vitality, enterprise and independent 
and ambitious temperament. Mars in ascendant gives youthful appear- 
ance. The native would appear younger than his age. On the other side, 
the afflicted Mars may also give aggressive, irritable, headstrong, rash, 
impatient, quarrelsome and hard-hearted nature. There may be problems 
in chest & vulnerability to high fever, problems of blood diseases, skin 
ailment and myopic vision. Such natives should always take due 
precautions, as they are likely to have accident resulting in injury 
particularly on head. Early part of life in childhood may not be happy. 
Any trouble to mother is also indicated. In absence of any favorable 
combination or aspect the marital life of the native will not be happy as 
this position of Mars lends its direct aspect on the 7” house. 


Mars In : Second House 


The 2™ house of the horoscope signifies financial prosperity, accumu- 
lation & savings, speech, vision and family in general. If Mars is placed 
in the second house, the native earns money through his own efforts, 
hard work and endeavors, and he tends to be over generous and 
extravagant. Though he may be a good conversationalist, his speech at 
times may be harsh. The native is full of energy and activity and due 
to this he is able to overcome the impediments in the path of his progress. 

As this Mars is placed 8" from the 7 house it adversely affects 
the health of the wife or the husband. The wife may suffer from 
menstrual problems, obstetric problems i.e. any complaint related with 
pregnancy and childbirth may be there. Any operation may have to be 
undertaken for the birth of child or any other abdominal or gynecological 
problem. In case of men, disease of skin, blood, eye and teeth may be 
there. Loss of hearing and premature loss of teeth in advancing age is 
likely. Frequent injuries, cuts and burns are also possible. 

The native may suffer losses during the transaction of older or 
inherited properties and purchase of new one. Placement of Mars in the 
2" house as a lord of 4" ur the IO” house is likely to cause financial 
loss to the parents during the childhood of the individual. Mars in 2" 
house is also considered an adverse placement for the happy married 


GENERAL RESULTS OF MARS Jl 


life. In case of heavy affliction it may also bring about separation and 
divorce. If Mars in 2"! house is afflicted the native may not be able to 
accumulate money because of heavy losses and uncontrolled expenditure 
resulting into many troubles and disputes over finances. In such cases 
hasty decisions and speculation should be avoided. 


Mars In : Third House 


The third house chiefly rules over brothers or sister and relatives, 
courage, capacity and effort and the will power or determination. It also 
governs throat and ear. The position of Mars in the 3" house is not 
auspicious for one's relation with his co-born, particularly brothers. 
Quarrels and disputes, which may sometimes turn violent, with close 
relatives, are likely. The native is brave, active, energetic, courageous, 
idealistic, enthusiastic, learned and determined. He should try to control 
his reckless and rash attitude which may otherwise cause him set backs. 
Caution during travel] is always required as proneness to accidents during 
travel and journey is there. 

The native remains anxious and worried due to family misunder- 
standings though the sense of independence and desire for supremacy 
and his inflated ego may be contributory factor in dispute. Ear defects 
to the extent of partial or complete loss of hearing or disease of throat 
may trouble durmg the adverse vibration of planets. Suicidal thoughts 
may also haunt him if the affliction of 3 house is heavy. However, if 
Mars is placed in own, friendly or exaltation sign the adversities are 
modified to a large extent. The native is either eldest or the youngest 
among co-boms. 


Mars In : Fourth House 


The fourth house is related to mother, her health and prosperity, native's 
home and domestic environment, landed or immovable properties, 
conveyances and movable assets, all permanent possessions and inher- 
itance descending by the family lineage, & school and college education. 
It also shows gains to maternal uncle, prosperity and profession of the 
spouse, etc. Placement of Mars in the 4" house is generally an 
inauspicious combination. If the Mars is situated in its own sign or the 
sign ruled by Sun or Jupiter the relation with his mother will be cordial 
and native will enjoy the affection and protective association of mother 
in childhood. But if Mars is placed in inimical sign the individual will be 
deprived of happiness from the side of mother or there may be 
maladjustment between mother and his spouse. Family dispute and 


12 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


quarrels with mother may also be a cause of worry. This may somewhat 
disturb the married life too. Mars in the 4" house gives the individual 
force, energy and enterprise and makes them bold, dashing and able to 
fight out adverse situations and professional or personal enemies. Such 
individuals love discipline and loyalty. They are generous, helpful and 
accommodating, efficient and successful leaders in army or paramilitary 
forces. There natives are liked and favored by persons in high positions 
of powers and when a strong Mars is in the 4!" house the individual 
himself comes to wield the position of power. The native is lucky in the 
matter of property. Though he may receive property in legacy still he 
tends to acquire and create his own property too. The Mars in the 4" 
house gives injuries to the head due to any accident or fall from height. 
Ailment of the heart and disturbance in circulatory system are likely. 
Disturbances in digestion and hyperacidity may also be there. Therefore 
these natives should chart out their life style so as to avoid the troubles 
of heart and blood pressure. The native enjoys the comfort of vehicle 
and good conveyances even from childhood. However, his vehicle may 
require repair more often than normal. 


Mars Iu : Fifth House 


The 5" house is the house of progeny, emotions, feelings, intelligence 
and all material and physical pleasure, faith and respect of god, interest 
and capability in management & administration, inclination in specula- 
tion and love affairs. The placement of Mars in the 5" house is adverse 
for wife, friends and children. It causes abortions. Dangerous childbirth 
may be predicted in female's chart. Being the significator of progeny 
Mars in the 5" house also rules the menstrual cycle, uterus and other 
related organs of the body. Disturbances in menstrual cycle, repeated 
abortions, still birth, diseases of uterus, fallopian tubes, ovaries and 
infertility may be there and some of these may require surgical 
intervention due to Mars in the 5" house. Adverse position of Mars and 
its association with Satum or Rahu can also cause carcinoma of uterus 
and ovaries. It can also give bum, cut, or wound in the area below navel. 

Mars in the 5" house gives bad temper & annoyance. The native 
is disturbed in thoughts and is unhappy. Such natives having Mars in 
5" are generally good in administration and hard taskmasters. They 
themselves have a flavor for discipline and direction and they prefer the 
same attributes in their colleagues or associates. They respect their elders 
and teachers and have fluctuating faith in god. Mars in the 5" house 
also makes backbiters and mischief mongers particularly if Gemini, 


GENERAL RESULTS OF MARS 13 


Sagittarius or Pisces sign falls in 5" house. This is adverse disposition 
for females as far as conjugal bliss is concerned. 


Mars In : Sixth House 


The 6" house in birth chart is known as house of sickness. It signifies 
diseases, enemies, accidents, debt, mother's brother etc. Placement of 
Mars in the 6" house is generally good. The native overpowers his 
enemies and is fearless, daring, dashing and courageous. The native 
enjoys good health and physical strength, resistance and immunity to 
disease. He will be victorious and successful in politics. He has good 
digestive power. He is wealthy but there is heavy expenditure of money. 
However afflicted Mars would give fever and inflammation. When Mars 
is afflicted the native will have many accidents and injuries, losses and 
troubles through workers and trouble through enemies. The cause of 
death would depend upon the afflicting planet. Relation of native with 
matemal uncle or aunt would not be smooth. 

Mars in the 6" house sometimes indicates theft, dacoity or robbery 
with violence. These natives rise to the position of power by their own 
efforts and endeavors particularly when Sun is also favorable (3,10,11,6). 
The native has also a religious bent of mind and respects the elders of 
the family. If afflicted, it gives rise to constant abdominal complaints or 
ulcers in the intestine. Blood disorders and muscular ailments may also 
be there. This is an adverse disposition for debts and repayment of loans 
due to considerable losses. 


Mars In : Seventh House 


The 7" house rules over marriage, marital happiness, spouse, desire and 
passion, and all those with whom the native transacts in any manner. 
This position of Mars is adverse for all the matters relating to marriage 
and married life. Mars in 7" certainly damages and destroys the marriage 
and married life of the native. As the native is quarrelsome and fault 
finding in nature there is always dispute, disharmony, clashes, tensions 
and mal-adjustment between the two partners. There may be cases of 
beating, torture, violence and injury at the hand of spouse. These 
circumstances and differences between the couple, including the pressure 
from the parents, may lead to separation and ultimately divorce. Some- 
time the marital life as such is peaceful and harmonious but due to the 
evil effects of Mars it is cut short by fatal accident or suicide. These 
evils, however, may be reduced to a large extent by proper matching of 
the horoscopes of the couple at the time of marriage. Mars also confers 


14 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


a great amount of sexual passion thus resulting into love affairs or 
matriage at an early age. This position indicates an extra-marital affair 
too. The native indulges in extra marital relationship, which is also 
adversely affected by the Mars in the 7™ house. Placement of Mars in 
the 7" house is also bad for contracts and partnerships. The native is 
a hard bargainer in business transactions. Such natives are good fighters 
but not shrewd strategist. Skin ailments, headache, tuberculosis, injuries 
to head, diseases related with blood or genital organs, blood pressure 
are likely. Extreme anger of the native is also harmful. In case of men 
having Mars in the 7" house, woman is the cause of main worry. 


Mars In : Eighth House 


The 8" house is also known as the house of death. Thus it deals with 
the longevity of the native, nature of death, in addition to legacies, gifts 
and unearned wealth, obstacles and impediments. 

When Mars occupies the 8" house in the birth chart, it indicates the 
sudden or violent unnatural death of the native. If Mars is in fiery sign 
the death may be due to accident; if in earthy sign the death may be 
due to acute illness. If it occupies an airy sign the death is due to air 
accident or cerebro-vascular accident, and if it is in watery sign the death 
is due to drowning. This position of Mars is adverse for the native as 
well as his or her spouse. The native may be short lived, or he or she 
may loose his wife or husband early in life. It also adversely affects 
happiness, harmony or mutual relationship between the couple. Quarrels, 
conflicts and dispute may mar domestic life. Strained relations may even 
lead to separation or divorce. There is risk of injuries due to accident, 
fall from height or fall from animals. Injuries or diseases of the genital 
organs, piles, fissure, fistula, blood disease or surgical intervention for 
any disease are also likely for the native or his or her spouse. The eyesight 
suffers and requires correction. Financial mismanagement causes him 
indebted and thus worried. Danger from the thieves and enemies is there. 

Marriage can also be affected due to various types of legal actions. 
Native may also indulge in extra marital relations. However, auspicious 
affects of other planets in the birth chart could reduce the adversities. 
This position of Mars is favourable for income and eamings, and increase 
in property through legacy or inheritance. The native commands over 
several people. The damage to marital affairs and health is not dependent 
upon Mars being exalted or debilitated or in friendly or vargottam 
navamsa. Thus Mars in the 8" house results into strongest Kuja dosha 
and the native having Mars in 8" must be married after proper matching 


GENERAL RESULTS OF MARS 15 


of horoscopes and not to a person having Mars in 8" or 7 house. A 
proper matching of the horoscopes and suitable remedial measures may 
be the only way to reduce the adversity regarding marital life, love or 
health. 


Mars In : Ninth House 


This house is the house of fortune. The 9" house decides long journeys, 
religion, spiritual inclination, grand children; guru; virtues and charities. 
If Mars is in the 9" house the native commands respect in society. He 
comes in contact with persons in power. He may become the member 
of the management committee of a religious, social, political , educational 
or a charitable organization. He is forceful in beliefs and is religious, 
liberal, active, enterprising and energetic and has tendency to perform 
many things at a time. He may have few long journeys or foreign travels 
which may be associated with some troubles. He may also have some 
emotional relationships with the other sex, which may invite opposition 
or criticism. His relations with his brothers are not very harmonious or 
else some of his brothers suffer illness ‘or die early. 


The presence of Mars in the 9" house is also adverse for the legacy 
of the person. The native is deprived of his share in the inherited property 
due to which disputes, fights, and litigation may take place. 


Mars In : Tenth House 


The 10" house relates to profession, occupation or means of livelihood. 
It is also related to all matters affecting one's name, fame, honor and 
recognition. Mars gives the best result in the 10” house. All astrologers 
of past and present have agreed this. Abdul Rahim Khan-e-Khana, an 
-Important member of the cabinet of King Akbar, and also a learned 
astrologer, had said that success would touch the feet of person who 
has Mars in the 10" house. The native is wealthy, courageous, respected, 
and famous. He gains through business or profession. Here Mars gives 
the best result in the matters of profession or career and is also good 
for matters of trade and business. However, the best results of Mars 
in the 10" house are obtained when it is not associated with any other 
planet, and its relationship with the lord of the 10" house is also good. 
It may give better results in sign Leo rather than in Aries or Scorpio. 
It would give very good result in the matter of service and also in the 
political career of the individual. Gains may be there through speculation 
in property of any kind. Gains from the father and also by legacy are 
also indicated. As the 10" house also refers to the father of the native, 


16 AN INSIGHT INIO KUJA DOSHA 


Mars' position in the 10" house provides harmonious relation between 
the father and native and even if lord of the 10° house and Mars are 
not very friendly or well disposed, relations with father would not turn 
inimical. If afflicted, the native would be of revolutionary nature. 

The position of Mars in the 10" house gives rise to Kuldeepak Yoga 
ie. the native is most popular in his family for shouldering all the 
responsibilities of the family. 


Mars In : Eleventh House 


The 11" house deals with profits and gains, income, acquisitions, 
accomplishment of ambition, elder brother and friends etc. Placement 
of Mars in the 1!" house is one of the most auspicious placements. It 
endows the native with excellent qualities. Such natives are valiant, 
courageous, intelligent and posses good character. They are eloquent and 
forceful speakers. Individual effort towards earning income is rewarded 
and his wishes accomplished. In own, friendly or exaltation sign (Aries/ 
Scorpio, Capricorn, Leo, Sagittarius, Pisces) the native becomes the 
beneficiary of unearned wealth too. Properties and assets are owned/ 
accumulated through gift, adoption, and marriage or by his or her 
income. He may also acquire property by force and fair or foul means. 
The native wields considerable influence in higher echelons or 
acquires position of power in politics. He has few real friends and in 
case of affliction trouble or loss through unreliable friends could be there. 
Aspect of Mars over the 5" house affects prospects of education and 
children. Though it gives problematic birth of child, one or more 
intended or unintended abortions may also be there. Education may be 
disturbed and native's inclination and abilities of management is affected 
depending upon other favorable or unfavorable influences over the 5" 
house. The native is sometimes cunning and clever and does not hesitate 
to achieve his goal even by conspiracy, treachery, or force or violence. 
The native may earn money by liaison work or even by bribery. 


Mars In : Twelth Honse 


Position of Mars in the 12" house is generally an adverse position. There 
is a danger of injury through accidents, animal's bite or unsocial elements 
(thieves, robbers, and enemies) which may cause lose of blood. Opera- 
tion (particularly in females, like surgery during delivery), disturbance 
in menstrual cycle, blood disorders or defects of vision especially in the 
left eye are likely. Secrete enemies are there. And the native suffers loss 
through misplaced confidence, theft or dacoity. Heavy losses in gambling 


GENERAL RESULTS OF MARS 17 


or speculation will be there. Many times loss of assets, property or cash 
is due to penalty from the govt. Property may be sold to make up for 
other losses. The native may also give his property in donation or gift. 
Loss of business especially due to fire and electricity is also the result. 

The native suffers loss of prestige due to many scandals and may 
be accused of being involved in unlawful activities, such as smuggling, 
taking bribe and criminal act, etc. He will have to face inquiries, would 
be liable for any penalty or punishment including imprisonment. If in 
service, the native may have to take early retirement due to any reason. 
Dismissal from service may also result, if the affliction is heavy. 

Mars in the 12" may also tend the native to lead a secluded life by 
accepting sanyaas. 

Mars in 12" house is also bad for married or marital life. This 
position of Mars causes effective Kuja dosha. Good aspects or benefic 
signs in 12" house reduce the adversity of Mars. 

K? 2 te ote o% 


o, 
S “~ “ ~~ of ww “ye 


meat Yat: Perea, Weed: Fwpies: | 
am: deta w: emu, wea: ara ofasret 7} 
As trees give fruit for the benefit of others, the person, whose life 


is dedicated for the welfare of others, is praiseworthy. 


CHAPTER 1.3 


MARS AND MARRIAGE: 
VARIOUS COMBINATIONS 


placed. It is not always so, until unless Mars occupies specific houses 

in particular signs and gets afflicted by malefic planets. There are 
certain dispositions of Mars when such affliction of Venus by Mars or 
Saturn may cause dis-balance in sexual life and enhancement in passion 
which may result into immoral sex. All this should be carefully examined 
before reaching final conclusion. Certain guidelines regarding behaviour 
of Mars in reference to marriage and related matters are given below, 
just to have a preliminary overview of Mars and marital aspects. 

Mars indicates energy, youth, vitality, crime, courage, independence, 
blood, fire, logic, killers, conspiracy, wounds, management, organisational 
& executive ability, leadership qualities, muscles, strength, vigour, 
violence and anger etc. 


| t is believed that Mars plays havocs in the marital life, if adversely 


1. In case of female natives, everything about husband, marriage & 
marital life is to be judged by the 7" house, its lord and Mars, apart 
from the association and aspect on the 7” house. The 8" house 
does play a very important role in the judgement of the length of 
conjugal life, health of husband and conjugal bliss etc. The 8" 
house indicates widowhood, dowry, and removal from the house 
of parents', and foreign links. Varah Mihir writes that 8" house 
in a woman's chart indicates longevity of her husband. 

2. Mars governs the sex life of a woman; therefore position of Mars 
is to be examined carefully. Placement of Mars in a particular 
constellation, “avamsa, sign and house will decide the sexual 


MARS AND MARRIAGE: VARIOUS COMBINATIONS 19 


nature, sex life, loyalty or disloyalty and truthfulness of the woman. 
Mars, Scorpio sign, the 8" honse and its lord are always adverse 
for normal sex behaviour. The affliction of any of these will cause 
problems in sex life. 

. A retrograde or combust Mars associated with Mercury, Venus or 
Moon, in a woman's chart, may make her frigid unless aspected 
by or associated with benefics. 

. Venus is the Karaka of wife in the birth chart of a male whereas 
Mars is the significator of husband and sex behaviour in a woman's 
chart. A strong Mars in a females chart will make her extremely 
passionate. The debilitated: Mars as 7" lord and its conjunction with 
the Sun and aspect from Saturn will give adverse results to a 
female, regarding her sex life and passion. In addition to that, 
stronger affliction of the 7" house and Mars will create problems 
in married life. 

. Placement of Mars in the ascendant or conjunction with the lord 
of ascendant will make the girl bold to enjoy her sex life by taking 
some amount of risk. 

. Relationship between Mars and Saturn: Mars brings into action the 
thoughts brought by Saturn. Action cannot be done without 
thinking or planning. This is the reason of exaltation of Mars in 
the sign of Satum. When Saturn is placed in the sign of Mars Aries, 
it is debilitated. This shows that any action or activity withont 
thoughts or planning will be harmful or damaging, that is why Mars 
gets exalted in the sign of Saturn & Satum gets debilitated in the 
sign of Mars. 

This point is to be properly understood by us that if Mars is under 
the influence of Saturn & Saturn is well placed, auspicious events 
will come in evidence. On the contrary, if Saturn is influenced by 
strong Mars, negative effects & damages will be there. A strong 
Mars and weak Saturn, and strong Satum and weak Mars cause 
disasters. If Mars and Saturn are well placed in horoscope the 
native will be quite successful in his life. 

. When Mars is placed in a sensitive house and is aspected by Rahn 
in the case of a woman, her lust will be immensely enhanced. 
Aspect of benefic planets will however check it. The 8” house, 
its owner and Mars, in addition to Scorpio sign, represent desire 
of sex or intensity of passion. If the 8" honse is afflicted by Mars, 
Venus or Saturn etc., the native will be lustful. Placement of 
benefics in the 8" house will restrict passion and immoral sex to 


10. 


ll. 


AN INSIGHT IN TO KUJA DOHA 


a great extent. Any relation of the 6" Jord with Scorpio sign or 
the 8" lord, increases the passion, specially in relation to moral 
values. 


. If Mangli dosha is present in a birth chart, Moon and Venus should 


be examined to verify conjugal happiness and life of the husband. 
Dr. B. V. Raman writes in his famous book 'How to judge a 
horoscope’, that when Venus, Mars and Jupiter in one horoscope 
are situated in a trine or 3/11 position in the other horoscope, it 
is a favourable position. (That is, if in the boy's horoscope Venus 
is in Taurus and in the girl's horoscope in Cancer or Virgo, it is 
good.) When the Sun and the Moon have similar harmonious 
positions, except 2/12 (dwi-dwadasa), there is usually strong 
attachment. Here again if the husband's Sun is in Cancer and the 
wife's is in Virgo, the needed harmony exists. When the Sun and 
the Moon are disposed as suggested above but Mars in one case 
is in a sign, which happens to be the 12” from Venus in the other 
horoscope, attachment exists, but there cannot be normal happiness 
in their private lives. If Venns in one horoscope is in a sign occupied 
by Saturn, a serious and industrious partner is indicated. Mars in 
the 7", aspected by benefics, indicates frequent quarrels leading 
to mis-understandings. Saturn in the 7" confers stability in the 
marriage but the husband or wife manifest coldhess and not 
warmth. A strong malefic in the 7" affects marital happiness unless 
neutralized by a benefic aspect. If the Janma Rasi (Moon-sign) of 
the wife (or husband) happens to be the 7" from the position of 
the lord of 7" (in the other) the married life will be lasting and built 
on mutual understanding and affection. 


In the horoscope of males, Venus is the significator of wife and 
if it is hemmed between malefics, more than two marriages are 
indicated- legitimate or illegitimate. If Venus is combust or afflicted 
or placed in inimical sign, adversities are bound to appear. If Venus 
falls in the sign of luminaries, happiness of conjugal life is curtailed 
and it is further worse if Venus occupies Cancer or Leo & it is 
hemmed between Moon & the Sun. In such a case if the influence 
of Saturn is also prominent over Inminaries or the 7" house, the 
marriage may be completely denied. 

If Venus and Moon are conjoined, either in the ascendant or 7 
house, problems in the settlement of marriage will be there. If the 
combination is further afflicted by Mars, the marriage may be 
completely denied. In the horoscope of an Indian astrologer of 


MARS AND MARRIAGE: VARIOUS COMBINATIONS 21 


worldwide fame the conjunction of Moon, Venus & Mars in the 
ascendant, denied marriage to him completely. His ascendant was 
ruled by Venus and the 7" house was owned by Mars. 


. In the horoscope of women, Mars & Sun represent their husbands. 


Afflicted Mars will create unhappiness in the married life of 
females. Placement of Mars in the 7" honse is extremely adverse 
in female natives. There is usually unhappy marriage and many 
times it ends into disasters, separation or loss of spouse. Such 
females are more inclined towards their sex life and affliction of 
such a Mars causes perversion of sex. We have found that such 
a Mars of 7" house is damaging, even if there is aspect of benefic 
planets. The life partner of such a female will be short-tempered, 
aggressive, handsome, rash, dynamic, dashing, conrageons, bold, 
industrions, independent, forceful, assertive, strong, energetic and 
ambitious. Placement of Mars in the 7 honse, in addition to 8" 
house, is worst in female nativity. 


. In the horoscope of males, if the Mars is placed in the 7" house, 


adversities will damage the bliss of conjngal life. The wife will be 
good looking and smart but she may not be obedient, loyal, truthful, 
faithful, or dedicated to her husband. Mars in the 7" house will 
make the partner quite assertive and bold. Afflicted Mars in the 7” 
honse indicates quarrels & unpleasantness in married life. Generally, 
such a Mars gives dissatisfaction and distrust to partner. In number 
of cases Mars in the 7 house, in the female nativity, resulted in 
the death of the life partner. 


Illustration No. 131 Horoscope No. 60 


In this chart Mars is placed in 7" house in own sign Scorpio. She 
killed her husband quite cleverly, as he was creating obstacles and 
problems in her meeting her boyfriend. Later on, that Mohamedden 
boy also left her, alleging that when she was not loyal to her 
husband how can she be loyal to him. 


. If Mars joins the 7" house, even if it is aspected by Jupiter & Moon, 


adversities cannot be ruled out. We have experienced that it is only 
the Sun, which can check the adversities of Mars. If the Mars is 
associated with the Sun or placed in the sign of Sun or aspected 
by Sun, anywhere in the horoscope, Mars will not give malefic 
results or its adversities will be largely curtailed. Many shlokas state 
that Kuja dosha gets cancelled by the aspect of Moon or Jupiter 
bnt that is misleading. We have fonnd it incorrect. If Mars is 


AN INSIGHT IN TO KUJA DOHA 


afflicted by Rahu, Ketu, Satum or Mercury one will be brutal, 
destructive, killer, cruel, rash, criminal and illogical. 


. The evil effects of Mars depend on the sign it is present in, and 


they vary according to the nature of signs. If posited in hot and 
fiery signs, the partner will surely be of rash temperament; if it is 
in watery sign, the partner will be inclined to drinks. But it does 
not give very bad effects in Aries and Scorpio though there may 
be chances of more than one marriage, if other combinations also 
confirm. If Mars is posited in Capricorn in the 7", one will happily 
enjoy his or her marriage and his social status also gets enhanced. 
The native will have sexual unions & extra marital relations with 
the persons of high walks of life. But married life will not be 
unhappy. Mars, when present in earthy signs, or gets affliction 
from Saturn, indicates delay in marriage. 


Illustration No. 13.2. Horoscope No. 63 


In this case Mars in placed in Capricorn in the 7 house. She is 
a charming and clever woman who had a love marriage. However 
presence of Mars in the 7" house brought her physically close to 
a smart, billionaire, handsome man of worldwide fame and very 
high status. She stayed with him like her beloved round the clock 
for approximately three years. Her husband got many promotions 
due to her proximity with that man. Here Mars in the 7” house 
did not bring any serious disaster in her marital life, so long as she 
lived. 


. If Mars is placed in 7", it will cause death by fever, fire, firearms, 


accident or operation. If Mars is placed in fixed signs i.e. Taums, 
Leo, Scorpio or Aquarius, the spouse may die in any accident or 
mishap. 


Illustration No. 133. Horoscope No. 65 


In this horoscope of a beautiful brunette Mars is placed in the +h 
house in Aquarius ie. in a fixed sign. Her husband committed 
suicide when he came to know of her illicit love affair. One day 
when he had to come home early during office hours he found 
the native in compromising position with her lover. In this birth 
chart there is mutual exchange between 7" lord Satum & 9" lord 
Mars. Ketu joins the 8" house, which is adverse for the life of 
husband. The husband of native in question was DIG in police 
posted in Lucknow. The eighth house, which represents marital 


17. 


MARS AND MARRIAGE: VARIOUS COMBINATIONS 2B 


happiness, is hemmed between Mars & Satur. As a result she had 
to bear the brunt of widowhood within 10 years of marriage. Mars 
in the 7" house made her adulterous & created uncontrollable 
passion in her. However she also died under mysterious circum- 
stances after about 10 years of the death of her husband. 

It is said that Mars does not give rise to Mangli dosha in Aquarius 
& Leo, anywhere, but this is not dependable. Here, in the aforesaid 
illustration, Mars in Aquarius caused early widowhood. 


Illustration No. 134. Horoscope No. 61 


Mars is placed in the 7" house in Scorpio which is aspected by 
Jupiter as well, that way as per various aphorisms, Kuja dosha 
should be cancelled, but it did not happen so. After 2% years of 
marriage she lost her husband in an accident on 16.3.1976. She 
got married on 9.12.74 at the age of 20. Mars in own sign in the 
7" house under the aspect of Jupiter resulted in early marriage and 
early widowhood as well. So, one should never think that Mars 
in Aquarius; Leo, Scorpio, or Aries would always neutralise Kuja 
dosha. Even the aspect of Jupiter over Mars does not promise 
elimination of Kuja dosha. 


. If Mars is placed in the 7" house in Pisces, longevity of wife will 


be hampered, as Mars becomes 2" & 8" lord. This is the statement 
of various scholars of astrology, but we do not agree with this. In 
horoscopes no. 66, 67 and 68 Mars occupies the 7” house in Pisces 
sign but there had not been any detrimental effect on the longevity 
of their wives. So it should be well understood that Mars in Pisces 
in 7" house is not deleterious for conjugal life or life partner. 


. In Capricom ascendant, Mars gets debilitated in the 7" house. It 


has been written in texts that if Mars is placed in debilitation it 
does not cause Kuja dosha. However we have come across many 
cases, which belie this statement. 


Illustration No. 135. Horoscope No. 76 


The native was bom in Capricom ascendant with debilitated Mars 
in the 7” house. Here Mars is associated with 8" lord Sun. 7" lord 
Moon joins the 9"" house in association with Yogakaraka Venus. 
The native got married on 10.2.96 and got separated on 8.1.99 but 
he suffered a lot and went to jail also. Various false charges were 
imposed on him. He again got married with a very ordinary girl 
on 9.3.99. The father-in-law demanded money from him every 


” 


20. 


21. 


22. 


23. 


24. 


AN INSIGHT IN TO KUJA DOHA 


month. The native made his best efforts to save his marriage. He 
was beaten number of times by his wife and parents-in- law. But 
he tolerated even that much so that he may stay with his wife, but 
planets played their negative role. The parents-in-law made a 
deceitful complaint of dowry against him. He went to jail once 
again for about 3 months. The native is extremely simple and a 
low paid employee. He is quite soft hearted and has decent 
behaviour but placement of debilitated Mars in the 7" house with 
Sun resulted into miserable married life, one after another, and 
divorce with both of them after many false charges and imprison- 
ment. How can we justify these adversities if we consider this 
placement of Mars as not causing Kuja dosha. Here we would like 
to affirm that Mars in 7" house in debilitation causes strong Kuja 
dosha and brings havoc in married life. Generally, Sun restricts 
adversities if associated with Mars, provided Sun does not own 
trikas. 

When the lord of the 7" house or Mars are under the influence 
of Rahu or Saturn it will result into the increased influence of 
opposite sex. The lady will be attracted towards that person whose 
Saturn or Rahu aspects the Mars of her birth chart. 

When Venus ofa male native falls in the same sign in which Mars 
of the female native is present; there will be a feeling of attraction 
and love at first sight. Greater attraction and deeper love may be 
expected if the degrees of Venus of the male and that of Mars of 
the female are closer to each other. Same results of love and 
attraction should be expected if Venus of the male aspects the Mars 
of the female. e. g. lf in the horoscope of a male native Venus falls 
in Aries and in the horoscope of a female native Mars joins Libra, 
both will love each other and will always remain attracted towards 
each other, if they come in contact by any chance. 

If Ketu is posited in the 7” house in the sign of any malefic planet, 
there will be a secret marriage or Gandharva Vivah. \f Mars and 
Ketu are conjoined in the 7" house in Aries, Cancer, Scorpio or 
Leo Signs, there will be a secret marriage and the commitment will 
be stronger. 

Ketu should be treated like Mars for the judgement of Mangli 
Dosha. This is especially so, if Ketu is placed in the 7" house, 8" 
house or ascendant. 

If the lord of the 7" house or Mars occupies the 2™ house one 
will get married to a relative. If 2"! and 7" houses are related with 


25. 


26. 


MARS AND MARRIAGE: VARIOUS COMBINATIONS 25 


each other in one or other way marriage will take place with distant 
relative or friend's child. 

If Mars and Rahu are conjoined in the 7” house the friendship with 
the person of another community will take place. If Mars and Rahu 
are conjoined or associated with 7" lord or Venus, inter-caste 
marriage is likely to take place. The 9" house indicates traditions 
and if the 9 house has any relation with the 7 house or its 
significator or its lord, in addition to malefics like Rahu, Satu, 
Ketu etc., inter caste marriage in lower class will take place. If 
benefics like Jupiter and Venus are there in 9" house, in combi- 
nation of love marriage, the marriage will take place in a higher 
class. Satum and Rahu, if they afflict the combination, may result 
into inter-religion marriage. 

Death of the life partner may take place when the following 
combinations are under affliction. 

a. If Sun is debilitated in the 7 house and is associated with 
Mars, Rahu and Satum. 

b. When Sun, Moon, Venus join the 7" house with nodes ie. 
Rahu or Ketu. 

c. {f Rahu is placed in the 7" house under Papakartari Yoga 
formed by Mars & Saturn. 

d. If Moon is placed in the 4™ house in Scorpio in Jyestha 
Nakshatra and the 7" house is also afflicted, the native may 
lose his wife. 

e. Ifthe ascendant is a dual sign and the Sun occupies it, and 
Saturn falls in 7 provided 7" lord is weak or afflicted. 

f. When Saturn, Mars and Rahu occupy 7 house in Cancer 
sign, the native may lose his wife. 

g. When there is mutual exchange between 8” and 7" lords 
under the aspect of malefics, the spouse will expire soon after 
marriage. : 

h. Ifthe 7" lord occupies the 6" house with 6" lord, there will 
be disaster. Loss of partner is likely to take place. 

i. Placement of Rahu & Mars in the 8" house may cause 
untimely loss of the husband provided the 7" house is 
hemmed between malefics. 


Illustration No. 13.6. Horoscope No. 97 
In this case Mars and Rahu are placed in the 8" house. This 


AN INSIGHT IN TO KUJA DOHA 


beautiful lady lost her husband in a road accident, 10 years after 
marriage. He was a class one officer. Mangli dosha was not 
balanced in the horoscopes and the marriage was not recom- 
mended. In many other cases too, conjunction of Rahu with Mars 
in the 8m house caused untimely death of the husband, in female 
nativities, 

j. The native will die if the7™ house is hemmed between Mars 
and Satum and the eighth lord occupies the 7th house. 

In a case, the native was a charming woman who was involved 
in illicit love affair with a doctor, which ultimately forced her to 
commit suicide, leaving behind a son and a daughter. 

k. When lord of the Sth house is in 7th and is afflicted as well, 
7'" is afflicted with malefics along with weak Venus, death 
occurs due to abortion or at the time of birth of a child. 

1. If Mars is the 8" lord and aspects the 8th house where the 
7m lord is placed, the death of husband will take place. 

m. Placement of Mars in the 5th house is also adverse for the 
life of husband for a female nativity. This has been discussed 
in a separate chapter. 

n. If Mars occupies the 8 house and Satum is placed in the 
2nd, the husband will expire; and if it is reverse ie. Satum 
in 8m & Mars in 2na, the woman may herself die. 

In the case of horoscope no. 105, the husband of the native expired, 
while in another case having Mars in 2na and Saturn in 8th the native 
herself died in an accident. In both the cases the deaths were 
untimely. 


If Mars is in the eighth and Saturn is in 8th, 2nd, or 6th house, 
then adversities are bound to come. Similarly if the Satum 
is placed in the 8" house and Mars occupies the St or 2nd 
house or even the ascendant, the death of partner or 
separation may be the result. 

o. Placement of Mars & Ketu in the 7th house may be extremely 
adverse for bringing widowhood especially if Mercury is 
associated as lord of 2nd or 7th house. (Horoscope No. 60) 

p. Ifthe lord of the 2na house occupies the 12" house & Satum 
is placed in 6m house, death of husband may take place. 

In horoscope no. 116, the husband of the native died in a jeep 
accident within one year of their marriage. 

q. IfStn lord Mars is in 8 and 8m lord Saturn is in 5th, or vice 
versa, death of husband will take place. 


27: 


28. 


29, 


30. 


31. 


32. 


MARS AND MARRIAGE: VARIOUS COMBINATIONS 27 


The horoscope of Mrs. Maneka Gandhi has such combination and 
had to bear the brunt of widowhood at a very young age. 

If the Sun and Moon are conjoined in the 7" house in a male nativity 
the married life will be spoiled. Same results will come into view 
in 8" house in a woman's chart. The adversity will be further 
enhanced, if Venus also conjoins Sun and Moon in the concerning 
houses. 

The position of Mars should be examined from Venus, the lord of 
7'* house and 7"* house itself for the judgement of the nature of 
marital life. 

Adverse results are bound to come in a female nativity if Mars 
comes under the influence of Satum. Here one should not forget 
that Mars is the significator of husband. In male nativity the Karaka 
of wife is Venus & if Venus is afflicted by Saturn, in one or the 
other way, there will no serious problem in married life, because 
Saturn is friend of Venus. However, if Venus is afflicted by Mars, 
Sun or Moon, the marital life will be problematic. 

In a female nativity Mars, the Sun and Saturn play a vital role in 
deciding the status of one’s marriage. Here Mars is the Karaka of 
husband and signifies the longevity, merits, courage, honour, 
profession, progress and prosperity of the husband. The Sun rules 
the education, direction, strength, smartness, agility, and also the 
caring attitude and element of love of the husband towards the wife. 
Saturn rules miseries, obstacles, delay, denial, problems, separation, 
distress, despair, disharmony, dissatisfaction & disappointment etc. 
So, the affliction of Mars or Sun by Saturn is most undesirable 
in a female horoscope. If the 7 lord or Venus occupy 6", 8", 
12" house or get debilitated and are retrograde from 26° to 1°, there 
will be failure in love affair and inauspicious results will be evident. 
Murders, insults, harsh behaviour and other such activities may also 
be the outcome. This will be further aggravated if any of the malefic 
planets is conjoined with the7" lord or Venus or the planets in the 
7" house. 


If Mars, Venus and Saturn occupy the 2" or 12" place from the 
7" lord there will be failure of love affair and the same will not 
transform into marriage. 

In a female horoscope, exalted or debilitated Saturn, if adversely 
placed, does not cause death of the husband but results into 
ailments which come under the Karakatva of Saturn like neuro- 
logical complaints, asthma, pain, windy complaints, spondylitis, 
lameness etc. 


28 AN INSIGHT IN TO KUJA DOHA 


Mr. H.N. Katwe writes in his classical work "Mangal Vichar" that Mars 
plays a significant role in matching of horoscopes of boys & girls for 
marriages especially in our Indian society. Generally a girl having Kuja 
dosha should be married to a boy having Kuja dosha approximately of 
the same intensity. Strength of Jupiter and Saturn should also be judged 
for a happy marital life. 

Mr. H.N. Katwe believes that placement of Mars in lagna in Aries, 
in the 4" house in Scorpio, in the 7" in Capricom, in the 8" in Cancer 
and in the 12” house in Sagittarius does not cause Kuja dosha. Acharya 
Balmukund holds the same opinion and has mentioned it in heading 
"Mangli Vichar Ke Tark" on Page 40. 

Mr. Katwe believes that Mars and Sun both should be taken into 
consideration for the judgement of the nature, behaviour, merits, posi- 
tion, profession, conjugal bliss, family life etc. of the husband. If Sun 
in a female nativity is afflicted by Saturn, by aspect or association, there 
will be much difficulty in the settlement of marriage or the father of the 
girl will suffer from poverty at the time of marriage or the marriage may 
take place after the death of father. But the married life will be generally 
happy and the husband would be young. If the father does not die before 
marriage, he prospers after the marriage. 

If Mars is afflicted by Saturn or Satum is placed in the 4° or 8 
house, there will be negative results such as widowhood, separation, or 
loss or denial of children, poverty, problems, failure in undertakings, 
distress, disappointment etc. after the birth of a son. But in that case Mars 
or Satum must influence Jupiter or the 5" house in one or the other way. 
These results come in evidence when Saturn transits over radical Mars. 
In spite of merits, wisdom, education & ability the husband fails to settle 
himself in profession & finance, even till the age of 50. He may go for 
second marriage also. In that case, rise of fortune of the wife takes place 
after the second marriage of her husband. 

The adverse results as mentioned above should be expected only 
when Mars and Saturn are conjoined or both aspect each other. They 
may be placed opposite each other under mutual aspect or Satur is 
placed in the 4" house from Mars or Saturn is 8" from radical Mars. 
These results will be more prominent when Mars is placed in sensitive 
houses of Kuja dosha. For all kinds of adversities, Saturn should be 
behind Mars. This point should be noted carefully. 

If Mars is placed in remaining houses other than those where 
placement of Mars gives rise to Kuja dosha, the adversities, problems, 
tensions, disasters, havoc & obstacles are not expected. But if Mars is 


MARS AND MARRIAGE: VARIOUS COMBINATIONS 2 


associated or aspected by Saturn, even in those positions, similar adverse 
results appear. We have found that if either Mars or Satum own the 
ascendant or 7'* house and have mutual aspect or association marital 
maladies are bound to create disasters and adversities in one's married 
life. 


Some Important Points: Regarding Kuja dosha 


This is taken for granted and has been suggested by all sages, who have 
written anything about Kuja dosha, that Kuja dosha of same intensity 
is desirable in the horoscopes of boy & girl. That is to say, that a proper 
balancing of Mangli dosha in both the birth charts will nullify all 
adversities of marital maladies caused due to Mangli dosha, for both of 
them. It has also been said by all scholars that 75% of adversities caused 
by Mars get balanced by Satum, Rahu or Ketu in the other horoscope. 

Acharya H.N. Katwe has given a new observation, which is found 
very accurate and gives astonishing results as per our experiences as 
well. All students of astrology are advised to follow these observations 
in the study & matching of horoscopes for marriage. He says that a girl, 
in whose horoscope, the one. the 4" or the7™ house is afflicted, does not 
enjoy the happiness of married life either due to denial of marriage or 
due to divorce or widowhood. 

If a girl has such affliction of the concerning houses, she must be 
matried with a boy having similar affliction of Venus by Saturn, either 
by conjunction or opposition or by dwi-dwadash (2/12) position. If 
married with such a boy, all adversities will be neutralised and both will 
live happily. 

In a woman's horoscope placement of Mars in the sensitive houses 
results into problems, accidents, unhappiness and disappointments, 
losses, loss of position and ailments etc to the husband., Similarly, in 
man's horoscope if Venus is afflicted in the conceming houses, the wife 
will be troubled in one or the other way. Therefore, for the purpose of 
matching of birth chart, the position of Venus in the horoscope of the 
boy must be examined carefully. The Sun should also be taken into 
consideration for the judgement of marital aspect of the girl. Affliction 
of Sun with Saturn is worst and this affliction must be given due 
importance & weightage while matching the birth chart of a female with 
a male native. 

It is believed that Kuja dosha, if present in the horoscope of the girl, 
brings disaster, poverty, death, unhappiness, miseries, maladies, ail- 
ments, distress and denial of children to her husband. We also believe 


30 AN INSIGHT IN TO KUJA DOHA 


that if Kuja dosha is present in the horoscope of a woman in true sense, 
there will be unhappiness in their married life due to one or the other 
reason mentioned above. First of all, we must know whether Kuja dosha 
present in a particular birth charts is active? If it is inactive i. e. Kuja 
dosha has been cancelled, no importance to that inactive Kuja dosha may 
be given. 

For various ascendants Kuja dosha acts in different ways and gives 
different results. In many cases it may destroy the conjugal bliss and at 
some places it may bring widowhood or poverty, accident or ailment. 
This is really a matter of regret that so far no scholar of astrology has 
taken pains to find out the actual results of Kuja dosha in various 
horoscopes for various ascendants in the sensitive houses. However, we 
have observed that Kuja dosha is most wrongly understood by the 
astrologers of today. We know very senior scholars of astrology who 
apply the formulas of Kuja dosha verbatim without application of their 
observations, experience and knowledge. 

Kuja dosha was not considered so important as it has been specified 
in the books of astrologers of today. Maharishi Parashar, Maharishi 
Varahmihir, Acharya Mantreshwar, Acharya Kalyan Verma and many 
classical scholars have not mentioned anything about Kuja dosha. They 
are said to be "Father of Astrology". They originated astrology on the 
basics of siddhies they had. Why did they have not mentioned even a 
word like Mangli Dosha or Kuja Dosha in their big classical works like 
Brihad Hora Parashar, Phaldipika, Saravali and Mansagari etc. They 
mentioned the results of Mars, like all other planets in all the twelve 
houses but they did not call it Mangli Dosha. \t is first of all in "Dev 
Keralam", that Kuja dosha was mentioned for the adversities created 
by Mars in one's married life or marriage. Dr. B. V. Raman has mentioned 
in "How to judge a horoscope Vol. II" and “Muhurtha” that Kuja dosha 
does not occur if Mars occupies Leo or Aquarius anywhere in the 
horoscope. He has further explained that Kuja dosha is not present if 
Mars occupies second house identical to Gemini or Virgo sign, the 4 
house identical to Scorpio or Aries, the 7" house identical to Capricorn 
or Cancer, the 8" house identical to Sagittarius or Pisces, the 12" house 
identical to Taurus or Libra. 


We do not agree with this configuration with due honour & regard 
to Dr. B. V. Raman. However, we will discuss more about cancellation 
of Kuja dosha further in a separate chapter. 

Here we discussed, in tit bits, about certain specific positions of 
Mars, Venus and Saturn, which play distinct negative role in conjugal 


MARS AND MARRIAGE: VARIOUS COMBINATIONS 31 


life. Now we intend to deal with the Kuja dosha exhaustively, in the 
next section, both on the basis of astrological classics and our experience 
and individual case stndies. Various adversities in the marital life, caused 
due to different situations of Mars, and the conditions when Kuja dosha 
is ineffective or cancelled are discussed at length. Next section also 
encompasses two chapters on two interesting but misunderstood facts 
viz. Kuja dosha due to placement of Mars in the 5"" house (in a female 
nativity) and Jupiter's questionable role in enhancing the maladies. 


o 


Ye 


o> 


“ 
f 
Se 


? 
£7 


41¢, 
49, 


Se ote 
2 


SECTION 2 
ASTRO-DIMENSIONS OF 
KUJA DOSHA 


adtetu aeted watta wafer | 
wavarenetent ar uvat fara st 


If you want to influence or control the world with your single act, 
you can do it by stopping your tongue critcising others (like stop- 
ping the cattle grazing the field). 


CHAPTER 2.1 


KUJA DOSHA : 
DEFINED & DESCRIBED 


n adverse Mars sows the seeds of discord in one's married life. 

If it is negative or detrimental it can shatter the marital life and 

can even result into separation or divorce. Mars is a first rate 
malefic planet which gives rise to Kuja dosha or Mangli dosha if placed 
adversely in the 1S, 2°¢, 4, 7", 8" or the 12" house of any birth chart. 
There are many misunderstandings about Kuja dosha, not only among 
common men but also among the so-called astrologers. We have 
observed several times in our practice of astrology that Kuja dosha has 
been most misinterpreted, incorrectly applied and illogically explained 
by astrologers. Many times much emphasis is given to Kuja dosha, 
though it is not at all required. On the other hand strong Kuja dosha 
is ignored due to imperfect knowledge of the subject or improper and 
insincere handling of the birth chart. Mangli dosha should be understood 
logically and _ scientifically. 

Mars is a planet of violence, crime, disasters, miseries, death of the 
spouse, mis-happenings, bloodshed, anger and criticism etc. The malefic 
effect of Mars on the 7 house - the house of life partner- will spoil 
the matters of this house and would cause death of the husband or wife, 
miserable married life, uncontrollable anger, violence with spouse, 
infidelity, sickness, misunderstandings and mis-happenings. This is the 
common influence of Mars on the 7" house, in male or female birth 
charts alike. The 8" house has got vital importance in female nativity. 
The 8" house governs conjugal bliss, life span of husband, length and 
status of married life etc. in the horoscope of women. Generally, presence 


36 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


of Mars in the 8 house in a woman's horoscope leads to widowhood. 
If the horoscope of the husband of such a lady shows strong indications 
of long life, life will not be lost but he will then suffer from mental 
trouble or physical disability following an accident or sickness. The 
couple may be deprived of children or suffer from the pangs of poverty. 
Thus the effect of Mars on the 7in or 8" house will cause adversity in 
the marriage of a woman. In the chart of men, the 7t house rules both 
wife and conjugal life. The 8 house is not connected with the marital 
happiness or the life span of the wife. But the 8" house does indicate 
longevity and the cause of death etc. Influence of Mars on the 8th house, 
in the chart of a man, will bring health-related problems such as sickness, 
accidents and unnatural, untimely or violent death. Therefore, one must 
try to understand the difference of influence of Mars on the 8t house 
in the birth chart of a male or a female nativity. In the woman's horoscope 
such a Mars will be harmful to the husband whereas in a man's chart 
it will adversely affect him only and not his wife. But indirectly it will 
be bad for the wife too as any kind of adversity to the husband will, 
in tum, affect her. Therefore, the Bhava Deepika of Kerala says: - 


eat crt Cate, it a seat BT) 
eater arqfactter: era, Get strat fasaeafa 11 


According to the Agastya Samhita 


eet cart 2 
aot gt a wae, wfert anced wot! 
wen std faenera stat won faier@ea 1) 


It means if Mars occupies lagna, 2na, 4"*, 7", 8m or the 12" house in 
a birth chart, the loss of husband or wife will take place. 

The meaning of this sloka should not be applied as it is. lt only means 
that the placement of Mars in these sensitive places causes marital 
maladies. So the placement of Mars in these houses has been termed 
as Mangli dosha or Kuja dosha. The lagna represents body, the Moon 
represents mind and Venns represents attraction, love and sexual plea- 
sure. The importance of these elements in married life needs no 
explanation. 

Mars, which has an element of fire, is a planet of killing, violent 
deaths, snicides, widowhood and accidents etc. Therefore Mangli dosha, 
if present in a birth chart in a true sense, may cause any of such adversity 
depending upon the exact position of Mars in a particular chart. 


KUJA DOSHA: DEFINED & DESCRIBED 37 


Generally people are very much scared of Kuja dosha. It is understood 
that Kuja dosha causes loss of spouse but it is not always so. Many 
people think that the loss of spouse can take place only if Mangli dosha 
is present in the birth chart. We have observed in hundreds of horoscopes 
where no Kuja dosha was present yet, they lost their spouse. If Kuja 
dosha is present in any horoscope, one must try to study it seriously. 
Proper judgement of aspect, association, lordship and signs should be 
made before reaching any conclusion. 

The maximum intensity of Kuja dosha is in the 8" house while it 
is minimum in the 2" house. Quantum of Kuja dosha in 8", 7", 1", 
4" 12" and 2™ will be in decreasing order. The adverse placement of 
Mars in the 8" house may cause widowhood while Mars in the 2™ house 
will trigger off family feuds. 


From where to count the houses? 


It is opined that Kuja dosha or Mangali dosha should be taken into 
consideration not only from the lagna but also from the positions of 
Moon and Venus. Various write-ups suggest that it should be counted 
from the strongest of the three ie. the /agna, the Moon or the Venus. 
If we start analysing Kuja dosha from lagna, and as well as from the 
Moon and Venus, there will be situation that there are twelve houses 
in a horoscope and placement of Mars in 18 places would cause Kuja 
dosha. Though we do not condemn this view we believe that Kuja dosha 
is effective only from lagna. Kuja dosha remains present in the birth 
chart if Mars occupies the 1‘, 2"4, 4, 7, 8", or the 12"house, counted 
from the ascendant. 


Mangli dosha: from Rashi chart or Bhava chart? 


Mangali dosha should never be taken into account by Rashi chart. It 
should be judged from Bhava chart only. If Mars occupies the 9"" house 
in Rashi chart and has shifted in the 8" house in the Bhava chart, the 
native should be considered a strong Mangli. 


Measurement of intensity of Kuja dosha 


In fact, 75 % of malefic effect of Mars is cancelled by Saturn if both 
are placed in the same honse in the charts of the husband and wife. If 
Mars is debilitated in the 8" house, 75 % of adversity will be nullified 
if Satum is placed in the 8"" house in the sign of its debilitation in the 
partner's birth chart. Similarly, Rahu and Ketu, if placed in the sensitive 
houses, nullify 75 % adversity caused by Mars. This has been given in 


38 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


the form of a table so that Kuja dosha may be measured in the horoscope 
of a boy and a girl before the settlement of their marriage. 

Intensity of Kuja dosha cannot be the same in both the charts. 
However, if 25% variation is there, marriage can take place. 


8" and 7" 4", 12" and 2nd 
Mars Saturn — Sun Mars Saturn Sun 
Rahu Rahu 
Ketu Ketu 
Debility 100. 75 50 50 37.50 25 
Inimical 90 67.50 45 45 33.75 22.50 
Neutral 80 60.00 40 40 30.00 20.00 
Friendly 70 52.50 35 35 26.25 17.50 
Own 60 45.00 30 30 22.50 15.00 
Exaltation 50 37.50 25 25 18.75 12.50 


Planets who are simultaneously responsible for Kuja Dosha 


The preceding subsection may have given an illusion to our readers that 
‘Kuja Dosha’ is solely created by the adverse placing of Mars. But the 
fact is that while the fiery planet Mars is most malefic as far as 'Kuja 
Dosha’ is concerned, other planets of malefic nature cannot be ignored. 
The following shloka has indicated this aspect: 


yar aearat whe wut er feat ow g: wets 
wan ferersrarat alz wut, 


sdtaata at og: wae 


i. e. Should the rulers of the 2" and 7 houses be malefic, they cause 
harm to wife. Should malefics occupy 7" and 8"" houses, they cause harm 
to the husband. 


Garga Samhita indicates the same view in a different way: 
udt ueftat saat faad -oarerfiet 
wat wrevha wret: 1 
we: vatel wretseetu: artfi 
arat ave taeftery 11 


Thus, the aphorism points to the fact that the presence of malefics and 
not only Mars results in Kuja Dosha’. We can conclude that the presence 


KUJA DOSHA: DEFINED & DESCRIBED 39 


of the natural malefics- Mars, Saturn, Rahu, Ketu and Sun- must be taken 
into consideration. 

Mantreshwar has focussed his attention on the malefic Ketu, by 
stressing on reckoning Ketu as Mars. (The rule can be applied to cover 
Rahu as well.) 

Another aphorism from a classic points towards the association of 
Saturn and Kuja Dosha: 


Yeor aqtaa wreurra: afer | 
fasrat aisca eo yafagqacuts | 


Though 7 house and Venus are considered for the husband, 8" house 
and Saturn should also be considered so. 
Similarly, another aphorism points to another malefic, Sun: 


wate wratt wreede wads 
wufat a ge ar avt wr weet) 


i.e. Ifthe lord of the 7", or the Sun occupy a malefic sign or navamsa, 
conjoined with or aspected by malefics, the wife will be perverted and 
do sinful acts. 


Conclusion 


Kuja Dosha is not only related to Mars but also with other malefic 
planets- Rahu, Ketu, Sun and Saturn- though with varying degrees of 
intensity. As many astrologers are ignorant of this fact, their predictions 
are incorrect. 


The counting of 'Kuja Dosha' 


We have already talked about the planets, which are responsible for 
‘Kuja Dosha’. However, we are yet to focus our attention on the starting 
point, from where these positions in a native's horoscope are to be 
analysed. 

Most assertive aphorism on the subject has been given by none other 
than Kalidas: 


aeateg eporqe geet yatta Pafa: wWeta:s 
weg oeraras wereld xt areataftivoy: 7 4 
Should Mars be adversely placed with reference to Lagna, Venus or the 
Moon, wise men predict adversity during his rule (period). 


Another aphorism goes a step further to assign respective weight to 
different three cases: 


40 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


wrisg asredat q avarea fafuerrtecs 
wong ty dee caealeawic 
epergel ured arteefsfizais 


The unit of Desha counted from /agna is 1, from the Moon 3/4 and from 
Venus ¥%.. Should they be placed together, they should be treated from 
lagna alone. 

However, we are not in full agreement with this view, as it would 
mean that placement of Mars in 18 places, in a birth chart, can cause 
Kuja Dosha. In this way, everyone may in one way or the other, become 
Mangli. We, therefore, feel that Mangli dosha should be judged from 
lagna only, for all practical purposes and for matching of horoscopes 
for marriage, and not from Moon and Venus. 


Who will bear the brunt of Kuja dosha? 


It is often a natural query that who, in particular, of the two i. e. the 
husband or wife, is likely to bear the brunt of Kuja dosha after marriage? 
The reply to this question is that if any misfortune happens to one of 
them, the other is bound to suffer. However, our experience about a large 
number of couples, with either or both, having Kuja dosha, shows that 
the individual with heavier Kuja dosha suffers more. > 

. 


7% 4, 2, 7, 
~ od ~ 4 Ad id 


wean fuereira greet er were: | 
aaaet Aeusrretorrat afeefo: -fexa: // 


King, fire, guru(preceptor) and woman-these all must be served 
or used adopting a middle path (Neither be very close to them nor 
very far away), because they are the cause of decline if very close 
and don t give any result if very far. 


CHAPTER 2.2 


ADVERSITIES CAUSED DUE 
TO KUJA DOSHA 


aving clarified the different permutations and combinations in 
He« which can result in 'Kuja Dosha', we are in a position 

to enumerate the various maladies associated with each of them. 
Indeed 'Kuja Dosha' is associated with marital maladies of different 
nature, but conceiving death of spouse in every case would be a 
mistake. The astrologers often present an inflated version of Kuja Dosha 
because of their lack of knowledge to calculate the adversities. It is for 
this reason, that we are presenting an analytical picture of the various 
adversities related to different houses. The basic rule, it should be noted, 
is that the adversities are a direct function of the characteristics asso- 
ciated with a particular house. For example, the eighth house in a 
woman's horoscope represents longevity of husband but the vice versa 
(i.e. in case of male) is not true. Thus presence of Mars in the 8" house, 
in the birth chart of a woman, may result in death of her husband, but 
it would be a big mistake if the same is predicted for a man. Hence, 
a clear picture of the characteristics, related to each house, must be in 
an astrologer's mind. 

In the following pages, we have enumerated various effects of Mars 
in different houses where its presence is termed as to cause Kuja dosha 
i. e. lagna, 2", 4,7", 8", and the 12". These are general results, which 
occur in a nativity and affect his or her life, especially, the marital life. 
These should be studied along with other considerations, such as the sign 


42 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


which Mars is in, the nature of the sign whether it is fiery, earthy, airy 
or water, etc. It should also be seen if there is any aspect of benefic, 
yogakaraka or malefic planet. 


eet eat ap eetfored atin 3 aot ae 
meat a fe ada aoa a at at // 


Gems are not found on the surface of mountains as Mukta mani is 
not found from every elephant.There is no dearth of men but good 
persons are not available everywhere, similarly there are many 
tress but sandal trees are not found in every forest. 


CHAPTER 2.2.1 


MARS IN THE ASCENDANT 
{LAGNA) 


character, health during childhood and will-power of an indi 
vidual. Thus, broadly speaking, the Kuja Dosha will give results 
which have direct implication on above characteristics. However, let us 
first look into the ideas enunciated by sages: 
Mantreshwar writes in Phaldipika: 


ataaela agetseqreaecaatersraeedl | 


i. e. The subject will have an injured limb; will be short lived, cruel and 
adventurous. 


r | Vhe lagna is associated with the personality, body composition, 


Lagna Varahi Jyotish 
‘qoet cat aet das 


i. e. the native is troubled with furuncles and boils, if Mars occupies 
the lagna. 


Bhrigu Sutram 


@eqm aati: genta: 8 aleqapne: qeoohsts 
vaaraittr: aet waar azead:, wslrat waserreretad 
aaa) ameaa faaetet wleft gofa: 1 rated 
waald sian goursara wsaarnre, Btdt dtafy: 11 


44 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


wnergya semyi! eaerqxarg = ataeparleta: 
gta: 11 «cated asaa erates: faarara 
aafaaraarai; ax wwe watt wuigiicyd 
tata: 11 


i. e. If Mars is in the ascendant the native will have wound marks on 
the body or marks left by boils. He will have a stout body, stealing habit, 
a big navel and reddish hands. He will be cruel, stupid, ill-tempered, 
valorous, wealthy, and unstable, and will suffer from peculiar diseases. 
He will also be of wicked disposition. If Mars is in his own signs (Aries 
or Scorpio) or exalted (Capricorn), the native will be healthy and of 
strong constitution, and will get honours from government enhancing his 
reputation. He will be long-lived. If Mars is in conjunction with a malefic 
or inimical planet, the native will be short-lived, have a few children, 
an ugly look and suffer from disease and rheumatic pains. If Mars is 
exalted in the lagna, the native will be wealthy and fond of sight seeing. 
If Mars is associated with or aspected by malefic or is in enemy's sign, 
the native will suffer from eye diseases. 


Chamatkar  Chintamani 


frase Gt sitttafa cqosatetbasttta: aera ata 
saafeeana: at arate: riaadts warn * ere 
fefa: ve thRortauea vfastt 8 svactfasm: sata 
sfa sta stead: stava aera’ ~ ata aeufufydta: 
Bw fay Peary seeft warlefasira: 3 
i.e. If Mars is posited in lagna, the native has fear from (should be 
cautious about) bamboo stick, iron rod, iron (e.g. handcuff) and fire. He 
has mental agony. His kin and his wife will die. He has problems in the 
head and eyes. Hurdles come at the last stage of his assignments i.e. the 
works do not get accomplished. Even if the subject is very industrious 
and courageous, his failure in his assignments is certain. 


Jageshwar 
Wat Asa oar Aleratatl -— 1 
ay: yf qe wad a wafass 


i.e. the native is healthy and robust. His face is red-coloured 
Varahmihiracharya writes in Brihat Jatak: 


eet Bot =atdday: / 


MARS IN THE ASCENDANT 4 


ie. The subject having Mars in lagna is injured in battlefield. 


Narayan Bhatt 


atenea went: ara: frets 
ax wUtst faae watt aeatreas: 11 


ie. there is mental tension, trouble to the wife, trouble in head, pain in 
the eyes,-and obstacles in doing good work. 
Vaidyanath writes in Jatak Parijat: 


Be: wetupiseatfaara wat wet aactet / 
i.e. If Mars occupies /agna, the native is cruel, courageous, and talkative, 


and has ill health. 
Kalyanvarma writes in Saravali: 


qr: weulsra: taeelisewy:, waertoretdaa: } 
aasta: geht ae -acsotfiad ares 


i.e. if Mars is posited in lagna, the subject would be cruel, courageous, 
stupid, short-lived, egotistical, and with distorted body. If the Mars 
happens to be retrograde, the subject is of beautiful body and if it is well 
fortified, the native is naughty. 

Garga mentions in Garga Hora: 


yqawett eit waetwevge safeatfea: | 
meted sadqeta: aarareal aserel §=wBot | / 
aqearcaead sit? ghefrat faatieas 
eterent se at vist wletscrsacae stag / / 
wadist Ried wo area ua wr) 

weap pomet a yeinty avtiada 1! 


ic. The native will have genital problems, itching or leprosy in navel, 
troubles in the waist because of iron, stone, and will be very ill-tempered. 
He will have blood deficiency in childhood, gastric disorders, and 
birthmark at forehead or genitals. 

Jeevnath mentions in BhavaKotuhalam: 


eng? at waala wet sora s 
werél alerars aerereevstelt eraais 
fametsraf: Rrfa aactwtarcet 1 
warveaaritt uwaafa watever a aa: ft! 


46 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


It means that if Mars is in the /agna, the subject is attacked with an iron 

weapon. The wife of the native dies early. He suffers from headache and 

eye disease though the subject is as courageous and valorous as lion. 
Kashinath writes in Lagna Chandrika: 


ata ast ew «a wat asey faaftfa: | 
svactaral fordert arad §=wearftert: 11 

Meaning, if Mars is posited in lagna, the subject is ugly, liar, and poor, 

and has illicit relations. He does not have any kin. 

Jatakalankar 


ater: Gewat: Werdaqta: Wyse arara: / 
ueedizat areurq atturera after erftea vrdtqis 
If Mars is in the /agna the native is independent and his eyesight is weak. 


He is corrupt morally and spends his life in others' house. He is keen 
on having relations with others' wife, and is physically weak. 


Mansagari 


sereerarlalt aera cacrattat 
fryaadttaseta: Wasa Ber a 
aafa avafasat dtaddt eda 
ubpa qealaétr uder weetta: 11 
The Mansagari says that, if Mars is in lagna, the subject suffers from 
diseases related to stomach and trunk, in childhood. The subject is weak 
bodied, does sinful acts, has dark complexion, degraded, having sensual 
disposition, wears dirty clothes and is always unhappy. 


Gunakar 
aoe atarat: | 
The body is having boils and furuncles. 
Pt. Dhundiraj writes in Jaatakaa Bharanam: 
afta afta anal a wea aaqd weuleaaarey 
aqeyal Bea aqafreratsafergatrerarcrercata * 
ail 
(Ch.17; s1.25) 


A native, with Mars in lagna, has visitations in his mind and wounds 


MARS IN THE ASCENDANT 47 


and mole on his skin. He is aggressive and adamant. He is unstable and 
keeps on wandering and remains disturbed. 


Stree Jaatakam 


ceo sacred red ant anraa ag: aractty 1 
weustrag wert farvat yegerarta aed warkterat 
Wii 


If Mars is placed in the /agna of a woman she is of ill temper and suffers 
from various diseases. There is much bleeding during menses. She fails 
to influence her husband. She may be divorced. She is cruel and 
vainglorious. 


Comments and Conclusion 


If Mars is posited in the lagna or the Is house, it is likely to give the 
following results. 


1. The native has to undergo surgery and suffers from injury, wounds, 
boils, cuts, scars, and hypertension. 

2. He is impulsive, liar, ill-tempered, stubborn, of independent view, 
arrogant, cruel, and hard-hearted and does not hesitate in speaking 
bitter truths. He can not tolerate criticism and negative replies. His 
likes and dislikes are very strong. 

3. He has unhappy married life. The native cannot enjoy conjugal 
bliss due to bad temper and unyielding nature. 

4. Though he is brave, courageous, and hard working, he has no 
patience. 


waa araeufa: veuatadiom =| 
vbwareereta feat UGTeTyl! 
Youth, financial riches, ownership and haughtiness, anyone of 
these alone happen to be the reason of disaster. What can be said 
where all the four remain together. 


CHAPTER 2.22 


MARS IN THE SECOND HOUSE 


horoscope. And probably this aspect has been most neglected by 

the astrologers. Here it should be stated that south Indian astrolo- 
gers give weightage to Kuja dosha of the 2na house. Let us now see what 
the sages say on the aspect: 


Phaldeepika 


r | Nhe second house Mars is very important, particularly in a woman's 


wat faqeat fafiatet eet wsocirfia: 1 
The subject will look ugly, be deprived of learning and wealth. He will 


be dependent on bad people. 
Narayan Bhatt mentions in Chamatkar Chintamani: 


uea et fedtusird stonee: sila: sidqs aca 
faqaret cet acct at ata wera wana faved fe 
a fefaq wafers: raat wee: ale: wget 
eat ove anita yous waa ore arad vata, 
am att eum: ert rata a aq at watfaarty 
egaivatore stafa sta atta: aelt AL WE soa: 
wataa: ya: aatsfe faa waa a atte 
adq silaeeetat: 9 BCR: 11 
Meaning, a person having Mars posited in second house, has no 
enjoyment of family even if he has one (i.e. family) and similarly no 


MARS IN THE SECOND HOUSE 49 


enjoyment of money even if he has some (i.e. if in good quantity). The 
family and money is like a necklace in the neck of a monkey. He has 
no family happiness and pleasures drawn from money. The native, with 
Mars in the 2"! house, will always dominate his opponents in debate. 
The defeated person will never show his face to the native 

Jeevnath writes in Bhavakotuhalam: 


weet ‘ada: uwsrafa aerarea Aoret | 

was? faded canara: feourcasy- 11 

awa 486oyaarere Palacio Praferey 

ae yard uaaahratarecorn: 1 1 
If Mars is posited in 2" house of the subject, he squanders money he 
receives from his kins. Just like a monkey who breaks pearl necklace 


by assuming it to be ordinary, he misuses this money. 
Varahmihir describes in Brihatjatak: 


efera 9 xaeerstizat / 


Person will eat stale food. 
Vaidyanath mentions in Jatak Parijat: 


argacett teaucan:. witt wot ferrets 


The native suffers from body ache & eye disease, and develops bad blood 
with wife & relatives. 


Jageshwar: 
at @eadct awa a2, aa aftrra aet 
woe atl 
aaqq aauatswatfanraraa, Ws ge 
yaad eel aa! 


Tf no benefic has an aspect on, or is in conjunction, with Mars, the subject 
has injury in the face, eye, right shoulder or ear. 
Parashar writes in Brihat Hora Parashar: 


‘CALA LSTA’ 
There is loss of money. 


Pt. Dhundiraj mentions in Jaatakaa Bharanam: 


rita eansza au fattaat eenfafadtrars 


50 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


aq@yatfacattrituaaatieacam saterercaat:— "= // 


The subject is poor, dependent on wicked people, and cruel. He easily 
picks fight with others. He has evil mentality. 


Bhrigu Sutram 


faméta mrsag: woita ya: fasta ada 
atxduttert srafters 

egergee «cere: walter eaeit § fearara, 
atafaetra: 14 

amurgaatagrige? tata: | weeds) 
ofxat ee 3oarafar at wad wealT, 
arugweartaratteta: 11 


Though he is not learned, he has money. If sixth lord is associated with 
Mars, the native suffers from eye disease. However, his eyes remain all 
right, if Mars is aspected by a benefic. If Mars is in Capricorn or Scorpio, 
the subject may suffer from diseases related to eye and teeth. He may 
incur wrath of the king and should be cautious with fire or thieves. He 
will lose money and suffer because of wife. If the lord of the second 
house is a malefic, the native will be deprived of married life. 

Kalyan Verma writes in Saravali: Poverty, eating stale food, de- 
formed face, being dependent on bad people and lack of knowledge are 
the characteristics of this native. 

Jataka Parijat: Subject will be engaged in wandering, pursuit of 
agriculture, metallurgy and he is hot headed. 


Comments and Conclusion 


The 2™ house or the ‘Dhan Bhava' is related to family, speech, face, 
throat, eyes, and education. Thus the adverse placement of Mars would 
make an impact on these dimensions of marital life. A break up of impact 
as suggested by sages is: 


(1) Impact on Financial position 


* Subject is devoid of wealth or he cannot enjoy money in spite of 
having it. P 

¢ He has to be dependent on bad people. 

¢ His source of income is through working under bad people. 

¢ Cannot make good use/any use of money received from the kin. 


MARS IN THE SECOND HOUSE 51 


¢ He misuses his money. 

¢ Agriculture / metal related work / profession related to debate (such 
as lawyer), trade, industry and wandering are fit for the native. He 
may live abroad. 

¢ Subject is poor and eats low quality food. 

¢ Subject may be a gambler. 

¢ He may suffer loss of money and has fear from king or thieves. 

¢ Subject does not take to work or delays his work. 


(2) Impact on physique 


¢ Subject may have an ugly or deformed face. 

¢ Subject may not be able to speak fluently. 

¢ May suffer from body ache, or eye disease. 

¢ May suffer from injury in the face, eye, night shoulder and ear. This 
happens when Mars has neither a benefic aspect nor a conjunction 
with a benefic. 


(3) Impact on nature / behaviour etc. 


¢ The snbject may have ill temperament. 

¢ The snbject may be enemy of wicked people. He is in constant fight 
with his enemies. 

¢ He may be cruel. 

¢ The subject is truthful but fool or lacks knowledge. 

¢ The subject is fond of enjoying life in various ways. 

¢ The subject may have evil mentality. 


(4) Impact on Family & Marriage 


* If the lord of the 2! house is a malefic, the subject may be without 
wife or is devoid of conjugal bliss. 

¢ Subject may have no enjoyment of family life even if he has one. 

e He develops bad blood with relatives including wife. 

¢ May not have healthy children (the Mars in second house has an 
aspect on fifth house) 


We are in total agreement with the financial dimensions of impact as 
the 2" house is "Dhan Sthan" and adverse placement of Mars is sure 
to make a mark on this important constituent of marital life. If extremely 
adverse, the couple may find it difficult to keep the wolf from the door 
for entire life. The situation aggravates if their horoscopes are not 
properly matched. Some sages have mentioned that the subject may be 


52 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


rich and lustful but this seems to be true for even signs. Similarly, the 
subject may be deprived of children if he has feminine Moon sign. The 
natives, with odd Moon signs, are likely to be blessed with children. As 
far as professions are concemed, agriculture (and animal husbandry) and 
business related to buildings are associated with Gemini (Mithun), 
Cancer (Karka) and Aquarius (Kumbha). The professions related to 
machinery, wood, coal, and navigation are associated with Aries, Leo 
and Sagittarius. The medical profession may be related with Cancer, 
Scorpio and Pisces. If the subject happens to have even sign in the second 
house, he is likely to lead a happy life, accumulate wealth and have 
farsightedness, truthfulness and wound marks. The eating of bad quality 
food has been predicted by most of the sages. This, however seems to 
be for odd signs. Most maladies, related to the impact on family and 
marriage, are associated with odd signs, though the extreme happenings 
like disharmonious relations with wife are possible, if the sign is fiery. 
Further, the aspect, on the 5th, gs" & 9" house would damage subject's 
health and luck respectively. This would be more evident if there is a 
conjunction with malefic / debilitated / posited in enemy sign. The 
second bhavastha Mars assumes great importance during horoscope 
matching: one can not afford to neglect this aspect as it may result in 
financial misery; affect health of the couple, have- impact on the 
offspring; and cause disturbances in family life and incompatibility 
among marital partners. 


wialctd ASE: = "SeEe Yat: / 
wre pl sd Gletsa ~~ 11 
The second bhavastha Mangal, usually, damages the health of the life 


partner and increases family problems. Generally, there are differences 
between the husband and the wife, and money problems. 


te ote ate ate ote te 
Ws Me Be ee me Me 


oreittarad Gul sell] Alea AAA SSH | 
fret urssuftrerety, atreff a fastaetet ss 


Servants are tried on being deputed for a work, family members 
at the time of grief, friends in trouble and wife is tried when 
money is lost. 


CHAPTER 2:22.53 


MARS IN THE FOURTH HOUSE 


n the matter of marital aspect, the 4™ house is called ‘Sukh-Sthan’ 

and thus the 'Kuja dosha' related to 4" house cannot be neglected. 

The materialistic pleasures-house, vehicle, and household goods- 
dominate the life of a person in Kaliyuga and thus this has an inseparable 
concern in horoscope matching. 

As per our vision, let us first look into the views of sages on the 
topic: 


Phaldipika 
VIE Alot gala. ATES: 


The person is without friends, mother, lands, happiness, house and 
vehicles. 


Lagna_ Varahi 
age yea alftfar: / 

Mars in the fourth house deprives one of happiness. 

Jataka — Bharanam 
gw yecaedad: wart “welat woaciaracay 
vafrme fea ane Vast  BaaTA Are! 


If Mars is in the fourth house, the native remains unhappy with his friends 
and vehicle. He lives in foreign land and suffers from heart disease. He 
is physically weak. 


x4 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


Mantreshwar 


wee fageq ma avft- yaaa aed: 1) 


He has no trend, mother, happimess, land, house or vehicte. 


Chamatkar  Chintamani 


wet aad: atta: gdtd? agefeenet aerdas 
aaa Tet: Uae: epapea: fe feda 
Beret: | 
aed yeeat wet wey-Prye-amale! 
alia ya a fefaq fafaeet ae afrarenrqs 
Us: eSelg BUI A et A qt DW WAG! 
afta arente: at: euaeseyi: ast! 
If afflicted Mars was posited in the fourth house, there would not be 
any beneficial outcome, even though the other planets are favourable. 


He will get nothing from his friends, though he receives honours, land 
and dresses from the king. 


Stree Jataka 


adaefet sacrat waa: arét satel 

casa - sara wieeta Bren faerar 

faevat actietteat wad arineat | / 
The woman having Mars in the fourth house is of weak body. She 
remains unhappy with her own acts and is cast down by the people 


around her. Such hostile attitude of the people causes her intense 
anguish. 


Jeevnath 


aga yt stalaward wer waa: | 
feat wirat: aadaqgeareactsza: / 
gecamtq wer ustafa a ffs 
fratyerarueat: ateftadtaeia ata cell! 


Even if other eight planets, including the Sun, are very strong, they 
cannot give any positive result collectively or individually, because the 
destructive power of Mars dominates all other planets. The subject does 
not get any benefits from friends and relatives. He has fear from enemies, 


MARS IN THE FOURTH HOUSE 55 
but there is one positive point - the subject may get awards and dresses 
from the king and the rich people 


Kalyan Varma 


ase ukeoclea stata agqelse arecafadtr:" 1 
afag - wv: daa: wRasaredt war qeu: /' 4 
A person, with Mars in the fourth house, has no relatives, no food to 


eat, clothes to wear and vehicle to move. Melancholy and sadness shall 
be visited upon him and he will have no roof over his head. 


Mansagari 


wsatata deaivepaeet a ata a srafas 
wpeaatoft aoydiax g: wu 

aaa asa —oftaadargra: 

wear wal qeiaa: wedi/ 


The presence of Mars in the 4 house spoils the intelligence of an 
individual. He is unhappy and wanders from one place to another in 
search of peace, which he does not get anywhere. His fortune declines; 
he has to serve the downgraded. He is keen on having relations with 
others' wives and grabbing their money. 


Kashinath 
agqat yud eo: fratraatst. = fofota: 
qucretarya xetertt a arad 11 


His complexion is dark; he suffers from windy and phlegmatic com- 
plaints; has a lot of enemies, wanders aimlessly, has no son and is 
libidinous. 


Jaidev 
ayaa arsuerctt fawa et: gaetala spyd/ / 


The subject has no vehicle, happiness and money. He lacks clarity of 
thought process. 


Vaidyanath 


att acerd g aeefsa: etferofa: ettetare/ 


56 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


The subject has no family. He is under control of his wife and is valorous. 
Garga 
wot aett eprarottat ae: Aart 
The subject is always dependent on agriculture. 
Jiages h war 
werta fae, fasteat,ue aa geiid! 
wt ga fe arent aa Pra ater 
wt aci faaa ftrat eftaat at We! 
afer at ameratat warts) 


The house of the native will either be damaged or set on fire. While 
friends would bring him no happiness, other types of comforts would 
elude him. He lacks intelligence though he earns some profit through 
land. 


Vashishtha 
ata: gfat ager / 
When Mars is posited in the fourth house, the native gets good clothes. 
HillaJataka 
aaat agefsied sract ures ga / 
Brother dies in the eighth year. 
Parashar 
agt agar eagafeelacra:) 


Mars in the fourth house causes death of co-boms, increases enemies 
and loss of money. 


Gunakar 


tage: isa xterra: eagets 


One is deprived of happiness and remains tense. 


Narayan Bhatt 


weurae .zepferetatq apferarertels | 


MARS IN THE FOURTH HOUSE 37 


Land and clothes are obtained with King's favour.. 
Punjraj 


am: waanged fracatt ar ga ow weremt: | 
aedfara god: wxterart zed ae») 


The positioning of Mars in the 4" house would result in long limbs. The 
subject has no enjoyment of his body. He keeps patience in the 
battlefield. He is poor, strongly built, lacks magnanimity, and always 
borrows money from others. 


Bhrigusutram 


apefeca sweet aw fratt argues 
wiergad we wyeare: iferetorerfeet, atadétet: , ee 

uewélea: , oftefajsara: 1 sat caatt estrada Praaizt 

avsaata, atiata, aradtery: 1 ataer 


wiqgeyanaqarer: reap awe fersraret; azee 
para ast eager wRenelt aeadta: 1 


If Mars is placed in the fourth house, there is conflict in the family. In 
the 8" year of subject's life, tragedy strikes his father and mother is 
seriously ill. If benefics are in conjunction with Mars, one has to live 
away from home. While he does not suffer from any ailments or disease, 
he remains homeless and without money. He has to live in an old and 
damaged house. If Mars is exalted or is in his own or friendly house 
or is in conjunction with benefics, the native may have vehicle and house 
and his mother lives long. But if Mars is debilitated or associated with 
malefic or the lord of 8", death of mother may take place. If associated 
with a benefic, subject has desire for vehicle. He has bad relations with 
brother and relatives. The subject settles abroad leaving his own country 
and also remains naked. 


Comments and Conclusion 


The fourth house or the ‘Sukh Sthan' is directly concerned with 
materialistic pleasures, which have now become an essential component 
for the success of marital life in this 'Kaliyug’. The different features 
as pointed by different sages for Mars in the fourth house are: 


i. Impact on materialistic pleasures 


¢ His house may be burnt. 


58 


AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


He may live in other's house. 

He may be deprived of garments and good food. 

He may have to live away from home. 

He may be short of money. 

He may have to live in a damaged house. 

He may be without vehicle or land. 

lf Mars is exalted / in own house/ in conjunction with benefics, 
he gets materialistic pleasure. 

He may be dependent on others for money. 

He may have to depend on agriculture. 

He may get some profit through land, using intelligence. 
Comforts elude him. 

He may get rewards of materialistic pleasures through king and rich 
people. 


. Impact on Marriage & family: 


The subject is unlucky from the point of view of relatives and 
friends. He will always have strained relations with them and apart 
from sufferings and sadness he would not get anything from them. 
His marital life is spoiled due to relatives. 

He may wander from country to country. (This may also be a bone 
of contention in his married life). 

Lack of materialistic pleasure noted above may also cause serious 
strains in married life. 

His mother may die. This may not only be detrimental to formation 
of his personality and attitude towards women as psychology says, 
but also on the composition of the family, which the couple is 
connected with. 

His fortune may decline leading to strains in marital life. 

He may be anxious to be associated with others’ wives. This aspect 
is further activated by the fact that the subject may be highly 
sexually inclined. 

The subject may have no family. 

The subject may be under the control of his wife tf Mars is well 
fortified and associated with benefics. 

Family of the subject may be disturbed. 


. Impact on physique & behaviour etc. 


The subject may be short lived if Mars is debilitated / in enemy 
sign / or is associated with a malefic. 


MARS IN THE FOURTH HOUSE 59 


¢ The subject may be dark complexioned, strongly built with long 
limbs. 

e He may have no enjoyments of his body. 

* He may have to suffer from ailments and diseases. 

* He has a lot of enemies but keeps patience in the battlefield. 

* He may lack magnanimity. 

* He lacks mental stability and hankers after materialistic pleasures. 


Our observations 


Looking at the previons analysis, our readers must have noticed that the 
evil tendencies of Mars get aggravated if it is in male fiery signs / in 
conjunction with a malefic / debilitated / in enemy signs. The results 
get reversed or at least neutralised if Mars is exalted / associated with 
a benefic / in friendly signs. Further many good results can be expected 
if the native happens to have Mars in even signs as the fourth house. 

Though Mars has been considered to be the ‘karak' (significator) 
of land, honse, agriculture, and animals, our assessment is just opposite. 
The basic nature ~of this hot & fiery planet is destructive and thus in 
normal state, it is not the facilitator of anything but a destroyer of the 
materialistic aspect. It is only in exceptionally benefic or fortified 
permutations that Mars becomes a facilitator of these. It is a destroyer 
by nature like a fire, which does not distinguish between animal and man, 
and living and non-living things. We strongly feel that disastrous and 
unbalanced placement of Mars can render of the couple's life unhappy. 
Further, the full aspect of Mars on the 7” house may lead to incompat- 
ibility among the marrying partners. However, we give only 50% 
weightage to the 4" house Mars and thus the native having Mars in the 
4" house is considered a light Mangli. 


eee eee 


ert@ea at agela wWeetwratyr ars 
stasex fead pute arereras paths: 11 
The human life is precious. Its everyday is significant. Therefore 


to make everyday worthy one must study, and/or perform rituals 
like daan (donation), yagya etc. 


CHAPTER 2.2.4 


MARS IN THE SEVENTH HOUSE 


marriage and thus unbalanced 'Kuja Dosha’ in the 7" house can 

have grave consequences upon the marital life. The sages have 
indicated the evils that are associated with the position of Mars in the 
7" house. Presence of malefic Mars in the 7” house makes an individual 
strongest mangli and consequently widowhood, loss of life partner, 
separation, murder, accidental death, and carnal crimes etc are indicated. 
This is the worst position of Mars, if not properly balanced, in the other 
birth chart. Let us gloss over various aphorisms told by different sages: 


ik seventh house pertains to conjugal bliss, husband, wife, and 


Phaldeepika 


arerfraurt woratseedseaat a aqiearet / 


The person is born to do improper acts. He suffers from various diseases 
and wanders from place to place and loses his wife. 


Chamatkar Chintamani 


uat ~attectta:ea: eattfat afeat ~ vererdat: 
asatisarst: AE: Ya: Yat: store: wearer, 
aa qeufact: eatyat: arem:, seta 
yougstanan watfarra: ets: , Serer 
wmesen a actlas: statu: al seleresyda 
faba ube faaréa ego, afeta:- araréat: 
warta faqfa: a wiqer sere Farq seer: 1 


MARS IN THE SEVENIH HOUSE 6l 


fearerrara ~<a aterqat agera’ «=faeereettstaa 
pfaatra: 11 
The subject has to stay away from his home, for a long time, as a result 
of some business engagement or any other reason, after marriage. One 
has to face repeated defeats by his enemies. The 7” house Mars leads 
to death of spouse. 
Jeevnath writes in Bhavakotuhalam: 


et warn waafa wottsdtargat 

uaed, ye waa tyrraataag: | 

aa otaradt ufarsardt weata 

fefqut arfeurefe weaegearferea: 11 

at ‘utaepeafata: 1’ Waray! 
The person, having Mars in the 7” house, is very unlucky. He is defeated 
by enemies, deprived of wife and has to live abroad. He has cruel 
mentality and leaves his business. He is engaged in adultery with very 


young women. Generally the partners are short tempered, complex 
natured, mysterious and of independent and vague ideas. 


Lagna Varahi 
wat yedet art: / 
Mars in the seventh house makes the woman adulterous. 


Mansagari 


The subject's wife will die and he faces sorrow as a result of this tragedy. 
He is always in troubles. He commits lot of atrocities and has belligerent 
temperament. If Mars is exalted or in its own sign, the death of wife 
does not take place, but she is perfidious and ugly. 


Varahmihir 


The wife insults the subject. 


62 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


Kalyan Varma 


‘qacred weratsareeat stafa g: Raa: au: 3 
stfea: aaa: epspagetata wart sitatss’ 


The 7” house Mars results in the death of subject's wife. He is sickly 
and weak, involved in sinful acts, unhappy, and poor. 


Mantreshwar 


‘“‘sofaaeea  rteotratsedseast yaararg /'' 


The subject does improper acts, remains sickly, wanders and his wife 
dies. 


Jaidev 
‘‘qaarmate waa saatsReratae aqots’’ 


Though the subject has a home, he remains sickly, does destructive acts 
and has fear from enemies. 


Vaidyanath 
wettqautaeriet wrefi: arated agforcts 
The wife has to weep and is fond of war. 
HillaJatak 
wafieferd at ararearet a aaa: | / 
The wife dies in the 37 year. 
Kashinath 
‘sxhrydt wast ftrereatsfrpt rary / 
odladtdtdaena ferofortsft srasere: / /' 


The subject suffers from blood related diseases; is of ill temperament, 
and works under wicked people. He is a cheat and lacks qualities. 


Parashar 
“Raat arearenn’ oftaradtaad aftaredtt weret/ 
gota geare wfsatedear/ |" 


Death of the wife takes place. The subject satisfies his sexual urge 
through other women. His wife has well-developed breasts. 


MARS IN THE SEVENTH HOUSE 63 


Jageshwar 


‘mat aga: wat euq aaet frar 
qaaprraicraed aqltat/ 
WW wee reettaq rwaaq faareficad 
WHT SAT eat / 
ga at amr am at warm aeat 
weafcvern ga: eraq //" 
The death of the wife takes place. The subject suffers from diseases 
related to digestion and scars on the body. The subject remains unhappy. 
He does not get any fame in business; gets insulted as a result of physical 
torture by enemies, and loses competition with enemies. 


Vashishtha 
ala: fea uaaren arat aeetferat 
aqucala a! 

Wife is of bad character and the subject does not have many children. 


Punjraj 


nareadas: itat area earvlt 
fiaavionisaat quart at fauafse afeaet at 
attartonteaa sephrgt gastratvard § @taréte: 
add aed: Cad I 
Wife will be full of youth and energy even if marriage takes place late. 
The subject's wife suffers from bile or dies in arson or suffers from 
diseases related to vagina. The death of wife is certain. 


'Vridha Yavan Jataka' 
‘sre wedfratvataRadatad etateqs 
aIiIenatag: waiad arrntaestat 9=wetta/ /' 
The subject suffers from mental agony. He is humiliated by enemy. He 


is bodily weak and troubled by sorrows including those related to wife 
& children. He may suffer fire injury at the age of 17°. 


Stree Jatakam 
sed ferat 2 eevuit gatq: aet wad 
faaat a ately 


“4 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


ge vasa fasda stat yoferaraft 
aoratctar ass 


If Mars is in the 7" house in a girl's chart she becomes widow after 
marriage. She is crooked by nature; deprived of wealth and qualities. 


Bhrigu Sutram 


vaaredist: uwraat wad raa¥l 

vaarerfer: repstaa = ottatats 

strerere: faeerara: 1 faoraae: aarrafra: , 
wifa: 1 searlracagdtt eysrad urdett 
Bamtaeia §=waxete: rate zara 
qacapediedt geetlio: 1 storgqzaws: | aeqad 
ge Rreaqap: paqeu eeyscrae egy ase 
wa wieder etastat; aq eazaa 
agearate: adhe: sent: estese a ate: | 


Wife suffers from body aches. If Mars is in Scorpio, death of wife takes 
place. If Mars is a benefic (yogakaaraka), death of wife does not occur, 
but death of children takes place. One has to live in foreign countries. 
The body of such subject is weak. He is addicted to liquor and has 
belligerent nature. He is a homosexual. If Mars is in conjunction with 
or aspected by Saturn, the native does intercourse with animals. He does 
kissing on genitals. If Mars is associated with Ketu, he does sexual acts 
even with a woman having menstruation. If the Mars is in conjunction 
with Venus, the subject has to see the death of many of his concubines. 
He is weak and vain. 

However if aspected by a benefic, the above-mentioned adversities 
do not take place. 


Comments and Conclusion 


The presence of Mars in the 7" may result in serious tragedies if proper 
matching of horoscopes is not done. Our sages have given a compre- 
hensive list of the results expected in this situation. An analytical 
summary of such results is given below: 


A. Impacts on personal dimensions and nature etc. 


1. The subject may suffer from diseases and is of weak constitution. 
2. The subject may be ugly and may suffer form bile and bums. 


10. 


MARS IN THE SEVENTH HOUSE 65 


He may suffer from blood-related diseases. 
He may suffer from diseases related to digestion. 


. The subject may commit a lot of atrocities. 


He may have a belligerent temperament and may get involved in 
destructive acts. 


. He may be a cheat. 
. He may have to suffer form burns at the age of 17". 


He may be addicted to liquor. 
He may suffer from mental agony. 


B. Impact on materialistic dimension 


1. 
2: 


2 


Subject may be poor. 

Subject may live in many countries. 

May be devoid of wealth or may get it from bad means / working 
under bad people. 

Subject has no fame in business or may leave it. 


. Subject works under wicked people. 


He is very unlucky and may have wandering mentality. 
He may lack qualities. 
Subject may be proudy. 


C. Impact on Family and Marriage 


1 


2. 


. The subject may be engaged in sinful and improper acts. This 


aspect can act as fire in the marital life of the individual. 
The wife of the subject may die. Many ‘keeps’ are there, if Mars 
is in conjunction with or aspected by Venus. 


. The subject may have few children & other agonies related to 


children. 

The subject may suffer insults at the hands of his wife. She may 
be belligerent and cruel. 

The subject's wife may suffer from many diseases. 


. Subject may have illicit relations with other women to satisfy his 


sexual urge. 


. The wife of the subject may be of loose character. 
. He may be at the zenith of immoral acts if: 


a. Mars is in conjunction with or aspected by Saturn. 

b. Mars is in conjunction with or aspected by Ketu. The subject 
may be homosexual / have intercourse with animals / kisses 
genitals. 


6 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


c. Subject may have intercourse with a woman going through 
menstruation cycle. 
9. He may fight with women. 


We agree with the fact that 7 house Mars has the potential to cause 
harm to the married life to any extent. The matching of horoscopes of 
such mangli individuals is a must before marriage. As already explained, 
the results mentioned above get cancelled or reduced (depending also 
on the other combinations in the horoscope), if Mars is associated with 
a benefic or is exalted, well fortified / or is in its own sign or is 
yogakaaraka. In the same way, the possibilities of the above are greatly 
enhanced if Mars is associated with a malefic, is debilitated or is in 
enemy sign. As far as Rashis are concerned, the above listed evils are 
expected if the snbject happens to have Taurus, Cancer, Virgo, Sagit- 
tarius or Pisces sign in the seventh house. The bad results are likely to 
be absent or much reduced if the native has any other Rashi in the 7” 
house. Mars in these Rashis generally canse the maladies like wife's 
death, two marriages, and defeat at the hands of his enemies. He earns 
bad name in business and suffers from diseases. The native remains 
poverty-stricken and has to bear insults from his bad- natured wife. Mars 
in this house aspects the lagna, the 'Dhan Bhava' and the 10" house. 
Thus, we strongly feel that the nnbalanced or unmatched marriage will 
lead to financial disasters, deformities in the body, decline in character 
of the native, accidents, boils and pimples. It is our experience that the 
sponse of the subject is often very beautiful bnt of bad nature or 
character. Further,’ Mars of Aries, Scorpio, Capricorn and Aquarins 
emboldens the possibility of second marriage. By nature, Gemini, Virgo, 
Sagittarins, Capricorn, Scorpio and Leo 'Rashis' make a Martian native 
intelligent, arrogant, grumpy and unfriendly. 


The weightage given to the placement of Mars in the 7" honse is 
100% and thus the native, having Mars in the 7" house, is a strong 
mangli. Unless the subject marries after getting his or her horoscope 
properly matched with that of his or her sponse-to-be, many marital 
maladies are likely to occur. 


fan frat varet a strat fix zeg / 
enti acaine: ft eat fri yaecaa / / 


Inaforeign place knowledge is like a friend: wife is a friend at 
home. For a sick patient medicine is his friend and for one 
who is going to die Dharma only is his friend. 


CHAPTER 2.2.5 


MARS IN THE 
EIGHTH HOUSE 


in the 8"" house in case of women is more dangerous, as it is related 

0 “Maangalya” or marital happiness in general and to the span of 
husband's life in particular. The widowhood symptoms in a woman's 
horoscope would consequently be related to the ‘Kuja dosha' of 8" 
house. Further, it should be noted here that the 8" house '‘Kuja dosha' 
is associated with several grave consequences, if remained unbalanced 
in case of a man's horoscope, too. It is for this reason that the various 
aphorisms have given a grim picture of the placement of Mars in the 
8" house. These aphorisms are given below: 


[ has already been mentioned elsewhere in the book that the Mars 


Phaldeepika 

Bagqeecaisey 1 akee- eet orerferieea: / 
The person has deformed body. He is short lived, poor and cursed by 
people. 


Chamatkar Chintamani 


seat afi: sitta: dq aca faeret stot sifa 
xet een: waa: feo: 1 warca gemeecda 
qauparlaaiserpead | uepa: arfera: sft aeat 
fe a egad egka sata: waetata att 
svat: fast: aad weer fast: werata 
serel: 11 


68 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


If Mars is posited in the 8" house, benefics like Venus and Jupiter, cannot 
give their positive results because Mars becomes not only an impediment 
to the results of a benefic but also acts as an active malefic. The friends 
of the subject do enemy-like acts though he gives them a lot of honour. 
While he chooses right means to achieve the desired ends, he cannot 
achieve this goal and he faces a lot of hurdles in his life. 

Jeevnath writes in Bhavakotuhalam: 


“Camnga qet ofa get: fe aqea: 
weqedaretustatataarestt teraz 

aad «= ava canaftrac: fe a aga 
vat wdsfa varcat aftaceet’’/ / 


The different benefics like Venus, Jupiter, Mercury cannot support 
the native, if Mars is posited in the 8" house, for Mars reduces 
the strength of benefics by his malefic prowess and becomes 
impediment to the good effects of the other planets. The native suffers 
from many incurable and serious diseases. Business gives no success to 
the subject. 

Varahmihir describes in Brihat Jatak: 


" eaecrenat ~ fetefetat’’ 7 
The subject has few off springs. 


HillaJatak 
qafaet am'‘at ay cyp@atea: GH: / 
He dies at the age of 25. « 
Jaideva 


“otirataatiaa: weft ficat Preuaa: 
gota 1"’ 


The subject suffers from blood-related diseases. He is fickle-minded, 
cruel and full of evil thoughts, hence condemnable. 


Mantreshwar 
‘ererpaps awe: ader aasitafll’ arora! 


The subject has distorted body (i.e. diseased). He is poor, short-lived and 
condemned by people. 


MARS IN THE EIGHTH HOUSE o 


Jataka Bharanam 


aera castzatgetacaa waarttst sltawa wale: | 
qe wera woot a ferece oer 
vateat atfectt atceet fsesrets | 


If Mars is posited in the 8" house, the native has defective eyes. He is 
unfortunate, troubled by blood-diseases, of low intellect and commits 
sinful acts. 


Kashinath 
“seat aoe pdt cacugy: ergvifsa: / 
axeveer: utaaterofoitsftsracete: | /' 
The subject is infected with leprosy, is short-lived, troubled by enemies, 
poor, sickly and lacks quality. 
Jyotirvivek Ratnakar 
vaaatda welt xe ativr atts 
aafa ferera sita afteet osx: | / 
If debilitated or weak Mars is situated in the 8" house, the native dies 
in water (of drowning). 
Kalyan Varma 
Caftruriserg: wetRidtapadeata i 
faeces Pufaact atafa yar ertwaaa: 11’' 
The subject is diseased, short-lived, does sinful acts and lives in sorrow 
and melancholy. 
Mansagari 
If debilitated Mars is posited in the 8" house, the subject dies as a result 
of drowning. If Mars is in Aries or Capricorn or Scorpio, the arms and 
legs of the individual are blue (the skin turns blue as a result of leprosy.) 


and he is long-lived. By 'Pathantar' (difference in scripts) the subject 
gets gold, silver and is a 'Bhogi' (fond of materialistic pleasures). 


Jageshwar 
rie wei fe eystaca oll We vara: ant 
HAG Ger: | 


7 AN INSIGHT INIO KUJA DOSHA 


yaeed aeraala prt ua yep effet 
a facsa: 11 


The subject is physically weak, poor, and his relatives are his enemies. 
His ambitions do not get fulfilled despite much effort. 


Vashishtha 


udyet fers: vam fanaa qeyfterat faced 
fea geqhays 

erabrada ueitfsacraerret 
wivdlattaalaatarnrorag tt?’ 


The native becomes wicked and his body organs suffer from pain due 
to weapon injury. He is shom of happiness and health. 


Lagna Varahi 
eaeq = yarteatapor/ 
The native has few children. 


Stree Jatakam 


aey feat sacra: wad 

waa war yee fexetrerays 
aRea gM aa me stot 
fatirea owfsa facftat a st 


With Mars in the 8", the female native is ridden with many diseases. 
She is of weak constitution, without lustre, without husband, violent and 
poor. 


Garga 


‘again yqeuiacta: erate qarlefsretsorai 
atl 

eerownetyfeott udtsr avucaeat ae 
wera ead ft?’ 


The subject dies either from weapon injury or from burns or leprosy or 
decay of body organs. The wife of the subject suffers from pains and 
obtains ‘Adhogati’ (painful end). 


MARS IN THE EIGHTH HOUSE 71 


The Mars in ‘Ashtam Bhava’ (eighth honse) is death cansing. 
Kashyap 


"l. worerg, 2. swearewnd, 3. waeeard, 4. 
firaerqa: , s. faaxusafa, 6. ateraatd, 7. Bret, 
8. euvuriada:, 9. ifarurara, to. yartara, 11. 
fawetarta: , 12. ~aleverwng ate yey: = (cara 
OLHATA |"! 


If Mars is in the 8" honse in different Rashis or signs (ie. Mesha to 
Meena) different results, as per Rashis, follow: 


Mesha (Aries) : Death in war/ by accident or fire/ by weapon. 

Vrishabha (Taurus) : Death while resisting the theft of cows, by illness, 
cut, operation, septic or boils. 

Mithun (Gemini): Death in his own hand, by air crash, hostage, by 
skin infection. 


Karka (Cancer) : Death as a result of enmity, death in foreign land, 
insanity, madness. 

Singh (Leo) : Death from snake bite. The native meets with 
accident but is not killed. Does not hamper marital 
life. 

Kanya (Virgo) : Death due to stone injury, suicide, and enmity. 

Tula (Libra) : Death due to injury from wood, woman and 
poison. 


Vrishchik (Scorpio): Death from falling into well, or water, or dropsy. 
May give long life, too. 

Dhanu (Sagittarins): Death due to a wall crash or from burns. 

Makar (Capricorn) : Death due to genital diseases, enmity, and accident. 

Kumbh (Aquarius) : Death due to consuming poison, suicide, or 
hypertension. 

Meena (Pisces) : Death dune to injury received from thieves, 
drowning in river or pond or abscess in liver. 


Bhrigu Sutram 


aavtat: nerary: 1 frafea apeuseta: | 
He yas aragateter: | aeyewaya: | 
wae Ay: 1 eyeayd esrtoags etary: | 
aqeuleqte: wut wigd saraenidg 


R AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


aaaate wa: yNpcsftwet ati strarftret 
wagd yourg: vt 


The subject suffers from gastric trouble, eye and urine related diseases. 
Tragedy strikes his father. The native enjoys pleasures through women. 
He dies from sword injury. However, if in conjunction with benefics, 
the subject has healthy body, long life and prosperity in house. If in 
malefic Rashi or in conjunction with or aspected by a malefic, the native 
suffers from Vaat (gastric disorders)/ Chhaya (tuberculosis) and from 
pain at the time of urinating. However, the subject has long life if the 
lord of 8" is powerful. 


Comments and Conclusion 


The list of various impacts of the placement of Mars in the 8" house 
is as follows: 


i. Impact on physique and nature etc.: 


¢ The subject may have deformed or weak body. 

¢ The subject may be short-lived. 

¢ The subject may suffer from many serious diseases, which cannot 
be cured. 

¢ Subject may suffer from blood-related diseases, eye trouble, urine 
and kidney trouble and tuberculosis. 

¢ Subject may suffer from weapon injury. 

e Subject may be cursed by people. 

¢ Subject may be fickle minded. 

¢ Subject may suffer from leprosy. 

¢ Subject is a Bhogi and wicked in nature 


2. Impact on Materialistic pleasures, finances, profession etc.: 


. Subject may be poor. 

¢ Subject's desires remain unfulfilled. 
Subject is doomed to failures and faces a lot of hurdles. 

e Friends may turn enemies. 

- Subject's kin may suddenly become his enemies. 

¢ Subject cannot succeed in business. 

¢ Subject may lack qualities. 

¢ Subject is a Bhogi and by Pathantar, he gets Gold, Silver and other 
items. 


MARS IN THE EIGHTH HOUSE B 


3. Impact on Family & Marriage: 


e Subject has few offspring. 

¢ Sorrows and sufferings are part of his life. 

¢ Subject is deprived of happy life. 

¢ The wife of the subject suffers pain. 

¢ The subject enjoys pleasures through women. 


The above maladies grow further following the conjunction of a malefic, 
being in enemy sign or being debilitated. Conversely, when Mars is 
exalted, conjunct with a benefic or in it's own sign, above written 
possibilities are reduced or abolished. The bad outcome is more probable 
if the native happens to have odd sign in the 8" house. The results may 
become even worse if fiery sign is there in the 8" house. The even sign 
on the other hand may result in positive results like simple life, richness, 
and enjoying importance among people. The adverse placement of Mars 
in the eighth house is definitely a bad omen for the native. However, 
astrologers are advised to take Saturn as well as the strength of the lord 
of the 8" house before reaching any conclusion, regarding subject's death. 

The 8" house represents obstacles, impediments, calamities, sorrow 
and cause of death and therefore this position of Mars is the crescendo 
of Mangli dosha in a woman's horoscope. This bhava position indicates 
the maladies in marital life. Total destruction of marital happiness should 
be understood from this bhava position. The pangs of unhappiness 
destroy the physical beauty of the native. There is strong possibility of 
widowhood following the death or murder of the spouse. Mars in 8" 
house casts full drishti (aspect) on Kutumb Bhava (the 2™4 house) and 
consequently, the native has to bear financial and other losses. 

According to Parashar, the native is in for financial loss or defeat. 
Most sages have taken this position as the most malefic. The native, who 
collects wealth through illegal means, is fond of eating. He suffers from 
blood pressure, pneumonia, boils, cuts, and injuries. He is prone to 
accidents and has to undergo surgery. 


MARS IN 8": GRAVE FOR FEMALES 


Our readers must have noted that the sages have not properly deciphered 
the impact of the Kuja dosha in 8" house which, in our opinion, should 
be done. It would not be wrong to say that the longevity factor of a 
woman's husband has been underplayed. 

It has been already mentioned that the 8" house represents “Mangalya’ 
or marital happiness of women. If Mars occupies the 8" house in her 


“A 


AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


horoscope, she is afflicted with Kuja dosha and we consider it as a deadly 
combination on a horoscope can have. Mars in the 8" house of a 
woman's horoscope may result in: 


Late marriage. 

Separation with husband if marriage takes place in the 21% year. 
However, the couple would either get reunited after the 28" year, 
or a litigation which had been continuing for a long time would 
be finalised in that year. 

The husband may suffer injuries in an accident or his health may 
be affected. Mental depression and disorder to husband are most 
likely to take place. 

Husband is likely to expire soon after marriage or he will be 
afflicted with disease. 

Imbalances are expected in marital life ranging from sexual 
imbalance to financial imbalance. The exact nature of the maladies 
or sorrows will however depend on the exact planetary configu- 
ration. 


aaétot a étaea efere: ui afeieaa: 1 
frareta at eta: a eta: adaegyit 


Money can be earned by knowledge or skill. Therefore one must yearn to 
acquire knowledge or master any skill. (No one is poor if he does not have 
money, because the real wealth is knowledge. Without the wealth of knowl- 
edge one is poor in real sense, therefore one must strive to gain knowledge 


first.) 


CHAPTER 2.2.6 


MARS IN THE 
TWELTH HOUSE 


he 12” house signifies expenses, travelling, bed pleasure, pur- 
chasing power, enjoyment, abandoning, and sleep etc. These 


dimensions have direct or indirect relationship with marital life 
of an individual. For example, this house is directly linked with the 
sexual life of the native. Similarly, indirect impact can be exemplified 
in the. factor of loss of enjoyment. It is for this reason that this house 
deserves attention at the hands of an astrologer while diagnosing Mangli 
Dosha. Let us look at the various aphorisms given by our sages on the 
topic: 


Phaldeepika 
rigpagasene: et aad yell: pots 
wattaga: aetart axl fuepoarteratss 


Mars in the 12" house, makes the native a talebearer and cruel. He will 
be deprived of wife and will be mean by nature. He will suffer from 
eye diseases. 


Chamatkar Chintamai 


C10 clO- gree: Aaa: BA: ALEC TAEL Ae 
wtld,de erdtat: 3¢: sitst ateurd: ereaver: 


1 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA. 


waa: ada agrawal ada ue ada: waa 
ae: atti aRaras: stda sta stra: rayen feacedt 
ara frearacargfa: staettfa: eega: ateq ofa: 
eae sda ia ureltég g: wa sauatiraed |: wa 
fafaorra 11 


Mars in the 12" house results in loss of money. The subject suffers from 
weapon injury. He has wound marks. He is tormented by rumour 
mongers. Theft may occur in his house. He picks up fights and develops 
bad blood with others. He has also to suffer at the hands of servants. 
The life is full of sorrows and hurdles. 


Jeevnath 


Bsrsit ua unsafe ue ac wat) 
aa faarva aufe wed aca aaay!! 
was wenta fieaoacraeatepaat | 
awa a eweadtly Rosa gg: waatreyzss 
The subject loses money at early age. He is in the grip of false rumours 


and criticisms. He remains in a state of squalor. He has fear from 
enemies, thieves and weapons. 


Maan _ Sagari 


‘Teaaevias: ude daaaeaanta fart 
Brerygqd: Vas: | 

xafa a ga sft geet a att weaala 
faerat wihs: = watye: 11’ 


The subject has tendency to grab others' money. His eyes are captivating 
(‘Chanchal'). Though he has sharp brain, he has to wander. He is 
‘Hansmukh’ i. e. jovial, is of strong built, and has relations with other 
women. He is the one who completes his undertakings and may have 
to become a witness in the court of law. 


Vaidyanath 
‘sttat faeteft ecrarcéta: 1’ 


The subject is controversial and deprived of wife and wealth. 


MARS IN THE TwetTH HOUSE 7 

HillaJatak 

qadefra at atfret glee: Bat: | 
At the age of 45, he suffers loss. 
Kalyan Verma 

‘auttaeret uwaat arin: qasear! 

greet §«uepat avert aie stata = apy / /' 
He is a patient of eye and is of loose character. He poses threat to his 
wife. The subject turns out to be an informer. He is insulted and lodged 
in jail. 
Jaidev 

arqoeaga sega fay Batantay pot sere / 


The subject will be imprisoned and will face crisis equivalent to death. 
He is weak and" suffers from eye diseases. He is troublesome to his 
friends. 


Mantreshwar 
‘aqelaga: = aetsart earyfiepatserar: /' 
The subject suffers from eye disease. He is cruel and deprived of wife. 
Moreover, he is involved in immoral acts. 
Stree Jatakam 
era frat spaca: wad 
art wae ayo afsfat dq, 
Hae CHIL ATWYAL Ff AT 
weg ware faafsfar ass 
The woman, in whose birth chart Mars is in the 12" house, lacks 


qualities. She is audacious, immoral, performs sinful acts and is deprived 
of a place for living. 


Lagna Varahi 
ota artcea gree / 


If Mars is in the 12” house, the native is outcast by his own 
community, 


2B AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


Kashinath 


‘sraqerit ert ata arftast forge: ere: / 
weatt fadet a warereefa arera: | /' 


The subject spends money in sinful works. He is atheist, garrulous and 
a continuous and frequent visitor to a foreign country. He has many 
enemies. ' 


Punjraj 


aft qi @q eaadta art cat yat atad; 
afraeaq! ad: waar ca: at a we aa 
att atat aq fexat atis 

quienes asarat: wuoltraraattte 
aTae aA | 

we area afsarasgeatet ad wet wat 

ata orea4rsy tt 

ert a ewuieada aAqaryay | 

aatigqen feaert vata frqramgegat 7 
wget: 1 


The Subject suffers materialistic losses at the hands of thieves 
and dacoits. The wife of the subject sustains injury in any organ of 
her left side. If Mars is well placed, the wound lasts only for a few 
days, else it becomes chronic. Uncle (i.e. 'Chacha' or 'phoopha') 
expires. 


Garga 


eliat wqepraica eat witty qua: / 


The Subject is short tempered, lustful, without some important organ, 
and gets involved in immoral acts. He develops bad blood with friends 
and relatives. 


Jageshwar 
‘au =poifed wraatisiaa aaa: /' 


The subject has to suffer from extreme pain in the eye, throat or through 
some blood related disease. 


MARS IN THE TWELTH HOUSE v3) 

Vashishtha 

‘Rafagat Tease 1’ 
The subject is extremely immoral. : 
Parashar 

‘at dae agar a Bedi’ 
The subject has to suffer from eye disease and his brother will die. 
Vridha Yavan Jatakam 

vaforx at arucnta aren oteufcorerfa fawaca aat) 


ways ala Aer aut waertiat facernta 
OSTA I | 


Enmity with friends, trouble in eyes, short temper, handicap in limbs, 
loss of money, imprisonment and loss of vigour are the results of Mars 
in the 12" house? There is loss of money at the age of 45. 


Bhrigu Sutram 


earna: / wuda afro: erqqd wetaeriays 
euarententape. » | gist | ATaerTaywt wz 
ata: sreifietaad |' 


The subject is poor and of evil mentality. If associated with a malefic, 
he is vain and arrogant. If posited in the inimical sign, the subject may 
face imprisonment. He has to suffer loss of wealth. When he attains the 
age of 28 years, his mother dies and the brother is afflicted with mental 
agony. 


Comments and Conclusion 


Thus, the 'Mangli Dosha' of twelfth house is in no way to be ignored 
and requires careful analysis by an astrologer. The adverse placement 
of Mars in this house can fetch several bad results, especially, when 
horoscopes remain unmatched. The list of effects, as enunciated by 
different sages, is: 


1. Impact on Financial Aspect: 


¢ The subject suffers loss of money. 


80 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


2. Impact on Physique, Behaviour and experiences: 


¢ Subject may sustain weapon injury. 
¢ Subject may be tormented by rumour mongers, enemies, squealer 
and servants. 


sieedia wat fam sifaaea wat eer, | 
aeraer oat fa abrara sat aay / / 


Lazy persons cannot have knowledge, ignorant may not have 
wealth, poverty stricken may not have friend and friend less 
persons have no pleasure. 


CHAPTER 213 


MARS IN FIFTH HOUSE 
IN A FEMALE NATIVITY 


A RESEARCH FINDING 


lhe malefic Mars mars the matrimonial matters when it adversely 

affects the houses related to this aspect. The 7" house, in a birth 

chart, rules over marriage, married life and all about husband and 
wife. Besides, the 8” house, particularly in a female native, rules over 
marital bliss, longevity of spouse and ‘Saubhagya'. Therefore adverse 
influence of Mars upon these two houses, namely 7 and 8", is capable 
of damaging the marriage and married life. And, as such all those 
positions of Mars in a birth chart, wherefrom it directly influences either 
of these houses, are termed as Mars Dosha or Kuja Dosha. 

Mars' position in the 7" house may bring about or cause from small 
cuts, boils or minor injury to accidents resulting into major injury, burns, 
impurity of blood resulting into infection and the jeopardy of unnatural 
end of life, like murder. In the horoscope of a woman, such placement 
of Mars is responsible for marital disturbances of all kinds viz. discord, 
disharmony on mental plane, absence of conjugal bliss, and in the 
adverse circumstances even the widowhood or other physical problems 
to the spouse. 

Mars in the 8" house, in case of female nativity, under adverse 
conditions, may endanger the life of the partner and affect her 
'saubhagya'. As such in our humble opinion Mars in 8" house for 
women should be regarded as to be causing stronger Kuja dosha, than 
in the case of their male counterparts. The 8" house in a woman's 


82 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


horoscope bears more ominous portends as compared to the 8" house 
in males. Likewise placement of Mars in the 2” house is adverse for 
female native, in respect of marital matters, as it directly aspects the 8" 
house. However, it is not so bad for men as affliction of the 8" house 
in a man's birth chart, though causes disturbances, does not deprive him 
of marital bliss. For the adversity of marital life, in case of men, Mars 
in the 8" house is not as damaging as in the 7" house. Therefore all 
such positions of Mars in a male nativity from where it affects the 7 
house i. e. Mars in 1%, 2°¢, 4", 7", and 12” give rise to Kuja dosha. 
Whereas in a female nativity all such positions of Mars, from where it 
affects the 7" or the 8" house, cause Kuja dosha. Hence positions of 
Mars in 1°, 2"4 qth 7 gth and 12' houses are taken into account to 
find out the evils of Kuja dosha. In this connection, there is one more 
position of Mars and that is the 5" house, from where also, it aspects 
the 8" house and can cause disturbance in married life. So why should 
not this position of Mars in the 5" house be considered to cause Kuja 
dosha in female nativity? In our view, based on the research after study 
of a large number of such birth charts, the placement of Mars in the 
5" house in a woman's chart leads to strong Kuja dosha. It is so as 
it aspects the 8 house which is dealt for marital happiness and aspect 
of Mars over it spoils the happiness of married life, in the same way, 
as it does from 2™4 or 1% house. 


While matching horoscopes, Kuja dosha is given prime importance. 
In the charts of girls, importance to Mars in the 5" should be given equal 
to other positions of Kuja dosha, whereas in case of male nativity 
'Panchmasth Mangal’ (Mars placed in the 5") may not be taken to cause 
Kuja dosha. Quite a few references, in the form of aphorisms, quoted 
by our learned sages, are available in various texts, which clearly support 
the view that the placement of Mars in the 5" house gives rise to Kuja 
dosha. Our study of a large number of practical cases has shown that 
disturbances, discord or disharmony prevailed in the life of women who 
had Mars in the 5" house. 

Before we give some illustrations to prove our point, it would be 
relevant to leaf through few observations, made by our revered sages, 
regarding the placement of Mars in the 5" honse. 


Chamatkar — Chintamani 
Yat wa wie: aha: seuba: ada wa: , 
feteat wt sift stream speedt afa: erarq tat 
a Hea: wate geaaq aad aed area: eal 


MARS IN HFTH HOUSE, IN A FEMALE NATIVITY 83 


sere: , dqal Up vd Gr std HRI wd 
sel sforafoa a aaeta/ / 


The snbject has intense ‘Udaraagni’ (has good digestion), he feels 
intense hunger. His 'Papkarma Buddhi’ increases and he does evil acts 
(Papkarma) in quick successions. The subject has a lot of desires and 
ambitions, however they remain unfulfilled. It is for this reason that the 
subject keeps on boiling inside just like milk in a pot kept on the fire. 
The Mars in fifth house destroys subject's born or unborn children. 


Jeevnath 


Jatharagni' is intense i.e. the subject eats in excess and can digest it 
as well. The children of the subject die or remain diseased. He is troubled 
by heart related agony and is very intelligent. He can attain heaven, 
through spiritual efforts but remains without money, as the money does 
not accumulate. 


Kalyan Varma 
‘ated: wgaelsaseataty an -potetatas 
fteatsaefura: wax faweat at atta: / /' 
The snbject is unhappy, poor, childless and talkative. He is destructive, 
villain, and has low mentality. 
Mansagari 


‘ana aat ue affrqt 

waar stafa aaeadta: weettatsta ¢g: wit/ 

aufe frayed ada aspferqa: 

euaaganmt qate cate / /' 
The subject is childless, commits sins and remains unhappy. If Mars is 
in its own sign, the subject has only one child who is very weak and 
thin. 


Varahmihir 


‘srgat eretafsofa: /' 


& AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


The subject is childless and poor. 

Jaideva 
‘sqadapaaaday = fag fz: 
gecaa ygeaatsfa: gaeet / 1’ 


If Mars is posited in the fifth house, the subject is childless, and is 
troubled by ‘Kapha' and ‘Vaart’ related diseases (cough and gastric 
disorders). He lacks intelligence and does not derive happiness through 
friends or wife. 


Mantreshwar 
‘fagaadrasneura: ga frepetsereft: //' 


The subject is childless; many mishaps are associated with his luck. He 
is not intelligent and is a squealer. 


Kashinath 
qaut ad agit Guede: aal a: 1 
asad farax aet dtatsh sraadss’ 


The children of the native are not good. He himself is diseased, has nft 
with near and dears, and is poor. 


Garga 
‘Ryget Ryatt tat a weerya: 1 
aixa: yretoild a@etfa ferrd ques i’ 


If fifth house Mars is in enemy's sign, debilitated or in conjunction with 
or aspected by a malefic, the death of son is certain. 


Parashara 

‘qav fuqetfor a erarafayatver: //' 
The subject loses his father. He gets money, children and earns fame. 
Bhrigu Sutram 


‘faela: yxtera:, gatet, waeti: 1 weak 
srgetat ss fefaqevs@era: 1) =~ gatucrareretterarey | 
araravél, dtawr eft: 1 seal zeae Yauafs, 
seaqetva: 1 cwatrerata: 1 eagttst: werd 


MARS IN HFTH HOUSE, IN A HEMALE NATIVITY 85 


waastdt rare: / gfeererfertr: / <Yelet wid 
qt) ate: / eaqaate: / yar: gatfa: / caoreta: | 
setentt: wet wea 


The snbject is poo, childless, commits sinful acts and incurs the wrath 
of king. He has to face injury from a weapon in the sixth year. He gets 
involved in sinful acts to satisfy his sexual urge. He is learned, rational, 
materialistic and highly intelligent. If in Capricorn/Aries/Scorpio, the 
subject is blessed with many sons. He donates food and achieves higher 
position and is an officer. He has troubles through enemies. If posited 
in debilitated sign or in conjunction with a malefic, son of the subject 
would die (Putra Shoka). He has to adopt a child (Dattak Putrd). He 
has conflicts with own people. He suffers from stomach related diseases 
and his wife is surrounded by sorrows/pains. 

These aphorisms are general in nature and do not take the specific 
aspect into consideration. They, however, point towards some dimensions 
of marital maladies. Take the aspect of death of children/sons/ eldest 
child, for example. One cannot think of happy marital life accompanied 
with childlessness. Multitude of strains- ranging from social, psychological 
or biological- are associated with this kind of marital life. The placement 
of Mars in fifth honse is detrimental towards the happiness of marital 
life from the point of view of progeny. It is thus surprising that the fifth 
house has, thus far, been neglected, by texts, as far as the potentiality 
of Kuja Dosha is concemed. 

Thus, logically the, fifth house has potentiality for becoming 'Kuja 
Dosha creator. This view gains currency in the Jataka Chandrika of 
Kalidasa. 


vaenam 9 aneavdegay alterdts 
ga ert a aintsfta ge atu a fucatas 


This aphorism alludes to the fact that the fifth house Mars had been 
recognised by a school of thonght as the potential canser of 'Kuja 
Dosha'. Thus, the fact that fifth house Mars creates Kuja Dosha was 
a ‘submerged reality’. 

As already pointed out, our experience on the subject has given ample 
evidence in confirmation to the fact. We feel that astrologers must keep 
this aspect of Mars in their tool kit while detecting the compatibility of 
horoscopes. Further, we strongly feel that neglect of this fact over 
centuries was like neglect of an important disease by a doctor and 


86 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


consequently many remain uncured. Many women who could have led 
happy marital life had been put on inaccuracy of astrology. Earlier the 
escape from the sin, the better. 

Given below are some illustrations that show the presence of Mars 
in the fifth house, in women's horoscopes, causes strong Kuja dosha and 
affects their married life, if not properly balanced. 


Illustration no. 2.3.1 Horoscope no. 1 


Owner of a beautiful personality in her youth but unfortunate in respect 
of martial bliss, the lady of this horoscope was born in Virgo ascendant 
with exalted Mars posited in the 5" house, with the benefic aspect of 
Jupiter-the 7" lord. Lagna lord Mercury and the 11"* Jord Moon conjoin 
Mars in the 5" house. Exalted Venus occupies the 7" whereas the 7" 
lord Jupiter is in the Jagna. Saturn aspects the 7" house from the 10". 
Apparently, there seems to be no cause of martial misfortune and one 
may even be justified in declaring a happy and long lasting married life 
until he considers the presence of Mars in the fifth house as a strong 
Kuja Dosha. The lady was married to a smart and handsome person at 
an early age of 19 on 2.5.1964. She was blessed with one daughter and 
two sons. However, with the passage of time, an abyss between the 
husband and the wife began to appear. Her husband's growing interest 
in other young girls and physical relations with many of them was 
enough for her to endure, which ultimately resulted in divorce. Having 
severed her relations with him and passing a lonely life she easily fell 
into the emotional lap of a married Muslim officer and had a "Gandharva 
Vivah" with him. Both loved each other and led life happily, in spite 
of sharp innuendoes and criticism from friends and relatives. But destiny 
put her cruel hands on her life once again. History repeated itself and 
after 7 year this man deserted her and got married with another lady. 
She was left at the crossroads where she had nothing else but humiliation, 
defamation and tensions to live with. Mars joins the 5" house as the lord 
of 8" and 3°’. As such it should have a concern only with children and 
health of the native but it did not restrict itself to that and resulted into 
marital discord, which made her life miserable. Her position and respect 
in society got a heavy drubbing because of her failed associations and 
she realized that in second case her status was not more than a concubine, 
and that too did not last long. In fact this all resulted due to presence 
of Kuja Dosha because of Mars' position in the 5" house, though in 
exaltation, which was not balanced as both of her partners were non- 
mangli. 


MARS IN FIFTH HOUSE, IN A FEMALE NATIVITY 87 


Hlustration No. 2.3.1 Horoscope No.1 

Bom on 11.2.1945 at 10:15:00 hr. 

Place: Delhi Long 77:12E Lat. 28:39N 
Balance of Mahadasha of Moon 6Y2M19D 


z PLANETARY DEGREES 

Asc. 161 : 09 
Sun 299 : 29 
Moon 284 : 59 
Mars 274 : 48 
Mercury 286 : 47 
Jupiter 152 *57R 
Venus 346 : 03 
Saturn 71 :10R 
Rahu 83 : 29 
Ketu 263 : 29 


88 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


Illustration no. 2.3.2 Horoscope no. 2 


The lady was born in Sagittarius with Mars, along with Sun and Mercury, 
in the 5"" honse. Mars here is placed in own sign Aries and Sun is exalted. 
Saturn aspects the 7" house. She tied the nuptial knot at an early age 
with an IAS Officer. Few years passed making adjustments and com- 
promises and three children were bom. The husband developed relations 
with some other lady and deserted her in the midst of her life. All the 
efforts and resources of her family and friends to reunite the couple 
proved futile. She was ultimately divorced putting an end to the remotest 
chance of marital happiness being revived. Conjugal bliss was denied 
to her from the very beginning. Placement of Mars in the 5" honse, from 
where it aspects the 8"" can be held responsible for the marital disaster 
in her life. Saturn also aspects the 7 house and thus both 7"and 8' 
honses are heavily afflicted. The aspect of Saturn and Mars over the 12" 
honse is also adverse but the placement of Mars in the 5" resulted in 
legal separation of the native. 


Illustration no. 233 Horoscope no. 3 


The native was bom when Virgo was ascending in the east, with exalted 
Mars in the 5" honse. Seventh house is aspected by its own lord Jupiter 
from the 3". Mercury and Venus occupy the 8" house. This brilliant, 
beautiful and bewitching girl is professionally an engineer. She was 
married on 24,4.1992. A son was bom to her on 1.7.1993. Husband went 
away from her when she was pregnant. He never came back to her in 
spite of persistent persuasions, prayers and petition by the native and 
her parents, not even to see his son. Resigned to fate she decided to 
live alone. She works in a repnted organisation and earns a handsome 
salary. Professional aspect of her life is quite illnstrions bnt the marital 
aspect is extremely shoddy. Aspect of Mars over the 8" house has caused 
devastation in her martial life when she is leading a life full of frustration 
and stress in absence of conjugal bliss. The reason for this is the presence 
of Mars in the 5" house. 


Illustration no. 2.3.4 Horoscope no. 4 


The native was bom when Taurus was ascending in the east. Mars, Ketu 
and Saturn are placed in the 5" house while the Moon and Mercury are 
posited in the 7" house. Thus, there is exchange of lords of 5" and 7". 
Jupiter lends its aspect over the 5° and 7" honses. The native has not 
been married at all. She remains unwed despite the aspect of Jupiter over 


MARS IN FIFTH HOUSE, IN A FEMALE NATIVITY 89 


Illustration No. 2.3.2 
Bom on 20-04-1951 
Place: Ramnagar 

Balance of Mahadasha of 


- PLANETARY 


Asc 

Sun 
Moon 
Mars 
Mercury 
Jupiter 
Venus 
Saturn 
Rahu 
Ketu 


Horoscope No.2 

at 23:21:00 hrs. 

Long 81:12E Lat. 24: UN 
Moon 1Y 7M 14D 


90 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


Illustration No. 2.3.3 
Born on 26.05.1971 
Place: Lucknow 

Balance of Mahadasha of 


Horoscope No.3 

at 14:00:00 hrs. 

Long 80:56 E Lat. 26:51N 
Moon OY 10M 20D 


PLANETARY DEGREES 


Mercury 
Jupiter 
Venus 
Saturn 
Rahu 
Ketu 
NAVAMSA 


158 : 01:21 
40 : 59:44 


MARS IN FIFTH HOUSE, IN A FEMALE NATIVITY 9] 


Ilmstration No. 2.3.4 
Born on 26:12:1951 
Place: Landsdowne 
Balance of Mahadasha of 


Horoscope No.4 

at 16:08:00 hrs. 

Long 79:30 E Lat. 30:15N 
Saturn 6Y 9M 21D 


8 
MAR 
6 MON MER 
SAT . 


- PLANETARY DEGREES 


Mercury 
Jupiter 
Venus 
Saturn 
Rahu 
Ketu 


55 : 06 
250 : 39 
221 : 53 
174 : 35 
232: 57R 
342: B 
208 : 07 
171 : 02 
340 : 35 
160 : 35 


92 AN INSIGHT INIO KUJA DOSHA 


the 5" and 7” houses. Though other reasons of denial of marriage are 
also there, which is not the subject and scope of this chapter, this chart 
adds to demonstrate the adversity of Mars in the 5" house in the chart 
of a female native. 


Illustration no. 2.3.5 Horoscope no. 5 


In this birth chart with Capricom /agna, Mars being the lord of 4" and 
11" houses, occupies the 5" house, in association with 6 and 9" lord 
Mercury. Conjunction of 4** and 9° lords Mars and Mercury, lords of 
angle and triangle, is very auspicious. Retrograde Saturn occupies the 
2™ house in Aquarius from where it aspects the 8'" house. The 8" house 
also receives the aspect of Jupiter and Mars. Aspect of Jupiter over 8" 
tends to improve or save her marital bliss, which is heavily afflicted due 
to the aspect of Satum and Mars. She entered into matrimony on 
264.1982 with an extremely smart, handsome, tall, suave and noble 
person. Her married life was going smooth except for the development 
of cardiac trouble to her husband. But the illness gradually picked up 
severity resulting in occurrence of heart attack twice. As the destiny 
would have it he suffered a third attack, which proved fatal, on 6.8.1993, 
cutting short the span of marital life only to 1] years plus. There is no 
sign of widowhood if we do not consider the presence of Mars in the 
5'" house causing a strong Kuja dosha. The lord of 7" house Moon falls 
in the 9" house i. e. the house of fortune and the 7" house is also devoid 
of any malefic aspect. Despite this the curse of widowhood fell on her 
at a young age of 29. Placement of Mars in the 5" house did play its 
role in. marring the conjugal bliss at an early age. 


Illustration no. 2.3.6 Horoscope no. 6 


In this birth chart of Aquarius ascendant Mars occupies the 5" house. 
Saturn from the 10" house aspects the 7 while Mars aspects the 8" 
house. The 2"! lord Jupiter occupies the 7 house and aspects the 8" 
lord Mercury and /agna. Moon and Saturn are in opposition to Sun and 
Venus. The lady is unmarried so far. Apart from other combinations, the 
placement of Mars in the 5" house is responsible for denial of happiness 
of marriage. 


Illustration no. 2.3.7 Horoscope no. 7 


This is the horoscope of an ill-starred lady who lost her husband in an 
accident within six months after marriage on 4.11.1994, Nobody could 
even have dreamt of this unfortunate event when she was being married 


MARS IN FIFTH HOUSE, IN A FEMALE NATIVITY 93 


Illustration No. 23.5 
Born on 18:6:1964 

Place: Lucknow 

Balance of Mahadasha of 


Horoscope No.5 

at 20:55:00 hrs. 

Long 80:56 E Lat. 26:51N 
Moon 6Y 9M 7D 


7 PLANETARY DEGREES 

Asc 272 : 33 
Sun 64 : 02 
Moon 173 : 38 
Mars 37 : 27 
Mercury 53 : 40 
Jupiter 22 : 09 
Venus 66 :05R 
Saturn 311: 40R 
Rahu 38 : 55 
Ketu 248 : 55 


94 


AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


Illustration No. 2.3.6 
Born on 15:05:1957 
Place: Hardoi 

Balance of Mahadasha of 


Horoscope No.6 

at 01:20:00 hrs. 

Long 80:10E Lat. 27:20N 
Saturn 7Y 2M 4D 


PLANETARY DEGREES 


Mercury 
Jupiter 
Venus 


309 : 07 
30 : 27 
221 : 31- 


MARS IN FIFTH HOUSE, IN A FEMALE NATIVITY 95 


Illustration No. 2.3.7 
Born on 02:06:1969 
Place: Manpuri 

Balance of Mahadasha of 


Horoscope No.7 

at 10:00:00 hrs. 

Long 79:01 E Lat. 27:14N 
Ketu 1Y 0M 18D 


PLANETARY DEGREES 


Asc 

Sun 
Moon 
Mars 
Mercury 
Jupiter 
Venus 
Saturn 
Rahu 
Ketu 


110 : 01 #22 
48 : O01 :54 
251 : 13 :36 
226 : 03 :10R 
42 :21 :32R 
152 : 49 :04 
03: 19: 13 


9% AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


off by happy parents on 24.6.1994. Even the examination of her birth 
chart wouldn't, if Mars in the 5 house had not been considered to cause 
Kuja dosha. 

Mars, the yogakaaraka for Cancer ascendant, occupies the 5" house 
in its own sign Scorpio. Mars obtains the vargottam navamsa and 
receives the aspect of Sun and Mercury. The seventh house is aspected 
by its own lord, Saturn and is unafflicted. On the other hand the 7" house 
is benefited by the aspect of benefic Jupiter. However, the aspect of the 
3™ and the 12" lord Mercury, over the 5" and Mars, is damaging. The 
aspect of the 7" Jord, Saturn, on its own house and aspect of 9'" and 
6" lord Jupiter on the 7'* cannot be the cause of death of her husband. 
The 8" house refers to longevity of the life partner, which gets the 
damaging aspect of Mars. In view of this, except for Mars in the 5” 
house, who else could be held culpable for shattering all beatitude of her 
life. 


Illustration no. 2.38 Horoscope no. 8 


Born in Leo ascendant with yogakaaraka Mars in the 5" house, the 
extremely charming lady of this horoscope from a very high family would 
have thought herself the luckiest one when she was chosen to tie the 
nuptial knot from among more than hundred girls by her husband. 
Jupiter's presence in the 7" house was highly appreciated by self-styled 
pandits and astrologers at the time of marriage. (We do not consider 
Jupiter very auspicious in the 7 house, which has been dealt in detail 
in our other books.) She was married on 5.10.1973 with a pilot officer 
of Indian Air Force when she was running Rahu-Jupiter period. Destiny 
had something else for her in store. Her husband died in a plane crash 
on 2.3.1978 putting an abrupt end to her blissful marital life. She was 
compelled for the second marriage by her parents and relatives, which 
was performed on 29.9.1979. Though presence of Rahu in the 8" house 
with a mutual aspect with 6" and 7™ lord Satur is also not appreciable, 
the Mars in the 5'" house is most liable for this disaster. (The 8'" house, 
in addition, receives the aspect of 12" lord Moon and 6" and 7™ lord 
Saturn.) 


Illustration no. 23.9 Horoscope no. 9 


Bom in Gemini ascendant, with Mars in the 5* house, this versatile, 
intelligent lady is a very senior IAS officer. She was married to her batch- 
mate of IAS on 27.12.1984. In spite of having all materialistic pleasures 
possible on earth, her marital life remains unhappy. Her husband belonged 


MARS IN FIFTH Housé, IN A FEMALE NATIVITY 


Mlustration No. 2.3.8 


Born on 07:11:1950 
Place: Delhi 


Balance of Mahadasha of 


Moon 
Mars 
Mercury 
Jupiter 
Venus 
Saturn 
Rahu 
Ketu 


PLANETARY DEGREES 


135: 
20: 
157: 
247 : 


Horoscope No.8 
at 01:41:00 hrs. 
Long 77:13 E Lat. 28:39 N 
Sun 7Y 2M 4D 


97 


98 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


Illustration No. 2.3.9 Horoscope No.9 

Born on 20:11:1959 at 20:30:00 hrs. 

Place Allahabad Long 81:50 ELat. 25:27 N 
Blance of Mahadasha of Satun 9Y 8M 29D 


8 
UP 

MON MER 

PLANETARY DEGREES 
Asc 66 : 35 
Sun 196 : 08 
Moon 219 : 49 
Mars 195 : 01 
Mercury 219 : 30 
Jupiter 222 : 15 
Venus 149 : 51 
Saturn 249 : 48 
Rahu 160 : 14 


Ketu 340 : 14 


MARS IN FIFTH HOUSE, IN A FEMALE NATIVITY 9 


to a different cadre, so both had to live separately. It is said that distance 
creates love but here distance created more distance between them. 
Native is deeply attached to her mother, who herself is not a very virtuous 
lady. Ironically she has been very instrumental in nurturing the differ- 
ences between the couple. The native has been passing life in virtual 
separation. The 7" house is occupied by Saturn. The 7” lord Jupiter 
is situated in the 6"" house under paapkartari yoga. And to augment it, 
the marital happiness (8" house) is damaged by the cruel aspect of Mars 
from the 5" house. 


Illustration no. 2.3.10 Horoscope no. 10 


This unfortunate young lady became widow within 10 years of her 
marriage. She was married on 27.11.1983. First son was born on 
26.9.1984 and the second daughter on 16.3.1990. Her life was otherwise 
going on smoothly when all ofa sudden, a puff of air blew out the lamp 
of her joy and happiness, inflicting upon her the curse of widowhood. 
Her husband lost his life in an accident on 21.3.1993. Mars in this lady's 
birth chart is placed in the 5" house. Also the 7" house is occupied by 
the 12" lord Moon and the 7" lord Satum is in the 6" on the axis of 
Rahu and Ketu. This planetary combination apart, the placement of Mars 
in the 5" house triggered the tragedy that brought darkness in the mid- 
day of her life. 


Illustration no. 2.3.11 Horoscope no. 11 


This horoscope belongs to a lady who at this age of 53 is passing a 
dejected and desolate life. Her journey on to the road of matrimony had 
started on a rather happy note. At a very young age of 16, when she 
was still a student of high school, she was forced into wedlock on the 
persistent persuasion and dogged demand for the marriage from boy's 
side. Her husband was then studying law. Slowly clock of future moved 
forward but not the career graph of her husband who had taken law 
as profession. In true manner he is not settled as yet. The native has 
been blessed with two sons. First was born on 28.10.1967 and the 
second on 28.11.1969. But as the fate would have, she could not get 
any happiness from the side of her children too. Both her sons are 
disobedient to the extent that they abuse her. She does not get any support 
from any member of family and is passing very unhappy life. She had 
to live separately from her husband for 10 years. In the birth chart, with 
Aries ascendant, Mars is placed in the 5" house. The 7" Jord Venus is 
placed in the 6" house under paapkartari yoga formed by Mars and Sun. 


100 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


Illustration No. 2.3.10 Horoscope No. 10 

Bom on 10:01:1962 at 21:15:00 hrs. 

Place Pilibhit Long 79:48 E Lat. 28:37 N 
Blance of Mahadasha of Jupiter 12Y 4M 27D 


PLANETARY DEGREES 
Asc 135 3 21 :59 
Sun 236 : 36 :38 
Moon 322 : 59:36 
Mars 259 : 29 :43 
Mercury 281 : 31 :18 
Jupiter 289 *. 19 :06 
Venus 262 . 35 :42 
Saturn 277 : 28 :38 
Rahu 114 : 53:24 


Keu * 294 : 53:24 


MARS IN FIFTH HOUSE, IN A FEMALE NATIVITY 101 


Illustration No. 2.3.11 
Born on 09:11:1959 
Place: Lucknow 
Balance of Mahadasha of 


Mercury 
Jupiter 
Venus 
Saturn 
Rahu 
Ketu 


Horoscope No. 11 

at 17:30:00 hrs. r 

Long 80: 56 E Lat! 26:51 N 
Saturn 18Y 8M 4D 


218 : 43: 03 
341 : 47: 33 R 
156 : 32: 19 
167 : 09: O1 
314 : 09: 46 


i02 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


Sun is placed in the 7"* house. This adverse position of the 7m lord and 
7» house along with Mars in 5" causing Kuja dosha are responsible for 
misfortune in marital life. 

These are the few case studies where some or the other problem 
prevailed in the marital life of the natives and all of them had Mars in 
the 5th house. There may be some additional features also but the 
presence of Mars in the 5th house can not be given less importance. There 
are still many more cases where no other planetary configuration seems 
responsible for the unhappiness in the life after marriage except for the 
adverse placement of Mars in the Stn, aspecting the house of conjugal 
bliss in the female nativity. It is our humble submission that while 
matching the horoscopes for marriage due weight must be accorded to 
this placement of Mars to curtail the evils of Kuja dosha. 


clea afeeaata atet ward ANT | 
auat g: waaratla wate a arcrada: 11 
Intellect deviates from the right path through greed, greed 


generates desire and a desire-bound person bears sorrow in this 
world and thereafter. 


CHAPTER 2.4 


ANNULMENT OF 
KUJA DOSHA 


a full section to situations abrogating the dosha. A number of 

exceptions to the 'Kuja dosha' have been pointed out by our sages, 
making the concept complex and task of an astrologer difficult. It is, for 
this reason, that we are presenting coverage of the exceptions to the 
dosha as pointed by the sages at different places. 


|: is the complexity of Kuja dosha that has compelled us to dedicate 


Muhurt Chintamani mentions 


at it FAA YUH Aa: Bar avery / 

faucafa aq-gqéet a faacufa qeataxatear! / 
Mars placed in 1‘, 2™, 4, 7", 8") 11 or 12" honses in bride or 
bridegroom's chart causes devastation in marital life, but it is not evil, 


if placed in its own honse (Aries or Scorpio) or in exaltation (Capricorn) 
or in friend's house. 


waa? ser ufttftert gente eareretsfrars 
ame a awa weal fwe a atusiress 


Also meaning thereby, that Mars does not confer dosha if it occupies 
'in those houses) its own sign, exaltation sign, or remains in its own 
or exaltation navamsa. It is harmless in Cancer or Leo. 

If Mars is well placed, exalted, is in own sign, is a yogakaraka or 
s in its Mooltrikona sign or Mars is associated or aspected by benefic 


104 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 
planets, the intensity of Kuja dosha will be appreciably reduced. This 
rule can safely be adopted to include other malefics, causing Kuja dosha, 
namely Rahu, Ketu, Saturn and Sun. However, it should be noted, here, 
that if the planets are combust, the 'Kuja Dosha' does not get cancelled. 
If the 7" house is well fortified and auspicious, or fortunate 
combinations are present in the birth chart indicating happy and 
everlasting married life, the bad effect of Kuja dosha will be largely 
minimized. 
The Jataka Chandrika of Kalidas has mentioned a few exceptions 
to the Kuja Dosha. 
agerat? att aay aarp) 
ua wet eweyst ulead goetat a faadss 


When Mars is placed in Aries or Scorpio, identical to the A" honse, or 
if Mars occnpies Cancer or Capricorn identical to the 7" honse, no Kuja 
Dosha arises. 

Another noteworthy classic the Muhurt. Parijat says: 


xt aet aa ad ware grad wets 
get yet afparet sitaatat a faut 11 
If Mars is in the Jagna in Aries, in fourth in Scorpio, in seventh in 
Capricorn, in eighth in Cancer or in twelfth in Sagittarius, there is no 
Mangli dosha. \t means the native is not mangli. 
The Muhurt Chintamani has a slightly different view. 


get att? ud aret sitaetet a faut | 


If Mars is in Pisces in the 7" house or in Aquarius in the 8" there is 
no mangli yoga. 
Another exception to the dosha given by Kalidas is: 
eueiaeat ae: BaeL Borserar / 
gear we ufvrenr qe a aa ustda // 
If there is ‘dosha’because of Mars being in the above five places namely 
4th, gth_ 94 1S or the 12" house, but if Mars is associated with or 
aspected by Jupiter or Mercury, the dosha is cancelled. However, we 


have a different view on the aspect of Jupiter, which will be discnssed 
later. 


Mangli dosha gets cancelled in various situations: 


Sages have propounded many rules when presence of Kuja dosha gets 
cancelled automatically. 


ANNULMENT OF KUJA DOSHA 105 


fadta attaciveg you seyeulfasts 
age asttzatueg ax qRupatfacr:s 
wart ataaieg aw wseceatfac! 
aca asttaatieq aq sfforpatfacts | 
aed staataeg gx atfawatfacins 
gat fee a ate: cara 

attaeedfa areftior: 11 


This sloka means that Mangli dosha is not present if Mars joins the 2™ 
house in Gemini or Virgo. And one is not Mangli if Mars falls in the 
4" house in own sign Aries or Scorpio. If Mars is placed in the 7" house 
in the sign of its exaltation or debilitation i.e. in Capricorn or Cancer, 
there is no Kuja dosha. One is not Mangli if Mars occupies the 8" house 
in the sign of Jupiter ie. Sagittarius or Pisces. If Mars joms the 12* 
honse in any sign ruled by Venus i. e. Taurus or Libra, one is free from 
Mangli dosha. Apart from this if Mars is placed in Leo or Aquarins 
anywhere in the birth chart, there will be no Mangli dosha. 

The sloka does not mention anything about the cancellation of 
Mangli dosha in reference to ascendant. We believe that placement of 
Mars in Aries and Capricorn, in the ascendant, will not give rise to Mangli 
dosha. 

Dr. B. V. Raman has also mentioned in his text on Muhurta that under 
the above conditions, one will not be a Mangli. He must have found it 
correct in his observations about the negative and positive effects of 
Mars in varions houses and signs. Let us illustrate the same in the 
following chart. One will not be Mangli if the signs, as shown in the 
following chart, fall in the 1%, 2"4' 4* 7*, 8* or the 12" house and Mars 
is tenanted there. 


PS ee 


FANON 


106 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


2. Kuja dosha gets balanced by Shani dosha in other chart 


mt aiua eaRest a feqe aes 
seca aieetash sttaaty faorereaieass 


This means if Mars joins 1%, 2na, 4th, 7th, 8m or 12* house in one of 
the matching horoscopes and Saturn occupies either of these houses in 
the other birth chart, Mangli dosha gets cancelled. 


3. ef statsra haat a aget ada! 
ada stacieda ata ald facereass 


If any strong malefic planet is in the same house of a woman's chart, 
in which Mars is posited in the man's chart, Kuja dosha is cancelled. 


4. aaeid aan Yaa docueel 
wraisg.ar stata yor fasfaeaars 
wedt ayraadt ukRactl sere 
warep ule srtq estretstts 


If Mars is in 18, 4*, 7m, 8", and 12m and Jupiter is in 1, 4m, 5m, 7", 
On, or 10, there is no Kuja dosha. The girl will be lucky to have all 
good qualities, children etc. Benefics in 7: or 8m will also give good 
results. 


5. ye waa wate sttaaint a faads 
wa Aa Aatast stant a faaais 


This means that Kuja dosha does not exist if Mars is associated with 
Jupiter. Similarly Mangli dosha is ineffective if Mars is accompanied with 
Moon. This means, if Jupiter or Moon aspect or conjoin Mars, Kuja 
dosha does not occur. However, this is one of the most confusing and 
incorrect statements. Those who know astrology and have experience 
of such kinds of Kuja dosha where Mars is under the influence of Moon 
or Jupiter, can very well understand that adversities of Kuja dosha remain 
largely unchanged. The adversities of Kuja dosha cannot be minimized 
by the influence of Moon or Jupiter. On the contrary, experience shows 
that the adversities of Kuja dosha enhance in both the cases- to say Kuja 
dosha becomes more effective. 


6. st wet at at wae gue wa 
ga sat wfeaet sita atat a faud 11 


ANNULMENT OF KUJA DOSHA 107 


Mars in Leo in lagna, Mars in Scorpio in 4", in Capricorn in 7", in the 
8" in Cancer or in the 12" in Sagittarius also does not cause Kuja 
dosha. 


Ts aaet werfa ua ota: | 


naedt @ocad a ase st 
amet ace — sa fedtds 
noet Bert a welts! 


This means that the aspect of Jupiter over Mars cancels Mangli dosha. 
One is not mangli if Moon is in quadrant. Mangli dosha dies out if Moon 
and Venus occupy the 2" house. When Rahu joins a quadrant, Kuja 
dosha is neutralized. 

The above s/oka is quoted by many astrologers, time and again, 
according to their convenience. With the help of these s/lokas one is 
convinced that Kuja dosha does not exist in the concerned horoscope. 
How unfortunate it is! In fact, these slokas have been written due to 
lack of experience by those who wanted to prevent the fear of Kuja 
dosha. After leafing through thousands of horoscopes, containing Kuja 
dosha, it is felt that aphorisms, as propounded in above s/lokas, .are 
incorrect. The effects of Kuja dosha do not pale away in any of the 
conditions mentioned in these slokas. 


AAa aq 


8. Mars in moveable signs: no Mangli dosha 


aeabrad stat wgecert ert 
ase wa faate: ena ev? aa faetva: 11 


Should Mars occupy the 1“, 2", 4", 8", or 12” house in a movable 
sign, then its effects become innocuous. But if the above places are found 
to be fixed or in dual Rasis, Mars becomes a malefic triggering dosha. 
The contents of this s/oka cannot be applied verbatim or else wrong 
conclusion will bring about a shadow upon one's married life. 


9. Moon, Jupiter or Mercury if aspect or join Mars: No Mangli 
dosha 
Yaa wert att aweteg we ufteras 
qgeftrd a auista ge aw a facadta/ / 


If Mars occupies any of the above five houses, but is accompanied by 
Moon, Jupiter or Mercury, the dosha does not exist. Even when Mars 


108 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


is aspected by them, one should not even think of harm. 

We have already explained that if Jupiter or Moon aspect or join 
Mars, Mangli dosha will not be cancelled. As far as Mercury is 
concerned, it is most inimical to Mars and the association of Mercury 
and Mars, will rather enhance the Kuja dosha instead of its cancellation. 

ure yt ayat at aeet getsft arsear ata t/ 
ateft sta we ase ei a a woaatu: s4/ 
If strong Jupiter or Venus is deposited in the /agna or the 7th house and 


that Venus is not with Mars or Mars is retrograde, debilitated or in inimical 
sign, Kuja dosha becomes ineffective. 


ll. gee frettt eset a frrardtssuequer: | 
aa sattaex aut a nee AaTeAaeIs | 


Benefics in Kendra and Trikona, malefics in Trik and 7in lord in the 7" 
house will strengthen the 7m house, and this will reduce the adverse 
effects of Kuja dosha. 


12, xesgaiaae silezetut a fads 


There is no Mangli dosha for the natives born in Cancer and Leo 
ascendants. 


13. aeat oftaet sitet ererg ataordsfrat/ 
waren stat aint a fefaett fads 


If Mars is combust, debilitated or posited in inimical sign there is no dosha 
of ‘ashtamasth Mangal' 1. e. Mars placed in 8m. 


14. geared atet ufe seq wtet aatnarel aval: / 


If the lord of the sign, afflicted by Mars, is in quadrant or triangle, Mars’ 
dosha is cancelled. 


1. wkretst ur aka arettt ua waqs 
ata wer age sitaatat a faud/ / 


There is no mangli dosha if the lords of moon signs of both the partners 
are friendly, there is Gana Maitri or there are plentiful of matching points. 


Erroneous exceptions of Kuja Dosha 


Many authors of today have described Kuja dosha in their own way and 


ANNULMENT OF KUJA DOSHA 109 


we have gone through their writings, where they have discussed about 
the exceptions of Kuja dosha. Let us first of all mention what they have 
said. It is ethical if we do not name them because we have not found 
their observations regarding exceptions of Kuja dosha correct. 


a. 


— 


and 


If Mars is placed in Cancer, Leo, Capricom or Aquarius, there will 
be no Kuja dosha. This means placement of Mars in the sign of 
Moon, Sun & Saturn does not give rise to Kuja dosha. 


. At various places it has been written that Mars dosha gets 


cancelled, if Jupiter or Moon conjoin with Mars or aspect Mars. 
We totally disagree with it. 


. Few scholars penned that Kuja dosha will be ineffective, if Mars 


is in a moveable sign such as Aries, Cancer, Libra, or Capricorn. 
We have not found it correct in the birth charts of thousands of 
natives. 


. Presence of Jupiter and Venus in the Jagna cancels Kuja dosha of 


all kinds. 


. Mars does hot give rise to Kuja dosha, if it falls in Aquarius or 


Leo anywhere in the birth chart. 
If Mars is in conjunction with or aspected by Jupiter, Mercury, 
bright Moon or Venus, no dosha is caused. 


. In Jataka Chandrika it has been stated that Mars does not give rise 


to Kuja dosha, if exalted or debilitated. 


. If Mars is placed in own sign, Aries or Scorpio, anywhere, no Kuja 


dosha will be there. 


. There will be no Kuja dosha, if Mars falls in the 2™ house in 


Gemini or Virgo, in the 4* house in Aries or Scorpio, in the 7* 
house in Cancer or Capricorn, in gs" house in Sagittarius or Pisces, 
and in the 12" house in Taurus or Libra. 


. If Mars falls in Magha, Ashwini or Moola constellation, i.e. in the 


constellation of Ketu, there will be no Kuja dosha irrespective of 
other factors. 


. If Mars is placed in Sagittarius for Capricom ascendant, in Pisces 


for Virgo ascendant or in Aquarius for Cancer ascendant there is 
no Mars’ dosha. 


. For Cancer and Leo ascendant any kind of Kuja dosha is 


ineffective. 


There are so many exceptions of Kuja dosha given by various sages 
scholars. However we strongly condemn all these exceptions on the 


110 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


basis of our study of the science of astrology and vast experience of 
about 35 years. We have examined many thousands birth charts having 
Kuja dosha and ail such exceptions as mentioned above have failed 
miserably. Let us forcefully invite the attention of readers so that they 
should not be misguided by the so-called exceptions of Kuja dosha. We 
will prove it on the basis of practical illustrations in this book and that 
will be an eye opener. 

Acharya Mukund Ballabh & Mr. H.N. Katwe have mentioned that 
Kuja dosha is not present if Mars is placed in the Jagna in Aries, in 
the 4* house in Scorpio, 7" in Capricorn, in 8" in Cancer and 12: in 
Sagittarius. This view appears to be more authentic because - 


a. Mars if placed in Aries may not harm the native as it is placed 
in own & fiery and moveable sign. 

b. For Leo ascendant, Mars happens to be the Yogakaraka & in the 
4t house it may not harm, as it is there in its own sign Scorpio, 
which is watery but fixed sign. 

c. For Cancer ascendant, Mars is Yogakaraka and if it is placed in 
7* house in Capricom, which happens to be sign of exaltation of 
Mars, there will be no Kuja dosha. Here Mars is exalted, placed 
in earthy, movable sign. 

d. For Sagittarius ascendant, Mars is said to cause no Kuja dosha in 
Cancer because it is the lord of 12* house & 5th house and its 
placement in the 8* gives rise to Vipreet Rajyoga. However, this 
disposition of Mars may not be auspicious for children. This sign 
Cancer is the sign of debilitation of Mars but it is friendly and 
movable sign. 

e. Mars in 12 house in Sagittarius is said to cause no Kuja dosha. 
For Capricorn ascendant, Mars is the lord of lim & 4 house. 
Jupiter, who is friendly to Mars, owns Sagittarius. 4t: & 11" lord 
in 12" house is considered bad but the above-mentioned great 
scholars of astrology consider that Mars in 12m house does not 
give rise to Kuja dosha. It does not appear to be very scientific 
as far as our humble opinion is considered. 


a f arta uge waafre faad 1 
aad weoefie: wreatonf facafa 11 


On earth no purifier is as great as knowledge. He who has at- 
tained purity of heart through practice of Karmyogaautoatically 
sees the light of truth in the self, in the course of time. 


CHAPTER 2.5 


RE-UNDERSTANDING 
JUPITER'S ROLE IN 
KUJA DOSHA 


Unlike friends, though friends 


lhe computation of planetary positions and weighing of their 
relative strengths is a task that arrives at a high degree of accuracy 


provided due care is taken with respect to all astrological factors. 
Several operational factors have to be taken into account concerning the 
planet while judging a horoscope. There are certainly a few traditional 
interpretations, which yield to certain definitive, down-to-earth and 
practical predictions, forming the guiding principles for most of the 
practitioners of Astrology. 

Among the many intriguing problems and aspects of esoteric 
astrology, the nexus of Mars and Jupiter is held very important. Their 
mutual stationing, nature of aspect, and ownership of Mars and Jupiter 
are usually considered auspicious. This is based on the view that Jupiter's 
high degree of wisdom influencing Mars’ aggressive pride acts as an 
encouragement to the latter to move ahead in wisdom and bold action. 

In actual cases, the result often proves quite opposite. Especially, 
much depends on the signs on which Mars and Jupiter are posited. A 
mistake in taking this into consideration introduces elements of inaccu- 
racy. We may take here one example. The relationship between Mars 
and Moon is considered good. Both are friendly to each other, but do 


112 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


they yield good result when aspecting each other? Mars is debilitated 
in Moon's sign, while Moon is debilitated in Libra, while Saturn gets 
exalted in it. 

In this chapter, an attempt has been made to enquire into the queer 
aspect of this quite unfriendly behaviour exhibited by staunch friends 
Mars and Jupiter. 

The general understanding is that Mars and Jupiter are friends. That 
Jupiter's aspect on or conjunction with Mars reduces the evils caused 
by the malefic nature of Mars. Kuja dosha, for example, is treated as 
cancelled if Mars is associated with Jupiter or is aspected by it. However, 
blindly following this as a rule leads to wrong calculations. Kuja 
dosha is not cancelled or mitigated, if Jupiter provides its aspects to 
Mars. 

If we examine the nature of Mars and Jupiter we will find that Mars 
is exalted in Capricorn where Jupiter gets debilitated, while Jupiter's 
exaltation sign is cancer where Mars is debilitated. This indicates that 
they are not strictly friendly, though they remain friends. 


Bort yatepesttaaca: ategyat taacgottar: | 


aay: ae: §9=uPragelstiar ga el epee = gert 
Pt | 


-aqo - 4/28 


Mars actually has twin streaks. It is aggressive and short-tempered. 
These play havoc in various forms in the native's life. These faults cause 
accidents, injuries, fires, burns and hatred. They give rise to personality 
defects, which actually tend to harm those persons who remain in close 
association with such persons. On the other hand, the good points in 
favour of the Martian person are that they are bold and frank. 

With Jupiter, the opposite is the case. For total lack of patience and 
tolerance in Mars, Jupiter exhibits remarkable tenacity in holding on to 
itself against the onslaughts of misfortunes. The ascendance of Jupiter 
means that the subject is gentle, sober, wealthy, intelligent and blessed 
with happiness and children. He has a saintly temperament and possesses 
a lot of patience and tolerance. 

These opposite natures of Mars and Jupiter have let pundits proclaim 
that Jupiter nullifies all Mars's evils or at any rate minimises them. 


Thus, Jupiter's placement in lagna counteracts all evils 


vatfacraatara:  wzpréeparell 


RE-UNDERSTANDING JUPITER'S ROLE IN KUJA DOSHA 113 


wedtteera: vita aaa / 
vet wefa gRafa wageath 


aren wyad sa avert worrat:. | / ¥UT0. 12/1 


The classics have mostly opined that the native having Mars Jupiter 
together in his birth chart will be an artisan, Vedic scholar, and an 
intelligent and voluble person. The native will be fond of using weapons. 


frergfaeneaat «oaterrat oaftaeneat = afar! 
aexq fuatera: yrpeguat: wareraal: 1! 
wo. 15/4 


Our own experience and interpretation of actual happenings in lives of 
some natives has made us conclude that though Mars and Jupiter are 
friends, the result of their actions is often adverse. They are together like 
the legendary triumvirate of Brahma and Vishnu and Shiva, the creator, 
the preserver and the destroyer, existing next to each other, but each 
facing in opposite direction. So is the condition of Mars and Jupiter, 
together back to back, each looking in the other direction: Janns faced. 
This curious nature of their inter-relationship and its effect on a native's 
life is a matter of serions consideration. 


Mars? Influence: The Sinner's wink 


Mars is a violent and fearless planet excessively proud of itself and 
aggressive to all intents and purposes. When Mars is positioned along 
with Jupiter, considered a 'guru' among planets the aggressive nature 
of Mars does not permit Jupiter to exhibit its goodness to its full extent. 

The friendship of Mars and Jupiter may be seen as that between a 
criminal and saint. Under the nefarious influence of the criminal, most 
of the good qualities of the saint get subdued if not cancelled altogether. 
Mars, on the other hand, gets a lot of shelter from Jupiter, the large- 
hearted planet. Underneath this easily acquired shelter, Mars exhibits its 
worst nature resulting in much hardship and harm to the native. When 
Mars is conjoined with or when it opposes Jupiter, there is havoc in the 
native's life. The creative nature of Jupiter is totally curtailed. Jupiter 
then confers its auspicious effect in only those areas of life, which are 
beyond the pale of Mars. 


Any area where Mars has no role to play will not be deprived of the 
beneficence of Jupiter and, in fact, Jupiter will not be a hindrance to 
Mars in such matters. Jupiter may be seen, in fact, as provoking Mars 
with its endless preaching and sermonising. 


114 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


Contrary to popularly held view, therefore, we cannot blindly 
conclude that Jupiter checks the evils of Mars. In fact, being friends it 
unwittingly aids and abets Mars in its evil designs at places. 


Wanted to do wrong: Role of Mars 


Now, if Mars occupies the sign ruled by Jupiter, ie. Sagittarius or Pisces, 
it will damage the house, as is its wont. It is difficult to change one's 
nature unless one is kept under strict administrative control like that of 
the Sun. Jupiter lacking in ability at administrative control, Mars takes 
over the reins when posited in Jupiter's sign. 

Again, should Jupiter be placed in the sign of Mars, good result 
cannot be expected from that honse. It is like a sage residing in a ruffian's 
house; the good qualities of the sage are somehow stifled. 

There is a great difference in the effects in case of Mars residing 
in the sign of Jupiter and in Jupiter residing in the sign of Mars. In the 
former case, the damaging effects of Mars will be observed while in the 
latter event, the benefic effects of Jupiter are curbed. 

This, in our view, makes for a curious and complex case of 
friendship between Mars and Jupiter, For those who are not able to gulp 
it down that Jupiter and Mars are not good to the native if they dispose 
each other, we would like to put it in a different manner. In Vedas Jupiter 
is named as Brihaspati and Mars as Angarak. The nomenclature 
Brihaspati is derived in Sanskrit from 'Brih' 'Dhatu' which basically 
implies expansion. So thé main significance of Brihaspati is expansion 
of everything, which is aspected by it. In astrology the Jupiter is treated 
to be the benefic-most planet and all virtuous things are ascribed to it. 
Friendship is, undoubtedly, nothing but a very virtuous thing and it can't 
happen that Jupiter can betray the friendship with a friend like Mars. 
Such is the commitment of the friendship of Jupiter. But we all know 
that no such virtuous and pious commitments are attached in astrology 
to Mars. Therefore, it happens that whenever Jupiter aspects Mars it 
helps the Mars to get its all qualities extended to the maximum extent. 
If Mars becomes the dispositor of Jupiter than it is the Jupiter who looses 
everything to Mars and gets characterised himself as Mars. Therefore, 
the great pioneers of astrology, like Kalyan Verma had rightly concluded 
about the effects of Jupiter that get modified with the relation of Mars. 
Hence it is crystal clear that whenever unblemished Jupiter aspects Mars 
it creates all situations conducive to the expansion of the fullest Kuja 
dosha in a nativity. Therefore, our experience is not contrary to the 


RE-UNDERSTANDING JUPITER'S ROLE IN KUJA DOSHA 115 


logical conclusion of the astrological principles and attributes of the 
planets, Jupiter and Mars. 

In another instance, if Jupiter occupies its own sign but is aspected 
by Mars, there will be some evil effects. If Mars occupies its own sign, 
much of the expected auspicious effects of Jupiter are suppressed. If 
Mars occupies its own sign and Jupiter aspects it, Mars is greatly 
perturbed and has a tendency to display its harmful nature. The increase 
in Mars's tendency to harm in such a combination is directly proportional 
to the degree of aspects. The greater the aspect the greater is the prospect 
of disaster in the native's life. 


agit: ad: aetrat frgearta: era: vetetter: / 
vrrorrattaatett §=veta es ereerteeptser Ueweet/ / 
fayasttea gRaa: Te sea yqeatacas 
waeaicel ap yen: yar sala // 

-aio - 25/17 


If Mars occupies. Sagittarius, the native will receive many wounds; shall 
be emaciated; will be harsh in speech; shall be crafty, alienated, a warrior 
endowed with chariots, elements and army men. He will throw arrows 
on enemy's army from his chariot, be happy with hard work, will lose 
his happiness and suffer many losses, and will not honour elders. 

Kalyan Verma hints that Mars, if in Pisces, does not favour the 
native. 


worat aAeeya: «yvarTaelta: caaceraRaga: 1 
wee daaetea adeat fanret ass 
frgaisfadieretat xe fgoaranet uaréte: 1 
slerdear sat eqlafvutsort wot wea: 1) 
-WM0-  25/23-24 


Should Mars be in Pisces at the time of one's birth, the person will be 
troubled by diseases, will have indifferent children, will live in foreign 
lands, will be insulted by his own relatives, will lose al! his money on 
account of a cunning and deceitful disposition, will be depressed in 
spirits, shall be very miserable, will disrespect elders and Brahmins, shall 
be unkind, will try to gauge others' desires, will be fond of others praise 
and become famous. 

Thus, Mars gives malefic results in the signs owned by Jupiter because 
of its inherent nature. The doings of Mars canse upheavals in the life 


116 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


of the native and may even become a canse of total destruction of the 
man. There is a great need to understand this, if such a muling of 
planets exists in one's birth chart, and take the remedial measures in all 
respects. 


Habits of Grandeur: Stand of Jupiter 
What happens when Jupiter occupies the sign of Mars? 


afey?: aries: Terese «=~ wAeot: | 
ucnernetage vwedfuena wat ass 
toed «Eg atgerned: esatfeaerdte: 1 
westyesaret std feat sda you: 1) 

-alO - 27/1-2 


If Jupiter is posited in Aries at birth, one will be argumentative in 
disposition and will acquire precious stones and ornaments out of own 
efforts. Sons and wealth will attain eminence, the native will go in for 
many expenses, will have an injured body and will confer cruel and fierce 
punishment. 


qeereart «oaserat asuladgerereneat «= ferqur: / 
eqdaayrpal Ugqagareier Yared / / 
eend: adea: waraerat yet asracatertey 
qua eaferal qaftear me forded! / 

-aro - 27/16 


If Jupiter occupies Scorpio, the native will be an expert in Shastras, shall 
be a king, a commentator of many 'Bhashas', skilful, will construct 
temples and towns, will have many wives but few sons, shall be: troubled 
by diseases, undergo many difficulties, shall be virtuous and will indulge 
in contemptuons acts. 

Varahmihira also has stated in chapter 18 of Brihat Jatak that a 
person bom with Jupiter in Aries or Scorpio will be a commander of 
armies, will be very rich, will have many wives and children, will be 
liberal in gifts, will have good servants, will be of a patient nature 
and of bright appearance, will be happy with his wife and will be 
of great fame. But if Mars occupies Jupiter's sign, the subject will 
have many enemies, will be the minister of a kind, will be of widespread 
fame, will be fearless and will have very few children. This is expressed 
thus: 


RE-UNDERSTANDING JUPITER'S ROLE IN KUJA DOSHA 117 


se: wwesye: utaweaa aware vretfa: | 
sicedt frarantea atueta: 
EUATTATAAAE: 

-ao - 25/9 


If Mars occupies a Jupiterean sign, ie., Pisces or Sagittarius, and is 
aspected by Jupiter, the reverse is the position and the native is devoid 
of wife and happiness. Thus, 


aya AAU ueftrarredanty fag: as 
wa fara was wiles Beige: 11 
-a0 - 27/28 


Should Jupiter occupy a Martian sign, i.e., Aries or Scorpio, and is also 
aspected by Mars, one has a disobedient wife and children. 


‘Aspects' of Love and War 


Kalyan Verma finds that if Jupiter occupies the Martian sign and is 
aspected by Mars or Mars occupies Jupiterean sign and is aspected by 
Jupiter, one will have problems so far as marriage, subsequent marital 
life and conjugal harmony are concerned. 


wart fapatr eet ade wivarvErsg/ 
warafa pela get e@ayecdeuRaray | / 
-aio0 - 27/57 


Should Jupiter occupy its own sign and Mars lends its aspect on it, the 
native will be injured in war, will be cruel, will cause torture, will harm 
others and will loose children. 

We observe that when Jupiter occupies Martian sign or Mars 
occupies Jupiterian sign or even if they are aspected by their dispositors, 
the results will be on the adverse side as far as family life, health and 
children are concerned. The exact results will depend upon various other 
factors such as the house occupied, lagna, aspect of other planets etc. 
The nature of planets so posited should be carefully interpreted on the 
basis of placements. 

Jupiter is unable to exhibit talents whenever it is in contact with or 
is under the influence of Mars one way or the other. Mostly, Jupiter's 
Karakatwa is marred under such positions and malefic nature of Mars 
gets enhanced depending on the house occupied. 

So, it is evident from the above that when Mars and Jupiter get 


118 AN INSIGHT INIO KUJA DOSHA 


influenced by each other, either by aspect or the placement in each 
other's signs, Mars’ influence will predominate over that of Jupiter. 


Authoritative Version 


The following instances are noted as corroboration of the above views 
regarding the mutually inimical position of Mars and Jupiter when linked 
with each other. 

Astrologers before the time of Varah Mihira, in fact, considered 
Mars and Jupiter as mutually inimical, like astrologer Yavaneshwar and 
great dramatist Sudraka of yore mention in their works. It was Varah 
Mihira who first took a different stand and tried to yoke a friendly knot 
between Mars and Jupiter and this has wrongly persisted to this day. 

But if we look into the opinion of the famous astrologers even of 
this period, we find that they have rejected the stand of Varah Mihira. 
Kalyan Verma finds faults with Varah Mihira's Hora Tantra. Jagdeva, 
in his monumental Jatak Chandrika, does not give much credit to Varah 
Mihira and accepts the stand of Yavaneshwara. 

Accordingly, the combination of Mars and Jupiter, or the mutual 
aspect between them, creates in natives a desire of acquiring wealth or 
makes their nature jealous, greedy and ambitious. If the combination 
takes place in the sign of Mars or Satum (i.e., Anes, Scorpio, Capricom, 
and Aquarius), the native becomes rebellious, resentful and controver- 
sial, through he has lot of resources and energy at his command. 

Vaidyanath says that if Jupiter falls in the 7” house in the signs 
owned by Mars or Saturn, the native will have affairs with other women. 
The conjunction of Mars/ Jupiter or Mars/Satum also causes various 
involvements with opposite sex. 

Dr. B. V. Raman has also mentioned in 'Three Hundred Important 
Combinations’ that an exalted Jupiter if posited in Lagna opposite to 
Mars, which occupies the 7" house, Mati-Bhanga yoga is caused, ie. 
one loses his wisdom. 

The Founder of the Astrological Magazine and author of many 
astrological books Prof. Suryanarain Rao has also described in ‘Satyoga 
Manjari’ under the heading ‘Various Forms of Imprisonment’ that: 


(i) If Kuja (Mars) joins the 7 and Guru (Jupiter) occupies Lagna the 
person will suffer from brain diseases; 

Gi) Jupiter/Mars association curtails the accumulation of wealth even 
if in good position. 


This combination of Mars and Jupiter is particularly bad for marital life, 


RE-UNDERSTANDING JUPITER'S ROLE IN KUJA DOSHA 119 


sponse, and progeny and for the health of children. One should never 
think that evils of Mars get cancelled by the aspect or association of 
Jupiter. Kuja dosha gets promoted by the aspect of Jupiter. 

Similarly, if Mars and Jupiter are related with each other in respect to 
the 5" house, one will have to undergo serious mental torture on account 
of progeny. Jupiter-Mars opposition in the 5* and 11"honses will cause 
the death of young child or the denial of happiness in respect to children. 
In case of many other good factors and where the Lagna is quite strong, 
one may have only female issues. 

If Jupiter and Mars are related or have mutual exchange of houses in 
respect to 5", 6", 8" or 12" houses, denial of happiness from children 
is to be expected. 


How to Read the Rules 


All the verses of Saravali discussed in this chapter denote either the 
results of Mars under the influence of Jupiter or the results of Jupiter 
under the effect of Mars. However, these rules cannot be applied 
verbatim and must be seen in their complete perspective. 

In the sloka No. 17 and 18 of chapter 25 of Saravali it is written 
of Mars occupying Sagittarius: 


(a) "The native receives many wounds and shall be emaciated.’ 
This does not mean that one would receive wound and his body 
will be emaciated if Mars in Sagittarius occupies any of the twelve 
houses of the horoscope. Thes€ results should be expected when 
Mars in Sagittarius occupies the Lagna, the 6" or the 8", That is, 
this part of the rule is applicable for Sagittarius, Cancer and Tanmus 
only. 

(b) 'The native's speech will be harsh’ 

This is true for Scorpio ascendant. Under that position, Mars will 
occupy the 2" honse in Sagittarius resulting in harshness of his 
speech. 

(c) 'The subject will be crafty, alienated, a warrior or an army man. 
This part is applicable if Mars in Sagittarius falls in the 10" or 
the 4" honse ie., it is true for Pisces and Virgo ascendants. 

(d) 'He will throw arrows on enemies' forces' or in modern parlance 
inflict grave losses on the army throngh today's methods. 

This part is applicable for Mars in Sagittarins in the 6" house ie. 
for Cancer ascendant. 

(e) ‘The native will lose his happiness and money dune to anger and 
will not honour elders. 


120 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


This part of the sloka is applicable if Mars in Sagittarius occupies 
the 4"" house and the Lagna to some extent ic., for Virgo and 
Sagittarius ascendants. 


Thus we see that any position of a planet needs to be properly and 
precisely defined lest unnecessary mistakes creep in. 

In the Sloka No. 6 of Chapter 27 Kalyan Verma describes about the 
results of Jupiter in Scorpio. He writes that so placed Jupiter gives many 
wives. Bhattotpal also has the same opinion. This is applicable for Jupiter 
in Scorpio in the 7" house. Jupiter in the 5" in Scorpio may bestow a 
few sons only, as the author writes. So placed Jupiter also gives diseases 
and other difficulties. This should be read for Jupiter in Scorpio in the 
6" or the 8" house. 

Similarly, Mars in Jupiterian sign under the aspect of Jupiter keeps 
the native devoid of wife. This means that if Mars falls in the 7” house 
or the 2™ house, identical to sign Pisces or Sagittarius, under the aspect 
of Jupiter, the native will not get marital bliss or may not get happiness 
from wife or may not get married at all. 

Before confirming the results of any nativity, other factors and 
placements must also be taken into account. In this chapter, an attempt 
has been made to evaluate the finer aspects working in relation to 
planets in various positions. Such rendering also establishes that 
Mars' evils are enhanced under the influence of Jupiter while 
Jupiter does not exhibit its good qualities under the influence of 
Mars. This is the essence of the Slokas and views of Sages as quoted 
in this chapter. 

In our own experience, we have come across cases when even 
exalted Jupiter in the 7'* house and exalted Mars in Lagna have created 
severe disasters in the native's life. Generally, this placement of Jupiter 
in Cancer is treated very beneficial for marital life. Similarly, we have 
invariably noticed that Mars in the 4" house in any sign and Jupiter in 
the 10* house resulted in separations, sometimes temporary but mostly 
permanent. If Mars is tenanted in the !1"" house and Jupiter is opposite 
to Mars in the 5* house, the native is found to suffer loss of young 
children or children will be denied to him. 

The following adversities have been recorded during our practice 
of astrology, which indicate severe losses under the baneful influence 
of the undesirable Mars/ Jupiter conjunction. It may be noted that there 
are beneficial results also out of such configurations but overall the 
native ends up in heavy losses. 


RE-UNDERSTANDING JUPITER'S ROLE IN KUJA DOSHA 121 


1. The conjunction bestows authority on the native and provides him 
with a nice job, but his/her employment is not permanent: The 
native may get transferred frequently or may have to switch over 
from one job to other. 

2. The accumulated wealth is lost and one suffers from diseases, 
wounds and operations. Even deformities in limbs may occur if 
Mars occupies a Jupiterian sign and is aspected by the Moon. lf 
the aspect is powerful, deformation in limbs will exist right from 
birth. If not so powerful deformity in some form or other is likely 
to strike in later stage of life. If Mars stationed in a Jupitarean sign 
is aspected by Satum, there will be physical deformation, lack of 
happiness and an attachment to religion different from his own. 

3. The combination is most undesirable from the point of view of 
progeny, particularly if the 5™ house is afflicted due to the 
placement of either Jupiter or Mars in it while the other is in 
opposition to him. If the affliction is powerful there may not be 
any children or the children will die shortly after birth or the 
pregnancy may end up in miscarriage. If the aspect or conjunction 
of Jupiter and Mars is not so strong only female children will be 
bom in the beginning. if at all the native is blessed with a son it 
will be late in life. One sad and common feature of this combination 
of Jupiter and Mars is the death of a young son or sons, if they 
are bom in the first place. 


4. The native will have contacts with high-placed officers, ministers 
etc. If the Mars/Jupiter combination occurs in Pisces, Cancer or 
Scorpio, the native will be blessed with many children. The fortune 
shines at the age of 28 or thereafter. This combination causes much 
evil if found in female signs. Either there is a break in education 
or it is not completed. The native tends to be a liar, does backbiting 
with his associates. He is egotistical, selfish, and arrogant and does 
not fulfil his commitments. In male signs, marriage ts either 
delayed or he marries twice. 

5. If Mars and Jupiter join in the 7” house or are placed under the 
aspect of each other, synchronised with the 7" house, there will 
be a second marriage after separation from the first spouse. If the 
conjunction takes place in a female sign, there is much difficulty 
in the settlement of marriage and during childbirth. 

6. If Mars, Jupiter and Venus are placed in a quadrant from each other, 
there will be serious problems like separation, death, murder or 
total curtailment of marital happiness. 


122 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


7. For Virgo ascendant, if Mars occupies the 7" house (i.e. the sign 
of Jupiter, Pisces) the wife's life will be short. There will be danger 
to the life of the wife during Mars' Dasa. Also, this period will 
be generally full of miseries. For Aries and Virgo ascendant, if 
Jupiter is stationed in a Martian sign, the native will not live long. 

Thus, Kuja Dosha should be taken to be more powerful when Jupiter 
and Mars are in opposition and Venus is in a quadrant in reference to 
the 7" house. Even if Mars, Venus and Jupiter are associated, there will 
be discord in marriage. 

There are certain exceptions that we have found in our observations. 
For instance, the evils of Mars remain very much under contro] when 
the Sun also comes into the picture. 1f Mars and Sun are associated and 
conjoin Jupiter or are placed in opposition to Jupiter, one may not expect 
destruction or disaster. Even if Mars occupies Leo, its evil effects will 
be checked. The placement of Mars in Jupiterean sign or the placement 
of Jupiter in a Martian sign causes damage to certain aspects of life but, 
if Mars comes under the influence of the Sun either by aspect or 
conjunction, good results are assured. 


Conclusions on a Strange Astrological Relationship 


The relationship between Jupiter and Mars chiefly and adversely influ- 
ences the state of health (especially deformities), marital life and 
progeny. Different case histories cited in the following discussion 
establish the veracity of the fundamental principles, as elaborated above. 
What needs to be stressed is that great caution is needed in selecting 
the match for matrimony when the horoscope of the prospective match 
shows a queer relationship between Mars and Jupiter. 

The conclusion regarding the chart can only be arrived at safely after 
a careful judgement of the sign, house, ownership, aspect and association 
of the two planets. The nature of results will vary according to the 
position of Mars. A few cases of various positions of Mars in opposition 
to Jupiter are taken up as below. 


Illustration No. 2.5.1 Horoscope No. 12 
Mars in 2"* Challenges Jupiter 


It may be noted that Mars is placed in 2™ house, opposite to Jupiter. 
Jupiter joins Martian sign, Venus is also in quadrant to them. The rule 
is applicable. Her husband was a doctor. He committed suicide on 
19.3.85 due to family quarrels, within three years of his marriage. The 
lady of this horoscope is now leading a very miserable life. 


RE-UNDERSTANDING JUPITER'S ROLE IN KUJA DOSHA 123 


Illustration No.2.5.1 Horoscope No. 12 

Bom on 19.7.1952 at 11:23:00 hrs. 

Place: Hardoi Long 80:10 E Lat. 27:29 N 
Balance of Mahadasha of Mars 1Y 10M 2D 


PLANETARY DEGREES 


Asc 170 : 27 
Sun 93 : 17 
Moon 63 : 09 
Mars 196 : 38 
Mercury 119 : 37 
Jupiter 23: 35 
Venus 100 : 01 
Saturn 166 : 12 
Rahu 299 : 38 
Ketu 119 ; 38 


NAVAMSA 


124 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


Illustration No. 2.5.2 Horoscope No. 13 


Mars in 4 Challenges Jupiter 

The native is a smart and talented engineer in R.DS.O. posted at 
Lucknow. He got married in 1980 with the daughter of a Managing 
Director of L.S.GE.D. During the year 1985 they lost all hopes of 
begetting children. Gradually, this feeling of never becoming a father 
overwhelmed the native who started disliking his wife. Afterwards, this 
created lots of havoc in both the families resulting in separation. 

In this horoscope, the native has a minor Kuja dosha due to 
placement of Mars in the 4" house. The aspect of Jupiter on Mars 
aggravated the evils of Kuja dosha so much that they have been 
separated. It should be taken for granted that Jupiter- Mars opposition 
in a horoscope will be creating serious damages and losses in marital 
life. In case of such natives the partners should also have similar 
afflictions. 


Illustration No. 2.5.3 Horoscope No. 14 


Mars in 7™ Challenges Jupiter 


Note that exalted Mars joins 7" house. Jupiter occupies Lagna in the 
exaltation sign. Both Jupiter and Mars are exalted and aspect each other 
in this position. This position, even of exalted Jupiter and Mars could 
not check the great wrecking in the marital life of this most beautiful 
and talented girl. She got married with an engineer in February 1975. 
This was a love and inter-caste marriage. After a continuous strained 
5 years of their married life, the girl divorced her husband. 

We can see that Kuja dosha is enhanced due to opposition of Jupiter, 
resulting in the miserable married life, havoc and disasters. 


Illustration No. 2.54 Horoscope No. 15 


Mars in 12" Challenges Jupiter 


Here Mars joins !2'" house and is tenanted in the sign of Jupiter. Jupiter 
also aspects him by sitting in opposition to him. The 1!2* house is 
connected with bed-pleasure. The husband of this beautiful lady has slept 
with her three times only in her married life of 8 years. Her husband 
has a concubine. The native is leading a very critical and miserable life 
without him. Had Jupiter cancelled Kuja dosha, why did this disaster 
come in her life? 


RE-UNDERSTANDING JUPITER'S ROLE IN KUJA DOSHA 125 


Illustration No. 2.5.2 Horoscope No.13 
Born on 17:03:1954 at 18:01:00 hrs. 
Place: Muzaffarnagar Long 77:42 E Lat. 29:28 N 
Balance of Mahadasha of Ketu 1Y 3M 5D 
LAGNA 


PLANETARY DEGREES 


Asc 148 : 02 
Sun 333 : 10 
Moon 130 : 56 
Mars 235 : 30 
Mercury 308 + 53 
Jupiter 55: 10 
Venus 344 : 32 
Saturn 195: 29R 
Rahu 267 : 32 
Ketu 87 : 32 


NAVAMSA 


126 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


Illustration No. 2.5.3 Horoscope No.14 

Born on 05.11.1954 at 23:50:00 hrs. 

Place: Lucknow Long 80:56 E Lat. 26:51 N 
Balance of Mahadasha of Rahu 9Y 6M 9D 


PLANETARY DEGREES 


Asc 113: 7 
Sun 199 : 34 
Moon 312 : 56 
Mars 286 : 52 
Mercury 186: 24R 
Jupiter 96 : 29 
Venus 214 :22R 
Saturn 198 : 56 
Rahu 255: 9 
Ketu 1:9 


NAVAMSA 


RE-UNDERSTANDING JUPITER'S ROLE IN KuJA DOSHA 127 


Illustration No. 254 Horoscope No. 15 

Bom on 07:01:1957 at 12:28:00 hrs. 

Place: Bulandshahar Long 77:54 E Lat. 28:24 N 
Balance of Mahadasha of Jupiter 2Y 9M 4D 


PLANETARY DEGREES 


Asc 03: 17 
Sun 263 : 27 
Moon 331 : Ol 
Mars 354 : 03 
Mercury 270 : STR 
Jupiter 158 : 24 
Venus 239 : 47 
Satum 226: 41 R 
Rahu 213 : 02 
Ketu 33 : 02 


NAVAMSA 


128 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


Illustration No. 2.5.5 Horoscope No. 16 
Mars opposing Jupiter 


This kind-hearted and beautiful girl had suffered a great misery after her 
marriage. She got married in Bombay on 6.4.83 and got separated on 
22.10.83. The reason was very simple; the treatment of her mother-in- 
law was worst possible. She was compelled to leave a good husband 
who could not take a stand against his mother. 

See the position of Mars in 4" house and opposition of Jupiter and 
Venus in 10%, Thus, Mars caused a Kuja dosha in 4" which is neither 
minimised nor cancelled on account of Jupiter's aspect, rather Jupiter 
has enhanced Kuja dosha. 

Various examples may be given in reference to our findings. There 
is a great need of further research on the valuable combination to avoid 
many a mishap. But the researches must be conducted on the basis of 
classical texts under practical experience. 


Illustration No. 2.5.6 Horoscope No. 17 


This is the horoscope of an executive officer of U.P.D.E.S.C.O. She is 
a Christian lady who got married with a Hindu boy. This marriage was 
an inter-caste as well as an inter-religion marriage. —~ 

The couple met while they were studying in the University. The boy 
proposed to the girl, which she willingly accepted, as the boy looked 
exceptionally simple, inclined towards study and did not belong to a very 
highly placed family. A court marriage was solemnised on October 19, 
1978 but this was not revealed to the families. On 22" April 1979, the 
boy's father arranged a marriage, which was solemnised by Arya Samaj 
rituals. 


The husband ofthe girl nevertheless had the tendency to be attracted 
by any girl he saw. He kept drifting from the wife and inclined towards 
extra-marital affairs neglecting the wife and leaving her at the mercy of 
her in-laws. There were many fights basically with the family. They are 
at the moment separated practically, though the boy's parents are trying 
now to get back the girl and repent for their misdeeds. 

The position of Mars in the 4"" house may be noted in opposition 
to Jupiter. It is clear that thus Mars Dosha has been enhanced to a 
considerable extent. Mars alone will not cause so many evils as when 
there is also an opposition of Mars by Jupiter. 

The following conclusions are established therefore: 


RE-UNDERSTANDING JUPITER'S ROLE IN KUJA DOSHA 129 


Illustration No. 2.5.5 Horoscope No. 16 

Born on 16.10.1956 at 09:10:00 hrs. 

Place: Varanasi Long 83:00 E Lat. 25:20 N 
Balance of Mahadasha of Rahu 3Y 3M 26D 


PLANETARY DEGREES 


Asc 220 : 54: 06 
Sun 149 : 29: 57 
Moon 317 : 32: 22 
Mars 320 : 06: 51 
Mercury 132322: B 
Jupiter 147 : 34: 53 
Venus 138: 15: 17 
Saturn 217 : 17: 33 
Rahu 216 3; 22: 29 
Ketu 36:22: 29 


NAVAMSA 


130 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


Illustration No. 2.5.6 
Born on 09.04.1952 
Place: Lucknow 
Balance of Mahadasha of 


Moon 
Mars 
Mercury 
Jupiter 
Venus 
Saturn 
Rahu 
Ketu 


NAVAMSA 


Horoscope No.17 

at 12:00:00 hrs. 

Long 80:56 E Lat. 26:51 N 
Rahu 9Y 6M 9D 


coe 


DEGREES 


92 : 06 
356 : 09 
162 : 59 
201 : 41 
349 : 28 
02 : 06 
128 : 57 


RE-UNDERSTANDING JUPITER'S ROLE IN KUJA DOSHA 131 


Should Mars occupy Jupiterean sign, Sagittarius or Pisces, the 
results will be disastrous. 


. Should Jupiter occupy Martian sign, Aries or Scorpio, the results 


will be quite unhappy. 


. Should Mars occupy Jupiterean sign and is also aspected by Jupiter, 


the greater havoc will be there with respect to the house having 
Mars. Here Mars comes under the provocation through well- 
intentioned influences of Jupiter. 


. Should Jupiter occupy Martian sign and is also aspected by Mars 


the results are near fatal and evils are evident. 


And if Mars and Jupiter, related to each other, have by combination, 


combined or square influence on Venus, marital disharmony is sure to 
be there. 


As such the following points should be kept in mind while com- 


menting on the relationship of Mars and Jupiter:- 


1. 


Jupiter is exalted in Cancer where Mars is debilitated. On the 
contrary Mars is exalted in Capricorn where Jupiter gets debili- 
tated. 


. Jupiter does not harm Mars, but Mars harms Jupiter. If Mars gets 


stationed in Jupiterian sign, there will certainly be one or the other 
loss due to the malefic nature of Mars. 


. Similarly, if Jupiter occupies Martian sign, he will not be able to 


exhibit his good qualities due to the terror of Mars, where Jupiter 
is tenanted. 

Mars does not speak to Jupiter or allows Jupiter to benefit the 
native in those areas, which are under the contro] of Mars. Thus 
the native will be affected by Jupiter's goodness only in those areas 
where Mars has nothing to do and are out of the areas of Mars. 
Mars and Jupiter are peculiar friends. So Jupiter does not check 
the evils of Mars. Under such a position when Jupiter (Guru) is 
with Mars, Mars gets encouraged to harm more and more because 
of their friendship and shelter. 


. We have observed that though Jupiter and Mars are friends but they 


are opposite in nature. Mars in the sign of Jupiter is more harmful 
than any other sign, similarly Jupiter in the sign of Mars should 
not be treated as good. We are referring all this in context of the 
7 house in particular. So if both of them come in contact either 
by aspect or association there is bound to be harm. Since Mars in 
15) 2"¢ 4*, 7", 8* and 12* causes Kuja dosha which is treated 


132 


AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


as bad for matrimonial happiness in one way or the other, if Jupiter 
is also associated with so placed Mars Kuja dosha is enhanced and 
not cancelled or minimised. 

If Venus, Mars and Jupiter are in quadrant from each other the 
havoc after marriage will come with great intensity. 

Sun is the kindest of all planets. It is honoured for discipline and 
strict control. Jupiter and Mars both are friends of the Sun. So, 
when the combination of Jupiter and Mars is under the influence 
of the Sun, the evils of Mars are greatly minimised. 

If Mars and Jupiter are placed together or in opposition of each 
other, the native must get married with a person having similar 
affliction in her or his horoscope. 


SECTION 3 


CONJUNCTIONS OF MARS 
WITH OTHER PLANETS 


THE COJUNCTIONS 
WITH MARS 


We have already discussed the effects of Mars, in all the sensitive 
houses, where Kuja dosha is given rise to. These results get modified 
heavily, or may even be reversed, due to the conjunction of Mars with 
other planets in these houses. It has been said earlier that while 'Kuja 
Dosha' or 'Mangli Dosha' is at it's zenith for Mars, other natural 
malefics namely 'Rahu’, 'Ketu', Sun and Saturn do also cause or 
augment the effects of Kuja dosha and therefore cannot be ignored 
while diagnosing whether the subject is Mangli. Further to add to this, 
our readers must have noticed while going through the results of Mars 
in various houses that the net or evident impact of ‘Mangal Dosha’ 
is very much dependent on the association of Mars with some malefic 
or benefic. It is for this reason that combination of Mars with other 
planets must not be ignored while matching the horoscope for 
marriage. Hence we are presenting a comprehensive coverage of the 
planetary chemistry related to Mars. In the following pages we will 
discuss about the effects that the conjunction of Mars, with other 
planets, generates: - 


1. Mars-Saturn conjunction. This is an important conjunction of two 
first-rate malefic planets. 

2. Mars-Moon conjunction in various houses has also got an 

important bearing on the results of Kuja dosha. 

Mars-Venus conjunction 

Mars-Mercury conjunction 

Mars-Sun_ conjunction 

Mars-Jupiter conjunction 

. Mars-Nodes conjunction 


NDAARYW 


atergaft wale: waters faftern: + 
eafasterq gfeatet afearecrteafa | / 


From anger arises infatuation. From infatuation, confusion of 
memory: from confusion of memory, loss of reason: and from loss 
of reason one goes to complete ruin. 


CHAPTER 3.1 


MARS-SATURN CONJUNCTION 


ars and Saturn are malefics of high order as far as ‘Mangli 
Meee is concerned. The basic characteristics of Mars like 
fickle mindedness, expertise in killing others, red eyed, bilious 
nature, representative of war, weapon, wound and fire, young etc. have 
already been described. The Saturn however is deceptive, bilious in 
constitution, lazy, having long hands and feet, disturbed mind; is slow 
in habits, tall, and has thick hair and large teeth. Stupidity, cruelty, 
backbiting, high caution and responsibility are it's characteristics. 
Especially for our naive readers, it should here be clarified that 
although the two planets individually are capable of producing certain 
traits, combination of the qualities of the two planets does not necessarily 
result when they are in a conjunction in a house. The effects of the two 
lords in combination gets moulded on the basis of their lordship, nature 
of the house they are in and their disposition to the lord of the house. 
Sometimes, the evils of the two lords also disappear and 'Raja Yoga' 
results. 


(a) Mars—Saturn Combination in the ‘Lagna’ - 
Let us look at the observations made in the different texts: 
In Chapter 31, sloka 59* of Saravali Kalyan Verma writes: 
wanaatiaan aactteat xaxacyen: | 
mapands eaarg: afioreneaed | / 


The subject emerges victorious in wars and is the enemy of his own 
mother, short lived and unlucky. 


MARS-SATURN CONJUNCTION 137 


The Hora Sara says that if Mars and Satum are present in one house, 
the native is afflicted with windy and bilious complaints like rheumatism 
and gastric troubles. Should they be in 3 6th 10* or 11* house, such 
effects cannot be anticipated; on the other hand, the stature of the native 
will be equal to that of a king and he is liked by all. He will be popular 
and famous. 


giaccaise, ute frenat aafiaetoneary | 
sqaa sat ata qeageit atewaa: wid: 1! 
Pg. 277; 19% 


Acharya Meena Raj writes in the ‘Vridha YavanJataka' chapter 42, 
sloka 154 


giagqaa wa atfaaet ertfa wea watery / 
watat forge atrarad vara wtt BaAaryreay/ / 


The subject commits sinful acts, works against the people, has harsh 
tone, is extremely short tempered and wicked. Also he is in contact with 
wicked and 'Nindit' (condemned) people. 


Garga: The subject, who commits sinful acts and defies others, is harsh- 
toned, short-tempered and wicked. 

Lagna is said to be the base of a horoscope and the malefic 
conjunction in /agna has a deterministic impact on an individual's life. 
The results, however, differ as per ascendant of the native. Let us look 
at the different results of the combination for different ascendants. 


(a) For Aries ascendant: For Aries, Mars happens to be the lord of 
the /agna. Further Saturn is in an inimical house in debility. The 
effects of lord of /agna (and 8* house) and inimical lord of the 
10" and 11"* in debility are not satisfactory. The evils are reduced 
if Jupiter happens to have an aspect on the combination. 

(b) For Taurus Ascendant, Satur is a Rajayoga Karaka and Mars is 
lord of the 12" and the 7*. Here again, Saturn is in a very friendly 
sign and good for the native, but Mars in enemy camp, in 
conjunction with Saturn does not augur well for satisfactory 
conditions and general well being of the native. Here also, aspect 
by a benefic planet can reduce the adversity of the impact. 

(c) For Gemini Ascendant, the combination is that of lords of 9* and 
the 11" in Mercury's house, which is partially good and partially 


138 


(d) 


€) 


@) 


(g) 


(h) 


(i) 


Q) 


AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


bad. Intellectual development is likely to be retarded and only 
meager earnings will result from any occupation to be undertaken 
by the native. But the person will have enormous patience to do 
volume of work, which though will be infructuous. He will suffer 
from skin diseases. 

In Cancer, Saturn joining Mars in debility does not produce a 
healthy combination. Although Mars is a “Rajayoga Karaka', the 
unholy Saturn, lord of 8*, makes one moody, extra cautious and 
lethargic. Marital life will be tough sailing. 

In Leo, Saturn is in a bitter enemy's camp but Mars as lord of 9" 
and the 4" is in a bosom friend's house. The latter is able to assert 
him in all possible ways and Saturn's malfeasance does not 
seriously affect, although it does tell upon the 7" house results in 
the choice of wife and 6 house results so far as health is 
concerned. 

In Virgo, Saturn and Mars make a rather unholy combination, both 
being lords of two evil houses, 6* and 8". Although this makes 
for ‘Vipreet Rajayoga,’ it does not usually ensure a life with bright 
features, unless redeeming features are present in the horoscope. 
For Libra, exalted Saturn is a ‘Rajayoga Karak' and Mars owns 
a 'Marak' house. The interests of the native are varied and his 
moods, handwriting, and character keep on changing. Mars is not 
allowed to misbehave beyond certain limits provided Satum is not 
debilitated in navamsa. 

For Scorpio, a real test case arises for the combination. One is 
ascendant lord and the other is the inimical lord of the 4*. Very 
often this combination spawns warriors, commanders and fighters 
of losing battles. Peculiar type of inconsistent dynamism plays a 
part in life and conjugal life is usually not smooth sailing. 

In Sagittarius, Mars is friendly and Saturn well placed. The younger 
brothers and sisters of the native will have some deficiency or the 
other. The combination of the two deadly malefics is said to be 
toned down by a sober influence of Jupiter or the lord of the house, 
but the association of the 3"? and 5* lords brings disequilibrium 
in native's life regarding his mental state and progeny. 

In Capricorn, some contradictory influences usually operate not- 
withstanding the fact that Mars is in exaltation, although in Saturn's 
house, and Saturn in his own house. Satur is a ‘Maarak’ and Mars 
is the lord of Kendra and 11". Good and bad elements alike prevail 
unless it is duly aspected by a benefic. 


MARSSATURN CONJUNCTION 139 


(k) In Aquarius ascendant, some reservations necessarily predominate, 
unlike Capricorn; Mars is in an enemy's house with the lord 
thereof. The dynamism of Mars will make the native restless, 
impatient, and irascible, sometimes a ruthless tyrant or dictator. 
Satum gives some dignity. The combination is, in any case, 
unwholesome and detrimental. Professional prospects will be 
usually very satisfactory. 

(1) In Pisces, the combination of the lords of the 9* (and 2?) and 12! 
(and 11'*) does not augur smooth sailing. Mars is somewhat 
passable as lord of the 9 and friend of Jupiter, but Saturn is not 
welcome there as lord of the 12*. Here again, Mars is heavily 
afflicted and interests in varied line flash but nothing of utility value 
will accrue. Interests in philosophy and spiritualism are likely, 
although desultory in nature. Unless countered by other factors, the 
combination is not good in such ascendant. 


(b) Mars-Saturn combination in the 2"? house: 


The Hora Sara says that if Mars and Satum are present in one house, 
the native is afflicted with windy and bilious complaints like rheumatism 
and gastric troubles. Should they be in 3", 6", 10* or 11" house, such 
effects cannot be anticipated; on the other hand, the stature of the native 
will be equal to that of a king and he is liked by all. He will be popular 
and famous. 


gaaceaise, att fsenalt araftartasai 
waa wat aq qugen aledada: wia: si) 
Pg. 277; 19 


Acharya Meena Raj writes in the 'Vridha YavanJataka' sloka 15" 
of chapter 43 


ututsaal sigerat eratreett at” «Wad Irarrvaay | 
fa: ed word easeanra ‘fasreettaepsrafstarera’ “1 | 


The subject, fond of other's wife, is destitute, diseased and believes in 
artificial behaviour. Though he is of good character, the native does not 
possess sacred characteristics. 

Garga says, the native, who is wealthy and possesses grains, pearls 
and other costly stones, has few sons and is a liar. 

The combination usually gives heavy expenditure, as the second 


140 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


house is the regulator of 'Dhan' (money). Further the combination may 
result in mental derangement. The person will have no patrimony; will 
have diseased eyes and a deformed limb. He will speak harshly and will 
meet his end through blood poison, or weapon hit. The person will 
command self respect and will be amiable. 


(c) Mars-Saturn combination in the 4" house 


Kalyan Verma writes in Saravali, in 60" sloka of chapter 31. 


Taamtenrffea: rcandwarat safe ata: 1 
sataeaaege frtea faarsfa: wy: 11 


The subject has to suffer from pangs of hunger and thirst, and is forsaken 
by his own relatives. He is devoid of friends and commits sinful acts. 

The Hora Sara says that if Mars and Saturn are present in one house, 
the native is afflicted with windy and bilious complaints like rheumatism 
and gastric troubles. Should they be in 3° 6*, 10" or 11"" house, such 
effects cannot be anticipated; on the other hand, the stature of the native 
will be equal to that of a king and he is liked by all. He will be popular 
and famous. 


eaaccaseg aat forenal arafiaetosargys 
svaa aat ada quigqern aleaaa? waa: 1! 
Pg. 277; 19 


Acharya Meena Raj writes in the ‘Vridha Yavan Jataka' in chapter 45, 
sloka 15* 


alata: ydtya: gae ae yadweg: Ws 
saga rwiefaaltarca qtaeatiafaryaaqi | 


If Mars and Saturn are placed in the 4* house the native has to face 
lot of agonies. He spends on wicked and immoral activities. He is 
deprived of love and affection and remains involved in immoral activi- 
ties. 

Garga says that the native will be subjected to much grief. He will 
spend wrongfully, perform mean acts and be garrulous and unfriendly. 

The presence of two malefics in the fourth house results in concep- 
tion taking no effect. As per natal chart, the native is afflicted with 
diseases and troubled by relatives, and remains childless. His mother is 
sickly and short-lived. He will not lead a comfortable life and gets 
involved in litigation regarding ancestral properties. He will adopt a son. 


MARSSATURN CONJUNCTION 141 


(d) Mars-Saturn combination in the 7" honse 
In chapter 31, sloka 61 of the Saravali, Kalyan Verma writes 


arargeyaétan eer enfiredt eracrefta: | 
at atea atderda —acraaatoae arafass 


The subject is deprived of wife, happiness and children. He is poor, 
sickly, lecherous, and greedy and troubled by others. 

The combination does not promote the prospects of the 7* house 
affairs. The native will generally have intrigues with other women and 
his marriage might be delayed. The partner will have sickly appearance 
or short life and be fickle minded. In matching of the horoscopes this 
position of the two malefics will have to be scrutinized carefully in the 
charts of both boy and girl and the malfeasance of the lords suitably 
allowed for. Further ‘Bhrigu Sutram’ has cautioned the astrologer while 
predicting about this combination if Mars is highly afflicted. The subject 
may be a homosexual or even does shameful sexual acts like kissing 
genitals, if Saturn is associated with Mars. 


Vridha YavanJataka, chapter 48, sloka 15" says 
omit sacra at wed wes 
abraand teacanadygevatorafa Tes! 


The subject is diseased, weak, squealer, vain and involved in sinful acts. 
(ce) Mars-Saturn combination in the 8 house 


Acharya MeenaRaj writes in the 'Vridha Yavan Jataka' in sloka 15* 
of Chapter 49* 


muta sireaiscarentat vadiaea fara) 
ue wie afaatitaraan = ettetéter  wegeatraray ss 
The subject has physical deformities, wicked wife and lacks intelligence. 
Though he lives abroad, he is devoid of qualities and forsaken by all. 
Garga: He suffers from many diseases, has emaciated body, pro- 
motes quarrels, and commits sinful acts, but he is very handsome. 
The effects related to the marital affairs are same as in the 7". Mars 
in the 8" is stated to inflict maximum affliction on matrimony and when 
conjunct with another malefic, he does no less damage. The person 
suffers from mental diseases, epilepsy, heart complaints and heart 
attacks. Death is likely through weapons, missiles and poisonous dis- 
eases. 


142 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


(f) Mars-Saturn combination in the 12m house 


Acharya Meena Raj writes in the 'VridhaYavanJatakas' in sloka 15* 
of chapter 53 


aentia sara: watt ay wad faftreneactsay 
atta ay waratd aeleapmatived aaa / / 


The subject has no knowledge of rituals. He is wounded, troubled, 
unlucky and ungrateful. 

Garga: The subject will be ugly, devoid of intelligence, childless, 
and has an extremely wicked wife. He will live in foreign countries. 

The subject is likely to suffer from severe complaints in the left eye 
and ear. His parents will be troubled and earnings will be spent on 
debanchery and on persons with immoral character. Most expenses will 
be through a brother, and he will die of consumptive diseases and from 
injuries and burn. 


(g) Mars-Saturn combination in the 5th house 
statsaa: ytya: gaert até vad aaarftataas 
willed geld waa aetatta atau i 
The subject is inflicted and troubled with wound and injury. He is pained 
by females; is wicked, backbiter and does not easily forgive others’ 
faults. 

Garga: The subject is devoid of the knowledge of Shastras, and 
afflicted with wounds, boils, and eye diseases. He is unlucky and 
sexually distressed. 

In the 5* house, the conjunction does not have good effects unless 
the planets own quadrants and trines, without simultaneous ownership 
of the three evil houses, the 6m, the 8* and the 12". The nsual effects 


otherwise are that the person is cruel, dull and deprived of happiness 
from his children. 


aa eltaad ate; aseqcta, aft asa: 
qee-aeqeut-ned eftact wey-wota: = 


‘Sandal is considered cold in the world and Moon is colder than 
sandal, But company of anoble person is coolest as compared 
with Sandal and the Moon. 


CHAPTER — 3.2 


MARS-MOON CONJUNCTION 


oon is the closest planet to Earth and stands for body, 
Mew and for king's favour. However, the conjunction of 
Moon with Mars results in several distortions, though it is 
good for finance. The subject may be deceptive, wicked, liar, disobedient 
and harsh towards his mother. However, some positive aspect of a 
benefic, or some other points in aid, will reduce this adversity and instead 
the subject may be brave and victorious. 
The conjunction, however, is excellent combination from financial 
angle. 
Mantreshwar writes in Phaldeepika chapter 18, sloka gna. 


eeamadeyey Rd aq: was: eet 

wa: waagtefferqo aleroasteltaayg ! 

fused pageantherata fateat ufster 

aan ufua:tentesea ate: yafyaqss 
The subject may deal in hammers, ploughs and similar rough implements 
and earthen pots. He will not obey his mother. 

The subject is likely to earn profit from business related to rough 
implements like hammers, plough and other steel instruments. Also he 
may earn money from the sale of spurious liquor and earthen jars. Sages 
have termed this yoga as 'Chandra Mangal Yoga’. However, they have 
always associated some negative qualities with these positive points. For 
example, the subject with this yoga, may be a successful businessman 
in liquor, which was socially ridiculed or condemned in ancient times. 


14 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


Thus, translated in today's context, the jobs like custom and excise and 
tannery etc. come in the purview of 'Chandra Mangal Yoga'. The 
conjunction is especially instrumental in the accumulation of wealth 
though the means may be anachronistic in ancient times. 

Sages have not appreciated the combination from the point of 
view of marriage. An aphorism from a well-known classic has mentioned 
that: 

'The subject has unhappy marital life because his wife is quarrel- 
some and short-tempered. If the native is a female, she will be too bold, 
arrogant and commanding. She may even drink. If Mars were in adverse 
aspect, there would be much discord and disharmony. This will be 
particularly in the 7" and the 4* house and in Aries, Leo and Sagittarius 
signs. If Mars is in Cancer having an aspect of Saturn, wife of the native 
may be lewd and vulgar' 


(a) Mars—Moon Conjunction in the ‘Lagna’ 


This conjunction in /agna is excellent for prosperity and accumulation 
of wealth —* a general feature of Chandra Mangal Yoga. However, the 
placement of both has some alterations on the features associated with 
placement of Moon in lagna. We have already analysed the impact of 
Mars in /agna. Let us look at the features associated with Moon in lagna: 


Garga: 


In an aphorism sage Garga says that if full Moon is posited in /agna' 
the subject is beautiful, wealthy and soft by temperament. But if it ts 
of ‘ashtami' in ‘Krishna Paksha’ (8* day of dark lunar half) the subject 
is weak. The Moon in Aries, Taurus and Cancer makes the native wealthy 
and beautiful. However in other ascendants, the native becomes lethar- 
gic, sickly, poor and may suffer from cough, breathing trouble, Vaart 
(windy complaints) and may have depression. He may be injured by 
animals and suffer at the hands of king and thieves. 


Kashinath says that: 
The subject is lethargic, pure, involved in worldly pleasures, rich, 
religious and ungrateful. 


Hilla Jataka writes that the subject has to suffer in his 27* year. 
Kalyan Verma 


If posited in Aries, Taurus and Cancer, the subject is intelligent, 
handsome, rich, full of qualities, lucky, and has administrative powers. 


MARS-MOON CONJUNCTION 145 


Else the subject is proud, degraded, deaf, dumb, lame and dark com- 
plexioned. 
He writes in *Saravali’ chapter 31, sloka 26: 


wabatraaaieayat wrad ae wet / 
stuitya fereratedoat «= dlamreasiraey | 


The subject suffers from diseases related to blood, bile, fire (i.e. 
digestion) and is short tempered. 


acifsad wager faetet fauraeredt sata 
waa: | / 


{Jataka Parijat’ chapter \1, sloka 20) 


Since for Aries ascendant, fourth house is owned by Moon, the subject 
may get fame because of his deep knowledge. For Gemini ascendant, 
the following aphorism in the classic is well applicable. It says that if 
the lord of the 2"! is with Mars in the ascendant, the subject will suffer 
from ear trouble. 
Vaidyanath writes in Jatak Parijat, chapter 11, sloka 67: 
fea: garterzat faerest = atereturccrareryaie: | 
aeiertnat ufe asada wofeartet weraiea: 
aes: 11 
Note: The writer has experienced that malefic conjunction of the lord 
of 2"4 may lead to eye trouble. Thus 2" house conjunction is important 


for ear and eyes. 
Prithuyassas writes in Hora Sara, chapter 23, sloka 10: 


wadogyal aedt aera ar erafyxaret ars 

waaay auta qeatsqady yat q aeepyeadta: 1) 
If Mars and Moon are posited together in the Jagna, the 10", the 9", 
the 5" or the 11th, the native will become wealthy and equal to king. 
In other bhavas he is deprived of his relatives and happiness. 

Acharya Meena Raj writes in ‘Vridha Yavan Jataka chapter 42, 

sloka 7. 

atafsaa: eltawe farses Yerastaq’ aadta 

ARTA f 


146 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


wetat état faxavaqafaaern ataareaonay 1) 


The subject is virtuous, poor, doused in worldly pleasures and has 
astonishing intelligence, skilled body and personality. 


Garga: The subject is wicked, poor, talkative and not virtuous. 
(b) Mars—Moon Conjunction in the 2"* House: 


Jataka Parijat: The classic has some important aphorisms related to the 
conjunction. Vaidyanath writes in Jataka Parijat, chapter 11, sloka 52: 


eae ule ~asctet “fafrary aaaaa 

git UT yadaouafewa-—* ada is 
If the lord of the ascendant is posited in the second house, he is rich, 
but the subject is cheated if the lord of lagna is weak and in conjunction 
with a malefic. This holds good for Cancer ascendant only, as for Cancer 
ascendant, the lord of the Jagna is Moon. Thus its association with the 
malefic Mars in the 2°’ house may give these result. 

Another aphorism of the classic says, 


Acharya Meena Raj writes in Vridha Yavan Jataka' chapter 43, 
Sloka 7: 


daferat ufaita: aatat at tract warahieary 
raat wet gaat te wea eifcataafita a1! 
The subject has to suffer defeats, has no love for his wife, eats a lot of 


food, is ungrateful, earns money by serving others, ‘and is wicked. 
Prithuyassas writes in Hora Sara, chapter 23, sloka 10: 


wdegyual ast aera ar earatyxatet ati 

rear sufa qeatsyady yal X acepyeaeta: 11 

lf Mars and Moon are posited together in the lagna, 10", the 9", the 

5* or the 11", the native becomes wealthy and equal to a king. In other 
bhavas, one is deprived of his relatives and happiness. 

Garga says, The subject will be ruled by the public and troubled 


right from the birth. Apart from having a dejected wife, he will look 
old, remain ungrateful and serve others. He is wicked and looks bright. 


(c) Mars—Mboon Conjunction in the 4 House: 


Kalyan Verma writes in "Saravali" chapter 31, sloka 27: 


MARS-MOON CONJUNCTION 147 


uraet fader: qeagqadaaceydiara 
vaet 9wpoetotfdocaed sda ata: | / 


The subject is bellicose, destitute, devoid of happiness, children, money 
and relatives and has a disturbed mind. 
Prithuyassas writes in ‘Hora Sara’ chapter 23, sloka 10": 


wasgyal ced aierfeim ada a | 
wtaa aula _gensaaray, yal g aeepageaetar: 1) 


If Mars and Moon are together in the /agna, the 10", the 9"", the 5", 
or the 11", the native becomes wealthy and equal to a king. In other 
bhavas, one is deprived of his relatives and happiness. 

Vridha Yavan Jataka: page no. 632, 7" 


aaufadtial weread aaa eeffaafofa ais 


The subject is short-lived, unforgiving, fond of others' wives, dear to 
people, forsaken by his own children. 


(d) Mars—Moon Conjunction in the 7": 
Kalyan Verma writes in Saravali chapter 31, sloka 28: 


ae: Weigel wr a Aeradqeaedq / 
eaigaad aqa: eaetat: waster | 


If Mars and Moon are posited in the 7", the native is short-lived, greedy 
for other's money, verbose, liar and jealous. 

Acharya Meena Raj writes in ‘VridhaYavanJataka ’in chapter 48, 
sloka 7: 


wart: eltase: wetat ae wad asuld stray 
fadoucsetladtasyy aaraorasrersta a / 
The subject, who suffers from stomach disorders, lacks reason and 


knowledge. He is aggressive, and remains in fear because of his 
friendship with wicked people. 


Garga: The subject will suffer from stomach disorders, be devoid 
of learning, be forceful and will have illicit relations. 


148 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


(e) Mars—Moon Conjunction in the 8": 
Prithuyassas writes in 'Yora Sara’ chapter 23, sloka 10": 


wdegyat ase gelato at erefyxctst at! 

ata sila qettsyady Yat g weepyraeta: / / 
If Mars and Moon are together in the /agna, the 10', the 9", the 5", 
or the |! *, the native becomes wealthy and equal to a king. In other 
bhavas, one is deprived of his relatives and happiness. 


Acharya Meena Raj writes in 'Vridhayavan Jataka' chapter 49, 
sloka 7: 


aiscara: Rufata gaat at wad faere 

faatay t 

waldes wantagqs walstalat waee ais 
The subject is impecunious, absent minded, diseased, lacks fame and 
respect, lacks brain; is weak, and one who has to beg. 


Garga: Subject will have a bad disposition, be troubled by diseases, 
miserable, unsuccessful and be able to understand others’ feelings. 


(f) Mars—Moon Conjunction in the 12": - 


Acharya Meena Raj writes in 'VridhaYavan Jataka' chapter 53, 
sloka 7: 


arntiat whuta: asitat at vagetsa~ - casa / 
fadtaqta aeeeeaa aratsad eftataafeta a/ / 


The subject is hard hearted, does degraded work, has extremely angry 
temperament, and is fearful and characterless. 


Garga: The subject is hard hearted; will have mean professions; be fond 
of a high degree of purity; be fear stricken, and not virtuous. He is 
inimical to the public, interested in basemen and will be burdened by 
expenses on bad deeds. 


Comments and Conclusion 
We can dichotomise the results into benefic and malefic categories: 


Benefic: The subject, whether men or women, are brave and remain 
composed in difficulties. Despite all odds, such people work with 
confidence and patience without asking for a favour from any one. They 


MARS-MOON CONJUNCTION 149 


are punctual, benevolent and magnanimous. They never get angry. They 
have well-established friends. His or her soft-spoken nature hypnotizes 
everyone. They don't face hurdles at any instance. Thongh they are stable 
in business, their financial situation improves slowly and gradually. They 
spend on good and sacred activities and have no sexual perversion. They 
strongly oppose injustice on any one and are truthful. They can go to 
any corner of the world to do business. 


Malefic: They are criminal, dipsomaniacs, regular visitors to bawdyhonse, 
gamblers, interested in cinema and stage and careless about their future. 
They are extremely sensitive which leads to extreme anger and they can 
go up to any extent to crush their opponents. They are extremely 
subjective and leisure loving. They run away with others' wives, get 
involved in unusual and unnatural copulation — with animals, or 
masturbation etc. They hate to work and are untruthful, wicked, unstable 
in jobs, destitute, indebted, and involved in lottery and races, which lead 


to penury. 


art: vwadadt aca, aca axaadt fear 1 
aett: aeradt ut apa aera ofifaagqy 1! 


He who has sweetness in his tongue, hard labour in his work and 
wealth for donation, leads a successful life. 


CHAPTER 323 


MARS-VENUS CONJUNCTION 


domain of one’s life. It is for this reason that Mars—Venus 
conjunction holds decisive ramifications in one's marital life and 
also on 'Kuja Dosha'. Venus stands for wife in a male horoscope and 
thus its association with Mars must hold important focus for an astrologer 
in balancing of horoscope. 
Let us first look at the various aphorism which are relevant: 


B: Mars and Venus are directly associated with the marital 


(a) Mars—Venus Conjunction in the ‘Lagna' 
Kalyan Verma writes in “Saravali” chapter 31, sloka 55: 


qyeporatidasddeantaa: eetarvat- as 
etléateyerat =a og: «=farotal sracge 1 
The subject has regular intercourse with prostitutes; has evil mentality, 
evil actions; squanders away the money accumulated by his wife and 
has short life span. 
‘ Prithuyassas writes in ‘Hora Sara' chapter 23, sloka 18: 


arya ave: ettaeat gevelwe: | 
margareivestadt = i“wearet wraicat m 1! 
The subject is fickle minded and is under his wife's control. He will 
indulge in sinful acts if Mars and Venus are disposed in one house. 


Should the conjunction be in the 1°, the 10, or the 4", one will be chief . 
of his caste or head of his village. 


Garga: The subject will have phlegmatic imbalances, will undertake 


Mars-VENUS CONJUNCTION 151 


futile assignments, will entertain and will be interested in committing 
sinful acts. 


Acharya Meena Raj writes in 'Vridha Yavan Jataka' chapter 42, 

Sloka 14: 

wia yaal spaoit face ore waa Sortfsataey 

qua date eas wyadt falda: eter 11 
The subject suffers from 'Kapha' troubles; is unsuccessful, a cheat, 
ungrateful; has lot of enemies and lacks politeness. 
(b) Mars—Venus Conjunction in the 2"¢ House— 
Prithuyassas writes in ‘Hora Sara' chapter 23, sloka 18: 


eryyatat ava: <ettaert ge@petae: | 
warguarieiad gsattret weeat a 1! 


The. subject is fickle minded and is under his wife's control. He will 
indulge in sinful acts if Mars and Venus are disposed in one house. 
Should the conjunction be in the 1“, the 10", or the 4*, one will be chief 
of his caste or head of his village. 


Garga: The subject will be sickly, unwise, and ill natured; have few sons, 
and will be blamed in arguments. 


Acharya Meena Raj writes in 'Vridha Yavan Jataka' chapter 43, 
sloka 14: 


eolsaat sara art at fead erarady | 
atarraad gfaneaead fafiteead ucofaafta ais 
The subject suffers a lot because of his bad habits and remains in crises; 


has affection for degraded people. He gets no praise and does not lead 
a moral life. 


(c) Mars—Venus Conjunction in the 4!" House— 

Kalyan Verma writes in “Saravali”’ chapter 31, sloka 56: 
aoqgaiaadat arradtsPifta you: / 
atafianeage areirg: wt afdara: | / 


The native is devoid of brothers, children, and friends; suffers from 
mental agonies, and remains unhappy. 
Prithuyassas writes in 'Hora Sara' chapter 23, sloka 18: 


152 AN INSIGHT INIO KUJA DOSHA 


Bearyyatat ava: ~ettaernt gewetee: | 
wmagariciat gait waa aris 


The subject is fickle minded and is under his wife's control. He will 
indulge in sinful acts if Mars and Venus are disposed in one house. 
Should the conjunction be in the 1“, the 10", and the 4", one will be 
chief of his caste or head of his village. 

Acharya Meena Raj writes in 'Vridha Yavan Jataka' chapter 45, 
sloka 14: 


statcaa  eereype: quae at yaa 
fapataat aI 
akaéla fara cad wetaerganioady | // 

i. e. the subject's efforts go in vain; he is characterless, isolated from 


his near and dears and has evil mentality. He is inexperienced and 
learned; faces trouble because of his angry temperament. 


(d) Mars—Venus Conjunction in the 7'* House— 
Kalyan Verma writes in “Saravali’ chapter 31, sloka 58: 


wettatay: waa: eftéal: uraatnerqg: wey / 
slatuaatdacétarart 9 sdcgen 


The subject will wander after women, will have a bad history, will 
experience abundant grief due to his relations with women and will 
possess mean conduct. 

Prithuyassas writes in ‘Hora Sara‘ chapter .23, sloka 18: 


Baya uve: etal geval: 1 
wagarieta psaiet weidtat mil 


The subject is fickle minded and is under his wife's control. He will 
indulge in sinful acts if Mars and Venus are disposed in one house. 
Should the conjunction be in the 1“, the 10", and the 4", one will be 
chief of his caste or head of his village. 


Garga: The subject will be rejected by people; will be troubled by blood 
oozing body; be insulted by others and be unjustly disposed. 

Acharya Meena Raj writes in 'Vridha Yavan Jataka' chapter 48, 
sloka 14: 


gqoisaayara salt’ at wad waaay 


Mars-VENUS CONJUNCTION 153 
fadiasier awaatdes weldrega aeeretetet/ / 
The subject does not get public approval and faces opposition from the 


public. He cannot accumulate money, is injury prone, defeated by his 
enemies, and lacks morals. 


(ec) Mars—Venus Conjunction in the 8" House— 


Prithuyassas writes in ‘Hora Sara' chapter 23, sloka 18: 


aay ara: ettaeat geese: | 
wagacieiae pefiet waraetat ati 


The subject is fickle minded and is under his wife's control. He will 
indulge in sinful acts if Mars and Venus are disposed in one house. 
Should the conjunction be in the!l*, the 10", and the 4*, one will be chief 
of his caste or head of his village. 


Garga: Will be desirous of doing sinful acts; be untmthful; have many 
enemies; be defeated and be a miser. 

Acharya Meena Raj writes in 'Vridha Yavan Jataka' chapter 45, 
sloka 14: 


. ysicaal yPryatseavet sit Vad Basiaqeaiy 
udtaete a qufactr warivéta asaratay/ / 
The subject has artificiality in his behaviour. He does not lead a 
moral life and lacks mercy, fame, skills and qualities. He is stubbornly 
rigid. 
(f) Mars—Venus Conjunction in the 12™ House- 


Prithuyassas writes in ‘Hora Sara' chapter 23, sloka 18: 


asaya ara: ettaernt gepefer: | 
arguireietat gaiet weetat ar it 


The subject is fickle minded and is under his wife's control. He will 
indulge in sinful acts if Mars and Venus are disposed in one house. 
Should the conjunction be in the }§, the 10% and the 4" one will be 
chief of his caste or head of his village. 


Garga: The native will not have much wealth. He will be distressed due 
to sons, uncharitable, always sickly, very mean, and ungrateful. 

Acharya Meena Raj writes in 'Vridha Yavan Jataka' chapter 53, 
sloka 14: 


154 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


eautiat sara: ayer at wad srereneaqaag / 

qgaldd acfadtaqht aaqe strat easy 1! 
The subject is rich; troubled by his son; lacks charitable tendency; always 
in pains; worthless and ungrateful. 


Comments and Conclusion 


The planetary kingdom has two marital couples: Sun—Moon & Mars— 
Venus, latter being the couple of modem times. The Mars -Venus 
conjunction in the kingdom can be subdivided into two sub stages. 


(a) When the conjunction precedes Sun. 
(b) When it is behind Sun. 


In the former, the bright rays from Venus fall on Mars. The ‘Zambravarna’ 
of Mars gets dull and becomes pleasing ‘Dhawal Tambravarna'. In the 
latter, the rays of Mars fall on Venus and thus the Venus appears pink— 
giving a pleasing appearance. 

Consequently, these sub-stages have differential ramifications on 
individual life. 


(a) Conjunction Precedes Sun 


In this case, the wife of the native is beautiful. She is loaded with 
qualities and is of ‘Jambrashamal’ (wheatish fair) complexion, tall, 
charming, having large eyes and very dark hair and is very attractive. 
She is rigid, fearless, having beautician's knowledge. Though she plays 
with the emotions of her husband, she loves him. She knows the art of 
making love but has less passion or desire. 

She is garrulous, pleasure or comfort seeking and jovial. While she 
keeps her husband in her control, she is adept at household work and 
also on worldly affairs. The husband, who also plays with her emotions, 
is of independent mentality. 

The conjunction is futile for Aries, Taurus, Libra, Scorpio, Capri- 
com, Aquarius and Pisces ascendants and gives negative results and bad 
luck. The native of Gemini and Aquartus however may remain childless. 
For other ascendants, the results are normal. In all, this conjunction is 
inauspicious ('Aasubha') in aspects other than 'Pranaya' (love). 


Inauspicions results: The subject may not get promotion in job and may 
remain stagnant. He is financially broken. In some Moon signs, child- 
lessness may be a possibility. In some, it may be an uncertainty. The 
worthy successor of the house may expire. The subject is morally corrupt. 


MARS-VENUS CONJUNCTION 155 


He does not get name and fame in his individual business. While his 
income is less and sources of income difficult, his expenses go np. 


(b) Conjunction is behind Sun 


In this case, the wife of the subject is good thongh ordinary in looks, 
short in height, well-built, disfigured appearance with bright, large and 
jewel like eyes and dense black hair. The face is rounded having high 
nose; is ‘Janvangi’ and extremely noxious. She is adept at honse 
management and an extremely good host though she does not care about 
her husband's position and is shameless at many times. However, she 
does not lack love for her husband and is well aware of worldly affairs. 
In crisis, she may become corrupt. 

She may remain childless or the children may be weak. She is 
spendthrift and hence money does not accumulate. Though her husband 
may be involved with other women she will not complain about it. 

This conjunction is extremely painful for Aries, Taurus, Libra, and 
Scorpio ascendants. Either, the subject remains stagnant (i.e. devoid of 
promotion), responsible / or the contributing person in the family expires. 


Wa Fal: Baers, Wer: IVS: 1 
a: alay: eareq, we: aca oftaqy 1 
That person is praised who does well for others like those trees, 
which give fruit to others. 


CHAPTER 34 


MARS - MERCURY 
CONJUNCTION 


Let us look at different classics on the subject: 
(a) Mars—Mercury Conjunction in the ‘Lagna' - 


Kalyan Verma writes in "Saravali" chapter 31, sloka 47: 
feeaisPaead serat earatafe? want ga: / 
atta geratftase aeuftrert = adcyen:) | 5 


The subject is violent, skilled at fire-related works, does hard work in j 
metallurgy. He may be an ambassador or a secret officer, and is 
benevolent. 

Prithuyassas writes in 'Hora Sara‘ chapter 23, sloka 16: 
Zrqinat ara gic etrrapisevage: 
atra: wiesrsrset Beteaelrt FA Ae! | 

The native has vacillating and destructive mind. He is satisfied with little. 


He will be dirty and like to eat others' food. Should these two be in 
an angle, the native will be wealthy and happy. 


Jataka Parijata: The native is expert in fire and mineral works, becomes 
an ambassador and protects others’ things. 


Garga: The subject will have good speech and will be rich, beautiful, 
passionate, modest and fond of having relations with other women. 

Acharya Meena Raj writes in 'Vridha Yavan Jataka' chapter 42, 
sloka 12: 


MARS-MERCURY CONJUNCTION 157 


atetcaa: walagatfaaonmila ael nade‘ a 1 
faareetta frsargereter varaBra qeraat / / 


The subject may be deceptive and fraudulent, bellicose, always living 
away from home and is merciless. 


(b) Mars—Mercury Conjunction in the 2"! House - 


Acharya Meena Raj writes in 'Vridha Yavan Jataka' chapter 43, sloka 
12: 


atat eter: eabryagaat at wad wafacary 1 
atenttad cafibrettarcry aotttetet SATE AA | | 


The subject is deprived of wife and money, is troubled by many diseases 
and lacks quality. He is destructive for his relatives. 


Garga: The subject will be very rich, free from vices and dear to the 
king. 


(c) Mars—Mercury Conjunction in the 4 House - 
Kalyan Verma writes in “Saravali” chapter 31, sloka 48: 


awdatea: ateat fatea exsttecrsttay atesraret: 1 
feg@ gqespyadt: caactey forreat ara: 11 
The subject is devoid of relatives but has a lot of friends. Though he 
has a lot of money, food, sources of enjoyment and vehicle, he is cursed 
by his own people. 
Acharya Meena Raj writes in 'Vridha Yavan Jataka' chapter 45, 
sloka 12: 


siateaa: aaga: geet at vad aaadeeqs 
et altedueraanfieya gate vtafaatofary 11 


If Mars and Mercury are posited in the fourth house, the subject suffers 
from injuries. Besides, the native is addicted to several bad habits, 
including drinking, making love with different women and theft etc. 
Fond of gambling he has no love for any one. 


Garga: He will have wounded physique and will steal women (have 
relations with various women). He will be a drunkard, a gambler, and 
attached to none. 


158 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


(d) Mars—Mercury Conjunction in the 7" House - 


Jataka Parijat: The native loses his first wife, changes place, and is 
argumentative by nature. 
Kalyan Verma writes in “Saravali” chapter 31, sloka 49: 


aata a eared weet atarfeeya: 1 
macgaude yfaaepel Ad Veratate: 11 


The subject is a wanderer, a labourer, troubled by wicked people, is 
beautiful / handsome, conflict stimulator, and kills his first wife. 
Prithuyassas writes in ‘Hora Sara' chapter 23, sloka 16: 


Bigivet aval gee ettararpisevageic: | 

afaa: weasel Seteailiat Ba aed 11 
The native has vacillating and destructive mind. He is satisfied with little. 
He will be dirty and like to eat others' food. Should these two be in 
an angle, the native will be wealthy and happy. 


Acharya Meena Raj writes in 'Vridha Yavan Jataka' chapter 45, 
sloka 12: 


The subject is wicked by heart, cunning, having evil plans, personality 
less, insulted by sons and always restless. 


Garga: He will be of crooked disposition, a cheat; not a splendor and 
have defective limb. 


(ce) Mars—Mercury Conjunction in the 8 House - 
Prithuyassas writes in 'Hora Sara' chapter 23, sloka 16: 
Barges area gac ettrrasisevagerc: / 
atra: wieierget Creat Bw cet | / 
The native has vacillating and destructive mind. He is satisfied with little. ° 
He will be dirty and like to eat others' food. Should these two be in 
an angle, the native will be wealthy and happy. 


Acharya Meena Raj writes in 'Vridha Yavan Jataka' (Page 
730, 12") 


MARS-MERCURY CONJUNCTION 159 


wena asPryatseacaeen at TYSMVSsTAy” | 
sawelraqe ° aeatadta eastaet yay erasiray/ / 


The subject, who suffers from Galgand disease (glands in the neck), 
becomes old in his youth. He is deprived of wife, ungrateful, and very 
cruel. 


Garga: The native will have low mentality and will suffer from a serious 
disease. He is fraudulent and a miser. 


(f) Mars—Mercury Conjunction in the 12 House - 

Prithuyassas writes in 'Hora Sara' chapter 23, sloka 16: 
Bsrqruadiar ge wlarapisewag: 1 
afaa: werergett - &eeanfrat yaad 1 


The native has vacillating and destructive mind. He is satisfied with little. 
He will be dirty and like to eat others' food. Should these two be in 
an angle, the native will be wealthy and happy. 

Acharya Meéna Raj writes in 'Vridha Yavan Jataka' (12", 807) 


waiatayara:' wnt ae wa fasaqerm 
aonfieta aeteeret afa wt waaenstag! / 


The subject gets involved in unlawful activities. He is shameless, a liar, 
impure, suffers from diseases and leads a stagnant (i.e. without success) 
life. 


Garga: He will be ugly to look at, shameless, troubled by many diseases, 
insensible and be devoid of valour and vitality. 


Comments and Conclusion: 


If the conjunction precedes the Sun, the subject is extremely thoughtful, 
cool, helpful, intelligent, swift, soft spoken, excellent debater and 
truthful. He may cure others. However, this situation is also associated 
with several unfavourable outcomes. The subject, a person of angry 
temperament, has no faith in others. He is hard hearted, liar, illusionary, 
shifts blames on others, baseless, proud, making many mistakes in 
writing, gives false evidence, may face imprisonment, suffer from lisp 
(Totla) and one who does not complete his assignments. 

If the conjunction follows the Sun, the subject has capability to solve 
typical problems with ease. He is benevolent and magnanimous, a 
prolific writer and has perfect presentation. He is of independent attitude, 


160 AN INSIGHT INIO KUJA DOSHA 


unpleasant but truthful, does not fight against injustice, is intelligent 
though does not get public sympathy. 

The negative qualities that the native may possess are equally grave. 
The subject, who may be a glib liar, is in the habit of interfering in others! 
affairs, preparing fraudulent papers and promissory notes, and playing 
tricks in arguments. He is of angry temperament, irritable, and always 
ready to force his decision or views on others. He becomes false evidence 
or an informer. He is a cheat in using others' papers for his own use. 
He may suffer from diseases like Hernia and Kidney troubles. 

Since Mercury is close to Sun, the other yogas do not show their 
effects. 


SHCIEU-YRIMNY, AAA AAaA-ZA |! 
wer: yaa, wiunre-visayq // 


The two quotations of Vyas ji, that the benevolence is virtue and 
teasing others is sin, are found in Hindu mythologies. 


CHAPTER — 3.5 


MARS-SUN CONJUNCTION 


et us look at the different aphorisms, in the different classics, on 
his malefic combination: 


(a) Mars—Sun Conjunction in the ‘Zagna’- 


Kalyan Verma writes in "SaravalF chapter 31, sloka 6: 
da ataattiaset travefatered ee: | 
left farang: ated ed: wot: eas! 


The subject is of bilious nature, brave in wars, short-tempered, wounded, 
cruel, wicked and hard hearted. 


Hora Sara: The combination of the Sun and Mars in the 10*, the 11", 
the Jagna or the 8* causes one's birth in a royal family and bestows upon 
him great strength, while the conjunction in other houses gives wealth. 

Acharya Meena Raj writes in 'Vridha Yavan Jataka' chapter 42, 
sloka 2: 


alata yaat feorr: wad aeatha: Wet AER} 
aibiyay yaw gae urge ari aeass 
The subject is involved in a number of sinful acts; gets defeated at the 


hands of his enemies; commits sins; is of dry nature and has cruel 
mentality. 


Garga: The subject will be unhappy because of his father. He is of 
wicked mentality. He will wander from place to place and will be of mean 
mentality. 


162 AN INSIGHT INIO KUJA DOSHA 


(b) Mars—Sun Conjunction in the 2"? House - 


Hora Sara: The combination of the Sun and Mars in the 10", the 
11", the lagna or the 8" causes one's birth in a royal family and bestows 
upon him great strength, while the conjunction in other houses gives 
wealth. 


Acharya Meena Raj writes in 'Vridha Yavan Jataka' chapter 43, 
Sloka 2: 

gofveacadleree: ustat at ae wad faads 

ewtaasst gue faétt wage wraafad as) 

The subject is destitute, shameless and merciless; remains restless and 
is sinful. 


Garga: The subject will suffer from penury and is shameless, unkind 
and sinful. 


(c) Mars—Sun Conjunction in the 4‘ House - 

Kalyan Verma writes in "Saravali" chapter 31, sloka 7: 
weqaataatadta: auncagqeaateta: agfra: / 
puigdiedaqe stafa Yul Adal . Bea: | / 


The subject is deprived of wealth, relatives and all types of pleasures. 
He is unhappy and revolts against every one. 


Hora Sara: The combination of the Sun and Mars in the 10", the 11th, 
the /agna or the 8" causes one's birth in a royal family and bestows upon 
him great strength, while the conjunction in other houses gives wealth. 

Acharya Meena Raj writes in 'Vridha Yavan Jataka' chapter 45: 


slarisaaedlaree: GRA ae [hud ataarrdeegy | 
ugtaaaried faqva sarfta “otvanteaa’ a // 
The subject suffers from pain due to injury; he suffers from congenital 


and wind related diseases. His good deeds never see the light of the day; 
he works hard and is short tempered. 


Garga: The subject will suffer from blood and wind related diseases. 
He is unlucky, subjected to troubles and short tempered. 


(d) Mars-——Sun Conjunction in the 7™ House - 


Kalyan Verma writes in "Saravali" chapter 31, sloka 8: 


MARS-SUN CONJUNCTION 163 


eiiface g: a Rasa: eftéat: ufesra wer ura: / 
wtashtratyacn fatercact wat stafa / / 


The subject has to suffer, as he has to keep away from of his wife. He 
will face defeats because of his wife and has to do a lot of travelling 
in foreign countries. 


Hora Sara: The combination of the Sun and Mars in the 10", the 11", 
the lagna or the 8" causes one's birth in a royal family and bestows 
upon him great strength, while the conjunction in other houses gives 
wealth. : 

Acharya Meena Raj writes in 'Vridha Yavan Jataka' chapter 48, 
sloka 2: 


ortiaedianree: = usital AL Wy 
rarqeaay | 

aia @ta aattfsaa yefsarat fired 
ap era / / 


The subject is involved in arguments, lacks sacrificing temperament, 
suffers from injury and is detached from Brahmins and teachers. 


Garga: The subject is cruel, interested in others' wife, lacks magnanim- 
ity; feels a lot of hunger but he is attached to preceptors and Brahmins. 


(e) Mars—Sun Conjunction in the 8 House - 


The subject suffers from blood-related diseases and loss of blood as a 
result of accident etc. He is naughty, sinful, and absent-minded and does 
not earn fame. 


Hora Sara: The combination of the Sun and Mars in the 10", the 11", 
the /agna or the 8* causes one's birth in a royal family and bestows upon 
him great strength, while the conjunction in other houses gives wealth. 


Garga: The native will suffer from blood-related diseases. With vacil- 
lating mind, he is prone to commit sinful acts. He is devoid of friends 
and lacks mental vigour and wealth. 


(f) Mars—Sun Conjunction in the 12" House - 


Hora Sara: The combination of the Sun and Mars in the 10°, the 11°, 
the Jagna or the 8* causes one's birth in a royal family and bestows 
upon him great strength, while the conjunction in other houses gives 
wealth. 


164 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


Acharya Meena Raj writes in 'Vridha Yavan Jataka' 2"; Page 705 
eraifmacdtaraxr: atta at vad abra weer / 
qubiisja wguraraa gewasia sorahia a / / 

The subject is unhappy, of weak body, defeated by enemies, involved 
in many sinful acts and lacks qualities. 


Garga: The native will always be in distress, troubled by others, wicked 
and devoid of good qualities. He will have an emaciated body. 


Comments and Conclusions 


The subjects are of strong built, full of blood, and have strength to 
withstand all the difficulties. They are excessively passionate, benevo- 
lent, truthful, Satwik, opposed to injustice, rigid, unpleasant, innocuous, 
compromising, magnanimous for servants. They have conflicts with 
elders and cut his coat according to their pocket. They are disciplined 
and have limited friends' circle. They are loved by their family members 
and get their work done through persuasion and love. This apart, they 
aspire for higher posts while they are independent by nature and have 
to do service. Such persons want to reach the summit of his work and 
do not like small assignments, jobs, and business. These people may 
work in police, excise, custom, forest department and” medical profes- 
sions. They are also fond of mechanical jobs. 

The subjects face a lot of hurdles and are ghb har, vain, highly 
ambitious, and fond of glutting over other's debt. They are egocentric 
and lechers, who survive on hotel's food and thus remain ill. They may 
be addicted to liquor, remain untidy and have satyriasis. They are short 
tempered and may go to any extent in anger. They are shameless and 
pick up fight with others. As the native is faultfinding and mean, he tries 
to find ways and means to harm others. They may run away with others' 
wives, create conflicts in others' family and may take commissions to 
acquire property or for lechery. 

The subjects with this conjunction may suffer from many diseases 
like asthma, gout, tuberculosis and heat related diseases. This conjunc- 
tion, if posited in the 4", the 6" or the 8", for Aries, Leo and Sagittarius, 
causes the subject to suffer from T. B., diabetes, heat storke etc. For 
Taurus, Virgo and Capricorn the subject may suffer from stomach 
diseases. For Gemini, Aquarius and Libra, the subject suffers fiom 
gastric disease. For Cancer, Scorpio and Pisces, the subject may suffer 
from asthma, hydrocoel, and appendicitis etc. In nutshell, the results are 


MARS-SUN CONJUNCTION 165 


benefic for the male moon signs and malefic for the female moon signs. 

For lagna, 3", 5", 7, 9" and 10* the subject is generally childless 
or issues may be stillborn, or short lived, for male moon signs. For female 
moon signs, the subject has many issues, if the moon sign happens to 
be Cancer, Scorpio and Pisces. However under this combination, one 
of the danghters of the native brings bad name to him, if the conjunction 
is posited in lagna, 3", 5", 7° or 9" The first child of the subject may 
expire and he may live in penury. While his own family members may 
deceive the native, he is ignorant about his own good. Besides, he is 
not prepared to listen to others and is proud of his intelligence. 

The subject is troublesome to his father since birth, if the conjunction 
is in the 2", the 4" or the 8" honse. He may suffer injury in accidents. 
The father of the subject dies in his infancy and his accumulated money 
is wasted. The subject's family is poor and the birth of the subject 
augments this condition. It should be seen that for other positions in male 
moon signs, the subject's father has continnous increment in fate from 
financial angle though he may have to remarry. 

For Aries, Led and Sagittarius, in 5", 10 and 11" house, the subject 
is an officer who earns fame, name and respect. He may be in police, 
excise or medical line. In the 10", subject suffers from son-related pains. 


ate ae do te te oh 


arat wea gé atha,sraf a fraarfeat 1 
ava aa weal, qaiswwd aw yey 1) 


He, whose home is deprived of his mother and sweet speaking 
wife, Should leave the home and go to the forest, as both the home 
and forest are equal to him. 


CHAPTER 3.6 


MARS-JUPITER 
CONJUNCTION 


} et us look at the different aphorisms in important classics, which 
ave been written on the matter. 


(a) Mars—Jupiter Conjunction in ‘Lagna'- - 


Kalyan Verma writes in “Saravali*chapter 31, sloka 51: 


aett yorvenit erfatt vaerctettd: 1 
qgreaatdase 8 = tareaterébracgea: | / 


i.e. the subject may be an officer, chief; is qualified and has qualities; 
eams fame in theology and remains enthusiastic. 


Jataka Parijat: The native acquires chief's post; is always enthusiastic 
and interested in theology. 
Prithuyassas writes in 'Hora Sara’: (Page 276; 7") 


eaigeaa wir daffy: yaar factaea / 
Ryrak: way erat werfsaatserftaed | / 


if Mars and Jupiter were in one house, the native would be long lived, 
polite and will have sons. However, if the conjunction is in the evil 
houses (i.e. 6, 8, 12), the subject may be addicted to vices and will not 
have much wealth. 


MARS-JUPITER CONJUNCTION 167 


Acharya Meena Raj writes in 'Vridha Yavan Jataka' chapter 42, 
sloka 13: 
atatsaat eagetdact at ved wfoar easirays 
HUA WAS Haat Beattad frraea as! 
i. e. the subject is hard hearted; has few sons; is fearful; commits sinful 
acts and is brave. 


Garga: Will be hard hearted, will have few sons, will entertain others, 
be interested in doing sinful acts. 


(b) Mars—Jupiter Conjunction in the 2"’ House - 
Prithuyassas writes in ‘Hora Sara': (Page 276; 7") 


earyeuta aca -dtafy: yYrarea fuettaew 
Ryze: wey ~earuell wenfsaatseafrred/ / 
If Mars and Jupiter were in one house, the native would be long lived, 
polite and will have sons. However, if the conjunction is in the evil 
houses (i.e. 6, 8, 12), the subject may be addicted to vices and will not 
have much wealth. 
Acharya Meena Raj writes in 'Vridha Yavan Jataka' chapter 43, 
sloka 13: 


otaftsaat saaat acreat at vad vores utay! 
fadedial  Baeeastd 4=vaeuema «area fafeea 
ail 


i. e. the subject is sickly and lacks reason. He is of evil mentality and 
has few sons. He is condemned and criticised by his own men. 


Garga: Be sickly, unwise, bad natured, have few sons and will be blamed 

in arguments. 

(c) Mars—Jupiter Conjunction in the 4‘ House - 

Kalyan Verma writes in “Saravali" chapter 31, sloka 52: 
weeypomed: ferfia: wwe siadiege / 
maaryefaanae rad! eayesttd: | / 

The subject enjoys the company of friends and relatives. He is of steady 


temperament, lecher, is in the service of the king and is devoted to his 
teachers. 


168 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


Jatak Parijat: The subject is engaged in royal service. 
Prithnyassas writes in 'dora Sara': (Page 276; T") 


Bpayeaa «aca «=ltatfy: §«=6yxarafacttaew | 
Rywak: sag <creeit weonrfaatserfiaea | / 


If Mars and Jupiter were in one house, the native would be long lived, 
polite and will have sons. However, if the conjunction is in the evil 
houses (i.e. 6, 8, 12), the subject may be addicted to vices and will not 
have much wealth. 

Acharya Meena Raj writes in 'Vridha Yavan Jataka' chapter 43, 
sloka 13: 


stata eayqe: gqaea: artla aet fafa 

wyalay t 

SetHUHAHTEUT «| Cateelsad —GeaEraywad | 
i. e. the subject is merciless, interested in wicked acts, forsaken by 


relatives and has degraded thoughts and mentality. He has few sons and 
has to face defeats. 


Garga: Be successful, poor, and akin to cupid, interested in sins, 
forsaken by relatives and will have penchant for arts. 


(d) Mars—Jupiter Conjunction in the 7 House - 

Jatak Parijat: The subject earns fame & acquires wealth. 

Kalyan Verma writes in “Saravali" chapter 31, sloka 53: 
fPiRgtausraa feaerefta: yarsera:. et: / 
gucttaaygaet «wradta: yareerata 1 / 


i.e. the subject wanders in jungles, forts, water, mountains; has a number 
of good relatives, is brave and is devoid of wife. 
Prithuyassas writes in ‘Hora Sara': (Page 276; 7") 


Brgeaa waa “ataly: yratr facttaer / 
Rywak: oaiy eact watlaatserfaea | / 


If Mars and Jupiter were in one house, the native would be long lived, 
polite and will have sons. However, if the conjunction is in the evil 
houses (i.e. 6, 8, 12), the subject may be addicted to vices and will not 
have much wealth. 


MARSJUPITER CONJUNCTION 10 


Acharya Meena Raj writes in 'Vridha Yavan Jataka' page 730, 
sloka 13": 


ahrqa: wat at wad fragenoys 
wets wiEebtfatatecadaranerrausy tl 
The subject is deeply involved with wicked people; does hard work for 


futile works; has distorted organs because of sinful acts; works in 
goverment jobs where he faces a lot of enemies. 


Garga: The subject will mix with masses, wander aimlessly and will 
have injured body on account of his sons. 


(e) Mars—Jupiter Conjunction in the 8' House - 
Prithuyassas writes in ‘Hora Sara’: (Page 276; 7") 


eaigenia waar daffy: yrarr factaed / 
Ryxwak: sey cast werfsaatserfixea 11 


If Mars and Jupiter were in one house, the native would be long lived, 
polite and will have sons. However, if the conjunction is in the evil 
houses (i.e. 6, 8, 12), the subject may be addicted to vices and will not 
have much wealth. 

Acharya Meena Raj writes in 'Vridha Yavan Jataka' chapter 49, 
sloka 13: 


ottatsaat ahryaiscaeest at wad Beret: 

waaay | 

fadtafad weerqra walaareta Bu wvreasragq ss 
i. e. the subject eams money through wicked means; lacks money earned 


through sacred means; has several enemies; has troubled body and is a 
miser. 


Garga: Will have illegal money; be destitute, base; have many enemies; 
lose money because of his merciful nature and be defeated. 


(f) Mars—Jupiter Conjunction in the 12 House - 


Prithuyassas writes in ‘Hora Sara': (Page 276; 7") 


gigeua aaa data: yaaa facltaea / 
Rye: wety wat tenfsaatseafiaed | / 


If Mars and Jupiter were in one house, the native would be long lived, 


170 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA. 


polite and will have sons. However, if the conjunction is in the evil 
houses (i.e. 6, 8, 12), the subject may be addicted to vices and will not 
have much wealth. 

Acharya Meena Raj writes in 'Vridha Yavan Jataka': Pg 807, 13" 


eaat xyacu: wottat at wyadstafaaotiaas 

watfead Gg wait wed marge acerattfsa ais 
i.e. the subject is very poor, fame less, overworked troubled by enemies, 
expenses and relatives; and remains unhappy. 


Garga: Be notorious; be sexually distressed; be miserable; be bumed 
by expenses; be at the disposal of others and suffer due to relatives. 


Comments and Conclusion 
Good Results 


The subject witnesses a dramatic change in his life span. He gets an 
authority, which continues with him, life long. He has hold in his office. 
His efforts are well organised and thus succeed. He is never short of 
money to fulfil his requirements. He has a bit of property. The children 
of the subject face troubles. The subject has many friends. He is cool 
by nature, problem solving and soft-spoken, though his' relations with 
brother may not be smooth. He is an atheist and his job or business goes 
with ease. 


Bad Results 


The fellow has authority but it does not stay. The subject may lose his 
job and has to sit at home. The accumulated money may get wasted. 
He suffers from typical (i.e. unusual) diseases. The subject hates hard 
work and tries to avoid taking any responsibility or work. This combi- 
nation may give extremely bad results in relation to progeny of the 
subject. 


¢ Either he remains childless. 

* or the issue gets aborted, as a result of some accident. 

* or the child may die at the time of birth or some years later. 

* or he has daughters only. 

* or the sons may die in young age. 

The conjunction is extremely destructive from the point of view of 
progeny. 
a %, 


io % Me oh 
yo Oe Oe To ge go 


qveueea osrerffr a2 sirmed areratt: = 
a va fear af aeftetarataq 1! 


If one is privy to his friend's secrets, he must never divulge it to 


anyone. This will only increase the enmity and both will be harmed. 


CHAPTER 3.7 


MARS-NODES CONJUNCTION 


ince classics have given scattered tit bits on the topic we are giving 
an extract of what is written, in addition to what we have observed. 


Mars-Rahu Conjunction 


. 


(a) Mars—Rahu Conjunction in the lagna - 


The subjects are rigid, obstinate and wicked. They cannot even think 
of being dependent on any one. Their study remains incomplete. They 
are extremely egoistic. If any one hurts their ego, they are prepared to 
go to any extent to settle their score. They are self-centered. They are 
mediocre and may have multiple marriages. If first wife survives, she 
is belligerent and children may face death. She may suffer an accident 
in which her fetus may get destroyed. 


(b) Mars—Rahu Conjunction in the 2"? House - 


The conjunction gives good results for Cancer and Leo ascendants and 
for others the results are extremely distressing. The elder male members 
of the family expire during his infancy. The subject is wicked and 
misguiding. He may cheat others. Though he would have accumulated 
enough money, he makes further accumulation through wicked means. 

He may have a business of credit creation in which he is highly 
successful and lucky. He is soft spoken. The money starts coming at the 
age of 26. He may have to marry more than once (‘Dwibharya yoga’), 
if not, financial crisis troubles him through out hfe. He may eam money 
through deceit i. e. he may amass money which morally belongs to 
others. 


172 MARS: MARITAL MALADIES AND REMEDIES 


(c) Mars—Rahu Conjunction in the 4° Honse - 


The subject does not get Sukh (happiness) of parents. This conjunction 
is not good and thus the subject remains worried lifelong. He may marry 
twice. This conjunction is extremely disastrous from the point of view 
of occupation. The subject keeps on changing business and remains 
much unstable. Money does not stay with him and thus he faces fimancial 
crisis. Finally he has to switch from business to service where he may 
be underpaid or may face demotion. He is thus devoid of wealth and 
property and has poor life style. By nature he is short tempered though 
his wife is good-natured. The subject is however lucky from the point 
of view of children. The issues are well educated though they give no 
enjoyment or care to their parents. They are long lived though the entire 
life is unhappy. 


(d) Mars—Rahu Conjunction in the 7" House - 


The subject has two wives and it is the second wife who gives more 
pleasure. The rise in career / business starts only after the Dg marriage. 
He has sharp intellect and is research oriented mind. The wives are 
extremely good-natured. 


(e) Mars—Rahu Conjunction in the 8* Honse —~ 


The subject may be extremely short lived and the cause of the death may 
be accident. He gets no help from any relative or friend though his father- 
in-law may help him. 


(f) Mars—Rahu Conjunction in the 12 House - 


The subject often has two marriages. He accidentally consumes poison, 
either himself or through someone else, but always has narrow escape. 
The subject of this conjunction is deeply involved in theology and God 
is his devotion. But he does not get materialistic pleasure. He has to live 
out for most of his life. 


Mars-Ketu Conjunction 


This is one of the worst combinations for causing adversities of all kinds. 
This conjunction produces murderers, smugglers, kidnappers, rapists and 
terrorists etc, if it takes place in the concerning houses viz. 1%, 3", 5", 
8" or 12*. However Ketu, if conjoined with Mars, multiplies the Kuja 
Dosha heavily and there is no escape from widowhood or separation, 
if the conjunction has been formed in the 7", 8* or the 4" house. The 


MARS-NODES CONJUNCTION 173 


adversity gets further enhanced, if Mars, under such circumstances, owns 
trikas. 


It has been observed that opposition of Saturn and Rahu with Mars 


and Ketu is most damaging, destructive and disastrous. Invariably the 
combination of Mars and Ketu produces very evil results particularly 
during their Dasa- Bhukti. 


(a) 


(b) 


(c) 


(d) 


(e) 


© 


Mars-Ketu conjunction in the Lagna: 

This gives rise to uncontrollable hypertension, high headedness, 
impulsive and hasty actions, large ego, stubbornness and revengeful 
nature. 

Mars-Ketu conjunction in the 2"’ Honse: 

Family quarrels takegplace, in addition to loss of money, and 
problems regarding children, health and disturbance in the academic 
sphere trouble the native. 

Mars-Ketu conjunction in the 4'" House: 

Mars and Ketu mostly break the relationship due to separation. 
Heart trouble is also most likely to be there. Property matters will 
be questionable and behaviour with mother will be harsh. The 4* 
house indicates sweet home of the native but if Mars and Ketu are 
there the sweetness of the home changes into bitterness and it 
becomes impossible to live together under the same roof. 
Mars-Ketu conjunction in the 7 House: 

Mars-Ketu conjunction in the 7" house indicates widowhood or 
loss of wife as the case may be. Jt has also been observed that 
during adverse dasa- bhukti of Mars, the native himself dies due 


‘to any accident. Serious conflict, difference of opinion and fight 


take place between husband and wife, particularly during their dasa 
bhukti and one may commit suicide or may even kill the other one, 
provided 5* house is also afflicted. 

Mars-Ketu conjunction in the 8'" House: 

Untimely violent death of the native takes place or widowhood is 
caused during the period or sub period of the navamsa lord 
occupied by Mars or Ketu. Apart from imprisonment and 
prosecution, various blood related and inflammatory diseases like 
piles, fistula, blood cancer, ulcerative colitis are also likely to place. 
Mars-Ketu conjunction in the 12'* House: 

The combination of Mars and Ketu in the 12* house results into 
extramarital relationship, separation, accidents, unquenchable 


174 


MARS: MARITAL MALADIES AND REMEDIES 


passion and losses due to theft, deceit or misplaced confidence or 
dacoity. Eye trouble, muscular pain and defective limb due to 
injury, cut, or boil are also likely. 

Mars Ketu conjunction is decidedly worse than Mars-Saturn or 
Mars-Rahu conjunction with regard to marital bliss. 


SECTION 4 
RESEARCH FINDINGS 
ON 
PRACTICAL CASE 
STUDIES 


wierd wt aq wiisay | 
arg a ale at aterea pdla waraa 11 
One must not do any act, which destroys his fame or wealth and 


is detrimental to others. 


CHAPTER 4.1 


KUJA DOSHA DUE TO MARS 
IN ASCENDANT 


is not considered mangli. There are many shlokas in which the 

Jacement of Mars in 2™ honse is said to canse Kuja dosha and not 
in the ascendant. Dr. B. V. Raman has also specified so. However, during 
our research oriented study of 30 years it has been observed that it will 
be a blunder if we do not grant Kuja dosha to Mars in the ascendant. 
Mars in the ascendant is as adverse as Mars in 7* or 8" as far as marital 
bliss is concerned. If Mars occupies the ascendant it lends it unfavourable 
aspect over 4", 7" and 8" honse, which are related with the marriage, 
marital harmony, and married life etc. We humbly opine that Mars, if 
placed in the ascendant, gives rise to strong Kuja dosha resulting into 
marital disaster, separation, early widowhood, murder, suicide, polygamy 
and extremely miserable married life. Mars in the ascendant makes one 
quite active, smart, short tempered, energetic and youthful in appearance 
even in old age. It gives muscular trouble, accidents, anguish, short 
temperament, blood pressure, impulsive and revengeful attitude and 
independent way of thinking. He cannot be easily dominated by others 
and does not like predominance of any one. Only persons governed by 
Sun can dominate him. However, the harsh and rigid nature of the native 
causes disturbance in married life. We have observed in innumerable 
birth charts that the Mars in the ascendant has resulted into early demise 
of spouse within 10 years of marriage, particularly in case of females. 
If Mars is well disposed or is Yogkaraka or is under the influence of 
Sun and Venus, the married life remains intact but conjugal bliss is 


; n South India the native having placement of Mars in the 1* house 


178 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


absent. There are frequent quarrels, conflicts, contradictions, confusion, 
suspicions, allegations, harassment, tortures, tensions, frustrations and 
disappointment. We will be discussing hereunder various such cases for 
all the 12 ascendants where Mars occupies the ascendant. We would like 
to share our interesting finding that the placement of Mars in ascendant 
gives least adversities to the natives who are born in Taurus and Libra 
ascendant. 


Mars in 1* house 
For Aries Ascendant 


Placement of Mars in the ascendant in Aries gives rise to effective Kuja 
dosha. Many times astrologers believe that Mars in own sign Aries in 
the ascendant will not create any problem regarding married life. 
However, it is not so if we study practical cases of Mars in Aries in the 
ascendant. In fact, Mars owns 1“ and 8" and aspects the has 7” and 8” g 
houses. The 7” and 8" houses are connected with marriage and married 
life, particularly in female nativity. Here, Mars will give rise to effective 
Kuja dosha and cause marital disaster. In one way or the other, the native 
may suffer from loss of spouse, death of spouse or separation. It 
sometimes leads to maladjustment with the life partner. Thus, Mars in 
Aries in the ascendant should not be ignored with regard to Kuja dosha 
and unhappy married life. 


Illustration no. 4.1.1 Horoscope no. 18 


She was married on 5.12.6! and was leading a happy married life with 
her partner. Suddenly husband suffered from serious illness and expired 
on 1.1.69 1. e. after 7 years of her marriage during the Sun-Venus dasa- 
bukti. Mars in the ascendant in Aries is responsible for her widowhood. 
Here Rahn has also played the negative role in shortening the span of 
her married life. Rahu is the dispositor of Mars and obtains the navamsa 
of Sun. Thus Mars causes heavy Kuja dosha resulting into early 
widowhood. 


Observation 1.1 


Mars in the ascendant in Aries creates problems in married life and 
curtails happiness of married life either by widowhood, separation, and 
loss of wife or polygamy. However, Mars in Aries in the ascendant does 
not show inclination towards adultery. 


KUJA DOSHA DUE TO MARS In ASCENDANT 179 


Illustration No. 4.1.1 Horoscope No.18 
Bom on 43.1938 at 08:30 hrs. 
Place: Rawalpindi Long 73:08 E Lat. 33:38 N 
Balance of Mahadasha of Ketu 5Y 6M 6D 

LAGNA 


: PLANETARY DEGREES 


Asc 05 : 40: 16 
Sun 239 ; 53:09 
Moon 122 : 49:37 
Mars 08 : 18:00 
Mercury 335 : 15:50 
Jupiter 290 : 23:35 
Venus 339 : 09: 44 

343 : 04: 28 

216 : 27:49 

36 3 27: 49 


180 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


Following are details of some other birth charts, which were also 
examined to deduce the above observation: 


Male DOB 08.03.1906 TOB 09:15 Bareilly T/44 
Male DOB 06.04.1951 TOB 05.47 Agra T/59 
Male DOB 30.08.1941 TOB 21:47 Reevan D/36 
Female DOB 25.01.1976 TOB 02:09 Almora $1/99 
Female DOB 07.09.1973 TOB 21:52 Ludhiana RI/10 
Male DOB 08.07.1949 TOB 02:15 Mysore  RI/95 
Female DOB 02.07.1945 TOB 00:31 Almora_ R1/98 


I AUR WN - 


Mars in 15' house 
For Taurus Ascendant 


Placement of Mars in Taurus in the ascendant gives rise to in effective 
Kuja dosha to the best of our experience and study. We have observed 
that persons having Mars in the ascendant do not face serious marital 
problems until unless Mars is afflicted. Here Mars is the lord of 7" and 
12* houses and if it is posited in the ascendant, one will be married in 
the family, which will be known to the family of the nativé in any manner. 
The native is strong minded, stubborn, short tempered, confident, 
impulsive, energetic, egoistic, active, dynamic and dashing. Such natives 
always want their predominance over their life partner. However, in spite 
of serious and sensitive set backs in married life marriage remains intact. 
Their life partners also have the tendencies of Mars. Mostly there is ego 
clash and long lasting quarrels. In fact, Mars does tend one toward 
immoral activities but does not break the marriage. 


In one case, Mars and Venus are conjoined in Taurus ascendant, and 
this conjunction falls over the axis of nodes. The affliction has been 
further enhanced due to aspect of Saturn over the ascendant. This is a 
very pretty and charming lady who has faced innumerable problems and 
anguish of her husband from time to time. She left the home for few 
months with the intention of divorce. The husband tortures her lot but 
the marriage is still intact even after 15 years of her marriage. In this 
case lagna and 7* lord, Mars and Venus, both are heavily afflicted but 
the divorce was saved. In many other cases Mars in Taurus ascendant 
has resulted into happy married life. Unhappy conjugal life will only be 
there if Mars is afflicted in the Taurus ascendant. 


KUJA DOSHA DUE TO MARS IN ASCENDANT 181 


lilustration no. 4.1.2 Horoscope no. 19 


She was bom in Taurus ascendant with Mars and Venus therein. She 
is a smart girl who has always been a centre of attraction among males. 
In spite of having a concern for her moral valnes, she became weak at 
times. However, she was married on 18.2.94 with a bank officer. She 
has been blessed with a son on 2.10.1995. She is living happily with 
her husband and son. Mars in the ascendant has resulted in short 
temperament, high headedness, over confidence and predominance over 
her husband. However, there had never been any problem in her married 
life. This is so because Mars and Venus in the ascendant are unafflicted. 


Observation 2.1 


It is our humble observation that Mars if placed in Taurus ascendant does 
not create any disaster in married life. In fact, this is our humble opinion 
about Mars that it remains very much under control if placed with Sun 
or in the sign of the Sun or under mutual aspect or exchange with the 
Sun. However, Mars if conjoined or placed with or in the sign of Venus 
remains quite liberal as far as morals are concerned but does not spoil 
the marriage. It has also been observed that Mars in Taurus or Libra 
ascendant does create popularity, inclination and interest in opposite sex 
and that too without damaging conjugal life. The natives having Mars 
in Taurus ascendant, particularly females, should be checked and 
restricted as far as their association with opposite sex is concerned. 

Following are details of some of the birth charts, which were also 
examined to deduce the above observation: 


|. Female DOB 11.09.1960 TOB 11:36 Etawah R/84 


2. Male DOB 14.09.1943 TOB 21:30 Lucknow Q/75 
3. Male DOB 27.09.1975 TOB 20:55 Lucknow C/125 
4. Male DOB 07.02.1976 TOB 13:18 Lucknow WI/3 
5. Male DOB 13.01.1944 TOB 15:36 Karnataka W1/23 


Mars in 15 house 
For Gemini Ascendant 


Mars if placed in Gemini ascendant causes effective Kuja dosha. One 
may lose his or her life partner due to accident or illness. Separation 
is also possible if Saturn, Rahn or Sun have anything to do with the 7” 
house or its lord. Mars is the lord of 6* and 11" honse, for Gemini 
ascendant. The lord of the ascendant is inimical towards Mars and the 


182 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


Illustration No. 4.12 Horoscope No. 19 
Born on 30.4.1970 at 07:00 hrs. 

Place: Allahabad Long 81: 50 ELat. 25:57 N 
Balance of Mahadasha ot Mars 1Y 7M 21D 


PLANETARY DEGREES 


Asc 41:15 
Sun 15: 51 
Moon 303 : 32 
Mars 44; 16 
Mercury 28: 53R 
Jupiter 186 : 35R 
Venus 39; 14 
Saturn 18; 18 
Rahu 315 : 32 
Ketu 135 ; 32 


KUJA DOSHA DUE TO MARS IN ASCENDANT 183 


lordship is also related with the malefic houses, 6™ and 11°. Thus Mars 
in Gemini ascendant will certainly spoil the married life, either by death 
or separation. This is also an adverse location of Mars, which curtails 
marital happiness due to differences in opinion with the spouse, or dune 
to indulgence in licentious deeds. 


Illustration no. 4.13 Horoscope no. 20 


The native is very charming, beautiful and pretty girl with Mars in the 
ascendant in inimical sign of Mercury. She was deeply involved with 
a boy and had a very long courtship but could not marry him. She 
intensely desired a child from her boyfriend but he firstly refused as how 
would she carry and grow up the child. She then married another person 
who was a doctor, on 7.5.89 so that she can easily carry and give the 
name to the child of her boyfriend. Before marrying she made an 
agreement with the doctor that they will not have any physical relation- 
ship. As he was deeply in love with the native, without any positive 
response from her side, he somehow agreed and accepted the condition. 
The native married him and within a short period she was happy to 
conceive the child of her previous lover. After begetting the child she 
was shocked to know that her paramour was not only disloyal towards 
her but also made efforts to defame her. Her paramour started calling 
her his concubine and her child as an illegitimate one. 


Here, Mars has given rise to effective Kuja dosha. Mars obtains 
navamsa of Venus and Venus obtains the navamsa of Saturn. This is 
a planetary disposition tending her towards adultery. The 5" lord Venus 
is retrograde and is placed under papakartari yoga, and is also aspected 
by malefic Saturn. Santan-karka Jupiter, who is debilitated in the 8* 
house in association with Saturn, is aspected by Mars, justifying the 
illegitimate and immoral birth of a child. 


Observation 3.1 


Placement of Mars in Gemini ascendant causes effective Kuja dosha. 
lf Mars is unafflicted, it may cause separation or unhappy married life. 
However, if Mars is associated with Rahu, Ketu or Saturn in any manner, 
then this disposition of Mars may even cause loss of life partner. Anyway, 
7" house should also be examined in case of males, and 8* house in 
females, before reaching any conclusion. 

Following are details of few more birth charts, which were also 
examined to deduce the above observation: 


184 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


Illustration No, 4.1.3 Horoscope No.20 

Bom on 14.4.1961 at 11:00:00 hrs. 

Place:: Pratapgarh Long 82:02 E Lat. 25:52 N 
Balance of Mahadasha of Mercury 15Y 9M 7D 


Asc 83 : 28 : 48 
Sun 0:43 .09 
Moon 347 : 37 : 58 
Mars 85 : 57 : 38 
Mercury 343: 09 : 51 
Jupiter 281: 14: 01 
Venus 355 : 32 :07R 
Saturn 276: O1 : 02 
Rahu 132: 00 : 34 
Ketu 312 : 00 : 34 


KUJA DOSHA DUE TO MARS IN ASCENDANT 185 


1. Female DOB 30.10.1960 TOB 21:13 Delhi T/53 
2. Female DOB 13.06.1938 TOB 06:00  Bijnor T/67 
3. Female DOB 06.10.1954 TOB 12:52 Meerut T/89 
4. Female DOB 16.05.1955 TOB 07.55 Jaipur Bi/44 
5. Female DOB 17.08.1949 TOB 01:45 Indore B1/64 
6. Male DOB 02.11.1960 TOB 21:10 Ramanathpuram B1/331 


Mars in 1“ honse 
For Cancer Ascendant 


Placement of Mars in Cancer, in the ascendant, gives rise to ineffective 
Kuja dosha. Here Mars is Yogkarka as it owns 10” & 5* house. The 
placement of Mars in Cancer ascendant makes the native charming, 
active, dynamic, energetic, smart, impulsive and mostly fair in complex- 
ion. This Mars does not create any problem in married life until unless 
the 7" house is also afflicted. Mars in Cancer ascendant may be adverse 
regarding birth, health, progress or happiness of children, if Mars or the 
fifth house is afflicted. However, persons born in Cancer or Leo 
ascendant do not enjoy very happy married life but also, differences and 
problems do not become serious. 


Ilinstration no. 4.1.4 Horoscope no. 21 


The native was married to a beautiful charming girl on 11.3.86 and was 
blessed with a son on 25.9.89. The native had got involved with a girl 
related to him, from March 89. The native was very serious for the girl 
due to whom he had eared lot of defamation and disrespect in the 
society. On 18.5.94 the girl was married to another boy. However 
differences started between the native and his wife because of his 
involvement with the girl. In spite of differences between the two, their 
married life is still intact. Mars is the Yogkarka for Cancer ascendant 
and its placement in the ascendant does not cause any serious adversity, 
if unafflicted. 


Observation 4.1 


Mars in Cancer ascendant gives rise to ineffective Kuja dosha. \n spite 
of minor disturbances married life remains happy & intact. Separation 
or any other disaster is possible only if the 7* house is afflicted in one 
or the other way and if the affliction lends its adversity to the Mars, 
problem regarding happiness of children may also take place. 

Following birth charts were also examined to deduce the above 
observation: 


186 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


Illustration No.4.1.4 


Born on 09.06.1961 
Place:: Aonla 
Balance of Mahadasha of 
LAGNA 


Horoscope No.21 

at 08:00:00 hrs. 

Long 79:09 ELat. 28:17 N 
Ketu 4Y 1M HID 


Mercury 
Jupiter 
Venus 
Saturn 
Rahu 
Ketu 
NAVAMSA 


KUJA DOSHA DUE TO MARS IN ASCENDANT 187 


1. Female DOB 31.07.1968 TOB 05:15 Jhansi T/26 
2. Female DOB 05.10.1962 TOB 02:00 Varanasi T/94 
3. Female DOB 20.08.1966 TOB 05:05 Gwalior S/45 
4. Male DOB 19.07.1953 TOB 05:23 Muzaffarnagar D1/91 
5. Male DOB 13.08.1970 TOB 16:20 Delhi D1/101 
6. Female DOB 01.07.1957 TOB 06:20 Lucknow Q/26 
7, Male DOB 27.04.1946 TOB 12:20 Lucknow C/89 
8. Female DOB 01.08.1968 TOB 05:30 Lucknow B1/137 
9. Male DOB 08.04.1971 TOB 00:34 Batticola B1/311 


Mars in 1‘ honse 


For Leo Ascendant 


Placement of Mars in Leo, in the ascendant, gives rise to ineffective Kuja 
dosha. Mars is Yogkaraka for Leo ascendant, as it owns 4" & 9™ houses. 
Here, Mars aspects the 4" house of its own. Therefore, matters regarding 
sweet home are sound. It has also been repeatedly said that Mars does 
not give adverse results in Leo or whenever it is under the influence of 
Sun. Therefore, we believe that Mars in Leo in ascendant gives rise to 
ineffective Kuja dosha. 


Illustration no. 4.1.5 Horoscope no. 22 


The native is a beautiful and charming lady who was married to a very 
handsome, smart, decent and fun loving man on 15.6.86. She has been 
blessed with a son. She is leading a happy as well as prosperous married 
life. Mars is yogkaraka for Leo ascendant and its placement in Leo in 
the ascendant gives rise to ineffective Kuja dosha. 


Observation 5.1 


Mars in the ascendant in Leo does not cause mangli dosha. Married life 
is generally happy & prosperous. 
'n fact for persons bom in Cancer & Leo ascendant married life remains 
questionable because the lord of ascendant are luminaries and the 7™ 
lord Satum is inimical to them, therefore, the nature of husband & wife 
is just opposite to each other. Only due to this reason certain differences 
arise between the couple. However, placement of Mars in Leo ascendant 
does not cause any negative outcome in the married life. 

Following birth charts were also examined to infer the above 
conclusion: 


188 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


Illustration No, 4.1.5 Horoscope No.22 

Bom on 26.10.1964 at 02:58:00 hrs. 

Place:: Kanpur Long 80:04 E Lat. 26:27 N 
Balance of Mahadasha of Rahun 1OY 1M 2D 1 


PLANETARY DEGREES 


Asc 144 39 :05 
Sun 189 08 :07 
Moon 72 31:35 
Mars 120 33 :33 
Mercury 195 42 :38 
Jupiter 30 06: 18R 
Venus 150 06: 16 
Saturn 305 O01 :27R 
Rahu 60 47 :28 


Ketu 240 47 :28 


KUJA DOSHA DUE TO MARS IN ASCENDANT 189 


1. Female DOB 13.09.1957 TOB 3.50 Patna 1/33 

2 Male DOB 05.10.1966 TOB 5.00 Pakwali D1/125 
3. Male DOB 26.01.1948 TOB 31/35 Ishta Meerut Q/16 
4. Female DOB 07.08.1957 TOB 7.10 New Delhi C/120 
5. Male DOB 13.07.1931 TOB 7/20 Istha Varanasi C/186 
6. Male DOB 03.10.1925 TOB 57/6 Istha Kanpur D/134 
7. Male DOB 26.10.1964 TOB 2.58 Kanpur $ 1/252 
8. Male DOB 28.06.1963 TOB 9.15 Deoband W1/167 


Mars iu 1% house 
For Virgo Ascendant 


Placement of Mars in Virgo, in the ascendant, gives rise to effective Kuja 
dosha. This disposition of Mars is especially adverse for females. Here, 
Mars is the lord of 3" 8¢ 8" house and aspects the 8* house, which is 
damaging for the longevity of the husband. It may cause separation or 
loss of life partner. Generally, such natives are good looking but they 
may suffer from bilious complaints, blood trouble, hypertension and skin 
problem. It has also been observed that the native suffers from serious 
ailments, operation, burn or injury etc. during adverse vibrations of Mars. 
Placement of Mars in the ascendant in inimical sign Virgo makes the 
conjugal life unhappy, unless the 7* house is well disposed and strong. 


Illustration no. 4.1.6 Horoscope no. 23 


She is a beautiful, smart and talented girl who was married on 30.6.1983 
at the delicate age of 18. She led a miserable marital life, harassed and 
tortured everyday. Her husband expired on 24.7.1997 in a road accident. 
Here, Mars, who is the 8" lord, aspects the 8* and 7* house, which 
resulted in widowhood at 32 years of age. She is passing her life in 
isolation with her only son. 


Illustration no. 4.1.7 Horoscope uo. 24 


The native is a medical professional engaged in the faculty of a medical 
college. Her initial married life was quite unhappy for a few years. 
Thereafter, her husband died in a road accident and she had to bear lots 
of tribulations for many years. The younger brother of her husband was 
very sympathetic towards her. Compassion grew into liking and both tied 
the nuptial knot on 284.1998. However, as the destiny desired for her, 
even after 5 years of her second marriage, she is childless and passing 
a very strained life. 


190 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


Illustration No. 4.1.6 Horoscope No.23 

Bom on 19.01.1965 at 22:00:00 hrs. 

Place:: Gorakhpur Long 83:23 E Lat. 26:45 N 
Balance of Mahadasha of Ketu 3Y 11M 21D 


PLANETARY DEGREES 


Asc 156 : 24: 12 
Sun 279 : 02: 31 
Moon 125 : 45: 31 
Mars 125 : 45: 31 
Mercury 154: 10: 02 
Jupiter 255: 05: 11 
Venus 22:53: 17 
Satur 255 : 49 : 43 
Rahu 59 : 05: 12 


Ketu 239 : 05: 12 


KUJA DOSHA DUE TO MARS IN ASCENDANT 191 


Illustration No. 4.1.7 Horoscope No.24 

Born on 1.11.1968 at 5:00:00 hrs. 

Place: Morena Long 78:04 E Lat. 26:30 N 
Balance of Mahadasha of Jupiter 7Y IM 8D 


- PLANETARY DEGREES 


Asc 175 : 14 : 44 
Sun 195: 1] : 28 
Moon 327 : 24 : 38 
Mars 151 ; 31 : 37 
Mercury 176: 41 : 06 
Jupiter 153 : 55 : 50 
Venus 229 : 41 : 17 
Saturn 357: 22 :38R 


Rahu 345 : 59 : 00 


192 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


Observation 6.1 


Effective Kuja dosha is there, particularly for females, if Mars occupies 
the ascendant in Virgo resulting into unhappy married life, loss of life 
partner, ailment or operation of the spouse. Separation also cannot be 
ruled out if the 7 house contains Saturn, Rahu or Sun. [n many cases 
widowhood has come into evidence around 30-36 years of age. Here, 
Mars is the lord of 3:4 and 8'* house and becomes extremely malefic, 
as Virgo is it's inimical sign. The horoscope should be examined 
carefully and the position of Jupiter should be judged properly before 
arriving at any conclusion. The ascendant lord Mercury is inimical to 
Mars; therefore, native also suffers from many troubles connected with 
blood, skin and stomach. 

Following are some other birth details, charts of which were also 
examined to infer the above conclusion: 


Female DOB 02.05.1967 TOB 15.5 Lucknow S$/28 C 
Female DOB 01.!1.1968 TOB 05.00 Murauna S/55C 
Male DOB 15.02.1950 TOB 20.30 Delhi C/54 


Male DOB 10.07.1950 TOB 12:08:30 Bareily C/109 
Male DOB 13.10.1970 TOB 06:18:28 Lucknow’ B1/272 
Male DOB 06.12.1968 TOB 02:24 Batti Cola B1/309 
Male DOB 01.08.1970 TOB 13.00 Lucknow B1I/349 
Male DOB 24.10.1972 TOB 05.30 Etawah $1/20] 
. Female DOB 19.01.1965 TOB 22:00 Gorakhpur W1/357 
10. Male DOB 04.01.1970 TOB 04.00 Varanasi W1/164 


We N DAW RYH OD 


Mars in 1‘ house 
For Libra Ascendant 


Placement of Mars in Libra, in the ascendant, is certainly an adverse 
disposition of Mars, which gives rise to effective Kuja dosha. Here, Mars 
creates many problems in married life. The native is adulterous and has 
a tendency to switch over from one to another, i.e. he has an aptitude 
to change frequently. The native has extreme passion but the life span 
of such a native is short. This disposition of Mars in Libra ascendant 
often causes heart trouble, which may result in open-heart surgery. The 
loss of life partner can also not be ruled out. The family of the life partner 
is generally known before the settlement of marriage or they would have 
lived in the same locality during childhood or played together. Accidental 
deaths may also take place ifthe 8* house if afflicted & the /agna lord 


KUJA DOSHA DUE TO MARS IN ASCENDANT 193 


Venus is weak. Proper examination & regular check up of heart region 
will be of immense benefit. Hypertension, muscular problems, burns & 
boils are the regular feature, if Mars joins Libra ascendant. 


Illustration no. 4.1.8 Horoscope no. 25 


The person in discussion is a smart and handsome man who was married 
on 9.5.77. The native is a business tycoon in packaging plastics. He was 
an engineer by profession but due to his acumen in business he set his 
foot in the world of commerce. He was intimately involved with his 
sister-in-law, which created lot of differences between him and his wife. 
The native also suffered heart attack on 19.2.9] and had to undergo 
bypass surgery on 12.994. He has visited several foreign countries. 
However, lately he had a precipitous downfall in his business. 

Mars is Maarkesh for Libra ascendant and its placement in the 
ascendant creates problems to self. We have mentioned that Jupiter's 
aspect or association does not eliminate the adversity caused by Kuja 
dosha. On the contrary, it is enhanced. In the present birth chart Jupiter 
falls in the 7" hotise and has mutual aspect with Mars. Even then the 
native suffered heart attack and had to undergo open-heart surgery. 
Jupiter in the 7" house does not make one loyal towards the life partner, 
until unless the Sun also influences the 7" house in any manner. Jupiter's 
direct aspect on Mars has not done any good to the native by eliminating 
or neutralising the effect of Mars in the ascendant. 


Observation 7.1 


Placement of Mars in Libra, ascendant, is more harmful for self but not 
damaging for married life unless 7" house, its lord or Venus are afflicted. 
We have our humble observation that Mars remains under control with 
Venus or in the sign of Venus, if it is absolutely unafflicted by the 
association or aspect of malefic. Generally, this disposition of Mars does 
not cause separation or widowhood until unless the 7* or 8* houses are 
under the influence of malefic. However the native has short life, and 
he may suffer from heart problem, open-heart surgery, hypertension, 
bums, or accidental death. This is so because Mars is the lord of two 
'‘Maaraka' houses, 2™ & 7". However, Mars does not kill the native 
during its period. 

Following are details of some more birth charts, which were also 
examined to infer the above conclusion: 


1. Female DOB 24.3.1967 TOB 19:45 Allahabad T/S 
2. Male DOB 12.10.1931 TOB 7:54 Masulipatnam T/70 


194 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


Illustration No. 4.1.8 Horoscope No.25 

Born on 20.7.1952 at 14:45:36 hrs. 

Place: Jabalpur Long 79:57 E Lat. 23:10 N 
Balance of Mahadasha of Rahu SY 6M 2D 


PLANETARY DEGREES 


Asc 190 : 21: 44 
Sun 94 : 18: 02 
Moon 75:55: 18 
Mars 197 : 03: 49 
Mercury 120 : 24: 49 
Jupiter 23: 44: 51 
Venus 101: 18: 34 
Saturn 166: 16: 51 
Rahu 298 2 26: 31 
Ketu 118 : 26: 31 


NAVAMSA 


KUJA DOSHA DUE TO MARS IN ASCENDANT 195 


3. Female DOB 15.10.1961 TOB 06:45 Varanasi T/82 LM 
4. Female DOB 26.11.1927 TOB 05:20 Bareilly $/36 

5. Male DOB 25.09.1951 TOB 09:44 Meerut C/11 HO 
6. Male DOB 27.03.1967 TOB 21:00 Lucknow C/163 
7. Male DOB 02.12.1974 TOB 15:50 Lucknow BI/188 


Mars in 1* honse 
For Scorpio Ascendant 


Placement of Mars in Scorpio, in the ascendant, does not cause effective 
Kuja dosha. Here, Mars owns the ascendant and joins it too, so it does 
not give rise to any negative effect in relation to the mirth of married 
life. However, it is harmful for health of own as it may give rise to 
hypertension. Generally, such persons are very serious, extremely com- 
plicated and love of sensual pleasure is their weakness. They cannot be 
commanded or ruled by others except by those who are ruled by Sun. 
Such natives are very aggressive, dynamic, dashing, dominating, drastic, 
decisive, impulsive, energetic, active and smart. But they are rarely 
appreciated for these qualities. If Mars is afflicted in Scorpio ascendant 
by Mercury, Saturn or nodes, unnatural end of life may also come in 
the middle age. 


Illustration no. 4.1.9 Horoscope no. 26 


She is leading a prosperous married life for the last 33 years and has 
been blessed with three worthy sons. The husband is a senior officer who 
is presently working as a general manager in a government organisation. 
Her married life is generally average. There had never been any serious 
problem in her married life. In many other cases too, we have found that 
such persons don't lead unhappy married life. Generally, they seek 
pleasures readily wherever they get the same. 

In one case of Mars in Scorpio ascendant the native was involved 
with a princess who was minister in the congress govt. in U. P. She was 
multimillionaire and very beautiful young lady of 30 yr. who got attracted 
towards this native with Mars in Scorpio ascendant. This spoiled her 
married life. Another Scorpio born native, with Mars in the ascendant, 
died around 45 years of age due to massive heart attack. Such natives 
with Mars in Scorpio ascendant face problems in love marriage, in spite 
of many love affairs. 


Observation 8.1 


Placement of Mars in Scorpio ascendant gives rise to ineffective Kuja 


196 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


Illustration No, 4.1.9 Horoscope No.26 

Born on 27.10.1948 at 08:30:00 hrs. 

Place: Delhi Long 77:13 E Lat. 28:39 N 

Balance of Mahadasha of Ketu 6Y 6M 3D 
LAGNA 


MON 


ASC. SUN VEN 
sUP MAR KET MER 


PLANETARY DEGREES 


Asc 215 20. 35 
Sun 190 27 47 
Moon 120 55- 23 
Mars 223 59 08 
Mercury 176 56 34R 
Jupiter 243 07 43 
Venus 150 44 02 
Saturn 130 47 48 
Rahu i .52 40 


Ketu 191 :52 40 


KUJA DOSHA DUE TO MARS IN ASCENDANT 197 


dosha. This position of Mars does not create adversity in married life 
until 7° house and its lord are afflicted. 

Following are details of some other birth charts, which were also 
examined to infer the above conclusion: 


1. Male DOB 07.01.1941 TOB 03:05:05 Sultanpur T/8 
2. Male DOB 2401.1941 TOB 0435 Agra T/47 
3. Male DOB 16.01.1971 TOB 04.54  Chittargarh D1/223 
4. Male DOB 08.11.1948 TOB 07.25 Lucknow B1/36 
5. Male DOB 10.08.1937 TOB 14.14 Muzaffarnagar C/12 
6. Male DOB 19.11.1947 TOB 1724 77E 2, 29N 12K/S56 
7. Female DOB 06.12.1974 TOB 0537 Saharanpur B1/104 
8. Female DOB 17.02.1971 TOB 01:35 Kanpur BI/155 


Mars in 1° house 


For Sagittarius Ascendant 


. 


Placement of Mars in Sagittarius ascendant gives rise to effective Kuja 
dosha. Here, Mars owns the 5" and 12" houses and, therefore, the native 
tends towards love marriage and liking towards opposite sex. However, 
this position of Mars brings unhappy married life. There is ego clash 
or clash of interests of each other. 


Illustration no. 4.1.10 Horoscope no. 27 


This is the horoscope of a very famous and successful paediatrician. 
She was exceptionally beautiful and charming and was always 
appreciated for her outstanding beauty. She had a long lasting love 
affair with a doctor who was inferior to her in every respect. She 
was the danghter of chairman of U.P.S.E.B. Her parents were quite 
reluctant for her marriage with her boyfriend. But destiny cannot be 
changed. She got married with the same boy during the year 1985 at 
31 years of age & her marriage was irrevocably damaged within two 
years. 

Similarly a Christian girl, who had a love marriage, was involved 
in many love affairs. Her adulterous predilections ultimately resulted in 
divorce. In another case, illusion of another female was shattered who 
regarded a bank manager as her husband for 7 years. One is highly 
impulsive & emotional, if Mars occupies the Sagittarius, & the goodness 
of the native generally creates problem in his or her marriage. 


198 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA ss, 


Illustration No. 4.1.10 Horoscope No.27 

Born on 6.10.1954 at 12:54:00 hrs. 

Place: Meerut Long 77:44 E Lat. 29:1 N 

Balance of Mahadasha of Sun 3Y 8M 17D 
LAGNA 


DEGREES 
254 : 57 
169 1°17 
271 : 45 
267 : 18 
Mercury 194 : 40 
Jupiter 94:1 
Venus 212 : 31 
Saturn 95 : 24 
Rahu 256 : 47 


Ketu 76 : 47 


KUJA DOSHA DUE TO MARS IN ASCENDANT 199 


Observation 9.1 


Placement of Mars in Sagittarius, in the ascendant, causes effective Kuja 
dosha. One is inclined towards love & liking, and also has a love 
marriage if the other combinations of the 5", 7* or 9* house are related 
with each other in one or other way. Both, married life & love affairs, 
are full of problems, tensions and utmost failure. 

Following are details of some more birth charts, which were also 
examined to deduce the above observation: 


1. Female DOB 06.10.1954 TOB 12:52 Meerut T/83 

2. Female DOB 12.02.1960 TOB 04.00 Gorakhpur D1/246 
3. Female DOB 03.12.1965 TOB 09.00 Lucknow R/72 

4. Female DOB 18.06.1954 TOB 20.30 Bombay B1/282 
5. Male DOB 21.02.1943 TOB 0400  Hardoi D/114 
6. Male DOB 22.03.1956 TOB 02.25 Gorakhpur BI/114 
7. Male DOB 08.04.1971 TOB 00.34 Batti Cola B1/310 
8. Male DOB 01.05.1954 TOB 22.00  Suharal B1/329 
9. Male DOB 166.1965 TOB 19:23 Saharanpur B1/359 
10.Female DOB 14.11.1965 TOB 11:05 Lucknow B1/390 


Mars in 1% house 
For Capricorn Ascendant 


Placement of Mars in Capricom in the ascendant, gives rise to Ruchchaka 
Mahapurusha Rajayoga. Here, Mars is the lord of 4"° & 11" houses and 
aspects the 4* house but it causes effective Kuja dosha. One may lead 
unhappy married life. The conjugal life will be full of tensions and 
frustration. But any serious problem such as widowhood, divorce or 
death will not be there. 


Illustration no. 4.1.11 Horoscope no. 28 


She was married on 24.11.49 with a very handsome and smart person. 
She was issue less and led a very hard life, at least in old age. There 
usually were minor differences in opinion with her husband in respect 
of money matters otherwise married life was generally happy. She was 
a skilled artist who earned great recognition in this field. She died on 
19.11.1999 due to serious attack of asthma. Exalted Mars in the 
ascendant made her quite energetic, enthusiastic and active. Thus, 
exalted Mars in the ascendant did not curtail marital bliss, neither it 
deluged marriage or caused separation or any other serious adversity. She 


200 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


Illustration No.4.1.11 Horoscope No.28 

Bom on 20.2.1930 at 4:54:00. hrs. 

Place: Lucknow Long 80:56 E Lat. 26:51 N 
Balance of Mahadasha of Jupiter OY IM 15D 


PLANETARY DEGREES 


Asc 275 : 6 
Sun 307 : 39 
Moon 213 : 13 
Mars 287 : 20 
Mercury 44 : 07 
Jupiter 310 : 52 
Venus 256 : 09 
Saturn 13: 24 
Rahu 193 : 24 
Ketu 


NAVAMSA 


KUJA DOSHA DUE TO MARS IN ASCENDANT 201 
4 
died at the age of 70, just 15 months after the death of her husband on 
17.8.1998. 

A young doctor girl had many carnal relations and ultimately she 
was successful in marrying a handsome colleague of same profession. 
Both are running a large nursing home and she is leading a happy married 
life in spite her colourful past. Generally, the exalted Mars in the 
ascendant gives rise to low moral values unless Jupiter influences the 
ascendant or the 5" house. In another case, a man was deeply involved 
with a married lady for many years. He got married at 28 years and had 
a happy married life in spite of his extra marital relationship. A famous 
physician of Allahabad had his sister-in-law as her concubine & she used 
to move with him everywhere. He was a bold person & tried a lot for 
the surrender of famous dacoit "Dadua'. He was about to be successful 
in his endeavours but one-day we read in the newspaper that he was 
murdered by "Dadua" due to certain misunderstanding. In the horoscope 
of this native, the 8* house was aspected by malefic & was heavily 
afflicted. We don't mean to say that exalted Mars in the ascendant caused 
such adversities. In the horoscope of the above-discussed native the 
indications of murder were there. However, exalted Mars in the ascen- 
dant does not cause effective Kuja dosha 8c married life remains intact. 


Observation 10.1 


Exalted Mars in the ascendant gives rise to ineffective Kuja dosha. 
Married life continues though extra marital relations may cause minor 
upheaval for a short period. This is a good disposition of Mars for 
energetic, dynamic & dashing personality. It gives youthful appearance 
but the native is very much self-oriented, even in love affairs. 

Following are some other birth charts, which were also examined 
to infer the above conclusion: 


. Female DOB 23.12.1967 TOB 09:12 Vrindaban T/22 
Male DOB 11.10.1954 TOB = 13:20 Sagar(M.P) R/75 

. Female DOB 28.04.1956 TOB 01.50 Dehradun T/74 

Male DOB 18.01.1964 TOB 07:00 Sultanpur BI/126 

. Male DOB 21.12.1952 TOB 10:00 Garhwal QI1/199 

. Female DOB 28.11.1967 TOB 11:30 Lucknow  K/62 


DAunhwWwn, 


Mars in 1% house 
For Aquarius Ascendant 


When Mars occupies the Aquarius ascendant, ineffective Kuja dosha: 


202 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


arises. Mars owns 3" & 10" house and aspects the 4*, 7"* & 8" houses. 
There is no serious damage in the married life until unless 7'" house is 
not adversely afflicted. This is not a good disposition for health as one 
may suffer from hypertension. stomach complaints and blood impurity. 
Head injury can also not be ruled out. 


Illustration no. 4.1.12 Horoscope 
no. 29 


The native was a captain in army & was married on 21.5.77. He was 
blessed with two daughters and one son respectively on 29.1.79, 8.3.80, 
and 13.9.8]. The married life is generally happy. The native is smart & 
valorous. He lost his right eye in Indo-Pak war on 16.12.71. He & his 
wife are looking after the business of transport & cooking gas. 


Observation 11.1 


In many cases we have observed that the placement of Mars in the 
ascendant in Aquarius does not affect the married life of the native. Any 
serious injury, wound operation or accident cannot be ruled out. 

Following are some other birth charts, which were also examined 
to infer the above conclusion: 


. Female DOB 15.03.1977 TOB 05:07 Allahabad  BI/126 
Male DOB 13.04.1945 TOB 04:52:23 Solan BI/41 
Male DOB 08.03.1964 TOB 06:25 Lucknow J/115 
Female DOB 03.01.1970 TOB 11:17 Bikaner Q1/20 

. Female DOB 02.03.1947 TOB 06:10 Madras K/60 


AWN 


Mars in 1° house 


For Pisces Ascendant 


Placement of Mars in Pisces ascendant gives rise to ineffective Kuja 
dosha. Here, Mars owns 2™ & 9" houses & aspects the 7'*, 8* & 4! 
houses. Though Mars is a ‘Maarkesh’ for Pisces ascendant, even then 
we have not observed its negative effects in the ascendant except the 
adverse effects on the health of the life partner. Married life is generally 
smooth. 


Ifustration no. 4.1.13 Horoscope no. 30 


Native is a senior scientist who has visited many countries for the 
research on various drugs. He married a T.V. artist on 9.5.86 and has 
been blessed with two sons. Married life is generally happy but the health 


KUJA DOSHA DUE TO MARS IN ASCENDANT 203 


Illustration No. 4.1.12 
Bor on 13.4.1945 
Place: Solan 
Balance of Mahadasha of 


Horoscope No.29 

at 4:52:23 hrs. 

Long 77:06 E Lat. 30:54 N 
Ketu 4Y 1M 19D 


) 
- PLANETARY DEGREES 


Asc 

Sun 
Moon 
Mars 
Mercury 
Jupiter 
Venus 
Saturn 
Rahu 
Ketu 


312 : 57 : 38 
309 : 32 : 44 


204 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


Illustration No.4.1.13 


Born on 07.01.1957 
Place: Bulandshahar 
Balance of Mahadasha of 

LAGNA 


Mercury 
Jupiter 
Venus 
Saturn 
Rahu 
Ketu 


Horoscope No30 

at 12:10:00 hrs. 

Long 77:49 E Lat. 28:30 N 
Jupiter 2Y 11M 23D 


KUJA DOSHA DUE TO MARS IN ASCENDANT 205 


in various birth charts of Pisces ascendant, with Mars therein, that the 
health of the life partner remains questionable, often. But married life 
is mostly happy 8c prosperous. If the 7m lord Mercury is afflicted in any 
manner, only then the life will be disturbed. 


Observation 12.] 


We have observed that Mars in the ascendant in Pisces does not hamper 
married life, hence it gives rise to ineffective Kuja dosha. However, the 
health of the spouse may require attention frequently. 

Following are some more birth charts, which were also examined 
to infer the above conclusion: 


1. Female DOB 28.04.1947 TOB 05:06 Delhi S/67 

2. Female DOB 02.04.195] TOB 05.00 Lucknow C/157 

3. Female DOB 2404.1962 TOB 05:9:36 Meerut B1/318 

4. Male DOB 07.07.1949 TOB 23:45 Jalandhar Q1/342 

5. Male DOB 07.01.1957 TOB 12:10 Bulandshahr P/15 

6. Male DOB- 12.09.1941 TOB 31/30 Etawah H/63 
Ishta 


ftrar carfa fart = facrerrarfa waar | 
Tamanratta § rargeetu-aa: yay! / 


Education bestow politeness, politeness confers ability. Money 
is obtained from ability, religion from money and happiness from 


religion is achieved. 


CHAPTER 4.2 


KUJA DOSHA DUE TO MARS 
IN THE SECOND HOUSE 


immovable property, gains and savings. Mixed results are ob 

served when Mars is tenanted alone in the second house. Mars, 
if joins the 2" as 4" and 10* lord, gives loss of property, assets or money, 
to one or both the parents, during the childhood of an individual. Mars 
in 2"? may also curtail the life of husband as the 2™ house is 8" from 
the 7"° house. We have personally observed that Mars in the 2™ house 
is more harmful for females as compared to males. Mars in the second 
or eighth house can cause accident resulting into injury in skull during 
Mars' sub period in the major period of any planet. This position of Mars 
tempts the native to purchase new property and part away with old 
property. However, this is not a good position of Mars for financial 
matters. 

Mars in the 2™ house causes marital disturbance and various 
problems in the family. It is adverse disposition of Mars, which makes 
one to suffer from Kuja dosha. In fact, the adverse Placement of Mars 
in the 2"4 house may give rise to widowhood, if Mars is afflicted by 
malefics. Mars aspects the 5", s'" & 9" house from here. Many’ 
times, one suffers from trouble connected with children, lack of pros- 
perity, mental disorder, stomach ailments, piles, accidents and operations. 
We will illustrate few cases of Mars in the 24 house, and the results 
thereof. 


\ econd house governs wealth, monetary possessions, ownership of 


Kua DOSHA DUE TO MARS IN THE SECOND HOUSE 207 
Mars in 2"? house 


For Aries Ascendant: 


Mars is the lord of ascendant & 8" house and if placed in the 2", gives 
rise to effective Kuja dosha. The native will be stubborn, arrogant, 
aggressive, strong, impulsive and adamant in nature. He will have many 
complications in his nature though he would not be much secretive. 
Family life will be disturbed & his wife will not behave properly with 
him. The native would carry out the orders of his wife in the beginning 
due to immense love for her. But soon thereafter the native comes to 
know that his love and liking for his wife has made him absolutely 
henpecked and he has become the puppet in the hands of his spouse. 
This leads to serious misunderstandings and one has to bear separation 
or loss of spouse. 


Illustration no. 4.2.1 Horosope no. 31 


The native is a handsome and smart class | officer who got married with 
a charming, slim, tall and intelligent girl. He inspired her to appear in 
TAS exams. She followed the advice of her husband and is now an JAS 
officer holding a decent position. After success in IAS the wife became 
supercilious, ill tempered, adamant and arrogant. Gradually, severe 
misunderstandings crept in between the two. They have been separated 
now and have filed the case of divorce in the court of law. The worst 
part of the life of the native had been his married life, which is at the 
verge of divorce after 16 years when it became impossible for him to 
live together. 


Illustration no. 4.2.2 Horosope no. 32 


She is a beautiful and charming young girl who was married on 7.5.99. 
She has very high ambitions and aspirations in life. On 1.122000 her 
husband fell from a roof of multi-storey building and expired on the spot. 
All her desires and ambitions were crushed. She is now serving in a 
private organisation as a personal secretary of C.M.D. The adversity of 
Mars in the 2" house has been further enhanced due to adverse aspect 
of Maarkesh Venus who occupies the 8" house. In other words 2" & 
7 lord Venus is aspected by 1“ & 8” lord Mars. Thus, there is mutual 
exchange of Mars & Venus identical to 2" & 8" house. Venus falls in 
Anuradha Nakshatra whose lord is Saturn, therefore, she lost her 
husband in Rahu-Saturn dasa-bhukti. 


208 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


Illustration No. 4.2.1 
Bom on 28.2.1959 
Place: Nagpur 
Balance of Mahadasha of 


Mercury 
Jupiter 
Venus 
Saturn 
Rahu 
Ketu 
NAVAMSA 


Horoscope No. 31 

at 10:30:00 hrs. 

Long 79:12 E Lat. 21:10 N 
Sun 15Y 6M 28D 


KUJA DOSHA DUE TO MARS IN THE SECOND HOUSE 209 


Illustration No. 4.2.2 Horoscope No. 32 

Born on 3.1.1976 at 12:05:00 hrs. 

Place: Calcutta Long 88:20 E Lat. 22:30 N 

Balance of Mahadasha of Sun 0Y 7 11D 
LAGNA 


SUP. ASC. MAR 
KET 
el 


SANZ 
aiken 


~ PLANETARY DEGREES 


Asc O01 :28: 14 
Sun 258:29: O1 
Moon 278 :38: 12 
Mars 53 :16:35R 
Mercury 277 :02: 19 
Jupiter 352:10 : 53 
Venus 218:35: 31 
Saturn 97:21:57R 
206 :59: 51 
26:59: 51 


210 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


Observation 12 


For Aries ascendant, Mars in the 2°¢ house gives rise to effective Kuja 
dosha. One suffers from miserable married life, separation or death of 
spouse. One also suffers from problems connected with children, 
stomach disorder, blood troubles, operation & accidents. Generally, such 
a native believes in extreme love or extreme hate. 

We also considered many other birth charts to reach at the above 
observation, some of which are being given below for the benefit of the 
readers. 


Female DOB 03.01.1976 TOB 12:05 Calcutta (82) W 
Male DOB 08.06.1949 TOB 02:30 Lucknow (107) 
Male DOB 20.04.1970 TOB 06;00 Lucknow C1/48 
Male DOB 19.07.1964 TOB 11:55 Patiala C1/125 
Male DOB 28.02.1959 TOB 10:30 Nagpur GI/177 
Male DOB 27.02.1974 TOB 09:30 Allahabad W1/Il LM 


ANRYON 


Mars in 2" house 
For Taurus Ascendant 


Placement of Mars in the 2" house in Gemini, for ‘Taurus ascendant, 
gives rise to effective Kuja dosha. Here, Mars happens to be a Maarkesh 
in a way, as it owns 7" & 12” house and joins inimical sign Gemini. 
Here, Mars aspects 5h 8" & 9* houses and curtails conjugal bliss, 
marital harmony, mutual intimacy and understanding, to a considerable 
extent. This position of Mars may also bring death of spouse early in 
life, as this is 8* from 7" house and 7" from 8*. 


Illustration no. 4.2.3 Horosope no. 33 


She was born in Taurus ascendant with Mars in 2"™ in association with 
2™ & 5* lord Mercury and the ascendant lord Venus. Mars obtains 
navamsa of Venus and is inimical to Mercury, which is associated with 
Mars and is its dispositor as well. She was married on 16.2.97 with a 
computer engineer who did MBA after marriage and is now teaching 
in a professional institute. Husband has handsome earning but does not 
give even a penny to his wife. She was therefore forced to earn money 
to meet her expenses through service from 10.5.99. It was a very difficult 
time for her when she delivered a male child on 16.3.200] and no one 
from her in-law’s place took care of her. She is dejected due to 
recalcitrant nature of her husband. On many occasions even a slip of 


KUJA DOSHA DUE TO MARS IN THE SECOND HOUSE 211 


Illustration No. 4.2.3 Horoscope No.33 

Born on 10.6.1972 at 04:58:00 hrs. 

Place: Lucknow Long 80:56 E Lat. 26:51 N 
Balance of Mahadasha of Sun 2Y 4M 23 D 


: PLANETARY DEGREES 


Asc 51: 16 : 53 
Sun 55 : 42 : 46 
Moon 34:40:17 
Mars 84 : 39 : 45 
Mercury 61 : 57 : 49 
Jupiter 251: 49 : 30R 
Venus 67 : 31 :32R 
Saturn 47 : 43 : 50 
Rahu 273 : 02 : 15 


Ketn 93:02: 15 


212 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


her tongue resulted into physical hits and tortures. She wants to leave 
her life partner forever, as it is becoming almost impossible for her to 
live together with her in-laws. We mean to say that the placement of 
Mars in the 2nd house caused many tortures, rifts & misunderstandings 
leading to a miserable married life and aversion towards emotions of love 
and belonging. 


Illustration no. 4.2.4 Horosope no. 34 


The native is a successful & rich contractor. He was born in Taurus 
ascendant with the placement of Mars in 2nd house under the mutual 
aspect with Saturn. 2nd house is adversely afflicted due to placement of 
Sun & Mars & aspect of Saturn over these. The ascendant is also weak 
as its lord Venus joins the 12" house. However, the native was married 
on 20.2.75. Wife expired on 174.82 in a fire accident caused due to a 
stove. He had two children, one son and one daughter, from her. The 
native couldn't wait even for one year & remarried on 18.7.82. 


Observation 2.2 


Placement of Mars in Gemini in 2na house, for Taurus ascendant, gives 
tise to effective Kuja dosha. This disposition of Mars may even cause 
death of the life partner due to any accident. Family life becomes 
miserable & financial aspect is also below par. On many occasions 
conjugal bliss is absent due to disturbance in financial matters. Other 
family members like in-laws also interfere in the married life of the 
couple causing various adversities & problems. 

We also considered many other birth charts to reach at the above 
observation, some of which are being given below for the benefit of the 
readers. 


1. Male DOB 24.06.1953 TOB 54/28  Sultanpur G/137 
Ishta 
2. Male DOB 16.09.1930 TOB 38/43/30 Bareilly 1/222 
Ishta 
Male DOB 09.09.1962 TOB 22:35 — Sitapur G/374 
Male DOB 04.08.1951 TOB 02:20 Bombay G1/23 
Female DOB 10.04.1976 TOB 07:45 Gorakhpur Q1/98 
Female DOB 04.03.1976 TOB 11:30 Lucknow QI1/218 
Female DOB 02.12.1960 TOB 26/40 Kanpur K/52 
Ishta 
8. Female DOB 02.05.1976 TOB 03:25 Delhi K/S7 


NDWRY 


KUJA DOSHA DUE TO MARS IN THE SECOND HOUSE 213 


Illustration No. 4.2.4 Horoscope No34 

Bom on 30.6.1953 at 03:17:00 hrs. 

Place: Dehradun Long 80:54 E Lat. 26:50 N 
Balance of Mahadasha of Moon 1Y 8M 24D 


> PLANETARY DEGREES 


Asc 45 : 28 : 54 
Sun 74:36:21 
Moon 291 :00:55 
Mars 77:15:15 
Mercury 99 : 59 : 28 
Jupiter 48 : 39 : 08 
Venus 29:06: 13 
Saturn 177:22 : 19 

331 

231 


214 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


Mars in 2 house 
For Gemini Ascendant 


Placement of Mars in Cancer in the 2™ house, in Gemini ascendant, gives 
rise to effective Kuja dosha. Here, Mars is the lord of 11" & 6" houses 
and if it is placed in the 2"4 house in the sign of debilitation, in Cancer, 
it will spoil the marital prospects and happiness. Peculiar marriage takes 
place under the influence of such a Mars. Here, 6* lord Mars aspects 
the 5" house in addition to 8" & 9" houses. Accidents, operations 8c 
blood troubles are quite likely to be there. 


Illustration no. 4.2.5 Horosope no. 35 


She was married on 20.9.90 with her so-called uncle who was old enough 
to be her father. In fact, she was married with a person who was a close 
friend of his father and had developed relations with her. On one fine 
morming she ran away with her ‘uncle' and married him. Due to 
ownership of 6" & aspect on 8" by Mars, her heart was operated on 
17688 and her one breast was removed. Soon after marriage she 
suffered physical dissatisfaction and frustration on that account as her 
husband was nearly 50 years old. She had no way out except to live with 
her husband and lead a miserable and unhappy married life. In navamsa 
Mars join the 7 house. The dispositor of Mars, Moon, obtains the 
navamsa of its debilitation. Mercury, Jupiter & Moon have obtained the 
navamsa of debilitation in the chart. The 7" lord Jupiter falls in 12* 
house under retrograde motion in inimical sign. This shows the possi- 
bilities of physical distance or separation with her husband. 


Illustration no. 4.2.6 Horosope no. 36 


This horoscope belongs to the daughter of a very famous Hindi author. 
She is professor in Sanskrit. Mars joins the 2™ house in association with 
Satum & 2™ lord Moon falls in the 6" house in debilitation. There is 
mutual exchange between Mars & Moon and both are debilitated. She 
was born is Jyeshtha nakshatra. Lord of 7" Jupiter, falls in the 6" house 
over the axis of nodes. This is an adverse placement for marital 
happiness. She has not been married so far, even at the age of 57 years, 
in spite of her few affairs of love Sc liking. She was burnt in a fire 
accident at 4 years of age. The left eye was operated during childhood. 
She was seriously involved somewhere between Nov. 77 to Jan. 87 and 
the affair ended into mishap. She suffered serious problems in her 
backbone in Nov. 82 on Deepawali. Thus she is leading an unhappy life, 


KUJA DOSHA DUE TO MARS IN THE SECOND HOUSE 215 


Illustration No. 4.2.6 Horoscope No. 35 
Born on 4.10.1964 at 0:05:00 hrs. 
Place: Lucknow Long 80:56 E Lat. 26:51 N 
Balance of Mahadasha of Venus 4Y 6M 13D 
LAGNA 
DEGREES 
88: 37 | 
167; 12 ' 
Moon 143 : 38 
Mars 107 : 52 
Mercury 158 : 0 
Jupiter 32:9R 
Venus 124 : 23 
Saturn 305 : 41 R 
Rahu 63 2 16 
Ketu 243 «16 


NAVAMSA 


216 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


Illustration No. 4.2.6 Horoscope No. 36 

Born on 08.10.1947 at 21:45:00 hrs. 

Place: Allahabad Long 81:50 E Lat. 25:57 
Balance of Mahadasha of « Saturn 12Y 7M 21D 


PLANETARY DEGREES 


Asc 61 : 05 :37 
Sun 171 : 24 :29 
Moon 97 : 47 :39 
Mars 101: 12 :24 
Mercury 195 : 46 :14 
Jupiter 213 : 47 :53 
Venus 180 : 46 :00 

116 : 45 :04 

31 : 03 :53 

211 : 03 :53 


KuJA_ DOSHA DUE TO MARS IN THE SECOND HOUSE 27 


now realising that she has done a blunder by remaining single, as she 
remains absolutely lonely, proceeding towards the old age rapidly. 


Observation 3.2 


Placement of Mars in the 2™ house in Cancer gives rise to effective Kuja 
dosha. Generally, the marriage is very peculiar due to one or the other 
reason. Love affairs either fail or take place with the person of very 
different status or age. Health remains questionable. Operation, burns, 
accidents, etc. are quite possible. In few cases married life is smooth 
where Moon is associated with Mars & 7* lord Jupiter is well placed 
in quadrant or triangle or 7" house is well disposed. This position of 
Mars must be studied very carefully before reaching the final conclusion. 

We also considered many other birth charts to reach at the above 
observation, some of which are being given below for the benefit of the 
readers. 


Female DOB 13.04.1978 TOB 10:12 Lucknow C1/170 
Male DOB 03.08.1970 TOB 02:35 Chandigarh C1/254 
Male DOB 15.09.1964 TOB 23:40 Lucknow C1/297 
Female DOB 1901.1978 TOB 16:00 Lucknow Q1/262 
Male DOB 21.09.1949 TOB 00:30 Aligarh Q1/332 
Male DOB 18.06.1959 TOB 06:00 Bulandshahr R1/76 
Female DOB 08.10.1947 TOB 21:40 Allahabad  K/I1 


Mars in 2™ house 


NNW WN H 


For Cancer Ascendant 


Placement of Mars in Leo, for Cancer ascendant, in the 2"? house gives 
rise to ineffective Kuja dosha. Generally, Mars remains under control 
whenever it comes under the influence of Sun and does not exhibit evil 
results, until unless afflicted by other planets. Married life remains intact 
though minor conflicts and confusions cannot be ruled out. If Mars in 
2™4 house and its lord are further afflicted, family rifts, misunderstanding 
with in-laws & financial matters become questionable. For Cancer 
ascendant Mars is a yogakaraka planet, as it owns 5"" & 10" houses. 
Mostly such position of Mars makes one to earn money by his own 
endeavours. If Venus supports, one enters into love marriage but it is 
not at all essential that love will last between the couple even after 
marriage. 


218 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


Illustration no. 4.2.7 Horosope no. 37 


She was bom in Cancer ascendant with the placement of Mars in 2" 
house. Here, Mars is heavily afflicted because there is mutual aspect of 
Mars with Saturn who is tenanted in 8" house. 5" lord Mars & 7" lord 
Satu both aspect the 5" house & lagna lord Moon. There is mutual 
exchange between Sun & Mars. She is an officer in a bank. However, 
the 5* house is also aspected by 9* & 6* lord Jupiter, which resulted 
into love marriage with a very ordinary unsettled boy. She was blessed 
with two children, son & daughter. It will not be out of place to mention 
that she was bom in Jyeshtha nakshatra 4" pada. The 7" lord Saturn 
occupies the 8" house under the mutual aspect with Mars. Moon's major 
period is running from 14.6.200] to 14.6.2011!. During Moon-Mars dasa- 
bhukti she left her house in October 2002 and asked for permanent 
separation from 27.12.02. In fact, there were only minor charges against 
her husband, which were quiet insufficient for divorce. She was involved 
with someone secretly and that actually became the cause of separation. 
Even after two years she or her husband have not filed the case of divorce 
in the court of law, due to Jupiter's aspect on 7" & 5" house. In fact, 
this is a case where Mars is heavily afflicted in the 2" house and Moon 
is placed in Jyeshtha nakshatra under debilitation. The 7" lord is also 
afflicted. Therefore, her family life is spoiled. It's not Mars in the 2" 
house in Leo who should be held responsible for the marital discord in 
this case. 


Observation 4.2 


Placement of Mars in Leo, in the 2"4 house for Cancer ascendant, causes 
ineffective Kuja dosha. No serious disaster in the married life takes 
place. There are only minor disturbances due to in-laws but marriage 
remains intact without any serious disturbance. Mars happens to be a 
Yogakaraka for Cancer ascendant & does not give adverse result in Leo. 
This position of Mars tends one towards making love. 

Some of the few other horoscopes, which were taken for study, are 
given below: 
Male DOB 21.08.1957 TOB 03:47 Lucknow (67) 
Female DOB 1[5.07.196! TOB 07:00 Dehradun C1/53 
Female DOB 26.10.1949 TOB 23:50 Behror(Raj.) G/87 
Female DOB 17.09.1968 TOB 03:30 Mathura G/207 
Female DOB 16.06.1978 TOB 08:30 Lucknow QI/127 
Female DOB 16.06.1978 TOB 07:30 Lucknow Q1/139 
Female DOB 07.02.1980 TOB 17:59 Indore Q1/146 
Female DOB 20.04.1965 TOB 12:45 Kanpur QI/153 


oN nAUaRWN 


KUJA DOSHA DUE TO MARS IN THE SECOND HOUSE 219 


Illustration No. 4.2.7 
Born on 20.04.1965 
Place: Kanpur 
Balance of Mahadasha of 


Horoscope No. 37 

at 12:45:00 hrs. 

Long 80:19 E Lat. 26:27 N 
Mercury 3Y 1M 25D 


~ PLANETARY DEGREES 


Mercury 
Jupiter 
Venus 
Saturn 
Rahu 
Ketu 
NAVAMSA 


110 : 02 : 29 
06 : 37 : 28 
237 : 31:09 
135: 21: 14 
348 : 31.47 R 
36 : 07 : 32 
08 : 43 : 50 
320 : 13 + 35 
51 : 09 : 08 
231 : 09 : 08 


220 AN INSIGHT INIO KUJA DOSHA 


Mars in 2™ house 
For Leo Ascendant 


Placement of Mars in Virgo, in the 2™4 house, gives rise to effective Kuja 
dosha. Family life remains disturbed due to one or the other reasons. 
Here, Mars is the lord of 4* 8c 9* houses, hence a yogakarka, but on 
house is inimical for Mars. Hence, it gives rise to various adversities, 
such as differences, delay, distances, dejection, divorce, distress, despair, 
disappointment, disagreement and depression. 


Illustration no. 4.2.8 Horosope no. 38 


She was married on 21.5.67. Her husband was an electrical engineer in 
N.TP.C. After 4 years of marriage some where in Dec.9] her husband 
got involved with a women named Hansa Nandi and he became very 
serious soon thereafter. She came to know about the involvement of her 
husband in Jan. 93 when he was completely exposed and accepted his 
affair with her. He decided and declared on 8.10.95 that he would live 
with Hansa Nandi only and not with her. This resulted into mutual 
divorce after some time. Yogakarka Mars occupies the 2™ house with 
debilitated Venus under the adverse aspect of Saturn. Lagna & its lord 
Sun are hemmed between Saturn & Mars which has made her life most 
problematic. 7"" & 2" lords, Satu & Mercury, occupy the 12* house 
in inimical sign Cancer and that is a clear indication of divorce. 

In another case, placement of Mars in Virgo caused the assassination 
of the native due to certain involvement even after two marriages. This 
disposition of Mars causes late marriage, which has been observed in 
many cases. The above native was married during 31" year of age. 
Another native was married at 40* years of age & suffered serious eye 
complaint. Married life is unhappy, generally, and may even end into 
separation, if 7* lord is adversely placed in 12” or 8" house. The life 
of husband is curtailed. 


Illustration no. 4.2.9 Horosope no. 39 


A lecturer working in Aligarh University was married on 17.2.95 at 45 
years of age as Mars was placed in 2" house in Virgo in association 
with Ketu. She suffered the miserable married life of 5 months as her 
husband was a big fraud and had married her in spite of her other 4 
marriages. Divorce took place on 2.7.95. 


KUJA DOSHA DUE TO MARS IN THE SECOND HOUSE 221 


Illustration No. 4.2.8 Horoscope No. 38 

Bom on 19.8.1946 at 6:39:23 hrs. 

Place: Shahjahanpur Long 79:55 E Lat. 27:53 N 
Balance of Mahadasha of Venus 11Y 2M 19D 


Mercury 104: 03: 19 
Jupiter 180 : O1 : 24 
Venus 167 : 24: 07 
Saturn 98 : 57: 30 


Rahu 55 : 06: 22 


222 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


Illustration No. 4.2.9 Horoscope No. 39 

Bom on 22.6.1950 at 10:46:48 hrs. 

Place: Aligarh Long 78:04 E Lat. 27:54 N 

Balance of Mahadasha of Venus 3Y 3M 26D 
LAGNA 


PLANETARY DEGREES 


Asc 138 : 56: 17 
Sun 67 : 03 : 36 
Moon 144 ; 25: 24 
Mars 160 : 56: 30 
Mercury 47 . 33: 03 
Jupiter 314: 15: Ol 
Venus 30: 42 : 53 
Satur 140: 37: 1 
Rahu 339 : 58 : 41 


Ketu 159 : 58 : 41 


KUJA DOSHA DUE TO MARS IN THE SECOND HOUSE 223 


Observation 5.2 


Mars in Virgo in the 2" house, for Leo ascendant, gives rise to effective 
Kuja dosha. Married life suffers & conjugal bliss is absent. Divorce or 
death cannot be ruled out if the lord of 7" house is placed in trikas. 
Marriage is delayed or obstructed. 

We also considered many other birth charts to reach at the above 
observation, some of which are being given below for the benefit of the 
readers. 

Female DOB 19.08.1946 TOB 06:39:23 Shahjahanpur C 1/331 
Female DOB 24.09.1944 TOB 03:50 Varanasi W1/39 
Female DOB 21.08.1978 TOB 05:50 Varanasi W 1/63 
Female DOB 09.07.1950 TOB 09:47. Lucknow R1/70 
Male DOB 24.08.1963 TOB 06:05 Lucknow R1/88 
Female DOB 14.10.1957 TOB 04:25 Nairobi R1/112 


Mars in 2"! house 


AunFwWNnN- 


For Virgo Ascendant 


Placement of Mars in Libra in the 2™ house, for Virgo ascendant, causes 
effective Kuja dosha. Here, Mars is the 8* & 3" lord and joins the sign 
of Venus in 2". This may even cause the death of the life partner or 
separation or otherwise. One suffers from miserable married life. There 
is lot of intervention and interference of family members in the married 
life of the native.' It has also been observed that something abnormal with 
life partner is there. 


Illustration no. 4.2.10 Horosope no. 40 


This horoscope belongs to a beautiful girl who was very proud of her 
femininity. She was engaged in a good job and had a strong determination 
that she would never use feminism for any kind of prosperity, job, 
occupation, promotion or for any kind of success in life. Presence of 
7* lord Jupiter in the ascendant with the aspect of exalted Venus had 
made her extremely attractive as far as physical & facial charm is 
concerned. She was married on 10.10.97 with a boy who was a classmate 
of her in primary classes. Soon after marriage she came to know that 
her husband was doing nothing and used to take strong steroids for 
mental balance. He was a sex maniac. Every time he desired to be 
involved in sensual acts with her, irrespective of time, i. e. day, noon, 
evening, morning or night. One day she could see the prescription of 
a doctor & was shocked to know that he was suffering from peculiar 


224 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


Illustration No. 4.2.10 
Born on 26.1.1969 
Place: Shimla 
Balance of Mahadasha of 


Horoscope No. 40 

at 23:33:19 hrs. 

Long 77:10 E Lat. 31:06 N 
Sun SY 1M 2D 


Mars 
Mercury 
Jupiter 
Venus 


KUJA DOSHA DUE TO MARS IN THE SECOND HOUSE 225 


mental disease. It was not possible for her even to talk on phone even 
to her family members. Her parents and other family members were not 
allowed to meet her. In other words, she was confined in the house. It 
became impossible for her to go anywhere out of that house. On one 
fine morning when everybody was sleeping, she came out through a 
ventilator with the help of a rope made of sarees. She was not even 
wearing a sleeper at that moment and did not have even a penny with 
her. However, she just kept on running as long as she could, to find 
someone for help. She told her story to a poor man who assisted her 
in selling one of her gold rings. Anyway, she came back to her home 
after few days. There had been a police search before her arrival, which 
she came to know after reaching the parent's place. It is a long story 
of tragedy. Parents were shocked to see her as she had lost more than 
18 kg. of her weight in just 14 days. Ultimately, she was successful in 
getting divorce on 26.8.99. Mars occupies Libra & owns 3" & 8* houses. 
However, the 7" house is also afflicted heavily due to placement of Rahu, 
Satum & Venus indicating early divorce. Here, the /agna lord Mercury 
is retrograde in the 5" house & is aspected by malefic Mars. Mars also 
lends its aspect over Moon in 8" house. Mutual aspect of Moon and 
Mars, identical to 8" & 24 house, is also adverse. The 7" lord Jupiter 
aspects the 7™ house from ascendant, which was not enough to save the 
divorce. 

In another case of Mars in Libra in 2"’, the marriage took place with 
a very handsome 8c smart captain in army who was impotent, whereas 
the native had intense desire of physical gratification. This resulted in 
all possible differences between the two. In one more case of the same 
position of Mars, husband committed suicide. Thus, this is an adverse 
disposition of Mars. 


Observation 6.2 


If Mars occupies the 2™ house in Libra, married life will be unhappy 
either due to divorce, death of life partner or due to any other physical 
problem of the spouse. The wife may be fraud or sex maniac. Similarly, 
the husband may suffer from impotency or have intense sex desire. The 
native will be involved with persons other than spouse. This is really 
most undesirable placement of Mars and gives rise to effective & strong 
Kuja dosha. 

We also considered many other birth charts to reach at the above 
observation, some of which are being given below for the benefit of the 
readers. 


226 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


Female DOB 05.08.1967 TOB 09:20 Sitapur (85) 
Female DOB 19.07.1952 TOB 11:23 Hardoi (86) 
Female DOB 22.06.1950 TOB 10:46:48 Aligarh CI/12 
Female DOB 26.01.1969 TOB 23:33:19 Shimla C1/199 
Female DOB 17.01.1937 TOB 23:00 Ferozabad C1/114 
Male DOB 27.05.1952 TOB 14:40 Gonda Q1/32 
Male DOB 09.02.1952 TOB 21:00 Rajgarh = Q1/33 


TAWA LDH 


Mars in 2™ house 
For Libra Ascendant 


Placement of Mars in the 24 honse in Scorpio, for Libra ascendant, gives 
rise to ineffective Kuja dosha as far as happiness and prosperity of 
married life is concerned. Mars happens to be a yogakaraka for Libra 
ascendant, it does not harm the matters regarding the second honse. 
Conjugal bliss remains undisturbed if the 7* honse is well disposed. 
However, here the 7" lord Mars falls in fixed, watery and aggressive 
sign therefore, hindrances arise in the settkement of the marriage due to 
which the marriage is mostly delayed. In such cases Mars lends its aspect 
over the 5* house in Aquarins, so many times problems regarding 
children give rise to serions setback. 


. 


Illustration no. 4.2.11 Horosope no. 41 


She was born in Libra ascendant and the /agna lord Venns occnpies the 
7* honse and is aspected by Jupiter. The aspect of Venus on lagna, both 
in Rashi and navamsa, made her extremely attractive and charming. Her 
appearance was a point of conversation among the stndents of University 
and ontside. Everyone aspired to see or to talk to her. She also got 
involved with innnmerable males as far as love and liking was concerned. 
The scandal of her affair with her brother-in-law created havoc in the 
family of her sister. Her beauty was sweet poison for others that resulted 
into heart breaks of a few. She was mairied in November 1967 after a 
long courtship in a Jain family, though she was a Brahmin girl. Her 
married life was smooth except for some minor differences. She was 
blessed with one daughter and one son, thongh both of them created lots 
of problem for her dne to their disobedience and arrogance. She died 
on 4.12.1991 after a prolonged illness of cancer. 


Observation 7.2 


Placement of Mars in the second honse in Scorpio, for Libra ascendant, 
causes ineffective Kuja dosha but it often delays the marriage. In many 


KUJA DOSHA DUE TO MARS IN THE SECOND HOUSE 227 


Illustration No. 4.2.11 Horoscope No. 41 

Born on 18.3.1937 at 21:02:00 hrs. 

Place: Bareily Long 79:24 E Lat. 28:20 N 

Balance of Mahadasha of Mars 6Y 9M 19D 
LAGNA 


DEGREES 
190: 27: 18 
334 : 38: 46 
53 : 43: 16 
Mars 218 : 36: 37 
Mercury 328 : 19: 06 
Jupiter 269 : 28: 51 
Venus Il: 15: 17 
Saturn 332 : 32: 53 
Rahu 235 : 52: 15 


Ketu 55 952: 15 


228 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


cases love and inter-caste alliances also take place. Married life is 
generally smooth or happy. The only point of worry remains the aspect 
of children in the form of their negative attitude, ill temperament, 
disobedience, arrogance and disrespectful approach. This is due to the 
aspect of Mars over the St house. This is also an adverse combination 
for loss of husband though in advance age. 

We also considered many other birth charts to reach at the above 
observation, some of which are being given below for the benefit of the 
readers. 


Female DOB 14.12.1944 TOB 04:13 Kanpur = (74) 
Male DOB 24.01.1956 TOB 09:45:30 Lucknow (78) 
Female DOB 12.07.1950 TOB 14:25 Jhansi =, C1/103 
Female DOB 19.01.1958 TOB 12:00 Lucknow WI/S1 
Night 
Male DOB 27.02.1969 TOB 22:45 Patna W1/182 
Male DOB 02.05.1969 TOB 18:05 Lucknow QI/19 
Male DOB 19.12.1976 TOB 03:43 Delhi Q1/106 
Male DOB 26.09.1982 TOB 09:05 Lucknow Q1/240 


eye 


WIAY 


Mars in 2na house 
For Scorpio Ascendant 


Placement of Mars in the second house in Sagittarius, for Scorpio 
ascendant, causes effective Kuja dosha. Here, the Mars is the lord of 
ascendant and the 6* house and if it is placed in the 2nd house the death 
of the partner is likely in the middle age. The partner suffers from various 
diseases from time to time. Here the 7" lord Mars is placed in the 8n 
house, if reckoned from the 7m house and that indicates problems 
regarding the health of life partner. 


Illustration no. 4.2.12 Horosope no. 42 


The native is a famous homoeopathic physician of Lucknow. He was 
born in Scorpio ascendant with Mars in the 2na house aspected by 2nd 
lord Jupiter, from the 8'" house. The native was married with a decent 
girl around the age of 17. His wife was extremely loyal and fully 
dedicated to him. However, she suffered from various physical ailments 
such as inflammation in the kidney and the problems of heart. She 
ultimately died of some undiagnosed disease on 4.7.1998. 


KUJA DOSHA DUETO MARS IN THE SECOND HOUSE 229 


Illustration No. 4.2.12 Horoscope No. 42 

Bom on 21.02.1943 at 02:31:00 hrs. 

Place: Azamgarh Long 79:24 E Lat. 28:20 N 
Balance of Mahadasha of Sun 17Y 7M MD 


PLANETARY DEGREES 


Asc 225 : 44 : 52 
Sun 308 : 15 : 18 
Moon 134 :55 :0 
Mars 265 : 16 : 47 
Mercury 281 : 58 : 28 
Jupiter 82:43 :02R 
Venus 331 : 09 : 30 
Saturn 42 : 43 : 28 
Rahu 121 : 51 : 19 


Ketu 301 : 51 : 19 


RAH 
JUP 
MER 


230 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA. 


Observation 8.2 


Placement of Mars in the second house in Sagittarius for Scorpio 
ascendant, causes effective Kuja dosha. The partner of the native suffers 
from various ailment and dies in the middle age, as per our humble 
observation. Married life is just average if not happy. This is also an 
adverse disposition of Mars for loss of money due to theft, deceit or 
misplaced confidence. The native suffers due to relations and close 
relatives. 

We also considered many other birth charts to reach at the above 
observation, some of which are being given below for the benefit of the 
readers. 


1.Male DOB 28.12.1974 TOB 03:31:39 Kanpur C1/19 
2. Female DOB 27.09.1969 TOB 11:10 Muzaffarnagar C1/24 
3. Female DOB 29.11.1982 TOB 07:50 — Allahabad C1/232 
4. Female DOB 17.10.1969 TOB 10:10 Nanpara G1/5S0 
5. Female DOB 12.09.1954 TOB 11:24 — Varanasi G1/85 
6. Male DOB 15.02.1973 TOB 02:35 Kanpur W1/38 
7, Female DOB 07.03.1956 TOB 01:30 Saharnpur W1/132 
8. Male DOB 30.01.1958 TOB 03:39 Saharanput W1/144 


Mars in 2" honse 
For Sagittarius Ascendant 


Placement of Mars in the 2" house in the sign of exaltation, Capricorn, 
for Sagittarius ascendant, gives rise to ineffective Kuja dosha. Generally 
the marital life is smooth and full of feeling of belonging but the native 
predominates over the spouse. Here, Mars is the lord of 12* and the 5m 
houses and its placement in the 2" house generally makes the native 
financially sound. 


Illustration no. 4.2.13 Horosope no. 43 


A careful examination of the horoscope reveals that Mars, Jupiter and 
Saturn are exalted in the birth chart. Venus occupies the own sign Libra 
and obtains own navamsa. Sun obtains own navamsa. Thus this appears 
to be a potent horoscope. !1* house contains 11* and 6* lord Venus, 
2™ & 3° Jord Saturn, and 7* &10* lord Mercury giving rise to strong 
Vasumati yoga that too formed in the most auspicious house 1. e. the 
11* house. He was married with a very ordinary girl on 21.11.1981 and 


KUJA DOSHA DUETO MARS IN THE SECOND HOUSE 231 


Illustration No. 4.12.13 Horoscope No. 43 

Bom on 21.11.1954 at 08:49:00 hrs. 

Place: Allahabad Long 81:50 E Lat. 25:57 N 

Balance of Mahadasha of Moon 4Y 4M 28D 
LAGNA 


Asc 245 : 35 
Sun 215 : 02 
Moon 167 ; 27 
Mars 297 : 28 
Mercury 197 : 09 
Jupiter 96: 40R 
Venus 205 : 44R 
Satur 200 : 46 
Rahu 252 : 21 


Ketu 74:21 


232 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


was blessed with two daughters and two sons. One of his sons died at 
the age of 3 months as he had a hole in his heart. One of his daughters, 
who was extremely beautiful and charming, died on 13.12.1999 due to 
a fire accident which occurred at home. 


Observation 9.2 


Placement of Mars in the 2" house in the sign of exaltation Capricorn, 
for Sagittarius ascendant, gives rise to ineffective Kuja dosha. The 
marital life remains at par. The native has control over spouse. Finan- 
cially the native is well off. This position of Mars often creates problem 
regarding future prospects of children. 


Some of the few other horoscopes, which were taken for study, are 
given below: 


. Female DOB 04.12.1967 TOB 07:55 Bareilly (36) 
.Male DOB 03.04.1958 TOB 01:31:55 Kathmandn (123) 
.Male DOB 21.02.1965 TOB 06:52 Jaipur C1/25 
Male DOB 18.04.1973 TOB 23:55 Barabanki C1/69 
Male DOB 28.01.1964 TOB 04:43 Allahabad = C1/136 
.Male DOB 04.09.1971 TOB 02:00 Allahabad 1/356 
Male DOB 04.09.1971 TOB 03:20 Aligarh GI/131 


Mars iu !2"? house 


For Capricorn Ascendant 


Placement of Mars in the 2™ house in Aquarius, for Capricorn ascendant, 
generally makes one financially sound and gives rise to ineffective Kuja 
dosha. Family disturbances may arise due to in-laws. This is a good 
disposition for landed property. 


Illustration no. 4.2.14 Horosope no. 44 


The native is a civil contractor and was married with an exceptionally 
beautiful girl from Thailand. He has been blessed with two daughters. 
Native is living with his wife happily leaving aside minor squabbles with 
his parents-in-law. The native is born in Capricorn ascendant. The ||" 
and 4" Jord Mars joins the 2"! house in association with 2" lord Saturn. 
The conjunction of Mars and Saturn in the 2"™ house has only created 
minor disturbances in his marital life and has made the native very rich. 
He owns a lot of landed property and jewelry. 


KuéA DOSHA DUE TO MARS IN THE SECOND HOUSE 233 


Illustration No. 4.2.14 Horoscope No. 44 

Bom on 19.3.1964 at 3:19:00 hrs. 

Place: Pratapgarh Long 81:57 E Lat. 25:52 N 

Balance of Mahadasha of Sun OY 3M 29D 
LAGNA 


~ PLANETARY DEGREES 


Asc 280 : Il 
Sun 334 : 58 
Moon 39 : 15 
Mars 328 : 23 
Mercury 340 : 28 
Jupiter 0: 54 
Venus 19 : 23 
Satur 306 : 4 
Rahu 73 : 52 
Ketu 253 : 52 


234 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


Observation 10.2 


Placement of Mars in the 2°’ house in Aquarius gives rise to ineffective 
Kuja dosha and married life remains happy and prosperous. 

Some of the few other horoscopes, which were taken for study, are 
given below: 


Male DOB 31.5.1973 TOB 23:20 Rai Bareilly G/120 


Male DOB 19.05.1941 TOB 00:09 Srinagar Q1/312 
Female DOB 29.03.1977 TOB 02:45 Mysore S1/5 


Mars in 2" house 


I. 

2. Male DOB 195.1973 TOB 23:15 Agra C1/290 
3. Male DOB 264.1943 TOB 01:30 South Africa C1/336 
4. Female DOB 17.05.1973 TOB 23:16 Jhansi Q1/6 
5. 

6. 


For Aquarius Ascendant 


Placement of Mars in the 2"4 house in Pisces, for Aquarius ascendant, 
gives rise to effective Kuja dosha. Marriage is obstructed or delayed. 
For females this is an adverse disposition of Mars and it may even result 
into accident of husband or self. However, this is an encouraging position 
of Mars for all professional aspects. Mars is the lord of 3" and 10* house 
and happens to be anspicious for all professional and financial aspects. 


Illustration no. 4.2.15 Horosope no. 45 


The native, the son of a famous income tax lawyer of Lucknow, is a 
practising chartered accountant. He was married on 7.3.2002 at the age 
of 31 years and has been blessed with a son. The father of the native 
expired on 2.6.2002 at 55yrs. of age and the native met with a serious 
accident on 14.5.2004 cansing many fractures in the body, particularly 
in legs. His married life is also disturbed due to family members, as 
they repeatedly curse his wife for bringing bad luck for the family. This 
often results in harsh discussions causing tensions and disputes with his 
wife. 


Observation 11.2 


Placement of Mars in the 2" house in Pisces, for Aquarius ascendant, 
gives rise to effective Kuja dosha. This position of Mars is bad for 
the health or the life span of the life partner. Family disturbances, 
tensions, and distress are likely. However professional and financial 
aspects will be sound. 


KUJA DOSHA DUE TO MARS IN THE SECOND HOUSE 235 


Illustration No. 4.2.15 ; Horoscope No. 45 

Born on 22.12.1971 at 10:40:00 hrs. 

Place: Lucknow Long 80:56 E Lat. 26:51 N 

Balance of Mahadasha of * Mars 3Y 7M 17D 
LAGNA 


DEGREES 

327 : 12 

246 : 13: 23 

299 : 43 : 23 

333 :37 : 41 
Mercury 228 :31:41R 
Jupiter 236 :41 : 30 
Venus 275 :3B: 12 
Saturn 37:32: 30R 
Rahu 282 : 16: 29 


Ketu 102 :16: 2 


236 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


Iilustration No. 4.2.16 Horoscope No. 46 

Bom on 29.9.1973 at 18:05:00 hrs. 

Place:: Lucknow Long 80:56 E Lat. 26:51 N 
Balance of Mahadasha of Rahu 2Y 3M 1D 


PLANETARY DEGREES 


Asc 347: 19 : 41 
Sun 162 : 43 : 36 
Moon 198 : 19-: 46 
Mars 15:05 :40R 
Mercury 181 : 43 * 56 
Jupiter 278 : 47 : 46 
Venus 205: 16: 41 
Saturn 70:58 : 14 
Rahu 249 : 02 : 38 
Ketu 69 : 02 : 38 


KUJA DOSHA DUE TO MARS IN THE SECOND HOUSE 237 


Some of the other birth charts, which were also examined to arrive 
at the above conclusion, have the following details: 
1. Male DOB 02.06.1960 TOB 10:09:35 Orai Q1/130 
2. Female DOB 12.03.1968 TOB 06:20 Ferozabad RI/115 


Mars in 2na house 
For Pisces Ascendant 


Placement of Mars in the 2na house, for Pisces ascendant, gives rise to 
ineffective Kuja dosha. Mars is the lord of 2na and 9"" house and if placed 
in the 2nd in own sign Aries, makes the life happy and prosperous. 


Illustration no. 4.2.16 Horosope no. 46 


She is the daughter of a multimillionaire who brought good luck to her 
father and husband both. She was married in November 1998 with a tall, 
handsome MBA boy who had an average job. Soon after her marriage 
there has been an unbelievable progression in the career graph of her 
husband. He was “honoured and awarded as the best employee of his 
organisation and was sent to receive the award to Greece. She has been 
blessed with a son and is leading a very happy and prosperous life. In 
this horoscope Mars occupies Aries in the 2nd house and is aspected by 
Mercury, Venus and Moon. Lagna lord Jupiter also lends its aspect over 
the 7" house and Sun. In such a situation Mars does not harm or create 
any kind of problem in one's conjugal life. 


Observation 12.2: 


Mars if placed in the 2na house in Aries, for Pisces ascendant gives rise 
to ineffective Kuja dosha. One leads happy and prosperous married life. 

Some of the few other horoscopes, which were taken for study, are 
given below for the benefit of the readers: 


1, Male DOB 28.01.1942 TOB 09:50 Lucknow Ci/114 
2. Male DOB 27.12.1973 TOB 12:15 Lucknow C1/182 
3. Female DOB 16.02.1968 TOB 20:00 Ghazipur H/62 
4. Female DOB 28.04.1947 TOB 05:15 Dethi JAM 


weniavresdtac = -_arareastacrefrt cory 
wat f aurafas f\firtd aeta eta: weft wares 
Food, sleep, fear and procreation -all the four qualities are equally 
present in humans and animals, but the knowledge is one quality, 


which is possessed by human beings only. Therefore humans with- 
out knowledge are equivalent to animals. 


CHAPTER 4.3 


KUJA DOSHA DUE TO MARS 
IN THE FOURTH HOUSE 


ars , if placed in the 4* house, spoils the happiness of marriage. 

Generally, one is devoid of sweetness of home. Separation 

takes place due to this kind of Kuja dosha. This position of 
Mars is worst if present in the horoscope of females. We have mentioned 
in our earlier chapters, and sages have claimed, that placement of Mars 
in Aries or Scorpio in 4" house will not give rise to Kuja dosha. We 
will study it by examination of horoscopes. How far this principle comes 
true in the present time? If Mars joins the 4" house, individual is quite 
egoistic, proud or one is very high-headed. He or she is not able to carry 
out orders and fulfil desires of his or her life partners, if the desire is 
against his or her nature. Such persons must exercise great control over 
their negative temperament against their life partner. Suspicions and 
doubts are the biggest enemies of such natives who have Mars in the 
4* house. Many times girls become hysterical, panicky and irritating. 
Mostly Mars in the 4* house curtails the happiness of conjugal life and 
creates distances. It gives rise to serious differences in opinion, finally 
resulting into divorce and the. like. The result of the placement of Mars 
in the 4* house will be altogether different for various ascendants or may 
largely be modified due to conjunction, aspect or exchange of houses. 
We will discuss the results of Mars in the 4* house, with regard to 
marriage and married life, for various ascendants. Whenever Mars will 


KUJA DOSHA DUE TO MARS IN THE FOURTH HOUSE 239 


own 6th, 8th, or 12 house the adversity will be more severe. As per our 
humble observation relationship of the 4* house with 'trikas' is harmful 
for martial bliss. 


Mars in 4th house 


For Aries Ascendant 


For Aries ascendant, Mars is the lord of ascendant and 8* house, and 
joins its sign of debilitation in the 4'* house. Mars will lend its aspect 
over 7th, 10 and 11" houses and will harm the matters under the domain 
of these houses in one or the other manner. Here, Mars will own the 
8* house as well and aspect the 7m house, so widowhood cannot be ruled 
out. 


Illustration no. 4.3.1 Horoscope no. 47 


Here, Mars and Venus are conjoined in the 4* house and these planets 
own 7in and 8* houses respectively. The native was the wife of a 
renowned Bhagwat Vyas of Ayodhya who expired in the year 2000, 
suddenly at the age of 39 yr. Thus she suffered the curse of widowhood 
at an age of 35 yr. and has now to lead the life in isolation. Her husband 
was exceptionally bright, handsome and was blessed with an impressive 
personality. He was capable of attracting a large crowed during his 
discourses on Bhagwat. His speeches used to create abundant emotion 
and stir sentiments so much so that every one in the audience had tears 
in his eyes while hearing discourse on Bhagwat by him. Pt. Madhav 
Prasad ji was advised several preventive measures to reduce the adversity 
of the ‘Maarkesh'. Somehow he could not follow the advice due to his 
very busy schedule. However, in the horoscope of his wife, which we 
are here concerned with, placement of Mars in the 4th house denied 
conjugal happiness to her. She was leading an unhappy conjugal life 
pervaded with disappointment, distress, frustrations and tensions. 

It will not be out of place to discuss the horoscope of Pt. Madhav 
Pd. Dewedi (Bom on 6.11.61 at Ayodhya). He was bom in Cancer 
ascendant and all planets were placed in quadrants except Mars, who 
occupies the 5* house. He was blessed with 3 daughters and one son. 
He was not mangli but was married to a mangli girl and that became 
the cause of his death at 39 yr. of age. Kuja dosha of his wife was almost 
balanced in the horoscope of Pandit ji as Rahu joins the ascendant and 
Saturn joins the 7* with Ketu. Even then the tragedy of early death could 
not be nullified nor the married life be made happy. The lords of their 


240 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


Illustration No. 43.1 Horoscope No. 47 

Bom on 19.9.1964 at 08:04:00 hrs. 

Place Faizabad Long 82:08 E Lat. 26:46 N 
Blance of Mahadasha of Rahu 17Y 2M 5D 


PLANETARY DEGREES 


Asc 15 :41 : 57 
Sun 153 : 18 #40 
Moon 307 ; 16: 19 
Mars 99:20: 14 
Mercury 135 : 32 : 02 
Jupiter 32:43 :50R 
Venus 108 : 40 : 17 
Saturn 306 : 27 :55R 
Rahu 64:21 : 16 
Ketu 244; 21 : 16 


KUJA DOSHA DUETO MARS IN THE FOURTH HOUSE 241 


moon signs are Venus and Saturn who are quite friendly. There were 
sufficient matching points as per ashta kuta matching even then the 
tragedy of death occurred. That's why we have repeatedly said that 
matching of Kuja dosha and ashta kuta is not sufficient for happy and 
lasting married life. There are other factors like Bhava Melapak and 
Graha Melapak, which play vital role in matching charts, which we will 
be discussing in our forthcoming book "Match Making Mystiques". 
Panditji was passing through the major period of Saturn from 21.10.98 
to 24.10.2001. Satum was a Maarkesh for him as it owns 7'" and 8* 
house and joins the 7* house over the axis of Rahu and Ketu, with 6° 
and 9" Jord Jupiter. As soon as Saturn entered in Taurus on 7.6.2000 
this Maarkesh became quite active and fatal. It was Ashtam Shani who 
killed him soon after the commencement of its transit in 8". 


Observation 14 


For Aries ascendant, placement of Mars in the 4* house may cause 
separation or the death of life partner, if the 7* lord is also afflicted. 
This gives rise to unhappy married life as well. Thus, this position of 
Mars causes effective Kuja dosha. 

Following are the details of few birth charts, which were also studied 
to deduce the above conclusion: 


1. Male DOB 04.12.1964 TOB 16:32 Delhi 41/3070 

2. Female DOB 21.10.1955 TOB 22:30 Moradabad B1/53 

3. Male DOB 17.03.1931 TOB 41:20 Gorakhpur B1/91 
Istha 

4. Male DOB 22.09.1966 TOB 20:00 Allahabad B1/185 

5. Male DOB 19.09.1964 TOB 20:04 Faizabad  C1/122 

6. Male DOB 26.08.1953 TOB 22:23 Mumbai M/21 


Mars in 4" honse 

For Taurus Ascendant 

For Taurus ascendant, Mars is the lord of the 7* and the 12" houses, 
hence it happens to be a Maarkesh for the native, and if placed in the 
4* house in Leo it gives rise to separation or unhappy married life. The 


native may suffer from trouble connected with chest and brain. This 
Mars also delays the marriage. 


Illustration no. 4.3.2 Horoscope no. 48 


Here Mars occupies the 4* house in Leo and aspects the 7* house of 
its own. She is a doctor by profession who is at present working in 


242 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


Iilustration No. 43.2 Horoscope No. 48 

Born on 8.10.1966 at 19:57:00 hrs. 

Place: Lucknow Long 80:56 E Lat. 26:51 N 
Balance of Mahadasha of Satun 16Y 9M 18D 


PLANETARY DEGREES 


Asc 34 : 58 : 33 
Sun 171 : 27 : 59 
Moon 94 : 52.: 39 
Mars 124: 04: 56 
Mercury 190 : 31: 31 
Jupiter 98 : 08 : 36 
Venus 163 . 24: 31 
Saturn 331 :27: 14 
Rahu 23 : 16; 45 


Ketu 203 : 16 : 45 


KUJA DOSHA DUE TO MARS IN THE FOURTH HOUSE 243 


Singapore as a general physician. Her marriage was appreciably 
delayed as she was married on 9.2.2000 at the age of 34 years. Initially 
her husband used to behave very roughly with her. Later on she 
came to know that he was suffering from some mental disorder 
from an early age, which was kept secret. She moved for divorce in 
the court of law, when it became impossible for her to stay with her 
husband any more, and ultimately the court granted divorce in May 
2003. She hardly enjoyed any happiness of conjugal life, for which 
placement of Mars in the 4° house is responsible. For Taurus 
ascendant Saturn happens to be yogakaaraka and is placed in 
11" house under retrograde motion. Aspect of Saturn over Sun, 
the ascendant and ascendant lord Venus caused much delay in the 
marriage. 


Observation 2.4 


Mars in the 4th house, for Taurus ascendart, becomes a 'Maarkesh' 
and does not give good results regarding happiness of home. The 
native may not be able to enjoy the conjugal bliss. If Mars is 
afflicted by Rahu or other malefic planets, separation or divorce the is 
result. 

Following are the details of few birth charts, which were also studied 
to deduce the above conclusion: 

Male DOB 14.12.1965 TOB 19:17:57 Farukkhabad T/24, 
Male DOB 16.05.1965 TOB 06:05 —Biswan C1/75 
Male DOB 16.05.1965 TOB 06:05 = Biswan B1/156 
Male DOB 21.08.1957 TOB 23:30 Lucknow CI/57 


Female DOB 24.04.1950 TOB 06:48 Dehradun €1/329 
Male DOB 03.08.1961 TOB 01:00 Ambikapur C1/393 


Mars in 4" honse 


Aun Fwn > 


For Gemini Ascendant 


For Gemini ascendant, Mars is the lord of 11" and 6* houses and its 
placement in Virgo in 4" house does make one mangli. It is more adverse 
in the case of a female and not so for males. Here, Mars has a negative 
impact and should be considered as effective or active Kuja dosha. Virgo 
sign is inimical to Mars and the upachaya lord if placed in kendras spoils 
the results of that house. One may not seek divorce but will lead a very 
unhappy conjugal life. 


244 AN INSIGHT INIO KUJA DOSHA 


Illustration no. 4.3.3 Horoscope no. 49 


She is an alloy of beauty and intelligence. She was married to a very 
handsome and smart boy but her tendency to dictate, slowly created 
distance between the two. This, later on, resulted into tensions, frustra- 
tions and confrontations. She is leading a miserable married life though 
her husband also has the same complaint. They are at the verge of divorce 
after 17 years of marriage. They are blessed with a beautiful, intelligent 
and bright daughter of 16 years of age. They may have a mutual 
settlement of separation if both are able to sort out the problem of their 
child. Here, Mars and Mercury both occupy the 4" house whereas 7” 
lord Jupiter joins the 8" house with 8" lord Saturn under retrograde 
motion. The 7* house is also afflicted heavily and the 4h house, which 
indicates sweet home and happy family, contains upachaya lord Mars 
in inimical sign Virgo with inimical Mercury. Here Mars damaged her 
home. The husband is also mangli but the affliction of 7" house has 
resulted into this situation. She got married on 16.6.86 after a long 
courtship. Her husband inspired her for appearing in IAS and helped her 
a lot in this matter. Ultimately she was selected in I.R.AS. in 1988. 
Thereafter she decided to enter in family way and was blessed with a 
daughter on 23-11-88. Mars in 4* created havoc in her life and 
conjunction of Mercury with Mars made her very egoistic, overconfident 
and peevish, which has resulted into the present unpropitious situation 
that she is at the verge of divorce. 


Observation 3.4 


For Gemini ascendant, Mars plays quite an adverse role if placed in Virgo 
in the 4* house, as Mars is the lord of 6" and 11" house i.e. upachayas. 
Upachaya lords give adverse result wherever they are placed except in 
upachayas. Therefore the 4" house, which rules family pleasure and 
sweet home, gets afflicted for Gemini bom if Mars is tenanted here. 
Many times divorce is quité possible but conclusion should be drawn 
only after examining the 7 house as well. 

Following are the details of few birth charts, which were also studied 
to deduce the above conclusion: 


. Male DOB 28.07.1965 TOB 02:29 Lucknow DI/66 
Male DOB 07.07.1965 TOB 04:48 Kanpur BI/83 
Male DOB 06.11.1968 TOB 20.35 Kanpur B1/86 
Male DOB 13.10.1970 TOB 21:35 Lakhimpur B1/292 


Aw No 


KUJA DOSHA DUETO MARS IN THE FOURTH HOUSE 245 


Illustration No. 4.33 Horoscope No. 49 

Born on 5.9.1961 at 00:02:00 hrs. 

Place: Lucknow Long 80:56 E Lat. 26:51 N 
Balance of Mahadasha of Jupiter 1ISY 3M 27D 


PLANETARY DEGREES 


Asc 62: 14: 0 
Sun 138 : 38 : 57 
Moon 80:33: 47 
Mars 168 : 43 : 23 
Mercury 156: 24: 59 
Jupiter 274: 34: 20R 
Venus 103 : 59: 24 
Saturn 270: 20: 38R 
Rahu 123: 54: 49 


Ketu 303: 54: 49 


246 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


5. Male DOB 11.11.1968 TOB 08:45 Lucknow  B1/293 
6. Female DOB 05.09.1974 TOB 02:12 Lucknow 

Mars in 4* house 

For Cancer Ascendant 


For Cancer ascendant, Mars happens to be a Yogkaaraka planet, as it 
owns 10'"and 5" houses. Placement of Mars in the 4" house, for Cancer 
ascendant is identical to Libra sign. The relationship of Venus and Mars 
does not show a healthy conjugal life. This position of Mars may give 
high education, prosperity and immovable property but it curtails 
marital harmony and many times it brings strife. In various cases of 
Cancer ascendant we have observed unhealthy relationship between 
husband and wife, which might even lead to divorce. In one such case, 
as this was a bitter observation made on his horoscope, the native 
consulted many other astrologers. Most of them assured happy 
married life because Mars was Yogkaaraka and according to them it was 
not at all damaging. The native returned back to us only after final 
divorce and expressed his guilt and explained about all the sufferings, 
experienced by him due to non-acquiescence of our observations in this 
regard. 7 


Illustration no. 4.3.4 Horoscope no. 50 


The native is a scholar of science and was distinguished for his 
educational career and talent throughout. First of all his marriage was 
settled with a pretty and charming girl. Father of this boy demanded 
scooter and money in dowry. The engagement was broken due to 
negative repercussion in the family of the girl. Finally marriage of 
the native took place on 143.1994 with an ordinary girl. The girl 
was suffering from mental disorder. One day she ran away to her 
parent's place to never retum back and filed a case of divorce against 
the native. The native got married second time on 19.5.2001 with a 
most ordinary and 4 years elder girl. She also created havoc in the life 
of the native. She was sex maniac and demanded unbearable physical 
contacts. She was very authoritative and always tried to dictate her 
husband for all undertakings. Lot of defamation, conflict and confron- 
tation on various issues was there, as long she was living with the native. 
At present he is living all alone. Thus placement of even Yogkaaraka 
Mars created absence of family happiness and absolute loss of conjugal 
bliss. 


KUJA DOSHA DUE TO MARS IN THE FOURTH HOUSE 247 


Illustration No.4.3.4 Horoscope No. 50 

Born on 9.9.1965 at 02:22:00 hrs. 

Place: Gorakhpur Long 83:23 E Lat. 26:45 N 
Balance of Mahadasha of Mars 3Y 9M 27D 


- PLANETARY DEGREES 


Asc 98 : 49 : 55 
Sun 142 ; 35 : 58 
Moon 299 : 04: 14 
Mars 199 : 11 : 35 
Mercury 126 : 52 : 06 
Jupiter 65 : 19 : 28 
Venus 180 : 47 : 17 
Saturn 320 : 16 : 43 
Rahu 45 : 13 : 04 
Ketu 225 : 13 : 04 


NAVAMSA 


SAT 


248 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


Observation 4.4 


For Cancer ascendant, placement of Yogkaaraka Mars in the 4" house 
is quite effective and active to harm the native regarding family 
happiness. Generally, Mars in Libra in the 4" house brings divorce and 
if 4* lord Venus is also afflicted, adversity gets further enhanced. 

Following are the details of few birth charts, which were also studied 
to deduce the above conclusion: 


Male DOB 09.09.1965 TOB 02:22 Gorakhpur D1/99 
Female DOB 31.10.1968 TOB 23:32 Lucknow B1/137 
Male DOB 25.09.1962 TOB 03.00 Lakhimpur  B1/157 
Male DOB 07.09.1950 TOB 04:17 Mumbai B1/230 
Female DOB 11.01.1954 TOB 19:30 Shimla B1/373 
Female DOB 10.12.1972 TOB 22:05 Dehradun Q1/3 

Male DOB 20.10.1946 TOB 01:26 Ludhiana RI/I1 


NAWA LYNE 


Mars in 4" honse 
For Leo Ascendant 


For Leo ascendant, Mars happens to be a Yogkaaraka as it owns 4" and 
9" houses. Here, Mars joins 4* in Scorpio and give rise to Ruchchaka 
Mahapurusha Rajyoga. We have explained that Mars in 4" house does 
not cause effective Kuja dosha, if it falls in Aries or Scorpio. For Leo 
ascendant, Mars in 4* house is identical to Scorpio sign. Here, Mars 
gives rise to ineffective Kuja dosha. 


Illustration no. 4.3.5 Horoscope no. 51 


She was born in Leo ascendant and Yogkaaraka Mars joins the 4™ house 
in Scorpio. She got married with an IAS officer on 27.1.93. Here Mars 
is unaspected by any malefic in the 4" house. She is generally leading 
a happy married life and has been blessed with one son. It will not be 
out of place to mention that there had been proper matching in regard 
to balancing of Kuja dosha and high number of matching points in ashta 
kuta. 


Illustration no. 4.3.6 Horoscope no. 52 


She was married with a good-looking boy on 23.4.92. She was blessed 
with a daughter on 6.4.94. After a year or so she had enongh proof of 
adulterous nature of her husband. She was heavily shocked to know that 
her husband was not only fully involved with some other demoiselle but 


KUJA DOSHA DUE TO MARS IN THE FOURTH HOUSE 249 


Illustration No.4.3.5 Horoscope No. 51 

Bom on 9.8.1969 at 06:38:09 hrs. 

Place: Ranikhet Long 79:25 E Lat. 29:39 N 
Balance of Mahadasha of Rahu 17Y 4M 9D 


2 PLANETARY DEGREES 


Asc 125 : 08 : 46 
Sun 112: 50: 26 
Moon 67 ; 08 ; 29 
Mars 224 : 34: 39 
Mercury 129 : 47 : 30 
Jupiter 160 : 25 : 07 
Venus 73:12:01 
Saturn 15: 23: 04 
Rahu 328: 14: 155 


Ketu 148: 14; 15 


250 AN INSIGHT INIO KUJA DOSHA 


Illustration No. 4.3.6 

Born on 14.12.1974 
Place: Azamgarh 

Balance of Mahadasha of 


Mercury 
Jupiter 
Venus 
Saturn 
Rahu 


Ketu 


Horoscope No. 52 

at 22:35:00 hrs. 

Long 83:10 E Lat. 26:03 N 
Ketu 1Y 4M 27D 


DEGREES 


131 : 47: 32 
238 : 48: 58 
250: 38. 22 
219 : 097 24 
235 : 57: 46 
317: 14: 04 
248 : 09: 43 
83: 42: 08R 
226: 48: 47 


46: 48: 47 


KtiJ4 DOSHA DUE TO MARS IN THE FOURTH HOUSE 251 


had a daughter from her too. She filed the case of divorce in the court 
of law in 1996, and finally court granted permanent separation to her 
in the year 1999. Yogkaaraka Mars occupies the 4" house but here it 
is heavily afflicted as Mars is conjoined with its enemy, Mercury and 
Rahu. Mars aspects 8"" lord Jupiter and 7" house whereas 7” lord Satum 
aspects the gh house, the Moon and Venus in addition to ascendant. 
Jupiter in 7* is always adverse, which we have mentioned in our various 
articles. Affliction of 4" house, 4" Jord and mutual aspect between 7” 
lord Satum and 8" lord Jupiter resulted in separation after marriage. 


Observation 5.4 


For Leo ascendant, placement of Mars in the 4" honse in Scorpio does 
not cause effective Kuja dosha. Problems in marriage may arise only 
if Mars is heavily afflicted by inimical planets, is retrograde or aspected 
by malefics in addition to the affliction of 7" house. Otherwise, Mars 
gives rise to inactive Kuja dosha in 4" house, for Leo ascendant. 

Following are the details of few birth charts, which were also studied 
to deduce the above conclusion: 


Male DOB 19.11.1963 TOB 12:45 Lucknow B1/346 


1 

2. Male DOB 23.07.1969 TOB 4/30 Istha Lucknow C1/78 
3. Male DOB 08.10.1965 TOB 04:42:52 Mumbai CI/184 
4. Male DOB 28.01.1973 TOB 33/45 I[shta Amritsar Q1/128 
5. Female DOB 31.10.1978 TOB 02:20 Aligarh = Q.1/338 
6. Male DOB 10.03.1969 TOB 16:30 Lucknow §$1/95 
7. Male DOB 20.09.1982 TOB 04:00 Karnal $1/67 


Mars in 4° house 
For Virgo Ascendant 


For Virgo ascendant, Mars owns 3“ and 8* houses and falls in Sagittarins 
in 4" house. Here, Mars gives rise to effective Kuja dosha. Married life 
is miserable, conjugal bliss is absent and the spouse may leave the world 
in young age. 

Illustration no. 43.7 Horoscope no. 53 
This is the horoscope of an individual who was married during 1985. 
His wife was also in service. They were blessed with two children. But 


due to serious friction between them his wife separated in 1989 from 
the native who was an engineer. Unable to bear with the still grave 


252 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


Illustration No. 4.3.7 Horoscope No. 53 

Bom on 12.1958 at 22:10:00 hrs. 

Place: Delhi Long 77:13 E Lat. 28:39 N 
Balance of Mahadasha of Rahu 8Y 7M 24D 


PLANETARY DEGREES 


Asc 164: 17: 40 
Sun 289 ; 03 ; 23 
Moon 79:35:35 
Mars 245 : 13: 55 
Mercury 269 : 24: 57 
Jupiter 188 : 05: 10 
Venus 282 : 46 : 35 
Saturn 239 ; 26: 00 
Rahu 192 : 09 : 59 
Ketu 12:09; 59 


NAVAMSA 


KUJA DOSHA DUE TO MARS IN THE FOURTH HOUSE 253 


situation she ultimately committed suicide after separation. The native 
was remarried in May 1999 with a good-looking girl. But she too could 
not adjust with the native and ultimately divorced him after one year of 
marriage. The lord of 8" house occupies the 4* along with ascendant 
lord Mercury. The 4* house, Mars and Mercury are placed under 
Paapkartari Yoga. 2"' lord Jupiter is closely associated with Rahu in 
inimical sign Libra in 2" house resulting into the denial of marital 
happiness. Thus placement of Mars in 4" house in Sagittarius is quite 
adverse and denies conjugal bliss of a sweet home. 


Observation 6.4 


For Virgo ascendant, Mars in the 4" house in Sagittarius gives rise to 
strong and effective Kuja dosha. We believe, it is the one of the worst 
kind of mangli dosha and further adversity will be exhibited if Jupiter 
is adversely placed and afflicted. There may be denial of conjugal bliss, 
death of life partner or divorce. 

Following are the details of few birth charts, which were also studied 
to deduce the above conclusion: 


1. Male DOB 28.04.1959 TOB 16:45 Karnal 11/3095 
2. Male DOB 19.01.1945 TOB 22:25 Agra BI/276 
3. Male DOB 30.09.1970 TOB 07:25 Muzaffarnagar B1/370 
4. Male DOB 11.11.1967 TOB 04:30 Agra CI/191 
5. Male DOB 15.03.1941 TOB 18:47 Kanpur Cl/ 

6. Male DOB 09.10.1952 TOB 06.20 Jhansi C1/332 


Mars in 4" house 


For Libra Ascendant 


For Libra ascendant,. Mars is-exalted in the 4* house. The Mars is the 
lord of 2"¢ and 7" houses, thus it becomes a ‘maarkesh’. Here, Mars 
owns the 7* and aspects the 7" too. One generally gets a beautiful wife 
and, in general, married life is smooth. In many cases we have observed 
that Mars in 4* house in exaltation sign generally makes the married 
life happy. However, the subject is of suspicious nature. 


Illustration no. 43.8 Horoscope no. 54 


This horoscope belongs to a world-renowned capitalist, who was initially 
working as an ordinary commission agent in the field of plastics. Later 
on he started taking small contracts and thereafter purchased one 


254 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


Illustration No, 4.3.8 Horoscope No. 54 

Born on 15.10.1954 at 7:16:00 hrs. 

Place: Kanpur Long 80:41 E Lat. 26:28 N 
Balance of Mahadasha of Sun OY 8M 23D 


PLANETARY DEGREES 


Asc 192 : 29: 23 
Sun 177 : 56; 53 
Moon 38 : 21-: 05 
Mars 272 : 41: 16 
Mercury 200 : 51: 09 
Jupiter 94 : 59: 27 
Venus 214 : 45: 37 
Saturn 196 : 22: 3) 
: 16:0 
: 16; 0 


KUJA DOSHA DUE TO MARS IN THE FOURTH HOUSE 255 


machine for the processing of plastic films. In a period of 25 years he 
became one of the most renowned and successful businessman in 
plastics. He is now having business relations in more that 100 countries. 
This is an excellent horoscope in which four planets Moon, Mars, Jupiter 
and Saturn are exalted. And three of them are in kendras giving rise to 
Ruchchaka, Hans, and Shasha Mahapurush Rajyogas. He has been liked 
and loved by innumerable ladies due to his impressive and versatile 
personality. 2" and 7'* lord Mars is exalted in the 4* house and is 
unaspected by any malefic planet. Married life is generally happy. He 
has been blessed with 3 fortunate children. Mars and Saturn both aspect 
the 7* house even then he is enjoying conjugal bliss. Conjunction of 
Satum and Mercury, for Libra ascendant, is marvellous and gives 
unexpected achievements and heights, and makes one very rich. 


Observation 7.4 


Mars in the 4", in the sign of exaltation, does not give rise to effective 
Kuja dosha. The subject generally leads a happy and prosperous life. 

Following are the details of few birth charts, which were also studied 
to deduce the above conclusion: 


1. Female DOB 20.03.1975 TOB 21:00 Shahdara B1/109 
2. Female DOB 25.09.1971 TOB 07:40 Allahabad  BI1/216 
3. Male DOB 30.11.1952 TOB 04:45 Karnal Ci/55 
4. Male DOB 04.02.1947 TOB 00:49 Meerut C1/132 
5. Female DOB 14.03.1975 TOB 20:27 Lucknow Q1/30 
6. Female DOB 28.03.1975 TOB 08:42 Delhi Q1/236 
7. Female DOB 09.01.1981 TOB 03:00 Jaipur Q1/343 


Mars in 4" honse 
For Scorpio Ascendant 


For Scorpio ascendant, placement of Mars in the 4* house in Aquarius 
gives rise to effective Kuja dosha. Here, Mars is the lord of the ascendant 
and 6* house, and its placement may give other benefits of the 4* house 
but it does destroy marital happiness. In case of effective Kuja dosha 
the aspect or conjunction of Mars with Jupiter and Moon enhances the 
Kuja dosha. 


Illustration no. 4.3.9 Horoscope no. 16 


She was quite charming, intelligent and highly educated girl who was 


256 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


married on 21.4.83 and was divorced after 3.5 months on 7.8.83. In fact, 
she suffered from frequent fits of epilepsy. Here /agna lord Mars 
is tenanted in the 4* house with 9* lord Moon and is aspected by 2" 
and 5'* Jord Jupiter. Many will conclude that the adversity of 
Kuja dosha has been neutralised due to such a good combination of 
conjunction of Mars and Moon, and aspect of Jupiter and Venus. 
Here placement of 7" lord Venus in Leo is also quite a negative 
factor for a happy married life. After soliciting divorce she lived 
alone. Havoc of Kuja dosha in 4* house in Aquarius destroyed sweet 
home. 


Observation 8.4 


Placement of Mars in Aquarius in 4" house for Scorpio ascendant 
damages conjugal bliss and in case of affliction of Mars, the adversity 
of Kuja dosha may lead to divorce. 

Following are the details of few birth charts, which were also studied 
to deduce the above conclusion: 


Male DOB 27.11.1907 TOB 07:37 Allahabad CI/2992 

Male DOB 22.10.1956 TOB 08:22 Bahraich C1/171 

Female DOB 04.11.1971 TOB 08:20 Allahabad C1/282 

Male DOB 25.01.1956 TOB 11:33 Faridabad C1/303 

Male DOB 17.01.1937 TOB 53/10 Lucknow M/s 
Ishta 

6. Female DOB 27.09.1956 TOB 10:30 Belgalm M/22 


WP wr 


Mars in 4™ house 
For Sagittarius Ascendant 


For Sagittarius ascendant, placement of Mars in 4* house in Pisces gives 
rise to effective Kuja dosha, and it is worse if 4" lord Jupiter occupies 
the 12" house. Harmony of married life is curtailed but disaster does 
not take place. Problem regarding children may creep up in the absence 
of proper balancing of Kuja dosha with the life partner. 


Illustration no. 4.3.10 Horoscope no. 55 


She is living in U.S.A and was married around 25 years of age. The 
husband is not mangali. She is troubled with a number of physical 
ailments. The married life is also not happy, thongh it is not miserable 
as well. Here Mars is placed in the 4" house with debilitated Mercury, 
the lord of 7" and 10" houses. This has caused the problem of depression 


KUJA DOSHA DUE TO MARS IN THE FOURTH HOUSE 257 


Illustration No. 4.3.10 Horoscope No. 55 

Bom on 113.1966 at 02:59:00 hrs. 

Place: Lucknow Long 80:56 E Lat. 26:51 N 
Blance of Mahadasha of Rahu 1Y 8M 25D 


: PLANETARY DEGREES 


Asc 264 : 26: 0 
Sun 326 : 28: 33 
Moon 198 : 42: 52 
Mars 337: 40: 15 
Mercury 342 : 15: 17 
Jupiter 58 : 46: 41 
Venus 283 : 42:2 
Saturn 326 : 29: 23 
34:21: 8 
214 : 21:8 


258 AN INSIGHT INITIO KUJA DOSHA 


and short temperament to her. Business of her husband is not running 
smooth due to improper match of Kuja dosha. 


Observation 9.4 
Pe 

For Sagittarius ascendant, placement of Mars in the 4" house in Pisces 
is not much harmful but it certainly curtails the happiness of married 
life to some extent. However, if Mars is aspected by Jupiter, the adversity 
will be enhanced. If the 4"" lord Jupiter is placed in 12" house and aspects 
Mars from the 12* house itself, Kuja dosha gets multiplied and may 
create temporary separation. 

Following are the details of few birth charts, which were also studied 
to deduce the above conclusion: 
1. Male DOB 23.7.1973 TOB 18:13 Jaipur X1/136 
2. Male DOB 135.1960 TOB 22:50 Lucknow B1/235 


3. Male DOB 25.12.1971 TOB 07:09 Champavat Q1/78 


Mars in 4" house 
For Capricorn Ascendant 


For Capricorn ascendant, if Mars falls in the 4* house in Aries, there 
is no Kuja dosha. Sages have correctly observed that Mars does not 
create Kuja dosha if placed in 4" house in own sign Aries or Scorpio. 


Illustration no. 4.3.11 Horoscope no. 56 


She is a beautiful woman who was married on 25.1.98 with a strong, 
rich and handsome man. She was blessed with a daughter on 10.8.2001 
and a daughter thereafter. The husband is running a famous Bar and 
restaurant and has many heavy contracts. He loves the native. She is quite 
fortunate to have such a caring and loving life partner. She is bom in 
Capricom ascendant with Mars in the 4" house and yogakaaraka Venus 
in the 9" house. Retrograde Jupiter joins the ascendant and obtains 
Neech Bhanga. She is thus quite fortunate with regard to happy married 
life. Mars did not harm her conjugal life at all. 


Observation 10.4 


For Capricorn ascendant, placement of Mars in the 4* house in Aries 
gives rise to ineffective Kuja dosha. This Mars does not curtail marital 
bliss until unless other combinations afflict 7 house. 


KUJA DOSHA DUE TO MARS IN THE FOURTH HOUSE 259 


Illustration No. 4.3.11 Horoscope No. 56 

Bor on 17.8.1973 at 17:45:00 hrs. 

Place: Lucknow Long 80:56 E Lat. 26:51 N 
Balance of Mahadasha of Satun 7Y 5M 19D 


- PLANETARY DEGREES 


Asc 288 : O1: 58 
Sun 120 : 56: 39 
Moon 341 : 25: 05 
Mars 08 : 32: 09 
Mercury 105: 19: 31 
Jupiter 281: 27: 54R 
Venus 154: 40: 03 
Saturn 68 : 07: 03 
Rahu 253 : 04: 07 


Ketu 73:04: 07 


260 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


Following are the details of few birth charts, which were also studied 
to deduce the above conclusion: 


1. Female DOB 03.12.1973 TOB 11:00 Gorakhpur V 1/208 

2. Female DOB 18.03.1983 TOB 03:30 Calcutta 41/2983 

3. Female DOB 29.02.1972 TOB 05:22 Chakradharpur X1/259 

4. Male DOB 15.03.1953 TOB 04:44 Delhi B1/339 

5. Female DOB 19.02.1925 TOB 57/22 Raipur C1/198 
Ishta 

6. Female DOB 26.05.1947 TOB 22:13 Jaunpur C1/130 


Mars in 4'" house 
For Aquarius Ascendant 


For Aquarius ascendant, placement of Mars in Taums in 4* house is very 
harmful, particularly if 4'" lord Venus occupies the 12" house. This gives 
rise to effective Kuja dosha. Here Mars is lord of 3" and 10" houses 
and creates problems, tension and damage to the married life. If Venus 
does not occupy the 12 house, married life will remain intact but true 
feeling of belonging will be absent. If 4"* lord Venus is afflicted or joins 
the 12" house, the adversity may take the form of Separation. This is 
an effective Kuja dosha. 


Illustration no. 4.3.12 Horoscope no. 57 


She is in-charge of a renowned school at Lucknow. She had a love 
marriage on 29.2.96 after a long courtship. After about 5 years she was 
blessed with a son on 29.11.2000. Her husband is of very suspicions 
character and used not to give money for her monthly expenditure. He 
also misbehaved and tortured her physically and mentally. She is now 
separated and is at the verge of divorce. She was bom with the Mars 
in the 4* honse in Taurus, with Ketu. Satum and Moon both occupy 
the 5" house. 7™ house is aspected by Mars and Satum both, along with 
Jupiter and Mercury. The 4" and 9" lord Venus occupies the 12* house, 
which has been the cause of separation from her husband. The 7™ lord 
Sun is aspected by Saturn. This has further increased the negative 
occurrences in her married life. 


Observation 11.4 


For Aquarius ascendant, the placement of Mars in Taums gives rise to 
effective Kuja dosha and curtails marital bliss m general but divorce 


KUJA DOSHA DUE TO MARS IN THE FOURTH HOUSE 261 


Illustration No. 4.3.12 Horoscope No. 57 

Born on 30.3.1974 at 04:00:00 hrs. 

Place: Lucknow Long 80:56 E Lat. 26:51 N 
Balance of Mahadasha of Mars 3Y 2M 7D 


PLANETARY DEGREES 


Asc 30: 16: 58 
Sun 335: 21 : 00 
Moon 60:35 : 02 
Mars 53 : 52 : 28 
Mercury 318 : 24 : 06 
Jupiter 311 : 23 : 09 
Venus 299 : 02 ; 52 
Saturn 65:06; 44 
Rahu 238 : 58 : 20 
Ketu 58 : 58 : 20 


NAVAMSA 


262 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


does not take place until unless 4" lord Venus or 7" house is afflicted 
heavily. 

Following are the details of few birth charts, which were also studied 
to deduce the above conclusion: 


1. Female DOB 25.07.1962 TOB 21:40 Jamnagar XI/IS5I 
2. Male DOB 14.09.1975 TOB 17:35 Lucknow B1/80 
3. Female DOB 15.04.1955 TOB 03:08 Delhi B1/24) 
4. Female DOB 27.01.1976 TOB 08:05 Lucknow C1/266 


Mars in 4‘ house 
For Pisces Ascendant 


For Pisces ascendant, placement of Mars in the 4" honse in Gemini gives 
rise to effective Kuja dosha. Here, Mars is placed in the 4* house in 
inimical sign Gemini, thus creates disasters in marriage. Conjugal bliss 
is curtailed. One behaves harshly with parents and is blessed with 
property. Here, Mars is killer as it owns 2"* house and is 8* from its 
own 9* house. If Jupiter, Saturn or Moon afflict Mars either by 
conjunction or aspect, Kuja dosha is enhanced resulting into divorce. 
Many readers will be astonished to read that Mars gets afflicted by 
conjunction or aspect of Jupiter or Moon or both, while the general belief 
is just opposite. We have observed frequently and have written many 
articles on the observation that Kuja dosha gets multiplied by association 
or aspect of Jupiter or Moon. Jupiter gets exalted where Mars is 
debilitated and vice-versa. Moon gets debilitated in Martian sign Scorpio 
and Mars gets debilitated in Moon's sign Cancer but Moon and Mars 
are friends. Similarly, Jupiter and Mars are friends but these planets do 
not behave like friends. On the contrary Moon and Jupiter behave 
inimically with Mars. This has strengthened our above-mentioned ob- 
servation. 


Illustration no. 4.3.13 Horoscope no. 58 


She was married on 9.2.1987 with a junior engineer during the 27* year 
of age, during the major period of Venus. Her father was a rich B.D.O. 
at Chandausi. She was very proud of the richness of her family, therefore 
she failed to adjust with her husband and returned back to her father's 
place within one year of her marriage. For last 15 years she is living 
all alone and doing a job of teacher in a small school. Her father could 
not bear the shock, as she was not ready to go back to her husband in 


KUJA DOSHA DUE TO MARS IN THE FOURTH HOUSE 263 


Illustration No. 4.3.13 Horoscope No. 58 

Born on 14.10.1960 at 17:00:00 hrs. 

Place: Chandausi Long 78:49 E Lat. 28:27 N 

Balance of Mahadasha of Mercury 16Y 6M 19D 
LAGNA 


KK 


Loo for 


PLANETARY DEGREES 


Asc 346 : 26 
Sun 177 : 48 
Moon 107 : 01 
Mars 77: 19 
Mercury 202 : 27 
Jupiter 244 : 47 
Venus 207 : 51 

259 : 10 

140 : 06 

320 : 06 


264 AN INSIGHT INIO KUJA DOSHA 


spite of his forceful and repeated persuasion. Her father expired soon 
after she divorced her husband. Mars occupies the 4" house in Gemini. 
Jupiter and Saturn are placed in the 10m house. Thus, Mars receives the 
aspect of Jupiter and Satum which, has enhanced the adversity Kuja 
dosha. The 7* house is also afflicted heavily, as it is jointly aspected 
by both Mars and Saturn. The 6m lord Sun occupies the 7m house and 
7Ttn lord Mercury occupies the 8m house. Thus, heavy affliction of the 
7 house and afflicted Kuja dosha ruined her married life completely 
within one year. After the death of her father her relations with mother 
too got a drubbing because of her insensitive and rude behaviour. 


Observation 12.4 


For Pisces ascendant, placement of Mars in the 4* house in Gemini gives 
rise to effective Kuja dosha. Family life is miserable, emotions are 
vanished and the feeling of belonging is absent; conceit and vanity 
destroy the conjugal bliss. If Jupiter, Satum or Moon conjoin with or 
aspect Mars, intensity of Kuja dosha gets further enhanced. Divorce may 
take place if 7* house is also afflicted in addition to placement of Mars 
in the 4t house under affliction. 

Following are the details of few birth charts, which were also studied 
to deduce the above conclusion: 


Female DOB 13.07.1966 TOB 11:08 Allahabad K/35 

Male DOB 21.05.1942 TOB 03:30 Srinagar Q1/45 

Female DOB 28.10.1975 TOB 16:40 Lucknow Q1/246 

Female DOB 17.03.1978 TOB 18:05 Lucknow R1/289 

Male DOB 20.07.1966 TOB 22:20 Lucknow D1/364 

Male DOB 06.06.1953 TOB 02:00 Jinj a C1/272 
Bugembe 


AnNAWN 


saldad sry: wef a fhod a fear faeata a/ 
qdaeuft qa wefeereta dfsar: 71 


Age, destiny, money, education and death-all these five are determined 


by Brahma even while the creature remains in the womb. 


CHAPTER 4.4 


KUJA DOSHA DUE TO MARS 
IN THE SEVENTH HOUSE 


depending upon the sign that he is in i. e. results may vary for 
the different ascendants. Let us discuss the cases having Mars in 
the 7* house ascendant-wise. 


Pees of Mars in the 7* house can give varying results 


Mars in 7‘ house 


For Aries Ascendant 


Mars will own the ascendant and the 8* house. Its placement in the 7* 
house is adverse from both angles. Parashar has written that if the lord 
of lagna is placed in the 7" house, the spouse will not live long and 
will die early. If the planet is a natural malefic it will be further adverse. 
Similarly, if the lord of 8* house is placed in the 7* house the health 
of spouse will be questionable. For Aries ascendant, Mars is the lord 
of ascendant and 8" house and if it is posited in the seventh house, the 
wife will be killed or die early, because Mars in Libra will give second 
marriage or contacts with many other women as well. Here, Mars causes 
active Kuja dosha. 


Illustration no. 4.4.1 Horoscope no. 59 


Mars is placed in the 7” house in Libra under the aspect of benefic but 
retrograde Jupiter. Sun, Moon, Venus and Saturn occupy the fifth house 


266 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


Iitustration No. 4.4.1 Horoscope No. 59 

Bom on 10.9.1950 at 20:41:00 hrs. 

Place: Sagar Long 78:44 E Lat. 23:50 N 
Balance of Mahadasha of Ketu 4Y 6M iD 


Mercury 156: 51: 48R 
Jupiter 307: 21: 15R 
Venus 127 : 30 . 49 
Saturn 148 : 49 . 45 
Rahu 335 .32:0 


Ketu 155 4 32:0 


KUJA DOSHA DUE TO MARS IN THE SEVENTH HOUSE 267 


that resulted into love marriage with a very beautiful, intelligent, smart 
and highly qualified girl. She was also mangli as Mars, in her birth chart, 
was placed in the 8* house in Cancer, and that too was aspected by 
Jupiter. The native had adulterous nature. He is a wealthy and handsome 
person and is very popular among politicians. His father is a famous 
politician and was an MP. The native's wife used to fight with him due 
to his movement, interest and full involvement with other ladies. He was 
blessed with 3 beautiful daughters. Around 1992 the native married 
another woman clandestinely. She started living with him. When it 
became known to the first wife of the native she created nuisance 
shouting at him in the presence of others. She had acrid arguments with 
the native regarding his second marriage and other adulterous activities 
of the native. At that time the native reacted very diplomatically. He 
somehow cooled her down and a few days later he took her to the top 
roof of his multi-storied house. It was 2.6.95 when the native of this 
horoscope pushed his wife from the roof and killed her. Jupiter's aspect 
over Mars in the 7* house was not of any benefit as far as cancellation 
of Kuja dosha is concerned. The native was sent to jail in spite of his 
all resources and wealth. 


OBSERVATION 1.7 


In Libra Mars creates passion, and sexual excesses but its lord Venus 
is neutral with Mars. For Aries ascendant, if Mars is placed in the 7* 
house the wife will die or be killed in any accident or mishap. The native 
may marry twice. He/she will be very passionate and may commit 
licentious deeds. 

Following horoscopes were also studied to arrive at the observation 
given above: 


Male DOB 14.09.1963 TOB 20:10 Jaunpur —E)//3) 
Male DOB 17.11.1959 TOB 17.00 Bombay C1/246 
Female DOB 13.11.1972 TOB 17:24:45 Rohtak C1/327 
Male DOB 3).03.1967 TOB 08.00 Bangkok €1/385 
Male DOB 30.09.1978 TOB 18:40 Kanpur Q2/3) 
Male DOB 11.02.1969 TOB 11:05 Kuchha = J2/72 
Male DOB 28.02.1967 TOB 10:00 Azamgarh H1/17 


NAWARWN = 


268 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


Mars in 7" house 
For Taurus ascendant 


If Mars occupies the 7" house, for Taurus ascendant, it falls in Scorpio 
i.e. in its own sign. Mars also owns the 12" house in addition to the 
7* house, which makes Mars a Maarkesh. This is an adverse disposition 
of Mars where it will give rise to widowhood. The husband of the native 
will die in any accident or mishap soon after marriage. The aspect of 
Jupiter on the 7™ house and over Mars will not prevent the adversity. 


Illustration no. 4.4.2 Horoscope no. 60 


The lord of the 7* house Mars in Scorpio joins the 7* house itself in 
association with 2"? and 5* lord Mercury and Ketu. Saturn occupies the 
10'" house and there is mutual aspect between Mars and Saturn. She was 
deeply involved with a Muslim boy. Marriage could not be held with 
that boy, as she was a Hindu. Due to utmost pressure of her parents she 
got married in Oct. 87 with a handsome engineer boy. She was blessed 
with a daughter in 88 and soon thereafter she diplomatically, cleverly, 
and intelligently managed to murder her husband in Jan 1989, Here 5* 
lord Mercury is placed with 7* lord Mars. This is also a Madan Gopal 
Yoga, which makes one adulterous. Mercury provided her negative 
intelligence and Ketu further enhanced the intensity of Mars. Mutual 
aspect between Mars and Saturn further aggravated the intensity of Mars 
but side by side being a Yogakaaraka made her fortunate as well. In spite 
of the murder of husband she was not accused of any charge. Within 
one year she managed her 2" marriage with the same Muslim boy. 


Illustration no. 4.4.3 Horoscope no. 61 


Here Mars is placed in the 7" house in Scorpio. Thus she is an active 
mangli girl. Jupiter occupies the Jagna. Thus there is mutual aspect 
between Jupiter and Mars. Her father was Chairman of UPSEB and 
consulted us about the matching of horoscope with a doctor boy. He was 
not mangli and therefore the proposal was strongly and nghtly con- 
demned. Many astrologers of Varanasi advised.for the marriage because, 
according to them, Kuja dosha was neutralized by Jupiter's mutual 
aspect. Mr. Chairman did not give any importance to our observation 
that Kuja dosha gets enhanced by Jupiter's association or aspect. He 
performed the marriage of the native on 9.2.74 with the same boy. Her 
husband, who was a very handsome and smart doctor, got crushed by 
a caron 16,3.76. Thus she suffered widowhood. According to Mr. HN. 


KUJA DOSHA DUETO MARS IN THE SEVENTH HOUSE 269 


Illustration No. 4.4.2 Horoscope No. 60 

Bom on 2.11.1965 at 19:42:00 hrs. 

Place: Aligarh Long 78:4 E Lat. 27:54 N 

Balance of Mahadasha of Sun 3Y 5M 19D 
LAGNA 


8 
Ky 

KET 
Mercury 217 : 04: 43 
Jupiter 67 : 37: 19R 
Venus 243: 10: 44 
Saturn 317: 13:24 
Rahu 41: 35:24 


Ketu 221 : 35: 24 


270 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


Illustration No. 4.43 Horoscope No. 61 

Bor on 16.2.1954 at 11:36:00 hrs. 

Place: Calcutta Long 88:20 E Lat. 22:30 N 

Balance of Mahadasha of Saturn OY 10M 27D 
LAGNA 


PLANETARY DEGREES 


Asc 43 : 30: 54 
Sun 303 : 49: 06 
Moon 106 :.01: 43 
Mars 280 : 20: 32 
Mercury 321 : 31: 40 
Jupiter 53: 14: 59 
Venus 307 : 58: 57 


Satur 196: 7 : 52 


KUJA DOSHA DUE TO MARS IN THE: SEVENTH HOUSE 271 


Katwe Saturn is just a house behind Mars, which is also damaging and 
makes one active mangli. 


OBSERVATION 2.7 


For Taurus ascendant, placement of Mars in the 7* house in Scorpio will 
give rise to active Kuja dosha. The husband of the woman may die in 
any accident or mishap, soon after marriage. 

Following horoscopes were also studied to arrive at the observation 
given above: 


1. Female DOB 28.10.1963 TOB 1925 Lucknow BI1/99 
2. Female DOB 07.06.1969 TOB 11:45 Baroda 12/92 
3. Female DOB 15.08.1969 TOB 00:05 Bahari Q1/136 


Mars iu 7 house 
For Gemini Ascendant 


For Gemini ascendant, Mars will own 11" and 6* house. Here its 
placement in the 7” honse will give ailment to the life partner. If it is 
placed with Sun there will be no problem in the married life becanse 
the Sun controls the actions of Mars. However, if 8* lord Saturn joins 
the Mars in the 7" house, this will be damaging. 


Illustration uo. 4.4.4 Horoscope no. 62 


She was born in Gemini ascendant with Sun and Venus in the 7* along 
with Mars. The 7* lord Jupiter, who aspects the 7* house Mars, has 
mutual exchange or Vinimay Parivartan Rajayoga. She had a love 
marriage on 9.2.2000 with a handsome boy involved into the profession 
of manufacturing medicines i.e. pharmaceutical. She is leading a happy 
married life. 


Observation 3.7 


For Gemini ascendant, if Mars is placed in 7 house in Sagittarius, 
ailments to husband and professional problems to him may appear. If 
Mars and Saturn join in the 7* house there will be disaster. If the Sun 
is associated with Mars in 7", the married life will generally be happy. 

Following horoscopes were also studied to arrive at the observation 
given above: 


1. Male DOB 5.11.1965 TOB 21.12 Gorakhpur E1/88 
2. Male DOB 183.1956 TOB 12:15 Mirzapur 1/97 


272 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


Illustration No.4.4.4 Horoscope No. 62 

Born on 71.1977 at 16:30:00 hrs. 

Place: Bareilly Long 79:24 E Lat. 28:20 N 
Balance of Mahadasha of Satum OY 3M 13D 


PLANETARY DEGREES 


Asc 70: 50: 18 
Sun 263 : 30: 16 
Moon 106 :-30: 16 
Mars 251 : 16: 46 
Mercury 260 : 51: 36R 
Jupiter 27:44: 45R 
Venus 309 : 42: 09 
Saturn lll: 53: 17R 
Rahu 186 ; 30; 57 


Ketu 06 ; 30: 57 


KUJA DOSHA DUE TO MARS IN THE SEVENTH HOUSE 273 


3. Female DOB 07.01.1977 TOB 04:30 Bareilly M1/57 
4. Male DOB 28.04.1954 TOB 09:50 Delhi Q2/99 
5. Female DOB 12.10.1954 TOB 05:00 Bareilly J1/3 

6. Female DOB 15.12.1978 TOB 19:23 J1/38 J2/72 


Mars in 7"" house 
For Cancer Ascendant 


If Mars is placed in the 7" house, for Cancer ascendant, it will give rise 
to inactive Kuja dosha. In other words, here Mars will promote the 
husband or wife. Early and happy marriage with a good-looking life 
partner will take place. 


Illustration no. 4.4.5 Horoscope no. 63 


Exalted and unaspected Mars in the 7” house resulted in happy married 
life. Here the 7 lord Saturn occupies the 9* house under retrograde 
motion. She had an early love marriage around 20 years of age. Few 
years after marriage she got involved with a multi millionaire as soon 
as major period of Mars started. It was well known to her husband but 
the married life remained intact. On the contrary her husband got many 
promotions and elevation due to associations of his wife (native) with 
the wholesole owner of the organization, where his husband was 
working. 


Illustration no. 4.4.6 Horoscope no. 14 


Exalted Jupiter in the ascendant and exalted Mars in the 7'* house has 
resulted into RajaBhang Yog. Jupiter is the 6" Jord and aspects the 5% 
house and 5"" lord Mars. She had a love marriage with a Srivastava boy. 
Due to lot of interference of mother-in-law, her marriage failed and after 
5 or 6 years she started living separately. Here the lord of 6"" house 
Jupiter's aspect over Mars in the 7 house caused the adversity. Saturn 
is also exalted. In spite of three Mahapurush Rajayoga i.e. Hans 
Mahapurush Rajyoga, Shasa Rajayoga, Ruchchak Rajyoga, she suffered 
from the pangs of separation. She is now serving as a teacher in a small 
school. 

In another case, husband is a Major General in Army. She is little 
dissatisfied due to adulterous nature of her husband but there is no 
serious problem in married life as Mars is exalted in the 7" house. Thus, 
the placement of Mars in the sign of exaltation cancels the Kuja dosha 
and does not disturb married life, unless other negative combinations are 
present. 


274 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


Illustration No. 4.4.5 Horoscope No. 63 

Bom on 25.11.1967 at 22:55:00 hrs. 

Place: Lucknow Long 80:56 E Lat. 26:51 N 
Balance of Mahadasha of Venus 12Y 6M 18D 


PLANETARY DEGREES 


Asc 117 : 48: 23 
Sun 219 : 20: 44 
Moon 138: 17: 18 
Mars 271 : 53: 16 
Mercury 201 : 55: 08 
Jupiter 131 : 18: 54 
Venus 173 : 32: O1 
Satum 342 224: 34 
Rahu 04 : 01: 53 


Ketu 184 : 01: 53 


KUJA DOSHA DUE TO MARS IN THE SEVENTH HOUSE 275 


Illustration no. 4.4.7 Horoscope no. 64 


The native was engineer-in-chief in irrigation. He has a robust and 
impressive personality due to Jupiter's aspect over the Cancer ascendant 
and over its lord Moon. Here, the 9" lord Jupiter joins the 9" house 
and 10" house is aspected by its own lord Mars. The ascendant lord 
Moon and the 9* lord Mercury are under mutual aspect giving lot of 
strength to fortunes. Placement of retrograde debilitated Saturn is like 
exalted Saturn as per rules of retrograde planets. We may add that exalted 
planets, if retrograde, give results of debilitation. In this horoscope 
Mercury is also exalted, in addition to Mars. Saturn and Venus are 
debilitated but obtain Neech Bhang Rajyoga, i.e. cancellation of debili- 
tation. The Sun and Jupiter obtain own signs, respectively. 

These combinations have resulted into unexpected rise of native as 
he comes from humble circumstances. The native got married on 
11.12.61 during sub period of Mercury in the major period of Rahu when 
Jupiter was transiting the 7" house from ascendant and was crossing the 
radical location of Mars, with an exceptionally beautiful female having 
captivating, chiselled and proportionate physique and outstanding merits. 
The native has been blessed with 3 daughters, and one son after the 
daughters. We want to specify that native is mangli as Mars is posited 
in the 7* house. In spite of 42 years of marriage he is leading a very 
happy and prosperous conjugal life, full of love and care for each other. 
In this case we can also say that the exalted Mars in the 7 house does 
not make the native mangli. A man or a woman, having Mars in 
Capricorn in 7", will not suffer from any kind of adversities of Kuja 
dosha even if there is mutual aspect between Mars and Saturn. Here it 
is inactive Kuja dosha. 


Observation 4.7 


For Cancer ascendant, placement of Mars in Capricorn will cancel Kuja 
dosha. But if Mars is afflicted by the aspect of 6" lord Jupiter or 8" 
lord Saturn, married life will be disturbed; otherwise the Yogakaraka 
Mars will result into happy marriage. 

Following horoscopes were also studied to arrive at the observation 
given above: 


!. Female DOB 25.10.1954 TOB 22:57 Patna (18) 

2. Male DOB 11.5.1971 TOB 10:23:30 Mau Rampur B1/352 
3. Male DOB 26.11.1967 TOB 10:33 Solon El/24 
4. Male DOB 16.10.1954 TOB 23:59 Mainpuri C1/234 


276 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


Illustration No. 4.4.7 Horoscope No. 64 

Born on 16.9.1939 at 03:30:00 hrs. 

Place: Ghazipur Long 83:36 E Lat. 25:36 N 
Balance of Mahadasha of Mars 1Y 11M 9D 


PLANETARY DEGREES 


Ase 119? 06: 34 
Sun 149 : 07: 54 
Moon 182 : 57: 54 
Mars 274 : 19: 25 
Mercury 143: 13: 44 
Jupiter 342 : 18: 55R 
Venus I51 2 50: 45 
Saturn 07 : 20: 37 
Rahu 186 : 41 : 46 


Ketu 06 : 41: 46 


KUJA DOSHA DUE TO MARS IN THE SEVENTH HOUSE 277 


5. Female DOB 29.12.1950 TOB 20.00 Khurja 12/63 
6. Male DOB 10.07.1939 TOB 06:10 Aligarh H/52 
7. Female DOB 10.03.1945 TOB 15:10 Udaipur K/6 


Mars in 7‘" honse 
For Leo ascendant 


Here Mars is a Yogkaaraka, as it owns the 4" and the 9™ houses. 
However, if Mars is placed in the 7 house in Aquarius it will not protect 
the native from marital disturbances. Though according to a few earlier 
mentioned aphorisms, Mars does not cause Kuja dosha in Aquarius and 
Leo signs anywhere, we have not found it correct in our experience. 


Illustration no. 4.4.8 Horoscope no. 65 


She was born in Leo ascendant with Mars in the 7* house. The 7* lord 
Satum is also placed in the sign of Aries. Mars obtains navamsa of 
exaltation. There is mutual exchange between 7" lord Satum and 9* lord 
Mars giving rise to Vinimay Parivartan Rajayoga. She got married to 
a very handsome and smart IPS officer, when she was 21 years of age. 
The combination for good fortune is present in this birth chart. Her 
husband received many promotions. By 1981 he was D. I. G. of Police. 
At a time on 25.2.82 when the native was involved in adultery, her 
husband caught her red-handed with her lover. In fact her husband, who 
had gone out, was not expected to come back so soon. The native was 
sleeping in her bedroom with a subordinate of her husband and was 
caught in a most undesirable position. Her husband could not bear the 
shock of infidelity of his wife and shot himself by his service revolver 
on 28.2.82. She suffered from the curse of widowhood at the age of 41. 
However, she got the job on compassionate grounds in place of her 
husband after his death, and later died at the age of 54 years in 1995. 

In another case of Leo ascendant, Mars in Aquarius in 7* and Saturn 
in the ascendant caused miserable married life. The wife developed a 
tumor of 12 kg of weight and the native himself suffered from paralysis. 


Observation 5.7 


For Leo ascendant, placement of Mars in the 7" house makes one active 
mangli and may result into disasters and death of spouse. In case 7" lord 
Satur, occupies the ascendant adversity of Mars will be heavily reduced. 

Following horoscopes were also studied to arrive at the observation 
given above: 


278 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


Illustration No. 4.4.8 Horoscope No. 65 

Born on 24.5.194] at 11:32:00 hrs. 

Place: Varanasi Long 83:00 E Lat. 25:20 N 
Balance of Mahadasha of Venus 12Y 10M 21D 


PLANETARY DEGREES 


Asc 125 : 35: 20 
Sun 39 : 37: 54 
Moon 18 704: 19 
Mars 312 ; 21: 27 
Mercury 58 : 33: 17 
Jupiter 36 2 25: 27 
Venus 48 : 52: 10 

26 : 55: 52 

156 : 56: 37 

336 : 56: 37 


Ktua DOSHA DUETO MARS IN THE SEVENTH HOUSE 279 


1. Female DOB 04.02.1949 TOB 19:00 Delhi K2/47 
2. Female DOB 09.05.1973 TOB 13:55 Lucknow C13 
3. Female DOB 19.12.1969 TOB 22:35 Gorakhpur C1/206 
4. Female DOB 14.09.1963 TOB 20:10 Jaipur E1/64 
5. Male DOB 13.04.1975 TOB 14:55 Jaipur E!/81 
6. Male DOB 06.02.1949 TOB 20:30 Johanseburg C1/366 
7. Female DOB 30.11.1971 TOB 10:30 Behraich C1/390 
8. Female DOB 04.02.1949 TOB 19:00 Delhi 12/76 
9. Female DOB 13.12.1969 TOB 12:05 Delhi D1/126 


10 Male DOB 08.03.1994 TOB 18:36 28N39,77E 13 N1/72 
Mars in 7" house 


For Virgo ascendant 


For Virgo ascendant, Mars is the lord of the 3" and the 8* houses. If 
it is placed in the 7" house it will disturb the married life, provided 7” 
lord Jupiter is adversely placed or afflicted. We have found that for a 
male nativity, if Mars joins the 7" house in Pisces without affliction, 
married life will hot be disturbed but the health of wife will be quite 
bad. 


Illustration no. 4.4.9 Horoscope no. 66 


The native is a topper of I1.A.S examination of his batch. He was bom 
in Virgo ascendant with Mars in the 7" in Pisces. Here Mars is the lord 
of 3 and 8" houses, whereas 7* lord Jupiter occupies the 8* house 
under the aspect of 5* and 6” lord Saturn. The 7* house in hemmed 
between malefics giving rise to Papakartari Yoga. The native got 
married around 26 year of age and the married life is extremely happy. 
He is also blessed with two sons. 

Here we would like to illustrate one more case of Virgo ascendant 
with Mars in 7* in Pisces. She is the wife of the native whose horoscope 
has been analysed above. In fact, the Chairman of Hyde! Project 
consulted us at the time of the marriage of his son. His son was bom 
in Rohini constellation and the girl was bom in Ashlesha constellation. 
There were only 12 matching points out of 36. There were nadi dosha, 
gana dosha, graha matri dosha but even then the match was strongly 
recommended. We never give much importance to matching points from 
very early times in our journey of astrology. We have explained this point 
in our books ‘Predicting Marriage’ and 'Vaivahik Sukh: Jyotishya 
Sandarbh'. The couple is leading an exceptionally happy married life. 
We explain it in the following case. 


280 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


Illustration No. 4.4.9 

Born on 15.4.1964 
Place: Lucknow 
Balance of Mahadasha of 


Mercury 
Jupiter 
Venus 
Saturn 
Rahu 
Ketu 


Horoscope No. 66 

at 18:04:00 hrs. 

Long 80:56 E Lat. 26:51 N 
Moon 7Y 2M 26D 


KUJA DOSHA DUE TO MARS IN THE SEVENTH HOUSE 281 


Illustration no. 4.4.10 Horoscope no. 67 


She is born in Virgo ascendant with Mars in 7" in Pisces. The 7™ house 
is hemmed between two malefics, Rahn and Saturn, giving rise to 
Papakartari Yoga. She got married in her 20" year with the native of 
Illustration no. 4.4.9 and is leading exceptionally happy conjugal life. 
At the time of matching of both the birth charts it was found that Graha 
Melapak and Bhava Melapak have quite strong matching. Both are born 
in Virgo ascendant with Mars in the 7" in Pisces. The 7" house in both 
the horoscopes is placed under Papakartari Yoga. The 9* house is strong 
in both the cases, therefore the matching was recommended quite 
strongly in spite of only 12 matching points. After about 15 years of 
marriage there has been no problem, no unhappiness, or any tragedy in 
their married life. Here-Kuja dosha of one horoscope has cancelled the 
dosha of another. We would like to point ont that in the same ascendant 
the same placement of Mars would nullify the Kuja dosha. 


Illustration no. 4.4.11 Horoscope no. 68 


The native is a retired member of UPSEB. He and his wife were popular 
in the department as most suitable, impressive and handsome couple. 
Both partners are exceptionally good looking and smart. They are 
Kashmiri Brahmins. This is the horoscope of male native with Mars in 
the 7 house in Pisces, having no adverse aspect. There is mutual 
exchange between 4* and 7" lord Jupiter and 9" lord Venus giving rise 
to Vinimay Parivartan Rajayoga. The wife of the native also has Mars 
in 2"¢ house in Scorpio. Both are living quite happily. Their married life 
is full of love, care, happiness, and great feeling of belonging for each 
other. Till this age of 64, Mars of the 7 house has not spoiled the married 
life of the native. 


Illustration no. 4.4.12 Horoscope no. 69 


She was born in Virgo ascendant with Mars in the 7" house in Pisces 
in association with the 12" lord Sun, /agna lord Mercury and Rahu. The 
combination of 7 house Mars, Sun, Rahn, and Mercury receives the 
aspect of Jupiter and Saturn, one benefic and other malefic. She got 
married on 19.6.49 at the age of 17. After leading a married life of 34 
years, at the age of 61 years, she suffered the loss of her husband. In 
spite of affliction and combustion of Mars and affliction by the asso- 
ciation of Mercury and aspect of Saturn she led a happy married life 
for 34 years and got two sons and one daughter. The 9" house is strong 


282 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


Illustration No. 4.4.10 Horoscope No. 67 

Born on 23.01.1970 at 22:45:08 hrs. 

Place: Meerut Long 77:45 E Lat. 29:1 N 
Balance of Mahadasha of Mercury 9Y 5M 2D 


PLANETARY DEGREES 


Asc 164 : 35 
Sun 279 : S51 
Moon 112 ; 36. 
Mars 335 : 40 
Mercury 260 : 33R 
Jupiter 191 : 23 
Venus 279 : 35 
Saturn 8: 58 
Rahu 320 : 38 
Ketu 140 : 38 


NAVAMSA 


KUJA DOSHA DUE TO MARS IN THE SEVENTH HOUSE 283 


Illustration No. 4.4.11 Horoscope No. 68 

Born on 13.11.1941 at 02:20:00 hrs. 

Place: Allahabad Long 81:50 E Lat. 25:57 N 

Balance of Mahadasha of Ketu 4Y 4M 16D 
LAGNA 


- PLANETARY DEGREES 


Asc 152 : 31 
Sun 207 : 3 

Moon 124: 57 
Mars 348 : 4 

Mercury 188 : 1 

Jupiter 56: 34 
Venus 253 : 54 
Saturn 32 : 23 
Rahu 147 : 56 
Ketu 327 : 56 


MAR MER 


284 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


Illustration No. 4.4.12 Horoscope No. 69 

Bor on 10.4.1932 at 18:05:00 hrs. 

Place: Kanpur Long 80:19 E Lat. 26:27 N 
Balance of Mahadasha of Moon SY 4M 21D 


SUN 
MAR 


MER 
RAH 


PLANETARY DEGREES 


Asc 172 : 49° 41 
Sun 357 : 30: 50 
Moon 46:8 : 4 
Mars 342 ; 42: 18 
Mercury 357: 22: 43R 
Jupiter 109 : 41; 51 
Venus 42 : 52: 06 
Saturn 280 : 54: 29 
Rahu 333 : 00: 04 


Ketu 153 : 00: 04 


KUJA DOSHA DUE TO MARS IN THE SEVENTH HOUSE 285 


as well. Mars in the 7" house did not harm the lady much. Here Kuja 
dosha is inactive. 

In all cases illustrated above Mars in Pisces in the 7" house was 
not disastrous and did not cause any havoc, tragedy, misery or problem 
in their conjugal life. 


Observation 6.7: 


For Virgo ascendant, if Mars is placed in the 7” house in Pisces, it will 
not be disastrous for married life or for the life of spouse. If Mars is 
heavily afflicted along with 7” lord Jupiter disturbance will arise but in 
all such cases health of wife will require lot of care and treatment. 

Some of the other birth charts, which were also considered, have 
following details: 


1. Female DOB 13.06.1975 TOB 13:30 Saharanpur $1/49 
2. Female DOB 01.03.2000 TOB 21:15 Delhi K1/63 
3. Male DOB 29.12.1971 TOB 23:50 Hardoi E1/48 


Mars in 7‘ house 
For Libra ascendant 


For Libra ascendant if Mars occupies the 7* house in Aries, it is not 
good for a happy married life. Mars is the lord of the 7" and the 2" 
houses, for Libra ascendant. Thus Mars becomes a strong ‘Maarkesh’. 
Since, here in 7* house, Mars will occupy its own sign, Aries, it will 
bring problems to the spouse. Family life will be unhappy and one may 
indulge in immoral activities. Mars will aspect 10", 2™¢ and the 
ascendant, therefore it will be harmful for health, profession and finance 
as well. For Libra ascendant, Mars gives the worst result but in Aries 
it will not cause the death of life partner or separation, though marital 
life will be unhappy. There will be no mutual understanding or love 
between the couple and it may only be an adjustment between the 
husband and wife. 


Illustration no. 4.4.13 Horoscope no. 70 


The native is a civil service officer. He was born in Libra ascendant with 
Moon and Mars in the 7* house. He is quite a handsome and smart boy. 
During preparation of IAS he met with a girl of most ordinary appearance 
and elder in age. However, both had a long courtship of about 6 years. 
The boy had assured the girl for marriage under any circumstances. Both 
were Brahmins. Age of the girl was advancing gradually. There was 


286 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


Iilustration No. 4.4.13 Horoscope No. 70 

Born on 19.2.1972 at 22:41:00 hrs. 

Place: Lucknow Long 80:56 E Lat. 26:51 N 

Balance of Mahadasha of Ketu 1Y 8M 5D 
LAGNA 


DEGREES 

189 : 40: 40 

306 : 41: 42 

10 : 07: 40 

12: 33: 24 

Mercury 308 : 41: 27 
Jupiter 248 : 49: 49 
Venus 347 : 32: 17 
Saturn 36 : 27: 24 
Rahu 281 : 28: 39 
Ketu 101 : 28: 39 


4 
: 4 MON MAR 
VEN 


KUJA DOSHA DUE TO MARS IN THE SEVENTH HOUSE 287 


pressure from her parents for marriage.- Whenever she asked the boy for 
marriage, he always deferred the proposal till he takes all the four 
attempts of IAS. He got the success in the third attempt and that was 
the critical moment when the girl pressed him hard for marriage. There 
were, now, innumerable proposals of very beautiful and rich girls for 
him after qualifying into IAS. By this time the girl was 30 and the boy 
was 29. The girl had waited for 6 years for marriage with this boy, as 
both loved each other. There had always been full assurance of marriage. 
The boy was neither saying yes or no even after qualifying into IAS. 
Ultimately the boy was convinced and married her on 26.11.2002. The 
marriage is intact and happy till date, thongh possibilities of upheavals 
in their life, after a few years, can not be ruled out. 


Illustration no. 4.4.14 Horoscope uo. 71 


Native was bom in Libra ascendant. Mars is in the 7” house in Aries. 
Native is handsome, smart boy and had a love marriage with a quite 
good-looking and smart girl. Married life is generally happy but she has 
predominance over the native. Mutual aspect between Venus and Mars 
has given innumerable love affairs to the native. Actually this is bringing 
some problem in the married life now. 


Illustration no. 4.4.15 Horoscope no. 72 


She is wife of an IAS officer, having Jupiter in the ascendant and Mars 
and Saturn in the 7™ house. She got married on 1992 and was blessed 
with a daughter on 24.2.94. Her husband met with many accidents and 
suffered ill health due to presence of Mars in the 7" house. Her married 
life is also quarrelsome. The husband suffered a lot in his professional 
sphere with many inquiries, allegation and charges etc. Mars obtains 
vargottam navamsa and its association with Saturn in the 7" house has 
nullified the adversities of Kuja dosha but the aspect of retrograde 
Jupiter, the lord of 3 and 6" honse, over Mars is also responsible for 
marital nnhappiness. However, the marriage is intact and there is no 
possibility of separation or death of spouse. 

In most of the cases, whether men or women, we have observed that 
placement of Mars in the 7* house had not been much disastrous. This 
gives unhappy married life. The marriage generally takes place after 21 
years or 28 years of age. If the spouse is not having Kuja dosha and 
there is no balancing of Kuja dosha there will be many quarrels between 
the couple, due to difference in their opinions. If Saturn's aspect is not 
there the predominance of wife will also be there. Any kind of separation 


288 AN {SIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


Illustration No.4,4.14 Horoscope No. 71 

Born on 20.09.1973 at 09:30:00 hrs. 

Place: Allahabad Long 81:50 E Lat. 25:27 N 
Balance of Mahadasha of Rahu 13Y 5M 20D 


PLANETARY DEGREES 


Asc 201 : 39: 49 
Sun 153 : 33: 19 
Moon 70 : 00': 38 
Mars 15 : 46: 37R 
Mercury 167 : 20: 03 
Jupiter 278 : 54: 39R 
Venus ° 204 : 26: 10 
Saturn 70 : 35: 29 
Rahu 250: 16: 18 


Ketu 70: 16: 18 


KUJA DOSHA DUE TO MARS IN THE SEVENTH HOUSE 289 


Illustration No.4.4.15 Horoscope No. 72 

Born on 28.2.1970 at 22:35:00 hrs. 

Place: Lakhimpur Long 80:47 E Lat. 27:57 N 
Balance of Mahadasha of Satun 7Y 7M 8D 


“ PLANETARY DEGREES 


Asc 196 : 06: 19 
Sun 316; 15; 19 
Moon 221 : 16: 51 
Mars 01 : 59: 45 
Mercury 298 : 15: 49 
Jupiter 192: 24: 25R 
Venus : 324 : 41: 33 
Saturn Wl: 20: 22 
Rahu 318 : 20: 30 
Ketu 138 : 20: 30 
NAVAMSA 


XOK 


290 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


will not take place in spite of quarrelsome life. Aspect of Jupiter over 
Mars will enhance the adversities where as Yogkaaraka Saturn's aspect 
over Mars will minimize the same. 


Observation 7.7: 


For Libra ascendant, if Mars is placed in 7" house in Aries, there will 
be an active Kuja dosha, which will bring lot of misunderstandings, 
unhappiness, miseries, tensions, conflicts and differences with the life 
partner. But relations with life partner will not be broken by separation 
or death. 

Some of the other birth charts, which were also considered, have 
following details: 


Female DOB 30.05.1962 TOB 16:00 Lucknow J2/80 
Female DOB 01.05.1964 TOB 06:43 Lucknow (33) 
Male DOB 03.07.1943 TOB 14:02 Lahore C-1/211 
Male DOB 25.07.1958 TOB 12:25 Lucknow M1/84 
Female DOB 07.10.1973 TOB 08:10 Lucknow EI/19 
Male DOB 25.06.1949 TOB 01:30 Lucknow B1/195 
Female DOB 06.02.1957 TOB 00:40 Allahabad B1/392 
Male DOB 24.02.1957 TOB 22:00 Lucknow M1/86 
9. Male DOB 18.12.1958 TOB 04:18:19 Haldwani J2/4 
10. Male DOB 14.05.1966 TOB 17:22 Etawah Q2/9 
ll. Female DOB 30.07.1943 TOB 12:14 Aligarh J2/39 


Mars in 7" honse 
For Scorpio Ascendant 


In case of Scorpio ascendant, if Mars is placed in the 7" house, the 
separation with spouse is possible. Here, Mars is the lord of ascendant 
and the 6* house. The 6" house is 12* from 7". 12'* house indicates 
separation or divorce. The relationship between 6" and 7" house is worse 
than that of 7” and 8" house. Here, Mars joins the 7* house as lagna 
lord and that is always adverse, as we have explained in observations 
No. 1.7. The effects of Mars in 7* in Taurus will be further spoiled to 
create havoc in marital life, if Saturn and Mars are under mutual aspect. 


Illustration no. 4.4.16 Horoscope no. 73 


She was born in Scorpio ascendant where /agna lord Mars occupies the 
7" house in conjunction with the 9" lord Moon, which happens to be 
the best benefic for Scorpio ascendant. The lord of 3" and 7™ house, 


KUJA DOSHA DUE TO MARS IN THE SEVENTH HOUSE 291 


Illustration No. 4.4.16 Horoscope No. 73 

Born on 5.9.1958 at 12:00:00 hrs. 

Place: Kanpur Long 80:19 E Lat. 26:27 N 
Balance of Mahadasha of Sun 1Y 10M 2D 


* PLANETARY DEGREES 


Asc 129 : 35: 23 
Sun 138 : 54: 29 
Moon 35.54. 13 
Mars 31 3 25: 30 
Mercury 122 : 01: 07 
Jupiter 186 ; 20; 29 
Venus 121 : 28: 16 
Saturn 235 : 56: 06 
Rahu 179 ; 43: 35 
Ketu 359 * 43: 35 


NAVAMSA 


292 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


Saturn, occupies the ascendant. Thus Saturn occupies the /agna, and 
Moon and Mars join the 7", and they aspect each other. This lady got 
married in the year 1981 with a high-class businessman. After about 17 
years of marriage her husband got deeply involved mentally and 
physically, with a lady who was 18 years elder to him. The native tried 
her level best to save her marriage but ultimately received disappoint- 
ment and failure. The conjugal bliss turned into inimical relationship. 
Placement of Mars in Taurus in the seventh house is always untrustwor- 
thy for a happy marital life. Such Mars will give rise to positive or active 
Kuja dosha. 


Observation: 8.7 


For Scorpio ascendant placement, of Mars in the 7" house causes active 
Kuja dosha. The native or the spouse will be involved somewhere and 
that will be disastrous for their conjugal bliss. 

Some of the other birth charts, which were also considered, have 
following details: 


Female DOB 05.99.1958 TOB 12:00 Kanpur (122) 
Female DOB 20.1.1964 TOB 18:20 Patna E1/34 
Male DOB’ 28.7.1962 TOB 15:12 Lucknow M1l/9 
Male DOB 28.8.1943 TOB 13:12 Bankura  J2/26 
Female DOB 12.7.1964 TOB_ 17:00 Kanpur J1/3) 
Male DOB 18.11.1976 TOB 03:10 Mordabad K2/16 
Male DOB 174.1957 TOB 21:10 Allahabad J1/68 
Female DOB 28.7.1962 TOB = 15:12 Lucknow W1/79 


SIAARYN 


Mars in 7* house 
For Sagittarius ascendant 


Mars in the 7* house, for Sagittarius ascendant, will result into divorce 
or unhappy married life. There is a possibility of miserable love marriage. 
Here, placement of Mars will give rise to active Kuja dosha as it is lord 
of 12* and 5™ houses. Whenever 12" lord joins the 7*, or vice versa, 
adversities in married life are bound to come. 


Illustration no. 4.4.17 Horoscope no. 74 


The native is an JAS officer and comes from the family of many 
IAS officers. In this horoscope the 12" lord Mars joins the 7* house 
in association with 11" and 6 Jord Venus. Rahu also joins Mars 
and Venus, in the 7* house. Affliction of Venus by Mars and Rahu in 


KUJA DOSHA DUE TO MARS IN THE SEVENTH HOUSE 293 


Illustration No. 4.4.17 Horoscope No. 74 

Bom on 30.7.1964 at 17:5:00 hrs. 

Place: Delhi Long 77:13 E Lat. 28:39 N 

Balance of Mahadasha of Mercury 9Y 2M 2D 
LAGNA 


Sort 


DK 


Mercury 130 : 27: 07 
Jupiter 29 : 27: 06 
Venus 62 : 55: 44 
Saturn 310: 07: ISR 


2904 AN INSIGHT INTO Kua DOSHA 


the 7m house is very adverse for conjugal bliss. The native got 
married with a beautiful girl recently but soon after marriage misunder- 
standings, suspicion and maladjustment with wife resulted into 
separation. In this birth chart 7 lord Mercury occupies the 9m house 
and lagna lord Jupiter aspects 7th lord Mercury and the ascendant. Rahu, 
Sun and Saturn have a tendency of separation. If any of these planets 
occupy the 7 house with Mars or the 7m lord, chances of divorce 
become enhanced. 


Illustration no. 4.4.18 Horoscope no. 75 


The native is born in Sagittarius with retrograde Mars in Gemini in 7". 
The 7th lord Mercury is posited in the 12 house in Scorpio. Thus there 
is mutual exchange between 12: lord Mars and 7th lord Mercury. They 
are living happily, there is no problem in their married life. Retrograde 
Mars is responsible for cancellation of Kuja dosha. Retrograde Mars 
becomes a benefic in 7th and 8 house. On the contrary, retrograde 
benefics become malefics in these houses. 


Observation: No. 9.7 


For Sagittarius ascendant, if Mars is placed in the 7m house in Gemini, 
it will result into miserable and unhappy married life. It is active Kuja 
dosha. If Mars is afflicted by Venus, Rahu or Saturn and 7th lord is also 
adversely placed in 6m or 12 house, there are strong indications of 
separation. This position of Mars may also result into unhappy love 
marriage provided Stn house in aspected or associated by 7 and 9n lord, 
in one or the other way. If Mars is retrograde, it will behave nicely and 
here inactive Kuja dosha will take place. Married life will be free from 
miseries and maladies in that case. 

Some of the other birth charts, which were also considered, have 
following details: 


Female DOB 11.06.1968 TOB 19:20 Lucknow BI/72 
Male DOB 05.10.1945 TOB 14:00 Damoh B1/165 
Male DOB 26.05.1974 TOB 22:00 Ajamgarh K1/81 
Male DOB 02.05.1944 TOB 10:04 Montgomery K1/95 
Male DOB 01.07.1970 TOB 18:30 Allahabad = J1/67 
Male DOB 21.12.1960 TOB 07:57 Delhi QI/154 
Male DOB 09.03.1976 TOB 03:20 Jammu QI/173 


NAWRYNS 


KUJA DOSHA DUE TO MARS IN THE SEVENTH HOUSE 295 


Ilustration No. 4.4.18 Horoscope No. 75 

Born on 29.11.1975 at 09:20:00 hrs. 

Place: Luc know Long 80:56 ELat. 26:51 N 
Balance of Mahadasha of Moon 1Y 9M 26D 


PLANETARY DEGREES 


Asc 258 53: 48 
Sun 222 46 10 
Moon 170 54 Il 
Mars 65 29 20R 
Mercury 222 55 «13 
Jupiter 351 26 S4R 
Venus 177 33 05 
Saturn 99 15 41R 
Rahu 208 18 10 


Ketu 28 «#18 «10 


296 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 
Mars in 7” house 
For Capricorn Ascendant 


For Capricorn ascendant, placement of Mars in the 7" house in Cancer, 
has been considered to cause no Kuja dosha, according to various 
aphorisms in Sanskrit mentioned earlier. 

Mars owns the 4* and the I!" houses, for Capricorn ascendant. 
Therefore, Mars is not a benefic for this ascendant. In Cancer Mars gets 
debilitated. Moon and Mars are friends. Why Moon is debilitated in 
Martian sign Scorpio and why Mars gets debilitated in Moon's sign 
Cancer! Here we attempt honestly to know the result of Mars in Cancer 
in the 7* honse. 

Jeevnath mentions in "Bhava Kautuhalam" in chapter }X sloka 13 


HIG HeantlteettMogatrd © —aeaiead efrarat 
AARSHTAAC: | 

aacaata fad wsiewdateriaa awafa 8a 
aeorety f 4 


ie. If in a horoscope Mars is in Cancer in the 7” house, the woman will 
suffer loss of her husband. In case Mars and Saturn are conjoined in 
the 7* house in Leo, she will certainly suffer widowhood. She may do 
prostitution in spite of her background of a noble family. 

We have found that Mars in Cancer in the 7* house is not so harsh 
or cruel to cause widowhood. Acharya Jeevnath is correct in saying that 
only when Mars and Saturn are conjoined in Cancer in 7* house or there 
is mutual aspect between Mars and Saturn or otherwise Satum joins 
Martian sign Aries or Scorpio, widowhood takes place. In case Mars and 
Venus are conjoined in the 7 house, or Venus joins the ascendant or 
falls in Aries or Scorpio, only then the woman may go for licentious 
deeds. 

We have observed that Mars in the 7" house in Cancer will not create 
havoc in married life, unless it is afflicted by Satum or Venus gets 
afflicted by Mars. It is also important that Cancer is a moving sign and 
placement of Mars in moving sign curtails Kuja dosha automatically. 
Thus, Mars in Cancer in 7* may bring unhappiness, distress, despair, 
disappointment, dissatisfaction or dejection but that will not result into 
loss of spouse or divorce, until unless evil affliction of Kuja dosha are 
present. 


KUJA DOSHA DUE TO MARS IN THE SEVENTH HOUSE 297 


INlustration no. 4.4.19 Horoscope no. 76 


The native of Capricorn ascendant has Mars and Sun in the 7* house. 
The 7" lord Moon is conjoined with Venus, who is also a yogakaraka 
and is under debilitation in the 9" house. Moon is also placed close to 
Venus in inimical sign. Venus and Moon obtain navamsa of Saturn. 
Whenever Venus and Moon are adversely associated, or are close to 
each other, it creates disaster. Thus both, Mars and Venus, are 
afflicted in one or the other way. As a result native got married 1* on 
10.2.96. Due to misunderstandings the wife divorced him on 8.1.99 
and filed the case of dowry..He went to jail and had to be there for 
100 days. Second marriage took place with an ordinary looking girl 
on 9.3.99 but he was again divorced on the charges of dowry and 
sent to jail, where he had to stay from 13.2.2003 to 8.4.2003. The native 
is a very simple and ordinary man of low status earning around 6 
thousand per ‘month. In both the cases he suffered a lot due to his 
misfortune only. A case of dowry is still going on. The native is therefore 
having very tough time. Affliction of the 9* house with 7" lord has 
resulted into such havoc. The 9" lord Mercury is placed in the 8* house 
over the axis of Rahu and Ketu, which should also be taken into 
consideration. 


Illustration no. 4.4.20 Horoscope no. 77 


The native is an IRS officer presently working as Joint income tax 
commissioner. Jupiter and Mars are placed in the 7" house. Jupiter is 
exalted in 7* and Mars obtains Neech Bhang Raj Yog. Lord of the 7* 
house Moon occupies the ascendant. Thus, Jupiter and Mars are under 
mutual aspect with 7 lord Moon. What should it do in respect of her 
marriage? She should marry a good-looking boy at an early age. But 
it did not happen so due to Kuja dosha. She is most ordinary looking 
lady with short height. She got attracted towards one of her inspectors, 
who was much lower in status, though quite good looking, fair, tall and 
smart. In spite of lack of willingness of the boy he was forced into 
wedlock which took place on 7.12.96. Married life does not appear to 
be happy.. The difference in their status and working in the same 
department has resulted into marital problems but the marriage is intact 
and will remain so. 


In this horoscope Yogkaraka Venus occupies the 8* house in Leo. 
This is also not good for happy married life. 


298 AN INSIGHT INIO KUJA DOSHA 


TIilustration No. 4.4.19 Horoscope No. 76 

Bom on 68.1970 at 17:40:00 hrs. 

Place: Kanpur Long 80:19 E Lat. 26:27 N 
Balance of Mahadasha of Sun TY 7M 20D 


PLANETARY DEGREES 


Asc 270 : 55: 19 
Sun 110 : 09: 48 
Moon 156 : 21: 21 
Mars 108 : 53¢ 28 
Mercury 135 : 33: 19 
Jupiter 185 ; 22: 02 
Venus 154. 29: 04 
Saturn 28 : 25: 50 
Rahu 309 : 25: 55 


Ketu 129 : 25: 55 


KUJA DOSHA DUE TO MARS IN THE SEVENTH HOUSE 299 


Illustration No. 4.4.20 Horoscope No. 77 
Bom on 25.09.1966 at 14:58:00 hrs. 
Place: Kanpur Long 80:19 E Lat. 26:27 N 
Balance of Mahadasha of Moon 1Y 4M 10D 
LAGNA 
4 
UP MAR 
DEGREES 
280: 19: 14 
158 : 28: 38 
Moon 291 : 30: 57 
Mars 115 ; 59: 07 
Mercury 170; 15: 55 
Jupiter 96 : 16: 58 
Venus 146 : 56: 52 
Satum 332 : 25: 28R 
Rahu 23: 49: 54 


Ketu 203 : 49: 54 


300 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


Illustration no. 4.4.21 Horoscope no. 78 


Here, Mars is placed in Cancer with 6* lord Mercury and Ketu. Mars 
obtains navamsa of its exaltation. The 7™ lord Moon occupies the 12" 
house. The native is unmarried even at the age of 50 years though he 
is quite handsome, smart and meritorious. Many Rajayogas are present 
in this birth chart but Adhi Yoga is the most important one. Yogkaraka 
Venus occupies the 6"" house, opposing Moon placed in the 12". Moon- 
Venus mutual aspect is extremely adverse and both these obtain the 
navamsa of Venus. Here Mars is responsible for denying any happiness 
of marriage. 

In a number of cases, we have found that Mars in the 7 house in 
Cancer may or may not do very bad, depending upon the association, 
with Mars and the 7" lord. Mars- Ketu, Mars-Sun, Mars-Rahu, Mars- 
Saturn, Mars-Jupiter, Mars-Mercury combinations are quite adverse in 
7" house. 

The author has explained in "Bhava Kautuhalam” that debilitated 
Mars in 7" brings widowhood but we believe strongly that only Mars 
in Cancer in 7* cannot do so. If Satum is with Mars, or has mutual aspect 
with Mars, only then the death of husband is possible. In one such case 
Saturn occupies Capricorn with Jupiter and Mars in 7" and 7" lord Moon 
joins the 2"* house in Aquarius. In spite of Jupiter's aspect over 7* and 
Mars, she had very late marriage and soon after suffered from the agony 
of widowhood. 

Thus, Mars in 7* in Cancer will not harm much in respect of life 
of spouse but married life will be unhappy .We don't agree that Kuja 
dosha gets neutralised if Mars joins Cancer in 7*. In many cases if Mars 
is unafflicted in 7" in Cancer, the married life had been smooth. It is 
only the aspect and association of malefic planets whose influence 
enhance the intensity of Mangli Dosha resulting into unhappiness, 
divorce, or death. 


Observation No. 10.7 


Placement of Mars in the 7" house under debilitation, i. e. in Cancer 
will not neutralise Kuja dosha. Marital maladies, tensions, difference of 
opinion, and conflicts between the couple are likely to take place. 
Affliction of Mars will enhance the adversity and intensity of Kuja dosha 
resulting into denial of marriage, death of spouse or divorce. 

Some of the other birth charts, which were also considered, have 
following details: 


KUJA DOSHA DUETO MARS IN THE SEVENTH HOUSE 301 


Illustration No. 4.4.21 Horoscope No. 78 

Bom on 20.08.1953 at 17:47:00 hrs. 

Place: Ayodhya Long 82:12 E Lat. 26:47 N 
Balance of Mahadasha of Ketu 3Y 10M 26D 


DOK 


PLANETARY DEGREES 


Asc 290 : 36: 05 
Sun 123 : 57: 27 
Moon 245 : 52:51 
Mars 110 : 44: 26 
Mercury 107 : 32: 08 
Jupiter 58 : 36: 40 
Venus 85 : 37: 14 
Saturn 179 : 56: 09 
Rahu 280 : O01: 03 
Ketu 100 : 01: 03 


302 AN INSIGHT INITIO KUJA DOSHA 


Female DOB 31.10.1962 TOB 13:00 - (9) 
Male DOB 03.07.1955 TOB 08:30 Lucknow (14) 
Female DOB 22.08.1966 TOB 16:25 Azamgarh (17) 
Male DOB 23.11.1945 TOB 11:22 Rangpur C1/319 
Male DOB 06.08.1970 TOB_ 17:40 Kanpur J1/29 
Male DOB 15.06.1974 TOB 21:30 Khurja V1/82 
Female DOB 16.03.1980 TOB 02:45 Bulandshar V 1/74 


NAW WN LE 


Mars in 7™ house 
For Aquarius ascendant 


Placement of Mars in the 7" house, for Aquarius ascendant, does not 
neutralise or cancel Kuja dosha. Here Mars is placed in the sign of Sun, 
Leo, and the Sun and Mars are friends and hot in nature. Both are 
aggressive, courageous and energetic. Mars is violent but Sun is not. The 
placement of Mars in Leo in 7 house will create disasters and will ruin 
married life. Here Mars owns the 3"! and the 10" houses, therefore a 
malefic for Aquarius ascendant. It has been stated in shlokas that Mars 
does not canse Kuja dosha if it joins Leo or Aquarius anywhere in the 
birth chart. We are not at all in agreement with this view. 


Illustration no. 4.4.22 Horoscope no. 79 


The native was a class one officer in a govt. department. He is an 
electrical" engineer and topper of his time. He got married in June 92 
during sub period of Yogkaaraka Venus in the major period of Mercury. 
He was blessed with a danghter in June 93 during the same dasa bhukti. 
Just after 30 days of the birth of daughter, the wife disappeared from 
the house in Roorkee city where they were living. In spite of best efforts 
of the whole family they could not search the wife of the native. Parents 
of the girl sued the native and his parents that they have compelled her 
to suicide as she was facing terrible plight with them. 70 years old parents 
and the native were sent to jail. The bail was not granted to them for 
more than three months. Later the case was decided in favour of the girl. 
The native and his family had no way out except to compromise with 
them at their conditions. They had to pay rupees 10 lakhs to them for 
compromise and withdrawal of the case. Soon after withdrawal, the wife 
of the native, who was presumed dead, came out of her home or where 
she was living secretly. 


In fact she was in deep love with a boy and it became impossible 
for her to live without him. Therefore, immediately after one month of 


KUJA DOSHA DUE TO MARS IN THE SEVENTH HOUSE 303 


Illustration No. 4.4.22 Horoscope No. 79 

Bom on 2.7.1963 at 23:01:00 hrs. 

Place: Roorkee Long 77:53 E Lat. 29:52 N 
Balance of Mahadasha of Jupiter 4Y 9M 16D 


Asc 323: 1: 15 
Sun 76 : 46: 05 
Moon 209 : 19: 06 
Mars 142 : 22: 45 
Mercury 63 : 52: 05 
Jupiter 323 : 53: 19 
Venus 60 : 52: 14 
Saturn 299 :05:27R 
Rahu 87 : 04: 26 


Ketu 267 : 04: 26 


304 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


begetting a child she eloped with her boyfriend. The plan was foolproof. 
The native had to suffer a lot as he was terminated from class one job 
and could not get any suitable and appropriate job so far. He has also 
decided not to marry again and is passing a lonely life with very old 
parents. 

In this birth chart Mars occupies the 7” house in Leo and is 
unaspected by any benefic or malefic planet. The lord of the 7'" house, 
Sun, falls over the axis of Rahn and Ketu, and in conjunction with 
Mercury and inimical Venus. Mars obtains navamsa of Venus, and is in 
conjunction with Venus in the 7" house in navamsa chart. Thus, the Mars 
in Leo caused great tragedy with the native in respect of wife and married 
life. 


Illustration no. 4.4.23 Horoscope no. 80 


This is a case of love marriage, which took place on 1.10.79 after a long 
courtship of 5 years. During courtship, she noticed that in spite of safety 
measures taken, she has conceived. However, she got married around 
4 months after conception with her fiancée who was very handsome, 
smart and brilliant. At this time he was a multimillionaire. However, 
placement of Mars, Venns and Sun in Leo has ruined her married life. 
The husband now mishandles her and beats her miserably. At frequent 
intervals she has been tortured in various ways. She was living with him 
only to rear her children but now she has filed the suit of divorce to 
come out of her present life, which is full of tragedies. Thus, we see 
that Mars in Leo is extremely adverse. Here the adversity is reduced 
because 7* lord Sun is also associated in 7* house. We have observed 
earlier also that whenever Mars is in association with Sun the adversities 
are reduced. 


Illustration no. 4.4.24 Horoscope no. 81 


This is the horoscope of one of the top most industrialist of the country. 
Mars and Venns are conjoined in the 7" house in Leo. The 7° lord Sun 
occupies the 8* house. Mars obtains Vargottam navamsa but the lord 
of 7", Sun, is Peramed between malefics, Mars and Saturn. Here 
Yogkaraka Venus in 7" gave a dynamic, exceptionally beautiful, very 
intelligent and decent wife. The native moves with innumerable young 
women around the world. The wife is chaste and quite sincere and 
truthful to him but married life is unhappy and they have hardly lived 
together. Both are running their independent industries and have very 
less concern with each other. We believe that conjunction of Mars and 


KUJA DOSHA DUETO MARS IN THE SEVENTH HOUSE 


Illustration No. 4.4.23 
Born on 59.1955 
Place: Moradabad 
Balance of Mahadasha of 


Mercury 
Jupiter 
Venus 
Satum 
Rahu 
Ketu 


LAGNA 


305 


Horoscope No. 80 

at 17:45:00 hrs. 

Long 78:45 E Lat. 28:50 N 
Mercury LY 3M 5D 


306 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


Illustration No. 4.4.24 Horoscope No. 81 

Born on 29.9.1953 at 04:56:00 hrs. 

Place: Kanpur Long 80:19 E Lat. 26:27 N 
Balance of Mahadasha of Rahu 16Y 9M OD 


Asc 322 : 36. 21 
Sun 162: 48: 14 
Moon 67 : 35: 28 
Mars 136: O1: 21 
Mercury 178 : 59; 39 
Jupiter 62 : 51: 30 
Venus 133: 14: 52 
Saturn 184: 01: 18 
Rahu 277 : 33: 34 
Ketu 97 : 33: 34 
NAVAMSA 


KET 


KUJA DOSHA DUE TO MARS IN THE SEVENTH HOUSE 307 


Venus in 7" in Leo is worst, as compared to other signs. In this case 
7" lord Sun joins the 8" house. This is not so adverse. If the Sun had 
joined the sixth house, the results would have been further adverse 
towards separation. 

In another case Mars is placed in the 7'* house and Satum joins the 
ascendant. Both, Mars and Saturn, aspect each other. The 7'" lord Sun 
joins the 11" house. Venus, Mercury and Ketu occupy the 10” house 
and Jupiter aspects Mars and Sun. The married life of the native is 
unhappy due to difference of opinion but seriousness is not there. 
Jupiter's aspect over the 7" house and 7” lord has saved the native from 
serious marital maladies. 


Observations 11.7 


For Aquarius ascendant, placement of Mars in Leo in 7" house will cause 
active Kuja dosha. Married life will not be happy. Problems and miseries 
will be aggravated if Venus conjoins Mars in the 7* house. Venns and 
Sun have inimical relationship, therefore if the Sun is also associated 
with Venus, married life will be disastrous. If the 7* lord Sun joins the 
6" house, adversities will be further aggravated. The aspect of lagna lord 
Satum over Mars will not aggravate adversities provided Mars is 
unafflicted in the 7" house. Conjunction of Mars and Venus in the 7” 
will give beautiful life partner but he or she may be adulterous. The 
native himself will also be involved in licentious deeds. 

Some of the other birth charts, which were also considered, have 
following details: 


Male DOB 01.12.1949 TOB 12:40 Karnal (329) 
Male DOB 25.12.1964 TOB 10:30 Sultanpur Q2/62 
Male DOB 14.09.1970 TOB 16:38 Bhadoi S1/41 
Female DOB 21.09.1970 TOB = 17:20 Jaipur S1/55 
Male DOB 24.06.1980 TOB 10:10 Lucknow Q1/170 
Male DOB 14.12.1964 TOB 12:05 Bareilly  Q1/281 
Male DOB 26.06.1948 TOB 22:35 Lucknow RI/59 


Mars in 7" honse 


SLOG Bn 


For Pisces ascendant 


For Pisces ascendant, the placement of Mars in Virgo in the 7* honse 
does not break marriage unless affliction of Mars by Saturn or Venus 
is there. If Mars is conjoined with Saturn the adversity will make the 
manried life problem some. Here in the 7" house Mercury is the owner 


308 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


of Virgo sign and thus Mars is ruled by Mercury. Mars will be the owner 
of 2"? and 9" honses, for Pisces ascendant. Due to ownership of 9" house 
Mars should bring good luck after marriage. Mars rules 2" house 
therefore also becomes a Maarkesh, for Pisces ascendant. During the 
period of navamsa lord of Mars, adversities will take place. The married 
life will be generally harmonious if Mars is unafflicted in Virgo im the 
7*. After marriage there will be increase in income and happiness. In 
most of the cases, in male nativities, we have found that Mars here does 
not give good-looking wife. Wife will be short tempered and the husband 
will be compromising. In case of affliction of Mars, unhappy marriage 
or two marriages are likely to take place. 


Illustration no. 4.4.25 Horoscope no. 82 


She was born in Pisces ascendant. Mars is in Virgo in the 7* house. 
7* lord Mercury joins the 10* house in association with Sun and Venus. 
Lagna lord Jupiter and fifth lord Moon conjoin in the 2™! house. This 
shows happy family life. Mars is unaspected by any malefic or benefic 
planet and joins navamsa of its exaltation. She got married on 27.1.89. 
There was mutual divorce with her husband on 16.8.90 as the husband 
was physically unfit for marital happiness. Her = marriage took place 
on }.7.95 after a love affair, at 30 years of age. Shé has been blessed 
with a son after 7 months of marriage on 8.9.95. However, Mars in Virgo 
resulted into 2" marriage after divorce. She is leading happy married 
life. Other combinations of divorce are also present in this horoscope 
like Saturn in 12*. We intend to say that Mars in Virgo in the 7* house 
does create problems in married life in early stages but ultimately, one 
has smooth married life. 


Illustration no. 4.4.26 Horoscope no. 83 


The native is a Karma Kandi Pandit working for a great organisation 
of country. Saturn and Rahu join /agna where as Mars, Ketu and Jupiter 
join the 7*. The 7" lord Mercury occupies the 8" house. In spite of such 
an adverse combination the native is living life peacefully, without much 
upheavals. The conjugal life of the native, though, is quarrelsome. The 
native underwent mental depression due to such problems before and 
after marriage. Mars did not canse any serious havoc, death, or divorce. 
For unhappiness of married life conjunction of Ketu and Mars in tiie 
7*, placement of /agna lord Jupiter in the 7 and conjunction of Satu 
and Rahn in ascendant is responsible. Mars in 7* house did not harm 
the native or his wife. 


KUJA DOSHA DUE TO MARS IN THE SEVENTH HOUSE 309 


Illustration No. 4.4.25 Horoscope No. 82 

Born on 12.1.1965 at 14:00:00 hrs. 

Place: Lucknow Long 80:56 E Lat. 26:51 N 

Balance of Mahadasha of Venus 17Y 0M 2D 
LAGNA 


KS 


Va es 


PLANETARY DEGREES 


Asc 343 : 284 37 
Sun 268 : 26: 59 
Moon 15: 19: 43 
Mars 153 : 04: 17 
Mercury 245 ; 33: 32 
Jupiter 22 : 44:44 
Venus 246 : 30: 17 
Satum 309 : 00: 47 
Rahu 59: 19; 39 
Ketu 239 : 19; 39 
NAVAMSA 


nex 


dX 


310 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


Illustration No. 4.4.26 Horoscope No. 83 

Born on 20.11.1968 at 15:00:00 hrs. 

Place: Lucknow Long 80:56 E Lat. 26:51 N 
Balance of Mahadasha of Saturn 15Y 9M 15D 


MAR KET 
Jup 


DEGREES 

354 : 22 : 53 

214 + 42 : 43 
Moon 215 : 34: 12 
Mars 163 : 19 : 29 
Mercury 205 : 15 : 46 
Jupiter 157 : 18: 04 
Venus 253 : 12: 08 
Saturn 356 : 07: 46R 
Rahu 345 : 06: 04 
Ketu 165 : 06 : 04 


NAVAMSA 


KUJA DOSHA DUE TO MARS IN THE SEVENTH HOUSE 311 


In varions other cases too, Mars in 7” has not cansed any disasters. 
They all had one marriage and their married life is smooth and 
happy. 


Observation 12.7 


For Pisces ascendant placement of Mars in Virgo will not canse any 
serious adversity to the married life of the native. This is due to the 
ownership of the 9* house by Mars. We have found that this is inactive 
Kuja dosha and may not be taken seriously unless other malefic 
combinations and affliction of Mars are also present in the birth chart. 

Some of the other birth charts, which were also considered, have 
following details: 


1. Male DOB 15.10.1925 TOB 28/05 Bulandshahar  LI/6]1 
Tshta 


2. Female DOB 20.04.1967 TOB 12:00 Dharmshala E1/47 
3. Male DOB 12.04.1935 TOB 05:03 Lucknow C1/362 
4. Male DOB 21.10.1940 TOB 17:02 Muzzafarnagar K2/43 
5. Female DOB 18.07.1965 TOB 22:50 Kanpur C1/286 
6. Female DOB 12.01.1965 TOB 11:00 Lucknow C1/299 
7. Female DOB 12.07.1982 TOB 23:44 Faridabad C1/302 
8. Male DOB 25.03.1982 TOB 06:28 Delhi 1/7 


Comments and Conclusion 


It is believed that the placement of Mars in the 7* house gives rise to 
fateful events e.g. death of the spouse, divorce, miserable married life, 
accidents, illness, operations and burns etc. It is also believed that if Mars 
falls in the 7" house in own, exalted or movable signs or in Leo or 
Aquarius signs, there will be no Kuja dosha. It is also widely accepted 
that the conjunction, or aspect, of Moon or Jupiter with Mars in the 7* 
house, or anywhere, will neutralise all the adversities caused by Kuja 
dosha. 

Some of these statements are correct, some partially correct, while 
remaining do not appear to be correct. It is most unscientific to say that 
a woman will suffer widowhood if Mars occupies the 7" house. We have 
done a lot of work on the aspect of marriage and have frequently penned 
our observations in various books and astrological journals. We have 
realised that there is great need of research on the practical aspect of 
Kuja dosha. We have collected hundreds of horoscopes for a particular 
placement of Mars giving rise to Kuja dosha. Mars in the 7" and the 
8* house is considered to be the worst. We have studied innumerable 


312 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


horoscopes of various ascendants where Mars occupies the 7‘ house, 
and have observed that exalted Mars in the 7* house, i. e. for Cancer 
ascendant, is not so adverse. Here, with Mars in 7", one may lead a happy 
married life with his wife unless the 7" lord or the 7" house is afflicted 
heavily. Similarly Mars in Pisces or Sagittarius, i. e. in Jupiter's sign, 
in the 7* house will not cause adversities like death, divorce and other 
marital maladies. If Mars is placed in Aries or Scorpio in the 7* house, 
i.e. in own sign, it will be disastrous for marital happiness. One may 
lose the spouse in any accident or mishap. One will be adulterous and 
commit licentious deeds. Most of the problems in married life come due 
to such undesirable activities and many times women suffer from the 
pangs of widowhood, if Mars occupies the 7” house in its own sign. 
As far as placement of Mars in Gemini or Virgo in concerned, it may 
cause separation, if occupies Gemini under affliction. Mars in Virgo in 
the 7* house is not adverse. Thus in airy sign, Gemini, Mars will give 
adverse results in the 7 house, whereas in earthy sign, Virgo, it will 
not give adverse results. 


If Mars occupies the 7* house in the sign of Venus, Libra or Taurus, 
it is quite adverse for happy marriage, as one will enter into camal 
activities due to excess of passion. One will ignore his wife or husband. 
This situation of Mars may ruin one's life. Death or separation will take 
place under such condition. If Mars is in the 7" house in Aquarius, in 
airy sign, it will be quite adverse for the spouse. Loss, physical ailments, 
other miseries, separation etc. are likely to happen. Mars under debili- 
tation in 7*, in watery sign Cancer, is adverse. There may be denial of 
marriage or separation. Even in case of multiple marriages no physical 
enjoyment will be there. Differences arise, with husband over certain 
issues. If Moon is well placed, adversities will be reduced. 


Mars in fiery sign Leo in 7* house gives the worst result. In many 
cases such Mars gives rise to love marriage. Even then separation takes 
place or there is complete disinterest in spouse and interest in other 
person. The married life will be unhappy. 

In other words, if Mars is harmful we call it active or effective Kuja 
dosha and if it is not dangerous we call it inactive Kuja dosha. Aries, 
Leo and Sagittarius are fiery signs. Mars creates active Kuja dosha in 
Aries and Leo but not in Sagittarius. Aries, Taurus, Virgo and Capricorn 
are earthy signs, out of which Mars causes active Kuja dosha in Taums 
only and not in Virgo or Capricorn. It gives rise to inactive Kuja dosha 
in Virgo and Capricorn. Gemini, Libra, Aquarius are airy signs where 
it will give rise to active Kuja dosha. There may be worst results in Libra, 


KUJA DOSHA DUE TO MARS IN THE SEVENTH HOUSE 313 


worse in Aquarius and bad in Gemini. Cancer, Scorpio, Pisces are watery 
signs. Mars gives adverse results and becomes active in Scorpio, Cancer 
and becomes inactive in Pisces. 

Just in a view.... 


. Aries ascendant: Mars in Libra causes active Kuja dosha. 
Taurus ascendant: Mars in Scorpio causes active Kuja dosha. 
Gemini ascendant: Mars in Sagittarius causes inactive Kuja dosha. 
. Cancer ascendant: Mars in Capricorn causes inactive Kuja dosha. 
Leo ascendant: Mars in Aquarius causes active Kuja dosha. 

. Virgo ascendant: Mars in Pieces causes inactive Kuja dosha. 

. Libra ascendant: Mars in Aries causes active Kuja dosha. 

. Scorpio ascendant: Mars in Taurus causes active Kuja dosha. 

. Sagittarius ascendant: Mars in Gemini causes inactive Kuja dosha. 
10. Capricorn ascendant: Mars in Cancer causes active Kuja dosha. 
11. Aquarius ascendant: Mars in Leo causes active Kuja dosha. 

12. Pisces ascendant: Mars in Virgo causes inactive Kuja dosha. 


CaonanRWNd — 


Thus, Mars in 7* does not give rise to Kuja dosha in Sagittarius, Aries, 
Capricorn, Pisces and Virgo. In the remaining eight signs Mars gives 
adverse results in 7* house like death of spouse, separation, ailments, 
lack of involvement, differences and complete loss of conjugal bliss etc. 

We have thus observed that the placement of Mars ‘in the 7* house 
is not always adverse. Apart from the observations made’ above for all 
the ascendants the results can be modified largely if Mars in 7* house 
is afflicted by malefics or 7" lord has a negative placement in ‘rik’ 
houses. The exact result of Mars will depend upon various other factors 
as well, such as the aspects of malefics or benefics, navamsa occupied 
by Mars or the planets (benefic or malefic) placed in the sign, navamsa 
or constellation of Mars. Those planets that fall in Mragshira, Chitra 
or Dhanishtha will also influence Mars and those who will join Aries 
or Scorpio will also modify the positive or negative results of Mars. An . 
overall judgement of Kuja dosha or aspects, as mentioned above, 
requires serious consideration, so as to reach the final result rendered 
by Mars in the 7* house in regard to marriage and married life. 


de Se te 


fen fart’ vatet oa oarat fx wey 
eur active fort cat fre waea ay / 
According to Acharya Chanky a, knowledge is one’s friend in foreign 


land, wife is friend in house: medicine is friend to an ailing man while 
religion only is the friend to a dying person. 


CHAPTER 4.5 


KUJA DOSHA DUE TO MARS 
IN THE EIGHT HOUSE 


that the eighth house is worst and most malefic one, as it 

represents death. How wrong it is to label the eighth house as 
the house of death whereas we should call it the ‘house of life’. This is 
always the 12” house that hampers longevity, as it indicates the loss of 
life. Father's longevity should be judged from the 8* house as it is 12* 
from 9*. The 8" house indicates life thus 12° from 8* ic. 7* rules 
loss of life. There is so much confusion and misunderstanding about the 
8" house that 4 complete voluminous book is required for explanation. 
The 8'" house is 10" from 11" and 11" from 10", therefore, this house 
indicates accomplishments of ambition in regard to profession and 
placement at high level of administration and management. It denotes 
the group of masses under the native's control. We don't intend to explain 
the secrets of the 8" house here but we have to explain the effect of 
Mars if placed in 8* house, for various ascendants. 


Dr. B. V. Raman has also stated this fact in "Hindu Predictive 
Astrology" chapter XXX on female horoscopy, that marital happiness 
must be adjudged from the 8" house. From the 7'" house, passion, her 
husband's and her own character and fortune should be determined. 

Dr. B. V. Raman has pointed out following combinations for 
widowhood: 

1. Conjunction of the lords of 7" and 8" house with malefic 
combinations. 


ik eighth house is the most misunderstood house. It is believed 


KUJA DOSH DUE TO MARS IN THE EIGHTH HOUSE 315 


2. Rahu and Moon in the 8" house with evil aspects. 

. Lord of the 7 house with Satur and aspected by Mars. 

4. Moon & Rahu in the 8" house and the lord of 7” with Satum 
aspected by Mars. 

5. The conjunction of the lords of 1* and 8" houses in the 12" house, 
with a malefic aspect of Mars on the 8" house. 

6. The 7" house and its lord between two malefics, without any 
beneficial aspect 


w 


It is believed that Mars in the 8" house brings loss of husband ie. 
widowhood takes place soon after marriage. Placement of Mars in the 
8" house is really disastrous for female natives. The 8" house represents 
'Saubhagya', ‘Suhag', i.e. ‘Mangalya’ of a female. If Mars joins the 8" 
house in the horoscope of a female she may suffer. 


(a) Poverty or 

(b) Denial of children 

(c) Serious problem of health of husband, his accident, deforma- 
tion -of limb or mental depression. 

(d) Divorce or mental and marital maladies, serious differences, 
misbehaviour and complete loss of marital harmony. 

(e) Loss of husband, unnatural death of husband in accident or 
any other mishap. 


Let it be made clear that in the horoscope of females the eighth house 
rules the loss of husband or loss of marital happiness but it is not so 
in case of male nativity. In that case 8" house indicates longevity, span 
of life, cause of death etc. 

Presence of Mars in 8" house in the horoscope of males will result 
into accidents, operations, fall from the roof, air crash, or fire etc. One 
may suffer from many diseases of blood and muscles. But here, Mars 
will not kill the wife of the native. We have found that many persons 
having Mars in the 8" house are leading a happy married life, though 
they suffered from a number of accidents or underwent serious opera- 
tions. Men are not mangli, if Mars is placed in 8" house, as per our 
humble observations. This is so because such a Mars dose not cause any 
adversity in married life, even then it has been mentioned that presence 
of Mars in the 8" house gives rise to Kuja dosha, equally for men and 
women. Wife will be distressed if any thing happens to her husband. 
An accident resulting into loss of any limb of the husband will bring 
continuous sufferings to the native. 


316 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


Let us conclude that the placement of Mars in the 8* house in the 
horoscope of women will result into problems regarding marriage and 
married life but that will not be so in the horoscope of men. We opine 
humbly that if a man having Mars in 8" house gets married with a non- 
mangli girl, there will be no mishappening. In case, a woman has Mars 
in her 8* house the husband must essentially have Kuja dosha in her 
birth chart otherwise marital disasters like separation, death or destruc- 
tion will take place. This is for the first time that we are expressing 
humble but daring observation in regard to Kuja dosha. We have reached 
this conclusion after going through many dozen horoscopes of such 
couples where Mars was placed in the 8" house, in a male nativity, and 
the lady was not having Kuja dosha or was having very minor evil of 
Mars in her horoscope. 

Let ns now go through the practical case studies of natives, ascendant 
wise, having Mars in their 8" house and see what went wrong in their 
respective lives. 


Mars in 8"" honse 
For Aries Ascendant 


For Aries ascendant, the placement of Mars in Scorpio in the 8" 
house, will not have any impact on the married life of the male natives 
but it will create problems for female natives. Here, Mars in the 8" house 
may cause obstacles in marriage, or the marriage may be broken after 
settlement. Here, Mars is the /agna lord, therefore in 8" house, in own 
sign Scorpio, and may not harm women as well. Mars will aspect the 
11" house, the 2" house and the 3" honse. The 2"¢ house pertains to 
family of the native, therefore, minor disturbances in the family life may 
take place. 


Illustration no. 4.5.1 Horoscope no. 84 


The native is a senior !.A.S. Officer. He is born in Aries ascendant. Mars 
& Ketu are posited in the 8* house in Scorpio. Retrograde Saturn joins 
the 1] house, thus there is mntual aspect between Mars and Saturn. 
Conjunction of Ketu and Mars enhances the intensity of Kuja dosha, but 
as has been repeatedly said the placement of Mars in the 8* honse for 
male nativity will not bring havoc in married life. The native got married 
on 27.1.93 and his married life is quite happy and prosperous. His 1* 
son died in infancy. However, he was again blessed with a fortunate son 
and is now leading a family life full of conjugal bliss, enthusiasm and 


KUJA DOSH DUE TO MARS IN THE EIGHTH HOUSE 


Illustration No.4.5.1 

279.1965 
Allahabad 
Balance of Mahadasha of 


Bom on 
Place: 


RAH 
SUN 
MER 
VEN 


Mercury 
Jupiter 
Venus 
Saturn 
Rahu 


Ketu 


211 


Horoscope No. 84 
at 19:26:00 hrs. 
Long 81:50 E Lat. 25:28 N 
Rahu 9Y 5M 11D 


8 
on for 


PLANETARY DEGREES 
2: 
160: 
193 : 
> 55:55 
160: 
> 08: 17 
241: 12 
: 54; 22 
. 05; 15 
: 05: 15 


27: 46 
52: 54 
00: 07 


50: 58 


317 


318 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


prosperity. Let us illustrate the case of his wife as well. This will assist 
in exploring the cancellation of Kuja dosha. 


Illustration no. 4.5.2 Horoscope no. 51 


This horoscope belongs to the wife of above native. She was bom in 
Leo ascendant. A yogkaaraka Mars is present in the 4" house hence it 
gives rise to Kuja dosha. She is born in Ardra constellation and Gemini 
sign whereas her husband (case mentioned above) was bom in Swati 
constellation in Gemini. 27 points matched with each other and there 
is no nadi dosha, and there is strong graha matri between lords of their 
moon sign. This is a good matching. According to established norms of 
Kuja dosha the husband is strong mangli therefore the wife or husband 
should have snffered marital disharmony due to one or the other reason. 
We, therefore, opine that male native will not suffer from evils of Kuja 
dosha when Mars joins the 8" house. While female native will be 
subjected to various miseries of conjugal life under the same situation 
of Mars. * 


Illustration no. 4.53 Horoscope no. 85 


The native is a civil engineer, working as a principal in a government 
institute since Oct. 99 since the age of 30 years. He was bom in Aries 
ascendant & Mars is placed in the 8" house, under the aspect of no 
malefic planet. The 7* lord Venus is retrograde in ascendant, in 
conjunction with 10" and 11" lord Satum. Native got married on 26.1.99 
with a beautiful, talented and convent educated girl. He is leading an 
extremely happy married life. He is prosperous and has also been blessed. 
with a son on 7.11.2000. Thus the Mars has done no harm to married 
life of the native, in spite of hemming of 7" house between malefics. 
The wife of native, whose horoscope is being mentioned under, is not 
mangli. 


Illustration no. 4.5.4 Horoscope no. 86 


She was bom in Leo ascendant with Venus in the lagna. Yogkaraka 
Mars is placed in the 11* house. The 7" lord Satum falls in the 12" 
house with the 12" Jord Moon. Combination of Satum and Moon cannot 
be appreciated. The ascendant is also hemmed between malefics like Sun 
and Saturn. Venus falls in inimical sign in own nakshatra in ascendant. 
Retrograde Jupiter who joins the 8"' house, aspects the /agna lord Sun, 
2° and 11" Jord Mercury, the 6" and 7" lord Saturn and 12" lord Moon. 
It is believed that when Venus joins the sign of Juminaries and is hemmed 


KUJA DOSH DUE TO MARS IN THE EIGHTH HOUSE 319 


Illustration No. 4.5.3 Horoscope No. 85 
Born on 30.3.1969 at 07:58:00 hrs. 
Place: Meerut Long 77:42 E Lat. 29:00 N 
Balance of Mahadasha of Ketu 6Y 5M 3D 
LAGNA 


SUN ASC 
MER VEN 
RAH SAT 


SUN MER 
RAH 
(2 


IRSA 
Hes} ROK 


PLANETARY DEGREES 


Asc 20 : 10: 43 
Sun 345 : 47: 21 
Moon 121 : 04. 56 
Mars 228 : 59: 31 
Mercury 335 : 59: 01 
Jupiter 156: 40: 25R 
Venus 0:38: 56R 
Saturn 02 : 40: 29 
Rahu 336 : 45: 45 


Ketu 156: 45: 45 


320 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


Illustration No. 4.5.4 Horoscope No. 86 

Born on 2.10.1975 at 03:50:00 hrs. 

Place: Lucknow Long 80:56 E Lat. 26:51 N 
Balance of Mahadasha of Mercury OY 11M 22D 


Asc 135 : 02: 11 
Sun 164: 35: 19 
Moon 119: 13: 57 
Mars 61 : 30; 14 
Mercury 1799: 26: UR 
Jupiter 357 : 41: 09R 
Venus 125 : 20: 32 
Saturn 97 : 43: 39 
Rahu 209 : 15: 08 


Ketu 29 : 15: 08 


KUJA DOSH DUE TO MARS IN THE EIGHTH HOUSE 321 


between the luminaries, problems in married life are bound to come or 
else marriage will be denied or will be appreciably late. But in the present 
case Jupiter's aspect over Sun & Moon has mollified the adversities. 
Moreover, Sapta Grahmalika raj yoga from 11" to 3" house has 
strengthened the horoscope a lot. She got married on 26.1.99 around 24 
years of age and is leading an extremely happy married life. She has 
been blessed with a son on 7.11.2000 and is quite prosperous. Her 
husband is very much loving, caring and adjusting with her. As far as 
we know they have never fought and argued with each other. 


Illustration no. 4.5.5 Horoscope no. 87 


She was born in Aries ascendant with Mars in the 8* house. Moon is 
also conjoined with Mars along with Sun, Mercury Sc Rahu. Thus five 
planets occupy the 8* house. She got married on 11.12.92. The husband 
is an IRS officer and he is not mangli. We have repeatedly said that the 
8* house is the most misunderstood house for females. It indicates 
marital happiness and behaviour of husband towards her, so Mars in the 
8" house has not harmed her at all as far as conjugal bliss is concerned 
even after 5 years of her marriage. She has also been blessed with a son 
on 8.11.2000 during the sub period of Jupiter in Venus. In any birth chart, 
if lords of 7* and 9* houses are placed with strong ascendant, the 
negative results of Mars and other planets will automatically be curtailed. 

In the present birth chart 9* lord Jupiter occupies the 11" house and 
aspects the 7 house where as 7” house Venus is placed in the 9"" house. 
lt means she is fortunate in respect of marriage. The 7* lord Venus 
obtains own navamsa and 9* lord Jupiter also obtains own navamsa, 
thus she is fortunate in respect of husband and married life, in spite of 
having strong Kuja dosha. 


Illustration no. 4.5.6 Horoscope no. 88 


The husband of the lady of illustration no. 4.5.5 is an IRS officer. He 
was born in Aquarius ascendant. Mars is placed in the 6" house in 
association with 5* and 8* lord Mercury over the axis of Rahu & Ketu 
under the aspect of Saturn. Yogkaraka Venus is placed in the 5" house 
under Papakartari Yoga. In this horoscope both the Karmik control 
planets, Saturn and Moon, are conjoined in Taurus where Moon is 
exalted. This resulted into high education and success in I. R. S. The 
moon sign of both are sam saptaka from each other, which always 
indicates happy conjugal life. 


322 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


Illustration No.4.5.5 Horoscope No. 87 

Born on 13.12.1974 at 14:17:00 hrs. 

Place: Varanasi Long 83:00 E Lat. 25:20 N 
Balance of Mahadasha of Mercury 7Y 11M 28D 


8 


MAR_ MON 
SUN MER RAH 


PLANETARY DEGREES 


Asc ll: 33: 41 
Sun 237 : 26: 49 
Moon 233 : 43: 45 
Mars 218 : 12: 30 
Mercury 233 + 51: 06 
Jupiter 317 : 03: 53 
Venus 246 : 28: 16 
Saturn 83 : 47: 47 
Rahu 226 : 49: 32 
Ketu 46: 49: 32 


NAVAMSA 


KUJA DOSH DUE TO MARS IN THE EIGHTH HOUSE 323 


Illustration No. 4.5.6 Horoscope No. 88 

Bom on 4.8.1972 at 21:04:36 hrs. 

Place: Bharatpur Long 77:29 E Lat. 27:13 N 
Balance of Mahadasha of Moon 2Y 9M 18D 


PLANETARY DEGREES 


Asc 328 : 42: 50 
Sun 108 : 50: 57 
Moon 49°: 33: 45 
Mars 119 : 55: 46 
Mercury 114; 23: 19R 
Jupiter 245: 40: 19R 
Venus 65 : 30: 02 
Saturn 54: 09: 40 
Rahu 272 : 34: 03 


Ketu 92 : 34: 03 


324 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


In this illustration we find that the husband is not mangli and the 
wife is strong mangli but it has not created disharmony in their married 
life because 7* and 9* houses are quite strong and well disposed in the 
horoscope of wife. 


Illustration no. 4.5.7 Horoscope no. 89 


The native got married around 28 years of age. She is bom in Aries 
ascendant with Mars in the 8'" house in Scorpio. The 7” lord Venus is 
also placed in the 8* house in conjunction with Mars. Thus, Sun is 
debilitated in the 7* house with 6* lord Mercury and is aspected by 
Saturn. This has further afflicted the 7" house. Mars is also placed under 
Paapakartari Yoga but obtains own navamsa. She is therefore leading 
a very miserable married life. She has been married with a good looking 
and smart farmer. Ph.D. in English has been conferred on her and she 
is also a beautiful, smart and a decent woman. Here, Mars resulted into 
unhappy married life. 


Illustration no. 4.5.8 Horoscope no. 90 


She is bom in Aries ascendant with retrograde Mars in the 8* house. 
She got married on 274.99. Here retrogression of Mars has further 
enhanced the adversity and tendency to canse widowhood. Just after two 
months of marriage on 27.6.99 her husband was crushed by a train. She, 
thus, lost all the happiness of her youth and also her dreams were badly 
shattered. Her life is now full of darkness. She is M.A., B. Ed. Her father 
died on 4.4.93 and her mother died on 19.8.81. Placement of 9* lord 
Jupiter in 6" house in inimical sign Virgo over the close axis of Rahu 
& Ketu may be noted. Thus, she suffered a lot in her life due to retrograde 
Jupiter in the 6 and Mars in the 8* house. 2" and 7* lord Venus 
occupies the 12* house and is associated with Rahu there. This further 
confirms the miseries of married life. So, Mars in the 8* house in Scorpio 
under retrograde motion has caused widowhood. It is active Kuja dosha, 
for females, and inactive Kuja dosha, for males. 


Illustration no. 4.5.9 Horoscope no. 91 


The native was bom in Aries ascendant with Mars in the 8" house in 
Scorpio. Ketu and Mercury are placed in 7* whereas 7" lord Venus joins 
the 9* lord Jupiter in the 5* house. 7* and 8* houses are afflicted. She 
was involved in a serious love affair for 4 years. Her marriage took place 
on 28.3.96 with the same boy. Here, Mars played its evil role in the gm 
house and the marriage was broken next day due to certain serious 
misunderstandings with her husband on the day of marriage itself. 


KUJA DOSH DUE TO MARS IN THE EIGHTH HOUSE 325 
Tilustration No. 4.5.7 Horoscope No. 89 
Bor on 4.11.1963 at 17:08:00 hrs. 
Place: Faridkot Long 74:47 E Lat. 30:42 N 
Balance of Mahadasha of Mars 4Y OM 12D 


i PLANETARY DEGREES 


Asc 08 : 24: 
Sun 197 : 58: 
Moon 59:01: 
Mars 223: 41: 
Mercury 197 : 37: 
Jupiter 347 3 47: 
Venus 215 : 18; 
Saturn 293 3 15: 
Rahu 79 3 38: 
Ketu 259 : 38 


24 
45 
14 
54 
47 
21R 
48 
48 
28 


: 28 


326 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


Illustration No. 4.5.8 Horoscope No. 90 

Born on 2.5.1969 at 6:04:00 hrs. 

Place: Lucknow Long 80:56 E Lat. 26:51 N 
Balance of Mahadasha of Rahu 6Y 2M 24D 


MAR MON JUP 


PLANETARY DEGREES 


Asc 27 < 38: 03 
Sun 18 : 00: 27 
Moon 195 ; 22: 26 
Mars 233: 12; 17R 
Mercury 38 : 23: 59 
Jupiter 153 : 21: 36R 
Venus 347 : 09: 40 
Saturn 6: 50: 


KUJA DOSH DUE TO MARS IN THE EIGHTH HOUSE 327 


Illustration No. 4.5.9 Horoscope No. 91 

Bom on 11.10.1967 at 18:30:00 hrs. 

Place: Delhi Long 77:13 E Lat. 28:39 N 

Balance of Mahadasha of Sun 1Y 5M 26D 
LAGNA 


PLANETARY DEGREES 


Asc 06:44: 11 
Sun 174307: 11 
Moon 276 : 43: 12 
Mars 238 : 13: 22 
Mercury 199 10: 33 
Jupiter 125: 14: 44 
Venus 131 : 43: 09 
Saturn 344 : 56: 17R 
Rahu 04 : 38: 38 
Ketu 184 : 38: 38 


NAVAMSA 


328 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


OBSERVATION 138 


Placement of Mars in the 8* house in Scorpio is adverse for matrimonial 
harmony for women. If Mars is retrograde in Scorpio it will give worst 
results to female natives like loss of husband. However, such a Mars 
will not be creating any disturbance in conjugal bliss of male natives. 

Following are the details of some other birth charts, which were also 
studied to derive the above inference: 


1. Male DOB 26.11.1967 TOB 10:30 Solan C1/180 
2. Male DOB 20.07.1969 TOB 00:05 Bhatinda C1/240 
3. Male DOB 13.12.1942 TOB 16:07 Bareilly J1/85 

4. Female DOB 07.03.1969 TOB 09:10 Allahabad W1/80 
5. Male DOB 16.08.1952 TOB 21:00 Bhatinda QI/81 
6. Male DOB 17.01.1973 TOB 11:45 Shahjahanpur Q1/96 
7. Male DOB 19.11.1947 TOB 26/16 Karnal K/53 


Ishta 
Mars in 8" house 


For Taurus Ascendant 


Mars in the 8* house, for Taurus ascendant, would fall in the sign of 
Jupiter, Sagittarius, which is a friendly sign for Mars. It causes ineffective 
Kuja dosha or serious disturbances are not to be expected. 


Illustration no. 4.5.10 Horoscope no. 92 


She got married on 25.11.93. Mars occupies the 8* house with Rahu 
in Sagittarius. Saturn aspects the 7" house and 2" and 5™ lord Mercury. 
She has been blessed with two sons, first on 8.11.95 and the other on 
6.7.2003. Her married life is generally happy though Kuja dosha is quite 
strong due to placement of Mars, Rahu, Saturn and Ketu in sensitive 
houses where Kuja dosha is caused. 


Illustration no. 4.5.11 Horoscope no. 93 


The native is the husband of the female, whose chart has been discussed 
above. In this birth chart, Mars occupies the 10* house in Virgo and 
no planet occupies the sensitive house. However, the 7* lord Mercury 
in the 12" house in Scorpio is not encouraging. The 8* lord Moon 
occupies the 7* house in inimical sign. Jupiter and Saturn both aspect 
7* house and Moon. 


KUJA DOSH DUE TO MARS IN THE EIGHTH HOUSE 329 


Illustration No. 4.5.10 Horoscope No. 92 

Bom on 23.2.1973 at 11:45:00 hrs. 

Place: Varanasi Long 83:44 E Lat. 25:20 N 

Balance of Mahadasha of Jupiter ISY 3M 24D 
LAGNA 


x 


9 
RAH MAR 


- PLANETARY DEGREES 


Asc 48 : 55 08 
Sun 311 : 00: 44 
Moon 200 : 34: 06 
Mars 254: 12: 44 
Mercury 328 : 45: 04 
Jupiter 276 : 29: 05 
Venus 299 : 37: 01 
Saturn 50: 14: 07 
Rahu 262 : 03: 25 


Ketu 82 : 03: 25 


330 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


Tilustration No. 4.5.11 Horoscope No. 93 

Born on 17.11.1970 at 09:30:00 hrs. 

Place: Chandigarh Long 76:47 E Lat. 30:43 N - 
Balance of Mahadasha of Rahu 1Y 10M 04D 


PLANETARY DEGREES 


Asc 244 : 24: 25 
Sun 210 : 56: 10 
Moon 78 : 37: 57 
Mars 1744 ; 08: 37 
Mercury 222 : 49: 32 
Jupiter 204 : 45: 33 
Venus 200 : 08: 52R 
Saturn 235: 145: 07R 
Rahu 304 : 54: 42 
Ketu 124 : 54: 42 
NAVAMSA 


RAH SAT 


TOES 


KUJA DOSH DUE TO MARS IN THE EIGHTH HOUSE 331 


He is leading generally a smooth married life for the last then years. 
Marriage took place on 25.11.93. Two sons were born on 8.11.95 and 
6.7.2003. Affliction of the 7* house is definitely there as discussed 
above. The wife of the native, therefore, suffers from varions physical 
ailments. Professional aspect of the native is also quite problem-some 
though he belongs to multimillionaires' family. 


Illustration no. 4.5.12 Horoscope no. 94 


She got married on 27.2.78 with an I.A.S, topper. She has been blessed 
with 3 sons, Ist on 31.12.78, 2" on 294.81 and 3" on 24.9.82. Her 
husband is a very handsome and smart man. He is still very popular 
among beautiful females. Some how or the other he got involved with 
a muslim lady though he is a Brahmin. This resulted into havoc in her 
married life and she left the home, children and husband around June 
95. She struggled hard from the year 91 to June 95. After this temporary 
separation she was cheated miserably by many people. She served in a 
small organization at a very low salary to meet her both ends. She had 
a miserable married life. Ultimately now in old age her husband has 
reconciled the matter due to intervention of children. Her husband 
brought her back around early 2001. They are now living together and 
there is no major problem with them, though her husband has a long 
list of licentious activities. Satur and Rahu separated her for 5 years 
but Mars in 8* in Sagittarius did not harm her husband much. It is 
believed that Mars in 8"" house brings widowhood. Here, the observation 
that Kuja Dosha becomes inactive when Mars occupies the 8” house 
in Sagittarius seems to hold water. 


OBSERVATION 2.8 


If Mars occupies the 8" house in Sagittarius it give rise to Kuja dosha, 
which is supposed to be cancelled according to one of the most important 
aphorisms stated earlier. Here, Mars is the lord of 12* and 7° house and 
its placement in the 8" house constructs Vipreet Rajyoga. Here, the 8" 
house is owned by Jupiter, thus it is a friendly sign for Mars. We have 
observed that the placement of Mars in Sagittarius, in the 8" house, is 
not at all fatal. In case of women widowhood or separation should not 
be expected except some minor disturbances such as opposition of family 
members, financial losses, professional set backs or interest in others etc. 

Following are the details of some other birth charts, which were also 
studied to derive the above inference: 


332 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


Illustration No.4.5,12 Horoscope No. 94 

Bom on 18.3.1956 at 10:53:00 hrs. 

Place: Nainital Long 79:33 E Lat. 29:40 N 
Balance of Mahadasha of Moon 6Y 3M 17D 


PLANETARY DEGREES 


Asc 57: 41: 28 
Sun 334 : 20: 55 
Moon 44 : 56:51 
Mars 258 : 48: 09 
Mercury 317 : 37: 09 
Jupiter 119; 38: 25R 
Venus 18 : 23: 44 
Saturn 219 : 30: 49R 
Rahu 228 245: 23 


Ketu 48 : 45; 23 


KUJA DOSH DUE TO MARS IN THE EIGHTH HOUSE 333 


Female DOB 17.02.1973 TOB 11:15 Kanpur (72) 
Male DOB 26.03.1956 TOB 10:15 Lucknow C1/341 
Female DOB 26.08.1962 TOB 06:39 Dehradun Q2/7 
Male DOB 13.04.1954 TOB 09:25 Vapin 12/83 
Female DOB 27.03.1971 TOB 10:10 Allahabad D1/45 
Male DOB 18.10.1969 TOB 20:40 Kanpur K1/76 


ANPONE 


Mars in 8" house 
For Gemini Ascendant 


The 8'" house indicates marital happiness in the birth charts of women. 
This is not so with male nativity. For Gemini ascendant, Mars is the lord 
of 6" & 11" house and it owns sign of exaltation in the 8* house. Here 
the placement of Mars canses Vipreet rajyoga. It is strong & effective 
Kuja dosha. One should not misunderstand that exalted Mars in the 8* 
house is free from Kuja dosha. In male nativity, it may cause accidents, 
bum, operation, scar, boils, injury, cut etc. but, in female nativity, Mars 
gives quite adverse results regarding conjugal bliss. 


Illustration no. 4.5.13 Horoscope no. 95 


She is a beautiful Kashmiri girl. She was hardly 20 years old when a 
business tycoon met her in a party and asked her to join any of his 
organization. Later, she became his concubine. After few years she was 
thrown out of the life of the multibillionaire. Now she had lost everything 
she had and earned nothing but great defamation, dishonor, disrespect, 
dejection, disappointment, distress & despair. Many persons know 
everything abont her as she lived as a second woman in the life of 
someone. Mars is exalted in the 8 house and in navamsa chart Mars 
& Venus join 7* house in Leo. This exalted Mars of the 8* house spoiled 
the life of this beautiful lady for whom her impressive appearance & 
charm became her biggest enemy. But astrologically, placement of Mars 
in the 8" house, though in exaltation, spoiled her life. 


Illustration no. 4.5.14 Horoscope no. 96 


The beautiful lady in discussion is bom in Gemini ascendant with Mars 
in the 8" house in the sign of exaltation, Capricom. Her husband was 
murdered within 3 years of her marriage. In navamsa chart, placement 
of Mars in the 8* house in its sign of debilitation, Cancer, along with 
Venus, is also an adverse combination for conjugal bliss. Here, placement 
of Mars, in the 8* honse, in its sign of exaltation ruined her life, as she 


334 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


Illustration No. 4.5.13 
Born on 12.2.1979 
Place: Delhi 
Balance of Mahadasha of 


Mercury 
Jupiter 
‘Venus 
Saturn 


Horoscope No. 95 

at 14:40:00 hrs. 

Long 77:13 E Lat. 28:39 N 
Ketu 5Y 8M 21D 


122 : 24: 49 
294 ; 13; 55 
301 : 55: 17 
98 : 04: 27R 
254: 14: 05 
138 : 20: 00 
143 : 55: 31 
323 : 55: 31 


KUJA DOSH DUE TO MARS IN THE EIGHTH HOUSE 7535 


Illustration No. 4.5.14 Horoscope No. 96 
Born on 28.9.1971 at 23:00:35 hrs. 
Place: Farrukhabad Long 79:35 E Lat. 27:23 N 
Balance of Mahadasha of Sun 1Y 4M 1D 
LAGNA 


10 
MAR RAH 


DEGREES 

68 : 24:8 

161 : 28: 00 
Moon 263 : 35: 29 
Mars 290 : 48: 46 
Mercury 153 : 30: 39 
Jupiter 219: 4 : 30 
Venus 170 :4 : 23 
Saturn 42 : 58: 44R 
Rahu 289 : 46: 50 
Ketu 109 : 46: 50 


NAVAMSA 


336 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


had to suffer the curse of early widowhood. Her in-laws blamed her fate 
for such a tragedy. She had to live the torturous life and pain given to 
her by her in-laws. 


OBSERVATION 3.8 


Mars in the 8* house in the sign of exaltation, Capricorn, is harmful 
for females regarding the marital happiness & chastity. It is effective 
Kuja dosha. 

Following are details of some of the other horoscopes, which were 
also examined to derive the above inference. 


Male DOB 03.06.1971 TOB 06:45 Lucknow Q2/69 
Male DOB 17.01.1964 TOB 16:55 Varanasi (124) 

Female DOB 04.10.1971 TOB 22:25 Hardoi 02/10 
Female DOB 19.12.1967 TOB 17.15 Kanpur —S1/15 

Male DOB 02.04.1975 TOB 10:20 Meertt = Q1U/37 
Male DOB 30.04.1971 TOB 08:45 Calcutta Q41/55 
Female DOB 10.01.1949 TOB 15:58 Agra QU/H9 


Mars in 8" house 


AWRY YE 


For Cancer Ascendant 


In spite of being Yogkaraka, Mars, if placed in Aquarids in the 8" house, 
creates havoc in married life. It may result into divorce or widowhood. 


Illustration no. 4.5.15 Horoscope no. 97 


She is the daughter of a very rich and renowned JAS officer. She was 
married to a very handsome, smart, and loving boy with heavy pockets, 
as well. Mars ts yogkaraka for Cancer ascendant being the lord of 5* 
and 10* house, therefore many astrologers claimed her Mars to be 
ineffective in causing distress in married life. Sages have mentioned that 
placement of Mars in any house in Leo or Aquarius cancels Kuja dosha 
but it is not so, in our humble observation. Here, Mars created havoc 
in her married life. She got married on 27.2.91 8c suffered widowhood 
after 10 years and 6 months of her marriage during Mars-Saturn dasa- 
bhukti on 9.8.2001. It may be noted that even if yogkarakaMars occupies 
the 8" house in Aquarins, widowhood cannot be ruled ont. There is 
mutual exchange between Mars & Saturn and Satum is debilitated. 7 
house is hemmed between malefics causing Papakartari yoga. It has 
been stated by sages and we have also mentioned that Mars does not 
canse Kuja dosha if joins Aquarins anywhere. This aphorism does not 
seem to be correct. 


KUJA DOSH DUE TO MARS IN THE EIGHTH HOUSE 337 


Illustration No. 4.5.15 Horoscope No. 97 

Born on 29.12.1969 at 20:27:00 hrs. 

Place: Baraut Long 77:15 E Lat. 29:6 N 

Balance of Mahadasha of Venus 12Y 7M 20D 
LAGNA 


PLANETARY DEGREES 


ASC 112 : 40: 39 
Sun 254 ; 17: 37 
Moon 138 : 14: 28 
Mars 317 : 01: 26 
Mercury 273 : 52: 18 
Jupiter 188 : 33: 18 
Venus 248 : 01: 19 
Saturn 08 : 38: 29 
Rahu 320 : 46: 00 


Ketu 140 : 46: 00 


338 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


Iilustration no. 4.5.16 Horoscope no. 98 


This horoscope belongs to a female who was married on 6.6.1991 with 
a class one officer. The husband is a handsome, smart, polite and very 
decent person. The native was a sex maniac. Even on the first night, her 
husband saw her engaged in unnatural acts for gratification. Later, he 
was very much shocked to hear her telephonic conservation with her 
younger brother as he had picked the extension simultaneously & his 
wife couldn't notice it. They had physical relationship for last many years 
& were talking about the same issue with full involvement. However, 
her husband was a sincere officer & used to work 8 hrs with full 
dedication in office. One day, in want off some office document, he came 
back home around 3:00 O'clock & saw wife fully engrossed with 
someone in his bedroom & the man with whom she was lying was one 
of his superior. He then came to know that his wife invites his office 
colleagues & superiors almost everyday during the day. It was unbearable 
for her husband now. He went to his parents-in law & told all about her. 
In due course of time her husband came to know that she was having 
such physical relationship with many of her relatives & friends, even 
before her settlement of her marriage. Her husband filed divorce on the 
basis of corruption and moral turpitude, which was granted on 268.92. 
From that day she is leading a most pathetic & problematic life and has 
eamed lot of defamation. 

Yogkaraka Mars occupies the 8" house with Satum, Mercury and 
Sun. All these are placed 7" from Moon. The 7" house is hemmed 
between malefics giving rise to Papakartari Yoga. There is mutual 
exchange of Mars & Satum in navamsa. Adhi Yoga has been formed 
but all kendras are vacant & these combinations spoiled her married life 
due to her own blunders. 


OBSERVATION 4.8 


Mars in 8" for Cancer Ascendant causes effective Kuja dosha. If Mats 
joins 8" house in Aquarius i. e. for Cancer ascendant, it will be disastrous 
for happy married life that may result into widowhood or separation. 
Chastity of female is also doubtful. 

Following are details of some of the other horoscopes, which were 
also examined to derive the above inference: 


1. Female DOB 04.04.1977 TOB 02:30 Lucknow = J2/11 
2. Male DOB 13.09.1909 TOB 21:00 Gurudarpur J1/36 
3. Female DOB 23.02.1949 TOB 03:25 Rampur —J1/83 


KUJA DOSH DUE TO MARS IN THE EIGHTH HOUSE 339 


Illustration No. 4.5.16 Horoscope No. 98 

Bom on 27.2.1964 at 15:21:00 hrs. 

Place: Varanasi Long 83:00 E Lat. 25:20 N 
Balance of Mahadasha of Ketu OY 1M 26D 


| 
SUN MER 
MAR SAT 


32 
05 
21 
11 
Mercury 302 : 18: 32 
Jupiter 356 : 26: 44 
Venus 356 : 09: 19 
Satur 303 : 41; 50 
Rahu 76% 15: 03 
Ketu 256 ; 15: 03 


340 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


4. Male DOB 10.02.1949 TOB 26/58 Pratapgarh K/23 
Ishta 

5. Female DOB 22.01.1966 TOB 05:25 Lucknow H/67 

6. Male DOB 12.04.1960 TOB 12:30 Lucknow  H/84 


Mars in 8'* house 
For Leo Ascendant 


If Mars is placed in the 8" house in Pisces there will be no serious 
calamity or widowhood, especially if the Jagna lord Sun is in conjunction 
with Mars. Mars happens to be Yogkaraka for Leo ascendant, as it owns 
4h & 9% houses. In 8" house, it joins Pisces, whose lord Jupiter is 
friendly to Mars. Here, Mars aspects 1, 2 and 3“ houses. However, 
Mars does not harm much, in case of either- men or women, except 
giving some physical ailments, injuries, burns and loss of blood. 


Illustration no. 4.5.17 Horoscope no. 99 


Here, Mars is placed in the 8" house along with the Sun & Mercury. 
In this horoscope the 8" lord Jupiter occupies the 7* house, in 
conjunction with Rahu. Though minor health problems are present, 
married life is quite prosperous. She has only one problem with her 
husband that he hardly makes any conversation & at times he enters into 
samadhi keeping absolute silence continuously, for days together. Here 
Mars in Pisces in the 8" house has not created any havoc in married 
life. 


Illustration no. 4.5.18 Horoscope no. 100 


The native is a class one officer in government sector. He is leading a 
very happy & prosperous maurried life. He is blessed with two daughters 
& one son. Mars is placed in the 8" house in conjunction with Sun in 
friendly sign Pisces. The native is enjoying married life of high order. 


OBSERVATION 5.8 


Being a yogkaraka for Leo ascendant, Mars in the 8" house, causes an 
ineffective Kuja dosha and does not impair the marital bliss. 

Following are details of some of the other horoscopes, which were 
also examined to derive the above inference: 


1. Male DOB 09.03.1953 TOB 37/47/30 Jabalpur B1!/350 
Ishta 
2. Male DOB 10.07.1973 TOB 10:00 Chandigarh C1/316 


KUJA DOSH DUE TO MARS IN THE EIGHTH HOUSE 341 


Illustration No. 4.5.17 Horoscope No. 99 

Bom on 23.3.1951 at 16:00:00 hrs. 

Place: Bareilly Long 79:24 E Lat. 28:20 N 

Balance of Mahadasha of Sun OY 7M 11D 
LAGNA 


SKK 


See 


DEGREES 
127 : 51: 48 
338 : 48: 36 
158 : 37: 26 
353 : 18: 56 
Mercury 350 : 32: 32 
Jupiter 329 : 59: 16 
Venus 09 : 16: 28 
Saturn 155 : 34: 57 
Rahu 325 : 46: 55 


Ketu 145 «. 46: 55 


342 AN INSIGHT INIO KUJA DOSHA 


Illustration No. 4.5.18 Horoscope No. 100 

Bom on 6.4.1964 at 16:00:00 hrs. 

Place: Sitapur Long 80:52 E Lat. 25:11 N 

Balance of Mahadasha of Sun 1Y 5M 27D 
LAGNA 


PLANETARY DEGREES 


Asc 141 : 23: 17 
Sun 353 : 17: 40 
Moon 276: 41: 14 


Mars 342 : 49: 54 


KUJA DOSH DUE TO MARS IN THE EIGHTH HOUSE 343 


Female DOB = 17.07.1973 TOB 09:20 Dehradun J2/32 
Female DOB 16.11.1973 TOB 01:49 Lakhimpur K1/49 
Male DOB _ 17.12.1941 TOB 23:00 Allahabad H/45 
Female DOB 19.05.1977 TOB 13:10 Dehradun $1/5] 


Mars in 8" house 


DY i Gd 


For Virgo Ascendant 


Here Mars, if placed in the 8' house in Aries, with or without malefic 
influence, will cause disaster, havoc or even widowhood. If Mars is 
retrograde, without affliction, in the 8* house in Aries, there will be no 
serious problem in married life. 


Illustration no. 4.5.19 Horoscope no. 101 


The native was very handsome & smart at his young age. He is employed 
on a reputed post in a bank. He was married on 25.7.71. Blessed with 
two daughters & one son, he is enjoying life with his family. 


Illustration no. 4.5.20 Horoscope no. 102 


She lost her husband at 35 years of age on 5.11.84 just after a few days 
of assassination of Mrs. Indira Gandhi. The husband suffered from 
severe septic & could not be hospitalized, as a result of which he expired 
& she underwent the curse of widowhood at quite a young age. In this 
horoscope, Mars & Rahu occupy the 8* house 8c 7* lord Jupiter joins 
the 5'" house, which aspects the ascendant. Even then, Mars played its 
most negative role in the 8* house. One should not, therefore, confuse 
that if Mars is placed in own sign in 8", it will not cause adversity. Of 
course, the intensity of adversity will be further enhanced if Mars is 
associated with Rahu, Ketu or Saturn. 


Illustration no. 4.5.21 Horoscope no. 103 


She is a beautiful doctor & had been married with a smart cancer 
specialist of countrywide fame. Here retrograde Mars in 8* in Aries has 
not resulted into any adversity as far as conjugal bliss is concerned till 
46 years of age as on date. The 7" lord Jupiter aspects Mars. However, 
the Mars in the 8" house has resulted into many ailments & troubles 
connected with blood. 


OBSERVATION 68 


For Virgo ascendant, if Mars is placed in the gh house, in Aries, under 
affliction, loss of husband may come in evidence. In case this Mars is 


344 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


Tllustration No. 4.5.19 Horoscope No. 101 

Bom on 3.12.1958 at 01:00:00 hrs. 

Place: Allahabad Long 81:50 E Lat. 25:57 N 
Balance of Mahadasha of Ketu 6Y 4M 6D 


PLANETARY DEGREES 


Asc 152 + 37: 02 
Sun 226 : 50: 14 
Moon 121 : 13: 43 
Mars 25:22: 31R 
Mercury 241: 52: 09R 
Jupiter 204 . 51: 41 
Venus 232 : 04: 52 
Saturn 242 : 45: 37 
Rahu 177 : 43; 27 
Ketu 357 : 43; 27 


NAVAMSA 


KUJA DOSH DUE TO MARS IN THE EIGHTH HOUSE 345 


Illustration No.4.5.20 Horoscope No. 102 

Born on 27.5.1949 at 13:49:42 hrs. 

Place: Delhi Long 77:13 E Lat. 28:39 N 

Balance of Mahadasha of Sun 1Y 10M 25D 
LAGNA 


VX 


DEGREES 

152 : 57 

42 + 32 
Moon 35 : 46 
Mars 26 + 59 
Mercury 53: 22R 
Jupiter 275 : 5S7TR 
Venus 53: 13 
Saturn 126 : 44 
Rahu 0:31 
Ketu 180 : 31 


NAVAMSA 


346 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


Ulustration No. 4.5.21 Horoscope No. 103 

Bor on 18.12.1958 at 02:00:00 hrs. 

Place: Haldwani Long 79:31 E Lat. 29:13 N 

Balance of Mahadasha of Jupiter 3Y 3M 24D 
LAGNA 


Ae 
Sex 


PLANETARY DEGREES 


Asc 176: 48: 06 
Sun 242 : 07: 26 
Moon 330 : 34: I 
Mars 23:21: 05R 
Mercury 226 : 32: 29 
Jupiter 207 : 59: 26 
Venus 250 + 59: 43 
Saturn 244 : 31: 32 
Rahu 176: 45: 13 
Ketu 356 . 45: 13 


KUJA DOSH DUE TO MARS IN THE EIGHTH HOUSE 347 


retrograde or aspected by benefics, there will be no problem in married 
life. 

Following are details of some of the other horoscopes, which were 
also examined to derive the above inference: 


Female DOB 17.10.1973 TOB 04:52 Lucknow El/8 
Male DOB 03.07.1943 TOB 14:02 Lahore C1/212 
Female DOB 03.09.1973 TOB 09:00 Lucknow C1/280 
Female DOB 13.05.1966 TOB 16:45 Jaipur C1/288 
Male DOB 03.12.1958 TOB 01:00 Allahabad C1/360 
Female DOB 30.07.1943 TOB 12:14 Aligarh J2/18 
Male DOB 11.07.1958 TOB 11:55 Meerut 12/48 


Mars in 8'* house 


NI DAUWRWNA 


For Libra Ascendant 


For males, if Mars is placed in Taurus in the gh house, it is not bad, 
as, far as married life and conjugal bliss is concemed but it will prove 
bad for the health of the couple. For women, Mars if placed in Taurus 
in the 8* house, may canse widowhood, especially, if aspected or 
conjoined by malefics, like Satum & Rahu. 


Illustration no. 4.5.22 Horoscope no. 104 


The native was bom in Libra ascendant, with Mars in the 8* under 
retrograde motion. Mars is unaspected by any malefic. The native retired 
in oct.2003 and was re-appointed. His married life is intact & there had 
been no serious problem. Mars in the 8* house, under the mutual aspect 
with Sun, has resulted into many accidents & fractures. Here, again, we 
see retrograde M_ ars in the 8" house though it happens to be a maarkesh, 
for Libra ascendant 


Illustration no. 4.5.23 Horoscope no. 105 


She was bom in Libra ascendant & in Ashwini nakshatra. 2™ & 7* lord 
Mars occupies the 8* house under mutual aspect with Satum. For Libra 
ascendant, placement of Mars in the 8* house & Satum in ne certainly 
causes widowhood or own death before 36 years of age. She got married 
on 11.3.61 at the age of 34 years in Moon-Rahu dasa-bhukti Sc lost her 
husband in a plane crash on 17.1.62 during Moon-Jupiter dasa-bhukti. 
She suffered from the agony of widowhood only after 10 months of her 
marriage. Here, 8* lord Venus obtains navamsa of Jupiter; therefore, sub 
period of Jupiter proved fatal. 


348 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


Illustration No.4.5.22 Horoscope No. 104 

Bom on 912.1943 at 03:55:29 hrs. 

Place: Aligarh Long 78:4 E Lat. 27:54 N 

Balance of Mahadasha of Venus 10Y 3M 27D 
LAGNA 


Kae 
oe" 


PLANETARY DEGREES 


Asc 193: 11 
Sun 232 : 53 
Moon 19 : 47 
Mars 48: 30R 
Mercury 248 : 13 
Jupiter 123 : 56 
Venus 187 : 37 
Satur ' 60. 39R 
Rahu 106: 17 
Ketu 286 : 17 
NAVAMSA 


XS 
2OX 


KUJA DOSH DUE TO MARS IN THE EIGHTH HOUSE 349 


Illustration No.4,5.23 Horoscope No. 105 

Born on 6.3.1927 at 21:15:00 hrs. 

Place: Ambala Long 76:49 E Lat. 30:19 N 

Balance of Mahadasha of Ketu 5Y 7M 18D 
LAGNA 


DEGREES 

180 : 04 

322 : 13 
Moon 02 : 36 
Mars 43 : 49 
Mercury 334: 15 
Jupiter 318: 17 
Venus 347 : 10 
Saturn 224 : 43 
Rahu 71 : 22 
Ketu 251 : 22 


NAVAMSA 


350 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


OBSERVATION 78 


For Libra ascendant, ‘placement of Mars in the 8* honse, is certainly 
- adverse for females, especially if Mars is aspected, associated with 
Satum or Rahu. Retrograde Mars in 8" honse is not so dangerous. For 
male nativity, Mars in 8". in Tanrus, will not spoil married life. 

Following are details of some of the other horoscopes, which were 
also examined to derive the above inference: 


Male DOB 24.05.1966 TOB 17:22 Lucknow B1/92 
Male DOB 24.07.1947 TOB 12:57 Gorakhpur C1/270 
Male DOB 30.03.1972 TOB 21:20 Delhi C1/318 
Male DOB 15.10.1943 TOB 2/20 IsthaJodhpur J2/110 
Male DOB 05.09.1960 TOB 10:08 Lakhimpur J1/42 
Male DOB 26.12.1943 TOB 05:50 Meerpur = Q1/214 


ANWR WN H 


Mars in 8" honse 
For Scorpio Ascendant 


For Scorpio ascendant Mars is the lord of ascendant & 6" honse. If Mars 
occupies the 8* honse in Gemini, married life will snffer serionsly. 


Illustration no. 4.5.24 Horoscope no. 106 


She was born in Scorpio ascendant with the placement of Mars in the 
8* honse. She is well employed and is earning a handsome salary after 
having acquired very high education in computers. She was married on 
6.5.1998 after a long love affair for many years. She had a miscarriage 
in 1998 itself due to misbehaviour of her hnsband. Thereafter, her 
married life took a very adverse shape. After many conflicts, confron- 
tations, confusions she lost all terms with her hnsband & does not have 
any talking terms & physical relations with her husband for last 5 years. 
She is at the verge of divorce in spite of intervention of many well- 
wishers & family members. Placement of Mars in the 8* honse is 
responsible for this adversity & divorce. It will not be out place to 
mention that her husband is also mangli. Graha Maitri 8c high number 
of matching points, as many as 26 out of 36, are there, even then divorce 
is going to be finalised within a short period from now. Horoscope of 
husband is given below. 


Illustration no. 4.5.24 A Horoscope no. 107 


Here, it may be distinctly noted that high number of matching points 


KUJA DOSH DUE TO MARS IN THE EIGHTH HOUSE 351 


Illustration No. 4.5.24 Horoscope NO. 106 

Bom on 13.10.1975 at 10:42:00 hrs. 

Place: Varanasi Long 83:00 E Lat. 25:20 N 
Balance of Mahadasha of Sun OY 5M 1D 


PLANETARY DEGREES 


Asc 237 : 43: 01 
Sun 175 : 43: 37 
Mcon 279 . 03: 01 
Mars 65:21: 12 
Mercury 168 : 00: 21 R 
Jupiter 356: 11: 12R 
Venus 132 : 05: 14 
Saturn 98 : 28: 50 
Rahu 208 . 48: 09 
Ketu 28 : 48: 09 


352 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


Illustration No. 4.5.24 A Horoscope No. 107 
Born on 8.9.1972 at 22:00:00 hrs. 
Place: Muzaffarnagar Long 77:42 E Lat. 29:28 N 
Balance of Mahadasha of Sun 2Y 9M 8D 
LAGNA 


PLANETARY DEGREES 


Asc 33: 21° 21 
Sun 142 : 37: 20 
Moon 153 : 50-: 13 
Mars 142 : 12: 48 
Mercury 132 : 27: 32 
Jupiter 245 : 19: 47 
Venus 97.15: 25 
Saturn 56 : 35: 46 
Rahu 271 : 23: 06 


Ketu 91 : 23: 06 


KUJA DOSH DUE TO MARS IN THE EIGHTH HOUSE 353 


does not mean stable and happy marriage. Improper balancing of Kuja 
dosha will not neutralise the adversities indicated to the natives. So, Kuja 
dosha, if arises due to presence of Mars in 8" house, must be analysed 
seriously and preventive measures should be undertaken. 


Illustration no. 4.5.25 Horoscope no. [08 


She was married on 23.4.1992 and songht legal divorce in 1999, as her 
husband was physically involved with some other girl. If the planetary 
position is unfavourable, one enters into such adverse circumstances that 
he or she has no way out. Mars occupies the 8" house as lagna lord. 
As a result of which she led a very troublesome married life till 1996 
when she filed the case of divorce in court of law, after the birth of a 
daughter on 6.4.94. Here Mars in 8", in Gemini, is aspected by Jupiter. 
Mars obtains own navamsa. The 8" house rules marital happiness, which 
was not only absent, but the life was also troublesome as long as she 
stayed with her husband. Now she has obtained legal divorce & living 
separately with her daughter. 


OBSERVATION 88 


Mars is the /agna lord for Scorpio ascendant & if it is placed the in gm 
house in Gemini, it will be disastrous. Here it will be inimical sign of 
Mars in 8" house. Being the 6" lord as well, placment in 8" house will 
give rise to Vipreet Rajyoga. Married life will be unhappy if Saturn, Rahu 
& Ketu afflict Mars. 

Following are details of some of the other horoscopes, which were 
also examined to derive the above inference: 


. Female DOB 01.10.1975 TOB 11:10 Mainpuri E1/42 
Male DOB 22.11.1975 TOB 07:37 Lucknow C1/339 
Male DOB 22.11.1975 TOB 07:37 Lucknow Q2/2 

Male DOB 29.09.1962 TOB 10:10 Lucknow Q2/109 
Male DOB 29.06.1953 TOB 15:36 Allahabad Q1/16 
Male DOB 08.06.1970 TOB 06:10 Lucknow Q1/93 
Male DOB 22.06.1985 TOB 16:45 Lucknow Q1/254 
Female DOB 30.06.1985 TOB 16:24 Lucknow Q1I/196 


Mars in 8" house 


SNAKE WN— 


For Sagittarius Ascendant 


For Sagittarius ascendant, Mars is the lord of 5* & 12" house & it will 
fall in the sign of debilitation in the 8" honse. This placement of Mars 
is quite adverse not only for conjugal bliss but also for the life of the 


354 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


Iiustration No.4.5.25 Horoscope No. 108 

Bor on 15.5.1974 at 19:00:00 hrs. 

Place: Lucknow Long 80:56 E Lat. 26:51 N 
Balance of Mahadasha of Rahu 8Y 4M 22D 


PLANETARY DEGREES 


Asc 214: 35: I 
Sun 30 : 49: 55 
Moon 313 ; 46: 52 
Mars 81 : 37: 28 
Mercury 43: 24: 02 
Jupiter 320 : 09: 13 
Venus 348 : 29: 49 
Satur 69 : 07: 27 
Rahu 236 207: 42 
Ketu 56 : 07: 42 


KUJA DOSH DUE TO MARS IN THE EIGHTH HOUSE 355 


female native. Serious disasters will appear in their married life during 
the adverse dasa-bhukti. 


Illustration no. 4.5.16 Horoscope no. 109 


She had a love marriage after a long courtship with a politician. Mars 
occupies the 8" house in the sign of debilitation & the 7" lord Mercury 
is hemmed between Mars & Saturn. The husband was involved with 
many women, as physical indulgence was his biggest weakness. The 
husband was a rich man & spent millions of rupees over beautiful girls. 
On 7.6.95 when she had a hot discussion with her husband, after catching 
him red handed with other women, the husband killed her by throttling 
her throat. Here, Mars in Cancer in the 8" house resulted into murder 
of the native by her husband. 

Let us also mention the horoscope of her husband who was bom 
in Aries ascendant with Mars in 7'" house. Both were strong mangli, then 
why the husband murdered his wife. The moon sign of the lady in 
questions is Aries and the birth constellation is Bharani, whereas her 
husband was born in Sagittarius moon sign & Moola constellation. 20 
matching points are present ont of 36. In spite of graha maitri 8c well 
balanced Kuja dosha the biggest tragedy with the native took place on 
7.6.95 when her husband killed her with his own hands. 

It is therefore our humble submission that mangli match should not 
be recommended where Mars occupies 7" or 8" house or vice versa, 
in the birth charts of husband or wife. Similarly, a boy or a girl, if bom 
in Leo or Aquarius moon signs, should never be married together. High 
number of matching points are not of much avail and one should not 
confuse with it. 


OBSERVATION 9.8 


Mars in 8" house for Sagittarius ascendant causes very effective and 
damaging Kuja dosha. Serious happenings in life can be expected. 

Following are details of some of the other horoscopes, which were 
also examined to derive the above inference: 


. Female DOB 04.09.1966 TOB 15:00 Bhilai B1/78 
Male DOB 09.07.1957 TOB 17:00 Kenya Cl/176 
Female DOB 06.09.1951 TOB 14:30 Bareilly C1/263 
Female DOB 16.10.1962 TOB 12:42:30 Pratapgarh E1/95 
Male DOB 24.01.1963 TOB 04:30 AM Mi/3 

Male DOB 24.07.1955 TOB 17.00 Unnao C1/334 
Male DOB 05.07.1940 TOB 32/10 Amroha = C1/378 

Tshta 


NAW LN 


356 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


Illustration No. 4.5.26 Horoscope No. 109 

Bom on 23.8.1951 at 16:25:00 hrs. 

Place: Muzaffarnagar Long 77:42 E Lat. 29:28 N 

Balance of Mahadasha of Venus 1Y 11M 24D 
LAGNA 


Mercury 140: 20: 31R 
Jupiter 350 : 23: 44R 
Venus 143: 07: 57R 
Saturn 157: 52: 13 
Rahu 316 : 46: 35 
Ketu 136 : 


KUJA DOSH DUE TO MARS IN THE EIGHTH HOUSE 357 


Mars 8" house 
For Capricorn Ascendant 


For Capricom ascendant, placement of Mars in the 8" house will result 
into separation due to serious dissatisfaction. Here, Mars owns Ath & yyth 
houses and its placement in 8" house in Leo will certainly not result 
into loss of husband but the married life will be unhappy. If other 
combinations support, Mars in 8" in Leo will result into separation, 
otherwise the conjugal life will be miserable. The adversity of Mars gets 
heavily minimised in the sign of Sun or if associated with the Sun. 


Illustration no. 4.5.27 Horoscope no. 110 


She is the youngest girl who qualified IAS and acquired 1* position in 
her batch. Mars is the lord of the 4" & the I!" houses and occupies 
the 8" house in association with Venus & Satum. Thus, she is strong 
mangli. Here, the 7* lord Moon joins the 7” house in association with 
the 9" lord, Mercury. Though it is a good combination for a fortunate 
marriage which took place on 15.2.2002, Papakartari Yoga around 7" 
house & 7” lord resulted into torturous married life which ultimately 
ended on 16.3.2003 as a result of legal separation. 


Illustration no. 4.5.28 Horoscope no. 111 


She was bom in Capricom ascendant with Mars, Sun & Mercury in the 
8* house. In spite of yogkaraka Venus in the 7* house she could not 
enjoy marital happiness as her 15 marriage which took place on 17.2.92, 
was later dissolved. She got married again on 20.6.96 after seeking 
divorce from her husband. Yogkaraka Venus helped her in this case to 
enable her for the 2" matriage, which is running smooth. Once again, 
we see in this case that the association of Mars with Sun & in the sign 
of Sun in the 8* house has curtailed the adversity 8c resulted into divorce 
with the husband and happy married life with second husband. 


OBSERVATION 10.8 


Mars in the 8" house is certainly bad for happy married life but it is 
not fatal for the husband. This will simply result into separation after 
an unhappy married life. 

Following are details of some of the other horoscopes, which were 
also examined to derive the above inference: 


1. Female DOB 18.10.1968 TOB 13:30 Lucknow €1/174 
2. Male DOB 25.06.1948 TOB 20:30 Jai sor Q1/258 


358 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


Illustration No. 4.5.27 Horoscope No. 110 

Born on 7.71978 at 20:11:00 hrs. 

Place: Dehradun Long 78:03 E Lat. 30:19 N 
Balance of Mahadasha of Satum 1Y 7M 1D 


DEGREES 

273.1 15: 46 

: 33: 50 

105 ; 332 12 

139 : 44: 34 

Mercury 104: 02: 19 
Jupiter 83 : 37: 39 
Venus 121 : 18: 33 
Saturn 124: 20: 08 
Rahu' 156 ; 04: 35 
Ketu 336 : 04; 35 


NAVAMSA 


KUJA DOSH DUE TO MARS IN THE EIGHTH HOUSE 359 


Illustration No. 4.5.28 Horoscope No. 111 

Bom on 129.1972 at 15:25:00 hrs. 

Place: Lucknow Long 80:56 E Lat. 26:51 N 
Balance of Mahadasha of Rahu OY 10M 28D 


Mercury 139 : 32: 48 


Jupiter 245 : 31: 01 
Venus 101 : 10: 05 
Satum 56 : 44: 38 
Rahu 270 : 50: 20 


Ketu 90 : 50: 20 


360 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


Female DOB 05.01.1980 TOB 08:30 Devaria R1I/50 
Male DOB 11.11.1966 TOB 12:30 Amethi R1/65 
Male DOB 14.06.1978 TOB 22:30 Lucknow RI/118 
Male DOB 09.02.1965 TOB 05:02 Lucknow’ K/20 
Male DOB 13.07.1959 TOB 08:31 Allahabad J/76 


Mars in 8'" house 
For Aquarius Ascendant 
Illustration no. 4.5.29 Horoscope no. 112 


The horoscope in discussion reflects the painful and darker side of life. 
The native's life had been passing through very long intervals of grief 
and happiness. She was leading her life with a very successful professor. 
For achieving success in their life they had to overcome the paths filled 
with obstacles. In this horoscope /agna lord Saturn is placed in 7*. So 
her marriage was not delayed. During Mars Venus dasa-bhukti, when 
Jupiter was transiting in the 7" house over lagna lord Saturn, the 
marriage of the native took place very extravagantly, at the age of 20 
years. The father of the native had spent lakhs of rupees to make the 
atmosphere glow with beautiful illuminations and pervade with fragrance 
of perfume etc. But as soon as she entered into the home of her parents- 
in-law, pain, grief, distress and dissatisfaction penetrated in her life. All 
the servants and workers of home were given leave because she had to 
do each and every work of the home. Even her husband wasn't ready 
to even listen to her cries. Every big and small comfort was available 
in the home but she was strictly told not to sit on the stool, even for 
a second. Otherwise, the torturous experiments were done on her. They 
considered their daughter-in-law as lifeless animal who had no rights. 
Native's father was shocked on knowing her precious daughter's con- 
dition and collapsed. All these miseries, terrible and pathetic condition 
that the native had to face were due to placement of Mars in the 8* house 
in inimical sign. 


Illustration no. 4.5.30 Horoscope no. 113 


She is a good-looking female who had long affair with a person of lower 
status. After a courtship with a TV mechanic of other caste, she got 
married with him on 5.12.87. Soon after marriage, the differences with 
husband started. She made desperate efforts to save her marriage in spite 
of unbearable tortures. After getting a good job she divorced her 
husband. Gradually, few males got attracted towards her and showed 


KUJA DOSH DUE TO MARS IN THE EIGHTH HOUSE 361 


Dlustration No. 4.5.29 Horoscope No. 112 

Bor on 20.7.1948 at 20:29:00 hrs. 

Place: Faizabad Long 82:8 E Lat. 26:46 N 
Balance of Mahadasha of Sun 4Y 10M 17D 


PLANETARY DEGREES 


Asc 303 : 16 
Sun 94 : 38 
Moon 269 : 15 
Mars 158 : 51 
Mercury 74: 52 
Jupiter 237: 1R 
Venus 61 : 52 
Saturn 119 : 21 
Rahu 17:0 
Ketu 197: 0 


362 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


Illustration No.4.5.30 Horoscope No. 113 
Born on 98.1965 at 22:00:00 hrs. 
Place:: Lucknow Long 80:56 E Lat. 26:51 N 


Balance of Mahadasha of Venus 4Y 9M 2D 


PLANETARY DEGREES 


Asc 317 : 38 
Sun 113: 23 
Moon 263 + 29. 
Mars 179: 51 
Mercury 1244:;8R 
Jupiter 60 : 41 
Venus 144: 42 
Saturn 322 : 26R 
Rahu 46 : 53 
Ketu 226 * 53 


KUJA DOSH DUE TO MARS IN THE EIGHTH HOUSE 363 


their love towards her, which was only passion. Then she entered into 
camality. In her horoscope /agna lord Satum is placed in lagna itself 
and obtains navamsa of Mars. Yogkaraka Venus is placed in the 7* house 
in inimical sign, in association with 5" and 8" lord Mercury. Motual 
aspect of Saturn and Venus is responsible for her relations. Mars is 
adversely placed in the 8" honse and also obtains vargottam navamsa 
in most inimical sign Virgo. The intensity of evil of Mars has further 
strengthened as it occupies the 7" house in navamsa chart. These 
combinations resulted into her marital mishap. 

Following are details of some of the other horoscopes, which were 
also examined to derive the above inference: 


1. Male DOB 22.12.1966 TOB 16:29 Lucknow B1/140 
2. Male DOB 14.06.1965 TOB 47/20 Lucknow C1/322 
Ishta 

Male DOB 3].10.1955 TOB 14:54:38 Ranikhet J2/3 
Female DOB 08.11.1970 TOB 13:30 Kanpur K2/19 
Female DOB 21.07.1963 TOB 21:45 Lucknow K1/55 
Male DOB 08.11.1970 TOB 13:24 Kanpur Q1/339 
Male DOB 28.02.1950 TOB 05:30 Lucknow K/59 


Oy Ur BO? 


Mars in 8"" house 


For Pisces Ascendant 


Mars owns the 2" and the 9" house, for Pisces ascendant, and if it joins 
the 8" honse, marital disasters take place. Mars in Libra is always 
adverse for conjugal bliss, if associated with Venus. If there is mutual 
aspect between Mars and Satur the intensity of Kuja dosha will be 
enhanced or be multiplied. Satu in the 7” and Mars in the 8" for Pisces 
ascendant will canse divorce. Mutual exchange between Mars and Venns 
will also produce adverse results. 


Illustration no. 4.5.31 Horoscope no. 114 


She is extremely charming and captivating girl whose father had been 
chief secretary in govt. She was married at the age of 24 during the 
Mercury-Mercury, dasa bhukti with a charted accountant in U.S.A, 
Conjunction of Mars, Venus and Moon in Libra in the 8" house resulted 
into divorce within a year or two. In fact, when she visited us, she did 
not reveal the fact that she was a divorcee. She asked when wonld her 
marriage take place? After examining her horoscope she was told that 
she had already been married and divorced and her husband had been 


364 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


Illustration No. 4.5.31 Horoscope No. 114 

Bom on 25.12.1970 at 12:50:00 hrs. 

Place:: Mumbai Long 72:50 E Lat. 18:58 N 

Balance of Mahadasha of Jupiter 4Y 1M 22D 
LAGNA 


KX 
XS 


PLANETARY DEGREES 


Asc 344 ; 30: 27 
Sun 249 : 38:0 
Moon 209 : 52: 24 
Mars 198 : 22:7 
Mercury 257 : 09: 10R 
Jupiter 212 : 30: 37 
Venus 206 : 10: 0 
Saturn 22; 44:53R 
Rahu 301 : 18: 58 
Ketu 121 : 18: 58 


KUJA DOSH DUE TO MARS IN THE EIGHTH HOUSE 365 


working either in bank or in ajob related with accounts. It was amazing 
for her and thereafter, she told everything correctly and felt extremely 
sorry for giving wrong information. She was told that she will get married 
after a small love affair in the year 1987 itself and second marriage will 
be quite satisfactory. She was married happily after 7 or 8 months. Here 
Mars in the 8™ house created havoc in her married life and mutual aspect 
with Saturn intensified the Kuja dosha, which caused separation within 
a very short period after marriage. 


OBSERVATION 12.8 


Placement of Mars in the 8" house in Libra does not cause widowhood 
even if afflicted, but it brings unhappiness, separations and loss of 
conjugal bliss. This position of Mars also gives rise to licentious deeds 
at a very young age. 

Following are details of some of the other horoscopes, which were 
also examined to derive the above inference: 


Female DOB 03.01.1956 TOB 11:4] Kanpur = C1/235 
Male DOB 10.08.1965 TOB 21:30 Kampala - 

Male DOB 25.07.1952 TOB 22:10 Meerut Q1/243 
Male DOB 03.10.1946 TOB 18:10 Kanpur —E/38 


ReENe 


2, ats ate ate ote at 
bu + + 4 hd + 


fara’ wopeucatsdea? yea 
sqad 8yaere: eter: Rretq daa // 


Acharya Chanakya tells that one must learn something from everyone. 
He says that one should learn civility and courtesy from king’ sons, 
gentle and gracious speech from the learned, lie from gamblers and 
deceit from women. 


CHAPTER 4.6 


KUJA DOSHA DUE TO MARS 
IN THE TWELTH HOUSE 


here the intensity of Kuja dosha automatically gets minimised. On 

the basis of intensity of the adversity Kuja dosha can be divided 
in two groups. 24 4* and 12” house tented by Mars will not cause too 
strong Kuja dosha but if Mars occupies the 7", 8" or 1° house the Kuja 
dosha is powerful enough to harm the native. The 12" house signifies 
debts, deceits, losses, theft, extra martial relationship, long journeys, 
miseries, suspicions and other adversities. Whenever Mars joins the 12" 
house in a birth chart one is inclined towards sensual pleasure, many 
times leading to extra marital relationship. The desire remains unfulfilled 
and therefore excess requirement leads them to immoral path. This 
curtails marital happiness. One enters under the sphere of suspicion and 
is then forced to pay its cost. We have observed that such kind of 
placement of Mars tends towards the immoral gratification of desire, 
even during very early and young age. Mars aspects the 6" and 7* house 
from here in addition to the 3" house. So, this is equally harmful for 
male and female alike. 12" Mars gives enough courage to move 
fearlessly on the immoral path. What kind of result will the 12* house 
Mars bestow on the native will exactly depend on the sign in which it 
is placed and its lordship. 


Press of Mars in the 12" house gives rise to Kuja dosha but 


KUJA DOSH DUE TO MARS IN THE TWELTH HOUSE 367 


Mars in 12" house 
For Aries Ascendant 


For Aries ascendant Mars happens to be the lord of /Jagna and 8* house 
and its placement in the 12” house gives rise to ineffective Kuja dosha. 
Mars forms Vipreet Rajayoga and aspects 3", 6" and 7'" houses. Here, 
Mars owns the ascendant and does not spoil the married life. ft has been 
observed that such a Mars causes heavy financial loss due to punishment, 
penalty or prosecution. Married life remains intact. 


Illustration no. 4.6.1 Horoscope no. 115 


The native was prosecuted for a bank robbery and murder of a peon 
during July 1995. He was sent to jail under section 302 of IPC. Later 
on court exonerated him by giving the benefit of doubt. He was married 
in Nov. 2001 and is leading a happy married life. Mars in 12" has not 
damaged his married life. Jupiter and Mars occupy the 12" house under 
the mutual aspect with Saturn. Thus, the intensity of Mars is enhanced, 
even then there~ had been no adverse effect of so called Kuja dosha 
present in his horoscope. 


Observation 1.12 


Mars in 12" in Pisces, for Aries ascendant, does not cause effective Kuja 
dosha. The married life remains intact though financial stress, losses or 
any negative hapening regarding finance is likely. 

Following are some of the other birth charts, which were also studied 
along with the above example to arrive at the conclusion: 


1. Male DOB 09.05.1945 TOB 04:40 Lucknow C1/45 
2. Male DOB 22.06.1975 TOB 01:30 Kanpur ——R1/25 
3. Male DOB 18.05.1977 TOB 03:30 Devaria R1/47 


4. Female DOB 17.10.1960 TOB 57/40 Ishta Lucknow K/5 
5. Male DOB 11.04.1949 TOB 06:45 Agra E/9 


Mars in 12" house 
For Taurus Ascendant 


For Taurus ascendant, Mars is the lord of 7, and 12” houses and gives 
rise to effective Kuja dosha, if placed in the 12" house in own sign Aries. 
Here, Mars is the 7" lord and aspects 7* in addition to the 3“ and 6". 
Here, 7* lord Mars in the 12" creates marital disturbances, discord and 


368 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


Illustration No. 4.6.1 Horoscope No. 115 

Bom on 9.6.75 at 3:35:00 hrs. 

Place: Lucknow Long 80:56 E Lat. 26:51 N 

Balance of Mahadasha of Moon 7Y 6M 27D 
LAGNA 


PLANETARY DEGREES 


Asc 26 : 07: 07 
Sun 53 : 58: 08 
Moon 43; 12: 19 
Mars 350: 19: 57 
Mercury 56: 45: 07 
Jupiter 354: 40: 11 
Venus 99 : 00: 30 
Saturn 84: 21: 55 
Rahu 217 : 26: 16 
Ketu 37: 26: 16 


KUJA DOSH DUE TO MARS IN THE TWELTH HOUSE 369 


even widowhood if Mars in the 12" is afflicted in addition to the malefic 
influence on 7 or 8". 


Illustration no. 4.6.2 Horoscope no. 116 


This is the horoscope of an exceptionally charming and beautiful lady 
w how asm amiedin M ay 1972 during M ars ars dasa-bhukti She lost 
her husband in a jeep accident within one year of marriage in May 73 
during Mars-Rahu dasa-bhukti. Thus adverse role of Mars in the 12” 
house, in Aries, can easily be noticed in this birth chart. The ascendant 
and the 7" house both are hemmed between malefics giving rise to 
papakartari yoga. Venus, Rahu and Moon occupy the 8" house under 
the adverse and mutual aspect of Satum and Rahu, which caused the 
biggest sorrow in her life due to deprivation of her husband's compan- 
ionship, within one year of marriage. Mars has definitely played role of 
effective Kuja dosha in this birth chart. 


Illustration no, 4.63 Horoscope no. 117 


Though the native had a love marriage on 5.12.87 after a very long 
courtship, lot of misunderstandings, conflicts, and quarrels made his life 
miserable. After the birth of two sons he came to know that his wife 
was mentally and physically involved with number of persons during 
different sections of time. He somehow got many of her previous love 
letters, written by different boys and men. Later on, he investigated the 
matter and found many shocking incidents of sensual happenings of her 
life. He asked his wife about the same but she did not confess. He used 
to beat her, thereafter frequently, whenever his wife tried to make false 
excuses of her past misdeeds. This ultimately resulted into divorce. 

In this birth chart 7* lord Mars occupies the 12" house in Aries. 
The 8* house is occupied by Rahu under mutual aspect of Saturn 
and Ketu. However, Venus, Jupiter, Mercury and Sun are well 
placed in the 9* house. That's why the native remarried in 2002 and 
he is now enjoying life with his 2" wife. Here, Mars in 12* played the 
role of effective Kuja dosha resulting into separation with his wife and 
children. 


Observation 2.12: 


For Taurus ascendant, Mars in 12* house in Aries, results into dishar- 
mony of conjugal life, which may lead to divorce in most of the cases. 


370 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


Illustration No.4.6.2 Horoscope No. 116 

Born on 19.2.1955 at 12:22:00 hrs. 

Place: Asansol Long 87:00 E Lat. 23:40 N 
Balance of Mahadasha of Venus 1Y 2M 19 D 


9 
MON 
RAH VEN 


PLANETARY DEGREES 


Asc 56 : 50: 40 
Sun 306 : 37: 08 
Moon 265: SH: 15 
Mars OL : 44: 28 
Mercury 293 : 23: 144R 
Jupiter 87: 41:33 R 
Venus 261 : 19: 38 
Saturn 207 : 51: 23 
Rahu 250 : 58: 42 
Ketu 70: 58: 42 


NAVAMSA 


KUJA DOSH DUE TO MARS IN THE TWELTH HOUSE 371 


Illustration No. 4.6.3 Horoscope No. 117 

Born on 15.1.1974 at 14:17:00 hrs. 

Place: Dehradun Long 78:03 E Lat. 30:19N 
Balance of Mahadasha of Mars 2Y 4M 9D 


. PLANETARY DEGREES 


Asc 46: 15: 18 
Sun 271 : 19: 26 
Moon 182 ; 09: 48 
Mars 14: 47% 07 
Mercury 275 : 09; 24 
Jupiter 294 : 08: 09 
Venus 284 : 51: 25 
Saturn 65 : 56: 48 
Rahu 244 : 47: 40 
Ketu 64 : 47: 40 


NAVAMSA 


372 AN INSIGHT INIO KUJA DOSHA 


This is effective Kuja dosha. Widowhood can also not be med out if 
the 8" house is ill disposed. 

Following are details of some of the other birth charts, which were 
also studied along with the above example to arrive at the conclusion: 


Male DOB 15.03.1972 TOB 09:44 Lucknow B1/274 
Male DOB 21.05.1964 TOB 05:45 Agra B)/274 
Male DOB 17.08.1958 TOB 23:15 Muharrag B1/308 
Female DOB 15.03.1972 TOB 09:44:56 Lucknow C1/33 
Male DOB 17.09.1973 TOB 23:00 Lucknow Cl/258 
Male DOB 12.07.1975 TOB 03:15 Lucknow Q1/57 


Mars in 12" house 


ee 


For Gemini Ascendant 


For Gemini ascendant, Mars is the lord of the 11" and the 6" house and 
if placed in the 12" house in Taurus, it gives rise to ineffective Kuja 
dosha . It is clearly stated that Mars in the 12" house, in Venusian sign 
Taurus or Libra, does not cause Mangli dosha. In other words Mangli 
dosha is ineffective in that case. 


Illustration no. 4.6.4 Horoscope no. 118 


Her husband is a regional manager in a nationalised bank. She has been 
blessed with two daughters and one son and is leading a very happy 
married life with her husband and children. She was married on 15.12.74 
and children were born on 27.9.75, 4.12.76 and 20.9.80 respectively. She 
was born in Gemini ascendant with Mars and Sun in the 12" house in 
Taurus. Here, Mars has given rise to ineffective Kuja dosha, though in 
navamsa it is placed in the 7" house with Rahu, in own sign Aries. Thus, 
the native is leading a married life full of conjugal bliss. 


Observation 3.12 


For Gemini ascendant placement of Mars in 12" house in Taurus gives 
rise to ineffective Kuja dosha. Here, Mars forms Vipreet 
rajayoga as well, and aspects 3°’, 6" and 7* houses. This may cause 
health problems, eye trouble, injuries, operation, stomach trouble and 
inimical activities of opponents. The husband will be handsome, smart, 
active, energetic, loving and caring, provided the 7* lord Jupiter is well 
placed. 

Following are some of the other birth charts, which were also studied 
along with the above example to arrive at the conclusion: 


KUJA DOSH DUE TO MARS IN THE TWELTH HOUSE 373 


Illustration No. 4.6.4 Horoscope No. 118 

Bom on 29.5.1951 at 6:33:00 hrs. 

Place: Shahjahanpur Long 79:55 E Lat. 27:53 N 

Balance of Mahadasha of Jupiter 6Y OM 3D 
LAGNA 


DEGREES 
61 : 48: 47 
43 : 41: 39 
328 : 19: 25 
42 : 02: 48 
Mercury 19 : 32: 10 
Jupiter 344 : 25: 50 
Venus 86 ; 56; 28 
Saturn 152 : 21; 38 
Rahu 322: 09: 11 


Ketu 142: 09: I 


374 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


Female DOB 02.06.1966 TOB 06:06 Gorakhpur (64) 
Male DOB 06.08.1961 TOB 04:00 Jahanabad B1/62 
Female DOB 18.10.1985 TOB 21:15 Lucknow  C1/35 
Male DOB 19.07.1964 TOB 03:55 20N5580E M/24 
Male DOB 02.04.1972 TOB 10:40 Moradabad RI/I11 
Female DOB 21.01.1976 TOB 16:05 Kanpur R1/257 


Mars in 12" house 


DN RWN — 


For Cancer Ascendant 


Mars happens to be a yogkaaraka for Cancer ascendant and its placement 
in the 12" house in inimical sign Gemini may cause minor disturbances 
in married life but no serious disaster, separation or loss of partner takes 
place. This is adverse location for the birth of children. This is ineffective 
Kuja dosha . 


Illustration no. 4.6.5 Horoscope no. 119 


The native is a computer engineer and was married on 16.7.94 with an 
extremely beautiful girl. He faced lot of troubles and problems in the 
birth of children. He was married in 324 year of age, as Saturn occupied 
the 7 house. Placement of Mars in the 12" house in Gemini made her 
wife dissatisfied due to his extremely busy schedule. However, minor 
differences were solved soon. They are leading a happy married life. 
Thus, here Kuja dosha is ineffective. 


Observation 4.12 


Placement of Mars in the 12* house in Gemini gives rise to ineffective 
Kuja dosha. This is an adverse location of Mars regarding the birth of 
children. 

Following are details of some of the other birth charts, which 
were also studied along with the above example to arrive at the 
conclusion: 


1. Male DOB 14.07.1968 TOB 07:40 Lucknow B1/223 
2. Male DOB 20.09.1945 TOB 02:00 Delhi C1/2) 
3. Male DOB 25.09.1962 TOB 03:00 Lakhimpur Khert C1/74 
4. Male DOB 19.07.1953 TOB 05:23 Muzffarnagar 1/352 
5. Male DOB 19.08.1962 TOB 03:20 Kanpur R1/45 
6. Male DOB 01.10.1947 TOB 01:50 Lucknow R1/272 
Ts 


Male DOB 27.04.1976 TOB 12:05 Lakhimpur Kheri R1/277 


KUJA DOSH DUE TO MARS IN THE TWELTH HOUSE 375 


Illustration No. 4.6.5 Horoscope No. 119 

Bom on 25.9.1962 at 03:00:00 hrs. 

Place: Lakhimpur Long 80:47 E Lat. 27:57 N 

Balance of Mahadasha of Mercury 6Y 2M 2D 
LAGNA 


on 
Vans 


PLANETARY DEGREES 


Aas 


Asc 118 : 32: 26 
Sun 158 : 00: 37 
Moon 115 ; 08: 55 
Mars 87: 09: 43 
Mercury 178 : 24: 18R 
Jupiter 311: 24: 08R 
Venus 201 : 58: 17 
Saturn 281 : 36: 36R 
Rahu 104: 16: 44 
Ketu 284 : 16: 44 


376 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


Mars in 12* honse 
For Leo Ascendant 


Mars happens to be a yogkaaraka for Leo ascendant. However in the 
12" house it gets the sign of its debilitation. Here, Mars gives unfavourable 
results regarding Kuja dosha as it is effective Kuja dosha and leads to 
unhappy married life, excessive sensual pleasure and extramarital rela- 
tionship, if unsupported by benefic combinations. 


Illustration no. 4.6.6 Horoscope no. 120 


This horoscope belongs to a convent-educated girl who passed her 
college education with brilliance, but had to leave her education in the 
middle. In her horoscope, Venus occupies the 7” house with 12” lord 
Moon, and Mars occupies the 12” house under debility. The 7" lord 
Saturn occupies the /agna, from where it aspects the 7'" house of its own. 
However, the 7* house and the 7* lord both are placed under paapkartari 
yoga. She was a girl of small structure and wheatish complexion but a 
charming face. She had many boyfriends right from the start, and not 
only this, she was infatuated towards many handsome boys even from 
her adolescence. She used to meet many of them on the pretext of 
coaching or the like. Once at a tourist place she happened to meet a 
foreign delegation. One of the delegates, who was a smart man, 
impressed her. She could not resist the temptation to talk to him. During 
further talks she came to know that he was staying locally for some time. 
The meeting ended with the exchange of addresses and with the promise 
to meet again. Though there was much difference in the age between 
the two, the girl could not stop herself meeting him again and again. 
She started visiting him everyday and soon became pregnant. The 
English man was already married and his family was living in his home 
place, but the girl was madly in love with him. The matter came to the 
knowledge of her parents through her friends. She was pressurised to 
get the pregnancy terminated but she vehemently refused. Under very 
awkward circumstances the English man was forced to marry her. Both 
voon left the country. And there the miseries of life started for this young 
u.rortunate lady who had to be content with the status of a concubine. 
It is heard that she is passing life in distress and planning to come back 
and get divorce. Here, the placement of Mars in the 12” house under 
debility has given rise to effective Kuja dosha and that spoiled her 
educational career also. 


KUJA DOSH DUE TO MARS IN THE TWELTH HOUSE 377 


Illustration No. 4.6.6 Horoscope No. 120 

Bom on 8.2.1978 at 18:55:00 hrs. 

Place: Lucknow Long 80:56 E Lat. 26:51 N 
Balance of Mahadasha of Rahu 15Y 4M 11D 


PLANETARY DEGREES 


Asc 130 : 10: 44 
Sun 295 : 52: 48 
Moon 308 ; 37: 08 
Mars 91:48: 17R 
Mercury 282 : 33: 25 
Jupiter 62:44:35 R 
Venus 300 : 02: 17 
Saturn 124: 11: 39 
Rahu 163 : 15: 40 
Ketu 343 : 15; 40 


NAVAMSA 


378 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


Observation 5.12 


For Leo ascendant, placement of Mars in the 12” house gives rise to 
effective Kuja dosha. Debilitated Mars in the 12" house creates immense 
passion and infatuation for the pacification of immoral ambition. If Mars 
is unsupported, the native may seek sensual pleasure with many, resulting 
into unhappy married life. There will be suspicions, doubt and distrust 
by the life partner. 

Following are details of some of the other birth charts, which were 
also studied along with the above example to arrive at the conclusion: 


Male DOB 03.11.1947 TOB 03:00 Delhi W1/336 
Female DOB 02.12.1962 TOB 23:00 Lucknow G1/56 
Male DOB 22.03.1961 TOB 21:15 Ranchi G1/55 
Male DOB 03.12.1977 TOB 23:45 Lucknow B1/79 
Male DOB 02.10.1964 TOB 07:00 Risia BI/19] 
Male DOB 24.05.1965 TOB 14:30 Pipari Q1/4 
Male DOB 13.09.1949 TOB 04:30 Raipur QI/114 


Mars in 12* honse 


SOY OL PO ie 


For Virgo Ascendant 


Placement of Mars in Leo, in the 12" house, for Virgo ascendant, does 
not give rise to effective Kuja dosha. This has been observed that Mars 
behaves nicely whenever it is under the influence of Sun, either due to 
association or by the placement in the signs of Sun. In such a condition, 
Mars is restricted to normal behaviour, especially with regard to married 
life. 


Illustration no. 4.6.7 Horoscope no. 121 


One of the most famous and successful woman of the country, she is 
exceptionally charming and captivating. She had broken many records 
of merits and beauty during her academic career. She had a love marriage 
on 28.6.74 with a Brahmin. The couple was extremely impressive and 
was Jeading married life full of love, joy, care and adjustment with each 
other. After 14 years of her marriage in 1988 she got deeply involved 
in an extra marital Jove affair with a multimillionaire, which created some 
problem in her married life but the marriage is stiJ] intact and full of 
love. The reason for extra marital relationship is not the presence of Kuja 
dosha. In this horoscope Venus is conjoined with Mars in Leo in the 
12" honse. The ascendant is hemmed between Satum and Mars. Sakata 


KUJA DOSH DUE TO MARS IN THE TWELTH HOUSE 379 


Illustration No. 4.6.7 Horoscope No. 121 

Bom on 20.9.1953 at 7:30:00 hrs. 

Place: Monghyr Long 86:59 E Lat. 25:24 N 
Balance of Mahadasha of Moon 2Y 4M 19D 


* PLANETARY DEGREES 


Asc 172 : 42: 47 
Sun 153 : 36: 10 
Moon 290 : 09: 07 
Mars 130 : 09: 17 
Mercury 163 : 56: 33 
Jupiter 62: 14: 39 
Venus 121 : 51: 22 
Satum 182 : 57: 26 
278 : 43: 34 

98 43: 34 


380 AN INSIGHT INFO KUJA DOSHA 


yoga and Kemadruma yoga are also present here. Moreover, Venus and 
Saturn have mutual aspect in navamsa. These compelled her to incline 
towards a multimillionaire. In various other cases, we have found that 
Mars in 12'*in Leo does not damage conjugal bliss. She has been blessed 
with a brave son and two charming daughters. 


Observations 6.12: 


Mars in 12", for Virgo ascendant, causes ineffective Kuja dosha. This 
may enhance the sensual desire of the native and liking towards others. 
Mars in Leo tends to lose its negative qualities, as per our humble 
observation. 

Following are details of some of the other birth charts, which were 
also studied along with the above example to arrive at the conclusion: 


I. Female DOB’ 16.09.1972 TOB 06:55 Kanpur (32) 
2. Male DOB 30.09.1970 TOB 07:25 Muzaffaranagar B1/370 
3. Male DOB 24.05.1965 TOB 14:30 Pipri (120) 
4. Male DOB 17.08.1944 TOB 08:45 Jaipur B1/254 
5. Female DOB 07.10.1968 TOB 05:45 Pune El/] 
6. Male DOB 25.05.1963 TOB 14:43 Bombay B1/204 
7. Male DOB 07.11.1949 TOB 04:41 Kashipur QI/72 
8. Female DOB 16.09.1972 TOB 06:55 Kanpur R1/23 


Mars in 12* house 
For Libra Ascendant 


Placement of Mars in the 12" house in Virgo, is certainly adverse and 
gives rise to effective Kuja dosha. Here, Mars is the lord of 2™ & 7* 
house and happens to be a maaraka, for Libra ascendant. Mars causes 
worst adversity if falls in the inimical sign Virgo in 12". This combi- 
nation tends one towards excessive indulgence in immoral sensual 
activities. This also spoils the happy married life due to such intemper- 
ance. Many times spouse is also involved in similar acts. The death of 
life partner may also take place ifthe adversity of Mars is enhanced due 
to association or aspects of malefic. 


Illustration no. 4.6.8 Horoscope no. 122 


She was born in Libra ascendant with Mars and Ketu in the 12" in Virgo. 
She was married in June '7! and lost her husband on 24.2.96 due to 
serious illness. However, she enjoyed her married life for about 15 years. 

In another case where Mars and Mercury were conjoined in the 12" 


KUJA DOSH DUE TO MARS IN THE TWELTH HOUSE 381 


Illustration No. 4.6.8 
Bom on 3.3.1950 
Place: Karnal 
Balance of Mahadasha of 


Horoscope No. 122 

at 23:10:00 hrs. 

Long 76:59 E Lat. 29:41 N 
Ketu 1Y 9M 7D 


: PLANETARY DEGREES 


Mercury 
Jupiter 
Venus 
Saturn 
Rahu 
Ketu 


202 + 28: 43 
319 : 25: 19 
129 ; 57: 44 
165 : 26: 39 R 
300 : 11: 21 


382 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


house she was deeply involved, with a Muslim boy, in immoral acts for 
10 years. Thereafter, she was married in year 2000 and lost her husband 
in 2004. 


Observation 7.12 


Mars in the 12* house in Virgo gives rise to effective Kuja dosha. It 
tends one towards immoral acts during teenage and that reflects a 
negative influence in conjugal life. Many times severe affliction of Mars 
in 12* in Virgo proves to be curse for a native by loss of life partner 
in one or the other way. 

Following are details of some of the other birth charts, which were 
also studied along with the above example to arrive at the conclusion: 


Female DOB 20.09.1974 TOB 08:25 Lucknow (30) 

Male DOB 28.12.1966 TOB 01:40 Gola Gokaran (102) 

Female DOB 11.03.1982 TOB 21:40 — Siohi W 1/66 
Female DOB 22.11.1966 TOB 04:23  Pratapgarh W1/391 
Male DOB 14.01.1949 TOB 02:55 Amritsar BI/74 
Female DOB 07.02.1950 TOB 00:34:18 Lucknow B1/89 
Male DOB 27.09.1972 TOB 09:40 Dehradun Q1/13 


NAUAR ONS 


Mars in 12™ house » 
For Scorpio Ascendant 


Mars in 12" in Libra, for Scorpio ascendant, gives rise to ineffective 
Kuja dosha . The native is involved with others but the married life 
remains undisturbed. Sages have written that Mars in Libra in 12* does 
not make one Mangli. 


Illustration no. 4.6.9 Horoscope no. 123 


The native is married to a very pretty and beautiful lady. He is leading 
a happy married life with one daughter and son. He is living with high 
degree of conjugal bliss. He is born is Scorpio ascendant with Mars in 
12" which has a mutual aspect with Saturn. 


Observation 8.12 


Mars in 12" in Libra, for Scorpio ascendant, gives rise to ineffective 
Kuja dosha. The married life remains happy and intact. 

Following are details of some of the other birth charts, which 
were also studied along with the above example to arrive at the 
conclusion: 


KUJA DOSH DUE TO MARS IN THE TWELTH HOUSE 383 


Iilustration No.4.6.9 Horoscope No. 123 

Bom on 59.1963 at 11:24:00 hrs. 

Place: Kanpur Long 80:14 E Lat. 26:27 N 

Balance of Mahadasha of Satum 12Y 6M 8D 
LAGNA 


Mercury 161 : 38 : 50 
Jupiter 354: 59: 14 
Venus 140 . 17: 55 


Saturn 194; 45: 59 


384 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


1. Female DOB 24.10.1942 TOB 09:34 Lucknow C1/330 
2. Female DOB 27.02.1967 TOB 00:20 Lucknow M/47 
3. Female DOB 22.07.1967 TOB 14:30 Lucknow M/76 
4. Female DOB 09.12.1925 TOB 06:13 Bareilly Lig 

5. Male DOB 11.08.1965 TOB 13:05 Katihar QI/129 
6. Male DOB 19.07.1967 TOB 16:30 Lucknow R1/246 
7. Male DOB = 26.02.1952 TOB 01:10 Secunderabad H/43 


Mars in 12" house 
For Sagittarius Ascendant 


Placement of Mars in the 12" house in Scorpio, for Sagittarius ascendant, 
gives rise to ineffective Kuja dosha. However, this is an adverse location 
of Mars, for birth of children. Many times loss of first pregnancy takes 
place. Here, Mars is the lord of 5 and 12" house and it aspects the 
3", 6" and 7* houses. The spouse is generally wise, intelligent, logical 
and well behaved. The native predominates over sponse. Operation of 
stomach region is qnite likely. 


Illustration no. 4.6.10 Horoscope no. 124 


This horoscope belongs to a very pretty, charming, intelligent and highly 
qualified lady who got married in her 28" year of life on 4.6.1993, with 
a marine engineer. Her married life is quite congenial, in spite of mntual 
aspect between Mars and Saturn. She had a miscarriage, after her first 
conception, on 13.3.1996 resulting into her serious condition involving 
a major operation. As far as her marital life is concerned she is leading 
a very happy and prosperous conjugal life. Thus Mars in own sign in 
the 12" house has not played any destructive role in her married life. 
Since Mars also owns the 5" house and joins the 12", matters regarding 
children get spoiled. 


Observation 9.12 


Placement of Mars in the 12" house, in own sign Scorpio, does not make 
one mangli. In other words it is ineffective Kuja dosha and does not 
disturb the married life. The predominance over life partner is also there 
in most of the cases. But it is a discouraging location of Mars in respect 
of children. 

Following are details of some of the other birth charts, which 
were also studied along with the above example to arrive at the 
conclusion: 


KUJA DOSH DUE TO MARS IN THE TWELTH HOUSE 385 


Illustration No. 4.6.10 Horoscope No. 124 

Born on 3.10.1965 at 12:10:00 hrs. 

Place: Lucknow Long 80:56 E Lat. 26:51 N 

Balance of Mahadasha of Sun 2Y 11M 17D 
LAGNA 


Va aS 


PLANETARY DEGREES 


Asc 244 : 28: 24 
Sun 166 : 28: 08 
Moon 264 : 41: 26 
Mars 215 ;55:05R 
Mercury 170 : 49: BR 
Jupiter 67 : 29: 34 
Venus 209 : 16: 
Saturn 318 : 32:01 
Rahu 42 : 58: 33 
Ketu 222 : 58: 33 


NAVAMSA 


386 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


1 Female DOB 05.12.1959 TOB 08:15 Kanpur (15) 
2. Female DOB 08.12.1944 TOB 13:03 Lucknow (37) 
3. Female DOB 07.11.1963 TOB 11:33 Delhi 7/92 
4. Female DOB 10.04.1969 TOB 01:30 Delhi B1/66 
5. Female DOB 01.09.1967 TOB 14:50 Hardoi B1/395 
6. Male DOB 23.07.1969 TOB 16:30 Kanpur Q1/38 
7. Male DOB 31.08.1969 TOB 03:10 Lucknow R1/26 


Mars in 12'* house 
For Capricorn Ascendant 


For Capricom ascendant, Mars is the lord of 4"" and 11 * house and its 
placement in the 12" house causes effective Kuja dosha. Happiness of 
married life is absent. Divorce is also possible. The adversity will be 
further enhanced if Mars conjoins with Saturn, Rahu or Ketu. 


Illustration no. 4.6.11 Horoscope no. 125 


This horoscope belongs to a Sikh native who was married on 279.84. 
The wife was extremely beantiful and charming. This was the only 
reason that the native had doubt over her chastity due to his suspicious 
nature. She was deeply hurt after facing baseless charges and suspicions 
placed against her by her husband. lt was beyond her tolerance so she 
songht divorce within 16 days of her marriage. The native repented a 
lot thereafter. He begged excuse number of times but she did not retum 
back. The life in the period of 15 days, during which she stayed with 
the native, was full of mental and physical torture and nuisance that the 
mere thought of going back to her husband used to send chill down her 
spine. In the horoscope of the native Mars and Saturn occupy the i? 
house. Yogkaraka Venus is also placed under papakartari yoga (art 
Het sat faerraferaasra: 1) After few years of divorce, he remarried. 
His second wife is also quite unhappy with the native due to his 
extramarital relationships. Here Kuja dosha is enhanced due to associa- 
tion of Satum with Mars in the 12". 


Observation 10.12 


For Capricorn ascendant, Mars is the 4"" and the 11" Jord and it aspects 
314 6" and 7" houses. Thus, the houses of marriage, marital happiness 
and sweet home are spoiled heavily. We believe that whenever Mars 
owns the 4" house and joins any of the ¢rik houses, the house of marital 
happiness is spoiled. Similarly, if the lord or lord of trik houses join the 


KUJA DOSH DUE TO MARS IN THE TWELTH HOUSE 387 


Illustration No.4.6.11 Horoscope No. 125 

Bom on 73.1958 at 04:25:00 hrs. ; 
Place: Lucknow Long 80:56 E Lat. 26:51 N 
Balance of Mahadasha of Sun OY 2M 27D 


PLANETARY DEGREES 


Asc 282 : 52: 07 
Sun 322 : 35 : 32 
Moon 159 : 27 : 22 
Mars 269 : 10: 47 
Mercury 325 : 26: 12 
Jupiter 187: 48 :20R 
Venus 282 : 18: 32 
Saturn 241 : 44: 55 
Rahu 188 ; 48 : 26 


Ketu 08 : 48 ; 26 


388 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


4" house, the home of the native, consisting of the native and his wife, 
gets spoiled. Mostly 4'* house is not taken into consideration in the 
examination of the matters regarding marriage but it is equally important. 
Here the placement of Mars gives effective Kuja dosha. 

Following are details of some of the other birth charts, which were 
also studied along with the above example to arrive at the conclusion: 


1. Female DOB 12.03.1956 TOB 04:06 Saharanpur W1/128 
2. Male DOB 16.11.1967 TOB 11:15 Delhi BI/189 
3. Male DOB 17.03.1973 TOB 03:04 Lucknow B1/270 
4. Female DOB 14.11.1965 TOB 11:08 Delhi C1/4, I 
5. Male DOB 16.11.1967 TOB 11:15 Delhi BI/189 
6. Male DOB 30.03.1954 TOB 03:44 Bareilly M/62 

7. Male DOB = 22.03.1956 TOB 02:25 Gorakhpur H/47 


Mars in 12" house 
For Aquarius Ascendant 


Placement of Mars in the 12” house in the sign of exaltation, for 
Aquarius ascendant, is slightly adverse for conjugal life. Here, Mars 
owns the 3“ and the 10" house and aspects the 3", 6* and 7™. As such 
it may cause problems with co-boms and may cause accidents. There 
will be tensions and frustrations in the married life due to difference of 
opinion with the life partner. 


Illustration no. 4.6.12 Horoscope no. 126 


She was born in Aquarius ascendant with exalted Mars in the 12* house. 
The 12* lord Saturn occupies the 4" house and Mars is associated with 
Rahu. She is not enjoying the happiness of marital life due to her 
divergent views and opinion with her husband. The native and her 
husband are working as sub-editors in reputed newspapers but lack 
congenial atmosphere at home. 


Observation 11.12 


Mars in the 12” house, in the sign of exaltation, gives rise to slightly 
effective Kuja dosha. It is not very serious mangli dosha but it should 
not be overlooked as well. Accident and quarrels with co-borns are also 
likely. 

Following are details of some of the other birth charts, which 
were studied along with the above example to arrive at the 
conclusion: 


KUJA DOSH DUE TO MARS IN THE TWELTH HOUSE 389 


Illustration No.4.6.12 Horoscope No. 126 

Born on 14.5.1971 at 02:40:00 hrs. 

Place: Mumba Long 72:50 E Lat. 18:58 N 

Balance of Mahadasha of Ketu 2Y 1M 18D 
LAGNA 


AK 
FBS 


PLANETARY DEGREES 


Asc j 325 : 25: 39 
Sun 28 : 59. 22 
Moon 249 : 15: 56 
Mars 281 : 34: 05 
Mercury 03 : 47: 21 
Jupiter 219: 19: 42R 
Venus 00 : 55: 


Rahu 295 : 04: 


03 
Saturn 32: 00: 24 
35 
Ketu 115 : 04; 35 


390 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


Illustration No. 4.6.13 Horoscope No. 127 

Born on 20.2.1966 at 08:48:00 hrs. 

Place: Dehradun Long 78:03 E Lat. 30:19N 
Balance of Mahadasha of Mars 1Y 3M 7D 


PLANETARY DEGREES 


Asc 347 : 03: 05 
Sun 307 : 39: 20 
Moon 304 : 14: 41 
Mars 323 : 02: 38 
Mercury 318 : 57: 38 
Jupiter 57 : 54: 28 
Venus 275 : 13: 54 
Satur 324: 11: 54 
Rahu 36: 33: B 
Ketu 216 : 33: 13 


KUJA DOSH DUE TO MARS IN THE TWELTH HOUSE 391 


1. Female DOB 14.11.1954 TOB 11:20 Lucknow C1/4 

2. Male DOB 05.05.1956 TOB 02:10 Azamgarh C1/67 
3. Female DOB 27.12.1971 TOB 10:00 Jaunpur C1/109 
4. Male DOB 31.12.1980 TOB 10:45 Gorakhpur Q1/348 


Mars in 12" honse 
For Pisces Ascendant 


Placement of Mars in the 12" house in Aquarius, for Pisces ascendant, 
gives rise to effective Kuja dosha . |n fact, whenever Mars falls in the 
sign of Saturn or Mercury, problems in married life arise. But it is not 
disastrous. This gives rise to minor Kuja dosha, not severe. Dr. B. V. 
Raman has opined that Mars in the 12" gives 50% dosha as compared 
to Mars in the 7" or the 8" house. 


Illustration no. 4.6.13 Horoscope no. 127 


The native is dealing in lime for the last 20 years. Mars, in his birth 
chart, occupies the 12" house in association with Mercury, Satum, Moon 
and Sun. This is an adverse location for accumulation of wealth. The 
native eared millions of rupees and lost due to wrongly diverted 
planning and over confidence. This has created slight disturbance in his 
marital life, too. 


Observation 12.12 


Mars in the 12" in Aquarius gives rise to minor Kuja dosha, for Pisces 
ascendant. This creates slight disturbance in married life due to financial 
stress and family conflict. This is also an adverse location for financial 
aspect and trouble in foreign countries. 

Following are details of some of the other birth charts, which were 
also studied along with the above example to arrive at the conclusion: 


1. Male DOB 06.12.1954 TOB 15/32/30 Lucknow R/47,48 
Ishta 
2. Female DOB 07.01.1953 TOB 11:10am Mathura  BI1/127 
3. Male DOB 15.01.1953 TOB 11/12 Meerut - 
Ishta 
4. Female DOB 23.06.1959 TOB 01:00 Lucknow K/32 
5. Female DOB 26.06.1956 TOB 12:00 Amritsar  P/22 


9 
“e 


oe 
. 


1% 


eo te 
4 


4% 


<7 of 
v 


at at g ada, sieerat arfeete 1 
wdeu: poe- ‘pay: a, Y- dla wala: ae si 


Those eyes are appreciated, which guide blind persons and 
whichj protect the helpless from pits and th 


CHAPTER 4.7 


OBSERVATIONS AT A GLANCE 


) ] e have explained with the help of innumerable practical birth 
charts as to when Kuja dosha ts effective and when not, due 
to placement of Mars in various houses for various ascen- 
dants. We have just enumerated our humble observations and request all 
serious scholars of astrology to further enrich these observations with 
their findings from the study of practical birth charts. There are various 
views of various scholars and sages in regard to effective or ineffective 
Kuja dosha, but at places many of their views are contradictory. Modern 
writers of astrology have also written a lot on the issue of Kuja dosha 
but there also dissimilarities exist. We have, therefore, made a sincere 
endeavour to ferret out the observations on the adversity of Kuja dosha 
for each ascendant, after a research oriented study of a number of 
horoscopes with the same disposition of Mars causing Kuja dosha, for 
different ascendants individually. Hereunder, we have placed all the 
observations delineated on the practical case studies of Kuja dosha for 
different ascendants, as discussed in previous chapters, at one place. We 
hope readers will be benefited. 


Mars in the 1 House 


Observation 1.1 


Mars in the ascendant in Aries creates problems in married life and 
curtails happiness of married life either by widowhood, separation, and 
loss of wife or polygamy. However, Mars in Aries, in ascendant, does 
not show inclination towards adultery. 


OBSERVATIONS AT A GLANCE 393 


Observation 2.] 


It is our humble observation that Mars if placed in Taurus ascendant does 
not create any disaster in married life. In fact, this is our humble opinion 
about Mars that it remains very much under control if placed with Sun 
or in the sign of the Sun or under mutual aspect or exchange with the 
Sun. However, Mars if conjoined or placed with or in the sign of Venus, 
remains quite liberal as far as morals are concerned and does not spoil 
marriage as well. It has also been observed that Mars in Taurus or Libra 
ascendant does create popularity, inclination and interest in opposite sex 
and that too without damaging conjugal life. The natives having Mars 
in Taurus ascendant, particularly females, should be checked and 
restricted as far as their association with opposite sex is concerned. 


Observation 3.1 


Placement of Mars in Gemini ascendant causes effective Kuja dosha. 
If Mars is unafflicted, it may cause separation or unhappy married life. 
However, if Mars is associated with Rahu, Ketu or Saturn in one or the 
other way, this disposition of Mars may even cause loss of life partner. 
Anyway, 7" house should also be examined in case of males, and gm 
house in females, before reaching any conclusion. 


Observation 4.1 


Mars in Cancer ascendant gives rise to ineffective Kuja dosha. In spite 
of minor disturbances married life remains happy & intact. Separation 
or any other disaster is possible only if 7" house is afflicted, in one or 
the other way, and if the affliction lends its adversity to Mars, problem 
regarding happiness of children may also take place. 


Observation 5.1 


Mars in the ascendant in Leo does not cause mangli dosha. Married life 
is generally happy & prosperous. 

In fact for persons born in Cancer & Leo ascendant married life 
remains questionable because the lord of the ascendant are luminaries 
and 7* lord Saturn is inimical to them; therefore, the nature of husband 
& wife is just opposite each other. Only due to this reason, certain . 
differences arise between the couple. However, placement of Mars 
in Leo ascendant does not cause any negative outcome in the married 
life. 


394 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


Observation 6.1 


Effective Kuja dosha is there, particularly for females, if Mars occupies 
the ascendant in Virgo resulting into unhappy married life, loss of life 
partner, ailment or operation of the spouse. Separation also can not be 
ruled out if, 7" house contains Saturn, Rahu or Sun. In many cases 
widowhood has come into evidence around 30-36 years of age. Here, 
Mars is the lord of 3" and 8" house and becomes extremely malefic, 
as Virgo is its inimical sign. The horoscope should be examined carefully 
and the position of Jupiter should be judged properly before arriving at 
any conclusion. The ascendant lord, Mercury, is inimical to Mars; 
therefore, native also suffers from many troubles connected with blood, 
skin and stomach. 


Observation 7.1 


Placement of Mars in Libra ascendant is more harmful for self but not 
damaging for married life, unless 7" house, its lord or Venus is afflicted. 
We have our humble observation that Mars remains under control with 
Venus or in Venus’ sign if it is absolutely unafflicted by the association 
or aspect of malefic. Generally, this disposition of Mars does not cause 
separation or widowhood until unless the 7" or 8" houses are under the 
influence of malefic. However the native has short life, and he may suffer 
from heart problem, open-heart surgery, hypertension, burns, or acciden- 
tal death. This is so because Mars is the lord of two Maaraka houses, 
2° & 7". However, Mars does not kill the native during its period. 


Observation 8.1 


Placement of Mars in Scorpio ascendant gives rise to ineffective Kuja 
dosha. This position of Mars does not create adversity in married life 
until the 7'" house and its lord are afflicted. 


Observation 9.1 


Placement of Mars in Sagittarius in the ascendant cause effective Kuja 
dosha. One is inclined towards love & liking, and, also has a love 
marriage, if the other combinations of the 5", 7" or 9" house are related 
with each other, in one or other way. Married life & love affairs, both 
are full of problems, tensions and extreme failures. 


Observation 10.1 


Exalted Mars in the ascendant gives rise to ineffective Kuja dosha. 


OBSERVATIONS AT A GLANCE 395 


Married life continues, though extra marital relations may cause minor 
upheaval for a short period. This is a good disposition of Mars for 
energetic, dynamic & dashing personality. It gives youthful appearance 
but the native is very much self-oriented, even in love affairs. 


Observation 11.1 


In many cases we have observed that the placement of Mars in the 
ascendant, in Aquarius, does not affect the married life of the native. 
Any serious injury, wound operation or accident cannot be ruled out. 


Observation 12.1 


We have observed that Mars in the ascendant, in Pisces, does not hamper 
married life, hence it gives nse to ineffective Kuja dosha. However, the 
health of the spouse may require attention, frequently. 


Mars in the 2"? House 


Observation 1.2 


For Aries ascendant, Mars in the 2" house, gives rise to effective Kuja 
dosha. One suffers from miserable married life, separation or death of 
spouse. One also suffers from problems connected with children, 
stomach disorder, blood troubles, operation & accidents. Generally, such 
a native believes in extreme love or extreme hate. 


Observation 2.2 


Placement of Mars in Gemini in the 2" house, for Taurus ascendant, 
gives rise to effective Kuja dosha. This disposition of Mars may even 
cause death of the life partner due to any accident. Family life becomes 
miserable & financial aspect is also below par. On many occasions 
conjugal bliss is absent due to disturbance in financial matters. Other 
family members, like in-laws, also intervene in the married life of the 
couple causing various adversity & problems. 


Observation 3.2 


Placement of Mars in the 2™ house, in Cancer, gives nse to effective 
Kuja dosha. Generally, the marriage 1s very peculiar due to one or the 
other reason. Love affairs either fail or take place with the person of 
very different status or age. Health remains questionable. Operation, 
burns, accidents, etc. are quite possible. In few cases married life is 
smooth where Moon is associated with Mars & 7* lord Jupiter is well 


396 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


placed in quadrant or triangle or the 7” house is well disposed. This 
position of Mars must be studied very carefully before reaching the final 
conclusion. 


Observation 4.2 


Placement of Mars in Leo in the 2" house, for Cancer ascendant, causes 
ineffective Kuja dosha. No serious disaster in the married life takes 
place. There are only minor disturbances, due to in-laws, but marriage 
remains intact without any serious disturbance. Mars happens to be a « 
Yogakaaraka for Cancer ascendant & does not give adverse result in Leo. 
This position of Mars tends one towards making love. 


Observation 5.2 


Mars in Virgo in 2™ house, for Leo ascendant, gives rise to effective 
Kuja dosha. Married life suffers 8c conjugal bliss is absent. Divorce or 
death cannot be ruled out, if the lord of 7* house is placed in trikas. 
Marriage is delayed or obstructed. 


Observation 6.2 


If Mars occupies 2™ house in Libra, married life will be unhappy either 
due to divorce, death of life partner or due to any other physical problem 
of the spouse. The wife may be fraud or sex manic. Similarly, the 
husband may suffer from impotency or have intense sex desire. The 
native will be involved with persons other than spouse. This is really 
most undesirable placement of Mars and gives rise to effective & strong 
Kuja dosha. 


Observation 7.2 


Placement of Mars in the second house in Scorpio, for Libra ascendant, 
causes ineffective Kuja dosha but it often delays the marriage. In many 
cases, love and inter-caste alliances also take place. Married life is 
generally smooth or happy. The only point of worry remains the aspect 
of children in the form of their negative attitude, ill temperament, 
disobedience, arrogance and disrespectful approach. This is due to the 
aspect of Mars over the 5' house. This is also an adverse combination 
for loss of husband, though in advance age. 


Observation 8.2 


Placement of Mars in the second house in Sagittarius, for Scorpio 
ascendant, causes effective Kuja dosha. The partner of the native suffers 


OBSERVATIONS AT A GLANCE 397 


from various ailment and dies in the middle age, as per our humble 
observation. Married life is just average if not happy. This is also an 
adverse disposition of Mars for loss of money due to theft, deceit or 
misplaced confidence. The native suffers due to relations and close 
relatives. 


Observation 9.2 


Placement of Mars in the 2" house in the sign of exaltation Capricorn, 
for Sagittarius ascendant, gives rise to ineffective Kuja dosha. The 
marital life remains at par. The native has control over spouse. Finan- 
cially the native is well off. This position of Mars often creates problem 
regarding future prospects of children. 


Observation 10.2 


Placement of Mars in the 2™ house in Aquarius gives rise to ineffective 
Kuja dosha and married life remains happy and prosperous. 


Observation 11.2 


Placement of Mars in the 2"¢ house in Pisces, for Aquarius ascendant, 
gives nse to effective Kuja dosha. This position of Mars is bad for the 
health or the life span of the life partner. Family disturbances, tensions, 
and distress are likely. However, professional and financial aspects will 
be sound. 


Observation 12.2 


Mars, if placed in the 2"4 house in Aries, for Pisces ascendant, gives 
rise to ineffective Kuja dosha. One leads happy and prosperous married 
life. 


Mars in the 4" Honse 
Observation 14 


For Aries ascendant, placement of Mars in the 4" house, may cause 
separation or the death of life partner if the 7" lord is also afflicted. This 
gives rise to unhappy married life as well. Thus, this position of Mars 
causes effective Kuja dosha. 


Observation 2.4 


For Taurus ascendant Mars is the lord of 2"¢ and 12 houses, hence it 
happens to be a Maarkesh for the native, and if placed in the 4* house 
in Leo, it gives nse to separation or unhappy married life. The native 


398 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


may suffer from trouble connected with chest and brain. This Mars also 
delays the marriage. 


Observation 3.4 


For Gemini ascendant, Mars plays quite an adverse role if placed in Virgo 
in the 4* honse, as Mars is the lord of 6" and 11"" houses ie. upachayas. 
Upachaya lords give adverse result wherever they are placed, except in 
upachayas. Therefore the 4* house, which rules family pleasure and 
sweet home, gets afflicted, for Gemini bor if Mars is tenanted here. 
Many times divorce is quite possible but conclusion should be drawn 
only after examining 7" house as well. 


Observation 4.4 


For Cancer ascendant, placement of Yogkaarka Mars in the 4" house 
is quite effective and active to harm the native regarding family 
happiness. Generally, Mars in Libra in the 4" honse brings divorce and 
if 4* lord Venus is also afflicted, adversity gets further enhanced. 


Observation 5.4 


For Leo ascendant, placement of Mars in the 4* house in Scorpio, does 
not cause effective Kuja dosha. Problems in marriage may arise only 
if Mars is heavily afflicted by inimical planets, is retrograde or aspected 
by malefic in addition to the affliction of the 7™ house. Otherwise, Mars 
gives rise to inactive Kuja dosha in the 4* house in Leo ascendant. 


Observation 6.4 


For Virgo ascendant, Mars in the 4* house in Sagittarins, gives rise to 
strong and effective Kuja dosha. We believe it is the one of the worst 
kind of mangli dosha and further adversity will be exhibited if Jupiter 
is adversely placed and afflicted. There may be denial of conjugal bliss, 
death of life partner or divorce. 


Observation 7.4 
Mars in the 4"" in the sign of exaltation does not give rise to effective 
Kuja dosha. The subject generally leads a happy and prosperous life. 
Observation 8.4 
Placement of Mars in Aquarius in the 4" house, for Scorpio ascendant, 


damages conjugal bliss and in case of affliction of Mars, the adversity 
of Kuja dosha may lead to divorce. 


OBSERVATIONS AT A GLANCE 399 


Observation 9.4 


For Sagittarius ascendant, placement of Mars in the 4h house, in Pisces, 
is not much harmful but it certainly curtails the happiness of married 
life to some extent. However, if Mars is aspected by Jupiter, the adversity 
will be enhanced. If the 4* lord Jupiter is placed in the 12* house and 
aspects Mars from the 12* house itself, Kuja dosha gets multiplied and 
may create temporary separation. 


Observation 10.4 


For Capricom ascendant, placement of Mars in the 4" house, in Aries, 
gives rise to ineffective Kuja dosha. This Mars does not curtail marital 
bliss until unless other combinations afflict the 7* house. 


Observation 11.4 


For Aquarius ascendant, the placement of Mars in Taurus, gives rise to 
effective Kuja dosha and curtails marital bliss in general but divorce does 
not take place-until unless 4 lord Venus or the 7 house is afflicted 
heavily. 


Observation 12.4 


For Pisces ascendant, placement of Mars in the A" house, in Gemini, 
gives rise to effective Kuja dosha. Family life is miserable, emotions are 
vanished and the feeling of belonging is absent; conceit and vanity 
destroy the conjugal bliss. If Jupiter, Satum or Moon conjoin with or 
aspect Mars, intensity of Kuja dosha gets furthers enhanced. 


Mars in the 7'> Honse 


Observation 17 


In Libra, Mars creates passion, and sexual excess but its lord Venus is 
neutral with Mars. For Aries ascendant if Mars is placed in the 7” house 
the wife will die or be killed in any accident or mishap. The native may 
marry twice, he/she will be very passionate and may commit licentious 
deeds. 


Observation 2.7 


For Taurus ascendant placement of Mars in the 7" house in Scorpio will 
give rise to active Kuja dosha. The husband of the female may die in 
any accident or mishap soon after marriage. 


400 AN INSIGHT iNTO KUJA DOSHA 


Observation 3.7 


For Gemini ascendant if Mars is placed in 7, house in Sagittarius, 
ailments to husband and professional problems to him may appear. If 
Mars & Saturn join in the 7" house, there will be disaster. If the 
Sun is associated with Mars in 7'* the married life will generally be 
happy. 


Observation 4.7 


For Cancer ascendant, placement of Mars in Capricorn will cancel Kuja 
dosha. But if Mars is afflicted by the aspect of 6" lord Jupiter or 8" 
lord Saturn, married life will be disturbed, otherwise the Yogakaaraka 
Mars will result into happy marriage. 


Observation 5.7 


For Leo ascendant, placement of Mars in the 7* honse makes one active 
mangli and may result into disasters and death of sponse. In case the 
7" lord Saturn occupies the ascendant adversity of Mars will be heavily 
reduced. 


Observation 6.7 


For Virgo ascendant, if Mars is placed in the 7" house in Pisces, it will 
not be disastrous for married life or for the life of sponse. If Mars is 
heavily afflicted along with 7° lord Jupiter, disturbance will arise, but 
in all such cases health of wife will require lot of care and treatment. 


Observation 7.7 


For Libra ascendant, if Mars is placed in the 7" house in Aries, there 
will be an active Kuja dosha which will bring lot of misunderstanding, 
unhappiness, miseries, tensions, conflicts and differences with life 
partner. But relations with life partner will not be broken due to death 
or separation. 


Observation: 8.7 


For Scorpio ascendant, placement of Mars in the the 7 honse, cases 
active Kuja dosha. The native or the spouse will be involved somewhere 
and that will be disastrous for their conjugal bliss. 


Observation: No. 9.7 


For Sagittarius ascendant, if Mars is placed in the 7" honse in Gemini, 
it will result into miserable and unhappy married life. It is active Kuja 


OBSERVATIONS AT A GLANCE 401 


dosha. If Mars is afflicted by Venus, Rahn or Saturn and the 7" lord 
is also adversely placed in 6" or 12" house there are strong indications 
of separation. This position of Mars- may also result into unhappy love 
marriage provided 5* house, is aspected by or associated with 7" and 
9th Jord, in one or the other way. If Mars is retrograde, it will behave 
nicely and here inactive Kuja dosha will take place. Married life will 
be free from miseries and maladies in that case. 


Observation 10.7 


Placement of Mars in the 7 house under debilitation, i. e. in Cancer 
will not neutralize Kuja dosha. Marital maladies, tensions, difference of 
opinion, and conflicts between the couple are likely to take place. 
Affliction of Mars will enhance the adversity and intensity of Kuja 
dosha, resulting into denial of marriage, death of spouse or divorce. 


Observations 11.7 


For Aquarius ascendant, placement of Mars in Leo in the 7" house will 
cause active Kuja dosha. Married life will not be happy. Problems and 
miseries will be aggravated if Venus is conjoined with Mars in the ih 
house. Venus and Sun have inimical relationship. Therefore, if the Sun 
will also be associated with Mars and Venus married life will be 
disastrous. If 7" lord Sun joins the 6™ house adversities will be further 
aggravated. The aspect of lagna lord Saturn over Mars will not aggravate 
adversities provided Mars is unafflicted in 7 house. Conjunction of 
Mars and Venus in the 7" will give beautiful life partner but he or she 
may be adulterous. The native himself will also be involved in licentious 
deeds. 


Observation 12.7 

For Pisces ascendant, placement of Mars in Virgo will not cause any 
serious adversity to the married life of the native. This is due to owner 
ship of the 9" house by Mars. We have found that this is inactive Kuja 


dosha and may not be taken seriously until unless other malefic 
combinations and affliction of Mars are also present in the birth chart. 


Mars in the 8* House 
Observation 18 


Placement of Mars in Scorpio is adverse for matrimonial harmony, for 
females. If Mars is retrograde in Scorpio it will give worst results to 


402 AN INSIGHT INIO KUJA DOSHA 


female natives like loss of husband. However such a Mars will not be 
creating any disturbance in conjugal bliss of male natives. 


Observation 2.8 


If Mars occupies the 8" house in Sagittarius it gives rise to Kuja dosha, 
which is supposed to be cancelled according to one of the most important 
aphorisms stated earlier. Here, Mars is the lord of 12" and 7" house and 
its placement in the 8"" house forms Vipreet Rajyoga. Here the 8" house 
is owned by Jupiter, thus it is a friendly sign for Mars. We have observed 
that the placement of Mars in Sagittarius in the 8” house is not at all 
fatal. In case of females, widowhood or separation should not be 
expected except some minor disturbances such as opposition of family 
members, financial losses, professional set backs, interest in others etc. 


Observation 3.8 


Mars in the 8* house in the sign of exaltation, Capricorn, is harmful 
for females regarding the marital happiness & chastity. It is effective 
Kuja dosha. 


Observation 4.8 


Mars in 8" for Cancer Ascendant causes effective Kuja dosha. If Mars 
joins the 8" house in Aquarius i. e. for Cancer ascendant, it will be 
disastrous for happy married life that may result into widowhood or 
separation. Chastity of female is also doubtful. 


Observation 5.8 


Being a yogakaaraka for Leo ascendant Mars in 8" house causes an 
ineffective Kuja dosha and does not impair the marital bliss. 


Observation 68 


For Virgo ascendant, if Mars is placed in the 8" house in Aries, under 
affliction, loss of husband may come in evidence. !n case, this Mars is 
retrograde or aspected by benefics there will be no problem in married 
life. 


Observation 7.8 


For Libra ascendant placement of Mars in the 8" house is certainly 
adverse for females, especially if Mars is aspected by or associated with 
Saturn or Rahu. Retrograde Mars in 8" house is not so dangerous. For 
male nativity, Mars in the 8" in Taurus will not spoil married life. 


OBSERVATIONS AT A GLANCE 403 


Observation 8.8 


Mars is the /agnalord for Scorpio ascendant & if it is placed in 8" house 
in Gemini it will be disastrous. Here it will be inimical sign of Mars 
in 8" house. Being the 6" lord as well, placement in 8"* house will give 
rise to Vipreet Rajyoga. Married life will be unhappy if Mars is afflicted 
by Satum, Rahu & Ketu. 


Observation 98 


Mars in the 8" house for Sagittarius ascendant causes very effective and 
damaging Kuja dosha. Serious happenings in life can be expected. 


Observation 10.8 


Mars in the 8" house for capricorn ascendant, is certainly bad for happy 
married life but it is not fatal for the husband. This will simply result 
into separation after an unhappy married life. 


Observation 118 


Mars in the 8™ house, for Aquarius ascendant, would fall in the sign 
of enemy, Mercury, and thus would cause effective Kuja dosha. There 
will be differences with the spouse and life will be full of tortures. 
Separation may also result. 


Observation 12.8 


Placement of Mars in the 8* house, in Libra, does not cause widowhood 
even if afflicted, but it brings unhappiness, separations and loss of 
conjugal bliss. This position of Mars also gives rise to licentious deeds 
at a very young age. 


Mars in the 12* House 
Observation 1.12 


Mars in !2' in Pisces, for Aries, ascendant does not cause effective Kuja 
dosha. The married life remains intact though financial stress, losses or 
any misshapening regarding finance is likely. 


Observation 2.12 


For Taurus ascendant, Mars in the 12* house in Aries, results into 
disharmony of conjugal life, which may lead to divorce in most of the 
cases. This is effective Kuja dosha. Widowhood can also not be ruled 
out if 8 house is ill disposed. 


404 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


Observation 3.12 


For Gemini ascendant placement of Mars in the 12" honse in Tanrus 
gives rise to ineffective Kuja dosha. Here Mars forms Vipreet rajayoga 
as well and aspects 3"¢, 6" and 7" house. This may cause health 
problems, eye trouble, injuries, operation, stomach trouble and inimical 
activities of opponents. The husband will be handsome, smart, active, 
energetic, loving and caring provided 7" lord Jupiter is well placed. 


Observation 4.12 


Placement of Mars in Gemini in the 12" house gives rise to ineffective 
Kuja dosha. This is an adverse location of Mars regarding the birth of 
children. 


Observation 5.12 


For Leo ascendant, placement of Mars in the 12" house gives rise to 
effective Kuja dosha. Debilitated Mars in the 12" house creates immense 
passion and infatuation for the pacification of immoral ambition. If Mars 
is unsupported, the native may seek sensnal pleasure with many, resulting 
into unhappy married life. There will be suspicions, donbt and distrust 
by the life partner. 0 


Observations 6.12 


Mars in 12", for Virgo ascendant, does form ineffective Kuja dosha. This 
may enhance the sensual desire of the native and liking towards others. 
Mars in Leo tends to lose its negative qualities, as per our humble 
observation. 


Observation 7.12 


Mars in 12" house in Virgo gives rise to effective Kuja dosha. It tends 
one towards immoral acts during teenage and that reflects a negative 
influence in conjugal life. Many times severe affliction of Mars in 12" 
in Virgo proves to be curse for a native causing loss of life partner, in 
one or the other way. 


Observation 8.12 


Mars in 12" in Libra, for Scorpio ascendant, gives rise to ineffective 
Kuja dosha. The married life remains happy and intact. 


OBSERVATIONS AT A GLANCE 405 


Observation 9,12 


Placement of Mars in the 12" honse in own sign Scorpio does not make 
one mangli. In other words it is ineffective Kuja dosha and does not 
disturb the married life. The predominance over life partner is there in 
most of the cases. But it is a discouraging location of Mars in respect 
of children. 


Observation 10.12 


For Capricorn ascendant, Mars is 4th and 11" Jord and it aspects 3rd, 6th 
and 7" honse. Thus the honses of marriage, marital happiness and sweet 
home are spoiled heavily. We believe that whenever Mars owns the 4! 
honse and joins any of the ¢rik honses, the house of marital happiness 
is spoiled. Similarly if the lord or lord of trik houses join the 4* house 
the home of the native, consisting ofthe native and his wife, gets spoiled. 
Mostly 4* house is not taken into consideration in the examination of 
the matters regarding marriage but it is equally important. Here the 
placement of Mars gives effective Kuja dosha. 


Observation 11.12 


Mars in the 12* house in the sign of exaltation gives rise to slightly 
effective Kuja dosha. It is not very serious mangli dosha but it should 
not be overlooked as well. Accident and quarrels with co-boms are also 
likely. 


Observation 12.12 


Mars in the 12! in Aquarins gives rise to minor Kuja dosha, for Pisces 
ascendant. This creates slight disturbance in married life due to financial 
stress and family conflict. This is also an adverse location for financial 
aspect and trouble in foreign countries. 


SECTION 5 
PEVENTIVE MEASURES 
FOR KUJA DOSHA 


MARTIAL MALADIES 
AND REMEDIES 


ujadosha may create havoc in one's married life if it is not 
balanced in the birth chart of the life partner. Strong Kuja dosha 
AL Xxnay cause widowhood, separation, insanity, accidents resulting 
into physical disability, denial or loss of children, poverty or lack of 
prosperity or the like. In various cases Kuja dosha gives rise to suicide 
or accidental death, murder and kidnapping etc. If such indication, 
due to Kuja dosha, is present in any birth chart, what should be done? 
The destiny cannot be changed but the intensity of the adversity 
caused by the Kuja dosha can definitely be considerably minimized 
by observation of various preventive measures suggested by our 
ancient sages. 

Kuja dosha is caused due to presence of malefic planets in 
sensitive houses of the birth chart. If Mars and /or any malefic joins 
the Is, 2nd, 4th, 7th, 8thor 12" house in a horoscope, Kuja dosha 
is said to be present. Adversities get automatically neutralized if a 
similar Kuja dosha is present in the birth chart of the spouse. 

If the Kuja dosha is present in one horoscope and is not present 
in the horoscope of the spouse, adversities will appear after the 
marriage in one or the other way. To minimize such adversities 
following preventive measures have been found to be very useful. We 
have advised these rectificational measures to various subjects who 
were facing different kind of miseries related to their conjugal bliss, 
prosperity, health, children, profession and mental disorder etc. 

Preventive measures can broadly be grouped into following 
categories: 


. Selection of a suitable Muhurt for marriage 

Recitation of appropriate Mantras and Stotras 

. Observation of suitable Vrat 

Daan or Donation-giving in Alms money, articles or grains to the 


poor. 
5. Wearing of suitable Gems 


yw eet acatea, aca net f& wy 1 
agar ug: ewe:, ude adweroy // 


That mouth is worth praising, which speaks sweet words like 
honey and removes all the troubles with sweet words. 


CHAPTER 5.1 


SELECTION OF SUITABLE 
MUHURT FOR MARRIAGE 


Jt has been quite distinctly mentioned in various texts that the time of 
performance of any work or the moment at which any specific work is 
undertaken is of great importance. If we can find out an appropriate 
Muhurt for marriage that will certainly prevent the adversities of Kuja 
dosha. 

A mangli girl should not be married in the Nakshatra or the sign 
of Mars. A boy or girl bom in Jyestha nakshatra should never be got 
married in the month of Jyestha. 

Following asterisms have been specified as suitable for marriage: 

1. Rohini 

2. Mragshira 

3. Magha 

4. Uttaraphalguni 

5. Hasta 

6. Swati 

7. Anuradha 

8. Moola 
9. Uttarashada 
10. Uttarabhadrapada 
I}. Revati 

Suitable year, month, day and nakshatra should be selected for 
marriage after proper consideration of the placement of malefic planets 
in the birth chart. In the following pages we will explain how to elect 
proper Muhurt for marriage. 


SELECTION OF SUITABLE MUHURT FOR MARRIAGE 411 


1. We have mentioned eleven constellations, which are approved by 


2: 


sages for the performance of marriage. But there are four other 
constellations also which have been permitted, by some other 
sages, as suitable for marriage. 

¢ Aswini 

¢ Chitra 

e Sravana 

e Dhanishtha 

Last 3 ghatis of all these nakshatras should be avoided for marriage. 

When Jupiter transits in Leo for approximately one year, the 
marriages are prohibited. Similarly when Sun transits in Jupiter's 
sign Sagittarius or Pisces, marriages are not permitted. We believe 
that to avoid marriage for the whole year of Jupiter's transit in Leo 
is not practical. Therefore marriages should be avoided only when 
Jupiter transits in vargottam navamsa i. the transit of Jupiter in 
the first pada of Poorvabhadrapada must be strictly avoided for 
marriage. 
Similarly the transit of Jupiter in the sign of debilitation i.e. 
Capricorn, is also adverse for performing the marriage. However, 
only the period when Jupiter transits in the first 5 degrees of 
Capricom should be avoided. 
Marriages are not performed when Jupiter or Venus are combust. 


. Marriages are not performed during Adhik Maas i.e. the month 


having two Sun sankraanti or the month having no Sun sankraanti. 


. Krishna Paksha ie. the Shradha paksha is strictly prohibited for 


marriage. 


. Ang Paksha (fortnight having 13 days only) should also be avoided 


for marriage. 


. 13 Junar day of Krishna Paksha to new moon day i. Pratipada 


of bright lunar half is also bad for marriage. 


. The day of solar and lunar eclipse and one day before it and three 


days after are very bad for any auspicious work including marriage. 

. If there is total lunar or solar eclipse, the nakshatra in which the 
eclipse occurs should be rejected for any auspicious work for six 
months, and three months for partial eclipse. 


. Holaashtak takes place from ashtami of Phalgun shukla paksha 


to purnamashi. This period of 8 days is adverse for performing any 
auspicious work. 


. Four months Sravana, Bhadrapada, Ashwin and Kartik are prohib- 


ited for marriage etc. This is called chaturmaas. 


412 


13. 


14. 


15. 


AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


Purnamashi i.e. full moon day is good for marriage provided it is 
identical to the nakshatra of marriage. 
No marriage or auspicious celebration should be there in Bhadra. 
This is well known that Bhadra is most inauspicious. 
Following yogas are inauspicious for marriage and other celebra- 
tions: 

a. first half of Parigha. 

b. first three ghatis of Vishkkumbh and Vajra 

c. first five ghatis of Shoola 

d. first six ghatis of Ganda and Atiganda 

e. first nine ghatis of Vyatighat 


. When the Sun transits at 2°, 11°, 20° and 29° it is said to be the 


period of Mriytu Baan. These dates and nakshatras, which fall in 
Mrityu Baan, are also inauspicious for marriage. 


. Dagdha tithis are very bad for marriage 


6" tithi (Shasthi) when Sun transits in Aries or Cancer. 
4" tithi (Chaturthi) when Sun transits in Taurus or Aquarius. 
8" rithi ie. Ashtami when the Sun transits in Gemini or Virgo. 
10" fithi ie. Dasami, when the Sun transits in Leo or Scorpio. 
12* tithi 1. Dwadasi, when the Sun transits in Libra or 
Capricorn. : 
f. 2° tithi i.e. Dwitiya, when the Sun transits 
Pisces. 


eo Roop 


in Sagittarius or 


lf Jupiter, Venus and Mercury are placed in Kendra or Trikona 


except the 7* house, then the adversities caused by Dagdha tithis get 
automatically eliminated. 


18. 


Deaf Lagnas: 
a. during night—Libra and Capricorn 
b. during day——-Libra and Scorpio 
c. during noon——Libra, Scorpio and Sagittarius 


Blind Lagnas 


a. during night——Virgo, Gemini and Cancer 
b. during day Leo, Aries and Taurus 


Lame Lagnas 


a. during night--Pisces 
b. during day——Aquarius 


Haunch backed Lagnas 


a. during morning—Capricorn, Aquarius and Pisces 
b. during evening——Capricorn, Aquarius and Pisces 


SELECTION OF SUITABLE MUHURT FOR MARRIAGE 413 


If marriages are performed in these Lagnas different types of 


adversities may result e.g. 


20. 


21. 


22. 


23. 


24. 


25. 


26. 


27. 


28, 


29. 


30. 


Marriage in deaf Lagnas brings poverty. 

Marriage in day blind Lagnas results in widowhood. 
Marriage in night blind Lagnas causes death of children. 
Marriage in Lame Lagnas causes loss of wealth. 


. Auspicious Lagras—Libra, Taurus, Gemini, Virgo and Sagittarius 


are considered auspicious Lagnas for marriage. Rest are average. 
If Saturn occupies the 12" house, Mars joins the 10", Venus falls 
in the 3" house or Moon falls in lagna from vivah lagna, it is 
inauspicious. Lord of lagna, Venus and Moon are inauspicious if 
placed in 6" or 8" house fiom vivah lagna. 

No planet in 7" house is considered good as far as vivah lagna 
is concerned, except Jupiter or Moon. 

Moon, Venus or lord of Jagna should not occupy the 8” house from 
vivah lagna. Debilitated Moon or Venus in the 6" house are not 
so bad. 

The 8” house is most adverse as far as vivah lagna is concerned. 
It should be free from all planets 

No planet is adverse in 2", Sth, 9", and 11", 

Satum gives bad results in the 12" house and the adversities caused 
by Satu in the 12"" get eliminated by donation and mantra-japa 
etc. 

Following lunar months should be chosen for marriage 

Magha, Phalgun, Vaishakha, Jyeshtha are the best months for 
marriage. Kartik and Margshish are ordinary. The rest of the 
months are inauspicious for the purpose of marriage. 

A few sages have stated that the marriage can take place in that 
portion of lunar month Pushya that is covered by the stay of Sun 
in Capricorn. Marriage can also take place in that portion of the 
month Chaitra that is covered by the stay of Sun in Aries. 
Inauspicious dates for marriage-Rikta tithis are 6", 8" and 12”. 
They should be rejected for marriage. Ekadashi (11"" lunar day), 
Dwadashi (12thlunar day), Trayodashi (13'" lunar day), Chaturdashi 
(14'" lunar day) and new moon day of the dark half should also 
be rejected for marriage. 

Best lunar dates for marriage-the 2", 3°, 5, 7, 10", 11*, and 
13” lunar dates of the bright half are considered as best tithis. 
Best days for marriage-Monday, Wednesday, Thursday and Friday 
are the best days. Tuesday must invariably be rejected for marriage. 


414 


32. 


33. 


34. 


35. 


36. 


37. 


AN INSIGHT INIO KUJA DOSHA 


Sunday and Saturday may be selected only in case of emergency. 


. Yogas-Following yogas should be rejected in election of marriage 


time. 

1, Vyatipata yoga. 2. Dhruva yoga. 3. Mrityu yoga 4. Ganda yoga 
5. Vajra yoga 6. Shoola yoga 7. Vishkumbha yoga 8. Atiganda yoga 
9. Vyaghata yoga 10. Parigha yoga. 

Among the zodiacal signs Gemini, Virgo and Libra are the best. 
Taurus, Cancer, Leo, Sagittarius and Aquarius are middling. The 
rest signs are inauspicious. 

The 7* house must not be occupied by any malefics as reckoned 
from the lagna at the time of marriage. Mars should not be placed 
in the 8" house. Venus should not be in the 6" and Jagna should 
not be hemmed in between malefics. Malefics should not occupy 
lagna, and Moon in the Muhurt chart should not be associated with 
any other planet 

The Tara Bala and Panchak etc. must also be looked into. Jupiter, 
Venus or Mercury in the /agna are auspicious. Evil planets in the 
3" or 11" will constitute a formidable force in rendering the lagna 
strong. 

Following are a few particular yogas which will fortify the marriage 
election chart: 

a. Jupiter in the ascendant, Venus in the 8" arid the Sun in the 

11" give rise to Mahendra yoga. 
b. Venus in /agna, Jupiter in the 10* and Sun and Mercury in 
11 form Vishnu-priya yoga. 

c. Venus in 2", Jupiter in the 12", the Sun in the 8" and Satum 

in the 6" will give rise to Shreenath yoga. 

d. Venus in /agna, Jupiter in the 4m Mercury in the 2™ and 

Saturn in the 11" will make Samudra yoga. 

e. Mercury, Jupiter and Venus in lagna form Vijaya yoga. 

f. Venus and Jupiter in /agna, elevated or otherwise strong, 

constitute Jaya yoga. 

g. Satum in the 3", Jupiter in the 6", the Sun in the 10* and 

Mars in the 1!2*-Pushya yoga 

h. Mars in the 3", Satum in the 6", Venus in the 9*, Jupiter 

in the 12*-Maharishi yoga. 

i. Venus in lagna, Jupiter in the 11'*——Aradhama yoga. 
Marriage of the first-born son or daughter should not be performed 
in the month, nakshatra or the tithi in which he or she was born. 
The marriage of the eldest son {jyestha putra) should not take place 


SELECTION OF SUITABLE MUHURT FOR MARRIAGE 415 


along with eldest daughter (jyestha kanya) in Jyestha maas. One 
school of thought suggests that this kind of dosha gets nullified 
if the Sun stays in Krittika. 

38. Guru bala for girls: Guru bala must be considered in the chart of 
a girl while electing the time of marriage. Transit of Jupiter in the 
"5%" 11, 24 and 7" houses from moon rashi is auspicious. 
Jupiter in the 10,3", 6" or 15‘ is middling but the transit of Jupiter 
in 4", 8" and 12'" houses from Moon is adverse. The marriage of 
a girl should not take place in that year in which Jupiter transits 
in her 4", 8 or 12" house from Moon. 

39. Surya Bala: Similarly the Sun in the 3, 6", 10° and 11" house 
from Moon is auspicious for boys. In 1%, 24, 5", 7", 9" it is 
middling. But in the 4", 8", and 12" houses from Moon it is most 
inauspicious. Therefore the mariage of a boy should not be 
performed in the month when the Sun transits in his 4", 8" or 12* 
house from Moon. 

40. Chandra Bala: Chandra bala is most important and must be given 
top priority. Even in cases of those marriages which are done in 
emergency and the consideration ef Guru bala, Surya bala, lunar 
months etc. are not made, the proper consideration of Chandra bala 
is most essential. Moon should not transit in the 4"", 6", 8" or the 
12" honse from radical Moon on the date of marriage. The Moon's 
transit in the 3°, 6". 7. 10" and 11"" houses are auspicious. The 
transit of Moon in 1, 2™, 5" and 9" is middling and 4*, 8" and 
12 are inauspicious. Chandra bala should be considered in the 
horoscope of both boy and girl with an equal importance for a 
happy, prosperous and long lasting married life. 

41. For performance of marriage Libra, Gemini, Virgo, Taurus and 
Sagittarius Lagnas are considered auspicious. Rest of the Lagnas 
are average. 

42. Certain Lagnas are handicapped, such as 

a. Libra and Scorpio are handicapped in daytime. 

b. Libra and Capricom are deaf during night 

c. Leo, Aries and Taurus are blind during daytime while Virgo, 
Gemini and Cancer are blind during night. 
Aquarius is lame during day while Pisces during night. 

e. Pisces, Aquarius and Capricorn in the morning are Kubn 
Lagnas. 

These Lagnas are inauspicious and marriage should not be per- 
formed while these are ascending. 


416 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


Deaf Lagnas bring poverty. Day blind Lagnas cause widowhood. 
Night blind Lagnas cause !oss of children. Handicapped Lagnas result 
into loss of money. Thus the proper study of these Lagnas must be made 
in electing the time of marriage. 


Ten doshas in muhurt for marriage 


1. Vedha dosha: 
Panch shalaka chakra should be made and the name of constel- 
lations should be placed in the chart as per the classical rules. The 
Vedha exists in the following nakshatras: - 
a. Between Rohini and Abhijeet. 
Between Bharani and Anuradha. 
Uttarashada and Mragshira 
Sravana and Magna 
Swati and Satabhisha 
Moola and Punarvasu 
Uttaraphalguni and Revati 
Cancellation of Vedha dosha: Sages have mentioned that the 
Vedha dosha will be nullified if the lagna is occupied by 
benefics or the lord of the lagna is well placed in the 11" 
house or that is conjoined with or aspected by benefics. 
2. Paat dosha: 
There are 27 yogas based on astrology, which fall in one or the 
other nakshatras. The nakshatras are considered under the influ- 
ence of Paat dosha in which the following yogas end: 


a. Harshan b. Vyadhrit c.Sadhya 
d. Vyatipati e. Gand f. Shoola 


3. Yuti Dosha: 
Conjunction or 'Yuti' of Moon with certain planets brings about 
certain adverse results e.g. poverty, death etc. as given below: 


Rw me aos 


a. Moon-Sun Poverty 

b. Moon-Mars Death 

c. Moon-Venus Dampatya_ vairaag 
d. Moon-Saturn Papa 

e. Moon-Rahu Death 

f. Moon-Ketn Death 


But Yuti dosha gets cancelled if Moon joins own sign Cancer 
or the sign of its exaltation Taurus or is placed in a friendly 
sign Gemini, Virgo or Leo. 


SELECTION OF SUITABLE MUHURT FOR MARRIAGE 417 


4. Kranti Samya Dosha: 
Ifthe Sun and Moon are placed in following two signs, the Muhurt 
is said to snffer from Kranti Samya dosha. 

a. Aries-Leo i. ifthe Sun is placed in Aries and Moon in Leo, 

or 

Libra-Aries. or 

Tanrus-Capricorn, or 

Cancer-Scorpio, or 

Virgo-Pisces, or 

f. Sagittarins-Gemini 

5. Latta Dosha: 
Mercury suffers from Latta dosha in the 7* nakshatra earlier to 
the particular nakshatra in which Mercury is placed. Similarly 
Rahu does so in the 9" nakshatra earlier to that in which it is 
placed, Moon in the 20", Venns in the 5‘, the Sun in the 12", 
Saturn in gt Jupiter in 6" and Mars in 3" suffer from Latta dosha. 

6. Ekangil Dosha: 
Ekangil dosha exists in the following yogas formed if reckoned 
from the constellation in which the Sun falls: 
Vyaghat, Gand, Vyatipat, Vishkumbha, Shoola, Vyadhrit, Vajra, 
Paridh and Atigand. 

7. Budh Panchak Dosha: 
See that how many degrees of the Snn have passed in the sign in 
which the Sun is posited. It is called Gatansha. Keep that figure 
at 5 places and add 6, 3, 1,8 and 4 respectively. Divide the sum 
by 9. lf the remainder is 5 in any of these, Budh Panchak dosha 
will be there. 

8. Dagdh Tithi Dosha: 
When Sun stays in Sagittarius or Capricorn, 2"¢ lunar day (Dwitiya) 
is Dagdh tithi (burnt). Similarly 4* lunar day will suffer from 
Dagdh tithi dosha when Sun stays in Aquarius, 6" lunar day when 
Sun stays in Aries or Cancer, 8" lunar day during the 


ene s 


Important points with reference to marriage and Muhurt 


1. The marriage of first son or daughter should not be performed in 
the same month, nakshatra or tithi in which he or she was born. 
But this is not essential when the first conception had been spoiled 
due to any reason. 

2. The marriage of eldest son with the eldest danghter shonld never 
be performed in Jyestha maas. Such marriages don't prosper. 


418 


AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


However, such marriage with the eldest son of eldest daughter can 
take place in Jyestha maas, only during that period when the Sun 
transits in Krittika nakshatra. Such a marriage is called Tri-jyestha 
marriage and that should be avoided. 


. Marriage should not be performed in the moon sign of either of 


the partner and that is further bad if the marriage takes place in 
the janam_ nakshatra of either partner. 

Godhuli lagna: When we do not get proper lagna for marriage 
Godhuli lagna is advised. The godhuli lagna begins 12 minutes 
before the sunset and extends till 12 minutes after the sunset. Vivah 
lagna means that kanya daan should particularly be over within 
that lagna. 


. Vivah lagna should never be the 8" or the 12'* from the moon sign 


of the girl or the boy. This is especially so if the vivah lagna lord 
is inimical to the moon sign lord of either of the partners. 
Marriage of the boy should take place in his odd year of age 
whereas that of the girl in the even year of her age. 


. The natives who are bom in Aslesha, Moola, Jyestha or Vishakha 


nakshatra, their marriage should be settled after going through 
following points. 

a. If the girl or the boy is bom in the last three pada of Aslesha 
nakshatra that will be fatal for mother in law. It will not be 
so if they are bom in 1“ pada of Aslesha. 

b. Ifthe girl or the boy is bom in the first three pada of Moola 
nakshatra that will be fatal for father in law. But it will not 
be so if the birth has taken place in 4" pada of Moola. 

c. Birth in Jyestha nakshatra is very adverse for elder brother 
of the partner. 

d. If the girl or the boy is born in the 4* pada of vishakha 
nakshatra that will be fatal for the younger brother. But if 
they are born in [* three padas of vishakha, then it will be 
not so. 

8. If the birth nakshatra of the boy is next to that of the girl 
it is adverse for the health of the husband. 

9. The marriage of daughter should not take place within six 
month of the marriage of son. But the marriage of son can 
be done any time after the marriage of the daughter. 


10. The marriage of two real daughters should not take place within 


HH. 


a period of six months. 
Kalidas mentions in Uttarakalamrit that the girl should be younger 


12. 


15. 


17. 


18. 


SELECTION OF SUITABLE MUHURT FOR MARRIAGE 419 


than the boy in age and she should be healthy. She should have 
a different Gotra and Pravra. 

The girl is considered not bad within the group of relations that 
deserves funeral libation from the boy ie. avoid Saapindya. 


. If at all the Saapindya can not be avoided then find out the 


generations at which the family becomes different from that of 
bride and bridegroom, and the difference of family must be counted 
as far as the seventh and fifth removed from the father and mother 
respectively of both bride and bridegroom. 


. In the case of children of a man or woman or in the case of bride 


and bridegroom the Saapindya relationship should be taken into 
consideration as far as fourth removed from the father of the 
concemed person, and fifth removed from the mother. And within 
that group marital alliance ought to be rejected. Beyond that there 
is no objection. If the Saapindya retires at a certain stage for one 
partner it does so for other as well. 

According to some authorities, the fourth (from the mother) is 
accepted i.e. only three generations are forbidden for marriage and 
from the fourth onward there is no objection but the girls who stand 
as sisters, mothers and daughters are forbidden. 


. Marital alliance may be entered between the sixth generation in 


one line and the fifth in the other, and between the fifth generation 
provided the girl does not come under the relationship of sister to 
the boy. In Orissa and Tamil Nadu, third generation is permissible 
but is not applicable at all places. If the bride belongs to the sixth 
or eighth generation in the line of the bridegroom, the prohibition 
is lifted. 

The word Saapindya denotes those who have equal relationship 
with the ‘pinda’ or body of the common fore father. The body 
consists of the six sheaths; bones, muscles and marrow are derived 
from the father, and skin, flesh and blood from the mother. 
Reckoning is made with reference to a common forefather of bride 
and bridegroom both, if applicable. If this common relationship is 
not of a binding character though strong, still there is no question 
of inheritance of property, marriage is permissible. 

A person's daughters should not be married in the same family or 
sons of the same parents but if they are twin sisters they can be 
simultaneously married to twin brothers. Still there is an exception 
where a husband may marry his wife's own sister, in case he desires 
for progeny and if his wife had deserted him for somebody else. 


420 


19 


20. 


21. 


22 


23. 


24, 


AN INSIGHT INIO KUJA DOSHA 


. A person gets Saappindya relationship with her stepmother for 
three generations. In case the stepmother is issue less, the daughters 
of her maternal uncle will not at all stand in the relationship of 
her mother to him i.e. in such case the person can marry the cousin 
of his stepmother. The stepmother's sister's daughter too will not 
be a sister to him. 

After departure of the Saapindya relationship, a person may marry 
a girl who stands in the relationship of a mother's sister, as well 
as the girl who becomes a daughter in the same manner. This is 
permitted only in the areas south of Narmada. Even, when the 
Saapindya is hidden, alliance is permitted in that region between 
persons belonging to generations within five and three in case of 
the father and mother respectively. 

One's maternal uncle's daughter is to be treated at par with a girl 
of one's own gotra. The alliance between one's maternal uncle's 
daughter or with the daughter of one's own father's sister is 
forbidden. 

According to ‘Vyas’ four kinds of women are not recommended: 

a. One who has illicit connection with disciples. 

b. Or who is a preceptor. 

c. Or who hates her husband. - 

d. Or who is guilty of cohabitation with a low class bastard. 

The Saapindys relationship extends for three generations with 
regard to a gl of a woman belonging to the same caste as her 
husband's. But all those, born of the same father but of mother of 
different castes, become brothers and sisters mutually. Similarly all 
the wives of the father are mothers to all the children. If a person 
is given in adoption within the family circle itself, there is 
Saapindya for seven generations, of course, relaxable to Kshatriyas 
restricting to a lower number of generations. 
One ought not to marry (i) the sister of father's brother's wife (ii) 
the sister of mother's co-wife, the daughters of (i) and (ii), (iii) the 
sister of brother's wife (iv) one who stands in the relationship of 
a mother, (v) teacher's daughters and (vi) one's son's daughter i.e. 
the daughter of one who stands in the relationship of his son. 


o 


° 
> 


6, 


? oe 2.e o 


x4 


% 


6, 
CO 


iM 
“Se 


o, 
’ 


«, 


euler eat araay,aqrarecfua: aar | 
WIATA n Aater, feqa: aaaryay is 


Those ears are appreciated which hear good sentences and 
drink the nectar of good speech in the company of noble people. 


CHAPTER 52, 


VISHNU PRATIMA VIVAH 


the adversities caused due to Kuja dosha is to perform the 

marriage of a girl with Lord Vishnu. It is believed that lord 
Vishnu becomes her first husband and all the adversities, caused by Kuja 
dosha, are transferred to Him. After performing Vishnu Pratima Vivah, 
the girl enters into wedlock with her life partner, chosen by her parents 
or herself. The person chosen in this way becomes her second husband 
becanse the first marriage was performed with lord Vishnu. 

Proper Muhurt should be elected for marriage for Vishnu Pratima 
Vivah, on the basis of the position of Moon in the birth chart of the girl. 
Vishnu Vivah should be performed before the settlement of the marriage 
of the girl. Any small idol of lord Vishnn, either made of gold, silver, 
brass or copper, should be used for the marriage. Pran prathistha, in 
the idol, should be done properly, by any learned and experienced 
Acharya. After this the marriage rituals should be done, in the elected 
time for marriage, by the girl herself. After performing Havan, the girl 
takes the idol of Vishnu in her both hands and takes seven rounds or 
saptapadi. She must feel that she is now the wife of lord Vishnu. This 
is called Vishnu Pratima Viavah. While the parents of the girl do not 
participate in this marriage; they do not perform the rituals of Kanyaadaan. 
It so happens because of the fact that after giving the hands of their 
daughter to lord Vishnn, they would not be able to do so during the 
marriage of their daughter with any other man. Therefore in practice, 
Kanyaadaan, in this marriage is performed by any of the girl's uncle 
or fatherly relative. If there is no such person who can perform 
Kanyaadaan, the girl herself marries lord Vishnu without the ceremony 


():: of the most accepted and common methods of eliminating 


422 AN INSIGHT INIO KUJA DOSHA 


of Kanyaadaan, just like Gandharva Vivah or love marriage. Mostly 
Vishnu Pratima Vivah is performed on the banks of a river or in the 
courtyard or the platform of a temple. The girl has to utter all the mantras 
and perform all rituals of the actual marriage. 

Vishnu Pratima Vivah is also called ‘Kumbh Vivah' or 'Vat Vriksha 
Vivah’ when aavaahan of lord Vishnu is done in an earthen pitcher 
(‘Kumbh’) filled up with water. Pran Prathistha Poojan is also per- 
formed on the ‘Kumbh’as is done in the case of idol of lord Vishnu. 
After performing all rituals, the girl picks up the pitcher and performs 
saptapadi. Vat Vriksha Vivah is also the same thing. It is believed that 
lord Vishnu resides in Vat Vriksha. In this case, the Pran Prathistha of 
lord Vishnu is not required, but shodashopchar poojan (16 fold worship) 
is done, like in above two cases. After completing the marriage process 
the girl makes the seven rounds of Vat Vriksha. 

In this way, the marriage of the girl is performed with lord Vishnu, 
either by way of Vishnu Pratima Vivah, Kumbh Vivah or Vat Vriksha 
Vivah. After the completion of marriage Dakshina should be given to 
Acharya who performed the marriage rituals. Thereafter, the girl takes 
off her sari and all other garments worn at the time of marriage and hands 
them over to Acharya. She takes out her bangles, mostly of the red colour. 
These bangles should be broken or thrown in the flowing"water of a river. 
If the Kumbh Vivah is performed, the earthen pitcher should be broken 
at the same place. In case of Vishnu Pratima Vivah, the girl must keep 
the Vishnu ido} with her. On all important occasions and festivals, she 
should worship lord Vishnu in one or the other way. In case of Vat 
Vriksha Vivah, she should commit to memory the particular tree and 
whenever she gets opportunity to go there, she would touch the bottom 
of the tree thinking that as if she was touching the feet of lord Vishnu. 
However, after the settlement of marriage with someone, she should take 
permission from lord Vishnu for the second marriage. The process of 
taking permission is to worship lord Vishnu, by performing Shodashopchar 
poojan, with total dedication. The girl should pray to lord Vishnu, stating 
that she wants to marry a particular person, provided the lord permits 
her to do so. It is believed that after the prayer, lord Vishnu grants 
permission to the girl for the second marriage. Apart from getting 
permission for marriage, the girl also receives the blessings of saubhagya 
and Dampatya sukh i.e. happy married life, from the lord, throughout 
her life. In this way, the girl gets rid of the adversities of Kuja dosha. 

In case of the marriage of the boys, who are suffering from Kuja 
dosha, the first marriage is performed in the same way either with Tulsi 


VISHNU PRATIMA VIVAH 423 


or Ark tree (MadarTree). It is said that this way the first wife will be 
Tulsi or Ark and all the adversities of Kuja dosha will be ceded to the 
deity concerned. This marriage should be performed before selecting a 
girl for his marriage. After this first marriage with Tulsi or Ark, selection 
process of the bride may be started. Finally, the second or the actual 
marriage is performed. This way the evils of Kuja dosha or the possibility 
of miserable married life or the death of wife or separation will be done 
away with. 

These are the common ways followed to end Kuja dosha. We have 
performed many Vishnu pratima Vivahs, in our presence and so far, no 
casualty or problems in married life have been seen, -except for one case- 
when both the husband and wife met with a severe road accident, after 
10 years of their marriage. While the husband died on the spot, the wife 
received multiple fractures. Though Vishnu Pratima Vivah was per- 
formed, the girl afflicted with very strong mangli dosha, did not follow 
other instructions that include seeking permission from lord Vishnu for 
the second marriage etc. 

It may be mentioned that strong mangli girls may also adopt other 
methods to do away with Kuja dosha. These measures include Mangla 
Gauri Vrat, Vat Savitri Vrat, recitation of Vedic mantras of Mars, Mangal 
Chandika Stotra, Parvati Swaymvar Stotra and donation of specific 
items on Tuesdays. It is assured that the girl who undertakes all possible 
remedial measures regarding prevention of Kuja dosha will lead a happy 
and lasting marital life and enjoy the conjugal bliss of high order. 


Beal erert Tat n, Uae at eta waaay 
siaet at warat va:, waatet a ada si 


Those hands can be praised which remove the distress of others 
and which provide shelter to the poor. 


CHAPTER 5.3 


REMEDIES THROUGH 
MANTRAS 


ur sages were visionaries to advise the forthcoming generation 

of various sooktas, stotras and mantras to prevent various kinds 

of miseries, mishaps and maladies of married life. We have a 
wide experience of the subject of curative measures and preventive art. 
We will be giving hereunder various mantras and stotras, which can 
certainly prevent the curse of widowhood, provided ‘these remedial 
measures and mantras are followed properly with correct pronunciation, 
absolute faith, dedication and Satwik living along with honesty and 
loyalty towards spouse. 

Any mantra or sfotra must be done after proper shdoshopchar 
poojan of the concerning deity and taking proper sankalp for the same. 
Sankalp is nothing but a pledge or promise to the concerning deity that 
the person wil! be reciting or chanting so many number of the particular 
mantra for so many days to get the blessings of deity for the fulfilment 
of his particular ambition, and to nullify the adverse effect of malefic 
planets. In sankalp, one has to identify him and the time, place and 
purpose i. e. he should pronounce his or her name along with the name 
of his father or her husband with gotra as well. The day and date ie. 
tithis, vaar, samvat and place of worship should also be pronounced. In 
fact before taking up any worship, anusthan, mantra jap and vrat etc. 
first of all we should introduce or define ourselves and the date, day and 
year should also be spoken along with the name of place. In the second 
half of the sankalp,'name of deity, purpose of sankalp and number of 
mantra should be spoken. Mostly sankalp is read in Sanskrit but it is 


REMEDIES THROUGH MANTRAS 425 


not at all essential. The sankalp may be read or spoken in any language 
in which one can easily and correctly express oneself. 

Mars plays a vital role in causing loss of spouse, especially to cause 
widowhood to a woman. It is correctly believed that Mars is the 
significator of widowhood and Jupiter is the significator of saubhagya, 
in case of female natives. Mangli girls are apprehensive of widowhood 
as placement of Mars in the ascendant, 7" or 8" house gives rise to the 
untimely loss of husband. We can assure such mangli natives that 
widowhood can be prevented, in case one is sincere to take up the 
remedial measures as advised by our sages. 

Following are the most important, preventive, and appropriate 
mantras, which a woman can recite regularly. It will be advantageous 
if Mangli girls recited or read these mantra and stotra before finalisation 
of marriage. If the girl is having combination of widowhood in her birth 
chart, she must take up remedial measures soon after she has come of 
age. The most important, useful and tested mantras to prevent one from 
the adversities and evils of Mars are given below. Most of these remedial 
measures are rarely known and are not found anywhere in published 
works on the subject. The remedial measures should be followed very 
sincerely with full faith and belief when one is suffering from Kuja 
Dosha. The mantras are not for fun and frolic. Any kind of worship, 
mantra, jap and vrat etc. should not be undertaken during their men- 
struation periods by women. The women will be highly benefited and 
all marital disaster and mishappenings will be prevented by proper, 
appropriate and correct application of mantra and stotra. 


VARIOUS MANTRAS OF MARS 


When Mars is adversely placed in the birth chart and such placement 
of Mars indicates any kind of marital disaster, divorce, widowhood or 
any other mishappening such as murder, attack by criminals, accident, 
fight, conflict, confrontation, surgical operation or obstruction in child- 
birth, one should recite the mantra of Mars in a proper manner. 

Mantras of Mars are of various kinds but the Vedic mantras are 
most effective and give lasting results. However, everybody may not 
recite the Vedic mantra of Mars and therefore, there are other small 
and simple mantras also. The recitation of these mantras is simple 
and can easily be undertaken by even those who can not read correct 
Sanskrit. 

We are making an honest effort to write all kinds of Mantras relating 
to Mars for the benefit of readers and sufferers. 


426 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


Recitation of mantra is most useful for the prevention of Kuja 
Dosha, widowhood, separation and marital maladies of all kinds, if Mars 
plays a negative role in the birth chart, in regard to marriage. If one 
cannot read lengthy mantras and stotras in Sanskrit, he can easily recite 
small Vedic, Pauranik or tantrik mantras for at least 10,000 times. It is 
advised that the number of mantras should be four times in Kaliyug to 
get best results. So the subject should recite these mantras for 40,000 
times in total and should perform ¢dashamsa havan, tarpan, marjan etc., 
either by him or through a leamed acharya. 


A) VEDIC MANTRA OF MARS 
VINIYOG (Ra) 


atria waa frene afte meat ox 
Ary tae ATT Ta Te farrarts | 


MANTRA (4-28) 
&S at at ai ae HS yeas ee HS alrfesl feas aaqafas 
greanssay om ta tar va fara! S ee que yp 
Has at at et a” sea Ae | 
This is most useful and important Vedic Mantra of Mars. "74"is to be 
pronounced as GVANG. 
B) PAURANIK MANTRA OF MARS 
This is Pauranik mantra and can be easily recited. 
eros wae fegeaa | FATT! 
Ba Siar TAT TOTEM | 
C) TANTRIK MANTRAS OF MARS 


If one cannot read Vedic Mantra of Mars correctly, he or she should recite 
Tantrik Mantra of Mars regularly. 


Tantrik Mantra of Mars No. 1. 

Sar a ory fim Fe! 
Tantrik Mantra of Mars No. 2. 

Har sire TA | 


REMEDIES THROUGH MANTRAS 427 


Tantrik Mantra of Mars No. 3. 


@ ef omy Ret! 


D) ANGARAK MANTRA OF MARS 
GH ARB TAH | 

Any of the above mantras should be recited for 10,000 times to eliminate 
the adverse results of Mars but to get the best results four times of this, 
that is 40,000 times the mantra relating to Mars are required to be recited. 
It is a prerequisite in Kaliyug that any mantra gives its best effects when 
it is recited four times, than that of the number of mantra advised to be 
done in other yugs, such as Satyayug, Dwapar and Tretayug. Probably 
it is so becanse one is surrounded by enumerable evils, sins of various 
kinds and crimes as because one is bom in Kaliyug. The following 


mantra should also be done along with the Vedic, tantrik or pauranik 
mantra. 


DUGG Tegan. 7 snare ona | 
This mantra should be recited 108 times along with other mantras to get 
the lasting and permanent results. 

Kartikeya, son of Shiva, General of armies of devtas, is the ocean 
of knowledge who moves on a holy, pure and chaste peacock; the above 
mentioned mantra should be recited along with the mantras of Mars to 
get more advantage and to produce acceleration in the results of the 
mantras. Kartikeya has red complexion, like blood or kamkum. Worship 
of Kartikeya should be done with red sandal, red rose flower, roll, red 
betel nut, red kesar, red coral and red sweets. 

Following stotra belongs to Kartikeya who slew "Tarakasur". This 
stotra may also be read for the enhancement of the beneficial results 
quickly. 


aidéa aa: KARTIKEYA STOTRA 


H St THT TA 


ae Tea 
area wera aiftearshrrcsr | 
waras Bare frnfts wary sierra s it’ 
THRRMTISIA Terre Fuerza | 


428 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


ARBIRCHGAS BIFMRGT TST | | 
srerengaead Rrge area Jeez | 
ATHY TANT APPETITES | | 


srr mrorefiers Yelat aferar te | 
FA TTTNA a anfeanetaeotae | 


PHY Te PUSET TAT WORT PHS T/ 
TON Yet TAS FT a ah aaTT TSE T/ 
aidthT IS TF Wa aera aa FUSE T/ 
TSIM RIS ¢F wa eyez TAS 7! 
Sra AAT THSeY FT AA Sr THR PSE T/ 
PY TIS F ae ar Wer TIS T/ 

a aa PISe TF Te Aare FASE T/ 

THI PSY F AT Waa TAS T/ 
qe sem wore story geese | 
Freerat Fea BIBT | 

aaah ara TwikrTt ses | 

BH waqoryey TE Fer | | 

TGA Mer TFA Me TFA MT TTA | 
yaar ferear yarerra ferer yore Rr qareror | 
TRATT THAMT THAT THAT | 

Weaaqat Warnart Wards Terra | | 

al Tae al TTT TIT Tye at Perr rer 
Rra Rr qererog oreerorerer ArT! | 


E) MANGAL CHANDIKA MANTRA 


The following mantra must be read by all mangli girls and ladies, 
whether they are strong or weak mangli. Mars can exhibit its adversity 


REMEDIES THROUGH MANTRAS 429 


at any stage of life whenever concerning dasa-bhukti is operative over 
the native. Influence of Mars may create much turbulence around 2!. 
28, 35 or 42 years of age, provided one come under the influence of 
adverse planetary vibrations of dasa-bhukti as well. 

Mata Gauri ie. Mata Parvati is the goddess of the saubhagya of 
females. It is a common belief in all females that regular worship of Mata 
Gauri will provide them “Akhand Saubhagya". It is advisable to have 
a small idol of Mata Gauri made of copper or brass, bronze or ashta 
dhatu. Get the Prana pratishtha done by some learned, experienced and 
knowledgeable acharya. Worship Mata Gauri by doing shodshopchar 
poojan every day. First of all, light a five-sided lamp {Ranch Mukhi 
Deepak), thereafter complete the shodshopchar or panchopchar poojan 
of Mata Gauri. Thereafter, recite the following mantra for at least 28 
times every day. The recital may be enhanced gradually from 28 to 56 
and after a month or so to [08. It may be noted that recitation of the 
number of mantras should not be reduced after increasing it. Therefore, 
the number should be increased only when one has intense desire and 
sufficient time to increase the number of mantras’ recital in a proper way. 
This is to be done with full faith and concentration before Goddess Gauri. 


aie frat wit stinrcrahe 11 

evan wedi | 

SHCA TT TTP Sh | | 

ary Tee T TeTTTTH | 

war ae & afer aor ATTA! | 
F) PARVATI SWAYAMWAR MANTRA 
This mantra can also be recited along with the above-mentioned Mangala 
Chandika Mantra. This is done in the same manner as in the case of 
previons "Mangala Chandika Mantra" Shodshopchar poojan (16 fac- 
eted worship) is not required but five faced lamp i.e. the Panch Mukhi 


Deepak must remain lighted throughout the worship and recitation of 
Mantra. 


AUBYTTT RA TITS | 
ae wae! wiley rarer | 
we waydydt aig sry arafed 


430 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


ae aaydreareaqe sceretar weet! | 
G) NAMES OF MARS (NAMAVALI] 


By reading various names of Mars as listed below, adversities created 
by Mars get nullified. If one is unable to read various stotras, Kavach 
and mantras of Mars, he or she can easily read various names of Mars 
to eliminate the adversities, problems, tensions, disaster, accidents, 
operation, death and widowhood etc. These names of Mars should be 
read correctly, and with reverene. 


3 ferrerorer FAS H HAPOTETATT TAL 
H FAGRTT TE 0 fers TAB 
0 BIPIBLIONT TA 

H MAE TA HO STAT TAB 


REMEDIES THROUGH MANTRAS 431 


% MOTTANTN TAS % aehrt FAe 

H AQAA FAL aa TAS 

3 fee gry TAs % TRS ARETT FR 
H FEPCTARGTT TA YH BARAT Te 

% seery FAs BY TH 

3 PraTsriTa FAs Fo MRYTRTT FAB 
SST FAG Ho gpeaferemfersiRearea TAS 
8 TRTRIPTTAETM TIE HY THAT ARTAT TASH 
THATS IGA TAB S WPRARTT TAB 

8 TIRGTT FAP % HAASAN TV 
THEI TAB 8 FATAIGMMT TAB 
8 FXRMOPTUST TAT TAB % Rreenraryars FA 


MANTRAS OF ALL NINE PLANETS 


Mantras of the Sun 

1.8 gis yet smieenrt/ 

Viniyog- (fafrart) area sft arrarer squats Waa wae Tear 
aa aererard ae Farrar | 


Rishiyadinyas- (xeearfe-are7) sera Kee Tae fore! art wast 
mH Fa! yee Ta ere | feria 77s watt | 


432 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


Dhyan-( 8477) yerare4eed ay accra | walreanrorrd 
BURT ETT Tor | | 
2. 38 Bf BF ef ae qarer 7 | | 


7000 mantras should be done and argh to the Sun must be given with 
the help of red flowers, red sandal etc. every day. 


3. Vedic Mantra of Sun 

Viniyog- (arn srporrers Rrearqnfre xis Pree 
yar aac gels ae feafrarre | 

Mantra- (7a & af Bf ef ae 36 syifas caps stpwrT Tare at 
arn fresrerayd welsa | ferrets afer wera sar afer serait 
gourd || 3 mae gare ye 3 ae Bt BF ef % yaa we | 

4. Pauranic Mantra (97am Fay 


AMES BIT Ferry | 
awash awdaaest goraiska Rarer || 


Mantras of Moon 
1 3 Sif Of of ae Tene TA | 


11,000 mantras must be recited and argh must be given with white sandal 
and white flower. 


Viniyog- (@Rarn saftera eaara xfts seaftesuae wet saa 
aadiaey ao fafrarr | 


2. Vedic Mantra- (7a) % 217 off Sif ae yitas tae H SHAT GAIT 
GRAHET SALT FED FLSA TED ARTA NAM | SAOT 
GTeyer Garr ferisoe art TAT aPUSe MAT TAT | 9 
we ae ye H ae at Of aT So are TAS | 
3. Pauranic Mantra (GR Fay 

asad eRrerererarraq f 

wiht ort a renfeeqrry | | 


REMEDIES THROUGH MANTRAS 433 
Mantras of Mars 


1. % oF OT BY ae are Te | 


Mantra must be done 11,000 times and paojan is to be done with red 
sandal and red flower. 


2. Vedic Mantra 
Viniyog- (afarn aifadeate rarer ferstrer fee Treat wae HPiy 
daar rear here ae fearrarr | 
Mantra- (7a) 3 &F BT Bf we  wtee ee % aifrtal Ras 
were GRrears say ara tar fart | % eas yee Yeo 3 Be 
al aT ar 3 are ae | 
3. Pauranic Mantra-( 97 Fay 

erupted ferry | 

BN Mate TF ATT TOTRTET | | 
Mantras of Mercury 


1. % af at aT a Zerg Tae | 
Mantra must be recited 9000 times and poojan is to be done with multi 
coloured flowers. 


2.Vedic Mantra 
Viniyog- (fefrarn segereitr Tarr Weare Hie AE was Fer 
aan ger Treat ag fafrari | 
Mantra. (72) % af of af ae tee te seGErarsy GATT 
STE WE ea Fore PAST | HRIRTRAS HARA fereaear 
arn” ded % eae yas ye 9 ae at af af 3 gener TA | 
3.Pauranic Mantra-( 9a Fay 

Ragykrenat sqoratrr ger | 

are arene «FTF Fer Gorareagex | | 
Mantras of Jupiter 
1. % of Gf aT a Tea Te | 


This mantra is done 19,000 times along with the poojan with Kesar, 
sandal and yellow flower. 


434 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


2.Vedic Mantra 


Viniyog- (Arann Jee sir rarer wera He Prey wae Terns 
ae yeaah Ae fearrarr | | 
Mantra- (Fay 3 GT Of Gt ae % whee wae % Fewasstracar 
SHPPUEMNT HAAG | GELETTTTS HATTA ATCT SAT NE 
fay | % eae gas yo % ae Gt Hf af % Jeers TA | 
3. Pauranic Mantra- (We Fay 

aarisa HIRT Ye BRETT | 

gkeyd Beier a var reer | | 
Mantras of Venus 
1. 3 af af a ae yarr 7 | 


Mantra must be recited 16000 times and poojan must be done with white 
flower and white sandal. 


2.Vedic Mantra 


Viniyog- (Fara He WRYET Sh TART SPT RTA AT HOTS ET 
wit eae yer tan yds ae ferrari: | 
Mantra- (72 3 a7 of af ae % wifes mae KH ae IRA wT 
geno eahvaq aera ae garda | xara aeafareaferas 
JOTRISTA OMT TTY | 3 tae Yas yo Ho ae at EF ar 
H BT Ae | 
3. Panranic Mantra-( Wore TA) 

fread Far RT TER | 

adoraqarn wre corre || 
Mantras of Saturn 
1. % Of of OF ae ora Te 
2. 3% of GF GT ae ora a | 


Any one of the above mantra may be done 23,000 times along with the 
poojan of Saturn with blue flowers and sandal but during poojan, there 
must continuously be lighted a ‘Deepak’ filled with mustard oil. 


REMEDIES THROUGH MANTRAS 435 


Viniyog- fafa seiedihtta raed werssreado safye reat wae 
On aaa sree be a fafrarre | 


2. Vedic Mantra- (Fay 9 af Gf Gf a % wae ae % oe 
adrfrears ana warg tere | of arPre‘ag 7 | 3 wae yer 
ye 3 ae GY GT aT % oriwra TA | 
3. Pauranic Mantra-( 9Rae TH 

3 Tears Page BAPTA | 

Srey F TU LARA! | 


Mantra of Rahu 


1. 8 WT xT aT ae Ted TA | 
This mantra must be recited 18,000 times and in night poojan of Rahu 
dev must be done along with the blue coloured flower and sandal. 


2. Vedic Mantra 

Viniyog-(faharn wariisaa str rarer araea cafes neat wae 
Wecadn wEdiae ae fakraris | 

Mantra- (Fay 34 v7 of ot ue S wears cae 3 Hear aaa aryagdt 


wage wa | warifrsaga | % wae yeas ye 3 ae aT Hf aT 
Wer TA | 
3. Pauranic Mantra- (GR Fay 


% aeleret verde weedy | 
Riearriryd JF ug Trae | | 
Mantras of Ketu 
1. 0% OF OT WF aw sad Ae |! 


Mantra must be recited 17000 times and poojan must be done with ash 
coloured flower and sandal. 


2.Vedic Mantra 
Viniyog «Rah by pratt TART Tey Ue WAT Tas 


436 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


aan tame adie ae farrare | 
Mantra (ay 96 OF Of Of ae yeas ee % a Qrartaade Firvat 
Sood | qyoeacraene | 3 we yar yo 3 ae WG oF % 
ade TA | 
3. Pauranic Mantra- (de Fay 

8 TMLYOAETT ARATE RAD | 

Ue teri IR FT hy TOTRTEL | | 


bd 


o, Me Me om 
ye y “~ ~~ 


o, 
“~ 
K? 
“e 


met aewt q add, ata: wt est wer / 
quara ut vada, deren a wererst 73 


The feet, which follow the virtuous path, do well and help the 
helpless persons, are worth praising. 


CHAPTER 5.4 


REMEDIES THROUGH 
STOTRAS 


given. These are very effective in preventing the maladies caused due 

o the presence of Kuja dosha in the birth chart. A large number of 
persons have been benefited by reciting the suitable Mantra given by 
us. 

Our sages have also suggested many stotras also, which are as 
effective and useful. We are hereunder giving some of the most 
important, most useful and appropriate stotras, which by preventing the 
maladies caused due to Kuja dosha bring happiness in the life of the 
native. The girls whose marriage are delayed are married, curse of 
widowhood is prevented and peace, prosperity and progress prevail in 
their life. As it was mentioned in the case of mantras, or for that matter 
with any remedial measure, these remedial stotras should be recited 
properly with correct pronounciation, absolute faith, dedication and 
Satwik living, with honesty and loyalty towards husband. 

Many of theses stotras are not commonly known or given in the 
published books on the subject. These rare stotras, if recited with full 
dedication and following all the precautions, bless the native with 
astonishing results. 'Saubhagyastotar shatnaam Stotra’ is one such rarely 
known stotra, which has given the natives, who were strong Mangli, 
alround happiness and also provided longevity to the marital life, thus 
preventing the widowhood. The only condition is that the proper mantra 
or stotra be selected and then followed by the native with sincerity, faith 
and dedication. 


I n the previous chapter some very useful and important Mantras were 


438 AN INSIGHT INIO KUJA DOSHA 


1. Mangal Chandika Stotra 


One of the most powerful prayers is Mangal Chandika Stotra, addressed 
to Goddess Chandika, an incarnation of Parvati. 
In our sacred Puranas, an account goes thus: 


Lord Narayana speaks to Narada: Now listen to the sacred story of 
Mangal Chandika, which story as agreeable to the Vedas, is the dearest 
even to those scholars who know of everything. The term 'Chandi' 
denotes 'Dakshaa’ (or the all-skillful deity). 'Mangal' means auspicious. 
She is capable of causing any and every auspicious event. The term 
‘Chandi' further denotes ‘Durga’ while the term 'Mangala' denotes the 
planet Mars, the son of earth. Since the goddess is dear to Mars or Kuja, 
she also is known as Mangala Chandika. She appears before her devotees 
as Mercy Personified and is the pet goddess of females. Once upon a 
time Lord Shankara also obtained Her blessings before killing the fierce 
demon called Tripura. 


Narrating the above account, Lord Vishnu reveals the following secret 
and the most auspicious Mantra, which should not be passed on to 
hypocrites or to people who do not have any reverence to it: 


Mangala Chandika Stotra with Mantra and Dhyana: 


agencaalsd xwocrafvsoratrzg | 


b ey ste adie audyot @fa aoaalse | 
C @ wee raéetd arletdenat way: 1st 
qo: welaweda saat adwrae: | 
eragsataa aoafafgs(doorray 811211 
aatukesiag ura a fay: aderara: |} 

eet a gtat «aerel Aalad uduerayy 113/11 
editx niseranfar ereacgeeaaiaqaray 
udeiwyigar a waar! nate 11411 
edaamr@aritar acceler | 
afeepateperenrat «= xeotapaurayfaret 1 1511 
fwardiay wallet afeawrneayfiay | 
fasatst -qeodl aed ereerqaferarretat 1 1611 
PrarRiTsaren yalatcecalaary =} 
wigity amity a ader: adurierqii7is 
aura =ul’ waew aw att 181i 


REMEDIES THROUGH STOTRAS 


eared eqrafiela caaat yarat wat | 


waa: uecrscal ta quera erme: 119711 


eet IJara- 
wa val CO otentacfa « Aacafhee 


ae fara uel av aoa@erRe 1/1011 


ev aaaca a et aoa atue 1 


eat wotercat a eat aorerafos@ 611111 


wa aaIae a adaotaaase | 


wa noe ef adur notated 1112171 


yu aatart a xaeaiatbeead 


Gor Aves Aopaver Uday 111311 


aratreqela aac a Aad | 
auravareae aAtaraoreratrfer 111451 
ar a waar we a udev | 
ulatraar’t a yet a Hoe 111511 


watmada ewsspea equ Arerafsory 


ufaatnaart aga wear wa: Pra: 11161! 


@area woeeatt au: gutta waattea: 


avin: siduseqcr stdq agers 11171) 


Om Hreem Sreem Kleem Servapoojye Devi Mangala Chandike, 
Aaim kroom phat svaaheityevam chaapyekavirnshakshro Manuh.]. 


Poojyeh Kalpataruschaiva bhaktanaam sarva kaamadah, 
Dashlakshajpenaiva mantra siddhibhavenrunaam.2. 
Manttrasiddhirbhavedyasya sa Vishnuh sarva kaamadah. 


Dhyaanam cha srooyataam Brahman Vedoktam Sarvasammatam 3. 
Deveem Shodasa Varhsayaam Sasvath susthirha yauvanaatm 
Sarva roopa gunadhyaam cha komalaangeem manoharaam.4. 


Shvet champaka Varnaabhaam chandra koti samaprabhaam. 


439 


Vahni sudhdhaamsukaadhaanam ratna bhooshana bhooshitaam.5. 


Vibhrateem abereebhaaram mallika maalya bhooshitam. 


Vimboshteem sudanteem sudhdhaam saratpadmanibhaanaam. 6. 


Ishaddhasya prasannaansyam suneelotpala lochanaam. 


Jagadhdhatreem cha daatreem cha sarvebhyah sarvasampadaam.7. 


samsaara saagare ghore pota roopaam varaam bhaje.8. 
Devyaascha dhyaanamityevam stavanam shrooyataam mune 
Prayatah sankata grasto yena tushtaava shankarah.9. 


440 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


Shankara uvacha. 

Raksh raksh Jaganmatardevi manga] chandike 

Haarike vipadaam rashau harsh mangal Kaarike.10. 

Harsh mangaldakshe cha harsh mangal daayike 

. Shubhe mangaldakshe cha shubhe mangalchandike.11. 
Mangal mangalarhe cha sarvamangalmangale 

Sada mangalde devi sarvehaam magalalaye. 12. 

Poojyaa Mangalavare cha Mangalaabheeshta Daivate. 
Poojye mangabhoopasya Manuvamsasya Santatam. 13. 
Mangaladhishtaatru devi Mangalaanam cha mangale. 
Samsaara Mangalaadhaare Moksha mangala daayini.14. 
Saare cha mangalaaahaare paare cha sarva karmanaam.15. 
Prati Mangala Vaare cha Poojye cha Mangalaprade. 
Stotrenaanena Sambhuscha stutva Mangala Chandikaam. 
Prati Mangala vaare cha poojam krutva gatah shivah.16. 
Devyaascha Mangala stotram yah srunoti samaahitah. 
Tanmangalam bhavechachasvanna bhavet tadarnangalam.17. 


Meaning: (Lord Narayana proceeds): ‘The principal Mantra containing 
21 letters - Om Hreem Sreem Kleem Sarva Poojye Devi Mangala 
Chandike, aim kroom phat svaaha - as given by Manu (the progenitor 
of human beings), when worshipped well, and again and again, is capable 
of fulfilling all of one's desires like the divine Boon-giving Tree. Reciting 
the same for ten lakh (10,00000) times can attain this Mantra's Siddhi. 
O Brahmin (meaning Narada), listen to me with attention. This widely 
acceptable prayer (Dhyaana, now being told) is honoured even by the 
Vedas. Goddess Mangala Chandika, whose youth is unchangeable, 
always looks like a sixteen-year old damsel. Endowed with wholesome 
beauty and virtues, she is soft-bodied and heart robbing. Her complexion 
is akin to that of white Champaka flower, and her charming radiance 
is equal to that of one crore Moons. She adores jasmines embracing 
her hair. Her lips are reddish, resembling the reddishness of a Bimba 
fruit (a red-gourd). She has a row of attractive teeth. Her face resembles 
the brilliant lotus of the spring season and adores a_ robbing 
smile. Both her eyes resemble the blossoming blue lotuses. She fulfils 
all the desires of everyone (who prostrates before her) and is a boat to 
cross the ocean of mundane journey and is the Excellent One. I (that 
is Lord Vishnu) always sing her glory. O sage, that was the Mantra to 
please Mangal Chandika. Now listen to her Stotra or praises (as told by 
Lord Shiva). 


REMEDIES THROUGH S7o7kas 441 


Stotra: "Lord Shiva says: O Mangal Chandike, the Mother of the 
Universe, you are the destroyer of all the dangers, and are ever ready 
to bestow auspiciousness. Protect me, protect me. The joyous Mangala 
Chandike, you distribute happiness and auspiciousness with open (or 
free) hands. You are the all-auspicious, Subha Mangal Chandika and the 
auspiciousness of all other auspiciousnesses. O Devi, your nature is to 
bestow auspiciousness to virtuous people. You are the abode of auspi- 
ciousness for one and all. Devi, you are the favorite deity of the planet 
Mangal (or Kuja). You should be (unfailingly) worshipped on Tuesdays 
(as on other days). You are the honorable deity of Mangal, a king of 
Manu dynasty. O presiding deity of auspiciousness, you are auspicious 
even for the auspiciousness. All the auspiciousness of the Universe takes 
shelter in you. You are the bestower of auspiciousness containing 
Emancipation. O Devi, giver of auspiciousness, on being worshipped on 
Tuesdays, you are the essence of the Universe and are beyond all Karmas 
or deeds." 

Lord Narayana further says: "Thus Mangala Chandika has been first 
worshipped by “Lord Shiva on all Tuesdays, so also by Mars. One who 
recites or listens to this Stotra will never receive any inauspiciousness. 
He wilt beget auspicious results." 

When a male or a female recites the above Mantra and Stotra 
regularly and with devotion, he/she will have no obstacles in his/her life, 
will beget married early and will lead a happy life. The worship should 
be commenced on a Tuesday and kept up continuously. 

This is particularly extremely favourable for those natives 
(whether males or females) having Kuja dosha of any magnitude. 
Such evils of Mars will completely vanish, marriage will take place 
and matrimonial life will be fully auspicious in every respect. Also 
those without, Kuja dosha, will also stand to gain timely marriage 
and related happiness. 

Those who are likely to be affected by transiting Mars can resort 
to recitation of this Mangal Chandika Stotra (or the entire story). 
Those who are subjected to other kinds of blemishes by an afflicted 
Mars at birth, (like disease, litigation etc.) can also undertake 
reciting this Mangal Chandika Stotra regularly. 


2. MANGAL STOTRA (1) 


This stotra is very useful which should be done by male and female alike 
who are passing through the adverse vibrations of Mars. After 
shodshopchar poojan of Mangal Graha i. e. planet Mars, proper sankalp 


442 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


for reciting Mangal Stotra should be taken as mentioned earlier. There- 
after, take a small amount of water m the cup of palm of hand and drop 
it on ground after reading the viniyoga. Thereafter, read Mangal stotra 
correctly with concentration and absolute faith in the amazing and 
astonishing power of Mangal Dev. 


WT ANAL 
TTR feraanrred ere | safPrererea | ett 
owe apres ae feFrarr | 
TREE Mery eA ETE ATE | 
HART TH AP Tera FATES | | 
Mea seca WBAPTATNATS | 
FLT TR BAT GAEL BoE | | 
APTI CRRA CHITA | 
ene wnerofeer aefesarareayeres | | 
THAT, BABVSHH WETTER | 
TAHA APR Fe TERIA A | | 
MOT re a arerpre afer 7 fearroate | 
ert aTeiiter Feged Reret eer FARATT | | 
TOM NAH JA TA AT GTA | 
MSTA IPT THT TETOTHS | | 
wat qoute GisTed TRI TEE FIT! | 
Se REG IY HINA FLAT | 
3. MANGAL STOTRA (2) 


Same results will be derived by the Sadhak as mentioned above. 
However, different stotras have been written by different sages and their 
Devta and Rishis may be different. One should select the stotra on the 
basis of his or her birth chart. 


Tora azn erga ger yeourraysraa | 
Wed Hyd Wt waver Hay ae YARNS war | | 
seg sal ani sqrhaent WyTGAg{ay | 
THALARTAZARMS GAG As TRAST war | 
TH CEfifers ARE JOA ME ATH AA TATE | 
wae saat gifts Bry ae OTA TET | 


REMEDIES THROUGH S707R4S 443 


TyHihrP yee ARG TRIM aT ARTS artery | 
amit ericwa wt miherne Belg ae yorrareer wa | 
TH ore each a ere Tira eretiog Fefcroeterrorr | 
Rul TA. TATRT ERT Bele ae YoRARS TAT | | 
Ty eT ferar yA aCe Marae aaah 7 TAT | 
a PLAT TSN TA Tel Bey Ae YORTAIRST TAT | 
GT Te Tere wars kere aaet Teves | 
aa Tren tree Hr ae ORAS war | 
sie zal Tarr Are TEA THT ATT | 
rye Yen sara Hel We VARS wer | 
TOBY BS A PTY THAT T TIPE TT | 
erafeleraea aearer afed area Beary wares fe aT! | 
4. MANGAL STOTRA (3) 


We have written about two Mangal stotras as above. Kashyap Rishi has 
written both of these stotras. This stotra has been written by Garg Rishi. 
This is very prominent and useful Mangala stotra and works tremen- 
dously where all other Mangal stotra do not fulfill the desire, this Mangal 
stotra should be read with absolute faith and confidence. 


FT AAA 

fafrenrr seq of dpreaaea hates Feit ear FST 
ae KOTTE Ae fara | 

eT CHIP Cae A ALA PTA Wares | 
RIGA MATT Yet 

wel RAT gras Fonds | | 

wir TT eAgavT HE erTTES | 
PRerereratt TETETTS ABT ATLAS 

one Mea T ATTA PUKE | 

erin Bar apa ytrar yPriere | | 

HINGE POAT TRTIERRE | 
Tesmas ect 7 wear Bees | | 

call Borris Free ae srzar Tea | 

OT FT ATA RA re TVeTeTOTAS | | 


HUATTAY IT AS FT 
Reorg 77 fea afae areas | | 


5. ANGARAK STOTRA 


Angarak stotra is very famous and one of the most useful Vedic stotras 
of Mars. This can be read in addition to mantras of Mars where the 
adversity and malefic results of Mars are very acutely pronounced. The 
women who are suffering from Kuja dosha resulting into miserable 
married life, destruction and disaster, are advised to recite Angarak stotra 
at least once every day. This stotra may be recited 7, 14 or 21 times 
depending upon the adversity caused by Mars in the birth chart of the 


native. However, this is harmless in all respects. 


VINIYOGA 
wears aineeiarel fersatrea ufis afta 


Taree aw?idkassMararr | 


REMEDIES THROUGH S7o7Ras 
STOTRA 


HRS MTR RATT ER TEAS | 
BUT TTA HPT TETHTaA TATE | 
HUB ake PIBEPTITAS | 
FRTAT TRE BMA ITT Hae | 
PTT IA THTLAT THATS | 
Med rarauton aelraterereree | 
CHILE BIBS TENTHS | 
WIGAUNY GPRA Ae Ted WAT Te | 
mor Te fe etapa aikee a ferroate 
ered areal Ferged Pere eer FaAAry | 
TONNAGE JF THT AST AIA | 
MSAaaY APRA TT TETOTPS | 
wat Foal GST A TR WEBAT FC! | 


6. RINMOCHAN MANGAL STOTRA 


445 


Rinmochan Mangal Stotra is useful for getting rid of debts and loans. 
Many times, placement of Mars in 12", 24 or 8" house may give rise 
to debts and as a result of which the native may have to lead a painful 
married life and suffer poverty, misunderstandings and differences. One 
may even commit suicide, if one is suffering from the problems of heavy 
loans and he is not able to pay the same in spite of his best efforts. 
Therefore, he must read Rinmochan Mangal Stotra which will bless the 
subject with prosperity, property, wealth, happiness and success in 


various aspects of life. 

RON TT TT AAT 
TTA QAGALT HOST eT TE | 
Rerereat weresreae welertareres | | 
MBA RATT ATTN BITRE | 
arias Har arn yfear yPriea | | 
HIRA Ade TRVTTERES | 
Tess eat aT wear Gergqes | | 
Gallt Boriribt Pra ae Hea Te | 


446 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


MOT FT TT TT rt ohrerrarezare | | 
eon werd fereeaia ATA | 
BIN Meare T ATT TOTS | | 
MATIN ARAL Toes Far THe | 
7 Tar siprar Ger eawaste very Ferfery | | 
HIRE FH WET FH TTL FH TTT | 
car THY Harorrzorayy Ferarere | | 
HORM GRAF F ASA MITA | 
WY FIT ATT THAT TT LT | | 
MATE H FRET H APTTAARTATTT | 
yeer wanker qrarey wcer weber ereeronrey | | 
faRfea sre froear TFENNM FJ BT Be | 
a7 ef webeeert Tera Hera | | 
yard ete ert afe carafer sreor Tare | 
HOMRAAGRAT SIXT FT EAT | | 
ofyateots orm: Rie 7 RTTAT | 
weet Prerarcnte arr errer Zar | / 

7. CHANDRA MANGAL STOTRA 

(For prevention of Chandra Mangali dosha) 


This Chandra Mangal stotra may be recited by the women who are 
mangli as reckoned from Moon. This would eliminate the possibility of 
matrimonial disharmony and problems regarding children, prosperity, 
wealth etc. 


TRATRAAT 
was aeanrys §fearrrsata MANTA LAP Ta eA 
ARTIS JUPAS | 
Tea =| ae SINT HT RE Pas HTS APT 
apreorneraes = Ball 8eT FIT I! 
8. BHOM MANGAL STOTRA 


This ‘Bhom stotra’ should be recited by the women who are suffering 
from various problems of married life, ill health, lack of happiness and 


REMEDIES THROUGH STOTRAS 447 


prosperity. Though various mangal stotras have been given which are 
very useful and tested by us and various acharya of astrology, this is a 
small mangal stotra of four lines, which may be read or recited by those 
who can not read long mangal stotra in Sanskrit. This stotra is also very 
useful for the prevention of all problems caused by Mars due to its 
adverse placement in the birth chart in one or the other way. 


amaronieR Rearor waetraerseny Tare TPT 
qPae AIA TREAS Be Soh Beas! 


WSRIAGAIEET AQIS BTL Fact 
wraraeenedas  ferferaras Bake Aer PRT | 


9. BRAMHA KRIT SARVA MANGAL STOTRA 


(For prevention of Kuja Dosha and happy and 
auspicious married life) 


On completion of the narration by Lord Narayana, sage Narada asks him: 
“O Lord, you have narrated to. me the method of performing the Vrata 
with its effects and the wonderful Stotra of Durga (as sung by Lord 
Brahma and known as Sarva Mangal Stotra).. Now I desire to hear of 
the story of this auspicious Gauri Vrata - who did it first and which noble 
soul spread it on the mortal land?" 


TREAT AAS TAAT | 
5 TH GT | 


TSTATT 
gt rears arr arerafer warty | 
me HTT ae THT TTT | | 
sermonretaan zare Waitetas | 
gar? feeraronefarret sear | | 
Vel TAIT T2T WTETATATEE | 
qegeraarnaars Wetted | | 
Baran wear wa Tara FRare | 
an ant ate ofréRor waif | | 
ferafererrereat STE FMT. | 
at router ar freer ar gut aReiffar | | 


448 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


ZU SPATS SRY ATA TES | 

at rare ge ae gegut vera | | 
T2T BUNATT SHRKPCATES | 
TEM ATH LAT ATR AFATTES | | 
Sasararpeaar frat rr Tei ar | 
Rrerabrttrdt Rrar ar veitefar | | 
Porat fe arerrarreaar agar | 
caret Pratorarstt ar ar rar aRetefar | | 
HIG ETM BEAD AGATE | 
qearryey wee arse WRepttetar | | 
TARTTAH ATT ATT WT TATAES | 
at orca ar were ar area aReifefar | | 
Weer Menara aeT WTAE | 

at areata ar Fra ar ara aReéitctar | | 
ARTI TIA PT FOI eT TAA | 
AGT TRL ORCA TI ARTO STAT | | 
Frporer ot Frerer arrest aaa | : 
wer Frear Frfor ar zifetar ar ware | | 
THA BNA TH BMPR STATES | 
ore eater a fret ar area WReeifetaT | | 
TATTATALT AYP LTLM ATES | 
HIBRY AIGTIRAEAT AAT TAT | | 
WTEHAE AR WTETTTT | 
ARITA FET TET APTI | | 
Te aca Peaea aya area Tee | 
WYRM STA TANT STE | | 
MANTA 8 TRA Rll TAT HT E | 


Meaning: O mother Durga, Sivaa ( Savaa - the spouse of Lord Siva), 
the fearless, the illusion, Narayani (a part of Narayana), Sanaatani (the 
Eternal, one who is beyond Gunas), the success giver, grant me 
auspiciousness, the all auspicious mother, my obeisance to you. In dugaa- 
Durga - "Da" d stands as an appellation of destroyer of demons; "U"] 
stands as a synonym of destroyer of obstacles which meaning is 


REMEDIES THROUGH STOTRAS 449 


acceptable to the Vedas. The destroyer of diseases is implied by "Ra 1" 
while "Ga - ga" denotes destroyer of sins. "a - Aa" stands for destroyer 
of fear and foes. (Thus you are the "destroyer" of all these evils). Durga 
by mere recitation of whose name, demons are destroyed, is said to be 
the energy of Lord Vishnu This has been stated by none other than Sri 
Hari himself. The term “Durg - duga-” (without a long vowel at the end) 
denotes "danger" while "Aa Aa : denotes destroyer (duga- + Aa = dugaa- 
). Since she destroys dangers, she is known as Durgaa. Durgamaasura, 
the kind of demons is also denoted by the term "Durg —duga-" while 
"Aa - Aa" means destroyer. Hence she is known as Durga, the destroyer 
of Durgamaasura. In the term "Sivaa - iSavaa", the character "Sa" 
denotes auspiciousness, "[" denotes the best and "vaa" is for a giver. 
Thus Durga is a heap of auspiciousness and a giver of the best of the 
articles. And that is why. she is known as "Sivaa". The meaning of 
“abhaya- ABaya" is destroying fear (i.e. fearlessness) and "Aa- Aa" 
means giver. Hence she is known as "Abhayaa - ABaya”. In the term 
"Maayaa - maayaa™, "Ma - maa” denotes the kingdom and "Yaa - yaa, 
the obtainer of a kingdom. Again in “Maayaa - maayaa", Maa- maa 
denotes emancipation and Yaa - yaa the obtainer. Thus Maaya means 
one who will obtain emancipation by worship of the mother. This 
goddess dwells in the body of Lord Narayana and is akin to him in 
radiance, hence she is revered as "Narayani" . "Sanaatana - sanaatna" 
denotes one who is ever lasting and beyond Gunas. "Jaya - jaya" means 
success. "Aa- Aa" denotes the giver. So she is known a Jayaa(jayaa), 
the success giver. "Sarva Mangala" denotes wholesome wealth. "Aa - 
Aa" is giver. So she is the giver of wholesome wealth or anspiciousness. 
These eight names of the Mother are full of quintessence and this Stotra 
contains the meanings of such names. Lord Narayana taught these to 
Lord Brahma seated on a Lotus emanating from the navel of Lord 
Vishnu. After the discourse, Lord Narayana went into sleep taking shelter 
in Yoga Nidra (Lord Vishnu's sleep at the end of a Yuga ; Meditational 
sleep. Lord Vishnu's sleep personified and said to be a form of Goddess 
Durga) when the two demons, Madhu and Kaitabha, struck the scene 
to extinguish Lord Brahma. Then Brahma praised Mother Durga with 
these names. 


10. JANAKI KRIT PARVATI STOTRA 
(For happy and early marriage) 


Many times, marriage of girls gets appreciably delayed or denied due 
to adverse placement of planets including Mars. Those girls would be 


450 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


married decently, happily and would enjoy high degree of conjugal bliss 
if they would read "Janaki Krit Parvati Stotra". This stotra has been 
written by "Mata Janaki" as a prayer of Mata Parvati. They will be 
blessed with "Akhand Saubhagya" who will read it regularly. It is best 
to read the stotra during the Vrata of Mata Gauri after performing proper 
shodshopchar poojan of Gauri. 


AAAIEA WEARTAL 
HITEZAT 

SREY wear ererfene Torrey | 
Heal ag a Oe ate FASE A | / 
gherererdnaay gtteRarerarey | 
GRIT ATAATT RAST TFISET T | 
BTR oes WaT RITT | 
aren Tere IE ale THIS ct i} 


wralfirey ack safgpatrnPre | ; 
aes wear THT RIT | | 
TREY F ET TATA | 

AAI FT RTH AREY TST T | | 
QTE sar orar rear rar eles AAT | 
CARAT Hes Vat ARTA TASeT FT | | 
AAPM GREGRE MAT AT EAS | 
CARAT Bes Fat AST TASET FT | | 
FERIA FT ANA AGTTS | 
MAT AD FT HETTD TASTY TF 1 | 

fret srerearareagen arareerrary | 

aRy ard FT arava afe af TAISe FT | / 
aAUTTT as eye wafeaeae rarq | 
Tat Tea wen aT Tabet Be FT | | 
SE IAGE Yaa WF WT VIR | 
RF RISTO ART BOAT | | 


REMEDIES THROUGH STOTRAS 451 


Meaning: Janaki said (addressing Parvati): "You are the form of Sakti. 
You are the substratum of the entire Universe. Yon are the ocean of all 
virtnes and are the enjoyer of happiness of perpetual association with 
Lord Siva. Obeisance unto thee! Give me the best of the husbands. 
Creation, stability and destruction are your forms. You are the form of 
the seeds of the seed of creation, stability and destruction. Obeisance 
unto thee! You are the knower of the secrets of (the need of) a husband. 
O Gauri. a devotee of husband, the affectionate to husband, give me 
husband. Obeisance to yon! You are the auspicious form of all auspi- 
ciousness. You are endowed with the wealth of all kinds of anspicions- 
ness. Yon are dear to all, the form of seed of all, the destroyer of all 
inauspiciousness, the ruler of all and the mother of all. O beloved of 
Sankara, obeisance to you. O form of Paramaatma, the everlasting, 
Sanaatani (the Eternal, or beyond Gunas) yon are endowed with form 
and are also formless, the form ofall, obeisance unto thee. Hunger, thirst, 
desire, kindness, sleep, indolence, memory and forgiving disposition - 
these are all your rays. O Narayani, bashfulness, intelligence, happiness, 
energy, peace, wealth and increase - all these are also your rays. O the 
form of all, obeisance unto thee. Both Visible and Invisible are your 
forms. You are the giver of the seed and fruit to those visible and 
invisible. None can describe yon. 0 great illusion, obeisance unto thee. 
O sponse of Siva (or O giver of anspicionsness) yon are endowed with 
the wealth of fortunes emanating from Lord Siva. O Devi, only Sri Hari 
is my most beloved, and only He is my fortune. Please give him unto 
me. Obeisance unto thee. 


Those women who after performing Ganri Vrata, read this stotra of 
Parvati (as told by Janaki) and bow before the Mother will obtain one 
like Lord Hari as their husband. They will enjoy happiness with their 
husband in this world and after quitting this world, aboard the divine 
air-borne vehicle (Pushpaka Vimaana) and reach the abode of Lord Sri 
Krishna. 

This is the end of Gauri Vrata as told by Lord Narayana. The 
recitation of the praises showered by Sita on Parvati as a concluding part 
of the Vow is thus essential. Every aspirant will recite it without fail in 
order that results in full are obtained without delay. 


11. RADHAKRIT SHREE KRISHNA STOTRA 
(For happy and intact marriage) 


This is highly useful stotra for all aspects of married life. A girl who 
is unmarried even after following varions remedial measnres, will 


452 AN INSIGHT INTO KuJa DOSHA 


definitely be blessed with decent husband and happy married life, should 
she read Radhika Shree Krishna Stotra thrice every day. Divorce and 
miseries of married life can also be ruled out by regular use of this stotra. 
The importance of this stotra has been explained hereunder. 

"Sarasvathi, Lakshmi, Ganga, Durga, Veda Mata Savitri ("Sruti 
prasooh" = the progenitor of the Vedas) have all attained worshippability 
by offering prayers at your feet. Such feet, I adore my lord again and 
again. I bow down before that Lord even by mere tonch of whose 
servants (i.e. devotees) and penance the (already) sacred shrines become 
purified (or become more sacred)". 

Whoever reads this stotra three times a day during three junctions, 
he becomes the servant of Lord Hari and attains the same good luck as 
Radha did. 

If one who is in danger recites this story with full devotion, then 
one will immediately attain wealth (of happiness and lucre). One will 
recover even such articles that have been lost or stolen long ago. His 
kinsfolk will progress and he will obtain mental happiness. 

If a worried person recites this (regularly), he will be relieved. 

Differences with husband, progeny and friends will be resolved by 
reciting this stotra for a mouth and the Lord will appear before the 
devotee. ° 

If an unmarried girl listens to this account (or she herself reads this 
account) for one full year, she will beget a husband who is as charming 
and as virtuons as Lord Krishna. 

So conclndes Lord Narayana in his discourse to Brahma Rishi 
Narada. 

The aspirant, whether a female or a male, reading this part of Vrata, 
as narrated by Lord Narayana will have all these desires fulfilled 
including getting an auspicious marriage. There are other benefits of 
reciting this stotra addressed to Lord Krishna as reflected in the above 
translation. This being one of the most important ancient vows, | have 
fully explained all the details not bothering for space. 


THETA FELT GTOTETRTT | 
edhe arron ade Tarsaqu | / 
THEM MUCM ToMrerrasers | 

Tata ware Freare TaSeit | / 
MATA GTT TEATS | 


PIMAETT OTT BOT PASAT T | | 


REMEDIES THROUGH STOTRAS 453 


RIAA TAT TRA RIE | 

TRAST TAT TAAA THAT TF | | 

TIRATHA TAT TAG | 

TORT TTR YLAT THSAT TF | | 

oiorriearrsiy Rres Preraere | 

ARAIRARATIT AAET TUS TF | | 

aehrdaha a ag Peters | 

qeereay read welder TSA T | | 

HE area weg TH yerrge | 

RAVAN AAT YR Te TAY TAS | | 

LT eT Tear ear 7 Peer | 

oferarifor = cferffor eH spre THe | | 

sera TR a sara Tae ferTEx | 

HAS TOT ABO RT RATT At | | 

Tepe Be RNA APA ae Tere | 

eRake a areata rearerrit gt | | 

ferret a3 Terra wes TakeraTezar: | 

FRBIVIACA ET TS aT TAT | | 

TYTRAAAT TIT WAT TT | 

ferarren Texan OT freaferacgarg | | 

oeraey grees Perse a aHe | 

are Tea ae Taare Aeet TL || 

ARNG RAT TF YT AS | 

REMIT BIA TIA TH FTI | | 
Meaning : "0 Lord of heavens, the lord of Gopika Kanyas, My lord, 
the Beloved of my life force, the kinsfolk of the poor, the lord of the 
poor, the lord of the cowherds, the lord of the herds of cows, the improver 
of Yasoda's happiness, the progeny of Nanda, one who delights in the 
Good, one who is ever happy, my obeisance to you. 

"0 Govinda, the destroyer of the ire of Lord Indra, you have 

destroyed even the pride of lord Brahma. O Slayer of Kaaliya (the fierce 


seven hooded Cobra in Yamuna), the lord of my life, Sri Krishna, my 
obeisance to you. 


"You are the lord of Siva and Anantha (the endless Vishnu) and also 


454 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


the lord of Brahma and Brahmanas. You are Paraatpara - beyond even 
the age of Brahma (which is said to be one thousand crores of human 
years), (or you are beyond the foreseeable future), you are Brahma, the 
knower of Brahma and the Beeja of Brahma. My obeisance unto thee. 

"You are the seed of the movable and immovable universe. You are 
beyond Gunas (Satva etc.), you are synonym of Gunas, you are the seed 
of Gunas, you are the substratum of Gunas, and you are the lord of 
Gunas. My obeisance unto thee. 


"My lord, you are the possessor of Anima and such other Siddhis 
or Attainments (which are eight in number, viz. Mahima, Garima etc.) 
and you are the attainment of even those (eight) attainments. O Sage, 
you are yourself Penance. You are the seed of Penance. Whatever 
definable and indefinable articles exist, all this is your form. You are 
the seed of the said two ie. Definable and Indefinable. My lord having 
the form of the seed of all, obeisance unto thee. 


I2. EKDANTA SHARANAGATI STOTRA 
(For all kinds of conjugal happiness, for proper and easy solution 
of matrimonial disharmony, and for other problems of life) 


CHET ION THAT | | 


aaa ays | 

HEIST AEM ATATUTT NS EAT | 
HAUTE AAAI THE OT TAPAS | | 
APART TOTTI Ta Te ET TET | 

Be Terra at wah Tag MOTTA | | 
wifey ale ahr a rarersee fers | 
Fa FRITTERS TIBET ORT TATE | | 
eaifererarers Fercrrergent qererarey Ferferereearesaryt | 
welt ax aay aM at arama oreo TAPAS I | 
wrdlechetor wretyerearnrerean ahead a freer | 
TOE ARAGAATT TIBET ROT Ta | | 
TAPTAERADET YOLAT FT TOMAR | 
HATTA ATT TARE ORO TAPAS | | 
aan Recast Goleraist tad Ae at | 
TUTST THIARS TAbaT OT TAPAS | | 


REMEDIES THROUGH STOTRAS 455 


aaa farsa wren Txt fesrerrel area ferareaq | 
HIRE T TARY THI SOT THE | | 
TART TRIBT WS TIA yer ATeHAIT | 
GOUT ATH TIBET ORO TATA | | 
aaa warot aren rerer aftreey ferfererqt az | 
TeHOT PIM FASE THAT eT TAIZ | | 
CETSTA TI TAT ECT TEM YTS ATEN | 
FARIA THT THe COT TAPE | | 
aaa arrcorn fered feratfeat BIA BAT | 
aye RT a aeReET TIBET ORT TAPAS | | 
wed yermplranarciade at aT fereabey Fray | 
PereTe TATA OTA CaRTAHET ROT TAPAS | | 
eraser wit weve we Teororeqy fern a F | 
wad PIRRAERATRTIhe aT ORO TAPE | | 
erste Bea fren aTarsreay Were Vepferoy | 
CITA BETH BUSHY THEA MOT TAP | | 
AETIM YPAATSA AY AeTSATTS TaereT Fee | 
IAAL BAe CYARTAHET ROT TATA | | 
yarn carro fefeeenaaker af atpeabe rere | 
wets Servos Rerr t aTaapeat oo TaAA | | 
AETHAT RTE Ff AETSIAT AVEVELAT BIAS | 
TRTAA BITTOSAAT FT TABET OO TAPS | | 
gers afer Frater areetarsrenP rane | 
FATT AAT FT TAHET OUT TATE | | 
ret aerate ware Fereaiter | 
HITE Ble Nel ATT ORT TATE | | 
GUPTA ARTETA Tae ae RTT TT eA | 
HAS TNA GARIN SEY TIBET MOT TAPAS | | 


ahr ft FATALITY THe OTT NAL TOF 


Translation: The sages addressing Lord Ganesa (the Single Tusked 
Deity) praise him thus. 


456 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


"We seek shelter in Lord Ganesa who possesses a virtuous nature, 
who is the source of beginning of everything, who is bereft of illusion, 
who is indicative of the inconceivable thought of "I am that Supreme 
Being:, who is bereft of beginning, middle and end, and who is the 
symbol of Oneness. 

"We seek shelter in Lord Ganesa who is the endless Soul, who is 
the lord of Ganas (groups of gods’ armies), who is bereft of "non- 
difference" and difference, who is the beginning, one whose heart is 
endowed with the brilliance of wisdom and who is surrounded by 
intellect (Posited in his intelligence). 

"We seek shelter in Lord Ganesa who is in Samadhi (Yogic 
meditation), who shines in the hearts of Yogis, one who can be 
experienced through meditation. 

"We seek shelter in Lord Ganesa who is sportive with the reflections 
of his own form, whose illusion can be directly seen, who has many 
forms and who gives his own strength (to the seekers). 

"This entire Universe is created through the power of your illusion. 
You are beyond the three stages of Awakening, Dreaming and Sleeping. 
You are the reflection of Paramatna. We seek shelter in you, 0 Lord 
Ganesa. 

"You are the ruler, O single tusked God, you are the lord of Gunas 
(qualities), you are the preceptor of these Gunas, and you endlessly sing 
the praise of that unborn Paramatama, you are in all the three (viz. three 
worlds, three qualities and three stages), We seek shelter in you, 0 Lord 
Ganesa. 

"The world known as “Sushupti" (complete unconsciousness) is 
created by your own initiation (lit. sounding call). In both the (other) 
stages, you are endowed with an equal form. We seek shelter in you. 
Lord Ganesa. 

"That world of unconsciousness was in the remote past enveloped 
in darkness. With your mercy, it unfolded in two forms. With all its many 
forms, it is one. We seek shelter in you Lord Ganesa. 

"Only with your initiative, this minute world is created which has 
taken shelter in you. We seek shelter in you, Lord Ganesa, who is 
virtuous, full of dreams and bereft of end or beginning. 

"That minute world is dream which because of your penance turned 
all perfect and numerous. Because of vour mercy, the world is endowed 
with one form. We seek shelter in you lord Ganesa. 

"Upon your orders, that dream which was radiant in your heart has 
been turned into the excellent creation of this minute world which is 


REMEDIES THROUGH STOTRAS 457 


marked by numerous awakenings. We seek shelter in yon Lord Ganesa, 
who has unbounded energy. 

"That awakening world has become evident with the quality of 
passion (or desire) and is seen by your mercy. Though you have one form, 
you appear in several forms. O Lord Ganesa, we seek shelter in you. 

"With an innate nature (for creation), you have created this world 
and radiantly occupy it. Only Lord Ganesa is the giver of intelligence. 
We seek shelter in you Lord Ganesa. 

“Only with your orders, all the planets and brilliant stars shine in 
the furmaments. Only upon your orders these planets and stars carry out 
their duties of moving in the skies. We seek shelter in you Lord Ganesa. 

"Only upon your orders, Lord Brahma has created this Universe. 
Only upon your orders, Vishnu who is second to none administers the 
Universe and npon your orders, Lord Siva destroys it. We seek shelter 
in yon, O Lord Ganesa. 

"We seek shelter in such lord Ganesa with whose orders only, earth 
and water came to exist, on whose orders the rivers flow with water and 
on whose orders the oceans exist with the boundaries of water. 

"We seek shelter in such Lord Ganesa npon whose command Gods 
bestow effects of Karma (on the earthly beings), and on whose orders 
mountains remain still. 

"We seek shelter in such Lord Ganesa upon whose orders the Sesha 
Naga (the divine Cobra) carries the earth on its hood, upon whose orders 
Manmatha (the God of love) instills passion and upon whose orders the 
Sun God adores the wheel of Time (which is said to be Kala Purusha 
leading every phase of earthly developments). 

"We seek shelter in such Lord Ganesa upon whose orders, the Wind 
God blows wind, upon whose orders the fire God dwells in abdomens 
(creating hunger which keeps the world active) and npon whose orders, 
this entire movable and immovable universe keeps on moving. 

"Lord Ganesa dwells in the hearts of one and all. Only with his 
orders, this entire Universe bristles with brilliance. His form is endless. 
Remaining in everyone's hearts, he creates awareness. We seek shelter 
in such Lord Ganesa. 

"Excellent of the saints attain him with the power of their meditation. 
Who can (sufficiently) sing his praise? Yet, merely by our offering 
obeisance, he grants us excellent achievements. We seek shelter in such 
Lord Ganesa. 

Thus ends the stotra of shelter in Lord Ganesa, in the Mudgala 
Purana. 


458 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 
SOME RARE AND VALUABLE STOTRAS 


13. SAUBHAGYASHTOTTAR SHATNAM STOTRA 
(For Saubhagya of the women and for absolute 
prevention of widowhood) 


This is a well-known and popular saubhagyashtottar shatnam stotra. A 
woman who recites it atleast once every day can never suffer from the 
tragedy of widowhood, even if she has adverse combination in her birth 
chart in respect to the longevity of her life partner. This stotra has been 
tested many number of times by innumerable women who were blessed 
with ‘akhand saubhagya'. We advise all women, in whose horoscope 
the 7 or the 8'" house is afflicted by the placement of malefics or by 
the relationship of these houses with trikas, Mars, Saturn or Rahu, the 
recitation of this stotra will certainly promote the quality and longevity 
of conjugal bliss. 


AVAL NTA FAL 


PROPARAPIET AH TETRA ALAS ee | 
RAR YAS TI AAT YeTAT | | 

| TTY TRAP AATRG EMAL | 
frre siryad swears zerr Ta | | 
HINT FW Seen TTA | 
BT PIAA RD AAPA TPHETT | | 
AAPA AMATER Aa as Rerae | 
TONLE PTTL PIA HT Fae | | 
frovee artentr cater zarrifere | 
Hares arte TH TEER AAT | | 
GY AT ATS WAAR PT | 
Shiferencrot ware’ Frerarrer ARPT | | 
Sheen agen aa aWakt soy arta | 
AEAMATM ET FTTAPTAG 7 | | 
TY WRAL AAT TAPAS ARIAL | 


REMEDIES THROUGH STOTRAS 459 
agara free get weret agente | | 
AAPM TAMA RATT AT | 
sifrens Rreeeaszeg fear | | 
aan fara Reraonasy wes | 
SAT PERT Wray RAAAAGER AT | | 


AY TATA 


Breath arroitere errararaanted | 


TAPneza HS RIBaARA TS | 
serra oneaeronrra vara | 
FLRTSMIPATCM ACTA RATET | 
Sorrereterraeurenoaeor et | | 


elerar Racrenpeht eeanrrorrrgied | | 


460 


AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


west FAT ART AT AAA A | 
wale aaa ara wat aren waa SS | | 
Cad TF BAIT WT WPT TAT | 
OT TAPE WT wats ARASAT | | 
CRA WES CF AY Tey sq | 
AIPRATAAIT Gea SaASIPT | | 
uae wantsrar fret Waray areas | 
UTTNAL BEAT AT Healer sore | | 
QAP ARICA RAAT THE | 
aherret Telret 7 rer gfe geferq | | 
SD LPN ATATTTAAATT RAD AIL | 
THAT Ted Wea we feregery | | 
aie eae Pret tare BAT | 
PTET TAT BT BA AE eT if 


RARCATHEAT TB T TAT | | 
ama Tareyricrscaeag RYT | 
aRafearonres crerrerterarory | | 
gairiareanonret ar ara ag afer | 
rer yee aerate Gara gerararee | | 
TETAS TAA 4 TaAGt Peay | 

TS WIS SATIRE AAT ATT | | 
TH SH aera Usht TIT aMPETTET | 
Cet BIT WH AY eT TEdgze | | 


WAP Ma AT wT ar oref Rt Fe 


REMEDIES THROUGH STOTRAS 461 


TYR 1 RANA BH AAMT TERT BY YTBE TTA TS 
aATAT 4 Sab ferry H FAS YET 

@ wad ste yo edt ear & Frew es aroft edt ger 
al ta et am Preae at aot att yer at ere ag wet Be / 
Heh & Uae a HS WA H ART FAH TATA & FT 
Hae F Fal HLT BET AM AAA SBIR WAT EST 
a Get ot ae aaa fren & Hered wr Tae Keres FF 
WAT YH TI R GW BH TT Hed FH THR RTT 
Bm Teal wy yaar safer axe wry arter’ eofter 
WYTA & AGC TIA F eT & TYR 8 AY PAT Veh aT 
HS APA BY YS SF fee H stare wah eel F Feafer H 
ay ¥ Req e) & Ry % eat # aga F APT & al 
JOT Be APT SIRAY F CAML ITH TE Bt VT 
Y we TY E/ TAH F TAT SF TAPAS AM & | Fe 
an xe edt wart Rr + aed & aga Weta HT WwW 
BET I) F WYTT KH SA GANSTA AAT AT BS 
ae Rr ayeE oe Ten oft cileraPaal saa & | FT 
REAM] ART PLOT ORR F AIG BUH Ht aera MATT 
Yale Hl LTT BH UAT BU EIT Y FA ANT FT 
TEIN BT aes | 

TTA ST TH & 8 


Broa Bre Garand BSW BATH Bilas 
PHIRI BHU BTU HAAG Hear 
THETA BITANG ARMAS ATOR AAT BATA 


cerirayeen Tie  srercaregerraberfae, Feryar 
steaaonene surrarry soarsiflar sHrrareyr F 
ferarmerrar Fora atsrey sreorelt Foatoatt eafereyr 


462 


AN INSIGHT INTO Kuja DosHa 


TOM TET TRA TYTETAT STAT PASAT SAREGT 


AIT WAT Fal Aa AAT 3 | 
BVYTH F MTNA Be TA Ee | FST NTT 
a) sat eat B TWA Hl Ue HET WaT S| Atay wiley 
Sam WaT eA gered &) set 7 20 Het aed AR arerepy 
h aA sae WHIT Tel wra ales | sa tet SB Fae 
wensra sa fra ved F/ ara tare ft sae We Het 
el sah wna a wraeg arora F tay eireey aw sik 
wea F/ ae et ena Ee a se tay wearait F Free 
year & get ae sab fere ae tt goby Ter F/ aft fren 
at SUG Be ae & kia as snore ya & fe at se 
Ge aR Ved 2 sae ster ae bt ferry TE ara F/ 5a 
rT Br fra we aa ait ot Freer aPifers wet Pare aarer & 
aq oa var a pet ar an BAe as a7 alert HA BAT 
a ow qe Het eet at area A) HEAT We HF Tet ale 
WHT 54 ENA Bl WS BE A HEAT WS Bl GT a TAT 
al Ae &/ 34 SAA Bl BAN AN WS ANS Aho HTH 
afer ATH ASH BI AT BT SA S| CAT BAR ERE 
BH GA F SH AT SH AN BAT GH FE APT Hr aor F 
we od &/ Chet BAR & YON F RAT Ih MT Hr 
Tea Bt aa & | Aer ardie & Get F ETT HEI aH TE 
yal ae sented wee tat & 1 aredt Pret srerer caret Pref 
ad Bad eed & faayor wen ail F Sq BT A UT BT 
AT Sa & 1 Uae Ue Wa a ot afer arava Rear 


REMEDIES THROUGH S7ovkas 463 


Bl OT TRAN Bl MAT BTA B TH AT FT Hee 
BH B ART ABTA TATA F SIAM HA Met Br 
one 4 fer ara &) at afr ata s7 Tw at 3s AAT 
BT HAE AATE BA TEM & Saw Ferey eaferarertt 
SRT GT Tart Becht EF THT BAT SF) F TTT H 
aa HY JI GETS HD HM & lars FN 


MEANING OF SAUBHAGYASHTOTRA SATNAM 
IN ENGLISH 


Parshuram showed great interest and curiosity to know more and more 
about 108 names of Sri Devi. He prayed Rishi Duttatreya again and again 
to give more knowledge about "Saubhagyashtottar Satnam”. Ultimately 
Rishi got pleased. accepted the requests of Bhargav Vanshiya Parashuram, 
and replied very softly. 

O Parashuram, The I08 names, about which you want to know are 
the precious gems and are saved secretly as a treasure. Although there 
are one Lac names of the Goddess "Shri Vidhya” expressed in different 
holy books like "Puranas" and ‘*‘Agams” but "Saubhagyashtottar Satnam" 
108 names are main. They were told by Lord "Shiva" to goddess 
"Parvati" on her repeated requests. Shiva is the Rishi and Chhand is 
Anushtuk and Sri Lalitambika is the God of this powerful stotra. It should 
be recited by the devotee in meditative state by heart and with total 
concentration on Tripur Sundari Shri Lalita Devi. Names are:- 

Kameshwari, Kamshakti, Kamasaubhagyadayini, Kamrupa, Kamkala, 
Kamini, Kamalasana, Kamla, Kalanahina. Kamniya, Kalavarti, Padmada 
Bharti Sevya, Kalpita-shesh-sansthiti, Anuttra, Anagha, Ananta, 
Adbhutrupa, Analodbhava, Atilokcharitra, Atisundari. Atishubhprada, 
Agahantri, Ativistara, Archantushta, Amitprabha, Ekrupa, Ekveera, 
Eknatha. Ekanta, Archanpriya, Ekaikbhavtushta, Ekrasa, Ekantjanpriya, 
Aidhmanprabha, Vaidhatbhaktapataknashini, Elamodmukha, Enodri. 
Shakayudh-samasthiti, Iha-shuna, Ipsitaishadi-servya, Ishanvarangana. 
Ishwara, Agyapika, Ikarbhavya, Ipsitfalpa, Ishana, Hareshaisha, Arunakshi, 
Ishwara, Ishwari, Lalita, Lalana-rupa, Layahina, Lasattanu,Layasarva. 
Layakshori, Layakartri, Layatmika, Laghima, Laghumadhya, Adhya, 
Lalmana, Ladhndruta, Hayarudha, Hatamitra, Harkanta, Haristuta, Haya- 
griva, Ishtda, Halapriya, Harshsamudbhava, Harshna, Hallaka-abhangi, 
Hastyantaishwarya dayini, Halhast-rchitpada, Havirdan-prasadini, Rama, 


464 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


Ramarchita, Ragyi, Rammayi, Rati, Rakshini, Ramani, Rakadityadi- 
mandalpriya, Rakshita, Akhillokeshi, Rakshogannishndini, Antantkarini, 
Ambhojkriya-ntak-bhayankari, Ambrupa, Ambujkara, Ambujjatvarprada, 
Antahpujya-Kriyantantada, Antardhyan-vimochini, Antkarati 
vamankisthita, Antah-Sukhrupini, Sarvagya, Sarvaga, Sara, Samsukha, 
Sati, Santati, Santata, Soma, Sarva, Sankhya, Sanatani. 

O Parashuram ! These are Ashtotra satnam. These are the gist of 
the secret names of Devi. Such a stotra is rarely found in Trilok. It should 
not be expressed in front of those who don't have faith in Goddess. It 
is very powerful and effective Stotra. Kamdev conquers Trilok with the 
help of this stotra. The person who recites it in all three sandhyas 
regularly and with total concentration, nothing is impossible for him on 
this earth. All Nitya and Naimityik karmas are ineffective without this 
stotra. If a devotee recites it one thousand times, he can destroy his 
enemies even by his vision. One can control a person by using red 
Karveer (Kaner) flower in yagna alongwith recitation of this Stotra, by 
using yellow ones can terrify his enemies, by using blue ones, can defeat 
his enemies, by using black pepper or red chillies, can kill his enemies 
and by using clove, can cure the diseases. If the recitation is done in 
form of "Jap", Goddess fulfils his all desires and nothing is impossible 
for him. 

It has been experienced number of times that the female, who reads 
this Stotra regularly, never suffers loss of husband during her life span. 
There is no possibility of her widowhood, even if so indicated in her 
birth chart. 

Following mantra should also be recited by all women to eliminate 
the possibility of widowhood, especially by those who are not able to 
recite above stotra due to lack of knowledge of Sanskrit. 


HH a AH Ter / | 
14. BHAGWATI MATANGI MANTA AND STOTRA 


Matangi is the name of the daughter of Matang Muni. Matangi stotra 
and worship of Matangi Devi is most useful for the blessings of Mata 
Saraswati and to be well versed in music. Matangi stotra is very powerful 
and most effective in giving all kinds of conjugal bliss, marital happiness. 
akhand saubhagya, desired husband, early marriage and prevention of 
all kinds of problems, adversities, obstacles and negative effect of 
various planetary configurations. Women, who want to lead happy, 
prosperous and everlasting conjugal life, must read Matangi stotra 


REMEDIES THROUGH STOTRAS 465 


regularly. Mantra and stotra of Matangi Devi enhances the countenance 
and physical appearance and beauty of females. 


Matangi Mantra, Yantra, Sadlina, Stotra. 


Matangi Dhyan 
2a ori  wifierrierne | 
TEMES GEEUMMALERTT | | 

Matangi Yantra 


Prepare the Matangi yantra as given below. The yantra should be 
worshiped properly in 16 phases with the help of fresh flowers and other 
things, which are used in shodshopchar pujan. Thereafter, recite Matangi 
Mantra as given below for 108 times. 


Matangi Mantra 
af weit F ae GE ear | 
Procedure (Viniyoga) 


re Pirriaer ekronratates err wee Shera if a 
Seiad Fi ahr 7H adeneardear aafaRare | 


466 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


Rishiyadianyas @e@fears) 


eae THe mere EF aikaresy Te TYME E MATS TE ATTN 
Kar Hridayadianyas (@¢ azarae) ef af FEF aif F 
THIRST ARSMSTGAT | 

arranged Rhrrrervarrairray wwe wer aghte 
ATH Gearaerd | | 
marinaded wer ae frrary | | 
marinaded wear aed fever | | 


BY tard Yer sa Gare at frat & 2 
sorph forge Barra wecisry Weir 
HAMATYINGA TETRA | : 
ortramrsa Rapa re rear Bae aeat 
shragoiricikra We Ter Geet | | 


Mansopchar Pujan 
% Bf aif x maT GE we | 

Matangi Stotra S471 TAL 
arra mRIrga + Tene rerga Bitcrarge | 
We OT aT fers iran TT Pre aferaeor ares 1 | 
Tt ef Taare aeHeTETArL | 
arraatearamede varrerd frrnetor /2/ 
faracarReaiireneintd Ft artery | 
apm saat feayat verde Piferrzeyrart | 3 | 
peared Tel TTR Bere! APT | 
marr weer Rei deiyel yerratraq 141 
henreritaHorya aredrraregPraaaqeary | Tera 


REMEDIES THROUGH STOTRAS 467 


wry Tht afecrcnairarrreryary: 15 | Feaeoy rear 
TITRA GR Tea Taree =| aleve aa 
weary AHeirerenyPrrraeant = 161 Bra Bee 
PNB HTM STAP MIT =| ATAPTH a Ble 
STAY saa E NHI «17 '/ 
PTET TATA AMAA TAP NATAL | 
wera? 7 Aad wes wearswa sarin 18 / 
aah arikean at wear 4 wage were | 
qe fret Preqasaira na derqad aarT 19 / 

15, DHOOMAVATI MANTRA, DHYAN, YANTRA, SADHNA 


There are ten Mahavidya on the name of ten most important deities to 
be worshiped for the accomplishment of various ambitions of life. Every 
deity of Mahavidya has a vast field of its influence over the mankind. 
One should select the most appropriate and suitable deity for the 
particular purpose. These mahavidyas are: - 


. Kali 

Tara 

Bala Tripur Sundri 
. Bhumeshwari 
Tripur Bhairvi 

. Chinnmasta 

. Dhoomavati 

. Baglamukhi 

. Matangi 

. Kamala 


WONADAKWARWHN — 


— 
oO 


All auspicious and inauspicious works, activities and ambitions are 
covered by these 10 deities. Each deity has a specific role in and action 
over a few particular aspects. Dhoomavati is empowered to defeat or 
eliminate enemies, for prosperity and begetting children. Bhagwati 
Dhoomavati prevents widowhood, that is the loss of husband most 
effectively. 

Once Parvati Ji was very hungry. Inspite of her repeated requests, 
to her husband Bhagwan Shankar, to provide some eatables to her to 
pacify her hunger. Bhagwan Shanker asked her to wait for a while. This 
repeatedly happened and Bhagwan Shanker again and again asked her 
to have some more patience for the meal. Parvati Ji could not bear the 


468 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


hunger any longer and lost all her patience. To pacify her hunger, Parvati 
Ji engulfed Bhagwan Shanker. Thus, she lost her husband and suffered 
the curse of widowhood. However, Bhagwan Shanker, with the help of 
yoga Maya became alive again. But lot of smoke was coming out of the 
body of Parvati Ji as she swallowed Bhagwan Shanker. That's why she 
was named Dhoomavati. She prayed Bhagwan Shanker to pardon her 
this biggest sin and stupid act. Bhagwan Shanker relented after seeing 
the true tears of Parvati Ji. She had realised her unpardonable sin as a 
mistake. Bhagwan Shanker said that she will be worshiped in this world 
as Dhoomavati. Those who will worship her with dedication and faith 
will be blessed with victory over enemies, good children, wealth, 
prosperity and saubhagya. This is the worship of Mata Parvati personi- 
fied as widow. Those who are likely to suffer such curse of widowhood 
in their lives, must worship Dhoomavati Devi so that they may never 
suffer loss of husband. This should be done in the following manner. 


Dhoomavati Dhyana 


Faron asa ger ePatu arr | 
Rogan) er Reever Preece | | 
PIPETTE AAPATIAERT | 
rere qe aia | | 
geen aT yoreBleen =§— aBfeceronr | 
ghaqeantem Premier aereraer | | 


Following mantra should be recited 108 times for mantroddhar. 
Dhoomavati’s Mantra 
gx ae dt a a | 


Doomavati Yantra : Dhoomavati yantra should be prepared as given 
below with the help of sandal stick or pen by Ashtagan over Bhojpatta, 
copper or gold plate. This yantra should be properly worshipped by 
shodshopchar pujan and the concerning mantra should be recited as 
explained below. 


REMEDIES THROUGH STOTRAS 469 


Results of Mantra of Dhoomavati (rear TA Den) 


wer og eet anbey ate sree Pr & // 


Viniyog (Afrarr) ara sepa rarer wrantes Raa 
srenadean x atte carer sifade Toes Bera 7q srgeraret 
faRrarie | 


Rishiyanyas (Keeare) eet we Aree | Weare TI 
7a | shhyaradicades Te eet | & ahary 7A Yer | ear 
STRTS 798 Teele | Torreplereereal Te ara | ferrari 77 wat 
1 | ae Beane RT 


470 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


Dhyan (£77) 
Sa ETAT Saar RaaL | 
aE sired a zee g ydex | / 
gear feeivfeon a egferepercterrert | 
NAL PEM TTT FART ei 


Dhoomavati Mala Mantra 


% x gnats agerhart wee Terenert 
TOTIACATU TTC FT RPT ATI 
ROTTER AATIEMEIIT TH OR RAT RIT 
RaahaRy sanrarada Teli ww TR WHE 
RNE Race Rar wer wy vee wale 
arene fazer ser ear TER yroueR 
TReasR atareR Taree wearaiaeR TeDstert 
wy TY errart warvEdeni yxorary srefafer 
Taare THNATTTAT FST ATT ART ART 


varieslerr Rreyeneryed Breyer Horoer wa yer 
aeya Indy Tey yyy weeryoart eyry + 
yaerriert rare fara 7 TT TT af Af At at 
MTFAFAFFG xX LY x < XYFFCFESCEY Y 
ee gf arate at ter tar OT OTA TERT TES 


This mantra of Dhoomavati will give best results if it is done on lunar 


REMEDIES THROUGH STOTRAS 471 


or solar eclipse, akshaya, tritiya, holi night. After recitation of mantra 
for 108 times on these auspicious mahurtha many adversities, evil spirits, 
ill, luck, ailments etc. can be removed. 


Offering, dedication and expressing gratitude towards 
Bhagwati Dhoomavati 


rearnrrncarerrdtasy mrmuruf feat 
TAA QGOBYILT = TATERTABST ATTA | 


ayer rapist zee FaTBMAETT 
fideieasraraaa Frew seat | 


15. PAVAMAN SUKTA 
(Remedy for marital disharmony, separation and other 
adversities of conjugal disorder) 


There is difference between stotra and sukta. Stotra is a prayer while 
sukta is a verdict, which gives more lasting and quick results. Pavaman 
sukta have been taken from Atharva Veda under Paippalad samhita. 
These 2! shlokas are mentioned there as Pavaman sukta, for elimination 
of all adversities of married life. Women, who read it with firm faith, 
get nd ofall problems connected with their family and conjugal life. We 
had given Pavaman sukta in our first book 'VAIVAHIK VILAMB KE 
VIVIDH AYAM AVAM MANTRA", for the benefit of readers. We 
received hundreds of letters from women, who followed this remedy for 
happiness of their family life and to overcome the differences with their 
husband owing to one or the other reason. These women obtained 
astonishing results after reciting Pavaman sukta, which is given below. 
Those women, who are suffering or are likely to suffer from vagaries 
of married life, are advised to read this stotra at least once every day 
in regular puja. However, we have never advised Pavaman sukta to 
women who are likely to suffer loss of their husband due to affliction 
of conceming planets and houses in their conceming birth charts. 
Pavaman sukta is best for preventing misunderstandings, difference of 
opinion, conjugal disharmony, mental or physical separation and divorce. 

In order to stop/control severe clashes and conjugal disputes in 
married life, Pavaman sukta proves to be immensely powerful, energetic 
and effective. It has remarkable potency to show positive results. If the 
situations in marital relationships are uncontrollable and all efforts fail 
to show results, usage of ordinary mantras prove ineffective; this sukta 
must be used. Positive results are bound to come. 


472 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


This sukta is written in Paippalad Samhita of the Atharv-veda. It 
contains twenty one shlokas in which lord Pavman, is worshipped 
because the whole universe, air, earth, water, heaven, days, night, all 
directions, Sun, Moon, planets, fire, altar, mountains, rivers, seas, 
oceans, clouds, past, future and even God Prajapati are purified by him, 
hence devotee prays for his/her purification also. 


TIRE WA BIL | 

TH ETI Waar FAG we // 1 

ar yardRe aera | 

aH FEGIRT Tene GAG We // 2 

at yt erage awe aa ate eas | 

TT EMIT Tae J AW // 3 

aq yd seria fers ga sa aa fee | 
TH AEGIRN Trae JA We // 4 

aT Val yaaa Tea zaps WE AT Yaw 
TH FET Tas TUG We /! 5 

aq oa aera WReere we a7 Gas | 
TH ETI Tae FIG 1/1 6 
aq at afer slereta yar | 

ast Tear eae | 

TH FETIRT Tae Jag Wei! 7 

at yt diferent arear asi sierra | 

TH Tey Tare Fg ww // 8g 

aT YT HT Wa HN Hares | 

TH FETT Tra Fug we // 9 

aT Ya Hae aay Taya WE FT FAT | 
TH WEIR THT JG We // 10 

ar yn seeashre tae we a7 yas | 
TH HEMI Tas Tg We // uw 

a yan Ran sada Tae waar HbiriP ice | 
TH HET Tar Fg We // 12 

Gt YA TARATH TAT ATI eS HE AT Ya | 
TH FETIRY Tras Fg Ae // 13 


REMEDIES THROUGH STOTRAS 473 


a7 Yat Weafenee ayers ae FT are | 
rH Tern Gera TAG We | / 14 
aq yams veers fevait toarreae ays we a7 ae | 
TH FET TETAS FUT WA! | 15 
aa ya vee Freres ayers ae FT Yas | 
TH HEMI THE Fg WH // 16 
aT yar froacans West Taras | 
TH TET Tera TA AT 1 | 17 
aq Gas Tardeite fot yer errr | 
TH FEMUR Tere FIG We // 18 
aT ye eager arate | 
TH AEG TT FG We // 19 
aT yaad we aa det Garag | 
aT wer Tans FG We | / 20 
rr yaaa wel ACY Ted HTT | 
TT HEFIRY THAT FA A |) 24 
16. MANTRA FROM RAMAYANA 


The under mentioned shloka is taken from a Hindu epic Ramcharitramanas 
written by Tulsidas. This shloka is for those women who either can not 
or have some problem in reading the texts of Sanskrit or they can not 
determine themselves to follow all the instructions to do the mantras or 
stotras. 


TaeTT Et TH WRAT 

wale fere arr ward | | 
ohert Fifer aehr ae er 

HE Ha BT TH ga wT | 


On any Sunday when Pushya nakshatra is rising, a gold sword, an inch 
long, is made and shodshopchar pujan of Sita Ji is required be done. 
The mantra should be recited 1000 times every day ic. 10 Malas. One 
has to blow out air from mouth over the sword of gold while reading 
or reciting the above mantra. This should be continued for 41 days and 
after completing it, woman should bath most comprehensively. There- 
after, she should wear new and beautiful clothes and she should decorate 


474 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


herself by sindoor, bindi, gold omaments and other materials. She should 
adom herself with this sword around her neck by reciting the above 
mantra for 108 times. All women will be highly benefited with Akhand 
Saubhagya and all her desires will be fulfilled. 


PREVENTION FROM UNTIMELY AND 
UNNATURAL DEATH 


The above remedial measures are concerned with prevention of widow- 
hood, elimination of Kuja Dosha, promotion of conjugal harmony and 
removal of the possibilities of separation, setbacks, suicide, suppression, 
accidents, and death. These also help in neutralizing the negative 
planetary vibrations causing ailments like cancer, heart trouble, mental 
disorder, hemorrhage and nervous breakdown. Apart from these remedial 
measures, our sages have given us most powerful "Mrityunjaya", "Maha 
Mnityunjaya", "Sanjeevani Mrityunjaya", "Laghu Mrityunjaya" etc. for 
the cure, relief and prevention of such ailments and untimely deaths. That 
is a separate subject, which will be dealt some time in a separate cover. 
We are giving here Mantras of Maha Mrityunjaya, Pashn Patastra and 
Indrakshi stotra, which have strength to cure the native and to protect 
him from unnatural, untimely and unexpected demise. 


17. MANTRA OF MAHA MRITYUNJAYA 


Maha Mrityunjaya, Mrityunjaya Sanjeevani mantra, Laghu Mrityunjaya 
mantra, Anushtup Tryambak mantra prayog, Gayatri Mantra garbhit 
Triyambak mantra, Kshatabshara Mrityunjaya mantra, Mrityunjaya kavach 
and various types of Mrityunjaya mantra are essential to be recited by 
pandit or acharya or self as and when required. These are to be used 
along with the specific mantra, stotra, sukta etc. for preventing widow- 
hood, which we have detailed in the beginning of the text. For all mantras 
of Mrityunjaya, procedure and purashcharan, Havana, tarpan, marjan etc. 
the book named Mahamrityunjaya by Dr. Rudra Dev Tripathi is most 
authentic and authoritative. 


18. VISHNU S AH ASTRA NAAM 


This is a very effective and quite useful stotra in which thousand different 
names of lord Vishnu are there. Vishnu is "Palanhaar" i.e. the protector. 
Those, who are suffering from incurable and complicated ailments, 
should read Vishnu Sahasrtra Naam. Books of Vishnu Sahastra Naam 
are available every where for further details. 


REMEDIES THROUGH STOTRAS 475 
19. PASHUPATASTRA 


MANTRA (7=7) 
FO MA WYTIMAMRNAT TAT TEM HA AT ST 
Bes SHereanraqenen sara wera We Farrarre | 
VINIYOG (fafa? ) 

FAT ATIF FETT YTD AG AAL TIBET LIST TIT 
TART «TATTERED «APT PATTI 
srirraattrar arate ara wefikerare 
Teer Swear gaTera Ter Rrerr aareifeanrery 
MBM TATETS MEER TAAL CAAA TAT 
FIORINA ARITA T =FAESASTTMA BLAM T 
verelfooreenrer wettrrferererone = twraferreerheop 
SSA MAAHIG | 

% BOPP TT GL | ETAT GL | TACT GE | 
at GL | FST GL | ATT GE | GSTT GZ | 
TRAT GE | FST SL | FAA GL | WMT BE | 
aA Ge | HEMT GL | We GL | GRA GE! 
BRNT Gl 1 YORTT GZ | TIT GL | TAT GE! 
WMA GL | ZTE GL | GEGRATT GE | FETT 
BZ | FSA GL | HHRIMAMA BL | fofeswrearr 
Be | BRERA GL | TRAATT GL | TARRATT GE! 
TORATS Z| Rrerara Se | ffefresrara Ge | TWerat 
ara 2 | yafeara Ge | arorenrgy Ge | AARATA 
Ge | WRTTATT GL | WATATT GL | MMPRTATT GE | 
UPTATY GL | ISRATT GL | AESATT GF | 
PHSATT GZ | PATATA GE | FOMARATT GLI SOTATT 
Bk | HARRATE GF | AAMTARATT GF | ECAH 
BL | FEAT GL | MRESRATT GL | WHATATT GE 
ararara Ge | efafyerara Ge | Mea GE | 
waATA GZ / WSL / aS! EE |! BS FE/ 
we GZ | oe Gl) t GE! Ye BE | Yas Fe/ 
ee bl | Wee GL | AA GE | ABW SL | AT GE/ 


476 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


whee Ge 1 = Rdaeanrd Ge | wads GE | AdaPT 
we | adit Ge | aderd Ge | Ader GE | 
ee / Hol FL!) FL / SM GL / AT 
Be | RAT GE | AMAT GE | BARAT HE / 
GTUMTATH GE | TERTATT GE | WREMRATT GE | 
warary he / faetarara Be | Me WT Ge | at 
at G2 1 FF Ge / wT wT GE / AANA aA 
Be | SET BET GS | TYTA TYTT GS | ATA TTT 
pe | Aalar awitqT FE! 

ferarera fererraa Ge 1 weghe arr AeA BE | | 


After reading these mantras, dasamsa, havana, tarpan, marjan should be 
done by following mantras: - 


HT TAT HET TAT TAS ATCT 

H Honea GZ ATT | 
Pashupatastra should be read for 1100 times in very serious cases of 
ailments like cancer, AIDS, Hepatitis-B, brain tumor, Leukaemia etc. ie. 
incurable sufferings. However, Pashupatastra is quite effective even if 
it is done [25 times in the case of ordinary ailments like Tuberculosis, 
neurological problems, stomach trouble, arthritis and cervical spondylitis 
etc. Dashamsa havan, tarpan, and marjan are also essential for the best 
results. 

It is always advisable to recite the mantra of Maha Kali to enhance 

the results of Pashupatastra. 


20. MANTRA OF MAHAKALI 


We are giving hereunder the mantra of Maha Kali, which has been 
strengthened to cure and prevent death like serious troubles and incurable 
ailments. 


Mantra 
a eo eH FE A A rere BT wl BT EE at 
&f zara 


REMEDIES THROUGH STOTRAS All 


21. INDRAKSHI STOTRA 
(Prevents untimely widowhood and death) 


This is a wonderful stotra, which is most effective and as good as Maha 
Mrityunjaya, Sanjivni Mrityunjaya, and Pashu Patastra or even more 
potent than that. The shodshopchar pujan is done of Indrakshi Devi 
before reciting the Indrakshi stotra, which is given below. This is rarely 
known stotra and not commonly used by the astrologers, pandits, and 
acharyas. We have experienced the wonderful results of Indrakshi stotra 
where other measures failed or were not much effective. It is always 
advisable to recite Indrakshi stotra if the 5in house is under the influence 
of Venus either by occupation, ownership or by strong aspect. Dashamsha, 
Havwvan, Tarpan, Marjan should essentially be done for best benefic 
results and for absolute recovery of the patient. 

Indrakshi Stotra comprises the sacred names of Goddess Indrakshi. 
Lord Indra worshipped the goddess by these divine names. Whosoever 
recites this Stotra hundred times becomes free from diseases, if thousand 
times his all wishes are fulfilled. Undoubtedly this is a powerful Stotra 


expressed by Lord Indra. 
Sart ear 
earT 
sare faypat af Perera waraare | 
are Ta eet aero ay aegeres | 


sare ar arian grag | 
Get aeaenareanyry aaa! | 


se sare 
sare aT ar aft sacs ayerEAT | 
Mm? mead aft sat arene fryers | 
BRUT Here TTT HETTTT | 
Treat a a anedtt arene serene | | 
ARI Weare Sarot Bente | 
HPPA UTA BRIA TA | | 
Poa aeaen Ferooparay TATE | 
TET FATHOM TRE ASAT | | 


478 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


aya war rr wWreat frafez! 
rag eet a Gert WATT! | 
Wea FAT T apPoST ACTA | 
sah aeaq a waoiade Wr! | 
rave Pore war a fereasifet Ferezor | 
war walled act gad zeros | | 
great arena eer Pra ATTA | 
artet arier a iar tReet | | 
afer enferefferfer ferer crete aera | 
arma fasrear yor arreiresraiterar | | 
warn Wed sat exaqcararar Fra | 
Arar wart waroft orpereforeiRewr | | 
weg wera AAT Toner | 
Qrad Taree yf HHovTHT | | 
caraetters ear seu eftrar | 
sierra Fey year aay aera! | 
BAATHED Al THT ATT FT! « 
sey Hrd any wera 7 Fora | | 


We have given several preventive and remedial measures regarding the 
rectification of marital disorders, unhappy married life, conjugal disas- 
ters, separation, suppression, set backs, widowhood, loss of wife, and 
sufferings of spouse by serious and incurable ailments. We would like 
to invite the attention of our readers towards effectiveness of these 
mantras, stotras, suktas etc. We are research scholars of astrology and 
have had the opportunity of examining the birth charts of more than a 
lakh of natives and have seriously and sincerely advised these measures 
as and when required. Most positive results have been experienced both 
by the devotees and us. Many families, who were ruined due to marital 
mishaps, have astonishingly regained their happiness, love and their 
sweet home by following suitable measures applicable to them. To select 
a suitable measure for a particular native also requires lot of knowledge 
and experience. 


Hera Mae: , HEA alata: |} 
werma-Rerd ue ered suarea-PNasy tt 


The association of a great person is always helpful to progress. 
You can see that the water on the leaf of a lotus looks as beautiful 
as pearl. 


CHAPTER 5.5 


MANGAL KAVACH AND 
MANGAL YANTRA 


A) MANGAL KAVACH 


The function of Mangal Kavach is different than Mangal stotra. Mangal 
Kavach should be recited where protection and safety is required. This 
is very useful for those in whose birth chart, serious combination of 
accident and violent death is indicated. 


VINIYOG 

GH PPITTHATHATT HITT He | ATST Gee! seat 

dan (Mrrdsratentes ar fafrarr | | 
DHYAN 

cara wags fei agyot tera Tere | 

ergs sitmercer eit wer TT RATETES TOMA | 
KAVACH 

amas Rrreage + erotyas | 

at THRE Ug a Ft THT | 

Tea seers We Fa FT wearer | 

yo Ft eA 7 ERA sMfRereTe | 

aes Wg area eed Mg eifeas | 

ale 4 Teresa Fa da are | 

wngae Hoe ag wel weErea Aer | 


480 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


watery arity cat Fae | 
ase aaa Ret adagharmet! 
yagatvonrarn word wefahEee | 
adiret da ator xe! 
otratnve sor aeletererereray | 
Wraeernesy T TAT TTT! | 

ahr iravsayan Tama TLL | 


This Mangal Kavach is most useful for those who are suffering due to 
malefic effects of Mars. This is wonderful Kavach, which ruins enemies 
or the enemies are badly defeated im the fight. If one is suffering fiom 
evil spirits, the recitation of the Kavach will remove all such problems. 
This prevents all kinds of ailments especially those, which are indicated 
by Mars such as Blood Pressure, muscular tronble, injury, burns, cunts, 
boils and operation etc. This Kavach of Mars prevents rivalry, punish- 
ment, and penalty and gives all kinds of happiness, wealth, prosperity 
and accomplishment of desires. 


B) MANGAL YANTRA 


There are many kinds of remedial measures in which yantra and tantra 
also play a prominent role in curtailing the evils. 

Yantra means an instrument or apparatus or a TILASM, a mystical 
graph. It is the shortest and easiest boon handed over to us by our siddha 
sages for fulfillment of our ambitions. Various Yantras are worshipped 
in our old temples, such as Gayatri yantra is worshipped in Bahuchari 
mandir. A yantra is worshipped in Amba mata temple. Shri yantra made 
of solid gold by Adi Shankaracharya is worshipped in Annapurna mandir 
of Varanasi. After long samadhies, sadhna and experiments, our great 
sages have designed various kinds of yantras for various works. When 
certain mantras are recited again and again, such graphs or images are 
formed due to vibrations and resonance of sound waves formed by 
pronouncing mantras. These yantras can be made on gold, silver, copper, 
bhojpatra, or sphatik etc. Auspicious and some specific Muhurts have 
also been specified for preparation of yantra. These yantras can be 
written on bhojpatra with Ashtagandh using pen of wing of peacock or 
Anaar (Pomegranate). These yantras can also be carved or embossed 
on various metals as mentioned above. Special and specific mantra japa 
and worship is done on these yantras to energize them. 


MANGAL KAVACH AND MANGAL YANTRA 481 


PREPARATION OF MANGAL YANTRA AND 
ITS PROPITIATION 


Mars does play a vital role, in a female chart particularly, as it is a karaka 
or significator for husband. Therefore, the affliction of Mars curtails the 
marital harmony and causes delay. Mangal yantra has been used very 
successfully to rectify such adversities. 

This yantra is of a triangular shape and it is embossed or engraved 
over a triangular plate of copper. Twenty-one triangles are made inside 
a big sized triangle. Different names of Mars are written in every small 
triangle. The vantra of Mars should be properly placed vertically for its 
propitiation. This should be worshipped with shodashopchar poojan, 
using sweets and red flowers. Pran Pratishtha should be done, before 
finally worshipping it everyday. This is a strong and very advantageous 
yantra and prevents rash temperament, cures high or low blood pressure, 
expedites marriage of girls and provides marital bliss of a high order. 

Mangal yantra also protects one from enemies and rivals and they 
are defeated. Accidents and conflicts, wounds, operations etc are cured 
or saved. 

Mangal Yantra should be prepared in appropriate Muhurt. Position 
of Moon and the rising nakshatra should be favourable one on the basis 
of the birth chart. We will not discuss here about the Muhurt as it is 
a different subject. It is always advisable to prepare the yantra in the 
bright lunar half of Vaishakh or Margshirsh Maas. Favourable nakshatra, 
Tara, Yoga synchronizing with Tuesday will be the ideal period for the 
preparation of Mangal yantra. After preparation of yantra in appropriate 
and favourable period, regular worship of so prepared yantra should be 
done every day for at least one year. The worship should be done with 
the help of red chandan, red flower, roli, kesar etc. Prana Pratishtha 
of the yantra is most essential which may be got done by any learned, 
experienced and expert Acharya. This yantra with prana pratishtha 
should be worshipped in the following manner. This is called shodshopchar 
poojan of Mangal Yantra. 


SANKALP (ar) 
SoreaTeN RN AT AT UNS ATMS ATMA PTET 
OME MARTA TENN ITARTT ire walle wer Prelerge 


® a gerard Rea agar teraerd sngenraggaet 
yore frase ar gx meee aft arr zac Terre 


482 AN INSIGHT INTO KuJA DosHa 


aad ater! aera are wart yareleratee a afer | 
VINIYOG (afar) 


D wer are fesoe xfee Maat gee vaeatilaieaa af aae 
& ae oneas ade Rat at fafare | 


RISHIVADINYASA (37/77) 


B feewer wad are ° forty! 
Wea wet Tas ae / 


KARANYAS (#¢2777) 
 % sae” ayer TA | 
% a ara atipar Tae | 
 & are” meaaay ras | 
a ae Ware” aantarar Tae | 
% @ Way afceray Ta | 
Oe db” BIT TST TAS | 
HRIDAYDIANYAS ( g¢ae@qs7=7) 
9% stare Beary THe | 
% at itara” feared rarer | 
 & ara frat age | 
3 as siparea” weraTT EX | 
oo @ we” taxa ate | 
3 we aay” HAT FE | 
SARVANGANYAS (#a/777 ) 
Tene TAs” arerere | 


5 Pyar ae © arg 


Be Be 


MANGAL KAVACH AND MANGAL YANTRA 483 


oo mOTET THE” Hes | 

HS eragerr ae aeals | 
w 
xo 


After all kinds of Nyas as mentioned above, one should do Dhyan as 
given below: 


DHYAN ( 277) 

ware Br den saree germ at araae | 

HAA AGT AACTTTT MTT THT TT AS | | 
Thereafter, the worship of Jamra Paatra (copper pitcher) i.e. Kalash 
should be done. 


Peeth Pooja (4%7o Ya) Worship of Savartho bhadra chakra-king bhadra 


484 AN INSIGHT INTO Kusa DosHa 


mandal- should be done after their preparation over the peeth where all 
other powers and deities have been called and placed. 


% 7 wogaile Tad We saat 77 | 
Thereafter, worship of nine shakti’s should be done in the following 
order: 


arid 77 | 
THOTT THR | 
arr 77 | 
aes TAB | 
wer fracoedt aA | 
aor favre TA | 
ger Tapyet 7A | 
weer TA | 
In the middle 

wo rat Ty | 


Thereafter, bathe or snan the yantra with pure water and by panchamrit, 
and thereafter, again with pure water. After bathing, pushpadhyasan, that 
is offering of flowers, should be done on all 21 triangle of the Mangal 
yantra with the help of following mantras. 


GO TH TT THATPUTM AT JRNT ATT APTA TAT TA | 


After offering of flowers, concentrate on Mangal Dev Yantra and invite 
him humbly with pleasant mood by re-reciting Mangal Gayatri mantra, 


% Hare fer waaeena cate wat wae area! 


Thereafter, do shodashopchar pujan i.e. worship with flower, tilak, 
incense, sweets, fruits, betel nuts etc. by using Mangal Gayatri mantra 
and by offering red flowers, red chandan, red clothes etc. 


ATT Yair 
After Aavaran pooja, do shadang pooja by extending rice grains in all 


Be Be Be Be Be Be Be We 


directions. 
 % wre gears Te lee agar gry Tea THe | 
% af sire Are ener (Are arager gaat aden 7 | 
% & rea Arar are | Rrar singer vane atantt ra | 


MANGAL KAVACH AND MANGAL YANTRA 485 


% ae war waar BX lara Hager Gory aay 77 | 
 & ae drxare aire larva sarge Goren aan 7A | 
% we dre spar me larer Hagel Foray Tay TA | 


Pushpanjali 


5 arte Rie 4 Ae oreonrrreaerers | 

wera Te Fer ermracoreeay | | 
Thereafter read all 21 names of Mars and put one flower every time over 
Mangal Yantra in various triangles one after another. 


8 ar ame | ATT Aarga Garay Teaey THe | 
 % yfrgarer me iytigr stage ora aah 7A | 
% amet 7H lame ager gran weeny Te | 

oo sivas ae larrre ager vores Teen Fe | 

% Revers ve iRerre sage qarente aden 798 | 
oo HeraraT Tae | rerera Sagat Goran Teast THe | 
oo adentaterara THe ladetfetere asager var at 
ab a | 

% eile 7 lomed araget yore That Te) 
Janae lenena forget yore aeentt ae | 
0 aI BWHTT Te aT STEN Hagar yoraey 


% errerara Te lerrera saager gory atatt a7 | 
% aor Te laa Aergar ory eat THe | 

Go are THe lle rage Toren aeenPy aA | 

oo yfrerr Te lyfe aager yaa atatt 7 | 

% yfrrera Te lyfe Hagar Garenhe Tear 7A | 
% sara THs lara Hager ory Tay 77s | 

% mae ame lam atragar yoremy atany 7H | 

G WAIT TERY THs aT ett Haga yore Tea Tae | 
% adghear me ladgheag aagat grant aah a | 
wo whereas 7! weirere Ager Goran Tea 
77 | 


486 AN INSIGHT INTO KusjA DosHA 
PUSHPANJALI 


ASHTA MATRIKA POOJAN 


2 are rae | are sfrager yorente ardeate 79 | 

a mTacaed THs | Meath sfager corey Teeat 773 | 
2 aber ais | abant srager yore aah 77 | 

a ore THs | Tone Ager Yorely reany aH | 
arial Tas 1 anrer aargaer yore aeentt 77 | 
gard 799 | sare sage grate atente 77. | 
ayers as | aqver sfagar carat aah 77H | 
wernera ais | werved farger voreny aTeare 778 | 
% aed Te | ae ager qorntt ater 77 | 
PUSHPANJALI 


Be Be Be Be We Be Be WE 


DAS DIGPALA POOJAN 
% WF sara TI | 
YT wey THe | 
OF TT TH | 
Be Het Te 
% 
yo 
7] 
7] 


PUSHPANJALI 
INDRADIK POOJAN 
FT TaTT THe | 
% oT Tara TH | 
Go F quer 7A | 
% GF are He ! 


MANGAL KAVACH AND MANGAL YANTRA 487 


7 qome we | 

H HEMT THe | 
7 yard TA | 

EY Bryeaer 7s | 
T year THe | 
aT Tere TAs | 

PUSHPANJALI 


Be Be Be Ge Ve Ke 


NAIVEDYA: after Aavaran pooja offer sweets, gur, wheat etc. 


AACHMAN. Offer water thereafter. Thus after doing shodashopchar 
poojan, argha, that is offering of water to Mangal Dev, should be done. 


ARGHA: Take water and put roli, red flower, sugar, red sandal and 
money therein. Offer this water over Mangal Yantra with absolute faith 
and devotion. 


3% ytigr verte aekga Prater | 
gard rorrar Teroret Targa | | 
CHIT FETT ANGY? aHTy | 
welyd Werarel Teroreet TARGET | | 


After argha, pradakshina i.e. parikarama of Mangal yantra should be 
done and 21 names of Mars should be pronounced while perambulating 
around Afangal Yantra. 
Draw three lines on the ground with the help ofa piece of kher wood, 
thereafter rub these lines by speaking out the following mantras: 
goer eater mers gareard eat | 
GRAAL WT Wediequryser | | 
ao ase Frama = warsdreeret Pree | 
ARR PORTA THAMES | | 


PUSHPANJALI 


% eoert wy fret we TR / 
BU Mat BT T ATT TOTRTET | | 
aMEr TRET serene aber | 
PUPTATTTT TaD BIR | | 
GIRTITRIATE UAH TTT | 


488 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


Ge ata aaa TH efor eat! | 

MeaemrTI FO free Tereshr | 

qhords oa aad Tea TA | | 

THe Ret MY TTTIS TTA | 

AY aeT waTyArale IT Tee | | 
Thereafter Brahman bhojan and appropriate dakshina to them is essen- 
tial without which anusthan will remain incomplete. If the whole process 


is done without the help of any Pandit, even then Dakshina ie. some 
money should be given to a Pandit. 


PURASHCHARAN 


Worship of Mangal Dev Yantra should be done likewise. Recite the 
Vedic mantra of Mars for 40,000 times. At many places where the 
adversity is so threatening that even the death may take place, the 
recitation of 6 lakh mantras of Mars has been advocated by few acharya 
for a complete Purashcharan. 

To make the yantra one should get up early in the morning (Bramha 
Muhurt) on any Tuesday. After one finishes his routine works, one 
should make the yantra with pomegranate pen and with ashta gandh on 
bhojpatra as given below. 


Tatler fesarer vane ao Want wat war Alaerer/ 
wre wa ead feend afpend vache wat! | 


Nine squares are made, then in the first row, 8, 3, 10 are written 
respectively. In the second row, 9, 7, 5 and in the third row, 4, 11, 6 
are written respectively. On adding any of three digits in a row, column 
or diagonal, the total comes to 21. 


aadte! a étaed afio: a afieda: / 

famreeetaa sat eta: a cla: ada 11 
According to Acharya Chanakya no one can be called impecu- 
nious in the want of money, because knowledge is the real 
wealth, not the money and material. The basis of poverty is the 
deficiency of wealth of knowledge or education. Therefore one 
must yearn to acquire knowledge and not money. 


CHAPTER 5.6 


VRAT: A REMEDY FOR 
MARITAL MALADIES 


Y Prat is one of the most significant, simple, facile and a traditional 
l/ way of rectification of various kinds of maladies. If a planet is 
V adversely placed in a birth chart, the gems of the planet will 
enhance the adversity of that planet for e.g. if Mars is placed in any of 
the sensitive houses giving rise to Kuja dosha, wearing of coral or 
Moonga must not be advised as that will enhance the intensity of Kuja 
dosha. In such case vrat, donation and prayer are the only way to 
eliminate or curtail the adverse effects of the concerning planet. 
Generally in our country, innumerable persons both male and female 
observe vrat but they don't know many important factors to be adopted 
during the observation of vrat. Here we will explain the process of 
observation of a vrat thoroughly, so that one can get the best results of 
the vrat in shape of accomplishment of ambitions. 
In this chapter we will know about some specific vrats for the 
elimination of Kuja dosha, such as 


1. Mangal vrat 

2. Mangala Gauri vrat 
3. Vat Savitri vrat 

4. Sacred Gauri vrat 


All these are time-tested remedies, which are followed by a large 


490 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


number of people, afflicted with Kuja dosha in their birth charts, to get 
the blessings of the Almighty for a happy and prosperous conjugal life. 


Essentials of Vrat: 


There are four important segments, which are quintessential for the 
orderly performance of vrat and to derive the maximum benefit. These 
are 

1. Faith and Dedication 


2. Sankalp 
3. Fasting 
4. Udyapan 
[. FAITH and DEDICATION: 


The first and most important prerequisite of vrat is faith. A vrat will 
be fruitless without faith and belief in its efficacy. The ordained vrat 
should be undertaken with full faith and belief that the God or Goddess 
so evoked would be pleased by one's reverence. Vrat means to dedicate 
your particular day to the deity. One has to pass the day with full 
dedication, sincerity and faith in Almighty God, or Goddess. He should 
be pious, honest and simple with absolute involvement in spiritual and 
religious thinking and devotion. 


2. SANKALP: 


One should purify oneself with a good cleansing bath and wear clean 
inner garments and apparels on the proposed day. The subject should 
face either north or east direction and undertake the oath of vrat or 
'sankalp' according to following steps: - 

Sankalp or pledge is commitment to do a particular thing and should 
be undertaken following the following procedure: 

First Step: Face North or East direction and take water, rice, whole 
betel nut, money and flowers in hand. 


Second Step: Identify the person, place and time i. e. one should 
speak his name, his father's /her husband's name along with the gotra. 
Specify the time i. e. date, day, Samvat, month Paksha and "Nakshatra", 
and then specify the place i. e. the city, village or town where one is 
observing the vrat. 

Third Step: State the name of the vrat and the name of God or 
Goddess connected with the vrat. This should be followed by stating the 
special wish or objective for performing the vrat. 


VRAT: A REMEDY FOR MARITAL MALADIES 49) 


At UP SITE aa: 

(waz | WHEL) 
% fpyfyylyoy: % zahtd MAYBE ACTA EH AA 
Varararaavwes aVataal eer feate- vie 
PLATT AUAAT CUA HEX Hee AMertaareliewee 
earwrsparlenrasaeiyyl wet Aaa Paxraaneacae? 


ea-Val-arve wlausmar wayurar wed wa'arat 
aelicsiladH wleagal ATAXALS ATTTAMAET CAT- 
HALE LAVST CANAL ARITHENM A APZRTG ATT 
ata aileuleelsi1: wilad-veavlax siizvaaor’ 
HIUTAAI GAN A-Blel? Bel T-F%wr-T aA E- 
MAMMALIA RPHYH? HYP - - ~TITE HYB- - -ATH 
HYB- - ~wotqol shlaeey TAA IDATIRLAA TA: = WAB- ~ 
-HeMUlHa TAAHATAACH! THAUEMTOTAFARTIOL: «AER 
HYD- - -TTH AFIT? HYB- - - HT RAYB- - -Rel 
HYB- - -ATAHYB- - -wal aye - -feiel HYB- - 
-aTe? Hayw- - -Tet waw- - -atat WaB- - -weor 
aye - -wzhilesd yf staw- - -wRiheidace HAP- 
- -whihteiddeaye sity wey we weal UWRTEMARAATZ 
wey Ca wequiterdlvoTleRrero HYB- - -WTSET 
HYB- - -LHVISEY HYPEL FUSE ACHBISE AATCHA: 
GUTEGTAGUON GA BA-TICIM HA AACA-TWCAALAP Hay 
were HIeerelsd earile-HBIT Re Tiawen? 


CIVBlIATTEIMA  AGTaAMeHINI CAE AA EXTUTS 


VYCUAVICIN TART? HATH TUTEE WAAL VI CTL 
FINUAA PATA A OCALA GLE YFAIMAD A SE er [er 
AeHIFIC AL HEIVSAP ITIL FUEL GIN CAET 


aulteresirenlaawegriaitver- faarenttA APAAACA- 


492 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


BTAM AML [AH CPHICIAN HY - ~eaM TPA: 
HYD - -TIy HEY Bled / 


It is important that process of pledge is performed for undertaking 
every kind of vrat. This is called 'sankalp' in which one promises or 
pledges for observing vrat for any particular day. In short it is a 
commitment to the god or goddess that I (full identity), on this day, will 
observe the vrat till evening for the accomplishment of 'this’ particular 
wish. The "sankalp' can be taken in any language but preferably in 
Sanskrit. Those who do not know Sanskrit can pronounce sankalp in 
any language for the convenience. 

After Sankalp and other pooja activities one should always touch 
the spot of ground where he/she sat, after removing the Aasan or mat, 
with both hands and then put it on the forehead otherwise the major part 
of the effect of the worship and vrat will go to Indradeva. 


3. FASTING 


Generally any kind of meal is avoided during vrat. In present era our 
sages allow us to take to the little and special food without any kind 
of salt, only once in a day so that routine activities may not be disturbed 
and one may not experience physical weakness. The little food ie. 
“alpaahar” is taken only to provide essential strength and energy to the 
body, and not for taste. In most of the vrat the usage of salt has been 
prohibited because it determines the taste of the food. 


4. UDYAPAN OF VRAT 


Udyapan means to make prayers, at the time of completion of the total 
duration of Vrat, for accomplishment of ambitions and to beg excuse 
for the mistakes, errors and shortcomings that would have occurred 
during Vrats. Vrat is to be commenced after persistent thinking and after 
making a strong determination and if it gets discontinued due to one or 
the other reason that becomes futile until unless Udyapan is done. 
Udyapan is a particular & specific process of worship of the concerning 
deity at the moment of completion of Vrat as suggested by sages and 
saints in various texts such as Vratrk. 

Vrat is observed for fulfillment of any desire or wish. Udyapan is 
mostly done when we offer thanks to the deity for the blessing we 
received and desire gets fulfilled as an outcome. After shodshopchar 
poojan i. e, sixteen-fold worship, one must beg excnse for any known 
or unknown shortcomings and faults, which might have occurred during 
the duration of Vrat. 


VRAT: A REMEDY FOR MARITAL MALADIES 493 


Norms of Vrat: 
The norms of vrat should be followed in advance and during the vrat. 


* Normal meals should be taken the previous evening and in case 
of married ladies, as well as males, there should be a complete 
abstinence from sexual acts the day preceding and following the 
vrat period. Otherwise the vrat will be blemished. 

¢ The person observing vrat should not sit or lie down on the bed 
during the vrat. Even the touch of other's clothes should be 
avoided. 

¢ Vrat should be observed by those persons who are truthful, honest, 
kind hearted, religious, wise and sincere. 

¢ For females it has been rightly said: - 


aka Al yaaa Id aryvyyy | 
wd .awadal = el ei fereerer wale fe |/ 


Tt means, that a woman should serve her husband only. She should 
neither observe any vrat nor she should perform any worship without 
the consent of her husband. A woman can get heaven etc. only by serving 
her husband and being loyal towards him. No worships, religious yagya 
or vrat is more important for woman than serving her husband. 


¢ Women should not take the oath for a vrat in case they are 
undergoing menstruation but if the menstrual cycle unexpectedly 
beings for some reason after the pledging or during the vrat, the 
vrat should be completed as pledged by them. 

¢ Vrat should neither be started nor be closed within three days of 
the rise or combustion of Venus and Jupiter for getting best and 
early results. 


Wares? ATALA WTA APIA | 
-eUaT ae 
Before commencement of any vrat, worship of Ganpati, Matrika and 
Panchdevta, must be done and thereafter Nandi Shradh should be 
performed. A small statue of the deity, for whom vrat is undertaken, 


should be got prepared in gold. Thereafter Shodashopchar Poojan of the 
deity should be done. 


© wal YX: Yeeros arated? NATL Ts 
WAMATABTAY Bre * Waseda: || 


494 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


If one can not observe vrat due to some problem or obstruction or 
because of being on journey one should get it done through his or 
her representative, husband, wife, elder son, Purohit, brother or friend. 
If none of these is available, vrat can be got done by Brahmins. 


¢ Before breaking the fast in the evening, one should sit on an 
"Aasan" (mat) and concentrate on God or Goddess invoked and 
repeat one's wish and the fact that one observed vrat on such a 
date and for such a purpose and that now one is breaking the vrat. 
One should plead forgiveness for any mistakes that may have been 
committed during the vrat. 


Precautions during the Vrat: 


During the vrat of Tuesday or in any vrat following precautions are 

prescribed. 

1. wrearg varereelerg a waar sradg ale | 
feama a asatd ||. 

In Garud Puran, it is stated that those, who observe vrat, should 
always keep in mind that there should not be any loss of temper, laziness, 
greediness and attraction etc. during the vrat otherwise the vrat will be 
violated. In that case, one should not eat meals for three consecutive days 
and should start the vrat thereafter again. 

2. The person should remain silent as much as possible, should 
especially not converse with an atheist, disbeliever, a critic of the vrat, 
a contemptous person or with women who are menstruating. The person 
should avoid common gossip, anger, jealousy, hatred, criticism etc. He 
should not lie or sleep at all during the vrat, prayers etc. otherwise the 
vrat will automatically be violated. 

3, HUGETAR WAT MALATILA HHA | 

svar. ywyevta fearearvea =Aezertre || 
In Vishnu Puran, it has been mentioned that one should not drink water 
again and again or sleep during daytime or eat tobacco or beetles during 
vrat. One should also not indulge in any kind of sexual act during vrat 
otherwise the vrat will be broken. Vrat may also get broken by repeatedly 
drinking water or juice etc. 

4. Meals may not be taken altogether or may be taken only once 
a day during vrat but that too in company of one of the same generation, 
or after setting apart meals for Brahmin. Eating of betel, nuts, chocolates, 
mouth fresheners and any kind of tasty food, even if it does not contain 


VRAT: A REMEDY ROR MARITAL MALADIES 495 


salt or cereals, is strictly prohibited, It is so because only little food is 
taken to maintain routine strength for work. 

5. Sleeping is normally prohibited during vrat. 

6. And as far as possible the person should pray the God or 
Goddess invoked and read good and purifying literature etc. One should 
mediate and think about God. 

If by any mischance, any of those rules are broken, the vrat can be 
started again by making due amendments etc., by donating money, 
clothes, fruits, flowers, grains etc. (The original rule of amendments has 
been prescribed as donation of a cow and gold.) 

It is very difficult for a normal working person to undergo a 24-hour 
vrat these days, so it may be substituted by vrat that is only up to the 
evening. Whatever be the case, it is necessary that the vrat is undergone 
and completed with full adherence to the rules and regulations, if at all 
undertaken. 

Undertaking a vrat means that you are pledging to the God or 
Goddess that you would be concentrating or praying, with virtuous 
thoughts, avoiding all sorts of indulgence, including food and water. It 
is dedication to the God or Goddess of your faith and belief with 
complete devotion. 

Our Rishis and sages had foreseen the mental status and 
intellectual inclination, education, dedication, discipline, faith, concen- 
tration, pronunciation and other aspects of the natives of Kaliyug. They 
have prescribed very easy as well as very tough mantra and stotra etc. 
for different categories of the natives based on their knowledge, 
merits and abilities to read, recite and perform the same. They have 
given a very easy and simple remedy, which can be obtained by 
sincere adherence and that is vrat. But, however, vrat is commonly 
advised to them who have strong faith and will, but they cannot read 
text in Sanskrit. 

Vrat can be observed even by those who have language problem or 
by those who are highly educated but due to difference in culture, their 
pronunciation in Sanskrit is incorrect. Vrat can also be kept by those who 
can read and recite mantra and stotra and they further want to get quick 
results and can also afford to keep Vrat in addition to adhering to 
remedies in the form of mantras and stotra. 


Some points to remember 


Before proceeding further towards the details of specific vrats, we 
are enumerating, even at the cost of some repetition, few important and 


496 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


essential points which should be remembered and followed by all during 
observance of Vrat: - 

1. There must be a feeling of true and absolute dedication towards 
the concerning deity, that is Almighty. The day of Vrat is not just to keep 
* fast or to eat nothing but is a day of living with pious minds and deeds. 
A day is dedicated to the deity. One surrenders him and goes in the shelter 
of concerning power for his or her blessings for the accomplishment of 
ambitions. One should eat little so that routine may not be disturbed but 
the food should be pions i.e. 'Satvik' and ‘Sookshma’. 

2. Women are advised not to observe vrat during menstrual 
periods. Most important vrat of Karva Chauth should also not be 
observed during the period of impurity. Sages have very strictly stressed 
this point. One should otherwise donate 380 cows with mounting of gold 
on their horns. If the sankalp has been taken, vrat should be completed. 
If menstrual periods begin after sankalp has been taken and the mantra 
of prayaschit (repentance) should be done when the menstrual period is 
over. 

3. If possible, cleaning of teeth with toothpaste made of chemicals 
is also not advisable. 

4. One should not meet any woman who is having menstrual 
periods if this fact is known. * 

5. One should not make a contact with any corrupt male or female, 
if known. 

6. One should utilize his time by reading books or magazines on 
religious or sacred subjects or by listening to or chanting bhajan etc. One 
should not read any murder mystery or romantic novels, books, stories 
and one should also avoid such type of serial on television so that the 
purity of mind may not be disturbed even for a short period. 

7. Evening meal as prescribed in various vrats should be taken with 
the person of equal status such as husband, wife, brother, sister, sister- 
in-law etc. but not with mother, father, son, daughter or parents-in-law. 
Pucca bhojan like paratha, sabji, should be prepared. However, in the 
evening meals of vrars other than Tuesdays, only one cereal should be 
taken as food though there may be several vegetables. 

8. In the vrat on Tuesdays, one should take sweet food, fruits, milk 
etc. during 12 noon to 3 PM. Choorma is the best intake for the Tuesday. 

9. The commencement and ending any vrat is the toughest task. 
No vrat should be started or finished abruptly and it should not be closed 
without proper procedure. Otherwise, the subject will have to suffer the 
curse of concerning deity. Any vrat should be commenced only after firm 


VRAT: A REMEDY FOR MARITAL MALADIES 497 


faith, appropriate advice of any competent and meritorious astrologer. 
Only a good astrologer should do the selection of suitable vrat. Essentials 
as mentioned above should be followed during vrat. Generally, the vrat 
should be stopped only after the fulfilment ofdesires. However, the vrat 
can be closed due to any other reason, if it becomes imperative. But vrat 
should never be stopped without proper procedure, which is called 
Udyapan. Udyapan is to pray and thank the deity and offer your 
obeisance at the feet of concerning deity for the fulfillment of ambitions 
and to beg excuse for shortcomings, errors, and faults in worship. This 
is done after comprehensive shodshopchar poojan of the deity for which 
any standard book of vrat can be referred. 

Vrats are of several kinds and all of them cannot be discussed here, 
however, the brief explanation of the concept of vrat should clear the 
understanding of vrat. Vrat are very effective if undertaken properly and 
definitely prove fruitful. Besides, using them to pacify planets, please 
Gods and Goddesses and to attain a special desire, vrats are also very 
effective when used as preventive measures against evils and impending 
misfortunes etc.-Selection of appropriate and suitable Vrat is not a tough 
job. Mostly the Vrat of Tuesdays is required to be observed by all mangli 
women and men. In this Vrat intake of salt is absolutely prohibited. Vrat 
on Tuesdays is also observed for Mangala Gauri in addition to placate 
evil martial configuration. 


Mangal Vrat: 


Mangali persons or those who are suffering from the evils of Mars 
regarding the absence of conjugal bliss owing to any reason, or the 
possibility of loss of life of the partner or separation, or otherwise those 
who are leading miserable married life due to the adversity of Mars must 
observe vrat on Tuesday in the following way: - 

First of all shodasashopchar Poojan of Mars should be done as 
explained above with full faith, devotion and dedication. 

Certain specification, norms, methods and stories have been men- 
tioned in various texts on vrats. Here we will be discussing all-important 
points of mangal vrat i.e. observation of vrat on Tuesdays. A wrong 
concept in the society is prevalent the females should not observe mangal 
vrat because this vrat is only for Hanumanji. Since Hanumanji was a 
bal brahmachari therefore the curse of Hanumanji may burn the lady if 
she worships him or keeps vrat on Tuesdays. This misconception is really 
suicidal. We want to draw the attention of such readers that vrat on 
Tuesday does not mean the vrat of Hanumanji. Mangal vrat may be 


498 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


observed to please Mangal graha, Mata Durga or any of her in carnation, 
and to please Hanumanji as well. 

Mangal vrat is observed almost in the same way except the primary 
worship of the concerning deity. Specific stories will be different in 
various cases of Mangal Vrat. if Vrat is being observed to placate Mangal 
Graha, the story will be different than if the Vrat is being observed for 
Mangala Gauri or any other deity. Here we are mostly concerned with 
the vrat on Tuesdays to prevent the adversity cast by planet Mars. The 
girls or ladies who are suffering or may suffer due to the evil effects 
of Mars in their birth charts or if they have Kuja dosha and get married 
with a non-Mangali boy, must observe vrat on Tuesdays. 

If the Kuja Dosha does not get properly balanced in the horoscope 
of bride or bridegroom, they suffer a lot in the following aspects of life. 

1- Prosperity and progress gets checked and financial problems 
become grave due to which marital happiness gets hampered. 

2- Health of the life partner remains questionable. Mental depression 
may also arise to either of the partner and the feeling of well being may 
lack. 

3- The couple may suffer in respect of children. Either there will 
be denial or children will not survive or they will be cause of worry for 
the native. > 

4 Death of either of the partner or permanent disability due to 
accidents or mishaps, the widowhood etc. may be the outcome of 
marriage of Mangali and non-Mangali bride and bridegroom. 

Vrat on Tuesday may be observed both by male or female alike. Now 
we will discuss all about the vrat on Tuesday as suggested by our sages. 
This will curtail or eliminate the adversities of Kuja Dosha and other 
evils of Mars such as problems connected with health, enemy, court 
cases, deaths, poverty, accidents, blood pressure, opposition, destruction 
and defeat of rivals, lands, houses, wounds, children birth. abortions and 
miss carriages, still births, miserable married life etc. 

The Sankalp should be taken by keeping rice, water, betel nut, 
flowers and money in the right palm facing towards east or worth. 
Thereafter the contents in the hand should be put in front of Ganapati 
Devta. 

After Sankalp Shodshophar poojan of Ganpati and Mangal Graha 
is essential. Without Ganpati pooja, the native is not bestowed with the 
good results. This is well-established fact that Agrapooja of Ganpati is 
most essential before offering any other worship to the conceming 
powers of planets or God. 


VRAT: A REMEDY FOR MARITAL MALADIES 499 


For further clarification and understanding about the Mangal Vrat, 

we are giving here under Mangal Vrar Vidhaanam - 
HA ANA Ta Yaor later 

OF WH: A A:, A HO BT WSHe AoT By 

feleralay - wee tf aoa wsee Hover True ule: , 
aad gag, eteicHalr euat ar atay, & vile:, 
favatlagrracgrtiat? (ararae #wUTE Pe, 
arencrenirercaa’ a) at fefrareT: / 

wereileora - % freed aa: Rieti, mWeaxtscHt 
aa yea Mericonacaaad wal ele, at erarroral YE, 
empilaH: eal-, talerarary rH: Havas 

BY RTA - % HAST TH: | ET AH ATIATAR: + F HE 
AATINITDA: | A: HAUIMBIIL AA: | A BlALGBIFA! AA: / 
Wi: BCAADY GI AH: | SH VOICE FATA Bros PS WE 
WAIAT Be / - 

WAG - ABATRUFTE: AABYTHIA: | AGA AVAL 
ave: FMTETTA: / 

W HIGH TH: SH AAA HTAEA GS lav AA TC HAA 
Bisal ale All PUMA BE HATHA, WH, HEL HATAHE, 
we, TeX, Wel, eu, goule we yao wear alee see” 
8 x eeare aa: | HF free wares HZ , Crear? aves 
oe € &€ waa F % FH: a ne ee 
HEM BE" FHA USN VR BES Waavaen lardea Brat GS 
we 21 wee are Pero AEX BI PHM: YHT BES ALAT- 


% amerra aa: wel yoru 1/ % xyfeyza wa: 
MEA? YHA 2) H RUT TH: HE Laue 3/ H e€ 
vera aa: wel youl 4/ % feorererarea wae eT 
yoru 5S;  mETeTATL THA: Fe: Yuuly 6/ H 
wdeataceaEia we: aHag yaule 7/ 8 % aatlearr 
aa: eemage gray 8/ 2 alfearear TH: Ba GoralA 
9/ % mA PETAL rH: AM yaa 10/ He 
AIA TH: ALTE YAMA 11/ HY BAI AH: PIB 
yauty 121 % starr aa: were Gara 13/ % otererer 


Be 


$00 AN INSIGHT INTO KuJa DosHa 


wH: salve? yaa 14/ % ofHareeala aa: Aedes 
yaaa 15) % Hoeera aa: Prat FaxarH 16; 
ware aH: sage yaaty 19/ $ geet aa: aeortle 
weaered youl 20/; % aud@eraeavera an: eer: 
Goran / 

Ba Wer ASAE Aaer-AeX Bl Yaar Be Calealaen 
lrdqa eee ya: alal wlury AF wae: - 

"9 GBIL TA: | HHL AH: | FH aloverrer aa: 1” 
swe yao wear aller! gale wraen eT viele - "Hate 
tulsa @fe ervolimaacHa/ siear wave aw 
GATT ANA AA | SAIS WE WEL PS BlGHE HA PH: FH 
vere You wear arfev well - © ated aH: 1 H Aeoad 
wa: /) % Bart wa: / % Peach aH: SH arere? HH: 1 
% sogrd aa + 3H aRVs(P aH: § $% AETeLE TY oA: / 


Bw Vere Yaa wee age! Hae Yaa wl Vidtat we- 
"sitter tile # ele erenradacia/ sea, HATA Gre 
AGM ACUAAH |“ SAP WE WE BS SA RIG BI YT 
Be yell - % goal AA: | H AdaAL TH: | H% TATA TH: / 
% fermad aH: ) © were TH: | H ara aA: | % MATT 
TH: | Y STATA TH: | YH TET A: | H HoT TA: / 

wife - "Hite tele A BE eOTAMACHA / HEAT 
RAT. GRE TAATACUTATH / “ 

Hoa F Bad HTAT Hl Yaa wear alevys wat - "FH 
TAIL TH: | H cee TH: H FVSTA HH: / H We TH: | 
% HBA TH: / % werd TH: 1 H Pryara aH: s  F 
UGHTY TH: | H welTy aA: 1“ 

wie - Helfeatiles Wale MUMIA AAT AT 

JOU YUCOTAMTAAR / 
BY vere “amar wore atharia” Yaar Be T-Te 
add warty we (aaa # Baa MW Zeal HT vawe) wet 
YO ATH-UIal AW vee-eege T-YU HAT HIT CA SP AIA 
youl Cw we wet ear alers HEA ea BT AeT - 


VRAT: A REMEDY FOR MARITAL MALADIES 501 


% afrye asid@a: edelgaleratlea: + Persea 
vuaise yeryred waleg @// 
UW-VMACPIL AUBYAAH / HEZA AHEvaTE? Yerorted! 

aaleg @ // 

BY ve@re wed eee wer S 21 ara ala Lrweroy # Feet 
aal Bt ad Ev 21 are velo awle Vora Beart alevs 
agacae we ef aad ES aAwsl S afro aT A HVT 
ware? yfe Te ala’ 3 dear ware Fe aa Ve wh Hox Wed 
av (er ear arlevs 
Wey - Fe ealoa area Yaeaeda/ PA PaATTA 
GAUEH ALATRIVIAEA / 

wurg- malas nalssiterestiged + ara aratTar 
PAAR eA ZIEPRAT: / / 
wea 8 yours aoe Telar welt alevs 
WHAT - 

acninsaya fagta: HATHA) BATT he we T 
ANA TATE / 

MUED waren Eg: wera / TAL WAATATL 
VADEMTPILY / 
@a-GTIA- MEM A-ARI GL A- THAT: | Ye ulead ATEAER 
al exelrga4d / 
aw amlaanrtat gat freargacclas Yall Yaa ier 
aee eared ora: + 
VUe Be A AM ANAVE ANA! ATAEAPTCAL 
yxwogles eer AV / 

Cd TAC AT, VIYACGHMY YATE / LACE BOTT MTT 
ad Burg yar 

1/1 Bla ReanElee? Wsaee ara Aeerdalaler// 


Bw mex wf grace? wala we ate UgTel BU TATE GT HVE 
WU WH CET Bl GIT SHE HATA HAA BEAL AT TIETT 
wl stra ale eott alee) ser Werte SCC TIA ATLAS 
Bw ad Bl Boe ate we fers Bt ate Te wlafe AMA Te 


Bl JUTE BE 50 aleve wl alae BAT AleV/ 


502 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


After Sankalp, Shodshouphar Poojan and Prathna etc. Aarti of 
Mangal Devtaa should be sung with devotion and concentration. 

Now the Vrat should be commenced and during Vrat one should 
always remember important points of Vrat as mentioned earlier. These 
precautions are essential in each and every Vrat such as Brahmcharya 
(abstinence), avoiding nap in the day, anger or any activities of making 
love and hatred etc. Avoid touching anyone, avoid taking much water 
or juice or any tasteful eatable, and avoid reading horror, detective or 
sexual books and such conversation as well. 

During Mangal Vrat one may take a glass of milk, tea or juice in 
the moming after the above sankalp and worship etc. Thereafter one 
should take “Choorma™ (made of wheat flour and jaggery) between 12 
noon to 3 p.m. One should not forget that only a small quantity to subside 
the hunger should be taken and not full stomach like other days. If one 
does not want to take Choorma due to any reason one may eat sweet 
fruits or sweets instead. The salt of any kind is strictly prohibited in 
Mangal Vrat. Any fruit, which contains salt, should not be taken. 

After completing the Vrat one should sing Aarti of Mars before going 
to bed. If it is very essential one may take one or two fruits after Aarti 
and before going to bed. 

Mangal Vrat should be observed for at least one year. But the Vrat 
can be extended for 5 years or for whole of the life as advised by Guru 
or Acharya or by any competent astrologer. After completing the Vrat 
of Mars, udyapan is required. It means that the devotee is terminating 
the mangal vrat now onwards. He begs pardon for his mistakes and 
donates to Brahmins and does lot of prayer. 


HTACA UTA 
MAH FATA 
survatater glk aa wer Weeae // 
va sida wad gel AETysad //\\\ 
HMA FATT 
facial Huse: AFTAECATATTA: / 
wiflscar werd: BIL EtAwoT THIAA! (12/1 
HUSA F Vou ATAS AwAVgC: / 
yatwler wz oratlr muse Fata Ad: //311 


votastrBeiay agéaleady 7s 
CPITUMABFANLEH FUTUNA AEM: 1/411 


VRAT: A REMEDY FOR MARITAL MALADIES 503 


want wer ar wdivdg waerwees 
way wader yada Bye: ears /5// 
aRoaxgedla xetor sla walecarera: / 
adaedtd gra ferwearerd Barge Ad: //6// 
wy wade aaa WaT / 
wart a We? gg Ylytl YTS //7// 
EH Gg are? A AETHTATE Tel / 
WABTAVE? L HA AE WAT //8// 
wltal seauleda calleareed PvP / 
HER aeyatonT A MIAMAL PUSHY /9// - 
aTHna AKeIa Sa L TaTKe/ 
sia aeewe a oleae satedenrs/10s// 
afynerarara Ay AFYHAg WAT / 
He Rrealar g WH w Bad AISI 
WAT METALS wyatq / 
oer afepale TEATeHEETAT // 12/7 
ward wi wyoulslt AAPITCAVE: / 
ba weve ATTY ware Moerlealsewaa / 11311 
sodeltaeld layree Fale BHT] ATAPI / 
oat’ ata Ware Frat LY A-ATPTA//14// 
wd fadetq Wa aed aw ofatemd: / 
alge walgq wea: At FYTA ary //15// 
GATES -SCL-PUNT FAT Ba AAT: / /16// 


sla atiqgayeda waedalarva =AeFeCrH 


mae at & wet fe, # Weed! He ANAT S 
curva af fats xewt ave waeses fae sarvalafe 
eS aa aat 2 Hae BI BUT El s/ts/ 

agea al a Bel -~ & Mat wt, HIS BI BI HvSY 
trata we, sa HUST B Hex ve BI wt wilrsa (ae) 
frafo wets /2// sad zee (aa), wad a AL Hvsy 
ward / Fa wvsy H wees wale? EV 21 alal AH yaar 
Bes /3// sae sela Blal A seta ara-Heal BT Za 
wey ate art feat 2 are ae waitlta BPs sass 
sax weet we gaol of Hea Was wifta FIs watz 


504 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


ae am ate wee yuteerd your ae yaa BES // 
wae ae we wf aasl af "aforaefo’ sa Hex A 
108 are Higlt Tera Bey ae WH wal feowral wt atgfle 
@II6/1 He He ala-Heml A SH VRIE HIYA Bes 
"AOAIE WH: BEST Ae Bl Yat Be, "alagxrr 
aay: “ GEE YET HIT BI YAT BE /7// "RET oa: “ 
wt afr wl, "AET@ICTY HH: “ BAH AAT "ALPTATEA 
ay: “ @ #4? aga wl yaa Be 18// "alleara ae: “ 
w@ are, “ealleare(a aa: & pve Bi, ATH Brot 
aad w Pu eid ale "ATAATA mH: “ sad Hea Lar 
BEI III/ "LAURA fH: “ a allie VE "BATE Aa: “ 
w@ eal axa we yar Bes Sal were "aTATA aa: “ 
ww ate-aete 8 "afaTa ae: “ & ster BT, 
"BIMTCETA TH: A Ave BE LAT BY, ” HITCEIL 
aa: “ @ “"Rreqd? awa” Be, sal TeEIT "ATL AA: “ 
ae "paar EB” ae "aAderarwed za: “ ab "TATE CE” 
aw were @8, “aleet aa: ” 2 HTeIe, "TEX Aa: “ 
we etd, "“NE@IACATTEY FH: “ # Has BI YT BPs 
Ba vere Hel oF ya Be Jae ae weer aile A 
yer BI /10-13// agoare setH aes BT HTaT GIST 
Toe WT PB WA Sl VET BI) IAS AWE HTATHY Bl 
yao Be ate Jee wos whe ATL Welt BE /14// 
ale wuantia @ waar wl aller le aE wae AIST 
ed Wa aad BP velar Bey ale sara sa Ta BF 
yr weaa BI HIRaTE HET BE/IS// HE Kaa 
(der-xilea?) 2 atx weet 8 ae wt Tae ala 
Bree alate BE /16// 

sw ver sxrare UWesa af Rrae Pre erretiea 

srmicier wea anadd @ szarva-lahr HATE! 


MANGALA GAURI VRAT 


Mangala Gauri Vrat is very common in Maharashtra. This Vrat should 
be observed by married women so that they may never suffer widow- 
hood; so that they may ever enjoy the association of their husbands and 
may lead a pleasant and happy married life. Women who observe 
Mangala Gauri Vrat, their husband are dedicated to them. They are loyal 


VRAT: A REMEDY FOR MARITAL MALADIES 505 


towards their wives and never try to seek any kind of physical pleasure 
elsewhere. The women whose sponses are disloyal and go to other ladies 
must observe Mangala Gauri Vrat. They will experience the change in 
their husbands soon after. 

The vrat should be observed for five years on each and every 
Tuesday commencing from first Tuesday of Sravana. After successful 
completion of five years of Mangala Gauri Vrat, the same may be 
observed on Tuesdays of Sravana Maas only i.e. 4 times in a year during 
the month of Sravana only. 

First of all Sthapana of Mangala Gauri should be dine. Navgraha 
and Matrikaa Kalash etc should also be properly placed/at the place of 
worship keeping the face towards north. Shodoshopchar Poojan should 
be done of all these including Mangala Gauri. This poojan is like any 
other poojan as mentioned in Vashisthi Hawan Paddhati. Shodas Matrikaa 
Poojan should be done with full and correct process. In the end worship 
of Mangala Gauri is done. Thereafter take sankalp for Mangala Ganri 
Vrat. 

Thereafter the story Mangala Gauri Vrat is read or heard. After 
completing the worship and story of Mangala Ganri get up from the 
Aasan, the mat, touch the ground by hand and then tonch your forehead. 
Thereafter take the Prasad. 

As regards the story of Mangala Ganri Vrat, there are a few stories 
in vogue. In one story Sarvan Kumar asks Shiv and Shiv narrates the 
story of importance and fruits of the Mangala Gauri Vrat. In other story 
Lord Krishna tells the story to Yudhisthir about Mangala Ganri Vrat. Any 
of the stories as available in the market may be read. 

After completing the Sankalp, worship of Mangal Gauri, touch the 
ground after removing the mat or Aasan and touch your forehead. 

Mangala Gauri Vrat is very fruitful for Mangal Graha to prevent 
widowhood or unhappy conjugal life and after Mangali Dosha shanti. 
Those who are desirous for son or grandson, they may also observe 
Mangal Gauri Vrat. 


VAT SAVITRI VRAT 


This is the most useful, common and well-known vrat for the long and 
healthy life of husband. Mangali girls and married mangali women must 
observe this vrat for everlasting conjugal bliss. This prevents widow- 
hood. This vrat is observed from Amavasya day of the month of Jyestha. 
In this vrat, worship of the tree of Bargad or Vat Virksha is performed. 
It is the strongest tree, which has a very long life. This is the reason 


506 AN INSIGHT INIO KUJA DOSHA 


that worship of vat vriksha is done by women and they prey for healthy 
and long life of their husband like that of Vat Vrksha. 

First of all the girl should prepare small spherical sweets by frying 
them. Honey should be mixed in wheat flour and as many as 108 round 
shaped sweets should be made and thereafter they should be fried. The 
shape and size of these sweets should be similar to fruits of Vat Vriksha. 
They should be poured in a thread like a garland. Poori and Halwa should 
also be made for prasad. Water soaked grams (bheega hua desi chana) 
should also be included in the prasad. Take a container, keep the garland 
of fried small sweets, poori, halwa and grains along with roli, sindoor, 
rice, flowers, ghee, dhoop, deep, camphor, red cloth, gur, haldi, various 
sweets and money etc. One should go to Vat Virksha taking this container 
along with water in any vessel. Stem of the Vat Vriksha should be 
properly washed and shodshopchar i.e. 16 fold worship must be done. 
First of all the earthen lamp of pure ghee should be lighted thereafter 
shodshopchar poojan should be performed one by one as mentioned 
earlier in this chapter. 

After shodshoupehar poojan and worship, prayers should be made 
by the women for their Akhand Saubhagya i.e. long life of the husband. 
The woman should take sankalp for the prosperity, popularity, happiness, 
peace, conjugal bliss and long life of the husband. Vat Savitri Vrat Katha 
should be read or heard thereafter. After observing the Vrat for whole 
of the day, the lady should take sweets and fruits or meal with one cereal. 
After completing the vrat in this worship of Vat Savitri Vrar, 'Bayana' 
should also be taken out and should be given to mother-in-law or sister- 
in-law, tf they are available. If they are not available, bayana should be 
given to any married woman whose husband is alive. 

This Vat Savitri Vrat is observed once in a year but its significance 
1s so important that any lady should never miss it. After performing this 
vrat the lady should also touch the feet of her husband and the husband 
should bless her for her akhand saubhagya. 


SACRED GAURI VRAT 


There is a very detailed account in our Puranas on this rare and most 
, efficacious vrat or vow for Gauri (Parvati). One who reads or recites 
this story every day, for one year, will get worthy spouse. (By implication, 
this is meant for unmarried men also to be blessed with a timely 
marriage). 

We are now giving in this chapter this story and the manner of 
undertaking this vrat (vow), in full containmg mantra, Dhyana and stotra 


VRAT: A REMEDY FOR MARITAL MALADIES 507 


(the three essential limbs of a worship), as given above for Mangala 
Chandika stotra, ignoring space restraints, in order that a wider section 
of deserving readers stands to benefit (even by merely reading it every 
day). Since a vow is not complete without an example. we are giving 
Sita's Stotra of Durga as part of Gauri Vrat, whereby Sita acquired lord 
Rama (Vishnu) as her beloved husband which is also a part of Gaun 
vrat narrated by the Puranas. Thus, what is being given below is a 
complete account of the Gauri Vrat. 

Once sage Narada asked lord Narayana about the method of 
performing Gauri Vrat (the vow to propitiate Devi Gauri), the articles 
to be given away, in charity, the secrets revealed at the end and such other 
details. 


Lord Narayana narrates to Narada as under:- 


"The vow called Gauri Vrat is now being explained. Initially, women 
(of ancient times) had performed this vrat in the month of Margasirsha. 
Men also will attain the four ends (viz. Dharma, Artha, Kama and 
Moksha) apart_from devotion to lord Sn Krishna by performing this vrat. 
This is a famous in various lands. It is deemed that this vrat has been 
in place since remote past by tradition. This vrat grants husbands as 
desired by women i.e. according to their genuine wishes). By this vrat, 
a women obtains a highly affectionate husband. A girl (i.e. the aspirant) 
should fast on the previous day (i.e. before commencement of the month 
concemed), wash off the clothes (to be used the next day) and lead a 
restrained life. On the next day ie. on the day the month of Margasira 
commences (i.e.Shukla Paksha. Padyami, or the first lunar day of the 
bright half of Margasira month, with the Nirayana Sun transiting in 
Scorpio), she should take bath in near by river and wear the previously 
washed robes. In a sacred pot, the six prescribed deities viz.Ganesa, 
Surya, Agni (fire), Vishnu, Siva and Durga should be invoked. These 
deities should be worshipped with various articles offering the five kinds 
of Upacharas (obtations like clothes and ornaments). Before the Kalasa 
(sacred pot), a square vedi (ie.square area of ground to serve for 
sacrificial altar, having receptacles for the sacrificial fire) should be 
prepared. Sandal, incense, kasturi (musk) and kumkuma (saffron) should 
be applied on the vedi. An idol of Durga with ten arms should be got 
made of sand. A mark of saffron should be applied on the forehead of 
the idol, and an offer of camphor and sandal should also be made on 
the other parts of the body of the idol. (In genuinely difficult cases, as 
in these days, a normal picture of Parvati will be sufficient as an aid 


508 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


for unflinching concentration). The goddess should be invoked with 
prayers. Then the following mantra should be recited. 


Mantra 
& TR srererst eT eT srafeen Ter aT ae eae | arr 
ager | 

Meaning : O goddess Gauri, the half of lord Sankara, just as you 
are the beloved of Sankara, you the giver of auspiciousness, make me 
the beloved wife - such a wife that will not be so easily available for 
a charming man" 

The idol of Durga should be worshipped with the above cited mantra, 


after taking a sankalpa (or vow to complete the worship) alongwith the 
following moola mantra, stipulated in Saama Veda. 


8 Aes welerenarnyrs TA | 


Meaning : Om, obeisance to Sn Durga, the destroyer of all 
obstacles). 

Reciting these mantras, the goddess should be prayed with the most 
secretive prayers enjoined in the Sama Veda (being described below) 
which is not available even to the most excellent of sages. Men of 
attainment pray to Durga, the destroyer of evN manifestations, on these 
lines. 


2. Dhyana 


Goddess Durga, Sivaa (the auspicious one), Siva Priya (the beloved of 
lord Siva),Saivi (one who has the closest alliance with lord Siva) and 
the adorer of the chest region (abode of love) of lord Siva. On her 
glittering face, smiles are wide spread. She has a great fame. Her eyes 
are charming. She is rich with fresh and everlasting (undecaying) youth. 
She wears ornaments studded by jewels. Her arms are decorated with 
bejeweled bracelets and bangles. Her feet adore jewel studded anklets. 
Her ear ornaments increase the beauty of her cheeks. On her forehead, 
marks of musk and saffron appear. Her robes are purified with flames 
of fire. She adores on her head a jewel rich diadem. Garlands made of 
the most excellent gems of parijata flowers hang on her body, from neck 
to feet. Her hips is very hard and heavy. She is somewhat leaning forward 
with her heavy chest and freshening youth. Brahma and other gods ever 
praise her. Her physical splendor puts the radiance of even one crore 


VRAT: A REMEDY FOR MARITAL MALADIES 509 


Suns to shame. Her lips are reddish like a red gourd. The brightness of 
her body is akin to Champaka flower. Her teeth humiliating even a 
garland of pearls increase the charm of her face. She is the giver of 
Emancipation and desired boons. The beauty of the moon faced goddess 
defies even the full moon of the autumnal season. I worship that deity. 


3. Stotra 


The deity should be worshipped with the stotra as sung by lord Brahma. 
This is known as Brahma Krita Sarva Mangala Stotra (or the all- 
auspicious praise sung by lord Brahma, addressed to Durga). This stotra 
has been given in the another chapter. 


Devotion, dedication, faith and confidence of a woman in observa- 
tion of a Vrat for the accomplishment of all her ambitions enhancing 
prosperity, increasing name, fame, honour and long and healthy life to 
her husband is essential. 

Vrat is one of the strongest remedial measures to prevent all kinds 
of adversity, mishappenings, wrongs and negativeness of one's life. If 
the Vrat is observed without loosing faith in its remedial strength, the 
good results appear soon. Here we have mentioned Vat Savitri Vrat, 
Mangala Gauri Vrat and Mangal Vrat which bring enormous happiness, 
wealth, and akhand saubhagya to a female. This vrat brings the birth 
of male children and grand children as well. Observations of Vrat on 
Tuesday will defeat enemies and one would conquer over rivals. This 
will prevent accident wounds, cuts, boils and sickness and will provide 
lot of energy, activity, dynamism, smartness, courage etc. This will also 
prevent theft, deceit, losses, debts, murder, crimes and fear from fire. 
Therefore, observation of these vrats is undoubtedly most advantageous 
for all aspects of life, happiness, health and wealth. 

One should never forget that udyapan is also most essential to be 
undertaken immediately after the completion of vrat. Without observa- 
tion of udyapan complete results of the vrat may not come in evidence. 
If one stops observation of vrat without doing udyapan the good results 
already obtained may disappear thereafter. 


anges fe wetet aarante exerserery / 
wey vale vet ata wea aay ot 


Birth, death, auspicious, inauspicious, tribulations and salvation 
(Moksha) are all experienced by humans individually 


CHAPTER 5.7 


DONATION-A NOBLE DEED, 
SUPERB REMEDY INDEED 


onation has always been held in high esteem in the scheme of 
D>: deeds. Since times immemorial, the virtues of donation, 
alms or charity have been greatly extolled. Be it any race, culture 
or religion it has always been preached by the sages and practised by 
men as one of the noblest deed. Religions scriptures are replete with 
stories and anecdotes of how the persons in olden times donated 
according to their capability and reaped the benefits of divine blessings, 
not only in the same birth but future births too. Daan was an essential 
ritual associated with every ceremony, from birth to death. In holy books 
of other religions too, viz. Quran and Bible, persons are exhorted to make 
donations to get the blessings of Almighty. To some extent this serves 
to work towards the aim of equitable distribution of wealth in society. 
Those who have give to others and thus help to bridge the gap between 
haves and have- nots. 
In the present era of Kali (Kaliyug), Daan or donation has been 
particularly acclaimed. 


aq: ‘ead wera tar weraa as 
ar uatasaaate wet gets 


It has been said: 


wa waarw: -eet-a-ener wreletaad, 1 
wat ae aida wate alti: 11 


that is, donation pleases God, and those who know this secret never 


Donation—A NOBEL DEED, SUPERB REMEDY INDEED Stl 


hesitate in giving alms. He, who in spite of affluence is a miser, is never 
complimented or praised. 

Every religious literature has mentioned about and commended 
Daan. In Kaumarika khand of Skand Puran it is referred to as below: 


aalfe a carrie aReadteat | 
werd frqaeenfqe ata aq eeu si 


i. e. only ignorant does not donate with the fear of poverty, while the 
intelligent does not hesitate in donating to beget the fruits of happiness 
for many births. 

qadedaeiar ake atsaitagry 1 

gwrarafa fader we aqear gat Pray 71 


i. e. those who do not donate in spite of being wealthy should be drowned 
in water by tying a huge boulder in their neck. 

The persons who donate liberally are favoured by God. Such persons 
are highly glorified to the extent that they have been identified as one 
of the protectors of earth. 


mbifitea deea audit: werarfeld: 1 
aeqeedetaeteiea wabteafta wets 


i.e. the existence of earth is due to-cows, brahmin, sati, veracious, greed- 
less and charitable persons, these seven are holding the earth. 

In fact the main aim of earning money is to perform virtuous acts. 
Money should be earned by righteous means for righteous deeds. Shri 
Bahgavatpadji has mentioned that ’cezrerrer ferret’ meaning the money 
should be earned for donation or charity. 

In various religious ceremonies, several rites and even visits to holy 
place, everywhere the import of Daan has been accepted by one and all. 
No ceremony or yagya is complete without alms to the priest or brahmin. 
Those acts or ceremonies are acclaimed as fruitful where liberal dona- 
tions are given to brahmins. 

In the 145m chapter of 'Anushshan Parv' of Mahabhrat there is 
description of results of various actions or Karmas of the individuals. 
There come several occasions in the life when we cannot decide as to 
what is the cause of so much happiness or grief in our lives. Our 
Shaastras aver that mortals essentially experience the results of actions 
of their previous births. In this chapter it is specified as to what actions 
of our previous births are responsible for good or bad experiences in 


512 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHAS 


the present birth through a dialogue between Lord Shiva and Parvati 
‘Uma Maheshwar Samvad’. Daan, donation or charity finds significant 
reference in this dialogue. We quote from the relevant lines: 


sartara 

aaqntart et faq aaeieranfsia: | 
atadiat: ugeasdt adateaty uccafe 11 
a acid feat a act etfugaeéfa 11 


UMA asks: Among wealthy men there are many who in spite of having 
all the comforts and luxuries are not able to utilise or experience those 
comforts. What is the cause of this? Hey lord! Please tell me this. 


oft wéear sara 

a: wathar eet wodata caprea: ! 
easel afeecr oda a oefea ai 1) 
argent, OY urea: «= Yatatfourfer ertarad 
wala afi areal aid a wera |} 
vara, efucaea sired ferftrareraq = 1 


Maheshwar: Devi! Those who do good deeds only on the behest of others 
and not by self desire and make donations without faith and rue after 
that, when such persons take birth after death they are not able to utilise 
those comforts, which they get because of their good deeds. They, like 
soldiers protecting the treasuries, continue to only protect and increase 
their wealth. 


salaral 

ofaq aatryratea stlorgaat wzeeae | 

mag: weugerod aw efugudfe 11 
Uma: Maheshwar! Many persons are seen to enjoy the comforts despite 
being poor. How does this happen? Please tell me. 

at weeat sara 

fret at oaqaaat ae = faettaaceafi | 

wreddad wa: Yoaotsatst art: // 

ui-s ewattadtereastiorgaar ataccya | | 
Maheshwar: Devi! Those persons who are always keen on charity despite 


not having much wealth, such persons when get birth after death, enjoy 
the comforts despite being poor. 


Donation—A NOBEL DEED, SUPERB REMEDY INDEED 513 


satara 

soar @aeder fraet qNsieda | 

aouiteataeat 2a geust wad fast 11 

aradtat va apored werreteaauRaé : 1 

ar uayed gq aed alder 1) 

aR watered a aed g feasts 

ea wefarea act etfagauefa 11 
Uma: Bhagvan! Dev Deveshwar! Trilochan! Vrishabhdhwaj! Dev! Vibho! 
There are three types of persons. One, who without any effort get and 
enjoy best of place, prosperity and wealth. Second those who can get 
the wealth, comforts and happiness with much effort. And third those 
who do not get any thing even with much effort. It is the result of which 
Karmas? Please tell me this. 

at néeat sara 

qa fafrassicat gratserepataa: 1 

abrir tad ax weufa ward a ti 

aete dfrdta avfastata at i 

yactentar a ata atgem: ettetat ae: 1) 

sactdaeg ama wa uweqpacya | 

ardiat va aored sitorer ypastforet: 11 
Maheshwar: Devi! Persons keen on charity, who find persons eligible 
for alms or identify them by their instinct and going to them, even from 
far away, make them happy by donating the required things without 
disclosing their identity, such persons in their next birth become such 
noble persons who enjoy the fruits of their past actions and get all 
comforts without any effort. 


ar ta aati «eta wattar: 11 
wet weit arat yetetot a urfuat: | 
aracetal aat =f Yorotonfar A aR: | 
xed: ATTY: Yitara wrpalea a i! 


Second are those who donate on being demanded by the needy and every 
time on being asked only they donate, such persons on rebirth get the 
fruits of good deeds of past after continuous effort. 


ufaa sf efaa q a carta fede 
HUG AM atatueaqdtad: 11 


514 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHAS 


a qadenta jet qaeat weer ae: 

a vrata aaa aricacdsitfeaa 11 
There are also persons who do not donate even on being demanded by 
the needy. Their inner self is polluted with greed and they always find 
fault in others. Shubhe! Such persons on next birth do not get anything 
even after hard struggle. They do not find happiness even after continu- 
ous effort. 


aaa wed aea agqaaea fag: | 

aq uq eqita qeaead da owretfa warty / 

sla a «ofa Ufa qa: ata Refresh 
As no crop is erected without any seed, similar results should be 
understood in respect of Daan, donation or charity. One gets only that 
which he gives. Devi! This I have told you. What else you wish to listen? 


satara 

ayaa aaa efaq arelearya: | 

aalaavasre g sttoteda erent ais 

aeted wafa szat strode waeda: |! 

ba watfarea aet efuguetuis - 
Uma: Bhagvan! Mahadev, Destroyer of eyes of Bhagdevta! Some 
persons get much wealth and prosperity in their old age, when they have 
neither the age nor time on their side to enjoy the comforts. They anyhow 
in their old age get the wealth and prosperity 


at wéeat sara 

sea a werent yoy ara waleats | 

eatort fat ora faeqer eareretyats 

wrens arurdcatibiea ferdtfsat: 11 

arated yaeate ag aeat a ae: 1! 

a yaotonfer est spear ¢g: maafeqai: | 

sadlavtaat wre etfarcaqurerar: 1! 

astet ydeutat wart eperetarts | 

vad wateea Ufa wreratarg stacyass 
Maheshwar: Devi! I tell you the answer happily. You listen the content 
with concentration. The persons who in spite of being wealthy forget 
the good deeds for long time and start donating when they are troubled 
with illness or when their end is near. Shubhe! Such persons in their 


DonattoNn—A NOBEL DEED, SUPERB REMEDY INDEED S15 


next birth pass the youth in depravity and grief and get the fruits of 
previous daan in their old age only. 


sal ara 

atager werea fag euftrufeeat: 1 

saneatea ary ataq saafea fea wrerets| 
Uma: Mahadev! Some persons get all the comforts and prosperity in their 


young age only but are not able to enjoy them because of many diseases. 
Why does it happen? 


sft m@eax sara 

enttratsreRieect @ ferret: tasttad! 

sretet aa wd erenfer perearts 1 

a Yaotorfer est ura arfr wareyas 

sanatted ay ate catrared stacegas! 
Mahadev: Shubhlakhshane! Those who start charity or donation on being 
troubled by diseases or on being dejected with life, Shubhe! They on 


rebirth get the fruits of donations but being ridden with diseases are not 
able to enjoy those comforts. 


Such is the importance of donation described in our scriptures. In 
fact giving alms, help, money etc to the needy is the saving for the next 
birth. 

Not only this there are special effects mentioned for donations on 
a particular day. 


wraara fara ueq sienvten: vata 1 
wd aca anmrelto ae a a wala | 


That is, those who donate fil (sesame) to brahmins in the month of Maagh 
never see the hell, filled with many insects. 


FUATH Hered ul quae qavway / 
a yan weer stea aed atat a faocfer/ / 


Donation made on the day of Makar sankranti is returned multiplied by 
hundred times. Donation of Ghee and blanket has special significance 
on this day. Such persons get Moksh after enjoying all comforts in life. 

Scriptures are replete with stories of individuals who believed in and 
practised this pious deed even at the cost of their inconvenience. Kama, 
Raja Harishchandra and Raja Bali are some of the exemplary mytho- 


516 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHAS 


logical personages who earned the epithets of Daanveer because of their 
historic charities. 


Donation, to entreat Planets 


Donation or Daan is also recommended to pacify or please planets. It 
is one of the common practices to ward off the evils of particular planets 
or to get the best results during the dasa or periods of specific planet. 
Various things are associated with respective planets, which are required 
to be donated to obtain their benevolence. 


Articles for donation: 


yaentepragkeraa wad ay att: »ys yay 
stad aed wrdteqera ara fe attura aalea areas | 


Following articles are delineated for donation for Mars: - 
1. Wheat 
2. Gur or jaggery 
3. Gram 
4. Pulse of Masoor 
5. Red clothes 
6. Copper utensils 
7. Red sandal 
8. Kasturi 
9. Kesar 
10. Weapons 
11. Gold 
12. Coral 
13. Red calf or red bull 
14. Red flowers of Kaner 
15. Money 


Money is the universal article, which can be donated in place of any 
article and for donation for any planet, as all other articles can be 
purchased by money. 

It may not be out of context to enumerate various articles, which 
are specified for donation for other planets, for the convenience of 
readers. 

For Sun: 


Wheat, Gur, Ruby, Flower of Lotus, Kesar, Gold, Copper, Cow, red 
clothes, red sandal, New house, and money. 


DonaTion—A NOBEL DEED, SUPERB REMEDY INDEED 517 


For Moon: 


White flowers, Rice, Sugar, Utensil made of Bamboo, Silver, Curd, 
Pearl, Camphor, Ox, Conch, and money. 


For Mercury: 


Copper utensil, Green clothes, Ivory, Ghee, Moong, Emerald, 
multicoloured flowers, Gems, Camphor, books, Various fruits, all veg- 
etables, different foods, gold, and money. 

For Jupiter: 


Yellow rice, Yellow clothes, Gold, Ghee, Yellow flowers, Banana, 
Yellow Sapphire, Honey, Salt, Sugar, book, land, umbrella, Haridra and 
money etc., pulses. 


For Venus: 


White sandal, rice, white clothes, white flowers, Ghee, Gold, silver, curd, 
scented articles, sugar, cow, and money etc. 

For Saturn: 

Blue Sapphire, Mustard oil, iron, black sesame, black clothes, blanket, 


umbrella, black cow, buffalo, black flowers, Urd, Kasturi, gold and 
money, shoes, slipper, leather, wool and woollen clothes. 


For Rahu: 


Any seven cereals (Saptdhaanya), Hemnaag, Blue clothes, black cow, 
goat, black flower, sword, sesame, oil, iron, soop, blanket, Copper utensil 
filled with sesame, horse, gems, and money, Raanga. 


For Ketu: 


Blanket, Kasturi, Seven cereals, Cat's eye, weapons, oil, sesame, goat, 
gems, gold, iron, and money, Posta. 


Time of donation : 


gauea ulcer va, ath aeacs ta a 
aoe oft? acerat, sit? a ufeer gay 1! 
we eg xe ut, wt yw seviet 11 
wer wel a edt, ea aacg frepart 11 
It has been mentioned that the donation for various planets should be 
made at a particular time to get the maximum benefits. For Sun and 


518 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHAS 


Venus, the best time to donate is the time of sunrise while for Moon 
and Jupiter it is evening. Donation for Mars should be made aronnd 7 
in the morning and for Mercury around 8 a.m. The time of noon is best 
for Shani Daan i.e. donation for Saturn while the midnight is considered 
best for nodes i. e. Rahu and Ketu. It is mentioned that Daan made during 
other times, other than the specified, is fruitless. 


How to donate: 


We believe that donation is the mightiest measure to negate all adversities 
caused by various planets. There is nothing parallel to it if it is done 
according to one's capacity. In fact, in the present time we have become 
completely oblivious abont the virtues of donation. In earlier times, 
people used to donate villages, gold, wealth, eatables, silver, and gems 
etc. Donation should be quite a lot in quantity and amount. Some people 
on particular days give a coin or the like and consider this enough. 
Though this too may not be bad but in fact the Daan should be such 
which the donor perceives parting away with and the donee also 
appreciates that he has got something. Donation should be in the 
quantum or the quantity that the donor should be contented by giving 
a part of his property or wealth. 


Sankalp: The donation should be preceded with a pledge or Sankalp, 
as it is done at the time of mantra japa etc. The sankalp should be taken 
in any language by the donor that he is donating such articles to the 
person mentioned by name followed by mentioning the name of his 
father, gotra, date, purpose and the place where sankalp is being taken. 
The person, who is accepting the donation, shonld utter londly that he 
accepts the donation from the donor mentioned by name etc. Any 
donation is incomplete without money, without which one does not get 
the benefit of donation. 


so_sft oroterra at: 
(ara 8g Weer) 


a fawyfeoopfefouy: so ora: Uearcnel YUTgeutaiara, 3% 
aed yale argegtt siraavt sivataatedeta-aderad' weet * 
youula att (sta wa wielt serleata) slaqertaat aergenca 
fastitsen vadaraen cert fadta veel sftedaarreahea 
veapet want daeaaasacat setfdefaaat ofa 
starmam” ateraar yveratfentteaanrmn Aet sy- 


DonaTion—A NOBEL DEED, SUPERB REMEDY INDEED 519 


- WIR say@e- - -sTaet stap- - -wal wera .eri 
aaB- - -ATa srayw- - -Tal srapp- - -faett stagw- - -areae 
BTB- - -aeaxrdt srapw- - -alel ataqw- - -weot saraw- - 
-whrfted yt asraes- - -uberfterad ase stape- - -uberfera 
gage ety wey wer uerrfieenratteady aay vd 
weyfarteortattice art stape- - -atatseeq atape- - -erarlseay 
sTayeer-yasey Uunectleise aarena: xfacafaqeuciaa 
wa-Tietel AH AACA WTMILAS AH ABTrarA 
arqurisdeautte-sashiqed waaedtt Paroraazarvira 
suiraaentucadt aa arm (sae wreatt) wearersrareet 
wear werat geutfem wzetfarayicre yYautardtat 


datgaducradaghegurdrdaal wat se nonfat westicat a 
HEVSal Mls aleqearg Blicayel salfaeetreal tag - 
eyqfaaktetacreanely CSAATIDIAT AU [HUTT A 
atape- - -eaarytad aapo-sta@ (argo we art) aeqfer 
(ater wt ae et, al saw arty ara) dtetaa: sraaaoretew: 
(arftat 8 fav) aay seq wets 


Donation should be given to the deserving person and one has to make 
efforts in finding out the suitable recipient for donation. The donation 
for Mars can be given to Brahmins and Kshatriya natives. Donation for 
Saturn may be given to old or handicapped or shudras. For Mercury deaf 
and dumb, for Rahu sickly and handicapped (with deficiency of any 
organ) and for Jupiter pandit, priest of a temple or any learned person 
may be selected for Daan. 

One should donate liberally, with faith and dedication in the power 
of the Mangal Dev, to get the best results for the attainment of 
saubhagya, high degree of conjugal bliss, wealth, children, prosperity, 
popularity, and sound health; for elimination of enemies, conquest on 
rivals, criminals, and opponents; and to get rid of ailments and untimely 
death etc. 

Donation is the very potent measure to solve all problems, tensions, 
failures, dissatisfaction, disharmony and diseases but one must know the 
art of donation and for that, one must have full faith, intense desire and 
inner conscience to help the deserving person by donating money and 
articles to them. 


utal wrefsont vest fraakkay 1 
andtenrge frat farpeel vata 1! 


Such friends, who criticise or damage you at your back and 
flatter you in front, must be discarded like a pot filled with 
poison below and milk on the top. 


CHAPTER 5.8 


REMEDIES THROUGH 
GEM STONES 


either by auspicious or inauspicious results of planets. When 

obstacles, obstructions, and misfortune come into sight in human 
life, malfeasance of planets is considered to be the cause. Malefic nature 
of the planets and their placement in the birth chart also reveal the fact. 
Knowledge of astrology can only explain the effects of planets on human 
soul and life. Without pointing out the outline of the main cause for the 
problems, those astrologers who suggest remedial measure are to be 
considered half-baked quacks. In our humble opinion even the minutest 
detail of the horoscope must be taken into account for finding out the 
actual canse for the adversity, impediments and problems before suggest- 
ing the remedial measures. To execute any remedy involves sufficient 
time and money and before finally reaching to the conclusion with regard 
to suitable and appropriate remedy, the astrologer must study the 
planetary position very carefully and genuinely. 


it single second and every aspect of human life is influenced 


In modern era, where fashion has penetrated its root deep into the 
lives of people, gems are the most favourite way to counteract the 
adversities of planets. In comparison to the other remedial measures 
gems are more simple way of solution. Precious stones usually give 
marvellous results. 


Rationale of Prescribing a Gem: 


Gems are basically used to strengthen the power of planets. It is a 
misleading belief among some people that gems are used to pacify the 


REMEDIES THROUGH GEM STONES 521 


adverse results of the planets and make them favourable. Suppose, if a 
planet is adversely placed in a horoscope and is then strengthened, then 
the planet's adversities will be intensified. Gems or stones for adversely 
placed planets must not be used. Wearing the’ stone of those planets, 
whose lordship and placement is favourable but that planet is yveak or 
afflicted, will be of immense benefit. Whereas wearing stones of any 
adversely placed planet will enhance the malfeasance of that planet 
resulting into increase in harm, loss, tension, failure of undertakings, 
health problems and the like. So a gem concerning only that planet 
should be suggested who is well placed in the birth chart but is weak 
or afflicted due to one or the other reason. The explanation behind their 
effect is that stones draw the concerning vibration and colour from the 
cosmos and the Sun respectively and convey them to the body in contact. 
In fact after wearing the stone they balance the deficient colour element, 
if related to the concerning stone. There are many photochemical 
reactions, which take place in the body. So gems of varied colour and 
variety fulfil the deficiency and maintain the equilibrium of the body. 

The effect of stones can be elucidated on the basis of seven colours 
of spectrum. Each planet constitutes different colour of the spectrum. 
When any planet is favourable or unfavourable, the colour with regard 
to that planet gets efficient or deficient in our body. This deficiency or 
efficiency is noticed from the human behaviour. For example, if Mars 
get unfavourable then problems related to blood, occurrence of rashes, 
muscular trouble, accident, blood pressure and uncontrollable anger 
would get their prominence in the body. If coral is worn then these 
adversities of Mars will get reduced. 


Stone of lagna lord: 


Some say that wearing the stone of Jagna lord will strengthen the lagna, 
which will improve the personality, success in undertakings and overall 
prosperity. This is a wrong belief. If Jagna lord is adversely placed or 
afflicted then strengthening lagna lord by wearing its stone will intensify 
the adversity of the house concerned. For example, if lagna lord Moon 
is placed in the 6" house then wearing Pearl will enhance the diseases 
like common cold, fever, etc. 


Stone of Dasa lord: 


It is also incorrect to advise to wear the stone of mahadasha planet. Rahu, 
if placed in the 5" house will give diseases related with intelligence, so 
in this situation wearing of Gomed will intensify the adversity of Rahu. 


522 AN INSIGHT INIO KUJA DOSHA 


But if Rahu is placed in the 11" house and is weak due to one or the 
other reason, wearing Gomed will certainly be of great benefit. Stone 
of orily that mahadasha planet should be advised who is favourably 
placed in the birth chart. Some astrologers advise the stone for ruling 
antardasa planet but one thing should be kept in mind that before wearing 
stone for ruling antardasa planet, stone for mahadasa ruling planet should 
be used, of course if both the stones are complimentary to each other. 
Wearing of stones of mahadasa or antardasa ruling planet should be 
decided according to their strength and placement in the birth chart. 
Wearing stone of 9"1 lord is not always beneficial especially if it is 
afflicted due to placement or association with malefic planets. 


Stone of Rashi lord 


It is also a misleading belief that stones of birth sign or moon sign of 
the native will always be beneficial. Some people wear stones of rashi 
according to their name, which is definitely a point to laugh on. People 
spend huge amount of their savings on it. We know a jeweller who 
advises stones to people as per their rashi according to their name, and 
has earned several crores of rupees. 

In our humble opinion before wearing any precious stone, people 
must consult a knowledgeable astrologer because he only can see the 
planets' malfeasance or beneficence according to its placement or 
association. 

Some people wear a pendent ring of 'navratna' in order to please 
all the nine planets. This is like mixing all the vegetables, which will 
definitely make something but it will make a mixture that may not be 
completely palatable. So only one or two stones, and not more than that, 
should be advised at a time according to the deliberation of dasa, 
antardasa and the horoscope in totality 

Our body is composed of seven colours of the rainbow and the Sun 
has seven colours in its rays. When there is deficiency of one colour 
we are attacked with the disease caused by the deficiency of that colour. 
Gems have abundant source of recouping that colour into our body and 
this source is not exhausted even after use of several years. 

We will now discuss the value and utility of each gem separately 
as under: - 

RUBY 
Composition: 


Ruby is a crimson red coloured transparent stone, which is chemically 
composed of aluminium oxide 97.37%, iron oxide 109%, silica 1021%, 


REMEDIES THROUGH GEM STONES 523 


and total 97.32%. It does not lose its colour. Ruby is extremely hot and 
emits hot red rays. It is one of the costliest gemstone. 


Benefits: 


This stone has power to subside Vayu, pitta and kapha, (the tridosha 
theory in Ayurveda) and keeps the body fit. Ruby if worn in anamika 
(index finger) of right hand cures wound, ulcers, stomach trouble, 
lassitnde, bone disorders, anaemia, heart attacks and general weakness. 
Ruby being hot releases hot waves in the form of red cosmic rays which 
are capable of healing diseases arising out of cold, ie. congh and cold, 
bronchitis, asthma, mumps and fevers. The Sun provides resistance to 
the body. It governs inspiration and expiration, i. e. breath of life. It also 
rules over our consciousness and denotes individuality. 

The Sun is dry, masculine, hot, and fiery planet. The Sun represents 
the father of the native. Sun is the significator of heart and allied limbs. 
In any kind of heart tronble like myocardial infarction, tachycardia, and 
angina etc. a Ruby of good quality must be wom. This controls problems 
of heart. The Sun also signifies bones and eyes. If the Sun is debilitated 
or is placed in inimical sign or it is afflicted by malefics but occnpies 
the 3°, 4%, 9" 10" or II" house, the Ruby may be worn. 


Who should wear: 


Ruby will give its best results to the persons who are engaged in various 
professions like engineers, doctors, ministers, politicians, jeweller, judges 
or persons involved in textiles or electronic goods etc. Prescription of 
Ruby should not be based only on the ownership of the planet. The planet 
gives prominent results of the house tenanted by it. This can be explained 
by an example, which will help the beginners. Suppose you are owner 
of the honse at Dehradun but you are living as a tenant at Lucknow. Your 
influence, prominence, popularity will be highlighted in Lucknow and 
not at Dehradun. You will decorate the honse of Lucknow and will 
celebrate the functions, festivals etc. in Lucknow where you are living 
and not at Dehradun. The person who is living there will take care of 
the house at Dehradun. Thus the planet gives the prominent results of 
the house where it is situated. We humbly opine that the lordship of 
the planet should not be taken into consideration while suggesting any 
gemstone to any individual. 


After going through various books on gemstones and ways of their 
prescription we were shocked. Many authors have suggested that persons 
bom in different ascendants should wear a particnlar stone. For example, 


524 AN INSIGHT INIO KUJA DOSHA 


the natives bom in Aries, Scorpio, Sagittarius and Leo ascendants should 
wear Ruby and persons bom in remaining ascendants should not wear 
Ruby. We humbly opine that this is not relevant to the theory of 
gemstones. This is the incorrect way of prescribing gemstones. The 
relationship of the stone lord and the lagna lord should not be taken into 
consideration as many astrologers do. For Taurus ascendant they would 
not like to prescribe Ruby because /agna lord Venus is inimical to Sun. 
We strongly believe that the native of Taurus ascendant may wear Ruby 
if the Sun is afflicted in 3°, 4", 9 10" and 11" houses etc. In the 4 
house, afflicted Sun or adversely aspected Sun or the Sun if associated 
with Rahu or Ketu, gives heart troubles. In such a case ruby is the first 
stone to be suggested. Use of Ruby should be decided in the same way 
for other ascendants and different positions of Sun. 

{f the ascendant, the moon sign or the constellation is ruled by Sun 
and the Sun is well placed in the birth chart, Ruby may be wom 
especially during the major period of Sun. For the persons bom in Aries 
and Sagittarins 5“ and 9"" houses respectively are ruled by Sun. Ruby 
should be suggested especially if the Sun occupies upchayas or quad- 
rants. For the promotion of fortune, and for acquiring fame, honour, 
prosperity, popularity, power, reputation and recognition etc. Ruby can 
be wom. Ruby of the best quality is the costliest and is most useful for 
promotion of almost all aspects of life. 


Substitute Stone: Garnet, red spinel, Red Tourmaline etc. 
Compatibility: 


We believe that Ruby and Blue sapphire should not be wom together. 
Coral, Emerald, Yellow sapphire and Gomed may be wom along with 
Ruby. Diamond and Cat's eye should be avoided with Ruby. 


How to wear: Ruby should be wom in the ring finger or 'anamika', 
on any Sunday moming or in Krittika, Uttaraphalguni or Uttarashada 
nakshatra, after proper purification, within 48 minutes of the sunrise. It 
should be worn in Gold ring. 


PEARL 


Composition: 


Pearl is a sea gem and is opaque. It is found in several kinds of shellfish 
but mostly in mother of pearl oyster. Chemically composed of carbonate 
of lime the specific gravity of pearl is 2.5 to 2.7, and hardness 2.55 to 3.5. 


REMEDIES THROUGH GEM STONES 525 


Benefits: 


It is afeminine gem. It gives modesty, chastity, grace. It is also very useful 
for uterine disorders. The Sun during transit when comes and stays in 
Swati constellation (Libra), then the birth of a pearl in an oyster takes 
place. The pearl being cold releases cold waves of orange colour which 
are capable of curing diseases arising out of heat and hot rays i. e diseases 
like heat stroke, Sun stroke, blood pressure, headache, eye trouble, 
conjunctivitis, boils, carbuncles, and abscess etc. Pearl is more useful 
for persons born in Cancer, Scorpio, Pisces and Libra ascendant. Pearl 
will cure or control mental insanity, stress, tension, depression, frustra- 
tions and all kind of mental trouble. It cures cough, cold and fever. Those 
females suffering from hysteria, leucorrhoea, or dropsy must wear Pearl, 
as it will be very beneficial and advantageous for them. The Pearl brings 
peace of mind and must be worn by persons suffering from Kemadruma 
yoga provided Moon is not ill placed in the birth chart. In short pearl 
is of immense use and gives mental strength, better vision, and controls 
blood pressure and flow of blood. In addition to this prosperity, 
popularity, capability, creativity and power to work more is enhanced. 


Who should wear: 


Pearl may give immense benefit to the persons involved in navigation, 
marine time trade, irrigation, waterways, flood control, export- import, 
trade in salt, cold drinks, retail shops, dairy, food grains, glass industry, 
juicy fruits, hotels, restaurants, milk trade and trades where travelling 
is involved. Pearl gives best results to the persons bom in Libra, Scorpio, 
Pisces, Aries ascendants if Moon is placed in triangle or angle and forms 
a relationship between quadrant and angle. If Moon occupies Scorpio 
in 5" or 9" house, Pearl does miracles. We hasten to add that the natives 
who have their Moon in Scorpio either in Kendra, trikona or upchayas 
(excluding the 6"" house) must wear Pearl of good quality and heavy 
weight i. e. more than 10 rattis of weight. However the Pearl should not 
be advised if Moon occupies the 1%, 6", 8" or 12" house. 

One of the best uses of Pearl is to reduce the obstacles, and problems 
creeping up due to presence of Kemadruma yoga in one's birth chart. 
Kemadruma yoga is given rise to when no planet is there on either side 
of Moon i.e. in the 2" or the 12" from Moon. Kemadruma yoga applies 
retarding force to the benefics and accelerating force to malefics. The 
progress of the native gets heavily hampered. One is generally careless, 
carefree and restless if Kemadruma yoga is present. Failure of under- 
taking, obstacles in the path of success, retardation in progress and 


526 AN INSIGHT INIO KUJA DOSHA 


prosperity are the general features. It has been experienced that 
Kemadruma yoga creates problem in respect of the house owned and 
tenanted by Moon. Those who are suffering due to presence of Kemadruma 
yoga in their birth chart must wear Pearl in a silver ring on Monday 
moming or during the night of Poornamashi provided Moon does not 
occupy 6", 8" or 12" house. Many astrologers opine the use of Pearl 
to those who are bom in Rohini, Hasta or Shraavana nakshatra provided 
Moon is well fortified in the birth chart. 


Substitutes: Moonstone is the cheap and best substitute of Pearl. 
However, Haathi daant, white coral and Shankh can also be used as a 
substitute, if moonstone is not available. 


Compatibility: 


Antidotes of Pearl are Gomed and Cat's eye. It means where Moon plays 
negative role one should wear Gomed and Cat's eye to rectify the 
adversity. Ruby can counter the adversity of all planets and enhances 
the good effects of Sun. Similarly Pearl counter balances the adversity 
of all planets except the Sun and its own. 


How to wear: 


The Pearl must be wom in the ring firfger ie. anamikd on Monday 
morning and in Rohini, Hasta on Shraavan nakshatra in silver ring. 
Heavy Pearl of round spherical shape is not so auspicious as that 
of the shape of Batasha i. e. hemispherical, so that maximum surface 
of skin may touch the stone that is also known as baithki of Pearl (seat). 


Special note: It has been found that most of the persons wear Pear] in 
small finger, but this is highly objectionable and disadvantageous. 
‘Kanishka’ is a finger of Mercury and Mercury is the illegitimate child 
of Moon and is inimical to Moon. Therefore, wearing Pearl in finger 
of Mercury is just like a female to stay in the house of her enemy. In 
that case Pearl will not be able to give its best result to the native. We 
therefore suggest that the Pearl should be wom in the ring finger, which 
is the finger of Sun. The Sun & Moon are friends, moreover the Sun 
is king & Moon is queen. Therefore, the Pearl will give its best results 
if worn in ring finger and not in small finger. 


RED CORAL 
Composition: 
Red coral is found at the bottom of the sea. It is composed of skeletons 


REMEDIES THROUGH GEM STONES 527 


of zoophytes and is therefore opaque. Its specific gravity is 2.6 to 2.7 
and hardness about 3-4. 


Benefits: 


Mars is situated very near to earth; therefore its influence in our lives 
is very great and prominent. It governs the head and brain, genital organs, 
generative system, muscular system, marrow, bile, nose, nasal passage 
and forehead. Mars clears out waste products from the blood and body 
and thus keeps the body fit. That is why he rules over the excretory 
glands, kidney, urinary system, genital organs, penis, rectum, and sweat 
glands. Coral can cure anaemia, depression, melancholia, lassitude, 
convulsions, fits, fainting, weakness, low blood pressure and general 
debility. Red rays are stored abundantly in red coral, which is not 
exhausted even after its constant use over years, but it is continuously 
eroded, as a result of which it's size and weight reduces. Again, excess 
of red rays in our body causes high B. P., boils, carbuncles, abscess, all 
sorts of inflammation, conjunctivitis, defective vision, diarrhoea, vom- 
iting, headache, vertigo, insanity, etc. 


It ensures marital happiness and prevents unhealthy marital relation- 
ships. It protects women from untimely widowhood in few cases where 
Mars is well disposed and the widowhood is caused due to evil placement 
of Rahu, Ketu or Saturn. Mars is a planet of Mangalaya and if Mars 
is adversely placed and gives rise to mangli dosha it must be borne in 
mind that use of Coral will be damaging in such cases. However, if Mars 
is well placed, use of Coral will result into happy married life, conjugal 
bliss and will prevent discord and miseries in addition to widowhood. 
Red coral may cure piles, blood troubles, low B. P. and irregularities 
in menstrual cycle. 


Mars is the most disastrous planet, which if adversely placed in a 
birth chart may create havoc. All criminal acts and adversities like 
conflicts, confrontations, suicide, widowhood, separation, accidents, 
operations, wounds, boils, burns and untimely deaths take place due to 
negative vibrations of Mars and a Coral of good quality and heavy weight 
prevents all such adversities, problems, tensions and accidents etc. 


Who should wear: 


Mars denotes accidents, untimely deaths, injuries, wounds, operations, 
suicides, murder, criminal acts, muscular ailments, blood troubles, head, 
and excretory organs etc. If Mars occupies the 1%, 4, 6, 7, 8™ or 12" 
house use of Coral should not be suggested but use of Coral in case of 


528 AN INSIGHT INIO KUJA DOSHA 


placement of Mars in other houses prevents the ailment and adversities 
as explained above. For Cancer, Leo, Scorpio, Aquarius, Pisces ascen- 
dants Coral will be very useful if Mars is well disposed. Aries and 
Sagittarius are next to these ascendants. Negative effects of Mars get 
further multiplied if it is retrograde, or conjoined or aspected by malefics. 
In that case use of red Coral must not be advised. The persons born in 
Gemini or Virgo, until unless suggested by any expert astrologer, should 
not wear coral. 

Red coral is very useful for persons engaged in police, security, 
defence, ordinance, arms and fire fighting, and surgeons. It ensures 
successful operations and checks accidents. Coral is very useful for 
surgical operations. One should keep wearing Coral during operation as 
it will result into better quality of operation and heal the wound of the 
native soon. Surgeons may also wear Coral during operation even around 
the neck, if not possible in finger, for better and successful operation. 

Those females who are not able to conceive, even after repeated 
endeavours, should also wear Coral. In our experience red Indian Coral 
is a ‘Raam Baan! for females, as this keeps the physical system free from 
ailments and troubles. Only a practising astrologer can say that Coral 
is the most useful gemstone among all and must be used by them who 
have well-fortified Mars in their birth chart. It prevents still birth, 
bleeding during pregnancy and disorders during family way. We suggest 
wearing of heavy coral of 14 ratti of weight during pregnancy for such 
females who have well placed Mars in their birth charts. We have 
observed innumerable miracles and wonders by the use of Coral during 
last 30 years of our study of astrology. 


Coral does miracles during pregnancy. The growth and progress of 
child will certainly be better. The pregnant females will experience less 
trouble and least problems during the period of family way. Let us 
explain the point with the help of an example of the miracle shown by 
Coral or moonga. 

One of our friends Mr. Srivastava was having two daughters. He was 
desirous to have one male child. We suggested few tested measures to 
him and his wife conceived a male child, which was confirmed by 
modern tests. Mr. and Mrs. Srivastava were very happy. It was suggested 
that his wife should wear an Indian Coral. He ignored and postponed 
the’ matter in spite of repeated persuasions. In fact he was carefree 
because at the time of birth of other two children the delivery was normal. 
It was heard in due course of time that the child died during the 6 month 
in the womb itself. Foetus could not be taken ont because Mrs. Srivastava 


REMEDIES THROUGH GEM STONES 529 


was suffering from high fever. Mr. Srivastava felt extremely guilty and 
responsible for the loss of child, as he didn't bring Coral for his wife 
in spite of repeated persuasions. The situation became worst when even 
world famous gynaecologist Dr. Kutti expressed her inability to save her. 
It was not possible to operate during high fever. Everyone concerned 
started crying. Then Mr. Srivastava visited me around 0200 hrs in the 
night and told me that Dr. Kutti has lost hopes. I was wearing a heavy 
Coral of 30 rattis of weight, which ] handed over to him and told him 
that he should immediately go to the hospital and give the Coral to his 
wife. This time he followed the advice. As a result, she delivered the 
dead child at 1600 hrs. next day without any operation. Thus the life 
of Mrs. Srivastava was saved and Dr. Kutti was amazed. This was the 
miraculous effect of Indian Coral. In innumerable other cases we have 
observed wonderful effects of Coral in females, especially during 
pregnancy and for regularising their menstrual cycle. 


Persons who have Mars in the 8" house should never wear Coral. 
We do not favour wearing of Coral by mangali girls. However, those 
who are bom in Cancer, Leo, Aries and Scorpio ascendants and Mars 
occupies 10", 3°, 9" and 11" house, should wear an Indian Coral. The 
natives born in other ascendants may wear red Coral if Mars is well 
placed but is combust, afflicted, debilitated or retrograde. Coral must be 
wom during the major period of Mars if Mars is effective for auspicious 
occurrences. A good coral can always i wom if Mars is placed in the 
10" or the 11" house. 

Children who are suffering from balarishta yoga are also advised 
to wear two corals of 10 rattis of weight with a hole in them along with 
a locket of moonstone in a strong thread. In our practice we have 
suggested this locket of two corals and a moonstone to hundreds of 
children suffering from balarishta yoga. This prevents them from 
injuries, stomach ailments, and loss of blood or frequent fevers of any 
kind. We believe that all children should wear this locket till 8 or 12 
years of age, as that will keep them healthy and free from any serious 
ailments throughout. 


Compatibility: 


Coral may be wom with Pearl and Gomed as they act as catalytic agent 
if wom with Coral. Ruby and yellow Sapphire may be wom with Indian 
Coral. Coral should never be wom with blue sapphire, emerald and 
diamond. However, if Mars is adversely placed one should wear emerald 
to eliminate the adversity of Mars. Emerald is antidote of red coral. 


530 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


How to wear: 


Coral should be wom in gold or silver ring on Tuesday morning after 
purification in left or right hand as the case may be. It is worn in the 
third finger of right hand in order to overcome the evil effects of Mars. 
Coral of only heavy weight or more than 14 rattis gives proper and 
desired results and Coral of light weight of 5 or 6 rattis of weight does 
not give much to the native. We have found that Indian Coral is certainly 
better than Italian and other Corals as far as deep and lasting effects are 
concerned. The colour of the Coral is best if it is deep orange inclined 
towards red colour and not towards yellow. 

In short, coral is one of the most advantageous gemstone especially 
for females during pregnancy, operation, and various kinds of sufferings, 
tensions, and frustration. Those who are suffering from hypertension or 
are prone to accidents should always wear coral. 


EMERALD 
Composition: 


Emerald is a green and transparent gemstone of the highest rank, second 
in value only to Ruby. It is chemically composed of silica 67-85%, 
aluminia 17-95%, beryllia 124 %, magnesia 0.9%, soda 0.07%, water 
1.665 and organic matter 0.12%. It's specific gravity is 2.75, hardness 
75 to 8 and is brittle. Out of the seven colours of the rainbow it emits 
green cosmic rays 


Benefits: 


It makes the eyes cool very soon. Emerald has the power to cure all sorts 
of eye troubles, ear troubles, headache, forgetfulness, epilepsy, insanity, 
stammering, hysteria, nervous breakdown, and stomach disorders. It is 
cold and subsides excess of pitta in the body. Pearl also acts over brain 
but emerald has a deeper and lasting effect. Mercury rules over speech, 
tongue, logic, arguments, respiratory system, arms, shoulder and nervous 
system. It will not be out of place to mention that flawless emerald, free 
from any cloud, crack, spots, roughness, or haziness etc. will certainly 
be advantageous for all such ailments and functions of organs like 
tongue, ear, nose, skin, throat, brain and intelligence. 

Emerald is also very useful in controlling fickle-mindedness, loss 
of memory, fear from spirits, harsh speech, breathing trouble, asthma, 
loss of speech, flattering in speech, hysteria, vomiting tendencies, food 
poisoning, hernia, and intestinal diseases. 


REMEDIES THROUGH GEM STONES 531 


Who should wear: 


Newly married couple should not wear Emerald. It as it reduces sexual 
hunger and passion and brings impotency. 

Persons born in Gemini, Virgo, Leo, or Libra ascendant may wear 
emerald if Mercury is well placed in the horoscope but is retrograde, 
weak or afflicted or conjoined or aspected by malefics or debilitated. 
Mercury is the significator of memory. sharpness of brain, fertility, 
creativity, emotions, and sentiments etc. All renowned scholars, writers, 
actors, poets, dramatist, singer, lyricist, musicians, astrologers, physi- 
cians and intellectuals have strong and well placed Mercury, in addition 
to the well disposed 5'* house. Affliction of Mercury causes depression, 
negative thinking, hysteria, insanity and mental diseases. Combination 
of Mercury and Mars, and affliction of Mercury and Moon tends one 
towards, insanity. In all such cases one should wear an emerald of good 
quality and heavy weight in small finger on any Wednesday morning. 

All intellectuals should wear emerald provided Mercury occupies 
quadrants and triangles, as it energises the brain and keeps the brain cells 
active and fertile. 

Green emerald ensures success to persons in trade connected with 
money, banking and financial business, cashiers, accountants, shares, 
stock market, publishers, bank officials, chartered accountants, company 
secretary, computer programmers, tax collectors, lawyer, journalists, 
newspapers magnets, insurance, etc. Emerald has amazing power to 
eliminate the adverse effect of poison. It ts an antidote to poison. In 
ancient times, kings used to have utensils, plates and glasses made of 
emerald because if someone tries to poison the food or drinks, the 
utensils would break. 


Substitutes: 


Its substitute is Onyx but its weight should be twice than that of emerald. 
Aquamarine, Peridot and Kinney stone are other substitutes. 


Compatibility: 


It may be noted that Pearl is the antidote of emerald. It means one should 
wear Pearl instead of emerald if Mercury is adversely placed or afflicted 
or Mercury occupies the 6th or 8th house or is conjoined with Rahu or 
Mars. Pearl should be advised provided Moon is well placed in the birth 
chart. If Mercury and Moon both are suitably placed in the birth chart 
emerald and Pearl may be wom together. Emerald and ruby can be wom 
together but emerald should not be worn with coral, gomed and cat's 


532 AN INSIGHT INTO KusA DOSHA 


eye. The best combination of emerald is to wear it with diamond and 
blue sapphire. If these three stones- emerald, diamond and blue sapphire- 
are wom together in conceming fingers one will be free from all ailments 
mostly, and will rise in profession, business or service. The income will 
also be enhanced appreciably. The second combination is to wear 
emerald and Pearl. The third combination is to wear emerald and ruby. 
However, the weight of gems and complimentary gems should be judged 
after careful examination of the birth chart. Astrologers should also study 
bhava chart, constellations and the strength of the birth chart before 
finally suggesting any gem to the native. 


How to wear: 


It is wom in small finger of left hand on Wednesday moming after proper 
purification with in 48 minutes of sunrise. It may also be wom during 
Aslesha, Jyeshtha or Revati nakshatra. Mostly emerald is wom in the 
small finger but it may also be wom in the ring finger and middle finger. 
These fingers are of Sun and Satum who are friends of Mercury. We 
have rarely seen people wearing emerald in ring or middle finger. We 
therefore want to invite the attention of the readers towards the fact that 
emerald may be wom in ring or middle finger instead of small finger, 
whenever there is feeling of discomfort or inconvenience. 


YELLOW SAPPHIRE 
Composition: 


Yellow sapphire is a precious stone. Its hardness is 9, specific gravity 
4.06 and lustre adamantine to vitreous. It is brittle and a cold stone and 
it emits yellow cosmic rays. 


Benefits: 


It has the power to subside excess of vayu, pitta and kapha (the tridosa 
theory in ayurveda). Yellow sapphire has miraculous healing power. It 
cures rheumatoid arthritis, degenerative arthritis, gout, sciatica, lumbago, 
rheumatism spondylitis, heat troubles, high blood pressure, stomach 
ailments, impotency, frigidity and sterility. This stone is very useful for 
students as it increases memory and gives concentration of mind, 
firmness of decision and eagerness to study more. It also cures forget- 
fulness. It helps one to earn lots of money. It increases wealth and landed 
properties. It also helps one to earn name, fame, and reputation, and to 
rise very much high in life. This is also very useful for early settlement 
of marriage. 


REMEDIES THROUGH GEM STONES 533 


Yellow sapphire is very useful in prevention of obstacles in child- 
birth. Whenever suntan karaka Jupiter is afflicted, weak or adversely 
placed problems regarding birth of children creep up in one or the other 
way. Weak or afflicted Jupiter either denies the birth of children or the 
birth is delayed or the children do not live long or otherwise there are 
frequent miscarriages. In all such cases yellow sapphire of more than 
7 % rattis of weight, of good yellow colour and flawless in quality, 
definitely helps the native. It is the best remedial measure in any such 
problem and may be wom by male and female alike. 


Who should wear: 


Yellow sapphire can be wom by the persons bom in Aries, Cancer, 
Scorpio, Sagittarius and Pisces, if Jupiter is weak but well placed. For 
afflicted, retrograde and weak Jupiter or if Jupiter is conjoined with or 
aspected by malefics yellow sapphire in highly useful. This is one of 
the best gemstone for happy, prosperous and rich life and also gives rise 
to long lasting conjugal bliss if suggested after proper judgement of the 
birth chart. If yellow sapphire is wom by doctors, astrologers, priests, 
scholars, teacher, researchers, or by them who have a weak constitution, 
they will certainly be benefited. 

Persons engaged in teaching, education, law, administration of 
justice, MPs. MLAs, judges, public leaders, gazetted officials, vice 
chancellors, chairmen of public bodies, secretaries, legal luminaries, 
administrators, big financiers and high priests may be benefited by 
wearing yellow sapphire. 

Many authors believe that persons bom in Leo ascendant should not 
be advised to wear yellow sapphire because Jupiter owns the 8 house. 
We have already stated that placement of a planet is more important and 
has a vital effect on the native and not the lordship of the planet. So 
one bom in Leo ascendant may also wear yellow sapphire if Jupiter 
occupies quadrants or triangle but that is weak, afflicted or retrograde. 
If Jupiter is placed in 3ra, 2nd, and 11" house yellow sapphire will be 
useful especially if wom during the major period of Jupiter. This gives 
best results to persons bom in Sagittarius ascendant and if Jupiter 
occupies any of the triangles. 

Yellow sapphire expedites marriage of girls. Jupiter is the significator 
of marital happiness in females. Those girls may wear yellow sapphire 
of more than 7 rattis of weight whose marriage is getting late and they 
are facing obstacles in the settlement of marriage without any proper 
reason. Married woman can also wear yellow sapphire if the conjugal 


534 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


bliss is absent or obstructed. A charming girl who lives very near to our 
house was frustrated, as her marriage could not be settled till 29 years 
of age. Whenever she visited me along with her brother 1 advised her 
to wear a yellow sapphire. She was bom in Libra ascendant and Jupiter 
occupied the 5th house under affliction due to the aspect of malefics. She 
could not wear yellow sapphire due to its heavy cost. She consulted me 
many times and 1 always advised the remedial gem to her. Ultimately 
her brother purchased yellow sapphire of 7 rattis of weight. The marriage 
of the girl took place within four months after wearing pukhraj by the 
girl in question. In fact she and her brother could not believe that these 
gemstones could expedite marriage. Similarly there are innumerable girls 
who were facing problems and obstacles in the settlement of their 
marriage and were benefited by wearing yellow sapphire. 


Substitutes: 


Topaz is the substitute of yellow sapphire but it should always be wom 
of double weight than yellow sapphire as indicated in one’s birth chart. 
Yellow Akeek may also be used in its place. 


How to wear: 


It is usually worn in the first finger of the nght hand. Yellow sapphire 
must be worm in gold ring in the index finger on Thursday morning after 
purification (as mentioned earlier). Yellow sapphire or Pukhraj is one 
of the costliest but common stone and can be seen in the finger of 
prosperous persons. If one feels inconvenience in wearing it in index 
finger it can be wom in the ring finger as well because that is the finger 
of Sun who is a good friend of Jupiter. We have seen better results of 
yellow sapphire in ring finger instead of index finer. It can be wom in 
early moming when Punarvasu, Poorva Bhadrapada, or Vishakha 
nakshatras are operative and there is no Bhadra. 
Compatibility: Blue colour cuts the yellow colour and vice versa. It 
means that the negative influence of Saturn can be nullified by wearing 
yellow sapphire and the adverse results of Jupiter can be counter 
balanced by blue sapphire. So if Jupiter is adversely placed and emits 
negative vibrations on the native blue sapphire can be used whereas if 
Satur is adverse yellow sapphire will be of immense benefit. However, 
use yellow sapphire when Jupiter is weak or afflicted but well placed. 
Yellow sapphire will reduce the adversity caused by Mars, Mercury, 
Satum and Venus. However, yellow sapphire cannot counteract the evil 
vibrations of the Sun and Moon. Yellow sapphire can be worm along with 


REMEDIES THROUGH GEM STONES 535 


coral, pearl and ruby. It should not be wom with diamond and blue 
sapphire. Emerald is antidote of yellow sapphire as mentioned in Jataka 
Parijat chapter 2. In our practical experience we have found that yellow 
sapphire and emerald of almost equal weights make one active, fertile, 
energetic and creative. 

Unmarried girls who are facing obstacles in the finalisation of 
marriage may wear Indian coral of 14 rattis of weight along with yellow 
sapphire of 7 rattis of weight, if they are not mangli and Jupiter is 
afflicted, weak, retrograde or debilitated but that is not placed in trikas. 
This combination will also be advantageous for begetting healthy 
children, if any problem is there in begetting children. However, gems 
should be prescribed after proper study of the birth chart of the native. 

In any birth chart the indications of many gemstones may be justified 
but one should advise one or two gemstones after proper examination 
of the birth chart. The /agna and 9 lord should also be taken into 
account before prescribing any gemstone. If any of these lords are weak, 
afflicted, retrograde, adversely aspected or conjoined with malefics and 
dasa bhukti of that planet is running, the prescription of that gemstone 
will be authentic and useful. 


DIAMOND 
Composition: 


Diamond is the hardest known substance and is a allotrope of carbon. 
Its specific gravity is 4 and hardness 10. Diamond is neither hot nor cold, 
it is neutral. Of the seven rays of the rainbow, it represents the indigo 
colour. 


Benefits: 


It is not good for healing purposes. It is the stone for Venus. Venus is 
the planet of love, romance, beauty, attraction and fair Complexion. The 
native who has afflicted Venus may suffer from leucoderma, eczema, 
leprosy, and small pox as Venus represents the beauty of skin. If Venus 
is afflicted by Saturn and the Sun is also afflicted the native may suffer 
from fibroid tumour and menorrhagia. If Venus is placed in trik houses 
the native may suffer from impotency. Diamond provides lots of vitality, 
vigour, courage, and boldness. Passion gets also enhanced along with 
the strength and pleasure during physical togetherness. 

Venus rules over genital organs, potency of the native, uterus, 
prostate, urinary track, functions of kidney and skin etc. Diamond 
provides strength to these organs provided Venus is well placed. 


536 AN INSIGHT NIO KUJA DOSHA 


Use of Diamond gives rise to attraction of females towards the native 
or attraction of males towards females. This enhances beauty, charm and 
makes the personality impressive. 

We have advised diamond to the natives who were aspirant of 
children but due to the native's weak and less count of sperms in the 
semen, they were unable to conceive their wives. In such cases diamond 
plays a wonderful role and increases the vitality and number of fertile 
sperms. In number of cases amazing success in birth of children was 
there after wearing the diamond or even its substitute. The females, who 
were suffering from frigidity and sterility, have also been benefited 
astonishingly after wearing diamond. However, the prescription of 
diamond should be made after proper examination of the location of 
Venus in the birth chart. In case of males, the diamond expedites 
marriage and enhances the conjugal bliss, as there is lot of warmth 
between the couple. 


Who should wear: 


Diamond should be wom by persons bom in Tanmus, Libra, Capricom 
and Aqnarins ascendant provided Venus is well placed but afflicted, 
combust, retrograde, debilitated or conjoined with or aspected by 
malefics. Persons bom in Gemini or Virgo ascendant, if-advised after 
the proper judgement of the birth chart, can also wear diamond. 

Diamond ensures success of persons engaged in artistic field, film 
industry, fashion goods, beauty parlour, foreign relations and trade, wine 
trade, transport, sugar, sweets etc. Venus is the significator of admin- 
istrative services as in most of the cases of IAS and bureaucrats Venus 
does play a significant role in regard to their occupation. So persons 
involved in administrative services such as IAS, PCS, IPS, IFS, IRS, 
IAAS, etc. may wear a diamond of good quality for more prominent 
success. 

Generally students should not be advised to wear diamond, as this 
may increase their passion and they will seek sensual pleasure here and 
there. 


Substitutes: 


The substitutes of Diamond are White Sapphire, Opal, Jerkin, but the 
weight should be ten times than that of Diamond as the case may be. 
Those who cannot afford the substitutes of diamond as mentioned above 
may wear jerkin, haathi dant or shankh for Venus. These are very cheap 
substitutes and may be purchased easily. 


REMEDIES THROUGH GEM STONES 537 


How to wear: 


It must be wom in middle finger. Single piece of Diamond of at least 
one ratti should be used instead of small pieces of Diamond. Diamond 
ring should be wom, in platinum or white gold, on Friday moming in 
middle finger after purification (as mentioned earlier). Diamond should 
be wom on Friday moming or when Bharani, Poova phalguni or Poorva 
Shadha nakshatra are operative. free from Bhadra. 

There is a difference of view in regard to appropriate finger for 
wearing diamond. Many authors have opined small finger or ring finger 
for wealing diamond. These authors are also of a view that diamond 
should be wom in gold. We very firmly oppose this view. Diamond 
should not be wom in the ring finger as it is ruled by the Sun and Venus 
is inimical towards Sun. To some extent diamond may be wom in small 
finger, as it is the finger of Mercury who is a friend to Venus. The gold 
is a metal of Sun; so diamond should not be wom in gold. Instead of 
that diamond should be wom in platinum or white gold in the middle 
finger on Friday moming after purification. Middle finger is owned by 
Satum who is friendly towards Venus, so this is the best-suited finger 
for wearing diamond. 


BLUE SAPPHIRE 
Composition: 


It is a precious stone commonly known as Neelam. Its hardness is 
9, specific gravity 4.06, and lustre adamantine to vitreous. It is 
brittle. 

The biggest blue sapphire in the world has the weight of 916 carats. 
It was in the possession of person called Ahmed of Hyderabad in 1920. 
His ancestors received it as a reward from Tipu Sultan. It is not known 
who is having it now. 


Benefits: 


The gem blue sapphire has miraculous and magical powers in healing 
all sorts of diseases of the brain and stomach, the two vital parts of the 
body. It has magical powers in healing diarrhoea, dysentery, gastric ulcer, 
nervous disorders, headaches, vertigo, vomiting, paralysis, poliomyelitis, 
Parkinson's disease, cardiac troubles, high B. P., arthritis, bubo, insanity, 
urinary complaints etc. This is a very useful gem for higher studies and 
research work as it gives concentration of mind, perfection, precision 
and willingness to work more. 


538 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


This is a common belief among all that the blue sapphire can make 
one a king, if suits the native, or otherwise it can bring unaccountable 
miseries, frequent failures and series of disappointment and destruction. 
In fact blue colour of the blue sapphire gives rise to specific vibrations 
in the nervous system of the body as all veins come under the blue colour. 
Most of the vessels and veins arc also of blue colour and if there is a 
negative vibration of blue colour, the system of body will lose its balance, 
which will damage the way of working, activity, and the control of body 
will be heavily disturbed. This will certainly be adverse for the native. 
On the contrary favourable vibrations of blue sapphire will promote and 
strengthen the overall nervous system and veins of the body which will 
result into enhanced energy, better intelligence, dynamism and confident 
way of working which will promote future prospects, prosperity, popu- 
larity and power of the native. That is the reason to say that blue sapphire 
brings good luck and better fortune. 


Who should wear: 


Blue sapphire is very useful for persons born in Taurus, Libra, Capricom 
and Aquarius ascendant, provided Satum is well placed in 3ra, 6", 10m 
or 11" house. Persons engaged in the trade of iron, steel, machinery, 
petrol, oil of any kind, coal, skin and bones, legal profession, yogic 
exercises, trade, and persons involved in various acts of union, engineers, 
mine workers and persons dealing in metallurgy may be immensely 
benefited by blue sapphire. If the influence of Saturn is negative the 
native suffers mostly from stomach trouble, deafness, and paralysis and 
hurts the feet. 


Substitutes: 


The substitutes of Blue Sapphire are Lajvart, Amethyst and Firoza and 
these should be thrice the weight of Blue Sapphire indicated as per the 
birth chart. 


Compatibility: 


Combination of Blue Sapphire, Emerald and Diamond of almost equal 
weight can give astonishing results provided the related planets are well 
placed. 

Another group of precious stone is that of Yellow Sapphire, Coral 
and Pearl. These act like catalyst for each other. Coral and Gomed are 
very much complementary to each other and give wonderful results, if 


REMEDIES THROUGH GEM STONES 539 


wom of equal weight. Similarly, Emerald and Pearl may also be worn 
of equal weight to achieve good results in undertakings, enhance 
intelligence and strengthen the brain in various ways. 

Blue sapphire should never be worn with mby, red coral and Pearl, 
as these are antidotes to blue sapphire. However, yellow sapphire should 
be used when the adverse effects of blue sapphire are required to be 
minimised or nullified. Yellow colour checks the negative vibration of 
blue colour and vice versa. 

Special Indications as per our observation: It has been found that 
if Neelam suits the subject, wonderful results are experienced, if it is 
wom with Emerald and Diamond. It is our practical observation that 
equal weight of Blue Sapphire and Emerald, along with 25% or more 
weight of diamond, gives the best result provided Satur, Venus and 
Mercury are well placed in the birth chart, and these act as catalyst for 
each other. 


How to wear: 


It is too cold ‘and, as such, it should be worn in the middle finger of 
left hand. Blue sapphire is wom in middle finger in silver ring on 
Saturday morning or when Anuradha, Pushya and Uttara Bhadrapad 
nakshatras are rising, free from Bhadra, after purification (as mentioned 
earlier). Blue sapphire should never be wom when saadhe sati is 
operative on the native. 


Special Note: Blue Sapphire is worn after proper and repeated testing. 
Testing does not mean whether Neelam will suit the native or not? One 
has to test which particular Neelam will snit him. If Neelam is indicated 
in the horoscope as a suitable birthstone, one should keep on trying 
Neelam one after the other of different qualities so long one does not 
find suitable or favourable Neelam. One may find Neelam favourable 
or unfavourable and that is quite easy to judge. If the Neelam is neutral 
and does not do any harm nor does any good that Neelam is also nseless 
to wear. The individnal should wear only that Sapphire, which during 
its testing made the native's mood lively and cheerful, and there is active 
life, sound sleep, auspicious dreams, and good gains, less fatigue and 
more concentration. There shonld be no depression, distress, tensions, 
frustration, discomfort, carelessness, restlessness etc. while wearing a 
suitable or favourable Neelam. However, this is a tough exercise to find 
out the most suitable blue sapphire for the native. He should try again 
and again unless he finds a suitable one. 


540 AN INSIGHT INIO KUJA DOSHA 


GOMEDHA OR HESSONITE 
Composition: 


It's English name is hessonite. It belongs to the Garnet group of stones. 
This is a soft stone with hardness of 2.7 and specific gravity 3.55 to 3.66. 
It is a cold stone and emits coldest ultra-violet cosmic rays. 


Benefits: 


This stone is for Rahu and is very good for students. The gem Gomed 
cures excess of wind and increases appetite and promises vitality. It 
confers health, wealth, happiness and all round prosperity in life. 
Combined use of gomed and red coral cures nervous disorders, brain 
troubles, digestive complaints, accident, snake's bite, insanity, animal 
bite etc. Wearing gomed also minimises arrogance, proud and the 
tendency of being adamant. 

Deterioration and degeneration of the limbs is checked by gomed 
and at least further adversity is prevented. During the adverse or 
favourable major period of Rahu wearing of flawless gomed helps a lot 
provided Rahu does not occupy 8" or 12'*house. Rahu gives auspicious 
results in the 6th house but it gives rise to stomach ailment connected 
with intestinal malfunctioning. Therefore, gomed cures stomach problem 
and improves digestive system. Sub period of Saturn, Mars and Ketu in 
the major period of Rahu, and vice versa, mostly create adversity, 
problems, failures, disappointment, destruction, inimical activities, deaths, 
debts etc. Therefore, gomed will be useful during its dasa bhukti 
provided it is advised after proper judgement of the location of Rahu 
and its relation with sub period lord and vice versa. 

Wearing gomed of good quality and heavy weight prevents paralysis, 
cancer, intestinal ailments and empowers the nervous system. Gomed 
along with Indian coral can also prevent widowhood provided suggested 
intelligently by any experienced and learned astrologer. 


Who should wear: 


Gomed suits persons who are in jobs of gains of windfall nature. Gomed 
should be worn by those who are suffering from childlessness due to 
‘sarp shap' in the birth chart. Stomach ailments and kidney problems get 
also minimised. If there is any problem connected with kidney, gomed 
may be worn with ‘daahine firang' (upratna or semiprecious stone). 
It should be distinctly noted that the prescription of Gomed must 
be made very carefully. The planets that are conjoined with Rahu and 


REMEDIES THROUGH GEM STONES 541 


their dispositiors must also be taken into consideration. Gomed of a good 
quality and heavy weight may also be suggested to those who are 
suffering from 'Kaalsarp Yoga’ or 'Sarp Yoga’. However, placement of 
Rahu should not be in 8" and 12", Gomed gives best result if Rahu joins 
the 3ra, 10m, 11" and 9m house. 


Compatibility: 


Gomed can be worn with coral, ruby and pearl but should not be worn 
with blue sapphire, cat's eye and emerald. Many gems should not be 
worn together as "too many cooks spoil the food". We have always 
advised one or two gems only to be worn in appropriate fingers, on 
suitable days and nakshatras. 


How to wear: 


It should be worn in middle finger of either hand and this should be used 
along with a red Coral. Gomed should be worn on Wednesday or 
Saturday as the case may be. If Rahu is placed in the sign of Jupiter, 
Mars or Sun, it should be worn in gold otherwise in silver ring. 

The best colour of gomed is that of honey and it should be fully 
transparent. Blackish brown or blackish red coloured gomeds do not 
give appropriate effects. Indian Gomed, which are also commonly 
known as Gaya Ka Gomed, are not good and do not give desired results. 
Gomed of Ceylon are certainly better and those of Burma are of the best 
quality. 

Prescription of gomed and cat's eye is the toughest task, as regards 
finding out the suitable gemstone. It is therefore again advised that 
gomed should be prescribed only after proper examination of the birth 
chart and careful judgement of the position of Rahu, so that the full 
benefits may be obtained. 


CAT'S EYE 


Composition: 


It is a very costly gem. It is composed of Glucina —19.8%, Alumina - 
80.2%. It is very hard gem of hardness 8.5% and specific gravity of 3.5- 
3.8. It emits hottest infra red cosmic rays. 

Some years ago a cat's eye was found weighing 1876 carats in Sri 
Lanka. Other cat's eye weighing 66 carats and 45 carats are in Wash- 
ington and London respectively and are considered to be the biggest 
polished stones of cat's eye. 


342 AN INSIGHT INIO KUJA DOSHA 


Benefits: 


This gem has magical power in healing Vayu, Pitta and Kapha. Ketu 
sometimes gives mysterious diseases, which baffle the skill of the 
medical profession. Cat's eye cures mania, nterine disease, aches, skin 
disease, tumour, paralysis, epilepsy, rheumatoid and degenerative arthri- 
tis, cancer, spondylitis etc. It serves the wearer as a protective shield and 
guards him against secret enemies, accidents and weapons. It also keeps 
the evil sprits away. It gives marvellous results to businessmen and has 
the power to revive a dead business. 

Persons, who have black money, if wear cat's eye then it bounces 
them to the limit of sky and then strikes them to the gronnd. It may cause 
death, murder etc. as the placement of Ketu may be in the birth chart. 

In our view, good cat's eye makes the life litigation free. When a 
cat's eye suits well it provides mental peace and more wealth. It removes 
the threats of dangerous diseases like AIDS, cancer, leprosy, TB, breast 
cancer, diseases of the uterus etc. 

Environmental maladjustment is also rectified by cat's eye as well 
as it infuses metaphysical speed into humans. Cat's eye provides mental 
peace, divine grace and confers long life. 

It may make a person multimillionaire, throngh unrighteons deeds, 
with a snre and certain downfall. It does miracles, if suits the native, 
and can make one multimillionaire or equal to king, in one way or the 
other. 


Who should wear: 


If Ketu joins 3ra, 4m, 9", 10" and 11" house, Cat's eye will be useful. 
If Ketu is posited in 4th house, particularly in Cancer, especially with 
the Sun, the native is bound to suffer from heart problem. In such cases 
where Ketu is tenanted in 4"" house one should be advised to wear cat's 
eye of good quality, after proper testing, to prevent any ailment related 
to heart region. In number of cases heart problem disappeared after 
wearing cat's eye where ketu had occupied the 4th house. 

Cat's eye was suggested to famous film actor Mr. Amitabh Bachhan 
in the 1999 when I happen to meet him. It did miracles when wom in 
locket around his neck. He again came out of the problems and became 
powerful and successful in the industry and in limelight. 


How to wear: 


It is worn ia the 3ra finger of right hand. 


REMEDIES THROUGH GEM STONES 343 


Cat's eye gives it's favourable and unfavourable effects within few 
hours and should be wom after repeated tests just like Neelam. It has 
amazing effects like Neelam, provided it suits the subject. However, 
testing is essential and it should be done in same manner, as explained 
for Blue Sapphire. However, Cat's eye gives best results if worn early 
in the morning if Aswini Magha or Moola nakshatra are rising, free from 
Bhadra. This may also be worn on Sunday or Tuesday, in silver or gold, 
if Ketu falls in the sign of Sun, Mars or Jupiter. It should worn in gold 
otherwise in silver or in a pendent. We wam readers not to wear Cat's 
eye without the advice of any expert astrologer who knows thoroughly 
the art of prescribing stones and understands the gems deeply. 


Compatibility: 


Cat's eye is the antidote of Pearl, therefore it should never be worn with 
Pearl, otherwise the effects of pearl will be neutralised. Cat's eye of best 
quality is the costliest gemstone. Wearing of ruby along with cat's eye 
will promote the positive effects of cat's eye in regard to heart region. 

There are many gems but have little medicinal value, for complete 
cure of diseases are not possible only by gems. So, they should be used 
as additional source of medication. Gems must be used as second line 
of prevention and control against the disease. 


THE USE OF GEM STONES IN MARRIAGE 


In modern era many marriages are problematic and troublesome. There 
are obstacles in the settlement of a few marriages due to adverse 
planetary influences. It is believed that Venus is the significator of 
marriage for males where as Mars and Sun signify marriage for females. 
If these planets are afflicted due to negative aspect, placement or 
conjunction, the marriage will be delayed, denied or obstructed. Due to 
adverse planetary vibrations marriages are either broken or one faces the 
tragedy of loss of life partner. Stones do play a benefic role in prevention 
of obstacles and problems in marriage. The horoscope should be 
examined carefully before suggesting any remedial gem. Prescription of 
incorrect gemstone may multiply the adversity and wearing of suitable 
gemstone will nullify the tensions, obstruction, and frustration due to 
one's marriage. Here. one must remember that stones for the rectification 
of adversely placed planets should never be used. It is found that Coral 
(Moonga) is generally suggested to mangli girls. This is highly objec- 
tionable and harmful as well. If Mars occupies the 8" house, wearing 
of Moonga or coral will further intensify the adversity caused by Mars. 


344 AN INSIGHT INIO KUJA DOSHA 


It must be very carefully noted that gemstones enhance the strength of 
the concerning planet. It is a wrong impression among many so-called 
astrologers that gemstone makes the planet favourable. It is believed that 
by wearing gemstone of even adversely placed planet the negative effect 
and problems regarding that planet disappear and that planet starts 
behaving in a favourable direction. In many books on "GEMS" it has 
been suggested like that and we strongly object such a wrong way of 
prescribing gemstone. If Rahu is placed in the 5" house, the prescription 
of gomed will further intensify the adverse results of Rahu in the 5 
house. This should be understood in the same way for all other planets 
and their conceming gem. If Sun is placed in the 4" house and is aspected 
by Satum or is conjoined with Rahu or Ketu, wearing of stone for Rahu 
will expedite marriage. If Venus is afflicted in the 7" house due to 
conjunction of Rahu, Mars, Ketu, Moon, the Sun or Satum, one will be 
highly benefited and will lead a life full of conjugal bliss provided he 
wears the Diamond or its substitute Opal. The auspicious results will 
further be multiplied in regard to children, wealth, profession, property, 
comfort, luxury, happiness and fame in addition to conjugal bliss, if the 
ascendant is Aquarius or Capricom where Venus happens to be a 
Yogakaarka. 


Saturn causes delay in marriage and it is a planet that has separative 
tendency. Saturn does play negative role in many birth charts. A few 
remain unmarried or their marriages are delayed so much that they lose 
all excitement. There are a few who suffer from miserable married life 
leading to divorce due to separative tendency of Saturn. In such cases 
the where Saturn occupies the 7'" house or the ascendant, 4" or 12 
house etc. one shonld not wear Blue Sapphire. On the contrary, Blue 
Sapphire or Neelam will be useful for the persons bom in Taurus, Libra, 
Capricom and Aquarius ascendant provided Saturn is well placed in 34, 
6", 10" or 1 I" house etc. to nullify the adversity and to get best result 
of Satum. For Scorpio ascendant, Moon happens to be the 9"" lord and 
if placed in the 7" house under aspect or conjunction of any malefic 
planet, the Pearl should be suggested to get a beautiful wife, early 
marriage and happy married life. 

Yellow Sapphire i.e. Pukhraj is mostly suggested by astrologers for 
prevention of delay in marriage. Jupiter is the significator of marriage 
for females, according to certain schools of thought. Without proper 
judgement of the birth chart so called astrologers advise Pukhraj for 
unmarried females whose marriages are obstructed due to one or the 
other reason. Wearing Pukhraj is not always beneficial. This is univer- 


REMEDIES THROUGH GEM STONES S45 


sally taken for granted that Pukhraj will be useful, for all females alike, 
or if they are facing problems in marriage. If Libra or Taurus is the 
ascendant and Jupiter occupies the 6m or 8m or 12" house, Pukhraj 
should not be suggested. Emerald and Ruby are the costliest gems 
provided these are of the best quality. Ruby should be wom if 7i lord 
is the Sun and that is aspected or conjoined by malefics. Wearing Ruby 
will strengthen the Sun and obstacles will automatically be reduced and 
that will prevent one from all problems regarding 7 house. Same 
situation will arise when the Sun occupies the ascendant, 2nd, 3rd, 10m, 
or I]"" house but the Sun is afflicted. One will be benefited by using 
Ruby not only in regard to marriage but also for other spheres of life. 
This may be noted that the Sun and Moon always have concern with 
marriage. If these planets are afflicted, problems or delay in marriage 
is bound to come even if the 7in and 2nd house are well disposed. Emerald 
is a stone, which is wom to make the Mercury strong. Mercury is the 
significator of brain, intelligence and illegitimate marriages. Affliction 
of Mercury creates havoc in marriage. Mercury also plays a vital role 
in performing more than one marriage. Many times there is a secret wife 
and illegitimate children where it is afflicted in regard to conceming 
houses. It may also be noted that Emerald must not be worm by newly 
married couples as it brings impotence. This is the best stone for student, 
researchers, advocates, saints, priests, and astrologers etc., if Mercury 
is well fortified but weak. Gomed and Cat's eye should be used only 
if these planets occupy 3rd, 4"", 9n, 10m, and 11" honses, or if these 
planets are afflicted by Mars or Satum or luminaries. Thus the prescrip- 
tion of stone is not an easy task as the so-called astrologers are doing 
it today. Gems are quite costly and require a heavy amount for their 
purchase. It is always advisable to consult any scholarly astrologer before 
weating any gemstone, instead of wearing stones on the advise of half 
baked quacks and ignorant astrologers who do not even know that the 
gemstones of the planet, who occupies the 6tn, 8th or 12" house, should 
never be wom. If the planet occupies the left side of the horoscope the 
stones should in the right hand and vice-versa. We are not in favour of 
wearing very small stone of 3 rattis or the like except Diamond, Blue 
Sapphire and Cats eye. All other stones should be wom of more than 
6.5 rattis of weight, in gold. Moonga, Gomed, Cats eye may be worm 
in silver or gold alike. But Pearl, Blue Sapphire should be wom in silver 
only whereas Diamond is best to wear in platinum or white gold. 


The stones should be wom early in the morning within 48 minutes 
after the sunrise. The stone or its ring should be kept in unboiled pure 


546 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


milk of cow with equal amount of Ganga jal, honey and curd, one day 
before, in the night. The gem should be taken out in the morning and 
washed properly with the common water and thereafter by Ganga jal. 
Purify the ring by reciting Vedic mantra of the concerning planet for at 
Jeast 1100(11 mallas) times and take little water in right hand and throw 
it over the ring. Thereafter, perform shodshopchar pujan, take the ring 
in your right hand and touch it by your forehead ,with the prayer of 
fulfilment of your desire, wear it thereafter in the concerning finger or- 
around the neck in the locket as the case may be. 


avat ey: far ait ta arat a ufsa: 1 
a etad werated suerte wet Aer 1s 


Acharya Chanakya says that such parents are like enemy 
to their children who do not educate them, because illiterate 
persons do not fit in the gathering of intelligent men like 
a crow would stand out in the assembly of swan. 


CHAPTER 5.9 


USING COLOURS 
CONSONANT WITH PLANETS 


Sir Isaac Newton were attracted by the variety of colours who in 

1666 propounded a theory that while light when transmitted 
through a triangular prism reflects a band of even colours commonly 
known as VIBGYOR viz. Violet, Indigo, Blue, Green, Yellow, Orange 
and Red. Its a well known fact that all living organisms on land require 
sunlight for their survival, whether be plants or animals. Our body is 
made up of cells and each cell has seven colours of the Sun in their 
composition. To explain the fact that colours do play the most vital role 
in our survival plant cell can be referred. In a’ planet cell, coloured 
pigments like plastids are present viz. Chloroplast, Leucoplast and 
Chromoplasts. We know that without a green coloured pigment named 
chlorophyll, present on the Thyllakoid wall of Chloroplasts, plants 
cannot manufacture their own food in the presence of sunlight. Leuco- 
plasts and Chromoplasts provide colours to the flowers, which attracts 
insects and is essential for the exchange of gametes. 


\ ince primitive ages colours have fascinated human souls. Men like 


In order to be fit, fine and healthy, equilibrium of these colours is 
required to be maintained in our body. When this equilibrium gets 
disturbed we suffer from diseases. Retrieval of colours in our body can 
be done by use of gems, if one can understand the colour therapy 
precisely and properly. The white sunlight is made up of seven colours 
as explained above. Deficiency of one or the other colour develops in 


548 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


our body when we suffer from a particular ailment. In other words when 
we undergo negative planetary vibrations of any planet the problems of 
that concerning organ start troubling us. That organ will have one or the 
other colour and will thus come under the rulership of some planet. 
Somehow if we can understand it properly and reclaim the damage or 
disturbance of that colour in our body through a specific gem, recovery 
will be quick and we will be free from ailment. For this it is essential 
to understand the colour therapy accurately. 

Suppose Saturn is playing a negative role in one's birth chart, the 
individual may suffer from nervous disorder, neurological problems, 
gastric disturbance, windy complaints, rheumatic pains, arthritis, gout, 
numbness in body, paralysis, spondylitis and asthma etc. It means that 
blue colour in our body is not functioning properly. For proper function 
of the blue colour and to makeup its defictency or to adjust it properly 
(if it is more or less than its normal requirement) one should use yellow 
colour. Depending upon various other factors white colour may also 
normalise the function of blue colour. Yellow sapphire of good quality 
and deep yellow colour should be wom in that case. As soon as the 
sunrays come in contact with yellow sapphire the radiation will begin 
resulting into proper functioning of blue colour. We know that blue 
colour represents all the nerves in the body and if Saturn is adverse, the 
function of nervous system in the body gets disturbed. This causes above 
mentioned troubles and ailments. Use of yellow sapphire will prevent, 
cure or control these diseases because yellow colour cuts the negative 
vibrations of blue colours and blue colour cuts the negative vibration 
of yellow colour. For the malfunctioning nervous system yellow sapphire 
will be useful whereas for weak nervous system blue sapphire would 
be required. Before prescribing blue sapphire it should be tested properly. 
If Satum is well placed but weak, it gives rise to weak nervous system. 
Blue sapphire will give amazing effects. As its result the native will start 
working, thinking, moving, behaving properly, nicely, quickly and 
smartly when weak nervous system will gain strength. However, if 
afflicted and malefic Satum is adversely placed in the 8" or 12" or 4% 
honse, the equilibrium of the blue colour will be disturbed and that can 
be balanced by yellow colour i. by yellow sapphire. It can be 
understood in a similar way for the colours and concerning gems. 


Query may emanate in the mind of readers that if this is so then 
why can't we wear only a glass piece of that particular colour. Let us 
explain. The stones are composed of certain ingredients. The radiation 
of sunlight through these creates favourable or unfavourable vibrations, 


USING COLOURS CONSONANTS WITH PLANETS 549 


which influence the systems of our body quite powerfully. We know that 
an exposure of human body to X-rays may create tumours. In the same 
way the effect of radiation through gems can be understood. We know 
that exposing Na+ and K+ elements to ultra-violet light release electrons. 
But if UV rays come in contact of other elements same results will not 
be visible. Similarly, the contact of Sunrays with real gems will give long 
lasting effects through radiation and vibrations. 

We explain here the colour therapy that can do miracle, if used 
properly under expert guidance. Not only disease can be cured but the 
fortune, fame, wealth, honour, prosperity, progress, popularity, smart- 
ness, and beauty will also be enhanced. One will get rid of carelessness, 
laziness, lethargy, dullness, misfortune, depression, distress, disappoint- 
ment etc. So much so that one may even come out of insanity. This is 
based on our practical experience of 30 years in the field of astrology 
and various gems. 


RED COLOUR 


Planet Mars, the commander in chief, and the Sun, The king of the 
universe, are the ruler of red colour. Heat and warmth, fire, passion, Wats, 
quarrel, destruction and devastation are governed by red colour. Red 
colour is also the symbol of danger. Police station is painted red; police 
person, army men use red cap, as red colour gives power and authority. 
It is also very useful to avoid dangers and accidents. Every where in the 
globe red colour is used for stopping quarrels, to extinguish fire and to 
maintain law and order. People who give preference to red colour 
become the head of an institution, ruler, a good administrator and chief 
of any organisation. People who are governed by red colour are highly 
energetic, bold, optimistic, high spirited, noble, large hearted and 
generous. Deficiency of red colour in our body gives various diseases 
like anaemia, diminished vision, indigestion, loss of health and glow, 
headache, mental tension, and physical disability. We know that the red 
colour is a good absorber of heat so people living in cold countries like 
Russia and England have school dress made of red colour. Red colour 
plays significant role in healing wounds that is why surgical wards of 
hospitals generally have red blankets to ensure early healing. But, red 
colour is very dangerous for mad or insane person as it makes the case 
more acute. Use of red blankets, window screen, bed sheets, wall 
colouring etc. is highly beneficial for person suffering from small pox. 
There will also be no scars and pits on exposure to red colour. Red Coral 
is very useful for lazy, slow and lethargic persons. 


550 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


Red colour is very useful for all ladies. It is Mars who protects them. 
It is highly beneficial to all ladies to nse red dresses, red kumkum, red 
Coral etc. For ladies red colour symbolises safety and protection. Ladies 
nse red vermilion to protect the lives of their husband. Animal nature 
in man is governed by Mars as Mars indicates sensations, desire and 
feelings. Mars rules over first and eighth sign of the zodiac, viz. Aries 
and Scorpio, so red colour governs life and death, i. e generation and 
destruction. Red colour signifies sailor, solider, barber, surgeon, chemist, 
butcher, dentist, carpenter, engineer, professor, doctors, politicians, and 
ministers etc. 

Red colour can be nsed by the persons who are running under the 
influence of major or sub period of Sun or Mars, irrespective of their 
placement. Persons born in Aries, Scorpio, Cancer, Leo and Aquarins 
will be benefited by red colour but Leo and Scorpio born persons may 
get the best results of the red colour becanse the Sun and Mars both 
play vital role for these ascendants. Whenever the native is under the 
vibration of the Sun or Mars or both, he may wear red, pink, maroon, 
rasbhari or peach red coloured garments. Not only this, bed sheets, pillow 
covers, curtains, paint of the walls shonld be of the same colour. We 
know few ayurvedic vaidyas who treat their patients by the theory of 
colour therapy. However, red colour is a colour of success, enthusiasm, 
high spirits, joy, zest and zeal. But the persons governed by Saturn should 
not use red colour and the like. Sun's rays also contain red colonr, which 
is useful for lively feeling, enthusiasm, encouragement, energy, enough 
heat, and excitement in the body. Excess of 'Rajo Guna’ is present in 
red colour. Red colonr also improves the blood circulation in arteries 
and rectifies heart function. Water filled in red colonred bottle may be 
used as tonic to cure skin ailments. 


BLUE COLOUR 


Jupiter and Venus rule over the colonr blue. It symbolises religion, art, 
music, tranquillity and peace. It is the colonr of chastity and loyalty. 
Passion and intense anger can be subsided by blue colour. Jupiter 
controls light blue and Venus controls dark blne. Blue is the most vital 
colour for material prosperity. Blue is a cold colour so bedroom should 
be painted blue for quick sleep. Blue colonr denotes a mild and 
harmonious nature that is why it is very useful for tranquillity for insane 
persons. Blue ray therapy is also used to cure insanity and madness. Blue 
dresses are used by women suffering from hysteria, nervous disorder and 
fits etc. Persons governed by blne colour are influenced by love, beauty, 


USING COLOURS CONSONANTS WITH PLANETS 551 


charm, and gaiety and leave no efforts left in fashioning the surroundings 
comfortable. They are generally courteous and affectionate. They are 
always influenced by friends and associates. They take keen interest and 
delight in social intercourse, all that pertains to social life. However, they 
are lazy, lethargic, restless and careless. Blue colour rules glands such 
as endocrine or exocrine, and fats. Deficiency of blue colour causes 
goitre, harshness, laryngitis, throat troubles, typhoid, cholera, scarlet 
fever, plague, apoplexy, hysteria, epilepsy, palpitation, jaundice, diar- 
rhoea, dysentery, inflamed eyes, toothache, tonsillitis etc., therefore blue 
colour should be used by those suffering from these ailments. 

Persons bom in Libra, Taurus, Capricom, or Aquarius ascendants 
will be benefited largely by the use of blue colour in their daily life. 
Persons, who are ninning under the vibration of Saturn or are running 
under the major or sub period of Saturn, should wear the garments of 
dark blue or light blue colour, except during 'saadhe saati'. So much 
so that their bed sheets, pillow covers or paint of the room should also 
be of blue colour irrespective of the placement of Saturn in the birth 
chart. Only very few persons know that blue is the most soothing colour 
for love affairs and love marriages. It's a substitute of blue sapphire, 
Lajvart and Firoza. Those who cannot afford to purchase these stones 
must try to get the favourable vibration of Saturn by using blue colour 
in various ways in their day-to-day life. Blue colour also denotes peace, 
mercy, kind thoughts and liberal attitude. Blue colour is cold in its 
composition. This reduces the heat, excitement, anger, impulsive attitude 
and hasty nature. For many such diseases like depression and colour 
blindness, the water filled in blue coloured bottle should be used to cure 
the disease. 


GREEN COLOUR 


Green colour is controlled by planet Mercury. Green colour represents 
the quality of fragrance and the element of the earth. Green colour 
symbolises hope, spring and youth. Persons influenced or governed by 
this colour always want to live as young or are full of youth. They also 
prefer to have only youthful companies so they are rather irresponsible, 
restless and usually get bored of every thing. They are happy-go-lucky 
people, careless and carefree persons. Mercury governs green colour and 
Mercury is a young prince, full of youth; so he is very fast in his action. 
Mercury is the planet of plurality and change. People governed by green 
colour are capable of handfing unfavourable conditions. They have 
commercialism in their instinct. Person governed by Mercury are very 


552 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


fast in their action, thought and talk, which produces ingenuity, impres- 
stve speech and commercial ability. Since Mercury denotes mental 
capacity and fertility of brain. therefore, in absence of green rays, we 
are attacked by mental disturbance, mental illness, and hysteria. 

The Green traffic signals are for start and go, so green is the colour 
of forwarding and go ahead sprit. Therefore it also denotes growth. 
Persons suffering from mental disease, insanity get sound and peaceful 
sleep if they wear green dress, use green bed sheets, etc. Gastric ulcer, 
dysentery, diarrhoea, peptic ulcer, cirrhosis of liver, fever, asthma, 
headache, heart troubles etc. are diseases due to deficiency of green 
colour in our body. Stones like Emerald and Aquamarine have abundant 
source of green colour to make up for the insufficiency in our body. 
Green colour refines talented parts of our body and it also governs 
wisdom, intellect and thinking mind. 

Gemini, Virgo, Libra, Leo and Capricorn ascendant born people will 
be certainly benefited by light or dark green colour as Mercury is a 
benefic planet for these ascendants. Colour of Mercury is green so use 
of green colour will certainly benefit the native. Those who are under 
the influence of Mercury or are running under major or sub period of 
Mercury may certainly be benefited by the use of green colour, irrespec- 
tive of the placement of Mercury in the birth chart. Green colour can 
be used in different ways to cure diseases like fever, cancer, ulcer, female 
diseases etc. Green colour signifies hope, prosperity and intelligence. 


VIOLET COLOUR 


Violet colour is controlled by planet Saturn. Element of air and soothing 
touch are of Violet colour. Persons governed by violet colour are very 
patient in their actions, thinking and attitude. They are serious and 
reserve. But they are also very lazy, lethargic and indolent, as Saturn 
is lame. Patiently working, savings, preserving stability, thrift, plodding, 
endurance and self-control are certain qualities which people governed 
by violet have. One special liking they have is that they usually prefer 
cold eating stuff rather than hot. These persons do have a very strong 
desire for knowledge. Gambling, risks and speculation should be avoided 
by these persons, as it may lead to heavy debts and losses. Satu acts 
as a bridge between spiritual instinct and animal instinct in men. One 
quality of Saturn is that it gives perfection, sophistication and refinement 
but Saturn also delays, creates hindrance and retards so that all men 
achieve perfection. Saturn rules over destiny so he governs all actions 
of humanity and qualities like responsibility, accuracy, precision and 


USING COLOURS CONSONANTS WITH PLANETS 553 


detiniteness, Deficiency of violet colour in our body gives mental illness, 
fainting. fits, vomiting headache, earache. nervous disorders, gastric 
ulcer, paralysis, baldness and arthritis etc. Violet colour satisfies nerve 
hunger. 

Capricorn, Aquarius, Taurus and Libra ascendant born people may 
be benefited by the use of violet colour. They must use violet in their 
daily life as a routine as they must use violet coloured garments, curtains, 
bed sheets, and pillow cover. Walls of the room may also be painted 
violet to get the tranquillity, peace and happiness in life. 


ORANGE 


Moon is controller of Orange colour. Its element is water and has the 
quality of touch. This colour represents high aspirations. It is the colour 
of god of marriage that is why marriage dresses are orange in colour. 
Married ladies wear vermilion on their forehead to show that they are 
married. Pearl -is the stone for Moon. Pearl is white in colour but when 
viewed through microscope it reflects orange colour. Moon governs the 
first 7 years of life and is responsible for child mortality. Moon controls 
and regulates the flow of energy in our body. Persons governed by this 
colour are self- sufficient, good tempered, tolerant, and kind. They hate 
petty quarrels and silly arguments. This colour gives intelligence and has 
social temperament, as it wants success. They should not invest in 
gambling or any sort of speculations as the outcome will not be 
satisfactory. Pearl is cold stone and releases cold waves of orange colour 
which are capable of curing diseases arising out of heat. It has been found 
magical in healing chronic asthma, rheumatism, phlegmatic fevers, 
bronchitis, wet cough, gout, inflammation of kidney, prolapse, gall 
stones, mental debility etc. Deficiency of orange colour causes fevers, 
cough and cold, liver and uterine troubles, dysentery, insanity and 
diarrhoea, etc. 


Orange colour is quite beneficial for persons bom in Taurus, Libra, 
Scorpio, Capricom and Pisces ascendant. In fact, the orange colour is 
beneficial for all as it gives peace of mind and controls hypertension. 
Those, who are running under the vibration of Moon, are advised to use 
orange coloured garments, curtains, pillow covers, bed sheets etc. to 
receive maximum advantage of Moon and to curtail the evils. If one is 
suffering from any mental trouble, minor insanity or depression, he 
should take the water kept in orange bottle in sunlight from dusk to ° 
dawn. 


554 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHA 


YELLOW COLOUR 


Mars and Jupiter are the controller of yellow colour. Its element is fire 
and is present in the body in the form of thermal equilibrium. Red Coral ‘ 
has abundant source of supplying this colour. It denotes intellectuals and 
scientific brain. This colour is used to disperse evil. It is very useful for 
money, luxury and material prosperity. Financial success can be attained 
by using the combination of yellow and green colour, as it being the 
colour of planet Jupiter, also removes poverty and adversity. It prevents 
unhealthy marital relationships and also secures married life. Persons 
influenced by this colour are ambitious, courageous, bold, honest, 
friendly, generous and charitable. They are positive in their attitude. 
Deficiency of yellow colour causes indigestion, flatulence, liver troubles, 
stomach troubles, jaundice, cirrhosis of liver, pleurisy, blood disorders 
and mental depression. 


INDIGO 


Venus is the controller of Indigo colour. Its element is water and is 
present in the body in the form of lymph and sperms. Its stone is 
Diamond and when it is viewed through a prism it appears indigo-blue 
in colour. Deficiency of this colour in our body causes impotency, 
diabetes, venereal diseases, disease of private parts, eczema, sore throat, 
skin eruptions, uterine disorder, genital problems etc. Persons governed 
by this colour like musical pursuits and are artistic in nature. They are 
generally sympathetic and upright, friendly, amiable, sociable, fond of 
family, children, and fond of pets, beauty, pleasure and luxury. 

For Libra, Capricorn, Aquarius, Taurus, and Leo born people indigo 
colour is quite profitable. This colour is more useful for males whose 
marriage is getting delayed or who are facing a miserable married life. 
Those who are passing through the vibration of Venus or running under 
the major or sub period of Venus should use indigo colour in their daily 
life. They should wear the clothes of indigo colour and must use curtain, 
bed sheets, and pillow cover of indigo colour including the paint of the 
walls. Those who cannot afford diamond, white sapphire, Jerkon, opal, 
‘haathi daant’ or 'shankh’, should certainly use indigo colour in routine 
life and those who wear above mentioned gemstones may also use these 
colour for added advantage. 

Many ailments can be cured with astonishing results if different 
colours of sunlight are made to fall through a lens on the subject. 
However, this should be done only under the guidance of any scientist 


USING COLOURS CONSONANTS WITH PLANETS 555 


in colour therapy otherwise it may give negative results as well, if the 
“quantity and intensity of the light differs than the required. 

Thus, these seven colours, which emerge from white light of the Sun, 
are seven colours, which if combined again give white colour. How do 
these colours give benefits and cure ailments of day-to-day life, has been 
explained. We have furnished humble opinion about colour therapy and 
the research scholars in the field should make further exploration. 


a faereq aft -a fart artsfe a@ ftrecrdtr/ 
walaq afta fret ad yer verertq // 
Acharya Chanakya says that one must not have blind faith on 
good friends even, what to say of confiding in bad friends, as 


there always remains a chance that he would disclose your se- 
crets on being annoyed. 


CHAPTER 5.10 


REMEDIES FOR MARS 
FROM ‘LALKITAB’ 


Simple and Effective 


Lal Kitab is a very famous work, which deals with nine planets and 
houses in an absolutely novel way. The descriptions are not based on 
general or traditional astrology but the author has suggested very simple 
and practical remedies. Mars has also been discussed. 


These remedial measures involve no financial expenses and are very 


effective as well. We do not intend to go in the details of Lul Kitab but 
we would certainly like to mention a few important preventive measures 
for Mars as suggested in Lal Kitab. These remedial measures are given 
below: 


1. 


2. 


Po 


If the obstructing Mars is otherwise auspicious, throw some 
Batashas in the running water. It will give good results. 

If the obstructing Mars is otherwise inauspicious, throw some 
revadi (Sweets made of sesame and sugar) in running water. It 
reduces the inauspiciousness of Mars. 

Distribute sweet loaves among poor. 

Use regularly Aasan of deerskin to ward off the: evil of Mars. 
If Mars dosha is created by Mars in the 4" in the birth chart of 
the native; the health of mother, grand mother or mother-in-law is 
causing concern; there is no peace; financial losses are there; 
worries regarding marriage persist, the native must clean his teeth 


12. 


REMEDIES FOR MARS FROM *LALRITAB’ 557 


with the water of well daily in the moming. 


. Pour sweet milk on the roots of Banyan tree and put Tilak of the 


earth so soiled, this quickly relieves the illnesses of abdomen. 


. If there is danger of fire, keep few empty bags of sugar on the 


rooftop and sprinkle some sugar also there. 


. If there is danger to life of wife or son due to illness, keep an 


earthen pot filled with honey in crematorium. 
To cure any prolonged illness, maximise the use of deerskin and 
hang few iron nails on the southern door of the house. 


. If Mars occupies the eighth house and the native is suffering due 


to his rivals or his health is adverse for long time, meat should be 
given to dog with sweet bread. 


. If afflicted Mars occupies the 11" house, then ancestral wealth 


damage the native. The native remains under debts. Such a native 
should keep a pet dog in his house. 

If Mars falls in the 12'* house and Mercury falls in the 3", 8", 
9 or the 12! house, then the native has to suffer the adversities 
of the 12" house like losses, sufferings due to money, failures of 
undertakings, and unhappy married life due to extra marital 
relationship of either of the partner. The native should donate milk 
and honey by mixing together. The native should also give sweet 
bread to dogs. He should also offer prasad of Batasha at Hanuman 
temple. 


These are only few remedies. Lal Kitab has dealt with such simple 


remedies in different situations of Mars in any horoscope. Hereunder we 
give remedies from this wonderful work for various placements of Mars, 
from ascendant to the twelfth house, in any chart. Thereafter remedies 
specific to all the 12 ascendants, with every position of Mars causing 
Kuja dosha, are underlined separately. 


REMEDIES FOR ILLS OF MARS IN VARIOUS HOUSES 


In Lagna 


2. 
3. 


Do not accept any thing free of cost or in charity. Doing so will 
be equal to taking poison with the milk. 

Never tell a lie. : 

Ivory things will be harmful to the native. Do not keep them in | 
the house. 

Company of Fakirs or Sadhus wil} not be auspicious for the family. 
Observe remedial measures for Jupiter, i. e article related with 


558 


AN INSIGHT INIO KUJA DOSHAS 


Jupiter, e.g. gold, pulse of gram or things made of Besan may be 
donated in a temple. Doing so will reduce ill effects of Mars. 


. Observe remedial measure for Venus ie. articles related with Venus 


such as ghee, curd, cloth, camphor or scented things may be buried 
under earth. 


In The Second Honse 


AWN 


. Keep a red coloured handkerchief with you. 


Keep deerskin in the house. 

Distribute jaggery and wheat to children at noon. 

Never show disrespect to your mother or grand mother. 

Donate articles related to Moon such as silver, rice, milk, white 
substances etc. or keep them in temple or other religious places. 
Build a well at your in-law’s place, if there is none; or mn a pyau. 


. Never insult your brother; rather help him when needed. Insulting 


him would open the doors for your decline. 


. Rear and serve your relatives or near and dear ones. Rearing others 


will cause prosperity. 


In the Third house 


AR WN 


. Keep ivory things with you. 


Wear silver ring, without joint, in the small finger of the left hand. 


. Never trade in sugar or honey. 
. Do not be obstinate or contumacious. 
. Don't indulge in revelry. 


In the Fourth house 


. Serve the monkeys, mother and sadhus. 


Keep away from black ot one-eyed man or from him who has his 
limbs affected, or who is childless. 

Keep ivory things with you. 

Feed birds with sweet things. 

Close the southern door of the house with an iron nail. 

Sleep on deerskin to avoid long illness. 

Keep a square piece of silver with you. 

Clean teeth with water every moming. 

Observe remedies for Moon or pour sweet milk on the roots of 
a Banyan tree. 


. Put Tilak on the forehead from the soil so watered. 
. If incidents of fire do occur frequently, keep empty bags of sugar 


on the roof of your factory, shop or house. 


12. 


13. 


REMEDIES FOR MARS FROM ‘LALKiTAB’ 559 


If you are issue less, or the wife or son is suffering, bury a honey 
filled earthen pot in the crematorium. 

Install or place things of planets friendly to Mars like Jupiter, Sun 
or Moon. Things related with Sun are Copper, Jaggery, Wheat, 
Monkey, Flies etc.; with Moon well, horse, silver, pearl etc.; with 
Jupiter Gold, elderly person, sadhus, pukhraj (Topaz) etc. Wear a 
ring made of a mixture of gold, copper and silver. 


In the Fifth house 


1. 
2. 


i 


Plant a neem tree in the house. 

Have good moral character. 

Keep water at night below the head and drop it in the flowerpot 
in the morning. 

Donate milk. 

Do not indulge in adultery. 

Keep your elders with you. 


. Must perform Shraadh for your elders. 


In the Sixth house 


IAN SW 


. Observe remedies of Saturn. 
. Distribute salt on the birth of male child. Do not celebrate 


birthdays. 


. Propitiate Lord Ganesh. 


Keep good moral character. 
Worship young girls and get their blessings. 


. Donating milk, rice and silver to young girls would be auspicious. 
. Observe remedies of Moon and Mercury for children. Give respect 


to mother, daughter, sister and aunts, and do something for them. 


In the Seventh house 


\. 
2. 
3. 


4. 
5. 


© wD 


Keep good moral character. 

Help the children of brother. 

Give sweets to sister, daughter, father's sister, mother's sister and 
wife's sister. 

Never plant creeping plant. 

If any sister, sister-in-law or widowed daughter is living along with, 
give sweet to them while going for work in the morning. 


. Sister should never go back without sweets whenever she comes. 
. Give red clothes to sister or father's sister. 
. Keeping solid silver in the house increases happiness and prosperity. 


Do not accept articles of Mercury in charity or free of cost. Do 


560 


10. 


I]. 


AN INSIGHT iNTO KUJA DOSHAS 


not plant trees with wide leaves. Do not keep dried flowers at home. 
Do not take meat or alcohol. Do not keep parrot or Myna nor their 
test should be there. Don't manufacture dye and don't keep goat 
or unsightly cow at home. Do not keep dry grass or hollow bamboo 
at home. Don't do the job of whitewashing. Doing all these will 
only cause ill effects of Mars. 

Using articles of Satum and Venus properly cures one of blood 
diseases and jaundice and the health remains good. 

Observe remedies for Saturn. Making and breaking a small wall 
continuously will give auspicious results. 


In the Eighth house 


1. 
2. 
3, 


4, 
5. 
6. 


Take blessings of widows. 

Observe remedies of Mars in 4" and 6" house simultaneously. 
Sweet loaves of bread. made in Zandoor, should be fed to dogs 
for forty or forty three days. 

Wear silver around the neck. 

Entrance of the houses should not be in south. 

Do not make furnace under the ground, at home. 


In the Ninth house 


AWRWN - 


. Serve your Bhabhi (brother's wife). 


Obey your elder brother and live with him. 
Keep red coloured cloth or handkerchief in the pocket. 
Drop articles related with Mercury in the well. 


. Donate articles related with Moon to a temple or Gurdwara. 


Bury things related with Venus. 


In the Tenth house 


1, 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 


Keep a pet deer. 

Take care not to spill boiling milk on the fire. 
Do not sell paternal properties. 

Do not sell gold of the house. 

Serve the issue less, black or one-eyed person. 


In the eleventh house 


I. 
2. 
3. 
4, 


Keep vermilion (sindoor) or honey in an earthen pot. 

Never sell paternal property. 

Wear Cat's eye or donate articles related with Ketu to a temple. 
Keep a pet dog. 


REMEDIES FOR MARS FROM ‘LALKITAB™ 561 


5. Births of son will give auspicious results. 
In the Twelfth house 


. Take honey the first thing in the morning. 

. The elder brother of the native should avoid wearing red clothes. 
. Do not keep with you articles related to Mars. 

Eat and serve sweet things. 

Give sweet loaves or milk mixed with jaggery to beggars or dog. 
Donate Batasha to temple or a religious place. 

. Keep the head covered by wearing a cap or pugree of khaki colour. 
. Grow a hair tuft. 

. Give milk to guests instead of water. 


COIDANARWN 


Lal Kitab’s remedies for Mangli dosha, for various lagnas: 
(Ascendant wise) 


For any lagna, Mangli dosha will be created, according to Lal Kitab, 
by five different placements of Mars in horoscope i.e. by Mars being 
in the 1$' house, in the 4" house, in 7'", 8" or the 12" house. ‘LalKitab’ 
prescribes remedies for all such placements in relation to various lagnas 
to ward off the evils of Mangli dosha. 


(A) FOR ARIES ASCENDANT: 


1. Mars in Ascendant: 
}. Keep red handkerchief with you. 
2. Keep monkeys as pet and serve them. 
3. Give sweets to daughter or sister. 
4. Feed dogs with sweet loaves. 
5. Wear Coral in copper or gold ring. 
2. Mars jn the 4" House: 
1. Never accept gifts or money from childless persons. 
2. Wear silver bangle with a copper nail. 
3. Employ servants in office or house. 
4. Keep monkeys as pet and serve them. 
5. Do not inhabit south facing house. 
3. Mars in the 7 House: 
Employ servants in office or house. 
Give sweets to danghter or sister daily. 
Wear Coral in copper or gold ring. 
Never speak lie or give false testimony. 
Visit aunt (maternal or paternal) or sister in law with sweets. 


ARWN - 


562 AN INSIGHT INIO KUJA DOSHAS 


4, Mars in the 8" House: 

Wear silver bangle with a copper nail. 
Throw sugar in running water. 

Do not inhabit south facing house. 
Serve widow. 

Wear silver ring without any joint. 


(B) FOR TAURUS ASCENDANT: 


1. Mars in Ascendant: 
1. Keep good character. 
2. Wife should wear silver bangles coloured red. 
3. Serve your wife as your mother, or maternal uncle. 
4. Keep red handkerchief with you. 
5. Do not accept things for free or in alms. 

2. Mars in the 4‘" House: 
]. Serve sister or daughter. 
2. Recite Hanuman Chalisa. 
3. Do not inhabit south facing house. 
4. Throw honey or vermilion in running water. 
5. Wear silver bangle with a copper nail. 

3. Mars in the 7'" House: 
]. Keep good character. 
2. Visit aunt (maternal or paternal) or sister-in-law with sweets. 
3. Recite Sunderkaand. 
4. Give sweets to daughter or sister daily. 

* 5. Wear coral in copper or gold ring. 

4. Mars in the 8" house: 
1. Do not inhabit south facing house. 
2. Do not drink wine. 
3. Do not eat fish or meat. 
4. Feed dogs with sweets loaves. 
5 
6. 


WRWN a 


Employ servants in office or house. 
Serve widow. 
5. Mars in the 12" House: 
Eat sweet things and feed others too. 
Wear silver ring without any joints in the left hand. 
Drink milk given by elder brother. 
Recite Gayatri or Durga Paath. 
Wear Coral in copper or silver ring. 


— 


URWN 


(C) 


REMEDIES FOR MARS FROM *LALKITAB’ 563 


FOR GEMINI ASCENDANT: 


. Mars in Ascendant: 


Wear Coral in copper or gold ring. 
Do not accept things for free or in alms. 
Keep good character. 
Distribute prasad offered to Hanumanji. 
Wife should wear silver bangles coloured red. 
Mars in the 4! House: 
1. Throw honey or vermilion in running water. 
2. Do not keep company with black, one-eyed, childless or bald 
persons. 
3. Wear silver bangle with a copper nail. 
4. Do not speak ill of any body. 
5. Do not inhabit south facing house. 
Mars in the 7** house: 
1. Make, and then break, a wall of raw bricks. 
2. Distribute prasad offered to Hanumanji. 
3. Serve your brother's children. 
4. Wear silver ring without any joints. 
5. Give sweets to daughter or sister. 


ARON 


. Mars in the 8 House: 


1. Wear silver bangle with a copper nail. 

2. Do not inhabit south facing house. 

3. Do not keep company with black, one-eyed or childless 

persons. 

4. Do not speak ill of any body. 

5. Serve widow. 
Mars in the 12!" House: 
Take honey the first thing in the moming. 
Distribute sweet food in the temples. 
Wife should wear silver bangles coloured red. 
Distribute sweets on happy occasions. 
Drink milk given by elder brother. 


WEY 


(D) FOR CANCER ASCENDANT: 


1. 


Mars in Ascendant: 

1. Employ servant in office or house. 

2. Recite Hanuman Chalisa. 

3. Do not accept things for free or in alms. 


564 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHAS 


4. Wear Coral in Copper or Gold ring. 
5. Wife should wear silver bangles coloured red. 
2. Mars in the 4in House: 
1. Do not inhabit south facing honse. 
Do not take money or land from childless person. 
Wear silver bangles with a copper nail. 
Serve monkeys. 
Do not speak ill of any body. 
3. Mars in the 7th House: 
1. Wife should wear silver bangles coloured red. 
2. Keep good character. 
3. Give sweets to daughter or sister daily. 
4. Make, and then break, a wall of raw bricks. 
5. Visit aunt (maternal or paternal) or sister-in-law with sweets. 
4, Mars in the 8'" House: 
Serve widows. 
Do not speak ill of any body. 
Wear silver bangles with a copper nail. 
Do not inhabit south facing house. 
Wear Coral in copper or gold ring. 
5. Mars in the 12 House: 
Do not keep rusted arms in the house. 
. Distribute Sweets. 
3. Offer Saunf and Mishri to guests, after food. 
4. Drink milk given by elder brother. 
5. Wear Coral in copper or gold ring. 


(E) FOR LEO ASCENDANT: 


1. Mars in Ascendant: 

1. Keep good character. 

2. Keep red handkerchief with you. 

3. Do not accept things free or in alms. 

4. Never speak lie or give false testimony. 

5. Do not keep elephant or ivory material. 
2. Mars in the 4'* House: 

1. Wife should wear silver bangles coloured red. 
Do not inhabit south facing house. 
Do not take money or land from childless person. 
Serve mother or equivalent lady. 
Wear Coral in copper or gold ring. 


AR WL 


AAR WN 


No — 


Ww kwon 


REMEDIES FOR MARS FROM ‘LALKITAB™ 565 


3. Mars in the 7" House: 
Keep good character. 
Rear your brother's children. 
Wear Coral in copper or gold ring. 
Do not drink wine. 
Do not eat fish or meat. 
Wife should wear silver bangles coloured red. 
4. Mars in the 8" House; 
1. Wear Coral in copper or gold ring. 
2. Do not inhabit south facing house. 
3. Serve widows. 
4. Do not speak ill of any body. 
5. Wear silver bangle with a copper nail. 
5. Mars in the 12" House: 
1. Distribute sweets. 
2. Do not drink wine. 
3. Do not eat fish or meat. 
4. Wife should wear silver bangles coloured red. 
5 
6 


DAARYNE 


Recite Gayatri or Durga Paath. : 
Offer prasad to Hanumanji. 


(¥) FOR VIRGO ASCENDANT: 


1. Mars in Ascendant: 
Do not keep elephant or ivory material. 
Recite Hanuman Chalisa. 
Serve elder brother or uncle-maternal or paternal. 
Do not speak lie. 
Do not accept alms. 
Wife should wear silver bangles coloured red. 
2. Mars in the 4 House: 
Do not take money or land from a childless person. 
Wear silver bangle with a copper nail. 
Throw honey or vermilion in running water. 
Do not keep company with black, one-eyed or bald persons. 
Do not inhabit south facing house. 
3. Mars in the 7" House: 
1. Wife should wear silver bangles coloured red. 
2. Give sweets to daughter or sister daily. 
3. Keep good character. 
4. Make, and then break, a wall of raw bricks. 


DANRWN 


ARON. 


566 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHAS 


5. Visit aunt (maternal or paternal) or sister in law with sweets. 
4. Mars in the 8 House: 

1. Do not inhabit south facing house. 

2. Do not speak il! of any body. 

3. Wear silver bangle with a copper nail. 

4. Get blessings of widow lady. 

5. Wife should wear silver bangles coloured red. 
5. Mars in the 12‘ House: 

1. Employ servants in office or house. 

2. Drink milk given by elder brother. 

3. Distribute prasad offered to Hanumanji. 

4. Distribute sweet food. 

5. Wife should wear silver bangles coloured red. 


(G) FOR LIBRA ASCENDANT: 


I. Mars in Ascendant: 

1. Wear Coral in Copper or Gold ring. 
Never speak lie or give false testimony. 
Do not accept things for free or in alms. 
Wife should wear silver bangles coloured red. 
. Do not keep elephant as a pet or ivory material with you. 
2. Mars in the 4“ House: 

1. Wear silver bangle with a copper nail. 

2. Do not inhabit south facing house. 

3. Serve mother or equivalent lady. 

4. Throw honey or vermilion in running water. 

5. Never take money or landed property from a childless person. 
3. Mars in the 7° House: 
Give sweets to daughter or sister daily. 
2. Keep good character. 
3. Visit aunt (maternal or paternal) or sister-in-law with sweets. 
4. Recite Hanuman Chalisa. 
5 
6 


AR WN 


— 


Do not drink wine. 

. Do not eat fish or meat. 

4. Mars in the 8" House: 

1. Do not keep company with black, one-eyed, childless or bald 
persons. 

2. Wear silver bangle with a copper nail. 

3. Do not inhabit south facing house. 

4. Feed sweet loaves to dogs. 


REMEDIES FOR MARS FROM ‘LALKITaB’ 567 


5. Serve widow. 
5. Mars in the 12" House: 
Distribute sweet food. 
Distribute prasad offered to Hanumanji. 
Recite Gayatri or Durga Paath. 
Do not keep rusted arms in the house. 
Make Halwa with milk. Eat and distribute. 


(H) FOR SCORPIO ASCENDANT: 


I. Mars in Ascendant: 

Keep red handkerchief. 

Do not speak lie or accept alms. 

Wear silver ring without joints. 

Wife should wear silver bangles coloured red. 
Wear Coral in copper or gold ring. 

2. Mars in the 4'" House: 


wRWN 


wk wYNo 


1. Wear silver bangle with a copper nail. 
2. Throw honey or vermilion in running water. 
3. Never take money or landed property from a childless person. 
4. Do not inhabit south facing house. 
5. Do not speak ill of anybody. 
3. Mars in the 7 House: 
!. Keep good character. 
2. Serve or rear brother's children. 
3. Make, and then break, a wall of raw bricks. 
4. Wear Coral in Copper or gold ring. 
5. Give sweets to daughter or sister daily. 
4, Mars in 8" House: 
1. Do not inhabit south facing house. 
2. Feed sweet loaves to dogs. 
3. Serve widows. 
4. Wear silver bangle with a copper nail. 
5. Do not speak ill of anybody. 
5. Mars in the 12" House: 
1. Wear Coral in Copper or Gold ring. 
Distribute sweet food. 
Recite Hanuman Chalisa. 
Wife should wear silver bangles coloured red. 
Take honey, the first thing in the morning. 


wwe 


568 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHAS 


() FOR SAGITTARIUS ASCENDANT: 


1. Mars in Ascendant: 
Never speak lie or give false testimony. 
Do not accept things for free or in alms. 
Do not keep elephant as pet or ivory material with you. 
Keep red handkerchief. 
Recite Hanuman Chalisa. 
2. Mars in the 4" House: 
I. Keep monkeys as pet and serve them. 
2. Do not inhabit south facing house. 
3. Do not keep company with black, one-eyed, childless or bald 
persons. 
Serve mother or equivalent lady. 
Do not grow Dhaak tree in the house. 
rs in the 7‘ House: 
Give sweets to daughter or sister daily. 
Visit aunt (maternal or paternal) or sister-in-law with sweets. 
Do not drink wine. 
Do not eat fish or meat. 
Make, and then break, a wall of raw bricks. 
Distribute prasad offered to Hanumanji. 
4. Mars in the 8" House: 
1. Recite Gayatri or Durga Paath. 
2. Do not inhabit south facing house. 
3. Serve widows. 
4. Wear silver ring without joints. 
5. Do not keep company with childless persons. 
5. Mars in the 12' House: 
Do not keep rusted arms in the house. 
Do not drink wine. 
Do not eat fish or meat. 
Take honey the first thing in the moming. 
Recite Hanuman Chalisa. 
Do not wear silver ring without joints. 


(J) FOR CAPRICORN ASCENDANT: 


1. Mars in Ascendant: 
1. Do not drink wine. 
2. Do not eat fish or meat. 


ARWNS 


pada sae he 


ANYONE 


3: 


4, 


5. 
6. 


REMEDIES FOR MARS FROM *LALKITAB’ 569 


Serve mother or equivalent lady. 

Do not keep elephant as a pet or ivory material with you in 
the house. 

Never accept things in alms. 

Wear Coral in copper or gold ring. 


2. Mars in the 4'" House: 


I. 


2. 


3. 
4. 
5. 


Do not inhabit south facing house. 
Serve mother or equivalent lady. 
Wear silver bangle with a copper nail. 
Do not speak ill of anybody. 

Serve or rear monkeys. 


3. Mars in the 7'" House: 


Do not drink wine. 

Do not eat fish or meat. 

Give sweets to daughter or sister daily. 
Rear brother's children. 

Make, and then break, a wall of raw bricks. 
Feed guests with sweet food at home. 


4, Mars in the 8" House: 


= 


Feed guests with sweet food at home. 

Do not inhabit south facing house. 

Do not keep company with black, one-eyed, childless or bald 
persons. 

Wear Coral in copper or gold ring. 

Serve widow. 


5. Mars in the 12" House: 


Do not keep rusted arms in the house. 

Do not drink wine. 

Do not eat fish or meat. 

Recite Hanuman Chalisa. 

Wear Coral in copper or gold ring. 

Make Halwa with milk. Eat and distribute. 


(K) FOR AQUARIUS ASCENDANT: 
1. Mars in Ascendant: 


1. 


2. 
3. 
4. 


Do not keep elephant as pet or ivory material with you in 
house. 

Do not drink wine. 

Do not eat fish or meat. 

Distribute prasad offered to Hanumanji. 


570 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHAS 


5. Never lie. 
6. Do not accept things for free or in alms. 
7. Keep red handkerchief. 
2. Mars in the 4‘ House: 
t. Do not inhabit south facing house. 
2. Serve mother or rear monkeys. 
3. Wear silver bangle with a gold nail. 
4. Do not speak ill of anybody. 
5. Throw honey or vermilion in running water. 
3. Mars in the 7" House: 
1. Recite Hanuman Chalisa. 
2. Feed guests at home with sweet food. 
3. Give sweets to daughter or sister daily. 
4. Serve or rear brother's children. 
5. Keep good character. 
4, Mars in the 8" House: 
1. Do not inhabit sonth facing honse. 
2. Do not keep company with black, one-eyed, or childless 
persons. 
3. Wear silver bangle with a gold nail. 
4. Do not speak ill of anybody. 
5. Serve and get the blessing of widows. 
5. Mars in the 12 House: 
I. Do not keep rusted arms in the house. 
2. Do not drink wine. 
3. Do not eat fish or meat. 
4. Distribute prasad offered to Hanumanji. 
5. Wife should wear silver bangles colonred red. 
6. Eat and distribute sweet food. 


(L) FOR PISCES ASCENDANT: 


1. Mars in Ascendant: 

1. Do not drink wine. 

2. Do not eat fish or meat. 

3. Keep red handkerchief with you. 

4. Do not accept things for free or in alms. 

5. Employ servants at office and home. 

6. Do not speak lie or give false testimony. 
2. Mars in the 4'" House: 

1. Do not inhabit south facing house. 


REMEDIES FOR MARS FROM '‘LALKITAB' 571 


ad 


Do not keep company with black, one-eyed, or childless 
persons. 
3. Do not speak ill of anybody. 
4. Serve mother or equivalent lady. 
5. Serve or rear monkeys. 
3. Mars in the 7" House: 
Do not drink wine. 
Do not eat fish or meat. 
Rear brother's children. 
Wear Coral in copper or gold ring. 
Wife should wear silver bangles coloured red. 
Make, and then break, a wall of raw bricks several times. 
4. Mars in the 8" House: 
|. Do not inhibit south facing house. 
2. Do not keep company with black, one-eyed, or childless 
persons. 
3. Wear Coral in copper or gold ring. 
4. Serve and get the blessings of widows. 
5. Feed dogs with sweet loaves. 
5. Mars in the 12'" House: 
1. Wear Coral in copper or gold ring. 
2. Make Halwa with milk. Eat and distribute. 
3. Take honey the first thing in the morning. 
4. Do not keep rusted arms in the house. 
5. Offer vermilion cloth to Hanumanji. 
These preventive measures are very effective and give very quick results. 
It is difficult to explain why the author has suggested so many measures 
for different positions of planets. The logic is only best known to the 
author of Lal Kitab. 

However, we can only assure that these remedies are wonderful, 
quick and very effective. They are cheap as well. To search the most 
appropriate remedy is an art and depends on the knowledge of Lal Kitab. 
We have tried to explain only the useful measures for different positions 
of Mars for different ascendants so the accurate remedies can easily be 
picked up and undertaken. 


DAARWN— 


2 6% 
> ee Oo oe 9 


CONCLUSION 


reality it is a delicate and sometimes a tongh task to find the 

partner so ordained to enter into a betrothal. Selection of career 
and marriage of their children are two prime concerns of parents. It only 
adds to anxiety of the parents in case of girls particularly when the things 
start delaying. Anxiety is at the peak when the child is Mangli. lt is 
baffling to sometimes come across a beautiful girl, who would normally 
be expected to have a bevy of suitors after her, remaining unmarried even 
much beyond a reasonable age. It is equally perplexing to sometime see 
a person, not endowed with the best of nature's brain or beanty, having 
early marriage with a spouse who is diametrically opposite on either of 
these scores. It is what else but destiny! Such deviations from the ‘usual’ 
are explained by astrology. Astrology can be of great help to hapless 
parents as it can be a tool to identify the most suitable match for their 
wards. This divine combination of science and arts, which the astrology 
is, can foretell the time of marriage and whether the marriage is only 
delayed or else denied, and can thus prevent the parents, as also the 
candidate, from undergoing through undue anxiety. However the prob- 
lem is multiplied when the native is afflicted with Mangli dosha in his 
or her birth chart. 

Mars is a planet of violence, crime, miseries, death of the sponse, 
mishaps, bloodshed, anger and criticism etc. Placement of Mars in 
certain houses causes Kuja dosha or Mangli dosha, which, in fact, 
generates fear and sorrow in the mind of a person. Surprisingly, many 
works on this subject are none but contain dramatic utterances, portray- 
ing a horrid picture of Mangli dosha. \nadequate and incomplete 
knowledge of Mangli Dosha has done irreparable loss to our society. 

Placement of Mars in either First, Second, Forth, Seventh, Eighth 
or Twelfth house gives rise to Kuja Dosa and if one is Mangli, then it 
is taken to mean marital tragedies like loss of life partner, unhappy 
matriage, divorce, absence of conjugal bliss, violence, unnatural death, 


Ta the adage goes ‘marriages are made in heaven’ but in 


CONCLUSION 573 


denial of children or loss of prosperity etc. But the effects of Mars in 
all these houses will absolutely be different and may create disaster in 
married life in different ways. The damage caused by Mars in each of 
these sensitive houses will be quite different from others. The exact effect 
of Mars in these sensitive houses should be properly understood and 
examined for different kind of Mangli male and female natives. The 
conjunction, association, aspect or mutual exchange of Mars with other 
planets may modify these -results. 

Mars in /agna causes various injuries, wounds, boils, cuts, scars, 
surgery, hypertension etc. The native would have unhappy married life 
because of impulsive, short tempered, stubborn, arrogant, crue] and 
hardhearted nature. 

The 2"? house or the ‘Dhan Bhava’ is related to family, speech, face, 
throat, eyes and education and thus the adverse placement of Mars in 
the 2" house would make an impact on this dimension of marital life. 
The native may have no enjoyment of family life, even if he has one. 
Relations with wife would be strained and the couple may not have 
healthy children, as the Mars in second house aspects the fifth house 
also. 

The fourth house or the “Sukh Sthan’’ is directly concerned with 
materialistic pleasures, which are no less essential for the success of 
marital life in this era. Lack of materialistic pleasure may also cause 
serious strains in the conjugal life. 

The malefic effect of Mars over the 7 house i. the house of life 
partner will spoil the matters of this house such as causing death of the 
husband or wife, miserable married life, uncontrollable anger, violence 
with wife or husband, unfaithfulness, etc. This is the common influence 
of Mars over the 7" house, in a male or a female birth chart alike. The 
8" house has got vital importance in a female nativity. The 8'" house 
governs conjugal bliss, life span of husband, length and status of married 
life etc., in the horoscope of women. Generally presence of Mars in the 
8" house gives rise to widowhood to women. If the horoscope of the 
husband of such a female shows strong indications of longevity, he will 
then suffer from mental stress or physical disability due to accident or 
sickness. The couple may not prosper or may remain child less. Thus 
the effect of Mars over the 7" or the 8" house will be adverse for the 
marriage of a girl. In the chart of men, the 7” house rules wife and 
conjugal life. The 8'° house is not connected with the happiness of 
matriage or the life span of the wife. But the 8" house does indicate 
longevity and the cause of death etc. Influence of Mars over the 8" house 


574 AN INSIGHT INIO KUJA DOSHAS 


in the chart of a man will bring problems connected with health, 
accidents and unnatural, untimely or violent death. Therefore, one must 
try to understand the difference of influence of Mars over the 8" house 
in a male or a female chart. In the female horoscope, such a Mars will 
be harmful for husband whereas in a male chart, it will be adverse for 
him only and not for wife. But indirectly, it will be bad for wife also 
because any kind of adversity to husband will hurt and affect the wife. 

The Mangli dosha of the 12" house, too, is in no way ignorable and 
requires careful analysis by an astrologer. The adverse placement of Mars 
in this house can bring several bad results for an individual, especially 
when horoscopes remain unmatched. 

Of all the six places 7" or the 8" house Mars causes strongest Kuja 
dosha, particularly in a female native. In a woman's chart, placement 
of Mars in the 5" house also results into strong Kuja dosha, as it aspects 
the 8" house, the house of Saubhagya, by its fourth aspect. This is our 
research as we have found marital unhappiness in large number of such 
cases, which could only be justified by Mars' ill aspect. Readers may 
also verify this in the birth charts of the natives they come in contact 
with, and take this research further. 

Jupiter is a benevolent planet. As a general principle the aspect or 
the association of Jupiter with any Bhava is said to improve the prospects 
of that bhava. The general acceptance, in case of Kuja dosha also is, 
that the aspect or association of Jupiter with Mars mitigates or cancels 
the evils of Kuja dosha. However the chapter on 'Re-understanding 
Jupiter's role in Kuja dosha’ would reveal that our experience with the 
beneficence of Jupiter, in case of Kuja dosha, has been otherwise. We 
have found, as illustrated in examples that under the ‘shelter’ of Jupiter 
Mars becomes more ‘audacious’ or more courageous to inflict harm. 
Hence the role of Jupiter should be taken in this light and Mangli dosha 
should not be considered nullified. 


There are many situations when Mangli dosha is ineffective or 
harmless, which have been discussed in detail. An astrologer must bear 
in mind all such situations while matching the horoscopes. Kuja Dosha 
also gets balanced by Shani Dosha in the chart of the spouse. This means 
that if Mars joins 15, 2"%, 4, 7%, gth or 12' house in one horoscope 
and Saturn occupies either of these houses in the other birth chart, Mangli 
dosha gets cancelled. 

Mars happens to be a yogakaaraka for Cancer or Leo ascendants 
and therefore, if Mars is placed in sensitive houses giving rise to Kuja 
dosha, much harm may not be expected. Mars gives worst results, if 


CONCLUSION 575 


placed in Gemini or Virgo, in any of the sensitive houses except the 2" 
house. It is wrongly understood by many astrologers that Kuja dosha 
gets nullified if malefics occnpy upchay (36,11) houses. It is also 
misinterpreted that the conjunction of Mars with Moon, Jupiter or Rahu 
will nullify the Mangli dosha. 

As per various works on the subject, Mangli dosha is reckoned from 
the ascendant, as well as from Moon and Venus. However it is our strong 
view that Mangli dosha should be considered only from the lagna and 
not from the positions of Moon or Venus, as the practice is. It may be 
considered from Moon only if Moon falls in the sign or constellation 
of Mars or it falls in any of the asterism of Moolas. Moreover the position 
of Mars should be considered from Bhava chart and not only from the 
Rashi chart. If in a birth chart Mars has moved from the 9" house in 
the Rashi chart to the 8" house in the Bhava chart, the native should 
be considered strong Mangli, more so in case of wornen. 

There are few other planets too, who cause similar affliction to 
marital happiness and are to be taken into consideration while matching 
the horoscopes. In fact 75% malefic effect of Mars gets balanced by 
Satum, if both are placed in the same house in the charts of the bride 
and the bridegroom. If Mars is debilitated in the 8" house, 75% adversity 
will be nullified if Satum is placed in the 8" house in the sign of its 
debilitation. Similarly Rahu and Ketu, if placed in the sensitive houses, 
nullify 75% adversity caused by Mars. This has been given in the form 
of a table so that Kuja Dosha may be measured in the horoscope of boy 
and girl before marriage. Intensity of Kuja Dosha cannot be exactly equal 
in both the charts and if 25% variation is there, marriage can be 
recommended. However, in our experience, if the variation is up to 50%, 
conjugal bliss will remain undisturbed. The difference of Kuja Dosa, if 
exceeds 50%, marriage should not be recommended or else marital 
problerns will destroy the marriage, in spite of both having Mangli dosha 
in their birth charts. So, it is essential to do proper measurement of Kuja 
dosha or Mangli dosha in the horoscope of the prospective bride and 
the bridegroom. 


Mangli dosha can cause many marital maladies, which can broadly 
be grouped into four categories: 
1, Delay or denial of marriage. 
2. Absence of conjugal bliss. 
3. Separation or divorce. 
4. Loss of the life partner or serious sickness. 
However, the proper matching of the birth charts of the bride and the 


576 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHAS 


groom at the time of marriage may curtail many of the adversities and 
make the conjugal life full of happiness. But the Kuja dosha is most 
misunderstood, and therefore the matching also does not produce the 
desired results and the blame is shifted to astrology. The matching of 
the birth charts of bride and the bridegroom does not limit itself to only 
the matching of Kuja dosha. This intricate aspect of matching of the 
horoscopes has been dealt very exhaustively and exclusively in our 
forthcoming title in Hindi ‘Aerqes afterrar’. 

Mangli females should be married to Mangli males and proper 
balancing of Kuja or Mangli dosha must be done. If match is unbalanced 
in respect of Mangli dosha or a Mangli native is married to anon-Mungli, 
certain problems creep up after their marriage depending on the planetary 
placements in their horoscopes. The health of native's spouse will suffer 
seriously or the native will loose his or her spouse because of death due 
to any fatal event. Marital life of the native will be miserable, children 
may be denied and the prosperity of the couple remains checked. 

It is matter of plight that those, who do not understand the truth and 
fact behind Mangli dosha, give all discredit to Mars in any horoscope, 
if anything adverse in relation to marital disharmony happens. It is not 
always Mars, which spoils marriage, and causes widowhood, separation, 
miseries, violence or torture. Many times the birth, of a female or male, 
in Jyeshtha nakshatra also causes untimely death of husband or wife, 
which may bring series of unbearable miseries in conjugal life of the 
native. Therefore, this all has to be thoroughly examined before reaching 
any conclusion, more so because on that depends the selection of 
appropriate remedies. 


Remedial astrology can even cure the delay in marriage, marital 
discords and other problems of conjugal life by prescribing mantras, vrat 
and other measures. An experienced astrologer after factoring in Rashi, 
nakshatra and other features of a horoscope can advise suitable measures 
for specific problem. A word of caution though! It is sometimes seen 
that people having a problem tend to pick up mantra or remedy from 
someone they know, who has had a history of similar or near similar 
problem, on the premise that the mantras or remedy having been 
successful in one instance will be so in their case as well. It is certainly 
not so and astrology eams a bad name when mantras fail to work or 
the remedy fails to deliver. A mantra to be used by a person is to be 
prescribed by an astrologer after a thorough analysis of individual chart. 


Our sages have suggested various measures to prevent the maladies 
to happen in the married life, when the conjugal bliss is threatened due 


CONCLUSION 577 


to adverse Kuja dosha. Various Mantras, stotras and other remedies have 
been given in detail in this book. 

Evils of Mars can be ruled out by reciting various Mantras and 
stotra. Mangli female must lit a Panchmukhi lamp and must worship 
planet Mars and her deity, along with their panchopcharand shodshopchar 
poojan. After which, she must recite the suggested Mantras or stotras. 

However, if a female is strong Mangli and the placement of Mars 
is indicating widowhood, in that case japa of mahamrityunjaya mantra 
for 125 lakh times must be got done by any experienced, learned and 
able acharya, with dashansha hawan, tarpan and maarjan.In such cases, 
many other measures are also of great use, which are given in detail. 

If wife is stcong Mangli and the husband is not, husband should wear 
an Indian coral of 14 rattis or more of weight, in gold ring in ring finger 
of right hand on Tuesday moming after purification, so that he may resist 
the evils reflected in the horoscope of wife for her husband. If husband 
is Mangli the wife may also follow the same. 'Surya namaskar’ will also 
be of immense use in such cases, if undertaken, in addition to other 
preventive measures. Several rare and unavailable mantras and stotras 
have also been given in the chapter on 'Preventive measures for Kuja 
dosha', for the benefit of the readers, in all the details. 

Donation is one of the most useful effective and powerful remedies 
of Mangli dosha. A Mangli gitl should donate copper, gold, money, 
grams, red sandal, red flower, red lintels (Mansoor Ki Daal), red Cloth, 
Gur (jaggery), Saffron, Kasturi, coral, red coloured bull, and wheat on 
Tuesdays. It is not at all essential to donate these things on each and 
every Tuesday. All these articles or few of these or even one should be 
donated on any Tuesday, at frequent intervals, but the donation should 
be made commensurate with the capacity, capability and financial status 
of the native. Heavier the donation, better results will be experienced. 
Donation should be made after proper Sankalp. 


Mangli girls are also advised to observe Vrat on Tuesdays in an 
appropriate manner, before their marriage. The same Vrar on Tuesdays 
may be observed even after marriage, for at least five years. When 
Mangal Vrat is observed in the month of ‘Shraavana’ it is called Mangala 
Gauri vrat, which is very popular in Maharashtra. Mangala Gauri Vrat 
certainly prevents widowhood due to any reason, even in old age. Vat 
Savitri Vrat, which is observed on 'no moon day' (Amavasya) of the 
‘Jyestha mass", is also fruitful in bestowing Akhand Saubhagya to any 
female. Any vrat must be observed with complete dedication, full faith, 
purity and chastity. 


578 AN INSIGHT INTO KUJA DOSHAS 


Certain fruitful remedies, for those who are snffering from Mangli 
dosha, have also been given in 'LAL KITAB'. The native who is facing 
marital problems, due to mangli dosha in his or her horoscope, must 
immerse or throw gently, with absolute faith and dedication, 125 kg of 
batasha or revadi, in running water while facing south. Bread of wheat 
or gram prepared by mixing sugar or gur in it, may be fed to a dog of 
red or brown shade, on Tuesdays. A large number of such remedies are 
given for different placements of Mars in the birth chart, according to 
‘Lal Kitab’. 

These remedial measures, which have been given in detail, have 
been tested on over thousands of natives during past three decades and 
have been found to give astonishing results in eliminating all kinds of 
Mangli dosha. As iterated many times, any measure to be followed 
requires absolute faith to get the maximum benefits. We hope and pray 
that with these remedies natives, afflicted with Kuja dosha, will be able 
to ward off evil results and live a happy, peaceful and prosperous life. 

With this we submit before our esteemed and astute readers, the 
present work, which is the fruit of the hard work of extensive and 
sustained research. If it succeeds in clearing the misgivings about Kuja 
dosha and the natives are benefited, it will be our reward. We hope that 
this research will be carried further by erudite scholars of astrology. 


