Analysing Horoscope 
Through Modern 


Techniques 
(Third Revised & Enlarged Edition) 


M.S. Mehta 
IFS (Rtd.) 


Guide & Editor 
K.N. Rao 


About The Book 


It has been my experience as teacher of Astrology in Bhartiya 
Vidya Bhawan that students find it difficult to comprehend various 
rules of astrology and fail miserably in giving correct predictions. 
As aresult they get frustrated and discouraged. 

Moreover, most of the books on astrology available in the 
market, and some of these are good books, have not been able to 
keep pace with fast changes taking place in the world. For example 
dozens of new professions and branches of science have opened 
up, but there is hardly any reference about this in major books. In 
Bhartiya Vidya Bhawan under guidance of KN Rao lot of serious 
researches are going on in various topics of astrology. This book 
has taken this into considerations and has published the latest tech- 
niques and results of these researches. 

This book has specially been written taking into considerations 
needs of students to comprehend astrology and be able to give 
correct predictions in shortest possible time. I have made a step by 
step approach to explain intricacies of astrology. I am sure students 
will find this book rewarding. 

There are new articles hitherto unpublished on mundane as- 
trology. The book contains rules for foreign travel, owning houses 
and assessment of intelligence and wealth, career counseling and 
pitfalls in marriages etc. and above all how to assess the personal- 
ity and character. The book has been result of years of hard work 
and research. I was much encouraged to write this book after the 
success of my two earlier books on astrology, "Planets and Travel 
Abroad" and "Ashtak Varga - its concept and Application" which 
have gone into second edition. 

Any comments and remarks for improvement of the book will 
be gratefully accepted. 


M.S. Mehta 


Preface to the Third Edition 


It is very heartening to know that the first two editions of 
the book were well received and sold out in record time. Numerous 
letters of appreciation received by the author have vindicated 
K.N. Rao's comments in the foreword of the first edition that this is 
easily the best book in the market on the subject. 


This has encouraged me to revise the new edition and add 
new chapters on Yogni Dasha and Mundane astrology. The chapter 
on Vimshotari Dasha has been thoroughly revised and rewritten in 
the light of new researches of K.N. Rao. The chapter on Yogas 
has also been thoroughly revised and chapter on marriage has been 
revised in the light of new researches. 


I am sure that the students of astrology will find this book a 
great asset which will improve their predictive ability to a very great 
extent. 


M.S. Mehta 


Foreword 


The most notable feature throughout of this book by 
Shri M.S. Mehta is the interweaving of yogas, the examination of 
their strength and the dasha as a useful and effective predictive 
tool for astrologers. 


Eighty or more years ago, when books on the predictive 
techniques of Hindu astrology were written such interweaving was 
always missing. Even in the best of well-structured books which 
have come out in the recent decades, there is lot of vagueness and 
unsynthesised approach inspite of impressive compilation. 


A book that should come out now with so many people knowing 
astrology has to be an advanced one, combining three features: 
yogas, dashas and transits of planet to show why what has happened 
or is happening had to happen. It is not an easy task even if the 
scheme of the book is to cover all the twelve houses of a horoscope 
and show it. But the success of Shri Mehta is very commendable 
and comes out as its most striking feature. 


All this became possible because for years now Shri Mehta 
has been studying, writing and teaching scores of students as a 
result of which his insightful understanding stands out in this book. 


This is easily the best book on the predictive techniques of a 
horoscope with a balanced approach to the judgement of each house. 
Yet, one must remember, learning through books has its own 
advantages and limitations. All such learning must be supplemented 
through personal experience to appreciate and depth of the superb 
techniques of Hindu astrology. 


K.N. Rao 
20 March 2002 


Acknowledgment 


This book would not have been possible but for the guidance 
and encouragement of Shri K.N. Rao who is not only a great teacher 
but is also a great philosopher and saint. He has been the guiding 
light of hundreds of students whom he initiated into astrology and 
showed them the light of Jyoti, the real meaning of Jyotish. This 
light has been burnt will ever be the guiding star of life of hundreds. 
With his own humble way of living, dedicated teaching and preaching 
of astrology, Rao has not only become a legend but has set an 
example in the great traditions of our gurus and Mahatmas which is 
the real contribution of India to the world. 


Mr. Rao who is author of twenty-nine books of astrology is 
the editor and founder of Journal of Astrology, a prestigious magazine 
devoted to research and has written hundreds of articles which 
have been published all over the world. He has rediscovered the 
ancient truths hidden in our classics and many of his rules like that 
of double transit of transit of Saturn and Jupiter have become law 
and are quoted by the savants of Astrology. His predictions about 
the chaos and devastation taking all around us in the present day 
world which is the result of "entry of Rahu/Saturn in Rohini,” have 
become classical examples of the truth and veracity of Astrology. 
The communal riots in Gujarat have come no surprise to the persons 
who have read his earlier predictions given years in advance. The 
failure of Monsoon this year inspite of the earlier claims of India 
Meteorological department that rains would be normal in 2002, are 
testimony to the truths of great science of astrology and the 
predictions about which was given by Rao in classes and in articles 
much in advance. He is the founder of School of Astrology in 
Bhartiya Vidya Bhawan which to-day has over a thousand students 
has become the largest school of Astrology in the world. I have 
made full use ofhis researches and have quoted liberally from his 
books and articles in my book to make astrology instructive and 
inspiring. 


Above all his most important contribution is kindling of the 
light, the showing of Path on which to tread to achieve happiness 
and eternal bliss. That has been his major contribution for which 
we are indebted to him and in all my humility I dedicate this book to 
him, if some of the students and I am sure there would be many, 
are benefited by this book and find the inner meaning of Astrology, 
I would be amply rewarded. 


I am also thankful to Narinder Sagar and his son Saurab who 
have given me all the cooperation in publishing this book. 


M.S. Mehta 


Contents 


Subject 

Foreword : by KN Rao and acknowledgement. 
Introduction: 

Basic rules for interpretation of horoscope. 
Important factors and considerations 

for interpretation of various charts. 

Chapter I 

First house, its signification and subjects dealt with 
- importance of lagna lord, lord of first house in 
different houses and its signification - planets in Ist 
house and their signification - combinations for 


handsome personality. Special Yogas for the First house. 


Chapter II 

Second house its signification - how to study second 
house- Lord of second house in various houses and 
its signification, Planets in Second house and their 
signification - Yogas for Wealth and Poverty- 


Jaimini Astrology and Wealth - Horoscopes of rich persons- 


Indu Lagna its interpretation - Sarvashtakvarga and 
Prosperity. 

Chapter III 

Third house and its signification, Lord of three in 
various houses and its signification, Planets in 

third houses and their signification, Yogas for 

birth and denial of brothers - Early death of brothers- 
Relation with brothers - Number of brothers and 
their prosperity. 

Chapter IV 

Fourth house its signification and subjects dealt 
with-Importance of 4th lord - lord of fourth house 
in different houses and its signification, planets in 

4th house and their signification - Combinations for 
acquiring Houses - Yogas that deny houses - Mother's, 
early death and long life - relation with mother. 


18 


31 


50 


62 


Chapter V 78 
Fifth house its significations and subjects dealt 

with. Importance of 5th lord. Lord of 5th house in 

different houses and its signification. Planets in 

5th house and their signification - Combinations for 

birth of Children - Combinations for sharp intellect. 

Conception of Beeja Sphuta and Kshetra Sphuta, 

Combinations that delay and deny Children - Tuning 

birth of children - Number of children and their sex - 

Birth of worthy children. 

Chapter VI 103 
Sixth house its significations and subjects dealt 

with- Importance of lagna lord - lord of 6th house in 

different houses and its signification. Planets in 6th 

house and their signification - Dasha of lord of six 

and its results. 

Chapter VII 113 
Seventh house its significations and subjects dealt 

with - Importance of 7th lord - lord of seventh house 

in different houses and its signification. Planets in 

7th house and their signification - Signification of 

Venus in marriage - Personality of husband/wife - 

Timing marriage - Combinations for delay and 

denial of marriage - Compatibility - Marital 

discord or happiness in marriage - Combinations 

for remarriage - Kuja or Mangli Dosha - Matching of 

Horoscope for Marriage 

Chapter VII 154 
Eighth house its significations and subjects dealt 

with - Importance of eighth lord - lord of 8th house 

in different houses and its signification. Planets in 8th 

house and their signification. 

Chapter IX 162 
Ninth house its significations and subjects dealt 

with-Importance of 9th lord - lord of 9th house in 

different houses and its signification. Planets in 9th 

house and their signification - Combination for rich 

father and relations with father - Dasha of the ninth 

lord its, results. 


Chapter X 

Tenth house its significations, Lord of tenth in various 
houses, Planets in 10th house, role of signs in 10th 
house, how to study Profession and transfers. Dasha 
of 10th lord. Combination of Planets and profession- 
Education and modern professions - How to study 
profession basic rules of Varaharnihira - Two planet 
Combination - Jaimini astrology and profession - 
Fame giving Combinations, meritorious deeds - 
Timing promotion and confirmation in service. 
Obstacles to service, combination for doctors, 
engineers, pilots, air-hostesses and businessmen. 
Writers, musicians, actors and Men with a Mission- 
Fame giving combinations. 


Chapter XI 
Eleventh house or House of gains - signification- 


Lord of 11 in different Houses- Planets in the 11thhouse. 


Chapter XII 
Twelfth house - House of expenditure or loss as 
well as spiritualism, signification, result of various 
planets in 12th house. Yogas for asceticism - Horoscope 
of Mahatmas - Combination for travel abroad. 
Chapter XIII 
Rahu and Ketu - their signification. 
Chapter XIV 
Transit of Planets and their result - Sade Sari 
and its signification. 
Chapter XV 
Dashas and its scheme - Auspicious and inauspicious 
dashas - Dasha Chidra and adverse dashas - How 
to interpret dashes and antar dashas - Result of dashas 
of Planets and Lord of Houses 
Chapter XVI 
Yogini Dasha 
Chapter XVII 
Nakshatras and their signification in Astrology. 
Birth in auspicious and inauspicious nakshatras- 
their importance in Muhurata. 


171 


263 


270 


282 


292 


303 


366 


385 


Chapter XVIII 

Divisional Charts or Vargas and their signification- 
importance of Navamsa, Chaturthamsa, Saptamsa, 
Dasamsa etc and their signification. 

Chapter XIX 

Yogas in Astrology - Rajyogas their signification- 
Panch Mahapurush and other important Yogas - 
Nabhas Yogas and their importance - Combination of 
Planets and their significance. 


Part B 
Mundane Astrology 
Chapter I - Definition of Mundane Astrology - 
Planets and their signification. 
Chapter II - Twelve Houses of the Horoscope 
and their signification. 
Chapter TI - Ruling signs of the countries of 
the world including India. 


Chapter IV - Kurma chakra and its signification. 


Chapter V - Important charts for predicting 
world events and their signification. Planetary 
Cabinet - Role of Eclipses - Comets and their 
signification - Planetary position and earthquakes. 
Chapter VI 

Horoscopes of Independent India 15th August 1947 
and Republic Day 26 January 1950 - Horoscope 
of Soli - Lunar Chaitra Shukla Pratipada. New 
Year 2002 etc. 

Chapter VII 

Transit of Venus in Gemini and Indian Affairs. 
Chapter VIII 

Entry of Rahu in Rohini nakshatra and Communal 
Riots in India. 

Chapter IX 

Planetary Cabinet and Raja of the year 


404 


431 


480 


485 


491 


494 
496 


499 


503 


507 


511 


Chapter X 

Rasi Sanghatta and nakshatra Sanghatta Chakras. 
Chapter IX 

Conjunction - Opposition of Planets 

Chapter XII 

Predicting Events on Yearly Basis - India 2002 
Chapter XTII 

Earthquakes - their causes and Astrological explanation 
Chapter XIV 

Astro Meteorology and forecast of rains in India. 
Ardra Parvesh Chakra - Combinations for 

scanty rainfall. 


512 


517 


524 


535 


546 


Introduction 


How to Read a Horoscope ? 
(important Factors) 


To be able to give predictions accurately one has to be familiar 
with the rules and also have faith in astrology, one’s Guru and God. 
The mere surrender to Divine and belief in religion and spiritual 
values will increase the predictive ability. 

Judgement of a horoscope needs great skill. Years of teaching 
experience has shown us that beginners get frustrated quickly as 
the predictions do not follow mathematical rules as a result even 
after studying astrology for years they are still confused as to the 
significance of first lord in the third house or role of Sun in the fifth 
house etc. The predictions have all the tendency to go wrong. The 
students get discouraged quickly and they start losing interest in 
this divine and spiritual subject. It is not only the students who get 
frustrated but the astrology also gets discredited in the process. 

Keeping in view these difficulties we have devised a course 
of lessons aimed at making a person conversant with the art of 
reading horoscope in an easy and concise way in the shortest 
possible time. 

Following important steps should be taken before starting 
delineating the horoscope. 

Step 1. To study the horoscope you must have following three 
charts: 

a. Birth Chart or Rasi Chart: This is also known as main 
horoscope or Janam Kundali. 

b. Chart treating Moon as the Lagna: This is important, as 
according to Maharishi Parasara horoscope should be studied 
not only from the ascendant but also from Moon treating it as 
Lagna. This has been made clear in Shloka 11 chapter 14 
of Brihat Parasara Hora Shastra. For example if we have 
to judge wealth, we should study second house from the birth 
chart as also second from Moon. If the result 
is positive from both Lagna and Moon; there is going to be 


Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


plenty of wealth. If the second house from Lagna shows 
wealth but second from Moon does not give a good picture 
then wealth will be moderate and so on. In still getting 
greater accuracy we should treat Sun as Lagna also. 
Navamsa and Relevant Varga Charts: Navamsa is an 
important divisional chart. No prediction should be made 
without consulting this. Its utility and other related matters 
have been discussed in a separate lesson on Vargas or 
divisional charts. 

General Rule: Planet favourable in Rasi but weak in 
Navamsa, either debilitated or in enemy house or in 
evil houses minimize good effects of Rasi. If planets 
improve in Vargas they give good results in Rasi chart. 
If planet is strong both in Rasi and Navamsa it is fully- 
capable of giving excellent results. 


d. Chart of the Dasha Scheme: It is no use giving prediction 


Step 2. 


unless you have the Dasha scheme before you. A 
horoscope may have all the Raj Yogas but if the proper 
Dasha does not come good Yogas rarely give fruit 
Another important principle is to treat Dasha lord as Lagna 
and evaluate other houses accordingly. For example second 
house from the Dasha lord will represent wealth, third 
brothers, fourth property and so on. This is important 
principle as given in Phala Deepika. 

General Assessment of the Horoscope - Signs Rising: 
You must feel the horoscope and the horoscope should be 
ready to tell its own story. See how many planets are exalted 
or aspecting their own houses. These houses are 
strengthened and give the full results of their signification. 
In this you should concentrate on the sign rising and the sign 
in which Moon is located. All Rasis have their own 
characteristics and have their story to tell. For example Virgo 
is an intellectual sign but not so strong to resist diseases. A 
person with Virgo rising will lie down in the bed on even 
slight indications of bad cold, whereas a person with Aries 
sign rising will be still active and moving around even when 
he is running temperature of 100 degrees. Maladies of 


Step-3. 


Introduction 3 


ordinary nature do not bother him. He has tremendous 
stamina to resist these. A separate chapter has been 
devoted to signs rising and their results. This can be seen 
in the separate volume of this book. "Astrology - Basic- 
Facts". These should be memorized. 

Ascertain the placement of the planets, and in which 
types of Rasis they are placed If majority of planets are 
in movable or char Rasis, the person is fond of travelling, 
his ideas change and in course of time he travels a lot. If 
majority of planets are in fixed or Sthir Rasis person is of 
conservative ideas and is of fixed habits. He normally stays 
at one place and is good at making factories and works at 
a regular and constant place. Majority of planets in dual or 
Dwishbhava Rasis give result in between. The person 
are sometimes here and sometimes there. They do not 
have fixed ideas which are liable to change. Again check 
placement of planets in different type of Rasis. If majority 
of planets are in fiery Rasis the person has great initiative, 
his ideas arc high and he aims to achieve great things in 
life. Majority of planets in earthy sign make one practical 
and industrious, in airy signs intelligent and fond of reading 
and in watery signs emotional, receptive, intelligent and of 
unstable mind. 

Planets in Kendras or Trikonas: 


Check the position of planets. The best place for benefits 
is Kendras and Trikonas. Here the planets become very 
strong. And strong benefits are necessary to give you 
maximum comforts in life. Ifthe planets are in Kendras 
and are in their own signs they give rise to Mahapurush 
Yogas of prosperity. 

The malefics in Kendras unless they are exalted or in their 
own houses become strong to give trouble in life. For 
example malefics in the fourth house will destroy peace of 
mind, are not good for accumulating property as also are 
bad for mother. Similarly malefics in the 7th house will 
destroy married life. 

The best place for malefics are 3, 6 and 11 houses (not 


4 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


their lordship, which makes them evil). They are extremely 
good here. 

d. A horoscope in which benefics are in Kendras and malefics 
are in 3, 6 and 11 is considered to be a strong horoscope 
and generally person rises very high in life. 

Step 4. Raj Yogas Present in the horoscope. 

After this, have a look at the placement of planets and the type of 
Yogas these are forming. The more Raj Yogas in the horoscope, 
the greater the prosperity and rise in life. Because of the importance 
of the subject a separate chapter has been devoted to Yogas. It has 
been our observation that the combination of Kendra and Trikona 
lords form the most powerful Raj Yoga. Without these Yogas it is 
not possible to achieve high status in life. 

Step 5. Strong and Weak Planets 

Astrology is nothing else but deciphering the results of strong and 
weak planets. A strong Sun gives a high status in life, makes one a 
leader, gives fame, wealth and prosperity, whereas a weak Sun 
give all type of problems including loss of reputation and wealth, 
struggle and strife. A strong Mars makes you fearless, takes you to 
the top of profession, and gives land and property, whereas weak 
Mars gives accidents, quarrels, various diseases, violent murders 
and massacres. 

Signification of each and every planet should be clearly 
understood and committed to memory. We have dealt with this 
subject exhaustively in a separate chapter. 

Broadly speaking the signification of each planet is given 
below, but before that we must know when is the planet strong and 
when it is weak. Because these will give diametrically opposite 
results. 

The, exact strength of a planet can be known through working 
of Shad-Balas and use of Ashtak Vargas. However, where it is not 
available or where the time is short the following thumb rules should 
be applied for strong and weak planets respectively. 

Strong Planet 
A Planet is Strong if it is; 

a. exalted 

b. is in its Mooltrikona sign/own house, in friend's Rasi. 

c. is conjunct with or aspected by benefics. 


Introduction 5 


is in Kendra/Trikona or is in ‘Shubh Kartari Yoga’. 
when it is in benefic Vargas. (This has been dealt with in 
details in chapter on Vargas.) 
it is not debilitated, combust, or in the first or last 5 degrees 
of a Rasi. 
it is not in Mrityu Bhaga. 
According to Parasara the last 6° ofan odd Rasi or 
first 6° ofan even Rasi deteriorates the strength ofa 
planet to do good. Here planets are known to be in Mrityu 
Bhaga. 
in Ashtak Varga it is associated with more than 4 benefic 
points. 
it is not in 6th, 8th or 12th house. 
Important: Good place for benefics is Kendra and Trikonas 
and for malefics are 3rd, 6th and 11th houses. 


Weak Planets 
A planet becomes weak if it is 


a. 
b. 


w mo So 


debilitated 

combust 

first or last 6 degrees of a Rasi. 

itis in 'Mrityu Bhaga' 

it is in enemy's Rasi. 

itis in 6, 8 or 12. 

they are weak in Vargas ie. they are in enemy sign or 
Vargas of debilitation. 

in Ashtak Varga it is associated with less than 3 benefic 
points. 

it is with malefics or aspected by malefics, or is in 
‘Papkartari Yoga’. 


Signification of Planets 


Sun 


A Strong Sun in the horoscope gives; 


a. 
b. 


Strong will and character 

Father enjoying good health and status in life - since Sun is 
Karka for father. 

Courage, good health, endurance, vitality, confidence. 
Straight forward and has qualities of leadership. 


Bi 


Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


Sun is significator for soul. It helps to seek enlightenment 
and ultimate truth. 

Fame, high rank and good relations with government and 
bosses. Good for politicians, high ranking government 
officers, diplomats, surgeons, doctors and scientists. 

A strong but afflicted with malefic, Sun makes one tyrant, 
arrogant, short of temper and impatient 


Sun - Weak 


a. 


Moon 
Moon 
a. 


In deep debilitation, 10 degrees Libra, makes one sick, poor, 
unhealthy and of short life. According to Parasara it cancels 
all Raj Yogas. 

Lack of confidence, cowardly, with weak eyesight. If Sun 
is weak, health is weak. Keeps aloof from company, weak 
Sun in 12" house makes one abandoned person. 

Trouble to father, especially when hemmed in malefics or 
when malefics are in seventh from Sun. 

Loss of money afflicted with Mars having ownership of 6. 
8 and 12 houses will give major accident. Afflicted with 
Saturn loss, misery misunderstanding with father and 
superiors, ill fame, set back in profession, false pride, flattery, 
egotist, overbearing, vainglorious, weak and vacillating. 
Clash with bosses and government, defalcation and trouble 
with customs, income tax etc. 

Sun afflicted in signs of Mercury and Jupiter gives diseases 
related to lungs, consumption. Afflicted in sign Cancer 
makes one sick with defective eyesight. In 6" from Moon 
and. afflicted could mean trouble with intestines and digestive 
organs. Afflicted by Mars and Saturn mean operation for 
appendicitis. In the sixth it causes digestive and intestine 
problem. Afflicted in 4 or 5" house could cause heart 
problem. 


- Strong 


Persons with strong Moon are delicate, youthful, short and 
stout, are graceful, dignified, kind, humane and sympathetic, 
emotional. Refined temperament, loyal and true, they do 
not deceive a friend. 


Introduction vi 


b. Are fond of travelling, romance, publicity and public life, 
love of mystery, dreamy and idealistic, they adjust under all 
circumstances. 

c. Are imaginative, good writers, musicians, artists. 

d. IfMoon is favourably aspected by Lagna lord all ‘Arishta’ 
Yogas are cancelled. 

Moon - Weak 

a. Unluckly, disreputable, unreliable, shifty, wandering. Moon 
at 3° Scorpio causes Raj Bhanga Yoga. Makes one weak 
physically and mentally and leads to Balarishta. 

b. Afflicted Moon in 4 or hemmed in by malefics and when 
lord of 4"" house is in six, lead to death of mother. 

c. In Aries or Scorpio hemmed between malefics causes death 
by weapon or fire. 

d. Emotional instability, anxiety, inability to relate to people, 
lack of friendliness. Moody an-* depressive, mind is clouded. 

f. Diseases relating to Moon. 

g. IfMoon is weak and sign Aries and Mercury are afflicted, 
mental derangement is possible. 

Mars 


Mars - Strong 


a. 


Fearless, courageous, leader, ability to take decisions, great 
organizer. Death does not frighten him. 


b. Truthful, warm, strong in body and character. 

c. With logic and science gives mechanical skill, machinist, 
engineer, surgeon, commander-in-chief, police and inventor 
of things. As Karka for property, gives land and immovable 
property. 

d. Mars - Venus well fortified gives bright career in arts. If 
weak causes loose morals. 

Marks - Weak 

a. Quarrels, strife, violence and destructive nature. 

b. Thief, lawless and careless. 

c. Lack of energy, incapable to do work. 

d. Coward and dominated by others. 

e. Immune system weak, slow healing of wounds. 


8 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 
f. Lack of sexual vitality. 
g. Accident, violent death, self inflicted injury, argument, and 
litigation. 
Mercury 


Mercury - Strong 


a. 
b. 


so moan 


i. 
j. 


Knowledgeable, well informed, active, quick and alert. 
Good in languages, commerce, science, art, and 
communication. Excellent intelligence and witty speech. 
Fine command of vocabulary. 

Good conversationalist, loves lecturing. 

Magnetism, diplomacy, double-dealing. 

Popular with opposite sex. 

Retentive memory. 

According to Brihat Jatak "Mercury in Sagittarius gives 
respect by king, learned and timely speech. Success in 
education, meeting religious people, charitable and religious 
acts." 

Scholar, author and speaker. 

Strong body. 


Mercury - Weak 


a. 
b. 


c 
d. 
S 
Jupiter 
Jupiter 


Soe mo ao op 


Weak, petty minded, lack of ambition. 

Mercury is child. Weak Mercury gives health problem while 
young, gives trouble at home and difficulty at school. 
Immature, dishonest, thief. 

Fool, idiot. 

Defect in speech, nervous disorder. 


- Strong 

Generous, charitable, philanthropic, social uplift. 
Cheerful, incapable of lasting resentment. 
Social and sympathetic, good company. 
Ambitious projects on a grand scale. 

Lucky by birth. 

Pleased easily, good friends and good leader. 
Religious, lawful, moral. 

Sympathetic and strong in affection. 


Introduction 9 


i. In contrast to Mercury, Jupiter is always faithful. 
Jupiter - Weak 

a. Exaggeration, high living, braggadocio 

b. Low energy, enthusiasm, weak will and faith. 

c. Material and financial difficulties. 

d. Poor vitality, liver and pancreatic problem. 


Venus 
Venus - Strong 
a. Artistic, docile, gentle. 
b. Refined, cultured. 
c. Art, music, painting, singing, dance and poetry. 
d. Feminine grace, happy, healthy, knows no sorrow and anger. 
e. Loves friends, conversation, social and cultured, easy going, 
not selfish and has sweet temper. 


Venus - Weak 
a. Idle, unclean. 
b. Pervert, neglect of domestic life. 
c. Lack of beauty, charm, grace, love and affection. 
d. Weak kidney and reproductive system. 
e. Is lust of Kalapurusha, gross sexual pleasures, With Rahu 
gives sexual perversions. 
f. Impotent, imbecile, does not have love of art. 
g. Disappointment in love, death of wife. 


Saturn 
Saturn - Strong 
a. Philosopher, melancholy, thrifty, careful, cautious and slow. 
b. Patient, endurance, hard work, sincere, honest. 
c. Property and fixed assets. 
d. Spiritual life, concentration, disciplines. 
e. Shiva works through Saturn, all limitations can be overcome. 


Saturn - Weak 
a. Tyrant and mean, selfish and ugly. 
b. Pre vert, thief, criminal, cheat. 
c. Karka for death, disease, poverty, separation. 
d. Chronic diseases of old age, arthritis, cancer. 


10 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


e. Bondage and servitude. 
f. Separation from loved ones. 
g. Sexual perversion, evil minded. 


Well placed planets and their effect on character 

A strong and well-placed planet leaves his imprint on the character 
of the person. In this regard primary credit goes to Lagna lord/ 
planet placed in Lagna, 10" lord or planet placed in 10”. 


Sun 

Strong Sun gives qualities of leadership, kindness; generosity makes 
one free from disease, gives energy and wealth. It gives nobility of 
mind, loyalty, truthfulness, fearlessness, glory, success and victory. 
According to Phala Deepika, Sun gives fame courage and 
magnetism. A good Sun not owning 6, 8 or 12 and owning a Kendra 
or Trikona placed in 1* is a great source of strength. In the natural 
zodiac it is lord of auspicious fifth house, which represents Purva 
Punya, Karmas of the past life. A strong Sun is a great factor for 
success in life. 

Weak Sun makes one egotist, fond of flattery, gives false pride, 
vain glorious, and fond of exaggeration. 


Moon 

Moon makes one kind humane, sympathetic extremely generous, 
emotional, fond of travel, romantic, imaginative and exposed to public 
life. They fall in love for the sake of love, without self-seeking. 
That is why they make good writers. It is Karka for mind and gives 
mental strength and prosperity. 

Weak Moon makes one unstable, unreliable, shifty wandering, moody, 
without any aim. 


Mars 

Strong Mars gives courage, initiative, daring warmth of feeling and 
truthfulness. Person with strong Mars especially in Lagna or on 
Moon sign know no fear. Gandhiji was born with Chitra rising, Lagna 
lord in Lagna with Mars. He had great energy and moral strength, 
which cannot make him defeated. (See Horoscope of Mahatma 
Gandhi P-27) Weak Mars tends to encourage quarrels and strife, 
violence destruction, and proneness to accidents. It makes one 
lawless, licentious and thief, ready to commit rape and murder. 


Introduction 


Mercury 

Strong Mercury makes one intelligent, humorous and quick-witted. 
It gives new knowledge, honours in sports and profits in business. 
With Venus it gives talent for music. 

Weak Mercury makes one nervous especially with Rahu, shifty, 
gives mental derangement and skin trouble. 

Jupiter 

Strong Jupiter makes one cheerful, hopeful generous, just incapable 
of lasting resentment, disposed to grandiose schemes, social, easy 
going and sympathetic with magnetic personality. Gives eminence 
in every thing. Grants wisdom and Sadgati. According to Jatak 
Parijat, Jupiter in the 4™ gives Sukhmeva (only happiness). 
Jupiter is Karka for Dharma, religion, compassion, spiritualism, inner 
Gyan, truthfulness and righteousness, if well placed in the horoscope 
is gift from God. Placed in Lagna, where it gets directional strength 
and aspects, 5 and 9* houses, the houses of Purva Punya and 
good fortune, it washes away hundreds of sins. According to Brihat 
Parasara Hora Shastra Jupiter in Kendra is a great protector. 

Ill placed and weak Jupiter leads to exaggeration, extravagance, 
high living and bragging. In the first house it makes one self indulgent, 
fond of food and makes one corpulent. 

Venus 

Venus makes one elegant, artistic, refined, cultured and social. He 
appreciates the things of beauty which is joy forever. Strong Venus 
makes one handsome, gives sex appeal and personal magnetism 
and makes one interested in music, art, dance and fine arts. 
Weak and afflicted, makes one pervert, unclean and disorderly. It 
spoils happy married life and causes delays in marriage. 

Saturn 

Saturn makes one philosopher and melancholy. Thrifty, careful 
cautions and slow. Patient and enduring, steadfast in devotion. has 
strong likes and dislikes. Copies foreign customs. 

Afflicted and weak Saturn makes one mean, morbid and cruel. 
Extremely selfish, unfortunate and neglected. 

Step 6. Role of Dusthan Houses 

According to Brihat Parasara Hora Shastra 6, 8, and 12 houses are 
Dusthanas or Trika houses. These houses are evil with a negative 


12 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


role and have adverse implications for the chart. 
The 6th house even though is an 'Upachaya’' house is the house of 
debt, diseases and enemies. 
Eighth house is the house of death, accidents, chronic diseases, 
thefts, suffering, humiliation and obstacles. 
The twelfth house relates to expenditure, destruction, loss and 
downfall. 
Not only these houses are evil but lords of these also have propensity 
to do evil. Malefics in these houses cause untold misery and are 
weaknesses of the chart. 
Signification of a Bhava suffers if its lord is in 6, 8 or 12. Similarly 
lords of 6, 8 and 12" destroy the signification of house with which 
they combine or associate. For example if Lagna lord is in 6, 8 and 
12 and is afflicted with the conjunction or aspect of malefics, health 
would suffer. Similarly placement of lord of two i.e., lord of wealth 
in 8th, 6th or 12this not auspicious and good for wealth. Same will 
be the result if lords of 6, 8, or 12 are in Lagna or 2nd house or for 
that matter in any house. This applies to all the houses. 
Note: No Bhava should be treated as bad because 
all Bhavas are part of a divine scheme and have a 
certain function to perform. Sixth Bhava is good 
to achieve victory, eighth Bhava is important part 
of Moksha _ triangle and is good for awakening 
kundalini, and is also necessary for deep 
researches. Twelfth Bhava is essential for achieving 
Moksha or salvation. 
Step 7. Nakshatras 


Nakshatras have an important role to play in prediction. Memorize 
the placement of Nakshatras in each Rasi. We have a separate 
chapter on Nakshtras giving an easy rule to memorize them, their 
lord etc. Generally if the planets are in the Nakshtras of benefic 
planets or in their own Nakshatra they get strengthened. 
Nakshatras are important otherwise also. Bharni Nakshatra is not 
considered auspicious. Bajpai - Musharaff talks were held in Agra 
during last visit of Pakistan's President of India. These talks were 
held under Bharni Nakshatra and hence were doomed to failure. 
Again K.N. Rao's world famous predictions that entry of Saturn in 


Introduction 13 


Rohini Nakshatra leads to war and world wide calamities has come 
truemany times. When Saturn was in Rohini Nakshatra World Trade 
Center in USA was given a devastating blow by the terrorists on 
11th September 2001. And rest of the events, war in Afghanistan, 
overthrow of Taliban regime, bankruptcy of Argentina, famines, 
fires and floods in various parts of the world, Indo Pakistan border 
clashes etc. are testimony to the truths contained in classical books 
and vindication of Hindu astrology. 

Step 8. Dasha Scheme 

The Dasha scheme allotted at birth is result of one's Karma. If one 
gets good Dasha like Dasha of benefic planets, of Lagna lord or 
lord of nine in the beginning of life, one has initial advantage. The 
education is good and as a result the prospects for a good job 
increases. 

In this connection Dasha of the 5th lord should be watched as Sth 
house represents Karmas of previous life. If this lord is afflicted 
and this Dasha comes in life, this could be a troublesome period as 
the bad Karmas of previous life are going to bear their fruit. 

The best Dasha of life are Dasha of an exalted planet, Dasha of 
tenth lord and Lagna lord. 

JL Nehru the famous late Prime Minister of India got the right 
Dasha at the right time. He got Dasha of unafflicted Moon, his 
Lagna lord in 1948 and later that of strong 10th lord Mars, who is 
aspecting its own 10th house. He was catapulted to the post of 
India's first Prime Minister in August 1947 and to glory and fame 
bypassing the claims of Sardar Patel. His tenth house was very 
strong being aspected by its own lord and three benefics Jupiter, 
Mercury and Venus. 

Step 9. Combination of Good Houses with Evil Houses 
Please remember that there are two types of houses in the horoscope 
Group I 

Houses 1, 4, 7 and 10 (Kendra Houses), 5th and 9th (Trikona 
Houses), 2nd (house of wealth) and 11th (house of gain). 

Group I 

Houses 3rd, 6th, 8th and 12th 

The combination of houses in type 1 with each other give good 
results like wealth etc. and are called Dhana Yogas. For example 


14 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


combination of 1 st lord with 4th or 7th lord or with 5th or 9th lord 
with 2nd and 11 th lords are considered good and are wealth giving 
combinations. Similarly, combination of 5th lord with 4 or 2 or 11 is 
good. 
In the same way combination of any of the lord of 3, 6,8 or 12 with 
any lord in group II is good and gives wealth. This also constitute 
Vipreet Raj Yoga e.g. combination of 3rd lord with 6th or 8th or 
12thlord/house is good. 
But combination of any of the lords in group 1 with any of the lord 
in group 2 gives evil results. Similarly combination of any of the 
lords in group 2 with any lord in group 1 leads to evil and is called 
‘Daridra’ or poverty giving Yoga. 
Step 10. Planets in their own houses or aspecting their own 
houses do good : 
According to Phala Deepika houses associated or aspected by their 
own lords or benefics or planets owning auspicious houses produce 
good results provided they are not associated or aspected by 
malefics. These good effects will be insured even when the planets 
are debilitated or combust. Supposing Saturn is posited in the eighth 
house in its own Rasi Capricorn then even though Saturn is a natural 
malefic planet and has the tendency to spoil all the houses where it 
is located, but since in this particular case it is in its own house it will 
give all the good results of the eighth house. It will bestow native 
with long life, give sudden gains and inheritance and protect him 
from diseases and accident. But since this Saturn is also lord of 
nine, it as lord of nine in eight will spoil the signification of 9" house, 
for example he will not be so luckly, there will be obstacle on the 
road to success, it might cause problems for father during its Dasha 
etc. Now take another case for Virgo Lagna here Saturn is lord of 
five and six, a good house and a bad one. Supposing it is posited in 
the fifth house then even though it is malefic but just because it is in 
its own house it will give all the benefits pertaining to this house like 
native will have good children, he will be well educated, will be 
lucky in lottery, romances etc., but since it is also lord of six, there 
will be some hindrances and obstacles, education will be there but 
not so high; children will be born but not many and so on. 
Step 11. Ownership of Good and Bad houses 
If a planet is lord of both a good house and a bad one then for the 


Introduction 15 


assessment of his overall effects see in which house its Mooltrikona 
sign is located. If it is located in a good house overall effects will be 
good. For example in Gemini Lagna Saturn is lord of eight and nine. 
In this case Saturn's Mooltrikona sign is in ninth an auspicious house, 
therefore, overall effects of this Satum will be good. But in case of 
Virgo Lagna where Saturn is lord of 5th and 6th, its Mooltrikona 
sign is in the sixth. Therefore, Saturn of this Lagna will be overall 
malefic in nature, but it will have its good effects of lord of five 
also. It will give education but not so high etc. 

Step 12. Judgement of a Particular House: 

For judgement of any house the following three factors are to be 
taken into account; 

a. House 

b. House lord/ its dispositor - Dispositor is the lord of Rasi 
where the planet is located, e.g., in the horoscope on next 
page the dispositor of Moon is Mars, as Moon is in Scorpio 
Rasi whose lord is Mars. Not only the planet should be 
strong, its dispositor should also be strong i.e. should not be 
in 6, 9 or 12 or debilitated/combust etc. 

c. Karka - For example if we have to study the fourth house 
we will have to see the condition of the 4th house, its lord 
and Karka. Fourth house represents many things, property, 
mother, vehicles etc. For property we will see the condition 
of Karka for property which is Mars, for mother Karka is 
Moon and for vehicles Venus. 

House 

A house is strong if: (a) It is aspected by its own lord or has its own 
lord placed in it. (b) has benefic planets or is aspected by benefic 
and (c) is in 'Shubhkartari' Yoga. 

i. A house is considered weak if it has malefic planets or is 
aspected by malefics and is under Pap Kartari Yoga. 
For example if second house has benefic planets or has the 
aspects of benefic planets it will give wealth, the face will 
be beautiful and speech would be charming. And if 2nd 
house has its own lord or has the aspect of its own lord 
wealth would be there, its quantum will be depending upon 
presence of other Yogas for wealth. Similarly, the malefic 
planets will spoil the effects of 2nd house. 


Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


it, Lord of the House: A strong lord of the house will promote 
the effects of the house. We have already explained the 
results of strong and weak planets. 

Example: An exalted fourth lord will give much property 
if the Karka Mars is also strong. 

ill. No prediction should be given unless you have taken into 
consideration the condition of Karka also. For example to 
predict about marriage you will consider not only 7th house 
and 7th lord but also its Karka Venus. A strong and well 
placed Venus is necessary for a happy and successful 
married life. 

iv. According to Phala Deepika malefics should not occupy 5, 
9,4, 8 and 12 from a house. 

Example: This is the horoscope of a famous musician Dr. 
Balkrishna Murali. We will study the condition of the mother: 


For giving predictions about mother we will study 4th house, 4th 
lord and Moon and one more factor 4th from Moon. This is an 
additional tool: for father we will also see 9th from Sun, for children 
5th from Jupiter, for brothers 3rd from Mars and for wife 7fh from 
Venus and so on. 

Fourth House: Let us study the fourth house first. Fourth house is 
vacant and has no benefic or malefic aspect. 

Fourth Lord: 4th lord is Jupiter which is with a malefic Sun and 
aspected by Saturn. The fourth lord is heavily afflicted. 


Jup 
Raku Mars Mer 
; | sun 


Ven 


Dr. Balkrishna Murali Musician 


Dr. Balkrishot 


Murah Musician 


Lag Moon Ketu 
Sal | 


Introduction 17 


Karka: Karka for mother is Moon. Moon is debilitated and is in the 

12th. It is in Pap Kartari Yoga and is aspected by Mars. Thus Karka 

is totally afflicted and is powerless to protect the mother. In Ashtak 

Varga it has only three Bindus and hence is very week. In Navamsa 

also Moon is afflicted by Mars and 8th lord Mercury. 

Fourth from Moon: The fourth from Moon is Aquarius sign which 

is aspected by Saturn. The fourth lord from Moon is Satur and is 

aspected by Sun and Mars. Fourth house and fourth lords are badly 
afflicted. 

Result: Balamurali lost his mother when he was quite young. 

Other Points to be remembered are : 

1. According to Phala Deepika if the house under examination 
is in the 6th, 8th or 12th from the Lagna, that house is 
destroyed. The same will be the result if that house is occupied 
by lords of 6, 8thor 12th. The house concerned will, however, 
flourish if it is aspected by a benefic. 

2. Malefics occupying the 6th, 8th and 12th house with reference 
to Lagna or other house under examination cause the 
destruction of that house, according to Phala Deepika. 

3. "Whichever house is occupied by the lord of Lagna gains in 
prosperity and well being. The good effects of such houses 
are enhanced if their lords are associated or aspected by the 
lords of Lagna" - Phala Deepika. 

4. According to Phala Deepika Shloka 41, Sun and Moon are 
declared to be auspicious even when they own the 8th house 
i.e. for the people born in Makara and Dhanu they are 
respectively auspicious. This is because the Sun becomes the 
creator for person born in Makara, while the Moon becomes 
the owner of the house in which Jupiter lord of Dhanu is 
exalted. 

5. Lord of any house under consideration should not be in 3rd, 
5th or 7th Nakshatra reckoned from Janam Nakshatra. The 
third Nakshatra from Janam Nakshatra (nakshatra in which 
Moon is located at birth), is called Vipat Tara, 5th is Pratyari 
whereas 7th Nakshatra is called Vadha Tara. The lords of 
these Nakshatras are evil according to Phala Deepika. 


Chapter | 
First House or Lagna 


Body and Personality 

The first house is known as Tanu Bhava. It represents: 

1. Body, its form, colour, complexion etc., 

2. Personality. 

3. General prosperity, 

4. Beginning of life, childhood. 

5. Health and character. 
According to sage Sattyacharya first house shows stay in foreign 
land, good and bad acts, place of residence, Balarishta or death at 
a young age, happiness or unhappiness. 
Uttara Kalamitra assigns 33 significations to the first house, among 
these are body limbs, hair, happiness, fame and freedom from ill 
health. 
‘The body, its complexion, its characteristics, fame, qualities, 
happiness or unhappiness, residence abroad, splendor, strength and 
weakness are known from first Bhava,’ says Jatak Parijat. 
According to the same book ‘the more auspicious the rising sign is, 
the longer will one live and be happy, and be in the good books of 
the rulers. According to K.N. Rao, Lagna, Moon and the Sun are 
three tripods on which a horoscope stands, if all the three are strong, 
the horoscope becomes powerful, and person is renowned, gets 
well recognized and may even achieve international fame. Phala 
Deepika is also of the view that strength of a horoscope depends to 
a great extent on the strength of Lagna, Sun and Moon. 
Role of Navamsa 


Features and nature of a person are known from the lord of rising 
Navamsa at his birth or from powerful planet occupying Lagna. Its 
complexion is known from the Navamsa occupied by Moon. All 
good and evil in life ofa person are known from Lagna as per Jatak 
Parijat. 

‘With Sun in its own Navamsa and Moon in its own sign, native 
becomes a king’ - Phala Deepika 

Importance of Lagna (Ascendant) and Lagna Lord 
The role of Lagna lord cannot be over emphasised. A strong Lagna 
lord assures success in life. It is likened to engine of train of one's 


Ist House 19 


Destiny. The more powerful the engine, smoother is the journey of 
life. According to Jatak Parijat ifthe rising sign is aspected by its 
own lord, one will be master of riches, be a genius and would bring 
good name to his family. 

Strong Ascendant Lord 

It is said that a person rises in life in proportion to the strength of 
Lagna lord. The mere occupation of Lagna by benefics or aspect 
of benefics is harbinger of good fortune. Lagna with benefics or 
aspected by functional benefics bestows great fortune in all walks 
of life. 

Vargottam Lagna adds additional strength. 

If the Lagna lord is placed in a Kendra along with a lord of Trikona 
or conjoined with lord of 10 native will enjoy prosperity and long 
lease of life. 

Lord of Lagna and lord of 8 both strong aspected by benefics give 
long life. 

According to Phala Deepika if lord of Lagna is strong the native 
becomes famous, will be happy and prosperous. If, however the 
lord of Lagna be placed in 6th, 8th, or 12th or is debilitated or in the 
sign of a malefic the native will be miserable and live in undesirable 
place. He will lead a sickly life. (This could be true only if Lagna 
lord is afflicted). According to the same book if Lagna lord is exalted, 
person will be a king provided it is not in 6th, 8th or 12th. 

Health 

Parasara says that, if Lagna lord is well placed and is placed in 
Kendras or Trikona the native will enjoy good health. The health 
suffers if Lagna lord (i) is placed in 6th, 8th or 12th. According to 
same authority if Ascendant lord along with malefics occupies 6th, 
8th or 12thhouse and is devoid of the conjunction or aspect of a 
benefic, the native will have short life or will have no issue. (ii) is 
combust (iii) is debilitated (iv) is in enemy's sign (v) has lost in 
planetary war (vi) if there are no benefics in Kendras (vii) if malefics 
are not in 3th, 6th and 11th (viii) if Moon has no Pakshabala, is in 
6th, 8th, and 12th and is badly afflicted by malefics. While malefic 
planets are not considered good in 8th house, the Saturn as Ayush 
Karka (significator of long life) gives long life in 8th house. For 
strong health and long life Lagna lord should be stronger than 8th 
lord. 


20 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


Afflicted 1st House 

a. The health of the person is not good if the first house is with 
malefics or has the aspect of malefic planets and 

b. Is in Pap Kartari Yoga. 


Bad Dasha 

a. Dasha of the malefic planets or lords of 6th, 8th and 12th 
are not conducive to good health. 

Note: Only one factor cannot give bad health. If Lagna lord 
is in Oth, 8th, and 12th and is also afflicted by the aspect/ 
association of malefics. only then the health suffers. 

b. Aspect on Lagna lord: malefic aspect causes problems 
for the health, while aspects or conjunction with benefic planets is 
good, says Parasara. 

// there are malefics in the first house the birth, infancy or 
youth becomes traumatic. Body and personality is obscured, 
disfigured or problematic. 


Handsome Personality 

Benefic in Ascendant makes one handsome, while malefics are 
not conducive to good looks - Parasara. 

According to Stree Jatakam if second and twelfth lords are benefic 
and join Lagna with no malefic planets, body becomes beautiful. 
Aspect of Moon or Venus on the first house or their strong placement 
in kendras give a handsome personality. 


General Prosperity 

According to Brihat Parasara Hora Shastra, Lagna lord, Jupiter, 
Venus, Mercury in Kendra and Trikonas, makes one healthy, wealthy 
and successful. 

Lagna lord in a movable sign and having aspect of benefics also 
gives fame, wealth and happiness. 

Lagna lord in 12th in its own Navamsa causes Vimal Yoga which 
brings luck, prosperity and influence. (see horoscope of Nargis Dutt). 
According to Prassan Reed 6th lord in 12th as also Lagna lord 
makes one rich. 

Lagna with/aspected by its own lord is a major Raj Yoga because 
it gives one an initial advantage in life. 


Ist House 21 


J. L. Nehru 
Cancer sign is rising with Moon posited there, with no malefic aspect 
on Lagna. Nehru had a handsome personality. 


Pandit J. L. Nehru - First Prime Minister of India 


Pandit F.L. Nehna 
4 14 Nov [889 


11:05 pm 


Indira Gandhi 
Cancer sign rising aspected by its own lord Moon from 7th. There 
is Rasi Parivartan Yoga between | st and 7 lords. Also Moon sign 


Indira Gandhi: Daughter of JL Nehru and also late P. M. of India 


lndira Gandhi 
19 Now [917 


fi:1l pm 
Allahabad 


aspected by its own lord is Yoga for prosperity. 


22 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


Rajiv Gandhi 

In Rajiv Gandhi's horoscope Lagna is Leo with Sun in it forming 
major Raj Yoga with other planets with Jupiter lord of 5 and Venus 
lord of 10. KN Rao writes in Nehru Dynasty "Lagna lord with 
10thlord Venus, is Yoga for becoming world famous as it happened 
in Lagna itself with the association of Jupiter, Mercury and Moon 
all three first rate benefics. It has also Mahabhagya Yoga." 
Results of Lagna Lord in different Houses 

Horoscope of Late Rajiv Gandhi, Son of Late Smt. Indira 
Gandhi and also former Prime Minister of India 


— Lag ey 
Sun Jup 


Ven 


Rajiv Gandhi 
20 Aug 1944 
O81 1 am 


{war time) 


First House 

This is a good combination for fame and riches. The person enjoys 
good healt and has a long life. He is generally a success in life. He 
will be thoughtful and intelligent. 

However, if Lagna lord is afflicted with malefics it will cause bad 
health. According to Parasara he will be fickle minded, will have 
two wives and will be immoral. 
Second House 

This is a combination for earning money by self-efforts. One is 
learned, happy, good natured, religious minded and honourable. He 
also looks after his near family and relatives and is generous. 

He is successful in business and has great power of observation. 
Third House 

This is a good combination for artistic abilities. One is courageous, 
respectable, fortunate, intelligent, happy, famous as a musician artist 
or a mathematician. 


Ist House 23 


Lagna lord in 3rd house gives vigour and spirit. According to Parasara 
one will be equal to a lion in valour, will have all kinds of wealth and 
will be intelligent and happy. 

If the lord is afflicted it will give opposite results, his vitality and 
strength suffers. 


Fourth House 

This is a good combination for wealth and prosperity as Lagna is a 
Kendra as well as Trikona, so association of Lagna and fourth 
house causes Kendra Trikona Raj Yoga. It is good for fame, riches 
and good education. This combination is good for prosperity to 
mother also. The health of the person is good. 

According to Parasara native is blessed with paternal and maternal 
happiness, has many brothers and will be lascivious and charming. 
The fourth house represents mind and the Lagna is body. Person 
becomes involved with his personality and tries to look handsome 
and attractive. 


Fifth House 

Lagna lord in the 5th is always auspicious. It is again a combination 
of Kendra and Trikona. It makes one famous, liked by rulers and 
makes one very intelligent and gives artistic abilities. 

According to Bhavarth Ratnakar for Aries Lagna Mars in 5 gives 
fame during its Dasha. 

And Jatak Parijat says ‘If the Lagna lord is in 5th or 9th, or with 
lord of 5,9 or Lagna, father of the person is a famous man’. 

In the horoscope of Dr. Rabindra Nath Tagore, first lord is in the 
Sth exalted. 

Lagna lord in 5 is always auspicious-But Parasara says that it does 
not give much happiness from sons and first child may not live 
long. (This may only happen if the lord is debilitated or afflicted.) 


Sixth House 

If the Lagna lord is strong it may give a high rank in the army, or 
may take one to medical profession where one may prosper. 
However, Lagna lord in the sixth with malefics or having aspect of 
malefics is not good for health. One will also be troubled by his 
enemies. 

According to Bhavarth Ratnakar if birth is in Aries sign and Mercury 
Mars are in the 6th one gets wounds, skin eruption and small pox in 


24 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 
their dasha. Here it must be understood that Mercury in Aries 


Dr. Rabindra Nath Tagore: Famous Poet and Nobel Laureate 


Or. Rabindra Nath 
Tagore 


7 May 1861 
2:5] am 


Lagna is lord of 3 and 6 and Mars while being Lagna lord is also 
lord of eight. According to the same book there will be debts but 
will be liquidated in the dasha of the first lord. 

If the lord is well placed, body will be healthy and person will be 
fond of sports. 

Seventh House 

While it is good for general health and prosperity as Lagna lord 
aspects its own house; it may some times give two marriages. Lagna 
lord in movable signs in the 7th house may give much travelling 
also. 

Eighth House 

If Lagna lord is strong it makes one learned, popular and with a 
religious bent of mind as 8th is an important part of Moksha triangle. 
Otherwise, one with Lagna lord in the eight with malefic aspect/ 
association gets chronic and incurable diseases. According to 
Parasara he will be sickly, thievish, extremely wrathful, a gambler 
and interested in others’ wives. 

According to Bhavarth Ratnakar one is lucky in Aries Lagna if 
Moon and Mars are in Ascendant or in eight. 

Prashar says he will also have knowledge of occult powers. 

If the Lagna lord is strong one gets unexpected wealth, lottery, 
legacy and money through speculation. 


Ist House 25 


Ninth House 

It is an excellent combination of kendra and a trikona. One is very 
intelligent, lucky, rich with religious bent of mind and gets inheritance 
from father. According to Parasara he will be fortunate, dear to the 
people, devotee of Lord Vishnu (means religious), skilful, eloquent 
speaker and will have wife, sons and wealth. 

This is good for father also as he is famous truthful and charitable. 
If the lord is debilitated or afflicted it brings bad results, person will 
be unfortunate, will be opposed by people, does not believe in religion, 
is pessimist and unhappy. 

In the horoscope of Ramakrishna Paramhansa Lagna lord Saturn 
is exalted in the 9th house. He was a great Guru who produced a 
great disciple by the name of Swami Vivekananda - one of the 
brightest sons of India. 

Horoscope of Ramakrishna Paramhansa - page 19 Tried techniques 
of Predictions by K.N. Rao. 


Ramakrishna Paramhansa: Great saint and founder of Rama Krishna Mission. 


Ramakrishna 
Paramhansa 
18 Feb (834 


(6:23 an 
Long.L: 085E07" 
Lat: 25N36' 


Tenth House 


It is good combination of kendra and trikona. Self is in the house of 
Karma. One is eminent and self made man. Has professional success 
and can be a research scholar. Is religious, god fearing and charitable. 
Is also rich famous and achieves high rank. 

According to Parasara, ‘the native will be endowed with paternal 
happiness, will enjoy royal favour, fame among men and will have 
self earned wealth. 


6 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


In the horoscope of Bhakti Vedanta Swami Prabhupad, Lagna lord 
Satum is exalted in the 10th house. Swami was the founder of the 
ISCKON movement and spread Lord's name in all the villages and 
cities of the world. 

Horoscope of Bhakti Vedanta Swami Prabhupad (page 155 
Successful Predictive Techniques of Hindu Astrology by K. N. Rao) 


Bhakti Vedanta Swami Prabhupad - Founder ISCKON 


Swami Prabhupad 
1 Sep 1836 


03:45 pm 
Caleutta 


Eleventh House 

Elder brother helps, prosperity, gains in business. He will have wealth, 
moves in a high society and has vehicles. 

In Aries Lagna Sun, Mercury and Venus in I1 give much wealth- 
Bhavarth Ratnakar. 

Twelfth House 

Twelfth is the house of loss. Health may not be good but since 12th 
is Moksha Sthan also it may give a spiritual bent of mind. Visits 
holy places, gives money in charity. 

May settle abroad or be a doctor. 

Planets in the First House 

Here we must follow the general rules. The benefics, which are 
Jupiter, Venus, Mercury, waxing Moon are good in kendras or 
trikona. 

Sun 

A good Sun not owning 6th, 8th or 12th, and owning a kendra or 


Ist House 27 


trikona placed in 1 st is a great source of strength. In the first house 
it gives a strong moral nature, ambition, love of power and good 
health. According to Chamatkar Chintamani exalted Sun well 
aspected or associated in the rising sign symbolizes progress and 
good luck. With malefics like Saturn and Mars the blood becomes 
impure. 

Weak Sun makes one egotist, fond of flattery false pride, vain 
glorious and fond of exaggeration. 

Moon 

"If the full Moon is Vargottam one becomes a powerful king". 
Phala Deepika 

Makes one kind, human, sympathetic extremely generous, emotional. 
One is fond of travel, is romantic, imaginative and exposed to public 
life. It is Karka for mind and gives mental strength and prosperity. 
With Moon in the first one becomes romantic and fanciful, idealist, 
traveller, explorer and good writer. 

Moon with Saturn gives gloomy disposition. With Mars causes 
menstrual disorders in women. It also makes one fearless. With 
Rahu it makes one hysterical and combination with Jupiter is good 
for prosperity, wealth and high ideals. 

Weak Moon makes one unstable, unreliable, shifty wandering, moody 
and without aim. 

Mars 

Strong Mars gives courage, initiative, daring, warmth of feeling and 
truthfulness. One knows no fear. Gandhiji was born with Chitra 


Horoscope of Mahatma Gandhi: 


Mahatma Gandht 
02 Oct 1869 


&:3$am 


28 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


rising. His Lagna lord Venus was in Lagna with Mars He was 
fearless and energetic and could not be defeated. 

Strong Mars makes one reckless, rash and handsome. He might 
have scars on the face. He has drive and courage. 

Afflicted Mars gives bad health, makes one prone to accident and 
gives domestic unhappiness and disturbs marriage as it aspects 
seventh house also. 

Mercury 

Strong Mercury makes one intelligent, gives new knowledge, honours 
in sports, profit in business, humorous and quick-witted. With Venus 
gives talent for music and art and makes one intellectual. 

Weak Mercury makes one nervous especially with Rahu, shifty, 
gives mental derangement, skin and nervous trouble. 

Jupiter 

Strong Jupiter makes one cheerful, hopeful, generous, just, incapable 
of lasting resentment, disposed to grandiose schemes, social, easy 
going and sympathetic, and magnetic personality. Gives eminence 
in everything. Grants wisdom and Sadgati. 

Jupiter is Karka for Dharma, religion, compassion, spiritualism, inner 
Gyan, truthfulness and righteousness, if well placed in the horoscope, 
is gift from God. Placed in Lagna, where it gets directional strength 
and aspects 5th and 9th houses, the houses of Purva Punya and 
good fortune, it washes away hundreds of sins. According to 
Parasara Jupiter in Kendra is a great protector. 

Ill placed and weak Jupiter leads to exaggeration, extravagance, 
high living and bragging. In the first house it makes one self indulgent, 
fond of food and corpulent. 

Venus 

Docile, gentle, kindly, elegant and artistic. Refined, cultured and 
social. Believes in things beautiful which to him is a joy forever. 
Makes one interested in music, art, dancing, and drama. There is 
craving for pleasure, one is popular with the opposite sex, has sex 
appeal, magnetic and attractive personality. Marriage takes places 
early if Venus is not afflicted. 

Weak and afflicted, makes one pervert, unclean and disorderly. 


Ist House 29 


Saturn 

Exalted or in its own sign it gives rise to Mahapurush Yoga by the 
name of 'Sassa Yoga’ which is a Yoga of prosperity. He is 
contemplative and considerate, diligent, sincere and serious. Success 
is slow but sure. He is handsome with charismatic personality. 

In other signs the results are not good. He is gloomy, emaciated, 
discontented and secretive. Loss through slackness misfortune or 
delays, given to nervousness and timidity but become bold from 
middle age. 

Ailing, ugly, evil minded or crafty. Trouble due to poverty, own acts, 
evil spirits and thieves. He has ugly looks, is jealous of others and 
suffers from various ailments. 

Troubled in the nose, wrinkled partner, respiratory problems if 
afflicted. Problems in the joints and pain in private parts. In Gemini 
Lagna-Saturn and Mars gives paralysis and nervous breakdown. 

In Virgo Lagna. Saturn and Mars give kidney, lumbago and 
abdominal problems. Saturn is good in signs of Jupiter, Sagittarius 
and Pisces. It is Yoga Karka in horoscope having Taurus or Libra 
ascendants. 

Rahu 

If well placed in exaltation or own sign is conqueror of enemies. 
Gives dominating personality. Gains honour, wealth and favour 
through religious, educational and scientific achievements. With the 
help of others achieves great success. In Aries, Cancer and Leo it 
is considered good for wealth. 

Has tremendous sex desire and tendency for adultery involves lot 
of suffering is, ugly and foolish, cruel, irreligious and immoral and 
sick. Gives headache, sickness and is short-lived. Denies happiness 
through wife and children. 

Ill health, eccentric, problems in marriage, love for occult studies. 

Ketu 

Weak and lean body, instability, psychic, wandering nature, marriage 
life disturbed. 

Yogas of the First House 

1. Chamara Yoga 

Ascendant combining with strong benefic and lord of Lagna exalted 
or in its own sign in kendra or trikona. 


30 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


Result: rich, famous, long-lived and king. 


2. Parvata Yoga 
a. According to Phala Deepika Lagna lord in Kendra, Trikona, 
exalted or in its own sign. 
Result: modest, virtuous, famous, king. 
b. According to Jatak Parijat this Yoga is formed in two ways 
i) Benefics in angles; 8 and 12 free; one planet in 9 
strengthens this Yoga. 
ii) Lagna lord and 12 lord in mutual angles and aspected 
by friendly planets. 
There is still another version, according to which Parvata Yoga is 
formed, if benefics are in Kendra, and 6 and 8, houses are either 
vacant or occupied by benefics. 


3. Parijat Yoga 

Second dispositor of Lagna lord/Navamsa Lagna in Kendra, trine, 
own houses or exalted. World fame - lord of many worlds. If ascetic, 
he would be widely recognized if other Parivraja Yogas are present. 
Most of the horoscopes of eminent persons have this Yoga. 
Alexander, Lincoln, Dr. Rajendra Prasad, Lal Bahadur Shastri, V.P. 
Singh, Lata Mangeshkar are few of the examples. 


4. According to one Shloka native born in Leo Lagna in a Navamsa 
other than Venus with Sun in Lagna and Mercury in the second 
house - even one born in ordinary poor family rises to position of 
prosperity. 


Chapter II 
The Second House 
Kutumba, Wealth, Speech 


This is also known as house of Kutumba and deals with 


ONDAARWN 


Immediate family. 
Face. 

Right eye. 

Food. * 
Wealth. 

Literary gift. 
Speech. 

Death. 


According to Uttra Kalamitra the 2nd house also deals among other 
things with nails, truth and falsehood, tongue, diamond, copper and 
precious stones, gold, helping others, friends power, prosperous 


living. 
Summary: to study the 2nd house, we have to examine 
the following: 
1. House: the planets in the 2nd house/aspecting the 2nd 
house. 
2. House lord: its condition, placement, aspect and 
association with other planets 
3. Karka: Karka for 2nd House is Jupiter, its condition, 
aspects, and association. 
4. Special Yogas for Wealth. 
5. Use of ‘Indu’ Lagna. 
6. Assessment of House through Jaimini Astrology. 
7. Assessment of Wealth through Ashtak Varga. 


Let us first study the 2nd house 


a. 


Second house aspected by its own lord, posited/aspected 
by benefics or exalted planets is good for wealth. 

Malefics here destroy the wealth, unless they are in their 
own houses or exalted. Saturn, Mars, Sun and Rahu/ Ketu 
are not good for wealth. The lords of 6, 8 and 12 have the 


32 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


same effect. 


b. Second Lord - According to sage Satyacharya the native 
will eam much wealth if the lord of second house is: 

i) Placed in a benefic sign, Navamsa or Nakshatra. 

ii) Is hemmed in between benefics ie. is having ‘Shubh 
Kartari Yoga’. 

iii) Is aspected by benefics. 

iv) Is placed in a Kendra (houses 1,4,7, and 10) or Trikona 
(Houses 5, or 9), from the ascendant, ascendant lord, or 
lord of the second house. 

v) Or placed in its own house or is exalted. 

The placement of lord of second house will give a clue to the source 

of income. . 

In a nut shell lord of two, exalted, in its own house, in its friend's 

house and in Kendra and Trikona is good for wealth. Similarly, it 

should be strong in Vargas. 

According to Parasara 2nd lord aspected by Jupiter makes one 

famous, as Jupiter is Karka for fame. 

According to Brihat Parasara Hora Shastra, second lord in 2nd, or 

in Kendra or Trikona promotes wealth, whereas 2nd lord in 6,8, 

and 12 is not good for wealth. 

The 2nd lord in eleven and 11 lord in 2 are good for wealth. 
According to same authority 2nd lord with a benefic, and 

Pan ‘atamsa (6 times in own Vargas) makes one rich without much 

effort. 


The affliction to lord of two is bad for wealth especially if 

i) lord of two is hemmed in between malefics. 
ii) is aspected by malefics. 
ii) its dispositor is weak. 
iv) isin 6, 8, and 12. 

v) is combust. 

vi) is debilitated. 

vii) | Second lord should not be in the Nakshatras of lords of 3, 

5, and 7 from Janam Nakshatra. 


Lord of two in different Houses 
In the First House 
If the Second lord is in the first house, is strong and is with benefics, 


2nd House 33 


one makes wealth through his own efforts. If it is weak and has 
malefic aspects there will be expenditure. 

According to Phala Deepika if there are benefics in the second 
house and second lord is in Lagna the native will be rich with a 
handsome face. He will have many good qualities and will come 
from a prosperous family. . 


In the Second House 

It is good for wealth, if not afflicted. The malefic aspects disturb 
married life and causes problems-in the immediate family, with wife, 
mother or father. 

It has been observed that malefic in the second house give science 
as a subject, and if well fortified, person achieves academic 
distinction as 2/8 axis relates to deep researches. 


Third House 

If well fortified, money will be made through art, drama music or 
with the help of brothers. The malefics will destroy wealth, and one 
of the reasons would be through brothers. The native could be a 
businessman, quarrelsome and proud. If it is Sun relations with 
brothers are not good. If it is Mars then his moral standards are not 
good. If Saturn he may have no brother. 


Fourth House - 

With benefic Yogas wealth would be generated through property, 
mother, agriculture, conveyance, lands, education and vehicles. He 
gets inheritance, is truthful and kind. Malefic Yogas will destroy 
wealth through above sources. 

If 2nd lord is debilitated in the 4th house, it could mean loss of 
property - if Saturn is involved it could mean theft. 


Fifth house 

Well fortified and with benefics wealth will be made through lotteries, 
speculation, temples and mutts, government, and children. With 
malefics the wealth will be destroyed through above causes. 


Sixth House 

Well fortified it means wealth through medical profession, enemies 
and opponents (may also mean through sports and competitions), 
litigation, theft and races. It could also mean black-marketing, 
cheating and deceit. 


34 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


With malefics and badly placed planets it could mean breach of 
trust, forgeries, perjuries and subsequent prosecution. 

Sixth is also an 'Upchaya’. house. The placement of planets in 
'Upchayas' houses (3, 6, 10, and 11) are auspicious. 


Seventh House 

Wealth through foreign sources, business in foreign countries; earns 
through partners, wife and women, if its dispositor in the birth and 
Navamsa charts is female planet. 

If afflicted this could mean wastage of money on gratification of 
Sex. 


Eighth House 

It means combination of wealth with inheritance though it may also 
mean disappearance of inherited wealth if afflicted. 2nd lord in 8th 
also aspects its own house hence is good for wealth. Also loss as 
8th is involved. 

If afflicted means no happiness from wife. 


Ninth House 
It is a good combination for wealth as wealth and good fortune 
combine. It also means wealth through father. 


Tenth House 

Learned, wealthy, money through honest means. Money through 
service, commerce, trade, religious means, lectures etc. 

Powerful affliction can cause loss of wealth. 


Eleventh House 

Connection of 2nd lord and 11 th lord is very good for wealth. The 
money is earned through money - lending, bankers, and trade and 
through elder brother. 

Twelfth House 

Acquisition of wealth through religious means, respectable, 
government servant, money through foreign sources. Also 
expenditure, lack of wealth if afflicted. 

These are general rules and should be used with caution. With 4 
and 11 houses weak and connected with malefics, the native will 
squander his money’ - says Satya Jatakam. 


2nd House 35 


Planets in the 2nd House 


Sun 

If exalted or in its own house is good for spiritual values and holding 
position of trust and is good for moral growth. Unless afflicted is 
not bad for wealth, is charitable, haughty and vain. 

Weak eyesight if afflicted, delay in marriage, family life suffers. 
Venus is natural enemy of Sun, as such Venus Sun combination is 
not good for happy married life. Has quarrels with government. 


Moon 

Wealthy, handsome, romantic and artistic talent. Fond of women. If 
well aspected has talent in music and foreign languages. 
Afflicted, dark Moon causes loss of wealth, poverty and 
disappearance of inherited property. 

Moon-Mars is combination for pharmaceutical studies/profession. 


Mars 

Cruel, angry, ugly quarrels with family, meager and untasty food. 
Has Mangal Dosha, and is bad for family harmony. Death or 
separation of wife and second matriage. Has diseases of eye, teeth, 
accidents, injury and royal disfavour. 

In its own house, exalted or aspected by benefics or having good 
lordship gives success through enterprise, legacies and inheritance. 


Mercury 
Wealthy, large hearted, very intelligent, good speech, witty, artist, 
handsome and flair for writing. 

Mercury-Moon: Gain through general public, personal 
effort. 

Mercury-Venus: Gain through fine arts 

Mercury-Jupiter: Mathematics, gain through sound 
judgement, intuition and moral principles. 

Mercury-Saturn (good aspects) - gain through diplomacy 
and hard work. 


36 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


Benefic Mercury with good aspects makes one millionaire 
and gives pleasures of bed. 

Mercury having evil aspects, with malefics or in their signs 
or in depression denies education. With benefics it gives good 
education. 


Jupiter 
Skill for poetic composition. Is a magistrate or Collector. With short 
and sweet speech, rich, grateful, handsome and intelligent. Enjoys 
delicacies. Generous, affectionate and popular. Gain through trade 
in pearls. Accumulation of wealth through many sources. Wife is 
beautiful. 


Venus 
According to Chamatkar Chintamani native with Venus in the 2" 
house is of amiable nature and has a cheering speech. He is sharp 
and religious minded, handsome and is dressed in colourful attire. 
Maintains the family culture and tradition has desire and passion 
for voluptuous women. He has everything in the family which is 
beautiful. 

Poet, artist, handsome, soft spoken and wealthy. Likes rich 
food and drinks, renowned, generous and kind. 

Venus-Moon: gain through social intercourse, travel. 

Venus-Jupiter: gain through friends and influential people 

Venus-Saturn (Saturn having lordship of 1,5 and 9)- good 
for saving money. 

If afflicted causes night blindness. Loss of wealth and 
danger to family. 

Afflicted With Mars impulsive, careless rash and 
extravagant. With Saturn - losses and poverty. He is devoted to 
his Guru and gods. 


Saturn 

According to Chamatkar Chintamani native with the Saturn in the 
2nd house is poor but finds all pleasures and happiness in a foreign 
land. He is unpleasant and quarrelsome with his friends. Is liar and 
has a speech defect and is forsaken by his family. He has a deformed 
face, is unjust and hard up. and has no younger brother. In the last 
part of life migrates to a foreign land where he prospers. 


2nd House 37 


Rahu 

With all his wealth lives in poverty. Strife and discord with relatives. 
Hard struggle to gain success. Speech defect - nose and throat 
problems. Loss of family and opponents if with malefic. Rich in 
foreign land. Gain through legacy and inheritance, science and learn- 
ing. Success through property and business. Favourable in Virgo 
and Aquarius. 


Ketu 

Mentally agitated, loss of wealth through government penalties. Harsh 
and critical in speech. 

Plenty of happiness and gains if Ketu is in Aries, Gemini or Virgo or 
in benefic sign. Sweet softspoken and successful. 


Association of Lord of Two with different Planets 
According to Phala Deepika association of Lord of two with differ- 
ent planets give following results : 

a Sun: wealthy and interested in public welfare. 

b. Moon: clever in some kind of art. 

c. Mars: he will be cruel. 

d. Mercury: native will specialise in economics or related 

subjects. 


e. Venus: romantic. 

f. Jupiter: well versed in religious literature. 

g. Saturn: benefit of learning. 

h. Rahu: stammering. 

i. Ketu: stammering and falsehood. 
Wealth 


The concerned houses are 2, 5, 9 and 11 th. Jupiter is the Karka for 
wealth. Venus as a great benefic is incarnation of goddess Lakshmi. 
If well placed in the horoscope, bestows immense wealth during its 
Dasha. In this connection Lagna is also very important. A strong 
Lagna or Lagna lord counteracts against many evil dispositions of 
the horoscope. The position of the Lagna lord in various houses will 
show the means in which his efforts will give most useful results. It 
will also show the directions in which his efforts will be fruitful. 
While examining the 2nd house the 12th house should also 
be seen. A man may have much money but he maybe miser. To 


38 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


know this it is important to study disposition of the 12thhouse of - 
expenditure. Affliction to 12th house gives a mean mentality and 
cruel temperament. 

Fourth house also plays a major role in giving wealth to the person 
as it represents real estate and vehicles. Affliction to the 4th makes 
one angry, hard hearted and sensual. fourth house is the nadir or 
underworld. It means secret aims and secret reserves or funds. If 
the fourth house is strong there will always be reserve funds and 
person will be away from want. The horoscope of many rich persons 
show that there is connection between the first and the fourth house/ 
lords. 

Maharishi Parasara has given certain combination which if found 
in horoscope give much wealth. These are as follows. 

1. Venus in the 5th as 5th lord while Mars in the 11. This 
applies to Capricorn and Gemini Lagnas. (Sth lord in the 
5th, and 11th lord in the 11 give plenty of wealth). 

2. Mars in the 5th as 5th lord, while Venus is in the 11 as 11th 

- lord. , 

3. Mercury in the 5th as 5th lord Jupiter, Mars and Moon are 
in the 11. Here Moon Jupiter form Gajkesari Yoga, while 
Mars is in 11 in its own house. 

4. Moon as the 5th lord in 5th and Satum as 11thlord in 11. 

5. Sun in the 5th as 5fh lord while Saturn Jupiter and Moon 
are in 11. Here again Saturn is in its own house in 11 while 
Jupiter and Moon form a Gajkesari Yoga. 

6. Saturn in the Sth as 5th Lord while Sun and Moon are in 11. 
Sun and Moon are in their own houses in 11 in Virgo and 
Libra Lagnas. 

7. If Lagna lord has exchanged places with the 4th lord one is 
very wealthy.’ - Bhavarth Ratnakar. 

8. Lagandhipati' and 'Dhanaadhipati’, lord of 1 and 2, related 
to each other causes 4 kinds of Dhanayogas. 

9. According to Hora Sara: Saturn-Moon combinations in 
Upachaya houses, 3, 6, 10 and 11 houses as also 5th house 
generate huge wealth. 

10. In 2, 6,9 and 11, combination of Sun and Saturn is good for 
wealth. 


2nd House 39 


11. According to Parasara one has great wealth if one among 
Moon, Jupiter, Venus and Mercury is exalted in 2nd house. 

12. “If Atmakarka is in a benefic Rasi/Navamsa the native will 
be wealthy. If there are benefics in Karkamsa Lagna, he 
will be king" - Prashar. (Atma Karka in Jaimini astrology is 
the planet which has the highest longitude in the horoscope. 
In this signs are not counted). 

- 13. According to Saravali, Saturn in the second aspected by 
Mercury gives much wealth. 

14. Sun in Lagna in the Rasi of Leo, conjunct or aspected by 
Mars and Jupiter. Here Jupiter and Mars are 5th and 9fh 
lords. 

15. If majority of the planets are in 1, 2, 6, 8and 12, or in 2, 1 or 
7. One comes up high in life by a stroke of luck. He gets 
unexpected wealth by inheritance. 

16. Lords of 6 and 11 houses combined and placed in 11, luck 
in gambling and lottery, but if this combination is in 12 it 
means loss. 

17. If lord of 6 is with unaffiliated Mercury and Moon is in 11 
one gets wealth through stock market. Mercury as lord of 
5 in 6 makes one lose in speculation. 

18. 5 and 11 combination with Rahu Ketu gives sudden gains 
and surprises. 

19. According to Hora Sara if Mercury and Venus are in 1,5, 
or 9 one becomes very rich. 

In Gemini Lagna combination of Moon, Mercury and Venus generate 
much wealth. Here 2nd is house of wealth. Moon is in its own 
house, Mercury is lord of Lagna and Venus is lord of five. 
According to Bhavarth Ratnakar the 'Dhana Yogas'’ arise if there 
is: 

1. Exchange between lords of 2 and 5 or by lord of 2 and 
eleven. 

2. Lords of 5 and 9 occupying their own houses. 

3. Lords of 2 and 11 combine with lords of 5 and 9. 

4. Jupiter combining with 2nd lord and Mercury. 


Other Combinations for Wealth 


i) 11th lord well placed in Kendras and Trikonas. 
ii) Strong malefics in the 11thhouse give much wealth. 


40 


Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


itt) Lord of Lagna, 2 and 11 strong, give much wealth. 

iv) Lagna lord in Kendra, 10 lord in four and 9th lord in 11 
gives Raj Yoga. 

v) Exchange of houses between Lagna lord and 11 lord or 
exchange between 2 and 11 lords gives much wealth and 
property. 

vi) 1 st, 2nd, 9th and 11 lords strong in Navamsa and strong in 
Vargas, Vaiseshkamsa (mooltrikona or exaltation sign in 
more than three Vargas) is a combination for millionaires. 

vii) 11 lord in 2 with 2nd lord. 

viii) Combination of 9, 11 and 2nd lords give much wealth. 

ix) Eleventh house/lord in Shubh Kartari Yoga - Sarvarth 
Chintamani. 

x) Disposition of 11thlord in Shubh Kartari Yoga/aspected by 
benefic planets - Sarvarth Chintamani. 

xi) Lord of Navamsa occupied by 11 lord or a benefic aspected 
by lord of two - Sarvarth Chintamani. 

xii) Drekkan of lord of eleven benefic and aspected by 10th 
lord. 


Jaimini Astrology and Riches 

In Jaimini Astrology wealth is judged from Arudha Lagna and Atma 
Karka. Arudha Lagna is as important as Janam Lagna. It is counted 
as follows: See how many houses lord of Lagna has traversed from 
Lagna call this A. Count as many houses from A as Lagna lord is 
away from its own house or Lagna. This gives Arudha or Pad 
Lagna. According to Jaimini one becomes rich : 


1. If the Atma Karka is in benefic Navamsa or if benefic 
planets are in Kendras from the Navamsa he occupies. 

2. If full Moon and Venus join Atma Karka in the Navamsa 
the person will command great wealth. 

3. Ifthe 11thhouse from-Pad Lagna is occupied or aspected 
by planets, one becomes rich. 

4. When 11 th from Pad Lagna is aspected or joined by benefics 
wealth will be with honourable means. 


5. Ifthe aspecting or joining planets in the above are evil, 


wealth will come through sinful means. If the 11th from 


2nd House 41 


Arudha Lagna is well combined or aspected by benefics or 
strong Planets the person will acquire plenty of wealth 
through justifiable means. 

6. Saturn or Mars debilitated in 11 from Arudha Lagna makes 


one rich. 
7. Arudha Lagna in 11,4, 5, and 7 from Lagna is good for 
wealth. 
Poverty 


1. If there are planets in 12th from Lagna or Pad Lagna, the 
person will spend more than he earns. 

2. If6, 8, or 12 from Lagna becomes Arudha Lagna one is 
poor. 


Indu Lagna and Financial Prosperity 


Ancient books on Hindu Astrology mention frequently the word 
Indu Lagna or Dhanna Lagna. It is also called Visesha Chandra 
Yoga by Parasara. Indu means Moon and this special Lagna is 
made use of in assessing the level of wealth. However, experience 
has shown that this Lagna can also be used for predicting happy 
events of life and acquisition of property etc. 


How to calculate Indu Lagna 
Seven planets excluding (Rahu/Ketu) have been allotted Kalas or 
units as follows : - 


Sun Moon Mars Mercury 
30 16 6 
Jupiter Venus Satur 

10 12 1 


a. Add Kalas allotted to lord of nine from Lagna as well as 
Moon. 
. Expunge multiples of 12 and get the remainder. 
c. Count from Moon (that is why it is called Indu) as many 
houses as the remainder is. 
d. This particular house so arrived at is known as Indu Lagna. 


42 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


Example Queen Elizabeth 21.4.1926 
a. Inthe horoscope of Queen Elizabeth, lord of 9 from Lagna 
is Mercury. It has been allotted 8 Kalas. The lord of nine 
from Moon is Jupiter who gets 10 Kalas. Add 8 and 10 
together, and you get 18 Kalas. 
. Divide 18 by 12 and you get a remainder of 6. 
c. Count 6 from Moon. This is Sagittarius, the 12th house 
which in this particular horoscope is Indu Lagna. 
Some of the astrologers use Jaimini system for computing Indu 
Lagna, and make use of Jaimini aspects. In this Kalas (rays) or 
units are the same. But the method of counting 9 is different in odd 


Queen Elizabeth 


Indu Lag 
Ket 
leg No 


up 


Elizabeth 
21 Apr 1926 


and even sign. If Lagna/Moon are in the odd signs counting is direct, 
if in even signs counting is indirect. Aspects used are Jaimini and 
not Parasari. In Jaimini system, movable Rasis (Aries, Cancer, Libra 
and Capricorn) aspect fixed Rasis (Taurus, Leo, Scorpio and 
Aquarius) excepting adjacent ones and vice versa. The dual Rasis 
(Gemini, Virgo, Sagittarius and Pisces) aspect one another. The 
aspect of Rasis means planets in it. 

The more planets aspect Indu Lagna, the better is the results for 
wealth. 

In horoscope of Queen Elizabeth, Lagna is even sign so the counting 
would start in the reverse direction from Lagna. Counting 9 in this 
way from Lagna, you get sign Taurus whose lord is Venus. Venus 


2nd House 43 


gets 12 Kalas. 

Moon is also in even sign counting would be again in reverse 
direction. Nine counting in this way brings us to Scorpio, whose 
lord is Mars. Mars gets 6 Kalas. Add 12 and 6 we get 18. Divide 
18 by 12 and you get a remainder of 6. Since Moon is in the even 
sign counting 6 in reverse direction brings us to Aquarius which is 
Indu Lagna as per Jaimini rule. Aquarius is fixed sign and has the 
aspect of Aries, which has exalted Sun, and Cancer having Moon. 
The sign Capricorn being adjacent to Aquarius does not aspect it. 
Two powerful luminaries aspect Indu Lagna. 


How to interpret Indu Lagna 


1. Combination for immense Riches 

1H Indu Lagna occupied or aspected by many benefic 
planets give lot of wealth in their Dashas. Even aspect 
of one benefic is good for this purpose. This is known 
as Koteshwar Yoga. Here the role of benefic planets 
has been emphasised. A benefic planet in Indu Lagna 
during its Dasha would give much wealth. A planet in its 
own house or exaltation sign makes one millionaire. 

ii) | Exalted malefic (Saturn, Sun and Mars) planets in Indu 
Lagna give immense riches towards the end — 
Koteshwar Yoga. Even malefics in this Lagna give 
wealth, though not so much. 

iii) Even one benefic planet in Indu Lagna aspected by 
benefic or malefic gives plenty of wealth. ° 

iv) Occupied by pure malefics it gives moderate wealth. 

v) AMll planets situated in it or aspecting this Lagna give 
wealth during their Dashas. : 

vi) Also planets situated in trines or quadrants (trikona and 
Kendras), from this Lagna give wealth during their 
Dasha -Antardasha. 

vii) Ithas been observed that Jupiter in transit, when it comes 
in Kendras from this Lagna gives property, wealth and 
happiness. 

viii) The planets situated in 3, 6,8 and 12 from this Lagna 
destroy wealth. 


44 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


ix) Indu Lagna aspected by debilitated malefics is not good 
for finances. Similarly, Indu Lagna neither aspected nor 
occupied by planets is not good. 

x) While making aj udgment of Indu Lagna see the condition 
of 2nd and 11ithhouse/lord from this Lagna. This will 
give a good idea of the level of prosperity. 

xi) Treating Indu Lagna as the first house form an estimate 
of Dhana Yogas, which are formed by the combinations 
of 2nd, Sth, 9fh, 11th and 10th houses/lords. 

xii) Use of Sarvashtak Varga may be made effectively in 
determining the strength of the relevant houses/lords. 


Examples 


Bill Gates 


In the horoscope of Bill Gates, the richest man in the world today, 
Lagna is Gemini. 

The 9th from this sign is Aquarius whose lord is Saturn, who is 
allotted 1 Kala. The 9th from Moon is Scorpio; its lord gets 6 units. 
6+1=7. The 7th from Moon is sign Virgo with 2 planets, Exalted 
Lagna and 4th lord Mercury, and lord of 11 and 6 Mars. The second 
from it is very powerful and has 3 planets, lord of 5 in 5, exalted 
Saturn and Sun having Neech Bhanga Raja Yoga. 11th from it is 
sign Cancer whose lord Moon is again aspecting Indu Lagna from 
a most powerful Kendra 10th house. 


oon | ew | te | 


Bill Gates 


Bil] Gates 


28 Oct. 1955 


2nd House 45 


K. K. Birla 


In the horoscope of K. K. Birla, Lagna is Libra. 9th from it is 
Gemini, whose lord Mercury has 8 Kalas. The 9fh from Moon is 
again Mercury having 8 Kalas. 8 + 8 = 16. Sixteen divided by 12 
leaves a remainder of 4. The 4th from Moon is Aries, which is Indu 
Lagna for our purpose. This Lagna is aspected by Lagna lord Venus 
from its Mooltrikona sign and Sun having Neech Bhanga Raja 
Yoga. Moon is in Kendra from this Lagna, and two planets, Yoga 
Karka Saturn and Mars are in Trikonas from this Indu Lagna. In 
the Sarvashtaka, all the important wealth giving houses, Lagna 2nd, 
4th, 9th, 1 Oth, and 11thare strong, having 30, 29, 30, 38, 27 and 35 
Bindus. 


K. K. Birla 


SOx 


Ven 
K.K. Birla 
aero 
Mukesh Ambani 


In this horoscope Lagna is Aries. The 9th lord is Jupiter having 10 
Kalas. 

The 9fh lord from Moon is Sun, with 30 Kalas. 10+ 30 = 
40. Dividing 40 by 12 we get a remainder of 4. The 4th house from 
Moon is Pisces, which is Indu Lagna. 2nd from this Lagna is very 
powerful house with exalted 5th lord Sun, 2nd lord Venus, 3rd and 
6th lord Mercury, with Ketu (treating Ketu as Mars in powerful 
Aries). Lord of Indu Lagna, Jupiter is in powerful Trikona aspected 
by Lagna lord Mars. 

In the Sarvashtakchakra, 10th and 11th houses are very 


46 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


powerful with 34 and 44 Bindus, eleven having more Bindus than 
ten and 12 having less Bindus than 11. This is a formidable 
combination for prosperity. 


‘Mukesh Ambani 


Indu Lap Sun | 
am fie] Mo | 
Ke 
Mukesh Ambani ® 


How to judge financial prosperity from Sarvashtak Varga 


1. If 9th, 10th, 11 th houses and Lagna, all have more than 30 
Bindus each, the financial prosperity is assured; Conversely 
these houses having less than 25 Bindus entail poverty. 


Mukesh Ambani 


NANTA 


2nd House 47 


the person enjoys all material happiness and is prosperous. 
Add the Bindus in Lagna, 2nd, 4th, 9th, 1 Oth, and 11 th from 
Lagna. If this total is more than 164, the person will be 
prosperous. 

The 12 houses are divided into 4 groups; 

Bandhu: 1, 5and9 

Sevaka: 2, 6 and 10 

Poshak: 3, 7 and 11 

Ghatika: 4, 8, and 12 

If Poshaka figures are higher than Ghataka figures, the 
person is wealthy. 

If Sevaka is higher than Bhandhu the person will always 
be subservient to others. 

If Lagna lord has exchanged places with the 4th lord or its 
lord has connections with this house, the person will be as 
wealthy as a king. 

All the seven planets if associated with 6 to 8 Bindus in 
their own Ashtak Varga bestow plenty of wealth to the 
individual. The results are accentuated if planets are exalted 
(with the exception of Saturn in Lagna), or are in own or 
Mooltrikona houses, and occupying Kendra or Trikona 
houses. 

Dispositor of Jupiter if well placed in Kendras or Trikonas 
and has more than 4 Bindus in Jupiter's Ashtak Varga 
bestow great riches. 

If Jupiter is having more than 4 Bindus and is associated 
with Venus in a Kendra or Trikona the native becomes 
highly prosperous. 

Venus with 5 Bindus in Aries or Scorpio and aspected by 
benefics give wealth, prosperity and vehicles. Position in 
Kendra or Trikona gives better results. 


Loss of Wealth or Yogas of Poverty 


1. 


Ifthe Sun is in deep debilitation i.e. is at 10° Libra, all good 
Yogas, according to Parasara are cancelled. 

Kemadruma Yoga, when there are no planets in 2nd or 12 
or in Kendra from Moon, this Yoga is generated. This is not 
a good Yoga for prosperity. 


48 


Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


Jupiter, the Karka for wealth and Sun are debilitated in the 
horoscope and lord of eight is afflicting weak Lagna lord. 
Lord of Lagna weak and interchange of lord of two and 
twelve. 

Second and eleven lords weak and influence of malefics 
on lord of eleven. 

Malefics in Kendras. 

Kendras unoccupied. 

Benefics combust or ill placed. 

‘Punya Saham’ and Moon ill disposed. Lord of 'Punya 
Saham’' in 12 having evil aspects on Moon. 

Mars and Saturn in 10, Moon having evil aspects. 


. Mars in 12 with malefics or having malefic aspect. 


Moon sandwiched by malefics and having malefic aspects. 
Moon and Saturn aspected by Mars. 

Many malefics in 12 causes loss of money in speculation. 
Lagna lord in 12 aspected by 'Marka.' 

Mercury in the second with evil planets. Moon here is not 
good - money is wasted on extravagant spending. 
Exchange of Lagna with 6th lord aspected by 'Marka’. 
Saturn in Lagna in Pap Kartari Yoga. 

Lord of 2 in 8 with malefics in debility and aspect of Sun 
person loses money through government fines. 

Evil planets in 2 while Lagna lord in 12 aspected or joined 
by 10th or I] lords - always in debt. 

Second lord in 2nd with evil planets. 


Bhavrath Ratnakar has given certain rules for poverty which it 
calls 'Nirdhan Yogas'. These are 


1. 


2. 
3. 
4. 


Lord of Lagna, 4th and 9th in 8th - one suffers poverty 
from birth. 

Exchange between lord of 2 and 12. 

2nd lord in 12 and 12 lord in Lagna aspected by ‘Marka’. 
The 5th lord in the 6th and 9th lord is in the 8th aspected by 
a 'Marka’ planet. 


Directions from which wealth would come: 
‘Income comes from the direction of lord of tenth house. Directions 
also are seen from the sign of 11th house or strongest planet 


2nd House 49 


influencing eleven, Sarvarth Chintamani. 
Wealth through Honest Means 
i) Benefic planets give wealth through honest and legal 
means. 
ii) Malefic planets give wealth through unfair means. 
ii) Mixed planets give mixed results. 
Lagna, 2nd and 11th lords 
i) If friendly, money is used on legitimate and honourable 
causes. 
ii) If 2nd and 11th lord are enemies of Lagna lord, wealth is 
squandered on wine and women. 
The Wealth Giving Yogas: 
To study Yogas in detail please see separate chapter on Yogas 
1. All Raj Yogas during their operational Dashas will give 
wealth. In this connection the best results are produced by 
the combination of Kendras and Trikona lords. 
Panch Mahapurush Yogas will give wealth in their Dashas. 
Lagan Adhi and Chandra Adhi Yogas. 
Vasumati Yoga. 
Lakshmi Yoga. 
Gaj Kesari Yoga. 
Mudrika Yoga (the presence of Moon, Jupiter and Venus 
in mutual Kendras). 
8. Sunapha, Anapha, Durudhara, Shubh Vasi and Shubh Vesi 
are wealth giving combinations. 


NAMB WD 


Chapter III 
Signification of Third House. 
Sahaj, Parikarma, Younger Co-born and Short Journeys 


Third house deals with 
i) Younger co-burn. 
ii) Courage. 
iti) Relatives. 
iv) Throat. 
v) Ears. 
vi) Father's death as it is 7th from ninth. 
vii) Sage Sattyacharya says that third house also deals with 
mental stability and firmness as also voice. 
According to Sarvarth Chintamani, it deals with 
viii) Medicine. 
ix) friends. 
x) education and 
xi) Short journeys. 

Uttarakalamitra of Kalidas assigns also war, wandering, 
one's near relations, taking clean food, hobby, descent from a good 
family. 

In Mundane astrology third house stands for postal services, 
communication, neighbours. 

According to Nadi principle too many cluster of planets in 
third may indicate remarriage of parents. 

Parasara calls third house, house of valour or efforts. If 
the third Bhava, its lord and Mars are well disposed with full strength 
the person achieves success due to his own efforts. 

In the case of saints who have to preach the Lord's 
message in the forms of Sangeet (music) and Bhajans 
(devotional songs) the third house of artistic abilities and 
throat assumes importance. 


|_| soe] | 


Swamd Prabhupad 
POLTAYG 


Caleultt 
(3:45 PM.) 


Signification of 3rd House 


In the horoscope of Swami Prabhupad the founder of Hare Krishna 
Hare Rama movement ISKCON, the two artistic planets, exalted 
Mercury who has lordship of 9th of Dharma is with Venus planet 
of art and music having Neech Bhanga Raj Yoga. They are 
aspecting third house of art from the 9fh house of Dharma. The 
lord of third house Jupiter is with Sun and Ketu / Rahu (This is 
classical combination of building temples in foreign land — Sun 
Jupiter is temples, Rahu is foreign land, Jupiter is also lord of 12— 
foreign). Venus and Mercury are forming a very powerful Dharm 
Karam Adhipati Yoga in the auspicious 9th. According to K.N. 
Rao Venus the fifth lord aspecting the third house with Moon in the 
fifth house shows inclination for devotional music. 
Judgement of Third House 

For judgement of third house we have to study 
I. The house 
2. Its lord 
3. Karka. (the Karka for 3rd house is Mars.) 
4. Dispositor of the third lord 

Third Lord in different House 
First House: Money through one’s own efforts. Rich, lean and 
thin, brave. This is also a combination for actors, musicians and 
dancers. 
Horoscope of NT Rama Rao, famous actor and politician: 


10th lord Moon in Lagna aspected by another planet of art Venus. 
Art and Third house: Angular disposition of 3rd lord gives artistic 
talent. If afflicted makes a person illiterate and sickly. 

Second House: Morally depraved, unscrupulous, mean, and 
unhappy. 


52 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


Third House 

Third house is the house of artistic ability. Its ownership by an artistic 
planet Moon, Mercury, Venus and Jupiter is good for development 
of art and music. It is particularly good for music as third house 
represents voice also. In the horoscope of Lata Mangeshkar third 
lord Moon is in the third house. Moon is strong with 5 Bindus in the 
Ashtak Varga. This horoscope has Saraswati Yoga. Venus is in the 
Kendra 4th house and another planet of art Mercury is exalted in 
the Sth with aspect of Jupiter. 


Lata Mangeshkar 


28.9. 1929 


Third lord in third makes one brave, gives high degree of 
perseverance. Makes a person of good character. It is good for 
brothers, wealth and happiness. Gives distinction in hobbies/sports. 
It also gives one dependable friends. 

Case of Shiraz Shaheed taken from page 85 of K.N. Rao’ book 
‘Ups and down in Career’. 


Shiraz Shahccd 
26.8.1960 


Jup 


Sat (R} i 


Signification of 3rd House 53 


She was the youngest Indian woman golf champion. 

Predictions given for this horoscope was that she will go to foreign 
country May 17, 1984 and win national championship. Both these 
predictions came true. Basis of the prediction were a strong third 
house. According to K.N. Rao, in astrology the will to fight and win 
are the gifts of malefics in the 3rd and 6th house which are the 
houses of heroism and sports, and bloody ‘killer instinct’. Third 
house with two malefics with Lagna lord and Venus Yogakarka, 
and aspects of Mars and Jupiter. These are "nerves of steel". Also 
from Pad Lagna third house is strong. (Pad Lagna is the house, 
which is as many houses away as Lagna lord is away from Lagna). 
The Lagna lord Mercury is three houses away in this horoscope. 
Count three houses away from position of Mercury and you have 
Pad Lagna or Arudha Lagna. Three houses away from Mercury or 
Leo are Libra, which has the Jaimini aspect of Sun, Venus, Mercury, 
Rahu, Ketu and Mars. (In Jaimini astrology fixed Rasis aspect 
movable ones except the adjacent ones). 


From Karkamsa (Sagittarius), {Karkamsais the Navamsa in which 
Atma Karka is placed. In this case Atma Karka is Venus (planet 
with highest longitude after discarding Rasis) who is in Sagittarius 
in Navamsa} Ketu in 3, Mars in 6 and extraordinary 9th house. 

If lord of third Moon aspects its own house (Lagna Taurus) one has 
wanderlust and travels much. 

Fourth House 

If it is strong it is good for wealth, education and peace of mind. 
If afflicted and Mars has no strength, looses land and lives in other's 
property. 

Fifth House 

Strong third lord: The relations with brothers will be good. Holds 
high position in government. 

Weak third lord: Not good for children, delay or denial in birth of 
children - relation with children not good. 

Sixth House 

Third lord in the sixth give Vipreet Raj Yoga which is Yoga for 
prosperity. 

Strong third lord; Brothers will be successful, may be either doctor 


54 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


or army officers. Third lord with the 6th lord in 6th is good for 
sports and athletics. 


Weak third lord: Person suffers from diseases and is bothered by 
enemies. Relations with maternal uncle are not good. 

Seventh House 

Strong Third Lord: One of the brothers may live abroad and do 
well. 


Weak Lord; not morally strong unless Lagna lord and 9th lord are 
strong. Have immoral relations with other women. Displeasure of 
government and may be punished. 


Eighth House 

Strong third lord: Good for research and development of art. 
Weak Lord; Bad for health - serious and dangerous disease. May 
be involved in criminal case - bad for married life. 

Ninth House 

Strong: May get help from brothers, good for brothers. Better luck 
after marriage. 

Weak third Lord: Relations with father strained - may undertake 
long journeys. 

Tenth House 


Strong third lord: Does well in life with his own effort. Brothers 
well placed and have good relations with native. 


According to Satyachari 3rd lord in 10 in Mercury or Venus signs 
makes one singer, actor, dancer or fond of instrumental music. 
Weak third Lord: Wife cruel hearted and unfaithful. 

Eleventh House : 

Strong third lord: Becomes rich with his own effort and leads a 
prosperous life. 

Weak third Lord: Depraved and serves others. 

Twelfth House 

Strong third lord: Becomes rich through wife. 


Weak third Lord; Heavy loss of money through brothers, father 
and cruel hearted. 


Signification of 3rd House 55 


Planets in the 3rd House 
Sun 
According to Chamatkar Chintamni person with the Sun in the third 
is healthy, wealthy and wise. He is famous, modest, kind and a 
king. The Sun in the masculine signs makes the native quiet, 
thoughtful, intelligent, social, active in educational and public works, 
fighting municipal elections, president, vice president or director of 
big companies. 
The Sun in Gemini, Libra or Sagittarius makes the native an author, 
publisher, professor or lawyer. He is fond of home and children and 
is of active mind. In feminine signs it gives brothers and sisters. 
Person has wealth, peace of mind and conveyances. It is good for 
progeny. Person is brave and charitable. According to Dr. Raman 
the best place for Sun in the horoscope is third house. 
If there are more benefic points in Ashtak Varga in third house, this 
may indicate talent for music if other combinations are there. 
Exchange between 3 and 5, especially Mars and Mercury, show 
fight to finish. 
Moon 
Strong Moon: Love of knowledge, success in intellectual pursuits, 
changeable disposition - looks after brothers if exalted, bold cheerful, 
fond of education, clothes and food. In sign of benefic carefree 
life-is wealthy. Patient kind husband of God-fearing wife, fond of 
travel, short journey, scriptures, good for prosperity of brothers. 
Moon in the third makes one fickle minded according to Bhavarth 
Ratnakar. ; 
Discord in the family and liaison with beautiful women. Suffers 
from respiratory infections, cruel, miser, dull and fearless. In the 
sign of malefic planets chatters too much, harms his brothers. Bilious, 
cannot relish food, unlucky. Accidents in journey, sisters become 
widow are other results. 
Mars 
Is either eldest or youngest in brothers. In the third, in most of the 
cases denies younger brother especially ifit is with more than five 
Bindus in the horoscope. Example see horoscope of Pt. JL Nehru. 
His Mars in the 3rd has six Bindus but he did not have a younger 
brother. 
Mars in the third gives courage, drive, initiative to overcome all 


56 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


opposition. Such Mars, however, will harm the prospect of younger 
co-born. However, Mars in third with third lord will not kill younger 
co-borns. 

In the third it also gives strength of arms, capacity to acquire wealth 
by hard labour, observe religious rites and practice asceticism. 
Person is handsome, has good health, gets royal favour, is wise, 
brave and industrious. It makes him lean. 

If exalted makes one fortunate and amorous. In debilitation or in 
enemy's sign he suffers from want inspite of plenty. Is discontented, 
friendless and without a family. 

If afflicted, Mars develops suicidal tendencies. He suffers from 
bone fracture, blood poisoning. If associated with Rahu deserts his 
wife, mates with other women, takes to prostitution, and does fraud 
with brothers. Brother dies. 

Exalted, in Aries or in Scorpio, is sober and gallant and bold in war. 
If in a friendly sign with malefic native is patient. 

Mars in Scorpio gives little wealth as it boosts up poverty related to 
8th house. As this house is 8th from 8th it represents longevity. 
Afflicted with Mercury it cuts short his life. 

It also represents danger from accidents through travel. Trouble 
from neighbours. 

Mercury 

If this Mercury is strong has good education, sharp memory, writing, 
printing or publishing is gainful. Fond of learning, cheerful, alert and 
watchful. Various learning in sciences and literature. Love of writing 
and speaking. With good aspects he is jolly, imaginative, poetical 
and mystical. Fond of advance learning, rational and critical. Scientific 
and mathematical ability. 

Afflicted Mercury 

Meek thoughtless, miserable, gloomy and moody. Worries and frets, 
foolish involves in unprofitable pursuits, hasty, tricky and dishonest. 
Mental affliction, eccentric or insane. Trouble through agreements. 
Journeys for business, information and pleasure. 

Jupiter 

If Jupiter is in its own or friendly sign or exalted native is wealthy. 
He is poor and miser in other signs. Good for profession of teachers 
or lectures. 

Has elder brother but no elder sister. 

Thankless friend, ungrateful, untrustworthy, little gains. miser and 


Signification of 3rd House 57 


discredited. He is stingy, debauchee, poor, crafty, no attachment 
with wife and children, loss of appetite, infirm and wicked. 
Melancholy, lean and lazy. Voyaging and travelling. 

Strong Jupiter 

Success in everything house stands for. 1s hopeful, cultured, jovial, 
kind and considerate, religious and philosophical in every kind of 
transaction, friendly, sincere and polite in writing or dialogue. Gain 
through education, literature, publication, travelling kinsmen and 
friends. Aspect of Sun, Moon or Mercury augments it although 
Jupiter alone is good for mental faculties. 

Social success if in fiery signs. In earthy signs it gains through 
business commerce and speculation. In airy signs mental pursuits. 
In watery signs voyages and sea journey. 

Venus: Venus in the 3rd is unfavourable for marriage. Delays, 
strife, more than one marriage, marriage in different caste, 
separation are indicated. If afflicted debauchee. Many sisters. Loss 
of business, absence of taste. 

Highly developed aesthetic sense and taste. Fond of fine arts, 
literature and music. Mature, optimistic and peaceful mind. Moon 
and Mercury incline him to be pure and free from vice. Gain through 
travel and journey taken for pleasure. Surrounded by relatives and 
friends. 

Saturn - Immediate younger to him is a sister. 

Saturn if strong denotes responsibility, tact, diplomacy, power to 
contemplate, concentration, interest in philosophy, studies and 
writing. Gain to brothers if exalted or in its own house. 

Dark complexioned, loss to brothers, mental affliction. Afflicted by 
malefics discord between brothers. Never satisfied, unkind and 
wicked, many obstacles and difficulties before any success. Lazy 
and melancholy. Averse to work and religion. 

Rahu: Eldest or youngest in the family or in the same sex. 

He is strong as a lion, brave, courageous, fortunate and wealthy. 
Has many friends, travel. Rahu is favourable in its exaltation or in 
its own house. Rahu in Leo indicates imposing personality. 

Good fortune and success through good dealings with neighbours, 
journeys, writing or publishing. 

Ketu 

Own or exalted grants much happiness - rich, sensual and sharp. 
Destroys his enemies, Ketu in its own or exaltation sign grants much 


58 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


happiness. Skilled, long living, famous, fortunate partner and tasty 
food. 

Week Ketu denies happiness, fear and loss through friends. 
Adulterous with other women. Debilitated Ketu indicates mental 
anxiety, trouble with brethren and neighbours, unprofitable journey. 
Karka 

Karka for younger brothers and third house is Mars: If Mars is 
debilitated in birth or Navamsa or Mars is in malefic Shashtyamsa 
or Mars is conjoined with Malefics it is not good for birth of younger 
sister/brother. 

According to Sarvarth Chintamani Karka Mars with malefic planets 
gives birth to stillborn brother/sister. This prediction should not be 
given if benefic aspects are there. 

Yogas for Early Death of brothers/sisters 

1. Third house in 'Papkartari’ Yoga. 

2. Third lord debilitated in Navamsa, and no benefic aspect on 3rd 
house/lord. 

3. Navamsa lord of 3rd lord, combust, in 8th house and debilitated. 
4. Third lord in 3rd, aspected by malefics and in malefic 
Shashtyamsa. 

5. Third lord or Karka Mars in any Dusthan afflicted by malefics is 
not good for longevity even when exalted. 

Results of Dasha of Third Lord 

Sarvarth Chintamani 

If third lord is malefic conjoined/associated with malefic, in main 
period of malefic lord and in sub period of malefic planet: trouble 
from fire, thieves and government, and inertia of mind, loss of brothers 
and rift with them. 

If third lord is well placed, rise in life is high. Government recognition. 
Achievement in artistic field, sports etc. 

Birth of Brothers 

As the third house is concerned primarily with the birth of younger 
co-born, let us concentrate on the combinations that give rise to the 
birth and denial of younger co-born. 

The Yogas that give birth to brothers 

1. Benefic planets in third house aspected by benefic planets, and 
lord of three in strength. 

2. Lord of third house and Mars with benefic planets, aspected by 
benefics. 

3. Lord of third house and Mars in Kendras or Trikonas, in their 


Significationofrd House 59 


sign of exaltation, in friendly sign and own Vargas, give many 
brothers. 


4. Mars in 3rd house with benefics. 

5. Third lord / third house well placed or with benefic. By well 
placed we mean in good houses and with benefics. 

Brothers do well in life, if lord of three, third house and 
Karka Mars are with benefics and are strong. 

Yogas that deny younger brother 

1. Lord of 3rd house and significator Mars in 8th house aspected 
by malefics. 

2. Lord of 3rd house and significator Mars in Navamsa of their 
sign of debilitation and in company of malefics and in malefic 
Shastitamsa (1/60). Brothers are born but are short lived. 

3. Third house located in between malefic planets, aspected by 
malefics or associated with debilitated planets, without benefic 
aspects. 

4. Malefic planets in third or 3rd house aspected by malefics - 3rd 
lord in 'Papkartari’ Yoga. 

5. 3rd house aspected by malefics, lord of three in three in malefic 
Shashtiamsa. 

6. Navamsa lord of third lord (lord of Rasi in which 3rd lord in 
Navamsa is placed), in debilitation, eclipsed or in inimical house. 
7. Lord of three and Mars in 6, 8, or 12, aspected by malefics, 
destruction of brothers even when 3rd lord is exalted 

8. 3rdhouse, 3rd lord, Mars with malefics. When malefic influence 
is not severe, birth of brothers takes place after a long time. 
According to Ashtak Varga system Mars Placed in 3, 6, 8, 11 and 
12 and associated with 6 and more Bindus deny brothers. This 
prediction should not be given if the aspect of benefics is there. 
Number of Brothers 

1. According to Sarvarth Chintamani, the number of brothers 
should be determined by the sign and Navamsa in third house it 
may also be determined from the sign of the third house and location 
of third lord. Sometimes results can be obtained by examination of 
the strongest planet associated with 3rd house /third lord. 

2. Still better results are obtained by examination of third house / 
third lord in drekkan. 

3. The number of brothers can be obtained by examining Navamsas 


60 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


moved by third lord or Mars. 

4. Strongest of Mars or 3rd lord gives better results. 

Number of Brothers according to Ashtak Varga 

Find the number of Bindus in the third house from Mars in the 
Ashtak Varga of Mars before reduction. Omit the number of Bindus 
contributed by inimical and debilitated planets. The remaining figures 
will represent number of brothers/sisters. The male represents 
brothers while female planets will indicate sisters. 


According to some authorities the number of brothers is equal to 
number of Bindus in third from Mars and those associated with 
third lord. 


Sex of Brothers 


1. If lord of third house and Mars are located in Navamsa of an odd 
sign and aspected by male planets (Sun, Mars and Jupiter), a male 
co-born is born. 


2. If the 3rd house, its lord and Mars are located in Navamsa of 
even signs, sisters are born. 

Relation with the Brothers 

If Lagna lord is friend of third lord, the native is friendly to the 
brother, otherwise not. 

Bravery 

Third lord exalted, strong in Kendra, Trikona, aspected by benefics, 
in Vaisheshik Amsa, one is patient, brave and learned. 

2. Lord of three in the Navamsa of a benefic planet and is with a 
benefic planet makes a person brave. 

3. Significator of the 3rd house in benefic signs gives bravery. 

4. Lord of three in Simhasan, Parvata, Gopur or Mridu Amsas in 
association or aspect of benefic planets. 


Period of Prosperity for Brothers according to Ashtak Varga: 


Multiply the Shodhyapinda of Mars with the figure in 3rd from it 
and divide the product by 12. The resultant figure will denote a Rasi 
counted from Aries, the transit of Jupiter over which will prove 
beneficial to brothers. 


It is difficult to say which brother will have the prosperity. This can 
only be known through the relevant horoscopes. 


Signification of 3rd House 61 


Sickness or Death of Brothers according to Ashtak Varga 
Multiply the Shodhya Pinda of Mars with figures in the third from 
Mars (before reduction). Divide the product by 27. The remainder 
will give the Nakshatra counted from Ashvini (sometimes from the 
position where Saturn is located in the horoscope) the transit of 
Saturn over this Nakshatra or its trines will prove troublesome to 
brother. 

2. Multiply the Shodhyapinda of Mars with figures in 7th from Jupiter 
or 7th from Sun and divide the product by 27. The remainder will 
give a Nakshatra (counted from Aries) or its trines, the transit of 
Jupiter or Sun over which is not good for brothers. 

If the division is made by 12, it gives a Rasi the transit of Jupiter and 
Sun over which is not good for brothers. 

Mental Makeup 

If Lord of three is 

With Sun - makes one brave. 

With Moon -has mental patience. 

With Mars - dark colour, fool and full of wrath. 

With Mercury - Satvik intellect. 

Jupiter - Brave with good understanding. 

With Venus - given to sex. 

With Saturn - fool. 

With Rahu/Ketu or Mandi brave outwardly. 

Sarvarth Chintamani 

Sources of Danger 

1. Jupiter and 3rd lord in Lagna - danger from animals. If in watery 
sign from water. 

2. With Rahu in Lagna, also with sign dispositor of Rahu - bitten by 
serpent. 

Third lord with Mercury disease in throat. 

A debilitated planet in 3rd house or in enemy's house eclipsed- 
serpent bite. This could also mean influence of drugs. 

Moon and Venus in 3rd 

Aspected by benefics - one has food in comfort, in expensive utensils. 
This is also a combination for artistic talent. 


Chapter TV 


Fourth House 
Sukha, Mother and Landed Property 
The 4th house represents: 


1. Mother. 

2. Buildings, landed and ancestral property. 

3. Education. 

4. Vehicles. 

5. General Happiness - Peace of Mind 'Sukhisthan’. 

6. Friends; Bad association if 4fh house or 4th lord is in 


‘Papkartari Yoga’. If Jupiter is in the 4th and 4th lord 
joins good planets, person will have good friends. 
7. Chest, respiratory system. 
8. _ Relatives. 
9. Comfort. 
10. Hidden treasures and clothes. 
11. Early life and environments. 
Fourth is like the 10th a very important house. It is the pillar on 
which is standing the peace and happiness of life, education and 
character. It shows early childhood and a happy married life. 
12. "4fh house is also house of parliamentary career". 
KN Rao, "Ups and Downs in Career" 
Affliction to 4th house makes one angry, short tempered, hard hearted 
or sensual. 
General Assessment of the House 
1. Bhava or the House 
2. Lord of the house 
3. Karka or significator 
4. Planets in the house or aspecting the House. 
Fourth Lord in Various Houses 
1st House 
If lord of 4th is in Lagna one gets happiness of all kinds. He will get 
property, conveyances, wealth and happiness from mother. 
Happiness will be proportionate to the strength of the 4th lord. He 
will also be intelligent and well educated. 
According to Bhava Kutuhalam if the fourth lord together with first 
lord is situated in the fourth house. the person gets a very large 


4th House 63 


house. 

If the 4fh lord is strong birth is in rich family, if of average strength 
birth will be in middling family. Weak 4th lord shows birth is in poor 
family or early childhood is disturbed. 

2nd House 

He is wealthy and derives much happiness from his relatives and 
mother. 

If lord is afflicted opposite results will be there. 

3rd House 

If the lord is strong he has wealth by self effort and is a man of 
character, But 3rd is 12th from 4fh and hence placement of 4th lord 
here is not good. Person has a worried mind, his business is not 
steady. He is discontented and has no saving. 

4th House 

This is a good position for 4th lord to be. He gets all types of 
happiness. He is intelligent, fortunate, clever, educated and has a 
good character. He will be happy and has a prestigious life and gets 
happiness from mother, property and conveyances. He will be 
successful as an agriculturist. 

According to Phala Deepika if lord of four is in four and is not 
combust or debilitated one lives like a king and has all types of 
wealth and luxuries. If lord of four is in four with Saturn and Rahu 
one lives in old and dilipidated house. 

5th House 

This again is a good combination of Kendra and Trikona. Person is 
highly educated, has a sharp mind. He is rich with houses and 
property. Is long lived and children are also happy with good 
inheritance. 

The exchange between 4fh and 5th lord is major Raj Yoga which 
gives political fame, high position, money, properties and grace of 
rulers. 

6th House 

Is not a good position. There is dispute and litigation of the property. 
Condition of mother is not good. There could be vehicular accident. 
Education suffers and mind is unhappy. He is short tempered and 
quarrelsome. 

According to Bhava Kutuhalam if Lagna and the fourth lord are in 
the six one goes to court to settle disputes of property. 


64 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


According to Phala Deepika if lord of fourth house is in Dusthana, 
6, 8, or 12 or associated with the Sun and Mars or Sun and Mars 
are in the 4th house, the house of the native gets bumt. Please note 
Sun and Mars are both fiery planets. 

7th House 

Person is charming and handsome. Early marriage and property 
and wealth from wife. Success in business. 

8th House 

Is not a good position. There is no happiness from mother and 
relatives.’ Financial condition is moderate, but may get hidden 
treasure. Properties are under litigation and there is no peace of 
mind. If Lagna lord and fourth lord are in the eighth there could be 
injuries to the body because of dispute of property. 

9th House 

It is again combination of Kendra and Trikona and hence constitutes 
Raj Yoga, which is good for wealth, happiness and prosperity. One 
is benefitted from father. The lord of the four and nine in Kendras 
aspected by Jupiter give favour from royalty. 

10th House 

Is auspicious. From this position lord of four aspects its own house. 
It is good for wealth, mother and prosperity. There is high position 
in government. Mother is long lived and there is respect and status 
in society. In business he will earn much money. 

Fourth lord in tenth afflicted by Sun property will be lost through 
wrath of king. If 4fh lord is in tenth with Saturn and Moon one gets 
most pleasing building according to Jatak Tattwa. 

11th House 

Eleventh is 8th to the 4th and unless planet is strongly placed it is 
not a good position. He will not be success in business. Will be 
pessimist, but he will get good friends. 

12th House 

Not a good position. Unhappy, unhealthy and unsuccessful. He will 
loose money in business. No happiness from mother and parents. 
According to Jatak Parijat house is dilipidated if 4th lord is in 12. 
This also means residence abroad. 


Planets in 4th House 

Sun 

Roaming about, mind disturbed, worried, occult and philosophical. 
There are obstacle in life if Sun and Mars aspect fourth house. If 
Mars and Sun are in depression or in enemy house there is no 


4th House 65 


likelihood of having a house. 


Moon 

Sensual pleasures if there is no aspect of Jupiter. Gives houses, 
happiness from rulers, makes one leader. Travel to foreign country 
especially if Moon is in movable sign. 

Afflicted Moon gives separation from mother. 


Mars 

With Rahu and Ketu there is no peace of mind, quarrels with mother, 
relatives, friends. Owns houses but mind is not happy. 

Affliction to Mars loss through theft, litigation, deception and tragic 
development, quarrels, strife and unhappiness. 


Mercury 

Travel to other countries, witty, good education, conveyance, music 
and fine arts. 

Jupiter 

Learned, happy, favour of ruling classes, religiously inclined 
fortunate. Respected and peaceful domestic life. 

Jupiter in four means that person had a good childhood and happy 
surroundings. 

"Acquires cattle if Jupiter is in the 4 with lord of four. According to 
Bhavarth Ratnakar Jupiter in the 4th aspects 10th and gives 
Teerathayatra, by aspecting 8th it removes the chances of scandal, 
and by aspecting 12th (Mokshastan), it ensures salvation. 


Venus 
Gives taste for music, friends, houses, art, domestic peace and 
happiness. This combination is great asset for artists. _ 


Saturn 

Unless lord of Lagna is strong this position is not good for mother. It 
causes unhappiness and leads to a secluded life. 

Affliction by Mars gives sudden downfall and insanity. Rahu/Ketu 
- Mars cause tragedy and violence. 

Rahu 

Foolish, few friends, fraud and deception. 

In 4th interferes with early education. In female horoscope 
unhappiness in married life. Carnal desires are aroused. 


Ketu 
Foreign connection, deprived of mother, properties, happiness, 


66 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


reversal in fortunes. 
Ketu-Saturm affliction causes mental disorder, insanity. 


According to Jatak Parijat if planets in four are depressed or eclipsed 
person will slip into well or reservoir. Malefics in the four cause 
misfortune. 


Yogas for Houses and Landed Property 


Lord of 2nd, 4fh and 12 in Kendras and Trikonas ensure smoothness 
in affairs relating to property and houses. 


4th lord in Lagna or 7th give one a house without difficulty. 
Parivartan between lords of 4 and 10 gives lands. If planets strong 
one even gets kingdom. 

Parivartan between 4 and 6, one gets land from enemies by right. 
Jupiter weak and evil planets in 4th one is unhappy with wealth. 
Loss of Property 

Lord of four in 8th afflicted or debilitated deprives a person of land 
and houses. 

Loss of lands by royal and government order if lord of 4th is Neecha 
debilitated with Sun. 

Drowning 

Lord of Lagna in 4 in watery sign afflicted. 

4th House in the Horoscope 

It represents in childhood, mother home, property and education 
portrays the type of upbringing and comfortable living. A good 4th 
house and 4th lord become 'sine quanon’ for a prosperous childhood. 
In adulthood, a happy married life is known from the conditions of 
4th/7th house and their lords. A classical example of timing and 
quality of married life is given by K. N. Rao in his book Astrology 
Destiny and the wheel of Time’. 


When asked about the prospects of the marriage of the girl about 
whom the parents had got disillusioned and were almost reconciled 
to the fact that this girl would never be married as she was 


i. getting old and fat. 
ii. had no educational qualification. 


iii. and parents had hardly any money to offer as an incentive 
for a handsome dowry. 


4th House 67 


Rao replied that the girl would be married very soon and with a 
man having lot of property. 
Please see the following horoscope. 


This girl was passing through Mahadasha of Moon, Vargottam and 
the Antar Dasha of Mars, Lord of Lagna aspecting 10th house. 
Moon has also the aspect of 5th lord Sun and 10th and 11th lord 
Saturn. With strong Gaj Kesari Yoga and a strong 4th house/4th 
lord she was bound to find happiness and property, which could 
only be found in her husband's home. As the luck would have it, a 
rich landlord of U. P. was looking for a match for his middle-aged 
son who had dislike for fashionable girls and wanted a plain looking 
and not too educated a girl to be his wife. So the destiny brought 
them together and catapulted this girl into a rich family with all the 
paraphernalia of wealth and property. Such is the power of a strong 
Vargottam 4th lord. 


Ownership of Palatial Houses 

Some people are born very lucky, ‘with a silver spoon in the 
mouth’, as they say, and bring also a great deal of good luck to 
their parents. The nature is kind to them and they live all their life in 
luxury and idyllic surroundings, with palatial houses and related 
paraphernalia. See the horoscope of Pundit Jawahar Lal Nehru. 
K.N. Rao, in his book The Nehru Dynasty’ has dilated on this 
subject and says that while Nehru, a pampered child was surrounded 
by luxury, with a private swimming pool and tennis court as yet 
he was born when his father was not so rich and used to live in 
locality of poor people, Rao gives astrological’ reasons for Nehru 
subsequently living in luxuries and grandiose building by stating that 


68 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


‘with Mercury and Venus in Libra in the 4th house, he was destined 
to live in a luxurious house. In Mercury-Venus period of Nehru, his 
father moved to a better locality and in Mercury-Rahu (1897-1900) 
the family shifted into famous Anand Bhawan. Mercury in the 4th 
house is well understood for this change, the 12thin the 4th being 
the combination for change of residence. Why the Rahu sub period 
had to be significant can be understood if it is seen that Rahu in the 
12th house is in the 4th from 9th. The 9th house is the father and 
4th from 9fh house with Rahu in it aspected by Jupiter had to give 
to Nehru's father a grand mansion, Anand Bhawan. 


It may also be noted that 4th house has 30 benefic points in 
Ashtak Varga and its lord Venus is extremely strong in its 
Moolatrikone sign with 6 points. Mars, the Karka for property is 
again strong with 6 points. However, it is in the enemy house. This 
may be the reason that unlike modern politicians he did not go on 
amassing huge landed assets. 

From Jaimini angle the 4th from Karkamsa, Lagna, Dhanu, 
has the aspect of Mars, strong Jupiter and exalted Rahu - again a 
good combination for owning palatial houses. 

Maharishi Parasara in Brihat Parasara Hora Shastra has laid 
emphasis on the strength of the 4th house/4th lord and its placement 
in Kendra and Trikona. Sarvarth Chintamani has in addition linked 
9th house and position of a benefic in 3rd house also. Combination 
with 10th lord provides multistoried buildings. It has also laid emphasis 
on the Kendra position of lord of Navamsa occupied by 4fh lord. 

Position of Mars, Karka for property and houses is also very 
important. 

According to Sanketa Nidhi if Mercury is in the 4th, house 
would be artistic, with Moon new and Jupiter gives strong and durable 
houses. Sun and Ketu flimsy, Saturn and Rahu old, Venus lovely 
and Mars gives a building prone to fire. 

Jatak Tatwa says that 

1. Moon and Venus in 4th house give multistoried house. 
Planets in exaltation in 4fh house - same results as above. 
Ketu and Mars - brick houses. 
Jupiter - a house of timber. 
Sun - a hut of grass. . 
Lord of 9 in Kendra, 4th lord in his own, exaltation or 
friendly Rasi or exalted planet in 4 give beautiful houses. 


AMRwWN 


4th House 69 


7. Benefic in 3rd, 4th lord and lord of Navamsa of 4th lord- 
strong multiple storied house with compound. 

8. 4th lord and 1 Oth with Moon and Saturn give a most pleasing 
house. 

9. Lagna lord and 4th in 4th - gain of house in most unexpected 
manner. 

10. 4th lord in 10th and 10th lord in 4th with Mars - strong 
gives much property. 

11. Lords of 4th and 10th strong and friendly - much landed 
property. 

12. 4th lord strong in own house or in 3, 6, 10, 11 (Upchhaya 
houses) aspected by benefics, gain of much property. 

The classical Yogas for acquiring houses are 

1. Vichitra Saudha Prakra Yoga 

Lord of 4fh and 10th together with Saturn and Mars-the person 
acquires innumerable mansions. This four planet combination is 
rather rare. ait 

2. Uttam Griha Yoga - 

Lord of 4 should join benefics in Kendra or Trikona. If Lagna lord is 
not strong see from the Moon. 

Jaimini Astrology and Houses 

1. If4th from Karkamsa Langa is associated with Moon and 
Venus one lives in palatial house. If there is Sun in the 4th 
from Karkamsa, house is made of grass. Mercury in such 
a condition gives commercial building. Aspect of Mercury 
means good furnishing also. With Saturn and Rahu there is 
house of stones, rocks etc. Mars or Ketu again gives house 
of stones. In case there is Jupiter in 4th from Karkamsa 
the house is made of wood. 

2. All Raj Yogas, Mahapursh Yogas and Dhana Yogas formed 
with Moon - Sunapha, Anapha, Gaj kesari, Chander Mangal 
and Adhi Yogas are important. 

3. Role of Vargottam Lagna and Vargottam planets in the 
horoscope together with exalted planets, in Mooltrikona signs 
etc. add luster to the horoscope. 

4. Role of 4fh house/lord and Karkas for property Mars and 
Jupiter in Kendra Trikona invariably provides one with a 
house. Venus the great benefic has special role to play. 


70 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


Deep Scrutiny 

1. Check the placement of Jupiter, Venus and Mars and ensure 
that they are placedin a good place, i.e. in Kendras, or Trikonas. 
Houses are made in the Mahadasha of Jupiter, Venus or Mars. 
For timings in transit Jupiter should be in 1, 4,8 or 12 houses. 


Happiness of having a house should be judged from 4, 8, and 11 
houses. Good Nakshatras promise happiness. 


fe GN 


5. Jupiter has a major role to play. If it is exalted, in Mooltrikona or 
own house, in 1, 4, 8 or 10, promise of having a house of one's 
own - a good house - becomes certain. 

6. Though Jupiter is a significator for a, house, if such a Jupiter is 
associated with Rahu, Saturn, Jupiterian promise of a house is 
fulfilled, but an old and dilipidated house is the result. 

7. If Jupiter and Venus together establish relationship with 1, 4, 8, 
10 houses, promise of a good house is assured. 

8. Saturn and Sun in 4th house, mean worries for house most of 
one's life. 

9. Saturn and Sun combined in the 4th, can also mean good house 
as a tenant. 

10. Moon in the 4, farm or farm house. 

11. Venus in 4, house with a garden. 

12. Exalted Saturn-good or many houses. 

13. Rahu in 4, or own Nakshatra person is deprived of house. 

14. Ketu in 4 buy and sell farms and make profit. 

For living house should be in the East, hospital in the West, and 

garden and place of entertainment in South. 

Mr. Rao who is a pioneer in modern researches in Astrology 
has laid great emphasis on examination of Chathurthamsa as if it 
were the main chart. This has given excellent results. In this Lagna, 
Lagna lord, 4th house, 4th lord and placement of Mars, Jupiter and 
Venus are to be seen. 

Case Study I 


Owner of this horoscope has property worth hundreds of crores. 


4th House 71 


Horoscope 


Navamsa 


| Let us see what is happening to the 4th house. 


72 


Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


4th lord Moon is exalted in the house of wealth and is also 
Vargottam which is being aspected by 9th lord Jupiter from 
the 10th house. Jupiter is having Neech Bhanga Raj Yoga 
and incidentally is with 2nd lord Venus. So, there is connection 
between property, wealth Karmasthan and father. (9th 
house). 

Karka Mars is aspecting 4fh house from the 9fh house 
Again a connection with father's property. 

Saturn lord of gains is aspecting its own 10th house from 
8th house of inheritance. And Sun lord of 5th is aspecting 
its own house from house of gains. Sun is also with lord of 
courage Mercury. Mercury is also 6th lord so he will have 
fierce opposition in the building of projects. 

He reached the climax of his career as a builder when 
Jupiter entered Capricorn (Makar) from where it aspects 
the 4th house. Saturn at this time was aspecting exalted 
4th lord Moon completing the picture. 

From Karkamsa Lagna, 4th house is Virgo whose lord is in 
the house of gains with 5th lord aspecting it's own house. 
This means that his sons are actively involved in his 
construction activities. 

Karkamsa Lagna as well as 4th from it is being aspected 
by Mars from the 9th house. Mars is Karka of property as 
well as Lagna lord. As also lord of 8th it shows again 
inherited property. 

It is interesting to note that fabulous amount of wealth was 
generated during the Mahadasha of Mercury, lord of guts 
in the house of gains with the 5th lord. In Chara Dasha it 
was the main Dasha of Vrishbha with exalted 4th lord Moon 
aspected by most powerful Raj Yoga of Atma and Amatya 
Karka. It was because of this Yoga that he has hundreds 
of persons employed under him. 

During Mercury-Ketu and Mercury-Venus he made 
maximum amount of money. The 4th house of 
Chathurthamsa was aspected by both Ketu and Venus. 


Case Study II - What type of property, status and wealth the native 
of this horoscope has would be obvious by a mere glance at the 


chart. 


4th House 73 


Ketu 
Sat, AMK 


4th house: Apply the principle of Sarvarth Chintamani 


1) 
ii) 
iil) 


iv) 


3rd house has a benefic. 

4th lord is Moon strong in Gaj Kesari Yoga. 

The dispositor of 4th lord Moon, Mercury is in the 11 
with another benefic Venus, lord of wealth. 

There is connection of 3rd, 4th and 11th, which is again 
fortified by aspect of exalted Mars from the 10th who 
again has its dispositor Saturn in the 8th aspecting its 
own 10th house. Incidentally 10th lord is also lord of 11 
in 8fh (house of inheritance), and is in turn aspected by 
Jupiter lord of house of fortune and father. 


Navas 


74 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


Chathur 
Thamisa 


v) The Karka of property Mars is exalted with Dig Bala 
and is aspecting 4th house. 

vi) lord of wealth Venus is in the house of gains aspecting 
5th house whose lord Sun is in the 12th with lord of 
fortune and father. Incidentally strong Jupiter and Sun 
combination has led to his making a beautiful temple. 

vii) Rahu in the house of wealth is exalted and has the aspect 
of 10th and 11th lord. Exalted Rahu always generates 
great deal of money like 'Kubera’. 

Now let us confirm this from Jaimini angle 

1. AK, Mars is exalted, is in a Kendra and has the aspect 
of AMK Saturn, assuring high status and dignity. It was 
in the chara Dasha of Aries when AK was in the 10th 
exalted with aspect of Amatya Karka that he got a very 
high position in the government of India. 

2. Karkamsa Lagna is Virgo. The 4th from it has the aspect 
of three planets, lord of 5th, lord of 4th and Jupiter who 
is MK as also 9th lord. 

3.  Arudha Lagna is Tula, and the 11th from it is Simha has 
again the aspect of an exalted planet Mars who is also 
AK, ensuring fabulous money. 

Chathurthamsa 

I. In Chathurthamsa Karka of property Mars is aspecting 
4th house, which has also the aspect of Jupiter 

2. Yoga Karka 4fh and 5fh lord Saturn is in the house of 
gain with the Lagna lord and lord of 9 - the inference is 
obvious. 

Jaimini Angle. 

Moon is the Atmakarka, Karkamsa Lagna is Cancer, the 4th from 
it is Tula which does not have aspect of any planet (Jaimini's 
aspect). Ashtak Varga. 


4th House 75 


In Ashtak Varga the 12thhouse has 32 benefic points as against 27 
in 11th, showing more expenditure and less income. 12th has also 
more Bindus than Lagna which has only 27 points. 
Use of Karkas 
Fourth house represents many things like property, mother, vehicles 
etc. For studying mother one should see the fourth house, its lord 
and Karka Moon as also 4fh from Moon, for property fourth house/ 
lord and Mars, for vehicles fourth house/lord and Venus. 
Mother: Mother has a great importance in the upbringing of 
children. There is a Jewish saying: "God could not be every where, 
therefore he made mothers”. 
To study the mother in the horoscope and one's relation with the 
mother we have to study 
1. 4th house 
2. 4th lord 
3. Karka Moon 
4. 4th from Moon 
4th House: The conditions for the 4th house to be good are : 
1. It should have benefic planets or have the aspect of benefic 
planets. Malefic planets cause harm to the house. 
2. It is good if it is hemmed in by benefic planets (Shubh 
Kartari Yoga), Pap Kartari Yoga damages the house. 
3.  Ifit has more than 30 Bindus or benefic points in Ashtak 
Varga. 
4. It is strong if it is aspected by its own lord. 
If there are malefics in the 4th house it causes problems for mother. 
4th lord: 4th lord is strong if 
1. It is strong in Vargas and Shadbalas. 
2.  Ifit is exalted or in its own house. 
3.  Ifit is aspected by benefics. 
4. If it has more than five Bindus in its Ashtak vues 
5. It is hemmed in between benefics. 
6. Ifit is in Kendra Trikona. 
Lord is weak if 
1. It is debilitated. 
2. Is in enemy's house. 
3. It is combust. 
4. Is in 6, 8 and 12. 


76 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


5. Is aspected by malefics or is with malefics. 

If it is in Pap Kartari Yoga. 

8. It is not in Mrityubhaga i.e. it is not in the last three or 
first five degrees of the Rasi. 

9.  Ifit has less than 4 benefic points or Bindus in its Ashtak 
Varga. 


Karka Moon 

Apply the same principles to Moon. In addition Moon is beneficial 
if it is waxing or three houses away from Sun. 

Good Relations with Mother 

1. Relations between mother and individual are good if Lagna 
lord and 4th lord are mutual friends. 

2. Lagna lord and 4th lord are not in 6/8 position from each 
other. 

3. Lord of 4 a benefic, and strong in Kendra and aspected by 
benefics or Lagna lord is good for cordial relations between 
the two. 

4. Strong benefic in the fourth is good for happy relations 
with mother. Native is dear to the mother. 

Enmity with Mother 

1. Lord of four in 6,8 and 12 either from Lagna or from Lagna 
lord. The 2/12 position is not so bad as 6/8 position. 

2.  Malefic in the fourth aspected by Moon i.e. Moon in the 

10th. 

3. Ifthe 7th house from Moon is occupied by malefics, child 
is deprived of happiness from mother. 

4. Similarly, Saturn in the 4fh aspected by malefics is not 


~ 


good. 

5. If lords of Ascendant and four are enemies and are with 
malefics. 

6. Saturn and Mars in Lagna are not good. 

7, 11 th house is 8th from 4th as such afflicted. 4th lord in 11 


is not good especially when 11 th is also afflicted. 
8. Lord of 4 and 11 enemies of Lagna lord and afflicted by 
malefics. 


4th House Il 


Yogas for the Step mother 
1. According to Parasara 4th lord in the 6th or with 6th lord 
one gets a step mother and has enmity with father. 
2. Fourth house/fourth lord with malefics in 6, 8, and 12. 
Long Lived Mother 
1. Moon and Venus strong. 
2. Benefic planets in the fourth house. 
3. Strong Moon in an angle or Trikona aspected by benefics. 
4. Dispositor of 4th lord strong. 
Short Lived Mother 
1. Moon weak and 5th and 9th from Moon occupied by 
malefics. 
2. Moon aspected by three malefics. Venus in 7th from Moon 
aspected by malefics. 
Saturn in the 4th aspected by malefics. 
Moon and third lord in 6, 8, and 12. 
No benefic in Kendras and a malefic in the 4th from Moon. 
Fourth house/lord and Moon all afflicted and in Pap Kartari 
Yoga. 
In addition D/12 or Dwadsamsa should be scrutinized for condition 
of parents. Its 4th house for mother and 9th for father. Natural 
Karka for father is Sun. 
Drowning 
Lord of Lagna in 4 in watery sign afflicted and Marka Dasha on. 


NDF w 


Chapter V 


Fifth House 
Suta, Children, High Learning, Purva Punya 


The fifth house deals with 


Education, Parasara calls it house of learning. 

Intellect - high intelligence according to Parasara. 
Wisdom, creative faculties, Purva Punya’. In Vedic 
Astrology creative faculties are judged by planets in the 
fifth house and from the lord of the fifth house. 

Fortune. 

Mantras. 

Progeny. 

Emotions, fame, grandfather. 

According to Maharishi Parasara the 5th house stands for 
royalty as well as fall from position. (It is 8th from 10th) 
According to Uttarkalamitra this house also represents King. 


. Minister of a king. 
. Composition of Kavyas and Prabhandas (minor epic 


narrative) 


. Upasana or worship with penance. 
. Scholarship in literature. 

. Romances and love affairs. 

. Lottery. 


Fifth House is referred to as Poorvapunyasthan or house pertaining 
to merits one has accumulated in previous life. If the 5th house is 
not rendered strong the horoscope is considerably weakened. The 
native in whose horoscope 5fh house is afflicted is likely to lead an 
aimless life. 

Lord of five in different Bhavas 

1st House 

Favourable: Master of many servants, judge, magistrate or Minister. 
God fearing, few children. 


Weak: 


evil minded and miser - only if afflicted. If so cheat, leader 


of gang of swindlers. 

2nd House 

Favourable: Learned, good wife and children. 
Unfavourable: Asthma, poverty, home life disturbed. 


5th House 719 


3rd House 

Favourable: Many children and brothers. 

Unfavourable: Deceitful, problem with children. 

4th House 

Favourable: Mother long lived, Minister, advisor to the king. 
Unfavourable: Not good for children. 

5th House 

Favourable: Good for profession, favourite of government, good 
education, mathematician, head of religious institution. 
Unfavourable: Harms longevity of children, fickle minded, harsh in 
dealings. 

6th House 

Favourable: Prosperous maternal uncle, 

Unfavourable: Enmity with sons, interruption in education, late birth 
or denial of children. Hostility between father and sons. 

7th House 

Favourable: Learned, well known, prosperous, one of the sons settled 
abroad and rich. 

Unfavourable: Loss of children. 

8th House 

Favourable: Inheritance, spiritual development, 'Mantrasidhi", 
awakening of Kundli. 

Unfavourable: Lung, intestinal trouble, breaks in education. bad 
finances. 

9th House 

Favourable: Religious, head of institution, very well educated, learned 
and high intellect. One of the sons becomes author. It is combination 
for authorship also. Fifth house is also house of writing. 

Fifth and 9th combination is the spiritual promise of the horoscope." 
KN Rao ' 

Combination of 5th, 9th and 8th lords gives rise to 'Maha 
Vigyan' Yoga. 

Unfavourable: Misfortune, bad luck. 

10th House 

Favourable : Raj Yoga, high profession, good education, well 
known, landed property, famous, religious. 

Unfavourable Education and profession suffer. 

11th House 

Favourable Good children, learned, well known, author, rich. 
Unfavourable: Earns money through difficulty, shallow knowledge. 


80 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


12th House 

Favourable: Spiritual, attains salvation or Moksha, visits holy places, 
lives with Sadhus. 

Unfavourable Aimless wandering, children live away, not good for 
finances. 

Planets in the 5th House 

Sun 

The Sun in Aries, Leo or Sagittarius gives honour success, 
pleasure, loving nature, intelligence and good education. Sun in Aries 
gives small family. Position often denies children or gives difficult 
childbirth or abortion. A barren sign accentuates effects. Gives 
rank of a minister, high status and success. The Sun in Gemini, 
Libra or Aquarius makes the native a lecturer, writer, publisher or 
public man. 

An afflicted, ill aspected and badly placed Sun of the 5th 
house signifies an arrogant, fickle minded, haughty, irritable over 
ambitious and dominating nature. Brings loss through speculation 
and sorrow through love, pleasure and pride. 

Afflicted Sun is not good for children and education. Most 
of the authorities believe that there will be a few or no children or 
they die early if Sun is in the masculine sign in fifth. 

Sun increases desires of heart or yearning for sex. Desire 
of heart fulfilled with trinal or sextile aspect of Jupiter or conjunction. 
Affliction by Saturn leads to disaster in love and marriage. Affliction 
with Mars causes unfortunate love affairs and unhappiness. Gives 
rise to impulsive action leading to grief. Unfortunate for females. 
Moon 


Is patient, gentle, rich, handsome, healthy and ‘of noble parentage. 
Accomplished in fine arts including music; wise prosperous, reputed 
and blessed with obedient sons. 

Romantic, intelligent, good education. First child daughter. 
More daughters than sons. Gain from speculation and games of 
chance or cards. Moon in Gemini or Pisces gives twins. It is 11 th 
from 7 therefore, gain through wife. Aspected by benefics give him 
son who will bring him fame. Fruitful signs give many children. 

Moon in Taurus, Capricorn or Virgo will give many daughters. 
Last child a son. Moon in Gemini, Libra or Aquarius generally gives 
daughters and no son. 

Moon in Cancer, Scorpio. Aries, Pisces. Sagittarius or Leo 
gives son and daughter alternatively. 


5th House 8l 


In watery signs makes a person a doctor or lawyer. Three 
sons possible. 

Afflicted Moon gives melancholia, dull memory, and unstable 
mind. Afflicted by Saturn makes one a cheat. 

Moon Rahu 

Rahu is good in Aries, Taurus, Cancer, Virgo and Aquarius, 
especially in Kendras, Trikonas, and Upchaya houses. Gives highest 
position of honour, fame and riches in foreign land. 

Mars 

Strong Mars is good for high rank and success. Has a good 
appetite and is voracious eater with good digestion. 

Afflicted causes abortion and problem with children, poverty 
and wickedness. Children do not survive. Poor, wretched, debauch 
attraction towards opposite success. Evil minded, commits sinful 
deeds. Is of angry nature. 

Mercury 

Well educated, author, intelligent, writer, poet or dramatist in 
masculine signs. 

In Aries, Leo and Sagittarius fond of mathematics, 
metaphysical astrology and dancing. In Taurus, Virgo or Capricorn 
specialist in Physics, palmistry, grammar. In watery signs typist, 
and linguistic. 

Affliction is not good for children-ill educated, cruel and 
quarrelsome. 

Venus 

Author, well educated, artist, rich. Affliction causes problems 
in sex. Venus Rahu is combination for love with foreigner. 
Jupiter 
Intelligent, god-fearing, rich, well educated. Afflicted relations with 
children suffer. 

Saturn 

Well placed, hard working, sincere afflicted dull intellect, problem 
with children. 

Rahu 

Unless well aspected, denies children, engineer. 

Ketu 

Mantra Siddhi, harmful for children if badly placed. 

Parasara 

If lord of Lagna and 5th are in their own signs or in angle or in a 
trine one will have happiness through children. 


82 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


Children will do mean deeds if 5th house is occupied by three or 4 
malefics and 5th lord is debilitated. 

Conjunction of Lagna lord with 5th lord gives children early in life. 
Loss of First Child 

5th lord in the 6th and Lagna lord conjunct Mars, loses his first 
child. Wife will not remain fertile to give another child. 
Judgement of Intellect and wisdom and Pattern of Education 
The planets that are involved in granting intellect, education and 
wisdom are Lagna lord for sound health, Mercury for intellect and 
Bhuddi, Jupiter for wisdom or Gyan, Venus for fine arts, Moon as 
Manas Karka or significator of mind and Sun as Atma Karka 
representing high ideals, spiritual values and ultimate success. In 
natural Zodiac Lagna is the first house, Venus is the lord of the 2nd 
house kutumba or education received in childhood, the 3rd house 
represents inclination to study and has the lordship of Mercury. The 
fourth representing mind has the lordship of Moon. The fifth house 
of Purva Punya represent Karma of the past as well as high 
intelligence with Sun as lord. Jupiter is the significator for wisdom 
or Gyan and it is the lord of nine. 


Houses Involved 

So important houses for education are first, 2", 3°*, 4'", 5" and 9", 
But for studying vocational or education at college/University level 
we will study the fifth house. Parasara calls fifth house as house of 
intelligence as also of learning and Maharishi Jaimini uses 5th house 
for education. Fifth house also denotes talent, devotion to God 
learning, and wisdom. 

Jupiter 

Rules talent. intellect, learning, wisdom and children. According to 
Jaimini Sutras Jupiter joins Karkamsa or the fifth from Karkamsa, 
one is all rounder and knows many branches of knowledge, well 
read in sciences and author of various works. He becomes a 
versatile genius. 

Mercury and Venus is good combination for intelligence, education 
and knowledge. 

5th house in Shubh Kartari Yoga, Jupiter in Kendra or Trikona is 
good for education. 

Mercury and Venus in 5th house gives success in academic career. 
The disposition of Moon on the cusp of Ascendant or on the cusp 
of 5th house denotes flair for Music and poetry. 


5th House 83 


According to Jaimini if the Moon joins the |stor Sth of Karkamsa 
Lagna one is clever in Sankhya Shastra, learned in languages, 
poetry, drama, and has great proficiency in music. 
Venus denotes, penance, religious austerity, devotion to God and 
Spiritual austerity. 
Ninth house/lord and 5th house/lord favourably placed are good 
for devotion to religion. 
Venus also rules over Divine qualities. If it is in 5th or as lord of 5th 
is in nine gives divine inspirations. 
Venus in 5th joining Saturn gives unswerving devotion to God. 
Combination for Authors 

1. Moon or Jupiter in Karkamsa Navamsa. 

2. Moon or Jupiter 5th or 9th from above. 

3. Above planets in 5th or 9th. 

4. Moon with Venus and Mercury makes illustrious author, 
poet, dramatist, writer or fiction and story writer and 
historian. 

Moon, Jupiter with Mercury or Venus writer of books on philosophy 
and serious subjects. 

If Mercury, Jupiter and Venus join Moon one writes books in 
astrology, medicine, philosophy, art and accountancy. 

Rahu and Ketu join Moon, any two among Mercury, Jupiter 
and Venus or associated with them give mathematics and Astrology. 
Sharp Intellect 
Mercury main indicator 

1. Mercury strong - 5th house strong. 

2. Exalted 5th Lord aspects 5th house "Bhava Madhya’. 

3. Lord of Navamsa of 5th lord aspected by benefics. 

4. Navamsa lord of Mercury in Kendra / Trikona aspected 
by 5th lord. 

5. Lord of 5th in 9th aspected by benefics. 

6. 5th house in ‘Shubh Kartari’ Yoga. Jupiter in Kendra or 
Trikona 

[Uranus (the higher octave of Mercury) signifies, originality, science 
and invention in its higher aspect. ] 
Dull Intellect 

1. Saturn in 5th aspecting Lagna lord and 5th lord with malefics. 

2. Saturn, Rahu or Gulika in 5th and 5th lord with malefics. 
However, if Mercury is well placed regains memory. 

3. 5th lord with malefics and in malefic Shashthyamsa (D/60). 


84 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


4. Earthy signs in 4 give retentive memory, imagination and 
deep feeling. 
Pattern of Education 
To judge the pattern of education following things should be noted. 
1. Note the fifth house/lord, the planets that influence the 5th 
lord and Rasi in which Sth lord is located. Rasis and planets 
have a big say in deciding pattern of education. 
2. Note the Nakshatra in which Sth lord is located. 
3. See the influences on the 5th house from Mercury. 
4. Note the Mahadasha scheme. 
The strongest of these will decide the pattern of education. 
Planets and Education 
Sun 
In benefic Rasis not aspected by malefics—Political Science. Sun 
is aristocrat while Mars is dictator. 
In malefic Rasis, aspected by malefics-Mathematics, 
doctor, medicine, administration. 
Sun-Mars: Dentist or throat specialist if 3rd or 11 houses are 
involved. Sun-Mercury: Lawyer, accountant. 
Moon: Fine arts, music, painting and chemistry—medicine (In case 
of doctors their Moon is afflicted—seeRao's articles "Doctors' 
drugged Moon" given in details in chapter on profession.) 
Moon-Jupiter: King's minister, educationist, politician, government. 
Moon-Mercury-Venus: artist, poet. 
Moon-Venus: Actor, dramatist, and cinema director. Languages, 
agricultural science, architecture. 
Mars 
Technical education, engineering, and geography. Aggression, martial 
arts like Judo, explosives, doctors, surgeons, army, police, fire 
fighters, and science of warfare. 
Mars-Mercury: Mathematics 
Mars-Jupiter: Police or army 
Mercury 
Commerce, economic, management, chartered accountancy, 
economics and financial subjects. 
Mercury-Rahu: Engineering. 
Mercury-Saturn: Industries. 
Mercury-Jupiter: Astrology. 
Mercury-Saturn: Chemical institution. 


5th House 85 


Jupiter 

Literature, law, history, classical subjects like chanting of Vedas, 
banking, management, Purohit, priest, and religion, temple. 
Venus 

TV, music, fine arts, dress, interior decorators, house management, 
painter, pornography, negative aspects of sex. 

Venus-Moon: Accountancy, commerce, economics. 
Venus-Jupiter-Saturn-Mars: Law, court of law. 

Venus-Mercury: Engineer, photographer, contractor. 

Saturn 

Labour laws, Shudras, democracy, Neta, power of democracy as 
a neta. Not an aristocrat. Technical subjects history, sociology, 
philosophy. 

Rahu 

Mathematics based education, computers, technical education, 
engineering, airlines, shadow photography, electronics. computer 
science, foreign languages, research. 

Rahu-Moon: Doctors, psychosis, Apni Duniya. 

Ketu 

Languages, fine instruments sophisticated items, electronics - 
Moksha. (Mostly people suffer under Ketu Antar or Patyantar 
Dasha one is deprived of something to get detachment) forensic 
sciences, criminology, magic. 

Planets and Children 

Parameters and Concept of Beeja/Kshetra Sphuta 

The study of a children in a horoscope should always be made by 
scrutiny of 

Rasi Chart 

Navamsa 

Saptamsa 

Chandra Lagna 

Calculation of Beeja/Kshetra Sphuta 

5th house, 9th house, Lagna and their lords 

7th house in case of children from second wife 

11 th house as 11this 5th from 7th 

Karka Jupiter 

10, Appropriate Dasha 

11. Transit of planets 


CRN AVAWN 


86 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


Beeja/Kshetra Sphuta 

This is a method unique to Vedic astrology to determine the capability 
of the couple to procreate children. Formulae has been given to 
determine Beeja Sphuta in case of males and Kshetra Sphuta in 
case of females to ascertain potency/sterility etc., in the couple. If 
Beeja (male) is weak and Kshetra (female) strong children may 
be born late in life after undertaking remedial measures/medical 
treatment etc. 

Calculation of Beeja Sphuta (male) 

Add together the longitudes (including Rasis) of Sun, Venus and 
Jupiter. In case the resultant figure is more than 12, divide it by 12 
and get the remainder. The sign so obtained is known as 'Beeja 


Sphuta’. 
Example 
Signs Degrees Minutes 

Longitude of Sun 3 04 3 
Longitude of Venus 4 15 12 
Longitude of Jupiter 8 19 18 
Total 16 69 05 
or 4 Go 05 


The longitude of Beeja Sphuta is Leo 9°5'. Its Navamsa and 
Saptamsa may be worked out accordingly. 

Beeja Kshetra (female) 

Add together the longitudes of Mars, Moon and Jupiter. Divide the 
resultant Rasi by 12 if the total is more than 12 and get the remainder. 
The sign so obtained is Beeja Kshetra 


Example Signs Degrees Minutes 
Longitude of Mars 3 15 16 
Longitude of Moon 4 10 13 
Longitude of Jupiter = 7 09 35 
‘Total 15 05 04 


or 3 05 O4 
The longitude of Kshetra Sphuta is Cancer 5°4'. This formula is 
easy to remember. Jupiter as Karka for children is common in both. 
Sun and Venus in male represent vitality and semen. Mars and 
Moon represent blood and menstrual cycle in female. 
Exercises : 
Calculate Beeja/Kshetra Sphuta in following horoscopes 


5th House 87 


1. Female 
Signs Degrees Minutes 

Longitude of Sun 1 01 55 
Moon 10 23 03 
Mars 2 0 42 
Mercury I 23 18 
Jupiter 3 01 58 
Venus 12 03 26 
Saturn 06 24 05 
Rahu 8 03 23 

2. Male 

Signs Degrees Minutes 

Longitude of Sun 2 27 14 
Moon 7 26 30 
Mars 7 04 09 
Mercury 2 16 32 
Jupiter 2 18 02 
Venus 3 14 06 
Saturn 6 9 26 
Rahu 8 21 18 


3. Female: Work out Beeja Sphuta in Rasi/Navamsa and Saptamsa 

chart, Degrees Moon 109° 18' Mars 298°3' Jupiter 300°01’. 

(Hint - add keeping degrees as these are and expunge the multiple 

of 360°). 

Important: How to study Beeja Kshetra or Beeja Sphuta 

1. Beeja sputa/Beeja Kshetra should be studied like any other 
planet. Since its longitude has already been calculated it should 
be placed in relevant Vargas D/9 and D/7 in the same way as 
a planet is done. 

2. The placement of Beeja Sphuta/Kshetra Sphuta in 6, 8, and 
12 of a horoscope is not considered good for progeny. 

3. The lord of Beeja Sphuta/Kshetra Sphuta should not be 
combust, debilitated, in 6, 8, or 12 or in Pap Kartari Yoga. 

4. The lord of Beeja Sphuta/Kshetra Sphuta should not be 
afflicted by malefics. 

5. Beeja Sphuta/Kshetra Sphuta should also not be afflicted by 
malefics. 

6. It is good for progeny if lord of Beeja Sphuta/Kshetra Sphuta 
aspects Beeja Sphuta/Kshetra Sphuta. 


88 


Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


II - Technique for study of the horoscope for 

(1) Birth of children, (2) Factors responsible for birth - 

All horoscope relating to study of birth of children should be 
scrutinized as follows : - 

From Lagna 


1. 


2 
3. 
4 


Examine the 5th house 

Examine the 5th lord 

Examine the condition of Lagna lord 

Examine the placement of Beeja/Kshetra Sphuta and aspect 
onit. 


From Moon 


Examine the 5th house 
Examine the 5th lord 
Examine Jupiter 

Examine the Navamsa chart 
Examine the Saptamsa chart 


In a nutshell if the Lagna lord and Jupiter-the Karka for children, 
are strong and 5th house and 5th lord have benefic aspects, birth of 
children is assured. 

Note here the importance of Karka Jupiter in a horoscope. Its aspect 
on the 5th house/lord normally assures the birth of children. 
Factors responsible for birth of children 


Aww 


oo 


10. 


Sth house aspected by benefics as also the 5th lord with benefics. 
5th house, the 5th lord or Jupiter receiving benefic aspects. 
Lagna lord strong in the 5th house and Jupiter also strong. 
Jupiter be the 5th lord and strong. 

Jupiter as the 5th lord be aspected by strong Lagna lord. 
Jupiter and the 5th lord be, Vaisheshikamsha (in ten benefic 
divisions in the divisional horoscopes). 

Lagna lord and the 5th lord be together or they aspect each 
other or they exchange places. 

Lagna lord and 5th lord in quadrant and the 2nd strong. 

Find out the Navamsa lord of the 5th lord of the birth horoscope. 
If that planet is in a good condition or well aspected in the birth 
horoscope, the birth of children is assured. 

If both the Lagna and the 9th lords be in the 7th house and the 
2nd lord be in the Lagna, the birth of children is assured. 


. Find out the Navamsa lord of the 7th lord. If that planer is 


aspected by the Lagna, 9th or the 2nd lord, the birth of children 
take place. 


Sth House 89 


Example Horoscope 

1.5'" lord is occupying its own house. Therefore children are assured. 
2. 5 house has also Lagna lord in it which guarantees birth of a child. 
3. 9"" house has benefic exalted 11th lord Moon. 

4, 5* from Moon has no malefic aspect. 


Adale Rani 


Moon 


90 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


5. 5th from Jupiter has exalted Moon, which is good for birth of 
children. 

6. In Navamsa 5th house is aspected by its own lord. 

7. In Saptamsa 5th house has exalted Rahu/Ketu axis in a benefic 
Rasi. 

8. 5th lord Jupiter has 'Neech Bhanga’ Raj Yoga aspected by 


Yoga Karka Mars. 
All these factors assure birth of children. 
Factors responsible for delay of children are 
i) Weak Lagna lord. 
1) Weak Sth lord and afflicted Sth house. 
i) Weak 7th house/7th lord. 
Jupiter, the Karka for children weak. 
Vv) Badly placed and afflicted Beeja Sphuta/Kshetra. 
Vi) An unhelpful Dasha. 
Case Study 1 
Year of Marriage 1973 
Birth of Ist Child 1983 
The 5th lord Venus has gone into the sixth. 
The 5th lord has gone to the 6th house and is with Sun and 
retrograde Mercury. This is a case for delay as well as denial 
of birth. 
The 5th house is aspected by Mars, the 6th Lord. 
In Saptamsa, the 6th lord Mars is in the 5th aspected by Saturn 
making it a difficult case. But there is the aspect of Jupiter, the 
5th lord himself helped by another benefic from his sign of 
exaltation. 


Ss Mar (R) 
RASHI Sa! 
| ; #-13-19:45 

| L 


nN 


5 th House 91 


NAVAMSA 


Ven 
Rahu 
Sapiamaa 
Sat 
Mi 


5. The 5th lord of Saptamsa, Jupiter is with a benefic Mercury 
but is aspected by 6th lord, Mars, who is the Lagna lord and so 
a helpful planet also. 

6. The marriage took place in the Dasha of Rahu who is not a 
child giver. From September 1982 the Dasha of Jupiter started 
which is a qualified child giver. 

7. In 1983 the Antar Dasha would be that of Jupiter which will be 
the best period. 

8. In 1983 Saturn was in Libra the 5th house and Jupiter in Scorpio 
on the 5th lord. 

In 1983 he had his first child after 10 years of marriage. 


\o 


2. Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


Case Study 2 
Married in 1959 
First Child born in September 1968. 


RASHI 
8-12-1945 


5th House 93 


1. The 5th house is aspected by retrograde Saturn meaning delay 
in birth of children. The aspect of Jupiter, provides some relief. 
2. The retrograde 5th lord Venus would give erratic results. 
3. In Saptamsa the 6th lord Mars is in the 5th house. Here again 
the aspect of Jupiter provides some relief. 
4. The 5th lord of Saptamsa, Venus is in the 6th house aspected 

by Sun, Mercury (Lagna lord) and Saturn the 8th and 9th lord. 
Note: Saturn the 9th lord in both the horoscopes is a qualified child 
giver. 

5. After 1965 Rahu - Venus period started. Rahu in the 9th house 
is qualified to give children. Venus is the 5th lord. 

Transit 

In the second half of 1967, Saturn was in Pisces but retrograde in 

the 9th house and Jupiter in Leo was aspecting the 9th house. Mars 

transiting between Scorpio and Sagittarius was aspecting the Sth 
lord Venus. On September 1968 when Saturn was in Aries, aspecting 
the 5th house and 5th lord, and Jupiter and Mars in Leo aspecting 
the 9th house, his wife prepared to deliver a baby. 

Denial of Children 

Yogas that Deny Children 

This has been discussed in details in Chapter 14 of the book "Planets 
and Children" by K. N. Rao. 

In brief the Yogas that deny children are as follows : - 

1. Beeja/Kshetra Sphuta should not be associated with 8th lord, 

Mercury, Saturn or Rahu. Nor these sensitive points should 
have affliction both in Rasi and Navamsa charts. 

Rahu in the 5th house in the Rasi of Mars or Rahu in the 5th 
aspected by Mars. 

Conjunction of Rahu with the 5th lord. 

Rahu in Lagna, Mars and Jupiter in the 5th. 

Rahu and Mercury in the 5th. 

According to Mantreshwara conjunction of 5th and 7th lords 

or exchange between them denies children. (This is true in 

some cases only.) 
7. Weak Jupiter, weak Lagna lord, weak 5th and 7th houses deny 
children. This is known as "Anapathya Yoga”. 

8. Lagna lord and 5th lord in 6th, 8th or 12th with Jupiter debilitated 
and Mercury and Saturn in 5th. 

9. Saturn in 5th aspected by Moon. 

10. 2nd, 5th and 7th lords conjunct in one house-Navamsa lords of 
these planets malefic and also occupying malefic signs. These 
combinations in classical books have been dealt with under the 
head curses of snakes, father, mother, brothers etc. 

It has been observed that if Rahu, 5th house/5 th lord and Lagna are 


AWPw 


94 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


afflicted it is due to curse of father. If Moon and 4th house are 
afflicted it is due to the curse of mother. 3rd house/lord and Mars 


represent curse of brother etc. 
Example Chart : - 
Lag Kshetra 
Sphuta 
jee 
FEMALE 
RASHI = 


Raku 


Navamisa 
Ven 
Moan 


Signs Degrees Minutes 
Kshetra Sphuta 
Longitude of Moon 3 20 40 
Longitude of Mars 11 09 08 
Longitude of Jupiter 11 07 17 
Total 6 07 05 
or 2 07 05 


1. 5th house has Rahu aspected by Mars. 

2. 5th and 9th lord Mercury and Saturn are in 9th. Both are 
eunuchs with Lagna and 6th lord. 

3. Lord of 6th and 9th is an ancestral curse. 

4. Kshetra Sphuta is in odd sign. 


5th House 95 


In Navamsa 
1. Kshetra Sphuta is in odd Rasi, which is not good. 
2. Sth lord Venus is aspected by Saturn. 

Dr. Nagendra Singh 


Mars Mer 
Moon | Rahu 


Ven Jup 


96 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


— 


Beeja Sphuta is aspected by Mars. 
From Moon Beeja Sphuta is in 12th. 
From Lagna 5th from Beeja Sphuta has Saturn. 
Satum aspects the 5th house. 
Sth from Jupiter has Pap Kartari Yoga. 
. Jupiter Karka for children is debilitated. 
In Navamsa 
Sth lord Saturn is aspected by Mars. 
Jupiter is afflicted by Saturn and Mars. 
Beeja Sphuta is in 8th in even Rasi. 
From Jupiter 5th has Ketu aspected by Mars. 
This makes the last hope vanish. 
In Saptamsa 
1. Sth has Mars. 
2. Saptamsa Lagna has Rahu and Mercury 
Timing Birth of Children 
1. Dashas which give children 
2. Use of Transit in Timing Birth. 
Dashas 
Children are born in Dashas / Antardasha of planets connected 
with: 
1) 5th house or 5th lord. 
2) 9th house or 9th lord. 
3) Lagna or the Lagna lord. 
4) Jupiter 
"Most important rule is that the Mahadasha lord of the 5th house 
from Lagna. Saptamsa and planets in the 5th house promise a 
continuous or continual birth of children." K. N. Rao. 
Transit and Birth of Children 
This is the original research of Rao after studying hundreds 
of horoscopes. 
Transit of Saturn. 
Saturn should have aspected the 
a) Sth house or 5th lord or 
b) 9th house or 9th lord 
within nine months of the birth of children, through direct motion or 
retrograde motion in which case it gives effect from previous house 
also. 


DAukwhy 


Ron 


5th House 97 


Transit of Jupiter 

Jupiter should have likewise aspected any of the four points 
mentioned above within nine months of the birth of the child. 
Transit of Mars 

Mars normally aspects any of the above four points within 75 days. 
Transit of Moon 

The Moon should aspect any of the four points given above. 
Example Horoscopes: 

Horoscope of Pt. Nehru 

When Indira Gandhi was born in November 19th, 1917, in Nehru's 
horoscope the Saturn was in Cancer aspecting the 5th lord Mars in 
Virgo. Jupiter was in Taurus aspecting the 5th house. Mars was in 
Leo aspecting 5th house. Moon was in Capricorn aspecting Lagna. 
Horoscope of Indira Gandhi 

Birth of Rajiv Gandhi: August 20, 1944 

Saturn was in Gemini aspecting 5th lord Mars in Leo. 

Jupiter was in Leo with the 5th lord Mars. 

Mars, was in Virgo aspecting the 9th house. 

Birth of Sanjay Gandhi 

Saturn was in Gemini till June 8th, 1946, aspecting the 5th lord 
Mars in Leo. 

Jupiter was in Virgo till 17th August aspecting both the 9th house 
Pisces and the natal 9th lord Jupiter. 

Varun Gandhi 

Saturn was in Virgo in the 9th house of his father aspecting 9th lord 
Mercury. 

Jupiter retrograde in Leo was aspecting 9th lord Mercury from one 
house previous. 

Example 2 

Lal Bahadur Shastri 

On April 9, 1936 when a son was born lo him Saturn was aspecting 
the 5th lord and Jupiter the 5th house. Mars was in Aries the 5th 
house. 

Example 3 

Charan Singh 

On September 14,1927, when a son was born to him. Jupiter was 
aspecting his 5th lord and Saturn aspecting his 5th house Mars in 


98 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


Virgo on the 5th lord aspecting the 5th house. 

Timing through Vimshottari Dasha 

Mother's horoscope 

Date of Birth 18th March 1942, married in 1961, 

Balance of Mercury 7y 3m 16d 

First daughter; Nov. 13, 1964: Venus - Rahu 

Venus, as a benefic and Lagna lord is qualified to give continual 
birth of children. Rahu is also a child giving planet. Here it is aspecting 
the 5th house. 


Transit; Saturn was in the 5th house, Aquarius, and Jupiter was in 
Taurus. 
See Horoscope Below 


Lag, 
Moon, Mer 
Jup 
5 


5th House 99 


Varun Gandhi Lal Bahadur Shastri 


100 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


VI - Sex of Children 

1. 5th house 5th lord planet aspecting or posited with them and 
Jupiter normally give a clue to ascertain the sex of child. This 
should be examined from, Rasi Chandra Lagna Navamsa and 
Saptamsa charts. 

2. Use can also be made of ‘Putra Pada’ and 5th from Beeja/ 
Kshetra Sphuta. Putra Pada is as many houses away from 
5th lord as 5th lord is from the 5th house. 

3. Sun Mars and Jupiter are male planets, Moon Venus are female 
and Saturn and Mercury are eunuchs. Their association with 
5th house 5th lord give a clue to the sex of a child. 

4. Also see whether 5th house/lord fall in masculine or feminine 
Rasis. All odd Rasis are male and all even signs are female. 

5. Retrograde planets give unpredictive results. 

6. Dashas are also indicative of the sex of children. Dasha of a 

male exalted planets give normally birth of a son. 

5th lord in 5th favourably disposed gives number of sons. 

5th lord in exaltation or occupying a Kendra or Trikona gives 

many children. 

9. Mercury and Ketu in company of Sun in a male sign behave 
like male planets. Planets in association with male planets in 
male Rasis give sons. 

10. Moon in the 5th house normally gives a daughter as a first child. 

11. According to Sarvarth Chintamani the children should be 
considered from the 5th, 7th and 9th houses. 

12. According to Jatak Parijat malefics in 6th, 8th and 12th from 
5th house are not conducive to birth of sons. 

13. The sex of first child should be studied from the 5th house, the 
second from the 7th and 3rd from the 9th. 

Lesson No. 7 

Birth of Worthy Children 

5th house, 5th lord, Karka Jupiter and position of Sun enable one to 

find whether one will get worthy children or not. 

1. Jupiter as the Sth lord and Sun well placed give children. 

2. Strength of the 5th lord and its placement in Kendra and 
Trikona is pointer to happiness from children. 

3. Jupiter's aspect on the 5th house or the Sth lord and 5th 
house having benefic aspects give birth to children who 
bring a good name to parents. 5th house should be assessed 
from Chandra Lagna also. 


o x4 


5th House 10l 


5th lord's association with 6th lord give birth to a child 
who is hostile to father. Likewise association of 5th lord 
with 8th and 12th lords gives similar results. In this due 
care should be taken to assess benefic aspects and other 
mitigating circumstances like placement of good Lagna lord, 
luminaries and presence of other Raj Yogas. 

Malefic effects on 5th house/5 th lord give birth to children 
who become source of mental torture and agony 

This point has been highlighted by K.N. Rao in his 
monumental work "Karma and Rebirth". See the following 
horoscopes of an illustrious couple, a father and a mother 


Father's horoscope 


1. 


2. 
3 


Note the position of 5th lord Jupiter, placed in the most 
powerful Kendra, the tenth. 

There is no affliction to the 5th house. 

The 5th lord Jupiter is also aspecting the 9th lord Moon in 
the 2nd house, the house of Kutumba. 

The Moon in turn is aspected by the Lagna lord and exalted 
4th lord ensuring Raj Yoga and happiness. 

5th house from Moon Aries is aspected by the 9th and 
10th lords from Moon, Sun and Mercury, making a powerful 
connection between Poorva Janama and Karma. 


Mother's Horoscope (see chart next page) 


1. 


5th lord Jupiter is in the 10th again, the Karmasthan with 
exalted Moon unafflicted by malefics making a very 
powerful Gaj-Kesari Raj Yoga. 

5th house is unafflicted. 

5th from Moon is aspected by its own lord Mercury having 
Neech Bhanga Raj Yoga with exalted Venus, the Moon- 
sign lord and 10th lord from Lagna. It is no doubt that the 
offsprings of this noble couple attained eminent positions 
in life, remained devoted to their parents all their life and 
became a source of inspiration and nobility to hundreds 
around them. 


VINI- Number of Children 

In these days of family planning it is very difficult to ascertain the 
number of children. Some methods mentioned in the classical books 
are given below. These give accurate results in limited number of 
cases only 


1. 


The number of children can be ascertained from the 
number of Navamsas the 5th lord has moved. 


102 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques’ 


2. In Ashtak Varga the number of children is known from the 
benefic Bindus containedin the 5th from Jupiter in Jupiter's 
Ashtak Varga. 

3. The Nakshatra method which gives slightly better results 
is not mentioned here. 


Father's Horoscope 


FATHER 


Chapter VI 
Sixth House 


(House of Debt Diseases and Enemies) 
"Shatru. Bhava" 


This house deals with 

Diseases. 

Trouble from enemies. 

Injuries and wounds. 

Litigation. 

Sorrows and worries. 

Maternal uncle and cousins. 

Armies. 

Debt. 

Accidents. 
. Servants. 
. Misfortunes and ill luck. 
. Ill fame. 
. Clothes. 
. Dishonour. 

15. According to Parasara this also deals with step mother. 

This house also deals with senses. In female horoscope, loose morals, 
miscarriage, abortion, come under purview of this house. 


Sixth is also an Upachaya (Houses of elevation) house, 
others being 3. 10. and_ 11. As an Upachava 6th gives beneficial 
results also but its Dusthana results are not disallowed from showing 
up. 

Human life exists so long as it can withstand onslaught of 
hostile forces of nature outside. Strength of inner attributes withstand 
competition from outside. Weak attributes meet defeat and in 
consequence suffer pain physically and mentally. 

Sixth house and planets relating to 6th show weakness or 
strength of the native, his opportunities and limits to fight against 
foes and misfortune. 

In the modern world where the struggle for existence is acute, sixth 
house must be strong to give you all the material advantage and 
crush opposition but it should be weaker than Ascendant. 
If lord of six is stronger than Lagna, person loses to 


CHONAKRHWN 


SS = SS eS 
hRWNF CO 


104 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


competition. 

Malefics in the 6th House 

Malefics in the 6th are considered good, and show strength of the 
horoscope, but they should not be afflicted while benefics are 
considered wasted. However, if three afflicted malefics planets 
are located or aspect the 6th or 8th house, person remains sick 
since birth and suffers due to machination of enemies and undergoes 
monetary losses. 

Benefics in the Sixth 

Benefics in six are considered wasted because the best position for 
them is Kendras where they become strong and give material and 
monetary advantage to the person concerned. However, they save 
one from diseases, debt and litigation. Strong Moon with more than 
5 Bindu (benefic points of Ashtak Varga, makes a man millionaire 
(Horoscope of Henry Ford). According to Bhavarth Ratnakar. Moon 
in six makes one intelligent and in third fickle. 

Good benefics, not afflicted in a good Rasi give good results. Jawahar 
Lal Nehru had Jupiter in the 6th House in its own house from where 
it aspects the 10th house. He rose very high in life - of course there 
were other combinations also. 

Venus in the 6 and 12, gives wealth. 

Result of 6th Lord in Different Houses 

1st House 

Favourable: 6th lord in Lagna gives authority - Sathya Rishi 

According to Maharishi Parasara the person will be rich, 
famous highly qualified and courageous, but will have no son. 

It makes one high administrative officer, a minister of war or 
official concerned with prisons. 

According to Jatak Alankar 6th lord in Lagna kills enemies. 
Unfavourable: Weak and afflicted 6th lord in the Lagna makes a 
man thief, robber or leader of criminal gang. 

{f the ascendant is in Libra and the 6th lord Jupiter is with 
Lagna the native never keeps good health and suffers set back in 
all his efforts, as according to Maharishi Parasara "Tula Lagna 
Guru Khalas" or Jupiter is very unfavourable for Libra Lagna. 

Lagna lord with lord of six causes disease. 

Affliction of 6th lord to Mercury’ and Mars is not good for 
mental health. 


6th House 105 


In the Second House 

Favourable: Courageous, orator, happy. But has untold suffering 
in family life, disowned by immediate relatives and lives in foreign 
land. 

Unfavourable: With malefics family life suffers. Defective eye 
sight, uneven teeth, stammerer, and poverty stricken. If Venus is 
also weak denies marriage. Quarrels in the family, loss of wealth 
through thieves. Does not get timely meals. May not have any 
younger brother. 

In the Third House 

Favourable: Rich 

Unfavourable: Enmity with brothers, violent temper quarrelsome 
and uncompromising, malicious, intolerant, loss of money due to 
maternal uncle. 

In the Fourth House 

Favourable: Education and mother suffer from diseases. House 
may be old and dilipidated. Obstacles in education. 
Unfavourable: Poor, servant or a cook, mother immoral, trouble 
from house or land. Miserable life, jail, quarrel with mother. 

In theFifth House 

Favourable: Adopted by maternal uncle. May have some wealth 
and fame. 

Unfavourable: Education and son suffers. 

In the Sixth House 

Favourable: Person has the capacity to fight things outside that 
may attack his mind and health. Maternal uncle wealthy and 
fortunate. If Saturn, as Karka of the 6th house joins the ascendant, 
the person will be lucky and may become commander in chief of 
the army. 

Unfavourable: One will suffer through his enemies. 

In the Seventh House 

Favourable : 

Maternal uncle will be prosperous. He may marry his uncle's 
daughter. His maternal uncle may stay in foreign country. 
Unfavourable: In 7th - bad for health of wife, Enmity with wife. 
Wife may die in the Dasha of the 6th lord. If the Ascendant lord is 
in impotent Rasi, the person may also be impotent. 

In the Eighth House 

Favourable: Medium span of life. In 6, 8 and 12 causes Vipareet 


106 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


Raj Yoga. 

Unfavourable: Also according to Sathya Rishi, gambling habit, 
syphilis. Many troublesome periods. Diseases throughout life. May 
get into debts. 

In the Ninth House 

Favourable: Father may be a judge but will be his enemy if with 
malefics. 

Unfavourable: His fortune will suffer and he will have a miserable 
time. 

In the Tenth House 

Favourable: He will do bad or cruel deeds. He may pretend to be 
religious but will be sinful. There will be transfer or change in the 
job. 

Unfavourable: He may lose his job. 

In the Eleventh House 

Favourable: Elder brother will be high officer with authority to 
impose fines and imprisonment. 

Highly qualified and efficient. (Horoscope of I. K. Gujral, former 
Prime Minister of India.) 

Unfavourable: Poverty and miserable life, also according to Sathya 
Rishi, gambling habit, syphilis. 


Rahu, Mer 
Sun 
8 


LK. Gujral 


eee 


In the Twelfth House 
Favourable: Elder brother will be a judge. 


Unfavourable: Causes harm to others, miserable life. Squanders 
his money on evil ways. 


6th House 107 


Sun and Moon with 6 lord causes drowning. Lagna plus Mars and 
6 lord, injuries from weapon. If Mercury-disease of bile. If Saturn 
trouble from low class people. Rahu/Ketu fear from serpents. 

In Pisces Lagna sixth lord Sun with Venus and Mercury in 8 causes, 
asthma, TB, pleurisy. 

If lord of six house is in exaltation, the person concerned will progress 
without any trouble from enemies. 

Planets in the Sixth 

Sun 

Good and famous - may be politician. Successful in all his venture. 
According to Satyachari the Sun in the sixth house protects against 
enemies, sickness, sorrow and debt. 

Diseases relating to Sun: The Wester astrology does not believe 
the Sun in the 6th house is good. Being in ascendent house it weakens 
the constitution. If afflicted by Saturn recovery is slow. The native 
is mostly indisposed and is liable to catch diseases quickly. 

If afflicted it may cause diseases of eye, bones, heart bronchitis, 
asthma, nervousness and diphtheria. 

Moon 

If full or exalted or in its own sign helps to guard diseases as well as 
other adversities. Person enjoys life. 

Weak-suffering, short lived, poor appetite, inactive mentally or 
physically. Sickness and danger in the childhood. This is also a 
combination for Balaristha. 

If afflicted no gains from maternal uncle. 

Mars 

An able administrator, politicians, overcomes opposition, victory in 
sports and winning of court cases. 

If afflicted diseases relating to Mars, like boils, permanent injury, 
weak chest and muscles, smallpox, suffers from hands of servants 
and accidents. Afflicted with Saturn danger of death through 
operation. Danger from arms, fire, and poison. 

Mercury 

Strong Mercury gives sharp intellect, but quarrelsome and popular. 


108 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


Gets divine knowledge from the holy men. 

Afflicted Mercury - educational career suffers, dull intellect, 
nervous, skin diseases, indigestion, diseases of generative system. 
Jupiter 
Strong Jupiter is good for career as it aspects 10th house. See 
Horoscope of JL Nehru. Overcomes his enemies and has wealth. 


Great healer extends healing hand to community. Fond of music 
and dancing. 


Weak Jupiter leads to diabetes, liver, blood and digestive system 
and as Karka for wealth and children, their signification suffers. 
Interest in wine, women and games of chance. 


Venus 


Many strong and powerful enemies: like gods they seem to have 
drunk nectar. Excessive expenditure leading to poverty and debt; 
much mental torture. No gain or success in business inspite of best 
effort rather makes a mess of it. Trouble through wrong Mantras. 


Has no enemies, wealthy according to Bhavarth Ratnakar. 

If afflicted deficiency in married life, corrupted by young women. 
Kidney and ovarian trouble. 

Great success if in Taurus or Libra. Always cheerful if exalted. 
Saturn 


With Saturn in the sixth house the native is not afraid of enemy, the 
king or the thief. A matchless warrior. Blessed with cattle wealth, 
Hard worker, able lo complete difficult assignments. 
Afflicted-accidents, diseases of right eye, quarrelsome. 

Rahu 

It destroys all enemies. His strength, wisdom, valour and conscience 


are stable. Himself matchless. Hero, handsome, intelligent, respected, 
known like a ruler. Goes abroad. 


Denotes wealth, progeny and pleasure of every kind. 
Trouble free if exalted. Strong and brave. Good health. Rich with 
conveyance, jewellery, wealth and fortune. If with benefics grace 


6th House 109 


of government, absence of sickness, wealth and family happiness. 
Patient, tolerant and prosperous. 

Long-lived and wealthy, troubled by enemies. 

Pleasure with the princess if with Moon in this house. 

If afflicted trouble in the rectum, teeth or lips. Danger from 
service in army or navy. 
Ketu 
Best position for Ketu, earns name and fame. Free from sickness 
and worry, successful in most heated debates and discussions Dear 
to relatives, large hearted, skilled, reputed, honour and fame through 
knowledge. Financial gains. High officer. 
Danger from insects, reptiles or animals, unfaithful servants. 
Saturn, Mars, Rahu and Sun in exaltation in the 6th are most 
favourable to fight diseases and enemies. In relation to the First 
house in any of them show native's talent in sport or such other 
competitions or control over senses. 


‘Saturn, Mars, Rahu or Sun’ in debilitation - shows suffering, physical 
and mental. ' Sarma 


Jupiter, Venus or Mercury too good for this house, prolonged danger 
from enemies or diseases but ultimate victory if not afflicted. 


Particularly if debilitated indicates tendency towards sensual life. 
Only in favourable circumstances has power to control over senses. 


Dasha of the Lord of Six 

Lord of Six in the Ascendant : 

If lord of six is placed in the ascendant with the ascendant lord, 
during the period of lord of six, the person may suffer from diseases 
and sores. He may have trouble through the government. 

If Rahu is also involved trouble through thieves. 


If Sun and Moon are week. He will suffer from poverty. 
If lord of Ascendant is in conjunction with 6,8 or 12 lord, he will be 
*« afflicted with serious disease like leprosy. 


If the Lagna lord is placed very near the ascendant or Lagna 


110 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


Navamsa, the period will bring diseases, miseries cause by enemies 
and poverty. Difficulties will go on increasing. There will be no 
relief from troubles. 


If the 6th lord is placed in 6, 8 or 12th Navamsa and lord of Lagna 
is Vargottam, bad effects will be reduced. 


Lord of Six in the Second 


Lord of six in the second with 2nd lord-signification of 2nd house 
suffers. Family quarrels, loss of wealth, impediments in speech, 
eating meals at improper times, diseases of eye, toothache etc. The 
aspects of benefic planets mitigate the harm. 


If Lagna lord is also involved in the above combination, death may 
result, and there will be evil results in the early boyhood. 


Lord of Six in the Third 


If lord of six is in the third with 3rd lord, enmity with brothers will 
result. There may be ear trouble and torment by enemies. If Mars, 
as Karka of third house becomes weak, brother may fall sick. 


Lord of Six in the Fourth 


If 6th lord is in the fourth and Rahu and Moon conjoin, mother in old 
age becomes very sick. 


If Mars, as Karka for land is very weak, there is loss of land and 
property from the hands of enemies. 


If Mercury is weak, education is interrupted. 
With Venus weak, there is trouble to conveyances. 


With Lagna lord and lord of six being enemies or in 6/8 position 
mother is abandoned. 


Combination with malefics causes damage to cattle, crops and 
agriculture. 


Lord of Six in the Fifth 


Tn 5th with 5th lord, his one son or father inimical. Children may be 
sick. Worship and austerities interrupted. Problem for children. 
Conjunction with benefics mitigate evil effects. 


6th House 111 


Lord of Six in the Sixth 


Combined with benefics results are good. In the beginning results 
due to planets with the 6th lord. Comfort and happiness. Success in 
undertaking. Overcome his enemies. Income from landed properties 
will increase. Lord of six with lords of 8 and 12 gives Vipareet Raj 
Yoga. Posited in Kendra, Trikona in Navamsa, enemies will trouble 
him. During sub period of planets in combination with lord of six 
unfavourable result will occur. 


Lord of Six in the Seventh 

With lord of seventh, divorce, misunderstanding, sickness of wife 
or self as it aspects Lagna. 

If lord of ascendent is also with malefics, sickness, debt or enemies, 
loss of women. If lord of 6th house be in 6, 8 or 12 Amsa from lord 
of seven, there will not be much trouble. 

If lord of six and two be in conjunction, death may happen. 

Venus and Rahu in Kendra or Trikona wife victim of slander and 
scorn. 

Karka weak and in Ubhaya Rasi second marriage due to 
misunderstanding with first wife. 


Venus in Rasi of Saturn of Mars aspected by malefics gives many 
women. 


Lord of six in the Eighth 


Combined with benefics give good results. If lord of sixth is combined 
with ascendant in Rasi or Navamsa, illness and enemies overtake 
him. 

If lord of six is in malefic Navamsa, serious trouble from enemies 
and diseases. Ifthe 6th lord is in 6, 8 or 12 Navamsa, but lord of 
Lagna occupies auspicious Amsas, there will be relief from troubles. 
The planet combining with lord of six in the eighth house becomes 
a ‘Marka’. (death inflicting). 


Lord of Six in the Ninth 


Combined with malefics, with Karka also afflicted, father of the 
native suffers. Property from father is lost. Lord of six combining 


112 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


with Karka of 9th house, death of father may occur. Lord of six 
and eight combining with lord of nine, father may die before birth. 
Iflord of seven also combines, death in some foreign land. 
Enmity with father: Lord of Six and nine combining. 


Lord of Six in the Tenth 
Outwardly a pious man, but unscrupulous in religious matters. 
Hindrances and obstacles in profession. 


When the lord is weak, has great set back in career, low life and 
handicapped. profession. 


Lord of Six in the Eleventh 
Highly qualified and efficient, elder brother may be a judge. 
If afflicted loss in all ventures. Miserable life. 


Lord of Six in the Twelfth 


Enemies will be wiped out. In the beginning of the Dasha some evil 
deeds will be committed. Lord of six can produce illness and evil 
results during sub period of planets within which it is combined in 
the 12th house. If combined with benefics, it will give auspicious 
results. If lord of six be in 6, 8 or 12 Navamsas, results may not be 
good. However, in Trikona Navamsa results will be better. 


Chapter VII 
Seventh House 


House of Marriage and Partnership (Jaya Bhava) 


The seventh house deals with; 

1. Marriage, wife, marital happiness. 

2. Partnership, business. 

3. Foreign. As the Ist house is birthplace, the 7th is farthest 
from it. According to Parasara if lord of 1 st is in 7 property 
is far away from home. 

Roads. 

Lower abdomen, sexual diseases. 

Losing one's way. 

According to sage Sattyacharya it also shows change of 
residence and foreign travel. 

8. Diplomacy. 

9. Talent, energies. 

10. Death. 

It also represents favours from the employer as it is 10th 
from 10 and general happiness as it is 4th from fourth. 


Result of 7th Lord in Different Houses 
In the First House 


The seventh lord in Lagna or Lagna lord in 7th makes one attached 
to his wife, as ascendant is mirror reflection of 7th house and vice 
versa. 


IAM 


This is also a combination to marry some one known since childhood. 


It also means constant travelling. Is combination for marriage if 
other factors are there. Liaison with many women. Lord of Lagna 
weak, aspected by malefics in 7, means more than one wife. In 
Dasha/antra death of wife. 7th lord joining 6th lord in Lagna gives 
more than one wife - this applies specially to planet Mercury. 


Second House 
1. Wealth through marriage. 
2. Ifit is afflicted it may mean trade in flesh. 


114 


3 


4. 
3: 


Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


If 7th lord is in dual signs and is afflicted, more than one 
*marriage is possible. 


Sensual and wavering mind. 


Native may die in Marka Dasha. 


Third House 


l. 
2: 
3. 


Brothers may live abroad and be lucky. 
Adultery with brother's wife. 


Misfortune to co-born. 


Fourth House 


1. Happy wife, many children. 

2. High academic qualification. 

3. Many vehicles. 
Afflicted: Wife, conveyance etc. problems, no domestic 
happiness. 

Fifth House 

1. Early marriage. 

2. Rich husband/wife. 

3. If lord is afflicted there may be no children or there may 
be only daughters. 

4 Some of the astrologers do not like 7th lord to be in the 


fifth. According to Phala Deepika the native will lose his 
wife or he will become sonless. 


5. Fifth house is house of romance and 7th house is house of 


marriage. There may be love marriage. 


Sixth House 
This is not a good position for lord of seven to be in, as 6th is a 
Dusthan house . It may give following effects: 


1. 


Aunkwn 


Two marriages. 

Marriage with cousin. 

If Karka Venus is afflicted this may also show impotency. 
Wife remains sick. 

Loss of wife, death, divorce etc. 

Seventh lord in 6 delays marriage in women but in 8 
disturbs or causes serious mishap. Jupiter's aspect dilutes 
but does not nullify it. 


7th House 115 


Seventh House 


1. 
2. 
3. 


Eighth 


1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 


Gives charming and charismatic personality. 

Women flock to him. 

Wife comes from a good family. According to Phala 
Deepika even malefic as lord of seven in seven will bless 
the native with a good wife. 

Afflicted and lonely life with no friends or wife. Breakdown 
in negotiations for marriage. 

House 

Boss's favour is judged from the 7th house because it is 
10th front 10th. The 7th is also 4th from 4th. 

Partner may be rich. 

Early death of partner, native dies in distant land. 

Sickly, ill tempered wife. 

Separation. "In the ending of any marriage the role of 8th 
house or planet in the 8th is well known" - K.N. Rao. 


N inth House 


1. 
2. 
3. 


Father abroad. 

Fortune in foreign land. 

Accomplished wife. 

Affliction weak 7 lord in 9 in women disturbs marriage. 
Divorce, judicial separation, cancelled engagement, last 
minute change of groom. Wife stays away from Dharma 
and wastes wealth. 


Tenth House 


1. 


Success in profession abroad, devoted wife helps in 
profession. 


Eleventh House 
Rich wife, More than one marriage, legally or otherwise. 
Twelfth House 


1. 


2. 
3. 
4. 


More than one wife, clandestine love affairs. 

Death of spouse, separation. 

Late marriage. 

If Karka is also afflicted, dream of women -may never 
marry. Miser and poor. 


116 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


Planets in the 7th house: 
Sun 

Sun and Mercury are very bad in 7. Life is not happy - even 
when exalted. 

According to western astrology, Sun in the 7th gives ambitious 
partner and is good for social and financial position. Well aspected 
gives harmony and happiness in married life. 

In Vedic astrology Sun is a malefic planet. It causes strained 
relations with wife, mentally depressed, little profit in business - 
causes insomnia. Not good for business. 

Delays marriage. There is no happiness and pleasure in married 
life. Has two wives. Travels broad. Is fickle minded, ugly and sinner. 

If Sun is in his own sign or strong, is loyal to his wife or if the 
Sun is in the enemy sign or in depression or has ill aspect he is 
polygamist. 

The results of Sun in Aries. Leo and Capricorn in the 7th 
house are not favourable. It means late marriage with difficulty and 
also two marriages, it brings dishonour to the husband. 

In Gemini, Libra or Aquarius, gets good education, expert in 
law and administration, promotes music, law and literature. Has 
few or no children. In feminine signs Taurus, Virgo and Capricorn, 
gain in business. Fights election. 

In Cancer. Scorpio and Pisces makes doctors or engineers. 
Wife of the native will be impressive, good at public dealings, good 
hostess, and helpful. She is good looking but tight fisted. 

Sun in seven gives ego problem for spouse, too proud but also 
tactful to keep spouse happy. 

Moon 

Exalted and full Moon gives a beautiful and charming wife. 
Native himself is handsome and rich. Gain from sale or purchase, 
roving on land and foreign trade abroad. He is kind and always 
travelling, dominated by his wife or other women. 

Gain from voyaging, trade, speculation; water products, 
partnership, land, grocery shop, hotel industry, commission and 
insurance agents. 

If Moon is debilitated, aspected or associated with malefics 
wife remains sick and there is no peace and happiness in life. 


7th House 117 


Fluctuating life, business and trade. Trouble and loss through 
litigation. 

Venus - Moon - It indicates more than one wife, vain, sexy, weak, 
discontented and jealous. 

Afflicted by Mars it causes enmities, irrational action, assaults 
and discontentment. 

Adverse aspect of Saturn causes loss and disappointment in 
partnership. Favourable aspects give success in business and 
partnership. 

Mars 

Mars in the 7th causes Kuja Dosha or death of partner. It also 
gives troublesome opponents and residence abroad. 

Wicked, debauch, impetuous and excessive love gives 
disappointments. 

Afflicted Mars denotes unhappy married life and quarrels. 
Rarely has sex with wife. Little gain, journey, home and wife. 

In male charts it gives aggressive partner. The native is sickly, 
unhappy, wicked and poor. He is short tempered and not respected 
by wife. 

In female charts indicate robust and prominent breasts. Is 
disastrous for husband who may meet violent death if Mars is 
debilitated or is in enemy sign. Results are to be modified if Mars is 
with benefics, exalted or in its own sign or when Mars is Yoga 
Karka for Cancer or Leo Lagna. 

In Capricorn Lagna Mars in the 7th is debilitated. The aspect 
of Saturn from the first gives loose morals, homosexuality and bad 
health. Litigation or partnership involves loss. 

Mercury 

Sun and Mercury are very bad in seven. Life not happy - 
even when exalted. 

Mercury is a eunuch planet and as such is impotent. Its 
association in any form with the 7th house or 7th lord disturbs 
marriage. 

However, Mercury is a benefic planet and as a Karka for 
intelligence is good to be in a Kendra. The wife is beautiful. If it 
does not conjoin with the Sun, she is most attractive. He is unfit for 
sex pleasures with her. Feels defeated and shy. 


118 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


Native is saintly. His wife is comely and modest blessed with 
many sons. He is sharp, handsome and dignified and his wife comes 
from an affluent family. Good-natured, luxury loving, honest and 
faithful. Blessed with wife, wealth and sons. Handsome, learned, 
gentle and respected by women. Well established and generous, 
courteous and noble. 

Wife is young and beautiful. She is intelligent, quick, eloquent, 
critical and nervous, worries and anxieties after marriage. If Mercury 
is afflicted bickering and wrangling. Legal troubles if this Mercury 
is much afflicted. 

Unafflicted and conjoined with strong planets native has one 
wife. Has best of conveyances. If 7th lord is weak or afflicted or 
is in enemy sign with Mars, wife is ugly and suffers from skin 
troubles. 

Jupiter 

High status in life. Very sensual- great pleasure from women. 
Handsome cultured, large hearted, eloquent, poet and wise. Rich 
and generous. Affectionate wife, fond of literature- charming wife. 
Noble wife blessed with sons. 

Gets a good and faithful partner making life happy and 
prosperous. Financial and social status improves after marriage. If 
well aspected success in partnership through help of friends and 
business people. Good fortune if this Jupiter is aspected by lord of 
2nd or 5th house. 

If debilitated wife dies. Afflicted marries to a divorcee or 
widow. Partner older than he is. Rahu /Ketu affliction enjoys wives 
of others. Law suits and litigation especially afflicted by Mars. 
Marriage delayed / denied if afflicted by Mars/ Saturn or luminaries. 
Jupiter weak in Virgo and Capricorn. With Jupiter in barren signs 
there is lack of male children. 

Note: Normally Jupiter in the seventh protects marriage. 
Venus 

Comely and true wife gives birth to noble sons. Gets maximum 
pleasure from his wife. Sex with lovely women. Eminent artist. 
Plenty of fans. 

The native is sensuous, and amorous living abroad. He is 


7th House 119 


handsome, blessed with sincere wife, affluent, amiable and fortunate. 

Strong Venus means more than one wife; in female chart it 
indicates a fortunate and wealthy wife. 

Venus denotes sons, wealth, and attractive cheerful happy 
and noble partner. If afflicted gives several marriages. 

Happiness, social and financial gains from marriage. Early 
marriage. Attractive. Success in public relations. Successful 
partnership. 

If afflicted hinders or delays marriage. Venus in feminine 
signs means a perfect woman. 

Fond of music, singing, writing, study and printing if Venus is 
in Aries, Gemini, Libra and Sagittarius. 

Venus in Aries, Scorpio, Capricorn and Aquarius partner older 
and of different caste. 

Saturn 

Saturn in Lagna or 7th house in ‘Pap Kartari Yoga’ - 
unconventional, under compulsion or marriage of convenience. 
Saturn, Ketu, and Venus give inter religious marriage. 

Saturn in 7th house denies charming partner, and gives 
marriage late in life. 

Is debauchee, surrounded with wicked friends, wealth through 
fraud and dishonest means. 

Ailing partner, neither strength nor wealth. Unemployed, 
unfortunate in respect of wife, home and wealth. Second marriage 
with a cripple or daughter of a friend. 

Late marriage, with a faithful steady and industrious partner 
or one older to the native, sober and wealthy. 

Afflicted Saturn will cause much grief and sorrow in married 
life with death or indifference. 

Loss of wealth through contracts, partnership, litigation and 
treachery. 

Saturn Mars: wife sexy. 

Saturn Venus- native sexy- fond of other women. 

If Leo and Sagittarius gives charming wife. 

Rahu 
Wife has infections in generative system. Separation from relatives. 
The native is short tempered, deranged, idle, wanderer. 


120 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


Hostile to partner. Trouble through partner, ugly, restless malicious, 
strife, opposition and hindrance. Menstrual problems. Depriving 
sensual pleasures. Driven to other women. 

Conceited, sensual and sick. Moon and Rahu give all pleasures 
and devoted partner. With other planets a perverse, unfaithful and 
characterless woman. Want of manhood Rahu gives maximum 
deviation in marriage and Ketu minimum. 

According to Bhavarth Ratnakar "Saturn in the second or 
Rahu in 7th gives two marriages.” It should be understood clearly 
that this would only happen when Rahu is afflicted by malefics. 
Rahu on its own or with benefics becomes harmless and may even 
give good results. 

See two horoscopes below 

Horoscope No 1: Rahu did not do any damage. 

In this horoscope even though Rahu is in the 7th from Lagna 
and 2nd from Moon, it could not do any harm to the marriage as 
Rahu is having aspect of Jupiter. Lagna lord is in its own house 
giving strength to the horoscope. 

Horoscope A : 


Horoscope B: In this horoscope the lady lost her husband at an 
early age. Rahu is afflicted by Mars but has no benefic aspect. 


7th House 121 


Ketu 
Danger from journeys and water. Want of happiness from partner 
or she is wicked. Native himself is immodest, loss of wealth, fear of 
enemies or thefts. Adulterous, deserted by partner. Ailments of 
intestines and seminal troubles. 
Ketu in Scorpio is gainful. 
Factors which give happy married life 
Parameters 
Planets/Houses Involved 
1. 7th house and planets in 7th house which is traditionally 
the house of marriage. 7th from Moon and 7th from Venus 
should also be examined. 

2. 5th house - house of romance - Purva Punya - house of 

progeny. 

3. Lagna and Lagna lord. 

4.  12thhouse - house of bed pleasures or sexual enjoyments. 
The affliction of the 12th house/lord by malefics especially 
if they are lords of six is not good. Six represents diseases, 
debt, thieves and enemies. Afflicted Saturn gives a reserved 
nature and frigidity. 
4th house - house of happiness - Sukhisthan. 
2nd house of Kutumbha (immediate family). 

Moon as Karka of mind. 

Venus - Karka of 7th house, semen. 

Mars - planet of virility. 

0. Examine Rasis Libra and Scorpio also as these represent 
7th and 8th houses in natural zodiac. 


Om NIDN 


122 


Karka 


Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


Venus is Karka for marriage, and semen. 


Mars should also be examined in case of female horoscope 


because it is Karka for sexual drive. 


Jupiter- some astrologers are of the opinion that in a female 


horoscope Jupiter represents husband. 
Examination of the 2nd, 4th, 5th, 7th and 12th Houses. 


I. 


2. 


3. 
4. 


5. 


A house to be good should have following: 

There should be aspect of benefic planets on this house. 
The house should not be afflicted by malefics. The malefic 
planets are Sun, Mars, Saturn, Rahu / Ketu. 

It should be in 'Shubh Kartari’ Yoga and should not be 
hemmed in between malefic planets. 

It should be strong in Bhavabala 

It should be strong in Ashtak Varga and should have more 
than 30 Bindus in Sarvashtak Varga. 

It should be aspected by benefics. 


Karka Venus 
Karka for marriage is Venus. According to Phala Deepika wife 


may die 
i) If Venus is sandwiched between malefics. 
ii)  Ifthere are malefics in 4, 8 and 12 from Venus. 
iii) If Venus is associated or aspected by malefics. 
"To give good results it should be strong. For Venus to be strong it 
should be 
(i) Exalted 
(ii) in its Mooltrikona sign/ own house. 


(iii) 


In Kendra Trikona: The planets in Kendra Trikona become 
strong. Venus if it is in Kendra from Lagna or Moon and is 
exalted or in its own house gives rise to Mahapurush Yoga 
known as Malviya Yoga which gives all type of happiness 
and prosperity. Venus in the first house gives handsome 
personality and romantic life. Since it aspects 7th house the 
native loves his wife. In the second house Venus gives a 
good family and a dutiful wife. It also gives sweet speech, 
which is contributory factor for marital harmony. Venus in 
the fourth gives mental happiness and in the fifth a romantic 
disposition. In the 7th it gives nuptial happiness. In nine it 
gives good luck and happiness and in ten and eleven it gives 


7th House 123 


happy and romantic marriage. In the 12th it gives sexual 
pleasures. 

(iv) Aspected by benefics. 

(v) Should be strong in Bhava Bala 

(vi) it should be strong in Ashtak Varga, having more than five 
Bindus in its Ashtak Varga. 

(vii) Should not be combust. 

(viii) Should not be hemmed in between malefics. If it is hemmed 
in between benefic planets it gives rise to Shubhkartari 

Yoga which adds to it strength. 

(ix) Should not be in 6, 8 or 12 or trik houses. 
(x) Should not be in Mrityu Bhaga. 
xi) A Vargottam Venus gives good results. 

The debilitation of Venus can be ignored if it is in Kendra 
or Trikona. Sun is the worst enemy of Venus in marital matters. If 
two are together in fiery signs (excepting Sagittarius) there are 
chances of marriage going wrong in their Dashas. 

If Venus is exalted in Navamsa it gives a dignified wife, if 
Vargottam she is cultured. 

Similarly position of Mars should be examined.A retrograde 
Mars and that which is debilitated or aspected by malefics causes 
problems in marriage. 

Examination of Navamsa 

If the Navamsa occupied by lord of seven is benefic and lord of 

seven is also associated with benefics, it shows a good and happy 

married life. 

Placement of Lagna Lord / Moon vis a vis 7th lord and Venus: 

Lagna lord and Moon should be well placed (means they should 

not be in 6, 8, and 12 position) with respect to 7th lord and Venus 

for mutual harmony otherwise there will be frustration and 

discontentment. 

Marital Discord 

Affliction to 7th house and 7th Lord creates marital 

disharmony. 

1. | Seven and five houses should not be sandwiched between 

malefics. This is a no marriage combination also. Seventh 
house is the house of marriage and 5th house is the house of 


124 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


romance, Purva Punya and progeny. Any affliction to these 
houses is not good for progeny. If the seventh house is 
afflicted by Rahu, Sun and Mars, wife is dominant and 
quarrelsome. 

2. Lord of 1 or 7 should not be in 6, 8 and 12 from each 
other. This is likely to destroy the mental harmony. Lagna 
represents the individual, 7th represents his marriage. Both 
lords should be in harmony. See the two horoscopes below: 

Lady's horoscope 


In the horoscope above Lagna lord is Venus. Lagna lord or Venus 
in this case represents herself. This is placed in the third house. 
The 7th lord is Mars which represents her husband is placed in the 
10th house. Venus and Mars are in 6 and 8 positions from each 
other. If you count from Venus, Mars is in the eight and if you count 
from Mars Venus is in the 6th. This is known as 6/8 position and 
causes disharmony. In this horoscope herself (Venus) and her 
husband Mars (7th lord) are not in harmony with each other, which 
means they will not have a happy married life or will not stay 
together. 


Note: This is one of the factors causing disharmony in married life 
and should be used with caution. 


7 th House 135 


See another horoscope. This is horoscope of a male. Lagna 
lord is Mercury which is in the fourth house. Seventh lord 
is Jupiter which is in the eleventh house. Lagna lord and 
7th lord are in 8/6 and 6/8 position from each other. This 
boy did not have a happy married life. 

Horoscope : 


It has been observed that if this combination exists in the 
horoscope, it causes disharmony in the first marriage only. 

3. Capricorn Lagna, Saturn in the first aspecting mutually 
debilitated Mars in the 7th house gives loose morals. 

4. Satur in Lagna or 7 house in Pap Kartari Yoga gives 
unconventional marriage or marriage under compulsion. This 
is so called marriage of convenience. In this there is big 
role of Saturn and Ketu over Venus. 

5. 7th lord in 6 delays marriage in women but in 8 disturbs the 
marriage or gives serious mishap. Jupiter's aspect dilutes 
but does not nullify. 

6. In Aquarius Lagna Sun is the lord of seven. It should not be 
in the 6th where it denies marriage unless favourably 
aspected and Moon strong. 

7. In case of females afflicted 5 house aspected by weak or 
seriously afflicted 5 lord causes pre-marriage extra marital 
relations, especially when 7 lord is in 12, 8 or 3 (8 from 8) in 
7th house. 

8. Lord of Lagna weak, aspected by malefics in 7, gives more 
than one wife. In its Dasha/antra may cause her death 
also. 


126 


11. 


12. 


13. 


14. 


Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


The combination of 5 and 7 lords is not good for marriage 
and. children. 


. Mars and Rahu in 8 may cause loss of husband in their 


Dashas. However. Jupiter's influence on 7th protects Ist 
Marriage. 

If lord of 7th is in 5 or 9, he will be married to a very 
fortunate lady. Though this is Raj Yoga. Kendra lord in a 
Trikona, Mantreshwar says lord of 7 in 5 makes one lose 
wife or children. 

Weak 7 lord in 9 in women's horoscope disturbs marriage. 
It may lead to divorce or judicial separation. This 
combination cancels engagement and leads to last minute 
change of groom. 

Mars in the horoscope represents sexual drive. Any 
affliction to it causes disturbance to married life. In women's 
horoscope if Mars is combust she cannot control her 
husband. 

Saturn and Venus in 8 or 10 with no benefice aspect. Or 
Venus in 10 and Saturn in Lagna or five. 

Lord of 7 combust or debilitated or with a malefic in 6 or 8 
and 12. 


Condition of Venus 
Venus is pointer to sexual life of native and kind of partner one is 
liable to get. Venus in favourable position ensures a happy married 
life. It is important that condition of Venus in a horoscope should be 
good as stated above. 

i) If Venus is betwixt malefics ie. in Pap Kartari Yoga it kills 


ii) 
iil) 
iv) 


the wife. 

Malefics in 4, 8, 12 from Venus are not good. 

According to Parasara malefics should not afflict Venus. 
Venus in Aries, Gemini, Cancer, Scorpio, is not considered 
good for happy married life. In Aries and Scorpio, the signs 
of Mars causes immoral life and loss of reputation. In 
Cancer it makes the wife over indulgent and passionate. In 
Gemini especially Navamsa she is oversexed. 


Result of Venus in different Signs 


(Since Venus represents wife also, its placement and conditions 
show the character of wife) 


11. 


12. 


7th House 127 


Venus in Aries: immoral, liaison with other women, loss of 
reputation. Immoral life further indicated if the sign is in twelve. 
With malefic influences becomes debauchee. Wife aggressive 
and cruel and has masculine tendencies. 

Aries is the male sign of Mars, a planet of aggression and 
force. Venus here is not happy and conducive to healthy sexual 
life. It gives lustful tendencies and excites carnal passions. It 
gives a wife that is haughty and quarrelsome. 

Venus in Taurus and Libra: if no malefic aspects are there 
wife is beautiful and dutiful and is fond of music and dancing. 
Venus in Gemini makes native oversexed. Many astrologers 
are of the opinion that Venus in Gemini causes a second marriage 
or disturbs married life. It may deny the satisfaction from 
children. However, wife is intelligent, learned, eloquent and 
fond of fine arts. 

Venus in Cancer: diseased body, passionate, overindulgent. 
Wife emotional and inconsistent. Person inclined to wine and 
women. : 
Venus in Leo: marriage in aristocratic family, native tries to 
please women gets benefit from them. Wife is pretty. 

Venus in Virgo: Fond of low caste women. Wife petty minded 
but learned. 

Venus in Libra: good for marital happiness. Wife beautiful 
and generous and respected. 

Venus in Scorpio: Loss of wealth due to quarrel with women. 
Wife haughty and quarrelsome. 

Venus in Sagittarius: happy domestic life. Wife frank and 
philosophical. 


. Venus in Capricorn: fond of low caste women. Wife is 


boastful. 
Venus in Aquarius: chaste in sexual habits. Wife witty and 
humanitarian. 
Venus in Pisces: good marital relations. Wife is modest and 
refined. 

Venus is benefic, amiably disposed to other planets and 


artistic, a benefic aspect between Venus and Saturn gives a sober 
wife. But if the combination is malefic is bad and ends ultimately in 
divorce. 


128 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


Benefic combination with Jupiter, wife virtuous and beautiful. 

With Sun makes her sexually active. Wife has royal tinge in 
the family. 

With Moon mood of sex and inconsistent. 

With Mercury intellectual sex. Thoughts of native colored with 
sex. Wife intelligent and young. 

Mars - Venus physical aspect of sex. Native very sexy. Wife 
haughty and youthful. 

Venus - Rahu secret love affairs. 

Venus-Ketu hypersensitive in sex. 

Rahu-Ketu under benefic influences gives a charming wife, 
though happiness in marriage is disturbed. 

These results are subject to influences of other planets. 

If afflicting planets are inimically disposed results get changed. 
If Mars afflicts, native is of loose character and wife cruel. If 
Mercury does so, he is fond of obscene literature and wife has 
confused intellect. 


Venus in Different Houses 

1st House: Native is romantic, loves his wife. If it is afflicted 
with Mars in the sign Scorpio there is physical craving and no 
refinement. 

2nd House: Good family with dutiful wife. If afflicted greedy 
for money and good food. 

3rd House: unsatisfactory wife. 

4th House: flirt if afflicted. 

5th House: Romantic, too much given to female company, 
much desire for sex and gaiety. 

Afflicted by Mars too much passionate. With Saturn or in 
square to Saturn sorrow or disappointments in love. 

6th House: Immoral. 

7th House: marital happiness but as Karka for marriage it is 
not considered good (Karka in its own Bhava destroys marriage - 
however it has been observed that this rule does not apply to Venus 
in seven unless afflicted by malefics). 

It is said that Venus as lord of seven if afflicted makes one 
nymphomaniac having uncontrolled sexual urges. 


7th House 129 


8th house: illicit relations. If Venus is in trick houses wife is 
generally ill especially if it has no benefic influence. 

9th house: domestic happiness. This is good position for Venus. 

10th house: Good marriage. 

11th House: romantic. 

12th House: fond of sexual pleasures. If afflicted it is not 
good for happy married life. 


Unhappy Marriage 
1. Sun opposition or conjunct malefics-marriage disturbed 
especially in females and if afflicting planet is 7th lord. 

2. Sun, opposition, square to Moon no harmony - if afflicted worse. 

3. Jupiter 12 to Venus might make first marriage unhappy one, 
but Jupiter in second to Venus gives capable and devoted 
husband. 

4. Role of Venus: Venus is Karka for pleasure and comfort of 
married life. With Venus in its own house one has tendency to 
be over indulgent in sex but with one partner only. 

Venus in the enemy house gives little happiness from sex and 
matriage. A debilitated Venus may give only low born person 
as a partner. 

5. Luminaries Sun and Moon are enemies of Venus . If Moon is 
second to Venus and Sun is in the 12th to Venus there is no 
pleasure from married life. 

6. Venus Mars and Rahu is a combination for elopement with 
another person. 

7. Moon Venus opposition is not considered good for happy married 
life. ’ 

8. Venus is Karka for love and sex and Moon is Karka for mind. 
Both should not be afflicted by Saturn or Mars. 


Timing Marriage 
Dashas that give Marriage are; 

According to K.N. Rao about 60 to 70 percentage of 
marriages happen in the Dasha/ Antar Dasha (concentrate on antra) 
of the lords of one, five and seven. (Check from Rasi, Navamsa 
and Saptamsa). 


130 


Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


Dasha of Rahu and Venus. 

Dasha of 7th lord or 

Planets with/aspecting 7th house/ lord. For timing marriage 
it is necessary first to ascertain as to approximate age 
group in which marriage may take place. 


Combinations for Early Marriage (earlier than 21 years) 


l. 


2; 
3. 
4 


atl 


wk wh 


Placement of benefic in the 1/7 axis. 

There are no malefics in 2/8 axis. 

Benefics are not retrograde. 

Venus is not combust. It has been observed that if Venus is 
combust in the horoscope it delays marriage even in case 
of rich and handsome persons. 

Lagna lord is strong. 

Jupiter is placed quite close lo Venus with no other planet 
intervening. 

Seven lord is in the seventh house. 

Placement of Lagna lord and 7th lord close to each other 
degree wise. 

Closeness of Lagna lord to 7th lord. 

Closeness of Lagna lord to Venus. 

Several planets in 5 house. Sun, Moon not afflicted and 
beneficially aspected. 

Sun between cusp of 10 and 7 or 4 and I houses marry 
early or with a younger person. 

Marriage earlier than 30 years of age. 

If Jupiter aspects 7th house not much delay occurs. 
Normal Age for Marriage (21 to 24 years) 

1/7 and 2/8 has only mild affliction. Sun, Rahu and Ketu 
are mild in this connection. They should not be aspected by 
malefics. 

Benefics are not retrograde. 

Venus is not combust. 

Seventh lord has malefic influence. 

There are benefics in 4/ 10 axis. In case of girls from poor 
family benefics in 4/10 axis promise wealth as fourth 
represents House of happiness (Sukhisthan). 


6, 


He 
8. 


7th House 131 


In the case of male horoscope full Moon and in case of 
females Sun are in 1 to 3 houses or 7 to 9 houses. 

Venus and other planets, more than one is in watery signs. 
Placement of full Moon in the fifth or 7th. 


Late Marriage 


CHNINDARWN we 


Strong malefics Saturn Mars in 1/7 or 2/8 houses. 
Seventh lord aspected by strong malefics and combust. 
Benefics are retrograde. 

Venus is combust. 

Horoscope has Kuja Dosha. 

12th house is not under double affliction. 

4th house is under triple affliction. 

Dara Karka is not afflicted. 

The results of 7th from Venus are important. 


Delayed Marriage 
Sun, Moon near to each other or if Sun and Moon are afflicted. 


1. 


Sun - Saturn - Saturn dominant in horoscope aversion to 
matriage, excessive caution lack of enterprise, extreme 
diffidence. 

Saturn dominant delays or denies marriage if it afflicts by 
square or opposition. 

i) In male horoscope - Venus 

ii) In female horoscope - Mars 

Lagna lord in the 12 delays marriage or marriage life is 
wrecked especially if 8th lord is in the 7th or 7th lord is in 
the 8th. 


Denial of Marriage 
Following combinations are given in the classical books, for denial 
of marriage: 


1. 
2. 


Moon and Venus under full control of Saturn. 
Combination of Saturn and Moon. This gives thirst for 
spiritualism, a Vairagya and detachment is developed and 
the mind is set to achieve salvation. One has no interest in 
marriage. In the horoscope of Swami Vivekananda. Moon 
in the tenth is conjunct with Saturn. He had higher idealism. 
Venus is combust and has the influence of Saturn. 


132 


18. 


Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


Mercury in the 7th with 12 lord and 6 lord. Mercury is 
eunuch planet and 12threpresents bed pleasures. The 6th 
lord destroys them. 

Venus with Mars and 7th lord in six or seven. One has 
many lovers and has no interest in marriage. 

It has been observed that the influence of both Sun and 
Saturn on the 7th house/lord have a great role in denying 
marriage. Placement of Sun and Saturn in 1/7 axis, in the 
1 st or 7th or both hemming in the 7th house may lead to 
denial of marriage. 

Venus in barren Rasis, Gemini, Leo and Virgo. 
Inter-planetary war in the ascendant. 

Placement of Saturn and Mars in Lagna, in sixth or eighth 
house or 7th or 7th from Navamsa Lagna destroys 
matriage. 

Seventh lord in sixth weak and debilitated. 


. Malefics in seventh or 12th house. Waning Moon in 5th or 


9th with no aspect of Jupiter. 

Venus and Moon in Venus or Moon's signs or in the 6th or 
8th house of Navamsa. 

If Venus and its dispositor are in 6/8 position and other 
factors are there girl lives like a servant in husband's house 
weeping and crying. 

Sun in Gemini with the aspect of Saturn make a girl life 
long virgin. 

7th lord, Venus and Ascendant in unfertile Rasis. 

If Venus is 43° or more from debilitated Sun aspected by 
Saturn negotiations breakdown at last minute. 

Three Lagnas, Sun, Moon and Ascendant having aspect 
of Saturn. 

Venus, Sun and Moon all afflicted by Saturn. 


Role of Mars 
On day of marriage Mars aspects natal Venus or transit Mars 
establishes relations with natal Mars. 
Planets and Remarriage 
1. Role of Dual Rasis and Venus - Mutable or dual Rasis 


have more to do with remarriage. These Rasis are Gemini 
(3), Virgo (6), Sagittarius Q), and Pisces (12), when natural 
significator of Marriage Venus is in these Rasis. When Venus 
is in dual rash and dispositor of mutable signs is exalted, 


7th House 133 


there are good chances for remarriage. 

Note: For second marriage Venus as Kalatrakarka should 
be strong in the horoscope. It should be exalted, in its own 
house, Vargottam, etc. If it is debilitated or otherwise 
afflicted second marriage does not happen. In the case of 
female horoscopes second marriage only happens if Mars 
as Karka for husbands is strong and other conditions and 
circumstances are there. In the case of 2nd marriage for 
Hindu girls predictions should be given with caution, as 
majority do not favour second marriage after death of first 
husband because of social conditions prevalent. 

See Horoscope A 


The person lost his first wife. Seventh house and seventh 
lords both are afflicted. Venus is debilitated in the Navamsa; 
therefore, second marriage did not materialize. 

2. Role of Jupiter and Venus - The influence of Jupiter and 
Venus makes a person attractive to opposite sex and leads 
to remarriage. 

3. Remarriage after death of first wife. Lagna lord in 8th, 
Mars in 7th house, Venus 7th from Moon, a person marries 
three times. 

4. Mars in the 7th house and 12th from Ascendant lord 
terminates marriage abruptly. Venus Moon opposition gives 
romantic disposition through remarriage. 

5. Powerful Mercury in 1 Oth from ascendant lord and powerful 
Moon in third from 7th lord gives many wives. 


134 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


6. 


if 
8. 


Ascendant lord in seven in birth chart and 2nd lord 
conjunct with natural malefics is not conducive to 
longevity of wife. Ascendant lord in the house of 
marriage makes a man marry after death of first wife. 
Seventh lord in 11 in dual signs. 

Sixth lord in 12 is a feature to be reckoned with. 


Re-marriage of Females : 
In these days re-marriage follows after death of first husband or 
after first unhappy marriage. The combination for re-marriage are 


2. 
3. 


4, 


5. 
Impotency 


14. 
15. 


Birth in Trimsamsa of Saturn. 

Both malefic and benefic aspects on 7th house. 

Sun and Rahu influence on 7th house/7th lord from 
Lagna or Moon. 

"Mars with Saturn and Moon in the 7th” - Phala 
Deepika. 

Retrograde Saturn as 11 lord in seven. 


Lord of 6 in Ascendant in the sign of Mercury and 
Lagna lord in sign of Mercury -Sarvarth Chintamani 

Lagna lord with Mercury. 

Saturn and Mercury in dual signs. 

Connection of Saturn and Mercury, two impotent 
planets, with Libra. 7th house or Moon, also with Venus. 
Combust Venus in males and combust Mars in females, 
Weak planet in 7, and 7 lord debilitated. 

Weak Moon. 

Saturn debilitated in 6, or 12 or in 6, and 12 in watery sign. 
Eighth house afflicted, Sun, Moon and Venus afflicted 
having connection with Virgo or 6 house. 

7 lord in 6 with Venus is known as Kalatrashanda or 
Eunuch Yoga. 


. Saturn and Venus in 8 or 10 with no benefic aspect, or 


Venus in 10 and Saturn in Lagna or five. 

Lord of 7 combust or debilitated or with a malefic in 6 
or 8 and an, afflicted planet in 7th. 

Lord of Lagna weak aspected by debilitated or 
combust planet and lord of 7 in 6 debilitated. 

Lagna, Moon and Venus in odd signs in Navamsa. 
Mars in even sign aspecting Moon and Ascendant in 
odd sign. 


7th House 135 


Mutual aspects between following planets (Jaimini aspects) 

Brihat Jatak 
a) Moon in even sign, Mercury in odd sign. 

b) Saturn in even sign and Mercury in odd sign. 

c) Sun in even sign and Mars in odd sign. 

d) Mars in even sign aspecting Moon and Ascendant in odd 
sign. 

e) Moon in even sign, Mercury in odd sign, both aspected by 

Mars. Any of these combination make native impotent and 

not the spouse. 

Marital Infidelity 

Following are the combinations garnered from various 
classical books which may lead to marital infidelity. However, before 
applying these rules it may be understood that no one combination 
can make a person immoral in sexual behaviour or steadfast in 
marital fidelity. The horoscope should be seen as a whole to arrive 
at any firm conclusion. 

Role of Venus : 

1. Venus should not be afflicted especially when it establishes a 
role with 7th house. If Venus is afflicted by Saturn the person 
does not care for moral customs and may have relations outside 
the caste. The affliction by Mars leads to uncontrolled sexual 
desires. Rahu's affliction leads to scandals. 

If Venus is in Ascendent debilitated or in interplanetary war and 
is also present in Lagna of the Navamsa the sexual desires 
become uncontrollable. 

2. Affliction of Venus by debilitated planets or planets in 
interplanetary war especially when 7th house is involved. 

3. Venus in Gemini Rasi: A large number of articles have been 
written on the role of Venus in Gemini Rasi. It is held that Venus 
in Gemini Rasi causes married unhappiness unless there is 
exchange of Rasi between Venus and Mercury. Venus in Gemini 
Navamsa gives problems after marriage and may lead to extra 
marital relations. However, it should be understood that this is a 
classical combination for artists and musicians also. 

4. Seventh eighth and ninth houses in a horoscope either from Lagna 
or from Moon should not be consequently occupied by malefics. 
This causes disturbance both before or after the marriage. 

5. Location of Saturn in 7th house in Navamsa chart gives 
unconventional marriage and also disturbs marital harmony. It 


136 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


may lead to post marriage marital infidelity. 
6. Interplanetary war between first and 7th lord is not good. 
7. In the female horoscope the placement of 7th lord in the 
9th is not considered good. It may lead to erratic sexual 
behaviour of husband. The husband may have two wives 
or have illicit relations outside marriage. It is called Saptni 
Yoga or Avaklatra Yoga. 
In female behaviour also there may be tendency to have many 
relations outside marriage if the lord is heavily afflicted. 

8. There should not be malefics in the 8th from Lagna, Moon 
or Venus. Eight is the house of sexual acts and should be 
free from affliction. 7 

9. Afflicted Mars also disturbs married life as it represents 

husband in a female chart and sexual drive in a male 
horoscope. 

10. The presence of Saturn in the 9th house is not considered 
good even when exalted or in a friendly house. It disturbs 
marriage. 

Opposition to Marriage: 

To judge whether there will be opposition to marriage always 
consult Varga chart Chathurthamsa or D/4. 

Also see Dasha scheme. If Rahu is misplaced say in 
Antardasha it is in 6, 8, and 12 from the Mahadasha lord the girl 
will run away from the house to get married. If Dasha - Antar 
Dasha lord are in Trikona reconciliation will take place. D/4 shows 
disturbance at home. In girl's horoscope check Dasha / Antar / 
patyantar at marriage and see from D/4 whether there is change in 
house or not, 4/10 house afflicted or not. 

See whether (Darakarka) is in 8th it will cause problems. In 
transit when Jupiter, Sat/Jupiter aspect Darakark time of marriage 
has come. (Jaimini aspects) 

Venus is comfortable in airy-earthy signs. Its debilitation can 
be ignored in Kendra-trikona. Sun is worst enemy in marital matters. 
Two together in fiery sign except in Sagittarius-marriage crumble 
in operating period of sub lord. Sub lord is more important. 

Lagna and Moon should be harmoniously placed from 7 / 
7 lord. 

Adverse placement of Moon or Lagna from 7/7 lord - and 
Venus are main factor for disharmony. Kendra, Trikona, 3/11 are 
good positions. 

Moon with 7/ Jlord and Venus direct or indirect association 
is cause for happy married life. 


7th House 137 


Operative period of sub lord is important- if enemy of Lagna 
or Moon and weak and afflicted contact with 7/7 lord or Venus is 
not good. - See Transit also if malefics planets are involved. 

Planets in seven-influence marriage, pay special attention to 
Lagna lord if in 7, and planets with it. 

Whatever Lagna, Sun and Moon have spiritual and mental 
base and as such are important. 

In male, Venus and Moon should not be afflicted. 

In female Saturn should not afflict Mars and Sun and Venus. 

Benefics in 9 house bring help from relations of wife. Malefics 
cause trouble. 


Mangali Dosha or Kuja Dosha 

The concept of Mangal Dosha or Kuja Dosha is the most dreaded 
and most misunderstood concept in matching the horoscopes in 
Astrology. The untrained and unskilled astrologers misuse this to 
the hilt and as a result many a parents of the prospective brides or 
grooms have sleepless nights in finding the right matches for the 
daughters and sons. As the conditions stand today, finding right 
matches for would be brides is an arduous task where women are 
paraded like cattle for the scrutiny of would be bridegrooms. As it 
is, the parents of the girls have difficult time in finding right matches 
for the daughters, the concept of Kuja Dosha compounds the 
problem by restricting the choice, thus adding to their miseries. As 
a result they have sometime to falsify the horoscopes thus 
compounding the problems and making. It still worse. 


It is very interesting to note that classical texts on Jyotish 
hardly make a reference to the Kuja Dosha. They only make a 
passing reference to results of Mars in different houses. 

What is Kuja / Mangali Dosha 

Kuja or Mangal is another name for Mars, the most malefic planet 
in the horoscope. It is said that if it is located in houses 2nd, 12th, 
4th, 7th and 8th house in the horoscope of a girl it will lead to the 
death of the husband or if it is in the horoscope of a male it will kill 
his wife. The basis for this is following Sanskrit Shloka: 


Dhanvyaye or patale jamitre or ashtame kuja: 
Strinma bhartri vinashach bhartarunam strivishanam 


which means if Mars is in the 2nd, 12th, 4th, 7th and 8th house in 
the horoscope of a female, the death of the husband will occur. 


138 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


Similarly placed in husband's horoscope leads to death of wife." 
Some scholars are of the opinion that 1st house should also be 
included because from here Mars aspects the 7th house. 
These houses have to be judged from 1) Lagna, 2) Moon (it is 
alternate Lagna and represents mind and 3) Venus, as Venus is the 
Karka for sex. 

The Dosha is strongest from Venus, little less strong from 
Moon and least strong from Lagna. 


Why these houses : 
1. Mars in the Ist House: it is bad because from here it aspects 
the 7th house of marriage, the fourth house of mental peace and 
eighth house of longevity of marriage (as it is 2nd from 7th, the 
house of marriage). 
2. Mars in the 2nd House: The second house represents 
Kutumba or family. From here it also aspects the eight and hence it 
is bad for longevity of marriage. 
3. Mars in the 4th House: Fourth rules domestic happiness or 
peace of mind, from here it aspects 7th house. 
4. Mars in the 7th House: The 7th house represents house of 
marriage, or husband/wife. 
According to Phala Deepika with Mars in the 7th, person wanders 
on roads and loses his wife. 
According to Saravalli the subject's wife dies, he will be unhappy 
and leads a sinful life. 
5. Mars in the 8th: Eight represents longevity of husband or wife. 
It is also house of 'Mangalaya’ (Saubhagya). 
Mars in the eighth house has been universally condemned in the 
astrological literature. It is supposed to give following results 
i) It is said to effect the longevity of the person or the spouse. 
ii) Accidents, injuries to the person may happen. 
iit) One gets hindrances in all walks of life. It is said that well 
placed planets in Kendras and Trikonas are not able to give full 
effect because of the placement of the Mars in the eighth. 
Exceptions : 
1) For Kanya (Virgo) Lagna Mars in its own house gives a 
long life. 


7th House 139 


2) For Mesha (Aries) Lagna. Mars again gives long life. 

3) For Mithun (Gemini) it is exalted and again gives long life. 
However, according to K.N. Rao. Mars in the 8th also gives 
landed property, being significator of land in the house of 
inheritance. 

ii) It gives some additional source of money (fair or unfair means) 

iii) There is some injury or accident. 

iv) In married life it gives some problem relating to health of self, 
spouse or children. 

6. The 12th represents Say anna Sukha, pleasures of bed or 
sexual enjoyments. Mars from here aspects the 7th house of 
marriage. 

Therefore, the placement of Mars in these houses is detrimental to 

the spouse and hence is known as Kuja Dosha. 


Cancellation of Kuja Dosha. 

i) It is believed that if such a Dosha is found in both the 
horoscopes of bride and bridegroom the Dosha gets cancelled. 

ii) If one of them has Mars in Lagna, the 2nd, 4th, 7th, 8th or 12th, 
and the other Saturn, Rahu or Ketu in any one of the above 
houses then too the defects gets cancelled. 

iii) It is also believed that this Dosha does not operate after 28 
years of life. 

Unfortunately, the family Pundits attach too much importance to 

this one factor in matching of horoscopes whereas there are many 

other negative or positive factors to be assessed before an 

announcement is made about the compatibility . It has been observed 

that in hundreds of horoscopes there is no kuja Dosha yet the 

marriages have broken down or spouses have died. Similarly there 

are horoscopes where Kuja Dosha is present yet the couples have 

had long happy married life. 

What is important is that horoscope should be seen in totality and 

other factors for a happy marriage life should be assessed. For 

example in choosing the match for a girl the emphasis in the 

horoscope of would be bridegroom should be 

1) He should have a long life 

2) He should be able to financially support the family. 

3) He should be of sound morals 

4) Married life should be happy 


140 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


Similarly for choosing a bride the emphasis should be on 

i) High morality and good looks. 

ii) Behaviour and capacity for adjustment. 

iii) Happy married life. 

iv) Belief in religion and traditional values. 

v) Ability to look after children and give them fine upbringing. 

vi) Long, disease free life. 

While matching horoscopes the basic astrological principles must 

be kept in view. These are 

ry) Benefics in Kendras and Trikona are good and promote 
happiness. They also give long life. 

ii) Malefics in 3, 6 or 11 promote happiness by lending strength 
to the horoscope, keeping in check the manifestation of 
negative factors. 

Dr. B.V Raman's view as given in his book "Electional Astrology” 

is quoted here for guidance. 

"Granting that Kuja Dosham is a factor whose occurrence should 

not be ignored, there are antidotes which are not generally known 

to the rank and File of Hindu Astrologers.” The exceptions as stated 
by him are: 

1. In the 2nd house Mars is not bad in the signs of Mercury that 

is Gemini and Virgo. 

2. In the 4th Mars does not give rise to. "Mangal Dosha’ in its 
own signs Aries or Scorpio. 

3. Inthe 7th Mars does not give any Dosha in the signs of Cancer 
and Capricorn. 

4. In the 8th it does not give rise to Dosha in the signs of Jupiter 
Le. Sagittarius or Pisces. 

5. In the 12th house there is no Dosha in the signs of Venus i.e. 
Taurus or Libra. 

6. According to him there is no Kuja Dosha in the sign Leo or 
Aquarius. And Dosha is counteracted by the conjunction of 
Mars and Jupiter or Mars and Moon. 

7. Mars does not confer Dosha, if it is exalted or is in its own 
house or its exaltation Navamsa. It is harmless in Cancer or 
Leo. 

‘Shantis' to be prescribed: Many shantis or remedial measures 

are prescribed for 'Manglik’ Girls especially of Ashtam Mangal. 

These are Kumbh Vivah. Savitri and 'Mangal Gauri Vats". These 


7th House 141 


should be performed under proper guidance. 
Let us test these rules by giving some examples 


Examples: From an article by K.N. Rao - Journal of Astrology 
April-June 1998. 


Husband's Horoscope 


KX 


Main Features 

1. There is a clear case of Kuja Dosha. Mars is in the 4th with 
Rahu aspected by Saturn. 

2. 7th lord Jupiter is in enemy Rasi heavily afflicted. 

3. Moon has exalted Saturn in the 7th. The 7th lord Venus is in 
enemy Rasi, which is also a barren sign. 


142 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


4. In Navamsa 7th lord Saturn in the 6th aspect by 6th lord 
Jupiter. 

Wife's Horoscope : 

1. Like husband Mars in the 4th house is in enemy Rasi. 

2. 7th lord afflicted but receives aspect of Jupiter. 

3. From Moon 7th lord is Moon not afflicted. 

4. In Navamsa 7th house is aspected by its own lord Jupiter. 
Dosha - Samya or Balancing of Doshas : 

The Mars producing kuja Dosha in the 4th house in the husband's 


horoscope is balanced by placement of Mars in the wife's house 
also. 


Wife's horoscope 


7th House 13 


Unpleasant Results of Mars in the 4th house : 

1. All classical books have condemned Mars in the 4th house 
unless it is exalted or in its own house when it gives rise to 
Mahapurusha (Ruchaka) Yoga. It destroys domestic happiness. 

2. It is the strongest negative factor of a horoscope. It hinders 
the flow of other effects or good Yogas. 


3. There is no happiness from friends. 

4. Nagging financial troubles, bad house to live in which may catch 
fire. 

5. Is cruel, lacks in gratitude, is troublesome to parents and is in 
debt. 


The horoscopes were matched properly, there was no death of 
spouse. The marriage lasted even after 20 years of marriage. 
Though the defects were cancelled out, yet the marriage was not 
happy. The husband says wife is mentally unbalanced (see fifth 
house). They had a bitter and acrimonious married life with all charm 
of married life missing and eventually decided to separate and live 
apart. 

Conclusion: It has been a very unhappy marriage. Mars in the 
4th house of both (cancelling Dosha) has given them sufficiently 
long married life. But it has been married life with all bitterness and 
quarrels because the 7th house/lords are also afflicted. 


Example 2 
Kew, Moon ; 
Venus 
ll 


Husband : 


Ketu 

Moon 

Venus Husband 

Lagna 
Sun Rah 
Mer 


(i= 
POO DO 


144 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


Wife 

1. In the horoscope of wife. Mars is in the 8th house and there is 
clear mangal Dosha. 

2. Saturn in the horoscope of the husband is in Dhanu, where 
wife’s Mars is placed with two other planets, Sun and 6th lord 
Venus. 

3. After a long marriage she decided to leave her husband as 
according to her he was mentally unfit. 


Case III 
Maneka Gandhi wife of Sanjay Gandhi, She lost her husband at a 
young age. 


Sanjay Gandhi Dec 14, 1946, 9:27 AM Delhi, 2nd son of Indira 
Gandhi, late Prime Minister of India. 
Most powerful person of his time, died 23.6.1980. 


7th House 145 


Main Features : 


Maneka Gandhi, wife of Sanjay Gandhi, has kuja Dosha with Mars 
in the 8th. In her husband's horoscope; Mars is in 12 technically 
cancelling Kuja Dosha. It did not, because in her horoscope 7th 
lord Saturn is afflicted also by being in Rahu/Ketu axis. 
Sanjay Gandhi had a short span of life because 
i) Lagna lord Saturn was retrograde in the 7th aspected by Mars. 
ii) Moreover Moon in the eight is not good for longevity. 
iii) The 8th lord of longevity Sun is in the 11 house with 6th lord 
Mercury with Ketu behind it and Mars ahead. 
He died in an air crash on 23rd June 1980 at the age of 35. 


146 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 
Matching of Horoscopes for Marriage 


Before matching of the horoscopes it is necessary that both 
horoscopes of the girl and boy be individually examined as regards 
7th and 8th house. In this particular emphasis should be given to the 
role of Venus, the Karka for marriage and Mars the significator of 
energy, force or sexual drive. It is also necessary to examine 4th 
house for mental peace and happiness and 5th house for ability to 
procure children. Many a marriages are floundered for lack of 
children. Horoscopes should also be scrutinized for a healthy and 
long life his horoscope is good for earning decent amount of money 
to be able to support the family. 


In brief following points should be observed in individual 
horoscopes: 

1. Seventh house and seventh lords should be free from major 
afflictions. 

Venus should not be afflicted. 

Fourth house, the house of happiness should be strong. 
There should not be major affliction to the 5th house. 
Horoscopes should be matched for Kuja Dosha. 

In male horoscope it is necessary that he should have good 
earning capacity. 


AUNWRwWhd 


Traditional Matching: 

There are 8 factors to be considered for judgment of suitability of 
couples. The total points allotted are 36 out of which it is considered 
necessary to score minimum of 18 gunas or points. 

Kuta Milan or traditional matching of horoscope is based on natal 
Moon of boy and girl. And eight Kutas or factors are involved. 


1. Varna: Points allotted - 1 

This represents degree of spiritual development in the couple. 
Twelve Rasis are classified into four categories. Rasis 4 (Cancer), 
8 (Scorpio) and 12 (Pisces)are Brahmins. Rasi 1 (Aries), 5 (Leo) 
and 9 (Sagittarius) are Kashatryas and 2 (Taurus), 6 (Virgo) and 


7th House 147 


10 are Vaishya and 3 (Gemini), 7(Libra) 11 (Aquarius) are Shudras. 
Brahmin is highest Varna, then Kashatryas, then Vaish and last 
Shudras 

Varna of boy should be equal to or superior to that of girl. For this 
1 point is given. 

In case of girl marrying a boy of superior Varna - no point is given. 


2. Vashya: means within control 

Manush signs are human. These are Gemini or Mithun, Virgo or 
Kanya, Libra or Tula, first half Sagittarius or Dhanu, and Aquarius 
or Kumbha. 

Chatuspad or quadruped: Aries(Mesha), Taurus (Vrishabha), 2nd 
half of Saggitarius (Dhannu) first half of Capricom (Makar). 
Jalachar Rasis are Cancer, 2nd half Capricorn, and Pisces. 
Leo(Simha) and Scorpio (Vrischik) have no group 

If boy and girl are from same group it is ideal and gets 2 marks. 
For Human Boy - Girl Human 2, Chatuspad 1, Jalachar 1%, 
Simha 0, Vrischik 1. 

Chatuspad Boy - Girl Chatuspad 2, Human 0, Jalachar |, Leo 0, 
Vrischik 1. 

Jalachar Boy - Girl Jalachar 2, Human 0, Chatuspad 1, Leo 0, 
Scorpio 1. 

Leo Boy - Girl Leo 2, Human 4%, Chatuspad '%, Jalachar 1, 
Scorpio 0. 

Scorpio Boy - Girl Scorpio 2, Human 0, Chatuspad 1, Jalachar 1, 
Leo 0. 


3. Tara: Count from boys’ Nakshatra to bride's Nakshatra,, divide 
by 9, if remainder is 3,5, 7, it is malefic otherwise benefic. Give 1- 
¥2 one and one half 

Now count from girls Nakshatra to boy's Nakshatra, divide by 9 if 
remainder 3, 5, 7, itis malefic otherwise benefic. Give one plus one 
half for benefic. 

If both benefic result 3, ifone benefic other malefic one plus 1/2/ 
Other cases no point. 


148 


4. 


Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


Yoni 
Nakshatrs have been allotted Yonis of animal 


Yoni Bitter Enemy ‘ Yoni 

1. Ashwani, Satabhisha. Horse Buffalo 
2. Swat, Hasta Buffalo Horse 
3. Dhanishta Lion Elephant 
4, Bharani, Revati Elephant Lion 

5. Pushy a Kritika Ram, Monkey 
6. Sharavan, Pashadha Monkey Ram 

7. Uttarashadha, Abhijit Nakula Serpent 
8. Rohini, Mrigsira Serpent Nakula 
9. Jyeshta, Anuradha Deer Dog 

10. Moola, Ardra Dog Deer 
11. Punarvasu, Ashlesha Cat Rat 

12. Magha, Porva Phalguni Rat Cat 

13. Vishakjha, Chitra Tiger Cow 
14. Uttarbhadra, Uttarphalguni Cow Tiger 


If Yonis are the same, 4 points are given, if friend 3, neutral 2, 
enemies 1, high enemies 0. 


4. Graha Maitri Friedship of Rasi lords 


Planets Friends Neutrals Enemies 

Sun Moon, Mars, Jup Mer Saturn, Venus 
Moon Sun, Mer Rest None 

Mars Mon, Sun, Jup Venus, Sat Mercury 
Mercury Sun, Venus Jup, Sat Mar Moon 

Venus Mer, Sat Jup, Ma Sun, Mon 
Saturn Mer, Ven Jup Sun, Mon, Mar 


If lords of boy Rasi and girl Rasi lords are same - 5 marks 


One friend, other neutral (Saturn, Mercury) 4 marks 
Both neutral (Jupiter, Sat) 3 marks 
One friend, one enemy (Mon, Mer) Y, 
Others 0 


Navamsha lords of Rasis should also be considered. 


7th House 149 


6. Ganas 
In this there are three categories, Deva, Manusha or Nar, Rakshas 
Deva Guna: These are nine Nakshatras and are Anuradha, 
Punarvasu, Mrigsira, Shravan, Revati, Swati, Hasta, Ashvini and 
Pushya. 

Nara Guna: Poorva Phalguni, Poorva Ashada, Poorvabhadra, 
Uttarphalguni, Uttarashada, Uttarabhadra, Rohini, Bharani and 
Ardra. ' 

Rakshasa: Magha, Ashlesha, Dhanishta, Jyeshta, Moola, 
Satabhisha, Krittika, Chitra 
Same gana Full 

Boy Deva, girl Nara 

Boy Rakshasa, bride Deva 
Remaining 


OF ND 


7.  Bhakoota 

Check position of Janam Rasis (Rasi - where Moon is located) of 

each horoscope 

If they are located in 2/12, 6/8, 5/9 it is malefic and no point is given. 

In other cases full 7 poits should be given. 

Other points 

1. Ifboth have same Janam Rasi it is benefic provided both are 
in different Nakshatras. If they are in same Nakshatras they 
should not be in same Charnas. 

2. 2/12 position; should be avoided Where bride is second from 
boy it is malefic. In 12 from boy it is not considered malefic. 

3. For Rasis Taurus Gemini, 2, 3 - Cancer Leo 4, 5, - Virgo 
Libra 6, 7 -, Scorpio Sagittarius 8, 9,- Capricorn Aquarius 10, 
11 - Pisces, Aries 12, 1, 2/12 position not bad as Rasi lord are 
friends. 

4. 3/11/position is benefic 

5. 4/10 is benefic and gets full 7 marks but in 2, 5 - 4, 7, - 6, 9, 
- 8, 11- 10, 1, 12, 3 positions are malefic as Rasi lord are 
enemies. It is said to cause poverty. 

5/9 (Position - Nav Pancham Dosha, even though Rasi lords are 

friends. position is bad. 

If Girl's Rasi is 5th from Boy it is bad as may give children problems 

but 14 is not so bad. 


150 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


6/ 8 position is called Shad Ashtak and is bad as Rasi lords are 
enemies, but if like in Aries Scorpio, In Gemini / Capricorn, Cancer 
/ Aquarius, Rasi lords are friends or same position is not so bad. 
6/8 position causes disease and death. 

1/7 position is good and gets 7 points. 

Except in Cancer / Capricorn, Leo and Aquarius. 
Malefic Bhakkoota lose maleficience if 

1. Rasi lords are friends. 

2. Proper Nadi has been matched. 

3. Navamsha's lords are friends. 

4. Both horoscopes have benefic Tara. 

5. | Vashya and Nadi matching is present. 

For ready reference use chart on next page. 


8. Nadi: Matching 

There are three Nadis, 1. Aadi 2. Madhya and 3. Antya 

i) Aadi Nadi has Nakshatras Ashvini, Ardra, Punarvasu, U Phalguni, 
Hasta, Jyeshta, Moola, Satabhisha, Poorva Bhadarpad 

ii)Madhya Nadi: Nakshatras are Bharni, Mrigsira, Pushya, P Phalguni, 
Chitra, Anuradha, Poorvaashada, Dhanishta, Uttarabhadrapad. 
iii)Antya Nadi has Nakshatras Krittika, Rohini, Ashlesha, Magha, 
Swati, Vishakha, Uttar Ashadha, Shravan and Revati. 

Boy and girl should not belong to same Nadi. If they belong to 
different Nadis give 8 points. 


If bride belongs to Bharni Nakshatra and boy belongs to Chitra 
Nakshatra it is same Nadi and is called Nadi Dosha 

Exceptions: If boy and girl have same Janam Rasi but different 
Nakshatra there is no Nadi Dosha. Example both have their Moon 
in Gemini, one is born in Ardra Nakshatra but other is born in 
Punarvasu Nakshatra, hence there is no Nadi Dosha. 

In case both are born in same Nakshatra but different Rasi, still 
there is no Nadi Dosha For example both are born in Krittika 
Nakshatra, but one is born in Aries Rasi and other in Taurus - 
hence there is no Nadi Dosha. Krittika, one in Aries other in Taurus 
no Dosha. 


111) Both may be born in same Nakshatra but in different Charnas 
even then there is no Nadi Dosha. 


7th House 151 


Boy's Nakshatra immediately after girl's Nakshatra is considered 
inauspicious, For example boy's Nakshatra is Pushya whereas girl's 
Nakshatra is Punarvasu. 

This matching is not enough. 


1. 
2. 


at 


One should see longevity of both from their individual charts 
See also Longevity from each other chart. Any combination 
for widowhood in one’s chart must have a similar combination 
in other chart which will cancel out the Dosha 

Examine in both the horoscopes houses 2,4, 5,7 and 12Twelfth 
house for pleasures of the bed. 

Dasha in both charts are important and must be analyzed. 
Kootas should be analyzed in the end only. 

Match house wise Dosha. If Mars is in the 7th house of a 
horoscope, it is important that it should be in the 7th in other 
horoscope also. 


Marriage - Destructive Nakshatras 

Dr. Raman in his book MuhUrata says "It is common belief that 
girls born under the influence of certain destructive Nakshatras 
bring out the death of certain relatives of husband." 


l. 


For example girl born in Jupiter's Nakshatra Vaishakha Libra 
(3) and Scorpio (1) brings destruction of husband's younger 
brother, so an effort is made to find a groom who has no 
younger brother. Even when the horoscope is good it is rejected 
on this ground. 

However, it should be noticed that only last quarter of Vaishakha 
is evil and not the other three Padas. 

Birth in Moola and death of father-in-law: Boy or girl in 
the first quarter of Moola Nakshatra (in Sagittarius Rasi) is 
supposed to cause death of father-in-law. But birth in last three 
quarters of Moola is beneficial. 

Birth of a girl in Ashlesha (Cancer Rasi) is supposed to cause 
death of mother-in-law. It should be noted that only first quarter 
is bad. 

Girl born in Jyeshta is supposed to cause death of elder brother 
of husband. Again only first quarter is bad. 


From first column downwards find the birth Nakshatra of girl. From that point horizontally trace boy's Nakshatra. This gives you total point. 
MATCHING OF HOROSCOPE FOR MARRIAGE 


a 
2 
= 
ie 
i= 
= 


Punarvasu 


Punarvasu 
Pusyami 
Aslesha 


IK}23 18 10] 18 


sanhiuysa], usapoyp ysnosyy adoososoy Suisqpup 


MATCHING OF HOROSCOPE FOR MARRIAGE 


= 
= 


= 
Ne 


Moola 
Poorvashadha 
Uttarshadha 


Uttarshadha 
Sravana 
Dhanishta 


Dhanishta 
Satabhisha 
Poorvabhadra 


Poorvabhadra 
Uttarbhadra 
Revati 


Ponarvasu 3 


Punarvasu | 


P.Phalguni 4 


Anuradha 4 


Poorvashadha 4] © 
Uitarshadha 1 


Utearshadha 3 


Dhanishta 2 
Dhanishta 2 


Satabhisha 4 


Poorvadhadra 3 


Poorvadhadra 1 


Ultarbhadra 4 


nN 
= 


nN 
Ww 


asnoH] YjZ 


Chapter VII 
Eighth House 


(House of Longevity, Sudden Gains and Humiliation) 


The eighth house of Ayu or Mrityu deals with 
1. Longevity. 
Misfortunes. 
Debts. 
Sins. 
Intrigues and scandals. 
Enmity. 
Death, sudden and untimely, cause of death, total 
destruction. 
8. Difficulties, impediments, grief, unhappiness from sins 
committed in past births. 
9. Calamities, Stealing. 
10. Secret enemies. 
11. As 2nd from 7th, shows earning of wife. 
12. Obstacles. 
13. According to sage Sattyacharya, this also deals with 
enemies. 
14. Accusations, intrigues and scandals. 
15. Interest in occult sciences. 
16. Diseases of secret parts and generative system. 
If 8th lord aspects its own house and also 1 1thhouse it 
gives victory over rivals. 
Eighth house rules longevity or duration of matriage. 
Cluster of planet in 8 especially benefics give much wealth 
8th forms part of Adhi Yoga. 
In female chart 8th house tells about her sexual activity. 
Afflicted Moon in sign of Saturn is not good for morals. 
Dasha connected with 8th lord/house brings change. 
"Whenever, 8th lord is stronger than Lagna and the 10th 
lords, native is subject to scandal or disgrace”. - R Laxmanan 
8th lord in different Houses 
The placement of 8th lord in any house excepting its own house 


NANA WN 


Sth House 155 


does not give good results. It is basically a lord of hindrances. 
Eighth lord with Markesh in any house causes death accident. In 
malefic houses 3, 6, 8 and 12 this could mean self created death or 
suicide. Even in malefic Rasis/ houses this could mean suicide. 
1st House 

According to Parasara 8th lord in the first makes health suffer, 
gives wounds and makes a person detractor of gods and Brahmins. 
It also gives (i) poverty (ii) debt (iii) bad health and (iv) displeasure 
of govt. superiors. 

This rule does not apply to Aries and Libra Ascendants where 
lord of eight and Lagna are the same. In Aries it is Mars and in 
Libra it is Venus. The lords of eight in these cases will not damage 
the house but will give good results like health of the native will be 
good, he will have legacies and a long life. Similarly in Pisces 
Ascendant, the eighth lord Venus will be exalted in the first House 
and the person will be rich, handsome with a commanding 
personality and long life. 

Strong eight lord in Ascendant gives long life. 
2nd House 
He will have problems of eye, tooth. Will have no time to eat good 
food. According to Parasara he will be devoid of physical vigour 
and will possess little wealth and will not regain lost wealth. But 
eight lord in two will be aspecting its own house the eight and 
hence in that case will give inheritance, hidden wealth and long 
life. 

This position is not good for family life where the wife and 
children will be separated in case other factors are there. 
3rd House 
Third is 8lh from 8th ie. in the third house it is very conducive to 
long life. But aspect of 8th lord on 9th may ruin the prospects of 
father as aspects of 8th or 6th lord carries dangerous implications. 
Native may have Enmity with his father, problem with brothers 
fears, and mental anguish. According to Parasara he will be devoid 
of vigour and will have no servants. 
4th House 
Will cause problems for mother. May be he is devoid of mother or 
his mother does not have good health. There will be no finances 
and peace of mind. It will be a problem to have a house, lands or 
conveyances. Vehicles will be stolen or there might be accidents. 
Will be betrayed by friends. 


156 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


Fifth House 
According to Parasara native will be dull witted. He will have few 
children and be long-lived and wealthy. 

Commenting on this Girish Chand Sharma in Brihat Parasara 
Hora Shastra says 

"That the native having this combination will be prompted 
to study history, ancient languages like Greek, Latin, or Sanskrit 
because the eighth house is the house of dead objects and the fifth 
house is the house of education. In Gemini and Virgo Ascendants, 
the 8th lord being placed in the 5th house will be in his sign of 
exaltation. In the Leo and Aquarius Ascendants, the 8th lord, being 
placed in the 5th house, will be in his own sign. Therefore, benefic 
effects will be gained in these Ascendants, in Pisces Ascendant 
this combination makes the native a mining engineer." 
6th House 


In case the 8th lord is placed in the 6th house, the native will win 
over his opponents, will have a diseased body and in childhood he 
will face danger through snakes and water. 

The danger of snakes will be potent if Rahu is also involved, 
as Rahu is Karka for snakes. In modern times snakes could also 
mean poison or poisonous drugs. The persons who die of wrong 
administration of drugs have this combination. 
7th House 
Native will have two wives and if it is in conjunction with a malefic 
there will certainly be loss in his trade. 

It is not clear as to the meaning of two wives. In modem 
times it is not possible to have more than one wife. Most probably 
this will apply after the death of first wife or after having divorced 
first wife. Since the 8th lord spoils the significance of 7th house it 
certainly means the first marriage is on the rocks. 

This is also a combination for separation or divorce. "In 
the ending of any marriage the role of 8th house or planet in 
the 8th is well known" - K.N. Rao 
8th House 
Will be long lived. If the 8th lord is weak, the longevity will be 
medium and the native will be a thief, be blameworthy himself and 
will blame others as well. 
9th House 
Native will be betrayer of his religion and a heterodox, he will be 
the husband of a wicked wife and will steal others wealth. 


Sth House 157 


10th House 

Lack of paternal bliss, will be a talebearer and be bereft of livelihood. 
These predictions should not be given if there is a benefic aspect. 
11th House 

Will be devoid of wealth, be miserable in boyhood but happy in later 
life. Conjunction of 8th lord with benefics will give a long life. 
12th House 

If the 8th lord is situated in the 12th house, the native will squander 
his wealth on evil deeds, be short lived, more so if it is in conjunction 
with a malefic planet. 

Planets in 8th House 

Phala Deepika. "If malefics tenant Trikas from any Bhava they 
destroy the Bhava in question. If they are benefics their benevolence 
is much reduced.” 

Sun 

This is not the good position for natural significator of soul to be. He 
is crafty impostor and lewd. His life is hard and difficult. Travels 
widely and associates with low women. Eats unscrupulously. 
Squanders his wealth on women and by thefts. Secret vice brings 
infectious diseases and poor health. Neither can he make other 
people's life happy, nor his own. Meets with sudden death. 

The native is handsome, indolent, prodigal, spendthrift, travels 
wide and is quarrelsome. Weak eyesight, has few children, violent 
sick and hard working. Early death. Wandering aimlessly without 
food and business. Legacy from superiors. 

Diseases: piles, sudden death due to heat, fever, bile or 
weapon, the father of the native dies. In a female chart husband 
may die first, vice versa, in a male chart. 

Wife or husband spend thrift. If in sign Aquarius inheritance. 
Same results in Taurus. In Leo extravagant. 

Moon 

Fear of chronic diseases and strong enemies. kings, thieves. In a 
malefic sign makes one short lived. If in own sign or of Venus or 
Sagittarius or of Mercury suffering from asthma, eye diseases, chills, 
rheumatism and epilepsy. Indigestion, hernia, j aundice, piles, diabetes, 
dysentery and blood poisoning. Intelligent, of charitable nature, 
imposing personality and jovial. In Cancer and own sign native is 
long lived. 

Moon as a Protector: Moon protects life if birth is during 
the day and Moon is in dark half or if birth is in the night and the 
Moon is in bright half. The Sun should not be within 30 degrees 


158 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


either side of the Moon. 

Short Life and Mode of Death: Moon in the last day of 
the dark half or too close to Sun gives short life. 

It indicates death in public place, by drowning, shipwreck, 
road accident, public calamity. Separation from family members 
due to wife. 

If well aspected inheritance from women or from mother's 
family. Tendency of occultism is heightened -gives psychic powers. 
Is a great yogi, and devotee if Moon is in Aquarius. Gemini, Libra 
or Cancer. 

In Aries, Leo and Sagittarius inherits great wealth. 

Mars 

This is not a good position for Mars. Officers with Mars in the eight 
take lot of bribe and are not caught. In women's horoscope it may 
mean death of husband as it is 8th from 7th. According to Chamatkar 
Chintamani if Mars is in Lagna, other benefics like lupiter or Venus 
placed in the house of fortune become ineffective. Friends become 
enemies, all efforts become useless. Even brothers and sisters 
behave like enemies. Gives misfortune in business. 

Mars in the 8th house indicates violent or sudden death. In 
watery signs death by drowning, in fiery signs death by fire or 
violence, in airy signs death by mental affliction or accidental air 
journey. 

Diseases; In eight it gives incurable diseases, vulgar speech, 
venereal diseases, disorders of blood and ulcers. Leper, ugly and 
viscious. Biliousness, kidney, bladder trouble if Mars is in malefic 
sign or is aspected by malefics. Initially glutton, later on indigestion, 
malaria, hemiplegia and blood pressure. 

If Mars is aspected by Sun. Moon and Satur it gives a 
short life. Well placed Mars gives success in Hatha Yoga and makes 
one a politician. 

Mercury 

Mercury gives wealth and fame; it is part of Adhi Yoga. It gives 
longevity, good reputation and wealth. He is famous for his qualities, 
liked by women. If the Sun is in the vicinity of Mercury enjoys royal 
favours and public reputation. Truth loving, honours the guests and 
has a distinguished personality. Gets wealth from the state. Famous 
and rich. Has land and property. End is peaceful. 

Afflicted ungrateful, vicious, sexy, liar and ailing. In female 
chart worries due to financial difficulties with husband and partners. 
Inclined to occult sciences, literature and higher things of life. 


8th House 159 


Diseases given by Mercury: Afflicted by Mars and 
Saturn it gives brain or nervous disorders. Acute pain in thigh or 
stomach. Short life if debilitated or in enemy sign. 

Jupiter 

Asura Yoga 

Whenever Jupiter or for that matter Venus or both occupy the eight, 
the Yoga known as Asura Yoga is cause. 

Result: One becomes mean, talebearer, will spoil other's 
work, and will be self-interested. He will be head-strong, do vile 
acts and will become miserable. Yoga is more malefic when planet 
is debilitated or retrograde. 

He will be unhappy, generous and long lived (benefic in 8th 
give long life). May do ignoble things, but pretends to be noble. 
Suffers from colitis. Has peaceful death. 

Horoscope 1 
Jupiter is in 8th. 8th Lord Mars is stronger than Lagna lord Mercury. 
Lady had an immoral life. Jupiter as 7th lord is afflicted. 


FEMALE 


Horoscope 2 

However, Jupiter as spiritual planet in 8th Moksha Trikona can be 
extremely good for yogic practice and achieving immortality, as 
horoscope of Adhishankar Acharya shows : 


160 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


Sun 
Mars Mer Moun 
Ven 
| Adhi Shankar 
= ee = 


Venus 

As a natural benefic its position in eight is not good excepting a 
benefic in the house of longevity gives a long life and as a benefic 
its aspect on 2nd house of wealth is good, where it also forms part 
of adhi Yoga. But as Karka for marriage its relegation to eight is not 
beneficial for a happy married life. Venus afflicted by Saturn may 
cause impotency and unclean habits. 

Favourable: long life, fortune through cattle and attendants. 
Prosperous and rich as its aspects 2nd, profit after hard effort, gain 
and loss by turn and delayed victory. Land lord. 

Pays off his father's debts, death in a holy place. 

Unfavourable: Unpleasant speech, mean and unbecoming action. 
Sick, quarrelsome and poor. If afflicted kidney problem, diabetes, 
obesity or urinary problem and sexual diseases. Death of marriage 
partner. In Gemini or Scorpio strife with wife and children. In Aries 
or Virgo misfortunes during marriage, financial and economic crisis. 
Drug addiction in Cancer, Leo and Pisces or Scorpio. 
Venus-Rahu in Aries in Kendra to Mars gives death due to 
malignancy. (See horoscope of Nargis Dutt). 

Saturn 

As a natural malefic it is not good in the 8th house. Its aspect on 
tenth is not good for profession, on 2nd is not good for wealth and 
on 5th is not good for progeny. But as Ayush Karka Saturn in the 
&th gives long life. 

Suffers great loss of wealth, sudden separation from own people. 
Perverse minded lazy, glutton and miser. Few children, weak eyesight, 
loss of wealth and health. 

Lives in a foreign land. 


8th House 161 


Saturn in own signs or well aspected denotes a long life, natural 
death in old age. Gain by marriage or through business partnership 
or legacy. 

Afflicted Saturn denies all these and causes many disappointments. 
It gives slow lingering death due to some chronic or long-standing 
ailments. Fatal accident, death by drowning if in watery sign and 
causes financial difficulties. 

Saturn Sun - Unfortunate, vicious, discontented, boils and other 
skin troubles, poor health and short lived. 

Rahu 

Hot headed, undiplomatic and unrefined. With Rahu in 8th much 
unpopular with the bosses. Gains some wealth from the government 
and loses it. Journey to foreign countries. 

Disease: Gastritis, diseases of generative organs, hydrocele. Much 
trouble and suffering. 

Short lived, stomach problems and the diseases that cannot be cured 
and diagnosed. 

Well-placed Rahu gives honour and fame from the ruler, noble by 
deed and thought, healthy, and cattle wealth. Happy in old age. 
Ketu 

Favourable: In Scorpio, Virgo Aries or Gemini - Gain of wealth 
from government, brilliant in games, in his job by character and 
happiness. Brave industrious and long lived. 

Unfavourable: Difficulty in return of advances given as loan, short- 
lived, separation from friends, strife, arm-wound, much opposition. 
Danger from conveyance. 

Diseases: Piles and fistula, suffers from secret diseases of face 
and teeth. 


Chapter IX 
Ninth House 


House of Dharma, Father and Long Journey 


The name given to 9th house is Bhagyasthan and Dharma which 
means place of fortune and religion. As such this house deals with: 
1. Fortune, prosperity. 
2. Righteousness, preceptor (teacher, Guru). 
3. Father, grand children. 

Western astrology treats 10th house as the house of father 
as it is opposite to the fourth which is house of mother. However, in 
Hindu astrology 9th house is the house of Guru as well as father. In 
ancient India father was the Guru as such 9th house is being treated 
as house of father. Observations have also shown that treating 9th 
house for father gives better results. However, longevity of the 
father may be seen from the 10th house as it is 2nd from nine. 

4. Intuition and forethought. 

5. Dharma, religion, sympathy, godliness, places of worship. 

6. Fame, charities, leadership. 

7. Long journeys and foreign travel. Purva Punya. 

8. Metaphysical studies, law, philosophy, science and 

literature. 

9. Lasting fame, charities, leadership. 

10. Imagination. 

11. Higher education. 

12. Knees. 
Lord of Nine in various Houses 
1st House 
Strong: This is a good combination as lord ofa trikona is in kendra 
and forms a Raj Yoga. Makes a person fortunate, virtuous, 
charming, learned, and popular. In case of females it makes her a 
worthy housewife. 
With Lagna lord gives all kinds of riches. If with benefics, gets 
authority, power, top position in government. Own as well as get 
paternal property. Famous, generous and powerful. 
Weak: or in 6, 8. or 12 from Navamsa Lagna gives poverty. 
With Rahu service under foreign government or service on 
deputation. 
With Mars high rank in police or armed services. 
Satum as ninth lord gives law, history etc. as subject of study. 


9th House 163 


Mercury as 9th lord is also banker- according to some astrologers 
this does not apply to Scorpio Lagna. 

2nd House ‘ 

Strong: Scholar, dear to all, wealthy, sensuous, happiness from wife 
and sons. 

With 2nd lord much wealth through family business. Luxurious life, 
good food. 

Weak: With malefics inheritance dwindle-family litigation. 

With 2nd and 8th lord humiliation, disgrace. 

Second is a Marka house or house of death, as such this denotes 
period of death at proper age. 

3rd House 

Happiness from brothers, wealthy, virtuous and charming. 

With 3rd lord brothers prosper. Flair for writing on religion and 
spirituality. Music, music instruments, travel abroad, holy places. 
With Saturn foreign land, service under foreigner. 

If in Navamsa 9 lord is in 6, 8 or 12, results are moderate. 

Weak: Weak 9th lord or with malefics writings are not good, which 
may land him in trouble. Father's wealth disappears. 

4th House 

If the lord is benefic or strong this is a good combination of a Trikona 
and Kendra and gives a Raj Yoga with all kinds of happiness and 
luxuries, houses, conveyances much wealth. It is good combination 
for mother who is prosperous and long lived. Devoted to mother. 
With the 4th lord happy or learned. With Venus many conveyances 
or land. If exalted, ruler or President. With Mercury head of learning 
institute. 

Weak or Afflicted Ninth lord: May cause problems for mother 
and her happiness especially when Rahu is there. Problems from 
father. 

5th House 

Strong 9th lord: Sons, prosperity, devoted to elders, bold, charitable, 
learned. 

With 5th lord, scholar, financial and other help from father. 
Distinguished children. Prosperous father. Sons famous and prosper. 
This is good combination for higher learning and famous literary 
achievements. 

Weak or Afflicted 9th lord: Problems for father or children, fortune 
not good, obstacles in education. 


164 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


6th House 

Strong 9th Lord: Becomes a judge or judicial officer. With benefics 
ears well and prospers injob. Father's health improves. Many 
servants. With Mars inherits landed property. With Mercury royalty 
of books, Jupiter gives immense wealth through learning. 

Weak 9th Lord: Aspects of malefics not good for father. Huge 
debts, litigation also. Meager prosperity, no happiness from maternal 
relatives, troubled by enemies. 

7th House 

Strong: Happiness after marriage, virtuous, famous. With the 7th 
lord wealth in foreign land, goes abroad on diplomatic assignment. 
Birth is in rich prosperous family. Luxuries and comforts. Very 
popular with other sex. May go abroad and settle there. 

With Mars gives landed property abroad. 

With Venus wealth through women. Noble and rich wife, wealth 
after marriage. 

Weak: Not well disposed to father or father's health not good. 
Might cause problems in matriage. 

8th House 

Strong: Gets inheritance and sudden gains. Does researches and 
gets inner meaning of life. 

Weak: Hindrances and obstacles in life. Not prosperous, no 
happiness from elder brothers, or father. Obstacles in inheritance 
by patrimony. 

With eighth lord and benefics father dies, leaves fortune, Malefics 
give opposite results inheriting debt and liabilities. Death of wife 
and good money. 

Ninth lord in the 8th could also mean a person becoming adopted 
son."See the horoscope of Narsimha Rao, ex Prime Minister of 
India, whose 9th lord Venus is in the 8th under Rahu Ketu axis. 
Loses money, wanders aimlessly. 

9th House 

Good fortune, virtue, beauty, happiness from co-born. 

Rich, properties, father and brother are great help, mother well off, 
nurtured by maternal grand parents. 

With the 9th lord, very lucky, good-natured wife. Travel abroad. 
Will be prosperous in father's business. Great wealth. 

If Sun with benefics wins elections and politician. Well known for 


9th House 165 


” | Sun 
vy si ) Murs 
CAL Mer 


statesmanship. 


Narsimba Rio | 


28-6 1971 
1:20 PM ES 


If Rahu is there father becomes famous in foreign land. 

Saturn and Mars affliction makes one sinful. If only Saturn afflicts 
it gives stomach complaints. Sun, Moon, combination causes loss 
of limbs and death of parents. Jupiter here makes one pious and 
dutiful towards parents. 

10th House 

Strong: This is a good combination of Kendra and Trikona and 
gives Dharm Karam Adhipati Yoga. This is Yoga of prosperity and 
high rank especially if tenth lord is also there. Makes one king, 
virtuous, dear to all. Is a minister or army chief. Becomes renowned 
for learning. Has great career. Does charitable deeds. Very Wealthy. 
Weak or Afflicted: loses job, earns bad name, illegal and shady 
deals, unrighteous life. Loses property, is punished by rulers. 

11th House 

Strong: Good for gains, devoted to elders, virtuous, meritorious. 
With 11thlord prosperous in family business. Moon in watery sign 
gives professions like fish, pearls, travelling etc. 

With Mercury or Jupiter gains through publication, books, 
newspapers, and educational institutions. 

With Venus income from, hotels, cinemas, restaurants. 

Afflicted 

By Rahu, Saturn, Mandi wealth through prostitution or unfair means. 
Friends become enemies and deprive him of wealth. 


166 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


In 12th House 

With the 12thlord becomes a great moralist or spiritualist, because 
9th is house of Dharma and 12th is of Moksha. 12th is 4th from 9th 
as such it is also Guru's Ashram. Many foreigners who come to 
India to stay in Guru's Ashram have this combination. 

Afflicted: Causes loss of fortune, spends on auspicious acts and 
loses money. 

Loss of father or living away from him. Afflicted loses money 
through bad investment. Thefts or dacoity if Mars is there. 

With 6th, 8th and 9th lord in 12, loses ancestral land and property. 
“Mahatmas inclined to leave their bodies in the sub-periods or sub- 
sub-periods of 9th or 12 lords’ - K.N. Rao. 

Planets in the Ninth House 

The Sun 

Well placed Sun gives dutiful son having regard for spiritual values. 
Happiness from sons. 

Afflicted with Moon or Venus gives eye trouble or trouble with 
government. 

Moon 

Wealthy, generous, romantic, fond of reading, high education. 
Humanitarian, fame, success. Popular and lauded. Success from 
early youth. 

Beautiful wife, obedient sons, wealth, noble deeds, holy pilgrimage 
and good fortune. Handsome and popular. Religious and charitable, 
learned virtuous, will construct temples and ‘Dharamshalas’. 
Foreign travel and sea voyages. 

Moon of fiery and watery signs makes native a writer, publisher or 
printer. 

Afflicted Moon does not give good results, poor fortune, foolish and 
without character. 

Saturn-Mars-Mercury-Moon 

Raj Yoga - makes a person king. 

Moon-Mars 

Accident to mother - Chander Mangal Yoga 

Moon-Venus 

Immoral wife, writer, poet, artist. 


9th House 167 


Moon-Saturn 
Mental suffering. Visits abroad. Has movable property. 
Mars 


Generous, famous, rich and powerful. Exalted in its own sign, or 
with benefics good fortune, smart, and bold. Reformer with a modem 
outlook, destroys orthodox beliefs. 

Mars in its own house gives a Raj Yoga, gets royal favour, wealth 
and fame. 

Mars otherwise is a malefic planet. It destroys fortune, is not good 
for father, is irreligious. trouble from poison and fire. 

Mars in the signs of Mercury. Venus or Saturn gives wife of a 
different caste or her nature is different. 

With Jupiter or Mercury, learned in religion and spiritual life. 
Harsh, rude, not good for father. Relation with brother not good. 
Mars-Venus 

Two wives, foreign residence. 

Mars- Saturn 

Does not believe in religion. 

Mercury 

Very intelligent and rich. Philosopher - scientific bend of mind. 
Science, inventions, discoveries, music, popular. Polite, God fearing 
and fortunate. Ascetic, noble and meditative like Buddha. 
Religious, learned, truth loving devoted to father, charitable, holy 
pilgrimage, eloquent speaker, wealthy and fortunate. Love for art, 
science and learning. Gains through journey. 

In Gemini, Libra and Aquarius, luck and promotion after marriage, 
editor, publisher, writer, teacher. 

In fiery signs, mathematics, astrologer. 

In earthy sign businessman or his clerk. 

In watery signs, clerk in post telegraph department or in government 
job. 

In movable signs love of journey. 

In airy signs interested in aerial affairs. 

Has active mind, exploring hidden mysteries of life and interested 
in metaphysics. 

With malefic aspects is vicious, against Vedic scriptures 
but industrious. Fickle mind. Engaged in too many-things at a time 
and not been able to complete a single project. Worry, anxiety, 


168 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


Mercury-Venus 

Fond of music and pleasures. 

Mercury-Jupiter 

Witty and wise. 

Travel abroad for lectures. 

Relation with father good. 

Jupiter 

With benefic planets very wealthy and has much immovable 
property. Religious, charitable, intellectual. Good relations with father. 
Moon-Mars-Jupiter 

High post in armed forces or police. 

Jupiter-Venus-Sun 

Has no character. 

Jupiter-Saturn 

Is a good combination for leading a spiritual life. He would be a 
man of principle and may lead a life of lecturer or preacher in 
foreign country. 

Venus 

Generally very lucky in life, has family, wealth and children. Love 
for poetry, and arts. 

Venus - Sun 

Speech good, but bad health. 

Venus-Saturn 

Diplomat, or service under the government. 

Venus - Sun - Moon 

Loss of wealth due to misunderstanding with women. 
Venus-Sun-Saturn : 

Criminal tendencies. May face conviction. Character not good. 
Saturn 

Lonely life, may not marry, Brave, law, miser but rich. Ungrateful 
to parents. 

Saturn - Sun 

Differences with father and children. 

Saturn Mercury 

Rich but deceitful, irreligious and does unconventional things. Not 
good for father. 

Rahu 

Nagging and domineering wife, impolite. miser. loose morals. Hates 


9th House 169 


his father and reviles God and religion. Wealthy and famous, domestic 
unhappiness. Adultry, rude suffering to parents. (In all trines and 
angles and in Uppachaya houses 3, 6, 10, 11 gives good results. In 
signs Aries, Taurus, Cancer, Virgo and Aquarius coinciding with angles 
and trines highest position, honour, fame and riches) 
Rahu in 9th house makes one proficient in at least one foreign 
language. 
(Many professors of English have strong Saturn and Rahu. They 
are authority on English literature). 
Ketu 
Short tempered, haughty, arrogant, gets upset over small matters, 
does not have good relation with parents. 
Good wife and children - saves money. 
Importance of Bhagya Karta. Dispositor of Lord of 9th. If it is 
well disposed also takes the individual to great heights. 
A favourable Bhagyapati in Kendra or Kona lifts a" person from 
ordinary to great success. 
Ninth lord in 8 can be bad only if 9th Bhava is also weak - Bhavarth 
Ratnakar. 
Ninth house represents fortune as well as religion. Luck is linked 
with religion. Good prayers remove misfortunes. 
Combinations for Rich Father. 
According to Parasara, father is rich if 
1. 9th lord is strong Venus is in 9th and Jupiter is in Kendra. 
2. 9th Lord in Kendra with respect to Jupiter, makes father 
a king. 
3. 9th lord in 10th, while 10th lord with benefic, rich and 
famous father. 
Devoted to Father 
9th lord in 11, exalted Sun, virtuous and devoted to father, 
Sun in Trikona, 9th lord in 7 in conjunction with or aspected by 
Jupiter. 
Enmity with Father 
Ascendant lord in 9 with lord of six - father contemptible. 
Good Fortune 
Interchange between 2 and 9. 
Venus exalted with 9th lord and Saturn in 3rd. 
9th lord in Kendra, Jupiter in 9. 
9th lord in 9th and Mercury exalted. 


170 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


Poverty 
1. 10th and 3rd lords weak. 9th lord combust or debilitated. 
2. Rahu in 9 from 9 ie. 5, and its dispositor in 8th, and 9th lord 

in fall. 
3. Ascendant lord debilitated. Saturn in 9th from Moon. 

Early Death of Father 

Sun is significator for father for day birth, while Saturn is treated as 

significator for father for night birth. 

1. If Sun is aspected by Mars and Saturn in case of a day birth it 
soon leads to death of father. This rule does not apply if there 
are benefic aspects. This will be more likely if houses involved 
are 9th or 10th. 

2. The child's father and paternal grand father will die early if 
Sun is in the ascendant with Mars and Saturn without benefic 
aspect of Mercury, Jupiter and Venus - Phala Deepika. 

If Sun is hemmed between two malefics or is conjoined with malefics 

one born in day time loses his father early. This may also happens if 

Sun has Mars and Saturn in the 8th without benefic influence. 

In the case of night birth if the 8th from Saturn is occupied by Mars 

and Rahu or Sun it is not good for the longevity of father. Hence 8th 

from Sun for the day birth and 8th from Saturn for night birth should 
be free from malefic influences. 

If the Sun/Saturn is in movable Rasi the father may die from poison 

or weapons. He may also be away at the time of birth of child. 


Chapter X 


Tenth House 


House of Karma, Honour and Fame 


The tenth house is Karamasthan and deals with: 

1. Means of livelihood, profession. 

2. Rank, authority, command. 

3. Fame, if lord of ten is strong, tenth house has aspect of 
benefic planets or is hemmed in by benefits, one becomes 
famous and has good reputation. Malefic planets here give 
ill repute and make profession suffer. 

4. Honours and titles from the ruler. 

5. Pilgrimage. 

6. Reputation and responsibilities. 

According to Uttarkalamitra tenth house also deals with 
i) Work with the government. 

ii) Teachers. 

iii) Great religious merit. Influence of Jupiter and Mercury 

and Lagna lord strong - one does meritorious deeds. 

iv) Chanting of sacred spells and mantras. 

v) Acquisition of full power over mantras. 

vi) Medicines. 

vii) Thighs. 

viii) Authority using a seal means gazetted rank. 

ix) Influence, self control. 

x) Adopted son. 

xi) Sleep is disturbed with malefic aspects. 
In Western astrology 1 Oh house is house of father as it is opposite 
to fourth, the house of mother. However, in Vedic astrology generally 
the 9th house is treated for father as 9th house is House of Guru 
and in ancient times father was Guru. Sage Parasara treats 9th 
house as house of father. But since 10th is second or ‘Marka’ for 
9th sometimes father's longevity is also seen from 10th house. 
Lord of ten in various houses : 
In the Ist House, 
Rises high in life. Selfemployed or high ranking officer. 


172 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


Combination with Lagna lord in 1 st - very famous and inventor. 
In the 2nd House 

Rich, family trade. 

Restaurant business. May be banking profession. 

Affliction causes losses in business. 

In the 3rd House 

Business involving travel, writing, or business with brothers. 

In the 4th House 

It aspects its own house. Lucky, high rank, famous and well 
educated. Business in agriculture or property. Income from land. If 
9th lord also combines, highly fortunate and high political rank. 

In the 5th House 

It is a good Raj Yoga. With benefics pious and pure life, highly 
intelligent. Good academic achievements. Gives an efficient mind 
and dignified position. But as the 5th is 8th from ten, it gives difference 
of opinion with bosses. With aspect of Mars the arguments become 
bitter. May be working under government. 

In the 6th House 

Profession relating to judiciary, law, prisons or hospitals. 

Afflicted causes disgrace in career, quarrels, litigation, imprisonment. 
In the 7th House 

Tenth lord in 7 gives one a working wife. Benefic planets here 
mean handsome personality. With Venus one gets wealth, as Venus 
is Lakshmi. If this combination is also with 9th lord it may give rich 
father. 

Diplomatic service, travels abroad, and helps from partner. 
Afflicted 7th lord means illicit sexual relations. According to Parasara 
if 1 Oth lord is malefic and is with Saturn and Mars one is given to 
sexual pleasures and is only involved in material interests of life and 
is immoral. 

In the 8th House 

Breaks in career. Combination with 8th lord deteriorates profession. 
Benefics give high rank for short while. 

Since it is 11 to tenth house some astrologers are of the opinion that 
the support of this house is necessary for achieving high rank. 
With malefic aspect one gets criminal tendencies. 

According to Parasara the placement of 10th lord in 8th with Rahu 


10th House 173 


makes a person hate people (anti-social). He is an idiot and a 
performer of evil deeds. Person will be involved in anti social 
activities as smuggling, defalcation, theft, bribery etc. 

(This may also show profession like leather, shoe industry, life 
insurance and mining industry). 

According to Parasara interchange of 10th and 8th lord together 
with a malefic leads one to do evil deeds. 

If there is aspect of Jupiter on the 8th house one may become 
mystic. 

In the 9th House 

Good combination for spiritualism, especially if Jupiter is also 
involved. Dutiful son, charitable deeds, extremely fortunate. 

In the 10th House 

Great success in career if not afflicted, otherwise vacillating mind. 
Aspect of four planets leads to life of a Sanyasi. 

In the 11th House 

10th lords in 11 gain from profession and business. Conjunction of 
10th and 1 1th lords may mean income through business. Many friends, 
rich. 

Afflictions cause betrayal by friends. 

In the 12th House 

Job abroad or at a distant place. Spiritualist. 

Afflicted cause separation from family - smuggling and unlawful 
activities. Cheat and a criminal. 10 lord in Pisces, watery sign and 
2nd lord Venus watery planet, profession from water. Offshore, 
water naval engineer. 

Lord of ten with twelfth lord ruins the profession. 

Debilitated 10th Lord 

According to Parasara if 10th lord is debilitated and both the 10th 
house and 10th from 10th or 7th house are occupied by malefic 
planets the native will indulge in wicked deeds. 

Effect of Lord of different Houses in the 10th House 
Parasara has given effect of lord of various houses in the 10th 
house. These are of a general nature but may be taken as guide 
line. 

Lord of Lagna in the 10th House 

Famous, respected, earns money through his own effort. Happiness 
through father. 


174 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


Lord of 2nd in the 10th House: passionate, proud, learned and 
much wealth. 

Lord of 3rd in the 10th House: Money by own effort, gain through 
trade. Brothers famous - help from brothers. 

According to sage Satyacharya presence of 3rd lord in tenth 
especially in signs of Mercury or Venus (Gemini, Virgo, Taurus and 
Libra) make the native a singer or an actor or an instrumentalist 
(involvement of Mars) or a dancer. (The angular position of 3rd 
lord usually gives artistic talents depending upon other factors). In 
the horoscope of Nargis Dutt famous actress, the 3rd lord Moon is 
in the 10th house. Of course there are other Yogas also. According 
to Maan Sagri ‘Jupiter, Mercury and Sun in Lagna make one expert 
in art and poetry. (Angular position of third lord in 1 Oth gives artistic 
talent if other factors warrant). 

If afflicted brothers cause obstacles in career. 

Nargis Dutt 


xX 
nox 


Lord of 4th in the 10th House: Happiness of all kinds, virtuous, 
devoted to gods. Name and fame through lands and learning. 
Lord of 5th in the 10th House: It is a Raj Yoga, great learning, 
good profession, famous and well known. Minister, great yogi. 
Lord of 6th in the 10th House: Not devoted to father, happiness 
in foreign land. 

Sinful vocation, profession suffers. 

Lord of 7th in the 10th House: Wealthy, righteous, meritorious 
deeds. 


10th House 175 


Good and respectful wife, job in foreign land. Go from place to 
place for job. 

Lord of 8th in the 10th House: Miserly, jobless, no happiness 
from father. 

Lord of 9th in the 10th House: This is Raj Yoga. Virtuous, rich, 
minister, and high rank, charitable deeds. 

Lord of 10th in the 10th House: brave, courageous, noble 
deeds. Honest, happy life devoted to elders. Honest, speaks truth. 
Panch Mahapurush Yoga. 

Lord of 11th in the 10th House: Virtuous, devoted to duties, 
liked by the king, intelligent, truthful. Gains from trade, Yajnas, and 
religious services. 

Lord of 12th in the 10th House: Taxes, fines, little happiness 
from father. 

Planets in the 10th House 

The 10th is the most powerful Kendra. Strong planets lift here a 
person to dizzy heights. Benefic planets make a person noble, 
generous and charitable. A benefic in the 1 Oth from Lagna or Moon 
gives rise to Amala Yoga, the Yoga of nobility and prosperity. 
According to Phala Deepika when a benefic planet is placed in the 
10th house or if the lord of 10th house is placed in Kendra or 
Trikona in its own sign or sign of exaltation, or when lord of Lagna 
is in the 10th house one becomes very famous and does meritorious 
deeds. 

Sun 

Sun in the 10th has directional strength. It is good for profession 
and vocational success. However, as a natural malefic it may cause 
separation from parents. Tenth is sixth from fifth house, placement 
of a malefic here is not good for children. 

If Sun is strong i.e. is exalted, is in its own sign is good for achieving 
fame, wealth, education, honours. One is brave, is generous, has 
love of music and art. Is kind and generous. Does service to saints. 
Has power and authority and high moral standard. Does charitable 
work, constructs tanks, ponds, wells and temples. One gets patronage 
of high placed men. It also shows popularity with the government. 
According to Western astrology he has a responsible post and lives 
with honour and dignity. It may also mean service with government. 
According to Phala Deepika the person will have sons, vehicles, 


176 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


intelligence, wealth, strength and fame. He will be much praised. 
Varahamihira says that the person will lead a happy life and will be 
very courageous and powerful. As Sun is Karka for health, person 
will enjoy good health also. 

Sun - Mercury - Venus gives rise to Vaishnava Yoga. If not afflicted 
and in a good house raises a person to great spiritual heights. Adi 
Shankar Acharya, Ramanuj Acharya, Tulsidas, Vivekananda and 
Aurobindo Ghosh had this Yoga. 

See the horoscope of Ramanuj Acharya below. 

Ramanuj Acharya 4.4.1917; 11:59 AM. 


In Rukmini Arundale's horoscope Sun is in the 1 Oth in the spiritual 
Aquarius sign aspecting its own 4th house (throne of the king) 
Rukmini Arundale 29:()2: 1904, AM, Madurai 


Ru&rnini 
Arandale ; 


Debilitated Sun is not good for parents. 
If Sun is exalted or in its own house it gives excellent results 


10th House MI 


Lordship is also important. If it is lord of 9, as in Sagittarius Lagna, 
then as lord of 9 in 10 it makes a Raj Yoga called "Kshetra Simhasan 
Yoga." 

Moon 

According to Phala Deepika with Moon in the 10th house a person 
gets success. He does good acts, is helpful and virtuous. 

According to Varahamihira Moon in the 10th gives all kinds of 
success, makes one charitable, rich and courageous. 

Well Placed: Gives public recognition and popularity. He is 
prominent, travels a lot, (especially in movable Rasis) is intelligent, 
noble and kind. If lord of tenis strong does noble deeds. Is devoted 
to his parents. 

Moon is a quick moving planet and is a watery planet. This 
may indicate lot of voyages and travel to foreign countries. 

Moon aspected by benefics brings success to the native 
wherever he lays his hands upon. 

Goes on pilgrimage to holy places. 

In Mahatma Gandhi's horoscope Moon is in the 10th in its 
own sign with Rahu, having 7 Bindus in the Ashtak Varga of Moon 
and making a strong Gajkesari Yoga. He was an epitome of nobility 
and had an unparalleled reputation and popularity. 

With Moon in the 10th one is much respected and held in 
popular esteem. 

Swami Vivekananda had Moon with Saturn in the 10th. This 
is Yoga for spiritualism. Swami Savanna also had Moon in the 10th. 
Horoscope of Mahatma Gandhi 
Mahatma Gandhi 2nd October 1869, 8:35 AM 


Mahatma 


Gandhi 
2nd Get. 1869 


178 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


Afflicted Moon in the 10th house causes cough and cold. Under 
malefic influences public scandal and obstacles in business. 

Mars 

(In the 10th house Mars gets directional strength.) 

Strong: Exalted, in its own house it gives rise to Mahapurush Yoga 
named Ruchaka Yoga. According to Phala Deepika person born in 
this Yoga will be full of courage and powerful. He will conquer his 
enemies and will be arrogant. He will be famous, and successful. 
He will be commander of an army. 

In Cancer and Leo Lagna it is Raj Yoga Karka. High status, prince. 
Under influence of Jupiter gets untold wealth, land, conveyance 
and prosperity. 

Weak Mars: Accident, fire, weapons, If in enemy sign father 
dies. 

Extravagant vicious, unworthy sons. 

Mars-Moon if afflicted a person is cold and selfish. Impulsive, mind 
not rational dominated by forceful side of nature. Merciless wicked 
and full of courage. 

Mercury 

If it is exalted or in its own house in a Kendra it makes Mahapurush. 
Yoga, combination for prosperity, This Yoga is known as Bhadra 
Yoga. According to Phala Deepika,” person will be long lived. He 
will be intelligent, will be clean (clean in mind means pure thoughts 
and body), praised by learned men, very rich and prosperous and 
eloquent in speech." 

Results: Rich, politician, has inheritance and property. Brave, 
handsome, intelligent, scholar of art, science, well known, jovial. 
Higher intellectual activities. Success from the beginning of any 
undertaking. Truth loving, courteous, lustful and luxury loving. 
Jupiter 

Lives in a magnificent abode adorned with banners. A celebrity, 
religious, in company with Brahmins who recite Veda Mantras day 
and night. Glorious, recognized by the ruler, of noble conduct and 
renowned, generous and fair. 

The native is with State Emblem, best of conveyances, friends, 
sons, women and wealth. Glorious and conqueror. 

Successful from the beginning, righteous, dutiful, wealth through 
father if with Sun, from the mother if with Moon, from a friend if 
Mercury and from an enemy if Mars and from a servant if Saturn. 


179 


Jupiter gives lot of wealth if in Lagna, four or ten. 

Virtuous, lofty and ideal, religious, humble, performs good deeds, 
skilled, truth loving, once he starts a job finishes it to the end. An 
intellectual giant. Name, fame and favours of superiors, dignified 
status. Noble birth, gain through superiors. Secure and important 
positions in life. 

Venus 

Wealthy liked by women. Rich, religious, fortunate. 

Pleasure, plenty of sex, wise, charming attractive. Have 
conveyances, jewellery. Performs many Yajnas, senior officer in 
government. 

Love for art and music. Blessed with parents and happy home, 
honours. 

Artistic, refined, luxury, beauty and amusements. 

Absence of progeny if Venus is in masculine sign or in Pisces. 

In masculine sign, likes to remain a bachelor, averse for women. 
Trouble through wife or children. Second marriage also indicates 
particularly in Pisces. Early death of parents. 

In feminine signs luck after marriage. One or two sons. 
Afflicted: Unnatural relations with women, loss of wealth and 
fame. Good aspect of Jupiter. Sun, Jupiter or Moon indicates social 
distinction, honours, and financial success. 

Saturn 

Well Placed: Royal status, happy, noble, minister, polite, courteous. 
A senior district officer. Interested in agriculture. Maintains status 
in foreign land. Fearless and proud. Political leader - (Neta). 

In Pisces takes to Sanyas. 

In unfavourable sign adversity after success. Financial setbacks 
for businessmen, dishonour, defeats. 

ILL Placed: Death of parents in childhood. A hard life. Vile, poor 
and Fickle. Setback, demotion, suspension, termination, 
imprisonment, chronic diseases. Father and son cannot progress 
under same roof. 

Rahu 

Exalted, the person is ruler, has immovable property. In Pisces 
sensual, extravagant, killer of enemies. 

Loves and sex with widows and wicked women. Pleasure in the 
company of most beautiful women. Intoxication, living in company 


180 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


of foreigners. Thief, characterless, dishonest, chattering, trouble 
through father. 


Ketu 


In signs of Mars, Aries and Scorpio, Taurus or Virgo kills enemies, 
intelligent, strong, self-realization. 

Of Pisces or Sagittarius, greatest honours and recognition, wise, 
living in foreign land, many victories. Fortune in foreign lands, if 
movable signs, happy and affluent. Not favourable for business. 
Loss of reputation through fraud, treachery, unfavourable public or 
market conditions, failures, changes or depression. Diseases of 
rectum, lowly habits and deeds, adulterous. Injury in thigh through 
conveyance, if of Virgo. 


Study of Signs on the 10th House 

Fiery Signs 

Engineering, steel and iron industries, engines, and locomotives. 
Mars plus Moon in Aries in 10th automobiles. 

Mars Mercury - mechanical engineer. 

Airy Signs 

Intellectual, philosopher, writers, thinkers, science and research, 
pilots, air hostesses. 

Mercury and Rahu - engineer. 

Mercury aspecting Moon makes one a writer. 

Earthy Signs 

Practical people. Administration, economics, building, mining, 
agriculture, estate agencies. Construction, writing. 

Watery Signs 

Liquids, chemistry, biology, dairy, alcohol, shipping. 

Aries 

Enterprise, dynamism and energy. 

Mars in 10thin Aries aspected by Moon, job relating to automobiles. 
Mars-Mercury mechanical engineer. 

Exploration, courage, army, police, engineers, dentists. 

Aries head brain surgery. 

Mercury-Jupiter writer, journalist, lawyers. 
Sun-industrialist, politician. 

Mars-explorer, officers of law enforcement. 


10th House 181 


Taurus 

Practical people, determination, perseverance. 

As 2nd sign of Zodiac deals with Finances, cosmetics and jewellery, 
Moon-singers, Mars-Moon agriculture. 

Gemini 

This is the sign of Mercury and deals with intellectuals; activities. 
Gives professions like writers, literary men, agents, engineers, 
printing, journals, and accountants. 

Cancer: It is watery sign, gives professions like water supply, 
import-export, navy, fisheries, water tanks, sailors. Owners of 
restaurants, nurses, antique dealers. 

Give imagination and exposure to public life. 

Leo: Fiery Sign, government, mint, medicines, gold mines; stock 
exchange forests, hills, palaces. 

It is the fifth sign of the zodiac, as such deals with amusements, 
gambling dens, race course, dancing halls and playgrounds. 
Virgo: Mathematics, teachers, writer, engineer, books, letter, printing, 
and journal education. Artistic temperament. Taste for art and 
literature. 

Libra: Lord is Venus who is significator for art, music, cotton, jute, 
textiles. 

Soap, silver, sugar. 

Judges, gardens, furniture. 

It is airy sign as such it denotes airline offices, musicians. 
Scorpio: Chemicals, medical department, insurance, tea, coffee, 
and druggists. 

As watery signs naval officers, chemists, dealers in oil and spirits. 
Sagittarius: It is warlike and fiery sign as such could mean 
profession related to war and fireworks. 

It is sign of Jupiter and is part of "Dharma Trikona’. Temple, priests, 
trustees. 

Jupiter is significator for wealth as such it deals with banking 
treasury. 

Jupiter is preachers, therefore, can mean professions like teaching 
and preaching. 

Lawyers, priests and advisors. 

Capricorn: Mines, coal, plumbing, iron smith, and low services 


182 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


like watchmen. 
Political Agents and Ministers. 
Aquarius: Scientific pursuits, research works, inventions, atomic 
energy and electricity. 
Pisces: Watery sign ruled by Jupiter. Fishery, sea products, foreign 
trade , oil. Fishery department, foreign travels. Liquid, foreign trade, 
oil, rivers. Trade, court, priests bankers, professors, and navigation. 
Karkas for the 10th House, Sun, Saturn, Jupiter, Mercury. 
High Position in Society 
1. If { Oth lord from Lagna, Sun and Moon are inter-related. 
2. Sun in 10 exalted or own house. 
3. Benefics in 2nd, 10 and 11 - financially very well off 
4. Presence of Raj Yogas in the horoscope and their operative 
period, especially combination of Kendra Trikona lords. 
Mahabhagya Yoga, Rasi Parivartan Yoga, Neech Bhanga 
Raj Yoga and Vipreet Raj Yogas. 
5. Use of Jamini Astrology - Saturn or Mercury in 10th from 
Karkamsa Lagna are fame givers. 
Qualities of Leadership : 
A Leader has: Physical, mental and intellectual abilities. 
Lagna shows physical strength while 
Moon represents mental abilities. 
Sun - is success and glory and 
Mercury - is intellect 
Mercury or Moon receiving evil aspects of Rahu and Saturn 
show lack of strength of mind to be an effective leader or executive. 
Important Nadi Thumb Rules: These are the thumb rule and 
have their limitations. 
1. Venus in 2nd to Saturn gives prosperity after marriage. 
2. Jupiter 2nd to Saturn conjunct, aspect, career at coveted level. 
3. If there is no planet between Jupiter and Saturn the road to 
success is smooth. 
4. Rahu 2nd from Saturn - start at lower level, struggle at initial 
stages. 
5. Ketu in 2nd from Saturn pulls back - good for spiritualism 
6. Moon 2nd from Saturn, or associated aspected - work in foreign 
country, brewery, poetry, religion, literature. 


10th House 183 


7. Saturn - Mars - Rahu, no job satisfaction irrespective of grade 
- struggle at early stages of life. 

8. Saturn - Rahu - Mars engineer in factory, hard work. 

9. Combination of 9 and 10th lords is a major Raj Yoga. 

10. Rahu can give extraordinary Yoga for high rise in political 
sphere. 

11. If Amatya Karka aspects 10th house, in its Dasha gives Raj 
Yoga. 

12. Mars Vargottam gives royalty. 


Role of Education and Modern Professions 

In the competitive world of today the high academic career becomes 
sine qua non of a good and lucrative profession. Before a judgement 
is pronounced on the profession it becomes necessary to determine 
the academic background and achievements of the person 
concerned. For this we will study the Fifth house and its lord. Though 
Jatak Parijat assigns education to the 4th house and discusses the 
combination that give rise to great learning, but Jatak Parijat also 
calls 5th house as house of intelligence. Parasara, however, mentions 
5th house as dealing with learning and high intelligence. In Jaimini 
the 2nd and the 5th house are referred to as dealing with education 
and learning. 


Uttarkalamitra and Sarvarth Chintamani give education to the 2nd 
house. It may be so because the second house deal with Kutumbha 
or early childhood, so this house deals with earlier part of education. 
The fourth house represents mind and its lord is Moon. If mind is 
not sound there is hardly any scope for receiving good education. 
In natural Zodiac 4th house has been assigned to Moon which is 
Karka for mind, hence the importance of this house for education. 
Modern professional courses will have to be judged from the fifth 
house/lord. In natural zodiac it is house of 'Purva Punya’' and its 
lord is Sun who represents Atma, the things divine. Sun is giver of 
light and Karka of success and fame. Hence importance of the 5th 
house and 5th lord/karka for success in day to day fife. 

Jupiter - is Karka for 9th house, wisdom and religion. 

For judgement of high academic achievements the important planets 
are Sun, Mercury. Jupiter and Moon. Saturn becomes necessary 
for giving perseverance and ability for hard work. 


184 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


According to Jatak Parijat if lord of 4th house and Vidyakarka' 

Mercury are strong in good houses, free from malefic aspects one 

becomes famous for learning. 

For higher Education in foreign countries see 9, 4, and 12 houses. 

Twelfth is the house of different environments. 

Tenth house shows livelihood. 

Yoga for No Education 

1) 4 lord in 6, 8 or 12 aspected by malefics. 

2) 4 lord in retrograde motion in 6, and no aspect of Jupiter on 
fourth house / lord. 

Planets and Education 

See Gemini and Cancer signs also 

Sun - lord of 5th in natural zodiac symbolizes success in education. 

A strong Sun gives higher education especially Medical Science. 

Sun - Saturn Rahu eminent physician. 

Jupiter-as Karka of 9 give super intelligence f no creative genius is 

born without good Jupiter. ] 

Mercury - represents intelligence. Without it no education is 

possible. 3rd house is inclination to study. Sign Gemini - Inclination 

for higher education. 

Strong Jupiter Mercury gives higher knowledge in any branch. 

Weak Mercury may deny education. 

Venus - application side. 

Venus - Sun good scientists if Mercury is well placed. 

Venus - Mercury - Sun give science. 

Venus in 3rd or 4th gives music or sport. 

Weak Venus interferes with education. 

Moon - Jupiter - wisdom and luck. 

Venus- Jupiter- Moon, writer 

Mars in 4 - mind is disturbed, cannot concentrate on studies for 

want of domestic peace. 

Satum, Gives patience, perseverance. 

Posited alone not in own sign etc. in 3, 4, 5 disturbs education. In 9, 

travel without purpose. Saturn afflicted interferes in research. 

Creative genius: combination of Jupiter - Saturn in 5, or 9 gives 

foresight. "Souri Gouri" Yoga. 

Rahu: Alone, with Mercury or Moon in 3, 4, 5, interferes in 

education. 


185 


Does not interfere in 9th. 

Rahu is Karka for all things that travel with unimaginable speed, 

electricity, sound, light, electronics and telecommunication. 

Rahu in 5 is engineer. 

Rahu, Moon Saturn idiot. No good education. 

Exalted Rahu is good for education. 

Rahu in Aquarius gives research, (in 9th house-in foreign country.) 

Ketu 

Secrecy 

Interferes in 3, 4, 5, 9 unless well placed. 

Represents secret service, benefic Ketu- signify detectives. 

Combination for Mathematics 

1. 2nd house being occupied with Sun and Mercury and aspected 

by Saturn. 

Moon and Mars in 2nd aspected by Mercury. 

Moon and Mars in 2nd, and Mercury in Kendra. 

Exalted Mercury in 2nd, Jupiter in Lagna, and Saturn in 8th. 

Mercury in second, Jupiter in Kendra or Trikona. 

Sun. Mercury in Kendra kona or 11. 

Pattern of Education 

Strongest of the following will decide the pattern of education 

1. Rasis of 5th lord - Nakshatras of 5th lord and influence of 
other planets and Rasis involved. 

2. Influence on 5th from Mercury 

3. See Mahadasha also. 

10 and 1! if associated show professional education. 

7th House - Management. 

9th House- Religious knowledge. 

6th sports - games. 

Education- Nadi Astrology 

2nd house represents acquired knowledge. 

4th house is house of education. 

Even though it is 12 to 5 this house is complementary to 5. 

From Classical Books 

Venus in 4 - music, with Mercury or Sun poetical instincts. 

Mercury, gives art, literature, and astrology. 

Sun and Moon-Political Science, psychology, metaphysics 


AARWN 


186 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


Sun - Mercury-Mathematics. 
Sun and Mars with Mercury-Logician. 


Subjects represented by Planets 

Sun - medicine, chemicals, optics, political science, administration, 
forestry, mathematics, physics. 

Moon textiles, navigation, nursing, home cookery laundry, 
psychology, hotel management, science, music dance, water works, 
fine arts chemistry, biochemistry. 

Mars military engineering, weapons, chemicals, medical, land estate, 
surgery, physics. 

Jupiter Law, preaching, education, gynecology, medical science, 
classical literature, MBA, zoology, history. 

Saturn, astrology excavation. 

Mercury, textiles, mathematics, accounts, economics, banking, 
printing, journalism, information technology. 

Venus, music, cinema, acting, tailoring, photography, modeling, hotel 
management, literature, botany. 

Saturn 

In Sun's house government, politics public undertaking, authority, 
labour law. 

In Moon’ house writing, foreign affairs, liquids, sea borne things. 
This tendency prevails even with aspect of Saturn. 

In Mars house work with machine, manual, physical energy, 
engineering. 

In Venus house financial trading. 

In Jupiter house executive, directing others, teaching, commanding 
respect. In Mercury House trade, conveyance ,communications, 
healing, herbs, Medicine-In Moon's Nakshatra engineering. 

Rahu - Mathematics - space. 

Ketu - Foreign languages, engineering, aircraft, microbiology. 
Moon Mars - electronics -computer. 

Mercury, Jupiter, Saturn, Ketu are prominent in service. 

Saturn, Mars, Rahu, Ketu are technical planets. 

Sun, Moon, Venus are non technical. 

Rahu is engineer. 


187 


How to Study Profession from the horoscope 

(Based on article published in Journal of Astrology April - 

June 2000 by K.N. Rao) 

The profession is judged by locating the key planet which is either; 
i. Tenth house, lord of tenth house, planets in the 10th house, 


aspects of planets on the 1 Oth house. Tenth house should 
be seen from Lagna, Moon and Sun, whichever is the 
strongest. Bhatotpala and Gargi are of the opinion that tenth 
house from Lagna and Moon both should be studied as a 
person may have income from various sources and not 
merely from the stronger of the two. 


ii. Lord of Navamsa of the 1 Oth lord, again from Lagna. Moon 


and Sun whichever is the strongest. 

Planets influencing Lagna, lord of Lagna. 

Planets involved in making Yogas with Moon and Sun like 
Sunapha, Anapha, Vasi, Vesi etc. They will tell us the source 
of income. 

In addition notice should be taken of following. 

Second and eleventh houses show nature and quantum of 
income The planets placed here indicate nature of wealth 
earned. 

Fifth house to study the pattern of education and the 
intelligence of the person concerned. Fourth house is also 
important: pleasure derived from the profession. Rahu and 
Ketu axis in the 4th sometimes show profession in 
engineering. Fourth is also seen for education. 

Dashas and Antra Dashas prevailing give us a clue. 
Study of Yogas: Yogas are also important. Important Yogas 
will give clue lo nature of profession. Saraswati Yoga will 
make a person inclined to fine arts. Presence of Lakshmi 
Yoga and strong eleventh house will make one involved in 
business. 'Nabhas' Yogas also give a indication to the nature 
of profession. 

In prediction special significance is attached to Uppachaya 
houses, 3. 6, 10 and 11. Planets in them assume special 
power. That is why benefics in 3, 6, 10 and 11 give birth to 
“Vasumati Yoga’, which gives plenty of wealth. For the 
people who are in service the 6th house gets additional 


188 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


importance as it is 9th to 10th and 10th to 9th house. 
6. Use of Jamini Astrology in determining profession and extent 
of rise. Here Uppada and Karkamsa Lagna are important. 
7. In addition to Rasi chart use will be made of Vargas 
especially Navamsa and Dasamsa. Navamsa should be 
read for all type of predictions and Dasamsa especially for 
profession. 
Sources of Income and Profession: 
According to Varahamihira, see (10th from Lagna, Moon and Sun) 
and find out which is strongest of the three. This would show 
profession. This also applies to lord of the Navamsa of 10th lord if 
there is no planet in the 10th. Out of the three, Lagna, Moon, or Sun 
the planet whoever is strongest will suggest the profession. If it is: 
Sun 
Basic 
(a) Gold (b) Jewellery (c) Medicines (d) Holy work of initiation of 
Mantras (e) Wool (f) Grain (g) Juices 
It also mean father, denoting inheritance, government service, 
doctors, scents, ambassador, law suits, ruby, metal works. Trees, 
timber, forest, fire, firearms. If Sun is exalted money is earned by 
self-acquisition. Banking auditing and stock exchange. 
State Services, administration and management. Persons in authority. 
A strong Sun in the 10th house, aspected by benefics raises a person 
to great social, political and economic heights by his own effort. 
A weak Sun aspected by malefics leads to many obstacles and 
frustrations in life. 
Connection of Sun with Saturn is not a good combination, and causes 
difficulties in career especially if Sun is within 7° of Saturn. 
Good aspect of Saturn makes one a high government officer. Sun 
in Scorpio may make one a famous doctor. 
Sun-Moon - Political Science, psychology, metaphysics. 
Sun-Mars: Politician, diplomatist, army, government servant, iron 
steel industries, sugar refining, agriculture, jute mills. 
Affliction with Mars causes friction with employer, but a well-placed 
Mars confers high rank. May be holding post of a Minister or a 
judge. Represents success in administrative career, administrative 
ability, and distinction. 


10th House 189 


Sun-Mercury - Mathematics. 

Sun-Mercury Venus - Poetical instincts. 

Sun-Mars Mercury - logician. 

(Sun in the 10th has directional strength. It is good for profession 
and vocational success. However, as a natural malefic it may cause 
separation from parents. As tenth is sixth from fifth house, placement 
of a malefic here is not good for children.) 

Moon 

Basic 

(a) Articles to and from royalty (b) Women (c) Clothes, garments 
(d) Watery products (e) Entertainment / amusements (f) Products 
of earth, clay (g) Farming, agriculture. 

Other likely professions are government related jobs (according to 
some government service without executive responsibility), grocery 
shop, sugar, chemist shop, hotel industry, speculation, law suits, 
clothes, royal female patronage, women, commission and insurance, 
watery products, corals, pearl, shells, shipping, navy and water supply 
department. Dairy, wines coffee, snack bar, fish, and writing. 
Exalted Moon in 10 as lord of 12 means income from exports. 
Gets wealth and recognition from the state. Reputed and bold. Gain 
from women of high family. Generous kind, trustee of religious 
institutions. 

As the Moon is a female planet and indicates females, women 
might be having some influence over him or he may derive wealth 
from his mother. 

Moon - Sun: Politician, leader, aristocrats, high political post. 
dramatist, play-writer, writer, and newspapers. Public welfare. If 
malefic aspect especially Mars leader of dacoits. 

Moon - Mercury - Religion or fiction, very intelligent, writing, 
editor articles for medical or business, advertising and dressmaking. 
Moon - Mars: martial spirit is developed, war historian, war 
correspondent, writer, engineering, pharmaceutical, chemicals, soap. 
vegetable oils, plastics. 

Moon - Jupiter: Job of honour, trust, responsibility, religious head, 
priest, writer of history, politics, book selling, advertising. 

Moon - Venus: Musician, music writer composer, poetry dramatist, 
-and actors. 

Moon Venus with malefics Rahu, Saturn or Mars illicit liquor, 
sinful deeds, brothels, nightclubs, and lewd shows. 


190 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


Moon Saturn: Combination for spirituality, a seer, a healer, Tantric 
occultist, fortune teller 

School teacher, writer, reader, writing on metallurgy, mining, 
mathematics mystical and metaphysical sciences and psychology. 
Sorrow, worry, sad, lack of will power, superstition. Head of factory, 
labour leader, and mining engineer. 

Mars 

Basic 

(a) War, fight (b) Fire (c) Promoting quarrels (d) Metals, roots (e) 
Contractor's work (f) Gambling. 

(g) Work which involves arguments (h) Thieving 

Military, police navy fire fighting, aggressive matters, and income 
from enemy. Mars fire in modem technology manufacturing, 
engineer, sculptor, mechanic, dentist and surgeon. Mars gives high 
rank, influence, and wealth from royal court, agriculture, relatives 
and friends. Frequent celebrations, generous, pleasure loving, cruel. 
Prosperous, and philanthropic. 

Adventures and physical strength, fire works, kitchen, engine driving, 
rash action, and speculation. Chemical, drugs chemistry. Mars is 
Karka for logic and sciences and one may excel in these subjects. 
Mars is ‘Bhumi Karka’ as such income may be from lands and 
agriculture. 

Gains through business acumen, salesmanship. Mountaineering, 
trekking, sky diving, exploration. Well aspected by Mercury: 
Engineer, sculptor, armed forces, dentist, surgeon. 

All profession which involve cutting into, like agriculture and hunting, 
or butchery, athletics, sports. See connection of Mars in 6,7 or 10. 
Afflicted by Mercury: mason, labourer, iron smith, butcher, bath, 
lavatory or laundry assistant. 

Well aspected by Jupiter: courageous, brave, and impulsive. 
Afflicted: improvident and wasteful over enthusiastic and _ self- 
deceptive. 

Adverse Satur: Business failure, labourious employment, resentful, 
unforgiving 

Mars Mercury — Mechanical engineering. 

Mercury 

Basic (a) Poetry (b) Priestly work (c) Classical learning (d) Vedanta 
or philosophical wisdom (e) Sculpture, Architecture. 

Other professions are handicrafts, literature, astrology, and 


10th House 191 


astronomy. In modern terms Mercury represents journalism. Income 
through friends, writing, mathematics, poetry and fine arts, painter, 
scent maker, engraver, education, research institutions and 
foundations. 

Literary and poetical works, business, novelist, reporter, lecturer, 
teacher, traveler, electrician, psychologist, inventions. If alone 
exporter, wholesale distributor or commission agent, government 
official, land surveyors, managers, geologist, scientist, mining 
engineers, employments requiring skill. 

Favourable Mercury: Judge, Minister, ambassador, trustee, and 
position of distinction. 

Fiery Signs: mathematics, teachers, and engineers. 

Airy Signs- Mercury in airy signs gives good memory and fluent 
speech for business Service in survey department. 

Watery Signs publisher, printer, newspaper owner, stationery. 
Earthy Signs: commission agents, business, travel agents. 

Enemy sign foolish activities, mean acts, vicious 

Mercury-Sun Politics, diplomat, banking, business. With Saturn's 
aspect fall and disgrace in career. Broker, commission agents. 
Restless if afflicted by Mars or Saturn. He is subtle, deceptive, 
impulsive and untruthful. Problems in business. 

Mercury Mars - witty, commercial enterprises ~ 

Mercury Saturn - administrator, chemistry, science 

Mercury Jupiter- Philosophical, profitable activities. Leader; law, 
intelligence and tact, religious field. 

Mercury -Venus: Mercury Venus in the 10th gives divine music if 
there is aspect of Saturn gives popular appeal also. Business, tailoring, 
Jewellery, fur clothing, painting, art, salesman. 

Mercury Saturn: Industries. 

Mercury Rahu - Engineering - mechanical. 

Jupiter 

Basic: (a) Legal Work (b) religious preaching (c) classical and 
religious learning (d) religious worship (e) teaching (f) service to 
Brahmins or the religious spiritual persons. 

Other professions are teaching, legal work, law, income from elder 
brother, judge, and banker. Management, educated classes income 
from manufacture and charities. Books and publishing, a learned 
scholar, scientist, judge, and statesman, leader of men. 
Combination of Jupiter with other Planets : 

Afflicted by Mars legal troubles and by Saturn losses, by Mercury 


192 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


minor officer clerk, grocer etc. 

Jupiter and Venus in Rasi of Moon social sciences. With Venus 
gives business. 

Jupiter- Saturn combination gives legal studies. 

Venus: gold, gems, jewels, hoteliering, cosmetics, vehicles, horses, 
milk, coffee. beverages and curd, milk products women, cattle, cows. 
Venus in Rasi of Moon - silks-aspect of Mars plastics, gains through 
women, gems, silver, metal. Things beautiful, music, art, dancing, 
perfumes. Venus in ten relates to work in TV. 

In Aries, Gemini, Leo, Libra, Sagittarius or Aquarius tend to science 
stream, proficiency in mathematics and Astrology Occupation: 
Beauty centers. 

With Mercury, love for music, painting, stage, printers, decorators, 
and position of trust, refinement, lot of travelling. 

Venus - Mercury is combination for Divine music - If aspect of 
Saturn is there, it means popular music. 

Saturn 

Industries, brick, kilns, printing press, hardware, oil refineries, mines, 
labour, iron. Despicable means, handicrafts, woodwork, butchery, 
provoking opposition, and communications, low quality sculpture, 
carrying of load, servants bring him money. Dasha of Saturn gives 
service at a lower level. 

Saturn in 10 without benefic aspect means frustrated career. 
Affliction with Mercury menial jobs gardeners, coal handlers. 
Saturn and Mars in 10 aspected by Moon and Jupiter manufacturing 
industry. 

Rahu- Venus - Many lovers. It is also combination for computer 
engineering. Fond of poetry and drama. Electronic engineering, 
computers. 

Ketu: foreign languages, computers. 

Some Idea of Profession from combination of two Planets: 
as given by Varahamihira 

Sun Moon - machinery, masonry - making or dealing with all 
machinery - mechanics, engineers, chemists and other workmen - 
(Combination of Sun Mercury is better combination for engineers. 
Could mean building houses sellers of stones.) 

Sun Mars - sinful deeds (shows more of character rather than 
profession). 

Sun Mercury - skilful. intelligent, renowned and happy. 


10th House 193 


Sun Jupiter - cruel and doing other's work. It is also combination 
for work in connection with temple. 

Sun Venus - money by stage or weapons. 

Sun Saturn - ores or earthenware. - High political life, may prepare 
pottery, low service. 

Sun - Rahu - work with low class ruler. 

Moon-Mars - counterfeit, seller of women, wines and pots - liquor 
stores, manufacturer of wines. 

Moon Mercury: popular, renowned, polite in speech. 

Moon Jupiter: wealthy, chief of the sect. 

Moon- Venus skillful in weaving, clothes. 

Mars Mercury: flowers, fibers, clothes, and roots. Oil of all 
descriptions, imitation stuff, and boxer. . 
Jupiter-Mars: (Guru Mangal Yoga) chief officer, leader, magistrate, 
learned, wealthy. Prapta Vitta or Prapta Vidya. This also is 
combination for job in police. 

Mars Saturn - misery, falsehood, disgrace. 

Mars-Mercury - mathematics. 

Mercury - Jupiter - stage acting. 

Mercury Venus - music, dancing, eloquence, protection of land and 
assemblies, engineer, photographer, artist. 

Mercury Saturn - cheat, disobedient. Accountant, copyist. 

Jupiter - Venus - good education, wife, wealth, virtue. This is also 
combination for leather. 

Jupiter - Saturn - barbers, potter, cook. 

Venus - Moon - engineer, photographer, artist. 

Venus - Saturn - small eyes, wealth from depending on women, 
artistic capacity, ordinary writing or poetry. 

Venus-Mars wrestler, gambler, skilful, fond of other women. 
Venereal diseases. 

Saturn: (When connected with planets or in their Rasis) 

In Sun's Rasi: government politics, public undertaking, and authority. 
In Moon's Rasi: Writing, foreign affairs, liquids, and sea-related 
things. 

In Mars Rasi: work with machine, manual and use of physical 
energy. 

In Venus Rasi: financial trading. 

In Mercury Rasi: trade, conveyance, communication, university, 
journalism, healing, herbs. 


194 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


Examples ; Taken from the article "About Professions" by 
K.N. Rao published in Journal of Astrology April June-2000. 
Strongest from Lagna Moon and Sun. 

1. From the strongest of this see who is the 1 Oth lord and see who 
is Navamsa lord of that tenth lord. 

2. Now apply the same classification to the Navamsa lord of the 
10th lord from among the strongest tenth lord from Lagna, Sun 
and Moon. 

The best way of deciding the strongest of the three lords is from 

the use of Graha Bala assessment. Sometimes the assessment 

may be confusing. In such cases help should be taken from the 
method used by Jaimini. Here Atma Karka, Amatya Karka and 

Karkamsa Lagna become the focal points. This method is being 

explained separately. 

Case 1 Author: (10th Lord Mercury 08°09’) 


ve] 
ed Author 


10th house has no planet but receives the aspect of Saturn, which is 
2nd, and 3rd lord. As the 3rd lord it represents the use of hands or 
writing with 5th lord authorship. 

The 1 Oth lord is Mercury in the 5th house with an exalted 9th lord 
Sun, forming Raj Yoga, Dharm Karam Adhipati Yoga, of a very 
high order. The aspect of Jupiter a planet of learning and wisdom 
further strengthens it. 

Now examine the Navamsa lord of the 10th lord Mercury with 
08°09" which gives it Mithun Navamsa whose lord is Mercury. 
Mercury is planet of Journalism. 


10th House 195 


The profession of Mercury is intellectual and not of the menial type. 
The person of this horoscope was a famous journalist with a brief 
span of life. 


Mercury and Sun aspect the 10th house from Rasi of Mithun. Mars 
also aspects the 1 Oth house from the Rasi of Mercury. Sculptor and 
architecture and Mercury the planet of business become dominant. 
Tenth lord is Jupiter in the Rasi of Moon with Venus. This woman 
has modern learning which is social sciences. The influence of Venus 
attracts her towards business, towards articles which attract women. 
The 1 Oth lord Jupiter is with Venus in Cancer. It falls in the Navamsa 
of Venus. Venus represents gold, jewels etc., which is clothes. In 
this case very fine embroidered clothes. 

Case III 


1% Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


The 10th house has an exalted Moon who is the 12th lord of exports. 
Moon represents clothes. 

10th lord Venus is in the Rasi of Moon. Moon is the 12th lord of 
exports. Moon represents clothes. Venus is with Sun in Cancer 
Rasi of Moon. Sun represents wool, Venus jewellery and Moon 
clothes. The 10th lord is Venus in the Rasi of Moon and he deals 
with silk. But the Navamsa of Mars has given him new work of 
plastics also. Mars represents fire, which in modem technology 
means plastic (use of fire). 

Case Four 


The 10th house has’ Mercury planet of business and Venus planet 
of arts. The 10th lord Moon is of 07°-25' degrees, which gives it 
Navamsa of Jupiter in Dhanu. 

He is a painter with religious leaning and is busy building a Foundation 
to promote spiritual activities. 

Examples Five 


10th House 197 


The 10th lord has three planets and has the aspect of Jupiter from 

the 6th house of quarrels. Jupiter represents law, which is neo 

classical learning of our time, and Mercury also represents intellectual 

career. 

Tenth lord is Mercury who is of 10°-47' degrees and is in the 

Navamsa of Mars which represent quarrels and arguments. 

Mercury is with Sun lord of nine, which promises a high position. 

Combination of law, quarrels, arguments and 6th house show early 

success in legal profession. 

Important Notes 

1. Along with Navamsa other Varga charts especially Dasamsa 
should be prepared. 

: 2. Always concentrate on Mahadasha running from time to time. 

Finding stronger between Lagna and Moon and who among the 

10th from Lagna or 10thfrom Moon is stronger in Navamsa. Some 

times a person is doing many things at the same time. 

3. Extend the principle to tenth from Sun also. Strongest of the 

three should be seen. 

4. Always resort to Jaimini astrology to clinch the issue. 

Example: Atmakarka-Saturn ; Karkamsa Lagna - Pisces. 


Munulfacturer 


Furniture Ps 
12 
it Karkamsa 


1. In Rasi chart Saturn and Mars are in the 10th aspected by 
Moon and Jupiter showing some manufacturing works. 
Jupiter in the second promise good money. 

2. From Sun results are the same. 

3. From Moon 10th house has many planets and is stronger. 


198 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


Additionally presence of Jupiter in 11 is promise of good profits. 
4. In Navamsa (not given) Moon is in Kumbha, Venus in exaltation 
in Meena is better. Venus is with Satur in Meena and is aspected 
by Mars from Dhanu, repeating promise of manufacturing. 
5. Atma Karka is Saturn from where 5 planets aspect the 11th 
house. (Jaimini aspects). 
6. Karkamsa is Meena from where 10th lord Jupiter receives 
aspect of Mars. Saturn and the Moon. 
She gets many things manufactured one of them is fumiture, 
Jupiter represents furniture also. 
Determination of Profession through Jaimini Astrology 
From Karkamsa (It is the Rasi in which Atma Karka is located in 
Navamsa. It should be seen both in Rasi chart as well as in Navamsa.) 
Sun in Karkamsa gives public work, political activity. 
Sun and Venus - aspect, royal or political personage. 
Moon and Venus in Karkamsa - money earned through education 
- Vidyajivika 
Mars in Navamsa of Atmakarka gives metallurgy, arms, fire, 
chemists, gunners, engine drivers cooks, ,and fire fighters. 
Mercury: merchant, weaver, manufacturer clothes, social and political 
matters. 
Jupiter: Philosopher, religious head, and knowledge of Vedanta. 
Venus: Big politician if it joins Atmakarka in Karkamsa Lagna. 
Saturn: Person becomes famous in family business if it joins 
Atmakarka in Karkamsa Lagna. 
Rahu: thief, dacoit, doctor, dangerous chemicals. 
Tenth from Karkamsa Lagna 
Sun: with Jupiter aspect, sale of cattle 
Sun: Doctor 
Rahu: doctor 


4th from Karkamsa Lagna or in Karkamsa 

Ketu: clocks, watches, time indicators 

Rahu: clever mechanic, engineer. 

5th from Karkamsa Lagna 

Moon or Jupiter in Karkamsa Lagna or 5th from it - author of 
books 


199 


Venus - poets 

Moon in Karkamsa Lagna or 5th from it: musician. 

Sun in Karkamsa Lagna or 5th from it: music, philosopher 

Ketu: mathematician. 

Factors Responsible for High Posts 

1. Lagna/lord should he strong. 

2. There should be powerful Raj Yogas in the horoscope 
Connection exchange of Kendra Trikonas generate powerful 
Raj Yogas, Lords, of 9 and 10, 4and 5, 4and 9, 5 and 10, 1, 9 
or 10, 10 and 6, 6 in 10,6 in 6, 9 in 9 or 10 in 10 combination is 
good. 

3. 6th house/ lord are important as it is 9th from 10th and 10th 
from 9th. 6th is salaried class. Promotion occurs during Dasha 
Bhukti, of lord of ten, nine, and sometimes six also. 10th lord 
always promotes career even when placed in 8th. 

4. Dasha/Bhukti of a Yoga Karka. Even when a Yoga Karka 
planet is in evil houses and benefics aspect him. 

5. Lords of 6, or planets in 6, or PAC 6 house when 6 has 
connection with 9 and 10. 

6. Promotion also in Dasha bhukti of malefics in 3 and [1 aspected 
by benefics. 

7. Mercury is Karka for 10th. Mercury causes promotion if 
connected with 6 or 10. 

Timing Promotion or Confirmation in Service 

These are important principles taught by K.N. Rao and taken from 

his book 'Ups and Down in Career’. 

Laws: 1. In every horoscope analyze the Yogas first. 

In case of pronouncing judgement on promotion or elevation 

in status first see how many Raj Yogas are there in the 

horoscope. According to K.N. Rao these Raj Yogas are nearly 

25. The more such Yogas are present in the horoscope the greater 

is the rise. If majority out of these are present, the person 

rises to dizzy heights. 
2. When some of these are present, combinations are capable 
of bestowing glory and enhance the status of the person. 

Double Transit : 

When the above two conditions, i.e. the presence of Yogas and 

operation of favourable Dasha, Antardasha are operative double 

transit phenomenon should be brought into consideration. This double 


200 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


- transit phenomenon is a favourable transit of Saturn and Jupiter 
as follows. 
(a) Jupiter: In transit, Jupiter should be aspecting the Moon or 
the 10th house from Moon or the Lagna. The transit of 
Jupiter in a trine from Lagna or the Moon is also a 
favourable position but importance should be given to Jupiter 
in the 10th from Moon or from Lagna or the Jupiter's aspect 
on the 10th house from the Moon or the Lagna. 
(b) Saturn: Satum should be aspecting the 10th lord whenever 
anything important is to happen. Saturn's aspect on the 
10th lord should be treated as only a part fulfillment of the 
promise. 
Case Study (page 40 Ups and Down in Career by K.N. Rao) 
Mrs. Margaret Alva 14:4:1942 
Mangalore Asd 5°34’, Sun 0°21’, Moon 11°33' 


Margaret 


Mars 10°29", Mer 23°22’, Jup 25°01', Ven 14°02’ Sat 3°54’, Rah 

18°20! 

Dasha: Ven-Jup: August 1982-85 

She was Chairman of the Rajya Sabha and on 31 st December 

1984 she became Minister of Parliamentary Affairs as predicted 

by K.N. Rao. 

Basis of Prediction: 

(a) The Yogas: The Raj Yogas in the horoscope are as follows 

i) Mercury Moon combination in Lagna. Mercury is lord of 4 
and 7 and Moon is lord of auspicious 5. 

ii) Eighth lord Venus in 12 constituting Vipreet Raj Yoga. 

iil) Mars, lord of 9 in 3 with Lagna and 10 lord Jupiter creating 
Dharm Karam Adhipati Yoga fortified by association of 
lord of gains Saturn. 


/ Oth House 201 


iv) Interchange between Saturn and Venus. 

(b) Dasha: During the Yoga fructifying Mahadasha of Venus 
(8th lord in 12) she was running the Antardasha of Jupiter, 
her 10th and Lagna lord who in tum was involved in a 
Yoga with Mars. It was only this period that she became a 
Minister. 

Transit: See the transit chart below: 

Transit of Jupiter and Saturn on 31.12.1984. 


Jup Sal 
Transit Tronsil | 


Jupiter: At the time of her elevation, Jupiter was in the 1 Oth from 
her Lagna and Moon. 

Saturn: Saturn from Scorpio was aspecting her 10th lord Jupiter in 
Taurus. 

Gain and Loss of Power 

According to Varahamihira. 

"The person gets the royal power in the Antardasha of the most 
powerful planet who combines in the 10thor of the Ist. He loses 
that power in the Antardasha of the planet who is unfriendly or 
Neecha house because such period is called Chidra Dasha. Then 
he must seek protection from a powerful king.” Varahamihira 
Take a planet in the first or 10 and whichever is the stronger predict 
acquisition of power during that Antardashaa. If there are no planets 
in the first or the tenth find out which of the lord is strongest and 
ascribe the power to him during his Antardasha. Such kingly power 
or office will be lost when the Antardasha of a planet, which 
occupies an unfriendly or debilitated Rasi, intervenes. 

This is called Chidra Dasha, which means accident or misfortune 


202 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


as well as hole, and therefore he gets into unfortunate position by 
losing his power. 
Obstruction in Career 
1. IfKalasarpa or Kemadruma Yoga has anything to do with 
10, 9, or 6 or their lords there is obstruction in career. 
2. Combination or mutual exchange of Mars and Saturn, Sun 
and Saturn, lords of 12 or 10, 8 and 10 create obstructions. 
3. Afflicted lords of 6,9 and 10 or when they are in 'Papkartari’ 
Yogas. 
Transfers 
In natal or horary astrology houses 1,4,7 and 10, the four Kendras 
are involved in transfers. 
Ascendant is personality, 4th his welfare and affliction to 10thhouse 
is transfer. 
Chatturthamsa should always be considered. 
(Greater auspicious results occur in the major period of 3rd 
lord than in 10th lord if both are related- Bhavarth Ratnakar 
- see horoscope of Narsimha Rao) 
Three Dashas are considered important, of (i) 10th lord, ii) Lagna 
lord, iii) exalted planet. 
According to Parasara following results are expected in the Dasha 
of 10th lord. 
Dasha of the Strong 10th lord 
If lord of the 10 is exalted in an angle or a trine and be in the 
company of Jupiter, one will be endowed with worthy deeds. 
According to Parasara if 1 Oth lord is without strength one will face 
obstruction in work. 
One will gain in royal patronage and in business if 1Othlord is in 
conjunction with benefic planets. Opposite results will happen in 
reverse situation. 
Adverse Combinations 
i) Weak 10th lord - "If the 10th lord is in the 8th along with 
Rahu, the native will hate others, be a great fool and will do 
bad deeds." Parasara 
ii) Malefics in 10th - If the 10th and 11th are occupied by 
malefics one will indulge in bad deeds and will defile his 
own men. 
Lords of 10 and 3, combination-deprived of fortune in Dasha of 10 


10th House 203 


lord but will enjoy fortune in Dasha of 3rd lord. - Bhavarth Ratnakar. 
"When the 10th Bhava is inauspicious person will be void of honour 
or pride”. Jatak Parijat. 
Dasha Scheme; 
Dasha scheme is the unfolding of our Karmas. What is happening 
to us is nothing else but as depicted in the Dasha scheme. If one 
gets good Dashas of benefic planets or of good lordship like 5 or 9 
or 10 early in life one is bound to have good education. Dashas of 
lord of 6, 8 and 12 will disrupt education. 
For finding education related professions concentrate on 5th house, 
its lord, Karka and Dasha scheme. This will give very good results 
in determining profession. If lords of Mahadasha, Antar and 
Patyantra Dasha are linked with 5th house, the education is bound 
to be good. The planets Mars, Saturn, Rahu and Ketu give technical 
oriented education. 
Fame Giving Combinations 
Strong 10th Lord and benefics in the 10th 
Planets in the 10th house have a great say in giving success and 
imparting a moral tinge as also give one rank and status. 
According to Parasara if 11thlord is in the 10th and the 10th lord is 
strong and there is aspect of Jupiter one gets fame. 
Other combination for fame according to Parasara is 10th lord in 
9th, Lagna lord in 10th and Moon in the 5th house. 
According to Phala Deepika if a benefic planet is placed in the 10th 
house or if the lord of the 1 Oth house is placed in Kendra Trikona, in 
its own sign or sign of exaltation, or when lord of Lagna is posited in 
the 10th house one becomes very famous. He is also engaged in 
meritorious deeds. He is fortunate like a king and has long lease of 
life. 
Combinations for Performance of Meritorious Deeds 
1. If four planets are placed in 10th house including lord of 
ten this gives birth to Sanyas Yoga. 
2. Many benefic planets in tenth house, Jupiter and Mercury 
in 10th house one perform meritorious deeds. 
3. Moon in 10th house and lord of ten strong one takes dips in 
holy Ganges 
4. IfRahu or Sun are in the 10th one bathes in Ganges. 


204 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


5. Meena or Pisces Rasi in the 10th Bhava and with Mercury 

and Mars one gets final emancipation. 
High Status 

1. If 10th lord from Lagna, Sun and Moon are inter related. 

2. Sun in 10 exalted or own house. 

3. Benefics in 2nd, 10 and 11 - financially very well off. 

4. Presence of Raj Yogas in the horoscope and their operative 
period, especially combination of Kendra Trikona lords. 
Mahabhagya Yoga, Rasi Parivartan Yoga, Neech Bhanga 

_Raj Yoga and Vipreet Raj Yogas. 

5. Use of Jaimini Astrology- Saturn or Mercury in 10th from 

Karkamsa Lagna are fame givers. 
Study also 2, 9 and 11 houses, wealth, luck and gains 
2nd for wealth, 9th for fortune and 11 for gains. 
Jupiter in 2 or 11 is promise of good money. 
Karka planets for crime are Rahu. Mars, Saturn and Ketu. Moon 
and Mercury should not be influenced by them. Tendencies 
intensified by Rahu - Saturn, Rahu Moon, and Rahu Mercury. Saturn, 
Rahu, Mars in 10 produces criminals, anti social, pickpockets, rapists, 
murderers, dacoits. 

Profession - Doctors 

The profession of medicine and curing people of diseases is 
considered to be noble profession. 'Vedo Narayano Hari’ (doctor 
is god) 
According to Puranas God was born as Dhanvantari during the 
churning of the Milky Ocean, holding pot full of nectar to cure 
humanity. Charak and Sushruta were other names in the field of 
curative medicines or of medicines treating body Kava (body) and 
Vajikarna (rejuvenation). 
Emphasis on social service to humanity has changed these days to 
that of financial gains. From pure caring and looking to root cause 
of diseases the emphasis today is super specialisation and most 
expensive laboratory tests. The young and intelligent are now 
thinking of this profession for financial gain and status symbol rather 
than humility and social service. The change in emphasis would 
also mean change in planetary influences, so while basic combination 
in classical books relating to drugs might be the same the mental 
inclination as given in classical books may shift from role of Jupiter 


10th House 205 


as benign factor to aggressive role of malefics like Mars, Saturn 
and Rahu. 
In physicians or the persons who heal there is great deal of variety 
today. There are homeopaths, Ayurveda, naturalpathy cures, persons 
who care through Yogas etc. Then in medical profession also there 
are various branches like dermatology, heart specialists, urologists,. 
gynecologists, child specialists, neurosurgeons, oconnologists, doctors 
dealing with physiotherapy, management of public health etc. 

K.N. Rao in a series of articles under the title "Doctors Drugged 

Moon,” has given various combinations for a doctor which are given 
below : 

1. In determining the profession of doctors Jupiter and Moon have 
a main role. Jupiter for cure and Moon for drugs and liquids. 
Jupiter normally connects houses 1, 5, and 10, or their lords in 
one way or the other. 

2. Mars has connection with 5 or 10 houses/lords. 

3. 3,6, and 8 houses have connection with 5 and LO houses or their 
lords. 

Role of Moon : 

Doctors' Moon is afflicted some times heavily except those of 
orthopedists or radiologists. 

2. 10th house / lords from Moon are afflicted. 

3. There is affliction to 8th house / lord from Moon. 

. Moon under Nakshatra of malefic planets or afflicted by a 
malefic. 

5. Moon has some connection with 7 house/lord. 

6. Moon Rasi lord is under affliction. 
7 
8 


a 


. Moon's Nakshatra lord is in 6 or 8 and afflicted. 
. Sign or Karka Rasi Cancer becomes important Rasi for doctors. 
The other combinations for doctors are as follows; 
l.Lord of6 related with 10, from Moon or Nakshatras, or 
Navamsa. 
2. Lords of 6 and 9 related in most of the cases. 
3. Saturn Mars together or in Kendras from each other in Lagna, 
Navamsa or Dasamsa. 
4. Moon, Lagna or 10th lord in Ashvini or Satabhisha Nakshatra. 
From Vedic times Satabhisha Nakshatra is associated with Elixir 


206 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


of life - Amrita. Its deity Varuna has the power to sustain life 
with knowledge of herbs. In mythology it is Ashvini Kumar who 
restored Chyavana youth. 
5. Mars in Leo. 
6. Association of Jupiter, with Saturn Karka for profession is good 
for status and prosperity. Saturn in House of Mars may mean 
factories, handling tools, as also surgeon. 
Role of Saturn in determining Medical career is important. 
7. Sun, Mars, Saturn, and Rahu in 10th-NADI Principle 
8. Moon, Venus in 10th aspected by benefics. 
9 Sun, Rahu in Karkamsa Lagna of benefics - Parasara. 
10. Saturn, Mars in 10th or in mutual Kendras. See Navamsa and 
Dasamsa also 
lf. Venus and Saturn 10th from Moon - medicine. Mars and 
Mercury also give same results. 
12. Virgo, Scorpio, and Pisces are prominent 
13. 10th lord / house from KL with Sun, Mercury. 
14. 10 lord with Sun, Mercury. 
15. 10th lord from Sun, Moon, Lagna in Navamsa of Mars. 
According to Varahamihira 10th Lord is in Navamsa of Sun. 
16. There is combination of Sun- Rahu, Mars -Rahu, Moon- Rahu. 
Houses involved 
Lagna Representing body, 6th house representing diseases, 8th 
denoting Ayu, chronic diseases accidents, 10th representing 
profession and 12 representing hospitals. 
4th and 5th houses will come into picture for showing pattern of 
education and high intelligence and 9th house for success and 
fortune. Jataka Deshmarga assigns 9th house to medicine while 
Uttarkalamitra gives 10th house. 
Planets: 
1. Sun, as giver and sustainer of life is the most important planet. It 
is also lord of five in the natural zodiac and essential for success 
and achievements. It should be strong in the horoscope. Tenth lord 
would have some connection with Sun in Rasi or Navamsa. 
2. Mars, as lord of Lagna in Aries, the first sign in the natural Zodiac. 
As Lagna lord it is protector and as lord of eight which represent 
Ayu (span of life). 
3. Saturn as Karka for Ayu and as significator of Death or ‘Koal’ 
personified. 


10th House 207 


4, Jupiter as sustainer and giver of life. 

5. Mercury as Karka for education or intelligence. 

6. Moon as Karka of mind. 

7. Rahu as serpent or having connection with drugs is important. In 

Wester Astrology Sun signs give some clue to Medical profession; 

i) Aries psychiatrists, dentists. 

ii) Sign Cancer represents nursing profession. 

iii) Virgo Lab, worker in health, Sagittarius veterinarian, Aquarius 

radiographer. 

iv) Pisces medical profession as a whole. 

Planets Sun, Jupiter, Saturn are prominent. 

See the source of income. 

Houses 6, 8, and 12 are areas of sickness, disability, Jupiter, Sun 

and Saturn are related to these. 

Or 10th Lord connection with 6, 8,12 or PAC of Jupiter, Sun or 

Saturn with 6,8, or 12, as also 2,11 and their lords. 

Jaimini Astrology and Medical Profession 

There are three Shlokas which throw some light on the subject; 

1. Combination of Rahu with Atma Karka in Navamsa or 
alternatively stretching the point, the presence of Rahu in 
Karkamsa Lagna. (The person lives by skillful use of war like 
instruments. He is a doctor - a surgeon in present day world.) 

2. If Venus aspects Karkamsa and Moon, the person deals with 
herbs and chemicals. 

3. Karkamsa and Moon having the aspect of Mercury. 


Example : - Horoscope of a Doctor: 


Maan Sun, ¥en 
Mer | sat Jup 
Ket KL 


75-04.194] 
15.20 
Patna 


208 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 
AK Mer 29°47' 


Atma Karka is Mercury - Presence of Moon and Mercury 
Karkamsa Lagna Pisces. 
Relationship of lords of 4, 6, 8, 10, 12 is established. 


Case Study I: Professor of Medicines 2.7.1945, 6:24 PM 


Houses involved- 1 Oth lord Mercury is in eight aspected by 5th and 
12th lord Mars. 

5th lord Mars aspects 8th, 11, 12th houses. 

Lagna lord in 9 aspecting own house Lagna and 5th house. 

Rahu aspects Karkamsa Lagna. 

4th lord in nine meaning good education. 

See affliction to the Moon. 

Moon is afflicted by Saturn. 

The 10th house from Moon is afflicted. 

8th lord from Moon is Venus who is in the 6th in Pap Kartari Yoga. 


10th House 209 


Moon has connection with 7th house through Saturn. 


Case Study II 
29.01.1954, 10:15 am, Professor of Surgery 


Lagna Jup (Ri 
EL 


Sat 
Mars 


Ket 
Moon 


See the affliction to Moon by Rahu/Ketu, and lords of six 


1. 
and lord of eight Venus. 

2. There is a strong 5th house with its lord in it aspected by 
Vidyakarka Mercury, lord of four and seven. 

3. Mars as lord of 9th aspects lord of 10th, Jupiter. 

4. Saturn Mars are together in the 8th house of longevity. 

5. There is connection of lord of house of diseases six, Sun with 
house of education five. 

6. Karkamsa Lagna is Taurus aspected by Rahu and Sun. 
(Jaimini aspects). 

Case Ill 


Professor of Medicine 14.12.1943, 04:15 


210 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


1. Mercury is 5th lord in the 8th aspecting 8th lord. Jupiter aspects 
5th lord Mercury. 

2. Lagna lord Venus in 6, Aspect, of 12th and 7th lord Mars on 
8th and 4th house of education as well as on 4th lord Sun. 

3. Aspect of Mercury on Karkamsa Lagna. 

4. Moon afflicted by Saturn and is in Pap Kartari Yoga. 


_ 


10th House 21 


Tenth House Profession - Engineers 
In judging the horoscope of engineers following observations have 
been made. 
1. High intelligence, the 5th house and the 5th lord strong. 
2. Mathematical ability, the combinations for which have been 
given separately. 
3. Role of technical planets. Mars, Saturn, and Rahu and Ketu. 
Dasha of the technical planets during time of education. 
5. Ketu is important for computer education as Ketu is Karka for 
language and learning. Software is learning of a new language. 
6. Special importance should be attached to role of Rahu also. Its 
placement in 4th or 5th shows technical/engineering education. 
7. Mercury as usual will have an important role as it is Karka for 
intellect and without good intellect one cannot be an engineer. 
8. Connection between 5th and 10th house making a Raj Yoga. 
Case I 
B. Sc. Civil Engineering 11.10.1949, 05:30 P.M. New Delhi From 
Journal of Astrology by L.S. Sharma 


= 


Lagna 16°47\ Sun 24°41\ Moon 12°21\ Mars 27°50\ Mercury 
10°57’ Jupiter 00°01\ Venus 8°05\ Saturn 21°10\ Rahu 23°30’ 
AK Mars, Amk Sun 
Balance Dasha Moon Rahu 
Mahadasha Mars 6.1.1958 

Rahu 6.1.1965 

Jupiter 6.1.83 


212 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


Jupiter is in the Nakshatra of Sun. 

B. Sc. Civil Engineering - Joined Army 

Rahu Jupiter - Pre-engineering B. Sc. Physics (Hon). 

Rahu Mercury - B. Sc. Civil Engineering - distinction in all papers. 
Sponsored by Ministry of Defence M.Tech. IIT Delhi. 

From Moon 5th has Sun and Ketu in Nakshatra of Mars. 

From Mercury - 5th house in Makara lord Saturn aspect of Mars 
technical education. 

Rahu-Mercury - best gentleman cadet Dehradun 12.6.1975. 

In Jupiter-Jupiter promoted as Major 1984 - Jupiter 10th lord in 11. 
24.11.194 Jupiter - Moon Promoted as Lt. Colonel. Moon is exalted. 
Jupiter Moon joined post graduate MBA courses. 


10th House 213 


Case II: Journal of A 


i 
z= 
Navamaa 


Laewa 
Kew Mer | Moon | 
Jup, Sar , 


} ] Sun | 
| 4 P IRahu Sat ! 
er | Moon 


Lagna 22°36', Sun 16°08", Moun 00°35', Mars 05°00', Mercury 
05°35' 


214 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


Jupiter 21 °22’,Venus 02°07’, Saturn 20°38', Rahu 17°59". 
Analysis: 5th lord Moon in Nakshatra of Mars. Mars with Sun 
and Rahu aspecting 10th house. 

Got Balance of Mars followed by Rahu. In Rahu Dasha completed 
graduation. 

Rahu Mars-job as a wireless operator in police department. Rahu 
is wireless, Mars is police. There is connection of Mars with 10th 
house. Then came a break in education. 

In Jupiter Dasha (1962), lord of Lagna and 10th lord. In D/10 Jupiter 
is in the 10thhe got job of junior engineer. In D/9 Jupiter is aspecting 
5th house, re-started education. 

Jupiter - Saturn, Saturn is aspecting 5th lord Moon as also Mercury 
Karka for education. Jupiter in any case can give education in its 
Dasha. Hence he completed his education and was selected for 
Indian Engineering Service. 

Case III 

DOB: 9-11-1960, Delhi 


10th House 215 


Main Features: Lagna aspected by its own lord Venus making a 

Raj Yoga. 

2. 1 Oth from Lagna aspected by its own lord Saturn giving strength 
to this house. 

3. Moon is in its own house and is Vargottam. 

4. 5th lord Mercury is with 4th lord Sun making a Raj Yoga in the 
6th house. 

Mars and Saturn both aspect 5th house. Technical planets aspect 

house of education. 

Karkamsa is Pisces. 

In Navamsa, Lagna lord is exalted in the 9th. It is aspected by 

Jupiter. Tenth house is aspected by its own lord. 

In Dasamsa : 

3rd and 10th lord is in Lagna, which gives strength to the 10th 

house. 10th house is aspected by Jupiter. 

10th lord and Lagna are both strong in divisional charts. 

Dasha Scheme : 

May 1981. Saturn Jupiter - completes M. Sc - got job of junior 

Engineer. Saturn is aspecting 10th house from 8th. Saturn is Lagna 

lord in D/9 and D/10. 


M.Tech. in Electronics (Based on Article by Naval Singh-Journal 
of Astrology, April-June 2000). 


M.Tech. in Electronics (lecturer) 
DOB: 4.10.1966, 08:55 AM Lat 28N39 Long 77E 13. 


216 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


Sun Atmakarka, Venus AMK 

Main Features : 

1. Fifth lord is Saturn in the 6th house in the Rasi of Jupiter. It is 
aspected by exalted Jupiter from the 10th house, by Mars lord 
of two and Seven, by Venus lord of Lagna and lord of 11 Sun. 
Venus is also lord of eight where Moon is placed and is exalted. 
Mercury and Ketu are in Lagna in the sign of Venus. Thus all 
planets have connection with 5th lord assuring nigh education. 

2. Mercury, the Karka for education is strong Digbali in Kendra. 
Similarly, Jupiter is exalted in the 10th. 

3. Mars, a technical planet, which is aspecting 5th house and 5th 
lord, is in a fiery Rasi (electronic). Sun, who is aspecting 5th 
house, being a fiery planet represent electricity and electron. 
Venus shows sophisticated equipment. 

Jupiter is non technical planet but is in Nakshatra of Saturn (a 
technical planet). 


There is connection between 5th and 10th houses as Jupiter 
from 10th aspects 5th lord Saturn. Saturn is in the Rasi of 
Jupiter who is exalted in 10th. It is also in the Nakshatra of 
Jupiter. There is connection between education and profession. 

7. From Moon: 5th from Moon has fiery Sun and Venus aspected 
by Saturn. The 5th lord from Moon is Mercury (communication) 
associated with Rahu/Ketu (electrons). 

Gemini Angle 

Karkamsa Lagna is Gemini (Mithun). The 10th house from 

Karkamsa Lagna has Saturn (a technical planet) and is aspected 

by fiery Sun (electronics and electricity) and Venus from Rasi of 

Mercury (mathematics). 


10th House 217 


Computer Science - M.Tech., PhD. 
2nd January, 1964,16:00, 


Lagna 28°42’, Jupiter 17°31°,Saturn 27° 12' 
Main Features 
1. Sth House: is aspected by a strong Jupiter who is in his own 
house in eleven. Jupiter is in the Nakshatra of Saturn 9th and 
10th lord, This promises good education and establishes a link 
between 10th and 5th houses. 
5th lord Mercury is in the 8th with 4th lord Sun making a Raj 
Yoga. Mercury is planet of mathematics and communications 
and is with Sun and Mars, technical planets in a fiery Rasi. It is 
with Ketu (computers). Mercury is in the Nakshatra of Venus 
who is in the Rasi of Saturn and is with Saturn a technical 
planet. 
2. Fifth house from Moon has the aspect of Jupiter (teacher and 
high intellect). Jupiter has the aspect of Saturn. 
Fifth lord form Moon is Mars who is with Sun and Ketu. 
3. Sth lord from Mercury is again Mars. 
The influence of Sun, Mars, Ketu, Venus, Saturn and fiery Rasis 
predominate which show technical education in the field of 
electronics and Computer Science. The native is B. Tech electronics 
M. Tech (Computer Science). 
Dasha Scheme : 
Venus-Rahu (July 1982). Joined B. E. (Electronics) after passing 
through a competitive examination. Venus is Lagna lord in nine, 
(the alternate house of education being 5th from 5th). Venus is with 
Yoga Karka Saturn (technical) lord of 9 and 10 duck and distinction). 
Rahu is exalted and is a technical planet and is in its own Nakshatra 
and in the Rasi of Mercury whose lord (dispositor) is the 5th lord 
from Lagna. 


218 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


Venus-Jupiter (July August 1986) Jupiter is well placed in the 
11th in its own house aspecting the Sth. It is in 3rd from Venus 
aspected by Yoga Karka planet Saturn. Jupiter is also in the 
Nakshatra of Mercury as stated earlier. 

Sun-Saturn (August 1997) - Joined Ph. D. in a foreign country. 
Sun is the 4th lord with 5th lord Mercury creating a Raj Yoga in the 
house of research the eight, with two technical planets lord of 7 
(Pad Prapti) Mars and Ketu. Mars is lord of 12 also (foreign). The 
Rahu ketu axis as my book "Planets and Foreign Travel" shows 
give foreign travel. It is happening in the 8th house of crossing of 
seas. 

Saturn is the Yogakarka planet. As lord of 10 it promises distinction 
and as lord of nine higher education and travel abroad. Saturn is 
also technical planet in the Nakshatra of Mars. The connection of 
Dasha lord with 5th, 9th, eight and 12th houses or their lords and 
technical planets is responsible for the studies/research in the field 
of computer science in a foreign country. 


Profession: Hotel Management 
(Based on article by Naval Singh published in Journal of Astrology 
July-September 2000) 
It is very competitive course and for getting admission into this 
course proper educational background is needed. For that 5th house 
becomes important. Then there should be connection between 5th 
and the 10th houses as this is profession-oriented course. The second 
house deals with food and Karka for hotels is Venus. The fourth 
house represents buildings or hotels. There should be connection 
between all these factors. 
DOB 11.09.1977,20.44. 


10th House 219 


Navamsa 


Sun is the 5th lord placed in the 5th with 10th lord Saturn promising 
high education and establishing a link of education with profession. 
Sun is in the Nakshatra of Venus who is 2nd and 7th lord placed in 
the 4th house. Venus represents hotels. 

In Navamsa Venus and Mars are in the 7th, house of business. 
Mars 5th and 10th lord and Venus is lord of 4 and 11. Mars is 
aspecting 2nd house of food and wealth. 

In Dasamsa chart the 5th and 10th lord Mars is associated with 
4th and 11 th lord Venus in the 4th house and aspect the second lord 
Sun and 10thhouses. PAC link of 5th, tenth and Venus is established 
in all the three divisional charts. There is also a linkage with 2nd 
and 4th house. 


220 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


Profession in the Sky 

Based on an article by Preeti Kapoor published in Journal of 

Astrology July-Sept 2000 

Pilots 

Main Features common to Pilot and Air Hostesses 

Houses Involved 

Lagna 

Third house — short journey, courage, perseverance. 

Fourth house vehicles 

Seventh house, foreign journey 

Ninth house, long j ourney 

Tenth house Karma, profession 

Twelfth house, foreign land 

There should be some combination and interrelation of houses/ 

lords. 

Planets Involved 

1. Rahu representing things foreign, Mlecchha. 

2. Saturn airy tatwa, long hours of duty, hard work. 

3. Jupiter - Intelligence - Aakash Tatwa 

4. Venus - vehicles, personal charm. 

These planets must combine with the above houses. 

Rasis Involved 

a) Movable Rasis (1,4,7, 10) 

b) Dual Rasis (3, 6, 9 and 12) 

c)  Aijry tatwa Rasis (3, 7 and 11) 

Special features for Pilots 

A) Technical planets (Mars, Saturn, Sun , Rahu and Ketu)- for 
operating aircrafts. 

B) Venus - vehicles, sophisticated machinery. 

C) Third house, communication. 

Association of above planets houses/lords, 12th house/lord. 

Air Hostesses 

a) Second house, food , connection with 1 Oth house lord. 

b) Glamour, good looks and sweet manners 

c) Connection of Venus with Lagna, 10th house of profession. 

d) Combinations for frequent travel, houses, 9 12, 7, 8 and 4 
(residence moving) and 3rd short journeys. 


NAUARWN He 


10th House 221 


Pilots and Airhostesses are paid well. They must have "Dhan Yogas" 
in their horoscopes. 

Air Traffic Controllers : 

Technical planets. 

3rd house. 

7th house, path, route. 

8th house, secrecy, secret police, protected fort (they work at 
protected place). 

5. 10th house profession. 

6.  12thhouse, secret planning. 

7, Rahu aviation jobs. 
8 
9 


RwNo 


Jupiter, quick intelligence. 
Inter relation of these planets. 
Dasha Operative : 
1. 12,3, 7, 9th houses and their lords. 
2. Dasha of Rahu 
Example 
Pilots : 
9.8.1945, 11:49 AM, Delhi, Lagna 11°16’, Sun23°11’, Moon 7°55’, 
Mars 18°17’, Mer 11°25', Jupiter 3°47', Venus 12°19’, Saturn 
25°30’, Rahu 15°36’. 


222 Analysing Heroscope Through Modern Techniques 


Naramisa 


bo 


Lagna lord is Venus. It is with Yoga Karka Saturn lord of 4 and 
5 and Rahu, Karka for foreign travel. 

Tenth lord Moon is in the 11 th house exchanging house with 11 
lord promising much money. Sun is ia the 10th in char Rasi 
invelving travel in connection with professioz. 

Moon and Mercury are aspecting 5th hoase of education. 
Mercury is 9th lord of travel, showing connection with travel 
and education or training. 

Moon the 10th lord is aspected by Saturn lord af 4 and five. 
Mercury is also lord of 12 foreign connection. 10th is profession, 
9th is travel, 12th house foreign and 4th and Sth education. 
Third lord is Jupiter in the 12th. Dispositer of Jupiter is Mercury 
with LOth lord. Three is journey and 12 is foreign. 

All planets are in char or Dwishbhav Rasis, eusuring movement 
and travel. 

Tenth lord is placed in Nakshatra of Kein a technical planet 
making 3/9 axis. 


Pilot No. 2 

11 March, 1959,02:30 AM, Amritsar Jupiter, 08°36\ Saturn 12°41’, 
Lagna 08°43’,Mer. 14°21\Sun 26°15\Moon 12°22\Mars20°13\ 
Veaus 24°27) Rahu 19°4\ 


idth House 223 


1. Most of the planets are placed in Dwishdhav Rasis. 


2 


Moon and Mercury are placed in the fourth suggesting constant 
travelling. 


10th lord of profession Mercury aspecting its own house with 
Venus (technical work) and in Rahu Ketu axis. 


Lagna and 4th house lord Jupiter in 12 suggesting foreign 
connection. Pilots are required to stay abroad on short trips, 
hence this connection. Jupiter is in Nakshatra of Saturn (08°367) 
ary fatwa planet. 


Lord of wealth 2nd house Saturn, an airy tatwa planet, as also 
lord of three short journeys in Lagna aspecting LOth house of 
profession, third house of short journeys and 7th, 10th from 
10th as also relating to foreign places. 


Lord of 5 in six aspecting 12 foreign and Lagna and 4th lord 
Jupiter. The dispositor of Mars 1s Venus exalted in 4 with lord 
of 10 Mercury in Rahu/Ketu axis. 


Tenth lord Mercury is in Nakshatra of Saturn (127417) a 
technical planet. 


224 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


Air Hostess 
14.04.1976, 11:55 AM, Delhi 


Ven Sun Jup 
Mer Ket Mar 


Lagna 2°33\ Sun 06°54\ Moon 27°41\ Mars 19°21 Mer 14° 10’, 
Jup 10°53\ Ven 13°43\ Sat 2°46’, Rahu 19°01’ 


1. 


Attractive Personality: Lagna lord is Moon aspected by exalted 
Venus. Venus in the Nakshatra of Saturn who is in Lagna. 


All planets in char or Dwishhhav Rasis. 


Lagna is movable, its lord in Dwishbhav Rasi and Saturn an 
airy planet in Lagna. 


Dispositor of Venus is Jupiter in the 10th with exalted and 
Digbali Sun lord of wealth with Mercury lord of 3 and 12, 
short journeys and foreign in Rahu / Ketu axis (meeting foreign 
people/ foreign journeys). There is connection of profession , 
money, travel and foreigners. 


2nd lord in 10 also means connection of food with profession. 


10th lord is Mars in 12 (foreign) in the Nakshatra of Rahu 
(foreign). 


Venus exalted. Its dispositor Jupiter in 10th - connection of 
glamour and profession. 


Dasha: She joined as an air hostess in Dasha of Rahu / Mars / 
Mercury. 


10th House 225 


Air Hostess 2 
DOB &th October, 1957, 11.10 AM 


1. 


2: 


Son, Jup 
0 Mer 
Mars 


Hostess in the Dasha of Ketu/Moon/Saturn 


Lagna lord in 11 with 10th lord Sun. Lagna lord is in the 
Nakshatra of Moon, 9th lord. 

Attractive personality - Venus and Saturn in Lagna and aspect 
of Moon on Lagna lord. 

4th lord and 3rd lord Saturn with Venus lord of 7 as well as 12 
(foreign). 

Venus has Rahu in 12 in one ofits signs. 


226 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


Combinations for Authors, Writers and Poets: 

1. In Navamsa if Jupiter aspects 5th house or 5th lord one becomes 
a serious and desirable author. 

2. In the birth chart if Jupiter influences 5th from Mercury one 
gets the same results. Confirm this in Navamsa. 

3. Jupiterin 10 gives idealism, Mercury gives humour, Mars gives 
caustic remarks. Writing has quick logic. 

4. Sun, Mercury and Venus in 2 make one a poet- (Horoscope of 
Dr. Rabindra Nath Tagore.) 

5. Lord of Drekkan of 5th lord or of J upiter or Mercury in Kendra 
or kona aspected by favourable planets. 

6. Rahu in the 5th. 
7. Jupiter powerful in 2nd. 

8. Lord of 4th house, Jupiter, Venus and Mercury in own house, 
exalted in Kendra or kona. 

9. Mercury in eleven gives keen intellect and higher education. 

10. Mercury and Venus in 10 from Moon good for higher education, 
wealth and good wife. 

11. Jupiter and Venus give same results. 

12. Sun, Moon and Mercury give education, name and fame. 

13. The combination of Sun, Moon and Jupiter, Sun Mercury and 
Jupiter and Sun Mercury and Venus is good for higher education 
and learning. 

14. Fifth lord in 9th with Yogakarka planet and 11 lord give good 
academic achievements as also wealth. 

15. Mercury in Lagna or lord of two in two or lord of one in two 
and second house, its lord, Lagna lord and Mercury associated 
with benefics. 

16. Jupiter, Mercury Venus in nine. 

17. Jupiter in 9 aspected by Mercury and Venus 

18. Jupiter in 9 aspected by Moon and Saturn 

19. The 10th house is the house of achievement, The exalted or 
benefic planets sometimes show great achievements in 
educational field or the field of knowledge as it is through the 

10th house that one receives recognition or fame. 

20. If Jupiter is in the 2nd and if Moon or Mercury is posited in the 

10th in Trikona from Jupiter the person has good and bright 
academic career. 


227 


21. If the lord of Navamsa occupied by lord of 10 is posited in a 
Kendra or Trikona in a Rasi chart and if Jupiter aspects the 
10th person has a bright educational background. 

22. Placement of Jupiter and Mercury in 2nd or 10th. 

23. The mutual exchange between the lord of 2 and 10 is good for 
education. 

24. The lord of Drekkan or Navamsa occupied by 1 Oth lord is 
exalted in Kendra or Trikona. 

25. According to Parasara 5th lord in the ninth makes one an 
illustrious author. 

26. According to Varahamihira Sun in Virgo, gives skill in writing, 
painting, poetry philosophy and mathematics. 

27. Where lord of 10th house is in Navamsa owned by Mercury, 
earning will be through composing of poems, by being a writer, 
astrologer etc. Phala Deepika. 

Yogas given in the Classical Books for Authors Writers : 

1. Saraswati Yoga : 

The benefic Jupiter, Venus and Mercury occupy Kendras or Trikonas, 

1, 4, 7and 10 houses or 5 or 9 Houses either jointly or singly. Jupiter 

should be strong in its own, exaltation or friendly sign. 

Result: Poet, famous, rich and learned in all sciences. 


2. Gandharva Yoga : 

10th lord is in a Kama Trikona, houses 3, 7 and 11. Lagna lord and 
Jupiter together, Sun being strong exalted and Moon in the 9th. 
Result: High skill in fine arts (music, dancing and painting and well 
dressed and strong and rich). 


3. Kalanidhi Yoga: Jupiter in 2nd or 5 in the Rasi of Mercury or 
Venus and aspected or conjunct with Mercury, and Venus. 
Result: Proficiency in art including music. 


4, Sunapha/Anapha/Durudhara Yoga formed by Mercury or 
Venus give proficiency in fine arts. 


5. Pancha Mahapurush Yogas Malaviya and Bhadra with Venus 
or Mercury - skill in fine arts. 


228 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


Sir Arthur Conan Doyle: Author of Sherlock Holmes 


Lag 
dup 
i 


Sa 


Sit Arthur 
Conan Doyle 


30.5-1859 
Edintiura 


See the aspect of 3 benefic planets on the 5th house from Lagna 
and 10th from Moon and aspect of 9th lord Saturn on 5th lord 
Venus. There is exchange of 4th and 5th lords from Moon. 


Amrita Pritam 31.8.1919, 13:49 

A poet, novelist, and short story writer, Amrita has written more 
than 75 books. She was a versatile writer and the first woman 
recipient of Sahitya Akademi Award 1955. In 1982 she got Bharati 
Jnanpith award. Most widely read novelist and poetess her works 
are widely translated in major Indian and foreign languages. French 
Govt. conferred honorary degree on her. A Georgian Composer 
has dedicated his music to her. Several Universities have conferred 
honorary degrees on her. 
An astrologer, Kaka, Mahatma from Maharashtra said that her 
horoscope was that of a saint, a pious meditator and not of poetess 
or writer. (See the aspect of Saturn and Mars on Moon). 
Main Features 
1. Third lord of writing Saturn is with Digbali Sun lord of 10 in ten. 
2. Third lord from Moon Jupiter is exalted and again in 10 from 
Moon. 
3. 5th lord Jupiter is exalted in 9th and is with Lagna lord forming 
Raj Yoga. The combination is with significator of writing and Karka 
of intellect Mercury. 
4. The Karka of poetry Venus is in 11 aspecting 5th house. It is in 
12th from Moon and second from Sun forming anapha and Vesi 
Yoga making her talented poetess and author. It is debilitated but 


10th House 22 


.~ 


has a Neech Bhanga Rajayoga. 

5. Mercury, the planet of art is Atmakarka and is with exalted Jupiter 
and Lagna lord Mars in 9th, the house trinal to 5 th of high intelligence. 
6. The fifth from Karkamsa Lagna (Aquarius) is Gemini which has 
the Gemini aspect of Venus, the planet of poetry. 

7. The 5th from Mercury is Scorpio which is aspected by Mercury, 
exalted Jupiter and Lagna lord Mars (Jaimini aspect). 


Amrita Pritam 
31-8-1919 


Novelist and 
Poetess 


Navamsa 
Ketu 
Mer 
Navamsa 
Lagna Sun 
Ven Rahu 


Combination for Musicians : 

1. Uttarkalamitra allots Music to the 7th house. The 7th house 
assumes importance. Here lord of third of arts is good. 
Third house also represents, voice (throat, hands for 
instrumental music and ears for enjoying the ecstasy of 
music. The combination of 3rd and 7 is good for music. 


230 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


2, According to Jatak Parijat female born in Trimsamsa of 
Mercury is fond of and music- vocal as well as instrumental. 

3, According to Bhavarth Ratnakar Venus in 4th makes one 
proficient in Music. 

Venus is Karka of music, dancing and fine arts. Venus in the houses 

of education 2nd, 4th, 5th or 9th is equally goodfor giving proficiency 

in music. 

4. Fourth Bhava and lord should be strong and be in Moon's 
Vargas with Venus in 4th. 

5. Lagna lord and lord of the Moon sign are in the third or 3rd 
lord connected to Lagna or Lagna lord. 

6. Lagna lord and lord of Moon sign are having connection 
with the 4th house/lord. 

1 Venus should be strong in 3rd, 4th, 5th, 10th and 11 houses 
from Lagna or Moon. 

8. Moon and Mercury are also important. 

9. The houses concerned are 2,3,4, 5,6, 7,10 and 11. 

10. The signs Important are of Venus, Moon and Mercury. 

11. The disposition of Moon in the Lagna or in the Sth house 
gives flair for music. 

12. According to Maharishi Jaimini "If Moon joins the first or 
the 5th of Karkamsa, the person becomes clever in Sankhya 
Shastra, learned in languages, poetry, drama and attendant 
subject will have great proficiency in music and the 
accomplishments.” 

Classical Yogas for Music : 

13. Veena Yoga: All seven planets occupying any seven signs. 
Result skill in music and dance. 

14. Gada Yoga: A Nabhas Yoga. All planets occupying two 
adjacent Kendras. 

15. Bhaskar Yoga: Mercury in 2nd from Sun, Moon in 11 th from 
Mercury and Jupiter in 5th or 9th from Moon. Result - well 
versed in music. 

16. Kalanidhi Yoga: Jupiter in 2nd or 5th house in the Rasi of 
Venus or Mercury aspected by Mercury and Venus. Result 
- proficiency in music. 


232 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


as Moon. 

Birth in Tula Lagna, an auspicious sign of Venus, where many 
great personalities of the world in art and spiritual field have 
taken birth. According to Mansagri a person bom in Tula Lagna 
is proficient in fine arts, a wealthy scholar, famous and 
appreciated by all for good deeds. 


Horoscope of Lata Mangeshkar - the Nightingale of India 
Lata Mangeshkar 
28.9.1929,22:14:59, Indore 


oe 


She has sung more than 50,000 songs in 20 Indian languages and 
was awarded Bharat Ratan, highest civilian award in the year 2001. 


1. 


Moon the third lord of throat in its own house very strong with 
6 benefic points in its own Ashtak Varga. 

The 7th lord from Moon Saturn aspecting 3rd from Moon. 
Third from Moon very strong with exalted own lord. It is with 
Sun giving Budhaditya Yoga. 

Venus in the 4th. 

The 4th lord from Lagna Sun with exalted 5th lord making 
Kendra Trikona Raj Yoga. 

Jupiter aspecting 5th house from Lagna. 5th house is the pivotal 
point. Mercury the 2nd and 5th lord is Vargottam with Sun 4th 
lord. They are aspected by Yogakarka Saturn. 

Lagna lord in 4th - Kendra Trikona combination. 

Saturn from Kodanda Rasi aspecting its own 10th lord. 


232 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


as Moon. 

Birth in Tula Lagna, an auspicious sign of Venus, where many 
preat personalities of the world in art and spiritual field have 
taken birth. According to Mansagri a persou bom in Tula Lagua 
is proficient in fine arts, a wealthy scholar, famous and 
appreciated by all for good deeds. 


Horoscope of Lata Mangeshkar - the Nightingale of India 
Lata Mangeshkar 
28.9.1929,22:14:59, Indore 


She has sung more than 50,000 songs in 20 Indian languages and 
was awarded Bharat Ratan, highest crvilian award im the year 2001. 


i. 


Moon the third lord of throat in its own house very strong with 
6 benefic points in its own Ashtak Varga. 

The 7th lord from Moon Saturn aspecting 3rd from Moon. 
Third from Moon very strong with exalted own lord. It 15 with 
Sun giving Budhaditya Yoga. 

Venus in the 4th_ 

The 4th lord from Lapna Sun with exalted 5th lord making 
Kendra Trikona Raj Yoga. 

Jupiter aspecting 5th house from Lagna. 5th house 1s the pivotal 
point. Mercury the 2nd and 5th lord is Vargettam with Sua 4th 
lord. They are aspected by Yogakarka Saturn. 

Lagua lord in 4th - Kendra Trikona combination. 

Saturn from Kedenda Rasi aspecting its own 10th lord. 


/ Oth House 233 


9. All the three Lagna, Moon and Sun are strong. 

10. She has Mahabhagya Yoga. 

11. According to Varahamihira Sun in Taurus makes one clever in 
drumming and music. 


Madonna 
16.08.1958, 7:05 AM, Bay City (USA) 


Born in a humble family she rode to stardom in the field of singing 
pop music and dancing and became one of the richest women in 
America. 


234 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


The 10th lord is Venus. It is in the Rasi of Moon (music). Moon is in 
Rasi Parivartan with Lagna lord Sun. Moon and Mercury are in 
Lagna. Thus the planets of art Venus and Mercury are affecting all 
the three Lagnas, Sun, Moon and Ascendant itself. The lord of nine 
is in nine aspected by lord of five Jupiter, another combination for 
proficiency in art. This is in Rahu Ketu axis (unconventional). Lagna 
is Vargottam. Third lord of performing artist is with Sun (combination 
of arts) aspected by the lord of luck Mars. 

Naina Devi: Famous Thumri singer 

(Full sketch of her is published in the book "Famous Women" 

published under the guidance and editorship of K.N. Rao). 

Naina Devi 27.9.1917, 01:48 AM Kolkata Main Features. 

1. Sun under Vesi, Vasi, Yogas with artistic planets Venus and 
Mercury. 

2. Venus in the 4th house in its own sign forming Malviya Yoga. 
Venus is aspected by the 5th and 10th lord Mars making a Raj 
Yoga. 

3. Fifth and tenth lord, Yoga Karka Mars in Lagna debilitated but 
having debilitation cancelled aspected by the 7th lord Saturn 
making another Raj Yoga. 

Third lord Mercury in Rasi Parivartan Yoga with Sun lord of 
two. 

5, Jupiter: lord of nine aspecting Lagna lord Moon as also the 5th 
house. 


6. Rasi Parivartan between Lagna and 7th lord. 

In Navamsa three planets Sun, Moon and Venus exalted, Mars in 
its own house and Rasi Parivartan between Jupiter and Mercury. 
Naina Devi 27.9.1917, 01:48 AM, Kolkata. 


10th House 235 


Nobel Prize Winner for literature, founder of Rabindra Sangeet 
and University of Viswabharati 

Main Features; Saraswati Yoga 

1. Sun Mercury and Venus in the second house. Sun is exalted. 
This is combination for poets and musicians. 


2. Lagna lord exalted in the 5th house a Raj Yoga ofa high order. 
3. Rasi Parivartan between Lagna and Sth lord Jupiter and Moon. 
4, Rasi Parivartan between Mercury and Mars, 4th and 9th lords. 


4. Lagna lord Jupiter aspecting its own house. 


236 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


Amjad Ali Khan , famous Sarod Player 
Mar 
Raha 
= 
ATijad ‘ 


Ali Khan 
Wen 


Lag Moon [Jp Sun 
Ketu Mer | 
Main Features 


1. A very powerful Raj Yoga in the 10thhouse. 7th & 10thlord 
Mercury exalted making Bhadra Yoga with 9th lord Sun who 
has directional strength as also with Jupiter Lagna lord. 

2. Second lord Saturn aspecting its own house of wealth. 

Lord of 5 Mars in seven aspecting Lagna. 

4. Influence of artistic planets Mercury, Venus and Jupiter on 
Sun and Moon. (Anapha Yoga) 

Combination for Film Artists: 


~ 


It has been observed that following planetary combinations occur 
in the people who have something to do with film industry. 


1. Mars is found to be strong and forms connection with 
Rahu. Rahu is Karka for good speech, disguises, acting 
and magic. 


2. Rahu as shadowy planet deals with photography and forms 
a connection with Moon. 


3. Rising signs Aries and Scorpio are important and recur 
quite often. 


4. Chander Mangal Yoga in any house is frequently common. 
This Yoga gives great initiative, and makes good actors. 


5. Sign Gemini is prominent. It has association with film industry. 
According to Saravali Venus in Gemini makes one expert in 
sculpture, painting, poetry, music, drama and acting. 


14, 
i) 


10th House 237 


Jupiter, Venus and Mercury assume importance. Mercury 
is Karka for music, dancing and poetry. 


According to Brihat Jatak Mercury Jupiter conjunct give 
a flair for singing and dancing. 


Jupiter Venus is a combination for music composers. 
Saturn is Karka for disguise and acting. 


Veena Yoga: Lover of music dance and drama. 8th lord 
exalted in 3rd and benefic 2nd lord in second. 


Malefics in 11 with Mars and Venus give wealth through 
music and dance. 


About Moon Parasara says, ‘It has auspicious looks and 
sweet speech. ' Mercury has an attractive body, is witty 
and has a sense of humour. 


Parasara describes Venus as joyful , charming in physique 
with brilliant eyes and is poet. 


Varahamihira has given following combinations : 


Mercury involved in Sunapha or Anapha Yoga (2nd or 
12) from Moon makes one skilful, sweet in speech and 
learned in arts. 


ii) When Mercury and Jupiter join they produce a man who 


itt) 


iv) 


Vv) 


appears on the stage (meaning acting). According to 
him a person with Mercury Venus is fond of music, 
dancing and good speech. 

Saturn Mercury combination gives artistic abilities, 
ordinary writing and painting. Mercury Venus man is 
fond of dancing, eloquence and protection of lands and 
assembly. Venus Saturn gives artistic ability. 


Mercury in Gemini makes one skilled in arts and 
sciences. 


Sun Venus combination makes money on stage. 


238 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


15. ‘1 Oth lord in the Navamsa of Venus lives through music, 
singing or dancing (wife may be actress)- or poetic talents 
(also silken and expensive dress material).' Phala 
Deepika. 


16. Venus in Aries especially own Navamsa - Art and Music. 


17. ‘Jupiter, Mercury and Sun in Lagna-expert in arts and 
poetry. ' Mansagri 


18. Venus Saturn combine in Lagna or the 1 Oth house makes 
one proficient in art and music. 


19. Venus Mercury Saturn in 10 or Lagna. 
20. Venus Mercury in Lagna or 10. 


21. Jupiter and Mercury is a combination for comedy. 
According to K.N. Rao 3rd house and 3rd lord from the birth 
horoscope and the Karkamsa are very significant factors for 
performing arts. Alongwith it the 6th house and 6th lord and 9th 
lord seem to become very important. 

Case of Marilyn Monroe taken from the book 'Karkamsa Lagna 
and Jaimini's Manduk Dasha’ By K.N. Rao 


Marilyn Monroe Hollywood's most glamorous actress. She was 
born on Ist June 1926. 9:30 am Los Angeles (Taken from K.N. 
Rao's Book Mandook Dasha.) From her Karkamsa in the birth 
horoscope both Moon and Venus aspect the third house, Simha. 
Fame giver Saturn aspects 10th lord Jupiter from Karkamsa Lagna. 


sat (R} 
28°33" 


i(R} 


AK-Saturn, Karkamsa Lagna-Gemini 


Atma Karka Saturn 
Horoscope of Nargis Dutt 1.6.1929 5:07 Kolkata 


Ven 
Rahu 


Nargis 
Dun 


240 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


Nargis is beautiful because the majority of benefics are in Kendras. 
2nd lord Mercury another planet representing beauty is in the Lagna 
"2nd and 12 lords if benefic and join Lagna give a beautiful 
body." 


Venus Rahu in Kendra to Mars is combination of death due to 
cancer. 


4. Venus with Saturn is a combination for cinema world. 


Raj Kapur exalted Saturn with Venus in 4 in Libra. Moon and 
Rahu in Lagna Cancer. Yogakarka Mars in 9 Pisces. 


Jupiter, Mercury and Sun is in 6. 


Horoscope of Raj Kapur 


Lag 
Moon 
Rahu 


= a a 


Navainsa 


Navarmesa 


10th House 241 


Mercury and Jupiter represent comedy. Sun gives it a serious touch. 
Sun Mercury and Jupiter is also a combination for art. 

Amitabh Bachchan 

Saturn and Moon in Rasi of Venus, 3 planets with Venus in Virgo, 
Rasis Taurus, Libra of Venus and Virgo of Mercury has all the 
concentration of planets. 

Amitabh Bachchan 11th October, 1942 taken from the Book 
Karkamsa and Jaimini Mandook Dasha 


Amitabh 


Bachchan 


Navamsa. 


Mar 

Jup 

R 
Navamsa dels 


Ket Sun 
Moon Mer 


"Exalted Jupiter is Vargottam. Karkamsa Lagna is Leo. Tenth from 
it is Saturn fame giver. From Lagna the third house is aspected by 
Moon while the third lord Mars is with debilitated Venus. From 
Karkamsa Lagna the Moon together with Vargottama Jupiter 


243 Anaiviing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


aspects the 10th house. No wonder world has known no other actor 
adored by billions in term of numbers. _. says K.N_ Rao and 
again according to him. “things to remember are if Satum or Mercury 
are aspecting the Kartkamsa ot/and the 10th from it is well known 
combimation for fame.” 

Then see “if Moon and Venus are aspecting the 10th house 
from Karkamsa and Kartkamsa itself That is also a combination 
for fame.” EN. Rao 


hap | 
Raha Mar 
Moon 


Fatnous Artist 


a 
| 


Here again thud house is very strong having its own lord m it with 
lord of five Sun and lord of nine Jupiter aspected by lord of ten 
Satum. This is a very strong Raj Yoga. Moon, Satum and Venus 
are in. tine from each other. These are the planets for performing 
artists. 

Rajoi Kant, 12.12.1950, 23:55 


rn! 
Raji Kant 

ficon 

Mars Lag 


Wen Sal 
Sun 


Ot House 343 
[Sen 
Moon 
Peel) peel 
Navarrisa oo 


Atma Karka is Sun. Karkamsa Lagna Pisces 

Third and tenth lord is Venus in the 5th with Mercury lord of 2 and 
11. Mercury is exalted in Navamsa 

2. Venus again is strong in Navamsa in its own house with exalted 
Moon. 


3 Karkamsa Lagna is Pisces aspected by Saturn. 

4. From Moon Lagna this horoscope becomes clear. Sunapha and 
Anapha yogas with Jupiter, Mercury and Venus. 

Aishwarya Rai 

1.11.1973 ,Manglore, time 4:05 AM. 


Aishwarya 


Rai 
1-11-1973 


AK Moon, KL Virgo 

Saturn, Venus , Moon Rahu Ketu axis on 4/10 is for connection 
with films and public. 

Moon again has connection with Venus, Mercury Jupiter and Saturn, 
a typical combination for stardom. 


244 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


Navamsa 


The Yogas for Art and Music as given in the classical books are : 

1. Chamara Yoga: Lagna lord exalted in Kendra aspected by 
Jupiter or a benefic occupying Lagna, 7, 9 or 10. 

2. Bhaskra Yoga: Mercury in 2nd from Sun, Moon in 11 from 
Mercury and Jupiter in Sth or 9th from Moon. 


Bhaskra Yoga 


: } Lag 
jae om 1] | 


In this Yoga Jupiter is in Trikona from Moon and Mercury is in 2nd 

from Sun causing vesi Yoga. 

3. Gandharva Yoga: 10th lord in 3, 7 or 11. Sun exalted or strong 
Moon in the 9th, Lagna and Jupiter together. 

4. Saraswati Yoga: Three benefics Mercury, Jupiter and Venus in 
the houses of education 2, 3, 4, 5, 9 and 10. 

5. Veena Yoga. 
Sunapha/Anapha Yoga. 


10th House 245 


Bhadra or Malviya Yoga. 
Kalanidhi Yoga: Jupiter with or aspected by Venus or Mercury 
in or 5 in the Rasi of Venus or Mercury. 


Gada Yoga; Nabhas Yoga, all planets occupy two adjacent 
Kendras. 


246 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 
Profession - Business 


Business means money earned through own efforts via trade. A 
person will do business only if he has or is able to earn much profit. 
For which education is not so much important as business sense. 
1. So the businessmen will normally have plenty of Dhana Yogas 
and their 11thhouse would be strong. The 7th house is traditionally 
known as house of business and so is Tula Rasi. Tenth house will 
be involved in any case as it deals with occupation. A strong 10th 
house gives the ability to pursue right profession at the right time 
and make a success of it. The houses 2 and four are for accumulation 
of wealth. Their combination with 5th and 11 houses are good for 
wealth. If 5th and 12 houses are weak and so are Mercury and Sun 
there is tendency to accumulate money through illegal means. A 
weak Mars and a weak Saturn strengthen this tendency. This could 
be neutralized by a strong Jupiter. 


For the persons who make big empires in business and create new 
industries all the three Lagnas. Ascendant. Sun and Moon are very 
strong. These are the people who make new industries and roll in 
millions. 

The weak Lagna and weak Chandra Lagna are major handicaps 
for a person who wants to set up his own business. 

A weak Sun or Surya Lagna means lack of energy, poor stamina 
and vitality. It also means lack of initiative and gives a habit of 
dependence on others. They can't take vital decisions in life and 
avoid responsibilities. 

If one of the Lagnas is weak it should be compensated by the 
strength of the other. 

2. Businessmen must have plenty of enterprise, for this a strong 
Mars is necessary. 

3. Businessmen must be lucky also. They need a strong 9th house. 
4. Mercury is traditionally the planet of commerce. This should be 
strong. Venus has a role too, as it is also Goddess of wealth. 

5. A strong Jupiter is necessary for luck and a strong Saturn for 
perseverance and ability to do hard work. 

For persons who deal in jewellery combination of Venus Moon is 
necessary as it represents Jewellery. (Mercury Moon conjunction, 


10th House 247 


opposition or placement in 2/8 houses involves losses.) Rahu 
Mercury in | Oth house represent sudden gains as also sudden losses. 


Combinations given in Classical Texts 


1. According to Phala Deepika "Moon in Libra aspected by Venus 
makes one a trader. 


2. According to Hora Sara Moon in Libra makes the native clever 
in business. 


3. Again Moon in Virgo gives success in business. 


4. According to Jatak Tatwa Moon and Mars together promote 
business. 


5. The 10th lord in a Kendra, Trikona or in 1! house and aspected 
by benefics make the native a merchant trader. 


6. Maharishi Parasara has described Mercury and Moon belonging 
to Vaishya caste meaning those who deal with trade and agriculture. 
Mercury is significator for trade and Moon for agriculture. The 
planets Venus and Mercury belong to "Rajo Guna" meaning 
attached to worldly enjoyments. They represent desire longing and 
attachment. Thus Mercury and Venus give desire for earning money 
and enjoying so called good things of life including sexual 
attachments. 


7. According to Parasara Saturn belongs to "Shudra” class or 
meaning service in modern times. Its aspect on 1 Oth or 10th, lord is 
not good for starting one's own venture unless Saturn is strong. 


8. In classical books 'Dhana Yogas' have been defined. These 
have been given in a separate chapter on judgement of financial 
prosperity 

9. If there are five or more planets in the visible half, houses 7 to 12 
and 10th house and 10th lord is not aspected by Satum normally 
one is self independent in business. 

Same results occur if five or more planets are in 10, 11,12, 12 and 
3rd houses from Lagna. More than five planets in this position 
show the person has capability to pursue an independent vocation. 
10. There should be good Raj Yogas of Kendras and Trikonas 
combinations, which add strength to the horoscope. 


248 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


Henry Ford 30.7.1863 


Main Features : 

|. Five planets in the visible half from 7 to 12 houses giving 
strength to the horoscope. 

|, All the Three Lagnas Strong ; Lagna Scorpio is aspected by 
its own lord Mars. 

2. Moon is in the third house and is fully aspected by Jupiter. 
Jupiter is the fifth and second lord in eleven. A very potent 
combination for wealth. It is also aspected by Sun the 10th 
lord. Sun is with Mercury making ‘'Budhaditya Yoga’. 

Surya Lagna is aspected by its own lord Moon and is with 
benefic Mercury. The lord of five Jupiter aspects its own Rasi Pisces 
as a result the other sign Sagittarius or house of wealth is also 
strengthened. This is important principle. 

3. There is Dharm Karam Adhipati Yoga of combination of lords 


! Oth House 249 


of nine and ten, Sun and Moon. 
Conjunction of lord of 5 Jupiter with lord of seven Venus and 
lord of four is another Raj Yoga. The 4th represents Vehicles. 
Venus also, represents vehicles. Jupiter is lord of wealth two 
and is in the house of gains. 
In Navamsa Yogakarka Mars is in the 11 house of gains 
aspecting 2nd house of wealth whose lord Sun is in 5 aspecting 
11. 
Jupiter aspects house of gains 11 as also its lord Venus 
generating much wealth. 

Ram Krishan Dalmia: 7.4.1893, 10:42 AM. 


R_K. Dalinia 


A great industrialist. Builder of cement, sugar industries and founder 
of Dalmia Nagar. 
Yogas for Wealth 


1, 


All Lagnas are strong. Lord of Lagna Mercury aspects its own 
house the fourth. Therefore, the second house of Mercury 
Lagna is also strengthened. Lagna is also aspected by Saturn 
the lord of nine. Lagna is aspected by Moon lord of wealth. 
Moon is aspected by Jupiter its own sign lord. whose other 
house the 10th house which is also Surya Lagna is strengthened. 
Sun is, being Digbali, and is with two benefics, Mercury and 
Venus. It is also aspected by Saturn lord of 'bhagya’ nine. 
Mars aspects its own house 8th. This also strengthens the other 
Rasi of Mars in eleven. 

Lagna lord is in the 10th debilitated but has its debilitation 
cancelled. It is with Venus lord of 5 and is with Sun who has 
directional strength. It is aspected by lord of nine Saturn creating 


250 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


6. Jupiter aspects Moon 2nd lord from house of gains. 

7. According to Jatak Parijat when the Ist, 2nd or 11th houses 
are aspected by their own lords one becomes very rich. 

Jugal Kishore Birla, maker of Birla Temple, 23.5.1883 


1. Exalted Jupiter aspects its own house of fortune the 9th. 

2. 5 planets aspect Moon making a Raj Yoga of high order. 

3. Lord of wealth Sun is in house of gains with Mercury planet of 
commerce. 

Tenth house has its own lord Mars Digbali with lord of 11 and 
4 Venus. 


- 


251 


Elevated Souls 

Horoscopes of Mahatmas 
Introduction 
Swami Vivekanand once said all great movements precede by 
religious renaissance in India. Also asceticism should be every body's 
aim in life. 
Parameters 
1. Rasis Rising and role of Rasis-for birth of Mahatmas. 
Prominent Rasis - rising as Lagna are : 
Cancer: Shankar Acharya, Ramanuj Acharya, Swami Sivananda, 
Aurobindo Ghosh, Swami Paparamadas, Thyagraja. 
Leo: Chaitanya Mahaprabhu, Guru Nanak, Kanchi Paramcharya. 
Libra: Guru Govind Singh, Tulsi Das, K.N. Rao, NaRasimha Bharti. 
Sagittarius: Vivekanand, Dhirendra Brahmchari. 
Capricorn: Lord Mahavir, Jaytinder Saraswati, Swami Turinanda, 
Swami Prabhupad. 
Aquarius: Ramkrishna Parmhansa, J Krishnamurti, Yogi Harbhajan 
Singh. 
Scorpio: Sankaracharya of Sringeri, Yogananda, Mother Teresa. 
2. Houses 
To be a great Speaker second house - house of speech is important. 
Chitanya Mahaprabhu had 2nd and third houses aspected by their 
lords, Mercury and Venus planets of intelligence and poetry also 
making Saraswati Yoga. Third house means singing name of the 
lord to spread Bhakti movement. 
Guru Nanak also had Venus 3rd lord in its own third house. He also 
sent message of Bhakti through singing of hymns in the name of 
the lord. 
Swami Vivekanand had two benefic planets Mercury and Venus in 
2nd house. Mercury 10th lord interchanges with Saturn. 
Mantras Siddhi - Fifth house 
Samadhi - Eighth house 
Dharma - Ninth house - In Sanyasis 9th house its lord and Jupiter 
are strong. 
Strong Tenth house (Karmasthan) 
Which is more important 9 or 10? Parasara calls 9 as house of 
religious outlook. 10th of religious performance. 
Moksha, detachment, renunciation is represented by 12th house. 
Planets 
Saturn, Jupiter, Sun, Moon, Mercury, Ketu. Well placed with 


252 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


reference to each other. Trinal or Kendra position is important. 
Vargas, Navamsa, Drekkan and Vimsamsa. 

Jupiter in 9 and 10 gives Brahma Gyan 

Saturn in 10th or 12th gives Vairagya. 

Sun Rahu in 10 in 5th aspected by |0thlord gives 'Sanyas’. 
Moon Ketu give intuitive mind (in four or seven). 

Saturn Moon Jupiter make reformer of religion or ascetic. 

Saturn Moon give Vairagya, concentration. 

Atma Karka 

Sun as natural Atmakarka 

Parasara: Out of all the Karkas Atmakarka is the most important 
and has the prime say on the native just as the king is the most 
famous among the men of his country and is the head of all affairs 
and is entitled to arrest and release men. 

Just as the Minister cannot go against the king, the other Karkas 
cannot predominate in the affairs of the native. If the Atma Karka 
is adverse, other Karkas cannot give their benefic effects. Similarly 
if Atma Karka is favourable, other Karkas cannot predominate with 
their malefic influences. 

Observations: Jaimini Atmakarka Sun the natural Karka for soul is 
normally very strong in the horoscopes of the blessed ones. 

Atma Karka is the most powerful planet. It is like the Sun around 
which other planets revolve. If the Atmakarka is in exaltation or 
benefic Rasi or conjunction, though the person is in prison he may 
be liberated, will live in holy places and will get Moksha. 

Exalted Sun in the horoscopes Shankar Acharya, Ramanuj 
Acharya, Thyagraja. 

Lord Mahavir, J Krishnamurti, Yogananda, Anandmayo, in Navamsa 
Chaitanya Mahaprabhu. 

Vargottam Sun: Swami Vivekananda. 

Sun in own House: Swami Sivananda, Aurobindo Ghosh, Tulsi 
Das. 

Strong Atma Karka: Ramakrishna Parmahansa had exalted. Mars. 
9th from AK is exalted Venus aspected by Jupiter. 

Atma Karka in Pisces Navamsa gives Moksha. 

Atmakarka in Meena Navamsa the person will be fond of virtuous 
deeds and charities and will get Moksha. 

Jupiter joins the Navamsa with Atmakarka, well versed in Vedic or 
religious rituals, will have religious wisdom, good knowledge in 
Vedanta and will be religious. 

Jupiter in the 5th from Karkamsa or in Karkamsa - many branches 


10th House 253 


of knowledge, Vedic literature Raman Maharishi Horoscope - 
Aurobindo Ghosh. 

9th from Karkamsa benefics gives truth as in ideal. (Horoscope of 
Raman Maharishi). 

Karkamsa with Ketu has the aspect of Saturn, Tapaswi or recluse. 
Horoscope of Aurobindo Ghosh. 

Only Saturn and no other aspect makes one imposter. 

Atmakarka and Ketu in Navamsa aspect of Venus Deekshta or 
performer of Yajnas. (Horoscope of Kanchi Parmacharya). 

If there is benefic in the 12th while its lord is exalted or is conjunct 
or aspected by benefics, one will attain final emancipation. 
Parasara: If the fifth lord is in the 9th, native will be prince or equal 
to prince, will author treatises, be famous and shine in his race. 
Placement of 5th lord in 9th is good for authors. 

Vairagya 

‘Vairagya' should be the base on which the whole edifice of 
spiritualism stands. Mahatma Budha would have become a great 
king Chakarvartin - king of kings if Vairagya was not in the 
horoscope. According to Adi Shankar Acharya state of Smadhi is 
easy for those who have intense Vairagya. Smadhi comes easily to 
the people who can control their mind. From Samadhi comes true 
Knowledge, from true knowledge one gets liberation and from 
liberation one gets bliss. 

Vairagya is result of Saturn, Rahu, on mind or the 4th house and 
Moon (Karka for mind.) 

In hundred per cent of the cases Moon had the aspect of Saturn, 
Mars or Rahu or in Rasis of Mars aspected by Saturn or vice 
versa. See this in drekkan as also in Navamsa. 

Role of Moon 

Moon occupying the drekkan of Mars and receiving aspect of Saturn 
is combination for renunciation. 

Moon, Ketu, Saturn, Jupiter, form a powerful combination for a 
Mahatma. If this combines with Atmakarka Sun, it gives knowledge 
of the Self attained through Bhakti. 

Chaitanya Mahaprabhu - (Radha Krishan Bhakti) In horoscope of 
Chaitanya. Moon the 12thlord (Sanyas) of the horoscope and Karka 
for mind, is with Ketu, aspected by Saturn and Mars - Mind in 
trouble and searching. Jupiter also aspects the combination - devotion 
and Bhakti. Ketu - Jupiter is also spiritual combination. 

II Speaker of Truth - A good second house/lord, 

Ill Separation from Home 


254 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


2nd house - house of family 4th house - home, enjoyments 12th. 

Afflicted 7th house. 

Chaitanya Mahaprabhu - Saturn Rahu in seven First wife died of 

snakebite. Also afflicted 7th house in Navamsa also. 

IV Spiritual Attainment 

Concerned Houses 

9th - Dharma - combination with Sun and Moon Soul and mind 

connected with Dharma - if also first house fully engaged in 

spirituality. 

See also 9th from Sun and Moon. Combination of Karma and 

Dharma with self- Jupiter. 

Role of the 5th House. 

For Mantra Siddhi and for writing. 

For writing 

Special Role of Ketu as Karka for Moksha and Spiritual bliss. 

In houses 5, 9, 12 from Lagna or Moon 

1) Dispositors of Rahu and Ketu should not be related for 
spiritual uplift. 

2) Ketu in the 5th and 9th kindles the power of mind. It should not 
be afflicted and its dispositor should be well placed. 

3) Ketu gives best results for spiritual upliftment with lord of Lagna. 
9, or 5, and Jupiter aspect or placement or if these lords are in 
Trikona from Ketu. In that case it gives spiritual yearning in 
8th and 12th also. 

4) Ketu Moon Jupiter triangle is excellent. 

5) Ketu's association with Atma Karka or Sun or its trinal position 
with respect to these planets is excellent. 

Examples: Ketu in the 5th Adi Shankar Acharya, Ramanuj Acharya, 

Aurobindo Ghosh. 

Ketu in the 9th Vallabh Acharya 

Aspect of Jupiter on Ketu: Swami Moorkanandji, Raman 

Maharishis, Kanchi Paramacharya, Swami Prabhupad. 

Yogas 

A malefic planet in the 7th and some planet in 8th. - Parasara 

Similar verse a malefic in 7th - ascetic answering planet in the 9th. 

Ketu in the 12thshould be with 5th, 9th lords or Jupiter. Still Jupiter 

in 12is good. 

Vaishnav Yoga - Sun, Mercury, Venus plus Jupiter - Bhakti and 

Gyan. 


1 Oth House 255 


Saint Tulsi Das had it. Jupiter in 5th Aquarius Rasi, Moon in Lagna 
Tula and Sun, Mercury, Venus in Simha5. Sun in own sign. 
Placement of all the planets in benefic Rasi, Jupiter, Venus, Mercury 
and Sun is great asset. If Lagna is strong by being Vargottam one 
can do Sadhna with single minded devotion. " Jatak Parijat 


Horoscopes of Spiritually Elevated Souls 


Jagateury Adi 
Shankar Acharya 
253.3 446C 
Rate Doubtful 


Yudhishtar Saka 
2hh4-KN Ran 
Cips into Divinity 


If we take this as the exact horoscope, Exalted lord of 5 aspecting 
exalted 9th lord. 

Great philosophy of bhakti, is charity and Dharma. Four simple 
rules for spiritual conduct are: 

1. Recite Geeta and Vishnu Sahastranama. 

2. Meditate on the image of Lord Vishnu. 

3. Keep good company 

4. Give charities to the poor and needy. 


256 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


Men/Women with a Mission in Life 


(Taken from an article by K.N. Rao published in Journal of Astrology 

October - December 1998). 

Whether a person is with a Mission or not can be proved by applying 

following tests. 

A good Second House 

The second house is the house Nivam or the house of ethical conduct. 

Malefics in it show either no mission or deceit in the guise and the 

pretensions of a Mission. 

"Tf the second lord is conjunct with malefics and if the second house 

has malefics, such a person indulges in backbiting, is a liar, and 

becomes a patient of Vaat Roga.” Parasara 

A good tenth House 

Parasara says again “If there are malefics in the 10th and !1th 

houses the person indulges in lowly deeds and becomes hostile even 

to his kith and kin." 

If the 10th lord is debilitated or if there is malefic in the 10th house 

and there is malefic in the 10th from 10th or 7th house, one performs 

lowly deeds. 

After applying these tests, examine the following 

1. There should be benefics or benefic influences on the 2nd 
house. This will include the association of Yoga Karka planet 
for a particular Lagna and the 2nd house. 

2. Connection of Jupiter or benefics with the 1 Oth house/lord. 

3. Connection of Jupiter or benefics with the 10th house or the 
10th lord from Moon. 

4. Connection of Jupiter or benefics with the 10th house or 1 Oth 
lord from the 10th lord of birth horoscope. 

5. Connection of Jupiter and benefics with 10th to 10th house/ 
lord. 

Remember: If the 10th lord from Lagna is debilitated and / or the 

2nd house has malefics the suffermg of the person resulting from 

evil Karma will be endless. 


10th House 257 


Swami Vivekananda 
12.1.1863,6:33 AM, Kolkata 


I. Swami Vivekananda 

1. Condition of the 2nd House 

There are two benefics here Mercury, Venus and 2nd lord. Saturn 
exchanging places with 10th lord is with benefic Moon. 

2. Condition of 10th house/lord 

The 10th lord Mercury is with Venus in the second house of speech. 
Vivekananda was advertised in the U.S.A. as an orator by divine 
right. 

3. Condition of 10th house from the 10th (7th house) 
Aspect of Sun and Jupiter confirms this mission. 

4. Condition of the 10th house from the 10th lord. 

Jupiter is in the 10th house from the 10th lord. Mercury again confirms 
this Mission. Aspect of Mars shows fiery speeches he made. 

II. Swami Yogananda : 

Swami Yogananda 5 January 1893 8:14 PM. Gorakhpur 


258 


1. Condition of the 2nd House 

Jupiter and Yoga Karka Mars aspect the 2nd house. Presence of 
Saturn is a defect here. 

2. Condition of 10th house/ lord 

The 10th lord Venus is aspecting its own house. Aspect of Saturn 
is a blemish, which is removed by the aspect of Jupiter. 

3. Condition of 10th house from the 10th (7th house) 
Aspected by a powerful Moon 

4. Condition of the 10th house from the 10th lord. 

Powerful Moon is placed here. 

Mahatma Gandhi; (see the horoscope on page 27) 

1. Condition of the 2nd House 

Yogakarka Saturn is here. 2nd lord Mars is with two benefics. 

2. Condition of 10th house/ lord 

Moon in the tenth with 7 Bindus in Ashtak Varga. Popular mass 
leader. 

3. Condition of 10th house from the 10th (7th house) 
Seventh house aspected by its own lord with Jupiter there and 
aspect of 

two benefics. 

4. Condition of the 10th house from the 10th lord. 

Same as above. 

III. Mother Teresa 26-8-1910, 14:25 

She was one the greatest personalities of the 20th century who 
would be raised to Sainthood . Was awarded Nobel Peace Prize 
(1979) and Bharat Ratna in 1980. On her death French President 
paid tribute to her by saying "This evening there is less Love, less 
compassion, less light in the world." 


Mother Teresa 26-08-1910; 14:25 hrs Skopje Yugoslavia 


Mother 


Teresa 


10th House 259 


1. Second lord is Jupiter with exalted Mercury. 

2. Tenth lord Sun is Digbali is in its own house with Lagna lord Mars. 
3. 7" house has exalted Rahu in the Rasi of benefic Venus who is 
in the 9". 

4. 10"from 10 lord is same as above. 

5. Malefic in 7 and one planet in nine is a sanyas Yoga. 


Fall from Power 

Crisis in Career 

(Taken from Journal of Astrology April - June 2003 - A research 

done under guidance of K.N. Rao) 

The crisis or set back in career may come under following 

circumstances; 

1. Placement or association of 10" lord in 6", 8th or 10* house. 

2. In some cases Dasha Antar Dasha of 5" lord or planets placed 
in 5* house as 5" house is 8" from the 10". 

3. Dasha Sandhi or Dasha Chidra can show a change in 
career whether for good or bad depending upon the planets 
concerned. 

4. Transits of planets particularly Saturn or Rahu in the 5" or the 
10* house from Moon or Lagna. Transit of Saturn in the 10" 
house in case of politicians gives a fall. In other cases it may 
bring about a crisis in career. 

5. Saturn - Venus or Venus Rahu period must be carefully 
scrutinized. 

6. Dasha, Antar Dasha of afflicted or debilitated lords. 

7. Dasha of a retrograde planet or a planet aspected by retrograde 
planet can cause upsets in career. 

8. Saturn's aspect or transit over natal Sun can both be good or 
bad. 

9. Check from Jaimini angle Char Dasha /antar Dasha. The 
Dasha/ Antar Dasha of Rasis Leo or Sagittarius can be Rasis 
of fall or Rasis of rise in life. Pay attention to Atma Karka, 
Karkamsa Lagna and Gnati Karka , 


Case of Morarji Desai 
From K.N. Rao' Book Ups and Down in Career 


260 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 
29.2.1896, 12.58: Bilimoria: 12:58 Noon 


Asd 9° 50°, Sun 18° 17°, Moon 25° 06’, Mars 5° 40°, Mer 21° 55’, 
Jup R 7° 35’, Venus 15° 24’, Sat R 26° 41° Rahu 10° 54 
Navamsa 


1 Oth House 261 


Transit on the Day of Fall July 11, 1979 


Transit 
[1-7-1979 


Sun 24°, Moon 11° 8', Mars 16° 51',Mercury 19° Venus 12° 0’, 

Jup 19° Saturn 16° 36 ', Rahu 16° 01' 

Mahadasha: Mercury - Venus - Jupiter 7.5.1979 to 23.9.1979. 

Saturn was in Leo a period of ‘Sade Sati’, aspecting 10* from 

Moon. 

Jupiter in Cancer on his 10* lords also aspecting 10* house. 

Position of Moon: 

1. He was running ‘Sade Sati’. Saturn in a ‘Sade Sati’ or the 7* 
or the 10" from the natal Moon causes downfall, 

2. Moon in addition at time of fall must be afflicted by other 
malefics, Rahu in Leo and Mars from Taurus were doing 
it. 

3. The 10” from Moon and from Lagna as well must be afflicted. 

Now Mars in the 10* from Moon and Saturn in Leo afflicts 10* 

portending Morarji's fall. 

Note: In March 1977 Saturn from Cancer and Mars from 

Capricorn had afflicted Mrs. Indira Gandhi's Moon leading 

to her downfall. 


Mahadasha 

Dasha was Mercury Venus both in the 8". Both in Navamsa and 
Dasamsa Mercury and Venus were ill-placed in 6 and 8. 
Patyantra was of Jupiter, Karma lord transitting Cancer weakest 
house in Sarvashtak Varga and Saturn's Bhinnashtak Varga. In 
Dasamsa Jupiter with Rahu was afflicted by the 8 lord dord of 
intrigue) 


262 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


Sookshama of Moon from 11 July to 22™ July. Moon under affliction 
in D/9 and D/ 10. 

Transit on 11 July 1979. 

Satum and Mars aspect each other at 16° and Rahu and Saturn 
conjunct at 16°. R/K in transit close to Rahu Ketu natal and Ketu 
in transit close to Moon. 


Politicians 
Combination for Politicians : 


1. For high position in politics all Lagnas, Sun, Moon and Lagna 
should be strong. Sun's placement in Lagna 4th, 5th, 9th and 
10th houses is good. 

2. They should have plenty of Raj Yogas. Please see chapter on 
yogas. 

3. 9th, 10th and 11thhouses should be strong. 

4. Appropriate Dashas should come in life. 

5. Saturn as Karka for democracy should be strong. Saturn is a 
"Neta’ - a leader of masses. 

6. Lagna is exceptionally strong and normally Lagna/Lagna lord 
connects with Royal signs Cancer and Leo and in some cases 
Libra and Sagittarius. Cancer is sign of Moon and represents 
public, Sun is government and is owner of Leo Sign. 

7. Influence of Mars, Jupiter and Saturn is common on Lagna or 
the 10th house. 

8. Presence of Mahabhagya Yoga, Mahapurusha Yoga, Neech 

Bhanga Yoga, Adhi and Vasumati Yogas, and connection of 

Kendras and Trikonas. 

9. Atma and Amatya Karkas in Kendra/Trikona. 


Chapter XI 


Eleventh House 


House of Gains or Labha 
It represents freedom from miseries. Mantreshwara calls the 11th 
house, the house of Siddhis and Prapti. It also represents: 
Gains. 
Elder brothers/co-born. 
Friends. 
Happy news. 
Left ear. 
Ornaments. 
Fulfillment of desires. 
Wealth and profit through commerce. 
According to K.N. Rao 11thlord confers honours - 11th 
lord has to be strong to be able to get noble Prize etc. 
Strong planets in the 11th house gives good luck, cars, beautiful 
houses and all kinds of comforts. 

It also gives worldly pleasures in the shape of beautiful 
wife, clothes food and enjoyment. 

Weak planets in the 11th house - debilitated, combust, 
defeated in planetary war, or in inimical Vargas - even when born 
in arich family will loose every thing. 

If Eleventh house/lord are in 'Shubh Kartari Yoga’. They 
give much wealth according to Sarvarth Chintamani. There is much 
wealth also if lord of Navamsa occupied by 11th lord is a benefic 
aspected by lord of two’ - Sarvarth Chintamani 


CaN NAUMNPFwWhH 


Lord of Eleventh in various Houses 
First House. 
Birth has taken place in a rich family. He will earn much wealth. 
Results will be proportionate to the strength of the lord. Extremely 
strong exalted etc. 11 th lord would mean birth in a very prosperous 
family. 

In Rajiv Gandhi's horoscope eleven Lord is in Lagna with 
Lagna lord Sun and Jupiter, Moon and Venus. 


264 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


Horoscope of Rajiv Gandhi 


Second House :- Kutumbhasthan 
11 lord in 2 with 2nd lord gives much wealth according to Parasara. 
Lives with his elder brother, earnings through banks and commercial 
concerns. 
He may be an eminent and forceful speaker. In the horoscope of 
swami Vivekananda, |1 th lord Venus is with 10th and 7th lord 
Mercury. Two benefics in the house of speech made him a speaker 
of unparalleled reputation and orator par excellence, with the 
capacity to hold audience spell bound for hours. 
Benefics give good results - malefic cause losses. 
Third House 
Will be eldest/youngest in siblings. 11 lord in 3 - eldest or youngest 
in the family or sibling. 

Rise in life through self exertion and hard work. 
Gain through brothers. 


JAY LALITHA 


24-23-1948 


11th House 265 


Concert singer or musician and. artist. 

In the horoscope of Jaylalitha, the 11thlord Mars is in the 
third with 2nd lord Moon. 

Many friends and helpful neighbours. 

Affliction causes opposite results. 
Fourth House 
Good for mother - Has landed properties and gains from lands, 
comfortable and joyous life. Well educated and renowned person. 
In the horoscope of Bill Gates, the richest man in the world and 
well known for his learning in the computer field, the 11th lord 
Mars is with exalted 4th lord aspected by 2nd lord Moon from the 
10th house. 


BILL GATES 


28-10-1955 
9.06 PM 


Elder Co-born 
"Malefics in 11 or aspect of malefics deny elder co-born." Sarvarth 
Chintamani 
Fourth house is Sukha, the eight is longevity. The eight 

from 4 is eleven. The combination of 11 and 4 is ideal combination 
for enjoying good things of life. 
Fifth House 
Well placed children, well known for learning, speculation, earns 
much wealth. Affliction makes him a gambler. 
Sixth House 
Wealth through nursing homes, litigation, maternal uncles and 
cousins. Gains through hard work and overcoming of enemies. 

In Indira Gandhi's horoscope there is interchange between 
eleven lord Venus and 6th lord Jupiter. 

Affliction causes loss and makes one indulge in anti social 
activities. 


266 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


Seventh House 

Marries rich woman 

In Franklin Roosevelt horoscope 11 th lord Mercury is in the 7th 
house. His wife was a majestic woman with imposing personality 
with many contributions in social and charitable causes. 

Many women-residence in foreign country and prosperity there. 
Affliction causes ill relation with women of questionable character. 
Eighth House 

Gains through inheritance and unexpected sources. Calamities and 
losses, loss through thieves and swindlers, cheats. 

Ninth House 

Rich, lucky, father's inheritance, luxury, religious minded, charitable. 
Tenth House 

Gains from profession, big name, rank and some contribution in life 
to achieve rank. 


Franklin Roosevelt 


30-1-18$2 
§ PM 


Eleventh House 

Wealthy, happy, many friends, help by elder brothers, blessings of 
family. 

Twelfth House 

"Lords of II and 12 together give good results”- Bhavarth Ratnakar 

11 lord is good if it occupies 3 or 12. 

11 lord in 12 may mean many things, criminal proceedings 
against native, elder brother or sister settled abroad, export-import 
or gains from foreign countries, fines, penalties, sick elder brother. 

In Mahatma Gandhi's horoscope 1|1thlord Sun is in 12th. 


1lth House 267 


Planets in the 11th House re 

Sun -- wealth, royalty, high job in government, wisdom and 
man of principles, loyal and devoted family and lucky in general, 
easy success, photography, hereditary profession, wool, industry, 
gold jewellery, banking, audit stock exchange Very rich, good 
servants and dear to the king.’ Hora Sara 

Moon:- wealth, generous, noble, immense lands, many 
women to help him. Fond of literature and art, good reputation, 
earns through lands, farming, milk, dairy, wines coffee, snack bar, 
pearls, fish "Modest, scholar and rich’. Hora Sara 

Mars:- Influential, great status, landed properties, forceful 
speaker, clever, rich and crafty. Drugs, chemicals, lands, timber, 
minerals, metals, sports, good will - have excellent qualities - 
Hora Sara 

Mercury:- Intelligent, master of many techniques, learned 
in sciences, keen sharp intellect. Rich, wealthy, truthful, happy. 
Mathematics, astrology, scientific discoveries, trades. Writing, 
teaching, education research 'Dear to women and of good quality’ 
- Hora Sara 

Jupiter:- "Gains from various sources, immensely rich, head 
of a clan" - Hora Sara. 

Intelligent, noble, wealthy, riches, many friends and fond of 
Music. Religious and god - fearing. Slightly dependent on others. 
Books, publishing, religion, charily. 

Jupiter Mars.is combination for automobiles as also of 
science. 

Venus:- wealthy, fond of travel, likes company of apposite 
sex. Popular and friendly. Theatre, dance, music many friends 
women, hoteliering, cosmetics, show business, films, coffee, 
beverages, art, vehicles. 

Superior knowledge, wealth, kindness, gains and Satisfaction 

Saturn:- Has many men and women working under him. 
Politics - earnings through government. Fond of enjoyment, few 
friends disrupted education, land and immovable property industries, 
brick kiln, printing press, hardware, oil refineries, mines, labour, 
iron. Saturn in 2nd also gives profession or gains from mines, iron, 
labour. 

Rahu:- Famous, wealthy, learned, chief in armed forces, 
wealth in foreign countries, ear affliction, leader of low classes, 
wealth through farming, agriculture. 

Ketu:- Windfall through lottery, speculation, stock 


268 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


exchange, noble and successful. Has good qualities of head and 
heart. Travels to many places in comfort. 
Combination for Wealth 

i) 11 th lord well placed in Kendras and Trikonas and 

ii) strong malefics in the 11 th house give much wealth, 

iii) Lord of Lagna, 2 and 11 strong give much wealth. 

iv) Lagna lord in Kendra, 1 Oth lord in four and 9th lord in 11 
gives a Raj Yoga. 

v) Exchange of houses between Lagna lord and 11 lord, 
exchange between 2 and 11 lords gives much wealth and 
property. 

vi) 1 st, 2nd, 9th and 11 lords strong in Navamsa and strong in 
Vargas, Vaiseshkamsa (Mooltrikona or exaltation sign 
more than three Vargas is a combination for millionaires.) 

vit) Combination of 9, II and 2nd lords give much wealth. 

Loss of Wealth 

Influence of malefics on lord of eleven. 

"Income comes from the direction of lord of ten. Directions also 
from the sign of 11th house or strongest planet influencing eleven." 
- Sarvarth Chintamani 

Wealth through Honest Means 

Benefic planets give wealth through honest and legal means. 
Malefic planets wealth through unfair means. 

Mixed planets give mixed results. 

"11th lord afflicted gives spiritual thirst." Rao 

Lagna, 2 and 11 lords 

If friendly, money used on legitimate and honourable causes. 

If2 and 11 lords enemies of Lagna lord, wealth squandered 

on wine and women. 

Combination for Deafness 

Aspect of malefic on 3, 11, 5 and 9 without any benefic relief, 
especially 3 and 5 in Papkartari Yoga makes one deaf and gives 
ear troubles. 

Eleventh House and Ashtak Varga 

Some important principles relating to Ashtak Varga as taught by 
K.N. Rao in the classes are given below: 

Principles relating to profession or career 

10th and 11thhouses from Lagna, Sun, Pada Lagna and Karkamsa 
Lagna should be seen; 10th for the nature of rise and | 1th for the 
extent of rise. 


ith House 269 


a) If 11 th has more benefic points than 10, rise in life is great. 
Greater the difference greater is the rise. If the difference 
is more than 4 or 5 Bindus are more, the person is 
extremely lucky in life. In the horoscope of Pt. Nehru, the 
10th has 26 points and 1 1thhas 35, a difference of 9 Bindus 
- it means the Dame luck would always be kind to him. 
b) Ifthe 10th house is strong (28 or more Bindus), but II is 
weak, at some stage there has been a stagnation in career. 
c) A very weak 10th house should not be interpreted as bad 
if II is strong enough as it is capable of lifting the native. 
Variation . 
Satur is the significator for profession, and is the planet of masses, 
public adoration, mass hysteria, and elections. Apply all these rules 
to 10th and 11th from Saturn also. In case of politicians and 
bureaucrats who have a godfather this is a must. 
In case of those who have powerful relations placed as 
administrators etc. the 10thand 11th from Sun should also be seen. 


Chapter XII 
Twelfth House 


House of Loss, Expenditure, Foreign Travel and Mysticism 


The twelfth house is the last house of the Zodiac and is known 
as the house of loss. It is also House of destruction, expenditure 
and downfall. According to Phala Deepika, if lord of 12 is placed in 
any house, its signification suffers. Similarly, if lord of any house is 
placed in twelfth, the things represented by this house undergo a 
loss. For example if lord of four is in twelve it could mean loss of 
property (though in some cases it could also mean residence abroad). 
Similarly lord of seven in twelve would cause delay or problems in 
marriage. 

In Vedic Astrology the 12th house to every house is its house 
of loss. For example the 12th from 9th house is 8th and hence it's 
house of loss to the ninth house or house of loss to house of fortune. 
(‘Bhagya’) 

The twelfth house also represents Meena Rasi or sign Pisces 
in the natural Zodiac. The owner of this sign is Jupiter, the Preceptor 
of Gods. Venus gets exalted here in the form of Love of Divine 
and Heavenly bliss. The Mercury is debilitated here. This sign is 
also a mystical sign, the sign of spiritualism. The placement of 
Jupiter in Navamsa in Pisces leads to Moksha. Jaimini astrology 
also assigns great significance to this Rasi as placement of Jupiter 
here as Karkamsa Lagna or to the placement of a benefic in the 
12th from it leads to ‘final bliss.’ 

The twelfth house represents 

1. Maturity of mystical. 

2. Losses and theft. 
According to K.N. Rao lords of 6,8, 12 cause loss of 
prestige and money if lords of 2, 11 and 12 are also afflicted. 

3. Extravagance 

4. Expenditure. Since this house is primarily a house of 
expenditure, if 12 lord is placed in benefic Vargas money 
is spent in honourable way. With malefics the expenditure 
is on vices like wine, women, illegal gratification, gambling 
etc. With benefic aspects father takes good care of wants 
of the native 

5. Confiscation, embezzlement. Association of 12 lords with 
malefics causes a tendency to cheat, embezzle and 
misappropriate money. 


12th House 271 


6. Sayan Sukh (pleasures of bed). 
7. Hospitals. 

8. Jails. 

9. Left eye, feet. 


10. Residence in foreign countries. 
11. Final emancipation or Moksha. 
12. Downfall. 
13. In female horoscope twelfth house is indicator of character 
and sensual outlook. 
This house has its positive aspect also, besides granting emancipation 
and residence abroad, Jatak Parijat says that if lord of 12 is strong, 
the native has his own wealth (self-acquired), lives long and is 
happy. 
Benefic Aspects / associations:- Benefic aspects on 
the 12th house means residence abroad, good fortune, and delightful 
journey. 
Aspects/ association of benefics shows religious fervor, 
devotion, piety charity and dedicated life. 
According to K.N. Rao Mahatmas are inclined 
to leave their bodies in the sub periods or sub 
sub periods of 9th or 12 lords' 
Malefic aspect, and Pap Kartari Yoga, leaves country for fear 
of government, vagrant life and denies pleasures of bed. 
In the Dasha of lord of twelve one experiences debts, 
expenses, and unhealthy and wicked company. 
If 12th lord is weak and is aspected by 6th lord, money is 
spent on litigation relating to property, misappropriation etc. 


Mars and Saturn in Lagna 12, or second house is a combination for 
accidents. 
Planets in 12th House 
Sun: According to Maharishi Parasara Sun in the 12th for Libra 
Ascendant makes a person live for hundred years, meaning it gives 
him a long life. 
Generally if the Sun is in the 12ththere will either be no conception 
Vandayaa or if other influences predominate birth of first child will 
be in the middle ages. 
Afflicted Sun 
Afflicted Sun - Weak eyesight, not good for spiritual progress, 
immoral life, not successful in life, health suffers. 

According to Jatak Bharnam relations with father suffer. 


272 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


This is also the opinion of Phala Deepika. 

Gives foreign travel, gets trouble from government, is failure 
in politics. May be imprisoned. 

According to Mansagri, the person is idiot, has sex with many 
women, is ugly and has a weak constitution. 

Clandestine love affairs. Trouble due to opposite sex. If 
afflicted lives away - scandal or ill health. 

Moon 
Afflicted Moon - narrow-minded, does not care for feelings of 
others, weak body, eyesight weak. 

According to Jatak Bharnam, gives large number of enemies, 
weak eyesight. 

The person is emotional, has foreign travels. In fiery signs is 
lean, angry, jealous and rash. 

12th house, movable sign with Moon in it means travel abroad. 
Strong Moon and Venus in 4, 5 or 7, has weakness for other sex. 
Mars 
Selfish, hateful, loss of wife, fiery, disease. 

According to Jatak Bharnam, it gives diseases of eye - 
operation if afflicted, excessive expenditure, Enmity with friends, 
imprisonment, angry in disposition. 

Fear from thieves; Desire to deprive others of their wealth. 
Mercury 
According to Jatak Bharnam the native is clever but deceitful, 
cunning and is of impure heart. It also gives foreign travel. 

12th house, movable sign with Mercury in it involves lot of 
travel. 

Loss of money, sinful deeds. 

Jupiter 
Not religious. 

Sexually inclined, later in life spiritual. Jupiter in 12 is not 
good for children, but good for Moksha. 

According to Jatak Bharnam, person is full of anger; his 
feelings are confused, is devoid of intelligence. 

If Jupiter is not well placed in the twelfth house it brings out 
the negative qualities of Jupiter, of extravagance, of wasting money, 
bragging, bad eating and drinking habits, is idle and jealous. Is fond 
of travelling. 

If Jupiter is in its own house or exalted in the 12th house it is 
good for spirituality and attainment of highest form of bliss. See the 
horoscope of Swami Moorkhanandji. 


12th House 273 


Jupiter here is located in its own Mooltrikona spiritual sign 
Sagittarius without any affliction ("Dips into Divinity Astrology and 
History") 

Venus 
According to Jatak Bharnam, the person is lustful, does evil deeds, 
is a liar and is hard hearted. Bed pleasures, wealth and foreign 
travel. Venus as 12th lord exalted and gives company of many 
women, bed pleasures foreign travel. 

According to Bhavarth Ratnakar Venus in 12 gives much 
wealth. 
Saturn 
Pessimist morose, lonely, ugly, dull, financial loss, sinful, 


Swami Moorkhanandji 


Saturn anti Mars in 12 or aspect 12 - woman of easy virtue. 

According to Jatak Bharnam, the person is poor, unhappy 
and miser and is lethargic. Saturn in the 12 makes a person unhappy, 
miserable, of weak eyesight and having many enemies. 

Aspect of Saturn from 10 could also mean voluntary 
missionary work; 
Expenses on other women, litigation, worries due to enemies, thefts. 
Rahu 
Financially good, immoral, helpful. 
According to Jatak Bharnam, it gives eye and feet diseases. Makes 
him deceitful, affectionate and loving, fond of company of wicked 
people. 


274 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


Gives early death of father with Mars in 10 and Sun in 7. 
12th occupied by Rahu and Mandi - Soola Yoga - aspected by 
Saturn or square from Saturn is combination for incarceration, or 
Karagraha Vasa. 
Without benefic aspect may mean prison. 
Ketu 
Is a Moksha Karka is good in 12, some say good position for Ketu 
is in sixth house-restless, wandering spirit, financial losses. 
According to Jatak Bharnam, person spends lavishly, destroys 
his enemies, gets diseases of eyes and feet. 
{1 lord in 12 means anything criminal proceedings, an elder 
co-born settled abroad, export import, or gain from foreign sources 
12 lord in 12 happiness, engages in religious activities and 
righteousness. 
Sun and Venus give good result in twelve. 
Exalted planets do good in evil houses. 
12th Lord in various houses 
12th Lord in the First. 
The lord of Loss in the house of personality and health: 
If the lord of 12th is afflicted in the first, the health of person 
suffers. See the horoscope of a great Sanyasi, from Mr. Rao's 
immortal work "Yogis, Destiny and the Wheel of Time” pages 
31,32 


Horoscope 


Swami Permanand' Saraswati 


Permaninda 


Saraswat 
iS Jul 1915 


12th House 2715 


Leo Lagna: lord of twelve Moon is in Lagna aspected by 
Saturn and Mars. Though this is a combination for Sanyas also, the 
health of the native suffers. In the words of K.N. Rao, "Swami 
Parmanand Saraswati whose childhood name was Mrinal 'Kanti, 
was an ailing child whom no one could cure, was taken by his 
father to the sacred Ganges river, dipped him thrice and prayed" 
Mother, you decide either to save or kill him,’ Child Mrinal recovered 
but a damaged liver was his lifelong companion. 


Twelfth lord in the first makes one handsome, sweet tongued, 
gives weak constitution, makes one feeble minded. In movable and 
dual Rasis it gives travel abroad. 

Sixth lord and 12thlord in Lagna give long life provided 8th 
house is not afflicted. It is also a combination forjail and living 
abroad. 

Exchange of Lagna lord and 12th lord is not good. Person is 
disliked by people. He is miser with no intelligence. 

12th lord in I and Kendra Trikona having malefics only one 
leads a poor and dull life. 
12th lord in Second. 

Defective eyesight, disturbed family life, no timely meals. 
Talks ill of others, gossip. If lord is benefic and strong, one will be 
a tactful speaker. 

In case Jupiter as 12th lord is placed in Aquarius - a spiritual 
sign, it produces Yoga of Renunciation. 
3rd House 

Ear problem, not good for younger co-bom, incompetent writer, 
timid. 
4th House 

Mental worries, not good for mother, bad relation with relatives. 
Not a good house to live, problem with conveyance. 
5th House 

Religious minded, pilgrimages. Problem with or getting 
children. See'the following horoscope of Dr. Bali Ram Hegdewar, 
founder of RSS. 

In this horoscope the 5th house of children from Lagna as 
well from Jupiter has the !2thlord Mars with the 6th and 1 1thlord 
Venus and aspected by Saturn from eight. To this may be added the 
Sth aspect of Ketu. Now see the strength of 5th house from the 
angle of spiritualism, higher idealistic life, and razor like sharp 
intelligence. 5th lord Mars is in the 5th, in the Nakshatra of Ketu, the 
planet of Moksha and enlightenment. Ketu itself is in the Rasi of 


r 


276 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


Sun Ven 
Moon Mars 


Lag JUP}  Rahe 
Kew 


Jupiter, in auspicious 'Kodanda Rasi’, with Gyan Karka Jupiter. 
Mars is also lord of 12. This has the aspect of Saturn, planet of 
Sanyas from the 8th house, 2nd house of Moksha Trikona and a 
house of deep mysteries, meditation and austere practices. Four 
planets, five including Ketu influencing 5th house is a Sanyas Yoga. 
If the 12th lord is in Sth in its Mooltrikona sign with Ketu, a spiritual 
planet, and has the aspect of 9th lord or Atma Karka, one donates 
fabulous amount of money on charities. 

Weak minded, thinks he is miserable. 

6th House 

Is Vipreet Raj Yoga. One is rich, healthy, handsome, and overcomes 
enemies. 

If afflicted, unhappy, sinful, hates mother, immoral, 

7th House 

Problems in married life, health weak, no education or property. 
8th House 

Raj Yoga, wealthy, rich, famous, soft spoken. 

Exalted 12 lord in 8, in case it is Saturn, mystic ofa high spiritual 
order is born. 

9th House 

Residence and prosperity abroad, not good for father, no spiritual 
leaning, does not like friends, wife or guru. Honest, generous and 
large hearted. 

10th House 

Sons are not source of happiness. Jailer, doctor, tedious journeys 
for work. 


Dr. Bali Ram Hegdewar 


12th House 277 


11th House 

Business but not good, troubled by brothers, good profit in rubies, 
pearls, and stones. 

12th House 

Good eyesight, pleasures of bed, benefics here also mean residence 
abroad. 

If lord of 12 house is in its own sign one attains Sadgatti after 
death. 

Position of Jupiter here is very good for spiritualism. See the 
horoscope of Swami Moorkhanand ji as discussed earlier. Here 
Jupiter is in its own sign Sagittarius. 

If Lagna lord is in 12 and trines and Kendras have no benefics one 
leads a poor life. 

Combinations for Travel Abroad 

This has been dealt in detail in my book "Planets and Travel Abroad”. 
Following is a gist of combinations for travel abroad. 

Houses Involved 

First House 

According to sage Satyachari if lord of the first house is in 7th and 
associated with a benefic, the native would live in a foreign country 
and die there. 

Third House 

Third house represents short journeys. Ninth lord in the third means 
travel abroad for pilgrimage. This combination is common in Muslim 
pilgrims who travel on "haj" abroad. 

Fourth House 

Fourth house is the house of residence. Affliction to this house 
takes a person abroad for settlement. 

Seventh House 

This house also deals with residence abroad. Lord of nine in the 
7th house means seeking fortune abroad. 

Eighth House 

This normally involves journey by sea in connection with sickness. 
Travel by sea has been replaced by air travel. 

Ninth House 

Ninth house signifies long journey. 9th lord in 9th with Rahu makes 
ones father famous in foreign country. Ninth lord in the 12thmeans 
living in Guru's Ashram abroad. 

Twelfth House 

Twelfth house has been given a major role for residence in a foreign 


278 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


country. 

Role of 12th Lord: Twelfth lord in Lagna in common sign 
means lot of travelling. If it is with 6th lord and 8th house is afflicted 
person travels to foreign country and is imprisoned there. 

If 12th Lord is in the 9th, there will be both residence and 
property abroad. 

Planets and Foreign Travel 
Sun 
1. According to Saravalli if Sun is in the 8th person travels 
from country to country. 
2.  Bhrigu states that Sun in Lagna leads to fortune abroad. 
3. According to Jatak Parijat a person becomes a courtier 
and stays abroad if Sun is in the 5th house 
4. According to Brihat Parasara Hora Shastra foreign travel 
takes place in Dasha of Sun and Bhukti of Ketu if it is 6th 
or 12th from Sun. 
5. According to Chamatkar Chintamani Sun in the 4th gives 
an honourable profession and settlement abroad. 
Moon 
1. Moon in Kendra or quadrant: According to Jatak Tatwa if 
Moon is placed in a Kendra, the native travels much, both 
in-land and foreign country. , 
2. Moon in Pisces and Cancer mean foreign travel. 
3. Moon in 12th, 8th or 9th house especially exalted Moon in 
the 12th gives residence and prosperity abroad. 
4. According to Brihat Parasara Hora Shastra, Moon in 6th, 
8th and 12th from Venus means travel abroad. 
5. According to Bhrigu, Moon in the 11th gives love marriage 
and. travel abroad. 


1. According to Mansagri ,Venus in Aries give foreign travel 
2.  Bhrigu states that if Venus is in the 6th one goes abroad 
and his property gets stolen. 
3. Venus in 7th means marriage to a beauty and settling 
abroad. 
4. Mars and Venus and Saturn and Venus are combination 
for travel abroad. 
Rahu 
Rahu is Karka for all things foreign. Its Dasha involves change, 
marriage, contact with foreigners etc. 
According to Saravalli when Rahu or Ketu join lords of 7, 8, 
9 and 12 foreign travel is involved. Rahu in Lagna 7th or 12 may 


12th House 279 


invariably mean foreign travel. 

Brihat Parasara Hora Shastra states that foreign travel 
takes place in Rahu Dasha Jupiter bhukti. If Jupiter is exalted one 
goes west. 

Rahu in Lagna and 7th also mean foreign travel. 
Mercury 

If Mercury is in the 4th one travels a lot. 

For details see my book Planets and Travel Abroad (2nd 
and revised edition) 

12th house from Lord of Lagna - Residence Abroad 

See 12th house from where 12th lord from Lagna is placed. 
If it is posited with an exalted planet or in a friendly house or is 
aspected by a planet that is friendly or in exaltation or when that 
Rasi is occupied by friendly planets - person will stay in his place 
ofbirth. 

If lord of 12th from position of lord of Lagna is enemy, 
debilitated or weak, the person goes to a foreign country. He will 
stay abroad permanently, if Venus as friend is there or aspects the 
place. If Sun is there it will be a small town. If the planet is strong, 
it will be a prosperous place. Jatak Parijat 

Lord of 12 from the position of Lagna lord is in Kendra or 
Trikona from Lagna, person stays in place pleasing to his heart. If 
Jupiter, Moon or Venus aspect this place he goes to a beautiful 
place. If this is in 2nd from lord of Lagna and is unfriendly, person 
stay in his own land. Jatak Parijat 
Settlement Abroad — Snap Shot Prediction 
The inhibition Hindus had in earlier decades about going to foreign 
countries after crossing the "seven seas" has vanished. A common 
question being asked of astrologers these days relates to settlement 
abroad. A snap shot method for giving quick predictions is given 
below with illustrations. However, like other snap shot methods, it 
has its limitations. This rule has, however, been widely tested and 
generally found to be accurate. 

The parameters are 

1. Fourth house/lord, its affliction from the Lagna. 

2. The role of Rahu/Ketu and its connection with the 4th house 
and/or the 4th lord. 

3. It has been observed that whenever fourth house/lord is 
afflicted or fourth lord is ill placed (6,8 & 12) in ahoroscope, 
person leaves his native place to settle abroad. 

4. If some how or the other, Rahu/Ketu are also involved 
then residence abroad becomes almost a certainty. 


280 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


5. Examine all these from the Moon and also in the Navamsa. 
6. Examine all these from the Pada Lagna also. 
See the following horoscopes: In the horoscopes PL stands for 
Pada Lagna. 
Horoscope No. 1 
Date of Birth 19-11-47, Jullundhar 
This is the horoscope of young bright boy who was studying 
engineering in India. In the middle of the course he left for studies 
in the USA and did his B.Tech and MBA in a prestigious university 
of America. Ultimately, he got married to an American girl and 


19 Nov i947 
Jallundhar 


12th House 281 


settled abroad. 
The fourth house has the affliction of Saturn, and the aspect 
of the twelfth lord Jupiter. The fourth lord, in turn, is being aspected 
by Saturn. 
The fourth from Moon has Rahu/Ketu axis. 
In Navamsa the fourth house has affliction of Sun and 
Mars and fourth lord is with Rahu/ Ketu axis. 
From the PL - The fourth lord is Jupiter, which is in twelfth 
from PL aspected by Rahu and Saturn (Jaimini aspect). 
Twelfth from PL is Scorpio whose lord Mars is aspected by 

Rahu. 

Yogas for Generosity 

1) =: 12th lord exalted or in friendly Rasi 9th lord in 4 and 10th 
lord in Kendra give charitable nature. 

2) 11 and 12 lord in exchange or Parivartan. 

3) Lagna lord in 12 in its own Navamsa is combination for 
virtuous deeds. 

Yogas for Prosperity :- 

1) Vimal Yoga:- 6 lord in 12 gives prosperity and influence. 

2) According to Prasna Neeti, 6 lord and Lagna lord in 12 make 
one rich. 


Chapter XIII 
Rahu and Ketu 


Importance of Rahu in the Horoscope; 


"Rahu who is the cause of eclipse also brings some eclipses 


in one's life.” K.N. Rao 


L. 


Oi 
3, 


If Rahu is alone and not aspected by any planet it will give its 
results according to its own, dispositor. 

If Rahu is conjoined with some planets, it will eclipse them. 

The aspect or association of Rahu with malefics is disastrous. 
With Mars it gives violence. 

Aspected by or associated with benefics it gives benefic 
results. 

Aspected or associated with Yoga Karka it acts as Yoga 
Karka. 

Rahu is the point of obsession in the horoscope, which may 
be a point of upliftment or downfall. 

Rahu's aspect on Moon leads to neurosis. 

‘Rahu gives Raj Yoga in his Dasha and Bhukti ifhe is in 10, 
11,4 0r5 - Bhava Rattan. 

"Rahu give Raj Yoga and much fame in his Dasha if it is in 
Kendra or Trikona." - Bhavarth Ratnakar. 

Rahu with Sun and Saturn in 3; Rahu gives courage and 
fortune in his Dasha. 

During Dasha of Rahu, one becomes timid if Mercury is in 
3rd house. 

Of the several planets conjunct or aspected by Rahu, 
Strongest gives result of its significantion. 

Rahu in the third is excellent — in Cancer it is bad for material 
prosperity. 

In the 5™ gives intuitive power, hypocrisy. diplomacy and 
shrewdness. 


Rahu and Ketu 283 


According to Bhavarth Ratnakar with Rahu in the 5th native 
knows inner meaning of things. 
14. Rahu in the house of Jupiter aspected by Jupiter is always 
good - Uttarkalamitra 
15. Mars and Rahu in 6th are some sort of Laxmi Yoga. Mars is 
good for wealth in the 6th 
16 Rahu/ Ketu can enhance quality of Yoga 
17. Rahu can give extraordinary Yoga for high rise in political 
life. 
18 Rahu being a shadowy planet and the planet of disguise and 
shadows is prominent in the horoscopes of actors. 
Check every time when Moon passes over your Rahu and Ketu - 
beneficial results are likely, if they are well placed. 
Other Important things to remember regarding Rahu are: 
Rahu is the incarnation of Lord Varaha (For propitiation of Rahu 
worship of Varahavtar (is recommended) 
Sign of Exaltation/ Debilitation of Rahu 
According to Parasara Rahu's sign of exaltation is Taurus; 
others consider it to be Gemini. Debilitation sign would, therefore, 
be Scorpio and Sagittarius. 
Parasara thinks that Mooltrikona sign of Rahu is Gemini while 
others think it is Aquarius. 
Aspects of Rahu 
Different writers give different aspects of Rahu. 
According to some Rahu has 5th, 7th, 9th and 12th aspect. 
Some take only 5th and 7th. Rahu/Ketu have always retrograde 
motion. They stay in the sign for 18 months approximately Moon 
and Rahu in Lagna and malefics in 5. 9 give rise to Paisage Yoga 
- Yoga of disembodied "Bhoot - Pret" which make other suffer. 
To ward off evils of Rahu Goddess Durga is worshipped. 
Some recommend prayers to Lord Shiva. 
Results of Rahu in various Houses 
Rahu in the first House 


In Rasis Aries, Leo, Sagittarius. 


284 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


Person is stubborn, proud, wealthy, morally loose and selfish. 
In Leo, as Sun is ruler, evil is intensified. 
Lagna Cancer, Virgo, Capricorn 

Thief, robber, many enemies. 
Taurus, Scorpio 


Unfaithful to wife, unreliable in money matters. Villain in drama 
and stage. 

Rahu preferably in Aries, Taurus and Virgo Ascendant person 
is tall. During Dasha of Rahu, one should be careful about wife/ 
partner. 


Mental Affliction 


Aspect of Rahu on Moon and Mercury are not desirable. 
Leads to unsound mind and hysteria. 


Rahu in 2nd house 


Good in Meena or Pisces. Short temper, pure mind. Domestic 
life not happy. 

Malefics in the 2nd house destroy wealth. If there is Rahu 
aspected by malefic. There is tendency to cheat and make money 
illegally. 

Rahu in 3rd house 


Praised as gives stamina and self-control. Aspected by 
malefics destroys siblings. 

Is youngest or eldest in the family or among brothers or sisters. 

It gives courage and is very good for extra curricular activities 
and: sports. 


Rahu in 4th house 


Behaves like a Kendra lord from very good to ordinary if 
other promises exit. 

Bad-unfortunate, not happy, may be no children, no harmony 
in marriage. 

Rahu in 4 or with lord of four, not get happiness they seek 
disappointment and tragedy in life. 

1. In Gemini, or Aquarius great wealth, not happiness. 


Rahu and Ketu 285 


2. In Cancer, Virgo highly dignified. Honourable. 

3. If 4th house Aries, Taurus, Cancer, Virgo, results are good. 

4, With benefic association gives long life to mother. 
Foreign travel 

The native may live in a house far from home. With another 
malefic may live in another foreign place. 


Rahu in the 5th house 


Kona lord - 5th is 9th from 9th as such hinders development 
of luck. ‘Sara Dosha'— difficulty with children. 

With benefics or in benefic Rasi or with Raj Yoga planets 
produce Raj Yoga. It can give rare insight. 


Rahu in 6th house 


Rahu with 6th lord gives injury by animals - means causes 
accidents. Saturn Rahu in 6th is dangerous combination. 
According to K.N. Rao Rahu in the 6th is always good for 
politicians 
Rahu in the 7th house 


Not a good position, company of persons of loose morals. 
Life with wife miserable. 

If 7th house is Libra or Taurus can make money through 
gambling, speculation and races. 

Many astrologers consider position very bad for marriage and 
reject the chart. This should be avoided. 


Rahu in the 8th house 


Undiagnosable disease sexual connotations. Can be good for 
finances. Is forsaken by the noble for no reason. Gain of wealth 
from government, sometimes wealth is lost, if afflicted. 

Honour and fame from ruler, noble deeds. Happy in old age. 

Poor, timid, impatient, miserable. 

Rahu of masculine signs is not favourable. Trouble, strife, 
want, money through unfair means Rahu of feminine signs is 
conducive to a patient, wealth-accumulating partner. She dies before 
husband. 


286 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


Rahu in the 9th House: 


If well placed person is a scholar, virtuous, impressive in 
speech, cultured and humane. Devotional. Shows faith in others 
religion than his own. Loss of wealth. Want of truth, conduct, luck 
and wisdom. 


Rahu in the 10th House: 


Produces Raj Yoga in its Mahadasha. (Rahu aspected by 
malefics can give dubious results). 
Conjunction with Sun gives financial trouble 

Honourable, truthful, honest, good results. Humanitarian. 
Travels widely, learned. Hard work. 

If Afflicted, dishonest, talkative, extravagant, foolish, proud. 
arrogant. 

Moon on or immediate vicinity of Rahu, ideas visionary and 
theoretical. Gives missionary tendencies. 

A debilitated 9th or 10th lord under Rahu/Ketu gives 
enigmatic character from deceptive to a cheat person. 
Rahu in the 11th House: Is good position 

I. Skilled in use of weapons- could be a skilful surgeon 

and doctor. 

II. Handsome and kind hearted. 

Ill. Lives in foreign country. 

IV May not have a son or happiness from son. It is 6th 

from 5th. Applies to 1 st child only, 
V. Can be eldest or youngest of siblings or in its own sex. 
VI. Gives much money. 


Rahu in the 12th House 


1 Religion, wife and children desert him. (Note: This is 
an extreme statement and should be used carefully). 

1. Lives in foreign country 

2. Defect in nails. 


Rahu and Ketu 287 


Rahu as a Protector 


1. "A well aspected Rahu in the 3rd, 6th or 11th house 
wards off evil and gives strength." 

2. Rahu in Kendras and Trikona from Lagna is good in 
following Rasis 
i. In the Rasis of Mercury, Gemini and Virgo. 
ii. In Aries, Taurus or Cancer in Lagna. 


Dasha Results of Rahu 


1. 


10. 


Rahu- Mercury, Rahu Venus and Rahu Jupiter are generally 
good periods. Though Rahu Mercury can be periods of mental 
aberrations and Rahu Venus are difficult times. 
Sub period of Rahu in the major period of any other planet is 
not good. 
Major periods of Saturn and sub periods of Rahu are generally 
difficult. 
According to Phala Deepika if Rahu is with benefics its results 
in Rahu Mahadasha are benefic. 
A benefic Rahu (with benefic or in benefic houses, gives very 
auspicious results, like wealth. 
A malefic Rahu causes disease, snake bite (food poisoning, 
or causes strong reaction. 
If Rahu or Ketu are in 2nd and 7th house and are associated 
with 5th and 9th lord they give recognition. 
Rahu and Ketu in 5th or 9th house associated with 2nd and 
7th lord becomes ‘Marka’. 
Even Rahu Ketu in 6, 8 and 12 give good results if associated 
with Kendra or Trikona lord. 
Rahu/ Ketu in 3 or 11 or in 14, 7 and 10 with Kendra and 
Trikona lord give prosperity. 

KETU 
Gives chronic and mysterious diseases. Conjunction of Ketu, 


Satur and Jupiter in the 8th may causes cancer. 


Ketu is debilitated in Gemini and gives, bad results, like chronic 


asthma, phthisis or cancer in the lungs as especially in the fourth 
house. 


288 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


Ketu in First House 


Trouble through relatives. Remains perturbed, wife suffers 
from stomach problems etc. 

Ketu in Capricorn or Aquarius gives property and noble 
sons. 


Ketu is Kaivalyakarka, gives fervor and devotion with Moon 
in Cancer Lagna- 


If afflicted causes death due to cerebral thrombosis, brain fever, 
brain tumor, epilepsy and convulsions. See horoscope of Lord Byron 
who died at the age of 36. 

D.O.B. 28.4.89. 


Birth Sagg Salazar cerebral Hemorrhage died 27.7.1970. Ketu in 
Ist asp of Saturn and Rahu. 

Always mentally agitated, lest the government should 
take money away as penalty. Hostility, lot of happiness and wealth 
is indicated if Ketu is in Aries, Gemini or Virgo or in the sign have. 
Ketu in 2nd house may cause blindness, cancer of eye, defective 
vision. See horoscope of John Milton and Helen Keller. 

Ketu in 2nd house disturbs family life and may cause defects in 
speech. 


Rahu and Ketu 289 


Jhon Milton 
9,12.17608 


Helen Keller 
Born Blind 


Ketu in Third House 

Native gets much happiness, but trouble in mind, has hatred towards 
his brothers. Conquers enemies, gets fame and much happiness if 
Ketu is in its own sign or exalted. Brave and generous. 
Debilitated Ketu, mental anxiety, troubles with brothers and 
neighbours. 

If Ketu and Mars are in Leo chances of decapitation. 

Jane Manscficld a film actress gang raped and beheaded. She had 
Ketu in third with Mars and in Leo. 

Third house is controller of ntind and mental balance. It may lead 
to many violent crimes. Ketu in the 3rd with Saturn is cruel and 
brutal. 


290 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


Dr. Samuel Sheppard, killed his wife and got life imprisonment. 
Houses 3, 9 are badly afflicted. Ketu is in 3rd and Saturn, Mars is 
in the third from Moon. 


Dr. Sacuel 
Sheppard 


29,42,1923 


Ketu in 4th House 


Loss of support and benefits from mother. Loss of inherited 
wealth through friends, never at home. 

Favourable results if Ketu is in own sign Pisces or exaltation 
sign Sagittarius. 

Great benefit and support thought parents if Ketu is in Scorpio 
or Leo. In exaltation it gives Rajyoga. 


Ketu in 5th House 


Brother suffers from arm injury- little learning-strife with 
son-injury due to fall from high place Native is crafty, jealous, 
weak, timid and impatient. More daughters than sons. Stomach 
problem. If in Leo, Sagittarius Pisces or Scorpio indicates Raj Yoga. 
Impressive sermonizing. 


Ketu in the 6th House 
Disillusionment through maternal uncle. 

Free from sickness, worry. Has wealth — successful in 
debates — large hearted — dear relatives. Physical affliction, 
unfaithful servants. 


Rahu and Ketu 291 


Ketu in 7th House 


Much trouble and danger from travel. Loss of wealth — fear 
from enemies or theft- adulterous. Good results if exalted. 


Ketu in 8th House: 


Death of father, cough, asthma, dysentery, consumption piles 
— fear of fall from horseback —Gain of wealth if Ketu is in Scorpio, 
Virgo, Aries, Gemini or Taurus. 

An eye on wealth and women of others. Long living and 
wealth if aspected by benefics. 


Ketu in 9th House 


Danger to father- destruction of meritorious acts — short 
tempered, convert. Shakes faith. 

If well placed fortune through foreigners, asceticism. May 
be a king or a Minister. Has fame. 


Ketu in 10th House 


Unfortunate and miserable —trouble for or through 
father — danger of fall from conveyance. 

Of Scorpio, Taurus, Virgo or Aries kills enemies. Intelligent, 
strong, self-relaxation, wise, living. 


Ketu in 11th House 


Success and gains from all sources. Very fortunate, learned, 
handsome, well dressed and glory. 


Ketu in 12th House 


Wastes wealth on misdeeds. Vicious, poor and miser. Much 
travelling generous extravagant Mercury - Ketu make one 
unpredictable. It gives one a criminal bent of mind. Such persons. 


Chapter XIV 


Transit 
Result of Transit of Planets with special reference to 
Ashtak Varga 


It should be remembered that results of transit cannot take 
precedence over those promised in the birth chart. The birth 
horoscope is the main important chart containing the Dasha scheme 
binding us all in the grand design of Karma. The whole scheme of 
destiny is nothing else but the unfolding of Karmas. The good or 
bad events that occur in our life are the fruits of our Karmas. 

For example if children are not promised in the horoscope 
then, howsoever results may be good in transit Jupiter and Saturn's’ 
aspect on 15 axis), birth of children must not be predicted. In fact 
transits should be given secondary importance to main events 
promised in Dasha scheme. 

While primary importance is given to transit of planets from 
Moon, the transit should also be considered from Lagna. 
However, all the great ancient Acharyas emphasize that transits 
should be considered from Moon only. 

In judging the results of transit following factors should be 
considered. 
I — Transit of planets in good and bad houses 
In considering whether a transit is good or bad, the position of 
planets from Moon at the time of birth is taken into consideration in 
Vedic Astrology. Mantreswar states in the book Phala Deepika, 
that among all the Lagnas the Moon's Lagna is the most important 
for assessing the effects of transits. The sign where Moon is posited 
at birth is important, and is called the radical sign of Moon, which 
is also known as Chandra Lagna, or sometime as Rasi. 
Good Position for transit of plariets with respect to radical 
Moon. 
Sun: gives good results while transiting 3,6,10 and 11 positions 
from radical Moon. In other houses it gives malefic results. 
Mars: gives good results while transiting in 3,6, and 11. In other 
houses it is bad. 
Saturn: Also gives good results while transiting 3,6 and 11 houses 
from radical Moon while it is bad in other houses. 


Transit 293 


It will thus be observed that malefics Sun, Mars and Saturn 
give benefic results while transiting 3,6 and 11 from radical Moon. 
In addition Sun is good in 10 also as it gets directional strength 
there. 

Moon is also good in 3, 6 and 11 from her radical position as also 
in 7 and 10th Benefics Mercury, Jupiter and Venus are good in 2 
and 11 also. 

Mercury is good in 4,6, and 8 and 10. (as also 2 and 11). 
Jupiter is good in 5,7 and 9 in addition to 2 and 11. 

Venus is good in all houses except 6, 7 and 10. 

Rahu and Ketu: Rahu in transit acts like Saturn except in 10th 
from radical Moon where it gives great gains. Ketu gives results 
like Mars. 

They are good in 3,6, 10 and 11 from Moon. 

II— Good and had results of Planets 

Sun 

Good results with strong Bindus — In addition to results due to 
lordship of a particular house, Sun gives cheerful mood, victory 
over enemies, high status, health and wealth. 

Bad Results: weak Bindus — Loss of wealth (houses 2, and 
12), diseases due to affliction of Sun (blood pressure, heart disease, 
chest ache, eye disease, stomach ache (houses 1, 4, 5, 7, 8, 9 and 
12), obstacles, aimless travelling separation from family, displeasure 
from government). 

Moon 

Results of Good Moon: strong Bindus — wealth, good food, 
bed room comforts, clothing, friendship, association with opposite 
sex, joy, happiness, prosperity and good health. 

Evil results of had transit of Moon: weak Bindus — fear, 
troubles of all sorts, loss of wealth and health, disturbance of peace 
of mind, domestic unhappiness, laziness and jealousy - diseases of 
Moon, lungs, asthma, cholera, diarrhea, lunacy, digestive disorders, 

jaundice, impurity of blood etc. 

Mars 

Good transit with strong Bindus — Authority, success over 
enemies, victory, lands, wealth, enjoyments. 

Bad transits with weak Bindus — Quarrels, exchange of hot 


294 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


words, loss of wealth/position (4th house), misunderstanding with 
wife, diseases of Mars - ulcers, heat trouble, blood pressure, bilious 
fever, impurity of blood. 
Mercury 
Good transits with strong Bindus — wealth, prosperity, honour, 
good character, happiness, and friendship with good people. 
Bad transits - weak Bindus — Loss of wealth, wicked speech, 
dishonour, grief, loss of position, dull intellect, disease of Mercury 
nervous disorders, brain, skin, anemia. 
Jupiter 
Good transit with strong Bindus — Wealth, prosperity, children, 
royal favour, association with noble persons, domestic happiness, 
knowledge, lands, houses marriage, promotion. 
Bad transits, weak Bindus — loss of wealth, disgrace, 
expenditure, loss of position, change of place, domestic unhappiness, 
death, imprisonment, disease, accidents (8th house) separation. 
Disease of Jupiter liver, cancer, jaundice, diabetes. 
Venus 
Good transit many Bindus — Luxury, perfumes, dress, 
enjoyments, marriage, children, wealth, prosperity, domestic 
happiness, pleasure trips, fame, land, houses 
Bad transits weak Bindus — debt, disgrace, litigation, losses, 
evils from women, ill health of wife. 
Saturn 
Good transit strong Bindus — Wealth, servants, land, pleasures, 
victory, permanent job, leader of masses, married happiness, honours. 
Bad-transit: low Bindus—lIll health, death, fire, enemies, journey 
to distant places, separation from relatives, miseries, loss of wealth, 
obstructions, delay, imprisonment calamities, grief. Windy and 
phlegmatic diseases, rheumatism, dyspepsia, deformity, chronic 
diseases. 
I1J—Points of Obstruction or Vedha 
When a planet transits through a sign whether favourable or not, if 
there is another planet moving at vedha point the effects of transit 
will not be felt. 

Following are the benefic and Vedha points of each planet. 


Transit 295 


Suppose Sun is transiting over the third house, it is bound to give 
good results, but if a planet is simultaneously also transiting the 9th 
house no good results would be produced. Conversely if a planet is 
transiting over 9th house, and simultaneously another planet is transiting 
on the third house, the evil results will not be felt. 


Sun Benefic in Houses 3 6 10 II 
Vedha Points 9 122 4 5 
Moon Benefic Points 13 6 710 
Vedha Points 5 9 12 2 4 8 
Mars Benefic Points 3 6 Il 
Vedha Points 2 9 5 
Mercury Benefic Points 2 4 6 8 10 Il 
Vedha Points 5 3 9 17 
Jupiter Benefic points 2579 I 
Vedha Points 2 4 3 10 8 
Venus Benefic points ht 2 By ose 8. BE A “Ae 
Vedha Points 8 7 110 9 5 Il 6 3 
Saturn Benefic Points 3 6 Il 


Vedha Points 12° OS 5 

It may be noted that there is no Vedha between Sun and Saturn, as 
Sun is father of Saturn. Similarly there is no vedha between Moon 
and Mercury, as Moon is father of Mercury. 

IV —A planet when transiting in a Rasi with more than 30 Bindus 
gives excellent results. Similarly, a planet transiting in a Rasi which 
in its own Bhinashtak Varga has more than 4 Bindus gives auspicious 
results. 

V — A planet while transiting a Rasi ofits exaltation or in its own 
house behaves well, whereas while transiting in its Rasi of 
debilitation is destructive. Saturn entered its Rasi of debilitation on 
17 April 1998. The results had been disastrous on a global scale. 
Fires, floods earthquake wreaked havoc all around. Economies of 
South East Asia tumbled. Floods submerged the whole country of 
Bangladesh. NATO bombarded Yugoslavia on an unprecedented 
scale. The exodus of refugees from Kosova reminded one of 
barbaric Middle Ages of murder, arson and loot. In India the stability 


296 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


of the government was threatened by withdrawal of support by 
Jayalalitha, and a vote for confidence in government of Bajpai was 
tabled on the floor of the house on 15.4. 1999, which was defeated 
by one vote and Bajpai government, had to resign. There were 
other causes also - the entry of Venus, Lagna lord of horoscope of 
independent India, in Taurus/Gemini and its affliction which has 
been discussed in detail in my article in Journal of Astrology. In the 
sign Mithun, in the Bhinashtak of Moon representing mind, in the 
independent horoscope of India, there is no Bindu. 
VI — Sade Sati 
‘Sade Sati’, is a Hindi word meaning seven and a half. In astrological 
term it means a seven and half year period of transit of Saturn in 
the 12th, Ist and second place from the location of Moon in the 
birth horoscope. Since normally Saturn stays in a Rasi for two and 
a half years, this covers a total period of 7-1/2 years. 

Let us illustrate with an example:- In J.L. Nehru, horoscope 
Moon is located in Cancer, his period of Sade Sati would start 
when transiting Saturn enters Gemini, which is the 12th house from 
Cancer. Here it stays for 2-1/2 years, it then moves over to Cancer 
the Ist house from Moon and latter on after again 2-1/2 years 
sojourn in Cancer goes to Leo. This 7-1/2 year would end when 
Saturn completes its stay in Leo. Saturn stays in Gemini, Cancer, 
and Leo for a total stay of 7-1/2 years in the three crucial Rasis 
12th, 1st and 2nd from Nehru Chandra Lagna. This is the period 
known as Sade Sati. 
Mr. Katwe's definition 
A Maharashtrian astrologer late Shri Katwe states that when Saturn 
is within 45 degrees from natal Moon, Sade Sati would begin and 
would end when it moves again 45 degrees away from Moon. There 
is some substance in this theory, as suppose Moon is located in Aries 
at 27 degrees, then would the period of Sade Sati start when Saturn 
enters Pisces, the 12th sign from Aries, or would it be more appropriate 
for it to start when it reaches 12 degrees Pisces or 45 degrees before 
Moon? According to Katwe period of Sade Sad starts at the time 
Saturn enters at 12 degree Pisces and ends when Saturn completes 
12 degree Gemini and not when it enters Gemini. 
Result of Transit of Saturn in 12, 1 and 2nd house from 


Transit 297 


Moon. 
There is no mention of word Sade Sati in classical books of 
Astrology yet the very mention of this word sends jitters through 
the spines of millions of naive people. It is said to cause "Chattar 
Bhang" (loss of protectors). It is a common superstition that during 
the first round of Sade Sati of Saturn: 
i) People lose their grandparents. 
ii) In the second round they lose their parents and 
iii) In the third round, if they are lucky to live this long they 
often lose their own Lives. 
While there is no mention of word Sade Sati in any of the classical 
books yet mention has been made of ill effects of Saturn during 
transit through 12, 1 and 2nd houses of Moon. Let us see what 
these books have to say about this transit. 
Practically all the books agree that transit of Saturn in all 
the houses except 3, 6 and 11 from Moon cause evil. Saturn is a 
malefic planet and is Karka for limitation, hindrance, delay, death, 
murder, rape, sexual perversion, separation, pain and agony. It causes 
loss of money, theft and poverty. It makes one dull, morose and 
gloomy. 
Result of transit of Saturn on the 12th house from Moon 
Mantreswar in Phala Deepika states that Saturn in transit from 
12th house to Moon does not give any gain in business, causes loss 
of wealth through enemies and sickness to wife and son. Similarly 
other results are Ist from Moon — ‘diseases and performance 
of funeral rites' 2nd from Moon — Loss of wealth and children. 
Is Period of Sade Sati dreadful? 
According to traditional astrologers, besides ‘Ashtam’ Shani this is 
the most dreadful period; instances are cited; 
i) Mahatma Gandhi was assassinated on 30th January 1948, 
during his period of Sade Sati 
ii) Indira Gandhi lost her mother in her first Sade Sati and her 
husband and father in her second Sade Sati. She also 
became a Minister in the cabinet of Lal Bahadur Shastri 
during same period. 


298 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


As against this 
i) J L Nehru has his Moon in Cancer. In 1947 when he 
became the first Prime Minister of India, The Saturn was 
transiting in Cancer. 
ii) | Shrimati Indira Gandhi became Prime Minister in January 
1966, when she was running her Sade Sati. 
iit) | Morarji Desai's Sade Sati proved very lucky for him. In 
his second Sade Sati he became a cabinet Minister in 
Maharashtra, and in third Sade Sati he became Prime 
Minister of India. 
In Journal of Astrology, April - June 1999 issue a brilliant deep 
study of results at’ Sade Sati has been done under guidance of 
K.N. Rao. This proves beyond doubt that the period of Sade Sati 
cannot be bad if 


i) The operative Dasha / Antar is beneficial 

ii) If 12th, 1 st and 2nd houses from Moon have more than 30 
Bindus each in the Sarvashtak Varga, the result of this 
transit would be beneficial. This was the case in Nehru's 
horoscope. 

iii) fin the Bhinashtak Varga of Saturn it has more benefic 
points in these houses the results of this transit cannot be 
bad. 

iv) The results would again be not bad if Satum is transiting 


through own/friend's house etc. 

v) See also the Nakshatras surrounding Moon. If these are 
beneficial, results of Sade Sati cannot be bad. 

vi) Aspects of other planets should also be taken into 
consideration. Benefic aspects give excellent results, while 
malefic aspects cause evil. 

VIl— Transit through Nakshatras 
Natal Star: The natal star is the Nakshatra in which Moon is located 
at the time of birth. In the horoscope of Nehru the Moon is in 
Cancer Rasi at 17 degrees. 5! minutes, in Ashlesha Nakshatra of 
Mercury (number 9). This is his birth Nakshatra or natal star. 
Phala Deepika has given in details the results of transits of 
various planets in different Nakshatras. This view is at variance 
with that given by other authorities. According to them the transit of 


Transit 299 


planets in 3rd, 5th and 7th Nakshatra from the birth Nakshatra and 
their trines (12 and 21; 14 and 23, and 16 and 25) cause misery in 
life. The 3rd Nakshatra is known as Vipat Tara (star), whereas 5th 
is known as Prathiram and 7th is called as Vadha Tara. When 
benefic planets transit these Nakshatra the results are not good, 
but when malefic planets move over these stars the results are 
very bad, especially when these are associated or aspected by 
malefics, or are in retrograde motion or become combust. 

The results of transit of various planets, as given in various 
classical works are as follows: - 
Sun is malefic in Ist, 14th, 16th, 19th, 1 st and 23rd Nakshatra from 
birth Nakshatra. It is good in others. 
Moon is malefic in Ist, 19th, 21st and 23rd Nakshatra from birth 
Nakshatra, in others it is benefic. 
Mars is malefic in Ist 3rd, 5th, 7th, 12th, 14th, 19th and 21st 
Nakshatra from Janam Nakshatra, in other places it is good. 
Mercury, Venus and Jupiter are bad in Ist, 3rd, 7th, 10th, 12th, 
and 27th star from birth Nakshatra. They are good in other places. 
Saturn, Rahu and Ketu: Their transit in Ist, 7th, 10th, and 27th 
Nakshatra from birth Nakshatra is evil. It is good in others. 
According to Mantreswar the transit of Saturn, Rahu and Ketu in 
1 st, 9th, 1 Oth, 11 th, 26th and 27th Nakshatra from Janam Nakshatra 
is bad. 


VIN— Transit in Kakshaya 
This is an important concept in Ashtak Varga. Each Rasi of 30 
degrees is divided into eight equal parts of 3° 45'. The lords of 
these kakshaya are Saturn, Jupiter, Mars, Sun, Venus, Mercury, 
Moon and Lagna in that order. A planet while transiting in a kakshaya 
whose lord has contributed a Bindu (this can be ascertained from 
Prasthar Chakra of each planet) gives good results, while in 
transiting in a Binduless kakshaya evil results are manifested. 
There is another concept of interpretation of results. 
Suppose Saturn in transit reaches the kakshaya of Mars, and Mars . 
has contributed one Bindu, then the result of transit in this kakshaya 
will not only be good, but Satur here wilt give the results of its own 
signification as also that of Mars. This has been illustrated with 


300 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


examples in the chapter on kakshaya in my other book. 
IX — Temporal Benefic and Malefic for different Lagnas 
While judging the result of transit of a planet its lordship must be 
taken into account whether it is benefic or malefic for a particular 
Lagna. This concept is peculiar to Vedic Astrology and has been 
elaborated by Maharishi Parasara in Brihat Parasara Hora Shastra. 
In this connection following principles should be memorized; 
i) Lagna Lord is always Benefic ie. Mars for Aries and 
Scorpio Lagnas and Satum for Cancer and Aquarius are 
benefics. 
ii) Lord of 5th house and lords of 9th house are always 
auspicious. 
iit) Mars for Cancer, and Leo Lagnas, Saturn for Lagnas of 
Venus, Taurus and Libra, and Venus for Lagnas of Saturn 
Capricorn and Aquarius are Yoga Karkas, being lords of 
Kendra and Trikona. - 
iv) Malefic lords of Kendras cease to be malefics, and benefic 
lords of Kendras have Kendra Adhipati Dosha and do not 
give benefic results. 
X — Aspects 
The aspects during transit are also important. Benefic aspects on a 
transiting planets give good results, while malefic aspects may prove 
disastrous. 
XI — Retrograde Planets 
A retrograde natural benefic planet transiting a favourable house 
enhances the signification of the house, while transiting in an 
unfavourable house the results will be less destructive. 

A retrograde natural malefic becomes more destructive. 
If it is transiting through a good house, meaning 3,6, and 11 etc.; its 
good effects are decreased. If it is transiting through an 
unfavourable house its results become malefic. 
XII— Dasha in Operation 

i) Dasha of a benefic planet — A benefic planet whose 
Dasha is running, while in transit, passing through a 
favourable house gives benefic effects to the maximum. 
In evil houses the benefic effects are reduced. 


Transit 301 


ii) | Dasha and transit of malefic — Transit in malefic houses 
make the results worse, whereas the transit through benefic 
houses reduce the harmful effects. 

XII — Effect of Combustion 

Planets when transiting through favourable position from Moon if 
become combust (get obstructed by Sun rays), or get eclipsed by 
Rahu/Ketu cannot give good results, whereas they give bad results 
in transiting through unfavourable houses in similar circumstances. 
The planets get combust in their nearness to Sun within certain 
specified degrees. 

The Mercury gets combust ifit is within 3 degrees from Sun 


The Moon gets combust if it is within 12 degrees from Sun 
The Mars gets combust if it is within 17 degrees from Sun 
The Jupiter gets combust if it is within 11 degrees from Sun 
The Venus gets combust if it is within 9 degrees from Sun 

The Saturn gets combust if it is within 15 degrees from Sun 


XIV — Pap Kartari Yoga 

Ifa planet, while transiting, gets hemmed in ‘Pap Kartari Yoga’, its 
good effects are diluted in favourable houses, and in unfavourable 
houses its evil effects gets accentuated. 

XV — Shubh Kartari Yoga 

In Shubh Kartari Yoga the results are opposite. 

XVI — While transiting, the position of other planets should also 
be taken into account. The placement of benefic planets in 4th, 8th, 
and Sth and 9th from its position is good, whereas malefic planets 
cause evil. These rules are similar to what have been prescribed 
by Parasara in judgment of Dasha/Antardasha. 

XVII—In passing through the first 10 degrees of a sign, Mars and 
Sun give immediate results. Transits of slow moving planets, Saturn 
and Jupiter are held to be most powerful. The two and half-year 
results should be judged from Saturn, the yearly results from Jupiter, 
the monthly from other planets and daily results from Moon. 
XVIII — Treating each planet as Lagna for transit results. 
Phala Deepika, a respected old treatise on Hindu astrology has 
propounded the principle that for assessment of transit results the 


302 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


placement of each planet in the birth horoscope be treated as Lagna 
and results of various houses assessed accordingly. This will be 
clear from following example. 
XIX — while transiting over a sign having no Bindus in its Ashtak 
Varga, a planet will give very bad results, which may even, entail 
loss of life. But while transiting over a house with 7 or 8 Bindus 
excellent results would be forthcoming like high government job or 
substantial profit in business. 
XX — Timing result of transit 
According to Phala Deepika the good or bad results will occur 
only when a planet crosses the degree of its longitude in the birth 
horoscope. For example if in the birth chart Jupiter is at 15 degrees 
in Aries and it is transiting in Scorpio having 8 Bindus then the good 
effects of this house will be forthcoming only when Jupiter reaches 
15 degrees. 
XXI — The effect of the house will be promoted even when a 
malefic occupies his own house. If a planet were in his sign of 
debilitation or in his enemy's house, the house occupied will be 
damaged. 
XXn — "If a benefic happens to own a Dusthan (6, 8 or 12), it will 
destroy the house occupied by him even when he may be occupying 
his sign of exaltation, malefic in exaltation will do good to the house 
occupied by him if it owns a good house.” Phala Deepika. 
XXIII — The transit of planets in houses containing more Bindus 
is productive of good. This rule does not apply to houses 6, 8 and 
12, for performance of auspicious functions. 


Chapter XV 


Dasha 
How to Interpret Dasha 


There are many types of Dasha prevalent for delineation 
of a horoscope. Parasara himself mentions about 32 Dashas. But 
the most popular Dasha in Kaliyuga is Vimshottari Dasha. The 
other Dashas in vogue are Ashttotari and Yogini. 

A Vimshottari means hundred and twenty. This is the total 
years allotted to all the planets representing 120 years of a full 
span of man’s life. While applying Vimshottari Dasha it is necessary 
to follow Parasari principles, which have been summarized as below. 

1. Lords of Lagna, and Trikonas (Sth and 9th houses) are always 
auspicious. : 

2. Lords of Kendras and Trikona when combined give Raj Yoga * 
of a high order. 

3. In the Rasis of Venus, (Taurus and Libra) as Lagna, Saturn is 
Yoga Karka, while in the Rasis of Saturn, (Capricorn and 
Aquarius) as Lagna, Venus is Yoga Karka. Similarly for the 
Rasis Cancer of Moon and Leo of Sun as Lagnas, Mars is 
Yoga Karka as these are lords of Kendra and Trikona. 

4. Lords of 3, 6 and 11 are evil. 

5. Lords of 8 and 12 are neutral and give result according to 
planets they are associated with. 

6. If a benefic planet is lord of two Kendras it ceases to be 
benefic. 

7. Similarly, malefic lord of two Kendras shed malevolence but 
act in a benefic manner only if they are also lord of a Trikona. 

Auspicious Planets for various Lagnas 

1. Aries: Jupiter and Sun are auspicious as they are lords of 9 and 

5 If there is relation between Jupiter and Saturn then Jupiter ceases 

to be benefic. 

Mars as Lagna and 8th lord and Moon lord of four are neutrals. 

Venus becomes Marka if associated with malefics. Malefics 

become Markesh by association with Saturn. 

Jupiter and Sun combination make Raj Yoga even though Jupiter is 

also lord of twelve. 


304 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


2. Taurus: Saturn and Mercury are good and Saturn alone is Raj 

Yoga Karka. 

Saturn Mercury combination is very good, as both are Trikona lords. 

Mercury does not become Marka by owning two, as it owns 9 

also. 

3. Gemini: Venus alone is auspicious. Moon does not become 
Marka if not associated with malefics. Mercury plus Venus is 
Raj Yoga Karka. Mars and Saturn are Markas. 

4. Cancer: Mars is Raj Yoga Karka and Jupiter is good. Saturn 
is ‘Marka’. 

5. Leo: Mars is Raj Yoga Karka and Jupiter is good. Mercury 
and other malefics are ‘Marka’. 

6. Virgo: Venus alone is auspicious and is not a ‘Marka’ even 
when it owns 2nd. Mars and other planets are 'Marka’. - 

7. Libra: Saturn Mercury is good. Moon-Mercury is Raj Yoga 
Karka. Mars is ‘Marka’. 

8. Scorpio: Jupiter - Moon is good. Sun- Moon is Raj Yoga karka. 
Jupiter by owning 2 is not ‘Marka’. Mercury and other evil 
planets are Markas. 

9. Sagittarius: Venus is only evil planet. Mars — Sun are good, 
Sun Mercury is Yoga Karka. Saturn is chief Markesh. 

10. Capricorn: Only Venus is Raj Yoga Karka. Venus Mercury is 
good. If Venus conjoins Mercury it makes extra ordinary Raj 
Yoga. Mars may become Markesh. 

11. Aquarius: Venus is good and Yoga Karka Jupiter Moon and 
Mars are evil. 

12. Pisces: Mars and Moon are good. Mars plus Jupiter are Yoga 
Karka. Mars does not kill but Saturn and Mercury do. 


Important Factors for Interpreting Dasha system 

1. The important dashes of a person's life are as per Parasara, 
Dasha of Lagna lord, 10th lord and Dasha of an exalted planet. 
2. Adverse Dashas 

i) The 4th Mahadasha from birth, if it happens to be of Saturn or 
ii) The 6th of Jupiter or 

iii) The 9th Mahadasha of Rahu or Mars give unfavourable results. 
This is inspite of the planet having good lordship. 


Dasha 305 


If a person is born in Dasha of Mars, Saturn's Dasha will be fourth, 

For one born in Venus Rahu Dasha will be fifth and Jupiter Dasha 

will be sixth. For one born in Ketu Dasha, Mars's Dasha will be 

fifth from him. 

iv) Other Dashas that are bad are Dasha of a planet who is placed 

in the last degree of a sign. 

v) Dasha of lord of 6, 8 and 12. 

3. The Dasha of a planet moving towards its exaltation point is 

called Arohini Dasha’. This Dasha is auspicious and will bring 

good results. 

4. The Dasha of a planet after attainment of the exaltation point 

moves towards debilitation is called ‘Avrohini Dasha’. This Dasha 

causes unhappiness and misery. If the planet is in exaltation, own 

or friendly sign the Dasha gives moderate results, 

Malefic in the Fourth 

If any malefic planet during the major Dasha of that planet and 

Antra occupies the 4th place from a malefic planet one may lose 

one's house and property. 

a) IfMars occupies the fourth there is possibility of fire, accident, 
sudden death of cattle or sudden danger. 

b) IfSaturn is there pain in the chest, headache or diseases due 
to nervous system. 

c) Sun: displeasure of government, problem in career, loss of 
money and property. 

d) Rahu, diseases due to poison, theft. 

Planets in 1/7 axis 

These Dashas and Antra Dasha are not favourable excepting, Mars 

Moon opposition. Saturn and Jupiter in 1/7 give good results, Mars 

and Jupiter also are good in one and seven. 

Beneficial Dashas: 

The following Dashas are considered to give good results 

I. Dasha of an exalted planet if it is strong in Shadbala would 
give extremely good results in the form ofhealth, wealth and 
happiness including high status. 

2. The Dasha of a planet who is strong in Shadbalas, is in its own 
house, or in a friend’ house gives good results. This Dasha is 
known as 'Shubh Dasha’. 


306 


10. 


11. 


12. 


13. 
14. 


15. 


16. 


17. 


Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


Dasha of a planets who is strong in Ashtak Varga having more 
than five benefic points in its bhinAshtak Varga or placed in a 
Rasi with more than 28 benefic Bindus. 

Planet who is exalted, in its own or friendly house, gets 
debilitated in Navamsa or is in inimical sign in Navamsa gives 
mixed results in the first half and favourable results in the second 
half. 

The house aspected by its lord gives good results during its 
Dasha. 

Dashas of the planet who are involved in Raj Yogas give good 
results. Combination of Kendra Trikona is a Raj Yoga of a 
high order. 

According to Laghu Parasari Dasha of a planet associated 
with the lord of the 5th or 9th is also auspicious. Similarly Dasha 
of a planet with benefic is good and gives wealth. 

Dasha of Lagna lord if associated with lord of 5 and 9 give Raj 
Yoga. 

According to Laghu Parasari Dasha of lord of 10 occupying 
the 9th house confers fame, prosperity and happiness. Same 
are the results if lord of 10 is associated with lord of four. 
Dashas of the lords of six and that of seven become auspicious 
if they occupy 10th house or are associated with the 10th lord,’ 
according to Laghu Parasari 

Dashas of the planets owning two Marka houses, 2nd and 7th 
(Venus for Aries and Mars for Libra) give good results if they 
are in the 4th or associated with 4th lord. 

"Lords of 6, 8, or 12 associated with lords of five give auspicious 
results”- Laghu Parasari 

Dasha of lord of 4 in 10 or of lord of 10 in four is auspicious. 
Dasha of planets associated with lord of five and ten confer 
power and authority. 

Dashas of lord of 5 in 10 or of 10 in its own house confer 
wealth and power. 

Dashas of lord of 9 associated with that of five gives children 
and authority. Same are the results of lord of 4 with 10. 

If the planets Rahu and Ketu are in angles having relation with 
lord of Trikonas or in Trikona having relation with lord of 
kendras they give auspicious results. Rahu in the 5th is said to 


Dasha 307 


be most malefic for progeny unless it has relation with lord of 
trine or angle. 

18. If an exalted or auspicious planet occupies 5, 6, and 7 places 
from a planet, it gives auspicious results. 

19. Similarly a planet in 4th exalted or in its own house gives good 
results. 


Adverse Dashas: (See also Dasha Chidra at the end this chapter) 
Dasha Chidra: Taken from Varahamihira Brihat Jatak 

The person gets the royal power in the Antardasha of the most 
powerful planet who combines in the 10th or in the first. He loses 
that power in the Antardasha of the planet who is unfriendly or 
Neecha house because such period is called Chidra Dasha. Then 
he must seek protection from a powerful king. 


Take a planet in the first or 10 and whichever is the stronger 
predict acquisition of power during that Antardasha. If there are 
no planets in the first or the tenth find out which of the lot is strongest 
and ascribe the power to him during his Antardasha. Such kingly 
power or office will be lost when the Antardasha of a planet, 
which occupies an unfriendly or debilitated Rasi, intervenes. 

This is called Chidra Dasha, which means accident or misfortune 
as well as hole, and therefore lie gets into unfortunate position by 
losing his power. 


Note (Dasha Chidra is also the beginning of a new Mahadasha or 
ending of an old Mahadasha. These represent, changes in one's 
life.) See previous page. 

Other bad Dashas are: 

1. Dasha of a planet conjoined with a malefic is bad. 

2. Dashas of malefic planets give adverse results. 

3. Dasha of a planet who is weak in Ashtak Varga and debilitated 
is bad and confers losses. This is known as 'Rikta Dasha’. 

4. Dasha ofa planet who is at the lowest point of debilitation or in 
enemy's Navamsa or in inimical sign is called Arishta Dasha’ 
(period of misfortune). One loses health, wealth and name. 

5. Avrohini Dasha proves most in-auspicious if the Dasha lord is in 
inimical or in debilitation sign or in the Navamsa of the same sign. 
6. Dasha of retrograde planets give unpredictive results. In medical 


308 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


astrology they give adverse results and are not good for health. 

8. The planet in last degrees of sign is not capable of giving good 
results. 

9. Dasha of a planet with ‘Mandi’ is not good. 

10. Planets placed in 3rd, 5th or 7th Nakshatra from Janam 
Nakshatra give adverse results. 

11. Planet aspected by malefics or in Papkartari Yoga or combust 
does not give good results. 

12. Dashas of the lords of 6, 8 and 12 are inauspicious. According 
to Phala Deepika Dasha of any one of the lords of 6, 8 and 12 
in the Antra of any one of them gives bad results. Similarly 
Dasha of planets posited in 6, 8 or 12 or Antra of any one of 
them is bad. 

13. According to Phala Deepika there will be theft in the house, 
troubled by enemies during Dasha of a malefic planet and Antra 
of any one of the 3rd, 5th or 7th Nakshatra reckoned from 
Janam Nakshatra. It will result in Dasha of a malefic and in 
the Antra Dasha of the lord of the Moon or the 8th house 
therefrom. 


14. All debilitated planets in inimical sign or in 6 and 12 will produce 
adverse results. Similarly, malefic placed like this will cause 
misery. 

15. The native will face danger from enemies, suffer loss or position 
and earn hostility of persons who had been his friends, during 
Dasha of a planet and Antra Dasha of the planet who is (1) 
inimical to lord of Dasha (2) who is in inimical sign (3) one 
who is posited in the 6th or (4) who is inimical to lord of Lagna. 

16. The planets posited in 6, 8 and 12 from lord of Dasha are not 
good, rest give good results, 

Important: Planets in their Dashas will give two types of results 

1. Relating to their own signification like Sun for authority, Mars 
for land, brothers, Jupiter for wealth and children, Venus for 
wife, wealth etc. 

2. Relating to their ownership of different houses. For example 
lord of 5 and 9 will give auspicious results while those of 6, 8 or 
12 will give adverse results. 


Dasha 309 


Dasha of Planets 

If the planets are strong they give good results. A planet is strong if 
it is exalted, in its Mooltrikona or own sign, in Kendra, 
trikona or 11 houses, aspected or with benefic planets or is in 
‘Shubhkartari’ Yoga. 

A Planet is weak if it is debilitated, in enemy sign, is combust, is 
aspected by malefics, is in 6, 8 or 12 or aspected by their lords, are 
conjunct with Rahu/ Ketu or in 'Papkartari Yoga’. 

Results 

Strong Sun: High status, health, wealth, conveyance, and purity of 
mind. Kalidas in Uttarkalamitra says, "An auspicious Sun will give 
children, intelligence, wisdom, high status and power, knowledge, 
wealth, fame, valour, happiness and divine favour." 

According to Saravalli he profits from new medicines and roads, 
chemical supplies gets promotion, wealth and fame. 

Weak Sun: According to Parasara, miserable, loss of wealth and 
fame, living in foreign country, punishment by government, illness, 
danger to father, wrath of public, fracture of bones, fever, loss of 
confidence. 

According to Phala Deepika there will be intense anguish and 
danger from concealed wealth. His grains will be burnt and his 
wife and children would be anguished. 

Dasha of strong Moon: "Wealth, agriculture, auspicious 
ceremonies, and conveyance, favour of government, success, 
vehicles, son and blessing of goddess Laxmi” - Parasara According 
to Phala Deepika there will be peace of mind, success in all ventures, 
acquisition of wealth, good food, gains of wife, son and clothes and 
devotion to Brahmins. 

Weak Moon: Mental derangement, depression, and problem for 
mother, loss of wealth and status. 

Mars: 

Strong Mars: high status, wealth, agriculture, lands, conveyance, 
jewellery, good relations with brothers victory over enemies. 
According to Phala Deepika gain of money by falsehood, cheating 
and cruel actions. Enjoyment of fortune of others. 

According to Phala Deepika if Mars in an Urdhvamukha sign or in 
his sign of exaltation is posited in the 10th or 11th house, the native 
will acquire kingdom in his Dasha. He will become a king and 


310 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


causes destruction of his enemies. He will possess many vehicles 
and a huge army and will feed many people. 

Weak Mars: Accidents, diseases, theft, bile and blood infection, 
unchaste women, conflict with wife, epilepsy, cuts and wounds, 
arrogant, unethical and irreligious. 

Strong Mercury: high achievements in education, business, wealth, 
righteousness and virtue. 

According to Phala Deepika meeting with friends, happiness and 
admiration from learned people are the results. 

Weak Mercury: mental illness, nervousness, skin problems, 
disruption in education, foreign travel, loss of wealth, urinary problem, 
theft, fire, fright of the government. If Mercury is in the 6th, 8th or 
the 12th house, income, passion and wealth suffers. Diseases like 
jaundice and rheumatism may take hold. 

Beginning of Dasha gives wealth and comforts, property 
and children. Middle part of the Dasha brings recognition from the 
king and last part of Dasha brings in miseries and obstacles. 
Strong Jupiter: Benefit from government, happiness, wealth, 
children, education, health, young, wife etc. 

According to Phala Deepika meeting friends, wealth, happiness 
from wife and children, honour from the king will be experienced. 
Weak Jupiter: change of residence, loss of wealth children and 
mental tension. 

Strong Venus: wealth, ornaments, marriage, vehicles, job, 
recognition, house, welfare of children. Commandership of army, 
ministership, religious ceremonies, sumptuous food, status. If it is 
lord of nine or ten and posited in Lagna it gives rise to immense 
pleasures, achieves high status, will construct temples and tanks. 
Will eat sumptuous food will have status, wealth, assets, wife and 
children. 


According to Phala Deepika, sports, vehicles, precious stones, 
company of young women, intellectual pursuits, and travel by sea 
and honour by the king are the results. 

According to Phala Deepika If Venus be in the sign of exaltation or 
in his own sign and be posited in 10,11 or 12, and free from influence 
of malefics, he will gain much wealth, will be full of glory and 
splendour, will be widely praised and enjoy all comforts. 

Weak Venus (in 6,8 or 12, debilitated or in the sign of 12thlord) 


Dasha 311 


becomes ‘Marka’ diseases of sex, loss of business, wife, distress 
from women folk, loss in business, agony to wife and children are 
other results. 

Strong Saturn: wealth, status, business, education, and government 
job. 

According to Phala Deepika wealth as a result of war or disturbance, 
servants, old women. 

Weak Saturn: Agony, fear, theft, and loss of wealth, diseases, 
grief of wife and children, imprisonment. 

According to Phala Deepika, loss of wealth, gout, rheumatism loss 
of agriculture, sex with wicked women, desertion of servants is the 
results. 

Strong Rahu: wealth, job, new house, marriage, royal recognition 
in foreign land, jewellery, travels abroad. Rahu represents foreign 
and Muslim or Christian. During his Dasha contacts with foreigners 
are established. 

According to Phala Deepika if associated with benefics or in a 
good house will enjoy splendour like a king. Fame will spread far 
and wide, gets wealth, success and happiness Rahu is good in Virgo, 
Scorpio and Pisces and will give in his Dasha honour and happiness, 
lordship of lands conveyance and servants. All these are liable to 
be lost at the conclusion of the Dasha. 

If Rahu and Ketu are posited in Kendra or Trikona or be connected 
with lords of Kendra or Trikona they become Yoga Karka and give 
good results. 

If Rahu and Ketu are well placed in the Lagna, 5 or 9 they give the 
effect of Yoga Karka planet in Antra Dasha of Yoga Karka 
irrespective of the fact whether they are connected or not with a 
Yoga Karka planet. 

Weak Rahu: (Rahu in 8 or 12 is bad, according to Parasara), 
shifting of place, mental agony, death of wife, disappointments, 
irritation, debts, theft, diseases. Period is especially bad if malefics 
or Marka planets afflict it. Disappointments, injury, accidents, debts, 
theft, cheating, heavy expenditure, diseases ailments and betrayal. 
According to Phala Deepika danger from king, poison, fire and 
weapons, humiliation from low caste people, demotion in status, 
loss of reputation is the result. 

Strong Ketu: Moksha, spiritualism, studies. (Ketu in angles, Trikonas 


312 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


or 11th house). 

In benefic signs or in benefic Vargas, favours from kings, pleasure 
from children and vehicles, happiness from travelling in the country 
and foreign land. Ketu in 3, 6 or 11th house will give happiness in 
its Dasha and native gains from the government. 

Beginning of the Dasha brings kingship, in the middle of the Dasha, 
feeling of intense fear and towards the end of Dasha travel to far 
flung countries and fear of sickness. 

Weak Ketu: Conjunct with or aspected by malefic planets while 
posited in 2nd, 8th or 12th house brings disruptions with immediate 
relations, destruction of property anguish and diseases. Cheating, 
loss, sickness. Dental trouble, pain in legs. 

Rahu and Ketu are shadowy planets and give results of planets 
with which they are conjunct otherwise they give effect of the lord 
of the sign they are in. 

Dasha of the Lord of First House: 

Strong: According to Phala Deepika happy life, eminence in the 
world. His body will be sturdy and healthy and his prosperity will 
increase. . 

Weak: If the first lord is badly placed, native will be imprisoned, 
fear, diseases and mental anguish. Funeral rites, loss of position 
and misfortunes are the results. 

Dasha of the Lord of Second House: 

Strong: Acquisition of family, good daughters, good food, and money 
through lectures, eloquence of speech and appreciation by 
audience. 

Weak: loss of wealth, harsh speech eye trouble, displeasure of 
king, acts stupidly before audience. It is also Marka house. 
Dasha of the Lord of Third House: Strong: commander of an 
army, attains honours, and shows courage. Will be popular for good 
qualities, cooperation from brothers. 

Weak: Loss of brothers and sisters, harassed by secret enemies, 
humiliation and loss of pride 

Dasha of the Lord of Fourth House: 

Strong: success in agriculture, happy relation with wife, 
conveyance, wealth, and higher status. 

Weak: danger to house, distress to mother and relations, danger 
from water, loss of agriculture/land. 


Dasha 313 


Dasha of the Lord of Fifth House: 

Strong: birth of Son, becomes Minister of a king, conferment of 
honour, virtuous actions. 

Weak: loss of son, wander aimlessly, deception, stomach disorder, 
pleasure of the king. 

Dasha of the Lord of Sixth House: 

Strong: According to Phala Deepika overcoming enemies by his 
valour, free from disease, generous and powerful, wealth, splendour, 
and prosperity. 

Weak: Theft, poverty, sickness, serve others, humiliation, loss of 
reputation, injuries to the body. 

Dasha of the Lord of Seventh House: 

Strong: Wife, new clothes, ornaments pleasure trips, virility or 
physical strength. 

Weak: Affairs with wicked women, separation from wife, distress 
to son in law, venereal disease, wander aimlessly. Something 
untoward will happen through wicked women. 

Dasha of the Lord of Eighth House: 

Strong: According to Phala Deepika Progress in profession, clear 
debts. End of disputes, acquire cattle and servants. 

Weak: According to Phala Deepika Sorrow, loss of intelligence, 
intense sexual desire, jealousy, fits, poverty, sickness humiliation 
and end of life. 

Dasha of the Lord of Ninth House: 

Strong: Royal favour, prosperity, meritorious deeds, sons, and grand 
children. 

Weak: death to elder brother or father. Distress to wife and children 
and poverty 

Dasha of the Lord of Tenth House: 

Strong: Name, fame, wealth and reputation, and virtuous actions. 
Weak: Wicked actions, failure in enterprise, live away from 
homeland and distress and loss of honour. 

‘Dasha of the Lord of Eleventh House: 

Strong: Growth in prosperity, domestic happiness. 

Weak: ear disease, trouble to elder brother, son sickly, misery and 
deception. 


314 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


Dasha of the Lord of the Twelfth House: 

Strong: Royal Honours, meritorious deeds spend extravagantly on 

good causes. 

Weak: disease, dishonour, slavery and loss of wealth. 

How to Interpret Dashas: 

According to Laghu Parasari all the planets good or bad, when 

in their Dasha and their own Antra Dasha do not give good or bad 

results according to their nature. Even a Marka planet does not 
become a killer in its own Antra. It may not give any effect but 
some effect, however little it may be, would be felt. 

According to Parasara treat Dasha Nath as Lagna. If there are 

malefics in 5th, 8th and 9th from the sign having running Dasha 

their Dashas will be troublesome. 

Results of Antardasha Lord 

1. If lord of the Lagna is posited in its own Navamsa, 
Dwadasamsa, or Drekkan, the Antras are going to be 
auspicious. Similarly if it is also placed in its own Trimsamsa or 
that of its friend, results will be good. 

2. Ifthe lord of the sign in whose Navamsa the lord of Lagna is 
posited is occupying the Navamsa, Drekkan or Dwadasamsa 
of a friend and is aspected by a friend, its Antra is said to be 
auspicious. 

3. The Antra of a planet occupying the Navamsa, Dwadasamsa 
or Drekkan of the 5th and 8th lords are auspicious. Similarly 
Antra of a planet occupying Navamsa, Dwadasamsa or 
Drekkan of the 4th house is good. 

4. During the Dasha of benefics not related to Yoga Karka and 
Antardasha of one of the Yoga Karka, and Patyantra Dasha 
of other good planet, auspicious results are generally 
experienced. During Dasha of related planets good results in 
full are witnessed. 

5. Even malefics (lords of 6,8, and 12) having relation with the 
Yoga Karka planets give good results depending upon their 
strength and relation with Yoga Karka planet in their main and 
sub period. 

Inauspicious Dasha 

I. Dashas of the lords of 6, 8 or 12 are inauspicious. 

2. Ifthe lord of the Marka associates with that of 6th or the first, 
its Antra brings fever. 


Dasha 315 


3. Similarly, the Antra of the Lagna lord associated with lord of 
six will cause diseases as per the characteristics of the 
Shadvargas of the planet in the Rasi of which Lagna lord is 
located. e.g. in the Shadvargas of Moon it will cause dyspepsia 
etc., in that of Mars blood disorder etc. 

4. In the Dasha of lord of 6 and Antra of a Markesh there is 
danger from arms and chances of great suffering. 

5. If Rahu, Ketu, Saturn or Mars are associated with Markesh 
and occupy the 8th, their Dashas and Antras cause diseases. 

6. Ifthe Lagna lord and lord of 6 are associated with the lord of 
8 or Markesh their Antras cause harm. Lord of malefics may 
cause death whereas benefics give sickness. 

Special Results of Dasha and Antradasha of Venus and Saturn: 

According to Uttarkalamitra if Saturn and Venus are both strong 

and become Yoga Karka results of their Dasha and Antardasha 

are very unfavourable. (Strength means exalted, own house, 

Vargottam etc.) 

Under such condition the native will be as good as a beggar even 

though he may be rich like Kuber. 

But if one is strong and another is weak the native will enjoy good 

results according to character and strength of stronger planet. 

If both of them be weak and are posited in 6, 8, and 12 or one of 

them is situated in 6th or 8th place or another, or they own any 

Dusthan or are posited there or associated with lord of Dusthan 

the results of their Dashas or Antardasha will be exceptionally 

good. 


Dasha of the 9th lord 
Based on an article "If Luck is strong.......... " by K.N. Rao 
(Published in Journal of Astrology July — September 2001) 


According to K.N. Rao if a strong and favourable Dasha comes in 
one's life one becomes an achiever and even a historical figure. "A 
strong 9th house and 9th, lord and / or ninth lord or the Navamsa 
condition of the ninth lord, make so much difference to the strength 
of a horoscope if the primary condition of the Lagna or the Lagna 
lord not being weak exists. In this scheme of things the fifth house and 


316 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


the 5th lord too must figure because it is 9th from 9th"' 

In fact, Vargottam Lagna, Vargottam Moon, exalted planets 
in birth horoscope or the Navamsa and a good Dasha scheme help 
one overcome many adversities and make one rise high. 

(Birth details are available in the hook Famous Women of 
Twentieth Century) 
Srimavo Bandarnaike, Mars 21 28, 17.04.1916,15:37: Colombo 


Stimave 


Handaranaika 


The 9th house has exalted Sun as Lagna Lord. 9th lord Mars 
debilitated is aspected by Jupiter giving it Neech Bhanga Raj Yoga. 
(9th lord is exalted in Navamsa.) She was Prime Minister of Sri 
Lanka for full three terms, nearly fourteen years. 

Indira Gandhi, 19:11:1917, Jupiter 15:00 Mars 1600 


Dasha 317 


It is a rare example where the 9th lord, Jupiter is Vargottam and so 
is Mars the 5th lord. She was the most powerful Prime Minister of 
the world's largest democracy. 


Golda Meir 
2-5-1898 


24.59 


The famous woman Prime Minister of Israel, Golda Meir, has an 
exalted 9th lord Sun in a Raj Yoga with 10th lord. But it is debilitated 
in Navamsa. She was Prime Minister for only four years when she 


had to resign after Israel suffered in Yom Kippnr War on 6th October 
1973. 


The iron lady and Prime Minister of England for a 10 years. 


The 9th lord Mercury is Vargottam with exalted Yoga Karka in 
Lagna. 


Vimshottari Dasha 
There are many types of Dasha prevalent for delineation of a 
horoscope. Parasara himself mentions about 42 Dashas. But the 
most popular Dashas in Kaliyuga is Vimshottari Dasha. Among 


318 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


other Dashas in vogue are Kaal Chakra, Ashtottari and Yogini. 

Vimshottari means hundred and twenty. This is the total years 
allotted to all the planets representing 120 years of a full span of 
man’s life. 

While applying Vimshottari Dasha it is necessary to follow Parasari 

principles, which have been summarized as below. 

1. Lords of Lagna, and Trikonas (fifth and 9* houses) are always 
auspicious. 

2. Lords of Kendras and Trikona when combined give Raj Yoga 
of a high order. 

3. In the Rasis of Venus Taurus and Libra, Saturn is Yoga Karka, 
while in the Rasis of Saturn Capricorn and Aquarius, Venus is 
Yoga Karka. Similarly, for the Rasis Cancer of Moon and Leo 
of Sun Mars is Yoga Karka as these are lords of Kendra and 
Trikona. 

4. Lords of 3, 6 and 11 are evil. 

5. Lords of 8 and 12 are neutral and give result according to 
planets they are associated with. 

6. Ifa benefic planet is lord of two Kendras it ceases to be 
benefic- Kendra Adhipati Dosha. Similarly, malefic lord of two 
Kendras shed malevolence but act in a benefic manner only if 
they are also lord of a Trikona. 

7. Lords of houses 2 and 7 and planets posited in them or aspecting 
them become Markas if the time of death has come. Saturn 
and Rahu also become unqualified Markas if Dashas of lords 
of two and seven does not come at the predestined time. 

Some _ Definitions 

1. Sampooran Dasha: 

Dasha of a planet which is very strong and occupies highest 
degree of exaltation 

2. Poorna Dasha ; strong and exalted planet's Dasha. 

3. Rikta Dasha - empty or without good results: Planet with no 
strength and debilitated. "Dasha of a debilitated 3, 6, or 8 or 
debilitated planet placed in 3, 6 and 8 gives very good results." 
- Parasara 

4. Arishta Dasha: extreme degree of debilitation ,inimical sign 
or Neecha Navamsa 


Dasha 319 


5. Avrohini - getting down -towards Neecha 

Arohini: moving towards exaltation getting up. 

7. Good in the beginning Poorvaardha (initial half) and 
mixed in Uttarardha latter half. Planet strong in exaltation 
or Mooltrikona sign or in own and friend's house but in Navamsa 
debilitated or in enemy house give good results at the beginning 
and bad at the later half. 

8. Neshta Dasha: malefic Dasha combust, debilitated, inimical 
sign inimical or Neecha Navamsa. 

9, Vakri or Retrograde: Honour injured -fall from position: 
According to Saravalli a benefic planet in retrogression 
becomes strong and confers kingdom. Malefic planets 
retrograde give grief and purposeless wandering 
Retrograde creates deficiency for house owned and where 
posited. Retrograde increase effect of the planet it is with or 
aspects. 

10. Dasha of a planet in 3, 6, and 11 gives fulfillment of desire 

Results of Antra : 

Malefic Mahadasha Malefic Antra is painful. 

Mahadasha malefic / Antra benefic - evil first benefic later. 

Benefic / benefic - good. 

Benefic / Malefic - benefic first malefic later. 

Position 2/12, 6/8 causes loss of wealth, mental trouble. 

Interpretation of Dasha - Important Principles 
While interpreting the results of Dashanath KN Rao has taught 
an important principle which is normally overlooked by ordinary 
astrologers. The principle is to treat the dashanath as lagna and 
predict accordingly. According to Rao put your finger on the 

Mahadasha planet and read the chart from there." This rule is based 

on principles enunciated by Parashara and classical book 

Phaladeepika. 

Emphasizing the role of making dasha lord as lagna Parashara 
writes " The placement of Mars in kendra, trikona or in the 3" and 
11"house from lord of Mahadasha ( Rahu in this particular case) 
there will be gain of red cloths, journey, meeting with the king, 
prosperity to children, abundant goodness from God etc" 

Similarly, according to Phaladeepika "Whichever house 
reckoned from the lord of Mahadasha is occupied by lord of the 
sub period, it is only the result arising from that house that will come 


oa 


320 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


to pass in that sub period, and if the lord of the sub period happens 
to be the 6" 8” or 12" from Mahadasha lord , the result will be 
most unpleasant, while the remaining houses will give favourable 
results. 

This principle will be clear from following example given by 
KN Rao in his book, "Timing Event through Vimshottari Dasha”. 


110, 1938 
ll:42 a.m, 


Dasha 321 


Analysis of the Horoscope 

Good technical Education ; 

For education to be good see the dasha scheme, This will also 
tell you whether the education is technical or not. 

Examine it from Lagna (the 5" house has Ketu aspected by 
Mars) which in turn is aspected by Saturn. This promises technical 
education. 

Now see the dasha scheme: At the age of 11 he got the dasha 
of Mars which is in the 10” house of distinction with directional 
strength aspected by Saturn. This confirms technical education. 

Mahadasha of Rahu : Rahu is in the 11", a good position to be 
in and is with Sun lord of five and Mercury lord of 7 and 10 making 
a Rajayogas. This dasha is bound to be good. From Rahu debilitated 
Jupiter having Neecha Bhanga Rajyoga is in the 4* and Saturn 
fourth and 5" lord from Rahu is in the 6" from Rahu. That shows 
success through competitions. 

Now see from Moon: Rahu is with 10* lord Mercury with 
Sun which shows government service. 

Now examine the condition of Saturn the sub-period lord.Saturn 
is in Kendra from birth lagna and in the house of Jupiter which has 
been praised by Uttarkalamitra. It is aspected by Mars, 5* lord in 
the 10" house. Then from Rahu it is in the 6" house of competition 

: from Moon it is the 5" and 6" lord in the 7", a Kendra which has 
been describes as the place of pad praptthe position giver. Most 
important is the next sub- period of Mercury the 7" and 10" lord. 
This showed both high position and marriage. 

in navamsa Rahu is in the 11 “house again and Saturn is in 
the 7" house of padprapti and marriage. From Rahu in navamsa 
Saturn is in a trine aspected by Jupiter and is with Mercury, the 5" 
lord also receiving the aspect of Jupiter from the 5" house. The 
best feature of navamsa is that Jupiter aspects Mercury, Saturn 
and Rahu and the Moon from the third house. Rahu period was 
bound to be good. 

While discussing the Mahadasha of Jupiter , Rao states that 
next period of Jupiter would be comfortable but not as good as that 
of Rahu. Because it is debilitated. But being involved in an exchange 
with Satum it must have been a period of making property. "What 
must have remained towards the end "of Jupiter period is an 
undistinguished record. See it in three ways: 

From the debilitated Jupiter in the birth horoscope, Rahu is in 


322 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


the 10" house with 6" and 8* lord, though Mercury here as the 9” 
lord could have prevented the ruination of his career. 

In the navamsa Rahu in the third house is being aspected by 
8* and 12" lord from Jupiter. In the dashmansha, Rahu is with the 
8* and 12"lords- hardly good for rise in power. 

Now the next dasha of Saturn aspected by Mars, the 12* lord 
in the birth horoscope, shows some controversy, bad confidential 
reports or lackluster performance as a result of which he would be 
overlooked for promotion. There were chances that person would 
be transferred to some public sector undertaking particularly where 
there was some construction or house building activity. Saturn in 
the 4* shows houses , Mars represent lands and being the twelfth 
lord a deputation as well, a deputation which may necessitate his 
retirement from service. 


The tenth lord of navamsa is in the 8* house while 10" lord of 
dashmansha is aspected by Sun from the 8* house. In such cases 
early retirement becomes beneficial. 


Role of debilitated Planets in the Horoscope : 

One should not be afraid of debilitated planets in the horoscope. 
It has been observed that in majority of the horoscopes of celebrities 
there are one or two debilitated planets. In the horoscope of world 
famous sitarist Ravi Shankar, Moon is debilitated in the 6* house. 


Moon is in Anuradha nakshatras which has been praised in 
classical books as conferring Rajyoga. The debilitated planet in three 
six , eight and twelve houses is also good as per principles of 
Parashara. In Ravi Shankra's horoscope the Saraswati yoga is 
visible from lagna as well as from Moon. This yoga of art, music 
and high learning is formed when three benefic planets Venus, 
Mercury and Jupiter are in 2™ house, trines or Kendras from lagna 
or Moon. Saraswati is goddess of learning, music and fine arts. 


Another horoscope of world known figure and a Noble Prize 
winner is that of Albert Einstein who has two debilitated planets 
Moon and Venus. 

Moon is again in the 6* house in Anuradha Nakshatra 
conferring Rajyoga. Mercury gets Neechabhanga Rajyoga by its 
association with an exalted planet Venus. This horoscope has again 
Saraswati Yoga both from lagna as well as Moon which according 
to Phaladeepika gives intelligence, mathematical skill as well as 
artistic ability, talent etc. 


Ravi Shankar 
Sitarist 
704.1920 
Varanasi 


Albert Einstein 
14-03-1879 
L130 
Olms Germany 


Dasha Chidra 

(Based on article written by K.N. Rao in Journal of Astrology 
~ April - June 2001) 

Every Mahadasha represents a major change from one set 
of circumstances while Antardasha in Mahadasha shows changes 
within pattern set by Mahadasha. 

Generally the change of a Mahadasha and the beginning of 
another is a landmark remembered as a Dasha Chidra. Some of 
the astrologers stress negative and disastrous changes only. 
However a change is a change. 

The changes in the Dashas could be of four kinds. 

a. From benefic to benefic 

b. From benefic to malefic 

€. From malefic to malefic 

d. From malefic to benefic. 

This will be visible in the changes from last Antardasha of the 


324 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


Mahadasha ending the beginning of the new Mahadasha whose 
Antardasha will be the same as that of Mahadasha lord. 
Examine the Following: 

1. House lordship of the Dasha lords - of ending or beginning of 
a Dasha lord - whether functional malefic or benefic. 

2. Placement of the Dasha lords - beginning and ending Dashas, 
whether in auspicious houses Trikonas or Kendras or in Dusthan 
houses. 

3. Conjunction of Dasha lords, ending - beginning . 

Aspects involved and conditions of the planets aspecting. 


5. Condition of the planets involved in Dashas exalted, own house, 
combust, debilitated etc. Whether planets are retrograde or 
direct. 


6. The Yogas planets are involved in. 


7. Study of Vargas - Good or bad fortune is flowing from which 
Varga. Special importance of Navamsa and Shashtyamsa (1/ 
60" division). Shashtyamsa should be studied only if birth time 
is correct. 


8. Placement of changing Mahadasha lords from each other 2/ 
12, 6/8 or 5/9 etc. 


9. Check with other Dashas Yogini or char Dasha. 

When does the Dasha Chidra begins - it is not casy 
to answer. It has been seen to have begun in some case in 
penultimate Antardasha of a Mahadasha and not the ultimate 
one. For example it may be Jupiter- Mars, followed by Jupiter 
-Rahu and continuing in Saturn- Saturn. 

It might have been observed that person have a big rise 
after many years of struggle or they might have a sudden fall after 
years of prosperity. Basically all these changes take place during 
Dasha Chidra. 

Please note in some case the 6/8 position of Mahadasha 
and Antardasha seem to be more effective in showing changes 
that have occurred. Note the degrees of the planets involved in 
Dasha Antardasha. The closer they are in degrees more 
effective are the results. 


Dasha 325 


Case Study 
Date of Birth 2.10.1940: 18 :05, Article by RS Pawar - Journal of 
Astrology 


2. MEM 


18:05 


Lagna Pisces with Ketu, 2 house Aries has Sat R and Jupiter R. 
Sixth house Simhahas Venus. Seventh house Virgo has Mars Sun 
and Rahu. Eighth house Libra has Moon and Mercury. 


Lagna 33° 36’, Sun 16° 07', Moon 00° 16’,Mars 05° 00', Mercury 
05° 33’, Jup 21° 22', 

Venus 2° 07', Saturn 20° 38', Rahu 17° 59° 

Birth : 

Garbashista: Is known as balance or Dasha at birth which 
may ultimately decide the pattern of life. Moon is the mind - mind 
of person. In this horoscope birth is in Chitra Nakshatra: Chitra 
Nakshatra's lord is Mars. Balance of Dasha at Birth is Mars 3 
years - 4 month - 9 days. Mars is lord of 2° house of Wealth and 
9' house of fortune placed in the 7” aspecting Lagna. It is with 
Sun lord of six and Rahu. The person concerned will be obsessed 
with making money and developing high connections. He will have 
lot of opposition, as Sun is lord of six. Mars is aggression, force and 
initiative. He will win money through exertion as it aspects 10" 
house also. 

General shape of the horoscope : 

Rahu Dasha - Completed his education, but he could not get 
ajob. Had dispute with his family members and left the house in 
anger during this second Chidra Dasha and got an ordinary job of 


326 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


wireless operator in police department. 

Next change of Dasha of Jupiter restarted his education, 
completed his engineering and got selected for Indian Engineering 
service. Jupiter Dasha will give him education, job and wealth. 
Next Dasha will be that of Saturn 

Satur, though debilitated in Rasi chart is exalted in Navamsa. 
It is lord of 11 and 12 posited in the house of wealth aspecting its 
own house of gains. It is with Jupiter Lagna lord and lord of tenth 
house. This Dasha is bound to be good. 

Mercury Dasha: Mercury is lord of 4" and 7" house 
placed in the 8* house. It is aspected by Saturn lord of 11' house 
and 12* house. It's dispositor is in the 6* house and in Navamsa it 
is in the 12* house aspected by Sun. This would be a period of 
humiliation. 

1st Chidra Dasha- Mars - Moon .July 1943. This Dasha 
Antardasha is in 2/12 axis. 

He was drowned in water but was saved. Mars is in the 7* 
house, which is a Marka house, and Moon is in the 8* house, which 
is a combination for Balarishta. There is Arishta Bhang Yoga. Moon 
is Vargottam and is aspected by Jupiter. Lagna lord is strong. 

Second Chidra Dasha: Rahu / Mars - end of 1961.- Both 
are malefic planets. During this period he had dispute with his 
parents and left the house in anger, as his parents were poor and 
wanted him to work. 

After leaving house he started looking for ajob and got an 
ordinary post of wireless operator in police department. Rahu Mars 
in the 7* house show journey. Antardasha lord Mars was aspecting 
10* house of profession. Rahu/ Mars show communication. Mars 
indicate defense or police type job. 

Jupiter is Lagna and 10* lord. This is a good Dasha as per 
dictum of Parasara. Jupiter is also involved in good Yogas, Gajkesari 
and Raj Yoga with lord of fifth house Moon and Kendra Trikona 
Yoga with lord of fourth and /* Mercury. It is also with Saturn, 
lord of gains 11™house and lord of 12™house. 

Jupiter Dasha - change of Dasha: 1962 

He restated his education. Got selected for post of Junior 

Engineer. 


Dasha 327 


Jupiter -Saturn: 1964: These are forming good Yogas with 
5" lord Moon. Saturn is exalted in Navamsa. Was selected for 
Indian Engineering service in the first attempt. Within 4 years of 
start of a new Dasha there was a change and he became a class I 
officer. 

Third Chidra Dasha: Jupiter - Rahu 1977 

These planets are placed in 6/8 axis. Rahu is in the 7" 
house. He was transferred and was depressed. Rahu is in degree 
conjunction with Sun the 6* lord. Rahu is in Nakshatra of Moon, 
5* lord placed in the 8* house. There is connection with Lagna 
lord showing illness. Moon is mind also, so mind is depressed. 
Change of Dasha: Saturn - Saturn 1979 

Rise in career and promotion to the rank of Deputy General. 

Saturn Mars. Mars is aspecting 10* house. Promoted as 
General Manager. He became famous for improving system of 
working. 

Saturn - Rahu. This is second last Antardasha and Dasha 
Chidra had started. Minister is very happy with him. Brought him 
to Delhi (Rahu in the 7 house). Earned lot of wealth. 

Fourth Chidra Dasha: Saturn -Jupiter - Rahu. 

Rahu is in 6/8 position from Dasha and Antar lord. Saturn is 
also lord of 12* house. Dispositor of Rahu is Mercury in the 8". 
Chidra Dasha planets are making connection with lords of trick 
house. He was suspended and CBI inquiry was made against him. 
Mercury is malefic for this Lagna and is in the 8* house of Rasi 
chart and in the 12” house of Navamsa. 

Mercury- Mercury: Had to face lot of humiliation. 

Mercury / Venus: Mercury is in 8* house and Venus is 8* 

lord. He lost his case in the court. 


Taken from Varahamihira Brihat Jatak 

The person gets the royal power in the Antardasha of the 
most powerful planet who combines in the 10th or of the Ist. He 
loses that power in the Antardasha of the planet who is unfriendly 
or Neecha house because such period is called Chidra Dasha. 
Then he must seek protection from a powerful king. 

Take a planet in the first or 10 and whichever is the stronger 
predict acquisition of power during that Antardasha. If there are 


328 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


no planets in the first or the tenth find out which of the lot is strongest 
and ascribe the power to him during his Antardasha. Such kingly 
power or office will be lost when the Antardasha of a planet, which 
occupies an unfriendly or debilitated Rasi, intervenes. 


This is called Chidra Dasha, which means accident or 


misfortune as well as hole, and therefore he gets into unfortunate 
position by losing his power. 


hs 
2: 
3. 


Dasha of a planet conjoined with a malefic is bad. 

Dashas of malefic planets give adverse results. 

Dasha of a planet who is weak in Ashtak Varga and debilitated 
is bad and confers losses. This is known as 'Rikta Dasha. 
Dasha of a planet who is at the lowest point of debilitation or 
in enemy's Navamsa or in inimical sign is called “Arishta 
Dasha’ (period of misfortune). One loses health wealth and 
name. 
Avrohini Dasha proves most in auspicious if the Dasha lord is 
in inimical or in debilitation sign or in the Navamsa of the 
same sign. 

Dasha of retrograde planets give unproductive results. In 
medical astrology they give adverse results and are not good 
for health. 
The planet in last degrees of sign (Rahu- Ana) is not capable 
of giving good results. 

Dasha of a planet with “Mandi’ is not good. 

Planets placed in 3°*, 5* or 7" Nakshatra from Janam 
Nakshatra give adverse results. 

Planet aspected by malefics or in Papkartari Yoga or combust 
docs not give good results. 

Dashas of the lords of 6, 8 and 12 are inauspicious. According 
to Phala Deepika Dasha of any one of the lords of 6, 8 and 12 
in the Antra of any one of them. Similarly planets posited in 6. 
8 or 12 or Antra of any one of them is bad. 

According to Phala Deepika there will be theft in the house, 
troubled by enemies during Dasha of a malefic planet and 
Antra of any one of the 3°, 5* or 7” Nakshatra reckoned 
from Janam Nakshatra. It will be result in Dasha of a malefic 


Dasha 329 


and in the Antra Dasha of the lord of the moon or the 8* 

house therefrom. 

7. All debilitated planets in inimical sign or in 6 and !2 will produce 
adverse results. Similarly malefic placed like this will cause 
misery. 

Result of Dashas of Various Planet: 

The native will face danger from enemies, suffer loss or 
position and earn hostility of persons who had been his friends, 
during Dasha of a planet and Antra Dasha of the planet who is (1) 
inimical to lord of Dasha (2) who is in inimical sign (3) one who is 
posited in the 6* or (4) who is inimical to lord of Lagna. 

The planets posited in 6.8 and 12 from lord of Dasha are not 
good, rest gives good results. 

Important: Planets in their Dashas will give two types of results 

1. Relating to their own signification like Sun for authority, Mars 
for land .brothers Jupiter for wealth and children, Venus for 
wife, wealth etc. 

2. Relating to their ownership of different houses. For example 
lord of 5 and 9 will give auspicious results while those of 6, 8 
or }2 will give adverse results. 

Dasha of Planets 

If the planets are strong they give good results. A planet is 
strong if it is exalted, in its Mooltrikona or own sign in Kendra 
Trikona or 11 houses, aspected or with benefic planets or is in 
Shubhkartari Yoga. A planet gives good results in the Dasha 
Antardasha if it is friend of Lagna lord. 

A Planet is weak if it is debilitated, in enemy sign, is combust, 
is aspected by malefics, is in 6, 8 or 12 or aspected by their lords, 
are conjunct with Rahu/ Ketu or in Papkartari Yoga. A planet gives 
adverse results if it is enemy of Lagna lord. 

Dasha of Sun (6 Years) 

Before giving results of Dasha of Sun, verify its Avastha 
whether it is Vargottam, exalted, in its own house, is Digbally etc. 
Also the type of Yogas, good or bad Sun is involved in like Buddha 
- Aditya Yoga, Shubh Vesi / Vasi, Pap Vesi / Vasi Ubhayachari etc. 
Sun as a malefic is good in 3“, 6" and 11 * house. It has a directional 


330 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


strength in the 10* house. 

Result of strong Sun gives high status, health, wealth, 
conveyance, and purity of mind. Kalidas in Uttarkalamitra says, 
"An auspicious Sun will give children, intelligence, wisdom, high 
status and power, knowledge, wealth, fame, valour, happiness and 
divine favour." 

According to Saravalli he profits from new medicines and 
roads, chemical supplies get promotion, wealth and fame. 

Result of weak Sun: According to Parasara, miserable, 
loss of wealth and fame, living in foreign country, punishment by 
government, illness, danger to father, wrath of public, fracture of 
bones, fever, loss of confidence. 

According to Phala Deepika there will be intense anguish 
and danger front concealed wealth. His grains will be burnt and his 
wife and children would be anguished. 

Sun in the First House 

Strong - Gives a strong moral nature, ambition, love of power 
and good health. 

Weak Sun makes one egotist, fond of flattery, false pride, 
vain glorious and fond of exaggeration. It also causes baldness and 
lack of children. 

Sun in various signs: 

In malefic signs gives few children and unhappiness. 

In fiery signs ambitious, short tempered, dominating. In earthy 
signs vain, impertinent and moody. In airy signs just, large hearted 
and of artistic taste. Watery signs give weakness for women and 
oblivious to personal good. 

Exalted or well aspected gives faith and self-confidence, moral 
growth and position of trust and authority. 

Sun in Leo: strong body but gives night blindness. 

Sun in the Second House 

Unless afflicted is not bad for wealth, is charitable, haughty 
and vain. Eyesight bad if afflicted, delay or problems in marriage. 

Sun in Taurus, Virgo or Capricorn does riot help accumulate 
wealth. 


Dasha 331 


Sun in the Third House 

According to Chamatkar Chintamani person with the Sun in 
the third is healthy, wealthy and wise. He is famous, modest, kind 
and aking. 

The Sun in Gemini, Libra or Sagittarius makes the native an 
author, publisher, professor or lawyer. He is fond of home and 
children and is of active mind. 

If Lagna or third house has any connection with the 8* lord / 
house it becomes Marka for self and brother respectively. 

But if the Sun is afflicted it causes loss of wealth, prestige, 
Enmity with government, ill health and fruitless travel 

See the horoscope of Dhirendra Brahmchari: Article 
by K.N. Rao in Journal of Astrology April 2000 


Here Sun is in the enemy Rasi. It is in the Bal Avastha with 
00° 50’ (this is also Mrityu Avastha). It is aspected by Saturn and 
is squared by Mars and Rahu). Sun is totally afflicted. Sun is also 
debilitated in Navamsa. 

In its Dasha Dhirendra Brahmchari who was once favourite 
of Indira Gandhi lost all influence with Gandhi family. With Rajiv 
Gandhi in power he fell out of grace with the royal court of the 
Prime Minister of India. Though he continued to live prosperously 
because of his good investments, some court cases for smuggling 
arms were registered against him. He had to make fruitless short 
journeys to Delhi and other places But the presence of malefics in 
the 6* house helped him overcome his enemies and gave him 
stamina to work hard. The aspect of Jupiter on the 9* house also 


332 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


protected his Bhagya (fortune) and helped him not to depart from 
the faith and practice of traditional culture including mastery over 
Hatha Yoga. 
Sun in the Fourth House 

Roaming about. mind disturbed, worried, Fall from power, loss 
of lands. Fall from vehicle, theft, fire, poison etc. 
Sun in the fifth House 

Well-placed Sun gives honour success, pleasure, loving nature, 
intelligence and good education. 

Afflicted brings loss through speculation and sorrow through 
love, pleasure and pride. 
Sun in the Sixth House 

Good and famous - may be politician. Successful in ventures. 

According to Satyachari Sun in the sixth house protects against 
enemies, sickness, sorrow and debt. 
Sun in the Seventh House 

In Vedic astrology Sun is a malefic planet. It causes strained 
relations with wife, mental depression, little profit in business - 
causes insomnia. 
Sun in the Eighth House 

Causes diseases like piles, sudden death due to heat, fever, 
bile or weapon, the father of the native dies. 
Sun in the Ninth House 

Well-placed Sun gives dutiful son having regard for spiritual 
values. Happiness from sons. 
Sun in the Tenth House 

If Sun is strong i.e, is exalted, is in its own sign is good for 
achieving fame, wealth, education, honours. One is brave. is 
generous, has love of music and art. Is kind and generous. Does 
service to saints. Have power and authority and high moral standard. 
Does charitable work, constructs tanks, ponds, wells and temples. 
One gets patronage of high placed men. It also shows popularity 
with the government. 

According to Western astrology he has a responsible post 
and lives with honour and dignity. It may also mean service with 
government. 


Dasha 333 


Sun in the Eleventh House 

Wealth. royalty. high job in government. wisdom and man of 
principles, loyal and devoted family and lucky in general, easy 
success. Photography, hereditary profession. woo!. industry, gold 
jewelry, banking. audit stock exchange. 

‘Very rich. good servants and dear to the king.’ Hora Sara 
Sun in the Twelfth House 

According to Maharishi Parasara Sun in the 12" for Libra 
Ascendant makes a person live for hundred years, meaning it gives 
him a long life. 

Afflicted Sun: Weak eyesight, not good for spiritual progress. 
immoral life, not successful in life, health suffers. Gives foreign 
travel- gets trouble from government. 

Dasha of Moon - 10 years 
Strong Moon: 

Moon is also a Lagna. It is therefore very important in 
horoscope. Its strength is one essential factor for prosperity. It 
should be involved in good Yogas to give much wealth, agriculture. 
auspicious ceremonies. and conveyance. favour of government 
success, vehicles. son and blessing of goddess Laxmi. A Vargottam 
Moon gives a successful life. 

Weak Moon: Mental derangement, depression, and problem 
for mother, loss of wealth and status. 

Diseases relating to Moon: diseases of lung, asthma. 
tuberculosis, diarrhea, mental derangement, digestive disorders. 
impurity of blood, death in infancy, infantile troubles, danger from 
water, cholera and other watery diseases. 

According to Maharishi Parasara if the Moon is strong. is 
in exaltation. own sign, in Kendras, Trikonas or the 1 1" house, or in 
conjunction with or aspected by some benefic. strong on Pakshabala 
like the full Moon or in conjunction w ith either o! the lords of the 
10*, 9* or 4" houses the entire Moon's period will give auspicious 
results, like wealth, prosperity. good fortune and health. He will 
have functions in the house. will have good conveyance and will be 
in the good books of the superiors. He will have the blessings of 
Goddess Lakshmi in his house. He will shine through the help of 


334 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


friends in power. He will be blessed with sons, cattle and houses. 

If Moon is debilitated or weak in Pakshabala there is loss of 
wealth in its Mahadasha. Person remains bewildered in his thoughts. 
He may suffer from mental agony .He has trouble from the maternal 
side. If a weak Moon is occupying houses 6, 8 and 12 from Lagna 
or is conjunction with a malefic, it may cause displeasure of the 
government, loss of wealth and money, mental sorrow and trouble 
to mother. With strong Pakshabala in 6,8 and 12 from Lagna Moon 
may give sometime happiness but sorrow at other times. 

Moon's placement viz. a viz. Sun is considered important: Its 
best position is in 3, 6th, 9* and 12* (Apoklima) from Sun in the 
horoscope. Next best giving average results is 2,5,8 and 11 from 
Sun (Panafara). In Kendra from Sun it is weakest in giving wealth, 
intellect, skill etc. (Brihat Parasara Hora Shastra) 

Before giving results of Dasha of Moon please check the 
Yogas like Adhi, Amala, Gajkesari, Sunapha Anapha, Chandra 
Mangal, Kemadruma, Shakata Yoga etc. Moon is involved in and 
the type of results expected in its Dasha. 

Jatak Parijat says that there may be gains from Mantras, 
Devatas and Brahmins in Moon's Dasha. Some woman will be 
cause of prosperity. Weak Moon will give gastric trouble. 

It further says that Moon in first one third part of its 
Mahadasha may give results as per its house or Bhava position. In 
the second one third part of its Dasha results are according to Rasi 
position, in the last of its Dasha the results are according to lordship 
and aspects. 

According to Jatak Bharnam Moon in friendly sign or in 3, 6, 
10*, 11,5, 7and 9 houses gives auspicious results. 

Death By Drowning: According to Bhrigu Moon in 6 and 8" 
house may cause fear of drowning. This may happen if Moon is 
afflicted. Same results are possible for position of Moon in 12* 
also. 

Moon in the first house: Fond of travel, romantic, 
imaginative and active public life. It is Karka for mind and gives 
mental strength and prosperity good writer. 


Dasha 335 


Weak Moon makes one unstable, unreliable, shifty 
wandering, moody and without aim. 
Moon in the Second house: 

Exalted or in its own house will give academic distinctions, 
wealth, happiness, rise in prosperity and honour from the rulers. 

Afflicted, dark Moon causes loss of wealth, poverty and loss 
of inherited property 
Moon in the third house 

Strong Moon: love of knowledge, success in intellectual 
pursuits, changeable disposition - looks after brothers if exalted, 
bold cheerful, fond of education, clothes and food. According to 
Parasara with strong Pakshabala sometimes gives wealth and 
happiness (but not always in uninterrupted manner). 

Weak Moon: Discord in the family for liaison with beautiful 
women. Suffers from respiratory infections. Accidents in journey. 
Moon in the fourth house 

Sensual pleasures. Gives houses, happiness from rulers, 
makes one leader. Travel to foreign country especially in movable 
Rasi. Afflicted Moon gives separation from mother. 

Moon in the fifth house 

Accomplished in fine arts including music; wise prosperous, 
reputed and blessed with obedient sons. 

In watery signs makes a person a doctor or lawyer. Three 
sons possible. 

Afflicted Moon gives melancholia, dull memory, and unstable 
mind. Afflicted by Saturn makes a person a cheat. 

Moon in the sixth house 

If full or exalted or in its own sign helps to guard diseases as 
well as other adversities. Person enjoys life. 

Weak suffering, short lived, poor appetite, inactive mentally 
or physically. Sickness and danger in the childhood This is also a 
combination for Balarishta. 

Moon in the seventh house 

Exalted and full Moon gives a beautiful and charming wife. 
Native himself is handsome and rich. Gain from sale of purchase, 
roving on land and foreign trade abroad. He is kind and always 
travelling, dominated by his wife or other women 


336 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


Moon in the eighth house 

Fear of chronic diseases and strong enemies, kings, thieves. 
In a malefic sign makes one ‘short lived. This is a combination for 
balarishta. According to Chamatkar Chintamani Moon in own sign 
or of Venus or Sagittarius or of Mercury or full suffering from 
asthma, eye diseases, chills, rheumatism and epilepsy. Other 
diseases are indigestion, aversion for food, hernia, jaundice, piles, 
diabetes, dysentery and blood poisoning and sex diseases. (This 
only happens if Moon is afflicted also). This position of Moon also 
make one charitable, jovial, intelligent, learned and of imposing 
personality. 

Moon in Cancer and Taurus gives long life. 

Important Principle: 

Birth in Day Time: If Moon is in the 8* and birth is day 
time, child is fully protected if birth is in dark half. 

Birth at night: The birth should be in bright half for life to be 
protected. 

The Sun, however, should not be within 30° of the Moon (either 
side). . 

™ Moon in the 8* house of the last day of the dark half or if it is 
combust with Sun cuts short the life of the native. 

Inheritance: If well aspected one gets inheritance from 
women or from mother's family. 

Mode of Death: by drowning, ship wreck, road accident, 
public calamity, death in a public place. Separation from family 
members due to wife. 

In a male horoscope this may show early death of mother or 
wife whereas in a female chart it indicates a number of children, a 
few of whom may not survive long. 

In Aries, Leo and Sagittarius: good inheritance, great 
wealth; a good and sharp partner. 

In Gemini, Cancer, Libra or Aquarius: Great yogi, devotee 
or Vedanti. 

In Capricorn: great sense of honour but opposition through 
enemies. 

In Pisces: quiet, retiring and easy going. 


Dasha 337 


In feminine signs, if afflicted, servants betray the person. 

Moon in the ninth house 

1. Wealthy, generous. 

2. Romantic, fond of reading, high education. 

3. ,Humanitarian, fame. Popular and lauded. Success from early 
youth. 

4. Obedient sons, wealth and noble deeds. 

5. Holy pilgrimage and good fortune. 

6. Handsome and popular. 

7. Religious and charitable learned virtuous, will construct 
temples and Dharamshalas. 

8. Foreign travel and sea voyages. 

9. Devoted to gods and father. 

10. Loved by women. 

11. ‘His enemies get puzzled and bow before him.’ Chamatkar 

Chintamani 

Moon of fiery and watery signs makes native a writer, publisher 

or printer. 

Afflicted Moon does not give good results, poor fortune, foolish 

and without character. 

12. Has a beautiful wife. 

If the Moon is afflicted, weak or debilitated person is poor, 

characterless, foolish and immoral. 
Moon in the tenth house 

According to Phala Deepika with Moon in the 10" house a 
person gets success. He does good acts, is helpful and virtuous. 

. According to Varahamihira Moon in the 10™ gives all kinds 
of success makes one charitable, rich and courageous. 

Well Placed: Gives public recognition and popularity. Is 
prominent, travels a lot, (especially in movable Rasis) is intelligent, 
noble and kind. If lord of ten is strong does noble deeds. Is devoted 
to his parents. 

Moon is a quick moving planet and is a watery planet. This 
May indicate lot of voyages and travel to foreign countries. 

Moon aspected by benefic brings success to the native 
wherever he lays his hands upon. 


338 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


Goes on pilgrimage to holy places. 

In Mahatma Gandhi's horoscope Moon is in the 10th j in its 
own sign with Rahu having 7 Bindus in the Ashtak Varga of Moon 
and making a strong Gajkesari Yoga. He was an epitome of nobility 
and had an unparalleled reputation and popularity. 

With Moon in the 10 one is much respected and held in 
popular esteem. ; 

Swami Vivekananda had Moon with Saturn in the 10", This 
is Yoga for spiritualism. Swami Savanna also had Moon in the 10*. 
Moon in the eleventh house 

Wealth, generous, noble, immense lands, and many women 
to help him. Fond of literature and art, good reputation, earns through 
lands, farming, milk, dairy, wines coffee, snack bar, pearls, fish 
Moon in the twelfth house 

Narrow-minded, does not care for feelings of others, weak 
body, eyesight weak. 

The person is emotional, has foreign travels. In fiery signs is 
lean, angry, andjealous. 

Moon in various Rasis: see the chapter on planets in Rasis. 

According to Jatak Bharnam the results of Moon are 
not good in sign Libra where it gives quarrels and loss of wealth 
(This is not agreed to by other writers), in Aquarius abdominal 
pain, dental painahd poverty. In Scorpio it gives gain in business 
and trade but may have some peculiar health problem. 

Moon is good for intellectual pursuits in sign of Mercury 
Gemini and Virgo,, good for artistic abilities in signs of Venus Taurus 
and Libra and good for education wisdom and wealth in signs of 
Jupiter. Moons give some violent tendencies in signs of Mars Aries 
and Scorpio. 

Dasha of Mars (7 years) 

Strong Mars: high status, wealth, agriculture, lands, 
conveyance, jewellery, good relations with brothers victory over 
enemies. 

According to Phala Deepika gain of money by falsehood, 
cheating and cruel actions. Enjoyment of fortune of others. 


Dasha 339 


According to Phala Deepika if Mars in an Urdhvamukha 
sign or in his sign of exaltation were posited in the 10* or 11 
house, the native will acquire kingdom in his Dasha. He will become 
a king and cause destruction of his enemies and will possess many 
vehicles and a huge army and will feed many people. 

Weak Mars: Accidents, diseases, theft, bile and blood 
infection, unchaste women, conflict with wife, epilepsy, cuts and 
wounds, arrogant, unethical and irreligious. 

Mars in a Kendra in its own signs or in sign of exaltations 
gives rise to Mahapurush Yoga (Ruchika Yoga) which is a 
combination for prosperity and high status- 

Diseases relating to Mars: injury, wounds heat trouble, 
small pox, ulcer blood pressure. 

Mars in the first house: Strong Mars gives courage, 
initiative, daring and truthfulness. 

Weak Mars spoils health, makes one rash, causes accidents 
and spoils marriage. Causes Kuja Dosha. 

Mars in the Second house 

Strong Mars gives courage wealth, good in mathematics. 

Weak Mars spoils health, makes one rash, causes accidents and 
spoils marriage. Kuja Dosha. 

Mars in the Third house 

Is either eldest or youngest in brothers. In the third, in most of 
the cases denies younger brother. Gives courage, drive initiative to 
overcome all opposition. Wealth by hard labour. 

If afflicted Mars develops suicidal tendencies. He suffers 
from bone fracture, blood poisoning, danger from accidents through 
travel and from neighbours and relations. 

Mars in the Fourth house 

No peace of mind quarrels with mother, relatives, and friends. 
Affliction to Mars gives loss through, theft, litigation and deception. 

Exalted or in its owns houses gives Mahapurush Yoga, a Yoga 
of prosperity, wealth, lands, conveyance and good status. 

Mars in the Fifth house 

Strong Mars is good for high rank and success. Has a 

voracious appetite with good digestion. 


340 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


Afflicted causes abortion and problem with children, poverty 
and wickedness. 

Mars in the Sixth house :An able administrator, politicians, 
overcomes opposition, victory in sports and winning of court cases. 
Career in army or police department. 

If afflicted accidents, boils, permanent injury, weak muscles, 
smallpox. 

Mars in the Seventh house : Causes Kuja Dosha or death 
of partner. Troublesome opponents. 

If it is strong gives rich husband or wife. In its own house or 
exaltation sign it gives rise to Mahapurush Yoga. 

Mars in the Eighth house: In women horoscope it may 
mean death of husband as eighth house i is second from 7*. It also 
constitutes Kuja Dosha. 

It indicates violent or sudden death. In watery signs causes 
death by drowning, in fiery signs death by fire or violence, in airy 
signs death by mental affliction or air accidents . 

Well-placed Mars gives success in Hatha Yoga and makes 
one a politician. 

Mars in the Ninth house :. Mars in its own house makes a 
Raj Yoga - gets royal favour, wealth and fame. 

Mars otherwise is a malefic planet. It destroys fortune, is not 
good for father, is irreligious, trouble from poison and fire. Does 
not believe in religion. 

Mars in the Tenth house : (In the 10™house Mars gets 
directional strength.) 

Strong: Commander of an army. In Cancer and Leo Lagna it 
is Raj Yoga Karka. High status, prince. Under influence of Jupiter 
gets untold wealth. Land conveyance and prosperity also in Pisces 
Lagna . 

Weak Mars: Accident, fire, weapons. Ifin enemy sign father 
dies. Extravagant vicious,. 

Mars - Moon combination, if afflicted makes a person cold 
and selfish. Impulsive, mind not rational dominated by forceful side 
of nature. Merciless wicked and full of courage. 


Dasha 341 


Mars in the Eleventh house 

Influential, great status, landed properties, forceful speaker, 
clever, rich and crafty. Drugs, chemicals, lands, timber, minerals, 
metals, sports good. 

Mars in the Twelfth house: Selfish, loss of wife, fiery 
disease theft Desire to deprive others of their wealth. Accidents 
and heavy expenditure. 

Dasha of Mercury (17 Years) 

Strong Mercury: high achievements in education, business, 
wealth, righteousness and virtue. 

According to Phala Deepika meeting with friends, happiness 
and admiration from learned people are the results. 

Weak Mercury: mental illness, nervousness, skin problems, 
disruption in education, foreign travel, loss of wealth, urinary problem 
theft, fire, fright of the government. If Mercury is in the 6*, 8th or 
the 12" house, income, passion and wealth suffers. Diseases like 
jaundice and rheumatism may take hold. 

Beginning of Dasha gives wealth and comforts property and 
children. Middle part of the Dasha brings recognition from the king 
and last part of Dasha brings in miseries and obstacles. 

In a Kendra or Trikona in its own sign or sign of exaltation 
gives rise to Mahapurush Yoga known as Bhadra Yoga, a 
combination of prosperity. In eighth house it gives fame. 

Strong: high achievements in education, business, wealth, 
righteousness and virtue. 

Weak Mercury: mental illness, nervousness, skin problems, 
disruption in education, foreign travel, loss of wealth, urinary problem 
theft, fire, fright of the government. 

Diseases relating to Mercury: nervous disorders, diseases of 
brain, epilepsy, skin diseases, anemia. 

Mercury in the first house 

Strong Mercury makes one intelligent gives new knowledge, 
honours in sports, profit in business. Humorous, quick-witted. With 
Venus gives talent for music. 

Weak Mercury: nervous especially with Rahu, mental 
derangement, and skin trouble. 


342 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


Mercury in the second house 

Strong Mercury intelligent, honours in sports, profit in business 
and wealth. Humorous, quick-witted and flair for writing. With 
benefics it gives good education With Venus gives talent for music. 

Weak Mercury makes one nervous especially with Rahu, 
shifty, gives mental derangement, and gives skin trouble. Mercury 
with evil aspects, with malefics or in their signs or in depression 
education is denied. 

Mercury in the third house: If this Mercury is strong good 
education, sharp memory, writing, printing or publishing is gainful. 
Fond of learning, cheerful, alert and watchful. 

Afflicted Mercury: Meek, thoughtless, miserable, gloomy 
and moody. Worries and frets. 

Mercury in the fourth house: Travel to other countries, 
witty, good education, conveyance, music, and fine arts. 

Mercury in the fifth house: Well educated, author, 
intelligent. Writer, poet or dramatist. Affliction is not good for children 
ill educated, cruel and quarrelsome 

Mercury in the sixth house :Strong Mercury gives sharp 
intellect, but quarrelsome and popular, gets divine knowledge from 
the holy men. Afflicted Mercury educational career suffers, dull 
intellect, nervous, skin diseases, indigestion, diseases of generative 
system. 

Mercury in the seventh house : Mercury is a eunuch 
planet as such impotent. Its association in any form with the 7* 
house or 7* lord disturbs marriage. However, Mercury as a benefic 
planet and as a Karka for intelligence is good to be in a Kendra. 
The wife is beautiful. 

Mercury in the eighth house : Mercury gives wealth and 
fame; it is part of Adhi Yoga. It gives longevity, good reputation and 
wealth. He is famous for his qualities, liked by women, is rich. Has 
land and property. End is peaceful. 

Afflicted ungrateful, vicious, sexy, liar and ailing. In female 
chart worries due to financial difficulties with husband and partners. 


Dasha 343 


Mercury in the ninth house : Very intelligent and rich. 
Philosopher - scientific bend of mind. Science, inventions, 
discoveries, music, popular. Polite, God fearing and fortunate. 
Ascetic, noble and meditative like Buddha. 

Mercury in the tenth house: If it is exalted or in its own 
house in a Kendra it makes Mahapurush Yoga, a combination for 
prosperity. This Yoga is known as Bhadra Yoga. According to 
Phala Deepika, "person will be long lived. He will be intelligent, 
will be clean (clean in mind means pure thoughts and body), praised 
by learned men, very rich and prosperous and eloquent in speech." 

Mercury in the eleventh house: Intelligent, master of many 
techniques, learned in sciences, keen sharp intellect. Rich, wealthy, 
truthful, happy. Mathematics, astrology, scientist . 

Mercury in the twelfth house : Foreign travel, break in 
education. 

Dasha of Jupiter (16 Years) 

Strong Jupiter: Benefits from government, happiness, wealth, 
children, education, health, young wife etc. 

Weak Jupiter: change of residence, loss of wealth and 
children, mental tension. Diseases relating to Jupiter: Liver, cancer, 
jaundice, ear, phlegmatic diseases. 

Jupiter in the First house :Strong: Cheerful, hopeful 
generous just, social, easy going and sympathetic, with magnetic 
personality. It washes away hundreds of sins. Jupiter here has 
directional strength. 

Ill placed and weak Jupiter leads to exaggeration, 
extravagance, high living and bragging. In the first house it makes 
one selfindulgent, fond of food and corpulent. 

Jupiter in the Second house : Skill for poetic composition. 
With short and sweet speech, rich grateful handsome and intelligent 
-Afflicted Jupiter spoils wealth and married life. 

Jupiter in the Third house: If Jupiter is in its own or 
friendly sign or exalted native is wealthy. He is poor and miser in 
other signs. Good for profession of teachers or lecturers. 


344 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


Jupiter in the Fourth house: Exalted or in its own house 
gives rise to Mahapurush Yoga known as Hansa Yoga which makes 
one handsome, wealthy and prosperous. Learned, happy, favour of 
ruling classes, religious inclined fortunate, respected, peaceful 
domestic life. Affliction is not good for mother, education or property. 

Jupiter in the Fifth house: :Intelligent, god-fearing, rich, 
well educated. During the Dasha of well placed Jupiter in the 5* 
house one is blessed with children, high intelligence, wealth, 
happiness, high rank and great literary achievements. If Jupiter is 
afflicted then relations with children are not good and education 
suffers. 

Jupiter in the Sixth house: Strong Jupiter is good for career 
as aspects 10th house. Overcomes his enemies and has wealth. 
Great healer extends healing hand to community. 

Weak Jupiter leads to diabetes, diseases of liver, blood and 
digestive system. As Karka for wealth and children, their 
signification suffers. Interest in wine, women and games of chance 
and gambling. 

Jupiter in the Seventh house :High status in life. Very 
sensual- great pleasure from women. Handsome culture, large 
hearted eloquent, poet and wise. Rich and generous. Affectionate, 
charming noble wife blessed with sons. Fond of literature. Note: 
normally Jupiter in the seventh protects marriage. 

Jupiter in the Eighth house: 

Asura Yoga: Whenever Jupiter or for that matter Venus or 
both occupy the eight, the Yoga is known as Asura Yoga. Result: 
One becomes mean, talebearer, will spoil other's work, and will be 
self-interested. He will be head - strong, do vile acts and will become 
miserable. Yoga is more malefic when planet is debilitated or 
retrograde. 

Jupiter in the Ninth house: With benefic planets very 
wealthy and has much immovable property. Religious, charitable, 
intellectual. Good relations with father. 


Dasha 345 


Jupiter in the Tenth house 

Lives in a magnificent abode adorned with banners. A celebrity, 
religious, in company with Brahmins who recite Veda Mantras day 
and night. Glorious, recognized by the ruler, of noble conduct and 
renowned, generous and fair. The native is with State Emblem, 
best of conveyances, friends, sons, women and wealth. Glorious 
and conqueror. Successful from the beginning, righteous, dutiful, 
wealth through father if with Sun, Virtuous, lofty and ideal, religious, 
humble, performs good deeds, skilled, truth loving, once he starts a 
job finishes it. An intellectual giant. Name, fame and favours of 
superiors, dignified status. Noble birth, gain through superiors. 
Secure and important positions in life. 
Jupiter gives lot of wealth ifin Lagna, fourth or tenth house. 
Jupiter in the Eleventh house 


Gains from various sources, immensely rich, head of a clan. 
According to Hora Sara one is intelligent, noble, wealthy, has riches, 
many friends and is fond of music. 

From eleventh house Jupiter aspects the 5* house, house of 
creative intelligence and authorship. 

According to K.N. Rao in the horoscope of George Bernard 
Shaw Jupiter is in the 11™house in its own Rasi Pisces. During the 
Dasha of Jupiter (1896 to 1912), he was at his creative best. In this 
period he wrote as many as 22 plays. The best amongst these 
were "Caesar and Cleopatra", Pygmalion and Man and Superman. 


George Bernard Shaw ; 26 July 1856: 12 :40 AM Dublin 


346 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


Jupiter in the Twelfth house 

Not religious, sexually inclined, later in life spiritual. Jupiter in 
12 is not good for children, but good for Moksha. 

If Jupiter is in its own house or exalted in the 12th house it is 
good for spirituality and attainment of highest form of bliss 

Dasha of Venus (20 Years). 

Strong Venus: wealth, ornaments, marriage, vehicles, job, 
recognition, house, welfare of children. Commandership of army, 
ministership, religious ceremonies, sumptuous food, status. If it is 
lord of nine or ten and posited in Lagna it gives rise to immense 
pleasures, achieves high status, will construct temples and tanks. 
Will eat sumptuous food will have status, wealth, assets wife and 
children. 

According to Phala Deepika, sports, vehicles, precious stones, 
company of young women, intellectual pursuits, and travel by sea 
and honour by the king are the results. 

Weak Venus (in 6, 8 or 12, debilitated or in the sign of 12” 
lord) becomes Marka, diseases of sex, loss of business, wife, 
distress from women folk. 

Diseases relating to Venus: urinary diseases, anemia, loss of 
semen. Sexual disease like venereal diseases Aids, etc. 

Venus in the First house: music, art, dancing, and drama. 
Exalted or in its own house gives result of Mahapurush Yoga. Weak 
and afflicted, makes one pervert, unclean and disorderly. 

Venus in the Second house : Amiable nature and has a 
cheering speech. Wealth, food and music. Good social life. Affliction 
destroys married life and wealth. 

Venus in the Third house : Highly developed aesthetic 
sense and taste. Fond of fine arts, literature and music. Mature, 
optimistic and peaceful mind. Gain through travel and journey taken 
for pleasure. Affliction is unfavourable for marriage Causes delays 
and. strife 

Venus in the Fourth house: Venus becomes Digbally here 
.Gives taste for music, friends, houses, art, domestic peace and 
happiness. Great asset for artists and writers. 

Venus in Fifth house : Author, well educated, artist, rich. 
Affliction causes sex problems. 


Dasha 347 


Venus in the Sixth house Excessive expenditure leading to 
poverty and debt - much mental torture. Has no enemies. Is wealthy 
according to Bhavarth Ratnakar. Great success if in Taurus or 
Libra. Always cheerful if exalted 

If afflicted deficiency in married life, corrupted by young 
women. Kidney and ovarian trouble. 

Venus in the Seventh house : Comely and true wife gives 
birth to noble sons. Gets maximum pleasure from his wife. Sex 
with lovely women. Eminent artist. Plenty of fans. Happiness, social 
and financial gains from marriage. Early marriage, attractive. 
Success in public relations. Successful partnership. 

If afflicted hinders or delays marriage. (As Karka for marriage 
some consider Venus is not good here. However this is not true in 
practice) 

Venus in the Eighth house: As a natural benefic its position 
in eighth is not good, excepting a benefic in the house of longevity 
gives a long life and as a benefic its aspect on 2"’ house of wealth 
is good. In 8* house it also forms part of Adhi Yoga. But as Karka 
for marriage its relegation to eight is not beneficial for a happy 
married life. Venus afflicted by Saturn may cause impotency and 
unclean habits. Profit after hard effort, gain and loss by turn and 
delayed victory. 


Venus in the Ninth house This is a good position for health, 
wealth and happiness. One leads a happy life. Is religious, fond of 
music and has good education. ~ 

Venus in the Tenth house :Wealthy liked by women. Rich, 
religious, fortunate. 

Pleasure, plenty of sex, wise, charming attractive. Has 
conveyances and jewellery, Performs many Yajnas. Senior officer 
in government. Love for art and music. Blessed with parents and 
happy home, honours. Afflicted: Unnatural relations with women 
loss of wealth and fame. 

Venus in the Eleventh house: Wealthy, fond of travel, 
likes company of opposite sex. Popular and friendly. Theatre, dance, 
music many friends, women, hoteliering, cosmetics, show business. 


348 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


Venus in the Twelfth house 

According to Jatak Bharnam, the person is lustful, does evil 
deeds, is a liar and is hard hearted. Bed pleasures, wealth, foreign 
travel. According to Phala Deepika If Venus be in the sign of 
exaltation or in his own sign and be posited in 10,11 or 12, and 
eclipsed and free from influence of malefics, he will gain much 
wealth, he will be full of glory and splendour will be widely praised 
and enjoy all comforts. 

Weak Venus (in 6,8 or 12, debilitated or in the sign of 12* 
lord) becomes Marka, diseases of sex, loss of business, wife. 
Distress from women folk, loss in business agony to wife and 
children. 

Dasha of Saturn (19 Years) 

Strong Saturn: wealth, status, business, education, and 
government job. According to Phala Deepika wealth as a result of 
war or disturbance, servants, old women. 

Weak Saturn: Agony, fear, theft, and loss of wealth, diseases, 
grief of wife and children, imprisonment. 

Diseases relating to Saturn: paralysis, stomach ache, 
rheumatism, dyspepsia. Bodily deformity., cerebral disorders. 
Chronic diseases. 

Saturn in the First house 

Strong: Long-lived, rich, happy, has lands. Exalted or in its 
own house gives rise to Sassa Yoga. 

Weak: Melancholy, slow, poor, health not good. Late marriage 
and family life suffers. 

Saturn in the Second house 

According to Chamatkar Chintamani native is poor and is 
separated from his family. He has a deformed face. 

Saturn in Third house: Immediate younger to him might be 
a sister. 

Saturn if strong denotes responsibility, tact, diplomacy, power 
to contemplate, concentration, interest in philosophy, studies and 
writing. Gain to brothers. Afflicted by malefics discord between 
brothers. Never Satisfied, unkind and wicked. Many obstacles and 
difficulties before any success is achieved. 


Dasha 349 


Saturn in the Fourth house: In its own house or when 
exalted gives rise to Mahapurusha Yoga. 

Otherwise this position is not good for mother. It causes 
unhappiness and leads to a secluded life. There are obstacles in 
obtaining property. Peace of mind is disturbed. 

Saturn in the Fifth house: Well placed, hard working, 
sincere, good education, god fearing, minister and a diplomat 

Afflicted dull intellect, problem with children. Sins of past 
world haunt him. 

Saturn in Sixth house: With Saturn in the sixth house the 
native is not afraid of enemy, the king or the thief. A matchless 
warrior. Blessed with cattle wealth. Hard worker, able to complete 
difficult assignments. 

Afflicted, accidents, diseases of right eye, quarrelsome, 
arthritis, back pain. 

Saturn in the Seventh house: Saturn in Lagna or 7* house 
in Papkartari Yoga - unconventional or under compulsion marriage. 
‘Saturn, Ketu, and Venus give inter religious marriages. Denies 
charming partner. 

Is debauchee, surrounded with wicked friends, wealth through 
fraud and dishonest means, if afflicted. 

When strong makes Mahapurusha Yoga is able, faithful and 
has helpful friends. Much wealth. Ailing partner, neither strength 
nor wealth. Saturn gets directional strength in the 7* house. 

Saturn in the Eighth house: As a natural malefic it is not 
good in the 8th house. Its aspect on tenth is not good for profession, 
on 2" is not good for wealth and on 5* is not good for progeny. But 
as Ayush Karka Saturn in the 8* gives long life. 

Suffers great loss of wealth, sudden separation from own 
people. Perverse mind, lazy, glutton and miser. Few children, weak 
eyesight, loss of wealth and health. 

Lives in a foreign land. 

Saturn in the Ninth house: One has unorthodox views, 
does not believe in god, religion etc, Is not lucky. This position is 
not good for father. 


350 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


Saturn in the Tenth house: Well Placed: Royal status, 
happy, noble, minister, politic, courteous. A senior district officer. 
Interested in agriculture. Maintains status in foreign land. Fearless 
and proud. Political leader-Neta In Pisces sign takes to Sanyas. 
In own house or exalted gives Raj Yoga. In unfavourable sign 
adversity after success. Financial setbacks for businessmen, 
dishonour defeat. 


ILL Placed: Death of parents in childhood. A hard life, vile, 
poor, fickle and poor. Setback, imprisonment. Demotion, suspension, 
termination of appointment ,imprisonment, chronic diseases etc. 
Father and son cannot progress under same roof. 

Saturn in the Eleventh house: Has many men and women 
working under him. Politics - earnings through government. Fond 
of enjoyment, few friends, disrupted education. Land and 
immovable property. Industries, brick kiln, printing press, hardware, 
oil refineries. 

Saturn in the Twelfth house: Pessimist, morose, lonely, ugly, 
dulls, financial losses, sinful. Denied sexual pleasures. 

According to Jatak Bharnam, the person is poor, unhappy, 
miser and is lethargic. 

Dasha of Rahu (18 years) 

Strong Rahu: wealth, job. New house, marriage, royal 
recognition in foreign land, jewellery, travels abroad. Rahu represent 
foreign and Muslim or Christian. During his Dasha contacts with 
foreigners are established. 

According to Phala Deepika if associated with benefics or in 
a good house will enjoy splendour like aking. Fame will spread far 
and wide, gets wealth, success and happiness Rahu is good in Virgo, 
Scorpio and Pisces and will give in his Dasha honour and happiness, 
lordship of lands conveyance and servants. All these are liable to 
be lost at the conclusion of the Dasha. It is exalted in Taurus 
,according to Parasara but in Gemini according to other sources. 
Since both are benefic signs and Rahu is a shadowy planet it is 
good both in Taurus and Gemini. 

If Rahu and Ketu are posited in Kendra or Trikona be 


Dasha 351 


connected with lord of Kendra or Trikona they become Yoga Karka 
and give good results. If Rahu and Ketu are well placed in the 
Lagna, 5 or 9 they give the effect of Yoga Karka planet in Antra 
Dasha of Yoga Karka irrespective of the fact whether they are 
connected or not with a Yoga Karka planet ~ 

Weak Rahu: (Rahu in 8 or 12 is bad, according to 
Parasara), shifting of place, mental agony, death of wife, 
disappointments, irritation, debts, theft, diseases. Period is especially 
bad if malefics or Marka planets afflict it. Disappointments, injury 
accidents, debts, theft, cheating, heavy expenditure, diseases 
ailments and betrayal. 

Diseases relating to Rahu: Hysteria, epidemic, epilepsy, cancer, 
dropsy, eczema, skin diseases like leucoderma, and leprosy. 
Diseases difficult to diagnose. Sudden attack of diseases, poison 
and serpent bite. 

Rahu in the first house 

In signs Aries, Leo, Sagittarius: 

Person is stubborn, proud, wealthy, morally loose and selfish. 
In Leo, Sun is ruler, evil intensified? Ambition is seldom fulfilled. 
Rahu / Saturn Dasha reverses fortune and causes official 
displeasure. Gives rise to financial losses. 

In signs Cancer, Virgo, Capricorn: Is thief, robber and has 
many enemies. 

Taurus, Scorpio ‘ 

Unfaithful to wife, unreliable in money matters. Acts as a 
villain in drama and stage. 

Rahu preferably in Aries, Taurus and Virgo Ascendant - 
person is tall. During Dasha of Rahu one should be careful about 
one's wife/ partners. 

Mental Affliction 

Aspect of Rahu on Moon and Mercury are not desirable. 
Leads to unsound mind, hysteria and swooning. 

Rahu in the Second house 

Good in Meena or Pisces sign. Short tempered, pure mind. 
Domestic life not happy. 

'Malefics in the 2" house destroy wealth. “If there is Rahu 


352 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


aspected by malefic the tendency to cheat and make money in 
undesirable way becomes visible and is known to all." KN. Rao 
Rahu in the Third house 

Praised as gives stamina and self-control. Aspected by 
malefics destroys siblings. Is eldest or youngest in the family or 
among brothers or sisters. 

It gives courage and is very good for extra curricular activities 
and sports. 

Rahu in Fourth house 

"Behaves like a Kendra lord from very good to ordinary 
position if other promises exit." K.N. Rao 

Bad- unfortunate, not happy (may be no children and no 
harmony in marriage). 

Rahu in 4th or with lord of four does not give happiness. 
Gives disappointment, and tragedy, separated from family. Frequent 
quarrels in family. Health poor, not fortunate for mother, property 
and land. Two mothers and two marriages. Pessimist, failure, 
bankruptcy and sins of several generations. 

1. In Gemini, or Aquarius great wealth, not happy. 

2. In Cancer, Virgo highly dignified. Honourable 

3. If 4th house is Aries, Taurus, Cancer or Virgo results are good. 
4. With benefic association gives long life to mother. 

Foreign travel 

The native may live in a house far from home. With another 
malefic may live in another foreign country. (See book Planets and 
Foreign Travel by the author). 

Rahu in the Fifth house 

It is bad for children. Good for development of intuition. 
Rahu in Sixth house 

Rahu with 6* lord gives injury by animals - means leads to 
accidents. Saturn- Rahu in 6* is adangerous combination that gives 
incurable diseases. 

According to K.N. Rao Rahu in the 6* is always good for 
politicians. Overcomes opposition. 

Rahu in the Seventh house 

Not a good position, company of persons of loose morals. 

Life with wife miserable. Gastric troubles and rheumatism. 


353 


In the Eighth house 

Undiagnosable disease having sexual connotations. Can be 
good for finances. 

Is forsaken by the noble for no reason. Gain of wealth from 
government, sometimes wealth is lost. Suffers from gastritis, lives 
in foreign land and is short tempered. 

Rahu of masculine signs is not favourable. Troubles, strife, 
want, money through unfair means, imprisonment and painful end 
in unconscious state. Rahu of feminine signs may sometime give 
rich partner. 

Rahu in the Ninth house 

If well placed person is a scholar, virtuous, impressive in 
speech, cultured and humane. Devoted to Gods and sacred places, 
Grateful. 

Shows faith in other religions than his own. Loss of wealth. 
Want of truth, conduct, luck and wisdom. Much travelling. Higher 
studies- foreign languages. 

Rahu in the Tenth house 

Produces Raj Yoga in its Mahadasha. (Rahu aspected by 
malefics can give dubious results). Conjunction with Sun gives 
financial trouble. 

Is honourable, truthful and honest. Gives missionary 
tendencies. 

A debilitated 9" or 10 lord under Rahu/ Ketu axis gives 
enigmatic character from deceptive person to a cheat. Strands of 
nobility are missing. 

Rahu in the Eleventh house: 

Is good position especially for finances and gives plenty of 
money. 

Person is handsome and kind hearted. Lives in a foreign 
country. 

Rahu in the Twelfth house 

1 This is a good combination for travel and settlement abroad. 

2 According to Chamatkar Chintamani, ‘pain in chest and heart 
- wound on feet- affliction of eye and defect in nails. 

3 If afflicted loses money and property, cheat, quarrelsome, 


354 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


separation from family, debauchery, trouble and punishment, 
two marriages (especially in masculine signs). Ugly and shabby. 
Ill spent money. 

4 — If Rahn is exalted, is in its own sign or in signs Gemini, Sagittarius 
or Pisces it is very favourable. Gives success in occultism, 
gains through secret methods and unexpected sources. 

5 Rahu in feminine signs is considered good by Chamatkar 
Chintamani. According to this book it gives good children and 
a happy married life. 

6 Jourmey to North for living. Fortune abroad. Industrious and 
glorious, generous, lofty ideals, social and fond of literature. 
Much income and expenditure. 

7 Very handsome and prosperous. 

8 Interest in Vedanta and asceticism. 

Dasha of Ketu (7 Years) 

According to Chamatkar Chintamani Ketu in Aries, 
Gemini or Virgo or sign of a benefic is considered good. It is also 
good in its sign of exaltation Scorpio (Sagittarius, according to some). 

Ketu is significator for Moksha, intrigue, pride, miserliness, 
asceticism, assassination, secret intrigues, backbiting and vicious 
tendencies. 

Strong Ketu: represents Moksha, spiritualism, and studies. 
Ketu in angles, Trikonas or | 1" house is considered good if it is not 
afflicted. 

In benefic signs and Vargas, favours from kings, pleasure 
from children and vehicles, happiness from travelling both in the 
native land as well as in foreign countries. Ketu in 3, 6 or we 
house gives happiness in its Dasha and gains from the government. 

Weak Ketu: Conjunct with or aspected by malefic planets 
while posited in 2"*, 8* or 12* house brings discord with relatives 
and causes loss of property. 

It also causes diseases similar to those of Rahu and Mars. In 
addition causes heart attack, operations and poison in the body. 

Normally Ketu gives both good and bad results in angles and 
trines. One may rise very high as also meet with violent death. 
Ketu in the evil houses like 3, 6, 8, 12 makes one miserable. Results 


Dasha 355 


in Gemini are evil. Inflicts disease on the part of the body ruled by 
the sign in which it is posited. 

One should be careful in giving predictions relating to Ketu in 
the 12™house where it may lead one to Moksha. 

Ketu in 1st House 

If Ketu is afflicted it gives trouble through relatives. Disturbed 
mind, wife suffers from stomach problems etc. Sad, selfish and 
ugly - dismissed from service - afraid of sex. May give brain 
disease. Travel to foreign country, fall from conveyance and danger 
from poison. 

Ketu in Capricorn or Aquarius gives property and noble sons. 

Ketu is Kaivalyakarka, gives fervor and devotion to God 
especially when it is with Moon in Cancer Lagna. 

Ketu in 2nd House 

May give diseases of right eye, blindness ,cancer of eye, 
defective vision. 

Ketu in 3rd House 

Decapitation in Leo if Ketu and Mars are there. Third house 
controls mind. Ketu here may cause violent crimes. Ketu in 3rd 
with Saturn makes one cruel, brutal, hard hearted ill tempered and 
criminal. 

Causes chronic and mysterious diseases. As Ketu is debilitated 
in sign Gemini it may cause chronic asthma, phthisis or cancer in 
the lungs. 

According to some Bengali astrologers Ketu has aspects in 
3, 7, 11 in reverse. Usually it gives both good and bad results in 
angles and trines. One rises very high as also meets violent death. 
Ketu in the evil houses like 3, 6, 8, 12 gives much miseries. Inflicts 
disease on the part of the body ruled by the sign in which it is 
posited. 

If debilitated or afflicted gives troubled mind and hates his 
brothers and neighbours. Has many extra marital relations - loss 
of friends - pain in arm, unprofitable journey. 

Conquers his enemies - gets prosperity, fame and much 
happiness if Ketu is in its own sign or exalted. One is brave and 
generous. 


356 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


Ketu in 4th House 

Loss of support and benefit of mother. Loss of inherited wealth 
through friends. Never at home. Quarrels with parents. Loss of 
land and property. 

Favourable results if Ketu is in its own sign, Pisces or sign of 
exaltation Sagittarius Great benefit and support through parents if 
in Scorpio or Leo. In exaltation sign it gives Raj Yoga. 

Ketu in 5th House 

Brother suffers from arm injury- little learning - strife 
with son - injury due to fall from high places. Dispute with 
brothers. Native is crafty, jealous, weak, timid and impatient. 
More daughters than sons. Stomach complaint, gain through 
fraud. 

If in Leo, Sagittarius Pisces or Scorpio indicates Raj Yoga. 
Impressive sermonizing - inclination for holy pilgrimage or foreign 
travel. Fear and danger from water. 

Ketu in the 6th House 

Disappointment through maternal uncle. Free from 
sickness, worry. Has wealth - successful in debates - loves his 
relatives. Gives honour and fame. 

Affliction causes diseases and gives unfaithful servants. 
Ketu in 7th House 

Much trouble and danger from travel. Loss of wealth - fear 
from enemies or theft- adulterous. Ailment of intestines - seminal 
trouble. 

Good results if exalted. 

Ketu in 8th House: 

Death of father, cough, asthma, dysentery, consumption piles 
- fear of fall from horseback (vehicular accidents in modern 
terminology) - difficulty in returning loan. Chronic and mysterious 
diseases. Conjunction of Ketu, Saturn and Jupiter in the 8th gives 
cancer of the uterus. 

Gain of wealth if Ketu is in Scorpio, Virgo, Aries Gemini or 
Taurus. 


Dasha 357 


An eye on wealth and women of others. Long living and 
wealthy if aspected by benefics. 
Ketu in 9th House 

Danger to father- destruction of meritorious acts - short 
tempered, convert. Shakes faith, voyages bring misery, punishment 
in foreign land. If well placed fortune through foreigners, asceticism. 
May be a king or a Minister. Has fame, glory, wisdom, generosity, 
kindness and devotion. Has higher education in computers or foreign 
languages. 

Ketu in 10th House 

Unfortunate and miserable -trouble for or through father - 
danger of fall from conveyance. 

Of Scorpio, Taurus, Virgo or Aries kills enemies. Intelligent, 
strong, wise, living in foreign lands - much travelling. Great honours 
and recognition. 

Ketu in 11th House 

Success and gains from all sources. Very fortunate, learned, 
handsome, well dressed and glorious. Success and gain in business. 
God's bounty and lives in plenty. 

Ketu in 12th House 


Wastes wealth on misdeeds. Vicious, poor and miser. Much 
travelling generous, extravagant, indebted. Rich like a king, poet 
learned. With Jupiter exalted skilled, ascetic. With Venus or Moon 
adulterous. Eloquent in debate. Mentally upset, loss of property 
and immoral. Secret enemies, imprisonment. 


"Mercury - Ketu make one unpredictable. It gives one a 
criminal bent of mind. Such persons can cheat impersonate, forge 
documents, commit criminal breach of trust, poison others to death. 
Can commit any crime under mask. His actions are always cold 
blooded." K.N. Rao 


Operation of Dasha Scheme 
Lata Mangeshkar: 
A versatile singer who has sung more than 50,000 songs in 20 
Indian languages was decorated by the highest award of Bharat 
Ratna, highest civil award by the government of India in 2001. 


358 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


Her melodious voice has enthralled millions. At the times of 
India's humiliating defeat in war against China she sang the famous 
song "Aye mere watan ke logo, zara ankh me in bhar lo pani" 
which brought tears in the eyes of Pt. Nehru. Late Prime Minister 
Zulifquar Ali Bhutto once remarked that he would gladly exchange 
Lata for Kashmir. 


Lula Mangeshkar 


28-09-1929 
22044 Indore 


‘Main Features of the horoscope : 

1. This horoscope has Saraswati Yoga and Mahabhagya Yoga. 
2. The lord of speech, second house, Mercury is exalted in the 
auspicious 5* house of Purva Punya, of high intelligence and 
is with lord of success Sun. Mercury is good for art and music 
in the 5* house and Sun, according to Jatak Bharnam in Virgo 
gives education and knowledge. 

Venus in the 4* house gives Music. It is also digbali. 

4, Lord of artistic ability third house is Moon which is strong in its 
own house. According to Jatak Bharnam Moon in Cancer is 
good for art and gives landed property. 

5. Jupiter is in Venus and is digbally. According to Varahamihira 
Jupiter in Taurus gives skill in music and dance. 

6. The second lord exalted vargottam Mercury is in the 5" with 
4* lord Sun aspecting the 11" house. Yogakarka lord of 9 and 
10 Saturn also aspects second lord Mercury. This is major 
Dhana Yoga or yoga of wealth according to Parashara. 


bea 


Operative Dashas 

Dashas ending on : 

Mercury - 24.2.1946 : Ketu *:23.2.1953  : Venus - 23.2.1973 
Sun -23.2. 1979 :Moon- 23.2.1989 : Mars « 23,2.1996 
Rahu — - 23.2.2014 


Dasha 359 


At birth she got the dasha of exalted Mercury which gave her a 
good start in life. According to Parashara dasha of Mercury brings 
happiness, wealth, prosperity, education good health and happiness. 
Her father Deena Nath was a fairly prosperous actor singer owning 
a drama troupe which provided her earlier guidance in music 
Mercury - Rahu and Mercury - Jupiter : Father's company 
had to be closed down due to financial problems and ill health of 
father. Rahu is in the 8* from Mercury and is aspected by Mars. 
Family had to move to Pune. Rahu is in the 12" house 

Mercury Saturn - Father's death in 1942. Mercury is with Sun , 
the karka for father who is 12" lord from Mercury. Sun is also 8" 
lord from 9* house and is aspected by Saturn. Saturn is also 9* lord 
and is placed in the 8* house. Jupiter is functional malefic lord of 8 
and 11 and is placed in the 9* house from Sun and Mercury. 

In 1945 in Mercury- Saturn she moved to Mumbai. Saturn is in the 
8* house causing sudden changes. 

Ketu - Moon : Lata sang for 'Majboor' under music direction of 
Ghulam Haider and became instant hit and a household word. Moon 
is in its own house of artistic ability and is in 10* from Ketu. Moon 
is also karka for Music. Ketu is in the 6* with another malefic 
Mars which is good combination for winning competitions. Mars is 
vargottam. 

Venus Mahadasha (1953 to 1973) : She reached the peak of her 
glory. Awards after awards came her way. She became the 
unrivalled musical queen with melodius voice of her times. Venus is 
karka for music, is digbally and is 4" house a Kendra known to give 
taste for art and music. Venus is also lagna and 6" lord. It is blemished 
as in its house there are two malefics Mars and Ketu. This made 
her much conceited woman who resented popularity of other young 
artist and discouraged talent around her. 

Sun Mahadasha (1973 to 1979) Sun is in the 5th house 
(a trikona) as lord of fourth house with 2" and 5* lord Mercury- 
forming a great Rajyoga. Mercury is vargottam exalted 5* lord 
aspected by Jupiter. She had to becomes world fame artist and 
achieve unrivalled fame and money. 5th house is house of 
entertainment also. She had no equal in music and her songs were 
on the lips of every one. An Urdu poet has paid tribute to her voice 
by saying " Teri awaz ke shabnam se dhul jate hain gham sare." 


360 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


Mars (1979 to 1986 ): Mars is in the 6 with Ketu She continued 
to get fame after fame. Victory came to her naturally. Ketu the 
karka for Moksha made her sing devotional songs. She had started 
turning spiritualist. 

Rahu (1986 to 2004) : In Rahu Saturn she got the award of 
Bharat Ratna. Rahu is in the 10* from Moon aspected by its sign 
lord Mars. Satur is yogkarka planet lord of 9* and 10* placed in 
8" where it aspects the 10* house from lagna. It is well placed in 
kodanda rasi Sagittarius. Its dispositor Jupiter is in lagna having 
directional strength. 

Jupiter Mahadasha - has given her spiritual values. She visits 
temples and sings songs of bhakti and divine love. 


Mother Teresa: 

She was one of the greatest personalities of the twentieth 
century. She founded Missionaries of Charity and won the Nobel 
Peace Prize in 1979 for her humanitarian work. For over forty 
years she tended to the poor, sick, orphaned and dying. In the true 
Christian tradition she devoted her life for the welfare of the poor 
and down trodden. 


As the Missionaries of Charity grew under Mother Teresa's 
leadership, they expanded their activities to other countries. By 1970 
she had become internationally famed as an humanitarian and 
advocate for the poor and helpless. Following her death she was 
beatified by Pope Paul II and given the title of ‘Blessed Teresa of 
Calcutta’. 


Mother Teresa 
26.8,1910 


14:25 Skopje 
Yugoslavia 


Lagna 26° 46', Sun 9° 48’, Moon 26° 00, Mars 20° 24', Mercury 6° 
35', Jupiter 21° 12', Venus 10° 17’, Saturn 13° 56’, Rah 00° 10’. 


Dasha 361 


Vimshottari Dasha : Ending 


Venus 18.8.1911 
Sun 16.8.1917 
Moon 16.8.1927 
Mars 16.8.1934 
Rahu 16.8 1952 
Jupiter 16.8.1968 
Saturn 16.8.1987 
Mercury 16.8.2004 


Main Features of the Horoscope 
1. This horoscope has two yogas of renunciation which are specially 


2: 


3 


applicable to women. A malefic in the 7* house ( Rahu in this 
case) and any planet in the 9* house is a special sanyas yoga 


for women as mentioned by Parashara. 


The presence of Moon with Saturn in Aries,house of Mars is a 
well known combination for sanyas. 

She was the builder of institutions and is associated with Nirmal 
Hriday (home of the dying) and Missionaries of Charity with 
570 Missions all over the world.The well known combination 
for founding such world famous institutions is the combination 
of lagna and the tenth house as given in Laghu Parashari. 
Here lagna lord Mars is in the 10" house with Sun who is natural 
Karka of Atma (spiritualism). Sun is in its own house and has 
directional strength. It is with digbally lagna lord and both the 
planets are in Shubh Kartari yoga. 


Awards and titles are seen from 10* and 11* houses. It has 
already been explained that 10* house is very strong. Here 11" 
house is also strong with two benefic Jupiter and Mercury. 
Mercury is in its own house exalted while Jupiter is lord of 2 
and 5. This is aclassical dhana ( wealth) yoga par excellence 
as described by Parashara.. Donations poured in for her from 
all over the world. 


Mahadasha of Moon: 

Moon here is involved in sanyas yoga. Her spiritualism blossomed. 
She used to see the visions of Christ and was goaded to do higher 
things of life. It is in this dasha that she made up her mind to devote 


362 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


her life to the poor and downtrodden. 

She lost her father also during this time as 9* lord Moon is 
with Satur in the sixth house. Moon is also in the 9* house from 
Sun. 


Mahadasha of Mars: 

Mars is lagna lord digbally in the 10" house with Sun the 10" 
lord. The purpose for which she was born took shape. Mars is 
aspecting 4* house of property. She was to build many institutions 
for the suffering humanity. 

In Mars Rahu ( Nov 1928) she travelled far away from her 
home and came and settled in India. 

In Mars Jupiter (1929) she went to Calcutta to teach. Jupiter is 
karka for teaching. 

In Mars Mercury (1931) she took vows of celibacy, renunciation 
and devotion and changed her name to Teresa. Mercury is exalted 
and is aspecting 5* house with lord of five. 5th house is house of 
spiritualism and Mercury is incarnation of Bhagwan Vishnu. Jupiter 
is karka for wisdom and inner knowledge. 


Rahu dasha ending 1952: 

Rahu is exalted in Kendra 7* house, the house of Samadhi in the 
rasi of Venus. Venus is in the 9* house of dharma. Rahu is also 
aspected by trikona lord of 5* house Jupiter, thus generating a 
Raja Yoga in the field of religion. On 10" September 1946, while 
she was traveling in a train to Darjeeling she received a calling 
from God to serve Him by looking after the poor and destitute. 
This dasha was a turning point in her life. It was the dasha of Rahu 
- Venus. Venus is in the 9* house of dharma as 12" lord of 
renunciation. Rahu is foreigner , outcaste a chandal (leper)where 
Mother went to provide succour and love. Venus is karka for love. 
In the 9 house unaffiliated it means Divine Love also. Its dispositor 
is Moon who is with Saturn generating Sanyas Yoga in the 6* house 
a house for diseases and patients. 


Rahu Moon - she set up Mission of Charity for which she is so well 
known. Moon is with Saturn lord of four of institutions and property.. 
Moon is lord of nine of religion. Moon is also karka for welfare 
and love of humanity. 


Dasha 363 


Dasha of Saturn (ending 1987) 

A debilitated planet in the 6* gives rajayoga as per Parashara. It is 
also third lord in 6* creating Vipreet Rajyoga.. it was in this period 
that she was awarded the Nobel Prize for Peace. She was the 
sixth woman to get this award. The Indian government honoured 
her with Jawahar Lal Nehru award and Bharat Ratna award.(1980). 
Towards the end of Saturn dasha US president Reagan honoured 
her with the highest civilian award, Medal of Freedom (1985) 


Mercury Dasha (ending 2004) 

Mother Teresa was getting old Death had to come. Mercury was 
. the 8* lord of death. But it was a glorious death that she died. She 
died in Mercury - Rahu - Jupiter. Rahu is in the 7* and Jupiter is 
lord of second, both marka houses. No greater tribute could be 
paid to her than that by French President Jacques Chirac who said, 
" This evening there is less love, less compassion, less light in the 
world." 

(Based on KN Rao's book "Famous Women” ) 


Dasha of the Lord of Tenth House 

Strong: According to Phala Deepika Name, fame, wealth, 
reputation, and virtuous actions. This is one of the best Dashas of 
one's life. Nehru achieved great name and fame in his Dasha of 
the 10* lord Mars. 

Weak: According to Phala Deepika Wicked actions, failure 
in enterprise, live away from homeland and distress. Loss of honour. 
Dasha of the Lord of Eleventh House 

Strong: According to Phala Deepika growth in prosperity, 
domestic happiness. 

Weak: ear disease, trouble to elder brother, son sickly, misery 
and deception 
Dasha of the Lord of the Twelfth House 

Strong: According to Phala Deepika Royal Honours, 
meritorious deeds spend extravagantly on good causes. 

Weak: disease, dishonour, and slavery. Loss of wealth. 

If 12" Jord is weak and is afflicted or aspected by the 6* lord, 
money is spent in useless litigation. See the following horoscope: 


364 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


This person lost property worth crores in Mahadasha of Mars. 
Lord of eighth Mars is in the 4" house aspecting Jupiter lord of 
four property and Karka for wealth. Lord of two wealth Venus is 
combust and is with lord of twelve Sun. Second house of wealth is 
aspected by Saturn lord of sixth from the 12* house. Jupiter is 
Bhadak and has Kendra Adhipati Dosha. It is afflicted by Mars 
and its aspect on the second house could not provide much relief. 
This person was once rich as 11™house of gains is strong aspected 
by its own lord Moon. 
Special Results of Dasha and Antradasha of Venus and Saturn 


According to Uttarkalamitra if Saturn and Venus are both 
strong and become Yoga Karka results of their Dasha and 
Antardasha are very unfavourable. (Strength means exalted own 
house, Vargottam etc.) 

Under such condition the native will be as good as a beggar 
even though he may be rich like Kuber. 

But if one is strong and another is weak the native will enjoy 
good results according to character and strength of stronger 
planet. 

If both of them be weak and are posited in 6, 8, and 12 or one 
of them is situated in 6* or 8* place or another, or they own any 
Dusthan or are posited there or associated with lord of Dusthan 
the results of their Dashas or Antardasha will be exceptionally 
good. 

Saturn and Venus Dashas as given by Kalidas in 
Uttarkalamitra. Venus and Saturn in their mutual sub periods give 
good results if they are in 6, 8 and 12 from each other or in 


Dasha 365 


conjunction in such houses, with one or both debilitated or a malefic 
for the horoscope. 

As ‘Jupiter’ states in his book, 'What the stars foretell’, this 
rather amusing and seemingly paradoxical operation of Venus and 
Saturn is an " exception to the general rule." But Venus and Saturn 
are close friends as is obvious that each one is Yoga Karka in 
other's sign. Venus is Yoga Karka in Capricorn and Aquarius Lagna 
and Satur is Yoga Karka in signs with Lagna of Venus, Taurus 
and Libra. 


Born of wealthy parents. Venus is debilitated. Saturn 
retrogrades in Aries. He was a very high-ranking officer and person 
of repute. He made much money and rose very high in Saturn 
Venus. Saturn is Yoga Karka from Chandra Lagna. 


Chapter XVI 
Yogini Dasha 


Yogini Dasha is very popular in northern India. Some of the 
astrologers steeped in ancient tradition use only Yogini Dasha. On 
this basis they seem to give some very accurate predictions. 
According to Brihat Parasara Hora Shastra, Yogini Dasha was 
revealed by Lord Shiva to Goddess Parvati. There are 8 types of 
Yoginis which are in the following order. Their total operative period 
is 36 years. At the end of this cycle the next cycle starts again in 
the same order and this continues. 


Sr. No. Yogini Lord Period 
1 Mangala Moon 1 Year 
2 Pingala Sun 2 Years 
3, Dhanya Jupiter 3 Years 
4, Bhramari Mars 4 Years 
5. Bhadrika Mercury 5 Years 
6. Ulka Saturn 6 Years 
7, Siddha Venus 7 Years 
8. Sankata Rahu 8 Years 


According to classical texts the planets, Moon, Sun, Jupiter, 
Mars, Mercury, Saturn, Venus and Rahu have been evolved 
respectively from Yoginis, Mangala, Pingala, Dhanya etc. 


Yogini is a Nakshatra based Dasha. The Mahadasha of 
each yogini starts with itself and follows in a regular order as 
above. 


Calculation of Yogini Dasha 


Note down the Nakshatra number in which Moon is in the 
birth horoscope. Add three to the number (there are 27 Nakshatras. 
Eight Yoginis are to be rotated amongst them. If we divide 27 by 
eight, remainder is three) and divide by eight. Remainder gives the 


be 


Yogini Dasha 367 


number which represent the Yogini operative at birth as per order 
in the table above. 


Example: 

Suppose in a horoscope the Moon is in LIBRA Lagna at 16° 
40". It is, therefore in Swati Nakshatra whose number is 15. Add 3 
to no 15 and you get 18. Divide 18 by 8 (no of Yoginis). This gives 
a balance of 2. The second yogini as per table above is that of 
Pingala. 

In this horoscope of Mother Teresa, Moon is with 26 degrees 
in Aries. It is in Bharani Nakshatra whose number is 2. Add three 
to 2 and you get five. Since the figure is less than 8 we will let it 
remain the same. The 5th yogini at birth as per table above is 
Bhadrika whose lord is Mercury and whose duration is 5 years. 
Mother Teresa 26-08-1910, 14:25 Hours, Skopje (Yugoslavia) 


SAT RAHU 
MOON 


Lagna 26°46', Sun9°46', Moon 26°00", Mars 20°24', Mercury 6°36’, 
Jupiter 21° 12', Venus 16°17', Saturn 13°56', Rahu 00° 10'. 
Special Sanyas Yogas present in the Horoscope are 

1. Moon with Saturn in the Rasi of Mars. This is a well known 
Sanyas Yoga. 

2. In the case of women, a malefic in 7th with any planet in the 
9th house is a combination for desire to lead a spiritual life as 
stated by Parasara. 

3. Lagna lord in the 10th house with 10thlord is a combination 
for building institutions. 


368 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


Calculation of Dasha and Antardasha 
Balance of Dasha at birth. 

1. Moon is in Bhami Nakshatra at 26°. The total length of 
Bharani Nakshatra is 26°40’. It has still to cross 26° 40’ - 26° = 
0.40’ in this Nakshatra. The Yogini at birth is Bhadrika or No. 5 
whose duration is 5 years. Total length of Bhadrika is 13° 20’. 

For the total duration of 13° 20’ or it has a balance of 5 years. 
So to arrive at the duration in 40 minutes, multiply 40 by 5 years 
and divide by 13° 20’ or 800 minutes. 


40x35 


x 360 days = 90 days 


So Dasha at birth would be 
Y rs Months days 

Balance of Bhadrika 0 90 
Ulka 
Siddha 
Sankara 
Mangla 
Pingala 
Dhanya 
Bharamari 
Bhadarika 
Ulka 
Siddha 
Sankata 8 

[ Yogini Dasha can be easily calculated by using the tables as Under). 


INU FP WN OHA © 


Long, of Moon 


Yogini Dasha by Longitude of the Moon 


Sign Yogini Dasha 


Sign Yogini Dasha 


Sign Yogini Dasha 


0°00°-13°20° 
13°20°-26°40’ 
26°40’-30°00" 


Aries Bhramari 
Bhadrika 
Ulka 


Leo Bhadrika 
Ulka 
Siddha 


Sagittarius Ulka 
Siddha 
Sankata 


On’ - 
1900" -23°20" 
23°20" -30°0° 


CPO0-6°40) 
640" - 20°00 
20700'-30°00 


0°00’-3°20° 
3°20’-16°40' 
16°407-30°00' 


Taurus Ulka 
Siddha 
Sankata 


Siddha 
Sankata 
Mangala 


Capricorn Sankata 
Mangala 
Pingala 


Gemini Sankata 
Mangala 


Pingala 


Pingala 
Dhanya 
Bhramari 


Libra Mangala 
Pingala 
Dhanya 


Scorpio Dhanya 
Bhramari 
Bhadrika 


Aquarius _— Pingala 
Dhanya 
Bhramari 


Pisces Bhramari 
Bhadrika 
Ulka 


DYSD( 1UIBOX 


370 Analysing Horoscope Through Modem Techniques 


Balance of Yogini Dasha by Longitude of the Moon 


MANGALA 
Longitude of the Moon 
Ardra Chitra Sravana 
Gemini Virgo Capricom 
6°40' 23°20' 10“00' 
720 24“00' 10°40' 
8°00" 24°40' 11°20' 
8°40" 25°20' 12°00' 
9*20' 26°00' 12°40° 
10W 26°40" 13“20' 
10°40' 27°20" 14“00' 
11°20' 28°00" 14“40' 
12W 28°40' 
12“40’ 29=20' 
13°20' 30°00' 
14°00! Lib 0°40' 
14°40' 1220' 
15“20' 2a00' 
16°00’ 2°40' 
16°40' 3*20' 
17°20' 4°00' 
18W 4°40! 
18“40' 5420" 
19¢20" 6°00" 
20800" 6°40" 
PINGALA 
Longitude of the Moon 
Punarvasu Swati Dhanishtha 
Gemini Libra Capricom 
20°00’ 6°40 23°20’ 
20°40” 7°20’ 24°00’ 
21°20' 8°00” 24°40” 
22°00’ 8°40" 25°20’ 
22°40’ 9°20 26°00’ 
23020’ 10W 26°40" 
24°00" 10“40' 27°20" 
24240' 11°20" 28°00" 
25“20' 12°00' 28°40! 
26°00’ 12240 29°20" 
26°40" 13“20' 30°00' 
27°20" 14°00" Aqu 0°40' 
28200' 14“40' 1*20' 
28°40" 15°20" 2W 
29°20" 16”00' 2“40' 
30“00" 16“40' 3*20' 
Can 0°40" 17220' 4“00' 
1“20' 18“00' 4*40' 
2°00’ 1 8°40” 5°20’ 
2°40° 19=20° 6°00" 
3®@20° 20°00” 6°40’ 


1-00-00 
0-11-12 
0-10-24 
0-10-06 
0-09-18 
0-09-00 
0-08-12 
0-07-24 
0-07-06 
0-06-18 
0-06-00 
0-05-12 
0-04-24 
0-04-06 
0-03-18 
0-03-00 
0-02-12 
0-01-24 
0-01-06 
0-00-18 
0-00-00 


1-07-06 
1-06-00 
1-04-24 
1-03-18 
1-02-12 
1-01-06 
1-00-00 
0-10-24 
0-09-18 
0-08-12 
0-07-06 
0-06-00 
0-04-24 
0-03-18 
0-02-12 
0-01-06 
0-00-00 


Yogini Dasha 371 


DHANYA 
Longitude of the Moon Dhanya 
Pushya Vishakha Satabhisha (3 year) 
Cancer Libra Aquarius y-m-d 
3°20” 20-00" 6°40" 3-00-00 
4°00" 20°40" 7°20' 2-10-06 
4°40! 21-20' 8-00" 2-08-12 
5°20! 22-00' 8-40" 2-06-18 
6°00" 22-40' 9°20" 2-04-24 
6°40" 23°20" 10-00" 2-03-00 
7°20! 24-00' 10°40' 2-01-06 
8°00! 24°40! 11°20 1-11°!7 
8°40! 25°20 12°00" 1-09-18 
9°20” 26°40’ 12°40" 1-07-24 
10°00" 26-40’ 13°20' 1-06-00 
10°40" 27°20' 14°00" 1-04-06 
11 “20! 28-00! 1440! 1-02-12 
12-00" 28-40! 15°20" 1-00-18 
12°40! 29-20' 1600" 0-10-24 
13-20° 30°00" 16°40" 0-09-00 
14°00" Sco 0°40! 17°20' 0-07-06 
14°40" 1°20' 18°00" 0-05-12 
15”20' 2°00" 18-40" 0-03-18 
16-00' 240" 19-207 0-01-24 
16-40! 3-20' 20°00! 0-00-00 
BHRAMARI 
Longitude of the Moon Bhramari 
Ashwini Ashlesha Anuradha P.Bhadrapac | (4 year) 
Aries Cancer Scorpio Aquarius y-m-d 
0°00’ 16°40" 3°20" 20°00" 4-00-00 
0°40" 17°20' 4°00" 20°40" 3-09-18 
1°20" 18°00" 4°40' 21°20° 3-07-06 
2°00' 18°40! 5°20! 22°00" 3-04-24 
2°40’ 19°20"' 6°00! 22°40! 3-02-12 
3°20! 20°00! 6°40' 23°20' 3-00-00 
4°00" 20°40! 7°20' 24°00! 2-09-18 
4°40! 21°20' 8°00' 24-40! 2-07-06 
3°20" 22°00! 8°40" 25°20' 2-04-24 
6°00" 22°40! 9°20' 26°00! 2-02-12 
6°40" 23°20" 10°00" 26°40! 2-00-00 
7°20’ 24°00" 10°40” 27°20" 1-09-18 
8°00" 24°40' 11°20” 28°00" 1-07-06 
8°40! 25°20! 12°00' 28°40" 1-04-24 
9°20" 26°00' 12°40" 29=20' 1-02-12 
10°00" 26°40' 13°20" 30°00" 1-00-00 
10°40! 27°20' 14°00! Pis 0°40" 0-09-18 
11°20" 28°00! 14°40" 1°20! 0-07-06 
12°00" 28°40" 15°20! 2°00" 0-04-24 
12°40°* 29°20! 16°00' 2°40" 0-02-12 
13°20' 30°00" 16°40" 3°20' 0-00-00 


372 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


BHADRIKA 


Longitude of the Moon Bhadrika 


Bharani Jyeshtha | U-Bhadrapac (5 year) 
Aries Scorpio Pisces y-m-d 


13=20' 16=40' 3=20' 5-00-00 
14=00° 17=20' 4=00° 4-09-00 
14=40' 18=00' 4=40° 4-06-00 
15=20' 18=40" 5=20' 4-03-00 
16=00' 19=20' 6=00' 4-00-00 
16=40' 20=00' 6=40' 3-09-00 
17=20' 20=40' 7=20' 3-06-00 
18=00' 21=20' 8=00' 3-03-00 
18=40' 22=00" 8=40" 3-00-00 
19=20' 22=40' 9=20' 2-09-00 
20=00" 23=20' 10=00° 2-06-00 
20=40’ : 24=00' 10=40' 2-03-00 
21=20' 24=40’ 11=20' 2-00-00 
22=00' 25=20' 12=00' 1-09-00 
22=40° 26=00' 12=40' 1-06-00 
23=20' 26=40' 13=20' 1-03-00 
24=00" 27=20' 14=00' 1-00-00 
24=40' 28=00' 14=40' 0-09-00 
25=20' 28=40' 15=20' 0-06-00 
26=00' 29=20' 16=00° 0-03-00 
26=40" 30=00' 16=40° 0-00-00 


Longitude of the Moon Ulka 
Kritika P. Bhadrapad Moola Revati (6 year) 
Aries Leo Sagittarius Pisces y-m-d 


26=40' 6-00-00 
27=20' 5-08-12 
28=00' 5-04-24 
28=40' 5-01-06 
29=20! 4-09-18 
30=00' 4-06-00 
Tau 0=40° 4-02-12 
1=20° 4-10-24 
2°00! 3-07-06 
2=40' 3-03-18 
3=20° 3-00-00 
4=00!' 2-08-12 
4=40! 2-04-24 
5°20! 2-01-06 
6=00! 1-09-18 
6=40" 1-06-00 
7=20° 1-02-12 
8=00' 0-10-24 
240" 0-07-06 
ieee 0-03-18 
10=00" 0-00-00 


Yogini Dasha 373 


Longitude of the Moon Siddha 


Rohini U. Phalguni P. Ashadha (7 years) 
Taurus Leo Sagittarius y-m-d 


10=00' 26°40" 13°20" 7-00-00 
10°40” 27°20' 14=00' 6-07-24 
11°20' 28°00' 14=40' 6-03-18 
12°00! 28°40" 15°20' 5-11-12 
12°40! 29=20' 16=00' 5-07-06 
13°20! 30°00" 16°40" 5-03-00 
14=00' Vir 0°40' 17°20' 4-10-24 
14°40! 1°20' 18°00" 4-06-18 
15°20! 2=00' 18°40" 4-02-12 
16°00' 2°40' 19820‘ 3-10-06 
16°40’ 3°20° 20=00' 3-06-00 
17=20' 4=00' 20=40' 3-01-24 
18=00” 4°40' 21=20' 2-09-18 
18°40' 5=20' 22°00" 2-05-12 
19°20' 6=00' 22°40' 2-01-06 
20°00" 6°40' 23°20' 1-09-00 
20°40' 7=20!' 24=00' 1-04-24 
21°20’ 8°00' 24=40' 1-00-18 
22°00" 8=40' 25=20' 0-08-12 
22=40' 9°20" 26=00' 0-04-06 
23°20" 10=00' 26=40' 0-00-00 


SANKATA 


Longitude of the Moon Sankata 


Mrigasira Hasta U. Ashadha (8 years) 
Taurus Virgo Sagittarius y-m-d 


8-00-00 
7-07-06 
7-02-12 
6-09-18 
6-04-24 
6-00-00 
5-07-06 
5-02-12 
4-09-18 
4-04-24 
4-00-00 
3-07-06 
3-02-12 
2-09-18 
2-04-24 
2-00-00 
1-07-06 
1-02-12 
0-09-18 
0-04-24 
0-00-00 


Pingala 


Dhanya 


Bhramari 


Siddha 


Sankata 


Min | Day | Hr 


So 


Min | Day | Hr 


Nl RFRe Cc So 


Oo Oo © AYA ££) Wn — 


eee COF OSC SC CO] SoCo Co eo1eoeo cs Ss 


me Oo oFjococo eo;}joeoc & 


ooo oso; ooo cfc 


2 
3 
3 
4 
4 
4 
5 
5 
6 
6 
7 
ap 
8 
8 
9 


eee 


ed 


NVnNn NTR ee Bl eee 


sanhiuysay, wapoy ysnoiyy, adoososoyx] Sursdqoup ple 


Table 11-6: Yogi: a Bache Major ad Sub Periods 


Yogini Mangala (ly) eee (8y) 
Sub periods Py- : 

-m-d Lontay 
Mangala a = 
Pingala = 4 
Dhanya = : 
Bhramari = : 
Bhadrika . . 
Ulka 7 4 
Siddha 7 z 
Sankata 1-9-10 | 1-9-10 
Mangala 0-2-20 | 2-0-0 
Pingala 0-5-10 | 2-5-10 
Dhanya 0-3-0 | 3-1-10 
Bhramari 4-10-10] 0-10-20 4-0-0 
Bhadrika 1-1-10 | 5-1-10 
Ulka 6-5-10 

8-0-0 


Formula = _Dasha x Antardasha | x 360 days 


36 


1U130X 


DYSsDT 


U) 
LA 


376 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


According to ancient classical Mansagri the results of 
Mahadasha of various Yoginis are as follows: 

1.Mangala (Moon): means Goddess Parvati, auspicious, 
faithful wife Pativrata woman, a festival. Mangla can mean that 
which promotes what is good mainly spiritually as the word Mangal 
is used as a synonym of the word Kalyan also. 

Results: Inclination towards religion. Meeting pious and 
religious people. Devotion to duty, all kinds of comforts, fame, riches, 
gain of conveyance from rulers. Robes, jewellery, happy relations 
with opposite sex. Gain in knowledge, celebration of auspicious 
events. 

2. Pingala (Sun): means fire, an attendant of Shiva, reddish, 
brown. Is also a term used in Hatha Yoga referring to two Nadis, 
Ida and Pingala which is also described as Surya Nadi. 

Results: Heart trouble (if indicated in the chart). Worries, 
mental and physical suffering due to evil company, unfulfilled desires, 
immoral relations, loss of wealth, fame and love. Blood diseases, 
fever bilious pains. Suffering to children, servants and harm to 
relations. 

3. Dhanya (Jupiter): Refers to an agriculture storehouse of 
a farmer referring to his prosperity, also means auspicious, happy, 
wealthy, healthy. 

Results: Gain of wealth, comforts, prosperity. Happy married 
life, education, fame Honour and decoration from the government. 
Pilgrimage and devotion to God. 

4. Bharamari (Mars): means revolving, wandering, troubles 
mistake. 

Results: Aimless wandering, dislocation from house. King 
loses his kingdom and goes for aimless wandering. Loss of position 
and very hard to regain it. 

5. Bhadrika: (Mercury): civilised, gentlemanly, doing good 
auspicious beautiful, brave. 

Results: Happy family life, friendship, meeting holy persons 
and even rulers. Gain in business, all kinds of comforts. Auspicious 
ceremonies. Meeting beautiful women. 

6. Ulka (Saturn): means fire in the sky, danger, meteor. 
Disaster that may happen when a meteor falls. 


Yogini Dasha 377 


Results: Loss of fame wealth and vehicles. Period of suffering 
for children, servants etc. Trouble from government, loss of, job, 
fines. Unhappy relations with family, ailments relating to heart, 
stomach, ear, teeth, feet etc. 

7. Siddha (Venus): fulfilment of desire, means auspicious, 
success, famous. 

Results: Fame, wealth, education, prosperity, position, jewels 
and physical pleasures. 

8. Sankata (Rahu): means imperious, troublesome, 
dangerous, difficulty, risk. 

Results: Loss of position and wealth, fire in the village; city 
and place of residence, fruitless desires loss of minerals like gold. 
Weak body fear of death. 

Result of Yoginis in their Sub Periods 

Mangala - Mangala 

Many friends, happiness from children, wealth, health, 
celebrations. 

Mangala-Pingala: Bitter relations with relatives, mental 
sorrow, much suffering. 

Mangala-Dhanya: Gains of vehicles, gains from children 
and friends, comforts and luxuries. 

Mangala- Bharamari: No harmony with opposite sex, stay 
in foreign country, loss of wealth, introduction with a high placed 
government servant. 

Mangala Bhadrika-wealth, grains, good relations with wife 
and children, entertainment, devotion to God. 

Mangala-Ulka: Loss of money and suffering to children, 
spouse, friends, punishment by government. 

Mangala-Siddha: happiness from children and spouse, gain 
of money, comforts and luxuries good relations. 

Major Period of Pingala 

Pingala-Pingala: Diseases, sorrow, suffering, mental 
tensions. 

Pingala-Dhanya: wealth, children, comforts, happiness, 
luxuries, fulfillment of desires, happy sex. 

Pingala- Bharamari: stay in a foreign country, losses, quarrels 
with family members. 


378 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


Pingala-Bhadrika: Gains from children, fame, prosperity. 

Pingala—Ulka: bad relations with friends and relatives, 
punishment from government, fear of theft, sorrow. 

Pingala-Siddha: Gain from Mantra Yantra, wealth, 
happiness, breathing trouble, diabetes. 

Pingala-Sankata: Loss of money, fear of disease, enemies, 
punishment. Pingala - Mangala: Ill health, sorrow, suffering, loss of 
longevity. 

Dhanya-Dhanya: land, wealth, happiness from wife and 
children. Dhanya - Bharamari: Sorrow, wandering, loss of wealth, 
differences with friends, go away from home. 

Dhanya-Bhadrika: good fortune, happiness from friends 
and family, attainment of high post, conveyance from government, 
gain of property, robes. 

Dhanya-Ulka: loss of wealth, pain in the heart, troubles of 
may kinds. 

Dhanya-Siddha: happiness from children, various kinds of 
pleasures, luxuries, meeting new friends. 

Dhanya-Sankata Imprisonment. No interest in work or 
business. 

Dhanya-Mangala — Auspicious activities, comforts of 
wealth, jewellery, minerals, happiness from wife and children. 

Dhanya-Pingala Loss of wealth, property, mental agony and 
dejection, fear from government, headache. 

Sub Periods in the major Period of Bharamari-Mars 

Bharamari-Bharamari, education, Fear, pain and suffering, 
poisoning, sorrow enemies. 

Bharamari-Ulka: Fear, pain impurity in. 

Bharamari-Siddha: Happiness, wisdom, fulfillment of 
desires, good health. 

Bharamari-Sankata: loss of honour, ist pain suffering 
wandering, loss of honour. 

Bharamari-Mangala: Happy period gains, comforts, help 
from government. 

Bharamari-Pingala: disease of rectum, mouth, feet, 
punishment from government. 


Yogini Dasha 379 


Bharamari-Dhanya: wealth, vehicles, comforts, defeat of 

enemies, happiness from government. 
Sub Periods in the major Period of Bhadrika 

Bhadrika-Bhadrika: Fame, good will, conveyance, 
knowledge of divinity, freedom from pain. 

Bhadrika—Ulka losses, ill health, mental sorrow. 

Bhadrika-Siddha: devotion to gods, celebrations, happy 
times. 

Bhadrika - Sankata: gains and sorrows 

Bhadrika-Mangala: gains, riches, fame ,wealth, happiness 
from children. 

Bhadrika-Pingala: gains from agriculture and property, gain 
from advice of elders. 

Bhadrika-Dhanya: Happiness from children, spouse, 
friends, entertainment, celebrations. 

Bhadrika-Bharamari: fire, fear from electricity, loss of land, 
property, Happiness. 
Sub Periods in the major Period of Ulka 
Ulka-Ulka: fear, losses, sorrow, loss of position. 
Ulka-Siddha: foreign travels, sorrow, losses, dejection. 
Ulka-Sankata: fear of death suffering to family members. 
Ulka-Mangala: happiness from friends, spouse, wealth, good 
health. 

Ulka-Pingala: wandering, skin disease, diseases of head. 

Ulka-Dhanya: average period, happiness and sorrow. 

Ulka—Bhadarika: happy times, loss of jewels, gain of wealth 
and happiness from friends. 

Sub Periods in the major Period of Siddha 

Siddha-Siddha: Fulfillment of all desires, happiness from 
family and children. 

Siddha-Sankata: imprisonment, theft, loss of wealth, penalty. 

Siddha-Mangala: wealth, luxuries, happiness from 
government, fulfillment of desires. 

Siddha-Pingala: Arrogance, fear from fire, illegal 
income. 


380 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


Siddha-Dhanya: Very lucky period, success of all kinds 
without much effort. 

Siddha-Bharamari: bad habits, travel to other places, fear 
from government. 

Siddha-Bhadrika: Auspicious celebrations, comforts, good 
education, happiness good habits. 

Siddha—-Ulka: Loss of wealth, pain, sorrow, diseases of 
rectum and attachment. 

Sub Periods in the major Period of Sankata (Rahu) 

Sankata-Sankata: Death, punishment by government, exile, 
loss Sankata-Mangal ill health-suffering to wife. 

Sankata-Dhanya: stomach pain, happiness from children, 
fame and popularity in one's own country. 

Sankata-Bharamari: wandering, loss all around, fear from 
enemies. 

Sankata-Bhadrika: good education, wealth, jewels, fame 
and conflict with enemies. 

Sankata-Ulka: loss of wealth and conveyance-death like 
situation. 

Sankata-Siddha: high morale, happiness on account of 
children. 
Example: Taken from Journal of Astrology Oct-Dec 1999 
by GN. Saxena 8.9.1938, 5.50 AM, Patna 


Lag 24°52’, Sun 21° 42', Moon 0°48’, Mars 7°07’, Mercury 6°58’, 
Jup 2°02’, Venus 7°54’, Saturn 23°48’, Rahu 27°55’ 

Balance of Dasha Mars 3 yrs, 0M 18 days 

Dasha in September 1995-Mer—Mer-Sun 


Yogini Dasha 381 


Yogini Dasha at birth is Pingala 0 y-10-m -17 days upto 25.7.39 
Running Dasha Sidha Sankata-The Siddha Dasha promises 
fulfilment of all desires, rise in career, good education, fame, wealth, 
education, prosperity. Authority from government and pleasures. 
Lord of Siddha is Venus. It is placed in its own Mooltrikona sign in 
3rd house. Venus is also lord of 10th house. It is aspected by the 
5th lord Jupiter who is in the seventh house of Padhprapri with 
Moon in Gajkesari Yoga. Jupiter’s aspect as lord of fifth house on 
lord of tenth house from 7th house is a Raj Yoga. 

Vimshotari Dasha: The Dasha running was Mercury- 
Mercury -Sun. Mercury is lord of 2nd and 11th house. It is with 
Yoga Karka Mars and Lagna lord Sun aspected by 5th lord Jupiter 
who is in Gajkesari Yoga with Moon. There is exchange of house 
of Jupiter and Saturn. In this Dasha he got a big rise in life. 
Antardasha Results 
Horoscope of Lata Mangeshkar: 

28.9.1929, 22:44, Indore 


SAT 


Lagna 29°42\ Sun 12°12\ Moon 17°17\ Mar 1°52\ Mercury 

29°58’, Jupiter 23°27\ Venus 10°48\ Saturn 1°46\ Rahu 19°56’ 
Moon in Ashlesha: Nakshatra no. 9 

Dasha Scheme Balance Mercury 16 yrs 05 m 0 day 

Awarded Bharat Ratna 26 January 2001 in Vimshotari dasa of 
Rahu Jupiter Rahu and in Yogini Dasha of Dhanya Sankata. Jupiter 
is in the 11th from Moon and Rahu is in 10th from Moon. 


382 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


Sachin Tendulkar 
21.04.1973, 18 01 Mumbai 


Sachin Tendulkar 


Lag 25°26', Sun 7°46', Moon 21°36', Mar 24°43' Mer 12°40’ 
Jup 16°17', Ven 10°48’, Sat 23°58', Rahu 16°26' 


Balance Mercury 10 yrs 1 month 2 days 


Moon in Jyeshta 3 years 1 month 23 days Nakshatra no. 18, 
Balance Yogini Bhadrika 


ffm fe 
KET 
VEN 
NAVAMSA 


Made mark in International cricket 19.05.1989 Jup Ven-Rahu in 
D/10. 

Married 19.5.1995 Jupiter Mars Sat 

Sun, Ven Ven Daughter Ven Ven Mars 

Father died 19-05-1999 Ven Rahu Sun 


Yogini Dasha 383 


N.T. Rama Rac: famous cinema actor, producer and later Chief 
Minister of Andhra Pradesh; 28-05-1923; 16:43 


Lagna 19°11°, Sun 13°18’, Moon 18°49", Mars 5°37", Mer 14°18", 
Jup 18°32", Ven 15°27", Saturn 20°52’, Rahu 24°24”. 
LAGNA 


SUN 


384 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


Balance Rahu 1 years 6 months 26 days 

Pingala 0-2-3 Swati Nakshatra 15 

1. Chief Minister of Andhara Pradesh: January 1983 
Venus Venus 

In Yogini Sidha Bhadrika 

2. Marriage 20 11 1993 (Venus Rahu Moon) 

Yogini Pingala Bharamari-Sun Mars 

3. Dismissed and Arrested 16.8.1984 

Venus Venus and Sankat Sankat 

Sankata Sankata 


It was the period of Venus Venus in Vimshottari 
Sankat Sanket 
5. Chief Minister Third Time April 1989 

It was the period of Venus Moon in Vimshottari and Sankat 
Bhadrika in Yogini 
7. Fourth Term Chief Minister April, 1994 

It was the period of Venus Jupiter in Vimshottari Dasha and 
Pingala Bhadrika in Yogini. Sun Mercury. Mercury is Vargottam. 
8. 18.1.1996 Death Venus Jupiter 

It was Mahadasha of Jupiter the 6th lord aspecting the 7th 
house and the Antardasha of Mars the 7th lord. A Dasha or 
Antardasha lord placed in the 2nd or 7th house from Lagan or 
Lagna lord or Moon can prove fatal provided the calculated span 
of life is coming to an end. 
It was the period of Dhanya Bhramari in Yogini. Jupiter is aspecting 
the 7th house and Mars is the 7th lord 


Chapter XVII 
Nakshatras 


Zodiac of 360 degrees has 27 Nakshatras or fixed Stars. Each 
Nakshatra has a span of 13°20". It is further divided into 4 parts 
each of 3 degrees, 20 minutes. Each part is also called a Charan 
or Pada as also Navamsa. Nakshatras are important in the sense 
that the whole scheme of Parasari Dasha system is based on position 
of Moon at time of birth in a particular Nakshatra. 

The main source of information on Nakshatras are Vedas, 
Puranas, Mahabharat and occasional reference in classical books 
on Astrology, mainly Jatak Brihat of Varahamihira. Nakshatras are 
fertile field for research as some of the great secrets of Astrology 
are hidden in them. Knowledge of Nakshatras is a must for 
Muhurata or for choosing auspicious moments. 

Birth Star 

In Hindu Astrology Birth Star is called ‘Janam’ Nakshatra. 
This is the Nakshatra in which Moon is located at birth.’ Jyotishis' 
of old school give great importance to this factor. 

According to other school of thought ascertain whether the 
Moon or Ascendant is strong. The Nakshatra in which stronger of 
the two is posited is known as ‘Janam’ Nakshatra. Still others take 
lord of Ascendant in place of Ascendant and compare it with Moon 
to see which is stronger of the two. 

The Nakshatras have a great importance in predictive 
astrology. The placement of lord of a house in 3rd, 5th and 7th 
Nakshatra from Janam Nakshatra is considered as evil. Though 
sometimes their importance is overstated yet with our present 
knowledge we should be very cautious in pronouncing judgement. 
Horoscope has to be seen in totality and is not to be condemned 
just because birth is not in an auspicious Nakshatra. 

Some Misconceptions 

Some misconceptions from the ancient times are being scrupulously 
followed by the traditional astrologers. According to whom the birth 
in following Nakshatras are considered inauspicious. 


386 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


For Girls 


For children of female sex birth in the following Nakshatras are 
considered inauspicious. , 

Ardra, Ashlesha, Satabhisha, Pushya, Moola, Chitra, Jyeshta 
and Krittika. These girls unless otherwise suitable are supposed to 
bring death, strife, sorrows after marriage. 


Boys 


Male children born in the mother's Nakshatra bring death to father, 
while those born in fathers Nakshatra lead to mother's death. This 
rule does not apply to girls. 


Gand Mool Nakshatras 


Special Importance has been attached for births in Ashlesha, 
Magha, Jyeshta, Moola, Revati, and Ashvini which in Hindu 
Astrology are known as "Gand Mool Nakshatras". They are 
considered inauspicious both for boys as well as girls. These 
Nakshatras are Nakshatras of Mercury and Ketu and occur at the 
conjunction of signs 4, and 5 (Cancer and Leo), 8 and 12 (Scorpio, 
and Sagittarius), 12 and 1, (Pisces, and Aries). 

According to Hindu Jyotish, Sandhi - strength of a juncture 
point is weakened because of the intermingling or transition of two 
different energies. 

Gandanta (end of the cheek) portions of the Nakshatra is 
another type of sandhi which is considered inauspicious. These 
portions are 

1. Last Pada 30°20' of Ashlesha, Jyeshta and Revati 

(Nakshatras of Mercury) 

2. And first Pada or 3020 of Ashvini, Magha and Moola 

(Nakshatras of Ketu) 

Gandanta is particularly bad because it is a double sandhi, a 
juncture of two Rasis as well as two Nakshatras. Planets located 
at these points are very weak and supposed to cause major problems 
in life unless proper remedial measures are taken. 

These Nakshatras are supposed to cause following harms 


Nakshatrasg| 1st pads 


Nakshatras 


2nd pads 


387 


3rd pads| 4th pads 


1] Moola 
2.| Ashlesha 
3.| Ashvini 
4.) Magha 


5.| Jyeshta 


6.| Revati 


death of 
mother 
loss of 
brother 
comforts in 
life 

fear to 
father 
loss of 
younger 
brother 


death of 
father 
loss of 
wealth 
fear to 
father 
fear to 
mother 
loss of 
elder 
brother 


kingly life loss of property 


friends 


Division of Zodiac into 27 Nakshatras 
There are 12 signs or Rasis in the Zodiac. Each sign of 30° has 2*4 
Nakshatras. Since a Nakshatra has four Padas 0 3°20’ each, making 


a total of 13°20’ there are 9 Padas in each Rasi. A table of 


Nakshatras in each Rasi is given below. 


Rasis 
or Signs 


Aries 


Taurus 


Gemini 


Nakshatras 


1. Ashvini 

(four Padas: 1,2,3,4) 
2. Bharani 

(four Padas: 1,2,3,4) 
3. Krittika 

(1st pads) 

3. Krittika 

(three Padas 2,3,4) 
4, Rohini (1 to 4) 

5. Mrigsira 

(two Padas: 1,2) 

5. Mrigsira 

(two Padas: 3,4) 

6. Ardra 

(four Padas: 1,2,3,4) 
7, Punarvasu 

(three Padas: 1,2,3) 


loss of | loss of 
wealth | property 
death of | death of 
mother | father 


gain from] kingly life 
comforts | gain of 


money 
death of | own death 


loss of wealth 


Span (longitude) Lord 


0°to 13°20’ 
13°20’ to26°40’ 
26°40’ to 30°.00 
0° to 10° 


10° to 23° 20° 
23° 20’ to 30° 


0° to 6°40’ 
6°40’ to 20° 


20° to 30° 


Rahu 


Jupiter 


388 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


Rasis or 
Signs 


Cancer 


Leo 


Virgo 


Libra 


Scorpio 


Sagittarius 


Nakshatras 


7. Purarvasu 
(4th Pada) 
8. Pushy ami 
(four Padas: 1,2,3,4) 
9. Ashlesha 
(four Padas: 1,2,3,4) 
10. Magha 
(four Padas: 1,2,3,4) 
11.Poorva Phalguni 
(four Padas: 1,2,3,4) 
12. Uttara Phalguni 
(ist Pada) 
12. Uttara Phalguni 
(three Padas: 2, 3, 4) 
13. Hasta 
(fourPadas:1,2,3,4) 
14, Chitra 
(two Padas: 1,2) 
14, Chitra 
(two Pada: 3,4) 
15. Swati 
(four Padas: 1,2,3,4) 
16. Vishakha 
(three Padas: 1,2,3) 
16.17 Vishakha 1) 
(4th Pada) 
17. Anuradha 
(four Padas: 1,2,3,4) 
18. Jyeshta 
(four Padas: 1,2,3,4) 
19. Moola 
(four Padas: 1,2,3,4) 
20. Poorva Ashada 
(fourPadas:1,2,3,4) 
21. Uttara Ashada 
(st Pada) 


Span (longitude) 


0° to 3°20” 
3°20' to 16°40" 
16°40’ to 30° 
0° to 13°20" 
13° 20° to 26°40” 
26° 40” to 30°.00 
0° to 10° 
10°.00 to 23°20” 
23°20’ to 30° 
0° to 6°40” 
6°40’ to 20°.00 
20° to 30°.00 
* 
0° to 3°20’ 
3°20' to 16°40’ 
16°40’ to 30° 
0° to 13°20” 
13°20’ to 26°40’ 


26°40’ to 30°00 


Lord 


Jupiter 
Saturn 
Mercury 
Ketu 
Venus 
Sun 

Sun 
Moon 
Mars 
Mars 
Rahu 
Jupiter 
Jupiter 
Saturn 
Mercury 
Ketu 
Venus 


Sun 


Nakshatras 3»y 


Rasis or Nakshatras Span (longitude) Lord 

Signs 

Capricorn 21. Uttara Ashada 0° to 10°.00 Sun 
(three Padas 2, 3,4) 
22. Shravana 10° to 23°20’ Moon 
(fourPadas:1,2,3,4) 
23. Dhanishta 23°20’ to 30°.00 Mars 
(two Padas: 1,2) 

Aquarius 23. Dhanishta 0° to 6°40’ Mars 
(two Padas:3,4) 
24. Satabhisha 6°40’ to 20°.00 Rahu 
(four Padas: 1,2,3,4) 
25. Poorva Bhadra 20° to 30°.00 Jupiter 
(three Padas: 1,2,3) 

Pisces 25. Poorva Bhadra 0° to 3°20’ Jupiter 
(4th Pada) 
26. Uttara Bhadra 3°20' to 16°40! Saturn 
(fourPadas:1,2,3,4) 
27. Revati 16°40’ to 30° Mercury 


(four Padas: 1,2,3,4) 


These Nakshatras should be memorized for predictive purposes, 
Muhurata, Parasari Dasha, Yogini Dasha etc. 

According to some pundits there are 28 Nakshatras. This 
additional Nakshatra has been allotted number 22, thus shifting 
number of the rest of Nakshatras. Revati will thus get number 28. 
Aid to Memory 
Remember Nakshatras repeat after 9th. For example Nakshatras 
I, 10 and 19 belong to Ketu. Nakshatras 2,11 & 20 belong to Venus 
3, 12 & 21 belong to Sun 4, 13 & 22 are of Moon 5, 14 & 23 belong 
to Mars 6,15 & 24 are of Rahu 7,16 & 25 belong to Jupiter 8, 17 & 
26 belong to Saturn and 9, 18 & 27 belong to Mercury. Again 

1. Fiery signs 1,5 & 9 (Aries, Leo and Sagittarius) have same 
set of Nakshatras i.e. Ketu (4 Charan), Venus (4 Charan) 
and of Sun(I Charan) 

2. Earthy signs 2, 6 & 10 (Taurus, Virgo, Capricom) have 

Nakshatras of Sun (3 Charan), Moon (4 Charan), Mars (2 

Charan). 


390 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


3. Airy signs 3, 7 & 11 (Gemini, Libra, Aquarius) have 

Nakshatras of Mars (2), Rahu (4), and Jupiter (3). 

4. Watery signs 4, 8 & 12 (Cancer, Scorpio and Pisces) have 

Nakshatras of Jupiter (1), Saturn (4) and Mercury (4). 
Characteristics of Nakshatras 
1. Ashvini (Aries * 0° to 13°20') Lord Ketu 
According to Varahamihira the person born in Ashvini will be fond 
of decoration, handsome, popular, skillful and intelligent. Fond of 
good dress and will have happy relations with friends and relations. 

The symbol of Ashvini is horse's head and its presiding 
deity are Ashvini Kumars, the twins in Vedic lore who as physicians 
to gods had performed many miracles in medicine. Because of its 
association with horse, the person born under the influence of 
Nakshatra could also be a horse rider or soldier. 

According to Puranas Sanga was the mother of twin 
Ashvini Kumars, therefor, association with this Nakshatra produces 
twins. If Mars as third lord is posited in the third house in Ashvini 
Nakshatra, chances are it will give birth of twin brothers. Similarly 
Jupiter as 5th lord, if posited in Ashvini Nakshatra may give birth to 
twin children. 

The persons born under this Nakshatra (Ascendant or 
Moon in Ashvini) are popular, extravagant and have love of speed. 
Carriage for transport is derived from word Aswi, There every 
thing relating to transport comes under its purview. 

Parts of body — knees, upper part of body 

Profession — It has been observed that quite a large number of 
physicians, chemists and those with active martial life like army, 
police sportsmen were born under this Nakshatra. Dealer in copper 
iron and steel. Sometimes in the case of doctors 10th lord, planet 
associated with profession or another prominent planet of the 
horoscope is located in Ashvini Nakshatra. 

In mundane astrology Ashvini rules over rice, wool, iron, copper, 
mining industry, factory workers and railways. 

2. Bharni (Aries - 13°20' to 26°40') Lord Venus 
Determined, truthful, healthy, skilful and happy, idealists, moralists. 
Often jealous type. Free from disease. Intelligent, fond of pleasure. 
The etymological meaning of Bharni is ‘what deserves to be 
cultivated and preserved’. 


Nakshatras 391 


Symbol — Yoni - female sex organ implying self purification after 
struggle or turmoil. 
Deity Yama, He is not only the god of death, but he is also the 
dispenser of justice, truth, honesty and integrity, metes out reward 
and punishment. He is the great lord of Dharma. 
Parts of body — bead, bottom of feet. 
Mundane: wheat, rice, chillies, edible oils medicines, tamarind, tea. 
Profession — Arts, entertainment, film industry, law, judges, 
ministers, food industry, hotels. 
3. Krittika (Aries - 26°40’ to 30°.00’, Taurus 0° to 10°00’) 
Lord Sun 
Symbol — razor like instrument, deity - Agni, great purifier, 
consumer, and giver of light and heat. Agni causes the fire of life. 
Without fire there would be no life. Agni is the base of creation. 
Agni gives the fire of digestion and heat to cook the food. The fire 
bums all impurities, it bums all that is sinful, sordid and dark. The 
Krittika of Aries Rasi whose lord is Mars has plenty of heat which 
bums. But Krittika of’ Taurus Rasi whose lord is Venus, has 
brightness, is soft and sweet and is the significator of music, dance, 
art and drama, poetry and imagination He is also the expounder of 
all branches of learning. 
According to Varahamihira person born under Krittika is a 
voracious eater, fond of others wives, attractive and renowned. 
Parts of body — hips and loins, upper and back portion of head. 
Mundane: rice, oil seeds ,dry fruit diamonds, precious stones and 
metal, international trade, steel, armed forces debt recovery. 
Profession—inventor, discoverer, excavators, military, police, fire. 
4. Rohini (Taurus - 10° to 23°20’) Lord Moon 
It is the birth Nakshatra of Lord Krishna. Lord was handsome 
because he was bom in Nakshatra of Moon and Rasi of Venus. 
Ladies bom in this Nakshatra are very beautiful. 
The word is derived from Rohan which means to rise or to bring 
into existence. 
Most favourite of Moons wives (Nakshatras) because of charm, 
mastery over art and music. 
Symbol cart or chariot, cattle and conveyance. 
Deity: Brahma 

Truthful, clean, following religious and moral principles, sweet in 


392 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


speech, fixed mind and handsome. 

Parts of body shins and calves of legs and ankles, forehead. 
Mundane; All types of food, grain, cotton, silver, crude oil, petrol, 
perfumes, automobiles, shipping, rulers and politicians. 

Profession — Field of art, agricultural, food, hotels, restaurants, 
fashion and modelling. 

The famous personalities in the art world like, Nargis Dutt, Lata 
Mangeshkar and Rukmini Arundale had their ascendants in Rohini. 
5. Mrigsira (Taurus - 23°20' to 30°00' - Gemini 0° to 6° 40°) 
Lord Mars 

Capricious, skilful, cowardly, good speaker, hopeful rich and 
enjoying, suspicious, prone to wander. 

Symbol — deer head. The word 'Mriga represents forests, gardens, 
to roam around in forests, a guide and preceptor - to seek, to discover 
and to find. 

Parts of body — Eyes 

Mundane computers, radios, revenue department, cinema, and 
jewellery. 

Profession—Textiles, garments, gem, pets, animal, poets, thinkers. 
6. Ardra (wet or moist) (Gemini - 6°40' to 20°00') Lord Rahu 
Self-interested, proud, ungrateful cruel and sinful, person with strong 
feelings. 

When Sun enters Ardra the earth is said to be starting its 
menstrual course. Its symbol is teardrop with presiding deity as 
Rudra, placement of planet in it may hinder its signification, lordship 
etc. tears or moisture may lead to a new birth. Rudra removes 
things which have out lived their utility. From Rudra comes all 
suffering, persecutions, anger. Rudra is another name of Shiva. He 
is both symbols of serenity and destruction, peaceful and most 
terrible. 

Feminine planet, connection of 5th lord gives daughter as 
a child. 

Profession — Double talk politicians, atomic researcher, 
chemiotherapist. Chemical formulas, drug traffickers. 

Parts of body back of the head - eyes. Male kidney trouble and 
uterine diseases of females. 

Mundane: edible oils, ghee, sandal wood, perfumes, toiletries, 
communication, transport, postal and telegraph, airport and air force. 


Nakshatras 393 


7. Punarvasu (Gemini ¢ 20° to 30° * Cancer 0° to 3°20°) Lord 


Jupiter 

Symbol bow, quiver (which holds arrows) represent energy and 
resources, travel and return home, like arrows used and return, 
recycle, regain what is Lost, penetrate the target, deity Aditi, virtue, 
nobility, philosophy, religion, Yoga. Mother Aditi ,from whose womb 
12 Aditi as were born from Kashyap are 12 Vasus, Indra, Vishnu, 
Vaga, Aatwasta, Varun, Aryama, Pusa, Mitra, Agni, Parjyana, 
Vivasawan, and Dinakar. As against demons the Gods had tasted 
of nectar and were aware of the supreme bliss it represents. 
Punarvasu is derived from Puna + Vasu, meaning return, renewal 
Moon or Jupiter in 4th quarter (Cancer), spiritual longing. 

Parts of body — fingers, nose. 

Philosophers, innovators, thinkers, building contractors, scientists, 
architects, civil engineers. 

Mundane raw cotton, gold, silver, grains, ready made garments, 
bankers and insurance agencies, rulers and politicians. 

Ramana Maharishi, Priest Girdhari Lal, were born under this 
Nakshatra. 

8. Pushya (Cancer 3°20' to 16°40') Lord Saturn 

Represents a flower, a bow, deity Brahspati, Control over passions, 
learned, rich and charitable. 

Religious, happy, good, sickly, thirsty and pleased with small gifts, 
comfortable living. 

Symbol milk yielding udder of a cow, the word etymologically means 
to ‘nourish, to preserve, to protect, and to strengthen. Every thing 
of the very best comes within the scope of this Star. Prosperity and 
enjoyment of wealth. Its deity Brahspati is associated with 
abundance, growth, wealth, fame, popularity, charity - like cow 
nourishes children - nurturing type. Jupiter bestows speech, religion, 
wisdom, luck, devotion, prayer, purity, honesty, truth, virtuous conduct, 

honesty, philosophical. Brahspati is the great preceptor, the all 

knowing one. 

He is the repository of all knowledge and head of all ceremonies. 
Pushya represents blossoming and flourishing. 

Parts of body— Face 

Mundane rice, ghee, salt, gold, mines and petroleum, edibles oils, 
agriculture and dairy products, rulers and Ministers. 

9. Ashlesha (Cancer 16°40' to 30°00') Lord Mercury 
Sinful, ungrateful, cheat, selfish. 

Symbol coiled serpent, deity Nagas. Associated with every thing 


394 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


that stands for snakes secrecy, deceit, cold bloodedness. To hide 
himself, to encircle, to entwine. It is not good to have 10th or 9th 
lord in this Nakshatra, as this would mean dangers, obstruction and 
handicaps in life. With Lagna in this star one is wily. Such people 
would like to work in secret. 

Also wisdom, power of concentration and insight. 

Profession —chemicalengineers, druggists, self-serving politicians, 
businessmen, controversial. 

Parts of body —joints, nails, ears. 

Mundane: emerald green, silver, doctors and nurses, poisonous 
substances, international trade. 

Indira Gandhi had her ascendant in Ashlesha. 

10. Magha (Leo 0° to 13°20') Lord Ketu 

Many servants, great wealth, enjoying, respects elders and gods 
and very enterprising 

Symbol royal throne room, presiding deity Pitrass ancestors of one's 
family. 

Throne room, a place of diplomacy, royal, regal and eminence. 
Restlessness, weakness for opposite sex. Royal planets, Sun and 
Moon thrive here. Ancestors give gifts in plenty without expecting 
reward. Things in abundance. 

Parts of body — Nose, Lips, Chin 

Profession — heads of State, big business, lawyers, judges, 
historians, archaeologists. 

Mundane edible oils, ghee, linseed, electronic goods and electrical 
appliances chemical and plastic industry. 

Jayalalitha has her Moon in Magha, and Chaitanya Mahaprabhu 
his ascendant. 

11. Poorva Phalguni (Leo - 13°20' to 26°40’) Lord Venus 
Sweet speech, liberal, handsome, fond of travelling and servants. 
Symbol bed or couch, Deity Bhaga one of Adityas responsible for 
married bliss and wealth. Alternate deity Shiva Lingam - the origin 
of creation. On the one hand it is joy of creation, on the other hand 
it shows other worldliness and renunciation. Fame and renown arc 
special features of this star Poorva Phalguni and Uttarphalguni are 
symbols of fortune and luck. It is the birthstar of Brahspati. 
Hammock represents, rest, recreation, enjoyment, sex. Bhaga is 
love, sexual pleasures, wealth. 


Nakshatras 395 


Shiva Lingam represents spiritualism. Act of creation with sacred 
meaning. Inner meaning of creation. 
Fame, renown and wealth. 
Parts of body — upper lips, sex organs, right hand. 
Profession — Music, artists actors, entertainment. 
President John F. Kennedy, Rajiv Gandhi Chaitanya Mahaprabhu 
12, Uttarphalguni (Leo- 26°40 to 10°00’ Virgo) Lord Sun 
Popular, self acquired property, enjoying and happy. 
Symbol bed or hammock, deity Aryaman one of the Aditya ruling 
patronage, Poorvaphalguni and Uttarphalguni are pair together. The 
only difference is that generosity, kindness, patronage and eagerness 
to help are more pronounced in this Nakshatra. Bhaga and Aryaman 
worshipped together as they are complimentary to each other. Also 
represent sexual scandals or escapades or gains. Parts of body — 
Lips, sexual organs, left hand. 
Profession — Social workers, people in high places, sex symbols. 
13. Hasta (Virgo 10°00’ to 23°20) - Lord Moon 
Enterprising, intelligent, shameless, drunkard cruel and thief. 
Symbol closed hand — shows determination and clenched resolution. 
Hand ability to hold on and grasp material or spiritual things. Sun 
responsible for spiritual things. 
Presiding deity Savitri or Sun. The 12 names of Sun are 1. Aran, 2. 
Aditya Tapan, 4. Divakar, 5. Bhaskar, 6. Bhanu, 7. Martanda, 8. 
Mihir, 9. Ravi. 10. Bivakar, 11.Sahasramsu, 12. Sura. 

All the attributes of these names are caused by this star. 
From Sun comes life and strength. It is the light that dispels darkness. 
Sun is king, a leader and repository of the strength of soul. 
Parts of Body — hands and fingers. It is the hand of Kalaprusha. 
Profession — Advisors. Ministers, authors, priests, thieves, rascals, 
comedians, palmists, astrologers. 
Swami Vivekanand, Maharaj Roop Chandji (Spiritualist) Hasta 
associated with 5th lord may deny children. 
14. Chitra or Chitta (Virgo 23°20’ to Libra 6°40') Lord Mars 
Chitra is very beautiful to look at. Wears elegant clothes, 
impressive personality’ charisma, personal charm. Persons shine 


396 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


in life. They have a gift for narration. Indefatigable and 
unconquerable. Serious and profound student. Moon in Chitra, 
serious and ardent student fond of books. 

Symbol shining jewel deity Vishwakarma the divine architect, the 
lord of practical arts, beautiful engraving like done at Taj Mahal, 
embroidery, calligraphy, industrial engineering, skill in organization 
of machinery. 

Parts of body — forehead of Kalapurusha, neck. 

Profession — genius, business, art, music, medicine (unusual herbs), 
jewellery, engineering, invention. 

John F. Kennedy Ascendant in Chitra, Mahatma Gandhi Ascendant 
in Chitra, Moon in Ashlesha, K.N. Rao, Moon in Chitra, Ascendant 
in Vishakha. 

15. Swati (Libra 6°40' to 20°00') Lord Rahu 

Polite, merchant, kind hearted, sweet tongued and generous. 
Symbol coral. Mild and quiet nature who controls his passions and 
desires, sweet speech, charitable. Philosophical, religious, Has 
special affinity with Goddess Saraswati. It is auspicious to worship 
Saraswati when Moon is in Swati. Rahu, Venus and Saturn strong 
in Swati, in Lagna give strength and endurance. 

According to some the deity of this Star is wind, (Marat), 
which imply restlessness and inability to stay at a place for long. It 
is self assured and asserting. A person barn under this star is good 
for buying and selling. His wealth and property comes and goes 
easily. 

Parts of body — chest, intestines 

Profession — Business, profound scholars, ascetics (Amitabh 
Bachchan) 

16. Vishakha (Libra 20°00' to Scorpio 3°20') Lord Jupiter 
Jealous, avaricious, handsome, clever speaking, wealthy, 
quarrelsome. 

Symbol triumphal gateway decorated with leaves deity Indragni 
Indra, chief of gods and Agni (Fire). Represent success and victory, 
tend to become dictators Indomitable courage and herculian efforts 
to achieve goals. Alienate friends, use them for their own end. For 
them nothing is more important than ends and achieving success. 
They could be fearless and unscrupulous in following their ends. 
He works at various things but hardly concentrates on anything. 
Loss and disaster from enemies. 


Nakshatras 397 


Parts of body — arms, breast 

Profession ,__ literature, politics, will of steel, dictators, conquerors. 
17. Anuradha (Scorpio 3°20 to 16°40) - Lord Saturn 
Friendship, love and affection, chief, living in foreign countries, fond 
of travelling. 

Symbol — lotus, triumphal gateway as in Vishakha. Deity Mitra, 
another Aditya related to friends. The difference between Vishakha 
and Anuradha, is that the former forgets everything after achieving 
the ends, whereas the later never forgets, has tender feelings and 
keeps his friends. 

Numerous friends, live and travel away from home. Interest in 
accounting, statistics, and scientific numbers. 

Parts of body — breasts, stomach, womb. 

Profession — brave, sweet in speech - mass leaders inspire love, 
loyalty, clever in making money. 

18. Jyeshta (Scorpio 16°40’ to 30°00') Lord Mercury 

Few friends, contended, cheerful, charitable, very irritable, hypocrite, 
secretive. 

Symbol Earrings, deity Indra, the king of gods, the mighty warrior, 
a great hero and is all powerful. When under malefic influence it 
causes sorrow and poverty. 

Parts of body — neck, right side of trunk. 

Profession — Jyeshta means eldest, energetic famous. Mines, 
engineering, people who protect. 

19. Moola (Sagittarius 0° to 13°20") Lord Ketu 

Proud, rich, happy, good steady and enjoying. 

Symbol roots, deity Nirriti (calamity). Its other name is Alakshmi, 
ie. goddess of bad luck. It also means opposite or reverse. It is not 
one of good stars. Moola is roots, everything of base nature. Its 
movements are limited, they do not go beyond normal groove. Old 
servants, vedas serving herbal treatments. It also means getting to 
bottom of things, science, philosophy are under its purview. Not 
rich as Nritti and Mulla opposed to riches. It is also significator of 
mortgage and mortgage property. 

Profession — Skilled, clever, medicine. 


398 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


20. Poorvashada (Sagittarius 13°20" to 26°40') Lord Venus 
Gives a loving wife, truthful, kind to mother, loves travel, liked by 
women and has rich friends. Like water kind, forgiving, firm in 
danger, concealment, courage, fish trade and marine life. Symbol 
is fan Presiding deity is water god. 

Another name for Nakshatra is Aparajit ,who cannot be defeated. 
Hence represents victory in straggles. Represents patience, like 
fan which tolerates and conquers heat. Also means invincible, 
associated with declaration of war. Is also good debator. Represents 
water, as such means journeys by sea, and watery diseases, kidney, 
bladder. Profession, shipping, sea, navy. 

21. Uttarasadha (Sagittarius 26°40’ to Capricorn 10°00') Lord 
Sun 

Strong, grateful, popular and social. Has knowledge of good and 
bad Honest and respected. 

Poorvasadha and this Nakshatra are close allies. But 
whereas the former has the tendency to expand and is all extensive, 
Uttarasadha is more intensive an its results are more lasting. The 
deity who is preserver and looks after its welfare is known as 
Ganadevata’. There are ten Ganadevatas, Vasu, Satya, Kratu, 
Daksha, Kala, Kama, Dhriti, Kuni, Purubha, Madraba. The warrior, 
wrestler, painter, artist, magician, the elegantly dressed person, the 
happy and successful, charismatic and socially applauded are born 
under this star. 

Self control, endurance and firm character are other attributes of 
this star. 

Symbol —tusk of an elephant 

Deities, 10 Vishvadevas, son of God Dharma and Goddess Vishva. 
Elephant Tusk is also associated with Lord Ganesha. Removal of 
all obstacles. Gives talent for starting new ventures and the capacity 
to complete them. Sharp and penetrating like the tusk. Great insight. 
Parts of body — thighs and waist. 

Profession — pioneers, military men, fighters, doctors etc. 

22. Shravana (Capricorn 10°00' to 23° 10') Lord Moon 
This Nakshatra is associated with Lord Vishnu the Preserver and 
is the birthstar of Goddess Saraswati as such it represents 
knowledge and learning, charity, kindness and humanitarianism. 
Education, scholarship, respect for traditional values are its special 


* 


Nakshatras 399 


attributes. Represents eminent persons in the field of education 


and knowledge. 
Shravan means to hear, and as such represents transmission of 
knowledge through oral tradition, bearing and has connection with 


Vedas. 

Symbol — ear, arrow. 

Pans of Body — ear, and sex organs. 

Profession — religious teachers, scholars, fond of travelling. Swami 
Vivekananda had his 10th lord in Shravan Nakshatra. 

23. Dhanishta (Capricorn 23°20' To Aquarius 6°40) Lord 
Mars 

Fond of music, brave, noble, opionated, valiant. 

Dhanishta symbol is a drum, and its deities are eight Vedic gods 
known as Vasus, wealthy good and benevolent. 

It is the giver of wealth, precious stones, gold and diamonds, Persons 
"born under this star have no sexual drive. Saturn as 7th lord in it, 
would make a person impotent. The person under the influence of 
this star is sexually weak and rarely marries. If married ,marriage 
becomes a bed of thorns for him, Marital discords and sexual 
maladjustments. 7th lord in it, a malefic planet can deny marriage. 
Parts of body— Back, anus 

Professions — Medicine, religious institutions, property music,- 
prayers, poetry. 

Chandraswami was born under this Nakshatra. 

24. Satabhisha (Aquarius 6° 40’ to 20° 00') Lord Rahu 
Symbol — 100 flowers deity Varuna, lawyers, harsh tongued, 
learned, tactful, popular with government. 

The oceans, rivers, lakes, marine life are represented by 
it. It contains boats, places to hide things, failure, sadness, death, 
idleness. 

Parts of Body: Anus 

Diseases: dropsy, rheumatism and heart disease. 

25. Poorva Bhadra (Aquarius 20° 00' to Pisces 3° 20') Lord: 
Jupiter 

Sad, serious, nervous, fearful, harsh word greedy, subservient to 
women, gifted tongue, irreligious, jealous, stingy, pain, injury, fall, 
accidents, attack. It causes burns, punishes by fire, to cause pain, 
to bum things to ashes, harsh words, greedy restless, excess of anger. 
Parts of body — sides of body including ribs, sides of legs, soles of 


400 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


feet. 

Symbol — sword, man with two faces, deity Ajaikapada form of 
Rudra deity of destruction, fire and heat. 

Profession — associated with death, murderers, fanatics, terrorist. 
26. Uttara Bhadra (Pisces 3°20' to 16° 40') Lord Saturn 
happy, able speakers, virtuous, benevolent, charitable, talkative, 
deceitful. 

Symbol — back legs of funeral cot. 

Deity—Ahirbudhnya, serpent of deep. 

Serpent implies movement in secrecy, solitude, Kundalini Shakti, 
released leads to supreme knowledge, enlightenment, and self 
awareness. Its properties and attributes are like Ardra as also part 
of Poorva Bhadra. It represents long distance journeys, renunciation 
of worldly possession and roaming like Fagirs. It also shows 
knowledge, learning and good counsel. 

Parts of body—sides of body, soles of feet. 

Profession—devotees who renounce the world, have insight, Tantras. 
27. Revati (1,2,3,4) 16° 40' to 30° Lord: Mercury 

Revati Pisces (16° 40 to 30°) Lord Mercury 

Popular, heroic, perfect limbs, rich, deep learning. 

Symbol — fish, drunt used for marching Deity Pushvan - is keeper 
of cows and gods, deals with animal husbandry, protection and 
nourishment of dependents, foster father etc. of safe travel. 
Nourishment, excellence and material wealth and enjoyment good 
host, dependable friend, socialite, 

Revati, (Pisces in 4th house, Moon in Revati indicate two mothers, 
especially if afflicted by Saturn. 

Parts of body — Abdomen, groin, ankles, pediatric diseases. 
Profession — People who have to do with keeping time, watches, 
and something to do with roads, travellers. 

Sex of the Nakshatras 

This is used for determining sex of the child, by seeing in which 
Nakshatras Dasha / Antardasha lords are located, as well as 5th 
lord and other planets aspecting 5th house for 1 st child, 7th house 
for 2nd child. 

Sometimes the characterises of a person is judged through these 
Nakshatras. Male born in male Nakshatras are good writers, 
speakers, doctors etc. 


Nakshatras 401 


Females born in male yoni show male characteristic being 
aggressive and arrogant. 

Males born in female Nakshatras have female tendencies, 
cannot take independent decisions and are happy to be subordinate. 
But they are good researchers. 

Female born in female Nakshatras are good administrative, doctors 
etc. 
Male bom in eunuch group are good fighters and_warriors. 


Male Female Eunuch 
(Punish Yoni) (Stree Yoni) (Napunsak Yoni) 
Ashvini Bharni Mrigshira 
Punarvasu Krittika Moola 
Pushya Rohini Satabhisha 
Hasta Ardra 
Anuradha Ashlesha 
Shravana Magha 
Purva Bhadra Purva Phalguni 
Uttara Bhadra Uttara Phalguni 

Chitra 

Swati 

Vishakha 

Jyeshta 


Purva Asadha 
Uttara Asadha 
Dhanishta 
Revati 


They have the independent nature, have Much initiative, are masculin 
in behaviour and can follow an independent career. They might be 
soft in heart, but of arrogant nature. 

Female Nakshatras 

Males born under this Nakshatras arc researchers, and usually 
hold subordinate positions in life. They feel comfortable to work 
under someone else especially females. 

Female born under these Nakshatras are good 
administrators, doctors, lecturers etc. They tend to boss over their 
husbands. 

Eunuch Nakshatras 
Males under this group could be warriors, surgeons, policemen, 


402 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


armed forces. 

Females born under these Nakshatras belong to mixed 
group. Persons born under male and female Nakshatras should be 
careful marrying persons born under eunuch sex Nakshatras. 


Result of Birth under different Yonis 

The birth under different Yonis of Nakshatras give different result. 
These are summarized as below: 

Birth under Male Nakshatras 

Males born under this Nakshatra are good doctors, writers, and 
learned in Shastras. They are generally successful in life. 
Females Born under Male Nakshatras 

They are good administrators, doctors, lecturers. There 
are viscidities in their married lives, primarily as they want to be 
the dominating partner. 

Napumsaka Yoni (Eunuch Sex) 

Males born under this sex are daring and have a big 
initiative. They could be soldiers or surgeons. 

Females bom under this Nakshatras are of mixed nature. 

Persons born under male or female yoni need adjustment 
with those bom under eunuch yoni. 

Characteristics of Nakshatras. 
1. Laghu Nakshatras (dynamic or swift): 

Ashvini, Pushya, Hasta and Abhijit. These, are suitable for 
travelling, fine art and trading, opening of shop, construction, 
education and medical treatment. 

2. Violent (fierce) 

These are Bharni, Magha, Puruphalguni, Purva Ashada 
and Purvabhadra. They are of aggressive nature and are good for 
surgical operations and aggressive purposes like starting of war 
etc. 

3. Mixed (Mishrit Nakshatra) 

Krittika and Vishakha. These are mixed Nakshatras and 
are good for fiery kinds of work and preparation of medicines. 
4. Fixed Nakshatras 

Rohini, Uttar Phalguni, Uttar Ashada and Uttarbhadra are 
good for laying foundations and works affixed nature like building 
of houses, house Parvesh. 


Nakshatras 403 


5 Gentle or Tender 

Mrigsira, Chitra, Anuradha and Revati 

These are chosen for auspicious ceremonies, learning 
music, dancing, travel, wearing jewellery etc. 

6. Movable 

Punarvasu, Swati, Shravan, Dhanishta, Satabhisha., 

They are good for anything connected with motion, 
machinery, journey etc. 

7. Pungent 

Ardra, Ashlesha, Jyeshta, Moola 

illegal deeds, cheating, Tantra, black magic. 

In Mundane Astrology Varahamihira in his monumental 
work Brihat Samhita has allocated following places in India to various 
Nakshatras. These are: 

Nakshatras, number Regions allocated 


and name 

27,1,2, Revati Himachal Pradesh, Ganges-Jamuna 
Delta, 

Ashvini & Bharani Delhi region 

3,4, 5, Krittika, Old undivided Punjab, which includes 
part of Pakistan and Haryana, 

Rohini, Mrigsira South Bihar, and Eastern 

6, 7, 8, Ardra, part of India 

Pushya, Mrigsira including Bengal and Assam 


9,10, 11, Ashlesha, 

Magha, Purvaphalguni Orissa region 

12, 13, 14, Uttara ph. Southern States, Sri Lanka 
Hasta, Chitra 


15, 16, 17, Swati Konkan region 
Vishakha 
18,19, 20, Jyeshta Maharashtra and Sindh 


Moola, Purva Ashada 

21, 22, 23, Uttara Ashada Gujrat, Rajasthan, Ujjain 

Shravan, Dhanishta 

24, 25, 26, Satabhish, Nepal, Bhutan, Kashmir, Laddakh 
Poorva Bhadra, 

Uttara Bhadra 


Chapter XVII 
VARGAS 


Zodiac consists of 360 degrees or 12 Rasis of 30 degrees each. 
Each Rasi or sign is further subdivided into number of divisions. 
These divisions are called Vargas. 

Vargas are basic tools available to Vedic astrologers for 
predictive purposes. The success of Hindu astrology over all other 
systems available in the world goes no small measures to this division 
of Rasi into Vargas. Basically Vargas are used to measure the 
strength of planets. As it is well known principle of Astrology that 
only strong planets are capable of giving good results. The weak 
planets not only fail to deliver results of their signification but also 
spoil the results of the Bhava where they are placed or the Bhavas 
over which they transit. To give a small example the 5th lord, 
represents, among other things, education. If this 5th lord of the 
birth horoscope keeps repeating in various Vargas in its own house, 
sign of exaltation or in friend's house the achievements in the 
educational field of the person concerned would be really high. 

KN Rao is the first astrologer in this century who has used 
Vargas with stunning effect for giving accurate predictions. His 
use of Saptamsa for birth of children has been highlighted in his 
book "Planets and Children." 

While Maharishi Parasara has divided the Rasi in 36 
(Shodasvargas), the Vargas that are commonly used are as follows: 
Vargas 
L Shadvargas (6 fold Division) 


1. Rasi D-1 5. Dwadasamsa D-12 
2. Hora D-2 6. Thrimsamsa D-30 
3. Drekkan D-3 7. Saptamsa D-7 

4. Navamsa D-9 III. Dashavarga (to fold Division) 
5. Dwadasamsa D-12 1. Rasi D-l 
6. Thrimsamsa D-30 2. Hora D-2 
IH Saptvargas (7 fold Division) 3. Drekkan D-3 

1. Rasi D-1 4. Navamsa D-9 

2. Hora D-2 5. Dwadasamsa D-12 
3. Drekkan D-3 6. Thrimsamsa D-30 
4. Navamsa D-9 7. Saptamsa D-7 


Vargas 405 


g Dasamsa D-10 7. Saptamsa D-7 
9 Shodasamsa D-16 8. Dasamsa D-10 
10. Shashtyamsa D-60 9. Shodasamsa D-16 
IV Shodasavarga 10. Shashtyamsa D-60 
(1g fold Division) 11. Chaturthamsa D-4 
1. Rasi D-1 12. Vimsamsa D-20 
2, Hora D-2 13. Chatur Vimsamsa D-24 
3. Drekkan D-3 14. Bhamsa D-27 
4. Navamsa D-9 15. Khavedamsa D-40 
5. Dwadasamsa D-12 16. Akshavedamsha D-45 


6. Thrimsamsa D-30 
Importance of Vargas 


1. 


In the golden age of Hindu Astrology the Vargas had a 
considerable importance. No predictions were given without 
consulting the relevant Varga charts. In this material age, 
because of hankering after money and paucity of time the 
modern so called astrologers rarely use Vargas. That is why 
the results are generally not good. The only Varga that is 
being considered is Navamsa. With the new scientific study 
of astrology introduced by K.N. Rao the use of Vargas is 
being revived with remarkable effect. 
Basically the Vargas are used to measure strength of the 
planet. A strong planet who is well placed in Dasvargas gives 
excellent results. In Navamsa if a planet repeats itself in the 
same Rasi, is known as Vargottam. A Vargottam planet gives 
more or less as good results as that given by an exalted planet. 
Various names have, been given to planets if they keep 
themselves repeating in their own signs/signs of exaltation in 
Dashavargas. 
In Dashavargas (ten Vargas) if a planet 
a) repeats itself twice is known as Parijat 
b) repeats itself thrice is known as Uttam 
c) repeats itself four times is known as Gopura 
d) repeats itself five times known as Simhasan 
e) repeats itself six times is known as Parvata 

repeats itself seven times is known as Devalokan 
g) repeats itself eight times is known as Brahmloka 
i) repeats itself nine times is known as Airavata 


406 


Dd 


11. 


12. 


13. 


14. 


15. 


Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


repeats itself ten times is known as Sreedham 

An Uttam 5th lord makes a person highly educated, a Gopura 
makes one learned and gives great name and fame, while 
Simhasan makes him a Minister or an advisor. 

Vargas gives us great help in studying various aspects of 
life, like wealth, marriage, children, profession etc. 

During his Dasha or Antardasha if a planet is free frorr 
malefic aspects in most of the Vargas it gives excellent 
results. 

If an exalted planet becomes debilitated in Shadvargas or is 
placed in enemy's house it does not give good results. 

In contrast to this if a debilitated planet becomes exalted or 
is placed in own/friend’s house improves its position. A 
Vargottam debilitated planet also gives good results. 

Lagna Vargottam and two or three planets Vargottam give 
riches and prosperity. 

The Lagna Navamsa lord assumes great importance in 
prediction. Its association aspect with other planets becomes 
auspicious in giving good results. 

If Lagna lord of Rasi and Navamsa are both strong and have 
benefic association, life becomes smooth and prosperous. 
Similarly Lagna lord of Rasi and Drekkan, if well placed, 
give a successful career. 

According to Phala Deepika if the benefic planets be 
endowed with strength in Shadvargas, the native would lead 
a happy and prosperous life. 

According to same book if the Ascendant falls in a malefic 
Rasi in the Shadvargas, the native will be short-lived and will 
be poor and miserable. This will be compensated to some 
extent if the dispositor of ascendant is strong. In such cases 
person will be happy, prosperous and of high status. 
According to Hora Ratnam planets in various malefic 
divisions in Sapt Varga produce a cruel person, while in 
benefic division they produce a kind hearted and benign 
person. 

The Vargottama planet in Navamsa acts like exalted planet 
and gives excellent results. 

A debilitated planet or placed in enemy Rasi in Vargas gives 


Vargas 407 


trouble some time during its Dasha. 

16. Ifa debilitated planet in Rasi chart becomes exalted or 
is placed in friend's house in Navamsa then he does not 
give bad results. 

17. An exalted planet does not give good results if it 
becomes debilitated in Navamsa. If there are many 
planets in Shadvargas who are aspected with own 
Navamsa Pati (lord) or in the Rasi of Navamsa Pati 
(ord) then their Dasha brings happiness and gives 
good results. Even such malefic planet do not prove to 
be troublesome. 

18. Ifin Shadvargas, in majority of cases Lagna/lagna lord 
has benefic combination then life becomes happy and 
prosperous otherwise opposite are the results. 

19. Ifthe Lagnesh of Rasi chart and that of Navamsa are 
strong and have benefic aspect then the life is successful 
and prestigious. 

20. Ifthe lagnesh of Rasi chart and that of Drekkan are in 
good condition and strong that is they are aspected by 
benefics etc. then the person has a successful career, 
creates goodwill and happiness all around. 

21. Ifa planet is debilitated in both Rasi and Navamsa then 
it becomes Vargottam and gives good results. 

22. Malefic planets in Rasi chart improve their results if 
they are well placed in Navamsa. 

In the light of above let us discuss various Divisional Charts. 
1. RASI 

This is the basic and most important chart, which is also known 
as birth horoscope. It is different from the word Rasi normally 
used in Hindu astrology which denotes the sign in which Moon is 
placed at birth. 

It should be clearly understood that this chart is of basic 
importance. What is not promised in this chart and the Dasha 
scheme cannot be given in other charts. 

If the children are denied in the birth chart and are not promised 
in the Dasha scheme, then howsoever, the other charts may be 
good, birth of children will not occur. So is the case with other 
facets of life. 


408 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


Example Horoscope (Mahatma Gandhi) 


Mahatma Gandhi 
2 Det 1869 


S35 an 


Lagna Sun Moon Mars Mercury 

11°56 16°55’ 28°15’ 20°23" 11°45 
Jupiter Venus Saturn Rahu Ketu 
28°08' 24°26’ 20°20’ 12°08' 12°08' 
Il HORA 


From Hora is judged wealth, prosperity and second house 
signification. 

It is the division of a sign in two parts of 15 degrees each 
in odd signs 1,3,5,7, 9and 11,the first 15 degrees go to the Hora of 
Sun, while the last 15 go to the hora of Moon. In even sign 2,4,6, 8, 
10 and 12 this process is reversed. The first 15 degrees go to 
Moon while last 15 degrees go to Sun. 

In the above horoscope Lagna is in odd sign with less than 
15 degrees, hence it is in the hora of Sun. The Sun is in even sign 
with more than 15 degrees therefore it will be placed in Sun's hora. 
Moon is more than 15 degrees and is in even sign therefore it will 
be in the hora of Sun. Mars is in even sign with more than 15 
degrees therefore it will be in hora of Moon. In the similar manner 
Mercury will be in the hora of Sun while Jupiter will be in the hora 
of Moon. Venus with more than 15 degrees is in odd 
sign, therefore it will be in the hora of Moon. Saturn with 
more than 15 degrees is in the even sign therefore it will be in 


Vargas 409 


the hora of Sun. Similarly Rahu and Ketu will be placed in the hora 
of Moon. The final picture will be as follows. 


Hora 

Moon: Mars, Jupiter, Venus, Rahu, Ketu 

Sun: Lagna, Sun, Moon, Mercury, Saturn 

Sun's Hora 

According to Varahamihira if malefics are placed in Solar Hora in 
odd signs one becomes famous, undertakes great work, possesses 
strength, wealth and great personal attraction. 

The male planets, Sun and Mars and Jupiter to some extent 
give good results in Sun's Hora. Some astrologers are of the opinion 
that Jupiter should be better placed in Moon’ Hora as in Sun's hora 
it gives diseases of liver and upper abdomen. Benefics and female 
planets give best results in Moon’ hora. Signification of a planet 
suffers ifit is in a wrong hora. 

1. Sun and Mars, if placed in odd Rasis and in Sun's hora, 
give much courage and strength. It gives success in politics 
and high rank and give plenty of initiative and drive. 

2. Atma Karka (the planet which has the highest longitude 
minus Rasis in the horoscope), give spiritual development 
in Sun's hora. 

3. Majority of planets in Sun's hora, and Lagna in Moon are 
good for financial prosperity. 

4. Planets in odd signs and Sun's hora are good for material 
things, they give much self confidence, but disturb mental 
peace. 

5. The planets here have the tendency to give riches through 
fair or foul means. 

6. Mercury in Sun's hora give break in education if other 
combinations are also there. 

7. Similarly Moon in Sun's hora disturbs peace of mind and 
gives emotional disturbance. Here aspects on Moon should 
also be taken into account while giving prediction. 

8. Venus in the hora of Sun may give weak sexual life and 
disturbed married life if other combinations are there. 

9. 5th lord and male planets in the hora of Sun give male 
children. 

10. The signification of a planet suffers if it is in a wrong hora. 


410 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


Note: It has been observed that in the horoscopes of notable 
Spiritualists Sun is in Moon’ hora while Moon is in Sun's 
hora. The significance of this will be discussed in greater 
detail in a separate paper. 


Hora of Moon 

According to Varahamihira if benefics join the lunar hora in even 
signs, the person becomes tender hearted, handsome, happy, popular, 
intelligent and polite speaker. 

1. Benefics and female planets give best results in Moon's 
hora. They make a person handsome, give attractive 
personality and make one popular with other sex. 

2. Benefics in Hora Lagna make one fortunate, wise, 
intelligent, jovial and give a magnetic personality. 

3. Even sign in Ascendant and hora of Moon give money 
with less labour and effort. 

4. Venus in Moon's Hora gives sweet behaviour, attractive 
personality and company of women of high society. Other 
combinations should also be checked. 

5. Mercury here gives good intellectual power and high 
academic education. 

6. Jupiter in even sign and hora of Moon give high rank and 
sometimes service in financial field. 

7. Sth lord in even sign in the hora of Moon give female children. 

8. It should be clearly understood that Sun, Jupiter and Mars 
are very powerful in the first half of odd sign, and Moon, 
Venus and Saturn give best results in 2nd half of even sign. 

3. Navamsa 

This is the most important Varga. Much of the credit of success of 
Hindu Astrology goes to Navamsa. This chart should be treated at 
par with birth horoscope and chart with Moon as Lagna No 
prediction should be given in any sphere of life, particularly on 
marriage without consulting this chart. This chart clearly shows 
the strength and weakness of planets. 

Navamsa is basically consulted for married life, temprea- 
ment, character of the spouse, timing of marriage, happiness and 
marital tensions. It also gives useful clue in practically all spheres 
of life. Each sign of 30 degrees of the zodiac has been divided into 


Vargas 411 


nine parts consisting of 3 degrees and 20 minutes. This has 
correlation with one fourth part of a Nakshatra consisting of 13 
degrees, 20 minutes, and is called a Pada constituting again 3 
degrees 20 minutes. (Nakshatras are 27 in number, and if we divide 
thezodiac of 360 degrees by 27, we get arc of one Nakshatra 
equal to 13°20'.) 

There are various methods of making a Navamsa chart. 
Here we give the easiest one, so that these could be easily 
memorized. 

Since each Navamsa consists of 3°20", first ascertain which 
Navamsa a planet or Lagna is by seeing its longitude. For example 
Ist Navamsa is from 0 to 3°20', second from 3°20’ to 6°40', 3rd 
from 6°40’ to 10°, 4th from 10° to 13°20' and so on. Remember 
3rd Navamsa finishes at 10°, 6th finishes at 20°, rest is easy. 

Example: Planet is having longitude of 22°40’. Since 6th 
finishes at 20° and one Navamsa is of 3°20’, planet is in the 7th 
Navamsa. Now start counting as follows: 

i) In movable Rasis (1,4, 7 and 10: Aries, Cancer, Libra and 
Capricorn) the counting starts from Rasi itself ie. where 
the planet is located. 

ii) In Fixed Rasis (2,5,8 and 11) the counting starts from 9th 
place from its location 

iii) In dual signs (3, 6, 9, 12) the counting starts from the 5th 
position. 

Example 

In Mahatma Gandhi's horoscope Lagna is 11 °56' in 4th Navamsa 
and is in movable Rasi therefore the counting will start from this 
Rasi (Libra). The 4th from Libra is Capricorn. Hence, Navamsa 
Lagna will be in Capricorn. Sun in dual Rasi Virgo is in the 6th 
Navamsa. In dual Rasi the counting starts from the sign 5th from 
it. 5th from Virgo where Sun is placed is Capricorn. 6th from 
Capricorn is Gemini. Sun will therefore be in Gemini Navamsa. 
Moon with 28° 15’ is in 9th Navamsa and is placed in movable Rasi 
Cancer The counting will therefore start from the Rasi itself. 9th 
from Cancer is Pisces. Moon will therefore be in Pisces in Navamsa 
chart. Mars with 26°23' is in 8th Navamsa in movable Rasi Libra. 
Therefore counting will start from Libra itself. 8th from Libra is 
Taurus. Therefore Mars will be in Taurus Navamsa. Similarly other 
planets should be placed in Navamsa chart in the manner explained 
above. 


412 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


The Navamsa chart would take the following shape. 


Moon Rete ¥en 
Mars 


Navamsg 


Mahatma 


II Method: First ascertain as above the number of Navamsa planet 
is in. Then with the help of chart shown, add number given in each 
Rasi. This will be the sign in which planet is located. 

Example: 


In Mahatma Gandhi's horoscope Lagna is in the 4th Navamsa in 
Libra. From the above chart we find that there are six points in 
Libra. Adding 4 and 6 we get number 10 which is Capricorn. Lagna 
will, therefore, be in Capricorn. Sun is in Virgo in the 6th Navamsa. 
Virgo has 9 points in the chart above. Adding 6 and 9 we get the 
number 15 or 3 which is sign Gemini. Sun will, therefore, be in 
Gemini Navamsa. Moon with 28° 15’ is in the 9th Navamsa in 
Cancer. Cancer has 3 points. Adding 9 and 3 we get the number 12 
which is sign Pisces. Moon will, therefore, be in Pisces in Navamsa 
chart. Mars is in Libra in the 8th Navamsa. Libra has 6 points 


Vargas 413 


therefore adding 8 and 6 we get figure 14 or 2 which is Taurus. 
Mars will, therefore, be in Taurus Navamsa. Similarly workout the 
position of other planets. 
Remember: The planets in the first Navamsa in movable Rasis, 
Sth in fixed Rasi, and 9th in dual are Vargottam. It means these are 
in the same Rasi in Navamsa as in the birth horoscope. 
Importance of Navamsa 
According to Phala Deepika if lord of the Ascendant is strong in 
Navamsa one attains all types of happiness. 

According to Hora Ratnam status about the lost article is 
to be obtained from Navamsa. 
Vargottama Navamsa 
The meaning of Vargottama planet has been explained. The first 
Navamsa of a movable sign, middle one of the fixed sign and last 
one of the dual sign are called Vargottam. According to Hora 
Ratnam one bom with such a Navamsa Ascendant will be the 
chief of his race, means he will be very prosperous. 

There are various variations of Vargottama planet. It can 
be Vargottama in 
Exaltation 
Mooltrikona sign 
Own sign 
Friendly sign 
Enemy sign 
Debilitation sign 
The power to do good decreases in descending order. The question 
now arises as to what type of results a Vargottam debilitated planets 
give. Opinion is divided here, but we are inclined to agree with 
those who believe that a Vargottam debilitated planet is capable of 
causing lot of mischief. 

1. In Vargas this is the most important chart. No prediction 
should be made without consulting Navamsa charts and it 
should be read as birth chart. South Indian astrologers attach 
great importance to this Varga and do not give any 
prediction without consulting this chart. 

The relative value allotted to Vargas in Shadvargas by classical 
writers are 

Rasi 6 

Hora 2 


AWRwne 


414 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


Drekkana 4 
Navamsa 5 
Dwadasamsa 2 
Trimsamsa 1 


According to this Navamsa is almost at par with the birth chart. 

2. It shows strength and weakness of planets. Debilitated 
planets may become exalted in Navamsa and hence may 
improve its position and vice a versa According to ancient 
texts a debilitated planet, if exalted in Navamsa, gives the 
result of an exalted planet. However, it will be more 
appropriate to say that its position is improved and does 
not give the bad results it is supposed to give. 

3. To see the strength of the horoscope, count the number of 
Raj Yogas in the birth horoscope. Compare these with those 
in Navamsa. If the number of Raj Yogas do not substantially 
decrease, the strength of the horoscope stays. But if the 
number is substantially decreased the horoscope does not 
remain as powerful as it is supposed to be. 

4. If lord of the ascendant is strong in Navamsa, this becomes 
a great asset, and the personality of the person becomes 
impressive and prosperity increases. According to Jatak 
Parijat appearance of the person can be determined 
according to the lord of ascendant in Navamsa or the 
strongest planet placed in the ascendant of the birth 
chart. Lord of the ascendant in Navamsa would in this case 
become very important if it is also strong in birth chart. 

5. In determining profession 
Normally profession is judged from lord of 10th in the birth 
horoscope, 10th from Lagna, Moon or Sun whichever is 
strongest. But this will give correct results in only 50 per 
cent of the cases. Still better results can be obtained from 
the lord of Navamsa of the 10th lord. 

64th Navamsa 

In medical astrology lord of the 64th Navamsa is evil and causes 
trouble in its Dasha/Antardasha. 

Calculation 

Place the degree of the Moon in the sign 8th from it, and determine 
the Navamsa of that sign. The lord of that Navamsa is lord of 64th 
Navamsa, and along with planets falling in Navamsa chart, act as 
malefic. 


Vargas 415 


In the usual Navamsa chart, the sign falling in the 4th house 

from Moon happens to be 64th Navamsa. 

Example: Mahatma Gandhi's horoscope 

In this horoscope Moon is in Cancer with 28° 15’.Place this degree 
28°15’ in the sign 8th from Moon i.e. in Aquarius, and determine its 
Navamsa. Since this is 9th Navamsa in a fixed sign (Aquarius), in 
Navamsa Chart it would be placed in Pisces. (Counting would 
start from 9th from Aquarius which is Libra. 9th from Libra is 
Gemini). If we see the Navamsa chart we find that 4th from Moon 
is Gemini. The Lord of Gemini is Mercury, which is lord of 64th 
Navamsa and hence evil. 

7, Navamsa and Marriage 

Navamsa chart is utilized in timing of marriage, j udging the quality 
of married life, looks and behavior of partner, character," mental 
and physical characteristics of spouse, matching of horoscopes, 
divorce death and separation. 

TI) Happiness in Marriage 

importance of Navamsa Lagna and 7th lord of birth chart. Married 
life is happy if Navamsa Lagna is exalted, is in its own sign and is 
aspected/ conjunct with benefics. It is still better if 7th house/ 7th 
lord of Navamsa chart is also studied. 

Sun Moon opposition in 1/7 axis means continuance 
bickering. Saturn, lord of scarcity in 12 mean denial of beds/sexual 
pleasures. 

Looks and behavior of wife/husband 
See the condition of Lagna/lord in Navamsa and planets it is with, 
if it is with Moon wife is beautiful and vivacious. 

i) With Venus beautiful and artistic. 

it) With Mercury knowledgeable and witty. 

iti) With Jupiter religious and pure type. 
Sun gives haughty, Saturn mean, Mars aggressive and angry, Rahu/ 
Ketu unreliable, cheat and low minded spouse. 
Most of the astrologers use 7th in Navamsa Lagna to get description 
of husband ‘and wife, both mental as well as physical- Moon is 
mainly concerned with mental characteristics. 
Matching of Horoscopes 


Lagna or the Moon of the spouse matches with Rasi occupied by 
lagna/ Moon in the Navamsa of native. 


416 


Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


Moon In Navamsa 
In predictive astrology great importance is given to placement of 
Moon in Navamsa. Person bom with Moon in Navamsa of 


NAYRwONe 


8. 

9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 


Aries will be commander of army, and rich. 

Taurus will have a fat body 

Gemini — Leamed, writer and having good body. 
Cancer — will be of dark colour. 

Leo — rich and strong. 

Virgo — thin body and soft speech. 

Libra— popular with opposite sex, lovely eyes, favour from 
powerful men. 

Scorpio—defectivelimbs, wandering nature. 
Sagittarius — lean; liberal, religious and wealthy. 
Capricorn—dark colour, covetous with family. 
Aquarius — henpecked and hypocrite. 

Pisces — soft spoken, religious and blessed with sons. 


Prithuyasas, son of Varahamihira in his book Hora Sara has given 
the results of birth in different Navamsas which are as follows:- 


1. 


Zi 
3 


Aries, a person bom in Aries Navamsa will be mischievous 
thief, and of restless nature. 

In Taurus, intelligent happy and fat, having many daughters. 
In Gemini, beautiful appearance, well versed in many 
sciences, intelligent. 

In Cancer, irritable, rich, crooked body, fond of foreign 
travel. 

Leo—lives in solitary place, proud and thin waisted, weak 
teeth. 

Virgo—-liberal, lives in foreign land, generous in gifts, helpful, 
happy in early life, 

Libra—lean body, not very rich, few sons, hates his 
relations, TB 

Scotpio — intelligent, weak eyesight, cruel, sinful acts. 
Sagittarius—wealthy, good qualities, lazy, easily satisfied. 
Capricorn—fickle minded, cruel sensual pleasure. 
Aquarius — without mercy, deceitful, wandering, 
extravagant and miserable. 

Pisces — longing for other woman, gain through watery 
products, wealthy, many wives. 


Vargas 417 


4 Drekkan (D-3) or Decanates 

Each sign consists of 30 degrees, which is divided into three parts 
of 10 degrees each, 1 to 10 degrees are in the IstDrekkan, 10 to 
20 degrees in second and those which are from 20 to 30 degrees 
belong to third Drekkan. Planets/Lagna falling in the first Drekkan 
belong to sign itself, the second Drekkan are in the sign 5th from it 
and the third Drekkan is in the sign 9th from it. 

Example: Mahatma Gandhi's horoscope 

In this horoscope Lagna is of 11 °56', hence it is in the 2nd Drekkan 
and, therefore, it will belong to sign Sth from it. The sign 5th from 
Libra is Aquarius, therefore the Lagna of Drekkan would be 
Aquarius. Sun with 16°55’ is again in 2nd Drekkan. Therefore in 
Drekkan chart it will be in sign Sth from it which is Capricorn. 
Moon with 28° 15' is in 3rd Drekkan in sign Cancer. Therefore in 
Drekkan chart it will be placed in the sign 9th from it which is 
Pisces. Similarly other planets should be placed in Drekkan chart. 
In the case of Mahatma Gandhi the Drekkan chart would be as 


follows: 


According to Phala Deepika if lord of Drekkana of Ascendant is 
strong, person will derive all types of happiness and he will be 
"king". According to this if the rising Drekkan be in his own Varga, 
or associated with benefics or be in his own exaltation .or friendly 
house, the person will be endowed with good qualities, clever, long 
lived, merciful, wealthy, widely renown with all comforts. 

L__ The chart is seen for brothers and sisters and happiness 

derived from them. 


418 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


2. It also shows the number of sisters/brothers of the person 
concerned. 
3. According to Varahamihira in Brihat Jatak if Moon is in 
his own or friendly Drekkan the person will be handsome 
and virtuous. If the Moon is in other Drekkan person will 
get the characteristic of the lord of Drekkan. This is the 
opinion also of Phala Deepika. according to which person 
will be handsome as well as rich. 
4. If the Moon is in serpent Drekkan the person will be 
vindictive and excitable. The serpent Drekkans are Cancer 
II and II Scorpio I and II Pisces II If Moon is in armed 
Drekkana person is fond of killing or murdering. If the 
Moon is in bird Drekkan, person is fond of travelling. The 
definition of these Drekkana is given below. 
5. Nature of death is ascertained through 22nd Drekkan. 
The lord of 22nd Drekkan is death inflicting. Its lord during 
its Dasha, if other factors corroborate, can be fatal or can 
give serious health problems. 
6. Malefics in rising Drekkan and trines If Saturn is in 
the rising Drekkan and malefics are in other Trikonas, 5th 
and 9th places, it indicates a diseased body. Mars in place 
of Saturn in rising Drekkan denotes death, while Sun in 
such a situation indicates disease, deformity or death. Use 
of Drekkan is also made to locate nature of disease”. 
Saravalli. 
How to Calculate 22nd Drekkan 
In the Rasi chart place the degrees of Lagna in the sign 8th from it. 
Ascertain its Drekkan in the normal way. The lord of the sign 
where this Drekkan falls is lord of 22nd Drekkan. In the normal 
Drekkan chart the lord of 8th house is lord of 22nd Drekkan. 
The ascendant is of 11 °5 6' of sign Libra. Place these degrees in 
8th sign from Lagna which is Taurus. Count from Taurus, since it 
is in the 2nd Drekkan, the Drekkan would fall in the sign 5th from 
it or in Virgo. If we see the Drekkan chart of Mahatma Gandhi we 
find that in this chart the 8th sign from Lagna is Virgo. The lord of 
Virgo is lord of 22nd Drekkan and hence is evil. 

(In the normal Drekkan chart lord of 8th is lord of 22nd 
Drekkan.) 

In all those cases where violent death has occurred 
involvement of Saturn, Mars Rahu Ketu would be there on 22nd 


Vargas 419 


drekkan or Lagna of Drekkan chart would be afflicted with these 


planets. 

In the case of violent death of Mahatma Gandhi there is 
aspect of Saturn/Mars on 22nd Drekkan (8th house Drekkan chart). 
4. Sex of Younger Brother 
If third house in Drekkan is a male sign and is occupied/ aspected 
by male planets and Mars is also strong a younger brother is born. 
5. Auspicious moments to start journey 
Journey should not be made in Ayudh Drekkan as its effects would 
be defeat, litigation and loss. This rale can also be applied to sports 
teams embarking on ajourney to participate in world sports like 
test matches etc. 

Ayudh_Drekkans _are 


Aries I & HJ Gemini II & Il Leo I, I, & Il 
Libra Tl Sagittarius I & III Virgo II 


Aquarius I, ll & II 


Journey in Sarpa Drekkan or Nigadh Drekkan leads to arrest 
SARPA DREKKAN are :- 


Cancer II, & II Drekkan Scorpio I & II Pisces IIL 


6. Balarishta (death in childhood) 

Malefic Drekkans rising in Lagna, associated or aspected by 
malefics cause death in childhood. 

Malefic Drekkans are 

a) Cancer II and III, Scorpio I, & II Pisces III 

b) Pasha Drekkan Taurus, Leo, Aquarius Ist Drekkan 

c) Libra If & I Drekkan Cancer I& last 

7. Relation with brother 
Examine 3rd house of Drekkan 

i) — Malefic planets here are not good for happy relation with 
brothers. 

ii) Lord of third in the Drekkan chart should be friendly with 
lord of Lagna of Birth Chart to ensure smooth relations 
with brothers. 

8. Lost articles and recognition of thieves 
Varahamihira and his famous son Prithuyasus make use of Drekkan 
to recover lost articles, description of thieves, and location of their 


420 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


direction. 

9. Distinguished Children 

"Benefic Drekkans, occupied and aspected by benefics give 
eminently successful, happy, good and distinguished children.” Jatak 
Parijat St 112 to 116. 

10. Liberal Interpretation of Slokas 

Varahamihira describes the first Drekkan of Sagittarius as ‘Face 
of a man with body of a horse holding a big bow.’ This could be 
interpreted to mean a person of tremendous energy on the move 
always in execution of his plans. Experience has shown that persons 
bom in first Drekkan of Sagittarius have these qualities to a great 
extent. 

Profession 

Brihat Jatak in Adhyaya 23, Sloka 6, "If Saturn aspects Drekkan 
sign occupied by Mercury while in Kendra from Lagna, native is 
an artist." 

Medical Astrology 

If rising Drekkan is in middle and Saturn is in the 6th normally 
there is a backache to native. 

Similar would be the result if in Navamsa both 6, and 8 are 
afflicted. Lagna of D-12 will show what kind disease a person 
suffers from, airy, watery, fiery or earthy. 

5. Chaturthamsa (D - 4) 

This chart is seen for fate, destiny or 'Bhagya', movable and 
immovable property and conveyance. Good use has been made of 
this chart in predicting construction or owning of houses. See my 
article in "Journal of Astrology”, July, 1999. 

Each sign of 300 is divided into 4 parts of 7°30". First part 
of planets/lagna falling from 1° to 7°30' falls in the sign itself. 2nd 
part from 7°30' to 15° fall in the sign 4th from it. The third part 15° 
to 22°30’ falls in the sign 7th from it. The fourth part 22°30’ to 30° 
degrees falls in the sign 10th from it. 

Example 

In the case of Mahatma Gandhi's horoscope Lagna is of 11°56' 
which is 2nd part hence the counting will start from the sign 4th from 
it. 4th from Libra is Capricorn. Hence the Lagna of Chaturthamsa 
would be Capricorn. Sun with 16°55’ is in 3rd part in Virgo, hence 
counting would start from the sign 7th from it. The 7th from Virgo is 
Pisces. In Chaturthamsa chart Sun would be placed in Pisces. 


Vargas All 


Similarly by placing other planets in the manner described above we 
will get the Chaturthamsa chart which is as follows 


Ketu Sut 
| 


Chaturthams4 
Mahatma 


6. Saptamsa (D-7) 

This divisional chart is seen for children, happiness from them, 
their sex, and other related matters. See K.N. Rao's Book 'Planets 
and Children’ for the effective use made of this chart. Each sign of 
30 degrees is divided into 7 parts of 4° 17’ each. In odd signs counting 
starts from the sign itself whereas in even signs counting starts 7th 
from the signs where the planet or Lagna falls. 

Example: Mahatma Gandhi's horoscope 


Yen 
Rabu 


Sapiimsa 
Mahatma 
Gariihj 


In case of horoscope of Mahatma Gandhi Lagna is in odd sign with 
11°56' that is 3rd part the sign 3rd from Libra is Sagittarius hence 
the Lagna of Saptamsa would be Sagittarius. The Sun with 16°55’, 
is in 4th part. Since Virgo where Sun is located is even sign the 
counting would start in the sign 7th from it. The 7th from Virgo is 


422 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


Pisces and 4th from Pisces is Gemini Sun would therefore be in 
Gemini in Saptamsa chart. Similarly the position of other planets 
should be worked out. The Saptamsa chart in case of Mahatma 
Gandhi would be as above. 

Ifin Saptamsa Lagna is in odd sign and is aspected/conjunct with 
benefic planets, son gives pleasure and happiness to father. 

If Lagna is even sign and is aspected by benefics etc. 
daughter is source of pleasure to father. 

If instead malefics aspect Lagna etc. opposite are the 
results. To see the Saptamsa chart you must study the condition of 
lagna lord and 5th lord. If they are strong and well placed that is 
aspected by benefics etc. then the children will give all type of 
pleasures to the parents and achieve name and status. 

According the Mansagri if in Lagna of Saptamsa, there is 
Moon or any other benefic planets then the person concerned strong 
(Prakarmi), famous (Pratapi), co-operative (Sahyogi) and is a 
warrior (Sahasi). He is friendly type and spreads happiness all 
around. 

If any planet is at the last saptamsha and is in own house 
and exalted then the person concern is fond of horse riding and 
does many dangerous things. This type of person lives away from 
friends and brothers. 

In the Dasha of exalted and benefic planets in Saptamsa 
the person proves to be lucky and receives the recognition from 
the king. 

If in the 3rd house of Saptamsa there is Sun, Mars or Jupiter 
then the person becomes rich by honest means. 

The exalted and strong planets in Saptamsa during their 
Dasha give money and happiness. In case they are debilitated or 
weak they give opposite results. 

7. Trimsamsa 
This chart is seen for 
i) miseries and happiness. 
ii) evils or Arishta’ 
iii) for study of character 
Each sign of 30 degrees is divided into 30 parts of 1 degree each. 
The degrees are allotted as follows :- 


Vargas 423 


Odd signs Even Signs 

Mars 5 Venus 5 
Satum 5 Mercury _ 7 
Jupiter 8 Jupiter 8 
Mercury 7 Saturn 5 
Venus 5 Mars P) 


A planet placed in odd sign at birth will continue being in odd sign in 
Trimsamsa. Similarly a planet placed in even sign at birth will 
continue being in even sign in Trimsamsa. 


Ket 
Sun Ven | 
— Rahu 


Trimsamse 


Mahatma 
Gandhi 


Example 

In the case Mahatama Gandhi Trimsamsa chart would be as above. 

According to Varahamihira 

Mars in his own Trimsamsa gives strength, prosperity, personal 

magnetism and initiative. 

With Saturn in its awn Trimsamsa becomes sick, loses his wife, is 

of loose character, has houses and servants and is unclean. 

Jupiter in his own Trimsamsa gives wealth, happiness, education, 

reputation and enjoyment. 

Mercury in its own Trimsamsa gives intelligence, education poetical 

ability, eloquence, art and enterprise. 

Venus in its own Trimsamsa gives charming personality, wealth, 

children, health and sex. 

Sun and Moon in Trimsamsa of Mars make one cruel and warlike. 

1. Ifthe Lagna or Moon is in the signs of Mars, Aries or 

Scorpio, then Trimsamsa in Jupiter is considered good and 
makes one virtuous. In signs of other planets it is not 
considered good. 


424 


Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


If the Lagna or Moon is in the signs of Venus, Taurus or 
Libra, then Trimsamsa in the sign of Venus makes one 
good and learned, in sign of Mercury expert in music, in 
sign of Jupiter noble. In other signs character is 
questionable. 


3. If the Lagna or Moon is in the signs of Mercury, Gemini or 


Saturn 


6. 


Virgo, then Trimsamsa in Mercury makes one noble, in 
signs of Jupiter, virtuous, in sign of Saturn impotent, in the 
signs of Venus adulterous and promiscuous. 


If the Lagna or Moon is in Cancer, then Trimsamsa in 
Mercury makes one fond of Music and Art, in Jupiter noble 
in Mars does what she likes. 


If the Lagna or Moon is in Leo then Trimsamsa in Mercury 
makes one masculine and in Jupiter noble. 


(Adulterous) 


If the Lagna or Moon is in Sagittarius, or Pisces then 
Trimsamsa in Mercury makes one fond of Music and Art, 
in Jupiter noble, in Venus immoral. 


If the Lagna or Moon is in the signs of Saturn, Capricorn 
or Aquarius then Trimsamsa in Jupiter gives a loving wife. 


According to Varahamihira in case of females if birth or 
Moon falls in the house of Mars and occupies the Trimsamsa 
of Mars. Saturn, Mercury or Venus, the girl will be immoral, 
dancing woman, double hearted or sinful respectively. 


9. Again, according to Varahamihira if birth or Moon falls in 


signs of Venus and occupies the signs of Mars she becomes 
immoral, in Saturn she marries a second husband while 
the first is living (Punarbhu) 


8. Dwadasamsa (D-12) 


Each sign of 30 degrees is divided into 12 parts of 2°30' each. The 
counting starts from the sign itself where the planet is located. 


Vargas 425 


Example 


Ven 
Sal 


Dwadusomsa 
Muhatma 
Gandhj 


In the case of Mahatma Gandhi's Dwadasamsa chart would be as 
above 
This chart is studied to know about 

i) The age of parents 

ii) Their social and financial standing 

iii) The amount of happiness one can derive from the parents. 

iv) To study higher consciousness and provides a link between 
the past and future lives. 

How to Study this Chart 
See the condition of Lagna, Lagna lord, 4th house/lord, 9th house/ 
lord. If the Lagna has benefic association and aspects, one is going 
to derive all types of pleasures from the parents. 

In addition to this study the Dwadasamsa chart along with 
chart. If the Lagna of the Dwadasamsa chart is in birth chart in 

i)  Lagna - it is good for health, wealth and prosperity of 
parents. 

ii) Its placement in 6, 8 and 12 of birth chart show that one is 
not going to derive any benefit from father. Same would 
be the condition if this planet is debilitated, combust or 
associated with malefics. 

ii) Ifit is exalted, in its own house, associated with benefic 
planets, it is lucky both for parents as well as the individual 
concerned and all help and happiness from parents would 
be forthcoming. 


426 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


9. Dasamsa (D-10) 
This is an important chart for the study of profession, achievement 
in career, trend of destiny, honour and success in life, It is easy to 
see with this chart extent of rise and pitfalls in career. 

Each sign of 30 degrees is divided in 10 parts of 3° each. 
In odd signs counting starts from the sign itself. In even signs the 
counting is done from the 9th house from where the planet is posited. 
_ Example 


Ven 
harp 


Mahatmiz 
Gandhi 


In the case of Mahatma Gandhi's Dasamsa chart would be as 
above. 

10.Shodasamsa (D- 16) 

It deals with conveyances and general happiness. K.N. Rao has 
used this chart extensively for study of matters relating to vehicles 
and accidents. 

Each sign of 30 degrees is divided into 16 parts of 1°52'30' 
each. According to Maharishi Parasara the counting in movable 
signs should start from Aries, in fixed signs from Leo and in dual 
signs from Sagittarius. 

11. Vimsamsa 

The chart is seen for worship or Upasana, and benefits person is 
going to derive from it. It reveals lot of information about meditation, 
spiritual inclination and religious activity. 

Each sign of 30 degrees is divided into 20 parts of 1°30” 
each. For a planet posited in a movable sign counting starts from 
Aries, in fixed signs from Sagittarius and in dual sign from Leo. 


Vargas 427 


Example 
In case of Mahatma Gandhi Vimshamsa chart is as follows 


Bis wanes —— 


Kahu Ketu 
5 
th 


12. Chaturvimshamsa 
This divisional chart is seen for education, learning and academic 
achievements. 

Each sign of 30 degrees is divided into 24 parts of 1° 15' 
each. In odd signs counting starts from Leo, and in even sign from 
Cancer. 

Example: 

Jupiter is in sign Cancer at 3°30' i.e. in the 3rd part. As Jupiter is in 
even sign counting would start from Cancer. 3rd from Cancer is 
Virgo, so Jupiter in Chaturvimshamsa would be in Virgo. 


Yimshamsa 


Mahatma 


HOW TO READ THE CHART 

For education we normally see the 4th and the 5th houses. See the 
condition of these houses/lords not only in birth chart but also in 
Chaturvimshamsa chart. If they are also well placed in this Varga 
educational achievements will be high. See also the condition of 
the Dasha lord during the age when education career is being 
pursued. It will give you good idea regarding progress of education. 
Their placement in 6,8 or 12 or aspect by malefics would show 
interruption in education. 

13. Saptvimshamsa (D-27) 

Also known as Bhamsa is seen for one's general strength and 
weaknesses including physical strength and weakness. Each sign 
of 30 is divided into 27 parts of 1 °6'40" each. 


428 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


For planets posited in fiery signs counting starts from Aries, 
for earthy signs from Cancer, for airy signs from Libra and from 
watery signs from Capricorn. 

14, Khavedamsa (D-40) 

Also known as Chatvarimshamsa is seen for studying the auspicious 
and inauspicious effects of horoscope on the native. Each sign of 
30 degrees is divided into 40 parts of 0° 45' each. 

For odd signs counting starts from Aries and even signs 
from Libra. Suppose Moon is in Capricom at 3° 25'. It is then in 
the 5th part. As Scorpio is an even sign the counting would start 
from Libra. 5th from Libra is Aquarius where Moon will be placed 
in Khavedamsa chart. 

15. Akshvedamsa (D_ -45) ; 
This chart is seen for character and conduct of the native and also 
for the general auspicious and inauspicious effects. Each sign of 
30 degrees is divided into 45 parts of 0° 40' each. Counting starts 
from Aries in movable signs, from Leo in fixed signs and Sagittarius 
from dual signs. Suppose Mercury is in Cancer 11 °50' degrees in 
18th division. Cancer is movable sign, therefore counting would 
start from Aries. The 18th from Aries is Virgo where Mercury 
would be in Akshvedamsa chart. : 
16. Shashtiamsa Chart (D-60) 
Is seen for general auspiciousness and inauspicious indications. 
Each sign of 30 degrees is divided into 60 parts of 0°30 each. 
Ignore the sign position of the planet. Multiply the longitude of the 
planet by 2. Ignore minutes and divide the degrees by 12. Add 1 to 
remainder. The resultant figure may be counted from the sign where 
planet is posited. 
Example 
Suppose Saturn is in Aries at 13° 10’. Multiply by 2 and we get 
26°20". Ignore the minutes and divide the degrees by 12, we get 2 
as remainder Add 1 to this and we get 3. Counting 3 from ARIES, 
the sign where Saturn is located we get Gemini, the sign in which 
Saturn will be placed in Shashtiamsa. Its lord is Mercury. 

Maharishi Parasara has given the names of Shashtiamsas 
which are read in direct order in case of odd signs and in reverse 
order in case of even signs. Presiding deities are benefic or malefic 
as their name suggest. Each Shashtiamsa is of 0° 30'. The names 
of presiding deities are: 


Vargas 429 


Sr.No. Name of the Deity Meaning Benefic/malefic 
1. Ghora Awful malefic 
2. Rakshasa Demon malefic 
3, Deva Divine benefic 
4. Kubera God of wealth benefic 
5. Yaksha Divine singer benefic 
6. Kinnara Deformed man malefic 
7. Bhrashta Corrupted malefic 
8. Kulghana Ruiner of family malefic 
9, Garala Poison malefic 
10. Vahni or Agni Fire malefic 
11. Maya Illusion malefic 
12. Purishaka Dirty malefic 
13. Apampathi Rain God benefic 
14. Marina Wind god benefic 
15. +Kaala Time- death god 
16. Sarpa Snake 
17. Amrita Nectar benefic 
18. Indu Moon benefic 
19, Mridu Soft benefic 
20. Komal Tender benefic 
21. Herambha Ganesh benefic 
22, Brahma Universal father benefic 
23. Vishnu Vishnu-God benefic 
24 Maheshwara Shiva benefic 
25. Ardra Moist benefic 
26. Kalinasha Destroyer of strife benefic 
27. Kshitesba Ruler of earth benefic 
28 Kamalkara Bouquet of lotuses benefic 
29. Gulika Son of Saturn malefic 
30. = Mrityu Death malefic 
31. Davagni Forest fire malefic 
32. Yama Death malefic 
33. Kantaka Thorn malefic 
34, Sudha Nectar benefic 


430 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 
Sr.No. Name of the Deity Meaning Benefie/malefic 
35. Poorna Chandra Full Moon benefic 
36. Vishadhagadha Destroyed by poison malefic 
37. Vamsha Kashya Descending malefic 
38. Utpaata Calamity malefic 
39, Saumaya Handsome benefic 
40. Sheetal Cold malefic 
41, Karala Damshata Frightful teeth malefic 
42. Chandarmukhi Woman beautiful benefic 
43. Praveena Clever benefic 
44, Kala Pavaka Destructive fire malefic 
45, Dandayudha Staff of ascetic benefic 
46. Nirmala Pure benefic 
47. Kroora Without pity malefic 
48. Ati Sheetal Very cold malefic 
49. Payodhi Ocean benefic 
50. Brahmana Wandering benefic 
51. Chandra Rekha Streak of Moon benefic 
52. Dandayudha Same as 45 above 
53. Nirmala Same as 46 above 
54. Saumaya Same as 39 above 
55. Krrora Same as 47 above 
56. Atiseetal Same as 48 above 
57. Amrita Same as 17 above 
38. Payodhi Same as 49 above 
59. Brahmana Same as 50 above 


60. Indu or Chandra rekha Same as 51 above 


The above Division of Shashtiamsa give us a good aid in prediction. 
For example if 2nd or 11 lord is Jupiter and is in the Shashtiamsha 
of Kubera, one becomes very wealthy. Ifthe 7th lord is a benefic 
planet in the shashtiamsa of Nirmal, wife is pure. Similarly 7th lord 
as Venus in the Shashtiamsa of Chandramukhi makes her extremely 
beautiful Similarly iflord of a house is in malefic shashtiamsa, the 
signification of the house suffers. 


Chapter XIX 
Yogas and Planetary Combinations 


What are Yogas 
Yogas in Astrology mean planetary combinations, which may give 
good or bad results depending upon the nature, condition and strength 
of the planets. 
Raj Yogas 
The Raj Yogas are the planetary combinations that give rulership, 
ministership, high rank and status. The planets/houses that are 
involved are Lagna/lagna lord, the Sun, 10th house and its lord, 7th 
house as itis 10th from 10th. According to Sarvarth Chintamani, 
2nd house should also be considered for bestowel of Raj Yoga, as 
this is 5th from 10th. 

A native becomes ruler, Minister, Prime-Minister and 
President, if above houses and lords are strong. 

Lagna lord strong and aspecting Lagna is a major Raj 
Yoga. Even a debilitated planet aspecting Lagna gives Raj Yoga. 

According to Parasara even if a single planet aspects the 
natal Ascendant, or Hora Lagna or Ghatika Lagna, the native 
becomes a king. 
Importance of Shadvargas 

If the ‘Shadvargas" (Rasi, Navamsa, Hora, Drekkan, 
Trimsamsa and Dwadasamsa) of the Ascendant is occupied or 
aspected by one and the same planet, a Raj Yoga is formed. 
Raj Yogas: 

According to K.N. Rao, Raj Yogas of highest type are 
nearly 25: 

i) When majority of these are present in the horoscope 
one rises to dizzy heights. 

ii) If some of these are present rise is to middle level. 

iii) If these are few rise in life is ordinary. 

Strength of Yogas and proper Dashas are also important. 

Dasha: Any planet connected with 10 house/ lord or 7 
house/ lord gives honour and position provided it is well placed. 
Prominent Raj Yogas 

1. Lords of 2 and 5 in 2, or 5, or in 9 and 10. 
2. Lord of 2, and 11 in 10. 
3. Rahu in 4,5,10, and 11. Gn his Dasha) 


432 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


4. Venus and Moon in three. 
5. Jupiter as lord of 9 in eight. 
6. Conjunction or aspect of lords of 9, and 8.- in period of 
8th lord. 
7. Neech Bhanga Raj Yogas. 
KENDRA TRIKONA RELATIONSHIP 

According to Parasara the Kendras or angles are known as 
Vishnu Sthan' (house of Lord Vishnu), while Trikonas are called 
‘Lakshmi Sthans' or (houses of Goddess Lakshmi). If lord of 
Kendras establish relationship with a Trikona lord, it leads to Raj 
Yoga of a very high order. 

Lakshmi is the consort of Lord Vishnu the supreme god. Any 
relation between Trikona and Kendra lords has the blessings of 
both Sri Vishnu and Lakshmi and is very auspicious throughout the 
life of a person. 

Following are the conditions under which these connections 
between Trikona and Kendras are established. 

1. Exchange between the two. 2. Mutual aspect. 3. Conjunction 
In addition to this, though to a lessor degree, is the relation if the 
two are in their own houses. 

These relations may also be checked from Navamsa also. 

Most important Raj Yoga is the connection of lords of 9 and 

10. This is also known as Dharam Karam Adhipati Yoga. 10this 
the most powerful Kendra and 9th is the most powerful Trikona. 
Uttar Kalamnita highly praises this Yoga. 

Kendra Trikona combination is so important that it overcomes 
slight blemish of lordship of 3, 6, 8. 

Relation of 4 and 5 lords makes one Minister or advisor to an 
institution and is also prosperity giving Yoga. 

The following Raj Yogas are taken from Uttarkalamitra. 

Relation between 9th and 10th lords from 10th house from 
Lagna. This means relations between 6 and 7 houses. 

Relation between 9th and 10th lords from 9th house from 
Lagna. This means relations between 5 and 6 houses. 

Relation between 9th and 10 lords from Sun. 

Relation of lord of Rasi where Moon is located to Lagna and 
Navamsa lord of Moon. 

‘Relation of Putrakarka and 5 lord - intelligent and wealthy’ - 
Parasara 


Yogas and Planetary Combinations 433 


Atma Karka in Kendra Trikona from Lagna, Moon Lagna, 
Moon sign lord, prosperous, popular, and wealthy. 


1 


Note: 


10. 


According to Parasara relationship between Atmakarka 
planet and Lagna is one the best Raj Yoga. If placed in 
one Rasi it makes a man very fortunate. 

Definition of Atma Karka .The natural Atma Karka or 
significator of soul is Sun. However, the term used here 
is as per Jaimini Astrology. Here Atma Karka is the 
planet which has attained the highest longitude in the 
horoscope. To measure longitude we omitrasi in which 
planets are placed. The 5th planet in descendant order 
in longitude from Atma Karka is known as Putrakarka. 
According to Dr. B .R. Raman Navamsa Lagna and Atma 
Karka in the same sign cause a powerful Raj Yoga. 
Three planets in exaltation make one very learned; three 
in own house a Minister; three debilitated an idiot, three 
exalted in Rasi but occupying evil Navamsa make one 
unhappy and wicked.’ — Chandrakala Nadi 

(The Tamil Jatakalankara says that one with 3 debilitated 
planets becomes a slave/ servant of a famous person.) 
If Atmakarka is in a benefic Rasi / Navamsa the native 
will be wealthy. If there are benefics in Karkamsa 
Lagna, he will be king-Parasara. 

Arudha Lagna and 'Darapad' in mutual Kendras or 
Trikonas or 3/11 from each other. The definition of these 
Karkas which are used by Jaimini is given at the end of 
this chapter. 

If two or all of Bhava Lagna, Hora Lagna, Ghatika 
Lagna are aspected by exalted planets. 

If the above three ascendants, their Drekkans and 
Navamsas or the above Lagnas and their Navamsas or 
Drekkans are aspected by a planet. 

Arudha Pada benefic sign with Moon while Jupiter in 
2nd house. 

Even one among the 6, 80r 121ords in debilitation aspect 
the ascendant there will be a Raj Yoga. 

Lord of 2nd, 4th, 10th or 11th aspect the ascendant, 
while Venus aspect the 11th from Arudha Lagna as 
Arudha Lagna is occupied by a benefic. 


434 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


Neech Bhanga Raj Yogas 

Neech means debilitated, Bhanga means breaking. When a Yoga 
neutralises the effect of a debilitated planet it is known as Neech 
Bhanga Raj Yoga. This becomes effective under following 


conditions. 


1. 


If the Rasi of the lord where the debilitated planet is 
located (this is known as the dispositor of the 
debilitated planet), is exalted in the horoscope, it gives 
rise to 'Neech Bhanga’ Raj Yoga. 

Example: Jupiter gets debilitated in Capricorn Rasi. 
If in a horoscope it is debilitated, i.e. is in Capricorn, 
then if in that horoscope lord of Capricorn i.e. Saturn 
is exalted, it gives rise to Neech Bhanga Raj Yoga. 
If a debilitated planet is in conjunction with another 
planet who is exalted, the debilitation gets cancelled. 
Example Venus as debilitated planet is placed in 
Virgo, but it is with Mercury who is exalted there - 
the debilitation gets cancelled. Same would be the 
position if Saturn as debilitated planet is with Sun in 
Aries, or Sun in Libra is with Saturn. 

According to 'Kumar Swamyan’, a celebrated book 
on astrology in Tamil, this is only cancelled if the 
planets are in Kendra from Moon. 


If dispositor of the planet (lord of the sign), where 
debilitated planet is located is in its own sign, even 
then the debilitation is cancelled. 

According to Phala Deepika if the debilitated planet 
is aspected by the lord of the house in which it is 
located, even then the debilitation is cancelled. 
The lord of the sign in which a planet is debilitated 
should be in Kendra to Moon or Lagna. 


Results: Neech Bhanga Raj Yoga gives as good a 
result as an exalted planet, but not without some 
kind of initial trouble or scandal. 


*Karkamsa Lagna is the Rasi in which Atma Karka is placed in Navarusn 
e 


Yogas and Planetary Combinations 435 


Vipreet Raj Yogas 
These Raj Yogas are formed if the lord of 6,8 or 12 house form a 
relation with each other in houses 6,8 or 12 only. 
1. Harsha Yoga 
According to Phala Deepika if the 6th house is occupied 
or aspected by malefics and the lord of 6th is in Dusthana 
(6th, 8th or 12th). Harsha Yoga is produced. This will give 
happiness, enjoyment, good fortune and a strong 
constitution, will overcome enemies and will be afraid to 
commit sinful acts. He will befriend of illustrious people. 
He will have wealth, splendour, fame friends and sons. 
2. Sarala Yoga 
If the lord of the 8th house is placed in the 6th, the 8th or 
the 12th, the Yoga caused is known as Sarala Yoga. Person 
will be long lived, resolute, without fear, will be learned, 
will have children and riches. He will achieve success in 
all his undertakings, will overcome his foes and be pure 
and widely celebrated. 
3. Vimala Yoga 
If the lord of. 12th be in a Dusthana and be aspected by or 
associated with malefics, the Yoga so produced is Vimala 
Yoga. The person bom in this Yoga will spend little and 
save much money. He will be good to everybody, he will 
be happy and independent and will have respectable 
profession or conduct and will be well known. 
Debilitated lords of 3, 6, 8 or 12. 
According to K.N. Rao, lords of houses 3, 6, 8 or 12, if debilitated, 
give rise to Raj Yogas. 
The other Raj Yogas are 
(i) Jupiter in Lagna, Mercury in any Kendra aspected by 
Lagna lord. 
(ii) Jupiter in 5, 7 or 9 aspected by Lagna lord-person is as 
2% lucky as aking. 
(ui) Saturn exalted or in any Kona house aspected by 10th 
lord. 


1. Rasi Parivartan Yoga 

This is a very powerful Raj Yoga. It occurs when two planets change 
Rasis with each other. It does not matter whether the planets aspect 
each other or not. The interchange between good houses give 
excellent results. The interchange between 3, 6, 8 and 12 houses 


436 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


amongst themselves is also good. But interchange between good 
houses and Dusthans may cause problems. 


Example 
Indica Gandhi 
1Y Sav, 1907 

[ict] PM 


Allahabad 


Example — Horoscope of Indira Gandhi. 

This horoscope has three 'Rasi Parivartan' Yogas. Lagna lord Moon 
exchanges Rasi with 7th lord Saturn. Jupiter exchanges Rasi with 
Venus. Third 'Rasi Parivartan’ is between Sun and Mars. Sun is in 
Mars Rasi and Mar's is in Sun's Rasi. These are the major Raj 
Yogas in Mrs. Gandhi's horoscope which made her so great. 

'Nakshatra Parivartan' between two planets. This is also a 
major Raj Yoga and occurs in the horoscopes of noble laureates. 
Here Nakshatras exchange position. 


Mahabhagya Yoga 
This is a very powerful Raj Yoga as the name Mahayoga ‘Great 
fortune’ suggests. It gives wealth, power, prosperity, good health, 
and important position in society. 
The conditions for this Yoga are : 
Female Horoscope 
L Birth during night time 
2.  Lagna, Sun and Moon in even signs. See the horoscope 
of Mrs. Indira Gandhi. Birth is at night and Lagna & 
Moon are in even signs. 


Male Horoscope, conditions are 
1. Birth during day time. 
2. Lagna, Moon and Sun in odd signs. See the horoscope of 


Yogas and Planetary Combinations 437 


_Mr. Morarji Desai 


Example: 
Morarji Desai 
79 Feb, 1896 


12:38 Pre 


10 
: Mars 
Ven Mer 


Maha Raj Yoga - Parasara 

If the Ascendant Lord and the 5th lord exchange their 
signs or if Atma Karka and Putra Karka are in the Ascendant, the 
5th Lord is in exaltation, own sign or own Navamsa in aspect to 
benefic, Maha Raj Yoga is produced. The native will be famous 
and happy. The exchange between the Ascendant lord and 5th lord 
gives a high powered Raj Yoga. 


ii) Atma Karka and Putrakarka can be together in the Ascendant, 
or the 5th house or in Karkamsa Lagna or they may be in their 
respective places in signs of exaltation, own sign or own Navamsa 
and being aspected by a benefic. 

Example: In the horoscope of Indira Gandhi Atma Karka is Saturn, 
while Putra Karka is Mercury. Saturn is in the Ascendant while 
Mercury is in the 5th house. Atma Karka Saturn is in its own 
Navamsa and Mercury is in the 10th from Karkamsa Lagna 
Other Raj Yogas as given by Parasara. 


1. Benefics in 2, 4 and 5 


According to Parasara, benefics in 2,4 and 5 counted from 
the Ascendant Lord or from Atmakarka sign makes one a king. 
Malefics in 3 and 6 give the same result. 


2. Lagna, 2nd and 4 are occupied by benefics, while malefics in 
3rd. 


438 


Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


Venus in Karkamsa or in the 5th therefrom or in the ascendant 
or in Arudha ascendant in aspect to or in association with 
Jupiter or Moon. 


Lagna lord and Atma Karka in ascendant, 5th or 7th in 
conjunction with or in aspect to a benefic. 


Lagna lord in its own house or being exalted aspects Lagna 
and 3, 6, and 8 occupied by debilitated planets. 


6, 8, and 12 lords debilitated, in enemy house or combust and 
ascendant lord in own sign, or exalted aspects Lagna. 


10th lord placed in its own house or in exaltation aspects the 
ascendant. Benefics in Kendras give same results. 


The Sth and 9th lords are akin to Ministers. If these planets 
aspect mutually each other or are together, a Raj Yoga is 
generated. One bom in royal family becomes a king. 


9 Exchange between lord of 4 and 10 and having aspect of 5th 


10. 
ll. 
12. 


13. 


and 9th lords. 
Lards of 5, 10th, 4th and the Lagna join the 9th. 
Lords of 4th or the 1 Oth join either the 5th lord or the 9th lord. 


Jupiter in the 9th house in its own sign or exalted and is either 
with 5th lord or with Venus. 


Birth during two and half Ghatis from Mid day or from 
midnight is auspicious Midnight and midday to be calculated 
from sunrise to sunset. 


Uttarkalamitra has two Yogas in this respect, viz. Koteeswara 
Yoga and Laksh Adhikari Yoga. According to this, birth within 
two Ghatis or 48 minutes as against 60 mentioned by Parasara, 
gives rise to birth of a king who will conquer his enemies and observe 
religious rites and be learned. If in addition an exalted planet is in 
the second house in aspect to another exalted planet, a Koteeswara 
is bom. If the aspecting planet is not exalted but is in its own house, 
a Lakshadheevra. or less powerful person is bom. 


Yogas and Planetary Combinations 439 


. Moon and Venus mutually in 3rd and 11 or in aspect to each 


other. 


. Moon Vargottam and full having aspect of 4 or more planets. 
. Lagna in Uttamamsa aspected by 4 or more planets. Aspect 


by four or more planets on Moon. 


. All benefics in Kendras while malefics in 3, 6 and 11. 


t Jaimini Yogas for High Ministerial Posts 

10th lord from Ascendant conjunct or aspected by dispositor 
of Amatyakarka or Amatyakarka itself. 

10th and 11th houses aspected by their own lords without any 
malefic aspect. 
Amatya Karka and its dispositor together-person has a great 
intelligence also. 
Amatya Karka strong, own house or exalted - sure to become 
King's Minister. 
Amatya Karka in Lagna, Sth or 9th or in Kendra from 
Ascendant. 
One becomes army chief if malefics are in 3 and 6 from 
Ascendant, Arudha Lagna or Atmakarka. 
Atma Karka in Kendra, in Trikona ,own house, or exalted 
and be in aspect to ninth lord. 
Moon sign lord as Atma Karka in the Ascendant along with a 
benefic. One becomes a Minister at an advanced age. 
Atmakarka in 5th, 9th 7th or 10th with a benefic - wealth 
through royal patronage. 


10. Atmakarka in the 9th house or Arudha of 9th house becomes 


11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 


Lagna. 

Atmakarka with a benefic and 11 th lord in 11. 
Exchange between 10 and Lagna. 

Venus and Moon 4th from Karkamsa Lagna. 


Ascendant lord or Atma Karka with 5th lord in Kendra or 
Trikona. 


II. Panch Mahapurush Yogas 
There are five kinds of Raj Yogas mentioned in Phala Deepika and 


440 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


Jatak Parijat which are called Panch Mahapurusha Yogas. These 
are formed when the planets Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus and 
Saturn, are in Kendra from Lagna or Moon in their own sign or 
signs of exaltation. Sun and Moon are excluded as their importance 
as Lagnas has been recognized. Their strength itself is an important 
factor in Predictive Astrology. Rahu Ketu do not count as these 
are shadowy planets. In these Yogas importance of planets in 
Kendras is emphasised where they become extremely powerful. 
On top of that if they have additional strength, being in their own 
houses or in exaltation signs they give excellent results. 

i) Ruchuka Yoga: 

This is formed when Mars is in Kendra from Lagna or Chandra 
Lagna, in its own sign or sign of exaltation. 

Result: Healthy, wealthy, fortunate, proficient in many 
branches of science. Knows secrets of Mantra-Shakti. Handsome 
to look at. Generous and kind. 

Strong physique, famous, well versed in ancient lores, 
conforming to tradition and custom, charitable, wealthy, long lived, 
leader of army. 

See horoscope of Dr. Radha Krishan ex-president of India. 
Mars is in its own sign in Kendra from Moon. 


ii) Bhadra Yoga: 
This is formed when Mercury is in Kendra from Lagna or Chandra 
Lagna in its own sign or sign of exaltation. 


Yogas and Planetary Combinations 441 


Result: Extremely strong and good physique. Rich, 
affectionate good to his friends and relatives. Person born with this 
Yoga is "strong, has a lion like face, well developed chest, and well 
proportioned limbs." 

lii) Hamsa Yoga: 
This is formed when Jupiter is in Kendra from Lagna or Chandra 
Lagna in its own house or exalted. 

Result: According to classical texts Hamsa Yoga makes a 
person king. He has a beautiful body and is extolled by the kings. 
He is of a religious nature and of a great moral fibre. He is a 
moralist and has high values in life. 

iv) Malviya Yoga: 
This is formed when Venus is in Kendra from Lagna or Chandra 
Lagna, in its own sign or is exalted. 

Result: Artistic, handsome, wealth, fond of good things of 
life, music acting and dance. 

v) Sassa Yoga: Sassa, Malvia & Ruchuka Yoga 


Sassa, Malvia d& 
Ruchuka Yoga 


This is formed when Satur is in Kendra from Lagna or Chandra 
Lagna in its own house of exaltations. 

Builds factory and has many workers under him. Wealthy, 
land lord and a king. Rich and wealthy. 
See horoscope of Sardar Patel. It has 3 Maha Punish Yogas. 
4, Jeeva Yoga: 

This is another offshoot of Gajkesari Yoga when Moon 
and Jupiter are in opposition 1/7 to each other. 


442 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


5. Bhaskar Yoga: 
If Mercury is placed in second or Moon is in 11thfrom Mercury 
and Jupiter is in the 9th from Moon, this Yoga is formed. 

Results: Highly learned, handsome, beautiful to look at, 
lovely voice, efficient and an important person in society. 
6. Indra Yoga: 
Mars in 3rd from Moon, and 7th from Saturn, and Jupiter 7th from 
Venus. Result: Rich and powerful. 
7, Marut Yoga: 
Jupiter in Trikona, 5/9 position from Venus, Moon in 5 from Jupiter, 
Sun in Kendra from Moon. 

Result: Learned, renowned speaker, famous and rich trader. 
8. Budha Yoga 
Jupiter associated with Lagna, Moon in Kendra from Jupiter, Rahu 
2nd from Moon. Sun and Mars 3rd from Moon. 

Result: Automobile engineer, powerful, rich, famous and 
learned. 
From Lagna 
i) Lagan Adhi Yoga or Chandra Adhi Yoga 
According to Varahamihira if benefics occupy the 6, 7 and 8th 
houses from Moon, the Yoga is known as Adhi Yoga. A person 
bom in this Yoga will become a general, a minister or a king, and 
will be in enjoyment of great pleasures and wealth, with subdued 
enemies, long life and free from disease and fear. 

Brihat Parasara Hora Shastra "Should the benefics be in 
6, 7 and 8 from Lagna devoid of conjunction /aspect of malefics, 
Lagan Adhi Yoga is produced making one good person, learned in 
Shastras and happy." It also speaks of benefics in 6, 7 and 8 from 
Moon causing this Yoga. 

These benefics, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus may be together 
in one sign, or distributed in two, or three signs, in any way. 

Vaidyanath restricts Lagan Adhi Yoga to the condition that 
6, 7, and 8 should not be occupied or aspected by any malefic nor 
should a malefic occupy the 4th the house of happiness. 

It may be noted that 6,7, and 8th are the 9th, 10th, and 11th 
from 10th (all indicative of wealth and reputation). This Yoga 
guarantees commanding position for the native. 


Yogas and Planetary Combinations 443 


Adhi Yoga is a Raj Yoga. For it to be effective, it is desirable, 
that three benefics are strong and well placed ,not combust, eclipsed 
or debilitated and not combined with malefics. And Moon should 
be strong and full. 

Though it is a simple Yoga, Adhi Yoga is all the same a 
great Yoga, giving wealth position and power. 

Strength of 6 and 8 gives success in medical profession. 

In Chandra Adhi Yoga mental side is more involved and it 

rules out mental afflictions. 
ii) Amala Yoga- 

This Yoga is formed when there is a benefic in the 10th 
from Ascendant or from Moon. This benefic should be without any 
malefic aspects. A pure Amala Yoga gives lasting fame for years 
to come. 

According to texts with this Yoga one is honoured by the 

king, has power, is pious-charitable and virtuous and helpful to others. 
iti) Vasumati Yoga-Benefics in 3, 6, 10, 11 - give great wealth. 
iv) Lagan Adhipati and Dhanadhipati, lord of 1 and 2, related 
to each other 4 kinds of Dhanayogas are formed. 
Vv) Parijat Yoga: Normally a planet is strong if in addition to it 
being strong itself, its dispositor i.e. lord of the Rasi in which it is 
located is also strong. (A planet is strong if it is exalted, is in its own 
house, in Kendra Trikona, in friendly Rasi aspected by benefics 
etc.). In Parijat Yoga, which is a powerful Raj Yoga the emphasis 
is in second dispositor of Lagna lord being strong. 

It goes like this, ascertain the Rasi -in which Lagna lord is 
located. Call it A’. See in which Rasi the lord of A’ has gone. Call 
it’B'.If lord of 'B’is in a Kendra, Trikona or in its own house or in 
exaltation sign Parijat Yoga is caused. 

Another version; 

Ascertain the Rasi in which Lagna lord is placed. Again 
call it A’. Locate where the lord of A is posited in Navamsa. If it 
is in Kendra, Trikona own house or exalted, Parijat Yoga is caused. 

Result: Possesses elephants and horses- meaning is very 
rich, generous, and respected by the government. 


444 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


If Parijat Yoga is combined with Sanyas Yoga the person 
is widely respected and recognised and holds spiritual authority 
over hundreds and thousands. Even kings pay homage to him. 

It is better if there are no planets in 6 and 8 because it 
makes one free from enemies and debts. 

It is more of a wealth giving Yoga rather than political 
power giving Raj Yoga. 
vi)Parvata Yoga: 

This Yoga is formed if benefics are in Kendras while, 7 and 8 are 
vacant or occupied by benefics only. 

According to Phala Deepika Lagna lord should be in Kendra, 
Trikona, exalted or in its own sign. 

Result: modest, virtuous, famous king. 

b) According to Jatak Parijat this Yoga is formed in two ways. 

i) benefics in angles; 8 and 12 free, one planet in 9 strengthens this 
Yoga. 

ii) Lagna lord and 12 lord in mutual angles and aspected by friendly 
planets. 

The Tamil edition of Parasara Hora describes this Yoga in two 
forms, benefics in Kendras and 6. Alternatively benefics should be 
in angles and ninth house. 

There is another version of Parvat Yoga given in Phala 
Deepika according to which the dispositor of Ascendant lord should 
be in his own sign or Mooltrikona sign identical with an angle or 
trine from Lagna. 

According to Jatakadesa Marga if Lagna, 7th or 10th are 
occupied by planets while 8 and 12 are unoccupied this Yoga is 
formed. There is no mention of benefics or malefics in angles. 
Hora Sara has an jdentical version. 

Thus benefics in angles give most potent results which 
take place in their Dashas. 

4. Yogas from Moon 
i)  Sunapha 
iit) Anapha 
iii) Durudhara 
iv) Chandra Mangal 
v) Chandra Adhi Yoga or Lagan Adhi Yoga 


Yogas and Planetary Combinations 445 


vi) Amala Yoga 

vil) | Kemadruma Yoga 

viii) Shakata Yoga 

ix) Gaj Kesari Yoga 

According to Brihat Parasara Hora Shastra these Yogas prevail 
over other good or bad Yogas Hence these must be studied for 
accurate predictions. 

i) Sunapha Yoga 

If there is any planet other than Sun in 2nd from Moon this Yoga is 
called Sunapha Yoga. 

Result: Person will be wealthy, powerful like king, will eam wealth 
through his own efforts. 

Prithuyasas in Hora Sara says that this Yoga gives self 
made wealth and the native has rich knowledge of shastras. 
According to Jatak Bharnam this also gives fame, wealth and 
happiness, and makes one a scholar and Minister to the king. 

To be effective the planet should be strong. 

ii) Sunapha Yoga formed by 
Mars (exalted or own house) 

Wealthy, but hypocrite, short tempered and courageous, 
Mercury 

Artistic, intelligent, witty, sweet - tongued, wealthy and 
virtuous. 

iii) By Jupiter 

Wealthy, learned, liked by government, good to friends and 
relatives. 

iv) By Venus 

Person of big means, landed property, lives in ostentatious 
style. 

v) By Saturn (exalted or own house) 

Wealthy, village head, business magnate 

According to Brihat Jatak hankers after others wealth, 
chairman of an assembly. 
vi) Anapha Yoga 
This is formed by planets in 12th from Moon with the exception of 
Sun. If it is formed by 

Mars: obstinate, irritable temper, leader of gang of robbers, 


446 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


headstrong, 

Mercury: musician, artist, orator, handsome, renowned 
honoured by king. 

Jupiter: Religious, moral, just, wealthy, sharp intellect, 
distinguished. 

Venus: Very rich, charms women, happy, intelligent, 
conveyances. 

Satur: Long armed man, leading personality, goes after 
women of loose morals, worry, anxiety, loss of mental peace. 

According to Brihat Parasara Hora Shastra this Yoga 
makes one a king, free from disease, virtuous and beautiful at. 
Jatak Bharnam also praises this Yoga, according to which this makes 
one'of good conduct, kingly status etc. 

Note: Anapha and Sunapha Yogas caused by debilitated 
planets give adverse results like immoral conduct, bad health etc. 
vii) Durudhara Yoga: If the 2, and 12thfrom Moon are occupied 
Jby planets other than Sun, this Yoga is caused 

Results: wealthy, fortunate, servants, palatial buildings, 
charitable, happy with women. 

If it is caused by Mars - Mercury, meritorious no doubt, 
but liar greedy, and debauch. 

Mars - Jupiter, wealthy, name, fame, but has many enemies, 
moral minded. 

Mars -Venus, handsome, cheerful, wrestler, cruel. 

Mars- Saturn, wealthy, traitor, addicted to low caste women, 
unperturbed if surrounded by enemies whom he subdues, 
Mercury - Venus, gives music, art, dancing, soft speech, 
intelligent, sober. 

Mercury - Saturn: medium education, traveller to many 
countries, wealthy, hates relatives. 

Jupiter - Venus: pure, famous, wealthy, cultured, aristocrat. 

Jupiter - Saturn: gentle, modest, wise, learned, handsome, 
happy. 


Venus - Saturn: leader, rich favourite of king. 
With this Yoga Moon gets enormous strength to do good. 
The native according to Parasara experiences comforts of his own. 


Yogas and Planetary Combinations 447 


viii) Chander Mangal Yoga: 

If Mars is associated with Moon (with Moon or aspected 
py Moon) this Yoga is formed. The Person is wealthy and brave. 
Wealth could be from selling liquor, black-marketing or trafficking 
in women if there is other affliction. 

Negative prediction should not be given if there is aspect 
of Jupiter or Venus. 

ix) Chandra Adhi Yoga. 

Has been already described. Result same as Lagan Adhi 

Yoga'. 
x) Amala Yoga 

Benefic in 10th from Moon. Rich and pure hearted. 
xi) Kemadruma Yoga 

This is formed if there is no planet (Sun, Rahu and Ketu 
excluded) in the 2nd and 12th from Moon. This is very unfortunate 
Yoga and makes a person poor, swindler, rogue and sorrowful. 

Prithuyasas in Hora Sara declares that with this Yoga even 
aking becomes a beggar. 

According to Jatak Bharnam, one with this Yoga will be 
without money, family or home and will live in a distant land. 

Cancellation of Yoga: The harmful results of this Yoga are 
cancelled if 

i) _ there are planets in Kendra from the Moon or in Kendra 
from Lagna. 

ii) Moon is in conjunction with other planets. According to 
Mansagri Moon should be in a benefic Rasi and with 
either Mercury, Venus or Jupiter. 

iii) This Yoga is not operative if Moon is in Kendra from 
Lagna. 

xii) Sakata Yoga 

Sakata mean bullock cart. It is not considered to be good 
Yoga as the career moves like a cart with ups and down. This 
Yoga is formed if Moon is in the 12th, 6th or 8th from Jupiter. 

Jupiter from Moon in 6th causes Shakata Yoga, however, 
if one or both are exalted/in its own sign ,the Sakata Yoga is 
cancelled and Mukuta Yoga is formed, which lifts the native to 
great heights Jupiter in 8th from Lagna gives inheritance and added 


448 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


longevity. (Mercury in the 7th from Moon is good for fame, but not 
for peace of mind. Venus in 6 gives Sukha", especially bed pleasures, 
in 7th artistic bent of mind, in 8 inheritance and long life.) 

Mercury, Venus, Jupiter cause Satkalatra Yoga and good 
Dhanayoga. 

Results Person has ups and down in career and fortune 
may be lost and regained. Life will be full of problems, poverty and 
misery. 

It is argued that Moon should not be in three evil houses 
from Jupiter, 6,8 and 12. 

It has been observed that the harmful effects of this Yoga 
would be minimal if other good Yogas are present in the horoscope. 
(However, the transit of Moon in evil houses from Jupiter should 
be watched as these may not be pleasant times.) 

(ix) Gaj Kesari Yoga : 

This Yoga is formed when Jupiter and Moon are in Kendra from 
each other. 

According to Parasara, if Jupiter is in an angle from the ascendant 
or from the Moon and be conjunct or aspected by another benefic, 
avoiding at the same time, debilitation, combustion and inimical sign, 
Gajkesari Yoga is formed. One bom in this Yoga will be rich, 
virtuous, intelligent, will have many virtues and will please the king. 

Phala Deepika calls angular position of Jupiter between 
Moon and Jupiter as simply Kesari Yoga ,the effect of which will 
be the victory over enemies, intelligence, good speaker, long life, 
famous and rich. 

Jatak Parijat mentions two kinds of Gaj Kesari Yogas, first 
formed by Jupiter in an angle from the Moon. This is common type 
of Yoga .Second type of Yoga is when Moon is aspected by Mercury 
or Venus while the aspecting planet is not debilitated or combust. 

Kumar Swamyam, famous Tamil classic states that Moon 
should be waxing while Jupiter should be in 4th or 10th from Moon. 
The constituent Rasis are Taurus, Pisces, Aquarius or Sagittarius, 
meaning Jupiter should be in Aquarius while Moon is in Taurus or 
vice versa. Alternately Moon should be in Sagittarius while Jupiter 


Yogas and Planetary Combinations 449 


is in Pisces or vice versa. In this Cancer sign is omitted even though 
it is own sign of Moon or exaltation sign of Jupiter 


This Yoga gives wealth, fame and virtue in Dasha periods 


of Jupiter, Moon and planets related to them. There is also a school 
of thought that one bom in Kesari Yoga will be rich in Dasha of 


Venus. 


5. Yogas From Sun 
i) Shubh Vesi — This Yoga is caused if there are benefics — 


ii) 


Jupiter, Mercury and Venus in 2nd from Sun. Moon and 
Rahu/Ketu are excluded. 

Result: Happy, virtuous and famous. 

Papa Vesi — Malefics in 2nd from Sun cause this Yoga 
Result: If Saturn is in 2nd from Sun one looks old and 
haggard is of wicked disposition, steals others’ wives, is 
fraudulent, but according to Saravalli he is rich. With Mars 
one becomes of a base nature but is helpful to others. 


iii) Pap Vasi — With the exception of Moon and Rahu/ Ketu 


iv) 


Vv) 


vi) 


malefic planets in 12th from Sun form this Yoga. 

Result: Pap Vasi by Mars makes one businessman, 
victorious, famous, money by own effort. 

By Saturn: businessman, wicked, steals others wives. 
Shubha Vasi — With the exception of Moon and Rahu/ 
ketu benefic planets in 12th from Sun form this Yoga. 
Formed by Jupiter: Religious, famous, 

Formed by Venus: Virtuous and reputed 

Formed by Mercury: Handsome, soft spoken and obedient 
Ubhaya Chari— With the exception of Moon and Rahu/ 
Ketu planets in 2nd and 12th from Sun form this Yoga. 
Result: Rich, fortunate, have many servants, learned and 
happy. 

These results have been taken from Saravalli of Kalyan 
Varma. 

Budh-Aditya Yoga 

If Mercury combines with Sun, this Yoga is formed. 
Result: Highly intelligent, skilful, good reputation. Normally 


450 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


any planet close to Sun becomes combust and loses power to do 

good. But Mercury is an exception. However, Mercury should not 

be too close to Sun to give effect this Yoga. Charts of many 
celebrated mathematicians and engineers have combust Mercury. 

This Yoga in Kendra, Trikona or 11 is a traditional combination for 

Mathematics and Astrology. 

1. Lakshmi Yoga 
This Yoga as the name suggests generates immense wealth, 
since this is named after Goddess of wealth. 

Lagna lord and 9th lords are involved. They should be strong 

in Kendras or Trikonas in their own signs or signs of 

exaltation. 

i) Another variation is exchange between lord of Lagna 
and nine, or the mutual association between the two. 

ii) Lord of 9 occupying Kendras and lord of Lagna strongly 
disposed 

iit) Third variation is for Venus and lord of 9 to be strong 
and disposed in Kendras Trikonas and in their own signs 
and signs of exaltation. 

Result: noble, wealthy, handsome and good reputation. 

2. Pushkala Yoga: Moon sign lord in Kendra aspecting Lagna 
and a strong planet in Kendra. This Yoga presumes Lagna, 
lord of Lagna, Moon and Lord of Moon sign to be strong. 
Result: Wealthy, sweet speech, famous, honoured by the 
king. . 

3. Kalanidhi Yoga 
Jupiter, Venus and Mercury three benefics in the house of 
wealth or fortune, 2nd or 5th house - also 9th. They must 
combine ,aspect or be in each other's Rasis. 

Result: This is a powerful Raj Yoga, giving wealth, high 
status and good health. 

4. Kusum Yoga: Jupiter in Lagna, Moon in 7, Sun in 2. 
Combination of Gajkesari and Vasi Yoga. 

Result: King or qual to king. 

5. Sankha Yoga: Venus in Kendra, Moon in Trikona with a 
benefic and Saturn in 10th with Lagna in a fixed sign. 
Result: king, charitable, happy, leader, virtuous and well read 


10. 


11. 


Yogas and Planetary Combinations 451 


Lord of Lagna strong and lords of 5 and 6 in mutual Kendras. 

Planets and houses should be powerful Learned in sciences, 

humanitarian, righteous, family and long life. 

Bheri Yoga 

Venus, lord of Lagna and Jupiter in mutual Kendras and 

lord of nine strong. 

Another version is Ascendant, 2nd, 12thand 7th house are 

occupied, while 9th lord is strong. 

Result: rich, ruler, virtuous, good behaviour, happiness and 

pleasures generous, religious, and good family life. 

Saraswati Yoga 

Jupiter, Venus, and Mercury occupy any of the following 

houses. Lagna, two Trikonas, or four Kendras, jointly or 

severally. 

Result: Poet, famous, rich and learned in all sciences. 

Mridinga Yoga 

Lagna lord strong and other planets in Kendras, Trikonas, 

own houses or exaltation signs. Kingly life and happy. 

Srinatha Yoga 

7th lord in 10th, while 10th lord is exalted and is with 9th 

lord. 

Person is equal to Lord Devendra. (god of gods) 

Sharada Yoga 

i) 10th lord in the 5th, Mercury in Kendra and Sun in its 
own sign Leo. 

ii) or Jupiter or Mercury in trine to Moon while Mars is in 
11th. 

Result: Wealthy pious, virtuous, happy married life and 

scholar. 

Matsya Yoga 

Benefics in Lagna and the 9th house. Mixed planets in the 

5th. And malefics in 4 and 8. 

Result: Astrologer; kind, virtuous, strong, beautiful, famous 

learned and pious. 

Note: According to some version malefics should be in 9th 

and not benefics. According to Jatak Parijat malefics should 

be in the 9th and Ascendant. 


12. 


13. 


14. 


15. 


16. 


17. 


Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


But Parasara insists that benefics should be in Lagna and 
ninth house. 

Koorma Yoga 

Benefics in 5, 6, and 7 in own, exalted or friendly signs: 
malefics in 3rd and 11 and ascendant in own sign or exalted. 
Courageous, virtuous, famous, helpful, happy and leader of 
men and a king. 

Khadka Yoga 

Ascendant lord in Kendra or Trikona and exchange 
between 2 and 9. 

Rich, fortune, happiness, learned in shastras, intelligent, 
grateful and skillful. 

Kalanidhi Yoga 

This Yoga is formed if Lagna lord, its dispositor, dispositor 
of its dispositor and the Navamsa dispositor of last one are 
in Kendra Trikonas, or in exaltation sign. 

Result king of kings, wealthy, pious, strong, fond of war 
and merciful. 

This Yoga is also known as Parijat Yoga 

Kalpa Drama calls this yoga Celestial Tree, while to Parijat 
it means Celestial Flower. Both of these are known to grant 
any boon to possessor who is said to be Devendra, the god 
of gods. - 

Astyavadi Yoga 

Lord of 2nd in house of Mars and Saturn and malefics in 
Kendras. 

Result: Native will be liar. 

This is also formed if Navamsa lord of lord of two is either 
Saturn or Mars or is in their Rasis. 

Jada Yoga 

Lord of 2 in 10 with malefics. 

Result: nervous in public assembly, good fortune and great 
reputation. 

Malika Yoga 

Lagnamalika From Lagna all planets in 7 house - king, 
commander and wealthy. 

From Second hose Dhanamalika very rich, dutiful, 
unsympathetic. 


Yogas and Planetary Combinations 453 


From Third Vikrammalika ruler, rich surrounded by brave 
men sickly. 
From Fourth Sukhamalika wealthy, liberal, charitable 
From Fifth Putramalika highly religious and famous 
From Sixth Satrumalika greedy, somewhat poor. 
From Seventh Kalatramitra popular with women, influential 
From Eighth Randramalika poor, henpecked 
From Ninth Bhagyamalika religious, wealthy, powerful. 
¢ From Tenth Karmamalika virtuous, respected. 
From Eleventh Labhamalika skillful, lord of lovely women. 
From Twelfth Vyayamalika honoured, liberal, respected. 
Yogas for 1st house 
18. | Chaamara Yoga 
If the Lagna lord is strong, exalted or in its own house and 
is in an angle and aspected by Jupiter, Chaamara Yoga is 
farmed. 
This Yoga also occurs if two benefics are in Ascendant, or 
- 9th or 10th or 7th. Phala Deepika states that ascendant is 
occupied by a benefic while the ascendant lord is strong. 
Result: rich, famous, virtuous, scholarly, eloquent, long lived 
and king. 
19. Shankha Yoga 
If Lagna lord is strong and the 5th and 6th lord are in mutual 
angles this Yoga is formed. 
Or Ascendant lord is with 10th lord in movable sign, while 
9th lord is strong. 
Result: Wealth, wealthy, intelligent, meritorious, good family 
and long life. 
20.  Kaal Sarpa Yoga 
This is supposed to be an evil Yoga which destroys the 
effect of all other good Yogas in the horoscope. This Yoga 
has been discussed in details in a brilliant book "Kaal Sarpa 
Yoga" by K.N. Rao. 
The rank and file of the practicing astrologers scare the 
clients to the hilt by giving dreadful predictions about the 
result of this Yoga. 


454 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


It is our experience that undue importance should not be given 
to this Yoga and the horoscope should be seen in totality. 
How Formed? 

If in a horoscope all planets are located between Rahu and 
Ketu, this Yoga is caused. 

Supposed Results: 

If this combination occurs in the annual mundane chart of a 
country it will strike disaster. It will bring war and destruction 
unparalleled in history. Country will face defeat and its people will 
go through an agonizing time. War, starvation, diseases and 
epidemics would follow. 

In individual horoscopes it will destroy the family of the person 
concerned. He will face much hardship. His property and wealth 
will disappear and his career may come to an end. His relations 
and friends may be the cause of sorrow and abandon him. 

No reference has been made in classical books about this 
Yoga and if horoscope is strong otherwise, the Lagna lord and lord 
of nine are strong, benefics are in Kendra Trikona, malefics are in 
3, 6 and 11 and adequate good Raj Yogas exit with proper Dashas 
one may ignore harmful effects of this Yoga. 

Dr. Raman is of the opinion that this Yoga is defunct. 

1. Ifa single planet is with Rahu or Ketu or outside the axis 
of Rahu and Ketu. 

2. The evil gets neutralized if the Lagna is between Rahu & 

Ketu. 

However evil gets intensified ifLagna is between Ketu and 

Rahu. 

It is also the opinion of some of the astrologers that this is not 
operative if planets are hemmed between Ketu and Rahu, others 
hold different view. 

21. Matsya Yoga 

Benefics in Lagna and the 9th house. Mixed planets in the 

5th and malefics in 4 and 8: 

Result: Astrologer, kind, virtuous, strong, beautiful, famous, 

learned and pious. 

Note: According to some versions malefics should be in 9th 
and not benefics. According to Jatak Parijat malefics should be in 


Yogas and Planetary Combinations 455 


the 9th and Ascendant. 

But Parasara insists that benefics should be in Lagna and 
ninth house 

Combination For Theft 

Following houses Planets are involved. 

1. House of Wealth - Second House. 

2. House of Gains - Eleventh House. 

3. House of theft- Sixth House. 

4. House of Loss - Twelfth House. 

5. Malefic Planets Saturn, Mars, Rahu/Ketu. 

6. Lord of 6, 8, and 12. 

Theft occurs when lords of 2/11 are in 6 and are connected 
with Mars / Saturn. 

When lords of 2 and 6 are aspected by malefics, Mars/ Saturn. 
22. Kahala Yoga 
1. According to one version lords of 4 and 9 posited in Kendra from 
each other while Lagna lord is strong. 
2 According to this 4th lord Jupiter should be in angles while Lagna 
lord is strong 
3. According to another version 4th lord should be in its own sign or 
sign of exaltation and should be conjunct with 10th Lord. 
Result: The person is energetic, adventurous, cunning, has an army 
and is lord of few villages. 
Mantreshwar puts Kahal Yoga as differently, according to which 
dispositor of Ascendant lord should be in exaltation or own sign 
identical with a trine or an angle. This makes a man kind, noble, 
prosperous and benevolent. 


Nabhas Yogas 

Reference to these Yogas have been made by Parasara Hora 
Shastra and Saravalli. 

According to Parasara results of these Yogas are felt 
throughout life irrespective of Dasha periods. 

According to him there are 32 Nabhas Yogas which have a 
total of 1800 different varieties. These consist of 3 Ashraya Yogas, 
2 Dala Yogas, 20 Akriti Yogas and 7 Sankhya Yogas. 

Ashraya (refuge, shelter- where the planets take refuge) 


456 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


Yogas are 
i) Raju (tuft, bunch) - all planets in movable signs. 
ii) Musal (pestle) - all planets in fixed signs. 
tii) Nala (reed) - all planets in dual signs. 
Dala (rival group) Yogas are 
Maala (garland) and Sarpa or Bhujanga. 
Akriti (appearance) Yogas are twenty in number. 


1. Rajju Yoga 
All planets are in movable signs 
Effects: Person is fond of travelling, will eam in foreign 
countries, is active, have good looks and is ambitious. 
According to Parasara he is also cruel and mischievous. 
Ideas of the person also move, does not have fixity of purpose. 
Have difficulty in making fixed assets. 


2. Musala Yoga 
All planets in fixed signs 
Effects: Famous, wealthy, learned having many sons. Person 
has fixity of purpose, has stability and ability to pursue his/ 
her objectives, has a tendency to stay at a place for long 
time Obstinate, inability to take quick decisions. According 
to Parasara he has honour, wisdom and wealth. 


3. Nala Yoga 
All planets in dual signs. 
Result: defective limbs,, fluctuating wealth, good looking, 
helpful to relatives. 
Belong to two benefics Jupiter and Mercury, intelligence and 
spiritualism. 
Varahamihira has described the results of Moon in movable, 
fixed and dual Rasis. 
Moon in Movable Rasis, fickle-minded, fond of travel, cannot 
keep promises. 
Moon in Fixed Rasis fixity of purpose, stable wealth, lasting 
friendship. 
Moon in Dual signs: charitable, resourceful, enthusiastic. 


Yogas and Planetary Combinations 457 


Dala Yagas 
(i) Maala Yoga: this Yoga is different from the other name where 


(ii) 


seven planets form a garland. 

Here it means all benefics in three Kendras without any 
malefic. 

Lagna has been treated as Trikona for this purpose. 
Happy, rich, good-looking, vehicles, enjoyments, robes, food 
and pleasures, has many females. 

Sarpa (serpent) 

Malefic in three Kendras, with no benefics in Kendras. 
Result wicked, scheming, destitute, poor, miserable, will 
depend on others for food and drinks. 

Kendras are the pillars of the horoscope and planets become 
very strong here. It should be understood that even malefics 
in their own houses and exaltation signs give excellent results 
and form Mahapurush Vegas. 


Aakriti Yogas 


These are 20 such Yogas and are so named as they take 
a particular shape in the northern type of horoscope. 
Group I-relate to the Kendra position of planets - these are 9 
in number 

Group II - Arc group, where the planets form an arc. These 
are 11 in number 


Kendra Group Under this group are 


1. 


Gada (mace) There are four Kendras 1st, fourth, 7th and 
10th. 

When all planets adjacent to two Kendras are there, this 
Yoga is formed. The result of this Yoga is wealth, learning, 
well versed in Mantra, Tantra, music, envious, fearsome (odd, 
appalling). 


There are four varieties of this 

i) Gada Yoga- when all the planets are in the 1 st and 4th Kendras, 
ii) Shankha Yoga - all planets in 4th and 7th house. 

hi) Vihanga Yoga - all planets in 7th and 10thhouse. 

iv) Dhawaja Yoga - all planets in 10th and first house. 


458 


Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


Shakata Yoga: (cart) This is different from Shakata Yoga 
where Moon and Jupiter are in 6/8, or 2/12 position. All 
planets in Lagna and 7th house 

Result: poverty, ill health, lean body, quarrels with wife. 
Planets in opposition cause lot of conflict. Person suffers 
through straggles in life. 


Pakshi or Vihaga 

All planets in4 and 10 axis. This relates to profession. 
Wanderer, servile, shameless, interested in quarrels, message 
bearer, live by sexual dealings. 

If Dashas are good, this Yoga can be good for profession, 
though involves lot of transfers. 


Vajra: or destructive weapon of Indra. 
Benefics in houses 1 and 7, malefics in4 and 10. 
Handsome, brave, happy during early and old age. 


Yava (good luck) 

Malefics in houses one and seven, benefic in houses four 
and ten. 

Wealthy, charitable, happy in middle portion of life. 
According to Parasara will observe fasts and other religious 
rights, will do auspicious acts, will be happy, has wealth and 
sons in middle life, be charitable and firm. 


Kamala (lotus) 

All planets in four Kendras 

Handsome, famous, virtuous rich, pure. According to 
Parasara will be rich and famous, will perform many 
auspicious acts and be a king. 


Non Kendra Disposition 


7. 


Veapi (well) 

All planets in houses other than Kendras. Person is engaged 
in accumulating wealth, small comforts, long life, sweet 
tongued. 

According to Parasara will accumulate wealth, will be very 
rich, happy, has sons, free of eye affliction and be a king. 


Yogas and Planetary Combinations 459 


C- Trikona disposition 


8. 


Shringataka (mountain) 

All planets in Trikona houses, 15 and 9. 

Rich, many comforts, courageous and wise, rich, will hate 
women. 

Hala (plough) 

Planets located in trine to each other. Three variations are 
there 

i) In2,6, and 10 Arth Trikona 

ii) 3,7, and 11 Kaam Trikona 

iii) 4,8 and 12 Moksha Trikona. 

Will eat a lot, be a servant, poor, miserable, agitated, 
agriculturist, liked by good people. 


The Arc Group 
Short Arc 


1. 


Yoopa (pole for tying animals for Yajna) 

All planets in houses one to four. 

Learned, contended, wealthy, has home comforts. 
According to Parasara he will have spiritual knowledge, 
interested in sacrificial rites, keeps fasts and observe religious 
traditions and be distinguished. 


Shara (arrow) 

Planets in houses 4 to 7. 

Cruel, wicked, hunter, jailor, roaming injungles earn through 
animals, indulge in torture and mean handiworks. 


Shakti (javelin) 

All planets in houses 7 to 10. 

Poor, lazy, long lived, tormented by failures. 

"Unsuccessful, without wealth, miserable, mean lazy, 
interested and skilful in war, firm and auspicious" - Parasara 


Danda (stick) 
Planets in four houses 10th to Lagna. 


460 


Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


Poor, servile, rejected, cruel, devoid of comforts. Wanderer, 
outdoor activities. 

Loses his sons and wife, poor ,unkind, miserable and will 
serve mean people. - Parasara 


Planets occupying seven contiguous houses. 

Nauka, Koota, Chatra and Chapa are the four Yogas when all the 
seven planets occupy seven continuous houses from Ist, 4th, 7th 
or 10th houses 


1. 


Nau or Nauka 

When all the planets occupy houses 1 to 7. 

Earns livelihood through water as the name suggests boat, 
means good for business with foreign countries through 
shipping, many gains, will be famous, be pleased, mean, strong 
and stingy. 

According to Brihat Parasara Hora Shastra, derives livelihood 
through water, has many desires, famous, wealthy, many gains, 
miserly and dirty. 

Varahamihira says that happiness is not uninterrupted as a 
boat which is not destined to stay in aplace and moves under 
many conditions. 

Jatak Bharnam says one is miser and will always be unhappy, 
fickle minded and living on stolen wealth. 


Koota (vertex) 

Planets occupying houses four to ten. 

Liar, crafty, jailor, poor, wicked, cruel and will live in hills and 
forests. 

According to Jatak Pariyat he will do cruel deeds. According 
to Jatak Bharnam has no wealth or knowledge and is 
fraudulent. 

Mansagri has the same views, as both visible and invisible 
halves are involved. It also has two adverse houses, 6 and 8. 
These mean straggle and adoption of unconventional means 
rampant in modem times. 


Chhatra (King's crown) 

Planets continuously occupying houses 7 to 1. 

All the houses are in visible half. Exposure to public life and 
fame from ruler at the cost of their home life. 


Yogas and Planetary Combinations 461 


Kind, liberal dear to king very intelligent, happy youth and 
end. 

Varahamihira states that person will be happy at the end of 
his life. 

According to Hora Markanda person will have a small body. 
Person will be a scholar and happy at the beginning and end 
of life and will lead a royal life. 

Will have a long life - Hora Ratna 


Dhanush or Chaapa 

If all the planets continuously occupy 10 to 4 houses. 

Brave, jailor, proud, thief, wanderer, happy in middle portion 
of life 

According to Parasara fond of wandering in forests, unlucky 
and happy in middle of his life. 


Seven Planets occupying six alternative signs. 


1, 


Chakra 

Planets in 6 alternate houses starting from Lagna (i.e., six 
odd houses from Lagna- 1, 3, 5,7, 9 and 11) 

Handsome, rich king. According to Parasara he will be an 
emperor at whose feet kings having gems studded diadems 
will prostrate. 


Samudra 

Planets in 6 alternate houses starting from 2nd (six even 
houses - 2, 4,6, 8, 10, 12) 

Wealthy, renowned, happy, likeable, virtuous. 

According to Parasara he will have many precious stones 
and much wealth. Will be dear to the people and has much 
pleasure 


Ardha -Chandra Crescent Moon 

The seven planets occupy seven contiguous houses from other 
than Kendras. They could start from 2nd, 3rd, 5th 6th, 8th, 
9th, 11th or 12th houses. Those starting from 2, 5, 9 and 11 
are superior to others. 

The person is a commander of an army, honoured by the ruler, 


462 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


good in looks brave and wealthy. 
‘Fortunate, beautiful, be chief, dear to king’ - Brihat ‘Jatak 
Excellent person, rich, fame through king’ - Jatak Bharnam 


Sankhya Yagas 
These Yogas are seven in number and relate to disposition of planets 
in one, two or more signs. Since there are seven planets these can 
be distributed in 7 houses only. 
According to Parasara none of these seven Yogas will be 
effective if another Nabhasyogas are prevalent. 
1. Gola 
All the planets in one house. 
Person is poor, without learning and knowledge, has no friends 
or family is dirty and is always unhappy. 
According to Parasara he is strong, has no learning, wealth 
or intelligence, is somowful and miserable. 


2. Yuga 
All planets in any two houses 
Poor, hypocrite, without learning, forsaken by the people, devoid 
of sons, honour and virtue. 
According to Parasara will be devoid of wealth, be discarded 
by others, has no sons, mother or virtue. 


3.  Shoola 
All planets restricted to three houses of horoscope. The person 
is lazy, cruel, harsh, bold, successful in war and valiant. 
Shoola is a thorn and as such means rash, sharp, hot passionate, 
intelligent, strict, hard etc. Impulsive, dictatorial ,or assertive 
even cruel, may face sudden rise and sudden fall. 
Typical example is horoscope of Rajiv Gandhi. He had a 
sudden rise and equally dramatic fall. He was cruel as his 
attitude towards seniors was unpredictable. 


4. Kedara 
Planets in four houses. Person is balanced, having agriculture 
as profession, tmthful, wealthy, virtuous, doing good to others, 
over ambitious, useful to many, tmthful, happy, fickle-minded 
and. wealthy. 


Yogas and Planetary Combinations 463 


Paasha 

Planets in five houses. Will liable to be imprisoned, skilful, 
talks too much. Attached to his work, worldly in disposition, 
many servants, not having good qualities, skilful in earning 
wealth, impolite. 

Success in life would depend upon good Dashas. 


Dasma or Damini 

Planets distributed over 6 houses. There is good distribution 
of energy in the horoscope 

Will be rich ,bold and learned. Has jewels and many sons. 
According to Parasara he will be helpful to others ,righteous, 
very rich, famous and will have many sons. 


Veena 

All planets distributed in the 7 houses. There is maximum 
distribution of energy, which is good and strong point of the 
horoscope. 

Person is happy, rich, famous, has many servants and friends, 
He is learned, interested in music and singing. Is eloquent. 
According to Parasara will be fond of Music and dance. Will 
be skilful happy, wealthy and leader of men. 


Yogas for Imprisonment 


1. 


2: 


When two evil planets occupy 7, 9, 5 from Lagna and these 
houses happen to be owned by evil planets. 

If malefics occupy 12, 2, 5, or 9, the native will have to face 
imprisonment unless there are counteracting influences. 

If Lagna Drekkan happens to be Sarpa, or Nigladhara, or 
Passadhara, and if it is aspected by powerful malefics 
imprisonment likely. Reasons for imprisonment could be 

i. If evil planet is in 12 chronic indebtness 

u. Tf evil planet is in 2 misappropriation 

ITf evil planet is in the 5 th due to son. 

1V. Tf evil planet is in 9th treason and political reason. 

v. If evil planet is in 7 reason for rape, molestation of women. 
If Lagna is in Saturn's or Sarpa Drekkan, and is aspected by 
the Moon and Saturn imprisonment is likely. 


464 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


KARKAS OR SIGNIFICATORS 
In Parasari system Karkas or significator are fixed. These are as 
follows: 


Planets Karkas 

Sun Father 

Moon Mother 

Mars Brothers 

Mercury Maternal uncle, intelligence, profession 
Jupiter Children 

Venus Spouse, wife/husband 

Satum Servant, longevity 

Rahu Maternal grand father 

Ketu Paternal grand father 


i) Sun or Venus whichever is stronger represents father. 

ii) Moon or Venus whichever is stronger represents Mother. 

Karkas in Jaimini 

In Jaimini system Karkas are variable. These change in every 

horoscope according to their longitude, which should be measured 

without signs. These are 

1. Atma Karka - The chief and most important planet. Strength 
of the horoscope depends upon the strength of Atma Karka. It 
has the highest longitude minus Rasis. 

2. Amatya Karka - Companion or Minister, next in importance to 
Atma Karka. 

3. Bhratrukarka - Third planet in descending order - significator 
for brother or sometimes father. Also act as third lord. 

4. Matrukarka - 4th planet in descending order, acts as significator 
for mother or sometimes 4th Lord. 

5. Putra Karka - 5th in descending order - significator for children 
or 5th lord. 

6. Ghatikarka - Acts as 6th lord, lord of obstructions and 
hindrances. 

7. Darakarka - Significator for spouse, husband or wife. The planet 
having the least degrees. Or 7th in descending order. 

How to determine Karkas 

Arrange the planets in the descending order according to their 

longitudes minus the signs i.e. the signs should be ignored 

while determining the descending order. 


Yogas and Planetary Combinations 465 


The planet highest in longitude becomes Atma Karka, the next 
Amatya Karka, then Bharatru Karka, and so on as given in the 
above order. 


Example 

Horoscope of Vladimar Putin 

Asd.24°38'; Sun 20°45'; Moon 9°59’; Mars 3°20'; Mercury 0°01'; 
Jupiter (H) 26°32'; Venus 18°33'; Saturn 24° 15'; Rahu 25°25’ 


JupR | Moon 
|} 26792 ges 


Keely 


Viadimit 


Souda 
Mars | Lag Mer 1 207445 
Lee 39 ens 


1. Atma Karka is Jupiter. It has the highest longitude degrees 
26°32’ minus signs. 

Next is Amatya Karka: Saturn with 24° 15' degrees. 

Bhatru Karka: Sun: degrees 20°45’ 

Matru Karka Venus: degrees 18°33’ 

Pitru Karka Moon: degrees 9°60" 

Gnati Karka Mars: degrees 3°20' 

Dara Karka: Mercury; degrees 0°01' 


The Jaimini Karkas are: 


a 


Karkamsa Lagna is the sign in which Atma Karka is placed in 
Navamsa. 

Arudha Lagna is as many houses away from Lagna lord is away 
from Lagna. 

In the above case Mars is Lagna lord. It is 2 houses away from 


Lagna. Two houses away from Mars is Capricorn or 3rd house 
which is Arudha Lagna. 


466 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


Dara Pad: Is the house as many houses away as 7th lord is firm 

7th house. In the above case Venus as 7th lord is six houses away 

from 7th house. From Venus 6 houses away is 5th house, Pisces 
which is dara pad. 

Strength of the Yogas: 

1. Yogas are strong if they are formed by strong planets i.e. exalted 
in their own houses, in Kendra Trikonas, not combust and 
aspected by benefics. 

2. In degrees then should be close to each other. 

The Yogas are strong if planets involved are strong i.e. they 
are exalted, or in their own houses and are in Kendra Trikonas. 
Aspect of benefic planets make them stronger (1) Planets should 
not til debilitated chart in enemy Rasis in 6, 8 and 12. 

3. Planets forming Yogas should be lord of good houses and not 
to 3, 6, 8 or 12 houses. 

4. Yogas are strong if there are no aspect of malefic planets. 


Yogas and Planetary Combinations 467 


Combination of Planets 


The classical books on Astrology Saravali written by Kalyan Varma 
has given in details the result of planetary combinations. These are: 
Important Note: These results should be modifies in the tight of 
Parasari principles of lordship of planets e.g. Saturn would be Yog 
Karka’ for Taurus and Libra ascendants and Mars would be Yog 
Karka’ for Cancer and Leo ascendants as these planets become 
lords of kendra and trikona and hence capable of giving excellent 
results. Lagna lords and trikona lords are always beneficial. 


Two Planet Combination 


1. Sun-Moon 
In the Ist house 
4th house 


7th house 
10th house 


9th house 

2. Sun-Mars 
In the Ist house 
In the 4th house 
In the 7th house 
In the 10th house 
In the 9th house 


3. Sun-Mercury 


Wife dominant-deals in machinery, poison, 
intoxicants-defective eyesight. 

Grief because of parents, devoid of honour 
sons and wealth-miserable. 

Deprived of relatives happiness and sons. 
Dunce and poor. 

Insulted by females-no friends-no sons. 
Unkind, crooked, destroyer of enemies, 
army chief. 

Diseases of eye, short life, fond of quarrels- 
rich and fortunate. 

Brave, fierce, defense, service in police, 
disposed to kill, liar, sinful dull witted . 
Brave, cruel, harsh and short tempered. 
Injured body. 

Agitated, no wealth or happiness-devoid of 
relatives. 

Separated from wife, insulted because of 
females-fond of travelling abroad. 
Government service, failure in undertakings, 
emotional and distressed. 

Dear to the king and skilful, Fierce, 
courageous, many miseries in life. 

Fame, sweet in speech, rich, noble, dear to 
king, service, strength, beauty and learning. 
In lagna 5, and 6 houses fame. 


468 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


In the 1st house 
In the 4th house 


In the 7th house 


In the 10th house 
In the 9th house 


4. Sun-Jupiter 
In the 1s house 
In the 4th house 
In the 7th house 
In the 10th house 
In the 9th house 


5. Sun-Venus 


1st house 


In the 4th house 
In the 7th house 


In the 10th house 


In the 9th house 


Wise, strong, learned, adventurous and long 
life. 

Very rich equal to Kuber, famous, corpulent 
body and crooked nose. 

Mser, thief, bereft of sexual pleasures, death 
due to murder or imprisonment, does not 
keep his word 

King, famous in whole world very rich. 
Skilful, miserable, many enemies and 
diseases. 

Virtuous, minister, teacher, gain from friends, 
wealthy, famous, spiritual. 

Virtuous, sage, a minister or army chief. 
Learned, wealthy, pleasure and fame. 
Interested in Vedas, justice and poetry. Rich, 
eloquent, virtuous, 

Rich and healthy . Subservient to women, 
hates his father. 

Houses, riches, fame . A king even though 
from a low family. 

Worthy person, much paternal wealth, long 
life. 

If Venus is ahead of Sun much wealth, 
music, weapons, powerful, Weak eyesight, 
amuse public, much money through women, 
happy in regard to wife and friend. 

Mean, sorrowful, devoid of wealth and 
women. Bad conduct and quarrelsome. 
Poor, sorrowful, hatred towards others. 
Insulted by women, devoid of wealth, 
corpulent body, wanders in hills and forests. 
Many conveyances, skilful in arts, trader or 
minister. 

Much wealth, scents, perfumes, clothes 
ornaments, decorative articles-disease 
prone. 


Yogas 


6. Sun-Saturn 


In the Ist house 
In the 4th house 
In the 7th house 
In the 10th house 
In the 9th house 


7. Moon-Mars 


In the 1st house 
In the 4th house 
In the 7th house 
In the 10th house 
In the 9th house 


&. Moon-Mercury 


Inthe Ist house 
In the 4th house 


In the 7th house 


In the 10th house 
In the 9th house 


9, Jupiter-Moon 


and Planetary Combinations 469 


Leamed, mature in behaviour, metallurgist, 
loses wife and son, "Sale of minerals, 
virtuous, good qualities, wealthy, happy with 
family." - Jatak Bharnam. 

Sinful, dirty disposition, immoral conduct. 
Poor humiliated by relatives. 

Stupid, dull brain, liar, jealous, runs after 
money of others. 

Brave and has plenty of money, horses and 
elephants. 

Short-lived, fond of quarrels, diseases but 
will be rich. 

Not good maternal relations, affliction to 
blood, potters, business in leather-mean, 
inimical to mother-sick. 

King, harsh, defect in blood and digestive 
power. 

Defective limb, problem of progeny, Devoid 
of wealth and happiness. 

Untruthful, jealous, runs after others’ money. 
Brave, wealth, Army service. 

Wealthy, lose his mother early, ulcers and 
deformed body. 

Poems, wealthy, stories, beautiful, smiling, 
virtuous, fame and honour through women, 
religious, good speaker, kind, modest. 
Happy, skilful, talkative, rich. 

Fortunate, happiness from relatives, friends 
and children. 

King, brave, poet, soft in disposition. 

Rich, famous, minister. 

Scholar, knowledge of Shastras, famous, 
talks much, excellent person, deformed 
limbs. 

Forms Gaja Kesari Yoga, wealthy, virtuous, 
wise, intelligent. 


470 


10. 


11. 


Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


In the Ist house Large chest, good physique, Many sons, 
friends and wealth. 

In the 4th house Happiness, wealthy, children relatives. 
Minister. 

In the 7th house Learned, king, expert in art, mastery in many 
Shastras. 

In the 1 Oth house High status, female children., dutiful, helpful, 
long arms, famous. 

In the 9th house Distinguished, wealthy, happy and 
courageous. 


Moon-Venus Deals in textile, good conduct, clothes, 
expert in buying selling. It is a Raj Yoga. 

In the Isthouse Rich, garland, perfumes, company of 
courtesans. 

In the 4th house Wealth through water, popular, rich. 

In the 7th house Intellectual, earns name and fame, will have 
many women, not much wealth or sons. 

In the 10th house Famous, minister, rich and popular. 

In the 9th house Marries unchaste lady, diseases and rich. 
Well placed—has step mother. 

Moon-Saturn Widowed in women horoscope, aged wife, 
many women, whores, no wealth, defeated, 
devoid of virtues. No wealth. 

In the Isthouse Miser, lazy, Servant, angry and sinful. 

In the 4th house Earn through water, pearls, boats, popular 
excellent. 

In the 7th house Devoid of wife, supreme amongst his 
clansmen, honoured by the king. 

In the 10th house Leader, famous head of men. 
Moon with benefics gives good results. With 
Mars and Saturn not good unless in 10th 
house where he becomes army chief. 
Moon, Mars and Saturn is a combination 
for Mahatmas. 

In the 9th house Immoral, sinful, fallen mother. 


12. 


13. 


14. 


Yogas and Planetary Combinations 471 


Mars-Mercury Architect, no wealth, unlucky wife, relations 
with wicked widows, make medicines- 
boxing, attached to women. 

In the 1 st house Cruel, mischievous, murderer. Skilful in jobs 
relating to fire, metallurgist, mineralogist, 
industrialist, and will enjoy concealed secret 
properties. 

In the 4fh house Has food, wealth, friends, pleasure and 
conveyances, but discarded by relatives and 
own people. 

In the 7th house Loses his first wife, aimless wandering from 
country to country, serves base people. 
Skilful in arguments. 

In the 10th house Brave, army chief, cruel, crafty. Dear to 
the king, courageous. 

In the 9th house — Fortunate, skilful in shastras, chief among 
men, enjoys pleasures. 

Mars-Jupiter Intelligent, army chief, wise, king, Jagirdar, 
fond of using weapons. 

In the 1 st house Relatives, friends, dear to king, wealthy and 
happy. 

In the 4th house Devoid of spouse, wanderer in hills, forests 
and watery resorts, brave and has good 
relatives. 

In the 7th house Famous, virtuous, minister, charitable, 
enthusiastic. 

In the 10th house Fame, king, plenty of wealth, extremely 
skilful at work. 

In the 9fh house Body wounds, sickness, rich and 
honourable. 

Mars-Venus Good clothes, perfumes, popular, expert in 
buying and selling. Lazy, fighting tendency, 
textiles, vices, good conduct. 

In the 1 sthouse Immoral, addicted to prostitutes, short life, 
loses wealth because of women. 

In the 4th house Mentally tortured, miserable, lack of friends 
and relatives 


472 


15. 


16. 


Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


In the 7th house 


In the 10th house 
In the 9th house 


Mars-Saturn 


In the Ist house 
In the 4th house 


In the 7th house 


In the 10th house 


In the 9th house 


Merc-Jupiter 


In the Ist house 


In the 4th house 


In the 7fh house 
In the 10th house 


In the 9th house 


Wanders after women, mean conduct, grief 
on account of mental agony, bereft of 
happiness, friends, and progeny . Miserable, 
mean conduct. 

Intelligent, learned, wealthy famous, 
minister of a King. 

Falsehood, argumentative, ungrateful, cruel, 
hates women, quarrelsome, lives abroad. 
Metallurgy, juggler, deceitful, skill in 
thieving., troubled by weapons poison and 
fond of quarrels. 

Successful in war, hates mother, short-lived, 
and declining fortunes. 

Sinful, devoid of friends and relatives, poor, 
unhappy, lack of food. 

Sick, having vices, talebearer, devoid of 
conjugal happiness and progeny. Will be 
insulted, 

Wealth through the king but punished for a 
great crime, liar. 

Sinful, dirty conduct, interested in others’ 
wives, deprived of wealth, happiness and 
relatives. 

Dancer, scholar, singer, wise happy. Justice, 
beautiful, courageous, liberal, fond of scents. 
Auspicious, pleasing personality, does noble 
deeds, learned, honoured by the king, 
conquers his senses. Head of a province, 
happiness, pleasures and wealth. 

Blessed with friends, relatives, happiness, 
wealth, conveyances, females, royal honour 
and is skilful. 

Virtuous wife, destroys his enemies, famous, 
many friends and riches. 

Minister, famous, learned in Vedas, modest 
and honourable. 

Learned, wealthy, scholar, soft tongue. 
excellent person. 


Yogas and Planetary Combinations 473 


17. Mercury-Venus Rich, politician, studies Vedas, good in 


18. 


19. 


In the Ist house 


In the 4th house 
In the 7th house 


In the 10th house 


In the 9th house 
Mercury-Saturn 
In the 1st house 


In the 4th house 


In the 7th house 


In the 10th house 


In the 9th house 


Jupiter—Venus 


In the Ist house 
In the 4th house 


In the 7th house 


speech, songs, likes scents. 

Beautiful to look at, learned, always 
fortunate, honoured by the king, pious 
wealthy and famous. 

Happy, minister, auspicious, endowed with 
friends and relatives, fortunate. 

Happy, dear to the king, many women 
wealth and pleasures. 

King, knowledgeable in science of ethics 
or politics, honourable, virtuous, wealthy, 
skilful and successful. 

Skilful, rich, relatives, has diseases, envious 
and garrulous. 

Debts, proud, deceiving, poet. Good speech. 
Short lived, declining fortunes, ugly looks, 
sinful, bereft of wealth and learning and 
conveyances. 

Devoid of relatives friends happiness and 
wealth. Sinful and foolish, avoided by his 
own people. 

Servant, dirty, sinful foolish and harms 
others. Not tmthful or virtuous. 

Honours Almighty and Brahmins, conquers 
enemies, Has wealth, friends relatives and 
conveyances. 

Rich, garrulous, relatives skilful, envious, 
diseases. 

Profession education, argument (Law), 
excellent wife, path of virtue. According to 
Jatak Bharnam, scholar, debater, friend, son 
and. wealth 

King or equal to the king. 

Has wealth, friends and relatives, honours 
Almighty and Brahmins. 

Has virtuous wife, and all types of wealth. 
Enjoys all types of pleasures, female issues, 
famous, many conveyances. 


474 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


In the 10th house A king, many servants, riches, virtuous, 
honoured and famous. 

20. Jupiter-Saturn Rich, chief of city (mayor etc) famous, head 
of assembly. Village or association. 

In the 1 st house Hardheaded, noble lineage, rich, learned but 
limited progeny. Wicked and limited 
happiness 

In the 4th house Happy, affectionate, many relatives and 
friends, Healthy. 

In the 7th house Loses wealth because of enmity with 
females, .vices, crafty, foolish, greedy of 
paternal property, unpleasing appearance, 
but courageous. 

In the 10th house Has conveyances and cattle, equal to the 
king, limited progeny. 

In the 9th house Rich, wealth, honourable, diseases, not many 
relatives. 

21. Venus-Saturn Breaking wood, painter, boxing, mean 
profession if weak, like barber, 

In the 1 st house Splendorous body, union with many women. 
Happiness, pleasure and wealth. Many 
servants but highly bereaved 

In the 4th house Honoured by relati ves, close to the king, gain 
through friends. 

In the 7th house fame, wealth and sexual pleasures. 

In the 10th house Uninterrupted happiness and wealth, 
meritorious acts, famous minister. 

In the 9th house Many sons, dear to the king famous, 
virtuous, Sickly. 


To enable one to give accurate predictions, the position of 
planets should also be checked in Vargas. 


Three Planets Combination 


1. Sun-Moon-Mars Sinful, shameless, Knowledge of 
machinery, brave, destroys enemies, 
expert in any kind of work. 


Yogas and Planetary Combinations 475 


Sun-Moon-Mercury 


Sun-Moon-Jupiter 


Sun-Moon-Venus 


Sun-Moon-Saturn 


Sun-Mars-Mercury 


Sun-Jupiter-Mars 


Venus-Mars-Sun 


Mars-Sun-Saturn 


Splendorous, very intelligent, fond of 
arts, assembly and drinks, royal 
service and bold. 

Pious, affectionate to relatives, a 
Minister and firm in disposition. 
Learned and skillful. More cunning 
than sincere, fickle minded. 
Physical beauty if undisturbed by 
Saturn. Wins over friends. 

Immoral Vices, thief, dental disease, 
not good relations with mother. 
Marriage delayed. 

Poor, dull, at the disposal of others, 
lustful, argumentative (good for legal 
profession). Failure in _ all 
undertakings. Horse breeding, 
metallurgy. 

If Mars influences less learned and 
wealthy, famous. Otherwise hard- 
hearted, shameless, no wealth, wife 
or children. 

Very wealthy, expert speaker, king or 
king's minister, truthful and bold. 
Highly irritable. In 10th house, 
parliamentarian, politician judge, army 
chief. In the 10th house in Libra. 
Cancer or Capricorn high position but 
fall if afflicted. 

Eye discase( may be blind), fortunate, 
good family, harsh and wealthy. 
Materialistic, and sensuous. Doers not 
speak much but harsh and able. 
Intelligence of high _ order, 
distinguished in films, music 
photography and allied professions. 
Deformed limbs sick, poor, discarded 
by his people and fool. 


476 


10. 


11. 


12. 


13. 


14, 


15. 


16. 
17. 
18. 
19, 
20. 


21. 
22. 


23, 


Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


Jupiter-Mercury-Sun 


Mercury—-Sun-Venus 
Saturn-Sun-Mercury 


Venus-Jupiter-Sun 


Jupiter-Saturn-Sun 


Venus-Saturn-Sun 


Moon-Mercury-Mars 


Mars-Moon-Jupiter 
Mars- Venus-Moon 


Mars-Moon-Saturn 


Mercury-Moon-Jupiter 
Mercury-Venus-Moon 
Saturn-Moon-Mercury 


Venus-Jupiter-Moon 


Eye disease. Very wealthy, 
interested in Shastras, writer, 
poetry story writing. This 
combination in third house is good 
for writing, book publishing etc. 
Grief on account of women, 
wanderer and talkative. 

Hates others, eunuch, discarded 
by relatives. 

King, lose in gambling, much 
wealth, intelligent, bold. 

Weak eye sight, not prominent 
physique, hated by his own people. 
Dear to the king, good wife 
children and friends 

Emotionally disturbed, devoid of 
honour, fear from enemies, 
leprosy, mean 

Sinful, no friends, no relatives. 
Addicted to women, thief, dear to 
women, Anger, thief, splendorous. 
Wandering disposition, not good 
for mother. 

Loses mother early, mean, 
inimical to the people. 

Wealthy, skilful, easily influenced. 
Learned, cultured-mean, jealousy 
miser. 

Learned, able speaker respect of 
king, head of town, famous skilful 
in many  arts-dependent, 
deformed, cardiac, asthma. 
Scholar, good mother, beautiful, 
art, virtuous. In 2,11, 10th literary 
success. 


Yogas and Planetary Combinations All 


24. Moon-Jupiter-Saturn Addicted to women of higher age. 
Devoid of shame, head of village. 
Inner meaning of Shastras. 


25. Moon-Venus-Saturn Astrologer, writer, Purohit. Bad 
: married life, loses wife loose 
morals. 


26. Mercury-Jupiter-Mars Poet, head of a group, singer, good 
wife, helps others. 

27. Mars-Mercury-Venus Wicked, fickle minded, gives up 
his caste deformed, garrulous. 

28. Mercury-Saturn-Mars Facial disease, servant, foreign 
‘living, witty. 

29. Venus-Jupiter-Mars Dear to king, good sons, fond of 
women. Make people happy. 


Four Planets Combination 


1. Sun-Moon-Mars-Mercury Writer, deceive others, not 
good health, cunning 
abusive language. 

2. Moon-Mars-Jupiter-Sun Rich, liked by other sex, 
good in his work, happy 
life, well behaved. 

3. Moon-Mars -Venus-Sun Expert in all fields, happy, 
well educated, rich, has 
children and sons. 

4. Sun-Moon-Mars-Saturn Dull, no education, poor, 
beggar, short in stature. 

5. Moon-Mercury-Jupiter-Sun Rich, bold, beautiful, deals 

in gold or is a sculptor. 

Rich, popular, lucky. 

deformed, short statured. 

Poor, Lose his parents, not 

happy, liar. 

8. Sun-Venus-Jupiter-Moon Expert, happy, rich high 
position-head of animals, 
vater, forests. 


6. Sun-Moon-,Mercury-Venus 


7. Sun-Moon-Mercury-Saturn 


478 


9, Sun-Jupiter-Moon-Saturn 
10. Sun—Moon-Venus-Saturn 
11. Sun-Jupiter-Mars-Mercury 
12. Sun—Venus—Mars—Mercury 


13. Mercury-Sun-Mars-Saturn 
14. Sun—Mars—Jupiter—Venus 
15. Sun—Mars—Jupiter-Saturn 


16. Sun—Mars—Venus-Saturn 

17, Saturn-Sun-Mercury-Jupiter 
18. Sun-Mercury-Venus-Saturn 
19. Sun-Saturn—Venus—Jupiter 

20. Moon—Mars—Mercury—Jupiter 


21. Moon-Mars-Mercury- Venus 


22. Moon-Mercury-Mars-Saturn 


Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


Wealthy, fortunate thro- 
ugh women, many sons, 
fierce. 

Weak, timid, feminine 
habits. 

Brave, Jagirdar, rich, 
highly learned.—loses his 
wife and money, aimless 
wanderer. 

Lax morals, thief, not a 
good person, has no 
energy and vitality. 

Poet, scholar, writer, 
minister or high rank. 
Lucky, wealthy, famous, 
popular, high status. 
Popular, has friends, high 
status. 

Mean, deformed, hate 
relatives, unpopular and 
be insulted. 

Not very enthusiastic, 
prestigious, fond of 
quarrels. 

Lucky, learned, abusive in 
language, wealthy, bold 
and helpful. 

Poet, chief, miser, mean. 
Leader, king, extremely 
intelligent, minister. 
Mean, quarrels much, 
sleeps much, hate his 
relatives-fortunate. 
Bold, without parents, 
many wives, good 
conduct. 


Yogas and Planetary Combinations 479 


23. Moon-Mars-Jupiter-Saturn 


24, Mars-Moon-Saturn-Jupiter 


25. Mars—Moon-Saturn—Venus 


26. Mercury—Jupiter-Moon-—Venus 


27. Moon-Mercury-Jupiter-Saturn 


28. Moon—Mercury-Saturn—Venus 


29. Moon-Jupiter-Saturn-Venus 


30. Mercury-Mars-Jupiter-Venus 


31.Mars Mercury-Jupiter-Saturn 


32. Mercury~Mars—Saturn-Venus 


33. Mars—Jupiter—Venus-Saturn 


34, Mercury—Jupiter-Venus—Saturn 


Deformed, good wife, 
tolerant, many friends, 
happy. 

Deaf, wealthy, bold, rash, 
good speaker, wise, 
liberal. 

Emotional, eyes of a 
snake, proud, marry 
unchaste woman. 
Devoid of parents, 
learned, good looking, 
lucky, without enemies. 
Poet, famous, noble, wise, 
minister. 

Learmed, sexually immo- 
ral, unchaste wife, hate 
people, no relatives. 
Lucky, know many 
languages, truthful, no 
mother, skin diseases. 
grief, roaming around. 
Wealthy, good qualities, 
liked by people, good 
health, quarrel with wife. 
Intelligent, argue case 
well, brave, learned, good 
speaker, truthful, good 
habit. 

Famous, expert boxers, 
breed dogs, depend on 
others, coarse body. 
Wealthy, brave, fickle 
minded, addicted to other 
women. 

Intelligent, interested in 
Shastra, debauch, obed- 
ient servant. 


Part B 
Mundane Astrology Chapter I 


Mundane Astrology is that branch of Astrology which deals with 
the worldly events, like war and peace, earthquakes, floods, famines, 
droughts, plagues, communal riots and strife, rise and fall of nations, 
duration of the governments, death and abdication of the head of 
the state, economy of the country, general prosperity and economic 
recession and major political events which affect the nation and 
life of people as such. 
Importance of Mundane Astrology 
Varahamihira in his monumental work Brihat Samhita has said that 
"Just as the night devoid of lights is utterly blind, and the Sun dark, 
even so will aking grope in life in dark like a blind man on the way, 
ifhe is not guided by a good Astrologer". He has also said that a 
single astrologer i.e. one who studies the course of destiny can 
achieve what a thousand elephants and four times as many horses 
cannot do. 

Signification of Planets in Mundane Astrology 
Sun 
Represents persons in power, kings, prime Ministers, government, 
heads of state, big commercial firms, new undertakings, judges 
and persons in authority, honour, fame, big name and reputation 
earned, influence in the comity of nations, leadership and guidance 
to other powers. 

It also represents bureaucracy, political, religious and 
influential business people. 
If Sun is afflicted the nation becomes conceited and self centered. 
Moon 
People in general or common men, agriculture, liquids, milk, 
groceries, women in general, democracy, matters of common and 
public nature. 
Fishing industry and navigation, oceans and pearls, water transport, 
nursing profession, air hostesses, merchants, clothing business, 
travelling agencies and salesmen. 
When Moon is heavily afflicted in the horoscope it would mean 
important changes are going to take place which may portend ill for 


Mundane 481 


the country. At the time of major calamities like war and 
earth-quakes Moon has a major role as it serves the purpose of 
igniting the events. 

Mars 

Armed forces, commanders, police, engineers, criminals, armaments, 
surgeons, dentists, butchers, assassination, coup d'état, criminals. 
It is the planet of war or strife, accidents, murders, abduction, 
militants, dacoity, burglary. Violence in every form, fires explosions. 
Armed conflict and war. 

Manufacturing and industrial progress if Mars is beneficially placed. 
Iron and steel works. 

Unnatural and violent deaths, mass murders, mass tragedies, Its, 
action is sudden and disruptive. 

Political disturbances, sedition, rebellions, fires, accidents, sexual 
crimes, stolen goods. 

Conjoined with Saturn gives evil results like wars, civil strife. 
Mercury 

Publishers, booksellers, editors of newspapers and magazines, trans- 
port vehicles, trains, entertainment media, including TV. It rules 
literary world, scientific organizations, means of communication 
and transport, general industry trade and commerce. Treaties and 
written documents. Computer programmers. News media, written 
and spoken worlds, radio, television announcers. 

Jupiter 

Banks, treasury, lawyers, advocates, judges, mosques, churches. 
Religion, religious hut or Muffs, sports people, speculation, shipping 
and foreign affairs. 

It is planet of expansion and lavish spending. 

Treaties, foreign trade, revenues, teaching, preaching, arbitration 
and charitable institutions. 

Judiciary, birth rate, banking and finance, loans, lotteries, and wealth. 
Capitalism and business in general. 

Education and religious institutions. 

Ministry of Foreign affairs, Foreign Service, foreign trade, diplomats, 
long travel. Afflicted means over optimism, excess extravagance 
and exaggeration. 


482 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


Venus 

Entertainment, copper, money and jewellery. Art, music, acting, 
pleasures ballrooms, dancing halls, bedrooms for sexual enjoyments, 
cabarets, cosmetics, dress makers, fashion and public festivals. 
Gambling, glamour, hotels, jewellery, romances, love affairs, 
photography, sports and hobbies. 

Enacting of just and righteous laws. It also has control over judges, 
jury and courts of law. 

Textiles, silk and museum, modelling come under its purview. Social 
and entertainment side of the nation. It represents prosperity of the 
country. Value of currency and circulation. Harmony in general 
and when afflicted shows civil strife. Aspect of Mars on Venus in 
the 7th, or 10th denote war. In times of war it is also the planet of 
victory and also denotes cessation of hostilities and signing of peace 
treaties. 

It has control over banks, stock exchange, commodity and cattle 
market, financial affairs and revenues. 

Sexual diseases like VD and Aids, influenza, plague and kidney 
diseases. 

Affliction by Saturn may mean corruption in law courts and poverty 
amongst the people. : 

Saturn 

Agriculture, land, real estate, iron ore, mines old people, rebellion, 
common people and democracy, mines and coals. 

Democracy and all forms of democratic institutions. 

It is planet of contraction and depression. The market conditions 
will be depressed, country would pass though period of stagnation 
and economic decline. 

Labour class in general and everything pertaining to it. Strikes, 
discontentment and revolution. Farmers and farm lands. Famines 
and droughts. 

Emergencies and nationalization. National calamities and tragedies 
like earthquake and floods. 

Fall in country's exports. difficulties in foreign exchange, and 
wastage of public money. 

Heavy taxes and introduction of rationing. 

Skin, animal hides, leather, and municipal elections. 

Death of prominent leaders and national mourning. 

War. death of the old, rebellion and overthrow of the rulers. 


Mundane 483 


Satur governs all lands, minerals and underground wealth especially 
mining and oil. 

Since it rules the land, it signifies loss or gain of territory in war. If 
it is lord of 6 or 11 and has no malefic aspects country may gain 
territory in war. 

It represents barbarians, dark persons and deceit, falsehood and 
secret enemies. 

Judges, judicial system, architects and civil engineers. 
Asceticism, bankruptcy, civil service and common people. It also 
represents prisoners and martyrs. 

Rahu 

Represents crimes, war, violence and disasters of the worst kind. 
It is a very potent evil when it is conjunct with Saturn or Mars. Its 
effects are especially bad in evil houses like 6,8 or 12. It is a planet 
of aggressiveness and stands for rebellion and mutiny. It rales aerial 
navigation, electronics and radio. It is akin to Saturn in Vedic 
Astrology. 

It also signifies riots, political plots, spies and imprisonment. Slavery 
and death by suffocation. It is anti religious, anti social and is a 
cheat and believes in falsehood, jealousy and robbery. 

Strikes, mobs and rioting are its forte. 

It represents sudden accidents, poisoning and poisonous gases. 

It signifies foreigners, Mohammedan and immigration to foreign 
countries. 

It has a big hand in spreading diseases like plague, epidemics and 
cancer, skin diseases and eczema. 

Ketu 

Ketu is like Mars and is also Karka for destruction, war, secret 
plots and strife, self-immolation and suicide. It represents dacoits, 
treachery, war, and death in battlefield, sudden success and failure. 
Cotton, ready made clothes, watches, time pieces, clocks radio, 
TV, computers, non-Hindus, liquors, drugs, conspiracies, murders, 
espionage. 

It is significator for spiritual salvation and Moksha. 

It also represents Sikhs. The Sikh insurgency in Punjab took place 
under Dasha of Ketu. 

It is also significator for epidemics of virulent nature tike leprosy, 
cancer, plague and skin eruption. 


484 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


The three extra terrestrial planets which are not used in Vedic 
Astrology are Uranus, Neptune and Pluto. 
1. Uranus 

It is planet of bringing sudden changes. In destruction it 
combines in itself the qualities of Saturn and Mars capable of starting 
big world wars, rebellions, revolutions and wars of Independence. 
In modem times this could ignite fanaticism, extreme 
fundamentalism and terrorism of the worst order. Uranus is capable 
of inflicting crushing defeat, bloody revolution or war. 

It also denotes astrologers, inventors, eccentric person's 
metaphysics, telepathy occult subjects uranium, and radioactive 
elements. [Some call it upper partial of Mercury.] As such it governs 
brains, nerves and vital energy. It may govern science, philosophy 
and art. Only persons of high mental development are able to respond 
to finer vibrations of Uranus. It stimulates inventive faculties, 
superconcious mind and genius, 

2. Neptune 

It represents religious, mystic psychic changeable nature 
attributed to sea, controls socialism, plots, sedition, fraud, swindling, 
questionable undertakings, cheating, bogus companies, vices ad 
wickedness drugs and intoxication. 

It brings chaos to bring in a new order and birth of new ideas 
and nations. Combining with Saturn its results could be most 
destructive. 

It rules deep sea, mysteries, voyages, drugs, chemicals, frauds, 
deception and perversion. 

In its best form with good aspects it helps develop artistic 
tastes, develop spiritualism, leads to researches and inventions. 

It can be a benefic like Jupiter. In the 10th it is supposed to 
have a beneficial effect. 

3. Pluto 

It has special rule over deep secrets, death, misery the 
underworld (or finding things below the surface - valuable metals 
useful in making bombs and techniques of mass destruction, atom 
bombs, hydrogen bombs and nuclear devices. 

It is believed that if Pluto is in the 10th house, a person or 
party in power remains there for a long time. 


Mundane Astrology Chapter II 
Houses and their Signification in Mundane Astrology 


First House 

General affairs in the State, public health, nation as a whole, their 
behaviour in time of emergency, national disaster, their ability to 
rise to the occasion. General character of the people. State of 
Home Affairs, all national domestic considerations and national 
objectives. 

Public Health. Benefics here give good health, malefics cause 
diseases. 

Condition of the Cabinet: Malefics show bickering amongst 
members of the cabinet. They may also mean resignation and 
reshuffle among ministers. 

First House is the most important house in every mundane map as 
it represents people, the general condition of the country. Tragic 
events take place in the country when malefic planets aspect the 
ascendant. Things are unsettled. 

If benefic planets are there it means people will be happy and 
things will improve. 

New Moon falling in ascendant shows many changes would take 
place in the country. If benefic planets are there, the year would be 
good and people will be happy at large. Malefic planets cause 
discontentment and unrest. 


Second House 

Financial Condition of the Nation: revenues of the state, sources of 
the revenue, national exchequer, national budget, national wealth, 
purchasing power of the nation. 

Economy of the country, national securities, investment in stocks 
and bonds, national debt, purchasing power of the government and 
currency. 

General gain or loss, financial transactions. 

Banks, national treasury, bankers or banking, bank notes. 
Resources of the nation including armaments. 

National trade or commerce, exports and imports. 

Purchasing power of the people and their prosperity. 

Gross national product. 


486 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


Taxation, revenues, taxing power. 
Interest: interest rates, investment and fluctuation in the exchange 
rate, securities, and share of the stock, stock market and speculation 
in the market. 

National wealth. Benefics here are good. 

Satum here, if afflicted draws heavily on national resources due to 
emergencies. 

Aristocracies in the State. 

This relates to revenue, national exchequer, and banks. Well placed 
planets are good for national finance. 


Third House 

Communications, postal, telegraphs, telephones, radio, television 
and satellite communications. 

Communication departments, news and public statement, adver- 
tising, interest in newspapers and publication. 

Traffic - travel, railways, airoplanes, automobiles. 

Books, periodicals, newspapers, magazines, literature. 
Neighbouring countries, border clashes, contacts with neighbours. 
Armed forces, army chief according to Prasna Marg. 

Mental attitude of the people, public opinion. Written agreements. 
Loss of land, accidents, Press. Signing papers. Trade within country. 


Fourth House 

Land and all products relating to land, agriculture, industry, crops. 
Mines minerals, landed interests, real estates, slum areas, and hotels. 
Weather conditions, landslides, forests, forest fires, volcanic 
eruptions. 

Earthquakes, floods, forest fires, mining disasters. 

Schools colleges and educational institutions. 

According to Western astrology, common people, home land 
patriotism, opposition parties. 

Throne of the king. 

Cabinet as a whole according to Western astrologers. But according 
to Vedic astrology cabinet is denoted by the first house. 
Democratic movements / democratic government. 

Municipal politics. 


Mundane 487 


Fifth House 

1. Children, birth rate. 

2. Educational facilities and fine arts. 

3. All forms of national enjoyments, pleasures, entertainments, 
theatre, cinema halls, community parks, actors, actresses and 
all forms of pleasure. 

Artistic profile of the nation. 

Sports, public parks speculation. 

Stock exchange, public speculation. 

Morals, immorality, scandals, crimes relating to immorality. 
High society and functions. 

Upper house of Parliament, Rajya Sabha, House of lords. 
10. Schools, educational places. 

11. Ambassadors and diplomats from foreign countries. 

12. Danger to ruler as it is 8th from 1 Oth, 


Oo wemNNAF 


Sixth House 

Armed Forces. 

Territorial attacks, war also. 

Labour classes, labour unions strikes. 

State loans and debts. 

Medical and other services. 

Diseases in general. 

National food supplies. 

Places where records are kept, librarians, book keepers, and 

computers. 

9. Animal husbandry. 

Mars in the Sixth: Unless Mars is exalted or in its own house it 

gives evil results as it is significator of war, aggression, attack. 

destruction on a wide scale, mutiny, revolt and murder. 

i) War: 6th house represents war or territorial attacks and so 
does Mars. If it has lordship of 7 also war becomes certainty. 
If it has lordship of 12 and afflicted possibility of defeat is 
there. Good placement and lordship of 11 gives possibility of 

.. _ Victory. 

1) Armed Forces: If Mars is lord of 12 also there may be mutiny. 
discontent, insubordination in armed forces. 


ONDARWN o 


488 


Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


Mars- Saturn: becomes a deadly combination, mass murders, 
mass tragedies, death and destruction to kings and rulers 
proves disastrous for government, which represent this sign. 
Produces fires and explosions. 


iii) Diseases: epidemics, tumors, blood diseases. Mars Venus gives 


iv) 
Vv) 

vi) 
Vil) 


venereal disease. 

Accidents in warships. 

Lower and working classes: unrest strikes. Politicians incite 
lower classes against the government. 

Debts and Loans. 

Steel and Iron industry suffers. 


r 


viii) Old People suffer, high death rate. 


Seventh House 


I. 


oN nus 


Wars, battles. 

Enemies, dacoits, robbers, foreign secret agents, thieves, 
pickpockets. 

International affairs, and disputes, relation with other countries, 
foreign affairs, 

Death of secret enemies. 

Agreement alliances, treaties like in 11thhouse. 

Foreign trade. 

Marriage divorces. 

In the chart of military commanders, success or defeat. 


Eighth House 


l. 


2. 


OO NDMP w 


Death of national rulers, Presidents, Prime ministers, kings 
dictators. 

End of government. Destruction of state. Condition of the 
cabinet is seen from first house, cabinet as whole from 4th. 
Trouble to the people through famines epidemics. 

Mortality, death rates. 

Scientific organization, legacies. 

Capital gain, taxes, death duties. 

Pensions. 

Hidden things. 

Discoveries. 


Mundane 489 


Ninth House 

1. Supreme court judges, law courts international law, judiciary, 

litigation. 

United Nations, world organizations. 

Ministry of foreign affairs diplomacy, relation with foreign 

countries. 

Treaties with foreign nations. 

Foreign trade, commerce, shipping. 

Navy, naval affairs. 

Tourism, interstate airplane. 

Science, institution of higher education, college, college 

buildings, higher thought, scientific societies. 

9. Sea voyage, long travel, immigration. 

10. Publishing industry-advertising, public relations. 

11. Religion, mosques, temples, churches. Religious books like, 
Vedas, Quran, Bible. 

12. In war charts country's efforts to blockade enemy's shores. 

13. Commercial powers. 

14. Long distance communication, cable, wire, radio TV. 

15. Airplanes, shipping, motor transport. 

16. Airline, hostesses, travel agents. 


wh 


ie 


Tenth House 
I . King, royalty, nobility. 
2. Rulers, Prime Minister, Head of State. 
3. Party in power F 
4. Governor. 
5. Top authority in the state. 
6. Nation’ prestige, status, reputation. 
7. Parliament according to Hindu Astrology. 
8. Politics, politicians. 
9. National celebrities. 
10. National aims and gains 
Disgrace and death to ruler. 
In war charts, (charts made at time of war), transit of Jupiter and 
Satur are important. Satum gives defeat and Jupiter victory. 


490 


Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


Eleventh House 


1. 


10. 


In western astrology Parliament, House of Representatives. 
In Hindu astrology Parliament is seen from 10th house. We 
should use both the houses for Parliament. 

Agreements and contracts with foreign governments. Alliance 
with foreign countries. 

National mint, treasures. 

Ambassadors sent to foreign countries. 

Vice President. 

National aims or goals, national plans. 

Allies, international relations. 

Gain from other nations. 

Gain from foreign trade. 

Cooperative societies. 


Twelfth House 


War and losses, concentration camps. 

Espionage. 

Military hospitals, ambushes, assassination. 

Arson, loot, rapes. 

Sedition, treason, enemies, secret plots, foreign spies, 
espionage by enemies, saboteurs, kidnappers, conspiracies. 
Secret treaties. 

Organised crime, criminals, gambling, prostitution, blackmail, 
boot legger, deception, forgery. 

Secret service, detectives, police law enforcement authorities. 
Jail, prison, and labour camps, concentration camps. 
Hospitals, asylums. 

Imprisonment, slavery. 

Exiles, extradition. 

Misery, misfortunes, poverty. scandals. 

Epidemics, pests. 

Property in foreign countries. 

Sea, smuggling, 

Loss, extravagance. 

Life in foreign place, success abroad. 

Termination of appointment. 


Mundane Astrology Chapter III 
Ruling Signs of Countries 

Ptolemy, who is the father of the Western Astrology, 
has divided the whole world into various signs. Other 
astrologers subsequently modified this list. While this list cannot be 
depended upon, experience has shown that by and large this gives 
accurate results. Ptolemy's distribution in 2nd century A.D. was 
more or less Nirayana as Aynamsa was at that time one or one and 
a half degrees. 

Varahamihira has devoted two chapters in assigning 
constellations to various regions of India and some adjoining 
countries. These have been allotted on the basis of Nakshatras or 
constellations, which more or less have stood the test of time. The 
scheme on which this has been divided is known as Koorma 
Chakra, which has been described separately. 

Ruling Sign of India: 


1. Since Varahamihira's time India comes under the sign Capricorn. 
There is no doubt that Capricorn governs some parts of Northern 
India. Dr. B. V. Raman, however, considers Virgo to be India's 
ruling sign as Virgo (Kanya) symbolizes Kanyakumari, the southern 
most tip of India. 

2. Delhi the Capital of India is governed by the sign Scorpio (Vrischik). 
3. India got her independence on !5thAugust 1947 at midnight. At 
that time the sign rising was Taurus (Vrishab). The independence 
horoscope of India is given separately. The story behind time chosen 
is given by K.N. Rao in an illuminating article "How Hindu 

Astrologers Saved the Nation", in Journal of Astrology July— 
September 1997. 

4. India was declared a Republic on 26th January 1956 in Bharani 
Nakshatra. The sign rising was Meena and the horoscope is given 

separately. 

USA: 

Astrologers differ, but more or less majority allots Gemini (Mithun) 
as the ruling sign of the Independence Day of 4th July 1776. The 
timings of holding the convention at Philadelphia are not certain. 

KN. Rao thinks the mling sign could be Leo as it is giving better 

results. This has been discussed by him in the article in Journal of 

Astrology in the issue of January — March 2002. 


492 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


Country as a whole may have one mling sign, yet different signs 
still govern different regions in the same country. 

With this background a short List of the countries governed by 
different signs is given below. 

1. Aries (Mesha) 

England (UK), France, Switzerland, Germany, Denmark, Syria, Part 
of Poland 

Cities: Birmingham, Marseilles, Florence, Verona, and Naples. 
2. Taurus (Vrishba) 

Holland, Iran, Ireland, part of Russia, 

Cities: Dublin, Leipzig, and St. Louis 

3. Gemini (Mithun) 

U.S.A, South West of England, Belgium, part of Italy 

Cities: London, Versaialles, Melbourne, Plymouth, and San Fran- 
cisco. 

4. Cancer (Karka): Holland, Scotland, New Zealand, Paraguay 
Cities: New York, Tripoli, Algiers, Tunis, Venice, Manchester, 
Genoa, and Amsterdam. 

5. Leo (Simba): Italy, Part of France, Scissile, Bohemia 

Cities: Bombay, Chicago, Damascus, Bristol, and Philadelphia. 
6. Virgo (Kanya): India, Turkey, Brazil, West Indies, Greece 
Cities: Paris, Lyons, Jerusalem and Los Angeles 

7, Libra(Tula): Japan, Tibet, Alaska some parts of India, Portugal, 
Cities Frankfort, Sheffield, Lisbon, Antwerp, Charleston, Vienna, 
Johannesburg. 

8. Scorpio (Vrischik): Norway, Morocco, Bavarian, Israel. 
Cities: Washington, Dover, Liverpool, and Baltimore. 


Mundane 493 


9, Sagittarius (Dhanu): Spain, Saudi Arabia, Hungry, Madagascar 
Cities: Cologne, Toledo, Sheffield, and Rodenburg. 

10. Capricorn (Makar): Part of India, Afghanistan, Mexico, 
Greece, and Macedonia. 

Cities: Oxford, Bmssels, Brandenberg. 

11. Aquarius (Kumbha): Russia, Sweden, Some part of Arabia, 
Lower Sudan. 

Cities: Brighten, Hamburg, and Bremen. 

12. Pisces (Meena): Portugal, Egypt, Norway 

Cities: Alexandria, Ratisbon, and Lancaster. 


Russia: New Russia was born at 13:45 hrs. in Moscow on 
12-6-1990, with Virgo or kanya Lagna. (KN Rae - JA. Jan 2002). 
China: The birth of Communist. China took place on 1-10-1949 
at 15:15 hrs with Capricorn Lagna. 

Saudi Arabia: Birth 21-9-1932, 12 LMT Riyadh-Lagna, Scorpio. 
Israel: Birth 14.5.1948 Tel Aviv-15.50 hrs, Lagna Virgo. 

Traq: 14-7-1958; 1:24 A.M. Baghdad Lagna Taurus. 

USA: (K.N. Rao) 4-7-1776, 10:21 Philedelphia Lagna Leo. 
Canada: 1-.7-1867 midnight, Pisces Lagna. 

Pakistan: 14-8-1947; 00.00 hrs Karachi, Lagna Aries. 

Syria: 13-11-1970; 05:50 Damascus, Lagna, Libra. 

Tran: 1-04-1979 15.00 Tehran, Lagna Cancer. 

Turkey: 29-10-1923; 20:30 Ankara (Ankara) Lagna Mithuna some 
give time of birth as 19.30. 


Mundane Astrology Chapter IV 


Koorma Chakra 
Koorma means Tortoise. Varahamihira in his monumental work 
divides the county according to direction represented by 27 
Nakshatras Alberuni says that the figure which represents this 
division is similar to tortoise. Three Nakshatras form a unit in this 
scheme. Each unit represent certain parts of the country. The 
starting unit of this Chakra is Central India from where it proceeds 
to East, South East, South, South West, West, North West, North 
and North East. 

1. Central Region: Krittika (3), Rohini (4), Mrigsira (5) 

These areas are roughly pasrts of Rajasthan, Western UP, 
including Mafhura, Madhya Pradesh, Chattisgarh, Eastern Part 
of Maharashtra. 

2. Eastern India: Ardra (6), Punarvasu (7), Pushys (8) 
Roughly Bihar, Jharkhand, West Bengal, Bangladesh, Meghalya, 
Assam, Nagaland, Manipur, Mizoram, Tripura. 

3. South East: Ashlesha (9), Magha (10), Puravphalguni (11) 
Bengal, Kalinga, Vidharbha, Tripuri (Near Jabalpur), Kishkanda, 
Andhra. 

4. South: Uttarphalguni (12), Hasta (13), Chitra (14) 

Sri Lanka, Malaya, Konkan, Kerala, Part of Karnataka, Nasik, 
Chola, Kanchi, Tamil Nadu. 

5. South West: Swati (15), Vishakha (16), Anuradha (17) 
Roughly Goa, Kamatka, Part of South Western Maharashtra. 

6. West: Jyeshta (18), Moola (19), Purvaashada (20) 

West Maharashtra, Gujarat, Baluchistan, parts of Rajasthan. 

7. North West: Uttarashada (21), Sravana (22), Dhanistba (23) 
Northern Part of Kashmir, North of Pakistan, Afganistan. 

8. North: Satabhisha (24), Poorvabhadra (25), Uttarbbadra (26) 
Kailash, Kutch and Tibet, Central Asia, Jammu & Kashmir, 
Himachal Pradesh. 

9. North East: Revati (27), Ashvini (1), Bharni (2) 

Part of Nepal, Sikkim, Bhutan, Amnachal Pradesh, Tibet. 

In addition the planets also represent directions and places. 

Sun - East, Moon - North West, Mars - South, 

Mercury - North, Jupiter - North East, Venus - South East, 

Satum -West, Rahu - South West 


Mundane 495 


Planets ruling over Countries are: 


Sun : Eastern half of Narmada, Orissa, Bengal, Bihar, 
Kambhoja, Eastern Tamil Nadu, Kausambhi 
Moon : Kosata, Broach. 


Mars ~~: Narmada, Sindhu, Mahanand, Bhimrataha, Sipra River, 

Malya, Chola, Dravida, Andhra, Konkan, Vindhya. 
Mercury : Ganga, Saryu, Himalayan States and Saurashtra. 
Jupiter : Eastern Punjab, Western U.P. 


Venus : Taxila, Gandhara, Malva, Vitasta, Iravati. 
Saturn : Saurasbtra, Vidisa, Rajasthan 

Rahu : Suleka, Kinnars 

Ketu : Iran, Hunas, Afghanistan, China, Cholas 


Koorma Chakra 


24, 24, 26 11,2 
Satbhisha, Revatl, Ashvini 
21, 22, 23 Poorva Bhadra, Bharani 
Uitarashada, Uttar Bhadra 
Sharawan ao North North 
Dhanishta West Fast 


6,7,8 
Ardra, Punarvasu 


14, 19, 20 
Jyeshla, Moola 
Purvashadha 
9, 10, 11 
15, 16, 17 Ashlesha, Magha 
Bwari, Vishakha : Purva 
Anuradha West 12, 13,14 South 


Uttarphaleun, East 
Hasta, Chita 


Mundane Astrology Chapter V 
Mundane Astrology- Important charts and Principles 


Following factors must be considered. 


1. Horoscope of the country concerned. For India the 
horoscope of Independent India 14/15 August, 1947, 00:01 AM, 
New Delhi. Lagna Taurus or Vrishabha. 


2. Any thing relating to Constitution, Republic Day Horoscope 
26.01.1950. Lagna Meena or Pisces. 


3. Horoscope of Hindu New Year which sets the trend for full 
year. Chaitra Shukla Paksh Prati Pada. New Moon—. Sun and 
Moon are in Meena Rasi. This date has to be referred to from 
Panchanga. For the year 2002 the date was 13th April 00:51 hrs. 
The Lagna was Dhanu. This would give a fairly good picture of 
what is to come in the year under review. 


4. Entry of Sun in movable Rasis, 1, 4, 7 and 10. (Mesha 
Karka Tula and Makar). The entry of Sun in cardinal points 
Rasis Aries, Cancer, Libra and Capricorn is important. Horoscopes 
of entry time in these Rasis be made and result assessed. Entry of 
Sun in rest of Rasis is also made use of. This is known as Surya 
Vithi or time & entry of Sun in all the 12 Rasis, representing 12 
months of the year. 


5. Horoscope of the New Moon and full Moon every month to 
see immediate results. This will give results with reference to 
particular country, each fortnight. 


For example the lunation takes place in Makar Rasi and Rahu and 
Saturn are there. Then the country represented by Makar suffer 
greatly. Its people are discontented and restless, nation as a whole 
faces bad times, Cabinet is shaky for that particular month. During 
the same month this lunation might have taken place in the 10th 
house of some country which shows there might be death of the 
President or Prime Minister. Lawlessness will prevail and there may 
be signs of revolution. If the combination occurs in the 5fh house 
there would be set back to educational system and entertainment 
industry in the third house. of some country would disrupt rail system 
and communication. In 2nd house of another country there will be 


Mundane 497 


financial chaos, retrenchment and falling exports. Thus the evil effects 
will happen all over the world in one form or the other. 

6. Planetary Cabinet 

Seven planets change portfolio every year. These portfolios are 
kings, Prime Minister, commander in chief, lord of vegetation, lord 
of minerals, lord of juices, grain, cattle etc. The planet which is 
king in one year may becomes Prime Minister next year. These 
details are given in Panchang of each year. 

7. Role of Sun, Moon and Mars 

The Sun and Moon are generally royal planets; if in any year either 
of these do not become the king, then royalty suffers. Similarly 
Mars is permanent commander in chief. If in any year he does not 
become the commander in chief, the army and navy in that year 
suffer. All these details must be considered. The affliction to Royal 
Planets set a trend for the events affecting government each year. 


8. Role of Eclipses 


Eclipses (graham) play a great role in national astrology. The 
influence will be exercised for a period of six months before and 
six months after the appearance. The effect of eclipses will be felt 
in countries where these are visible. If two eclipses, one solar 
and one lunar, occur within 14 days, there will generally be 
national disaster like war, assassinations etc. 


There were two eclipses in March 1914 within 14 days, and 
Suryanarain Rao predicted the outbreak of the World War I. 
Eclipses have great significance in Mundane Astrology. 

Eclipses also affect leaders and nations. 

Eclipse take place along Rahu /Ketu axis. 

9. Comets 

Appearance of Comets and directions in which they appear should 
be considered. The countries represented by the signs in which 


comets appear normally suffer. Varahamihira of Brihat Samhita 
has written in details about it. 


498 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


It has been recorded in history that when large comets made their 
appearance great misfortunes have fallen in the shape of 
earthquakes, famines, and wars. 

In 1903 a comet was discovered in the sign Aquarius which 
represents war and in 1905 an important event in the form of Russo 
Japanese War took place in which the Japanese defeated the 
Russians .It was an event of most importent significance in which 
a European Nation was for the first time defeated by an Asian 
country. This was presage for rise of nationalism in the most of 
Asia and Far East. 


Prior to appearance of Haley Comet whose return occurred in 
1910, there were great changes in the world like earthquakes and 
famines followed by Chinese revolution of 1911. 


It is said that comets appearing in the east presage the birth of a 
New Prophet, in the west in cardinal signs they show trouble as 
they represent wars and invasions. The comets appearing in the 
signs representing particular countries show trouble in that part of 
the world. 


10. Earthquakes 


This is a fertile subject for study and research. Following principles 
should be noted: 


1. Result of eclipses in fixed signs in Taurus, Leo, Scorpio and 
Aquarius especially in Taurus and Scorpio. In this connection it is 
important that some planets like Saturn form an aspect to point of 
eclipse. 


2. These are also the result of conjunctions of planets if they take 
place in the fourth house of a nation. 


3. Jupiter in Taurus or Scorpio forming an evil aspect with Mercury. 


4. Earthquakes happen if there are many planets in the four cardinal 
Rasis, Aries, Cancer, Libra and Capricorn. 


5. The timing of the new Moon is important. 


Mundane Astrology Chapter VI 
Horoscope of India - Independence and Republic Day 


India's Independence 14/15 August 1947 12: 01 AM, Journal 
of Astrology July Sept. 1997 Article by K.N. Rao 


Independent 
India 
15-8. ]947 


Lag Ju 
id ek 
Navansa i 
Kets 
Moon 


Lagna 7°29": Sun 27°59”, Moon 3°59’, Mars 7°27’, Mercury 13°41"; 
Jupiter 25°52': Venus 22°34', Sat; 20°28': Rahu 5°44’. 

This js the horoscope of Independent India useful for giving 
prediction about all type of national events. 

The day 15th August, 1947, chosen for Independence Day 
was most inauspicious. There was a combination of five planets 
with Sun and Saturn in Cancer or Karkha. Moon was weak and 
Rahu was in Taurus, a source of wars and bloodshed as has been 
discussed later in separate articles. 


500 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


In 1947, when the English rulers had decided to grant independence 
to India on 15th August Hardeo Sharma Trivedi, a famous Astrologer, 
and publisher of Shri Vishwa Vijay Panchang (almanac) in Hindi, 
and Surya Narain Vyas of Ujjain, told Dr. Rajendra Prasad, who 
was later became first President of India that it was not an 
auspicious day. When it became necessary to stick to 15 August, 
Hardeo Sharma Trivedi chose midnight for three reasons. 

1. Moon would have entered Pushya Nakshatra a ‘Mahan’ 
Nakshatra, most favoured for Muhurata. 

2. It should be midnight at Abhijit Muhurata calculated as follows 
Sunrise on August 15, 05 hrs. 33 min., 31 Seconds 

Sunset 18 hrs. 57 min., 31 Seconds 

Time for next sunrise counted from Sunset 10 hrs. 36 minutes Half 
of which is 5:18 Add to sunset time. This comes to midnight 12 hrs. 
15 minutes. 

24 minutes before or after 12:15 is Abhijit Muhurata. 

3. Lagna rising would be Taurus or (Vrishabha), a fixed sign, 
favoured for foundation of buildings etc. 

Sir Woodrow Wyatts has mentioned the names of these astrologers 
in an article on May 1988 in the Central page of the Times, London. 
"This is how the Indian astrologers saved the nation.” (Pakistan 
has already broken into two because of their not believing in Astrology 
and choosing movable or Char Lagna.) 


II- Indian Republic 26-1-1950 


Republic 
76-1- 1950 


About 10 AM 
Delhi 


pee es ia Te 
Ketu 


Mundane 501 


Chathur 
Thamia 


Lagna 15°14; Sun 12°31'; Moon 12°38'; Mars 16°14° Mer 
25°31' Jupiter 19°31’, Venus 20°44'; Sat 25°36’, Rahu 16°35’ 

1. Both horoscopes have Rahu in Lagna. That is why policy of 
pseudo secularism is adopted by India always. 

2. In Republican Horoscope, Mars and Ketu at 16° each aspect 
Lagna of 15°. 

3. In the independence horoscope, !Othlord Saturn is conjunct with 
4 other planets and Moon weak. It is Sanyas Yoga in the house of 
preaching. Luckily Moon is in Pushya Nakshatra which is a saving 
grace. Fortunately there is also Gajkesari Yoga. 

In Republican Horoscope, 10th lord Jupiter, is debilitated in 11 th 
house with 6 and 8 lords. It explains why we had so many, 
amendments to the constitution some of which atrocious. We 
put restrictions on Hindus by Hindu Code bill but none on Muslims 
for marrying 2nd time. During Rajiv Gandhi time in 1985-86. Shah 
Banu judgement given by Supreme Court was nullified by 
amendment. 

5. While in the case of Independent India we have two Yoga Karka 
dashas of Saturn and Mercury Republican horoscope was the worst. 
It started with Ketu Dasha, followed by most unfortunate Venus 
and Sun lords of 8 and 6. 

6. Republican Horoscope has three retrograde planets. 

Other Horoscopes Used for Giving Yearly/Mundane 
Predictions: 

The soli — lunar new year commences from the time of Chaitra 
Shukla Pratipada during the end of Amavasya coincides with the 
beginning of Shukla Pratipada. Moon and Sun are conjunct in Meena 
Rasi. 

Ruler of the day or Vaar when Pratipada is running at sunrise is 
designated as lord of the year. 


502 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


New Moon on Oth April, 2002, 00:51 minutes-Delhi Lord of the 
year Saturn. Its strength and disposition decides the shape of events. 


Lagna 20°G0’ ~, Sun 28°49", Moon 28°49", Mars 5°29, Mer 4°49" 
Ven 20°18" Jupl4°28" Rahu 25°26’. 


Ven 
Lagaa 


Note: (Vishwa Vijaya Panchang uses Kanya Navamsa because of 
Lagna degree 20°00’. 


Mundane Astrology Chapter VII 


Transit of Venus in Gemini and Indian Affairs - Article in 
Journal of Astrology - July-Sept. 1997 by author written 
under guidance of K.N. Rao. 


In the Indian independence chart, Venus is the Lagna lord. It has 
been observed that whenever Venus is afflicted the whole nation 
suffers. For example at the time of death of Mahatma Gandhi 
Venus was aspected by Mars and was squared by Jupiter the 8th 
lord. Ketu had also 5th aspect on Venus. See the horoscope below. 
Death of Mahatma Gandhi, 30.1.1948, 


30 -[- 1948 
Besih of 
Mahatma 

Gandhi 


ee eo a 
Mar 
Rahu 
Oc 1962 


504 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


And on June, 5, 1984, at the time of Operation Blue Star at Golden 
Temple Amritsar, Venus was in Rahu Ketu axis aspected by Mars. 


Sik June, |o84 


Operation 
Blue Star 


Why is entry of Venus in Mithun bad? Because in the Ashtak Varga 
chart of Independent India Mithun is a weak Rasi and has only 19 
benefic points. 


Sarvahtak 
Varga 
Independent 


India 


And in Moon's Bhinashtak Varga, Gemini has a zero benefic point. 
Moon is the mind and whenever Lagna lord transits in the Rasi of 
Gemini having no Bindu, the whole political body of India suffers. 


Mundane 505 


Venus in Mithun or Gemini 
Moon's Bhinashtak Varga. 


Bhinashak 
Varga 


Independent 


See the horoscope at the time of Nehru's death on 27, May 1964 
Venus was in Mithun. 


Other periods of history when Venus was in Mithun following series 

of events happened: 

1. 1953 July 30 to August 24 Kashmir Crisis- Shaikh Abdullah 
dismissed. This gave a set back to Nehru's Policy. 

2. May, 27, 1964 - Nehru's Death 

3. 1966, July 18 to August 9, No confidence motion against Indira 
Gandhi. 

4. 1969, July 30 to August 24— Indian National Congress Split 
in Indira Gandhi time. Jagjivan Ram become President of 
Congress. 


506 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


5, 1972- May 2, June 22 and July 27 to Sept. - Morarji Desai vs. 
Indira Gandhi syndicate- election of President VV Giri vs. 
SanjivaReddi. 

6. 1988-May 4, to May 22 July 31 to September, 

CAG indictment over Submarine purchase. 

Operation Black Thunder in Amritsar against terrorists. 

Earthquake in north India 

7. June 14 to July 17, 1992 — Crisis at the stock Exchange - 
seam of Harshad Mehta of Rs. 45,000 crores — Venus about 
to enter Mithun 

8. Recently in year 2001 Venus was in Mithun from 27th July 
2001 to 22nd August 2001. 

The important events that took part in India were: 

On 23rd July, Law Minister Ram Jethamalani resigns on being 

asked by the Prime Minister. The minister blames Soli Sorabji, 

Attorney General for this. 

Maharashtra Government decided to prosecute Bal Thackeray. 

Shiv Sena stays away from NDA meeting at PM's residence. 

27th July, uproar in Parliament over Ram Jethamalani’s exit from 

Government. 

31st July Kannada matinee idol, Dr. Raj Kumar kidnapped along 

with three others. National press gives this prominent coverage. 

Lok Sabha passes a Bill to create Chhatisgarh State out of Madhya 

Pradesh. ; 

Fresh floods in Himachal Pradesh kill 100. 

Rupee plunges to lowest level at Rs. 45.17. 

Thirty two Amarnath Yatris and security guards shot dead by foreign 

mercenaries. Militants kill another 100 people in Jammu and 

Kashmir. 

Bharat Bandh called by VHP to protest against killings. 

Havoc crated by rains in Bihar and later on in Andhara. 

10th August New State of Uttaranchal created. 

15th August Goa Congress (I) splits. 

22nd August Mrs. Uma Bharati BJP MP quits Lok Sabha and Party 

seat. 


Mundane Astrology Chapter VIII 


Entry of Saturn/Rahu in Rohini Nakshatra and events in India 
Importance of Mundane Astrology 


In Uttarkhand Section of Padam Purana there is reference to 
the explanation given by Lord Shiva to Rishi Narada about role of 
Saturn, both in mundane as well as individual horoscopes Saturn 
had reached the end of Krittika Nakshatra (10 degrees in Taurus) 
about to enter Rohini. King Dashratha was warned that this would 
lead to terrible famine and also war. 

Dashratha reached Shani Yuga, he was greeted by Satum 
and is told that as a result of Saturn's nature all would be destroyed. 
Somehow Dashratha was saved. Saturn was happy with Dashratha 
as later had paid him respect and praised him to ask for a boon. 
Dashratha asked Saturn to save the world from the agony of wars 
and famine. Dashratha recited famous Neel Shani Stotra 


Saturn and Dashratha- 

Saturn in Rohini "Causes Rohini Shakat Bhedan Yoga" - which 

causes, wars, famine and communal riots. 

K.N. Rao, researches Prism of Prediction in 1984 and in 

Journal of Astrology 1997 April- June has shown that Saturn 

in Robin has meant war 

1. World War 1 - (events leading to world war 1, November 

1913 to May 1914)- Gandhiji started Satyagraha movement 

in South Africa) 

2. India 1942— War and famine Bengal — Quit India 

movement Indo Pakistan War 1971 (July 22 to November 17, 

1971) 

Revolt in East Bengal and events leading to Indo Pakistan 

War. 

3. Rahu in Rohini Vrishabha Rashi 

I, 1898—1900— Drought and Famine 

1.89,000 Sqr miles and 28 million people affected — breakdown of 

eit order—hunger, death, misery everywhere — bubonic plague. 
I. Jalianwala Bagh Tragedy 13 April 1919 

More than 1000 innocent people were killed. No medical aid was 


508 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


given Curfew was imposed. Reign of terror, Bloodshed in Punjab. 
Punjab had become one prison. 


Jananwala 
134.1919 


1928—Simon Commission, Industrial strike, Lala Lajpat Rai lathi 
charged, Bhagat Singh killed Sanders ASP who had ordered lathi 
charge. He later threw a bomb in legislative Assembly 


Communal Riots and Independence 


May 1946 
Dec 1947 


Tashkend Declaration. 


April 1974 Sept. 1975 

Economic Crisis, Shortage of Food, J.P. Narain total Revolution — 
5 miles of Silence Emergency June 1975 Operation Blue Star 
5.6.1984 


Mundane 509 


1 Sept 1965 
Indo Pak War 


Dec. 1992, Babri Masjid Demolition 
Ven Lag 
EEE 


Sth June 1984 
Operation Blite 
sar 


6th Dee 1992 


Babri Masjid 
Demolition 


510 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


Communal riots in India 

27.2.2002 — 57 people mostly Kar-Sewaks were killed when four 
bogies of Ahmedabad bound Sabarmati express were set on fire at 
Godhra railway station in Gujarat on 27.2.2002 by the Muslim mobs. 
The train was carrying Kar Sewaks returning from Ayodhya after 
participating in 'Poorna Ahuti Yagya' a precursor to constmction 
of Ram Temple. There were over 2000 attackers. Riots spread all 
over Gujarat. 

28.02.2002 more than 150 people were killed. Riots spread to 
Ahmedabad which was the worst effected and other towns of 
Gujarat. Riots spread in other parts of (Gujarat. Rajkot, Surat, 
Vadodaras). Riots in Haryana, Kaithal, where religious structure 
were demolished. Incidents reported in Punjab Kapurthala. 

In UP vehicles damaged in Kanpur. 

Rajasthan Kishengarh town of Ajmer District communal clash. 
Maharashtra- shops in Murad, Thane set on fire, Andhra Pradesh. 
Shrines and police vehicles in Hyderabad damaged. 

17.32002- Three mosques damaged and adjoining houses set on 
fire after a case of cow slaughter in Loharu (Bhiwani). 


Chapter IX 
Planetary Cabinet and King (Raja) of the year / Cloud etc. 

To predict events for the annual year it is necessary to 
make Planetary Cabinet for the particular year. 
King of the Year : 

There is some controversy regarding choosing king of the 

year. Various Indian Panchangs (ephemeris) use different 
systems. The most acceptable principle is that Lord of year should 
be the lord of the day on which Hindu New Year starts. (Hindu 
New Year starts on Chaitra Shukla Paksha Prati Pada as explained 
earlier). For the year 2003, the Hindu New Year started on April 1, 
at 24hrs 49 minutes (see page 22 of Lehri's Indian Ephemeris). 
This according to English calendar is 2" April, 2003 which is 
Wednesday. Raja or King for 2003 would be Mercury, lord of 
Wednesday. 
However, according to "Kalaprakasika", an ancient classical text 
the Raja or king of the year is the planet which is mling the day 
(day of the week) on which Sun enters the first point of Aries. 
For example for the year 2003 the Sun entered Aries on 14" April 
2003 at 11 hr 47 minutes. On 14" April it was Monday. The lord of 
Monday is Moon. Hence the Raja or King of the year would be 
Moon. But this method of choosing lord of the year does not find 
favour with other school of thought. The accepted principle is to 
make Mantri or Prime Minister lord of day on which Sun enters 
Aries. 


Mantri or Prime Minister: The Minister is decided on 

the basis of the planet which rules the day on which on Sun enters 
first point of Aries. In 2003, Sun entered Aries on April 14 at 11 hrs 
47 minutes which was Monday. Hence Prime Minister for 2003 
was Moon. 
Lord of Paddy Crops is decided on the basis of the planet 
which rules the day on which Sun enters firs point of Cancer. Sun 
entered Cancer on July 16 at 26 hrs 13 minutes. It was Wednesday 
(sunrise to next sunrise). Lord is Mercury. 


512 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


Lord of Fruits and Vegetation is decided on the basis of the 
planet which rules the day on which Sun enters first point of Libra. 
In 2003 this was on 17 October 22 hrs 32 minutes which was 
Friday. The lord was Venus. 

Lord of Mineral kingdom is decided on the basis of the planet 
which rules the day on which Sun enters first point of Capricorn. 
Sun's entry in Capricorn was on 14 January 2003, at 17 hrs 25 
minutes which was Tuesday. Lord of the day was Mars. 

Lord of Clouds is decided on the basis of the planet which 
rales the day on which Sun enters first point of Ardra. Sun entered 
Sunday June 22 at 14 58. The lord is Sun. 

Lord of Corns is decided on the basis of the planet which 
rules the day on which Sun enters first point of Sagittarius. Sun 
entry into Sagittarius was on Tuesday 16 December 2003 at 12 hrs 
59 minutes. Lord is Mars. 

Lord of Fluids is decided on the basis of the planet which 
rules the day on which Sun enters first point of Gemini. 

The Sun entered Gemini on Sunday, 15 June at 15 hrs 19 minutes. 
The lord was Sun. 


Chapter X 


Mundane-Rasi Sanghatta Chakra 
- Nakshatra Sanghatta Chakra 


Taken from article by K.N. Rao "Prism of a Prediction”. 

Use of Chakras in Mundane Astrology 

In the Padma Purana there is the story of Lord Dashratha 
being warned by astrologers that Saturn's entry'in Rohini (Taurus 
10° to 13°20') cause devastating war. 

India was involved in both world wars 1914-18 and 1939- 
45 when Saturn was in Rohini. And in 1971 there was war with 
Pakistan. 

It has been observed that when other malefics like Rahu 
Ketu transit in Rohini and are aspected by Mars, war or war like 
situation takes place. In the months of May and June 1984 
concentration of planets in Rohini aspected by Mars opened a 
chapter of blood stained history in Punjab. 

In the context of Punjab problem it may be seen that no war 
or war like situation can take place unless Saturn. Mars and Rahu 
meet and plan out scheme of destruction. 

An important Chakra prescribed by lord Shiva which 
a great Mahatma had recommended to K.N. Rao _ is 
Sanghatta Chakra of two types, one for the Rasi. Other for the 
Nakshatras. 

Many a times when Parasara aspect seem to be absent, 
Chakra aspects ignite. In the 30th May 1984, eclipse it would 
appear that Saturn and Rahu not mutually aspecting each other 
but now look at the Sanghatta chart. 


514 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


30th May, 1984 Eclipse 


For a war or war like situation to break out Mars and Saturn 
must join. If the aspects of Parasara exist even then they must be 
reexamined through Chakra aspect for precision. So the following 
may be seen. 


Mundane 515 


a) In October 1962, Saturn Ketu in Capricorn and Mars Rahu in 
Cancer fully aspected each other. On October 20 they were 
fully conjunct at 11 degrees. War with China broke out. 

20 October 1962 War with China 


Asd 6°12’, Sun 3°26’, Moon 6°55’, Mars 11°09’,Mercury 15°21’, 
Jupiter R 9°36', Venus 4° 10’, Saturn 11 °31’, Rahu 11 °54. 

b) In 1965 August-September Rahu was in Taurus, Mars in 
Libra and Saturn in Aquarius. Apparently Mars and Saturn 
were not aspecting each other but on Sanghatta Chakra 
the aspect is full. War with Pakistan broke out. 


1st September, 1965 


516 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


Rasi Sanghata Chakra 
War of 1963 


5 & F & 
Son Yen Moon Ket 
Mars 


c) Indo Pakistan War over Bangla Desh 
312.1971 


and Padam Purana warning about war fully manifested when 
Mars from Aquarius aspected Saturn. This combination was 
devastating on Sanghatta Nakshatra Chakra. 


Mundane 517 


Lagna 15°21’,Sun 16°,27', (AnuradhaNak 17.), Moon 22°32’, 
Rohini Nak., Mars 21 °30' (Poorva Bhadra 25) Mercury 4°40', 
9 (MoolaNak. No. 9) Jupiter 22° 17’, Jyeshta 18, Venus 11°4' 
Moola 19, Saturn 9°01’, Krittika 3 Rahu 13°17', Sharavan 22, 
Ketu 13°17’, Pushya 17. 

Nakshatra Sanghatta Chart 


KAKA 
. TY YY need ” 


OW 


In this Saturn and Mars are aspecting each other which may mean 
war. 


1a 


Chapter XI 
Conjunction - Opposition of Planets 


(Based on Articles by K.N. Rao) 

In mundane astrology conjunction of heavy planets is 
extremely important. These indicate great events and changes and 
* are turning points in the history of nations. Whenever, Saturn, Jupiter, 
Mars, Rahu/Ketu, any two planets conjoin or come in opposition or 
are in Kendra from each other important events happen. 

I Saturn Jupiter is the most important conjunction which occurs 
every 20 years. The first conjunction falling in each triplicity is 
known as "Great Mutation" has a very important and lasting effect, 
and when the places of other conjunctions, eclipses, and lunation 
which occur after it fall thereon, or in opposition thereto, major 
events are triggered. 

Results of this Conjunction: 

1. Dr. B.V. Raman observes that U.S.A President elected under 
or about the time of this combination dies in office. Instances have 
been given of death of President Garfield, Abraham Lincoln, 
President Roosevelt and President Kennedy. 

2. In recent history on 8 August, 1940, the Saturn - Jupiter 
conjunction took place in Aries. Both the planets become retrograde 
and again became conjunct on 10 October 1940. The results were 
1. Intensification of Civil Disobedience movement in India which 
ultimately led to India's independence 

2. Attack on Russia by Hitler. 

3. Japan's attack on Pearl Harbour. , 


Attack on Pearl Harbour, 7 November 1941 


Conjunction-Opposition of Planets 519 


Again this conjunction took place in 1961 which had far 
reaching implications. In India the Chinese started nibbling at Indian 
territory which ultimately led to the humiliating defeat of India in 
October 1962. 

In Unites States there was a great fiasco at ‘Bay of Pigs’ 
and there was great confrontation of USA with Russia over missile 
crisis in Cuba and both the countries came very much close to a 
nuclear war. 

There was birth of great Civil Rights movement for grant 

of equal rights to black Americans who lived there in pitiable 
conditions since the era of slavery . 
Rest of the world saw end of colonial era. New states won their 
freedom. The Americans suffered a humiliating defeat in Vietnam 
According to K.N, Rao it is necessary to remember that dramatic 
changes do not happen immediately after the conjunction or 
opposition of Saturn and Jupiter. It is only when Mars conjoins or 
aspects it, the process appears very dramatic, violent and is 
remembered as a historical landmark In 1989: September - 
November, Saturn and Jupiter opposed each other (Saturn in 
Sagittarius and Retrograde Jupiter in Gemini), accelerated the 
process of historical world changes. The collapse of Berlin wall 
and break up of the Soviet Union. In Russia it gave birth to 
Pereestroika and Glasnost, the reforms initiated by Secretary Mikhail 
Gorbachev 


4 10 Nov 1989 
Collepse of Berlin 


In India there was fall of Congress Government and VP. Singh of 
Janta Government unleashed Mandal Commission Report which 


520 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


ushered in the caste politics in India with far reaching effects. 
1991 was a fateful year. The Gulf war started with the American 
attack on Iraq in January 1991, Saturn, Jupiter were in opposition, 
Sun, Saturn, Moon and Rahu were within 1 degree and there was 
exact conjunction of Saturn - Rahu on 21 January 1991 in 
Capricorn. The air attack of US forces on Iraq began. 


Gulf War 1991 


In India Rajiv Gandhi was assassinated on 21 May 1991. There 
was opposition of Jupiter, Mars with Saturn. 
II According to Kumaraswamiyam "If Saturn, Mars and Rahu 
conjoin or oppose each other, there will be heavy loss of human life 
all over the world.” The conjunction of Mars and Jupiter occurs 
every twenty seven months, conjunction of Mars and Saturn about 
every two years, conjunction of Jupiter and Saturn every twenty 
years etc. These conjunctions have serious repercussions in the 
signs in which these take place and their effects last for considerable 
time 
Ill-Saturn Rahu Conjunction, Opposition and Kendras 
position from each other: 
Rahu Saturn is an evil combination. This is the combination of two 
destructive energies and bring much misery in the world. Rahu is 
also a Muslim and a foreigner. Indian History is replete with the 
instances when this combination has brought misery to Hindus on 
an unprecedented scale. 

Mohammed Bin-Qasim invaded Sindh in AD 711-712, 
defeated King Dahar. "For three days the inhabitants of Debacle 
were ruthlessly slaughtered. The local temple was defiled and 


Conjunction-Opposition of Planets 521 


"hundreds of beautiful females and thousands of persons were 
made slaves. Booty worth crores of rupees was carried away ." 
Chach-namah. 

The horoscope for the year 711 AD. is as follows : 


Notice the aspect of Saturn on Makar Rasi and its being in Kendra 
from Rahu and Mars and Ketu with Mars. 
Black Year for India 1018-1019 AD 
Mahmud of Ghaznavi's Invasion of India 

Mahmud of Ghaznavi started on mission of loot ,rape massacre 
and forcible conversion to Islam. He crossed Yamuna on 2" 
December, 1018. Defeated local kings. Hindu women jumped into 
the river to save themselves from being dishonoured. But his greatest 
atrocities were committed in the sacred city of Mathura. This city 
was studded with magnificent temples. The city had an aura of 
grandeur. Muslim historians had estimated the worth of temples 
hundreds and crores of rupees in those days. It is estimated that 
masons must have taken 200 years to complete them. Among the 
large number of idols in the temple, five were made of pure gold, 
the eyes of one of them were laid with two rubies worth one hundred 
thousand Dinars, and other had a sapphire of a very heavy weight. 
All these five idols yielded gold weighing 98,300 Miskals. The idols 
made of silver numbered 200. The city has been said to be raised 
to the ground and all temples set ablaze. The idols of gold and 
silver were looted. The choicest of women were raped and carried 
away in slavery and the city was pillaged for 20 days. 


522 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


Saturn was at that time in Capricorn, the sign used by 
Varahamihira for India and was squaring Rahu Ketu axis. Mars 
was about to join Ketu. 


VenRuh 
SunMer 
Mazch 1019 


1192 AD: Mohammed Ghauri defeats Prithvi Raj Chauhan. There 
was Saturn Rahu conjunction in Gemini / Dhanu axis. 

1398 AD: Timur invades India and sacked Delhi. There was a 
slaughter of human beings unprecedented in history. There was 
Rahu Saturn conjunction in Scorpio / Taurus axis. Mars was 
in Aries and squaring Jupiter in Cancer and aspecting Saturn Rasi. 
In recent times there was conjunction of Saturn Rahu in Gemini on 
7 June, 1945. Its results were 

End of Imperialism and Dawn of Atomic Age: On July 26,1945 
Atomic Bomb was dropped on Hiroshima. 

August 6, 1945 - Second Atomic Bomb dropped on Nagasaki, Japan. 
Conjunction of Saturn Rahu in Scorpio Rasi on 17-10-1956 
France is thrown out of Indo China. 

Colonel Nasser ushers, in era of Arab nationalism and becomes 
President of Egypt. 

Nationalization of Suez Canal and its aftermath of Franco English 
war against Egypt and danger of world war when Russia threatens 
to use nuclear weapons against England and France. 

Revolt in Hungary and Russian invasion of Hungary. 
Conjunction of Saturn Rahu in 1979 

1 February, 1979. Ayatollah Khomeini returns to Iran after 14 years 
of exile. 

April 1, Iran proclaimed Islamic Republic. 

4 April, Zulifkar Ali Bhutto executed in Pakistan. 

1! July Skylab plunges down off western coast of Australia. 


Conjunction-Opposition of Planets 523 


Conjunction of Saturn Rahu 1990 - 91(21 January, 1991): 
On June 2 1990, there was major earthquake in Iran, 2140,000 
-persons were killed. 

Iraq invaded Iran as well as Kuwait 

1990 -August. In an overnight attack, Iraq captures Kuwait. The 
Emir of Kuwait flees the country. Iraq annexes Kuwait. 


Attack on America 
World Trade Centre: September 11, 2001 


EIN 


Nime Eleven Attack 
on Anrica 2001 


Fiery Mars with 7° 40" is conjunct Ketu 9°13’ in a war like sign 
Sagittarius both in the fiery Nakshatras Moola of Ketu opposing 
Jupiter in Gemini sign of USA in the Nakshatra of malefic Rahu. 
Moon is with malefic Saturn who is in the Rohini Nakshatra. 

5 June 2002 to 23 July 2002: Rahu enters Taurus on 28 February 
2002 and stays there most of the year. Saturn was there till 23 July. 
Saturn again retrogrades in Taurus on January 8,2003. There was 
Saturn Rahu conjunction. It was a period of difficulty ,communal 
riots, terrorist attacks, turmoil and danger of war. 

There was communal carnage in Gujarat because of the incident 
at Godhara on 27 February when Sabarmati express carrying Hindu 
Karsevaks were burnt. This was followed by reprisals all over 
Gujarat and India. This has been discussed separately in the chapter 
on Rahu's entry in Taurus. 


524 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


America attacks Iraq: 20 March, 2003, 5 :35 AM 
20.3. 2003: 5 35 A.M, Baghdad Iraq 


America launched massive missile and rocket attack on Baghdad 
to kill the leadership of Iraq. This leads to full-scale invasion of 
Iraq. The Baathist regime of Iraq is overthrown in a short war. 
There was Saturn-Rahu conjunction in Taurus. 


Chapter XH 
Predicting Events on Yearly Basis - India 2002 


For making prediction about the year 2002 or for that matter 
for any year for India or any other country we will need following 
horoscopes: 


1. 


Ze 
3. 


Horoscope of Independent India with Navamsa together 

with its Dasha scheme. 

Sarvashtak Varga chart . 

Hindu New Year Horoscope - Chaitra Shukla Pratipada of 
2001 and 2002. We need horoscope for 2001 also as it will 
show events upto April 2002, whereas events from April 2002 
would be ascertained from horoscope for 2002. The horoscope 
for 2001 would be based on 25 March 2001, 6 hrs 51 minutes, 
while that of 2002 would be cast for 13 April 2002, 0051 hrs 
Horoscopes of Sun' Ingress- Sanskranti (Surya Viddhi) 
into all the twelve signs. 

Horoscope of the New Moon and Full Moon for giving 

predictions on day to day basis and on fortnightly basis. 

Annual Horoscope or Varshaphala for a particular year. In 

this case for year 2001 and 2002 as the annual year starts on 

15* August. 

Rasi Sanghatta Chakra, Koorma Chakra. 

Date of entry of Venus in Mithun Rasi. Its implications 

have been explained in a separate chapter "Entry of Venus in 

Gemini and effect on Central Government”. 

In the year 2002 Venus entered Mithun on May 15 and stayed 

there till 15 June. Check whether it is in any way being afflicted. 

The major events for the year 2002 were as follows : 

i) May 1, Venus is about to enter Mithun- There was an 
Opposition sponsored motion to censure the 
Government in the Lok Sabha on riots in Gujarat . 

ii) On 10 May Patna bound Shramjeevi Express derailed 
near Jaunpur killing and injuring many passengers. 

iti) Terrorists strike in Jammu killing 23 armed personnel 
and their families., violence in Ahmedabad. 

iv) 17 May troops along Indo Pakistan border exchange 
heavy gunfire. Army kills 10 Pakistan soldier and 
destroys many bunkers. 


526 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


v) Prime Minister Vajpayee asked Jawans to be ready 
for decisive battle. 
vi) First time in the history of UTI no dividend was paid. 
9. Dates of retrogression, of becoming direct and of change 
of Rasis of planets. 
In 2002 Jupiter entered Cancer sign on July 5. Saturn entered 
Mithun on 23 July and became retrograde in Taurus on January 
8,2003. 
Rahu entered Taurus on 28 February. Rahu and Saturn were 
in Taurus from January 2003. Its implications have been 
explained in a separate chapter on "Entry of Rahu/ Saturn in 
Taurus and its effects." This is an important chapter and 
contains original researches of K.N. Rao which has made an 
important contribution in predicting events in mundane astrology. 
10. Solar and Lunar Eclipses in the year 2002 and their 
implication. 
i) Ifin any particular year there is lunar and solar eclipse within a 
fortnight there are chances of war if other factors are there. 
ii) There were a solar eclipse on June 10-11 which is partly visible 
in India in extreme eastern parts and on 4 December 2002, 
beginning 1Qhrs 21 minutes ending 15 hrs 41 minutes, duration Shr 
20 minutes. This will not be visible in India but will be visible in 
Africa except northern part, Australia, Indonesia, Indian ocean, 
part of pacific ocean. 
The horoscope cast for this time with 0 degree latitude is as follows: 


Solar Eclipse 
4.12 2002 


SunMon Ven 
Mei Ket Mar 


Predicting Events on Yearly Basis 527 


Result: Affliction to 3rd/9th houses. Tension and war like conditions 

among neighbours, Palestine, Israel, India /Pakistan. 

There was lunar eclipses on 26 May, 15 hrs 43 minutes, June 24 

- Visible in India. Also on November 20 at 05 hrs 02 minutes 

beginning. 

1. Transit Position of-planets and its effects, conjunction, 
opposition etc. This year Rahu entered Taurus Rasi on 
28.2.2002, And Saturn remained in Taurus till July 23. It was 
again retrograde in Taurus on January 8, 2003. This had a very 
sinister implication for the world and in India its effects were 
communal riots, warlike situation, famine discontent and 
frustration. Special chapter has been devoted to effect of Rahu 
/ Saturn in Taums. 

On 15" May 2002 there was a concentration of all the 
planets including Rahu, Saturn and Mars excepting Jupiter 
(Ketu in any case is always opposite to Rahu). Jupiter will 
be in Gemini. This is an evil combination. There was a 
heavy concentration of troops on the border with heavy 
exchange of fire. Army took control of all paramilitary 
forces. Government put all merchant ships on alert and 
Prime Minister Vajpayee asked Jawans to be ready for 
decisive battle. 

Stay of Mars in a Rasi for more than six months: According to’ 
K.N. Rao If Mars stays in a Rasi for more than 6 months in a 
particular year it causes evil results. 

(Average stay of Mars in a Rasi is 45 days approximately). Normally 
it happens once in three years. 

2. Determining the Planetary Cabinet for the year and its , 
implications. 

3. Horoscopes of the political parties. 

4. Horoscope of the Prime Minister of the Country. 

5. . Horoscope of the swearing in ceremony of the Cabinet. 

16. Dasha Scheme in India's Independent Horoscope 
Balance of Dasha of Yoga Karka Saturn 18 years 27 days. 
Saturn 15 .8 1947 to 3.9.1965 
Mercury 3.9. 1965 - 4.9.1982 
Ketu 4.9, 1982 to 3.9.1989 


528 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


Venus - 3.9.1989 to 3.9.2009: Advent of TV - Beauty contests - 
western style morals and living, 

Mahadasha Venus- Jupiter - 4.11.99 to 5.7.2002. This would 
be followed by Venus Saturn from 5.7.2002 to 3.9 2005. 
Interpretation of Mahadasha of Venus: Advent of TV. 
Telecommunication revolution in India as Venus as Lagna lord is 
making excellent Raj Yogas with Yoga Karkas Saturn as also with 
lord of 2" and five as also with lord of wealth and 5" house 
Mercury which has led to phenomenal progress of IT industry and 
India earning huge reserves of foreign exchange. In telecom sector 
India has become one of the most advanced countries in the world. 

There is also great progress in film industry with films like 
Lagaan and Devdas becoming big hits in the international arena. 
Today Bollywood is vying with Hollywood in glamour, name and 
fame. 

This Dasha has also seen Indian girls earning world beauty 
titles and great strides in producing jewellery and fashion designs. 

Since Venus is with Saturn there is departure from the 
traditional values. There will be much exposure of sex and fashion 
shows. Indian women will break away from traditional shackles 
and take important roles in music, dance drama, TV, films and 
beauty contests. 

The Dasha of Venus as Lagna lord would have made India 
one of the most progressive states but for the fact that Venus is 
combust. Its closeness to Saturn has also given diseases like Aids 
and addiction to drugs etc. 

Venus is also the 6* lord of war and diseases and since 
there is concentration of planet in the third house of neighbours the 
border wars has become a permanent feature of India. There will 
be onslaught of diseases. As it is spread of AIDS is taking alarming 
proportion. 

Venus is also with Saturn the planet of masses and 
depressed classes or Dalits who will influence the political set up 
in the country. Saturn is also Yoga Karka being lord of 9" and 10". 
Hence the caste considerations will have upper hand in the polity 
of the nation. Being Yoga Karka Saturn would also mean that the 
masses especially the Dalits, OBCs and the Schedule castes, 


Predicting Events on Yearly Basis 529 


schedule tribes would have a major say in formation of governments. 
The aristocracy and upper castes would be relegated to a secondary 
position. 

The Antardasha lord is Jupiter, lord of 8" and 11" for this 
Lagna and hence malefic. It is in the enemy Rasi also, that makes 
it unprincipled and braggadocio. In the sign of Venus in the 6" it 
becomes fond of sex and high life without much moral values. 
However, there will be great interest in music and art. Though the 
music and dance would not be of traditional values but more of 
Bhangra and Rap type. It is also aspecting the 9" and 12th lord 
Mars and is making Vipreet Raj Yoga by being 8" lord in the 6”. 
While there be gains in foreign related enterprises not much progress 
would be made in creating communal harmony. 

Jupiter is placed in Uppachaya house where this is 
aspecting tenth, twelfth and 2" house of wealth. As Uppachaya 
house this would give increasingly good results, since this is house 
of growth. As Karka for wealth it is aspecting tenth house as also 
the second house which is good for the finances of the country. 
However, for lord of eleven to be in the 6" is not good for financial 
gains. 

Hindu New Year 2002 April 13, 2002, 00 51 Hrs (12 April: 
24 51 hrs) 


Lagna 19°59', Sun 28° 59' Revati, Moon 28° 59’ Revati, 
Mars 5° 28' Krittika, Mercury 4° 49’ Ashvini, Venus 20° 17’ Bharani, 
Sat 17° 38' Rohini, Rahu 25 ° 25' Mrigsira, Ketu Jyeshta . 


530 . Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


Navamsa 


The 12™ April was Friday. Technically, Saturday starts at midnight 
at 00.00 Hrs when date changes but According to Hindu calendar 
day is from sunrise to sunrise. Therefore, lord of the year would be 
Venus of Friday and not Saturn of Saturday as some Panchangs 
state. 


The results of different planets becoming lord of a particular year 
have been given in a separate chapter. In this particular case Venus 
is the Raja. Venus has got the evil lordship of six and 11 in this 
horoscope. It is also in ‘Pap Kartari’ Yoga and one of its signs 
Taums has three malefics Mars Saturn and Rahu. It is/however, in 
the auspicious fifth house aspecting its own house of gains and it is 
also with the 10 lord meaning the Prime Minister of the country 
inspite of the criticism would remain popular and country would be 
well off financially inspite of setbacks. 

The results of Venus as lord of the year is given by Varahamihira 
as follows: "During the year presided over by Venus there will be 
happiness and prosperity all round". There will be food and water, 
wining and dining and merry making. There will be victory to the 
kings, and the enemies will be humbled. (It will be a Feel Good 
year!) 


The First House 
Lagna is aspected by its own lord which gives the nation 
health and vitality. It is aspected by Jupiter, which is a 
planet for expansion and optimism. Since it is aspecting 
from the 7" house the relations with a prosperous country 


Predicting Events on Yearly Basis 531 


(USA) would be good who will understand India's point of 
view. Lagna is also aspected by afflicted Mars from the 
6" house, house of war (Enemy will create troubles but 
nation has the strength to face the enemy and come out 
victorious.) 


Second House 
Lord of the second house is Saturn. It is in the 6" house 
with Mars and Rahu. The position of lord of wealth is not 
good in the 6 house. Here it is with Mars meaning 
expenditure on armaments. Since this is also with Rahu, 
great deal of money will be spent on defense in a war like 
condition. 


Third House 
Third lord in the 6" means border clashes. Third lord Mars 
is with Saturn and Rahu which shows heightened crisis at 
the border and likelihood of war. 
Since third lord is Mars it may cause accidents in railways, 
fire and agitation. 
It is also a Vipreet Raj Yoga which means great strides in 
telecommunication, satellites launching, radio and television. 
(Rahu is radio). Steel and defense production (Mars). 


Fourth House 

Sun is the 9" lord with 8" lord Moon in the fourth house. 
Ram Janam Bhoomi controversy will revive. There will be 
criticism of the government though because of presence 
of Sun and its dispositor Jupiter in the 7 (Pad Prapati) 
government will remain fully entrenched inspite of criticism. 
There will be new finds in underground mines and minerals. 
The problem relating to religious matters like Ram Janam 
Bhoomi may be initiated in secrecy or since the 8” lord is 
involved there are chances of its breakdown. 


Fifth House 
Fifth house relates to children, birth rate, education, 
all forms of national pleasures and entertainment, 
theatre, cinema sports, public park, speculation and stock 


532 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


exchange. Morals, immorality, scandals, crimes relating to 
immorality. High society and functions. Upper house of 
Parliament, Rajya Sabha, House of lords schools, 
educational places Ambassadors and diplomats from foreign 
countries Danger to ruler as it is 8" from 10". 

There is interchange between 5" and 6" lords. This is also 
interchange of Mars and Venus. Entertainment take form 
of vulgarity, nudity and sex exploitation which is depicted 
in film and literature, magazines etc. 

There are two benefics in the fifth house. Mercury as lord 
of tenth and 7" in fifth is creating a Raj Yoga while there is 
interchange between 5™ and sixth house where Rahu is 
located. Rahu is also exalted. While entertainment industry 
will flourish and there might be big gains from IT industry 
(because of Rahu), since 5* lord is in the sixth also and is 
with malefics the gains may not be as great as anticipated. 
Since this house is also 8" from tenth it shows longevity of 
government. Since there are two benefic planets in this 
house, government will continue to remain in office but 
because of interchange with the 6" there will remain 
bickering among the cabinet members and not so savory 
incidents may take place. 


Fifth in the sixth may also mean illness amongst children 
and problems in the educational field. 

Since fifth also deals with stock exchanges, two benefics 
here may show stability but interchange with the 6" is not 
good for the healthy grow of stock exchange. 


Sixth House : 

Sixth House represents armed forces, territorial attacks - 
war also. Labour classes, labour unions strikes, State loans 
and debts. Medical and other services and diseases in 
general. 

The presence of three malefics will create war like frenzy. 
India and Pakistan had both mobilized their troops in May 
-June and were poised for a war. The Prime Minister Shri 
Vajpayee had even asked Jawans to be prepared for the 
final war. Since there was an interchange with the 5" house 


Predicting Events on Yearly Basis 533 


there was a last minute withdrawal from the brink because 
of heavy pressure from USA. There were chances that 
war may go nuclear as President of Pakistan Musharaff 
had openly claimed, involving untold misery on the 
subcontinent. 

Finances and Debt: 2" lord Saturn in 6th is not good for 
finances but it is also with 5 and 12” lord which may 
infuse foreign funds from abroad. 

Three malefics in the 6" house will assure victory in case 
of war and combination of 5" lord in 6" and 3™ lord Saturn 
also in the sixth causing Vipreet Raj Yoga will ensure 
expenditure on modernization of armed forces with the 
help of foreigners (role of Rahu and Mars as lord of 
twelve.) The sixth lord relating to armed forces is well 
placed in the fifth with benefic Mercury. It may show 
acquisition of sophisticated arms by the armed forces 
especially its air and naval wings. 

Sixth lord Venus is with 10" lord Mercury in the 5" house. 
Venus represents women, and Mercury denotes youth. 
There will be increasing role of women in government, 
educational and literary fields as also in sports. This year 
is also the year of women. 


Seventh House 

The placement of Jupiter, Lagna lord in the 7” is very good 
especially when lord of seven Mercury is in the fifth with a 
benefic planet. Since Jupiter represents capitalism the 
relations with foreign countries especially America will 
improve. Treaties and agreements will be signed and the 
prestige of country will rise high. Women will be happy 
and will be honoured. Since Jupiter is significator for religion 
and spiritualism its aspect on Lagna will make people more 
spiritual and undertake pilgrimages to holy places. 


534 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


Fighth House 
There is no planet in the eighth house which is good. The 
house is, however, aspected by Saturn. Saturn is lord of 
two and three and may cause some accidents of 
rail or air. There may be heavy loss of revenue and wastage 
of public money. 
The health of the cabinet or important personalities 
would be good on the whole excepting some ailments 
suffered by head of the sate, government or important 
person. 
The lord of eight Moon is in the fourth. Its role has been 
discussed in the fourth house. The opposition will be in 
disarray. 


Ninth House 
The 9" lord Sun is in the fourth house of education which is 
good for the progress in education and field of research. It is 
with the 8" lord Moon. Moon represents chemicals, liquids, so 
there may be advancement in chemical and medical fields. 
(Sun is doctor). 


Tenth House 
There is no planet in the 10" house. It is aspected by Sun, 
lord of five which is good for the overall smooth running of 
cabinet. However, it is with 8" lord Moon that may bring 
some unexpected problems for the Cabinet. The 10” lord 
is Mercury, which is a benefic which is good for cabinet. 


Eleventh House 

The 11" lord Venus is in the fifth with Mercury planet of 
communication and trade. It is aspecting its own house 
which augurs well for gains from trade, communication 
and ¥/T industry. Many agreements may also be signed 
with foreign countries. International relations will improve 
and nation may have a good name in the comity of 
nations. 


Predicting Events on Yearly Basis 535 


Twelfth House 

The twelfth house has Ketu aspected by Saturn and Mars. 
Foreign spies will be active. Many conspiracies will be 
hatched against the state. There will be much expenditure 
and great amount of money will be squandered and 
misappropriated. Organized crime will flourish. 

The twelfth lord Mars is in the sixth badly mauled aspecting 
its own house which while giving strength to the house 
would cause many financial scandals. 


Chapter XIII 
Earthquakes 


In recorded history more than 15 million people have died in 
earthquakes or because of earthquake after-effects such as 
landslides, fires and tidal waves. In its most devastating form, an 
earthquake can wipe out an entire community in minutes. A list of 
major earthquakes of the world is given in the appendix. 

Earthquakes result from the stain caused by movement of 
the places that make up the Earth's outer shell and are directly 
associated with the activity that occur at ocean ridges, trenches 
and. faults. If the Earth's crust cannot accommodate itself to the 
strain it breaks up, releasing tremendous amount of energy in the 
form of sudden violent shocks. 

The most intense earthquake activity is round the margin of 
the Pacific in the Circum —Pacific belt. About 75% of all shallow 
earthquakes, 90% of intermediate earthquakes and almost all deep 
earthquakes take place in this belt. It snakes its way up the west 
coast of South American, loops through the Caribbean and backs 
up at the west coast of North America to Alaska and across to 
Asia., Indonesia, New Zealand and the Antarctic. 

Another belt spreads across the Alps and North Africa., along 
the northern shores of the Mediterranean, eastwards through Iran 
and the HIMALAYAS, then through Southern China to join the 
Circum - Pacific belt. 

From the amplitude, or size, of the recorded waves, 
seismologists can determine the magnitude of the earthquakes. 
EARTHQUAKE MAGNITUDE is a measure of the seismic energy 
released at the focus, graded according to Richter Scale named 
after Charles F, Richter, a Californian seismologist, who devised it. 
The Richter scale of magnitude is logarithmic; this means a shock 
of magnitude 8 emits waves with an amplitude ten times greater 
than that of waves emitted by magnitude 7 shock, 100 times greater 
than that of waves emitted by a magnitude 6 and so on. 

The very largest earthquakes ever recorded have magnitude 
of about 8.9 on the Richter scale, but fortunately they are very 
uncommon. An earthquake with a magnitude greater than 8.5 occurs 


Earthquakes 537 


somewhere in the world once every five to 10 year, By contrast, 
more than 300,000 shocks with magnitude in the range of 2.2-2.9 
occur every year. 

The reasons for the earthquake to happen are being studied 
by scientists all over the world. The latest study conducted by United 
States Geological Survey have predicted that there will be major 
earthquake in San Francisco by 2030 which would cause devastation 
on an unprecedented scale involving loss of billions of dollars. 
K.N. Rao Journal of Astrology January March 2002 

While there are various reasons for this strain to occur and 
scientists all over the world will keep on arguing the subject has 
been dealt with in details by Hindu Maharishis and astrologers. It 
has been established that there are astrological factors which are 
responsible for aggravating the situation. In India there was a major 
earthquake at Bhuj Gujarat of more than 8 Richter scale on 26 
January 2001. In which more than 30,000 persons died. This 
earthquake was predicted by K.N. Rao in the magazine Week of 
14 January 2001. 

It was Garga Maharishi who gave us predictive techniques 
for forecasting earthquakes Russians have now established that 
eclipses and new and full Moon have a great role in causing seismic 
activity. 

A research team has been formed in Bhartiya Vidya Bhavan 
under the guidance of K.N. Rao to study major causes of the 
earthquakes. The first result has been published in an article which 
appeared in April-June 2001 in Journal Of Astrology. This research 
team has studied 170 of the severe earthquakes and have found 
that 
i) 55.8 per cent of the earthquakes have occurred during the 

period covering the 5 Tithis i.e. 2 Tithis immediately preceding 

new Moon or full Moon including day of the new Moon and 
full Moon and two Tithis just following the new Moon or full 

Moon including day of the new Moon and full Moon. 

ii) 33.5 per cent of earthquakes have occurred during 14th to 

{st Tithi including intervening new Moon/full Moon. 
iit) 17 per cent of the earthquake have occurred during new 

Moon/full Moon. 


538 


Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


Other Factors responsible for Earthquakes: 
Role of Eclipses: 


1. 


Earthquakes normally follow close on the heels of eclipses 
and especially in the countries where eclipses occur in the 
10th or the fourth houses. 

According to western astrologers if there are any planet in 
fixed signs at the moment of eclipse, then earthquake will 
occur in those parts of the world where such planets are 
either rising, setting or culminating or on the Nadir. Thus, if at 
an eclipse the planet Saturn should be 30 degrees from the 
meridian, then earthquake will occur in that part of the world 
which is the same distance from Greenwich, east or west 
according to position of Saturn. 

At the time of earthquake there will be many malefic aspects 
or conjunction of malefic planets. These malefic planets will 
form an aspect with previous eclipses. An eclipse may be 
forerunner of earthquake, but earthquakes will not happen 
unless there are many aspects with the eclipse. 

Signs Taurus and Scorpio are notorious for earthquakes 
especially when Saturn, Rahu, Mars and Jupiter are in the 
signs. Taurus especially has the Rohini Nakshatra the 
implication of which has been explained separately. ” 
Jupiter in Taurus or Scorpio and having aspect, Conjunction 
of Mercury causes frequent earthquakes. 

The position of planets at each ingress of Sun into Aries, 
Cancer, Libra and Capricorn and at the time of New Moon 
should be observed. Note the countries in whose 4th house 
the malefic planets are placed or have aspect should be noted. 
There might be some seismic disturbance. 

Concentration of planets at the beginning of movable signs 
(within 1 degree) Aries, Cancer, Libra and Capricorn. 

The countries and localities in which earthquakes will happen 
can be ascertained as follows. First with reference to the 
sign ruling different countries and cities especially with 
reference to four quarterly ingresses of Sun and noting the 
longitude in which eclipses occur. 


Earthquakes 539 


The timings of occurrences of earthquakes have been noticed 
between midday and sunset or between midnight and sunrise. 
A major planet, Saturn, Jupiter or Mars have been found to 
be retrograde at the time of earthquakes. 

Major planets in Kendras or Trikonas from each other 
contribute to occurrence of earthquake. 

Placement of Moon and Mercury in the same Nakshatra. 
There is importance attached to airy and earthy signs on day 
of earthquake. 

In some cases earth has been found to be nearest to Sun at 
the time of earthquake. 

The 1 st, 4th, 7th, 8th, 10th or 12th houses have been found to 
be afflicted at the time of earthquakes. 

The western astrologers put great emphasis on the role of 
extra terrestrial planets Uranus, Neptune and Pluto in causing 
earthquakes. Even a foreign scientist was constrained to point 
out that in majority of the cases when earthquakes happened 
the planet Uranus was almost directly overhead the place of 
origin. The placement of Uranus in signs Taums and Scorpio 
has sinister meanings. If Neptune has gravitational effect on 
Uranus then both Neptune and Uranus would have combined 
effect of gravitational pull on the earth. However, this needs 
detailed study and research and its results would be published 
in our future researches. 


Earthquake of Bihar 16.1.1934 


540 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


Asd_ 13°50', Sun 20°27’, Moon 11°30’, Mar 22°03’, 
Mer 29°57’, Jupiter 29°30', Venus 00°41’, Saturn 23°08’, 
Rahu 26°27’ 

Saturn Mars and Moon are in Sravan Nakshatra, Sun and 
Mercury in Uttar Ashada, Jupiter in Chitra of Mars and Venus also 
in Dhanishta of Mars. 

There was a solar eclipse on 21.8. 1933 in 5/11 axis. At that 
time Saturn and Mars were in square to each other. 

Mars and Saturn were together in Navamsa opposing Sun 
and Moon. It was also a New Moon day. 


Capricorn is traditionally used by Varahamihira as Lagna of 
India. Lagna represents eastern direction. 

Jupiter and Mercury are interchanging houses. Jupiter is at 
the end of Rasi and Venus is in the beginning. 

Note the closeness of degrees of Saturn and Mars, and 
Mercury and Jupiter. 


Earthquake of Syria on 13.8. 1822 


A great earthquake devastated Syria on 13 August. Moon 
was in Capricorn squared by Saturn from Saturn in Aries. On the 
day of earthquake Saturn was in square to place of eclipse. 


Earthquakes 541 


Earthquake In USA, South Carolina 27.6.1886 


On June 27, 1866, Mars and Jupiter were in conjunction in 
Virgo, fourth house of USA. The whole town was annihilated. 

Earthquakes of China 28.7.1976, 3:45 a.m. 

This was the earthquake of 8.2 on the Richter scale. And 
was the strongest impending disaster on the basis of "ground glows”. 
There was also unusual animal behaviour of pigs not entering their 
holes and horses and sheep running around in frenzy, and tigers 
becoming restless. 


Asd 15°46', Sun 14°16', Moon 22°25', Mars 19°16’, 
Mer 24°31’, Jupiter 3°16’, Venus 22°23’, Saturn 12°48’, 
Rahu 14°46’, Ketu 14°46' (Bharani Nakshatra) 

Moon, Mercury and Venus were in Ashlesha Nakshatras. 


542 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


Navamsa 


There are five planets aspecting 8th house of 
destruction. Jupiter and Mars are squaring each other. Note 
the closeness of Moon and Venus. On New Moon day, Moon was 
in Punarvasu Nakshatra and on the day of the earthquake it entered 
Ashlesha, the Nakshatra of Mercury-establishing connection of 
Mercury and Moon in earthquakes. In Navamsa Sun is afflicted 
by exalted Saturn. Mars is in the 8th and Saturn and Jupiter are in 
Kendras from each other. Saturn is squaring Moon and 19th lord 
Mars is in the 8th. In Chaturthamsa the destruction of property is 
clearly shown with the fourth lord Jupiter in the 6th aspected by 
violent Mars. Sun is afflicted by Saturn. Moon is in the grip of 
Rahu and 8th house is aspected by Saturn. 

Some earthquakes of modern times are being described below, 


Earthquakes 543 


1. Turkey: Earthquake of 30 October 1983. 

This occurred in Erzurum city and brought great havoc. Over 
5000 persons were injured. More than 35,000 homes were razed 
to the ground. 

The planetary position was as follows. 

1. Rahu Kern were in Taurus / Scorpio axis. Jupiter was 
conjunct Ketu. 

2. Mars was afflicting both Mercury and Moon and was 
squaring Jupiter and Rahu. 

3. Saturn was afflicting both Sun and Mercury. 

Turkey, 30 10. 1983 


a 30.10.1983 
fon Ma 
Lag Ven 


Mer 
Sun Sat 


2. Earthquake of North Pakistan and Afghanistan 1.2.1991 

This was an earthquake of the magnitude of 6.8 at the Richter 
scale. Over 1200 persons were killed and several hundreds were 
injured. 


544 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


1. There is conjunction of Saturn with Saturn and Rahu with 
opposition of Jupiter. 

2. Mars is afflicting Moon who is in 8th from traditional Lagna 
Capricorn of Afghanistan and Pakistan. 

3. There was an annular solar eclipse on 15 and 16th January. 
This position of eclipse is aspected by Jupiter and is conjunct with 
Saturn. 

Locating Places of Earthquake: 

While it is easy to locate the timings of the earthquake which 
is found out by conjunction, opposition of major planets, eclipses 
the location of the place where earthquake might occur is quite 
time consuming process. In which some help could be got by 
remembering the signs ruled by various countries. The fourth /8th 
houses from mling sign as also Lagna would be afflicted. The 
position of the new Moon ,full Moon and the signs in which eclipses 
happen provide further clue. The horoscopes for eclipses and ingress 
of Sub in all the four cardinal signs should be noted. 

2. The chart for entry of Sun in Aries is very important. For 
the earthquake to happen 8th and fourth houses assume importance. 
They should be severely afflicted. It should be remembered 8th 
house shows mass tragedies. 

The eclipse in a particular year should be under malefic aspect 
for the earthquake to happen. 

Interconnection between Mercury and Saturn, and Mercury 
behind the Sun should be noted. 

The affliction to Mercury by Saturn or Mars and their aspect 
on Lagna and 8th house should be taken note of. 

If the Nakshatras of Moon, Rohini, Hasta and Sravan are 
occupied by lord of or a malefic planet, it may cause earthquake. 

The planets Saturn, Jupiter, Rahu or Ketu and Mars arr 
normally found in at least one earthy sign at time of earthquake. 
Alternatively Mercury or 8th lord are afflicted. 

The position of above planets in airy signs is equally important 
with Mars in earthy sign. 

The eclipses should be carefully noted The planets affected 
by it give a clue to happening of earthquake. 


Earthquakes 5A5 


The time when a planet becomes retrograde or when it 
becomes direct has its implication in timing major events of history. 

In the light of above let us study some of the devastating 
earthquakes. 
Earthquake of Gujarat 26.1. 2001, 8: 46 AM 

This was one of the most potent earthquakes which caused 
destruction on a very large scale and shook the foundation of Indian 
economy. It occurred in Bhuj, 65 miles northeast of Jamnagar. This 
earthquake was so powerful that its effect Was felt throughout 
Northwest India and much of Pakistan. Its reverberations were 
heard as far as Nepal and Bangladesh. This place was also earlier 
devastated by an earthquake on June 16, 1819.. In this tragedy 
more than 18, 602 people lost their life and 166,836 people were 
injured. Six hundred people became homeless, and 3,32,0000 houses 
were destroyed. The total loss was estimated to be equivalent to 
13 billion dollar. 
Gujarat Earthquake: 26.1.2001 8.46 AM 


Combinations for Earthquake: 

1.Saturn, Jupiter conjunction in Taums, 4th house of the 
horoscope and Lagna of India's foundation chart. This combination 
is aspected by Mars. 

2. Mercury the 8th lord of destmction with 4th lord Venus of 
property aspected by Rahu. 

Let us see now the horoscope at the time of ingress of Sun in 
Aries on 13.4. 2000 at 1725 hrs. 


546 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


Features: 


1. Four planets Saturn ,Mars, Jupiter and Sun in 8th house of 
destmction. : 

2. Lagna lord Mercury debilitated in the 7th house of death 
with Venus Marka for this Lagna with 9th aspect of Rahu. 

3. Jupiter lord of four property in 8th with three malefics. 


There was solar eclipse on 25 12.2000 at 20: 57 IST 
The planetary position is as follows: 


a 
25.12.2000 


. 2 


MO ME 
KE SUN 


If we take India's Lagna as Taurus then conjunction of 
retrograde Jupiter and Retrograde Saturn happened in Lagna. Mars 
was in the 6th and eclipse took place in the 8th house of mass 
destmction. The results were ominous. 


Chapter XIV 
Principles of Astro - Meteorology 
Based on the book “Applied Astrology, Individual Monsoon 
Forecasting and New Researches” by K.N. Rao. 

When Sun reaches and crosses 6° 40 ’ in the sign Gemini 
(Mithun) in Ardra Nakshatra (around June 22) the Monsoon arrives 
in North India and when Sun reaches 10° in Virgo (Kanya) on 
September 26, it begins to withdraw. The Moon in certain Nakshatras 
joining with other planets or when aspected by them can cause or 
hinder rain. Following principles for rain may be observed: 
Principle Nol: Though there are actually twenty-seven Nakshatras 
(Constellations), for the purpose of Astro Meteorology forecast, 
28 Nakshatras are made use of. 

Twenty-eighth Nakshatra is Abhijit and it is allotted a space towards 
the end of Uttarashada (no. 21). These 28 Nakshatras are spread 
out in seven Nadis. 


Sapt- Nadi Chakra 
Name of the Nadi and Its Lord 


Soumaya | Necra Jala Amrit 

Satum. Sun Mars Jupiter Venus Mercury 1 Moon 

Weather Good Better Best Rain 
Changes Rain Rain 


[Ee Ea Se Se ec 


Krittika Rohini Mrigsira Ardra Punarvasu | Pushva Ashlesha 
12 


i = ae aa Utrara- Poa uae 
ole ni 


L7_|4s__| __120_ 


aca oi aie pie re 
dra a 


It is well known that the entry of Sun in various Rasis and 
Nakshatras regulate the season. Venus and Mercury are always 
very close to Sun. 
Signification of seven Nadis: 
1. Parchand: Ruled by Saturn means extreme heat of the 

summer. 


548 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


Pawan: Ruled by Sun means strong hot winds of summer. 

Dahan: Ruled by Mars depicts fierce heat. 

Saumaya: Ruled by Jupiter strikes a balance between intense 

heat and soon to come cool early Monsoon showers. It is also 

called Madhya Nadi. 

5. Neer: ruled by Venus, a watery planet represents first showers 
of Monsoon. Neer means water. 

6. Jal: Ruled by Mercury. Also means water - plenty of rain of 
Monsoon. 

7. Amrita: Ruled by Moon a watery planet signifies rains in 
abundance. Torrential down pour. 

Neera, Jal and Amrit are also called Uttari or Sajala Rasis. 

Three Fold Classification: 

The sapt Nadi is divided into three categories: 

Yamtya: first three Nadis Prachand, Pawan and Dahan are known 

as Yamya Nadis. They are also called Dakshin Nadis. 

Soumaya: next three Soumaya, Neera and Jal mean drop in 

temperature. . 

Sheetal: last one Amrit means cool. 

Principle No 2 

When many planets are in one Rasi, especially in one Nakshatra 

with Mars and Sun joining them and Mars is with Rahu, there can 

be a terrible downpour even if it is not the regular Monsoon season. 

See the following instances : 

i) 15.4.1983 - Heavy Rain 


KRWN 


it) Again in August 1987 there was a heavy downpour all over 
northern India 


Meterology 549 


cy 26.8.1987 


In all these instances there were concentration of planets in one 
Rasi and on the day Moon joined them there was heavy rain. 


Examples: 

a) On January 8, 1989 when Moon joined Sun, Saturn and Venus 
in Dhanu there was terrible downpour of winter rain all over 
northern India including Delhi. To cause such extraordinary 
fluctuations at least two out of the five malefics Saturn Mars, 
and Sun Rahu and Ketu must conjoin or form an aspect with 
two water-producing planets like Moon and Venus. 

b) On 15 April 1983, Sun, Moon Mercury and Mars had received 
the aspect of Saturn from Tula, a terrible downpour had taken 
place all over northern India. In 1987 when every body was 
talking of drought Rao had predicted in a letter to news paper 
Statesman that the spell of drought would be broken. 

It will be thus clear that when there is concentration of planets in 

one Rasi, the weather begins to fluctuate and when Moon joins 

them this fluctuation becomes clear. 

Principle No 3 
Whatever may be the season, there must be a weather 

fluctuation when Moon joins Venus or when Moon is fifth or ninth 

from Venus. In the rainy season, it causes good rain unless there 
are factors preventing rains. 

Principal No 4 

When Mars transits from one Rasi to another then within 
two days, there is perceptible change in weather and in the rainy 


550 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


season there must be a good rainfall. Mars is the most powerful 
planet causing rainfall. For example note the following dates in the 
year 2002. 
Mars changed Rasis on: 10th January it entered Pisces, On 21™ 
February it was in Mesha, and on April 5 it entered Taurus. On 
May 19 it was in Gemini, on July 4, it entered Karka and on August 
20 it was in Simha. 
Fluctuations in weather including rainfall in rainy season were noticed 
on these days. 
In mundane astrology such transits of Mars are also associated 
with major tragedies and fire accidents depending on planetary 
combinations. 
Principal No 5 
Similarly when a major planet changes a Rasi, it causes momentous 
events. In the case of weather it must cause a very noticeable 
change. 
In year 2002 it was noticed that on February 28, 2002 Rahu entered 
Taums Rasi. There were heavy storms and communal riots in 
Gujarat and other parts of India. 

On July 5 Jupiter entered Cancer there was severe heat and 
talk of war with Pakistan. 

The change of Rasis by Mercury and other heavy planets 
usually presages onslaught of storms, rains, lightening, heat, thunder 
and cause political disturbances as well. 

Principal No 6: When planets retrograde and on the day these 
become direct there is change in temperature, humidity and what 
the meteorologists say as "disturbances". 

But among all the planets Mercury must be singled out for 
spectacular and physically experienced weather fluctuations. 
Venus: Among all the planets it is Venus whose retrogression or 
direct motion does not singly affect weather condition unless other 
planets help accompanies it. 

Venus (Special) 

In Astro meteorological literature Venus always has a special 
meaning and it has to be studied in depth for even market 
fluctuations. Venus is Devata, Manushya and Rakshasha meaning 


Meterology 551 


god, man and devil. Its setting and rising are important considerations. 
Some other Principles 


1. 


2. 
3. 


> 


There will be rain if strong Moon is in a Rasi whose lord is 
aspecting it. 

More benefics in Dakshina Nadi will cause rain. 

If there are more malefics in Uttara Nadi there will be no 
rain. 

If Mercury and Venus, Mercury and Jupiter and Venus and 
Jupiter are together in a Rasi there is cloud formation. In 
favourable Rasi and favourable aspects there will be rain. 
Malefic aspects cause strong wind and less rain. 

Venus behind slow moving planet causes wind. Many planets 
in Pawan Nadi cause destructive wind. 


Factors Preventing Rain 
There are about 31 principles preventing rains in India. Only three 
are more important and are mentioned here. 


) 


ii) 


itt) 


When Sun is in between Venus and Mercury there is a 
break in the sense that for some days there is dry spell. 
When it started happening in late August and early 
September in 1988, the Indian Meteorological Department 
rushed to the conclusion that the monsoon season was over. 
On this basis instmctions were issued to all concerned 
departments including authorities controlling dams, to store 
water at a particular level. This was a mistake as this was 
followed by terrible rain which endangered Bhakra Nangal 
dam and the authorities had to release surplus water which 
created disaster in Punjab and neighbouring territories. The 
Punjab terrorists found a cause to shoot down Major 
General Kumar Director of Bhakra Dam Authority. 

Had the Meteorological department been aware of this 
phenomenon of Sun between Mercury and Venus causing 
temporary break in rain they would have avoided this 
disaster. 


If Jupiter and Mars are within 30 degrees of each other it 
prevents rains. 

But the worst combination is when Mars is ahead of Sun 
in the rainy season. This was so in the year 2002 and hence 


552 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


rains were delayed. This has been explained in Ardra 
Parvesh Chakra for year 2002. 

Forecast of Rains 

1. The method followed is to add 195 days to a certain day 
astrologically arrived at in the month of November- December. 
This gives first day of the monsoon showers. It comes correct 
within an error of margin of 48 hours. 

2. Four astrological charts are prepared to examine how planets 
would affect winds, humidity, moisture, and cloud formation 
and cause rain. 

3. Local observations are carried out in May- June of winds and 
clouds or local and regional rain. 

Animal Behaviour: 

Short range forecasts 

a) In the rainy season if the sky is overcast and your pet dog 
refuses to go outdoors it is sign of coming rain. 

b) If the kites are flying at the height of about 400 feet, it is 
indication of rain or storm. 

c) If spider has started weaving web outdoors, it indicates 
departure of rain. 

d) The croaking of frogs is indication of rain. 

e) The exultant cries of peacock are an indication of cloud 
formation. 

Areas of Research: 

1. There is need to study Garbha Dharan (impregnation of 

clouds) towards the fag end of Dakshinayan (17 July to 30 

January as the particular day when the Moon enters a particular 

constellation (or Nakshatra). This should be done to predict 

rain during the Indian monsoon. 

Similarly for winter rains, the Garbha Dharan is to be observed 

in the Uttarayana period (14 January to 16 July). 

3. Next stage in astrological research is the Shukla Pratipada 
of Chaitra, which is between March 13, and April 14 every 
year. 

4. Then there is Rohini Yoga in the month of Ashaarh. During 
this month Vayuparikshan has to be done daily and the flow 
of winds dutifully recorded. 

5. The last stage is to cast the horoscope of Ardra Parvesh to 
make final prediction about rainfall and the points of 


te 


Meterology 553 


obstmction in Ardraparvesh are to be borne in mind. In the 
year 1987 in the Ardra Parvesh horoscope the Moon is in the 
Nirjala (waterless Rasi). The forecasts on the basis of planetary 
configuration were 


i) All Kendras or quadrants were occupied by malefics, rains 
will not be timely 
ii) Mars aspected by malefics will create dry spells. 


itl) Sun being behind Mars till August 24, (Bhadrapad Krishna 
Amavasya) is not indicative of good rain but shows drought. 

"Aage Mangal Peeche Bhand Varsha hoi aus Sman.” 
“Sravan me aage chala Ravirath se Kujray, Bhadhay Krishna 

Pankhlo varsha Swalpa Dikhay.' The reference is to scanty rains 

caused by Mars being ahead of Sun till 24 August. 

To predict about date of rains following principles should be followed. 

1. After the Sun has entered Mrigsira Nakshatra towards the 
end of May, the southwest monsoon begins to strike Kerala 
coast. When Sun enters Ardra (22-23, June) every year 
Monsoon advances towards northern India. 

2. When the Sun enters Kanya Rasi middle of September the 
Monsoon prepares to withdraw from Northern India. 

3. When the Sun enters Hasta Nakshatra, it causes rain in Bihar 
which a Bihari calls Hathiya rain. But by that time monsoon 
withdraws from rest of Northern India. 

4. When the Sun enters Chitra, it causes some occasional rain, 
otherwise southwest Monsoon withdraws totally. In Indian 
tradition this is reference to the bird Chatak that supposedly 
waits for the raindrop of Swati. 

5. Conjunction of Sun with Saturn causes cold wave in upper 
India. 

Role of Sunspots on weather: 
The latest researches in science have established the relation of 
extreme hot weather and role of sunspots. It has now been proved 
that sunspots have direct connection with extreme heat. (Sunspots 
are dark spots, some as large as 50,000 miles in diameter, which 
move across the surface of the sun, contracting and expanding as 
they go). 


554 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


It was reported in the newspaper Hindustan Times on 13 April 
2003 that extreme and erratic weather is due to the connection of 
the sun and the earth that has so far not been studied. This factor 
has greater impact on the climate than greenhouse gases. In major 
researches undertaken between March 18 and 23 a deep connection 
was noticed between the sunspots and the earth which established 
beyond doubt role of sunspots in causing extreme heat. A British 
scientist E W Maunders who has established connection between 
sunspots and erratic weather conducted earlier researches on this. 
New science of Helios- seismology is taking important steps to 
prove planetary influence on weather. 

Timing of Rain 

This is a topic, which needs thorough knowledge and study of 
various aspects of rain. In Brihat Samhita there is a chapter to 
work out timing of rain. It is stated that in the month of Aggarhayan 
of Shukl Paksh Padi Pada from the date Moon enter Poorva Asahi 
Nakshatra that day should be treated pregnancy of clouds. 
Prospects of Rain 

Study the atmospheric conditions on three days in the lunar 
month of Ashada (June- July) when the Moon transits through 
Rohini, Swati and Uttarshadha Nakshatras. These are respectively 
called Rohini Yoga, Swati Yoga and Ashadi Yoga days. 

If on these days sky is covered with huge clouds, serpent 
like white in certain parts and black in others, or the sky is covered 
with red clouds and marked by lightning immediately before sunrise 
and after sunse., this is sure sign of heavy rains during monsoon. 
Swati and Ashadi Yogas 
On the Swati Yoga day rainfall throughout day and night shows 
uninterrupted rain for several days in winter. 

Wind from east or northeast indicates good rain and good crops 
while wind from other directions presages little rainfall in future. 

Continuous hot wind from southeast or high wind from 
southwest at sunset may bring terrible famine. 

Rohini Yoga 

When the Moon passes through Nakshatra of Rohini in 
the dark half of lunar month Ashada, Rohini Yoga is caused. 

If on the Rohini Yoga day sky is clear and sun hot, there will be rain 
the rainy season. Much misery and no rain are caused if unusual 


Meterology 555 


phenomena like meteoric falls, thunderbolts, mock fires etc. occur 
on Rohini Yoga day. 
Delivery of Clouds; Delivery or birth takes place 195 days after 
when the Moon will be in the same Nakshatra seven sidereal months. 
Clouds that conceive in the bright and dark halves of the month 
(Mrigsira -November - December) and in the bright half of Pausa 
(December -January) will be delivered of rain the in the dark half 
of Jyeshta (May June) or vie versa. On both these days rain will be 
moderate. 
Ardra Parvesh Chakra 

The rainy season in northern India starts with the entry of Sun in 
Ardra Nakshatra. The horoscope drawn at the time of entry of 
Sun in Ardra gives clear indication about the direction and strength 
of the monsoon. The time when Sun enters Ardra Nakshatra is 
given in ephemeris and Panchangs. The horoscope is drawn with 
Delhi as place of birth or entry of Sun in this Nakshatra. However, 
some astrologers are of the opinion that the place of entry taken 
should be Varanasi. 

This Monsoon season lasts till the entry of Sun in Swati 
Nakshatra. From Ardra to Swati Nakshatra is the rainy season. It 
is only some times that it rains when Sun is in Swati Nakshatra. 
The rain of this Nakshatra is very useful for Rabi crops of wheat, 
gram, Sarson etc. 

To interpret the chart it is necessary to understand the role of Rasis 
and planets. 

Rasis 

Twelve Rasis have been divided into following categories: 
1. Fiery - Aries, Leo and Sagittarius. 

2. Earthy - Taurus, Virgo and Capricorn. 

3. Airy - Gemini, Libra, Aquarius 

4. Watery - Cancer, Scorpio and Pisces. 

How much water is there in each Rasi is given below: 
Fiery Rasis: Aries 25%, Leo 0%, and Sagittarius 50%. 
Earthy Rasis: Taums 50%, Virgo 0%, and Capricorn full. 
Airy Rasis: Gemini Nil, Libra 25%, Aquarius 50%. 
Watery Rasis: Cancer full, Scorpio 25%, and Pisces full. 


556 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


While giving predictions it should be borne in mind the percentage 
of water each Rasi has and direction in which it is located. 

The planets Moon, Venus, Mercury and Jupiter gives plenty of 
rain, while malefic planets Sun, Mars and Saturn are dry, preventing 
rain. 

Role of Sun and Mars: They become intense dry when only they 
are together. 

Also if Sun is behind Mars there is no rain. 

Ghagh, a poet has said “Mangal Rath Age Chale- Peeche chale 
jo Sur - Mand Varishti tab janiye padsi sagle shoor". (With 
Mars ahead of Sun there is no rain) 

Sun and Saturn: If in any year Sun and Saturn are together 
in a Rasi in summer there will be extreme heat and if they are 
together in wintry season it will be extreme cold in that year. 

Saturn is Karka for wind and dryness. This will bring strong 
wind, storms etc. This even drives away clouds of rain if it is in airy 
Nadi. If Saturn is in watery Nadi then it causes storms and rain 
especially when it is with watery planets or is aspected by watery 
planets. So the prediction about rain is to be given by combining 
Rasi effects with those of planets. This is how horoscope of Ardra 
Parvesh is judged. 

Directions in the Horoscope: Eight directions are shown in the 
horoscope. 

Lagna is always east, tenth house south, seventh house is west and 
fourth house is north. In between are the four more sub directions. 
Northeast, northwest etc. 

1. East: The places in the east are Bengal, Bihar, and Jharkhand, 
Mizoram, eastern Madhya Pradesh 1st House. 

2. Northeast: 2" and Third House: Bhutan, Assam, Meghalaya 
Amnachal Pradesh, Nagaland, Manipur, Sikkim. 

3. North - 4th House - Delhi, Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, 
U.P. Nepal, part of Jammu and Kashmir, Tibet, Uttar Anchal. 

4. Northwest: 5" and 6" house: Baluchistan, Rawalpindi, Peshawar, 
Afghanistan. 

5. West: 7" house - Gujarat, Rajasthan, Maharashtra, and western 
part of Madhya Pradesh. Sindh, West Punjab, Multan Doman Diu. 
6. Southwest: 8" and 9" house: Kerala Karnataka, Maharashtra, 
West Coast, Goa. 


Meterology 557 


7. South: 10 House: Tamil Nadu, part of Andhra Pradesh, 
Pondichery. ; 

8. Southeast: Eleventh and 12" House: Orissa, part of West 
Bengal, part of Andhra, East Coast, Andaman Nicobar. 

Example Horoscope: 1987 22 June, 12: 28 PM 


Ardra Pravesh 
1987 


How to Read the Horoscope of Ardra Parvesh: 
1. First see the directions and Rasis therein. 
2. The Rasis will show how much water will be there as per 


chart above. 

3. See the location of Planets and the aspect or directions they 
represent 

The planets will give rain as per table below: 

Planet Element Watery Content 

1. Sun Fiery Dry 

2. Moon Watery Water 

3. Mars Fiery Dry 

4. Mercury Earthy Water 

5. Jupiter Akash Water 

6. Venus Watery Water 

7. Satum Airy Dry and windy 


From the above it is clear that benefic planets Moon, Mercury, 
Jupiter and Venus are good for rain. The Karkas for dryness, 
drought (Sookha) are Saturn Sun and Mars. However, since Sun 
is life giver as well as Karka for Soul its effect on rain is not so 
bad. Sun and Mars is not good combination for rain. Please 
remember whenever Mars is ahead of Sun there is no rain. 


558 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


In the above horoscope the Sun and Mars are together at 
the time of Ardra Parvesh on 22 June. At the time of Ardra Parvesh 
there is no rain and Mars will move ahead of Sun in Karkha on 29" 
June. This is not favourable for rain. The rain will only happen 
when Sun moves ahead of Mars. The dates should be ascertained 
from ephemeris. 7 

Saturn is Karka for wind and dryness. This planet brings 
wind, storms and is responsible for driving away clouds in Nadis of 
wind. If it reaches Jal Nadi or is aspected by watery planets it 
causes rain and storm. In this way give prediction about rain by 
combining planets, Rasi and Nadis from Sapt Nadi Chakra. 

Let us apply these principles to the above horoscope. 

East Direction - Lagna: Lagna is Kanya. It represents eastern 
direction. Kanya has 0% water. The Navamsa Lagna is Aries with 
Mars as Lagna lord aspecting Lagna. This represents heat and 
dryness. Bengal, Bihar, UP, Punjab Haryana Himachal Pradesh 
would have heat at the time of Ardra Pradesh. There will be no 
rain in these parts. The summer will be hot with practically no rain. 
North East: Assam Bhutan and North east portion will have plenty 
of rain as Saturn is in North East Jupiter, Moon and Venus has 
aspect in the same direction. There will be heavy rain with storm. 
The Rasis concerned are Tula and Vrischik. Tula is airy Rasi with 
25% water and Vrischik is watery Rasi also with 25% water. 
North: Has been discussed above. Ardra Chakra is for the whole 
of North India. In northern India there is Sagittarius Rasi with the 
aspect of Sun, Mars and Mercury. Dhanu Rasi has 50% water. It 
has aspect of its own lord Jupiter who is a watery planet and is 
with Moon another watery planet. This is good for rain but the 
aspect of Sun and Mars and Mercury give late rain. 

And Gemini and Virgo are Rasis without water there will be shortage 
of rain. Southeastern Monsoon. 


Northwest: There are Capricorn and Aquarius Rasis, which have 
water. Makar has 100% water and Kumbha has 50% water. There 
is aspect of Mars and Saturn. There will be rain with high wind. 
But because of aspect of Mars the rains will be late. The western 
parts of Uttar Pradesh, Punjab Haryana, and Kashmir will 
comparatively have rain but rather late. As a result there will be 


Meterology 559 


good harvest. In the East and middle portion of Uttar Pradesh 
there will be less rain and loss of agriculture. 

West: West has Meena Rasi. It has 100% water with Rahu in it. 
There will be rain with wind. Rahu represents wind and storm. 
Southwest: Moon and Jupiter are in the South West direction. 
Venus is also in its own Rasi with aspect of Saturn. 

Result: Maharashtra and Gujarat will have heavy rain with storms 
and wind. There will be good southwesterly rain. 

South: In the South of India there is Mithun Rasi with 0% water. 
There are also Mars, Sun and Mercury, which promise very little 
rain. 

Southeast: Has aspect of Saturn and Jupiter. The Rasis involved 
are Cancer a watery sign with 100 per cent water and Simha with 
no water. There will be plenty of rain in Orissa and Andhra. There 
will also be storms and heavy wind. 

Result: In southwest portion of India there will be plenty of rain. 
But because of storm there will be plenty of loss. There will be 
shortage of rain in eastern part of India. In Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, 
Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan the rains will be late and hence 
danger of drought. (Sookha). 

Example Horoscope for 2002 

Sun enters Ardra Nakshatra 22 June 2002, 8:50 AM 


Lagna 
Ven 


rs 
ke North 
ke 


Asd. 20° 19' (Ashlesha), Sun 6 °40' (Mrigsira), Moon 1 ° 33' 
(Vishakha), Mars 22° 13' (Punarvasu), Mercury 14° 10' (Rohini), 


560 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


Jupiter 27° 7’ (Punarvasu), Venus 14° 37’ (Pushya), Saturn 26° 
12’, (Mrigsira), Rahu 23° 58’ (Mrigsira), Ketu 23° 08° Jyeshta. 
Navamsa 


Ven 


Sapt- Nadi Chakra Ardra Parvesh 22 June 2002 
Name of the Nadia and. Its Lard 


_ Parchand [ Pawan ar Dahan } Soumaya ; * Neera | ‘Jala “Ta 
‘Saturn Sun Mars te pVenus | Mereu 
* Fierce “Windy | Hor i aS los Veather | ae 1 Renrer i 
| changes Rain iv Rain 
ti 
oer 1 Mushya 


2 
Kriuika | Tala 


| Mex ; Sun Sat! Mar Ju | Ven 
eo a qo cl Rita. cbt Fe | 


Unar- : Curval hal ' Magha 
Phaguret l unt | 


‘Anuradlas - on “Muli | pues | in ee Scavan 
ee ee Oi eae eres eoege a ate eng ee 

a. 7 "it (eo eae" ae 26 tae 

, Bharni ; Ashvini Revati Urtorbha- | Purvalha- | Sarabhish : Dhanishia 
Sas eee so rca a | 


Predictions for rain for the Year 2002 

1. Lagna is a watery sign with 100% water having Venus a watery 
planet which is also in Ja/ Nadi and is good for rain. Lord of 
Lagna is Moon in Scorpio with water content 25% and is also 
with Ketu and aspected by Saturn and Mercury which is not 
very promising. In Navamsa, however. Moon is in its own sign 
but is aspected by a hot and dry planet Mars. In Sapt Nadi 


Meterology 561 


Chakra Moon is in Parchand Nadi whose lord Saturn is in 
Dahan Nadi, which is not good for rain. So in this season 
though there will be rain but not in abundance. 

2. However, important fact is that in this horoscope Mars 
is ahead of Sun. Hence rains will be delayed till Sun moves 
ahead of Mars which happens in early August. Hence rains in 
northern India would be delayed till early August. 

(Note: This is exactly what happened in the year 2002 contrary to 

meteorological department's prediction that rains will be on time, 

thus vindicating Vedic astrology). 

Example Horoscope: Predictions for the year 2003 on the 

basis of Ardra Parvesh Chakra. 

Time of making the Horoscope: Sun enters Ardra Nakshatra on 

22" June at 14 hrs 58 minutes. (This can be found out from Lehri's 

ephemeris for the year 2003 on pages 43 (Entry of Sun into 

Nakshatras). 


The horoscope cast for this time is as follows: 


ANA 


22.6.2003 
14:58 


Ardra Parvesh 


Lear Ls 


Asd 10°29’ (Swati), Sun 6°40’ (Ardra), Moon 15°22' (Uttar Bhadra), 
Mars 8°15' (Satabhisha), Mercury 21°49’ (Rohini), Jupiter 22°26’ 
(Ashlesha), Venus 21°01’ (Rohini), Saturn 8°27' (Ardra), Rahu 
5° 10' (Krittika), Ketu 5° 10' (Anuradha) 


562 Analysing Horoscope Through Modern Techniques 


Navamsa 


Ven 
Mer 
Jup 


SECO 


Sapt- Nadi Chakra Ardra Parvesh 22June 2003 
Name of the Nadi and Its Lords 


Parchand tae Dahan Soumaya | Neera Jala Amrit 

Saturn a Jupiter Venus Mercury | Moon 

Fierce wing phere Good Better Best Rain 
4 at Rain 

Krittika oat ed on Pushva Ashlesha 


Ven Mer Jupiter 
an 


fio fs a tT 


3 5kKet 


2 22 23 
Anuradha ae ep Uttarashd | Abhijit Sravan 
Ketu 
30 29 25 24 
Bharni Ashvini i Satabhish | Dhanishta 

Mar 


Vishakha a Chitra Hasta Uttar- PurvaPhal | Magha 


Main Features of the Horoscope: 

1. In this Ardra Pravesh Chakra the Lagna lord is Venus which is 

in its own Rasi with a benefic Mercury and exalted Rahu. Venus is 

a watery planet which is good for rain. Taurus Rasi has 50 per cent 

water as such it is good for rain. 

2. Venus is also lord of Neer Nadi in Sapt Nadi Chakra which 

indicates good rain. 

1. Jupiter is exalted in a watery sign and is in a Kendra also 
which is a beneficial combination and good for rain. It is also in 
Amrit Nadi, which is good for rain. 


Meterology 563 


3. Moon, a watery planet is in Pisces a watery sign which has 
100% water and hence excellent for rain. 

3, Also Lagna is an airy benefic sign and Ardra Pravesh Chakra 
represents weather condition for North of India there will be 
plenty of rains with winds and storms (aspect of Mars on 
Venus). Lagna also represents East and being an airy Rasi 
indicate there will be rain with wind and storms in the east of 
India. 

4, Mercury is in Taums with Venus promising good rain. While 
Venus and Mercury are in Prachand Nadi indicating fierce 
weather but lord of this Nadi Saturn is in Saumya Nadi 
indicating weather change. 

§, In the west because of fiery Rasi there will be shortage of 
rain. Lagna lord is in the 8" house with the aspect of Mars a 
fiery planet But Mars is in Jal Nadi and in the horoscope it is in 
Aquarius Rasi which has 50% water promising rain with wind 
(airy sign). Because Mars is fiery planet there is possibility of 
shortage of rain at some places and excess of rains at others. 

6. Inthe South there is watery Rasi with exalted Jupiter so there 
will be plenty of rain at most places. 

7. Inthe north, Capricorn Rasi promises good rain as ithas 100% 
water but its lord Saturn is in airy Rasi with fiery planet Sun 
because of which there will be storms, dust wind and rain. 

8. Jupiter in second from Sun would be good for rain but presence 
of Saturn with Sun gives extreme conditions of storm and heat 
and shortage of rain. The lord of Lagna in its own house 
promises good rain in some parts of the country. 

Day of Heavy Rain 8 July 2003 


Lag VeSa 
Rah SuMer 
Mar 


3VenSat 
sunMer 


564 Analysing Horoscope Through Modem Techniques 


Sapt- Nadi Chakra 8 July, 2003 


Parachand | Pa wan Dalian Soumaya | Neera Jala Amrit 
Saturn. Sun Mars Jupiter Venus Mercury | Moon 


Weather Good Better Best Rain 
Changes Rain Rain 
Krittika ini igsi Ardra 
Rahu VenSat 


16 13 
Vishakha 


24 
Satabhish | Dhanishta 
Mar Mon 


References: Brihat Samhita by Varahamihira, Prasna Shiromani, 
Satya Siddhanta, Applied Astrology by K.N. Rao, Astrology in 
Predicting Weather and Earthquakes by Dr. B.V. Raman. Articles 
in Journal of Astrology and Astrological Magazines. Koorma Chakra 
by Umnna Shankar Dubey. Article in Hindustan Times 13 April 
2003 on role of sunspots. 


