Analysis of 
Marriage through 
Astrology 


Prof. Basistha Tiwari 
Jyotisacharya, M.A. (Astro) 


The Author's Submissions 


According to Hindu.Philosophy, there are four pillars of 
Hindu Society. Dharma, Artha, Kama and Moksha. These 
are the four main goals of human life. Dharma means 
religious, piousness, righteousness etc. Artha-acquiring 
wealth to maintain the requirements of life, Kama- 
various kinds of mundane desires and enjoyments and 
Moksha- the final liberation from this world. These are 
controlled by the planetary positions at the time of birth 
of a person as well as in transit. It is, therefore, essential 
to study the effects of stars and planets on living beings 
to know what are stored in their destiny. The study of 
the influence of light on the human beings on the Earth 
is called Jyotish, a Shanskrit term derived from two roots: 
Jyoti (light) and Isha(lord) i.e. the lord of light. 


Everything in the universe is constantly moving and 
changing, and that which is changing is bound by time. 
Stars are luminous bodies radiating energy into space. 
The rays of light, then, come from the stars and planets, 
which are surrounded by their own gravitational and 
magnetic fields influencing this light. The Earth, then, 
receives this light which influences the living and non- 
living on it. According to ancient astrologers, Saturn is 


The Author's Submissions 


the most distant heavenly body and the Moon is the 
nearest influencing the Earth. The Sun is considered soul 
of the solar system and the Moon is the mind. The light 
energies coming from the Sun, Moon and stars all 
separately influence the physical, mental and spiritual 
status of all beings on the Earth. Thus, we see that the 
Jyotish (astrology) is a science which controls every kind 
of activities on the Earth whether individual or mundane. 
Thus, astrology helps to achieve the above mentioned 
four kinds of goals of human life. In the present book 
the third goal 'Kama' which means sexual or materialistic 
desire/enjoyment has been dealt with. To achieve the 
above goals successfully our ancient saints introduced 
sixteen kinds of Sanskars which are required to be 
followed by every human being especially Hindus in 
course of Jivan Yatra (journey of life) ie. from birth to 
death. Marriage is one of the most important Sanskar 
and is treated as religious deed because it is not 
considered as means for mere satisfaction of sensual 
gratification but a pious deed to produce progeny to 
keep the flow of offspring. Thus, it gives tremendous 
services to the Society as a whole. 


1 have, in this book, endeavoured to discuss the effects 
of heavenly bodies on the sexual life of a human being 
strenuously and elaborately as far as possible with 
examples. In practical life, it has been found that the 
couples with lesser score of match-making in Astakoota 
Milan system enjoy happy and peaceful marital life 
whereas there are some couples with high score who 
lead a miserable married life. To cope with this problem, 
I have given some new technique for match-making. In 
this system, besides the Astakoota Milan, following four 
new methods/Koots have been given' to examine and 
match 

(a) personalities of the bride and the groom 

(b) love, peace and happiness in the horoscopes of 
the couple 


Analysis of Marriage through Astrology 


(c) moral characters of the bride and the groom 

(d) child bearing capacity of the bride and child 
producing capacity of the groom. These are the new 
concepts and practically it is very helpful in matching 
the horoscopes of the bride and the groom. 

I shall be happy to receive suggestions from the 
learned readers. Error, if any, found in the book may 
please also be pointed out for rectification in the future 
editions. 

1 should not fail in my duty to mention that Prof. 
Jamini Mohan Chattopadhyay, my Rev. teacher and the 
Principal of Academy of Indian Astrology, Kolkata has 
provided due encouragement, inspiration and guidance 
to me to write this book. I, therefore, extend my heartiest 
thanks to Prof. Chattopadhyay. 

I am thankful to Dr Y.C. Bhattacharya, Jyotihsastri 
and ex-AGM of Sate Bank of India for his laborious 
work of proof-reading and editing the book in spite of 
having indifferent health. 

My thanks are due to Shri Mitul Kumar Singh for his 
designing the book, my students Shri Jitendra Kr Banka, 
Jyotisacharya,M.COM,LLB,M.B.A.,F.1.C.W.A,an 
industrialist and Shri Mrinal Banerjee, Jyotisacharya , 
for their valuable services rendered in making liaison 
with press and valued suggestions. 

I am also very much thankful to my son Sanjay 
Kumar Tiwari, B.Com, Jyotihsastri who prepared all 
the horoscopes given in the book as case studies. Smt. 
Tanuja Tiwari, my daughter-in-law, also deserves my 
.sincere thanks for her services rendered to me in course 
of writing the book. 

At last, I am very much thankful to Shri Narinder Sagar of 
Sagar Publications for his kind consent to publish the book. 


Basistha Tiwari 
Kolkata-700015 


FOREWORD 


1 feel much pleasure in introducing Prof. Basistha 
Tiwari to the enlightened and learned readers and 
students of Astrology. Prof Tiwari has sincerely devoted 
his entire energy for uplifting the Hindu System of 
Astrology and the book "ANALYSIS OF MARRIAGE 
THROUGH ASTROLOGY" is the result of his ardent 
labour and sincere efforts for many years. The science 
of Astrology is a very difficult subject and nobody is 
allowed an access to the secret of this subject unless he 
sweats profusely in its cultivation for well over decades. 
This particular branch of Astrology is the most complex 
and intricate subject and therefore, it requires much 
labour and research to go to the depth of the subject. 
The modern society, specially Hindu society, faces a lot 
of domestic violence and post-marital problems leading 
to the unhappy end of a married life. The book is an 
attempt by the author to study such marital problemes 
astrologically so that the society may get benefit by 
correct selection of the partners in the marriage. 

I may add here that the book is’ excellent for its 
extensive delineation and thorough analysis of marriage 
. It may be classed as an authentic work on marriage in 
the Sidereal System of Hindu Astrology. I, therefore, 
recomend it as a text book of Predictive Astrology for 
the benefit of the students of JYotirvigyan at the 
University level. 

At last, I wish a grand success to the author and his 
work for all time to come. 


Dr.Sunil Kumar, Gold Medalist 
(Philosophy), M.Sc. (Anthropology), M.A. 
(Sociology & Psychology), M.A. (Philosophy, 
Hindi, Sanskrit, & Jyotirvigyan), Ph.D. 
(Sanskrit). Head, Deptt. of Sociology, 
Mahendra Prasad Mahila Mahavidyalaya, 
Ranchi University, Ranchi, Jharkhand. 


viii Analysis of Marriage through Astrology 


PREFACE 


The book titled "Analysis of Marriage through Astrology" 
has been thoroughly gone through by me at its 
manuscript stage. It gives me undoubted impression that 
an astrological book of this type is rarely available in 
the market. I am confident that it will create interest in 
all kinds of people, whether they believe in astrology or 
not. This book is a strong evidence of extremely hard 
research work on the subject which has resulted in 
producingan elaborate discussion on almost all. possible 
astrological aspects on marriage, which is one of the 
most important phases of human life. 


Once published, the book may create an uproar in 
the educated world, besides benefiting numerous persons 
interested to know the properties required for smooth 
and happy married life. 


I wish the book and its author an unprecedented 
success after its publication. 


Dr Y.C.Bhattacharya, Jyotihsastri 
Ex-AGM State Bank of India, 
Kolkata. 


Content 


CHAPTER-1 
Basic concepts and principles of 
Hindu Astrology 


CHAPTER-2 
Marriage 


CHAPTER-3 
Astrological Principles and methods 
of study of Marriage 


CHAPTER-4 
Sex Potentiality 


CHAPTER-5 
Number of Marriage 


CHAPTER-& 
Late Marriage 


Divorce or Separation 


CHAPTER-a 
Marriage of Inter-case, Inte-race 
and Inter-religion 


24 


50 


77 


85 


92 


99 


Analysis of Marriage through Astrology 


CHAPTER-9 
Time of Marriage 


CHAPTER-1Q 
Marriage in Horary Astrology 


CHAPTER-11 
Ummarried Persons 


CHAPTER-12 
Combinations for wealth and Penury 


CHAPTER-13 
Female Horoscope 


CHAPTER-14 
Marriage Match-Making 


CHAPTER-15 
Mangalik Dosh 


CHAPTER-16 
Important points to be examined 
before Settlement of Marriage 


CHAPTER-17 
Muhurta of Marriage 


CHAPTER-18 
Badhu Pravesh 


CHAPTER-19 
Santan or Child 


CHAPTER-20 
Ayu or Longevity of Bride or Bridegroom 


104 


115 


119 


124 


129 


145 


171 


175 


186 


200 


203 


213 


CHAPTER-1 
Basic concepts and principles of 
Hindu Astrology 


t is presumed that the learned readers of this book 

may have the basic knowledge of principles and 
concepts of Hindu Astrology. However, the genesis of 
indian astrology is just touched upon in the following 
few paragraphs for general interest. 


JYOTISH is a SANSKRIT term derived from two roots, 
Jyoti and Ish. Jyoti means light and Ish means lord. 
Therefore literally Jyotish means lord of light. But the 
inner meaning of lord of light refers to the Sun, Moon, 
planets and stars (Nakshatras). These heavenly bodies 
emit direct or indirect lights which create effects on 
human beings as well as all kinds of lives on the Earth. 
Therefore, science of study of effects of heavenly lights, 
which include various kinds of energy floating in the 
universe, on human being on the Earth is called 
JYOTISH SHASTRA. The word "Astrology" has the 
same meaning. Astro means stars, the source of light 
and logos means science. So astrology means science of 
light. 


Every thing in the universe is moving. The smallest atom 
is composed of various further smaller particles which 
are moving inside the atom in their respective orbits 
around a central particle called nucleus. In the same 


Analysis of Marriage through Astrology 


way the greatest stars are moving in the heaven around 
a central heavenly body. Heavenly bodies which are 
moving around a star are called "Planets" and those 
which are moving around a planet are called satellites 
or moons. Stars are luminous bodies which radiate 
energy into space. Stars and planets are surrounded by 
their own magnetic and gravitational fields which 
influence the rays of light coming from them to the 
Earth. 


There are billions and billions of stars in the universe 
and every star radiates energy but their distances from 
the Earth are very long which cannot be grasped by 
human beings. Such distances are measured in light year 
unit. (One light year is equal to the distance travelled by 
light in one year. Light travels 1,86,000 miles per second). 
Some of them are at such a long distance that their 
effects on Earth are negligible. Therefore, for 
Jyotishshastra our Rishis and Seers have selected only 
twenty seven stars (Nakshatras) and nine planets 
(Grahas) for the purpose of study of their influence on 
human beings. The Sun is a star, the Moon is a satellite 
and Mercury, Venus Mars, Jupiter and Saturn are 
planets. Rahu and Ketu are mathematically calculated 
sensitive points in the heaven which are receding 
backward along the ecliptic and complete a circle in 
about 18 years. They do not have physical body but 
their effects and influences are experienced on the Earth. 
That is why they are taken into category of planets and 
are called shadowy planets. In Hindu astrology all the 
above star (Sun), satellite (Moon), planets and shadow 
planets are called GRAHAS. The Sun is the biggest and 
the Moon is the smallest grahas. Saturn is the most 
distant planetary body and the Moon is the nearest one 
which influences the Earth most. These all heavenly 
bodies are called members of the solar family, because 
except the Moon all are revolving around the Sun. The 
Moon is revolving around the Earth which along with 


Chapter 1: Basic concepts and principles of Hindu Astrology 3 


the Moon moves around the Sun. The Sun is, therefore, 
considered to be the soul of the solar system or solar 
family. The light energy coming from these heavenly 
bodies in various colours separately influence the 
physical, mental, environmental and spiritual status of 
human or all beings on the Earth. 


According to Jyotishshastra, the Sun, the Moon, planets 
and stars play important roles in influencing the affairs 
of human life, but the greatest question is how?. It is 
believed that the stars and planets, depending upon their 
positions in the heaven and geographical location of 
human beings on the Earth, emit benevolent as well as 
malevolent colour waves through radiation energy, 
transmitting the synthesis of impulse producing the 
hormones in human beings. Hormones control the 
human activities ie. action of reaction. The externally 
radiant energy get converted into kinetic energy of 
charged particles of human being, as determined by 
heredity and the resultant effects, in conjunction with 
karma sarira, which depicts the coded record of one's 
past, reflects on the destiny of human beings. Karma 
sarira operates under the law of action (Karma) and 
reaction (Phal), cause and effect and law of karma is 
immutable. Thus, we see how radiation from stars and 
planets influence the affairs of human life on the Earth. 
Jyotish Shastra, therefore, confines its studies to the 
effects of the Sun, the Moon, other planets and 27 stars 
on the human beings on the Earth along with that of 
Rahu and Ketu which are called ascending and 
descending nodes in modern astronomy. 

As mentioned earlier, we have to determine the position 
of the Sun, the Moon,.other planets and the stars in the 
heaven and the position of an individual on the surface 
of the Earth to study the effect of the heavenly bodies 
on the individual and therefrom about the affairs of the 
individual life. 


Analysis of Marriage through Astrology 


If we look into the sky at night from the surface of the 
Earth we see a vast sphere on the inner side of which 
numberless stars appear to be depicted. So it is impossible 
to study the effect of such uncountable number of stars 
on the Earth. We have, therefore, selected the Sun and 
the members of the solar family along with only 27 
stars for our study. We know that all the planets are 
revolving round the Sun in more or less the same plane. 
Maximum inclination of plane of Mercury's orbit on the 
plane of the Sun is 7 degree. So all the planets are 
revolving within 8 degrees of either side of the path of 
the Sun which is called ecliptic or Ravi Marga or 
Krantivritta. 

So we study the planets and stars lying within 16 degrees 
wide band of sky with ecliptic in the middle of it. This 
position of the sky is called ZODIAC or Rashi Chakra 
within which all the planets are revolving. 

At the time of birth of a person, a chart is prepared for 
the planetary positions in the zodiac with reference to 
the sign (lagna ) rising at the time of birth. This is the 
map of the sky at the time of birth. This map is called 
Lagna Kundali or Horoscope or Nativity. There are 
twelve signs (Rashi), twelve houses(Bhavas) and nine 
planets. Each bhava represents different aspect of life of 
the native. Therefore, from this nativity we judge the 
entire events of life of the native right from the birth to 
the death. Marriage is one of the most important event 
of life of a human being. Therefore, we have selected 
marriage as subject of study. 


CHAPTER-2 
Marriage 


Miz": is an arrangement of co-habitation of man 
and woman which lays the foundation of the prime 
unit of a society. Marriage therefore is the most beautiful 
bond which units two souls on their journey of life. 
Through marriage, relation among the human beings is 
created and developed. Marriage, therefore, has legal 
sanction of law of the land to which a couple belongs. 
In our Hindu society marriage is considered as one of 
the sixteen 'Sanskars'. So marriage is regarded as a 
religious deed which keeps the flow of humanity from 
generation to generation. 


Thus marriage is a landmark in the life of a human 
being. It is an institution founded on the basis of love 
and affection between husband and wife. Marriage 
should not, therefore, be seen as mere means for 
satisfaction of brute sense gratification, but should be 
treated as a pious and religions deed. 

Genesis of marriage is sex which is a biological need of 
human being and marriage is an institution founded by 
our society to bring order in the human sex life. Besides, 
sex is an wonderful gift of the Nature to the humanity 
which generates love and happiness between husband 
and wife and with the help of this gift they keep the 
flow of their off-springs by begetting children and thus 
they do a great job to save the humanity from extinction. 


Analysis of Marriage through Astrology 


So the study of marriage can not be done successfully 
without the study of sex, sexual potentiality and the 
sexual behaviour of a human being. 


In western society, marriage is considered as a civil 
contract with legal sanction to derive sense gratification 
and pleasure out of it and once the couple fails to derive 
pleasure out of such wed-lock they become separated 
and thus the marriage is terminated in the form of 
divorce. But in Hindu society marriage is regarded as 
sacrosanct and that is why it is not easily breakable. 
The Hindu society comprehends the equality of partners 
(husband and wife) in respect of dharma (religious or 
right conduct), Artha (finance), Kama (Sex and desire) 
and Moksha (final emancipation). 


Marriage is the base of a family and therefore also of a 
society. So success and failure of marriage is directly 
related with success and failure of a family and society. 


1. Success of marriage depends on the following 

points. 

1. Good physical and mental health of both husband 
and wife. 

2. Love and affection between the couple. 

3. Good moral character of both husband and wife. 

4. Good child producing capacity of husband and good 
child bearing capacity of wife. 

5. Good economic or financial condition of couple. 


If the above mentioned points are favourable or positive 
in the life of a couple, the marriage shall be successful 
and there shall be love, peace and happiness in the life 
of a couple but if these points are unfavourable or 
negative their lives will be unsuccessful and there shall 
be no love, peace and appiness in their lives and, 
therefore, their lives become hell and end in separation 
or divorce. So to avoid such a painful and unpleasant 


Chapter 2: Marriage 


situation, our ancient Hindu astrologers and saints had 
developed a mechanism for selection of right and 
compatible partners. This mechanism is known as 
"Kundali Milan" or "Yotak Vichar" or marriage match- 
making which has been discussed seperately in a 
chapter.. The practice of marriage match-making is still 
in vogue in this modern age. If the birth charts of bride 
and groom are not matching to each other then their 
marriage is not recommended. Thus it is seen that the 
science of astrology is a great help for the parents of 
bride and groom in selection of match for their wards. 


2.Ruling Planets and houses of Sex & Marriage 
Venus and Mars are the most important significators of 
marriage.They are karaka planets of marriage, Venus in 
the male horoscope and Mars in the female horoscope. 
The 7th house is the ruling house of marriage. Therefore, 
the 7th houses and 7th lords from Lagna, Moon, Sun, 
Venus and Mars are required to be judged. 


Besides the above Moon, Jupiter, Mercury, 7th lord, 8th 
lord, !1th lord, 2nd lord and 12th lord are the auxilary 
planets and 2nd house, 4th house 5th house, 8th house, 
11th house and 12th house are the auxilaty houses which 
are required to be considered in the matter of marriage. 
Venus, the 7th house, the 7th lord and the 8th house 
and 8th lord are also significators of Sex and sexlife. 
Libra and Scorpio the 7th and 8th house of the natural 
zodiac are also required to be judged for sex and sex 
life. 


The significations of Venus are as follows 
Venus 


Modern view of places 


Places of amusements, theatres, restaurants, bedrooms, 
brothel, places focusing on beauty, art galleries, beauty 
salons, elegant shops, shopping malls, places where 


Analysis of Marriage through Astrology 


music is featured, dance halls, clubs, opera and 
symphony halls. 


Psychological view 

Affection, friendliness, love, gentleness, sociability, 
harmony, balance, elegance, gracefulness, refinement 
wefined sensuality, laziness, vanity, sentimentality, vice 
and sensual corruption, lack of taste. 


Traditional view 

Wife, marriage, love marriage, sex, sexual matters, 
pleasure of senses, beautiful and aristocrat ladies, luxury, 
vehicles, watery places, arts, dance, drama, poetry, 
literatures, singing, scents, ornaments, jewellery, all kinds 
of luxurious articles, engineer, technical person, 
cooperation from and with others, businessman, sperm, 
comfortable bed, romance, rich food, wealth, decorated 
house, fashionable woman, acquaintance with royal 
ladies, water, liquid, flowers, flowery trees, love, 
affection, diabetes, urinary diseases, vernal diseases, desire 
to fine arts, pleasant trips, prone to comforts, beautiful 
body, curly hair, beautiful and bright eyes, journey with 
friends, silk, textiles, embroidery, medical education, 
chemistry, private parts, kidney, silver, diamond, sensitive, 
worship of Gouri and Lakshmi. 


Mars 

Modern view of places 

Kitchens, factories where fire and electricity are heavily 
used, machine shops, burnt areas, areas where carnage 
has taken place, battle fields, slaughterhouses and 
butchers’ shops, laboratories, places of aggressive and 
violent or physical contest, boxing and wrestling rings, 
karate school, foot ball stadiums, places frequented by 
blue- collar workers, armouries, military installations. 


Chapter 2: Marriage 


Psychological view 

Goal directed energy, strength, courage, passion, action, 
competitive spirit, vim and vigour; or anger, irritability, 
haste, impatience, inconstancy, inconsistency, lack of 
drive and courage, wrong attitude. 


Traditional view 

Courage, energy, stamina, valour, vitality, desire, anger, 
scandal, enemies, opposition, controversies, - war, 
weapons, knowledge of weapons, iron, almost all 
weapons made of iron, interest in explosives, flourishing 
in defense department, leadership, leader of thieves, army 
commander, police officer, employees of police and army, 
younger brother, brothers, cousin brothers, steadiness, 
daring, strength, idiot, king, blood, fond of blood, hot 
temperament, medium body, strong muscle, muscle-man, 
muscle-power, fire, accident, careless, least care for 
wounds, steadiness in spending money and wealth, 
popular in relatives and friends circle for spending 
money for them but when comes to know that relatives 
and friends are pretending love and affections towards 
him, he becomes impatient and irritated leading to 
addiction to intoxicants, crazy, does not hesitate to beat 
or commit murder, sensuous, does not care about the 
health of wife to have sex with her. Gold and copper, 
metals, immovable properties. 


7*house. 

It is also called house of sex and marriage. it denotes 
(1) marriage @) unchastity @) adultery (4) wife (6) 
husband (6) loss of wife (7) hatred to wife (8) winning 
of love (9) enmity with a debouched female (10) 
deviation from right path (13) good perfume (14) flowers 
(5) fragrance of flowers (16) delicious food and drinks 
(17) music (18) chewing of betel leaves with areca (pan 
with supari and katha) (19) break in journey (20) loss of 
memory (21) sperm or semen virility (22) faithfulness of 
husband (23) second wife (24) reproductive organs (25) 


10 Analysis of Marriage through Astrology 


milk and sweet meat (26) charity (27) meals with ghee 
(28) valour (9) victory or conquering of enemies (30) 
adopted son (31) hoarded money (32) intercourse (3) 
secret affairs G4) argument (5) foreign country (36) 
business (37) theft. 

8th Bhava 

This is a mystic house also called Chhidra House. 
Besides the following it signifies sexual organs of native 
(1) longevity (2) happiness (3) defeat (4) patrimony 
(inherited property) ©) grief due to death of relative (6) 
witch craft (7) death (8) calamity'(9) struggle for food 
(10) danger (11) brother's enemy (12) means of fortune 
to wife (13) sorrow (14) laziness (15) punishment from 
the government (16) fear (17) loss of money (18) war 
(19) money lender (20) returning a debt (21) 
unintentional receipt of other's money (22) lotteries (23) 
handicapped (24) death sentence (25) mental anxiety 
(26) chain of misfortunes (7) killing of animals (28) loss 
of limb (29) great mental tension (30) unstable mind 
G1) prone to do bad deeds G2) misery (33) wife's sickness 
G4) severe difficulty. 


Libra-It is the 7th house of n/zoddiac 

The symbol of Libra is a man holding a scale in his 
hand. This indicates that the natives prefer to be 
merchants or retailers than to be intellectual class like 
lawyers or judges. They have tall and well formed body 
with good complexion. In youth they have slender body 
but in middle age they become stout. They have round 
or oval face, parrot like nose, good feature, good looking, 
graceful and youthful appearance with sweet smile and 
attractive countenance. Curves and contour of the body 
are regular. They are fond of walking and travelling. 
Normally such persons look younger than age. They are 
fond of fine and beautiful dress, perfume, art, music, 
dance, drama, literatures and beauty in all forms. They 
have fertile imagination and correct intuition. They are 
brilliant, intellect, refined with pleasant nature. Usually 
amorous and lustful, fond of society, amusements, 


Chapter 2: Marriage 11 


enjoyments they are very active, clean, devoted to God 
and Brahmins. They are very clever in purchase and 
sale of goods and mercantile and act impartially in’ 
arbitrations, wealthy, skilful and lead a comfortable life. 
Librans are affectionate, kind, compassionate, generous, 
idealistic, artistic, sexy, passionate (of compromising 
nature), courteous, hospitable. Quick in temper (but will 
be quietened soon), easily pleased. Fond of opposite sex 
and have such a strong conjugal affection that they do 
not consider anything else than pleasure. Librans enjoy 
good physical health but are prone to infectious diseases. 
They are likely to suffer from problems of kidney, spine, 
uterus, and male's private parts. 


Scorpio- This is the 8th of n/zodiac 

The symbol of Scorpio is a scorpion meaning a keeta. It 
prefers to live in a hole. It indicates that the idea of this 
sign is occult, mystic, and destruction of materialism to 
give birth to psychism. This further indicates that there 
are two types of characters of this sign. 1) Destructivity 
and 2) Creativity. The first type of character indicates 
people who will be jealous of others, rude, strong willed 
but irreconcilable, undefeatable and seekers of sensuous 
pleasure. The second type of people are those who have 
control over their senses and through creativity attain 
higher ethical values. The natives of Scorpio have well 
proportioned body, long hands, stature average, broad 
face, short and curly hair and muscular body with good 
personality. They have big eyes, broad chest, round thigh 
and are sickly during childhood and inclined to cruelty. 
Scorpions are quick, keen, shrewd, critical, of penetrating 
mind and keen judgment, courageous, energetic, not 
easily imposed upon. They are interested in research 
work, occult science and mysticism and are fond of 
investigating mysteries and perform best result as 
detective. As Scorpio is a fixed sign, they are of fixed 
view, self reliant, bold and have tendency to override 
and keep others under control, have strong likes and 
dislikes. They are self made natives, impulsive, forceful, 


12 Analysis of Marriage through Astrology 


unyielding, free, frank but sarcastic. They lose their 
temper quickly, get irritated, and are highly sexy. They 
are lucky in case of finance, and in anything they want 
like vehicles, house, service, business and good wife but 
they cannot save money. They do not want to be 
controlled by others, rather want to command others. 
Scorpio indicates reproductive organs, enlargement of 
prostrate glands, testicles, bladder etc. So the natives are 
likely to suffer from diseases in the above parts of the 
body. 


3.Male/female Sex Organs 

The 8th house and the 8th lord signify sex organs or 
reproductive organs. The 8th house and the 8th lord 
indicate male sex organs and the 7th house and 7th 
lord in the male nativity indicate female sex organs. The 
female breast is also treated as sex organ and the 
reproductive organ of female is called bhaga. 


(a) Female Organ 

. If Jupiter or Venus is lord of the 7th house, the 
bhaga of the young lady will be symetrical, beautiful 
and lovely. 

2. If the lord of the 7th house is any one of Moon, 
Mercury and Saturn, it will be narrow. 

. If the lord of the 7th house is associated with a 
malefic planet, the wife will have a long (Deergha) 
bhaga. 

4. If the 7th house falls in a watery sign or karak 
planet of the 7th house is in watery sign, the space 
of the bhaga of wife will be large. 

5. If Saturn is posited either in his own sign or in the 
sign of Marcury or Moon in the 7th house, the size 
of the bhaga will be narrow. 

6. If the 7th lord or the karaka of the 7th house is 
posited in a watery sign, the reproductive organ of 
wife will be moist. 


—_ 


ie) 


Chapter 2: Marriage 13 


7 


8. 


9. 


11. 


12. 


13, 


14. 


15. 


16. 


. If Moon is posited in the 7th house and is aspected 


by venus, the female organ will be moist. 

If Venus is posited in the 7th house and is aspected 
by Moon, the female organ will be moist. 

if Moon is posited in the 7th house and connected 
with a malefic by way of conjunction or aspect, the 
reproductive organ of the woman will be dry. 

If Moon is posited in the 7th house in a watery sign 
or navamsa, the female organ will be moist. 

If the lord of the 7th house is either in conjunction 
with or aspected by a banefic planet, the breast of 
the woman will be large. 

If the Sun is posited in the 7th house, the breast of 
the native will be strong and tight. 

If the lord of the 7th house is posited in a Kendra 
and conjoined with Jupiter, Moon, Venus or 
Mercury, the native will have a broad and swelling 
breast. 

If Mars is in the 7th house, the breast will be 
shrunken. 

If the 7th house is occupied by any one of Saturn, 
Rahu,Ketu or Gulik, the breast of the native will be 
overhanging. 


(b) Male organ 

By examination of the 8th house and the 8th lord, we 
can get an idea about the size and condition of sexual 
organ of a male person. 


1. 


If the Sun is the lord of the 8th house or posited in 
the 8th house, the sexual organ of the native will be 
virile with normal function. 


. If the 8th lord is Moon or Moon is in the 8th house, 


the size of the organ will be normal but its function 
is controlled by the mood of the native. 


. If the 8th lord belongs to Mars or Mars occupies the 


8th house, the sex organ of the man will be small but 
he will be very sensuous. 


14 


Analysis of Marriage through Astrology 


. If Mercury is occupier or lord of the 8th house, the 


organ will be abnormal and the native will not enjoy 
normal sex life. But if Mercury is in own sign in the 
8th house, the native will enjoy normal sex life. 


. If Jupiter is posited in the 8th house or lord of the 8th 


house, the size and function of the native will be 
normal. 


. If the 8th lord is Venus, or Venus is posited in the 


8th house, the organ of the native will be beauiful 
with normal size. He derives full sexual satisfaction. 


. If Saturn is occupier or lord the 8th house, the organ 


of the native will be long and languid. 


. If Rahu is in the 8th house ,the narive be a Sex- 


maniac. 


. If Ketu is in the 8th house, the native will be hyper- 


sensitive in the matter of sex. 


4,Sexual Behaviour of the native 

The sexual behaviour of the native depends on the 
characteristics of the 7th house and the nature of the 
planet occuping the 7th house. 


1. 


2 


If the 7th house is posited or aspected by the Sun, the 
native will be aggressive in sex behaviour. 

If the 7th house is posited or aspected by the Moon, 
the native will take great pleasue in sex-act. 


. If the 7th house is posited or aspected by Mars, the 


person will be impotent or weak in sex and often 
goes to his wife in angry mood. 


. If the 7th house is posited or aspected by Mercury, 


the native will suffer from nervous exhaustion or pre- 
mature ejaculation. 

If the 7th house is posited or aspected by Jupiter, the 
native will ardent in sex act. 


. If the 7th house is posited or aspected by Venus , the 


native will get great delight in sex act with spouse. 
If the 7th house is posited or aspected by Saturn, the 
native will behave like an animal in the sex matter. 
Such person generally have a mean outlook in the 
sex matter. 


Chapter 2: Marriage 15 


8. If the 7th house is posited or aspected by Rahu, the 
person will feel shy in sexual matter. 

9. If the 7th house is posited or aspected by Ketu, the 
native will be hyper-sensitive and very often suffers 
from premature ejaculation. 

If there are more than one planet posited or aspect the 

7th hoiuse, the native will be enjoy the combined results 

but the result of the most powerful planet among them 
will be pre-dominant. 


The position or aspect of a planet in the 7th house, in 
transit, will yeild the same results in the sex life. 


5. Impotency 

It means inability \to achieve or maintain a penile erection, 
adequate for the successful completion of sexual union. 
It is a physiological disharmony either from childhood 
or from a later part in life. There is a serious debate 
going on in the medical fraternity to know whether it is 
a pathological or psychological disorder. Whatever the 
cause may be, it is a great curse to the native who 
suffers from such disease. It spoils his family or conjugal 
life completely and makes his life hell. 


Impotence produces, among other, things, psychological 
impact on the native. Such persons, generally, feel shy 
to disclose his weakness even to a physician with the 
result that he does not get proper treatment in time and 
thereby suffers whole life. 


There may be so many reasons for this disease but one 
of them is sex-phobia in female for which some 
combinations are given below, 

1. When Saturn is lord of the lagna and aspected by 
Mars and Ketu, is in conjunction with the woman 
gets affraid of sexual union. 

2. If the lagna is occupied by Saturn and Rahu, the 
native become frigid. 


16 Analysis of Marriage through Astrology 


3. If the lord of the 8th house is hemmed between two 
malefic Saturn and Rahu, the native will suffer from 
the same disease. 

4. If Rahu and Saturn are conjoined with Moon, the 
karaka of mood and emotion of a woman, she 
becomes frigid. 


The followings are some combinations for impotency of 
man. As we know the 7th house and Venus rule the 
sex life and semen in a male chart.Tula Rashi, the 7th 
house of natural zodiac, signifies the same thing. 
Therefore, if the 7th house, the 7th lord, Venus and 
Tula rashi are associated with weak and impotent 
planets, the native becomes impotent and unable to enjoy 
sex union. Saturn and Mercury both are considered as 
impotent planets. 

1. lf Saturn and Mercury are associated with the 7th 
houses and 7th lords from Lagna, Moon and Venus 
and also with Tula Rashi, the native will become 
impotent. 

2. When Venus is within one degree of the Sun, she is 
combust and defeated in a planetary war. Such 
Venus becomes very weak and does not give benefic 
result in the matter of sex and hence the natiuve 
becomes impotent. 

3. When the 7th lord is in the similar position as that 
of Venus, it will destroy the sex ability of a man. 

4. If the 7th lord and Venus are posited in the 6th 
house and associated with Saturn or Mercury, the 
native will become weak in sex act. 

5. When Venus, the 6th lord and Mercury conjoin or 
aspect lagna lord, the native will get similar results. 

6. Weak, heavily afflicted and ill-placed Moon produces 
the sex inability in a man. 

7. Weak, badly afflicted, ill-placed Venus in the 8th 
house produces the same result. 

8. The 8th house rules the sexual organ in a male 
person. If the 8th lords or 8th houses from lagna, 


Chapter 2: Marriage 17 


Moon, Sun and Venus and also Vrischik sign are 
badly afflicted, the genital organ of the native will 
be defective resulting in sex inability. 

9. When the 7th lord and Venus are ill-placed in the 
6th house, it will give rise to impotency. 

{0. Rahu or Saturn in the 2nd house, Mercury in the 
8th house and Moon in the 12th house make a 
person impotent. 

{1.If Mercury is conjoined with Saturn in the 8th house 
and Moon is afflicted by Rahu, the native will 
become impotent. 

{2. If Moon is hemmed between two malefics and the 
8th house is occupied by Mercury or Ketu, the native 
suffers from impotency. 

{3. If weak and afflicted Mercury is positioned in the 
8th house, similar result will take place. 


6. Arranged (negotiated) Marriage 

In this system of marriage the choice of parents is 
primary and that of bride or groom is secondary. In 
our Hindu society, first of all father of the daughter 
initiates selection of groom. Selection is done on the basis 
of health, education and income of the groom. These 
are the primary criteria of selection. Secondary criteria 
are the family and social status of the parents of the 
groom. If these are favourable, match-making is done 
ivith the girl and then marriage is finalised. 


:trologically, the birth chart of the native should be 
examined to acertain whether the groom is destined for 
arranged marriage or love marriage. If there is an 
indication of love marriage in the horoscope, one should 
discard the negotiation and opt for the next. 
Following combinations are given for arranged marriage. 
As we know the 7th house, 7th lord and Venus are the 
primary determinant of marriage. If they are powerful 
and well-placed, the marriage is destined. Besides the 


18 


Analysis of Marriage through Astrology 


7th house and the 7th lord, the 2nd house and 2nd 
lord, 11th house and 11th lord are to be examined. 


1. 


10. 


If the lords of the 2nd, 7th and 11th houses are 
related to each other, the marriage will be successful. 
There will be long tie between the couple with 
healthy family atmosphere. 


. If the lords of the 2nd, 7th and I!1th house are 


associated with the 4th house/4th lord or 9th house/ 
Sth lord, the marriage will be arranged by the 
parents. 


. If the lords of the 2nd, 7th and 1lth house are 


associated with the Sun or Moon, the marriage will 
be arranged by the parents. 


. If Venus is associated with the 4th house/4th lord 


or 9th house/9th lord, the marriage will be arranged 
by the parents. 


. If Venus is associated with the Sun or Moon, or 


benefic planets, the marriage will be arranged by 
the parents. 


. lf the lords of the 2nd, 7th 11th house and Venus 


are associated with benefic planets, there will be 
negotiated marriage. 


. The position and strength of Mars should also be 


examined in a female horoscope. 

If the lords of the 2nd, 7th I1lth and Venus are 
associated with Mars, the marriage will be settled 
with the help of brother. 

If the lords of the 2nd, 7th, 11th house and Venus 
are associated with Jupiter, the marriage will be 
settled with the help of elders or preceptor. 

If the lords of the 2nd, 7th, 11th house and Venus 
are associated with Mercury, the marriage will be 
settled with the help of maternal uncle or a relative. 


7. Love Marriage 

In modern time, boys and girls study together in college 
and university or doing job or service together and 
therefore, they get ample opportunity to meet each other 


Chapter 2: Marriage : 19 


freely. Such frequent meetings cause mutual intimacy 
leading to sex attraction between them which develop 
into love affairs. Ultimately, they agree to marry. This 
type of marriage is called love marriage. In this system 
of marriage, the choice of groom or bride is primary 
and that of parents or guardian is secondary. In this 
system bride and groom select their partner 
independantly sometimes without consent of parents or 
guardian. There is maximum chance of inter-caste, inter- 
racial or inter-region marriage in love marriage. 

Love marriage , generally, takes place within 
acquaintances on mutual agreement. Venus, the 5th 
house and the 5th lord are the causal planets and house 
for generating love between male and female. If they 
are associated with 2nd/2nd lord, 4th/4th lord, 7th/ 
7th lord and 11th/11th lord, the native will involve in 
love affairs and ultimately marry his desired girl. The 
following combinations are given for variety of love 
marriage. 

1. When lords of the 2nd, 4th, 5th, 7th, |1th house 
and Venus are associated with Saturn or Rahu by 
way of conjunction or aspect, the sex attraction 
will cause love affairs. If the above mentioned lords 
are strong and unafflicted, the intimacy may result 
into marriage. 

2. If the lords as mentioned in item No.1 above are 
weak and afflicted, the love affiars may not result 
into marriage. 

3. The 7th lord and Venus are aspected by or conjoined 
with Saturn, the native marry a girl with whom he 
is already in love. 

4. When Venus is aspected by or conjoined with strong 
Rahu posited in Kendra or Rahu is a yoga-karaka. 
When Saturn is posited in the 7th house or Saturn 
is associated with benefic planets, the native will 
marry his beloved girl, but if Rahu is weak and not 
placed in Kendra, the marriage will not take place 
with the girl whom he loves. 


Analysis of Marriage through Astrology 


. When Saturn is posited in the 7th house or aspects 


the 7th lord in the birth chart of a person, the native 
will marry a girl hails from a previously known 
family. 


. If the above dispositions of planets are associated 


with Ketu, the native will marry the girl secretly. 


. If Mars of a female chart is aspected by Saturn or 


Rahu of a male chart, the man will be attracted 
toward that woman. If in such birth chart Venus of 
male and the Mars of the female chart are in the 
same Rasi or in their mutual kendras or in mutual 
trikonas, the intencity of love will increase and the 
native will marry the woman. 


. The signs of Libra, Taurus, Pisces, Cancer and Leo 


are the signs which generate love and attraction 
toward opposite sex. If the Sun, Moon or Venus is 
posited in any one of the above signs, the native 
will involve in a romantic love affairs. The Sun in 
these signs indicates ambitions regarding love, Moon 
indicates attitude and point of view toward love 
while Venus indicates manners and way of 
expression of love. 


9. The Sun in Taurus indicates the ambition and power 


to attract a rich and beautiful lady for marriage to 
fulfil his desires. 


10. lf in a female chart, Moon is in Taurus, the woman 


II. 


will follow the conventional practices of marriage 
prevailing in the society but at the same time she 
will not hesutate to have an extra-marital relation 
clandestineli. 

Venus in Taurus indicates the deep appreciation of 
a beautiful woman which ultimately result in 
marriage. After marriage the native will have desire 
and power to reponse to the demand of his wife 
with constant virility. 


Chapter 2: Marriage 21 


8. Celibacy 

Celibacy is a mode of life in which a person passes his 

life without marriage or without any relation with a 

woman. There are two reasons for celibacy. 

{. Sanyas or ascetism 

2. Hatred for woman. 

1. Sanyas:- Inclination towards spirituality or Sanyas 
(ascetism) is nothing but a piculiar mental make 
up of a person or a particular state of mind under 
the influence of which a person recluses himself from 
home and adopt some religious discipline. Under 
this discipline, the person abondons temparal 
concerns and practice celibacy along with some 
methods of Sadhana to achieve his goal or Shiddhi. 
Parasar has given some Pravrajya Yogas in his 
Brihat Parasara Hora Shastra chapter-81. They are 
as follows:- 

{. If four or more powerful planets are posited within 
the space of one degree in a house of birth chart of 
a person, the native will recluse himself from home 
and adopt ascetisim or Sanyas. 

2. If Sun is powerful among the above planets, the 
native will be Tapasvi. 

3. If Moon is powerful among the above planets, the 
native will be Kapali-a man with begger's bowl in 
his hand. 

4. If Mars is powerful among the above planets, the 
native will adorn red clothes. 

5.If Mercury is powerful among the above planets, the 
native will possess a staff in his hand. 

6. If Jupiter is powerful among the above planets, the 
native will be a Yati- an ascetic (Sanyasi) abstinent 
and severe in his self discipline. 

7. If Venus is powerful among the above planets, the 
native will be a possessor of Chakra (Chakradhari). 

8. If Saturn is powerful among the above planets, the 
native will become Naga- the Sanyasi who moves 
about in nude forms. 


22 Analysis of Marriage through Astrology 


9. In the event of many planets are found strong in a 
house, the native will embrace asceticism on the 
basis of the strogest planet amongst them. 

10. A weak Pravrajya Yoga:- If the planets forming 
Pravrajya Yoga are strong but combust, the native 
will not take initiation of asceticism but he may 
develop deep adoration in the religious tenets. 

11. A powerful Pravrajya Yoga :- the planets forming 
Pravrajya Yoga are weak but combust, the Sun 
becomes significator of Pravrajya Yoga and the native 
will become Tapasvi. 

12. The dispositor of Moon aspects Saturn but does not 
receive aspects of any planet, the native will get 
initiation into religious discipline signified by the 
planet stroger between the two, dispositor and 
Saturn. 

13. If the dispositor of Moon is weak and aspected by 
Saturn only, the native will embrace the religious 
tenets signified by Saturn. 

14. If Moon is in the Drekkan of Saturn and also in the 
navamsa of Saturn or Mars and aspected by Saturn, 
the native will be initiated in the discipline signified 
by Saturn. 


For the fructification of Pravrajya Yoga, the 4th house, 
4th lord and Moon are more relevant and if malefic 
planets like Saturn or Sun and the 12th lord have 
strong influence in the nativity, the Pravrajya Yoga 
will be fructified. 


2. Hatred of Woman 

In the modern period, most women give troubles to their 
husbands in some cases either due to their iracible nature 
or bad character. 

Such type of ill-behaviours creates very strong impact 
over some people with the result that they develop 
hatred towards women and do not want to lead worldly 
life marrying a woman. Under this compelling 


Chapter 2: Marriage 23 


circumstances they embrace celibacy and lead an ascetic 
life. 

Some combinations for celibacy are given below for 
ready reference. 


1. Venus in male nativity and Mars in female nativity 
play important role in celibacy. When these planets 
are afflicted by Saturn or in kendra of Saturn or 
in opposition of Saturn, the sorrows on account of 
marriage is observed and therefore, a tendency of 
celibacy develops in the native with the result that 
the native embrace asceticism. 

2. Similarly, aspect of Saturn on the Mars and Venus in 
the horoscope causes celibacy. 

3. If Moon is in the 7th house and the lord of the 7th 
house is posited in the 12th house and Venus is weak, 
does not enjoy pleasure from a marrige to the native 
and therefore, he embrace celibacy. 


9. Gain through Marriage 

The 2nd and the 11th houses signify wealth and earning 
repectively. The Sth house and the 9th house signify 
fortune. If the lords of the 7th houses from lagna, Moon, 
Sun and Venus are benefic and powerful and posited in 
the above houses devoid of malefic influences, the native 
is likely to acquire wealth through marriage. The amount 
and values of wealth depend on the strength of planets. 
When the benefic planets or lords of Kendras or Konas 
are associated with the above planets, the strength of 
the planets is increased, while the influences of malefics 
as well as lords of evil houses decrease their strength. 


The 5th house rules the chance money like lottery or 
gifts. When natural benefic and powerful lord of the 
5th house has mutual exchange of house with the lord 
of the 2nd house or both are conjoined in a Kendra or 
Trikon being the house of a friend, the native is likely to 
acquire chance money like lottery. 


CHAPTER-3 
Astrological Principles and 
Methods of Study of Marriage 


E: the purpose of astrological study of marriage, the 
7" house of a horoscope is taken as a house of 
marriage or house of sex. Although sex (Kama) is 
signification of 6 house but when sex banks in the a 
house, it has legal sanctions. That is why the 7™ house 
is considered as house of sex. The cusp of 7* house is 
exactly 180° away from the ascendant. The house 
opposite to the ascendant must be one with which a 
pair of man and woman is formed and therefore, 7" 
house is attributed to wife for a male nativity and to 
husband for a female nativity. 

For judgement of marriage, the 7" houses and the 7" 
lords from the ascendant, Moon, Sun and Venus are 
required to be examined extensively for male nativity. 
Venus is the natural significator of marriage or sex. So 
its strength and placement in the male nativity are also 
required to be examined extensively. For female nativity, 
in addition to the above disposition, the strength of Mars 
and Jupiter are also required to be examined. Some 
astrologers consider Mars as natural significator of 
husband and some think Jupiter as natural significator 
of husband. Therefore, these planets should also be 
examined extensively along with other factors as 
mentioned above. 


Chapter 3: Astrological Principles and Methods of Study of Marriage 25 


The position of 7" lord in the twelve houses and in the 
twelve zodiac signs creates influence on spouse. Maharisi 
Parasara in slokas no. 14" and 15 of chapter 20" of 
Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra Vol-I of Girish Chand 
Sharma says that if the 7” lord is in his sign of exaltation 
and the 7" house is occupied by benefic planet or planets 
and is strong and powerful, the ascendant lord is placed 
in 7" house, the spouse will be endowed with virtues 
and will expand dynasty by begetting sons and having 
grand sons. Similarly Sloka no 16" says that should the 
7" house and its lord be in conjunction with malefic 
planets the astrologers should predict that there will be 
loss of the native's wife especially if the 7” house and 
the 7" lord are bereft of strength. 


Important Combinations in respect_of Marriages 


Various combinations for love and passion, marital and 
extra marital relation are given by various scholars and 
astrologers. Some of them are given below. 


1. Relation among the lords of 2°¢, 7* and 11' houses 
.creates a condition for negotiable marriage which 
means selection of bride and groom by parents. This 
is the accepted practice in Hindu society. Venus, 
the natural karaka planet of marriage should also 
be well-placed and powerful. 


2. Relation among the lords of 2°, 5", 7" and 11" 
lords creates condition for love marriage which 
means self selection of marriage partners. 


3. Conjunction of Venus and Mars in 1, 2°4, 6", 7°, 
8", 10% and 12 houses creates desire in a person 
for falling in love or making love with opposite sex. 
Mutual exchange of houses or exchange of aspects 
between these two planets also leads a person into 
bond of love. If the connection between Mars and 


Analysis of Marriage through Astrology 


Venus takes place in 3" or 4 house, the love affairs 
may develop in the same building or in the same 
neighborhood. If the relation takes place in 9" or 
10% houses love affair may commence in the place 
of work, or between colleagues or between employer 
and employee or between the superior and the 
subordinate. 


4.If Mars or Saturn is in the 3° or the 9" house and 
is in conjunction with Moon or Venus or aspected 
by either of them, a platonic love affair, tender 
relationship or physical involvement may develop 
between cousins, between sisters-in-law and brother- 
in-low. Sometimes Rahu in 3°¢ or 9 house in 
conjunction with Moon or Venus or aspected by 
Moon or Venus may give the same results. 


5.If Mars, Rahu or Saturn is in 4, 9%, 10" or 11" 
houses supported by conjunction or aspect of Moon 
or Venus, tender relationship or physical 
involvement may develop between step parents or 
step children. If Mars or Venus owns or occupies 
the 6" house and get connected by conjunction or 
aspect with Moon or Venus, love or marriage with 
maternal uncle/aunt is also possible. 


6.1f Mars or Venus owns the 4, 7", 10" or the 12" 
house and either of them are positioned in any of 
these houses in a state of inter relationship between 
them or with Moon, a love affair will develop during 
transit of Jupiter or Saturn over any of these houses. 


7.If the lord of the 5™ house of Mercury or Jupiter 
comes to be associated with Mars or Venus in the 
4th via 10* or the 12" houses, the love affair may 
develop in the school, college, or at university. 


8. In a female horoscope, if there is a male sign of the 
zodiac in the 4", 7, 10" or 12" houses or male 


Chapter 3: Astrological Principles and Methods of Study of Marriage 27 


planets are posited in any of these houses or in the 
male horoscope, a female sign is in the above four 
houses or female planets are posited in any of these 
houses, the chance of a love affair becomes all the 
stronger. 


9. Conjunction of Venus and Mercury in the 7", 8% 
or 10° house creates chances of a love affair and 
the chances become all the stronger if the conjunction 
is in a house owned by Moon, Mercury or Venus. 
This combination operates rather forcefully during 
school and college days or during lecture tours out 
of town, jaunts of school and college groups, in the 
course of viva voice tests and interviews. And 
therefore, the combination works faithfully in the 
case of examiners, experts conducting interviews, 
authors, poets, journalist, singers, dancers, painters, 
doctors, actors and actresses. 


10. Venus in 10" house from Moon and Saturn in 10" 
house from Venus (say if Moon is in Leo, Venus is 
in Taurus and Saturn has to be in Aquarius) will 
also lead to a love affair. This combination operates 
more effectively in cases where one person is at the 
giving end and the other person is at the receiving 
end in career, profession, trade or business or even 
in educational field. 


11. If Moon, Mars, Venus or Saturn happens to own 
the 2°? house and occupy the 3°¢ house in one’s 
horoscope, and if Moon, Mars, Venus or Saturn is 
posited in 2", 4™ or 7" house in the horoscope of 
a neighbour, there are chances of physical 
involvement between the two persons without much 
touch of any emotional attachment. 


12. If lord of the 7 house is in the 274, 34, or 12™ house 
in conjunction with Moon, Mars or Saturn or is 


28 


Analysis of Marriage through Astrology 


being aspected by any one of these four planets and 
if the sign occupied by 7" lord is owned by Moon, 
Mars or Venus, the native is get involved in an 
extra-marital relation. If the lords of the 6” or 8" 
house get associated in this combination, extra- 
marital love affairs will create uproar. 


13. If a sign owned by a soft planet is in 2°4, 6", or 8” 


house and Venus is in conjunction with Jupiter or 
Moon or Mercury in the 6”, 8", 9%, 12%, or 24 
house, the person will try to develop an extra- 
marital love affair. If Mercury owns the house of 
conjunction between Venus and Jupiter or if Mercury 
aspects them directly from the house opposite to 
them, an affair will develop between the teacher 
and the student or between the master and the 
employee, irrespective of the age difference. 


14. If Moon, Mercury or Venus owns the 1°, 5 vies wi" 


house and if there is combination of Mercury and 
Moon or Saturn or Rahu in any of these houses, the 
person will develop a love affair. The emotional 
attachment will be very strong and a separation or 
parting of ways will be unbearable and will cause 
deep mental agony. 


15. Exchange of houses between lords of the ascendant 


and the 7" house and conjunction of any one of 
them with Moon, Mars or Venus indicates that a 
love affair is in the offing. If Rahu or Saturn gets 
associated by conjunction or aspect in this type of 
combination, it may lead to swapping of spouses or 
lovers. 


16. If ascendant or the 7" house is owned by a benefic 


planet and lord of the either of the two houses is in 
conjunction with or aspected by malefic planet and 
if the ascendant or the 7” house is occupied by a 
benefic planet, a love affair will develop. 


Chapter 3: Astrological Principles and Methods of Study of Marriage 29 


17. If there is conjunction of lords of the 8" and 9" 
houses and if one of them is a benefic planet and 
another is a malefic planet, then there will be a 
long term love affair. If this combination is in any 
way influenced by Moon or Venus, the partners in 
love or marriage will indulge in unconventional 
mode of sex life. 


18. Waning Moon in conjunction with or aspect by a 
malefic planet in the 7 house makes a person crazy 
for love affair. If Moon is afflicted by any other 
malefic also, in other words if Moon is associated 
with more than one malefic planets in the 7* house, 
the person will remain dissatisfied with love affair 
and will jump from one affair to another in 
succession or have more than one affair 
simultaneously. 


19. Exchange of houses, conjunction, mutual aspect 
between the lords of 1* and 6” houses give a long 
lasting love affair. Chances of development of a love 
affair become all the stronger if either of the two 
happens to occupy the 1", 5%, 9" or 12 house. 


20. If the lord of the 6 house occupies a sign owned by 
the lord of the 8 or 12" house and the lords of the 
8" or 12" house is in a sign owned by the lord of 
the 6 house,- a hate and love relationship will 
develop and violence will also figure in between the 
lover and the beloved. 


21. Conjunction of Mercury and Venus in a sign owned 
by either of them, under aspect from Saturn or Mars 
will give a freelance love affair without concern for 
secrecy. If this type of conjunction of Mercury and 
Venus are aspected by Moon also, emotion will play 
a greater part rather than sex in the relationship. 


30 


22; 


23, 


24. 


25. 


26. 


27. 


28. 


Analysis of Marriage through Astrology 


Conjunction of Saturn with either Mercury or Venus 
in a house owned by any one of them or in the 1*, 
4,71 9 or 12" house will give a love affair between 
a rich and a poor person. If the house is owned by 
Saturn, the love affair will have long run and remain 
secret. 


Conjunction of lord of 2™4,7" and 10 houses if occurs 
in the 7 house, will give a love affair and one of 
the two parties will be in service, with the chances 
of service prospect being affected adversely. 


If the conjunction of lords of the 2°, 7%, and the 
10" houses occurs in the 10" house, the love affair 
will improve the prospect of one of the parties in 
service or business. \ 


Conjunction of lord of the 7 house with Rahu or 
Ketu in 2", 37, 7, 10" or 12" house will give 
semblance of a love affair though the relationship is 
only physical artd it does not last long. If the 
conjunction is in the 2™! house or the 10” house, 
one party plans the relationship with ulterior 
motives. 


In the horoscope of a male, if Venus in its own sign 
or Moon's sign occupias a navamsa owned by Mars 
or Saturn, a love affair is sure to take place. 


In the horoscope of a female, if Venus or Mars is in 
a sign owned by Venus or Mars and if such Venus 
or Mars occupies a navamsa owned by Venus, Mars 
or Saturn, the female gets involved in a bold and 
open love affair irrespective of the marital status. 


If the lord of the 2"' or 7* house occupies the 4™ 
house and is in conjunction with or aspected by 
Moon, Mars or Venus, the person may seek physical 


Chapter 3: Astrological Principles and Methods of Study of Marriage 31 


involvement with a relation on the mother side. In 
South India in case of marriage of a girl with her 
maternal uncle or his son, one of the partners of 
the marriage has planetary combination of this or 
similar type. 


29. If Mercury or Venus is the lord of the ascendant 
and if it occupies the 1%, 4, 5%, 7, 9%, or 11" 
house, there is a chance of physical relationship 
between the teacher and the taught and chances 
become all the more strong if such Mercury or Venus 
is in conjunction with each other or with the waxing 
Moon. 


30. lf Venus is in navamsa owned by Mars or Saturn in 
the 1%, 4, 5, 7", 9® or 11" house and if it is in 
any way connected with its navamsa lord in the 
birth chart or navamsa chart, it will give an extra- 
marital involvement. 


31 Similarly Mars is in a navamsa owned by Moon, 
Venus or Saturn and if at the same time Mars is 
connected with such lord of its navamsa either in 
the birth chart or in the navamsa chart, an affair 
will develop in the neighborhood or in the office or 
at the place of work of the person having this 
combination. 


32. If Saturn is in a navamsa which is occupied by 
Venus, Moon or Mars and also at the same time 
that Saturn is in conjunction with or aspected by 
Venus, Moon or Mars, the person will have a 
relationship with one's own employer or employee 
and meeting will take place in dark or remote or 
unclean place or in the field. 


33 If Moon is in 27%, 9 or 12 house and is in 
conjunction with or aspected by Mars, Mercury, 


32 


34. 


35. 


36. 


37. 


38. 


Analysis of Marriage through Astrology 


Venus or Saturn, the person will have more than 
two affairs and the affair may be at a religious place 
or under the grab of religious activity. 


If the Sun or Mars is in the 9, 10* or the | 1* house 
and is at the same time in a navamsa owned by 
Venus or Mercury, the person will have physical 
relationship with the spouse of a senior officer of 
the Government or with a politician. 


if Moon is in 10* house and is in a navamsa owned 
by Mars or Venus or in its own navamsa, the person 
stands to gain service or business or financial 
through physical relationship with the spouse of a 
high officer or dignitary. 


If Jupiter is in the 4%, 9") or 10* house and it is in 
a navamsa ‘owned by Sun, Mars or Mercury, the 
person will have an affair with a judge or his/her 
spouse and if such Jupiter is in conjunction with 
Saturn in the birth chart or navamsa chart the 
person will turn the relationship to his/her own 
advantage. 


If the Sun is in conjunction with Venus or Saturn in 
the 3", 4", 9*, 10 or 11* house and if one of them 
is in its house of exaltation, the person will have an 
affair with a minister or member of the legislature 
or his/her spouse. If the lord of the 5* or 11* house 
gets associated with such Sun, the person will derive, 
through such relationship, material benefit for one's 
own self or for one's children. 


lf the above combination takes place in the 5", 7th, 
8th or 12* house in the sign owned by the Sun, 
Venus or Saturn in the birth chart or in the navamsa 
chart, the relationship develops but it may end in 
insult and injury. 


Chapter 3: Astrological Principles and Methods of Study of Marriage 33 


39. If any two of the four malefic planets ie. Mars, 
Saturn, Rahu, or Ketu are in conjunction in the 6m, 
7", 8", or 12* house and if any one of them is in 
a navamsa owned by Moon or Venus, the person 
will have a love affair with a person belonging to 
another faith or religion and there are chances of 
conversion through love affair or marriage. 


40. If Jupiter, Saturn or Rahu is in 7 house and it is in 
conjunction with Moon or Venus and either of them 
is in its sign of debilitation or in a navamsa owned 
by any one of them, the person will have an affair 
with an elderly person and will cherish it to the 
maximum. 


41. Conjunction or exchange of aspect between Moon 
and Venus and at the same time conjunction or 
exchange of aspect between Saturn or Jupiter or 
Saturn and Mars or Mars and Jupiter or Jupiter 
and Mercury and also conjunction of Jupiter with 
Rahu will give a love affair between a much elderly 
people with a youngster. The chances become 
stronger if Moon or Venus has a Kendra (square) or 
trikona (trine) relationship with Saturn or Jupiter. 


42. Conjunction of Jupiter and Mercury or Jupiter and 
Moon or Jupiter and Venus in the 5*, 7* or 9% 
house develops an affair between a person of 
ordinary means and a highly and well-placed person. 
This combination becomes all the more effective if it 
takes place in Taurus, Gemini, Virgo, Libra or Pisces. 


43.If a benefic Planet viz waxing Moon, unaffiliated 
Mercury, Jupiter or Venus occupies or directly 
aspects (7" aspect) the 2? ,7" or 12 house and 
such planet itself is in conjunction with or aspected 
by another benefic planet, the person will have a 
love marriage or extra-marital affair. 


34 Analysis of Marriage through Astrology 


44.The aspect of Saturn on the 4" or 7* house or on 
the lords of the 4* or 7* house or on both 4” house 
/ 4" lord or 7* house / 7° lord, will bring about a 
marriage with a divorcee or with a widow or 
widower. 


45.If Saturn is in the 6* house and aspects the lord of 
the 7 house, it will give an unconventional love 
marriage, outside the community, religion or with a 
foreigner. 


46.\f Saturn or Rahu occupies the 1% or the 7* house 
and is in conjunction with or aspected by or in any 
manner connected with another malefic planet 
including the waning Moon, the person will bave a 
love marriage outside his/her religion and may 
undergo conversion of faith. 


47.If a malefic planet is in the 7" house and another 
malefic planet is in 9" house and neither of them is 
in any way connected with a strong benefic planet, 
the person will change his/her religion for the sake 
of marriage. 


48.1f in a horoscope the 7* house is owned by Saturn, 
Mars, or Moon and if any two malefic planets 
occupy the 12" house, the person will change his/ 
her religion for the sake of second marriage. 


49. Triangular placement of Mars, Venus and Rahu in a 
horoscope makes the person fond of more than one 
affair or mere physical relationship simultaneously. 
The effectiveness of the combination becomes 
stronger if any of the three planets i.e. Mars, Venus 
or Rahu is aspected by Saturn. lf Jupiter also gets 
involved by conjunction or aspect with any of the 
three planets ic. Mars, Venus or Rahu, the person 
will marry one and continue with the other as an 
extra-marital affair. 


Chapter 3: Astrological Principles and Methods of Study of Marriage 35 


50. If the lords of the 7* and 12™ house are in each 
other's ownership and if either of them occupies or 
aspects the 2% or 4* or 5" or 7” or 12" house, the 
person will have a love marriage in spite of 
opposition from the parents. 


51.If the Mercury, waxing Moon or Jupiter occupies the 
2? house and if any one of them aspects the 2" 
house and the planet in it from the opposite house 
(8* house) and at the same time Saturn or Mars 
also occupies or aspects either the 2" or 8* house, 
the person will have a love marriage and after the 
marriage the couple will indulge in digging into the 
past of the each other which may lead to dissolution 
of the marriage. 


52. Ketu rules secrecy in love affair and if it occupies 
the 274 7* or 8" house, it gives rise to an extra- 
marital affair. However if Ketu is in the 12 house 
it will create a rift in the family of the married 
person. Such’ Ketu in the 2", 7th, 8th or the 12* 
house gains extra capacity for results if it is in 
conjunction with or aspected by Moon, Mercury or 
Venus. 


53.If Ketu occupies the 7 or 12™ house and enjoys 
support of Moon, Venus, Mars or Saturn, a secret 
marriage or marriage of convenience will take place 
between a married person and an unmarried person. 


54.Saturn can give an adolescent love affair without 
marriage, it may revive an old affair or give an 
altogether new affair in married life, after a break 
of 15 years or 28 to 30 years ei. when the Saturn 
transits over the 7* house from the transit position 
when it had given the adolescent love affair or its 
transit over the same house itself which occurs after 
28 to 30 years. 


36 


Analysis of Marriage through Astrology 


55.1f Saturn and Ketu are in conjunction in the 1%, 2°, 


4", 7, 9" or 12™ house and if they are under aspect 
from Venus or Jupiter in the opposite house, it will 
give a love affair between a rich person and a poor 
person. If Saturn, Venus or Moon owns the 7” house 
in this type of combination, the affair will culminate 
into a marriage. 


56.If any one of the following pairs (a) Saturn and 


Ketu (b) Venus and Rahu (c) Sun and Moon (d) 
Jupiter occupy the 5* house and are at the same 
time aspected by Mars, Moon, Mercury or Venus, 
the person will have an affair with an athlete or 
expert in sports. If Jupiter is also associated with 
one of the combination, the affair will culminate 
into a marriage. 


57. Moon and Venus play an important part in making 


58. 


and unmaking love affair or marriages of stage or 
film artists. lf both or either of them be in the 6,7, 
s™ or 12" house and be in conjunction with or 
aspected by Mars, Mercury, Saturn or Rahu the 
actress or actor will be involved in a steady affair. 


If the above position of Moon or Venus is associated 
with a strong Jupiter or Ketu the affair will culminate 
into a marriage. 


59. If the above type of position of Moon or Venus does 


not enjoy the association of Mercury, Jupiter or Ketu, 
and is afflicted by Mars, Saturn or Rahu only, then 
the affair will not last long. 


60. Moon, Mercury, Venus and Saturn play an important 


part in development of affairs in the lives of sailors. 
When any of these planets occupies the 4", 8* or 
12* house and if that house contains a sign of 
Cancer, Capricorn, Aquarius and Pisces, the person 
will develop a casual affair. Saturn gives the affair 


Chapter 3: Astrological Principles and Methods of Study of Marriage 37 


on the sea coast while Moon and Venus give it on 
the high waters. Mercury can give a feeling of love 
at every port. 


61.Jupiter, Venus and Moon make and unmake the 
relationship within the members of crew of an 
aeroplane. If any one of these planets is in the 9", 
10, 11, or 12 house and is in any manner 
associated with Mars, Saturn or Rahu, a casual affair 
will develop. 


62. If Jupiter, Venus or Moon owns any one of the 7", 
9", 10", or 12" house and if any one of these three 
planets occupies any one of these houses and at the 
same time in conjunction with or aspected by 
Saturn, Mars or Mercury, a regular love marriage 
will take place between two members of the crew 
of an aeroplane. 


63.1f a male and a female have an ascendant just 
opposite to each other, for instance the man is born 
under ascendant Virgo and the woman born under 
ascendant Pisces, or man under the cancer and 
woman under the Capricorn ascendant, there is 
strong chance of development of an affair between 
them which may culminate into marriage ultimately. 
The magnetic pull is all stronger if the ascendants 
of the two persons are in opposite to each other 
within 176° and 184°. 


64.If the Moon sign (Janma Rasi) in the horoscope of a 
man and a woman are in opposite to each other, 
an affair may develop between them and if the 
opposition between the Moon's signs of the two are 
within 176° to 184°, the chances of affair are all the 
more strong. 


65. Some learned astrologers hold the same view in 
regard to the opposition of Venus in the two 


38 


66 


67. 


68 


69. 


Analysis of Marriage through Astrology 


horoscopes being in opposite to each other that is 
love marriage may take place between the two. lt 
can be possible in two ways. Firstly (@) it is possible 
housewise and secondly (ii) it possible sign wise. 


If the ascendant of one person is in opposition to 
Venus of the other within the distance of 176° to 
184°, a love affair or marriage is possible between 
them. 


If the Moon in one person's horoscope is in opposition 
to Venus in the other person's horoscope, a love 
affair or marriage between them is possible. 


Karakansa chart plays an important part in 
development of a love affair. If Venus in conjunction 
with Mars, Mercury, Saturn or Rahu occupies the 
12™ house in horoscope, it may bring about physical 
involvement within the wider family or within the 
friends’ circle and it would become known to others. 


Ketu in 9 house in the karakamsa chart in 
conjunction with or aspected by Venus gives the 
person sexual involvement with persons one after 
the other till old age. 


70 If Mercury occupies the 5th house or the 11* house 


71. 


in the karakamsa chart and is in conjunction with 
Venus in the birth chart or in the navamsa chart, 
the person will start with platonic love affair and 
will end up in physical relationship, but both will 
have strong intellectual bonds between them. 


Venus in the |* or 7* house of karakamsa chart in 
conjunction with Moon, Mars, Mercury or Saturn 
or under aspect from any one of them will give 
extra-marital physical relationship without much of 
emotion. 


Chapter 3: Astrological Principles and Methods of Study of Marriage 39 


In all these rules mentioned above, it has to be noted 
that combinations taking Place in Taurus, Gemini, Virgo, 
Libra or Pisces make one of the partners to the love 
affair or marriage intelligent, sensible and sensitive. On 
the other hand if the combinations take Place in Aries, 
Leo, Scorpio, Sagittarius, Capricorn or Aquarius, one of 
the partners will be selfish, harsh, cruel, quarrelsome, 
rooted in jealousy and violence. 


3. Special Combinations for prohibited marriage 

A few selected combinations are given below which can 
lead to love affair or sexual relationship within 
prohibited degree of acts or with prohibited persons such 
as between a teacher and taught or between a teacher's 
progeny and his disciple or between a spouse of a 
teacher and the taught or between a teacher and the 
spouse of a disciple. In other words, prohibited degrees 
of such relationships are those which are prohibited by 
law of the land and also restraints imposed by religious 
scriptures. 


1. A benefic planet in the 1“, 5th, 7th, 9 or 12* house 
in conjunction with or under aspect from another 
benefic planet gives a relationship between a teacher 
and the taught or between any members of family 
of either side. 


2. If one of the benefic planets involved in rule no. | 
above is Venus and if the sign owned by Moon, 
Mercury or Jupiter is in the house occupied by the 
benefic planets, love affair will culminate into a 
formal marriage. 


3.If the combination in rule no. | or 2 above is vitiated 
by Mars, Saturn, or Rahu, the love affair or the 
marriage will be on the rocks within three to five 
years of marriage. 


40 Analysis of Marriage through Astrology 


4.If two persons of opposite sex have common 
ascendant or common Moon sign (Janma Rasi) and 
both have benefic planets in the 1%,5%, 7", or 9% 
house, an affair is likely to develop between a 
teacher and the taught or between members of their 
families. 


5. All the above four combinations can give an affair 
or a marriage between a brother-in-law and a sister- 
in-law or between a step brother and a Step sister. 


6. If the lord of the 3 or 9" house is in debilitation 
but occupies its own sign or sign of exaltation in 
the navamsa chart and such lord of the 3™ or 9* 
house is in conjunction with or aspected by Venus 
in the horoscope of a male or by Mars in the 
horoscope of a female, the person will have an affair 
or physical relationship which are prohibited within 
kith and kin. 


7. If exalted Moon or Venus is in the 1%, 4*, 7, or the 
10* house and is in the navamsa owned by the 
Sun, Saturn or Mars or that Moon or Venus is in 
the 2"? or 12* house in the navamsa chart or either 
of them is in the sign of debilitation in navamsa 
chart, the person will have an affair which are 
prohibited within kith and kin. 


8.If Moon or Sun are in conjunction within 10° in the 
1, 4" | 7" or 10 house and if they are at the 
same time in conjunction with or aspected by Mars, 
Venus, Saturn, or Rahu, they will give prohibited 
relationship followed by repentance and _ its 
subsequent revival too. 


9. If the 2™/, 4, or 12* house is owned by a malefic 
planet and the house is not associated with any 
benefic planet, the person will make constant efforts 


Chapter 3: Astrological Principles and Methods of Study of Marriage 41 


to develop relationship with a near relation of self 
or spouse. 


10. 1f the lords of the 2nd and the 12th houses are in 
signs owned by each other or in mutual conjunction 
or even in opposition to each other, the person will 
strive for relationship within the family of self or of 
the spouse. 


4. The results of the 7 lord occupying different houses 
The 7" house is the most important hour for judgment 
of marriage and married life. Its results depend upon 
the position of 7* lord in different houses i. from |“ 
house to 12* house. And also the position of different 
planets in the 7* house. 


The results of the 7" lord occupying different houses are 
given below. 


In the 1* house: - The native may marry someone he 
has known from his childhood or one has been brought 
up in the same house. The wife or husband of the native 
will be a stable and mature person. He will be intelligent 
and capable of weighing the pros and cons. Affliction 
of the 7* lord may entail constant travelling. If the 7° 
lord and Venus are afflicted, the native may be sensual 
and seek and have clandestine relationship with opposite 
SX. 


In the 24 house: - The native will get wealth from 
women or through marriage. If afflicted, one may earn 
money through despicable means as trading in flesh, 
women, not excluding his wife. If the second house is a 
dual sign and afflicted, more than one marriage is likely. 


In the 3 house: - If the 7” lord is afflicted in the 3° 
house, the native may indulge in adultery with a 
brother's or sister's married partner. 


42 Analysis of Marriage through Astrology 


In the 4" house: - This disposition gives a lucky and 
happy married partner with many children and comforts. 
If afflicted, domestic harmony may be spoiled through 
an immature and mean partner. If severely afflicted by 
Rahu and Ketu and other malefic, the character of the 
native's wife becomes questionable. 


In the 5" house: - The native may have an early 
matriage, the partner may hail from an affluent and 
well-to-do family. The wife or husband will be mature 
and of an advantage to the native. If the 7 lord will be 
weak, there may be no children. If severely afflicted, 
one may get issues through the adulterous conduct of 
the wife. If there are both malefic and benefic influences 
on the 7* lord, the native may get only female progeny. 


In the 6" house:- The native may have two marriages 
with both partners living. One may marry a cousin such 
as a maternal uncle's daughter. If 7* lord is badly 
afflicted and Venus, the karaka planet of marriage, is 
also ill-disposed, one may suffer from impotency and 
many other diseases. The native's wife may be sickly 
and jealous by nature denying the husband happiness 
from marriage. 


In the 7* house: - If 7" lord is well placed, the native 
will have a magnetic and charming personality. Women 
will flock to him and seek him out for alliance. The wife 
or husband will be a just and honourable person coming 
from a family of reputation and social standing. If 7* 
lord is weak and afflicted, it gives a lonely life devoid of 
marriage and friends, and also loss through marriage 
negotiations. 


In the 8* house: - When 7* lord is well placed in the 8* 
house, marriage may take place with relatives or the 
partner may be a rich person. Affliction may cause the 
early death of partner while the native may die in distant 


Chapter 3: Astrological Principles and Methods of Study of Marriage 43 


lands. It gives a sickly and ill-tempered wife or husband 
leading to estrangement and separation. 


In the 9* house:-If 7“ lord is well fortified in the 9* 
house, the native will get an accomplished spouse who 
will enable him to lead a religious life. If afflicted married 


partner may drag the native from the right course of 
life. 


In the 10* house: - The native will get a devoted and 
faithful spouse. The wife may be employed and 
contribute to the native's income or she may help in the 
advancement of the career of the native. If afflicted, 
wife will be avaricious and over-ambitious but without 
sufficient capacity. 


In the 11" house:- The native may have more than one 
marriage or the native may associate with many women. 
If beneficially disposed, wife may hail from a rich 
background or.bring in much wealth. If afflicted, the 
native may marry more than once, but one wife may 
outlive him. 


In the 12" house: - The native may marry a second 
time, may have more than one marriage. The native 
may marry second wife clandestinely while the first 
wife is still alive. Or, if afflicted, he may marry a second 
time after losing the first wife by death or separation. 
But if the affliction is severe, the wife or husband may 
die or separate soon after the marriage and there may 
be no second marriage. If both Venus and the 7* lord 
are weak and afflicted, the native may only dream of 
women but will never marry. 


The above results of position of 7" lord in different houses 
must not be applied literally to birth charts without 
considering the entire chart as a whole after assessing 
the strengths and weaknesses of several planets. 


44 Analysis of Marriage through Astrology 


5.Results of planets in the 7 house 

The Sun: - The native's marriage is delayed and troubled. 
He will lose his morals. His wife's character will be 
questionable. The native will run the risk of loss and 
disgrace through women. 


Moon: - The native will be passionate and easily roused 
to jealousy. Wife will be good looking but the native 
will seek company of other women: 


Mars:- The native will be hen-pecked by his wife and 
will be submissive to women. Married life will be full of 
tension and troubles. He may have two wives. Mars in 
the 7th house creates bhauma _ dosha. 


Mercury:-The native will have early marriage to a rich 
woman. He will be of good virtue and is a learned 
person. He may be expert in mathematics, astrology or 
astronomy. 


Jupiter: - The native will have.a good looking and chaste 
wife. He will get good education and gains through 
marriage. The native will possess good sons. 


Venus: - The native is passionate and sensuous and fond 
of quarrelling. He will have a devoted wife and will 
enjoy a happy married life, but he will have unhealthy 
habits and is fond of pleasure and drinking. He will 
have a magnetic personality. 


Saturn: - The native will be under the control of his 
wife who will be ugly or hunch-backed. He will have 
more than one marriage or he will marry a widow or 
divorcee or an aged woman. 


Rahu: - The native will have an affair with an outcaste 
women or a foreigner. His wife will suffer from womb 
disorders. If the native is a female, she will bring ill- 
repute to her family. 


Chapter 3: Astrological Principles and Methods of Study of Marriage 45 


Ketu: - The native will have an unhappy marriage with 
a shrewish, ill-tempered and quarrelsome wife. He will 
be passionate, sinful and lust after a widow. His wife 
will be sickly. 


6 Judgement of Marriage in Male Horoscope 
Marriage is judged from the 7" house from the ascendant 
and 7" house from the natal Moon. Venus is the natural 
karaka planet of 7th house i.e. natural karaka of 
marriage. Therefore, 7° house from natal Venus is also 
considered for judgment of marriage. - 


Besides 7” house, 2™, 4%, 11", and 12” houses and their 
lords are also to be examined for judgment of the 
marriage. The 2" house signifies the relative and 
establishment of relation with others. A person makes 
relations with other persons through marriage and 
therefore 2™ house and its lord have important bearing 
on marriage and status of the relative. The relation of 
the person with others depends on the strength of the 
2°? house, 2nd lord, planets posited in the 2"? house 
and the planets aspecting the 2™ house. 


4* house signifies dwelling house, domestic love, peace, 
pleasure and happiness and is karma kshetra of wife 
because the 4* house is the 10* from the 7* house. The 
wife, therefore, is the most important family member to 
make and unmake the husband's happiness and 
unhappiness, peace and disturbance. A scrutiny of this 
house is therefore essential. The lord of the 4* house, 
planets posited in the 4* house or aspecting the 4" house 
are required to be examined. As 4* house signifies mind 
of the native and is also 10* house from the 7" house, 
it is the house of activity of the wife. So the effect of the 
planets on the 4th house influences the formation of 
qualities of activities and character of the wife. When 
this house is heavily afflicted, the native is supposed to 
face family disturbances or is likely to be deprived of 


46 Analysis of Marriage through Astrology 


happiness of a family. This means a person will have 
such a wife who will be the cause of his constant 
disturbance and unhappiness in life or there is no chance 
of marriage in his destiny i.e. he will not marry a woman 
at all. 


11* house indicates permanent relation or long tie with 
wife. So 11* lord, planets posited in 11 house and 
planets aspecting the 11* house, Jupiter, the natural 
karaka of 11* house are also to be examined. If they are 
badly afflicted, weak and ill-placed in the nativity, there 
will be no permanent relation with wife and the marital 
relation is likely to be broken earlier. 


12* house signifies bed pleasure of the couple. So planets 
posited in or aspecting the 12* house and the 12* lord 
are all required to be examined. Affliction of the 12* 
house, the 12* lord and planets related to this house 
and its lord may deprive a native of the comfort of the 
company of his bed partner or coitus with his wife may 
not bring him satisfaction and pleasure. Therefore, 12* 
house has bearing with wife and marriage. 


Thus we see that the 2 4*, 7% 1]*and 12™ houses 
signify marriage and spouse. These houses from the 
ascendant, Moon and Venus should be considered and 
examined for judgment of wife and conjugal life. These 
houses ie. 2™, 4", 7, 11*, and 12* houses of the natural 
zodiac as well as from the Sun also influence the wife 
and conjugal life of the native. If these houses and their 
lords are weak, afflicted by conjunction or aspects of 
malefics and are ill-placed in a horoscope, the native 
may not be destined to marry a woman and if anyhow 
he gets married, he will experience either unhappiness 
or disturbance through his wife. 


Chapter 3: Astrological Principles and Methods of Study of Marriage 47 


7. Judgement of Marriage in Female Horoscope 

As discussed earlier, marriage is to be judged from the 
7* house from ascendant, Moon, and Sun. Mars signifies 
the sex life of a woman, hence the position, power and 
strength of Mars in a horoscope is the most important 
ingredient for judgment of marriage and married life of 
a woman. 


It is already discussed that the 2? house signifies 
kutumba ( relative), 4* house signifies dwelling house, 
family or domestic love, peace and happiness, 11* house 
signifies the long tie or permanent relation between the 
couple i. success of married life. 12* house indicates 
comforts from bed-partner. Therefore, strength and 
weakness of these houses and their lords also affect 
marriage and married life of a female native. 


The influences of benefic planets over 27° house and 24 
lord, 4th house and 4* lord, 7th house and 7* lord, |1* 
house and 11* lord and 12* house and 12* lord and 
over Moon, Mars and Venus make a woman marry a 
good and prosperous man in her early age of life. If 
there are influences of malefic planets over the above 
mentioned houses and their lords and also over Moon, 
Mars and Venus, there will be late and unhappy 
marriage. 


When the 7* houses from ascendant and Moon are 
owned by benefic planets and also are aspected by 
benefic planets, there will be early marriage. When 7* 
house is either occupied or aspected by Jupiter and there 
is no malefic influence over the 7* house, the native 
may get into marriage at an early age. When Mars is 
free from any affliction and at the same time either 
conjoined with or aspected by Jupiter, an early marriage 
of the native is indicated. If the lord of the 7" house 
joins a Kendra or trikona and is in the house of a friend 
or aspected by or conjoined with a friendly planet, the 
native is destined with an early marriage. 


48 Analysis of Marriage through Astrology 


When strong malefic planets like Saturn, Rahu etc are 
in the 7* house or when they aspect the 7* house, a 
woman is likely to be married late in age. When such 
malefic planets join Mars or aspect Mars, they also result 
into late marriage. When 7* house is owned by a malefic 
planet and also aspected by or conjoined with malefic 
planets, the marriage will be delayed. Saturn is 
responsible for very late marriage. 


When 274, 4% 7 11* and 12*, houses from ascendant, 
Moon, Sun, Venus and Mars and their lords are heavily 
afflicted, they deprive a woman of marriage. 

When ascendant or Moon, whichever is stronger, is in 
Taurus or Libra sign and is in trimsamsa of Saturn and 
is also afflicted, a woman is likely to have more than 
one marriage. When benefic and malefic both join the 
7* house, a woman is likely to become a widow and to 
be remarried. When ascendant or Moon is in movable 
sign and benefics are in Kendra from lagna or Moon as 
the case may be, a woman will have two marriages. 
When Rahu along with Venus or Moon joins ascendant 
or 2"! house and 7* house are also afflicted by strong 
malefic, a woman leaves her husband and marries again. 


When 7" house from lagna or Moon is owned by 
Mercury and trimsansa of Saturn rises and 7* lord is 
weak, the husband of the woman is likely to be impotent. 
When the 7 house from ascendant or Moon is a house 
owned by Mercury and the same is conjoined with 
Mercury, the result is similar. When the 7* house is 
weak and unaspected by benefic planet and the 7* lord 
is also weak and Mercury is in 7* house, the husband 
is also likely to be impotent. When Mercury is in 7* 
house in the navamsa of Saturn or Saturn is in 7* house 
in the navamsa of Mercury and is not conjoined with or 
aspected by benefic planets, the husband of the woman 
will be impotent. 


Chapter 3: Astrological Principles and Methods of Study of Marriage 49 


Generally Jupiter's transit determines the marriage. When 
Jupiter passes through any of the 7" house from 
ascendant, Moon, Sun, Mars or.through the houses 
where Mars or 7® lord are situated in the natal chart or 
Jupiter aspects any one of them, one is likely to be 
married. If at the same time a malefic like Saturn, Rahu 
or Ketu influences any of the houses by aspect or 
conjunction, marriage may be delayed. 


In a horoscope, where 7 house and its lord and karaka 
planet Mars are afflicted by Saturn, Rahu or Ketu either 
by conjunction or aspect, they become determinant of 
marriage i.e. marriage takes place when afflicting planet 
or planets at the time of birth afflict the afflicted the 
house and planets again in transit. In such cases, the 
husband bears much of the qualities of the afflicting 
planets. 


CHAPTER-4 
Sex Potentiality 


. Normal(Controlled) sex desire of man and woman 

Quality of sex in a couple is the most important 
determinant of quality of conjugal life and happiness. If 
there is balanced and controlled sex desire and habit in 
the life of a couple, their conjugal life will be happy and 
peaceful and if there is uncontrolled and unbalanced 
sex desire, there will be problem in their conjugal or 
married life. 


Venus is the most important of the planets which 
governs sex life in a male. Her strength, position and 
situation in a horoscope and relation with other planets 
are very important in judging the sex life in a male. 
When Venus is well-placed, strong, and powerful and 
unafflicted in a nativity, she gives a balanced sex life. 
Similarly nature, strength, situation, position of the 7* 
lord and its association with other planets, benefic or 
malefic, are also considered for examination. 


A planet is unafflicted when it is neither conjoined with 
nor aspected by any malefic planet. A planet is said to 
be afflicted when the same is either conjoined with or 
aspected by malefic planet. When a planet is conjoined 
with or aspected by both benefic and malefic planets, it 
possesses the dual character. Such situation may result 
into both benefic as well as malefic affects of quality of 


Chapter 4: Sex Potentiality 51 


sex life. But the stronger planet (benefic or malefic) will 
be predominant. When the conjoining or aspecting 
benefic planet is stronger than the conjoining or 
aspecting malefic planet, the evil affects of the malefic 
planets will be completely checked. When the afflicted 
planet is situated in a house of a benefic planet, the 
effects of evil forces (malefic planet) are very much 
minimized, but when a planet is posited in the house of 
a malefic planet, the evil qualities increase. 


Taurus (Vrish) is the own house of Venus and Libra 
(Tula) is her both own as well as mooltrikona house. 
Pisces (Meena) is her exaltation house and Virgo (Kanya) 
is the house of debilitation. When Venus is situated in 
her own house, in the house of mooltrikona or in the 
house of exaltation, she gives one a balanced sex life, 
provided she is not in any way weak and afflicted. 


Saturn, Mars, Sun, waning Moon, Rahu, Ketu and 
afflicted Mercury are known as malefic planets and out 
of them Saturn, Mars, Rahu and Ketu are highly malefic 
planets. When a malefic planet becomes yoga karaka 
and is placed in a house of benefic planet, the malefic 
character of the planet is much minimized. When Rahu 
or Ketu is well placed in a nativity or situated in a 
house of benefic or is conjoined with a benefic planet, 
the malefic characters of the planets are much 
minimized. When Venus is situated in a house owned 
by any one of the above planets and also conjoined 
with or aspected by any one of them, sex life of a male 
is likely to be disturbed and unbalanced. When Saturn 
Mars, Rahu or Ketu makes relationship with Venus by 
aspect or conjunction, a male is likely to have an 
unbalanced sex life. If Venus is in the house of Mars or 
Saturn and is also aspected by Mars or Saturn, a person 
is sure to suffer horn troubled sex life. If the above are 
also aspected by or conjoined with any benefic planet, 
particularly Jupiter there may not be any trouble. The 


52 Analysis of Marriage through Astrology 


influence of Mars or Rahu over Venus by association or 
aspect makes a person highly sexy. If Venus is situated 
in a house of a malefic and is also devoid of any benefic 
conjunction or aspect, the person becomes highly sexy, 
that is, he may be involved in an abnormal sex acts. 


Jupiter, waxing Moon and unafflicted Mercury are 
benefic planets and therefore their conjunction with 
Venus or their aspect over Venus are always considered 
good for normal sex life in a male horoscope. Jupiter is 
a highly benefic planet and his association with Venus 
is always good for balanced and normal sex life. Venus 
the ruler of sex life is also by nature a benefic planet. 


First, 4*, Tp. and 10* houses are known as Kendra 
(square) and Ist, 5* and 9* houses are known as trikona 
(trine). First house is common to kendra and Trikon.That 
is why ascendant lord is treated as raja yoga karaka 
When lords of these houses are associated with Venus 
by conjunction or aspect, the happiness of the sex life 
of a native increases while association of Venus with 
other planets particularly lords of evil houses (6",8',12") 
is not good for normal and balanced sex life. When 
Venus is in an evil house or in the house of her 
debilitation (Virgo) and also being afflicted, she (Venus) 
causes harm to the sex life of a male. Afflictions of 
Vrisha Rasi, 8th house, 8th lord are always bad for sex 
life. When 8* house or 8* lord is afflicted by a strong 
malefic it causes dusfunction of sexual organs leading to 
the troubled sex life of the native. 


The Sun is the ruler of body, reputation, position and 
status etc. The Moon controls over mind and emotion. 
When these two luminary planets are well guarded in 
a nativity, they make a native very careful about his self 
respect and make him mentally strong. Well guarded 
Sun and Moon always fight and counteract the malefic 
influence of afflicted Venus i.e. malefic Venus. 


Chapter 4: Sex Potentiality 53 


Mars is a planet which governs the sex life in a female 
and therefore his position and strength are very important 
to build up sex life in a female horoscope. A powerful 
and unafflicted Mars gives a normal, controlled and 
balanced sex desire in a woman resulting in normal and 
good conjugal or sexual life. 


Scorpio (Vrishchika) is a house of Mars. Aries (Mesh) is 
his own as well as mooltrikona house.Capricornus 
(Makara) is his house of exaltation. A well guarded Mars 
is always good for sex life in a female horoscope, but a 
powerful and strong Mars is likely to make one over 
sexy. A strong Mars always makes a woman sex 
conscious in early age. A weak Mars generally makes a 
female cold about her sex life. Afflicted Mars is always 
bad. When Mars is in a malefic house and is also 
conjoined with or aspected by malefic planet, the balance 
of sex life in a female is destroyed. When Mars is afflicted 
by conjunction or aspect of lords of evil houses, it is also 
bad for sex life. Affliction of Scorpio, 8* house and 8* 
lord are also not desirable. 


As women are mostly led by their emotions, Moon the 
karaka planet of emotion is the most important planet 
in a female horoscope. When Moon is weak and afflicted 
in a female nativity, a female is liable to be weak minded 
and also can be easily influenced by others. When Moon 
is afflicted, the mental balance of a woman is disturbed 
and therefore a weak and afflicted Moon in a female 
horoscope is liable to bring troubles in the life of the 
native. If in such a horoscope Mars is also afflicted and 
weak, she will be easily influenced by persons of opposite 
sex and is likely to lead an undesirable sex life. The Sun 
controls name, fame reputation etc and in a horoscope 
where Sun, Moon and Mars all are afflicted a woman 
is likely to lead a very wretched life. 


54 Analysis of Marriage through Astrology 


Case Study No. 1 
DOB: -22-05-1953; TOB: -13-48 hrs; POB: -Sri Dungargarh. Sex - M 


Birth Chart 


2 Mars, Jup 


Sun, Mere 


ME 


The following is the horoscope of a person who leads a 
very harmonious conjugal life. He has a balanced sex 
life. 


In the given horoscope, the ascendant is Leo and the 
ascendant lord the Sun is posited in the 10* house and 
conjoined with 5" lord Jupiter, 9* lord Mars and 2"°/ 
11" lord Mercury. The Sun is also aspected by Rahu 
from the 6* house, an upachayasthan, in the sign of 
Capricorn. Therefore, the Sun becomes powerful. 
Although Rahu is natural malefic but due to aspect of 
Jupiter from the 10" house, maleficness of Rahu is 
destroyed to a great extent. Therefore, its aspect on the 
Sun does not diminish his (Sun's) strength. Further, the 
Sun being ascendant lord conjoined with trine lords 
Jupiter and Mars becomes a powerful rajayoga karaka 
planet. Therefore, the Sun becomes powerful functional 


Chapter 4: Sex Potentiality 55 


benefic planet. Now the 7" lord from the ascendant/ 
Moon is Saturn which is posited in the 2" house being 
retrograde and aspected by Rahu, exalted Venus and 
Jupiter. This indicates that there is good amount of sex 
desire in the native but due to benefic aspect of Jupiter 
and due to powerful ascendant lord the sex desire of 
the native is under control and normal to a great extent. 


Although Moon is 12* lord, her position in ascendant 
reduces the dosh (blemish) of being 12" lord. Further 
the Jupiter is in Kendra (10™ house) from Moon. 
Therefore, this position creates Gaja Keshari yoga. 
Further ascendant is in her friend's sign. Moon is also 
not aspected by any malefic but hemmed between two 
malefic Saturn and Ketu, creating a papa kartari yoga. 
Therefore Moon is a powerful planet with slight 
affliction. Now the lord of the 7* house from Moon is 
Saturn. Therefore as per interpretation given in the 
previous paragraph, the sex desire of the native will 
also remain under control and will lead a normal sex 
life. 


Venus is posited in the 8* house being exalted. Dispositor 
of Venus is Jupiter which is placed in Kendra. Venus is 
also posited in Revati nakshatra which creates special 
raja yoga. Venus is at deep exaltation point and is 
aspected by 7* lord Saturn which becomes a functional 
benefic planet (Saturn being a natural malefic is Kendra 
lord).Further Saturn's maleficness due to aspect of Rahu 
is neutralized by benefic aspect of Jupiter. Further Saturn 
is a friend of Venus. Therefore Venus is most powerful. 
Although 8* house is evil house Venus is the planet 
which gives good result in 8* house also. Further Venus 
is vargottam being placed in the same sign in birth as 
well as navamsa charts. Therefore, Venus becomes 
powerful. Now 7* house from the Venus is posited by 
Saturn and aspected by Rahu, Jupiter and Venus. The 
7* lord Mercury is conjoined with 5* lord Jupiter, 9th 


56 Analysis of Marriage through Astrology 


lord Mars and lagna lord Sun. Therefore sex desire of 
the native will be well in control. 


Therefore keeping in mind the strengths of the Sun, 
Moon and Venus and also 7" houses and 7" lords from 
them, it can be inferred that the native leads a happy 
conjugal life as well as balanced and normal sex life. 


Case Study No. 2 


DOB: -28-08-1956; TOB: -16-00 hrs; POB: -Burdwan (WB). Sex - F 


Birth 


The above is the horoscope of a female who leads a 
very harmonious conjugal life. She has a balanced and 
normal sex life. 


Ascendant is Capricorn and its lord Saturn is posited in 
the 11™ house, conjoined with Rahu and aspected by 7* 
lord Moon. This, being the combination of Kendra lord 


Chapter 4: Sex Potentiality 37 


and trikona lord, creates a raja yoga. Saturn aspects 
ascendant, therefore ascendant as well as ascendant lord 
both are powerful. The 7th lord from lagna is Moon 
which is posited in 5* house being exalted and aspected 
by lagna lord Saturn. This indicates love and harmony 
in conjugal life. Moon is also aspected by Mars and has 
Kendra relationship with Jupiter. Therefore, sex desire 
in the native will be very much under control and 
normal. 


The 7* house from Moon is posited by Rahu and Saturn 
and its 7" lord Mars is posited in the 10* from Moon 
and aspected by Jupiter. Therefore, 7* lord Mars gets 
digbala and hence becomes powerful. This indicates 
control in sex desire. 


The Sun is 8* lord posited in the 8* house and creates 
Sarala Yoga. Besides Jupiter, being the 12* lord, posited 
in 8* house creates vipareet raja yoga. Further Jupiter 
and Sun are aspected by 4* lord Mars and ascendant 
lord Saturn. Therefore, considering all the above factors, 
Sun is powerful. The 7* house from the Sun is occupied 
by Mars and aspected by Jupiter. The 7" lord from the 
Sun is posited in 4" from the Sun. This also indicates a 
balanced sex life. 


Besides, Jupiter is 7" lord from Venus situated at 3rd 
from Venus and aspected by Mars. Therefore, normal 
sex life is also indicated by it 


For female horoscope Mars is the most important. In 
this nativity there is exchange of house between Mars 
and Saturn. The position of Mars in the house of Saturn 
indicates that Mars is powerful. Mars is also aspected 
by most benefic Jupiter and another benefic planet Venus 
is in trine of Mars. Therefore Mars is powerful and well 
placed. 


358 Analysis of Marriage through Astrology 


Venus is in the 6* house in the sign of Mercury which 
is well placed in the 9* house being 9* lord. Therefore, 
affliction of Venus due to position in 6" house (an evil 
house) is reduced. 


Considering all the above factors it appears that benefic 
influences on the above mentioned planets and houses 
are more than the malefic influences. Therefore, it can 
be inferred that the sex life of the native is balanced 
and normal. 


Slight affliction of houses and planets ruling sex life 
makes the conjugal life happier like a pinch of salt makes 
vegetables and pulses tasty and thus pleasurable. 


2.Loose_character_of a male person 

The 7* house and 7 lord signify marriage (sexual life) 
in a male nativity; Venus is the natural karaka of 
marriage, 7* house and sex. The 12* house and 12% 
lord indicate his extra-marital relation with women. Of 
them Venus is the most important and this planet is 
chiefly to be considered while judging the character of 
a male person. When Venus is in the house of a malefic 
planet and is in any way related with Mars, Rahu and 
Saturn and is devoid of any benefic influence, it is likely 
that the person will have a relation with women other 
than his wife. When Rahu afflicts Venus by aspect or 
by conjunction in a malefic house, it makes the man 
highly sexy. Similarly when Rahu damages the 7* house 
/ 7* lord and 8* house/8" lord and if the same afflicted 
house or planets are not guarded by conjunction or 
aspect of a benefic planet, the similar result is observed. 
In the same way the relation of Venus with Mars in 
either in Lagn a or in Navamsa or in Trimsamsa charts 
give the same results 


When afflicted Venus is in the 7" house or when the 7* 
lord is conjoined with Rahu or in opposition to Rahu 


Chapter 4: Sex Potentiality 59 


and is not aspected by or conjoined with any benefic 
planet, one is likely to have unlawful relation with 
women other than his wife. When both Venus and the 
lord of the 7" house are posited in a house of a malefic 
planet and are devoid of benefic influence, the person is 
likely to have loose sex life. 


When Venus is in the 7* house in navamsa of Mars and 
is also aspected by Mars and is in no way guarded by 
aspect of or conjunction with any benefic planet, one is 
likely to have sex relation with married women. When 
Venus is in the 7* house in navamsa of Mars and is 
also aspected by Saturn, similar result is produced ic. 
illegal relation with married women. When Venus is in 
the 7* house in the navamsa of Saturn and is also 
aspected by Saturn and is devoid of any benefic 
influence, the native is likely to have illicit relation with 
a married woman older than his age. When Venus is in 
7* house in the navamsa of Saturn and is aspected by 
Mars, one is likely to have relation with a married 
woman. 


When lords of the 7* and the 2™ houses together with 
Venus join the ascendant and no benefic planet joins 
* them or aspects them, one is likely to have a questionable 
sex life. When the lord of ascendant joins the lord of the 
6* house and both of them are afflicted by malefics, the 
result will be the same. When lords of the ascendant 
and the 2? house are posited in the 7* house and 
conjoined with any malefic and also conjoined with or 
aspected by the 6* lord, the person is likely to have 
connection with women other than his wife. When the 
lords of the 6* and the 7* houses join the 9* house and 
are either conjoined with or aspected by any malefic 
planet, they make a person too much sexy. When the 
lords of 21 and 7* houses join the 10* house along 
with the 6* lord and be. in any way afflicted, they bring 
illegal sex relation in a man's life. 


60 Analysis of Marriage through Astrology 


6* house is house of enemy i.e. house of senses ti) 
Kama (ii)Krodh (ii) Lobha (iv) Moha (v) Mada 
(vi)Matsarya. Therefore all kinds of desires are controlled 
by this house. When 6" house or 6* lord are heavily 
afflicted and they make a relation with any of the houses 
or planets ruling the sex partner, one will be rough 
about his sex life, may indulge into violent behaviors 
etc. When a malefic planet is the lord of the 6* house 
and it makes a relation with the house or planets ruling 
the sex partner, similar result may be witnessed. 
When the 7 house and the 7* lord are afflicted, Jupiter 
and Mercury, both benefic planets, are also afflicted; 
one is likely to lead an immoral life. When the 7* house 
and the 7* lord are afflicted along with Venus and Moon 
who rule sex and mind respectively, similar results are 
produced. 


When in a horoscope, Venus is afflicted and at the same 
time the Sun ruling over position and status is also 
afflicted; the person will have illicit relation with women 
and will also incur financial losses through them. 

When Venus is either in the house of Mars or Saturn 
and is also aspected by either of them without being 
guarded by any benefic, a man will have a loose sex 
life. Afflicted Venus in the 7* house makes a man 
connected with a woman who has already enjoyed her 
sex life. He will also fall from position and status. 


Influence of Saturn, Rahu and Ketu over Venus in the 
7* house makes a man connected with a low born 
woman. Similar result will be found when the lord of 
the 7* house is connected with Saturn, Rahu or Ketu in 
a nativity. 


Jupiter rules religious tendency and therefore an 
unafflicted Jupiter makes a man God-fearing. When 
Jupiter is in the house of either Mars or Saturn or in the 
navamsa of either of them and is also aspected by or 


Chapter 4: Sex Potentiality 61 


conjoined with any of them or with Rahu, a man can 
easily give up his social customs manners and bindings 
and also religious ties for the sake of illegal sex pleasure. 
In such a horoscope if any of the houses or planets 
ruling sex life, particularly Venus is afflicted, one is likely 
to lead an undesirable sex life. 


When the 7* house is owned by either Saturn or Mars 
and Moon and Venus are posited there, the native will 
lead a worst sex life. When afflicted Venus along with 
Mars joins the 7" house, one will lead an undesirable 
sex life. When Venus and Mars join the 10* house and 
are afflicted, a similar result is also produced. 


Mercury rules over speech, intelligence, wisdom etc and 
therefore a strong Mercury can counteract many an evil 
in our lives. Weak and afflicted Mercury is a bar for 
sound judgement and decision. When afflicted Mercury 
along with Venus joins the 7* house, it is bad for normal 
sex life. The position of such Mercury along with Venus 
in 8" house or 10* house is also not desirable. When 
these two planets ic. Mercury and Venus join 7°, 8 or 
10* house which is owned by a malefic planet and when 
none of them is either aspected by or conjoined with 
benefics, a person will have a sex relation with a woman 
other than his wife and will make many blunders due 
to such relation. 


When malefic Venus is in the 10th house of Moon and 
Moon is also afflicted by Saturn, the person will be 
mentally weak and his mind Will be always influenced 
by sex-hunger and he is likely to lead an undesirable’ 
sex life as the ultimate effect. When the 7th house is 
owned by Venus and Venus and Mercury both join that 
house along with Saturn, the person will have too much 
sex desire in him and is likely to lead a questionable sex 
life. 


62 Analysis of Marriage through Astrology 


When Venus, 7th house and 7* lord are influenced by 
Rahu by conjunction or aspect, a person becomes too 
much sexy and the result will be a questionable sex life. 
When the 7* lord, a malefic, is either in ascendant or in. 
the 7* house and is also afflicted, the native leads a 
loose sex life. Similar will be the result when afflicted 7* 
lord joins either 2nd or 12* house. When the lord of the 
7* house joins a house owned by a malefic and is either 
conjoined with or aspected by a malefic, the native is 
likely to lead a loose sex life. 


9* house rules the social customs, religious creeds etc 
and when the lord of this house joins the lord of the 8* 
house owned by a malefic planet and also be afflicted; 
a person does not care for his customs, family and 
religious bindings etc in the matter of leading his sex life 
and ultimately suffers from it. 


When the lord of the ascendant joins the lord of the 6* 
house in a malefic house and.both are afflicted, they 
make a person highly sexy and loose in character.:4* 
house rules many important factors of our lives and 
particularly our family or domestic lives. When 4* house 
is occupied and aspected by malefic planets and either 
7* lord or Venus is afflicted, one is likely to lead a loose 
sex life and thereby will cause much unhappiness in the 
family. 


When an afflicted Moon joins the 9" house in a male 
horoscope one will have illicit sex relation with a woman 
older than him in age. When Moon along with Mars 
and Saturn joins the 7" house, one will have illicit 
connections with many women and his wife will also 
have questionable character. Combination of Moon, Mars 
and Saturn in any house may make a man and his wife 
both immoral if the houses and planets ruling the sex 
life are otherwise not strong. When waning Moon joins 
the 7* house and is also conjoined with a malefic planet, 


Chapter 4: Sex Potentiality 63 


one will have a loose sex life. When the Moon and the 
Sun both join in a house which is a Kendra house from 
the ascendant and these two planets are also either 
conjoined with or aspected by a malefic, one will have 
sex with a woman who is an aunt in relation to the 
person or similar to that. 

When the lord of the 4" house is unaspected by any 
benefic planet but is either conjoined with or aspected 
by malefic planet and if lagna lord is weak and 7* lord 
is afflicted, one will have sex with a woman who is 
similar to aunt in relation. When the lord of the 9th 
house joins either Moon or Venus and is also conjoined 
with a malefic planet, one will have an illicit relation 
with a woman like his uncle's wife or woman of similar 
status. 


12* house rules the extra-marital life and happiness from 
bed-mates. When Venus is in 12* house, it generally 
leads a man to have a paramour. When such Venus is 
afflicted, the evil influence of women is sure to come. 
An unafflicted Venus may be counteracted by the 
strength of other planetary forces, but the position of 
Venus in the 12* house is always bad so far as sex is 
concerned. The number of malefic planets in the 12* 
house indicates the number of paramours in the life of 
a person. 


While applying the combination suggesting the looseness 
of character, one must carefully judge the strength and 
position of Venus in the horoscope and also whether 
any benefic planet has influenced the combination or 
not. Venus is the most important of planets to build up 
the character of a man and strong and unafflicted Venus 
may counteract the malefic influence of the combinations. 
Similarly, when a benefic planet conjoins or aspects any 
of the planets making any of the above combination it 
may counteract the evil influence of the combinations. 


64 Analysis of Marriage through Astrology 


Case Study No. 3 
DOB: 03-12-1961; TOB: - 04-39-00pm; POB: - Jaipur ( Raj). Sex - M 


Ven, Merc, ; 


This horoscope belongs to a extremely sexy person 
making him a man of loose character. Venus is the 
natural karak planet of marriage, Sex and the 7th house. 


In the given chart Venus is lord of Lagna and 6th house 
posited in the 7th house in Scorpio, a sign of malefic 
planet Mars and conjoined with Mars and Sun. It also 
conjoins with Mercury, a dual planet. Venus and 
Mercury are in the nakshatra of Saturn. Rahu's aspect 
on Venus and Mars in the house of sex aggravates the 
sexual appetite of the native. The 8th lord Jupiter is 
conjoined with natural malefic Saturn and Ketu and 
aspected by Rahu. Therefore, this combination further 
increases the sexual desire of the native. The aspect of 
Rahu on the 7th house, 7th lord and Venus without 
any benefic influence propels the native to lead a loose 
sex life. 


Chapter 4: Sex Potentiality 65 


As per para one of this chapter, Venus in malefic sign 
Scorpio with Mars and Sun in the nakshatra of Saturn 
becomes strongly afflicted Therefore, the male native 
becomes highly sexy and has acquired uncontrolled sex 
desire. 


In the navamsa chart Venus is in the 7th house and 
aspected by Mars from the 12th house. Venus is also 
aspected by natural malefic Saturn. This also indicates 
that the native may have loose sex life. 

Under the influence of these combinations the native 
has maintained relation with women other than his wife 
to satisfy his sexual desire. 


Case Study No.4 
DOB: 18-01-1964 TOB: - 19-35 hrs; POB: - Kolkata (Central) Sex - M 
Birth 


This horoscope belongs to a man of loose character. 
In the given chart Lagna is in Leo in the nakshatra of 
Ketu. The Lagna lord Sun is posited in the 6th house in 


66 Analysis of Marriage through Astrology 


its own nakshatra and conjoined with 7th lord Saturn 
and Mars. Venus is posited in the 7th house in the sign 
of Saturn and conjoined with 12th lord Moon. Both 
Venus and Moon are posited in the nakshatra of Rahu 
and aspected by Rahu. This combination indicates that 
the native is a highly sexy person with uncontrolled sex 
desire. 


The 7th lord from Moon is the Sun posited in the 12th 
house from Moon and conjoined with Mars and Saturn. 
There is no benefic aspect on the Sun. Therefore, the 
Sun becomes afflicted causing immoral life. 


In Navamsa chart, sex karak Venus is posited in the 
8th house in the navamsa of a dual planet Jupiter and 
the 7th lord Saturn is in the navamsa of Mercury, also 
a dual planet and conjoined with Ketu. This suggests 
that the native has no fixity of mind and tries to 
maintain a clandestine sex relation with women other 
than his wife. 


All the above factors indicates that the native has 
tendency to lead a loose and immoral sex life. In fact 
the native leads an immoral life. 


3. Loose character _of a female person 

The character of a woman is to be judged from 7* house, 
7" lord, Mars and Moon. Of them Mars is primarily 
responsible for building up the character of a female. As 
women are mostly led by their emotion, the position of 
Moon in the nativity is the most important. Moon is the 
ruler of mind as well as the ruler of thinking quality. 
Therefore, consideration of position and strength of 
Moon is a must. A strong and unafflicted Moon can 
fight the evil forces of Mars and 7* house/7® lord, while 
afflicted and weak Moon adds to the strength of evil 
forces. 


The Sun rules the prestige, position, honour etc and as 
such the position of Sun is also an important factor to 


Chapter 4: Sex Potentiality 67 


be considered. An afflicted Sun can cause loss of 
reputation and position, while a strong and well-placed 
Sun can increase the same.Therefore, Powerful Sun 
makes the native a prestige, position and honour 
conscious while weak Sun will give the reverse result 
leading to loose character. 


If Mars, Moon, 7th house and 7* lord are afflicted by 
malefic planets Saturn and Rahu by their aspect or 
conjunction; they are likely to make a woman loose in 
character, unless they are protected by conjunction or 
aspect of benefic planets. Rahu's affliction over Mars in 
a female horoscope is likely to increase her sex desire, 
and sometimes the sex desire at an early age. It makes 
a woman highly sexy if Rahu is afflicted by a malefic 
planet. The stronger the affliction, the chances of fall is 
greater. When a malefic planet afflicts the above 
mentioned planets and houses from a very close degree, 
the chance of fall is stronger. 


Jupiter always protects a person from fall. All the benefic 
planets do good also, but Jupiter is the strongest of all 
the benefics. When Jupiter aspects or conjoins with Mars, 
Moon, 7* house or 7* lord he fights and negates the 
effects of evil forces. Whether he will be able to 
counteract the same depends upon his strength. A 
benefic and powerful Jupiter can protect a person from 
many an evil deed. 


Vrischika sign and 8* house govern the sex organs and 
sex desire of a person and therefore, the strength of the 
8th house 8th lord and Vrischika sign are to be 
examined. When these are afflicted by malefic planets, 
the sex desire of a person increases. When these are 
conjoined with or aspected by benefic planets, the sex 
desire in a person decreases and remains under control. 
6* house controls our senses and hence relation of 6* 
lord with houses and planets ruling the sex causes 
increase in sex desire of a native. 


68 Analysis of Marriage through Astrology 


When Mars is combusted by Sun's rays or is defeated in 
planetary war, the sex desire in a female decreases and 
may make a woman cold in her sex life. In such a 
situation, the sex desire in a woman may even be totally 
destroyed. 


4. Some combinations indicating looseness of character 
in_a female 

Some combinations indicating the loose character in a 

female are given below. But before applying these 
combinations in a female horoscope, one should carefully 
examine whether these combinations are protected by 
conjunction or aspect of benefic planets and also examine 
whether Mars, Moon and the houses ruling the sex life 
are protected by benefic planets or not. The results of 
the combinations vary according to these influences. 
The combinations are given below:- 

A native may have loose character when, in nativity, 

1. lagna or Moon, whichever is stronger, is in Aries 
and in trimsansa of Venus. 

2. ascendant or Moon, whichever is stronger, is in 
cancer sign and is in trimsansa of Mars or Moon 
being aspected by malefic planets. 

3. ascendant or Moon, whichever is stronger, is in 
Cancer and in trimsansa of Venus 

4. ascendant or Moon, whichever is stronger, is in Leo 
and is in trimsansa of Saturn, 

5. ascendant or Moon, whichever is stronger, is in 
Capricorn and is in trimsansa of either Mercury or 
Saturn. 

6. ascendant or Moon, whichever is stronger, is in 
Capricorn sign and in trimsansa of either Mercury 
or Saturn. 

7. ascendant or Moon, whichever is stronger, is in 
Aquarius and is in trimsansa of Mercury or Saturn. 

8. Venus is in navamsa of Mars and also Mars is in 
trimsansa of Venus and none of them is conjoined 


Chapter 4: Sex Potentiality 69 


10. 


11. 


12. 


13. 


14. 


15. 


16. 


with or aspected by a benefic planet. In such a 
combination, a loose woman may have also a 
permanent paramour. 

Moon, Venus and Mars are in the 7” house and 
have no benefic influences, a woman may establish 
sex relation with a person other than her husband 
at the initiative of her husband, 

a person is born during night and ascendant is ruled 
by either Mars or Saturn and Venus is in ascendant 
without any benefic influence. 

a person born during night and if the ascendant is 
ruled by either Mars or Saturn and Moon is posited 
in ascendant without any benefic influence. 

Moon is in the 7* house in the navamsa of Mars or 
Saturn and is aspected by or conjoined with a malefic 
and is not guarded by benefic conjunction or aspect, 
a woman may lead a loose sex life at the initiative 
of her husband. 

a person born during day time and afflicted Venus 
is either in navamsa of Mars or Saturn without 
benefic conjunction or aspect, a woman may lead a 
loose sex life within the knowledge of her husband. 
a person is born during night time and afflicted 
Moon is either in navamsa of Mars or in the 
navamsa of Saturn without any benefic influence, a 
woman may have sex with another person with the 
knowledge or consent of husband. 

two or more malefic planets are in the 7* house 
either from the ascendant or from the natal Moon, 
whichever is a stronger, and are not conjoined with 
or aspected by any benefic planet. 

a person is born when both Aquarius ascendant 
and Vrisha navamsa rises and Saturn is in navamsa 
of Venus and Venus is in navamsa of Saturn. 


. ascendant or Moon, whichever is stronger, is in Aries 


sign and is in Trimsamsa of afflicted Mars. 


70 Analysis of Marriage through Astrology 


Case Study No, 5 
DOB: -27-05-1970; TOB: - 08-18 pm; POB: - Kolkata Sex - F 
Birth Chart 


> 
Mars,Merc 7, 


Via 


This horoscope belonged to a woman of loose Character. 
In spite of being married she has a paramour. 

In the female chart we have to study the position and 
strength of 7th house, 7th lord, Moon, Mars and Venus 
as they play a vital role in building up the moral 
character of a woman. 


In the given chart Lagna is in Dhanu in the nakshatra 
of Ketu and aspected by Mars and Venus. Lagna lord 
Jupiter is retrograde and posited in the 11th house in 
the sign of Venus and aspected by Rahu, 7th lord 
Mercury and Saturn. Hence Jupiter is afflicted. 


The 7th house is posited by Mars and Venus and 
aspected by Rahu and Saturn. So the 7th house is 
afflicted. 


Chapter 4: Sex Potentiality 71 


The 7th lord Mercury, a dual planet, is posited in the 
Sth house in the sign of Mars and conjoined with Saturn, 
hemmed between two malefic planets Rahu and Sun. 
Therefore, the 7th lord is afflicted. 


Moon is posited in the 3rd house in the sign of Saturn, 
conjoined with Rahu and also in the nakshatra of Rahu. 
This indicates that Moon is afflicted. 


Conjunction of Mars and Venus in the birth chart and 
position of Mars in the navamsa of Venus indicate that 
the native has extra-marital relation. 


The 7th house from Moon is posited by Ketu and 7th 
lord Sun is posited in the sign of Venus, in the nakshatra 
of 8th lord Moon without any benefic aspect. This also 
increases the sexual appetite of the native. 


In the navamsa chart ,Venus is posited in the 7th house 
in the navamsa of Saturn and Mars is in the navamsa 
of Venus and conjoined with Saturn. This further 
indicates that the native might have sex before marriage. 
The above combinations and position of planets suggest 
that the native has a loose moral character and also has 
a paramour in her life. In fact the native, though married, 
has a clandestine sex relation with a paramour. 


Case Study no. 6 
DOB: -10-11-1973; TOB: - 04-05 am; POB: - Howrah Sex - F 
Birth Chart 


72 Analysis of Marriage through Astrology 


Navamsa Chart 


Mars 
un,Merc,Rahu 2 


This is the horoscope of a woman of respectable family 
though married she has a paramour. 


To examine the character of a woman we have to study 
the position and strength of the 7th house/7th lord/ 
from lagna, Moon, Mars and Venus. The position and 
strength of Moon, Mars and Venus should also be 
examined. 


In the given chart, let us examine the marriage and love 
affairs of the native. There are direct connections among 
the lords of 2nd, 7th and 11th house. Mars, the.lord of 
2nd and 7th houses, is in the 7th house and the lord of 
{1th house Sun is in the lagna being debilitated and 
aspected by Mars. Therefore, the native is promised with 
marriage but as the 11th lord Sun is debilitated and in 
conjunction with 12th lord Mercury, the native is not 
satisfied and happy with the marriage. This indicates 
that the marriage of the native is not successful. 


Again let us examine the love affairs of the native. The 
relation among the lords of 2nd, 7th, 5th and 11th 
houses creates love affairs in the life of the native. In 
the given chart lords of 2nd, 7th and 5th are related 
through Rahu but lord of 11th house is not related to 
the lord of 5th house. This indicates that the native will 
have a love affairs only for satisfaction of her sexual 
desire but such relation will not culminate into marriage. 


Chapter 4: Sex Potentiality 73 


Mars and Moon are posited in the 7th house and 
aspected by Rahu, debilitated Sun and 12th lord 
Mercury. The 7th lord Venus from Moon and Mars is 
conjoined with Rahu and aspected by Saturn and in the 
nakshatra of Ketu. The Sth lord Sun from Moon is 
posited in the 7th house with 6th lord Mercury. The 7th 
house from Venus is posited by Ketu and Saturn and 
5th lord Mars is aspected by Sun. Thus, we find that all 
the 7th houses from Lagna, Moon , Venus and Mars are 
afflicted. This indicates that marital life of the native is 
not happy. All the lords of 5th houses from Lagna, Moon 
, Venus and Mars are connected with the debilitated 
Sun. This suggests that the native has a, love affairs 
with a high profile person which will never been 
culminated into marriage. 


The aspect of Sun on the 2nd lord Mars indicates that 
the native hails from a respectable family. 


These points confirm the result that the native, although 
from a respectable family and married, has a paramour. 


Case Study no. 7, 
DOB: -0€-08-1948; TOB: - 05-00 am; POB: - Ballia(UP) Sex - F 
Birth Chart 


Ne? 


74 Analysis of Marriage through Astrology 


Navamsa Chart 


fae Ketu 


Sun Rahu 


Ven Asc 
Merc 


The native of this nativity had extra-marital relation with 
her near relative. 


As this is a female horoscope, special attention is paid 
to Mars and Moon besides the 7* house, 7* lord and 
Venus during the examination of the horoscope. In the 
given chart Mars and Venus are both posited in the 
signs of Mercury. Mars is in the 3rd house in the Kanya 
which is in the trine of 7th house and Venus in Mithune 
in the 12th house which signifies bed pleasure. Lagna 
lord Moon is in the 2nd house which signifies Kutumba 
and conjoined with 7th and 8th lord Saturn. Moon in 
the nakshatra of Ketu and is also aspected by Rahu. 
Mars is in the sign of enemy, Venus is in the nakshatra 
of Rahu. Thus we see that Mars, Moon, Venus and 7th 
lord Saturn all are afflicted. Such affliction damages the 
conjugal life of the native but at the same time increases 
her sexual desire to be satisfied by extra-maririal relation. 
As lagna lord Moon and the 7th lord Saturn are in the 
2nd house in the sign of Sun and receive sensual aspect 
of Rahu, an attraction towards some male member of 
her kutumba ( near relatives} is developed for her sensual 
satisfaction. As Patikarak Mars and sex karak Venus 
are posited in the sign of Mercury, the male member 
may be her maternal uncle or somebody equivalent to 
that relation. 


Chapter 4: Sex Potentiality 75 


In the navamsa chart Saturn is in the navamsa of Mars 
with Moon in the 6th house and receives aspect from 
sensual Rahu. Mars is in the navamasa of Mercury in 
the 8th house. These observations further corroborate 
that the native has sexual relation with her maternal 
uncle or with any male from her maternal uncle side or 
from her kutumba (relatives). 


Analysis of the nativity justifies that the native, though 
married, has estranged married life and does not live 
with her husband. So she has sex relation with her 
maternal uncle. 


Case study No. 8 
DOB: -08-04-1972; TOB: - 18-32 hrs; POB: - Kolkata Sex - F 
Birth Chart 


Sun Mars 
Merc (R) Ven, Sat 


Sx 


Rahu, Moon 


This horoscope belongs to a woman who had sex before 
her marriage with a person of lower caste. 


76 Analysis of Marriage through Astrology 


In the given horoscope, lagnapati Venus is posited in 
the 8th house in its own sign and conjoined with the 
7th lord Mars and the 5th lord Saturn. All these planets 
are aspected by Rahu. Mars and Venus are in 
conjunction in the 8th house and have mutual exchange 
of house in the navamsa chart. They also receive sensual 
aspect of Rahu. Such positions of Mars and Venus 
indicate that the native has strong sex desire. So much 
so that she might have sex before marriage. Mars and 
Venus are also in the trimsamsa of a dual planet. This 
indicates that the native does not get sex satisfaction 
from a single male and therefore, she makes sex relation 
with different persons. This is also supported by the fact 
that the 12th lord Mercury, a karak of bed pleasure, is 
debilitated in the 6th house and 6th lord Jupiter is 
aspected by Mars and Rahu both. Moon in conjunction 
with Rahu. So Moon and Jupiter both are afflicted. 


The 7th house from Moon is pisited by Ketu and 
aspected by Saturn and Rahu. The 7th lord from Moon 
is Moon which is afflicted. Thus due to affliction of 
Moon, Mars and Venus the native does not have control 
over her sex desire. The affliction of Mars and Venus in 
the 8th house by the aspect of Rahu and Saturn indicates 
that the native has developed a relation with a low 
born person and might have begotten a child before 
marriage. All these factors suggest that the native has 
uncontrolled sex desire and has secret sex relation with 
a low caste person and has also begot a child out of this 
illegal sex relation. 


CHAPTER-5 
Number of Marriage 


i has already been discussed, the 7" house from 
ascendant, Moon, Venus etc and their lords rule 
the marriage. Therefore, the number of marriage may 
be determined according to the number of planets related 
with 7* house and 7* lord from Asc, Moon, and Venus. 
Venus is the natural Karaka planet of marriage and 
her influence in the marriage in a male horoscope is 
very strong and therefore the number of planets 
associated with Venus indicates the number of marriage. 


Besides the above there are many combinations 
suggesting more than one marriage. Therefore, we may 
witness more than one marriage in our lives due to the 
influence of such combinations without situation of 
planets in the 7* house or without association of planets 
with 7* lord or Venus. The influence of common sign 
over marriage or situation of Venus and the 7* lord in 
a common sign generally suggest more than one marriage. 
When Venus and the 7* lord both join common sign, 
one is likely to have more than one marriage. 


There are various works on astrology of ancient scholars 
suggesting many marriages. Books written in those days 
were based on the social structurés/ practices prevailing 
then. There were practices of polygamy in the ancient 
societies. Things have changed much today and will 


78 Analysis of Marriage through Astrology 


change again and again with the march of time. At 
present in India as per Hindu Marriage Act, a Hindu 
cannot marry two or more than two women at a time. 
Today nobody can think of two marriages. It is even 
forbidden by societies and in many places forbidden by 
law of the land. Then what will be the effect on a 
human being who has planetary combinations for many 
marriages and suggesting many living wives, while he is 
restricted to one marriage by the law of the land or by 
his religion? In such cases the interpretation of multi- 
marital combinations will be that the person will witness 
extra-marriage relations and he may have one marriage 
but at the same time he will have illicit relations with 
other women, 


1. Combination of one marriage 

When lords of the 2nd and the 7th houses are debilitated 
and the benefic planets are posited in the Kendra and 
Kona, the native will have one marriage only. 

The 2nd and the 7th lords are associated with a planet 
which is powerful in Shadabala, the native will have 
only one wife. 

If the 7th house is a benefic sign or is owned by Jupiter 
and it is either posited or aspected by Jupiter, the native 
will have one marriage. 

If Mercury is in the 7th house and be in a navamsa of 
Jupiter, the native will have one wife. 

If Sun is in the 6th or 12th house and the 7th lord is in 
the navamsa of either Sun or in the navamsa of Mars, 
the native will have one marriage. 


2. Combination of _more than one marriage 

When a malefic planet is in the 7* house or in the 8" 
house and Mars in the 12* house and the lord of the 7* 
house or Venus, the natural karaka of marriage, is in 
the common sign the native is likely to have more than 
one marriage. 


Chapter 5: Number of Marriage 79 


When the 7* house is occupied by malefic planets 
and the 7* lord is either in a dual sign or in the navamsa 
of dual sign, there will be more than one marriage. 

When the lord of 7* house is either in Kendra or in 
a trikona (trine) being in own house or in the exaltation 
house and is also aspected by the 10* lord, there is a 
likelihood of more than one marriage. 

When the 7 house is occupied by a planet or more 
planets and is conjoined with Venus, then the number 
of wives will likely to be equal to the number of planets 
conjoined with Venus including Venus. But the planet 
which is in its own house or in his house of exaltation 
in the 7* house will not be counted for the number of 
wives. 

If the lord of the 7* house occupies the 2™ house 
and if the said 2" house be in a house owned by Venus, 
the number of wives may be equal to the number of 
planets conjoining Venus or may be equal to the number 
of planets conjoining both Venus and the 7* lord. 

When the lords of 7* house and the 11* house are 
conjoined in one house or mutually aspect each other 
and 7* lord is posited in a common sign, more than one 
marriage is likely to take place. 


3. Combinations for two marriages 

When Saturn and Mercury are in the 7* house and two 
planets are in the 11* house, the native will have two 
wives. 

When the Lagna lord and the 7™ lord are posited in 
either Lagna or in the 7* house, there will be two 
marriages. 

When the 7* lord from the ascendant or from Moon 
is in a dual sign or in the dual navamsa and also 
conjoined with Venus, one is likely to have two 
marriages. 

When the lords of the 2" and the 7" houses are 
conjoined with malefic planets or Mars joins the 7" house 
and Saturn joins the 8* house, one will marry twice. 


80 Analysis of Marriage through Astrology 


When the lord of the 8* house joins the ascendant or 
the 7* house and the 7* lord are in a dual sign or are 
conjoined with malefic planets, there will be two 
marriages of the native. 


4. Combinations for three marriage 

When there are more than three malefic planets in the 
2™ house and the lord of the 2™ house is not posited in 
the 2™ house or it does not aspect the 2™ house and 
lord of the 2™ house is conjoined with or aspected by 
a malefic planet, one is likely to have three marriages. 

When Rahu Joins the 12* house and either of the 2™ 
or the 7* houses is conjoined with many malefic planets, 
then there is likelihood of three marriages. 

When the lord of the Lagna joins the 8" house with 
Mars and also Venus is situated in the 7* house from 
the natal Moon, they result into three marriages. 

When Mars ,Venus and Saturn are in the 7th house 
and the 7th lord is in the 8th house, the native will 
have three marriages 

According to some authors the first wife is judged 
from the 7* house from the ascendant, Moon, Venus 
etc. 2™ wife is judged from 9* house and third wife 
from 11" house and so on. 

Unmarried wife (kept) of a person is judged from the 
12* house. There are many such combinations found in 
the classical texts of astrology. 


Case Study No. 9 
DOB: -25-08-1953 ; TOB: - 02-00 pm; POB: - Kolkata Sex - M 
Birth Chart 


Chapter 5: Number of Marriage 81 


Navamsa 


This is the horoscope of a person who married twice. 
His first wife is dead and the 2™ wife is living. 


The number of marriage is determined from the number 
of planets associated with 7th house, the 7th lord and 
Venus , the natural karak of marriage/ the 7th house. 
In the above horoscope, the lagna is Dhanu, a dual 
sign and Lagna lord Jupiter is in the 6th house. The 7th 
lord Mercury being a dual planet is in the 8th house 
conjoined with Ketu, Mars and Venus and aspected by 
strong malefic Saturn and Rahu. As the 7th lord Mercury 
is in its own nakshatra in the 8th house with Mars and 
Venus extremely afflicted by malefics the native has 
uncontrolled sex desire and craving for its satisfaction. 
Now let us examine the number of marriage as indicated 
by the birth chart of the native. There is no planet in 
the 7th house from the lagna. The 7th house from the 
Moon is posited by the 7th lord Sun but not associated 
with another planet. The 7th lord Mercury is associated 
with three planets Ketu, Mars and Venus. Mercury and 
Venus will not be taken into account for consideration 
of number of marriage being the 7th lord as well as 
matriage karak respectively. There remain only two 
planets for consideration of marriage. Thus the number 
of marriage may be two. 


In the navamsa chart, the 7th lord Mars is associated 
with two planets Mercury and moon. This also 


82 Analysis of Marriage through Astrology 


corroborates that the native has destined with two 
marriages. The native married a girl much younger than 
him in age in 2006 within 6 months after the death of 
his wife during the mahadasa of Mercury and antardasa 
of Rahu. 


Case study No-10 
DOB:-13-12-1975, TOB:- 03-35, POB:- Kolkata. Sex:- Male 


Asc 
Ven, Rahu! 


10 Ven, Sup 
Moon 


This is the horoscope of a person who married thrice 
after divorcing of his first two wives. 


In the given birth chart, the 7th house from the lagna 
and Venus is posited by Ketu and the 7th lord Mars is 
in dual sign and aspected by Mercury and Rahu. The 
7th house from Moon also falls in the dual sign. This 
indicates that the conjugal life of the native is not happy 
and he desires to marry another woman to have love 
peace and happiness. 


Chapter 5: Number of Marriage 83 


Let us examine the number of marriage. The 7th house 
from Lagna and Venus is posited by a planet Ketu and 
the 7th lord Mars is associated with two planets Mercury 
and Rahu by aspect. There is no planet in the 7th 
house from Moon. Thus the toal number of planets ic. 
Mercury, Rahu and Ketu,. responsible for marriage are 
three. Therefore, the native may have three marriages. 
In fact the native married a woman on the Sth April 
2003 and divorced her in the December 2003. He again 
married another woman on the 23rd June 2004. Quite 
for a long time they remained seperated but ultimately 
the native divorced his second wife in the month of 
November 2010. Thereafter he married a third lady in 
the month of March 2011. It is expected that his third 
marriage will last because he is destined to have only 
three marriages. All these factors corroborate the 
planetary disposition in the birth chart to determine 
the number of marriage. 


Case Study No 11 
DOB: -22-11-1956; TOB: - 04-40 am; FOB: - Kolkata Sex - M 


Rahu, Sat Ase 
Sun,Merc] = Ven 


84 Analysis of Marriage through Astrology 


This is the horoscope of a person who has married thrice. 
The third marriage is after the death of his first two 
wives. 


The various combinations pertaining to more than one 
marriage are found in the classical text of astrology. 
One of such combinations is that when a number of 
malefic planets are found posited in the 2nd house from 
lagna and the 2nd lord does not aspect the 2nd house 
but it is aspected by a malefic planet then the native is 
likely to have three marriages. 


In the given birth chart, the lagna is Libra and lagna 
lord Venus is posited in the nakshatra of Mars and 
aspected by Mars' from the 6th house. The relation 
between Mars and Venus makes the native a highly 
sexy person. Therefore, he has strong desire to have a 
company of a woman. 


The 2nd house from the lagna is posited by four malefic 
planets. Rahu, Sun and Saturn are natural malefic planets 
and Mercury being the 12th lord is function malefic. 
Mercury is also malefic because of association with 
malefic planets. The 2nd lord Mars is posited in the 6th 
house and aspected by the 6th lord from the 12th house. 
It is also aspected by natural malefic Rahu from the 2nd 
house. 


Thus we see that the conditions of three marriages are 
fulfilled in this birth chart. Therefore, the native should 
have three marriage. In fact, the native has three 
marriage. The third marriage took place after the death 
of his first two wives. 


CHAPTER-6 
Late Marriage 


hen in a birth chart Saturn in any way is related 
y V with the 7* house, the 7" lord from the ascendant 
and Moon and Venus, the" natural karaka planet of 
marriage, there will'be delay in marriage provided there 
is also not favourable dasa /antardasa. But if Saturn, in 
transit, makes relation with the above planets and houses 
then there will be marriage during such transit. When 
Rahu makes a relation with marriage related houses and 
planets in the natal chart then there may be delay in 
marriage. But when Rahu, in transit, passes over these 
houses and planets then during such transit marriage 
will take place. The association or aspect of lords of the 
6" house, the 8" house or the 12™ house on the 7 
house and the 7" lords from the ascendant, Moon and 
Venus may cause delay in marriage. 


Mars is in oposition to either Sun or Jupitor and Saturn 
is an opsition to Moon or Venus then the native will 
marry a young girl at his middle age. 


If Moon and Venus are posited in the 7 house and are 
afflicted by Mars and Saturn and if at the same time 
Jupiter aspects either Moon and Venus or Mars and 
Saturn, marriage will be in the middle age with a young 
girl. 


86 Analysis of Marriage through Astrology 


If malefic planets create a relation with the 7 house or 
the 7" lord from the ascendant, Moon or Venus, the 
natural karaka of marriage, there will be delay in 
marriage. 


Generally conjunction of Venus and Mercury in the 7 
house is an obstruction to the marriage, but when they 
are aspected by Jupiter or by the waning Moon, there 
will be late marriage. 


While judging a horoscope, the combined results from 
the 7* house from the ascendant, Moon, Venus, Sun etc 
should be taken into consideration. If the early marriage 
is suggested by the 7" house from the ascendant but the 
7" houses from Moon, Venus, and Sun indicate 
obstruction in marriage. In such cases, there will be 
delayed marriage. Therefore, combined forces of the (a 
houses from lagna, Moon, Venus and Sun will give the 
final result or effect whatsoever. So the total strength of 
all the factors mentioned above should be taken into 
consideration while judging time and period of marriage. 


Case Study No-12 
DOB: -01-09-1976; TOB: - 18-51 hrs; POB: - Kolkata Sex - M’ 


Birth Chart 


oe we 
EK ee 


Oa 


Moon Rahu ven, Mars | 
Merc 


Chapter 6: Late Marriage 87 


This is a horoscope of a person who married in his 
thirty four years of his age. 

In a horoscope if Saturn is connected with Venus and 
the 7th house, the 7th lord from lagna or Moon, there 
will be delay in marriage of the native. But in transit if 
Saturn makes relation with the above houses and planets, 
there will be marriage provided there is favourable dasa/ 
antardasa at the time of transit of Saturn over the 7th 
house or 7th lord or natal Venus. 


When Jupiter, in transit, makes relation with natal Venus, 
7th house or the 7th lord in the birth chart, marriage 
will take place during such transit. 


In the given birth chart Lagna is Pisces and the 7th 

house is posited by the 7th lord Mercury, Mars and 
Venus. As there are connection among the 2nd lord , 
7th lord, and 1/th lord from the lagna, the native is 
destined for marriage. But Saturn is posited in the Sth 
house and aspects the 7th house, the 7th lord Mercury 
and marriage significator Venus. Further Mars in the 
7th house creates Bhauma dosha. Therefore, these 
disposition of planets indicate delay in marriage. 


Further 12th lord Saturn is in the 5th house and the 5th 
lord Moon is debilitated and in the trine of Saturn. Moon 
is related with 7th lord Mercury and Venus through 


Analysis of Marriage through Astrology 


Jupiter so there is a chance of love marriage. But due to 
influence of Saturn on Moon there may be delay in love 
marriage. 


Now let us examine the time of marriage of the native 
with the help of transits and dasa/antardasa of planets. 
During the transit in the month of July 2010, Saturn 
was passing over Kanya Rasi, the 7th house from lagna 
of the birth chart. It was also passing over the natal 
Venus, Mars and Mercury. This promises marriage. 
Further, during this period Jupiter was passing over 
lagna and aspected natal Venus, 7th lord Mercury This 
also promises marriage to the native. 

During this period dasa of Venus-Saturn-Rahu was 
running from 07-05-2010 to 27-10-2010. This dasa was 
favourable for marriage. 


The marriage of the native took place in the month of 
July 2010 at the age of about 34 years which may be 
called a delayed marriage. 


Case Study No 13. 


DOB: -08-08-1973; TOB: - 05-12 pm; POB: - Jabalpur Sex - M 


Chapter 6: Late Marriage 89 


Navamsa 


This is a horoscope of a person who is of 36 years, but 
still endeavours to marry a girl. 


The ascendant of the native is Sagittarius and the 
ascendant lord Jupiter is posited in the 2™ house being 
retrograde and debilitated. The 7° house from the 
ascendant is posited by Saturn and Ketu and aspected 
by Rahus from the ascendant. The 7 lord Mercury is 
posited in the 8 house and conjoined with Sun. It is 
also aspected by Mars and debilitated Jupiter. Therefore, 
the 7* house and the 7" lord from the ascendant, both 
are heavily afflicted. 


The 7” house from the natal Moon is aspected by the 8" 
lord debiliated Moon and debilitated Jupiter, and 
hemmed between three malefic planets, Mars on the 
one side and Saturn & Ketu on the other side. The 7” 
lord Venus is posited in the sign of enemy, aspected by 
Saturn and Rahu. Therefore, the 7th house and the 7" 
lord from Moon both are afflicted. 


The 7" house from the Sun is posited by debilitated 
Jupiter which is also retrograde and the 7 lord from 
the Sun is Saturn and is conjoined with Ketu and 
aspected by Rahu. So the 7 house and the 7* lord 
from the Sun both are afflicted. 


90 Analysis of Marriage through Astrology 


The 7 house from Venus does not receive any malefic 
aspect, but the 7" lord Saturn is conjoined with Ketu 
and aspected by Rahu. Therefore, the 7th lord from 
Venus is also afflicted. 


Thus from the above analysis it is found that that the 
7" houses and the 7" lords from the ascendant, Moon, 
Sun and Venus all are afflicted. 


Venus, the natural karaka planet of marriage, is also 
afflicted by aspect by Saturn and Rahu. 


In the navamsa chart, the 7th lord Mercury is posited in 
the 8" house, Venus in the 12" house from the navamsa 
Lagna.Therefore, the astrological study indicates that 
there will be delay in marriage. 


Case Study No 14 


DOB: -05-09-1977; TOB: - 05-02 pm; POB: - New Delhi Sex - F 
Birth Chart 


Chapter 6: Late Marriage 91 


This is a horoscope of a female who is still unmarried 
in spite of best efforts by her father. 


The ascendant is Capricorn and the ascendant lord is 
Saturn. The 7“ house from the ascendant is posited by 
Saturn and hemmed between two malefics Mars and 
the Sun. The 7* lord Moon is aspected by Rahu. So the 
7" house and the 7 lord are afflicted. 


The 7 house from Moon is hemmed between two 
malefics Rahu and Ketu and the 7" lord Mars from 
Moon is posited in the 2° house from Moon and 
conjoined with the 8" lord from Moon. So the 7" house 
and the 7 lord from Moon are also afflicted. The 7" 
house and the 7* lord from Sun are also afflicted. The 
7" house is aspected by Sun and hemmed between Ketu 
and Rahu. Also the 7 lord Saturn is hemmed between 
Mars and Sun. The 7 lord from Venus is also Saturn 
which is conjoined with Venus. Thus all the 7" houses 
and the 7" lords from the ascendant, Moon, Sun and 
Venus are afflicted. Besides, Venus, the natural karaka 
planet of marriage, is also afflicted. These factors indicate 
denial of marriage. 


In the navamsa chart the 7” lord Moon is posited in the 
navamsa of Mercury whose enemy is Moon. Venus is 
in the navamsa of Mars and posited in the 6” house 
from the navamsa Lagna. Therefore, considering all the 
facts mentioned above, it may be inferred that there is 
delay in marriage. At the time of judgment, the transit 
Saturn is passing through Capricorn and aspects the 
natal Venus posited in the 7" house and also aspect 
Moon who is the 7" lord. Therefore, as per astrological 
principles as mentioned above there is a strong chance 
of marriage of the native in this year i.e. in the year 
2009. In fact the marriage took place in the first week 
of November 2009 during the dasa/antar/pratyantar of 
Jup-Sat-Ven when natal Venus was aspected by Jupiter 
in transit. 


CHAPTER-7 
Divorce or Separation 


me discussed earlier, the 2" house signifies kutumba 
(relatives) and the 4" house signifies domestic peace 
and happiness. The 7" house rules the marriage and 
marriage partner. 11" house rules the success of marriage 
and married life and the 12" house indicates the bed- 
pleasure of married partners. All in combined strength 
of all the houses and their lords from the ascendant, 
Moon, Sun and Venus govern the marriage life in totality. 
Venus, the karaka planet of marriage, the above 
mentioned houses and their lords play an important role 
in marriage and the married life. 

When any of the above houses or lords thereof is afflicted, 
the unhappiness is likely to arise due to the causes ruled 
by that house or the afflicting planet. When the 7* lord 
is retrograde, the married life becomes unhappy due to 
the married partner. 


Venus is the natural karaka planet of the 7” house in a 
male horoscope and Mars is the natural karaka planet 
of the 7" house in a female horoscope. When the 7” 
house and their lords and karaka planets of marriage 
are weak and afflicted, conjoined with or aspected by 
malefic planets, they bring unhappiness in the married 
life. 


Chapter 7: Divorce or Separation 93 


When the lords of the ascendant and its 7™ house or 
lords of the Moon’s sign and the lord of the 7th from 
Moon or lord of the Rasi where karaka planet Venus is 
posited and lord of the 7" house from Venus are in 
mutual sastastak relation (6/8), a misunderstanding 
crops up between the couple leading to mistrust and 
quarrel. 

When in a horoscope, the lord of the Lagna, the Janma 
Rasi or Venus are in the 6" house or in the 8" house 
from the lords of the respective 7" houses from the 
lagna, Moon and venus and are mutual enemies or 
afflicted, it is likely that the husband and the wife will 
have constant quarrels and differences. The 6" house is 
the house of enmity and therefore, such a combination 
is responsible to create enmity between the native and 
his/her married partner. 

In such a horoscope. 

1. when the above planets are mutual enemies and 
either of them is afflicted by a malefic planet or 
lords of evil houses, there is every likelihood of 
separation between them. 

2. When both the planets are afflicted the separation 
is sure. 

3. If any one of them is aspected by or conjoined with 
Jupiter or is situated in a powerful benefic house, 
the separation may be adjusted and the couple may 
be re-united; otherwise, the chance of re-union is 
remote. 

4. When the 7” lord is in the 6th house being afflicted, 
there may also be separation. 

5. Similarly, when the 7" lord or the natural karaka 
planet of the 7” house conjoins with the 6" lord 
and is afflicted by the aspect of or conjunction with 
malefics, the result is separation between husband 
and wife. 

6. When a strong Jupiter makes a connection with the 
combination mentioned in serial no.5 above, the 
separation may be avoided but the husband and 


94 


10. 


13. 


Analysis of Marriage through Astrology 


wife will continue to quarrel themselves and will 
always have disagreements. 


. The 6 house also rules disputes and the connection 


of the malefic 6 lord with the 7" house, the 7th 
lord or Venus, may result into legal separation. 


. When the 7" lord or Venus is conjoined with the 


6" house or 6th lord and afflicted by a malefic 
planet, the result will be legal separation between 
the couple. 


. When Rahu and Saturn on join the ascendant, the 


native is likely to. face strife and separation in 
married life. 

When the 7™ lord is retrograde and is also afflicted, 
there will be separation. 


. When in a female horoscope, Aries or Scorpio is the 


ascendant and the 7 lord is weak, combust or 
defeated in planetary war and is also afflicted, she 
will be abandoned by her husband. 


. When the longitude of the ascendant in a female 


horoscope rises in the navamsa of Aries or Scorpio 
and the navamsa lord of the 7° Bhava Centre is 
weak, combust, defeated in planetary war and 
afflicted, the result will be separation or divorce. 
When the lords of the 2" and the 7 houses are in 
the nakshatra of evil lords, particularly in the 
nakshatra of the 6 lord and are afflicted, there will 
be separation or divorce or litigation between the 
couple. 


Case Study no 15 
DOB: -13-09-1963; TOB: - 11-00 pm; POB: - Sri Dungargarh Sex - M 


Birth 


Sat (R) 
Ketu Mars Merc (R) 
Ven 


Chart 


Chapter 7: Divorce or Separation 95 


Navamsa Chart 


This is the horoscope of a person who divorced his wife 
and remarried another woman. 


The ascendant of the native is Taurus and the ascendant 
lord Venus is debilitated in the 5“ house in the sign of 
Virgo. Venus is aspected by Jupiter, the lord of the sign 
of exaltation of Venus. Hence Venus gets neechbhang 
yoga (cancellation of blemish of being debilitated) 


The 7 house from the ascendant is hemmed between 
two malefic Mars and Ketu. The 7” lord Mars is situated 
in the 6" house in the sign of Venus and aspected by 
malefic Saturn and Rahu. Mars is also posited in the 
nakshatra of Swati whose lord is Rahu, a strong malefic. 
Therefore the 7 house and the 7" lord from the 
ascendant are heavily afflicted. 


The 7" house from Moon is occupied by the 7 lord 
Saturn which is aspected by the 12" lord Mars from the 
6'" house. Therefore; the 7 house and the 7" lord from 
the natal Moon are afflicted. 


The 7" house from the Sun falls in Aquarius which is 
aspected by Rahu. The 7" lord from Sun is Saturn and 
posited in the 6" house from the Sun and aspected by 
Mars. Saturn is also posited in the nakshatra of 
Dhanistha whose lord is malefic and afflicted Mars. 
The 7" house and the 7" lord from Venus, the natural 
karaka planet of marriage, are Pisces and Jupiter. Jupiter 
is retrograde and aspected by Saturn. 


96 Analysis of Marriage through Astrology 


Venus is hemmed between two malefic Mars and Sun 
and is debilitated and aspected by the 8 lord Jupiter 
which is also retrograde. 


Thus we see that all the 7” houses and the 7" lords 
from ascendant, Moon, Sun and Venus are afflicted. 
Therefore, all the facts mentioned above indicates the 
divorce between the couple. 


24 marriage is examined from the 9 house. The 9 
lord is posited in 9" house and aspected by the 7 lord 
Mars. Hence this creates a raja yoga (relation between 
lords of Kendra and Kona). This yoga confirms a 
marriage of the native. 


Case Study No 16 


DOB: -13-06-1982; TOB: - 00-50 am; POB: - Kolkata (Central) Sex - F 
Birth Chart 


Asc Ven Mere(R)} Rahu 
Sun 


Chapter 7: Divorce or Separation 97 


This is a horoscope of a female whose conjugal life is 
totally disturbed within one year of marriage. The native 
has moved a family court for redressal of grievances 
and for divorce. 


The ascendant of the native is Pisces and its lord Jupiter 
is retrograde and posited in the 8" house from the 
ascendant. The 7" house from the ascendant is occupied 
by Mars and retrograde Saturri which is the 12" lord. 
Both are strong malefic planets. The 7” lord Mercury is 
retrograde and conjoined with the 6" lord Sun in the 
3°* house. Mercury is a dual planet. Mercury is also 
posited in Rohini nakshatra of Moon and the Moon is 
posited in the 12™ house. Therefore, the 7” house and 
the 7 lord from the ascendant are heavily afflicted. 


The 7 house from Moon is hemmed between three 
malefic planets Rahu on one side and retrograde Saturn 
& Mars on the other. The 7* lord Sun is conjoined with 
dual and retrograde Mercury which is the 8th lord from 
Moon. Therefore, the 7“ house and the 7 lord from 
Moon are afflicted. 


The 7” house from the Sumi falls in Scorpio sign and 
aspected by malefic Saturn. The 7 lord from the Sun is 
Mars which is conjoined with retrograde Saturn. 
Therefore, both the 7" house and the 7" lord from the 
Sun are afflicted. 


The 7" house from Venus is posited by retrograde Jupiter 
and hemmed between malefic planets Mars, Saturn and 
Ketu and aspected by strong malefic and afflicted Rahu. 
The 7" lord Venus which is also the natural karaka 
planet of marriage, is situated in the sign of Mars and 
also aspected by Mars. 


Thus, all the 7" houses and the 7" lords from lagna, 
Moon, Sun and Venus are afflicted. The 2"? house and 


98 Analysis of Marriage through Astrology 


the 4™ house are also afflicted by aspects of Mars and 
Saturn respectively. And the 4th house is also occupied 
by Rahu. The 2™ house is occupied by the 8" lord Venus. 
The 2nd lord Mars is afflicted due to conjunction with 
Saturn. And the 4™ lord Mercury is retrograde and is 
conjoined with the Sun. 


In the navamsa chart the 2™ lord Saturn is in the 8% 
house from the navamsa lagna and Rahu is in the 4" 
house. 


Therefore, considering all the facts mentioned above, it 
appears that the native has neither domestic peace and 
happiness nor conjugal love. She is also not in harmony 
with family members of her in-laws. So she is in 
extremely mental agony and hence she has opted for 
separation from husband resulting in a court case. 
Relative court case is pending in a Learned family court. 


CHAPTER-8 
Marriage of Inter-caste, Inte-race 
and _ Inter-religion 


arriage between the two persons belonging to 

the same religion but of different caste is called 
inter-caste marriage. A marriage between a Brahmin 
and a Kayastha or between a Vaishya and a Shudra is 
called inter-caste marriage. 


Similarly marriage between two persons of different races 
are called inter-racial marriage. A marriage between a 
Bihari and a Maharastrian or between a Bengali and a 
Sikh is called inter-racial marriage. This type of marriage 
may be within the same or different religion. 


Marriage between two persons of different religion is 
called inter-religion marriage. A marriage between a 
Hindu and a Muslim or between a Hindu and a Christian 
is called inter-religion marriage. 


The 7th house, 7th lord and Venus represent wife in a 
male chart and the 7th house, the 7th lord and Mars 
represent husband in a female birth chart. The 2nd 
house and 2nd lord indicate relation. These houses and 
their lords should be judged from the lagna, Moon, Sun 
and Venus. 


100 Analysis of Marriage through Astrology 


If the 7th houses and the 7th lords and also 2nd houses 
and 2nd lords are afflicted by Saturn, Mars and Rahu, 
the native will marry a bride of different caste, creed 
and race. The intensity of affliction of the 2nd house 
and its lord indicates difference in the customs and 
manners. More the affliction more the difference in the 
customs and manners. 


The 9th house and the 5th house signify the religion 
and the customs of a native. If these houses and their 
lords and also jupiter the significator of religion and 
customs are afflicted along with 2nd house and 2nd 
lord, the native will not hesitate to give up his religion 
and marry a girl of different religion of different customs. 


Case Study No 17 


DOB:-20-05-1987; TOB: - 13-30 hrs; POB: - Rajnagar (Raj) Sex - Female 
Birth Chart 


Chart 
Sun, Sat 9 3 Ven, Ketu 
baal Rahu, Moon Merc 


Chapter 8: Marriage of Inter-caste, Inte-race and Inter-religion 01 


This is a female horoscope. Married a boy of different 
race against the wish of her parents. 

The 7th house from lagna is Aquarius and and _ its lord 
is Saturn, a natural malefic and retrograde. The 7th 
lord Saturn is aspected by Rahu. The 7th house and 7th 
lord Sun from Moon are aspected by Saturn. The 2nd 
house from lagna is posited by Ketu and aspected by 
Mars and Rahu . The 2nd lord Mercury is aspected by 
Saturn and hemmed between two malefics. The 2nd 
house from Moon is afflcted by Rahu and the 2nd lord 
Jupiter is conjoined with Rahu. Thus the 7th house and 
7th lord and the 2nd house and the 2nd lord from 
lagna and Moon are afflicted. Further, the 5th house is 
aspected by Mars and the 5th lord Jupiter is in the 8th 
house conjoined with Rahu.This indicates that the native 
will not care for her customs and manners and will not 
hesitate to give up them for marriage. 

In the horoscope the connection among the lords of 2nd, 
5th, 7th and |1th houses suggest that the native has 
fallen in love of a person belonging to a different race. 
The conjunction of 5th lord Jupiter with Rahu which 
aspect the lord has also aggravated the situation. 


Under the compelling circumstances she became 
adament to marry the boy and ultimsately she married 


against the will of her parents. 


Case Study no 18 


DOB :-01-03-1980 ; TOB :- 12-17 hrs; POB :- Siwan (Bihar) Sex-M 
Birth Chart 


102 Analysis of Marriage through Astrology 


Navamsa Chart 


This is a horoscope of a Brahmin boy mrried a Kayasth 
girl out of love affairs against the wish of his parents. 


In the given birth chart the lagna is Mithune and lagna 
lord Mercury is posited in the 9th house along with Sun 
and Ketu. The conjunction of lagna lord with Ketu 
makes the native an introvert. The 7th house is aspected 
by malefic Rahu and the 7th lord Jupiter is posited in 
the 3rd house and conjoined with malefic Rahu and 
Mars. Therefore, the 7th house and the 7th lord became 
afflicted. The 2nd house is aspected by Rahu and 2nd 
lord Moon is conjoined with Rahu and Mars. So the 
2nd house and 2nd lord both became afflicted. Venus, 
the natural significator of marriage, is aspected by Rahu 
and posited in the nakshatra of Ketu. The 2nd lord 
Moon and the 7th lord Jupiter are in the nakshatra of 
Ketu. Therefore, the 2nd house , 2nd lord , the 7th 
house , 7th lord and Venus all are afflicted. This 
indicates that the native will involve in a inter-caste 
marriage. 


Again the 5th lord Venus ia aspected by Rahu. This 
indicates that the native will not hesitate to give up his 
customs and manners for the sake of marriage with a 
girl belonging to a different caste. 


In the birth chart the 2nd lord Moon, the 7th lors 
Jupiter, the Sth lord Venus and the I|1th lord Mars are 


Chapter 8: Marriage of Inter-caste, Inte-race and Inter-religion 103 


connected to each other . This combination reveals that 
the native has a love affairs. 


The native is a highly qualified man. Although he is a 
Brahmin he married a highly qualified Kayastha 
woman in the first week of May 2008 during the dasa 
antardasa of 2nd lord Moon and 11th lord Mars. At 
the time of marriage, Jupiter , in transit, was aspecting 
natal Venus as wil as_ the 7th lord Jupiter. 


Analysis of the horoscope of the native confirmed that 
the native has destined to enter into an _ inter-caste 
wed-lock. 


CHAPTER-9 
Time of Marriage 


ee are several planetary combinations or conditions 
given in classical literatures or works on astrology 
for pin-pointing the time of marriage. Before pin-pointing 
the time of marriage, the natal chart must be examined 
to ascertain whether the native is destined to be married 
in life or not. If different planetary combinations suggest 
that the native has the destiny of being married then 
pin-pointing of time for marriage should be taken up 
according to the principles of predictive astrology. 


1. When Jupiter transits through a house wherefrom he 
may aspect the radical Venus or transits over the 7* 
house or the 7" lord or passes through the house where 
any of them is located, the negotiation of marriage will 
take place. If at that time no malefic planet aspects or 
joins the above houses and planets, the marriage of the 
native will be confirmed. 


2. If at the time of birth any malefic planet creates a 
relation with any of the houses or planets ruling the 
marriage, the influence of the same malefic planet while 
transiting over these houses or the planets will not hinder 
the marriage. Therefore, if any malefic planet aspects or 
transits through a house or over a planet which is also 
afflicted by the same planet in the natal chart and at 
the same time Jupiter also transits through any of them, 


Chapter 9: Time of Marriage 105 


one is likely to be married during such transit. But if 
any other malefic planet, in transit, also influences the 
marriage related houses or planets which has not 
influenced the marriage related houses or planets at birth, 
then marriage will not take place. 


3. When Jupiter in transit conjoins with or aspects the 
natal Venus or passes through the Kendra/Trine houses 
from the natal Venus or through the house where the 
7" lord is posited, one may be put into a wed-lock. 


4. While considering the time of marriage, an astrologer 
should note which planets are influencing the marriage 
karaka Venus, the 7th house, the 7 lord and other 
houses ruling the marriage in the birth chart. When 
these influencing planets make almost similar condition 
in transit connecting the houses and planets, the native 
has chance to marry during such transit. 


5. Vimsottari dasa Cycle is the most important and 
effective dasa system for examination of time for 
happening of an event ie. in present case marriage. 
Following dasa and antardasa under vimsottari dasa 
system, in order of priority, are required to be considered 
for pin-pointing of the time of marriage. 


i) Dasa/antardasa of Rahu provided Rahu is posited in 
Kendra, Kona or Upachaya houses. 

ii) Dasa/antardasa of Venus, the natural karaka planet 
of marriage. 

iii) Dasa/antardasa of the 7th lord either from ascendant 
or from Moon. 

iv) Dasa/antardasa of the ascendant lord because the 
ascendant is the 7* from the 7 house of ascendant. 
So according to. astrological dictum “Bhavat 
Bhavam” the ascendant lord also plays a role in 
fixing the time of marriage. 

v) Dasa/antardasa of the 10" lord from lagna. 


106 Analysis of Marriage through Astrology 


vi) Dasa/antardasa of the 7" lord from Venus. 

vii) Dasa/antardasa of the 8" lord from ascendant as 
well as from Moon. 

viii) Dasa/antardasa of planets posited in the 7" house 
from lagna and Moon. 

ix) Dasa/antardasa of planets posited in the ascendant. 

x) Dasa/antardasa of Ketu when it is posited in the 
ascendant or in the 7 house. Ketu is a strong 
malefic planet and has no relationship with 
solemnization of marriage, but when Ketu is posited 
in the ascendant or the 7” house, both houses are 
, auspicious, therefore its maleficness is reduced or 
destroyed and so becomes favourable for marriage. 
Potentiality of marriage in the birth chart and 
favourable vimsottari dasa period are not enough to 
pin-point the time of occurrence of marriage. The 
gochar chart with reference to a particular time is 
also required to be favourable and hence need to be 
considered. 


6. Under the prana dasa of Venus, the marriage of a 
native is solemnized i.e. bridegroom puts vermillion on 
the forehead of his bride under the prana dasa of Venus, 
because Venus is the natural karaka planet of marriage. 


7. While marriage is to happen under the dasa/antardasa 
of the above mentioned planets, the strength of the 
planets and the relative houses must be considered to 
arrive at a definite conclusion. The strongest of the 
planets becomes the karaka of marriage. 


8. Navamsa, saptamansa and turryamsa divisional charts 
are also examined for fixation of time of marriage. 


9. Besides the dasa/antardasa of the above planets, 
marriage takes place under dasa/ antardasa of the 
following planets. 


Chapter 9: Time of Marriage 107 


i) Dasa / antardasa of the navamsa lord of the 7th 
lord. 

ii) Dasa / antardasa of the lord of sign in which the 
7* lord is situated, 

iii) Dasa / antardasa of the strongest of Venus and 
Moon. 

iv) Dasa / antardasa of the 7" lord associated with 
Venus. 

v) Dasa / antardasa of the 2™ lord. 

vi) Dasa / antardasa of the navamsa lord of the 2" 
lord. 

vii) Dasa / antardasa of a planet conjoined with the 7” 
lord. 

viii)Dasa / antardasa of the 9th and the 10" lords 
provided earlier dasa / antardasa have not given 
any result. 


10. In the progressed or transit chart the positions of 
the following, planets in Kendra or Kona, according to 
priority give the time of marriage. 


(Jupiter, (ii) Venus Gii) Moon (iv) Mercury, provided 
these planets are not afflicted. If they are afflicted, they 
will not be taken into consideration for determining the 
time of marriage. 


11.The best position of Jupiter in transit is the ascendant, 
the 7* house, Kendra and Kona. The marriage will take 
place in the dasa / antardasa of the above planets. 


In addition to the above, marriage will take place 


i) When Venus or Jupiter is passing, in transit, over 
the ascendant Bhava Centre or the 7" Bhava Centre. 

ii) When Venus, Jupiter, or Rahu, in transit, passes over 
the resultant point of the sum of the longitudes of 
Venus and the 7" Bhava Centre. 


108 Analysis of Marriage through Astrology 


iit) When Rahu is passing over the resultant point of the 
sum of longitudes of ascendant and Sth Bhava 
Centre 
iv) When Jupiter, in transit, is passing over the resultant 
point of the sum of longitudes of — the ascendant 
and the 7" Bhava Centre 
v) When transit Rahu will pass over the point indicated 
by longitude of natal Venus, 
vi) When Venus, in transit, will aspect the ascendant 
or the 7* house. 
vii) When Jupiter, in transit, aspects the 4" house or 
the 5 house. 
viii) When transit Venus comes upon the natal Rahu 
who is posited in the lagna or the 7” house. 
ix) When transit Jupiter and Venus aspect each other 
either from the lagna and the 7” house or from the 
2" and the 8” house. 
x) When in transit Venus and Rahu are in the 11" 
house or the 5 house together. 
x1) When transit Rahu is crossing the natal Venus posited 
in the ascendant, the 5th house or the 7* house. 
xli) When Venus and Jupiter, in transit, are both together 
in the lagna or in the 7 house. 
xili)When transit Jupiter passes over the resultant point 
of the sum of longitudes of Moon and the 7® lord. 


12. Although there are several planets enumerated above 

as marriage causal planets in their dasa / antardasa, 

due consideration must be given to other factors which 

cause delay in marriage. They are enumerated below. 

(i) The aspect of Saturn on the 7” house or the 7" lord 
counted from the ascendant or Moon delays the 
marriage of the native. 

Gi) The aspect of Saturn on Venus, the natural karaka 
of marriage and the 7th house, also delays the 
marriage. 

(iii) The association or the aspect of lords of evil houses 
ie. lords of 6" house, 8" house or 12" house with or 


Chapter 9: Time of Marriage 109 


on the 7 house, the 7” lord or Venus may cause 
delay in marriage. 

(iv) Sometimes the position of Saturn in the 7” house or 
its association with the 7” lord or Venus causes delay 
in marriage provided it does not receive the aspect 
of a powerful benefic planet. 


Primary importance must be given to the natal position, 
vimsottari dasa cycle and strength of planets. The 
consideration of planets in transit is secondary. 


Case Study No 19 


DOB: -08-02-1950; TOB: - 07-20 am; FOB: - Howrah Sex - M 


Ven( R)} 1 
Jup,Sun_ 4 


General interpretation and evaluation of timing of 
marriage. 

Percentage of residential strength of planets.(Please refer 
to Astronomy and Mathematical Astrology of Deepak 
Kapoor). Mars-96.64%,Rahu-88.63 %,Venus- 
70.94%, Jupiter-63.78%, Sun-40.11%,Saturn-38.83%, 
Mercury-24.87%, Moon-0.23%. 


110 Analysis of Marriage through Astrology 


In the natal chart 2™, 7th and 11" lords from the 
ascendant are Jupiter, Sun and Moon respectively. Sun 
and Jupiter both are posited together in the 12 house, 
a house of bed pleasure. The ruling planets of marriage 
for the native are as follow. 


Ruling Planets 

. Venus, the natural karaka planet of marriage. 
Moon-the 7" lord from Venus. 

Mars-the navamsa lord of Venus. 

Venus-Navamsa lord of the 7 lord from Venus. 

. Sun-the 7 lord from the ascendant. 

6. Sun- the navamsa lord of the 7 lord from the 
ascendant. 

7. Sun-the navamsa lord of the 7" Bhava Centre. 


URNS 


The strongest among the above planets is Mars as per 
residential strength. So the ruling planet Mars is posited 
in Virgo sign in the nakshatra of Moon and in the 8" 
house, a house related with marriage. The 5 lord 
Mercury is posited in the sign of Jupiter and in the 
nakshatra of the Sun. The relation of Mercury with Sun 
and Jupiter is an indirect relation through nakshatra 
and rasi and hence a weak relation. The ascendant lord 
Saturn is retrograde and posited in the 7" house and in 
the nakshatra of Venus, a natural karaka planet of wife. 
Venus is also the lord of the 4" and the 9 houses. 

The above combination indicates that the native had 
good amount of probability of negotiated marriage with 
good degree of love between them. The marriage of the 
native was an arranged. marriage. They had good degree 
of conjugal love. The position of marriage karaka planet 
Sun and Jupiter in the 12" house and that of Mars, the 
ruling planet of marriage, in the 8" house do not appear 
to be good. Although the 8" and the 12" houses are 
related with marriage, but they are also evil houses 
(dusthana). It may, therefore, be interpreted that the life 
span of wife is not long. In fact the wife of the native 


Chapter 9: Time of Marriage 111 


expired on 31-12-1996 after begetting one son and two 
daughters. 


2. Time of solemnisation of marriage 
The 7" lord is Sun. The ascendant Lord Saturn is situated 


in the 7th house. Venus and Jupiter are connected/ 
conjoined with the 7" lord Sun. Marriage, therefore, 
might take place during dasa/antardasa of Saturn, Sun, 
Venus and Jupiter. The antardasa of Saturn in the 
mahadasa of Jupiter commenced from 06-01-1972 and 
ended on 20-07-1974. As Saturn and Jupiter are in the 
list of significators of marriage as mentioned above, the 
marriage of the native must take place during the period 
06-01-1972 to 20-07-1974. In the transit chart for 09-07- 
1973, Rahu is in the 11" house from the ascendant and 
in the 3°¢ house from the natal Moon. Rahu is the 
natural karaka of enjoyment and its position in gochar 
(transit) in Upchaya house is most favourable. So the 
marriage time as determined above is supported by the 
gochar chart also. Marriage, therefore, must take place 
in the month of July 1973 which falls between 06-01- 
1972 to 20-07-1974 In fact marriage of the native took 
place on the go July 1973.This confirms the astrological 
principles and combinations mentioned above in the 
matter of timing of solemnisation of marriage. 


Case Study No 20 


DOB: -21-04-1976; TOB: - 00-10 am; FOB: - Howrah Sex - M 
Birth 


Sun, Merc 


Jup, Ketu 


112 Analysis of Marriage through Astrology 


Chart 


Evaluation of time of marriage 

The lords of the 2nd, 7th and 11th houses are related to 
each other. The 2nd lord Saturn and 7th lord Moon 
mutually aspect each other and [1th lord Mars aspects 
the 7th lord Moon without connection with 5th lord 
Venus. So the native is destined for a negotiated marriage. 
Also there is an exchange of house between the 
ascendant lord Saturn and the 7" lord Moon. This 
indicates love and understanding between the couple.The 
ascendant lord Saturn aspects the 12% lord Jupiter, the 
8* lord Sun and the 9" lord Mercury from the 7 house. 
Rahu is posited in the sign of Libra which is the 7” 
house of the natural zodiac and aspects the above planets 
from the 10" house. Rahu also receives the benefic aspect 
of Jupiter. 

In the navamsa chart Rahu is posited in the navamsa of 
Jupiter and Jupiter is posited in the navamsa of the 7” 
lord Moon. Therefore, Moon, Saturn, Jupiter, Rahu, 
Mercury and Venus, become the significators of 
marriage. That is, marriage will be held in the dasa / 
antardasa / pratyantardasa of these planets. Mahadasa 
of Rahu commenced on 7" May 1997. Rahu is in the list 
of significators of marriage as mentioned above. 
Therefore, marriage of the native may take place during 
the mahadasa of Rahu, antardasa of Jupiter and 
pratyantardasa of Mercury. The Rahu-Jupiter-Mercury 
period commenced on the | October, 2000 and ended 
on the 3"? February 2001. Rahu, Jupiter and Mercury all 


Chapter 9: Time of Marriage 113 


are in the list of significators of marriage. During this 
period the marriage of the native may take place. 

In the transit chart for 30" November 2000, Sun and 
Mercury were in the 11™ house, Jupiter in the 5™ house, 
Rahu in the 6" house from both lagna as well as the 
natal Moon. And these positions of significators of 
marriage in the gochar or transit chart are most 
favourable and so support the marriage of the native. 
Therefore, the marriage of the native should take place 
during the above mentioned dasa cycle. In fact the 
marriage of the native was solemnized on the 30™ 
November 2000 which justifies our interpretation of the 
timing of marriage. 


Case Study No 21 
DOB: -12-11-1949; TOB: - 10-06 pm; POB: - Aligarh (UP.) Sex - F 


Birth Chart 
Asc 
Moon 


ES 
ES 
Sat 

Mars 


Navamsa Chart 


Jup : 


a ee 
bal 
Ven, Mars 
TTT 

In the given chart, the 7th lord Saturn is in the 2nd 
house, aspects 2nd lord Sun and conjoined with 5th 


lord Mars. The 11th lord Venus is in the trine of 7th 
lord Saturn and in the navamsa of 2nd lord Sun. This 


114 Analysis of Marriage through Astrology 


combination indicates that the native might have love 
marriage or there would be love in his conjugal life. 
Jupiter is in the 7th house and aspects Moon in the 
lagna and Ketu in a Upachaya house. Therefore, ruling 
planets of marriage are Saturn, Sun, Mars, Jupiter, Moon, 
Ketu and Venus. 

Therefore, marriage of the native may take place during 
the dasa/antardasa of Saturn, Sun, Mars, Jupiter, Moon 
Venus and Ketu. As we know Ketu is the most malefic 
planet and it does not give marriage during its dasa / 
antardasa, so it should not be taken into consideration 
for marriage if it is not posited in Kendra, Kona (trine) 
and Upachaya houses. In the given birth chart Ketu is 
posited in the 3"¢ house which is an Upachaya house 
and receives the benefic aspect of Jupiter. lts depositor 
Mercury is posited in Kendra. Further as Ketu is aspected 
by the most benefic planet Jupiter from the 7 house it 
reduces the maleficness of Ketu. Therefore, Ketu should 
be taken into consideration for marriage in the instant 
case. 

In the navamsa chart, Ketu is lying in the navamsa of 
the ascendant lord Moon So Ketu becomes powerful 
causal planet for marriage. 

The mahadasa of Ketu started on the 16 June 1969. 
On this date, the age of the native was about 20 years 
which is a marriageable age. The antardasa of Sun in 
the mahadasa of Ketu commenced on 16 January 1971 
and ended on 22™ May 1971. The marriage of the native 
took place on the 29 January 1971 which is in between 
the period of Ketu-Sun as mentioned above. The marriage 
held during the pratyantardasa of Moon in the period 
of Ketu-Sun. 

In the transit (gochar) chart for 29* January 1971, Jupiter 
and Venus were in the 5'* house, Moon in the 10° from 
the natal ascendant and Moon. These are the most 
favourable positions of transit for getting the result of 
marriage. Therefore, these factors support and justify 
the astrological principles for calculation of timing of 
marriage. 


CHAPTER-10 
Marriage in Horary Astrology 


i fe are many persons who do not have their own 
birth data but want to know about their marriages. 
In such cases our ancient Sages have devised a system 
called Horary Astrology. With the help of this branch of 
astrology an astrologer, when asked for about marriage, 
may advise the person accurately. Many questions 
regarding marriage can best be answered with the help 
of horary chart as compared to the birth chart. There 
may be varieties of queries relating to marriage. Parents 
want to know whether their children will marry with 
their consent and receive their blessings, whether they 
will marry within their caste/religion or outside, whether 
they will lead a happy married life, whether they will 
beget worthy children. Similarly lovers may ask whether 
their love affairs will end into a successful marriage. A 
querist may himself want to know about the prospect of 
his marriage. 


1. There are a number of methods to prepare a horary 
chart which is also called Prashna Kundali. The 
ascendant or Lagna and planetary positions are 
calculated for the date, time and place of query. The 
ascendant may also be calculated on the basis of a 
number pronounced by the querist between 1 to 108 
before an astrologer and the planetary positions for the 


116 Analysis of Marriage through Astrology 


date, time and place of pronouncement of the number. 
For details about preparation of horary chart, readers 
may refer to any standard book on horary astrology. 


2. Success in settling the marriage of child 

In Hindu Societies, Parents are often found tensed and 
worried about settling marriage of their children, 
especially female, because daughter's alliance is the 
foremost cause of anxiety in the minds of the parents. 
Therefore, the queries generally made by the parents to 
an astrologer to know whether they will be successful 
or not in finding a suitable match for their daughters or 
sons. 


A learned astrologer immediately cast a horoscope for 

the date, time and place of the query. The querist will 

be successful in his efforts if the following dispositions 

of planets are found in the horoscope. 

a) If the lords of the Lagna and the 7 house are posited 
together in a favourable house. 

b) If the Lagna Lord is posited in the 7* house or the 
7" lord is in the Lagna. 

c) If Venus, the natural marriage karaka, is placed in 
the Lagna or in the 7 house. 

d) If Venus and its dispositor are in the Upachaya house. 

e) If the Prashna Lagna is Shirshodaya 


3. Early marriage 

The concept of early marriage varies with the cultural 
background of the communities as well as change of 
time. Therefore, early marriage is a relative term which 
must be kept in mind while considering the early 
marriage. The following combinations cause early 
marriage. 


If in a horary horoscope, 
(a) Moon occupies the 7* house or the 24 house or 
Upachaya houses and is aspected by Jupiter. 


Chapter 10: Marriage in Horary Astrology 117 


(b) Moon is in 37, 5", 6", 7", or 11% houses and is 
aspected by Jupiter. 

(c) Benefics Jupiter, Venus, Mercury and Moon are in 
Kendras or Konas in the Prashna Chart malefics 
are in upachaya houses. 

(d) Lagna lord is in the 7 house or the 7" lord in the 
Lagna. 

(e) Powerful Moon and Venus are posited in an even 
sign or in an even navamsa, aspecting the Lagna. 

(f) Prashna Lagna is in a female drekkon. 

(g) Gemini, Virgo, Libra or Aquarius in the Lagna and 
Moon or Venus in the Lagna or in the 7" house. 

(h) Venus or Moon is in an auspicious house being 
exalted. 


4. Late or delayed marriage 

At the time of query if Moon is posited in the 7" or 2™ 
houses and aspected by malefic planets, there will be 
late or delayed marriage. 


If Moon is posited in the 1%, 4'", 5%, 8, 9" or 12" houses 
and is aspected by malefic planets, there will be late or 
delay in marriage. 


lf Saturn is posited in an odd sign or in the Lagna or 
the 7" house or, it will cause delay in marriage but if 
the odd sign or sign of the 7® or the Lagna is identical 
to its own or exaltation sign, there will be early marriage. 


5. Obstacles to marriage after fixation 

The 8 house is an evil house and the 8" lord is an evil 
planet. If they are associated with 7" house or 7” lord 
or Venus in a Prashna Chart and aspected by another 
malefic, there will be obstacles in solemnization of 
marriage after its fixation. 


Similarly if the 6" house is posited by a malefic or the 
6* lord is connected with the 7" house or the 7” lord 


118 Analysis of Marriage through Astrology 


or Venus, there will be obstacles in marriage due to 
disease, debt, dispute or misunderstanding. 


6. Success after marriage 

Often query is made whether the couple or family will 
prosper after marriage. To answer such query, one has 
to examine the horary chart as follows. 


(1) If the 7 lord and Venus are posited in the upachaya 
houses (, 6, 10, 11), it brings success in the lives of the 
couple after marriage. Although the 6” house is 
considered as an evil house but if the 7" lord and Venus 
are well- placed in the 6" house and receive benefic 
aspect without any malefic influence, the couple will 
definitely prosper after marriage. 


(2) Jupiter, karaka planet of prosperity, wealth and 
Santan (children) and the 5 lord are posited in the 
upachaya houses (3, 6, 10, 11) with benefic aspects and 
influences, the couple will prosper after birth of a child. 


CHAPTER-11 
Unmarried Persons 


e 27, 4, 7°) 11") and 12* houses rule marriage, 

married life and spouse. These houses from 
ascendant, Moon, and Venus should be considered for 
examination of a nativity for marriage, The 2", 4", 7*, 
11 and 12" houses of natural zodiac and these houses 
from the Sun also influence the marriage of a native. 
When these houses and their lords are weak and 
afflicted, one may be deprived of marriage or if, any 
how be married he/she will witness either unhappiness 
in married life or death of the spouse. 


Some combinations depriving of a person of marriage 
are given below. The result will vary according to the 
nature and qualities of the combing planets ie. whether 
they are strong or weak, benefic or malefic, well-placed 
or ill-placed etc Also the result will vary according to 
the planets conjoining or aspecting any of the 
combinations. The benefic will minimize the evil effects 
while the malefic will increase the same. 


Combinations 

1. If Venus and Moon being in one house are in 
opposition to Mars and Saturn, the chance of 
marriage is remote unless the 7" house is well 
developed and protected. 


120 


Analysis of Marriage through Astrology 


. If the 7" house is in a sign owned by a malefic 


planet and if a malefic planet aspects or joins the 
same one, the native may be deprived of marriage. 
But if any benefic planet joins or aspects the same, 
the result may vary. 


If the 7” house is a house owned by a malefic and 
if waning or afflicted Moon be there along with a 
malefic, one may be deprived of marriage. 


. If the 12 house is a house owned by a malefic 


planet and if waning or afflicted Moon be there 
along with a malefic, the result is likely to be similar. 


. If Venus and Mercury join the 7” house being 


afflicted by other planets and are neither conjoined 
with nor aspected by any other benefic planet, they 
may deprive a native of marriage. 


. If Rahu is in 7th house and is either aspected by or 


conjoined with at least two malefic planets, one may 
not marry. 


. If heavily afflicted Rahu joins the 9° house, the 


result may be the same. 


When afflicted Moon and Saturn join the 7” house 
without benefic influence, a similar result is likely to 
take place. 


. If all the malefic planets join ascendant, 7” house 


and 12 house and the waning Moon joins the 5" 
house, one will be wifeless. 


. If Venus and Moon join the 7” house and are 


aspected by Saturn and Mars and also if the 7* 
house is neither aspected by nor conjoined with 
Jupiter, they are likely to deprive a native of 
marriage. 


Chapter 11: Unmarried Persons 121 


Case_ Study no 22. 
DOB: -16-02-1964; TOB: -12-05 hrs; POB: - Sri Dungargarh Sex - M 


Birth Chart 
Jup, Ven Asc Rahu ™ Raha Vv 
Moon = 2 
Asc Jup, Ven 


by Rahu and is in the trine of Mars and Saturn and the 
2nd lord Mercury is hemmed between natural malefic 
Saturn and Ketu. This is not a favourable condition for 
creation of a new relation. Thus it appears that the 
native is not destined for marriage because his birth 
chart does not promise it. The lords of the 2nd, 7th and 
11th houses are not connected. The 7th house and 7th 
lord Mars are afflicted by Saturn by way of conjunction 
and aspect respectively. The 7th lord Mars is also deeply 
combust and hence becomes weak. The 4th house is 


122 Analysis of Marriage through Astrology 


aspected by Saturn and Mars and the 4th lord is in 
conjunction with Mars and Saturn. Moon is waning ie. 
weak. The 12th house is aspected by Saturn.These 
dispositions of planets indicate that there is no conjugal 
love, peace and happiness in the life of the native. 


The 7th house from Moon and Venus is aspected by 6th 
lord Venus, the 12th lord Mars and the 8th lord Jupiter. 
So the 7th house is badly afflicted. The 7th lord Mercury 
is hemmed between two malefics Ketu and Saturn. So 
Mercury is also become afflicted. This disposition is, 
therefore, not favourable for marriage. 


Venus and Moon, in the IIth house, are hemmed 
between malefics Rahu on one side and Mars, Sun and 
Saturn on the other and conjoined with 8th lord Jupiter. 
This disposition deprives the native of marriage. 


Venus is exalted and in the nakshtra of Saturn which is 
conjoined with 7th/12th lord Mars and 4th lord Sun. 
This combination of Mars, Saturn and Sun is aspected 
by Rahu from the 2nd house.This indicates that the 
native has extremes sex desire and to fulfil his desire he 
maintain a relation with a rich lady who is marriaed 
and older than him. 


Thus we find that the ruling planets and houses relating 
to marriage and partner are heavily afflicted and checked 
by malefic planets suggesting deprivation of marriage 
but at the same time strong Venus in the 11th house 
with |lth lord Jupiter and Moon and aspect of strong 
Rahu on the 7th and 12th lord Mars with the influence 
of Saturn suggest that the native has a relation with a 
rich and marriaed lady. 

Various planetary positions and _ astrological 
combinations have been given in the above chapters in 
respect of probability of marriage, late marriage, divorce 
and seperation, unmarried people, time of marriage. 


Chapter 11: Unmarried Persons 123 


Keeping all the points mentioned in the foregoing 
chapters all the 22 cases have been studied in details 
with the help the natal charts, navamsa chart, and transit 
chart and vimsottari dasa cycle. It is found that all the 
principles mentioned in the foregoing chapters have been 
justified with the results of the study of all the 
horoscopes. 


Interestingly, Ketu is regarded as the most malefic planet 
who does not help give marriage to a native i.e. marriage 
can not take place in the dasa/antardasa of Ketu 
provided it is not connected with Kendra, Kona and 
Upachaya houses. In the case Study No 21 it is found 
that Ketu is in the 3? house, an Upachaya house. In 
the navamsa chart, Ketu is posited in the navamsa of 
lagna lord. Therefore, Ketu becomes connected with 
Kendra, Kona and Upachaya houses because lagna is 
regarded as Kendra and Kona both and the 3** house 
is an_Upachaya house. Therefore, marriage of the native 
took place in the mahadasa of Ketu. Thus it corroborates 
the principles given in respect of Ketu. Rahu is another 
malefic planet but it is the first rate marriage karaka 
planet, because Rahu is the most materialistic planet. 
That is why it is on the top of the list of marriage 
karaka planets. 


Similarly other facts/ principles in respect of marriage 
have been corroborated by the findings of the Case Study 
of various horoscopes. 


Thus we see that the combinations and principles 
mentioned in the previous chapters on marriage and 
other related topics have been correctly and fully justified 
and therefore they may be freely and confidently 
employed in the analysis of data and evaluation of the 
result of horoscope or nativity of a native. 


CHAPTER-12 
Combinations for Wealth and Penury 


A.Combinations of wealth 
Wealth has most important, place in the life of a, person. 
Wealth has capacity to fulfir all kinds of his desires. In 
ancient period when our saints and sages used to preach 
renunciation, emancipation and liberation, even then 
importance of wealth did not diminish. During that 
period also people were running after wealths and 
properties. The importance of wealth attracted the 
attention of our ancient astrologers and therefore they 
did much research work on the combinations for wealth. 
Varahamihira, in the 10th chapter of his renouned 
book " Brihajjatakam" has dealt with Karmajeeva and 
profession comprehensively. He has given importance 
to the lord of Navamsa occupied by lord of 10th house 
from Lagna, Moon and the Sun and ascribe the 
acquisition of wealth to such methods or processes which 
are controlled by that planet. Bhagawan Garga supports 
the view of Varahamihira distinctly. The great Sage 
Parasara, the founder of modern astrology, had dealt 
with wealth in the chapter 43 of his great work “Brihat 
Parasara Hora Shastra". In the 44th chapter, he has 
mentoned special combinations for penury. 


Special Yogas for wealth as narrated by Parasara. 
1. If Venus is posited in the 5th house in her own 
sign (Taurus and Libra) while Mars is in the 1lth 
house, the native will be extremewly wealthy. 


Chapter 12: Combinations for Wealth and Penury 125 


This Yoga is possible for two ascendant Gemini and 
Capricorn. For the Capricorn ascendant Venus being 
Kendra as well as Kona lord will be situated in her 
own sign of 5th house and will become a very auspicious 
yoga karaka. Mars, being 4th and 11th lord, in 11th 
house will be in his own sign and aspects Venus. This 
disposition creates an extremely auspicious yoga. The 
native will get income through sales and purchases of 
immovable propertits, building construction, civil 
contractorship. The native may become a civil engineer, 
chartered accountant, economist. 


2. lf Mercury is posited in the 5th house in its own 
sign(Gemini & Virgo) and Moon, Mars and Jupiter 
are in the 11th house, the native will be much wealthy. 
This yoga is possible for two ascendants, Taurus and 
Aquarius. In Taurus ascendant Jupiter is 11th lord and 
posited in the Ilth and aspect 2nd and Sth lord 
Marcury. 2nd and 1lth houses are related with wealth. 
Further Moon and Jupiter are lord of Upachaya houses 
( 3rd and 11th ). This increases the income of the native. 
Mars is lord of 12th and 7th houses. This indicates that 
the native will earn money through foreign trades, some 
agency, hide industry and may be inventor or owner of 
mine. 

In the Aquarius ascendant Jupiter will become very 
important as he will alone become the lord of wealth 
and gain (2nd and_11th lord). He is already a natural 
benefic. Therefore, his aspect and position will certainly 
give wealth and property. The position of Mars will 
make him vigorous in action. Jupiter, Moon and Mars 
are lords of Upachaya houses (11th, 6th and 3rd). These 
planets have got the lordships of four upachaya houses 
(3,6,10 and 11). Therefore, their relations or influences 
will make the native extremely wealthy. 


3. lf the Sun is posited in the 5th house in his own 
sign (Leo) and Saturn, Moon and Jupiter are posited 
in the 11th house, the native will be wealthy. 


126 Analysis of Marriage through Astrology 


This yoga is applicable for Aries ascendant whose lord 
is Mars. In this yoga there is relation between the Kona 
lord ( Sun and‘Jupiter) and Kendra lord ( Saturn and 
Moon). Saturn is also lord of an upachaya house (1 Ith). 
Therefore, this yoga make the native much wealthy. 


4 lf Saturn is posited in the 5th house in his own sign 
(Aquarius and Capricorn) and the Sun and Moon are 
in the 11th house, the native will be wealthy. 

This is possible for Virgo and Libra ascendants. If the 
ascendant is’ Virgo, Saturn will aspect the Sun and 
Moon from the 5th house. This will make a weak 
Rajayoga. But if the ascendant is Libra, Saturn in Sth 
house will make relation with 10th lord Moon and this 
will be a very important and auspicious Rajayoga 
The !1th lord Sun will conjoin with this yoga and will 
give excellant results with respect to wealth because he 
is posited in his own sign and also lord of upachaya 
house. This Yoga will certainly help the native to become 
extremely affluent person, but the Rajayoga will remain 
ordinary because the 10th lord Moon will become malefic 
due to conjunction with the Sun. 


5. If Jupiter is posited in the 5th house in his own 
sign( Sagittarius and Piscies) and Mercury is posited 
in the 11th house, the native will be extremely 
wealthy. 

This yoga is possible for two ascendants Leo and Scorpio. 
In Leo ascendant Jupiter is posited in the 5th house in 
his Mooltrikona house and Mercury is lord of 2nd and 
{1th house posited in his own sign (Gemini) in the | 1th 
house and aspected by Jupiter. 

For Scorpio ascendant, Jupiter is posited in Pisces in the 
5th house and will become lord of the wealth (2nd house) 
and Mercury will be posited in its Moolatrikona sign 
(Virgo) and will be strong in respect of wealth. Thus we 
observe that there are similarity in both the ascendant 
which will give strength to the yoga regarding wealth. 


Chapter 12: Combinations for Wealth and Penury 127 


The important point should be noted that Saturn for 
both the ascendants either Jupiter or Mercury will be in 
their Moolatrikona signs and also lords of wealth and 
gains. Further they are fixed significators of wealth. 
Therefore, the native will definately be extremely 
wealthy. 


6. If Mars is positedin the 5th house in his own sign 
(Aries and Scorpio) and Venus will be p[osited in the 
11th house, the native will be an extremely wealthy 
person. 

This yoga will be formed in the Cancer and Sagittarius 
ascendants. For Cancer ascendant Mars is lord of 5th 
and 10th house. Hence it becomes Rajayoga karak planet. 
Mars will be powerful in the 5th house in own sign and 
aspects 11th lord Venus in 11th house. Further Mars as 
10th lord makes aspect relation with 4th lord Venus. 
Therefore, this combination will help native to earn 
fabulous wealth through sales and purchases of land 
and building, construction works, promotorship and 
automobiles etc. For Sagittarius ascendant, Mars will be 
lord of 5th and [2th house. Venus will be lord of 
Upachaya houses (llth and 6th).Therefore, the native 
will earn wealth by selling medicines, chemicals. He may 
become dealer in foreign trade and advocate of Income 
Tax. 


7.1f Moon is posited in the 5th house in her own sign 
(Cancer) and Saturn is posited in the 11th house, the 
native will be a wealthy person. 

This yoga is possible only for the Pisces ascendant. Moon 
is powerful in her own sign in the 5th house and Saturn 
is lord of 11th and 12th house. There is aspect relation 
between Moon and Saturn. Therefore, the native will 
earn much wealth through foreign trade, purchase and 
sale of shares, speculation and may serve in the 
department of education. 


128 Analysis of Marriage through Astrology 


8. If the Sun is posited in the ascendant in his own 
sign (Leo) and aspected or conjoined with Jupiter and 
Mars, the native will be endowed with wealth. 

In the Leo ascendant, the Sun, Mars and Jupiter are 
Yogakarak planets. The influences of these yogakarak 
planets on the ascendant will be extremely auspicious 
and therefore, the native will definately be a wealthy 
person. 


B. Combinations for Penury as narrated by Parasara 
1. If the ascendant lord is in the 12th and the 12th 
lord in the ascendant and aspected by or conjoined 
with Maraka lord (2nd and 7th lord), the native 
will be poor. It has been found that this yoga has 
adverse effect on the health of the native.The native 
will suffer from mental pain due to quarrel with his 
wife 

2. If the ascendant lord is posited in the 6th house and 
the 6th lord in the ascendant and is in conjunction 
with or aspected by Marakesh, the native will be 
devoid of wealth, 

3. If the ascendant lord or Moon is posited in the 8th 
house and is conjoined with Ketu and aspected by 
or conjoined with 2nd or 7th lord, the natuive will 
be penniless. 

4. If the ascendant lord conjoined with a malefic is 
posited in either 6th or 8th or 12th house and the 
lord of the 2nd house is either debilitated or posited 
in his enemy's sign, the native even if royal birth 
will be penurious. 

5. If the ascendant lord is in conjunction with alord of 
an evil house(6,8,12) and is devoid of aspect of a 
benefic planet, the native will be poor. 

6.1f the ascendant lord and its Navamsa lord both have 
posited in the evil houses and are conjoined with or 
aspected by lord of 2nd or 7th house (Markesh), the 
native will be penniless. 


CHAPTER-13 
Female Horoscope 


anma Rashi—the sign in which the Moon is posited 
at the time of birth is called Janma Rashi. 

Janma Nakshatra—the nakshatra in which Moon is 

posited in at the time of birth is called Janma Nakshatra. 


A. The results of Moon in the twelve Rashis of Zodiac 

1. The Moon in Aries—a woman born’ with Moon in 
Aries will be beautiful, shameless, and skilled in 
work. She will be loved by her husband and her 
elders. 


2.The Moon in Taurus—a woman born with Moon in 
the sign of Taurus will be conscientious, fond of 
learning and attached to study of Shastra; she will 
have many sons and grandsons, will go on 
pilgrimage and will be loved by her husband for 
accumulation of wealth. 


3. The Moon in Gemini—the woman will be beautiful 
and of good nature and her appearance will be joy- 
inspiring. She will acquire vast wealth and honour 
and will be very learned; will interest herself in the 
welfare of others and will have beautiful eyes. 


130 


10. 


Analysis of Marriage through Astrology 


. The Moon in Cancer——The woman will be sickly; 


she will be loved by her friends and relatives; will 
subdue her enemies and will greatly revere Gods 
and Brahmins. 


. The Moon in Leo—-This position of Moon gives the 


woman physical strength, ability, superiority and 
fondness of eating fish and meat. She will be noble, 
fortunate, and beautiful and will be adorned with 
diamonds and gems studded jewelries. 


. The Moon in Virgo—A woman born with Moon 


in this sign will have various sorts of properties; 
will be devoted to her husband, pure and 
forgiving nature; she will subdue her enemies. 


. The Moon in Libra—The native of Libra sign will 


perform many religious ceremonies; will be 
beneficent towards her friends and relatives; she will 
be chaste and free from vanity and lust; will have 
a charming appearance and be blessed with sons. 


. The Moon in Scorpio—the woman born with Moon 


in Scorpio at the time of birth will be addicted to 
vice in secret; she will be wealthy and free from 
self-esteem; will be fond of religious ceremonies and 
will be loved by her elders and superiors. 


. The Moon in Sagittarius — a woman born with Moon 


in Sagittarius will perform many religious rites; will 
be charitable, affectionate and fond of music, 
benevolent, modest, and interested in learning 
Shastras. She will have many daughters.. 


The Moon in Capricorn— this lunar position gives 
the woman large teeth, spirit, charming appearance, 
learning, truthfulness, beauty and self control. She 
will observe the rules of morality and subdue her 
enemies. 


Chapter 13: Female Horoscope 131 


11. The Moon in Aquarius—A woman born with Moon 
in Aquarius will have a face as beautiful as the 
Moon; will be charitable and will spend money for 
religious purposes ; will be benevolent, proud and 
blessed with wealth and sons. 


12. The Moon in Pisces—This position of Moon will 
give the native sons; she will be devoted to religious 
practices, self control, and ability in all sorts of 
handicraft business, modest but of proud nature. 
She will have charming appearance. 


B. Rising sign or Ascendant (Lagna) 

1. Aries—A woman born under this ascendant will be 
truthful, cruel and angry; will have phlegm 
predominant in her body system; will be fond of 
her relatives and her words will be harsh. 


2.Taurus-—-the woman of Taurus ascendant will be 
modest, able in all sorts of handicraft business, 
attached to her own relatives. She will have 
charming appearance and will be loved by her 
husband. She will be obedient and devoted to her 
husband. 


3. Gemini—The native of this sign will be sensualist, 
devoid of merits, cruel and extravagant; phlegm and 
wind will be predominant in her body system and 
her words will be rough. 


4. Cancer—If, at birth, the ascendant be Cancer, the 
woman will be beautiful, accomplished, fond of 
relatives, of good nature, skilled in works and 
glorious. She will be blessed with wealth and enjoy 
domestic peace and happiness. 


5. Leo—a woman of this Lagna will be quarrelsome, 
hot-tempered and phlegmatic but beneficent. She 
will be non-vegetarian. 


132 


6. 


Analysis of Marriage through Astrology 


Virgo—The native of this Lagna will be fortunate 
and skilled in handicraft business; will have good 
friends and relatives; will be of religious minded 
and have power of self control. She will also do 
good to others. 


7. Libra —a woman born in this sign will be very proud, 


10. 


unforgiving, dilatory and thirsty. She will have 
misdirected intelligence will not be disposed to love 
and will not observe the rules of morality. 


. Scorpio—If the birth ascendant of the native be 


Scorpio, the woman will have elegant body and 
charming appearance. She will be pious, truthful, 
accomplished and devoted to her husband. 


. Sagittarius—If, at the time of birth of a woman, the 


ascendant be Sagittarius, she will be intelligent, 
follows the example of male persons, is satisfied only 
by sweet words, will have cruel nature and 
unaffectionate heart and will not be disposed to love. 


Capricorn —If the ascendant, at birth, be Capricorn, 
the woman will be very fortunate, devoted to her 
husband, fond of going on pilgrimage, capable of 
subduing her enemies and glorious. She will be 
blessed with sons. 


. Aquarius—A woman born under this sign will be 


pious, extravagant and ungrateful and will give birth 
to many daughters; she will always be disobedient 
to her superiors and elders. 


. Pisces—The subject of this ascendant will be blessed 


with many sons and grandsons; she loves her 
husband from the core of her heart and is respected 
by all; she will have charming eyes and hairs, will 
revere Gods and Brahmins and observe the rules of 
morality. She will have regards for her elders and 
superiors. 


Chapter 13: Female Horoscope 133 


C. Some important Combinations in respect of houses 

Ascendant- 

1. If Mercury, Venus and other benefic planets are 
posited in the birth ascendant of a woman, she will 
be beautiful, fortunate, of pure character, happy, 
blessed with good dresses and ornaments and will 
be well versed in handicraft business. On the other 
hand if malefic are posited in the birth Lagna, the 
results will be just reverse. 

2. If the ascendant be occupied by two benefics along 
with a malefic planet and if the sign of the 
ascendant be the sign of enemy of either of the 
benefic planets, the woman will be widow and 
sonless. 

3. If the birth ascendant be occupied by Venus, and 
Moon, the woman will be envious and happy. If it 
be occupied by Mercury and Moon, she will be 
happy, accomplished and modest and will be verse 
in music and handicraft business. 

4. If the ascendant be occupied by Venus and Mercury, 
the woman will be beautiful, fortunate and expert 
in computer. If it be occupied by benefics, she will 
be happy and acquire good dresses and various sorts 
of articles. Malefic planets in the ascendant will give 
reverse results. 

5. If the ascendant be occupied by Moon, Venus and 
Mercury, the woman will be extremely happy and 
prosperous. 

6. If the ascendant be Aries, Scorpio, Capricorn and 
Aquarius and be occupied by either Moon or Venus 
and aspected by malefic planets, the woman will 
lead an immoral life. 

7. If the Sun or Moon or Mars or Saturn be the lord 
of the ascendant and if Venus and Saturn occupy 
it, the 5 house is either occupied or aspected by 
malefic planets, the woman will be barren. 

8. If the ascendant of a woman falls in the sign of 
Mercury and is occupied by Moon and Venus, the 


134 Analysis of Marriage through Astrology 


native will be obstinate. She will dislike her husband 
but lead a comfortable life. 

9. If the ascendant is occupied by a malefic planet in 
his own sign or exaltation sign, the native will get 
beneficial effects/results. 

10. If the Sun be in the ascendant, the native will be 
short lived; if Mars occupies it, the woman will be 
widow; in case of Rahu's occupation, her child will 
die; if Saturn occupies it, she will be poor; if Moon, 
Jupiter and Venus occupy it, the lady will be chaste; 
if Mercury occupies it, she will enjoy long life. 

11. lf the ascendant be Cancer, Sagittarius or Pisces and 
be occupied by malefic planets, the woman will 
suffer from grief through her husband etc. 

12. If Jupiter occupies the ascendant, the woman will be 
happy and enormously rich. 

13. If the new Moon occupies the ascendant, the woman 
will be immodest and will become a widow. She 
will also go through several misfortunes. 


D. 2"! house from the Ascendant— cos 
If the 2" house from the ascendant be occupied be the 
Sun, Saturn, Rahu or Mars, the woman will suffer 
various sorts of miseries. If the 2"* house be occupied by 
Jupiter, Venus or Mercury, she will be blessed with 
wealth and sons and will never become a widow. Moon 
in 2™ house gives the native many daughters. 


E. 5" house from the ascendant — 

1. If the Sun and Mars occupy the 5™ house, the 
woman loses all her children; if Mercury Jupiter and 
Venus occupy it, she will be blessed with many 
children; if Rahu occupies it she will dies; if Saturn 
occupies it, she will be sickly and if Moon and the 
Sun occupy it, her children will die shortly after 
birth. 

2. If the 8 house from the 5" house be occupied by a 
malefic, the woman will be barren; and if it be 


Chapter 13: Female Horoscope 135 


occupied or aspected by any benefic, her child, if 
born, will not survive. 

3. If any of the malefic planets occupies 5™ house, the 
children of the native will suffer from troubles and 
distresses which may even cause death. If the 5™ 
house is owned by the occupied planet or it is house 
of exaltation of the planet, the native will be 
beautiful and have long lived sons. 

4. If the lord of the 5 house is weak, ill-placed or 
conjoined with or aspected by a malefic, the woman 
may lose her son or she may not get pleasure from 
the son. 

5. If Saturn occupies the ascendant, Rahu is in 5" 
from Saturn, Mars is posited in 5" from Rahu, the 
native will suffer from grief due to death of her 
son. 

6. If the 5 house is aspected by Moon or Venus, the 
woman will not beget male child. 

7. If the 5 house is occupied by the Sun, the native 
. will beget one son; if it be occupied by Mars, she 
will have three sons; if it be occupied by Jupiter, 
she will have five sons. 

8. The natal Moon in 5™ house will give two daughters 
while Mercury in 5" will give four daughters and 
Venus in it give many daughters. 

9. If, at birth, the ascendant be Virgo or Scorpio or 
Taurus or Leo, the native will have very few 
children; but if the 5* house be occupied or aspected 
by benefics, she will have many children. 

10. If Jupiter or Venus be posited in the 8" house from 
the ascendant or Moon. The child of the native will 
die soon after birth; but if the 8 house be occupied 
by Saturn, the woman will have abortion. 

11. If the 5™ house be occupied by Mars and aspected 
by Saturn, the woman will have abortion or the 
child may die in her womb. 

12. If the 5" house be occupied by Jupiter or Venus, the 
woman will have many sons; she will be fortunate, 


136 


13. 


14. 


15. 


ee 


Analysis of Marriage through Astrology 


accomplished and virtuous and will be loved by her 
husband. 

If the ascendant is occupied by both malefics and 
benefics and the 24 house be occupied by benefics, 
the woman will die before her husband. 

If natal Moon is hemmed between The Sun and 
Mars, the children of the native will not live long. 
If Mars occupies the5th or 12" house which is not 
his own or exaltation sign, children of the native 
will not survive . 


The 7" house from the ascendant. 


. If the 7" house of the woman is occupied by the 


Sun, the husband of the woman will be short lived 
and will suffer from blood diseases. 


. If full Moon occupies the 7 house her husband will 


be learned and liberal. 


. If the 7” house be occupied by Mars, her husband 


will be modest, emaciated, fair and short-lived. 


. If it be occupied by Mercury, her husband will be 


walthy. 


. lf the 7° house be occupied by Jupiter, the colour of 


the woman will be yellowish, will have self-esteem 
in youth, will be glorious, will enjoy long life, and 
her husband will be beautiful, glorious and fortunate. 


. If the 7" house be posited by Venus, her husband 


will hail from a respectable family, wealthy, beautiful 
and a poet but will suffer from eye diseases. 


If the 7" house be occupied by Saturn, her husband 


will be aged, or looking older than his age, strong, 
black and addicted to secret vices, but Rahu in 7" 
house makes her husband cruel, insincere, mean 
minded and _ black. 


_ If the 7" house is occupied by Venus, the woman 


will be rejected by her husband; if it be occupied by 
Mars, she will become widow in her early life; if 
the house is occupied by Saturn and aspected by a 
malefic, she will be decrepit or debilitated in youth. 


Chapter _13: Female Horoscope 137 


8.1£ the 7” house is occupied by two malefic, the woman 
will be lascivious and disgraceful to her family; if it 
be occupied by three malefic she may become a 
prostitute and may kill her husband. 

9. If the 7" house is posited by two benefics, the woman 
will be noble and glorious; if it is occupied by three 
benefic planets, she will be beloved wife of a wealth 
man or man of authority. 

10. If the 7" house from the ascendant or Moon is weak 
or not occupied or aspected by benefic planets, the 
husband of the woman will be coward. 

11. If the 7" house be occupied by Mercury or Saturn, 
the husband of the woman will be impotent; if it be 
occupied by the Sun, she will be rejected by her 
husband; if it be occupied by Mars, she will become 
widow in her early life; if it be occupied by Saturn, 
she will have late marriage or will remain unmarried. 

12. If the 7" house be occupied by both malefics and 
benefics, the woman may get married twice or she 
will reject her husband and accept another husband; 
if it is weak and occupied by malefic and aspected 
by benefic, she will also be rejected by her husband; 
and if it be occupied by a weak malefic planet 
conjoined with a inimical planet without any benefic 
influence, the woman will be devoid of merits and 
qualifications. 

13. If Venus and Mars are posited in the navamsa of 
each other, the woman will be attached with persons 
other than her husband; if the 7" house is occupied 
by Venus, Mars and Moon, she will lead an immoral 
life with the consent of her husband. 

14. If the 7 house is occupied by malefic planets and 
the 9" house is occupied by any planet, the woman 
will become an ascetic i.e., she will remain free from 
worldly affairs according to the significations of the 
planet in the 9" house. 

15. If the 7" house be occupied by Venus and Moon, 
the woman will become wife of an old man; and if 


138 


18. 


G. 
Li 


Analysis of Marriage through Astrology 


the ascendant be either Scorpio or Capricorn or 
Aquarius or Aries and is either occupied by Venus 
or Moon, she will become a prostitute. 


. lf the 7" house be occupied by Saturn and aspected 


by an enemy, the woman will lead an immoral life 
even in her old age. 


If the lord of 7 house be a weak malefic planet, the 


woman will be rejected by her husband; if it will 
occupy an inimical sign, she will hate her husband. 
If Jupiter will be lord of the 7" house, the woman 
will have an accomplished husband; if the Sun will 
be 7 lord, she will have good matured husband; if 
Venus will be its lord, her husband will be very 
beautiful; and if Mercurv will be lord of the 7 
house, her husband will be an educated person. 


8th house from ascendant 

If, at birth, the 8 house is occupied by Jupiter or 
Mercury or Moon or Venus or Rahu, the woman will 
remain separated from her husband or she will die; 
if it be occupied by the Sun or Mars, she will become 
a widow; and if it be occupied Saturn without any 
malefic influence, she will be wealthy and will be 
loved by her husband. 


_ \f the 8 house be occupied by malefic and the 2™ 


house is occupied by a benefic, the woman die in the 
dasa/antardasa of a planet in whose navamsa the 8" 


.lord is posited. 


. lf the 8" house is occupied by a malefic, the woman 


will be widow, but if the 8" lord is posited in the 
navamsa of a planet then she will die in the dasa of 
the planet. 


_ If the ascendant or 4" house or 7" house or 8" house 


or 12" house is occupied by Mars, the woman will 
have disturbed conjugal life or may become a widow. 


_ If the 8" house is occupied by a malefic and the 2nd 


house by a benefic, the woman will die in presence 
of her husband. 


Chapter 13: Female Horoscope 139 


6. 


If the 8" house or 12 house is occupied by Mars and 
Rahu will be conjoined with a malefic in any house, 
the woman will become widow and may lead an 
immoral life. 


. If the ascendant be occupied by the Sun, Mars or 


Saturn, the woman may be most unfortunate. 


. If Mars is posited in the 8" house from the natal 


Moon, the woman will have abortion; if Jupiter and 
Venus will be in the 8” house, her children will not 
live long and may die after birth; if the Sun will 
remain there, she will have haemorrhage; and if 
Saturn will be in the 8 house, she will be sickly. 


It may be mentioned here that the position of any planet 
in the 8 house is not auspicious for woman's health 
but 8th is 2nd from 7th, so it is good for her husband. 


H. Pre-eminent fortune of women 


1. If the ascendant is occupied by Jupiter or 7th house 
is occupied by Moon or 10™ house by Venus in its 
own sign or own navamsa, the woman will marry 
a very rich person even if she is from a poor family. 

2. If all the Kendras are occupied by benefics and if 
the 7" house from the ascendant is of Gemini and 
all the malefic planets are posited in it, the woman 
will have no enemies; she will be wealthy, happy 
and contented. 

3. If Jupiter is posited in any Kendra and is powerful 
in Sadavarga, the woman will have abundant wealth 
and will enjoy the comforts of luxurious conveyances. 

4. lf the 11™ house is occupied by Moon and the 7” 
house be occupied by Venus and Mercury and 
aspected by Jupiter, the woman will be wife of a 
person of high position and authority and always 
be praised by eulogists. 


5. If the ascendant is Virgo and Mercury is posited in 


it and if the 11" house is occupied by Jupiter, the 
woman will be like a queen with great reputation. 


140 


Analysis of Marriage through Astrology 


6. If Mercury occupies 3 house and Jupiter 4" house 


and is powerful in Sadavarga and Venus is in 
ascendant, the woman will be a very rich lady. There 
will be a number of luxurious cars under her 
command. 


7. If birth ascendant is either Gemini or Leo or Virgo 


or Libra or Scorpio or Aquarius or Pisces and Moon 
occupies it and if there is no malefic planets in the 
Kendras, the woman will be wife of a very rich 
man with many vehicles under her command. 

8. If, at birth, three planets are powerful in the 
sadavarga, the woman will be wife of a king; if 
four planets are powerful in the sadavarga, she will 
be wife of a Godly person. In case of five planets 
strongly placed in the sadavarga, she will be wife 
of Indra (a very influencial man of authority). 


. If ascendant is Aquarius and the 4" house, Taurus, 


is occupied by full Moon and is aspected by Jupiter, 
the woman will be wife of a very rich person with 
power and authority. She will have many sons and 
grandsons and will subdue her enemies. 


10. lf the 4" house from the ascendant is Gemini and 


is occupied by Mercury, the native will be highly 
respected and reputed lady. 


11. If Mars occupies 3" or 6" house and is in the varga 


of benefic planets in sadavarga, Saturn occupies 11" 


house and ascendant is in a fixed sign and occupied 
by Jupiter, the woman will be a queen and is loved 
by her husband. 


12. If the natal ascendant is Gemini and the 11 house 


is occupied by the Sun, the ascendant by Moon and 
the 10 house by Mercury in its own navamsa, the 
woman will be a very rich lady and will have many 
sons and grandsons. 

. If the Sun is powerful in sadavarga and occupies 
3"! house from ascendant and Saturn is posited in 
the 6™ house, the woman will be a very rich person. 
She will be virtuous and will be loved by her 
husband. 


Chapter 13: Female Horoscope 141 


14. If the ascendant is in a fixed sign and is occupied 
or aspected by Mercury having shubha sadavarga 
and if a planet is posited in its house of exaltation, 
the woman will be wife of a very wealthy person 
and is blessed with many vehicles. 

15. If, at birth, the ascendant is Virgo and Mercury is 
posited in it and also 11™ house is occupied by 
Jupiter, 2°’ house by Venus and the 10" house by 
Moon, the woman will marry a very rich person 
and will have much wealth. 


I. Barrenness of women 

1. If a sign is occupied by Moon and Saturn or Mars, 
Jupiter and Saturn and other planets are posited in 
the 7'* house, the woman is unable to conceive and 
beget child. 

2. If four planets, the Sun, Moon Mars and Jupiter all 
together are in the ascendant or in the 8" house, the 
woman will have no child. 

3. If the 8 house from the ascendant is occupied by the 
Sun, Moon, Mars, Jupiter and Saturn, the woman 
will be barren. 

4. If all the planets are posited in the Lagna, 2"4, 4, 5%, 
10° and 12" houses of a male nativity, he will have 
no procreative proclivity. And if the same disposition 
of planets are found in a female horoscope, she will 
be barren. 

5. It has been stated by Satyacharya that if Moon 
occupies the ascendant with a malefic and also 
posited in the navamsa of a malefic, the woman will 
be barren. 

6. If the Sun or Saturn be the lord of ascendant or 8" 
house and if either of the two houses are occupied 
by any one of them, the woman will beget only one 
child. 

7. If the ascendant be the house of Saturn or Mars and 
is occupied by Moon in conjunction with Venus and 
also aspected by a malefic, the woman will become 
barren. 


142 Analysis of Marriage through Astrology 


. If the 8" house from the ascendant belongs to either 


the Sun or Saturn and if it be occupied by any one 
of them, the woman will produce only one child or 
she will become barren. 


Moral Character judged by Trisamsa 
a) If stronger of the Lagna or Moon falls in the signs 
of Mars (Aries or Scorpio) and also falls 


1. 


2; 


4, 


5: 


In the trisamasa of Mars, the native will be cruel 
with strong tendency to bvicious ways of life. 

In the trisamsa of Saturn, the native will be of loose 
character. 


. In the trisamsa of Jupiter, the native will become 


vietuous and lead a ideal sex life. 

In the trisamsa of Mercury, the native will be of 
crooked mind with untruthful habits. 

In the trisamsa of Venus, the native will be harlot. 


b) If stronger of the Lagna or Moon falls in the signs 
of Jupiter (Sagittarius or Pisces) and also falls 


1. 


Qe 


c) 


In the trisamsa of Mars, the native will be of 
extremely good and _ nice nature. 

In the trisamsa of Saturn, the native will have a 
tendency to have a paramour inspite of being married. 


. In the trisamsa of Jupiter, the native will be full of 


virtues and worthy qualities. 


. In the trisamsa of Mercury, the native will acquire 


great skill in all kinds of arts and crafts. 


. In the trisamsa of Venus, the native will be virtuous, 


pious and chaste. 


If stronger of the Lagna or Moon falls in the signs 
of Venus (Taurus or Libra) and also falls 


. In the trisamsa of Mars, the native will be vicious 


and immoral. 


. In the trisamsa of Saturn, the native will remarry 


after death or divorce of husband. 


Chapter 13: Female Horoscope 143 


3. 


4, 


In the trisamsa of Jupiter, the native will be adored 
for brilliant qualities. 

In the trisamsa of Mercury, the native will be proficient 
in all arts. 


. In the trisamsa of Venus, the native will possess 


excellant qualities and virtues. 


d) If stronger of the Lagna or Moon falls in the signs 


1 


2. 


of Mercury (Gemini or Virgo) and also falls 

.In the trisamsa of Mars, the native will have a crooked 
mind. 

In the trisamsa of Saturn, the native will have a 
characteristic of an eunuch or she may become a 
widow. 

. In the trisamsa of Jupiter, the native will be entirely 
devoted to her husband and be obedient to him. 


. In the trisamsa of Mercury, the native will be lovely 


and endowed with admirable qualities. 
. In the trisamsa of Venus, the native will acquire 
unquestionable sexual cravings. 


e) If stronger of the Lagna or Moon falls in the signs 


of Saturn (Capricorn or AquariusVirgo) and also 
falls 

.In the trisamsa of Mars, the native will lead her life 
as servitude 

. In the trisamsa of Saturn, the native may become 
quite downtrodden and despised. 

. In the trisamsa of Jupiter, the native will be chaste 
and virtuous. 

. In the trisamsa of Mercury, the native will be 
immoral and idiotic. 


. In the trisamsa of Venus, the native will be profligate 


and may be without children. 


144 Analysis of Marriage through Astrology 


f) 


1. 


2. 


~~ 


8 


If stronger of the Lagna or Moon falls in the sign 
of Sun (Leo) and also falls 

In the trisamsa of Mars, the native will be of 
masculine disposition and very often unchaste. 

In the trisamsa of Saturn, the native may become 
outcaste from her society. 


. In the trisamsa of Jupiter, the native will get a royal 


husband. 


. In the trisamsa of Mercury, the native will behave 


and act like a man. 


. In the trisamsa of Venus, the native will not hesitate 


to have a paramour. 


If stronger of the Lagna or Moon falls in the sign 
of Moon(Cancer} and also falls 


. In the trisamsa of Mars, the native will be of 


independent nature mostly misguided. 


. In the trisamsa of Saturn the native may become 


widow. 


.In the trisamsa of Jupiter, the native will possess all 


kinds of good qualities. 


. In the trisamsa of Mercury, the native will be skillful 


in all kinds of arts. 


. In the trisamsa of Venus, the native will be lustful. 


CHAPTER-14 
Marriage Match-Making 


Mewes is an important event in the life of a human 
being, when man and woman promise to each 
other to enter into wedlock and live together peacefully 
and happily throughout the life and produce children 
to keep the flow of offspring. This social arrangement 
and legal sanction is called marriage. If the man and 
woman continue to oppose each other at every point of 
time in their marriage life, their lives will not run 
smoothly and will become hell. It is, therefore, advisable 
to verify their sex compatibility, mentalities, hobbies, 
interests or likings before fixing the marriage. If it is 
done so, it will save lot of troubles in their future lives. 


The ascendant is called the native him/herself and the 
7" house indicates social relationship and spouse. As 
the 7" house is in the exact opposition of the ascendant, 
there will be always some kind of opposition or 
disagreement with others views in our marriage as well 
as social lives. Nevertheless it is necessary to have some 
kind of agreement to enable us to lead an amicable life. 
To sort out this problem our ancient astrologers 
developed a mechanism to compare the horoscopes of 
bride and groom. This is called Kundali Milan or 
marriage-match-making or compatibility. 


146 Analysis of Marriage through Astrology 


Moon plays an important role in marriage compatibility. 
Moon is the ruler of mind. Therefore, our ancient seers 
and saints considered the nakshatras in which Moon is 
posited in the horoscopes of both the girl and the boy 
for examination of marriage compatibility. But as per 
opinions of most experienced astrologers of the modern 
time, it is also better to look into and examine the 
compatibility from the nakshatras of the Sun and Lagna 
of bride and bridegroom. It is because the Sun rules 
over soul and the ascendant rules over the strength of 
body and both are necessary for success of a marriage 
life. So we have to look into both the aspects or at least 
we have to examine the ascendants of both bride and 
bridegroom and the position of their Sun. 


1.Compatibility of Marriage—Asta Koota Milan 
There are eight points known as Kootas which are 
examined for matching of a marriage. They are as follows 
1. Varna Koota (caste group); 2. Vashya Koota (who 
comes under whose control); 3. Tara Koota (Group of 
nakshatras in Nava Tara chakra); 4.Yoni Koota (Sex); 5. 
Grahamaitri Koota (friendship of planets); 6. Gana Koota 
(quality of mentality) 7. Rasi Koota (placement of birth 
signs); 8. Nadi Koota (nerves) ~ 

* One has to see the Gana Koota for the Kshatriyas, 
Vaishya Koota for Vaishyas, Yoni Koota for Shudras 
and Grahamaitri for Brahmins. However Nadi Koota, 
Tara Koota and Rasi Koota should be examined for all. 
However all 8 koots should be examined for all. 

* As per some astrologers 

Marks allotted to each Koota are as follows: 

Varna Koota—1; Vashya Koota—2; Tara Koota—3; Yoni 
Koota—4; Grahmaitri Koota—5;Gana Koota—6; Rasi 
Koota-7; Nadi Koota-8. Total of marks is 36. Out of 
these there must be at least-18 marks which might give 
some auspicious results. This is the common belief. 
However experienced astrologers feel that if 7", 8 and 
4" house are favourable in the horoscopes of the couple, 


Chapter 14: Marriage Match-Making 147 


they can enjoy a happy life married. 

The compatibility of the bride and the bridegroom has 
to be examined from their Janma Nakshatras (birth 
stars). But if birth stars of both bride and bridegroom 
are not known, Vasistha Muni says that the compatibility 
is to be verified from the name Nakshatras. It means 
that birth stars are verified with birth stars only and 
name stars are verified with name stars only. lf somebody 
has several names, tagged one after the other, then the 
last name has to be taken for consideration. If first letter 
in the name happen to be a joint letter then the first of 
the joint letter should be taken for consideration. For 
example take the names of Sri Ram. The first letter is 
composed of "sa" and "ra". Here "sa" letter should be 
taken for consideration. 


if match-making scores up to 17 marks it should be 
rejected. Marks from 18 to 25 are termed as average, 
marks from 25 to 30 are said to be good and marks 
from 30 to 36 are considered as best. So decision should 
be taken accordingly. 


1. Varna Koota, marks allotted-1. This Koota represents 
degree of spirituality in the couple. The twelve Rasis are 
divided into four categories of Varnas. 1. Brahmin is the 
highest, then Kshatriyas, then Vaishyas and the last is 
Shudras. 


1. Brahmins Pisces, Cancer and Scorpio 

2 Kshatriyas = Aries, Leo and Sagittarius 

3. Vaishyas = Taurus, Virgo and Capricorn. 

4. Shudras = Gemini, Libra and Aquarius 

Varna of Groom should be either equal to or superior to 
that of bride. For this one mark is given. In case of a 
bride marrying a bridegroom of inferior Varna (caste), 
no mark is given ie. score is 0. 


148 Analysis of Marriage through Astrology 


Table for ready reckoner of Varna Koota. 


For Groom-> Brahmin Kshatriya Vaishya Shudra 

Bride Below 

Brahmin 1 0 0 0 

Kshatriya 1 1 0 0 

Vaishya 1 1 1 0 

Shudra 1 1 1 1 

2. Vashya koota; marks allotted -2. All the signs of 


zodiac are devided in to five Vashyas(categories) as 
follows. 


1. 


Chatuspada or quadruped : - Aries, Taurus, 2” half 


of Sagittarius and first half of Capricorn. 


2 


Dwipada (Manushya or human) :- Gemini, Virgo, 


Libra, first half of Sagittarius and Aquarius. 


. Jalchar Rasi :- Cancer, 24 half of Capricorn and Pisces. 
. Banachar Rasi (Roaming in forest) :- Leo. 
. Keet Rasi :- Scorpio. 


bridegroom and bride belong to the same Vaishya, it 
ideal and scores 2 full marks. 


. For Chatuspada male, Chatuspada female gets 2, 


Dwipada female gets 1, Jalchar female gets 1, 
Banachar female gets 0 and Keet female gets | 


. For Dwipada Male category, Dwipada Female gets 2, 


Chatuspada female gets 1, Jalchar female gets %, 
Banachar female gets Oand Keet female gets 0. 


. For Jalchar male, Jalchar female gets 2, Dwipada 


female gets 1/2, Chatuspada female gets 1, Banachar 
female gets 1 and Keet female gets 1, 


. For Banachar male, Banachar female gets 2, Dwipada 


female gets 0, Chatuspada female gets 0, Jalchar 
female gets |, and Keet female gets 0. 


. For Keet male, Keet female gets 2, Dwipada female 1, 


Chatuspada female |, Jalchar female 1 and Banachar 
female gets 0. 

According to Muhurta Chintamani, Gemini, Virgo, 
Libra and Ist half of Sagittarius are human(Dwipada) 
signs. Except Leo, all other signs are under control 


Chapter 14: Marriage Match-Making 149 


(Vashya)of these signs. Watery signs Pisces and Cancer 
are eatables. Except Scorpio all other signs come under 
the Vashya (control) of Leo. From the above we see 
that signs under Vashya Koota are categorized as 
friendship, enmity and eatables (consumable). If there 
is enmity between the two and is consumable then it 
will be of no use and score is 0. If there is friendship 
between the two, then two marks will be granted. If 
it comes under contro] of one with enmity with 
another then one mark is granted. If One is 
controllable(Vashya) and the other is eatable, then 
one and half mark is allotted. 


Table for ready reckoner of Vashya Koota 


Fea Chatuspada leat 


ia ore Ses 
a 
i 
aad | 
ee Za 


3. Tara Koota :- Score-3 Count the number of Janma 
Nakshatra of bride from the Janma Nakshatra of Groom 
and the result is divided by 9. If the remainder is 3, 5 
or 7 then it is inauspicious and score is 0; otherwise 
benefic and score is one and half. 


Again count the Janma Nakshatra of groom from the 
Janma Nakshatra of bride and the result is divided by 
9. If the remainder is 3, 5 or 7 then it is inauspicious 
and the score is 0 other wise benefic and score is one 
and _ half. 


If both are benefic then score is 3, if one is benefic and 
another is malefic then score is one and half and if both 
are malefic then score is 0. 


150 Analysis of Marriage through Astrology 


Table for ready reckoner of Tara Koota 


Janma aie Vipada |Kshe as i Sadh |Badha}Mitra]Ati mitra 
ma 
Fe 


fee oe 
Oe 
Cm 


w 


a 
1.5 jo fs 0 [iS FS 
3 __| 


4. Yoni Koota; marks allotted- 4 Yoni Koota indicates 
sexual compatibility of couple. Under this disposition 28 
nakshatras including Abhijit have been allotted Yoni of 
animals as given below. 


Aswini,]Horse or Aswa Bufallo or Mahish 
Satbhisy 


Bufallo oF Mahish 
SDRanlaie Lion or Sinha Elephant or Hasti or Gaja 
deat ae 


4. Bharani, Revati]/Elephant or Hasti or Gaja Lion of Sinha 


5. Pushya, Kritika]Ram or Mesh 

6. Shravan,|Monkey or Banar Ram or Mesh 

I Uttarashada, iy Serpent or Sarpa 

8. Rohini, |Serpent or Sarpa Nakul 

9. Jyestha,|Deer or Mriga Dog or Swan 

Anuradha 

10. Moola, Ardra {Dog or Swan Deer or Mriga 

Mh. Punarvasu,|Cat or Marjar 

Fe a | Raa a 

12. Magha, Rat or Musak Cat or Marjar 

pe ee 
Vishakha,|T iger ar Vyaghra Cow or Gou 


14. Cow or Gou Tiger or Vyaghra 
Uttarbhadrapada, 
Uttarphalguni 


Chapter 14: Marriage Match-Making 151 


If Yoni Kootas of both bride and groom are same the 
result will be favourable and there will be wealth. If 
Yoni Kootas are different then result will be different 
and there will be enmity between the couple. If the Rasi 
Koota and the Vashya Koota happen to be favourable, 
there will not be any problem even though score in 
Yoni Koota is 0. 


There are 28 nakshatras including ABHIJIT having 14 
Yonies of animals. These have been segregated into five 
categories namely extreme enmity, enmity, neutral, 
friendship and extreme friendship. If nakshatras of both 
belong to category of extreme enmity, score is zero, if 
belong to enmity category score is one, for neutral 
category score is 2, for friendship score is 3 and for 
extreme friendship score is 4. 


Table for ready reckoner of Yoni koota 

Grom » 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 #13 «14 
Bride 

1 Aswa 

2 Gaja 

3 Mesha 

4 Sarpa 

5 Swana 

6 Bilav 

7 Musak. 

8 Gou 

9M ahish 

10 Vyaghra 

11 Mriga 

12 Vanar 

13 Nakul 

14 Sinha 


BPN NYM wWeE DH wWHWN NWHY F 
SONNY KWH KH WWW NH YW FEW 
PN OW HW WW WN NY FF WW 
NY OUWNNN NH ee NY F NY NY 
NyVwnonrnnrnnrdrde FP NYY DY 
NNN WHY WwW OR me BW WwW 
NYunYy nN WwW FON —= WW W 
ENN WwW ow FW WN NY WWW 
BN NM We P WW WN NOW SO 
NNN ee Fe CONN NNH He 
Be NN Fe Un wWBwWwwWON WwW W 
NNA NNN NHNNHNH HON DY 
NPRM NYY NY NEN NONN N 
BNN Wee EE NNN Y OL 


5. Grahamaitri Koota; Marks allotted-5. From this Koota 
friendship between the Rasi Lords of both the bride and 
the groom are judged. The following table shows the 
relation between the planets. 


152 Analysis of Marriage throngh Astrology 
Planet Friends Neutrals Enemies 

Sun Moon, Mars, Jupiter Mercury Saturn, Venus 
Moon Sun, Mercury Rest planets None 

Mars Sun, Moon, Jupiter Venus, Satum Mercury 
Mercury, Sun, Venns Jupiter, Saturn, Mars Moon 

Venns Merenry, Saturn Jupiter, Mars Sun, Moon 
Saturn Mercury, Venus Jupiter Sun, Moon, Mars 
Rahu Venus, Saturn Mercury, Jupiter Sun, Moon, mars 
Ketu Sun, Moon, Mars Mercury, Jupiter Venus, Saturn 
Jupitor Sun, Moon, Mars Saturn Mercury, Venus 


1. If the lords of the groom and the bride Janma Rasis 
are same the score is 5 marks. 
2. If one is friend and another is neutral viz. Saturn and 
Mercury the score is 4 marks 
3. If the lords of both Rasis are neutral to each other 
viz. Jupiter and Saturn, the score is 3 marks. 
4. If one is friend and another is enemy like Moon and 
Mercury the score is % marks. 
5. If both are enemy, score is 0. 
Navamsa Lord of Rasi should also be considered for 
Grahamaitri Koota. 


Table for ready reckoner of Grahamaitri Koota 


Groom-> San Moon Mars Mercury Jupiter Venns Satorn 
Bride below 

Sun $s 5 5 4 5 0 0 
Moon 5 5 4 i 4 05 05 
Mars 5 4 5 05 5 3 05 
Mercury 4 1 05 5 05 4 
Jupiter 5 4 5 0.5 5 05 3 
Venns 0 05 3 5 05 5 5 
Saturn 0 05 05 4 3 5 5 


6. Gana kootas; Score-6. Nakshatras have been divided 
into three categories namely, Deva Ganas, Manushya 
Ganas and Rakshasa Ganas. 


Chapter 14: Marriage Match-Making 153 


Deva Gana Anuradha, Punarvasu, Mrigasira, Shravana,Revati, Swati,Hasta, Aswini 
and Pushya 

Manushy,orNa] Purvaphalgunu,Purvaashada,Purvabhadrapada, Uttaraphalguni, Uttarasha 

ra Gana da, Uttarabhadrapada,Rohini,Bharani, Ardra 


shasa Magha, Ashlesha, Dhanistha,Jyestha, Moola,Shatbhisaj,Krittika, Chitra 
Gana 'Vishakha 


If both the bride and the groom have the same Ganas, 
the score is 6 marks. 

If the groom is Deva and the bride is Manushya, the 
score is 5 marks. 

If the bride is Deva and the groom is Manushya, the 
score is 4. 

If the bride is Deva and the groom is Rakshasa, the 
score is 2. 

If the male is Rakshasa and the female is Manushya, 
the score is 1. 

If the male is Deva and the female is Rakshasa, the 
score is Q. 

If the male is Manushya and the female is Rakshasa, 
the score is 0. 


If the nakshatras of the bride and the groom belong to 
the same group, there will be friendship between the 
couple. 1f one is Deva Gana and the other is Manushya 
Gana , there will be medium relation between them. But 
if one is of Rakshasa Gana and another is Manushya 
Gana, it indicates the worst relation and death. 


There is another argument in this respect. Even though 
friendship is not found among the lords of the signs or 
Rasis, but the navamsa lords are friends, it can be treated 
as friendship. When there is planetary friendship and 
Rasi friendship, there will not be any problem even if 
Gana friendship does not exist 


154 Analysis of Marriage through Astrology 


Table for ready reckoner of Gana Koota 


Groom> Deva Gana Manushya Gana Rakshasa Gana‘ 
Bride below 

Deva Gana 6 5 1 

Manushya Gana 6 6 0 


Rakshasa Gana 


o 


0 6 


.7. Bhakoot or Rasi Koota; Score-7. Examine the position 
of Janma Rasis in the horoscopes of both the bride and 
the groom. 

If they are located mutually in 2/12 or 6/8 or 5/9 
positions, this is treated as malefic and no point or mark 
is given. For location in other places full 7 marks are 
given. 2/12 position indicates poverty, 5/9 indicates loss 
of children and 6/8 placement indicates death. 


Other points to be examined 

(1). If both the male and the female have the same Rasi 
or sign it is considered favourable provided they are not 
in the same nakshatra. If they are in same nakshatra, 
they should not be in same Charan. It gives love and 
affection, Saubhagya (longevity to the couple), wealth 
and children. 


(2).2/12 position is considered malefic when the bride is 
second from the groom and therefore should be avoided, 
but if the bride is 12th from the groom it is not considered 
malefic and therefore should be considered favourable. 
2/12 position is not considered malefic if their lords are 
friend namely lords of signs Taurus-Gemini, Cancer-Leo, 
Virgo-Libra, Scorpio-Sagittarius, Capricorn-Aquarius, 
Pisces-Aries are friends. So their 2/12 position is not 
malefic and therefore should be considered favourable. 
If 2? sign counted from the male sign is female sign 
then it causes loss of money to the husband, but if 12" 
sign counted from the male sign is female, the bride will 
be rich and loved by her husband. 


Chapter 14: Marriage Match-Making 155 


Auspicious Dwidwadashas (2/12) 

1. Pisces-Aries gives longevity 2. Taurus-Gemini indicates 
comforts, luxury and pleasure from sons 3. Cancer-Leo 
gives pleasure from wealth and sons 4. Virgo-Libra gives 
comforts from husband 5. Scorpio-Sagittarius gives 
longevity for husband and 6.Capricorn-Aquarius gives 
money, wealth and gains. 


Inauspicious Dwidwadashas (2/12) 

1. Aries-Taurus inflicts death of husband 2. Gemini- 
Cancer causes death 3. Leo-Virgo causes assassination, 
4. Libra-Scorpio imprisonment 5. Sagittarius-Capricorn 
causes separation and 6. Aquarius-Pisces causes too 
much grief. 


(3). 3/11 position is considered benefic and hence 
favourable and get full 7 marks. It gives wealth, comforts, 
development of plan and endearment. 


(4). 4/10 position is benefic and gets full 7 marks but 4/ 
{OQ position of Taurus-Leo, Cancer-Libra, Virgo- 
Sagittarius, Scorpio-Aquarius, Capricorn-Aries and 
Pisces-Gemini are considered malefic because their lords 
are mutually enemies. It is said to cause poverty and 
therefore should be avoided. Benefic 4/10 position gives 
comforts and happiness. 


(5). 5/9 position is called Nava Pancham Dosha. Even if 
their lords are friends this position is considered malefic. 
If birth sign of the bride is 5 counted from that of the 
groom and is a female sign, it is considered bad and 
causes children problem, even loss of children but 
comparatively the 9% position counted from the groom's 
sign is a female sign, it is not considered so bad. It helps 
beget children and happiness through them. 


156 Analysis of Marriage through Astrology 


Auspicious Nava Pancham (5/9) 

1. Aries-Leo 2. Taurus-Virgo 3. Gemini-Libra 4. Leo- 
Sagittarius 5.Libra-Aquarius 6.Scorpio-Pisces 7.Sagittarius- 
Aries and 8.Capricorn-Taurus. 


Inauspicious Nava Pancham 
1. Cancer-Scorpio 2. Virgo-Capricorn 3.Aquarius-Gemini 
and 4. Pisces 


(6). 6/8 positions is called Shadastak (Shada Ashtak) 
relation and is considered bad if their lords are enemies 
but if they are friends then it is not considered so bad. 
For example, the Lords of Aries-Scorpio, Taurus-Libra, 
Cancer-Sagittarius, Pisces-Leo, Capricorn-Gemini, Virgo- 
Aquarius are friends and therefore in spite of having 
Shadashtak Dosha these positions will be considered 
benefic or auspicious shadashtak and hence favourable. 


Inauspicious Shadashataks are 1. Aries-Virgo, 2. 
Gemini-Scorpio, 3. Leo-Capricorn, 4. Libra-Pisces, 
5.Sagittarius-Taurus and 6. Aquarius-Cancer. 
Unfavourable Shadashtak position causes diseases and 
death. 


Even if there is Shadashtak dosh, it will be cancelled if 
there is planetary friendship, good Vashya Koota, Tara 
Sudhhi and Nadi Sudhhi ie. the couple should not have 
same Nadi or Ekanadi. 

(7). 1/7 (Sama Saptak) position is considered good and 
gets full 7 marks. But Aries-Libra, Gemini-Sagittarius, 
Cancer- Capricorn and Leo- Aquarius although have 
Sama Saptaka relation, they are not considered 
auspicious. Due to this relation there is a possibility of 
quarrel between the couple. However Sama Saptak 
position gives endearment, wealth, luxury, comforts and 
happiness. 


Chapter 14: Marriage Match-Making 157 


Position of Mars in 8 house is considered the most 
malefic. In a female horoscope if Mars is in the g" if 
may cause death to the husband because the 8” is 2™4 
(Marakasthan) from the 7" (husband). 

Mars in the 8" house indicates violent or sudden death. 
In a watery sign it may inflict death by drowning, in a 
fiery sign death by fire or violence, in an airy sign death 
may be by mental affliction or by accident in air. 


Afflicted Mars in the 8 house gives incurable diseases, 
vulgar speeches, venereal disease, disorder of blood, 
kidney problem, ulcer, biliousness, bladder trouble etc. 


There would not be any malefic effect from Mars in the 
8" house if it is combust, or in a debilitated sign or in 
the enemy's sign. 


Mars in the 7" house with benefic aspect from Jupiter 
will not create Kuja Dosha. It will assure all comforts of 
life. 


If malefic planets are found in the 2° or the 7” house 
in a male horoscope it will cause separation from the 
wife, but if married to a woman with similar planetary 
position he may enjoy prosperity. 


If a benefic planet is found posited in the 7th house or 
the 7" lord is posited in the 7° house either from the 
Lagna or from the natal Moon, Anapatya Dosha or 
Vishangana Dosha (poisonous woman) is removed. 


However maleficness of Bhakoota Dosha may be rectified 

if 

1. Lords of Janma Signs of male and female are friends 

2. There is no Nadi Dosha in the matching of nativities 
of both the male and the female. 

3. Navamsa lords of their birth sign lords are friends. 


158 Analysis of Marriage through Astrology 


4. Both the horoscopes of the bride and the groom have 
benefic Tara 

5. Their Vashya Koota and Nadi Koota have proper 
and perfect matching. 

Table for ready reckoner of Bhakoota or Rasi Koota 


Boy----Girl 1 2 3 4 5 6 Hh 8 9 (Cee © Oe 
Below 

1.Aries 7 0 7 7 0 0 i: 0 0 vi 7 0 
2.Taurus 0 7 #O 7F 7 0 0 7 GO GO FT 7 
3.Gemini | 0 7 0 7 T. 0 0 7 0 0 7 
4.Cancer 7 7 0 7 0 7 7 0 0 7 0 0 
§.Leo 0 0 7 0 7 0 7 7 0 0 Z 0 
6.Virgo 0 0 7 7 0 7 0 vi 7 0 0 ai 
7 Libra 7 0 0 7 7 0 7 0 7 7 0 0 
8.Scorpio 0 7 0 0 7 a: 0 7 0 if 7 0 
9. Sagg. 0 0 q 0 0 7 7 0 7 0 7 7 
10,Caprico 7 0 0 7 0 0 7 7 0 7 0 7 
1 Aquari 7 7 0 0 7 0 0 7 7 0 7 0 
12 Pisecs 0 7 7 0 0 7 0 0 7 i, 0 7 


8. Nadi Koota Score -8. The nakshatras are divided 
into three groups called 1. Adi Nadi 2. Madhya Nadi 3. 
Antya Nadi. Marriage is not compatible when the Janma 
Nakshatras of both the bride and the groom are the 
same. ]t scores 0 marks. If nakshatras are dissimilar it 
scores full 8 marks. 


Adi Nadi—Jyestha, Moola, Uttarphalguni, Hasta, Ardra, 
Punarvasu, Shatbhisaj, Purvabhadrapada, Aswini. 


Madhya Nadi—Pushya, Mrigasira, Chitra, Anuradha, 
Bharani, Dhanistha, Purvashada, Purvaphalguni, 
Uttarabhadrapada. 

Antya Nadi—Swati, Vishakha, Krittika, Rohini, 
Ashlesha, Magha, Uttarashada, Shravana, Revati. 


Method of determining the Adi, Madhya and Antya 
Nadi. Divide the number of Janma Nakshatras of both 
the bride and the groom by 6. Ignoring the quotient if 


Chapter 14: Marriage Match-Making 159 


the remainder is 1 or 0 it will be the Adi Nadi, if the 
remainder is 2 or 5 it will be the Madhya Nadi and if 
the remainder is 3 or 4 it will be the Antya Nadi. 


If the Adi Nadi happens to be the same Nadi for both 
the bride and the groom, their separation is indicated. If 
the Madhya Nadi is the same for both the bride and the 
groom, destruction of both is indicated and if the Antya 
Nadi is the same Nadi for the couple then death of 
husband is indicated. Therefore if Nadi Koota is not in 
order it destroys the entire effects of all seven Kootas. 


Exceptions; - If the male and the female have the same 
Janma Rasi but different Nakshatras there is no Nadi 
Dosha. But the male Nakshatra must be earlier one and 
the female Nakshatra must be later one. For example 
both have Gemini as Janma Rasi but male is born in 
Ardra Nakshatra and female in Punarvasu, hence there 
is no Nadi Dosha. 


In case both are born in the same Nakshatra but have 
different Janma Rasi, then there is no Nadi Dosha. But 
the birth sign of the groom must be earlier one and the 
bride's birth sign must be the later one. For example 
both are born in Krittika Nakshatra but the groom is 
born in Aries and the bride in Taurus, then there is no 
Nadi Dosha. 


If both are born in the same Nadi (Nakshatra) but in 
different Charans, then there is no Nadi dosha. 


The male's Nakshatra immediately after the female's 
Nakshatra is considered inauspicious. For example the 
male's Nakshatra is Pushya and the female's Nakshatra 
is Punarvasu. Hence it is inauspicious. 


160 Analysis of Marriage through Astrology 


Same Nakshatras 

Marriage is admissible or permitted if the Janma 
Nakshatras of both the bride and the groom happen to 
be Rohini, Ardra, Magha, Hasta, Vishakha, Shravana, 
Uttarabhadrapada, Revati, Aswini, Krittika, Mrigasira, 
Punarvasu, Pushya, Purvaphalguni, Uttarphalguni, 
Chitra, Anuradha, Purvashada, Uttarashada, but the 
Nakshatras of the couple must have different Charans 
(Padas). Such type of marriage has middle status. 


Marriage may be permitted in the following set of 
Nakshatras of the bride and the groom-1.Rohini-Magha 
2.Purvabhadrapada-Rohini 3.Aswini-Punarvasu 4. Swati- 
Uttarashada 


Marriage is not permitted if the following Janma 
Nakshatras of the male and the female are the same. 
Bharani, Ashlesha, Swati, Jyestha, Moola, Dhanistha, 
Shatabhisaj, Purvabhadrapada. 


Marriage is not permitted to the male and the female if 
their birth stars are 1. Krittika-Ashalesha 2.Ashalesha- 
Swati 3. Chitra- Purvashada 4.Anuradha- Dhanistha 
5.Dhanistha- Bharani and 6.Shatabhisaj-Krittika 7.Ardra- 
uttarphalguni 8.Purvaphalguni-Anuradha 90.Chitra- 
Pushya 10.Punarvasu-Hasta 1l.Jyestha-Shatbhisaj 12. 
Uttarabhadrapada-Mrigasira 13.Hasta-Moola. 

Such marriage may ruin the family and cause loss of 
money and wealth. Fear of death is also indicated. 


Charan Vedha 

We have seen from the above that marriage is 
permissible for the same Nakshatra but with different 
Charan or Pada but there are certain padas which 
constitute Vedha (obstruction) in the marriage. This is 
called Charan Vedha and therefore Charan Vedha should 
be examined and if found should be avoided. Charan 


Chapter 14: Marriage Match-Making, 161 


Vedha is as follows. 1% and 4 Charan and 4 and 1" 
Charan also with 2™ to 3 and 3% to 2" Charan. 


Remedy of Nadi Dosha/Bhakoota Dosha 
1. In unavoidable circumstances one can perform 


5: 


MAHAMRITYUNJAYAJAPA to eliminate the evil 
effects of Nadi Dosha. One has to give Gold as 
remuneration to the priest or person who does the 
Japa. 


. A cow and gold should be given in charity to remove 


the bad effects of Ekanadi. 


. To remove the evil effects of Nadi Dosha one has to 


give a cow, clothes and food to the needy in charity. 


. Copper and gold should be offered in charity to 


remove the evil effects of Dwi-dwadash (2/12) Dosha. 


Two cows should be offered in charity to remove the 
evil effects of Shastashtaka Dosha (6/8) 


6. Silver and bronze should be given in charity to remove 
the bad effect of Nava Pancham (5/9). 


Table for ready reckoner of Nadi Koota 


Groom-> Adi Madhya Antya 
Bride below 

Adi 0 8 8 
Madhya 8 0 8 
Antya 8 8 0 


Ready reckoner- of Matching of Horoscopes of the 
bride and the groom 


Sign 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 OW NH 2 
MaleStar-> 1 3 5S 7 10, 12, 14, 16, 19, 21, 23, 25, 
Female 2 4 6 8 Ii, 13, 15, 17, 20, 22, 24, 26, 

3 5 7 9 2 14 16 18 21 23 25 27 


Star 


Freom first column downwards find the birth Nakshatra of girl, From that point horizontally final boy's Nakshatra. This gives you total point. 


MATCHING OF HOROSCOPE FOR MARRIAGE 


Male's Star 
Female’s 
Star & 
Pinda 


Asvini 
Bharani 
Krittika 
Krittika 
Rohini , 
Mrigasira 
Mrigasira 
Ardra 
Punarvasu 


Punarvasu 


Pusyami 
Asleha 
Magha 
PPhalguni 
Uttara 


Uttara 
Hasta 
Chitra 


22 26 22) 
13 28 21 


Poorvashadha 


07 20 

17 12 

22 15 07 
24 19 08 
20 17 24 
09 25 25 
14 29 29 
15 27 28 
27 13 21 


Uttarashadha 


Dhanisha 
Dhanisha 


12 10 24 
16 18 19 
21 26 12 
19 24 10 
21:22:17 
21 22 16 
26 27 21 
26 27 13 
13 13 26 


24 24 15 
23 24 18 
15.17 15 


Satabhisha 
Poorvadhadra 


19 14.15 
09 19 23 
24 25 19 
29 30 23 
24 24 29 
17 26 28 
12 21 22 
1912.17 
18.13 16 
12 05 09 
04 13:17 
1718.11 
23 24:17 
09 18 23 
17 10.15 
16 09 14 
19 10 13 
16 24-16 


Poorvadhadra 3 
Uttarvadhadra 3 


14 23 26 
22 16 25 
17 19 10 
20 22 13 
26 27 19 
25 18 27 
24 17 26 
18 26 26 
17 26 26 
16 25 24 
26 18 26 
17 20 12 
17 18 12 


17 28 26 
16 26 26 
19 10 19 


col 


ABojoysy Yysnomy aseiseyp jo siskjeuy 


MATCHING OF HOROSCOPE FOR MARRIAGE 


Male’s Star 
Female’s 
Star & 
Pinda 


Anuradha 
Poorvashadha 
Uttarshadha 
Uttarashadha 
Dhanishta 


20) ¥ 27 13 21] 23 25 23 
09 @ 23 27 19] 21 22 26 
16 18 174 17 18 26 16 16 21} 27 21 13 [15 15 29 
Visakha 24 22 21) 17 18 26 28 27 31] 2) 15 07] 1) 11 25 |24 25 19 ]19 18 09 
Anuradha 24 20 28) 24 25 II 28 28 31] 15 13 21] 25 26 12-| 11 20 24 | 24 17 26 
Jyestha 31 23 15} 11 11 24 31 30 28) 14 16 16] 20 20 25] 24 17 10] 09 20 20 
Moola 4 07 17 23 ? b 28 28 19 13°14 19 28 21 14] 16 24 26 
Poorvashadha 22 14 16 28 27 12 27 28 34] 22 29 05] 14 23 28] 29 22 30 
Uttarshadha 22 22 08 28 28 20 25 35 28] 16 15 13] 22 23 28] 29 30 22 
Uttrashadha 28 28 14} 04 20 21) 24 24 15 14 24 17] 28 27 25] 15 16 21 [29 30 22 
Sravana 4 28 28 14{ 05 18 20} 23 24 17 14 22 15] 26 28 27] 17 18 20} 28 22 23 
Dhanishta 21:13 27] 18 04 10} 15 17 15 20 07 14] 25 27 28 | 17 23 17 $24 15 22 
Dhanishta 12 04 18 17:19) 4 16 18 18] 28 33 27] 16 06 13 
Satabhisha 31 25 26] 20 12 12) 06 13 19} 25 19 11] 10 10 25 17 17 24733 28 29 ]08 14 15 
Poorvabhadra 3 17 24 19 | 24 30 30] 23 17:17] 11 19 12 [18 24 16 f15 15 17 20 26 11] 15 29 29 §22 22 18 J 27 19 28 [16 22 19 
Poorvabhadra 1 14 21 16 J19 25 25 [24 17 17117 25 17 24 22 14 19 25 09 | 14 28 28 [28 22 24 115 07 15 
Uttarvabhadra 4 23:15 18 }21 26 18] 17 25 26) 26 19 20 |17 15 25 127 26 08 18 18 20] 23 21 29 |29 29 14 [05 14 2) 
Revati 4 25 23 10] 13 17 26] 25 24 25) 24 26 13] 12 22 22)\24 25 19 10 26 21] 26 28 20 }23 21 22 }13 15 17 


we 


Supep-preyp sense “pL Jeydeyp 


COL 


164 Analysis of Marriage through Astrology 


Special observation 

Practical experience of the author indicates that 
Astakoota Kundali Milan is not enough. More emphasis 
should be given to the study of horoscopes of the couple. 
The following Birth Charts of the husband and the wife 
shows that although the match making score is 28 points, 
a divorce petition is pending in the Honourable Court. 


Case Study No.23 
DOB 29-06-1974 TOB 23-17 hours, POB Kolkata Sex-Male 


Chart 


Balance of Mahadasa of Rahu at birth 0 yr O mth 15 
days 


DOB 11-08-1978 TOB 06-17 hours POB Darjeeling Sex-Female 
Birth Chart 


Balance of Mahadasa of Rahu at birth 7 years 6 months 
3 days 


Marriage match making of the above two horoscopes 
scores 28 points which appears to be most favourable 


Chapter 14: Marriage Match-Making 165 


and auspicious as per the rules of the Astakoota Milan 
But the practical results are reverse. There is no love, 
peace and harmony in their conjugal life. After begetting 
a child, the relation between them has turned to be 
worse. A divorce suit is pending in the Honourable 
Court. The real cause of discord between the couple 
will be revealed by careful study of their horoscopes. In 
the horoscope of the husband the 7" lord mercury, a 
dual planet, is posited in the 4* house being retrograde 
and conjoined with the 12* lord Saturn and the 6" lord 
Sun and is aspected by the Lagna lord Jupiter from the 
12" house. The 2nd lord Mars is debilitated in the 5% 
house. Venus, the Karak Planet of marriage, is conjoined 
with Ketu in the 3"? house. Therefore, 7*/7™ lord, 2nd/ 
2™ lord 4" /4th lord and 5th /Sth lord are afflicted 
causing the native devoid of love, peace and happiness 
in his conjugal life. Besides the native has dual Lagna 
and dual 7" house. Hence there is duality in his 
character, so he wants to have a second marriage. 


In the horoscope of the wife, Lagna lord is the Sun 
posited in the 12 house and conjoined with the 5®/8* 
lord Jupiter and the Lagna is posited by 6/7 lord 
Saturn in the enemy sign Leo. the Sth lord Mars is in 
the 2 with Rahu and Venus. The 8th house is posited 
by Ketu. These points indicate that the native is full of 
ego and does not have tolerance power. Besides due to 
affliction of the 4* and the 5" houses she does not have 
love, peace and happiness in her conjugal life. 


Thus we come to the conclusion that Astakoota Milan 
is not the sole thing in marriage match making but it is 
necessary to study the individual horoscopes of the bride 
and the bridegroom. 


There is another example where Astakoota score is only 
8 but marriage of the couple is successful with love, 
peace and happiness. 


166 Analysis of Marriage through Astrology 


Case Study No.24 
DOB 17-12-1952 TOB 03-36am POB Chaibasa Sex-Male 
Birth 


hl a cela 
Mars 
en, Rahu 


a 
Sun Moon Asc 
Mere Sat 


Balance of Mahadasa of Mercury at birth 0 yr 6 mth 
26 days 


DOB 16-10-1957 TOB 04-38 am POB Bhagalpur Sex-Female 
Birth Chart 


Asc, Jup < 


= 


Ven, Sat Rahu | Ase,Jup.Mere 
Sun.Mars 


Balance of Mahadasa of Jupiter at birth 14 yrs 4 mths 
17 days 


As Astakoota score is very low only 8, it appears that 
the married life of the couple should be full of problems 
and discord, but the fact is that their conjugal life is full 
of love, peace and happiness. The husband is a top 
rank administrator and the wife is a good housewife 
managing household affairs very efficiently. They have 
very successful and highly educated two children. 

In the horoscope of the husband the 7” lord exalted 
Mars is conjoined with the Lagna Lord Venus in the 4® 
house with Rahu and the 7" house is posited by benefic 


Chapter 14: Marriage Match-Making 167 


Jupiter. Lagna is posited by exalted Saturn being the 5% 
lord. The 2" house is posited by benefic Moon and 
Mercury and the 2° lord is exalted in the 4” house. 
This indicates that there is love, peace and happiness in 
the conjugal life of the husband 

Similarly in the horoscope of the wife, 4°°/ 7" lord Jupiter 
is posited in the Lagna with Lagna lord Mercury, gi 
lord Mars and 12 lord Sun. The 2 lord and the 5™ 
lord are in the 3? house whose lord Mars is in the 
Lagna. This indicates that there is love, peace and 
happiness in her conjugal life 

Both the examples given above suggest that besides the 
Astakoota Milan, the individual judgment of horoscopes 
of the bride and the bridegroom are must. One should 
not solely depend on the result of Astakoota Milan. 
Therefore, the following four important points need to 
be considered and judged meticulously along with 
Astakoota Vichar. 


They are as follows 

1. Personality factor for both the bride and the groom, 
marks allotted is 14. 

2. Moral character for the bride, marks allotted is 15. 

3. Conjugal love, peace and happiness, marks allotted is 
20. 

4. Child bearing capacity of the bride, marks allotted is 
15. 

Arrangement of marking is done to keep parity with 

astakoota system of matching i.e. total marks stand 100. 


1. Personality Matching 

It is examined from the following planets. 

(a) Navamsa lord of ascendant——truler of personality 
(b)Trimsamsa Lord of the Sun 

(c) Trimsamsa lord of Moon 

(d) Drekkan lord of ascendant 

(ec) Navamsa Lord of 8" lord 

() Nakshatra lord of ascendant 


168 Analysis of Marriage through Astrology 


(g) Dwadasamsa lord of ascendant 
(h) Hora lord of ascendant 


If the native is a male and the hora lord of the ascendant 
is the Sun, the calculation of trimsamsa lord of Moon is 
not required. If the native is a female and the hora lord 
of the ascendant is Moon, the calculation of Trimsamsa 
ford of the Sun is not required. 

Jupiter, Sun and Moon are of Sattwika Guna. 

Venus and Mercury are of Rajasika Guna. 

Mars, Saturn, Rahu and Ketu are of Tamasika Guna. 
The nature of personality of the native will be according 
to the nature of planet that has maximum number of 
occurrence in the above set of planets. 


Results 

If the bride and the groom both are of Sattwika Guna, 

score is 14 

A (i) If the bride and the groom both are of Rajasika 
Guna, score is 14. 
(ii) If the bride and the groom both are of Tamasika 
Guna, score is 14 

B (i) If one is Sattwik Guna and another is of Rajo 
Guna score is 7 
(ii) If one is Tamsik Guna and another is of Rajsik 
Guna score is 7 

C @ If one is Tamo Guna and another is Sattwa Guna 
score is 0 


2. Moral Character of bride and Groom 
Loyalty and good moral character brings very much 
satisfaction in the marriage life of a couple. 


(a) Moral Character of bride 

Only Mars and Venus are considered for judgment of 

moral character of the bride. 

(1) If Trimsamsa lord of Mars and Venus have exchanged 
their houses in either birth chart or Navamsa chart 


Chapter 14: Marriage Match-Making 169 


or Trimsamsa chart, then the girl must have sex before 
marriage. Then marks scored are 0, if not, then score 
is 15. 

(2) If Mars and Venus are posited together within their 
mutual diptamsa in birth chart i. within +/- 3.75° 
the bride will be sexy and in such case score will be 
7.5. \f not, score will be 15 

(3)Examine the lords of 5, 6%, 8 and 12* houses. If all 
are afflicted then score will be 25% of 15 i. 3.75 
marks. If all lords are not afflicted and condition (2) 
above are satisfied, score will be 75 marks. If condition 
Cd) and (2) are satisfied and (3) is not satisfied then 
score is 11.25 marks. 


(b) Moral character of Groom 

For judgment of a male chart navamsa lords of Mars 
and Venus are considered in place of their trimsamsa: 
lords. Their applications should be done in the above 
procedure (a) accordingly. 


3. Conjugal love, peace and happiness 

Examine the 5 house and the 5™ lord for love and the 
4" house and the 4" lord for peace and happiness in 
the natal chart. Further, examine the navamsa lords of 
4" bhava centre (B.C) and/4th lord and also navamsa 
lords of 5% bhava centre and 5™ lord. If they are in the 
navamsa of malefic planets then score is 0; if not the 
score is 5 marks for each of the four planets ie. the 
navamsa lords of 4" B.C., 4th lord, 5" BC., and 5™ lord. 
Total marks are 4X 5=20. Malefic means natural and 
functional malefic. 


4. Child bearing capacity 

Begetting of children brings utmost satisfaction and 
happiness in the life of a married couple. It causes 
growth of healthy relationship and adjustment in their 
conjugal life. For judgment of child bearing capacity of 
the couple examine the navamsa lords of 5" Bhava centre 


170 Analysis of Marriage through Astrology 


& the 5" lord and the 11" Bhava centre & the 11" lord. 
If they are in the navamsa of natural/functional malefic 
then the score is 0 marks. If they are in the navamsa of 
natural/functional benefic planet then score 15/4 marks 
for each of the four planets. Total marks is 15/4X4=15. 


Further, examine in addition to the above, the planets 
posited in the 11" house of the natal as well as the 
navamsa chart. (a) If the posited planet is Rahu or Sun 
or Mars or Jupiter then it will be favourable for child 
bearing and the score will be 3. (b) If Moon is posited 
in the 11* house, the score will be 2 (c) If Mercury is 
posited there, the score will be 1 (d) If Saturn or Ketu 
will be posited there, the score will be zero (e) If there 
is no planet posited in the 11 house, the score will be 
zero.(f) If Mercury and Moon are posited together in 
the 11* house, the score will be (2+1)/2=1.5 


Total of 36 marks of astakoota and 64 marks of above 
four points make 100 marks. If match-making scores are 
more than 50 marks including 50, then matching is 
perfect and ideal. 


Special matters to be judged for matching 

1. Patni/Pati hanta Yoga;- Mars in the 6* house, Rahu 
in the 7" and Saturn in the 8" house create Patihanta 
Yoga in a female horoscope and Patnihanta Yoga in 
a male horoscope. 

2. Mangalika Vichar should be done from the Lagna 
and Venus in the male's natal chart and from the 
Lagna and Moon in the female natal chart. 

3. lf the 7* lord is male in the natal chart of a female 
then there will be happy conjugal life 

4. If Janma Rasi of a female is the sign of exaltation of 
the 7" lord of a male natal chart then there will be 
happy conjugal life. 


CHAPTER-15 
Mangalik Dosh 


angalik/Kuja Dosha 

Misconception about the Mangalik Dosha is 
widespread in the society. Parents of a Mangali bride or 
groom become very scared and nonplussed and have 
sleepless nights to find right matches for their sons and 
daughters. It is very interesting to note that no reference 
about Mangal Dosha is found in any classical texts on 
astrology. Only results of placement of Mars in different 
houses are given there. The untrained and unskilled 
astrologers have misinterpreted the original Sanskrit Sloka 
on the subject and misuse for personal gain to the hilt. 


If Mars is posited in Lagna 12", 4", 7" or 8th house in 
a horoscope, the native is said to suffer from Mangalik 
Dosha or Kuja Dosha and is called Mangalik or Mangala. 
The following Sloka has been interpreted that if bride is 
mangalik and if she marries a non mangalik groom, 
death of her husband may occur and similarly if a 
mangalik groom marries a non mangalik bride, it will 
cause death to bride. "Lagne vyaye ch patale yamitre 
ch astame kuje Kanya hariti bhartaram bharta kanya 
harisyati" The above interpretation seems to be wrong 
because there are so many examples found in the society 
that Mangalik and non-mangalik couples enjoy their 
happy marital lives having children, wealth and good 


172 Analysis of Marriage through Astrology 


longevity. Mars is the significator of energy and strength 
and its position in the houses (1*, 4", 7, 8*, and 12th) 
related to marriage enhances the sexual potentiality of 
the native. If a groom of high sexual potentiality is 
married to a bride of low sexual strength, their conjugal 
lives will be highly disturbed and will be akin to death. 
That is why the marriage of a Mangalik bride with 
mangalik groom is considered to be best matching 
because both of them have equal sexual potentiality. So 
the Parents of prospective brides and grooms need not 
be scared and tense. They ought to get the horoscopes 
of their sons and daughters examined by qualified, well 
trained and skilled astrologers. 

Mangalik Dosha should be judged from (1) Lagna (2) 
Moon and (3) Venus. Lagna represents body, Moon 
represents mind and Venus represents sex and also karak 
of the7* house and woman. 


Some astrologers are of opinion that Mangalik Dosha 
should be judged in the male nativity from (1) Lagna 
and (2) Venus and in female nativity from (1) Lagna 
and (2) Moon. 


The Dosh is the strongest from Venus, little less strong 
from Moon and the least strong from Lagna. 


Mangalik Dosha is examined from the placement of Mars, 
the strongest malefic planet, in 1%, 4", 7", 8%, and 12" 
house. Some scholars suggest that Mangalik Dosha should 
also be judged from 2" house. 


I* house: From 1|* house, a house of physical fitness, 
Mars aspects 7* house, a house of marriage and sex, 
4" house, house of domestic peace and mental 
happiness and 8 house, a house of longevity and 
sexual organs, essential components for a happy 
marital life. Due to placement and aspects Mars 
damages the significations of the above houses. 


Chapter 15: Mangalik Dosh 173 


2™4 house: 24 house represents Kutumba and wealth of 
the native and longevity of spouse. Mars aspects the 
8" house, the 5° house a house of love and the 9" 
house, the house of destiny. Therefore, placement and 
aspect of Mars damages the significations of the above 
houses. 


4" house: Placement of Mars in the fourth house which 
signifies domestic happiness and mental peace 
damages it and also aspects 7” house from this house. 


7" house: The 7” house represents house of marriage or 
spouse and conjugal peace and happiness. Mars in 
7" damages its significations and also damages the 
significations of It and 2"? houses as these both 
houses are aspected by it from the 7th house. 
According to Phala Deepika, with Mars in the 7" 
house the native wanders on roads aimlessly and loses 
his wife. 

According to Saravali, the native's wife dies, he will 
‘be unhappy and leads a sinful life. 


s™ house: Eighth house represents longevity of the 
husband or the wife. lt is also the house of Mangalya, 
Soubhagya or Mangal surra of wife. The position of 
Mars has been condemned universally by all 
astrologers, because (1) it damages the longevity of 
the native or spouse (2) Accidents and injuries to the 
native may happen (3) one gets hindrance in all walks 
of life. 


12" house: 12* house represents Sayan Sukha or bed 
pleasure of the couple or their sexual enjoyments. So 
Mars' placement in the 12* house damages it and 
also its aspect on the 7* house from here creates 
problems in married life. 


174 Analysis of Marriage through Astrology 


Rectification or cancellation of Mangalik Dosha 
Under the following dispensation Kuja Dosha or 
Mangalika Dosha in a horoscope is cancelled. 


1. 


If there are Mangalika Doshas in the horoscopes of 
both bride and groom, the Kuja Dosha is cancelled. 


_ If Mars is placed in any of the 1“, 4%, 7, 8*, or 12 


houses in one horoscope and another malefic planet 
is found posited in the same house of another 
horoscope, the Mangalika Dosha is cancelled. 


. The bad effects of Mars is cancelled if Saturn is found 


placed in 1*, 4*, 7°,8" or 12* house of a nativity. 
Saturn or Mars must be in the same place of Mars in 
the other horoscope. 


. There would not be Dosha from Mars if Rahu is 


found placed in I“, 4, 7%, 8" or 12* houses. 


. There will be no Kuja Dosha in a horoscope if Mars 


is found placed in either in his own sign or in his 
exalted sign or in Upachaya houses being a 
vargottam. 


. There will be no Kuja Dosha if the ascendant is Aries, 


or Sagittarius is the 12 house or Scorpio is the 4° 
house or Capricorn is the 7" house or Cancer is the 
8* house. 


. There is no Kuja Dosha lf Mars and Jupiter are in 


conjunction or Mars and Moon are in conjunction or 
Moon is posited in angular houses (Kendras). 


_ lf Moon and Venus are in the 2™ house or Mars 


receives benefic aspect from Jupiter or Mars is 
conjoined with Rahu, the Kuja Dosha is cancelled. 


CHAPTER-16 
Important points to be examined 
before Settlement of Marriage 


1. Anapatya Yoga: 

i) A configuration wherein if the Jupiter and the lords 
of ascendant 7th house and 5% house are weak and 
afflicted the native shall have no issue. 

u) A configuration wherein if the malefics are placed in 
the 5" house from ascendant, Moon and Jupiter, the 
native shall be childless. 


2. Vish-Kanya 

It means a widow and a barren woman who violates 
the tradition of the family. A girl born under the 
following combinations of Tithi, Nakshatra and Var 
(week days) is called Visha Kanya. 


i) Var-Sunday, Tithi-2 and Nakshatra-Shatbhisaj or 
Ashlesha. 

ii) Var-Sunday, Tithi-12, Nakshatra-Krittika, Vishakha 
or Shatbhisaj. 

ili) Var-Tuesday, Tithi-7, Nakshatra-Ashalesha, Vishakha 
or Shatbhisaj. 

iv) Var-Tuesday, Tithi-12, Nakshatra-Shatbhisaj 

v) Var-Saturday, Tithi-2, Nakshatra-Ashalesha. 

vi) Var Saturday, Tithi-7, Nakshatra-Krittika. 

vii) Var-Saturday, Tithi-12, Nakshatra- Krittika. 


176 Analysis of Marriage through Astrology 


Phala Deepika says 

i) If malefic planets are found posited in the 4", 8* and 
12* houses or Venus is conjoined with or aspected 
by or hemmed between malefics, death of wife and 
financial loss are indicated. 

ii) If Mars, Sun and Saturn are found in the 4* or the 
8* house from the natal Venus, death of spouse is 
possible in a fire accident. 

iii) If Venus is neither conjoined with nor aspected by 
benefic planets, the wife will die of strangulation 
iv) If 7* lord is posited in the 5* house, the native shall 

not beget child and shall his wife. 

Jataka Parijata says 

i) If Mars is posited in the 2", 12*, 7 4", or 8” houses 
in a male horoscope, the native may lose his wife. 

ii) If Mars is found in the above places in a female 
horoscope, the woman may lose her husband. 

iii) If Mars is found either in the 8* house or in his 
debilitated sign or in enemy's houses or among malefic 
planets in a female horoscope, there is possibility of 
loss of her husband. 

iv) lf two malefics are found either in the 2°¢ or in the 
12* house in a male horoscope, destruction of wife is 
indicated. But if in the female horoscope the same 
planetary positions (Yoga) are found, the Dosha is 
cancelled and the couple will lead their lives happily 
with children and comforts. 

4. Consideration about ascendant 
While matching the horoscopes of the bride and the 
groom it is found that only Janma Nakshatras of theirs 
are taken into account. As the Sun represents soul, Moon 
represents mind and Lagna signifies body, therefore it is 
advisable that their Nakshatras should also be taken into 
account to match horoscopes. 


In olden days people used to adjust within themselves 
even though there were some problems in the family. 
But in present days such kind of adjustment is not found 


Chapter 16: Important points to be examined before Settlement of Marriage 177 


among the couples because they are mostly financial 
independent, mentally alert and highly educated. Every 
body has desires to lead his/her live in his/her own 
way and any kind of interference results in conjugal 
conflicts. Therefore, it is good to match the horoscopes 
of couples with reference to Nakshatras of the Sun as 
well as the Nakshatra of the Lagna to arrive at correct 
conclusion as far as possible. 

5. Muhurta 

There are 30 muhurtas in a sidereal day and 32 
muhurtas in a Savana day. The word muhurta means 
a period of 2 Ghatis. It also means small or little time 
One Ghati consists of 24 minutes; therefore one muhurta 
is of 48 minutes. But as per astrological calculation, the 
muhurta is the one which will come out after dividing 
the duration of day-time by 15. That is known as Diva 
Muhurta or day muhurta or diurnal muhurta of a 
particular day. Similarly if duration of night is divided 
by 15, the resultant period will be known as Nisha 
Muhurta or nocturnal muhurta or night muhurta. When 
duration of day and night are equal, period of muhurta 
will be of 48 minutes which will increase or decrease 
according to increase or decrease in the duration of day 
time. The same principle is applicable in the night 
muhurtas also. 


Names and lords of diurnal and nocturnal muhurtas 


Diurual Muhurta Lords Nocturnal Muhurta Lords 

1* Rudra Ardra 1" Girish Ardra 

2nd Ahi Ashalesha 2" Ajipada Purvabhadrapada 
3" Mitra Anuradha 30 Ahirbudhanya Uttarabhadrapada 
4" Pitra Magha 4” Pusha Revati 

5" Vasu Dhanistha 5" Aswi Ashwini 

6" Vara Purvashada 6th Yama Bharani 

Fe Mishwatleva Uttarashada 7” Agni Knittika 

8" Vidhi (Brahma) Abhijit 8" Vidhatru Rohini 


9'" Satamukhi Rohini 9th Chanda Mrigasira 


178 Analysis of Marriage through Astrology 


10" Puruhuta Vishakha 10" Aditi Punarvasu 
11" Vahini Jyestha 11" Jeeva Pushya 
12"" Naktanchara Moola 12' Vishnu Shravana 
13" Varuna Shatabhisaj 13" Yumigadyuti Hasta 

14' Aryama Uttaraphalgunu | 14" Tyastur Chitra 
15" Bhaga Purvaphalgunu | 15" Samdram Swati 


Muhurta has another definition. It is an auspicious time 
elected for performance of an event according to 
auspiciousness of Var, Tithi, Nakshatra, Karana, Yoga, 
Ayana, month, lagna and planetary positions. 


Moon plays a very important role in fixing an auspicious 
Muhurta for performing a particular event of life. Moon 
rules mind and all kind of psychological factors so it 
has acquired an eminent position in the Muhurta or 
electional astrology. For fixing a muhurta one should 
always bear in mind that there should be favourable 
connection between the Muhurta Chart and lagna chart 
of the native. Favourable connection increase the benefic 
results of auspicious Muhurta. A good and accurate 
Panchang (Ephemeris) is needed to fix an accurate and 
auspicious Muhurta. Most of the Panchang published in 
India based on Surya Sidhanta which has not been 
updated since a century with the results that the data 
in these Panchangs are found to be erratic. Therefore, 
Driksiddha Panchangs which are available in the market 
should be followed. A Panchang has five Angas (parts) 
hence the name Panchang (Panch + Anga). These five 
Angas or parts are |. Var, 2. Tithi, 3. Nakshatra, §. 
Karana and 5. Yoga. 


Var (week days) 

There are seven days in a week named after the seven 
planets viz. Sun, Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus 
and Saturn in accordance with certain astronomical 
considerations. The lord of the first hora of a day lends 
its name to the day. Following are the names and number 


Chapter 16: Important points to be examined before Settlement of Marriage 179 


of days. The Sun indicates Sunday-1, Moon Monday-2, 
Mars Tuesday -3, Mercury Wednesday-4, Jupiter 
Thursday-5, Venus Friday-6 and Saturn Saturday-7. 
Generally Mondays, Wednesdays, Thursdays and Fridays 
are considered auspicious and rest are inauspicious but 
in certain ceremony Saturdays are auspicious, in certain 
cases Sundays are auspicious for sowing or planting trees 
or foundation of house/town etc. as it is called Dhruba' 
(fixed) day and Tuesdays are also auspicious in some 
cases. 


Tithi 

It indicates distance between the Sun and Moon. When 
difference of 12° between the longitudes. of Moon and 
the Sun is completed then it is said to be completion of 
one Tithi or lunar day. At Amavashya longitudes of the 
Sun and Moon is same so difference of distance between 
them is zero. From here tithes are counted. The first 
difference of 12 degrees is called Pratipada. ge 13 degrees 
ie. from above 12 degrees up to 24 degrees is called 
dwitiya and.so on. Thus there are 30 Tithis in a lunar 
month whose names are as follows.1. Pratipada 2. 
Dwitiya 3. Tritiya 4. Chaturthi 5. Panchami 6. Shasthi 
7.Saptami 8. Astami 9. Navami 10. Dashami 1/1. 
Ekadashi 12. Dwadashi 13. Trayodashi 14. Chaturdashi 
15. Purnimma or Amavashya. A lunar month is divided 
into two divisions called Paksha. Thus the period from 
Pratipada to Purnima is called Shukla Paksha and the 
period from Krishna Pratipada to Amavashya is called 
Krishna Paksha. Our ancient Rishis and Saints have 
recognized auspicious and inauspicious Tithis. One 
Paksha is also called a fortnight. In Shukla Paksha there 
are 15 days and the 15* day is called Purnima (Full 
moon). Similarly there are 15 days in a Krishna Paksha 
and the 15* day in Krishna Paksha is called Amavashya 
(New moon). In Shukla Paksha from Pratipada to 
Panchami are inauspicious, from Shasti to Dashami are 
medium and from Ekadashi to Purnima is auspicious. 


180 Analysis of Marriage through Astrology 


Similarly in Krishna Paksha, from 1* to 5* tithes are 
auspicious, from 6 to 10* tithes are mrdium and from 
11* to Amavashya are inauspicious 


Method of determining Tithis 


Number of Tithis Names of Tithis Devata or deities of Tithis 


1 Pratipada Agni (fire) 

2 Dwitiya Brahma (ereator 

3 Tritiya Gouri 

4 Chaturdashi Ganesh (son of Parvati) 

5 Panchami Sarpa 

6 Shasti Kartikeya(son of lord Shiva & Parvati 
7 Saptami Sun 

8 Astami Lord Shiva (destructor) 

9 Navami Goddess Durga (Primeval Energy) 
10 Dashami ‘Yamaraj 

i] Ekadashi Vishwedeva 

12 Dwadashi Lord Vishnu (the protector) 

13 Treyodashi Kamadeva (god of love) 

14 Chaturdashi Lord Shiva 

15 Purnima Moon 

30 Amavashya Manes/Pitris 


To find a tithi or a lunar day, deduct the longitude of 
the Sun from that of Moon. If the difference is less than 
180 degrees, it is Shukla Paksha or bright half and if the 
difference is more than 180 degrees, it is Krishna Paksha 
or dark half. 


Now divide the difference of the longitudes of the Sun 
and Moon by 12. The quotient represents the number of 
Tithis already elapsed and the remainder indicates part 
of the running Tithi i.e. next to the elapsed Tithi. The 
followings are the names of Tithis. 


4, 6, 8, 9, 12 and 14 Tithis are called Paksha Randhra 
Tithis and therefore no auspicious works should be done 
on these Tithis. However in special or unavoidable 
circumstances, avoid first 8 Ghatis of Chaturthi, 9 Ghatis 


Chapter 16: Important points to be examined before Settlement of Marriage 187 


in Shasti, 14 Ghatis in Astami, 25 Ghatis in Navami, 10 
Ghatis in Dwadashi and 5 Ghatis in Chaturdashi. 


Tithis have been divided in to 5 groups namely 1. Nanda 

. Bhadra 3 Jaya 4. Rikta and 5. Purna. 

. Nanda: - Pratipada, Shasta and Ekadashi 

. Bhadra:-Dwitiya, Saptami and Dwadashi 

. Jaya: - Tritiya, Astami and Treyodashi. 

. Rikta: — Chaturthi, Navami and Chaturdashi 

. Purna: - Panchami, Dashami and Purnima or 
Amavashya 


ak WNr NY 


Siddhi Yogas 

Nanda Tithis fall on Fridays, Bhadra on Wednesdays, 
Jaya on Tuesday, Rikta on Saturdays and Purna on 
Thursdays, these are called Siddha Tithis and create 
Siddha Yogas. These are very auspicious. 

Similarly if Nanda Tithis fall on Sundays/Tuesdays, 
Bhadra on Mondays/ Friday, Jaya on Wednesdays, Rikta 
on Thursdays and Purna on Saturdays are the most 
inauspicious and therefore no auspicious events should 
be celebrated on these tithes or lunar days. 


Sunya Tithis (Void) 

In Shukla and Krishna Paksha both if Pratipada and 
Dwitiya in the month of Bhadrapada, Dwitiya and 
Tritiya in the month of Shravana, Dwadashi in the 
month of Vaishakha, Choutha (Chaturthi) and Panchami 
in the month of Pushya, Dashami and Ekadashi in the 
month of Ashwin, Saptami and Astami in the month of 
Margasirsa and Astami and Navami in the month of 
Chaitra are called Sunya tithes. These are inauspicious 
Tithis. 

According to some scholars the following Tithis are also 
considered Sunya Tithis. Krishna Panchami in the month 
of Kartika, Krishna Shasti in the month of Ashada, 
Krishna Chaturthi in the month of Phalguna, Krishna 
Chaturdashi in the month of Jyestha, Krishana 


182 Analysis of Marriage through Astrology 


Panchami in the month of Magha, are considered as 
Sunya Tithis and are avoidable for performance of any 
auspicious ceremony. 


Nakshatras 
There are twenty eight Nakshatras including Abhijit 
which are required in fixation of Muhurta 


Table of lords and deities of Nakshatras 


Nakshtra Planetary lord Deity 
1. Aswini Ketu Aswini Kumar 
2,Bharani Venus Yamaraj 
3. Krittika Sun Agni 
4, Rohini Moon Prajapati 
5. Mrigasira Mars Moon 
6. Ardra Rahu Rudra 
7. Punarvasu Jupiter Aditi 
8. Pushya * Saturn Jupiter 
9. Ashalesha Mercury Serpent 
10. Magha Ketu Manes/Pitras 
1]. Purvaphalguni Venus Bhaga(Sun) 
2. Uttarphaiguni Sun Aryaman (Sun) 
13. Hasta Moon Savita (Sun) 
4, Chitra Mars Vishwakarma (Swastha) 
15. Swati Rahu Vayu 
6. Vishakha Jupiter Indragni 
17. Anuradha Saturn Mitra (Sun) 
18. Jyestha Mercury Indra 
9. Moola Ketu Niruti 
20. Purvashada Venus Water 
21. Uttarashada Sun Vishwadeva 
22. Abhijit ** No lordship is given Brahma 
23. Shravana Moon Vishnu 
24. Dhanistha Mars Vasu 
25. Shatbhisaj Rahu Varun 
26. Purvabhadrapada Jupiter Ajapada (Sun) 
27. Uttarabhadrapada Saturn Abhirbudhanya 


28. Revati Mercury Pusa (Sun) 


Chapter 16: Lmportant points to be examined before Settlement of Marriage -[33 


Pran Pratistha of a deity is done on the tithi of which 
he is lord. 

* Pushya Nakshatra is considered most auspicious and 
it can neutralize the Dosha of an adverse combination. 
lt can also neutralize Dosha of a horoscope but not 
auspicious for marriage. Therefore it should be avoided 
in marriage 


** Abhijit Nakshatra is located between 276° 40' to 280° 
54 13" of the zodiac arc. It is also called Vega Star. 


According to requirement Nakshatras have been divided 
into several groups as follows 


Dhruba or Sthir Nakshatras 
Rohini, Uttaraphalguni, Uttarashada, Uttarabhadrapada. 
These are favourable for laying foundation of house/ 
village/town/cities, sowing operation, planting trees and 
things of permanent nature. 


Chara or movable Nakshatras 

Swati, Punarvasu, Shravana, Dhanistha, Shatbhisaj are 
chara Nakshatras and also Mondays are Chara days. So 
they are suitable and favourable for gardening and 
acquiring vehicles. 


Krura Nakshatras 

Purvaphalguni, Purvaashada, Purvabhadrapada, Bharani 
and Magha are Krura or Ugra Nakshatras and Tuesdays 
are Krura or Ugra day. They are suitable in setting fire 
in bricks chimney with the purpose of manufacturing 
bricks, starting manufacturing of weapons. 


Mixed or Mishra Nakshatras 

Vishakha and Krittika are mixed Nakshatras and 
Wednesdays are mixed day. These are suitable for 
celebrating a religious function or starting manufacturing 
of chemicals, setting fire in Yagya (sacrifice). 


184 Analysis of Marriage through Astrology 


Kshipra or Laghu Nakshatras 

Hasta, Ashwini, Pushya, Abhijit Nakshatras and 
Thursdays are Kshipra and are suitable for study of 
Shastras, starting of learning dance, music, arts , sports 
and wearing ornaments, administering medicines, 
starting industries and undertaking travels. 


Mridu or Maitras Nakshatras 

Mrigasira, Revati, Chitra, and Anuradha are mridu 
Nakshatras and Fridays are mridu days. These are 
suitable for starting or learning music, dance, fine arts, 
wearing of dresses, social works and decorations, 
performance of auspicious ceremony and sexual union 
of couple. 


Tikshada or Sharp Nakshatras 

Moola, Jyestha, Ardra, Ashalesha are Tikshada or sharp 
Naklshairas. These are favourable for incantation, 
invoking spirit for imprisonment, murder and separation 
of friends. 


Urdhwa, Adho and Tiryaka Nakshatras 

Ardra, Pushya, Shravana, Dhanistha, Shatabhisaj, 
Dhruba Nakshatras are called Urdhwa Nakshatras. 
These are favourable for construction of temple, 
monuments and planting of trees. 


Moola, Ashalesha, mixed Nakshatras, and Ugra 
Nakshatras are Adhomukhi Nakshtras and are suitable 
for digging well, pond and hand pump etc. 


Mridu Nakshatras, Hasta, Swati, Punarvasu, Jyestha, and 
Ashwini are Tiryaka Nakshatras. These are favourable 
for construction of road and bridge, learning driving 
and starting of journey. 


Chapter 16: important points to be examined before Settlement of Marriage 795 


Nakshatra Panchak 

The period beginning from the 3°? quarter of Dhanistha 
and ending with the last quarter of Revati is called 
Nakshatra Panchak and is not suitable for any kind of 
auspicious work. When these Nakshatras are ruling one 
should avoid journey towards south, repairing and 
renovation of house. 


Karana 

A Tithi of 12° is divided into two sections. Each section 
of 6° is called Karana. There are eleven Karanas, seven 
of which are variables and four are fixed. The names of 
the variable Karanas are 1. Baba, 2. Balav, 3. Kaulava 
4. Taitil 5. Gara 6. Vanijya 7. Visthi (Bhadra). The names 
of fixed Karanas are 1. Shakuni 2.Chatuspada 3. Nag 4. 
Kintughna. All the fixed Karana and Visthi Karanas are 
inauspicious and therefore no auspicious events should 
be performed during the period of these Karans. 


Yogas (Luni-solar) 

lf the summation of longitudes of Sun and Moon is 
divided by 13degrees and 20 minutes, the quotient 
indicates elapsed number of Yoga and remainder 
indicates the next of the elapsed Yoga ie. part of the 
running Yoga. 


There are 27 Yogas which are as follows 

1. Vishakumbha, 2. Priti, 3. Ayushman, 4. Saubhagya, 
5. Shobhan, 6. Atiganda, 7. Sukarma, 8. Dhruti, 9. Shool, 
10. Ganda, 11. Vriddhi, 12. Dhruba, 13. Vyaghata, 14. 
Harshan, 15. Vajra, 16. Siddhi, 17. Vyatipata, 18. 
Variyan, 19. Paridha, 20. Shiva, 21. Siddha, 22. Shadhya, 
23. Shubha, 24. Shukla, 25. Brahma, 26. Indra, 27. 
Vaidhriti. 

These are benefic or malefic according to the meaning 
of their names. 


CHAPTER-17 
Muhurta of Marriage 


Ma is the most important event in the life of 
a person. In Hindu society it is considered as one 
of the 16 Sansakaras (sacraments). That is why marriage 
has a special place in the civilized world. In western 
society it is considered as a contract between husband 
and wife. If the contract is broken, the marriage is 
broken. But in our Hindu society marriage is treated as 
a sacred or religious sacrament which motivates the 
couple to move in the righteous path in the life. It also 
guarantees the equality of the partner in respect of 
Dharma (right conduct), Artha (finance), Kama (sex) 
and Moksha (final salvation). One who becomes a 
Brahmachari by taking oath in the Upanayan ceremony 
may get married by taking permission from his preceptor 
or Guru and enter into family life or Grihasta Ashrama. 
The greatness of Grihasta Ashrama has been found in 
many of our ancient books. One has to understand the 
innate meaning if the Samkalpa taken by the bride and 
groom during the course of performance of marriage 
rituals. To follow the Dharma of Grihasta Ashram for 
its success, the help and cooperation of wife are 
necessary. It also gives the meaning that for Dharma, 
Children and wealth such help from the wife is 
necessary. Sruti says that perfection in the life of a couple 
can be achieved only after betting children. 


Chapter 17: Muhurta of Marriage 187 


Upanishad says as "“acharyah priyam dhana mahrutya 
praja tantum mavyavatsetsi". It means that after 
completion of education in Brahmacharya Ashrama, one 
has to pay some amount to his Guru as a token of 
gratitude and take his permission to enter into married 
life or Grihasta Ashram. To keep up the flow of 
generations in general and linage'of his family in 
particular in tact one has to marry and beget children. 
As per our Shastra three kinds of indebtedness (hrina) 
come with the birth of a person ie. Matri Hrina, Pitri 
Hrina and Guru Hrina. One of them, Pitri Hrina can be 
liquidated or repaid by begetting child. That is why the 
marriage institution of Hindu has such prominence in 
the society. 


When the question of marriage of a bride and a groom 
is considered, there are various matters which command 
our attention before its fixation. Most important of them 
are |. Physical fitness 2. Mental qualities 3. Sexual 
compatibility 4.Heredity and 5. Social and economic 
status 6. Child bearing capacity of bride 7. Child 
begetting capacity of groom. 


In the modern time, the element of sex has acquired 
such an eminent position in fixation of marriage that 
important factors like social and psychological are 
practically ignored. The Hindu Shastra has fixed the 
maximum and minimum age of bride and groom. It 
does not permit marriage in the same Gotra, perhaps 
because of dysgenic influence of off-spring. It also does 
not permit inter-racial, intercommunal, and inter-religious 
marriages because in such marriages there are cultural 
differences. But now our government has enacted many 
laws to protect such inter-caste, inter-religious and inter 
communal marriages. 


188 Analysis of Marriage through Astrology 


Kind of marriage 

There are eight kinds of marriage.1. Brahma 2. Daiva 3. 
Arsa 4. Prajapatya 5. Asur 6. Gandharva 7. Rakshasa 8. 
Paichasa. Out of the above eight kinds the 8" Paichasa 
marriage is considered as Adhama or the worst kind of 
marriage. The auspicious muhurta is required for first 
four kinds of marriage but it is not required for the 
remaining marriages. 

Vivah Kaala 

Marriage of the bridegroom should be done in odd years 
from his birth and that of the bride should be done in 
even years from her birth. 


Muhurta is the most important moment for performance 
of engagement ceremony of bride or bridegroom or 
solemnization of marriage. Therefore utmost care should 
be taken in fixing the muhurta of various ceremonies in 
respect of marriage. 


Engagement of bride 

Having been satisfied in all respect, the relatives of 
bridegroom give words to the relatives of bride that the 
bride is suitable and acceptable to them (relatives of 
groom) and there is no need to make any further search 
for other match for her now. After these words the 
relatives of groom will offer flowers, fruits, clothes and 
jewels to the bride and thus confirm choosing the girl as 
bride for the groom. The engagement ceremony is 
performed in the Nakshatras of Uttarashada, Swati, 
Shravana,Purvaphalguni, Purvashada, Purvabhadrapada, 
Anuradha, Dhanistha, Krittika, or in the Nakshatras of 
marriage on all lagna (auspicious) days except Tuesday, 
on all Tithis except Rikta Tithis, and in an auspicious 
ascendant. At the time of engagement of the bride, all 
the five parts of the Panchang should be auspicious and 
Moon should be unafflicted, strong well-placed and 
favourable. 


Chapter 17: Muhurta of Marriage 189 


Engagement of bridegroom 

The Brahmin (Purohit) or own brother of the bride should 
perform the engagement ceremony of groom on an 
auspicious day and Tithi, offering clothes and 
Yagyopavita (Sacred thread) to the groom along with 
the sound of a song and musical instruments in the 
Nakshatra of three Purvas, three uttaras, Rohini and 
Krittika. Thus engagement of bridegroom is confirmed. 


Marriage ceremony 

An auspicious muhurta can rectify many doshas or 
defects in the horoscopes of the bride and the groom. It 
is, therefore, necessary to select a very auspicious 
muhurta for performance of rituals of marriage. In a 
muhurta the following matters are required to be 
examined whether they are auspicious for marriage 
ceremony or not. They are |. Months 2. Vars (days) 3. 
Tithis 4. Nakshtra 5. Karana 6. Yoga 7. Tara 8. Graha 
Suddhi or Strength of the Sun, Moon and Jupiter 9. 
Position of Venus and Jupiter 10. Lagna (ascendant). 


Months: - Saur Maasas or solar months are regarded as 
the most auspicious for marriage ceremony but 
application of lunar months for auspicious deeds is 
rampant in our society. Lunar months of Magha, 
Phalgun, Vaishakh, and Jyesth months are the best for 
marriage. Shravan, Ashwin, and Margasirsa are 
ordinarily favourable. Chaitra, Ashada, Bhadrapada, 
Kartika and Pousha are not suitable or auspicious for 
marriage. But some scholars are of the opinion that 
marriage may be celebrated in the month of  Kartika, 
Pausha and Chaitra provided the Sun transits Scorpio 
(Vrishchika), Capricorn (Makar Rasi) and Aries (Mesh 
Rasi) respectively because Kartika in lunar month 
becomes Margasirsa in Saur Maasa, Pausa of lunar 
month becomes Magha in Saur Maasa and Chaitra of 
lunar month becomes Baishakha of solar month. Adhika 
(Mala) Maasa is not favourable for marriage. 


190 Analysis of Marriage through Astrology 


If both the bride and the bridegroom are the eldest of 
their respective parents then their marriage will not be 
held in the month of Jyestha. It is also not proper to 
celebrate their marriage in their Janma Maasa, Janma 
Nakshatra and Janma Tithi. 


Note: - If the first conception is any how destroyed, 
aborted or miscarried then according to the Shastras the 
issue born of the second conception will not be regarded 
as the eldest progeny, although for practical purpose 
he/she is the eldest progeny. 


Weekdays or Var 

As per Uttara Kalamrita of Kalidas, Monday, 
Wednesday, Thursday and Friday are considered as the 
most auspicigus days. Saturday and Sunday are average 
or medium and Tuesday is an inauspicious day. 


Lunar day or Tithi 

Auspicious Tithis for marriage are dwitiya, tritiya, 
panchami, saptami, dasami either in Shukla or Krishna 
Paksha. In Shukla Paksha even Ekadasi, Dwadasi, 
Trayodasi and Purnima are also suitable for marriage 
but some scholars do not consider Ekadasi Dwadasi and 
Purnima as suitable for marriage. However practice 
prevalent in the society should be followed. 


Nakshatra or Stars 

As per Muhurta Chintamani, the performance of 
marriage rituals are auspicious in the following Vedha 
Rahit (without Vedha) Nakshatras of Margasirsa, Hasta, 
Moola, Anuradha, Magha, Rohini, Revati, 
Uttaraphalguni, Uttarashada, Uttarbhadrapada, Swati 
on all Tithis except Rikta and Amavasya Tithis. 


Abhijit Nakshatra 
The 4" Charan of Uttarashada and the first 15" part f 
Shravana Nakshatra added together is the span of Abhijit 


Chapter 17: Muhurta of Marriage 191 


Nakshatra which is considered as an auspicious 
Naksha.tra. The span of Abhijit Nakshatra is from 276° 
40' to 280° 54' 13". It is ruled by Brahma. It is also 
called Vega Star. 


Pancha Shalaka Vedha in Marriage 

The position of a Graha in any of the pairs of the 
Nakshatra Rohini-Abhijit, Bharani -Anuradha, 
Uttarashada-Mrigasira, Shravana- Magha, Hasta- 
Uttarbhadrapada, Swati- Shatabhisaj, Moola- Punarvasu, 
Uttaraphalguni-Revati creates Vedha ie. if there is a 
planet in any Nakshatra of a pair then other Nakshatra 
of the pair is said to be in Vedha. The presence of a 
planet in these pairs of Nakshatras creates mutual Vedha 
in the 4-18 charan and the 3'4-2"4 charan of the 
Nakshatras ie. there is the Vedha of the 4™ Charan 
with the 1° Charan and the 3" Charan with the 2” 
Charan. 

Panch Shalakha Chakra 

From the speculum mentioned above we should examine 
that there should not be any planet in the Nakshatra 


2 
1, Rohini Mrigasira Ardra Punarvasu Pushya Ra x 
®%,, 42 Pe 


Aswini Purva 


Revati 


Uttara 


J.Bhadra Hasta 


>, Bhadra Chitra 


hatabhisa Swati 


b. 
Cy %, 

oe : Vy “ag, 
oe Abhjit U.Ashada P.Ahada Mool Jyestha Ye, 


os : 4s 


192 Analysis of Marriage through Astrology 


opposite to the Nakshatra in which marriage is settled 
to be performed. If there is no planet in the opposite 
Nakshatra then the muhurta is considered to be 
auspicious and is acceptable for performance of 
marriage. But if there is a planet in the Nakshatra 
opposite to the Nakshatra of marriage day then it is 
said that the muhurta Nakshatra is in Vedha and should, 
therefore, be considered inauspicious and hence rejected. 
For example suppose it is decided to celebrate the 
marriage ceremony in Magha Nakshatra but if there is 
a planet in Shravana Nakshtra opposite to Magha in 
the above speculum then it is said that Magha is in 
Vedha and therefore it should be rejected. If there is no 
planet in Shravana then it is considered to be auspicious 
and should be accepted for marriage ceremony. 


If the Vedha is created by a benefic planet, only that 
Charan of the Nakshatra in which Vedha is created 
should be rejected. In case Vedha is by a malefic planet, 
then the whole Nakshatra should be rejected as 
inauspicious for marriage muhurta lagna. 


The Nakshatra Vedha becomes insignificant in the 
presence of the following combinations in the muhurta 
lagna chart. 

1. Marriage Muhurta Lagna is occupied by benefic 
planets. 

2. If the marriage muhurta ascendant lord is posited in 
the 11" house from the Lagna and is conjoined with 
or aspected by benefic planets. 

3. If the marriage is celebrated in the Kaala Hora of a 
benefic Planet. . 

4. If the Moon is powerful at the time of marriage 
celebration. 


Karana 
All the four fixed karanas i.e. Shakuni, Chatuspada, Nag 
and Kindughna are malefic. Visthi, one of seven variable 


Chapter 17: Muburta of Marriage 193 


karanas, is malefic. So no marriage should be performed 
in these Karanas. Visthi is also known as Bhadra. 


Yoga 

There are 27 Luni-solar Yogas. Marriage should be 
celebrated in benefic Yogas namely Priti, Ayushman, 
Saubhagya, Sobhan, Sukarma, Siddhi, Siva, Siddha, 
Sadhya, Shubha, Shukla, Brahma and Indra. 


Tarabala or Tarasuddhi (Strength of Nakshatra of 
Muhurta day) 

Count the number of the Nakshatra of Muhurta day 
from the Janma Nakshatra of the bride or the 
bridegroom. The result is divided by 9. If the remainder 
is 3 or 5 or 7 for the bride and the bridegroom both 
then muhurta does not acquire Tarabala and hence 
should be rejected. If from one it acquires tarabala and 
from another it does not then Muhurta is of medium 
class. If the above remainders are not found from the 
bride and the bridegroom nakshatra then it will be 
considered the best and should be accepted for Marriage 
Muhurta. 


Guru Suddhi, Chandra Suddhi and Ravi Suddhi 
Guru Suddhi is examined for bride; Ravi Suddhi is for 
bridegroom and Chandra Suddhi for both bride and 
bridegroom. If Guru (Jupiter) is posited in 2™, or 5%, or 
7°, or 9" or 11" from the muhurta Lagna or from natal 
Moon of bride then it is called Guru Suddhi and is 
auspicious for bride. If the Sun is posited in 3", 6", 10" 
or 11™ house from the Muhurta Lagna or from natal 
Moon of bridegroom, it is called Ravi Suddhi and is 
auspicious for bridegroom. If Moon is posited in |“, 3™, 
6%, 74 10th or 11'* house from Muhurta Lagna or from 
Natal moon then it is called Chandra Suddhi and is 
auspicious for both bride and bride groom. 


194 Analysis of Marriage through Astrology 


Marriage Lagna 

Auspicious and favourable Lagnas for marriage are 
Taurus, Gemini, Cancer, Virgo, Libra, Sagittarius and 
Pisces. 


Some more principles 


| 


If there is no planet in the 7" house from the Lagna 


of marriage or at least no malefic planet should be in 
the 7 house, it is called Jamitra Suddhi. 


. There should be benefic planets in Kendra (1, 4, 7 


and 10) and Kona (1, 5, 9 ) and malefic planets in 
the Upachaya houses (3, 6, 10 and 11) 

Strength of Nakshatras of both the bride and the 
groom should be examined and must be ensured that 
their Nakshatras are not Nidhan Tara. 

Strength of Moon of both the bride and the 
bridegroom should be examined at the time of 
marriage Lagna. 


. In deciding the characteristics and doshas of the 


marriage muhurta, one has to ensure that the numbers 
of dosha aspects are lesser than that of good aspects. 
This is generally followed at the time of selection of 
marriage muhurta because it is not possible to find 
all the benefic aspects at the time of muhurta. 


. All doshas are expelled by Abhijit muhurta as "Abhijit 


sarva doshaghna" is the dictum of astrology. The vg 
lagna from the Sunrise is called Abhijit Muhurta. 
Godhulika Lagna (ascendant at the time of Sunset- 
dusk) has the same property. However, Muhurta 
Darpana says that this muhurta is important for the 
people residing in the west and in Kalinga area. 


. If Venus is in angular houses (Kendras), it will expel 


5,000 doshas (bad affects), and if Mercury is in 
Kendras, it will drive out 500 doshas and Jupiter in 
Kendras will expel 1, 00,000 doshas. If Mercury, Venus 
and Jupiter all are in Kendras, then all kinds of doshas 
(Bad affects) of Lagna will be removed and it will 
give beneficial results. 


Chapter 17: Muhurta of Marriage 195 


8. 


Marriage of the bride should be performed in the 
even years of her birth and that of the bridegroom in 
the odd years. 


. Jupiter and Venus are considered to be the most 


auspicious planets. Therefore these benefic planets 
should not be combust at the time of marriage 
ceremony. 


10.Marriage muhurta should be free from three kinds of 


Gandanta Doshas i. Nakshatra Gandanta, Lagna 
gandanta and Tithi gandanta. The time of the last 
two ghatis (48 minutes) of Nakshatras of Jyestha, 
Rewati and Ashlesha and first two ghatis of Nakshtra 
of Moola, Ashwini and Magha are called Nakshatra 
Gandanta. The time of the last % ghati (12 minutes) 
of the ascendant of Cancer, Scorpio, and Pisces and 
first 4% ghati of Leo, Sagittarius and Aries are called 
Lagna Gandanta. Similarly the time of the last one 
ghati of the Purna Tithis (5, 10, and 15) and the first 
one ghati of Nanda Tithis (1, 6, 11) are called Tithi 
Gandanta. All these three Gandantas are considered 
to be inauspicious and therefore should be rejected at 
the time of performing any auspicious deeds. 

The Dosha of Tithi Gandanta is removed if Moon is 
powerful and endowed with strength. The Dosha of 
Lagna Gandanta is removed if Jupiter is powerful. 
Sage Vashishtha says that the Abhijit Nakshtra 
cancels all kinds of Gandanta Doshas. 


11. Marriage Muhurta Lagna should be free from Kartari 


Yoga. If a malefic planet, being direct, is posited in 
the 12 house from the ascendant of marriage and 
another malefic planet being retrograde, is posited 
in the 2°? house from this marriage Lagna, it is 
called Kartari Dosha. At the time of marriage 
ascendant Moon should also be free from Kartari 
Dosha. Not only ascendant Mom but also 5%, 7" 
and 9" houses from marriage ascendant should be 
free from Kartari dosha. 


196 


Analysis of Marriage through Astrology 


12. The marriage ascendant is inauspicious if it is the 8* 


13. 


sign from the natal ascendant or natal Moon of the 
bride or the bridegroom. Such marriage Lagna 
should be rejected. But such Dosha is cancelled if 
the marriage Lagna Lord is also the lord of natal 
ascendant or the sign of the natal Moon or is a 
friend of the lord of the Janma Lagna or Janma 
Rashi. 

Some astrologers are of the opinion that if the 8" 
lord occupies a Kendra and is aspected by benefic 
planets or the 8" lord is in his own Navamsa or in 
the Navamsa of a benefic planet who is at his deep 
exaltation point, or in his own sign or in the sign of 
his friend, then the Dosha of being the 8" sign from 
marriage muhurta Lagna is cancelled. 

The Visha ghatis of the Nakshtras are the 4 ghatis 
after the 30 ghati of the Nakshatra of Rewati, 
Punarvasu, Krittika, Magha; after the 40" ghatis of 
Rohini, after the 32nd ghatis of Ashlesha; after the 
50" ghati of Ashwini; after the 18'" ghati of 
Uttaraphalguni and Shatabhisa; after the 20% ghati 
of Purvaphalguni, Chitra, Uttarashada, and Pushya; 
after the 14 ghati of Vishakha, Swati, Mrigasira, 
and Jyestha; after the 21 Ghati of Ardra, and Hasta; 
after the 16‘ ghati of Purvashada; after the 24” 
ghati of Uttarbhadrapada, Purvabhadrapada and 
Bharani; after the 10‘ ghati of Anuradha, Dhanistha 
and Shravana; after the 56” ghati of Moola are the 
Visha ghatis of the Nakshatras. These are 
inauspicious ghatis and therefore should be rejected 
for marriage muhurta. Similarly Visha Ghatis of 
Vaar and Tithis should also be rejected. 


14. The Nakshatra of the bridegroom counted from that 


of the bride should be the 4%, 7", 10%, 13", 16%, 
19", 2274 or 25". This promotes well being and 
longevity of the couple. It is also called Mahendra 
Koota. 


Chapter 17: Muhurta of Marriage 197 


15. 


The bridegroom's Nakshatra should be preferably 
beyond the 9th from that of the bride's Nakshatra. 
According to some astrologers the distance should 
be more than 7 Nakshatras. 

Inauspicious Muhurtas for marriage are Aryam 
(Uttarphalguni) on Sunday, Brahma and Raksha 
(Rohini and Moola) on Monday, Vahini and Pitri 
(Krittika and Magha) on Tuesday, Abhijit on 
Wednesday, Toya and Raksha (Purvashada and 
Moola) on Thursday, Brahma and Pitri (Rohini and 
Magha) on Friday and Isha and Sarpa (Ardra and 
Ashalesha) on Saturday, Therefore, these muhurtas 
should be rejected at the time of marriage. 


. Laata Dosha in marriage. The word Laata means 


hitting with leg. The Nakshatras which are subjected 
to Laata Dosha are considered inauspicious and 
should be rejected for marriage muhurta.The Planets 
Mercury, full Moon, and Venus hit with their legs 
the Nakshatras lying at 7, 22"? and 5" places 
counted backwards from the Nakshatras in which 
they (Planets) are posited. Similarly Sun, Saturn, 
Jupiter, Mars and Rahu hit the Nakshatras placed 
at 12, 8, 6", 3 and 9" counted forwards from 
the Nakshatras in which they are tenanted, 


17. Paata Dosha in marriage. The Nakashtras which 


18. 


are lying at the end of the Yogas of Harshana, 
Vaidhriti, Sadhya, Vyatipata, Ganda and Shoola are 
subjected to Paata Dosha and hence become 
inauspicious and therefore should be rejected for 
marriage muhurta. 

Jamitra Dosha. If planet/ planets are posited in the 
7" house from the marriage Lagna or marriage 
Moon, the Lagna is considered to be suffered from 
Jamitra Dosha. And, therefore, such Lagna should 
be rejected for marriage. Jamitra Dosha is also 
created when a planet is posited in the 55" 
Navamsa counted from the ascendant or the moon. 
The Jamitra Dosha is cancelled if the planet posited 


198 Analysis of Marriage through Astrology 


in the 7 house from the Lagna or the Moon is 
aspected by benefic planets. Further, this Dosha is 
also cancelled if the Moon is at her deep exaltation 
point, or posited in her own sign, or posited in her 
friend's sign or in the Shadavargas of benefic planets 

19. Dasha Yoga Dosha. Add the numbers of Nakshatras 
in which Sun and Moon are posited and divide the 
sum by 27. If the remainder is any of the following 
number 0/1/4/6/10/11/15/18/19/20 then the 
marriage day is considered to be suffering from 
Dasha Dosha and should be rejected. 

20. Baanapanchakam or Baana Doshas. These are very 
popular in north India .There are five kinds of 
Baanapanchaka or Baana Doshas which are 
inauspicious and it must be ensured that the 
muhurta is free from these doshas. At the time of 
marriage lagna, keep the elapsed degree of the Sun 
in five places and add 6, 3, 1, 8, 4 to each place 
and divide the results by 9. If the remainder is 5 in 
each case then it is known respectively as Roga , 
Agni, Nripa, Chora and Mrityu Baana. For the 
purpose of marriage Muhurta, Mrityu Baana must 
be examined and if it is found at the time of the 
marriage muhurta then it must be rejected. 

In south India it is known as Panchaka Rahitam. 
For calculation take the number of the ascendant of 
the Muhurta and add with the number of the 
particular Tithis and divide the sum by 9. If the 
remainder is 1 it is called Mrityu Panchaka, if 2 
Agni Panchaka, 4 is Raja Panchaka, 6 is Chora 
Panchaka and 8 is Roga Panchaka. These are 
inauspicious for muhurta. If the remainder is 3, 5, 
7 or 9 it is considered very auspicious muhurta. For 
marriage muhurta Mrityu Panchaka must be 
examined and rejected at the time of marriage. This 
is the method of Muhurta Martanda. There is 
another method of calculation of Panchaka Rahitam. 
The number of Tithi, Vaar, Nakshatra and Lagna 


Chapter 17: Muhurta of Marriage 199 


from should be added together and the sum is 
divided by 9. Rests are the same as above. 

21. Removal or cancellation of Baana Dosha. According 
to difference of time, the Chora Baana and Roga 
Baana should be rejected in Night, the Agni Baana 
and Raja Baana should be rejected in the day and 
Mrityu Baana should be rejected in the morning 
and evening Sandhyas. 

21.Consideration of Navamsa in the marriage ascendant. 
If the Navamsa lord of the marriage muhurta is 
posited in the ascendant or in the Navamsa sign or 
aspects them, it is very auspicious for the bridegroom. 
And if the lord of the 7* house in Navamsa charts 
aspects the 7" Navamsa ie. his own Navamsa or 
posited in his own Navamsa, it is auspicious for the 
bride. 

22. Ekavimsati Mahadoshas (21 great defects). There are 
21 mahadoshas which need to be considered in 
fixing a muhurta. These doshas are 1. Panchanga 
Suddhi Dosha 2. Surya Sankarman Dosha 3. Kartari 
Dosha 4. Shastasta Ripugata Chandra Dosha 
5.Udaya Asta Dosha 6.Dur-muhurta Dosha 7. 
Gandantara Dosha 8. Brigu Shasa Dosha (Venus in 
6") 9. Kuja Astam Dosha 10.Dampatya Asta Dosha 
11.Rasi Visha Ghatika Dosha 12.Ku-navamsa Dosha 
13.Vaara Dosha 14.Kharjoor Samanghrika (Ekargala) 
Dosha 15. Grahanotpata Dosha 16. Krura Vidha 
Nakshtra Dosha 17. Krura Graha Vidha Dosha 18. 
Akala Garjita Vristi dosha 19.Mahapata Dosha 20. 
Vaidhriti Dosha 21. Kroora Graha Dosha. These are 
21 great defects which need to be avoided at the 
time of fixing a muhurta. 

Note:- It is not possible to find, on a particular day, all 

the points discussed above favourable in fixing an 

auspicious muhurta. Therefore, according to an 

astrological dictum "gunabahulya dosha swalpa" a 

muhurta should be fixed when numbers of good points 

are more than that of evil points. 


CHAPTER-18 
Badhu Pravesh 
(Entrance of the bride) 


[: is most important that the newly wedded bride 
should enter the home of her groom, for the first time 
after the marriage at an auspicious muhurta (time). It is 
auspicious if a bride enters the home of her husband for 
the first time after marriage on even days namely 2nd/ 
Ath/6th/8th/10th/12th/14" day or on the- odd days 
viz 5th/7th/9"" day within 16 days from the day of her 
marriage. 


If due to any reason coming in of the bride within 16 
days after the marriage is not possible, it is considered 
auspicious within one month on odd days ie.17/19/ 


21/23/25/27/29" day. 


If it is also not possible for coming in within one month, 
it is auspicious to enter the home of her husband after 
one month on odd months within one year after the 
marriage. 


In case it is not possible within one year then enter the 
house on odd years during five years after the marriage 


If the coming in of the bride to her husband's home 
exceeds five years then there is no bar and coming in 
may be at any time according to convenience. 


Chapter 18: Badhu Pravesh (Entrance of the bride) 2C1 


It should be noted that coming in of a wedded bride to 
her husband's home for the first time after the marriage 
is really a part of marriage. According to Muhurta 
Martanda it is the time of the meeting of the bride with 
her husband. Therefore, emphasis should be given for 
auspicious time of entrance. 


Auspicious Vaar, Tithis, and Nakshatras for the first 
time coming in to her husband's home 


Vaar (week day):- All days except Tuesdays and 
Sundays 


Auspicious Tithis: — All Tithis except Rikta Tithis (4/ 
9/14). 


Nakshatras: — Dhruwa Nakshatras (Uttarphalguni, 
Uttarashada, Uttarbhadrapada and Rohini), Kshipra 
Nakshatras (Hasta, Ashwini and Pushya), Mridu 
Nakshatras (Mrigasira, Rewati, Chitra and Anuradha), 
Shravana, Dhanistha, Magha, Moola and Swati. 


Special rules for the living of the bride during the 
first year of her marriage. If the bride lives in her 
husband's home in the month of Jyestha during the first 
year after marriage, she will destroy the elder brother of 
her husband; if she lives in the Adhi (mala) Maasa 
(month), she will destroy her husband; in the first 
Ashada maasa she will destroy her mother-in-law; In 
the first Pausha Maasa she will destroy her father-in- 
law and in the first Kshaya maasa she will destroy 
herself. If she lives in her father's home in the month of 
chaitra maasa, she will destroy her father. If the bride 
does not have Jetha (husbnad's elder brother), father-in- 
law, mother-in-law and father then there will not be 
occurrence of the above mentioned Doshas ie. there is 
no restriction on bride for her living in the house of her 
husband or her father. 


202 Analysis of Marriage through Astrology 


Dwiragmana: - The bride's going to her husband's house 
for the second time after marriage is called Dwiragmana. 
The bride should go to her husband's house second time 
in the odd year 

(1) When the Sun is in Aquarius, Aries or Scorpio 

(2) When the Sun and Jupiter are in auspicious houses 
from the sign Virgo. 

(3) On the auspicious days namely Thursdays, Fridays, 
Wednesdays and Mondays. 

(4) In the auspicious ascendants of Gemini, Pisces, Virgo, 
Libra, and Taurus. 

(5) In the Nakshatras of Laghu (Hasta, Ashwini, and 
Pushya) Dhruba (Uttaraphalguni, Uttarashada, 
Uttarabhadrapada, and Rohini) Chara or moveable 
(Swati, Punarvasu, Shravana, Dhanistha, and 
Shatabhisaj) Mridu or delicate (Mrigasira, Rewati, 
Chitra and Anuradha) and Moola 


Importance of Venus on the bride's second time going 
to her husband's house. At the time of commencement 
of journey if Venus is either in front or on the right side 
then newly wedded women, pregnant women and 
women with newly delivered child should not go to her 
husband's house because it causes sterility to newly 
wedded women, abortion to pregnant women and death 
to the newly born child on taking the first journey. 


Note:- When the longitudes(Spasta) of Venus is less than 
that the Sun then Venus rises in the East. For the persons 
taking journey towards East or towards North Venus is 
in the front or on the right side and therefore, journey 
towards East and North should be avoided. Similarly if 
the longitudes of Venus are more than that of the Sun 
then Venus rises in the West and therefore, journey 
towards West and South should be avoided as Venus is 
on the front and right side respectively. 


CHAPTER-19 
Santan or Child 


egetting child is the most important factor of 

marriage. The lives of the couple become miserable 
if they do not have any child. Therefore, it is most 
essential to examine the horoscopes of a couple to see 
whether they are blessed with child or not. The 5" house 
signifies children (Santan), emotion, intelligence, Ista Dev, 
Purvapunya etc. Santan or child is the main matter of 
this Bhava and hence it is also called Santanbhava. In 
analyzing the 5“ Bhava due consideration must be given 
to the following most important factors. 
A. (1) 5th houses from Lagna, Moon and Jupiter 

(2) 5" lords from Lagna, Moon and Jupiter 

(3) Jupiter, the natural Santan Karaka 


B. These are secondary considerations i.e., (1) Planets 
posited in or aspecting the 5‘" house (2) Planets associated 
with the 5" lord and Jupiter by way of conjunction or 
aspects (3) Planets forming various Yogas pertaining to 
the 5" house. 


C. These are tertiary considerations (1) Navamsa Chart 
(2) Saptamsa Chart (3) Calculation of Beeja/ Kshetra 
Sphuta 4) Calculation of Santan Tithis (5) 9th house 
and 9" lord as it is 5" from 5" (6) 11" house and 11" 
lord as it is 5" from 7" house (7) Dasa/antardasa of 
appropriate planets. (8) transits of appropriate Planets. 


204 Analysis of Marriage through Astrology 


Factors to be examined in a nativity for birth of a 

child 

a) The 5" house and the 5™ lord are conjoined with 
benefic planets. 

b) The 5™ house and the 5" lord are aspected by benefic 
planets. 

c) Jupiter is conjoined with or aspected by benefic 
planets. 

d) The 5" house is constituted by benefic signs excepting 
barren signs. 

e) The 5" lord and Jupiter should be powerful, strong 
and well placed. 

f) Jupiter as the 5" lord should be aspected by powerful 
Lagna lord. 

g) The 5" lord and Jupiter should be in Vaisheshikamsa 
(in ten benefic Vargas). 

h) The 5" Jord and Lagna lord are associated to each 
other by way of conjuction, aspects and exchange 
of houses. 

i) The Lagna lord and the 5" lord are posited in 
Kendras and the 2™ house and the 2™ lord are 
powerful. 

() Examine if Navamsa lord of the 5" lord is powerful 
and well placed in the Lagna Kundali. 

k) Examine if the Lagna lord and the 9" lord are placed 
in the 7" house and the 2™ lord in the Lagna. 

1) Examine if Navamsa lord of the 7 house is aspected 
by Lagna lord, the 9" lord or the 2™ lord in Lagna 
Kundali. 

m) The 1!" house and the 11" lord are powerful and 
receive benefic influences. 

n) Beeja Sphuta of male and Kshetra Sphute of female 
are favourable. 

0) Santan Tithis of the couple are favourable. 


f the above factors are powerful and favourable, the 
couple must beget children otherwise no chance of 
begetting children. 


Chapter 19: Santan or Child 205 


Beeja/Kshetra Sphutes: - It is a unique method given in 
Vedic Astrology which determines the capability for a 
couple to beget children. For male Beeja Sphute is 
determined and for female Kshetra Sphute is calculated. 


Calculation of Beeja Sphute in Male Horoscope 
Add together the longitudes of Sun, Venus and Jupiter. 
lf the sum is more than 12 signs or 360 Degrees, expunge 
multiples of 12 signs. The resultant longitude is called 
Beeja Sphute or the longitude of seed. 1f the Beeja Sphute 
occupies odd sign or odd Navamsa and is aspected by 
or associated with benefic planets then the Beeja Sphute 
is considered as powerful and the male is capable of 
producing child. 


Calculation of Kshetra Sphute in Female Horoscope 
Add together the longitudes of Mars, Moon and Jupiter. 
If the sum is more than 12 sign or 360 Degrees, expunge 
the multiples of 12 signs or 360 Degrees. The result so 
derived is called Kshetra Sphute which determines the 
fertility of a woman. If the longitude of bed (Kshetra 
Sphute) falls in even sign or in even Navamsa and is 
associated with or aspected by benefic planets, the 
woman is fertile and capable of conceiving and 
procreating a child. 


Note:- 

1. The evil and impotent planets should not conjoin or 
aspect these two sensitive points, nor should malefic 
planets occupy the 5" houses from Beeja and Kshetra 
Sphutes. 

2. Beeja and Kshetra Sphutes should not fall in malefic 
sign even though it is friendly. 

3. Beeja and Kshetra Sphutes should not fall in the 6th, 
8th and 12" houses from the Lagna in a horoscope. 

4. They should get benefic varga in the navamsa and 
the saptamsa charts. 


206 : Analysis of Marriage through Astrology 


5. Lords of the Beeja and Kshetra Sphutes should not be 
combust, debilitated, afflicted, placed in evil houses 
and creates Pap Kartari Yoga. 

6. It is good for progeny if lords of Beeja and Kshetra 
Sphutes aspect the Beeja and Kshetra Sphutes. 


Santan Tithi Sphute 

Multiply 5 with the longitudes of the Sun and Moon 
separately. Deduct the result of Sun (five times longitudes 
of the Sun) from the result of Moon (five times longitudes 
of Moon). The resultant figure is called Santan Tithi 
Sphute. If the Tithi falls in Shukla Paksha and is an 
auspicious Tithi, the person will beget son without any 
problem. If the Tithi falls in Krishna Paksha and also 
inauspicious then there is no chance of begetting a child. 


Note: - Amawasya and chhidra Tithis (Chaturthi, Shathi, 
Ashtami, Navami, Dwadashi and Chaturdashi) are 
inauspicious. 

If the Tithi falls in Vishti, Shakuni, Chatuspada, Nag 
and Kintughna Karana then it also creates problem in 
procreation and obstacles in pleasure from children 
(Santan Sukha) 


Combinations of begetting Children 

1. According to Parasara if the 5" lord is exalted in the 
house of 2", 3", 5, 9" and Lagna and aspected by 
or conjoined with Jupiter, the native will have the 
blessings of obtaining a son. : 


2. According to Phaldipika if (a) Santan Karak Jupiter 
and the lords of the 5‘ houses from the Lagna and 
Moon are powerful and well placed in the nativity. 
(b) the 5 house is aspected by its lord, by benefic 
lords of the 4™ and 9" houses as well as by benefic 
planets viz Venus and Jupiter. (c) the 5 house is not 
aspected by lords of the evil houses i.e. 6", 8", or 12" 


Chapter 19: Santan or Child 207 


houses. (d) the 5th lord and Lagna lord are either 
posited together or have mutual exchange of houses 
or mutually aspect each other with friendly aspects 
then under the above conditions the native will be 
blessed with a son. 


3. If the 5" lord is conjoined with Moon and also posited 
in the decanate of the Moon, the native will beget 
only daughters. 


4. If the 5 lord is powerful and 5 house is aspected 
by strong Mercury, Venus and Jupiter, the native will 
beget many children. 


5. If the 5" house from Jupiter is posited by a benefic 
planet and Jupiter himself is powerful and conjoined 
with benefic planet, the native will obtain a son who 
is long-living. 

6. If 5" house from Lagna, Moon and 7" house are 

occupied by benefic planets and they themselves are 

powerful and in conjunction with benefic planets, the 
native will be blessed with a son. 


7. If Mercury, Venus and Moon are posited in the 5” 
house, the native will beget many daughters. 


8. If Mercury, Jupiter and Venus are posited in their 
own signs or in their signs of exaltation and placed 
in Kendra or Trikona, the native will beget a son 
who will be wealthy. 


Combinations of delayed begetting of child 

1. If the 9 lord is posited in the 5" house and the 5" 
lord is debilitated and Mercury and Ketu are situated 
in the 5 house, the native will beget a son after a 
great ordeal i.e. after’ medical treatment or 
performance of religious rites and rituals. 


208 Analysis of Marriage through Astrology 


2. If the debilitated 5" lord is posited in the 6", 8", or 
12" house or in an enemy sign and the 5" house is 
occupied by malefic planets, the native will get a son 
after a great ordeal. 


3. If the 5" house is occupied by Jupiter and the 5" lord 
is conjoined with Venus, the child will be born to the 
native in his 32% or 33™ year. 


4. If the 5" lord is placed in a Kendra and conjoined 
with Jupiter, the birth of a baby to the native will be 
in his 30" or 36" year. 


5. If Jupiter is posited in the 9" house from Lagna and 
Venus is posited in the 9 house from Jupiter or Venus 
is conjoined with the Lagna lord, then the birth of a 
child to the native will occur in his 40 year. 

6. If the Sun is posited in the 5™ in the sign of Vrisha, 
Sinha, Kanya and Vrishchika, Saturn in the 8" house 
and Mars in the Lagna, the native will beget a son 
after many efforts. 


7. If Alpasuta Rasis (Vrisha, Sinha, Kanya and 
Vrishchika) are in 5‘ house, Saturn in Lagna, Jupiter 
in the 8" house and Mars in the 12" house, the native 
will beget a son after many efforts. 


8. If many planets are posited in the Lagna, Moon in 
the 11™ house and Jupiter in the 5" house, the native 
will beget a child after many efforts. 


9. If only Sun is in Cancer in the 5" house or only 
Venus is in Cancer in the 5" house or only Mars is 
in Cancer in the 5" house then the native will beget 
a son from his second wife. 

10. If Saturn is in Cancer alone in 5" house the native 

will beget many sons. 


Chapter 19: Santan or Child 209 


11. If Mercury is in Cancer in the 5™ house alone, the 


native will beget a few sons 


12. If Moon is in her own sign in the 5™ house alone, 


the native will beget a few sons. 


13. If Jupiter is exalted in the 5" house and is alone the 


native will beget many daughters. 


Combinations of denial of child 


1. 


If malefic planets occupy the 5" house from Lagna, 
Moon and Jupiter and no benefic planet either occupies 
or aspects the 5" house, the native will not be blessed 
to beget a child. 


_ If the 5™ lord from Lagna, Moon and Jupiter are 


placed in evil houses from the Lagna or hemmed 
between two malefic planets, there will be no child. 


. If any one of the following combinations occur in a 


horoscope, the native will not beget a child. (a) If the 
4" house is occupied by malefic planets, Moon is in 
10" and Venus in the 7” house (b) If Lagna, 5", 8” 
and 12" are occupied by malefic (c) If Mercury and 
Venus are in the 7" house, Jupiter in the 5" and 
malefics are in the 4" house from the Lagna (d) lf 
Moon is:in the 5 and malefics occupy Lagna, 8", 
and 12” from Lagna. 


. If a malefic planet is in Lagna, Lagna lord is in 5” 


and 5" lord is in 3 and Moon is posited in the 4" 
house from Lagna. 


. If Moon is in an odd sign and in an odd Navamsa 


and receives aspect from the Sun, there will be no 
son but if any how, the native begets a son, he will 
not be happy with the child. 


Anapatyaa Yoga 


1. 


If Santan Karaka Jupiter, Lagna lord, 7" lord and 5" 
lord are found weak in a nativity, the native will not 
have issues. 


210 Analysis of Marriage through Astrology 


2. If malefic planets are posited in the 5” house from 
Lagna, Moon and Jupiter, the native shall be childless. 


Combinations for adopted child 

1. If Gemini, Virgo, Capricorn or Aquarius fall in 5™ 
house and Mandi or Saturn is in 5" house or aspects 
' 5" house then the native will not beget a child but he 
will adopt a child. (According to Parasara Mandi or 
Gulika has its aspect) 


2. If the lord of 5™ house is devoid of strength ic. 5" 
lord is debilitated or placed in evil houses or hemmed 
between malefic planets and not connected with 
Lagna lord or 7" lord, the native will not beget but 
will adopt a child. 


3. If the 5 house is occupied by 6 planets, 5" lord is 
situated in the 12" house and Lagna lord and the 
Moon are endowed with strength, the native will have 
an adopted son. 


Combination of First Son 

1. If Lagna lord is posited in Lagna, 2™ or 3" house 
from Lagna, the native will have first issue as son. 

2. If Moon, Venus and Mars are in dual signs (Mithune, 
Kanya, Dhanu and Meena) then first issue will be 
son. 


3. If the 5" lord is posited in Lagna and aspected by 
Jupiter, the first issue of the native will be son. 


4. If ascendants are in Aries, Cancer, Leo, Scorpio and 
Sagittarius and the 5" lord are in male signs -or in 
male Navamsa, the native will beget first issue as a 
son. 

5. If strong Sun, Mars or Jupiter are posited in the 5™ 
or 7° house, the first issue of the native will be a son. 


Chapter 19: Santan or Child 211 


6. If fiery signs (Aries, Leo and Sagittarius) are in 5™ 


house and 5" lord is posited in fiery signs, the native 
will beget a son as the first issue. 


Combinations of daughter as first issue 
1. If 5th lord is female planets viz Venus, Moon, Mercury 


or Saturn is posited in female signs then the first 
issue will be a daughter. 


2. If 5" lord is aspected by powerful Venus, Moon or 


3. 


Rahu, the first issue will be a daughter. 


If watery signs (Cancer, Scorpio and Pisces) are in 5” 
house and the 5" lord is in watery signs, the native 
will beget the first issue as a daughter. 


Number of Children 


1 


. If the Sun being 5™ lord is posited in the 5" house or 


aspects the 5™ house, there will be one son to the 
native. 


. In the, similar condition Jupiter will give five sons and 


Mars will give three sons. 


. If Saturn being 6" lord is posited in 5™ or aspects the 


5" house, she will give seven daughters. 


. In the similar conditions Venus will give six daughters, 


Mercury two daughters and Moon one daughter. 


. If Jupiter is strongly posited in 3 house it will give 


5 sons, Mercury in 3% will give one son and two 
daughters or two sons and one daughter. 


. The Sun in 5™ aspected by Jupiter will give three 


sons. 


. If Saturn and Mars are posited in 5™ house from 


Virgo ascendant it will give three sons. 


_ If Saturn is in 5" from Libra ascendant it will give 


five sons. 


9. If the Sun and Jupiter are posited in the the 5™ 


house together they will give six sons. 


212 Analysis of Marriage through Astrology 


10. If the 5™ lord is posited in the 5" house and Saturn 
is in the 9" (5* from 5") then the native will beget 
seven sons. 

11. There will be six sons if 5" lord is conjoined with 2" 
lord in the 5" house. Out of six sons three may expire. 

12. If Jupiter is posited in the 5™ house from Saturn or 
Saturn is posited in the 5” from Jupiter and the 5" 
house is afflicted by malefic planets, there will be one 
son. 


Note: - There are restrictions imposed by Government of 
India on the number of children. That is why Indians 
practice family planning. In such conditions the above 
mentioned astrological combinations may not occur. 
Astrologers should take these points into consideration 
while judging a horoscope. 


Kakbandhya Yoga 


When a woman, incapable of conceiving after giving 
birth to a child, is called Kakbandhya 


Followings are the Yogas of Kakbandhya (Sterile) 

1. If 5" lord is posited in the 6" house and the Lagna 
lord is in conjunction with Mars, the first born child 
will expire and thereafter his wife will become 
Kakbandhya (sterile) 

2. If debilitated 5™ lord is tenanted in 6", 8" or 12” 
house and Mercury is in the 5", the native’s wife will 
be Kakbandhya. 

3. If 5'* lord is debilitated or does not aspect 5'* house 
and Saturn and Mercury are situated in the 5" house, 
the native’s wife will be Kakbandhya (sterile). 


CHAPTER-20 
Ayu or Longevity of 
Bride or Bridegroom 


here are two methods on the basis of which the 
longevity of a native is calculated. 
1. Ganitagata ie. the methods in which mathematical 
calculations are required in determination of longevity. 
2. Yogas i.e. the methods in which special combinations 
of planets (Yogas) or planetary positions are found in 
a nativity to estimate the longevity of a native. 


1. Ganitagata. There are five methods as mentioned in 
the Brihat Parasara Hora Shastra which are as follows. 
(a) Anshayu 2. Pindayu 3. Naisargika Ayu 4. Jeevayu 5. 
Mishrayu. 


(a) Anshayu. 

This method was developed by Satyacharya. In this 
method all the planets and the ascendant give longevity 
in year equal to their Navamsa sign counted from Aries. 
One Navamsa is regarded as one year. There are 108 
Navamsa in 12 signs. According to Parasara, Navamsa 
should be calculated in traversed sign degree, minute 
etc. as per following formula. 


Longitude of a planet _x 108 _longivity contributed by 
12 the planet 


214 Analysis of Marriage through Astrology 


In this method the longevity given by a planet should 
not be taken more than 12 years. If the longevity comes 
to more than 12, deduct 12 or multiple of 12 from the 
derived longevity and the remainder so arrived becomes 
longevity given by the planet. 


Some reductions and additions are required to be made 
in the above longevity as per conditions of the planets. 


Rules of reductions. 

G) If a planet is combust, there will be reduction of one 
half of the longevity contributed by the planet. 

(ii) If the planet is posited in his enemy sign, the 
longevity contributed by the planet will be reduced 
by one third. 

(iii) Reductions due to the planets being in the visible 
half of the zodiac starting from the 12" house and 
ending at the 7" house. 

(a) If malefic planets are in 12" house, full longevity 

contributed by them will be reduced. 
If in 11 house, half longevity will be reduced. If 
in 10° house, one third, in 9" house one fourth, in 
8"" house one fifth and in 7" house one sixth of the 
longevity will be reduced. 

(b) In case of benefic planets reduction of one half of 
the longevity in 12" house will be made. In 11™ 
house one fourth, in 10" house one sixth, in gt 
house one eighth, in 8" house one tenth and in 7” 
house one twelfth reductions will be made. 


In the case of many planets posited in one house, 
reduction in respect of only the strongest planet should 
be made. This type of reductions is called Vyayadi 
Harana. 


Rules of additions 
(i) The longevity of a planet is tripled if the planet is 
either in his deep exaltation or in his own sign. 


Chapter 20: Ayu or Longevity of Bride or Bridegroom 215 


Gi) The longevity of a planet is doubled if the planet is 
in his own Navamsa or in his own decanate. 
Similarly longevity of each planet is calculated and 
added together to get longevity of the nature. 


(b) Pindayu 
In this method Varshamana (longevity) of the planets 
are fixed as given below. This is called Ayupindas. 


Planets Deep exalt. | Ayu pinda Year Deep Ayupinda 

Point in Month debilitation Year- 

Sign-degree Pt Sign- month 

degree 

Sun 06 
Moon 06 
Mars 06 
Mercury 00 
Jupiter 15 
Venus 06 
Saturn 00 


Planets Fixed Varshamana or Ayupinda 


These Ayupindas of the planets are applicable only when 
they are at their deep exaltation points. As the planets 
move ahead of their deep exaltation points their 
Varshamanas or longevities are gradually reduced 
proportionately till they reach their deep debilitation 
points where their longevities will be half reduced. Thus 
we have to calculate the longevity of a planet on the 
basis of its position in the horoscope. 


First determine the longitude of the planet whose 
longevity is to be calculated. Deduct the longitude of 
the planet from the longitude of his deep exaltation point. 
If the remainder is less than 180 degrees it should be 
deducted from 360 degrees, otherwise it should be taken 
as it is. The remainder thus obtained should be multiplied 


216 Analysis of Marriage through Astrology 


by the fixed Varshamana of the planet. The product is 
converted into signs, degrees etc. The signs are to be 
divided by 12. The quotient will be taken as year and 
remainder as months. Similarly degrees, Kalas (minutes) 
and Vikalas (seconds) will be taken as days, ghatis and 
palas respectively. Thus the obtained figures in years, 
months, days, ghatis and palas will be the longevity 
contributed by the planet. This Ayupindas (longevity) is 
subject to some rectifications according to its placement 
in visible half, combust and retrogression in the nativity. 


Formula 

(Planet's longitude - Exaltation point) x Number of years 

assigned to the planet and the product is divided by 

360. The resultant figure is the period of longevity 

contributed by the planet. 

(a) If the longitude of the planet is less than the deep 
point of exaltation, add 360 degrees, and then carry 
out the necessary reductions. 

(b) If the difference between the planet's longitude and 
the exaltation point is less than 180 degrees, it should 
be subtracted from 360 degrees. 


Rectifications or reductions or Harana 

There are four kinds of Haranas applied to the 
Ayupindas of the planets due to their planetary positions 
or afflictions. They are as follows 

(i) Chakrapata Harana (ii) Astagata or combust Harana 
Gii) Shatrukshetra Harana (iv) Krurodaya Harana 


(i) Chakrapata Harana 
Reductions due to the planets having placed in the visible 
half of the zodiac starting from the 12" house and 
ending at the 7 house are called Chakrapata Harana 
or reductions. They are as follows 
(a) If malefic planets are in 12" house, full longevity 
contributed by them will be reduced. 
If in 11" house, half longevity will be reduced. If 


Chapter 20: Ayu or Longevity of Bride or Bridegroom 217 


in 10" house, one third, in 9 house one fourth, in 
8 house one fifth and in 7" house one sixth of the 
longevity will be reduced. 

(b) In case of benefic planets, reduction of one half of 
the longevity in 12" house will be made. In 11" 
house one fourth, in 10" house one sixth, in git 
house one eighth, in 8" house one tenth and in 7 
house one twelfth reductions will be made. 

(c) If there are two or more than two planets in any of 
the above six houses, reduction is done only for the 
strongest planet in the house. 


qi) Astagata or combust Harana 

If a planet is combust, there will be reduction of one 
half of the longevity contributed by the planet. The 
longevity of Saturn or Venus is not subjected to reduction 
even if they are combust. A planet becomes combust 
when it reaches near the Sun. This is called Astangata 
Harana. The degrees at which they are regarded as 
combust when they reach near the sun are as follows. 


Planets Moon Mars Mercury Jupiter Venus Saturn Mercury Venus 


Retrograde Retrograde 
Degree 12 17 13 11 ] 15 12 8 


Gil) Shatrukshetra Harana 

(a) lf a planet is posited in his enemy sign, the longevity 
contributed by the planet will be reduced by one 
third after Chakrapata Harana is done. Here planets 
should be natural enemy. This is called 
Shatrukshetra Harana. 

(b) If the planet is retrograde or Vakra then no Harana 
(reduction) for the planet should be done. 

(c) No reduction should be done for the planet Mars. 
Vakra is also a name of Mars. So there is confusion 
whether reduction should be made for retrograde 
planet or Mars. Therefore to solve this problem, both 
retrograde planets as well as Mars are kept out of 
Shatrukshetra Haran (reduction). 


218 Analysis of Marriage through Astrology 


(iv) Krurodaya Harana. 

If one or more malefic planets are posited in Lagna, a 

reduction is required to be done. This reduction is called 

Krurodaya Harana. If more than one malefic planet is 

posited in the Lagna, the Krurodaya Harana is done 

only for the strongest or the nearest planet to the 
longitude of the Lagna. 

(a) If the Lagna lord is malefic and posited in Lagna 
then no reduction is done for this planet. 

(b) If a benefic planet aspects the Lagna with malefic 
planet(s) then one half of the Ayupinda already 
calculated for the malefic planet is reduced. 

(c) In practice the waning Moon and afflicted Mercury 
are considered as benefic planet for the purpose of 
such type of reductions. 


The amount of Krurodaya Haran is calculated as follows:- 
Longitude of ascendant is multiplied by Pindayu of the 
malefic planet posited in Lagna and the product is 
divided by 360. The quotient is taken as year and the 
remainder as month, day etc. as Krurodaya Harana 
Contribution of the ascendant to the longevity 
Number of sign of the ascendant is the number of years. 
Traversed degrees in the sign are number of months, 
days etc. This will be the longevity contributed by the 
Lagna. If Navamsa Lord of Lagna is stronger than the 
Lagna lord, the number of Navamsa will be the number 
of years. If ascendant lord of Moon lagna is stronger 
than the ascendant lord, the number of the sign in which 
Moon is posited is taken as number of years. 

In this way longevities of all the planets are calculated 
and the sum total of Ayupindas of all the planets and 
that of ascendant indicates the age or longevity of the 
native. 

(c) Naisargika Ayu 

There is a close similarity between the methods of 
Naisargika Ayu and Pindayu. The only difference is 
among the Varshamanas of the planets. In this system 


Chapter 20: Ayu or Longevity of Bride or Bridegroom 219 


Varshamana of the planets Moon, Mars, Mercury, 
Venus, Jupiter, Sun and Saturn, beginning from the time 
of birth of the native , are fixed respectively as 1, 2, 9, 
20, 18, 20 and 50 years at their deep exaltation points. 
They are reduced to half at their deep debilitation points. 
The rest of methods of calculations are similar to that 
of Pindayu. 

Note:- If the ascendant lord is more powerful than the 
sign lord of Sun and Moon in Shadabala then the method 
of Anshayu is adopted, if the Sun is powerful then 
Pindayu and in case of Moon Naisargika method is 
adopted. lf two are powerful then average of the two 
should be adopted. In case all the three are equally 
powerful then average of all the three methods should 
be taken as longevity of the native. 

(d) Jeevayu. 

This method was developed by Jeeva Sarma, a great 
astrologer of ancient time. He has taken 120 years 5 
, days as maximum span of life of a human being when 
all the planets are at their deep exaltation points. 
Therefore, longevity contributed by each planet at his 
deep exaltation point is 120 year 5 days divided by:7 = 
17 years 1 month 22 days 8 kalas 34 vikalas. This 
longevity becomes half when the planet is at his deep 
debilitation point. The proportionate longevity is 
calculated for the planet that is placed in between the 
two points. 

Rectifications or reductions (Haranas) as mentioned in 
Pindayu system are also applicable in this method .This 
method is not so popular. 

(e) Mishrayu 

This method is the combinations of all the four methods 
given above. It is also not popular and hence not in use. 


Calculation of longevity based on Nakshtra. 

(a) Based on Bhukta Ghati of Janma Nakshatra 
Multiply the Bhukta ghatis of Janma Nakshatra by 4 
and the product is divided by 3.The quotient indicates 


220 Analysis of Marriage through Astrology 


longevity in years already consumed by the Nakshatra. 
Hence deduct the quotient from 100. The balance gives 
the longevity of the native in year, month and days. In 
this system 100 years is taken as maximum span of life. 


(b) Longevity based on the Nakshatras Bhogya (nb) of 
longitudes of Lagna, 3°? bhava centre, 8" bhava centre, 
Saturn, Sun and Moon. 

A = [1/6 (nb of 1+ nb of 3% + nb of. 8 -+nb of Sun 


+nb_ of Moon + nb of Saturn)]* 


; A_x 23.93446972 x 2.5 x 60 x 12 
Maximum span of life in year = 365.2564 
= in yrs month days 


*Here power 4 indicates maximum span of life. If we 
ignore 4, we will get minimum span of life. 


In sidereal time period of 1 pal = 12 days (mundane) 

Therefore 1 pala = 12 days, 60 Palas =12x60 = 720 days 

= | danda 

60 dandas = 720x 60 = 43200 days 

1 day = 43200/360 = 120 years = 12 century (120/ 

100) 

As we know from the astrological dictum that 9 is 

source and 5th is the result of the Lagna (self). Thus 

life involves three phases of hereditary cycle whose span 

is 120 years and therefore one phases = 1.2/3 = .4 which 

is the power of Bhogya Nakshatras as mentioned above. 

Hora Lagna Khanda Method 

Span of longevity of human being is classified into three 
groups. 

(i) Short life up to 50 years. 

(ii) Medium life—above 50 years up to 70 years. 

Gii) Long life above 70 years 

In this method longevity is calculated on the basis of 
following three sets of items VIZ 

(a) Lagna lord and 8" lord (b) Moon and Saturn 

(c) Lagna and Hora Lagna 


Chapter 20: Ayu or Longevity of Bride or Bridegroom 221 


For movable sign number allotted is 1. For Fixed sign 
number allotted is 2. For dual sign number allotted is 3 
If the total numbers comes to 2 or 5 in the above sets 
then longevity is long life. If the total number comes to 
3 or 6, the longevity will be medium life and if the total 
number comes to 4 the longevity is short life. 
Calculation of Hora Lagna 

Deduct the Sun rise time from the Birth time. The result 

is called Istakaal. Covert the Istakaal 

into hour minute and second. The number of hour will 

be taken as number of sign. 

Minute x 1/2 = number of degrees and second x % = 

number of minutes. Thus the longitude found is called 

Hora Lagna Khanda. To get the Hora Lagna we apply 

the following formula. 

I. If the birth Lagna is in odd sign, the Hora Lagna 
Khanda will be added to the longitude of the Sun to 
get Hora Lagna. 

2. If the birth Lagna is in even sign, then Hora Lagna 
Khanda will be added to the longitude of Lagna to 
get Hora Lagna. 

3. If the birth Lagna has relation with Moon i. either 
Moon is in Lagna or in the 7" from Lagna, and then 
adds the Hora Lagna Khanda to the longitude of 
Moon to get Hora Lagna. 

If the results from the three principles above are different 

or inconclusive then the result given by Lagna lord and 

8" lord should be taken as final. If Moon is in Lagna or 

in 7" house, then instead of judging from Saturn, judge 

from the sign of ascendant cusp and the sign of Moon 
and ignore the sign of Saturn. 

Yogas i.e. judgment of longevity by planetary positions 

and combinations 

1. A native will have a long life 

(a) If Saturn is posited in the s" house (b) Saturn is 
posited in the Kendra, Kona and Upachaya houses 


(c) Saturn is posited in his own sign, in his exaltation 


222 Analysis of Marriage through Astrology 


sign or in his moolatrikona sign. (d) Saturn is neither 
afflicted nor aspected by his enemy nor posited in his 
enemy sign (e) Saturn is connected with Lagna, Lagna 
lord, 3°? house, 3°? lord or 8" house, 8" lord. 

2. If Saturn is posited in the 8" house and connected 
with the Sun. 

3 If the 8" lord is posited in Kendra, Kona, in his own 
house, in his Moolatrikona, in his exaltation sign or 
in the house of his friend. 

4. If Jupiter, Venus and Mercury are posited in Kendra. 

5. If 6" lord is posited in 6" or 8" or 12" house and 
12" lord is posited in 12" or 8" or 6" house and 8" 
house is posited in 8" house. 

6. If Lagns lord, 8" lord, 10" lord and Saturn are in 
Kendra and 11™ house. 

7. If Lagna lord is exalted, Moon is in 11" with 11" 
lord and Jupiter is in 8 house. 

8.1f Saturn is in the 8 house and conjoined "with 
Ketu, the native will have ill- health. 

9, If Saturn is connected with 12" lord then the native 
will have long life but very often he will remain 
hospitalised. 

10. If 8" lord is debilitated and the 8" house is occupied 
by malefic planets and Lagna lord is weak then the 
native will have a short life. 

11. If 8" lord is combust or posited in 6" or 12" house 
or in the debilitation sign of his enemy, the native 


will have a short life. 


