AstROLOGICAL 


EMSTONES 


oA 


The 
Complete Science 
of 
Planetary 
Gemology 


Compiled in Asia 1975 - 2005 
by 
Richard Shaw Brown 
Gemologist 


Designer & Author 
O00 


Om pendant. 

Eye clean emerald 
handcrafted in 21k 
yellow gold Mercury 
Astral Talisman 
Piece no, 2257 


Auspicrous 
Invocation 


My dear Lord, You manifest Your different energies in countless forms: 
as living entities born from wombs, from eggs and from perspiration; 
as plants and trees that grow out of the earth; as all living entities, both 
moving and standing, including the demigods, the learned sages and the 
pitas; as outer space, as the higher planetary system containing the heavenly 
planets, and as the planet earth with its hills, rivers, seas, oceans and islands. 
Indeed, all the stars and planets are simply manifestations of Your 
different energies, but originally You are one without a second. 
There is nothing beyond You. This entire cosmic manifestation 
is therefore not false but 1s simply a temporary mantfestation of 
Your inconceivable energy. 


Srimad Bhagavat Maha-Puranam: 5.18.32 
Translation by Tridandi Bikshu Bhaktivedanta Swami Prabhupada 


Mercury & Venus Talisman. 

Large flawless, natural, 
emerald-green tourmaline 
hand-crafted in an 18k yellow gold 
ring with matching diamonds 

in the twin Mercury symbols 

Piece no. 3939 


COVER PIECE: 

Sri Navaratna Astral Talisman. 
The Nine Gems Collection, when 
all natural (like natural pearl) and 
flawless (like this example bangle), 
is known as the ultimate talisman 
for a person fortunate enough 

to wear one. 

Piece no. 10816 


Bhaktivedanta Swami Bhaktivedanta Swami 


4 pm Birth Time ¥ .30 pm Birth Til 
_ Capricorn Rising) ‘. ’ Sagittarius Risi 


Ay 
ety 
A>) 


Two different astrological charts cast for late, great Acharya " 
Param Pujya Srila Abhay Charan Bhakti-vedanta Swami 
Prabhupada, based on two different birth times. 


Note: Srila Abhay Charan Bhakti-vedanta Swami declared his rr 
birth to be at “4 PM on September 1, 1896 in Calcutta, India.” _ 
< ; 


Charts designed by Rick MacKay ~~, 
‘ Y ’ 
he + 


A Dedication 


I dedicate this book to His Divine Grace 
Srila Abhay Charan Bhaktivedanta Swami Prabhupada, 
my Guruder, 
who opened the floodgates of Vedic Wisdom 
in this age of darkness 


I offer thanks and appreciation for the help I received in 
understanding and presenting this mysterious science from many people, 
including Rick MacKay, Manfred Winkler, Dan Reid, Pandit Vidyadhar 
Shukla, Prof: Dr. Satya Vrat Shastri, Gayatri Devi Vasudev, Prof: Dr. B.V. 
Raman, Maleerat Limsupawanit, Adisorn Wattanavanich, Tom Hopke, 
Howard Beckman, P.N. Scherman, G.S. Kapoor, Raaj Roop Tank, Dr. A. K. 
Bhattacharya, Han Win, Austin Gordon, Shyamasundara Dasa, Orawan 
Arkun, my best friend Tom Wasil, my devoteed wife Navaratna, and finally to 
Sri Paramatma ° the Supersoul © who dwells within the heart of every finite 
being as Witness and Advisor. 


Om Sri Ganeshaya “Namah 
Om Sri Ganeshaya “Namah 
Om Sri Ganeshaya “Namah 


Flawless red coral gem carved 
into the form of Sri Ganesha 
and encased in 21k gold. 
Piece no. 9910 


Table of Contents 


I 


XVII 


An INTRODUCTION to Planetary Gemology 
Author's Note: Ignorant Skepticism Vs Time-honored Wisdom 
SIDEREAL ASTROLOGY 
BIRTHSTONES : bogus & bona fide 
GEMSTONE POWERS 

GEMSTONE CLARITY 

ASTRAL GEMSTONE TALISMANS 
CHOOSING YOUR PLANETARY GEM 
ANCIENT VEDIC GEM LORE a 


MODERN GEMOLOGICAL DATA i : 


’ 
4 


GEMSTONE NARRATIVES MW 


CRYSTALS: The Final Word ~~ 
RATNA-ARPANA: Donating Gems with Mantras 
GEMSTONE COLOR ¢& CLARITY 

THE PLANETARY HERBS bg 

WHAT ARE REAL “NATURAL PEARLS”? 
SRI NAVA MOTI - The 9 Pearls 

SRI RUDRAKSHA BIJA 

SRI KAILASH SHILA 

SRI LAKSHMI SHANK 

SRI SHALAGRAM SHILA 

GLOSSARY 

BIBLIOGRAPHY 

About the Author & Designer 


Books by Richard Shaw Brown 


160 


162 


Sri Nava-Ratna. 

The nine planetary gems 
handcrafted in 21k gold 
“Royal Thai Window” 
herbal Pendant. 


Piece no. 9109 


Introduction 


A ccording to ancient Vedic authority, natural gemstones transmit and 
resonate astral or piezoelectric powers (like radio crystals transform sound 
vibrations)! Fine, flawless gems promote good fortune, while poor quality gems have 
the opposite affect (Ref. Garuda Purana: Chapter 68, Verse 17). The power of gems 
emanates from the nine planets (nava-graha ) recognized by the ancient, “Sidereal” 
science of astrology. The nine planets and their associated gems are Ruby for the Sun, 
Pearl for the Moon, Yellow sapphire for Jupiter, Hessonite for Rahu (the ascending 
node of the Moon), Emerald for Mercury, Diamond for Venus, Cat’s eye for Ketu 
(the descending node of the Moon), Blue sapphire for Saturn, and Coral for Mars 
(Ref. Mani Mala: page 575, verse 79). These “planets” influence different aspects of 
life and, as luminous bodies, also radiate specific cosmic colors. According to ancient 
belief the colors radiated by the nine planets are identical to the cosmic colors of the 
different gemstones. Sometimes the cosmic colors are obvious while in other cases 
this is not so. Thus red is the cosmic color of rubies, 
while orange is the cosmic color of pearls. 


Gems strengthen planetary powers and will boost their specific influences in three 
ways. The first way is by adding “cosmic color” to one’s own aura. The second way is 
by “astrologically” enhancing their associated area of one’s life. For instance, Moon 
(pearl) influences mind and emotions while Venus (diamond) rules art and sex. The 
third way is by attracting the attention of their ruling planetary deities, the Sun-god, 
Moon-god, Mars, Jupiter, etc. The “cosmic colors” and gemstone powers will be 
explained further in Chapter III. 


The single biggest obstacle to the worldwide, modern day practice of “Planetary 
gemology” is widespread acceptance of the so-called birth stone system from the 
West. The history of this practice is explained in Chapter IT. It is no secret that this 
list of birth stones was created by the American National Retail Jewelers’ Association 
in 1912. The origin of this system is attributed to the early Hebrew civilization and 
has nothing whatsoever to do with any system of astrology. Furthermore, birth stones 
cannot be based on a list of months because birth signs change on or about the 22nd 
of each month. Thus two different signs rule each month according to the date of 
one’s birth. 


The color hue of each gem will almost always fit into one of the 4 social-economic- 


intellectual categories (varnas ). Everyone is advised to use the color that best suits 
their needs. Refer to Chapter III for this information. 


. 


Ancient Astrological Gemstones & Talismans combines the essential knowledge 
from the ancient Vedic texts with modern gemological data. We sincerely hope that readers find 
the resulting information both helpful and enlightening. 


It is our hope and belief that this ancient knowledge of “Planetary Gemology” we are presenting 
will soon become an important part of popular World culture and will be remembered and 
practiced for at least 1,000 years into the future. 


—Richard S. Brown 
(Bangkok: Jan. 2, 1994) 


Mars Astral Talisman. 
Completely flawless 
Red Coral gem empowers 
this 18k gold “herbal” 
ring adorned with 

Mars symbols. 

Piece no. 414 


Ignorant Skepticism Vs Time-Honored Wisdom 


Planetary Gemology: The Jyotish or sidereal astrological science of the piezoelectric relationship 
between nine categories of gems and nine categories of planets. 


| NM 1987 I was invited by The President of the Asian Institute of Gemological Sciences 
(AIGS) to give a lecture to his students on the subject of “Planetary Gemology.” The audience was 
extremely interested in the discourse when suddenly I was interrupted by a student who insisted 

that everything I had said was total nonsense. My question to all sane and levelheaded persons is 
how do you qualify to pass judgement on any subject? How do scientists and philosophers arrive at 
any conclusion? The student had done no conclusive research nor testing, yet still had the audacity 

to pass a 
completely unqualified judgement! 

For thousands of years great thinkers and scientists such as Vyasadeva (the compiler of the Vedas), 
Sri Parasara Rishi (A grand-guru of sidereal astrology), Sri Bhakti-siddhanta Sarasvati (a great Vedic 
scholar), and Pandit Vidyadhar Shukla (A leading astrologer and the Chief Brahmin Priest of 
Thailand) have revered and practiced the ancient Vedic science of Jyotish or sidereal astrology. And 
for that matter, millions of intelligent people today still believe in and follow this ancient science. 
Who are we, puny, uncontrolled and unqualified humans, to call all these, and other learned 
persons fools?! Who is thus qualified? 

Certainly there is a criteria for making a judgement. This criteria is, and always will be, knowledge! 
Without knowledge of a subject, no one is qualified to pass judgement with any certainty. Especially 
when dealing with subjects far surpassing our limited sensual or intellectual experiences. Consider 
this: how many people today have stopped to think 
that this solid Earth we stand upon is actually a planet which is flying through space 
at breakneck speed? 

And this earth is not alone! Look to the heavens on any clear night and behold the breathtaking 
array and multitude of other planets and stars reaching far and beyond even the most powerful 
telescopes. The planets in our own solar system are also flying through space at varying speeds in 
orbits around a Sun; and all these heavenly bodies (including this Earth we live on) are moving 
through space like the workings of a great, cosmic clock. This has been going on since the 
beginning of time, in spite of the ignorance and limited knowledge of humans, animals, and others. 
In the face of this vast and wonderful material reality, who is qualified to understand or pass 
judgement on the ancient sciences of sidereal astrology and planetary gemology. One look at the 
great personalities who have properly accepted and investigated Vedic wisdom since time 
immemorial will answer my question. Both past as well as present, 
these great teachers obtained and 
revered the time-honored wisdom. 

Others, though completely un-versed in certain fields or branches of knowledge, but who still speak 
against them are undoubtedly ignorant skeptics! Without undertaking a well-rounded course of 
research no one is qualified to reject anything, especially ancient, time-honored wisdom, out of 
hand. Both science and logic dictate wisdom based on divine revelation combined with extensive 
experimentation and firsthand experience. The peoples of Asia since time immemorial are certainly 
not fools. In our quest for life we must not loose sight of the greater realities. 
Remember, we are living on a small planet which is 
flying through space at this very moment! 


. 


, 
o 
*, 
_ 
. 
. . 
P ‘ 
an’s fir ts jence, was . ¢ 
“aot “> the study of the stars. The stars 
: ia aided hinwto order his life, improve 
his haf vests and. so-on. Over +. 
» < 
. tho housands of ¥ years of 
° ervation many initiates 
+ to veglize . "7 
power of the stars over . 
ite of earth and mau, . * 
“2 i many different s 
sof astrology evolved . 
e . 
J 
~4 . + 
* 
° 
> 
ve 
2 . | 
. 3 * 7 | 
. ne 
. . * 
. s @ 
— z . . n » - = —— f r3 _ . -t 
Charts designed by Rick MacKay , an . ? 
. s 6 . 
@ x . . 


Sidereal Astrology 


“Learned astrologers can indicate what may take place in the future. 
Only the creator can say what will definitely happen.” 
The Astrological Magazine of India 


he use of planetary gem therapy described in this book is based upon the 


Eastern or Sidereal system of astrology. Therefore, it is important that the reader first 
understand this ancient science and realize how it differs from the modern “Tropical” system. 
The practice of “Jyotish” (LIGHT of GOD) or Sidereal astrology has been in continuous use 
in India for thousands of years and in recent years has become increasingly popular in the West 

as well. This method gives clear indications about one’s personality and personal proclivities, 

and also uses predictive methods which are useful for short or long range planning in one’s 

life. The study of the twelve houses of the Sidereal horoscope reveals one’s destiny in all areas 

of life. For example, the first house and the Sun in one’s chart will indicate the health of the 
person. The second house and Jupiter reveal one’s karmic destiny in the area of finances. 
Similarly, Saturn and Mercury represent one’s profession and business, the ninth house 
represents religious pursuits, and there are even formulas for understanding the past and 

future lives of the soul. 

The Sidereal or Eastern system of astrology is based on the position of the belt of fixed stars 
and constellations in the heavens, whereas the Tropical zodiac or the Western astrological 
system is based upon the position of the Sun in relation to the Earth. The first degree of the 
Sidereal zodiac is measured from a point 180 degrees opposite the star Spica, whereas the first 
degree of the Western zodiac occurs when the Sun reaches the position above the equator 
known as the vernal equinox, on or about the 22nd of March each year. 

Originally, the first degree of the zodiac was common to both systems. Due to the peculiarities 
in the Earth’s orbit, however, the belt of stars and constellations appears to shift in relation to 
the Tropical zodiac. As a result, the two zodiacs are drifting apart. This is called the 
“procession of the equinoxes,” and today the difference between the two systems is calculated 
at about 23 degrees. Thus, if a person is born on January 1, he will have the Sun in Capricorn 
according to the Western system, but according to the Sidereal system 
the Sun will be at approximately 
16 degrees Sagittarius. 

By practical experience, and in light of the advice of the great sages of India, the use of the 
Sidereal method is preferable. It is mathematically more correct, and it also penetrates into the 
subtle elements of nature, such as mind, intellect, and spirit to present a more complete 
picture of our soul’s sojourn in the realm of time and space. 

The Sidereal astrological system notes the strengths and weaknesses that a person will 
experience in life, and also recommends remedial measures for improving our future. The 
karma or destiny which we are born with has been accrued by pious and impious activities in 
previous births. The spiritual astrology of India opines that karma is not eternal and can be 
changed. There are several ways to strengthen our planetary karma. 

The easiest method is to wear gemstones which attract the pure vibrations of the planets. 
According to a person’s birth chart gems can be recommended to counteract negative 
influences, strengthen auspicious planets, or, according to a person’s particular desire, a gem 
may be worn to help fulfill a certain ambition. A good astrologer should be 
consulted for particulars. 


In the Bible, Moses handed down rules governing the Breastplate of 
Judgment which contained 12 gems, each engraved with the name of 
one of the twelve tribes of Israel. Another arrangement of the 12 gems is 
described in the Book of Revelation as the foundation stones of the New 
Jerusalem. The order in which these 12 gems were given was first used to 
determine the succession of birthstones for the months. 


IT 
Burth Stones 


BOGUS & BONA FIDE 


B OGUS SYSTEM: According to the Gemological Institute of America (ref. G.I.A. Colored 
Stones Course, Assignment #41, “Birthstones”), the origin of the Western system of birthstones can be 
traced to the Breastplate of the High Priest. In the Bible, Moses handed down rules governing the 
Breastplate of Judgment which contained 12 gems, each engraved with the name of one of the twelve 
tribes of Israel. Another arrangement of the 12 gems is described in the Book of Revelation as the 
foundation stones of the New Jerusalem. The order in which these 12 gems were given was used to 
determine the succession of birthstones for the months. 


On August 12, 1912 the American National Retail Jewelers’ Association arbitrarily substituted a new list 
of birthstones, adding to or changing many of the traditional stones to others which were more 
commercially viable. In 1938 the American Gem Society adopted this list (with the addition of citrine) 
for use by its members. In 1952 a variation of this list was approved by the American National Retail 
Jewelers Association (ANRJA), National Jewelers Association (NJA), and the American Gem Society 
(AGS). Thus the official 
list of birthstones was established as follows:: 


MONTH BIRTHSTONE 

January Garnet 

February Amethyst 

March Bloodstone or Aquamarine 
April Diamond 

May Emerald 

June Pearl or Moonstone 

July Ruby 

August Sardonyx or Peridot 
September Sapphire 

October Opal or Pink Tourmaline 
November Topaz or Citrine 
December Turquoise or Zircon 


In light of the above, it is obvious that the currently recognized Western birthstone system has nothing 
to do with any astrological science. It should also be noted that the signs of the zodiac change on or 
about the 22nd of each month. Therefore it is impossible to establish a list of birthstones 
based on the months. 


According to the Tropical system of astrology prevalent in the West, zodiac or birth signs are 
determined by the position of the Sun in one’s horoscope. In the Sidereal system this is 
determined by the position of the Moon. But in both systems, the zodiac sign is important, 
not the month of one’s birth. 


Each sign of the zodiac (rasi ) is ruled by one of the planets and each planet in turn rules over 
certain gemstones according to their color. In Asia these birthstones are known collectively as 
NAVARATNA or the nine (astral) gems. 


The Nine Asian 
Birth Stones known 
as Sri Nava Ratna, 
pictured here mounted 
in 21k yellow gold with 
18k white gold trim 


Boxa FIDE SYSTEM: The only logical system of birthstones is based 
upon the planet ruling one’s zodiac sign. 


The following list of BIRTHSTONES has been known and accepted throughout Asia 
since ancient times: 


Asian Sri Nava Ratna Birthstones 


BIRTHSTONE RULING PLANET ZODIAC SIGN 
Ruby Sun Leo 

Pearl Moon Cancer 

Coral Mars Aries/Scorpio 
Emerald Mercury Gemini/Virgo 
Yellow Sapphire Jupiter Sagitarius/Pisces 
Diamond Venus Taurus/Libra 

Blue Sapphire Saturn Capricorn/Aquarius 
Hessonite Rahu . 

Cat’s Eye Ketu : 


ote: er natural stones can be substituted according to color. These secondary choice 
Note: Oth tural st be substituted ding to color. Th dary ch 
gems are known collectively as “Uparatna “ or alternate stones. These secondary choice 
jewels are listed in chapters III and IV. 


The most important difference in the use of astrological gems by the two systems is that in 
the Eastern system gems are recognized as possessing unique planetary powers which may 
be prescribed for specific purposes. We must first look to see which planets (if any) are in 
their “own sign” (sign ownership), or are “exalted” (maximum strength) or in 
“mulatrikona “(trine), or at least in a “friendly sign.” All of these “auspicious” planetary 
sign positions give positive results and will be beneficial to “strengthen.” Prescribing gems 
to “pacify” afflicted planets has not proven beneficial in our experience. Planets which are 
in a harmful condition in one’s horoscope should not be made stronger, except when 
under the watchful eye of a “selfless” Sidereal astrologer. 


In the next chapter we will discuss the powers of fine gems, planet by planet. 


*According to B.V. Raman and other authorities, since Rahu and Ketu are aprakasha or 
shadowy planets, they will reflect the qualities of the lord of the (zodiac) sign they are in. If 
Rahu 1s in located Leo, a sign ruled by the Sun, look to the position of Sun in the chart and 
expect similar effects for Rahn. 


S 


Sun “herbal” Astral Talisman 
A completely flawless red garnet 
adorns this herbal pendant 
hand crafted in 21k gold 

Piece no. 880 


10 


Ul 
Gemstone Powers 


“The Sun manifests Ins brilliance in a ruby although tt is agem.” 
Sri Brahma Samhita: 5/49 


astrological & piezoelectric powers of gemstones are derived from 
T h = the special cosmic influences of their associated ruling planets. The 
term “planet” used in Sidereal astrology refers to a celestial body or 
“point” which has the property of attraction & radiation. Hence the Sun (a star), the Moon 
(a satellite of the Earth), and Rahu and Ketu (two points of concourse of orbits of the Earth 
and the Moon) are referred to under the somewhat forced name of “planets.” Uranus, 
Neptune, Pluto, and a host of others are considered to have no effect on human affairs. 
These move in the heavens with ranging velocities influenced by other forces. (Ref. Astrology 
For Beginners by B.V. Raman, Chapter I, Page 5). Prof. B. Suryanarain Rao states that “Men 
are continuously subjected to the influences of Planetary rays.” These planetary rays are 
radiated as gravitational, electrical and magnetic energy fields which are transmitted as peizo- 
electric light waves. These light waves can be measured from their smallest part as fractional 
parts of a millionth of an inch, to ones which are millions miles in length. Each of the nine 
planets (nava-graha ) influences us according to it’s nature. Therefore, a knowledge of these 
planetary influences is essential to any understanding 
of gemstones and their powers. 


The ancient gemological texts of India explain that white light is actually composed of seven 
primary and two secondary colors blended together. The seven colors are red, orange, yellow, 
green, blue, indigo and violet; the other two colors are ultra-violet and infra-red. The seven 
primary colors become visible in the form of a rainbow whenever white light is defracted 
through a prism or rain drops; but the two secondary 

colors always remain invisible. 


The nine planets and their cosmic colors 


These nine colors are understood to be the cosmic matrix and very essence of the nine 
planets; and it is through these colors that the planets radiate their energy and influence. 
When the visible colored-light waves are measured, infra-red exhibits the longest wave length 
and ultra-violet, the shortest. It is important to note that the wave length of colored-light 
emanating from the nine planets is believed to match those radiating from each planet’s 
corresponding gemstone(s). For example, the wave length of light emanating from the Sun is 

identical to that exhibited by a ruby—both are red. 


Il 


Svi Navaratna Talisman 
crafted in 21k yellow gold 
Piece no. 23 


12 


Among all the elements in nature, natural jewels constitute the most condensed form of con- 
centrated color. Gems provide an inexhaustible source of cosmic color rays. These planetary 
gemstone colors are described in this chapter under their ruling planet. 


The following pages list the special influences exerted on human affairs by each of the nine 
planets along with the particular powers ascribed to their 
corresponding gemstones. 


Nava Graha, the Nine astrologically 
important planets are deified here as 
depicted in ancient Hindu legends, 
with their Sanskrit names. 

It is these hierarchy who 

rule the Nine Gems 

on Earth 


Sun Talisman Ring 
Flawless red ruby 
crafted with herbal 
ashes in 18k gold 
Piece no. 10229 


14 


Surya© Sun 


T.. Sun is the sovereign planet of the zodiac, furnishing the light and heat upon 
which all life depends. The Sun’s position in a person’s horoscope determines his or her 
external appearance and public persona and provides the energy for one’s personal power 
and influence over others. The Sun governs the fields of philosophy, government service, 
churches and temples, the medical profession, gold trade and public fame. Solar energy is 
associated with the fire element, the color red, fatherhood and masculinity, royalty and 
political power. 


If the Sun is exalted one will be well-read, pious, strong, compassionate and untroubled. 
But if the position of the Sun in one’s horoscope is weak or afflicted then contrary results 
may be expected. RED is the cosmic color believed to be transmitted by rubies and other 
natural red gems. Red color waves are hot and therefore useful in curing diseases caused 
by excessive cold and moisture in the body, viz. cold, flu, anemia, low blood pressure, 
heart and circulatory problems, as well as foolish behavior and learning deficiencies. In 
addition, Solar gemstones confer courage, eliminate sadness, moderate excess sensuality, 
and help elevate one’s status in society. 


GEMSTONES ruled by the Sun are natural ruby, red spinel, red garnet, rubellite and 
other natural pink or red gems with crystal clear transparency. In order to properly 
transmit solar energy, Sun stones must be flawless (eye-clean) and should be set in gold. 


Influence of Ruby / red spinel: 


If Sun is well placed in your horoscope: 
The influence will be toward nobility, dignity, power, leadership, and confidence. One will 
be well-read, pious, strong, compassionate, and untroubled. 


Tf Sun is ill placed in your horoscope: 
The influence will be toward lack of confidence, low self esteem, and little energy. One will 
be rebellious by nature, and negative results may be expected. 


NOTE: As the Sun is incompatible with Saturn, Venus, Rahu and Ketu, Sun gems such as 
ruby should not be used with blue sapphire, diamond, hessonite or cat’s eye. Specifically 
designed talismans like the Navaratna (Nine Gems setting) are an exception to this 


principle. 


The particular hue or type of red color recommended for each 
social-religious-economic station of society are listed as follows: 


1) Religious practitioners and educators should use pink red 
(most women are also advised to use pink or lighter shades) 


2) Soldiers and politicians should use blood red 


3) Farmers and traders should use orange red 


4) Servants and workers should use violet to dark red 


Deity form of Surya 


18: 


Moon Talisman 


Natural Pearl Pendant 
Perfect 100% “natural” 
Pearl weighing 3.5 carats 
(very rare) crafted in 21k 
yellow and 18k white gold 
Piece no. 3972 


For and on nana of Be 
Camere tor Gematone Testing Limcted 


a Pe we we heme 
ee ee) — a =~ 


i Se a a a a 
es eS Eek EE 


16 


Chandra > Moon 


T.. Moon governs the mind, and it’s position in one’s horoscope determines a person’s 
habitual patterns of thought, feeling and volition. It rules all professions associated with water, 
such as sailing and fishing, and it influences the tidal patterns of oceans and seas as well as bodily 
fluids. Lunar energy is associated with the water element, the color white, motherhood and 
femininity, romance and love. The Moon is a soft, sensitive planet with fluid, feminine qualities. 


If the Moon is exalted one will be wealthy, industrious and respected. But if the position of the 
Moon is weak or afflicted then contrary results may be expected. Diabetes, alcohol and drug 
abuse, and all types of emotional distress are also associated with debilitated Lunar energy. 
ORANGE is the cosmic color believed to be transmitted by pearls and other Lunar gems. 
Orange color waves are cold and therefore useful in treating diseases of the bodily secretions and 
blood caused by excessive heat in the body. Fine Moon jewels are known to be helpful in cases of 
mental derangements caused by an excess of heat in the heart and brain. Moon astral talismans 
will also enhance all mental faculties, pacify emotions, induce tranquility, and improve artistic 
creativity. 


GEMSTONES ruled by the Moon are natural pearl & moonstone. Flawless (eye-clean) gems are 
required in order for Moon astral talismans to properly transmit beneficial Lunar energy. 


Influence of (natural) Pearl / moonstone: 

If Moon 1s well placed in your horoscope: 

The influence will be toward sensitivity, good habits, stability, and health. One will be wealthy, 
industrious, and respected. 

If Moon 1s ill placed in your horoscope: 

The influence will be toward overreaction and depression. One will be hypersensitive to stress, 
and negative results may be expected. 

NOTE: As the Moon is incompatible with Rahu and Ketu, Moon gems such as pearl should not 
be used with hessonite or cat’s-eye. Specifically designed talismans like the Navaratna (nine gems 


setting) are an exception to this principle. 


The particular hue or type of pearl color recommended for each 
social-religious-economic station of society are listed as follows: 


1) Religious practitioners and educators should use white 
2) Soldiers and bureaucrats should use pinkish white 


3) Farmers and traders should use yellow to yellowish white 


4) Servants and workers should use gray to blackish 


Deity form of Chandra 


i? 


Jupiter Astral Pendant 


Flawless natural yellow sapphire 
hand-crafted in 21k yellow gold 


“double Jupiter” pendant. 
Piece no. 9 


18 


Brihaspat Jupiter 


upiter is the most auspicious and beneficent planet. Wealthy and influential individuals 
generally possess a strong Jupiter in their horoscopes, and this reflects the rich rewards of positive 
karma accumulated in previous lives. Jupiter governs religious activity, financial affairs, personal 
happiness, and teaching. Jupiter also determines one’s spiritual orientation. It is associated with 
the color yellow, the bodily fluids, education, pilgrimage places, and transcendental wisdom. The 
Sanskrit name for Jupiter is “guru,” indicating a source of divine knowledge and spiritual insight. 


If Jupiter is exalted one will be a leader of men, powerful, respected, although susceptible to 
anger. But if the position of Jupiter in a person’s horoscope is debilitated Jupiter can cause 
personal unhappiness, egotism, sloth, and legal problems. LIGHT BLUE is the cosmic color 
believed to be transmitted by yellow sapphires and other natural yellow gems. Light blue color 
waves, being very cold, relate to the ethereal nature and are helpful in curing diseases of the 
glands, the fat system and bodily cavities. Jupiter astral talismans are known to enhance spiritual 
understanding, facilitate pregnancy and childbirth, improve marital relations, increase one’s 
fortune, and help balance the endocrine system. Jupiter jewels are known to be especially 
favorable to women by increasing their happiness and contentment. 


GEMSTONES: Jupiter’s energy is transmitted by natural yellow sapphires, topaz, citrine, 
heliodor, and other flawless (eye-clean) yellow gems. 


Influence of Yellow Sapphire / yellow topaz 
If Jupiter is well placed in your horoscope: 

The influence will be toward humanitarianism, spiritualism, optimism, faith, and good judgment. 
One will be powerful, respected, and a leader of men, although susceptible to anger. 

Lf Jupiter is ill-placed in your horoscope: 

The influence will be toward greed, pessisism, egotism, and selfishness. One will be uncaring, 
unhappy, and have a negative outlook. 

NOTE: As Jupiter is incompatible with Mercury and Venus, Jupiter gems such as yellow sapphire 
should not be used with emerald or diamond. Specifically designed talismans like the Navaratna 
(nine gems setting) are an exception to this principle. 

The particular hue or type of yellow color recommended for 
each social-religious-economic station of society are listed 

as follows: 

1) Religious practitioners and educators should use light yellow 


2) Soldiers and bureaucrats should use orangy yellow 


3) Farmers and traders should use golden yellow 


4) Servants and workers should use greenish yellow 


Deity form of Brihaspati 


Io 


Rahu Herbal Talisman Ring. 

Exceptionally fine Burmese hessonite, 

colored like a combination of “honey, blood & 
Moon light”, hand-crafted in 18k yellow gold 
“tubes ring” containing the sacred herbal 
ashes for Rahu, Durva-bhasma. Rahu symbols 
set with precious cat’s eyes adorn the sides of 
this ultra-cool piece 

Piece no. 400 


20 


Rahu > Moon's North Node 


ahu is by nature a malevolent planetary influence which can cause personal 
R frustration, sacrileges habits, abuse of alcohol and drugs, possession of ghosts 

and demons, and infectious diseases. However, when located in a powerful position in 
one’s horoscope, Rahu can elevate one to positions of great wealth and power and confer public 
influence over the masses. Rahu is associated with serpents, fear, karmic retribution, and un- 
virtuous under world characters. 


Persons with Rahu exalted are wealthy and fortunate. But those with a weak or afflicted Rahu in 
their horoscope have a tendency to suffer from fear of supernatural phenomena and suicidal 
impulses. ULTRA-VIOLET is the cosmic color believed to be transmitted by hessonite and 
other orange gems. Ultra-violet color waves are the coldest of all the cosmic rays and should be 
used for ailments caused by extreme over-heating, i.e., high fever, hyper-acidity, indigestion, 
hyper-sexuality, insomnia, and during child birth. Rahu astral talismans may also help divert 
disasters, prevent insanity, counteract poisons, and protect one from demoniac influences. Rahu 
is particularly associated with scientific genius and the ability to deal successfully with people of 
lower status, such as servants, employees, and underworld characters. In India, it is still common 
practice to place a fine hessonite gem into the mouth of a deceased person before cremation. 
This is to insure that the dearly departed will not be obstructed by Rahu on their journey 
through time. 


GEMSTONES governed by Rahu include hessonite, spessertite, zircon (hyacinth), and other 
natural gems of golden-orange to brownish-orange hues. Only flawless (eye-clean) stones 
transmit beneficial Rahu energy. 


Influence of Hessonite / orange zircon 
If Rahu is well placed in your horoscope: 
The influence will be toward originality, inspiration, insight, and uniqueness. One will be exotic, 
wealthy and fortunate. 

If Rahu is il placed in your horoscope: 

The influence will be toward mental disease, addiction, illusion, and trouble. One will have a 
volatile nature, and a tendency to suffer from fear and suicidal impulses. 

NOTE: As Rahu is incompatible with Sun and Moon, Rahu gems such as hessonite should not 
be used with ruby or pearl. Specifically designed talismans like the Navaratna (Nine Gems 
setting) are an exception to this principle. 

The particular hue or type of orange color recommended for 
each social-religious-economic station of society are listed 

as follows: 

1) Religious practitioners and educators should use light orange 


2) Soldiers and bureaucrats should use reddish orange 


3) Farmers and traders should use golden orange 


Deity form of Rahu 


4) Servants and workers should use brownish orange 


21 


Mercury Talisman Pendant. 
Completely clear Burmese Peridot 
hand-crafted in 21k yellow 

Gold “stealth” pendant 

Piece no. 407 


22 


Budha 2 Mercury 


ercury governs intelligence and therefore rules such fields as education, literature, 
Mi communication, and public speaking. It is associated with the earth element, cold, 

energy, the color green, agriculture, travel, and the nervous system. Endowed with 
youthful, fast-moving energy, Mercury appears prominently in the horoscopes of people who are 
playful, enthusiastic, and talkative. Mercury also governs astrologers, clerks, accounts, sculptors, 
and any other profession requiring skillful use of the hands. Mercury enhances the ability to learn 
languages, improves memory, and facilitates the power of speech. People with a strong Mercury 
generally have the ability to perform activities quickly and handle several matters simultaneously. 


If Mercury is exalted one will be educated, happy, fortunate and highly respected. But if Mercury 
occupies a weak or harmful position in one’s horoscope, one becomes prone to speech and 
hearing impediments, deceptive behavior, and lack of vitality. GREEN is the cosmic color 
believed to be transmitted by emeralds and other green gems. Green color waves relate to the 
earth element and are cold by nature. This color, being heavy, influences the heavy organs of the 
body such as the flesh, liver, kidneys and intestines. Mercury astral talismans are also known to 
enhance psychic powers, improve memory and learning, strengthen the nervous system, and 
provide protection against snakes and envious people. 


GEMSTONES governed by Mercury include emerald, peridot, tsavorite, chrome tourmaline, 
chrome diopside, green jade and other natural green gems of flawless (eye-clean) quality. 


Influence of Emerald / tsavorite 

If Mercury is well placed in your horoscope: 

The influence will be toward rationality, wit, skillfulness, and dexterity. One will be educated, 
happy, fortunate, and highly respected. 

If Mercury is ill placed in your horoscope: 

The influence will be toward aloofness, difficulty with communication, lack of concentration, 
and slowness. One becomes prone to speech and hearing impediments, deceptive behavior, and 
lack of vitality. 

NOTE: As Mercury is incompatible with the Moon, Mercury gems such as emerald should not 
be used with pearl or moonstone. Specifically designed talismans like the Navaratna (Nine gems 


setting) are an exception to this principle. 


The particular hue or type of green color recommended for each 
social-religious-economic station of society are listed as follows: 


1) Religious practitioners and educators should use light green 
2) Soldiers and bureaucrats should use bluish green 


3) Farmers and traders should use yellowish green 


ea aT | 


4) Servants and workers should use dark green ; 
Deity form of Budha 


23 


Venus Talisman Ring 


= 
*. Fine pear cut diamond 
* hand-crafted in 18k white Ps 
7 gold “Shukra” ring - 
_" Piece no. 3673 YA 
+ Pl 
a - 4 
— Ys 
— — 
_——————— 


24 


Shukra2 Venus 


enus is a beneficent planet which rules sex and sensuality, love and marriage, 

material comfort and luxury. Singers and dancers, artists and craftsmen, actors 

and prostitutes, and other professions involved in entertaining people are 
strongly influenced by Venus’s sensual energy. A person with a strong Venus in his or 
her horoscope tends to have a happy marriage, enjoy material comforts, is optimistic and 
charismatic, makes others happy, and moves with physical grace and coordination. Diplomats 
and peacemakers are often governed by Venus. Venus is associated with flowers, jewels, and 
other beautiful objects, as well as semen, sweet foods and flavors, tropical climates, sexual 
activity, nice clothes, and various other sensual pleasures. People with a powerful Venus often 
experience distress of the excretory system due to overindulgence in food and drink. 


When Venus is exalted one will be humanitarian, long-lived and possess many good qualities. 
But if the position of Venus in one’s horoscope is weak or afflicted, one becomes vulnerable to 
loss of libido, impotence and sterility, venereal (lit. of Venus) complaints, and rapid aging. 
INDIGO is the cosmic color believed to be transmitted by diamonds and other colorless gems. 
This color influences all watery elements in the body, especially mucous and sperm. Venus astral 
talismans are known to induce purity of body and mind, confer artistic talent and worldly 
happiness, strengthen the bones, and improve the quality of all bodily secretions, such as 
mucous, hormones, and semen. The Sanskrit name for the planet Venus is “Shukra” which also 
means semen. 


Venus transmits its cosmic energy through diamonds, quartz crystals, zircons, goshenites, white 
topaz, white sapphires, and other colorless gemstones with clear transparency. Various subtle 
hues such as pink, yellow and blue tints are suitable for different types of professions and social 
positions, as long as the gem is void of solid color. 

Influence of Diamond / colorless quartz 

If Venus 1s well placed in your horoscope: 

The influence will be toward attractiveness, grace, elegance, and longevity. One will be refined, 
humanitarian, and possess many positive qualities. 

Tf Venus 1s ill-placed in your horoscope: 

The influence will be toward vanity, lewdness, sensual corruption, and lack of both taste and 


refinement. One becomes vulnerable to loss of libido, impotence, sterility, and aging. 


NOTE: As Venus is incompatible with the Sun and Moon, diamonds and other colorless 
gems should not be used with rubies or pearls. 


The particular tint of colorless gems recommended for each 
social-religious-economic station of society are listed as follows: 


1. Religious practitioners and educators should use white 
2. Soldiers and bureaucrats can use pinkish white 


3. Farmers and traders should use yellowish white 


4. Servants and workers should use blueish white 


Deity form of Shukra 


25 


Ketu Astral Talisman. 

A super-fine chrysoberyl 

cat’s eye gem hand-crafted 

in 18k white & yellow gold 
herbal “Happy Tube” pendant. 
Piece no. 7082 


26 


Ketu ~ Moon’s South Node 


K etu is a mysterious planetary influence which, like Rahu, is malevolent and afflictive 

unless located in a powerful position or conjoined with a beneficent planet. Ketu governs 
theology, monastic life, crime and punishment, hidden enemies and dangers, and the occult. Unless 
correctly balanced, Ketu can cause poverty and other obstructions in one’s life. Ketu is associated with 
suffering and the consequent aspiration for spiritual liberation. 


If Ketu is exalted one will be and wealthy and protected from evil. But if Ketu appears in a weak or 
harmful position in one’s horoscope, one becomes prone to fatal diseases of a mysterious nature as 
well as compulsive gambling. INFRA-RED is the cosmic color believed to be transmitted by cat’s eye 
gems. Infra-red color waves are the hottest of all the cosmic rays and are known to be useful in many 
chronic and terminal illness such as cancer and all forms of paralysis. Infra-red color also aids digestive 
problems and skin diseases. Ketu astral talismans can also enhance psychic powers, confer protection 
from hidden enemies, and avert dangers such as drowning, intoxication, and criminal punishment. 
Ketu is also said to bring good luck to gamblers (if well-placed). 


GEMSTONES ruled by Ketu include Cat’s eye chrysoberyl, beryl, apatite,tourmaline and other 
yellow to greenish-brown gems which display a strong chatoyant “cat’s eye” light reflection on the 
surface and often within the crystal when cabochon cut. These gems should also possess a high degree 
of transparency in order to properly transmit beneficial Ketu energy. 


Influence of Chrysoberyl Cat’s Eye / fibrolite cat’s eye 
If Ketu is well placed in your horoscope: 

The influence will be toward spiritualism, intuition, universality, subtleness, and sensitivity. One will 
be wealthy and protected from evil. 

If Ketu 1s ill placed in your horoscope: 

The influence will be toward eccentricity, explosiveness, fanaticism, and emotional problems. One 
becomes prone to compulsive gambling and fatal diseases such as cancer. 

NOTE: As Ketu is incompatible with Sun and Moon, cat’s eye gems should not be used with rubies 
or pearls. Specifically designed talismans like the Navaratna (nine gems setting) are an exception to 
this practice. 

The particular hue or type of cat’s eye color recommended for 
each social-religious-economic station of society are 

listed as follows: 

1) Religious practitioners and educators should use yellow 

2) Soldiers and bureaucrats should use honey 


3) Farmers and traders should use yellow green 


4) Servants and workers should use dark green 


Deity form of Ketu 


27 


Saturn Talisman Ring 
Crystal clear Blue Sapphire 
with matching diamonds 
hand-crafted into an 18k 
white gold talisman ring 
Piece no. 4172 


28 


Sham >. Saturn 


aturn is a powerful planet whose position in one’s horoscope strongly influences one’s 

work and employment, as well as obstacles one must overcome in order to succeed in one’s 
chosen field. Saturn is associated with the color blue, darkness, obstinacy, gambling, and chronic 
diseases. It governs aging and death, yoga practice, foreign travel, hunters and thieves. While 
malevolent by nature, when properly placed or balanced Saturn can also induce great virtues, such as 
compassion, charity, longevity, meditative insight, and positive public influence. 


When Saturn is exalted one will be long-lived, charitable, lavish, proficient and an affectionate mate. 
But if Saturn is weak in a person’s horoscope, one becomes vulnerable to headaches, neuralgia, and 
other disorders of the nervous system, as well as epilepsy, stupidity, and fainting. VIOLET is the 
cosmic color believed to be transmitted by blue sapphires and other natural blue to violet gems. Violet 
color waves are related to Saturn, the planet which governs suffering and poverty. Saturn also rules 
the entire nervous system. Therefore, most diseases of the nerves, such as neuroses and nervous 
tension may be caused by an afflicted Saturn. Saturn being the slowest planet also causes diseases of a 
chronic nature and can cause delays if ill-disposed. Saturn Astral Talismans are known to help 
strengthen a person’s nervous system. They also repel envy from others, avert demoniac influences, 
provide protection against dangers during travel, make one more serious and far-sighted, and induce 
mental tranquility. 


Saturn transmits its cosmic energy through blue sapphires, blue spinels, tanzanite, indicolite, iolite, 
amethyst and other natural blue to violet gems with transparent clarity. Only flawless gems possess the 
capacity to properly transmit positive astral energy from Saturn. 


Influence of Blue Sapphire / indicolite (blue tourmaline) 
Lf Saturn is well placed in your horoscope: 

The influence will be toward discipline, responsibility, realism, durability, and humility. One will be 
long-lived, charitable, proficient, and an affectionate mate. 

Lf Saturn is ill placed in your horoscope: 

The influence will be toward depression, anxiety, fear, loneliness, and disappointment. One becomes 
vulnerable to headaches, neuralgia, and other disorders of the nervous system. 

NOTE: As Saturn is incompatible with Sun, Moon and Mars, Saturn gems such as blue sapphire 
should not be used with ruby, pearl or red coral. Specifically designed talismans like the Navaratna 
(nine gems setting) are an exception to this principle. 

The particular hue or type of blue color recommended 

for each social-religious-economic station of society 

are listed as follows: 

1) Religious practitioners and educators should use light blue 


2) Soldiers and bureaucrats should use violet blue 


3) Farmers and traders should use greenish blue 


4) Servants and workers should use dark blue Deity form of Shani 


29 


Mars Symbol Pendant 
Flawless Red Coral, 
the gem for Mars, 
hand-mounted in 

this 21k yellow gold 
“Mars” symbol 

Piece no. 133 


30 


Mangala- Mars 


ars is a masculine planet which radiates an intense and fiery energy. Mars governs 

soldiers and warfare, ambassadors and orators, restaurateur and cooks, athletes and pilots, 
real estate and construction. It rules the color red, the metal element, vegetation, and the basic energy 
of life. The position of Mars in one’s horoscope determines relations among brothers, courage and 
strength, vitality and sexual drive. When Mars is powerfully placed, a person becomes highly energetic 
and devotes his or her energy to constructive endeavors and worthy causes. When afflicted, Mars 
causes a person to behave erratically and waste energy on worthless pursuits. A severely debilitated 
Mars often indicates a violent temper and destructive tendencies. 


When Mars is exalted one has great energy, is learned, well-known and regal, But if Mars is located in 
a weak or afflicted position in one’s horoscope one becomes prone to boils (due to impure blood), 
unstable blood pressure, anemia, and violence. YELLOW is the cosmic color believed to be 
transmitted by coral and other ochre colored gems. Yellow color waves are related to the lymph 
nodes, bone marrow, blood, and head. Mars astral talismans may help to strengthen these vital 
elements. They also help avert violence and warfare, moderate lust, improve finances, and reduce 
mental depression 


Gemstones ruled by Mars include natural coral, carnelian, and other pink to red ocher colored gems. 
As always, the use of fine quality gems, free of defects, is imperative for transmission of auspicious 
astral energy rays. 


Influence of Red Coral / red carnelian 


If Mars is well placed in your horoscope: 
The influence will be toward positive energy, strength, courage, passion, and aggression. One will be 
active, have great energy, be learned, well-known and regal. 


If Mars is ill-placed in your horoscope: 
The influence will be toward anger, irritability, instability, impatience, and aggression. One becomes 


prone to violence and physical problems such as high blood pressure, anemia, and impurities in the 
blood. 


NOTE: As Mars is incompatible with Mercury and Saturn , Mars gems like red coral should not be 
used with emerald or blue sapphires. Specifically designed talismans like the Navaratna (nine gems 
setting) are an exception to this principle. 


‘22 


The particular hue or type of reddish ochre color recommended 
for each social-religious-economic station in society are listed 
as follows: 


<r. 


1) Religious practitioners and educators should use pink red 


Uy 


2) Soldiers and bureaucrats should use blood red 


aaah | 


3) Farmers and traders should use orange red 
Deity form of Mangala 


4) Servants and workers should use brown red 
In order to transmit pure, unobstructed astral energy rays, gems must be free of flaws. Gems with 


defects are considered to have formed in a “diseased” condition. Next we will see what the Vedas have 
to say about gemstone clarity. 


al 


An example of clarity 


Flawless hessonite crystal & four 
diamonds hand-mounted in 18k 
yellow gold Rahu symbols ring 
Piece no. 118 


32 


IV 
Gemstone Clarity 


“"Tf anyone wears a gem with many 
flaws (even) out of ignorance, 
then grief, anxiety, sickness, death, loss 
of wealth and other evils torment them." 


GARUDA-PURANAM: 70.19 


“A gem free from all impurities and radiating its 
characteristic internal luster should be looked upon 
as an “escort” of good luck. A gem which is cracked, 
fissured, devoid of luster, or appearing rough or 
sandy, should not be used at all.” 


AGNI-PURANAM: 246. 7-8 


H ere are ancient Vedic references from both the Garuda Puranam and the Agni Puranam 
which state emphatically that “flawed” gemstones are inauspicious, while “clean” gems are bringers 
of good fortune. Note: As they did not have high-powered microscopes in the ancient times it 
stands to reason that flawless means “eye-clean.” 


After 30 years of researching and experimenting with gemstones, it is our carefully considered 
opinion that the old Vedic texts are correct. Flawed gems are simply a source of misfortune, not to 
mention their being ugly! Think about it! How many people are prepared to tolerate “defects” in 

their clothing, or any other personal items which they possess. Even a single scratch on a nice 
automobile is an eye-sore, so why do people tolerate flawed gems? How can one read through 
cracked eye-glasses? 


Think of a gemstone like a radio crystal. The crystal receives and transforms the invisible radio 
sound waves into audible sound. If the crystal is defective the sound will be 
distorted and unpleasant. 


As stated before, gemstones are natural transmitters on Earth of Piezoelectric “astral” energy 
waves radiated from the Navayraha or Nine planets recognized by the Vedic science of “sidereal” 
astrology. It is common sense that only “clean” gems will transmit “undisturbed” 
astral energy waves 


At present, the gem trade has lost much of its integrity because of the widespread treatment of 
natural gems to conceal or “change” imperfections. Especially guilty are the emerald dealers who 
“oil” flawed gems as a routine procedure (the oil enters the gem through internal cracks which 
break the surface of the stone). The gold smith (and the owner) are unaware of the defective 
condition which often results in broken stones. Even if the stones make it past the setter, the oil 
will dry out in a few years and the “ugly” flaws will again become visible. This confuses the owner 
who may even think that the stone has been switched. 


ao 


There ARE eye-clean, beautiful emeralds on this planet but they are scarce and costly. If one 
cannot afford the cost of an auspicious emerald then one can opt for an “pa-ratna or 
“secondary gem.” In place of emerald for the planet Mercury (Budha-graha ) one could use 
tsavorite (green grossularite), chrome-green or green tourmaline, chrome-green or green 
diopside, green peridot or green jade. Jade, being an “aggregate” (made up of tiny crystals all 
fused together) is less preferable than the other Mercury gems which are “single unit” crystals. 


Along with the Navaratna or nine “primary” gems, there are many other “natural” 
gemstone choices based on color. These “upa-ratnas” are less expensive than their precious 
counterparts and yet they conduct the same astral energy of their associated planet. They are 
also easier to find without flaws or treatment. 


Here is a list of the foremost upa-ratnas 
known to man, along with their ruling planets: 


¢ 


1) Red spinel, red garnet and red tourmaline (rubellite) are ruled by the Sun; 

2) Moonstone and white coral are ruled by the Moon; 

3) Yellow topaz, yellow beryl, yellow tourmaline and natural citrine are ruled by Jupiter; 
4) Orange zircon, spessartite and other orange garnets are ruled by Rahu; 

5) Tsavorite, green tourmaline, diopside, peridot and green jadeite are ruled by Mercury; 
6) White (colorless) sapphire, white topaz, zircon and quartz are ruled by Venus; 

7) Beryl, apatite and tourmaline cat’s eyes are ruled by Ketu; 

8) Blue spinel, iolite, blue tourmaline and amethyst are ruled by Saturn; 


9) Carnelian and bloodstone are ruled by Mars 


¢ 


REMEMBER: Whatever gem(s) you use should be flawless, because according to ancient 
Vedic wisdom only “eye-clean” gems are helpful and attractive, while visibly flawed gems are 
defective and disturbing! 


Left: A clean Jyotish 
quality natural Emerald. 
Right: A flawed harmful 
quality Gunk” Emerald 


Having described in brief the individual nature and powers of the nine planetary gemstones 
along with the upa-ratnas (semiprecious gems), we will now elaborate on their preparation 
and use as astrological talismans. 


34 


Some of the “Uparatna” gems mentioned on the facing page. 
Listed horizontally from top left to lower right: 


Red garnet, red spinel, rubellite, moonstone 

Moonstone, carnelian, bloodstone, green diopside 

Green jade, heliodor, citrine, white zircon 

White topaz, white sapphire, quartz, blue spinel 

Spessartite, orange zircon, fibrolite and tourmaline cat’s eyes 


3a 


A "Nava Ratna" ring set with nine perfect gems. In 
the center 1s a flawless (loupe clean) "ved lotus" 
colored Burmese RUBY surrounded (clockwise from 
the top) by flawless diamond, flawless "natural" pearl, 
flawless red coral, flawless hessonite, flawless blue 
sapphire, flawless cat's eye, flawless yellow sapphire, 
and flawless emerald 


Astral Gemstone Talismans 


“A reflection of the Sun may be experienced in place of the Sun, 


but it’s wlumination is never possible independent of the Sun.” 
Sri Chaitanya Charitamrita: 
Madhya-lila, chap.25, verse 117 


careful study of the foregoing information on the nature and cosmic influence of the 9 
planets in sidereal astrology will provide a better understanding of the astral power each planet 
exerts over the destiny of human beings. Furthermore, when one has determined through correct 
astrological calculations which planets exert the strongest influences over one’s life, one can then 
manipulate these cosmic forces by the proper use of kavacas or astrological talismans. 


Since ancient times sages and alchemists of the East have revealed the precise science relating the 
elements of nature with the nine planets, as well as the proper method of combining these astral 
elements into powerful talismans. This information was originally derived from ancient Vedic texts, 
and it was from these Oriental sources that Western alchemists and astrologers derived their 
knowledge, most of which was kept secretly confined to the initiated higher circles. 


It is stated in the SECRET TEACHINGS OF ALL AGES by Manley Hall that, “The rays of the 
celestial bodies, striking the crystallizing influences of the lower world, become the various 
elements. Partaking of the astral virtues of their source, these elements neutralize certain 
unbalanced forms of celestial activity and, when properly combined, contribute much to 
the well-being of man.” 


The philosopher Agrippa has described in Three Books of Occult Philosophy the basic 
preparation of astrological rings as follows: “When any star (planet) ascends fortunatly (i.e., located 
in an auspicious position in the horoscope), with the fortunate aspect or conjunction of the Moon, 

we must take a stone and herb that is under that star, and make a ring of the metal that is suitable 
to this star, and in it fasten the stone, putting the herb or root under it, not omitting the 
inscriptions of images, names and characters, as also the proper suffumigations.” 


Although currently displaced by the meaningless system of birthstones described in Chapter II, 
the true science of “planetary gemology” is still being practices by Asian (and some Western) 
astrologers. The ancient system of panca-amrita - the 5 immortal nectars, is based simply on the 
proper combination of the planetary gemstone, metal, herb, symbol and number which 
corresponds to the planet that is to be enhanced. The Vedic process of puja or invocation of the 
planetary energy by means of a mantra (sound invocation) and stotra (prayer) represents the 6th 
amrita whereby the mind uses special sound vibrations. After the talisman has been carefully 
prepared, one should first perform the appropriate rites of invocation & purification. On the 
appointed day and at the specified time one should immerse the gemstone-mounted talisman in 
either pure cow’s milk (if available) or purified water; and while bathing it in sanctified incense 
smoke one should recite the mantra and stotra dedicated to the specific planet the appropriate 
number of times. Only then should one begin using their talisman. 


On the following pages we have listed the necessary information and ingredients which are 
relevant to the preparation and use of planetary kavacas or talismans. Ancient texts do recommend 
certain gemstone carat weight limitations, so it is important to realise that larger gems are 
considered to be more powerful than smaller gems of the same fine quality. NOTE: For 
recommended gemstone color based on one’s social-economic station refer to the previous chapter. 


ay 


Sun Talismans 


Planet to be strengthened: 
Cosmic color to be enhanced: 
Recommended gemstone: 
Rudraksha: 

Alternate gemstones: 
Solar/Lunar metal to be used: 
Alternate metal: 

Herbal ashes to be used: 
Cosmic number to be used: 
Planetary symbol to be used: 
Hand to be worn on (if a ring): 
Affected element: 

Affected sense: 

Affected bodily organ: 
Affected anatomical system: 
Affected chakra: 

Day for invocation; 


Time for invocation: 


Mantra of invocation: 


Stotra of invocation: 


Sun (Surya) 

Red 

Ruby (Padmaraag) 

1 face & 12 faced 

Red spinel, garnet or rubellite 
Gold 

Copper 

Milk weed (Arka-bhasma) 
1 

© 

Right 

Fire 

Sight 

Eyes 

Bone 

Manipura 

Sunday 


Sunrise 


“Aum grinth suryaya namah.” 


(repeat 7 times) 


“Aum-japa kusuma samkasam 


kasya peyam maha-dyutim, 
tamoham sarva papagnam 


pranato’smi divakaram.” 


Sun Astral Talisman. 
Flawless top-red spinel 
hand-crafted in 18k gold. 
Piece no. 1822 


38 


Moon Talismans 


Moon (Chandra) 
Orange 

Natural Pearl (Mukta) 
Moonstone 

2 faced & Gauri-Shankar 
Silver or white gold 


Planet to be strengthened: 
Cosmic color to be enhanced: 
Recommended gemstone: 
Alternate gemstones: 
Rudraksha: 

Solar/Lunar metal to be used: 
Herbal ashes to be used: 
Cosmic number to be used: 
Planetary symbol to be used: 
Hand to be worn on (if a ring): 
Affected element: 

Affected sense: 

Affected bodily organ: 
Affected anatomical system: 
Affected chakra: 

Day for invocation: 


Time for invocation: 


Mantra of invocation: 


Stotra of invocation: 


ay 


Butia Frandosa (Palasa-bhasma) 


2 
pepe apne 
Left ws 
oe E167 A 
Water — eee 
Taste PS SES Phineas on 
Tongue rn ee eae 
a 
Blood 
Svadtistana ad kee 
Monday Sees La) ee 
Evening “Natural pearl” certificate 


“Aum som somaya namah.” 


(repeat 11 times) 


“Aum dadhi sankha tusarabham 


chira-arnava samudbhavam, 


namami sasinam somam 


shambhor mukuta bhusanam.” 


Moon Astral Talisman. 

Perfect 2 carat “natural pearl” 
(extremely rare) set in 18k gold 
with herbal ashes for the Moon 
sealed in the tubes 

Piece no. 10329 


Jupiter Talismans 


Planet to be strengthened: 
Cosmic color to be enhanced: 
Recommended gemstone: 
Alternate gemstones: 
Rudraksha: 

Solar/Lunar metal to be used: 
Alternate metal: 

Herbal ashes to be used: 
Cosmic number to be used: 


Planetary symbol to be used: 


Hand to be worn on (if a ring): 


Affected element: 

Affected sense: 

Affected bodily organ: 
Affected anatomical system: 
Affected chakra: 

Day for invocation: 


Time for invocation: 


Mantra of invocation: 


Stotra of invocation: 


Jupiter (Brihaspati) 

Light blue 

Yellow sapphire (Pushparag) 
Yellow topaz, citrine or heliodor 
5 faced 

Gold 

None 

Ficus Religiosa (Pippala-bhasma) 
3 

24 

Right 

Ether 

Sound 

Ears 

Fat 

Ajna 

Thursday 


One hour before sunset 


“Aum brim brihaspataye namah.” 


(repeat 19 times) 


“Aum-devanam ca rishinam ca 
gurum-kanja nasam nibham, 
budhyi bhutam trilokesam 


tam namami brihaspatim.” 


Jupiter Astral Talisman. 
Perfect yellow sapphire 
hand-crafted in 18k gold. 
with herbal ashes inside 
the twin tubes 

Piece no. 6142 


40 


Rahu Talismans 


Planet to be strengthened: Rahu (North Node of the Moon) 
Cosmic color to be enhanced: Ultra-violet 

Recommended gemstone: Hessonite (Gomeda) 

Alternate gemstones: Orange zircon and spessartite 
Rudraksha: 8 faced 

Solar/Lunar metal to be used: Silver or white gold 

Alternate metal: Iron 

Herbal ashes to be used: Cynodon Dactylon (Durva-bhasma) 
Cosmic number to be used: 4 

Planetary symbol to be used: $2 

Hand to be worn on (if a ring): Left 

Day for invocation: Saturday 

Time for invocation: 2 hours after sunset 

Mantra of invocation: “Aum ram rahave namah” 


(repeat 18 times) 


Stotra of invocation: “Aum-ardhakaya maha-virya 
candra dvitya vimardaman, 
simhika-garbha sambhutam tam 


rahum pranamamy-aham.” 


Rahu Astral Talisman. 
Clear Tahitian-orange 
hessonites, the gem for Rahu, 
set in a 18k gold “Thai 
Window” tube pendant 
Piece no. 10058 


41 


Mercury Talismans 


Planet to be strengthened: 
Cosmic color to be enhanced: 
Recommended gemstone: 


Alternate gemstones: 


Rudraksha: 

Solar/Lunar metal to be used: 
Alternate metal: 

Herbal ashes to be used: 
Cosmic number to be used: 


Planetary symbol to be used: 


Hand to be worn on (if a ring): 


Affected element: 

Affected sense: 

Affected bodily organ: 
Affected anatomical system: 
Affected chakra: 

Day for invocation: 


Time for invocation: 


Mantra of invocation: 


Stotra of invocation: 


42 


Mercury (Budha) 
Green 
Emerald (Panna) 


Green jade, peridot, green tourmaline, 


chrome diopside, and tsavorite 
4 faced 
Gold 


None 


Achyranthes (Apamarga-bhasma) 


5 

S 

Right 

Earth 

Smell 

Nose 

Flesh 

Sahasrana 
Wednesday 

2 hours after sunrise 


“Om bum budhaya namah.” 


(repeat 9 times) 


“Aum-priyangu kalika syaman 


rupena pratimam budham, 


SOMYAM somya guno petam 


Mercury Astral Talisman. 
Flawless green tourmaline 
hand-crafted in 21k gold 
“Stupa” pendant 

Piece no. 1782 


tam budham pranamamy-aham.* 


» 


Venus Talismans 


Planet to be strengthened: 
Cosmic color to be enhanced: 
Recommended gemstone: 


Alternate gemstones: 


Rudraksha: 

Solar/Lunar metal to be used: 
Alternate metal: 

Herbal ashes to be used: 
Cosmic number to be used: 
Planetary symbol to be used: 
Hand to be worn on (if a ring): 
Affected element: 

Affected sense: 

Affected bodily organ: 
Affected anatomical system: 
Affected chakra: 

Day for invocation: 


Time for invocation: 


Mantra of invocation: 


Stotra of invocation: 


Venus Astral Talisman. 
Fine white diamond 
empowers this unique 

Venus symbol “circle tube” 
pendant crafted in 21k gold 
Piece no. 9041 


Venus (Shukra) 

Indigo 

Diamond (Vajra) 

Colorless zircon, quartz, topaz, 
white sapphire, and beryl (goshenite) 
6 faced & 13 faced 

Silver 

Platinum 

Ficus Glomerata (Audumbara-bhasma) 
6 

g 

both 

Water 

Taste 

Lymph glands 
Sperm 
Vishuddln 
Friday 


Sunrise 


“Om shum shukraya namah” 


(repeat16 times) 


“Aum hima kunda mrida labham 
daityanam paramam gurum, 
sarva sastra pravantaram 


bhargavam pranamamy-aham.” 


Ketu Talismans 


Planet to be strengthened: 
Cosmic color to be enhanced: 
Recommended gemstone: 
Alternate gemstones: 
Rudraksha: 

Solar/Lunar metal to be used: 
Herbal ashes to be used: 
Cosmic number to be used: 


Planetary symbol to be used: 


Hand to be worn on (if a ring): 


Day for invocation: 


Time for invocation: 


Mantra of invocation: 


Stotra of invocation: 


44 


Ketu (South Node of the Moon) 
Infra-red 


Cat’s eye chrysoberyl (Sutramanz) 


Cat’s eye apatite, tourmaline & beryl 


9 faced 


Silver or white gold 


Sacrific 
7 

oS 
Right 


ial grass (Kusa-bhasma) 


Thursday 
Midnight 


“Aum kem ketave namah.” 


(Repeat 18 times) 


“Aum-palamsa puspa samkasam 


taraka graham-astakam, 


raudram raudrat makam-ghoram 


han 


tam ketum pranamamy-aham. 


Ketu Astral Talisman. 
Clear golden cat’s eye 


d-crafted in 21k gold. 


herbal pendant 


Piece no. 858 


» 


Saturn Talismans 


Planet to be strengthened: 
Cosmic color to be enhanced: 
Recommended gemstone: 
Alternate gemstones: 
Rudraksha: 

Solar/Lunar metal to be used: 
Alternate metal: 

Herbal ashes to be used: 
Cosmic number to be used: 


Planetary symbol to be used: 


Hand to be worn on (if a ring): 


Affected element: 

Affected sense: 

Affected bodily organ: 
Affected anatomical system: 
Affected chakra: 

Day for invocation: 


Time for invocation: 


Mantra of invocation: 


Stotra of invocation: 


45 


Saturn (Shanz) 

Violet 

Blue sapphire (Neelam) 

Blue spinel, amethyst & indicolite 
7 faced & (especially) 14 faced 
Gold 

Iron 

Prosopis (Shami-bhasma) 

8 

nr 

Right 

Air 

Touch 

Skin 

Nervous 

Anahata 

Saturday 

2 hours 40 minutes before sunset 


“Aum sham shanaiscarayanamah.” 


(repeat 23 times) 


“Aum-nilanjana samabhasam 
ravi-putra yama-agrajam, 
chaya martanda sambhratam 


tam namami sanaiscaram.” 


Saturn Astral Talisman. 
Flawless bule sapphire 
mounted in a herbal ball 
pendant crafted in 18k white 
Gold and 21k yellow gold 

Piece no. 4468 


Mars Talismans 


Planet to be strengthened: 
Cosmic color to be enhanced: 
Recommended gemstone: 
Alternate gemstones: 
Rudraksha: 

Solar/Lunar metal to be used: 
Alternate metal: 

Herbal ashes to be used: 
Cosmic number to be used: 


Planetary symbol to be used: 


Hand to be worn on (if a ring): 


Affected element: 

Affected sense: 

Affected bodily organ: 
Affected anatomical system: 
Affected chakra: 

Day for invocation: 


Time for invocation: 


Mantra of invocation: 


Stotra of invocation: 


46 


Mars (Mangala) 

Yellow 

Red coral (Moonga) 

Carnelian and reddish bloodstone 
3 faced 

Gold 

Silver 

Couch plant (Khadira-bhasma) 
9 

oa 

Right 

Fire 

Sight 

Genitals 

Marrow 

Muladhara 

Tuesday 


1 hour after sunrise 


“Aum ang angarakaya namah.” 
(Repeat 19 times) 


“Aum-dharani garbha sambhutam 
viddat kanti sama prabham, 
kumara-sakti hastam tam 


mangalam pranamamy-aham.” 


Mars & Jupiter Astral Talisman. 
Red coral gem and matching 
yellow sapphires hand-crafted in 
21k gold. Piece no. 892 


Sri Nava Ratna, 
nine flawless 
talisman gems 
hand-crafted in 
18k yellow gold 
Piece no. 10127 


Sri Navagraha Yantra 


Setting System of Nine Gems 


Rare sample of a 
Vedic gem chart 
showing the correct 
arrangement of the 
Nine Gem Nava- 
Ratna 


Zircome| 


Throughout the Orient, especially in India, Sri Lanka, Thailand, and Burma (all 
ancient gemstone producers), special importance has always been given to certain 
combination gemstone talismans. the most well-known of these are the NAVA-RATNA 
(9 gems), SAPTA-RATNA (7 gems), PANCHA-RATNA 
(5 gems), and the TRI-RATNA (3 gems). 


47 


Si Nava Ratna 


For countless centuries, the cultures of India and South-East Asia have 

revered the beautiful 9 gem talisman known as “Navaratna”. Combining the 

gemstones representing each of the nine planets in sidereal astrology, the 
SRI NAVA-RATNA is esteemed by ancient tradition as a bringer of good fortune through its 

favorable influence on the planetary energies. 
The most well-known design places a ruby, representing the sun, in the center encircled by the other 8 
planetary gemstones, diamond for Venus, pearl for Moon, coral for Mars, hessonite for Rahu (the 
moon’s ascending node), blue sapphire for Saturn, cat’s-eye for Ketu (the moon’s descending node), 
yellow sapphire for Jupiter and emerald for Mercury. 


The following stotra may recited before using the nine gem talisman: 


“Aum brahma murari, tripuranta-kari, 
bhann, shasi, bhauma-suto, buddhasca, 
gurusca, shukra, sham, rahu, ketu, 
sarve-graha shanti-kara bhavantu.” 


“T invoke the Supreme Deity who is creator, maintainer, and destroyer of the universe, and the deities 
presiding over the Sun, Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn, and the shadow planets 
Rahu and Ketu - May all these planets bestow peace.” 


SRI SAPTA-RATNA, the seven jewels talisman, combines the gems which 
correspond to the planets ruling the seven days of the week. Every day of the week is governed over by a 
specific planet. In many languages the days are named directly after the planet that rules over them. In 
English we must simply examine the Anglo-Saxon origin of the names of the days to see the 


48 


correspondence. Sunday (Sun), Monday 
(Moon), and Saturday (Saturn) still remain 
intact. In practically every other language from 
Latin to French to Hindi to Thai - the weekdays 
are directly named after their ruling planet 


The Sapta-ratna should be used as 7 different 
rings or pendants to be worn successively on 
each corresponding day of the week. This 
practice is still popular in India, especially 
among astrologers, royal families and The Queen Sirikit 
wealthy people. Nava Ratna 


July 9, 1993 


5 


Pictured (clockwise from top): 
unique examples of Sri Sapta Ratna, 
Sri Nava Ratna, Sri Tri Ratna, 
and Sri Pancha Ratna. 


SRI PANCHA RATNA, the five jewels 
talisman, combines the gemstones which 
represent a balance of the 5 material elements. 
Thus earth is represented by the green in 
emerald, water by the blue in sapphire, fire by 
the red in ruby, air by the yellow in topaz, and 
space by the absence of color in diamond. 
Another combination of the 5 gems has been 
described as gold for earth, pearl for water, ruby 
for fire, blue sapphire for air, and 
diamond for space. 


SRI TRI-RATNA, the three 
jewels, is a talisman believed to balance the 3 constituents of one’s material body, crudely 
translated as marrow, mucus and air. These are represented by the 3 primary cosmic colors in 
nature — red, yellow and blue, or ruby, red coral and yellow sapphire. 


In conclusion, we must again point out that gemstones selected for astrological and talismanic 
use should be flawless (eye clean), as defective stones are considered a source of misfortune. 
According to Vedic authority, the qualities of fire (color) and water (clarity) are the most 

important factors in choosing gems which are pure transmitters of benign planetary influence. 


49 


Above and facing page: two “Sri Nava Ratna” pendants 
each set with nine perfect gems. In the center 1s a flawless ruby 
surrounded (clockwise from the top) by diamond, moonstone (for pearl), 
red coral, hessonite, blue sapphire, chrysoberyl cat’s eye, 
yellow sapphire, and tsavorite (for emerald) 
Piece no. 9214 


S 


50 


Sri Nava Ratna: Following are bona fide ancient Vedic references on Planetary Gemology: 


(The great sage) Sri Suta Goswami, has spoken the following words in the ancient Garuda-puranam, chap 
70, regarding the dawn of creation: 


“The blood of the great demon Vala was taken by Surya, the Sungod, who then fled into the blue vastness of 
space... Ravana attempted to block Surya’s flight like a solar eclipse... Appearing afraid of Ravana, the Sungod 
dropped the demon’s blood, which fell down in the deep pools of ancient Bharata (which included Burma, Siam, 
India, and of course Sri Lanka)....Beautiful and effulgent rubies, in all shades of color, possessing manifold 
virtues, originated on these shores....The rubies from these fragrant lands are found in a variety of hues....Some 
are like human blood, etc.....Being illuminated by rays of the Sun, this crystal species shines forth with wonderful 
color and brilliancy.” 


NOTE: Here is a Vedic link between Surya (Sun) and rubies. 
In chapter 69 it is further stated by Sri Suta Goswami: 


“The teeth of the demon Valu....fell like stars into the oceans below and became seeds for a species of gems with the 
luster of full Moon beams. Entering into the shells of oysters these seeds became (natural) pearls.” 


NOTE: Another ancient link that matches the nine planets (Graha-devas) with their associated gems, viz., 
natural pearl for Chandra, the Moon. 


There are nine foremost gems which are known as the Nava-ratna. This quote attributed to the Sanskrit 
“Brihat Jatak” or Vast Production, reads as follows: 


Manikyam dinanayakasya vimalam muktaphalam shitagoh 
maheyasya cha vidrumam marakatam saumyasya-garutmakam 
devejyasya cha pushparagam sura-achryasya vajram shaneh 
nilam nirmalamanyayoshcha gadite gomeda-vaiduryake 


Translation: The Sun’s gem is pure ruby, Moon is (natural) pearl, Mars is red coral, Mercury is emerald, 
Jupiter is yellow sapphire, Venus is diamond, Saturn is blue sapphire, Rahu is hessonite, and Ketu is cat’s 
eye. 


A slightly different version of this ancient Sanskrit verse is also quoted in the “Mani-mala” page 575, verse 
79 by S. M. Tagore (1879), and also in the ancient “Jataka Parijata,” chap. 2, sloka 21 compiled by Sri 
Vaidyanatha Dikshitar (son of Venkata-dhari), and reads in Sanskrit as follows: 


Manikyam taraneh sujatyamamalam muktaphalam shitagoh 

maheyasya cha vidrumao nigaditah saumyasya-garutmakam 

devejyasya cha pushparagam asura-achryasya vajram shaneh 
nilam nirmalamanyayoshcha gadite gomeda-vaiduryake 


Translation: 


1) Ruby for the Sun, 

2) Pearl for the Moon, 

3) Coral for Mars, 

4) Emerald for Mercury, 

5) Yellow sapphire for Jupiter, 

6) Diamond for Venus, 

7) Blue sapphire for Saturn, 

8) Hessonite for Rahu (the ascending node of the Moon) 
9) Cat’s eye for Ketu (the descending node of the Moon), 
these gems must be high-born (top quality) and flawless 


In this important sloka the words, “sujatyam-amalam” (sujati=high born, and amala=completely pure or 
flawless) are very significant. According to bona fide Vedic authority only clean top quality gems are 
considered to be auspicious. 


In essence the Asian Birth Stone systems are given in the next chapter on Gem Choosing. 


51 


VI 
Choosing Your Planetary Gem 


First an explanation of 
Anukul / Pratikul 


he Planetary Gemology World is divided into two (2) opposing philosophies, viz., 
Anukul-vad v/s Pratikul-vad: 


ANUKULA-VAD: A gem will act “SAME” as it’s planet - So gems should be chosen for 
Anukul (favorable) planets 


PRATIKUL-VAD: A gem will act “OPPOSITE” of it’s planet - So gems should be 
chosen for Pratikul (unfavorable) planets 


Anukul Planet’s gem choosing method for resorting to or harnessing one’s auspicious 
(Anukul) planet(s) (exalted, mulatrikona, own sign, benefic, great friend, good house, owner 
of good house, etc.) based on the concept that lucky planet = lucky gem! In Jyotish there 
are basically two broad categories of planetary position, viz., favorable (for the chart) - 
Anukul OR unfavorable (for the chart) - Pratikul. One should avoid their weakness and 
cultivate their strengths. “Ratna-anukul” means the auspicious gem of the strongest most 
desirable planet. Example: One has Leo Lagna - their lagna lord is Sun, who is exalted 
(100% strength) and posited in the 9th house which is all very auspicious. That person 
would be advised to use a fine ruby, the Sun’s gem, to attract or harness his auspicious 
influence. On the other hand if a person had Saturn debilitated (0% strength) and in the 8th 
house they would be advised to avoid Saturn’s gem blue sapphire and all other Saturnine 
things or activities. And better still they could donate a blue sapphire to pacify Shanideva. 
The followers of Anukul-vad believe that the pratikul-graha color is the unlucky color, and 
to magnify that bad color will simply increase the problems caused by that unlucky Planet. 
Both methods believe that gems increase cosmic colors of their planets, thus for an Anukuli 
it is considered to be suicide to increase a pratikul-graha’s color. In Anukul there is never a 
case where a Pratikul (harmful to the chart/native) planet’s gem should be worn as it will 
surely increase the ill fortune; but such gems for a Pratikul planet can be used by 
DONATING them - giving them AWAY - according to Shastric directions. A pure anukuli 
believes that a pratikul-gem is NEVER good to use; it is increasing the cosmic poison, and ill 
fortune (a person’s bad cosmic vibes) should NEVER be increased. —-RIGHT 


Pratikul Planet’s gem choosing method for strengthening or reversing a weak or evil planet, 
based on the misconception that a ‘pratikul’ (inauspicious) planet is strengthened by wearing 
it’s gem and there by it changes from being inauspicious (pratikul) to become auspicious 
(anukul). ILLOGIC: By providing the gem for a malefic planet, benefic results will follow. 
Example: A person has Jupiter debilitated and a malefic which is inauspicious or pratikul, but 
by wearing Jupiter’s gem, yellow sapphire or another yellow Jupiter jewel, it is believed that 
the ‘weak’ (troublesome) Jupiter gets strengthened and REVERSES to become auspicious. 
Some persons opine that a harmful planet means that the planet’s “cosmic color” is weak. 
The gems for the planets are concentrated essential cosmic color rays; so by wearing the gem 
for that Pratikul (harmful) color the weak color is strengthened, and when the weak or evil 
color is stronger then the harmful influence will be REVERSED. —-WRONG 


Before describing the most popular methods, let me first say that choosing gems which are 
favorable (Anukul for the native’s chart) as well as clean (amala) and auspicious, these two 


52 


AC 


$2 og » 
are a MUST in planetary gemology. Of the 6 PGA CODES the prohibition against 
astrological use of synthetics is the least of all PG evils as synthetics have no harmful effect 
because they have NO effect whatsoever. The most important considerations are Anukul- 
graha gem choosing and flawless gems - 100% loupe clean down to 80% loupe clean is an 
acceptable range in our experience. Always exercise CAUTION with any gem that has clarity 
below 80% loupe clean. Very flawed gems are dead due to serious life-ending defects, and 
according to Shastra, “If anyone wears a gem with many flaws (even) out of ignorance, then 
Grief, anxiety, sickness, death, loss of wealth and other evils torment them.” 
— Sri Garuda Purana:1.70.19 


When choosing gems we must add up the pluses in a chart. For example, one chart has a 
planet that is strong, in a good house, but a functional malefic, and lord of a two bad houses, 
so on the surface we have two pluses and three minuses or “+ + - - -” , L.e., a good sign 
placement, a good house placement, but it is unfavorable by nature for the native, and is lord 
of two bad houses. Another chart might have a debilitated planet that is a functional benefic, 
and in a good house, and lord of a good house and lord of a bad house, so that means a “- + 
++ -” In the first example we could rule the planet as border line unfavorable (pratikul), but 
the 2nd case has the planet more favorable (anukul) - so a beneficial planet that is weak by 
placement could be made stronger. And a strong anukul planet can be made even stronger to 
attain certain goals, like making an exalted Sun even stronger because the native desires fame 
or increase in stature - provided the horoscope indicates that native has the karma to achieve 
that, because we cannot do better than our karma. 


Taking this further one could see planetary periods in motion, movements of Saturn, Yogini- 
dashas, as well as aspects, navamsa positions, etc., to first of all conclude if the planet in 
question is FAVORABLE - OR - UNFAVORABLE for the chart, all things considered. It 
doesn’t matter if a planet is strong or weak, it only matters that the planet is judged as 
favorable (anukul-graha) or unfavorable (pratikul-graha). An anukul-graha can always be 
strengthened, but a pratikul-graha should never be strengthened 


Gems for Pratikul-grahas may be DONATED or GIVEN AWAY in a form of Vedic charity to 
achieve Graha-shanti (pacification an evil planet) is another subject known as, “Ratna- 
arpana.” Using gems as donations is he only time an unfavorable planetary gem should be 
used by the native - by giving it AWAY. The native should be informed what planets are most 
FAVORABLE for them and then the native may choose from among their Anukul-graha- 
ratnas or favorable planetary gems. 


Adding the plus and minus points to determine which planets are most favorable to the native 
enables us to proceed further... 


tee! 


1. First look to the /agna or rising sign and then check the lord of the rising sign to see if it is in an 
auspicious condition in the rasi chart. If this is the case then we wholeheartedly prescribe the 
gemstone ruled by the lagna’s lord. Example: If one has Leo rising we look to the position of the 
Sun (Lord of Leo) in the chart. If the Sun is posited in an auspicious position in the chart, then it 
will act in a beneficial way. If this is the case then we may recommended ruby or another “Sun 
jewel” as one’s “agna-mani.” 


NOTE: [f the birth time is unknown or unsure then skip this method... 


A list of the primary rising sign gems is given as follows: 


RISING SIGN (Lagna) RULING PLANET GEMSTONE 
Aries Mars Red Coral 
Taurus Venus Diamond 
Gemini Mercury Emerald 
Cancer Moon Pearl 

Leo Sun Ruby 
Virgo Mercury Emerald 
Libra Venus ine _ Diamond 
Scorpio > 

Sagittarius 

Capricorn 

Aquarius 

Pisces 


54 


\ 


. 


25 


- 


hy 


4 eS 


2. We next check the position of the planet ruling one's mahadasha or major planetary period. If 
this planet is well-placed in both the rasi as well as the navamsa charts then we prescribe that 
planet's gemstone(s) for use during the duration of the mahadasha period. Example: If one is in 
or entering a Jupiter mahadasha and if Jupiter is posited in an auspicious sign and/or house 
position, then we recommend yellow sapphire or another natural yellow gemstone as one’s Dasha- 
mani. At the time of ones birth a certain planetary period will be in motion. Ifa person is born in 
the middle of their Venus major period then they still have 10 more years of major Venus 
influence before they change into their Sun period at the age of 10 years. Each major planetary 
period follows a certain order and is ofa fixed period of time - this information is given as follows: 


a 
a 


SUN PERIOD: 6 years 


MOON PERIOD: 10 years 


MARS PERIOD: 7 years 
RAHU PERIOD: 18 years 


JUPITER PERIOD: 16 years 
SATURN PERIOD: 19 years 
MERCURY PERIOD: 17 years 


KETU PERIOD: 7 years 


VENUS PERIOD: 20 years 


Depending on the period in operation when one is born, the soul will pick 2 periods ape 
pass through them in succession in the order given above. ) 


3. Next we look to one’s birth sign or Moon rasi , i.e., the sign in which the Moon is posited at 
the time of one’s birth. In sidereal astrology the Moon’s sign position is considered very 
important. Example: If one’s Moon is in the sign of Leo, a sign ruled-ky the Sun, then we must 
look to the position of the Sun in the horoscope. If the Sun is locate@>igg an auspicious position in 
the chart then we can recommend a ruby or other red Sun jewel as one’s “vasi-ratna.” 


The list of these Vedic “birthstones” as shown in Chapter II is repeated again here 


for easy reference: 


BIRTHSTONE RULING PLANET MOON SIGN 
Ruby Sun Leo 

Pearl Moon Cancer 

Coral Mars Aries /Scorpio 
Emerald Mercury Gemini/Virgo 
Yellow Sapphire Jupiter Sagittarius /Pisces 
Diamond Venus Taurus/Libra 

Blue Sapphire Saturn Capricorn /Aquarius 
Hessonite Rahu N/A 

Cat’s eye Ketu N/A 


op) 


4. We then check the janma-naksatra or the constellation in which the Moon is posited at birth. 
Each of these 27 birth stars is ruled by one of the nine planets recognized in sidereal astrology. 
Example: If one’s birth constellation is “punarvasu” (the 7th constellation), which is ruled by 

Jupiter, then we look to the position of Jupiter in the horoscope. If Jupiter is located in an 
auspicious position then we can recommend yellow sapphire or another yellow “Jupiter” jewel 


Som, 


as one’s “nakshatra-mani.” 


Following is a list of the 27 constellations, their ruling planet and corresponding gemstone: 


BIRTH STAR (Moon Nakshatra) RULED BY GEM 

ASWINI KETU CAT’ SEYE 
BHARANI VENUS _~ DIAMOND 
KARTIKAI SUN # RUBY 

ROHINI MOON PEARL 

MRIGASIRA “MARS = CORAL 

ADRA RAHU HESSONITE 
PUNARVASU JUPITER YELLOW-SAPPHIRE 
PUSHYAM SATURN BLUE-SAPPHIRE 
ASLESHA MERCURY EMERALD 
MAGHAM KETU CAT’S EYE 
POORVA-PHALGUNI VENUS DIAMOND 
UTTAR-PHALGUNI SUN... RUBY 

HASTAM MOON PEARL 

CHITRA MARS CORAL 

SWATI RAHU HESSONITE 
VISHAKAM JUPITER YELLOW-SAPPHIRE 
ANURADHA SATURN BLUE-SAPPHIRE 
JESTHA MERCURY EMERALD 
MOOLAM KETU CAT’S EYE 
POORVASHADA VENUS DIAMOND 
UTTARSHADA SUN RUBY 

SRAVANA MOON PEARL 
DHANISTHA MARS CORAL 

SATAVISHA RAHU HESSONITE 
POORVABADRAPADA JUPITER YELLOW-SAPPHIRE 
UTTARBHADRAPADA SATURN BLUE-SAPPHIRE 
REVATHI MERCURY EMERALD 


56 


5. Next we examine all the nine planets in 
the rasi chart to see if any are exalted. 
Planets which are in their sign of 
maximum strength (exaltation) give 
positive and beneficial results, and their 
gemstone(s) may be used with advantage. 


6. Another consideration is sign 
ownership . A planet which is located in 
it’s own sign will give beneficial results, 

and that planet’s gem can also be used to 
advantage. 


7. A further consideration is any planet 
which is in it’s sign of mulatrikona or 
trine. A Planet in mulatrikona gives 
beneficial results similar to an exalted 


planet, and their gem(s) may be used to 
advantage. 


8. A planet which is located in a friendly 
sign will also give beneficial results, and 
it’s gemstone may be used to advantage. 


9. A planet that is a benefic for the chart 
is also another consideration 


10. A planet.in-a good house (1, 2, 4, 5, 
7,9, 10; 11) is important. 


11. A planet that rules a good house is 
also significant, etc., etc. 
tf: 
12. Another consideration is preference 
based on tie characteristic “planetary 
influence.” Example: If a person wishes 
to use,a-Sun jewel like ruby otired spinel 
to increase their name and fame, then we 
will jcfommend that stone provided the 
person’s Sun is not located i in an 
unfriendly or inauspicious position in 
their sidereal horoscope. 
= é F ot 
NOTE: It iis our practiced and well-considered’ opinion thatefine, natural gemstones do indeed 
“strengthen” or magnify the astral and piezo-electric influence of their associated planets. 
Therefore, lucky planets = lucky gems. If a person intends'to wear their lucky gemstone then 
they should only use gems which are related to planets that are considered to be “lucky” or 
posited in an auspicious “anukul” position. Gemstones do not alter-or change the angle, posi- 
tion or condition in which planets are placed in one’ horoscope. Methods for propitiating or 
reducing the harmful effects of evil-or malevolently placed planets in one’s birth chart include 
the chanting of planetary mantras, prescribed sacrifices and charity. These may be performed 
along with the use of associated planetary gemstones to help propitiate the Grahadeva through 
charity and prayer. A person who is unwilling to perform these meritorious acts 
should not use gems for unlucky planets. 


af 


IMPORTANT: Which ever planetary gemstone(s) you choose must be free of visible flaws 
in order to properly transmit beneficial astral energy. Even though there is precious little 
direct information on the use of planetary gemstones in the Vedic texts, we do have the 

following quote from the ancient Agni-puranam, (Chapter 246, Verses 7 & 8): 


“A gem free from all impurities 
and radiating its characteristic internal luster 
should be looked upon as an “escort” of good luck. 
A gem which is cracked, fissured, devoid of luster, 
or appearing rough or sandy, 
should not be used at all.” 


With all these methods it is necessary to first cast a person’s sidereal horoscope or janma- 
patrika (birth chart). This requires very expert calculations based on one’s birth date, time 
and place. If one doesn’t know their birth “time” it is still possible to cast the horoscope 
accurately enough to see the planetary “sign” positions (although this is much less precise 
in other areas). After casting the horoscope, look to see if any of the planets are in 
“auspicious” rasi positions. All of these “auspicious” sign positions give good results. 
According to B.V. Raman, India’s leading astrologer, “A planet in it’s own sign is 
rendered powerful to do good. A planet in it’s sign of exaltation is rendered even more 
powerful to do good than in it’s own sign. A planet in it’s sign of mulatrikona is rendered 
powerful to do good similar to when in exaltation.” Planets which are in enemy signs or 
which are debilitated usually have harmful or inauspicious influences. Professor Raman 
also states that planets which are debilitated give results opposite of when in strong sign 
positions. In other words, “bad results.” 


The mighty Shanidev, Saturn, and his gem blue sapphire 


An example may be taken from one of my own experiences with gem therapy. According 
to my Sidereal horoscope I have some exalted (strong) planets, some weak planets and 
some negative planets. Saturn in particular is already a krura-graha or cruel planet and it’s 
position in my horoscope is even worse. Still, I was advised by some sidereal astrologers to 
use a blue sapphire, the gem for Saturn, in order to “pacify” or CHANGE Saturn’s 
harmful influence on me. This brings up the question of how gems should be chosen and 
what their effects will be. One group opines that gems should be used to “pacify” harmful 
planets; another group believes that gems should be used to “strengthen” weak planetary 
influences. While yet another belief is in “strengthening” beneficial or auspicious planets. 
Let me relate my own experience and tell what my final conclusion is. Every Sidereal 
astrologer who has read my chart points out that Saturn in Cancer in the Ist house is 
quite malefic and is causing me many of the more long lasting problems in my life. I was 
advised to wear a blue sapphire to “pacify” Saturn. After a long search I found a 7 carat 


58 


flawless, unburned, “Brahmin” colored blue sapphire from Burma. I bought the gem, immediately 
had it set into a special gold ring, and on Saturday, two hours and forty minutes before sunset, I 
installed the ring after reciting the appropriate mantras. 


Almost as soon as I started wearing this most auspicious blue sapphire I began having ill fortune. I 
started getting frequent headaches and my business started slowing down along with my energy 
level. Almost everything I did was beset with obstacles. Finally, after using the stone for almost 1 

year, I took it off in frustration. Later I had the opportunity to show my birth chart to Pandit 
Vidyadhar Shukla (the Chief Brahmin Priest of Thailand) who confirmed that Saturn was indeed a 
“bad influence” for me. He further suggested that as the blue sapphire had made matters worse 
this was a good case against the theory that gems “pacify” harmful planets. He suggested that I 
should wear a ruby to “strengthen” the Sun in order to over-power Saturn’s harmful influence. 
Since following this advice I have experienced much better effects on both 
my heath, business and over-all outlook. 


Surya, the Sun God 
empowers rubies, 
red spinels, 
red tourmalines, 
and red garnets. 


If Sun is well placed in 
your horoscope the influence 
will be toward: Nobility, 
dignity, power, leadership, 
confidence, one will be 
well-read, pious, strong, 
compassionate and 
untroubled. 


Lf Sun 1s ill placed in your 
horoscope the influence will 
be toward: Low self esteem, 
no energy, no confidence, 
bucking authority, contrary 
results may be expected. 


Flawless ruby mounted in 18k gold 


. 


Since Rahu and Ketu are Aprakasha or “shadow planets,” they reflect the qualities of the lord of 
the sign they occupy. Example: If Rahu is located in Virgo, a sign ruled by Mercury, you should 
look to the position of Mercury in the chart and predict similar results for Rahu. 


We welcome any input from readers about their own experiences with gems and their astral powers. 
Only stories involving the use of Jyotish quality gems are deemed useful. 


oY 


Sri Ganesha, the Vedic deity 
known to remove obstacles from 
the lives of his devotees, is here 
depicted with many arms in this 
hand-carved flawless red coral 
hand-mounted in 21k gold 


60 


ee| bl id 


VII 
Ancient Vedic Gem Lore 


| he Gemological institute of America, which today stands as the paramount authority in 


the field of gemology, was founded in 1931. For thousands of years, however, a sophisticated 
system of gemology has been practiced in the Orient. This knowledge is recorded in the Sanskrit 
language in specific Vedic Texts. Most of the principles governing this ancient gemological 
science are still practiced today, although modern scientific instruments have replaced trained 
eyes and fingers in the analysis and identification of gems. The basic methods, however, remain 
the same. 


Following are some summary translations of original Sanskrit texts appearing in the Garuda- 
puranam (chapters 68 thru 80), which pertain to the science of gemology. Due to its age 
(estimated to be over 5,000 years old), certain information may not be contemporarily relevant. 
But it is interesting to note the similarities between these ancient practices and 
modern methods of gem testing. 


Introduction 


The Legend of Vala 


Vedic Text 


Sri Suta Goswami said: I shall now expound the science of gemology. Long ago, in ancient times, 
there lived a great demon name Vala. Overpowering the King of Heaven, Indra, Vala became the 
tyrannical ruler of the entire universe. By deceit, however, the oppressed demigods tricked Vala into 
acting as the sacrificial animal in a ritual performance. But once Vala was tied to the sacrificial 

stake, the demigods suddenly abandoned their mock sacrifice, and immediately killed 
the powerful demon. 


61 


In fact, for the benefit of the demigods and the universe, Vala had allowed himself to be slain. 


The demigods then severed his various limbs which transformed into the creative seeds of precious 
gems. As the potent body of Vala was dismembered, a tumultuous roar sounded through the celestial 
regions, and all the deities, demons, mystics, and serpent-gods anxiously rushed to gather up the gem seeds. 
The demigods clamored to secure the gem seeds, but the shock waves generated by their celestial chariots 
pushed some of the mystical essences down into the earthly sphere. 
Some of these seeds fell into rivers, some into the oceans, and some into the forests and mountains. 
There they germinated as mother lodes of the various gems, each one imbued with 
its own intrinsic potency. 
All these gems posses talismanic powers. The fine, auspicious stones can counteract poison, snake 
venom, diseases, and other dangers. Poor quality, inauspicious gems act in the opposite manner. 
Ruby, emerald, blue sapphire, cats eye, yellow sapphire, diamond, pearl, hessonite, coral, 
bloodstone, quartz, jade, and red garnet are the foremost species of gems, and they should be selected only 
under the expert guidance of a learned gemologist. 
The value of a gemstone is established by reference to the authoritative gemological texts. Quality is 
analyzed according to weight, cut, color, and clarity. 


Ruby 


Vedic Text 


The blood of the high and mighty demon Vala was taken by Surya, the sungod, who then fled into the 
blue vastness of space. Ravana, the great king of Sri Lanka, who was puffed up with lis power and his 
victory over the demigods, attempted to block the sun-god’s flight in the sky like a solar eclipse. Appearing 
terrified of Ravana’s fearsome presence, the Sun-god dropped the demon’s blood, which fell down into the 
deep pools of Bharata which were surrounded by forests of betel nut trees and scintillating with sunlit 
waves. (Bharata or ancient India, as referred to in the text, included Burma, Siam, Afghanistan, 
Pakistan, Nepal, Tibet and of course, Sri Lanka.) 

From that time on, these pools became as holy as the sacred Ganges River and were known as 
Ravana-Ganga. The banks of these waters became covered with precious gemstones, all sparkling with 
dazzling splendor. Beautiful and effulgent rubies, as well as other colors of corundum, possessing manifold 
virtues, are the gemstones which originated on the perfumed shores of Ravana-ganga. 


62 


Exceptionally fine ruby, 
the gem for Suryadeva, 
hand-crafted in 21k gold 
with Arka-bhasma herbal 
ashes sealed within 

the tube frame. 


The rubies from these fragrant lands are found in a variety of hues. Some are red like human 
blood, while others resemble the red of pomegranate seeds. Some rubies are vermillion red and others are 
yellowish-red like saffron or shellac dye. These should be evenly colored with light shining from their very 

core. Being illuminated by rays of the sun, this crystal species shines forth with wonderful color and 
brilliancy, reflecting in all directions and spreading rays all around. 

Kuruvinda rubies are not so purely colored as those rubies of the “top crystal” quality and are 
somewhat lacking in clarity and luster. (According to Apti’s Sanskrit/English dictionary, both 
kuruvinda and padmaraga are names for ruby. But in the context of this book kuruvinda refers to 
rubies of inferior color and clarity while padmaraga denotes rubies that possess the finest (purest, 
unmixed) color and top crystal clarity. In this text, rubies of the finest quality are called padmaraga, 
“lotus-hued” while poorer quality rubies are referred to simply as kuruvinda “corundum.” It may also 
be noted here that the English name for corundum was derived from the ancient 
Sanskrit word kuruvindam). 

The most important features of a “top crystal” quality ruby are: (1) purity of color; (2) heavy 

specific gravity: (3) coldness of touch; (4) flawless and transparent clarity; (5) brilliancy; 
and (6) excellent proportions. 
The value of a ruby ts based primarily upon the purity of color and brilliancy. Any decreases in 
either of these qualities causes a proportionate decrease in value. 

The potency of a high-quality ruby 1s such that even an ignorant person living a sinful life and 
surrounded by deadly enemies is saved by wearing such a gem. Anyone wearing such a naturally 
effulgent ruby would be freed from diseases caused by any imbalance of the bodily functions. 

Faults that characterize lower quality rubies are: A coppery tinge, silky inclusions, cloudy or otly 
appearance, dullness, off-color and excessive darkness around the edges (girdle) when the stone is held 
between the fingers (covering table and culet). 
A potential ruby of exceptional quality should first of all be tested for specific gravity against a 
known ruby of the same size. A specimen which proves to be considerably lighter than the genuine ruby 
indicates that it belongs to another mineral species. 
In a situation where the results of testing proved inconclusive, one should use the scratch test, 
scratching the specimen with a known ruby. No other mineral except diamond or corundum can 
scratch a piece of genuine ruby or sapphire. 

A genuine ruby possessing all auspicious qualities should not be worn together with a gem of 
imperfect or flawed features or one belonging to a species that is (astrologically) incompatible with tt. 

One 1s advised not to wear a gem of poor quality or that is incompatible even if it is set together 
with the divine Kaustabha jewel. For as a host of saints lose their status by association with a single 
impure outcast, in the same way even one low quality or incompatible stone can spoil an 
entire setting of precious gems. 


63 


A ruby, although genuine, should not be 
worn tf it has strong color banding, 
excessive inclusions within like numerous 
internal cracks, a sandy appearance, a 
rough surface, or is dull and lusterless. 
Anyone using such a flawed ruby, even 
out of ignorance, will suffer from 
disease, or loss of fortune. 


Fine rubies 
set in 21k gold 


Sd 


X-ray Identity 


Natural Pearl 


Vedic Text 


The teeth of the great demon Vala, scattered throughout the celestial regions, fell like stars into the oceans 
below and became seeds for a species of gems with the luster of full moon beams. Entering into the shells of 
oysters lying within the ocean depths, these seeds became pearls. 

Oyster pearls found along the coasts of Sri Lanka, Bengal, and Persia, Indonesia and other lands 
located in the Southern Hemisphere are superior in shape, color, size, ad other qualities to those 
from other countries. 
Besides oyster pearls there are seven other types found in conch shells, wild boars’ heads, elephant 
heads, king cobra’s heads, bamboo stems, clouds, and fish heads. 

Pearls from elephant heads, bamboo stems, boar heads, fish mouths, and conch shells are lusterless, 
even though possessed of other auspicious qualities. Pearls from conch shells ave usually the size of a large 
kona (the large and of a drum stick), and they possess a color similar to their host shell. 

Fish pearls are perfectly round and symmetrical. They possess a yellowish hue like the scales of the 
pathenam fish which often inhabit the mouths of deep sea whales. 
Boar pearls are colored like a boar’s tusks and are found only in remote parts of the world. Such 
pearls are auspicious symbols of the Varaha board incarnation 
of the Supreme Lord, Sri Vishnu. 
Pearls derived from bamboo appear like hailstones in color, and they are found only within bamboo 
that has grown in a region populated by religious people. 


64 


Pearls from the cobra’s hood are perfectly round, like fish pearls, and they radiate a natural 
effulgence. By repeated washing, a snake pearl becomes as lustrous as a polished sword blade. Anyone 
possessing such a naga-mani attains piety, rare good fortune, and eventually becomes attains piety, rare 
good fortune, and eventually becomes illustrious as a leader of men, complete with a great collection of 
all precious gems. 

Upon acquiring such a snake pearl, the owner should have the rite of installation performed y a 
priest who is learned in religious formalities. After hearing from the owner how the pearl was obtained 
and conducting the benedictory ritual, the priest should formally install the jewel inside the owner’s 
house. On such an auspicious occasion, the sky becomes filled with dark and heavy rain clouds, thunder, 
and flashing lightning, such as exhibited at the time of universal dissolution. A man in possession of 
such a snake pearl will never be troubled by snakes, demonic beings diseases, or 
disturbances in any form. 

Cloud pearls, being naturally effulgent like the sun, tluminate the sky in all directions and 
dispel the darkness of cloudy days. Glowing brighter than the combined light of the moon, the twinkling 
stars, and fire, a cloud-born pearl dissipates even the darkest night exactly like the sunrise. A cloud 
pearl is so priceless that the entire earth, with her oceans filled with countless jewels and covered in layers 
of gold, would not be equal in value. Cloud pearls rarely reach this earthly world, because they are 
usually taken away by the demigods. 

Even a low born man would become supreme ruler of the entire world tf, as result of some past 
pious actions, he were to come into possession of such a pearl. The appearance of such a man on earth 
who obtained a cloud pearl during his lifetime would bring good fortune not only to himself, but to the 
entire human race as well. No form of evil could even touch the land within an 8,000 mile 
radius of his birthplace. 

An expert gemologist should appraise pearls according to their size, shape, and other qualities, 
rather than their place of origin. 
Oyster pearls are the only type capable of being drilled through their centers. This is the method 
used for drilling pearls: First, the pearls should be mixed in bowl of rice previously soaked in lime juice. 
After simmering for some time on low heat, the pearls should be removed and rubbed with cool boiled 
rice water. After soaking, they should be pierced through the center. 

To clean pearls they should be kept in a covered clay container and lightly boiled in either milk, 
water, or wine. Thereafter, they should be carefully rubbed in a piece of pure linen cloth until they 
regain their natural luster. This process of cleaning pearls was taught by the great Vyadli (Vyadhi was, 
according to the Sanskrit dictionary of V.S. Apte, a celebrated grammarian. Vyadhisa is a name for 
Lord Vishnu, most probably His Dhanvantari incarnation, in which form the Lord revealed the 
medical science to mankind. This latter meaning seems more suitable to this verse), out of his 
compassion for the learned and virtuous. 


65 


Pearls worn by either kings or men of noble rank should be kept in a glass container, soaking 
in a solution of mercury and gold. This is the process followed by pearl experts in Sri Lanka. 

The test for a genuine pearl is to soak the specimen overnight in a mixture of warm oil and 
salt. The natural pearl will remain unaffected. Another test is to rub the specimen pearl with a piece 
of dry cotton cloth and rice. A genuine pearl will no lose its color or luster in any way. 

A pearl of the highest quality should be white, translucent, round in shape, lustrous, and of 
Zood weight and size. 
A large, round white pearl with effulgent luster and with a clean, even hole drilled through 
its center, which charms even a person who 1s not even interested in pearls, should be considered as 
possessed of a rare, good quality. The owner of such a pearl will never suffer any form of il fortune. 
A pearl of the highest quality should be white, translucent, round in shape, lustrous, and of 
Zood weight and size. 
A large, round white pearl with effulgent luster and with a clean, even hole drilled through 
its center, which charms even a person who is not even interested in pearls, should be considered as 
possessed of a rare, good quality. The owner of such a pearl will never suffer any form of il fortune. 
A pearl of the highest quality should be white, translucent, round in shape, lustrous, and of 
Zood weight and size. 
A large, round white pearl with effulgent luster and with a clean, even hole drilled through 
its center, which charms even a person who 1s not even interested in pearls, should be considered as 
possessed of a rare, good quality. The owner of such a pearl will never suffer any form of il fortune. 


Sd 


Jupiter Astral Talisman. 
Flawless yellow sapphire 
hand-crafted in 18k white 
& yellow gold 

Piece no 371 


66 


Yellow Sapplure 


Vedic Text 


The skin separated form Vala’s dismembered body was transformed into mystic seeds from 
which originated yellow sapphires. 

These fell primarily upon the lands crowned by the Himalayas and there formed mines of these 
wonderfully endowed gems. Sapphires of white or light yellow color are known as pusparaga. Those which 
are orange are called kauranda. Other auspicious colors are golden yellow, rich yellow and greenish 
yellow sapphire. Yellow sapphires must be evenly colored, flawless and well shaped in order 
to be considered auspicious. 

The value of this gem is the same as a cat’s eye of equivalent color and clarity. 
The primary potency inherent in this gem is for blessing a woman with child birth even tf she has 
had difficulty. Also, as the energy of Jupiter, yellow sapphires confer happiness and prosperity upon those 
advised to wear them by a competent astrologer. 


A fine hessonite gem 
and matching diamonds 
adorn this Rahu Astral 
Talisman hand-crafted 
in 21k yellow gold 
Rahu symbol pendant 


Hessonite ™“”°™ 


Vedic Text 


Fingernauls of the great demon Vala were transformed into seeds of Karketana or hessonite 
gems, which are the rarest of the planetary jewels. Winds blew these hessonite seeds into the lotus 
ponds of Sri Lanka, India, and Burma. 

The ideal color for hessonite is an intense orange hue appearing like a mixture of honey, blood 
and moonlight with a brilliant copper-colored sparkle. Hessonites which are flawed, lack luster, 
or white or bluish in color are considered inferior and inauspicious. Hessonites of poor quality 
are common, while fine pieces are so rare that the ancients considered them the most blessed 
of all gems in the world. A pure hessonite sparkling with internal fire and set in a golden 
ornament ts the ultimate talisman, capable of increasing the life span, the progeny, and the 
happiness of its owner. It can also remover evil thoughts and motives from the owner’s mind. Any 
man possessing such a praiseworthy hessonite, even if only for ornamental purposes would surely 
become wealthy and famous in this lifetime. Other gems which appear similar to hessonite, such 
as orange zircon, can be separated by their differences of refractive index, specific gravity, and 
other gemological characteristics. The market value of fine quality hessonite should be 
determined by a gem expert with special emphasis given to size, quality and origin. 


67 


Emerald 


Vedic Text 


The bile of the great demon Vala was taken by the serpent king, Vasuki who split the heavens in 
two with one sweep of his mighty tail. With hood bedecked with jewels, his long body appeared like a 
bridge across the expanse of the heavens. 

At that time, Garuda, the eagle-king carrier of the Supreme Lord Vishnu and the sworn enemy 
of serpents, came flying through the heavens and blocked Vasuki with his mighty claws. Upon 
seeing Garuda, Vasuki became so afraid that the he dropped Vala’s bile to the earth near the 

beautiful forests and perfumed trees of Mt. Mantkya. (Since the mountain ranges of South Africa 
and South America are the world’s foremost producers of emeralds, one explanation would be that 
Mount Manikya consisted of the combined areas of these two continents prior to their separating.) 
It also descended upon the landlocked areas beyond the Himalayas. 
(Most probably present day Afghanistan and Pakistan). 

This bile transformed into the seeds of emeralds, and wherever it fell there originated mines of 
emeralds. Seeing this, Garuda picked up some of these emerald-seeds, but their power was so great 
that even he was overcome with a fainting spell causing him to scatter small 
quantities in several areas. 

The finest colors of emeralds are compared to the following elements in nature: the green color on 
the neck of a parrot; the color of a flower called in Sanskrit Shirisha; a blade of green grass; the 
color of fresh moss; the green found in a peacock’s feather; the green on the back of a firefly. Anyone 
possessing fine quality emerald of any of these shades of green ts blessed 
with great good fortune. 

Most of the areas where Vala’s bile fell, although exceptionally lush and beautiful, and rugged 
and hardly accessible. But the fine emeralds of these areas possess mystical powers, even to 
neutralize the poison of a king cobra. 

Ancient Indian gemologists have given the highest pratse to emerald possessing the following 
qualities: display a rich, even color; emit a soft glow; appear to glisten with gold dust inside; 
devoid of any serious internal or external blemishes. the gem also should be properly cut so that 
maximum light is refracted to the eye of one viewing it face up. 

The emerald of superlative quality shines like green lightning and brings joy at first sight. 

Of second quality is one colored grass green, flawless, but with lighter tone and appearing 

transparent in the center (windowed). Dark colored emeralds showing little glow or fire 
should be considered inferior to those before mentioned. 

Emeralds considered inauspicious are blackish, devoid of luster, appearing dirty inside or dried 
and brittle. Anyone concerned with their own well-being should never purchase or wear any 
oiled, dyed, or treated emerald. Also, emeralds of mixed colors ave strictly forbidden. 
Emeralds which are too light green are not considered true emeralds, but are called green beryl. 
Emerald substitutes can be detected by differences in specific gravity and refractive index. 

Simply by sight and touch experienced gemologists can discern these differences. 
Emeralds should be mounted in yellow gold, and worn, both by the doctor and patient, during 
the treatment of any disease, especially those caused by poison or 
an imbalance of the body’s vital airs. 
Top quality emeralds are deemed more valuable than a ruby of equal quality, 
while low quality emeralds are less valuable 
than comparable rubies. 


68 


"The Astrologer should 
use common sense - direct people 
away from their weaknesses and 
towards their strengths. For 
example, 
if debilitated Mars is in the 
second house and a person is 
having financial 
problems, don’t advise them 
to go into the 
construction business, which ts 
ruled by Mars (red coral). Find 
a strength in the chart and push 
them in that 
direction; for example, exalted 
Venus (diamond) in the tenth 
house could bring success in the 
entertainment or 
clothing business.”* 


A clean emerald-green 
tourmaline and two 
diamonds empower this 


Mercury & Venus Astral ee aur te Read Vouk 
Talisman bangle hand- Horoscope” pg. 280, para 2 
crafted in 18k white &% By Tom Hopke (Nalini-kanta). 
yellow gold The Vedic Cultural Association, 
Piece no 113 51 Coelho Way, Honolulu, 


Hawaii 96817. 1987 


69 


Diamond 


Vedic Text 


Wherever Vala’s bone fragments fell, they geminated diamond crystals of various types. 
Consequently, diamonds are found in the following colors: slightly brownish, white as the full moon, 
blackish like a rain cloud, coppery-hued, dark yellow, bluish, greenish, pink, and light yellow. 
Particular demigod preside over exceptionally fine diamonds of various colors. White diamonds of 

this standard are ruled by Varuna, lord of the oceans. Yellow diamonds are ruled by Indra, the 
heavenly king. The Maruts, the wind gods, rule copper-hued diamonds, the greenish diamonds are 
ruled by Surya, the sun-god. The fire-god, Agni, rules brown-colored diamonds, and blue tinged 
diamonds are ruled by the lord of ancestors, Aryama. 
Flawless, high-grade diamonds confer good fortune upon their wearers, whereas flawed diamonds 
are invariably a source of misfortune. 

Although a diamond may appear flawless internally, if any of its natural crystal edges appear 
fractured, or if it possesses an abraded, withered, or rough surface, it should not be kept within one’s 
household, for it can cause numerous tls. 

Anyone wearing a seriously flowed or clouded diamond which refracts a reddish glimmer from 
defective facet edges, will surely be abandoned by the goddess of fortune. A diamond containing red 
spots will bring ruin. 

A flawless diamond with an even out and smooth symmetrical facets, and a high degree of 
dispersion 1s rarely to be found even upon royal crowns. 

Rough diamonds are generally hexagonal (cubical), octagonal, and dodecahedral, and exhibit 
external growth markings are sharply angled facets. If one owns a rough diamond with a well-shaped 
crystalline formation, high transparency and brilliancy, and devoid of any blemished or visible 
inclusions, he acquires the following virtues: prosperity, longevity, marital happiness, children and 
livestock, and a good harvests. 

Auspicious diamonds help protect the wearer from attack by poisonous serpents, tigers, thieves, and 
deadly poisons. They protect his possessions from fire and flood and cause his complexion 
to become lustrous. 
Diamonds should not be worn by women, because they possess a mystic potency that causes 
women to become unhappy. * 


*Why diamonds are bad for women 


By Pandit Vidyadhar Shukla 
Chief Vedic Priest & Astrologer of Thailand 


According to the Shastras (Vedic 

scriptures) such as Sri Garuda Purana, 

diamonds should not be worn by women. 

This is because diamonds are ruled by the planet 
Venus (Shukra) who is the lord of sexual power 
and beauty. If women wear diamonds it will 
increase their sexuality. This often causes men to 
lose control of themselves and commit sinful 
activity. 


Diamonds abnormally increase a women’s sexual 
desire. This can lead to their being damaged both 
mentally, physically and socially. 


Diamonds are the hardest element known 
to man. A women who wears a diamond 
can become hard-hearted and unable to 
give proper affection to her husband and 
children. 


In summary it should be noted that women 
in ancient times did not wear diamonds 
weighing more than half a carat. Instead 
they used only small diamonds as accent 
stones in their jewelry. 


The power of diamonds is exactly in 
proportion to their size. 


70 


Venus Astral Talisman 
Clean diamond 
hand-crafted in 

18k white gold 

Piece no 1824 


Only a king 1s privileged to wear fancy colored diamonds of yellow, chartreuse, or pink colors. 
Their use by anyone in a lower station of life could prove harmful. 
A king wearing a diamond that flashes rays of light like bolts of lightning will surely be able to 
conquer other rulers and gain sovereignty over their wealth and followers. 
Because there are various diamond substitutes such as white topaz, zircon, hessonite, white 
corundum, chrysoberyl, quartz-crystal, and also man-made imitations like glass, it is important 
that all diamond specimens be tested for genuineness by qualified gemologists who are expert in the 
science of identifying and appraising precious gems. 
Before purchasing a diamond it should be positively identified through such tests as hardness and 
specific gravity. a genuine diamond, the hardest of all elements, cannot be scratched by 
any other metal or gemstone. 
The value of diamonds depends more on color and clarity than total weight. Diamonds, because 
of their high refractive index, have the greatest reflective luster of any gem. 


71 


Ketu Astral Talisman. 
Flawless precious 
chrysoberyl cat’s eye 
hand-crafted in 21k gold 
herbal tube pendant 
Piece no. 219 


Cats Eye 


Vedic Text 


Being arrested and bound by the demigods, Vala emitted a thunderous war cry. This war 
cry transformed into the seed of the gem cat’s eye. 
Falling into the sea, these seeds agitated the ocean and produced huge waves which washed 
them upon the shore of nearby lands. Wherever they settled they formed mines of shimmering 
cat’s-eye. Many of these mines are near Sri Lanka’s famous Vaidurya Hill and so the gems 
came to be known as Vaidurya stones. 

That terrible war cry of Vala also carried heavenward and impregnated the clouds and the 
sky. Later, carried to earth by rain and comets, these sees formed smaller mines of cat’s-eyes in 
scattered areas. 

The most precious cat’s-eye are golden green like the breast feathers of the peacock or light 
honey-green like a bamboo leaf: When these primary colors are mixed with shades of brown or 
burgundy, the gem is less valuable. 

Gems such as apatite, tourmaline, and enstatite are sometimes mistaken for true chrysoberyl 
cat’s-eyes, but can be differentiated by their lesser hardness. Other imitations, such as glass or 
quartz, are easily detected by their relative lightness or low specific gravity. 

The value of a true cat’s-eye varies according to tts color, clarity, and shape, A cat’s-eye of 
excellent quality mined near the sea in Sri Lanka should be considered more valuable than an 
ordinary cat’s-eye. The value of cat’s-eye is approximately one third the value of similar 

quality blue sapphire. 


72 


Blue Sapplure 


Vedic Text 


The eyes of the great demon Vala were colored and shaped like the blossom petals of the blue lily 
flower. His eyes transformed into the seeds of blue sapphire gems and fell down on the sacred land of 
Sinhala (Sri Lanka) and the surrounding tropical areas of Southeast Asia. These sapphire seeds fell in 
such abundance that these lush and beautiful lands glowed with dazzling splendor. 

The finest color of blue sapphire is compared to the blue mountain flowers which grow wild in Sri 
Lanka. These flowers are so sweet that they attract hoards of bumblebees and parrots eager to drink 
their nectar. Blue sapphires of fine, evenly distributed color, free from flaws and cut to proper 
proportions for brilliancy are the most valuable. 

When blue sapphires have a green or violet tint, are slightly grayish or darkish-blue, or are colored 
light-blue like the sky, they are of medium value. 

Blue sapphires that are excessively dark, light, or uneven in color, possessing a pronounced grayish 
tone, internal inclusions, external blemishes, visible black spots or internal feathers, are of low quality. 
Sapphires lacking brilliance due to poor proportions are also less valuable. 

Both ruby and blue sapphire are of the same mineral species, corundum, with only the coloring agent 
differing. Therefore the same methods of identification established for ruby also apply to blue sapphire. 
Blue sapphires and other gems should never be subjected to burning for improving their color and 
clarity, as misfortune will certainly befall anyone doing so. 
Blue glass, lapis lazuli, blue spinel and other gems occasionally look like blue sapphires, but are easily 
detected by testing for hardness, specific gravity, and brightness. 
The most rare and valuable of all blue sapphires 1s the maha-nila, which, when immersed in 100 
times its own weight of milk, can tinge the milk blue. 
Astrologically, fine blue sapphires are as powerful as excellent rubies, but monetarily they are valued 
at one-quarter the price of a ruby of equal quality. 


Saturn Astral Talisman. 
Flawless, unburned 
blue sapphire, hand- 
crafted in 18k gold 
Piece no. 181 


fa 


Red Coral 


Vedic Text 


The intestines of Vala were taken by the celestial serpent Vasuki, who deposited them in oceans 
around the globe. They transformed into the original seed of coral which grow within the seas. 
The best coral is colored either blood-red or pink-red. Other colors are dull-red, orange, pink, 
pink-orange, white, black and chocolate brown. 
A well polished, bright coral with rich, soothing dark-red colors and without flaws is considered 
most auspicious. It possesses power to increase the riches and wheat supplies of its wearer and also 
removes obstacles and dangers. 


Mars Astral Talisman 
Clean precious red coral 
jewel hand-crafted in 18k 
gold “herb ring.” 

Piece no 10880 


74 


Red Garnet 


Vedic Text 


The toenatls of Vala were transformed into red garnet seeds. These gem seeds were worshiped by 
the snake-god who carried them in their mouths and dropped them in the lands surrounding 
the Himalayas, where garnet mines then originated. 

Although found in a variety of colors, shades of red are the most common with blackish-red, 
reddish-brown, and orange-brown being the most prominent. As with rubies, garnets colored 
like the petals of the red lotus are considered the rarest and most beautiful and possess the 
mystic virtue of increasing both the wealth and progeny of their owners. 


Very rare and flawless 
ruby-red garnet hand- 
carved into a cameo of 
Thailand’s great King 
Rama V. The garnet graces 
the center of this Royal 
Navaratna pendant crafted 
in 21k gold. 


Jo 


Green jadeite, 
such as this, 

is a recognized 
emerald substitute 
for use in Mercury 
Astral Ttalismans. 


Piece no. 8430 Ja a e 


Vedic Text 


Lord Balarama scattered the fat of Vala’s body over the areas of China, Nepal, and the lands of the 
Yavanas and Mongols. Everywhere they fell, these transformed particles of fat 
originated deposits of jade. 
These gems are primarily conch shell white or lotus stem green, but also are found in pink, 
lavender, and black colors. 
Jade 1s extremely hard and resists scratching. It is difficult to cut, so a jade piece, 
beautifully cut and polished is worth far more than a similar gem in its natural rough shape. 


Among all gems, fine quality jade has the greatest ability to remove 
negative karmic reactions. 


76 


This flawless rock crystal 
is hand-carved as Sri 
Ganesha. Colorless quartz 
such as this example 

are a bona fide substitute 
for diamond in a Venus 
Astral Talisman. 


Quartz 


Vedic Text 


The potent semen of Vala transformed into the seeds of quartz (rock crystal). These seeds germi- 
nated primarily in the Himalayas and the lands to their north. 
These crystals are usually transparent and colorless, and are often so brilliant that they 
are mistaken for diamonds. 

Any one respectfully wearing a pure quartz crystal set in gold will attain good fortune in this life 
and be protected from dangerous animals such as tigers, leopards, wolves, elephants, and lions. Pure 
quartz 1s also an amulet giving the wearer extraordinary sexual prowess. 

Wearing quartz while offering libations to departed ancestors insures them lasting happiness. It is 
also a talisman against drowning, burning and theft. 

These attributes pertain to pure flawless quartz, and knowledgeable gemologists advise that 
flawed varieties that are included, fractured, or discolored 
should be completely avoided. 


ae 


Natural “jyotish” quality 
bloodstone, suitable for use in 
a Mars talisman, must exhibit a high 

percentage of red coloring, no lower than this sample. 
Carnelian ispreferable to greenish bloodstone for attracting 
the piezoelectric and astrological energy and good-will of 


Sri Mangaladeva. 


Bloodstone 


Vedic Text 


The complexion of Vala was taken by the demigod of fire, Agnideva. It transformed into the 

seed-origin of bloodstone and dropped primarily into India’s Narmada River. Some of these 

seeds washed upon the lands occupied by the lower caste populace while the rest spread around 
India and other parts of the world. Wherever they settled, deposits of bloodstone originated. 


Bloodstones of good quality are colored green with reddish spots, and can be highly polished 
because of their density. Exceptionally fine bloodstones are occasionally found with colors which 
radiate as brightly as lightning. Bloodstones of fine quality increase the wealth and 
followers of one who wears them. 


5 


Throughout these ancient texts. The importance of both purity & color as the root source 
of cosmic power in gems is always emphasized. Gems free of defects are regarded as pure 
transmitters of astral energy and are therefore auspicious. Flawed gems, on the other hand, 
had just the opposite affect - they were seen to attract ill-fortune. Nowadays clarity and 
quality are simply factors which affect the price of gems. 


5 


In the following chapter we list the gemological data currently used by modern-day 
gemologists to identify unknown gemstones and to separate natural gems from their 
synthetic counterparts. 


78 


Sri Nava Ratna, 

the beautiful 9 Gems 
talisman, while empowered 
by the Sri Nava-graha, 

is ultimately enlivined by 
the Supreme Being, Who is 
“sarva-karana-karanam” 


Zo 


—— PEPLreL Lene 


nt 


Antique gemological instruments, such as 
this old microscope, developed into modern 
day gemology with equipment designed 

to measure optic character, refractive index, 
and other unique physical properties. 


80 


VIII 
Modern Gemological Data 


“Ruby, emerald, blue sapphire, cat’s eye, yellow sapphire, diamond, 
pearl, hessonite, coral, bloodstone, quartz, jade, and red garnet 
ave the foremost species of gems, and they should be selected only 
under the expert guidance of a learned gemologist.” 
Sri Garuda-puranam (Circa 2,000 BC) 


‘[- basic gemological characteristics of the principal gemstones used in astral gem therapy are 

Ifsted below. These factors are used by gemologists throughout the world today to scientifically 

identify and grade the quality of precious gems. Combined with the astrological attributes of 

gems discussed in the foregoing chapters, this gemological information gives a complete picture 
of the nature of each gemstone. 


Gems are listed according to the planet with which each type of stone is astrologically 
associated, beginning with the Sun. Present sources and other information will be limited to 
those sources and characteristics which pertain to “gem” (auspicious) quality only. 


Gemstones of the Sun 


I. Ruby 


Burma, Thailand, Sri Lanka, Cambodia, Laos & Vietnam 


Gemological Characteristics 


SPECIES: corundum 
TRANSPARENCY: transparent 
COLOR: red, orangish-red, violetish-red, 


purplish-red, pinkish-red & 
blackish-red. 


REFRACTIVE INDEX: 1.763-1.770 
BIREFRINGENCE: 0.008 

PLEOCHROISM: strong dichroism 

CRYSTAL SYSTEM: hexagonal 

OPTIC CHARACTER: doubly refractive 

SPECIFIC GRAVITY: 4.00 

MOHS HARDNESS: 9 

DISPERSION: 0.018 

FLUORESCENCE: long wave-weak to strong red 
IDENTIFYING VISUAL 

CHARACTERISTICS: fingerprint inclusions, hexagonal 


growth lines, silk (rutile), and 
straight color banding. 


8&1 


2. Red Spinel 


Present Sources 
Sri Lanka, Burma and Thailand 


Gemological Characteristics 
SPECIES: 
TRANSPARENCY: 

COLOR: 


REFRACTIVE INDEX: 
CRYSTAL SYSTEM: 
OPTIC CHARACTER: 
SPECIFIC GRAVITY: 
MOHS HARDNESS: 
DISPERSION: 
FLUORESCENCE: 


IDENTIFYING VISUAL 
CHARACTERISTICS: 


Flawless garnet 
in rare ruby color 


spinel 
transparent 
red, pink-red, pink, purple 
red, violet-red, orange- 
brownish red 

1.718 

cubic 

singly refractive 

3.60 

8 

.020 

long wave-weak to strong 
red-orange, short wave- 
inert to weak red. 


natural inclusions, e.g., needles, fingerprint 


inclusions of spinel octahedra, etc. 


3. Red Garnet 


Almandite: Burma, India, Sri Lank, Brazil, Western U.S.A. and other areas around the world. 


Present Sources 


Rhodolite: Sri Lanka, U.S.A., and E. Africa. 


Pyrope: U.S.A., Czechoslovakia, Australia, South Africa, Brazil, Sri Lanka and Madagascar. 


Gemological Characteristics 
SPECIES 1: 
TRANSPARENCY: 
COLOR: 

REFRACTIVE INDEX: 
CRYSTAL SYSTEM: 
OPTIC CHARACTER: 
SPECIFIC GRAVITY: 
MOHS HARDNESS: 
DISPERSION: 
IDENTIFYING VISUAL 
CHARACTERISTICS: 


SPECIES 2: 
TRANSPARENCY: 
COLOR: 


8&2 


almandite 

transparent 

violetish-red to brownigh-red 
1.790 

cubic 

singly refractive 

4.05 

71f2 

024 


needlelike inclusions frequently 
intersecting at 700 and 1100 in same 
plane, coarse stubby silk, and doubly 
refractive colorless grain-like inclusions. 


rhodolite 
transparent 
red to violet 


REFRACTIVE INDEX: 
CRYSTAL SYSTEM: 
OPTIC CHARACTER: 
SPECIFIC GRAVITY: 
MOHS HARDNESS: 
DISPERSION: 
INDENTIFYING VISUAL 
CHARACTERISTICS: 


SPECIES 3: 
TRANSPARENCY: 
COLOR: 
REFRACTIVE INDEX: 
CRYSTAL SYSTEM: 
OPTIC CHARACTER: 
SPECIFIC GRAVITY: 
MOHS HARDNESS: 
DISPERSION: 
IDENTIFYING VISUAL 
CHARACTERISTICS: 


Present Sources 


1.76 

cubic 

singly refractive 
3.84 

7-7 1/2 

.026 


same as almandite (typical garnet inclusions); 
purplish-red color and variable refractive index 


of 1.75 - 1.77 possible. 


pyrope 
transparent 
brownish red 
1.746 

cubic 

singly refractive 
3.78 

7-7 1/2 

027 


typical garnet inclusions, same as almandite. 


4. Rubellite 


Sri, Lanka, Burma, South West Africa, Russia, Brazil, Madagascar, Maine and California (USA). 


Gemological Characteristics 


SPECIES: 
TRANSPARENCY: 
COLOR: 
REFRACTIVE INDEX: 
BIREFRINGENCE: 
PLEOCHROISM: 
CRYSTAL SYSTEM: 
OPTIC CHARACTER: 
SPECIFIC GRAVITY: 
MOHS HARDNESS: 
DISPERSION: 
FLUORESCENCE: 
IDENTIFYING VISUAL 
CHARACTERISTICS: 


8&3 


tourmaline 
transparent 

pink to red 
1.62-1.64 

.020 

strong dichroism 
hexagonal 
doubly refractive 
3.06 

7-7 1/2 

017 

not significant 


color zoning, natural inclusions, e.g., 
threadlike gas inclusions, liquid and and 
moderate doubling of back facets. 


~_ 


OO 


»_f 


Gemstones of the Moon 


Present Sources 


1. Natural Pearl 


Natural Oyster Pearl — Persian Gulf (Bahrain), Sri Lanka, Venezuela, Bengal, Bombay, Australia 


and the South Seas. 


Gemological Characteristics 
SPECIES: 
TRANSPARENCY: 

COLOR: 


REFRACTIVE INDEX: 
CRYSTAL SYSTEM: 
SPECIFIC GRAVITY: 
MOHS HARDNESS: 
FLUORESCENCE: 


IDENTIFYING VISUAL 
CHARACTERISTICS: 


2. Moonstone 


Present Sources 
Sri Lanka, Burma, Central and Southern India. 


Gemological Characteristics 
SPECIES: 
TRANSPARENCY: 

COLOR: 


REFRACTIVE INDEX: 
BIREFRINGENCE: 
PLEOCHROISM: 
CRYSTAL SYSTEM: 
OPTIC CHARACTER: 
SPECIFIC GRAVITY: 
MOHS HARDNESS: 
DISPERSION: 
FLUORESCENCE: 
IDENTIFYING VISUAL 
CHARACTERISTICS: 


8&4 


natural pearl 

translucent to opaque 

white, pink rose, cream, yellowish, 
greenish, blue, gray and black. 
1.530-1.686 

aggregate 

2.70 

21/2-41/2 

long wave-inert to strong, 

short wave-inert to moderate. 


The best test to separate natural from 
cultured is X-radiograph. 


orthoclase feldspar 

transparent to translucent 

colorless and white with white/bluish 
adularescence (also orangish and greenish) 
1.518-1.526 

.008 

weak dichorism 

monoclinic 

doubly refractive 

2.56 

6-61/2 

.O12 

not significant 


adularescence (floating white /bluish 
light), near perfect cleavage, splintery/ 
uneven fracture, centipede inclusions. 


Gemstones of Jupiter 


1. Yellow Sapplure 


Present Sources 


Sri Lanka, Thailand, Burma and Cambodia. 


Gemological Characteristics 


SPECIES: 
TRANSPARENCY: 
COLOR: 


REFRACTIVE INDEX: 
BIREFRINGENCE: 
PLEOCHROISM: 
CRYSTAL SYSTEM: 
OPTIC CHARACTER: 
SPECIFIC GRAVITY: 
MOHS HARDNESS: 
DISPERSION: 
PLUORESCENCE: 


IDENTIFYING VISUAL 
CHARACTERISTICS: 


85 


corundum 

transparent 
light-yellow,yellow,golden-yellow, brownish 
yellow, golden,orangishyellow, golden orange, 
and pinkish orange (padparadscha ) 
1.762-1.770 

0.008 

strong dichroism 

hexagonal 

doubly refractive 

4.00 

9 

0.018 

colorless sapphire—inert to strong 

reddish (long- wave), inert to moderate 
orange (short wave). 


fingerprint inclusions, hexagonal growth 
lines, silk (rutile), and straight color banding 


Jupiter Astral Talisman. 
Flawless yellow Jupiter gem 
hand-crafted in 18k white 
ec yellow gold herb ring in 
the “Kaa Zaam” design. 
Piece no. 10105 


2. Yellow Topaz 


Present Sources 


Brazil, Sri Lanka, Africa, Mexico and U.S.A. 


Gemological Characteristics 


SPECIES : 
TRANSPARENCY : 
COLOR: 


REFRACTIVE INDEX : 
BIREFRINGENCE : 
PLEOCHROISM : 


CRYSTAL SYSTEM : 
OPTIC CHARACTER : 
SPECIFIC GRAVITY : 
MOHS HARDNESS : 
FLUORESCENCE : 
IDENTIFYING VISUAL 
CHARACTERISTICS : 


Present Sources 


topaz 

transparent 

yellow, golden, sherry, pinkish-yellow, 
yellow-brown, brownish-orange 
1.619 - 1.627 

.008 

weak to strong dichroism and 
trichroism 

orthorhombic 

doubly refractive 

3.52 

014 

long wave - inert to weak yellow 


liquid/gas and other natural 
inclusions, basel cleavage, possible 3- 
phase inclusions, and “rhombic” (four 
sided) etch markings 


35. Citrine 


Brazil, Madagascar, Uruguay, and many other minor sources 


throughout the world. 


Gemological Characteristics 


SPECIES : 
TRANSPARENCY : 
COLOR: 


REFRACTIVE INDEX : 
BIREFRINGENCE : 
PLEOCHROISM : 
CRYSTAL SYSTEM : 
OPTIC CHARACTER : 
SPECIFIC GRAVITY : 
MOHS HARDNESS : 
DISPERSION : 
FLUORESCENCE : 
IDENTIFYING VISUAL 
CHARACTERISTICS : 


86 


quartz 
transparent 


(natural) yellow, golden, orangish yellow, 


and brownish yellow 
1.544 - 1.553 

.009 

weak to strong dichroism 
hexagonal 

doubly refractive 

2.66 

7 

013 

not significant 


vitreous conchoidal fracture, liquid 
inclusions 2-phase inclusions, negative 
crystals, color zoning or banding, and 
uneven coloration 


Present Sources 


4. Heliodor 


Brazil, Russia (Sverdlovsk), Madagascar, U.S.A. (So.California), 
South Africa, and a few other areas around the world. 


Gemological Characteristics 


SPECIES : 
TRANSPARENCY : 
COLOR: 
REFRACTIVE INDEX : 
BIREFRINGENCE : 
PLEOCHROISM : 
CRYSTAL SYSTEM : 
OPTIC CHARACTER : 
SPECIFIC GRAVITY : 
MOHS HARDNESS : 
DISPERSION : 
FLUORESCENCE : 
IDENTIFYING VISUAL 
CHARACTERISTICS : 


Gemstones of Rahu 


1. Hessonite 


Present Sources 


Sri Lanka, Africa, India and Burma. 


Gemological Characteristics 


SPECIES : 
TRANSPARENCY : 
COLOR: 


REFRACTIVE INDEX : 
CRYSTAL SYSTEM : 
OPTIC CHARACTER : 
SPECIFIC GRAVITY : 
MOHS HARDNESS : 
DISPERSION : 
FLUORESCENCE : 
IDENTIFYING VISUAL 
CHARACTERISTICS : 


87 


beryl 

transparent 

light to golden yellow 
1,577 = 1.583 

.005 to .009 

weak greenish yellow and yellow 
hexagonal 

doubly refractive 

2.67 to 2.84 

7 Af2 

014 

none 


typical 3 phase and 2 phase inclusions, 
inclusions of calcite, pyrite, mica and/or 
tremolite needles, etc. 


LOO 


Rahu Astral Talisman. 
Flawless hessonite gem 
hand-crafted in 18k 
Gold herbal tube 
Piece no. 9421 
grossularite 
transparent 


golden orange, brownish 
orange and reddish orange 
1.74 - 1.75 

cubic 

singly refractive 

3.61 

7 

0.028 

inert 


roiled (heat-wave) internal appearance, 
garnet inclusions, anomalous double 
refraction and strain colors may be visible 
in polariscope. 


2. Orange Zircon 


Present Sources 
Burma, Sri Lanka, Thailand and Viet Nam 


Gemological Characteristics 
SPECIES : 
TRANSPARENCY : 
COLOR: 


REFRACTIVE INDEX : 
BIREFRINGENCE : 
PLEOCHROISM : 
CRYSTAL SYSTEM : 
OPTIC CHARACTER : 
SPECIFIC GRAVITY : 
MOHS HARDNESS : 
DISPERSION : 
PLUORESCENCE : 


IDENTIFYING VISUAL 
CHARACTERISTICS : 


zircon 

transparent 

yellow-orange, orange, orange-red, 
reddish-brown & brown 

1.875 (medium), 1.925 - 1.984 (high) 
.006 - .050 (medium), .059 (high) 

weak to strong dichroism 

tetragonal 

doubly refractive 

4.32 (medium), 4.70 (high) 

7 lz 

.038 

short wave-inert to strong orange and/or 
inert to strong yellow, long wave-inert to 
moderate yellow 


strong doubling of back facet junctions, 
abraded facet edges, sub-admantine 
luster, natural inclusions. 


3. Spessartite 


Sri Lanka, Burma, Madagascar, Brazil, Australia, and U.S.A. 


Present Sources 


Gemological Characteristics 
SPECIES: 
TRANSPARENCY: 
COLOR: 

REFRACTIVE INDEX: 
CRYSTALL SYSTEM: 
OPTIC CHARACTER: 
SPECIFIC GRAVITY: 
MOHS HARDNESS: 
DISPERSION: 
IDENTIFYING VISUAL 
CHARACTERISTICS: 


8&8 


spessartite 

transparent 

golden orange to orangish-red 
1.810 

cubic 

singly refractive 

4.15 

7-7 1/2 

027 


needlelike inclusions frequently 
intersecting at 700 and 1100 in same 
plane, coarse stubby silk, and doubly 
refractive colorless grain-like inclusions. 


5 


Gemstones of Mercury 


8&9 


Mercury Astral Talisman. 
Clean chrome green tourmaline 
hand-crafted in an 18k gold 
‘single Mercury symbol bangle 
Piece no. 9020 


Present Sources 


1. Emerald 


South America (primarily Columbia and Brazil), Africa 
(Sandewana, Kenya, Tanzania, Zambia, Mozambique), 
India, Pakistan, Russia (Ural Mountains), and Egypt. 


Gemological Characteristics 


SPECIES : 
TRANSPARENCY : 
COLOR: 

REFRACTIVE INDEX : 
BIREFRINGENCE : 
PLEOCHROISM : 
CRYSTAL SYSTEM : 
OPTIC CHARACTER : 
SPECIFIC GRAVITY : 
MOHS HARDNESS : 
DISPERSION : 
FLUORESCENCE : 
IDENTIFYING VISUAL 
CHARACTERISTICS : 


beryl 
transparent 
green, yellowish-green and bluish green 
1.577 = 1.583 

0.005 - 0.009 

weak to strong dichroism 

hexagonal 

doubly refractive 

2.72 

7 1f/2-8 

0.014 

inert to weak green (long and shortwave) 


typical 3 phase and 2 phase inclusions, 
inclusions of calcite, pyrite, mica and/or 
tremolite needles, etc. 


2. Green Tourmaline 


Present Sources 


Sri Lanka, Burma, South West Africa, Ural Mountains (Russia), 
Brazil, Madagascar, Maine and California (USA). 


Gemological Characteristics 


SPECIES : 
TRANSPARENCY : 
COLOR: 


REFRACTIVE INDEX : 
BIREFRINGENCE : 
PLEOCHROISM : 
CRYSTAL SYSTEM : 
OPTIC CHARACTER : 
SPECIFIC GRAVITY : 
MOHS HARDNESS : 
DISPERSION : 
FLUORESCENCE : 
IDENTIFYING VISUAL 
CHARACTERISTICS : 


90 


tourmaline 
transparent 
chrome-green, yellow-green, blue-green 
& brownish-green 
1.62 - 1.64 

.020 

strong dichroism 
hexagonal 

doubly refractive 
3.06 

7=7FA/f2 

017 

not significant 


color zoning, natural inclusions, e.g., 
threadlike liquid and gas inclusions, and 
moderate doubling of back facets. 


Present Sources 
Kenya and Tanzania in Africa 


Gemological Characteristics 
SPECIES : 
TRANSPARENCY : 
COLOR: 
REFRACTIVE INDEX : 
CRYSTAL SYSTEM : 
OPTIC CHARACTER : 
SPECIFIC GRAVITY : 
MOHS HARDNESS : 
DISPERSION : 
FLUORESCENCE : 
IDENTIFYING VISUAL 
CHARACTERISTICS : 


3. Tsavorite 


9] 


grossularite 

transparent 

chrome green 

1.73~+1.75 

cubic 

singly refractive 

3.61 (3.30 - 4.30) 

7-7 1/4 

028 

long and short wave-inert to red 


stubby, rounded included crystals of low 
relief, occasional needles, fractures, and 
bubbly-veils. 


Mercury Astral Talisman. 
Flawless tsavorite gem 
hand-crafted in 21k 

Gold herbal Mercury 
symbol tube pendant 
Piece no. 9384 


Present Sources 
Jadeite - Burma; 


Gemological Characteristics 


SPECIES 1 : 
TRANSPARENCY : 
COLOR: 

REFRACTIVE INDEX : 
CRYSTAL SYSTEM : 
SPECIFIC GRAVITY : 
MOHS HARDNESS : 
IDENTIFYING VISUAL 
CHARACTERISTICS : 


SPECIES 2 : 
TRANSPARENCY : 
COLOR: 
REFRACTIVE INDEX : 
CRYSTAL SYSTEM : 
SPECIFIC GRAVITY : 
MOHS HARDNESS : 
IDENTIFYING VISUAL 
CHARACTERISTICS : 


Present Sources 


4. Green Jade 


Nephrite - China, New Zealand and U.S.A. 


Gemological Characteristics 


SPECIES : 

COLOR: 

REFRACTIVE INDEX : 
BIREFRINGENCE : 
PLEOCHROISM : 
CRYSTAL SYSTEM : 
OPTIC CHARACTER : 
SPECIFIC GRAVITY : 
MOHS HARDNESS : 
DISPERSION : 
FLUORESCENCE : 
IDENTIFYING VISUAL 
CHARACTERISTICS : 


92 


Exceptional 
Jadeite Gem 
jadeite 
transluent 
intense green to mottled green 
1.660 - 1.668 (1.66) 
monoclinic (aggregate) 
3.34 
61/2 -7 


greasy to waxy luster, spectroscopic 
reading of 4370 at the edge of the 
violet is conclusive identity of 
translucent, light-colored jadeite. 


nephrite 

translucent 

dark green 

1.61 - 1.63 (1.61) 
monoclinic (aggregate) 
2.95 

6-61/2 


rough fracture with dull luster. Black 
inclusions may be visible. 


5. Peridot 


Burma, Zebirget Island (Red Sea), Arizona (USA). 


peridot 

green, yellow-green, brownish-green 
1.654 - 1.690 
.036 

weak dichroism 
orthorhombic 
doubly refractive 
3.34 

61/2 -7 

.020 

not significant 


vitreous conchoidal fracture, strong 
doubling of back facets, natural 
inclusions, e.g., lily pad, black 
chromite crystals and iron oxide 
inclusions. 


6. Green Diopside 


Present Sources 


Brazil, Sri Lanka, Italy and USA 


Gemological Characteristics 


SPECIES : 
TRANSPARENCY : 
COLOR: 
REFRACTIVE INDEX : 
BIREFRINGENCE : 
PLEOCHROISM : 
CRYSTAL SYSTEM : 
OPTIC CHARACTER : 
SPECIFIC GRAVITY : 
MOHS HARDNESS : 
DISPERSION : 
IDENTIFYING VISUAL 
CHARACTERISTICS : 


Mercury Astral Talisman. 
Flawless green diopside 
gem hand-crafted in 21k 
Gold herbal Tube Pendant 
Piece no. 10858 


diopside 

transparent 

chrome green (recommended color) 
1.675 - 1.701 

.026 

weak dichroism and trichroism 
monoclinic 

doubly refractive 

3.29+/- .03 

5-6 

n/a 

confused with peridot but with lower 


birefringence and higher refractive 
index. 


5 


Gemstones of Venus 


1. Diamond 


Africa (Botswana, Tanzania, Sierra Leone, Angola, Republic Liberia 
and Ivory Coast), Brazil, Venezuela, Guyana, Indonesia, India, 
Russia and Australia. 


Gemological Characteristics 


SPECIES : diamond 

TRANSPARENCY : transparent 

COLOR: colorless to tints of yellow, brown, 
blue, pink, chartreuse and black 

REFRACTIVE INDEX : 2.417 

CRYSTAL SYSTEM : cubic 

OPTIC CHARACTER : singly refractive 

SPECIFIC GRAVITY : 3.52 

MOHS HARDNESS : 10 

DISPERSION : 0.044 

PLUORESCENCE : inert to very strong bluish-white (long 
and short wave) 

IDENTIFYING VISUAL 

CHARACTERISTICS : adamantine luster, naturals, waxy to 


rough girdle surface, sharpness offacet 
edges, reflectivity meter of diamond 
probe helps separate diamonds from 
substitutes. 


2. Quartz Rock Crystal 


Present Sources 
Nepal, India, Pakistan, Brazil and practically 
every country in the world. 


Gemological Characteristics 


SPECIES : quartz 
TRANSPARENCY : transparent 
COLOR: white (colorless) 
REFRACTIVE INDEX : 1.544 - 1.553 
BIREFRINGENCE : .009 

CRYSTAL SYSTEM : hexagonal 
OPTIC CHARACTER : doubly refractive 
SPECIFIC GRAVITY : 2.66 

MOHS HARDNESS : 7 
DISPERSION : 013 
FLUORESCENCE : nil 
IDENTIFYING VISUAL 

CHARACTERISTICS : conchoidal fracture with vitreous 


luster on fracture surface, negative 
liquid and crystal inclusions. 


94 


3. Colorless Zircon 


Present Sources 


Sri Lanka, Burma, Thailand and Vietnam 


Gemological Characteristics 


SPECIES : 
TRANSPARENCY : 
COLOR: 
REFRACTIVE INDEX : 
PLEOCHROISM : 
CRYSTAL SYSTEM : 
OPTIC CHARACTER : 
SPECIFIC GRAVITY : 
MOHS HARDNESS : 
DISPERSION : 
PLUORESCENCE : 
IDENTIFYING VISUAL 
CHARACTERISTICS : 


Venus Astral Talisman. 
Clean white diamond 
hand-crafted in 18k 
Gold herbal ‘Venus 
symbol tube pendant 
Piece no. 9171 


zircon 
transparent 
colorless 
1.875 - 1.905 (medium), 1.925 - 1.984 (high) 
weak to strong dichroism 

tetragonal 

doubly refractive 

4.32 (medium), 4.70 (high) 

7 If2 

.038 

not significant 


natural angular inclusions, abraded facet 
junctions, strong doubling of back facets. 


95 


Present Sources 


4. Goshenite 


Sri Lanka, Brazil, Madagascar, Russia, California and Maine. 


Gemological Characteristics 


SPECIES : 
TRANSPARENCY : 
COLOR: 
REFRACTIVE INDEX : 
BIREFRINGENCE : 
PLEOCHROISM : 
CRYSTAL SYSTEM : 
OPTIC CHARACTER : 
SPECIFIC GRAVITY : 
MOHS HARDNESS : 
DISPERSION : 
FLUORESCENCE : 
IDENTIFYING VISUAL 
CHARACTERISTICS : 


beryl 

transparent 

white (colorless) 

1.577 - 1.583 (generally low) 
.005 - .009 (generally low) 
weak to dichroism 
hexagonal 

doubly refractive 

2/2 

71/2 

.014 

not significant 


fiberous inclusions, parallel tubes, 
fingerprint pattern (liquid filled) 
inclusions and 2-phase (liquid and gas) 
inclusions. 


5. Colorless Topaz 


Present Sources 


Brazil, Sri Lanka, Africa, Mexico and U.S.A. 


Gemological Characteristics 


SPECIES : 
TRANSPARENCY : 
COLOR: 
REFRACTIVE INDEX : 
BIREFRINGENCE : 
PLEOCHROISM : 
CRYSTAL SYSTEM : 
OPTIC CHARACTER : 
SPECIFIC GRAVITY : 
MOHS HARDNESS : 
FLUORESCENCE : 
IDENTIFYING VISUAL 
CHARACTERISTICS : 


96 


topaz 

transparent 

white (colorless) 

1.619 - 1.627 

.008 

weak to strong dichroism and trichroism 
orthorhombic 

doubly refractive 

3.52 

.014 

long wave - inert to weak yellow 


liquid/gas and other natural inclusions, 
basel cleavage, possible 3-phase 
inclusions, and “rhombic” (four sided) 
etch markings. 


5 


Gemstones of Ketu 


Ketu Astral Talisman. 
Fine precious cat’s eye 
hand-crafted in 21k 
Gold herbal pendant 
Piece no. 9418 


1. Cat’s Eye Chrysoberyl 


Present Sources 


Sri Lanka, Brazil, South India, and Burma. 


Gemological Characteristics 


SPECIES: 
TRANSPARENCY : 
COLOR: 
REFRACTIVE INDEX : 
BIREFRINGENCE : 
PLEOCHROISM : 
CRYSTAL SYSTEM : 
OPTIC CHARACTER : 
SPECIFIC GRAVITY : 
MOHS HARDNESS : 
DISPERSION : 
PLUORESCENCE : 
IDENTIFYING VISUAL 
CHARACTERISTICS : 


97 


chrysoberyl 

transparent to translucent 

yellow, greenish-yellow, brownish-yellow, 
1.746 - 1.755 

009 

weak to strong dichroism to trichroism 
orthorhombic 

doubly refractive 

3.73 

81/2 

0.015 


nil 


strong chatoyant “cat’s-eye” looking 
light band caused by light reflection on 
minute included crystal fibers or tubes, 
also natural and fingerprint inclusions. 


2. Cat’s Eye Apatite 


Sri Lanka, Burma, Bohemia, Mexico, Maine (USA), and other sources. 


Present Sources 


Gemological Characteristics 
SPECIES : 
TRANSPARENCY : 
COLOR: 


REFRACTIVE INDEX : 
BIREFRINGENCE : 
PLEOCHROISM : 
CRYSTAL SYSTEM : 
OPTIC CHARACTER : 
SPECIFIC GRAVITY : 
MOHS HARDNESS : 
DISPERSION : 
FLUORESCENCE : 


IDENTIFYING VISUAL 
CHARACTERISTICS : 


apatite 

transparent to translucent 

yellow, yellow-green, green, gray- 
green, brownish-green/yellow 


1.642 - 1.646 

.002 - .006 

weak to strong dichroism 
hexagonal 

doubly refractive 

3.18 

5 

013 


long wave—moderate yellowish/dark 
greenish, short wave—weak yellowish/ 
dark greenish; long/short wave-inert to 
moderate light pinkish 


similar to chrysoberyl and tourmaline 
cat’s-eyes except for lower properties. 


3. Cat’s Eye Tourmaline 


Present Sources 


Sri Lanka, Burma, South West Africa, Ural Mountains (Russia), 


Brazil, Madagascar, Maine and California (USA). 


Gemological Characteristics 
SPECIES : 
TRANSPARENCY : 
COLOR: 


REFRACTIVE INDEX : 
BIREFRINGENCE : 
PLEOCHROISM : 
CRYSTAL SYSTEM : 
OPTIC CHARACTER : 
SPECIFIC GRAVITY : 
MOHS HARDNESS : 
DISPERSION : 
FLUORESCENCE : 
IDENTIFYING VISUAL 
CHARACTERISTICS : 


tourmaline 

transparent to translucent 
chrome-green, yellow-green, blue-green, 
brownish-green 

1.62 - 1.64 

.020 

strong dichroism 
hexagonal 

doubly refractive 

3.06 

7=7 1/2 

017 

not significant 


color zoning, natural inclusions, e.g., 
threadlike liquid and gas inclusions, with 
chatoyant “cat’s-eye” effect. 


Author's note: Fibrolite (Sillimanite) Cat’s Eyes are also used for Ketu. 


5 


Gemstones of Saturn 


1. Blue Sapplure 


Burma, Sri Lanka, Thailand & Cambodia 


Gemological Characteristics 


SPECIES : corundum 
TRANSPARENCY : transparent to translucent 
COLOR : 


REFRACTIVE INDEX : 
BIREFRINGENCE : 
PLEOCHROISM : 
CRYSTAL SYSTEM : 
OPTIC CHARACTER : 
SPECIFIC GRAVITY : 
MOHS HARDNESS : 
DISPERSION : 
FLUORESCENCE : 


IDENTIFYING VISUAL 
CHARACTERISTICS : 


Saturn Astral Talisman. 
Fantastic natural blue 
sapphire hand-crafted in 
18k white & yellow gold 
ring with Saturn symbols 
Piece no. 114 


blue, violetish-blue, greenish-blue, blackish- 
blue, gray blue, purple and violet 


1.762 = 1.770 
.008 

strong dichroism 
hexagonal 
doubly refractive 
4 

9 

0.018 


light blue sapphire—moderate to strong 
pink (long wave), purple/violet sapphire— 
inert to strong reddish violet (long wave) 
and inert to moderate reddish (short wave) 


fingerprint inclusions, hexagonal growth 
lines, silk (rutile) and straight color banding. 


2. Blue Spinel 


Present Sources 
Burma, Thailand and Sri Lanka 


Gemological Characteristics 
SPECIES : 
TRANSPARENCY : 
COLOR: 
REFRACTIVE INDEX : 
CRYSTAL SYSTEM : 
OPTIC CHARACTER : 
SPECIFIC GRAVITY : 
MOHS HARDNESS : 
DISPERSION : 
FLUORESCENCE : 
IDENTIFYING VISUAL 
CHARACTERISTICS : 


spinel 

transparent 

blue, violet-blue and purplish-blue 
1,718 

cubic 

singly refractive 

3.60 

8 

.020 

not significant 


natural inclusions, e.g., needles, spinel 
octahedral crystals (often in fingerprint 
pattern), and iron oxide inclusions. 


3. Amethyst 


Brazil, Ural Mountains (Russia), Uruguay, Arizona (USA) 


Present Sources 


and to some extent in almost every part of the world. 


Gemological Characteristics 
SPECIES : 
TRANSPARENCY : 
COLOR: 
REFRACTIVE INDEX : 
BIREFRINGENCE : 
PLEOCHROISM : 
CRYSTAL SYSTEM : 
OPTIC CHARACTER : 
SPECIFIC GRAVITY : 
MOHS HARDNESS : 
DISPERSION : 
FLUORESCENCE : 
IDENTIFYING VISUAL 
CHARACTERISTICS : 


Author’s Note: Indicolite (blue tourmaline) 
is sometimes used as a blue sapphire substitute 


100 


quartz 
transparent 
purple 

1.544 - 1.553 
.009 

weak to strong dichroism 
hexagonal 
doubly refractive 
2.66 

7 

013 

not significant 


vitreous conchoidal fracture, liquid 
inclusions, 2-phase inclusions, negative 
crystals, color zoning or banding, and 
uneven coloration. 


5 


Gemstones of Mars 


1. Red Coral 


Present Sources 


Mediterranean Sea, Red Sea, Persian Gulf, and the coasts of 
Algeria, Tunisia, Taiwan, Spain, Italy, Japan and Australia. 


Clean red coral 
set in 18k white & yellow 
gold Mars symbol herbal 


Gemological Characteristics 


SPECIES : 
TRANSPARENCY : 
COLOR: 
REFRACTIVE INDEX: 
CRYSTAL SYSTEM : 
SPECIFIC GRAVITY : 
MOHS HARDNESS : 
DISPERSION : 
FLUORESCENCE : 
IDENTIFYING VISUAL 
CHARACTERISTICS : 


tubes ring for ladies 
Piece no. 11239 


coral 

translucent 

red, pink, reddish-orange & orange 
1.486 - 1.658 

aggregate 

2.65 

31/2-4 

.038 

n/a 


wavy parallel fibrous structure, uneven 
fracture with dull luster. 


2. Red Carnelian 


Present Sources 


Brazil, India, Uruguay and many other places. 


Gemological Characteristics 


SPECIES : 
TRANSPARENCY : 
COLOR: 


REFRACTIVE INDEX : 
CRYSTAL SYSTEM : 
OPTIC CHARACTER : 
SPECIFIC GRAVITY : 
MOHS HARDNESS : 
FLUORESCENCE : 
IDENTIFYING VISUAL 
CHARACTERISTICS : 


101 


chalcedony 

transparent - semi-translucent 
red, orange-red, brownish-red, or 
brownish-orange 

1.535 + 1.539 

hexagonal 

aggregate 

2.60 

61/2-7 

not significant 


dull to waxy conchoidal fracture. 


; 
“=e. 
, 


With all the previous information at hand, anyone can determine which sort of gems 
best suits his or her astrological requirements, then refer to the scientific gemological data for 
proper identification of the gemstone(s) of choice. When choosing gems for astro-therapy, it is 
always best to first consult a qualified sidereal astrologer in order to correctly cast one’s indi- 
vidual horoscope according to the ancient but highly accurate Vedic system of India. And when 
purchasing astrologically potent gems, one should deal exclusively with reputable suppliers and 
be prepared to pay (in some cases) fairly steep prices. Only flawless gems transmit positive 
energies from the planets to the wearer, and flawless gems are usually rare and can be expen- 
sive. It’s far better to wear no gems at all than to wear flawed, inexpensive ones, because 
inferior specimens not only fail to transmit positive energies, they actually 
attract negative influences 


In order to provide the reader with some clear cut insights regarding the practical personal 
use of astrologically potent gems, the following chapter gives concrete examples of how various 
types of stones may be employed to offset and counterbalance unfavorable astrological influ- 
ences in a person’s life. All of these anecdotes are drawn from actual cases known to the author 
or recorded in authenticated texts. 


Sd 


102 


[x 


Gemstone Narratives 


‘T.. stories recounted below are true-life examples of how the astral powers of gemstones 
may be utilized to counteract the undesirable influences of afflicted planets in individual 
horoscopes by strengthening one’s strong planets or, in some cases, one’s weak planets. If you 
suffer from chronic physical or psychic ailments which no physician or medicine has been able to 
remedy, perhaps the problem lies in a critical deficiency, excess, or imbalance of astral energies in 
your aura. Any qualified sidereal astrologer can determine what gems will best suit one’s needs. 


Sun Ring 
Flawless ruby 
set in 18k gold 
“Pagoda” ring 


RUBY: The following is another gemstone story from my own experience. The lesson I learned 
is that only “good” quality gems are “lucky.” In 1974 I was residing in the ancient Himalayan 
Village of Dhulikhel, Nepal when I received an urgent telegram from my old friend Shyam. His 
message was simple: “DISCOVERED RUBY MINE, COME IMMEDIATELY” and it ended 
with a contact in Hyderabad, South India. 


When IJ arrived, Shyam showed me “buckets” with rough and cut rubies soaking in jasmine oil. 
He also showed me an old Sanskrit text which described the mythical origins of the principal 
gemstones and certain guide lines on their use. One of the verses stated that flawless gems had 
auspicious talismanic powers, but defective stones were evil and inauspicious. As they didn’t have 
high-powered microscopes in the ancient times it stood to reason that flawless meant “eye-clean.” 
In any case, these secret, Hyderabad rubies were definitely NOT eye-clean. 


Author’s Note: On today’s market this quality of red corundum cut as cabachons would wholesale for around 
$10 per carat; with cutting costs at $1 per carat finished weight, and a kilo of rough would yeild about 2,000 
carats cut material. They were worth about $10 a carat; but a truly transparent Jyotish quality ruby would cost 
more like $1,000 per carat even up to $10,000 per carat in above three carat pieces. 


103 


The story unfolded of a “cursed” Indian family who had discovered a huge deposit of “red 
corundum” on their property. Fearing the Government, they keep their secret until they ran into 
good-old Shyam who offered to help. He promptly enlisted the financial assistance of (Ex-Beatle) 
George Harrison and actor Peter Sellers. With this money, he was setting up private cutting and 

polishing factories and he needed me to visit Bombay and check out the possibilities. So I took five 
kilos of rough rubies and was able to sell all 5 kg of rough to one buyer. In the meantime, Shyam 
had smuggled a large amount of rough and cut stones out of India and taken them to New York, 
the Mecca of Money. 


In America he joined forces with a rich grave robber and bought a pet lion. Shortly thereafter he 
returned with his new partner to “really open up the deposit” where they hoped to find some 
“clear” rubies. To make a long story short the police came, the whole thing was a fiasco, trunk 
loads of rough rubies were confiscated, and Shyam had to flee India. Oh! I forgot to mention, the 
pet lion fell from a 10th story Manhattan window and went splat, leaving 
Shyam with a broken marriage. And I almost forgot that a few trunk loads of these 
bad-luck rubies were scattered like gravel on late George Harrison’s driveway - giving rise to the 
joke that he had a “ruby driveway;” but it was very unlucky for him, as we know. 


In the meantime, I paid the Hyderabad family for their rubies and proceeded to Nepal. The 
occasion was the grand-opening of a primary school we had helped finance in Dhulikhel. At this 
point my business went sour, I was cheated by a Nepali partner (Mohan Singh), I was cheated again 
and extorted by an American partner (Ken Ballard) , and when Kali Baba’s curse descended on the 
Nepali man I knew it was time to move on. 


104 


The first thing I did was to bury every last one of those flawed rubies still in my possession. 
And that is my advice to anyone who shows me a really “flawed” gemstone: BURY IT! I 
remembered the old verse from the ancient Garuda-puranam which stated that flawed stones 
are bad luck while eye-clean gems are so auspicious that great sages and royalty of 
all ages eagerly sought them out. 


MORAL: Only “eye-clean” gems are helpful and attractive, while visibly flawed gems are 
defective and disturbing. Amen! 


The Eye of Surya, 
clear top-red 
Sun jewel 

set in 21k gold 
Piece no. 1778 


RUBY STORY 2: Some years ago, a prominent Bombay businessman suddenly contracted a 
chronic fever with dangerously high temperatures which persisted day and night. The best 
physicians in the city were summoned to his bedside to diagnose and treat his condition, but all 
to no avail. They tried modern Western and traditional Indian cures, but his condition grew 
steadily worse until he became partially paralyzed and permanently bedridden. After all medical 
options had failed, a prominent sidereal astrologer was invited to examine him. Charting the 
patient’s horoscope, the astrologer determined that man had just entered a major Sun period in 
his life, and glimmering on the man’s right hand the astrologer noticed a ,large red ruby set in a 
ring. The astrologer then informed the patient that in addition to having an exalted Sun in his 
chart, he was just entering a major Sun period and thus the ruby on his hand was attracting a 
critical surplus of Sun energy. The hot, radiant energy of the Sun, transmitted into the man’s 
system by the flawless ruby on his hand, was causing his persistent fever. The patient removed 
the ring and completely recovered his health, without resorting to any medication whatsoever. 


PEARL: In Kanpur, India, there lived a university scholar who suffered from painful blisters all 
over his face. He tried various remedies and potions, but nothing alleviated his affliction. 
Subsequently, a careful examination of his horoscope revealed that his energy system was being 
severely afflicted by the unfavorable position of Mars in his horoscope. In addition to being 
ruled by fire, Mars also governs the face and is generally associated with boils. He was advised 
to strengthen the Moon’s influence by wearing a fine pearl set in silver, and though he felt 
skeptical about such traditional astro-therapy, since all else had failed to effect a cure, he 
decided to try the gem therapy as a last resort. Within one month of wearing the pearl set in 
silver, the man’s ailment gradually subsided, the boils on his face disappeared, and he fully 
recovered his health. 


ye) 


Moon Astral Talisman 
Flawlesss ‘royal blue’ 

moonstones set in a 
21k gold necklace 
Piece no. 866 


MOONSTONE: Testimonial by Ms. Chou Tung of Taiwan: In June, 1992, when we were 
living in Thailand, my husband purchased an astral gemstone talisman for me, to protect me from 
accidents and unseen negative forces. It was a beautiful moonstone, set in a ring of white gold. 

Two months later, in August, I went back to Taiwan by myself in order to visit my family. My 
three sisters all remarked on the beauty of my new ring. Then one evening about a week later, 
one of my sisters noticed a big crack running down the middle of my moonstone and brought it 
to my attention. Sure enough there was a new crack in it, but no one could figure out why, and 
so we all went to sleep and forgot about it. 


Next morning, they wanted to look at the cracked moonstone in the sunlight, but when I 
reached to take the ring off my finger, it was gone! Somehow it had disappeared from my finger 
overnight. We searched the bed, the floor, and the entire house, but there was no sign of it. 

That same morning a friend of mine came to pick me up in his car to go shopping with a bunch 
of old friends. About 15 minutes later, I suddenly remembered that I had to stop at the airlines 
office to arrange my return flight to Thailand, so I asked my friend to drop me off there. He 
offered to wait, but I didn’t want to inconvenience him and my other friends, so I told them to 
go on without me, and that I would meet them later for lunch. So they drove off without me, 
and a few minutes later they were involved in a serious automobile accident in which everyone in 
the car was badly injured and hospitalized. My friend who was driving was still in the hospital six 
months later and almost lost his leg. 


When I heard the news about the accident later that day, I immediately thought about the 
crack in my ring and its subsequent disappearance the night before the accident, because I’d 
heard similar stories about astral talismans “deflecting” bad luck and averting unforeseen 
disasters. When I returned to Thailand a few weeks later and told my husband what had 
happened, the first thing he did was pick up the phone and order 
another astral talisman ring for me! 


106 


YELLOW SAPPHIRE: There was a married woman living in India who left her husband 
because she felt convinced that he no longer loved her. After moving back to her parents’ home, 
she contacted a well-known astrologer to discuss her matrimonial problem. After casting her 
horoscope and reviewing her chart, the astrologer informed her that the situation was due 
entirely to the auspicious but weak position of Jupiter in her horoscope. In order to strengthen 
her Jupiter and attract this jovial planet’s beneficent energy into her system, he advised her to 
obtain and wear a flawless yellow sapphire of over three carats in weight. Her parents promptly 
purchased this gem for her and had it mounted in a gold ring. Wearing this ring, she then 
returned to her husband’s home, and through the power of Jupiter’s energy attracted by her 
new ring she soon regained her husband’s love and affection and subsequently 
bore him two fine children. 


Jupiter Astral Talisman. Flawlesss 
fancy cut yellow sapphire hand-crafted 
in an 18k white &% yellow gold bangle 
Piece no. 10628 


107 


Rahu Astral Talisman 
Clear Talitian orange 
hessonite (Gomeda) 

set in 18k gold 

herbal ring 

Piece no. 10878 


HESSONITE: The following story is also drawn from my own personal experience. In 
1976, while staying on the Indonesia island of Bali, where I was having an extensive 
collection of unique astral jewelry crafted by goldsmiths there, I was introduced to a 

young America living on this island. His nickname was “Abdul” due to his dark 
complexion, and he was known as an inveterate, chronic gambler. I informed Abdul that 
the gem hessonite, when flawless, was renowned in traditional Hindu lore as a lucky 
charm for gamblers, owing to its relationship with the fickle planet Rahu. I happened to 
have an exceptionally fine specimen of hessonite with me, which I’d recently obtained in 

Sri Lanka. Intrigued with the idea of owning a bought the stone and asked me to have it 

properly set in a ring for him. So I designed a special astral ring in pure silver, complete 

with the appropriate herbal ashes sealed into tiny tubes next to the stone, and sold this 
talisman to him for $400. When I went to deliver the ring, Abdul was deeply engaged in 

a serious, high-stakes game of backgammon with several other people. He told his fellow 

gamblers about the lucky ring, and they all scoffed at the idea of such a powerful 
talisman. So right then and there he slipped the ring onto his finger and decided to test 
its purported power. To everyone’s incredulous amazement (and to my own great 
relief), Abdul won the price of the ring in the very first game, and immediately I received 
three new orders from the other players! 


108 


Mercury Astral Talisman. 
Perfect emerald-green 
tourmaline, such as this 
example set in a 21k gold 
Infinity pendant, are a 
powerful “uparatna” 
(substitute gem) for Mercury 
Piece no. 3649 


EMERALD: Another example from India, where the astral powers of gemstones are taken for 
granted, recounts how faith in astral gemology can save a person from premature death. In Uttar 
Pradesh, India, there lived a gentlemen who habitually wore an emerald of good quality, based on 

the advice of his personal astrologer. One day, while purchasing an airline ticket to Bombay, he 
happened to notice that the emerald in his ring had developed a small crack. Taking this sign as a 
bad omen, he immediately canceled his flight reservation, and the airplane took off without him. 

The plane crashed, and everyone on board perished! 


Fine heart cut diamond set in 
18k gold herb-tube “pyramid” 
Venus Astral Talisman. 

Piece no. 1132 


DIAMOND: Another incident from the authors own personal experience took place in 1975, in 
Kathmandu, Nepal. I was visiting the jewelry shop of a Nepali friend on New Road, when an 
Indian diamond smuggler came into the shop to sell some of his gems to my friend. On the man’s 
finger I noticed a ring set with an unusually large diamond. I asked to see the ring, and examining 
the diamond in magnification through a jewelers loop, I noticed that it was tainted with a red spot. 
I mentioned this to the man, and told him and my friend what I had heard about such stones 
while previously traveling in Jaipur. According to ancient Hindu gem lore, wearing a diamond with 
a red spot inside it would bring premature death to whoever wore it, even to a highly 
accomplished yogi who had already “conquered death.” My Nepali friend nodded gravely and said 
that he too had heard this tale, but the Indian smuggler, who should have known better, simply 
laughed and dismissed it all as mere myth. Later on that day I returned to my friend’s jewelry shop 
to pick up a piece of jewelry I'd ordered, but to my surprise the shop was closed, and it remained, 
closed for two more days. When it finally reopened, my friend informed me that the Indian fellow 
with the flawed diamond ring had been killed in an accident right in front of the shop shortly after 
our conversation there! 


109 


CAT’S EYE: There was an American who, due to his black-market dealings, had reason 
to fear the government. To off-set this danger he purchased a flawless precious cat’s eye 
gem of over 3 carats in weight. About six months later this person was caught red- 
handed by the authorities. Inspite of this he was able to cooperate with the government 
and eventually ended up with nothing more than probation. Thereafter he was allowed 
to move far away from his home where he remains free from reprisals. The cat’s eye 
energy of the Planet Ketu had helped him overcome his negative karma of government 
punishment as well as any danger from hidden enemies he had to fear as a result of his 
cooperation. A subsequent study of his sidereal horoscope revealed the position of Ketu 
(the diety ruling cat’s eye gems) to be very negative. The boost in his Ketu energy 
almost immediately proved harmful. It was the superb quality of the gem 
which may have saved the day. 


Two matching precious cat’s 
eyes are set along with a fine 
yellow sapphire in this 18k 
Gold Jupiter & Ketu bangle 
Piece no. 260 


CATS’EYE STORY 2: An old Romanian tale relates the story of a princess named 
Vrina who fell into abject poverty due to a severe famine in her land. The only posses- 
sion which she managed to retain was a golden lizard pendant set with eyes of cat’s eye 
chrysoberyl. This pendent had always been her lucky charm, and a famous mystic had 
told her never under any circumstances to sell it, for it possessed a special power which 
would enable her to communicate with animals in times of crisis, and thereby save her 
from ruin. When all of her possessions save for the lizard pendant were gone, she broke 
down and wept in despair. At that very moment, a lizard with green eyes similar to the 
color of cat’s eye approached and “spoke” to her. The lizard communicated the infor- 
mation that she would find her salvation in the dry bed of the river. So she went to the 

river with her subjects and upon excavating the dry bed they discovered a rich deposit of 
fine cat’s eye gems, which quickly restored the prosperity of her kingdom. 


110 


BLUE SAPPHIRE: The ancient Sanskrit scriptures known as the Puranas contain a well-known 
story regarding the astral powers of blue sapphires. One day, the great King Dushyanta was hunting 
in the forest when he met and instantly fell in love with a young girl named Shakuntala, who was the 

daughter of a powerful sage living as an ascetic yogi in the wilderness. Wishing to marry her, the 

King gave her a beautiful blue sapphire ring to mark their engagement, and he told her to come to 
his palace whenever she felt ready to marry. One morning a few month later, as she stood by the 
river bank drawing water for her father, the sapphire ring slipped off her finger, fell into the river, 
and was promptly swallowed by a fish. When later she went to visit the King at his palace to consent 
to his proposal, the King did not recognize her, nor could he recall his promise of marriage. Deeply 
distressed, she returned sadly to her father’s hut in the forest. 
A few months later, the fish which swallowed the 
ring was caught by a local fisherman, who found the 
precious sapphire inside its stomach. Seeing the Royal 
Symbol and thinking that this might be important, 
the fisherman took the ring to the King. The moment 
the King set eyes on the stone he immediately 
remembered Shakuntala and his proposal of marriage 
to her. He sent for her, and soon they were married 
and lived a long happy life together, thanks to the 
precious gem which consummated their destiny. Shakuntala 


RED CORAL: Not long ago a Thai lady night-club 
owner came to visit our Astral Gemstone Talismans 
Showroom in Bangkok. While waiting for her horo- 

scope to be cast she saw a Mars bangle set with a large 

red coral. She immediately put on the bangle and left 
the shop saying she would return to pay for the piece. 
Not more than 10 minutes later she returned the bangle 
explaining that she just had a heated argument with her 
boy-friend who strongly objected to her wearing the red 
coral. Upon checking her horoscope we found that 
Mars was posited in the sign of Leo, a very strong, fiery 
position, signifying (among other things) romantic 
conflicts. Increasing her Mars energy by wearing the 
large red coral had an immediately violent effect on her 
relationship, which was painfully apparent. 


pe 


Note: Some Indologists 
believe the Timur Ruby 
(pictured as part of the 
British Crown Jewels and 
which is a red spinel) to be 
the Syamantaka gem; 
others say the gem went 
“down” when Dwaraka 
Island sank into the ocean 
after Lord Krishna’s 
disappearance 


Syamantaka 
Gem 


The following is my all-time favorite gemstone story. This legend is derived from the 10th 
Canto of the great Bhagavata Maha-purana : Book 10, Chapter VII. Over 5,000 years ago, at the 
end of the Dvarpara-yuga or the “Copper Age,” the 8th Incarnation of Lord Vishnu appeared on 

the Earth as Lord Krishna. During the latter part of His sojourn on this planet Krishna was 
involved in a misunderstanding over a wonderful ruby known as the Syamantaka gem. 


There was a King named Satrajit who was a devotee of Surya, the Sun-god. After many years of 
worship King Satrajit was finally blessed by the Sun-god who gave him a fabulous ruby as a 
reward for his dedication. This ruby was named “Syamantaka” and it had the power to produce 
one hundred seventy pounds of gold daily for it’s owner. Such was the great brilliance of this gem 
that people mistook King Satrajit to be the Sun-god himself where ever he wore the jewel. One 
day Satrajit went to visit Lord Krishna on His island Kingdom of Dvaraka. Krishna, 
understanding Satrajit’s inflated ego and attachment, asked him for the gem. When Satrajit 
refused, Krishna relented and said nothing further about the matter. But the devoted denizens of 
Dvaraka were surprised and soon gossip spread throughout the Kingdom. 


Later, the brother of Satrajit, Prasena, borrowed the gem and went boldly into the forest to 
hunt. Unknown to anyone, Prasena was killed by a great lion who was in turn killed by Jambavan, 
the King of Bears, who took the Syamantaka jewel into his cave and gave it to his child to play 
with. Soon the news of the gems disappearance turned into ugly rumors that perhaps Krishna was 
responsible for the theft. Sensing the people’s doubt, Lord Krishna ventured out to search for 
the gem accompanied by a large group of followers. Later they found the dead bodies of both 
Prasena and the lion. Finally they came to the cave of Jambavan and Krishna entered the cave 
alone, leaving his associates out side. Seeing Krishna and not knowing his true greatness, 
Jambavan engaged Him in mortal combat. After the fighting had continued unabated for 
fourteen days and nights Jambavan began losing strength while Krishna was still strong and 
getting stronger. At this point Jambavan realized Krishna’s true identity and offered Krishna the 
jewel and his daughter, Jambavati, in apology. 


When Krishna returned triumphantly to Dvaraka the truth became known and the Lord 
returned the Syamantaka gem to King Satrajit. The embarrassed King Satrajit offered his beautiful 
daughter, Satyabhama, to be one of Lord Krishna’s Queens and the Lord graciously accepted her 

hand in marriage. 


A happy ending? Oh, but there is more to the legend, much more... 
The legend of the gem continues with Satrajit getting killed, Akrura running away, etc., 
but the most memorable part of the saga involves Lord Sri Krishna’s marriage 
to Jambavati & Satyabhama, two of His primary Queens. 


. 


One of the most esoteric aspects of “Planetary Gemology” deals with the Planetary Deity 
ruling each gem. These Graha-devas belong to the Cosmic Hierarchy and their influence is felt 


il2 


The legend of the 
Syamantaka ruby 
involves Lord 

Sri Krishna, 

the 8th Avatara, 
circa 3000 BC 


Original painting by Pt. Ida Bagus Rai of Bali in 1976 


according to the angle or rasi (sign) and bhava (house) they occupy in one’s horoscope as well 
as their major planetary periods (about 60% influence) and their minor planetary periods 
(about 30% influence). There are many other considerations including Sun periods (30 days), 
moon periods, aspects, lord ownership, transits, and many other more subtle points which 
involve understanding the horoscope as a whole. In the East the concept and belief in the 
devas or “cosmic hierarchy” is deeply rooted in ancient Vedic tradition. The use of gems as a 
way of invoking each stone’s ruling planetary deity is still prevalent. This consideration is the 
most esoteric aspect of “gem therapy” and is not for those who do not believe in 
karma or rebirth. 


These are only a small handful of the many amazing cases associated with the potent 
therapeutic powers of precious gemstones, which can influence a person’s health and longevity 
for better or for worse by attracting and amplifying various types of cosmic energies from the 
stars and planets. In some cases, It’s the critical deficiency of a particular type of astral energy 
which causes the problem, while in other cases it’s an overabundance and imbalance of energies 
due to the presence of inappropriate or flawed gemstones on a person’s body. 


If you’ve been suffering from chronic physical or psychic afflictions for which conventional 
medical remedies are consistently ineffective, or if you experience persistent runs of bad luck, 
you may wish to consider trying to correct the situation through astral-therapy by consulting a 
qualified sidereal astrologer, then obtaining and wearing the astrological gemstones or talismans 
which he prescribes. The answers to many of our most common problem are literally “written 
in the stars,” and astrological gemstones, which function somewhat like radio crystal receivers 
to attract, modulate, and amplify the invisible energies which rain down on us from the cosmos, 
can bring those energies and those answers down to earth. 


In conclusion I would like to point out that gemstones for planets which are harmful in one’s 
horoscope and also gemstones of planets which are cruel by nature, like Saturn, Mars, Rahu & 
Ketu, may be used to advantage by someone wishing to placate these planets through the 
recitation of mantras and performance of certain acts of sacrifice. Used as a medium for graha- 
puja or planetary solicitation these otherwise harmful gems help to magnify one’s prayer. 
Anyone who is not willing to perform the requisite sacred rites may well come to grief by using 
gems which represent a harmful planetary influence in one’s life. Therefore, the idea of 
pacifying planets thorough the use of gems, can be done, provided one obtain the necessary 
information in order to carry out the rituals correctly. Otherwise, one should normally avoid 
gems which represent a harmful influence in their life. 


113 


The Final Word 
on Crystals 


| Nn recent years, occult talismans of quartz crystal have become increasingly popular 
throughout the Western world. Believing that such crystals provide a panacea for all ills, an 
infinite source of cosmic energy, and absolute protection against evil spirits, people wear them in 
rings, necklaces, bracelets, pendants, and key-chains, without taking into consideration their 
intrinsic gemological quality or their astrological side-effects. Furthermore, they mistakenly 
believe that only quartz crystals (also known as “rock crystals”) provide the desired 
power and protection. 


The fact is clear quartz crystals are a common variety amongst different types of gem crystals. 
All precious gemstones, except for those composed of organic matter such as coral and pearl, 
belong to one of six major categories of natural crystal, and almost all gem crystals are far more 
rare than the common clear quartz variety. Many precious gems are actually natural quartz 
crystals structurally fused with various trace elements that add color to the stone. For example, 
amethyst is actually purple quartz, and citrine is 
simply yellow quartz. 


As discussed in previous chapters, all of the ancient gemological teachings of the East place 
prime importance on the color and the quality of gem crystals. The color determines which of the 
nine planets rules the gem, and the quality determines whether a gemstone transmits the positive 

or negative energies of it’s associated planet. Clear colorless gems such as diamond and quartz 
crystal, for example, transmit the energy and astral influence of the planet Venus, while red gem 
crystals such as ruby and garnet attract the energy and influence of the Sun. However, it is the 
tone of the color and the gemological quality of the crystal which determine how well a particular 
gem functions as an astral talisman. Even colorless quartz must be “crystal clear” and free of flaws 
in order to conduct the auspicious energy of Venus to the person who wears it. 


Two samples of commonly 
mis-used flawed quartz 
crystal and crystal ball. The 
Puranas warn against the 
use of such defective stones 


114 


The ancient Vedic texts of India ascribe the mythological origins of clear quartz crystals to 
the semen of Vala, and therefore this sort of colorless gemstone governs sexuality and the entire 
realm of sensual activity. It is interesting to note that the planet Venus, which is associated with 

colorless crystals, has always been regarded as the planet of love and sex in both 
Eastern and Western astrology. 


The current fad for talismans of quartz rock crystal has given rise to the popular 
misconception that only colorless quartz has the capacity to transmit auspicious cosmic energy. 
Not only is this a fallacy, it can also bring great misfortune to people by attracting the wrong 
type of energy into their systems. One should only wear gems which transmit the planetary 
energies appropriate to one’s individual horoscope. Diamonds, for example, have always been 
regarded as “a girl’s best friend” in the Western world, but according to Vedic reference, 
diamonds bring nothing but misery to most women. The Western view is based entirely on 
commercial considerations, while the Eastern view is rooted in ancient esoteric teachings that 
have withstood the test of time, as illustrated in the true stories presented 
in the previous chapter. 


After selecting the appropriate type of gem according to its color and planetary association, 
the most important factor to consider when purchasing a gem is its crystal clarity. The 
importance of flawless clarity in gems cannot be overemphasized, for only the finest quality 
crystals transmit the positive energies of their associated planets. Flawed stones work in reverse, 
i.e., they transmit flawed energy and therefore bring misfortune rather than auspicious 
influences. Note the fate of the Indian smuggler who sported the flawed diamond in flagrant 
disregard for the advice of the ancient sages. 


If you cannot afford the price of a flawless ruby or diamond, you may opt instead for a 
flawless but far less expensive garnet or quartz crystal. All of the astrological planets have several 
varieties of gemstone which transmit their cosmic energies. These are all listed in this book 
under each planet, beginning with the primary, most precious gems and followed by secondary, 
less expensive types. It’s better, for example, to wear a flawless garnet than a flawed ruby. People 
interested in enhancing their lives through the auspicious cosmic energies transmitted by 
planetary gemstones should select only flawless specimens. It is in fact better to wear no gems at 
all than to wear flawed stones. But since every planet offers a variety of gems from “first class” 
to “economy class,” one may easily pick a flawless gem which suits one’s individual budget 
as well as one’s horoscope. 


AUM TAT SAT! 


Completely flawless 
“yotish” quality 
quartz crystal hand- 
cut into a pyramid 
and mounted on 
21k gold stand 
surrounded by 
square cut 
diamonds 


115 


XI 
Ratna-Arpana 


Gem Charity, Mantras & Fasting 


Planetary gem donations (ratnarpana) and other practices for the attraction of auspicious planets and 
mitigation of harmful planetary influences. 


. 


Propitiation of the Sun 


GEM CHARITY: Donate a ruby or another fine red jewel like red spinel, gold, copper, wheat, or 
sugar candy to a middle aged male government leader at 12:00 noon on a Sunday. 


FASTING: On Sundays, especially during Sun periods. 
MANTRA: To be chanted on Sunday morning at sunrise, especially during Sun periods: 


Atha Surya-astottara-shata-nama-vali 
(The 108 names of Surya) 


Om arunaya namah 
Om sharanyaya namah 
Om karuna-rasa-sindhave namah 
Om asmanabalaya namah 
Om arta-raksa-kaya namah 
Om adityaya namah 
Om adi-bhutaya namah 
Om akhilagamavedine namah 
Om acyutaya namah 
Om akhilagnaya namah 
Om anantaya namah 
Om inaya namah 
Om visva-rupaya namah 
Om wyyaya namah 
Om indraya namah 
Om bhanave Namah 
Om indriramandiraptaya namah 
Om vandaniyaya namah 
Om ishaya namah 
Om suprasannaya namah 
Om sushilaya namah 
Om suvarcase namah 
Om vasupradaya namah 
Om vasave namah 
Om vasudevaya namah 
Om ujjvalaya namah 
Om ugra-rupaya namah 
Flawless oval ruby OM WERIVAGH) sibelal 
set in 18k gold. Om PAVANE nameals 
Diecewe 11046 Om udhatkiranajalaya namah 
Om hrishikesaya namah 
Om urjasvalaya namah 


Sun Astral Talisman. 


116 


Om viraya namah 
Om nirjaraya namah 
Om jayaya namah 
Om urudvayavirnimuktaniasarakrashivandyaya namah 
Om rugdhantre namah 
Om kraksacakracaraya namah 
Om krajusvabhavavittaya namah 
Om nityastutyaya namah 
Om krukaramatrikavarnarupaya ujjvalatejase namah 
Om kruksadhinathamitraya namah 
Om pushakaraksaya namah 
Om luptadantaya namah 
Om shantaya namah Sri Suryadev. 
Om kantidaya namah Sun in cosmic 
Om dhanaya namah hierarchy 
Om kanatkanaka sushanaya namah 
Om khalotaya namah 
Om lunit-akhila-daityaya namah 
Om satya-ananda-svarupine namah 
Om apavarga-pradaya namah 
Om arta-sh 


O ityantakarine namah 
mM gunatmane namah 
m ahrinibhrite namah 
Om brihate namah 
Om brahmane namah 
Om esvaryadaya namah 
Om sharvaya namah 
Om haridashvaya namah 
Om shauraye namah 
Om dashadiksam-prakashaya 


Om bhakta-vashyaya na 
Om ojaskaraya nam 


Om jayine namah , 
Om jagad-ananda-hetave n 


1 Om taya janma-mrtyu-jara-vyadhi-varjt 
atyapadasamcararathasthaya-asuraraye namah 
Om kamaniyakagaya namah 


Om abjaballabhaya namah 
| 


antar-balnh prakashaya namah 
Om acintyaya namah 

mM atma-rupine namah 
acyutaya namah 
areshaya namah 

1 jyotishe namah 


Om haraye nam. 

Om param-atmane namah 
Om tarunaya namah 
Om tarenyaya namah 

Om grahanam pataye namah 
Om bhaskaraya namah 
Om adimadhyantara-hitaya namah 
Om saukhyapradaya namah 


ii? 


Om sakalajagatam pataye namah 
Om suryaya namah 
Om kavaye namah 
Om narayanaya namah 
Om pareshaya namah 
Om tejorupaya namah 
Om shrim hiranyagarbhaya namah 
Om hrim sampatkaraya namah 
Om aim istarthadaya namah 
Om am suprasannaya namah 
Om shrimate namah 
Om shreyase namah 
Om saukhyadayine namah 
Om diptamurtaye namah 
Om nikhilagamavedhyaya namah 
Om nityanandaya namah 


Surya seed mantra: Om hraam hrim hrom sah suryaya namah. 


RESULT: The planetary deity Surya is propitiated increasing courage and notoriety 


. 


Propitiation of the Moon 


CHARITY: Donate a natural pearl or moonstone, conch shell, silver, water, cow’s milk or white 
rice to a female leader on Monday evening. 


FASTING: On Mondays, especially during Moon periods. 
MANTRA: To be chanted on Monday evening, especially during Moon periods: 


Atha chandra-astottara-shata-nama-vali 
(The 108 names of Chandra) 


Om srimate namah 
Om shasha-dharaya namah 
Om chandraya namah 
Om tara-adhishaya namah 
Om nisha-karaya namah 
Om sugha-nighaye namah 
Om sadaradhya namah 
Om sat-pataye namah 
Om sadhu-pujitaya namah 
Om jitendriyaya namah 
Om jayodhyogaya namah 
Om jyotish-cakra-pravartakaya namah 
Om vikartananujaya namah 
Om viraya namah 


Moon Astral Talisman. Om vishveshaya namah 
Five clean moonstones Om vidusham pataye namah 
set in 21k gold Om doshakaraya namah 


Piece no. 1785 Om dushta-duraya namah 


Om pushtimate namah 
Om shishta-palakaya namah 
Om ashta-murti-priyaya namah 
Om anantaya namah 
Om kashta-daru-kutharakaya namah 
Om sva-prakashaya namah 


118 


Om prakash-atmane namah 
Om dyu-caraya namah 
Om deva-bhojanaya namah 
Om kala-dharaya namah 
Om kala-hetave namah 
Om kama-krite namah 
Om kama-dayakaya namah 
Om mrityu-saharakaya namah 
Om amartyaya namah 
Om nityanushthana-dayakaya namah 
Om ksapa-karaya namah 
Om ksina-papaya namah 
Om ksaya-vriddii-samanvitaya namah 


Om jaivatrikaya namah Sri Chandradev. 
Om shucaye namah Moon in cosmic 
Om shubhraya namah hierarchy 


Om jayine namah 
Om jaya-phala-pradaya namah 
Om sudha-mayaya namah 


Om s tesa noma 
a Om ili -daya namah 


ff Om mukti-daya namah 
bhadraya namah 
bhanjanaya namah 


a 
™~Y 


Om bhakta 
Om sama-ga 
Om sarva-raksaka 
Om sagarodbhavaya 
Om bhayanta-hkrite nam 
Om bhakti-gamyaya namah 
Om bhava-bandha-vimocakaya nam 
Om jagat-prakasa-kiranaya namah 
Om jagad-ananda-kiranaya namah 
Om nissapatnaya namah 
Om niraharaya namah 
Om nirvikaraya namah 
Om niramayaya namah 


Om bhu-cchaya-cchaditaya nama. , 


Om bhavyaya namah j 
Om bhuvana-prati-palakaya nama. 
Om sakalarti-haraya namah 


Om sOmya-janakaya nama. 
Om sadhu-vanditaya namal 


atra-Ahvajopetaya namah 
_ Om sitangaya namah 
Om sita-bhusanaya namah 


lyambara ahaa agaalal ae 


Om dasasva-ratha-samrudhaya namah 
Om danda-pananye namah 
Om dhanur-dharaya namah 
Om kunda-pusyojvalakaraya namah 
Om nayanabja-samudbhavaya namah 
Om atreya-gotra-jaya namah 


119 


Om atyanta-vinayaya namah 
Om priya-dayakaya namah 
Om karuna-rasa-sampurnaya namah 
Om karkata-prabhave namah 
Om avyayaya namah 
Om catur-ashrasanarudhaya namah 
Om caturaya namah 
Om divya-vahanaya namah 
Om vivasvan mandalajneya-vasaya namah 
Om vasu-samrddhi-daya namah 
Om mahesvara-priyaya namah 
Om dantaya namah 
Om meru-gotra-pradaksinaya namah 
Om graha-mandala-madhyasthaya namah 
Om grasitarkaya namah 


Om grahadhipaya namah 

Om dvija-rajaya namah 
Moon Astral Talisman. Om dyuti-lakaya namah 
Natural pearl adorns Om dvibhujaya namah 


this 21k gold Pagoda 


Om dvija-pujitaya namah 
tube pendant 


Om audumbara-nagavasaya namah 
Om udaraya namah 
Om rohini-pataye namah 
Om nityodayaya namah 
Om muni-stutyaya namah 
Om nityananda-phala-pradaya namah 

Om sakalahladana-karaya namah 
Om palashedhma-priyaya namah 


Chandra seed mantra: Om sraam srim srom sah chandraya namah. 


RESULT: The planetary deity Chandra is propitiated increasing mental health and peace of mind. 


Moon Astral Talisman. 
Fine moonstone adorns 
this 21k gold “Stupa” 
pendant 


S 


120 


Propitiation of Mars 


CHARITY: Donate a red coral, wheat bread, sweets made from sugar mixed with white 
sesamum seeds, or masoor dal (red lentils) to a celibate on Tuesday at noon. 


FASTING: On Tuesdays, especially during Mars transits and major or minor Mars periods. 


MANTRA: To be chanted on Tuesday, one hour after sunrise, especially during major or 


minor Mars periods: 


Angaraka-astottara-shata-nama-vali 
(The 108 names of Mangala) 


Om malisutaya namah 
Om maha-bhagaya namah 
Om mangalaya namah 
Om mangala-pradaya namah 
Om maha-virayam namah 
Om maha-shuraya namah 
Sri Mangaladev. — Om maha-balaparakramaya namah 
Mars in the cosmic Om maharoudraya namah 
Merarchy Om mahabhadraya namah 
Om mananiyaya namah 
Om dayakaraya namah 
Om manadaya namah 
Om aparvanaya namah 
Om kruraya namah 
Om tapa-traya-vivaryitaya namah 
Om supratipaya namah 
Om sutamrakshaya namah 
Om subrahmanyaya namah 
Om sukhapradaya namah 
Om vakra-stambhadi-gamanaya namah 
Om varenyaya namah 
Om varadaya namah 
Om sukhine namah 
Om virabhadraya namah 
Om virupaksaya namah 
Om vidurasthaya namah 
Om vibhavasave namah 
Om naksatra-cakra-samcarine namah 
Om ksatrapaya namah 
Om hsatravarjitaya namah 
Om ksayavriddhivinirmuktaya namah 
Om ksama-yuktaya namah 
Om vicaksanaya namah 
Om aksinaphaladaya namah 
Om caturvarga-phala-pradaya namah 
Om vitaragaya namah 
Om vitabhayaya namah 
Om vijvaraya namah 
Om vishva-karanaya namah 
Om naksatra-rashisancaraya namah 
Om nanabhayanthkrintanaya namah 
Om vandarujanamandaraya namah 
Om vakrakuncitamurddhajaya namah 
Om kamaniyaya namah 


2] 


Mars Astral 
Talisman. Red 
carnelian set in 21k 
gold “heart pump” 
pendant 


Om dayasaraya namah 
Om kanatkanakabhusanaya namah 
Om bhayaghnaya namah 
Om bhavya-phaladaya namah 
Om bhakta-bhaya-varapradaya namah 
Om shatru-hantre’ namah 
Om shamope°taya namah 
Om sharanagataposhanaya namah 
Om sahasine’ namah 
Om sad-gunadhyaksaya namah 
Om sadhave’ namah 
Om samaradurjayaya namah 
Om dushtha-duraya namah 
Om shishtha-pujyaya namah 
Om sarva-kashtha-nivarakaya namah 
Om dushche’shtha-varakaya namah 
Om duhkha-bhanjanaya namah 
Om durdharaya namah 
Om haraye namah 
Om dhu-svapna-hamtre’ namah 
Om dur-dharshaya namah 
Om dushta-garva-vimocanaya na 


ym bhu-sutaya namah 
Meng OO Senay. nam 
T Om raktam-varaya namah 
d Om rakta-vapushe’ namah , 
Om bhakta-palana-tatparaya nam 
Om catur-bhujaya namah 
| Om gada-dharine’ namah 4 
Om mesha-vahaya namah 
Om sitashanaya namah 
Om shakti-shula-dharaya nam 
Om shaktaya namah 
™ Om shastra-vidya-visharada ah 
= _ ms 
Om t mah 
Om tamra-locanaya namah 
Om taptakancana-samkashaya namah 
Om rakta-kinjalkamannibhaya namah 
Om gotra adhi-devaya namah 
Om gomadhy-acaraya namah 
Om guna-vibhushanaya namah 
Om asryje’ namah 
Om angarakaya namah 
Om avanti-desha-adhishaya namah 
Om janardanaya namah 


Om suryayamya-pradeshasthaya namah 
Om ghune’ namah 


Om yamya-harin-mukhaya namah Mars Astral Talisman. 
Om trikona-mandala-gataya namah Three clean red coral gems 
Om tridasha-adhipasannutaya namah hand-crafted with herbal 


Om shucaye’ namah ashes sealed in the tube. 


Om shuctkaraya namah 
Om shuraya namah 


122 


Om shuci-vashyaya namah 
Om shubha-vahaya namah 
Om mesha-vriscika-rashishaya namah 
Om medhavine’ namah 
Om mita-bhashanaya namah 
Om sukha-pradaya namah 
Om surupa-aksaya namah 
Om sarva-bhishta-phala-pradaya namah 


Mangala seed mantra: Om kraam krim krom sah bhomaya namah. 


RESULT: The planetary deity Mangala is propitiated increasing determination and drive, and 
protecting one from violence. 


Mercury Astral Talisman. 
Spotless emerald-green 
Jadeite weighing 55 carats. 
Piece no. 11000 


Propitiation of Mercury 


CHARITY: Donate emerald or another fine green gem, small green lentils, a green pumpkin, a 
goat, or green clothes to a poor student on Wednesday at noon. 


FASTING: On Wednesday, especially during Mercury transits and major or minor 
Mercury periods. 


MANTRA: To be chanted on Wednesday, two hours after sunrise, especially during major or 
minor Mercury periods: 


Budha-astottara-shata-nama-vali 
(The 108 names of Budha) 


Om bhudhaya namah 
Om budharcitaya namah 
Om Omyaya namah 
Om Omyachittaya namah 
Om shubha-pradaya namah 
Om drida-brataya namah 
Om hadaphalaya namah 
Om shruti-jala-prabodhakaya namah 
Om satya ‘vasaya namah 
Om satya-vacase namah 
Om shreyasam pataye namah 
Om abyayaya namah 
Om soma-jaya namah 
Om sukhadaya namah 
Om shrimate namah 
Om soma-vamsha-pradipa-kaya namah 


i235 


Talisman. Fine 
chrome-green 
diopside set 
in 21k gold 


Om vedavide namah 
Om veda-tattvashaya namah 
Om vedanta-jnana-bhaskaraya namah 
Om vidya-vicaksanaya namah 
Om vidushe namah 
Om vidvat-pritikaraya namah 
Om krajave namah 
Om vishva-anukula-sancaraya namah 
Om vishesha-vinayanvitaya namah 
Om vividhagamasarajnaya namah 
Om viryavate namah 
Om vigatajvaraya namah 
Om trivarga-phaladaya namah 
Om anantaya namah 
Om tridasha-dinpa-pujitaya namah 
Om buddhimate namah 
Om bahu-shastra-jnaya namah 
Om baline namah 
Om bandha-vimocakaya namah 
Om vakativakagamanaya namah 
Om vasavaya namah 
Om vasudhadinpaya namah 
Om prasannavadanaya namah 
Om vandhyaya namah 
Om varenyaya namah 
Om vagvilaksa amah 
amah 
alpaya namah 
rdhave namah 


Om vatan-gaya name 
Om vata-roga-hrite’ nama 
Om sthulaya namak 


i 
~ Om prakash-atm suas 
Nita Om ghan 
Versay ona 
vidi “stutyaya namah 
Om visha-laksaya namah 
Om vidvajjana-manoharaya namah 
Om caru-shilaya namah 
Om svaprakashaya namah 
Om capalaya namah 
Om i enaria ya namah 


Om magadha-adhi pire i namah 


4 Om haraye namah 


sOmya-vatsara-samjataya namah 
Om soma-priya-karaya namah 
124 


Om mahate namah 
Om sihma-adiirudhaya namah 
Om sarva-jnaya namah 
Om shikhivarnaya namah 
Om shivam-karaya namah 
Om pitambaraya namah 
Om pitavapushe’ namah 
Om pitacchatradhvajankitaya 
Om khanga-carma-dharaya namah 
Om karya-kartre’ namah 
Om kalushaharakaya namah 
Om atreya-gotra-jaya namah 
Om atyanta-vinayaya namah 
Om vishva-pavanaya namah 
Om campeya-puspa-samkashaya namah 
Om caranaya namah 
Om caru-bhushanaya namah 
Om vita-ragaya namah 
Om vita-bhayaya namah 
Om vishuddha-kanaka-prabhaya 
Om bandhu-priyaya namah 
Om bandhu-yuktaya namah 
Om bana-mandala—samshritaya namah 
Om arkesana-nivasasthaya tarka-shastra-visharadmaya namah 
Om prashantaya namah 
Om priti-samyuktaya namah 
Om priya-krite’ namah 
Om priya-bhushanaya namah 
Om medhavine’ namah 
Om madhava-saktaya namah 
Om mithuna-adhi-pataye’ namah 
Om sudhiye namah 
Om kanya-rashi-priyaya namah 
Om kama-pradaya namah 
Om ghana-phala-ashrayaya namah 


Sri Budhadev. 
Mercury in the 
cosmic hierarchy 


Budha seed mantra: Om braam brim brom sah budhaya namah. 


RESULT: The planetary deity Budha is propitiated increasing health and intelligence. 


Mercury Astral 
Talisman. Clean 
emerald-green 
tourmaline set in 
21k gold Mercury 
symbol pendant 


125 


Propitiation of Jupiter 


CHARITY: Donate yellow sapphire or another yellow gem like yellow topaz, a peepal sapling, 
saffron, turmeric, sugar, a horse, or yellow flowers to a brahmin (priest) on Thursday morning. 


FASTING: On Thursday, especially during Jupiter transits and major or minor Jupiter periods. 


MANTRA: To be chanted on Thursday, one hour before sunset, especially during 
major or minor Jupiter periods: 


Gurva-astottara-shata-nama-vali 
(The 108 names of Guru) 


Om gurave namah 
Om gunakaraya namah 
Om goptre namah 
Om gocaraya namah 
Om gopatipriyaya namah 
Om gunive namah 
Om gunavatam shrepthaya namah 
Om gurunam gurave namah 
Om avyayaya namah 
Om jetre namah 
Om jayantaya namah 
Om jayadaya namah 
Om jivaya namah 
Om anantaya namah 
Om jayavahaya namah 
Om amgirasaya namah 
Om adhvaramaktaya namah 
Om viviktaya namah 
Om adhvarakritparaya namah 
Om vacaspataye namah 
Om vashine namah 
Om vashyaya namah 
Om varishthaya namah 
Om vagvacaksanaya namah 
Om citta-shuddhi-karaya namah 
Om shrimate namah 
Om caitraya namah 
Om citrashtkhandiyaya namah 
Om brihad-rathaya namah 
Om brihad-bhanave namah 
Om brihas-pataye namah 
Om abhishtadaya namah 
Om suracaryaya namah 
Om suraradhyaya namah 
Om surakaryakritodyamaya namah 
Om girvanaposhakaya namah 
Om dhanyaya namah 


Brihaspatideva, 
Jupiter in the 
cosmic hierarchy 


Om Sishp Mee namah Jupiter Astral Talisman. 
Om girishaya nama Faultless bright yellow 
Om anaghaya namah sapphire set in 21k yellow 
Om diiwaraya namah gold herbal tube pendant 


Om dhishanaya namah 
Om divya-bhushanaya namah 


126 


Om deva-pujitaya namah 
Om dhanurddharaya namah 
Om daitya-hantre namah 
Om dayasaraya namah 
Om dayakaraya namah 
Om dariddya-nashanaya namah 
Om dhanyaya namah 
Om daksinayanasambhavaya namah 
Om dhanurminadiipaya namah 
Om devaya namah 
Om dhanurbana-dharaya namah 
Om haraye namah 
Om angarovarshasamjataya namah 
Om angirah kulasambhavaya namah 


Jupiter Astral Talisman. 
Flawless yellow sapphire 
set in 21k yellow gold 


Om sindhu-desha-adlipaya namah & 18k white gold 
Om dlimate namah “Madonna” tube 
Om svarnakayaya namah pendant 


Om catur-bhujaya namah 
Om hemangadaya namah 
Om hemavapushe namah 
Om hemabhushanabhushitaya namah 
Om pushyanathaya namah 
Om pushyaragamanimandanamandai kasha-pushpa-samanabhaya namah 
Om indradyamarasamghapaya namah 
Om asamanabalaya namah 
Om satva-guna-sampadvibhavasave bhusurablishtadaya namah 
Om bhuriyashase namah 
Om punya-vivardhanaya namah 
Om dharma-rupaya namah 
Om dhana-adhyaksaya namah 
Om dhanadaya namah 
Om dharma-palanaya namah 
Om sarva-veda-artha-tattva-jnaya namah 
Om sarva-padvinivarakaya namah 
Om sarva-papa-prashamanaya namah 
Om svramatanugatamaraya namah 
rigveda-paragaya namah 
Om riksarashimargapracaravate sada-anandaya namah 
Om satya-samdhaya namah 
Om satya-samkalpa-manasaya namah 
Om sarva-gamajnaya namah 
Om sarva-jnaya namah 
Om sarva-vedanta-vide namah 
Om brahma-putraya namah 
Om brahmaneshaya namah 
Om brahma-vidya-avisharadaya namah 
Om samana-adln-kanirbhuktaya namah 
Om sarva-loka-vashamvadaya namah 
Om sasura-asura-gandharva-vanditaya satya-bhashanaya namah 
Om brihaspataye namah 
Om suracaryaya namah 
Om dayavate namah 
Om shubha-laksanaya namah 
Om loka-traya-gurave namah 
Om shrimate namah 
Om sarvagaya namah 


127 


Om sarvato vibhave namah 
Om sarveshaya namah 
Om sarvadatushtaya namah 
Om sarva-daya namah 
Om sarva-pujitaya namah 


Guru seed mantra: Om graam grim grom sah gurave namah. 


RESULT: The planetary deity Brihaspati is propitiated increasing satisfaction and facilitating 
marriage and childbirth. 


Jupiter Astral Talisman. 
Flawless yellow sapphire 
set in 21k yellow gold 
herbal tubes 

pendant 


Propitiation of Venus 


CHARITY: Donate a diamond or another colorless gem, silk clothes, dairy cream, yogurt, scented 
oils, sugar, cow dung, or camphor to a poor young woman on Friday evening. 


FASTING: On Friday, especially during Venus transits and major or minor Venus periods. 
MANTRA: To be chanted on Friday at sunrise, especially during major or minor Venus periods: 


Shukra-astottara-shata-nama-vali 
(The 108 names of Shukra) 


Om shukraya namah 
Om shucaye’ namah 
Om shubha-gunaya namah 
Om shubha-daya namah 
Om shubha-laksanaya namah 
Om shobhanaksaya namah 
Om shubravahaya namah 
Om shuddhasphaditkabhasvaraya namah 
Om dinartiharakaya namah 
Om dattya-gurave’ namah 
Om deva-abhivanditaya namah 
Om kavya-asaktaya namah 
Om kama-palaya namah 
Om kavaye’? namah 


Venus Astral Talisman. 


Fine white diamond hand- 
crafted in 21k gold 
herbal tube pendant 


128 


Om kalyana-dayakaya namah 
Om bhadra-murtaye’ namah 
Om bhadra-gunaya namah 
Om bhargavaya namah 
Om bhakta-palanaya namah 
Om bhoga-daya namah 
Om bhuvana-adhyaksaya namah 
Om bhukti-mukti-phala-pradaya namah 
Om caru-shilaya namah 
Om caru-rupaya namah 
Om caru-candra-nibhananaya namah 
Om nidhaye’ namah 
Om nikhila-shastra-jnaya namah 
Om niti-vidya-dhuram-dharaya namah 
Om sarva-laksana-sampannaya namah 
Om sarva-vaguna-varjitaya namah 
Om samana-adikanir-muktaya namah 
Om sakala-gamaparagaya namah 
Om bhrigave’ namah 


Om bhoga-karaya 
Om bhumi-sura-palan ] 


ali-prasannaya namah 
Im abhaya-daya namah 
Om baline namah 
atya-parakramaya namah 
bhavapasha-parityagaya namah 
yali-bandha-vimocakaya namah 
whana-shayaya namah 
na-adhyaksaya namah 
bhugrivaya nama 
0 namah 
ce namah 


Om svetavapushe’ nama 
Om catur-bhuja-samanvitaya i 
Om akshamala-dharaya na 
Om acintyaya namah 

Om akshinagunabha-asuraya | 
Om nashatra-gana-samcaraya nama 


Om barsha-pradaya na 

Om hrishtkeshaya nam 

Om klesha-nasha-karaya na 
Om kavaye namah 

Om cintitarya-pradaya na 
Om shanta-mataye? namah 

Om citta-samadhi-krite’ namah 

Om adhi-vyadhi-haraya namah 
Om bhurivikramaya namah 


129 


Shukradeva, 
Venus in the 
cosmic hierarchy 


Om punya-dayakaya namah 
Om purana-purushaya namah 
Om pujyaya namah 
Om puruhuta-adi-sannutaya namah 
Om ajeyaya namah 
Om vijitarataye’ namah 
Om vividha-bharanojjvalaya namah 
Om kunda-pushpa-pratikashaya namah 
Om mandahasaya namah 
Om maha-mataye’ namah 
Om mukta-phala-samanabhaya namah 
Om mukti-daya namah 
Om munisannutaya namah 
Om ratna-simhasana-rudaya namah 
Om rathasthaya namah 
Om rajataprabhaya namah Venus Astral Talisman. 
Om surya-pragdesha-samcaraya namah Flawless white quartz crystal 
Om sura-shatru-suhride’ namah ball facet-cut and diamond 
Om kavaye’? namah hand-crafted in 21k gold 
Om tula-avrishabharashishaya namah 
Om durddharaya namah 
Om dharma-palakaya namah 
Om bhagyadaya namah 
Om bhavya-caritraya namah 
Om bhavapasha-vimotrakaya namah 
Om gauda-desh-eshvaraya namah 
Om goptre namah 
Om gunite namah 
Om guna-vibhushanaya namah 
Om jyeshtha-nakshatra-sambhutaya namah 
Om jyeshthaya namah 
Om shreshthaya namah 
Om shuci-smitaya namah 
Om apavarga-pradaya namah 
Om anantaya namah 
Om santana-phala-dayakaya namah 
Om sarva-ishvarya-pradaya namah 
Om sarva-girvanaganasannutaya namah 


Shukra seed mantra: Om draam drim drom sah shukraya namah. 


RESULT: The planetary deity Shukra is propitiated increasing riches 
and conjugal bliss. 


Venus Astral Talisman. 

Near flawless white diamond 
hand-crafted in 21k gold 
herbal tubes ring 


. 


130 


Propitiation of Saturn 


CHARITY: Donate a blue sapphire or another blue to purple gemstone, iron steel, leather, 
farm land, a black cow, a cooking oven with cooking utensils, a buffalo, black 
mustard or black sesamum seeds, to a poor man on Saturday evening. 


FASTING: On Saturday during Saturn transits, and especially major or minor 
Saturn periods. 


MANTRA: To be chanted on Saturday, two hours and forty minutes before sunrise, 
especially during major or minor Saturn periods: 


Shanya-astottara-shata-nama-vali 
(The 108 names of Shani) 


Om shanaescaraya namah 
Om shantaya namah 
Om sarvablistapradayine namah 
Om sharanyaya namah 
Om vagenyaya namah 
Om sarveshaya namah 
Om sOmyaya namah 
Om suramvandhaya namah 


Om suralokaviharine namah een 
é aturn in the 
Om sukhasonapavishtaya namah socies 
cosmic hierarchy 


Om sundaraya namah 
Om ghanaya namah 
Om ghanarupaya namah 
Om ghanabharanadharine namah 
Om ghanasaravilepaya namah 
Om khadyotaya namah 
Om mandaya namah 
Om mandaceshtaya namah 
Om maha-niyaguna-atmane namah 
Om martyapavanapadaya namah 
Om maheshaya namah 
Om dhayaputraya namah 
Om sharvaya namah 
Om shatatuniradharine namah 
Om carasthirasvabhavaya namah 
Om acamcalaya namah 
Om nilavarnaya namah 
Om nityaya namah 
Om nilanjana-nibhaya namah 
Om nilambara-vibhushaya namah 
Om nishcalaya namah 
Om vedyaya namah 
Om vidhi-rupaya namah 
Om virodha-dhara-bhumaye namah 
woctteie Om bhedaspadasvabhavaya namah 


AG) Bi Bi bhi ba 


Sean eons 
Se Om vajradehaya namah 
Om vairagyadaya namah 
Saturn Astral Talisman. Om viraya namah 
Exceptional blue sapphire Om vitarogabhayaya namah 
Hane areca ele Om vipatparampareshaya namah 


herbal tube pendant 


isl 


Om stutyaya namah 
Om stotragamyaya namah 
Om bhakti-vashyaya namah 
Om bhanave namah 
Om bhanuputraya namah 
Om bhavyaya namah 
Om pavanaya namah 
Om dhanur-mandala-samsthaya namah 
Om dhanadaya namah 
Om dhanushmate namah 
Om tanu-prakasha-dehaya namah 
Om tamasaya namah 
Om asheshajanavandyaya namah 
Om visheshaphaladayine namah 
Om vashikritajaneshaya namah 
Om pashunam pataye namah 
Om khecaraya namah 
Om khageshaya namah 
Om ghana-nilambaraya namah 
Om kathinyamanasaya namah 
Om aryaganastutyaya namah 
Om nilacchatraya namah 
Om nityaya namah 
Om nirgunaya namah 
Om gunatmane namah 
Om niramayaya namah 
Om nandyaya namah 
Om vandaniyaya namah 
Om dhiraya namah 
Om divya-dehaya namah 
Om dinartiharanaya namah 
Om dainyanashakaraya namah 
Om aryajanaganyaya namah 
Om kruraya namah 
Om kruraceshtaya namah 
Om kama-krodha-karaya namah 
Om kalatraputrashatrutvakaranaya pariposhita-bhaktaya namah 
Om parablitiharaya namah 
Om bhakta-sangha-manoblishta-phaladaya namah 


Saturn Astral Talisman. 
Clean blue sapphire 

hand-crafted in 2k gold 
Saturn symbol pendant 


Shani seed mantra: Om praam prim prom sah shanatsharaya namah. 


Saturn Astral Talisman. 
Fine blue sapphire 
mounted in 2k gold 
herb tube pendant 


RESULT: The planetary deity Shani is propitiated insuring victory in quarrels, over 
coming chronic pain, and bringing success to those engaged in the iron or steel trade. 


¢ 


132 


Propitiation of Rahu 


CHARITY: Donate a hessonite or another fine orange gem, a coconut, old coins or coal 
to a leper on Saturday. 


FASTING: On the first Saturday of the waxing moon, especially during major 
or minor Rahu periods. 


MANTRA: To be chanted on Saturday, two hours after sunset, especially during 
major or minor Rahu periods: 


Rahva-astottara-shata-nama-vali 
(The 108 names of Rahu) 


Om rahave namah 
Om simhikeyaya namah 
Om vidhuntudaya namah 
Om surashatrave namah 
Om tamase namah 
Om phanine namah 
Om gargyaynapa namah 
Om-surapye namah 
Omm@mibajimutasamkashaya namah 


Rahudeva, 
Rahu in the 

cosmic hierarchy 
Om caturbhujava namah 


Om khangakhetaka-dharine namah 
Om varadayakahastakaya namah 
VY Om shulayudhaya namah 
Om megha-varnaya namah 
Om krishna-dhvajapatakavate namah 
Om dakshinashamukharathaya namah 
Om tikshnadamshtakarallakaya namah 
Om shupokarasansthaya namah 
Om gomedha-bharana-priyaya namah 
Om mashapriyaya namah 
Om kashyaparshinandanaya namah 
Om bhujageshvaraya namah 
Om ulkapatayitre namah 
Om shuline namah 
Om nidhipaya namah 
Om krishna-sarpa-raje namah 
{Om vishajvalavrita ‘ asyaya addhashariraya namah 
Om shatravapradaya namah 
Om ravindubhikaraya namah 
Om chaya-svarupine namah 
Om kathinangakaya namah 
Om dvishacchatracchedakaya namah 
Om karallasyaya namah 
Om bhayamkaraya namah 
Om krura-karmane namah 
Om tamo-rupaya namah 
Om shyam-atmane namah 
Om nila-lohitaya namah 
Om kiritine namah 
Om nilavasanaya namah 
Om sanisamntavartmagaya namah 
Om candala-varnaya namah 
Om ashvyriksa-bhavaya namah 


— 


Flawless “Gomeda” 


igs 


Om mesha-bhavaya namah 
Om shanivat-phaladaya namah 
Om shuraya namah 
Om apasavyagataye namah 
Om uparagakagaya namah 
Om soma-surya-cchavivimardakaya namah 
Om nila-pushpa-viharaya namah 
Om graha-shreshthaya namah 
Om ashtama-grahaya namah 
Om kabamdhamatradechaya namah 
Om yatudhanakulodbhavaya namah 
Om govinda-vara-patraya namah 
Om deva-jati-pravishtakaya namah 
Om kruraya namah 
Om gharaya namah 
Om shanir-mitraya namah 
Om shukra-mitraya namah 
Om agocaraya namah 
Om mani ganga-snanadatre’ namah Rahu Astral Talisman. 
Om svagrihe’ pravaladhyadaya namah Flawless hessonite 
Om sad-grihe-anyabaladhrite’ namah oe ire “ . ae 
Om caturthe matri-nashakaya namah se aaa Saal. 
Om candrayukte candalajati sthmajanmane rajyadatre namah 
Om mahakayaya namah 
Om janma-kartre’ namah 
Om vidhuripave’ namah 
Om madakajnanadaya namah 
Om janmakanyarajyadatre’ namah 
Om janmahanidaya namah 
Om navame pitrihantre’ namah 
Om pancame’ shokadayakaya namah 
Om dhyune kalatrahantre’ namah 
Om saptame kalahapradaya namah 
Om shashthe° vittadatre’ namah 
Om caturthe’ vairadayaka namah 
Om navame? papadatre’ namah 
Om dashame shokadayakaya namah 
Om adau yashah pradatre’ namah 
Om ante vairapradayakaya namah 
Om kalatmane’ namah 
Om gocaracaraya namah 
Om ghane’ kakutpradaya namah 
Om pancame ghishanashringadaya namah 
Om svarbhanave’ namah 
Om baline’ namah Ralws Youts 
Om maha-saukhya-pradayine’ namah 
Om chandra-vairine namah 
Om shashvataya namah 
Om surashatrave’ namah 
Om papagrahaya namah 
Om shambhavaya namah 
Om pujyakaya namah 
Om patirapuranaya namah 
Om paithinasakulodbhavaya bhakta-rakshaya namah 
Om rahu-murtaye’ namah 
Om sarva-bhishta-phala-pradaya namah 


134 


Om dirghaya namah 
Om krishnaya namah 
Om atanave’ namah 
Om vishnu-netraraye’ namah 
Om devaya namah 
Om danavaya namah. 


Rahu seed mantra: Om bhraam bhrim bhrom sah rahave namah. 


RESULT: The planetary deity Rahu is propitiated granting victory over enemies, favour from 
the King or government, and reduction in diseases caused by Rahu. 


7.6 carat Burmese 
Hessonite set in 21k 
gold with 1 carat of 
diamonds - for Rahu 
and Venus 


Propitiation of Ketu 


CHARITY: Donate a cat’s eye gem, a brown cow with white spots, colored blankets, or 
a dog to a poor young man on Thursday. 


FASTING: On the first Thursday of the waxing moon, especially during major 
or minor Ketu periods. 


MANTRA: To be chanted on Thursday at midnight, especially during 
major or minor Ketu periods: 


Ketva-astottara-shata-nama-vali 
(The 108 names of Ketu) 


Om ketave’ namah 
Om sthulashirase’ namah 
Om shiromantraya namah 
Om dhvajakrtaye’ namah 
Om nava-graha-yutaya namah 
Om simlnka-asuri-garbha-sambhavaya maha-bintikaraya namah 
Om chitravarnaya namah 9.9 carat flawless 
Om sri-pingalaksakaya namah actinolite cat’s eye 
Om phulladhumasakashaya namah set in 21k gold 
Om tishnadamshtaya namah with herbs for Ketu 
Om mahodaraya namah 
Om rakta-netraya namah 


135 


Om citra-karine namah 
Om tivrakopaya namah 
Om maha-suraya namah 
Om krura-kanthaya namah 
Om kradha-nidhaye’ namah 
Om chayagraha-vishoshakaya namah 
Om antya-grahaya namah 
Om maha-shirshaya namah 
Om surya-araye’ namah 
Om pushpavad grahine’ namah 
Om varahastaya namah 
Om gadapanaye’ namah 
Om citra-vastra-dharaya namah 
Om citra-dhvaja-patakaya namah 


Ketudeva, Om ghoraya namah 
Ketu in the 


ae Om citra-rathaya namah 
cosmic hierarchy Onestibhing nawal 
Om kullutthabhaksakaya namah 
Om vaidurya-bharanaya namah 
: Om utpatajanakaya namah 


Om shukra-mitraya namah "T 
Om mandasakhaya nama. 


—_, 


Om gada-dharaya nama. 


7k 
. . Z ; Om antar-vedishvaraya n, 


Om jaimini-gotra-jaya 


J : 
m mukunda-varapatr | a 
a-asura-kulod-bha namah 
Om ghana-varnya na 


Om lamba-devaymmaimali 
Om mrityu-putraya namah ~*~ 


Om utpata-rupa-dharine’ nama 


Om adrishyaya namah . a 


Om kala-agni-sannibhaya namah 
Om nripidaya namah 
Om griha-karine’ namah 


r 
= 
. 
Bb, 
Om sarvopadravavarakaya namah i fi 


Om citra-prasutaya namah 4 
V 


Om analaya namah 
Om sarva-vyadhi-vinashakaya namah | 
Om apasavyapracarine’ namah j 
Om navame? papadayakaya namah 
Om pancame? shokadaya namah —- 
Om uparagakhe’cagaya namah r 
Om ati-purushakarmane na 
> Om turiye sukhapradaya namith 
a Om thitiye pairadaya namah 
a Om papagrahaya namah 
Om Sphatakakarakaya namah 
Om prana-nathaya namah 
Om pancame shrimakarakaya namah 
Om dvitiye’ asphutavamdatre namah 
Om vishakulitavaktakaya namah 
Om kamarupine’ namah 


a 


136 


Om simha-dantaya namah 
Om kushedhma-priyaya namah 
Om caturthe’ matrinashaya namah 
Om navame pitrenashakaya namah 
Om antye vairapradaya namah 
Om sutanandam-nidhanakaya namah 
Om sarpakshiyataya namah 
Om anangaya namah 
Om karmarashyudbhavaya namah 
Om upante kirtidaya namah 
Om saptame*kalahapradaya namah 
Om ashtame? vyadinkartre’ namah 
Om dhane’ bahu-sukha-pradaya namah 
Om janane rogadaya namah 
Om urdhvamurdhajaya namah 
Om grahanayakaya namah 
Om papadyashtaye namah 
Om khecaraya namah 
Om shambhavaya namah 
Om asheshapujitaya namah 
Om shashvataya namah 
Om nataya namah 
Om shubhashubha-phala-pradaya namah 
Om dhumraya namah 
Om sudhapayine’ namah 
Om ajitaya namah 
Om bhakta-vatsalaya namah 
Om simha-asanaya namah 
Om ketu-murtaye’ namah 
Om ravindudyutinashakaya namah 
Om amaraya namah 
Om pidakaya namah 
Om amartya namah 
Om vishnu-drishtaya namah 
Om asureshvaraya namah 
Om bhakta-rakshaya namah 
Om vaicitryakapatasyandanaya namah 
Om vicitraphaladayine namah 
Om bhakta-bhishta-phala-pradaya namah 


Clear cat’s eye set 
in 21k gold Ketu 
symbol pendnt 


Ketu seed mantra: Om srvaam srim srom sah ketave namah. 


RESULT: The planetary deity Ketu is propitiated granting victory over enemies, favour 
from the King or government, and reduction in diseases caused by Ketu. 


L3a/ 


XL 
Gemstone Color & Clarity 


Colored: Adj. Having color [Within the nine (9) cosmic colors, viz., red, orange, yellow, green, light- 
blue, indigo, violet, and ultraviolet to infrared]. 


The color of each gem is first considered in relationship with it’s related Graha (Planet). Next, when we 
have perceived what is the visible color of each gem, then each gem color will fit into one of the four 

categories of human beings: 1) Priestly, 2) Political, 3) Mercantile, and 4) Labor. All this information is 
clearly available within my new Vedic Gemology book, “Ancient Astrological Gemstones & Talismans.” 


As with diamonds, we must consider the purity of color in every gem. So far there are several 
internationally accepted ‘systems’ of color, including the World standard by Munsell. At AGT we 
purchase only ‘clean’ gems with color in the range of 1) Priestly, 2) Political, 3) Mercantile. (‘Political’ 
being the most expensive color in all gems). 


Just as diamonds with eye-visible flaws are rejected, so should all other defective so-called gems be 
rejected as undesirable and, therefore, ‘worthless’. Gems with visible flaws should always be rejected as 
both defective and inauspicious. Flaws in color are: uneven coloration, mixed-colors, and, tones which 
are too light or too dark. The most perfect (EXPENSIVE) color for each gem is the ‘Political’ color, 
like blood-red for flawless rubies, pink for flawless (natural) pearls, royal-blue for blue sapphires, 

and so on. 


Because the ancient Sanskrit Vedas (and common sense) dictate that only ‘clean’, fine colored (or 
colorless) gems can be used as ‘auspicious’ Talismans, so that rules out as much as 95% of many natural, 
colored-gem material available. Once we have located a ‘clean’ gem then we can consider color quality. 
The truth is that flawless, natural gems are hard to find in this world (at present), at any price! Such 
“Jewels” are considered sacred and most auspicious “wonder’s of God.” Also, please recognize the fact 
that eye-clean (F-Vs2) diamonds are plentiful in comparison to all-most all other gemstones (ruby, 
natural, yellow sapphire, emerald, blue sapphire, and on down the list). 


Clarity: Noun. The condition of being clean and free from contaminants. 


In spite of some of today’s jewelry and gem dealer’s ‘glorification’ of gem inclusions (as “natural, proof 
of ID, and acceptable”), the fact of the matter remains, that a flaw is a defect, an impurity, a 
contaminant!!! Think of a gem material as a particular and perfect combination of atoms. These “like 
atoms” fit perfectly together during the formation of the Earth, to be revealed, at a later date, as jewels 
for humankind to treasure. We are speaking about “flawless” jewels. Other gems, which were not so 
lucky, formed in a “diseased” condition. Thus we have good (clean) gems and bad (flawed) gems 
(primitive grading system). 


In ancient Asia, gems were always valued according to the quality of their “Fire” and “Water,” Le., 
COLOR and CLARITY. To determine clarity, the specimen was tightly encircled by the thumb and 
forefinger, then held up to the Sun, and viewed from behind with the light passing through the 
material. If the material was opaque or semi-translucent, it was considered to be completely flawed. 
Such “bad” gems were not useful as amulets nor for medicine, and they were, in fact, considered to be 
evil and harmful. If the material was translucent to transparent, then flaws were taken into consideration 
to determine identity, quality and value. Only in very few cases (such as coral, pearl, agate, and jade, 
etc.) were translucent gems ever considered for any auspicious purpose. Transparent, “single-unit” 
gems provide us with a “look inside,” and allow us to further determine a clarity grade. The main 
consideration has always been “purity” of BOTH color (or it’s absence) and clarity. 


138 


In today’s market, diamonds with visible flaws (SI1 and down) are not even considered by 
discerning buyers. Such gems are ugly and inauspicious. Fine diamonds are free of flaws visible 
to the naked eye. Within this category of “gem quality” diamonds, modern man has found the 
need (?!?) to further subdivide the ‘clean diamonds’ clarity grade into another six (6) divisions as 
follows: VS2 (very slightly included 2), VS1 (very slightly included 1), VVS2 (very very slightly 
included 2), VVS1 (very very slightly included 1), IF (internally flawless) and F (flawless). These 
excessive gradations are based on viewing the diamond at ten to eighty (10-80) times 
magnification, while using dark field illumination (side lighting). All these grades are impossible 
for any ordinary person to discern using the naked eye in natural light, as they are all free of eye- 
visible defects. Still, through extensive advertising and promotion, even the basic diamond buyer 
knows that there is a huge price difference depending on clarity. Practically every person who 
buys a diamond today will insist that the diamond be eye-clean, at least! Who wants a visibly 
flawed diamond? Certainly not the leading ladies of cosmopolitan cities around the world! Still, 
these same “discerning” buyers think nothing about clarity when purchasing colored gems; 
and they will even purchase and wear rubies and other gems of such low quality that a clarity 
description would sound like the condition of Berlin after World War II. Completely flawed! 
Like a so-called ruby that is dense, and no better than a brick. Such a flawed quality of “red 
corundum” is never accepted as a ruby; and the Vedas speak ill of such flawed red stones. If 
flawed gems are understood to be ‘unlucky’ then what is their so-called worth? Even completely 
flawed diamonds are called “bort” and are only used for ‘industrial’ purposes. 


Now to the issue of price discrepancy between diamonds and colored gems (including red coral 
and natural pearl). According to a Rappaport Diamond Report dated July 26, 1991, the value of 
a one (1) carat, top white (D grade), and flawless (at ten power in dark field illumination) 
diamond, with good proportions, was about US$17,500 (“The approximate cash asking price 
indication”). On the Bangkok Gem Market, the price for a one (1) carat, top red colored ruby 
which is “loupe clean” under ten power magnification and well-proportioned, is also about 
US$17,500... WHEN AVAILABLE! According to the GIA text books and other gem industry 
sources, flawless ruby (of fine color) is at least f (40!) times rarer than a comparable 
diamond. Why then is the ruby not more There are two factors to consider: 


1) The ‘artificial price contr y worth that much because 


they are so common); anc 


2) The knowledg: ( n abou mond clarity (in 
contrast to the pul red gen 


The fact is th: 
increased val I C 
available, eve he u urdly ever 
available, an ‘ice, Why - 


We offer the 


1. Diamonds ac their 
accordingly. ill then un ndex in| with Mean colored gems. 


2. The public should be mai e of 1 vie in fine : colored gems just as 
with diamonds. ; 7. 


3. The public should be edu ated a I I tween flawless and defective 
colored gems just as with diamonds. e 


...But in the meantime we will make do with the current market realities and the endless scarcity 
of ‘perfect gems.’ 


5 


139 


XLT 
The Planetary Herbs 


Herb for the Sun 
Ayurvedic ashes of Milk Weed 


Herb for the Moon 
Ayurvedic ashes of Butia Frandosa 


Rahu Talisman (Palasa-bhasma) 
containing Durva 


bhasma, the herb for 
Rahu. Piece no. 5082 
= Herb for Mars 
very year AGT orders the preparation Ayurvedic ashes of Couch Plant 
of sanctified planetary herbs directly from the (Khadira-bhasma) 
Himalayan Kingdom of Nepal. 


After selection of the herbs is complete, they 
are specially prepared by Nepal’s most senior 
Ayurvedacharya (Ayurvedic teacher), who 
prepares the ashes by performing ancient 
occult ceremonies on different days for each 
of the 9 planetary herbs. 


Herb for Mercury 
Ayurvedic ashes of Achyranthes 
(Apamarga-bhasma) 


Herb for Jupiter 
Ayurvedic ashes of Ficus Religiosa 
(Pippala-bhasma) 


During each ceremony the priest chants 
specific planetary mantras while heating each 
astral-herb in a metal pot. By indirectly 
burning the herb until the smoking stops, the 
herbs turn into sacred ashes, called 


bhasma in Sanskrit. Herb for Venus 
Ayurvedic ashes of Ficus Glomerata 
The nine different planetary herbal ashes are (Audumbara-bhasma) 


delivered to AGT in Thailand where they are 
sealed into small golden tubes on all AGT 
designs (such as the classic “tube ring” design Hist for Sturn 


picniied Of the-Qppesite anc): Ayurvedic ashes of Prosopis 


This practice of using sacred ashes in jewelry Shame these) 


conforms to the belief in the 5 Astral Ele- 
ments, viz., Earth in the form of the gems, 


Water in the form of herbs, Fire in the form Herb for Rahu 
of metals, Air in the form of symbols and — Ayurvedic ashes of Cynodon Dactylon 
Ether (space) in the form of numbers. This (Durva-bhasma) 


was first described by the philosopher 
Agrippa as follows: “When any star (planet) 
ascends fortunately we must take a stone and 
herb that is under that star, and make a ring 
of the metal that is suitable to this star...” 


Herb for Ketu 
Ayurvedic ashes of Sacrificial Grass 
(Kusa-bhasma) 


140 


(Arka-bhasma) Fig 


Two bottles of planetary 
herbal “bhasma,” sanctified 
ashes of Kusa and Durva, the 
herbs for Ketu & Rahu 
respectively. 


Rahu & Venus Herbal Ring. 

Stunning 100% clean 19 carat 
Talitian-orange spessartite garnet & 
matching fine diamonds adorn this 18k 
yellow & white gold ring containing 
Rahu’s herbal ashes (Durva-bhasma) 
sealed in the twin tubes. Piece no. 6708 


14] 


ALV 


What are real 
‘Natural Pearls ¢ 


Tes 99% of the people we see using pearls are actually using CULTURED- pearls. These 
cultured-pearls are considered to have little astrological (Moon) influence, if any, because the main 
body of the so-called pearl is NOT PEARL, but some preformed shell-ball implant. That means it is 

not a natural complete unit, but just a thin covering of real pearl substance (called nacre) on the 
surface of a pre-shaped and pre-sized non-pearl bead. A cultured-pearl contains only a small 
percentage of pearl, most of the body is NOT PEARL. 


In ancient Oriental and European histories we know that the “Pearl” they referred to was 100% 
natural pearl, because cultured-pearls were not known until recently. But at the present time 
practically everyone (except a learned Gemologist) now thinks that the hollow “cultured pearl” 
pearl-imitations are the real thing. This is mass ignorance, and should be addressed by all cultured 
persons who care about the true nature of things. 


Natural pearls are 100% ‘pearl’ or nacre. It is thought that natural pearls form under a set of 
accidental conditions when a microscopic intruder or grain of sand enters an oyster (mollusk) and 
settles inside the shell. The oyster, being irritated by the intruder, secretes the pearl substance called 
nacre to cover the irritant. This process is repeated for many years, thus producing a real pearl which 
may (or may not) be found by man. For a natural pearl to form with a nice round or oval shape, and 
be free of any flaws, is actually a real-life “miracle.” The odds of a perfect natural pearl are 
one in a million. 


Think about your knowledge of pearls... Did you know that ‘cultured’ pearls (nucleated and 
nonnucleated or tissue nucleated cultured pearls) and imitation pearls can be distinguished from 
natural pearls by X-ray examination? Nucleated cultured pearls are often ‘performed’ as they tend to 
follow the shape of the implanted shell bead nucleus. Once the performed beads are inserted into 
the oyster, it secretes a few layers of nacre around the outside surface of the implant before it is 
removed after six months or more. When you X-ray a nucleated cultured ‘so-called’ pearl it will 
reveal a different structure to that of a natural pearl (solid center with no concentric growth rings, 
compared to a solid center with growth rings). Many nucleated cultured pearls used in the trade 
today are in fact mostly shell bead nuclei with very thin to thin nacreous coatings over them. A 
natural pearl however is solid nacre or 100% pearl. 


Any well equipped internationally recognized gem testing laboratory such as the GIA’s Gem Trade 

Laboratory or the new AGTA Gem Lab (under supervision of noted pearl expert, Kenneth Scarrett) 

is able to separate natural pearls from their counterparts viz., cultured pearls, nonnucleated cultured 
pearls and imitation ‘pearls’. 


One should NEVER purchase a natural pearl without a bona-fide gemological X-ray certificate. 
Some reasons being that good quality natural pearls are real, valuable precious jewels (cultured- 
pearls are not), and only NATURAL real pearls, in “single divine unit” emit auspicious Moon energy 
(cultured pearls are near-powerless). Although a real pearl is made of “nacre” still nacre in not a 
pearl. There fore a thin coating of nacre is NOT considered a real pearl. Ruby is made of red 
corundum, yet a coating of red corundum on a brick does NOT make a ruby; cultured pearl 
is the same principle. 


142 


If you were to take a department store 
mannequin and cover the doll with a thin 
layer of human skin, would that make a 
human being? A cultured pearl is the 
same process (follows a similar process), 
i.e., taking a shell bead nucleus and 
inducing an oyster to cover it with nacre 
to ‘imitate’ the formation of a natural 
pearl. But thanks to X-ray examination we 
can now separate cultured pearls, 
nonnucleated cultured pearls or imitation 
pearls from their all-natural counterpart. 


Perfect natural pearl. Round by nature, 
not by preformed implant 


Centre for Gemstone Testing 


The independent laborato: 


ANALYSIS ~~ RESEARCH - ARBITRATION . DENTIFICATION - GRADING - EDUCATION 


PEARL REPORT 


Report number: P9601004 Date: 19-Jan-98 Client number: - 


The item described below has been examined by at least two professional staff 
goammotogists of the Centre for Gematone Testing. The results of the examination aro 
presented here subject to the limitations printed on the reverse of this report 


CULTURED BODY 


tem Description: Loose pearl (see photograph) 


i 


Natural 


I hope this information has opened 
the eyes of some readers for a For and on behalf of the 
ae ya Centre for Gemstone Testing Limited 
greater appreciation of one of 


nature’s most perfectly blessed 
Retractve index] Specific gwvty] Handspec() Microscope (&) Polwincope () FTIR() EDXRF RD 


treasures, viz., REAL PEARLS, Rectogrsty Raman] UVa) image pect] xROC) 
the sacred gem for the Moon Fe eee rarer tera rare ornare _ 
(Chandra). Also known in Sanskrit TEL: 082 207 625.8 FAK: 002 267 800 E-MAIL: (MEQGOSTLAL COM WED PAGE: HTTPIMWIW.CSTLAB.COM 


as, “mukta-phala” or the fruit of 
liberation and “Shasi-ratna” or 
Gem of the Moon, fine natural 
pearls will always be treasured by 
real collectors and connoisseurs all 
over the globe. As it has 
always been. 


A bona fide “natural pearl certificate 
for the naturally round pearl pictured above 


143 


2 


VENU MANI 
Bamboo Stem 
Pearl 
GAJA MANI 
Elephant Head 
Pearl 


VARAHA MANI 
King Wild Boar 
Head Pearl 
NAGA MANI 
Snake Head 
Pearl 
Sri Ichadhari Cobra 
NAGA MANI 
| _ 9 
Sri Nava Mot z 
MATSYA MANI 
© The Nine (Primary) Pearls Fish Head Pearl 
OYSTER PEARL (Chandra Mani) 
CHANDRA MANI SNAKE HEAD PEARL (Naga Mani) 
Natural Oyster BOAR HEAD PEARL (Varaha Mani) 
Peat ELEPHANT HEAD PEARL (Gaja Mani) 
FISH HEAD PEARL (Matsya Mani) — 
BAMBOO STEM PEARL (Venu Mani) 
CLOUD PEARL (Mega Mani) SHANKA MANI 
CONCH SHELL PEARL (Shanka Mani) Conch Shell 
TREE TRUNK PEARL (Vriksha Mani) Pearl 


S 


Cobra and other natural pearls and fossils are acquired mostly in the Indonesian- Malaysian lands. They 
are uncovered in caves, jungles, sacred spots, building sites, etc., when the natives dig and find these 
fossilized remains of snakes, ancient fish, animals, plants, and sacred trees, etc., that contain these 
PEARLS. They are usually tumbled to make them more attractive. The Asians have been revering these 
OTHER PEARLS for thousands of years as we see in the ancient Sanskrit classic, Sri Garuda Puranam... 


144 


a 
bo) 
rs 
=. 


, 


: = 
mie 


"4 


ih 


St Nava Moti - 


VRIKSHA MANI 
Nagasari Tree 
Trunk Pearl 
The 9 Pearls 
Besides (natural) oyster pearls there are (at least) seven other types found in conch shells, wild boar 
heads, elephant heads, king cobra heads, bamboo stems, (tree trunks), clouds, and fish heads. 


Pearls from elephant heads, bamboo stems, boar heads, fish mouths, and conch shells are lusterless, 
even though possessed of other auspicious qualities. Pearls from conch shells are usually the size of a 
large kona (the large end of a drum stick), and they possess a color similar to their host shell. 


Fish pearls are perfectly round and symmetrical. They possess a yellowish hue like the scales of the 
pathenam fish which often inhabit the mouths of deep sea whales. 


Boar pearls are colored like a boar’s tusks and are found only in remote parts of the world. Such 
pearls are auspicious symbols of the Varaha boar incarnation of the Supreme Lord, Sri Vishnu. 


Pearls derived from bamboo appear like hailstones in various colors, and they are found only within 
bamboo that has grown in a region populated by religious people. 

Pearls from the cobra’s hood are perfectly round, like fish pearls, and they radiate a natural 
effulgence. By repeated washing, a snake pearl becomes as lustrous as a polished sword blade. Anyone 


possessing such a naga-mani attains prety, rare good fortune, and eventually becomes illustrious as a 


leader of men, complete with a great collection of all precious gems. 


Upon acquiring such a snake pearl, the owner should have the rite of installation performed by a 
priest who is learned in religious formalities. After hearing from the owner how the pearl was 
obtained and conducting the benedictory ritual, the priest should formally install the jewel inside the 
owner’s house. On such an auspicious occasion, the sky becomes filled with dark and heavy rain 


clouds, thunder, and flashing lightning, such as exhibited at the time of universal dissolution. A 
disturbances in any form. 


man in possession of such a snake pearl will never be troubled by snakes, demonic beings, diseases, or 


Cloud pearls, being naturally effulgent like the sun, illuminate the sky in all directions and dispel 
the darkness of cloudy days. Glowing brighter than the combined light of the moon, the twinkling 
stars, and fire, a cloud-born pearl dissipates even the darkest night exactly like the sunrise. A cloud 
pearl is so priceless that the entire earth, with her oceans filled with countless jewels and covered in 
layers of gold, would not be equal in value. Cloud pearls rarely reach this earthly world, because they 
are usually taken away by the demigods. 


Even a low born man would become supreme ruler of the entire world if, as result of some past pious 
actions, he were to come into possession of such a pearl. The appearance of such a man on earth who 


obtained a cloud pearl during his lifetime would bring good fortune not only to himself, but to the 
entire human race as well. No form of evil could even touch the land within an 8,000 
mile radius of his birthplace. 


Summary translation of Sanskrit texts from Sri Garuda-Puranam, 
Chapter 69 (Circa 2,000 BC) 


145 


XVI 
Sv Rudraksha Bya 


Pp Elaeocarpus Ganitrus Tree, Seed (Bija), and Fruit 
a 


dma Purana Chapter 57, Sloka 38-39: “Ifa man wears a Rudraksha seed, Siva’s auspicious power, 
such a one ts always honored and appreciated by higher beings due to their great religious merit (punya).” 


Srimad Devi Bhagavatam 11th Canto, Chap. III. Lord Vishnu said, "A man wearing fourteen mukhi 
Rudraksa becomes highly auspicious, like Lord Shiva. Anyone who wears even one Rudraksha seed is always 
admired like priests and gods and can attain liberation." 


Rudraksha seed is botanically known as Elaeocarpus Ganitrus seed. It has both medicinal and divine 
properties which have with stood the test since ancient times. It is said in the Vedic scriptures that only 
one who has the blessings of God is able to obtain and wear this divine bead. 


Rudra is a name of Shiva and Aksha means eye or “Eye of Shiva.” The seeds of this tree are naturally 
available on Earth for the well-being and blessing of mankind. Lines or natural grooves down the 
sides of Rudraksha seeds divide the “mukh” or faces and thus alter the powers... 


1. Eka-mukhi (One face-round) - SUPER RARE 

Ruling Planet: Sun 

Recommended for: Headache, and diseases of the heart & Right Eye. 
Shakti: Pleasing to Sun, increase confidence, victory, energy, fame, 
leadership, spiritual knowledge, and success in Sun related business. 
Mantra “Om Rudra Eka Vaktrasya Om Hrim Namah” 

Start day: Sunday 


2. Dvi Mukhi (Two faces) - VERY RARE 

Ruling Planet: Moon 

Recommended for: Diseases of the left Eye, heart, lungs, brain, 
kidneys, and intestines. 

Shakti: Pleasing to Moon, calm emotions, create unity, peace of mind, 
success in partnership & marriage, and success in Moon related 
business. 

Mantra “Om Kham Dvi Vaktrasya Om Namah 

Start day: Monday 


3. Tri Mukhi (Three faces) - RARE 

Ruling Planet: Mars 

Recommended for: Blood impurity, indigestion, unstable blood 
pressure, weakness, menstrual problems, miscarriage and ulcers. 
Shakti: Pleasing to Mars, increase stamina, power, energy, 
nonviolence, success in Mars related business. Antidote for inferiority 
complex, guilt and depression. 

Mantra ‘Om Tri Vaktrasya Om Klim Namah” 

Start day: Tuesday 


146 


4, Chatur Mukhi (Four faces) - RARE 

Ruling Planet: Mercury and Pra Brahma 

Recommended for: Mental disease, paralysis, jaundice, and nasal problems. 
Shakti: Pleasing to Mercury, steady nerves, comprehension, intelligence, 
foresight, communication, and success in Mercury related business. 
Mantra “Om Chatur Vaktrasya Om Hrim Namah” 

Start day: Wednesday 


5. Pancha Mukhi (Five faces) - 95% of Rudraksha are 5 faced 

Ruling Planet: Jupiter and Pra Shiva 

Recommended for: Diseases of bones, liver, kidneys, fat and blood sugar. 
Shakti: Pleasing to Jupiter, blessings of Guru & teachers, wisdom, good 
fortune, good wealth, good health, humanitarian, and success in Jupiter related 
business. 

Mantra “Om Panca Vaktrasya Om Hrim Namah” 

Start day: Thursday 


6. Shhat Mukhi (Six faces) - Semi RARE 

Ruling Planet: Venus and Pra Kartikeya (son of Shiva- Parvati) 

Recommended for: Diseases of eyesight, reproductive organs, urinary tract, 
prostate gland, the mouth and throat. 

Shakti: Pleasing to Venus, comfort, health, pleasure, art, music, entertainment, 
sex, good food, fine cloths, love, strengthens semen, and grants success in 
Venus related business. 

Mantra ‘Om Shhat Vaktrasya Om Hrim Hum Namah” 

Start day: Friday 


7. Sapta Mukhi (Seven faces) - RARE 

Ruling Planet: Saturn and Pra Lakshmi 

Recommended for: Chronic fatigue and diseases of the stomach, bones and 
muscles, also paralysis, impotency, anxiety and depression. 

Shakti: Pleasing to mighty Saturn, tolerance, humility, steadfastness, patience, 
counteracts the harmful influence of Saturn, and grants success in Saturn 
related business. 

Mantra “Om Sapta Vaktrasya Om Hum Namah 

Start day: Saturday 


8. Asta Mukhi (Eight faces) - RARE 

Ruling Planet: Rahu and Pra Ganesha 

Recommended for: Diseases of the lungs, feet, skin, eyes, and protects from 
leprosy, lightning and sudden disasters & accidents. 

Shakti: Pleasing to Rahu, luck, mysticism, deflects disaster, protects from 
underworld, safety, removes obstacles, and success in Rahu related business. 
Mantra “Om Asta Vaktrasya Om Hum Namah” 

Start day: Saturday 


9. Nava Mukhi (Nine faces) - RARE 

Ruling Planet: Ketu and Pra Durga (Wife of Shiva) 

Recommended for: diseases of breathing, high fever, eye-ache, constipation , 
skin disease, and back ache. 

Shakti: Pleasing to Ketu, remove obstacle's, safety from hidden enemies & 
mysterious disease's like cancer, and success in Ketu related business. 

Mantra “Om Nava Vaktrasya Om Hrim Hum Namah” 

Start day: Thursday 


147 


10. Dos Mukhi (Ten faces) - RARE 

Ruling Deity: Pra Vishnu 

Recommended for: Pacifying the nine Jyotish planets. 

Shakti: To acquire the mercy and protection of Lord Vishnu in all His 
Ten Incarnations. Also known to pacify Nava-graha or the Nine Jyotish 
Planets (Nava-graha shanta) 

Mantra “Om Aksham Dos Vaktrasya Om Hrim Namah” 

Start day: Sunday 


11. Ekaadasha Mukhi (Eleven faces) - RARE 

Ruling Deity: Pra Hanuman (Maha-Vishnu-bhakta) 

Recommended for: Over all well-being & strength. 

Shakti: Hanuman personifies knowledge, virtues, dexterity, and abilities - 
these virtues are attained by one who wears an eleven faced Rudraksha. 
Mantra “Om Ekaadasha Vaktrasya Om Hrim Hum Namah” 

Start day: Any day 


12. Dvaadasha Mukhi (Twelve faces) - RARE 

Ruling Deity: Sun 

Recommended for: Disease of the lungs, Skin, Stomach, throat, and 
Bowels. 

Shakti: Pleasing to Sun, increase confidence, victory, energy, fame, 
leadership, spiritual knowledge, and success in Sun related business. 
Mantra: “Om Dvraadasha Vaktrasya Om Krom Srom Rom Namah” 
Start day: Any day 


13. Trayodasha Mukhi (Thirteen faces) - VERY RARE 

Ruling Deity: Venus and Pra Kamadeva 

Recommended for: Meditation and spiritual attainments. 

Shakti: Pleasing to Venus, comfort, health, pleasure, art, music, 
entertainment, sex, good food, fine cloths, love, and success in Venus 
related business. 

Mantra “Om Trayodasha Vaktrasya Om Hrim Namah” 

Start day: Friday 


14, Chaturdasha Mukhi (Fourteen faces) - VERY VERY RARE 
Ruling Deity: Pra Hanuman & Pra Shiva and Saturn 

Recommended for: Safety and riches. 

Shakti: Pleasing to mighty Saturn, tolerance, humility, steadfastness, 
patience, counteracts the harmful influence of Saturn, and grants success 
in Saturn related business. Especially useful to counteract the harmful 
influence of Sade Sati (Saturn Natal Moon transit). Fourteen face 
Rudraksha is considered to be Deva-mani or most divine Rudraksha. 
Mantra ‘Om Chaturdasha Vaktrasya Om Namah” 

Start day: Monday 


15. Panchadasha Mukhi (Fifteen faces) - VERY RARE 

Ruling Deity: Pra Shiva 

Recommended for: Improving intuitive, Abstract and Lateral thinking. 
Shakti: Fifteen face Rudraksha is the seed of Lord Shiva (Auspicious 
One) and is very helpful in economic success. It keeps one free of disease 
and poverty. It can grant great wealth (if one's karma permits). 

Mantra “Om Rudra Panchadasha Vaktrasya Om Namah Shivaya” 

Start day: Any day 


148 


SPECIAL 1: Gauri-Shankar (conjoined-seeds) 

Ruling Deity: Pra Shiva & Uma / Planet: Moon 

Shakti: Invoking the mercy of both Lord Shiva & Goddess Parvati 
(Gauridevi) it grants all around well-being and prosperity, especially 
useful in attaining family harmony. 

Mantra “Om Sri Gauri-Shankaraya Namah” 

Start day: Any day 


SPECIAL 2: Ganesha (Elephant trunk) 
Ruling Deity: Pra Ganesha 
Shakti: Remover or obstacle's in all fields of virtue and economics. 


Mantra “Om Gum Ganapataye: Namah” 
Start day: Any day 


Sri Rudra Mahadeva 
blissful in Kailash 


RY RARE “Dvi-mukhi~ 
2-faced Rudraksha from 
epal. Set in 21k gold with a 
fine natural pearl. 


Dvi (2) mukhi side view Dyi (2) mukhi front view 


Pancha (5) mukhi Rudraksha 
for Jupiter, setin gold with a 
flawless yellow sapphire 


“Nava (9) Mukhi? Rudraksha 
RARE 10-faced “Gauri- set in 21k gold with fine 
Shankar” Rudraksha (two chrysoberyl cat’s eye. 

seeds conjoined), set in gold 

with the Navaratna (9 Gems) 


149 


AVI 
Sv Kailash Sula 


A Priceless Stone of Mount Kailash 


PR... is a unique 1" tall Sri Kailash Shila, shaped like the Great Peak. This Kailash- 
Shila was given to Richard S. Brown on his 50th birthday by His Excellency Indian Ambassador 
to Thailand Sri Ranjit Gupta, who once made the arduous trek to walk around 
Mount Kailash, and brought back this priceless 
”Kailash-Shila” with his own hands. 


“Om namah shivaya!” “Om namah shivaya!? “Om namah shivaya!” This is the Sanskrit mantra 
(invocation) chanted by pilgrims and devotees of Lord Shiva as they walk (clock wise) around 
the great, sacred Himalayan peak, Mount Kailash. This chant means, “Om, I bow to Lord 
Shiva.” And this act of great austerity is considered by both Hindus & Buddhists alike as a very 
pious and difficult sacrifice leading to good fortune and ultimate beatitude. 


In the Sanskrit-English dictionary of Prof. V.S. Apte, “Kailash” is defined as, “Name of a 
mountain, a peak of the Himalayas and residence of Shiva.” In the same dictionary, “Shiva” is 
defined as, “Auspicious, propitious, lucky, in good health or condition, happy, prosperous, 
fortunate, God bless!, name of the third God of the sacred Hindu Trinity (Tri-guna-avatara’s), 
who is entrusted with the work of universal destruction, as Brahma and Vishnu are with the 
creation and preservation of the (material) world(s) respectively.” 


Shiva also has many other meanings listed such as, “Final beatitude, the male organ (lingam), 
the Vedas (ancient Sanskrit scriptures), and the husband of Goddess Durga (Maya-devi), who is 
also known as Sati, Uma, and Parvati; and she is Shiva’s shakti (material energy). Together Lord 
Shiva and Goddess Durga reside on Mount Kailash for the duration of the cosmic manifestation 

or the life-span of the temporary material universe. 


150 


Stones (rocks) from Mount Kailash are brought back by the stalwart devotees who take the 
one-two month trip to walk around the base of the sacred Mount. These stones or “bits” of 
Mount Kailash are considered to be non-different from Lord Shiva, who is greater than the 
sum total of the entire universe; therefore it is considered an “offence” to buy or sell a Sri 
Kailash-shila (stone). It is impossible to place a “material value” on a Sri Kailash-mani. 


Time of invocation: Daily at Sunrise; 


Mantra of Invocation: Om namah shivaya! —108 times 


Sacred Mount Kailash as seen from a 
remote corner of Tibet. In one of the 
highest most isolated places on earth, is a 
grand snow-capped pyramid-shaped peak 
named Mt. Kailash. For thousands of 
years, Hindu & Buddlust pilgrims make 
the very arduous journey to walk around 
the mountain as an ancient ritual of 
devotion to Shiva (Auspicious), honoring 
Kailash as a site of immense 

spiritual power. 


151 


Pictured is a very rare specimen of a genuine Sri Lakshmi Conch 
also known as the Valampuri Shank - the right spiralling Conch 
Shell - Dakshin-varti Turbinella Pyrum) 


namaste’astu maha maye sri pate sura pujite 
shanka chakra gada haste maha lakshmi namo’astute 


900 year old 2.5 foot long Sri Lakshmi Shank covered in gold 


private collection of Richard Shaw Brown 


AVI 
Svt Lakshmi Shank 


The Most Sacred Shell on Earth 


Valampuri Shank (Sinistral 
Turbinella Pyrum), right, 
compared to normal conch Gandaki Shalagram Shila & Valampuri Lakshmi Shank 


onch Shells which spiral to the right are very rare and considered especially sacred, the right spiral 

mirroring the motion of the sun, moon, planets and stars across the sky. Also, the hair whorls on 

Buddha’s head spiral to the right, as do his fine bodily hairs, the long white curl between his eyebrows 
and the conch like swirl of his navel. The Lakshmi Conch shell is a sacred manifestation of Supreme Goddess 
Lakshmi, and is most effectively used to bath a genuine Gandaki vajra-kita Shalagram Shila (ammonite from 
Gandaki River in Nepal having chakra cut by Vajra-kita worms 140 million years ago). The TOP picture 
showing a genuine Lakshmi Conch with a genuine Shalagram Shila is one of a kind. VERY RARE PHOTO. 


Shastra says “bone” is impure, BUT, Conch Shell (Indian Turbinella Pyrum) is super-pure, even to bathe the 
Deities. Even Lakshmi Devi and Her Lord Narayana carry one in Their hand. Shastra doesn’t say ANY 
SHELL or EVERY SHELL is pure, it’s only Indian Shank (Turbinella Pyrum) that is pure. And these come 
in two types, normal left side opening AND special right side opening (Valampuri Dakshin-varti Turbinella 
Pyrum). Both are ruled by Goddess Lakshmi. It is not required to have right-side opening. Left side (nor- 
mal) opening Shank is perfect for puja. And Lakshmi Shank is even better than perfect. It is said by Con- 
chologists that only one Lakshmi Shank is found among 100,000 normal Indian Shanks. And ALL Indian 
shanks are pure and auspicious. 


BUT common Lightning Whelk (busycon contrarium), with no internal formation and no ridges in the 
conch cavity - is a bogus non-pure shell. And many temples use this non-conch simply because they have 
been hoodwinked by con men. 


Fact: The left side opening OR the right side opening Turbinella Pyrum Indian Conch - with 3 to 7 ridges in 
the conch cavity, and special internal structure is the ONLY Shank that is Vedic. The normal left-side open- 
ing Conch is very low price, even less than the bogus ones (Lightning Whelk), and only the Indian Shank is 
correct for puja. 


Genuine Valampuri Lakshmi Shank Turbinella Pyrum Conch shells sell by the gram. Normal size is about 60- 
120 grams. Depending on quality and number of ridges in the conch cavity they sell for between Rs. 1,000 
up to Rs. 3,000 per gram. This means that a genuine Lakshmi Shank can be had for a few thousand dollars 
ONLY. So no one has any excuse to use a non-conch shell. Everyone can use either a $2 normal Shank OR a 
$2,000 Lakshmi Shank. BUT, USE A SHANK, ONLY!. 


153 


Gandaki River in Nepal 


Sri Shalagram Sula 


The Most Sacred Gem Stone 


P.. on the opposite page is an exceptionally perfect and very rare “Vamana” 
Shalagram Shila adorned with the sacred Chakra of Lord Sri Vishnu. 
This Shalagram is also known as “Vasudev.” 
Origin: The Krishna-Gandaki River in Nepal. According to the Gautamiya Tantra, “A stone 
from any place other than the Gandaki River in Nepal can never be a Shalagram Shila.” 


In Sri Hari-bhakti-vilas it is stated, “merely by touching a genuine Shalagram Shila one becomes free 
from the sins of millions of births, so what to speak of worshiping Him. By puja of Shalagram Shila 
one gains the direct association of Lord Hari.” The Skanda Purana states that, “a genuine 
Shalagram Shila is directly a manifestation of the Supreme Lord Vishnu and 

does not require any installation.” 


It is further stated that, “the sale or purchase of a Shalagram Shila is strictly prolibited. Anyone who 
attempts to determine the material value of a Shalagram Shila will live in hell until the end of the 
universe. The area within a radius of twenty-four miles from where a Shalagram Shila 1s worshiped is 
considered a holy place (tirtha). Anyone who sees, bathes, worships, or bows to a Shalagram Shila will 
receive the same piety as doing millions of sacrifices and giving 

millions of cows in charity.” 


Without having accumulated pious activities, it is very difficult to find a Shalagram Shila in this 
world, especially in the age of Kali-Yuga.” In the Padma Purana it is stated, “af'a devotee who ts 
properly initiated in prescribed mantras does the puja of Sri Shalagram Shila, he will attain the 
Supreme Lord’s spiritual abode without a doubt.” 


Sri Shalagram Shila is manifest externally as a water-tumbled stone; therefore Shalagram Shilas 
may be said to be gems. The word “gem” is used for any fine quality stone, pearl, seed, tooth, or 
coral that is rare, attractive, portable, durable, valuable, and powerful; in the case of Shalagram 

Shila the ruling Deity is Lord Hari, also known as Sri Vishnu Narayana Bhagavan. 


Because a Shalagram Shila is ruled by Bhagavan, Who is greater than the sum total of ALL the 
universes (mahat-tattva), therefore the ‘material’ worth of a real Shalagram Shila is beyond 
calculation and impossible to measure. Buying /selling a Shalagram Shila is considered offensive; 
receiving a gift of a genuine Shalagram Shila from a qualified Hari-bhakta is the only way to 
properly obtain such a priceless and spiritual (and material) treasure. 


A normal fine quality planetary gem, like a ruby or pearl, needs only an initial invocation to begin 
ownership; but a Sri Shalagram Shila must be worshiped daily with certain paraphernalia such as 
Tulasi leaves, Ganga-jaal, fruit and fragrant flowers, etc. Puja is offered to Shalagram Shila 
according to the desire of Paramatma within the heart of the devotee. Sri Shalagram Shila 
ALWAYS controls his Own worship from within the heart of His devotees; and being 
“atmarama” (Self-satisfied) He never feels any inconvenience. 


154 


Sri Shalagram Shila with Chakra e front view 


Antique carving of 
Lord Sri Krishna, 
the Spiritual Deity 
pervading a Sri 
Shalagram Shila, 
here pictured as 

a boy flute player. 
Set in 21k gold 
“Pra” pendant 
with a flawless 
yellow sapphire 

in the halo. Rare 
carving courtesy 
of Asian Antiques 
expert Andrew E. 
R. Rogers. 


c= aes 


Td Wij; ‘s 


< * at aD 


Sri Shalagram Shila with Chakra ¢ side view 


e Authorized by Srila A.C. Bhakti Vedanta Swami Prabhupada - 3/11/76. 

¢Given to the author by Sadhu Sri Hari-siddhi Kali Baba in Nepal - 1976 

¢ Pujari: Hrisikesananda das 

¢ Vedic Information from Sri Hari-bhakti-vilas translated by Sri Padmanabha 
Goswami, Sri Radha-Ramana Temple, Vrindavana, U.P., India. 

eSri Shalagram photos by Khun Adisorn Wattanavanich 

eFor more information visit www.salagram.net 


f 
Hari-siddhi Kali Baba 


Nepal ¢ 1975 


Hider) 


XX 
Glossary 


ADULARESCENCE: An optical phenomenon applied to orthoclase or adulria feldspar that exhibits a 
floating, billowy, white or bluish light effect. 


AGGREGATE: Crystalline aggregate made up of many particles, each of an individual crystal too small to be 
seen by the unaided eye. 


ANTAR-DASHA: Minor planetary period. 
BHAVA: House in a horoscope 


BIREFRINGENCE: The strength of double refraction measured by taking the difference between the high 
and low refractive indices of a doubly refractive gemstone. 


CHANDRA-RAST: Moon sign. 


CRYSTAL SYSTEM: One of the six groups of crystal patterns in which minerals and other crystalline solids 
occur. They are : cubic, tetragonal, hexagonal, orthorhombic, monoclinic and triclinic. 


CUBIC: Highly symmetrical crystal system with three equal crystallographic axes at right angles. 
DICHROISM: The property of doubly refractive colored gemstones of transmitting two different colors in 
two different directions caused by their unequal absorption of the two portions of a doubly refracted beam of 
light. 

DISPERSION: The property of a transparent gemstone to separate white light into its component colors. 
DOUBLE REFRACTION: The property of separating a single ray of light into two. 

FLUORESCENCE: The emission of visible light by a gem when exposed to ultraviolet or X-radiation. 


GAURA-PAKSHA: The bright fortnight. 


HEXAGONAL: A crystal system having three equal axes at 60 degrees and a fourth axes perpendicular to the 
other three and unequal in length. 


INCLUSION: Any internal foreign body or imperfection in a gem. 
JANMA-PATRIKA: Sidereal horoscope. 
JYOTISH: Vedic sidereal astrology. 


JYOTISH-ACARYA: A master-teacher of Vedic sidereal astrology. 


KAVACHA: A shield, amulet or talisman. 
KETU: The Moon’s descending (South) node. 
KRISHNA-PAKSHA: The dark fortnight. 
KRURA-GRAHBA: A harmful planet. 

LAGNA: Rising sign. 


MAHA-DASHA: Major planetary period. SRI NAVA-RATNA: 


The Nine Gems 
156 


MANI: Gem or jewel. A natural pearl, coral, shell, seed, tooth, or mineral that is valued for its durability, rarity, 
portability, beauty, perfection or astrological-metaphysical-piezoelectric influence. 


MANTRA: A combination of transcendental (Sanskrit) sound vibrations with the power to deliver the mind from 
material limitations. 


MATRIX: The rock in which a mineral is contained. 


MOHS SCALE: The most commonly used scale of relative hardness of minerals with numbers from one to ten 
assigned to ten minerals of increasing hardness from talc to diamond. 


MONOCLINIC: A crystal system with two axes unequal in length at right angles to one another and a third axes 
of unequal length which is not at right angles to the plane of the other two. 


NAKSHATRA: Moon constellation (There are 27 constellations). 


NAVA-RATNA: The 9 Gems, viz., ruby, natural pearl, yellow sapphire, hessonite, emerald, diamond, cat’s eye, 
blue sapphire and red coral. 


OPTIC CHARACTER: The nature of a gem as either uniaxial (singly refractive) or biaxial (doubly refractive). 
ORIENT: The iridescent luster of a pearl. 


ORTHORHOMBIC: A crystal system with three axes of unequal length, each perpendicular to the plane of the 
other two axes. 


PANCHA-RATNA: The Five Gems. 


PLEOCHROISM: The property of most doubly refractive colored gemstones of exhibiting either two or more 
different colors when observed through a dichroscope in transmitted light. 


RAHU: The Moon’s ascending (North) node. 

RAST: Zodiac sign. 

RATNA: Gem or jewel (ref. Mani above). 

REFRACTIVE INDEX: A measure of the amount a light ray is bent as it enters or leaves a gemstone. 
SAPTA-RATNA: The Seven Gems. 

SHUBHA-GRAHA: A helpful planet. 

SIDEREAL: Constellational astrology. 


SINGLE REFRACTION: When a light ray enters either an isometric or amorphous gem substance, it remains 
intact and is refracted in the normal manner as a singly ray. 


SPECIFIC GRAVITY: The ratio of the weight of a gemstone to that of an equal volume of water at 4 degrees 
centigrade. 


STOTRAM: A Sanskrit prayer and invocation. 


TETRAGONAL: A crystal system with two axes equal in length and at right angles with a third axes at right 
angles to the first two. 


TRICHROISM: The property of most doubly refractive, colored gemstones belonging to the orthorhombic, 
monoclinic, and triclinic crystal systems, of transmitting three different colors in three different directions when 
observed through a dichroscope in transmitted light. 


TRICLINIC: The least symmetrical crystal system with three axes, no two of which are of equal length and no 
two of which are perpendicular to one another. 


TRI-RATNA: The Three Gems. 
157 


Bibhography 


Prof. P.S. Shastri. Text Book of Scientific Hindu Astrology. Ranjan Publications, 16 Ansari Rd., Daryaganj, 
New Delhi - 110002 India. 2000 


M.N. Dutt (translator). Garuda Puranam. The Chowkhamba Sanskrit Series Office, Varanasi-1, India. 1968. 
M.N. Dutt (translator). Agni Puranam. The Chowkhamba Sanskrit Series Office, Varanasi-1, India. 1967. 


Thai translation by late Horacharn Thep Sarikabutr. Jataka Parijata, compiled by Sri Vaidyanatha Dikshitar, 
(Thai publishing information available on request). 


Radhakrishna Parasara. Ratna-vijnana. The Chowkhamba Vidyabhawan, Varanasi, U.P., India. 1972. 


Mahan Vir Tulli. The A to Z of Astrology. Sterling Publishers, L-10, Green Park Extension, New Delhi - 
110016, India. 2000 


Mahan Vir Tulli. Gems Therapy. Sagar Publications, 72, Janpath, Ved Mansion, New Delhi - 110001. 1999 


Mahan Vir Tulli. Gems in Human Destiny. Gyan Sagar Publications, C-143, Preet Vihar, Delhi 110092. 
1997 


Prof. Dr. A. K. Bhattacharya. Gem Therapy. Firma KLM Pvt. Ltd., 257- B.B. Ganguly Street, Calcutta - 12. 
India. 1971. 


P.N. Scherman. Gems and Their Occult Powers. Scherman, 68/6 Kidwai Nagar, Ext. - 1, Kanpur, India. 
1979. 


N. N. Saha. Precious Stones That Heal. Allied Publishers Pvt., Ltd., 13/14 Asaf Ali Road, New Delhi 
110002, India. 1980. 


Raj Roop Tank. Indian Gemology. Dulichand Kirtichand Tank, Johari Bazaar, Jaipur 302003, India. 1971. 
Dr. G. S. Kapur. Ratna-pradip. Goyal & Co., Dariba, Delhi-110006, India. 1974 


Dr. Narayana Dutt Srimali. Jyotish & Ratna. Kusum Prakasan, 17 Shivacharan Lal Road, Mahabad-3, India. 
1975 


Richard T. Liddicoat, Jr. Handbook of Gem Identification. G.I.A., 1660 Stewart Street, Santa Monica, Calif. 
90406, U.S.A. 1981. 


Dr. Neeraj Lalwan. Gem Therapy in Vedic Astrology. Gyan Publishing House, 5 Ansari Road, Daryaganj, 
New Delhi-110 002, India. 2000 


Howard Beckman. Mantras, Yantras & Fabulous Gems, The Vedic Cultural Fellowship, HC70 Box 620 
Pecos, NM 87552 USA 


Tom Hopke. How to Read Your Horoscope. The Vedic Cultural Assn., 51 Coelho Way, Honolulu, Hawaii 
95817, U.S.A. 1988. 


Richard Brown. Sri Chintamani Astro Jewels. Bangkok, Thailand. 1975 


Richard S. Brown. Handbook of Planetary Gemology. Mckinney Intl., P.O. Box 98842, T.S.T., Hong Kong. 
1982 & 1988. 


Richard S. Brown. Ancient Astrological Gemstones & Talismans. AGT LTD., 99/22 Soi 7 Lang Suan Road, 
Lumpini, Bangkok 10330, Thailand. 1995 


158 


Richard S. Brown. Astral Gemstone Talismans Designs 2000. AGT LTD., 99/22 Soi 7 Lang Suan Road, 
Lumpini, Bangkok 10330, Thailand. 2000 


Richard S. Brown. Astral Gemstone Talismans New Designs 2002. Hrisikesh Ltd., C3 Building, Suan 
Lum Night Bazaar, 1875 Rama IV Road, Lumpini, Bangkok 10330, Thailand. 2002 


Richard S. Brown. Astral Gemstone Talismans “VOOM Collection” 2003. Hrisikesh Ltd., C3 Building, 
Suan Lum Night Bazaar, 1875 Rama IV Road, Lumpini, Bangkok 10330, Thailand. 2003 


Richard S. Brown. Astral Gemstone Talismans “6 Collection” 2004. Hrisikesh Ltd., C3 Building, Suan 
Lum Night Bazaar, 1875 Rama IV Road, Lumpini, Bangkok 10330, Thailand. 2004 


Richard S. Brown. Astral Gemstone Talismans “Sri Chintamani Collection” 2005. Hrisikesh Ltd., C3 
Building, Suan Lum Night Bazaar, 1875 Rama IV Road, Lumpini, Bangkok 10330, Thailand. 2005 


Richard S. Brown. Astral Gemstone Talismans “Akash Collection 2006,” Hrisikesh Ltd., C3 Building, 
Suan Lum Night Bazaar, 1875 Rama IV Road, Lumpini, Bangkok 10330, Thailand. 2006 


G. F. Kunz. The Curious Lore of Precious Stones. Dover Publications, Inc., 180 Varick St., New York 
10014. 1971. 


S. M. Tagore. Mani- Mala. I. C. Bose & Co., Calcutta, India. 1879 


Prof. B. V. Raman. Astrology For Beginners. IBH Prakashana, 
Fifth Main, Gandhinagar, Bangalore-560 009, India. 1983 


Dr. G. S. Kapoor. Gems and Astrology. Ranjan Publications, 
16 Ansari Road, Daryaganj, New Delhi-110002, India. 1991 


Dr. G. S. Kapoor. Remedial Measures In Astrology. Ranjan 
Publications, 16 Ansari Road, Daryaganj, New Delhi-110002, 
India. 1990 


J. N. Bhasin. Dictionary of Astrology. Ranjan Publications, 
16 Ansari Road, Daryaganj, New Delhi-110002, India. 1988 


N.N. Saha. Stellar Healing. Sagar Publications, Ved Mansion, 
72 Janpath, New Delhi 110001, India. 1976 


N.N. Saha. Healing Through Gems. Sterling Publishers Pvt. Ltd., 
L-10, Green Park Extension, New Delhi 110016, India. 1992 


Harish Johari. The Healing Power of Gemstones. Destiny Books, One Park Street, Rochester, Vermont 
05767, USA. 1988 


159 


About the 


Author & 
Designer 


Richard Shaw Brown, the founder of Astral Gemstone Talismans and the Planetary Gemologists 
Association Global, was born the only son of Col. Richard S. Brown, Sr. (USAF retired) and 
Elizabeth “Bette” Mae Brown. 


Richard experienced his first taste of fame as the lead singer and song writer of the innovative 
international rock group “The Misunderstood,” which rose to stardom in London during the late 
Sixties at the same time the Beatles were taking the world by storm. 


Just as major musical success was assured, the American Army draft claimed lead singer, Rick 
Brown for the Vietnam War; and the group was forced to disband. Already a pacifist, he opposed 
the War and was a conscientious objector. 


Fortuitously, at this point Richard met and was instructed by the exalted Indian Guru, Swami 

Bhaktivedanta (Swamiji), who ordained him “Hrisikesh.” With his new-found direction in life 

Richard (now Hrisikesh) chose to leave America; bound to study and practice Vedic religion at 
the holy pilgrimage town of Vrindavan in Northern India. 


In Swamiji's absence, under the watchful guidance of his foster-Guru, Tridandi Swami Bhakti 
Hridaya Bon Maharay, he lived the ascetic life of a traditional monk for six and a half years; 
devoting himself entirely to religious devotion and public service. Under Swami Bon's guidance 
Richard studied arduously and became proficient in the Sanskrit, Hindi & Bengali languages. 
At the same time, he helped Swami Bon build two schools in Nandagram and 
Vrindavan (U.P.), India. 


Through his public service he was befriended by India's President V.V. Giri and the Chairman of 
India’s Law Commission, Dr. Gajendra Gadkar. His dedicated public service also brought him 
close relationships with many Indian industrial giants, such as Jai Dayal Dalmia, D. M. 
Kathau, G. D. Somani, Dr. Kailash, Srimati Sumati Morarji, L. N. Birla, Hans Raj Gupta, 
Mayor Kapil Mohan, actor Devanand, and numerous uppermost Indian dignitaries, 
movie stars and VIPs. 


From 1972 to 1973 Richard was appointed Secretary to the Institute of Oriental Philosophy in 
Vrindavan, India; as well as Assistant Editor of the Institute’s quarterly Journal, 
“Indian Philosophy & Culture.” 


With his Indian religion and language proficiency, Hristkesh earned the monastic title Swami 
Lalitananda and addressed audiences on many occasions, including the classical Indian 
discussion among scholars on the 18,000-verse "Srimad Bhagavatam"; which he organized at 
New Delhi’s premiere venue, the Vijnana Bhavan, in 1972. 


After 7 years of public service in India, he was inspired to rejoin Ins true spiritual master, Swami 
Bhaktivedanta, who ordered him to give up the monastic title which had been awarded him by 


160 


Swami Bon and return to his original spiritual name - Hrisikesh. Under Swamiji's direct order he 
moved to Nepal where he became involved in construction of a School in Dhulkhel, Sri Hari Siddin 
Primary School. There Richard also built a separate Youth Centre and Public Library 
in the town square. 


Note: All three of Richard’s schools (Nandagram, Vrindavan and Sri Hari Siddhi Primary Schools) 
are still in operation today. 


A strange twist of fate involved him in a new ruby mine located in Southern India. It ignited his 
interest in gemstones and inspired him to undertake an in-depth study of the ancient Sanskrit classics 
concerning gemology; which he uses as reference books until today. 


Combining his technical knowledge of gems with the planetary aspects revealed to him in the Sanskrit 
texts, Richard Brown began developing his own unique system of designing auspicious 
Astral Gemstone Talismans. 


After 12 years in Asia, in 1979 he returned to America to complete his formal technical training at the 
Gemological Institute of America (G.I.A.). Subsequently he moved to the Kingdom of Thailand where 
he has established himself as an International authority on planetary gemology and a cutting-edge fine 

jewellery designer; continuing to grow in distinction. 


Richard Shaw-Brown’s first book on gems, “Sri Chintamami Astro Jewels,” was published in 1975. He 
has now authored nine books on astral gemstones and their powers, including; “Handbook of Planetary 
Gemology” and “Ancient Astrological Gemstones & Talismans.” 


Richard has also written four books on Vedic mysticism, including “Sri Bepin Sakhi Vilas” which was 
first published in 1970. 


Since moving to Thailand Richard has appeared on TV 30 times, published over 240 articles, authored 
nine big books on Gemology and jewelry design, and given numerous talks and lectures on 
Planetary Gemology (Graha-anukula-ratna-vishesajna). 


He has talked extensively all over the world on planetary gemology at conventions and seminars 
sponsored by gemological, cultural, astrological, metaphysical and occult associations. 


In 1988 a book was written about Richard's life by American writer Daniel P. Reid. 


A movie screenplay based on Richard's life was written in 2002 by British music historian Mike Stax 
and is under development for adaptation as a "mystical musical adventure" motion picture. 


Richard Shaw-Brown II is a resident of Thailand where he lives with his wife 
Navaratna and their son Jiva. 


Martian Astral Talisman. 

Richard has Cancer lagna, 

therefore Mars is “yoga-karaka” 

or best planet in the horoscope. 

He also has Venus exalted in the 9th. 

So he has created this piece for Mars 

& Venus crafted in 21k or 90% pure gold 
featuring an exceptional 6 carat flawless 

red coral with half carat diamonds on each side. 
The ring has curved tubes containing the herbal 
bhasma for Mars. Piece no. 9990 


For more information visit www.richardshawbrown.com 


161 


The Definitive Guide 
to Astral-Gemology 


"I am pleased to convey to you the Royal sincere thanks for the 
kind presentation."---M.L. Thawisan Ladawan, His Majesty 
the King of Thailand's Principal Private Secretary, 
March 22, 1995 


"Their Majesties the King and Queen have commanded me to 
convey to you their thanks and appreciation for the gemology 
book, "Ancient Astrological Gemstones & Talismans. "--- 
Narendra Raj Panday, Press Secretary to H.M. the King of 
Nepal. Sept. 1995 


"Her Royal Highness thanks you for creating the most beauti- 
ful and interesting book."---Mrs. Darunee Pulsup, Secretary 
to H.R.H. Princess Galyani Vatana of Thailand, 

Feb. 13, 1995 


"A commendable work that can well be used as a valuable 
reference for future students."---H.E. Chuan Leekpai, Prime 
Minister of Thailand. May 1995 


"A well compiled book."---Hon. Sirimavo R.D. Bandaranaike, 
Prime Minister of Sri Lanka. Dec. 1997 


"Insightful account of ancient Vedic science of Planetary 
Gemology."---H.E. Sri S.R. Bommai, Minister, Human 
Resource Development, India. Nov. 1997 


"We in Sri Lanka also have a strong demand for astrological 
gemstones to be worn to ward off planetary ill effects, but I do 
not think that any author or gemmologist has gone to the extent 
that you have done to publicize their great importance."---A E 
T Ellawala, Chairman, National Gem & Jewellery Authority 

of Sri Lanka. Nov. 1997 


"A complete guide on gems in astrology. Whether tt 1s the color 
plates of the eye-dazzling gemstones or the text that wins 1s 
tough to decide but worth every bit of the price." ---The 
Astrological Magazine (India). 1995 


"Like a gem itself, so much filled with color joy and hope for all 
who like to possess jewels"---Mystic India, April 1996 


S ee ke Sor ancient Oriental wisdom 


will be well rewarded by this comprehensive study of gemstones 

and their astrological powers. Author Richard Shaw Brown, a Graduate 

of the Gemological Institute of America (G.I.A.), has spent most of his life 
in the East, where he has devoted himself to the study of the classical 
sidereal astrology of ancient India, focusing particularly on the relationships 
between gems, planetary astrology, and personal talisman jewelry. Those 
interested in the astral aspects of precious gems and how they relate to one’s 
personal karma will find abundant food for thought in this authoritative 
book on “Ancient Astrological Gemstones & 

Talismans”, which for the first time reveals the hidden 

astral powers of gems to Western readers. 


