ANCIENT HINDU 
ASTROLOGY 
FOR THE 
MODERN 
WESTERN 
ASTROLOGER 


by James Braha 


TABLE OF CONTENTS 


Prologue vii 
Acknowledgments viti 
Introduction ix 
Warning xiti 
The Hindu Zodiac 1 


Planetary Symbols, Direction Indicators & Body Rulerships 5 
The Chakra—The Birthchart 7 
The Nauamsa—The One-Ninth Division (Marriage Chart) 13 
Grahas—tThe Planets 


The Sun 17 
The Moon 19 
Mars 23 
Mercury 25 
Jupiter 27 
Venus 29 
Saturn 31 
Rahu and Ketu 33 
Bhauas—The Horoscope Houses 37 
Rasis—The Zodiac Signs 41 
Gaining Perspective of the Hindu System 43 
Friendships Between Planets 45 
Planetary Powers 47 
House Rulerships 49 
Drishtis—Planetary Aspects 55 
Shad Bala—Determining Planetary Strengths 59 
The Effect of Retrograde Planets 63 
House Karakas—House Indicators 65 
Kujados ha—Mars Affliction Affecting Married Life 67 

Upayes—Antidotes for Planetary Afflictions (Gemstones 
and Mantras) 69 
Planets in the Houses 77 
1st House—House of the Body 79 


2nd House—House of Finances 91 


Planets in the Houses (continued) 
3rd House—House of Siblings 


4th House—House of Happiness and Comforts 

Sth House—House of Children 

6th House—House of Enemies 

7th House—House of Wife 

8th House—House of Death 

9th House—House of Fortune 

10th House—House of Activities (Occupation) 

lith House—House of Gains and Profits 

12th House—House of Expenditure and Loss 
Vimsottari Dasa System of Prediction 
Delineation of Dasa Bhuktis—The Planetary Periods 
Transits—Predicting Marriage, Pregnancy, 

Homes & Cars, Etc. 


101 
111 


121 
133 
143 


155 
169 


183 
195 
205 
217 
225 


233 


Maturity of Planets—When Planets Give Their Full Effects 237 


Yogas—Planetary Unions 


Horoscopes of Famous People 
Richard Nixon 


John Lennon 
John F. Kennedy 
Marilyn Monroe 
Lyndon Baines Johnson 
Jackie Onassis 
Werner Erhard 
Francis Ford Coppola 
Paul Newman 
Mahatma Gandhi 
Muhammed All 
Martin Luther King 
Jimmy Carter 
John Glenn 
Baba Ram Das 
Vargas—The 16 Divisional Charts 
Chaleta Bhaua Kunda/i—The Diurnal Chart 
Predictive Method 
Ashtaka Varga—Eight-fold Division System 
Nakshatras—Lunar Mansions 
Free Will vs_Predestiny 
A Final Note 
Ecclesiastes Excerpt 
Glossary 
Bibliography 
Hermetician Press Services 


239 


245 
249 


255 
263 
269 
273 
279 
281 
285 
289 
291 
295 
297 
301 
305 
307 

31/1 


323 
325 
331 
333 
335 
337 
339 


347 
349 


PROLOGUE 


The following conversation took place in 1982, in Benares, India. It 
is an excerpt from the 1st Hindu astrology reading of the author's life. 
Astrologer:You are going to write some books. 

J.T.B.: What! !! 


Astrologer:You are going to write some books 


J.T.B.: Are you sure? 

Astrologer: Yes. 

J.T.B.: How many? 

Astrologer:A few, five or six. 

J.T.B.: Are you sure? 

Astrologer: Yes. 

J.T.B.: But are you sure? I mean are you positive? 

Astrologer: My dear friend, astrology is not an absolute science. 


J.T.B.: Ahhhhhh.... 


Astrologer: But you will write books! 


ACKNOWLEDGMENTS 


I wish to express my gratitude to the following people: To Bob & 
Mary Jo Holtzman for suggesting that this book be written. To Sri R. 
Santhanam & Sri Poputlal M. Padia, my mentors during two separate 
journeys to New Delhi and Bombay; for so graciously sharing their knowl- 
edge and experience, I remain deeply indebted. To Patricia L. Rogers, for 
her editing assistance and valuable suggestions; to Jane Tobal for all of 
her time, artwork, support, and spiritual vibrations; to Harold Benjamin, 
for his insights into Stri Jataka—female horoscopy; and to my brother 
Charles whose support has enabled this work to be brought out 
expeditiously. 


To Gopiparanadhana dasa for his Sanskrit translations; to Dravida 
dasa for his valuable grammatical assistance; to Rohini Priya dasa and 
Dhaneshvara dasa of ISKCON for their care and artistic expertise in the 
production of this book, as well as for their kindness and sattwa. To 
Maria Walz for her assistance through the difficult days, and astrologer 
Larry Sands of New Hampshire for his inspired classes some years back. 
And to Mary Beth Farkas, Shirley Chubin, Lilly (La Paz) Chilla, Peter 
Jones, Mary Jane Holt, Daniel Buls, Sheldon Epps, Mike Perrie, Kerry 
Breitbart, Cheryl Goodman, Willis Backus, James Macedo, and Dr. Chuck 


Jacobs. 


INTRODUCTION 


Ever since my first journey to India I have desired to share the 
knowledge I was fortunate enough to receive. I have also felt a need to 
dispel some rather major misconceptions, the main one being the fact 
that Hindu astrology is extraordinarily difficult. This is not true, as will 
soon hopefully be revealed. 


Although I have always been most fascinated with astrology because 
of the philosophical implications and revelations which can be 
extracted, I have done my best to keep philosophy from this work, as that 
is not my present purpose. It is my intention only to present Hindu 
astrology in a way that it deserves to be presented, which is long overdue— 
a way which Western astrologers can understand and utilize, and which 
will clear away the mystery and finally put into perspective the 
enormously complex techniques which make up the bulk of most 
textbooks on the subject. 


Having worked with both the Hindu and Western systems, it is my 
experience that the two greatly complement each other and together form 
the basis for a complete and profound astrology. For the many past centu- 
ries the two diverse astrological methodologies have remained separated. 
As the world now approaches the new age (of Aquarius), where the 
science of the stars will be a prevalent discipline, great leaps and bounds, 
indeed breakthroughs, in astrology are rapidly being made. It is my belief 
that we are now at one of the most fascinating junctures in the history of 
this science, a point in time when differences shall begin to merge and 
dissolve and the two systems will come together. 


It is perfectly appropriate that for all this time the Western world 
has been satisfied with an astrology which excels in delineating character 
disposition, talents, abilities, and possibilities. Western culture is steeped 
in the philosophy of free will, where man may do what he will with what 
he was born with, the extent of success and its trappings being depend- 
ent only upon how far the individual is willing to go to realize his desires. 
On the other hand, the Hindus have for several thousands of years 
worked with their predictive system, which fortells more than anything 
else the events and circumstances of a person's life. This is only natural 
in view of Indian life, where there has existed a caste system which has 
determined that the son of a servant shall also be a servant and a mer- 
chant's son shall always be a merchant. More than that, India has for so 


is, as perhaps only one who has seen India firsthand may know, almost 
no possible way to rise above the circumstances one is born under— 
unless, that is, destiny as revealed in the stars determines otherwise. 


And so it is that Hindu predictive astrology is perhaps 95% con- 
cerned with a person's fame, fortune, wealth, etc., and 5% with his per- 
sonality, motivation, and psychology. Explanations or answers to the 
whys and wherefores of a person's life are essentially nonexistent. There 
is no delineation of what path one must undertake in order to learn spe- 
cific lessons or further his evolution. Rather contrary to what Westerners 
might think, our Western astrology is more "spiritual" while the ancient 
Hindu system is more mundane. And interestingly, the outer planets 
Uranus, Neptune, and Pluto. which are so prominent in Western astrology 
and which many consider nature's instruments helping to bring about 
the new age, are unnecessary in this predictive work and are widely 
ignored in India. However, in terms of consistently and accurately deli- 
neating events, circumstances, and periods in a person's life, nothing 
compares to Hindu astrology. It is simply marvelous. It is especially help- 
ful to Western astrologers in confirming or specifying exactly what a tran- 
sit or progression may be revealing and whether it is indicating an inter- 
nal occurrence or something in the outer world. For as far as external 
events are concerned, much less goes on in a person's life unaccounted 
for in this predictive system than in Western astrology. 


There are now those in the East who are captivated by Western 
astrology, and it is simply a matter of time before our system takes its 
rightful place next to the square-shaped Indian horoscope. For in the 
same way that Westerners are now familiar with and believing in karma 
and predestiny, and wanting to know their fate, Indians are escaping 
their caste system and questioning their age old traditions. They are also 
asserting their own individual wills more than ever before. For these and 
whatever other reasons, ancient Hindu predictive astrology and the more 
modern Western system are about to be used together, and the result is 
greater efficiency, accuracy, and knowledge for all concerned. 


Hindu astrology is not intrinsically more difficult than Western 
astrology. It may appear so because a seemingly infinite number of rules 
and astrological techniques have been developed by the Indians. This is of 
course natural for a society over 6,000 years old whose elders have not 
only employed astrology but embraced it. These time-consuming tech- 
niques and complexities present an opportunity rather than a hindrance, 
and when kept in perspective they allow for more subtlety, accuracy, and 
the privilege to go deeper into the work. With this in mind, a great deal of 
care has gone into the presentation of the material in this book. It is felt 
that most books on this subject have unwittingly kept Westerners faith- 
fully away! This is also largely due to most Hindu authors’ lack of under- 
standing of the Western mind, as well as perhaps their lack of dexterity 


with the English language. And in the very few cases of books on Hindu 
astrology by Western authors, the problem has been too much focus on 
extraneous, detailed techniques, with precious little emphasis on the 
essentials. The result has been mass confusion to the uninitiated. 


While a good many of the unnecessary complexities have been dis- 
criminatively omitted from this book, it is hoped that the reader will be 
able to establish enough of a working basis with the system to proceed 
further, and if desired, to even take on the almost endless maze of Hindu 
delineations that indeed exist. For Hindu astrology is so unlimited in its 
scope that this book is in a sense merely a beginning or an eye opener. 
And yet it contains all the essentials necessary to learn to uncover the fate 
of a person in regards to his outer circumstances and events. It is my 
wish that Western astrologers will take this work, embrace it, and further 
investigate and explore the use of Hindu predictive astrology alongside 
our modern system. It is, in my view, a very exciting proposition. If in the 
years to come, more books such as this are written by Westerners and 
appear in the marketplace, then this work will have achieved its purpose. 


January, 1986 


WARNING! 


Because Hindu astrology is the art of predicting actual events and 
circumstances in a person's life, it is by its very nature a rather intense 
and consequential proposition. It is therefore especially less appropriate 
to learn the practice from a book than from an experienced astrologer. 
And because the results of delineation are factual, greater precision is 
essential. Thus the astrological "cook book" approach, where all elements 
are broken down separately and interpreted as an end in themselves, falls 
short and leaves a good deal to be desired. However, since this is the 
medium at hand, all that can be done is to present the material and 
issue a stern caution regarding its proper use. 


First of all, it must be clearly understood that although any one 
particular condition in a birthchart may reveal quite a definite and pre- 
dictable effect, this aspect must absolutely be balanced with the enor- 
mous amount of other variables present. One need only consider that 
there are some 4 billion souls on the earth, each leading a different life, to 
realize the great variety of astrological combinations that must exist. 
Hindu astrology is, much more so than the Western system, a process of 
weighing the positive and negative forces attached to each specific issue. 
For example, if there are 3 or 4 strong indications of fame deduced from 
10th house analysis but the ascendant is badly afflicted, then the likeli- 
hood of acclaim is reduced to perhaps a 70-80% chance. Also, in this work 
there will often be a mixture of extreme indications, which demand both 
time and experience with the system before one may be able to draw the 
correct conclusions. For instance, if, in analyzing a person's mother, it is 
noted that the Moon is in its highest degree of exaltation but the 4th 
house is badly marred, then the mother may be fabulously wealthy, beau- 
tiful, and long-lived, but the person's relationship with her might be 
worthless at best. Or she could be very poor and die early but be an excep- 
tionally positive influence in the person's life. The possibilities are of 
course as limitless as life itself And although this author likes to believe 
that astrology is a scientific system, it must be acknowledged that the 
most accurate and profound "readings" experienced in India were by 
those who had been practicing for 15 or 20 years and clearly applied the 
use of intuition to their craft. 

In describing the effects of different astrological indications in this 
text, statements are frequently made in a decidedly definite and unquali- 
fied manner. This is simply the way of Hindu astrology, the way of scrip- 


tural teachings. Because Hindu astrology deals with actual occurrences, 
the writings are given in this way in order to empower the astrologer to 
comfortably make predictions. Therefore these statements of fact serve a 
functional purpose, even though each delineation is realistically perhaps 
only a possibility or a potential. It is strongly advised, then, that one not 
take every delineation to be "written in stone", at least until some 
degree of experience is gained. The task at hand in the beginning days is 
to glean the essence of each particular interpretation. If this advice is not 
heeded, there is a strong probability of going overboard with predictions, 
not to mention the fears that will be embedded in one's mind. For 
without a doubt nearly anyone analyzing his own horoscope through the 
use of the section titled "Planets in the Houses," will read that either his 
spouse, sibling, mother, or father "may suffer or die early". It must be 
understood that these are simply written words which hopefully point in 
the direction of the truth, but which take on no life or power without 
the consciousness and intelligence of an experienced astrologer who 
has taken all factors into account. And even then, of course, the greatest 
humility and broadmindedness are required by the practitioner, for who in 
this work is without error? ! ! 


There is another issue which, though not exclusive to Hindu 
astrology, is important to address lest the astrologer run into frustration. 
This is the matter of having a person disagree with what the birthchart 
has revealed about his past. This occurs at times simply because of the 
relativity of viewpoints. In other words, when a person is told, for example, 
that the horoscope reveals that his mother has led a life of hardship, he 
may flatly deny the claim. If the astrologer has properly made his analysis, 
what usually occurs is that the truth eventually shows up that the state- 
ment has been on the mark. However, the person perhaps could not agree 
because his idea of a "life of hardship" is not the same as the astrologer's. 
Therefore, it sometimes happens that information about the past is 
simply pointless to mention, though it may be especially beneficial to the 
counseling astrologer. Although this occurrence is no more typical than 
what happens in Western astrological counseling, it is rather more dis- 
concerting, because since what has been delineated is factual, one may 
find it absurd that the person cannot or will not remember or acknowl- 
edge certain central circumstances in his life. And though the burden of 
proof of course lies with the astrologer, experience has shown that this 
art is extremely reliable when practiced properly. 


In India there are several different systems of astrology in use. The 
most popular by far is Parasara, and this is the one given in this book. 
Two other systems which one may wish to study are Jaimini and Tajaka. 
However, these are complete within themselves and should not be in any 
way combined with Parasara. 


In all ancient Hindu texts, delineations are made with reference to 


men except when chapters are specifically devoted to "female horoscopy." 
In this book the pronoun "his" is employed, but only for the sake of 
ease of writing. Certainly no disrespect to women is intended, especially 
since at this time astrology seems to be more appreciated by them! 
Regarding female horoscopy, it is a field which seems to have been 
designed for men, since what is analyzed is a woman's virtue, chastity, 
and suitability as a wife. It is an entire system and not within the scope 

of this book. 


Finally, it may be reiterated that Hindu astrology employs more 
techniques in its basic analysis than the Western system. And it is crucial 
to consider all such elements before making any predictions. The na- 
vamsa or 1 /9th divisional chart, is essential, and any Indian astrologer 
making a prediction without its use merely gives away his ignorance and 
amateur status. Concerning the section on "Planets in the Houses" one 
must especially note whether the planet involved is in the house of a 
friend or an enemy. This will most definitely affect the result in a positive 
or negative way. Western astrologers used to a system with less basic vari- 
ables may be prone to make hurried judgements, and the words of P.M. 
Padia (one of the author's mentors) may be helpful. Indians over time 
have developed a delicious and very special-tasting tea called chaff: Sri 
Padia, after explaining the many different facets which would lead him to 
make a particularly accurate prediction, was fond of saying this: "My dear 
friend, chat is not simply water, sugar, and milk. It is a mixture of many 


THE HINDU ZODIAC | 


There is a fundamental difference between the zodiac used in 
Hindu astrology and the one used in the Western system. A Zodiac is an 
imaginary sphere encircling the heavens, inside of which the Sun, Moon, 
and planets travel in their orbits. This circular space is divided into 12 
equal parts of 30 degrees each, known as the zodiac signs. At one time 
these signs corresponded to actual fixed star constellations. However, 
due to the precession of the equinox, which moves at a mean or 
approximate rate of 50'/4 seconds per year or 1 degree every 70 years, the 
same connection no longer exists. At this point, after so many years of 
this slight movement, there is a difference of about 23 degrees between 
the constellations and the signs with the same names. Therefore, when a 
Westerner refers to the Sun being in 15 degrees of Libra, for instance, the 
statement is technically inaccurate, because the Sun, after being 
backed up 23 degrees, would actually reside in Virgo. 


The system which Western astrologers use, which is unrelated to 
the constellations, is called the tropical zodiac. The older and more tradi- 
tional zodiac employed by the Hindus, where there is no difference 
between a star constellation and the sign name given to it, is called the 
sidereal zodiac. The way the constellations are kept track of, to account 
for this slow but constant movement, is to cumulatively subtract the 
approximate 50'/4 seconds from the longitudes of the planets each year. 


Now that it is gathered that the Hindus use a "real" zodiac and 
Westerners a symbolic one, an important question naturally arises. Which 
zodiac produces the most accurate and predictable results? Since both 
methods have withstood the test of time, one need not jump to any 
hasty or fanatical conclusion that either is necessarily superior to the 
other, especially since it is certainly possible to arrive at the same end 
through radically different means. It is also possible that each system is 
geared towards delineating its own specifically desired results. And this, in 
the author's view, seems to be the case. The Hindus' "real" zodiac 
analyzes actual events and circumstances destined to occur by virtue of 
one's past actions, and the Westerners' symbolic one reveals one's 
experience of those occurrences as well as basic personality traits. 


That both zodiacs are quite workable is easily ascertained through 
practical experience in either method. Therefore, the reader should appre- 


ciate the accuracy, beauty, and profundity of both systems and simply 
make space for any paradox which may perhaps exist. Western readers 
are cautioned against making hasty judgements about the meaning of 
the fact that all planets in a tropical horoscope are backed up 23 degrees 
(approximately) to arrive at the sidereal birthchart. This apparently means 
that since a person's Sun, Moon, and ascendant may now occupy differ- 
ent signs, all character traits which have already been accurately de- 
scribed will now completely change because of sidereal delineations. Such 
is absolutely not the case, for the truth is, even though the signs in the 
sidereal zodiac are labeled with the same basic characteristics as those of 
the tropical system, there is practically no mention of personality in a 
Hindu astrological reading! Hindu predictive astrology allows one to do 
exactly what its name implies, and that is to predict! It does not in any 
serious way attempt to reveal the kind of in-depth character analysis 
Western astrology so excels in. 


At this point there is an even greater complexity which must be 
dealt with. This is the matter of the ayanamsa (pronounced aiya- 
namsha). The ayanamsa is the longitudinal difference between the two 
zodiacs—in other words, the difference between the 1st degree of the 
actual constellation Aries and the beginning of the the sign Aries as con- 
sidered in the tropical zodiac. This figure is critical, for in order to locate 
the planetary positions of the sidereal zodiac, this measurement must be 
subtracted from the longitudes given for the planets in the tropical 
ephemeris. Since it is known exactly how fast this precession of the equi- 
nox moves, the only question is at what time did the 2 zodiacs coincide 
with each other. It is known that the zodiacs are together every 26,000 
years, but there are any number of differing opinions as to when this last 
occurred. 


The determination of this event is a complicated matter and not 
within the scope of this work. Suffice it to say that most astrologers agree 
that the zodiacs were at one with each other sometime around A.D. 200- 
600. Therefore the most widely accepted measurement for the ayanamsa 
is somewhere between 19-25 degrees for the year 1950. Although several 
ayanamsas have been proposed, the Indian government has for some 
time officially sanctioned the work of N.C. Lahiri. Since this author has 
tried several various measurements and found great success with the 
traditional Lahiri findings and none with the others, it is his ayanamsa 
that is used in this book and advised for the readers. However, some dif- 
ferent ayanamsas will be given below. 


The easiest way to test the accuracy of the various ayanamsas is 
through the use of the Vimsottari dasa system of prediction given further 
on in this book. The dasa system is a means of prediction which divides 
a person's life into periods, which are each governed by a particular 
planet. These periods, or dasas, are based upon the degree of the Moon's 


position at birth, and a mere 2 or 3 degree difference can cause the start- 
ing date of a dasa to vary by as much as 4 or 5 years in certain instances. 


The ayanamsa is obviously of utmost importance, since aside from 
its effect on planetary periods, the horoscope in many cases will be dramat- 
ically altered by this crucial measurement. Therefore astrologers may want 
to draw their own conclusions as to which one to use. It is hoped that they 
will rely on experience with the results each ayanamsa produces in actual 
birthcharts, rather than theories, concepts, and findings based upon 
weather changes and atmospheric conditions, etc., as some have done. 
Unfortunately, it cannot be overstated that each person professing a 
different measurement swears vehemently about the veracity of his 
finding. Even more disconcerting is the fact that nearly all make cases for 
their ayanamsa based upon the accuracy of delineated horoscopes. 


Below are 3 of the most respected opinions for the ayanamsa on 
January 1st, 1950. In order to discern the ayanamsa for a date other than 
what has been given, simply add 48 seconds (the approximate rate at 
which the precession of equinoxes is currently moving in its 26,000-year 
cycle) for each year after 1950, or subtract the same figure for years 
preceding 1950. Or a Lahiri ephemeris can of course be purchased (refer 
to bibliography). Also, there are computer programs for Hindu astrology 
which give a choice of several different ayanamsas. 


THREE WIDELY ACCEPTED AYANAMSAS FOR JANUARY Ist, 1950 


N.C. Lahiri (government of India) 23 degrees, 9 minutes 
B.V. Raman 21 degrees, 42 minutes 
Fagan—Bradley 24 degrees, 2 minutes 


LAHIRI AYANAMSAS FOR DIFFERENT YEARS 


1900 22° 27' 59" 
January 1, 


January 1,1910 22° 35'51" 
January 1,1920 22° 44' 43" 
January 1,1930 22° 52' 40" 
January 1,1940 23° 01'21" 
January 1,1950 23° 09' 34" 
January 1,1960 23° 17'54" 
January 1,1970 23° 26'21" 
January 1,1980 23° 34'31" 


PLANETARY SYMBOLS 


SIGN SYMBOLS Aries Libra 
Taurus Scorplo 
Gemini Sagittarius 
Cancer Capricom 
Leo Aquarius 


Virgo Pisces 


PLANETARY DIRECTIONS 


Planets and signs represent certain directions and may be useful tn 
determining favorable areas for a person to reside. 


DIRECTION PLANET SIGN 


East © Vv > 
West k = My 
South rom S & 
North § V3 = 
SE. 4 0 
SW. & re 
N.E. 2 # 
NW. D) f 


BODY RULERSHIPS 


SIGN HOUSE PART OF BODY SIGN HOUSE PART OF BODY 


7th kidneys 


v Ist head Pac) 

ad 2nd face. eyes, throat M 8th genitals 
0 3rd ss arms, ears, nose / 9th thighs 
% 4th heart, chest V3 10th knees 
Q 5th stomach me 11th ankles 
mm 6th intestines. hip area K i2th feet 


Malefic or fallen planets will harm the part of the body correspond- 
ing to the sign or house placement occupied. Please note that in Hindu 
astrology the heart and stomach are not ruled by the same signs and 
houses as those in the Western system. 


THE CHAKRA THE BIRTHCHART 


South Indian North Indian 


In India there are 2 different horoscope formats, one more widely 
used in the south and one more popular in the north. The figures have no 
effect on the results of delineation and are simply a matter of tradition. In 
this book it is the south Indian method which is employed. 


Contrary to the Western birthchart, where the ascendant (i.e., 1st 
house) is fixed in the Eastern section of the map and signs rotate, in the 
Hindu chart the reverse is the case. Signs always correspond to the same 
squares, and the ascendant, which is noted by a diagonal line, is placed in 
the appropriate sign. Also at odds with the Western horoscope is the fact 
that houses are counted in a clockwise direction rather than counter- 
clockwise. Shown below is a sample horoscope with the ascendant in 
Taurus. In this chart the signs have been labeled in their appropriate 
spaces, however these symbols are ordinarily omitted, since this format 
is so easily memorized. Since the ascendant is Taurus, Aries represents 
the 12th house while Gemini indicates the 2nd. Also, it should be 
mentioned that Hindus do not use symbols for the planets but, the words 
Sun, Moon, etc. Nor do they write in the degrees but rather keep those 
figures on paper nearby. However, for delineation purposes it is easier and 
more efficient to include the degrees. Also, Western astrologers will find it 
more comfortable to use planetary symbols rather than words. 


HOUSE SYSTEMS 


It is the equal house system that is most widely used in India, but 
not exactly the same method as that known in the West. The equal house 


system known to Western astrologers is the method where the houses 
begin exactly 30 degrees apart from each other, starting with the ascend- 
ant degree. The Hindu equal house system also uses the exact 30 degree 
separations, but it is not the ascendant degree which begins the house. 


There are actually 2 different methods used, which will now be 
explained. The 1st technique, the ancient and more traditional way, con- 
siders the entire house containing the ascendant degree to be the 1st 
house. Therefore, no discrimination of degrees exists at all. For example, if 
the ascendant is 2 degrees or 28 degrees of Taurus, then any planet in 
that same sign is taken to be in the 1st house. Likewise then, a planet in 
any part of Gemini would be considered in the 2nd house, etc., etc. This 
method, though it may seem extremely unspecific and imperfect to the 
Westerner actually produces very fine results and is preferred by this 
author and recommended to the reader. 


The 2nd method called equal house system, which is currently in 
vogue (and was used by this author for the first 2 years with Hindu 
astrology), is more specific in separating houses and therefore closer to 
the Western technique. In this system the ascendant degree is considered 
the middle of the house. Thus, any planet within 15 degrees on either side 
of this point is also in the 1st house. Therefore a planet may be in a 
different sign and yet still be in the 1st house. For example, if the ascend- 
ant is 10 degrees Taurus, then any planet up to 25 degrees Taurus occu- 
pies the 1st. Also, any planet behind the 10 degree point as far back as 25 
degrees Aries is also in the 1st. With this method, once the beginning of 
the 1st house is found, the rest of the houses follow in 30 degree intervals. 
For example, if 25° Aries to 25° Taurus marks the 1st house, then 25° 
Taurus to 25° Gemini marks the 2nd, and so on. However, the lord of the 
the 1st house in this case is taken to be Venus, the ruler of Taurus, even 
though the 1st house begins at 25 degrees Aries. 

Because a more definite actual distinction exists from constellation 


to constellation (i.e., sign to sign), delineation through the ancient house 
system will produce results which are more accurate and of the essence 
than the modern technique. However, the newer technique has also lasted 
for some time because it too gives predictable effects. Therefore many 
Hindu astrologers actually use both systems but rely more heavily on the 
ancient method. It is not that they analyze the birthchart twice, but both 
techniques are kept in mind. For instance, in the horoscope above, an 
astrologer would consider Jupiter to be in the 1st house but realize that it 
might have a recognizable effect on 2nd house affairs also. Though this 
may seem confusing to the beginner, it is actually rather simple once a 
certain amount of time and experience with the system have been 
gained. In any case, it is advised that for the time being one use only the 
more traditional system. And that is the method which will be focused 
on in this book. One important word of caution, however, is necessary. 
An error in a person's birthtime of 4 minutes will move the ascendant 1 
degree. In those horoscopes where the ascendant occupies an extremely 
early or late degree, the entire horoscope will be thrown off if the 
ascendant changes signs. Therefore when analyzing such birthcharts it 
is essential to determine the correctness of the ascendant. This is 
generally_done quite easily by simply finding the most afflicted or well- 
disposed house and questioning the client about those particular 
significations. If the delineation fits, then one may proceed without 


concern. 
SETTING UP THE HOROSCOPE 


The procedure for drawing up the birthchart from scratch is com- 
plicated and unnecessary to deal with here, since it is found in so many 
basic textbooks. What is now shown is how to transpose the Western 
horoscope to the Hindu chakra. Therefore it is necessary to obtain an 
accurately drawn horoscope based on one's time and place of birth (for 
those who do not possess one, a computerized horoscope service provid- 
ing Western or Hindu birthcharts is offered at the back of this book). Any 
house system will suffice, since it is only the ascendant and planetary 
positions that are needed. All that must be done is to find the ayanamsa 
for the date of birth and subtract that measurement from the ascendant 
and all planets. The ayanarnsas are given on page 3. The horoscope of 
Richard Nixon is given below as an example. 

BIRTH DATA FOR RICHARD NIXON 
Jan. 9, 1913, 9:35 P.M., P.S.T. 
long. 117.49, lat. 33.59 


TROPICAL — Ascendant ....es cs srveeneseenen en olR ATER! 


ZODIAC SUM rece ce cecr ee ee sees eens Beene IOP 
POSITIONS MOU yt ecceeeen ta bpeeawonane cere ae 20" OH 
MAG chsaticieiasciisGeewenety wieead ad 

MOU) eee eet p epee eenettner es VF ON 

Juplier Oi" 40' 


Ceeaeeneneeeseseanrry ae NS Buea 


VETS pica eee me trend beew atti nnese }¢ 03° 29° 


SRIPLIGTU SE V5 Seis Sewer eee eles eee 


wae 27S! 


Rabu (N. model. -.--sceseeseser re cen s ADT" (5° 
KetudS. modeh occ ee rece ee este a nes eto ns OF 15’ 


The easiest way to proceed with the necessary calculations is to first 
reduce the sign degrees of each item to its proper degree within the 360 


degree zodiac. Therefore the following table may be helpful. 


Aries 


Taurus 
Gemini 
Cancer 
Leo 

Virgo 
Libra 
Scorpio 
Sagittarius 
Capricorn 
Aquarius 
Pisces 


Q°-29° 59" 


30°-59° 59° 
60°-89° 99' 
90°-119° 59" 
120°-149° 59' 
150°-179° 59" 
180°-209° 59' 
210°-239° 59’ 
240°-269° 59’ 
2:70°-299° 59' 
300°-329° 59' 
330°-360° 


The ayanamsa for this birthdate is 22 degrees 38 minutes. This 
measurement must be subtracted from the tropical zodiac positions to 


arrive at the sidereal figures. 


The Sun-19°V324' = 289° 24' minus 22° 38' 


EXAMPLES 
26° 1 46’. 


The Moon-20°=08' = 320° 08' minus 22° 38' = 297° 30' = 27°V330'. 


Rahu (north node)-07° V.15' (add 360 since 22° 38' cannot be subtracted 
from 07° 15') = 367° 15' minus 22° 38' = 344° 37' = 14° ).( 37". 


RICHARD NIXON TROPICAL ZODIAC 
1611 15' (Western) 


18°% 48’ 13°50" 


19°83’ 13° 44 


24" 17° 


13°44’ 


18° V3 48’ 


16° / 15' 


H v ? 
$3 14937' bp 04°50" 


MI 
x 


B gr a] | fe teor 
ai a 


SIDEREAL ZODIAC (Hindu). 


THE NAVAMSA—THE ONE-NINTH DIVISION 
(MARRIAGE CHART) 


In Hindu astrology the horoscope may be broken down into several 
vargas, or divisions. Although as many as 16 basic divisional charts exist, 
most astrologers only concern themselves with the navamsa (pronounced 
navamsha) or 1 /9 division. Each varga chart relates to a certain house, 
and this one corresponds to the 7th, the house of marriage. However, 
because the 7th is the opposite of the 1st, which is the most personal 
part of a horoscope, it has to do with a person's relationship to society 
and all its functions. Therefore the navamsa is of great importance, and no 
professional Hindu astrologer will attempt to analyze a birthchart without 
it. 


Although astrologers consult the navamsa for specific details of 
matried life, the chart is mainly used for its impact on a person's life in 
general, for this chart carries a good deal of power to affect the actual 
birthchart. For example, if 4 or 5 planets in the navamsa are exalted, or 
in their own signs, the original horoscope is tremendously strengthened 
in a recognizable way. Naturally, if many planets are fallen in this div- 
isional chart, the opposite results would occur. Also, nearly all Hindu 
scriptures are emphatic about the fact that if a planet is exalted in the 
birthchart but fallen in the navamsa, then the particular effects of that 
planet will be extremely mixed, and in that planet's dasa (planetary 
period—discussed on page 217) some amount of misery must be reaped. It 
should also be mentioned that the Hindu scriptures are replete with 
planetary combinations and formulas involving this varga. One such 
basic and easily noted condition is what is known as vargothamamsa, or 
vargottama. This occurs when a planet in the navamsa occupies the 
same sign as its horoscope placement. This is a beneficial situation, and 
Hindu scriptures state that the planet will give results similar to those 
given when posited in its own sign. A planet in its fallen sign, being var- 
gottama, is of course only worse off. 


One must bear in mind, however, that the navamsa is not an 
actual horoscope but a calculated one based upon the original. Therefore 
aspects and conjunctions in this chart should never be used, despite the 
fact that some astrologers attempt to do so. Also, planets are posited in 
signs in the navamsa, but there are no degrees for them. 


The navamsa is essentially used to color the actual horoscope. 
There is no question that specific results can be delineated from the 


with the natal horoscope. For example, if Jupiter is fallen in the 10th 
house of the navamsa, one may expect disturbances in the person's 
career. However, the intensity of difficulties will depend upon the condi- 
tion of the 10th house of the actual birthchart. 


There is one consideration, especially for Westerners, which must 
be taken quite seriously. And that is that when a 30 degree sign is divided 
into 9 parts, each one is only 3 degrees 20 minutes. Therefore since 1 
degree equals 4 minutes of arc, an error of 13 minutes in the birthtime 
throws this chart completely off. In many cases a mere 4 or 5 minute 
discrepancy will give a wrong ascendant for the navamsa. Thus, it is 
inappropriate to use the houses in the navamsa unless one is certain the 
birthtime is exact, or unless events proving the accuracy of the divisional 
chart have been witnessed. But although the houses may be inaccurate 
due to an improper birthtime, the planets in signs will not be affected. 
Therefore even if one is not positive the birthtime is exact, there is still 
great value in knowing what signs the planets occupy in the navamsa. 


SETTING UP THE NAVAMSA 


First, 30 degrees are divided into 9 parts. These numbers can easily 
be memorized in time. 


DEGREES 


0° 00'-3° 20' gets 1 navamsa 
3° 20'-6° 40' gets 2 nauamsas 
6° 40'-10° 00" gets 3 navamsas 
10° 00'-13° 20' gets 4 navamsas 
13° 20'-16° 40' gets 5 navamsas 
16° 40'-20° 00' gets 6 nauamsas 
20° 00'-23° 20° gets 7 navamsas 
23° 20'-26° 40' gets 8 navamsas 
26° 40'-30° 00' gets 9 navamsas 


Using Richard Nixon's planetary positions, the number of parts to be 
used will be determined. 


SIDEREAL (HINDU) ZODIAC POSITIONS 


Recendant Ql 24°46 count 8 navamsas 
Sun Jf 26°46 count 9 navamsas 
Moon V3 27°29 count 9 navamsas 
Mars # O7°G7' count 3 nauamsas 
Mercury # 07°23’ count 3 navamsas 
Jupiter 4 ase O3' count 3 navamsas 
Venus = 10°51' count 4 natramsns 
Saturn & o4°50' count 2 navamsas 
Rahu }€ 14°37' count 4 navamsas 
Ketu MP 14*37' count 4 navamsas 


The next step is to note the element of the sign each planet occupies. 
» Navamsas of planets in fire signs (VP, ,f) are counted from Aries. 
S%. Navamsas of planets in earth signs (Virtvg ) are counted from Capricorn. 


Y Navamsas of planets in air signs (II, ) are counted from Libra. 
» Navamsas of planets in water signs ( SS, IV),, ) are counted from Cancer. 


For example, Venus, which occupies an air sign, gets 4 navamsas 
which are counted from Libra. Therefore Venus is placed in Capricorn, 
the 4th house from Libra. 


NAVAMSA CHART FOR RICHARD NIXON 


RAVI—THE SUN 


The Sun, because of its intense heat, is a malefic planet in Hindu 
astrology. It does not destroy its associations quite as badly as Mars and 
Saturn, but it is essentially a harmful influence. Also because of its heat, 
any planet that is posited within 8 degrees of the Sun is burnt up or 
absorbed by its rays. This condition is called combustion, and it effec- 
tively spoils the conjoined planet and whatever houses it rules. Regarding 
the 8 degree orb assigned to combustion, individual astrologers may wish 
to determine their own orb of influence, but in any case, combustion 
must never be ignored. 


While the Sun is considered the most significant factor in Western 
astrology, such is not the case in the Hindu system. The assigned signifi- 
cations for the Sun are basically the same in Hindu astrology, but the 
Moon takes top priority since it, more than anything else, is responsible 
for the overall happiness and general well-being of a person. The Sun, 
however, is very important since it governs a person's confidence, author- 
ity, power, and status. It also rules the father and has a great deal to do 
with career and the person's worldly activities. 


The Sun rules the soul and is therefore called the atmakaraka, or 
soul indicator. As such, the conditions and surroundings of the Sun will 
reveal tendencies and affinities which are extremely fundamental to the 
person. It should be mentioned that there are often references made to the 
atmakaraka in the Hindu scriptures. But it must be determined which 
one is being referred to, since there are two. The planet in the latest degree 
in a horoscope (i.e., a planet in 28-29 degrees) is also an atmakaraka. 


The negative effects of the Sun are somewhat easily altered when 
the Sun is aspected by a benefic. Therefore, when aspected by Venus, Jup- 
iter, or the Moon, the Sun will produce rather beneficial results. Also, as 
all planets have certain house placements where their energy is more 
compatible, so it is that the Sun produces excellent results in the 
upachaya, or growing houses (3rd, 6th, 10th, and Ilth), where malefics are 
welcomed. The best placement for the Sun is the 10th house, where it 
receives dik bala, or directional strength. It also functions at its optimum in 
Aries, its exalted, or uchcha, sign. It is weakest in Libra, its fallen, or 
neecha sign. And it gives very good results in Leo, its swakshetra, or own 
house. 


oned, it is hot, dry, and malefic. Another name of the Sun is Surya. The 
friends who welcome the Sun in their houses are the Moon, Mars, and 
Jupiter. Venus and Saturn are enemies, while Mercury is neutral to the 
Sun. The gem to wear to strengthen an afflicted Sun is a red ruby. The 
metals gold and copper are also of benefit to a weak Sun. 


S father 

S the soul, ego 

S power, ambition 

S vitality, dignity, self-reliance 

S authority or rulership position 
S government 

S vocation 

S professional status, position, popularity 
S physicians, chemists, druggists 
S the eyes, vision 

S the heart 

S copper, gold 

S eastern direction 

S Sunday 


> red ruby 
3 the color gold 


INDICATIONS OF THE SUN 


CHANDRA—THE MOON 


The Moon is the single most important influence in Hindu astrol- 
ogy. In significance it is equal to or greater than the ascendant. If one 
understands the reasoning behind the great emphasis on the Moon, then 
the gist of this system can be gotten, for the Moon rules peace of mind, 
comforts, and the general well being and fortune of a person. Unlike West- 
ern astrology where the Sun is the most vital concern, the focus in this 
system is not on a person's deeply ingrained tendencies and affinities, his 
will power, authority, and ability. It is rather on the benefits he reaps, i.e., 
his comforts, ease of life, affluence, fame, etc. This is the crux of Hindu 
astrology. Therefore if the Moon is weak or afflicted, success becomes 
rather difficult to achieve and happiness and a comfortable life on earth 
may never be known to the person. 


In terms of rulerships, the Moon governs, among other things, the 
mother, females, the emotional life, and the public. It also rules growth 
and, perhaps for this reason, has much to do with the health during 
childhood. Persons with an afflicted Moon are generally weak or sickly in 
their early years. The Moon also rules the mind, but more in the way of 
common sense and peace of mind vs. intellect. And memory is a function 
of the Moon. Perhaps the most important point to remember is that the 
Moon contributes more to the overall tenor of the horoscope than any 
other factor except possibly the ascendant. 


It cannot be overemphasized that the Moon's house position must 
never be ignored or underestimated. The significations of that particular 
house are natural, comfortable, and vital facets of the life. The 
placement of the Moon is thus one of the most consistent indicators of 
where a person will play out his karma, and it is often rather helpful 
when trying to determine what profession a person may choose. 


Because the Moon is such an essential factor, the next step after 
analyzing the horoscope in the traditional way is to review the chart, 
ignoring the ascendant and considering the Moon's position as the 1st 
house. This is known as Chandra lagna (literally Moon ascendant) and is 
not in fact a separate procedure but something Hindu astrologers keep in 
mind while delineating the horoscope. This technique is not perhaps so 
definite in its revelations but will give added weight or shading to what 
the actual horoscope indicates. 


Another Hindu delineation indicative of the significance of this 
luminary is the effect of surrounding planets on the Moon. It is highly 
desirable, in fact necessary, that the Moon not be isolated in the horo- 
scope. There should be planets either conjunct or in the house 
preceding or following the Moon, or both. It is of course better that these 
planets not be malefics, although even those are better than no planets at 
all. Otherwise, if the Moon is segregated, there will be disturbance of mind 
and less good fortune, and the ability to reap fame or recognition in life is 
matred. 


Aside from the fact that the Moon takes precedence over the Sun, 
there is another major difference between Hindu and Western astrology 
concerning the Moon. And that is that it is crucial to determine whether 
the Moon was waxing or waning at birth. This is because the waxing 
Moon is considered a benefic, while the waning Moon is malefic. However, 
there is a subtlety to this matter in that a Moon that is waxing or getting 
brighter may have just passed its new Moon and therefore still be quite 
dim. Likewise, a waning Moon that is on its way to darkness may have 
just finished its full Moon point and still be extremely bright. So discre- 
tion must be used in this matter. But the two points which must be 
remembered are that there is a very real qualitative difference between a 
waxing Moon and a waning Moon, the latter being malefic and the former 
benefic, and that the brighter the Moon, the more powerful is its effect, 
while the more dim it is, the weaker. It must also be realized that a bright 
Moon in its house placement and aspects gives effects on a par with Jup- 
iter in its intensity. Therefore, the full Moon, which in Western astrology 
is an extremely difficult influence (known as the Sun opposite Moon 
aspect), in Hindu astrology is one of the most favorable and auspicious of 
all astrological conditions. 


To distinguish if the Moon is waxing or waning at birth is an easy 
matter. Since the Moon travels faster than the Sun, simply note in the 
horoscope whether the Moon is moving towards its opposition point from 
the Sun. If so, then it is waxing, or getting brighter. If it has reached its 
opposition with the Sun and is moving towards the conjunction, then 
it is waning, or getting darker. 


The Moon is cold, moist, and feminine. It is best placed in Taurus, 
where it is exalted, and most poorly placed in Scorpio, its fallen sign. The 
Moon rules Cancer and gives very good results in that sign. It receives dik 
bala, or directional strength, in the 4th house, where it gives excellent 
results. The friends who welcome the Moon in their houses are the Sun 
and Mercury. The rest of the planets are neutral to the Moon. There are 
no enemies. Another name for the Moon is Soma. Pearls or silver may be 


INDICATIONS OF THE MOON 


S mother 

S females 

S the mind, common sense, memory 

S the public, mass consciousness 

S emotions 

S% general well-being (affluence, fortune, recognition & fame) 
S fluctuations, moodiness, instability 

S beauty, romance, sensitivity, femininity 
S milk, grains, liquids 

S% growth (health in childhood), fertility 

S cooks, nurses, caterers 

S eyesight 

S breasts, brain 

S pearls 

S the metal silver 

S northwestern direction 


S Monday 
5 menstrual cycle 


KUJA—MARS 


In Hindu astrology, Mars is a first-class malefic capable of harming 
any or all of its associations. It destroys by way of aggression, violence, 
impulsiveness, accidents, and insensitivity. It also, however, gives energy, 
drive, determination, and the ability to put one's personal desires above 
those of others. If Mars is weak or afflicted in a horoscope, the person will 
lack ambition and motivation, while success remains elusive. 


Mars also rules courage and bravery and all military functions. 
Therefore, generals and commanders, as well as anyone who has the 
desire to rule or lead others, have a strong or significantly placed Mars. 
This is also the planet of passions and desires, and has much to do with 
sexual activity. Another function of Mars is that of mechanical or techni- 
cal ability. As such it creates surgeons, engineers, mechanics, and those 
who excel in the use of their hands. 


The main difference regarding Mars between Hindu and Western 
astrology is that in the Hindu system Mars is the indicator of brothers 
and sisters (except for the eldest) and landed property. That aside, the 
only point worth reiterating is that in this event-oriented system of 
astrology, a malefic such as Mars causes troubles, disputes, and miseries 
unless it is posited in one of the 4 upachaya, or growing, houses (the 3rd, 
6th, 10th, or 11th), where malefics produce good effects. 


Mars is masculine, dry, and fiery. It is best placed in the 10th 
house, where it receives dik Bala, or directional strength. It operates 
best in Capricorn, its exalted sign, and worst in Cancer, its fallen 
placement. It also functions well in Aries and Scorpio, the signs it rules. 
The gem to wear to strengthen a weak or afflicted Mars is red coral. The 
friends who welcome Mars in their houses are the Sun, Moon, and 
Jupiter. Mercury is its enemy, while Venus and Saturn are neutral in 
friendship. The scriptures relate that Mars represents the 5 senses. 
Another common name for Mars is Mangal. 


INDICATIONS OF MARS 


S$, brothers and sisters (except the eldest) 
¥ courage, bravery, heroic deeds 

S sports 

S property 


S mechanical or technical ability 
5, builders, designers, engineers, surgeons, mechanics 


S the military, soldiers, policemen, war 
S generals, commanders, rulers 
S accidents, violence, fires 

S cuts, burns, bruises 

S ambition, motivation, desires 
S physical strength, forcefulness 
S temper, arguments, fights 

S weapons, guns, explosives 

% energy, aggressiveness 

S passions, sex 

S medical operations 


the blood, muscular system, bone marrow 
Tuesday 


S southern direction 
S red coral 


BUDDHA—MERCURY 


Mercury is the planet of intellectual and communicative matters. 
By itself, it is a purely benefic influence which energizes its associations 
and produces positive results. However, because it is a neutral, sexless, 
and adaptable planet, it takes on the nature and quality of any planet it is 
conjunct with or aspected by. Therefore it is crucial to thoroughly analyze 
its condition before interpreting its effects in_a house. It must _also_be 
understood | though, that if Mercury being conjunct with a malefic such as 
Mars, is thus spoiled and itself becomes malefic, then Mars will have 
received a very beneficial energy and become powerfully enhanced. The 
house, however, must be delineated as being occupied by 2 malefics! 


Mercury governs intelligence, speech, education, and all mental 
pursuits. . It is responsible for creating writers, lecturers, and teachers. _ It 
also ru rules trade and commerce and will be prominent in the lives of busi+ 
ness people. Other matters dependent upon the condition of Mercury are 
the nervous system and confidence. Therefore, when badly placed or 
afflicted, Mercury indicates _a person who is nervous, overly_excitable, con: 


ceited, and insecure! 


Another point worth mentioning is that Mercury may, without 
malicious intent, cause harm in certain houses due to its superficial 
nature. It has been labeled by the Hindu sages as being fickle, two-faced, 
dnd‘ofien Gendaciwe to detachment and anevery independent nature” 


There is little difference in the treatment of this planet between 
Hindu and Western astrology except that the Hindus consider Mercury to 
be exalted in the first 15 degrees of Virgo rather than the sign 
Aquarius. It is also important to note that 1at Mercury is not the only planet 
to govern the mind, since this assignment is shared with the, Moon! 


which rules memory_and the common-sense aspect of the intellect! 


Mercury is sexless, neutral, cold, and moist. It is best placed in the 
1st house where it receives dik bala, or directional strength. It functions 
best in the first half of Virgo, where it is exalted, and worst in Pisces, its 
fallen sign. It owns Gemini and Virgo and produces very good results in 
either sign. Mercury is a very youthful planet and gives such an appear’ 
ance when it associates with a planet or house connected in some ,way,to 
the physical body_(i.e., the_1st house_or_its ruler). The gem to wear to 
strengthen an afflicted Mercury is green emerald. The friends of Mercury 


are the Sun and Venus, in whose signs Mercury is welcomed. The Moon is 
an enemy to Mercury, while Mars, Jupiter, and Saturn are neutral to it. 


INDICATIONS OF MERCURY 


S intelligence 
S education, learning, teaching 
S speech, poetry 
S confidence 
S communication 
S writing, drawing 
books, papers, publishing 
conscious mind, intellect, analytical ability 
S commerce, trade, business 
S humor, wit 
‘astrology, math 
‘SY nervous system, lungs, intestines 
' nerve disorders, brain diseases, epilepsy 
S short journeys 
S% writers, astrologers, secretaries, scholars, etc. 
S northern direction 


Wednesday 
green emerald 


MMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMm™ 


money, wealth, prosperity 
luck, fortune, opportunity 
religion, philosophy 

children 

long distance travel 

faith, devotion, spirituality 
wisdom, truthfulness, morality 
charity, benevolence, compassion 
foreigners, foreign affairs 
meditation 

astrology 

law, legal affairs 

liver, allergies, thighs 
optimism 

speculation, gambling 
solutions to problems 

one's guru or religious teachers 
past life credit 

Thursday 

northeastern direction 

yellow sapphire, yellow topaz 


INDICATIONS OF JUPITER 


bankers, lawyers, judges, ministers, gurus, religious leaders 


SUKRA—VENUS 


Venus is the planet of love. It is a benefit and enhances the house it 
occupies, as well as any planet it aspects or associates with. Like 
Jupiter it bestows money, comforts, and fortune on a person when it is 
strong and significantly placed. Apart from the fact that it governs such 
crucial matters as love affairs and married life, it also specifically rules 
happiness. Therefore, almost no other astrological condition can spoil 
the sweetness of life like an afflicted Venus. It is also a planet of beauty, 
sensuality, and passion, and anyone with a well-placed Venus is likely to 
be sensitive, beautiful, magnetic, and attractive to the opposite sex. The 
person would also be artistic or appreciative of beauty, since Venus is the 
planet of aesthetic appreciation. 


Venus also rules the reproductive system, and when ill-placed or 
afflicted by malefics it often causes venereal diseases, sexual disorders, or 
reproductive ailments. It is also noted that when Venus is in Virgo, its 
fallen sign, an overindulgence in sex or sensual pleasures often results. 


There is almost no major difference in the consideration of Venus 
between East and West except that the Hindus use Venus to delineate the 
extent of one's comforts, luxuries, conveyances, and happiness. However, 
the great importance of this planet lies in its rulership of love affairs, the 
spouse, and marriage. It may also be mentioned that when Venus is in an 
angular house (1st, 4th, 7th, or 10th), it produces a person who is 
extremely kind and forgiving. 


Venus is feminine and watery and is best placed in the 4th house, 
where it receives dik bola, or directional strength. It also operates best in 
Pisces, its exaltation sign, and worst in Virgo, where it is fallen. It owns 
Taurus and Libra and of course gives very good results in those signs. 
The gem to strengthen an afflicted Venus is a diamond. The metal silver 
is also of benefit to a weak Venus. The friends of Venus are Mercury and 
Saturn. Its enemies are the Sun and Moon, and it is not welcomed in 
their signs. Mars and Jupiter are neutral to Venus. 


INDICATIONS OF VENUS 


S marriage, love matters, romance 
S comforts, luxuries, jewelry 
S wealth, prosperity 


S happiness 

S beauty 

3; vehicles, conveyances 

S sensuality, passion, sexual pleasure 

S art, dance, music, drama 

S% actors, artists, musicians, etc. 

S reproductive system, semen 

S venereal diseases, ailments of ovaries or uterus 
S mantras, medicine 

S hypnotism, mesmerism, casting of spells 
S southeastern direction 

S Friday 

S the metal silver 

S diamonds 


In the event-oriented Hindu astrology, Saturn is generally the most 
dreaded of all the planets. It is the epitome of malevolence and harms the 
house it occupies and any houses it aspects. It also spoils any planets it 
conjoins or aspects. Saturn's associations are destroyed in a rather "kar- 
mic," or fateful, way, meaning that there is little a person can do about 
whatever signification has been ruined. In short, this planet victimizes a 
person unless it is placed in a house that can utilize a malefic, and even 
then there is likely to be some evidence of injury. 


Although Saturn's very nature is to restrict, deny, and_destroy, it 
also, as one of the two outer planets in Hindu astrology, is capable ‘of 
bestowing the greatest evolutionary qualities a person may possess. A 
well- -aspected and well-placed Saturn indicates a person of wisdom, integ* 
rity, and discipline. It is especially helpful to those persons on the spiri- 
tual path who are diligently seeking perfection, for Saturn gives humility, 
patience, dedication, and the most genuine sense of non-attachment to 
worldly desires and pleasures. It is a spiritual influence par excellence. It 
is noted that nearly all those involved in serious new-age practices, reli 
gions, and Piilesop ries have Saturn aspecting the Sun, ascendant, or 
ascendant ruler! 


Another fine attribute of Saturn is its power to give leadership abil- 
ity: In the ancient Hindu scriptures, this is the planet most cited as mak- 
ing a person "leader of his village". This may be related to the fact that the 
wisdom indicated by Saturn has been gained by experience rather than 
by. philosophy _or intelligence! as as is the case with Jupiter, the other er_spiri- 
tual planet. In any case, Saturn is is the p planet of authority, and it bestows 
the the ability to govern and and lead others! 


Apart from the fact that Saturn's effects in the Hindu system are 
considered more blatantly malefic, there is little difference in the 
meaning of the planet from Western astrology. There is, however, one 
major signification which should be noted, and that is the matter of 
longevity, whose rulership is asst assigned to Saturn. A powerful and well* 
aspected § Saturn “indicates _a lon; a long | life, although this must be balanced 
with an analysis of the 8th house, which also rules the same. In Hindu 
writings the term ayush karaka is used to denote the indicator of 
longevity, and it is understood that the reference is to Saturn. 


Saturn is cold, dry, earthy, and masculine. It is known to be 
tamasic, or lethargic < and destructive. It is an old or elderly planet, and 
when significantly placed” so as to aspect or associate with ~ the 
ascendant or ascendant ruler, it will give an aged appearance early in 
life. Saturn receives dik bala, or directional strength, in the 7th house! 
where it becomes quite powerful and its significations are strengthened: 
However, it should be noted that for some reason this is the one case 
where a planet 1 m its dik bala position causes great destruction to the 
house. it occupies! Regarding sign placements, Saturn functions best in 
Libra, where it is exalted, and worst in Aries, its fallen sign. It rules 
Capricorn and Aquarius, where it also gives very good results. The friends 
of Saturn who welcome its presence in their houses are Mercury and 
Venus. The Sun, Moon, and Mars are its enemies, while Jupiter is 
neutral. It should be mentioned, though, that it is commonly stated in 
the scriptural writings that this planet gives excellent results in 
Sagittarius and Pisces (the signs ruled by Jupiter). This is so even though 
in the technical friendship scheme Jupiter is simply a neutral to Saturn. 
The gem a person may wear to strengthen an afflicted Saturn is a blue 
sapphire. 


INDICATIONS OF SATURN 
longevity, death 
misery, adversity, sorrows 
restriction, denial, delays 
discipline, responsibility 
accidents, chronic diseases 
authority figures, elders 
leadership, ambition, wisdom born of experience 
humility, honesty, sincerity 
Spirituality, non-attachment, asceticism 
perfection, highest human qualities 
organization, form, structure 
thieves, theft 
paralysis, asthma, rheumatism 
“W teeth, bones 
construction work, carpentry, tedious work, mining, bricklaying 
wood, coal, steel, iron 
real estate dealers 
ascetics, monks, hermits 
Saturday 


blue sapphire, blue and black gemstones 
Lord Shiva, Shaivites (disciples of Lord Shiva) 


MIMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMmM 


RAHU & KETU—THE NORTH AND SOUTH NODES 


§8U 


Rahu and Ketu are two malefic influences which are not in fact 
planets but calculated points in the sky. Because they generate recogniz- 
able effects in a horoscope, they have been labled "shadowy planets" by the 
ancient Hindu sages. The best way to understand Rahu and Ketu is to 
consider the Hindu mythological story about their existence. It seems that 
Lord Vishnu was distributing amrita, a potion granting immortality, to 
the Devas (Gods) and planetary beings. After the nectar was finished, the 
Sun and Moon discovered that a rakshasa, or demon, had managed to 
enter the room and gulp down the potion. After the serpentlike demon was 
exposed by the luminaries, Lord Vishnu grabbed his sword and severed 
the demon in two. However, having already gained immortality, this being 
did not die but instead became two creatures. The top half of the rak- 
shasa was named Rahu, and the bottom portion, Ketu. And ever since 
that time the nodes have been bitter enemies of the luminaries. It is said 
that for this reason the nodes regularly attempt to swallow up the Sun and 
Moon (this occurs during every eclipse, when either luminary is conjunct 
with Rahu or Ketu). However, the luminaries of course always escape, as 
they also are immortal. 


To truly understand the effects of the nodes, one should always 
keep in mind the above story, for Rahu and Ketu indeed behave like two 
parts of a demon. Such a being may be thought of as an animalistic or 
instinctual creature with no directed intelligence, bent on achieving all the 
pleasurable_stimulation it can possibly grasp. This is an especially good 
image for Rahu, whose absolute essence is that of insatiable. worldly 
desire. A purely_hedonistic, unconscious, and insensitive_being is this 
Character. ‘And if Rahu can be described as such, what can possibly be 
said of Ketu, the portion of the serpent without a brain! With ‘no special 
effort, Ketu can an. produce _ some_of_the_most_intense, compulsive, _and 
‘unconscious behavior: 


However, the kinds of effects Rahu and Ketu may cause depend even 
more than with other planets, on the other astrological specifics involved. 
For although Rahu and Ketu are considered planets in Hindu astrology 
and give relatively predictable results, they behave differently than the 
other heavenly bodies. Because they are elemental and instinctual forces, 
they are more like masses of energy than directed forces. Nor do they have 
the ability to cast aspects as other planets do. And although Rahu and 
Ketu are certainly malefics, it is often harder to know the exact injury 
they indicate in a horoscope. Suffice ice it to say that the nodes are generally 


better placed in houses which can utilize malefic planets (the 3rd, 6th! 
‘10th, & 11 th), and that more havoc is created if Rahu_or Ketu occupy,the 
houses of enemies, or if they are aspected by malefics! 


Regarding the significations of the nodes, there is little discernable 
difference in what is listed in the ancient scriptures between the two. 
Both are responsible for all sorts of evils, such as incurable diseases) 
murder, theft, poison, snakes, fears, phobias, ‘Nindidenosable dilaceses! 
imprisonment, and on and on and on! But certain intelligent distinctions 
are made, especially concerning the more positive attributes. For 
instance, it is only natural that if ‘Raku: indicates worldly desires, it is 


pape ant ee cy og eer —~ 


beneficially placed. However: it should not be forsatied that the desires of 
Rahu are insatiable, and therefore satisfaction may not necessarily result 
from the attainment of these benefits. It may also be mentioned that the 
scriptures declare that whatever is given in the 18-year Rahu dasa 
pened) _is_usually_taken_away_in the last _few_years_before_that, period 
ends! 


As for the traits of Ketu, this planet is called moksha karaka, or 
indicator of enlightenment. And indeed it_does give very fine ne_spiritual 
tendencies, _especially qua qualities of asceticism and non-attachment. It" is 
therefore rather common to find a prominently positioned Ketu in the 
horoscope of a dedicated spiritual seeker. Also, in a similar vein, Ketu is 
known as Gnana karaka. Gnana is a term meaning knowledge, wisdom! 
or discrimination, which in India is taken to be a specific path to enlight! 
enment. Therefore, along with the spiritual tendencies created, this planet 
confers great discriminative powers, even to the extent of psychic : ability! 


Although the sages assert that Rahu's effects are similar to Saturn's 
and Ketu's like that of Mars, this is true only in a general sense. For Ketu) 
when 1en inauspiciously p placed can mia 3 significations oe a annncomasal 
awful and devious way. Whereas Rahu disturbs by way of lethargy, gross, 
ness and ise Stvaly,; it does so in a manner that is much less intense 
and purposeful! 


ce eee eee ee, 


The most detrimental effects of the nodes occur when either one is 
— 
closely conjunct with another planet. In such cases, the conjoined planet 
is terribly spoiled, as are the houses it rules. If Rahu is the node 
involved, it harms mainly by dulling or suppressing the energy of the 
other influence so that it is powerless to function in its normal way. On 
the other hand, a planet conjunct with Ketu seems to be dissolved or 
swallowed up into an abyss or kind of black hole. Then, rather than 
simply having its potency clipped, that planet behaves in a weird, compul+ 
sive, and unconscious or uncontrollable . way! 


When delineating the nodes, it_ cannot be overemphasized that one 


should bear in mind the lack and abandonment of logic, reasoning ability! 


and intelligence that characterize Rahu and Ketu. They are animalistic, i 
Obsessive, and compulsive influences and indicate areas of life where a 
person simply has very little control! 


Rahu and Ketu are not characterized as masculine or feminine. 
And there is almost no agreement by the Hindu sages al about their benefi- 
cial or detrimental sign placements. The only certainty is that 1at the nodes 
are are both exalted in either of Mercury's signs, Gemini and Virgo. This i is 
logical because Rahu and Ketu, which are devoid of any mental qualities! 
must benefit by the intelligence and stimulation of the Mercury energy. It 
should also be mentioned that Rahu and Ketu normally move backwards 
but occasionally stop and travel forward for brief periods. It is noted that 
the nodes become extremely powerful during these times. Therefore, when- 
ever analyzing a horoscope, the ephemeris should be consulted to deter- 
mine whether these planets were stationary direct or traveling in forward 
motion. If so, then they may be considered highly positive and energizing 
forces giving similar results to that of their exaltation positions. Since no 
fallen placements are given for Rahu and Ketu, it may be remembered 
that the nodes are great enemies of the Sun_and Moon and may, give 
worse _ than usual results 1 in their signs! Al Although Ketu is is not included in 
the friendship scheme, ‘most astrologers ta take the enemies of Rahu to also 
be inimical to Ketu. Also, any aspects malefic to the nodes will act as 
afflictions _and cause them to produce even more tlisturbance than nor: 
mal! The gem to strengthen a weak or afflicted Rahu is Gomed or hesson- 
ite, while Ketu governs Cat's eye or chrysobery]l. 


INDICATIONS OF RAHU 


> insatiable worldly desires, great worldly benefits 
> ‘inertia, dullness, laziness 

sense” “gratification 

S ignorance 

3%; gomed or hessonite (honey colored form of agate) 


INDICATIONS OF KETU 


') “asceticism, non-attachment to_ worldly desires 
py ee methods, healing diets; etc) 


: psychic ability 

"gnana (wisdom; knowledge; discrimination) 

'S ‘tendency_to go unnoticed or_be invisible to others 

'S ghosts, spirits; astral forces 

>, cat's eye or chrysoberyl (not to be confused with tiger eye) 


INDICATIONS OF BOTH RAHU AND KETU 


Soccultism & spirituality 
‘compulsive & unconscious behavior 
fears, phobias, nightmares 
‘Smental derangement 

associations with low-class people 
addictions, bad habits 

Spoisons 

Sillusion, deception 
dirty filth; parasites 

stuttering, spasms 
Sundiagnosable and incurable ailments! 
theft; murder, imprisonment 
Switchcraft, magic 

Sulcers, cancer, skin diseases 


BHAVAS—THE HOROSCOPE HOUSES 


INDIAN PHILOSOPHY DIVIDES LIFE INTO 4 CATEGORIES: 
1. DHARMA—life purpose or righteous action 
2. ARTHA—wealth matters 
3. KAMA—desires 
4. MOKSHA—enlightenment, self-realization, final liberation 


‘Houses 1, 5, & 9 correspond to fire signs and are therefore dharma 
houses. 

SHouses 2, 6, & 10 correspond to earth signs and are therefore artha 
houses. 

SHouses 3, 7, & 11 correspond to air signs and are therfore kama houses. 

‘Houses 4, 8, & 12 correspond to water signs and are therefore moksha 
houses. 


FIRST HOUSE IS A DHARMA HOUSE, CONNECTED TO LIFE PURPOSE. 
Sthe personal self, ego 

appearance, face; head 

character, disposition, tendencies, conduct 

S well-being; happiness 

health; longevity 

strength, will power 

Sdignity, self-esteem, self-love, confidence 

Sfame, ability,to be recognized, general prosperity 

birth, early, childhood, start in life 


SECOND HOUSE IS AN ARTHA HOUSE, CONNECTED TO WEALTH 
MATTERS. 

Smoney, wealth, finances 

‘knowledge, education, educators 

‘speech, use of foul language, speech defects 

Sorators, poets 

Simagination 

‘truthfulness, tendency to lie 

Sfamily life} domestic happiness 

Sface, mouth, tongue 

Svision in right eye, neck, throat 

confidence, timidity 


S food one eats 
> charity 


>) » dress 


THIRD HOUSE IS A KAMA HOUSE, CONNECTED TO DESIRES. 
Sone's own efforts and adventures 
Syounger brothers and sisters 
¥ WF all desires 
Slife, energy, excitement, enthusiasm 
> initiative, motivation 
Scourage, bravery, fear 
+ VW voice singing 
fine arts, music, dance, drama 
‘musicians, actors, dancers, singers 


‘theatrical directors and producers 
Smanagers, organizers, detail work 

> Wr hearing; the right ear 

‘the hands, arms, shoulders 

letters; writings, journals, all communications 


ef ee ee a loge Ng ee eye 


> Travel—short journeys 


FOURTH HOUSE IS A MOKS HA HOUSE, CONNECTED TO FINAL 
LIBERATION. 

Smother 

Shappiness and contentment 

Sthe heart, emotions and passions 

Sfixed assets, land, buildings, real estate 

>) comforts, luxuries 

Scars, boats, planes, conveyances 

Sacademic degree, education (to an extent) 

Sendings; the close of life 


Sfarms, graves 


FIFTH HOUSE IS A DHARMA HOUSE CONNECTED TO LIFE PURPOSE. 
Schildren 
SS the mind; intelligence 
\'poorvapunya (rewards or_credit due from last incarnation) 
S SP sense of destiny 
‘speculation, gambling, investments 
Slove affairs, romance, love from spouse 
‘kingship, government, rulers, politicians 


Smorals, good deeds; charity 
‘merit, fine qualities, integrity, humility, ability 
religious-mindedness 


‘S pleasures, fun; sports 
Sart of painting or drawing 


SIXTH HOUSE IS AN ARTHA HOUSE, CONNECTED TO WEALTH MATTERS. 
health, illness, disease 

Senemies, competitors (seen and unseen); foes; jealous people 

daily job, service 

Sdetail jobs; service jobs 

appetite 

Ssubordinates, tenants, maids, employees 


Ymaternal uncle 
Smedical profession, nursing, doctors 


‘Scousins 
Slitigations, tendency,to_be charged in court cases 


SEVENTH HOUSE IS A KAMA HOUSE, CONNECTED TO DESIRES. 
Sthe spouse, married life 
Sall partners 
Ssexual passions 
residence in foreign countries 
Scourts 
SYveins and loins 


EIGHTH HOUSE IS A MOKSHA HOUSE, CONNECTED TO FINAL 
LIBERATION. 
Slife, longevity 
‘means of death; experience of death 
Swills & legacies, insurance benefits 
Sjoint finances; partner's money) alimony 
Sability to receive partner's wealth 
‘sexual strength, reproductive system, venereal diseases 
sexual attractiveness 
chronic_and long-term illnesses of any kind 
occult subjects, secretive matters 
Sintuition 
accidents 


NINTH HOUSE IS A DHARMA HOUSE CONNECTED TO LIFE PURPOSE. 
Sthe father 
Sluck, fortune, solutions to problems 
religion, philosophy 
faith, worship 
Sa person's Guru 
‘spiritual teachers, elders 
Stravel—long journeys 
Swisdom 


> _higher knowledge of all kinds, higher‘education 
> _law 
S performance of good deeds, charity, virtue 


TENTH HOUSE IS AN ARTHA HOUSE, CONNECTED TO WEALTH 
MATTERS. 
% career, professional activities 
') the dharma, or life purpose 
fame, honor, status 
'S "worldly, power 
'S Tholy_ pilgrimages 
'S Tgood deeds, activities which benefit society 
'S Tauthority figures, eminent persons, government officials 


ELEVENTH HOUSE IS A KAMA HOUSE, CONNECTED TO DESIRES. 
Smajor goals, ambitions, and desires 
Sopportunities 
Seldest sibling 
Sgains and profits by any means (wealth) 
sudden financial fluctuations 
‘supplemental monies, wealth from sideline jobs or sudden ventures 
paternal uncle 
Slegs and ankles 


TWELFTH HOUSE IS A MOKSHA HOUSE CONNECTED TO FINAL 
LIBERATION. 

Sexpenditure, expenses 

>moksha, self-realization, enlightenment, final liberation, salvation 

Sthe state after death (heaven or hell), Jokas, or planes of existence 

Sthe bedroom, bedding 

“pleasures of the bed (sexual pleasure) 

3S"unknown places" (remote, far-off countries) 


Shospitalsy prisons 

Sconfinement 

Shearing, the left’ear 

vision, the left eye 

Sfeet 

Sanus 

waste, debts, misfortune 
‘experience with thieves and robbers 
secret enemies 


BASIS—THE ZODIAC SIGNS 


Although the signs of the zodiac in Hindu astrology are of the same 
characteristics as in the Western system (except that Capricorn is repres- 
ented as a crocodile instead of a goat), there is very little information 
extracted from their use. Certain modern Hindu astrological authors have 
used sign delineations in their texts, however, it appears that they have 
taken their knowledge from Western astrological wisdom. In Hindu scrip- 
tures signs are simply not employed in this way. And in practice, nor do 
Hindu astrologers bother with sign interpretations. 


Rasis, or signs, are not totally disregarded, but they are used ina 
very basic and simplistic way. For example, it may be said that a person 
born with a Gemini ascendant will be intellectually oriented, since Mer- 
cury rules his ascending sign. Or an astrologer may note that Venus 
posited in a sign of Mars (i.e., Scorpio) will give a person strong sexual 
passions. But the Western sort of explanation of Venus in Scorpio, de- 
scribing jealousy, intensity, selfishness, etc., is out of bounds in this sys- 
tem. There are only simplistic statements made, based upon the mixture 
of the posited planet and the lord of the particular sign. It may be that 
there is in fact value to sign delineations in Hindu astrology—that, for 
example, more leaders are born with Leo ascendants, or more spiritualists 
have Aquarian or Pisces midheavens. But it should be understood by 
Western astrologers that this kind of delineation is not Hindu astrology 
as handed down by the ancient sages or as practiced in India at the pres- 
ent time. 


A common use of signs occurs in the Hindu yogas, or planetary 
unions, where a statement may be made noting that, for example, if a 
particular planet involved in a yoga combination is found occupying, 
say, a cardinal sign, then a specifically defined effect will result. This is a 
matter of applying memorized factual rules rather than any kind of 
thoughtful interpretation or analysis. 


Since there is no great body of information which has been im- 
parted regarding the effects of signs, what is given below are simply the 
Hindu names of each sign, as well as their essential characteristics. These 
attributes are known as elements and triplicities, and as they are used 
only in scriptural delineations in a technical manner, no explanation of 
their meaning is necessary. When studying the scriptures, these must be 
learned. 


SIGNS 


Aries 


Taurus 
Gemini 
Cancer 
Leo 

Virgo 
Libra 
Scorpio 
Sagittarius 
Capricorn 
Aquarius 
Pisces 


HINDU NAME 


Mesha 


Vrishabh 
Mithuna 
Kataka 
Simha 
Kanya 
Thula 
Vrischik 
Dhanus 
Makara 
Kumbha 
Meena 


Cardinal 


Fixed 
Dual 
Cardinal 
Fixed 
Dual 
Cardinal 
Fixed 
Dual 
Cardinal 
Fixed 
Dual 


masculine 


feminine 
masculine 
feminine 
masculine 
feminine 
masculine 
feminine 
masculine 
feminine 
masculine 
feminine 


GAINING PERSPECTIVE OF THE HINDU SYSTEM 


Hindu predictive astrology is very different from Western astrology. 
In order to learn this system, it is crucial to approach the work innocently 
and newly, disregarding as best as possible whatever is known from West- 
ern astrological wisdom. It is not the difference in specific techniques 
which is of significance. It is that the ESSENCE of delineation is radically 
dissimilar. The Hindu method is much more simple and circumscribed 
than Western astrology. Planets are either benefic or malefic by nature. 
Any planet conjunct with or aspected by a benefic flourishes. Planets 
aspected by malefics are destroyed. Houses are either weak or powerful, 
and power produces good effects while weakness destroys significations. 
Benefic planets cast beneficial aspects onto houses; malefic aspects de- 
stroy houses. The trinal houses (5th and 9th) give good results, while the 
dusthanas, or evil, houses (6th, 8th, and 12th) cause misery. Therefore, 
make no mistake about it: there is no meditative blending or symbolic 
imagery to be used in this system. There are only rules to be followed and 
accounted for. Once having learned the basic significations, there is 
simply the process of considering the innumerable influences, some posi- 
tive and some negative, and then drawing a final conclusion as to 
whether a signification is more likely to flourish, wither, or function 
somewhere in between. Astrologers who carry detailed sign analysis or 
symbolic imagery into this work will fall flat when it comes to prediction. 
They will also have invented a brand new system of astrology! 


Because of the preconceptions Western astrologers may have, and 
simply in order to gain a more clear perspective and sense of proportion 
regarding Hindu techniques, the reader is requested at this point to read 
1 or 2 pages of the section titled "Horoscopes of Famous People." This 
should be done, however, in a very light and easy fashion, with no inten- 
tion at all to understand the details involved, but merely to get a sense of 
how this ancient system of astrology works. Otherwise, when attempting 
to learn the various elements given in this book, there is likely to be a 
difficulty in knowing which factors take precedence over others and 
which deserve emphasis in terms of delineation. This could especially 
occur because the section titled "Planets in The Houses" forms the bulk of 
this text and therefore may seem to be the predominant factor involved. 
One might then be somewhat surprised when finally reaching the practi- 
cal application section "Horoscopes of Famous People." Those astrologers 
familiar with horary astrology may find the work easier, since horary is 
also a system based upon many rules, regulations, and significations. 


However, anyone with a sincere desire to learn this system and with a 
moderate degree of patience will soon be making accurate predictions. 
And as always, experimentation and experience with the system are the 
best teachers. 


FRIENDSHIPS BETWEEN PLANETS 


In Hindu astrology, planets have friends, enemies, and those which 
are considered neutral. Generally Rahu, Venus, Saturn, & Mercury are 
friendly to each other, while Jupiter, the Sun, the Moon, & Mars welcome 
each other's presence. While Rahu is included in the friendship scheme, 
Ketu is not. However, most astrologers consider Rahu's enemies to also be 
inimical to Ketu. 


The friends, enemies, and neutrals of each planet have been given 
separately in the descriptions of each planet. However, below are 2 horo- 
scope forms showing in which signs each planet is welcome or unwel- 
come. If a planet is not posited in a particular sign in either chart, it is 
because that sign is a neutral influence to the planet. Until the 
knowledge of planetary friendships is second nature, these graphs should 
be kept in sight when delineating any horoscope. 


PLANETS IN 


FRIENDS’ SIGNS 


Friendships are a basic and important part of delineation, as a 
planet in an enemy's house cannot be expected to produce the same 
effects as it will in a sign where it is welcomed as a friend. Placement in a 
friendly or unfriendly sign will not affect a planet with the same intensity 
as would an exaltation or fallen status, but the influence is not insignifi- 
cant enough to be ignored. Astrological work is essentially the considera- 
tion and blending of an innumerable number of factors, of which friend- 
ships are a basic technique to help tip the scales in either a positive or 
negative direction. 


What is discussed above is the issue of "permanent" or "natural" 


friendships. There is another matter, known as "temporary," or "acciden- 
tal," friendships, which has to do with the relationship between 2 planets 
based upon their house placements. This is a more complicated, technical 
matter calculated in shad bala to determine the strength of a planet, and 
is not included in this text. 


PLANETARY POWERS 


Uchcha Neecha Moolatrikona Swakshetra 
(exalted) (fallen) (1st triangle) (own sign) 
es ory jos bozo 8) 2030" 
Moor OD as M, os'—w' & wO'~30 F | 
vecege on an’ or-12" Ina ap odo! 
16° MWe 1S" }{ Io—20 TR yp 00*=20" 
Jupiter os! cS Os" V5 00°05" l 05’ 0" y 00" —ay° 
Venus up # av" hg "20" oe -H' A 00° =30% 
Saturn 20° & ar ye ("20° = 20°30’ = )0"=30" 
Rahu H mm Incondush<¢ inconclusive Inconchshie 
on H & Inconcluslye inconclusive ingonchsive 


NOTE—Planets in degrees preceding their deepest point of exaltation or fall are still of the 
described condition but less intensely so. Planets following the most extreme point are tech- 
nically no longer of the specified state and give nowhere near such exceptional effects. 


Planetary powers are an extremely basic and important part of 
Hindu astrology and must be memorized. Until this is done, the table 
above should be kept in sight when analyzing any horoscope. What is 
revealed is in what sign each planet functions in an extraordinary 
fashion. Naturally, a planet posited in the sign it owns will operate 
smoothly and powerfully and give very good results. However, the best 
effects are manifested when a planet is found in its exaltation sign, for 
this is its absolute, best placement. In this event, the significations of the 
planet, as well as the houses it rules, greatly flourish. 


The worst condition of a planet occurs when it occupies its fallen 
sign. This is the sign exactly opposite the place where the planet would be 
exalted. A planet in the fallen state is terribly weakened and afflicted and 
produces only misery unless otherwise very well aspected. 


The next situation to be considered is called moolatrikona, or 1st 
triangle, which has no parallel in Western astrology. The moolatrikona is 
generally a portion of a planet's own sign which has been found to be the 
segment where the planet functions best. For example, Venus rules both 
Libra and Taurus, and it has been determined that, of the two signs, 
Venus gives best effects in the 1st 20 degrees of Libra. A planet in its 
moolatrikona sign gives results in between its swakshetra and exaltation. 


While Western astrology employs planetary powers, or dignities, in 
much the same way as Hindu astrology, there are certain differences 


other than what has been mentioned regarding moolatrikonas. First of 
all, there are no "detriments" in the Hindu system. Detriments are a nega, 
tive condition in Western astrology which occur when a planet is in the 
sign opposite the sign it rules. However, this state does not exist in Hindu 
astrology, and Western astrologers are cautioned against assuming nega: 
tive effects when noticing such a condition. It must also be noted that in 
Hindu astrology Mercury is exalted in Virgo, not Aquarius. Finally, and 
this is a most important point, the Hindus have narrowed down the 
exalted and fallen placements of a planet to a particular degree. It cannot 
be overemphasized that these extreme points are amazingly intense in 
their effects. For example, if Saturn, which is exalted in Libra, is in 5 
degrees of that sign, then it will give excellent results. But if it is in 20 
degrees, which is its deepest exaltation, then the results will be phenom- 
enal! The same delineations exist, of course, for fallen placements. It is 
also important to remember that, as the scriptures have stated, when a 
planet has passed its deepest degree of exaltation or fall, it is no longer of 
that specified status. For example, Saturn in 25 degrees is no longer con- 
sidered exalted, though it still may give relatively good results. 


Regarding Rahu and Ketu, nearly every ancient sage has given out 
differing opinions on the swakshetra, moolatrikona, and neecha 
positions. The only agreed- reed-upon fact is that both Rahu and Ketu are 


exalted i in either of Mercury's signs, co _or_Virgo. And, in practice 
these placements are consistent and reliable! 


Planetary powers are an essential of this system and a simple way 
for the beginning astrologer to see the accuracy and consistency of Hindu 
astrology. Even without an awareness of aspects, rulerships, and other 
subtleties, there will be predictable results a good percentage of the time 
simply by relying on these sign placements. 


HOUSE RULERSHIPS 


Each house in a horoscope comes under the influence of a zodiacal 
sign. Each sign corresponds to a particular planet whose attributes make 
up the nature of that sign. The planet is said to own the sign and is called 
the house ruler or house lord. The well being of the house thus depends 
upon the condition of its lord, or ruler. For example, if the Sun, which 
rules Leo, is weak or afflicted, then the house of Leo and its significations 
are spoiled. The house lord is not the only indicator influencing the 
house, as planets aspecting or posited in the house paint the other half of 
the picture. There is also the matter of the house karaka, or natural indi- 
cator, which will be discussed later. However, rulerships in Hindu astrol- 
ogy are both the backbone and the beauty of the system, and must never 
be ignored or underestimated. 


Below is a horoscope showing the lord of each sign. This must be 
memorized. The outer planets Uranus, Neptune, and Pluto were not used 
in ancient times and are still unnecessary in so far as making accurate 
predictions, which is the essence of Hindu astrology. 


Regarding rulerships, every planet carries with it, over and above 
its essential nature, a benefic or malefic influence because of the house it 
rules. For example, the trikonas, or trinal houses 5 & 9, are the best 
houses in a horoscope, and therefore whichever planet rules either one of 
these takes on a very positive energy and greatly benefits whichever house 
it occupies. It is then called a yogakaraka, or union maker, or functional 
benefic. In certain horoscopes, depending upon the ascending sign, a 
planet will rule 2 auspicious houses. Then it becomes a raja yogakaraka, 
or royal union maker, giving the finest results possible. For example, 


Saturn, in a Taurus ascendant horoscope, rules the 9th and 10th, both 
excellent houses, and thus Saturn becomes a raja yogakaraka. Not all 
horoscopes have such a planet, but no matter what the ascendant, there 
will always be certain yogakarakas. There will also be functional malefics, 
which are benefics that take on malefic status because they rule bad 
houses. And there will, of course, be those that are neutral or unaffected 
in either direction by the houses they own. Below is a table indicating the 
good and bad planets for each ascendant. Any planet considered neutral 
is omitted from the graph but should be kept in mind as such. The 
planet in the 1st column is the best planet for the ascendant, then follows 
other beneficial planets, and then the bad planets or functional malefics. 
The table is based on numerous and rather complicated scriptural 
rules, which would be difficult to try to memorize. The sages have taken 
into consideration the fact that a planet may be carrying negative energy 
from one house it rules and a positive influence from another. 
Conclusions have been made accordingly as to which influence 
outweighs the other. 


NOTE—A word of caution. The rules which have gone into the preparation for this 
table are given separately later on. It will be seen that the sages have assigned the rulers of 
the 2nd, 8th, and 12th houses as neutral. It is unknown why they have done so since all 
throughout the astrological works they condemn the 8th and 12th lords as causing nothing 
but destruction. So although the graph is otherwise extremely helpful, one must know that 
the ruler of any dusthana house will carry the most malefic energy. 


House rulerships are so crucial that this graph must be kept in 
sight when analyzing any horoscope. A good deal of experience is neces- 
sary to understand the practical effects of rulerships in terms of their 
functional benefic or malefic influence. The essential nature of a planet 


does not change just because it carries positive or negative energy by its 
lordship status. For example, Saturn, as raja yogakaraka of Taurus 
ascendant, when placed in the 5th house (offspring), still will not give 
more than a very few children. But those which are born will be decidedly 
special or powerful. Likewise, Mars, the best planet for a Leo ascendant 
when placed in the 7th house, will still greatly disturb the married life, 
but the spouse will be prosperous, special, or famous. On the other hand, 
natural benefic planets, such as the waxing Moon, Venus, and Jupiter, 
will always give good results, but when they own bad houses they will 
not be as beneficial and will ultimately give certain negative effects also. 


RAJA YOGAKARAKAS 


A rajayoga, or royal union occurs when the lords of 2 auspicious 
houses join together in one house. This produces a very fortunate effect 
on the significations governed by the house they are posited in, even 
though the planets themselves may be malefics by nature. For certain 
horoscopes the union may occur naturally due to one planet ruling 2 for- 
tunate houses. But this is rare and only happens for Taurus, Cancer, and 
Libra ascendants. 


Ascendant 

ARIES—the Sun and Jupiter, when joined together, cause rajayoga. 
TAURUS—Saturn, which rules houses 9 and 10, alone causes rajayoga. 
GEMINI—Venus and Mercury, when joined together, cause rajayoga. 
CANCER—Mars, which rules houses 5 and 10, alone causes rajayoga. 
LEO—Jupiter and Mars, when joined together, cause rajayoga. VIRGO— 
Venus and Mercury, when joined together, cause rajayoga. LIBRA— 
Saturn, which rules houses 4 and 5, alone causes, rajayoga. SCORPIO— 
The Sun and Moon, when joined together cause, rajayoga. 
SAGITTARIUS—Mars and Jupiter, when joined together, cause rajayoga. 
CAPRICORN—Venus and Mercury, when joined together, cause rajayoga. 
AQUARIUS—Venus and Mars, when joined together, cause rajayoga. 
PISCES—Mars and the Moon, or Mars and Jupiter when joined together 


cause rajayoga. 


SOME RULES WHICH FORM THE RULERSHIP TABLE GIVEN ON 
PAGE 50 


KENDRAS (angular houses)-1st, 4th, 7th, & 10th 


S Benefics which rule kendras take on negative energy and the ability to 
do harm. 

S Malefics which rule kendras take on positive energy and the ability to 
do good. 

S Lords of kendras are powerful. Of them, the lord of the 1st is weakest, 
the lord of the 4th stronger, the lord of the 7th stronger still, and the 
ruler of the 10th strongest. 


S$ Planets in kendras are powerful, and they are prominent influences 
in a person's life. 


TRIKONAS (trinal houses)-5th & 9th 


§, Any planet ruling a trikona is auspicious and carries the most positive 
energy with it. 
>» Trikona lords are so auspicious that they produce great benefits even 


when they simultaneously rule evil houses. 
S, Planets posited in a trikona house flourish, as do the houses they rule. 


S, The Lord of the 5th is not quite as powerful as the lord of the 9th. 


NOTE—Some astrologers consider the ruler of the 1st as a trtkona and a kendra lord. 


UPACHAYAS-3rd, 6th, 10th & llth 


NOTE—the 10th house is an upachaya house in terms of its nature and behavior, 
but for lordship purposes it is considered a kendra. 


» Upachayas are growing houses where planets gain in strength through- 
out a person's life, and conditions indicated by the house can 
improve in time with effort. 


§, Any planet ruling an upachaya house takes on negative energy, though 


not of an intense nature, and may cause slight harm. 
§, Malefics in upachayas give excellent results. 


§, Benefics in upachayas give good but not great results and are not par- 


ticularly enhanced or benefited by the house energy. 
S, Of the upachayas, the 3rd is the weakest and the Ilth the strongest. 


NEUTRAL HOUSES—the lords of the 2nd, 8th, & 12th 


§, Are said to give good results if they are conjunct with a benefic planet. 
(In practice, Indian astrologers do not follow this advice except per- 
haps for the lord of the 2nd. Practically speaking, the 8th and the 
12th destroy all of their associations.) 


> Planets posited in the 2nd house are not greatly influenced one way or 
the other, unless by aspect or sign placement. 


DUSTHANAS (evil houses)-6th, 8th, & 12th 


§, Any planet ruling a dusthana carries negative energy with it and causes 
destruction where it is posited. 

§, Any planet posited in a dusthana is ruined, as are the houses it rules. 

§S, The 6th house and its ruler are the least malefic of the dusthanas, 
especially since the 6th is a growing house where conditions may 
improve. 


MARAKAS (Death-inflicting planets)—the rulers of the 2nd and 7th 
houses. 


¢ The houses of life are the 8th and the 3rd (the 3rd being the 8th from 
the 8th). The 12th house is known as the house of loss. The 12th 
from the 8th house is the 7th; therefore the 7th takes on an evil 
influence to life. The 12th from the 3rd is the 2nd, and it also 
becomes destructive. This matter is an extreme subtlety, and con- 
cern over marakas should be delayed until the astrologer is highly 
experienced in Hindu astrology. The most obvious effect occurs 
when both marakas are posited in the same house. In such a case 
there may be an evil effect which is otherwise astrologically undetec- 
table. Most astrologers use the marakas to determine the time of 
death, because many people die in a period or sub-period of a mar- 
aka. However, this is a very complicated matter, and there must be 
other strong afflictions to the planet in question for a death to occur. 


NOTE—While no scriptures distinguish which carries more power 
to affect a house, occupying planets or house rulers, the author's expe- 
rience is that the house ruler is slightly (perhaps 5-10%) more important. 
This is because the house ruler relates to the STRUCTURE of the house. 
An analogy which might illumine the point is to imagine of what use 
beautiful furniture would be in a house with a corroded foundation. Some 
good effects would certainly be enjoyed but ultimately there would always 
be problems. 


DRISHTIS—PLANETARY ASPECTS 


§, All planets aspect the 7th house from themselves. 

S Mars aspects the 4th, 7th, & 8th house from itself. 

5S, Jupiter aspects the 5th, 7th, & 9th house from itself 
S Saturn aspects the 3rd, 7th, & 10th house from itself 


Planets in the horoscope affect not only the houses they occupy but 
also other houses and planets they cast their glance upon. These glances 
are called aspects, except when referring to the relationship between 2 
planets posited in the same sign. That is called a conjunction and 
works in basically the same way as an aspect. The effect of an aspect 
depends mainly on the planet casting the glance. Malefic planets throw 
destructive aspects. They also harm any planet they are conjoined with. 
Benefic planets throw beneficial aspects and enhance any planet they 
conjunct. It is also necessary to consider the characteristics of the 
planets involved. For example, a Saturn aspect, aside from the harm it 
causes, will bestow an ascetic or restrictive energy onto any planet or 
house it glances on. Jupiter, apart from the benevolence it gives, brings a 
spiritual or religious vibration to its associations. The rulership status of 
aspecting planets is also crucial. For instance, the ruler of the 9th 
house as the aspecting planet grants extremely positive energy, as well 
a spiritual vibration. Aspects received from the 8th or 12th house 
Lords cause destruction, loss, and misery. In this manner, based upon 
the qualities and rulerships of a planet, aspects should be understood. 
Though seemingly complicated, these matters are easily grasped when 
reading the practical section "Horoscopes of Famous People" given later in 
this book. 


Aspects are of major importance and must never be ignored. One of 
the easiest ways to see how powerful aspects can be is to note the effect 3 
or 4 planets posited in one house will have on the opposite house. This is 
because all planets aspect the 7th from themselves. For example, if there 
are 4 planets in the 9th house, the person will have highly significant 
experiences of 3rd house matters, e.g., brothers and sisters, the fine arts, 
etc. Whether these experiences are good or bad depends, of course, on the 
nature of the aspecting planets. But in any event, the house itself would 
be highly energized. 


There are fundamental differences between Hindu and Western 
astrology tn the matter of aspects. First of all, In Hindu astrology planets: 
aspect houses as well as other planets, whereas In the Western system 


they are powerless to aspect houses. Also, in Hindu astrology aspects are 
cast from sign to sign rather than from a particular degree. There is no 
such thing as what is called an orb of influence, which in Western astrol- 
ogy means the 8 or 10 degrees (generally) that a planet's aspect may have 
an effect. In Hindu astrology a planet in 2 degrees or 28 degrees will 
aspect the entire 30 degrees of a sign it is designated to aspect. Likewise, 
a planet in one sign is conjunct with any planet in that same sign regard- 
less of the degree. Naturally, the closer the the aspect is, the greater is the 
influence experienced, but even aspects not within a tight orb will pro- 
duce a recognizable effect. 


Concerning aspects, there are a few important points to keep in 
mind. Whenever a planet aspects the house it rules or the signs where it 
would be exalted or fallen, the results are somewhat altered. The logic is 
that a planet will give special treatment to its own house or any signs it is 
compatible with. In other words, if Jupiter in a particular horoscope 
aspects the 4th house, which in this case, say, is owned by Sagittarius, 
then it is an even more favorable glance than the ordinary Jupiter aspect. 
However, this is a subtle matter and not to be taken as an absolute, all- 
encompassing rule, because the effect will also depend on the nature of 
the house being aspected. For example, if Mars aspects the 2nd house, 
which hypothetically is owned by Scorpio, the aspect may energize the 
2nd house and give good results for wealth matters. But if Mars were to 
aspect the 7th house even though ruled by Scorpio, married life could not 
possibly benefit from such a harsh energy. The Mars aspect would simply 
cause its usual destruction. Also as has been mentioned, if a planet 
aspects the sign where it would be exalted, it gives an extra beneficial 
energy. In the same way, a planet aspecting its fallen sign can cause great 
harm. 


Below is a horoscope demonstrating how aspects work. 


in this chart: 
The Sun aspects the 1st house. 
The Moon aspects the 11th. 


S Mars aspects the 3rd, 6th. & 7th. 


> Mercury aspects the 12th. 
Jupiter aspects the 9th, llth, & 1st. 


Venus aspects the 3rd. 
Saturn aspects the 2nd, 6th, and 9th. 


Rahu and Ketu do not throw aspects. 


The Moon is conjunct with Jupiter. 
Mars is conjunct with Saturn. 


Mars aspects Ketu. 

Mars aspects the Sun. 

Mars aspects Mercury. 
Saturn aspects Venus. 
Saturn aspects Mercury. 
Saturn aspects Rahu. 

Venus is conjunct with Rahu. 
Venus aspects Ketu. 

Jupiter aspects Venus. 
Jupiter aspects Rahu. 
Jupiter is conjunct with the Moon. 


MMMMMMMMMMMMm™ WMMmM 


There is also a difference between Hindu and Western astrology in 
the way aspects work, which should be made clear below. In Hindu astrol- 
ogy both planets involved in a mutual aspect (either the conjunction or 
the opposition) are affected, but one planet may be beneficially aspected 
while the other is harmed. Note how this occurs in the sample horoscope 
above. 


Mercury is negatively aspected by Mars. 

Mars is beneficially aspected by Mercury. 

Mercury is negatively aspected by Saturn. 

Saturn is beneficially aspected by Mercury. 
Rahu is beneficially aspected by Venus. 

Venus is negatively aspected by Rahu. 

Venus beneficially aspects Ketu. 

Mars negatively aspects Saturn. 

Saturn negatively aspects Mars. 

Jupiter beneficially aspects the Moon. 

The Moon's aspect on Jupiter is not so beneficial because the Moon 
waning and ruling a bad house, the 12th. 


mMMMMMMMMMmM 


a 
na 


NOTE—Although there is no mention of this matter made in the scriptures, it appears from 
experience that the waning Moon often casts a beneficial aspect. 


ASPECTS WHICH HAVE AN ALTERED EFFECT 


S Venus aspects its own house, Libra (the 3rd house). 
S Saturn aspects its fallen placement, Aries (the 10th house). 
S Saturn aspects its own house, Capricorn (the 6th house). 


¢ The Sun aspects its own house, Leo (the 1st house). 
Mars aspects its exaltation house, Capricorn (the 6th house). 


PARTIAL ASPECTS 


The aspects which have been given are "full" aspects and are a 
basic ingredient necessary to correctly analyze a horoscope. They are used 
by all Indian astrologers. However, in the scriptural rules there are also 
aspects which are called 4 aspects, |/2 aspects, and i/4 aspects. These do 
have an effect but are insignificant enough to be disregarded by practic- 
ing astrologers. For purely technical purposes and for astrologers who 
wish to analyze the information, these more slight aspects are now given. 
S All planets aspect the 3rd and 10th houses from themselves with a Vt 
effect. 

5S, All planets aspect the 5th and 9th houses from themselves with a 1/2 
effect. 

S All planets aspect the 4th and 8th houses from themselves with a :/4 
effect. 


SA certain few scriptures attribute aspecting power to Rahu and Kewtu, 
but few astrologers accept the fact. 


EXCHANGE OF SIGNS 


When 2 planets occupy each other's sign, they are in a gifted condi- 
tion, whereby both planets become more powerful. The planets not only 
gain strength but are more able to fully express their essential natures. In 
Western astrology this is known as mutual reception. For example, if 
Saturn and the Sun are in opposition in a horoscope, the aspect may 
produce a spiritual or ascetic nature, and the person may be somewhat 
detached from ambition and worldly desires. But if the planets exchange 
signs, that is, if Saturn is in Leo—the Sun's sign—and the Sun is in 
Aquarius—Saturn's sign—then the aspect produces its utmost possibil- 
ity. The spiritual nature of the person becomes quite extraordinary. 


SHAD BALA—DETERMINING PLANETARY STRENGTHS 


Ancient Hindu sages have given out a wealth of information con- 
cerning the conditions which strengthen or weaken the planets. An 
exceptionally detailed computation system has been devised to delineate 
these strengths. The system is called shad bala, or "six strengths." The 
significance of shad bala is that it reveals whether a planet will produce 
positive or negative effects, for power in this system enables a planet to 
function well and give benefits, while weakness destroys this ability. 
Clearly, a powerful or well-disposed malefic, such as Mars or Saturn, will 
give good results, while a weak or afflicted benefic causes problems and 
misery. 


The calculations of shad bala take many hours, and although 
some few astrologers will take the time to do them, most do not. For there 
are so many basic conditions which are easily discernable that to go 
through the tedious process needed to ascertain the exact numerical 
strength of a planet seems unnecessary. This is not to say that shad bala 
does not produce precise, efficient, and useful information. It does. How- 
ever, the procedure is simply too time-consuming. And in any case, good 
results are achieved if the essential elements of shad bala are used even 
without mathematical precision. In this book just the basics will be given. 
For those who wish to learn the calculations, there are two books which 
teach the method:Graha and Bhava Balas, by B.V. Raman, and Constel- 
lational Astrology, by Robert De Luce. 


Of the 6 sources of strength, the first 3 are easily observable, while 
the others are more obscure and therefore generally ignored by most 
astrologers. 


1. STHANNA BALA—POSITIONAL STRENGTH 


§, Planets in exaltation signs are strongest. 
¥ Planets in their moolatrikona signs are second most powerful. 
Planets in their own signs are very strong. 
Planets occupying houses of their friends are strong. 
§, Planets occupying their exaltation or own signs in the navamsa chart 
(or many of the other vargas) are also strong. 


Planets which occupy the same sign in the navamsa and the natal 
chart are also strong. This condition is called Vargottama, and scriptures 


declare that this condition is almost as beneficial as a planet occupying 
its own sign. This should not be applied to a fallen planet, however. 


S Planets in their fallen signs are weakest. 

S Planets in houses owned by enemies are weakened. 

S Planets in fallen signs in the nauctinsa (or other uargas) are also 
weakened. 


2. DIK BALA—DIRECTIONAL STRENGTH 


Jupiter and Mercury are most powerful in the 1st house. 
The Sun and Mars are most powerful in the 10th house. 
Venus and the Moon are most powerful in the 4th house. 
Saturn is most powerful in the 7th house. 


MMMM 


The planets are weakest in the houses opposite their most powerful 
placements. Planets in between their weakest and strongest positions 
receive an appropriate numerical value in the dik Bala source of strength. 


3. DRIGBALA—ASPECT STRENGTH 


5, Planets which are aspected by benefics (Venus, Jupiter, Moon, 
Mercury) are strengthened. 


5 Planets aspected by malefics are weakened. The closer the degree of 
aspect, the more intense the effects. 


4. NAISARGIKA BALA—BRIGHTNESS STRENGTH 


Each planet is assigned a natural strength based upon its bright- 
ness in the heavens. The Moon's nodes, though not visibly perceptible, are 
curiously the strongest. 


IN ORDER OF INCREASING STRENGTH 


1. Rahu & Ketu 5. Jupiter 
2. The Sun 6. Mercury 
3. The Moon 7. Mars 

4. Venus 8. Saturn 


5. KALA BALA—TIME STRENGTH 


The Moon, Mars, and Saturn are powerful for night births. 

The Sun, Jupiter, and Venus are powerful for daytime births. 
Mercury is always strong. 

Benefics are strong for births during the bright phase of the Moon. 
Malefics are strong for births during the dark half of the month. 


MMMIMIM 


6. CHESTA BALA—MOTIONAL STRENGTH 


Planets traveling in slower motion at birth are strong. Therefore all 
planets other than the Sun and the Moon gain this source of strength 
when in retrograde motion. A planet moving in forward motion but slower 
than its usual pace is also extremely powerful. 


¢ The Sun and Moon are strong in the signs of their northerly course, ie., 
Capricorn, Aquarius, Pisces, Aries, Taurus, and Gemini. 


NOTE—Retrograde planets, though assigned chesta bala strength, are not necessarily to be 
considered powerful in horoscope delineation. Please see "Retrogrades' on page 63. 


IMPORTANT CONDITIONS NOT MENTIONED IN SHAD BALA 


PLANETARY WAR—When 2 planets are conjunct within 1 degree of 
each other, they are said to fight a war. The winner is the planet in the 
earliest longitude. For example, if Venus occupies 5° Leo 23' and Jupiter 
is 6° Leo 07', then Venus wins the war and its significations are strength- 
ened. Jupiter and the houses it rules are weakened or spoiled. However, it 
is important to note whether a planet loses a war to a benefic or malefic 
because when losing to a benefic, some good results are also bound to 
occur. Planetary wars do not include the Sun, the Moon, Rahu, or Ketu. 


COMBUSTION (ECLIPSED)—Any planet within 8 degrees of the 
Sun (except Rahu or Ketu) is known to be combusted, or eclipsed. It is 
thus burnt up or absorbed by the Sun's intense rays and as such 
becomes powerless. Its significations, as well as the houses it rules, are 
spoiled. 


HOUSE PLACEMENTS—Planets in trikonas (Sth and 9th) are 
enhanced. Planets in dusthanas (6th, 8th, or 12th) are ruined. Planets in 
any kendra (1st, 4th, 7th, or 10th) are powerful. 


ASPECTS—Planets aspected by the lord of the Sth or 9th are 
enhanced. Planets aspected by the lord of the 6th, 8th, or 12th are 
harmed. 


PLANETARY ZONES FOR PLANETS IN ODD SIGNS (I 51,="-, , 


00°-06° childhood state 
06°-12° boyhood state 
12°-18° adulthood state 
18°-24° old age state 
24 °-30 ° death state 


For planets in even signs, the reverse is the case. 


Planets in the first or last few degrees of a sign are especially weak. 
Those which occupy the very first or last degree are usually totally devas- 
tated and cannot even slightly benefit the houses they rule. 


BHEETA (ACCELERATION)—Any planet traveling at a more rapid 
speed than its usual pace (during one's birth) is weakened. 


STATIONARY DIRECT—Planets in this state are extraordinarily 
powerful. This condition is noted in the ephemeris by the letter D. 


HEMMED IN—If a planet is flanked on both sides exclusively by 
benefics or malefics, it is said to be hemmed in. Either it will be benefited 
or harmed, depending on the nature of the planets involved. This condi- 
tion exists even if one or both of the flanking planets are in a directly 
preceding or following house. However, it does not exist if planets of the 
opposite nature are also in the way or aspecting the considered planet. 
It is especially devastating if the Moon is hemmed in by malefics. This is 
known as papakarthari. 


EXCHANGE OF SIGNS—This occurs when 2 planets are posited in 
each others signs. For example, if Jupiter occupies Cancer and the Moon 
is in Pisces, then both planets become more powerful unless they are rul- 
ing bad houses. To understand the effect of this condition, it is necessary 
to consider the nature of the planets involved. The most significant result 
of this condition occurs when a dasa bhukti of both planets comes to 
pass. 


THE EFFECT OF RETROGRADE PLANETS 


R 


Planets always move in forward motion, but at certain intervals 
they appear from our viewpoint to slow down and move backwards. This 
is called retrograde motion and is indicated in a horoscope by the symbol 
R The Hindu scriptures give out only a very few statements about retro- 
grades. Regarding the system of shad bala, retrogrades are considered 
more powerful than planets in forward motion. However, in practically 
analyzing a horoscope, this statement is misleading or at best useless. 
But before describing the actual effects of the retrograde, let us mention 
the other available comment which has been given. Many sages assert 
that a neecha planet (planet in its fallen sign) when retrograde gives 
effects as if it were exalted. And they say that an uchcha, or exalted, 
planet going backwards behaves as though it were fallen. This, though 
not an absolute truth, has some merit or may be closer to the truth, and it 
will be explained why. 


In practice the main effect of retrograde motion is to greatly reduce 
the impact a planet may have on its associations. For example, a retro- 
grade benefic will not so greatly benefit the house it occupies or the 
houses and planets it aspects. Therefore benefics function better when in 
forward motion. The effect of retrograde motion on malefics is quite 
interesting, for the typical negative energy of the malefic is so lessened 
as to reduce the planet to an almost neutral yet powerful mass of 
vibration, which energizes the house it occupies. It still, of course, makes its 
malefic aspects and may harm other houses and planets, but in a less 
severe way. And it enhances the house it occupies. So it is that bad 
planets become somewhat good when retrograde and good planets, 
though still benevolent, lose much of their power. 


Regarding the issue of exalted or fallen planets in retrograde 
motion, the results are similar to what has been explained above. Any 
exalted planet, when retrograde, no longer has such power to give benef- 
its. It does not, however, contrary to certain Hindu scriptures, cause 
harm. But it is greatly weakened. Fallen retrograde planets, on the other 
hand, lose their harmful impact, and malefics in this condition may actu- 
ally be capable of some good effects. This is a subtle matter which need 
not be labored over as it will become more clear with experience. 


Perhaps the most important point to be mentioned concerns the 
weakening effect a retrograde planet has on the house it rules. This must 


not be underestimated, for it affects those house significations in a very 
recognizable way. For example, if the lord of the 1st house is retrograde, 
the person may greatly lack confidence or self-esteem. And gaining any 
kind of recognition or fame will be difficult if not impossible unless there 
are other, contrary indications. As another example, if the ruler of the 5th 
house were retrograde, there would be very few children. In this fashion, 
retrogrades have their influence. 


Although rarely noted in horoscopes, there is also a point when a 
retrograde planet stops before returning to its forward motion. This 
occurrence is called stationary direct and is noted in any ephemeris (the 
book containing the daily motion of planets) by the letter D. A stationary 
direct planet has an immensely powerful effect and is often responsible 
for an enormous amount of energy given to the significations of the 
planet and the house it occupies. As one can imagine, if all the universe is 
constantly moving while one particular planet is stopped dead in its 
tracks, then an obviously unique situation exists. But this is merely a 
metaphor and not to be taken too literally, since planets do not in fact go 
backwards or stop. In any case, very few astrologers take the time to note 
this condition, as it is an extremely rare occurrence. But when it does 
happen, it causes such significant results that the astrologer is at quite a 
loss to determine the reason for important circumstances if he is not 
aware of this condition. It should also be noted that Rahu and Ketu 
(known as the Moon's nodes in Western astrology) normally move back- 
wards, and it is when they become stationary direct or travel in forward 
motion that they become very powerful. The forward motion for Rahu and 
Ketu is not at all a rare occurrence and therefore the ephemeris must be 
consulted for each and every horoscope. Regarding the stationary direct 
status, astrologers should be aware that a planet moves very slowly for 1 
or 2 days preceding and following the stationary direct point. At such 
times the particular planet is also enormously powerful. 

In summing up the matter of retrogrades, it should be understood 
that this issue is not terribly complicated. Quite simply, the malefics Mars 
and Saturn, when retrograde, give generally good results to the house 
they occupy. The benefics Venus, Jupiter, and Mercury, when in reverse 
motion, are weakened and less capable of producing benefits but are still 
positive forces. Most importantly, any house ruled by a retrograde planet, 
whether benefic or malefic, is greatly weakened or spoiled. The significa- 
tions of the planet are naturally also weakened. Rahtt and Ketu, when 
moving in direct motion, are powerful, and any planet, when stationary 
direct, is extraordinarily energized. The Sun and the Moon, of course, 
never appear retrograde. 


HOUSE KARAKAS—HOUSE INDICATORS 


A house karaka is a planet which by its very nature corresponds to 
the significations of a particular house. For example, the benefit Jupiter 
promotes luck and fortune, and therefore has a great deal to do with 
money. Since the 2nd house rules wealth, Jupiter becomes the karaka for 
that house. There are, of course, other matters connected to the 2nd, e.g., 
speech, education, etc., and since Jupiter is the karaka, it will have a 
strong bearing on those affairs even if there appears to be no connection. 
For example, to find out about a person's mother one must analyze the 
4th house and its karakas, the Moon, and Mercury. While the Moon is 
perfectly logical as an indicator of mother, Mercury—the planet of intellec- 
tual functions—seems totally unreasonable in this regard. Yet it does in 
fact have a recognizable influence and must be considered if a thorough 
and accurate delineation is to be rendered. 


Because there are so many details and complexities in analyzing a 
horoscope, it is very easy to ignore the house karakas. This is a mistake, 
however, the effects of which may be dearly felt. Karakas should always be 
kept in mind, and they are often the reason for specific statements made 
by ancient Hindu sages in describing a planet in a house. For example, 
many sages assert that if the Sun is in the 12th house, the person will be 
sinful. Since neither the Sun nor the 12th house relates to morals or good 
deeds, the only explanation is that the Sun, being the karaka of the 9th— 
the house of religion—when posited in the evil 12th house spoils the reli- 
gious nature of the person, thus creating sinful tendencies. Therefore, 
without an awareness of the house karakas, many scriptural declarations 
will appear quite absurd. 


Above is a horoscope format indicating house karakas. The 1st 
house is noted by a diagonal line, and for the sake of simplicity a natural 
horoscope is used, so Aries is the ascendant. 


KUJADOSHA—MARS AFFLICTION 
AFFECTING MARRIED LIFE 


Mars in the 1st house, unless posited in Aries. 

Mars in the 4th, unless posited in Scorpio. 

Mars in the 7th, unless posited in Capricorn or Pisces. 
Mars in the 8th, unless posited in Cancer. 

Mars in the 12th, unless posited in Sagittarius. 


MMMMM 


Kujadosha, or Mars affliction, is an astrological condition which 
negatively affects a person's married life and domestic harmony. It is also 
one of the few astrological terms familiar to the Indian public. It occurs 
when Mars is in the Ist, 4th, 7th, 8th, or 12th house unless it is 
posited in a sign designated as an exception for that particular house. The 
reason Kujadosha is so well known in India is that nearly all parents 
there consult an astrologer before arranging a marriage for their child. 
This is done, to a great extent, in order to find out if the condition exists 
so they may take measures to neutralize the problem before it has a 
chance to create misery. The effect of Kujadosha is to cause the person to 
be somehow victimized in his marriage. This can, of course, occur in any 
number of ways, but ultimately one is likely to end up divorced and 
generally through no obvious fault of one's own. The person will also 
have to endure hardships in the marriage generated by the spouse. 


The way out of this problem is for a person with Kujadosha to 
many another who also has it. A person with Kujadosha does not have 
the nature to victimize his spouse, and therefore if both partners have the 
condition, its effect is neutralized. This is a simple procedure in India, 
where, until only very recently, all marriages were arranged at an early 
age. However, for Westerners Kujadosha presents a major obstacle be- 
cause of the way the condition works in relation to our culture, where a 
person chooses his own spouse. The mechanics of Kujadosha are such 
that it causes a person to be attracted to a partner who by his very nature 
cannot blend or function compatibly for any great length of time with 
that person. Therefore, one is quite simply at the mercy of his fate. Yet 
perhaps the most significant problem is that a person with Kujadosha 
will not feel much physical attraction or any special chemistry for another 
who also has the condition. Therefore, even with the knowledge of this 
situation, a Westerner is destined for trouble unless he is wise or patient 
enough to find a mate who also has Kujadosha, even though the great 
excitement most people seek may be missing. 


Kujadosha (also known as Mangaldosha, since Mangal is another 
name for Mars) is a reliable astrological indicator and often reveals which 
partner out of a divorced couple was most put upon, deceived, or betrayed. 


It should also be mentioned that there are astrologers who consider 
the condition to occur when Mars is in the 2nd house rather than the 
1st. The author does not agree with this school of thought, especially 
since Mars in the 1st negatively aspects the 7th, which is the house of 
matriage. 


UPAYES—ANTIDOTES FOR PLANETARY AFFLICTIONS— 
(GEMSTONES & MANTRAS) 


The gem for the Sun is red ruby. 

The gem for the Moon is pearl. 

The gem for Mars is red coral. 

The gem for Mercury is green emerald. 

The gem for Jupiter is topaz or yellow sapphire. 

The gem for Venus is diamond. 

The gem for Saturn is blue sapphire. 

The gem for Rahu is gomed or hessonite (honey colored form of agate). 
The gem for Ketu is cat's eye or chrysoberyl (not tiger eye). 


As old as the system of Hindu predictive astrology is, so are the 
antidotes given by the ancient enlightened sages to neutralize the harm- 
ful effects caused by the planets. In the same way Western astrologers give 
advice to their clients on how to deal with limitations, problems, or com- 
plexes as revealed through the horoscope, Hindu astrologers are also anx- 
ious to contribute to the well-being of their fellow man. However, since 
what the Hindu astrologers uncover are actual events and situations, 
what they have to offer are practical ways to avoid negative occurrences 
rather than psychological or humanistic counseling. Although there are 
many procedures employed by the Hindus for this purpose, what is now 
discussed are 2 of the most basic forms of antidotes: gemstones and man- 
tras. Regarding the effectiveness of such procedures, little can be said 
except that the methods have withstood the test of time and are still very 
widely practiced. It is common in India for a person to be wearing 3 or 4 
pieces of jewelry with different gemstones which have been prescribed by 
a local astrologer. 

It is perhaps as difficult to comprehend why or how the wearing 
of a stone can profoundly affect a person's life as it is to understand why the 
position of the stars at the moment of a person's birth should have such 
an effect on his entire life. But logically speaking, if planets can have a 
powerful effect, then why not stones also? The explanation regarding 
these antidotes is that by wearing the stone ruled by a specific planet, a 
person strengthens that particular energy in his being. For example, if in 
a horoscope Mercury is in a bad house, in its fallen sign, or aspected by 
several malefics, then one should wear a green emerald to give power to 
Mercury and thereby lend support to the specific significations it rules in 
the person's life. The stone may be worn throughout the whole life, but it 
is especially crucial to wear it during any dasa or bhukti (period or sub- 


period) of the planet and during the year when Mercury gives its full 
effects. It is advisable that the gem be of the finest quality affordable, the 
larger the better, and it is most effective when touching the skin. Most 
people set these stones in rings, and some astrologers make pendants, 
bangles, or breastplates with the various different stones which corres- 
pond to a person's afflicted planets. Since planets also rule certain metals, 
one may set the stones in silver if the Moon is afflicted, gold for the Sun, 
etc. 


A word of caution is necessary, however. By strengthening the 
energy of a malefic planet which is conjunct with or aspecting another 
planet, there is danger of harming that other planet. For example, if there 
is a conjunction of Mars and Saturn, one would be ill-advised to wear a 
stone for Mars alone, as its power would grow and thus harm Saturn and 
its significations more than it already is by its association with Mars. 
However, if the person in consideration is coming to a Mars period, then 
he is in danger of reaping negative effects due to Saturn's malefic aspect, 
and it is then appropriate to strengthen Mars. When the Mars period is 
finished, the stone should be removed. Care should be taken in this mat- 
ter, for just as relief may be gained, so destruction may be caused if the 
wrong stones are worn. Below is a sample chart analyzed for use of gems. 
Also, a table is given indicating when each planet gives its full effects. The 
dasa bhuktis must of course be calculated and the proper stone worn 
when necessary. 


WHEN PLANETS ; 16th year (age 15-16). 
GIVE THEIR Jupiter 22nd year (age 21-22). 
FULL EFFECTS ee ee 24th year (age 23-24). 
Wes 25th year (age 24-25). 

Mars 28th year (age 27-28). 

Mercury 32nd year (age 31-32). 

piper 36th year (age 35-36). 

Ketu 42nd year (age 41-42). 


48th year (age 47-48). 
For details of this system see "Maturity of Planets" on page 237. 
SAMPLE HOROSCOPE 


The most severely afflicted planets in the above horoscope are Mer- 
cury, Mars, and Saturn. Mercury is harmed because it is in an evil 
house—the 6th—and is powerfully aspected by 2 malefics, Mars and 
Saturn. These 2 aspects are very close by degree and are therefore all the 
more destructive. The person may wear a green emerald to strengthen 
Mercury, and he may wear this gem throughout the entire life with no ill 
effects to any other planets. Indeed, the stronger Mercury becomes, the 
more able it is to benefit Mars and Saturn by its aspect on them. If the 
person takes no precautions, the greater will be the problems regarding 
the significations of Mercury, the 6th, 2nd, and Ilth houses, since those 
are the houses owned and occupied by the afflicted planet. Especially dur- 
ing any Mercury dasa or bhukti will the troubles occur. As Mercury is so 
badly marred, the chanting of the appropriate mantra just prior to or 
during a Mercury period or sub-period is highly recommended. And at the 
age of 31 to 32 when Mercury gives its full effects this would be 
appropriate. 


Mars is also extremely weak and afflicted. First of all, it is in its 
fallen sign—Cancer. Secondly, it is in the last degree of a sign. Next, it is 
in the evil 12th house. And finally, it is very powerfully aspected by 
Saturn, a malefic. The only positive influence at all is the aspect Mars 
receives from Mercury. Therefore, the significations of Mars, the 12th, 
4th, and 9th houses are all harmed. 


In this case, to strengthen Mars by the use of a gem is a very deli- 
cate matter, because if Mars becomes powerful, then the planets aspected 
by Mars (Mercury and Saturn) will suffer. Therefore, the only time to wear 
the Mars gem, red coral, should be during a Mars dasa or bhuktior at the 
age of 27 to 28, when that planet is realizing its effects. It should also be 
noted that Mars is so badly afflicted that the use of a mantra just before 
or during any Mars period or sub-period is advisable. 


The last major concern is Saturn, which is also very weak and 
afflicted. The planet is in the 12th house, in an enemy's sign, and power- 
fully aspected by the malefic Mars. Therefore negative effects may be 
expected for Saturn, the 12th, 6th, and 7th houses. However, Saturn can- 
not be strengthened without disturbing the planets it aspects, Mercury 
and Mars. For this reason, the Saturn gem—blue sapphire, should only be 
worn when Saturn reaps its effects: either during the age of 35-36, or 
during any Saturn dasa or bhukti. Saturn also, is so weak and besieged 
that the wearing of a gem will not likely be sufficient to reduce the great 
harm indicated. Therefore, the use of a mantra is also recommended. 


The only other planet in this horoscope which might need help is 
Venus, which is of an extremely mixed disposition. On the positive side 
it is in the 9th, the best house in a horoscope. It is also very powerfully 
aspected by Jupiter, almost to the exact degree. However, it is weakened 


by its position in a very early degree and, the aspects from 2 malefics, 
Rahu and Saturn. Although these aspects are relatively weak by degree, 
they nonetheless have their effect. And to strengthen Venus certainly 
cannot harm any other planet, since Venus is a benefic. Therefore a dia- 
mond may be worn if desired, especially in any Venus dasa or bhukti. 


Regarding the question of which metal to set these stones in, it 
would be best to use gold, since the Sun is also moderately afflicted (it is 
aspected by Mars and occupies an enemy's sign) and would thus benefit 
from the metal it rules. 


MANTRAS 


Astrological mantras are Sanskrit phrases, the effects of which 
(when chanted) are known. The meaning of each mantra is given below, 
and because they appear quite devotional, one could think that they work 
due to the faith of the person practicing. However, this is not the case. 
It is primarily the vibration of the sounds on the human nervous system 
which will cause the subtle positive effects on the person and neutralize 
the harmful energy indicated by an afflicted planet. 


Sanskrit is the language of the Vedas, the Indian body of knowledge 
which predates religion and is said to have been cognized by ancient 
enlightened beings. It is revered as a pure language because there is 
essentially no difference between a particular word and the object it des- 
cribes. This is called "name and form." These prayers of a sort invoke the 
grace of a planetary energy to lessen its negative effects as revealed in the 
horoscope. 


Mantras are commonly used in India,and have also withstood the 
test of time. Regarding proof of their power, it is simply up to the 
reader to test these practices and draw conclusions based upon 
experience. It is noted that Indians generally accept such matters on faith 
and also have great patience, the latter being a necessity for the use of 
mantras. Their behavior is not without reason, as anyone having been to 
India for any length of time may understand. 


Mantras, in India, are not closely guarded secrets despite what 
many people think. They are widely available in common print. In recent 
years, as Hindu teachers have come out to the West to spread their 
knowledge, many have through experience seen fit to attach a great pri- 
vacy to the techniques they have given out. The West is an entirely differ- 
ent culture than the East, and their actions were likely quite appropriate. 
However, it should not be concluded that because these mantras are in 
print they are not effective, ancient, or genuine. They are a standard body 
of knowledge passed on from generation to generation. Many mantras 
considered highly esoteric or secretive in the West are found quite openly 


Indian scriptures on the subject. 


Regarding the procedure of chanting, one may be sitting, standing, 
or walking while practicing, but the best effects are gained when the 
chanting is done softly and gently. Although the instruction of chanting 
does not include dwelling on the meaning of the mantra, the process 
should be a conscious one. During the practice one may notice his atten- 
tion easily focusing on the vibration of the sound within the body. A very 
peaceful and relaxing state will result when this is done properly. The 
chanting should be smooth and repeated somewhat in a monotone to 
fully appreciate the vibrations, but the rate of speed may be as quick as 
desired. 


Each mantra has a designated number of times it must be repeated. 
Although some peace of mind may immediately result from chanting, the 
desired effects connected to the significations of the planet and the 
houses that it rules are supposed to be realized after the allotted 
number of chantings have been performed. In India, beads similar to a 
rosary are used to count the chanting. During the practice, one bead is 
kept between the thumb and middle finger to keep track of the number 
of repetitions. The most desirable beads, according to many Hindus, are 
rudrakshas, which are found in India or Nepal and are considered 
somewhat sacred. The next best are tulsi beads, which are also sacred 
but easier to come by. A string of 108 beads is used for the counting, 
and one bead, known as the Guru bead, is slightly protruded from the 
others so one knows when the mantra has been chanted 108 times. This 
is called one mala. At the conclusion of one mala, the person either 
stops or turns back, so the Guru bead is never crossed. One may chant 
as many or as few malas as desired during each session. In any case, it is the 
chanting, not the beads, which is important. Therefore, any means of 
counting will do. A rosary, though, is probably the simplest way. 


NOTE—Mantras should be given to a person during the waxing phase of the Moon and on 
the day ruled by the planet whose mantra is employed. E.g., give out a Sun mantra on 
Sunday and let the person begin chanting on that day. The ideal time to chant one of these 
mantras is in the early morning when all is quiet. 


MANTRA FOR THE SUN—to be chanted 77000 times. 


Japa kusuma-satikariatit ka, Syapeyark mali-dyutim 
tamo-rith sarva-pdpa-ghnath pranato ‘smi divakaram 


PRONOUNCIATION 
Japa koosooma sankarsham kashya-peeyam maha-jutim, tamorim sarva 
pahpagnam pranato smee deevahkaram. 

Let us chant the glories of the Sun god, whose beauty rivals that of 
a flower. I bow down to him, the greatly effulgent son of Kasyapa, who is 
the enemy of darkness and destroyer of all sins. 


MANTRA FOR THE MOON—to be chanted 11,000 times. 


dadhi-garikha-tusetrabhariz ksirodarnava-sambhavam 
namami :sainctrir soma& sarhbhor mukata-bhasarram 
PRONOUNCIATION 
Dadee shanka tusha-rabam ksheero-darnava sambhavam na-mahmee 
shasheenam somam samboor mookuta booshanam. 


I offer my obeisances to the Moon god, whose complexion resembles 
curds, the whiteness of conchshells, and snow. He is the ruling deity of 
the soma rasa born from the Ocean of Milk, and he serves as the orna- 
ment on top of the head of Lord Shambhu. 


MANTRA FOR MARS—to be chanted 10,000 times. 


dharatri-garbha-sambhatarh vidyut-Ktinti-samaprabha- 
kumarariz Sakti-hastariz ca marigalariz prarramamy aham 
PRONOUNCIATION 
Daranee garbha sambootam vidyut-kahntee sama-prabam koomahram 
shaktee hastam-cha mangalam prana-mam mya-ham. 


I offer my obeisances to Sri Mangala, god of the planet Mars, who 
was born from the womb of the earth goddess. His brilliant effulgence is 
like that of lightning, and he appears as a youth carrying a spear in his 
hand. 


MANTRA FOR MERCURY—to be chanted 4,000 times. 


priyaagava-gulikagyarii raperra pratimambudam 
saumyarh saumya-gunopetarh kith budharh prariamamy aham 
PRONOUNCIATION 
Preeyangava guleekash yam roopeyna prateemahm budam, sowmyam 
sowmya goono-peytam tam boodam prana-mahm mya-ham. 
I bow down to Buddha, god of the planet Mercury, whose face is 


like a fragrant globe of the priyangu herb and whose beauty matches 
that of a lotus flower. He is most gentle, possessing all attractive qualities. 


MANTRA FOR JUPITER—to be chanted 19,000 times. 


devancith ca rsinCtrir ca gururh karleana-sannibham 
buddbhi-bhatarit tri-lokegarh fruit namami brhaspatim 


PRONOUNCIATION 
Deva-nancha rishee-nancha gurum-kanchana saneebam boodee bootam 
treelo-keysham tam na-mamee brihas-pateem. 

I bow down to Brihaspati, god of the planet Jupiter. He is the spiri- 


tual master of all the demigods and sages. His complexion is golden, and 
he is full of intelligence. He is the controlling lord of all three worlds. 


MANTRA FOR VENUS—to be chanted 16,000 times. 


pima-kurida-mrnCelabham daityanam paramarh gurum 
sarva-kistra-pravakiCtram bhargavaril prattameimy aham 


PRONOUNCIATION 
Heema-kunda mri-nala-bam deyt-yanam para-mam gurum sarva-shastra 
pravak-taram barga-vam prana-mam mya-ham. 


I offer my obeisances to the descendant of Bhrigu Muni (i.e., Venus), 
whose complexion is white like a pond covered with ice. He is the su- 
preme spiritual master of the demoniac enemies of the demigods, and has 
spoken to them all the revered scriptures. 


MANTRA FOR SATURN—to be chanted 23,000 times. 


nildrijana-samabhasath rani-putrarh yamOgrajam che 
martarida-sambhataril tarn namctmi ganaigcat 


PRONOUNCIATION 
Nee-lanjana sama-basam ravee-putram yema-grajam chaya-martanda sam- 
bootam tam na-mahmee sanee-charam. 

I bow down to slow-moving Saturn, whose complexion is dark blue 


like nilanjana ointment. The elder brother of Lord Yamaraja, he is born 
from the Sun-god and his wife Chaya. 


MANTRA FOR RAHU—to be chanted 18,000 times. 


ardha-keiyarit mahrh-viryarh candrciditya-vimardan 
sirhhikci-garbha-sambhitam tam rahum pranametmy ah 


PRONOUNCIATION 
Arda-kayam maha-viryam chandra ditya veemar-danam seeng-hee-ka 
garba sambootam tam rahum prana-mam mya-ham. 


I offer my obeisances to Rahu, born from the womb of Simhika, 
who has only half a body yet possesses great power, being able to subdue 
the Sun and the Moon. 


MANTRA FOR KETU—to be chanted 17,000 times. 


palasa-puspa-sankasam taraka-graha-mastakam raudr 
raudratmakam ghoram tam ketum pranamamvy ah 


PRONOUNCIATION 
palasha-aushpa-sankasam taraka-grahu masta-kam rowdram row-drat 
makam goram tam keytoom prana-mam mya-ham. 

I offer my obeisances to the violent and fearsome Ketu, who is 
endowed with the potency of Lord Shiva. Resembling in his complexion 
the flower of a palasa plant, he serves as the head of the stars and 
planets. 


MRITYUNJAYA MANTRA TO BE USED FOR PHYSICAL OR MENTAL 
ILLNESSES— 
To be chanted one mala (i.e., 108 phrase repetitions) per day for 16 
weeks. 


Om trambakam yaja-mahey shoo-gandi pushtee var-danam oordvar 
roo-koomee ban-danam rityoor ra-makshee mam-roo-tata. 


PLANETS IN THE HOUSES 


In this next section, before each planet in its house is delineated, 
the placement of the ruler of the house is analyzed. This is because the 
condition of the ruler reveals at least 50% of the house analysis. It is also 
because rulerships are so crucial in their effect that any information 
given about a planet in a house must be considered in the light of what 
kind of energy it brings by virtue of its rulership. For example, when read- 
ing a planet-in-house description of a planet which is a yogakaraka, it is 
best to read the section titled UCHCHA & SWAKSHETRA. This is because, 
since the, planet carries such good energy by rulership, it will function 
similarly to how it would in its own or exaltation sign. Furthermore, not 
only should it be noted whether a planet carries positive or negative 
energy but also what house characteristics it embodies. For example, the 
ruler of the 10th house carries career energy, and this must be 
included in the delineation. Also, the following descriptions do not include 
aspects received from other planets or whether a planet is in the house of 
a friend or enemy, both of which will profoundly affect the outcome of the 
analysis. There can be no real accuracy without consideration of these 
crucial matters. 


Because so many variables are involved, there is no such thing as a 
definitive delineation of a planet in a house in Hindu astrology. This is 
true despite the fact that the ancient sages have written their descrip- 
tions as empirical statements of fact. It is this author's opinion that by 
giving out as factual statements what are truly only possibilities, the 
ancient sages were actually habituating their astrologers to making pre- 
dictions. This predictive process is unique and rather unlike Western 
astrology, where free will is unquestionable and the main focus is the 
delineation of a person's talents, liabilities, and tempermaent, etc. The 
art of prediction is a risky business for an astrologer, who is subject to 
being proved flatly wrong. But because of the style of writings he has 
learned from, the comfort with the process is natural. And so it is for this 
reason that the explanations which follow are often given as absolute facts. 
But it must be understood that the descriptions are only in fact 
possibilities, of which some will be accurate and some will not, depending 
on the innumerable factors involved which must be blended and 
analyzed. 


Within the following descriptions are sometimes reported the opin- 
ions of the ancient sages, which in many cases have yet to be proved or 


3 neations mention such items as holy pilgrimages and experiences with 
Gurus, etc., which are mostly applicable to Easterners. These should be 
translated to feasible possibilities for the person of a Western culture. As 
always, discrimination and common sense are necessary. 


Finally, retrograde planets in houses will, in most cases, give very 
different results than the following descriptions, which are for planets in 
normal forward motion. For an understanding of this matter please see 
"Retrogrades" on page 63. 


NOTE—Regarding which is of greater importance, the ruler of a house or its occupy- 
ing planets, please see the note on the bottom of page 53. 


1ST HOUSE 
THANU BRAVA—HOUSE OF THE BODY 


The 1st house corresponds to a fire sign and is therefore a house of 
dharma (duty or life purpose). 


Dharma, birth, personal appearance, well-being, fame, character, 
disposition, tendencies, prosperity, strength, longevity, health, will power, 
conduct, dignity, self-esteem, face, head, happiness, early childhood, and 
start in life. 


The 1st house is extremely important, since it is the distinguishing 
factor between all the people born on the same day. It is the most personal 
part of a horoscope. It shows how one will be received by the world, 
whether one can be recognized for his or her accomplishments and gain 
fame or status. It is the personality, one's temperament, disposition, and 
tendencies. It reveals a person's confidence, self-esteem, and self-love. 


The planet ruling the 1st indicates the nature of the personality 
and one's tendencies to a large extent. If the first house happens to be 
Libra, which is owned by Venus, then the person may be artistically 
inclined, romantic, passionate, etc. If the first house is Capricorn, then 
Saturn is affecting the disposition and the person will be of a serious 
temperament, inclined towards business or career matters. 


The first house is an auspicious house, a good house. Wherever the 
ruler of the first is placed will be an area of vitality and interest. Also, the 
affairs of that house will flourish. However, the nature and condition of 
the planet and signs involved must be considered. Mars or Saturn will not 
produce the same benefits as Venus or Jupiter, and as malefics they may 


actually cause harm. Regarding signs, Mercury as ascendant lord in Virgo 
would be completely different than in Pisces. In Virgo, Mercury is exalted 
and gives excellent results, while the opposite is true in Pisces, where it is 
fallen. Further, if the planet considered is aspected by several malefics, it 
cannot give good results. The key in astrological work is to consider the 
numerous influences involved in any issue. 


If the ascendant lord is placed in an auspicious house, then 1st 
house significations likewise flourish. 


The karaka, or indicator, of the first house is the Sun. 
Ruler of the 1st house placed in the: 


1st HOUSE 

Planet in swakshetra (own house). Happy childhood, good start in 

life, born into wealthy or refined family, strong, healthy, powerful, well- 
respected, strong dharma, happy, may be a leader, increased longevity. 


2nd HOUSE 

Wealthy, good education, learned, interest and possible career in 

education, happy family life, honest, good speech, good speaker, interest 
in financial matters. 


3rd HOUSE 

Benefits from brothers and sisters, courageous, adventurous, own 

efforts meet with success, strong will, perseverence, strong desire nature. 
Interest and possible career in music, dance, or drama. 


4th HOUSE 

Person acquires own home, land, cars, boats, etc., plentiful fixed 

assets, good status or fame, respected, happiness from mother, gets 

ancestral property, success obtaining educational degree, increased lon- 
gevity, good health, happy, spiritual nature or interest in moksha. 


Sth HOUSE 
Lord of a dharma house in another dharma house is auspicious in 
creating strong dharma, intelligent, learned, successful investments, 
wealthy, happy, fortunate, respected, high status or fame, faith and devo- 
tion to God, knowledge of mantras, enjoys religious practices, high mor- 
als, refined qualities, person of merit, humble, gains from government or 
political people, strong credit from past incarnation, destined to follow 
same path as last life. This position increases longevity. 


6th HOUSE 
Health problems, gains no respect, hardships, longevity is decreased, 
miserly, unhappy childhood, poor start in life, tendency to be accused. 


charged in court cases if other indications allow, ties to maternal uncle, 
hard worker. Interested in special diets, medical or healing arts, and self- 
improvement techniques. Job is of vital interest, good earning ability, 
wealth comes slowly and after hard work but does come. 


7th HOUSE 

Marriage of passion. Beautiful, wealthy, or devoted spouse. Benefits 

from spouse's family. Powerful, fortunate, and respected since ascendant 

lord in 7th aspects its own house. Strong sexual nature, strong desire 
nature. Long journeys or residence in foreign countries. 


8th HOUSE 
Poor health, weak vitality, short life, poor self-image, no self-respect, 
hardships, suffering, unhappy childhood, poor start in life, tendency to be 
accused, charged in court cases if other indications agree, possibility of 
accidents or long-term illnesses, large debts, gains no respect or fame, 
benefits from marriage partner's money, gains from insurance compan- 
ies, Success in occult subjects and yoga. Tendency towards spiritual life, 
asceticism, and moksha. 


9th HOUSE 

Lord of a dharma house in another dharma house is auspicious. 

Excellent luck, wealthy, fortunate, prosperous, gains from father, receives 

paternal property, high morals, religious-minded, charitable, highly 
respected or famous, healthy and powerful, long life, strong dharma. 


10th HOUSE 
Respected or famous, good career, good reputation and status, 
healthy, powerful, long life, successful dharma, wealthy. 


11th HOUSE 

Benefits from eldest sibling, plentiful opportunities, success in 

achieving major goals and desires, wealthy, good earning ability, strong 
desire nature. 


12th HOUSE 
Many hardships, unhappy, much suffering, large debts, little confi- 
dence, bad self-image, poor health, low vitality, gains no respect or fame, 
unhappy childhood, poor start in life, moves away from birthplace, ten- 
dency to be accused, charged in court cases if other indications agree, 
may be periods of confinement (hospital, jail, monastery, etc.), good sex 
life, may live in “unknown places" (i.e., far-away land such as India, Africa, 
etc.). Tendency towards spiritual life, asceticism, or moksha. Success with 
meditation or yoga, may perform charitable deeds with no view towards 
rewards in this life, auspicious for afterlife (1.e., attains heaven), little con- 
cern for worldly life—excellent position for self-realization and 
enlightenment. 


PLANETS IN THE 1st HOUSE 


The 1st house, or ascendant, reveals one's most personal character- 
istics and tendencies. Therefore a planet in the ascendant will affect a 
person's physical stature, health, and general disposition or 
temperament. It indicates how one is received by the world and to what 
extent recognition or fame is possible. It is the primary factor regarding 
confidence, self-esteem, and self-acceptance. Also, the significations any 1st 
house planet rules will be prominent in the person's life. For better or for 
worse will depend upon the condition of the planet—whether well- 
aspected, weak, strong, etc. 


If there are many planets occupying or aspecting the 1st house, 
there will be a large ego. The person will not go unnoticed in life. If the 1st 
house is afflicted, the person will be victimized in life more often than 
normal. His faults will be criticized, he will receive many traffic tickets, be 
humiliated by peers, etc. 


Naturally, rulerships must be taken into consideration. For example, 
Mars is a malefic planet and will cause harm when occupying the 1st 
house; however, for a Leo ascendant Mars rules the 9th house and there- 
fore becomes a yogakaraka, or functional benefic, and gives good results. 


The karaka, or indicator, of the 1st house is the Sun. Final judge- 
ment of 1st house matters should not be made without consideration of 
the house karaka as well as the lord of the house. 


RAW_THE SUN IN THE 1st HOUSE 


The Sun, being cruel and malefic, in the 1st house gives a hot con- 
stitution, meaning an irritable or somewhat angry temperament. The per- 
son may be impatient or unkind unless there is an aspect from a benefic. 
The heat of the Sun will burn or harm the confidence and self-esteem. 
This will not be obvious to everyone, since the Sun in the ascendant also 
gives pride, courage, power, and a good deal of assertiveness. There is no 
shyness to this placement, and there will be a strong ego. The person will 
be ambitious and desirous of a position of authority. The relationship 
with the father will be close and rather significant. There may be an 
attraction to government jobs. Hindu scriptures state that there will be 
defective eyesight, but such is the case only if the Sun is afflicted by 
aspect or sign placement. The Sun unafflicted gives good health and a 
strong constitution. This is generally a good position for success and 
respect from others, as the person presents himself quite well. 


UCHCHA & SWAKSHETRA (exalted & own house)—If the Sun is in 
Aries or Leo in the 1st house, the person will be highly respected or 
famous. He will be learned and intelligent. He will also be powerful, digni- 


defeat his enemies and competitors. His father will be long-lived, powerful, 
and successful. The person will have been born into a refined or wealthy 
family and has had a good start in life. 


NEECHA (fallen)—If the Sun is in Libra in the 1st house, it is very 
bad for confidence and self-esteem. The person will be fighting an uphill 
struggle for self-love or self-acceptance. There will be health problems and 
poor eyesight. The blood may be weak or impure. It will be very difficult to 
gain recognition or respect from others. The person will be often accused 
and may be charged in court cases if other indications agree. The person 
may be of angry temperament and capable of lashing out at others in a 
fierce way. The father's life is filled with suffering, and he is unsuccessful 
and short-lived. 


Since the Sun is exalted in Aries, it also flourishes in Scorpio—the 
other sign ruled by Mars. 


The Sun gives its full effects in the 22nd year. Unless it rules good 
houses or is well-aspected, there will likely be difficulties related to the 1st 
house at that time. 


CHANDRA THE MOON IN THE ist HOUSE 


The Moon is the most important and personal influence of all the 
heavenly bodies. It is similar to the ascendant in this sense. If the moon 
is going towards full, it is considered a benefic. The brighter or more full 
it is, the more auspicious the influence. A waxing or waning moon is 
easily distinguished by noting the Moon's relationship to the Sun. If the 
Moon is going towards its opposition with the Sun, then it is waxing, or 
getting brighter. If it has passed its opposition with the Sun and is mov- 
ing closer to the conjunction, then it is waning, or decreasing in light. It is 
very important to consider the power and disposition of the Moon in this 
manner, for there is no comparison between a waxing Moon which has 
passed the Sun by one sign and a bright moon 5 or 6 signs away from the 
Sun. Likewise, a waning Moon which has passed its full Moon point by 1 
sign is still very bright and will give good results. In Hindu astrology a full 
Moon birth is extremely auspicious. 


WAXING MOON—TIf the waxing Moon is in the 1st house, the per- 
son will be very good-looking and have large, beautiful eyes. He will be 
highly passionate and romantic. He will also be intelligent and fond of 
mental pursuits. He will be very sociable. There will be success in profes- 
sions that deal with the public. The person will be emotional, moody, and 
sensitive. He will be attracted to places near water. The person will be very 
self-centered, since both the Moon and the ascendant are the most per- 
sonal influences in the horoscope. The personality will be magnetic and 
highly attractive to others. The person will be fortunate, respected, and 


happy. There will be good health, a strong constitution, and a long life. 
The person will be close to his mother, and the relationship may be espe- 
cially significant. There will be many comforts and luxuries. Married life is 
happy, since the Moon in the 1st aspects the 7th house. If the Moon is 
afflicted, the person may be mentally unsteady. 


WANING MOON—TIf the waning Moon is in the 1st house, the 
effects are similar to what has been given above but not as fortunate. The 
person will be good-looking, but he will be very changeable or mentally 
unstable. The waning moon does not favor intelligence as greatly as the 
bright Moon, but the person is still a perpetual thinker. The constitution 
may be weak, and there may be health problems. It is also very likely that 
the person will be selfish, self-centered, and self-indulgent. He may also be 
unhappy, poor, and not much respected, though he will not go unnoticed. 


UCHCHA & SWAKSHETRA (exalted and own house)—If the Moon 
is in Taurus or Cancer in the ascendant, the person will be beautiful, 
brilliant, respected or famous, happy, magnetic, and romantic. Married 
life will be happy. The person will have been born into a refined or wealthy 
family and has had a good start in life. If the Moon is waning, the results 
are proportionately less but still favorable. 


NEECHA (fallen)—If the Moon is in Scorpio in the Ist house, it is 
very bad, as it harms the overall tenor of the horoscope. There will be 
health problems and a weak constitution. The life is shortened consider- 
ably. There will be mental problems or a lack of stability. The person will 
be unhappy and poor. There will be a bad relationship with the mother, 
and the mother herself suffers or dies early. The person will be extremely 
self-centered and self-indulgent. Married life is not enhanced by the fallen 
Moon's aspect to the 7th. There is no confidence or self-love. There may be 
menstrual disorders. 


Since the Moon is exalted in Taurus, it is well-placed in Libra—the 
other sign ruled by Venus. The scriptures have also declared Aries a fine 
place for the Moon. 


The Moon gives its full effects in the 24th year, and at that time 
there will be benefits regarding 1st house affairs. The opposite is the 
case if the Moon is waning, afflicted, or evil because it rules bad houses. 


KUJA—MARS IN THE 1st HOUSE 


Mars, being a malefic, is poorly placed in the ascendant. The person 
will be aggressive, independent, and of a rash or angry temperament. 
There may be recklessness and a proneness to accidents. Although 
there is confidence and assertiveness, Mars gives an unhappy disposition, 
and self-love may be lacking. The constitution is strong, but the body 


have to endure injuries, broken bones, scars, or chronic physical ailments. & 
There may be diseases of the blood. The person will be brave, courageous, 
and adventurous. There is an argumentativeness, and all relationships 
suffer. The person is very sexual and will find monogamy difficult. He 
will be liberal, independent, and hot-tempered. There will be ability in 
all kinds of technical work (engineering, mechanics, accounting, law, 
etc.). The person will enjoy competition and excel in sports. He easily 
defeats his enemies and competitors. The person may be attracted to 
military work. He may desire to be a leader or commander and will 
succeed if Mars is well disposed. This position indicates Kujadosha, or 
Mars affliction. Therefore, married life and domestic harmony are spoiled 
unless the person marries another who also has a Kujadosha horoscope. 
The exception to this rule is if Mars in the 1st house is in Aries. (For 
further details see page 67). 


UCHCHA & SWAKSHETRA (exalted and own house)—If Mars is in 
Capricorn, Aries, or Scorpio in the 1st house, the person will be very suc- 
cessful and respected. He will be wealthy, happy, fortunate, and enjoy 
many pleasures. He will be courageous and have a good disposition. He 
may be famous as a leader or commander. The person was born into a 
refined or prosperous family and has had a good start in life. 


NEECHA (fallen)—If Mars is in Cancer in the ascendant, the person 
will have many health problems. He will suffer from gas or indigestion. 
His blood may be impure. He will not care for his appearance and will not 
be good-looking. He will be often accused and may be charged in court 
cases if other indications agree. He will be cruel-hearted and argumenta- 
tive. He will gain no honor or fame. Confidence is lacking and there is very 
little self-respect. The person will be blunt, tactless, gross, and insensitive. 


NOTE—Mars is an exceptionally good planet for Cancer ascendant, as it rules the 5th and 
10th houses and therefore becomes yogakaraka ( special union maker). So, even though 
fallen, it will give certain benefits, as stated in the section on rulerships. 


Since Mars is exalted in Capricorn, it is also well-placed in 
Aquarius—the other sign ruled by Saturn. 


Mars gives its full effects in the 28th year. Unless it rules good 
houses or is well placed by sign there will be problems relating to 1st 
house matters at that time. 


BUDDHA MERCURY IN THE 1st HOUSE 


Mercury gets dik bala, or directional strength, in the 1st house. 
Therefore this is its best position. However, consideration of aspects is 
crucial, since Mercury is adaptable and becomes a malefic if in the pres- 
ence of other malefics. With Mercury in the 1st, the person is youthful in 
appearance. He will be intelligent, learned, and knowledgeable. He may 
be a writer or take up any career relating to communications. He will 


witty and ingenius. He is an excellent speaker and will be very talkative. 
There will be talent or interest in math, poetry, fine arts, or astrology. The 
person is handsome, respected, healthy, and long-lived. Married life is 
happy and comes at an early age. The person will be skilled in languages 
He will be happy, friendly, and charming. He will also be kindhearted and 
forgiving. He may be a twin, as this is one of the most common indica- 
tions of such. If Mercury is afflicted, the person will be nervous, excitable, 
and mentally unstable. He will be conceited, constantly bragging, and 
lacking in real confidence. 


UCHCHA & SWAKSHETRA (exalted and own sign)—If Mercury is 
in Virgo or Gemini in the ascendant, there will be great intelligence, and 
the benefits listed above are heightened. The person will be beautiful, and 
will enjoy honor or fame. He will be virtuous, fortunate, and wealthy. He 
will have been born to a wealthy or refined family. 


NEECHA (fallen)—If Mercury is in Pisces in the 1st, there will be no 
confidence or self-respect. The person is nervous, excitable, mentally 
unstable, or of a wavering mind. There will be a struggle for self-accep- 
tance throughout life. The person will be poor, unfortunate, weak, and 
unhealthy. Longevity is decreased and married life suffers. 


Mercury gives its full effects in the 32nd year, and at that time, 
there will be benefits regarding 1st house affairs unless the planet is 
afflicted or evil due to the houses it rules. 


GURU_JUPITER IN THE 1st HOUSE 


Jupiter gets dik bala, or directional strength, making this its best 
position. If Jupiter is in the ascendant, it is a tremendous benefit to the 
horoscope. This is considered the most fortunate placement of any planet 
in a house. The person is happy, healthy, long-lived, and respected or 
famous. He will be lucky, beautiful, and of a spiritual nature. There will be 
happiness from children, the marriage partner, and the father, as the 5th, 
7th, and 9th houses are aspected. The person is "divinely blessed" and 
protected from suffering and all sorts of harms. He is dignified, wise, and 
performs good deeds. This is a common placement of world famous per- 
sonages and spiritual leaders. There may be a tendency to gain weight as 
life progresses. 


UCHCHA & SWAKSHETRA (exalted and own sign)—If Jupiter is in 
Cancer, Pisces, or Sagittarius in the 1st house, the good effects above are 
multiplied. Honor or fame is assured unless there are serious afflictions 
to Jupiter. Life is filled with numerous luxuries and comforts. Jupiter in 
the ascendant in one of these signs indicates a person of remarkable 
spiritual evolution. 


NEECHA (fallen)—If Jupiter is in Capricorn in the 1st, there will be 8 


allergies, liver ailments, and other health problems. The person is unhappy 
and negative. There is no honor or fame, and the person will be often 
accused. There is no appreciation of religion or spirituality, though the 
person will try to give the appearance of such. The person may be self- 
righteous and dogmatic. Longevity is decreased. The person will be poor, 
and self-esteem is lacking. 


Jupiter gives its full effects in the 16th year, and at that time there 
will be great benefits unless the planet is afflicted or rules bad houses. 


SUKRA_VENUS IN THE ist HOUSE 


If Venus is in the 1st house, the person will be happy, healthy, and 
long-lived. He will be lucky, wealthy, and respected. The person will also be 
beautiful, charming, and extremely attractive to the opposite sex. He 
will be romantic and highly passionate. He is fond of all kinds of sensual 
pleasures. Marriage comes early in life and is a great source of happiness. 
The person is blessed with luxuries and comforts. He will own many 
ornaments (jewelry). He will appreciate or make a career in music, 
dance, drama, or another art form. The person is virtuous and performs 
good deeds. He will be of a sensitive and artistic nature. Venus in any 
kendra gives a kind and forgiving nature. Hindu scriptures state that the 
person is skilled in mathematics and the art of sexual pleasures. If 
Venus is afflicted there will be sexual diseases or problems with the 
reproductive system. If Venus is yogakaraka and occupying the 1st house, 
there is a likelihood of great fame. Venus will be a yogakaraka for Virgo, 
Capricorn, and Aquarius ascendants. But Venus is fallen in Virgo and 
thus does not give such good results. 


UCHCHA & SWAKSHETRA (exalted & own sign)—If Venus is in 
Pisces, Libra, or Taurus in the 1st house, all the benefits described above 
are heightened. There will be great fame or a position of very high status. 
Artistic talent is especially pronounced. 


NEECHA (fallen)—If Venus is in Virgo in the ascendant, the 
person is timid and lacking confidence. He may have a very strong or 
nearly insatiable sex drive. There will be sexual diseases or problems with 
the reproductive system. The person is overly sensitive. He may be 
self- centered and self-indulgent. He will be constantly seeking sensual 
pleasures and may be lacking in morals. Both the character and physical 
constitution are weak. Longevity is shortened. Venus in this detrimental 
sign gives an ordinary appearance rather than its usual beauty. 


Venus is exalted in Pisces and is therefore well placed in Sagitta- 
rius, the other sign ruled by Jupiter. However, for some reason, Venus in 
Sagittarius makes the person extraordinarily sensitive in relationships 


and marriage. Certain astrologers advise a person with this placement to 
marry another with Venus in Sagittarius. 


Venus gives its full effects in the 25th year. At that time there will 
be benefits relating to 1st house affairs. It may also be a good time for 
relationships and love matters. 


SAM_SATURN IN THE 1st HOUSE 


If Saturn is in the 1st house, it is crucial to consider sign place- 
ments and aspects. As a first-rate malefic, Saturn in this position gives 
health problems, losses, delays, poverty, lack of honor or fame, miseries, 
and many ups and downs in the life. However, if it is well placed or well 
aspected, the person becomes a leader or politician of very high status. 
Saturn rules longevity, but astrologers and Hindu scriptures are at odds 
about Saturn in the ascendant on this matter. All agree that Saturn is 
well placed in Libra, Capricorn, Aquarius, and the signs ruled by Jupiter— 
Sagittarius and Pisces. These placements give a very long life. For other 
placements, Saturn gives its typical malefic effects, and good or bad 
aspects will make the difference between a short or long life. Other effects 
of Saturn in the 1st are that the person will likely be thin and have some 
sort of physical ailment involving the bones. Married life is harmed by 
Saturn's aspect on the 7th house. Saturn causes stagnation, and the per- 
son may be rather inactive. The person is also slow, serious, disciplined, 
and mature. Saturn is the farthest planet used in Hindu astrology and 
gives excellent spiritual effects regarding non-attachment. The person will 
be of an ascetic nature, caring little for worldly desires. Unless Saturn is 
well placed in one of the signs already mentioned, there will be little ambi- 
tion for any kind of recognition. Responsibility, humility, and strong mor- 
als will be a trademark of this person. As the 1st house rules birth, there 
may have been difficulties in the birth experience. The person may have 
been born a caesarean birth, his mother may have had a very long labor, or 
there may have been other complications. The intensity of such problems 
depends upon how close Saturn is to the degree of the ascendant. 


UCHCHA & SWAKSHETRA (exalted and own house)—If Saturn is 
in Libra, Capricorn, or Aquarius in the ascendant, the person will be a 
leader and obtain a very high status. He will be wealthy, intelligent, and 
virtuous. He will perform good deeds and live a long life. He will be 
extremely humble. The person will have been born into a wealthy family 
and has had a good start in life. 


NEECHA (fallen)—If Saturn is in Aries in the 1st house, the person 
is sickly and has no vitality or ambition, and his longevity is decreased. 
The person is born into a lowly family and has had a bad start in life. He 
will be unhappy. There is frustration and depression about his low posi- 
tion in life. The body is emaciated, and the person cares little about his 


appearance. There is a strong possibility that the body is deformed in 
some way. There is a terrible self-image and married life greatly suffers. 


Saturn gives its full effects in the 36th year. Unless it is well placed 
or well aspected, there will be problems relating to 1st house affairs at 
that time. 


Since Saturn is exalted in Libra, it is also well placed in Taurus— 
the other sign ruled by Venus. 


RAHU—THE NORTH NODE IN THE ist HOUSE 


NOTE—Rahu and Ketu are always exactly opposite each other in the horoscope. Therefore if 
Rahu is in the 1st, Ketu is in the 7th. 


If Rahu is in the 1st house, it is bad for domestic happiness. There 
will be constant ups and downs in the married life. Peaceful or stable 
periods are short-lived, as there is always some problem arising to be 
dealt with. Rahu, being malefic, is bad for health, longevity, and confi- 
dence. There will be a big ego, but since Rahu destroys the confidence, the 
result is a kind of egocentric, or self-indulgent, personality. There is a 
struggle throughout life for self acceptance and a positive self-image. The 
person is odd, eccentric, or out of the ordinary. He will be wealthy, as 
Rahu signifies worldly desires and benefits. He will also be inclined 
towards spiritual or occult subjects. The health problems caused by Rahu 
will be due to upset emotions or negative thinking. These illnesses will be 
difficult to diagnose and hard to cure except through diet or natural 
remedies. Rahu in the 1st will give physical strength and a strong will. 
The person defeats his enemies or competitors. The marriage partner may 
be of a spiritual or ascetic nature. He may also be devious or deceitful. 
Rahu, because it rules worldy benefits, in the 1st house often gives 
extraordinary beauty. 


UCHCHA (exalted)—Regarding Rahu and Ketu, the only placements 
agreed upon by scriptures and astrologers are Mercury's signs—Gemini 
and Virgo. Either node flourishes in both signs. If Rahu is in Gemini or 
Virgo in the 1st house (or stationary direct or in forward motion), the 
person will be honored or famous. He will be a very strong personality and 
a leader in his field. He easily gets the better of his competitors. He will be 
both wealthy and spiritual. He will have a handsome or prominant 
appearance and be intelligent. Married life will suffer in the same way as 
described above. 


NEECHA—tThere is no agreed-upon fallen position for Rahu. How- 
ever, it is poorly placed in Cancer and Leo, since it is an enemy of the Sun 
and Moon. In either of these signs, the negative effects already mentioned 
above may be heightened. 


i 


Rahu gives its full effects in the 42nd year. Unless it is well placed 
or well aspected, there may be health problems or difficulties in married 
life at that time. There may also be changes in one's position or status. 


KETU_THE SOUTH NODE IN THE 1st HOUSE 


If Ketu is in the 1st house, it is bad for married life. There will be 
constant ups and downs and no domestic peacefulness. The spouse may 
be domineering or manipulative. The person is intuitive and of a spiritual 
or ascetic nature. There is a powerful discriminative ability. The person 
will be interested in attaining enlightenment or final liberation. There 
will be an interest in occult subjects. Ketu gives a weak constitution 
and health problems. There is a danger of poisons or eating 
contaminated foods. Ketu in the ascendant makes the person go 
unnoticed. He may be shy and, in a way, invisible to others. Morals are 
lacking and the person may be deceitful. The person is changeable, and 
there are many facets to the personality. There may be a compulsive lack 
of confidence. 


UCHCHA (exalted)—If Ketu is in Virgo or Gemini in the 1st house 
(or stationary direct or in forward motion), the person will be psychic. He 
will be spiritual and established on the path of enlightenment. His intelli- 
gence is profound due to a remarkable ability to discriminate in all mat- 
ters. He easily sees through appearances. He is non-attached and ascetic 
by nature. The person is adaptable and flexible. He will be well respected 
but care little for such matters. Married life will suffer in the same 
manner as described above. 


NEECHA (fallen)—There is no agreed-upon fallen position for Ketu, 
but it is poorly placed in Cancer or Leo, as it is an enemy of the Sun and 
Moon. In either of these positions, the negative effects already mentioned 
above are heightened. 


Ketu gives its full effects in the 48th year. At that time there may be 
health problems or marriage difficulties. The person may also reach a 
higher spiritual stage and experience greater detachment from worldly 
affairs. There may also be pronounced spiritual, mystical, or psychic 


2ND HOUSE 
DHANA BHAVA HOUSE OF FINANCES 


The 2nd house corresponds to an earth sign and is therefore a 
house of artha (wealth). 


Wealth, money, family life, domestic happiness, knowledge, speech, 
poets, orators, imagination, face, timidity, confidence, mouth, tongue, 
vision, jewelry, dress, education, educators, food, falsehoods, truthfulness, 
foul language, charity, right eye, neck, throat. 


The second house is known as dhana bhava, or house of finances. 
It also rules several other important matters. A person's imagination and 
speech are noted from this house. Speech includes oratorical ability. Also, 
one's domestic life is affected by this house, since it is the chief significa- 
tor of family. 


The 2nd house creates poets, bankers, educators, and orators. 


The lord of the 2nd is considered to give neutral results to the 
house it occupies. Therefore it neither enhances nor harms that house 
unless by its benefic or malefic nature, sign placement, or aspect. 


The karaka, or indicator, of the 2nd house is Jupiter. 
The ruler of the 2nd house in the: 
1st HOUSE 


Earns wealth through own efforts, one's dharma is strongly con- 
nected with money, speech, education, knowledge etc. 


2nd HOUSE 

Planet in swakshetra (own house). Gains wealth effortlessly, career 

in banking or education, excellent speaker, learned, knowledgeable, happy 

family life, powerful imagination, handsome face, good vision, eats fine 
foods, poetic. 


3rd HOUSE 

May get wealth through the help of brothers & sisters, may earn 

through the fine arts of music, dance, or drama. Efforts geared to earning 
wealth. 


4th HOUSE 
May get wealth or property from mother, may get ancestral prop- 
erty, obtains good academic degree, good education. 


Sth HOUSE 

Wealthy, money through speculation or gambling, intelligent, 

learned, family happiness, gains wealth through children, eats fine foods, 
born to get money effortlessly due to pooruapunya. 


6th HOUSE 

Lord of artha house in another artha house is good for finances, 

but wealth comes slowly after much effort, since this is a dusthana. 

Earns through medical profession or service type jobs, speech impedi- 

ment which can improve with effort, uses foul language, eats bad foods, 
poor vision in right eye, limited imagination. 


7th HOUSE 
Wealthy spouse, spouse helps in gaining wealth, earns money 
through foriegn travel or from foriegn countries. 


8th HOUSE 

Poor, large expenses, speech impediment, timid, uses foul language, 

may speak falsehoods, unhappy family life, bad education, eats bad foods, 

poor vision in right eye, may earn money through undesirable or illegal 

means, limited imagination, inherits wealth if planet is well disposed by 
sign, aspects, etc. 


9th HOUSE 

Wealthy. Money from father, elders, or religious organizations. May 

inherit wealth through sheer luck. Good speech, happy family life, g00d 
imagination, learned, knowledgeable, well educated, eats fine foods. 


10th HOUSE 

Lord of artha house in another artha house is auspicious for earn- 

ing ability, wealth through one's career, high status & reputation. May 
earn through commerce or benefit from government or eminent persons. 


llth HOUSE 9 
Possibly the best position for wealth, easy gains, earns through 
wide variety of means, may earn through the help of eldest brother or 
sister, may earn through banking or handling finances. 


12th HOUSE 

Poor, cannot control spending, large debts, speech impediment, 

right eye suffers, timid, limited imagination, uses foul language, may 

speak falsehoods, unhappy family life, eats bad foods, may earn through 
undesirable or illegal means. 


PLANETS IN THE 2nd HOUSE 


The 2nd house is the main indicator of wealth. It also rules knowl- 
edge and education. Hindu scriptures state that a well endowed 2nd 
house makes a person well versed in shastras (scriptures) and religious 
teachings. In fact, one will be knowledgeable in many fields as well as his 
chosen work if the 2nd house is strong. The scriptures also state that if 
the 2nd house is afflicted, the person is a drunkard. This is because the 
2nd house rules food, and alcohol is considered bad food. Experience has 
shown that an afflicted 2nd house also tends to cause excessive drug use. 


This house is not to be confused with intellect or intelligence. 
These are matters ruled by the 5th house, Mercury, and the Moon. The 
2nd house often figures strongly in the lives of great scientists, mathema- 
ticians, astrologers, and writers. This occurs because a well-endowed 2nd 
house makes a person knowledgeable, well-versed, and able to retain what- 
ever is learned. 


Hindu scriptures also state that, as ruler of family, the 2nd house— 
when powerful—gives many children. The 5th house and Jupiter are the 
chief significators of children, but the 2nd house may have an effect to a 
lesser degree. 


The karaka of the 2nd house is Jupiter. Final judgement of 2nd 
house matters should not be made without consideration of the house 


karaka. 
RAW—THE SUN IN THE 2nd HOUSE 


The Sun in the 2nd house is a mildly malefic influence for all 2nd 
house affairs. The effects are easily reversed if the Sun is aspected by a 
benefic or if it is a functional benefic by virtue of the houses it rules. By 
itself in the 2nd, the Sun causes a person to experience financial prob- 
lems and difficulties earning wealth. The person may also have a troubled 
education. He will speak harshly or use foul language. He may also speak 
falsehoods. Family life is disturbed, and the person will not have an 
attractive face unless the Sun is well aspected or ruling good houses. 


Ancient Hindu scriptures assert that there will be financial losses due to 
government or other authority figures. 


UCHCHA & SWAKSHETRA (exalted & own house)—TIf the Sun is in 
Aries or Leo in the 2nd, the person will be wealthy, knowledgeable, and 
truthful. He will be a good speaker. He gains wealth from government or 
prominent persons. The person will have good eyesight as well as a fertile 
imagination. He will eat good food. He will have a fine education and may 
pursue a career in academia. The person's father is powerful and long- 
lived. 


NEECHA (fallen)—If the Sun is in Libra in the 2nd, the person is 
poor, badly educated, and devoid of imagination. There will be a defect in 
the right eye. There may be diseases of the face, mouth, teeth, or gums. 
The person may have an unattractive face. He may earn wealth through 
undesirable or illegal means. He will be a poor speaker and may have a 
speech defect. The person will be very unhappy on account of a bad family 
life. He eats bad foods. He enjoys using foul language and may speak lies. 


The Sun gives its full effects in the 22nd year. At that time there 
may be difficulties related to the 2nd house. This will not occur if the Sun 
is the ruler of good houses or is well aspected. 


CHANDRA_THE MOON IN THE 2nd HOUSE 


If the Moon is in the 2nd house, the person will be wealthy and soft 
spoken. There will be a strong interest in money matters, education, and 
family life. The person will be knowledgeable and well educated. He may 
choose a career in education or lecturing. Family life is a source of joy, 
and the person is happy. The person may attain wealth through dealings 
with females or the public. Wealth may fluctuate in a large way, 
especially if the Moon is waning or afflicted. The person will have a 
beautiful face. If the Moon is waning, the effects are not so beneficial, but 
the affinity or interest in 2nd house matters is still very strong. 


UCHCHA & SWAKSHETRA (exalted and own house)—If the Moon 
is in Taurus or Cancer in the 2nd, the benefits mentioned above are 
heightened. The person will be rich and handsome. He will be an excellent 
speaker or lecturer. He will be extraordinarily intelligent and learned. The 
person may be renowned for his limitless knowledge. He may attain dis- 
tinction and honors in the field of education. He will be charitable, virtu- 
ous, and truthful. If the Moon is waning in Taurus, the effects are les- 
sened but still beneficial. 


NEECHA (fallen)—If the Moon is in Scorpio in the 2nd house, the 
person will be poor. He will be miserable or depressed on account of a bad 
family life. He will be dull-minded and lacking in imagination. He will be 


poorly educated and will not be a good speaker. The person may have 
diseases of the face, mouth, teeth, or gums. He will not have a beautiful 
face. He eats bad foods. He may speak profanely, and he may lie. 


The Moon gives its full effects in the 24th year. At that time there 
will be benefits regarding finances, education, family life, and other 2nd 
house matters. Such is not the case if the Moon is afflicted. 


KUJA—MARS IN THE 2nd HOUSE 


If Mars is in the 2nd house, the person may amass a good 
amount of wealth. But he does so only through hard work, cruel jobs, or 
deceitful means. The person may not be well educated or knowledgeable. He 
will be quarrelsome, harsh in speech, and will enjoy using foul language. He 
may speak falsehoods. Family life is disturbed. There may be a defect in 
the right eye, and the person's face may be unattractive or marred by 
scars. The person is neither charitable nor virtuous. He may be 
irritable or short-tempered and also eat poor quality foods. Hindu 
scriptures state that the person associates with bad people. 


UCHCHA & SWAKSHETRA (exalted and own house)—If Mars is in 
Capricorn, Aries, or Scorpio in the 2nd house, the person will be very 
wealthy and have a beautiful face. He will be learned, knowledgeable, and 
well educated. He will be an excellent speaker. He will be courageous and 
possess a powerful imagination. 


NEECHA (fallen)—If Mars is in Cancer in the 2nd house, the nega- 
tive effects mentioned above are multiplied. The person is poor and earns 
his wealth through foul jobs, cruel work, or dishonest means. He will be 
depressed on account of a bad family life or because divorce has deprived 
him of his family. There is a speech defect or a difficulty in pronunciation. 
There may be diseases of the face, mouth, teeth, gums, or right eye. The 
person is lacking in imagination and has had little education. He may 
speak very harshly and enjoy using foul language. He will eat bad foods 
and may be a drunkard or abuse drugs. 


Mars gives its full effects in the 28th year. At that time there will be 
difficulties relating to 2nd house affairs. These will not occur if Mars is 
well aspected or the ruler of good houses. 


BUDDHA—MERCURY IN THE 2nd HOUSE 


Mercury in the 2nd house, if unafflicted, is in a fine position for 
intellectual and oratorical activities. The person will be learned and 
knowledgeable, and have a fine education. He will be wealthy and earn 
money through the use of his intellect. He will be an excellent speaker and 
may choose a career in education or lecturing. There is also an interest 


poetry. The person will speak softly and sweetly. Others will enjoy listen- 
ing to him. He has a clever imagination and is witty. Family life is happy, 
and the person eats good foods. He may be well versed in religious scrip- 
tures and foreign languages. If Mercury is afflicted in this house, there 
is a strong chance of a speech defect. 


UCHCHA & SWAKSHETRA (exalted and own house)—If Mercury is 
in Gemini or Virgo in the 2nd house, the benefits given above are height- 
ened. The person will be rich. He will achieve distinction or obtain a high 
position in the field of education. He may be a renowned scientist, 
mathematician, astrologer, or writer. He is an inspiring, imaginative, and 
brilliant lecturer. He may also have a youthful-looking face. 


NEECHA (fallen)—If Mercury is in Pisces in the 2nd house, the per- 
son will be poor. He will have a bad education and a dull imagination. He 
will have a speech problem or difficulties with pronunciation. He eats bad 
foods and may be lacking in confidence. There may be diseases of the face, 
mouth, teeth, or right eye. Family life is disturbed or frenetic. 


Mercury gives its full effects in the 32nd year. At that time there 
will be a rise in wealth, educational status, or other 2nd house affairs. 


GURU—JUPITER IN THE 2nd HOUSE 


If Jupiter is in the 2nd house, the person will become rich easily. He 
will be wise, knowledgeable, and have a fine education. He will be an 
eloquent speaker, and people enjoy listening to him. He eats fine or exotic 
foods. He will be truthful, charitable, and virtuous. He will have a beautiful 
face and dress nicely. Family life is a source of happiness. The person will 
have a fine imagination and may become a poet. He will be passionate about 
education and may choose such a career. He may become a renowned scien- 
tist, mathematician, or writer. He may be the finest of astrologers. 


UCHCHA & SWAKSHETRA (exalted and own house)—If Jupiter is 
in Cancer, Sagittarius, or Pisces in the 2nd house, the benefits mentioned 
above are heightened. Great wealth is certain. The person will be learned 
and wise. His knowledge is limitless. He will speak softly and sweetly and 
may be a poet. The person speaks only the truth. All 2nd house matters 
flourish. 


NEECHA (fallen)—If Jupiter is in Capricorn in the 2nd house, there 
will be money problems or poverty. Family life is marred. There will be 
breaks in education. The person is lacking in imagination and knowledge. 
He will eat bad foods and may be a drunkard. There may be diseases of 
the face, mouth, gums, or teeth. The person may speak lies and be 
immoral. 


Jupiter gives its full effects in the 16th year, and at that time there 
will be good effects relating to 2nd house affairs. 


SUKRA—VENUS IN THE 2nd HOUSE 


If Venus is in the 2nd house, the person will be wealthy and pretty. 
He will speak softly and sweetly. Family life is a source of joy. The 
person is knowledgeable and has a good education. Money comes easily 
and may be acquired through business dealings involving jewelry or 
other beautiful objects. The person is imaginative and enjoys poetry. He 
will eat sweet foods. He will be a good speaker and will not use vulgar 
language. He will be charitable and virtuous, and will not lie. He dresses 
nicely. 


UCHCHA & SWAKSHETRA (exalted and own house)—If Venus is 
in Pisces, Taurus, or Libra in the 2nd, the benefits mentioned above are 
magnified. The person will be rich. Marriage and domestic life will be 
blissful. The person is knowledgeable, wise, and may be well versed in 
religious scriptures. He has a very fertile imagination. 


NEECHA (fallen)—If Venus is in Virgo in the 2nd house, the person 
will be poor. He will have a bad education and a dull imagination. He may 
earn his wealth through deceitful means or foul jobs. The person is 
unhappy due to marriage and family life being disturbed. He may lie and 
use foul language. He will not be charitable. There may be a problem in 
the right eye. There may also be diseases of the face, mouth, teeth, or 
gums. 


Venus gives its full effects in the 25th year, and at that time there 
may be a rise in wealth, educational status, and other 2nd house affairs. 


SA/V/—SATURN IN THE 2nd HOUSE 


If Saturn is in the 2nd house, the person will be poor and have to 
work very hard for his money. Education will suffer, and the person has 
little imagination. There may be difficulties with the right eye or diseases 
of the mouth, teeth, or gums. The face may be unattractive and appear old 
at a young age. Family life is marred, and the person is unhappy on this 
account. The person may be long-lived, as Saturn's aspect on the 8th 
house is good for longevity. He may earn wealth through businesses that 
deal with coal, wood, metal, mining, and hard labor. Hindu scriptures 
declare that the person will go far away from his native place in his latter 
years. The negative effects which have been described will not occur for 
the ascendants of Libra, Virgo, Taurus, or Capricorn. In such cases, 
Saturn becomes a yogakaraka, or functional benefic, because it rules 
good houses or occupies signs where it flourishes. For these ascendants, 
Saturn will give much wealth, which will accumulate gradually. Other 2nd 


bs 


UCHCHA & SWAKSHETRA (exalted and own house)—If Saturn is 
in Libra, Capricorn, or Aquarius in the 2nd house, the person will become 
wealthy through a slow but steady process. The person will be learned and 
knowledgeable. He will be serious and dedicated to his family. He will 
have a fertile imagination. He may be a powerful speaker and an authority 
on certain subjects. 


NEECHA (fallen)—If Saturn is in Aries in the 2nd house, the per- 
son will be poor and may earn his money through hard labor, foul jobs, or 
deceitful means. Family life will be very disturbed, and the person is mis- 
erable or depressed. Education will be limited, and the person has little 
imagination or knowledge. He will have a defect in his right eye. He will 
have diseases of the face, mouth, teeth, or gums. 


Saturn gives its full effects in the 36th year. At that time there may 
be problems with finances, family life, education, or other 2nd house mat- 
ters. The reverse will be the case if Saturn has become a yogakaraka, or 
functional benefic, because of house rulership or sign placement. 


RAHU_THE NORTH NODE IN THE 2nd HOUSE 


Rahu in the 2nd house is one of the worst positions for this planet, 
as one's happiness will be greatly disturbed. The person may be of a 
depressive nature. Family life is also harmed, and there may be domestic 
quarrels or separation from the spouse. Because the 2nd rules the mouth 
and foods, the person may eat poor quality food and take alcohol or drugs. 
He may also consume large quantities of meat. Education and knowledge 
are not favored unless Rahu is posited in the sign of a friend or otherwise 
well disposed. The person may lie and use foul language. He will, however, 
have a most fascinating and peculiar imagination. There may be scars on 
the face or mouth, or problems in the right eye. Rahu as the planet of 
insatiable desire gives a craving for wealth but by itself is a detrimental 
influence for such matters. Also, the person may be inclined to make 
money through deceitful means. If Rahu is well disposed by sign or 
aspect, phenomenal wealth is possible. Ancient Hindu sages declare that 
the person is of a dark complexion. 


UCHCHA (exalted)—If Rahu is in Virgo or Gemini in the 2nd house 
(or stationary direct or in forward motion), the person will gain great 
wealth. He will have a fine education and be knowledgeable. There may be 
a brilliant imagination and talent in poetry or lecturing. Family life and 
happiness may still be disturbed, but other 2nd house affairs flourish. 


Rahu gives its full effects in the 42nd year. At that time there may 
be financial troubles, domestic problems, or general unhappiness. 


KETU_THE SOUTH NODE IN THE 2nd HOUSE 


If Ketu is in the 2nd house, the person will be poor and generally 
unhappy or depressive. He may also use foul language or lie. There may be 
speech problems, and the person may eat bad foods and take alcohol or 
drugs. Education and knowledge are not favored, and family life is 
marred. 


UCHCHA (exalted)—If Ketu is in Gemini or Virgo in the 2nd house 
(or stationary direct or in forward motion), the person will have a good 
education and be extremely knowledgeable. He may be especially well 
versed in spiritual subjects. Financial affairs will flourish, and the person 
will eat good foods. He will have a beautiful face and be an excellent 
speaker, though he may use foul language. Family life may suffer. 


Ketu gives its full effects in the 48th year. At that time there may be 
unhappiness or depression, financial difficulties, and domestic problems. 


3rd HOUSE 1] 
SAHAJA BHAVA—HOUSE OF SIBLINGS 


The 3rd house corresponds to an air sign and is therefore a house 
of kama (desire). 


Brothers, courage, adventures, own efforts, life, energy, enthusiasm, 
initiative, motivation, all desires, voice. Fine arts of music, dance, and 
drama. Actors, dancers, singers, directors, producers, organizers. Hearing, 
mental stability, firmness of personality, neighbors, letters, communica- 
tions, writings, servants, travel (short journeys), hands, arms, shoulders, 
right ear, breasts, life. 


Aside from its rulership of brothers and sisters, the 3rd house is 
significant in that it governs desires in general as well as courage, adven- 
tures, and one's own efforts. What is revealed is whether one's desires are 
fulfilled and how much effort is required towards those ends. If the 3 
desire houses (3rd, 7th, and I I th) are very strong, a person will get most 
anything he sincerely desires, even if specific astrological indications say 
otherwise. For example, if a horoscope contains a heavily afflicted 4th 
house (by rulership and occupancy), the person may still obtain his own 
home if he genuinely desires one and the desire houses are very well forti- 
fied. It is therefore necessary to analyze the 3rd, 7th, and I 1 th houses 
before giving any final judgement. 


The 3rd house as ruler of adventures is also important. It will tell 
of a stagnant life or one that is filled with constant activity, excitement, and 
adventures. Also, since it governs courage, this house, when severely 
afflicted, indicates a person who is fearful. As indicator of brothers and 
sisters, the 3rd, when afflicted, is said in the ancient Hindu scriptures to 


produce "no happiness from brothers." This is a good way to make the 
statement, because there will either be no siblings whatsoever, an antag- 
onistic relationship with siblings, or a sibling who suffers or dies early. It 
is often impossible to know exactly which of these indications is the case. 


The 3rd lord is considered bad in terms of its rulership disposition; 
therefore the placement of this planet will not much enhance the house it 
occupies. Generally not causing great harm, it is found to give lukewarm 
effects. 


The karaka or indicator of the 3rd house is Mars. 


The lord of the 3rd house placed ht the: 


1st HOUSE 

Talent and possible career in music, dance, or drama. Person lives 

and earns by his own efforts. Generally this position does not favor health 
and other 1st house indications; however, courage will be strong. 


2nd HOUSE 

Efforts to make money, person will not gain wealth except through 

hard work, slight difficulties in family life. This position does not favor 

relationship with siblings, though they may somehow assist in earning 
money. 


3rd HOUSE 

Planet in swakshetra (own house). Happiness from brothers & sis- 

ters, prosperous siblings, good hearing, good adventures, desires are ful- 

filled with minimal effort. Talent in music, dance, or drama. Good voice, 

good communicator, literary ability, possibility of career in communica- 

tions, brave, valorous, plenty of inner-city travel, stable or firm personality. 
Person is lively, excited, and motivated. 


4th HOUSE 

Efforts and adventures may involve real estate, land, or farms. 

Brothers or sisters may be close to mother, or they may inherit ancestral 
wealth. Sibling may be in real estate or farming, etc. 


Sth HOUSE 

Happiness from siblings, wealthy siblings, sibling may be involved 

in speculation, siblings of good character—high morals etc.,—courageous, 
desires are fulfilled, talented in music, drama, dance, or literary field. 


6th HOUSE 

Efforts connected to health matters (nursing or medical profes- 

sion), efforts involving service jobs, desires fulfilled slowly and only after 
effort and perseverence. This position gives wealth if the person works 


hard. Problems with siblings which can improve in time, hearing prob- 10 
lems in right ear, sibling involved in medicine. 


7th HOUSE 

Lord of a kama house in another kama house fulfills the desires. 

Strong desire nature, successful efforts, benefits from siblings, sibling 

may reside in foreign country, adventures involving opposite sex, strong 
sexual passions. This position is generally not good for married life. 


8th HOUSE 

No happiness from brothers & sisters, bad relations with sibling, 

sibling dies early or leads life of hardship, no courage, constant fears, no 

adventures, desires go unfulfilled, expends great effort with little reward, 

hearing problems in right ear, poor communications, no ability in fine 

arts, efforts may involve occult or secret matters, brother may be 
involved in occult. 


9th HOUSE 
Adventures involving long distance travel, benefits from siblings. 
Talent in music, dance, or drama. Vocal ability, brave, efforts succeed 
through luck, varied and exciting adventures, sibling may be close to 
father or inherit paternal property, sibling may be religious. The 3rd lord 
does not enhance 9th house significations (luck, father, etc.), but the 3rd 
house is doubly benefited, since the 9th is a good house and the 3rd lord 
will aspect its own house from the 9th. 


10th HOUSE 

Works hard in career, siblings enjoy successful career, good earning 

ability, career in music, dance, drama or literary field. Travels for profes- 
sional purposes, courageous and adventurous. 


11th HOUSE 

Lord of a desire house in another desire house is auspicious. 

Desires are fulfilled, efforts are successful, siblings may aid in gaining 

wealth, gains from investments or involvement in fine arts or literary 
field, brave, good adventures. 


12th HOUSE 
No happiness from siblings, sibling suffers or may die early, bad 
relationship with sibling, hearing problems in right ear, desires go unful- 
filled, expends great effort with little reward, few adventures, no courage, 
constantly fearful, bad voice, no ability in music, dance, or drama. Will 
travel to "unknown places" (i.e., far-off lands such as India or Africa). 
Sibling may be involved in meditation, asceticism, or spiritual life. Sibling 
may be confined in jail or monastery, person suffers losses on account of 
sibling (by accepting bad advice). 


PLANETS IN THE 3rd HOUSE 


The 3rd house rules, among other things, younger brothers and 
sisters, courage, desires, efforts, and adventures. Generally, the planet in 
the 3rd house reveals specific information about the next born sibling. 
The 3rd house does not rule the mind, as it does in Western astrology. It 
does however, rule communications. As such, it is the house most respon- 
sible for creating actors, dancers, singers, and musicians. Anyone in a 
literary field would also have a strong 3rd house. When the house is very 
well disposed, it creates a film or stage director or producer. It is also 
prominent in the lives of managers, organizers, and persons involved in 
detail work. 


The 3rd house, along with the 6th, 10th, and 11th, is an upachaya, 
or "growing" house, where conditions may improve or strengthen in time 
with dedication. Malefic planets in upachaya houses give good results, 
and such is the case with the 3rd house. However, regarding siblings, 
malefics will cause nothing but grief unless they are well aspected or very 
well placed by sign position. 


The 3rd house is also a house of life. It gives energy, excitement, 
and motivation. And the 3rd rules hands; therefore, if the house is 
afflicted, the person may be left-handed or have difficulties in his hands. 


The karaka, or indicator, of the 3rd house is Mars. Final judgement 
of 3rd house matters should not be made without consideration of the 
house karaka, as well as the lord of the house. 


RAW—THE SUN IN THE 3rd HOUSE 


If the Sun is in the 3rd house, the person will be courageous, brave, 
and adventurous. He will be bold and powerful and desire a position of 
authority. He will be motivated, and his efforts will succeed with persever- 
ance. There will be little happiness with brothers and sisters. The person 
is firm or stable in his desires. The next-born sibling is male. 


UCHCHA & SWAKSHETRA (exalted and own sign)—If the Sun is 
in Aries or Leo in the 3rd house, the benefits mentioned above are height- 
ened. The person has a special or famous younger brother or sister. He 
will be powerful and courageous. He will be highly motivated, and his 
efforts will succeed easily. The person may attain distinction in the liter- 
ary field or any profession involving communications. He will be a very 
strong personality. His desires will be fulfilled. 


NEECHA (fallen)—If The Sun is in Libra in the 3rd house, the per- 
son's desires are intense, constant, and nearly insatiable. His efforts are 
unsuccessful, and his desires may remain unfulfilled. He will have prob- 


lems with his brothers and sisters, or have none at all. The next younger 10 
sibling will lead a difficult life or die early. The person may lack excite- 
ment or be unmotivated. He will be cowardly and fearful. He will have no 
talent in the fine arts. 


CHANDRA—THE MOON IN THE 3rd HOUSE 


If the Moon is in the 3rd house, the significations of the house 
flourish, while the Moon is somewhat spoiled. Since the Moon governs the 
mind, this position does not favor mental peace. If the Moon is waning or 
afflicted, the person may be disturbed or mentally unstable. Moon in the 
3rd is not particularly favorable for one's status or general well-being. 
Also, the relationship with the mother will be distant or disturbed. The 
person will have very strong desires. He will be interested in music, dance, 
drama, or singing, and may choose such a career. The person will be 
communicative and may be involved in the literary field or any communi- 
cations career. He will also desire a position influencing the masses. If a 
man, he will have powerful desires for females. If the Moon is waxing, the 
person will have many younger brothers and sisters and will be protective 
of them. If the Moon is waning, he will have younger siblings, but the 
relationship may not be close. If the Moon is waxing the person's efforts 
will bear fruit and his desires will be fulfilled. He will be bold and coura- 
geous. He will travel constantly within his city. The person will have a 
beautiful voice and will be excited, adventurous, and motivated. He will 
have a very active mind. The Moon's aspect on the 9th house gives good 
effects regarding father and religion. Hindu scriptures declare that the 
person will be strong and intoxicated with power. 


UCHCHA & SWAKSHETRA (exalted and own house)—If the Moon 
is in Taurus or Cancer in the 3rd house, the benefits given above are 
magnified. The person will be powerful and intelligent. His efforts succeed 
swiftly. He will derive only joy from his younger brothers and sisters. The 
immediate younger sibling may be female and will be fortunate or famous. 
Life will be exciting and filled with adventure. The person will be a great 
talent in one of the fine arts or the literary field. He will be spiritual and 
benefit from his father due to the Moon's aspect on the 9th house. He is 
highly motivated. 


NEECHA (fallen)—If the Moon is in Scorpio in the 3rd house, the 
person will suffer on account of younger brothers and sisters, or he will 
have none at all. He will be depressed or mentally unstable. His desires are 
never-ending and his efforts constantly failing. The person may have an 
unappealing voice and be cowardly or fearful. There will be no talent in 
the fine arts or literary field. There will be a marked lack of motivation, 
and the person leads a stagnant life. The relationship with the mother is 
spoiled, and her life itself is filled with suffering. The person may have a 
hearing problem in the right ear. 


KUJA—MARS IN THE 3rd HOUSE 


If Mars is in the 3rd house, there will be bad relations with broth- 
ers and sisters, no siblings at all, or the next-born will suffer or die early. 
The person will be excited, motivated, and have a strong gusto for life. He 
will have a problem in his right ear. He will be strong in his desires and 
work very hard in his efforts. The person will be bold, courageous, and 
adventurous. He will have a firm and stable personality, and may be a 
pioneer in his field. If Mars is well aspected or ruling good houses, the 
person will be talented in the literary field or the fine arts of music, dance, 
drama, or singing. The next-born sibling may be masculine and of an 
aggressive nature. Life with the father is disturbed due to Mars' aspect on 
the 9th house. Mars, when afflicted in the house of desires, will make the 
person overly sexual. As a malefic in an upachaya house, Mars is benefi- 
cial to the person's general wealth, happiness, and well-being. 


UCHCHA & SWAKSHETRA (exalted and own house)—If Mars is in 
Capricorn, Aries, or Scorpio in the 3rd house, the person will be brave and 
powerful. He will be a strong leader or commander. The personality will be 
solid or unshakable. The person is highly gifted in the fine arts or literary 
field. He will enjoy happiness from younger brothers and sisters. The 
next-born sibling may be famous, gifted, or highly successful. The person 
will have his desires fulfilled and will constantly travel within his city. He 
will have a powerful or beautiful voice. The person may be a director or 
producer, and will excel in organizational work. 


NEECHA (fallen)—If Mars is in Cancer in the 3rd house, the person 
will suffer on account of younger brothers and sisters, or have none at all. 
The next younger sibling will lead a difficult f an e or die at early age. The 
person will have a problem in his right ear. is efforts will be unsuccess- 
ful and his desires insatiable. The personality will be wavering, change- 
able, or weak. There will be no talent in the literary field or the fine arts. 
The person may have an unattractive voice. He may be left-handed or have 
ailments of the fingers. 


BUDDHA MERCURY IN THE 3rd HOUSE 


If Mercury is in the 3rd house, the person will be talented in the 
literary field. He may also be skillful as a singer, dancer, actor, or musi- 
cian. His efforts and adventures may involve business or commerce. His 
desires are more changeable than usual. They will, however, be fulfilled. 
There will be a good number of brothers and sisters, and he will derive 
happiness from them. The next-born sibling will be of an intellectual 
nature. There will be a good deal of inner city travel. If Mercury is afflicted, 
the personality will be changeable, nervous, excitable, or unstable. 


UCHCHA & SWAKSHETRA (exalted and own house)—If Mercury is 


in Virgo or Gemini in the 3rd house, the person is blessed with many fine 1 C 
younger brothers and sisters. He will be remarkably skilled in writing or 
another facet of the communication arts. He may be a talented actor, 
dancer, musician, or singer. He will be very sharp in business or com- 
merce. The personality is stable, and the person will have a beautiful 
voice. He will be lively and motivated. The immediate younger sibling will 
be famous, talented, or successful in an intellectual career. 


NEECHA (fallen)—If Mercury is in Pisces in the 3rd house, the per- 
son will be nervous or mentally unstable. He will receive no pleasure from 
brothers and sisters. The next-born sibling will suffer or die early. The 
person will be cowardly and fearful. His desires will constantly change. He 
will have a problem in his right ear. The person will have little excitement 
and few adventures in life. He will receive no help from others in his 
efforts. 


GURU—JUPITER IN THE 3rd HOUSE 


This is a good position for 3rd house matters but bad for the signi- 
fications of Jupiter. Hindu scriptures specifically state that the person 
will be miserly and lose many opportunities in life. However, Jupiter's 
aspect on the 9th house must increase the luck and neutralize some of 
the bad effects. The person will have many younger brothers and sisters 
and receive benefits and happiness from them. The person will be a 
highly talented actor, dancer, singer, or musician. He may be a director or 
producer of films or stage plays. He will have a beautiful or powerful voice. 
The person will be communicative and may be involved in literary work 
or a communications career. His efforts are successful and his desires 
fulfilled. The immediate younger sibling will be masculine, religious, 
fortunate, and happy. 


UCHCHA & SWAKSHETRA (exalted and own house)—If Jupiter is 
in Cancer, Sagittarius, or Pisces in the 3rd house, the benefits mentioned 
above are heightened. The person will be the finest actor, singer, dancer, 
or musician. He may also be a director or producer. He may be a 
renowned writer or a professional in any communications career. The 
person's efforts succeed with ease and his desires are fulfilled. His imme- 
diate younger sibling will be fortunate, highly spiritual, or famous. The 
person receives only joy from his siblings. 


NEECHA (fallen)—If Jupiter is in Capricorn in the 3rd house, the 
person will suffer on account of his younger siblings, or he will have none 
at all. The immediate younger sibling may be immoral, lead a life of hard- 
ship, or die early. The person is unlucky and loses many opportunities. 
His efforts continuously fail. His desires are never-ending. He may have a 
weak or wavering personality. There will be no talent in the fine arts, 


the person is a poor communicator. He will also be fearful and lacking in 
motivation. 


SUKRA_VENUS IN THE 3rd HOUSE 


Venus in the 3rd house is considered good for 3rd house matters 
but generally bad for the significations of Venus. Hindu scriptures assert 
that the person will be stingy or miserly. They also declare him to be 
overly sexual or promiscuous. This is because the 3rd house rules desires 
and Venus is the planet of passions. If Venus is in the 3rd house, the 
person will have a good number of younger brothers and sisters, and the 
immediate younger sibling is female. There will be happiness from the 
siblings, and their lives will be fortunate and happy. The person will be 
talented in music, dance, singing, or drama. He will also have literary abil- 
ity. He may be a director or producer of films or stage plays. The person 
will have a strong desire nature, and his desires will be fulfilled. He will 
have a beautiful voice. 


UCHCHA & SWAKSHETRA (exalted and own house)—Venus, the 
planet of art, being well placed in Pisces, Taurus, or Libra, and occupying the 
house of fine arts, will create the finest actor, singer, musician, or dancer. 
The person will also be a talented writer and excel in all kinds of communica- 
tion skills. He may be a director or producer. He fulfills his desires easily. He 
will lead a very adventurous and exciting life. His younger brother or sister 
may be famous or highly talented and fortunate. There is great happiness 
from siblings. The person is excited and highly motivated. 


NEECHA (fallen)—If Venus is in Virgo in the 3rd house, the person 
may be overly sexual. His desires in general are constant and nearly insat- 
iable. The person is never satisfied, and his desires are not easily fulfilled, 
if at all. The person will be fearful and cowardly. There are few 
adventures in the life, and the person may be inactive or stagnant. He will 
lack incentive and initiative. He may have a hearing problem in the right 
ear. The person's younger siblings may suffer or die early. In any event, 
there is very little happiness from them. There is no talent in the fine 
arts. Married life suffers whenever Venus is in Virgo. 


SANISATURN IN THE 3rd HOUSE 


If Saturn is in the 3rd house, the person will have few younger 
brothers or sisters. His relationship with them will be distant or marred. 
The immediate younger sibling may be mature, conservative, or of an 
ascetic nature and may lead a life of hardship, depending on the condi- 
tion of Saturn. The person will desire to be a leader. His efforts may suc- 
ceed and his desires be fulfilled, but only after initial failures. The person 
must work very hard and will receive help from no one. His success 
generally comes late in life. In his work he may have to do hard physical 


labor. The person is conservative in action and may lack motivation. He 1¢€ 
may be inactive or lead a stagnant life. He may also have a problem in his 
right ear. Because malefics in upachaya houses are good, the person will 

be courageous and protective of others. He will have a firm and interest- 

ing personality and will develop a strong will. The person will be talented 

in the literary or communications field. He may also be interested and 
talented in the fine arts. Hindu scriptures state that the person will have 

a defect in his hands or be left-handed. 


UCHCHA & SWAKSHETRA (exalted and own house)—If Saturn is 
in Libra, Capricorn, or Aquarius in the 3rd house, the person will be pow- 
erful, highly motivated, and perhaps a leader. He may have few younger 
siblings, but they will be strong and of good character. There may be great 
talent in the fine arts or literary field. The person will be a devoted worker, 
and his efforts will succeed gradually. He will gain more and more power 
as life goes on. In his leadership, he will protect others. 


NEECHA (fallen)—If Saturn is in Aries in the 3rd house, the person 
will suffer on account of his brothers and sisters, or have none at all. The 
immediate younger sibling will suffer or die early. The person will be 
unmotivated and lead a stagnant life. He will have a weak will or wavering 
personality. His efforts continuously fail and his desires go unfulfilled. 
The person may have a defect in his right ear. He will receive no help in 
his efforts. He will have an unappealing voice and no ability in the fine 
arts. He will be a poor communicator. The person may have arthritis or 
some other defect in his hands. 


RAHU—THE NORTH NODE IN THE 3rd HOUSE 


Rahu is very well placed in the 3rd house, where malefics give good 
results. The person will be adventurous, excited, and motivated. He will 
also be courageous, strong-willed, and of an interesting and firm person- 
ality. As Rahu signifies insatiable desires, the person will have powerful 
cravings to communicate. This position favors wealth, respect, and the 
fulfillment of one's efforts and desires. It also gives great ability with 
organizational or detail work. If Rahu is well disposed, there will be liter- 
ary talent and skill in one of the fine arts. Also, the person may have a 
beautiful voice. There will be much inner-city travel. The only bad effect of 
this placement is that the person will have few younger brothers and sis- 
ters or no happiness from them. Because the 3rd is also a house of life 
(along with the 8th), the ancient sages assert that the person will be 
long-lived. 


UCHCHA (exalted)—If Rahu is in Gemini or Virgo in the 3rd house 
(or stationary direct or in forward motion), the person will be brave and 
courageous. He will have a very interesting personality and be brimming 
with energy, enthusiasm, and life. There may be great talent in music, 


dance, or drama. The person may be a producer or director of films or 
stage plays. He will excel in organizational or detail work. He will also be 
an excellent communicator or a fine writer. The person will have troubles 
with his brothers and sisters, or he will have very few siblings younger 
than himself. He will have very strong desires, which will generally be ful- 
filled, since his efforts are successful. There will be a great deal of short- 
distance travel. 


KETU_THE SOUTH NODE IN THE 3rd HOUSE 


If Ketu is in the 3rd house, the effects are similar to those given for 
Rahn, but not quite as beneficial. The person will be respected and of an 
interesting or extraordinary personality. There will be a good deal of live- 
liness and excitement about the person. However, there will be little or no 
happiness from brothers and sisters. This is a good placement for a spiri- 
tual seeker, as the ascetic influence of Ketu in the house of desires causes 
fewer cravings than usual and a sense of non-attachment to one's efforts. 
The person is brave and courageous. 


UCHCHA (exalted)—If Ketu is in Gemini or Virgo in the 3rd house 
(or stationary direct or in forward motion), the person will be spiritual 
and non-attached to worldly desires. He will have excellent powers of dis- 
crimination and take a broad view of all issues. The person will be cour- 
ageous, brave, and of a firm and interesting personality. There may be 
great talent in any one of the fine arts or any communicative field. The 
person may excel in writing and author several books. The next younger 
brother or sister may be extraordinarily spiritual or an ascetic type. There 
will be talent in organizational and detail work. The person may also 
have a beautiful voice. His efforts will generally be successful and his 
desires fulfilled. 


4TH HOUSE 
SUKFIA BHAVA—HOUSE OF HAPPINESS & COMFORTS 


The 4th house corresponds to a water sign and is therefore a 
house of moksha (self realization or final liberation). 


Mother, the heart (emotions and passions), happiness, land, fixed 
assets, buildings, real estate, ancestral inheritances, comforts, conveyan- 


ces (cars, boats, planes), academic degree, endings, close of life, private 
affairs, farms, graves. 


The 4th house most notably signifies the home, mother, and con- 
veyances. It also, however, governs happiness and the heart. Therefore it 
is to be considered that any planet occupying the 4th reveals the passions 
ingrained in one's heart. Capricorn ruling the 4th would signify a passion 
for business, whereas Libra, a sign of Venus, would give a love of art. 
Although the attraction may not dominate one's career choice, it is part of 
the person's heritage and will remain so for life. The 4th also governs the 
educational degree, and therefore even if the education house (the 2nd) is 
weak, one may still obtain a degree if the 4th is well fortified. 


The karakas, or indicators, of the 4th lk,use are Moon and Mercury. 
Ruler of the 4th house placed in the: 


lst HOUSE 

Plentiful fixed assets, owns homes and conveyances (cars, boats, 

planes), good educational degree, enjoys many comforts, happiness, 

close to mother, raised with care and affection from mother, may inherit 
maternal property or wealth, well respected, healthy. 


2nd HOUSE 

Earns money through land or real estate, good finances, happy fam- 

ily life, supports family members, good education, passion for money, 
wealth through mother or maternal relations. 


3rd HOUSE 

Suffers on account of siblings, little happiness from mother. Land 

or wealth comes strictly by one's own efforts. This position does not favor 

fixed assets or other 4th house matters, as the 3rd house is the 12th 
house from the 4th. 


4th HOUSE 

Planet in swakshetra (own house). Talent and passion for the indica- 

tions of the occupying planet. Learned, obtains good degree, enjoys fine 

cars and conveyances, happiness from mother, long-lived mother, hap- 

piness and many comforts, owns land, wealthy, may discover hidden 

treasure, successful and smooth endings, peaceful or happy close of life. 
The moksha lord in a moksha house is good for spiritual life. 


Sth HOUSE 

Person owns homes, land, and conveyances. Good intellect, good 

education, many comforts, powerful or wealthy mother, benefits from 

mother, mother is religious or of good character, enjoys ancestral prop- 

erty. Happiness and gains through child, successful children, gains from 
government. 


6th HOUSE 

Discord with mother, difficulty in owning home or land, car prob- 

lems, few fixed assets, hard to obtain degree, breaks in education, unhappy 

or problematic endings, sickly mother, mother may be involved in medi- 
cine, prominent maternal uncle, good jobs, good health. 


7th HOUSE 

Owns land or homes, powerful mother, good comforts and convey- 

ances, passion for spouse, marital happiness, powerful spouse, good for- 
tune and happiness. 


8th HOUSE 

Few fixed assets, owns no land or home, few luxuries in life, car 

problems, no happiness from mother, mother has hard life or may die 

early, adverse relationship with mother, unhappy, does not obtain degree, 

breaks in education, unhappy endings, difficult close of life, no maternal 

inheritance, passion for occult sciences. Moksha lord in a moksha house is 
auspicious for self-realization and spiritual life. 


YtHHOUSE 
Happiness and benefits from mother, mother is religious or of good 


character, powerful father, gains from father, benefits from guru, passion 
for religion and philosophy, high degree, learned, happy, fortunate, many 
comforts, owns land or homes. 


10th HOUSE 

This is a powerful position indicating a strong and successful 

career. Political power, well respected by powerful people, may be a ruler or 
leader, may be famous. 


11 th HOUSE 
Wealth and benefits from mother, profits through real estate, good 
comforts, happy and fortunate. 


12th HOUSE 

Poor, owns no land or homes, few fixed assets, car problems, 

unhappy, does not obtain degree, breaks in education, few luxuries, no 

happiness from mother, mother suffers or dies early, bad relationship 

with mother, unhappy endings, difficult close of life, no maternal inheri- 

tance. A moksha lord in a moksha house is good for spiritual life. Happy 
afterlife (i.e., attains heaven). Person may live in foreign lands. 


PLANETS IN THE 4TH HOUSE 


The 4th house reveals more than a few important matters. Among 
these are mother, homes, happiness and contentment, land, fixed assets, 
education and degree, the heart (emotionally and physically), and com- 
forts. Because it rules happiness and contentment, the 4th house is of 
immense importance. In India, where life is more difficult by circum- 
stance, astrologers are careful to note whether a person may be content 
with his lot in life. 


Although the condition and happiness of the mother may be seen 
from the 4th, one must be careful when predicting her longevity. In India, 
where diseases are more often fatal, it is easy to conclude that the mother 
will die at an early age if the 4th house is afflicted. In the west, the house 
must be very badly disposed to indicate such results. 


Unlike in Western astrology, family life is not seen from the 4th but 
the 2nd house. 


The 4th is a moksha house, and planets occupying it may give an 
interest in spiritual life or occult subjects. 


Planets in the 4th house gain power and prominence because they 
are in a kendra (angular house). The nature and tendencies of any occupy- 
ing planet will be deeply ingrained in the person and will be noticeable to 
others. Planets in the 4th aspect the 10th house which in nearly all cases 


will give energy and power to the person's career. Therefore, if many 
planets occupy the 4th, the person will hold a powerful position in life, 
even though the 10th house may be otherwise weak or devoid of planets. 


There is a general rule that neecha planets in kendras are good. In 
practice, they are still harmful, but not always to the extent expected. 
Therefore care should be taken before giving an extreme judgement. 


The karakas or indicators, of the 4th house are the Moon and Mer- 
cury. Final judgement of 4th house matters should not be made without 
consideration of the house karakas and the house lord. 


RAVI—THE SUN IN THE 4th HOUSE 


If the Sun is in the 4th house and unaspected by a benefic, the 
person will be unhappy and irritable or quarrelsome. He will not benefit 
from, or get along with, his mother. He will have few fixed assets or con- 
veyances. He will, however, have a good career and hold his father dear to 
his heart. He may get paternal property if the Sun is well aspected or 
ruling good houses. The person will be ambitious and fond of power. He 
will enjoy gold ornaments or jewelry. There may be an interest in 
spiritual or occult subjects. Education may be interrupted and a degree 
difficult to obtain. If the Sun is afflicted, there will be heart problems. 
Hindu scriptures declare that the person will be constantly roaming 
about in search of happiness. 


UCHCHA & SWAKSHETRA (exalted and own house)—If the Sun is 
in Aries or Leo in the 4th house, the person will own nice homes, land, 
and conveyances. He will have a successful career and wield much power. 
Maternal happiness will be lacking. The person will inherit paternal prop- 
erty and will benefit from his father. He will gain more power towards the 
close of his life. He will have a good education and obtain a fine degree. 


NEECHA (fallen)—If the Sun is in Libra in the 4th house, the per- 
son will be unhappy and lack contentment. He may be cruel-hearted. He 
will suffer on account of both his mother and father. Both parents may 
lead difficult lives or die at early ages. The person will have car problems 
and may not own his own home. He may lose or sell his fixed assets at 
different intervals in his life. He will have an interrupted education and 
may not obtain a degree. The person will have heart diseases. He will also 
have career problems and be powerless. 


CHANDRA—THE MOON IN THE 4th HOUSE 


WAXING MOON—This is the best position for the Moon, as it gets 
dik bola, or directional strength, in the 4th house. The person will be 
happy and content. He will be close with his mother and benefit from her. 


The mother will be fortunate and long-lived. The person will have a good 11 
heart and be very kind and tender. He will be fortunate in owning fine 
homes and all kinds of conveyances (cars, boats, planes, etc.). He will enjoy 
many comforts and luxuries. The person will obtain a good position and 
much status in his career. He will have many female friends, and they will 
be dear to his heart. He will have a good education and earn a prestigious 
degree. The person will be sensitive to the cares of the masses and inter- 
ested in protecting them. He will inherit maternal or ancestral property or 
wealth. He may gain from farming, agriculture, or landscaping. 


WANING MOON—If the waning Moon is in the 4th house, the per- 
son may be close to his mother, but her affection and guidance may be 
distorted or less than valuable. Happiness and contentment are con- 
stantly fluctuating. The person will move his place of residence more often 
than normal. Hindu scriptures state that the person will be brought up 
on the breast milk of a woman other than his mother and will be weak 
and sickly during childhood. 


UCHCHA & SWAKSHETRA (exalted and own house)—If the Moon 
is in Taurus or Cancer in the 4th house, the person will be extremly for- 
tunate, and the benefits given above are magnified. The person will be 
successful and powerful. He will enjoy the finest homes, conveyances, and 
luxuries, as well as being happy and content. He may obtain the highest 
educational degree. His mother may be wealthy, famous, and long-lived. 
The relationship with the mother is a source of joy. The person may 
benefit or have a good relationship with the masses. If the Moon is wan- 
ing, the effects are proportionately lessened but still beneficial. 


NEECHA (fallen)—If the Moon is in Scorpio in the 4th house, the 
person will suffer on account of his mother. The mother's life may be 
difficult and unhappy, or she may die early. The person may be mean or 
cruel-hearted. He may also have problems or diseases of the heart. He may 
not own homes or land, and he will have car problems. The person will 
lose or sell fixed assets at different points in his life. He will be unhappy 
and discontented. There will be interruptions in education, and the per- 
son may not obtain a degree. He will not have been breast-fed. 


KUJA-MARS IN THE 4th HOUSE 


If Mars is in the 4th house, the person will suffer on account of his 
mother. He will not get along with her, and they will argue often. The 
person will not own his own homes or live in nice surroundings unless 
Mars is well aspected or ruling good houses. Nor will he own land. The 
person will have car problems, and if Mars is afflicted, there may be fires 
in his home. He is liable to have have heart diseases. The person may be 
mean or cruel-hearted and will not be happy or content. He will not 
inherit maternal or ancestral property, or if he does he may lose it. 


ings of any nature will be discordant or troublesome. The close of his life 
will be difficult. The person will have a successful or powerful career. He 
may have an interrupted education or difficulties obtaining a degree. 
Mars in the 4th indicates Kujadosha, or Mars affliction. Therefore, mar- 
ried life and domestic harmony is marred unless the person marries a 
spouse who also has a Kujadosha horoscope. The exception to this rule is 
if Mars in the 4th house is in Scorpio. (For further details, see page 67). 
Hindu scriptures declare that Mars will destroy any planet it conjoins in 
the 4th house. 


UCHCHA & SWAKSHETRA (exalted and own house)—If Mars is in 
Capricorn, Aries, or Scorpio in the 4th house, the person will own abund- 
ant land and houses. He may own fine cars and other conveyances. His 
mother may be powerful and long-lived, though their relationship may be 
discordant. The person will have an excellent education and obtain a fine 
degree. He will have abundant fixed assets. 


NEECHA (fallen)—If Mars is in Cancer in the 4th house, the per- 
son's mother will lead a life of suffering or die early. The relationship with 
her is spoiled, and they will constantly argue. The person will not own his 
own land or homes. He will live in dilapidated houses and have car prob- 
lems or no car at all. He will have few fixed assets and be very unhappy or 
dissatisfied. The person will not have a good career and may suffer from 
heart diseases. He will receive no maternal or ancestral property. He will 
have an interrupted education or fail to obtain a degree. 


BUDDHA-MERCURY IN THE 4th HOUSE 


If Mercury is in the 4th house, it is very good for intellectual and 
educational activities. The person will have a fine education and earn a 
good degree. He will be happy. He will own land, homes, and conveyances. 
He will get along well with his mother, though the relationship may not be 
an emotional one. The person will enjoy music and other fine arts. His 
mother will be learned and intelligent. Hindu scriptures state that the 
person will be wealthy, have many good friends, and be deprived of ances- 
tral property. If Mercury is aspected by any malefic, the results will be 
reversed. 


UCHCHA & SWAKSHETRA (exalted and own house)—If Mercury is 
in Gemini or Virgo in the 4th house, the benefits listed above are height- 
ened. The person will be a scholar and may choose a career in education 
or another intellectual field. His mother will be highly intelligent and spe- 
cial or famous. The person will be very content and will own fine cars or 
boats. He may own land, buildings, and other fixed assets. 


NEECHA (fallen)—If Mercury is in Pisces in the 4th house, the per- 
son will be dissatisfied and unhappy. He will suffer on account of his 


mother, and she will lead a difficult life or die early. She may be mentally 
unstable. The person will have a poor education and may not obtain a 
degree. He will have car problems and may not own his own house. He will 
be nervous, lack confidence, and enjoy bragging. The person will be 
deprived of ancestral property and will enjoy few luxuries. Endings will be 
discordant, and the person may lose or sell his fixed assets at different 
points in his life. 


SUKRA_VENUS IN THE 4th HOUSE 


This is the best position for Venus, as it gets dik Bala, or direc- 
tional strength, in the 4th house. If Venus is in the 4th, the person will be 
happy and content. He will be kind, tender-hearted, and capable of forgiv- 
ing anyone. He will be close to his mother and will benefit from her. The 
mother will be beautiful, happy, and long-lived. The person will own nice 
homes and conveyances. He will enjoy many luxuries and comforts. He 
will be diplomatic and well liked by everyone. He will gain maternal or 
ancestral wealth or property. Endings will be smooth, and the close of life 
is happy. The person will have a good education and obtain a fine degree. 
He will be fond of the arts, beautiful objects, and pretty females. He will be 
passionate about life. 


UCHCHA & SWAKSHETRA (exalted and own house)—If Venus is 
in Pisces, Taurus, or Libra in the 4th house, the benefits given above are 
heightened. The person will be extremely fortunate. His mother will be 
virtuous, very special, or famous. The person will be respected and adored 
by all. His happiness and contentment is unshakable. He will have a fine 
education and earn a prestigious degree. He will be wealthy and own all 
kinds of luxuries. The person will own plenty of land, buildings, and other 
fixed assets. He will have the best cars, boats, or planes. 


NEECHA (fallen)—If Venus is in Virgo in the 4th house, the person 
will suffer on account of his mother. He will also be dissatisfied and 
unhappy. The mother will be weak, lead a life of hardship, and may die 
early. The person will not own his own house, and he will have car prob- 
lems. He will own few fixed assets and will at different intervals in his life 
lose or sell them off. He will have few luxuries and comforts. He will have 
an interrupted education and difficulties obtaining a degree. 


GURU_JUPITER IN THE 4th HOUSE 


If Jupiter is in the 4th house, the person will be fortunate. He will 
be happy and content and will enjoy many luxuries and comforts. He will 
be well cared-for by his mother, and their relationship will be close. The 
person will own nice homes, large cars, and plenty of fixed assets. He will 
inherit maternal and ancestral wealth or property. He will have a success- 
ful career and be well respected. Education will be good, and the person 


gets a fine degree. He will be spiritual and interested in enlightenment. 
Religion, philosophy, and occult subjects will be dear to his heart. He will 
have a good upbringing and be generous and warm-hearted. If Jupiter is 
afflicted, the person may be deprived of fixed assets and will quarrel with 
his mother. 


UCHCHA & SWAKSHETRA (exalted and own house)—If Jupiter is 
in Cancer, Sagittarius, or Pisces in the 4th house, the person is extremely 
lucky and the benefits above are heightened. The person will be wealthy 
from his abundant real estate and other fixed assets. He will be very 
happy and remarkably spiritual or religious. The person will receive 
plenty of ancestral wealth or property. His mother may be special or 
famous, and the relationship with her is joyus. The person will have a fine 
career. The close of his life brings further contentment and a higher spiri- 
tual stage. Endings will be easy and pleasant. 


NEECHA (fallen)—If Jupiter is in Capricorn in the 4th house, the 
person will be dissatisfied and unhappy. He will suffer on account of his 
mother. Her life will be difficult, or she may die early. The person will 
have a poor education and may not obtain a degree. He will have car 
problems and may live in run-down houses. He will have few fixed assets. 
He may have been brought up with a distorted view of religion. The person 
may be rigid and dogmatic in his philosophy. He will be deprived of his 
ancestral or maternal inheritances. 


SAM_SATURN IN THE 4th HOUSE 


If Saturn is in the 4th house, the person will be overly serious, 
unhappy, or miserable. There will be several major ups and downs in his 
life. He will receive no happiness from his mother, and her life is filled 
with hardship. She may die early. The person will have car problems and 
may live in old or dilapidated houses. He will own few fixed assets. He may 
suffer from heart diseases or be brokenhearted. He may live a secluded 
life, especially in his latter years. The close of his life may be restrictive or 
depressing. The person may have educational problems and fail to obtain 
a degree. Hindu scriptures state that the person will be sickly in his early 
years. If Saturn is a yogakaraka ruling good houses, the results are re- 
versed. For Taurus and Libra ascendants, Saturn in the 4th gives happi- 
ness and plentiful fixed assets—especially real estate. 


UCHCHA & SWAKSHETRA (exalted and own house)—If Saturn is 
in Libra, Capricorn, or Aquarius in the 4th house, the person will own 
homes and plenty of real estate. He will have a good education and 
obtain a fine degree. He will have a powerful career and be respected. 
He will enjoy maternal or ancestral wealth and property. The mother is 
very strong and may have endured a good deal of hardship in her life. 
The person may be adept at carpentry and other forms of manual labor. 


has had a good upbringing and is disciplined, serious, and humble. He 111 
may be extraordinarily spiritual and unattached to relative pleasures. 


NEECHA (fallen)—If Saturn is in Aries in the 4th house, the person 
will be extremely unhappy. He will suffer on account of his mother, and 
she will lead a life of hardship or die early. The person will own few fixed 
assets and may live in dilapidated houses. He will have a poor education 
and fail to earn a degree. He will receive no maternal or ancestral inherit- 
ances. The person will not be respected and may be broken hearted. He 
will have car problems. He will suffer from heart diseases. At the close of 
his life the person may be alone and miserable. 


RAHU_THE NORTH NODE IN THE 4th HOUSE 


If Rahu is in the 4th house, the person will have difficulties with 
his mother, who may herself lead a troubled life. The person will have 
strong desires to own land or his own home, but this placement is a nega- 
tive influence towards such ambitions. There may be difficulties in the 
educational life or in obtaining a degree. Since the 4th is an angular 
house, which gives power to planets, and because it rules the heart and 
emotions, this person may have powerful cravings for worldly benefits. 
Happiness and contentment may be somewhat disturbed by such insa- 
tiable desires. It is said that Rahu or Ketu in any angular house causes 
many major changes throughout the life. 


UCHCHA (exalted)—if Rahu is in Gemini or Virgo in the 4th house (or 
stationary direct or in forward motion), the person will desire and eventu- 
ally succeed in obtaining very fine or special homes. The home may be 
exceptional in that it may be a mansion, farm, ranch, or place to house 
orphans or needy people. Or it will be used for some out-of-the-ordinary 
purpose. The person will also own very fine cars, boats and other convey- 
ances. He will obtain a good educational degree and may be interested in 
occult subjects. The mother will be especially worldly or powerful, and of a 
very strong character. And she will be a beneficial force in the person's 
life. 


KETU_THE SOUTH NODE IN THE 4th HOUSE 


If Ketu is in the 4th house, the person will have a disturbed rela- 
tionship with his mother, who may herself be weak, sickly, or lacking in 
confidence. The person will be of a discriminating nature and bent on 
discovering the truths of life. He will have trouble obtaining land and 
homes, and may live in old houses with bugs, insects, and vermin. He may 
leave his parents early in life and live far from his birthplace. There will be 
car problems, which may be difficult to properly diagnose. Also, the per- 
son may have difficulties in his education or in obtaining a degree. The 
spiritual Ketu in this angular moksha house gives a strong interest in 


enlightenment or spiritual life. 


UCHCHA (exalted)—If Ketu is in Gemini or Virgo in the 4th house 
(or stationary direct or in forward motion), the person will own special 
homes, which may be used for out-of-the-ordinary purposes. He will drive 
fine cars and have a good education. The person's mother will be a benefi- 
cial influence and of great character. She may be highly spiritual. 


STH HOUSE 1] 
PUTRA BRAVA—HOUSE OF CHILDREN 


The 5th house corresponds to a fire sign and is therefore a house of 
dharma (duty or life purpose). 


Children, intelligence, the mind, poorvapunya (past-life credit), 
speculation, gambling, sports, art of painting or drawing, morals, merit, 
charity, religious-mindedness, romance, love affairs, pleasure, mantras, 
spiritual techniques, wisdom, high learning, kingship, good deeds. 


The Sth house, being a trikona (trinal house), is auspicious. The 
ruler of the 5th benefits whatever house it occupies. Aside from its essen- 
tial rulership of children, the mind, investments, etc., it is a very signifi- 
cant part of a horoscope because it governs what is termed poorvapunya. 
This is the past-life credit (or lack of it) which is due to show up in this 
lifetime. Nearly all world-famous individuals have a powerful Sth house. 
This is the indication that they have worked hard enough to earn what is 
now their reward. Since poorvapunya is in a sense a "birthright," a per- 
son with great poorvapunya often feels or knows his destiny at an early 
age. 


Also as this is the house of morals and merit, a powerful 5th 
denotes a person of ability, integrity, humility, and other fine qualities. 


The 5th plays a major role in the lives of great saints and religious 
leaders since it rules religious-mindedness, morals, mantras, and spiritual 
techniques. 


In India, marriages—at least until recently—were prearranged at 


birth or a young age. Therefore love affairs, as seen from the 5th, meant 
the quality of love received from the spouse. In the West it reveals love 
affairs both before and after marriage. 


The karaka or indicator of the 5th house is Jupiter. 


The ruler of the 5th house placed in the: 


1st HOUSE 

A dharma lord in a dharma house is auspicious in giving a power- 

ful destiny. Respected or famous, intelligent, wealthy, handsome, kind, 

kingly, happiness from children, religious-minded, enjoys speculating, 

enjoys sports, good education, attains wisdom, destined to continue same 

path as last life, performs good deeds, charitable. Learned in scriptures, 

mantras, and spiritual techniques. Pleasurable love affairs, happy child- 
hood—good start in life. 


2nd HOUSE 

Great intelligence, learned, knowledgeable, career in education, good 

speaker, may be astrologer or mathematician, happy family life, large or 

prosperous family, wealthy, good imagination, enjoys good food, may earn 
money through temples or teaching religious techniques. 


3rd HOUSE 
Happiness from siblings, desires are fulfilled, exciting adventures, 
brave. Talented in music, dance, or drama. Literary ability. 


4th HOUSE 

Happiness from mother, long-lived mother. Destined to own land, 

homes, or conveyances. Many comforts and luxuries, great happiness, 
pleasant endings, peaceful close of life, intelligent, obtains fine degree. 


Sth HOUSE 
Planet in swakshetra (own house). Happiness from children, pros- 
perous children, highly intelligent, religious-minded, performs good deeds, 
enjoys sports, successful investments, likes to speculate, happy love affairs, 
knowledge of mantras or scriptures, strong integrity and merit, may head 
religious or spiritual organization, very strong poorvapunya, powerful 
dharma, interest in politics, may be a ruler, benefits from wealthy per- 
sons or philanthropists. 


6th HOUSE 

Troubles with children, dull intellect, disturbed mind, difficulties 

passing exams, hardships in love affairs, benefits from maternal uncle, 

gets good jobs, good health, knowledge of medicine or healing arts brought 
over from past incarnation. 


7th HOUSE 

Happy marriage. Beautiful, intelligent, or devoted spouse. Good 

mind, prosperous children, happiness from children, child may live in for- 
eign country, strong passions. This is a fortunate position for health, 
name and fame, etc., as the 5th lord from the 7th will aspect the ascendant. 


8th HOUSE 

No happiness from children, possible abortion or death of child, 

adverse relations with child, few children, losses from investments, diffi- 

culties in love matters, unintelligent, hard-to-pass exams, unrighteous, 
immoral, has wasted past life and has no previous credit forthcoming. 


9th HOUSE 
A dharma lord in a dharma house is auspicious. The trikona lord 
in a trikona house is one of the finest placements possible. Lucky, fortu- 
nate, wealthy, has divine grace, famous, happiness from children, spiri- 
tual children, prosperous children, happy love affairs, highly spiritual or 
religious, philosophical, knowledge of scriptures and mantras, gains from 
father, gains from elders and guru, obtains finest guru, lucky in obtaining 
knowledge. Father is wealthy, famous, or long-lived. Father may be reli- 
gious. Powerful dharma. May become spiritual teacher or head of reli- 
gious organization. This position is most common in horoscopes of 
saints, gurus, and spiritual leaders. 


10th HOUSE 

Prominent career, fame, career may involve speculation or sports, 

powerful children, happiness from children, performs good deeds, visits 
holy sights, gains from eminent or government people, career in politics. 


1 1 th HOUSE 
Profits from children, many friends, powerful friends, great wealth, 
plentiful opportunities, success in all undertakings, fulfilled desires. Ex- 
cellent intelligence, as the 5th lord from the 11th aspects the Sth. Benefits 
from eldest sibling. 


12th HOUSE 

No happiness from children, possible abortion or early death of 
child, few children, bad relations with child, child may become an ascetic 
pursuing meditation or moksha. Unhappy love affairs, losses through 
speculation, unintelligent, disturbed mind, difficulties in passing exams, 
immoral, unrighteous, has wasted previous life and has no credit forth- 
coming, peaceful after life, may become detached from worldly affairs and 
pursue meditation and moksha, enjoys bed pleasures (good sex life), owns 
nice beds with ornaments. 


PLANETS IN THE 5TH HOUSE 


The 5th house rules children, intelligence, and the mind, among 


many other important matters. As a trikona, or trinal house, it is capable 
of giving some of the finest benefits in a horoscope. Because the 5th rules 
the mind, common sense, and intelligence, it reveals to a great extent the 
quality of the person. A good Sth house gives morals and virtue, refine- 
ment, class, integrity, and ability—in short, a depth and fineness of char- 
acter above and beyond any other horoscope indication. 


The Sth house also rules poorvapunya, or past-life credit. Whatever 
planet occupies the house denotes the specific ability or talent resulting 
from the labor of one's last incarnation. If the 5th house planet is 
afflicted or fallen, then one has abused the significations indicated and 
now has problems in that area. 


Because the 5th house rules kingship, it is often the most signifi- 
cant house of politicians and rulers. Wealth also is directly influenced by 
this house because investments are a 5th house affair. And any planet in 
the 5th naturally aspects the llth, which governs gains and profits. 


The 5th house is significant in producing saintliness and devotion 
to God. It rules religious-mindedness, good deeds, and mantras or spiri- 
tual techniques, and thus it figures strongly in the lives religious leaders 
and spiritual teachers. 


Regarding children, the 5th house most specifically reveals the 
life of the first-born child and the number of children. Determining the 
exact number of a Westerner's offspring is difficult if not impossible. 
The method employed by the Hindus is to count up the number of 
planets occupying the house, the aspects to the house, and the aspects 
to the ruler of the 5th. The total is the number of likely pregnancies. In the 
West, where birth control is widespread, this figure will often be 
exaggerated. However, with experience one can draw a relatively accurate 
conclusion from this technique. For example, if there are no planets in 
the 5th, no aspects to the Sth ruler, and only a few aspects to the house, it 
is highly unlikely that there will be more than one or two children. Ideally, 
both the husband's and wife's chart should be analyzed. Fallen planets 
in the 5th or Mars aspects to the house are declared to give still births or 
miscarriages. However, in the Western world they generally indicate 
abortions. The Sth house and Jupiter must be very badly afflicted to cause 
a miscarriage or the death of a child. 


The karaka, or indicator of the 5th house, is Jupiter. Final judge- 
ment of 5th house matters should not be made without consideration of 
the house karaka as well as the lord of the house. 


RAW_THE SUN IN THE 5th HOUSE 


If the Sun is in the 5th house, the person will be sharp and intelli- 


gent. He may also be irritable or hot-tempered. He will have few children, 12 
and his relationship with them may be disturbed. A female with this 
placement may have a difficult childbirth. The person's investments are 
unprofitable, and he may be poor. He may have difficulties in love affairs 
and be overly indulgent in seeking pleasures. The person will wish to rule 
or dominate others. Because of his past-life credit, he may be a successful 
politician or hold a position of authority in government. He may also 
benefit from his father, due to poorvapunya. This placement does not 
favor morals or a religious mind. However, if the Sun is well aspected or 
ruling good houses, the person will be virtuous and inclined towards reli- 
gious or spiritual practices. In such a case, because the Sun rules the 
soul, this is an excellent placement in the life of a spiritual seeker. Hindu 
scriptures declare that the person will be found wandering in mountains 
and forest regions, and that he may be well versed in the knowledge of 
mantras. 


UCHCHA & SWAKSHETRA (exalted and own house)—If the Sun is 
in Aries or Leo in the Sth house, the person will be powerful and may be 
destined to rule others by virtue of his poorvapunya. He may become a 
politician in a very high position. He will benefit greatly from his father. 
He will be intelligent and wise. He is also confident and strong-minded. 
The person is virtuous, of fine character, and will perform good deeds. He 
is spiritual and has an unshakable faith in God. He may be talented in 
art or sports and may choose such a career. His children will be powerful 
and prosperous. He may have a son who is special or famous. He will 
make profitable investments and may wish to become a stockbroker. 


NEECHA (fallen)—If the Sun is in Libra in the 5th house, the per- 
son will be mentally disturbed or unstable and lack common sense. He 
will be constantly searching for happiness. He will suffer on account of 
children and may have to endure unwanted pregnancies, abortions, or 
miscarriages. He may have a child who dies early or leads a life of hard- 
ship. His investments will fail and he may be poor. He has no poorva- 
punya, and he must earn whatever benefits he enjoys in this life from his 
present activities. He lacks power and authority and has abused these 
functions in his previous life. He gains nothing from his father, unless 
the 9th house indicates otherwise. There will be difficulties in love affairs. 
The person lacks refinement and class, and is of weak character. He may 
be sinful or immoral. He has no faith in or devotion to God. He may be 
unintelligent and fail his exams. 


CHANDRA_THE MOON IN THE 5th HOUSE 


WAXING MOON—TIf the waxing Moon is in the 5th house, the per- 
son will be highly intelligent, intellectual-minded, and learned. He is pas- 
sionate about his beliefs and concepts. He will have a good number of very 
fine children. They will be special or famous. He will care well for 


upbringing and be close to them. The person will benefit from females 

and his mother by virtue of his poorvapunya. Therefore, in a man's chart, 
a beautiful wife is indicated. There will be a love of art, sports, or gam- 
bling, and the person may choose a career in one of these. Investments 
will be profitable, and the person may be rich. He may become a stock- 
broker. The person is reserved in nature but may be given a government 
or rulership position. He is highly virtuous and moral, and he performs 
good deeds. The person has a strong faith in and devotion to God. He is 
truthful, straightforward, and of fine character. Love affairs will be a 
source of joy, and the person leads a happy and pleasurable life. The Moon 
is considered to give more female children than male; however, Hindu 
scriptures are divided on this issue. In many horoscopes, where the Moon 
alone occupies the 5th and the 5th lord is powerful, sons rather than 
daughters have been born. 


WANING MOON—TIf the waning Moon is in the 5th house, the per- 
son will be intellectual-minded, but his thinking will be colored by his 
emotions. His mind fluctuates, and he may have difficulties making deci- 
sions. He will be passionate about his thoughts and ideas. He may be 
inteligent but lack common sense. There will be an interest in art, 
sports, or speculating. The person will have good children and take pains 
to care for them. Success in speculating may fluctuate. The waning 
Moon does not give such virtue, morals, or spiritual faith as does the 
waxing Moon. If the Moon is afflicted, the person may be mentally 
disturbed or unstable. 


UCHCHA & SWAKSHETRA (exalted and own house)—If the 
Moon is in Taurus or Cancer in the 5th house, the benefits given under 
"waxing Moon" are heightened. The person will be highly intelligent, possess 
great common sense, and be capable of mastering any subject with ease. 
He will be gracious, of great integrity, and of fine character. The person is 
virtuous, charitable, and has great faith in God. He will perform good 
deeds. He may be tremendously wealthy from successful investments. 
The person may be a fine athlete, artist, or politician. There will be 
happiness from children, and they will be special or famous. The 
person may be an authority on the subject of mantras and spiritual 
practices. He will be reserved and soft-natured. If the Moon is waning, 
the benefits are lessened but still quite positive. 


NEECHA (fallen)—If the Moon is in Scorpio in the 5th house, the 
person will be badly disturbed or mentally unstable. He will have no com- 
mon sense or reasoning ability. His whole being is governed by his feel- 
ings. Investments will fail, and the person may be poor. Love affairs are 
spoiled, and there is little pleasure in life. The person may be sinful, 
immoral, or of weak character. He has no poorvapunya, and there will be 
troubles with females and the mother. He may have abused females in his 


KUJA—MARS IN THE 5th HOUSE 1 


If Mars is in the 5th house, the person will be intelligent and rash 
or hot-tempered. He will also be shrewd. There will be few or no children, 
unless Mars is well aspected or ruling good houses. There will be argu- 
ments and problems with the children, and they may lead difficult lives. 
There may be abortions or miscarriages if Mars is afflicted. The person 
will have hardships in love affairs and roughness in married life. The per- 
son is a good fighter and has been born with a forcefulness or aggressive 
nature carried over from his last life. He is a gifted leader or commander 
and may be involved in military or police work. He may wish to rule others 
and may become a politician. The person is a fine athlete and may 
choose a career in sports. Investments and speculation will bring losses. 
The person may be immoral, deceitful, or sinful. He may have bad habits 
and be mean. He will not be religious-minded or practice spiritual 
techniques. There is no interest in performing good deeds. Hindu 
scriptures declare that the person will incur the wrath of the government 
or "be on its bad books." They also state that the person is disturbed by 
his thoughts and too attached to sexual pleasure. 


UCHCHA & SWAKSHETRA (exalted and own house)—If Mars is in 
Capricorn, Aries, or Scorpio in the 5th house, the person will be intelli- 
gent or brilliant. He will have few children, but they will be powerful, suc- 
cessful, and prosperous. The person may be destined to become a ruler or 
politician in a high position. Or he may be a highly successful athlete or 
military commander. He will enjoy speculating, and his investments are 
successful. He will have a strong mind, be brave, and confident. He will be 
virtuous and of good character. He may also be artistic. He may be reli- 
gious or practice spiritual techniques. 


NEECHA (fallen)—If Mars is in Cancer in the 5th house, the person 
will be unintelligent and mentally unstable. He will be constantly angry or 
disturbed. There will be abortions or miscarriages, and little happiness 
from children. The person may have a child that dies at an early age. He 
may be deceitful, immoral, or sinful. He will lack refinement and be of 
weak character. Investments fail and poverty results. Love affairs are 
spoiled and the person is unloved. There is no credit from the last incar- 
nation to appear in this life. There may be problems with the government. 


BUDDHA MERCURY IN THE 5th HOUSE 


Mercury in the 5th house is one of the finest positions for intelli- 
gence. The person will be highly respected for his intellect and may 
become an educator, advisor, or consultant. He will be original and crea- 
tive, and may be an authority in his field. He will be discriminating, objec- 
tive, and practical in his rationale. He will have a good number of children 
and be happy on that account. The person has happy love affairs and 


profitable investments. He is virtuous, refined, and of good character. He 
is religious-minded and interested in performing good deeds. This is an 
excellent position regarding knowledge of religious scriptures and man- 
tras or spiritual techniques. Hindu scriptures state that the person is 
adept at performing hypnosis and the art of casting spells. There will be 
talent in painting, drawing, or another art form. Poorvapunya is strong 
and connected to knowledge and other intellectual functions. 


UCHCHA & SWAKSHETRA (exalted and own house)—If Mercury is 
in Virgo or Gemini in the 5th house, the benefits given above are height- 
ened. The person will be brilliant and wise. He will be a person of virtue, 
refinement, and class. He may be a saintly religious leader or spiritual 
teacher. He will have many fine children who will be special or famous. He 
may enjoy speculation and gain great wealth in this way. This person may 
be an inventor, and his ability to think originally and freely is profound. 
He may be a talented artist. 


NEECHA (fallen)—If Mercury is in Pisces in the 5th house, the per- 
son will be mentally unstable or disturbed. He will be unintelligent and 
fail his exams. He will have few or no children. There may be abortions or 
miscarriages, or a child may die early. The person is of weak character. He 
will not be religious-minded or practice spiritual techniques. Investments 
will fail and the person will be poor. There is no poorvapunya, and the 
person in his last life may have abused his mental faculties. 


GURU—JUPITER IN THE 5th HOUSE 


If Jupiter is in the 5th house, the person will be very intelligent. He 
will be optimistic and cheerful. He will have prosperous sons who will 
bring much happiness. The person will enjoy all kinds of speculation, and 
his investments will be successful. He may be a stockbroker or in a career 
involving speculation. There is talent in art or sports, and a career in one 
of these is possible. The person will be religious-minded and have a 
strong faith in God. He will have knowledge of the law, philosophy, or 
mantras and spiritual techniques. He will have high morals and be virtu- 
ous. The person may have a superiority complex and wish to rule others. 
He may become a successful politician in a high position. There is strong 
poorvapunya, and the person's wealth and position may be gained in a 
quick stroke, with little effort. Hindu scriptures declare that in his last life 
the person was religious and performed actions solely for the benefit of 
others. In this life he reaps the rewards. The person is refined, charitable, 
and performs good deeds. He has a strong life purpose and sense of his 
own destiny. Love affairs are smooth and pleasurable. Life is great fun for 
this person. 


UCHCHA & SWAKSHETRA (exalted and own house)—If Jupiter is 
in Cancer, Sagittarius, or Pisces in the 5th house, the person will be of the 


finest character. He will be wise, spiritual, and of the greatest virtue. He 
will have many children who will be a source of joy and who will be spe- 
cial, prosperous, or famous. The person will have a deep faith in God and 
may be a religious leader or spiritual teacher. He has very strong poorva- 
punya and is divinely blessed. He is highly intelligent and optimistic. 
Investments will be very successful, and the person may be wealthy. The 
person may be a politician or ruler of men. He will have a very strong life 
purpose and may know his destiny at an early age. 


NEECHA (fallen)—If Jupiter is in Capricorn in the 5th house, the 
person will be troubled and miserable. He will be unintelligent and lack- 
ing in logic. He will fail his exams. Love affairs are spoiled, and there will 
be little pleasure or fun in life. There may be unwanted pregnancies, abor- 
tions, or miscarriages and no happiness from children. Whatever children 
there are will lead difficult lives. There is no past-life credit, and the per- 
son may have abused religious or spiritual principles in his last life. 
Investments will fail, and the person must work hard to amass his wealth. 
Morals will be lacking, and the person will not be refined or charitable. 
His sense of religion and God may be distorted. He may have no sense of 
his destiny or life purpose. 


SUKRA—VENUS IN THE 5th HOUSE 


If Venus is in the 5th house, the person will be wise, intelligent, and 
of fine character. He will be romantic and very fond of sensual pleasures. 
He will have happiness from his children and may have more daughters 
than sons. His investments will be successful, and he will be wealthy. He 
will have strong poorvapunya and may have great artistic talent due to 
the efforts in his previous life. The person will be virtuous and religious- 
minded. He may also have knowledge of mantras or religious techniques. 
He will be happy in his love affairs and well loved in his marriage. This 
position favors benefits from government, and Hindu scriptures state 
that the person will be a judge or magistrate. 


UCHCHA & SWAKSHETRA (exalted and own house)—If Venus is 
in Pisces, Taurus, or Libra in the 5th house, the person will be brilliant 
and wise. He will be refined and virtuous. He may have a special or 
famous daughter. He will become rich from his investments. He may be a 
great painter or artist. Due to his poorvapunya, he may attain great 
wealth and position with ease or in a stroke of luck. The person may be 
religious with a strong devotion to God. He will receive plenty of love, enjoy 
sensual pleasures, and lead a happy life. The person may be a ruler or 
obtain a high political position. He has a strong life purpose and sense of 
his own destiny. 


NEECHA (fallen)—If Venus is in Virgo in the 5th house, the person 
may be unintelligent, mentally unstable, and of a weak character. He will 


be overly indulgent in sex and all kinds of sensual pleasures. He may 
enjoy speculating, but his investments will fail and he will be poor. There 
will be suffering on account of children, and he may have a child who dies 
early or leads a life of hardship. There are problems in love affairs, and the 
person may be unloved in his marriage. Poorvapunya is weak, and the 
person may have abused the love principle in his last life. 


SANISATURN IN THE 5th HOUSE 


If Saturn is in the Sth house, the person will be dull or unintelli- 
gent and will have troubles passing exams. However, aspects and ruler- 
ships must be considered because Saturn rules logic and is therefore 
capable of giving an excellent mind. The person will have a slow or con- 
servative type mind and may be overly serious or pessimistic. He will have 
very few children or none at all. If he has a child, there will be problems or 
little happiness on this account. The child may lead a life of hardship. 
There will be great difficulties in love affairs, and the person will feel iso- 
lated or misunderstood. This position is bad for wealth, as Saturn spoils 
whatever financial investments the person makes. There is little poorva- 
punya, and the person must earn what benefits he has in this life from 
his present activities. If Saturn is afflicted, there will be unwanted preg- 
nancies, abortions, or miscarriages. If Saturn is well aspected or ruling 
good houses, the effects will be reversed, except that the number of chil- 
dren remains small. Hindu scriptures declare that the person will be con- 
stantly wandering about in search of happiness. They also state that the 
person will have daughters. 


UCHCHA & SWAKSHETRA (exalted and own house)—If Saturn is 
in Libra, Capricorn, or Aquarius in the 5th house, the person will be 
highly intelligent. He will have a serious, logical, and probing mind. He 
will have only 1 or 2 children, and they will be disciplined, mature, or 
spiritual. He will be very fond of his children, and they will be a source of 
great pleasure. Love affairs may be few but serious. He will, in his life, 
experience profound and genuine love. Investments will be conservative or 
long-term, and they will be successful. The person will be very stable men- 
tally and always consider the universal or broad perspective of an issue. 
There will be interest and ability in art, sports, or politics. Poorvapunya is 
strong, and the person is born with wisdom, discipline, and humility 
earned in his last life. He will have a powerful dharma and strong sense of 
his destiny. He is a person of high morals, refinement, and class He will 
perform good deeds. 


NEECHA (fallen)—If Saturn is in Aries in the 5th house, the person 
will be miserable, pessimistic, or mentally unstable. He will be unintelli- 
gent and lacking in logic. There will be unwanted pregnancies, abortions, 
or miscarriages in his life. If there are any children, there will be no happi- 
ness from them, and the children themselves will lead difficult lives. Love 


affairs will be badly spoiled, and the person will be unloved. Investments 13 
will be disastrous. There is no poorvapunya, as the person may have been 
lazy or wasteful of his energy in his last life. The person may be immoral, 
petty, unrefined, or lacking in class. 


RAHU_THE NORTH NODE IN THE 5th HOUSE 


If Rahu is in the 5th house, it is said that the person died in his 
previous life concentrating on his wealth and other material possessions, 
and that therefore in this life he is beset with desires for money and other 
worldly benefits. The person will be intelligent but of a troubled mind. He 
may be imbalanced in thought, narrow-minded, or hedonistic. The person 
will be practical and not much inclined towards spiritual practices. There 
will be few children or troubles with them. There is also the possibility of 
abortions. Rahu in the 5th also disturbs the person's love affairs and 
causes stomach problems. Regarding poorvapunya, the person has been 
born with skill in manipulating relative life to fulfill his intense desires, 
but there is little peace of mind. If Rahu is badly afflicted, the person may 
be troubled by hallucinations or insanity. Also when afflicted, this place- 
ment often indicates that the person is being affected by a spirit or rest- 
less soul in the afterlife who cannot find peace. It is generally a relative 
who has died through suicide or an unnatural death after a painfully 
unfulfilling life. 


UCHCHA (exalted)—If Rahu is in Gemini or Virgo in the 5th house 
(or stationary direct or in forward motion), the person will be extremely 
intelligent and may have very powerful children and a good relationship 
with them. He will excel in sports, politics, or arts and crafts. The person 
may be very successful in his investments, and wealth is therefore likely. 
There may be difficulties in love affairs. The person is of a fine character, 
with high morals and good integrity. He may have a very strong sense of 
destiny. 


KETU_THE SOUTH NODE IN THE 5th HOUSE 


If Ketu is in the 5th house, the person will have few children or 
difficulties with the ones he has. Love affairs are disturbed, and specula- 
tions may quickly fail. By virtue of his poorvapunya, the person may have 
good discriminative powers and take to spiritual practices or natural 
healing methods. Peace of mind and intelligence may be harmed, but 
not in an intense way. 


UCHCHA (exalted)—If Ketu is in Gemini or Virgo in the 5th house 
(or stationary direct or in forward motion), the person will have special 
children, who may also be quite spiritual. He will be very intelligent and 
skilled in the art of painting, drawing, or other crafts. He may also be 
highly spiritual and an objective thinker due to efforts made in his pre- 


a vious life. The person may practice religious or spiritual techniques regu- 
larly. Talent in sports or politics is also possible. 


6TH HOUSE 1] 
SATRU BHAVA—HOUSE OF ENEMIES 


The 6th house corresponds to an earth sign and is therefore a 
house of artha (wealth). 


Enemies, competitors, jealous people, illness, disease, job, food, 
appetite, subordinate workers, tenants, debts, miserliness, maternal uncle, 
cousins, nursing, medical profession, restaurant & catering field, detail & 
service work. 


The 6th house is a dusthana—an evil or harmful house. Planets in 
the 6th will suffer, as will the houses they rule. Likewise, the ruler of the 
6th will harm the house it occupies. But the 6th is the least malicious of 
the dusthanas, especially since it is also an upachaya house. Upachayas 
are "growing houses," meaning that any planet posited in such a house 
grows stronger in time. Therefore any problems caused by involvement 
with this house may improve or be overcome in time with diligence. A 
typical example of this can be seen when Mercury (the planet of commun- 
ication) rules the 2nd (the house of speech) and occupies either the 6th, 
8th or 12th. There is sure to be a stammer or speech defect. However, if 
Mercury is in the 6th, the problem may only be barely noticeable by the 
time one has reached adulthood. On the other hand, if Mercury occupies 
the 8th or 12th there is no end to the defect. 


Ancient Hindu scriptures declare that if a person's 6th house is 
well fortified, he will "destroy his enemies." Therefore this house deter- 
mines the ability to get the better of opponents. It is thus important to 
have a strong 6th house if one desires to reach the top of any chosen field. 


The karakas, or indicators, of the 6th house are Mars and Saturn 
The ruler of the 6th house placed in the: 


1st HOUSE 

Poor health, thin or emaciated body, has to take special diet, gains 

no fame, hard worker, interest or career in medical or healing arts, diffi- 

cult childhood—poor start in life, close to maternal uncle, born to a com- 
mon family. 


2nd HOUSE 

The lord of an artha house in another artha house is good for earn- 

ing ability, but money comes slowly and with hard work, since the 6th 

house is a dusthana. Domestic problems, uses foul language, poor imagi- 

nation, limited education and knowledge, poor vision in right eye, utters 

falsehoods, diseases of the mouth and tongue, stammer or speech defect, 
loses money through enemies or thieves. 


3rd HOUSE 

Little or no happiness from siblings, quarrelsome or bad-tempered, 

hard to achieve desires, career in nursing or medical profession, lacks 

courage, fearful, few adventures, no excitement, hearing problems in right 

ear. No ability or enjoyment of fine arts of music, dance, and drama. No 
literary appreciation or talent, sickly brothers or sisters. 


4th HOUSE 

Discord with mother, sickly mother. Difficulty in owning land, 

home or conveyances. Car problems, unhappy, few luxuries or comforts, 

breaks in education, hard to obtain degree, discordant endings, sickly at 
close of life, little or no ancestral inheritance, few fixed assets. 


Sth HOUSE 

Friction with child, sickly child, disturbed mind, dull intellect, diffi- 

culty passing exams, knowledge of healing arts carried over from past life, 

losses from investments, unrighteous, immoral, unhappy love affairs, 

good health, good job, destroys enemies, beats competitors, little credit 
from previous life. 


6th HOUSE 

Planet in swakshetra (own house). Healthy, good job, defeats ene- 

mies, beats competitors, wealthy, interest in medicine or healing arts, gets 

good servants and workers, gains from maternal uncle, uncle is promi- 
nent, benefits from cousins. 


7th HOUSE 
Marital discord, unhealthy spouse, debts on account of spouse, 
unsuccessful partnerships. Poor health, no fame, unhappy, and unfortu- 


nate due to 6th lord aspecting ascendant. I 


8th HOUSE 

Unhealthy, chronic illnesses, bad jobs, powerful enemies or jealous 

people, bad servants, dishonest workers, losses due to subordinates, 

medium life span, does not get the benefit of partner's wealth, no gains 
from wills or insurance policies. 


9th HOUSE 


Good health, good jobs, gains from uncle, powerful uncle, religious 
uncle, honest workers, good tenants and subordinates. Friction with 
father, sickly father, father involved in medicine, bad luck, no enjoyment 
of religion and philosophy, no faith, no gains from gurus. 


10th HOUS 

The lord of an artha house in another artha house is good for ear 

ing ability, but money comes slowly and after hard work, since the 6th is 
dusthana. Career in medicine, difficulty in finding one's career or dharm 
changes in career, enemies harm career or stand in the way of promotio 


1 1 th HOUSE 

Profitable jobs, good health, discord with eldest sibling, sickly eldest 

sibling, wealthy uncle, problems with friends, bad friends, few opportuni- 
ties, hard to fulfill desires and ambitions. 


12th HOUSE 


Bad health, bad jobs, dishonest workers, losses through subordi- 
nates or servants, unfortunate uncle, no sexual pleasure, plain bedding 
(no fancy ornaments), diseases of anus, hearing problem in left ear, poor 
vision in left eye. 


PLANETS IN THE 6TH HOUSE 


The 6th house pertains mainly to health matters, one's daily job, 
subordinates, and enemies. It belongs to the dusthanas, or evil houses, 
and is therefore harmful to its occupying planets. However, because it is 
also an upachaya house, any malefics are welcomed and will produce 
beneficial results. The houses ruled by these malefics are unfortunately, 
not spared the harm. As with all upachaya, or "growing," houses, any 
problems indicated may improve in time if the person is diligent in his 
efforts. Also, contrary to its initial destruction of planetary energy, the 
significations of any occupying planet may become stronger and stronger 
throughout life because of this growing nature. 


Many planets in the 6th house generally indicate a person who is 
involved in self-improvement regimens and a career in medicine, 
catering, or any detail-oriented work. Also, there would be a love of daily 


the person excels in service type jobs. 


There is no hidden meaning to the 6th house except that it is 
essential to understand the use of the term "enemies" in the proper con- 
text. Aside from the common meaning of the word, anyone in the envi- 
ronment capable of enjoying more or greater benefits than the person 
himself is, in the 6th house sense, an enemy. This means any competitor 
or person who might achieve a higher status in the same organization, or 
career etc. For this reason, persons who reach the pinnacle in their field 
generally have an extraordinarily powerful 6th house. These people may 
rise to the top with little or no distraction from competitors. In fact, they 
may reach their high status instantly, without ever seeing their would-be 
rivals. 


The 6th house also rules appetite, and it is found that when the 
house is well disposed a person eats quite a bit. When the 6th is weak the 
person eats little and may not wish to eat with friends. It must be remem- 
bered that while benefics in the 6th house are good, malefics are even 
better. And oddly, when this house is enormously powerful, it is possible 
that the person is very much overweight due to his insatiable appetite. 


Because the 6th is an artha house, it will have a bearing on wealth. 
Also, because the 6th rules enemies and litigations, if the house is 
afflicted there is a danger of being charged in court cases. 


The karakas, or indicators, of the 6th house are Mars and Saturn. 
Final judgement of 6th house matters should not be made without con- 
sideration of the house karakas, as well as the lord of the 6th. 


RAW—THE SUN IN THE 6th HOUSE 


The Sun, as a malefic, is very well placed in the 6th house. The 
person will swiftly rise above his competitors and defeat his enemies. He 
will be powerful or famous. He may be a leader, authority figure, or politi- 
cian. The person will be healthy and have a strong vitality. However, if the 
Sun is in any way afflicted, the reverse is the case and the person must 
take extra care of his health. In any case, the person will likely eat special 
diets or adopt some regular excercise program. The person is a hard 
worker and earns a good reputation. He may pursue service jobs or a 
career involving medicine. There may be vision problems, and if the 
Sun is afflicted, the heart will also be be adversely affected. The person's 
father may be weak, or sickly, or lead a difficult life. If the Sun is well 
aspected, there will be a good relationship with or gains from the 
maternal uncle. Hindu scriptures declare that the person will wander in 
jungles and take great interest in chanting mantras and practicing 
spiritual techniques such as hatha yoga. A Westerner with this position, 
therefore, will engage in all kinds of self-improvement and purification 


UCHCHA & SWAKSHETRA (exalted and own house)—If the Sun is 1 
in Aries or Leo in the 6th house, the benefits given above are intensified. 
The person will be extremely vital and healthy. He may be a doctor or 
healer. He will be very powerful or famous. He will always get the better of 
his competitors or enemies. He may own restaurants or be involved in 
catering. He will benefit from his tenants, subordinates, and workers. His 
maternal uncle may be a prosperous man, and there will be gains from 
and a good relationship with him. 


NEECHA (fallen)—If the Sun is in Libra in the 6th house, the per- 
son will have health problems. He may also have bad eyesight or heart 
diseases. He may have difficulties in his work or troubles with co-workers 
or subordinates. His father will lead a life of hardship, be ill, or die early. 
There may be troubles with government or authority figures. There may 
be many enemies throughout life, and the person has no ability to defeat 
his competitors and foes. Because Libra rules the kidneys and the area 
below the naval, there may be ailments in these parts. 


CHANDRA_THE MOON IN THE 6th HOUSE 


If the Moon is in the 6th house, the person will be extremely effi- 
cient or a perfectionist in his job. He will be disposed towards detail work 
and service jobs. He may be involved in restaurant work or the medical 
field. The 6th house, being a dusthana, is essentially a poor position for 
the Moon, and the person may be sickly (especially during youth) and his 
general well-being and fortune marred. There may be very powerful ene- 
mies or jealous people working against him all throughout life. There may 
be a weak constitution, as well as stomach or breast ailments. Females 
may have menstrual disorders. The relationship with the mother is dis- 
turbed, and her life itself may be filled with hardship. If the Moon is wax- 
ing and well aspected, the person defeats his enemies and rises easily 
above his competitors. If it is waning or badly aspected, he is defeated and 
humiliated by his enemies and may occupy a low position in life. Hindu 
scriptures state that the person will lack sexual passion. Relationships 
with workers, subordinates, and tenants will depend on the condition and 
aspects to the Moon. As always, the waxing Moon will give positive results, 
while the waning Moon will not. 


UCHCHA & SWAKSHETRA (exalted and own house)—If the Moon 
is in Taurus or Cancer in the 6th house, the person will have few enemies 
and will rise effortlessly above his competitors. He will be free from illness 
and have great vitality and a strong constitution. The person is extremely 
efficient and excels in all kinds of detail work. Though capable of caring 
for others, he will not be inclined towards subservient jobs. He may, how- 
ever, be interested in a position protecting or caring for the masses. The 
person will benefit from his subordinates, workers, and tenants. There 
may be gains from or a good relationship with the maternal uncle. 


NEECHA (fallen)—If the Moon is in Scorpio in the 6th house, the 
person will be unhealthy, sickly, and of a weak constitution. The person 
may suffer from stomach or breast problems, and females may have men- 
strual disorders. The person may be unintelligent, have a poor memory, or 
lack common sense. The relationship with the mother may be spoiled, 
and she herself may be sickly, suffer, or die early. There is no ability to 
defeat enemies or competitors. The person may be troubled by enemies or 
jealous people throughout life. There may be problems at work or trouble 
with subordinates, employees, and tenants. This is a very bad position for 
one's general well-being, status, and fortune. There may be illnesses in the 
reproductive system or private parts, as Scorpio rules this area. 


KUJA MARS IN THE 6th HOUSE 


If Mars is in the 6th house, the person will have enormous ability to 
rise above his competitors and defeat his enemies. He will be very power- 
ful and successful. He will be vital and healthy. If Mars is afflicted, the 
person will suffer from fevers and skin problems, or diseases arising from 
weak or impure blood. The person will be adept at technical or detail 
work. He is courageous and fulfills his ambitions easily. There may be 
difficulties with workers, subordinates, and tenants, depending on the 
condition of Mars. Hindu scriptures are emphatic that the person will be 
highly passionate and libidinous. This may be due to the strength of Mars 
growing with each year or because from this house Mars aspects the 
12th—the house of bed pleasures (sex). 


UCHCHA & SWAKSHETRA (exalted and own house)—If Mars is in 
Capricorn, Aries, or Scorpio in the 6th house, the benefits already men- 
tioned are magnified. The person will reach the top of his field with little 
or no effort. He will be extraordinarily healthy and free from illness. He 
will benefit from his maternal uncle and cousins. The uncle may be pow- 
erful or prosperous. The person may also own property. 


NEECHA (fallen)—If Mars is in Cancer in the 6th house, the person 
will be unhealthy and sickly. His blood is impure, and he may have skin 
diseases. He will often suffer from fevers. The person will encounter many 
enemies or jealous people in his life. He will be powerless to defeat them or 
rise above his competitors. He may be superceded by his juniors at work. 
There will be troubles with co-workers, tenants, and subordinates. There 
may be heart problems, as Cancer rules the heart in Hindu astrology. 


BUDDHA MERCURY IN THE 6th HOUSE 


If Mercury is in the 6th house, the person will have strength to 
defeat his enemies and competitors. He may have a good knowledge of 
health matters. There will be obstacles in educational pursuits. However, 


the person is outwardly intelligent and well respected. He will be inter 13 
ested in expressing and proving his point of view, and, is very talented in 
debating issues. Because he is so concerned with being right, he may be 
known as a quarrelsome person. He will be quite proud and enjoy show- 
ing off or bragging about himself. There may be a speech problem in child- 
hood which improves in time. The person obtains good jobs with fine pay. 
Daily work may involve any intellectual or communications activity. The 
person will write many letters, and if Mercury is well aspected, he will 
become an author. If Mercury is afflicted, there may be nervous disorders, 
speech defects, mental problems, and poor health. The person would be 
too easily excitable or rash under many circustances. There would also be 
difficulties in the sphere of job and subordinates, etc. However, if Mercury 
is aspected by malefic planets, it loses its benefic status and becomes a 
malefic, which, in this house, is even better in terms of health, enemies, 
and competitiors. It is mainly when Mercury is badly placed by sign that 

it harms the house. 


UCHCHA & SWAKSHETRA (exalted and own house)—If Mercury is 
in Virgo or Gemini in the 6th house, the person will defeat his enemies 
and rise above his competitors. He will be vital and healthy. The person is 
calm and stable, and has a strong nervous system. He will excel in con- 
vineing others to accept his point of view. He may be a fine writer and 
may author several books. The person is capable of mastering minute 
detail work. He will gain from his uncle and cousins. He may also benefit 


from subordinates, co-workers, and tenants. He may be involved in the 
medical field. 


NEECHA (fallen)—If Mercury is in Pisces in the 6th house, the per- 
son will have health problems. He may have slight energy or a weak con- 
stitution. There may be nervous disorders or mental problems. There may 
also be lung or breathing problems. There may be many enemies 
throughout his life, and the person has no ability to defeat them. Nor does 
he rise above his competitors. Because Pisces rules the feet, there may 
diseases in this part of the body. 


GURU_JUPITER IN THE 6th HOUSE 


If Jupiter is in the 6th house, there may be enemies, but the person 
will defeat them and also rise above his competitors. He will be healthy. 
However, if Jupiter is afflicted, there will be allergies and liver ailments. 
Health would suffer from overindulgence. The person will have a good job 
and be an efficient worker. He will get along well with co-workers. He will 
benefit from subordinates, tenants, and employees. The significations of 
Jupiter will be somewhat spoiled and the person's luck is diminished. 
This is a good position for wealth, though, as the 6th is an artha house. 
There may be few children, difficulties associated with travel, and a lack of 
faith and religion. The person may be involved in law or philosophy in his 


daily work. There will be benefits from the cousins and the maternal 
uncle. The person is proficient at detail work. Hindu scriptures state that 
the person will be inactive and lazy. Regarding enemies, it is important to 
note whether Jupiter occupies a friendly house or not. 


UCHCHA & SWAKSHETRA (exalted and own house)—TIf Jupiter is 
in Cancer in the 6th house, the benefits given above are heightened. The 
person may reach the top of his field very rapidly. He will have no enemies 
at all and will rise above his competitors. He will have excellent health. He 
may be renowned in the field of medicine, law, or philosophy. 


NEECHA (fallen)—If Jupiter is in Capricorn in the 6th house, the 
person will be unhealthy. He will suffer from allergies and liver ailments. 
There will be many enemies or jealous people, and there is little strength 
to defeat them. The person is overtaken by his competitors. The significa- 
tions of Jupiter—children, luck, fortune, philosophy, religion, etc., are 
badly disturbed. There may be ailments involving the knees, since Capri- 
corn rules this part of the body. 


SUERA—VENUS IN THE 6th HOUSE 


If Venus is in the 6th house, the person will be healthy. However, if 
Venus is afflicted or in an enemy's house, there would be poor health and 
illnesses involving the reproductive system. Venereal diseases would be 
possible. Venus in the 6th enables the person to obtain good jobs and 
good earnings. The person gets along well with co-workers. He will also 
benefit from subordinates and tenants. He will have no enemies and will 
rise above competitors. The person's daily work may involve sweets, the 
arts, beautiful objects, mathematics, or females. The person is 
proficient in detail work. There may be benefits from cousins or the 
uncle. There may be problems in the love life due to Venus being spoiled 
by the 6th house. In a man's chart, the wife is adversely affected and might 
be sickly. Happiness would also be disturbed. Hindu scriptures declare 
that a man with Venus in the 6th will be very fond of women and have 
many contacts with them. The sages are, however, quite divided on the 
effect of this position regarding health. 


UCHCHA & SWAKSHETRA (exalted and own house)—If Venus is 
in Pisces, Libra, or Taurus in the 6th house, the benefits given above are 
intensified. The person will barely know an enemy in his life. He will rise 
swiftly above his competitors. He will be very healthy. The person is a 
briliant mathematician and capable of the most intricate detail work. He 
may be involved in the medical field. He will have a prominent or famous 
maternal uncle. He will benefit from his uncles and cousins. The person is 
exceedingly fortunate in securing good jobs with excellent pay. The mar- 
riage partner could be involved in medicine or healing. 


NEECHA (fallen)—If Venus is in Virgo in the 6th house, there will 
be health problems. The person will suffer from venereal diseases or ail- 
ments of the reproductive system. There will be a great many enemies or 
jealous people in the life, and the person has no ability to defeat them. He 
cannot rise above competitors and may remain in a lowly position. There 
will be troubles with co-workers, subordinates, or tenants. The person 
cannot obtain good jobs with decent pay. The love life is greatly harmed, 
and in a man's chart the marriage partner may be unhealthy and sickly. 
There may be ailments involving the hip or intestines, as Virgo rules this 
part of the body. 


SAKI—SATURN IN THE 6th HOUSE 


If Saturn is in the 6th house, the person has tremendous ability to 
defeat his enemies and rise above his competitors. He may, however, have 
problems in his daily job. If the rest of the horoscope is average, the per- 
son will work at difficult jobs which pay little. But if the chart is otherwise 
well disposed, he will effortlessly rise to a very high position in life. The 
person is very healthy and vital. He will have a powerful appetite and be a 
very big eater. There may be difficulties with co-workers, subordinates, 
and tenants. The person is talented in technical fields and has great 
patience with detail work. He may work with coal, carpentry, or mining. 
He will be courageous and powerful. There will be no benefits from cou- 
sins or the maternal uncle. If Saturn is afflicted, there may be illnesses 
such as asthma, rheumatism, or paralysis. Longevity would also be cur- 
tailed. Hindu scriptures declare the person to be stubborn. 


UCHCHA & SWAKSHETRA (exalted and own house)—If Saturn is 
in Libra, Capricorn, or Aquarius in the 6th house, the benefits given 
above are magnified. The person is extremely fortunate in defeating ene- 
mies and rising above competitors. He may obtain a fine position in life. 
He is also very powerful and extraordinarily healthy. He may have a prom- 
inent or distinguished uncle and will benefit from him. The person also 
benefits from cousins and subordinates. He will be an excellent and dedi- 
cated worker. He will live a long life. 


NEECHA (fallen)—If Saturn is in Aries in the 6th house, the person 
will have great health problems. Longevity is also quite diminished. There 
may be illnesses such as paralysis, asthma, or rheumatism. The person 
will have many enemies and no ability to defeat them. Nor will he rise 
above his competitors. The person may have to perform bad jobs with 
little pay. He will have problems with co-workers, subordinates, and 
tenants. There may also be troubles with cousins and maternal uncles. 
There may be ailments involving the head, since Aries rules this part of 
the body. 


RAHU—THE NORTH NODE IN THE 6th HOUSE 


Rahu in the 6th house is an excellent placement, giving the person 
great vitality and excellent health. Also, the person will be long-lived. He 
will defeat his enemies and effortlessly rise above his competitors. He will 
excel in detail work and may be involved in any service job. The person 
may also work in the health or catering field. Hindu scriptures declare 
that the person will be wealthy and well respected. 


UCHCHA (exalted)—If Rahu is in Gemini or Virgo in the 6th house 
(or stationary direct or in forward motion), the benefits described above 
are heightened. 


KETU_THE SOUTH NODE IN THE 6th HOUSE 


If Ketu is in the 6th house, the person will easily defeat his enemies 
and rise above competitors. However, there may be strange and difficult- 
to-diagnose illnesses. Or the person may have a weight problem which he 
cannot overcome. There may be difficulties with subordinates and co- 
workers who are devious and work against the person. There may also be 
a good many enemies or jealous people causing problems. 


UCHCHA (exalted)—If Ketu is in Gemini or Virgo in the 6th house 
(or stationary direct or in forward motion), the person will have excellent 
vitality and health. He will also defeat his enemies and competitors. The 
person will get along with co-workers and benefit from subordinates. 


7TH HOUSE | 
JAYA BHAVA—HOUSE OF WIFE 


The 7th house corresponds to an air sign and is therefore a house 
of ka ma (desire). 


Married life, spouse, sexual passions, partners of all kinds, veins 
and loins, residence in foreign countries, courts. 


The 7th house is relatively simple in that it is essentially the house 
of marriage and partnerships in general. It reveals the quality of married 
life, as well as the condition of the spouse. It also governs residence in 
foreign countries. 


The 7th house, being a kendra (angular house), is considered 
generally fortunate, and the ruler is therefore an asset to the house it 
occupies. 


The karaka, or indicator, of the 7th house is Venus. 


The ruler of the 7th house placed in the: 


lst HOUSE 

Healthy, powerful, respected, happy married life, beautiful or wealthy 

spouse, successful partnerships, strong desires and passions, good sex 

life, may marry childhood sweetheart or one who has been close by for 

many years. Seventh house matters are especially fruitful, since 7th lord 
aspects its own house from this position. 


2nd HOUS 
Gets wealth through spouse, spouse has good earning ability, gor 
speaker, imaginative, intelligent and knowledgeable spouse, wealth fro 


business partnerships, happy family life. 


3rd HOUSE 

Lord of a kama house in another kama house fulfills desires and 

creates a strong desire nature. Wealthy and powerful siblings, courageous 

and adventurous spouse. Spouse may be involved in music, dance, 

drama, or literary profession. This is generally not a favorable position 
for married life. 


4th HOUSE 


Happy marriage, nice comforts, happy. May own land, homes, and 
conveyances. Fine educational degree, desire for moksha. 


Sth HOUSE 

Gets a beautiful, wealthy, or devoted spouse. Gains from spouse's 

family, intelligent, happiness from children, successful business partner- 

ships, happy love affairs, good marriage karma due to activities of pre- 
vious life. 


6th HOUSE 
Marital discord, divorce, sickly spouse, unhappy or unsuccessful 
partnerships. 


7th HOUSE 

Planet in swakshetra (own house). Person will be powerful, hand- 

some, respected. Beautiful, powerful, or special spouse. If ruler of 7th is a 

benefic, marriage is a source of great pleasure, if a malefic, there will be 

major problems, and divorce is likely even though the planet is in its own 
sign. 


8th HOUSE 
Divorce, possible death of marriage partner, no happiness from 
spouse, gains from insurance companies or wills, good life span. 


9th HOUSE 

Spouse is wealthy, beautiful, and devoted. Gains from spouse or 

spouse's family, religious or spiritual marriage partner, lucky, happiness 
from father, gains from guru and elders, may reside in foreign country. 


10th HOUSE 


Powerful or career-oriented spouse, spouse aids in career, success- 
ful career, profession involves travel. 


1 1 th HOUSE 

A kama lord in a kama house fulfills desires and gives strong 

desire nature. Benefits from partners, happy marriage, financial gains 
after marriage. 


12th HOUSE 14 
Divorce, spouse may die early, no happiness from marriage partner, 
unhappy or unsuccessful partnerships, good sex life. There may be a 
strong sexual nature, as the 7th house governs passions, while the 12th 
rules bed pleasures. 


PLANETS IN THE 7TH HOUSE 


The 7th house rules marriage and partnerships of all kinds. It also 
has to do with the passions towards the spouse. Therefore, the sex life 
may be directly affected by any occupying planets. Also, residence in for- 
eign countries is a 7th house matter. Leaving one's native land is viewed 
by the Hindus as a terrible fate. Therefore, malefics in the 7th seem to 
promote this occurrence and at the same time give success abroad. 


The 7th house is a kendra (angle house), which gives prominence 
and strength to any occupying planet. Also, any planet posited within it 
will aspect the 1st house for better or worse, depending on its nature. 


Caution is advised in drawing conclusions about married life until 
aspects, house rulerships, and the Hindu astrological system is tho- 
roughly understood. Also, it must be understood that there is no informa- 
tion given concerning 2nd or 3rd marriages within the system. This is 
perhaps because numerous marriages in India are extremely rare. 


It will be realized after studying planets in the 7th house that 
unless Venus, Jupiter, or the waxing Moon occupies the 7th, the house is 
much more favorable when empty. 


Although it has already been stated that the entire horoscope 
should also be analyzed using the Moon as the 1st house, it is especially 
important when delineating the marriage to note any planets in the 7th 
from the Moon (known as the opposition in Western astrology). These 
influences will have a recognizable bearing on the marriage. For 
example, if the 7th house is afflicted but Venus or Jupiter is in the sign 
opposite the Moon, there will be marital problems but also great benefits. 
Also, the nature of the spouse may, in some cases, be more discernable 
by the characteristics of a planet opposite the Moon than by the 
traditional 7th house indications. Regarding this opposition, or 
any aspect in the Hindu system, degrees are not crucial. Aspects are 
made from sign to sign. The 7th house of the navamsa is also of great 
importance in delineating married life; however, the birth time must be 
accurate within minutes to give the proper house placements. 


RAW_THE SUN IN THE 7th HOUSE 


The Sun is very poorly placed in the 7th house. All of life seems to 


center on the opposite sex for this person. Marriage generally occurs later 
in life than usual. Once the decision is made, there is a strong likelihood 
of troubles or delays. The partner may be of a different nationality or reli- 
gion, and the parents may therefore object, or the dowry is insufficient (in 
India), or some other problem may arise. The spouse is powerful, domi- 
neering, bossy, and manipulative. The person will either aquiesce or fight 
back, but in any case there is very little true marital happiness. Because 
such problems exist, divorce is a strong likelihood. However, this person 
will not be the one to walk out on the marriage, regardless of the circum- 
stances. There is a strong possibility that the person will eventually be 
humiliated or scandalized by the partner. The sex drive is very strong, and 
the person is almost never without a physical relationship. A man with 
this position may have very little or no real respect for women and may 
use them for his sense gratification. The person does not derive all the 
sexual pleasure he desires from his spouse. This may be partly due to the 
fact that he is at the mercy of the domineering spouse. The character of 
the spouse is low or questionable. Hindu scriptures declare the person to 
be immoral in that he will have relations with women other than his 
spouse. They also give out that the person is constantly wandering about 
in an unsettled state of mind. 


UCHCHA & SWAKSHETFZA (exalted and own house)—If the Sun is 
in Aries or Leo in the 7th house, the effects are essentially the same as 
those given above, except that the partner or spouse may be wealthy, 
talented, prosperous, or special. The character of the spouse is better, but 
the events described above are still likely to occur. The significations of 
the Sun and the house it rules would, of course, flourish due to the Sun's 
placement in its own, or exaltation, sign. There would be better confi- 
dence, health, and power. However, these same conditions are harmed by 
the malefic aspect the Sun throws on the 1st house. The person would 
benefit from the father, who will be powerful, prosperous, or well 
respected. 


NEECHA (fallen)—If the Sun is in Libra in the 7th house, it is very 
bad. The person will struggle all his life to keep the marital situation 
under control. He will be totally at the mercy of the spouse, who will be of 
a very weak character. The marriage partner has a terrible self-image 
and a lack of self-confidence. The partner will also be domineering, bossy, 
and manipulative. The person with this placement is consumed with 
the desire for relationship and is practically incapable of being without 
one. He receives little or no happiness from the father, who may suffer or 
die early. There may be problems with the government. 


CHANDRA_THE MOON IN THE 7th HOUSE 


WAXING MOON —If the waxing Moon is in the 7th house, the per- 
son will be extremely happy in his marriage. This is the type of person 


who may remain head-over-heels in love with his partner. The person is 14' 
romantic, highly passionate, and sensual. He will get a spouse who is 
beautiful, powerful, prosperous, and talented or famous. Because the 
Moon rules the mind, the partner is briliant and may be successful in an 
intellectual career. Due to the Moon's aspect on the 1st house, the person 
will be good-looking, happy, healthy, and very attractive to the opposite 
sex. A female with this placement is beautiful and highly desirable to 
men, as there will be an extraordinary softness and femininity about her. 
There is a great emotional nature to the person, and relationships formed 
are strongly bonded. This person is absolutely committed and will almost 
never quit or walk away from a marriage, regardless of circumstances. 
However, the Moon, like Mercury, is a changeable planet, and therefore 
numerous marriages are likely if afflictions exist or if the lord of the 
house is weak. The spouse, though, would be the one to finally give up 
and leave. In the days when Hindu scriptures were written and it was 
possible to keep more than one wife, the waxing Moon in the 7th was an 
indication that the person would have two or more wives. The Moon, 
being in a kendra (angle house), is a great benefit to the overall tenor of 
the horoscope. 


WANING MOON-— If the waning Moon is in the 7th house, the 
effects are similar to what has been mentioned above. However, the 
results are not quite so fortunate. Married life would be subject to greater 
fluctuations, and the person might be jealous and sensitive to being 
slighted by his partner. He would not be so deeply committed to the mar- 
riage if circumstances became very difficult. There is a greater likelihood 
of numerous marriages. Health is not so favorable, and the person might 
be weak or sickly. There would still exist the good looks and attractiveness 
to the opposite sex. Also, the romantic, passionate, and emotional nature 
still exists. The spouse would be less gifted and successful but still quite 
special. 


UCHCHA & SWAKSHETRA (exalted and own house)—If the Moon 
is in Taurus or Cancer in the 7th house, the benefits listed under "waxing 
Moon" are heightened. Marriage will be a source of bliss, and the spouse 
will be rich, famous, beautiful, brilliant, or special. The Moon, being angu- 
lar and in its own, or exaltation, sign, is a tremendous benefit to the 
power of the entire horoscope. The person is happy, healthy, respected, 
and fortunate. If the Moon in either of these signs is waning, the benefits 
are lessened but still quite favorable. 


NEECHA (fallen)—If the Moon is in Scorpio in the 7th house, the 
married life will be very rough. There is likely to be more than one mar- 
riage. The marriage partner may be weak, overly emotional, sickly, and 
lacking in confidence and common sense. The partner might also be 
mentally disturbed, lead a very difficult life, or suffer and die early. The 
person himself will suffer from or be humiliated by his spouse. Health, 


8 


honor or fame, and general well-being are greatly harmed. Mental stabil- 
ity, peace of mind, memory, and common sense are also disturbed. 


KUJA—MARS IN THE 7th HOUSE 


If Mars is in the 7th house, married life is rather spoiled, regardless 
of what sign the planet occupies. The person may marry at an early age 
due to physical attraction. There may be tension, arguments, and fighting 
within the partnership. The possibility of more than one matriage is very 
high. The person will have an extremely powerful sex drive, and unless 
Mars is well aspected may engage in extramarital affairs. Ancient Hindu 
scriptures declare that the person will be "immoral and indulge in sexual 
perversions such as kissing the private parts of another." If Mars is badly 
aspected, homosexuality may result. The sages have also stated that if 
Mars is with Ketu in the 7th, the person will not mind having intercourse 
with a woman in menses. The person's spouse may be aggressive, argu- 
mentative, very physical, and corrupt or sinful. Mars, more than any other 
planet, when afflicted in this house, can cause violence or early death to 
the marriage partner. There is a strong chance that the person will move 
from his native place and enjoy success in a foreign country. Health is 
harmed by Mars' aspect on the 1st house. The person may drink alcohol 
due to the aspect on the 2nd house. Because Mars gains strength in an 
angular house, the significations of Mars are strong. Hence the person 
may own property or buildings and have many prosperous younger 
brothers and sisters. He may also be rash or aggressive. There will be 
difficulties with business partnerships. Mars in the 7th house is an indi- 
cation of Kujadosha, or Mars affliction, where married life and domestic 
harmony is spoiled unless the person marries another with a Kujadosha 
horoscope. The 7th house Kujadosha is nullified only if Mars is in Capri- 
corn or Pisces. (For further details see page 67.) 


UCHCHA & SWAKSHETRA (exalted and own house)—If Mars is in 
Capricorn, Aries, or Scorpio in the 7th house, married life is still harmed, 
and the person may marry more than once. However, the spouse is of 
much better quality and may be wealthy, powerful, prosperous, and spe- 
cial. The best placement for Mars is Capricorn, and because Kujadosha is 
nullified in that sign, there is greater peace in the domestic sphere. The 
person will likely travel to foreign countries and enjoy much success 
there. 


NEECHA (fallen)—If Mars is in Cancer in the 7th house, married 
life is very difficult. The partner may be gross, mean, insensitive, or vio- 
lent. He or she may also be very physical and sexual. The spouse may 
lead a difficult life or die early. The person with this placement is very 
passionate and sexual. Marriage may be filled with fighting and will 
likely end in divorce. 


BUDDHA—MERCURY IN THE 7th HOUSE 


Mercury in the 7th house gives rather mixed results. On one hand, 
the spouse will be young, beautiful, youthful in appearance, wealthy, 
extremely intelligent, and very expressive. However, he or she may at the 
same time be fickle, cunning, and decidedly detached from emotional ties 
to the person. Mercury is a changeable or dual influence, and unless it is 
well aspected or the lord of the 7th house is very strong, there will be more 
than one marriage. There will not be arguments and fighting, but there 
may not be enough of an emotional bond to keep the marriage together 
for a long time. Mercury's aspect on the 1st house is good for wealth, 
happiness, honor, and a fine appearance. The person will be intelligent, 
broadminded, and successful in writing and other intellectual pursuits. 
He may also be very skilled in commerce or trade. Hindu scriptures 
declare that the person will lack vitality and be unsuccessful in sexually 
satisfying his spouse. They also state that he will be very finely dressed. If 
Mercury is afflicted, the person's spouse will be quarrelsome, weak or ner- 
vous, and highly excitable. 


UCHCHA & SWAKSHETRA (exalted and own house)—If Mercury is 
in Virgo or Gemini in the 7th house, the effects are quite similar to what 
has been given above. The main difference is that the spouse would be 
more successful, wealthy, famous, beautiful, and refined. The spouse 
would be brilliant and highly successful in intellectual pursuits such as 
writing, lecturing, astrology, etc. Married life might still suffer from indif- 
ference on the part of the spouse. The person himself would be more 
talented in communication fields. He would also be more favored in the 
1st house affairs of health, happiness, and general well-being. 


NEECHA (fallen)—If Mercury is in Pisces in the 7th house, the per- 
son will have great difficulties in marriage or fail to obtain a spouse at all. 
The marriage partner is nervous, weak, fickle, cunning, and sickly. The 
spouse may also be poor, lack confidence, and be mentally unstable. 
Communication would be very bad and the union weak and troublesome. 
The person himself might reside in a foreign country. 


GURU_JUPITER IN THE 7th HOUSE 


The 7th house is a powerful kendra for the great benefic—Jupiter. 
Nearly all Hindu scriptures assert that an evolutionary leap is made in 
that the person will be far superior to his father. The person will be popu- 
lar, honored, and highly respected. He will attain a high position at a 
young age—in his teens or even during early childhood. The person is 
happy, healthy, and extremely good-looking. He will be compassionate, 
diplomatic, and very aware of other people's feelings. Concerning the 
effects Jupiter will give in this house, especially regarding married life, it 


is crucial to note whether Jupiter is poorly placed, or receiving any 
malefic aspects, for this will greatly alter the results. Also, if the planet is 
retrograde or in the 1st or last degree of the sign, it cannot give the full 
effects expected. By itself, however, if Jupiter is in the 7th house the per- 
son will get a beautiful, wealthy, and devoted spouse, and marriage is a 
source of great joy. The marriage partner is of excellent character, refined, 
and virtuous. Ancient Hindu scriptures declare that a man with this 
placement gets a chaste wife. The spouse may also be religious, philoso- 
phical, and highly spiritual. Business partnerships will be successful and 
prosperous. The person himself leads a fortunate and charmed life. 


UCHCHA & SWAKSHETRA (exalted and own house)—If Jupiter is 
in Cancer, Pisces, or Sagittarius in the 7th house, the person will have a 
wonderful marriage and the benefits above are multiplied. He will get a 
spouse who is rich, beautiful, or famous. The person will be very lucky 
throughout life. He will also have beautiful children and gain much hap- 
piness from them. This person will be spiritual or religious and may 
engage in meditation, the chanting of mantras, or other such enlighten- 
ing practices. He will enjoy a good deal of long distance travel and may 
visit sacred sights and holy lands. 


NEECHA (fallen)—If Jupiter is in Capricorn in the 7th house, mar- 
ried life is disturbed and there may be numerous marriages. The person 
may reside in a foreign country. Health will be poor, and there may be 
allergies or liver ailments. The person is unlucky and unpopular He may 
have a great many enemies. His spouse may be immoral, sinful, or have a 
distorted view of religion. The spouse may also lead a life of suffering. 


SUKRA_VENUS IN THE 7th HOUSE 


If Venus is in the 7th house, the person will be fortunate and happy 
in his marriage. He will get a spouse who is refined, beautiful, or wealthy. 
That person will also be sweet, romantic, and sensitive, and may be an 
artist by profession. The marriage is one of love and will endure the test of 
time. However, many astrologers, even certain ancient sages, have stated 
that this placement, though indicating a prosperous or special spouse, 
is in fact very harmful to married life. It is said that there will be intrigues, 
disappointments, and loss or death of the marriage partner. Although 
this is sometimes the case, it generally happens when the lord of the 
house is afflicted or when Venus is poorly placed by sign or badly 
aspected. Other results of Venus in the 7th are as follows: The person 
will be highly sensuous and passionate. He is also artistic, popular, and 
very well liked. He will greatly benefit from the family of his spouse. 
Venus in this kendra gives a great gentleness, kindness, and a forgiving 
nature. Because Venus will aspect the 1st house, the person is 
beautiful, and he is magnetic to the opposite sex. He is also happy, 


famous. If Venus is afflicted, there may be loose morals, extramarital 
affairs, and more than one marriage. The person would be highly pas- 
sionate, less discriminating in love matters, and more indulgent in all 
kinds of sensual pleasures. There would be a great number of love affairs, 
as opportunities would constantly present themselves. Hindu scriptures 
declare that if Venus is in the 7th house, the person will be very fond of 
sexual union and kissing on the mouth. They do not attack his morals 
except if Venus is afflicted. 


UCHCHA & SWAKSHETRA (exalted and own house)—If Venus is 
in Pisces, Taurus, or Libra in the 7th house, the benefits described above 
are magnified. Marriage is blissful and long-lasting. The spouse will be 
rich, famous, or beautiful, and may be a great artist. The person is happy 
and fortunate, and enjoys many luxuries and comforts in life. He may be a 
renowned artist. He is also beautiful and very popular. He will possess an 
uncompromising love for his spouse. 


NEECHA (fallen)—If Venus is in Virgo in the 7th house, it is very 
bad for marital affairs. This is an especially bad placement, as both the 
7th house and its karaka, Venus, are ruined. The spouse may be artistic 
and good-looking but sickly and greatly lacking in confidence. The spouse 
may also lead a hard life or die early. Unless the lord of the 7th house is 
powerful or there are benefic aspects to Venus, married life can be mis- 
erable or torturous. Domestic peace may be a constant uphill struggle. 
Happiness is disturbed, and unless the rest of the horoscope is strong or 
well disposed, life may lose its sweetness. The person will have an ex- 
tremely strong sex drive and may suffer from venereal diseases or ail- 
ments involving the reproductive system. This placement alone does not 
indicate extramarital affairs. 


SAKI SATURN IN THE 7th HOUSE 


If Saturn is in the 7th house, relationships and married life decid- 
edly suffer. Also, there are a good many hardships throughout life. 
Saturn in any kendra gives many major ups and downs in life, but this 
position is more difficult than the other angles, as Saturn will aspect such 
crucial houses as the lst, 4th, and 9th. These houses govern mother, 
happiness, education, father, luck ®& fortune, religion, health, 
recognition, and general well-being, to name but a few significations. 
Oddly, Saturn gets dik bola, or directional strength, in this house 
making it the best and most powerful placement for the planet. 
Therefore Saturn, by this source of strength, is quite strong and capable 
of giving great benefits regarding its own significations. Hence the person 
will be mature, disciplined, spiritual, and long-lived. He may, however, be 
poor, unrecognized, lacking in confidence, and forced to endure much 
hardship. He may marry later in life than is usual, and the partner may 
be much older. There is a very strong chance of more than one 


difficult. The person may be rather unloved in the domestic sphere and is 
subject to being victimized, treated unfairly, or abandoned by the spouse. 
Unless Saturn is well placed by sign, aspects, or house rulership, the 
partner is likely to be thin, poor, miserable, or forced to lead a life of hard- 
ship. There will also be problems in business partnerships. Hindu scrip- 
tures assert that the person with this placement will be immoral regard- 
ing sex, will hire prostitutes, and will engage in sexual perversions 
such as kissing someone's private parts. A strong indulgence in sexual 
activity is therefore common, and if Saturn is aspected by malefics, 
homosexuality may result. Saturn in the 7th denotes residence in a 
foreign land, and the person easily achieves distinction and honors in 
that country. 


UCHCHA & SWAKSHETRA (exalted and own sign)—If Saturn is in 
Libra, Capricorn, or Aquarius in the 7th house, the results will be 
similar to what has been given above, except that the marriage partner 
will be wealthy, powerful, prosperous, and talented. The spouse may 
also be mature and spiritual. Marriage may be more stable, but major 
problems are still indicated. The person will live a very long life. The 
significations of Saturn will flourish, and the person may be a leader or 
authority figure. 


NEECHA (fallen)—If Saturn is in Aries in the 7th house, the person 
will suffer greatly in his marriage or never obtain a spouse at all. He may 
marry someone who is sick or who becomes paralyzed. The partner may 
be a great deal older than himself and have to endure terrible suffering or 
die early. Longevity is greatly decreased, and life itself is filled with hard- 
ship. The person may be very lonely. Sexual passions may be intense. 


RAHU—THE NORTH NODE IN THE 7th HOUSE 


If Rahu is in the 7th house there will be disturbances in married 
life. Domestic harmony is greatly lacking, and there will constantly arise 
issues with the spouse to be dealt with. The person will have compulsive 
and insatiable desires to be in relationship. The marriage partner may be 
powerful, domineering, or worldly and of a strong desire nature. Ancient 
Hindu scriptures assert that unless Rahu is beneficially aspected, the 
person will lose his first wife and then remarry. 


UCHCHA (exalted)—If Rahu is in Gemini or Virgo in the 7th house 
(or stationary direct or in forward motion), married life is disturbed as 
described above. However, the spouse will be extremely powerful, wealthy, 
worldly, or spiritual. 


KETU—THE SOUTH NODE IN THE 7th HOUSE 


If Ketu occupies the 7th house married life is harmed, as there are 


partner may be weak, sickly, or lacking in confidence. The spouse may 1& 


also be weird, strange, or deceitful. He or she may also be spiritual, psy- 
chic, or of an ascetic or discriminating nature. 


UCHCHA (exalted)—If Ketu is in Gemini or Virgo in the 7th house 
(or stationary direct or in forward motion), marital life is disturbed. How- 
ever, the spouse may be especially intelligent, special, or spiritual. The 
marriage partner may also be of an ascetic and extremely detached and 
discriminating disposition. 


8TH HOUSE 15 
MRITYU BRAVA—HOUSE OF DEATH 


The 8th house corresponds to a water sign and is therefore a 
house of moksha (self-realization or final liberation). 


Life, longevity, death, wills & legacies, insurance benefits, partner's 
finances, money from partner (including alimony), accidents, long-term 
illnesses, chronic diseases, disgrace, misfortune, intuition, occult sciences, 
secret matters, sexual strength, sexual diseases. 


The 8th house is a dusthana—an evil or harmful house. It is worse 
than the 6th and nearly equal in destructiveness to the 12th. Planets in 
the 8th will suffer, as will the houses they rule. Problems indicated by the 
8th are intense and do not improve in time (aspects and sign placements 
must, however, be considered). 


Mrityu bhava is generally thought of as the house of death. This is 
because it governs the manner and cause of death and because it de- 
stroys whatever it comes in contact with. However, the 8th is, in fact, a 
house of life (along with the 3rd). A good 8th gives long life, a bad 8th 
short life. A powerful 8th means a person will be energetic and full of life. 
Notice that in all world champion boxers the most significant aspect of 
the horoscope is the 8th. Muhammed Ali, who has 5 planets in the 8th, 
simply could not have the life force knocked out of him, even briefly. 


Among other things, this house rules the partner's money. Threre- 
fore it reveals problems arising in marriage over the handling of income. 
Regarding alimony, it will show what a woman may receive after divorce. 
As for the ex-husband, if his 8th house is severely afflicted, he will be 
ordered to pay more than he can afford. 


The 8th is also a moksha house, which stirs an interest in moksha 
or final liberation. More than the other moksha houses (the 4th & 12th), 
it involves secret or occult knowledge. 


The karaka, or indicator, of the 8th is Saturn. 


Note—Formal texts contain the technical rule that the lords of 2nd, 8th, and 12th are neu- 
tral as rulers. They also separately specify that the 8th and 12th rulers are the most 
malefic of all. Through experience, the latter is found to be true. 


The ruler of the 8th house placed in the: 


lst HOUSE 

Unhealthy, poor appearance, accident prone, bad for married life 

(due to 8th lord's aspect on the 7th house), ill-natured, hardships in life, 

may be accused or charged in court cases, difficult childhood—poor start 

in life, long-term illnesses if other indications agree, spiritual, ascetic, 
interested in occult subjects. 


2nd HOUSE 

Poor, unhappy family life, poor speaker, speaks lies, bad education, 

poor vision in right eye, eats bad foods, limited imagination, problems in 

throat. Long and active life, as 8th lord aspects its own house from this 
position. 


3rd HOUSE 

Strained relations with siblings, sibling leads difficult life, cannot 

fulfill desires, fearful, cowardly, few adventures, unsuccessful efforts, defect 

in right ear. No ability in or enjoyment of music, dance, or drama. No 
literary talent. 


4th HOUSE 

A moksha lord in a moksha house gives a spiritual nature. Difficul- 

ties with the mother, no maternal inheritance, unhappy, few worldly com- 

forts, car problems, breaks in education, hard to obtain degree, discordant 

endings, few fixed assets, career problems (the 8th lord aspects the 10th 

house from this position), owns no land or home, occult subjects may be 

dear to the heart, strong intuition, long life, good sexual strength, becomes 
more spiritual or ascetic at the close of life. 


Sth HOUSE 

Few children, friction with child, dull mind, mental problems—no 

peace of mind, difficult in passing exams, bad investments, immoral, 

unrighteous, unhappy love affairs, no credit from previous incarnation 

brought over into this life, long life, gains from partner's wealth, benefits 
from insurance policies, good sexual strength. 


6th HOUSE 15 
Unhealthy, defeats enemies and competitors (malefics in the 6th 
are good), bad jobs, bad servants, short-lived, poor, no gains from uncle. 


7th HOUSE 

Marriage problems, divorce, unhappy or unsuccessful partnerships, 

spouse may endure life of hardship or chronic illness, spouse has no 
confidence. 


8th HOUSE 

Planet in swakshetra (own house). Long life, lively & energetic, lives 

life to the fullest, enjoys wealth from marriage partner. Money from wills. 

legacies, or insurance policies. Spiritual leanings, studies occult subjects, 

good for moksha, powerful intuition, psychic, good sexual strength, sexu- 
ally attractive. 


9th HOUSE 

Long-lived, bad relations with father, father may die early or lead 

hard life, no luck, no solutions to problems, no appreciation of religion or 

philosophy, no faith, no gains from elders or gurus. This is a bad place- 
ment, since it spoils bhagya bhava—the house of fortune. 


10th HOUSE 

Frustration in trying to find one's dharma, career problems, merit 

goes unoticed, career changes, no fame, commits bad deeds, unhappy, 

breaks in education, hard to obtain degree, cruel-harted, long lived. This 

is a bad placement, as the 4th house is also spoiled by the aspect from the 
10th. 


11th HOUSE 

Long-lived, poor, trouble with eldest sibling, eldest sibling leads 

life of hardship, bad friends, ascetic or spiritual friends, bad relations 

with relatives (the 8th lord aspects the 3rd from the 11th), few 

opportunities, difficulty fulfilling desires and ambitions. There may be 
gains from wills, legacies, or insurance companies. 


12th HOUSE 

A moksha lord in moksha house gives a strong spiritual nature. 

This is a good placement for meditation, asceticism, and spiritual life. 

Many expenses and debts, short life, no money from marriage partner, 

little sexual strength. Diseases of the anus, left ear, and left eye. Plain 
bedding, troubles in foreign countries. 


PLANETS IN THE 8TH HOUSE 


The 8th is the house of life and longevity. Therefore in India, where 
diseases are so often fatal and so many die young, this is a very signifi- 


cant part of a horoscope. However, the 8th is significant in several other 
matters. For one thing, this is a house of moksha, or final liberation, and 
planets here, when well aspected, will give such an interest. However, the 
8th is a secretive or hidden house, and therefore the person may be more 
involved in the field of occult or metaphysical studies than actual enlight- 
enment. A great fascination with the underlying theories and the prac- 
tices of enlightenment and spiritual life is thus indicated. 


The 8th house also governs sexual strength, which includes sexual 
attractiveness. Sex symbols such as Marilyn Monroe, Paul Newman, John 
Travolta, etc., therefore have extraordinary 8th houses. It should be 
remembered, though, that this is not the house of sexual pleasure (which 
belongs to the 12th house.) Nor does it give sexual passion, which is a 
matter of the 7th house, Venus, and Mars. Because it rules sexual 
strength, when the house is afflicted there will be venereal diseases and 
illnesses involving the reproductive system. 


As a dusthana or evil house, the 8th destroys any occupying planet 
unless it is posited in its own, or exaltation, sign. The house itself may 
benefit, depending on the particular influence, but the significations of 
the planet and the houses it rules are ruined. Therefore, a horoscope is 
generally more fortunate if the 8th house is empty. 


The 8th is the house of life, and many occupying planets give great 
vitality, energy, and aliveness. Long-term illnesses and chronic diseases 
are also governed by the 8th, as well as insurance benefits, alimony, and 
money from the spouse. Accidents are said to be ruled by the 8th but 
this is somewhat general, as the ascendant plays the greatest importance 
in such matters. 


Predicting longevity is complicated and may be rather inaccurate if 
the dasa bhuktis (periods and sub-periods) are not considered. For 
although the 8th house may be strong, a dasa bhukti of two 8th house 
planets can put an end to the life if one or both of the planets are malefic 
or badly afflicted. 


RAW—THE SUN IN THE 8th HOUSE 


The Sun in the 8th house gives a medium life span unless it is very 
well or very poorly disposed. As the significations of the Sun are spoiled in 
this house, there may be difficulties with the father, who may have to 
endure much suffering or die early. Eyesight may be poor, since the Sun 
and the 2nd house both rule vision, and the 2nd house is harmed by the 
Sun's malefic aspect. This position often causes chronic or long-term 
illnesses, especially affecting the reproductive system. As the Sun rules 
power and authority and is a karaka of the career, there are worries, ups 
and downs, and difficulties in these areas in general. However, the person 


may be quite successful at the same time. Hindu scriptures declare that I. 
the person will have very few children. In practice, this is often true even 
though the Sun and the 8th house have almost nothing to do with chil- 
dren. The ancient sages make the connection between children and the 
Sun because the Sun is one of the karakas of the 9th house. The 9th 
house, they maintain, influences children because it is the 5th house 
from the 5th. Also, it is noticed that the Sun in the 8th casts a malefic 
aspect onto the 2nd house, which rules the family. Certain scriptures 
have stated that there may be accidents involving the head. The Sun in 
the 8th is an excellent position for the study of mysticism, astrology, and 
the occult sciences. The person is fascinated by these subjects and can 
excel in such endeavors. He also succeeds in any research field. He may, in 
his lifetime, be involved in hidden or secretive matters. The person is very 
intuitive or psychic. Regarding benefits through wills, legacies, and insur- 
ance companies, the Sun in general is favorable, but aspects will make a 
great difference. The Sun must be well aspected or there will be little 
financial benefit from the spouse. 


UCHCHA & SWAKSHETRA (exalted and own house)—If the Sun is 
in Aries or Leo in the 8th house, the person will be very long-lived. He may 
have difficulties with his father, but they are not as intense as described 
above. There may be a great interest in the occult or metaphysical field. 
The person may also be dedicated on the path of enlightenment. There is 
a good chance of inheriting wealth through wills and legacies. The person 
will benefit from the wealth of his spouse, who will have good earning 
ability. In case of divorce, the person receives plenty of alimony. This 
placement will lessen the chance of chronic or long-term illnesses unless 
there are malefic aspects to the Sun. The reproductive system is strong 
and the person is sexually attractive as long as the Sun is not afflicted. 
The person may benefit from insurance policies. 


NEECHA (fallen) —If the Sun is in Libra in the 8th house, the per- 
son may have chronic or long-term illnesses and die at a younger-than- 
average age. He may fear death, which, in this case, may be a difficult 
experience. He will have problems with his reproductive system or con- 
tract venereal diseases. He will have trouble on account of joint finances 
with his spouse. If divorce occurs, there will be little alimony or difficulties 
collecting payments. The person will have a bad relationship with his 
father, who may lead a life of suffering or die early. Eyesight will be very 
poor. There may be accidents more often than normal, and they may 
involve the head. The person will be denied inheritances. He may not be 
sexually attractive. 


CHANDRA—THE MOON IN THE 8th HOUSE 


WAXING MOON—The Moon, being the most important and per- 
sonal planetary influence in Hindu astrology, is poorly placed in the 8th 


house. One's fortune and general well-being are greatly harmed. There will 

be many health problems, and if the Moon is afflicted there is a strong 
chance they will be chronic or long-term. Peace of mind is greatly dis- 
turbed, and the person may have a weak or wavering mind. Intelligence, 
however, is not harmed, and due to the Moon's favorable aspect on the 
2nd house, the person will be both knowledgeable and wealthy. He will do 
well in any research field. There may be an oversensitivity and lack of 
confidence, as well as other psychological complexes, which do not 
improve in time. The relationship with the mother is marred, and her life 
may be difficult or filled with suffering. If the Moon is heavily afflicted, 
she may die early. Eyesight may be poor, as the Moon rules vision. The 
person is very sexually attractive and may have a powerful reproductive 
system. He is very intuitive or psychic, and there will be a strong interest in 
occult or metaphysical subjects. Although the 8th is a moksha house, 
this placement is rarely found in the horoscopes of spiritual seekers. 
The person will gain from wills, legacies, insurance benefits, and the 
partner's wealth. In case of divorce, alimony will be plentiful. Since the 
Moon rules females, there may be difficulties with the fair sex, or with 
the wife in a man's horoscope. 


WANING MOON—The waning Moon in the 8th house gives even 
less favorable results than what has been mentioned above. The negative 
effects are heightened and the benefits lessened or nullified. There is less 
chance of gain through wills, legacies, and the partner's wealth. There 
may actually be problems arising from financial dealings with the spouse. 
Health problems and difficulties with the mother are more severe, as are 
mental disturbances. There may also be menstrual disorders. There is still 
likely to be an interest in occult or metaphysical subjects, and a talent for 
research. 


UCHCHA & SWAKSHETRA (exalted and own house)—If the Moon 
is in Taurus or Cancer in the 8th house, the person will be extremely 
long-lived. He will be highly intuitive or psychic. He may be involved in the 
occult or metaphysical sciences. He may be dedicated on the path of mok- 
sha and will have many mystical or spiritual experiences. His death will 
be peaceful and painless. He will be enthusiastic and vibrant. He will 
inherit large sums of money through wills and legacies, and gain great 
wealth from his spouse. There will be no chronic or long-term illnesses. 
The person is sexually powerful, sensuous, and sexy. This is a fine place- 
ment for the spiritual seeker. Second house matters will be highly fortu- 
nate due to the aspect cast onto that house. If the Moon is waning, the 
benefits are considerably lessened but still positive. 


NEECHA (fallen)—If the Moon is in Scorpio in the 8th house, the 
person's longevity is greatly shortened and his life is filled with all 
kinds of miseries. The significations of the Moon are completely 
destroyed. There will be no peace of mind, mental stability, or common 


person will have a very poor memory. The relationship with the mother is 1 
ruined, and she may lead a life of suffering or die early. The person him- 
self is beset with chronic or long-term illnesses. There may be venereal 
diseases, menstrual disorders, prostate troubles, and other sexual-system 
dysfunctions. The person has no sexual strength. There may be problems 
arising from joint finances, and the person gains no wealth from his 
spouse. He may be denied benefits from wills and legacies. In case of 
divorce, alimony is spoiled. Whenever the Moon is fallen, it is a tremend- 
ous all-around detriment, but the combination of the Moon being fallen 
and in a dusthana house greatly intensifies the negative effect. Fallen 
planets are powerless to throw benefic aspects. Therefore, second house 
matters are in no way enhanced by the Moon's aspect. 


KUJA—MARS IN THE 8th HOUSE 


Mars, as a malefic in the 8th house, shortens the life span and in 
certain cases indicates sudden death by accident, weapons, or violence. 
There may be illnesses involving the reproductive system, such as uri- 
nary, ovary, or prostate problems. The person will, however, be excited and 
enthusiastic about life. He will also be sexually attractive. The person may 
have diseases due to weak or impure blood. If Mars is afflicted, these ail- 
ments may be chronic. The person may have few or no younger brothers 
and sisters, and he may have difficulties in his relationship with them. 
The immediate younger sibling may have a difficult life. The person may 
not own any land or property unless the 4th house is well disposed. He 
may have bad eyesight and problems regarding money, education, and 
family life due to Mars' malefic aspect on the 2nd house. The person will 
not benefit from wills, legacies, or insurance companies. He will also gain 
little wealth from his spouse, and there may often be arguments or trou- 
bles arising from dealings involving joint finances. In case of divorce, this 
placement is not favorable for alimony. Hindu scriptures have stated that 
the person will have a scarred or deformed body. This may be because 
Mars is a violent planet and the 8th house is said to rule accidents. The 
ascendant must, of course, be considered, as it plays the largest role in 
such matters. The sages have also declared that the person will lust after 
women of ill repute or have extramarital affairs. If Mars is well aspected or 
ruling good houses, the greatest gusto for life is indicated. Mars in the 
8th house is an indication of Kujadosha, where married life is disturbed 
or ends in divorce unless the person marries another with a Kujadosha 
horoscope. The exception to this rule occurs if Mars in this house is 
posited in the sign of Cancer (for further details see page 67). 

UCHCHA & SWAKSHETRA (exalted and own house)—If Mars is in 
Capricorn, Scorpio, or Aries in the 8th house, the person will be extremely 
long-lived. He will have a powerful reproductive system and be sexually 
attractive. He will be very intuitive. He may be fascinated by the occult or 
metaphysical sciences. He may gain through inheritances and the mar- 


riage partner's wealth. The person will have a tremendous vitality and 
gusto for life. He is spared chronic or long term illnesses. Kujadosha is in 
effect, and the person's married life is disturbed and may result in divorce 
unless the person marries another with a Kujadosha horoscope (for 
further details see page 67). 


NEECHA (fallen)—If Mars is in Cancer in the 8th house, the nega- 
tive effects already mentioned are intensified. The person may suffer from 
chronic or long-term illnesses. His life span is greatly shortened. He will 
have a weak sexual system and may suffer from diseases of the reproduc- 
tive system. Problems with the marriage partner will arise on account of 
joint finances. The person gains no financial benefits from the spouse, 
who may be powerless in earning ability. There are no gains through wills 
and legacies. In case of divorce, alimony is spoiled. The 8th house Kujado- 
sha is nullified when Mars is in the sign of Cancer. Therefore, married life 
is unharmed by this placement. 


BUDDHA_MERCURY IN THE 8th HOUSE 


Mercury is the one planet whose significations are not totally de- 
stroyed by the evil 8th house unless the planet is otherwise poorly dis- 
posed. The houses it rules will of course be ruined. But that aside, this 
placement gives some powerful benefits. If Mercury is in the 8th house, 
the person will be famous or hold a high title. He will be liked by all and be 
very well respected for his many fine qualities. He is well mannered, cour- 
teous, and a product of fine breeding. He will have an excellent reputation 
and enjoy a very long life. Because Mercury will aspect the 2nd house, the 
person will be knowledgeable and learned. He may also be wealthy and a 
good speaker for the same reason. Family life is favored, and Hindu scrip- 
tures state that the person will have many children. There is a refinement 
and strong integrity about the person. He will, however, be sexually 
weak, as Mercury is a neutral planet. This does not mean that there will 
be reproductive diseases but that his sexual strength and sexual 
attractiveness are minimal. The person will benefit from wills, legacies, and 
wealth earned by the spouse. In case of divorce, there will be good alimony. 
The person is intuitive and may be interested in mysticism or occult 
subjects. If Mercury is in any way afflicted in the 8th house, there will be 
speech problems. nervous disorders, and mental disturbances. The 
person may also have a dull intellect, learning difficulties, and a great 
lack of confidence. He might also have a troubled or interrupted 
education. Hindu scriptures declare that the person will be in an 
authority position like that of a king, judge, or magistrate. The sages 
have not defined why Mercury, out of all the planets, is spared destruction 
and is able to give such positive results in this evil house. It is possibly 
due to the fact that Mercury is an adaptable and neutral planet. 


UCHCHA & SWAKSHETRA (exalted & own house)—If Mercury is in 


Virgo or Gemini in the 8th house, the benefits described above are 16:3 
heightened. The person lives to a ripe old age and enjoys an impeccable 
reputation. His spouse may earn great wealth, which he benefits from. He 
may also inherit large sums of money through wills and legacies. There 
could be occasional financial windfalls from insurance companies. The 
person will be sexually powerful and sexy. He will be vital, enthusiastic, 
and full of life. He will be intelligent, learned, and talented in the research 
field. He may be gifted in occult or metaphysical subjects. He is highly 
intuitive. The person is protected from chronic or long-term illnesses. 


NEECHA (fallen)—If Mercury is in Pisces in the 8th house, the per- 
son's life span is greatly shortened. The person will also be sexually weak. 
There may be chronic or long-term illnesses, especially involving the 
reproductive system. There will be difficulties arising from joint finances, 
and there may be few benefits from the partner's wealth. The person will 
be denied any inheritances from wills and legacies. The significations of 
Mercury are destroyed and there may be diseases of the nervous system, 
mental problems, speech defects, learning disabilities, and an interrupted 
education. If divorce occurs there will be little alimony, or problems receiv- 
ing such payments. The person will lack confidence and may have a great 
fear of death. 


GURU_JUPITER IN THE 8th HOUSE 


If Jupiter is in the 8th house, the person will live a very long life 
and die a peaceful or painless death. He will be sexually powerful and very 
sexually attractive. He is also extremely vital and lively. There will be a 
good deal of wealth coming from the marriage partner. The person may 
benefit from wills, legacies, and insurance policies. In case of divorce, 
alimony will be plentiful. Because the significations of Jupiter are spoiled, 
there may be few children, or difficulties in the relationship with them. 
The first born child may lead a difficult life. There may be no appreciation 
of religion; however, the person may be quite interested or involved in the 
occult or metaphysical field. He will have very strong intuition. This is an 
excellent placement for an astrologer, especially due to the aspect made 
onto the 2nd house, which makes the person knowledgeable, well versed, 
and capable of retaining information. Family life is also favored because of 
the aspect to the 2nd. Hindu sages are divided regarding the effects of 
this position on wealth. This is because Jupiter, which is the karaka of 
the 2nd house, is harmed yet at the same time is throwing a very favor- 
able aspect on the house itself. In any case, luck and fortune are marred, 
and the person must earn whatever benefits he enjoys in life through his 
own work. Jupiter in this house gives protection from accidents and 
chronic or long-term illnesses. There would also be no ailments of the 
reproductive system unless Venus is very badly afflicted. The person may 
suffer from allergies or liver problems. Hindu scriptures assert that the 
person will be sinful and base, and engage in bad deeds. This is 


ably because he is in no way religious. As Jupiter is the karaka of the 9th 
house, there may be difficulties with the father, gurus, and spiritual 
teachers. 


UCHCHA & SWAKSHETRA (exalted & own house)—If Jupiter is in 
Cancer, Sagittarius, or Pisces in the 8th house, the benefits given above 
are magnified and the negative results listed are diminished. The person 
will live an extremely long life and gain great financial benefits from his 
spouse. The person may be a sex symbol. There is not only an interest and 
ability in occult or metaphysical subjects but a desire for enlightenment 
or final liberation. The person will be highly intuitive or psychic. There 
will be wealth from wills and legacies. The significations of Jupiter are not 
harmed as much as they would be if Jupiter were in a different sign in the 
8th. The person's sense of religion, though more bent on the occult or non- 
traditional philosophy, is genuine and in no way distorted. His children, 
especially the firstborn may be mystical or involved in the occult. 


NEECHA (fallen)—If Jupiter is in Capricorn in the 8th house, the 
significations of Jupiter are devastated. Children, especially the firstborn, 
will be a source of grief or suffering. The children will lead difficult lives or 
die early. The relationship with them may be filled with tension. The per- 
son may despise religion and philosophy, and he may be an atheist. He 
will have no benefits from gurus or elders. He will be devoid of wisdom 
and profound knowledge. He will have no luck, fortune, or easy opportun- 
ities in his life unless the 9th house is extremely powerful. There may be 
chronic illnesses, especially involving the liver. The sexual system is weak 
and there is little sex appeal. There may be a fear of death, and the per- 
son's life span is greatly shortened. He will have troubles on account of 
joint finances and will gain no benefit from the wealth of his spouse. Nor 
will he benefit from wills, legacies, and insurance policies. In case of 
divorce, alimony is minimal or problematic. 


SUKRA_’VENUS IN THE 8th HOUSE 


If Venus is in the 8th house, the person will live a very long life and 
die a peaceful or painless death. This placement is also very fortunate in 
terms of wealth and happiness. This may seem confusing, since Venus is 
the planet governing happiness and should be spoiled in this dusthana. 
However, as the house of life, the 8th receives such a joyous and exuberant 
energy from Venus that the person is constantly delighted. He is extremely 
enthusiastic, vibrant, and happy to be alive. Wealth is favored due to the 
positive aspect cast onto the 2nd house. Also, there will be great financial 
gains from the spouse. The person will be extraordinarily sensual and 
sexually attractive. Venus and the 8th house both govern the reproductive 
system, and therefore if Venus is afflicted there is a likelihood of sexual 
diseases, urinary problems, or prostate ailments. If divorce occurs, there 
will be good alimony. This position is decidedly bad for love matters and 


marriage, and the person will suffer on such account. If the 7th house is 16 
also afflicted, marital affairs may be disastrous. Venus in the 8th could 
also indicate a marriage partner who is involved in the occult or other 
secretive affairs. The person is generally protected from accidents, but the 
ascendant must also be analyzed. Hindu scriptures declare that if Venus 

is afflicted, the person will be highly sexed, adulterous, scandalized, and 
addicted to bad habits. 


UCHCHA & SWAKSHETRA (exalted and own house)—If Venus is 
in Pisces, Libra, or Taurus in the 8th house, the benefits which have been 
described above are heightened. The negative results mentioned are les- 
sened or nullified. The person will be long-lived and happy. He will be 
extremely sensuous and may be considered a sex symbol. He may inherit 
great wealth through wills and legacies. He will also gain great wealth from 
his marriage partner. Married life will not be harmed as much as it would 
be if Venus were in another sign in the 8th. The person's spouse may be a 
renowned person in the field of mysticism, the occult, or some other se- 
cretive work. The person is very intuitive or psychic. He is vibrant and 
brimming with enthusiasm. 


NEECHA (fallen)—If Venus is in Virgo in the 8th house, the person 
will contract venereal diseases, urinary ailments, or other illnesses con- 
nected with the reproductive system. Love affairs and married life are 
shattered. There may be problems with the spouse arising from dealings 
with joint finances. The person will not benefit at all from the partner's 
wealth, and the spouse may be powerless to earn. In case of divorce, ali- 
mony is minimal or troublesome. There may be ailments of a chronic 
nature. There may be a great fear of death, and the experience itself may be 
horrendous. The life span is greatly shortened. The significations of 
Venus—happiness, luxuries, and comforts, etc., are all destroyed. The 
person may be highly sexed even though the reproductive system is weak 
and sex appeal lacking. He would also be open to scandal in love affairs. 


SANISATURNIN THE 8th HOUSE 


Saturn, the planet of longevity, in the house of the same gives a very 
long life. There are, however, a great many hardships, and life is tedious 
and filled with struggle, adversity, and responsibility. This is mostly due to 
the fact that Saturn will aspect the 2nd, 5th, and 10th houses. This nega- 
tively affects such important significations as knowledge, money, love 
affairs, pleasures, children, career, and fame, to name but a few. The 
person may eat bad foods, have defective eyesight, and suffer from speech 
or dental problems, all from the malefic aspect made to the 2nd house. 
Hindu scriptures state that the person may have asthma, rheumatism, or 
lung diseases. They also say he will have piles or other diseases of the 
anus. The latter is a 12th house issue but could perhaps occur due to 
eating bad foods. With a malefic such as Saturn in this house, there could 


be problems arising from financial dealings with the spouse. In any case, 
the person will not likely benefit financially from his marriage partner. If 
divorce occurs, there might be little alimony or trouble receiving payments. 
In a man's chart, he could be ordered to pay more than he could afford or 
more than what is logically fair. This placement generally denies wills and 
legacies as well as insurance benefits. Although a long life is indicated, 
Saturn is a conservative and restrictive influence and tones down one's 
liveliness. If Saturn is afflicted, there could be chronic illnesses or sexual 
diseases. 


UCHCHA & SWAKSHETRA (exalted and own house)—If Saturn is 
in Libra, Capricorn, or Aquarius in the 8th house, the person will live an 
extremely long life. He will be vital, lively, and sexually powerful. He may 
gain from wills, legacies, and insurance benefits. Life may still be tedious, 
as mentioned above, since the 2nd, 5th, and 10th houses are harmed by 
Saturn's malefic aspect. There may be an interest in occult sciences or 
metaphysical subjects. 


NEECIL4 (fallen)—If Saturn is in Aries in the 8th house, the 
person's longevity is greatly diminished. He may die a difficult or violent 
death, especially if he enters a Saturn dasa during his life. He may also 
suffer from chronic or long-term illnesses. He will be sexually weak and 
may develop or contract ailments involving the reproductive system. He is 
denied wills, legacies, and insurance benefits. There may be problems 
receiving money from the marriage partner. In case of divorce, alimony is 
spoiled. 


RAHU.THE NORTH NODE IN THE 8th HOUSE 


If Rahu is in the 8th house, the person's happiness is spoiled. 
There will be a lack of domestic harmony, and family life suffers. Thus, 
there may be separation from the spouse or family. With this placement 
it is especially important to note whether Rahu is in the sign of a friend 
or in Jupiter's signs Sagittarius, and Pisces.. For in these signs it will 
give fairly good results regarding longevity and other 8th house affairs. 
Rahu in the 8th generally gives a spiritual influence but limits one's 
ability to achieve worldly benefits. The person may gain little wealth 
from his spouse and may experience difficulties involving joint finances. 
In the beneficial signs mentioned, Rahu gives strong sexual 
attractiveness. If placed in an inimical sign, there may be reproductive 
ailments and other long-term illnesses. 


UCHCHA (exalted)—If Rahu is in Gemini or Virgo in the 8th house 
(or stationary direct or in forward motion), the person will be attractive 
as a sex symbol and live to a ripe old age. He will greatly benefit from his 
partner's wealth and achieve a good deal of worldly success. The person 
will have great intuition and may be interested in occult subjects. He 


have a strong sexual system and be protected from chronic illnesses. 
10ETU_THE SOUTH NODE IN THE 8th HOUSE 


If Ketu is in the 8th house, the person will gain no benefits from 
his partner's wealth. There may be strange chronic or long-term illnesses 
and problems with the reproductive system. Sexual attractiveness is very 
weak. The person may have good intuition; however, Ketu's significations 
as moksha-karaka and gnana-karaka are spoiled, and therefore the per- 
son may have a strong materialistic bent. He may only wish to acknowl- 
edge that which is of the physical. This placement also harms domestic 
happiness and causes family separations. Whenever the nodes are in the 
2nd or 8th house, happiness is quite disturbed. 


UCHCHA (exalted)—If Ketu is in Gemini or Virgo in the 8th house, 
the person will have great intuition and live a very long life. There may be 
an interest in occult or mystical subjects. The person will gain a good deal 
of wealth from his marriage partner. He will also have a strong reproduc- 
tive system and be sexually attractive. 


9TH HOUSE 
BHAGYA BHAVA—HOUSE OF FORTUNE 


The 9th house corresponds to a fire sign and is therefore a house of 
dharma (duty or life purpose). 


Luck, fortune, father, religion, philosophy, faith, wisdom, worship, 
guru, grandchildren, long journeys, travel, law, higher knowledge of all 
kinds, the knees. 


The 9th house, being a trikona (trinal house), is auspicious and 
benefits all its associations. It is on a par with the 1st house in impor- 
tance because it indicates a person's luck or fortune. If the horoscope 
reveals strong luck, there will be a solution to almost any problem. There- 
fore the 9th house should be considered in every judgement. Bhagya 
bhava also rules religion and philosophy, but one must also check the 
8th and 12th houses, Jupiter, and Saturn. If only the 9th is considered, 
then nearly all powerful or famous figures will be judged as religious, 
when the indications may simply be revealing the luck which has pro- 
pelled them to their high platform. Ignore the house of luck and many 
conclusions will be off the mark. 


Note that the 9th rules the father, as opposed to the 10th in West- 
ern astrology. 


The karakas, or indicators, of the 9th house are Jupiter and the 
Sun. 


1 


The ruler of the 9th house placed in the: 


1st HOUSE 

One of the best placements for a horoscope. The person is born 

with luck. It also gives a religious nature—a person of great merit and 

faith. This is a common placement of well known saints and religious 

leaders. This is the lord of a dharma house in another dharma house, 

and it creates a strong life purpose. Healthy, respected or famous, hand- 

some, kingly, self-made man, happy childhood—good start in life—happy 

and close relationship with father, performs good deeds, born with wis- 
dom, may head religious organization. 


2nd HOUSE 


Wealthy, good speech, good imagination, good orator, happy family 
life, learned, knowledgeable, popular, gets wealth from father. 


3rd HOUSE 


Happiness from siblings, appreciation of or talent in music, dance, 
and drama. Literary talent, efforts succeed with ease, fulfilled desires, lives 
life to the fullest, exciting adventures, courageous, sibling will be close to 
father or inherit paternal wealth, religious sibling. Many short- and long- 
distance journeys, since the 3rd and 9th are both travel houses. The 9th 
house significations will flourish, since the 9th lord will aspect it's own 
house. Lucky, fortunate, religious, and spiritual. Father is wealthy, power- 
ful, and long-lived. 


4th HOUSE 

Happiness and benefits from mother, mother is religious or of good 

character, enjoys ancestral property, many comforts, plentiful fixed assets, 

owns land and homes, owns fine cars or boats, good education, high 

degree, visits holy sights, religion and father may be dear to the heart. 

This is a very fine placement, as the 9th lord in the 4th aspects the 10th 
house, creating a successful career and high status. 


Sth HOUSE 
One of the finest possible placements, as a dharma lord occupies a 
dharma house and a trikona lord occupies a trikona house. Lucky, fortu- 
nate, wealthy, blessed with divine grace, knowledge of scriptures and 
mantras, wise, performs good deeds, highly spiritual or religious, philo- 
sophical, great wealth from investments, gets good guru, lucky in obtaining 
knowledge. Wealthy, powerful, and long-lived. Highly intelligent, happiness 
from children, wealthy and successful children, religious or spiritual 
children, powerful dharma or life purpose. This is a common 
placement of famous saints and religious leaders. The person becomes a 
spiritual teacher or heads a religious organization. 


6th HOUSE 1 
Troubles with father, sickly father, sinful deeds, little faith or 
appreciation of religion, little luck, father may be involved in medicine or 
healing arts, gets good workers and servants, gets good jobs, powerful 
enemies, little travel, benefits from maternal uncle. 


7th HOUSE 

The person gets a wealthy, beautiful, or devoted spouse. Religious 

or spiritual spouse, benefits from family of spouse, successful business 

partnerships, powerful father, happiness from father. Since the 9th lord 

in the 7th aspects the ascendant, the person will be healthy, handsome, 
fortunate, and respected. 


8th HOUSE 

This is a very bad position, as it spoils the luck. The person may 

have to persevere strictly to gain the smallest rewards, no happiness from 

father, father leads life of hardship or dies early, no appreciation of reli- 

gion or philosophy, no faith, long life, gets wealth from partner, receives 

plenty of alimony if divorced, gains through wills and legacies, strong 
intuition, knowledge of occult subjects. 


9th HOUSE 

Planet in swakshetra (own house). Father is wealthy, powerful, and 

long-lived. Happiness and benefits from father, religious or philosophical, 

lucky and fortunate, many long journeys, wise, idealistic, performs good 
deeds, happiness from grandchildren, powerful dharma, has great faith. 


10th HOUSE 

Prominent career, successful, respected, famous, strong dharma, 

great luck in career, happiness from mother, abundant comforts and 

fixed assets, good education, performs good deeds, may obtain high 

government position. This is a very fine position, as both career and 4th 
house matters flourish due to the lord of luck aspecting the 4th. 


11 th HOUSE 

Great wealth, ambitions and desires are fulfilled, happiness from 

friends, powerful & influential friends, religious or spiritual friends, count- 

less opportunities, wealthy father. Since the 9th lord aspects the 5th, 
there will be good intelligence, fine children, successful investments, etc. 


12th HOUSE 

Luck is spoiled, no happiness from father, father dies early or 

leads a difficult life, no appreciation of religion or philosophy, no gains 

from gurus, no faith, good sex life, sleeps in nice beds with ornaments, travel 

to "unknown places" (far-off lands like Tibet or India), good afterlife (i.e., 

attains heaven). Though bad for religion, this placement is excellent for 
moksha. 


PLANETS IN THE 9th HOUSE 


The 9th is the best house of the horoscope, and as such any planet 
posited within will greatly flourish. This house is primarily concerned 
with a person's religious or philosophical tendencies, travel, the father, 
and luck. Regarding religion, the person may not be outwardly spiritual or 
greatly involved in practicing religious rituals just because the 9th house 
is well endowed. Jupiter, Saturn, Ketu, and the moksha houses (the 4th, 
8th, and 12th) should also be significantly placed to indicate such results. 
However, if the 9th is strong, the person is innately philosophical or reli- 
gious. At the least, he will have a very strong faith in God and be a virtu- 
ous soul interested in performing good deeds. 


This house, because it governs luck, is of immense importance. 
Even if the rest of the horoscope is quite afflicted, there will ultimately be 
solutions to any problems that arise if the 9th house is well disposed. 
When the 9th house is powerful, it is a great boon to the horoscope in 
much the same way as is a strong 1st house or a well placed bright Moon. 
All of life is easier, more pleasant, and fortunate. 


There are many Indian astrologers who consider the 9th house, 
rather than the 5th, to govern poorvapunya, or past-life credit. Their con- 
clusions are understandable, since a person's luck must, in the light of 
Indian philosophy, occur as a result of past-life actions. This is also logical 
in the sense that whatever planet occupies this most auspicious house 
becomes powerful and flourishes. In any case, the 9th is capable of be- 
stowing a sort of divine grace or blessing on the person. Many astrologers 
also attribute lasting fame to this house. It is not clear why, except that 
the 9th is accepted as the absolute best house in a horoscope, and per- 
haps it is, when powerful, most responsible for a person being idolized 
after death. 


Regarding long-distance travel, a strong 9th house alone will not 
necessarily give a great many journeys. The other houses which must be 
analyzed are the 3rd and the 12th. The 12th governs "unknown lands" or 
remote, far-off places. The 3rd house, though specifically ruling short- 
distance travel, promotes energy and movement in general. Also, it should 
be noted that the 7th house, not the 9th, reveals residence in foreign 
countries. 


A person's guru and spiritual teachers and his relationship with 
them are seen from the 9th. This is a very important issue in a spiritual- 
minded culture such as India. Also wisdom, as well as luck in gaining 
knowledge, may be ascertained from this house. Therefore the 9th may 
play a part in a person's higher education even though in Hindu astrology 
the 2nd and 4th houses are the main indicators of one's schooling. 


The 9th house also has to do with a person's moral fiber and 17: 
whether he is charitable and interested in performing good deeds. Itisa 
house of dharma, and if there are many planets posited in the house, or if 
it is otherwise very well disposed, the person has a strong destiny or life 
purpose. 


The karakas, or indicators, of the 9th house are Jupiter and the 
Sun. Final judgement of 9th house matters should therefore be reserved 
until consideration has been given to these house karakas, as well as to 
the lord of the house. 


RAW_THE SUN IN THE 9th HOUSE 


The Sun in the highly auspicious 9th house is similar to its place- 
ment in the other trikona house—the 5th—in that any aspects made to 
the Sun will make a crucial difference for good or evil. Although the Sun 
in this house gives an extraordinary interest in philosophy, religion, med- 
itation, and spiritual practices, it is considered a malefic influence in 
tradition-bound India. This is because unless the Sun is very well as- 
pected, the person will leave his religion for a new or different one. As a 
malefic, the Sun spoils the luck and fortune, as well as other 9th house 
affairs. Therefore, the relationship with the father may be disturbed, or 
the father's life may be difficult. To what extent will depend on aspects 
and the sign placement. The Sun, being the karaka of the father, if well 
aspected in the 9th—the most fortunate house of a horoscope—will 
confer on the father great luck, wealth, fame, and a very long life. It may 
also indicate a highly spiritual or religious father. The person himself is of 
good character and high morals, and is definitely interested in perform- 
ing good deeds. He will be powerful and respected. He may become a reli- 
gious or spiritual teacher. Hindu scriptures declare that the person will 
worship the Sun and other gods, practice all religious rites, and be dedi- 
cated to his gum. They also say he has great faith in God. If the Sun is at 
all powerful or well aspected, there will be plenty of long-distance travel. 
This is also a noted placement of astrologers and devotees of new-age 
religions who have abandoned their given religions. 

UCHCHA & SWAKSHETRA (exalted and own house)—If the Sun is 
in Aries or Leo in the 9th house, the benefits given above are heightened 
and the negative results are nullified. The person is highly spiritual, reli- 
gious, or philosophical. He is very happy with his given religion. He will be 
lucky and fortunate. He will be very powerful and may be an authority 
figure. His father is long-lived, wealthy, and extremely prosperous. The 
person will enjoy plenty of long-distance travel and visits to foreign coun- 
tries. He is of good character and performs many good deeds. He may be 
the absolute favorite of his guru or spiritual teachers. He will be exceed- 
ingly wise. He may wield extraordinary power and authority, and may 
himself become a religious or spiritual teacher with a great following. 


NEECHA (fallen)—If the Sun is in Libra in the 9th house, the per- 
son will suffer greatly on account of his father. Either the relationship is 
quite useless, or the father is weak and sickly, or he suffers much and 
dies early. The person himself has no luck. He must work diligently for 
any benefits in life. There will be no easy solutions to whatever problems 
arise. Regarding religion and philosophy, there may be no appreciation of 
such matters, or the person may choose a fraudulent or deceptive spiri- 
tual teacher. It is also possible that the spiritual preceptor himself is 
weak or sickly. In any case, this avenue of life is, in one way or another, 
spoiled. There will be little long-distance travel. Visits to foreign 
countries may bring troubles or misfortunes. The person is devoid of 
wisdom, power, and confidence. 


CHANDRA.-THE MOON IN THE 9th HOUSE 


WAXING MOON—The waxing Moon in the 9th house is an ex- 
tremely fortunate position for the overall tenor of the horoscope and the 
general well-being of the person. If, at the same time, the Moon is well 
aspected, luck, fortune, wealth, and power will be most supreme. As it is, 
the person may expect a charmed life, where solutions to almost all prob- 
lems appear as if by divine grace. The person is highly spiritual or reli- 
gious and may enjoy such activities above all others in life. He will find no 
fault with the traditional beliefs he was raised with, and he may be a 
favorite of his guru or spiritual teachers. Although this placement alone 
rarely indicates any tendency towards spiritual leadership or teaching 
religion, Hindu scriptures declare that the person will construct temples, 
charitable institutions, ponds, shelters, and other structures for the 
benefit of others. He is extremely charitable and constantly performs good 
deeds with no thought of reward. He will be very close to his father and 
greatly benefit from him. The father is kind and loving, and may be 
wealthy, lucky, and powerful. He may also live a very long life. As the Moon 
rules the mother and females, the person benefits from his mother, who is 
also quite fortunate unless the 4th house is greatly afflicted. There will be 
beneficial association with females and, in a man's horoscope, a beautiful, 
fortunate, or spiritual wife may be indicated. It is also possible that one or 
both of the parents are religious and pure-hearted. The Moon is a fluc- 
tuating planetary influence, and therefore the person enjoys a great deal 
of long-distance travel and visits to foreign countries. A good deal of wis- 
dom is also given. The Moon in the 9th, being the fine position that it is, 
is often found in the horoscopes of powerful world rulers, but in such 
cases the Moon must receive strong benefic aspects. Because the 9th 
house is the Sth from the Sth, ancient Hindu scriptures state that the 
person has many fine children. 


WANING MOON—The waning Moon in the 9th is a good placement 
for the fortune and general well-being of a person, but it is not nearly so 
beneficial for most 9th house affairs as is the waxing Moon. As with any 


delineation of the Moon, it should be noted whether the Moon is slightly 1% 
waning or very dim and close to the new cycle, for if the Moon is waning 
but still bright and relatively near its full Moon position, it will give excel- 
lent results. In any case, the person will take a powerful interest in reli- 
gion or philosophy, though he may not practice the one he was raised 
with. There may be a closeness to the father, but the relationship may 
fluctuate and there may be roughness in that sphere. Also, the father's life 
does not benefit from this influence unless the Moon is well aspected or 
well placed by sign. There are good results with the mother and females, 
but of course other astrological indications must be considered. The per- 
son is interested in travel to foreign countries, and such journeys may 
occur, but less frequently than if the Moon were bright. 


UCHCHA & SWAKSHETRA (exalted and own house)—If the Moon 
is in Taurus or Cancer in the 9th house, the benefits described above are 
magnified. The person is divinely blessed. He is extremely lucky, prosper- 
ous, and powerful. A religious and virtuous personality is indicated. The 
person finds almost immediate solutions to whatever problems arise in 
his life. He will have a wonderful relationship with his father, who may be 
powerful, wealthy, and long-lived. There will also be great benefits in his 
relationship with his mother. Both parents may be highly spiritual. The 
person is wise and gains all kinds of higher knowledge with ease. He will 
be adored by his guru and his elders. He will enjoy a great deal of long- 
distance travel and may visit many foreign countries. If the Moon is wan- 
ing, the results will be proportionately lessened but still quite beneficial. 


NEECHA (fallen)—If the Moon is in Scorpio in the 9th house, the 
person will have no luck in his life. He will have no happiness from his 
father. His father may lead a life of hardship or die early. There will also be 
disturbances in the life of the mother and the relationship with her. The 
person may be interested in religion, philosophy, or spiritual knowledge, 
but he is unfortunate in such matters. He may obtain a fraudulent guru 
or receive faulty knowledge. Common sense in this area is greatly lacking, 
as is wisdom in general. The person will rarely travel long distances or 
visit foreign lands. Finding solutions to problems will be tedious. 


KUJA—MARS IN THE 9th HOUSE 


If Mars is in the 9th house, the person will suffer on account of his 
father. Either their relationship is disturbed by strife and arguments, or 
the father is sickly, leads a difficult life, or dies early. Luck and fortune 
are spoiled. The person is not religious or philosophical unless Mars is 
ruling good houses or is very well aspected. If this is the case, then the 
person may be somewhat famous or an authority figure, because the sig- 
nifications of Mars will so greatly benefit from the positive energy of the 
9th house. Therefore, the person has great drive, ambition, and forceful- 
ness, and he will be successful. He may especially be a pioneer or 


nent of a religion or philosophy. Without beneficial aspects, though, Mars 
in the 9th often indicates a person who is dogmatic or closeminded. He 
may feel that his religion is the only true one and that all others are mis- 
guided. He may be unwilling to confront or grasp abstract thoughts and 
will view all issues from an "either/or" perspective. Since Mars benefits by 
its association with the 9th house, the person may own property. He will 
also have strong blood, a powerful muscular system, and great courage. 
He may have mechanical ability. Although Mars rules brothers and sis- 
ters, they may not so greatly benefit, since Mars from the 9th will 
throw its malefic aspect onto the 3rd house. This position does not at all 
favor morals or the performance of good deeds. Hindu scriptures declare 
the person to be sinful. Also, the person will have problems and 
disagreements with his gurus, spiritual teachers, and elders. He may 
occasionally be sternly censured by them. He may receive no happiness 
from grandchildren. There is generally a good deal of long-distance travel 
but there may be difficulties or troubles connected with such 
experiences. 


UCHCHA & SWAKSHETRA (exalted and own house)—If Mars is in 
Capricorn, Aries, or Scorpio in the 9th house, the person greatly benefits 
from his father. The father will be extremely powerful and prosperous. He 
may be a ruler or military figure. The person himself will be religious, 
spiritual, or philosophical, and he is involved in spreading such teach- 
ings. He will have strong ambitions and be highly successful in fulfilling 
his desires. He will enjoy a great deal of long-distance travel and will visit 
many foreign countries. He will gain all the knowledge he desires and 
obtain a mighty guru or spiritual teacher. He will have excellent luck, 
which he will come to depend upon. His faith in God is extraordinary, and 
he will perform many good deeds. 


NEECHA (fallen)—If Mars is in Cancer in the 9th house, the person 
has no luck. He will have to work hard for any benefits he enjoys, yet his 
ambition and drive are minimal. He will have a terrible relationship with 
his father, who may have to endure a difficult life or die early. The 
person is not at all religious or spiritual He has no interest whatever in 
philosophical matters or performing good deeds. He is devoid of wisdom 
and higher knowledge. He may not make any journeys to foreign lands, or if 
he does, the experiences may be problematic. He will greatly suffer in his 
relationship with his brothers and sisters, since Mars rules siblings, as 
does the 3rd house, which is maligned by the malefic aspect Mars casts 
from the 9th. 


BUDDHA—MERCURY IN THE 9th HOUSE 


Mercury in the 9th house is a very fortunate position, as both the 
significations of Mercury and the 9th house flourish. The person will be 
religious or spiritual in a very intelligent way. He may be given to studying 


will be very interested in understanding many different philosophical 17 
viewpoints and metaphysical subjects. He will also be interested in medi- 
tation or chanting, and may worship the God Vishnu. He will benefit from 
his father, who may be refined, intelligent, and long-lived. The person will 
enjoy long-distance travel and may visit foreign countries several times in 
his life. He will be learned, scholarly, and well educated. He will be a good 
speaker. He will be cultured, refined, and well mannered. There may be 
talent in math, science, or astrology. The person gets along well with his 
guru or spiritual teachers, and is always lucky in obtaining knowledge. He 
has good luck and will find solutions to problems that arise in life. There 

is a good deal of wisdom, and the person performs good deeds. If Mercury 

is conjunct with or aspected by a malefic planet, it loses its benefic status 
and the results are reversed. 


UCHCHA & SWAKSHETRA (exalted and own house)—If Mercury is 
in Virgo or Gemini in the 9th house, the benefits described above are 
magnified. The person is extraordinarily intelligent and wise. He is highly 
fortunate in gaining all kinds of higher knowledge. He is extremely lucky 
and will always find solutions to his problems. He will travel to many for- 
eign countries in his life. His father will be prosperous, long-lived, and 
intelligent. The person may be a philosopher or spiritual teacher. He is 
cultured and refined, and constantly performs good deeds. 


NEECHA (fallen)—If Mercury is in Pisces in the 9th house, the per- 
son may be lacking in discriminative ability in regards to religious or 
spiritual matters. He may get a fraudulent guru or receive false knowl- 
edge. He will have troubles in gaining higher knowledge. His luck is 
spoiled. He will have disturbances in his relationship with his father, who 
may be weak, sick, or mentally unsteady. The person is lacking in wisdom. 
He will travel rarely or experience difficulties when he does. He may have 
no interest in performing good deeds or in practicing religious rites and 
rituals. 


GURU—JUPITER IN THE 9th HOUSE 


One of the most truly spiritual or religious influences that may 
occur in a horoscope is Jupiter in the 9th house. Both Jupiter and the 
9th are indicators of such affairs, and they both greatly benefit by each 
other's influence. The person's sense of devotion and faith in God is 
extraordinarily natural and deeply ingrained. He is spiritual, wise, and 
virtuous. He will perform good deeds all throughout life. He is extremely 
lucky. There will nearly always appear solutions to his problems, as if by 
God's grace. The person is divinely blessed. He is also philosophical and 
interested in meditation. He may be involved in practicing religious rites 
and may be a spiritual teacher. He is charitable. He may have an interest 
in the practice of law. The person will greatly benefit from his father, who 
will be prosperous, fortunate, and long-lived. The father may also be a 


religious or philosophical personality. This placement, which gives such 
good luck, wealth, and fortune, is rather common in the lives of prosper- 
ous and powerful world-famous figures. This is especially logical, since 
Jupiter in the 9th aspects such important houses as the 1st and 5th. It 
also, of course, aspects the 3rd house of siblings and one's own efforts. A 
good deal of travel to foreign countries is also indicated, especially to holy 
lands for religious purposes or to gain higher knowledge. The person is 
very fortunate in gaining any knowledge he desires. He will get the finest 
guru and be adored by him. 


UCHCHA & SWAKSHETRA (exalted and own house)—If Jupiter is 
in Cancer, Sagittarius, or Pisces in the 9th house, the benefits given 
above are intensified. The person has supreme luck and wisdom. There is 
a great possibility that the person will become a spiritual teacher or reli- 
gious figure. His father is likely to be extraordinarily wealthy and long- 
lived. He may have many prosperous and fortunate children, and his rela- 
tionship with them will be very happy. This position will make all of life 
smooth, easy, and joyous. 


NEECHA (fallen)—If Jupiter is in Capricorn in the 9th house, the 
person's luck is spoiled. Finding solutions to problems will be very 
tedious. The relationship with the father will be very unhappy. The father 
may lead a difficult life or die early. The person may have a distorted view 
of religion or be an atheist. He will have no interest in philosophy. He will 
have problems gaining any kind of higher knowledge, and he is lacking in 
wisdom. He will suffer on account of his children or have none. He will not 
visit foreign countries. The person has no interest in performing good 
deeds. 


SUKRA_-VENUS IN THE 9th HOUSE 


If Venus is in the 9th house, the person will be both extremely 
lucky and happy. His problems in life are always easily solved. The person 
is generous and charitable. He is religious-minded and performs good 
deeds. The person's spouse will be beautiful, fortunate, or wealthy, espe- 
cially in the case of a man's horoscope. The marriage partner may also be 
religious, spiritual, or from a foreign land. The relationship with the 
father is happy and full of love. The father is long-lived, fortunate, and 
prosperous. The person will enjoy much long-distance travel and visit 
many foreign countries. He may have a love of philosophy, religious prac- 
tices, and spiritual life. He will get a great guru or spiritual teacher and be 
adored by him. The person may be highly talented in one of the fine arts, 
since Venus is greatly enhanced by the 9th house energy and at the same 
time aspects the 3rd house. His associations with his brothers and 
sisters is charmed, also by the 3rd house aspect. The luck given by Venus 
in the 9th makes this a very special placement, as the horoscope as a 
whole greatly benefits. It is therefore often found in the lives of people 


great fame, wealth, and power. It is usually more of an indication of 179 
worldly fortune than deep spiritual inclination. However, if there are other 
indications of strong religious or spiritual tendencies, then Venus, with 

its lighthearted nature, will give a rather blissful or euphoric conscious- 
ness. Ancient Hindu scriptures state that the person will be a money- 
lender and will enjoy all kinds of comforts, ornaments, conveyances, and 
luxuries. Also, he will greatly honor his guests, elders, and spiritual 
preceptors. 


UCHCHA & SWAKSHETRA (exalted and own house)—If Venus is 
in Pisces, Taurus, or Libra in the 9th house, the benefits listed above are 
heightened. The person is extremely lucky, virtuous, and religious-minded. 
He will have great aesthetic appreciation and may be a famous artist. 
There is a deep love of philosophy, spiritual disciplines, and all kinds of 
higher knowledge. The person is wise and may become a spiritual teacher 
if the rest of the horoscope is bent in that direction. The person will get a 
beautiful spouse and enjoy a happy married life. He will visit many foreign 
countries. There will be great benefits in the relationship with the father 
and he will be loving, wealthy, and long-lived. 


NEECHA (fallen)—If Venus is in Virgo in the 9th house, either 
there will be difficulties with the father or the father's life will be tedious 
and filled with hardship. Or he may die early. The person's luck is spoiled. 
He will have difficulty obtaining any kind of higher knowledge. He may 
not enjoy religious or spiritual practices, and there will be no happiness 
in that area. He may have a poor relationship with any spiritual teachers 
he encounters. There may be artistic talent, as Venus aspects the 3rd 
house, but the person will not pursue such a career. There will be few 
long-distance journeys. 


SANI_SATURN IN THE 9th HOUSE 


If Saturn is in the 9th house, the person's luck is spoiled. Finding 
solutions to problems will be tedious. The person must work hard for any 
benefits and comforts in his life. He will not be interested in religious 
practices or spiritual knowledge, or he may have difficulties with gurus, 
spiritual teachers, and elders. The person will suffer on account of his 
father. His relationship with the father may be devoid of warmth or filled 
with tension. The father himself may lead a difficult life. If Saturn is 
afflicted, the father may die early. Saturn rules longevity and may there- 
fore indicate a very long life for the father if the planet is well disposed. 
There will not be much travel to foreign countries. Because Saturn will 
aspect the 3rd house, there will be troubles with brothers and sisters. 
Hindu scriptures agree that although the person is not at all religious, he 
will spend time and money renewing or repairing dilapidated temples and 
religious institutions. It is of course crucial to analyze the condition of 
Saturn properly, because as one of the outer or spiritual planets in Hindu 


astrology, Saturn is capable of giving excellent results in certain 9th 
house matters when it is a yogakaraka ruling good houses or when it is 
well aspected by Jupiter or another benefic. In such cases, the person 
would be highly spiritual, religious, or philosophical. There would be a 
great interest in higher knowledge of all kinds, and a good deal of wisdom. 
The person's father would fare much better than what has been men- 
tioned above. Luck, however, would not much differ. 


UCHCHA & SWAKSHETRA (exalted and own house)—If Saturn is 
in Libra, Capricorn, or Aquarius in the 9th house, the person is deeply 
spiritual or religious. He may be highly philosophical and committed to 
gaining as much higher knowledge as possible. The person will be very 
wise. He will also have strong luck. His father will be powerful and long- 
lived. The person will be mature and disciplined, and have a powerful 
sense of responsibility. He will be virtuous and interested in performing 
good deeds. He will have great leadership ability. The person will visit for- 
eign countries in his lifetime. He may worship the god Shiva or practice a 
religion which centers on the performance of great austerities. 


NEECHA (fallen)—If Saturn is in Aries in the 9th house, the person 
will have no luck at all. Nor will he be fortunate in obtaining higher 
knowledge. He will not practice religious or spiritual techniques, and he 
has no interest in performing good deeds. His father may be sickly or lead 
a difficult life and die early. The relationship with the father is also greatly 
harmed. The person is devoid of wisdom and will not enjoy any travel to 
foreign countries. 


RAHU_THE NORTH NODE IN THE 9th HOUSE 


The significations of Rahu are enhanced by the auspicious energy 
of the 9th house. Therefore the person may enjoy many worldly benefits 
and be powerful. Certain Hindu scriptures declare that the person will be 
the head of his town or village, or be in an authority position. The person 
may have difficulties with his father, or the father may lead a difficult life, 
but this depends upon whether Rahu is in a friendly sign or not. Ancient 
scriptures are also divided on whether the person will be religious or not, 
and this may also depend on aspects and sign placements, for some with 
this placement are extremely philosophical and religious, while others are 
not at all so. Rahu in the 9th also may indicate interruptions in higher 
education. 


UCHCHA (exalted)—If Rahu is in Virgo or Gemini in the 9th house 
(or stationary direct or in forward motion), the person will be lucky and 
able to find solutions to his problems. He will also be powerful and enjoy 
many worldly benefits. His father will be strong and successful. The father 
is a very beneficial influence in the person's life. The person may enjoy a 
good deal of long-distance travel. Because Rahu represents worldly desires, 


this position does not particularly favor the significations of religion, but 
it does give very high morals. The person will perform good deeds. 


KETU_THE SOUTH NODE IN THE 9th HOUSE 


Ketu in this position essentially harms most 9th house significa- 
tions. Therefore the person may be narrow-minded and have little interest 
in philosophy or religion. He will experience difficulties with his father, 
whose life may be troubled. Luck and higher education are disturbed. The 
person will have little or no desire to perform good deeds. 


UCHCHA (exalted)—If Ketu is in Gemini or Virgo in the 9th house 
(or stationary direct or in forward motion), the person will benefit from 
his father, who will be successful and of fine character. The person is also 
lucky and will easily find solutions to any problems which arise. He will 
be of good moral fiber and desirous of performing good deeds. 


10TH HOUSE ! 
KARMA BHA VA—HOUWSE OF ACTIVITIES (OCCUPATION) 


ee 


The 10th house corresponds to an earth sign and is therefore a 
house of artha (wealth). 


Career, profession, fame, honor, status, government, holy pilgrim- 
ages, good deeds, activities benefiting society, authority figures, govern- 
ment officials. 


Karma bhaua governs one's career and status. It is a simple house 
in that there are relatively few meanings to keep in mind, but certainly 
rulership of career and fame make it a significant part of a horoscope. 


The main caution to be aware of in considering the 10th house is 
that a thorough analysis (sign, sign rulers, planets occupying, etc.) may 
not produce an accurate prediction of a person's profession. This is 
because there are so many factors involved in a person's choice that only 
through delineation of the entire horoscope can one hope to make the 
proper judgement. However, in terms of judging a person's career status 
and fame, analysis of the 10th gives fine results. 


The karakas, or indicators, of the 10th house are Saturn, the Sun, 
Mercury, and Jupiter. 


The ruler of the 10th house placed in the: 


lst HOUS 
Career-minded, self-made person, self-employed, successful cares 
respected or famous, dignified. The person may be a pioneer in his fie 


with his own business, career may involve the personality or physical 
body (i.e., person may be a model, actor, or showman of some sort), hand- 
some, healthy, long-lived, strong dharma, may visit holy lands. 


2nd HOUSE 

An artha lord in an artha house gives good wealth and earning 

ability. Good speaker, profession may involve speaking (i.e. poetry or lec- 

turing), truthful, charitable, career may involve food (.e., restaurant or 
catering), good imagination, family happiness. 


3rd HOUSE 


Career in music, dance, or drama. Siblings may be instrumental or 
involved in the person's livelihood in some way. Career advances only 
through hard work and self-effort. Courageous and adventurous, many 
short journeys, career in literary or communications field. 


4th HOUSE 
This is an excellent position, since the lord of the 10th is both 
angular and aspecting its own house. Successful career, high status, 
honored or famous, goes on holy pilgrimages, many comforts, plentiful 
fixed assets. Owns cars, homes or land. Happiness from mother, learned, 
high degree, honored at close of life, passion towards career, long-lived 
mother, performs good deeds. Career may involve fanning, landscaping, or 
real estate. Receives favors from government or prominent persons. 


Sth HOUSE 

An auspicious placement for the lord of 10th. Highly intelligent. 

Wealthy, successful, or powerful children. Profitable investments, happy 

love affairs, performs good deeds, career involving speculation, virtuous or 

pious, knowledge of mantras or spiritual techniques. Career in art, sports, 

or politics. Career success due to results of past-life efforts, strong sense 
of destiny, honored and respected, goes on holy pilgrimages. 


6th HOUSE 


An artha lord in an Artha house is good for wealth, but gains are 
slow because the 6th house is a dusthana. Ups and downs in professional 
life, must work hard, enemies may harm career or stand in the way of 
promotion, may be superseded by juniors at work, career may involve 
medicine, nursing, or hospital work, prominent uncle. 


7th HOUSE 

Good career, spouse is an aid in the livelihood, profits through 

partnerships and joint ventures, happy marriage, spouse is famous or 

highly career-oriented, mature or powerful spouse, may travel for profes- 

sion. Since the 10th lord will aspect the ascendant from this position, the 
person is healthy, respected, and fortunate. 


8th HOUSE 18 
Career problems, difficult to find proper dharma, no fame or honor, 
merit goes unnoticed, many breaks and changes in career, commits bad 
deeds, long-lived, career may involve occult or mystical subjects. Gains 
from wills, insurance companies, or partner's wealth. 


9th HOUSE 

Father is wealthy, powerful, and long-lived. Successful career, per- 

forms good deeds, goes on holy pilgrimages, very religious or spiritual, 

spiritual teacher or career involving religion, fortunate, wealthy, honored 

or famous, happiness from grandchildren, long journeys for career pur- 
poses, powerful dharma. 


10th HOUSE 

Planet in swakshetra (own house). Successful career, respected or 

famous, prosperous, honors from government or prominent persons, 
wealthy. This is a very good position giving a powerful dharma. 


1 Ith HOUSE 

A very good position for wealth. The major desires and ambitions 

are realized. Successful career, performs good deeds. Wealthy and influen- 

tial friends, eldest sibling may be instrumental or aid in person's 

career. As the 10th lord will aspect the 5th house from this position, there 

will be good intelligence, happiness from children, and profitable 
investments. 


12th HOUSE 

Career problems, many changes of career, no honor or fame, person 

may have to work in far-off country, difficulty in finding one's dharma. 

This is a particularly bad placement and causes unhappiness and a life of 

hardship in general. There may be an interest in moksha if there are 
other indications in the horoscope. Peaceful afterlife (1.e., attains heaven). 


PLANETS IN THE 10TH HOUSE 


The 10th house governs career, fame, and status. It is an 
upachaya, or growing house, where malefic planets flourish. Therefore, 
any planet posited within is of great benefit unless it is badly aspected, 
or in its fallen sign or enemy's house. 


As has already been mentioned, delineating a person's profession 
with consistent accuracy is a difficult if not impossible task. But discern- 
ing his success, fame, and status is not. It is most important, however, to 
also consider thoroughly the 1st house and its ruler. Following that, the 
Moon, the 10th house from the Moon, and the horoscope as a whole 
should be analyzed. Very few astrological indications can be isolated to 


B complex of all. Note that there are 4 karakas for the 10th house. It is 
found that in cases where the 10th house is weak or afflicted but the rest 
of the horoscope is extremely powerful and special, the person will land 
prestigious jobs and earn great wealth, though he will have many ups and 
downs and little career stability. 


Although the houses which correspond to the fire signs (the 1st, 
Sth, and 9th) are dharma-oriented houses, the 10th specifically rules the 
dharma. Hence, any unafflicted planet in the 10th will give the person a 
strong direction, mission, or life purpose to follow. 


Regarding the performance of good deeds, this is the 3rd house to 
be connected to such activities. While the acts indicated by the 5th or 9th 
houses are caused by a religious-mindedness, the good deeds of the 10th 
are not. The person may be not at all spiritual and may be in business for 
ordinary motives, yet he will generate highly positive influences for 
society if the house is well disposed. 


The 10th house reveals holy pilgrimages and bathing in India's 
sacred and purifying Ganges River. It is also a house of authority figures 
and authoritative institutions. Therefore government is one of its signifi- 
cations, but not nearly as specifically as the 5th house, which governs 
rulers and politicians. 


The 10th is of course a kendra, and as such, any planets posited 
within will be prominent, powerful, and recognizable influences. Also, as 
an upachaya house, any tendencies indicated by an occupying planet will 
grow in strength as life progresses. And there is, as in any upachaya, 
more free will to overcome any negative effects indicated. 


The karakas, or indicators, of the 10th house are the Sun, Mer- 
cury, Jupiter, and Saturn. Final judgement of 10th house matters should 
not be made without due consideration of the house karakas, as well as 
the lord of the 10th. 


-THE SUN IN THE 10th HOUSE 


Because malefics in upachaya houses give good results, the Sun in 
the 10th house is an excellent placement for career achievement and suc- 
cess in all undertakings. The Sun is the karaka of the 10th and also 
receives dik bala, or directional strength, in this house, making this its 
best position in the horoscope. The person is career-minded and easily 
rises to an authority position in his chosen profession. He will be popular 
and bold, and will wield great power. He may become famous. He will be 
attracted to a career such as politics, where he may rule others. Or the 
person may hold a government post or be a physician or chemist. There 
may be difficulties in his relationship with the mother due to the malefic 


aspect thrown onto the 4th house. Wealth is favored, as the 10th isa 
house of artha. All significations of the Sun will flourish in this powerful 
kendra. Therefore the person enjoys a beneficial relationship with his 
father, who may be wealthy and prosperous. The person is confident, 
strong, and ambitious. He may perform many good deeds for the benefit 
of society, and he will gain a fine reputation on such account. He may 
also go on many holy pilgrimages in his life. 


UCHCHA & SWAKSHETRA (exalted and own house)—If the Sun is 
in Aries or Leo in the 10th house, the benefits described above are 
heightened. The person will be famous or earn a great reputation. He may 
become a ruler or politician in a high position and wield great power. He 
will be wealthy and succeed in nearly all his undertakings. The person is 
honorable and popular, and will perform many good deeds for his com- 
munity. His father will also be prosperous, long-lived, and powerful. The 
person may enjoy several holy pilgrimages in his life. 


NEECHA (fallen)—If the Sun is in Libra in the 10th house, the per- 
son will have great difficulty in establishing a career. He will lack confi- 
dence, authority, and power. He may not be able to find his proper 
dharma and will have to engage in many different professions through- 
out his lifetime. The person will have a hard time earning wealth. His 
relationship with his father is disturbed, and the father may lead a life of 
hardship. The person may not go on holy pilgrimages, and there may be 
many unforeseen downfalls in his career. 


CHANDRA.THE MOON IN THE 10th HOUSE 


WAXING MOON—If the waxing Moon is in the 10th house, the per- 
son is very fortunate, as the significations of both the Moon and the 10th 
house flourish. There will be achievement and success very early on in the 
person's professional life. The person may enjoy a fine reputation or even 
fame in his childhood or teens. Careers may change throughout the per- 
son's life but will nearly always be related to activities benefiting or serv- 
ing the masses. And the activities will always succeed. This is a common 
placement of artists and performers. The person intuitively senses how to 
please groups of people, and he caters to their emotions and feelings. He 
has a great ability to inspire or incite the public. He is highly intelligent, 
virtuous, and interested in performing good deeds. He also gains a very 
good amount of wealth in his career. Associations with the mother and 
females are greatly favored, and therefore in a man's horoscope married 
life is smooth and enjoyable. Wherever the Moon is placed in a horoscope 
is an area of great interest and vitality, and in this case the person loves 
his profession and may spend an inordinate amount of time in his work. 
This position also benefits one's academic life, and if the Moon is aspected 
by a benefic, the person will be quite brilliant. The person's mother will be 
long-lived, powerful, and may be career-minded or a public figure. The 


aspect of a bright Moon on the 4th house enhances the entire horoscope 
as the significations of education, mother, happiness, fixed assets, and 
conveyances are all favored. As with any prominent placement of the 
Moon, the person is kind and warmhearted. 


WANING MOON—If the Moon is waning in the 10th house, the per- 
son is still extremely career-minded, but the prospect of fame and success 
is considerably lessened unless the rest of the horoscope is very special. 
The person may be overly concerned with his status and how he is per- 
ceived by others around him. He may change careers too many times to 
enjoy any kind of stability in his professional life. There may occasionally 
be difficulties and setbacks in his career. Although the person desires 
to be his own boss, he will have to be patient and work very hard to 
achieve this goal. 


UCHCHA & SWAKSHETRA (exalted and own house)—If the Moon 
is in Taurus or Cancer in the 10th house, the benefits described above 
are magnified. The person may become quite famous with the public and 
enjoy a dedicated following. He will especially be adored by females. He will 
be brilliant and extremely successful. He will have a fine relationship with 
his mother, who may be fortunate and long-lived. The person is sensitive 
to the cares and needs of the masses and may wish to serve them through 
movements of reform or in any way he can. He may feel he has the most 
extraordinary purpose in life. His greatest interest is to perform good 
deeds for society. He will be loved and respected, and will gain wealth and 
live a fortunate life. If the Moon is waning, the benefits are proportion- 
ately lessened but still quite positive. 


NEECHA (fallen)—If the Moon is in Scorpio in the 10th house, the 
person will have a terrible time trying to find his proper dharma. He will 
often fail in his undertakings and will constantly change careers. He may 
never succeed in obtaining his own business. He will be overlooked by his 
superiors or superseded by his juniors at work. The person is powerless 
to perform beneficial acts for society. He will not go on holy pilgrimages. 


KUJA MARS IN THE 10th HOUSE 


The 10th house is one of the few houses which can utilize the fiery 
energy of Mars to great advantage. Also, Mars gets dik bala, or directional 
strength, in the 10th, making this its best placement in the horoscope. 
The person will be extremely proficient in his profession, and he will enjoy 
great success and achievement in his life. He will also gain wealth easily. 
The person is highly ambitious and may wish to be a ruler of some sort. 
He will be attracted to military work, sports, mechanics, or any technical 
field, such as drafting, engineering, accounting, etc. Hindu scriptures 
state that the person may lie, be two-faced, or have the mentality ofa 
thief. This is due to the aggressiveness and malefic nature of Mars, which 


gives the person a very strong desire to achieve his goals. Therefore, the 1! 
person will behave in much the same way as a politician. Feeling that the 
end justifies the means, he will say whatever he feels is necessary, with 
little regard for the truth. There is also a tendency to take advantage of 
others for the same reason. Because Mars is a selfish influence promoting 
personal success, the more well-disposed the planet is, the less considera- 
tion of others’ opinions and feelings the person will have. Nevertheless, 
the person is highly respected and powerful. He will also perform good 
deeds for his community, and may take an interest in meditation and 
holy pilgrimages. The relationship with the mother is disturbed due to 
the aspect Mars makes on the 4th house. 


UCHCHA & SWAKSHETRA (exalted and own house)—If Mars is in 
Capricorn, Aries, or Scorpio in the 10th house, the person will enjoy a 
great career, which will bring wealth, fame, and power. He may become a 
ruler, commander, or leader of men. In his career or business dealings, the 
person is aggressive and has tremendous strength and fortitude to defeat 
any opponent or competitor. He will succeed in all his undertakings and 
fulfill his personal desires with ease. The person will know his dharma in 
life early on and will move toward his purpose like an arrow to its target. 
He will perform actions which greatly benefit the public. He may also 
enjoy many holy pilgrimages in his life. 


NEECHA (fallen)—If Mars is in Cancer in the 10th house, the per- 
son will have great difficulties in his career. He will not know his life pur- 
pose and will change careers many times. He will often fail in his activities 
and will command no respect in society. If the person is at all 
successful in his professional life, there may occasionally be sudden 
drastic downfalls which he could not have foreseen. The person is not 
interested in doing anything to benefit his community. Nor will he 


enjoy any holy pilgrimages. 
BUDDHA—MERCURY IN THE 10th HOUSE 


If Mercury is in the 10th house, the person will have a successful 
career and a good reputation. He will earn plenty of wealth. It is, of course, 
necessary to consider the aspects to Mercury. However, alone and unas- 
pected in the 10th, this placement gives a great intellect and involvement 
in a communications career. The person will be attracted to science, 
math, astrology, secretarial work, writing, lecturing, etc. He will be a bril- 
liant and authoritative speaker. As Mercury rules commerce and trade, 
the person may be a successful businessman. He will have a fine educa- 
tion and be happy, due to Mercury's aspect on the 4th house. The person 
is cultured, refined, and charming in appearance. He will be patient and 
tolerant. He will also perform beneficial acts in his career. As the 10th is 
an upachaya house, where occupying planets grow stronger in time, the 
person will constantly gain in knowledge, brilliance, and all intellectual 


facets. There is a likelihood of several different careers throughout the life, 
and the more afflicted Mercury is, the more professions the person will 
have. However, if Mercury is conjunct with a malefic planet, it will simply 
strengthen the energy of the other planet and give good career results of 
that nature rather than spoil the profession in a mercurial fashion. By 
afflictions to Mercury in this case, what is meant is its placement in an 
enemy's house or its fallen sign, as well as receiving any malefic aspects 
cast by planets in other houses. 


UCHCHA & SWAKSHETRA (exalted and own house)—If Mercury is 
in Virgo or Gemini in the 10th house, the benefits described above are 
heightened. The person will have a great and successful career. He will be 
wealthy, highly respected, or famous. He may be an international busi- 
nessman. He may wield a good deal of power in his profession. Or he may 
be a great writer, lecturer, scientist, or mathematician. The person is 
quite brilliant. He may simultaneously engage in several successful 
careers, and his work will benefit society. 


NEECHA (fallen)—If Mercury is in Pisces in the 10th house, the 
person will enjoy no career success. He will always work for others and 
will be overlooked at promotion time. He will not know his proper dharma 
and will change professions very frequently. He will enjoy no fame, 
honor, or respect. He is powerless to benefit his community and has no 
interest in holy pilgrimages. 


GURU_JUPITER IN THE 10th HOUSE 


If Jupiter is in the 10th house, the person will enjoy a successful 
career and achieve a high position in life. His professional activities will 
succeed almost immediately, and he will be honored or famous. The per- 
son will choose a career which greatly benefits the public. He will espe- 
cially be attracted to work involving higher knowledge. Therefore, the per- 
son may be a practitioner or teacher of law, philosophy, religion, astrology, 
spritual disciplines, or any subject which is above the everyday thinking 
of the common man. He is most concerned with educating the public or 
raising their level of consciousness. The person himself is virtuous, highly 
moral, and religious-minded or spiritual. He will gain wealth easily. Jupi- 
ter's aspect on the 4th house makes the person happy and content, while 
he also enjoys fine conveyances and all kinds of comforts and luxuries. He 
will have a good relationship with his mother and will benefit from her. 
He will gain from authority figures and the government, by accepting 
either work or favors from them. The person may enjoy many holy pil- 
grimages. Certain Hindu scriptures assert that the person suffers on 
account of his children because Jupiter in the 10th is in the 6th house 
from the 5th. 


UCHCHA 8& SWAKSHETRA (exalted and own house)—If Jupiter is 


in Cancer, Sagittarius, or Pisces in the 10th house, the benefits given 1¢ 
above are multiplied. The person will have the most fortunate of careers. 

He will know his purpose as a child or teenager. He will succeed almost 
immediately in his undertakings. Fame and honor will follow him 
throughout his life. The person is extremely spiritual and may be a reli- 
gious leader or spiritual teacher. He will gain wealth easily in his profes- 
sional life. He may obtain any favors he desires from eminent persons or 

the government. He will bathe in the sacred Ganges River and enjoy many 
holy pilgrimages. 


NEECHA (fallen)—If Jupiter is in Capricorn in the 10th house, the 
person will have a checkered career. He will always work for others and 
will not know his life purpose. Professions will change many times and 
his undertakings will often fail. The person is not religious minded and 
does not bother with holy pilgrimages. Nor does his work much benefit 
society; or if it does, he will go unnoticed. There is little if any fame, 
respect, or honor bestowed upon the person. 


SUKRA_VENUS IN THE 10th HOUSE 


Venus in the 10th house indicates a person who is very lucky in his 
career and whose profession centers on bringing joy and happiness to the 
public. This is one of the most common placements of successful actors, 
artists, musicians, and performers. It is also found in the horoscopes of 
people who make their living selling jewelry, photography, cosmetics, 
beautiful clothing, sweets, arts and crafts, fine cars, and other such luxur- 
ies. The person is adored by the public and makes many lucky contacts 
with people through his profession. He will also be very happy, as Venus is 
powerful and prominent in this kendra and also throws its benefic aspect 
onto the 4th house. The person gains great wealth and enjoys fine cars 
and conveyances. He also has a happy relationship with his mother. Asso- 
ciations with women are favored, and the person is especially loved by the 
female public. Venus in the 10th house is an extremely fortunate place- 
ment, as all of life is generally easier and sweeter. 


UCHCHA & SWAKSHETRA (exalted and own house)—If Venus is 
in Pisces, Taurus, or Libra in the 10th house, the benefits described above 
are heightened. The person is highly successful and wealthy. He may be a 
great film star or renowned artist and may enjoy worldwide fame. He will 
bring great joy to the public through his professional activities. He will 
get a beautiful, powerful, or famous spouse who may also be an artist. 
Married life is quite favored by this placement. The person will possess 
the finest conveyances and luxuries. He will greatly benefit society and 
will go on holy pilgrimages. 


NEECHA (fallen)—If Venus is in Virgo in the 10th house, the per- 
son will suffer on account of his professional life. His undertakings fail all 


too often, and he will be at a loss as to which direction in life to follow. He 

will not be honored or respected, and his works will go unnoticed. He will 
not obtain his own business and will change careers many times in his 
life. The person is powerless to benefit his community through his pro- 
fessional activities. 


SATURN IN THE 10th HOUSE 


In ancient Hindu scriptures Saturn is the planet most cited as 
making a person "leader of his village." If Saturn is in the 10th house, the 
person will possess great ambition, leadership ability, and power. Richard 
Nixon, J. Krishnamurti (who as a child was hailed as a Messiah), and 
Adolf Hitler were all born with this placement. However, Saturn in any 
kendra gives major ups and downs in a person's life, and therefore suc- 
cess in the career may drastically fluctuate. The most specific information 
revealed by Saturn in the 10th is the tendency of leadership and a highly 
disciplined approach to one's profession. However, the rest of the horo- 
scope should be analyzed to confirm whether a leadership position is 
likely. Otherwise, some possibilities of the person's work are carpentry, 
construction, mining, or any career involving manual labor, steel, iron, 
coal, or wood. Or the person may become a judge, minister, or magistrate, 
and because Saturn is a highly spiritual planet, he may be a spiritual or 
religious leader. There may be strong ascetic leanings, especially as Saturn 
in the 10th aspects the 4th, 7th, and 12th houses. The sexual passions 
are greatly toned down because of the aspects to the 7th and 12th. The 
person is highly career-minded and has great organizational ability. He is 
most concerned with administering practicalities which will affect the 
greatest number of people in the most beneficial way. Hindu scriptures 
state that the person benefits from the government and achieves great 
success in foreign countries. The scriptures also say that he will bathe in 
the sacred Ganges and make many holy pilgrimages. If Saturn is afflicted 
or weak, the person's career will involve difficult manual labor, and he 
will be very unlucky in his profession. He would not likely ever own his own 
business. 


UCHCHA SWAKSHETRA (exalted and own house)—If Saturn is 
in Libra, Capricorn, or Aquarius in the 10th house, the person will be 
extremely successful in his career. His fame and power will continuously 
increase with age. He will especially experience a great rise in his 36th 
year, and his life mission from that time on will gain great momentum. 
The person may be an enormously powerful leader, politician, or ruler of 
men. He will be extremely practical and of broad perspective. He will pos- 
sess a strong vision of how organizations and society can best function. 
The person is honored and respected. He will get favors from eminent 
persons and government officials. He will have a very strong life purpose, 
and his work will greatly benefit society. 


NEECHA (fallen)—If Saturn is in Aries in the 10th house, the per 1$ 


son will fail almost immediately in his undertakings. He will not be able to 
find his purpose in life and will work at very cruel or tedious jobs. He will 
receive no respect or fame, and his work goes unnoticed. He will gain no 
favors from eminent persons, authority figures, or government officials. 
The person will gain very little wealth from his professional activities. 
There may be tremendous downfalls in his career, and professional life is 
an uphill struggle. 


RAHU_THE NORTH NODE IN THE 10th HOUSE 


The 10th house is one of the finest placements for Rahu, as the 
person will have a powerful and renowned career. He will be adept at 
influencing the masses or selling to the public. The person lives with 
insatiable career ambitions, and his works greatly benefit society. The 
person will easily reach a position of authority. He will earn money early 
on in life and may help support his parents. There is a good likelihood 
that the person will make many spiritual pilgrimages or take to spiritual 
life. Ancient Hindu scriptures declare that the person will prefer the com- 
pany of non-Hindus (i.e., persons of a different religious backround). They 
also say he will be courageous, have very few children, and lust after wid- 
ows or low-class females. 


UCHCHA (exalted)—If Rahu is in Gemini or Virgo in the 10th 
house (or stationary direct or in forward motion), the benefits described 
above are heightened. The person will have a stellar career and be famous. 
He will possess enormous ambition and do many good deeds which affect 
society on a grand scale. 


KETU_THE SOUTH NODE IN THE 10th HOUSE 


Because malefics in upachaya houses produce good results, Ketu 
in the 10th gives excellent career success. However, the sign placement 
should be noted, as Ketu may cause problems if it is in an inimical sign 
(i.e., a sign ruled by one of the luminaries or a sign which is unfriendly to 
Rahu). In such a case the person could experience strange difficulties in 
his career. He would be vulnerable to deceptive characters or uncontrol- 
lable influences. Ketu in the 10th favors interest in spiritual disciplines, 
and the person may enjoy many holy pilgrimages. 


UCHCHA (exalted)—If Ketu is in Gemini or Virgo in the 10th house 
(or stationary direct or in forward motion), the person will be honored or 
famous. He will have a very successful career and may greatly affect the 
general public. A strong ascetic or spiritual nature may be indicated. 


11TH HOUSE 19 
AYAYA BHAVA—HOUSE OF GAINS & PROFITS 


The 11 th house corresponds to an air sign and is therefore a house of 
ka ma (desire). 


Desires, ambitions, wishes, opportunity, friends, eldest brother, prof- 
its, wealth, paternal uncle, legs and ankles. 


Ayaya bhava has rulership of gains and profits by "any means." It is 
therefore different than the 2nd in that it can reveal financial windfalls and 
specific means of income. For example, Jupiter in 11 th could bring money 
through astrology or spiritual affairs. Mercury might bring income through 
writings or lectures. These sources of income could be in addition to one's 
regular job or career. 


The 11 th specifically rules major desires and ambitions, and indi- 
cates whether they will be fulfilled. A strong benefic in the 11 th means a 
person will succeed in virtually any undertaking. A fallen planet in the 11 th 
may indicate constant and insatiable desires. 


The eldest sibling is also seen from this house. 
The karaka, or indicator, of the 11 th house is Jupiter. 
The lord of the llth placed in the: 
lst HOUSE 
Wealthy, many opportunities, achieves desires and ambitions, born 


into a wealthy family, beneficial friends, happiness and benefits from eldest 
sibling, healthy, happy, prosperous. 


2nd HOUSE 

Wealthy, gains wealth through several different means, eldest sibling 

may be instrumental in earning money, domestic happiness, earnings 

through banking or moneylending, successful financial ventures with 
friends, intelligent, learned, good speaker, good imagination. 


3rd HOUSE 

A lord of a kama house in a kama house brings fulfillment of desires 

and ambitions. May earn money from investments or activities in music, 

dance, or drama. Gains through siblings, gains from literary field, good 
adventures, courageous, happy friendships. 


4th HOUSE 

Gains from real estate or farming, wealth from mother or maternal 

relations, acquires land and homes, enjoys holy pilgrimages, good education, 
fine degree, many comforts, good friends. 


Sth HOUSE 

This is a very good position, which promises wealth from invest- 

ments. Gains and happiness from children, prosperous children, intelligent 

and learned, gains through art or sports, rich eldest sibling, ambitions and 

desires are achieved, many opportunities, financial windfalls, success in 
gambling. 


6th HOUSE 

Difficulty fulfilling desires, no financial windfalls, few opportunities, 

no happiness or gains from eldest sibling, troubled by enemies, problems 

with friends, gains through uncle, may gain through nursing home or 
health-related ventures. 


7th HOUSE 

A kama lord in a kama house fulfills desires and ambitions, strong 

passions, strong desires, spouse is wealthy or influential, spouse aids in 
gaining wealth, happy marriage. 


8th HOUSE 

Many financial losses, few opportunities, desires go unfulfilled, no 

happiness from eldest sibling, eldest sibling dies early or leads life of 

hardship, few friends, bad friends, gains from partner's wealth, good 
alimony, gains from insurance companies, gairiE from wills. 


9th HOUSE 

Wealthy, lucky, desires and ambitions are fulfilled, gets paternal 

wealth, wealthy and long-lived father, happiness from eldest sibling, reli- 
gious or spiritual, happiness from friends, spiritual friends. 


10th HOUSE 19 
Prosperous career, many career opportunities, performs good deeds, 
enjoys holy pilgrimages, wealthy, many comforts, eldest brother may be 
involved in the career in some way. 


11 th HOUSE 

Planet in swakshetra (own house). Easy gains of wealth, desires and 

ambitions are fulfilled, many financial opportunities, happiness and gains 

from eldest sibling, many comforts, powerful and prosperous eldest sibling, 
many friends, benefits from friends. 


12th HOUSE 

Many financial losses, few opportunities, desires go unfulfilled, no 

happiness from eldest sibling, eldest sibling may die early or lead a life of 

hardship. There maybe losses, debts, and expenses due to eldest sibling. Few 
friends, bad friends, good sex life, sleeps in nice bed with ornaments. 


PLANETS IN THE 11TH HOUSE 


The 11 th house, because it corresponds to an air sign, is a kama, or 
desire, house. It also specifically rules major goals and ambitions. Therefore 
the 11 th is a key factor in fulfilling the daily desires, as well as the major 
dreams in life. This house also rules gains and profits and thus reveals 
sudden financial fluctuations and wealth coming from short-term ventures 
arising from unexpected opportunities or sideline jobs one holds briefly. 
And of course any planet in the house will aspect, for better or worse, the Sth 
house, which governs investments and speculations. 


The 11 th is also said to rule opportunity, which is essentially the 
way a person may come to fulfill his desires. So if the house is very well 
disposed, one may expect abundant opportunties to present themselves on 
a daily basis. As an upachaya, or growing house, any planet posited within, 
unless afflicted, gives good results regarding most basic house matters. Also, 
the significations of any occupying planet grow stronger and stronger as 
time goes on. 


Also seen from the 11 th are friends, the paternal uncle, and the eldest 
sibling. If the house is extremely afflicted, the eldest sibling suffers a great 
deal, or as is often the case, there may be no elder brothers or sisters. 


Although the 3rd house rules music, dance, and drama, many Hindu 
astrologers see a connection between the 11 th house and activities or 
earnings involving the fine arts. But it is not clear why. Also, Hindu scrip- 
tures often relate the 11 th house to happiness in marriage because the 11 
th is the 5th house (love affairs) from the 7th. As this is an extreme subtlety, 
no such mention has been made in the delineations below. Finally, because 
the 11 th house rules desires, if the house is extremely afflicted it may 


person whose desires are constant and insatiable. 


The karaka of the 11th house is Jupiter. Final judgement of 11th 
house matters should be reserved until due consideration has been given to 
the house karaka, as well as to the lord of the house. 


RAW_THE SUN IN THE 11th HOUSE 


The Sun in the 11th, as a malefic in an upachaya house, produces 
excellent results in terms of success and materialistic benefits. The person 
will be wealthy and fulfill his goals and ambitions in life. He will be highly 
principled, virtuous, and of great integrity. He is powerful and reaches a high 
position. The person takes a great interest in gaining wealth and may do 
so in any number of different ways. He easily gets the better of his enemies or 
competitors. He will enjoy many powerful or prominent friends and may 
benefit from the government. Opportunities are plentiful, and investments 
and speculations will be profitable. There may be few children, or there may 
be difficulties with them due to the aspect the Sun casts on the 5th house. 
This position favors the wealth of the father and the relationship with 
him. As the 11th is a "growing" house, the person's authority, confidence, 
and power continuously expand. 


UCHCHA & SWAKSHETRA (exalted and own house)—If the Sun is in 
Aries or Leo in the 11th house, the benefits given above are heightened. The 
person will gain great wealth through many different sources of income. He 
will be powerful and reach a very high status. He will have grand ambitions, 
which he will realize in his lifetime. His eldest sibling is powerful and 
prosperous, and the person gains from that relationship. He also benefits 
from his uncle. He will have many prominent friends and is constantly 
offered opportunities. 


NEECHA (fallen)—If the Sun is in Libra in the 11th house, the person 
will not fulfill his dreams and desires. Or his desires are simply never- 
ending. The person may be poor and must work very hard for his wealth. 
There may be financial downfalls, and investments or speculations quickly 
fail. The person will be powerless and devoid of prominence or status. He will 
associate with friends who are weak, sickly, or beneath his level. The eldest 
sibling may lead a life of hardship or die early. Or that relationship is greatly 
disturbed. Opportunities rarely ever present themselves. No happiness or 
gains are derived from the paternal uncle. 


CHANDRA THE MOON IN THE 11th HOUSE 


WAXING MOON—TIf the waxing Moon is in the 1 1 th house, the person 
will have the most serious and far-reaching goals and desires, which he is 
likely to realize in his lifetime. His ambitions are related to activities 


ing the public, as well as the amassing of great wealth. The person will enjoy 19¢ 
many fine and prosperous friends, especially females. Because of the Moon's 
aspect on the 5th house, the person will be extremely intelligent and have 
many fine children with whom he will get along well. His financial specula- 
tions will be highly successful. The bright Moon in the house of gains and 
profits is one of the best placements for wealth, and therefore the person is 
very prosperous and may own land, buildings, fine conveyances, and other 
luxuries. He will profit from several different ventures at the same time. His 
eldest sibling will be special, powerful, or famous, and there will be happi- 
ness in that relationship. Opportunities will constantly arise for the person, 
especially those involving financial dealings. The person will never lose sight 
of his life-long dreams, and his actions will be consistent with that purpose. 
He will benefit from his paternal uncle. 


WANING MOON—TIf the waning Moon is in the 11 th house, the results 
are similar to what has been mentioned above but not quite so fortunate. 
The person is intent on realizing his dream in life, but it is not certain that 
he will. He is also very interested in gaining wealth and is relatively lucky in 
doing so. The person will have many friends, but they are not as prosperous 
as if the Moon were bright. There are also more occasional fluctuations in 
these friendships. There may be a marked closeness with the eldest sibling 
but not such intense benefits from him or her. 


UCHCHA & SWAKSHETRA (exalted and own house)—If the Moon is 
in Taurus or Cancer in the 11 th house, the benefits described under "wax- 
ing Moon" are magnified. The person may enjoy immense wealth. His eldest 
sibling may be famous or extremely special, and the person may greatly 
benefit on such account. He will be very fortunate in fulfilling his daily 
desires as well as realizing his major goals. His financial speculations will be 
extraordinarily profitable, and he will have fine children. He will be highly 
intelligent. He will have many very fine friends. If the Moon is waning, the 
benefits are proportionately lessened but still quite positive. 


NEECHA (fallen)—If the Moon is in Scorpio in the 1 1 th house, the 
person suffers on account of his eldest sibling. Either the relationship is 
marred, or the sibling leads a tedious life or dies early. The person will have 
few opportunities and must work hard for his wealth. He may have a terrible 
time trying to fulfill his desires, especially his major dreams in life. There 
will be no gains from the paternal uncle. The person may associate with 
friends beneath his level or persons whose lives are very difficult, and there 
will be sporadic troubles with them. The person may have intense and 
insatiable desires. 


KUJA—MARS IN THE 11th HOUSE 


The significations of Mars flourish in the 11 th house, as do most 
matters governed by the house itself. The person will be powerful, courage- 


ous, and highly ambitious. He will have plenty of opportunities in life and 
will be quite wealthy. He will achieve his major goals and desires, and may 
own land or buildings. He will have powerful and influential friends. There 
may, however, be difficulties in his relationship with them. And if Mars is in 
any way afflicted, the friendships are greatly disturbed. Mars in the 1 1 th 
does not at all favor the relationship with the eldest sibling or the paternal 
uncle. Either of their lives may be rather unfortunate. The person is talented 
in the use of his hands, mechanical ability, technical fields, and all kinds of 
repair work, and he may supplement his income in one of these ways. While 
speculation will be profitable, other Sth house affairs will be harmed by 
Mars' malefic aspect on that house. There may be abortions, miscarriages, 
difficulties with children, disturbed love affairs, and a rash or hot 
temperament. 


UCHCHA & SWAKSHETRA (exalted and own house)—TIf Mars is in 
Capricorn, Aries, or Scorpio in the 1 1 th house, the person will have great 
ambitions in life, which he is sure to realize. He will be very wealthy, powerful, 
and successful. He will enjoy a wonderful social life and have many extra- 
ordinary friends. His eldest sibling may be famous, prosperous, and long- 
lived, and he maybe involved in military work or a rulership position. There 
will be abundant opportunity in the person's life, and he will greatly benefit 
from his paternal uncle, who may be powerful and successful. 


NEECHA (fallen)—If Mars is in Cancer in the 11th house, the person 
will greatly suffer on account of his eldest sibling, or he will have none at all. If 
one does exist, he or she may lead a tedious life or die early, or the relation- 
ship is filled with tension and arguments. The person will not fulfill his main 
goals and ambitions in life, or he may be completely devoid of any such goals. 
The person is weak or powerless and lacking in opportunity. His friends may 
be below his status, low-class, or very weak in character. There may be 
tension or arguments in the person's friendships. 


BUDDHA MERCURY IN THE 11th HOUSE 


If Mercury is in the 1 1 th house without any malefic aspect, the person 
will be wealthy, and he will be successful in his financial undertakings. He 
will readily fulfill his desires and goals. This is an excellent placement for 
intelligence and the mind, as Mercury is well placed in the 1 1 th and at the 
same time aspects the 5th house. The person will therefore be brilliant, 
knowledgeable, and learned. He will associate with intelligent and refined 
friends. There will be many opportunities in his life, and his speculative 
ventures will be profitable. The person will benefit from his eldest sibling, 
who may be of an intellectual nature. He also enjoys a happy relationship 
with his uncle. The person may supplement his main source of income in 
various different ways and be especially adept in business, commerce, and 
trade. This is a fine placement for scientists, engineers, mathematicians, etc. 
If Mercury is afflicted, it loses its benefic status and the results are 


UCHCHA & SWAKSHETRA (exalted and own house)—If Mercury is 2€ 
in Virgo or Gemini in the 11 th house, the benefits given above are multi- 
plied. The person gains wealth very easily. He will enjoy many different 
avenues of income and will be highly successful in his financial specula- 
tions. He will have a great relationship with his eldest sibling, who may be 
prosperous, famous, and extremely intelligent. The person himself is bril- 
liant, wise, and knowledgeable. His desires, goals, and dreams will be 
realized. These ambitions may be related to learning or to educational 
activities and institutions. There will be abundant opportunities for this 
person. 


NEECHA (fallen)—If Mercury is in Pisces in the 1 1 th house, the 
person will suffer on account of his eldest sibling. The relationship may be 
useless, or that brother or sister maybe mentally unstable or lead a difficult 
life and die early. The person will not fulfill his goals and desires in life. He 
may not enjoy any happiness from friends, or he may associate with persons 
beneath himself. There may be losses or drastic financial downfalls due to 
speculation. There will be very little opportunity, and the person must work 
very hard for any wealth gained. There is no benefit from the paternal uncle. 
The person may experience constant insatiable desires. 


GURU_JUPITER IN THE 11th HOUSE 


Jupiter in the 11 th house is one of the finest placements of a planet 
in a house in terms of wealth and success in all undertakings. It is as if the 
person has the Midas touch, for everything he puts his hands on turns to 
gold. The person will be wealthy. His undertakings succeed very quickly, and 
he may gain wealth in any way he desires. Opportunities will present them- 
selves on a daily basis, with little or no interruption. From the 11 th, Jupiter 
will aspect the 3rd house, which specifically rules efforts and desires. It also 
aspects the 5th and 7th, the latter of which is a kama, or desire house. 
Therefore, the person will fulfill his major desires as well as his everyday 
efforts. He will be highly fortunate in the sphere of friends, groups, and social 
activities. He will have knowledgeable, spiritual, or wealthy friends. He will 
mostly associate with people above his social or financial status and intellec- 
tual level. He will get along very well with his eldest sibling, who will be 
prosperous or special. That sibling may also be knowledgeable, religious, or 
spiritual. The person may supplement his main source of income through 
activities such as astrology, spiritual teachings, and pure speculation. He 
will benefit from his paternal uncle, who is also prosperous. The person's 
ambitions and dreams are of great magnitude and may therefore effect 
much of society. Although this position is extremely fortunate in the ma- 
terialistic sense, the person's major goals may be related to religious, spirit- 
ual, or knowledge-oriented pursuits. Certain Hindu scriptures state that the 
person will have few children. This is because Jupiter rules children, and 
benefic planets are not much enhanced by upachaya houses. However, 
Jupiter in the 11 th aspects the 5th house, which should be quite beneficial 


for this signification. Therefore there is disagreement amongst the sages. 
The person is definitely quite intelligent. Also, he will love music, dance, and 
drama, as the 3rd house receives Jupiter's fortunate aspect. 


UCHCHA&SWAKSHETRA (exalted and own house)—IfJupiter is in 
Cancer, Sagittarius, or Pisces in the 11th house, the person is fortunate 
indeed. The benefits given above are multiplied. The person will have tre- 
mendous goals in life, which he will fulfill. He will have the finest quality 
friends and a wonderful social life. He will have an enormous amount of 
opportunity in his life and will be very wealthy. His eldest sibling may be 
famous or highly spiritual. He will benefit from his sibling as well as his 
maternal uncle. The person is extremely intelligent, virtuous, and spiritual. 
He will have beautiful and prosperous children, whom he will adore. He will 
succeed almost instantly in his undertakings. Speculations will be highly 
profitable. 


NEECHA (fallen)—If Jupiter is in Capricorn in the 11th house, the 
person may have exaggerated goals and ambitions which he will never 
realize. Luck and opportunity are both spoiled. The life of the eldest sibling is 
greatly marred, as is the relationship with him or her. The person will have to 
work very hard to gain any wealth, and he may fail to achieve even his daily 
desires. Relationships with friends are quite disturbed. The person will gain 
very little from his paternal uncle. This placement, as well as any fallen 
planet in the 1 1 th house, can make life quite tedious and bitter. 


SUTRA—VENUS IN THE 11th HOUSE 


If Venus is in the 1 1 th house, the person is very fortunate in fulfilling 
his goals and ambitions. He is lucky with opportunity and will gain wealth 
effortlessly. He will be very successful in any financial speculations. He will 
have many friends, especially females, and will enjoy a great social life. The 
person will benefit from and enjoy a loving relationship with his eldest 
sibling. The same is true of his paternal uncle. And either of these persons 
may be highly artistic and prosperous. The person himself may have a great 
love of music, dance, or drama, and his major goals may be so related. By 
virtue of the beneficial aspect Venus casts onto the 5th house, the person 
will be highly intelligent and learned. He will also greatly enjoy his children. 
The person will enjoy fine ornaments, comforts, and luxuries. He may, if he 
desires, supplement his income through dealings with art, confection, 
jewelry, cosmetics, and other Venus-ruled activities. Venus in the 1lthisa 
very fine position which improves the overall tenor of the horoscope in terms 
of wealth, happiness, and ease of life. 


UCHCHA & SWAKSHETRA (exalted & own house)—If Venus is in 
Pisces, Taurus, or Libra in the 11th house, the benefits described above are 
heightened. The person is extremely wealthy and fulfills his greatest dreams. 
He attains wealth suddenly and effortlessly. His eldest sibling may be 


ful or famous. The person has wonderful friends and a great social life. 
There is great talent in one of the fine arts, and the major goal in life may be 
so related. 


NEECHA (fallen)—If Venus is in Virgo in the 1 1 th house, the per- 
son may never fulfill his major goals in life. He will suffer on account of 
his eldest sibling, who will lead a difficult life or die early. There will be 
little opportunity in the person's life other than what he creates through 
his own perseverance. There will be few friends, and difficulties with the 
ones there are. Wealth, luxuries, and comforts are not at all favored by this 
placement. 


SAKI SATURN IN THE 11th HOUSE 


Saturn is greatly enhanced by its placement in the 11 th house. 
Therefore the person is long-lived, mature, wise, and powerful. He will 
have leadership qualities and wield much power. He may be involved in 
government and will benefit from eminent persons and authority figures. 
He will have many influential, powerful, or spiritual friends. Because 
malefics in upachaya houses give good results, the person will be wealthy, 
respected, and influential. He may own property or buildings and be a 
landlord. This position does not favor the signification of the eldest 
sibling, and there may be suffering on such account. The same is true of 
any paternal uncles. Because of the aspect cast on the 5th house, the 
number of children is limited, and certain Hindu scriptures declare that 
the person will have a broken education due to that same aspect. The 
person is likely to have rather far-reaching goals and ambitions, and he 
has the luck and fortitude to realize these dreams. Even though Saturn 
aspects the 5th house, speculations will be profitable because the 11 th 
house governs gains and profits. In such endeavors the person may be 
conservative and cautious. 


UCHCHA & SWAKSHETRA (exalted and own house)—If Saturn is 
in Libra, Capricorn, or Aquarius in the llth house, the benefits described 
above are magnified. The person will be extremely wealthy and powerful. 
He will be a leader of sorts and may enjoy great political success. He will 
fulfill his dreams, which may affect large portions of society. He will 
benefit from his eldest sibling, who may be powerful and prosperous. The 
person lives to a ripe old age and is very successful. There may be a great 
rise in wealth and status in his 36th year. He also benefits from his pa- 
ternal uncle and has many friends who are powerful, prosperous, 
refined, or spiritual. 


NEECHA (fallen)—If Saturn is in Aries in the 11 th house, the per- 
son will suffer on account of his eldest sibling, who will lead a life of hard- 
ship or die early. Or there will be no elder brothers and sisters. The person 
will be very unfortunate regarding opportunities, and he will have to work 


hard to gain any wealth. He will not realize his dreams in life. He will wield 
little or no power. Longevity is decreased. The person may associate with 
friends beneath his level or with those whose lives are extremely difficult. 


RAHU_THE NORTH NODE IN THE 1 1 th HOUSE 


Rahu in the 1 1 th house is an excellent placement bestowing 
wealth, profits, and gains. There will be respect from community members, 
and the person is fortunate to have wealthy, powerful, and influential 
friends. There will be many opportunities for financial gain. The person 
will have strong goals and ambitions, and is likely to fulfill them. There 
may be difficulties in the relationship with the eldest sibling. Hindu 
scriptures mention that the person will have few children, or difficulties 
with them. This is because if Rahu is in the 11th, Ketu occupies the 5th. 


UCHCHA (exalted)—If Rahu is in Gemini or Virgo in the 1 1 th 
house (or stationary direct or in forward motion), the benefits described 
above are magnified. The person will obtain great wealth and enjoy many 
worldly luxuries. He will have the best of friends, and they will be powerful 
and prosperous. They may also be spiritual. The person's eldest sibling 
will be special or famous, and there will be benefits and happiness on that 
account. 


-RETU_THE SOUTH NODE IN THE 11th HOUSE 


If Ketu is in the 1 1 th house, the person will be successful in his 
undertakings and fortunate in gaining wealth. There may be strange 
friends or difficulties with them. Hindu scriptures assert that the person 
has many fine qualities and that he is learned and wealthy. 


UCHCHA (exalted)—If Ketu is in Virgo or Gemini in the 11th house 
(or stationary direct or in forward motion), the person is wealthy and is 
constantly presented with opportunities. He will have many fine friends, 
some of whom may be of an ascetic or spiritual nature. The person will 
benefit from his eldest sibling, who is quite special or prosperous. 


12TH HOUSE 2¢ 
VYAYA BHAVA—HOUSE OF EXPENDITURE ¢” LOSS 


The 12th house corresponds to a water sign and is therefore a 
house of moksha (self-realization or final liberation). 


Expenditure, waste, misfortune, salvation, final liberation, the state 
after death, bed comforts (sex life), bedding, confinement, misfortune, 
hospitals, prisons, secret enemies, "unknown places" (far-off lands), life in 
foreign countries, hearing (left ear), vision (left eye), feet. 


The 12th house is the worst of the dusthanas—the evil or harmful 
houses. Planets occupying this house are destroyed, as are the houses 
they rule. The ruler of the 12th will cause harm wherever it is placed. The 
reason is that since this is the house of expenditure, anything connected 
to it becomes an expense or a debt. Houses or planets aspected by the 
12th ruler are also spoiled. 


The more positive side of this house is that it specifically governs 
moksha, or final liberation. A beneficial 12th house indicates that one 
may be well on the way to higher consciousness or enlightenment. Also, 
the state after death will be heavenly and pleasant. 


This house also rules far-off lands and therefore is to be analyzed 
when considering travel. 


The karaka, or indicator, of the 12th house is Saturn. 


The ruler of the 12th house placed in the: 


1st HOUSE 

Poor health, thin or emaciated body, poor appearance, unhappy, lit- 

tle confidence or self-esteem. This position decreases longevity. Gains no 

respect or fame, unhappy childhood—poor start in life—ascetic or spiri- 

tual nature. There may be travel for spiritual purposes. Enjoyable sex life. 
Bad for married life, as the 12th lord aspects the 7th house. 


2nd HOUSE 

Poor, financial losses, unhappy family life, enjoys using foul lan- 

guage, poor vision in right eye, poor hearing in right ear, eats bad foods, 
poor speaker, little imagination, may speak lies. 


3rd HOUSE 
No happiness from siblings, sibling may die early or lead a life of 
hardship, cannot fulfill desires, no literary ability. No talent or apprecia- 
tion of music, dance, or drama. Fearful, cowardly, few adventures, unsuc- 
cessful efforts, defect in right ear, no initiative. The 3rd house is in no way 
connected to the mind, as it is in Western astrology, yet the 12th lord in 
this house gives strong intuition. It is not that one is a "psychic," but the 
person will make uncannily accurate judgements based solely on feelings. 


4th HOUSE 

A moksha lord in a moksha house gives a strong spiritual nature 

or desire for liberation. No happiness from mother, mother dies early or 
has a hard life, few comforts, few fixed assets, car problems. The person 
will rent out part of his home or buy houses to rent. Little happiness. 


Career difficulties and many changes of career, as the 12th lord aspects 
the 10th house. 


Sth HOUSE 

Few children, no happiness from children, child may die early or 

lead a difficult life, ascetic or spiritual child, mental problems, no peace of 

mind, losses from investments, previous life was wasted —no credit brought 

over into this life—immoral or unrighteous, difficulty in passing exams, 
unhappy love affairs. 


6th HOUSE 

Unhealthy, bad jobs, problems with servants and subordinates, no 

gains from uncle, defeats enemies and competitors (malefics in 6th are 

good in this respect). This is a good position for moksha, as the 12th lord 
aspects its own house. It will also decrease one's debts and expenses. 


7th HOUSE 
Unhappy married life, divorce, debts & expenses on account of 
spouse, spouse may die early or lead a life of hardship, spouse has no 


confidence, problematic or unsuccessful partnerships. Since the 12th lord 207 
will aspect the ascendant, there will be poor health, little fame, and the 
possibility of an ascetic nature. 


8th HOUSE 

A Moksha lord in a moksha house gives a strong spiritual nature. 

Interest in occult subjects, desire for final liberation, no benefits from 

partner's wealth or insurance companies, possible sexual diseases. This 
position decreases longevity. 


9th HOUSE 

No happiness from father, debts and expenses on account of father, 

father dies early or leads a difficult life, no luck, no solutions to 

problems, no appreciation of religion or philosophy, no faith, no gains from 

elders or gurus, sleeps in fine beds, good sex life, attains peaceful state 

after death. This is a particularly bad position, since bhagya bhaua—the 
house of fortune—is spoiled. 


10th HOUSE 

Career problems, merit goes unnoticed, many career changes, frus- 

tration trying to find one's proper dharma, no honor or fame, commits 

bad deeds. Since the 12th lord will aspect the 4th house it will be hard to 

obtain a degree and there will be unhappiness, friction with the mother, 
car problems, and other 4th house difficulties. 


11th HOUSE 


Poor relations with eldest sibling, eldest sibling may die early or 
lead a difficult life, ascetic friends, bad friends, debts or expenses on 
account of friends, few opportunities, cannot fulfill desires and ambitions, 
financial losses, few profits or gains. Problems with children, bad invest- 
ments, and mental problems, as the 5th house receives the malefic aspect 
of the 12th lord. 


12th HOUSE 

Planet in swakshetra (own house). This is an excellent position for 

the spiritual seeker, as the person will be dedicated on the path of mok- 

sha. Attains heavenly state after death, few expenses (saves money easily), 
good sex life, sleeps in fine bed with ornaments, success in foreign lands. 


PLANETS IN THE 12TH HOUSE 


The 12th is a dusthana, or evil house, where any occupying planets 
and the houses they rule greatly suffer. The significations seen from this 
house are expenses, pleasures of the bed (sex), bedding, and the state 
after death. Essentially, benefic planets enhance these significations, 
while malefics cause the opposite. If the 12th house is afflicted, the per- 
son will, no matter how much money he earns, always be compelled to 
spend. There will arise constant unexpected expenses, even though these 


are often caused by his own desires. The particular planet in the house 
will give a clue as to what the person spends his wealth on. 


The 12th specifically rules moksha, or self-realization, and there- 
fore indicates the tendency to follow the spiritual path. It also reveals the 
likelihood of success in this important evolutionary process. 


Regarding the state after death, Hindus believe there are many dif- 
ferent planes or levels of existence, called lokas, where the soul may reside 
during its period of rest between incarnations. The highest and most for- 
tunate plane is called Brahma loka and is ruled by Jupiter. The next 
most fortunate level is Deva loka, ruled by the Moon and Venus. Then 
comes Tirya loka, ruled by the Sun and Mars. Finally, the lowest plane is 
called Naraka loka and is governed by Mercury and Saturn. As this is all 
highly speculative information, little mention is made of the matter for 
the time being. 


The karaka of the 12th house is Saturn. Final judgement of 12th 
house matters should not be made without consideration of the house 
karaka and the lord of the house. 


RAVLTHE SUN IN THE 12th HOUSE 


The significations of the Sun are greatly harmed in the 12th house. 
Therefore, the person may have a disturbed relationship with his father. 
Or the father leads a difficult life, is sickly, or dies early. As the luminaries 
rule eyesight, there may be poor vision, especially in the left eye. The per- 
son will lack confidence and power, and therefore this is an unfavorable 
position for worldly success. It is also considered unfortunate by ancient 
Hindu sages because the person is likely to wander off to remote foreign 
countries, where he may even choose to reside. However, the person may 
be extremely spiritual and intent on realizing enlightenment or final lib- 
eration. He will be introspective by nature and enjoy periods of solitude or 
meditation. While ancient scriptures declare the person to be sinful and 
immoral, they do not describe in which ways. It is noted that many per- 
sons with this placement are overly indulgent in escapist pleasures such 
as drugs and alcohol. The person may also be rather detached from 
society and its morals, rules and regulations. In any case, the Sun in the 
12th house is bad for wealth and for name and fame. There may be many 
expenses and misfortunes in life. There is also the possibility of impri- 
sonment or of confinement in a monastery for spiritual purposes but 
these are rare occurrences and happen only if the entire horoscope is 
either extremely spiritual or terribly afflicted. 


UCHCHA & SWAKSHETRA (exalted and own house)—If the Sun is 
in Aries or Leo in the 12th house, the person will be highly spiritual and 
may be intent on realizing enlightenment. There is a strong likelihood 


that the person will visit remote foreign lands where he will be very suc 2€ 
cessful. He will be thrifty and spend his money wisely. The person is not 
beset with large expenses and debts. There will be a good deal of sexual 
pleasure, and the person will enjoy finely made beds with ornaments. He 
may reside in a heavenly state after death. Although the life of the father 

is enhanced by the Sun's placement in an auspicious sign, there are also 
difficulties due to the 12th house destructiveness. Therefore, the effects 

are rather mixed and there is a possibility that the father is strong or 
powerful but somewhat withdrawn from worldly life. He may also be 
spiritual. 


NEECHA (fallen)—If The Sun is in Libra in the 12th house, the 
person will greatly suffer on account of his father, who will lead a difficult 
life or die early. The relationship with the father may also be terribly dis- 
turbed. The person himself will lack confidence, power, and authority. 
There may be difficulties enjoying sexual pleasure. The person spends 
more than he can afford and constantly faces debts and huge expenses. 
He will be highly vulnerable to thieves and robbers. There will be difficul- 
ties in far-off countries if the person visits such lands. 


CHANDRA THE MOON IN THE 12th HOUSE 


WAXING MOON—The significations of the all-important Moon are 
spoiled in the 12th house. Therefore the general well-being of the person 
is harmed. There will be health problems, especially during childhood, 
and Hindu scriptures state that the person has some physical deformity. 
The person will have difficulties with his mother, or she may lead a diffi- 
cult life or die early. The person may have many mental worries, or lack 
stability and common sense. He may have a poor memory and problems 
with his eyesight. As the Moon rules grains, ancient sages have declared 
that the person will either eat very little, eat bad foods, or not have enough 
to eat. Because the Moon is the most crucial influence in Hindu astrology, 
this placement can indicate tremendous hardship and suffering in the 
person's life. The difficulties will especially affect the emotions and may be 
caused by females, the wife, or the mother. Wealth and fame are not at all 
favored, and the person is likely to be unloved, often insulted and humil- 
iated, or troubled by enemies. Happiness is certainly harmed. The person 
may have the tendencies of a loner and live an obscure life of solitude. He 
will also travel to remote, far-off lands, where he may choose to reside. The 
positive side of the placement is that 12th house matters flourish by the 
presence of the benefic bright Moon. Therefore, the person will be highly 
spiritual and interested in meditation and enlightenment. He will be 
thrifty and able to spend his wealth wisely and for good purposes. He will 
enjoy great sexual pleasure throughout his life and sleep on fine beds. He 
will attain a peaceful heavenly state after death. The person may be highly 
gifted in occult subjects. If the Moon is well aspected, the person is enor- 
mously spiritual and well on his way on the path of moksha. 


WANING MOON—There is little difference in this position from 
what has already been mentioned above, except that the waning Moon is 
even less fortunate. The positive effects which have been mentioned are 
weakened or canceled and the person may be lazy, lethargic, and very 
unhappy. He may be mean or cruel-hearted due to his miseries. Eyesight 
is more delicate, and the health and bodily organs are more likely to be 
harmed. Emotional suffering and problems with females are intensified. 
The state after death is of course not as favorable. 


UCHCHA & SWAKSHETRA (exalted and own house)—If the Moon 
is in Taurus or Cancer in the 12th house, the person will be extremely 
spiritual and well on his way towards moksha, or final liberation. He will 
attain to heaven after his death. He will visit remote, far-off countries. In 
his life he will enjoy a great deal of sexual pleasure and will sleep on very 
fine beds. The person's mother may be highly spiritual, or she may be 
withdrawn, in a way, from worldly activities. There may be difficulties in 
the mother's life or in the relationship with her due to the harm caused 
by the destructive 12th house energy. But she will be strong or 
powerful in spite of this. The person will be good at conserving his wealth 
and will not meet with unexpected expenses and debts. If the Moon is 
waning in this house, the benefits are proportionately lessened but still 
mostly positive. 


NEECHA (fallen)—If the Moon is in Scorpio in the 12th house, the 
person may lose his mother at an early age. Or the mother leads a difficult 
life and the relationship with her is marred. The person is besieged with 
expenses and debts, and cannot hold on to his wealth. There may be diffi- 
culties in receiving sexual pleasure, or the person may be overly indulgent 
in such activities. Also, the person may suffer problems in his left ear, left 
eye, or in his feet. There may be disturbances in foreign countries. The 
person may be troubled by thieves and robbers. He may also have secret 
enemies. He will suffer greatly from females, and his emotional life may be 
torturous. The person resides in a low level after death. The fallen Moon 
in the 12th house is a very bad placement in general and will cause a 
tremendous amount of misery throughout the life. 


KUJA MARS IN THE 12th HOUSE 


If Mars is in the 12th house, the person may have eye afflictions or 
problems in his left eye. He may also have a hearing problem in the left 
ear, as well as afflictions involving the feet. The person may have a very 
strong sex drive. He will enjoy hard beds. There will be many expenses 
arising throughout life, and money passes swiftly through the person's 
hands. Hindu scriptures declare that the person will be immoral, sinful, 
or mean and that there may be danger of imprisonment. They also say 
that the person may be highly vulnerable to thieves and robbers. Because 
Mars is spoiled in this house, the person may own no land or buildings. 


There may especially be troubles with brothers and sisters, since Mars 211 
rules siblings, as does the 3rd house, which in this case is negatively 
aspected by Mars. Mars in the 12th house is an indication of Kujadosha, 

or Mars affliction, where married life and domestic harmony are spoiled 
unless the person marries another with a Kujadosha horoscope. The 
exception to this rule is if Mars in the 12th is posited in the sign of 
Sagittarius ( further details see page 67). The ancient sages have also 
declared that a female with this placement may be addicted to intoxi- 
cants. The houses ruled by Mars are ruined by this placement. 


UCHCHA & SWAKSHETRA (exalted and own house)—If Mars is in 
Capricorn, Aries, or Scorpio in the 12th house, the person will have an 
excellent ability to conserve his wealth. He will not face great debts or 
expenses. He will sleep on fine beds and receive a great deal of sexual 
pleasure in his life. He may travel to remote, far-off countries and be suc- 
cessful there. There will be success in any attempts made on the path to 
higher consciousness. The person will not be bothered by thieves or 
robbers. He may have younger brothers and sisters who are spiritual or 
engaged in the pursuit of self-realization. 


NEECHA (fallen)—If Mars is in Cancer in the 12th house, the per- 
son will spend more than he earns. He is encumbered by debts and 
expenses. He may often be robbed by thieves or secret enemies. He will not 
sleep in fine beds and may have a disturbed sex life. If the person 
travels to remote foreign lands, he will experience difficulties there. He may 
have troubles in the left eye, left ear, or the feet. He may reside in a very 
low level after death. The person may not own land and may suffer greatly 
on account of his brothers and sisters. There may also be impurities of 
the blood. 


BUDDHA MERCURY IN THE 12th HOUSE 


If Mercury is in the 12th house without affliction, the person will be 
thrifty and able to hold on to his wealth. He will not meet with a great many 
expenses, and he will spend on good causes and charities, or for religious 
purposes. He will enjoy a good deal of sexual pleasure and sleep on fine beds. 
The significations of Mercury are harmed, and therefore the person may be 
troubled in thought or mind. He may have problems in educational matters 
or interruptions in his learning. The person's confidence and his nervous 
system may also come under attack. Ancient scriptures declare the person to 
be poor, cruel, and humiliated, but quite capable of keeping his word. 


UCHCHA & SWAKSHETRA (exalted and own house)—If Mercury is 
in Virgo or Gemini in the 12th house, the person is very fortunate in 
retaining his wealth and avoiding expenses and debts. He will not be 
bothered by thieves and robbers. He will be spiritual and meet with success 
if he takes to the path of enlightenment. He will also sleep on fine beds 


2 


enjoy a great deal of sexual pleasure in his life. He will have good hearing and 
vision. He will be successful in any remote foreign countries he may visit. 


NEECHA (fallen)—If Mercury is in Pisces in the 12th house, the 
person will not be able to hold on to his wealth. He will always face large debts 
and expenses. He will sleep in dilapidated beds and may reside in a low level 
after death. He will not recetve much sexual pleasure. The person is troubled 
by thieves or secret enemies. There is no success in remote-far-off lands. The 
significations of Mercury are devastated by this placement. Therefore the 
person may lack confidence and mental stability and be highly nervous. 
Educational and intellectual pursuits are spoiled. 


GURU—JUPITER IN THE 12th HOUSE 


IfJupiter is in the 12th house, the person will be thrifty and capable of 
holding on to his wealth. He will not be bothered by enormous or unexpected 
expenses. He will attain the most heavenly state after death. He will sleep on 
nice beds with ornaments and enjoy a great deal of sexual pleasure in his life. 
He may not be interested in religion, philosophy, or any kind of higher 
knowledge. There may be breaks or difficulties in academia if the person 
goes to college. The person may have few children, or problems in the 
relationship with them. If the rest of the horoscope shows spiritual tenden- 
cies, the person may spend a great deal of wealth on religious or charitable 
purposes, and be highly successful on the path to enlightenment. Ancient 
Hindu scriptures state that the person is loud, foul-mouthed, or especially 
arrogant. They also label him with such terms as boastful, shameless, 
indolent, and lazy. Luck and fortune are of course harmed. 


UCHCHA& SWAKSHETRA (exalted and own house)—IfJupiter is in 
Cancer, Sagittarius, or Pisces in the 12th house, the person will be highly 
spiritual and well on his way along the path of higher consciousness. He will 
have extraordinary success in gaining enlightenment. He will also go to 
heaven after he dies. He will spend his wealth wisely and rarely meet with 
unexpected debts and expenses. He will sleep on fine beds and enjoy a great 
deal of sexual pleasure in his life. He will have good eyesight and hearing. 
There will be great success in remote far-off-countries. He will not be 
troubled by robbers, thieves, and secret enemies. He may have highly spiri- 
tual children who are engaged in the path of moksha. 


NEECHA (fallen)—If Jupiter is in Capricorn in the 12th house, the 
person will be troubled by expenses and debts and will have a terrible time 
holding on to his wealth. He will receive little sexual pleasure or have trouble 
in that sphere. He does not sleep on nice beds. There may be problems in his 
left ear, left eye, or his feet. There is no success in remote far-off-lands. The 
person may be troubled by theft. The significations ofJupiter are devastated 
and the person greatly suffers on account of his children. His luck and 
fortune are marred and he may have no use for religion, philosophy, or 
higher knowledge of any kind. 


SUKRA—VENUS IN THE 12th HOUSE 2] 


If Venus is in the 12th house, the person goes to heaven after his 
death. In his life he will sleep on fine beds and enjoy an abundance of sexual 
pleasure. He will be very thrifty and able to hold on to his wealth. He will 
not be subject to a great many expenses. Although he will spend his 
money wisely, he is much given to spending his wealth on luxuries and 
sensual pleasures. He will especially enjoy giving parties and entertaining 
others, and he will be generous or intent on helping others with his 
money. There will be success on the path of self-realization and final 
liberation. Ancient Hindu sages have declared this to be an excellent 
placement for wealth. Though perhaps illogical, such is generally the case. 
They also state that the person may lie or promise more than he can 
actually deliver. Although it would seem that all of the significations of 
Venus should be devastated by the destructiveness of the 12th house, in 
practice married life is not so blatantly harmed. Happiness and artistic 
sensitivity may, however, be lacking. And there is the possibility of 
reproductive-system illnesses. All in all, Venus is the only planet considered 
by the sages to be generally beneficial in the 12th house. If Venus is afflicted, 
love affairs and married life are badly marred. 


UCHCHA & SWAKSHETRA (exalted and own house)—If Venus is in 
Pisces, Taurus, or Libra, the person will go to heaven after he dies. He will 
also enjoy great success if he pursues the path of enlightenment. He will be 
thrifty and quite capable of retaining his wealth. He does not meet with 
unexpected debts and expenses. He will sleep on very fine beds with orna- 
ments and enjoy a great deal of sexual pleasure in his life. He will be highly 
successful in any experiences in remote foreign countries. The person is 
protected from robbers, thieves, and muggers, and he has no secret enemies. 
The person's spouse may be spiritual or involved in the path of moksha. 


NEECHA (fallen)—IfVenus is in Virgo in the 12th house, the person's 
marriage and love life are greatly harmed, or the spouse leads a difficult life 
and dies early. The person himself cannot hold on to money. He is beset with 
huge expenses and debts. The person may be overly indulgent in sex. There 
may also be reproductive-system ailments. There may be a problem in the 
left eye, left ear, or the feet. There will be problems in remote-far-off 
countries if the person visits such lands. The person may reside in a low 
level after death. He may also be especially vulnerable to thieves, robbers, 
and secret enemies. 


SAN/-SATURN IN THE 12th HOUSE 


If Saturn is in the 12th house, the person's longevity is curtailed. as is 
his leadership ability. The person is besieged with expenses and cannot hold 
on to any wealth he earns. The person sleeps on plain or hard beds and 
receives little sexual pleasure in his life. There may be bad vision in the left 
eye or hearing problems in the left ear. There may also be foot diseases. 


Unless Saturn is ruling good houses or is aspected by a benefic, the state 
after death is said to be unpleasant or difficult. This placement does not 
favor a steady career or the earning of wealth. Hindu scriptures have stated 
that the person is likely to have a deformed or defective body. They also 
assert that the person is stupid. The houses ruled by Saturn are of course 
spoiled. 


UCHCHA & SWAKSHETRA (exalted and own house)—If Saturn is in 
Libra, Capricorn, or Aquarius in the 12th house, the person will be adept at 
retaining his wealth and spending his money wisely. He is not troubled by 
high debts and expenses. He will sleep on well-made beds and enjoy much 
sexual pleasure in his life. He will be successful in remote foreign lands. The 


person may enjoy great success in the pursuit of higher consciousness. He 
will not be troubled by theft. 


NEECHA (fallen)—If Saturn is in Aries in the 12th house, the person's 
longevity and leadership ability are greatly curtailed. The person will spend 
more wealth than he earns. He will face large debts and expenses. He will 
sleep on hard or dilapidated beds and receive little sexual pleasure. He may 
have problems in his left eye, left ear, or his feet. He will have little success in 
remote foreign countries or in the pursuit of enlightenment. He will reside in 
a very low level after death. The person may often be troubled by thieves. 


RAHU_THE NORTH NODE IN THE 12th HOUSE 


If Rahu is in the 12th house, the person will spend whatever wealth he 
obtains. Hindu scriptures declare that the wealth is totally wasted, the 
person commits sinful deeds, and that the person goes to an unpleasant 
plane after death. This placement may give problems in the left ear or left eye, 
and if Rahu is in an inimical sign, the person will gain little sexual pleasure. 


UCHCHA (exalted)—If Rahu is in Gemini or Virgo in the 12th house 
(or stationary direct or in forward motion), the person will be extremely 
thrifty and will not meet with unexpected expenses. There will be great 
success in foreign lands, and the person derives a good deal of sexual 
pleasure. The state after death will be heavenly. 


KETU_THE SOUTH NODE IN THE 12th HOUSE 


Ketu in the 12th house is an excellent placement for the spiritual 
seeker, as there will be good discriminative ability and an interest in spiri- 
tual evolution. The person may, however, experience many unexpected 
expenses and debts. There may also be little sexual pleasure. Hindu scrip- 
tures relate that the person may spend his wealth on wasteful or sinful 
pleasures and have trouble in the left eye or left ear. 


UCHCHA (exalted)—If Ketu is in Gemini or Virgo in the 12th house 


(or stationary direct or in forward motion), the person will be very fortunate 
215 in retaining his wealth, as there are very few unexpected expenses. This 
placement gives very fine spiritual tendencies and benefits. Also, the person 
goes to a heavenly plane after death. He will enjoy a great deal of sexual 
pleasure in his life and be successful in any dealings in foreign lands. 


THE VIMSOTTARI DASA SYSTEM OF PREDICTION 


DASAS—PLANETARY PERIODS (in order of occurrence) 


The Sun 6 years 
The Moon 10 years 
Mars 7 years 
Rahu 18 years 
Jupiter 16 years 
Saturn 19 years 
Mercury 17 years 
Ketu 7 years 
Venus 20 years 


Perhaps the greatest feature of Hindu astrology is the dasa (pro- 
nounced dasha) system of prediction. A dasa is a period of time during 
which one's life is influenced or governed by a particular planet. One may 
be born into the beginning, middle, or end of any of the 9 planetary peri- 
ods, but from that point on the successive dasas are fixed in the set order 
as listed above. In other words, a person born at the tail end of a Venus 
dasa may experience only a few months or years of that period before he 
meets the 6-year Sun dasa, followed by the 10-year Moon dasa, and so 
on. Naturally each planet, by its essential nature, has certain traits which 
will characterize the entire period, but only in a general way. For example, 
in a Saturn dasa, one is certain to be more serious, disciplined, or career- 
oriented, whereas a Mercury period will bring more emphasis on learning, 
communicating, and intellectual pursuits. But as already mentioned, 
this is rather nonspecific. The most accurate and detailed assessment will 
follow based upon the total analysis of the considered planet. For example 
in a Saturn dasa, if that planet rules the 7th house, then the period must 
in some way relate to married life. And if Saturn is placed in the 2nd 
house, then financial matters will also be a point of focus. Whether these 
affairs are favored or disturbed depends upon an accurate delineation 
of the overall condition of the planet. For this reason, it is crucial to 
have a strong grasp of the basics of Hindu astrology before attempting to 
make predictions of the effects of a dasa. 

The shortest dasa, that of the Sun, lasts 6 years, while the Venus 
period is the longest, lasting 20 years. Since people experience many 
changes in such time frames, these dasas are divided into bhuktis, or 
subperiods. Each dasa has 9 bhuktis, one for each of the 9 planets. The 


first subperiod in a dasa is ruled by the same planet running the dasa. 
For example, a Moon dasa will begin with Moon Moon. Then the succes- 
sive order listed above continues, i.e., Moon Mars, Moon Rahu, Moon Jup- 
iter, etc., until all the 9 planets have had their effect. 


While a bhuktiin a short dasa may last only 6 or 8 months, one in 
a Saturn dasa may go for as long as 3 years. Therefore even the sub- 
periods may be broken down into antara dasas (also called vidasas), or 
inter-subperiods. Although techniques exist to divide these periods even 
further, generally a Hindu astrologer will simply consider the dasas and 
bhuktis throughout a person's life. However, if time and interest exist, 
even these inter-subperiods may be useful. 


The total number of years of the combined dasas add up to 120 
years, and it is thought by the Hindus that this is actually the normal 
span of human life. But they conclude that because man is presently liv- 
ing such a degraded existence, very few reach this ripe old age. Therefore 
certain planetary periods will never have a chance to run their dasas in a 
person's life. It should also be mentioned that in Hindu astrology, with its 
almost endless number of techniques, there are 40 dasa systems, of 
which the Vimsottari (pronounced Vim-sho-tree) is the most popular and 
widely used. Since the author has found little accuracy in other dasa 
systems, it is understandable why Vimsottari prevails. 


The exact part of a dasa one is born into is determined by the 
degree of the Moon at the time of birth. The 360 degree zodiac is broken 
up into 27 nakshatras, or constellations, each measuring 13 1/3 degrees 
and ruled by a particular planet. The dasa one enters at birth thus 
depends upon which constellation the Moon occupies, since it is the 
planet ruling the constellation whose dasa is under way. How much time 
is left in that period hinges upon which degree of the constellation the 
Moon resides in. Below are listed the nakshatras and their ruling planets. 
It is unnecessary to memorize these, as they are given simply for the pur- 
pose of understanding the technique. To determine the exact degrees of 
each constellation, please turn to "Nakshatras" on page 331. 


CONSTELLATION RULING PLANET 


Krittika, Uttara-phalguna, Uttarashada The Sun 


Rohini, Hasta, Sravana The Moon 
Mrigisira, Chitta, Dhanishta Mars 
Aridra, Swati, Satabhisha Rahu 
Puma vasu, Visakha, Poorvabhadra Jupiter 
Pushyami, Anuradha, uttarabhadra Saturn 
Aslesha, Jyeshta, Revati Mercury 
Makha, Moola, Aswini, Ketu 


Poorva-phalguna, Poorvashadha, Bharini Venus 


INSTRUCTIONS FOR DETERMINING THE DASA ENTERED AT BIRTH 2: 
Refer to table on page 221 


First note the exact degree and minute and sign the Moon was in 
at birth. For the following directions let us use the Moon in 2 degrees-20 
minutes in the sign of Taurus. Now go to the left-hand column of the 
table and find the same longitude (degree & minute) of the Moon's posi- 
tion at birth. 


Next, go to the top of the table and find which column is to be used 
for the Moon in Taurus and follow this down until the appropriate longi- 
tude point is reached. 


The numbers indicating years, months, and days which are found 
on the same line as that of the Moon's longitude reveal the duration of 
time still remaining in the dasa in operation. In this case the dasa in 
operation is that of the Sun. The time remaining in that period is 3 years, 
5 months, and 12 days, after which the other successive dasas run their 
courses (i.e., 10 years of Moon, 7 years Mars, 18 years Rahu, etc.). 


Now it must be explained what to do if the Moon's longitude falls 
BETWEEN the 20 minute intervals listed in the left-hand column. In 
such a case, locate the closest degree and minute to the Moon's position 
and note the difference in minutes. This figure must be less than 10. 


As an example, let us say the Moon was in Aries, 23 degrees-22 
minutes. The closest longitude listed is 23 degrees-20 minutes, leaving a 
difference of 2 minutes. Note that at the exact degree of 23 degrees-20 
minutes, the dasa at birth is Venus and the duration of this period 
remaining after birth is exactly 5 years. Now, in order to account for the 2 
minute difference, go to the smaller table on page 222 entitled "Propor- 
tional Parts for Dasas of Planets." First locate the column for Venus and 
then the difference of minutes which is listed in the far left column. The 
appropriate figure in this case is 18 days. Since the 2 minutes was an 
INCREASE of time (22 was more than 20), the 18 days must be SUB- 
TRACTED from 5 years. When calculating dasas and bhuktis, months are 
counted as 30 days. Therefore the time of Venus dasa remaining at birth 
is 4 years, 11 months, and 12 days. 


In cases where the degree of the Moon is some minutes LESS 
THAN the closest longitude given in the far left column, the difference in 
days or months would have to be ADDED to the duration of dasa 
remaining. 

DETERMINING THE BHUKTI 


The next step is to determine the subperiod which is in effect. This 


20 
dura- 


is easily done by referring to the table on page 223 which gives the 


tion of all bhuktis within each dasa. 


Continuing with the example above, subtract the balance of time 
remaining in the dasa at birth (4 yrs., 11 mos., 12 days) from the FULL 
dasa (Venus = 20 years) to distinguish how much time has already 
passed. Note that in order to make the subtraction possible, reductions 
are necessary (20 yrs. = 19 yrs., 11 mos., 30 days). 


yrs. mos. days 
19 11 30 

- 04 -11 -12 
15 00 18 


Now locate the bhukti table for Venus and note that after 15 yrs., 0 
mos., and 18 days all bhuktis through Jupiter are completed. Therefore 
the one underway (at birth) is Saturn. 


ANTARA DASAS—The calculations for inter—subperiods take up 
several pages in tables alone, and therefore the reader may refer to Lahiri's 
CONDENSED EPHEMERIS or Grace Inglis' book HINDU DASA SYSTEM 
(see bibliography). The dasa bhukti tables in this book are from Lahiri's 
ephemeris. Antara dasas are especially important during extended bhuk- 
tis which may last as long as two or three years in some cases. 


NOTE—A computerized horoscope service which calculates the Vimsottari dasas and 
bhuktis is offered at the back of this book. 


Balance of Vimsottari Dasa by Longitude of Moon 


Long. 


In Taurus Moon In Gemini 


Moon In Artes 


Moon [In Cancer 


Scorplo. Pisces 


Moon 


of 
Moon 


Virgo. Capricom = Libra. Aquarius 


Leo. Sag) tar. 


VOMONT TOONS 
EORANOTORNG 
ST OMAINNAN AD 


VOR we Deana 
EVN Han 


TIM ANAN AN 


UOONDECONS 
EVTNOOCAkRAG 


STert TOOM CII 


VORrK-DNANNS 
ESOR WO =Ot 


= OOO Oi vi wy 


SRSORSO RG 


9 O90-—$=AaANN 


=OOHOTHR = 


MINNNANN = 


uMmoCows TNS 
LAU) Pep er oe oF oP 


CRSORSORE 


0707 Oe tr eu 


SVOOW SAD 
TANOVCKeKRAAaM 


B_Oonagos 


ArROTNOOAL 


SDV Har 
AMOIMMMANAAN 


PREORSEORG 


SOOrreneag 


HANG Cacggew 
sO-Oooonr- 


CoOoaavsonn 
——< 


Agagooosses 


Wom OADMNSG 
VO9VSgaaanag 


| tinal 
ennonnast 


M—-AOTASOO 
NA er ee ano 


PRSORSORG 
AARCOO--- 


aS oe 


one 
MOON O00 01 oS 


OOwmwo s Tee 


Se ree oe 
ATOwOOARN 


SOAaaVRonn 


oooocoooeco 
SIoGAwVMIanw 
MOOR HHeE HO 


ANABMOOSOo 
NOorTNovoeo 
oOcoooaqnang 


CMUDFAVOROS 
AMOtT=OSh- 


COW wrt rm 


ooocococs 
MOawnoagcd 
BO wy wh wud ep 


eooeoeoeso 
oeouoreowoo 
BROOM Tt 


Balance of Virnsottari Dasa— continued 


EMOMoORKN 
IM TT TOI 


Moon In Cancer 


Scorplo, Pisces 


ES 

£C 

&S 

E< 

Se 

3s 

sa 

yw 

e5 

Se lECounoe 
FAalaraomcae 
Eo 

Ss 

gt 

AS 

fy woocodce 
Gs 
<e|zEOwooce 
Ba 

7) 

g & 

a 


ounwy7oona 
OeONATOANE 


Oww ter Toon 


eoocoocecoes 
Omenunyonga 
NAN eww eK OO 


gooooeecos 
ooevoove os 
SaAangnr oo 


qa cranwaoan 
TORN TONN 


SA=-OooaN 


eocoocoeoqooc¢ 
eevucwoowoes 
WwW tT TN Ne 


nT rTM MNNN 


Qrooneroo 
=n =—-=Aa 
AwtToOhRAATONM 


ONOOnonrGCOUOM 


ooocenasece 


oeoaqcetrern— 
“COMM WM OM 


Proportional Parts For Dasa of Planets 
(To be subtracted from the balance of dasa for increase by minutes 


of the longttude of moon) 


&s 
on 
E-noempnones 


or of 
non an anne 


Peo 
u 
we fh 
== Eggo ame KANNAN 
at me ot moO — 
Eee tke tdont gaa 
=a 
ac Foooa--anaarin 
hi ee eee ee 
© N be 
JE oRE oO Rane 
Bw 
Sx Eoodo<—-eanog 
7 -an “ 
EE ene gar eintaas 
ge 
= Boq9-—-—-ANA TH 
- iS 
BE UnMgs eH NAA Ae 
== Eqooo0ceo6A=nN 
=~ T0 ity 
gE wna=2Aaae=2wo 
ZS Esso0097 ana 
- =TOANTh—T 
Cr UNM RK RSNA 
34 
ME Eoococcocco== 
oo Oh. Or Ae 
mae cug laa 
co 
2M Eooonenannnde 
— ise] ins | by 
zp Boona Sadao an 
thal ty -1-¥-1-1-1-1-1-e ets) 
= 


Enamrnoraoeee 


Vhnsottari Dasa and Bhukti 


Mars—7 yrs. 


3 


ew 
~-OOOn G+ DOOA 


1 
=" 

I | 
ho = b> 


WR RR KK Oe 


Juplter 
Satum 
Mercury 
Ketu 
Venus 
Sun 
Moon 


wn 
OCOAQHNDVACN 


—_ 


~oo0000000% 
O-voLan 
CUcsoUmLUaL 


| low 

NADL LWN-O 
PETS 

ooePNekald 


3 

ir 
il3 

a 


bt 


ZAaAaoe-—w 

_— —_ 

flonase ano-we | 

OROONNAGE 
Re 


OF eoOW- NG 


4 
a 
6 
q 
0 
a] 


— 


Omam-—-OoOmO 


moPozaatk 


A) 
— 


BMAakhe Qwania 


llaoa 
Ilo 
ONE TONSDPA 

hPO-OnNONWND 
ler saon-oae 

i] 

SASTOORNE 
DON—-OVwssw 
SAGwPOVAUY 


=aso= 

_— bh 
o=—-=—R=—a 
| 


Juplter 
Satum 


He Deh wE 
rs) 

NORENCAS 
NIG) Se BP RD 


NOW RONDBNOL 


El aaa 

ra 

loo 
HNN We RR 
eead00o0es 


DELINEATION OF DASA BHUKTIS— 22: 
THE PLANETARY PERIODS 


Generally, if one is proficient in delineating the natal horoscope, 
there will be little difficulty in accurately predicting the results of dasas 
and bhuktis. However, as with all astrological work, a complete and tho- 
rough analysis of the planets involved is necessary. Also, there are certain 
specific considerations relevant only to the dasa system. Below are given 
all aspects one should cover before making predictions of the periods. 


5 Note which houses the current dasa planet rules to ascertain 
whether it is a benefic or malefic influence for that particular ascendant. 
(See page 49 for rulership details.) 


5, Check which houses the planet rules and occupies, as the significa- 
tions of such houses will be the key to the type of events to expect. Do the 
same for the bhukti planet. 


S See whether the dasa planet is in the sign of a friend or an enemy, 
and judge accordingly. Do the same for the bhukti planet. 


S Note all aspects to the dasa or bhukti planet. The closer the degree of 
the aspect, the more powerful the effect, but do not ignore aspects with 
wide orbs of 20-29 degrees, etc. 


% Do not forget to include the consideration for retrograde planets. Ret- 
rograde benefics are weakened, while malefics in such a state lose 
much of their malevolence. 


> Ifthe 2 planets involved in the dasa bhuktiare friends, the results are 
more favorable. If enemies, they are more harmful. 


> Ifeither the dasa or bhukti planet is 6, 8, or 12 houses from the other, 
a certain number of negative effects must be expected. 


S Ifthe dasa or bhukti planet is 5 or 9 houses away from the other, 
some beneficial results are likely. 


S If the dasa planet is conjunct with or opposite the bhukti planet in a 
tight degree orb, extraordinarily intense results will occur. 


>»  Dasas are often more effective after one has passed childhood and 
there is more influence in the world. 


326 * Dasas generally bring major life changes, and therefore a person usu- 
ally experiences powerful effects several months before the exact date of 
the dasa. However, there are also noticeable occurrences within a few 
days of the commencement of the period or subperiod. 


S It is important to balance the disposition of the planets involved in a 
dasa bhukti with the overall horoscope possibilities. For example, great 
wealth should not be expected during a dasa bhukti if the natal horo- 
scope does not indicate such possibilities. 


S During the dasa or bhukti of an exceptionally well disposed planet 
nearly any type of benefit is possible. For instance, if Mars is exalted and 
extremely well aspected, the person may obtain a wife even though Mars 
may have absoluteley no relation to the 7th house. Or the person may 
get a car or house though there is no involvement with 4th house affairs. 
Similarly, when the planet under consideration is terribly afflicted, the 
person may have problems in nearly all avenues of life during that period. 


> During the dasa bhukti of 2 planets which exchange signs, special 
results are likely. For example, if the Sun is in Capricorn and Saturn is in 
Leo, then during a Sun-Saturn period (or Saturn-Sun), excellent effects 
may be experienced relating to the houses and planets involved. The same 
will be true for planets forming any kind of extraordinary planetary 
union, especially a raja-yoga. 


S In a dasa bhukti, it is the bhukti planet which colors the dasa planet. 
For example, if the Moon and Mars are closely conjunct, then in a Moon- 
Mars period violence, accidents, and other such occurrences may be 
likely. In a Mars-Moon period, there are likely to be beneficial results 
according to the houses Mars rules, since it is greatly enhanced by the 
vibrations of the Moon. 


% The 1st bhukti in a dasa does not generally give full results. For 
example, if a dasa portends fame due mainly to the dasa planet, good 
results may begin from the onset of the dasa, but the intensity of results 
expected are likely to occur after the 1st bhukti has run its course. 


> When delineating dasas it is good to consider which house a planet 
occupies from both house systems. Although the ancient system (using 
signs as houses) seems to give best results, the modern technique, 
whereby a house extends 15 degrees on both sides of the ascendant degree, 
also often proves reliable in revealing the effects of a dasa or bhukti. 


% Hindu scriptures rule that if the ascendant is stronger than the Moon, 
then the dasa at birth should be determined by the ascendant degree 
rather than that of the Moon. In practice, though, nearly all astrologers 


simply use the Moon position for this purpose. This information is 227 
included here for those who wish to experiment, even though the author 
has had absolutely no success with the ascendant method. 


Although Hindu scriptures describe numerous specific effects to be 
reaped during the dasa of each particular planet, in fact this information 
is the most general to be considered. The most explicit results are caused 
by the houses a planet rules and occupies. Therefore only minimal 
emphasis should be placed on the nature of the planet involved. There is 
no doubt that a malefic such as Mars or Saturn, when powerful and well 
disposed, will give excellent benefits, whereas Venus or Jupiter in bad 
condition can cause untold misery. What is given below are the typical 
sort of events which may be expected in different dasas. Whether the 
effects are positive or negative of course depends upon the condition of 
each specific planet. 


SUN 


The 6-year Sun dasa will bring events relating to popularity, career 
advancement, authority positions, influence and power, fame, recognition 
from elders and authority figures, and dealings with the government. 
One's father may come prominently into focus, and if the Sun is well dis- 
posed the father's life will improve. If afflicted, the opposite occurs. 
According to Hindu scriptures, the person may at this time take to the 
chanting of mantras and wandering in jungle regions. If the Sun is weak 
and marred, there may be troubles with eyesight or the heart. 


MOON 


Because the Moon is such a personal influence, this 10-year dasa 
is generally an extremely significant period in the person's life. Therefore 
it will have to do with the person's physical being, recognition from oth- 
ers, fulfilling one's greatest desires, and the most intimately connected 
facets of life, whatever they may be for the individual. All of the Moon's 
significations of course come into play, so one may expect dealings with 
females and the mother, whose life will also be affected for better or worse, 
depending on the Moon's disposition. These years will be decidedly emo- 
tional, with more romance, sensitivity, and moodiness. This is an excellent 
time for working in the public eye and gaining a widespread reputation, if 
the Moon is well disposed. In such cases it is also a common time for 
marriage and great happiness. If the Moon is afflicted, this will be a very 
difficult period as far as mental peace and general well-being are con- 
cerned. The person would be susceptible to slander, humiliation, accusations, 
personal downfall, and victimization by others. Physical ailments might 
involve the stomach, breast, or brain. 


728 


MARS 


During the 7-year Mars period, one generally has great energy and 
motivation for whatever endeavors are indicated. Thus there may be rapid 
advancement and success. It is also a common time for giving birth to 
sons, acquiring property, and associations with siblings. There may be 
greater sexual passions and the possibility of surgery. Mars periods favor 
mechanical or technical jobs as well as affiliations with military and the 
police force. If the planet is afflicted, there is a danger of accidents, vio- 
lence, cuts, burns, etc. There might also be arguments, a rash temper, and 
illnesses of the blood, bone marrow, or muscular system. 


RAHU 


This period generally brings on a time of strong desires relating to 
Rahu's house placement and the person's nature in general. It is a long 
dasa-18 years—and thus is an indication of deep and intense expe- 
rience. In general, Rahu usually causes powerful misery during the 1st 
and last 2 or 3 years of its dasa. The nature of the results may vary tre- 
mendously. In some cases the onset of the period brings the death or 
separation of a loved one, while for others there may be scandal or per- 
sonal downfall. But such events are difficult to pinpoint beforehand with 
any certainty. 


If there are aspects from benefics, or if Rahu is well placed, there 
may be great worldly success and benefits. The person could be raised to a 
very high position of authority. This may also occur if Rahu occupies a 
kendra or trikona and is aspected by the lord of any kendra or trikona. If 
Mars, Saturn, or the lord of the 12th house aspects Rahu, the period may 
give more than its usual share of difficulties. 


Ancient Hindu sages have declared that in a Rahu dasa one may 
expect financial losses, danger from snakes or poison, many illnesses, a 
troubled mind, humiliation, and failure. However, in the 3rd, 6th, 10th, or 
11th houses, where malefics are welcomed, and in either of Mercury's 
signs, excellent results will be reaped. Because Rahu is not an actual 
planet and therefore does not signify a directed intelligence, the period is 
more a time of applying already developed abilities rather than learning 
new talents. Hindu scriptures also maintain that even when Rahu is well 
disposed, the benefits gained during the period will all be lost during the 
close of the dasa. As Rahu represents a demon bent on sense gratifica- 
tion, its dasa often causes even spiritual seekers to eat non-vegetarian 
food. 

JUPITER 


Unless Jupiter is afflicted, this 16-year dasa brings a period of 
prosperity, happiness, and honor. There will be accomplishment and the 


fulfillment of one's desires. It is also generally a time of spiritual growth 22 
and higher learning. As Jupiter rules children, this is a common time for 
giving birth. If children are older, they will come more directly into the life, 
and the eldest child may be affected for better or worse, depending on the 
condition of the planet. As a benefic, Jupiter often gives many different 
kinds of opportunities, and marriage is therefore common in this period. 
Also, one's standard of living may improve, and the person will enjoy 
greater luxuries and comforts. Acquisition of finer cars is possible, as is 
the opportunity to acquire property. In a spiritual country such as India, 
this period greatly favors associations with Gurus and religious figures. 
There would also be bathing in the sacred Ganges River and many holy 
pilgrimages. Long-distance travel is favored in any case. If Jupiter is 
afflicted, all kinds of miseries are possible, as one's luck is devastated and 
nearly all undertakings are subject to failure. There would also be ail- 
ments involving allergies and the liver. 


SATURN 


The Saturn dasa lasts 19 years and is characterized by sustained 
hard work in one's career. Unless afflicted, this period may bring honor 
and advancement based upon one's present and past efforts. It is a time 
of great discipline and of establishing a solid base for one's career. The 
person may at this time build whatever tangible form and structure ele- 
ments are necessary for the years to come. Saturn dasa may also give 
gains in wealth, authority, and power. There may be money from inheri- 
tances or from involvement in real estate. As a malefic, Saturn gives excel- 
lent results in the upachaya houses (the 3rd, 6th, 10th & 1 1 th), and 
when well aspected or well placed by sign. 


If Saturn is afflicted, this dasa will bring restrictions, delays, pov- 
erty, hardship, illnesses, and injuries. There may also be professional 
downfalls, loss of honor, and danger from rheumatism or paralysis. 


MERCURY 


During the 17-year Mercury dasa, one will experience a great 
emphasis on learning, writing, speaking, and all intellectual endeavors. 
The person will delve deeply into the mind and appreciate continuous 
psychological insights. Mercury is a planet of trade and commerce, and 
therefore it is a common time of beginning business ventures. There may 
also be involvement in radio, television, accounting, publishing, and other 
such Mercurial activities. If Mercury is unaspected by the Sun or any 
other malefic, then as a benefic it promises happiness, prosperity, and 
other favorable effects. There will be excellent results regarding the acqui- 
sition of all kinds of knowledge. For this reason, this dasa confers suc- 
cessful associations with Gurus and spiritual teachers. In India, a person 
entering this period is very likely to learn new mantras or yoga tech- 


niques. For the Westerner, there is a strong chance of returning to college 
or night school. 


If Mercury is afflicted, there will be mental troubles, depression, or 
instability. There might also be nervous exhaustion, as Mercury rules the 
nervous system. Merchants would be subject to business losses commen- 
surate with the degree of planetary affliction. 


KETU 


Out of all the plantary periods, that of Ketu is perhaps the most 
difficult to accurately predict. Ancient Hindu scriptures describe all sorts 
of miseries, such as poverty, sorrow, humiliation, slanders, poisoning, 
strange illnesses, etc. In actuality, this 7-year dasa is apt to produce some 
difficulties regarding the significations of Ketu's house placement. Natu- 
rally, such negative results are reversed if Ketu occupies either the 3rd, 
6th, 10th, or 11th house—the bhavas where malefics are welcomed. 


As Ketu is otherworldly, it does not at all favor material benefits, 
but is an influence of asceticism and non-attachment. Like Rahu, if this 
shadowy planet is aspected by Mercury, Venus, or Jupiter, good effects 
will be reaped during its period. If Ketu occupies a kendra or trikona and 
is aspected by a lord of a kendra or trikona, then good effects again may 
be expected. In the horoscope of a spiritual seeker, the dasa of Ketu will 
give excellent spiritual, mystical, or psychic experiences. 


VENUS 


The 20-year Venus dasa favors enjoyment of luxuries, comforts, 
romance, and married life. When unafflicted, Venus gives abundant wealth, 
happiness, and pleasant associations. There may also be involvement in 
artistic endeavors. This is a highly beneficial period for actors, musicians, 
singers, and dancers. One's business activities may turn to dealings with 
jewelry, sweets, entertainment, beauty salons, etc. In general, a person's 
attention during Venus dasa is mainly on marriage and affairs of the 
heart. If Venus is ill-disposed, such activities will bring disappointment, 
sorrow, and grief. Happiness is destroyed, and money matters would also 
suffer. IllInesses might involve the reproductive system or kidneys. 


The descriptions given above for dasas are similarly applicable for 
bhuktis. It must be understood that the dasa result is strongest, while the 
bhukti, which has a powerful effect, is secondary in its influence. As has 
already been mentioned, the most specific consideration in delineating 
dasa bhuktis are the houses ruled and occupied by the planets involved, as 
well as planetary aspects. It is unnecessary to analyze all the possible com- 
binations separately at this point, since the essential meanings have been 
dealt with in the section titled "Planets in the Houses." Readers are caution- 


ed to give at least as much if not more weight to the analysis of house 


rulerships detailed in the beginning pages of each "Planets in the Houses" 
section. 


A brief summary of possibilities for dasa bhukti results regarding 
the houses a planet rules or occupies may be helpful. 


THE DASA OR BHUKTI OF A PLANET RULING OR OCCUPYING THE: 


1ST HOUSE 

Relates to health, physical appearance, fame and honor, personal 

desires & life purpose, promotions or downfalls, humiliation, possibility of 

being victimized, happiness, and ailments involving the head. The lord of 
the 1st house always benefits the house it occupies. 


2ND HOUSE 

Involves finances, schooling & educational affairs, domestic happi- 

ness, family life, speech & lecturing, ailments involving the face, mouth, 
teeth, and right eye. 


3RD HOUSE 

Is connected to one's everyday desires, initiative and motivation, 

brothers & sisters (except the eldest), brave deeds or heroic acts, adven- 

tures, any of the fine arts, literary accomplishments, detail work, short 
journeys, hearing, and ailments of the hands or right ear. 


4th HOUSE 


Relates to the mother, houses, cars, property, changing of residence 
or cities, educational degree, and illnesses of the heart. 


Sth HOUSE 
Any dasa or bhukti connected to this trikona gives fortunate results 
unless the planet is afflicted. Affairs relate to children, investments, sudden 
wealth, spiritual practices, sports, gambling, painting or craft-type arts, 
mental pursuits, benefits from wealthy persons or philanthropists, and 
promotions to rulership or authority positions. Fifth-house periods pro- 
duce effects destined to occur as a result of past-life efforts. The 5th lord 
enhances any house it occupies. 


6th HOUSE 

Dasas or bhuktis connected to this dusthana are generally difficult 

and problematic. Events involve one's health, diet, daily job, enemies and 

jealous foes, thefts, subordinates & servants, cousins, maternal uncle, med- 

ical profession, litigations, and catering or restaurant work. The lord of the 
6th house causes destruction to the house it occupies. 


7th HOUSE 
Relates to married life, relationships, all partnerships, and 
residence in foreign countries. 


8th HOUSE 

Any dasa or bhukti connected to this dusthana causes problems 

and difficulties. Circumstances involve joint finances, deaths, insurance 

benefits, illnesses, thefts, and accidents. Ailments are connected to the 

reproductive system and chronic illnesses. The 8th lord destroys the signi- 
fications of the house it occupies. 


9th HOUSE 

Any dasa or bhukti connected to this trikona gives fortunate results 

unless the planets involved are afflicted. Affairs in focus are the father, luck, 

long journeys, religion & philosophy, spiritual practices, acquisition of a 

Guru, higher learning, and all-around good fortune. The 9th lord promotes 
benefits to the house it occupies. 


10th HOUSE 

Dasas or bhuktis of this most powerful kendra generally give good 

effects. During this period, events surround professional success, career 

changes, promotions or downfalls, fame, respect & honor, powerful posi- 

tions, holy pilgrimages, dealings with eminent persons or authority figures, 
and activities benefiting society. 


lith HOUSE 

Relates to sudden wealth, money through new means, unexpected 

opportunities, new ventures, fulfillment of major goals, eldest sibling, and 
paternal uncle. Ailments may involve the legs or ankles. 


12th HOUSE 

Dasas or bhuktis connected to this dusthana mostly produce prob- 

lems, struggles, and sorrows. Events revolve around expenses, debts, thefts, 
illnesses, hospitals, prisons, and travels to remote foreign countries. For 
certain persons there will be experiences of asceticism, spiritual life, self- 
realization, and enlightenment. The 12th lord ruins the house it occupies. 


TRANSITS—PREDICTING MARRIAGE, PREGNANCY, 
HOMES & CARS, ETC. 


Transits are the current daily planetary positions, which have their 
effect on the fixed natal birthchart. In Hindu astrology these are used in a 
more general way than in the Western system, for they are used by the 
Hindus to reveal trends often of a year or two in a person's life. Although 
not all Hindu astrologers use them, transits color or modify what has 
already been delineated through the main source of prediction—the dasa 
system. However, if the current transits are powerful enough, they can 
give quite specific and predictable results. And for predicting marriage 
and childbirth, transits are far more reliable than dasas and bhuktis. 


The reason that transits are more general in the Hindu system is 
that the exact degree of the transiting planet is ignored and only its 
house or sign position used. In other words, the planet influences the 
entire 30 degrees of any sign it affects. Also, transits do not usually over- 
ride the indications that have been revealed by the dasa bhuktis, except 
in rare cases where an "all-encompassing" transit exists. The meaning of 
this statement will be understood further on as the method of transits is 
explained. 


The 1st step in this practice is to note the house a planet is transit- 
ing or passing through. If Jupiter is the planet, then its beneficial influ- 
ence will affect the affairs of the particular house for approximately one 
year before moving on. Next, note the houses Jupiter will aspect from the 
house it is transiting. Since Jupiter always aspects the 5th, 7th, and 9th 
from itself, those houses and their significations will also flourish. And so 
will any planets in those houses and the houses they rule, since they are 
also being aspected by Jupiter. After all of these transiting effects have 
been accounted for, it is necessary to go through the same process again, 
only this time considering the position of the Moon as the 1st house. 
Although this may seem complicated, the results are worth the effort, for 
when a house position from both the Moon and the ascendant are simi- 
larly aspected by transits, an astrologer may feel quite confident in mak- 
ing an accurate prediction. Also, it should be mentioned that Hindu scrip- 
tures are emphatic about counting transits from the Moon's position. 


When employing transits, most astrologers use Jupiter, Saturn, and 
the nodes more than any other planets, since their transits are longer- 
lasting than the others. The nodes of course are a negative influence, but 
they only affect the houses they occupy, as they do not cast any aspects. 


2 


4 Saturn, which aspects the 3rd, 7th, and 10th, will often aspect some of 
the same planets or houses as Jupiter and thereby reduce or nullify those 
beneficial effects. The final judgement usually then comes down to bal- 
ancing the percentages of positive and negative aspects. The navamsa is 
not to be considered when delineating transits. 


According to the Hindu scriptures, each planet is most effective 
during a certain period of its transit, the Sun and Mars in the 
beginning of a house, Venus and Jupiter in the middle, and the Moon and 
Saturn at the end. Mercury is powerful throughout. 


Below is a horoscope which has given predictable results based on 
transits. In 1983 the woman concerned gave birth to a child, as will be 
seen from the 5th house. In 1984 she was given a car and her first home 
through the generosity of in-laws. The 4th house will be the focus for that 
year. Transiting Jupiter, Saturn, and the nodes are placed outside the 
houses they were passing through. 


83 


: Die © 10° 


2) 26 


om 


CHILDBIRTH (1983 ) 


ew 


‘o 7 2 


POSITIVE JUPITER ASPECTS TO THE 5TH HOUSE 


>) Transiting Jupiter conjuncted Saturn, the ruler of the 5th. 
Ss Transiting Jupiter aspected the sign Cancer, the 5th house from 
the Moon. 

Ss Transiting Jupiter aspected the Moon, the ruler of the 5th house 


from the Moon. 


NEGATIVE SATURN ASPECTS TO THE STH 


S Transiting Saturn aspected the sign Cancer, the 5th house from the 
Moon. 


NOTE—In the case of childbirths, positive transits and aspects to the 5th generally 
indicate the actual birth, not the pregnancy. 


OBTAINING A CAR AND HOME (1984) 
POSITIVE JUPITER ASPECTS TO THE 4TH HOUSE 


Ss Jupiter transited the 4th house. 

Transiting Jupiter aspected natal Jupiter, the ruler of the 4th 
house. 
Ss Transiting Jupiter aspected the sign of Gemini, the 4th house 
from the Moon. 
S Transiting Jupiter aspected Mercury, the ruler of the 4th house 


from the Moon and the karaka of the 4th. 
NEGATIVE SATURN ASPECTS 


S Transiting Saturn aspected the 4th house. 
S Transiting Saturn aspected Mercury, the ruler of the 4th house 
from the Moon and the karaka of the 4th. 


When attempting to predict marriage, note all transits to the 7th 
house, 7th ruler, 7th house from the Moon, and that house ruler. If those 
significators are well aspected in transit without interference by any 
major malefic, then marriage is likely. If Venus (the karaka of the 7th) is 
also well transited, the outlook is brighter still. 


The method of transits which has been shown is basic, practical, 
and effective. This is mentioned because Hindu scriptures give an elabo- 
rate and extremely complicated procedure regarding transits. In the sys- 
tem, each planet has certain houses where its transits produce strong 
effects and others where it has little or no effect. The determination of the 
good or bad houses for each transit is not at all easy and mostly unused 
by practicing astrologers. The technique or systein is called ashtaka 
varga and is described on page 325. However, only the basics of the 
method are given because the system in its entirety is unduly tedious and 
time-consuming. As it is, 64 charts have to be drawn and procedures fol- 
lowed just for the essential calculations. 


As may be gathered, although these transits give fairly accurate 


predictions of important matters, they do so in the way of "ball-park" pre- 
dictions, for, the general effects last during the entire transit and there is 
almost no way to know even the exact month of a predicted occurrence. 
For example, one may have very strong positive transits and aspects to 
the 7th house for a year, but a relationship may not present itself until 
the last month or two of the transit. However, as long as all the variables 
are considered, transits will give good results and are quite useful. 


MATURITY OF PLANETS—WHEN PLANETS GIVE THEIR 2 


FULL EFFECTS 

YEAR IN WHICH Jupiter 16th year 
PLANETS GIVE THEIR The Sun 22nd year 
FULL EFFECT The Moon 24th year 

Venus 25th year 

Mars 28th year 

Mercury 32nd year 

Saturn 36th year 

Rahu 42nd year 

Ketu 48th year 


There is an important predictive feature which comes from ancient 
scriptures yet is rarely mentioned in modern texts. This is the matter of 
the maturity of planets. The essential meaning is that after a prescribed 
number of years, each planet has developed to its utmost and is then 
capable of rendering its fullest effects. This is a fundamental element of 
Hindu astrology which must not be ignored. 


During the year of maturity, the results of the particular planet will 
be reaped. The effects of the planet extend not only to its own intrinsic 
significations but also to the houses it rules. For example, Mercury gives 
its full effects in the 32nd year, meaning between the age of 31 and 32. At 
that time a person's intellectual functions whether beneficial or detri- 
mental, will come squarely into focus. And the manner in which the mind 
and other mercurial affairs can operate throughout the life is then estab- 
lished. If in this case Mercury rules the 10th house, then it is after the age 
of 32 that the person can appreciate the full possibilities of his career. 
Although the person may have already achieved great career success in 
younger years, it is at this point that a stabilizing effect or certainty of 
purpose may be realized. Therefore a person's major dreams in any area of 
life may not completely unfold until the planet governing such significa- 
tions reaches its maturity. 


Perhaps the greatest reason not to lose sight of this technique is 
that the effects of a planet during the year it matures are often quite 
intense and observable. These kinds of recognizable results occur when- 
ever the planet in question is extremely well or poorly disposed. Also, the 
events and circumstances indicated through this predictive method will 
most definitely occur, regardless of conflicting indications by transits 


dasa bhuktis. Therefore to ignore this matter opens an astrologer up to a 
great pitfall in certain horoscopes. 


It cannot be overstated, however, that a thorough analysis of each 
planet is necessary to make an accurate assessment. Hence, the same 
examination that goes into natal work must also be done here. It is espe- 
cially important to note whether the planet rules good or bad houses, for a 
yogakaraka or raja-yogakaraka will give excellent results during its 
prescribed year. For this reason, one of the easiest ways to test the efficacy 
of this system is to simply question several persons about the year that 
the yogakaraka for their ascendant reached its maturity. In most cases 
that will have been an extremely positive and special time unless the 
planet is afflicted. Aspects, as well as sign and house placements, are of 
course also crucial. All in all, the use of this technique is a great advan- 
tage and often provides the indications for events which otherwise are 
completely nonexistent. 


YOGAS—PLANETARY UNIONS 23: 


Yogas are planetary unions or combinations which reveal specific 
conditions in a person's life. They have been written about by the ancient 
sages and function above and beyond the basic horoscope indications. 
Many yogas are logical, while others are not at all so. For example, 
Lakshmi yoga, a union conferring wealth, is caused if the 2nd, 6th, 8th, 
and 12th houses are all occupied by planets. Though such an effect seems 
to lack reason, the delineation has been found to be accurate. There are 
countless numbers of books containing such yogas, and nearly all classic 
works have a large section on them, presenting anywhere from a few 
hundred to a few thousand. It is, incidentally, these yogas which, because 
they are to be memorized, make it common for the greatest Hindu astrol- 
ogers to have been born with a powerfully well disposed Moon (memory) 
and 2nd house (knowledge). It is also the prospect of memorizing the 
yogas which has scared so many Westerners away from the Hindu system 
so quickly. But it should be clear from the delineations of famous horo- 
scopes given in this book that one may still obtain good results by simply 
following the general principles of horoscope interpretation. 


There is little point in printing thousands of yogas here, since 
many books on the subject are already available Therefore only a few very 
simple yogas will be listed, and these simply for the purpose of gaining 
familiarity with the method. The descriptions of yoga results are quite 
specific in the scriptural writings; however if these descriptions are taken/ 
too literally, a severe credibility gap is often created. Many classic texts 
contain, for instance, hundreds of rajayogas said to make a person a king 
or nationwide ruler. In reality, a person may possess such a yoga and be 
quite successful but achieve nowhere near the status mentioned. There- 
fore the statements given for the results of the following yogas are general 
and merely represent the essence of meaning. 

1. Buddhathi yoga. Mercury conjunct with the Sun, Mercury being in 
higher longitude and past the point of combustion (i.e., more than 8 
degrees away from the Sun). Gives good powers of intellect. 

2. Kala Salim yoga.. All planets are posited between Rahu and Ketu. 
Gives a difficult life with misery and hardship. 

3. Lakshmi yoga. Moon conjunct with Mars, with the Moon in higher 
longitude. Gives good wealth. 

4. Lakshmi yoga. Planets occupying all 4 of the following houses: the 
2nd, 6th, 8th, and 12th. Gives good wealth. 


5. Gajekesari yoga. Jupiter posited in a kendra from the Moon (i.e., 
angular position). Gives good fortune, happiness, education, and all- 
around benefits. 

6. Sakata yoga. Moon in the 6th, 8th, or 12th house from Jupiter. 
Causes bad fortune, poverty, misery, etc. 

7. Adhi yoga. Benefic planets occupy all dusthanas (the 6th, 8th, and 
12th houses) from the Moon. Gives good character, happiness, luxur- 
ies, wealth, etc. 

8. Kemadruma yoga. Occurs if there are no planets in the house 
preceding or following the Moon (do not include the Sun in this yoga). 
Causes mental suffering, hardships, misery, etc. 


9, Sunapha yoga. At least 1 planet occupies the 2nd house from the 
Moon. Good for wealth, happiness, reputation, etc. 

10. Anapha yoga. At least 1 planet in the 12th house from the 
Moon. Gives same results as Sunapha yoga. 

11. Dura Dura yoga. Planets in both the 2nd and 12th from the Moon. Gives 
good wealth, status, happiness, honors, etc. Better than the above 2 yogas. 

12. Vipreet yoga. Malefic planets in bad houses (the 6th, 8th & 12th) cause 

good effects. 


13. Neechabhanga yoga (literally, cancellation of neecha). When a planet 
is in its fallen sign, the conditions listed below cause neechabhanga 
yoga. This union is also said to promote prosperity and wealth, etc. 
However, regarding the supposed cancellation of detriment, in practice 
the usual harm of the neecha placement is still in effect. The actual 
significance of neechabhanga is that there may be some good results 
along with the misery caused by the fallen planet. 


Neechabhanga yoga occurs if any of the following conditions 
exist: 


> An exalted planet occupies the same house as the neecha planet. 
>) The ruler of the house holding the neecha planet is exalted. 
The ruler of the house holding the neecha planet is in a 
kendra from the ascendant or the Moon. 
The planet which would be exalted in the sign holding the fallen 
planet is in a kendra from the ascendant or the Moon. 


MISCELLANEOUS NOTES 


1. Hindu scriptures declare the Moon in Aries to be a beneficial placement. 
This is odd, since the Moon is fallen in Scorpio, the other sign ruled by Mars. 
The reasoning may be that the Moon in Aries is very close to its highest 
exaltation point of 3 degrees Taurus. 

2. Although expenses are ruled by the 12th house, a person may spend con- 
stantly because of a very powerful or significant 3rd house. The 3rd rules 
desires. 


3. Hindu scriptures state that Venus conjunct with Mars in any kendra makes 
one a leader of his "family, clan, or village". 

4. Persons with Cancer or Leo ascendants are more likely to marry older 
partners, because Saturn will be ruling the 7th house. 

5. Persons with a Sagittarius or Gemini ascendant are more likely to marry 
younger partners, since the 7th house will be ruled by Mercury. 


6. Several retrograde planets in a horoscope (not including Uranus, Neptune, 
and Pluto) indicate a person of a critical nature or a tendency towards 
negative thinking or negative responses. 

7. Venus conjunct with Saturn gives talent or a career in art. Saturn in the 
12th from Venus (i.e., the house preceding Venus) gives the same results. 

8. Venus and Jupiter are spoiled when conjunct with Rahu. But since Rahu 
will be enhanced, worldly benefits are likely. 

9. Rahu in any kendra aspected by the lord of a kendra causes rajayoga. 

Worldly benefits are likely. 
10. The 12th lord in the 3rd house gives enormous intuition. 


11. Ifthe ascendant lord conjoins the 12th lord (or is afflicted in other ways), 
and the 9th house (luck) is very weak, then the person is likely to be accused 
or charged in court cases. 

12.A Sun-Moon conjunction in any kendra gives good leadership ability. 

13. Saturn aspecting the ascendant (or its lord) or the Sun tends towards 
spiritual life. 

14. The Moon conjunct with Ketu gives psychic ability and tendencies towards 
spiritual life. It also gives a wavering mind. 

15. In Hindu mythology Mercury is the son of the Moon. Both planets are mental 
influences, and therefore whenever they aspect each other in any way an 
extreme intellectual nature is conferred. 


16. Saturn is the son of the Sun. If these 2 planets aspect each other, the 
qualities of integrity, responsibility, humility, and spirituality are 
pronounced. 

17. If the llth lord is retrograde, opportunities are lost. 

18. If 2 marakas (lords of the 2nd & 7th) occupy the same house, the house is 
spoiled. 

19. Venus as lord of the 2nd and 7th (i.e. the ascendant is Aries) loses its evil 
maraka status. 

20. If Mars and Saturn aspect each other, the person excels in any technical 
field. 


21. Mercury in a sign of Mars, or Mars in a sign of Mercury, is said to be good for 
intelligence. 

22. Venus in a sign of Mars is said to give a powerful sexual nature. The same 
occurs if Mars occupies a sign of Venus. 

23. The Sun conjunct with Mars indicates danger from fires. This is known as 
ungar yoga. 


242 24. If the lord of the 12th house occupies the 4th, the person will rent out part of 
his home. 
25. Venus aspected by Jupiter indicates excellent research ability. It also gives 
strong morals in married life. 


26. Jupiter aspected by Saturn indicates one who is a perpetual student. 

27. The lord of the 6th house in the ascendant indicates that the person is born 
to a"common" family. 

28. Rahu in any kendra is said to cause sudden major changes throughout 
one's life. 

29. The Sun conjunct with Rahu causes ego problems or spoils the confidence. 
Others may have great difficulty understanding the person. 

30. Venus conjunct with Rahu or Ketu tends towards sexual diseases or a weak 
reproductive system. 


31. Gandanta is an evil condition occurring when the Moon or ascendant is in 
the last 2 degrees of a water sign. In India, where many children die, this is a 
dreaded influence. 

32. Jupiter conjunct with Ketu is good for spiritual achievements. 

33. The 9th lord conjunct with the lth lord, or the 9th lord in the llth house, 
gives excellent luck. 

34. The Sun or Rahu in the 10th gives baths in the sacred Ganges River, or 
visitations of holy places. 

35. Four or more planets in 1 sign often indicates an ascetic or spiritual 
aspirant. 


36. Ifthe lords of the 9th and 10th houses are conjunct, a rajayoga is formed, 
creating great fortune for the house holding the 2 planets. 

37. Rahu or Ketu transiting the ascendant and the 7th house cusp often causes 
either marriage or the severing of a relationship. 

38. Mercury close to the ascendant often indicates that the person is a twin. 

39. Venus conjunct with Mercury in an angle gives great wealth. It may also 

give a fickle or cunning wife. 
40. Venus in a kendra from the Moon creates an extreme sexual appetite. 
41. Venus and Mars aspecting each other gives a strong sexual nature. 


The following delineations are presented as a sample of how lordships 
function. Only a few are given since the essence of the work will be immediately 
understood. All that is necessary is to think through the meanings of planets 
and houses involved and then logically combine their influences. 


The lord of the 7th house conjunct with or aspected by: 


S% The Sun gives a powerful or domineering spouse. 
S The Moon gives an emotional and special spouse. Happy marriage. Chance 


numerous marriages. 
S, Mars gives a fiery, physical, or angry spouse. Married life is harmed. 
S$, Mercury gives a youthful and intellectual spouse. Chance of numerous 
matriages. 


SJupiter gives a spouse who is wealthy, beautiful, religious, or spiritual. 
Happy married life. 

¥Venus gives a spouse who is beautiful, artistic, or youthful. Happy 
marriage. 

SSaturn gives a spouse who is elderly, disciplined, or conservative. Mar- 
riage may be delayed or filled with hardship. 

SRahu or Ketu gives a married life which is spoiled. Possible divorce. 


The lord of the 10th house conjunct with or aspected by: 


‘Venus gives a career involving art. Successful career. 

S Mercury gives a career in business, communications, writing, etc. Suc- 
cessful career. 

S. Mars gives a career involving the military, police work, mechanics, engi- 
neering, or any technical field. 

S, Saturn gives a career involving manual labor, coal, carpentry, etc. Difficult 
career. 


§, The lord of 10th conjunct with or aspected by the lord of the 3rd indi- 
cates a possible career in one of the fine arts. 

S, The lord of the 10th conjunct with or aspected by the 7th lord indicates a 
possible career involving the marriage partner. 

> The lord of the 10th conjunct with or aspected by the lord of the 12th 


indicates professional difficulties and changes in career. 
S, The lord of the 2nd conjunct with the 5th, 9th, or 11th gives good wealth. 


§, The lord of the 1st conjunct with or aspected by the lord of 9th 
indicates a religious or spiritual person. 

§, The lord of the 1st conjunct with lord of the 2nd, Sth, 9th, or 11th gives 
great wealth. The same occurs if the ascendant lord exchanges signs 
with any of these lords. 

§, The lord of the 11th conjunct with or aspected by the lord of the 5th or 
9th indicates a wealthy or special eldest sibling. 

¥, The lord of the 5th conjunct with or aspected by the lord of the 9th 
gives a strong religious or devotional nature. 


HOROSCOPES OF FAMOUS PEOPLE 2: 


This section on horoscopes of famous people is considered the 
most important chapter because it applies all the principles in this 
book. It should be read carefully. There is nothing so simple as astrology 
when it works, and nothing so perplexing when it does not. Many of the 
delineated conditions which follow would have been mere child's play to 
predict beforehand. Others are complex enough that this astrologer 
would likely have been left scratching his head in bewilderment, cursing 
the day this mystical science presented itself. Also, although most of the 
delineations are simple, it should not be ignored that this work has been 
done in retrospect. But the work is in earnest, and if any indiscretions 
exist, it is hoped that the author may be forgiven. 


At the start of this book the prospect of analyzing celebrities’ lives 
was by far the most exciting feature. It is fortunate that this work was left 
for last, for, it was not obvious how difficult it might be to present this 
technical material to beginners in a way which is not extraordinarily 
tedious. Reading and comprehending technical information, such as the 
delineations which follow, is a slow process for most, and it requires a 
good deal of patience. There will be patience only if the desire to learn is 
strong. But it cannot be overstated that this section is crucial for the 
astrologer who wishes to learn this system and practice it regularly. Much 
of the reason Hindu astrology has never taken hold in the West is that it 
has only been presented in books. And difficult ones at that! In this next 
section I have tried to present the work in the same way that my teachers 
did for me. Hindu astrology will not likely be learned by simply studying 
all the different techniques. It is necessary to know how to put them 
together. This is the reason that the following section is of such impor- 
tance. It is as close as possible to having a teacher present. Therefore, 
after finishing this text, it will be good for those who are serious about 
the work to read the section over again from time to time. For there are so 
many variables and subtleties in Hindu astrology that it is quite easy to 
forget any number of essentials without an awareness that something is 
missing. 


The charts which have been analyzed were chosen because they are 
mostly contemporary and known to all. The first 4 or 5 have been more 
elaborated upon, while the rest are included because they easily indicate 1 
or 2 rather obvious life conditions. It is assumed that by this time the 
reader has some working knowledge of the signification of the houses and 


16 planets. Also, it may be mentioned that relatively little emphasis has been 
placed on specific details gained from planets in houses. The basic mean- 
ings of course are applied, but subtleties have been ignored for purely 
practical reasons. Concerning the common use of Hindu terms, the reader 
may wish to consult the glossary rather than wading through a whole 
section of explanation if any terms or techniques have been forgotten. 


The calculations for the horoscopes and dasa bhuktis have been 
taken from a computer program which lists the longitudes of the mean 
(approximate) nodes for Rahu and Ketu. However, in certain cases the 
true node would cause a planet to occupy a different house in the 
navamsa. Whenever this has occurred, it is the true node which has been 
employed, and this is acknowledged in the birth data. Also, a sample hor- 
oscope page has been included which contains crucial information to be 
considered whenever attempting to delineate a birthchart. This should be 
referred to throughout the reading of the chapter. 


Finally, it is important to know that the horoscopes presented are 
generally quite special, which is of course why these people are famous. 
When analyzing charts on a daily basis, one may be surprised at the 
mediocrity of many of them. This is especially significant when attempt- 
ing to predict the results of the dasa bhuktis, because if the planets 
involved are not either intensely well or poorly disposed, there may be 
little one can predict in terms of actual occurrences. If the astrologer is to 
be honest, there will be many occasions when it will be necessary to 
inform clients that not much of any consequence (at least in the outer 
world) is likely to occur for the next few years. Regarding the other ele- 
ments of prediction—transits and the maturity of planets—little mention 
has been made of them in this section, but they are both important ele- 
ments and not to be ignored when practicing Hindu astrology. 


00-20° 
00-05? 


00-20° 


BHUKTI 
MO. DAY YR. 
MOO!LA TRIKONA 


&t__00-20° 


NEECHA 


16-20° 


RIE 
[a 


g 
3 
: 
: 
ie: 


ya 
05" VI Ose = 


DASA 
MO. DAY YR. 


COMBINATIONS 
FORMING 


WAD 


: 


2] 
a 
o) 
a 
ae 
2 ro 
ea 


FOR EACH ASCENDANT 


HY VIRTUE OF RULERSHIP 


GOOD AND BAD PLANETS 


EM GOOD 


pfofeblalAlob btu 
SSEG SSMS Sane 


ro 
=e aa 
az 


Me 
14°37" 


DASA BHUKTI 
MO. DAY YR. MO. DAY YR 


Richard M. Nixon 
01-09-1913 9:35 p.m. PST 
33°N53' 117°W49' True Node 


12 05 77 


Yo 05 05 79 
UO 05 03 80 
O24 11 20 82 
Ob 02 25 85 


RICHARD NIXON 2¢ 


This horoscope is exceptional, as the 1st, 5th and 9th houses are 
extremely powerful. These are all dharma houses, and a profound destiny 
and life purpose are therefore indicated. The ascendant is well fortified, 
as it is aspected by 2 benefics, Venus and Jupiter. Also, the ascendant 
lord (the Sun) is in the auspicious 5th house, conjunct with Jupiter, 
and achieves vargottama. The 5th house is extraordinary, as the two 
yogakarakas for Leo ascendant (the Sun and Mars) are posited within 
thus forming the best of all conditions, the rajayoga. Also, the lord of the 
Sth (Jupiter) is in the 5th. The combination of such beneficial lords as 
the 1st, 4th, 5th, 9th, and 11th all in one house is extremely fortunate. 
While the 8th lord, Jupiter, is also in the 5th, it is not so harmful, since 
it is posited in its own sign, Sagittarius. The 9th house is remarkable, as 
its ruler, Mars, is in the 5th, winning the war with Mercury and 
conjoined within 2 degrees of Jupiter. Note that no planets occupy 
houses of enemies except in the navamsa. Also, the results of the 16 
varga charts (given on page 322) reveal extraordinary power for nearly all 
9 planets. 


FAME—Aside from the rare destiny already described above, Jup- 
iter and Venus both aspect the ascendant. The ascendant lord occupies 
the auspicious Sth house and is conjunct with Jupiter. The 10th lord 
(Venus) aspects the ascendant. Poorvapunya is extremely powerful, as 
noted by the strong 5th house. Saturn in the 10th house is excellent for 
career success if the rest of the horoscope is well disposed, as this one is. 
Saturn is also retrograde, which, since it is a malefic, makes it all the 
more powerful for its house placement. To add even more strength, 
Saturn occupies its own sign in the navamsa. Luck, which plays a signif- 
icant part in one's attaining fame, is very strong, as noted by the well- 
disposed Mars, ruler of the 9th house. 


POWERFUL SENSE OF DESTINY—During his military years R.N. 
proclaimed he would become President. This is due to the exceptional Sth 
house, which, when powerful, gives a sense of destiny due to its rulership 
of poorvapunya. 


INTEREST IN POLITICS AND RULERSHIP—These tendecies are 
obvious, as the entire horoscope centers on the powerful Sth house. Also, 
there is the kingly Leo ascendant, and its ruler (Sun) in the house of 
politics and kingship (the 5th), conjunct with the ruler of the the 5th. 


;0 ister to the masses. The interest and ability in politics came so early that 
R.N. became president of the student body at both of the colleges he 
attended. 


INTELLIGENCE—R.N. graduated both of the colleges he attended at 
the top of his class with honors. This is again a result of his wonderful 
Sth house. However, because Mercury, the planet of intellectual 
functions, is ruined due to losing the planetary war to Mars, there are 
"blind spots" in R.N.'s thinking. But intelligence is great in any case. 


PRACTICALITY, TECHNICAL ABILITY, CAREER IN LAW—Mars con- 
junct with Mercury in the house of pooruapunya indicates that R.N. was 
born with these abilities as a result of efforts from previous lives. Jupiter 
in the Sth and conjunct with the ascendant lord also favors the interest 
in law. Saturn in the 10th house gives seriousness and great practicality. 


ABILITY & INTEREST IN SPORTS—tThis is due to the powerful 
Mars and 5th house. R.N. played football in college and has continued to 
bowl, golf, and enjoy professional sports as a spectator. 


TENDENCY TO LIE OR USE FOUL LANGUAGE—Ancient Hindu 
sages have declared that Mars conjoined with Mercury makes one a thief 
or liar. The 2nd house, which governs speech and truthfulness, is in one 
way, badly marred, as its lord, Mercury, loses the planetary war to Mars. It 
was in the Mercury period that lying caused R.N.'s undoing. Exalted Ketu 
in the 2nd of course strengthens 2nd house affairs but still tends to 
cause the use of foul language. The White House tapes proved that R.N. 
not only lied but also used a good deal of foul language. 


GOOD ORATORICAL AND DEBATING ABILITY—Exalted Ketu in 
2nd house gives excellent speaking ability and knowledge, both essentials 
for debating. R.N. won debating awards in college and defeated J.F.K. 
(technically) in the Presidential debates. 


WEALTHY & KNOWLEDGEABLE—Ketu is exalted in the 2nd house, 
thereby giving these attributes. It took some time to gain wealth, however, 
since Mercury, the ruler of the 2nd, is so devastated. Money has also come 
from highly successful investments, as a result of the powerful Sth house. 


TWO BROTHERS DIE BEFORE ADULTHOOD—Mercury, lord of the 
11 th, loses the war to Mars, thus harming the eldest brother. The 3rd 
house is completely unaspected, and its ruler Venus is closely aspected by 
Saturn. However, the negative effects on younger siblings are not so 
obvious or definite as those on the eldest sibling, especially since Mars, 
the karaka of brothers, is so well disposed. 


MANY ENEMIES OR JEALOUS FOES—tThe most personal influ- 
ence, the Moon, occupies the house of enemies (the 6th). The Moon harms 


6th house significations by its rulership of the 12th. The lord of the 6th 25 
occupies the 10th, causing career enemies. Another detrimental effect 

is caused by Saturn, the ruler of the 6th, being retrograde. It is an 
accepted fact that R.N. had a phenomenal number of enemies and detrac- 
tors (including the press), both before and after he made his great come- 
back by winning the 1968 Presidential election. The indications that he 
could overcome such great enemies come from his powerful ascendant 
and beneficial 9th (the house of luck). 


FRIENDS CAUSE PROBLEMS—Mercury, lord of the 11th, loses the 
war to Mars. R.N. surounded himself with some of the most questionable 
characters in politics, from his ousted Vice President to those who 
planned and carried out the Watergate caper. These people were not 
merely subordinates (6th house) but close friends. 


PERFECTIONISM & DETAIL ABILITY—The waxing Moon in the 
6th and the Mars Mercury conjunction causes these attributes. R.N. had 
a reputation very early on as a man of "flawless efficiency." 


ADORES MOTHER (CONSIDERS HER A SAINT)—Mars, the lord of 
the 4th, occupies the beneficial 5th house, wins the war with Mercury, 
and conjuncts Jupiter within 2 degrees. This is an extremely fortunate con- 
dition, which would also benefit his mother and give her a long life. How- 
ever, because the Moon is in the evil 6th house and, though waxing, is not 
very bright, the mother's life was difficult. Since Mars also rules the 9th 
house, it is evident that R.N. was born of strong parentage on both sides. 


LASTING MARRIAGE—Venus in the 7th is generally quite favorable 
for married life. Also, both Venus and Saturn are strengthened because 
they exchange signs. However, married life cannot be too sweet, as Venus 
is closely aspected by Saturn, and Saturn, the 7th ruler, is retrograde. 


LONG LIFE—Extremely powerful ascendant and ascendant lord. 
Jupiter, the lord of the 8th (longevity) is strong, as it is in its own sign in 
the auspicious 5th house. Although it is very close to Mars, it is not much 
harmed, since together these 2 planets form a rajayoga, as they make a 
conjunction of the 5th and 9th lords. Rahu in the 8th is a good influence, 
since it is in the sign of a benefic which in this case is not an enemy. A 
long life is relatively certain. Ayush karaka Saturn is of little help in deli- 
neation in this case, since it is of mixed disposition. It is weak by its 
retrograde condition but strong by being in a friendly sign and in its 
swakshetra in the nauamsa. 


MANY MAJOR UPS & DOWNS—Saturn in any kendra, in this case 
in the 10th, causes this condition. 


SEXUAL PASSIONS TONED DOWN—Although Venus in the 7th 
gives strong passion and sensuality, Saturn in the 10th closely aspects 


52 


Venus, the 7th, and 12th, houses. Also, ancient sages have declared that 
the Moon in the 6th causes one to lack sexual passion. 


AILMENTS INVOLVING LEGS (PHLEBITIS)—R.N. was hospitalized 
for this serious condition in the early part of Mercury dasa. Mercury is 
badly afflicted—in the sign of Sagittarius, which rules thighs. Mercury 
also rules the Ilth house, which governs the legs. 


SUCCESS IN FOREIGN AFFAIRS—The 12th house is aspected by 
its own ruler, the Moon. More significantly, the 12th house from the 
Moon is very powerful. Mars and Saturn also aspect the natal 12th, which 
energizes the house but causes problems in foreign countries, such as the 
occurrence in Latin America in 1958, when R.N. and his wife were 
assailed by mobs of anti-U.S. demonstrators. 


WAITING FOR A SOLUTION TO WATERGATE—R.N. tried to stone- 
wall the Watergate affair, to an extent because anyone with a powerful 9th 
house is used to excellent luck and solutions to nearly all problems. 


SUPERIORITY COMPLEX—Jupiter in the house of the mind gives 
this effect. 


INFAMOUS DOWNFALL—This cannot be seen in R.N.'s natal horo- 
scope without analyzing the dasas. It is true that Saturn in any kendra 
gives many major ups and downs; however, his phenomenal decline is 
due to his entering the Mercury dasa. As Mercury is so afflicted in the 
Sth house, it seems that this also was a result of his poorvapunya. 


DASA—BHUKTI HIGHLIGHTS 


MARS DASA_It is generally quite beneficial when one is born into 
a dasa of a powerful or well-disposed planet, since the early formative 
years have such a great bearing on the entire life. Therefore R.N. was 
lucky to be born into the middle of the Mars period. While Saturn is the 
planet of leadership, it is Mars that gives the tendencies and abilities to 
rule or command others. This sort of disposition, then, was ingrained very 
early on. 


JUPITER MARS—Whenever a dasa bhukti occurs between 2 planets 
in close aspect, especially the conjunction or opposition, intense results 
are bound to occur. Mars and Jupiter are within 2 degrees of each other, 
and Mars is well disposed, not only because it is conjunct with Mercury 
and Jupiter but also because it is the yogakaraka for Leo ascendant. Also 
since Mars and Jupiter rule the Sth and 9th houses, they form the best 
condition of all—the raja yoga. This dasa bhukti would not specifically 
portend fame, since neither planet rules the 1st or 10th houses. However, 
it would have to be predicted that at this time beneficial results relating 


to R.N.'s destiny and his credit from past-life efforts would burst forth. It 
was during this period that R.N. gained national prominence by his work 
on the famous un-American activities case of Alger Hiss. 


SATURN DASA—As the planet of leadership, Saturn occupying the 
career house gave R.N. his most successful and powerful years. Saturn, 
when unafflicted, always causes one to work diligently in one's career and 
reap the rewards of past efforts. It is especially beneficial in terms of form 
and structure. At the very commencement of the dasa, R.N. was propelled 
to the Vice Presidency in which he served from 1952 to 1958. Saturn is 
strong because it functions very well in either of Venus' signs (since Libra 
is its exaltation position). Saturn is also exchanging signs with Venus 
and occupies its own sign in the navamsa. Finally, retrograde malefics 
give excellent results, especially in one of the upachaya houses where 
malefics are welcomed. 


SATURN VENUS—At this point R.N. ran for President. Saturn and 
Venus are both well forified, since they occupy kendras which are owned 
by friends. They also gain strength (especially during the specific dasa 
bhukti) because they exchange signs. However, Venus, which rules the 
houses of career (the 10th) and efforts & desires (the 3rd), is very closely 
aspected by malefic Saturn. This aspect was effective, and the election 
was lost, though by an absurdly small margin. 


SATURN MOON—R.N. ran for governor of California and lost to 
Jerry Brown by some 296,000 votes out of 6,000,000. He bitterly blamed 
his enemies—the press—for the loss and stated, "You won't have Nixon to 
kick around anymore." Although Saturn and the Moon are in the auspi- 
cious Sth and 9th relationship from each other, the Moon, as a dusthana 
lord (the 12th) posited in the 6th, caused enemies to show up. 


SATURN JUPITER—Jupiter rules and occupies the house of king- 
ship (politics) and poorvapunya (the Sth). It was during this period that 
R.N. finally won the Presidency and fulfilled his long-intended destiny. 


MERCURY DASA—The beginning of this period produced intensely 
mixed results. There is little doubt that Mercury would fail to cause great 
troubles due to its planetary war with Mars. However, Mercury is also 2 
degrees away from Jupiter and achieves uargottama. The outcome was 
that R.N. was elected President by the largest landslide in U.S. history up 
to that time. However, there was also a great anti-Nixon movement work- 
ing against him via college students, the intelligentsia, and the press—all 
Mercurial influences! And the Watergate affair was a problem practically 
from the first day of his second term. What enabled Watergate to bring 
about his ruin were two Mercurial functions: his lying and the private 
tape recordings of all White House conversations. Also, of course, R.N.'s 
entire mentality was now very badly affected. 


2 


Ec 
Ls 


354 MERCURY VENUS—It was in late 1974 that R.N. resigned the Pre- 
sidency. Considering public opinion, it is interesting that what seemed 
inevitable took so long to finally occur. However, even though Watergate 
began in the very beginning of 1973, it was somewhat unlikely that he 
would have fallen at any point during that year because the bhukti in 
effect was Ketu, which in this birthchart is exalted. But when the sub- 
period of Venus arrived, the end was definitely near. This is because 
Venus rules the 10th house (career) and is powerfully aspected by malefic 
Saturn. Also, Venus is in an enemy's sign in both the rasi and navamsa 
charts. 


JOHN LENNON 2° 


This horoscope is a good example of a man fortunate enough to 
make the statement 'We're more popular than Jesus." The phenomenal 
attention that Lennon received is due mainly to one enormously positive 
influence in the 1st house. Rahu, which represents insatiable worldly 
desires and benefits, is exalted in the 1st house in both the rasi and 
nauamsa charts. It is in the exact degree of the ascendant and just barely 
beginning its forward motion some 6 hours after it had been stationary 
direct. Rahu dasa began in 1960 and the rise to stardom was on! 


The next most significant influence, which also aided in attaining 
such vast fame, is the well-disposed condition of Saturn, which rules the 
Sth (pooruapunya) and 6th (ability to rise above competitors). At first 
glance Saturn may seem badly afflicted because it occupies the 8th house 
in the highest degree of its neecha placement. However, it is also retro- 
grade, which greatly weakens the negative influence. Further, it is exalted 
in the nauamsa, and Hindu sages are emphatic that when a planet is 
fallen in the rasi and exalted in the nauamsa, it will produce good results. 
Most importantly, Saturn has won the war with Jupiter, and this is a 
condition of immense benefit because of the benefic nature of Jupiter. 
Whenever a neecha planet conjoins a benefic, it is the benefic which is 
spoiled, while the fallen planet flourishes. On top of all this, Saturn is 
beneficially aspected by Mercury, ruler of the 1st and 10th houses. There- 
fore all 5th and 6th house significations are greatly empowered. 


In terms of the 4 basic functions of human life according to Hindu 
philosophy, the emphasis in this horoscope is on dharma and moksha. 
The powerful dharma is seen by the many planets occupying the 1st and 
Sth and the beneficial disposition of the rulers of those houses. The mok- 
sha influence is seen by the moksha lord in a moksha house (the 4th 
lord in the 8th), and moksha lords (the 8th and 12th) in the ascendant. Also, 
the placement of yogakaraka Venus in the 12th house, and other planetary 
influences mentioned below under "spirituality," had their impact. 


POET, WIT, & PROLIFIC SONGWRITER—Mercury in the 2nd gives 
these abilities because the 2nd is the house of imagination, speech, po- 
etry, knowledge, etc. In this case, Mercury is in a friend's house, and the 
intense energy it has received from the close aspects of both Jupiter and 
Saturn has had a most fortunate effect. It is also noted that the entire 
horoscope revolves around intellectual tendencies. From the waxing Moon 


VIMSOTTARI 


DASA BHUKTI 
MO. DAY YR. MO. DAY YR. 


John Lennon 
R05 07 65 10-09-1940 07:00 a.m. DST 
7_03_13 68 53°N O3°W 


10 19 71 
© 10 18 74 
> 09 12 75 


in the Sth (house of mind) to the Mercury-ruled ascendants containing 257 
exalted Rahu in both the rasi and navamsa. 


INTEREST IN ART—Lennon's aunt was told by the school head- 
master that J.L. "must either be an artist (painting & drawing) or nothing 
at all." And this was what he studied in his short-lived college education. 
It is the placement of the all-important Moon in the house of art and the 
well-disposed 5th house which have given such inclinations. It is also 
noted that Venus is posited in the 1st house in the navamsa. Though 
talented, J.L. was not considered a particularly great artist. Venus, the 
planet of art, is aspected by Jupiter but is in an enemy's sign in the de- 
structive 12th house. 


MUSICAL CAREER—Oddly enough, it would have been difficult to 
predict that J.L.'s chosen profession would be music. The ruler of the 3rd 
house, Mars, is in the 1st and conjunct with the atmakaraka Sun, so 
musical interest is somewhat indicated. But Mars is in an enemy's sign, 
conjunct with 2 malefics, and the 3rd house is completely unaspected. So 
whereas art, poetry, and writing are obvious facets of the life, music does 
not so powerfully present itself except in the retrospective conclusion that 
the extraordinary Mercury has given such talent. For Mercury does in fact 
relate to music and other fine arts. 


LITTLE HAPPINESS FROM MOTHER—Although the Moon, as ka- 
raka of the mother, is waxing and in the beneficial 5th house, the 4th 
house is devastated. The ruler of the 4th, Jupiter, is weakened by its ret- 
rograde status. It is in the evil 8th house and aspected by Mars. Much 
worse, it has lost the planetary war with malefic Saturn. Mars also aspects 
the 4th, causing further ruin of the house. There is some good influence, 
as Jupiter aspects the 4th, its own house (Sagittarius). Due to this and 
the well-placed Moon, J.L did have a strong love for his mother. However, 
as the 4th house is so spoiled, J.L was raised by his aunt rather than his 
mother. His mother lived a difficult life, was abandoned by John's father a 
year or two after J.L.'s birth, and died a very early death, never having 
witnessed her son's fame. 


NO HAPPINESS FROM FATHER—Lennon barely knew his father, 
who left home when he was still a baby. The ruler of the 9th house, Venus, 
is in the destructive 12th in an enemy's sign. There are no aspects to the 
Oth. The karaka of the father, the Sun is in the 1st, conjunct with two 
malefics, Mars and Rahu. Malefics, even when exalted, generally harm the 
planets they conjoin and in this case Rahu is within only 5 degrees of the 
Sun. The only beneficial influence to the signification of the father is that 
Jupiter aspects Venus, the 9th ruler. When J.L. became famous and his 
father, who was a dishwasher, came to visit, he was rather quickly 
shown to the door! 


58 LITTLE HIGHER EDUCATION & NO DEGREE—Gaining higher 
knowledge has to do with the 9th house, which, as already described, is 
weak. Failing to obtain a degree is due to the badly marred 4th house. 
There is definitely good intelligence, though, as noted by the waxing Moon 
in the Sth, the well-disposed Saturn, ruler of the 5th, and the strong 
Mercury. 


MARRIED LIFE & DIVORCE—J.L. was married for the 1st time in 
1962, after his girlfriend Cynthia became pregnant. It is reported that he 
felt marriage was the only "proper" thing to do, and this may be due to 
the Moon in the 5th, which makes a person virtuous, of good morals, and 
intent on doing good deeds. In any event, there was a great lack of com- 
patibility, and divorce resulted in 1968. Marriage difficulties are easily 
seen in this horoscope. The ruler of the 7th, Jupiter, as already explained 
is very badly afflicted. And either of the nodes in the 7th, in this case 
Ketu, causes constant issues and upheavals in the domestic sphere. The 
7th house is aspected by two uyayas, the lords of the 8th and 12th. 
Venus, the karaka of the 7th, is in the 12th in an enemy's house. Finally, 
Mars in the 1st is causing Kujadosha. It is unusual, however, that J.L. left 
his wife and was not the obvious "victim" of the divorce, as is generally 
the case with a Kujadosha horoscope. 


Choosing a spouse such as Yoko is rather discernible, since Ketu in 
the 7th gives a "strange," "weird," or spiritual spouse. Also, as Jupiter, the 
7th lord, conjoins Saturn, Yoko was some years older than John. And 
Saturn rules ascetic-type gurus and wise persons, which, if not actually 
the case, certainly was John's experience of Yoko. Even this marriage was 
not without incident, and after John took leave of Yoko and then wanted 
to return, he was forced to wait until Yoko felt he was "ready." Their sepa- 
ration lasted a year and a half. 


SPECIAL FRIENDS—The 11th house must have been well disposed 
for J.L. to attract such friends as the other 3 beatles. This is noted by the 
11th lord waxing Moon aspecting its own house from its auspicious 
placement in the Sth. The fact of the 1 1 th lord occupying the house of 
pooruapunya indicates that these friends were a result of past life efforts 
and a certainty of his destiny. Friendships, however, were not devoid of 
difficulties, as Saturn aspected the 11th lord, Moon, and Jupiter, the ka- 
raka of the 11th, is badly afflicted. 


SPECIAL OR FAMOUS CHILDREN—The 5th house's being so en- 
hanced by the occupancy of the bright Moon, along with the well disposed 
condition of the house ruler, Saturn, has produced children whose lives 
should be very special. John's eldest son, Julian (from the 1st marriage), 
has already gained international fame as a musician. Regarding the 
births of two sons, the Moon, which is a feminine planet, often produces 
boys when the lord of the house is well disposed, as this one is. Were it 


not for Saturn's aspect on the 5th house Moon and the weak Jupiter 259 
(karaka of the 5th), there would have been more children. It may also be 
mentioned that Yoko had three miscarriages before the birth of Sean, and 
this must be due to her horoscope. The children of J.L. will also be of 
spiritual or ascetic disposition due to the abovementioned Saturn aspect. 
Finally, it is the Moon in the 5th which led John to take such a strong 
interest in raising his second son by becoming a "house husband" during 
the last 5 years of his life. 


RESIDENCE & SUCCESS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES—Considered 
an unhappy fate by ancient Hindus, residence in foreign lands usually 
occurs as a result of an afflicted 7th house and a beneficial 12th (remote 
foreign lands). In this horoscope both of these conditions are in place. 


SPIRITUALITY—Although Jupiter and the 9th house are both weak, 
there is overall a tremendous emphasis on moksha in this chart. The 2 
outer planets in Hindu astrology, Jupiter & Saturn, are conjoined with 
each other. They are also posited in the 8th, a moksha house, and Jupiter 
is therefore a lord of a moksha house (the 4th) occupying another mok- 
sha house. More dramatically, the ascendant is occupied by 3 spiritual 
influences: 2 moksha lords (Mars rules the 8th and the Sun rules the 
12th) and exalted Rahu. It may here be mentioned that Rahu is unique 
in being able to represent both worldly benefits and moksha tendencies 
at the same time. The next powerful influence is Saturn's aspect on the 
Moon which leads to asceticism and worship of Shiva. Finally, the ascen- 
dant lord, Mercury, is closely aspected by the 2 spiritual planets, Jupiter 
and Saturn, and yogakaraka Venus is posited in the 12th, which specifi- 
cally rules moksha. Also note that the Moon occupies the house of spiri- 
tual techniques and the 9th house in the navamsa is well disposed. Aside 
from the fact that J.L. was always intent on self-development and higher 
consciousness, he spent some months in India meditating with Mahari- 
shi Mahesh Yogi, founder of the Transcendental Meditation Program. He 
also had private audiences with Satya Sai Baba, the reputed avatar in 
India, and A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami, founder of the Hare Krishna move- 
ment. However, due to the afflicted 9th house and Jupiter, he never stayed 
with any one guru. During the last few years of his life, J.L. practiced 
macrobiotics, a spiritual way of life through the eating of natural foods. 


GENEROUS & INTENT ON PERFORMING GOOD DEEDS—Venus 
is the one planet considered by ancient Hindu sages to produce good 
results in the 12th house. It gives wealth, generosity, and the tendency to 
spend on good causes. Benefics in the 2nd, in this case Mercury, also 
make one charitable. And the Moon in the 5th indicates good character, 
morals, and the intention to perform good deeds. J.L. was known to be 
charitable and also established Apple Corp. in order to give unknown 
artists a chance to be heard. Despite his aggressive moodiness, rebel- 
liousness, and drug abuse, an honest, charitable, and sincere person is 


160 


indicated by this horoscope. 


EARLY AND VIOLENT DEATH—This occurrence is easier seen by 
the dasa bhukti in effect at the time of death than by the natal horo- 
scope. However, as ominous as the indications of premature death are in 
this horoscope, it is important to acknowledge that astrology as practiced 
by man is not an absolute science. Therefore sometimes even classic text- 
book examples, such as the one in this chart, fail to produce the expected 
result. Unfortunately this was not the case here, and any Hindu astrologer 
worth his salt would have advised J.L. to begin chanting a Jupiter mantra 
and to perform other religious austerities prior to (or during) the Jupiter 
dasa. The severely afflicted Jupiter in the house of death could not have 
helped but produce terrible effects in its period, especially since it has 
achieved death-inflicting power as a maraka (ruler of the 7th). As frighten- 
ing as the possibilities were for Jupiter dasa-Jupiter bhukti, it is the 
period of Jupiter Saturn which most blatantly spells death, and this is 
when the assasination took place. The tendency to attract violence is 
shown by the Sun Mars conjunction in the 1st (both planets ruling evil 
houses). However, the greatest cause was the current dasa planet occupy- 
ing the 8th house and closely conjoined with the malefic Saturn, not to 
mention the aspect from Mars. That the ruler of the 8th, Mars, was in an 
enemy's house conjunct with two malefics cannot have helped matters! 


PERSONALITY—Though personality analysis is usually better left 
to Western astrological techniques, there are several fascinating condi- 
tions revealed in this chart. Regarding the 1st house, there is a great 
amount of energy present. The ascendant lord, Mercury, is powerfully 
aspected in the house of money and knowledge, and thus these become 
enjoyable and vital facets of the life. The energizing aspects to the ascen- 
dant lord also serve to enhance the ego, fame, energy, and well-being. The 
3 planets in the 1st house immediately enlarge the ego and indicate one 
who will not go through life unnoticed. The 2 malefics Mars and Sun, 
because they rule the most evil houses (the 8th and 12th), ruin the self- 
confidence, self-esteem, and self-love, but this would not be obvious to all, 
since the Sun and Mars are proud and aggressive influences. Therefore 
J.L. would act extroverted and like a class clown, etc., but those close to 
him would see the tremendous sensitivity and need for acceptance, 
recognition, and unconditional love. It may also be mentioned that be- 
cause Mars and the Sun are hot planets, there would exist an occasionally 
angry disposition capable of lashing out sarcastically or in other ways. 


Although it is predominantly the exalted Rahu in the 1st which 
has given fame, it has also produced its normal 1st house effect of a self- 
centered or self-indulgent personality. Rahu in the ascendant indeed pro- 
duces one who will struggle the entire life for a positive self-image. And 
this was the case with J.L. However, because Rahu is exalted it has given 
another side of the personality: almost God-like confidence, which was 
essential to his immense creativity. 


It is important to note that while J.L. was spiritual and therefore 
of a certain contentment, happiness would always remain a terribly difficult 
proposition. This is because the 4th house and Venus, which govern this 
issue, are both afflicted, the 4th more so than Venus. Mental distress is 
also revealed by the isolated position of the Moon combined with the 
Saturn aspect upon it. Also, the Moon in the house of the mind causes 
moodiness and a highly passionate response to one's beliefs and thoughts, 
both of which characterized this artist. 


RESTING IN HEAVEN—Venus, the natural benefic and yogakar- 
aka for Virgo ascendant posited in the 12th house and aspected by Jup- 
iter, indicates that J.L. now resides in a heavenly plane of existence. 


CHANDRA LAGNA—When analyzing this horoscope using the 
Moon's position as the 1st house, the houses found to be extremely pow- 
erful are the 1st, 2nd, and 9th. This has further fortified the chances of 
fame, luck, and wealth. Mercury in the 10th from the Moon strengthens 
the likelihood of a career centered on communications, intellectual func- 
tions, and the written or spoken word, etc. The 4th house is also quite 
powerful and may have some bearing on the fact that J.L. owned many 
mansions and some Rolls Royces. 


f M x 
= ie el 


VIMSOTTARI 


BHUKTI 
MO. DAY YR. 


DASA 
MO. DAY YR. 


Ol mae 


Ca 
a 
30° 02 10 60 


Cee 4k 10 17 63 
05 29 17 


U 


John F. Kennedy 
05-29-1917 03:00 p.m. EST 
42°N19° 71°WO6' 
Source—M, Moore 


JOHN F. KENNEDY 2: 


The horoscope of J.F.K. is a fascinating example of a birthchart 
with a mixture of extreme indications. The most interesting and complex 
planet is that of Mercury, lord of the 1st and 10th houses. It is marred by 
its placement in the evil 8th house, the aspect it receives from Saturn (a 
worse aspect than usual, since Mercury occupies Aries, the sign where 
Saturn energy is most harmful—i.e., Saturn's neecha placement) and its 
almost exact conjunction with malefic Mars. However, it also is in perhaps 
the most powerful state possible: stationary direct! The latter situation 
has given intense fame and a super-charismatic personality, while the 
former condition is responsible for a life of chronic and painful physical 
ailments and a violent early death. Regarding fame, this has not occurred 
solely due to Mercury but also because the 10th house holds exalted Ketu, 
Jupiter aspects the ascendant, and there is immense luck, as indicated by 
the 9th house. Also quite significant is the fact that exalted Rahu occu- 
pies the ascendant in the navamsa. 


ELDEST BROTHER DIES—The 1 1 th house is very badly afflicted 
as it is occupied by Saturn, which is not welcomed in Cancer, an enemy's 
sign. Saturn is also aspected by Mars, which in this case is a terrible 
aspect for both the house and Saturn because Mars is aspecting its fallen 
sign, Cancer. Further, Saturn occupies an enemy's sign in the navarnsa. 
Worse yet, the ruler of the 11th, the Moon is posited in the evil 12th house 
and is fallen in the navamsa. Finally, Jupiter, the karaka of the 11th, is 
powerless due to its position in the 1st degree of a sign, its conjunction 
with the 12th lord Sun, and its fallen placement in the navamsa. Joseph 
Kennedy, the eldest brother, died tragically in a plane crash during his 
military years. 


COURAGE—J.F.K., honored for bravery in his naval career and 
author of Profiles In Courage, remarked to his wife that courage was the 
single quality he most admired. Mars is about the most potent planet in 
this horoscope, for although it is Mercury which is stationary direct, it is 
Mars that benefits most from the energy due to the 2 degree conjunction 
with the benefic. Also, Mars occupies its own sign in both charts, Aries in 
the rasi, and Scorpio in the navamsa. The 3rd house, which rules hero- 
ism and bravery, etc., is greatly energized by the aspects of 4 planets. 
These are Jupiter, Venus, the Sun, and Mars, which beneficially aspects 
its own house, Scorpio in this case. These 3rd house indications have also 
produced famous younger siblings and great adventures. Saturn's already 


14 described cruel aspect on Mars in the 8th is a clue to the ill-fated destiny 
of his younger brother Bobby. 


POLITICS, LAW, & TECHNICAL ABILITY—The 5th house (politics) 
is receiving some powerful favorable energy, as it is aspected by Jupiter 
and its own lord, Saturn. However, Saturn as lord of 5th is in bad condi- 
tion, as already mentioned. Therefore the significations of politics (and 
intelligence, for that matter) must exist elsewhere. In this case it is the 
Mercury Mars conjunction of such exceptional disposition (Mars in its 
own sign and Mercury stationary direct) which is responsible for both of 
these noted qualities. Whenever Mercury is aspected by the malefics Mars 
or Saturn, there is a practical nature and leanings towards a career in 
law, engineering, or any technical field. Mercury in this chart is aspected 
by both Mars and Saturn. Incidentally, it is interesting to note how many 
politicians have the Mercury Mars conjunction, which the ancient Hindu 
sages declared makes one a thief or liar. J.F.K. was not generally consid- 
ered such, but it is thought that his election to the Presidency was 
"bought," and it is certain that his people cheated in some states when 
counting the ballots. It is also important to mention that Mars, which 
rules commanders, aspects the ascendant lord in the charts of nearly 
every modern-day U.S. President, J.F.K's being no exception. 


HUGE SEXUAL APPETITE AND GREAT SEXUAL PLEASURE— 
There is one particular condition known to certain Hindu astrologers 
which produces an enormous sexual appetite, and that occurs whenever 
Venus and the Moon are conjunct, or angular, to each other (assuming 
there is no Saturn aspect interfering with either planet). In this case the 2 
planets are not only angular from each other but in the exact same 
degree! That Mars, the planet of sexual desires and activities, is so power- 
ful is also significant in this matter. And it is obvious that these strong 
desires would not go unfulfilled, due to the vital and well-disposed 12th 
house. The Moon, whose house position is always an area of great energy 
and interest, in this case occupies the 12th. As the Moon is fallen in 
navamsa, however, it is not so good an influence as it would usually be. 
But, the lord of the 12th, the Sun, is in the auspicious 9th house and is 
hemmed in by 2 benefics, one of which is the yogakaraka for Virgo 
ascendant and occupies its own sign (Venus). The Sun is also vargottama 
and therefore stronger still. There can be no doubt that this is a powerful 
12th house! Much has been written about J.F.K.'s escapades and alleged 
orgies, both before marriage and during his White House years. As his 
affair with Marilyn Monroe is common knowledge, it cannot be denied 
that he was fortunate indeed in the matter of what Hindus term "bed 
pleasures"! 


SEXUAL ATTRACTIVENES—tThe 8th house governs sexual strength 
and is in this horoscope extremely powerful. Although it is badly aspected 
by Saturn glancing on its fallen sign Aries, Mars in its own sign, conjunct 


stationary direct Mercury has greatly fortified the house. Therefore J.F.K. 
may perhaps be considered one of the sexiest U.S. Presidents. 


MARRIAGE DIFFICULTIES—Although J.F.K. was not divorced, a 
very difficult married life is certainly indicated. The 7th house ruler, Jup- 
iter, is in the powerless and fateful 1st degree and is conjunct with the 
12th lord malefic Sun. It is also fallen in the navamsa. Venus, the 
karaka of the 7th, while in the beneficial 9th house and in its own sign, is 
also (to its detriment) conjunct with the Sun. Even these indications 
are in a sense insignificant, since Kujadosha is revealed by Mars in 
the 8th house. Therefore, there may have been some truth to the rumors 
of Jackie's desires to divorce J.F.K. before the Presidential election. In any 
event, married life was no state of bliss, and divorce would have been an 
eventuality had J.F.K. lived. Since Jupiter (ruler of the 7th) dasa 
began in August 1961, it is probable that married life became more 
strained than usual at that time. J.F.K. did not many until the age of 36, 
and it is said that he finally did so because it was essential for one who 
wanted the Presidency. It is also alleged that he was constantly engaged 
in extramarital affairs and spent relatively little time or interest on his 
marriage. Note that there are no aspects to the 7th house to energize it, 
and the ruler, Jupiter, is in the powerless 1st degree. Also, that he would 
get a wife who was pretty, aesthetic, or artistic is due to the 7th ruler's 
conjunction (wide though it be) with Venus. 


HOMES —It is worth noting that for all his wealth and power, J.F.K. 
did not own his own home until he had been married for 4 years. This is 
due to the weakness of Jupiter, ruler of the 4th house. Also, the karakas 
of the 4th are the Moon and Mercury, and the Moon occupies the 12th 
and is fallen in the navamsa. Mercury itself is of mixed disposition. 


THE INTELLECTUAL PRESIDENT—J.F.K. was a rarity amongst 
Presidents in that he was regarded as one of the most intellectually 
oriented of them. Most, it seems, are essentially concerned with power 
and rulership. Note the Virgo ascendant with its ruler Mercury stationary 
direct. Also, Virgo is the ascendant sign in the navamsa. 


THE INSPIRATIONAL PRESIDENT—Apart from J.F.K.'s great cha- 
risma, which is a lst house matter, he was an extremely inspirational 
President due to the powerful 9th house. The two benefics Venus and 
Jupiter (Venus being yogakaraka) and the atmakaraka in the 9th indi- 
cate a person with a strong natural faith in God and a sense of devotion. 
More importantly, these conditions reveal one who is profoundly 
involved in philosophical matters. Because of his strong philosophical 
base, J.F.K. was able to inspire an entire generation of people. 


LUCK & FATHER—Contemperary politicians were constantly awed 
by the extent of good fortune that J.F.K. enjoyed during his ascendancy to 


ae 


66 the top. That the rich and powerful Joseph Kennedy would spare no 
expense to put his son in the White House is a commonly known fact. 
Both of these conditions are revealed by the well-disposed 9th house and 
its karakas, the Sun and Jupiter. The Sun, though occupying an enemy's 
house, is in the auspicious 9th and is uargottama. It is quite beneficially 
hemmed in by 2 benefics, one of them, Venus occupying its own sign and 
being the yogakaraka for Virgo ascendant. The 9th house itself holds 
yogakaraka Venus, Jupiter, and the Sun. Though the Sun rules the evil 
12th house, the 9th is on the whole very powerful, especially since its lord, 
Venus, is in its own sign. The other 9th house karaka, Jupiter, is for its 
own significations rather weak, but is nevertheless a good influence for 
the house it occupies. These indications also show that from the time 
J.F.K. was born his father would greatly prosper. 


CHILDREN—J.F.K. fathered four children, and lost two either at 
birth or slightly afterwards. The ruler of the 5th, Saturn, is badly afflicted, 
and Jupiter, karaka of the 5th, is also weak. The aspect of Jupiter on the 
Sth, however, means that there should be some living children. 
According to Hindu astrological technique, at least three pregnancies 
would have been expected. This is because two planets (Jupiter and 
Saturn) aspect the Sth house and one planet (Mars) aspects the ruler of the 
Sth. Saturn's aspect on the 5th, even though aspecting its own house 
(Capricorn), is not very beneficial regarding children. 


ENERGY, LIFE, MOTIVATION, & ENTHUSIASM—J.F.K. exhibited 
these qualities to an enormous degree, nearly transcending the agonizing 
pain he lived with daily. The public was generally unaware of the amount 
of time that the President spent on crutches while in the White House. In 
fact, years later Bobby Kennedy stated that half of his brother's days on 
earth were spent in intense physical pain. The physical ailments are due 
to the ascendant lord's placement so close to Mars and the cruel aspect 
Saturn makes to Mercury in the sign of Aries (Saturn's neecha position). 
The adventurousness, energy, and great life force J.F.K. possessed are due 
to the phenomenally powerful Mars and 3rd & 8th houses. 


ENEMIES—Aside from the Lee Harvey Oswald lone assassin theory, 
there has been much controversy and speculation that there were indeed 
four or five different factions out to put an end to J.F.K. in November 
1963. Enemies are seen from the 6th house, whose ruler in this case is 
the much afflicted Saturn, as described above. Since the 6th is benefi- 
cially aspected by the waxing Moon, enemies were not necessarily a con- 
stant source of trouble, but during any Saturn dasa or bhukti, powerful 
and effective enemies were likely to appear. Indeed, it was during the 
Saturn bhukti of Jupiter dasa that J.F.K. was shot to death. The 11 th 
house is so marred that it appears quite possible that some of the per- 
sons J.F.K. considered friends may have had a hand in his assassination. 
This is because Saturn, as ruler of the 6th (enemies), occupies the 1 1 th 
(friends), and because the 11th is so terribly afflicted. 


EARLY & VIOLENT DEATH—Because of the extreme and contra- 
dictory indications present, one would have been hard put to predict this 
occurrence beforehand with any certainty. Although the possibility of an 
early or violent end is blatant due to the ascendant lord conjunct with 
Mars in the 8th and aspected cruelly by Saturn, the life houses (the 8th & 
3rd) are extraordinarily powerful. Therefore, this issue is not at all 
simple in terms of natal delineation. However, the death is more easily 
seen from the dasa bhukt that was in operation at the time (explained 
below under "Dasa Bhukti Highlights"). But before reviewing the dasas, it 
will be good to mention all the influences at work regarding the length of 
life. On the negative side, the karaka for longevity is Saturn, and it is very 
weak, as already explained. Also, Saturn aspects the ascendant, which is 
unfavorable. Finally, the 8th house from the Moon is weak, since its ruler, 
Jupiter, is in the powerless 1st degree and is fallen in the nauamsa. On 
the positive side, the 8th house in the rasi chart is enormously powerful 
due to Mars occupying the house in its own sign conjunct with the 
stationary direct Mercury. Also, Jupiter aspects the ascendant. Therefore, 
since there is a mixture of powerful good and evil indications regarding 
longevity, an absolute conclusion is rather difficult. But through an 
analysis of the dasa bhukti that was running in 1963, it must be 
concluded that the death was a logical occurrence. 


CHANDRA LAGNA—From the Moon's position, the indications are 
rather similar to the rasi chart. The 10th house (owned by Taurus) is 
extremely powerful, as it contains Venus in its own sign, Jupiter, and the 
Sun. Though the ascendant holds the Moon, which is fallen in the 
nauamsa, the ruler of the house, the Sun, is in an exceptional condition, 
hemmed in by benefics. The 9th house becomes quite well disposed, as it 
holds the extraordinary Mars Mercury conjunction. The 8th house, how- 
ever, is weak, since its ruler, Jupiter, occupies the powerless 1st degree 
and is fallen in the nauamsa. 


DASA BHUKTI HIGHLIGHTS 


RAHU MARS—It was in this period that J.F.K. was elected Presi- 
dent. Rahu is powerful because it is in a kendra and in a friendly sign. 
Much more importantly, it is exalted in the nauamsa, in the 1st house. 
Mars is most probably the strongest planet in the chart for reasons 
already explained. 


JUPITER JUPITER—Once Jupiter dasa began, a very bad period 
had to be expected due to Jupiter occupying the powerless and fateful 1st 
degree, and due also to its fallen position in the navamsa. Jupiter is 
further marred by its conjunction with the 12th lord Sun. That Jupiter 
dasa held the possibility of death is due to its status as a maraka, since 


55 it rules the 7th house. There is another interesting condition which may 
be contemplated. That is that in the other, more modern, house system 
(see "House Systems," page 7), Jupiter occupies the 8th house rather 
than the 9th. In such a case, Jupiter gains even more death-inflicting 
power. Regarding the fact that Jupiter is 3 to 5 degrees away from the 
malefic Mars Mercury conjunction, Hindu astrologers would not consider 
Jupiter to be affected, since it is in a different sign. In any case, dasas do 
not usually give their full effects in the first bhukti, and this one did not. 
Therefore J.F.K. was not killed in this period, but there is to be no doubt 
that great problems presented themselves. It was during this period that 
J.F.K. faced the Cuban missile crisis, which placed the U.S. on the brink of 
war with the Russians. 


JUPITER SATURN _It was in this period that the violent assassina- 
tion occurred. As already described above, Jupiter was in a very weak and 
afflicted condition. During the bhukti of Saturn, things could not possibly 
get better. This is because Saturn periods would always bring enemies to 
the forefront, since Saturn rules the 6th house and is quite marred. It is 
also important to note that whenever there is a probability of death, it is 
most common for it to occur in the period or subperiod of a malefic (such 
as Saturn). 


MARILYN MONROE 26 


SEXUAL ATTRACTIVENESS—The two yogakarakas for Cancer 
ascendant, Mars and Jupiter, both occupy the 8th house, which governs 
sexual strength. This is an extremely significant benefit to the house 
because, although Mars alone causes rajayoga by its rulership of the 5th 
and 10th houses, there is another rajayoga present. Jupiter rules the 
9th house, and whenever the rulers of the 9th and 10th join together a 
special union is created. Also, Mars is in Aquarius, where it functions very 
well, since it is exalted in Capricorn, Saturn's other sign. The ruler of the 
8th Saturn, though retrograde and in a very late degree, is in its exalta- 
tion sign (past the highest exaltation point). It is also aspected by 2 bene- 
fics, Venus and Jupiter. The house is therefore extraordinarily powerful 
and gives great sensuality and sexiness. Further, there is extreme femi- 
ninity, passion, and beauty, caused by the Moon in the 7th (described 
below under "Great Physical Beauty"). 


GREAT PHYSICAL BEAUTY—The Moon in the 7th, even when wan- 
ing, produces an extremely attractive and magnetic person because of the 
Moon's aspect on the 1st house. In this case, the aspect is much more 
fruitful, because the ascendant is Cancer and is therefore aspected by its 
own lord. Also, although the Moon in the 7th gives attractiveness to 
either a man or a woman, it is a better influence for a woman because of 
the femininity and softness it creates. 


SEXUAL ENJOYMENT—An exalted planet, Rahu, occupies the 12th 
house (bed pleasures). Also, Venus is in a kendra from the Moon (the 
square aspect in Western astrology), which indicates a strong sexual 
appetite. Therefore sexual pleasures were greatly enjoyed. 


SHOW BUSINESS CAREER—The show business career is indi- 
cated by Venus in the 10th, though not merely because this is the career 
house, but because Venus itself is quite powerful by its angular position 
and its placement in its own sign in the navamsa. Also (and this may 
seem odd to Western astrologers), when Saturn aspects Venus there is a 
high chance that the person will perform in the theater. More strangely, 
the same occurs when Saturn is in the house preceding Venus, i.e., when 
Saturn is in the 12th from Venus. In any case, M.M.'s great success and 
fame is due to a benefic in the 10th (Venus), which is in its own sign in 
the navamsa, and to the 10th lord conjoining Jupiter. Regarding talent 
in fine arts, the indications are not exceptional, since the 3rd house is 


Marilyn 
06-01-1926 09:30 a.m. PST 
24°NO4" 118°W15" 


poorly disposed. Its ruler, Mercury, is combust the Sun and aspected by 2’ 
Mars. Also, the Mars aspect to the 3rd house is destructive. However, 
there is some strength to the house, since Mercury is vargottama in a 
friendly sign. 


NO HAPPINESS FROM FATHER—M.M. never knew her father, 
since he was not present at birth and never married her mother. The 9th 
lord (and karaka of the 9th), Jupiter, is in the evil 8th house conjunct 
with malefic Mars. The Sun, the other 9th house karaka, is within 4 
degrees of the 12th lord. It is also aspected by Mars. There are no aspects 
at all to the 9th house. The negative indications regarding the father are 
blatant. 


SPECIAL OR FAMOUS HUSBANDS—tThe Moon in the 7th nearly 
always gives a special spouse. Note that the ruler of the 7th, Saturn, is in 
its exaltation sign and aspected by Venus and Jupiter. M.M. married the 
baseball star JoeDimaggio and the great playwright Arthur Miller. That 
her marriages would fail is due to the Kujadosha indicated by Mars in 
the 8th. The fact that the Moon is waning in the 7th is also of detriment. 
And Saturn's retrograde position in a very late degree may be related to 
the problems. 


DISTURBED HAPPINESS—Saturn in the 4th house, aside from 
creating many ups and downs in life, is very detrimental for happiness. 
The indicator of happiness other than the 4th house is Venus, which, 
though of a powerful disposition, is also aspected by Saturn. 


DRUGS & ALCOHOL—The 2nd house, which rules food is afflicted 
due to its ruler, the Sun, being so closely conjunct the 12th lord. The 
Sun is also aspected by Mars, as is the 2nd house itself (though Jupiter's 
aspect lends some grace). Therefore M.M. would eat bad foods, which to 
the Hindus also means alcohol or drugs. 


EARLY DEATH—This is not easily seen, except for the dasa that 
was in operation at the time. Regarding the natal delineations, the 8th 
house does not reveal an early death because it is, as already mentioned, 
extremely powerful. The 1st house is of mixed disposition, since its lord 
(the Moon) is waning and occupying the 8th house in the navamsa. Also, 
Saturn aspects the ascendant in the rasi. In any event, the death occurred 
in Jupiter dasa Mars bhukti, and there is almost always danger when 2 
planets conjunct in the 8th house run their period. Had the period been 
Mars Jupiter rather than the reverse, there would have been less chance 
of death, because the dasa planet carries more weight. In such a case 
Mars would have been enhanced by the energy of benefic Jupiter, but as it 
was Jupiter was destroyed by the energy of Mars. Because the 8th house 
is as powerful as it is, it seems doubtful that suicide was the actual cause 
of death. M.M. was found in her apartment, apparently having swallowed 
an overdose of pills, but the death has always been controversial. 


DASA BHUKTI 
MO. DAY YR. MO. DAY YR. 


Lyndon B. Johnson 
08-27-1908 04:18 am. CST 


30°N17'98°W25' 


LYNDON BAINES JOHNSON 2’ 


POLITICS AND PRESIDENCY—This chart has all the essentials to 
produce a President. Mars, which rules commanders, is extraordinarily 
powerful. It is the yogakaraka for Cancer ascendant and is in a friendly 
sign conjunct within 5 degrees of benefic Jupiter. As with nearly all Pres- 
idents, the ascendant lord (the Moon) is aspected by Mars, in this case by 
close conjunction. Also, there is the Mercury Mars conjunction, which so 
many highly positioned politicians possess (see J.F.K. & R.N.). Finally, the 
ascendant lord is conjunct with the 5th (politics) lord, and the 5th lord is 
conjunct with benefic Jupiter. As far as career success, it has been 
assured because of the enormously powerful 10th ruler, Mars, which is 
conjunct with Jupiter. Also, Jupiter aspects the 10th house. It is quite 
interesting that in this horoscope there is little or no luck at all, due toa 
badly afflicted 9th house. Therefore L.B.J. had to work very hard for his 
benefits. However, as with most world famous persons, his poorvapunya 
is remarkable. This is revealed by the 5th lord being closely conjunct with 
Jupiter. 


UNSCRUPULOUS, AMORAL, NO RELIGION OR PHILOSOPHY—In 
the highly acclaimed book The Path To Power, Robert Caro has presented 
an account of L.B.J. as a man with no scruples or remorse whatever, and 
who would stop at nothing to achieve his goals and desires. According to 
Caro, L.B.J. displayed "a seemingly bottomless capacity for deceit, decep- 
tion, and betrayal. In every election in which he ran—not only in college 
but thereafter—he displayed a willingness to do whatever was necessary 
to win; a willingness so complete that even in the generous terms of polit- 
ical morality, it amounted to amorality." So intent on power and the Pres- 
idency was this man that he managed to completely tailor his politics to 
whatever was expedient to his cause of gaining power. In fact, he was 
totally unconcerned with philosophy, even of a political nature! Nor was 
he a religious man. These indications are due to the 9th lord (and 9th 
karaka), Jupiter, being ruined by its close conjunction with malefic Mars. 
Also, Saturn occupies the 9th, and though it is less malicious than usual 
because of its retrograde status, it is not at all beneficial to 9th house 
significations. The Mercury Mars conjunction, said to make one a thief or 
liar, has also contributed to L.B.J.'s complete disregard for the truth. 


DISTURBED RELATIONSHIP WITH FATHER, FATHER SUFFERS— 
The 9th house rules the father and is greatly afflicted, as described above. 
The Sun (karaka of the father) is conjunct with Mars and the 12th lord, 


274 and is thus harmed. L.B.J.'s father was a man of immense integrity (note 
the Sun in its own sign, Leo) and was very well loved by the people during 
his 10 years of service in the Texas legislature. But he was financially 
(and in most other ways) broken when Lyndon was only a small child. He 
never recovered and unfortunately endured a terrible life of hardship and 
poverty, practically unable to feed and clothe his family. L.B.J. greatly 
resented his father from early childhood, and the two never got along. 


COLLEGE EDUCATION—L.BJ. had no desire for higher education 
and wholeheartedly resisted his parents' wishes for him to attend college. 
He finally enrolled after realizing that it was an absolute necessity if he 
was to ever fulfill his intense ambitions. His education is described as 
having been quite mediocre. Although there is great interest in knowledge 
due to the strong 2nd house, the 9th, which rules higher education, is 
terribly weak and afflicted, as described above. L.B.J. majored in history 
and social science, but because the 2nd house is so strong, he starred in 
debate. 


EDUCATOR—L.BJ. is one of the few Presidents whose profession 
outside of politics was that of a schoolteacher. The 2nd house rules edu- 
cators and knowledge, and in this horoscope is occupied by 5 planets. 
Two of these are the intellectual planets, the Moon and Mercury. Also in 
the 2nd are yogakaraka Mars, ascendant lord Moon, and the atmakar- 
aka Sun. Because the 2nd is the house of speech, L.B.J. taught public 
speaking and debate and excelled in his job. 


IMAGINATION—Much of L.B.J.'s success was due to his remarkable 
imagination, demonstrated in his effecting complex schemes designed to 
manipulate himself into power. Imagination is a 2nd house matter, and 
as already explained, that house in L.B.J.'s horoscope is extremely power- 
ful. Further, the two planets of the mind, the Moon and Mercury, closely 
conjoin each other. Whenever these two planets aspect each other in a 
horoscope, the person will be extremely mental, analytical, and calculating. 


"BULL JOHNSON"—In Robert Caro's biography of L.BJ., Lyndon 
was described by a college classmate as "a man who just could not tell the 
truth." He was therefore named Bull Johnson at school; outside of his 
presence, of course the name turned into Bullshit Johnson. Truthfulness, 
as with imagination, is a 2nd house matter. In this horoscope the 2nd 
house is enormously powerful but also contains serious malefics. Perhaps 
most notable is the fact that the house holds the illustrious Mercury Mars 
conjunction described above. Also, the 2nd lord Sun is conjunct within 2 
degrees of malefic Mars. 


WEALTH—L.B.J. grew up in abject poverty, possibly worse than any 
other President. By the time he entered the White House his fortune was 
estimated by Life magazine at 14 million dollars, which, according to 


L.B.J.'s aides (privately) was grossly underestimated! He was at the time 2 
the richest man ever to hold the office of President. More significantly, 
after assuming office and announcing that all his business affairs would 
be placed in a blind trust, which he would totally ignore, he immediately 
installed private telephone lines in the white house directed to the Texas 
lawyers in charge of the affairs. It has been since reported that he person- 
ally managed these financial dealings on a daily basis down to every last 
detail. With five planets (the most personal and important ones at that) in 
the 2nd house, the interest in financial matters was intense! Also, Venus 
in the 12th house is an excellent placement for wealth in Hindu astrology. 
And with Venus and exalted Rahu in the 12th (expenses), L.B.J. was quite 
capable of retaining any wealth he earned. 


LUST FOR POWER—L.B.J.'s life from early childhood was devoted 
to his quest for power, attention, and dominance over others. Although 
this may in a sense be true of all Presidents, it is in most of the others not 
nearly so blatant and all-encompassing as with L.B.J. A good deal of the 
desire to rule others of course comes from the powerful 5th house, which 
the ancients called the house of kingship. But it cannot be ignored that 5 
planets occupy the sign of Leo, which, because it is the 5th sign of the 
zodiac, relates also to such significations. 


PHENOMENAL DETAIL & ORGANIZATIONAL ABILITY—L.B.J. 
worked doggedly all his life. During his Presidency, his aides worried 
ceaselessly about his health because of his 16-18 hour work days. He 
was enormously efficient and passed a phenomenal amount of 
legislature. In his ascending years L.B.J. was known by fellow Senators 
as the man who got absolutely anything he wanted. Daily work is seen 
from the 6th house, while efforts and desires are revealed by the 3rd. In 
this case, the 6th is of a powerful disposition. Although the 6th lord, 
Jupiter, is badly afflicted by the conjunction with Mars, other indications 
are quite beneficial, since Ketu as a malefic in the 6th is an excellent 
placement, and this Ketu is exalted in the navamsa! The 6th house is also 
aspected by Venus, Jupiter, and Saturn. And in this instance Saturn's 
aspect is not so detrimental as usual, because the 6th house can utilize 
such energy to advantage in terms of hard work. In any case, it is not 
merely the strong 6th house which has given such good results but also 
the excellent disposition of the 3rd. The most profound influence about 
the 3rd house is that its ruler, Mercury, has gained great power by the 
close conjunction with the benefic Moon (planets do not fight planetary 
wars with the luminaries, and in any case Mercury is a bit more than 1 
degree away from the Moon). Also, Mercury is exalted in the navamsa. 
Because of this powerful and well-disposed 3rd house, L.B.J. was able to 
fulfill his everyday desires. He did so, of course, only through diligent hard 
work and persistence, because he was not all blessed with luck, since 
the 9th house is so afflicted. The aspect of Saturn on the 3rd house, 
though bad for the significations of brothers and sisters, always makes 


76 worker. It is a combination of his strong 6th and 3rd houses which 
enabled L.B.J. to personally and with incredible efficiency attend to liter- 
ally hundreds of daily errands, both before and after the Presidency. 


DESTINY & POORVAPUNYA—L.B.J., even before his teenage years 
often announced that he was going to become President. When he was 32 


and still absurdly poor, he turned down a business offer (in reality a gift) 


which was clearly going to make him a millionaire within 2 or 3 years, 
because it would have linked him with oil interests. This, he felt, would 
kill his chances to become President! The powerful sense of destiny is 
revealed by the well-disposed 5th house, indicated by the 5th lord's close 
conjunction with benefic Jupiter. 


AMBITION, MOTIVATION, ENTHUSIASM—L.B.J. was of course tre- 
mendously ambitious, but what is also notable is that the energy and 
enthusiasm that he displayed often made him the center of attention and 
the life of the parties he attended. This is due to the extremely powerful 
3rd house, which has been detailed above under "Detail & Organizational 
Ability." The other life house (the 8th) is of mixed disposition, but on the 
positive side is aspected by five planets. 


EARLY DEATH—L.B.J. was only 64 when he died. Although the 8th 
house is energized by the aspect of five different planets, the ruler of the 
8th house is weakened because its ruler, Saturn (also ayush karaka) is 
retrograde. It is also in an enemy's sign in the navamsa. 


CHANDRA LAGNA—Note that in the rasa chart the 1st house is not 
at all well disposed, since there are no aspects to the house, and its ruler, 
the Moon, is so closely conjunct with Mercury. Mercury, though a benefic, 
is the lord of the evil 12th house. Also, the Moon is terribly harmed by its 
combustion with the Sun and its conjunction with Mars. Therefore, 
health was somewhat harmed, and L.B.J. must have lacked self-love and 
true self-esteem. However, from chandra lagna, the 1st house is enor- 
mously powerful. This is because five planets occupy the 1st and the 
ascendant lord, the Sun, is in its moolatrikona position. 


DASA BHUKTI HIGHLIGHTS 


MARS DASA—L.BJ. worked intensely during these years and made 
it to the House of Representaives by 1937. This was no small accom- 
plishment for one who had a mediocre education, was not an attorney, 
and was incredibly poor. Mars is yogakaraka, conjunct with Jupiter, and 
is ruling the career house (the 10th) and poorvapunya (the 5th). 


RAHU DASA—One year after this dasa began, L.B.J. was elected to 
the Senate, which was his goal the minute he entered the House 11 years 
earlier. Rahu, the planet of worldly benfits and desires is incredibly power- 
ful because it is exalted and conjunct with benefic Venus. 


RAHU MARS—Both Mars and Rahu are the most powerful planets 27 
in this horoscope. It is fitting, then, that at this time L.B.J. was elected 
President by the largest electorate vote up to that time. Mars, ruling the 
Sth (the house of kingship and past-life credit) indicates that L.B.J. was 
finally fulfilling his destiny. 


JUPITER DASA—Jupiter is a good planet for Cancer ascendant: 
however, in this horoscope the planet is ruined by its close conjunction 
with Mars and the Sun. Jupiter rules the 9th (luck) and 6th (health & 
daily work). Once this dasa began, difficulties were certain to arise. These 
years were of course extremely difficult, as L.BJ.'s popularity was devas- 
tated by his handling of the Viet Nam War. So bad were the effects that he 
did not seek re-election. He also died early on in this dasa. 


> 


23 16°43 
@ ass: 


BHUKTI 
MO. DAY YR. 


re ee 
Yo 12 26 Gi 
ey 07 27 62 


Jackie Onassis 


07-28-1929 02:30 p.m. DST 
A0°NS1 72°W23" 


JACKIE ONASSIS 27% 


This horoscope reveals how one may be so fortunate as to marry 
most powerful, worldly, and wealthy husbands and at the same time have 
great marital difficulties and be twice widowed. Also, Jackie O's tragedies 
involving miscarriages and stillbirths can be seen from her weak and 
afflicted 5th house. 


WEALTHY, WORLDLY, & POWERFUL HUSBANDS—What has pro- 
duced such intense results along these lines are essentially three factors. 
The 1st and by far most potent is that Rahu, which represents worldly 
desires and benefits, occupies the 7th house and is just approaching its 
stationary direct position. This influence often indicates an exceptionally 
worldly spouse. Next, the Moon occupies the 7th and is vargottama (in 
Aries, a sign described in the scriptures as an excellent placement for the 
Moon), which tends to indicate a special spouse. Although waning, the 
Moon rules the 10th house, thereby giving highly career-oriented partners. 
Finally, the 7th house ruler, Mars, occupies the house of gains and profits, 
and is well placed in that upachaya house. All in all, there is little mystery 
regarding J.O.'s acquisition of phenomenal partners. 


BENEFITS FROM PARTNERS' WEALTH—This signification is ruled 
by the 8th house, which in this case is of extremely mixed disposition. 
Although two benefics occupy the house, one of these—Venus, the house 
ruler—is in a weak final degree and is fallen in the nauamsa. Therefore, 
J.O.'s ability to enjoy her partner's money was tainted and subject to fluc- 
tuations (which may have depended on the particular dasa or bhukti in 
operation at the time). It has been written that J.F.K. was constantly cen- 
suring Jackie for overspending. This was not the case with Ari Onassis, 
who generously lavished wealth upon her. However, when Ari died, her 
inheritance was quite measly (relative to his wealth), since their marriage 
was supposedly nearing divorce. 


DISTURBED MARRIED LIFE & TWICE WIDOWED—Rahu in the 
7th always makes married life difficult, with constant ups and downs. In 
this case Rahu occupies an enemy's sign in both the rasi and nauamsa. 
And it is conjunct with the Moon, which is a known enemy to either node. 
That the Moon is waning, of course does not help marital relations. The 
weak disposition of Venus (the 7th house karaka), as already described 
above, has added further detriment to the matter. Aside from the power 
and wealth of her husbands, there are no indication's of benefits to J.O.'s 


30 marriages. There are two other points worth noting. The navamsa is 
actually a marriage chart, and if the birthtime is accurate, then the 7th 
house of this divisional chart is crucial in revealing married life. Assum- 
ing this birthtime is correct, Rahu occupies the 7th, again indicating bad 
results. It should also be noted that J.F.K.'s death may be seen in this 
horoscope, since he was killed during J.O.'s Moon dasa-Rahu bhukti. As 
has already been said, the two planets are bitter enemies. Since they are 
conjoined in the marriage house, such a period must produce bad effects 
relating to married life or the spouse. Though it would have been 
difficult to have exactly predicted the partner's death at such a time, it was 
certain that married life was about to undergo great difficulties and that 
the life of the spouse may have been in danger. 


TWO OUT OF FOUR PREGNANCIES FAIL—The 5th house in this 
horoscope is extremely weak. First of all, the ruler of the house, Saturn, is 
retrograde. Secondly, Saturn is fallen in the navamsa. Finally, the house 
itself is aspected by 2 malefics, Mars and Saturn. Mars aspects to the 5th 
often indicate miscarriages, stillbirths, or abortions. Saturn's aspect on 
its own house, Capricorn, energizes the house but is not at all conducive 
to the significations of children or childbirth. Also harmful is the 5th 
house in the navamsa holding a fallen planet (Venus). This influence is 
only operational assuming the birthtime is accurate within minutes. 


DIFFICULTIES WITH THE MOTHER—J.O. never got along well with 
her mother, and this may be seen by the 4th house ruler, Saturn, being 
retrograde and fallen in the navamsa. Further, the Moon (karaka of the 
mother) is waning and conjunct with its enemy, Rahu. However, the 
mother was certainly of benefit to Jackie, since Jupiter aspects the 4th 
house. Also, the 4th is energized by the aspects of the Sun and Mercury. 


WERNER ERHARD—WESTERN GURU, FOUNDER OF EST 


This horoscope is easily recognized as exceptional because of so many 
planets occupying their own, or exaltation, signs. It is also remarkable in the 
sense that the benefits indicated are both spiritual and worldly. 


SPIRITUALITY—Whenever the Sun (atmakaraka) or ascendant is 
aspected by Saturn, there is a tendency towards asceticism or spiritual 
life. In this case, both the Sun and ascendant lord (Venus) are aspected by 
Saturn. The Sun Saturn aspect always indicates a strong sense of respon- 
sibility and integrity. In this case these qualities are heightened because 
of the special condition caused by the Sun occupying its own sign while 
Saturn is in its moolatrikona. To add even greater spiritual strength, 
Saturn rules the 9th house. Therefore the Sun and ascendant lord are 
also aspected by the 9th lord. Further, when analyzing the 9th ho'use it is 
seen that the ruler, Saturn, is involved in this yoga with the Sun and is 
also in its moolatrikona, both in the rasi and in the nauamsa (i.e., var- 
gottama). Saturn is receiving an incredible amount of energy, since it is 
aspected by four planets: Jupiter, Venus, the Sun, and Mars. The aspect 
from Jupiter is of course especially spiritual. Also note that gnanakaraka 
Ketu is exalted in both the rasiand navamsa. 

BRILLIANCE, TEACHING, & KNOWLEDGE—The brilliance indicated 
in this horoscope cannot be overstated. Mercury, the planet of intellect, is 
within 4 degrees of its highest exaltation point. It occupies the auspicious 
Sth (house of the mind). This reveals a highly original, objective, and ana- 
lytical mind, especially because there are no aspects interfering with the 
oth house. Regarding the educating tendencies of W.E. and his preoccu- 
pation with knowledge of every kind, note the enormous power of the 2nd 
house, which governs such matters. Its well-disposed ruler, Mercury, has 
already been described, and the house itself holds exalted Ketu. Ketu is 
just approaching its stationary direct position (apprx. 1 hour away) and is 
aspected by Jupiter and Mars. This strong 2nd house has also made W.E. 
a very fine speaker and debater. Regarding the afflicted Moon, which is 
also a planet of the mind, this is responsible for W.E.'s disturbed peace of 
mind, which especially characterized his earlier years, when he was so 
intent on realizing enlightenment. 


SUCCESS & FAME—Note the 10th house occupied by Saturn in its 
mooltrikona sign. Saturn is uargottama and powerfully aspected by Jupi- 


A” 


Werner Erhard 


09-05-1935 11:25 p.m. DST 
39°N57'75°W10' 


ter, Venus, the Sun, and Mars. Saturn in the 10th, when well disposed or 2f 
when the rest of the horoscope is strong, is of immense benefit to one's 
career as a leader of the masses. In this case, Saturn is the raja yogakar- 
aka for Taurus ascendant, since it rules the 9th and 10th houses. Its 
close aspect with the Sun is also of great benefit because both planets are 

in their own signs. Regarding the maturity of planets, Saturn gives its full 
results in the 36th year, 1971 in this case. It was in that year that W.E. 
founded his EST organization. Also, regarding fame, note that an exalted 
planet (Ketu) occupies the 1st house in the navamsa. 


FOUL LANGUAGE—Malefics in the 2nd produce this effect. Ketu, 
even when exalted, gives this tendency. Ketu is aspected by Mars and Jupi- 
ter. Many years ago the press widely publicized his use of foul language 
as a technique in the EST program. 


CHANGE OF CAREERS—Whenever the 12th lord aspects the 10th 
house, there will be difficulty finding one's proper dharma, and a ten- 
dency to adopt many different careers. The 12th lord, Mars, aspects 
Saturn in the 10th. W.E. was 36 before settling into his final career as 
EST trainer. Were it not for the 10th house (which specifically rules 
dharma) being so powerful, there would have been continuous change of 
professions throughout the life. 


MARRIED LIFE—By far the most afflicted signification in this 
chart is married life. The 7th house is occupied by the Moon in its fallen 
sign (though past its highest degree of neecha) and is aspected by both 
Mars and Saturn. Mars in the 7th, even in its own sign, is detrimental for 
such matters. It is also an indication of Kujadosha. Further, Venus, the 
karaka of the 7th, is retrograde, combust the Sun, and aspected by 
Saturn. Married life has been rough both times, and the 2nd divorce pro- 
ceedings have been under way for more than a year at this writing. 
Divorce was an obvious eventuality once the Moon dasa began in April of 
1981—especially once the dasa proceeded into Moon Mars, the two con- 
junct planets in the 7th house. 


DASA BHUKTI HIGHLIGHTS 


KETU DASA—When this period began W.E.'s relationship with his 
family (his mother in particular) deteriorated and brought on one of the 
most unhappy periods of his life. The 2nd house rules family, and Ketu 
(or Rahu) in that house causes family separations and great unhappiness. 


MOON DASA—As already mentioned, this period brought the end 
of W.E.'s 2nd marriage. The Moon is terribly afflicted, as it is in its fallen 
sign, conjunct with Mars, and aspected by Saturn. Since the Moon is the 
most personal influence and is ruling the 3rd house (desires and efforts), 
the entire Moon period promises to be quite a struggle. In 1985 the EST 


84 training was retired to make way for an improvement on the original 
training. However, enrollments into this new program have been so low 
that half of the organizational staff has been laid off. It is interesting how 
the horoscope of the leader of an organization has so much bearing on an 
entire network. This same sort of effect can also be seen in the horoscopes 
of the U.S. Presidents J.F.K., R.N., and LBJ., who, after they attained office, 
had to endure terribly difficult planetary periods, which thus affected an 
entire nation. 


RETROSPECTIVE NOTE—Although the beginning of the Moon dasa brought tre- 
mendous difficulties, Erhard’s subsequent success has been quite considerable. This is 
likely due to the fact that even though the Moon is afflicted nearly all of the other planets are 
extremely powerful. Thus, in their bhuktis they have produced good effects. 


FRANCIS FORD COPPOLA—A PRODUCER WITH EXPENSES 


FILM PRODUCER—The 3rd house rules fine arts, and when it is 
well-disposed and significantly emphasized in the birthchart, a performer 
is generally indicated. When the house is exceptionally powerful, the per- 
son may desire to become either a director or producer, or he will begin as 
a performer and later ascend to the leadership position. This happens to 
an extent because the 3rd house governs detail work and organizational 
ability, which directing or producing entails. This horocope, because of 
the powerful 3rd house, is a typical chart for a director or producer. Note 
the two benefics Venus and Jupiter in the 3rd house. Even better, the 3rd 
house ruler, Saturn, is in a kendra, vargottama, and conjoining the lords 
of the 9th and 10th houses. 


SUCCESS & FAME—Both the 1st and 10th houses are powerful. 
Although the ruler of the 1st, Jupiter, is in a weak final degree, it is con- 
junct with Venus. More importantly, the 1st house is occupied by the 5th 
lord, Mars, which is a good planet for Sagittarius ascendant. Also, Mars is 
in a friendly sign in both the rasi and navamsa. The 10th house is even 
more powerful than the 1st. At first glance the 10th lord, Mercury, is 
noted to be neecha, but it is also retrograde, which weakens this negative 
effect. More significantly, Mercury as 10th lord forms a rajayoga by its 
conjunction with the 9th lord the Sun. And in this case Mercury is far 
enough away to escape combustion, especially as it is separating from the 
Sun (i.e., retrograding). On top of all this, the 10th house is aspected by 3 
planets: its own lord, Mercury: the auspicious 9th lord the Sun, and 
Saturn. It is also noted that hot or cruel planets such as the Sun and 
Saturn generally energize the 10th house in a beneficial way rather than 
cause their usual destruction. This is because the upachaya houses, 
which welcome malefics, are more capable of utilizing such energy for 
certain of their significations. The extremely close aspect (same degree) of 
Mars as the 12th lord on Mercury indicates the probability of many ups 
and downs in the career, or career changes. 


WEALTH & EXPENSES—Great wealth is indicated by the 2nd lord, 
Saturn, being in a kendra, cojoining the lords of the 9th and 10th houses. 
This is an extremely fortunate condition, and wealth must therefore 
result. On the negative side, Saturn is aspected by the 12th lord, Mars, 
which will cause financial ups and downs. However, the most intense det- 
riment in this chart is the tendency to meet with huge expenses and to 


K 


PR a77r 
Omar 
9 pieear 


Francis Ford Coppola 
04-07-1939 01:38 am. EST 
42°N20’ 83°WO3' True Node 


04 07 39 


07 22 39 


O7 21 58 


G 


O7 21 75 


11 19 & 


a 
ae 
eae 
ae 
ee 
ee 
fees ates 
eee | 
——aaaers 
hs 
Le 
are 
a 
=a 
Nee A all 
fees ae ot 
20 

2) 


O7 21 82 


| jolelel~belalalvio/ | 


spend whatever money is gained. This is most obvious due to the 12th 2 
house (expenses) being occupied by the neecha Moon. Note that the 
Moon is in the highest degree of its fall. This is a most intense influence; 
therefore even the Moon's placement in its own sign in the nauarnsa has 
not much neutralized the affliction. F.F.C. has made phenomenal amounts 
of money from his movies (The Godfather, etc.), but he has also managed 
to wind up in deep financial trouble after investing all of his own money 
in his private film studio, Zoetrope. Also, F.F.C. is notorious for greatly 
exceeding the budgets on his films. His movie Apocalyse Now took some 
four years to make, at obviously great expense. Two other films One From 
the Heart and Cotton Club ran into multimillion-dollar budgets and never 
approached breaking even. It is also detrimental that Saturn aspects the 
12th lord, Mars. 


FAMOUS YOUNGER SISTER—F.F.C.'s famous sister Talia Shire 
(Rocky, The Godfather) can be seen by the two benefics Venus and Jup- 
iter in the 3rd house. 


MO. DAY YR MO. DAY YR. 
== —_—— 
a ees 


ee 


01-26-1925 06:30 a.m. EST 
41°N30°8 3 W442" 


PAUL NEWMAN 


GREAT PHYSICAL BEAUTY-3 benefics occupy the 1st house. The 
ascendant lord, Jupiter, is in its own sign. 


CONFIDENCE & STRONG EGO—Although the Sun is afflicted by 
its conjunction with Ketu, the 1st house is in an enormously positive 
state because of the 3 benefics in the ascendant. 


SEX SYMBOL—Rahu in the 8th, even though in the Moon's sign is 
exceptionally powerful because it is has just begun its forward motion 
some 6 hours after being stationary direct. The 8th house is also aspected 
by the auspicious 9th lord Sun, the yogakaraka for Sagittarius 
ascendant. 


LOVE MARRIAGE—In India, where marriages are arranged by the 
parents, there are certain horoscopes which reveal what are called "love 
marriages." This means that the person is likely to many early and purely 
for love instead of by arrangement. This often occurs when the 7th lord 
conjuncts Venus, and such is the case with this horoscope. Married life indi- 
cations for P.N. are mixed, but on the whole are extremely fortunate. At 
first glance married life seems incredibly blissful, as the 7th lord, Mercury, 
is hemmed in tightly by 2 benefics (it is not fighting a war with Venus, 
since it is slightly out of range of the 1 degree planetary war zone). Also, 
Venus, the karaka of the 7th house, is extremely fortunate because of its 
conjunction with 2 benefics (Mercury & Jupiter). Further, the 7th house 
is aspected by its own lord (Mercury) and 2 other benefics. The great 
interfering aspect, however, is that Saturn aspects the 7th lord, Mercury, 
to the exact degree! This aspect, because of the intensity of orb, has 
caused one divorce in the life. However, P.N., according to interviews, is 
extremely happy in his 2nd marriage. That he would many an artist or 
celebrity such as Joanne Woodward can be seen by the 7th lord being 
closely conjunct with Venus (art) and Jupiter (fortune). 


LITTLE HAPPINESS FROM FATHER—Aside from possible spiritual 
effects, one of the worst possible influences a planet is subject to is a close 
conjunction with the "otherworldly" Ketu. In such a case the conjoined 
planet is quite destroyed or "swallowed up" by Ketu, and the person has 
no control over the significations governed by that planet. In this horo- 
scope, the Sun as karaka of father and ruler of the 9th house (father) is 
conjunct with Ketu. It is not within 3 or 4 degrees but is still close enough 


2 


290 to receive great damage. There is some help due to the Sun being exalted 
in the navamsa, but this is certainly not enough to neutralize the afflic- 
tion. Also, the Sun in the rasi occupies an enemy's sign. P.N.'s father died 
relatively young, when Paul was only 17 and before a happy relationship 
could be established. P.N. felt that his father considered him a disap- 
pointment. He has called the fact that he never got the chance to prove 
himself to his father one of the "great agonies" of his life. The destruc- 
tiveness of Ketu is thus very well revealed in this birthchart because, con- 
sidering the phenomenal disposition of the 1st house, it is almost absurd 
that P.N. would not be favored by everyone, especially his own family! 


ACTING CAREER—The all-important Moon occupies the 3rd house 
(fine arts). The ruler of the 3rd, Saturn, is in its absolute highest degree of 
exaltation, thereby giving exceptional performing talent. Saturn is fallen 
in the navamsa which is of course detrimental. This indicates that dur- 
ing Saturn periods there would be certain miseries simultaneous with 
benefits. But whenever a planet occupies its highest degree of exaltation 
or fall, the effects are most intense (for better or worse), despite any con- 
tradictory influences. Also note that the 10th lord Mercury is conjunct 
with Venus, the planet of art. And Venus is extremely well disposed 
because of its conjunction with two benefics and its placement in its 
moolatrikona sign in the navamsa. 


SPORTS CAR RACING—This delineation is of course purely spec- 
ulative, but it is felt that such tendencies are due to the exceptionally 
powerful 3rd house. The reasoning being that the 3rd house governs not 
only short distance travel but also energy, movement, enthusiasm, ex- 
citement, and courage. It may also be that the 4th house and Venus, 
which are quite powerful, have some bearing on the matter, since convey- 
ances are a Venus and 4th house signification. Note that the 4th ruler, 
Jupiter, is in a kendra in its own sign and closely conjunct with two 
benefics. Venus is also conjunct with 2 benefics and is in its moolatri- 
kona sign in the navamsa. Around town, however, P.N. unostentatiously 
drives souped up Volkswagens. 


SUFFERING ON ACCOUNT OF CHILDREN—Mars in the 5th house 
is generally a very poor placement regarding children. Mars is in its own 
sign, Aries, and is vargottama: however, it is also in the weak and fateful 
1st degree and is aspected by Saturn. P.N.'s son died of a drug overdose at 
the age of 28. 


MAHATMA GANDHI: 


ORATORICAL ABILITY—Obviously a brilliant speaker capable of 
affecting huge crowds, M.G. was in his early career years quite petrified of 
public speaking. During his first case as an attorney he found himself 
completely incapable of handling the assignment due to shyness in the 
courtroom. Thus this horoscope is an excellent example of the manner in 
which a raja-yogakaraka planet which is at the same time a malefic 
gives its results: Saturn posited in the 2nd (speech) rules the 4th and 5th 
houses and thereby takes on great power but retains its restrictive Sat- 
urnian nature. Therefore M.G. was terribly shy of speaking during the 
early part of his life, but as time passed he was able to develop into a rare 
and powerful orator. It must also be noted that the 2nd lord, Mars, is 
exceptionally well aspected by a 2 degree conjunction with Venus and a 2 
degree aspect from Jupiter. 


FAME & LEADERSHIP—Both the Moon and Rahu in the 10th 
create a successful career, fame, and the tendency to sway the public. The 
Moon in the 10th in this case occupies its own sign. In terms of leader- 
ship, Hindu scriptures relate that a Venus Mars conjunction in any ken- 
dra makes one a "leader of his family, clan, or village." In this case the 
Venus Mars conjunction is in the 1st house and is very closely aspected 
by Jupiter. In any case, the 1st house would have to be considered 
extremely powerful, with three planets occupying, and all aspected by Jupi- 
ter. Further, from chandra lagna the 10th house is extraordinarily pow- 
erful. Note that Jupiter is in the 10th house and that the ruler of the 
house, Mars, conjoins Venus and Mercury and receives the beneficial 
aspect of Jupiter. 


CELIBACY—Hindu astrologers consider it basically impossible for 
anyone with the passionate Venus Mars conjunction to become a san- 
yassin (one who renounces worldly activities i.e. sex). However, because 
the Venus and Mars conjunction (both sexual planets) is so closely 
aspected by Jupiter, M.G. was able to transcend the senses. It may also be 
mentioned that whenever Venus is aspected by Jupiter, the person will 
have high morals and ethics regarding married life and love affairs. M.G. 
was of course a noted celibate for many years after the birth of his 
children. 


CAREER AS ATTORNEY—Note the Mercury Mars conjunction (wide 
though it be), which gives a practical nature and leads one to technical 


BHUKTI 
MO. DAY YR. 


10-02-1869 07:33 a.m. IST 
21°N40' 69°EA2* 


fields such as engineering, law, etc. Because of the extraordinarily well 29: 
disposed 2nd house, M.G. was famous for his truthfulness, even though 

the Mercury Mars conjunction tends towards a political or lying nature. 
Also, the conjunction is aspected by both Venus and Jupiter, which neu- 
tralizes the affliction. 


FASTING—M.G. was quite famous for the fasts he undertook for 
great periods of time in order to effect a change of behavior in his people. 
Note the ascetic-natured Saturn (raja-yogakaraka in this case) in the 
2nd house (food). 


FULFILLS DESIRES—M.G. fulfilled the enormous and seemingly 
impossible desire of freeing his people from British rule. The main desire 
house, the 11th, is only of mixed disposition, since it is aspected by Jupi- 
ter, but its lord, the Sun, occupies the evil 12th house. However, the 
other 2 desire houses (3 & 7) are very strong. The 3rd house is aspected 
by its own lord, Jupiter. The 7th house is occupied by benefic Jupiter and 
is aspected by 3 planets: Venus, Mercury, and Mars. And Mars in this case 
aspects its own house. Further, the 3rd lord in the 7th constitutes a 
desire lord in a desire house. 


VIOLENT DEATH—M.G. was assassinated in Jupiter dasa Venus 
bhukti. Because the planets are so closely aspecting each other, one might 
expect the absolute best of all possible effects. However, the problem is 
that both planets are exactly 2 degrees away from malefic and violent 
Mars! Were it not for the Mars interference, this dasa bhukti would have 
been enormously beneficial. 


SPIRITUALITY—Mercury and Venus, as the lords of 2 moksha 
houses (the 8th & 12th), occupy the ascendant and both are aspected by 
Jupiter. Also, Venus as ascendant lord receives the Jupiter aspect. The 
Sun in the 12th house is delineated as a "sinful" placement because the 
Sun as karaka of the 9th, is ruined in the evil 12th. But it nevertheless 
often gives a very strong spiritual bent and an interest in moksha. This is 
because the Sun is atmakaraka (indicator of the soul) and the 12th is of 
course the house of moksha. 


We 
Oo sor 


a5" 238° 37° 


Muhammad AL 
01-17-1942 06:35 p.m. CST 
38°N1I5’ 85°W46 


MUHAMMED ALI 2¢ 


CAREER IN SPORTS—Sports is ruled by the 5th house and Mars. 
In this horoscope Jupiter aspects the 5th house. The 5th lord, Mars occu- 
pies the 10th house, where it receives dik bala, directional strength. It is 
also empowered by its strong placement in its moolatrikona sign, Aries. 
Further, Mars aspects its own house, the fifth. Mars is also conjunct with 
Saturn, but is not so much harmed because Saturn is both 18 degrees 
away and retrograde at that. The only significant negative effect is Mars 
being neecha in the navamsa, but this evidently has not been powerful 
enough to cause much damage. 


SUCCESS—tThe 10th house is extremely powerful, since it is occu- 
pied by Mars, which alone causes rajayoga because of its rulership of the 
Sth and 10th houses. Further, Mars is in its moolatrikona sign and receiv- 
ing dik bala strength. Saturn in the 10th is also a very fine placement for 
career success if the rest of the horoscope is well disposed. And Saturn is 
in no way worse off (in terms of 10th house affairs) for being retrograde. Re- 
garding Ali's worldwide fame and status, the 1st house has played a very im- 
portant part. Note that four planets aspect the 1st thus energizing the house 
and strengthening confidence, stamina, and the ability to be recognized in 
life. Adding even more power is the ruler of the 1st (Moon) aspecting its own 
house. Between this aspect and the fact that three of the four aspecting 
planets are benefics a very special condition is created. Ali's feelings about 
his own power and speciality are a certainty of this chart. Hence all the 
boasting and bragging and "I am the greatest" declarations. Success and 
fame is always forthcoming when the 1st and the 10th are both strong. 


POETRY AND SPEECH—Whenever the mental planets Moon and Mer- 
cury aspect each other an extremely communicative personality is indi- 
cated. In this case the aspect is stronger for being close to exact. More impor- 
tantly, the ruler of the 2nd house (speech, poetry etc.) is conjunct with three 
benefics—Moon, Mercury, and Venus. Therefore the indications for writing, 
public speaking, and poetry are quite intense. Of course the Mercury Venus 
conjunction also gives lyrical or musical ability. 


MARRIED LIFE—tThere are both positive and negative indications in 
this chart regarding married life. On the positive side Ali's lovers will be ex- 
tremely beautiful due to the three benefics in the 7th. However, the chart is 
blatant that there will be at least more than one marriage. Numerous mar- 


riages (and/or very serious intimate relationships) are indicated first of all 
because there are so many planets in the 7th. More importantly, two of the 
four planets are the Moon and Mercury which are "changeable" or moody in- 
fluences. Aside from this there is the negative influence of Saturn, ruler of 
the 7th, in its neecha or fallen sign Aries. And Saturn aspects the 7th. 
Thought the aspect is to its own house it does nothing but harm to a sensi- 
tive area such as marital happiness. Regarding the number of marriages, it 
is actually fortunate in this case that the ruler of the 7th is retrograde. This 
slows down Ali's desire to formally bind his relationships and affairs. It also 
usually indicates marriage later than normal (i.e. late twenties or early thir- 
ties). The numerous benefics in he 7th also reveal a highly passionate na- 
ture, the ability to obtain the females he desires, and "skill in the art of sex- 
ual pleasures." 


HEALTH—tThe 6th house is slightly weakened though not in an ex- 
treme way. Jupiter, ruler of the 6th is retrograde and in an enemy's sign thus 
sapping the energy of the house. However the mental ailment Ali now suffers 
is indicated more by the condition of the Moon, the planet ruling the breast 
and brain. The Moon is situated between Mercury and the Sun. The aspect 
of the Sun is malefic even though the planets are not so close as to be com- 
bust. The conjunction to Mercury is, in fact, more damaging because Mer- 
cury rules the evil 12th house. Aspects from the lord of the 8th or 12th, when 
they are extremely close by degree, are in most cases quite devastating. 


MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR. 2 


POWERFUL DREAMS & AMBITIONS—The 11th house (ambitions, 
dreams & desires) is occupied by two powerful benefics, Venus and the 
Moon. Further, both planets are exalted in the navamsa! The ruler of the 
11th is in the auspicious 9th house and aspected by Jupiter (though it is 
also aspected by Mars and is fallen in the navamsa). Not only does the 
well-disposed 11th house indicate that M.L.K. would have most expansive 
and far-reaching of dreams, but also that he could actually realize them. 
The other two desire houses are also exceptionally powerful. The 7th is 
aspected by Jupiter, while its ruler, Venus, is in the 11th, conjunct with 
the benefic Moon and exalted in the nauamsa. Also note that the 7th lord 
in the 11th constitutes a desire lord in a desire house. The 3rd house is 
malefically aspected by Saturn, but its ruler, Mercury, is in the 10th 
house (a kendra) and is conjunct with the auspicious 5th lord. M.L.K.'s "I 
have a dream" speech is one of the highlights of his career. Also, against 
ridiculous odds his desire to see equality for black Americans went 
quite a ways towards fulfillment. 


GREAT ORATOR—The ascendant lord is similar to the Moon in 
that its house placement is an area of great vitality and interest. In this 
case the ascendant lord, Mars (a good planet for Aries ascendant), occu- 
pies the 2nd house (speech). The harshness of Mars is neutralized by its 
retrograde status, and in any case retrograde malefics energize a house 
and give beneficial results. As for Rahu in a friendly sign in the 2nd, it 
ruins family life and happiness but gives an excellent imagination. The 
ruler of the 2nd is Venus, which, as already described, is extraordinarily 
well disposed. M.L.K. was of course an enormously moving and effective 
speaker. 


SPIRITUAL LEADER—The indications for this signification can 
easily be seen, since the spiritual planet Jupiter occupies the 1st house as 
ruler of the 9th. Saturn, ruler of the 10th (career), is posited in the 9th 
(religion & philosophy). Saturn is of mixed disposition, though, since it 
occupies a trikona and is aspected by Jupiter but is harmfully aspected 
by Mars, occupies a weak degree, and is fallen in the navamsa. Saturn in 
the 9th can either signify no religion at all or very deep religious beliefs. In 
this case the overall horoscope is quite spiritual, but the somewhat 
afflicted Saturn in the 9th reveals a detachment from traditional religious 
rituals and beliefs. Regarding leadership, note the Sun as 5th lord (yoga- 
karaka) in the 10th, where it receives dik bala, directional strength. It is 


MO. DAY YR. 


MO. DAY YR 


Martin Luther King 
01-15-1929 12:00 p.m. CST 
33°N45' 84°W23' 


also empowered by its conjunction with benefic Mercury. The 5th lord in 2: 
the 10th is an excellent placement, indicating the performance of good 
deeds which benefit society. It is also conducive to practicing spiritual 
techniques and making holy pilgrimages, etc. 


FAME & SUCCESS—M.L.K.'s auspicious career is written all over 
this horoscope. The excellent placement of Jupiter as the 9th lord in the 
lst promises great benefits. Pooruapunya is extremely strong and is con- 
nected to career activities because of the 5th lord's position in the 10th. 
The Sun in the 10th is well aspected (by its conjunction with Mercury), 
and is receiving dik Bala, directional strength. The Sun is also ()argot- 
tama, while Mercury in the 10th is in its own sign in the navamsa. 


POWERFUL DHARMA—The 10th house specifically rules dharma, 
while the 1st, 5th, and 9th, which correspond to fire houses, are dharma 
houses in general. All of these houses are on the whole very strong. 


EARLY DEATH—The 8th house is extremely weak because its ruler, 
Mars, is retrograde in the weak and fateful final degree of a sign. It is also 
conjunct with malefic Rahu. Further, Ketu occupies the 8th in an ene- 
my's sign (Rahu's enemies are generally considered Ketu's also). Next, it is 
relevant that the weak and afflicted Mars is ruling the 1st house. Finally, 
note that ayush karaka Saturn (ruler of longevity) is aspected by Mars 
and is fallen in the nauamsa. 


BHUKTI 
MO. DAY YR. 


DASA 
MO. DAY YR. 


Jimmy Carter 
10-01-1924 7:00 am. CST 
32°NO2° 84°W24' 


tioned that whenever a planet occupies its own or exaltation sign in the 
1st house, it reveals that one has been born to a wealthy or refined family 
and has had a good start in life. In this case Saturn is exalted in the 1st 
house. J.C. was born into a wealthy family and later inherited his father's 
agricultural business (regarding agriculture, note the Moon in the 1st). 


RELIGION—The atmakaraka Sun is posited in the 12th house, 
thereby giving very strong moksha tendencies. The ascendant lord, 
Venus, is conjunct with the 9th and 12th lord, Mercury. Rahu in the 
10th indicates holy pilgrimages, and because it automatically places 
mokshakaraka Ketu in the 4th (heart), it produces good spiritual results. 
Also, whenever ascetic-natured Saturn is in any way associated with the 
Sun, the ascendant, or the ascendant lord, spiritual tendencies are 
generally indicated. In this case Saturn occupies the ascendant. J.C. has 
reported that he underwent a spiritual conversion experience in 1967 
and has been a devout born-again Christian ever since. 


FOREIGN AFFAIRS—J.C., with his atmakaraka Sun in the 12th 
(foreign lands), found himself especially enmeshed in dealings with Iran 
during his Presidency. It is interesting to note that Mahatma Gandhi, 
who shares the same 12th house placement of the Sun, was also deeply 
involved in dealings with foreigners (the British). In Gandhi's case the 
12th house Sun is unaspected, and the 12th lord, Mercury, is conjunct 
with Venus and Mars and aspected by Jupiter. In Carter's case The 12th 
house Sun is aspected by Mars, while the 12th lord is in a weak final 
degree and aspected by both Mars and Venus. 


MILITARY CAREER & SPORTS—J.C. graduated from the U.S. Naval 
Acadamy in Annapolis, fulfilling a childhood dream, and then spent some 
7 successful years in military service. His desire was to make a career in 
the Navy as Chief of Naval Operations. However, in 1953 his father died, 
and he then decided to return home and forego such a profession. Suc- 
cess in military work is seen, as a very powerful and well-aspected Mars 
sits in the 5th house (past-life credit). J.C. has also always been a sports 
enthusiast, another Mars and 5th house signification. 


SATURN'S FULL EFFECTS—Saturn gives its full effects in the 36th 
year, which in this case finished in Oct. 1960. J.C. ran for his first elected 
public office at the age of 377. Saturn is the best planet for this ascendant 
and rules the 5th house (destiny & politics). 


DASA BHUKTI HIGHLIGHTS 


KETU DASA—It was in Ketu dasa (Venus bhukti) that J.C. became 
President. Ketu is in an angular house in a friend's sign and is exalted in 
the navamsa. Further, many Hindu astrologers consider it crucial to ana- 
lyze the dispositors of Rahu and Ketu when attempting to delineate their 


effects. In this horoscope, Ketu is in Capricorn, whose ruler, Saturn, is 30: 
exalted in the 1st and conjunct with the 10th lord benefic Moon. 


VENUS DASA—Venus, as ruler of the 1st house posited in the llth, 
would ordinarily promise a powerful and auspicious dasa. But because 
Venus occupies the weak 1st degree and is so closely aspected by Mars, 
such is definitely not the case. This period is adverse for fame, honor, 
respect, health, general well-being and all 1st house matters. 


A NOTE FOR THE FUTURE 


VENUS DASA MARS BHUKTI begins in July 1988 and runs until 
September 1989, and indicates a dangerous period. This is because 
Venus, as ascendant lord, occupies the weak and fateful 1st degree and is 
closely aspected (within 3 degrees) by malefic-natured Mars. There is thus 
the distinct possibility of his developing a severe health problem or falling 
victim to an accident or act of violence. As Venus also rules the 8th house, 
the life force is threatened. It is advised that somewhat prior to this dasa 
bhukti J.C. should wear a high-quality, good-sized diamond, and chant 
the Venus mantra the recommended number of repetitions. Also, if 
desired, fasting (taking juices, fruits, or water) could be done on Fridays, 
the day ruled by Venus. 


/@ | 11 27 30 
Bo 


07-18-1921 04:00 p.m. EST 
40°N02'81°W35' 


JOHN GLENN 3C 


This horoscope is an excellent example of a chart where all 3 of the 
travel houses are powerful. Travel is seen from the 3rd (energy & movement), 
9th (long journeys), and 12th (remote foreign countries). 


TRAVEL—The ruler of the 3rd house, Saturn, is closely conjunct with 
the great benefic Jupiter. This is extremely fortunate. Further, the 3rd 
house is aspected by Mars and the Sun. Although these planets are malefics 
the 3rd house is energized by the aspects for two reasons. First, the 3rd 
is an upachaya house where malefic energy is welcomed (for all 3rd house 
significations except siblings). Second, both planets carry positive energy 
because they are "functional benefics" due to the houses they rule. Thus 
the 3rd house is very strong. The 9th house is occupied by the Sun, the 
atmakaraka or soul indicator, making long distance travel a vital interest. The 
ruler of the 9th, the Moon, is especially powerful since it is almost full and is 
very closely aspected by benefic Mercury. The 12th house, though unoccupied, 
is strong because the ruler of the house, Venus, is angular and posited in 
Taurus—its own sign. 


DESIRES, DREAMS, AND AMBITIONS—The 11th house is extremely 
powerful. Rahu, the planet representing insatiable desires and worldly 
power, is exalted in the 11th. It is also exalted in the nauamsa giving more 
benefit still, The ruler of the 11th, Mercury, though retrograde and posited in 
the evil 8th house, is occupying its swakshetra or own sign. More impor- 
tantly, it is aspected very tightly by the benefic, bright, yogakaraka Moon. 
Mercury is therefore in an extraordinary condition. John Glenn would easily 
fulfill major goals and desires. 


FAME AND SUCCESS—Both the 1st and 10th houses are well forti- 
fied. The ruler of the 1st, Mars, is aspected by the bright, yogakaraka Moon. 
And by Mercury (occupying its own sign Gemini). It is also uargottama, oc- 
cupying the same sign in the nauamsa. The 10th house is occupied by the 
two powerful planets Jupiter and Saturn. This alone indicates exceptional 
career energy. Jupiter rules the 5th house, Pooruapunya or past life credit, 


DASA BHUKTI HIGHLIGHTS 


thus indicating that Glenn would gain a certain amount of career success 
due to efforts from previous lifetimes. Also, the ruler of the 10th, the Sun, is 
posited in the best house of a chart, the auspicious 9th. Success or fame is 
blatant. 


POLITICS—tThe ruler of the 5th (politics) occupies the career house. 
Mars, the planet of rulers and commanders is extremely strong due to the 
powerful aspects described above. Further, there is the most typical 
aspect of politicians, the Mercury Mars conjunction. The Sun, planet of 
Government, rules the career house and occupies the auspicious 9th. 
Finally, Saturn in the 10th, according to ancient Hindu scriptures 
indicates one who may be "leader of his village." 


BABA RAM DAS (RICHARD ALPERT)—WESTERN GURU <¢ 


SPIRITUALITY—This chart reveals an extraordinarily spiritual being 
because of several obvious factors. First off, Venus, the yogakaraka for 
Gemini ascendant, is in the 9th house in a friendly sign, and it is vargot- 
ta ma. Next, Jupiter occupies the 1st house and is aspected by the other 
spiritual planet, Saturn, which happens to be ruling the 9th house. Ketu, 
the planet of discrimination (moksha-karaka and gnana-karaka), is 
exalted in the house of the heart (the 4th). The 9th ruler, Saturn, is of 
course aspected by Jupiter. The disposition of the 9th house alone indi- 
cates that R.D. would easily receive any kind of higher knowledge he 
desires, also that he could attain a great guru and be favored by such a 
one. Then there is the extremely beneficial situation where a trinal lord 
occupies a trinal house. Venus, as ruler of the 5th is in the 9th. This 
always creates either phenomenal luck or a spiritual leader. Because 
Venus is aspected by Mars, the luck is tainted. This horoscope is extremely 
typical of a highly spiritual man and a religious or spiritual teacher. 


SUCCESS & FAME—The power of this 10th house is vast. The 
Sun is very well placed and receives dik bala in the 10th. Rahu in the 
10th, unless afflicted, always gives a great career and tends towards 
dealing with the masses. On the day of this birth, Rahu was just 
resuming its retrograde motion and was practically stationary, thus 
becoming empowered with great strength. Jupiter in the 1st house is one 
of the finest positions possible for overall success, since it aspects such 
auspicious houses as the Sth, 7th, and 9th. It may be mentioned, 
however, that the Sun is harmed by its close conjunction with malefic 
Rahu. Therefore self- confidence is somewhat spoiled. 


HOLY PILGRIMAGES—Holy pilgrimages are seen from both the 9th 
and 10th houses. The ancient sages are emphatic about Rahu in the 
10th giving good spiritual effects and causing one to take dips in the 
sacred river Ganges. Aside from Rahu occupying the 10th, the 9th house, 
as already described, is extremely powerful. Further, the 12th house, 
which figures into long distance travel because of its rulership of remote 
foreign lands ( such as India), is, on the whole, powerful. The 12th 
lord, Venus, is in the auspicious 9th house, in a friendly sign, aspected by 
Jupiter, and is vargottama. It is unfortunately aspected by Mars, but the 
12th house itself is beneficially aspected by the Moon glancing on 


BHUKTI 
MO. DAY YR. 


Baba Ram Das (Richard Alpert) 
04-06-1931 10:40 a.m. EST 
42°N22'71°WO04' 


its exaltation sign. Ram Das made several journeys to India to study at 301 
the feet of his guru. 


TEACHING, FIRED FROM HARVARD—The 9th house (higher edu- 
cation) could hardly be stronger. The 2nd, which rules education and 
teaching, could hardly be more afflicted. The ruler of the 2nd (the 
Moon) is in the evil 6th house in its fallen sign (though past the highest 
point) and is fallen also in the navamsa. The 2nd house is occupied by 
neecha Mars. Therefore although this horoscope centers strongly on 
higher knowledge and spiritual leadership, it is intriguing that R.D. ever 
became a teacher (even with the Gemini ascendant). But it is not odd that 
he was involved with an institution of higher learning. Nor is it strange 
that he was fired from Harvard (for his drug activities with Timothy Leary 
in the 60's), since the 2nd house is so weak. 


DRUG USE—The severe afflictions to the 2nd house, already de- 
scribed above, indicate that R.D. would eat bad foods or take alcohol or 
drugs. 


A NOTE FOR THE FUTURE 


MOON DASA began 5/13/84 , and this will be a very difficult 10 
years. There may especially be ill health and powerful enemies arising 
against R.D. These are of course 6th house matters, the house where the 
afflicted Moon is posited. There are also likely to be difficulties with 
finances and possibly the right eye, since the Moon rules the 2nd house. 


VARGAS—THE 16 DIVISIONAL CHARTS 3 


There are, all together, 16 charts which can be drawn up for each 
person. Although each varga may reveal specific information, most astrol- 
ogers use them to note a planet's overall condition. In other words, if a 
planet is in its own, or exaltation, sign in many vargas, then it must be 
considered extremely powerful in the natal horoscope. Likewise, if a 
planet is fallen in many divisional charts, it is weakened and causes 
misery. 


As has already been mentioned, the navamsa is the most import- 
ant varga and is always used alongside the rasi chart. The varga that is 
employed most often after the navamsa is perhaps the dasamsa, or 
career chart, described in #9 below. 


1. RASI—THE NATAL BIRTHCHAI 
2. NAVAMSA, THE ONE-NINTH DIVISION—MARRIAGE. See page 1 


3. DREKANA, THE ONE-THIRD DIVISION—SIBLINC 


S Each sign is divided into 3 parts of 10 degrees each. 


Degrees PARTS 
00 to 10 a} 
10 to 20 2 
20 to 30 3 


5%; Any planet (or ascendant) in the 1st part of a sign is placed in the same 
sign as its natal position. 


3% Any planet in the 2nd part of a sign is placed in the 5th sign from its 
natal position. 


S Any planet in the 3rd part of a sign is placed in the 9th sign from its 
natal position. 


For example, the Sun in Richard Nixon's horoscope is in 26 
degrees Sagittarius, or the 3rd part of that sign. Therefore it will 
occupy the 9th sign from Sagittarius, i.e., Leo. 


NATAL POSITIONS FOR RN. DREKANA CHART FOR RN. 
ascendant 247 Leo 


Sun 26° Sagittarius 
Moon 27* Capricom 
Mars 7° Sagittarius 
Mercury 7°Sagittarius 
Jupiter 9° Sagittartus 
Venus 10°51‘ Aquarius 
Satum 4* Taurus 
Rahu 14° Pisces 
Ketu 14* Virgo 


4. DWADASAMSHA, THE ONE TWELFTH DIVISION—PARENTS 


* Each sign Is divided {nto 12 parts of 24 degrees each. 


Degrees Parts DWADASAMSHA FOR R.N. 
oo 00'— 02" 30 1 
02 30— 05 00 2 
05 OO— 07 30 3 
07 30-— 10 00 4 
19 ©— 12 30 5 
12 30— 15 00 6 
15 0O— 17 2 7 
17 30— 20 00 8 
20 00— 22 30 9 
22 30— 25 OO 10 
25 0O— 27 30 a 
27 30— 30 00 12 


*Note which degree each planet occuples and count the appropriate 
number of signs (parts) from the natal position of the planct. 


For example. the Sun In the horoscope of R.N. is 26° Sagittarius, 
Therefore count 11 houses from Sagittarius and place the Sun in that 
sign (Libra). 


5. HORA, THE ONE HALF DIVISION—CHARACTER DISPOSITION 
* More planets In the Sun's hora gives a firm or masculine disposition. 
* Planets in the Moon’s hora give a soft or feminine nature. 
PLANETS TO BE PLACED IN THE SUN'S HORA ( & ) 


® Planets In 00°—15° ofoddsigns— YT ais 
* Planets in 15°—30° of even signs— @S me M V3 


HORAS FOR R.N. 


PLANETS TO BE PLACED IN THE 
MOON'S HORA (s) 


¢ Planets in 00°-15° of even signs- 


6. TRIMSAMSAS, USED ONLY FOR FEMALE HOROSCOPY 


This varga differs from the others in that what is ascertained is 
not a sign position for each planet but a particular ruler. In other 
words, it may be found that Venus is in a sign ruled by Mercury, but it is 
not specified whether that sign is Virgo or Gemini. This is because 
Hindu scriptures give results based upon such information when 
delineating female horoscopy. For example, they may say that if Venus is 
in a sign ruled by Mars in the trimsamsa, the woman concerned will not 
be chaste at the time of marriage, or some such effect. 


FOR PLANETS IN ODD SIGNS 


DEGREES IS RULED BY 
00° to 05° Mars 
05 to 10 Saturn 
10 to 18 Jupiter 
18 to 25 Mercury 
25 to 30 Venus 


FOR PLANETS IN EVEN SIGNS 


DEGREES IS RULED BY 
00° to 05° Venus 
05 to 12 Mercury 
12 to 20 Jupiter 
20 to 25 Saturn 
25 to 30 Mars 


TRIMSAMSAS FOR R.N. 


ELANEE RULED BY 
ascendant Mercury 
Sun Venus 
Moon Mars 
Mars Saturn 
Mercury Saturn 
Jupiter Saturn 
Venus Jupiter 
Rahu Jupiter 
Ketu Jupiter 


14 


7. SAPTAMSHA, THE ONE-SEVENTH DIVISION—CHILDREN'S 
PROSPERITY 


§, Each sign is divided into 7 parts of 4 degrees and 17 minutes each. 


SAPTAMSA FOR R.N. 


DEGREES PARTS 


00° oo’ — 04° 17’ 
04 17—08 34 
08 34—12 51 
12 51—17 08 
17 0&8—21 25 
21 25—25 42 
25 42—30 00 


NOON PWN Ye 


§, For planets in odd signs, count the appropriate number of signs from 
the planet's natal position. 


§, For planets in even signs, count the number of signs from the house 
opposite the planet's natal position. 


8. TURYAMSHA, THE ONE FOURTH DIVISION—EDUCATION 
> Each sign is divided into 4 parts of 7 degrees and 30 minutes. 


TURYAMSHA FOR R.N. 


DEGREES PARTS 


00° 00' — 07° 30' 
07 30 —15 00 
15 00 —22 30 
22 30 —30 00 


BhwONH 


§, Any planet in the 1st part of a sign is placed in the same sign as the 
planet's natal position. 


> Planets in the 2nd part are counted from the 4th sign from the planet's 
natal position. 


S Planets in the 3rd part are counted from the 7th sign from the planet's 
natal position. 


‘Planets in the 4th part are counted from the 10th sign from the planet's 
natal position. 


9. DASAMSHA, THE ONE TENTH DIVISION—PROFESSION. 


S This varga aids in delineating a person's vocation and professional 
success. 


S Each sign is divided into 10 parts of 3 degrees each. 


DEGREES PARTS DASAMSA FOR RN. 
00° — 03° 1 
03 — 06 2 
06 — 09 3 
09 — 12 4 
12—15 5 
15— 18 6 
18 — 21 7 
21 — 24 8 
24 — 27 9 
27 — 30 10 


S: For planets in odd signs count the parts from the planet's natal position. 


> Planets in even signs are counted from the 9th sign from the planet's 
natal position. 


NOTE—In this career chart for RN., 1 planet is exalted, 1 is in its moolatrikona sign, 3 are 
in their own signs, and Mars is in Saturn's sign, where it operates very well, since it is 
exalted in Saturn's other sign, Capricorn. 


10. SHODASAMSHA, THE ONE-SIXTEENTH DIVISION—CONVEYANCES 


>) Each sign is divided into 16 parts. Thirty degrees cannot be 
divided evenly by 16. The figure employed by astrologers is 1 degree 53 
minutes. 

DEGREES PARTS 


00° 00’ —01° 53’ 
O01 53 —03 46 
03 46 —05 39 
05 39 —O07 32 
O07 32 —O09 25 
09 «25 —11 18 
11 18 —13 11 


NOR WONHE 


3] 


DEGREES PARTS SHODASAMSHA FOR RN. 


13° 11" —15° 04° 8 
15 Of —I16 57 g 
16 57 —18 50 10 
18 0 —20 43 1 
20 43 —22 36 12 
22 36 —24 29 13 
240 29 —26 22 14 
26 22 —28 15 15 
28 15 =—30 00 16 


*Planets which occupy Cardinal signs (V % = Y§) are counted 
from Aries. 


* Planets In fixed signs( §) @ M, = ) are counted from Leo. 


* Planets In dual or mutable signs{ HH ® £  ) are counted from 
Sagittarius. 


11. VIMSAMSHA, THE ONE TWENTIETH DIVISiION— 
HAPPINESS & SUCCESS 


¢ Each sign is divided into 20 parts of | degree 30 minutes each. 


DEGREES PARTS 
oo" oO —01° 30° q 
o1 30 —03 OO 2 
a3 00 —O4 30 3 VIMSAMSHA FOR RN. 
OF 30 =—06 & 4 
66 0O —07 WwW 5 
oF 30 =—09 OO 6 
oo a —10 Ww 7 
10 30 —12 0 8 
12 oF -—-13 W 9 
1330 —15 a 10 
5 co —16 W PI 
16 30 —18 OO 12 
18 00 —19 30 13 
19 30 —21 14 
21 OOF —22 30 15 
22 3 —24 OO 16 
24 00 —2 3 17 
25 3 —27 OO 18 
27 OO —28 W i9 
28 30 —30 00 20 


* Planets occupying cardinal signs are counted from Aries. 


> Planets in fixed signs are counted from Leo. 


§, Planets in dual or mutable signs are counted from Sagittarius. 


12. SDDHAMSHA, THE ONE-TWENTY-FOURTH DIVISION—EDUCATION 
Each sign is divided into 24 parts of 1 degree and 15 minutes each. 


DEGREES PARTS 


00° 00° -O1° 15° 1 
01 15 -0230 2 
02 30 -0345 3 
Ooi Ae Oe 08 7 SIDDHAMSHA FOR RN. 
05 00 -0615 5 
06 15 -0730 6 
07 30 -0845 7 
08 45 -1000 8 
10,00. . “MET 5 4 25 
it 15°. 212.60° “10 
12 30 -1345 11 
13 45 -1500 12 


§; Planets in odd-numbered signs are counted from Leo. Planets in even- 
numbered signs are counted from Cancer. 


13. SAPTAVIMSAMSHA, THE ONE-TWENTY-SEVENTH DIVISION— 
STRENGTH & VITALITY 


§, Each sign is divided into 27 parts of 1 degree 6 minutes each. 


DEGREES PARTS 
00° QO’ -01° 06' 1 
01 06 -02 12 

02 12 - 03 18 3 
03 18 - 04 24 4 
04 O05 - 05 30 5 
05 30 - 06 36 6 
06 = =36 - 07 42 7 


DEGREES PARTS 
O07 42 —08 48 8 
08 48 —09 54 9 
09 54 —11 00 10 
11 00 —12 06 11 
12 06 —13 12 12 
13 12 —14 18 13 
14 18 —15 24 14 
15 24 —16 30 15 
16 30 —17 36 16 
17 36 —18 42 17 
18 42 —19 48 18 
19 48 —20 54 19 
20 54 —22 00 20 
22 00 —23 06 21 
23 06 —24 12 22 
24 12 —25 18 23 
25 18 —26 24 24 
26 24 —28 30 25 
28 30 —29 36 26 
29 36 —30 00 27 


SAPTAVIMSAMSHA FOR R.N. 


> Planets are counted from the same sign as the planet's natal position. 


14. SWAVEDAMSHA, THE ONE-FORTIETH DIVISION— 
GENERAL SUCCESS 


S Each sign is divided into 40 parts of 45 minutes each. 


DEGREES PARTS 


00 00 —O00 45 
00 45 —Ol1 30 
01 30 —02 15 
02 15 —03 00 
03 00 —03 45 
03 45 —04 30 
04 30 —0O5 15 
05 15 —06 00 
06 00 —06 45 9 
06 45 —O07 30 10 
07 30 —08 15 11 
08 15 —09 00 12 
09 00 —O09 45 13 


SWAVEDANSHA FOR R.N. 


ONAARWNH HE 


09 45 —10 30 14 
10 30 —11 15 15 
11 15 —12 00 16 
12 00 —12 45 17 
12 45 —13 30 18 
13 30 —14 15 19 
14 15 —15 00 20 
15 00 —15 45 21 
15 45 —16 30 22 
16 30 —17 15 23 


17 15 —18 00 24 


DEGREES PARTS 


18 00 —18 45 25 
18 45 —19 30 26 
19 30 —20 15 27 
20 15 —21 00 28 
21 00 —21 45 29 
21 45 —22 30 30 
22 30 —23 15 31 
23 #15 —24 00 32 
24 00 —24 45 33 
24 45 —25 30 34 
25 30 —26 15 35 
26 15 —27 00 36 
27 00 —27 45 37 
27 45 —28 30 38 
28 30 —29 15 39 
29 15 —30 00 40 


S, Planets in odd-numbered signs are counted from Aries. 


S Planets in even signs are counted from Libra. 


15. AASHVEDAMSHA, THE ONE-FORTY-FIFTH DIVISION— 
GENERAL SUCCESS 


> Each sign is divided into 45 parts of 40 minutes each. 


DEGREES PARTS 
00 00 —00 40 1 
00 40 —01 20 2 
01 20 —02 00 3 
02 00 —d02 40 4 
02 40 —03 20 5 
03 20 —04 00 6 AKSHVEDAMSHA OF R.N. 
04 00 —04 40 7 
04 40 —05 20 8 
05 20 —06 00 9 
06 00 —06 40 10 
06 40 —0O7 20 11 
07 20 —0é8 00 12 
08 00 —08s8 40 13 
08 40 —0o9 20 14 
09 20 —10 00 15 
10 00 —10 40 16 
10 40 —11 20 17 
11 20 —12 00 18 
12 00 —12 40 19 
12 40 —13 20 20 
13 20 —14 00 21 
14 00 —14 40 22 
14 40 —15 20 23 
15 20 —16 00 24 
16 00 —16 40 25 


N 
0) 


16 40 —17 20 


DEGREES PARTS 


17 20 -18 00 27 
18 00 -18 40 28 
18 40 -19 20 29 
19 20 -20 00 30 
20 00 -20 40 31 
20 40 -21 20 32 
21 20 -22 00 33 
22 00 -22 40 34 
22 40 -23 20 35 
23 20 -24 00 36 
24 00 -24 40 37 
24 40 -25 20 38 
25 20 -26 00 39 
26 00 -26 40 40 
26 40 -27 20 41 

27 20 -28 00 42 
28 OO -28 40 43 
28 40 -29 20 44 
29 20 -30 00 45 


§, Planets occupying cardinal signs are counted from Aries. 


S Planets in fixed signs are counted from Leo. 
> Planets in mutable signs are counted from Sagittarius. 
16. SHASHTIAMSHA, THE ONE SIXTIETH DIVISION— 
GENERAL SUCCESS 
DEGREES 
DEGREES PARTS PARTS 
00 00 -00 30 1 Wii 30. “12 00 24 
00 30 -0O1 00 2 12 00 -12 30 25 
01 00 -01 30 3 12 30 -13 00 26 
01 30. -02 00 4 13 00 -13 30 27 
02 00 -02 30 5 13 30 -14 00 28 
02 30 -03 00 6 14 00 -14 30 29 
03 00 -03 30 7 14 30 -15 00 30 
03 30 -04 00 8 15 00 -15 30 31 
04 00 -04 30 9 15 30 -16 00 32 
04 30 -05 00 10 16 00 -16 30 33 
05 00 -05 30 11 16 30 -17 00 34 
05 30 -06 00 12 17 00 -17 30 35 
06 00 -06 30 13 17 30 -18 00 36 
06 30 -07 00 14 18 00 -18 30 37 
07 00 -07 30 15 18 30 -19 00 38 
07 30 -08 00 16 19 00 -19 30 39 
08 00 -08 30 17 19 30 -20 00 40 
08 30 -09 00 18 20 00 -20 30 41 
09 00 =-09 30 19 20 30 -21 00 42 
09 30 -10 00 20 21 00 -21 30 43 
10 00 -10 30 21 21 30 -22 00 44 
10 30 -11 00 22 22 00 -22 30 45 


11 00 -11 30 23 22 30 - 23 00 46 


DEGREES PARTS DEGREES PARTS 


23 00 -23 30 47 26 30 -27 00 54 
23 30 -24 00 48 27 00 -27 30 55 
24 00 -24 30 49 27 30 -28 00 56 
24 30 -25 00 50 28 00 -28 30 57 
25 00 -25 30 51 28 30 -29 00 58 
25 30 -26 00 52 29 00 -29 30 59 
26 00 -26 30 53 29 30 -30 00 60 


In this varga a horoscope is not drawn. What is ascertained is 
whether each planet occupies a benefic or malefic part. Below is a table 
indicating the nature for each part. B stands for benefic and M for 
malefic. 


FOR PLANETS IN ODD SIGNS. 
1M 16. B 31. M 46.B 
2. M 17. B 32. M 47.B 
3. B 18. B 33. M 48.B 
4. B 19. B 34. M 49.M 
5. B 20. B 35. M  50.M 
6. B 21. B 36. M 51. B 
7. M 22. B 37. B  52.M 
8. M 23. B 38. B  53.B 
9. M 24. B 39. B  54.B 
10. M 25. B 40. M _  55.B 
11. M 26. B 41. M  56.B 
12. M 27. M 42. B  57.B 
13. B 28. B 43. M 58.B 
14. B 29. B 44. M 59.M 
15. M 30. M 45. B  60.B 


For planets in even signs simply reverse the order. For example, a 
planet in the 1st part is benefic, as noted by # 60, 2nd part malefic as 
noted by # 59, and so on. 


SHASHTIAMSHA FOR R.N. 


ascendant Malefic 
Sun Benefic 
Moon Benefic 
Mars Malefic 
Mercury Malefic 
Jupiter Benefic 
Venus Benefic 
Saturn Benefic 
Rahu Malefic 


Ketu Malefic 


322 OVERALL VIEW OF VARGAS FOR R.N. 


Out of the 16 vargas which are drawn, 13 are in the form of charts 
employing planets in signs. Vargas are mainly used to note how often a 
particular planet is in its own, exaltation or fallen sign, etc. Below is a 
chart showing the distribution of R.N.'s planets. 


OWN SIGN EXALTED FALLEN 


Sun 
Moon 
Mars 
Mercury 
Jupiter 
Venus 
Saturn 
Rahu 
Ketu 


NOrandsb OND 
OwWrradwrnhd 
mMOoOrROOOrF 


CHALETA BRAVA KUNDALI— : 
THE DIURNAL CHART PREDICTIVE METHOD 


There is a little-known and rarely used technique called chaleta 
bhaua kundaii. This diurnal chart has yielded most exceptional results 
in the author's life and is thus now included. The chart is easily drawn 
using basic calculations, and it is employed solely to delineate events 
caused by transits to chaleta planetary positions. All that is necessary is 
to subtract the rasi, or natal planetary positions, from the ascendant. 
This is simply done. However, if the position of a planet exceeds that of 
the ascendant, then 360 degrees must be added to the ascendant degree 
in order to make the subtraction possible. It is also sometimes necessary 
to reduce a degree to minutes in cases where the figure being 
subtracted is higher than the figure it is being subtracted from. 
Therefore, bear in mind that 1 degree equals 60 minutes. In order to 
proceed with the calculations, the planets must be reduced to their 
actual positions in the 360 degree zodiac. The table below will be helpful. 


Aries 00°— 29° = 59 
Taurus 30°— 59° 59" 
Gemini 60°— 89° 59" 
Cancer 90°— 119° 59" 
Leo 120°— 149° 59' 
Virgo 150°— 179° 59' 
Libra 180°— 209° 59' 
Scorpio 210°— 239° 59 
Sagittarius 240°— 269° 59 
Capricorn 270°— 299° 59' 
Aquarius 300°— 329° 59' 
Pisces 330°— 360° 


When the chart is drawn, the same ascendant as the rasi chart is 
used, and the planets are placed in their new positions. The chart is then 
used to note any transits which conjoin, or oppose, (some astrologers also 
consider the 90-degree Western square aspect) the planetary positions. 


In the author's life, it was exactly when transiting Rahu conjoined 
the chaleta Rahu that the 1st India journey commenced. A Hindu astrol- 
ogy teacher was found and lessons began when transiting Jupiter con- 
joined chaleta Sun. The trans-Saturnian planets Uranus, Neptune, and 
Pluto, have also had powerful effects when transiting chaleta planets. 
When Neptune conjoined chaleta Saturn and opposed chaleta Jup- 
iter, extremely spiritual effects resulted. When dealing with transits to 
chaleta planets, only very tight orbs should be used, ie., one degree. 


Regarding transits, it must be remembered that the sidereal 
position for each transiting planet is to be ascertained. This is done by 
subtracting the ayanamsa for the year of the particular transit from the 
position given for the planet in the Western tropical ephemeris. For 
example, when reviewing transits for January 1950, the ayanamsa to be 
employed is 23 degrees and 9 minutes. Thirty years later the 
ayanamsa to be subtracted is 23 degrees 34 minutes. 


CHALETA BHAVA ICUNDALI FOR R.N. 
EXAMPLES 


SATURN: (natal Saturn is 4° Taurus 50' or 34° 50’). 
Ascendant 24° Leo 46'=144° 46' minus 34° 50'=109° 56'=19° Cancer 56". 


MARS: (Mars is 7° Sag. 7' or 247° 07’). 
Ascendant 24° Leo 46'=144° 46' plus 360°=506° 46'-247° 07'=257° 39'= 
17° Sag. 39". 


ASHTAKA VARGA—EIGHT-FOLD DIVISION SYSTEM < 


The ashtaka uarga, or eightfold division, is a supplemental tech- 
nique which serves to give added weight to the power or weakness of 
each of the houses. It is also used for delineation of transits, since planets 
transiting through powerful houses in this system produce intense 
results, while planets transiting weak houses do not. The calculations of 
ashtaka varga are somewhat time-consuming, and therefore only a small 
percentage of Hindu astrologers take the time to use the system. 


To calculate ashtaka uarga, 8 blank charts are drawn for each 
planet and the ascendant (i.e., 8 charts for the Sun's ashtaka uarga, 8 for 
the Moon, etc. Rahu & Ketu are not included, so a total of 64 charts are 
drawn). Inside each of the 8 charts, the natal position of one planet (or 
ascendant) is listed, and then certain houses from that planet's position 
are marked with a dot. On page 326 is the table listing which houses 
(from the particular planet) are to be marked. For the ashtaka uarga of 
the ascendant there will be a total of 49 dots marked in the 8 charts. 
Referring to the table mentioned, for the Sun's chart (out of the 8 charts 
making up the ascendant's ashtaka uaraga), dots are to be marked in 
the 3rd, 4th, 6th, 10th, 11th, and 12th from the Sun's position. The Moon 
chart of these 8 receives dots in the 3rd, 6th, 10th, 11th, and 12th from 
the Moon, and so on. After all 8 charts have been drawn and marked, the 
total number of dots for each sign are counted and placed in one chart, 
which represents the ashtaka varga for the ascendant. There should be 
a total of 49 dots counted. If the number differs, then a mistake has been 
made. Next, 8 charts are drawn for the Sun's ashtaka uarga, and the 
process of marking the appropriate houses continues. 


Given on page 328 are the 8 charts for Richard Nixon's ascendant 
ashtaka uarga, followed by those of the Sun. The ashtaka uargas for the 
other planets are also given, but without the 8 calculation charts. The 
next step is to tally all the dots for each sign and to place them in one 
final chart, which is called the sarua ashtaka varga. In this chart the 
number of dots should total 386. It is thus deduced that since there are 
12 signs, the average number of dots for a house is 32 plus a fraction. 
Therefore any houses with a higher number are considered strong both 
natally and in the fact that they will give extra powerful effects when 
transited. According to R.N.'s sarua ashtaka uarga horoscope (given 
below), the 2nd, 3rd, and 10th houses are extremely powerful, while the 
6th, 7th, 9th, 12th and 1st are weak. 


a 


Sun 


Moon 
Mars 


Mercury 


Sun 


Moon 
Mars 


Mercury 


Sun 


Moon 
Mars 


Mercury 


Sun 


Moon 
Mars 


Mercury 


Sun 


Moon 
Mars 


Mercury 


R.N.'s SARVA ASHTAKA VARGA 


COUNTING DOTS FOR ASHTAKA VARGA 


ASCENDANT'S ASHTAKA VARGA—Total Dots, 49 


3,4,6,10,11,12 


3,6,10,11,12 
1,3,6.10.11 
1,2,4,6,8,10,11 


1,2,4,7,8,9,10,11 


3,6,10,11 
1,2,4,7,8,9,10,11 
3,5,6,9,10.11,12 


3,6,7,8,10,11 


1,3,6,7,10.11 
2,3,5,6,9,10,11 
1,3,4,5,7,8,10,11 


3,5,6,10,11 


3,6,11 
1,2,4,7,8,10,11 
3,5,6,11 


5.6,9,11,12 
2,4,6,8,10,11 
1,2,4,7,8,9,10,11 
1,3,5,6,9,10,11.12 


Jupiter 


Venus 
Saturn 
Ascendant 


1,2,4,5,6,7,9, 10,11 


1,2,3,4,5,8,9 
1,3,4,6,10,11 
3.6,10,11 


SUN'S ASHTAKA VARGA—Total Dots, 48 


Jupiter 


Venus 
Saturn 
Ascendant 


5,6.8,11 


6,7,12 
1,2,4,7,8,9, 10,11 
3.4,6,10,11,12 


MOON'S ASHTAKA VARGA—Total Dots, 49 


Jupiter 


Venus 
Saturn 
Ascendant 


1,4,7,8,10.11,12 


3,4,5,7,9,10,11 
3,5,6,11 
3,6,10.11 


MARS' ASHTAKA VARGA—Total Dots, 39 


Jupiter 
Venus 
Saturn 
Ascendant 


6,10,11,12 


6,8,11,12 
1,4,7.8,9,10,11 
1,3,6,10,11 


MERCURY'S ASHTAKA VARGA—Total Dots, 54 


Jupiter 
Venus 
Saturn 


Ascendant 


6,8,11,12 
1,2,3,4,5.8,9,11 
1,2,4,7,8,9,10,11 
1,2,4,6,8.10,11 


Sun 


Moon 
Mars 
Mercury 


Sun 


Moon 
Mars 


Mercury 


Sun 


Moon 
Mars 


Mercury 


1,2,3,4,7,8,9,10,11 


2,5,7,9,11 
1,2,4,7,8,10,11 
1,2,4,5,6,9,10,11 


8,11,12 


1,2,3,4,5,8,9,11.12 
3.5,6,9,11,12 
3,5,6,9,11 


12,4,7,8,10,11 
3.6.11 

3,5,6,10,11,12 
6.8,9,10,11,12 


JUPITER'S ASHTAKA VARGA—Total Dots, 56 


Jupiter 
Venus 
Saturn 
Ascendant 


1,2,3,4,7,8,10,11 


2,5,6,9.10,11 
3,5,6,12 
1,2,4.5,6,7,9,10,11 


VENUS' ASHTAKA VARGA—Total Dots, 52 


Jupiter 
Venus 
Saturn 
Ascendant 


5,8,9,10,11 


1,2,3,4,5,8,9,10,11 
3,4,5,8,9,10,11 
1,2,3,4,5,8,9,11 


SATURN'S ASHTAKA VARGA—Total Dots, 39 


Jupiter 
Venus 
Saturn 


Ascendant 


5,6,11,12 


6,11,12 
3,5,6,11 
1,3,4,6,10,11 


fA 


ASHTAKA VARGA CALCULATION CHARTS FOR R.N. 


NAKSHATRAS-LUNAR MANSIONS 3: 


The 360 degree zodiac is divided into 27 nakshatras, or lunar man- 
sions, comprised of 13 degrees and 20 minutes each. These 27 consist of 3 
groups of 9, whereby each of the 9 is ruled by one of the planets, including 
Rahu and Ketu. The nakshatras are used mostly for arranging marriages 
and for selecting auspicious times to begin any new undertaking. Many 
Hindu astrology books give a brief 2- or 3-line delineation of the nature of 
the characteristics each nakshatra indicates, and one may then note the 
nakshatra of the natal Moon and ascendant. However, the descriptions 
are rather superficial, since the method of nakshatras itself forms a com- 
plete system of astrology. Such work is beyond the scope of this text, and 
all that is given here are the nakshatras and their rulers, as well as one 
simple means which some astrologers use when approached by parents 
wishing to arrange a marriage for their child. 


DEGREES NAKSHATRA RULED BY 
1. 00°00'— 13°20' Aswini Ketu 
2. 13 20 — 26 40 Bharini Venus 
3. 26 40 — 40 00 krittika Sun 
4. 40 00 — 53 20 Rohini Moon 
5. 53 20 — 66 40 Mrigishira Mars 
6. 66 40 — 80 00 Aridra Rahu 
7. 80 00 — 93 20 Purnavasu Jupiter 
8. 93 20 — 106 40 Pushyami Saturn 
9. 106 40 — 120 00 Aslesha Mercury 
10. 120 00 — 133 20 Makha Ketu 
id; 133 20 — 146 40 Poorva phalguna Venus 
12. 146 40 — 160 00 Uttara phalguna Sun 
13. 160 00 — 173 20 Hasta Moon 
14. 173 20 — 186 40 Chitra Mars 
15. 186 40 — 200 00 Swati Rahu 
16. 200 00 — 213 20 Vishakha Jupiter 
17. 213 20 — 226 40 Anuradha Saturn 
18. 226 40 — 240 00 Jeyshta Mercury 
19. 240 00 — 253 20 Moola Ketu 
20. 253 20 — 266 40 Poorva ashada Venus 
21. 266 40 — 280 00 Uttara ashada sun 
22. 280 00 — 293 20 Sravana Moon 
23. 293 20 — 306 40 Dhanishta Mars 
24. 306 40 — 320 00 Satabhish Rahu 
25. 320 00 — 333 20 Poorva bhadra Jupiter 
26. 333 20 — 346 40 Uttara bhadra Saturn 
27. 34640 — 360 00 Revati 


Mercury 


32 In the table below the nakshatras are divided into 3 groups con- 
sisting of Gods, humans, and demons. The first step is to note which 
nakshatras the Moons of the potential bride and groom occupy. Then 
ascertain which group each falls into and follow the subsequent rules: 


DEVAS (GODS) MANUSHYA (HUMANS) RAKSHASAS (DEMONS) 
Aswini Rohini Aslesha 

Mrigishira Bharini Krittika 

Punarvasu Aridra Makha 

Pushyami Poorva phalguna Chitra 

Hasta Uttara phalguna Vishaka 

Swati Poorva Ashada Jeyshta 

Anuradha Uttara Ashada Moola 

Sravana Poorva bhadra Dhanishta 

Revati Uttara bhadra Satabhish 


S If the nakshatra of the Moon of both the man and woman falls into the 
same group, then married life will be harmonious. 


S If the nakshatra of the woman's Moon falls in the human group and the 
nakshatra of the man's Moon falls in the Deva group, excellent results 
for married life are to be expected. 


3 If the nakshatra of the woman's Moon falls in the rakshasa group and 
the man's Moon falls in the Deva group, bad effects result. 


S If the nakshatra of the woman's Moon falls in the human group and the 
nakshatra of the man's Moon falls in the demon group, bad results are 
caused. 


> If the nakshatra of the woman's Moon falls in the demon group and the 
nakshatra of the man's Moon falls in the human group, bad effects 
result. 


FREE WILL VS. PREDESTINY 3: 


At the heart of all astrological work lies the question of free will vs. 
predestiny. Astrologers who are unwilling or unable to inquire deeply, 
openly, and rigorously into this question cannot do justice to their work 
or their clients. As Western astrologers gain accuracy in delineation and 
prediction through the Hindu system, they may wish to rethink their 
conclusions regarding free will. Reality is rather a personal matter, 
since it is generally based upon one's experience. Reality changes as 
experience changes. Western astrologers practicing Hindu astrology are 
about to notice a bit more substance to predestined action. 


In India, Nepal, and other parts of the Far East, there are two lions 
placed at the front of every temple. It is said that the fierce-looking beasts 
represent that which prevents people from entering the place of worship— 
in other words, the blocks which keep man from realizing God. One prob- 
lem is doubt or lack of faith. The other is paradox—that which is 
absurd or contradictory in nature but in fact true. Regarding the issue 
of free will, many if not most religions offer the following paradox: Free 
will exists, absolutely, yet all of life has been predetermined from the 
instant that creation came into being. In the same way a seed can 
produce a tree only of the same specific nature, creation, once begun, was 
also finished. This paradox is seen in religions, as disciples are taught 
how to behave and how not to behave using their own free will. At the 
same time the teachings declare in no uncertain terms the omniscience 
of God, who is said to know the exact destiny of everyone and everything. 
That there is both complete free will and complete predestination is 
merely one viewpoint. But it is worth considering if for no other reason 
than the fact that it is the one which philosophers, Gurus, and religious 
sages of every culture for the past few thousand years have embraced. In 
any case, the important point is that if there is indeed absolute free will 
and absolute predestiny, then Hindu predictive astrology is one way which 
clearly deals with the latter. It is therefore of value for the astrologer to 
practice Hindu astrology with the assumption that all details of a person's 
life may be delineated astrologically, even if such is possible in theory only, 
due to the enormous number of variables involved. 


"And God said let there be lights in the firmament of the heaven to 
divide between the day and the night. And let them be for signs and for 
seasons and for days and years. And let them be for lights in the fir- 
mament of the heaven to give light upon the earth. And it was so." 


GENESIS—THE BIBLE 


A FINAL NOTE 3 


By now the reader should have analyzed several horoscopes with 
the Hindu method and seen the efficacy of Jyotish (Hindu astrology). 
There are at this point a few important matters to consider. The Hindu 
culture is in many respects quite opposite to that of the West. So it is also 
that the mentality of the Easterner differs vastly from that of the West- 
erner. Westerners are at times perhaps overly concerned with minute 
precision while orientals enjoy abstractions and often disregard anything 
which limits or confines. In fact, for the Easterner there is little 
difficulty or lack of comfort with paradox. On the other hand 
Westerners are generally thrown completely off balance by such 
complexities. For those who wish to continue with Hindu astrology and 
begin reading Hindu classics on the subject, it is important to bear all 
this in mind: otherwise one's patience will be sorely tried, for, the Hindu 
sages who are claimed to have written the scriptures have contradicted 
each other at nearly every turn—not only in their often diametrically 
opposed delineations of planets in houses but also with certain very basic 
rules of the system. It is thus nothing short of fascinating that so many 
Indian astrologers, like their Western counterparts, have learned their 
craft solely from books. But such is evidently a function of the Indian 
culture. 

It is, then, to be understood that the work presented in this book is 
the result of practical experience as well as study with seasoned Hindu 
astrologers. Therefore, wherever discrepancies have existed in Hindu 
technique, choices have been made and conclusions drawn. Make no 
mistake about it, statements and delineations in this book will contradict 
certain Hindu scriptures, as well they must, since if a mere 3 or 4 of the 


336 one is correct can, of course, only be determined after a good deal of expe- 
rience and experimentation. It is, therefore, rather fortunate that the 
author has studied with both R. Santhanam, a scholarly astrologer who 
has by now translated 8 or 10 classic Hindu texts, as well as P.M. Padia, a 
veteran astrologer of some 20 years in the field. 


It is also to be noted that Hindu astrological methods often vary 
quite decidedly from province to province in India. Therefore the reader 
should be aware that certain information in this book might seem for- 
eign to some Hindu astrologers, even though the bulk of the work is of 
course quite traditional. However, those details which a particular Hindu 
astrologer would not recognize would merely be taken in stride with more 
curiosity than alarm. Such is the nature of Indians and their relationship 
with Jyotish. 


Before the present title of this book was chosen, the name Break- 
throughs in Astrology was considered. This was because the learning of 
Hindu predictive astrology represented a major breakthrough in the 
author's study. For although the Western system is indeed profound, 
there is all too often a lack of reliability regarding predictive work. And 
such work is precisely the reason many people today consult astrologers. 
Consistent accuracy in astrology, as most honest professionals realize, is 
quite a task, and even when practicing the Hindu system there are occa- 
sions where horoscopes contain indications which belie a person's expe- 
rience. This certainly occurs less often than with Western astrology but 
nevertheless does occur. Therefore, the breakthrough which has been 
mentioned is a result of the combined use of both systems. Western 
astrologers are thus not encouraged to practice Hindu astrology exclu- 
sively. They would indeed be missing the real value of what is presented 
here. In any event, after a certain amount of experience with Hindu & 
Western astrology, one comes to find that both charts actually reveal the 
same reality. There will also be cases where a rather blatant or intense 
condition is seen from only one of the horoscopes. In time the astrologer 
learns which indications to rely upon and therefore which horoscope to 
trust regarding the particular signification under consideration. For this 
reason, the combined use of the two systems can only serve to enhance 
the odds for accuracy so long as the techniques are not mixed and the 
integrity of each system is maintained. 


Hindu astrology is, as already mentioned in the introduction, no 
more difficult than the Western system. What is necessary now is simply 
study, patience, and practical experience. A small price to pay for the abil- 
ity to fortell human destiny! 


ECCLESIASTES 3 


"To everything there is a season, 

and a time to every purpose under the heaven; 
A time to be born, and a time to die; 

A time to plant, and a time to pluck up that which 
has been planted; 
A time to kill, and a time to heal; 

A time to break down, and a time to build up; 

A time to weep, and a time to laugh; 

A time to mourn, and a time to dance; 

A time to cast away stones, and a time to gather 
stones together; 
A time to embrace, and a time to refrain from 
embracing; 
A time to get, and a time to lose; 

A time to keep, and a time to cast away; 
A time to rend, and a time to sew; 

A time to keep silence, and a time to speak; 

A time to love, a time to hate, a time of war, anda 


time of peace." 
—The Bible 


GLOSSARY 3 


A 
Amrita—A potion or nectar said in Hindu scriptures to grant immortality 
when consumed. 
Antara dasa—Inter-subperiod, i.e., dasas are divided into 9 bhuktis, which 
are further divided into 9 antara dasas. Also called vidasas. 


Artha—Wealth or financial affairs. One of the 4 functions of human life 
according to Hindus. 

Ascendant—The 1st house in a horoscope. Same as ascending or rising 
sign. 

Ascetic—One who lives an austere, disciplined, or reclusive life style. 

Atma—tThe soul. 

Atmakaraka—tThe astrological indicator of the soul. There are 2 in each 
horoscope. The Sun is one, and the planet occupying the latest 
degree in the horoscope is the other. The atmakaraka reveals strongly 
ingrained tendencies and affinities. 


Ayanamsa (pronouced aya-namsha)—The figure to be subtracted from 
the tropical (Western) zodiac to arrive at the sidereal zodiac used in 
Hindu astrology. That is, the difference between the 2 zodiacs, the 
sidereal method taking into account the 50 1/4 second movement of 
the precession of equinoxes, which is ignored in the tropical system. 

Ayaya bhava—House of gains & profits. 11th house. 

Ayush karaka—Indicator of longevity. Saturn is ayush-karaka. 


10 


B 
Benefic—A planet which by its essential nature gives fortunate results, 
i.e., Venus, Jupiter, the waxing Moon, and Mercury when unaspected 
by any malefic. 


Bhagya bhava—House of fortune. 9th house. 


Bhava—House. 


Bhukti (pronounced booktee)—Planetary subperiod within a dasa or 
major period. There are 9 bhuktis (1 for each planet) in each dasa. 


Brihaspati—One of the Hindu names for Jupiter. 
Buddha—Hindu name for Mercury. 


Cc 
Chakra—Wheel. In this usage, the horoscope. 
Chandra (pronounced chundra)—Hindu name for Moon. 


Chandra lagna—Moon ascendent. The procedure of delineating the horo- 
scope using the Moon sign as the 1st house. Not a separate process 
but a basic ingredient of analysis, performed simultaneously with 
ordinary birthchart examination. 


Conjunction-2 planets occupying the same sign (and therefore having 
an effect upon each other). In Western astrology, conjunctions are 
limited to planets within a close range, generally up to 8 or 10 
degrees. 


Combustion—A debilitating condition occurring when any planet other 
than the nodes is found within 8 degrees of the Sun. The combust 
planet is said to be absorbed or burned up by the Sun's intense rays 
and thus rendered powerless. 


D 


Dasa (pronounced dasha)—Period of time during which a person's life is 
under the influence of a particular planet. There are 40 known dasa 
systems, the most popular one being the Vimsottari. 


Dhana bhava—House of wealth. 2nd House. 


Dharma—Way of life. Duty. One's proper action or work in the world. One 
of the 4 functions of human life according to Hindu philosophy. 


Dik bala—Directional strength. One of the 6 sources of strength in shad 
bala. According to the dik bala source each planet is strongest in a 
designated house and weakest in the exact opposite position. 


Drishti—The glance or aspect one planet casts onto another house or 
planet. All planets aspect their opposite house. Mars, Jupiter and 
Saturn also aspect certain other houses. 

Dusthana (pronounced dush-tana)—One of 3 misery-producing 
houses, that is, the 6th, 8th, and 12th. Any planet associated with 
one of these houses in any way is harmed or empowered to cause 
destruction. Houses aspected by the lord of one these dusthanas are 
spoiled. 


iE 


Ephemeris—The book containing the calculated daily positions of thea 
planets and nodes. 

Exchange of signs—When 2 planets are posited in each others signs. For 
example, if the Sun is in Capricorn and Saturn occupies Leo, then 
this condition exists. Exchange of signs generally strengthens both 
planets and gives excellent results when a dasa bhukti of the 2 
planets occurs. In Western astrology, when 2 planets exchange signs 
they are said to be in mutual reception. 


G 


Gandanta—An evil condition which occurs when the Moon or ascen- 
dant is in the last 2 degrees of any water sign. Often causes death to 
an Indian child if other horoscope conditions are greatly afflicted. 


Gnana—Wisdom or discrimination. An intellectual path to enlightenment 
used by Hindus. 

Gnana karaka—Indicator of discrimination. Ketu is gnana karaka. 

Graha—Planet 


Guru—Spiritual guide, teacher or preceptor. Also, one of the Hindu names 
for the planet Jupiter. 


H 


Hemmed in—Any planet surrounded on both sides exclusively by benefics 
or malefics is hemmed in. Not limited to planets occupying the same 
house, this condition also occurs when the considered planet is 
flanked by planets in the directly preceding or following houses, i.e., 
the 2nd or 12th from that planet. This condition is fortunate or 
unfortunate, depending on the nature of surrounding planets. 


J 


Jaimini—Another Hindu system of astrology, not as popular as the Para- 
sara system given in this text. 


Jaya bhava—House of wife (spouse). 7th house. 


Jyotish (pronounced joe-teesh)—Hindu name for astrology. 


K 
Kama—Desire. One of the 4 functions of human life according to Hindu 
philosophy. 
Karaka—Astrological indicator, e.g., the Sun is karaka of father. 


Karma—Activities. The philosophy of cause and effect. Reaping the effects 
of past actions, including those from previous lives. 


Karma bhava—House of activities (occupation). 10th house. 
Kendra—Angular house. The 1st, 4th, 7th, and 10th. 
Ketu—The Moon's descending or South node. 
Kuja—One of the Hindu names for Mars. 


Kujadosha—Mars affliction. A condition spoiling married life. 


L 
Lagna (pronounced lugna)—Ascendant or 1st house. 
Lord—Same as house ruler. 
M 


Malefic—A planet which by its essential nature causes harm. 
Mangal—One of the Hindu names of Mars. 


Mangaldosha—Same as Kujadosha 

Mantra—Sanskrit sounds or phrases originating from the Vedas thou- 
sands of years ago which, when chanted or meditated upon, produce 
desired results. Astrological mantras are used reduce the evil effects 
indicated by a particular planet or to fulfill a particular desire. 

Maraka (pronounced mar-aka)—A planet empowered to cause death. A 
planet ruling the 2nd or 7th house is a maraka. These houses are so 
charged because they are the 12th house from the "life" houses, the 
8th and 3rd. 

Moksha (pronounced moeksha)—Enlightenment, salvation, final libera- 
tion, nirvana, state of eternal freedom. One of the 4 functions of 
human life and man's ultimate goal according to Hindu philosphy. 

Moksha-karaka—lIndicator of moksha. Ketu is mokshakaraka. The 12th 
house is also related to moksha. 

Mrityu bhava—House of death. 8th house. 


N 

Natal—Pertaining to the horoscope based on the exact time and place of 
birth. 

Navamsa (pronounced navamsha)—The 1 /9th divisional chart specifically 
relating to marriage. The most important of all the 16 vargas. Used 
by all astrologers alongside the natal horoscope. 

Neecha—A planet in its fallen sign, i.e., the sign where a planet functions 

worst and produces misery. 

Neechabhanga—A special planetary yoga which, when it occurs, cancels 
the negative effect of a fallen planet. 


P 

Papa—Malefic planet. 

Papakarthari—A debilitating condition due to the Moon being 
hemmed in on both sides by malefic planets. 

Parasara—Most popular system of Hindu astrology and the one taught in 
this text. 

Peedya—A planet in the last degree of a sign. An intensely weakening 
condition. 


Planetary war—Whenever 2 planets are conjunct within 1 degree, a plane- 
tary war is fought, and the winner is the planet in the earliest degree 
of longitude. This condition does not include the Sun, Moon, Rahu, 
or Ketu. The planet which wins the war is strengthened, while the 
loser is debilitated or completely destroyed. 

Poorvapunya—Specific credit from past-life efforts destined to 
appear in this lifetime. 

Prasna (pronounced prushna)—Horary astrology. A method whereby a 
person puts a specific question to an astrologer and a horoscope is 
drawn up to give the answer. The horoscope is drawn up for the time 
and place where the question was asked. 

Progression—Predictive technique employed in Western astrology wherby 
the positions of planets each day after one's birth represent 1 year of 
life. 


Putra bhava—House of children. 5th house. 


R 
Rahu (pronounced Ra-hoo)—The Moon's ascending or north node. 
Rakshasa—A demon or evil being, according to Hindu scriptures. 
Raja-yoga—Royal union. An extremely favorable condition which occurs 
when the lords of 2 auspicious houses join together in one house. 
Raja-yogakaraka—Royal union indicator. A planet which, because of the 2 
good houses it rules, has the same effect as a planetary union. For 
example, whenever the lord of the 9th and 10th house join 
together, a raja-yoga is formed. Saturn is therefore a raja- 


yogakaraka for Taurus ascendent because it rules both the 9th and 
10th houses. 
Rasi—A zodiac sign or constellation. The natal horoscope is referred to as 
the rasi chart. 


Ravi—One of the Hindu names of the Sun. 


S 

Sahaja Bhava—House of siblings. 3rd house. 

Sanskrit—Ancient language of Hindus, including Vedic Sanskrit which, 
is said to have been cognized by enlightened beings. Considered by 
Hindus as a "name and form" language, where there exists an actual 
connection between a word and the form it represents. 


Sani (pronounced Shunee)—One of the Hindu names for Saturn. 

Satru bhava—House of enemies. 6th house. 

Sattwa—purity. 

Satvic—Of a pure, creative, or life-supporting nature. 

Setting planet—Planet in 7th house. 

Shad bala—Six strengths. The system of calculations consisting of 6 


a 


Shaivites (pronounced Sheevites)—Disciples of Lord Shiva. 

144 Shiva (pronounced Sheeva)—One of the 3 main Hindu Gods. The God of 
destruction. 

Sidereal zodiac—The zodiac used by Hindus, which employs the exact 
positions of the constellations as zodiac signs. This is done taking 
into account the precession of equinoxes, ignored by Westerners 
using the tropical zodiac. 

Soma—One of the Hindu names for the Moon. 

Sukha bhava—House of happiness & comforts. 4th house. 

Sukra—One of the Hindu names for Venus. 

Surya—One of the Hindu names for the Sun. 

Swakshetra (pronounced swak-shey-tra)—A planet occupying the sign it 
rules. E.g., the Moon in Cancer occupies its swakshetra. 


LE 


Tajaka—One system of Hindu astrology. Less popular than Parasara. 
Tamasic—Of a lethargic or destructive nature. 


Thanu bhava—House of the body. 1st house. 


Transit—A predictive method based upon the effects of the daily motion 
of planets on a position in the natal horoscope. 


Trikona—Trinal house. The Sth and 9th houses. Trikonas are the most 
fortunate houses and give great benefits. Some astrologers consider 
the 1st house to be both angular and trinal. 

Tropical zodiac—The zodiac used by Westerners, where the precession of 
equinoxes is ignored and there is no actual connection between a 
zodiac sign and the actual constellation of the same name. 


U 


Uchcha (pronounced oocha)—Exalted. A planet occupying the sign 
where it gives its finest results. 

Upachaya—A "growing" house, where the significations of a planet 
improve or grow stronger as time goes on. The 3rd, 6th, 10th, and 
1 Ith houses. The only houses where malefics produce good results. 

Upaye—Antidote (to a planetary affliction). E.g., the wearing of a specific 
gemstone will neutralize the negative effects indicated or caused by a 
harmful planetary condition. 


Vv 
Varga—One of the 16 divisional charts based on fractions of each sign 
in a natal horoscope. 
Vargottama (or vargothamamsa)—A planet occupying the same sign in 
the navamsa and rasi chart. A fortunate condition said to give 
results similar to that of a planet in its own sign. 


Vedas (pronounced veydas)—The ancient body of knowledge of the Hin- 
dus. Said to have been cognized by enlightened beings. 

Vidasa—Same as antara dasa. 

Vishnu—One of the 3 main Gods of the Hindus. The God known as the 
great maintainer or preserver. 

Vyaya—Malefic. 

Vyaya bhava—House of expenditure & loss. 12th house. 


R' 


Yoga—Union. In this case, planetary unions which produce specific effects. 

Yogakaraka—Union indicator. The best planet for a horoscope because of 
its house rulership, i.e., a planet which, because it rules good houses, 
gives beneficial results wherever it is placed, regardless of its essen- 
tial nature. For example, Mars is the yogakaraka for a Pisces ascen- 
dant horoscope because it rules the 9th and 2nd houses. 


BIBLIOGRAPHY 3 


BHRIGU SUTRAM, Sage Bhrigu. 
Translation & commentary by Dr. Gouri Shankar Kapoor. 
Ranjan Publications, 1981. 
16, Ansari Rd, Darya Ganj. 
New delhi, India 110002. 

CONDENSED EPHEMERIS, N.C. Lahiri. 
Astro Research Bureau. 
17 Brindaban Mullick First lane, 
Calcutta-700009. 

CONSTELLATIONAL ASTROLOGY, Robert De Luce. 
De Luce Publications, 1963. 


HINDU DASA SYSTEM, Grace Inglis. 
Sagar Publications. Ved mansion 72 Janpath, 
New Delhi India 1977. 

HINDU SCIENCE OF THE FUTURE, Harihar Majumder. 
Chatra Siksha Niketan, 
2 Bankim Chatterji St., 
Calcutta 700073. 1981. 

HORA SARA, Prithuyasas. Translation by R Santhanam. 
Ranjan Publications, 1982. 


JATAKA PAIRIJATA, Vaidyanatha Dikshitas. 
Translation by V. Subramaniya Sastri. 
Ranjan Publications, 1932. 
MARILYN, Norman Mailer. Pub. Grosset & Dunlap. 
PHALADEEPIKA, Mantreswara. 
Translation by V. Subrahmanya Sastri. K. Subahmanyam, 
98 Govindappa Rd., Bangalore 560004. 1937. 


PRASNA MARGA, (compilation of many authors). 
Translation by J.N. Bhasin. Ranjan Publications. 
SARAVALT, Kalyana Varma. 
Translation by R Santhanam. Ranjan Publications, 1983. 
16, Ansari Rd, Darya Ganj. 
New delhi, India 110002. 1983. 
SATYA JATAKAM, Satyacharya. 
Translation by S.K. Raman. Ranjan Publications. 1979. 
SATYOGA MANJARI, B. Suryanarain Rao. 
The Astrological office, Bangalore, 560 037. 1922. 
THE PATH TO POWER, Robert Caro. Pub. 
Alfred A Knoff Inc. 1982. 


THE SCIENCE OF MANTRAS, Kailash Vajpeyi. 
Published by Gulab Vazirani for 
Arnold-Heinemann Publishers, Pvt. Ltd. 

AB/9, Safd. Enclave, New Delhi, India 110005. 1979. 


SYMBOLS, SIGNS & SIGNETS, Ernst Lehner 
Dover Press, Inc. N.Y. 1969. 


OTHER IMPORTANT TITLES 
BRIHAT JATAKA, Varaha Mihira. 
BRIHAT SAMHITA, Varaha Mihira. 


JATAKA TATWA. 
KALAPRAKASIKA, (standard work on nakshatras). 


UTTARA KALAMRITA. 


