Ancient Indian Geo-Centric Astronomy — Connections to Scriptures, Astrology and 
History Satya Sarada Kandula 


Table of Contents 


Note : This document is being updated daily and organized better with information 


already published in my web-site http://oldthoughts.wordpress.com. Please bookmark 
and check back frequently, or visit the web-site. Satya Sarada Kandula 


Related Scribd documents : http://www.scribd.com/doc/32256378/Hindu- 
Predictive-Astrology and http://www.scribd.com/doc/19702375/How-Many-Kinds-of- 
Yugas-Are-There 


Tablesxof Contents vcec e225 2 veers ee ees ad Be co i oe I ECE ee Cae 1 
IntrOductiOn............cccccccecececececececececeeesecececeeeeesssssssssststssteteteeeesteeeeeeeeeteteeeeesececseseeeeeeeceseees 3 


Tamil and Hindi Calendar Month Nam riations with Sanskrit (Tel 
IMotith Names): torts set ee Bae eo ed et een ae 10 


Ancient Indian Geo-Centric Astronomy — Connections to Scriptures, Astrology and 
History Satya Sarada Kandula 


Karthika Masam and Dhanur Masam. oe 58 
Ancient Indian Astronomers. esheets coaar = Veipe Nal in init cakes ie ea ie hae eae tsa ate cea cet hn  AN a hah 60 


Unique eclipse pair eorabinadon just before the Bhatacs Wear sie hee OL. 


Ancient Indian Geo-Centric Astronomy — Connections to Scriptures, Astrology and 
History Satya Sarada Kandula 


Introduction 


Why study Geo-Centric Astronomy? 


Posted by satyask on December 11, 2009 


To understand the astronomical significance of the Puranas, it is necessary to have some idea of the 
geo-centric (earth-centred) astronomical model used by Ancient Indian Astronomers (Rishis and 
others). A helio-centric (sun- centred) model, simplifies a lot of calculations and is the preferred 
model in modern science. 


But if you step outside and look at the sky and see the sun-rise and sun-set, the full moon and the 
new moon, you will find that geo-centric astronomy makes more intuitive sense. So what we will be 
doing is trying to place ourselves in the minds of our forefathers and see the world as they saw it. 


Much of the knowledge that they had did not require extra-terrestrial genes or divine revelation. It 
required careful observation, excellent mathematics, brilliant insights and great dedication to the 
science. 


It also needed a society which valued truth and knowledge. And that was the society of Ancient 
India. 


It was as difficult to afford advanced education for all then as it is now. So puranas with their high 
appeal were overlaid with astronomical significance, such that the ‘facts’ were retained even if the 
‘derivations’ and ‘logic’ was available only to those who dedicated their life to study. 


It was a society that placed the knowledgeable and wise people above the rulers in status while at 
the same time ensuring that they had neither the power of wealth nor arms and at the same time 
required strict discipline and self-denial from them. 


It was a society that trusted the spoken word and put all the knowledge in to metrical form such 
that any mispronunciation or interpolation would be evident. It was a society that then introduced 
many different forms of preserving the oral tradition, with recitals from back to front, alternating 
words etc, such that the word was incorruptible. 


It is possible that the most knowledgeable phycists today know more about astronomy and physics 
than the rishis of the ancient times. It is certain that the rishis of the ancient times knew more than 
the ‘average’ or ‘lay person’ of today, and definitely knew more than they are given credit for, by 
the general populace. 


Then why study ancient science at all? Why not study modern physics and be done with it? There is 
too much to know anyway. 


A part of the answer to this can be national pride. A part of the answer to this can be justice and 
giving credit where it is due. A part of the answer to this can be curiosity. A part of the answer to 
this can be social reform. If we know what the puranas actually said and what they actually meant, 
we can make more informed decisions with regard to our religious and spiritual life. 


Some people are not comfortable with recognising that ancient wisdom was science. They don’t like 
taking the magic out of ancient science. Humans like miracles and magic. They entertain and 
reassure us. But I think the fact that we are all here at all is a miracle. The fact that we can speak 
and pray and dance is a miracle. All technology is a miracle. When Nature or Prakruthi is such a 
great miracle, why seek unnatural miracles? 


Let us give the rshis of India their respectful and rightful dues as the original scientists of our 
human civilization and not just as philosophers. 


Ancient Indian Geo-Centric Astronomy — Connections to Scriptures, Astrology and 
History Satya Sarada Kandula 


Nakshatras 
What are Nakshatras? 


Posted by SatyaSk on January 4, 2010 


Reference : History of Astronomy in India. Indian National Science Academy. 1985. 
Chapter 9. Indian Calendar from Post-Vedic period to AD 1900. Page 274: S.K. Chatterjee and A.K. 
Chakravarthy. 


What is the ecliptic? 


The ecliptic is the apparent yearly path of the Sun seen from the earth on the background 


of the stars. 
What is the zodiac or rasi chakra? 


The moon and planets are found within a belt of width eight degrees on either side of the ecliptic. 


This belt is known as the rasi chakra, or the zodiac. 
What is a nakshatra? 


To indicate day to day position of the moon in relation to the stars, the zodiac has been divided into 
27 equal parts, from a fixed initial point in the ecliptic. Each part is known as a nakshatra or 


nakshatra division. and it covers 13 deg 20 min or 800 min of arc of the ecliptic. 


Each Nakshatra division is named after a selected star which is generally prominent or traditionally 


well known and is broadly equally spaced in the zodiac. These identifying stars are called yogataras. 


Lune 


Not all Yogataras are located in the lune of the nakshatra division. for eg Ardra, Swati, Jyesta, 


Poorvashada, Uttarashada, Sravana and Dhanishta. 


Ancient Indian Geo-Centric Astronomy — Connections to Scriptures, Astrology and 
History Satya Sarada Kandula 


The word Nakshatra in the context of panchangas means the nakshatra division signified by that 


Nakshatra. 


Rights for sourced material vest with the source. 


Ancient Indian Geo-Centric Astronomy — Connections to Scriptures, Astrology and 
History Satya Sarada Kandula 


Nakshatra refers to an area of the sky in the Vedas 


Posted by satyask on March 12, 2010 


The image below shows a Rg veda mantram of which Vasishtha is the Rshi. 


It explains how the sun (Suryah) on rising at dawn illuminates the nakshatras. Since the sun 
illuminates the sky and not constellations, as it rises, I believe this mantra supports the definition of 
nakshatra, as a region of the sky (lune) as given by Chatterjee and Chakravarthy.in the previous 


section. 


! J ' ' 
Wem wk seed Rade) Cacives | Cara weatystiet th ogae ll wsier oe 


i 1 { 1 
sole tml cyan PKaguer wi Re Cee) Sica a 


. we eh reve gt . 

KROher Koes Lise wos vata geet ere KT OME SRT. 
iy rm mactze f Feorhoun wx aLGcrok ysis Byh Sy Gaas Ae 
fen Steud Hath gee caea Vogt Zree derma he et 453% cae eran 
od. K8.5,4 Reese Oh ote rogers om. te ert ad & ana 
Bee u catia wheres on faware og 4 Latés erecy 
Ct rertee Ro fescaske aise kart] ¢oahe | att syn gacr 


oe bran ee + 
<agr.. &ir Erceme Ran tere, 3 Wh was ts chetedy 1 Kt ra 
ca 
wOaes wor Kase Organ Wiae s Eee ott |! Este 


~~. 


Ree Bites | ede cat erat rc AN ti ek ot ee Etta! 
—_ 


ao wat hs ra, 542k, Wasaga Rk Sher Crs ete roy ar 
CH +z wifasl ce reatcoba ms sf. SPH Sits, 


+ memes 


CCE res fat fee. FT chee, eek fo tegts orasgas ore 
+ 


4e: 


A PRE Te Boa SE eed eed Seat wef. 


et wlcie TS ath a4 £y relat tid» . 


bhAsya. 

f weld fike to draw affention fe the Idea thet the Sun ituminaws the nakshoiras. if the meaning of nekshetras was 
eonstefisitans.. tls would noi be meaningful. However, aokshotas adually mean eventy distributed areas of He shy ome 
Me consfeuifaitons kRittke ete “own', “rufa” or “mark” these areas by Heir proximity, 


Please read : hitp://eldiheughh. werdpress,.com/20 10/0 1/04/nalshatras/ 


Vedic Meaning of Nakshatram 


Ancient Indian Geo-Centric Astronomy — Connections to Scriptures, Astrology and 
History Satya Sarada Kandula 


Nakshatra English Names 


Posted by satyask on December 25, 2009 


Some people believe that nakshatram is the same as a ‘tara’ or a star or sometimes a constellation. 


Not everyone agrees on the English names of all the nakshatras, so I am trying to collect them. 


Source 1 and Source 2 were used to create the table below. 


"Balakrishna (Source 2) 'RAS’i 
130 Aries/SAO- —_ ‘mESa 
1 As’vini Beta Arietis _'75151/HD- 
|12929/Hamal. 
r 7 7 ‘7 ; 
: oat 41-Aries/SAO- mESa 
cE _bharaNi 35 Arietis /|75596/HD-17573 a 
‘25hAries/SAO- 4 (1 pAda) in 
| : ; 76199/HD-23630/ mesa 
3 Rttika Eta Tauri AlCyone. % (3 pAdas) in 
Lo I aE Zz avRSabha 
87a Tau/SAO- vRSabha 
4 rOhiNi Aldebaran 94027/HD -29139/ 
Aldebaran 
1128 Tau /SAO-771682 pAdAs in 
5 ae x Lambda /HD -35497/ Elnath. vRSabha 
ne eaer Orionis '2 pAdAs in 
Lis eS pa es zk. _mithuna 
aia US wa ck 
24 Gem/SAO- mithuna 
6 _,ARdra Alpha Orionis 95912/HD47105/Arab 
Lge 1a [Alhena’ ue 
'78 B Gem/SAO- 3 pAdAs in 
7 etree AT Beta |9666/HD- mithuna 
P Geminorium ®2909/’Pollux 1 pAdain 
7 karkAtaka 
. 178 Cnc/SAO- karkAtaka 
8 puSya(tiSya) DeltaCancri 116569/HD-69267 Arab 
: Al Tarf : 
65 a Cnc/SAO ~karkAtaka 
9 As’ lESa Alpha Hydroe 98267/HD 76756 
Asseleus Australis, 
32 a Leo/SAO simha 
10 mAgha(makha) Regulus 98967/HD 
= | 87901/Regulus 
pUrvaphAlguNi _ SAO 99512/HD 97633 simha 
1] (pubba) Delta Leonis Arab Chort 
12 _uttaraphAlguNi BetaLeonis _94B Leo/SAO119076/ 1 pAdain 


Ancient Indian Geo-Centric Astronomy — Connections to Scriptures, Astrology and 


History Satya Sarada Kandula 
Gas |HD 102870 Arab Zavijava simha, 3 pAdAs 
| j Ji _I in kanya 
'29 gVirgo identified as kanya 
13. hasta Delta Corvi —_ HD-110380,Arab 
L n I Porrima ; 
Savina eo 2 pAdAs in 
14 ~~ citra (citta) ines ff & kanya 
; S '2 pAdAs in tula 
|SAO-139824/HD tula 
15 swAti Arcturus 124850 /99i Vir, 
at he. Arab Syrma ; 
92a2Libra, SAO 1588403 pAdAs in tula 
16 vis’Akha Alpha Libroe 9" HD 130481 Arab] yh Ada in 
Zubenelgenubi ae 
: 4 vRs’cika 
78 -Sco/SAO -'VRs’cika 
17. anUrAdha Delta Scorpio 184014/HD 143275. 
Arab Dschubba. 
: '21 a Sco/SAO vRs’cika 
18 JyESTa Antares 184415/HD 148478. 
in 7 7 7 
42 q OPH from dhanus 
19 |MUla, (vicRta) ee Ophichius zodiac 
oS jprOrelo JOR Arab Sabik 
UrvASaDa ...... [34a Sag, Arab name dhanus 
20 (aS ADa) Delta Sagittari _Nunki 
be aX ie pn es = = aL 
cae cae or'| pAda in 
21 aCe Sigma sagittari -192876/192947.Arabs mary ; 
abhijit, aSADa ) |call this as Geidi Pb ee 
makara 
> 495 -cap, SAO-164644 kumbha 
jy aes aos Alpha Aquiloe and HD-207098. Arab 
ee f _Deneb Al Geidi. . . 
53 dhaniSTa Beta 55¢_SAO-146107 and '2 pAdAs in 
“ GraviSTa) =—_Delphinum —_|HD-213051 kumbha 
906 Aqr, SAO- kumbha 
n4  SatabhiSa [Lambda 146595/SAO-146620, 
(s’atabhiSaja) |Aquarius ‘or HD- 
ee '219449/HD219688. 
'SA0128513/HD224617 3 
pUrvAbhAdra P PAGAS In 
25 1 Alpha Pegasi /28@ Psc. kumbha 
(prOSTapAda) . 
he ne = _1 pAda in mIna 
06 uttarAbhAdra Gaina Paoasy 3.8 Psc, SAO- mina 
(prOSTapAda) "4 F 88S! 189474/HD-4656. 
27 ~~ rEvati Zeta Piscum 99 _Psc, SAO-92484 mine 


I 


jor HD-9270 


Ancient Indian Geo-Centric Astronomy — Connections to Scriptures, Astrology and 
History Satya Sarada Kandula 


Why do we use 27 nakshatrams when there are 


millions of stars? 


The moon takes 27.32166 days to go around the earth. This is the sidereal month. It covers 1 nakshatram 
per solar day approximately. The moon functions as an astronomical day count clock in which Moon is the 
pointer and the stars are numerals in the sky pointed to by moon each day of the lunar month. 
(Balakrishna). 


Nakshatram of the Day 


Posted by satyask on August 26, 2009 


The Vedic people used the moon as a pointer to the skies. 


There are 27 Nakshatrams that cover 360 degrees of the zodiac, so each nakshatram ‘covers’ 13.33 


degrees. The moon (Chandra) moves through each of these nakshatrams, once every month. 


Moving through means moving close to. The Yuga (Union) of Chandra and any Nakshtra roughly lasts 


for a solar day. 

The Nakshatra Yuga at SunRise determines the Nakshatra of the day. 

So at the time the sun is rising, the moon is within the 13 degrees of the Nakshatra of the Day! 
The nakshatram of the day on the day of your birth is your janmanakshatram. 

The rAs‘i in which the moon is on that day is your janmarAs’i. 


The rAs’‘i in the eastern horizon at the time of your birth is the janmalagna. The exact point on the 


eastern horizon at the time of your birth is your Lagna or Ascendant. 
Some Background and Technical Terms. (kArte) 


1. The nakshatras always appear to to rise and set along the same celestial line or longitude. 
That is why they are called in general fixed stars. 

2. Surya (The Sun) and Chandra (The Moon) do NOT rise and set along the same celestial line 
or longitude. The sunrise or moon-rise position, is to the north or south relative to the 
previous day. 

3. The moon passes by every nakshatra once a lunar month and spends an average of one 
day close to any given nakshatra. Each day is that named after a nakshatra. 

4. Similarly the sun passes by every nakshatra once a year and spends on an average one 


fortnight near any given nakshatram. That fortnight is called the kArte of that 
nakshatram. 


Thus day-nakshatra names depend on the longitude of the moon, fortnight karte names 
depend on the longitude of the sun. The names of the lunar months depend on the 
longitude of the full moon. Each lunar month is named after that nakshatram on which the full 


Ancient Indian Geo-Centric Astronomy — Connections to Scriptures, Astrology and 
History Satya Sarada Kandula 


moon day (pournami) day occurs. Since the full moon depends on the relative angular separation of 
the sun and the moon and the nakshatram depends on the moon and the nakshatrams, they never 
match exactly. So we take the nakshatram that most frequently occurs near the full moon 
and name the lunar month after that. 


Masas 


What is a Masa (month)? 


Why we have 30 days to a lunar month : The time between two successive full moons is 
29.53059 solar days, which can be approximated to 30 solar days. The size of fractional moon 
exposure to sun can indicate a day count and is defined as a moon day or tithi. Thirty tithi's 
are defined in a lunar month, each tithi being smaller than a solar day. Fifteen are identified 
as Shukla paksha or ascending fortnight and next fifteen are called krishna paksha or 
descending fortnight. 

Why we use 27 nakshatras : The moon takes 27.32166 days to go around the earth. This is the 
sidereal month. It covers 1 nakshatram per solar day approximately. The moon functions as an 
astronomical day count clock in which Moon is the pointer and the stars are numerals in the 
sky pointed to by moon each day of the lunar month. 

The reason for time between full moons being higher than sidereal month is because, the moon has 
to go around the earth by more than a revolution (nearly 390 degrees) to keep with earth 
which moves forward in its trajectory around sun. 

Lunar Month : “Though the lunar time between two successive full moons is 29.53059 solar days, the time 
taken for moon to go round the earth (sidereal month) is 27.32166 days. Moon also has an oscillatory 
motion crossing the ecliptic. The moon anomalistic motion and nodal motion have periods are 27.55545 and 
27.21222 days for a revolution around earth. The Chandramaana lunar calendar system keeps a natural 
cyclic count of days using both Moon based properties 

How we got the names of the months: “The twelve months were named after the stars at which 
full moon occurs and these are Chaitra, Vaishakha, Jyeshta, Ashaada, Sharavana, Bhadrapada, 


Ashwija, Kaartika, Margashira, Pushya, Maagha, Phalguna. ” 


Tamil and Hindi Calendar Month Name Variations with 
Sanskrit (Telugu) Month Names 


Posted by satyask on November 28, 2009 
Tamil and Telugu (sanskrit) : 


There are 2 levels of matching required.. one is with names and one is with dates. 


Maarkazi Margasira 
thai Pushya — Tishya 
maachi (Maasi) Magha 
pangkuni Phalguni 
chiththirai Chitra 
vaikaachi Vaisakha 
aani Jyeshta 

aadi Aashada 

aavaNi Sravana 
purattaac Bhadrapada 
aippachi Aswiyuja 
kaarththikai Karthika 


Ancient Indian Geo-Centric Astronomy — Connections to Scriptures, Astrology and 
History Satya Sarada Kandula 


1. Jan 7th 2009 was accepted as Vaikuntha Ekadasi both in the Tamil and the Telugu 
calendars, but the Telugu Calendars called it Pushya Suddha Ekadasi and the Tamil 
Calendars called the same day as Margasira (Markazi) Suddha Ekadasi. 

2. Jan 26th 2009 was Pushya Amavasya in the telugu calendar, Jan 25th was Thai Amavasya 
in the Tamil calendar - so you might hope for a match. 

3. But Feb 9th is Magha Pournami in the Telugu Calendar and feb 8th is Thai (Pushya) Poosam 
(Pournami) in the Tamil Calendar. 


4. Telugu months start with the first day after the new moon, so in any lunar month, the 
pournami comes first and then the amavasya. In Tamil month reckoning, it appears as if 
the amavasaya occurs first and then the pournami, but this observation needs verification. 


5. Feb 23rd 2009 was MahaSivarathri in both calendars, but Telugu people will tell 
you that it is Magha Bahula (Krishnapaksha) Chaturdasi and Tamilians will tell 
you that it is Thai (Pushya) Krishnapaksha Chaturdasi. 

6. So Telugu month-names “occur” before the corresponding Tamil month names. 

7. The first day of Chaitra Masam as per telugu/kannada people was 27th March 2009. This 
was our New Year Day. The first day of Chittirai (Chaitra), as per Tamilians was 14th April 
2009. 

8. 27th march 2009 was Chandramana Ugadi (Lunar New Year), 14th April 2009 was Saura 
Samvatsaradi (Solar New Year). 

9. What was Vaisakha Pournami to telugu people was Chaitra Pournami to Tamilians - May 
9th 2009. 


And so on... 
Hindi And Telugu (Sanskrit Names) : 


The Hindi month names are variants of the sanskrit (telugu) names. For eg Pushya Masam in 


Sanskrit (telugu) becomes Posh in Hindi. 


Jan 11th 2009 was Pushya Pournima (Posh Pournima) in both Hindi and telugu calendars. But Jan 
12th 2009 was Pushya Krishna Paksha Padyami in Telugu Calendars and it was Magha Krishna 
Paksha Dwitiya in the Hindi calendar. Hindi months of the same name variants start a fortnight 
earlier than telugu (sanskrit) months. There is no mention of Vaikuntha Ekadasi in the Hindi 


calendar I referenced. 


Feb 23rd 2009 was Mahashivarathri even in in the Hindi calendar but, it was called 
Phalgun Krishna Dwadasi in the Hindi Calendar, Magha Bahula (Krishnapaksha) 
Chaturdasi in the telugu calendar, Thai (Pushya) Krishnapaksha Chaturdasi in the Tamil 


Calendar. 


In the Hindi Calendar, Chaitra Masam started on 12th March 2009. 11th March was celebrated as 
Holi or Phalguna Pournami. Telugu (Sanskrit) and Hindi calendars agree on month names only in 
the Suklapaksha (the fortnight preceding pournami). So Holi is in a sense a year-end festival, 
because it ends Hemanta, the season after winter and before spring. The Hindi New Year has been 
given in the reference as March 27th 2009, Chaitra Sukla Paksha PratiPada (Padyami), as it is for 


the Telugu and Kannada people. 


Ancient Indian Geo-Centric Astronomy — Connections to Scriptures, Astrology and 
History Satya Sarada Kandula 


References: 


For the tamil calendar I used : http://www.panchangam.com/fest.htm 


and for the Hindi I used this : http://www.festivalsofindia.in/calender/jan.asp 
For the telugu calendar I used the one created by the Sringeri Samstha. 


Authorship and Copyright Notice : All Rights Reserved : Satya Sarada Kandula 


Ancient Indian Geo-Centric Astronomy — Connections to Scriptures, Astrology and 


History 


Rasis 


English Names of rAs’Is 


Satya Sarada Kandula 


Even though I have given a name correspondence below, you must be cautious. In the 
sky the starting point of what Hindus call mesha and what westerners call Aries are not 
necessarily the same. 


Mesha Aries 
'‘Vrishabha Taurus. 
Mithuna ‘Gemini 
Karkataka ‘Cancer 
Simha Leo 
Kanya Virgo 
Tula Libra 
Vri shchika Scorpio 
Dhanu |Sagitarrius 
Makara Capricorn 
Kumbha JAquarius 
Meena ‘Pisces 


Rasis were mentioned in the Balakanda of Valmiki Ramayanam to describe the time of Sri Rama’s 


birth and were also explained in Parasara’s Hora Sastra. It is likely that zodiac names travelled from 


India to Greece. 


¢ Given the closeness in meaning of Rasi Names in Sanskrit and Greek. (This suggests 
interaction) 


¢ Given the Date of the Bharata war and the Date of Sri Rama (These happened first) 


Ancient Indian Geo-Centric Astronomy — Connections to Scriptures, Astrology and 
History Satya Sarada Kandula 


Grahas 


Graha means gravitational body not Planet. 


Posted by satyask on May 14, 2009 


Graha means to hold. The Indian word loosely translated as planet is Graha. It is suggestive of 


grav-itation. 
The word ‘planet’ itself is derived from the word ‘wanderer’ (unlike the fixed stars). 


That is why Surya and Chandra are also “grahas”. It is also why Rahu and Ketu are called Chaya 


(Shadow) Grahas. 
The word Graha is used from the earliest days in Indian Texts. 


The nine grahas are Surya (Sun), Chandra (Moon), Kuja (Mars), Budha (Mercury), Guru (Jupiter), 
Sukra (Venus), Sani (Saturn), Rahu and Ketu. 


It is wrong to translate the word graha as a planet and then to be crtical of calling Surya and 
Chandra as grahas. The error is not in our astronomy. The error is in the translation from 


Sanskrit to English and other languages. 
Parents of the navagrahas.. 


Posted by satyask on March 17, 2010 


Grahas: “The Grahas referred to in The Vedas are Surya, Chandra, Brihaspati, 
Shukra, Budha, Shani, Kuja, Rahu, Ketu. The Vedas extensively refer to Nakshatra month 
names and moon pointing at different Nakshatra’s for various purposes. The European 
view (originally from Chaldian and Kassarian cultures of Middle East and from Egypt), 
propagated by Greek philosophers, of the night sky and the star system ran in a different 
direction in ancient times in that Sun was considered as the pointer to skies. In contrast, 


the moon is considered to be the primary pointer from vedic astronomical point of view. 


¢  Surya’s parents are Aditi and Kasaypa, the son of Marichi and grandson of Brahma. 
Surya and Sandhya/Chaya are the parents of Sani 
Atri and Anasuya are the parents of Chandra. (See Also : Chandra Deva, Atri’s son and_ 


Indra’s Uncle) 


Ancient Indian Geo-Centric Astronomy — Connections to Scriptures, Astrology and 


History Satya Sarada Kandula 
e Chandra and Tara are the parents of Budha. 
e Kuja is the son of Siva and Bhumi. 
e  Brihaspati is the son of Angirasa and grandson of Brahma 
¢ Sukra is the son of Bhrigu and grandson of Brahma. 


Maya is also said to be the son of Vipracitti and Simhika and a brother of Rahu. Simhika is_ 


said to be a chaya grahi rakshasi or a rakshasi who catches shadows. She tried to_ 


prevent Hanuman from reaching Sri Lanka. This is all the more interesting since Rahu is a_ 


chaya graha or a shadow graha. As the author of Surya Siddhantam, Maya described how _ 


eclipses were caused.. and it had nothing to do with anyone swallowing the sun!! Ketu is a 


“clone” of Rahu... 


Ancient Indian Geo-Centric Astronomy — Connections to Scriptures, Astrology and 
History Satya Sarada Kandula 


Varas : Days of the week are named after grahas. 


Varas were in use at the time of Janamejaya’s Rule. See Janamejaya’s Dana Sasana 
Patram. They are also mentioned in the balakAnDa of the valmiki 


rAmAyaNa. They are still in use today. 


‘Ravivar _ Sunday Sun 


Induvasar or Somavar Monday Moon 


| 

Bhomyavasar or Mangalvar Tuesday Mars 
Sowmyavasara orBudhavar “Wednesday Mercury 
Brihaspativasara or Guruvar Thursday Jupiter 
Bhargava vasara or Shukravar Friday : Venus 


Sthiravasara or Shanivar Saturday Saturn 


Ancient Indian Geo-Centric Astronomy — Connections to Scriptures, Astrology and 
History Satya Sarada Kandula 


Uccha, Neecha, Exaltation, Debilitation 
and Declination 


Posted by satyask on September 7, 2009 
Let us continue with our study of geo-centric or “observable” or ancient Indian astronomy. 


Zero Length Shadows : To cast a zero length shadow the Sun or Moon must be exactly overhead. 
This can happen only at noon, but not every where, on everyday of the year. Please 

Read : http://daphne.palomar.edu/jthorngren/tutorial.htm for a very clear and basic explanation. Beyond 
the tropic of cancer and the tropic of capricorn, towards the poles, the sun is never directly 
overhead. When the sun is directly overhead at the tropic of cancer, the sun is at a 66.5 degree 
angle at the equator. At the North Pole on the summer solstice, the sun circles around all day 23.5 
degrees above the horizon. 


June Solstice 


Circle of Tlluminatior, Sun's ra 


Night 66% degN Sun's rays 


on? 
= 
23! deg N 
Tropic of Cancer 


deg Equator 
Sun's rays 


a8 dee & : 
Tropic of Capricorn 


80.5 = 
664 deeg5 Antarctic Circle 


http://daphne.palomar.edu/jthorngren/tutorial.htm 


When we talk of declination of a graha, we are talking of its angle above the horizon. 
A graha is exalted, when it’s angle is as great as possible and it is debilitated when it’s angle is as 
small as possible. We always think of the Northern Hemisphere with respect to Ancient Indian 
Astronomy. 


Source : 


Graha———~—Ss«S ceca Rashi Neecha Rashi 


Surya (Sun) Mesha (Aries) 


Ancient Indian Geo-Centric Astronomy — Connections to Scriptures, Astrology and 
History Satya Sarada Kandula 


Shukra ec Meena a 


Shani Shani(Saturn) Thulam Thulam (Libra) Mesha i 


Rahu (Moon’s Node : Vrishabha (Taurus) Vrischika 
a ae s head) 


Ketu IKetu (Dragon’s tail) | s tail) Vrischika (Scorpio) Vrishabha 


The Sun is exalted in Mesha., therefore we are talking about the Spring Equinox, when the equator 
gets the direct rays of the sun at noon. 


Therefore, the points of exaltation described below are with respect to the equator and not with 
respect to say, Ayodhya. 


Astrologically speaking, a graha is most powerful when it reaches its degree of exaltation. 


Precession of Equinoxes means Precession of Exaltation : 


@ If the Spring Equinox shifted Kritika Nakshatram to Aswini Nakshatram, then the Sun’s 
Exaltation point as observed at the equator also shifted from Kritika Nakshatram to Aswini 
Nakshatram. 

@ If at one point, the Sun was Exalted (Equator) in Revathi, that means that particular spring 
equinox occurred approx 26000 years ago. 


Nakshatra of Sun’s Exaltation varies with the earth’s latitude : 


@ Today, if I SEE that the sun is exalted in Mesha Rasi, Ashwini Nakshatram, then I may be 
sitting on the equator. 


@ Today, if I SEE that the sun is exalted in Karkata Rasi, Punarvasu Nakshatram, then I may 
have in mind, a place on the tropic of cancer. 


@ Today, if I SEE that the sun is exalted in Makara Rasi, Dhanishta Nakshatram, then I may 
be sitting on the tropic of capricorn. 


Ancient Indian Geo-Centric Astronomy — Connections to Scriptures, Astrology and 
History Satya Sarada Kandula 


Spring/Autumnal 

Equinox 
Declination Line 

Winter Solstice ’ Hour Lines 

Declination Line / 


Summer Solstice 
Declination Line 


Style 1 
/ Style 2 


Noon Gap Gnomon 


oon 2 op 
Noon 1 N Nodus 1 om 


What is the difference between a graha yoga 
conjunction) and a yuga? 


Posted by satyask on September 4, 2009 


First, take a geo centric point of view. Then imagine that you are in the northern hemisphere. 
(Somewhere near Ujjain is better). 


Then recognise that different celestial bodies are at different distances. 


Ancient Indian Geo-Centric Astronomy — Connections to Scriptures, Astrology and 
History Satya Sarada Kandula 


Know that the earth’s spin makes all celestial bodies appear to rise in the east and set in the west. 


Know that the nakshatras always appear to to rise and set along the same celestial line or longitude. 


By Tau‘olunga : http://commons. wikimedia.org/wiki/User:Tau%CA%BBolunga 


That is why they are called in general fixed stars. 


Know that the Devas/Grahas — Surya (Sun), Chandra (Moon), Kuja (Mars), Budha (Mercury), Guru 
(Jupiter), Sukra (Venus), Sani (Saturn) do NOT rise and set along the same celestial line or 
longitude. The sunrise/other graha-rise position, is to the north or south relative to the previous 
day. 


Observe that, there is a northen-most and a southern-most point for the sun/graha rises and sets. 


Observe that all grahas have anuttaryanam when they tend north and on average and 
dakhsinayanam when the tend south on an average. Observe that some times a graha-rise can 
temporarily shift south during an uttarayanam and or shift west during a dakshinayanam. That is 
called a Vakra or a retrograde movement. 


This entire effect is caused by 


@ the tilt of the earth’s axis to the orbital plane. The earth’s equatorial plane (the horizon as 
we observe it) is at 23.5 deg to the orbital plane. (The tilt increases as the earth slows 
down with age). 


Ancient Indian Geo-Centric Astronomy — Connections to Scriptures, Astrology and 
History Satya Sarada Kandula 


@ a geo-centric view of the movements.. or observable movements. 


Graha Yogas and Nakshatra Yugas : In their north-south movements, grahas can pass by each 
other. 


The moon passes by every nakshatra and every other graha once a month. 


@ So a Chandra Nakshatra Yuga : for eg Chandra Dhanista Yuga occurs once a month. 


@ And a Chandra-Other Graha Yoga (Conjunction) eg Chandra Sukra Yoga also occurs once a 
month. 


Surya passes by every every nakshatra and every other graha once a year. Therefore the Surya 
Nakshatra Yugas take place once a year and the Surya-Other Graha Yogas occur approximately 
once a year (not taking graha vakras into account). 


e The Surya Chandra Yoga occurs every month and we know it as Amavasya or New Moon 
Day. 

e One an average the Surya Sani Yoga occurs once in 30 years and the Guru Aditya(Sun) 
Yoga occurs once in 12 years. (Since the average geo-centric periods of Sani and Guru are 
30 amd 12 years respectively). 

e But for it to be a YUGA, a nakshatra must be involved. So a Guru, Aditya, Dhanishta 

Nakshatra alignment is called a Yugadi and the yuga duration is 12 years, the Kumbha Mela 

duration. 

The Surya, Chandra, Dhanishta Yuga is the Pitamaha yuga and it is 5 years long. 

The Surya, Chandra, Dhanishta, Sani Yuga is 30 years long. (Not used much). 

The Surya, Chandra, Dhanishta, Guru Yuga is the Barhaspatya Yuga and it is 60 years long. 

The Surya, Chandra, Dhanishta, Guru, Sani Yuga is also 60 years long. 


Authorship and Copyright Notice : All Rights Reserved : Satya Sarada Kandula 


Further Reading/ Future Reference/ I am yet to read 


it : http://ees2.geo.rpi.edu/geo2/Homework/HW1solar.pdf 


Ancient Indian Geo-Centric Astronomy — Connections to Scriptures, Astrology and 
History Satya Sarada Kandula 


Measuring distances in degrees in the sky using 
your hand 


Posted by satyask on October 28, 2009 
(Arm Stretched) 


Source : http://books.google.co.in/books?id=fU1VpG1tT9AC&Ipg=PP 1 &ots=9 gD8Wew4bb&dq=a%20walk 
%20through%20the%20heavens%20-“o20heifetz& pg=P A4#tv=onepage& q=&f=false 


Fig.2 


Ancient Indian Geo-Centric Astronomy — Connections to Scriptures, Astrology and 
History Satya Sarada Kandula 


Rtus (Ruthus, Rithus), Seasons 


Rtus (Ruthus, Rithus) 


What are the names of the Vedic seasons: The six-season definition is unique to vedic system and is 
not found in any other recorded culture or system. These seasons are, Vasanta, Geeshma, 
Varsha, Sharad, Himavanta and Shishira each season being about two moon cycles. 


Seasonal Connections with Lunar Months tend to be not very accurate - making corrections 
necessary every 3 and 5 years. In Bangalore, summer starts in March itself. 


CHAITRA MASA - VASANTHA RUTHU (Spring) 
VAISHAKA MASA - VASANTHA RUTHU 

JYESHTA MASA - GREESHMA RUTHU (Summer) 
ASHADA MASA - GREESHMA RUTHU 

SHRAVANA MASA - VARSHA RUTHU (Rainy) 
BHADRAPADA MASA - VARSHA RUTHU 

ASHWAYUJA MASA - SHARAD RUTHU (Autumn) 
KARTHIKA MASA —- SHARAD RUTHU 

MARGASHIRA MASA — HEMANTA RUTHU (end of ‘gold’ — golden skies? or end of ice? — 
Himantha) 

@¢ PUSHYA MASA - HEMANTA RUTHU 

e¢ MAGHA MASA - SHISHIRA RUTHU (cold - winter -?) 
@ PALGUNA MASA - SHISHIRA RUTHU 


Masas and Rtus Names from the Linga Puranam 


@ Ihave not yet worked out the astronomical significance of this passage.., I am saving it for 
our reference. For example, there is an Aditya per month, and Vivasvan is the Aditya for 
the second month of the Sarad Rtu. 

I don’t know why the seasons are listed from grishma and not from vasanta 
Therefore I don’t know if I can map the name Chaitra Masa as used today to Tapa Masa as 
given in the Linga Puranam. 

@ I feel somehow that Chaitra Masam should match Madhumasam., because of the meaning 
of madhu — sweet, honey. 

¢ One more area for research, interpretation and reconciliation. 


Source and Reference: 


1. The sun’s chariot was built by Brahma himself. It is made completely out of gold. (I know a 
shloka where it is said to be made out of iron, but don’t remember which text that is from 
at this time) 


2. There are twelve months in a year. Their names are Madhu, Madhava, Shukra, Shuchi, 
Nabha, Nabhasya, Isha, Urjja, Saha, Sahasya, Tapa and Tapasya. (These names of the 
months are slightly unusual. More common is Vaishakha, Jyeshtha, etc.) 

3. Two months constitute a season (ritu) and there are therefore six seasons in every year. 
These are grishma (summer), varsha (monsoon), sharat (early autumn), hemanta (late 
autumn), shita (winter) and vasanta (spring). 

4. In every season, two adityas, two rshis, two gandharvas, two apsaras, 
two rakshasas and two nagas ride on the sun’s chariot to keep the sun company. Their 
names are as follows. 


Ancient Indian Geo-Centric Astronomy — Connections to Scriptures, Astrology and 
History Satya Sarada Kandula 


1. Grishma - the adityas Dhata and Aryama; the sages Pulastya and Pulaha; the 
gandharvas Tumburu and Narada; the apsaras Kritasthala and Punjikasthala; the 
rakshasas Rakshoheti and Praheti; and the nagas Uraga and Vasuki. Madhu and 
Madhava are the months of grishma. 

2. Varsha - the adityas Mitra and Varuna; the sages Atri and Vasishtha; the 
gandharvas Haha and Huhu; the apsaras Menaka and Sahajanya; the rakshasas 
Pourusheya and Vadha; and the naga Takshaka. (The name of the second naga is 
not given.) Shukra and Shuchi are those of varsha. 

3. Sharat — the adityas Indra and Vivasvana; the sages Angira and Bhrigu; the 
gandharvas Vishvavasu and Ugrasena; the apsaras Pramlocha and Anumlocha; the 
rakshasas Sarpa and Vyaghra; and the nagas Elapatra and Shankhapala. Nabha 
and Nabhasya those of sharat. 

4. Hemanta - the adityas Parjanya and Pusha; the 
sages Bharadvaja and Gautama; the gandharvas Suruchi and Paravasu; the 
apsaras Ghritachi and Vishvachi; the rakshasas Apa and Vata; and the nagas 
Dhananjaya and Iravana. Isha and Urjja those of hemanta. 

5. Shita - the adityas Amshu and Bhaga; the sages Kashyapa and Kratu; the 
gandharvas Chitrasena and Urnayu; the apsaras Urvashi and Purvachitti; the 
rakshasas Vidyut and Diva; and the nagas Mahapadma and Karkataka. Saha and 
Sahasya those of shita. 

6. Vasanta - the adityas Tvashta and Vishnu; the sages Jamadagni 
and Vishvamitra; the gandharvas Dhritarashtra and Suryavarcha; the apsaras 
Tilottama and Rambha; the rakshasas Brahmopeta and Yakshopeta; and the nagas 
Kambana and Ashvatara. Tapa and Tapasya those of vasanta. 

5. The moon (Chandra) has a chariot that has three wheels and is drawn by three 
horses. The horses are competely white in colour. The sun drinks up the energy of the 
moon for a period of fifteen days. This period is known as krishnapaksha (the fortnight 
during which the moon wanes). The sun then replenishes the moon’s energy over the next 
fifteen days. This period is known as shuklapaksha (the fortnight during which the moon 
waxes). 

6. Budha (Mercury) is Chandra’s son and rides a chariot that is drawn by eight horses. 
The horses are yellow and the chariot is made of gold. 


Brihaspati (Jupiter) also has a chariot that is made of gold and is drawn by eight horses. 
But Shani’s (Saturn) chariot is made of iron. 

Just as Indra rules over the gods, the sun rules over the planets and the moon rules over 
the nakshatras (stars) and the herbs. 


Oe 


But all of these revolve around Dhruva (the Pole Star). 


Ancient Indian Geo-Centric Astronomy — Connections to Scriptures, Astrology and 
History Satya Sarada Kandula 


More On Naksatras 


Identifying Nakshatras - Betelguese, Arudra in Orion; 


Aldeberan, Rohini in Taurus; Mrigasira and 
Krutika; Punarvasu, Pollux in Gemini; 


Brahma, Auriga 


Posted by satyask on December 6, 2009 


Identifying Nakshatras - Betelquese, Arudra in Orion 


1. Stand such that Orion’s Belt is tilted up to your right as in the image below. 
2. Then look for the reddish star, to your top left, in the constellation. 
3. Now you are all set for Arudra Darsanam. 


Ancient Indian Geo-Centric Astronomy — Connections to Scriptures, Astrology and 


Satya Sarada Kandula 


fs 


& 

. u 
5 
owl 
u 
wt! 
Xu 
wu 
ral 
a 
me) 
co 
<e 


f 


‘a 


History 


+ 


: 4 


F i 7 j 
_ ae 7 
+ .* frat a a a. 
— . 


ar 
ae te! im) 


* * an 
a tad iia 


\ a . = . 7 
ss ‘ ; .. ‘wa + 


sti. 
& oe a 
. nek, 


Locate Arudra, Betelguese within Orion 


Siva Mithuna Pointsto As per Dr. Balakrisgna, Arab 
‘centre of ‘Alhena’ is the best candidate 
‘Rudra /' universe? for Aardhra. It is 68 minutes or 17 
Aardharaa |1 , | 
degrees (E-W) away 
from Mrigashiras. It is 2 diameters 
out of moon traverse band. 


Identifying Nakshatras — Aldeberan, Rohini in Taurus 


Orion’s belt will point you to Taurus 
Rohini is Sri Krishna’s Janma Nakshatram 
Rohini is also the name of Baladeva’s mother. 


Rohini Nakshtram, is a daughter of Dakhsa and is the favorite wife of Chandra. 


Ot 


Orion's belt 
points the 
way to 


‘Star Stars used for Bharateeya 
| Nakshatra system of names, with 
a brightness of 0.85. Rohiniis 
Prajaapati | identified as birth star of Sri 
/ Chandra fishin: The distance 
| betweenKrittika and Rohini is 
about 12.5 degrees (E-W). Ifa 
‘single star has to be identified as 
‘representing Rohini Nakshatra, 


i) Vrishabha Brightest |Rohini is the brightest of the 27 | 


Rohini|5 


‘best candidate is 87aTau/SAO- 
,94027/HD -29139/ Aldebaran 
Identifying Nakshatras - Pleiades, Kruthika and Mrugasheersham 


1. In the same map, above you can see Kruthika Nakshatram, labelled as Pleiaedes. 

2. There is a small group of 3 stars very close to Betelguese marked on the map above. That 
is Mrigasira. 

3. You can imagine an arc of a circle passing through, Arudra, Mrigasira, Rohini and Krittika. 


‘Dattatreya Maargasira Vrishabha, Brightest , If a single star has 
November paitiuae Full ‘identified as 
r December Moon representingMriga, 
Nakshatra, best 
/ Kuja candidate is 
112b Tau /SAO- 
77168 /HD 
Lb 7 a \-35497/ Elnath. 


| Karthikeya Karthika-October |Mesha, | 'Krittika Nakshatra is ir 
|+ November Vrishab |defined as a set of six 
ha ‘stars. Bharateeyatradition 

has it that Kaartikeya,is 
surrounded by five Apsaras.. 
This set of stars is identified 
by classical European 
‘system as Plaeidis. Brightest 
‘amongst them is called 
Alcyone by Arabs. Ifa 

es \Agni/ ‘single star has to be 
Anke Surya identified as 
representing Krittika 
Nakshatra, best candidate is 
25hAries/SAO-76199/HD- 
'23630/ 
AlCyone. ArundhatiNaksh 
atra (though not a part of the 
'27 day pointing stars) is 
near theX7vittitka. It is said 
to be the eighth star in the 
clusterKrittika(Ref-2). 


‘Mrigasheerisham j3 


Identifying Nakshatras — Punarvasu, Pollux, in Gemini 


1. In the map below, look perpendicular to Orion’s belt through betelguese to find gemini. 
2. Pollux, Punarvasu is in the upper-left corner of Gemini. 


“ Plalades" , 


<> Taurus 


Sri Rama’s | Mithuna, Very Ifa single star | 
mana Punarvas aka Karkatak Bright |has to be 


masa Punarvasu nakshatram | ‘a \Star identified as 
was the day on which Punarvasu, then, 
2- | \Aditi/ 'Dasaratha made the decision '78b Gem/SAO- 
4 | Guru _jregarding Sri Rama’s '79666/HD- 
coronation — Valmiki 62509/’Pollux’ 
[Ramatanam — is the best 
jAyodhyakanda. candidate for 
Punarvasu. It is 


Punarvasu 


‘a very bright 
star of +1.15 
brightness. _ 


a JL ail 


Identifying Auriga — Five Faced Brahma : 


1. Take the limb of Taurus that does not have Rohini in it. 

2. The star “beta”, common to Auriga and Taurus in the drawing below, is the one called El 

Nath. 

Arudra, El Nath and Capella are on a line. 

That will point you to the 5 sided pentagon, the Auriga. 

Auriga has been identified as Brahma by Bapu Dev Sastri who translated the Surya 

Siddhantam. 

6. Do you remember the story where Siva knocked of the 5th head of Brahma which was on 
the top? 

7. That story is connected to this constellation. Capella sounds like Kapala (Skull in Sanskrit) 
does it not? 


OT Gd 


Capella 
e) 


4... Kids" 


Authorship and Copyright Notice : All Rights Reserved : Satya Sarada Kandula 
Rights for sourced material vest with the source. 


For Future Use : Source 


ae See a. see 
onstellatiens of the Zodiac. 
Mee pin See eg cect 


Fg 
r + . ~ * 
Os ads) + 
* 
—7 + r * 
es Y4 . 
r ; 
. ' ‘- r 
* 


Ny Re oe 


; . = Pisces - — ce AN 


es . Path of the Suis x —fTibra 


pavers 


. .Cenricotnus, ¥ KS: - i 7 * * 
= Sagittarius _ zs 


an 
=a: * 
- 
s 7 
at 


’ Scorpius ” °;. 


Moola Nakshatram 


“Moola or Vichruta has been extensively referred to in Atharveda Kaanda 2,Kaanda 3 
and kaanda 6 (Ref 2). Vichruta, stands for darkness and Moolacarries an 

adjective Arishta. This word has two meanings, one standing for sweet and second 
associated with bad associated with death. Astronomically, Moo/a is in line 

with Milkiway (Milky Way) galactic 

center.” http://www.vedicastronomy.net/stars_dhanu.htm 


“If one star is to be identified as Moola, then the best candidate for Moola or Vichruta 
Nakshatra is 42 q OPH from Ophichius zodiac of the European system. It falls in the 
star band and is 50 minutes or 13 degrees (E-W) away from Jyeshta. Its brightness 
is +3.28. Arab Sabik is another strong candidate for Moo/a with +2.43 brightness 
and is also 13 degrees 

from Jyeshta.” http://www.vedi ronomy.n r hanu.htm 


We know that in Sanskrit, Moola means the first, the base, the foundation. And 
Jyeshta means, the older. If Moola is the first Nakshatram, then Jyestha will become 
the last nakshatram. 


“The choice of first Nakshatra must correspond to a logically first day of a solar year, 
which dictates the weather cycles. Which is the year’s first day? Astronomically 

speaking, the spring Equinox day in Northern Hemisphere temperate zone is a logical 
one. It heralds the arrival of the spring, in temperate zone of northern hemisphere of 


the earth.” from http://www.vedicastronomy.net/stars_appendix.htm 


“Rishi Gargya starts the list of twenty seven nakshatra'‘s starting with Krittika. Choice 
of Krittika as the first of twenty-seven is very significant. In contrast Jyotishya 
Shaastra uses Ashwini as the first star” 

from http://www.vedicastronomy.net/stars appendix.htm 


Atharvana Veda Kaanda 19 / Sooktam 7 


attest wfdtrasrrat arene Te: are aTaTe 
TEaA Sphleal Mett wed Ts TTTLTTAT 
OAS, AAA UTA Gel ATE Bret TEIN 


mB he 


got wat areuptt cits grafirar fever renfer seat and 
Tet fee EATEN seaT Terao TET 

aa Cat Wat 7 aes Get STAT ST AEE 
afofr® wat goats sam: stfeaat: apg natin 
ar 3 ngesafirrn, aire ay gen gwar sper 

a Waal Urs at TT ary WEL ewer aT ETE 


I think that it is logical that ‘when the stars were named’, Moola was the first Nakshatram and 


Jyeshta was the last. Therefore I think that the Spring Equinox was in Moola. 

How many years ago was this? 

50.26 seconds of arc shift in 1 year., due to precession. 

Moola to Ashwini is : 240 degrees = 240*60*60 = 864000 seconds of arc 

Shift of the Vernal Equinox from Moola to Ashwini takes place in : 864000/50.26 = 17190.6 years. 


Shift of the Vernal Equinox from Jyeshta (the first, or oldest) to Ashwini takes even longer. 


1. Did our ancestors know astronomy 17200 years ago? 

2. Did our later ancestors know that Moola Nakshatra points to the center of our Milky 
Way Galaxy? and work backwards? 

3. A Rig Vedic verse observes the Winter Solstice in Revati (6500 BC) 


4. Rishi Gargya mentions in the Atharvana Veda, that the Ayana was in Magha and mentions 
Krutika as the first star. Taking these two pointers, Dr. S. Balakrishna has calculated Rishi 
Gargya’s Sookta was composed near 2400 BC, dating Atharvana Veda to at 
least 2400 BC. 


Our Karthika Masam and Dhanur Masam worship prove that, we always that the 
Moola Nakshatram was sacred. 


Dhanur Masam is a Solar Month, when the Sun is in Dhanus (Sagittarius). This rasi 
(Zodiac Sign) begins with the Moola Nakshatram. The Moola Nkashatram points to 
the centre of the Milky Way galaxy. So if you turn to the east and pray at sunrise in 
Dhanur Masam you are actually looking at Vaikuntham. This is a very special time of 


prayer for Vaishnavaites. 
See: http: / /oldthoughts.wordpress.com/2008/10/12/karthika-masam- 


and-dhanur-masam/ 


Moola is also called “Simharksha.” 


Moola Nakshtram in Astrology : 


Chapter 94: Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra : (Source) 11-13. A boy, or girl, born in the 2nd, 
3rd, or 4th quarter of Aslesha Nakshatra, destroys his/her mother-in-law and a boy, or a girl, born 
in 1st, 2nd, or 3rd quarter of Mula Nakshatra, becomes the destroyer of his/her father-in-law. 
Therefore suitable measures, as may be possible within ones means, should be taken at the time of 
the marriage of such boys and girls. There will be no evil effect, if the husband has no elder 
brothers. If we can date this particular verse we will know when the fear of Mula Nakshatra came 


into our society. We must find out if it is actually by Parasara or an interpolation... 


See Also : Moola Nakshatram, as Saraswathi Devi’s_ birthday in the Dasara Navarathri. 


Moola Karthe, Dhanur Masam, Sri Maha Vishnu 


When the sun lines up with or moves past the Moola Nakshatram, we have Moola Karthe. Like 
every karthe, it lasts for about a fortnight. This is a wonderful time for Vaishnavas, since the Moola 
Nakshatram is in the direction of the center of the galaxy, the ksheera sagaram or milky way. So for 
those of us who have faith that Sri Maha Vishnu is there at the center of the milky way, the sun will 


point you to Vaikuntham. (The prescribed time is around sunrise). 


Moola, Purvashada and the first pada of Uttarashada make up the Dhanur Rasi. Since the sun will 


‘transition past these nakshatras from Dhanus Sankranthi to Makara Sankranthi., this solar 


month is called Dhanur Masam as per the Telugu-Sanskrit calendar. Vaishnavas, the devotees of 


Vishnu, offer many special sevas and prayers to Sri Maha Vishnu during this month. 


Revathi Nakshatram 


I have collected what references I could find to Revati in the Vedas and Mahabharata. 


Go here for the story of Revathi in the Bhagavatham and go here for the time analysis of 
the Revati, Raivata, trip to Brahma. 


1) from: Rig Veda Book 5 Hymn 51 


aatad Haar ! 
sated 4 etece arta =e aatae at ated afaT_|| 
aalae TTA ALAC AT PATA | 

GAC Sea aaa ATT TT ATE | 


| let Revati be safe in her path. 


This verse refers to the path of Revathi. That could be the east to west path, observable daily, and 


the interest in Revathi could be that she was the ‘first’ or ‘spring’ star. 


Or it could be that the path refers to the precession of equinoxes - as is indicated by the 
Mahabharata story. To me this would mean, that the path of Revati was observed by the time this 
hymn was written. To observe a precession of 1 degree, it would take a 60 year cycle. (Indian year 


names cycle after 60). 


Between Hipparchus and his student Ptolerny, the greeks figured out the precession of equinoxes 
from 150 BC to 150 AD, over a period of 300 years, by observing Spica (Chitra). It is reasonable to 
think that a family of rishis, would not need more than that period of time to observe the same 
thing — the difference being that they observed the Revathi Nakshatram. If they had better 
observatories and better maths, they could have done it in a shorter period of time. I am sure that 
at least these rishis knew about it: Mrkandu, and his son Markandeya, Vasishtha, his son Shakthi, 


his grandson Parasara and great grandson Vyasa, Bhishma and Krishna. 


2) Rig Veda Book 10 Hymn 86 


(I am yet to translate this mantram.) 


3) yajur Veda kanda 4 iv. 4. 10. This mantram, of the Yajur Veda, starts with Krttika as the first 


nakshatram and states that Pusan is the deity of Revati. 
“Revati the Naksatra, Pusan the deity; “ 


4) SECTION LXXXIII udyoga parva (Mahabharata): Krishna gets ready to go to hastinapura with the 


message of peace, under the Revati Nakshatra 


... The night having passed away, a bright sun arose in the east. The hour called Maitra set in, and 
the rays of the sun were still mild. The month was (Kaumuda Kartika) under the 
constellation Revati. It was the season of dew, Autumn having departed. The earth was covered 


with abundant crops all around. It was at such a time that Janardana....... 
5) SECTION CX: Book 13: Anusasana Parva, Mahabharata: Bhisma’s advice to Yudhisthira. 


“Bhishma said, ‘In the month of Margasirsha, when the moon comes in conjunction with 
the asterism called Mula, when his two feet are united with that very asterism, O king, when 
Rohini is in his calf, when his knee-joints are in Aswini, and his shins are in the two Ashadhas, when 
Phalguni makes his anus, and Krittika his waist, when his navel is in Bhadrapada, his ocular 
region in. Revati, and his back on the Dhanishthas, when Anuradha makes his belly, when with his 
two arms he reaches the Visakhas, when his two hands are indicated by Hasta, when Punarvasu, O 
king, makes his fingers, Aslesha his nails, when Jyeshtha is known for his neck, when by Sravana is 
pointed out his ears, and his mouth by Pushya, when Swati is said to constitute his teeth and lips, 
when Satabhisha is his smile and Magha his nose, when Mrigasiras is known to be in his eye, and 
Chitra in his forehead, when his head is in Bharani, when Ardra constitutes his hair, O king, the vow 
called Chandravrata should be commenced. Upon the completion of that vow, gift of ghee should be 
made unto Brahmanas conversant with the Vedas. As the fruit of that vow, one becomes possessed 
about knowledge. Indeed, one becomes, in consequence of such a vow, as full (of every blessed 


| wm 


attribute) as the moon himself when he is at ful 


SECTION LXXXIX By performing the Sraddha under the constellation Revati one acquires much 


wealth in utensils of white brass and copper. 
Denebola (Uttaraphalguni) and Deneb (?) 


Posted by satyask on December 2, 2009 


Iam on the trail of the 7500 year old supernova explosion near Cygnus. 


Caution : Deneb in Cygnus is not Denebola in Simha. They are not even physically close. 


There are many Denebs. (They are qualified as Deneb Al This or That.) 


e While Cygnus is translated as Swan — Cygnus pronounced as Signus is a variant of Signah 
or Singah (Simha). 

¢ Interestingly again, the nakshatram identified below as Denebola, UttaraPhalguni, is in 
Simha and Kanya Rasis. 

¢ It has been associated with bad luck in some astrological systems as indicated by source A 
below. 

e Source B connects Deneb with Cygnus. 


Leo L Ras Elased Borealis 


é Ras Elased Australis- : 


Denebola 


Witten Tyiexr Garoit 


¢ Source A: “Denebola — sometimes Deneb (meaning “tail”) — is the modern name for 
this star, abbreviated from Al Dhanab al Asad, the Lion’s Tail, 

e the Greek Alkaia (meaning ‘Mallow’); 

@ the 17th century German astronomer Bayer gave it as Denebalecid and Denebaleced; 


¢ English writer on globes John Chilmead (circa 1639), as Deneb Alased; and the 17th 
century German astronomer and ephemeris creator Schickard, as Dhanbol-asadi. The 
Italian astronomer Riccioli (1598-1671) omitted the first syllable of the original, and called 
the star Nebolellesed, Nebollassid “of the Nubian astrologers,” and Alazet apud Azophi, 
his title from the 10th century Persian astronomical writer Al Sufi. Elsewhere it is Nebu- 
lasit and Alesit; the Alfonsine Tables have Denebalezeth and the very 
appropriate Dafira, from the similar Arabic term for the tuft of coarse hair at the end of the 
tail in which the star lies. The English astronomer Proctor (1834-1888) called it Deneb 
Aleet, and there may be other degenerated forms of the original. The 13th century Persian 
astronomical writer Al Kazwini cited Al Aktab al Asad, the Viscera of the Lion, or Al 
Katab, a Small Saddle: inappropriate names, the German astronomer Ideler (1766-1846) 
said, and inferred that they should be Al Kalb, which in the course of time might have 
wandered here from Regulus, the genuine Kalb, or Heart, of the Lion. 


@ It marked the 10th manzil (Arabic Moon Mansion), Al Sarfah, the Changer, i.e. of the 
weather, given by the 15th century Tartar astronomer Ulug Beg as the star’s individual 
title; and the Persian astronomer Al Biruni (973-1048 A.D.) wrote of it: “The heat turns 
away when it rises, and the cold turns away when it disappears.” English writer on globes 
John Chilmead (circa 1639) cited Asumpha, which he attributed to Alfraganus; Baily called 
this Serpha; and the 17th century English orientalist Thomas Hyde changed it to Mutatrix. 

e 6 With the 4th-magnitude FI. 93, it constituted the 10th nakshatra (Hindu Moon _ 
Mansion), Uttara Phalguni, and was the junction star with the adjacent Hasta; the 
regents of this and the next asterism, the Purva Phalguni, being the Adityas, 
Aryaman and Bagha. The Persian astronomer Al Biruni (973-1048 A.D.), however, 
said that Hindu astronomers pointed out to him a star in Coma Berenices as 
forming the lunar station with Denebola; and they claimed that the great scientific 
attainments of Varaha Mihira were due to his birthday having coincided with the 
entrance of the moon into Uttara Phalguni. 

e The Chinese knew it, with four small neighboring stars, as Woo Ti Tso, the Seat of the Five 
Emperors, surrounded by twelve other groups, variously named after officers and nobles of 
the empire. In Babylonian astronomy it marked the 17th ecliptic constellation, Zibbat A., 
the Tail of the Lion, although the German orientalist Epping gives this with considerable 
doubt as to its correctness. Other Euphratean titles are said to have been Lamash, the 
Colossus; Sa. Blue, the Assyrian Samu; and Mikid-isati, the {p. 259} Burning of Fire, 
which may be a reference to the hot season of the year when the sun is near it. 

¢ The Sogdians (an Iranian people) and Khorasmians (east of Persia) had a similar conception 
of it, as shown in their titles Widhuand Widhayu, the Burning One; but the Persians called 
it Avdem, the One in the Tail. Hewitt writes of it as, in India, the Star of the Goddess 
Bahu, the Creating Mother. With theta (@ Coxa), it was the Coptic people of 
Egypt Asphulia, perhaps the Tail; but Kircher had a similar (Greek) Aspolia, in Virgo, as 
from Coptic people of Egypt. 

¢ Denebola was of unlucky influence in astrology, portending misfortune and 
disgrace, and thus opposed to Regulus in character as in position in the figure. 

¢ It comes to the meridian on the 3rd of May, and, with Arcturus and Spica, forms a large 
equilateral triangle, as also another similar with Arcturus and Cor Caroli, these, united at 
their bases, constituting the celebrated Diamond of Virgo.Several small stars, some 
telescopic, in its immediate vicinity, are the Companions of Denebola. [Star_ 

Names, Their Lore and Meaning, Richard Hinckley Allen, 1889].” 


Source B_: “September night sky for mid northern latitudes 


On a weekend or on a holiday if you have a good sunshine you might as well take out your 
binoculars and telescopes and give them a bit of a sunshine so that if some moisture is trapped then 
it would evaporate. Long spell of rains have washed out the dust in the atmosphere and if the sky 


clears up one has a crystal clear sky. 


You can start with southeast where Scorpius, the Scorpion [Vruschik] is still well above the horizon. 
This is one of the constellations that quite resembles its name. The brightest star in this 


constellation is Antares (Jyestha). 


Sagittarius [Dhanur] is following Scorpius. Center of milky way lies in this constellation. This region 
between Scorpius and Sagittarius contains number of clusters and nebulae and it is worth sweeping 
this with a good pair of binoculars. Look for M6 and M7, the best one is M22 a globular cluster. This 
cluster resembles a comet that is just discovered. It appears a fuzzy patch of light through a pair of 


binoculars. 


Turn to west Arcturus, (Swati) is still above the horizon. Turn further right to northwest. Only the 
tail of Ursa Major, Great Bear is now above the horizon. Look for the second last star in the tail 
Mizar. This star is visual binary. It has a companion Alcor. Both the stars can be be seen if you have 


good eyesight. In Indian astronomy Mizar is Vashishtha and Alcor is Arundhati. 


Well above the western horizon, above Bootes, you can trace out Hercules [Shauri]. The object to 


be looked for is M13 a globular cluster. This is a compact cluster of stars. 


To its north is Draco, the Sea Dragon (Kaliya). It winds quite a bit through different right 


ascensions. 


Right overhead is (almost) a right angled triangle of three bright stars. The stars belong to three 
different constellations. Altair [Shravan] in Aquila, the Eagle [Garuda] and Deneb in Cygnus, the 
Swan [Hans] are almost aligned on the north south line. To there is Vega [Abhijit], in Lyra, the Lyre 


[Swaramandal]. 


This group of stars was named summer triangle by Patrick Moor. All the stars are the brightest stars 
in their respective constellations. Vega which is the brightest star in the northern hemisphere. The 


second brightest of the summer triangle is Altair. Shravan is 22nd Nakshatra. 


Look for Albeireo and M39 in Cygnus. Alberieo is a beautiful binary star whose one component is red 
and the other is blue. 5 inch mirror will split them. M39 open cluster or galactic cluster. Easy object 


for binoculars. 


Well above the eastern horizon is one of the ‘land marks’ of the night sky is Great Square of 
Pegasus, the Winged Horse [Maha-ashwa]. You just cannot miss it. The sides of the square are 
almost aligned north-south and east-west. The stars on the western arm of the square make our 
25th nakshatra Purva Bhadrapada and those on the eastern arm are of 26th nakshatra Uttra 
Bhadrapada. Purva and Uttara are in the sense of earlier and later respectively, in their movement 
in the sky and not in the sense of direction. 

Halfway between Pegasus and the horizon is Cassiopeia [Sharmishata]. This is a constellation in ‘M’ 
shape with its right leg pulled too much to right. You might recall that Saptarishis are used for 
finding north direction in the night. This constellation can be used for finding north when Saptarishis 
are below the horizon. Take the first three stars of ‘M’ which make an equilateral triangle. Now take 
perpendicular bisector of the first and star. This line, when extended towards horizon will go 
through the Polaris [Dhruva], Pole Star. Using a pair of binoculars if you scan on the line joining 
third and fourth stars of Cassiopeia and extending to east you will reach a binary open cluster of 


stars h & c. These are lovely pair of star clusters. 


The material here can be used freely. 
It is, however, expected that the source may be acknowledged. 


Credit : Inter-University Centre for Astronomy and Astrophysics, Pune.) 


The site is created for the Public Outreach Programme, IUCAA 
by 

Arvind Paranjpye — arp@iucaa.ernet.in +91 20 2560 4601 
Samir Dhurde — samir@iucaa.ernet.in +91 20 2560 4603 


Page created June, 2007 and Updated Sep, 2007” 


s ‘a P 
gh ss SANMOSRdyO'\, 
ir f mary 
a 


es 


ISAM 


Magnitudes =? : - 


-10 00 10 20 3.0 4.5 went 


“The star map above is drawn for September 15, at 21:00 hours Indian Standard Time (IST) for the 
central station of India. The map shows slightly more sky than that will be visible from this station 
such a way that the map can be used elsewhere in India at 21:00 hers. The map can be used at 


22:00 hrs. in early at 20:00 hrs. later this month. Use a flash light covered with red gelatine paper 
to read in the night.” 


Credit : Inter-University Centre for Astronomy and Astrophysics, Pune. 


teem. ime. came 


Note on Uttara Phalguni : Two stars are at sarne time distance from Poorva Phalguni. If a single 
star has to be identified as Uttara Phalguni, then, as per Dr. Balakrishna, 94 bLeo/SAO 119076 / HD 
102870 is the best candidate, despite Denebola being brighter. Reason is that Denebola is about 5 
diameters out of Moon traverse band while Zavijava is in the moon traverse band. Uttara Phalguni, 


is also called Zavijava by Arabs. 
Authorship and Copyright Notice : All Rights Reserved : Satya Sarada Kandula 


All Rights for Sourced Material Vest with the Source. 


Agni Nakshatram (Kruttika Nakshatram, Karthikeya) 


Posted by satyask on November 3, 2009 


Agni Nakshatram : There is only one Nakshatram that is dedicated to the Vedic Luminary Agni 
(Energy). That Nakshatram is Krutika (Kritika, Krttika). 


¢  Itis Agni Deva who carried the burning Siva Bijam that became Karthikeya (Shanmukha) to 
Ganga who bore him and the Krutika Sisters who raised him. (Amar Chitra Katha Version) 

¢ In the Vedic times Nakshatras were dedicated to Vedic Luminaries such as Indra, 
Agni, Bhaga and so on. (See Nakshatradhipatis from Vedic deities to Grahas, after 
Valmiki’s Ramayana). 

¢ In later day astrology and vimsottari dasa systems, Nakshatras were dedicated 
to grahas such as sukra, kuja etc. The graha nakshatridhipathi for Krutika is Kuja, Mangal 
or Mars. 

¢ Itis interesting to note that: Kuja is now also considered a son of Siva, just like Karthikeya, 
the adopted son of the Krutika sisters and the slayer of Tarakasura. And just as Karthikeya 
was a War-Lord-God who led the Devas to victory, so also Kuja is considered warrior like. 

e §Itis interesting to note that the Mongols, actually call themselves, “Mangals” and they were 
at one time very fierce and warrior like. 


Krittika Nakshatram (Astronomy and Dating) : refers to the set of six ‘sister’ stars. 


e This set of stars is identified by classical European system as Plaeidis. 
Brightest amongst them is called Alcyone by Arabs. 
If a single star has to be identified as representing Krittika Nakshatra, best candidate is 
25hAries AlCyone. 

e Arundhati Nakshatra (though not a part of the 27 day pointing fixed stars) is near 
the Krittitka. It is said to be the eighth star in the cluster Krittika. (Nakshatras, Masas, 
Rtus, Varas, Rasis, Specialities) 

e  Kruthika nakshatra (constellation) constitutes last padam of Mesha (Aries) and the first 3 
padams of Vrishabha (Taurus). ( kruthika: Location = Alcyone, Celaeno, Electra, Taygete, 
Maia, & Asterope:(Pleiades) Eta, 16, 17, 19, 20, & 21 Tauri) 

e The Vedanga Jyothisha begins the count of Nakshatras from Krithika Nakshatram. Today we 
count beginning from Aswhini Nakshatram. This can be interpreted to mean that the spring 
equinox occured in Krithika Nakshatram at the time that verse was composed. 


TET SeraT faguy ie ve: 


atist aaiviresarat ara, we, aeaitr arate 
eat atten Theat arg Te Taeergaret 
Gray Tae UTA Gel AP UseTT sat TET 
stats wat gerta sau, stag: Sate Tas 
BT Ht WeeRTO, athe BI Tt ge atgTer AeA: 

a Waal Uae at aT H We ewer aT RETA 


R.V. 1.164 Autumn Star Agni (Krittika, Alcyone 59.5 long) : Dirgha tamas Rshi. (See : Date of 
Veda Mantras and Equinoxes and Dating Vedas) 


Kruthika Nakshatram and the Moon: Karthika Masam (Lunar Month): 


The lunar month Karthika Masam is named after the Kruthika Nakshatram. This usually occurs in 


or close to the english calendar month of November. 


¢ List of Karthika Masam Celebrations in Andhra : 
o Om Namah Sivaya. Karthika Somavaram and Karthika Pournami today., 
o Ksheerabdi Kanya — Sree Mahalakshmi — Ksheerabdi Dwadasi 


¢ Connecting Karthika Masam Celebrations of USA and India : Halloween, Karthika 
Pouranami, Yama Deepam 


Kruthika Nakshatram and the Sun: Kruthika Karte: 


The fortnight called Kruthika Karthe occurs in the month of May. 


e Kruthika Karthe Clebraions in Tamil Nadu: Tamilians, who follow the solar calendar, 
celebrate Kruthika Karthe, under the nameAgni Nakshatram Festival. It is celebrated in 
honour of Siva’s son Karthikeya also revered as Murugan, Palani, Subrahmanya, 
Kumaraswamy among many other names. 

* Source: “Agni Nakshatram is a 14-day period in May, the hottest part of the year. It is the 
season when devout persons go round the hill in the Giri Veedi as much out of faith as for 
reasons of health, in the early morning (1 am. to 10 a.m.) and evening (4 to 10 pm) in 
large numbers. Just now, the kadamba trees (Eugenia Racemosa), favourite flora 
of Murugan, are in full bloom all around the hill shedding their fragrance and conveying 
healing properties to all the walkers. At Kodumudi (Periyar District), ardent devotees by 
the thousands collect Cauvery water in scorching sun and bring it in kavadis for abhishekam 
of the deity and the sanctum sanctorum at the hill is a large pool of water! It is so cool that 
one forgets the summer-heat. The water bearers are accompanied by artistes in a variety 
of folk-music and folkdance items. Their procession by itself is colorful and difficult to 
forget. On the concluding day, the festival deity of the Periyanadyaki Temple marches to the 
Adivaram and there is a majestic procession round Giri Veedi.” 


Onam - Thiru Onam - Shrona - Sri Ona - Sravana 


Posted by satyask on September 19, 2009 
Chingam Rasi — Simha Rasi. The months followed in Kerala are the solar months. 


Thiru Onam Nakshatram - Sravana Nakshatram - Connected to Vamana (Hindu paper article gives 


it as birth star of Vamana - Trivikrama) 


Onam is the day when Mahabali comes to visit Kerala. Mahabali visits Karnataka on Bali Padyami, 


the day next to Deepavali. He visits Andhra on Mahasankranthi day! 


P.S. There is a custom in Kerala, where the king is referred to by his janmanakshatram 


(janmanalu). 


One of the famous kings is Sri Chitra Tirunal. Present king is Uttarada (Uttarashada) Thirunal 


Marthanda Varma. 


Locating Purusha (Vishnu) : Using Purusha 
Suktham (Rig Veda 


Posted by satyask on March 8, 2010 


\ 
7, 
ato, 


http://rajandraws.wordpress.com 


The 90th suktham of the tenth mandala of Rg Veda Samhita, is the puruSa sUktam. The 


Vajasaneyi Samhita of the Shukla Yajur Vedam, the Taittriya Aranyaka of the Krishna Yajur Vedam, 


the Sama Veda, and the Atharvana Veda, also contain the Purusha Suktham with slight variations. 


Free Audio Online : http://www.vedamantram.com/audio/purusha.mp3 (with Yajur Veda 


Swara Chanting) 


The Purusha Suktam is one of the Pancha Suktams of the Sri Vaishnava sampradaya or 
tradition. The other four are the Narayana Suktam, Sri Suktam, Bhu Suktam, and the Nila 
Suktam. In South India, the Purusha Suktam, Vishnu Suktam, Sri Suktam, and Narayana 
Suktam are generally chanted together in paarayanam. The Sri Rudram, Purusha 
Suktam, Upanishads, the Gita, and the Vishnu Sahasra Naamam are also recommended 
for daily paarayanam - chanting. Since the Purusha Suktam is seen in all Vedas, it is 
cited as the essence of all Srutis by Veda Vyasa in 

the Mahabharata. Saunaka, Apastamba, and Bodhayana have also written concerning 


__ the use of the Purusha Suktam. (Source) _ 


Starting from the first mantram of the puruSa sUktam, there are variations in translations provided 


by various sources. 


Mantra: 
SCS TER: I sabasraacsha yaenishabs | 
ape oT a painaratshaly enhascApal | 
q fa frat Ter | fe TeeTiaulas viFvstd riya | 
aretiress Trea | alyatisid bud dasisigylon | 


sahasra s’IrSA puruSah | sahasrAkSah sahasrapAt | 
sa bhUmim vis’vato vRtvA | atyatiSTat das’Angulam |] 1 || 


Translation : 


The puruSa has thousands or infinite (sahasra) of heads (s’IrSA), thousands of eyes (AkSah) and 


thousands of feet (pAt). (See : Many eyes, many arms, many heads and many feet) 


He, having encircled (vRtvA) the earth (BUmim) with the universe (vis’vato : from all sides) 

(See : Agne yam yagnyam adhvaram visvatah paribhurasi) 

Stood beyond it at a distance of 10 thumb lengths. (This line is variously interpreted. Word by word 
given below.) 

ati = beyond, atisTat = stood, dasa = 10, angula = inch, length of a thumb. See : The Harappan 


angulam | varnam 


The Meaning : 


The Purusa of infinite capabilities (intelligence, strength, skill etc), enveloped the earth with the 


universe (stars, galaxies.. etc) and stood beyond at about 10 inches’ (a foot approx), length. 


Interpretation : 


Vishnu is beyond Dhruva (Polaris), the furthest observable star to the north along the earth’s axis, 


which makes tiny revolutions about the axis. That is where He stands. 


The reference to 10 thumbs may have to do with angular measurements that can be made by hand. 


See Measuring distances in degrees in the sky using your hand 10 thumbs would be 20 


degrees. 


Agastya - Canopus 
All Rights Reserved: Satya Sarada Kandula 


The article in the link quoted below makes a connection between canopus and Agastya. It 
makes 2 sets of assumptions and calculations arrives at a date for Agastya around 4000 


BC. 


Assumption set A: 


e The nakshatram Canopus was named Agastya after the Rishi Agastya. 
¢ This was so because he was the first sanskrit northerner to sight it. 
e He sighted it as soon as he crossed the Vindhyas. 


Calculations: 


e Agastya (Canopus) was visible in the north of the Vindhyas only after 5200 BC and in 
Kurukshetra (Delhi) only from 3100 BC assuming that for a star to be visible its meridian 
altitude has to be at least 5°. 


e Agastya (Canopus) was visible in the north of the Vindhyas only after 4000 BC assuming 
that for a star to be visible its meridian altitude has to be at least 4°. 


Conclusion A: 


e  Agastya Rishi’s Vindhya Crossing was between 4000 BC and 5000 BC. 


Assumptions B: 


e Agastya started the first Sangam. 
e The last Sangam ended around 0 BC. 
e Each Pandyan king ruled for 20 years. 


Calculations B: 


@ There were 89, 59 and 49 Pandyan kings in each of the Sangams. 
e (89+59 + 49) * 20 = 3940 years 


Conclusion B: Agastya’s time was 4000 BC 
Notes: 


from: http://www.ias.ac.in/currsci/dec252005/2174.pdf by K.D. Abhyankar. 


1. Agastya, is the author of 25 hymns (nos 166 to 190) of the first ‘mandala’ of the Rigveda. 
2. Canopus, the second brightest star in the night sky, is called Agastya in India. 


10. 


11. 


This star is close to the ecliptic south pole, having an ecliptic latitude of -76°. 

As the celestial poles go round the ecliptic poles due to the phenomenon of precession of 
the earth’s axis of rotation, this star becomes visible from different latitudes on the globe at 
different times. If we assume that for a 

star to be visible at a place its altitude at the meridian passage should be at least 5°, then 
calculations give the visibility curve for Agastya (Canopus). 

Agastya was not visible from any part of India before 10,000 BC. 

First it became visible at Kanyakumari around that epoch. Thereafter, as it was brought 
more and more northwards by precession, it became visible at various places in India. 


It became visible in the east coast (in the present Chennai region) in 8500 BC, and in the 
present day Hyderabad in 7200 BC, in the Vindhya region in 5200 BC, at Defhi in 3100 
BC. 

At present it is visible from most parts of India for longer or shorter durations. This cycle 
will repeat after every 25,725 years. It is thus clear that around 5000 BC, the star Agastya 
was visible from the south of the Vindhyas, but not from the north of it. 

If sage Agastya was the first to cross the Vindhyas from the north, he would have been the 
first northerner to see the star. Hence the star has been named after him, just as the 
Magellanic clouds in the southern sky are named after the navigator Magellan, who first 
saw them as he sailed southwards. 

This fixes an epoch of 5000 BC for sage Agastya. This date is based on the assumption that 
for a star to be visible its meridian altitude has to be at least 5°. 

If we make 8° meridian altitude as the criterion for visibility, the date of Agastya would be 
shifted to about 4000 BC. The dates 5000 and 4000 BC should therefore bracket the 
probable epoch of Agastya crossing the Vindhyan mountains. 


Tamil literature tells us about the three Sangams which were patronized by 89, 59 and 49 Pandyan 
kings respectively. The first Sangam was supposed to have been started by Agastya and the last 
Sangam ended sometime at the beginning of the Christian era. we have 197 kings between these 
two dates. If we assume a span of 20 years for each king on an average, we get a total period of 
about 4000 years, which would place Agastya’s epoch around 4000 BC, in agreement with the 


astronomical dating. 


Dhruva Nakshatram 


Click for Story of Dhruva 


Dhruva is the name of the Pole Star. It means The Firm. 

The following points have been noted from a KEYNOTE ADDRESS, titled, Creation of 
Time as per Srimad Bhagavatam by Dr.K. Sivananda Murty, Anandavanam, 
Bheemunipatnam. 

“Dhruva is granted by Vishnu a permanent deathless place far above the great bear 
(Saptarshis). The place is described as Dhruvamandalameaning a fixed point 
identified as the Pole Star. Vishnu describes this point as the one around which the 
seven rishis (Saptarshis or the Great Bear) circumambulate in a period of 2600 years 
while the stars or the Ecliptic completes one revolution around that place in a period 
of 26000 years. Vishnu assures him that his place remains unaffected even when the 
three worlds below i. e. Bhuh, Bhuvah and Suvahare destroyed.” 

In the same episode of Dhruva, it is said that Dhruva married one Bhrami, the 
daughter of Prajapati Simsumara and he had two sons from her named Kalpa and 
Vatsara, the aeon3 and the year. These names are evidently indicating heavenly 
phenomena. Dhruva, the fixed point of the Pole Star weds Bhrami, the principle of 
motion. This is the result of his position with reference to Simsumara, the Ecliptic. 
This wedlock or the juxtaposition of the Pole point with the Ecliptic results in a 
relative periodic motion. The periods of time involved are the year and the aeon. This 
indicates the stabilization of the Pole Star with a fixed distance Northward from the 
Ecliptic. The Sun’s travel on the Ecliptic is the aeon while the earth’s revolution round 
the Sun is one year. Earlier the person Dhruva was ordained to stay at the Polar Point 
for 26000 years when the Taramandala and the Grahamandala complete one 


pradakshina around him. This should be the aeon referred to here. 


“Dhruva’s son was Vatsara, the year. Vatsara’s son Pushparna (the colourful) 
indicates a long dusk time. His wives Prabha and Dosha represent the day and the 
night. Parbha, the day gave birth to three sons - Praatah, Madhyandina and 
Saayamkala namely the morning, the midday and the evening. His wife Dosha (night) 
also gave birth two three sons, pradosha (nightfall), Niseedhi (midnight), and Vyushti 
(the predawn). Vyushti’s grandson was Chakshusa,the second Manu and as the very 


name indicates it marked the beginning of the visible dawn of human life on earth.” 


More on Masas 


Margasira Month (Nov-Dec) Celebrations 


Mrigasira means the head of an animal (deer). The lunar month Margasira Masa is named after 
Mrgasira Nakshatram. 
Mrgasira may be El Nath. 


Sivaratri_: Though, as per the Siva Purana (retold by Ramesh Menon)., : Sivaratri is on the day of 
the Arudra Nakshatra of Margasira Masa.. Please See : Tamil and Hindi Calendar Month Name 
Variations with Sanskrit (Telugu) Month Names 


December: December is a big celebration for Ayyappa devotees. Ayyappa is the son of 
Shiva and Vishnu as per general belief. The time of celebration (late December) and the 
link with both Shiva and Vishnu interest me. December seems to be important both for 
Moola nakshatram (Dhanur Masam - Vishnu — see one of my earlier posts) and Arudra 
nakshatram (Margasira masam - Arudra darsanam —- Siva - see my notes below). 


Late December is also important for the Winter Solstice - the Sayana commencement of Uttarayana 
- Christmas and for Datta Jayanti. (Sayana system refers to moving tropical zodiac and niryana 
refers to the immovable sidereal (stellar zodiac. The tropical zodiac refers to the seasons and the 
sidereal zodica refers to stellar alignments. The tropical zodiac is affected by precession. The 
sidereal zodiac has corrections for precession built in) 


Arudra Darsanam : 
skandha purANam describes Arudra Darsanam. When the sun shines in the dhanur rAsi that is in 
the month of mArkazi, in the day of thiruvAdhirai (Arudra) for which Rudra is the devata this vratam 


is observed. (Source) 

The pre-dawn hours of the full moon night, i” the month with the longest nights in the year 
(coinciding with the asterism of Tiruvadirai in the tamil month of Margazhi) marks the 
auspicious time for Arudra Darisanam — of Nataraja in Saivite temples all over Tamilnadu. (Source) 


SivaRatri_ : (Source) 


skandha purANam describes four shiva rAtris. The first one is nitya shivarAtri (daily shivarAtri - 
every night). The second one is the mAsa shivarAtri which is observed on the kRiShNa 
paksha chaturdasi (fourteenth moonday on the moons diminishing phase). The third one is 

the mAgha prathamAdi shivarAtri which is observed for the thirteen days starting from 
prathama titi in the month mAga (mAsi) and on the chaturdasi night the Lord is 


worshiped throughout the night. 


The fourth one is observed on the mAsi (mAga) month kRiShNa paksha chaturdasi. This is the one 


observed in a widespread manner. It is also called mahA shivarAtri. 


Notes from http:/ /indiantemples.com/Tamilnadu/arudra.html : 


1. The eighth day (Dec 21) witnesses a procession of Bhikshatanar commemorating legends 
associated Shiva’s and Vishnu’s tripthrough Daarukaavanam in the guise of Bhikshaatanar and 


Mohini 


Notes : from http://www.dattapeetham.com /india/talks/christDatta.html™ 


1. The planet Jupiter, changes from one Raashi ( twleve astrological signs. Aries, 
Capricorn etc) to another every year. During the period of retrograde it slows down but 
still it makes up for the slowness and on an average it changes the Raashi house every 


year. This change generally happens in the last week of the month December. 


2. Lunar months are named after the starting Nakshatras of the Rasis. Thus Margasira month is 
named after the Mrgasira nakshatra. the full moon of the Magha Masa generally occurs in 


December. 


3. Dattatreya was born on the full moon day of Mrigashira month. That is why Datta 


Jayanti happens in December only. 


4. In december the sun will be in Dhanus Raashi (Sagittarius). On 14th January every 


year sun moves to the next sign i.e. Makara (Capricorn). 


Uttarayanam is defined in 2 ways, in the sayana system as the winter solstice and niryana system 


as Makara Sankramanam. 


From that day (14th January) the period of Uttaraayana commences(Uttarayana is the period from 
14 January to 14 July). The commencement of this Uttarayana happens around January 14th in the 
system of Nirayana only (Sidereal calculations). But in Sayana system (Tropical calculations), Sun 
starts his Uttarayana period in the last week of December. The system of Sayana observes the 
movement of sun and corroborates and finalises the astrological calculations on sun. Presently, this 
movement of Sun to Uttarayana happens either on 22nd or 23rd of December. But about 2000 


years ago (when Jesus was born) this change used to happen on December 25th every year. 


5. The word December is from the calendar we use today, i.e. Gregorian calendar. This type of 


calendar system was started in 1580 by Pope Gregory XIII. “ 


Geetha Jayanthi - Vaikuntha Ekadasi 


The Geeta Jayanti Day is 11th day (Ekadasi) of the bright half (Sukla Paksha) of the month of 
Margasira. It coincides with Vaikuntha Ekadasi. It was the day the Bhagavad Gita was revealed 


to Arjuna, by Sri Krishna. This year it is celebrated on the 28th Nov. Though ekadasi “starts” on 
27th afternoon, it is the tithi at sunrise that counts. That is why 28th Nov will be celebrated as Gita 
Jayanti. 


(This year Bakrid falls on the same day. Idu’l Juha Bakrid annually falls on the 10th day of the 
month of Dhul Hijja of the lunar Islamic calendar. Idu’l Juha is the latter of two Eid festivals 


celebrated by Muslims, Eid al-Fitr and Eid al-Adha (For legend see : Source) (Why is our 11th day 


their 10th day? also Interesting legend points water springing from the earth and the role of the 


ram — Future Analysis )). 


The Geeta Jayanti Samaroh Festival is celebrated in Kurukshetra. (The location of the Mahabharata 
war.) The devotees bathe in the holy water of the sacred tanks — Sannihit Sarovar and Brahma 
Sarovar. The week long festival witnesses wonderful events like Shloka recital, dance, Bhagawatam 


reading, Bhajans and dramas. (Source) 


The place of the original Gitopadesa is marked in kurukshetra by a marble sculpture and may be 


seen by tourists and piligrims. 


The festival of Geeta Jayanti Samaroh is organized by Kurukshetra Development Board of Haryana 
Tourism, District Administration, North Zone Cultural Centre Patiala and Information and Public 


Relations Department Haryana.(Source) 


The Gita was given to us about six thousand years ago by Sri Krishna, the Lord incarnate, 


through His most devoted disciple, Arjuna. Its teachings are based on the 


sacred Upanishads. (Source) 


e Fora list of all ekadasis and their significance 
see : http: //www.salagram.net/ekadasilistinfo.htm 
¢ Fora modified story of Vaikuntha Ekadasi based on the 


brahmanda purana see :http://www.salagram.net/ekadasi-2.htm(fasting on this day 


is highly recommended). 
¢ For more on Margasira Masa : See http://oldthoughts.wordpress.com/sivaratri- 
december-margasira/ 


Common belief is that the gates to Vaikunta are held open in this day and that it is a divine day to 


leave one’s mortal coils. 


Arudra is generally accepted as Betelguese.. though sri Balakrishna argues well in favour of Al- 
Hena. I think Betelguese, because I think that points to “center” of the universe.. which I think 
is Siva. 
Notes and Picture: from http://www.vedicastronomy.net/compare_mithuna.htm 

r Ss 


—/. + Puna 


“The figure shows Mithuna raashi or the Gemini Constellation. The vedic Jyotishya states 
that this Raashi consists of Mrigashira (50% in Mithuna), Aardhra(100% in Mithuna) 

and Punarvasu (75% in Mithuna). R.H.Allen’s identifies Betelguese (Ori-58a) 

as Aardhra (Ref-1,page 311). Balakrishna identifies Al-Hena as Aardhra. R.H.Allen identifies 
Castor as Punarvasu (Ref-1,Page 331), while Balakrishna identifies Pollux as Punarvasu. 
Clearly the proposed identities of these nakshathra’s are different. Allen’s Aardhra is within 
5 degrees of his Mrigashira and is a part of constellation Orion. It is 16 degrees away from 
ecliptic. Balakrishna’s identities are within the proper range ofNakshathra’s. Also they are 


within 2 degrees of moon traverse band.” (Needs more study) 


Authorship and Copyright Notice : All Rights Reserved : Satya Sarada Kandula 


Karthika Masam and Dhanur Masam 


Posted by satyask on October 12, 2008 


Copyright Notice : All rights reserved : Satya Sarada Kandula 


Karthika Masam is a lunar month. The full moon of this month is near the Kruthika nakshatra 
(constellation) which is last padam of Mesha (Aries) and the first 3 padams of Vrishabha (Taurus). 
(kruthika: Location = Alcyone, Celaeno, Electra, Taygete, Maia, & 
Asterope: (Pleiades) Eta, 16, 17, 19, 20, & 21 Tauri) 


The Mondays of Karthika Masam are special to S’iva. 


Karthika Masam starts the day after Deepavali. The festival of lights starts from the new moon of 


the previous month (Deepavali Amavasya) and goes on to the full moon of Karthika Masam. 


The brightest full moon occurs close to the winter solstice, which occurs in the month following 
karthika Masam. (Margasira Masam). That is when the moon is nearest the earth (its perigee) and 
the earth is nearest the sun. The moon is closer (therefore bigger) and receives 7% more sunlight 


and is therefore brighter as well. 


4 days before this brightest full moon of the year is Vaikuntha Ekadasi, when the gates to Vaikuntha 


(Vishnu’s abode) open. People fortunate enough to die on that day go to Vaikuntha. 


Dhanur Masam is a Solar Month, when the Sun is in Dhanus (Sagittarius). This rasi (Zodiac Sign) 
begins with the Moola Nakshatram. The Moola Nkashatram points to the centre of the Milky Way 
galaxy. So if you turn to the east and pray at sunrise in Dhanur Masam you are actually looking at 


Vaikuntham. This is a very special time of prayer for Vaishnavaites. 


(Moola: Location =The Scorpion’s Tail: epsilon, mu, zeta, eta, theta, iota, kappa, 


upsilon (Lesath) & lambda (Shaula) Scorpionis) 


Dhanur Masam ends with Makara Sankramanam or the Sun entering Capricorn. This coincides with 
the harvest festival (mid Jan). The sun has reached the southern extreme point and starts rising 


more to the north everyday, everyday for 6 months. This is Uttarayana Punya kalam. 


People who die in Uttarayanam, don’t come back to be reborn on Earth. Bhishma waited for 
Uttarayanam before he let himself die. The day he died is Bhishma Ekadasi. 


Arudra is in Mithuna (Gemini). Arudra points to Rudra or Siva. It is on the other side of the Zodiac 
from Moola. The Puranas tell that Siva is so large that Brahma and Vishnu could not find his ends. 


(Arudra: Location = Betelgeuse: alpha Orionis) 


Does Siva represent the Universe where Vishnu represents the galaxy/galactic centre? I have found 


so many direct clues to Vishnu, but so far Arudra is my only clue to Siva. 


The other clues to Siva are Sivarathri which occurs in February, when it suddenly stops being cold 


and of course karthika masam. 
Clues to Krishna: 
The Visakha constellation is also called Radha. 


Rohini (father’s wife), Revathi (brother’s wife) and Phalguna (Arjuna) and Bhadra (Balarama) are 


constellation names that match the names of important people in Krishna’s life. 


Krishna was born in Sravana Masam, when the full moon is frequently close to the Srvana 


nakshatram. 


“Rohini is the brightest of the 27 Stars used for Bharateeya Nakshatra system of 
names, with a brightness of 0.85. Rohini is identified as birth star of Sri krishna. The 
distance between kKrittika and Rohini is about 12.5 degrees (E-W). If a single star has 
to be identified as representing Rohini Nakshatra, best candidate is 87a Tau/SAO- 
94027/HD -29139/ Aldebaran.” Rohini is fully in Vrishabha Rasi. 


Ancient Indian Astronomers 


The 18 Ancient Astronomical Siddhantas. 


Posted by satyask on June 28, 2009 


The 18 Ancient Astronomical Siddhantas are as follows. While the general view is that the oldest 
Siddhanta is the Surya Siddhanta, it is stated in the Sambhu Hora Prakasa that Soma Siddhanta is 
the first, Brahma Siddhanta is the second and that Surya Siddhanta is the third. 


1. Surya 
2. Brahma 
3. Vyasa 
4. Vasishtha 
5. Atri 

6. Parasara 
7. Kasyapa 
8. Narada 
9. Garga 
10. Marici 
11. Manu 

12. Angirasa 
13. Lomasa 
14. Pulisa 
15. Cyavana 
16. Yavana 
17. Bhrgu 


18. Saunaka or Soma 


Daksha : He named the fixed stars! (Narrative) 


Emergence of Daksha 


Daksha waited outside looking at the sky, waiting for the sun to set. He loved the 
moment when the stars started twinkling into existence, at first one by one and later 
several at a time as daylight faded. He loved to look at the sky. There was nothing as 
beautiful and as precise and predictable as the sun and the moon and the stars. 

He was young, strong, handsome and very fond of his lovely wife, Prasuti. They called 
him Daksha, the dexterous! They said he was born of the thumb of Brahma. Daksha 
laughed., they just said any old thing. What if some fool were to take them literally? 
Brahma worried about that laughter. ‘This one is just too confident of himself’, he 
thought. ‘They will think he is arrogant”. 


“And who is “they”? father,’ he would ask. ” ‘They’, that think things and label 
people.. | have no time for such vague people or vague statements.” 


“Must be brother Manu,” he thought. “I have never seen another being with views so 
rigid. He and Bhrgu! Always talking of ethics and purity and rules. So sure that they 
were better than everyone else! Actually, one had to concede that Bhrgu was a 
wizard of sorts.. he could cure people of anything and was not in the least scared of 
the muck that people had under their skin or the icky stuff that oozed out. 

And Manu was a legal wizard, and expert at sociology and principles that governed 
the behaviour of people. Sometimes though, he didn’t see people as .. well human 
people!” 

Prasuti laughed. “Careful when you criticise my father,” she said warningly. “You are 
no bundle of humility!” 


“Send my darling little Sati to me, | want to show her something”, he told his wife. 
Daksha thought that his daughter Sati was the Devi herself. Brilliant, beautiful, 
insightful, gentle, brave and proud! None of that timid deference that other women 
were given to. She was fearlessness personified. 


“Father, here | am”, she said. ‘Are you going to show me the stars again?” she asked 
happily. Daksha smiled a ‘yes’ at her. 


“That there in the east is where the stars, sun and moon rise”, he said, “and there in 
the west is where they set. And your grandfather Brahma showed me how the sun 
and the moon rise a little more towards the north every day for half the time and a 
little more to the south every day for half the time.” 


“| know!” yelled Sati. “And that there is Thatha’s favorite star - Shravista (now called 
Dhanishta) towards the south”. Daksha put on a serious expression. “| need your help 
to do a little project young lady!” he said. “First, for a whole month we are going to 
watch the moon, and we are going to watch which stars he is near and how much 
time he spends with each one. And we’ll number them.” 

“No, we’ll give them names” Sati said. “Alright, and we’ll make a little model out of 
bamboo strips bent into perfect circles and stick little bits of clay to mark the special 
stars” said Daksha. “If | name the stars ‘they’ will call them my daughters”, he 
sighed. 


“But ‘we’ don’t care what ‘they’ think, do we father?”, she asked. “No, we don’t”, he 
said. Their project ran into several months as they made their model more and more 
accurate. The stars had to be bright, easy to distinguish and equally spaced along the 
north-south as well as along the east-west axes. Some Stars were a little closer 
together and some were a little further apart. On some nights Bhrgu joined them. 
When her uncle Bhrgu came over, Sati used to point out the patterns she saw in the 
sky. “Do you see that goat’s head? That star there is Asvini” she said. “And do you 
see that bull? It is my Siva who rides it, we call that star aRudra, because it is 
reddish..” 


Bhrgu turned to Daksha. “What is this talk of ‘my Siva’ ?” he demanded. “She’s a 
child,” Daksha replied. 

“Manu says that a girl is a young lady at 8 years” said Bhrgu. “You just made that up, 
you are the one who does all that biology stuff. Not Manu!” said Daksha. 


Prasuti intervened, “Whoever said it, Sati is a young lady and you are not raising her 
like a girl. You keep her up late and fill her head with stars and numbers. She takes 
no interest in dressing and housework. How long do you plan to do this?’ 


Daksha said “Sati is Devi herself. When she sits next to me the heavens light up and 
so does my brain. | can think clearly and understand perfectly. Narry a cloud blocks 
my vision. Stars or no stars, she is not an ordinary girl’. 


After Bhrgu left, Prasuti spoke to Daksha, “When she is not talking stars and numbers 
to you, she is talking about Siva to everyone else, she has decided to marry him.” 


Daksha was in a dilemna. While he did not technically believe in jathis or races, he 
did not actually think his daughter would choose someone whose parentage was 
unknown and unknowable. What a headache! Manu would give him an earful. Manu 
and Bhrgu wanted what they called racial purity. They believed that the descendants 
of Brahma should keep together and marry only within the clan. There was no use to 
talking to them. 

Daksha called on Vasishtha. ” ‘They’ say you are born from the mind of our father 
Brahma”, he said. Vasishtha laughed, ” ‘They’ should be careful, some folks might 
take them literally,” he said. “What they really mean to say is that | have understood 
his thought and wisdom in its essence, but ‘they’ like shortcuts, it makes it more 
poetic!” 

Daksha spoke “I have a real issue. My daughter Sati has set her heart on Siva. They 
say that he has three eyes and lives in a cremation ground with snakes and other 
animals. He is definitely not one of us, not a brahmana. Manu won’t like this.” 
Vasishtha said,” It is not Manu’s life. It is Sati’s. You know that | am going to marry 
Arundhati. She is not a brahman either. Manu understands sociology - how most 
people can be made to conform to rules that will benefit the society as he 
understands it. But he does not appear to get psychology, how individuals feel and 
behave. We are not here to create a pure race. We are here to understand the 
divine.” 


He paused, then continued “By the way your little girl has been telling me all about 
your project. | think that if people aligned their life events to the stars, then life would 
be orderly, dates would be easy to remember and we would know which dates are 
luckier than others.” 


Daksha groaned, ” Not you too. Our genius brother Bhrgu has started mapping out 
thousands of combinations of what he calls ‘horoscopes’, based on these star 
positions that | am working out. He is gathering data of everyone he knows and 
making predictions for everyone that may ever be born at any time. He says his 
daughter Sridevi is helping him with this”. 


The next day, there was a family debate. “Individual freedom and Aspirations Vs 
Social Order and racial purity.” No one would grant the other’s point. When Bhrgu 
tried to say something, they shushed him saying - “You believe in destiny and fate. 
What right do you have to debate when you don’t even believe in free will?” 


Prasuti spoke,” Racial purity will require controlling women ... and men for that 
matter. If a father has the ultimate right to gift his daughter to a worthy man, then 
she forfeits her right to marry the penniless man that she loves. It is against free 
choice”. 


Manu said, “Na Stri Svatantram Arhati - A woman does not deserve freedom”. Prasuti 
got upset but did not wish to contradict her father. Then Sati spoke laughingly, “Yaa 
Stri Svatantram Chahati, Saa stri Svatantram Arhati! - That woman who desires 
freedom, deserves it!” Manu looked at Sati. When she spoke it wasn’t like a human 
debating a rule. It was like a divine decree. She was like the Devi herself. 


Daksa said, “Father, in a short time the sun will set and Sati and | have to work on 
our project. Prasuti won’t let us work on an empty stomach. Let’s discuss this some 
other time”. Vasisihtha and Sridevi, Bhrgu’s daughter, also wanted to go with 
Daksha. 


Bhrgu and Manu stayed back with Brahma. “They will think you are a bigot, Manu, 
you have to ease up a little.” said Brahma. 


Manu spoke, “But father, that is because ‘they’ never hear me out completely. 
Daksha does not even treat sociology like a proper subject. | am not talking of racial 
purity as they try to project. ‘They’ claim that | am talking about racial purity and 
then they force me to defend a stand that they project on me. Some fool might 
believe them.” 


He continued, “What | am talking if high specialisations, in mathematics, science, 
philosophy and engineering that will come if families dedicate themselves to a 
profession. Look at Daksha, he learnt Astronomical Siddhantam (it is now called 
Pitamaha Siddhantam) from you, his father and he is teaching his daughter now. 
Bhrgu and Vasishtha are learning from his observations and enhancing their work. 
That is community, family and clans working, whether are not Daksha and Vasishtha 
agree. Viswakarma and his family are brilliant with architecture, goldsmithy and city 
planning. | hear that he has made a bow for Vishnu, that has to bee seen to be 
believed. If you allow our country to specialise in their professions on family lines, 
this will be the greatest of all countries. No one will hold back their knowledge from 
their darling children.” 

Brahma said, “I understand you. By the way, | have seen your work on time 
measurement. That is excellent. And your piece on ethics and law is brilliant. It is just 
the rules that you have made which curtail individual freedom that people resent. 
Happiness lies in self-determination. People want choice.” 


Manu said, “I don’t care much for all that psychology stuff, Vasishtha goes ON about 
it, so. Individuals must restrain themselves and follow rules for the benefit of society. 
The well-being of an individual lies in the well-being of the country.” Bhrgu looked at 
Manu with great admiration. He said, “I guarantee that my children andtheir 

children remember every word you Say. | will train them to make any sacrifice for the 
well-being of this country.” 

At Daksha’s place, Sati had taken upon herself the role of the official sookesperson of 
their project. She showed Sridevi, the pole star that had never moved in all their 
months of observation. “We call it Dhruva, the firm”, she said. “Uncle Vasishtha says 
that it can be attained only by a person of great and unflinching resolve to a noble 
cause.” 

As the stars appeared at different times on different nights, she would point them 
out. One day she pointed atAuriga. “We name that one after Thatha, our grandfather, 
Brahma.” she said. “Uncle Vasishtha!”, she called, “Can you see those seven stars? 
The second one there, we named after you. We have named one after Arundhati 
aunty as well, there near the kruthika cluster (Pleiades)”. 


After the ‘project time’ was over, Sridevi and Sati would go off by themselves. “My 
father is going to give me to Vishnu in marriage,” said Sridevi delightedly, “What 
about your story? Any luck?” 


Sati said, “Easy! From tomorrow, | don’t eat, till | get my way. If | so much as skip 
breakfast, mother will bring more pressure to bear on father than he can handle. He 
will land up at Siva’s door and offer my hand in marriage”. 


It was as Sati said. Daksha found himself asking Nandi for a meeting with Siva. As 
Siva came up to greet him, Daksha was struck by his brilliant good looks and 
radiance, that no amount of ash or snakes could hide. “If {was this good looking, | 
would not care about a bath or ornaments either, he thought. “Where is that ‘third 
eye’ they talk about? The one that shoots fire?” he asked directly, without any 
preamble. 

Siva laughed heartily. That wondrous, joyous laughter rang around the hills and 
valleys. The sun shone brighter and gentler, the winds became fragrant and Daksha 
was transfixed by Siva’s twinkling eyes. At that minute, he knew, deep in his heart, 
without really knowing why, that Siva was the right one for Sati. Nature herself 
reflected their moods. This was no ordinary man. It was an insult, an an anachronism 
to ask such a man about his parentage or his eligibility. 


Siva spoke, “The third eye they speak about is my gnyananethram - eye of 
knowledge. | am an expert in Yoga and detached from the duality. So | can think 
clearly and can accept the truth, which is there for all to see. ‘They’ are blinded by 
their preferences and so do not accept the truth which their eyes and mind reveal. So 
rather than calling themselves prejudiced, they like to say that | have a third eye.” 


“Please marry my daughter”, Daksha said urgently. “She is fasting and is adamant 
about marrying you. She will have none other. | am helpless against her will. And now 
that | have seen you, | know she is right.” 


“| will come with you right away,” said Siva. 


At Daksha’s place, Siva saw the model they had made and understood what they 
were trying to do. 


Sati came out and said directly, ” ‘They’ call this the DakshaYajna. Everyone one | 
know has been to see it. In my family any long and difficult task is called a Yajnam. 
And we have been doing it for months”. Siva smiled at Sati, “Il see your father is right 
about you, anyone would be helpless against your will. And | can see where you 
would not give importance to the same things that other girls give importance to.” 
Sati smiled back, ” ‘They’ see the form and not the substance, | see both.” “Will you 
have me for your wife?”. Siva laughed his wondrous laugh again. “So, | am not to be 
allowed the privilege of asking your father for you. Yes, of course | will marry you. | 
have never met a woman, who wished to live near cremation grounds, covered with 
ash and surrounded by animals and hill-folk, who spends most of his time in Yogic 
Dhyana (contemplation).” 

Vasishtha heard about Siva’s visit and rushed to Daksha’s place, touched his feet and 
sought his blessings. “I hear that you have accepted my brother’s daughter. We are 


blessed for eternity.” Daksha was surprised. Vasishtha as oblivious to Daksha’s 
mood, “Il am planning to compose a work called the Yoga Vasishtham. | am 
composing some Veda Mantras, which not only praise the Sun and the Ocean, but 
which also encode all the astronomical discoveries of my brother Daksha 
and my father, Brahma. | am working on a system of auspicious muhurtams or 
lucky times. Anyone who commences his work at those instants of celestial 
alignments will be sure to succeed in their endeavours. | am talking to Agni and 
others and learning all the histories of times past. All | needed was a darshan (sight) 
of you, to untangle all my ideas, into clear streams of thought and expression. They 
say that not only do you have all the answers, but you are all the answers. | and all 
my descendants are forever blessed”. 

Daksha was surprised,” Does one bow to one who is younger? Or to the one who gifts 
his daughter in marriage?”. He shook his head, ” | am thinking like Manu now. If 
Vasishtha does it, it must be right, though | can’t understand half the things he says”. 


“O Sati, what will happen to our project, now that you are off getting married?” 
Daksha said sadly. “Manu does Say it is a waste educating girls. When they get 
married, they go away, unlike sons who stay on”. Sati laughed, “I believe that the girl 
going away is a also a rule made by the boys. Don’t worry, my uncles Vasishtha and 
Bhrgu, want us to wait till UttaraPhalguni Nakshatram (Denebola/Zavijaya). Siva will 
help us finish the project by then.” Daksha gave a smile and said,” Vasishtha thinks 
that we should order our lives as per celestial movements. Bhrgu thinks that our 
lives are already ordered as per celestial movements. But they joyfully work together 
without appearing to see the essential, logical contradictions in their views.” 

Siva was a godsend as far as Daksha was concerned. He understood without speech. 
He helped make a more robust model, than what Sati and he had managed till them. 
He understood things like wheel balancing and centre of gravity. He suggested 
adding small paddles to the wheels so that the wheels could be turned by water. 
Manu’s time measurement devices were very useful in making a scaled model. They 
could quickly simulate, what would happen months, or even years down the line. He 
never needed to sleep and they could work through the night and day. He suggested 
that Daksha take Viswakarma’s model and get it made out of gold. 


Everyone still called it Dakshayajna. Sati felt that Siva should get a share of the credit 
too and talked to her father. Siva sensed that Daksha wanted all the credit, it was 
“his” project from the beginning. Siva had only come in the end. It was not easy 
changing Sati’s mind. Finally, Siva said, “Let it go Sati, you and | know what all we 
deserve credit for. You never wanted any credit for yourself, then why for me? And 
your father is brilliant with his observations. | am just helping a little with the 
modelling. He has divided each nakshatra into 4 padas (quarters). He has added a 
circle for each pada. Now when the wheels turn you can see each pada of each star 
rise and set in turn. You can also see which nakshatra is rising when which nakshatra 
is setting. That really makes it easy for knowing daytime movements and positions.” 
Sati said, “Yes, now if only, we could add some horizontal circles showing how the 
sun and the moon move... Have you told him that we will be leaving for the 
Himalayas as soon as we get married? My grandfather Brahma, thinks that we rely 
too much on the mountains and oceans to guard us and it will be good if we 
‘manned’ our borders.” 


“No one has the courage to tell your mother, that will be your job”, said Siva. 
“Himavantha and Menaka are very excited that you are coming, they look upon you 
as their own daughter, everyone their is waiting for their Parvathi Devi. The have 
heard and firmly believe that you are the Devi herself.” 


Siva and Daksha were giving a final finish to the Dakshayajna project model. Daksha 
wanted to decide on a zero point. | have made a sort of imaginary star called Daksha 
(Abhijit) that overlaps with the end of Uttarashada. That can be the staring point he 
said. Siva did not agree. We’ll start with Aswini, the first star of Mesha, your goat’s 
head, he said. Daksha was said in mock anger. “My son-in-law, would you replace my 
head with a goats’s head?” 

“Why, yes,” said Siva, “| would! It makes more seasonal sense. In fact, | would knock 
off your imaginary 28th Daksha Nakshatram completely and leave it at your original 
27!" 


Daksha shook his head,”Siva doesn’t care what ‘they’ will say. ‘They’ will say that my 
head has been replaced by a goat’s head. ‘They’ will draw morals from it and teach 
people not to be arrogant.” 


“And they will never forget you or your achievements!” said Vasishtha. “Now, no one 
can look at Mesha or any of the 27 stars, without thinking of you!” 


Authorship and Copyright Notice : All Rights Reserved : Satya Sarada 
Kandula 


Notes: 
1. Manu was the author of the Manusmriti. The narrator is Bhrgu. 
2. One of Bhrgu’s descendants was Chanakya, the author of Kautilya 
ArthaSastra. The Artha Sastra has borrowed some parts from the ManuSmriti. 
3. Bhrgu authored the Bhrgu Samhita with includes sections on horoscopy 
as well as medicine. 
4. The most famous Yajnanasanam was Daksha Yajnya Vinasanam. And 
the one who destroyed Daksha’s Yajnam was none other than Siva himself. 
5. Siva was the God of the Asuras and Devas, the Devadeva. 
6. In Sanskrit, the word Daksha means, right, skilled and south. 
7. Daksha was also the name of a Prajapati, a son of Brahma appointed 


by Brahma to create Pra-jah (pro-creators). Daksha was a Prajapati. Praja 
means person and pati means lord. So Daksha was a lord of the people. 
Brahma made him a Prajapati along with some other Rishis. 


8. As per wikipedia, Daksha was called the father of the 27 
stars, because he was the astronomer who named them. 
9. Daksha’s daughter, Dakshayani, was called Sati. She was very fair, so 


she was also called Gauri. She fell in love with Siva and wished to marry him. 
The way to please Siva is through Tapas. So Sati did a very severe tapas, in 
which she did not eat as much as a leaf. So she was called Aparna. Siva was 
pleased eventually, but Daksha was not pleased at all. He performed the 


marriage, but then would have nothing to do with his divine daughter and son- 
in-law. 

10. When Daksha decided to perform a great Yajnam, he left Siva and Sati 
out on purpose. So Siva did not go and Brahma and Vishnu avoided the Yajnam 
as well. Daksha decided to go ahead any way. 

11. When Sati heard about this, she begged Siva for permission to go. She 
thought that daughters did not need invitations to go to father’s yajnas. Siva 
reluctantly let her go. Daksha was cold to Sati and said terrible things about 
Siva. Sati was very hurt and angry. She decided that she would be born again 
as the daughter of a father who loved Siva. 

12. She created a magic fire with her toe-nail and disappeared in it. When 
Siva heard what happened to Sati he was both sad and angry. He sent 
Virabhadra and Bhadrakali to destroy the Yajnam. And he replaced Daksha’s 
head with a goat’s head! 


13. Daksha Smriti : http://www.urday.com/daksha.html 
Authorship and Copyright Notice: All Rights Reserved: Satya Sara 


Daksha’s head: Goat! Aries, Mesha! 


Posted by satyask on December 10, 2008 


Siva Puranam is full of astronomical significance. 
This post talks about the astronomical significance of Daksha’s story. 


In Sanskrit, Daksha means 2 things - right, and south. This is because we are an east-facing 


people and not a north-facing people. 


1. Siva is also called Vama Deva, Vama also means left in Sanskrit. 

2. Siva (Arudra -— first star of Gemini-mithuna) Rides Vrishabha (Taurus — the Bull). 

3. Margasira Nakshatran, associated with Parvathi follows ‘prati patthaye’ Arudra, associated 
with Siva. 


Siva replaced Daksha’s head with a goat’s head. 


quick astronomy primer: 


@ The 27 nakshatrams are called fixed stars. It is with reference to them that the zodiac is 
defined. That is the sidereal zodiac. 

e The closest star to the earth - our life-giver - is the sun! 

e We move around the sun in an elliptical orbit, our earth’s axis is at an angle to the plane of 
orbit and it ‘wobbles’. This gives us the seasons and it also gives us the precession of 
equinoxes. That means that our seasonal changes the solstices and the equinoxes, shift 
slightly wrt the fixed stars. 


Since the sun is important to us - we say that it is the stars that are slipping by! 

We have fixed the tropical zodiac based on the sun. 

That means, the rasi or zodiac sign, that occurs from march 21 to april 19th, is Aries. 
That means that whatever rasi the sun is in during that time, that we define as Aries. 
Because of the slip due to precession, over a thousand years, different stars will form the 
‘Tropical Aries’. 

There fore the shape of the rasis change over time. 

Each rasi always has 2 and 1/4 stars, the first star of the first rasi changes continually. 


The rasi that looked like a man’s head?, started looking like a goat’s head, because of 
different stars were around the sun at spring. That is the time of the Daksha Yajna 


nasanam. 


More on Astronomy and Traditions 
Why the number 108 is special 


The number 108 is very special to Hindus. Ashtottara SataNama means 108 names. Sri Vishnu and 
most of the Devas and Devis are worshipped with 108 names. Some people have japamalas with 
108 beads to help them keep count. There are 27 nakshatras (constellations) and each has 4 padas 


or quarters. This makes 108 padas in all. 
Nakshtra Suktham (Devanagari) 


Posted by satyask on March 19, 2010 


http://oldthoughts. files. wordpress.com/2010/03/nakshatra. gif?w=5 16&h=4469 


(Atharva Vediya) http://manasataramgini.wordpress.com/2008/07/20/nakshatra-kalpa- 
suktam/ 


Colours of Vishnu: Galactic Centre 


Posted by satyask on October 11, 2008 
http://www.sacred-texts.com/hin/m03/m03188.htm 
SECTION CLXXXVIII = Mahabharata 


In the Krita age I become white, in the Treta age I become yellow, in the Dwapara I have become 


red and in the Kali age I become dark in hue... 


(... The black hole.. at the galactic centre... colour changes in a star...) 
Sleeping with your head to the North 


Posted by satyask on February 19, 2009 
Sleeping with your head to the North, is generally ill advised in our tradition. 
One of my thoughts is that this has something to do with the earth’s magnetic field. 


I read in the Scientific American that strong magnetic fields of about 2Tesla, 30,000 times stronger 


than the earth’s magnetic field slowed the brain response down by 30%. 


Maybe there is a cumulative effect of the low magnetic field that has not yet been 


investigated? 
Note: 


1. For the past three years I have noticed that bugs (bees and mosquitoes) and birds wish to enter 
my northern doors and windows and wish to exit through my southern windows. If I don’t open the 
southern windows, they just stick around in there, near the window and will not go out the way they 


came. 


2, The Pharoahs were buried with their heads to the north and feet to the south as evidenced by 
their sacrophagi. There are also customs in India that associate sleeping with one’s head to the 


North with death. 
3. However it is auspicious to Pray with one’s face to the east, north-east and north. 
Authorship and Copyright Notice : All Rights Reserved : Satya Sarada Kandula 


Ksheera sagara: Ocean of milk: The milky way 


Posted by satyask on March 21, 2009 


It is said that Vishnu (the galactic centre) lies on Adi Sesha (That which is left over (sesha) from the 


beginning, Adi), in the Ksheera Sagara ( the milky way). 


Ksheera sagara mathanam means churning of the ocean of milk. The Devas on one side and 


the Asuras on the other side pulled first one way and then another on a snake wound around the 
Manthara (Manthana means churning — Manthara is the stick used for churning?) mountain. The 


arms of the milky way, look to me like the two ends of the snake-rope that was used for churning. 


As a result of this churning emerged all kinds of treasures, Amrutham (non-death) being the final 
wonder. Chandra (the moon) and Lakshmi (light) are easy to understand. What were the others. 
This ksheera sagara mathanam is connected in some way with Sivarathri. Because Siva swallowed 
the halahalam or poison on that day and Saivates fast out of concern. What could be the halahalam 


and what could be the amrtam? 


Today we do not see the KalpaVrksham (the tree that grants wishes) or kamadhenu (wish giving 


cow) as a pattern in the stars, but could that explain them? 


Vasishtha is one of the stars of the Sapta Rishi Mandala (Great Bear), he was said to be present at 


the Ksheera Sagara Mathanam. 


I need to understand a little more astronomy and how the sky looks at night over the course of the 
year, to explain this better. Bangalore skies are not very co-operative, so I shall have to look at 


charts or something. 
Devas and Asuras. Tripura 


Posted by satyask on October 7, 2008 


As per Siva Purana retold by Ramesh Menon. 


I just finished this back yesterday. 


Here are some interesting ideas that I found. 


¢ Devas and Asuras (Step-Siblings) rule the world in turn for very long periods of time. The 
Asuras seize power through battle. The Devas are unhappy about this and are re-instated 
at the appropriate time” by Hari and Hara. 


¢ Devas are the Gods of Light. Asuras are the gods of darkness. 


e I think the sky looks different from time to time .. as the earth and sun move through and 
with the galaxy. This could have to do with the Devas and Asuras alternating control of the 
worlds. 


e Many of the Asuras ruled wisely and well and people were equally happy in their reign as in 
the reign of the Devas. 


Tripura: 


The three asuras built 3 cities, one on earth, one in svarga and one in patala. These align once ina 


thousand years in Pushya Masa. (This lunar month). 


Then Siva destroys them with a single arrow.. riding on a chariot made of time with a bow that 


sounds like sagittarius or Dhanus (Bow). 


I think Arudra ( in Taurus/ Vrishabha) lines up with tha stars that represent the arrow in Dhanus.. 


and those point to Swarga, Bhumi and Patala. 


The 14 worlds: 


These are PERPENDICULAR to the plane of our galaxy. 7 “above” and 7 “below”. From Vishnu Nabhi 
(navel) - which is the centre of our galaxy emerged a huge stalk at the end of which was a lotus in 


which Brahma sat. (Satya Loka is Brahma’s world). Imagine a quasar with matter bursting out from 


the centre in both directions, with worlds at various levels. We know that our galaxy is at an angle 
to the part of the universe that we are in. It should be possible to identify the 14 worlds. (satellite 


galaxies?) 


Parvati: Was also born in Margashira masa. 


Halloween, Karthika Pouranami, Yama Deepam 


Posted by satyask on October 31, 2009 


The theme of lights and overcoming fear of death dominates festivals around the world 


during Karthika Masam. 


e I compare the dates and customs of Halloween, Karthika Pournami and Yama Deeparn in 
the following article. 

e Itis possible that Ancient Indian customs spread to many parts of the Ancient World and 
were later suppressed/modified there under the label of Paganism. 

e At one time Halloween coincided with Karthika Pournami. 


e (See Also : Harvest Moon_: Aswiyuja Pournami_(Purnima)) 


Halloween : Americans celebrate Halloween on the 31st of October. Children dress up as ghosts 
(prethas) and monsters and demand sweets from neighbours. Pumpkins are carved and candles are 


placed in them. (Jack O’ Lantern) 


¢ According to this reference, Hebrews followed a lunar calendar. Halloween was instituted 
on the full moon of the eight month (October). On that day they sacrificed to the golden 
calves at Dan and Bethel. 

e "God ordained, in Leviticus 23, the Feast of Tabernacles on the fifteenth of the 
seventh month. I Kings 12:28-3228 After seeking advice, the king made two golden 
calves. He said to the people, “It is too much for you to go up to Jerusalem. Here are your 
gods, O Israel, who brought you up out of Egypt.” 29 One he set up in Bethel, and the 
other in Dan. 30 And this thing became a sin; the people went even as far as Dan to 
worship the one there. 32 He instituted a festival on the fifteenth day of the eighth 
month, like the festival held in Judah, and offered sacrifices on the altar. This he did in 
Bethel, sacrificing to the calves he had made. And at Bethel he also installed priests at the 
high places he had made. (NIV)” 

e = Westerners used to begin their new year with the winter solstice at one time as opposed to 
the spring equinox new year traditions of South Indians. Today their new year day Jan ist 
is separated by 9 days from the winter solstice, so we know how relatively young this 
calendar is, compared to the Indian calendars. ( See : Equinoxes and Dating the Vedas 

e For October (Akhtabar — Ashtavar(sha)) to be their 8th month, the first month has to be 
March. This implies at the their new year also started at the Spring Equinox, as it does for 
the Andhras, Kannadigas and Tamilians (and some other Indian States), at the time of the 
Old Testament. 

e The Biblical Reference above shows that the full moon was the 15th day, which means that 
like Andhras and Kannadigas (and some other Indian States), they started their calendar 
on the new moon day when the sun and the moon were aligned. 


Karthika Pournami : Andhras (and Indians of some other states) celebrate Karthika Pournami in a 
big way on the full moon day of lunar month Karthika Masa. Karthika Masa is named after the 
Kruthika Nakshatram (called Pleiades). The Krutika Nakshtram is a constellation of 6 stars called the 
Krttikas and the adopted son Karthikeya (son of Siva), whom they all raised together. It is 


Karthikeya who killed Tarakasura and returned Indra’s kingdom to him. 


¢ Karthika Masam is named after Kruthika Nakshatram, because, on an average, the full 
moon day occurs closer to Kruthika than the other 26 Nakshatrams. This usually occurs in 
the english calendar month of November. 

¢ This year Karthika Pournami is on 2nd November and occurs in Ashwini Nakshatram 
which is 2 nakshatras away from Kruthika. 

@ On the day of the Kruthika Nakshatram in Karthika Masam, the festival of Kruthika 
Deepotsavam is observed - this is on 4th November this year! 

e "The Seven Sisters constellation, Pleiades, which looks like a small cluster of grapes, has 
long been a signal for the time of year to honor the dead — such as All Saints Day, 
Nov. 1. According to myth, the Seven Sisters constellation is at its highest point in the sky 
during a great calamity. The Aztecs and Mayans believed it would be overhead at midnight 
on the night the world comes to an end."(Reference) 


e What is a good day to the victors (Karthikeya and the Devas) might well be a bad day to 
the losers (Tarakasura). Could this be a clue? 


(For posts by me explaining the lunar calendar please see : Nakshatram of_ 
the Day! , Nakshatr. nd M. 


Yama Tharpanam and Yama Deepam : Yama is worshipped on different days of Karthika 


Masam and one or 2 days preceding it. 


My calendar gives the day before Deepavali (Aswiyuja Krishna Paksha Chaturdasi as Yama 
Tarpanam, Naraka Caturdasi, Preta Caturdasi and Yama Deepam) and Karthika Krishna Paksha 


Trayodasi as Yama Deepam. Expect variations from state to state. 


@ Yama Dharmaraja is reverred the luminary (deva) in charge of Yama (Restraint and Self- 
Control) and Dharma (Ethics, Right Conduct etc). He is popularly known as the God of 
Death or Mrutu Devata in contemporary Hinduism. At the end of your life, it is believed 
that, Yama reviews the account of your activites and decides how much time you get in 
heaven and how much time in each kind of hell. Yama is worshipped to overcome the fear 
of death. 

¢ Yamadwitheya / Bhathru Dwithiya: As the legend goes Yamraj, the God of Death visited his 
sister Yamuna (Yami) on this particular day. That is why this day of Bhayyaduj is also 
known by the name of "Yama-Dwitiya” or Bhathru Dwithiya. (Source) 


In Andhra, sisters give Arati to their brothers on Naraka Caturdasi. Variations of this custom occur 


in various states of India, both north and south. 


For other posts written by me on the spread of Ancient Indian Customs (Brahmins to 


Hebrews) you may see links below: (These are not connected to Karthika Masam.) 


From Ganga-Saraswathi to Sumer to Jerusalem 

Sumeru 

Jewish and Brahmin temple customs 

Meaning of Yehovah, Yeshua 

Etymyology : Allah, Elohim, Eloah, Ila, Brahman 

Hell Hellenistic Greece Helios 

Svarga, Naraka, Paraloka 

Bhavishya Purana references Adam (Adama) as the son of Vishnu Kardama. It 


records a meeting of Jesus (Isa —- Masiha) and Salivahana. 


The Earth’s Wobble, Eclipses and 
Indian History 


Uttarayanam: Shift from Makara Sankramanam to 
Dhanur Masam 


Meaning of Uttarayanam: 


e The moon traverses 27 nakshatras in one lunar month. The sun traverses 27 nakshatras 
in one year. 

e = If you live in the Northern Hemisphere: Look towards the east every morning, and you can 
see that the sun rises in the general direction of the east, but a little more to the north and 
slightly sooner everyday after the winter solstice, and a little more to the south everyday 
and slightly later after the summer solstice. Twice a year, the sun rises exactly in the 
east. 

e Uttarayanam or Uttarayana Punya Kalam is the period during which each sunrise is just a 
little more to the north. Similarly Dakshinayanam is the period during which each sunrise is 
just a little more to the south. 

¢ §6Traditionally, we celebrate Uttarayanam from Mid-Jan to Mid-July and Dakshinayanam from 
Mid-July to Mid-Jan. 


ts off rT 


ae 


(C) 2005-6 a tke Teset Dust 


Tutulemma: Solar Eclipse Analemma Credit & Copyright: Cenk E. Tezel and Tung Tezel (TWAN) 
(APOD, NASA) 


The day on which the sun ‘changes direction’ and starts rising towards the north, is called 
the Winter Solstice, Uttarayanam. This was the day that Bhishma was waiting for, so that he 


could leave his mortal coils. 


Meaning of Makara Sankramanam: 


The day when the Sun traverses from the first pada (quarter) of Uttarashada Nakshatra to the 
second pada (quarter) of the Uttarashada Nakshatra is called Makara Samkramanam (entering 


Capricorn.) 


See Also : Moola Karthe, Dhanur Masam, Sri Maha Vishnu 


Date of the Uttarayanam now and then: 


e At one time Uttarayanam and Makara Sankramanam occured on the same day. 

e Nowadays, the Winter Solstice, no longer corresponds to Makara Sankramanam. 

e The Winter Solstice (Real Uttarayanam) takes place on the 22nd or 23rd of December. And 
Makara Sankramanam occurs in the middle of January. 

e The solstices, ‘slip’ past the nakshatrams at a definite rate. This is called the 
precession of the equinoxes. (The equinoxes are the days on which dates and nights are 
of equal length. The solstices are days on which the sun changes its north-south direction.) 


e The equinoxes and the solstices define our seasons, spring, summer, autumn and winter 
and are therefore important for seasonal celebrations. 


Let us say that Dec 22nd, you wake up at sun rise and note down which constellation (nakshatram), 
the sun points to. Next year, same day, same time, you will find that the alignment is off by 50.3 
seconds of arc. 71.6 years later, you will find that your measurement is off by a whole degree, and 
that you are closer to the previous nakshatram. It will take 25,700 years, for your descendants to 


see the same alignment that you did. 


Some Very Very Rough Arithemetic: Part 1: 


1. The equinox shifted from Jan 14th to Dec 22nd - 22 days approximately. 

2. Therefore the equinox that is supposed to take place when the sun is aligned 
with Uttarashada Second Padam, now takes place 22 days/365 days * 27 nakshatrams * 4 
padams/nakshatram = 6.5 padams earlier. 

3. That is it takes place when the sun is aligned with Moola Makshatram 3rd Padam. 


4. ie, it takes place in Dhanur Masam. 


Some Very Very Rough Arithemetic: Part 2: 


1. In 1 year the equinox shifts by 50.3 seconds. 


2. To shift by 22/365*360 degrees, ie 21.7 degrees, it takes : 21.7 degrees*3600 
minutes per degree / 50.3 seconds per year. 1553 years. 


When did Uttarayanam and Bhishma Ekadasi coincide? 


Quoted From : http://www.ias.ac.in/currsci/dec252005/2174.pdf 


“It is stated that Bhisma died on Maga S 8 on the winter solstice day, i.e. at the start of Uttarayana. 


At present, this tithi occurs between 20 January and 20 February, which differs from the date of 


winter solstice, 22nd December, by 29 to 60 days. This difference is caused by the precession of the 
earth’s axis around the ecliptic poles in the retrograde circuit in 25,725 years, as stated earlier. It 
causes a slow backward shift of equinoxes and solstices with respect to the nakshatras and the 
lunar months at the rate of one day in 71 years. As it would take 2060 to 4260 years to produce a 
shift of 29 to 60 days, the date of Bhisma’s death would be 1200 + 1000 BC. This date can be 
pushed back to the Krtttika epoch of 2300 BC, if we put the beginning of Dhanistha exactly opposite 
to Magha (Alpha Leonis).” 


Uttarayanam and Christmas coincided approximately 2000 years ago: Quoted from: 
http://www. dattapeetham.com/india/talks/christDatta.htm!" 

“In december the sun will be in Dhanus Raashi (Sagittarius). On 14th January every year sun 
moves to the next sign i.e. Makara (Capricorn). From that day (14th January) the period of 
Uttaraayana commences (Uttarayana is the period from 14 January to 14 July). The commencement 
of this Uttarayana happens on January 14th in the system of Nirayana only (Sidereal 

calculations). But in Sayana system (Tropical calculations), Sun starts his Uttarayana 
period in the last week of December. The system of Sayana observes the movement of sun and 
corroborates and finalises the astrological calculations on sun. Presently, this movement of Sun to 
Uttarayana happens either on 22nd or 23rd of December. But about 2000 years ago (possibly when 


Jesus was born) this change used to happen on December 25th every year.” 


Precession of Equinoxes and Dating Vedas 


Posted by satyask on February 23, 2009 


A. There are 4 special days in a tropical year. 


Winter Solstice : Starting of Uttarayanam 
Spring Equinox: Ugadi 

Summer Solstice: Starting of Dakshinayanam 
Autumn Equinox. 


Ne 


B. There are 27 nakshtras as given below. 


Nakshatra ‘No. of stars Alternate name Dedicated to ; 
Krittika 6 | Agni 
Rohini EF ne Prajaapati_ 
Mrigasheerisham 8B qi ‘Soma 
Aardharaa al Rudra 
Punarvasu : 2-4 “Aditi 
Tishya 8 : Pushya Brihaspati 
Aaslesha a _ Ashresha Sarpa 
Maghaa Situ 
Poorva Phalguni '2 7 2 Pubba ‘Bhaga_ 
Uttara Phalguni 2 _ Uttara o 

Hastaa 13 IL ‘Savitru 
Chitra 1 “Chiga = “Sindra 
Swati Ai (Vaayu 
Vishaaka 2 ] ; Indraagni 
Anooradha 4 qh “Mitra 
Jyeshta 3 ms Indra 
Vichruta 11 Moola Pitra 
Aashada 2 -'Purvashada Aapah 
Aashada(Abhijit) 3 ~ Uttarashada ‘Vi shvedeva 
Shrona 3 Shravana “Vishnu 
Shravishta 4 Dhanishta _ Vasu 
ShathaBhishaja “100 | [ ‘Indra 


Proshtapada 2 ’ Purvabhadra | a 
Proshtapada 2 _,Uttarabhadra  — Ahirbadhni 
Revathi cy) ot Pausha 
Ashwini _ 'B ‘Ashwini 
Bharani 33 4 . jyama 


C. The earth takes 365.25 days to cover 360 degrees: one full orbit around the sun. 


This is our tropical year. In one day the earth covers 0.9856 degrees nowadays. Since the earth is 
slowing down, there was a time in our past when the earth took only 360 days for a revolution. 


(How long ago was that? I don’t know right now). 
D. The earth wobbles on its axis. 


If we take the stars as our fixed frame of reference, then the year is a small fraction longer than our 
tropical year. This is called the sidereal year. Every tropical year we are short of the sidereal 


year by 50.3 seconds. (Or almost a minute). 


Roughly every 60 tropical years we are short of the sidereal year by 1 degree. (more exactly every 
71.6 years we are short of the sidereal year by a degree). We follow a 60 year cycle, in which each 
year has a name. Roughly every 60*360 years (21600 years), we are short by 360 degrees and we 


have come a full cycle. (This would be more exactly every 71.6*360 ie 27776 tropical years) 


60 year cycle: 1. Prabhava 2. Vibhava 3. Shukla 4. Pramoda 5. Prajapati 6. Angirasa 7. Shrimukha 
8. Bhava 9. Yuvan 10. Dhatri 11. Ishvara 12. Bahudhanya 13. Pramathin 14. Vikrama 15. Vrisha 16. 
Chitrabhanu 17. Svabhdanu 18. Tarana 19. Parthiva 20. Vyaya 21. Sarvajit 22. Sarvadhdarin 23. 
Virodhin 24. Vikrita 25. Khara 26. Nandana 27. Vijaya 28. Jaya 29. Manmatha 30. Durmukha 31. 
Hemalambin 32. Vilambin 33. Vikarin 34. Sharvari 35. Plava 36. Shubhakrit 37. Shobhana 38. 
Krodhin 39. Vishvavasu 40. Parabhava 41. Plavanga 42. Kilaka 43. Saumya 44. Sadhdarana 45. 
Virodhikrit 46. Paritapin 47. Pramadin 48. Ananda 49. Rakshasa 50. Anala 51. Pingala 52. Kalayukti 
53. Siddharthin 54. Raudra 55. Durmati 56. Dundubhi 57. Rudhirodgdarin 58. Raktaksha 59. 
Krodhana 60. Akshaya (22nd year — Sarvdhari. 5109 Kali Yuga) 


E. The 4 special tropical year days, occur at different times on each sidereal year. This is 


the precession of equinoxes. 


There are 27*4 = 108 Nakshatra padas. The sun ‘steps’ through each of these padas over the 


course of the 360 degree (27776 tropical years) cycle. Each Pada is 3 deg and 20 min., that is 200 


min. It takes the sun 200*60/50.3 ~ 240 years to step through a pada. or 960 years to step 


through a nakshatra. 


In very rough terms, this means that an equinox or solstice will occur at the immediately previous 


nakshatram about 1000 years later. 


F, Examples: 


Let us say that, when reckoning began, that the spring equinox was in Krttika Nakshatram. And that 
it is in Ashwini Nakshatram today. That means the sun has stepped through 2 nakshatrams, which 


implies roughly 2000 years ago. 


Let us say that when the reckoning began, the winter solstice was in Krttika Nakshatram and now it 
is in Moola Nakshatram, then that means the sun has stepped through 11 nakshatram which is 


about 11000 years ago. 


G. Dating. 


We know where the equinoxes and solstices are today with respect to the fixed stars. If we know 


where the equinoxes and solstices were then with respect to the fixed stars, then we have a date. 


Based on their interpretations of the Vedas and Scriptures and our customs now and then, various 


astronomers have given us different dates for the Vedas and the scriptures. 


Since the Vedanga Jyotisha starts with Krttka as the first star, we think that one of the important 
tropical days would have coincided with it. Which is that important date and what does it give us for 


the antiquity of the Vedas? 


A Personal Tentative Thought: 


Many Indian scholars accept the traditional date of 5109 years ago as the beginning of Kaliyuga and 
the death of Sri Krishna. ie 3100 BCE. Based on brahmin lineages, I have argued that Rama was 
two generations prior to Krishna and the Vedic scholars were at least one generation prior to 
him. Viswamitra who composed the Gayathri Manthram was a teacher to Sri Rama when he got 


married to Sita Devi. This would give us about maybe 3500 BCE for the Gayathri Mantram. 


If we take it that the winter solstice occured in Revathi Nakshatram in Vedic times and that it 
slipped back to Moola Nakshatram now, I am looking at a date of roughly 8000 years ago or about 


6000 BC. (There are other scholars who give this date.) 


If we take it that the winter solstice occured in Dhanistha Nakshatram in Vedic times and that it 
slipped back to Moola Nakshatram now, I am looking at a date of roughly 4000 years ago or about 


2000 BC. There are many people who believe that the Harappan civilization was about 2000 BCE. 


Data below quoted 


from: http://www.himalayanacademy.com/resources/books/dws/dws r6 timeline.html 


Posted by satyask on March 12, 2009 


@ “10,000 Taittiriya Brahmana 3.1.2 refers to Purvabhadrapada nakshatra’s rising due east, 
a phenomenon occurring at this date (Dr. B.G. Siddharth of the Birla Science Institute), 


indicating earliest known dating of the sacred Veda. 


@ §=-8500 Taittiriya Samhita 6.5.3 places Pleiades asterism at winter solstice, suggesting the 


antiquity of this Veda. 


@ -6776 Start of Hindu king’s lists according to Greek references that give Hindus 150 kings 
and a history of 6,400 years before 300 BCE; agrees with next entry. 


@ -6500 Rig Veda verses (e.g., 1.117.22, 1.116.12, 1.84.13.5) say winter solstice begins in 


Aries (according to D. Frawley), giving antiquity of this section of the Vedas. 


e@ =6©-5500 Date of astrological observations associated with ancient events later mentioned in 


the Puranas (Alain Danielou). 


@ = ==3928 July 25th: the earliest eclipse mentioned in the Rig Veda (according to Indian 


researcher Dr. Sri P.C. Sengupta). 


@ =-3200 In India, a special guild of Hindu astronomers (nakshatra darshas) record in Vedic 
texts citations of full and new moon at winter and summer solstices and spring and fall 
equinoxes with reference to 27 fixed stars (nakshatras) spaced nearly equally on the 
moon’s ecliptic (visual path across the sky). The precession of the equinoxes (caused by the 
mutation of the Earth’s axis of rotation) makes the nakshatrasappear to drift at a constant 
rate along a predictable course over a 25,000-year cycle. Such observations enable 
specialists to calculate backwards to determine the date the indicated position of moon, sun 


and nakshatra occurred. 


-3139 Reference to vernal equinox in Rohini (middle of Taurus) from some Brahmanas, as 
noted by B.G. Tilak, Indian scholar and patriot. Now preferred date of Mahabharata war and 


life of Lord Krishna 


-2500 Reference to vernal equinox in Krittika (Pleiades or early Taurus) 
from Yajur and Atharva Veda hymns and Brahmanas. This corresponds to Harappan seals 


that show seven women (the Krittikas) tending a fire. 


-2350 Sage Gargya (born 2285), 50th in Puranic list of kings and sages, son of Garga, 
initiates method of reckoning successive centuries in relation to a nakshatra list he records 


in the Atharva Veda with Krittika as the first star. Equinox occurs at Krittikia Purnima. 


=-1424 Mahabharata War occurs (dated from reference in the Mahabharata citing winter 


solstice at Dhanishtha, which occurs around this time). (conflicts with the 3139 BC) 


-1255 King Suchi of Magadha sets forth Jyotisha Vedanga, dating it by including an 


astronomical note that summer solstice is in Ashlesha Nakshatra. 


-850 The Chinese are using the 28-nakshatra zodiac called Shiu, adapted from the 


Hindu jyotisha system.” 


Date of Veda Mantras 


Reference 1 : History of Astronomy in India: Sen and Shukla : Indian National Science Academy : 


National Commission for the Compilation of the history of sciences in India 1985 


1. A survey of source materials : Prof. K.V. Sarma, FormerlyDirector, Visvesvarananda Vedic 


Research Institute, Hoshiarpur, Punjab. 


The harbingers of the autumnal equinox are given in different mantras of the Rig Veda as, 


Aditi (Punarvasu, Pollux 113 long) : ~ 6200 BC/BCE 
Daksha (Abhijit, Vega, 284 long) : ~ 5400 BC/BCE 
Rudra (Ardra, Betelguese, 88 long) : ~ 4350 BC/BCE 
Rohini (Aldebran, long 69 deg) : ~ 3070 BC/BCE 


(* Rough calculations done by Sri Sarma using 72 years per degree approximately : 27 Nakashatras 


— 360 degrees ~ 13.33 deg per nakshatra ~ 960 years: Depending on which point of the star, 


beginning, end or middle was meant there can be an offset not exceeding 500 - 1000 years in 


the dates given. So based on other data such as the date of the Bharata War, we have to fine 


tune the offset error.) 


R.V : 3.99 : Krittika is the autmn star c 2350 BCE (assuming a 1000 year offset error, we are 
looking at 3350 BCE - which better correlates with the date calculated for the Bharata War) 


Viswamitra 


R.V. 1.164 Autumn Star Agni (Krittika, Alcyon 59.5 long) : Dirgha tamas. 


R.V. 5.40-49, the total eclipse of the sun determined by P.C. Sen Gupta as 3298 BCE. 


The RV references do not seem to be mandala suktha mantra but some other numbering... so I 


can’t verify them at this instant... 


Ancient Indian Astronomy : Precession and 
Dates : Frawley 


Posted by satyask on November 20, 2009 


Reference : Gods, Sages and Kings. Vedic Secrets of an Ancient Civilization by David 


Frawley 


For use with our future discussions on this subject, I am jotting down a few points from this 


reference. 


10. 


11 


12. 
13. 


14. 


15. 


16. 


17. 


Today we hear of the dawning of the “Age of Aquarius”. The point of the vernal equinox — 
the position of the Sun among the stars on the first day of spring — is approaching the sign 
of Aquarius (Kumbha). 


This phenomenon is caused by a backward tilting of the earth on its axis, the precession, 
which changes atthe rate of about 50” per year and competes the whole cycle of the zodiac 
in about 25,800 years. 


The astronomy of India has always been sidereal, based on stellar positions, unlike the west 
which employed a “Tropical” zodiac based on seasonal points. 

Most Indian astronomers place the vernal equinox around 23 degrees from 0 degrees Aries, 
as of 1950. ie 7 degrees of Piesces. 

While the greek Hipparchus calculated the rate of precession as 36” per year, the Surya 
Siddhanta calculated the rate at 54” which is much closer to the modern measurement of 
50.3” per year. 

Precessional changes are the hallmark of Indian Astronomy. 


A sidereal day is 4 minutes shorter than a regular day and therefore there are 366 sidereal 
days in a normal year. Thus the precession is built into the Indian calendar. 

Any culture employing the sidereal zodiac will find the position of the equinoxes moving 
back a week or so every 500 years or about 7 degrees in the zodiac. 

Today, Hindus celebrate the Sun entering the sign of Capricorn around Jan 14th as this is 
the observable sidereal position, and western tropical calendars use Dec 21st as the date of 
the western solstice. 

Hindu Sidereal calculations are more complicated than tropical ones. Indian astronomy is a 
very specialised system that requires precise astronomical observations and shows an 
ongoing knowledge of the exact placement of the planets and equinoxes relative to the 
fixed stars. many Vedic rituals are described relative to sidereal calendars. 


. About every 1000 years, the equinox is moved back another nakshatram (lunar 


constellation). 

The nakshatram after which each month (masa) is named, mark the beginning of their 
respective signs. 

The Hindu months were devised according to a correspondence between nakshatras and 
the zodiac, revealing a knowledge of both systems. 

In Ancient Indian Texts, the nakshatras are listed in the order of their sequence starting 
with the constellation that marks the spring (vernal) equinox. Medieval lists begin their 
listing of the nakshatras with Ashwini. Ancinet lists started with Krittija, showing the 
equinox at the beginning of taurus. 

Whenever the equinox retreated back to a previous sign and therefore a previous month, a 
major calendar reform was initiated. (We can find various texts and tables in use even 
today). 

Eras when the equinox came to an initial point of one of the 12 signs were more 
prominently marked in Vedic texts than the intermediary points. 

For the purpose of Vedic Yajnas, the year began with the winter solstice when the sun was 
“renewed”. 


18. 


The first month of the year therefore becomes, the one named after the nakshatram that 
marks the full moon on the winter solstice day. 


19. Vedic literature tells us some of the months named by these lunar constellations 


(nakshatrams) and the days within them in which the solstices occured, affording 
us additional means of calculating these eras. 


Unique eclipse pair combination just before the 
Bharata War! 


Posted by satyask on March 12, 2009 


Notes Quoted from : “http://www.boloji.com/astro/00325a.htm™ 


1. 


10. 


Surya Siddhanta states that sun was 54 degrees away from vernal equinox when Kaliyuga 
started on a new moon day, corresponding to February 17/18, 3102 BCJ, at Ujjain 
(75deg47minE 23deg 15min N). 

Varaha Mihira stated that 2526 years before start of Saka count [Brihat Samhita Ref-3] as 
per text below: When Saptarishis (ursa major) was near Magha Yudhistira was king 2526 
years before Saka time 

Presently, traditional Sanatana Dharma followers consider that Kaliyuga started at 3102 
BCJ, when Sri Krishna passed away, and that Mahabharata war occurred in 3138 BCI. 
Millennium year 2000 AD is Kali 5102 

The Bhishma Parva and Udyoga Parva (specific chapters of Mahabharata) provide 
considerable astronomical/astrological descriptions and omens as the Mahabharata war was 
approaching. It describes a period of draught, with many planetary positions. 

Then there is this clear reference to pair of eclipses occurring on 13th day as shown below. 
Fourteenth day, Fifteenth day and in past sixteenth day, but I have never known the 
Amavasya (New Moon day) to occur on the thirteenth day. Lunar eclipse followed by solar 
eclipse on thirteenth day is in a single lunar month etc..... 

Mahabharata text also refers to retrograde motions of planets prior to war and provides 
their location with reference to 27/28 Vedic star locations. Mahabharata Drona Parva also 
refers to Jayadhratha’s killing during a dark episode on 13th day of the war, which some 
consider as another short solar eclipse. 

Analysis of all eclipses visible at Kurukshethra (Location where Mahabharata war took place, 
north of New Delhi, Longitude 76 deg 49 min East, Latitude 29 deg 59 Min North) from 
3300 BC to about Buddha-Mahavira-Parshvanaatha time of about 700BC. Analysis of the 
time between successive eclipses, specifically time between end of one and beginning of 
other has been made, with a view to look at astronomical feasibility of back-to-back 
eclipses in 13 days, using modern astronomical computer software. 

There are about 150 lunar eclipses per century.During period 3500BC to 700 BC, nearly 
4350 lunar eclipses have probably occurred. 

About 240 solar eclipses occur every century. During period 3500BC to 700 BC, nearly 6960 
Solar Eclipses have occurred. 

Astronomical calculations have been greatly improved since past 30 years, particularly with 
considerable amount of trajectory work conducted in Moon and other scientific projects. 
High accuracy computer models and software have been developed. These are validated 
against databases from US Naval Observatory’s Interactive computer Ephemeris, and Jet 
Propulsion Laboratory in California. One such code is LodeStar Pro copy righted by Wayne C 
Annala in 1994 [Ref- 7]. The Lodestar Pro was checked for historical eclipses of 1000-2500 
BC from clay tablet records of Mesopotamia area presently available with British Museum. 
Wayne Mitchell has analyzed this data [Ref-8]. Lodestar Pro provided excellent match with 
ref-8. 

Nearly 673 solar and lunar eclipses occurred in pairs of time gap of about nominal 15 days 
corresponding to roughly half lunar month. We need to search amongst these 673 for 
eclipse pairs visible in Kurukshethra, which occurred in “Thirteen” days. 

A very detailed scan of all the visible lunar and solar eclipses for every year from 3300BC to 
700 BC was made on the Lodestar software for Kurukshethra location. These were 


11. 


12. 


tabulated and plotted. Maximum eclipse time gap (end of one eclipse and beginning of next 
eclipse for naked eye observers) was found to be about 379 hours while the minimum was 
about 332 hours. A plot of time gap between back-to-back eclipses versus eclipse pair 
number is shown below. (This time corresponds to maximum to maximum) 

Nearly 672 pairs of eclipses occurred on earth, which in principle may have been visible at 
Kurukshethra. Amongst these, nearly 32 pairs would be occurring for period less than 14 
days. Many of these were found to be weak penumbral eclipses of moon, and solar eclipses 
had such low obscurity as to raise the issue whether any body could see them. 

Six pairs of “thirteen day” eclipses could be seen unambiguously. After serious analysis of 
all the eclipses, six eclipse pairs from 3129 BCJ, 2599 BCJ, 2056 BCJ, 1853 BCJ, 1708 BCI] 
and 1397 BC) clearly are the best candidates for Mahabharata war year from “thirteen day” 
eclipse pairs view point. 


Items in red show retrograde or Vakri motion 


Graha (Planet) 3129BCJ Mahabharata text 
Brihaspati (Jupiter) U.Ashada/Shravana Shravana-Vishakha 

Sani (Saturn) __| Revati ____ | Shravana-Vishakha 
Angaraka (Mars) a U.Ashada/Shravana_ | Magha - i 
Shukra (Venus) ——_—| U Phalguni | PoorvaPhalguni 
‘Ravi (Sun Solar) ‘U Phalguni | Rohini = al 


The location of the planets at the time of eclipse pair is shown in table above. Clearly, 


only Brihaspati, and Shukra are the only planets near locations indicated in 
the Mahabharata text. This date of 3129 BCJ is a serious candidate date for 
consideration ofMahabharata war. 


The first and oldest eclipse pair from 3129 BC is unique. These fit 

the Puranic description that Sri Krishna passed away in 3102 BCJ, which is 27 
years after the war. Our study confirms that Kaliyuga could have started in 3102 
BCJ. 


