THE YOGA OF THE PLANETS 
SATURN, SHANI 
ANorEW Foss, PHD 


“ante” Ci 


eat 


Aes 


SERS 
Las Satya’ atts ans. 
ees! & ~ 


TABLE OF CONTENTS 


Dedication 

How this Book will Help You 
Find your Personal Mantras 
The Journey 


Notes on Pronounciation from the Transliteration 


Hymn in Honour of the Planets 


Saturn, Shani 


The Mantras of Shani in Transliteration 
Secrets of Vimshottari Dasha 

Sources and Acknowledgements 

The Artists 


About the Author 


HOW THIS BOOK WILL HELP YOU 


This book has many uses. In itself, it is a meditation. There is no need to know 
anything about Vedic Astrology to enjoy and benefit. There are insights into astrology but the 
main focus is enlightening the consciousness and providing a rebalancing of the energies 
represented by the planets. This will happen automatically as one reads the mantras and their 


commentaries. 


There are 108 mantras for each planet used in Vedic Astrology. Each mantra is a 
descriptive name converted to a salutation and used for meditation or chanting. For example 
‘om Santaya namah’ means ‘salutations to the peaceful one’ and is based on the name santa 
(shaanta) which means peaceful. Reciting the mantra develops understanding for the quality 
embodied in the name and can help mental clarity and spiritual development. In the transla- 
tion, the first mantra of each planet is fully translated. After that, just the names are translated 


leaving ‘Salutations to’ understood. 


The Vedic planets are normally listed in the order of the days of the week. They are 
the Sun, the Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus and Saturn plus the two eclipse points. 
These are the Lunar nodes called Rahu (the North node) and Ketu (the South node). The Vedic 
‘planets’ are often referred to as ‘Grahas’, the Sanskrit word which means ‘graspers’, as they 
appear to guide and control our experiences. 


For the first time, these mantras are listed with translation and commentary. Even if you 
only read the commentaries, you will get some of the benefit. If the planet is weak or afflicted 


in your life, then this acts as a remedy. If it is already strong, this helps to enliven its full value. 


A common way of using these mantras is to recite the set of 108 for the planet one 
chooses’. For example, one could recite the mantras of the Sun on Sunday mornings. The 
next chapter, Find your Personal Mantras, will explain how to go beyond this and find out 


which of the mantras will especially enliven your personal chart. 


The mantras of the more malefic planets, such as Mars, Saturn, Rahu and Ketu, natu- 
rally contain some names, which describe the more challenging side of the Graha. These help 
us to understand certain behaviours and this can be remedial. For these names, it may be 
better to contemplate the deeper meanings rather than simply repeating them. For example, 
Rahu is said to be cruel. This association with cruelty arises out of fear. Fear is deeply seated 


in survival issues. 


Contemplating the mantra may help one get in touch with the source of the problem, 
so it can be alleviated. Loving an injured heart can be the basis of real change. This applies to 


our self or another. | do not recommend using the more challenging names as regular practice 


mantras and | certainly do not recommend you ask another person to do them even if they 
come up when you do the calculations described in the next chapter. On the other hand, | 
have found listening to the sets of 108 names has been beneficial for my clients. 


If chanting one or a set of mantras, | suggest you start with 
om gam ganapataye namah 
to invoke the pure state of mind and end with 
om Santih Santin Santih 
meaning ‘Om peace, peace, peace’. 


For convenience, | am publishing the mantras of the nine planets of Vedic Astrology in 
nine separate eBooks. Put together, the length was too great but | am combining them all in 
the printed version. To find the eBook for another planet, visit YogaOfThePlanets.com. There 
you can also find information on the audio of the recitation of the mantras. | have on occasion 
given these to clients to listen to when that planet was afflicted in their chart with very posi- 
tive results. 


FIND YOUR PERSONAL MANTRAS 


A great secret being released with this book is how to find the best mantras for you 
from the list of 108. This secret has been closely kept by a few Indian Astrologers and | am in- 
debted to my teacher, Pandit Sanjay Rath, for enlightening me about this. 


It is very simple. The reason why there are 108 mantras for the planets as well as such 
lists for the deities is because the zodiac is naturally divided into 108 segments. 108 is said 
to be the number of Shree, the Goddess of prosperity. Astrologically, it is our whole world. 
For example, the name of a new born child is often given based on the Moon’s place in these 
divisions. 


It is not only the Moon that is important. The Sun is very important and all the other 
planets of Vedic Astrology can be key. It all depends on our chart. Whatever the chart, doing 
the mantra for the position of a planet can be very beneficial. It will resonate with us and thus 
has extra energy. 


There are a number of approaches for finding a powerful mantra for you or for a client, 
student or friend. The first | describe requires no astrology and the others are connected to 
the actual positions of the planets. For those with an interest in Vedic Astrology, this can be- 
come quite detailed as we drill down on the relationship between different planets. Therefore, 
a chapter on advanced applications is to be found in the printed version of the book. Here we 
give the easy astrological applications. 


However you arrive at a mantra, please pay attention to the caveat mentioned in the 
previous section. 


Method One, the Random Number 


Picking a random number may sound an unlikely idea but it is something that many 
prognostic systems employ, including the Vedic Astrology method of answering questions. 
This technique often gives clear insights. If you are calm and quietly focused, then nature 
talks to you and one way of facilitating this is picking a number. There are really two situations, 
finding a number for oneself and finding one for another. For example, if you are a Yoga 
teacher whose student wants a mantra or someone sharing with a friend. 


Suppose you want a random number for yourself and do not want to imagine a number 
out of 108. You can get three single digit numbers by picking numbers you see. One way is to 
open a book and take the final digit of the page number and do this three times. For example, 
suppose you open a book at random three times and get pages 21, 143 and 79. Pick the final 
digits which would be 1, 3 and 9. Write down these digits to form a number 139 and adjust 


to the desired range by subtracting 108. In this example, 139 — 108 = 31. Of course, you can 
come up with many alternate ways of getting a number. 


My astrological software Shri Jyoti Stare gives a random number. In the Data Entry 
screen, click ‘Enter Number’. If you are asked about ‘Replacing the current chart...’ click Yes 
or No. In the next screen, make sure the Range is set to 108 and you will see a random num- 
ber is given to you. 


If there is another person involved, one can ask them for a number. This often works. 
What we want is a number between 1 and 108. If the person gives us a number larger than 
108, we can keep subtracting 108 until we get a number in the desired range. For example, if 
they say 250, then subtracting 108 twice (216) gives 34. However, we may feel that the person 
is interpreting our answer to mean a single digit number only or perhaps knows the system 
we are using too well and may be biased towards certain numbers. Then we can ask for three 
single digit numbers as in the method described just above but we can write them down in re- 
verse order. This is just a suggestion, in reality we can use any scheme that we like. 


A separate app for this book is planned, which will do both random number and astro- 
logical calculations (information will be posted on YogaOfThePlanets.com). 


Method Two, Using the Astrological Chart 


The following is how to find the number for your natal Moon (or any planet). First, find 
out the sidereal position from any software, for example Shri Jyoti Star. In the current version 
7, it will also give you the mantra number next to the planet glyphs in charts. The planned app 
for this book will also give the number (see YogaOfThePlanets.com) but it is easy to do it by 
hand if one has the planet position. Examples are given below. 


In the table following, look up the planet position and find the number. Note, the table 
is at the end of this section and it is quite narrow to facilitate reading on narrow screens. If you 
still cannot see the whole width of the table, rotate your device to Landscape or pinch in until 
you can see the whole table. 


For example, suppose the planet is at Virgo 5 degrees. 5° is between 3°20’ and 6°40' 
so look in the second column of numbers under 6°40’ in the row for Virgo. You will find the 
number 47. Then look in the book for the mantra numbered 47. In the main text, the number 
is given at the start of the commentary, after the mantra. In the lists at the end, the mantra fol- 
lows the number. For the Moon, the mantra for 47 is ‘om muktidaya namah’. 


This is the simplest application of the rule where the number is counted from the start 
of the zodiac. This can be called ‘God’s view’ as the beginning of the zodiac is the beginning 
of the chart from the point of view of the Creator. Thus, it is very powerful. However, there 
are other views. There is the count from the Moon, which gives the social or personal view. 


There is the count from the Sun, which is like the view from our soul. Another important 
count is from the Ascendant, which relates to the body and health. Reciting the mantra we 
get from this count may help our health but if we feel sick we should always consult a medi- 
cal professional. 


We can make a count from any of the planets as the starting point. In Jyotisna (Vedic 
Astrology) there are systems of planetary cycles (periods), especially the famous Vimshottari 
Dasha system. All Vedic Astrology software like Shri Jyoti Star give these cycles too. Even 
some Western Astrology software or online software give them. For example, you might be 
running a Venus Moon cycle and subcycle. That means you are in the major cycle of Venus 
and the minor cycle of the Moon (called a Bhukti). In this example, one can count from Venus 
to the Moon and use the mantra from the Moon list. 


For example, let us find the mantra for the Moon from the perspective of the Sun. Let 
us suppose the Sun is at 8°10’ Leo and the Moon is at 4°30’ Sagittarius. First find the number 
for the Sun from the table as we did above, which is 39, and then the number for the Moon 
from the table which is 74, as 4°30’ is greater than 3°20’ and less than 6°40’. Now subtract 39 
from 74 and add 1, which gives you 36. Then find mantra 36 in the mantra list for the Moon. 
We add 1 because if both planets have the same number, the answer has to be 1, there is no 
mantra for zero. If the subtraction gives a negative value, just add 108 to the result. 


Now you know how to find key mantras for your chart in general and for your Dasha cy- 
cles. | recommend you start with ‘God’s view’ as this can be considered the most important. 


(The table is on the next page) 


Degrees up to 


Sign 3° 6° 40% “1380 “46? <20% 93% BE --30° 
20’ 40’ 20’ = 40’ 20’ = 40’ 

Aries 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 

Taurus 10. ~=«11 12 13 14 15 16 #17 ~ 18 

Gemini 19 20 21 22 23 24 2 26 27 


Cancer 28 29 30 ~~ 31 32 33 34 35 36 


Leo 37 38 39 40 = 41 42 43 44 45 
Virgo 46 47 48 49 50 51 52 5354 
Libra 55 56 «57 58 59 #60 61 62 63 


Scorpio 64 65 66 67 68 69 70 71 72 
Sagittarius 73 74 15 7 77 78 79 ~=©680-~—St—s«éO83211 
Capricorn 82 83 84 85 86 87 88 89 90 
Aquarius 91 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 
Pisces 100 101 102 103 104 105 106 107 108 


THe AsTROLOGICAL Houses 


In various places in this book you will find reference to houses or places from some 
important personal marker such as the Ascendant or the Moon. The simplest and traditional 
way of understanding this is in terms of the 12 signs of the zodiac, Aries, Taurus, etc. If 
the Moon is in Taurus, then Taurus is the first house or place from the Moon. Gemini is the 
second. Aries is the twelfth, etc. One only has to count round by signs. The Ascendant is in 


the sign rising on the Eastern horizon at the time of birth. 


THE JOURNEY 


On March 3rd 1995, | entered the sacred and tranquil valley surrounding the small 
village of Kollur. | had fostered a desire to visit here for eight years since a friend told me about 
it. | did not know why | felt this connection but when | was finally able to travel to India | set 
my heart on reaching that place. It seemed very special and | must have feared going straight 
there in case my energy was unprepared. | chose to go first to Tamil Nadu on the opposite 


coast and to the great temple of Rameshvaram. 


Rameshvaram is on the spit of land opposite Sri Lanka. This is the place Shri Rama 
worshipped Lord Shiva before launching his campaign to recover his wife Sita from the 
demon king. To cross the ocean, his army of monkeys and bears built a bridge or causeway 
across the ocean. This was many thousands of years ago but, amazingly, the remains of a 
causeway to Sri Lanka are still visible in satellite photos. According to temple records, Shit 
Rama’s bridge was passable being completely above the sea until destroyed by a cyclone in 
1480 AD. 


From Rameshvaram, | visited the great temple of Minakshi and thence to the very tip of 
India, Kanyakumari. This place has remarkable temples especially that of the Virgin Goddess. 
| rose and went at 3:30 am and was almost alone in witnessing the bathing of the Goddess in 
milk. It was the Full Moon day. A little later | did homage to the shrine for the Navagraha and 
received a distinct blessing. Prior to that | had done some study of Jyotisha but had received 
no authority from any Guru or other source to study and practice. This was a most unex- 


pected Grace. 


From Kanyakumari, | travelled up the Kerala coast visiting Ashrams and temples until 
| came to Kollur. It was a great moment, though for no obvious reason at all. Kollur is home 
to the famous temple of Devi Mookambika, the Goddess of the mouth. It is said she grants 
blessings related to the voice and the arts. Most evenings, artists from all over India come to 


perform before her. They sing, dance and play instruments. 


At the time | knew nothing about this temple. | did not know that astrologers from all 
over South India come here to pray and do penance for Vak Siddhi, the power that whatever 
one says proves true. After all, people expect an astrologer to have this power. While, in rare 
cases, it is possible that a person is born with this, generally it only arises after long and sin- 
cere spiritual practice. This is why Vedic Astrology, Jyotisha, is primarily a spiritual discipline 


and one should seek a guru or gurus to guide one’s spiritual and intellectual development. 


The essence of success in an earthly endeavour is the Grace of the Goddess and for 


each aspirant there is some form that appeals to him or her and which can grant success. 


There are rules for finding this form but ultimately it is very personal. | should make it clear that 
talk of gods and goddesses does not conflict with the monotheistic view because the Vedic 
view is that the One takes whatever form we desire or can be approached as purely formless 
if that is our path. 


The worship of the Goddess in India is, at its peak, related to the Shri Vidya and the 
Shri Chakra. The great sage and teacher Adi Shankaracharya installed a Shri Chakra under 
the deity in the Mookambika temple. After some time in Kollur, | came to know that he also 
installed a Shri Chakra at the top of the highest mountain nearby where the root shrine of 
the Goddess is to be found. Part of the pilgrimage is to walk to the top of this mountain. It 
is about 12 miles or one can take the bus part of the way and walk the last 3-4 hours. | had 
many extraordinary experiences on this mountain as well as in the temple, which | will write 
about elsewhere. 


While | was staying at the temple, somehow | conceived of this book. It seemed to me 
that the sets of 108 names of the Grahas (planets) were important and used by astrologers 
but | could find no trace of a translation or commentary. So | started making notes. When | 
could not understand a word, | discussed it with my friend UmaShankar Jois who is one of the 
distinguished priests at the temple. He studied Jyotisha with a great Guru though he passed 
away before my friend’s studies were complete. UmaShankar is a great expert in the remedial 
measures and he felt | had some knowledge on the analysis of charts so we spent a lot of time 
discussing Jyotisha together. 


I stayed at Kollur for more than 40 days, as is the custom, and then went for Shivaratri 
in Varanasi. This is the greatest festival for Lord Shiva and Varanasi is considered the city of 
Shiva, and is one of the most profound places to celebrate it. As | was about to leave Kollur, 
| went to the temple to take Her leave to go. The priests put me at the front during the Arti 
(ritual waving of lights before the shrine), which is the peak of the evening worship. Then | got 
on the bus to go to Bangalore where | could catch a train for the North. 


As it happened, the conductor of this bus was part of a ring of thieves who stole the 
luggage of innocents like me. | arrived in Bangalore without anything, all my notes were gone. 
Still | managed to continue my journey and reached Varanasi, the great city of Shiva, at 4 am 
on Shivaratri. | washed and went straight to the temple having no luggage to concern me. 
Standing in the queue | noticed that | was the only male wearing traditional clothing. There 
was a guard on the door and they often turn ‘tourists’ away. He looked me over for a while 
and then enthusiastically said ‘om namah Ssivaya’ and waived me in. 


The next year, | returned to Kollur with another notebook. | started by writing down all 
that | remembered and naturally found that my understanding had improved over the year and 
quickly was ahead of my previous work. When | left Kollur after another 40+ days | had just 


a few names which | could not decipher. | visited Prof. Ramachandra Rao in Bangalore who 
was one of the two people that | found who had published the lists of the names. We had an 
interesting discussion. He was a very great scholar. Unfortunately, he has now passed away. 
Travelling through India | met many good scholars who kindly gave me their opinions so the 
meanings became clear. Since then, from time to time | wrote my small commentary. It re- 


flects many stages in my own spiritual life. | hope you enjoy it. 


In 2007, | visited a small house a few miles north of the great Konark temple. This 
temple, though now partially ruined, was perhaps India’s greatest temple to the Sun god. It 
is built like a giant chariot. Some of the carvings are now in the British Museum including 
the large carvings of the nine Grahas (planets). The Konark temple stands near the beach in 
the North Eastern part of India’s V shape so is one of the first places to see the rays of the 
rising Sun. Konark is some 20 miles north of Puri where the great Jagannatha temple of Lord 
Krishna is to be found administered by the Shankaracharya of the East. He is charged with 


maintaining the Rig Veda, accepted as humanity’s oldest recorded wisdom text. 


About 500 years ago, the great spiritual teacher Chaitanya Mahaprabhu resided here 
and the lineages derived from him are still very widespread today, such as ISKCON. He had 
five ‘sakhas’ or friends, as they were called, one of which was Swami Achyutananda. The 
Swami was initiated by the great teacher at an early age and went on to become the King’s 
astrologer, a noted author of over 200 books and an enlightened sage. He also founded 13 
schools in the region. These taught various sciences and several were dedicated to Jyotisha. 
When he was leaving his body, he promised to remain in a ‘shunya’ form. Shunya means the 
void and it is a term he explained in great depth in one of his books. It does not refer to mere 


nothingness but to a profound state of Being. 


He kept his promise and even today you can go and consult him. That is where | was 
going. There is a small shrine and next to it are the quarters of a pandit who keeps and 
interprets a set of copper plates (tamra poti). These plates only contain some drawings like 
the shape of a lotus, but when you enter there with a question in your mind, the answer 
appears written in ancient Odia (the local language 500 years ago) and the pandit reads them 
for you. If you look, you can actually see the writing appear. | went there with several friends, 
all of whom were students of Pandit Sanjay Rath who is the last remaining person carrying 
the knowledge of the Jyotisha schools founded by the Swami. In effect, we had joined his 
lineage. The answers we got were remarkably pertinent and insightful. We were all given 
mantras. | later talked to a colleague who has taken over 40 people there and he said no one 


had ever been given a mantra. 


The Swami told me to finish my book. | noticed that when | did the mantra, | would 


work more on this text. | hope he forgives me for the long time spent in fulfilling his instruction 


but perhaps | or the time was not ripe before now. This year (2015) marks the 20th year since 
| started and only this year did | make the important discovery about the Vimshottari Dasha 
which is published in this book. In the derivation of the Vimshottari Dasha cycles or periods, 


the great significance of 20 years is revealed. 


The name of the Sun temple is from Kona + Arka. Arka is a name of the Sun and 
Kona means trine. In Jyotisha, this indicates the Dharma Trikona, the sustainer of life, which | 
have written about in many places in this book and is so important in the interpretation of the 


Vimshottari Dasha. 


NOTES ON PRONOUNCIATION FROM THE TRANSLITERATION 


In the transliteration, there are marks called diacriticals that aid correct pronunciation. 


In Sanskrit there are long and short syllables. The long ones are to be sounded for 
twice as long as the short ones, even longer is OK. Vowels with a line over them like ‘a’ and 
double vowels like ‘ai’ are all long. ‘h’ (h with a dot under it) is pronounced like ‘ah’, that is 
with aspiration. It is often pronounced as ‘ahah’ but this is not recommended for mantras as 
it effectively adds another syllable and the syllable count of a mantra is important. ‘s’ with an 


acute accent is like ‘sh’. For example, ‘Sukrah’ is pronounced ‘shukrah’. 


Consonants or sibilants with a dot under them like t or s are retroflex. For example, t is 
pronounced as the ‘t’ in Tom. You curl your tongue back and strike your palate. ‘t’ on the other 
hand is a dental sound. ‘th’ is ‘t’ with some aspiration as are all the other syllables that have 


an ‘h’ like ‘bh’, ‘dh’ and ‘gh’. You just blow a little when saying the consonant. 


The ‘r’ such as in ‘brhat’ is a vowel in Sanskrit pronounced like the ‘ry’ in jewelry. ‘c’ is 
pronounced as ‘ch’, as in ‘change’. In the commentary, | usually use ‘ch’. If ‘ch’ appears in the 
transliteration, then it is like ‘chh’, which is ‘ch’ with some extra aspiration. 


Please visit a Sanskrit learning web site or teacher for more detailed advice. One good 
site is learnsanskrit.org. 


The Devanagari (Sanskrit) support on a PC is excellent but may not be so perfect on 
mobile devices. Older Kindle devices and other eReaders may not show it at all. One can al- 


ways check against the transliteration, which should be correct. 


Please note that the first time part of a mantra is mentioned in the following text, it is 
italicized. Sanskrit terms in the commentaries are often transliterated but not always accord- 
ing to the more rigorous scheme. Sometimes the more usual form is followed using the stan- 
dard English alphabet. 


HYMN IN HONOUR OF THE PLANETS 


so Th TUNA Aa: 


om gar ganapataye namah 


Sa HURRAH AM: IM YTHE Sera 
TEM Yr: Walghda: Fs Wer: WA HU Fadil 


brahma muraristripurantakarl bhanuh Sast 
bhiUmisuto budhasca | 
gurusca Sukrah Sanirahuketavah sarve grahah 


Santi kara bhavantu || 


Brahma (the Creator), Murari (Vishnu, the Sustainer), Tripurantakarin (Siva, the slayer of the 
demon Tripurasura), Bhanu (the Sun), Shashin (the Moon), Bhimisuta (Mars, the son of the 
Earth), Budha (Mercury), Guru (Jupiter), Shukra (Venus), Shani (Saturn), Rahu and Ketu, may 


all these Grahas be peaceful. 


SATURN, SHANI 


Xo TAHT AA: 


om Sanaiscaraya namah 


1. Salutations to the one who moves slowly. 


Shani means slow and Chara means move so Shanaishchara is one who moves slowly. 
It takes Saturn about 30 years to traverse the whole zodiac. This name also indicates moving 
gently, quietly, gradually, mildly, softly, sluggishly and so forth. Saturn is the slowest moving 
visible planet and this characteristic is clearly of prime importance as it is mentioned first. Do 


not expect Saturn to give the results of his yogas (astrological combinations) quickly! 


Gentleness and quietness are not the words that spring to the minds of most students 
of Jyotisha in regard to Saturn. They are, however, the natural characteristic of the swami, 
a word | am choosing to use for the awakened and surrendered ascetic. This is the highest 
value of life indicated by Saturn. A swami is one Wie: when moving or acting, never disturbs 
the natural law. As a Graha in the Vedic chart, "Shani sets everything to act in accord withthe 


natural law. A swami is not one who follows any set mode of life or wears any particular garb, 
but one who is established in the state of Being suggested or described by these names. 


30 Bas AA: 


om santaya namah 


2. The peaceful, contented one. 


Shanta is the nature of the swami and it is the influence of Shani that can make one a 
swami. An association between Saturn and the Moon is common in the charts of saints. In the 
beginning, this combination usually brings some unhappiness as Saturn restricts the Moon’s 


search for outer happiness. This motivates a search for the real source of joy. 


My own experience may be of interest here. | have Saturn tightly aspecting my Moon. 
Misery set in from the beginning of Saturn’s Mahadasha (major planetary cycle of 19 years). 
During the sub-cycle of Venus, | was chronically depressed. | began to realize, in my own 
words, that the only way ‘out’ was ‘in’. | turned to prayer and that led to meditation. | aban- 
doned all personal aims and devoted myself to the inner path as | understood it. Gradually the 
depression thinned and one day bliss started arising. Now | never experience depression and 


3-Highlightets-a7ss---recscecesccacseret ester stsresiecs 
life has an underlying nectar despite the natural ups and downs of emotion. 


From this, | know that life in sweetness, born of surrender to truth, is the other side of 
mHighlighters so 299-7 a-o- screenees ea Poe oeoc antes ora ara aa aerate ean se ees So satis stn one ce 

the coin from depression arising from the Saturn Moon connection. Once Saturn is satisfied, 
Sots tpreassnn erat sa pelnoananee vasa skisce ae tcansbesaina estates danas reser hs cao oe nar ew setae 7 Highlighters ------------------->- 
what remains is Shanta: peace, contentment, satisfaction, tranquility. hanta can also indi- 


cate stilled, purified, even deceased. Itis said that one has to die to the world in order to truly 


live. Here again, the character of the swami is indicated. 


xo WasTipyeat Aa: 


om sarvabhistapradayine namah 


3. The giver (Pradayin) of all blessings (Sarvabhista), everything one could desire. 


See the greatness of Saturn. It is said that one who has no neediness or longing, one 
who is truly Shanta, can grant the fulfilment of any desire of another person who petitions 
him. There is a story of the great sage Vyasa. A woman approached him desirous of having a 
child. He blessed her and then she easily conceived with her husband having failed for many 
years. Sometime later Vyasa himself became desirous of having a son. It is said that he had 
to meditate for a hundred years before he was able to fulfil his desire. If one truly surrenders 


% Higiligitters ss +--+ s+ ++ pokes aes 


what one desires, then that object easily arises if needed, otherwise much trouble occurs in 


Very few pray to Saturn for fulfilment of desires, they turn to him to be free from misery. 
The misery is due to our holding on to what we really do not need. Saturn is gently trying to 


6 Highlighters -- ------------ secretes soo one cscs tence enen scene ccc eenecc eee ncecennccee nesses ces cerseccneececeerecteeee cote seeseeesecees 
get us to let go. This resistance to our willfulness appears merciless but when we yield, he 


30 IRUATA AH: 


om Saranyaya namah 


4. The refuge and protector. 


Sharanya indicates those in need of protection, the poor, the miserable, the hurt and 
the injured. Saturn indicates them and also signifies those who are capable of giving refuge. 
In India, it is considered that there is no greater refuge than the feet of the Guru who is natu- 


rally a swami. 


Xo SUT AH: 


om varenyaya namah 


5. The most excellent one, the chief. 


Varenya is the desired one. Varenya is also saffron, the most precious condiment and 
the colour traditionally worn by the swamis. It is meant to indicate that the outer fire of the 
householder life has been taken inside and that the inner fire has been awakened and has 


burnt all impurities. 


Saturn represents the ascetics and Saturn’s influence is what makes us take up any 
3 Highilahters's== ches cssess<scs deka pec cc anise se ac snirs pees snoe cost ansstecs nen ecsen cs hanesses tastes cces ss teres tess 
ascetic activity like meditation. Without his influence, one would not think of such a thing. 


Even amongst ascetics, there are variations. | once lived in a monastery and all the rooms 
were simple but one friend had no furniture or carpet and was sleeping on a thin mat on the 


floor. Only Saturn makes one do that. 


Xo GAM Aa: 


om sarvesaya namah 


6. The Lord (sha) of all (Sarva). 


Who is not under the influence of Saturn? According to the ancient Vedic stories, even 
Lord Shiva and his son Lord Ganesha could not escape. In one story of the birth of Lord 
Ganesha, all the Grahas except Saturn were invited to celebrate the birth of the child. Lord 
Shiva’s wife Parvati noticed the absence of Shani and asked why. Lord Shiva advised that it 
was better he was not there but She insisted he be invited. When Shani saw the child, the 
child’s head fell off and had to be replaced by an elephant’s. Of course, this story is to help us 
understand the effect of Saturn’s Drishti or aspect. In an astrological chart certain places are 
said to be aspected by Saturn. Where that aspect falls, we have humiliating experiences that 


? Highlighters: ~ 


help our ego fall. After that, the new ead’ of wisdom rPplaces it. 


In another village story, someone told Lord Shiva his 7% years of Saturn were about 
to start. This is called Sade Sati (7%) and is when Saturn passes over the twelfth, first and 
second zodiacal signs from the natal Moon. Shiva promptly dived into the Ganges and sat 
in meditation, undisturbed, for 7% years. Emerging, He commented that the transit of Saturn 
had had no effect. “But, Lord,” someone said, “you had to sit on the bottom of the Ganges for 


7% years.” It is all a matter of viewpoint. 


Xo Geary AH: 


om saumyaya namah 


7. The mild, peaceful one (Saumya). 


It is hard to find a more sweet description of any being than Saumya. It means nectar- 
like, agreeable, pleasing, gentle, soft, handsome, auspicious. Saturn rules over many charac- 
teristics opposite to these and this mantra may well be to appeal for relief from the dry, rough 
and ugly. Saumya is the nature of the swami, which is the embodiment of Saturn’s highest 
nature. This state of peace is given by him having been satisfied by a total surrender to truth. 


In the Dig Chakra, the special astrological chart of the compass directions, Saturn is 
opposite the Sun, forming an axis. This is very significant. Those whose souls are ruled by 
either Saturn or the Sun share a path. They both have to rise above sorrow. Saturn represents 
asceticism and the Sun, truth. Thus the ascetic must seek truth and the knower of truth find 


dispassion and rise above self-interest. 


xo Uta-qa AA: 
om suravandyaya namah 


8. Worshipped (Vandya) by the gods (Sura). 


Even those who are immortal worship him, the one who determines truth and conse- 
quences. As long as any being has a sense of relativity, consequences matter and hence he 
is worshiped for protection. All beings attend to Being which gives life to them. All kinds of 
worship amount to giving attention. The deeply ignorant have little awareness of Being but 
the immortals, who exist very close to Being, are constantly attending to That. It alone is truly 
immortal so one cannot be immortal except by constant attention to That. Thus the great at- 
tend to the Great. 


30 UHH A: 


om suralokaviharine namah 


9. Roaming agreeably (Viharin) through the heavens (Sura Loka). 


One who has attained Divine consciousness moves here and there with complete 
SHighlighterssac-Fssss<0eese- Sascha = oss S52 Sse ea Nae saan naka Aann tac ana schcesgns aed ya ssee acct earacnne beaten ah sacsh saa s 
ease, unconcerned for anything. The body may experience various things but the inner being 


is unaffected. It ‘exists in Sura Loka, heaven, literally the world of nectar. The enlivenment of 
the inner being causes every movement to generate sweetness, whatever the consequences 


for the outer shell of the body and mind. 


In Jyotisha, Sura Loka is the region of the zodiac containing the signs from Sagittarius 
to Pisces. This includes the two signs of Saturn, Capricorn and Aquarius. Saturn is at its most 
auspicious in Sagittarius and Pisces, due to the benign guiding influence of Jupiter. 


Xo TERA FA: 


om sukhasanopavistaya namah 


10. Seated (Upavista) comfortably. 


That inner awakening leads to both sweetness in motion and complete ease at rest. 


Sukhasana is a comfortable Yogic pose and literally means an easy seat or position. 


So Eau AA: 
om sundaraya namah 
11. The beautiful one (Sundara). 


That inner state is the ultimate beauty and those who know it become the most 
beautiful and attractive amongst beings. It is the supreme beauty and whoever radiates more 
of it, is more attractive. The basis of this state is the lack of ego, the sign of which is when ‘I’, 


‘me’ and ‘mine’ scarcely arise in the mind. The greatest wealth is humility, as Lord Jesus said. 
30 UATE AH: 
om ghanaya namah 


12. The great one. Ghana is firm, compact, dense, concentrated, impenetrable. As such it is 


permanent and complete. It is auspicious. 


30 UASUTY AG: 


om ghanarupaya namah 


13. His form is Ghana: firm, auspicious and unable to be disturbed. 


30 UAT AA: 


om ghanabharanadharine namah 


14. He is wearing (Dharin) ornaments (Abharana) that are auspicious, great and unbreakable 
(Ghana). 


30 UAaNactuy AA: 


om ghanasaravilepaya namah 


15. Anointed (Vilepa) with the essence (Sara) of stability (Ghana). 


What use to fight with him? Nothing will disturb his motion or change his will. 


xo Gara AA: 


om khadyotaya namah 


16. A flash of light (Khadyota). 


This is also a name of the Sun. It can mean a firefly. It has the suggestion of a source 
of light or flash of brilliance. While it might seem strange to use the same name for the two 
vastly different lights, we have already seen that the Sun and Saturn are linked on a directional 
axis and are father and son according to Jyotisha. While the light of Saturn as a planet is fairly 
faint, its influence brings us to the light of life represented by the Sun. Thus the repetition of 
this name, amongst other names pointing to this same state, is most appropriate. Awakening 


is like a flash of light, even though that light is not a worldly one. 


30 A-CTa AA: 

om mandaya namah 

17. Tarrying, languishing, loitering, shining, rejoicing, to be drunk (Manda). The slowed down 
and euphoric condition. 


This state arises as pure consciousness dawns in human awareness and Saturn, as 
Lord Shiva, represents that state sitting at the top of the path of the Kundalini. Once the 
energy reaches that place, the nectar starts to be produced causing a state sometimes su- 


perficially akin to drunkenness, filled with intoxicating bliss. 


On the other hand, unless there are strong positive influences especially of Jupiter and 


the Sun, Saturn’s influence can cause laziness and bad habits. 


so HCApT AA: 


om mandacestaya namah 


18. Moving slowly (Manda Chesta). 


The awakened move in a state of bliss with no concerns. 


Xo TEAR AA: 


om mahaniyagunatmane namah 


19. His very soul (Atman) is endowed with the quality (Guna) of worthiness; he is illustrious, 


respectable, glorious, exalted and noble (Vahaniya). 


Just because someone has Saturn in the Ascendant, the first house, does not mean 
that he or she is somehow lowly or unkempt. This placement occurs in many of the great- 
est souls from great saints to political leaders like former British Prime Minister Margaret 
Thatcher. Mrs. Thatcher had Saturn exalted in the Ascendant as does Swami Shivkrupanand, 
one of India’s well-known saints. Both have Libra rising, where Shani is exalted, and dress 


smartly. The effect of this placement on the personality depends on the condition of Saturn. 


In Karl Marx’s chart, Saturn rises in Aquarius giving an influence over the masses but 
the Tamas of both Saturn and its sign might explain the suffering that followed the spread 
of his ideas though the condition of the working class, which Saturn signifies, did improve in 
many countries. Indira Gandhi and George W Bush both have Saturn in Cancer in the first 
house. Generally the Sattvic nature of Cancer improves Saturn. It’s a royal sign but it is a sign 
that cares. However, whether other people think the person cares depends on other factors, 
particularly the Arudha (or shadow) Ascendant. President G.W. Bush’s Arudha is in secretive 
Scorpio, Indian Prime Minister Mrs Gandhi's is in royal Aries. 


xo ACGMIAAUIAY AA: 
om martyapavanapadaya namah 
20. He purifies (Pavana) mortals (Martya) by his movement . 


Pada is foot implying his position, especially his Navamsha, as he moves through the 
zodiac. We tend to be afraid of Saturn’s transits but this name alerts us to the purpose of the 
experiences caused. Through being called to account for past misdeeds, we get purified and 


eventually we become fit for Divine grace, the highest reward or blessing. 
xo Fema AH: 
om mahesaya namah 


21. The great lord (Vahesha). 


This is a name of Lord Shiva and points to the natural connection between Shani and 


Shiva. If Saturn is afflicted in the natal chart or its transit appears threatening, then worship- 


ping Shiva can help. This name makes an excellent mantra. 


30 SMITA AH: 


om chayaputraya namah 


22. The son (Putra) of the shadow. 


Chhaya is a wife of the Sun and also means shadow. Saturn is said to be the son of the 
Sun but not by his true wife. The story goes that the Sun’s wife Prajfia became tired of living 
with the intense heat of the Sun so she left, putting her shadow in her place. Prajhia means 
wise and indicates consciousness. It is pronounced like Pragya. The Sun did not notice the 
difference and had two children with Chhaya, the first of whom was Saturn, Shani. There are 
various versions of this story but in all of them the Sun eventually realized something was 


wrong. (See Saturn 73.) 


It is easy to put an interpretation on this since the Sun represents the Supreme Soul 
and its ‘wife’ awakened consciousness, or alternatively the ego and its ‘wife’ illusion, full of 
differences and preference. Awakening is fiery, as it burns up the worldly appearance, but 
ignorance, for all its apparent comforts, is always filled with selfishness. This is due to having 
self-preservation as its root and self-perpetuation and promotion as its branches. This en- 
sures a tradition of sorrow. 


Chhaya apologized and the Sun was reunited with his true wife after her father, the 
great cosmic architect, toned down his fieriness. They all lived happily ever after. The initial 
stages of awakening may be accompanied with excess heat in the body. Once it becomes 
permanent, this ceases. This is why one should not push the Yogic practices, especially 


Pranayama, or one may have heat problems. 


30 Wary AA: 


om Sarvaya namah 


23. Causing evolution (Sharva). 


This is aname accorded to Lords Shiva and Vishnu. It shows their power over anything 
mortal — the whole world. It also means ‘going’ or with the power to injure. There is no injury 
except to the ego and the sense of moving pertains to the sense of a process of evolution as 


the ego is whittled away. 


xo MUIR AH: 


om Satatiniradharine namah 
24. Carrying (Dharin) a quiver (TiGnira) with a hundred (Shata) arrows (or having a hundred 
quivers). 


The idea is that he has an inexhaustible supply of darts to fire! 


Bo WUEMEAMTAT AA: 
om carasthirasvabhavaya namah 


25. His nature (Gvabhava) is both moveable (Chara) and fixed (Sthira). 


He rules over two signs of the zodiac: Capricorn, which is a moveable sign, and Aquar- 


ius, which is fixed. 


Xo Taya AA: 


om acaficalaya namah 


26. Steady and reliable. 


Chanchala is fickle, unsteady or tremulous. Achanchala means the opposite. Despite 
being moveable, he is steady. Thus those with a strong influence of Capricorn are not unsta- 
ble or flinching. This is why they are often very successful. Indeed, Capricorn represents the 


big business people. 


If Saturn is afflicted, then Chanchala can prevail. The greater the affliction, the more 
difficult it becomes to complete any task. Those who have repeated problems holding down 


a job and other such problems may need a remedy for Saturn such as this mantra. 


Xo Fea AA: 


om nilavarnaya namah 


27. Blue-coloured (Nila- Varna). 


Saturn is especially connected to black, blue or dark-blue, all of which can be called 
Nila-Varna, and also gems of such colours. The blue sapphire is called Nila in Sanskrit and 
that is his stone. It is very cooling like Saturn so it should only be worn if one can cope with 


that. These stones can also be very different one from another and sometimes their effect 


is intense. Therefore, it is recommended that one tests the stone by having it for a day and 
seeing the experiences that come. If they are welcome, then buy the stone. Good Jyotisha 


jewellers will allow you to do this. 


Starting here are five names beginning with ‘Ni’ or ‘N7’. ‘Ni’ has the meaning of ‘in’ or 
‘within’, while ‘Nr (long ‘i’ as in this name) has the sense of leading, subjugating or carrying 
the rod of punishment. While ‘blue-coloured’ might sound innocuous, there is much within it. 
Varna means nature as well as colour, so this name can also mean the one who can make us 
submit. Those with a strong influence of Saturn have to be very careful not to be too hard on 


others giving an impression of being cold or uncaring. 


30 Facey Aa: 


om nityaya namah 


28. Eternal. 


Nitya also indicates duties which have to be performed regularly. This includes caring 
for children and parents, serving the nation (such as paying taxes) and doing one’s chosen or 
allotted work. Also indicated are religious duties that are prescribed to be done regularly, like 
daily prayer and meditation for those belonging to almost all religions and spiritual lineages. 
Saturn rules over these duties. He makes us do them and is pleased when we maintain them. 
Whether we are good at them is also indicated by Saturn in the chart. 


30 TABATA AA: 
om nilahjananibhaya namah 
29. Resembling (Nibha) blue or dark (Nila) mascara. 


Afijana is a decorative ointment made from antimony sulfide, which is blackish and 
was used as an eye ointment in the ancient world. This helps us understand the depth of 
blue intended. Vishnu and Krishna are said to be Nila, having a bluish tinge, and Shiva is Nila 
Kantha, blue throated. 


Ro ATTA aTy AH: 
om nilambaravibhusaya namah 


30. Adorned (Vibhtisa) with dark blue (Nila) clothes (Ambara). 


People in authority or who wield strong influence tend to wear blue or black. It has 


become a global trend in recent times. Previously, dress reflected a broader range of plane- 


tary influences. 


On a spiritual level, the finest consciousness can be experienced as a deep blue. Per- 


haps this is why both Rama and Krishna are said to be dark or bluish in hue. 


30 Faarera AA: 


om niscalaya namah 


31. Immoveable (Nishchaila). 


He represents karma which has to happen but one should avoid being fatalistic. 
Honesty, humility and spiritual practices do make his cycles increasingly bearable and ulti- 


mately blissful. His grinding promotes these good values and activities. 


x0 AQT AA: 


om vedyaya namah 


32. Famous and celebrated (Vedya). That which is to be known. 


Saturn represents the wisdom that is to be known and those who are famous for this 
learning. They have done the work to overcome their own egoistic tendencies and realized 
the truth. 


We know from Physics that there are five fundamental force fields each with a specific 
particle that carries the force. The first is gravity and the graviton. This correlates to the Vedic 
element of Akasha or space. The second is the gravitino, which generates motion in the 
space. This is like the Vedic Vayu or air. Then there is the photon (light) like the Vedic Agni or 
fire, the fermions that are like the Vedic Jala or water and, finally, the Higgs boson, which is 


the creator of mass and equates to the Vedic Prithvi or earth 


Here begins a long series of names beginning with the letter ‘v’. ‘V’ when it moves (‘y’), 
becomes Vayu ruled over by Shani. Vayu is the mobile element. Everything that moves has 
the influence of Vayu. In fact, ‘va’ alone means air or wind. It also has the sense of strength 
and power. ‘Ve’ is to combine or compose and is the root of Veda, the hymns or vibrations 
which weave the basis of all natural law. ‘Vi’ is to separate and is thus the basis of discrimina- 
tion or the path which observes the natural law and discerns its components. Ultimately, this 
leads to the recognition of the unity behind the diversity. ‘Vai’ is a combination of ‘Va’ and ‘Vi’ 
or that which arises from ‘Vi’, which is indifference to the world. It is the turning away from the 


creative process of ‘Ve’ towards that which ‘Vi’ reveals. Shani, as we see below, rules over 


Vairagya or dispassion (Saturn 37). 


First it is said that Saturn represents the masters of ‘Ve’, those celebrated for their 
leaning. Then, immediately, the sequence starts to explore ‘Vi’. In Saturn 33, we see that the 


first thing that arises from learnedness is a clear understanding of the laws. 


xo Tatereury AA: 


om vidhirupaya namah 


33. Whose very form (Rupa) is the sacred law. 


Vidhi are precepts, the laws or rules to be followed in religious or mundane matters. 
It also relates to fate, destiny and luck, and also conduct in accordance with the natural law. 


Saturn requires us to live by the sacred law. To the extent we do, we are spared punishment. 


In an ancient time, a sage was sitting in deep meditation in a forest. A thief pursued by 
the king’s men passed by. When the soldiers came there they demanded information from the 
sage. He did not answer. He was in deep Samadhi (Venus 68), a non-active but totally con- 
scious state of awareness which can be devoid of outer sensory experience. He had not seen 
the thief nor heard the soldiers. Enraged, they pinned him to a tree with a spear and moved 
on. After some time the sage came out of meditation to find his predicament. He survived but 
was gripped with the question of why this had happened to him. He summoned Lord Yama, 
who, like St Peter in Christian lore, keeps the records of people’s acts and accords them their 
due. Challenged to explain, Lord Yama said that the sage, as a child, had made a sport of 
piercing locusts with a very sharp kind of grass. The accumulation of this cruelty had led to 


his experience. 


The sage became angry because he felt that the acts of a child, being ignorant of right 
and wrong, should not be so seriously punished. He cursed Lord Yama to spend some time 
as a human being. Then his name was Vidura (see Mars 26). This was thought a terrible curse 
for a divine being, since human life was considered a kind of hell. This story is part of the build 
up to the Mahabharata war where many divine beings participated in perhaps the greatest 
human drama of all time. Since no great one would come to Earth voluntarily, various events 
like this one led to the great confluence of divinity on Earth that accompanied the incarnation 
of Lord Krishna. The story of the Mahabharata is one of the greatest epics ever composed 
in human history and one of the two oldest. It is a miracle that we have this story after 5000 


years, 


Rarely do we hear any discussion about the extraordinary nature of the Sanskrit 
literature and the genius it represents. No mind of the 21$t century could achieve what the an- 


cients achieved when they set down these great epics, the ancient sciences and the Sanskrit 


grammar itself. Jyotisha, Vedic Astrology, is a gem far beyond anything we could reconstruct 


today with all our computers and theoretical skills. 


The Sanskrit language is one of the most outstanding achievements of humanity with 
its highly scientific design. Indeed, the language is said to be of divine origin. Other early 
languages like Greek and Latin and even some languages still spoken like Zulu retain some 
of the ancient inflected (prefix/suffix) design. Most modern languages, like English and Hindi, 
are primitive in comparison to Sanskrit. In earlier times there was a language of the educated, 
Sanskrit, which literally meaning polished or cultured, and a common tongue called Prakrit 
from which the modern languages evolved. A similar thing occurred during Roman times 
where there was Latin as well as Vulgar Latin spoken by the masses from which came French, 


Italian and Spanish. 


Strangely, we think that we have advanced since those days, but it is clear that in 
linguistics and even genera! mental clarity, we appear to have regressed. Sanskrit is based 
on roots from which verbs and nouns, etc. are constructed. Sanskrit has some 2,200 roots. 
The incredible thing is that only about 900 of these are actually used in the literature we have. 


The complete package is at least twice as powerful as was needed for speech and literature. 


In the other great epic, the Ramayana, a story tells us that the sage Bharadwaja, one 
of the Vedic seers, just by reciting certain mantras created a whole city with all amenities 
including rivers of milk and honey and nymphs summoned from heaven. This was to house 
and entertain an army overnight. It particularly mentions that his pronunciation was perfect. 
Only a completely pure consciousness could pronounce perfectly and this along with the 
purity of the atmosphere and the collective consciousness at that time made such a thing 
possible. In recent times, saints have achieved small examples of physical materializations 
through mantras but say that the pollution of the subtle and gross atmosphere has made the 


achievements of the ancients impossible. 


We are proud of our technology but it is not the only kind of technology that exists. 
Sacred technologies are hard to master without significant purification of consciousness. The 
Yoga Sutras, the basis of the Yogic science, tell us that only one who has attained omnipo- 
tence and then completely renounced it has ‘roasted the seeds of evil’. Only such a one is a 
truly safe pair of hands. This warning tells us that the initial power that comes with expanding 
consciousness should not be exploited. What the world needs is pure hearts and minds, not 
great power in the hands of the unfit. That purity, of itself, causes nature to return to balance. 
Let us all do our best to purify ourselves, and Shani, in the form of the sacred law, gives us 


the direction to do so. 


so TMT AA: 


om virodhadharabhumaye namah 


34. Removing the illusion of worldliness. 


More literally, it means causing strife (Virodha) between or with the rulers. Literally, 
opposing the support of the earth (Adharabhtimi) or causing strife for that which supports the 
earth. It is the rulers who maintain peace and order and therefore sustain human life on Earth. 
This name can be taken in the sense of calamities that befall kingdoms or those forces that 
oppose kings. In Jyotisha, Saturn and the Sun are enemies. The Sun represents the kings and 
Saturn the servants, which can be extended to the citizenry in general. They represent the 


‘royalist’ and the ‘democratic’ camps. 


This name can refer to ecological calamities. Saturn is related to Vayu , the air or wind 
element, and his movement into the houses of our chart tends to be like a storm arriving. 
This name tells us that Vayu opposes Prithvi, the earth element signified by Mercury. His sign, 
Virgo, has a particular problem with Saturn. The answer is to worship the light of conscious- 
ness represented by the Sun. Hence, Savitr, the spiritual Sun, rules the Nakshatra in the mid- 


dle of Virgo. The Gayatri mantra especially helps us overcome the darkness of Saturn. 


More esoterically, Saturn undermines worldliness itself. With this name, ‘Vi’ begins to 
dismantle the illusion that the world is real. We are reminded here of the seven and a half years 
of Shani, the Sade Sati (see Saturn 6). This transit is famous in India for being a time of great 
challenges but other transits of Saturn can shake our world. 


Mantras like this one should not be repeated casually. We can meditate on the deeper 
spiritual meaning. If done with great devotion in the face of such difficulties, it represents a 


prayer for understanding and this, in itself, can help us move forward. 


Xo YETRUCCAYTA AA: 


om bhedaspadasvabhavaya namah 


35. His very nature (Svabhava) is to cause disturbance (Bheda) for the home, business and 


government (Aspada). 


This continues the theme of the last name (Saturn 34). Worldliness and all kinds of 
worldly affairs can be undermined by his influence. Saturn in general and Capricorn in partic- 
ular are expert in causing divisions and dissensions in the process of gaining dominance. For 
example, the rich get richer and the poor get poorer. This is a division, which arises due to cal- 


culated actions, even if the poverty generated is not the principle goal. 


That is why Saturn rules the tenth house representing status and power. It is also why 


the spiritual path of Saturn is kindness because the natural tendency is more cold and cruel. If 


to be kind and caring. For this reason, an excellent remedy for Saturn is to serve the poor and 
needy. Service requires more than sending a cheque, though that can be good. It is best to 
give of one’s heart even if those being served are emotionally damaged and do not respond 
as we might wish. Life has a way of mirroring us and that is something to be most grateful for 
despite the challenges it creates. After all, our Self is the most lovable of all things, being one 
with the Self of all. 


Please note the advice at the end of the commentary on the previous mantra (Saturn 
34). 


0 SaACeTa AH: 


om vajradehaya namah 


36. His body (Deha) is unbreakable, like a thunderbolt (Vajra). 


After the last two names one would wonder what could be done to calm this appar- 
ently destructive influence. This name warns us that we cannot fight with him. As this name 
starts with ‘Va’, his great strength is being referred to. Skill and respect is needed in dealing 
with those with a powerful Saturn. While one can be deeply committed to the goals of this 
particular lifetime and find Saturn’s impact as a troubling obstacle, it is good to contemplate 
the truth behind one’s situation. Whatever one creates, will have a very finite existence. One 
leaves this life empty-handed. Saturn is asking one to know the immortal essence of every- 
thing and is wearing away at whatever obstructs that knowing. Those obstructions are only 


on the level of knowledge but emotions and desires can initially hide the inner vision. 


This mantra may help maintain strength against the wearing effect of aging that Saturn 
exemplifies. 


30 SUATy AA: 


om vairagyadaya namah 


37. Giving (Da) dispassion (Vairagya). 


Having seen one’s world being dismantled and finding one’s attempts to prop it up 
failing, dispassion eventually arises. Dispassion starts as disgust but it can lead to true 
discrimination. 


30 NTA AA: 


om viraya namah 


38. Powerful (Vira). 


Power arises from true dispassion. A person who will never harm anyone can be 
trusted with any weapon but it is wise for one not to pick it up as it is hard to carry a weapon 
without eventually using it. A great politician made a sword with half a kilogram of gold. He 
tried to offer it to various temples and saints. They all refused. Eventually a saint advised him 
that only the Goddess Mukambika could bear the karma of this weapon. It is kept in Her 


shrine but is never allowed to touch Her hand. 


30 SAMI AA: 


om vitarogabhayaya namah 


39. Removing (Vita) disease (Roga) and fear (Bhaya). 


After we realize the truth about the world and its basis, all the problems with which we 
were beset are removed. Dis-ease and fear are the core issues. 


30 Tau AH: 
om vipatparamparesaya namah 


40. He represents or rules (/sha) over traditions (Parampara) of suffering (Vipat). That is one 


tragedy after another. 


That is why Saturn is so feared. The principal such tradition is the cycle of birth, death 
and rebirth. To bring that to an end, one must follow his lead and realize the Supreme Being. 
By knowing That, the tradition of suffering comes to an end. Since he rules over suffering, he 


can guide us out of it. 


Tragedies are generally losses. Vipat is letting go. Saturn causes one to let go willingly 
or unwillingly. As one adjusts to this, gradually dispassion develops and the immortal state 


arises. Rather than repeating this name, it is better to contemplate the message in it. 


x0 Tagaqra AA: 


om viSvavandyaya namah 


41. Heis worthy of worship (Vandya) by everyone (Vishva). 


No one wants to suffer so everyone eventually will turn to the that which can bring it to 
an end: The realization of our own Self. The only obstacle is the ego and Saturn grinds away 
at that by his movements. That is why he boosts the ego by giving some worldly benefits in 
only three or four of the 12 astrological houses. The rest of the time he purifies by the fructifi- 
cation of karmic debts, known or more often unknown. Some are frightened by Sade Sati or 
the 7% years of Saturn (Saturn 6) as he passes over the natal Moon. Then he is also feared in 
the fourth and eighth zodiacal signs from the Moon. Indeed, apart from the third, sixth, tenth 
and eleventh places we are told that setbacks and suffering may well result. However, it is the 
Divine Grace that is being shown to us, so we need not fear. After all, paying off debts is good, 
it leads to a beautiful state of peace, Shanta, as mentioned right at the beginning of this set 
of names (Satum 2). 


Debt is shown by the eighth house in the Vedic chart and signified by Saturn. Our 
current society has an interesting attitude to debt. Since the management of the economy has 
been acquired by the bankers and they make money from debt, the whole civilization is based 
on it. The size of the economy depends on how much money is circulating. The banks have 
persuaded most governments to agree that they will not print money, that is reserved for the 
banks. They invent money and loan it out. When someone takes a loan, the economy grows 
and when the debt is paid off, the economy shrinks. That is why debt repayment is only paid 
lip service. 


The majority of the borrowing has been by various levels of government. Since the 
size of the borrowing is essentially the size of the economy, this has provided much of the 
wealth enjoyed by the community without the individuals having to bear direct responsibility. 
This arrangement is even sustainable as long as the borrowing and interest remain within 
certain limits. | mention this because the unspoken truth is that the money borrowed will not 
be repaid, partly because it is not possible but mainly because no one wants the economy to 
shrink. This means that we are collectively programmed on an unconscious level to live with 


debt even though we may dislike debt individually. 


Intemally, debt is the karma of the mind and the body and they exist as long as that 
karma exists. There is no harm in it. Our economy is just a mirror of the nature of life. Sun 1 
showed that there is no debt on the level of the soul. Saturn and the Sun work together to help 


us realize the Self. 


30 Teaers AA: 
om grdhravahaya namah 


42. Flying (Vaha) on a vulture (Grdhra). 


Each planet has an animal as a vehicle and for Shani, that is a vulture. Grdhra also 
means greed. Where greed comes, Saturn surely appears. Saturn is also associated with 


crows. This mantra can help one be more conscious, which helps one be more unselfish. 


Vultures serve a very useful service to the environment. In the ancient epic, the 
Ramayana, the king of the vultures, Jatayu, is a leading hero. He alone fights to save Sita 
when she is kidnapped by the demon king Ravana. Jatayu is the youngest son of Aruna (Sun 
1). His brother, Sampati, was the one who gave the information of where Sita had been taken 
by Ravana, after he had killed Jatayu. He had watched Ravana’s flight due to his extraordinary 
eyesight despite being unable to fly, having sacrificed his wings trying to protect Jatayu dur- 
ing their childhood. 


Ko TTY AA: 


om gudhaya namah 


43. The secret one (Gudha). 


Happiness and suffering are experienced but the real cause is not seen. That is 
because it is our past generosity as well as our errors that have created the present. Whatever 
appears to be the cause now, something else is responsible. 


So Ta 


om kurmangaya namah 


44. Making the eyes close. Literally, having limbs (Anga) like a tortoise (Kurma). 


The tortoise can retract its limbs so they become invisible. In this sense it is similar to 
the previous name (Saturn 43). Kurma also means the Prana or wind in the body that causes 
the eyes to close. It is the influence of Saturn that leads us to close the eyes and meditate. 
Without it, meditation would seem a waste of time. Saturn first brings various sufferings and 
then prompts one to follow a religious or spiritual path inward. In order to turn inward, first one 


has to close the eyes. 


There is another clue here. Kurma is one of the ten Vishnu avatars. In his great text, 
Maharishi Parashara says Kurma is the incarnation of Saturn who is himself an Avatara of the 
Supreme Being. Vishnu appeared as a tortoise to assist the divine beings in extracting the 


nectar of immortality from the ocean of consciousness. Its back provided the solid base for 


the churning. This is metaphorical of the process of evolution of consciousness from the mor- 


tal to the immortal. It cannot be achieved without an unshakeable basis. 


The discipline provided by Saturn is the backbone of the spiritual process. | have 
noticed that many of the spiritual teachers have Saturn rising at the time of birth. People who 


can sit quietly for long periods of time have this or some other strong influence of Saturn. 


so eM AU: 


om kurdpine namah 


45. Ugly. Lowly. Humble (Kurtipin). 


Saturn rules over those things that are ugly, misshapen or damaged. Rup is form and 
Ku is a prefix implying deterioration, deficiency and want. It can imply something that appears 
contemptible. Everything that is has to be represented by one of the Grahas. If Saturn is 
strong, then it does not give this effect. Ku is also the earth. It bears us without complaint and 


thus represents the humble. 


If it were not for Saturn, one could not see others as lesser, as of a lower class or caste. 
The Sun is the brightest object in the sky and Saturn is the furthest visible planet and is thus 
slow and dim to the eye. This gives rise to the social archetypes of the aristocracy or oligarchs 
and the common people. The Cassini probe has shown us what a great and glorious planet 
Saturn is and this gives a clue that one should be able to appreciate the greatness deep in 


those one imagines as lesser than oneself. 


Saturn represents democracy and challenges us to social equality but its dark side can 
facilitate the dictators who crush others for the protection of their own status and pleasures. 
They have chosen to harden their heart for personal gain. There is nothing more ugly than the 
frozen heart. Everything is shown on the face. The harder and colder the look, the more the 
person has given in to a cruel world view. That is why it is difficult for a truly religious person 
to harm anything. Their heart is so open that they feel the suffering of even plants, what to 


speak of animals and people, and constantly seek to alleviate the distress. 


Hence, we should not hide from this mantra. If we contemplate on it, we will eventually 


realize the unreality of ugliness and the beauty in everything. 


30 aa AA: 


om kutsitaya namah 


46. One who serves. 


Kutsita is translated as despised and contemptible but it is also a type of grass. There 
is nothing contemptible about grass but we walk on it. This is the nature of service. Its lowli- 


ness is its nobility. 


Xo TOMTeAa AA: 


om gunadhyaya namah 


47. Abounding in (good) qualities. 


This is the normal meaning of Gunadhya. It could also mean that Saturn’s influence 
gives rise to a multiplicity of effects or consequences or as we say, ‘it does not rain but it 
pours.’ Both meanings are valid. Shani has many positive attributes but neglecting his rules 


leads to consequences that are not easily manageable. 


xo Wats AA: 


om gocaraya namah 


48. Moving through the heavens. 


This emphasizes the importance of the transits (Gochara) of Saturn, when assessing 
an astrological chart. Saturn changes zodiacal signs about every 2% years. This shift can be 
momentous for individuals and communities. 


30 MAMTA AA: 
om avidyamUlanasaya namah 


49. The one who destroys (Nasha) the very root (Mdia) of ignorance (Avidya). 


How often does one come to realize the truth after much suffering due to attachment 
to some misunderstanding or illusion? Some think of Saturn as a bringer of suffering but it is 
more proper to understand that he is enforcing the cosmic law for the sake of destroying the 
root of ignorance. The extent of one’s pain is a measure of one’s resistance to that. One may 
not even be aware of the nature of the rigidities one has created or accepted; but one often 
fights to maintain them even when one starts to see they are of no value and are, indeed, born 


of ignorance. 


so faqraqreaentut 7H: 


om vidyavidyasvardpine namah 


50. Who assumes the form (Svartipin) of both ignorance (Avidya) and wisdom (Vidya). 


Saturn can delude us through his Tamasic influence, which can make one dull and 
caught up in fruitless struggles. On the other hand, the seed of enlightenment is found within 
the same influence. One can close the eyes to fall asleep or to know the Truth. Astrologically, 
in order for the higher wisdom to emerge without long delay, the influence of Sattvic planets, 
especially Jupiter, are needed. The influence of both Saturn and Jupiter give rise to progress. 
The combination, whether conjoined or both influencing strongly in some way, is said to be 


Brahma Yoga, the power of creation. 


So TST AA: 


om ayusyakaranaya namah 


51. The giver (Karana) of long life (Ayusya). 


Saturn, as the slowest moving of the visible planets, is associated with time, longevity 
and old age. Saturn is associated with the eighth house of the Vedic Astrological chart, which 
controls longevity. A strong Saturn helps one live long. Whether it is a long period of joy or 
suffering depends on one’s attunement to the cosmic law. 


x0 MGA AH: 
om apaduddhartre namah 


52. Rescuing (Uddhartr) from trouble (Apacq). 


We may think he is bringing us trouble but he is also there to rescue us. That is why 
there is a value in doing remedial worship of Shani. Some people fast on Saturdays and feed 
black sesame seeds to crows. Service to the poor, elderly and suffering is very good. Yoga 
and meditation are excellent. One can also recite one or more of these mantras. Doing a 
fixed number of repetitions at a fixed time for a fixed number of days is best, as Shani likes 
discipline. However, if our Saturn is afflicted we may have difficulty with discipline. We should 


just try the best we can avoiding laziness or carelessness as much as possible. 
So TOUT AH: 
om visnubhaktaya namah 


53. Devoted (Bhakta) to Lord Vishnu. 


This name indicates that Shani will be pleased by devotion to Vishnu. Vishnu is 


that vast expansion of consciousness that sustains everything merely by its being. Saturn 
represents the most orthodox followers of any religion who wish to maintain their beliefs 
unchanged and want all others to adopt it. They want expansion without change, which is a 


representation of that vastness but reflected in a Saturnine way. 


It is a deep principle of the Vedic wisdom that Shiva worships Vishnu and Vishnu 
worships Shiva, just as both worship the Divine Mother. In the same way, their consorts, who 
are Her forms, worship them. Whatever one worships, one becomes; so whoever one is, one 
naturally look towards one’s highest role model. It works on every level. The One conscious- 
ness apparently divides itself into parts and we say Shiva, Vishnu, Brahma, Devi, Ganesha or 
whatever name we love, but it is still always only the One. The secret is that every aspect is 
eternally devoted to the whole ensuring that the oneness is ever One while sustaining the ex- 


perience of many. 


In a nation or in the world, one may appear to belong to different or even opposing 
camps but as long as the love of commonality is greater than one’s interest in the differences, 
the whole remains healthy and thrives through debate and exchange. When this is forgotten, 


destruction follows. 


May the devotees of every god and religion never forget that they are simply seeing the 
One through a particular coloured glass and that in the realm of God every colour is a pre- 
cious part of the wholeness. 


30 AI FA: 


om vasine namah 


54. Longed for (Vashin). 


That which we desire can also control us. That is why it is best only to long for knowing 
God. If one can find a guide who has nothing to gain from us, then that is something of real 
worth. We are wise to run far away from spiritual teachers who could see us as a material 
profit point. If we want to learn something of this world, then payment is required. That is the 
relationship of the teacher and the student. There is a vast difference between being a student 
and a disciple. To gain God-realization, then both Guru and disciple have to give everything. 
That is why a Guru will never have many real disciples. There cannot be a financial or even an 
emotional relationship between the Guru and a disciple, it is on a completely different level of 


the merger of the heart. This is my humble belief. 


so fafaemtaatad Aq: 


om vividhagamavedine namah 


55. Knowledgeable (Vedin) in various (Vividha) expressions of sacred law (Agama) or manifold 
kinds of traditional knowledge. 


Xo TaTeedcara FH: 


om vidhistutyaya namah 


56. Praised (Stutya) in or through the sacred texts (Vidh/) as well as by his worshippers. 


This name tells us that one way of honouring Shani is by following the traditions, such 
as the precepts of our ancestors and the great religious teachers. 


30 F-QTA AA: 


om vandyaya namah 


57. Worthy of worship (Vandya). 


This is how many shrines arise to Saturn and also how those represented by Saturn 
can hold positions of great esteem. Saturn is associated with Tamas but its presence in 
strength in a Kendra (angular house) can give a position of leadership. An example is former 
UK Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher who had exalted Saturn in the first house. This place- 
ment was triggered when she entered her Rahu Dasha due to their association. She rose 
quickly to the top from being a relative unknown. When the Rahu cycle wound up, she was 
forced to quit (see Rahu 69). 


She was famous as ‘the iron lady’. Iron is signified by Saturn. Due to its exaltation in 
Venus’ sign of Libra, she was always dressed and made up well. She was followed as Prime 
Minister of England by John Major. He also has Saturn in the first house, but not exalted. He 
was Called ‘the grey man’. Grey is a colour of a weaker Saturn. 


30 TaRaTeTa Aq: 


om virupaksaya namah 


58. With unusual sight. 


Virtjpaksha is a well-known name for Lord Shiva who is worshipped to relieve the dis- 
tress we think Saturn is causing us. While the name can mean one with strange or deformed 
eyes, it points to the open third eye giving divine vision. This name can help us have truer 


insight. This name also appears as Mars 40 showing both the wind of Saturn and the fire of 
Mars can help develop this capacity. For example, Pranayama refines the breath and medita- 


tion awakens the inner light. 


so ARB AA: 


om varisthaya namah 


59. The greatest. 


Varistha is also a name for Jupiter (23), indicating how both Grahas can stand for 


persons and things of pre-eminent status. 


30 TRBTA AA: 


om garisthaya namah 


60. The heaviest or the most important. 


Heavy here means weighty or significant. Garistha can also mean the most venerable 
and even the worst. This is the range of signification of Shani. 


As the slowest moving Graha, Shani has to represent things of the greatest substance 
like the elephant amongst the beasts. In Vedic Astrology, perhaps the most fundamental part 
of the knowledge is what people and things are associated with each Graha and for what 


reason. 


Saturn represents elephants because they are the largest animal humans have com- 
mon contact with. Jupiter represents elephants in the sense of the wealth that they indicate 
traditionally. Venus does because kings used to ride on elephants so they were the Rolls 


Royces of that time. Venus represents classy and expensive vehicles. 


30 SATS AA: 


om vajrankusacharaya namah 


61. Garrying (Dhara) the thunderbolt (Vajra) and goad (Ankusha). 


These are his weapons. The Vajra was a weapon like a discus or in the form of an X 
which was very hard and powerful. Vajra could also indicate any weapon considered destruc- 
tive of spells and charms. It has an invincible and purifying quality and falls suddenly and 


irresistibly. 


The Ankusha is a hook usually used by elephant drivers or Mahuts. From a spiritual 


perspective, this indicates the power to control the senses. Thus these weapons remove the 


subtle and gross obstacles to self-knowledge and stabilize the mind. 


30 ATTA EM AA: 
om varadabhayahastaya namah 


62. His other hands (Hasta) are showing that he is granting boons (Varada) and dispelling fear 
(Abhaya). 


Saturn is often termed as a ‘malefic’ but he is there to help us to be real and to live 
a life in accord with natural law. This gives satisfaction and freedom from fear in this life and 
beyond. Some pandits hold that Saturn is the greatest giver amongst the Grahas. | am writ- 


ing this with Saturn exactly transiting my Ascendant. It surely has been a blessing. 


30 STAATY AG: 


om vamanaya namah 


63. The Lord disguised as a dwarf. 


Vamana is an incarnation of Lord Vishnu. He blessed his devotee Bali while depriving 
him of his universal lordship and restoring the cosmic order. The word Vamana can apply to 
all things small or even minute as well. It can also mean misshapen or even indicate distorted 
behaviour such as cruelty. Such is the vast range of signification of Saturn. The glory of this 
name is that it advises us to see the divinity in everything that seems misshapen or otherwise 
diminished. Let us suppose that there is something about ourselves that we do not like. 
Something we feel ashamed of or due to which we feel diminished. Let us hold that aspect of 
ourselves, like a child, and gently repeat this mantra remembering that the unbounded great- 


ness of Divinity is latent within it. 


That which humbles us may seem most cruel at the time but humility is worth much 
more than ruling the universe. Bali was a great devotee but he was also the king of the 
demons. He overcame the gods and ruled the heavens and the earth. His Guru was Shukra. 
The gods appealed to Lord Vishnu who, knowing Bali’s unwavering generosity, appeared in 
the form of a Brahmin dwarf and asked for the land he could cover in three paces. Shukra saw 
through the trick and warned the king not to grant the wish. He foresaw exactly what would 
happen and said to the king, “This is Vishnu, he will cover the heavens with one pace, the 
earth with another and how will you grant him the third?” The king said he could not deny a 
Brahmin any gift asked for and he was not concerned with losing his kingdom. Shukra then 


cursed him to fall from his status for disregarding the advice of his Guru. The king granted the 


boon and when Shukra’s prophecy was fulfilled he offered his head for the third step. Even 
though he was forced into the lower realms by the pressure of the foot of the Lord he felt 
supremely blessed by that touch. In due time, the Lord gave him high sovereignty through a 
divine birth. 


Things are never what they appear to be especially in moments of great import and 
in the presence of exalted souls. Shukra, Venus, was right but he also was giving the advice 
from the worldly perspective — ‘save your power and your wealth’ implying that those are 
more important than nobility and generosity. Bali’s mind was purified by his devotion. This 
purity had attracted the object of his love. He was only capable of pure and noble acts and 
was not capable of the worldly evaluation urged by Venus. One should obey one’s Guru but 
the cost of disobedience in this case was only a worldly one. Neither the stick nor the carrot 


could sway Bali. 


Only those who are prepared, if necessary, to forgo everything that they have acquired 
through much labour and hardship in order to attain their next goal, attain that goal. The 
universe is constructed in such a way as to keep us on whatever level we are at by endless 
fascination and diversions. If these fail, then the next strategy to stop us moving towards 
God is fear and confusion. If that fails then we are offered delights of an increasingly unusual 
character, such as we could never obtain normally. If we accept, all progress ceases. Slavery 
returns. 


Xo SUBTAITAAT AA: 


om jyesthapatnisametaya namah 


64. United (Sameta) with his wife (Patni) Jyestha. 


Use this name to meditate on Shani with his consort Jyestha. Jyestha means the eldest 
and can indicate a chief. Jyestha, the feminine form, is sometimes thought of as the sister of 


Lakshmi who is like an old crone or the Goddess of poverty. 


Jyestha and its feminine Jyestha are thus quite mysterious. When Saturn is strong, it 
indicates his association with leadership as well as an orthodox view of marriage where the 
person sticks faithfully to the first spouse. If Saturn is afflicted, the indication is of poverty and 


a lack of marital satisfaction. 


The Nakshatra or lunar mansion of Jyestha calls us to make heroic efforts to rise above 
difficult obstacles. It comes at the end of Scorpio, which is the tenth sign from Saturn’s 


strongest sign, Aquarius. It therefore indicates the work and status that Saturn brings. 


30 SET AH: 


om Sresthaya namah 


65. The most senior and excellent one (Shrestha). 


This uplifting name shows how a strong Saturn can give leadership, splendour and 


beauty. 


So THs AH: 


om mitabhasine namah 


66. One who speaks (Bhdsin) little (Vita). 


Little means only as necessary. Those ruled by Saturn cannot indulge in much idle talk. 
They speak only when it is necessary to do so. Hence in places ruled by Saturn, such as 
monasteries, convents, churches and temples, we tend to keep silent and may observe a vow 
of silence. When meditating, the goal is to silence the inner voice of the mind so we can be 
still or hear more clearly the divine voice. Saints are often silent or if they speak, every word is 
full of significance. 


30 HPTAAIHTA AA: 


om kastaughanasakartre namah 


67. Gausing the destruction (Nasha Kartr) of a stream of evils (Kasfaugha). 


Once again we get the clue that troubles do not come in ones, they come in a flood and 
he may cause this but can also save us from this. One implication is that one should not give 


up but work hard to get over one’s difficulties as this is Saturn’s way. 


30 Opera FH: 
om pustidaya namah 
68. Nourishing and causing (Da) prosperity (Pustida). 


The stemming of the tide of evils releases nourishment. This mantra is also given as om 


aryapustidaya namah, which means nourishing the (noble) people. 


What we see as evil is usually circumstances that cut off sources of nourishment, not 


just food but all kinds of resources, physical and emotional. A very strong influence of Saturn, 


especially on the Moon, can make us unconcerned about such things. That is how some 
people can walk out of their home renouncing everything. Hence Saturn is associated with 
renunciates. However, this name shows how he can also provide for us. In fact, it is this faith 
and the truth it embodies that sustains the renunciate. In the case of leaders who acquired 
their power through Saturn, he provides all kinds of nourishment. Even these people can have 
a kind of carelessness about sources of nourishment, often working long hours and neglect- 


ing food, water and emotional sustenance. One should take care. 


However, this is on the more mundane level. This series of names is unfolding a very 
high reality where subtle sources of nourishment are provided to the awakening conscious- 


ness as the next name shows. 


30 Teal AA: 


om stutyaya namah 


69. Praiseworthy and praised (Stutya). 


That which ultimately nourishes are the Vedic hymns and all the mantras and verses of 
all religions. 


Xo TaHATIFaTa AA: 
om stotragamyaya namah 


70. Attained (Gamya) by [the reciting of] the hymns of praise (Stotra). 


Not only are the hymns nourishing but they are all we need to satisfy Shani and be 
completely freed from suffering. That is why the principle remedy for ignorance is the use 
of mantras and all religions have their practices. Many Muslims, | understand, recite the 99 
names of Allah at every prayer time and Christians repeat short prayers while counting on a 


rosary. 


This practice is not confined to Catholics. | was brought up as an Anglican and was 
also given this advice. It is true that as one moves away in time from the founder of a religion, 
key practices may be lost. The early church had a particular prayer (mantra) that was whis- 


pered to each priest when he was consecrated. For more, see Mercury 102. 


It is interesting that the Gospel of Thomas describes Jesus whispering in the ear of his 
disciples and the profound effect this had. However, in that text it is stated that Jesus did not 
pass this knowledge on. The prayer referred to above is in Latin. Perhaps it was developed by 


the early disciples based on the guidance they were given rather than the exact blessing they 


personally received. 


30 VPHASATA AA: 


om bhaktivasyaya namah 


71. Attracted (Vashya) by devotion (Bhakti). 


His attention and blessings come to those who have the true spirit of devotion. 
Devotion is marked by humility and clarity of focus on that which is above the ordinary worldly 
things. A devotee does his duty in this world but knows where the real value lies. Those who 
are fascinated by a sense of their own greatness have forgotten what it really is in each and 
every being that is supremely great. They have forgotten that greatness has nothing to do with 
any individuality. It is the essence of all things. That is why true humility is what marks a devo- 
tee, a Mahatma or great soul. 


0 Yet AH: 


om bhanave namah 


72. The shining one. 


Bhanu is a name for the Sun, the father of Saturn. Astrologers would not normally think 
of Saturn as shining, but it does and when it functions through us we can also shine. This se- 
quence of names shows how the aspirant rises higher and higher. 


x0 MATA AA: 


om bhanuputraya namah 


73. The son (Putra) of the Sun (Bhanu). 


The Sun's wife is called Prajhia (amongst other names) meaning the light of intelligence 
or consciousness. Her shadow, Chhaya, also bore two children through deceit, one of them 
was Shani (see also Saturn 22). So Saturn is born of the Sun or the Self but through its 
relationship with the shadow. Shani’s younger half-brother is Yama, the ruler of the under- 
world and determiner of our karmic rewards. 


Yama rules the second Nakshatra, Bharani, which is where Saturn is debilitated. Ini- 
tially, Yama was elevated by his father leaving Shani feeling helpless and angry. Yama means 
control in the sense of natural discipline and when Saturn is weak, then maintaining order in 


life becomes harder. That is why one has to appeal to Yama to overcome the negatives of 


Shani. A strong influence of Shani can give a propensity for the disciplines known as ‘Yamas’ 
and certainly they greatly benefit the native. The usual list has five components: non-violence, 
truthfulness, non-stealing, celibacy or fidelity and non-greediness. It is said that Saturn ‘waits 
for the first lie’. The lazy side of Saturn can lead one to be untruthful, unkind, etc. triggering 


many consequences. It is very wise not to start down that path, whatever the apparent cost. 


30 Youyy AU: 


om bhavyaya namah 


74. Righteous (Bhavya). 


Bhavya has many meanings. It means existence and that which is about to come into 
being. It suggests that which is fit, proper, excellent, favourable and auspicious. When strong, 
Saturn is all these things. However, whatever Saturn’s strength he always looks for us to fol- 


low his rules as we discussed under name 73. 


30 UTAATY AH: 
om pavanaya namah 


75. The purifier. 


Pavana is another name that reminds us of the purpose of those experiences that 
come due to Saturn’s placement or transit in our chart. They may be difficult but we emerge 


purified if we are not embittered. 


so eqAStateay AH: 


om dhanurmandalasamsthaya namah 


76. Stationed (Samstha) on the symbol of a bow. 


Each Graha has a Mandala or symbol, and Shani’s is a bow (Dhanu). Sometimes, it is 
also a head while Mercury has a bow and arrow. These are used in making up Yantras or sa- 


cred diagrams for Puja. 


A bow is something that is bent. As the marker of old age and diseases like arthritis, 
Saturn is what bends us down. It is the great humbler. The root Dhan means ‘to cause to’. 
Saturn is the prime causative force of our heaviest experiences. A bow implies an arrow which 
can be said to be symbolic of going straight to the point or inflicting sharp pains as in the 


carrying of the Shula (see Mars 77 and Rahu 24). It may hurt but Saturn can help us by sev- 


ering the bondage which constricts us. 


30 ACTA AH: 
om dhanadaya namah 


77. Giving (Da) wealth. 


Dhana means that which is dear to us. He gives it to us when he is pleased with the 
sacrifice of our egotistical tendencies. Saturn makes us work hard and persistently, which is 
how most things are attained. Indeed, a weak Saturn makes it difficult to work steadily and 
that makes it hard to get anywhere in life. One may get the urge to give up before the job is 


done or the course is finished, a tendency to be overcome with mental effort and prayer. 


This name is sandwiched between two that refer to the word Dhanur. This name has 
the word Dhana so one might ask whether there is any connection. Both derive from the 
root ‘Dhan’, to cause to run or move quickly. Dhanur is that which causes something, the 
arrow, to run quickly and Dhana is the prize that one gets for running, as in winning a race or 
conquering wealth through one’s efforts or arms. From this comes the sense of bearing fruit. 
Thus we can deduce that the wealth and benefits that Shani gives are a result of our efforts 
and our accuracy — efficiency and effectiveness in doing what we are doing. Shani should 
not be expected to give wealth for no effort or just casual effort. Some service has to be 
provided and the best wealth comes in return for real service. If we do something that makes 
others grateful, then the wealth they give us will stay with us and nourish us. It comes with a 


blessing. 


Other types of wealth evaporate fast. Bad money is very poisonous. It comes with the 
pain of those who suffered as a result of the making of it. The ancient laws say that if money 
is 10% bad, 10% must be given away; if 50% bad, 50% should be donated; if it comes from 
criminal, poisonous or highly exploitative activities, do not keep a penny. It can seriously dam- 


age one and more especially one’s family. 


so aoa AA: 


om dhanusmate namah 


78. Bent (Ohanusman),. 


Literally possessing a bow or that which is bent. Saturn’s influence can produce a 
physical stoop or a mental sense of burden or inadequacy. The bending and stretching of 
Yoga Asanas are very helpful as we get older and Shani’s influence is more intense. There is 


a famous saying that, in the face of a powerful wind, small trees break, great trees bend. 


Xo TAWHINCETA AA: 


om tanuprakasadehaya namah 


79. his body has a subtle radiance. 


Literally, having a thin (Tanu) shining (Prakasha) body (Deha). Shani being the most 
distant of the visible planets has a ‘finer’ light. Austerities, such as meditation, which Shani 
signifies, refine the aura and make it luminous. That luminosity is very fine or very extended, 
another meaning derived from the root ‘Tan’. The aura expands. The word Tantra can mean 
liberation (Tra) that comes through vast expansion or stretching (Tan). Tantra is never purely a 
function of Venus. Saturn is the main player along with Ketu but the Bhakti (devotion) Venus 


gives is essential. 


30 TATA AH: 
om tamasaya namah 


80. Dark coloured (Tamasa). 


Tamas is the third of the three gunas or qualities of nature: Sattva or purity, Rajas or 
activity, and Tamas or inertia or dullness. Each planet is assigned to one of these. Saturn, 
Mars, Rahu and Ketu are said to be Tamas. Inattention, carelessness and the like are the 
result of Tamas. Under the influence of Tamas we can make poor decisions, give inadequate 
advice, and so forth. Planets are deeply influenced by the sign in which they are placed. If 
Saturn is in a sign owned by a Sattvic planet (Jupiter, the Sun and the Moon) then it is much 


less associated with Tamas. Of course, we must weigh all the other influences as well. 


It is said, the good die young. One reason for this could be, and I have seen a few such 
cases, that the soul lives through the periods of the Sattvic planets and is simply too good to 
continue when these end. In other words, had the person lived, his or her reputation would 


have declined and that was not their destiny. 


There are many things in the universe that are naturally Tamas and have to be repre- 
sented by a planet. This is no degradation of that planet’s divine nature. Lord Shiva is famous 
for living almost naked, covered in ash, on the cremation grounds but he is ever in exalted 
wakeful consciousness. Lord Vishnu is covered in silks and jewels but is sleeping (as Lord 
Narayana, the basis of the universe). Shiva is said to be Tamas on the outside and Sattva on 
the inside. Lord Vishnu is said to be Sattva on the outside and Tamas on the inside. These are 
not judgments, just ways of teaching so people understand everything has its place. Without 


sleep (Tamas for the body), wakefulness (Rajas and Sattva) could not be sustained. 


Mercury (money and intellect) and Venus (passion) are associated with Rajas. 


0 IPT AA: 


om asesajanavandyaya namah 


81. Fit to be worshipped (Vandya) by all the people (Jana) or by the people who are of 


untainted consciousness and conscience. 


Ashesa Jana can mean all the people or the perfected ones. Both are true but the 
nature of the worship is quite different. The perfected ones have no anxiety, no guilt. Guilt is 
the memory of a mistake. The ancient law book, the Manu Smriti, says that if one feels guilty, 
one should do some penance until the feeling goes away. | once was sitting on a railway 
platform. Across from me was a couple with their teenage son in between them. He was 
trying to bite himself and they were trying to restrain him. This made me realize that one can 
be born with a heavy sense of guilt but in a loving family. One feels one should be punished 
but no one punishes you so one starts to punish oneself. How else are we to explain such 
cases? Obviously, the parents were doing the right thing but for those of us who carry much 
lesser loads, some deliberate inconvenience can be undertaken. For example, one can fast 
every Saturday (for those who can do so safely). It is the genius of Manu that gave us this 
wonderful formula including how to know when to stop. If one feels no sense of guilt, then 
there is no need to fast. Whatever one takes on, it should be proportionate and not damaging 
to health or survival. Even if the load feels great, it is better to keep the inconvenience limited 


and manageable. 


The soul cannot be polluted but the mind can harbour painful memories. If one 
commits a crime and then honestly admits to it, already most of the taint has gone. After such 
admission and passing through whatever punishment is given by society or one’s spiritual 
mentor, one becomes free. There is a wonderful movie about a boxer who was jailed on 
entirely false charges (see The Hurricane). From a young age, he was sent to institutions for 
no real fault of his own. He was full of hate and this made him fight hard and become a cham- 
pion. It’s a true story and in the movie we see how, after many years in jail and rejection of all 
his appeals by an apparently corrupt or racist State system, he had an epiphany and lost his 
hate. He became very sweet. At this point his case was brought before a Federal judge who 
released him. After the movie, there was an interview with the actual person and he was an 
even more shining example of goodness than his portrayal in the film. Outer freedom quickly 


followed inner freedom. Divine justice manages everything. 


Xo Tastitpcaatad Aa: 


om viSesaphaladayine namah 


82. Giving excellent results. 


Those fruits (Pha/a) have a peculiar (Vishesa) merit. Once one knows the Real, the Self, 
then something very special comes about that no ordinary ego could possibly accomplish. It 


may be very quiet or very visible but it is in no way ordinary. 


Xo Spas same AA: 


om vasikrtajanesaya namah 


83. The greatest (/sha) amongst those (Jana) who bring people under his control (Vashi Krt). 


In the great epic, the Ramayana, we find the story of the demon king Ravana who 
had become the overlord of everything in creation. He had even subjugated the nine Vedic 
planets, it is said, and made them lie down on the steps of his throne facing down so he would 


walk over them when ascending. 


There are two illuminating stories here. In one, when Ravana’s son was to be born, he 
ordered all the planets to assemble in the eleventh house. It is said that if all the Grahas are 
in the eleventh house, the person born will be invincible. However, at the moment of the birth 
Ravana was distracted and Saturn put one foot into the twelfth house. This ensured that, even 
though his son would be great, he would eventually be defeated. It is said that Ravana retali- 
ated by cutting off Saturn’s foot making him lame and hence slow moving. 


In the other story, the great celestial sage Narada, who wanders around the universe 
stirring things up, came to visit Ravana. Seeing the Grahas lying face down before the throne 
he started to pump Ravana’s sense of self-importance. “It is all very well having them facing 
down like this, but imagine the pleasure you would have standing on their faces!” Ravana got 
deluded by his words and turned Shani over. The moment Saturn’s gaze fell on him, bad luck 
gripped him and everything started to unravel as Narada intended. Such is the fruit of being 


too full of ourselves. 


xo UNA Ue A: 
om pasiinam pataye namah 
84. PashuPati, the lord (Pati) of those in ignorance (Pashtinam). 


Pashu means a fettered animal, so those who are led by their animal nature are said 


to be Pashu. We could also say that our senses and the body are Pashu and the witness of 


them, the higher consciousness (Shiva), is the lord of them. PashuPati literally means ‘the lord 


of the fettered animals’, and is a famous name of Lord Shiva. 


This could also refer to one who owns and therefore keeps under control many animals 
indicating wealth. Wealth can be measured by how much energy one controls. This was 
measured in people, slaves and servants, as well as beasts of burden who gave their energy 
for the comfort and projects of their master. Now the wealthy have big limousines, private 
jets and yachts. They still have multiple servants for those tasks that require more intelligence 
than a machine can provide. If Saturn associates with the indicators of wealth in one’s Vedic 


chart, one may have many helpers or employees. 


As long as one is a Pashu, Satum is one’s lord and the tradition of bondage continues. 
If one knows the immortal unchanging field of consciousness, then one is no longer a Pashu. 
It all depends on how deep that knowledge is. Mere glimpses only reduce the suffering. As 


long as the body is there, some trace of the Pashu remains. 


xo GAT AA: 
om khecaraya namah 
85. Moving (Chara) through space (Khe). 


Saturn moves through the heavens and it indicates Vayu, who is the very principle of 
movement. 


xo TNA AH: 
om khagesaya namah 
86. The lord (/sha) of those who move (Ga) through space. 


Kha is a cavity or space, which can be taken as outer space or inner space. Khaga is a 
clear reference to the planets. Saturn is their lord because he is the leader in determining and 


delivering karmic consequences. 


30 UAleraTUT AH: 


om ghananilambaraya namah 


87. Whose clothes (Ambara) are a deep blue. 


Ghana Nila indicates a very intense blue or dark colour. When looking for a blue 


sapphire as a gem to strengthen Saturn, we might bear this in mind. The great physicist, 


Stephen Hawking, showed that black holes, the most powerful and incomprehensible things 
in the universe, are not black but actually a little blue. That is, they do radiate a little. They 
are usually surrounded by intense radiation but that comes from the matter outside of the 
hole. Even that radiates at very high energies far beyond ultra-violet (extreme blue). This name 


could also mean a deep or dark blue sky, like one that threatens a great storm. 


30 MHilo-aaTAaa AA: 


om kathinyamanasaya namah 


88. Of stern (Kathinya) mind (Manasa). 


This also indicates one of firm character which can include a mental rigidity or stiffness 


or even one who thinks in an obscure way. 


Rather than repeating this name, it is better to contemplate the message in it. 


30 STOTT AA: 
om aryaganastutyaya namah 


89. Praised (Stutya) by the noble people. 


The Arya are the noble or civilized people. Gana is a collection or community. It has 
been suggested that this word indicates the citizenry of an agrarian community as opposed 
to hunter gatherers. Whatever the original meaning, we can say that Shani gets the populist 
vote. It represents democracy, while the Sun, Moon and Mars are royalists. Royalty can also 


mean small rulers like a larger landowner or the owner of a corporation. 


We can easily see how political parties down the ages have represented more or less 
one camp or the other. If Saturn’s party rises, we are afraid of Tamas taking over; if one of 
the others rises, we fear the cruelty of Rajas. The Sattvic people mind their own business but 
create a very soothing air. If destiny takes a good turn, then we get a Rajasic leader who has 
a Sattvic advisor. It is certainly true that all things big and small are in the hands of Cosmic 
Intelligence and Cosmic Intelligence is perfectly just. It also protects the humble of heart as 


we see repeatedly in these names. 


30 Selosasd Aa: 


om nilacchatraya namah 


90. Having a dark blue (Nia) umbrella (Chhatra). 


In the ancient days, an umbrella was a sign of royalty. It was typically made of silk and 
encrusted with jewels. It was not to protect from the rain. Shani’s colour is a dark blue and 


being a great lord, he has a royal umbrella. Nila can extend to black or dark-green. 


0 FAC AH: 


om nityaya namah 


91. Eternal (Nitya). 


This is the second appearance of this name (Saturn 28). The repetition indicates both 
an emphasis and another important meaning. In 28 we mentioned the sense of obligatory 
duties. Here, we could take it as indicating the constant dwelling on the Highest. This is the 
real meaning of devotion. Devotion is not fickle. Sometimes Saturn is associated with the 
heart Chakra where the wind or Vayu element resides. Saturn rules over wind but in the heart, 


apart from constant beating to keep us alive, it also represents steadfastness of devotion. 


so Fata AH: 


om nirgunaya namah 


92. Beyond or free (Nin from the taint of the qualities (Guna) of the world. 


This is the nature of pure consciousness. Something with qualities can be described. 
Really nothing can be said of that which has no qualities or is the sum of all qualities. Quan- 
tum theory sees the Unified field, the source of everything, as the sum total of all possibilities. 
We can only say that it is without qualities and That is what you and | really are. Not Mr Y or 


Ms X, but the qualityless, nameless and eternally free Self. 


0 TTC AH: 


om gunatmane namah 


93. His soul (Atma) is possessed of all the (good) qualities (Guna). 


What makes a person possessed of good qualities? The purity of his or her conscious- 
ness. If the inner being is free of anger, greed, etc. then the behaviour in the world is good. 
This name has to follow the previous as one is based on the other. If we want to have good 
and noble qualities, first we must know our Self, which is free of all qualities. Then we cease 
to be addicted to this or that quality or concept and rest internally in peace. From that, nobil- 


ity and all goodness naturally arise. 


30 FRUAST AA: 


om niramayaya namah 


94. Free (Nir) from disease or hurt. 


Ama (pronounced ‘aama’) is toxicity in the body and Amaya is what comes from it. The 
Ayurvedic system of Panchakarma is designed to clear the Ama from the body. It is a form of 
austerity as one has to bear with a restricted diet and other measures. However, the results 
are wondertul if done in a thorough way. Many clinics now offer individual components of the 
treatment, which are good but not as profound as a complete holistic treatment. This requires 


at least five and preferably more days of attendance, while taking complete rest. 


30 Aq AH: 
om nandyaya namah 
95. Deserving of appreciation, happiness and satisfaction (Nandya). 


This is the result of complete peace of mind and heart, true bliss. If one attains Pure 
Consciousness in meditation or at any time, then one can be truly joyful. If Panchakarma (see 
Saturn 94) is done thoroughly and one takes proper rest afterwards there should be a sense 
of deep satisfaction. 


30 FCAT AH: 


om vandaniyaya namah 


96. Worthy of respect (Vandaniya). 


Even adorable in the sense of how the public adores a great leader or followers appre- 


ciate a leader who looks after their interest with care and concern. 


xo Oa AA: 
om dhiraya namah 
97. That which lasts long (Dhira). 


Saturn’s cycle (Dasha) lasts for 19 years. Since every moment is under his discipline 
even his shorter subcycles or transits can seem very long. He also represents old and durable 


things. 


ao Teoqeery AA: 


om divyadehaya namah 


98. Having a divine body (Divya Deha). 


Saturn rules over coarse and unrefined things and can make us wear torn and old 
clothes but, in dignity, he can make us very refined. Saturn gets dignity by being strong and 


well placed in the Vedic chart. 


xo EParate Wa AA: 
om dinartiharanaya namah 


99. Removing (Harana) misery, scarcity (Dina) and pain (Arti). 


This could be a good mantra for those who feel they are suffering under the influence 
of Shani. 


Xo SHUNT AA: 
om dainyanasakaraya namah 


100. The one who completely destroys (NaSakara) poverty, depression and misery (Dainya). 


Saturn can relieve the sense of poverty in various ways. When strong, wealth often 
accumulates. When it delivers tough experiences it encourages the rise of dispassion, which 


is most profound in a completely tranquil heart. Such a heart knows no poverty. 


Poverty comes from scarcity. From a mundane point of view, we see the socialist 
tendency, which, when genuinely applied, largely removes the worst of poverty. The sharing 
of wealth has been a theme of all successful societies. In the ancient days, from time to time, 
the kings would distribute all the wealth in the treasury. This gave a huge boost to the econ- 
omy and soon the treasury recovered. Some Roman emperors gave one gold coin to every 


soldier. As the soldiers were stationed everywhere in the Empire, this had the same effect. 


If wealth is recycled, then everyone prospers. The current decline in the standard of 
living of the bulk of the people could well be due to wealthy companies and individuals retain- 
ing their wealth and not spending it. Investing it in job creation projects is excellent but certain 
other types of investment extract even more money from the collective pool, which further 
hampers the popular economy. The lobbying of politicians by their sponsors to reduce taxes 


on the wealthy leads to even less recycling. It is fortunate that some billionaires are working 


to distribute their wealth productively by backing many worthwhile causes. 


A negative characteristic of Saturn is meanness. This mantra can act as an antidote. 


Xo HASTA AA: 
om aryajanaganyaya namah 


101. Indicating the gathering (Ganya) of noble people (Arya Jana). 


We saw that such people praise him (see Shani 88). Here we learn that he represents 
the people themselves, especially as they group together. This gives the sense of a parliament 


and emphasizes the connection with democracy. 


So HUA AH: 
om kriraya namah 


102. Cruel (Krdra). 


We talk of ‘cruel fate’. Everything is as it should be but from our limited perspective it 
often seems cruel. Those who have Saturn in the first house of their chart may feel a tendency 
to be stern or even cruel or may be thought of as such by others. This is modified by the sign 
of the Ascendant and other planets involved. 


The path of Saturn is two-fold. Firstly, one must take care to be kind and not give 
sorrow to others. Secondly, one must rise above sorrow oneself. Meditation helps greatly with 
both. This is important advice for those who have Shani as their AtmaKaraka® or in some 
way strong in the chart. We should not forget the human tendency to be blind to our own 


deficiencies. 


Rather than repeating this name, it is better to contemplate the message in it. 


Xo HTARTA AH: 
om kruracestaya namah 


103. Whose movements (Chesta) are cruel or formidable (Krura). 


The sense of this is that he advances in an unalterable way without any regard for the 
feelings of those affected. The transits of Saturn can feel like this. Acceptance is the antidote 


to any suffering. 


Rather than repeating this name, it is better to contemplate the message in it. 


30 HAH eaHUa AA: 
om kamakrodhakaraya namah 
104. Causing (Kara) desire (Kama) and anger (Krodha). 


In the Bhagavad Gita (3:37, 2:62-63), Lord Krishna says “Desire and anger are the 
enemies in this world.” “Through desire comes anger and through anger our clarity of mind 
is lost and through this our very life breath can be destroyed.” It is well known that if you can 
make a person angry, they are likely to destroy themselves. Calm-headed people are good 
leaders. 


Rather than repeating this name, it is better to contemplate the message in it. 


0 HAATAMTA ADOT AA: 
om kalatraputrasatrutvakaranaya namah 
105. Causing (Karana) enmity (Shatrutva) with spouse (Kalatra) and children (Putra). 


This is what comes of Kama and Krodha. They are the source of all conflicts. When 
Saturn transits the seventh house of marriage, the sign opposite the Ascendant, there is a risk 
of separation in our relationship. We should try to avoid issues related to inappropriate desire 
and anger. The difficulty will pass with the transit. Of course, separation can also be caused 
by other transits, placements and combinations. 


Rather than repeating this name, it is better to contemplate the message in it. 


Xo URNA HTA AA: 


om paripositabhaktaya namah 


106. Fully nourishing (Pariposita) the devotees(Bhakta). 


He is constantly caring for them. After telling us about his cruelty, we are assured that 
if we follow the true path, quite the opposite will befall us. 


So OMe AA: 


om parabhitiharaya namah 


107. Destroying (Hara) the fear (Bhit/) of others (Para). 


Once we know that our Self is the Self of all, then the question of fear of any other does 
not arise. There is simply no other to fear. It is said, ‘Dwitiyad bhayam bhavati’, which means 
that fear arises from the sense of duality or difference. That sense has to be removed at its 
root to be free from fear. Knowing the essential oneness does not remove the experience of 
difference. Only the oneness is seen as predominant or ‘real’ while the diversity is secondary 


or ‘unreal’. 


Philosophers dispute about reality and unreality, but the predominance of Oneness is 
what anyone who comes to that level of experience plainly knows. The different philosophies 
either come from different levels of experience or it is just semantics. The ‘unreal’ is still real 


within its sphere; it is said to be unreal because its sphere is seen as secondary. 


Xo VPAAAAN ANP HAC AH: 
om bhaktasamghamanobhistaphaladaya namah 
108. Granting (Da) the objects (Pha/a) of the desires in the minds (Manobhista) of the whole 


company of devotees (Bhakta Samgha). 


This name reminds us that Saturn represents the collective. If society follows the path 
of goodness and nobility then he ensures everyone enjoys the fulfilment of all their desires. 
Heaven really can be found on Earth. 


Om tat sat 


OWN DOF WN = 


13 


18 


THE MANTRAS OF SHANI IN T RANSLITERATION 


. om Sanaiscaraya namah 

.om santaya namah 

. om sarvabhistapradayine namah 
. om Saranyaya namah 

. om varenyaya namah 

.om sarvesaya namah 

.om saumyaya namah 

.om suravandyaya namah 

. om suralokaviharine namah 

10. 
44% 
12. 


om sukhasanopavistaya namah 
om sundaraya namah 


om ghanaya namah 


.om ghanarupaya namah 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 


om ghanabharanadharine namah 
om ghanasaravilepaya namah 
om khadyotaya namah 

om mandaya namah 


.om mandacestaya namah 
19. 
20. 
21, 
22. 
29% 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
3) 
32. 
ao: 
34. 
35. 


om mahaniyagunatmane namah 
om martyapavanapadaya namah 
om mahesaya namah 

om chayaputraya namah 

om Sarvaya namah 

om Satatiniradharine namah 

om carasthirasvabhavaya namah 
om acaficalaya namah 

om nilavarnaya namah 

om nityaya namah 

om nilanhjananibhaya namah 

om nilambaravibhusaya namah 
om niscalaya namah 

om vedyaya namah 

om vidhirupaya namah 

om virodhadharabhimaye namah 
om bhedaspadasvabhavaya namah 


36. 
37. 
38. 
39. 
40. 
41. 
42. 
43. 
44. 
45. 
46. 
47. 
48. 
49. 
50. 
51. 
52. 
53. 
54. 
55. 
56. 
57. 
58. 
59. 
60. 
61. 
62. 
63. 
64. 
65. 
66. 
67. 
68. 
69. 
70. 
71. 
72. 
73. 


om vajradehaya namah 

om vairagyadaya namah 

om viraya namah 

om vitarogabhayaya namah 

om vipatparamparesaya namah 
om viSvavandyaya namah 

om grdhravahaya namah 

om guidhaya namah 

om kurmangaya namah 

om kurtipine namah 

om kutsitaya namah 

om gunadhyaya namah 

om gocaraya namah 

om avidyamilanasaya namah 
om vidyavidyasvarupine namah 
om ayusyakaranaya namah 

om apaduddhartre namah 

om visnubhaktaya namah 

om vasine namah 

om vividhagamavedine namah 
om vidhistutyaya namah 

om vandyaya namah 

om virupaksaya namah 

om varisthaya namah 

om garisthaya namah 

om vajrankusadharaya namah 
om varadabhayahastaya namah 
om vamanaya namah 

om jyesthapatnisametaya namah 
om Sresthaya namah 

om mitabhasine namah 

om kastaughanasakartre namah 
om pustidaya namah 

om stutyaya namah 

om stotragamyaya namah 

om bhaktivasyaya namah 

om bhanave namah 


om bhanuputraya namah 


74. om bhavyaya namah 

75. om pavanaya namah 

76. om dhanurmandalasamsthaya namah 

77. om dhanadaya namah 

78. om dhanusmate namah 

79. om tanuprakasadehaya namah 

80. om tamasaya namah 

81. om aSesajanavandyaya namah 

82. om viSesaphaladayine namah 

83. om vasikrtajanesaya namah 

84. om pasinam pataye namah 

85. om khecaraya namah 

86. om khagesaya namah 

87. om ghananilambaraya namah 

88. om kathinyamanasaya namah 

89. om aryaganastutyaya namah 

90. om nilacchatraya namah 

91. om nityaya namah 

92. om nirgunaya namah 

93. om gunatmane namah 

94. om niramayaya namah 

95. om nandyaya namah 

96. om vandaniyaya namah 

97. om dhiraya namah 

98. om divyadehaya namah 

99. om dinartiharanaya namah 
100. om dainyanasakaraya namah 
101. om aryajanaganyaya namah 
102. om kriraya namah 
103. om kruracestaya namah 
104. om kamakrodhakaraya namah 
105. om kalatraputrasatrutvakaranaya namah 
106. om paripositabhaktaya namah 
107. om parabhitiharaya namah 
108. om bhaktasamghamanobhistaphaladaya namah 


SOURCES AND ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS 


While these lists are well Known to traditional astrologers in India, | only found two 
places where they had been printed. | am thus indebted to Dr Mrs Saraswathy and Prof. B. A. 
Eeswaran for publishing a Sanskrit text of the names of the Grahas in their book 
NavaGrahas, albeit without translation and source, and Prof. S.K. Ramachandra Rao for his 
outstanding compendium The NavaGraha Kosha, which includes another set. Prof. Rao 
informed me that his work was based on a medieval text. Regretfully Prof. Rao has passed 
away. These two sources have some differences. Where | felt that both versions of a name 
had merit, | included both under the same number. 


| am most grateful to Pandit UmaShankar Jois, priest of the Mukambika temple, Kollur, 
Karnataka, India, for his help in the early stages of this work. Regretfully, he has now passed 
away. Many other pundits gave me their learned opinion on particular names and | thank them 
all. My Jyotish Guru, Pandit Sanjay Rath, has been a great inspiration. 


Two great artists have kindly allowed me to showcase their beautiful work. Pieter 
Weltevrede, acclaimed Dutch master painter, did all the colour work. The drawings were 
done by the highly talented Jane Adams. Find out more about them in the Section ‘The 
Artists’. 


Many people helped me with editing and proofreading and | thank them all. Especially, 
| want to thank my wife Susie for her considerable assistance and all my family for their love 
and support. 


ABOUT THE AUTHOR 


Andrew Foss has a PhD in Computing Science from the University of Alberta and is 
also an Oxford University Physics graduate with publications in Nature and other leading sci- 
entific journals. He is the author of the book High-Dimensional Data Mining. He enjoys a deep 
love of music, art and poetry and has more than 30 years experience studying and teaching 
the Vedic wisdom around the world. He is the Founding President of the British Association of 
Vedic Astrology, Editor of the BAVA Journal Gochara and is a Certified Jaimini Scholar and 
Jyotish Pandit, the highest professional certifications in Vedic Astrology involving nine years 
of continuous study. He has developed the unique, easy and powerful software Shri Jyoti 
Star that has become the first choice amongst the leading Vedic Astrologers around the 
world. Andrew is married and lives with his family in Virginia, USA. 


SECRETS OF VIMSHOTTARI DASHA 


As a bonus | have decided to publish some unique secrets about Vedic Astrology in 
the printed version of this book, which will also have the mantras of all nine planets. Please 
visit YogaOfThePlanets.com for more information. 


For 33 years, |, like everyone else who studies Jyotisha, wondered about the origin of 
the lengths of the Vimshottari Dashas. | could never find a way into this mystery. Nowhere in 
the literature, ancient or modern, can even a satisfactory hint be found. Then, on July 7, 2015, 
| saw on the web at least a partial derivation of the sequence of lords. It relied on knowing the 
Dasha cycle lengths. At the end, the author appealed for someone to find a solution to the 
problem of deriving the length of the cycles. The thought came, ‘let’s give it a shot’. 


| pulled out a fresh sheet of paper and started writing down equations that might help. 
Bit by bit the key principles unfolded themselves. It did not take long to realize that | had an 
answer and it just required some polishing. In the process, some wonderful insights 
appeared as well as a profound advance in the understanding of the Tara Bala, which is most 
important for interpreting the Dasha. | have not found this written anywhere. Therefore, both 
these re-markable and interesting secrets were given to me and | am sharing them with you. 


Notes 


Yoga Philosophy of Patafijali. Trans. PN. Mukerji, Univ. Of Calcutta, 1977. 


Each Nakshatra or lunar mansion has a planetary ruler used in astrological calculations as well as a Vedic deity. 


The Atmakaraka is the soul planet. It is the Graha that has advanced furthest in its zodiacal sign. Rahu is 
naturally retrograde, so it is an exception being measured from the end of the sign. Ketu is not considered as it 
represents the freedom of the soul, not its embodiment. 


