THE YOGA OF THE PLANETS 


RAHU, THE NORTH NODE 
Anorew Foss, PoD 


nares F q 
ae 
Y A 
satel oe 
ry +4 . f 
ma S a we “ff ea! 
= i xigets 
x * , co 
: a 4 
“ ; ; 
?, 5 


get Oe | 
ha 


=» 
Fae, 
wo 


4 : Zua§ 
aN ¥ Le ra Fr, 


iis SRO ERA Seed Uae 
> ee FS) REGU Sy 
Ret CB EN f 


v 
Cin pet 


ri Darl Secs RAG 


A 

we tae, 

Se Way ee 

eee se Dae vil 
Be ee 


TABLE OF Contents 


Dedication 

How this Book will Help You 
Find your Personal Mantras 
The Journey 


Notes on Pronounciation from the Transliteration 


Hymn in Honour of the Planets 
Rahu, the North Node 


The Mantras of Rahu in Transliteration 
Secrets of Vimshottari Dasha 
Sources and Acknowledgements 

The Artists 


About the Author 


HOW THIS BOOK WILL HELP YOU 


This book has many uses. In itself, it is a meditation. There is no need to know 
anything about Vedic Astrology to enjoy and benefit. There are insights into astrology but the 
main focus is enlightening the consciousness and providing a rebalancing of the energies 
represented by the planets. This will happen automatically as one reads the mantras and their 


commentaries. 


There are 108 mantras for each planet used in Vedic Astrology. Each mantra is a 
descriptive name converted to a salutation and used for meditation or chanting. For example 
‘om Santaya namah’ means ‘salutations to the peaceful one’ and is based on the name santa 
(shaanta) which means peaceful. Reciting the mantra develops understanding for the quality 
embodied in the name and can help mental clarity and spiritual development. In the transla- 
tion, the first mantra of each planet is fully translated. After that, just the names are translated 


leaving ‘Salutations to’ understood. 


The Vedic planets are normally listed in the order of the days of the week. They are 
the Sun, the Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus and Saturn plus the two eclipse points. 
These are the Lunar nodes called Rahu (the North node) and Ketu (the South node). The Vedic 
‘planets’ are often referred to as ‘Grahas’, the Sanskrit word which means ‘graspers’, as they 
appear to guide and control our experiences. 


For the first time, these mantras are listed with translation and commentary. Even if you 
only read the commentaries, you will get some of the benefit. If the planet is weak or afflicted 


in your life, then this acts as a remedy. If it is already strong, this helps to enliven its full value. 


A common way of using these mantras is to recite the set of 108 for the planet one 
chooses’. For example, one could recite the mantras of the Sun on Sunday mornings. The 
next chapter, Find your Personal Mantras, will explain how to go beyond this and find out 


which of the mantras will especially enliven your personal chart. 


The mantras of the more malefic planets, such as Mars, Saturn, Rahu and Ketu, natu- 
rally contain some names, which describe the more challenging side of the Graha. These help 
us to understand certain behaviours and this can be remedial. For these names, it may be 
better to contemplate the deeper meanings rather than simply repeating them. For example, 
Rahu is said to be cruel. This association with cruelty arises out of fear. Fear is deeply seated 


in survival issues. 


Contemplating the mantra may help one get in touch with the source of the problem, 
so it can be alleviated. Loving an injured heart can be the basis of real change. This applies to 


our self or another. | do not recommend using the more challenging names as regular practice 


mantras and | certainly do not recommend you ask another person to do them even if they 
come up when you do the calculations described in the next chapter. On the other hand, | 
have found listening to the sets of 108 names has been beneficial for my clients. 


If chanting one or a set of mantras, | suggest you start with 
om gam ganapataye namah 
to invoke the pure state of mind and end with 
om Santih Santin Santih 
meaning ‘Om peace, peace, peace’. 


For convenience, | am publishing the mantras of the nine planets of Vedic Astrology in 
nine separate eBooks. Put together, the length was too great but | am combining them all in 
the printed version. To find the eBook for another planet, visit YogaOfThePlanets.com. There 
you can also find information on the audio of the recitation of the mantras. | have on occasion 
given these to clients to listen to when that planet was afflicted in their chart with very posi- 
tive results. 


FIND YOUR PERSONAL MANTRAS 


A great secret being released with this book is how to find the best mantras for you 
from the list of 108. This secret has been closely kept by a few Indian Astrologers and | am in- 
debted to my teacher, Pandit Sanjay Rath, for enlightening me about this. 


It is very simple. The reason why there are 108 mantras for the planets as well as such 
lists for the deities is because the zodiac is naturally divided into 108 segments. 108 is said 
to be the number of Shree, the Goddess of prosperity. Astrologically, it is our whole world. 
For example, the name of a new born child is often given based on the Moon’s place in these 
divisions. 


It is not only the Moon that is important. The Sun is very important and all the other 
planets of Vedic Astrology can be key. It all depends on our chart. Whatever the chart, doing 
the mantra for the position of a planet can be very beneficial. It will resonate with us and thus 
has extra energy. 


There are a number of approaches for finding a powerful mantra for you or for a client, 
student or friend. The first | describe requires no astrology and the others are connected to 
the actual positions of the planets. For those with an interest in Vedic Astrology, this can be- 
come quite detailed as we drill down on the relationship between different planets. Therefore, 
a chapter on advanced applications is to be found in the printed version of the book. Here we 
give the easy astrological applications. 


However you arrive at a mantra, please pay attention to the caveat mentioned in the 
previous section. 


Method One, the Random Number 


Picking a random number may sound an unlikely idea but it is something that many 
prognostic systems employ, including the Vedic Astrology method of answering questions. 
This technique often gives clear insights. If you are calm and quietly focused, then nature 
talks to you and one way of facilitating this is picking a number. There are really two situations, 
finding a number for oneself and finding one for another. For example, if you are a Yoga 
teacher whose student wants a mantra or someone sharing with a friend. 


Suppose you want a random number for yourself and do not want to imagine a number 
out of 108. You can get three single digit numbers by picking numbers you see. One way is to 
open a book and take the final digit of the page number and do this three times. For example, 
suppose you open a book at random three times and get pages 21, 143 and 79. Pick the final 
digits which would be 1, 3 and 9. Write down these digits to form a number 139 and adjust 


to the desired range by subtracting 108. In this example, 139 — 108 = 31. Of course, you can 
come up with many alternate ways of getting a number. 


My astrological software Shri Jyoti Stare gives a random number. In the Data Entry 
screen, click ‘Enter Number’. If you are asked about ‘Replacing the current chart...’ click Yes 
or No. In the next screen, make sure the Range is set to 108 and you will see a random num- 
ber is given to you. 


If there is another person involved, one can ask them for a number. This often works. 
What we want is a number between 1 and 108. If the person gives us a number larger than 
108, we can keep subtracting 108 until we get a number in the desired range. For example, if 
they say 250, then subtracting 108 twice (216) gives 34. However, we may feel that the person 
is interpreting our answer to mean a single digit number only or perhaps knows the system 
we are using too well and may be biased towards certain numbers. Then we can ask for three 
single digit numbers as in the method described just above but we can write them down in re- 
verse order. This is just a suggestion, in reality we can use any scheme that we like. 


A separate app for this book is planned, which will do both random number and astro- 
logical calculations (information will be posted on YogaOfThePlanets.com). 


Method Two, Using the Astrological Chart 


The following is how to find the number for your natal Moon (or any planet). First, find 
out the sidereal position from any software, for example Shri Jyoti Star. In the current version 
7, it will also give you the mantra number next to the planet glyphs in charts. The planned app 
for this book will also give the number (see YogaOfThePlanets.com) but it is easy to do it by 
hand if one has the planet position. Examples are given below. 


In the table following, look up the planet position and find the number. Note, the table 
is at the end of this section and it is quite narrow to facilitate reading on narrow screens. If you 
still cannot see the whole width of the table, rotate your device to Landscape or pinch in until 
you can see the whole table. 


For example, suppose the planet is at Virgo 5 degrees. 5° is between 3°20’ and 6°40' 
so look in the second column of numbers under 6°40’ in the row for Virgo. You will find the 
number 47. Then look in the book for the mantra numbered 47. In the main text, the number 
is given at the start of the commentary, after the mantra. In the lists at the end, the mantra fol- 
lows the number. For the Moon, the mantra for 47 is ‘om muktidaya namah’. 


This is the simplest application of the rule where the number is counted from the start 
of the zodiac. This can be called ‘God’s view’ as the beginning of the zodiac is the beginning 
of the chart from the point of view of the Creator. Thus, it is very powerful. However, there 
are other views. There is the count from the Moon, which gives the social or personal view. 


There is the count from the Sun, which is like the view from our soul. Another important 
count is from the Ascendant, which relates to the body and health. Reciting the mantra we 
get from this count may help our health but if we feel sick we should always consult a medi- 
cal professional. 


We can make a count from any of the planets as the starting point. In Jyotisna (Vedic 
Astrology) there are systems of planetary cycles (periods), especially the famous Vimshottari 
Dasha system. All Vedic Astrology software like Shri Jyoti Star give these cycles too. Even 
some Western Astrology software or online software give them. For example, you might be 
running a Venus Moon cycle and subcycle. That means you are in the major cycle of Venus 
and the minor cycle of the Moon (called a Bhukti). In this example, one can count from Venus 
to the Moon and use the mantra from the Moon list. 


For example, let us find the mantra for the Moon from the perspective of the Sun. Let 
us suppose the Sun is at 8°10’ Leo and the Moon is at 4°30’ Sagittarius. First find the number 
for the Sun from the table as we did above, which is 39, and then the number for the Moon 
from the table which is 74, as 4°30’ is greater than 3°20’ and less than 6°40’. Now subtract 39 
from 74 and add 1, which gives you 36. Then find mantra 36 in the mantra list for the Moon. 
We add 1 because if both planets have the same number, the answer has to be 1, there is no 
mantra for zero. If the subtraction gives a negative value, just add 108 to the result. 


Now you know how to find key mantras for your chart in general and for your Dasha cy- 
cles. | recommend you start with ‘God’s view’ as this can be considered the most important. 


(The table is on the next page) 


Degrees up to 


Sign 3° 6° 40% “1380 “46? <20% 93% BE --30° 
20’ 40’ 20’ = 40’ 20’ = 40’ 

Aries 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 

Taurus 10. ~=«11 12 13 14 15 16 #17 ~ 18 

Gemini 19 20 21 22 23 24 2 26 27 


Cancer 28 29 30 ~~ 31 32 33 34 35 36 


Leo 37 38 39 40 = 41 42 43 44 45 
Virgo 46 47 48 49 50 51 52 5354 
Libra 55 56 «57 58 59 #60 61 62 63 


Scorpio 64 65 66 67 68 69 70 71 72 
Sagittarius 73 74 15 7 77 78 79 ~=©680-~—St—s«éO83211 
Capricorn 82 83 84 85 86 87 88 89 90 
Aquarius 91 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 
Pisces 100 101 102 103 104 105 106 107 108 


THe AsTROLOGICAL Houses 


In various places in this book you will find reference to houses or places from some 
important personal marker such as the Ascendant or the Moon. The simplest and traditional 
way of understanding this is in terms of the 12 signs of the zodiac, Aries, Taurus, etc. If 
the Moon is in Taurus, then Taurus is the first house or place from the Moon. Gemini is the 
second. Aries is the twelfth, etc. One only has to count round by signs. The Ascendant is in 


the sign rising on the Eastern horizon at the time of birth. 


THE JOURNEY 


On March 3rd 1995, | entered the sacred and tranquil valley surrounding the small 
village of Kollur. | had fostered a desire to visit here for eight years since a friend told me about 
it. | did not know why | felt this connection but when | was finally able to travel to India | set 
my heart on reaching that place. It seemed very special and | must have feared going straight 
there in case my energy was unprepared. | chose to go first to Tamil Nadu on the opposite 


coast and to the great temple of Rameshvaram. 


Rameshvaram is on the spit of land opposite Sri Lanka. This is the place Shri Rama 
worshipped Lord Shiva before launching his campaign to recover his wife Sita from the 
demon king. To cross the ocean, his army of monkeys and bears built a bridge or causeway 
across the ocean. This was many thousands of years ago but, amazingly, the remains of a 
causeway to Sri Lanka are still visible in satellite photos. According to temple records, Shit 
Rama’s bridge was passable being completely above the sea until destroyed by a cyclone in 
1480 AD. 


From Rameshvaram, | visited the great temple of Minakshi and thence to the very tip of 
India, Kanyakumari. This place has remarkable temples especially that of the Virgin Goddess. 
| rose and went at 3:30 am and was almost alone in witnessing the bathing of the Goddess in 
milk. It was the Full Moon day. A little later | did homage to the shrine for the Navagraha and 
received a distinct blessing. Prior to that | had done some study of Jyotisha but had received 
no authority from any Guru or other source to study and practice. This was a most unex- 


pected Grace. 


From Kanyakumari, | travelled up the Kerala coast visiting Ashrams and temples until 
| came to Kollur. It was a great moment, though for no obvious reason at all. Kollur is home 
to the famous temple of Devi Mookambika, the Goddess of the mouth. It is said she grants 
blessings related to the voice and the arts. Most evenings, artists from all over India come to 


perform before her. They sing, dance and play instruments. 


At the time | knew nothing about this temple. | did not know that astrologers from all 
over South India come here to pray and do penance for Vak Siddhi, the power that whatever 
one says proves true. After all, people expect an astrologer to have this power. While, in rare 
cases, it is possible that a person is born with this, generally it only arises after long and sin- 
cere spiritual practice. This is why Vedic Astrology, Jyotisha, is primarily a spiritual discipline 


and one should seek a guru or gurus to guide one’s spiritual and intellectual development. 


The essence of success in an earthly endeavour is the Grace of the Goddess and for 


each aspirant there is some form that appeals to him or her and which can grant success. 


There are rules for finding this form but ultimately it is very personal. | should make it clear that 
talk of gods and goddesses does not conflict with the monotheistic view because the Vedic 
view is that the One takes whatever form we desire or can be approached as purely formless 
if that is our path. 


The worship of the Goddess in India is, at its peak, related to the Shri Vidya and the 
Shri Chakra. The great sage and teacher Adi Shankaracharya installed a Shri Chakra under 
the deity in the Mookambika temple. After some time in Kollur, | came to know that he also 
installed a Shri Chakra at the top of the highest mountain nearby where the root shrine of 
the Goddess is to be found. Part of the pilgrimage is to walk to the top of this mountain. It 
is about 12 miles or one can take the bus part of the way and walk the last 3-4 hours. | had 
many extraordinary experiences on this mountain as well as in the temple, which | will write 
about elsewhere. 


While | was staying at the temple, somehow | conceived of this book. It seemed to me 
that the sets of 108 names of the Grahas (planets) were important and used by astrologers 
but | could find no trace of a translation or commentary. So | started making notes. When | 
could not understand a word, | discussed it with my friend UmaShankar Jois who is one of the 
distinguished priests at the temple. He studied Jyotisha with a great Guru though he passed 
away before my friend’s studies were complete. UmaShankar is a great expert in the remedial 
measures and he felt | had some knowledge on the analysis of charts so we spent a lot of time 
discussing Jyotisha together. 


I stayed at Kollur for more than 40 days, as is the custom, and then went for Shivaratri 
in Varanasi. This is the greatest festival for Lord Shiva and Varanasi is considered the city of 
Shiva, and is one of the most profound places to celebrate it. As | was about to leave Kollur, 
| went to the temple to take Her leave to go. The priests put me at the front during the Arti 
(ritual waving of lights before the shrine), which is the peak of the evening worship. Then | got 
on the bus to go to Bangalore where | could catch a train for the North. 


As it happened, the conductor of this bus was part of a ring of thieves who stole the 
luggage of innocents like me. | arrived in Bangalore without anything, all my notes were gone. 
Still | managed to continue my journey and reached Varanasi, the great city of Shiva, at 4 am 
on Shivaratri. | washed and went straight to the temple having no luggage to concern me. 
Standing in the queue | noticed that | was the only male wearing traditional clothing. There 
was a guard on the door and they often turn ‘tourists’ away. He looked me over for a while 
and then enthusiastically said ‘om namah Ssivaya’ and waived me in. 


The next year, | returned to Kollur with another notebook. | started by writing down all 
that | remembered and naturally found that my understanding had improved over the year and 
quickly was ahead of my previous work. When | left Kollur after another 40+ days | had just 


a few names which | could not decipher. | visited Prof. Ramachandra Rao in Bangalore who 
was one of the two people that | found who had published the lists of the names. We had an 
interesting discussion. He was a very great scholar. Unfortunately, he has now passed away. 
Travelling through India | met many good scholars who kindly gave me their opinions so the 
meanings became clear. Since then, from time to time | wrote my small commentary. It re- 


flects many stages in my own spiritual life. | hope you enjoy it. 


In 2007, | visited a small house a few miles north of the great Konark temple. This 
temple, though now partially ruined, was perhaps India’s greatest temple to the Sun god. It 
is built like a giant chariot. Some of the carvings are now in the British Museum including 
the large carvings of the nine Grahas (planets). The Konark temple stands near the beach in 
the North Eastern part of India’s V shape so is one of the first places to see the rays of the 
rising Sun. Konark is some 20 miles north of Puri where the great Jagannatha temple of Lord 
Krishna is to be found administered by the Shankaracharya of the East. He is charged with 


maintaining the Rig Veda, accepted as humanity’s oldest recorded wisdom text. 


About 500 years ago, the great spiritual teacher Chaitanya Mahaprabhu resided here 
and the lineages derived from him are still very widespread today, such as ISKCON. He had 
five ‘sakhas’ or friends, as they were called, one of which was Swami Achyutananda. The 
Swami was initiated by the great teacher at an early age and went on to become the King’s 
astrologer, a noted author of over 200 books and an enlightened sage. He also founded 13 
schools in the region. These taught various sciences and several were dedicated to Jyotisha. 
When he was leaving his body, he promised to remain in a ‘shunya’ form. Shunya means the 
void and it is a term he explained in great depth in one of his books. It does not refer to mere 


nothingness but to a profound state of Being. 


He kept his promise and even today you can go and consult him. That is where | was 
going. There is a small shrine and next to it are the quarters of a pandit who keeps and 
interprets a set of copper plates (tamra poti). These plates only contain some drawings like 
the shape of a lotus, but when you enter there with a question in your mind, the answer 
appears written in ancient Odia (the local language 500 years ago) and the pandit reads them 
for you. If you look, you can actually see the writing appear. | went there with several friends, 
all of whom were students of Pandit Sanjay Rath who is the last remaining person carrying 
the knowledge of the Jyotisha schools founded by the Swami. In effect, we had joined his 
lineage. The answers we got were remarkably pertinent and insightful. We were all given 
mantras. | later talked to a colleague who has taken over 40 people there and he said no one 


had ever been given a mantra. 


The Swami told me to finish my book. | noticed that when | did the mantra, | would 


work more on this text. | hope he forgives me for the long time spent in fulfilling his instruction 


but perhaps | or the time was not ripe before now. This year (2015) marks the 20th year since 
| started and only this year did | make the important discovery about the Vimshottari Dasha 
which is published in this book. In the derivation of the Vimshottari Dasha cycles or periods, 


the great significance of 20 years is revealed. 


The name of the Sun temple is from Kona + Arka. Arka is a name of the Sun and 
Kona means trine. In Jyotisha, this indicates the Dharma Trikona, the sustainer of life, which | 
have written about in many places in this book and is so important in the interpretation of the 


Vimshottari Dasha. 


NOTES ON PRONOUNCIATION FROM THE TRANSLITERATION 


In the transliteration, there are marks called diacriticals that aid correct pronunciation. 


In Sanskrit there are long and short syllables. The long ones are to be sounded for 
twice as long as the short ones, even longer is OK. Vowels with a line over them like ‘a’ and 
double vowels like ‘ai’ are all long. ‘h’ (h with a dot under it) is pronounced like ‘ah’, that is 
with aspiration. It is often pronounced as ‘ahah’ but this is not recommended for mantras as 
it effectively adds another syllable and the syllable count of a mantra is important. ‘s’ with an 


acute accent is like ‘sh’. For example, ‘Sukrah’ is pronounced ‘shukrah’. 


Consonants or sibilants with a dot under them like t or s are retroflex. For example, t is 
pronounced as the ‘t’ in Tom. You curl your tongue back and strike your palate. ‘t’ on the other 
hand is a dental sound. ‘th’ is ‘t’ with some aspiration as are all the other syllables that have 


an ‘h’ like ‘bh’, ‘dh’ and ‘gh’. You just blow a little when saying the consonant. 


The ‘r’ such as in ‘brhat’ is a vowel in Sanskrit pronounced like the ‘ry’ in jewelry. ‘c’ is 
pronounced as ‘ch’, as in ‘change’. In the commentary, | usually use ‘ch’. If ‘ch’ appears in the 
transliteration, then it is like ‘chh’, which is ‘ch’ with some extra aspiration. 


Please visit a Sanskrit learning web site or teacher for more detailed advice. One good 
site is learnsanskrit.org. 


The Devanagari (Sanskrit) support on a PC is excellent but may not be so perfect on 
mobile devices. Older Kindle devices and other eReaders may not show it at all. One can al- 


ways check against the transliteration, which should be correct. 


Please note that the first time part of a mantra is mentioned in the following text, it is 
italicized. Sanskrit terms in the commentaries are often transliterated but not always accord- 
ing to the more rigorous scheme. Sometimes the more usual form is followed using the stan- 
dard English alphabet. 


HYMN IN HONOUR OF THE PLANETS 


so Th TUNA Aa: 


om gar ganapataye namah 


Sa HURRAH AM: IM YTHE Sera 
TEM Yr: Walghda: Fs Wer: WA HU Fadil 


brahma muraristripurantakarl bhanuh Sast 
bhiUmisuto budhasca | 
gurusca Sukrah Sanirahuketavah sarve grahah 


Santi kara bhavantu || 


Brahma (the Creator), Murari (Vishnu, the Sustainer), Tripurantakarin (Siva, the slayer of the 
demon Tripurasura), Bhanu (the Sun), Shashin (the Moon), Bhimisuta (Mars, the son of the 
Earth), Budha (Mercury), Guru (Jupiter), Shukra (Venus), Shani (Saturn), Rahu and Ketu, may 


all these Grahas be peaceful. 


RAHU, THE NORTH NODE 


0 Ted AH: 


om rahave namah 


1. Salutations to the one who hides the Sun. 


Rahu and Ketu are the eclipse points, where the orbit of the Moon crosses the path of 
the Sun. Everything about them is rooted in humanity’s experience of these great phenomena. 
Awe and fear. Shock and surprise. This is the glory of the nodes of the Moon. 


Hu hides Ra, the creative vibration. Ra is the giver, the one who bestows life. Hu is to 
eat but also to offer or present to the sacrificial fire, Ra. The life force is offered back to Agni, 
the fire of consciousness. This is how it appears hidden but is in fact deepening. This is why 
Jupiter’s planetary cycle (Dasha) follows Rahu’s. 

The mirage-chasing of Rahu, where we seem to forget who we really are, truly serves 


a Highlighters <=<-*22-stpecscrecsen secs ssstcn setae snpravind core eocesstndacise tie ccnasecncboentassasssoccscasmescc ses Sse sit 
asa sacrificial offering of our individual creativity. This is first magnified in Rahu’s period, as 


the fire glows: when ghee is offered into it. Then it appears to dissolve as it merges with the 
universal creativity or the essence of truth and becomes ‘Jupiter's divine wisdom. This is a 


oe eh et i i en ee es 


As we proceed through the mantras or names of Rahu, we will see that some have 
obviously uplifting meanings while others appear quite dark. Like the name Rahu itself, there 
are two sides of the same coin. Rahu plays devil’s advocate but is also a critical component 
of creation and spiritual awakening. That is why fear, Rahu’s most obvious signification, is a 
paper tiger. It is there to divert us from the path but it has no power to do so unless we take 
it at its face value. 


When we come across a darker meaning, let us try to fathom its revelatory side. For 
example, Rahu can be like a storm but storms blow away much that needs to go and after it 


passes, the air is fresh. 
xo Oehary AH: 
om saimhikeyaya namah 


2. The son of Simhika. 


Simhika was a demonness. Rahu is born from the semen of a great Brahmin saint and 
the womb of a demon. Thus, he is both divine and demonic in his action. 


Simht means a lioness. The lion symbolizes rulership, which is the power that controls 
life and death. The Sanskrit word for lion or Leo is Simha. It is derived from the word Himsa, 
injury and violence, by a reversal that gives it the power to protects its pride (family and 
people). 


The Goddess Durga rides on a lion and is worshipped to control the negative effects 
6 Highlighters ---------+--"-+----2+-- 2220+ 2nececeeec cee ce seen cc eee cece ne seen cece sce ce neces e nc eeee ce ee sto eneeceeeeceeesee: 
of Rahu. [eo is said to be where the Moon was placed when Rahu was born making this his 


birth sign (Rahu 68). In India, your birth sign or Janma Rashi is the zodiacal sign in which the 
Moon is placed at birth. Similarly, the Janma Nakshatra is the star group in which the Moon 


was placed at birth. 


The Janma Nakshatra can determine the name one is given, at least the first syllable, 
and is mentioned whenever one performs any special rites. One’s day-to-day destiny is based 
on this amongst other things. For example, certain stars counted from one’s birth star are 
considered auspicious while others are difficult. In Jyotisha, this theory is known as Tara Bala 
or the strength due to the stars. This is discussed in depth in the Chapter on Secrets of the 
Vimshottari Dasha in the printed version of this book. 


Leo is the place of the king. Rahu is the great manipulator and represents the leading 
politicians like the cabinet of the king. Rahu rules over brilliant strategies, scheming and all 
the abuses of power. Leo is also fourth (the house of the mother) from Taurus where Rahu is 
at a high point as the accumulator and manipulator of wealth. Like all the Grahas, Rahu has a 
sign in which its archetype shines brightest termed the place of exaltation. For many scholars, 
this is Taurus. Others say that it is powerful in Taurus but gives its peak effect for most worldly 
affairs in Gemini. Taurus is the place of wealth, while Gemini is the place of academic debate. 
Rahu love debates as he always has a counter argument. 


The other two angles or Kendras from Taurus and Leo are the signs Scorpio and 
Aquarius which are the signs owned by Ketu and Rahu respectively. These four are the fixed 
signs and all are intimately associated with the nodes and their powers. In the ancient text, 
the Jaimini Upadesha Sutras, the fixed signs are shown to behave in a reverse way from the 
other signs in certain circumstances, just as the nodes are retrograde in their motion. For ex- 
ample, Taurus is an even sign but acts like an odd sign in matters of Dharma. 


xo faye 44: 


om vidhuntudaya namah 


3. The agitator of the mind or Moon. 


Rahu never lets you settle. Whatever he touches gets stirred up and transformed. This 
is mentioned right at the beginning of the names and is one of the primary qualities of Rahu. 

Rahu rules over troubles and irritating insects like mosquitoes. In the previous name, 
we saw that Rahu can be controlled by Durga, the Mother Goddess. When | was in Hong 
Kong, there was an area with a serious malaria problem. They were not spraying due to in- 
sufficient funds. However, a campaign to improve cleanliness and hygiene including removing 
standing water virtually eliminated the incidence of the disease. These are the kind of things 
every mother knows and pays attention to. Similarly, social agitations cannot flourish if the 
government cares well for its people. In our global society, those living in poverty and war 
zones should not be forgotten. Social welfare is a natural maternal function. 


Society and motherhood are indicated by the Moon. It is a fundamental rule of Jyotisha 
that the Moon is the one who can fight Rahu. Rahu can block Mars, which represents the mil- 
itary and police. Governments with a terrorism problem should think about this carefully. 


Mantras like this that seem negative need a special approach. Please see Rahu 1 and 
read the chapter on How this Book will Help You. 


xo Guard AH: 


om surasatrave namah 


4. The enemy (Shatru) of the gods (Sura), the drinkers of the nectar. 


The story goes that the gods were seeking the nectar of immortality. This had to be ob- 
tained by churning the ocean (of consciousness) but they could not accomplish this alone. So 
they made a deceitful alliance with the demons, promising to share the nectar. Neither party 
had any intention of sharing but they postponed the fight until the nectar emerged. Together, 
they used the king of the serpents, Vasuki, as a churning rope. The demons grabbed the head 
thinking it was more prestigious without considering the poisonous fumes they would have 
to bear. This is a lesson on egotism. The gods took the tail and they started to churn using 
the great mountain Meru. In Sanskrit, the story is called the Samudra Manthana, literally the 
churning of the ocean. 


There are many details to this highly symbolic story but eventually the great divine 
sage Dhanvantari appeared holding the jar of nectar. The fight started and in fear of losing 
it, the gods appealed to Lord Vishnu for help. Vishnu became Mohini, the most entrancing 
female form, which confused even Shiva. The demons lost all sense of their own well-being 


and handed over the nectar to Her to distribute. She had them all line up, the gods first, and 
started to give the nectar to the gods. 


The other demons were waiting at the end of the line but one sneaked in between the 
Sun and the Moon and received a few drops of the nectar. The luminaries saw the deception 
and alerted Vishnu who immediately severed the head of the demon. The other demons 
watched this and yet remained deluded — so great was their fascination with Mohints form 
that they could not take in the obvious nature of the treachery. The demon whose head was 
severed became Rahu (the head) and Ketu (the body) and both were rendered immortal by 
the touch of the nectar. In revenge, they continue endlessly to eclipse the Sun and the Moon. 


This story has many deep meanings. One inference is that Rahu represents the head 
or the egoistic tendencies. Ketu is headless and therefore represents mistakes as well as sur- 
render and spirituality. We will see more as we proceed through the names. 


xo Tae Aa: 


om tamase namah 


5. Dark. 


As a mere point in the sky he cannot be seen. He is of the nature of Tamas — dullness, 
laziness, carelessness and inertia. Like Saturn (see Saturn 80), Rahu contributes an influence 
of Tamas to whatever it is associated with in the chart. One important example is when Rahu 
is close to the Sun. The Sun represents our deepest sense of self and it is a luminous Sattvic 
Graha. Sattva is purity, cleanness and wakefulness. Those with Rahu conjoined the Sun may 
have issues with their father or feel or sense that some shadow has invaded their soul. This 


can cause a focus on pursuing detox programs, therapies, and meditation. 


This is good, but the resolution has to be within consciousness. The true Self is beyond 
light and darkness and is only known when these seeming opposites are integrated. Rahu is 
a great amplifier so it breaks our boundaries, our identifications as an ego, and can give us 
unbounded awareness. This combination is found in the birth charts of many great saints. 
Something that can cause self-doubt and even deep seated fears, can also be a profound 
blessing especially if Jupiter is strong and well-placed. Then the combination is surely divine. 
Other placements of Jupiter combined with the joining of Sun and Rahu can motivate some- 
one into politics. There is an urge to prove one’s worth and if well placed and supported, this 
can lead to great achievements. Many famous politicians have this combination. 


Rahu causes fear and the usual response to fear is to try to control oneself and one’s 
AHighlighters c= <=". c-scaseas steric ia enc tsteacis ce acessanaten shore ees ces SITS s 
EOL OnITEnE This tends to make things worse. The ane is to relax inside of the fear. If 


we feel turbulence, it is best to maintain the intention of relaxing inside of it. Allow it to flow 
4 Highlighters s2c--> Sess recs oS se ctcggh sek na Sen secon chanel de Isic tener ness sinie no satin terrence ecg Golde no esineat oe deSiccie 
through us, like a breaking fever. Gradually we can succeed. 


om phanine namah 


6. A hooded serpent (Phanin). 


Here is the first clue to the relationship of Rahu and Ketu to the subtle nervous system. 
Ketu is the tail of the serpent and is thus related to the base of the spine, while Rahu is the 
hooded head that is like the top of the spine and the brain. This is the principal pathway of 
the Kundalini energy, the subtle power which resides at the base and can rise up to grant uni- 


fied consciousness. 


Here we have a very important point. The Sun represents truth and pure conscious- 
ness while Rahu and Ketu rule over the spiritual experiences. This includes all the experiences 
of the Chakras and various states of consciousness, everything other than pure Being itself. 
Pure Being is not an experience, it is just Being itself. The position and movement in transit of 
the nodes, trigger these experiences. Thus they rise and fade but can leave a lasting impres- 


sion. For truth, Being has to be enough. 


30 TRATAAT AA: 


om gargyayanaya namah 


7. Belonging to the clan or followers of Gargi. 


The learned pandits that | consulted in India could not explain this name. Here | present 
a number of ideas and literal interpretations of the meaning followed by a possible correction 
to the text. 


Gargyayana literally means the movement of Gargi (or Gargya), the path or teaching 
of Gargi or taking Gargi as one’s refuge. Gargi was an astronomer and an astrologer. In 
ancient times, the two were separate sections of the same science. Newton, Kepler and other 
astronomers were astrologers. Astronomy was driven by the need to calculate the planetary 
positions to predict the seasons and mundane events. It could also refer to Gargi who was 
an enlightened sage who cognized several of the Rig Vedic hymns. She, like Gargi, was a 
descendent of the ancient seer Garga, who wrote a great astronomical and astrological trea- 


tise, the Garga Samhita. His followers and descendants could be called Gargyas. The Vishnu 


Purana tells us that sage Garga gave the name to Shri Krishna. It also explains that Krishna’s 
appearance was foretold by the old sage Gargya who the translator identifies with Garga. 
Thus, this name shows that Rahu can represent scientists, philosophers and Jyotishis. 


Garga can mean a bull which makes us think of Taurus. This is a very strong place 
for Rahu (Rahu 2) so, like a bull, its transit through there shakes the world. It activates many 
chaotic elements in many arenas. Rahu is seen as a source of terror because his placement 
and movement stirs up our world, causing fear. In Leo he can cause the people to revolt 
against the establishment. He is powerful in Gemini and Taurus and can become violent in 
Aries if incited due to the association with Mars, Aries’ ruler. The present phase of turmoil in 
the Middle East started when Rahu entered Gemini on the last day of July 2000. The ‘Second 
Intifada’ started in September. 


Krittika, which lies principally in Taurus, is the Nakshatra of fire and electricity. After 
Rahu entered this in February 2003, we saw the worst blackouts and forest fires in living 
memory. All of North East USA, London and much of Italy lost power. In fact, hardly a place 
on the planet was completely unaffected by power cuts. Entering watery Pisces in April 2005 
he stirred up the ocean and that was a terrible year for hurricanes including Hurricane Katrina. 
In short, Rahu moves striking precisely those things indicated by the sign and Nakshatra he 
has entered. This can be a blessing because it reveals areas of weakness or neglect and ini- 
tiates change. 


Rahu stirs up the rigidities that can be a block to individual and social growth. In the 
extreme case, this can be expressed through revolutions or even terrorism. As the Moon 
controls Rahu, having leaders with pure hearts and clear minds can stop the violence. Social 
disturbances will only stop through a softening of the consciousness due to acts of kindness, 
generosity and cooperation. 


It is possible that this name may be a corruption of Gargarayana. Gargari is a churn, 
Gargara is churning or a whirlpool or eddy. Ayana is movement, hence the name means the 
churning motion or the movement of a whirlpool. This is exactly how Rahu is. 


30 GU AF: 


om suraraye namah 


8. The enemy (Ari) of the gods (Sura). 


Divinity, religion and thus the ‘gods’ are indicated by Sagittarius, the ninth sign, or the 
ninth house of the Vedic chart. Sagittarius’ enemies (Ari) are seen in the sixth house from it, 
which is Taurus, the exaltation sign of Rahu just referred to (see Rahu 2 and 7). If we say, as 


many scholars believe, that Gemini is the exaltation of Rahu (see Rahu 2), this is also the Bad- 
haka or blocking place for Sagittarius. The blocking place and its associated planets are the 
natural enemies as they tend to oppose what that sign, here Sagittarius, represents. Here, the 
word enemy need not suggest something negative. Different signs represent different points 
of view and they all contribute to our world. This is the standard translation taken in Jyotisha. 
However, Ari can also mean faithful or attached. This shows how Rahu can play the villian or 
the hero as he wishes. 


Xo Aes ATH AH: 
om nilajimUtasamkasaya namah 


9. Like (Samkasha) a blue or dark cloud (Nila Jimuta). 


In English, we speak of being ‘under a dark cloud’ so it is an intuitive concept. Rahu 
can represent scandal, which puts our reputation under a cloud. It also throws a dark cloud 
over clarity of thought. During the cycles of Rahu, one has difficulty seeing clearly. This is a 
consequence of the Tamasic effect but Rahu is worse for this than Saturn. Seeing clearly is a 
function of Sattva as we saw under Jupiter. 


On the other hand, Rahu can give us visions. With the right combinations, these can 
be divine. He can also show us things that come with the dark cloud like collective disasters 
as well as ghosts, aliens, indeed anything that is strange and unknown. The greatest cloud 
to consciousness is fear. It can shut us down if we let it and Rahu is the principal indicator of 
what we fear. 


0 ATS AH: 
om caturbhujaya namah 
10. Four-armed (Chatur-Bhuja). 
The next three names, Rahu 11-13, explain what he has in his hands. 
xo Ug UcHeun 7H: 
om khangakhetakadharine namah 


11. Carrying (Dharin) a sword and a shield. 


Khanga is a sword and Khetaka is a shield. The sword cuts through the web of sins and 
ignorance. It cuts off the head (ego). Rahu can promote egotism often followed by humiliation. 
The higher one’s head rises, the easier it is for him to get a clean stroke in. If we try to fight 
back, we face his shield. 


Ro Alaa eta AH: 


om varadayakahastakaya namah 


12. One hand (Hastaka) is signalling his readiness to give boons (Varadayaka). 


Rahu has one hand free to bless and reward those following the path of goodness and 
7 Highlighters ----------------2-2-- 222 2c eer eee ee eee e eee cee e cnn ene nee nena nee ee ence ene eee: 
truth. When we are gifted with his presence, we should try to honour him and pray for grace. 


He is ready to bless us if we are sufficiently humble and respectful. This mantra could be es- 
pecially helpful because it activates that aspect of his. 


His presence is indicated by fear shaking our hearts. | am reminded of the story of a 
friend who was reaching the top of Kodachadri, a holy mountain in India. As he came over 
the rise, he was faced with a king cobra reared up. The Cobra stood as tall as him. Cobras 
are closely akin to Rahu. He put his hands together in respectful salute, the cobra looked at 
him for a few moments and then left. On that mountain, the power of the Goddess prevents 
conflicts between animals and devotees. When we feel fear, belligerence is not the answer, 


hlighters------------ 22222200222 soos eneee ne erence ceeee ee etree nese 
humbleness and respect is best. Fear indicates the energy of Rahu and Rahu has a hand up 


to bless us if we are fit for it. 


30 Wears AH: 


om sulayudhaya namah 


13. Unconquerable (Ayudha) fighting with a spear (Shula). 


This is in the fourth hand. Shtla also means sharp pains. He can cause the kind 
of distress that seems unbearable. This name shows that he holds a spear. He is actively 
stabbing those who do not surrender at his feet. Whether the pain comes from an ailment, a 
scandal or any kind of humiliation, it offers a chance to find true humbleness. 


Xo Haquyy AH: 


om meghavarnaya namah 


14. The colour (Varna) of a thunder cloud (Megha). 


Rahu, especially if associated with Mercury, can give one an interest in extreme 
weather events. In some cases, a person may even have the ability to control the weather. 


Xo HoOUeasahad AH: 


om krsnadhvajapatakavate namah 


15. His emblem (Patakavan) is a black flag (Krsna Dhvaja). 


Black flags are associated with pirates and terrorists. Historically, they warned of 


cholera onboard a vessel. 


It is said that ‘every cloud has a silver lining’. Krsnadhvaja hints at a very elevated state 
of consciousness. The two nodes, Rahu and Ketu are related to the two highest Chakras 
above even the Crown Chakra. Just as Shri Krishna was born at midnight on a waning Moon, 
so from darkness, truth can shine forth. 


0 CIAUTIPEaTA AA: 
om daksinasamukharathaya namah 


16. His chariot (Ratha) faces (Wukha) the Southern quarter (Dakshinasa). 


South is said to be the direction of Yama, the god of death. In Vedic architecture 
(Vastu), Rahu rules over the South West. This is not considered a favourable direction for a 


Highlighters - 
front door. Tonce s stayed jin such a house @nd many misfortunes fell upon ‘the inh@bitants. Of 


course, there may have been other problems with it. Not everyone with their door facing in 
that direction suffers like that. Still if one has such a door and one is suffering, some Vastu 
remedial measures may be advised. The Southern direction, though not specifically ruled by 
Rahu, is faced by him and is also less suitable for a front door. Some people will never choose 
a South facing front door, but Vastu permits it as long as it is in a very specific part of the 
wall. | once mentioned to Dr B.V. Raman, the great astrologer, the idea that one should not 
have one’s door facing South. He pointed out his family home faced South and all was well, 


generally. 


It is very rare that temples face South but certain forms of the divinity do face that 
direction. Dakshinamurti, Shiva as the great teacher, faces South. That is why there is a 
tradition of sitting facing North in the afternoon meditation to face Him. Ramana Maharishi 


explained that Dakshinamurti meant ‘Dakshina Amurti’ or one who is capable but without 
form. This is the nature of Shiva. When he comes to destroy ignorance, then he can appear 
frightful like Rahu. If Rahu is associated with feminine energy, for example, by being conjoined 
with the Moon or Venus, it can indicate Mother Durga, a fierce looking form of the Goddess. 
She is said to be the most compassionate, only not to our ego. 


Ro Tevie ppc AA: 


om tiksnadamstrakaralakaya namah 


17. Having a gaping mouth (Karalaka) with terrible teeth (Tiksna Damstra). 


This is all part of the terrifying aspect. Not only is he like the head of the cobra with 
poisonous fangs but also the terror of the teeth is clearly seen or felt. This is most strongly 
experienced when a planet is applying to Rahu. Since Rahu is naturally in retrograde motion, 
and the others, apart from Ketu, are usually direct, then it often occurs that when a planet is 
in the same sign as Rahu, they are both moving towards each other. At some point they meet 
and then start to separate. Suppose the other planet is the ruling planet of your Vedic chart. 
As the meeting approaches, one usually feels anxious, whatever the reason one imagines for 
it. Immediately after they meet, one starts to feel easier. Facing those teeth is one of the more 
difficult astrological situations. 


If one is born with such a situation, then one may have to struggle with some addictive 
tendencies. This can be a way of hiding from the fear but there is a space beyond the fear. 
The strong influence of Rahu or Ketu can give one special gifts such as deep insight and 
profound empathy with others and the collective consciousness. One lives with an open door 
to the realms beyond the obvious, the places where scary things live, perhaps ghosts, ghouls, 
extra-terrestrials, lizards and wizards as well as the divine realms, the prophets, the gods and 
the sages who are not limited by the ordinary boundaries of the world. It is Rahu and Ketu’s 
strange and paranormal qualities that make them so fascinating. Most popular movies have a 
major influence of these Grahas. Life would be very dull without them. 


Rahu is associated with the Varaha Avatara of Lord Vishnu. This is the divine boar who 
lifted up the earth when it had sunk beneath the waters. When our life is sinking under the 
onslaught of Rahu’s terribleness, then one remedy is a mantra of Varaha. Being a boar, He has 
terrible teeth so this name points to Him. 


It is interesting to consider the ten great incarnations of Lord Vishnu so we can see the 
extraordinary genius of the ancient sages who gave us these stories. Vishnu is the power that 
sustains so, in Vedic Astrology, He is associated with the benefic planets and houses which 


sustain our fortune. 


The incarnations have a natural sequence of appearance: Matsya, the fish, Kurma, 
the turtle, Varaha, the boar, Narasimha, the man-lion, Vamana, the dwarf, Parashurama, the 
vengeful Brahmin, Budha or Balarama, the apostle of peace, and Rama and Krshna, who 
were both kings. In this, you can see the evolution of animal life on this planet in a nutshell. 
First a fish, then an amphibian, then a mammal followed by something that was part animal 
part human and then a sequence of humans. And we thought we only discovered this evolu- 
tionary sequence quite recently! 


Another level of understanding comes from the assignment of planets to these: Ketu, 
Saturn, Rahu, Mars, Jupiter, Venus, Mercury, the Sun and the Moon respectively. The first 
three are the dire malefics, who cause our animal nature. Then there is Mars, which can be 
very human but if backed into a corner or overcome with anger or greed, quite like an animal. 
The other planets represent various sides of our human personality. No one is purely one 
Graha but one may be more exaggerated in a chart. 


0 WOTHRIACATA AH: 


om Surpakarasanasthaya namah 


18. Seated (Asanastha) on the figure (Akara) of a winnowing basket (Shurpa). 


A winnowing basket is used to separate the chaff from the grain. The mix is tossed in 
the air and the grain falls down while the lighter chaff may blow away. This action (Kara) of 
winnowing signifies Rahu’s role. The planetary cycle (Dasha) of Rahu, which lasts for 18 years, 
is like a continuous winnowing. One cries for a break but it is hardly possible. Still, at the end, 
comes the Dasha of Jupiter. All the good that the winnowing has done to us shines forth. 


In the Vedic chart, Rahu signifies industrial machines. With Venus, it can represent 
powerful and charismatic devices. This was the driving combination in the Vedic chart of 
Steve Jobs. 


xo THA MTAUMTaT AG: 


om gomedhabharanapriyaya namah 


19. Fond of ornaments (Bharana) of the Gomedha gem. 


Here it tells us which gem propitiates Rahu. The Priya at the end indicates that wearing 
this gem will please him and thus should only benefit the user. Treat this gem with great 


respect! 


Gomedha is generally considered to be golden beryl or hessonite garnet. The best 
colour is a beautiful gold, likened to the colour of cow’s (Go) urine. Medha means high intelli- 
gence. Rahu’s influence on the rising sign can give this. 


0 TTNTaTa AG: 


om masapriyaya namah 


20. Fond (Priya) of Masha (beans). 


Masha is commonly known as black gram. This tells us the kind of food to be offered 
or used in the Rahu Puja and for Rahu in the Navagraha Puja. Beans create wind and Rahu is 
very Vata or windy. They are cooked over a long time to soften. This is perhaps why Rahu’s 
cycle is so long. It wears down one’s rigidities until one is soft enough to benefit from the 
Jupiter Dasha. Jupiter follows Rahu Dasha in the Vimshottari Dasha system, the ‘king’ of the 
Dasha systems, which predict how the planets affect us over time. Being Rahu, it would have 
to be a black bean. 


Xo HISATN-Cay AH: 
om kasyaparsinandanaya namah 


21. The son of Kashyapa Rishi. 


Literally, giving delight to him. Nandana is a beautiful word suggesting a joyous flow of 
delight. This is what the child naturally means for a parent, even if he is Rahu! Kashyapa gave 
birth to both gods and demons by his two wives (Sun 6). 


Xo STENT AA: 


om bhujagesSvaraya namah 


22. Identical with Ananta, the divine serpent (Naga) on which Lord Vishnu reclines. The ser- 
pent (Bhujaga) lord (Ishvara). 


The whole universe rests on Lord Vishnu who embodies universal expansion and the 
Lord rests on Ananta, the king of the serpents. Again we see the hint towards the Kundalint 


power, which supports the enlightened consciousness. Rahu may be terrifying but he is not 
9 Highlighters:==":2--s4+242cse-sercesacsseerscnsese 


evil; he is in this sense our ultimate support. It is good to be friends with Rahu and for that we 
S:Mighlighters -5-ssSoc8seAcom sSese se sabes cog ciocin Seo ac saree p ot ars Rapes Seb anna sReeeS-Gee es Sh pats c de Soe eco raas rege ctse tS 
have to be aware that this means accepting in a simple way everything in the universe that we 


fear. This is not about a positive judgment of terror, rape, or abuse. 


When we look up at the stars, we see dots of light that are, in some cases, whole 
galaxies colliding with each other. In this process, many worlds like ours are probably being 
destroyed. If we look with a powerful telescope, we are awed by the beauty of the show. Are 
we crying for the countless creatures being destroyed? We see it is all part of the great cosmic 
dance which will end this world one day. In fact, our world could end quite suddenly, with 
no warning. It would only need a Supernova in this part of our galaxy. The gamma ray burst 
would likely kill every living thing. Coming at the speed of light we might get a few minutes’ 
notice if the scientists spotted the early stages of the explosion. There are so many ways 
we could die in the next few minutes. That is why we are fortunate to have Vedic Astrology 
because it can give some assurance that life will be of a certain length. It shows us that there 


is a plan, the cosmic dance is well choreographed, not randomly cruel. 


You wil not die, if it is not your time to die. An airliner crossing Siberia at 30,000 feet 
broke up for some reason. The plane and the people fell to the ground. One man survived. 
The trees and the snow cushioned his fall. The story in the Old Testament of the Bible about 
Sodom is very pertinent today. Whatever were the sins of the Sodomites, and the scriptures 
give various accounts including excessive cruelty and greed, God decided that it was unbear- 
able and the city would be destroyed. Abraham begged God to spare the city and God said 
he would if it contained at least 50 good people. Abraham managed to reduce the demand 
to 10, but still only one could be found: Abraham’s nephew Lot. Lot was asked to leave and 
the city was destroyed. When one looks at the level of cruelty today, for example, to animals 
in factory farms, one wonders how we have escaped so far. Scientists tell us that the effect 
we have had on the planet will cause the extinction of up to half of all species over the next 


50 years. 


There must be a few exceptionally good people in every place. The Divine Will is clearly 
raising up more and dispatching them here and there to help the people. While greed marches 
on, the effort to purify the world consciousness is moving into higher gear. Nothing else can 
save us. Changing the type of light bulbs is good but if the minds do not become purer, it will 
not help much. 


0 SoH Aaa Aa: 


om ulkapatayitre namah 


23. A collective disaster (/t/)) caused or indicated by the fall of a meteor (Ulkapata). One who 


causes the fall of meteors. 


While the sight of a meteor is often considered an omen of some significant event, 
sometimes highly auspicious, larger meteors are amongst the most destructive of phenom- 
ena. Every so often, one hits the earth causing great devastation. A major strike can contrib- 
ute to mass extinctions. The very existence of all life is threatened. No wonder flashes of light 
in the sky were signs of dread as well as wonder. On the other hand, many scientists believe 
that life or its precursors came to earth from other solar systems carried by meteors. 


That meteors were considered dreadful may indicate some collective memory of 
tragedy associated with meteor strikes. Iti is a plague, collective calamity, or it could indicate 
travelling or living in foreign lands. In ancient times, having to go away from one’s home land 
was considered a misfortune. Whatever we think about meteors, the point here is that Rahu 
can act as an omen suggesting such things. For example, if a question is asked, the Vedic 
astrologer may draw a chart and note the key influential planets. If Rahu is on the Ascendant 
at the time of the question, some shock, calamity, displacement or eventful change may 
occur in the life of the questioner. That is not always to be considered bad. 


For an individual, this position of Rahu may indicate living abroad or an awakening 
after some crisis. While challenging, ultimately it may prove a blessing. 


This is one of the mantras that are better contemplated than chanted. 


Bo Ulett AH: 


om suline namah 


24. The one with a spear (Shdu/in). 


The Shula was used for impaling criminals. That means that whatever crimes we have 
committed, Rahu comes from time to time and stabs us in various ways. We may be angry 
and think that it is unfair or we may feel cleansed and thus grateful. Criminals who confess 
and show remorse, are generally treated with leniency. We should remember that. The times 
when Rahu crosses key points in our chart are the moments most likely to trigger such expe- 
riences. However, it depends what role he has to play in one’s life. His nature is the same but 
sometimes he has to give great gifts. 


xo TATaura Aa: 


om nidhipaya namah 


25. The guardian (Pa) of the treasury (Nidhi). 


This could also mean the abode of the air or wind (Pa). Hence the connection with 
Vata, the windy element as well as storms. Another meaning is the protector of those en- 
dowed with good qualities. 


The treasury is the nectar of immortality that is reserved for those who have surren- 
dered to truth or, in other words, found true humility. All treasures are guarded, the greater 
the treasure the fiercer the guardian. That is why Rahu guards immortality. Rahu’s presence is 
known because we feel fear. When we approach the doors of heaven, as it were, they will be 
guarded and most souls will turn away. Success depends on never letting fear tell you what is 
true. Mars people may ignore fear out of sheer courage or even recklessness. Jupiter people 
do so out of wisdom. The latter approach is best but the courage of Mars can help. That is 
why Yogis have a powerful influence of Mars in their charts. 


Xo HOUTA US AH: 


om krsnasarparaje namah 


26. The king (Raja) of dark coloured snakes (Krsna Sarpa). 


The king of the snakes is said to be a beautiful blue colour. | saw such a one once, he 
was magnificent. | was on a boat ride on the Rhine. Maharishi Mahesh Yogi loved boat rides 
and he would often take a group of us for a few hours cruise. This time, some leading physi- 
cists were invited and there was a discussion about Unified Field Theory. At one point a huge 
blue Naga appeared in front of Maharishi, standing tall facing him. The Nagas are the celestial 
progenitors of the serpent races. They are said to have deep insight and vast knowledge and 
are marked by a jewel on the forehead. This is symbolic for the awakened third-eye that sees 
into the heart of things. According to the Yogic wisdom, the awakened Kundalini, the serpent 
power within, opens the third eye as it rises to the forehead. Some people, who have a pow- 
erful connection between Rahu or Ketu and a planet in their birth chart, exhibit experiences 
that resonate with the stories of the Nagas. In the chart of Maharishi Mahesh Yogi there is a 
powerful conjunction between the Sun and Rahu aspected by Jupiter, showing a connection 
with the king of the Nagas (see also Rahu 22). 


In one of the Vedic texts, it tells how the snakes were born to Diti, the mother of the 
divisive forces, and how she quarrelled with Aditi, her co-wife, the mother of the constructive 
forces. They made an agreement for a certain competition and Ditl used the dark colour of her 
children to win through deceptive means. Aditi and her son were reduced to slaves and put to 


much trouble but good triumphed in the end. So we may infer that the dark snakes referred 
to here, are those that are involved in deceit — the snakes in the grass! That is, under certain 
circumstances, Rahu’s influence can make a person take to deceptive and poisonous works. 


We can draw a connection to the Kundalini energy. Shri Krishna is famous for saving 
his people from a deadly snake that was spoiling their water supply. He danced on its head. 
This is how divinity overcomes deceit. The Kundalini energy rises up like a cobra and ulti- 
mately reaches the crown. Lord Krishna stands above that in the highest Chakra and dances 
on it leaving the consciousness crystal clear and pure. 


3 TAMSATATAMS TATA AH: 
om viSajvalavrta'syaya namah 


27. An orifice (Asya) surrounded by poisonous (Visha) flames. 


His jaws or mouth are covered or encompassed (Vsta) with a fire (Jvala), which is 
venomous in character. It can also mean one whose mouth conceals a poisonous fire. We feel 
afraid when facing the jaws. 


Those with a strong influence of Rahu on the Ascendant or the second house of 
speech may struggle to speak sweetly. Many factors can affect this. For example, the Moon 
battles Rahu. The Moon is both a watery planet as well as the embodiment of compassion. If 
the Moon conjoins Rahu, then the Moon should be strengthened. Wearing pearls can help. 


There is a powerful form of the Mother Goddess Durga called Jvalamukhi (fire 
mouthed). Her worship is an antidote for the experience of the negative side of this aspect 
of Rahu. Worshipping Her amounts to facing one’s fears. The fear is great but we can 
overcome it if we take the attitude of the child who has complete confidence in the power 
of her mother to save her. The sages harnessed this positive psychology to rescue us from 
our difficulties. Some think the Vedic approach is about worshipping a multitude of idols. In 
reality, the mind has multiple modes with which we struggle and the sages gave both specific 
and general remedies. They taught that the universe is unified and diversified at the same time 
everywhere. 


Xo TMU AG: 
om ardhaSariraya namah 


28. Half-bodied (Ardha Sharira). 


In Rahu 4, we spoke of how Rahu and Ketu came to be as two parts of one original 
body. It is interesting how often ghosts and ghouls are depicted as being bodiless or 


headless. 


30 WAAAY AH: 


om satravapradaya namah 


29. Giving (Prada) enmity (Shatrava). 


This is why Rahu is the primary agent of divorce and separation. When two people 
fall out, they want to separate. Rahu’s transit causes conflict, even between those with deep 
bonds. Thus, when we see Rahu is transiting a key relationship house like the seventh house 
of marriage or the seventh from the Moon, we should try to overlook sources of conflict and 
let the transit pass. A temporary separation for some routine reason can sometimes help. The 
worst effect may come between Rahu entering the sign in which the house cusp falls and the 


conjunction with the cusp. After that, there is usually some relief. 


30 Tae Ua AG: 
om ravindubhikaraya namah 


30. Causing fear (Bhikara) in the luminaries, the Sun (Ravi) and the Moon (Indu). 


This name alerts us that the fear generating effect of Rahu is stronger when the asso- 
ciation is with these two Grahas. This is the nature of an eclipse. This also explains why the 
authorities, which are indicated by the two royal planets, are so concerned about turbulence 
or revolt. This fear can make them very controlling. If we find ourselves over managing things 
due to a feeling of fear or insecurity, we should try to find a space of trust or faith, as this alone 


can manage the fear. 


Xo DEAS AH: 


om chayasvarupine namah 


31. Whose form (Rapa) is a shadow (Chhaya). 


Rahu and Ketu are not true Grahas as they cannot be seen. Hence, they are called 


shadow Grahas. This also makes them very much affected by whatever influence is on them. 


If they are associated with Jupiter, for example, Jupiter suffers but Rahu or Ketu will give 
many good results. For example, if Jupiter promises wealth, then it is most likely to come dur- 
ing the cycle of the associated node. 


0 HISAGHY AH: 


om kathinangakaya namah 


32. One who resorts to cruel and ruthless expedients. 


Anga can mean an expedient. It also indicates the body or limbs. Here its use tends 
to emphasize that Rahu is the very embodiment of Kafthina — hard hearted, cruel, inexorable, 
inflexible, sharp, violent and intense. This reminds me of one of the most remarkable experi- 
ences | have had. | slipped into a space of consciousness where all the sorrow and all the joy 
in the universe was welcome. It was as if | was bearing every possible misery and yet there 
was no weight, no problem. It was a state of Grace, a profound blessing. 


The universe has to have all possibilities including even this tendency of Rahu. Taken 
to an extreme, it causes so many disturbances that it threatens survival but if humans had 
none of this capacity, one would not be able to wittingly break even a blade of grass. 


Xo GISOHOSCHT AH: 


om dvisacchakracchedakaya namah 


33. Breaking (Chhedaka) the host of the enemy. 


The subtle meaning is more interesting. Dvisha indicates duality or the conviction that 
one is separate from everything else. Chakra has multiple meanings. It is the seat of that du- 
ality in the Muladhara. It is the weapon, the discus that one sees in the hand of Lord Vishnu. It 
discriminates between truth and illusion by cutting the roots of ignorance. Ignorance is rooted 
in dishonesty. Honesty means trusting one’s inner knowing rather than one’s belief systems. 
Honesty has no element of judgment. It finds no fault. To be totally honest with oneself cuts 
right to the core and opens the cognition of non-difference. 


One can see that Rahu indicates separation. He divides, breaks in two. More funda- 
mentally, he is breaking the root of the misconception of duality, which is where the illusion of 
separation is seated. 


The Dvisha (2) Chakra (6) can also indicate the heart. As 2 x 6 is 12, it can indicate the 


entire zodiac or again the entire field of our life or worldly life. He is breaking that. Rahu is 
3 Highlighters 


primarily responsible for divorce; he breaks our hearts and the structures we have built in our 
3. Highllahters’25-""2sec--se05 are cence aes cre teaeee Ger h Sh sash et Phas nee reso aeons = Fs sete een IRy ce Mee PeEIC NE CREA Taras 
lives. By doing so, he offers us a chance to see more clearly what is real. If we can see what 


30 OhUcHeala AA: 
om karalasyaya namah 


34. Having terrible jaws. 


Karala Asya means a gaping mouth It is wide open. His jaws are pointed or uneven 
and his mouth is huge. How is one to escape? All our attempts to flee from the experience of 
Rahu fail. Only one who has simply and freely fallen into his mouth has become free from fear. 
Fighting or hiding is ultimately doomed to failure. Once swallowed, all fear dissolves. After a 
planet comes into exact conjunction with Rahu and starts to separate, the anxiety, which may 
have been very intense, passes. 


xo TAHUA AA: 
om bhayamkaraya namah 


35. Causing (Kara) fear (Bhaya). 


In Saturn 107, it was explained that fear arises from a feeling of separation. This is Rahu's root issue. A sense of 
separation comes with human birth. This leads us to seek union with others and with God. In Jyotisha, God for us 
is seen through the placement of Jupiter. Thus Rahu and Jupiter represent a path. Rahu takes us towards Jupiter 
and this is why some of the best people are those whose soul is marked by Rahu. They have no pretensions to 
being perfect and try hard to improve. A fine example is Pope Francis. His AtmaKaraka (Sun 12) is Rahu and is with 
Jupiter in Jupiter's sign Sagittarius. It fits his humble holiness perfectly. The flipside is that Jupiter AtmakKaraka can 
slide towards Rahu so great care must be taken to avoid rising egotism. 


30 PHU AT: 


om krurakarmane namah 


36. One of cruel or formidable (Krura) deeds (Karma). 


This can include a wide range from small acts of selfishness to rape and abuse. It all 
depends on Rahu’s strength and associations in the chart. Being friends with Rahu is the 
greatest challenge but it is necessary for the astrologer. In India, astrologers are called Gra- 
hamitra, the friend of the planets. It takes a very big heart. 


Rahu gives great intelligence for extracting benefit from the environment. Mankind’s 
dominance over this planet and the remarkable progress we have made is thanks to that. Is 
clearing a forest to plant crops a cruel act? Clearly big fish eating small fish is natural. It is all 
a matter of degree and what we think is acceptable. Rahu will kill animals for food, Mercury 
will not. We all have different attitudes depending on the arrangement of the Grahas when we 
are born. 


0 THEI AH: 


om tamorupaya namah 


37. His form (Rapa) is darkness. 


Tamas can include not taking proper care or being uncaring. One excellent remedy 
4 Highlighters: ------------------ 
for Rahu problems is to volunteer to help people who appear very different. This could 


include immigrants, tefugees or people of a different. skin colour or ethnic group who are 


disadvantaged. 


ee eee tet een 


Xo FABIA AA: 
om syamatmane namah 


38. Of the nature (Afman) of a cloud (Shyama), obscuring. 


Shyama is a beautiful dark blue colour. It is also a name for Lord Krishna, whose dark 
beauty bewitches the whole world. Rahu, like Kala (time), is just an agency of the will of God. 
The Bhagavad Gita is the teachings of Lord Krishna to Arjuna on the Mahabharata battlefield. 
In the beginning, Arjuna is gripped with concern that he is about to kill many noble souls, 
teachers and relatives and bring human society into chaos. Krishna shows him that it is des- 
tiny or time that is going to bring an end to all the warriors and that Kala is His form. ‘Be just 
an agent’, he says to Arjuna. 


Peacefulness comes when we let the natural law manage what it is anyway managing, 
the whole performance of life. That means upholding our duty and answering the call of 
compassion. Essentially, just being a witness to it all. In the process of dying, when coming to 
know that their time is up, many souls relax and start to shine. In this way, without being lazy 
or dull, we can truly find peace. 


Science and the great religions say that the light of life was born out of a primordial 
darkness. This name reminds us of that source. 


Xo Alecteda Aa: 


om nilalohitaya namah 


39. Blue (Nila) and red (Lohita). 


He is blue like Saturn and red like Mars, both Tamas and Rajas. It is said that both 
these colours are associated with the marriage ritual and the loss of virginity?. Rahu is very 
deeply involved with marriage. Rahu’s cycle usually causes marriage and frequently the 
position of Rahu in the chart shows the bond. For example, the Rahu in one person’s chart 
conjoins the Moon in the other's. This causes a kind of mutual addiction, which is rather es- 
sential to an abiding relationship. 


ao Tatied AA: 


om kiritine namah 


40. Wearing a crown (Kirita). 


Kingship is certainly the Sun but Rahu is the great strategist and that is important for 
rulership. There is a dictum that royal Yogas need the support of a node and there is some 
statistical evidence for this*. Rahu’s influence can raise a person to a high position. In the as- 
trological texts, Rahu signifies the ministers of the cabinet. 


30 ATAAGATa AH: 
om nilavasanaya namah 


41. Wearing blue (Nila) clothes (Vasana). 


Nila can indicate the blue sapphire. This is the gem for Saturn but could help for Rahu 
as they are so akin. Nila is associated with antimony as also poison. In the story of the churn- 
ing of the milk ocean by the gods and demons (Rahu 4), the first product of the churning was 
a terrible poison. This burnt everything until swallowed by Lord Shiva on everyone's request. 
It turned his throat blue, hence his name Nilakantha. 


This story embodies the eternal truth that when one seeks nectar, one first has to bear 
poison. Before being healed, the sickness has to come up and out. There is no short cut but 
the inner silence Shiva represents is the one that can bear the poison. After the poison was 


absorbed, the goddess Lakshmi emerged. She rules over wealth and all desirable and auspi- 
cious things. Later came the Amrita, the nectar of immortality. 


30 WAAC AG: 


om Sanisamantavartmagaya namah 


42. Moving (Ga) on the path (Vartma) defined (Samanta) by Saturn (Shani). 


Saturn is associated with Dharma Raja. He is the deity who sees everything and 
defines the rewards and punishments due. Rahu, like Saturn, carries this out. That is how he 
sometimes gives and sometimes takes away. He cannot deviate from the natural law. 


30 AUSTAauTA Aa: 


om candalavarnaya namah 


43. Representing outcasts (Chandala Varna). 


An outcast is one who has crossed some boundary. When Jupiter is conjoined in the 
chart with Rahu, it is called Guru Chandala yoga. As Jupiter represents Gurus or teachers, it 
can indicate experiences of teachers whose behaviour appears to be corrupt or deceptive. 
On the other hand, the teacher may be from a foreign country or have an especially broad- 
minded view. Rahu represents people who break boundaries and this includes those who are 
open to ideas from other cultures and traditions. 


Not long ago, India had many experts who had extraordinary knowledge. Often, these 
great savants did not find students to pass on the knowledge and have thus seen the end of 
their lineage. Modern professions have become more lucrative than the traditional arts and 
sciences. However, there has been a lot of interest from abroad in the traditional knowledge 
so a few Brahmins who were willing to teach foreigners have found some students. We do not 
know what has been lost but the whole world has gained from the dissemination of the wis- 
dom beyond the traditional boundaries. 


Rahu can indicate people who break laws, human and natural. It can also give out- 
of-the-box thinkers who can make a very positive contribution. Those who have to bring 
together countries or different ethnic or religious groups that are in conflict must have a strong 
Rahu. 


x0 FAAATaA AH: 


om asvyrksabhavaya namah 


44. Born (Bhava) in Ashwini Nakshatra (Ashvyrksa). 


It is said in the ancient astronomical text Surya Siddhanta, that at the beginning of the 
solar system, Rahu was placed at zero degrees of Aries. Ashwini is the first Nakshatra or lunar 
mansion in Aries so this would be the place of his birth. It could also mean that his Bhava or 
nature is like Ashwini. It is a star of healing; the Ashwins were the physicians to the gods, and 
those with planets in Ashwini often take to healing work. The other star much associated with 
healing is Shatabhishaj in Aquarius, which is ruled by Rahu. From this we can see why Rahu 
is so connected to healing, especially pharmacology. Shatabhishaj means the 100 healing 
herbs and is associated with the time of year when the stored rice was wrapped in herbs to 
enhance its nutritional value. 


Aries is a place of new beginnings and is about expansion and breaking out from the 
shell or womb. These are functions of Rahu. 


Xo AVYATY AH: 


om mesabhavaya namah 


45. Born (Bhava) in Mesa, Aries. 


This and name 44 show Rahu is especially potent in Aries and its first Nakshatra. When 
| was writing about this name, Rahu had recently entered Aries and immediately the level of 
violence in the Middle East increased. | had expected this because in Aries, Rahu is mingling 
with the energy of Mars and when the energy of Mars joins the agitation of Rahu it can be 
quite terrible, if provoked. However, great care must be taken to assess their relative strength 
and the associated auspicious factors. One should not jump to any conclusion just because 
these two are seen together in a chart. 


These names give another view on this combination. Mesa is the head and Rahu is the 
hooded serpent, which obviously suggests the brain as it spreads out at the top of the nerves 
running up the spine. This connects Rahu to intelligence, the human specialty of being able to 
solve problems, innovate and maximize our benefit from our environment. This is why Rahu is 
the marker of the living compared to the inanimate and is most developed in homo sapiens. 
For this and other reasons, it is included in the significators of the experience of living beings, 


called in Sanskrit the Chara Karakas. The best known is the AtmaKaraka (Rahu 35). 


x0 WraacHeday Aq: 


om Sanivatphaladaya namah 


46. Giving results (Phajla) like (Vat) Saturn, Shani. 


Both Saturn and Rahu can give grief and separation and, in due course, the same 
profound blessings. They are both windy Grahas and together represent the ‘storm’ yoga 
or combination. In astrology, the world is divided into 12 houses each representing certain 
areas of our life. Wherever they mutually influence gets well shaken helping us to change and 
evolve. The actual outcome depends on many factors. 


so ITA AH: 


om suraya namah 


47. The powerful one. 


Shura is a powerful hero who is hard to oppose. This name also applies to Mars (100), 
who is said to be the general of the army of the gods while Rahu leads the army of the 
demons. Mars is brave, skilled in weapons and brilliant tactically but Rahu is smarter and has 
no problem with any cunning strategy, even if treacherous. Every one of us has both these en- 
ergies, only their relationships and associations differ. That is why we should not jump to any 
judgment of others. As the Holy Bible says, ‘Let he who has not sinned cast the first stone.’ 


Xo seas AG: 


om apasavyagataye namah 


48. Moving in a retrograde manner (Apasavya Gati). 


Even though the true or actual position of the Rahu Ketu axis is occasionally moving 
in the same direction as the Sun, mostly it moves in the opposite direction. In India, the 
traditional astrologers only use the mean position: the motion without allowing for temporal 
variations. This is always backwards relative to the Sun’s motion. 


This retrograde movement is very important in all the predictions. Rahu and Ketu move 
like a truck going the wrong way on a freeway causing consternation to other drivers. Retro- 


gression focuses on the consequences of past actions and delays progress while these are 
being processed. 


We see the existence of Rahu and Ketu were recognized from a very early era. This 
indicates a sophisticated understanding of astronomy as they are not observable points but 
can only be inferred from the observation of the Sun and the Moon, especially the timing of 
eclipses over a long period. Astronomy at a high level is seen in all the ancient civilizations, 
driven first by calendric needs and then by the growing science of astrology. In China, two 
court astrologers Hsi and Ho are said to have been executed for failing to predict an eclipse. 
Since the crown was the sponsor of astronomers and astrologers the incentive to understand 
the nodes was very real. 


30 SURRTHUA AH: 


om uparagakaraya namah 


49. Causing (Kara) eclipses and collective calamities (Uparaga). 


Rahu always has a connection to the collective. It can give someone a great empathy 
for what other people are feeling. | have seen this in healers and group work leaders. It can 
even make one sensitive to remote traumas happening to many people. 


Rahu’s motion can coincide with major collective events. Mars and Rahu conjoined 
and opposite can trigger major accidents or terror events. The Nakshatra and position of the 
Moon is important. On September 11, 2001, an extreme example occurred where Mars met 
Ketu in Mala Nakshatra. Mula is ruled by Nirriti, the goddess of death and rebirth. Opposite 
this, the Moon in a Nakshatra or Mars approached Rahu. Very serious loss of life on this 
day was expected. There were many strange and unexplained things about what happened, 
which is the nature of the nodes. They rule over terrible events as well as cover-ups and the 
conspiracy theories they spawn. 


On August 29, 2005 at 6:10am, Hurricane Katrina came ashore in Louisiana. Rahu 
was passing through Pisces, the sign related to the ocean. Major disturbances had been 
predicted. On that day, the significator of water, Venus, and the ruler of Pisces, Jupiter, con- 
joined Ketu. 


30 MAQASSaaACH AH: 


om somasuryacchavivimardakaya namah 


50. Completely grinding away (Vimardaka) the beauty (Chhavi) of the Sun (Sdrya) or the Moon 
(Soma). 


This is a very poetic or dramatic take on a total eclipse, where the Sun is eaten away 
until it totally disappears. This mantra cannot be done without great consciousness. If we 
feel deeply, then this can open an ever-increasing compassion for those who feel their light 
is fading. Ultimately, every ageing being knows this sacrifice. One also knows that it will lead 
to anew dawn. Within the hiding and revealing of the light is a perpetual truth that cannot be 
eclipsed. 


Conjunctions of the Sun or the Moon with Rahu can be challenging, regardless of 
whether it is during the time of an eclipse. There can be a feeling (Moon) or deep internal 
sense (Sun) of affliction. This initiates a search for a remedy. Hence, those born at these 
moments are often very profound. Eclipse like combinations are found in the charts of saints 
as well as people with real difficulties. If the remedy adopted is alcohol or drugs, then this can 
be quite damaging but hopefully it is just a stage in the search. After all, the light has not dis- 
appeared, it only appears like that for a brief period. Seeking help can be very useful. 


My experience has repeatedly shown me that there is no eclipse even though the 
internal state that feels like that is a very real experience. It is a hangover from some past 
experience and will be worn away eventually. How can this process be speeded up? | do not 
pretend to know what will help everybody but | will mention a few things that | have learnt 
over the years. 


Psychologists have found out that when we remember a trauma, then the chemistry 
that was maintaining that memory is dissolved and re-deposited. If the memory arises in a 
positive environment, then much less of the echo of the trauma is re-deposited. Experiments 
have shown that, in the right therapeutic situation, certain currently illegal drugs help the 
release. As of the time of writing, the US government has just approved trials for this treat- 
ment modality for PTSD patients. 


If we remember something bad, feel bad and perhaps get worked up, all of that is then 
stored along with some part of the memory. Next time we remember it, it is not the original 
memory but the newly created memory that arises. That is why people’s memory of things 
changes over time and why, if one is troubled by feelings that are tagged to certain memories, 
then the right therapist may be able to help. What one needs is to be able to relive those 
experiences in a loving and supportive environment. The ideal is if one can completely relax 
as one reviews the old traumas. 


In the Yoga Sutras of Patafijali, it explains that the gross experiences, with all their 
trauma, are erased by subtle experience. This subtle experience refers to the deep blissful 


and relaxing experiences induced by Yogic processes like meditation. For this, a competent 
guide is advised. If the trauma level is high it is best to start with simple Yoga Asanas. 


So Neyo aTaENTs AH: 


om nilapuspaviharaya namah 


51. Enjoying (Vihara) blue flowers (Nila Puspa). 


This is the kind of flowers to be offered in Rahu Puja: Preferably of a dark blue. One 
could also infer it to mean that he enjoys the expanding darkness; for example, as the eclipse 
of the Sun sets in. People have always been afraid of solar eclipses but there is a strange 
fascination with them. This is our ambiguous attitude to the gateway to the other world, the 
unknown, causing fear and fascination. 


xo TE MyTy AA: 
om grahaSresthaya namah 


52. The best (Shrestha) of the Grahas. 


Many will be surprised to see this name. However, Graha means to grasp and none 
of the others grasp as effectively as Rahu. It is the primary cause of all addictive behaviour. 
Research has found that young women need less than one cigarette to start showing signs 
of addiction. Young men need only a few. Once we are grasped, it can be a lifetime struggle 
to be free. Suggest to someone that he leaves something that has grasped him and he often 
becomes angry or defensive. It controls to the extent of using one’s own emotions to protect 
its power over one. We all have something of this in us. 


Shrestha has many meanings. These include the most auspicious and the most beau- 
tiful. In the right placement, Rahu can give tremendous charisma, more than other Grahas. 
Most celebrities benefit from this. 


30 TRAYS AH: 
om astamagrahaya namah 


53. Amongst the Grahas, Rahu is the eighth (Asfama). 


This tells us that the number eight is important. Rahu is very much like the eighth house 


in the Vedic chart, the place of the consequences of our past mistakes. Astrology is associ- 
ated with the eighth house because it shows us what we have brought into this life. If we had 
been entirely pure, we would not have had to come here. Even though we will enjoy certain 
fruits of our past good deeds, indicated mainly by the ninth house as well as the fifth, we do 
not consult others about the goodies that fall from the heavens. Only when we fear losing 
them, fail to gain them or have some other kind of trouble, do we think of taking some advice 
from the wise or the learned. In this way, the eighth house and Rahu drive us in a very healthy 
direction. This could be another reason why Rahu is the best as mentioned in the last name. 


Since Rahu is not one of the seven visible Grahas, we might wonder where in the 
weekday list to put him. This makes it clear that Rahu comes after Shani. This is important for 
many subtle calculations taught in the Jaimini Scholar programs. The eighth sign is Scorpio 
where Rahu is considered by many scholars to be weak. It is a difficult placement. Rahu is 
associated with Mother Durga especially when associated with the Moon or Venus and the 
beginning of Scorpio is the weakest place for the Moon. What this means is that if we are 
troubled by Rahu, we can pray to Her for redemption. 


Xo HaKTATACETa AH: 
om kabandhamatradehaya namah 


54. His body (Deha) is measured (Matra) from the headless trunk. 


Kabandha is the headless trunk. What remains is the head, which is Rahu. However, 
we can also interpret Kabandha as a vast space. Then this is the measure of his body. This is 
how Rahu can give vastness. With the right planetary combinations, he can give unbounded 


consciousness. 


Rahu is an energy of expansion but not a form of expansion that can be controlled. 
He becomes vast without consulting us. Hence, it is the principal marker of cancer and 
epidemics. Aside from this, his expansion can sometimes give great benefits or expand our 
consciousness if we are able to go with the flow. 


so UQapaleart A: 
om yatudhanakulodbhavaya namah 


55. Born (Udbhava) in the family (Kula) of the race of the Yatudhanas. 


The Yatudhanas were a race of ‘demonic’ beings. They represent the animal passions 


in humans. When we enter a period ruled by Rahu, we feel the pressure of our desire in- 
creasing. We easily get entrapped in worldliness and our wants and needs torment us. This is 
Rahu’s principal torture, especially through the sex hormones. Doing a mantra like this is an 
exercise in facing our trouble and must be done with an open heart and careful attention. 


Xo TTACACATATY AH: 


om govindavarapatraya namah 


56. The container (Patra) of the Grace of the Lord (Govinda Vara). 


This is such a beautiful name and may surprise some readers. Those who receive the 
touch of the Lord, even if it is of His weapon, are most blessed. Lord Vishnu in the form of 
Mohirt, first gave Rahu the nectar of immortality, the Soma or Amrita, and then cut off his 
head with His divine weapon. Thus, he was twice blessed and is worthy of respect. 


30 CASA WAPHTA AA: 


om devajatipravistakaya namah 


57. He entered into (Pravishtaka) the race of the gods (Devajati). 


This name tells us that Rahu is divine by birth or he became one of the divine race by 
the blessing received from the Lord as just described in name 56. The characteristic of the 
gods is that they are immortal by drinking the Soma. Rahu received a few drops by deceitfully 
entering the line-up of the gods. 


Humans are far from divinity when following the path of the Yatudhanas (name 55), but 
Rahu’s connection to risen Kundalini can promote us so we can enjoy the nectar of immor- 
tality like the gods. All we have to do is loose our head, the ego, like Ketu by the grace of the 
Lord. 


So HUF AH: 


om kruraya namah 


58. Cruel (Krira). 


Manipulation and cruelty go together. Cruelty breeds fear and fear can breed cruelty. 
Cruelty can only arise in a hardened heart and a hard heart cannot feel joy. It is the worst 


prison and the only way out is to give up all cruelty. Otherwise, the thickness of the bars only 
increases. It is a hell, but one that each person holds the key to in his or her own hand. People 
commit cruel acts to maintain their status but they cannot enjoy all that that status brings 
because the ability to feel sweetness recedes more and more. It would be a better world if this 
was explained to the children. This name challenges us to feel compassion for those who are 
trapped in the pit of cruelty. Wherever we are in life, we can open our hearts by acts of service 
and kindness especially to those beyond our normal circle. 


Xo TWA AH: 


om ghoraya namah 


59. Awful. 


Ghora covers many English words like horrible, frightful, violent, vehement, venerable 
and sublime. It is also a name of Lord Shiva, as the destroyer. It can be used as a mantra 
because every name of Shiva is auspicious. If we do a mantra with a spirit of devotion, it 
reveals the truth. It is our attitude that makes it auspicious. If we can honour the divinity in 
Rahu, then it is also auspicious. 


Xo WAATATA AG: 


om Sanermitraya namah 


60. Saturn’s friend (Mitra). 


This is the third name emphasizing the link with Saturn. It also tells us about their 
relationship. Little is mentioned in the Jyotisha texts about the relationships of Rahu and Ketu 
with the other Grahas. We have seen above that Rahu is the enemy of the luminaries. Now 
we see a friend. 


30 IppTHAa AH: 


om sukramitraya namah 


61. Venus’ friend (Mitra). 


From these two names (60, 61), we could conclude that Rahu would be less difficult 
for those whose charts are ruled by Saturn or Venus and its conjunctions with these Grahas 
would be less afflictive for them. This would be because Venus and Saturn would have more 


understanding of Rahu’s motivations. However, both Venus Rahu and Saturn Rahu conjunc- 
tions can be challenging. For example, Venus Rahu conjunctions can indicate relationship 
difficulties but it is a powerful combination for charisma, such as in the charts of Elvis Presley 
and Aishwarya Rai. 


Xo SATaUa Aa: 


om agocaraya namah 


62. Invisible (Agochara). Uncontrollable. 


Rahu and Ketu represent all those things which are beyond the range of our ordinary 
senses. This could include the infrared (Ketu) and ultraviolet (Rahu) as well as everything that 
we call paranormal. 


xo A WeTaMera AA: 


om mane gangasnanadatre namah 


63. When placed in the tenth house (Mana), Rahu can give (Datr) a bath (Snana) in the 
Ganges. 


Perhaps we are surprised to find that Rahu, when in the tenth house of status and 
action, can lead to a devotional and purifying experience. | have found this is true in practice 
in charts | have seen and it is a well-known dictum in India. 


Mana, the tenth house is the place of karma, our self-promotional action. In the course 
of this, we may commit some selfish acts. Such an act is one, after doing which, we feel a 
little ashamed or prone to make excuses or harden our heart: ‘| had no choice’, etc. Wherever 
there is a cloud of secrecy, there are selfish deeds being hidden. One victim is our own heart 
that has lost its cleanness and can no longer rejoice in the joy of life. This is a price that far 
exceeds all the gold in the world but, by the time most humans realize this, it is too late. So 
we seek some remedy. Confessing our sins is very helpful. Another common way to seek 
healing is to go on a pilgrimage. Many people believe that certain places have sacred power 
and can cleanse. In India, the prime place of pilgrimage is the river Ganges, which is said to 
wash away all our sins. 


| have often bathed in the Ganga and always found Her indescribably soothing. Once 
| went to the great city of Shiva, Varanasi (Benares). The river was so full of pollution that it 
took five days before | fully immersed myself. The Grace | experienced showed me that the 


pollution had acted as a way of discouraging me from that experience. | am, though, most 
gratedul that the Indian Government is so committed to cleaning the river. 


There is some evidence that the Ganges water is actually different from other river 
waters. Scientific studies going back to the gth century show that ‘cholera microbes died 
within three hours in Ganga water, but continued to thrive in distilled water even after 48 
hours’. Also sailors have long noticed that Ganges water taken on at Hooghly, one of the 
dirtiest river mouths, lasts for weeks, while water taken on at other ports around the world 
only lasts for days?. My uncle was a merchant ship’s captain and | remember him explaining 
this to me. 


xo TANS WAAGIAM AA: 


om svagrahe prabaladhyadaya namah 


64. In the first house, Rahu gives (Da) tremendous power (Prabaladhya). 


Svagrahe means ‘in that situation where it has grasped the self’. This means an 
association with some indicator of the self such as the first house (the Ascendant), the Sun 
and the AtmaKaraka (soul indicator, see Sun 12). In all these cases, the person can become a 
master controller, which can mean a powerful leader. For example, President Obama has his 
Atmakaraka with Rahu as does President Trump. 


Svagraha can mean his own sign. This is Aquarius and some scholars say Virgo too. 
Perhaps this could also apply to Gemini and Taurus since they are strong places for Rahu. If 
the Ascendant sign happens to be one of these with Rahu in it, then it is especially powerful. 
In one text it says that if Rahu is in Gemini in the first house, it removes all afflictions. In the 
context of a sequence of names giving results in different houses, the reference to the first 
house is the main idea. 


xo UES Aaa AF: 


om sadgrahe'nyabaladhrte namah 


65. In the place of truth (Sadgraha), Rahu gains (Dhrt) unusual strength (Anya Bala). 


One meaning of Graha is a house and the houses related to truth are the Dharma 
houses: the first, fifth and ninth with the ninth house being the strongest. Dharma literally 
means that which upholds life. Part of it is duty especially in the sense of the family and so- 


ciety’s traditions and our place in them. If one is a parent, then proper care for the children is 


a natural duty as is doing one’s work in a careful and responsible way. Supporting the nation, 
as called upon, and caring for the survival of the whole ecosphere are also natural duties. The 
Dharma houses are related to self-realization and religion in its true or spiritual sense. 


One might think that Rahu would spoil the ninth house by making one follow some 
unorthodox religion or spiritual practice, worshipping a God who appears with a destructive 
face or being extreme in one’s views. All of this has some truth. However, there is good that 
can come from Rahu in the ninth too. The old religious ways may have decayed and become 
corrupt. A new approach may be useful. This can apply in a very private personal sense and 
on a larger scale depending on the overall chart. 


Sad or Sat also relates to signs ruled by the Sun, Moon or Jupiter. Such signs 
coincident with a Dharma house would further add to the strength of Rahu. This kind of 
good influence will diminish the difficult tendencies and make it more wholesome. We get a 
clue here, that Rahu gains strength when influenced by Sattva. After all, Tamas on its own is 
too dull to achieve much. As a shadow Graha, Rahu takes from its associations. Thus when 
associated with Sat, it improves but the Sattvic planet that it is conjoined or which rules its 
sign is made more complex. 


Xo qd ASAT AH: 


om caturthe matrnasakaya namah 


66. In the fourth (Chaturtha) house, Rahu is harmful (Nashaka) to the mother (Mair). 


This begins certain names where Rahu is said to damage the person associated with 
the house (also 76, 78). This is naturally rather distressing. However, it does not always mean 
that the person suffers. It may be that some characteristic of that person is strongly associ- 
ated with Rahu. If you have Rahu in the fourth, remember that he can prove to be a blessing. 
We should actively seek the blessing rather than wait for the bad news. Vedic astrology offers 
various remedies for such combinations. These consist of mantras, Pujas and gems though 
gems are unlikely to be useful here. Finding the correct remedy is quite an advanced topic. 


Take great care with a name like this. | do not recommend using it as a mantra except 
as part of repeating all the set of names. Certainly, do not ask another person to repeat it. 


30 ASA ASTHMA ane AF: 


om candrayukte candalajatisucakaya namah 


67. If in conjunction with the Moon (Chandra Yukta), it points (SGcaka) to birth as an outcast 
(Chandadala Jati). 


In the traditional context, Chandalajati could hint at illegitimacy as it suggests the union 
of a high-class woman with a low-class man, something that would normally not be adver- 
tised socially. However, what this means practically is that one’s relatives may not treat one 
very well, or one may be separated from or aggrieved with one’s mother. This combination 
has a lot in common with that mentioned in the last name as the fourth house and the Moon 
are closely linked. Both represent the mother. 


These experiences can hang heavy on the heart. One has to find a reason for letting it 
go. What happens in this life, the major experiences at least, are dictated by what we brought 
in. Whether we believe in reincarnation or genetics, this occurred due to some past cause 
over which we have no control. As Shri Krishna so wisely tells the great warrior Arjuna just 
before the great Mahabharata battle, “We should not grieve over the inevitable.” It is like a 
debt that we have to repay. Once paid, we must move on. 


Many years before the battle, Arjuna’s brother Bhima was travelling and met a beautiful 
demoness. She begged to have a child from him. When the battle came, that child, Gha- 
totkaca, saved Arjuna’s life. The only warrior with a weapon that could kill Arjuna was saving 
it for when they would come into direct combat. Ghatotkaca, being a demon, had the power 
to fight while remaining invisible and was destroying the enemy army. The destruction was so 
great that the enemy commander ordered the weapon to be used. Ghatotkaca died but Ar- 
juna was thereby saved, which ensured victory. 


This story illustrates the complexity of karma and the impossibility of passing judg- 
ment. Perhaps Rahu’s influence makes us judgmental because of a feeling or fear of being 
judged ourselves. Rahu can make us feel like an outcast in some way, but it is just smoke and 
is best born gracefully. Gracefulness wears away any stain. 


ae Teeoi-At AH: 
om simhajanmane namah 


68. Born (Janma) in Leo. 


This indicates that when Rahu was born, the Moon was in Simha, Leo. This is the royal 
sign and Rahu’s association indicates the use and abuse of power as we mentioned earlier 
and in the next name. 


xo USAera AU: 


om rajyadatre namah 


69. Giving (Dair) royal position and power (Rajya). 


It is a regrettable but real fact that anyone in a position of power has to do many 
manipulative things to maintain that position. We want our rulers to be good people but we let 
them have secret services and slush funds for special ops because we know that they have 
to do things that we would rather not hear about. Is there any government that has never 
assassinated anyone whether by its agents or through others? Wherever there is power, there 
are people trying to grab that power in so many ways. 


One classic case of great power given by Rahu is that of Mrs Margaret Thatcher. She 
was a relative unknown when Rahu Dasha started and then she quickly rose to hold the post 
of British Prime Minister until Rahu ended. At that time, she was rather nastily forced out by 
her own men. She has Rahu in Cancer in a Nakshatra of Saturn. Cancer is a ‘Sat’ sign and 
Rahu falls in the ninth house in the chart according to the Shri Pati house system. According 
to name 65, this gives unusual strength. Rahu’s period activated Saturn exalted in the first 
house giving a royal yoga (combination) and she achieved great prominence. Rahu’s associa- 
tion with the Moon or Cancer can also indicate bringing major social change. Society is ruled 
by the Moon. Others with this are Prince Charles, who has championed many good causes 
in the face of much ingrained opposition, and former UK Prime Minister Tony Blair. Both Mrs 
Thatcher and Tony Blair made many changes in the way things are managed in the UK. Both 
eventually took actions that proved very unpopular. 


Mrs Thatcher tried to introduce a poll tax that was hated and Mr Blair ignored the 
popular opposition to invading Iraq without full UN support. The poll tax appeared to be the 
fatal mistake of Mrs Thatcher but the end of Rahu was sure to be the end of her rule, whatever 
she did, as | predicted several years before it occurred. Rahu is followed by Jupiter, which 
rules enemies in her chart and is in the house of supporters. This is an example of where 
Vedic Astrology gives a result which is both obvious and inevitable. | had her birth date and 
place but no time. | went to the library and got a book on her life. Since she had such an inter- 
esting and dramatic life, it was not hard to figure her time of birth, which later proved correct. 


x0 Herne AA: 
om mahakayaya namah 


70. Large bodied (Maha Kaya). 


We might expect those marked by Rahu to be especially tall or large. | have not 
particularly noticed this but as Rahu is more about mental influences, it does give people a 
certain psychic vastness. After all, Rahu has no body, only a head so this name must pertain 
to something more subtle than the physical frame. 


0 S-Hopd Aq: 


om janmakartre namah 


71. The cause (Katr) of birth and rebirth (Janma). 


This name establishes Rahu as a ruler of the desire nature. He leads us to chase 
phantoms, gripped by many cravings. This keeps us far from the fulfillment that brings the 
cycle of birth and death to an end. On the other hand, the shaking that he induces often 
causes a search for truth that ultimately opens the doors to liberation. 


30 fagitae AH: 


om vidhuripave namah 


72. The enemy of the Moon. 


Ripu is one who cheats, is deceitful and treacherous. Vidhu is the Moon as also one 
who is lonely. The mind has this characteristic and Rahu throws illusions that lead the mind 
into many deceptions. Rahu may darken the soul, the Sun, but it is the mind that it deceives. 
If we relax our awareness so that the point of attention, where our awareness stands, settles 
to the soul from the mind, then we can no longer be deceived even though we may appear 
to be in darkness. 


It is a core concept of Jyotisha that the Moon is always ready to fight Rahu. That 
means that the influence of the Moon can dampen the trauma associated with the placement 
of Rahu. In day-to-day life, the mind does try to overcome the fears and addictions that 
Rahu represents. If the mind is strong, then this is successful. Thus strengthening the mind 
is essential for rising out of such difficulties. Venus is the most helpful in strengthening the 
mind because the Moon is exalted in Taurus, ruled by Venus. Venus represents love and 
friendliness. The basis of most good approaches to addiction treatment is this: building pos- 
itive relationships with others. 


Xo Ale bloldaly AH: 
om madakajnanadaya namah 


73. Causing (Da) ignorance (Ajnana) through intoxication (Wadaka). 


Rahu is implicated in many cases of addiction or substance abuse. While some feel 
that these substances give them insights, this name suggests that it is all part of the illusion. 
This is particularly seen when Rahu is with the Sun or the Moon. In fact, wherever Rahu falls 
is our place of potential addiction. For example, if it falls in the second house which rules the 
mouth, eating or drinking disorders can arise. There may be use of mood altering substances 
or, if the Moon is strong, the person may study nutrition and take a lot of supplements. 


In some cases, this could refer to the Divine intoxication of a devoted heart. A won- 
derful example is Shri Ramakrishna Paramahamsa whose chart was dominated by Rahu and 
who lived a spotless life. 


xo HATH MUSICA AA: 
om janmakanyarajyadatre namah 


74. The giver (Dar) of royal status (Rajya) or high position to those born (/anma) with Rahu in 
Virgo (Kanya). 


As a result of this name or other scriptural assertions such as Parashara’s statement 
that Rahu is strong in Virgo, some feel that Virgo can be considered like Rahu’s own sign. 
Technically, we call it the MGlaTrikona. This is his office and is a place where it can exert great 
power of control. Rahu in Virgo can also make good healers. 


30 STHeldaly AH: 
om janmahanidaya namah 


75. Causing (Da) one to abandon life or endangering birth Wanma Hani). 


When Rahu rises at the time of birth, there may be difficulties. One can be that the 
umbilicus is wrapped around the neck. Rahu indicates this as it is like a snake. If one survives, 
one may feel pulled to move away from one’s native place. There will be a natural sense 
of connection with people who are ‘foreign’ with respect to the birth place or family. Rahu 


generates a sense of separation. This can have many different manifestations. During Rahu’s 


Dasha in particular, we can search for a cure for this feeling. 


The Dasha can wear away at us. Sometimes life may not even seem worth living. It 
is said that some people commit suicide when the sub cycle of Rahu comes at the end of 
Jupiter’s Dasha. Jupiter is often very beneficial and the Rahu sub cycle and the sense of the 
oncoming Dasha of Saturn can cause many pleasurable things to be lost and much gloom. 
This name makes it clear that suicide is due to illusion, there is no truth in it. It is good to 
remember that self-destructive behaviours amount to gradual approaches to suicide. Life is 
very precious because it can lead to the door of God realization. Even Rahu can help. These 
mantras show his many faces. If we pick up one that appeals to us, that gives us a sense of 


upliftment, it can help us through daily practice. 


Janma may refer to the presence of Rahu in the Ascendant or Moon sign or its 
influence on them. The next two names refer to the fifth and ninth. The first, fifth and ninth 
form the Dharma triangle of houses. Rahu is a natural enemy of Dharma. Here, the implication 
is that Rahu in the first is difficult for the person especially at the time of birth. It might also 


cause back problems as the Rahu - Ketu axis is associated with the spine. 


As always, there is another side to this. If Janma (life) refers to the sequence of birth 
after birth, then Rahu’s impact helps us overcome and escape from this sequence. If life was 
easy and comfortable, no one would raise a finger to escape. Thus, when we fall into the 
Divine Grace, we have the malefics to thank, especially Rahu as some of his other names 


make clear. 


so Fay Tera 44: 


om navame pitrhantre namah 


76. In the ninth house (Navama), he damages (Hant?} the father (Pitr). 


The ‘father’ can mean the father, the grandfather, the paternal ancestors and even the 
whole heritage extending to the race as a whole. It may be that the father dies while the child 
is young or the person may be separated from his or her father or may commit acts that are 
disapproved of by the parents or the community. One example could be if the person chooses 


to follow a different religious path. 


Xo UA Maras AH: 


om pancame sokadayakaya namah 


77. In the fifth house (Paficama), he causes (Dayaka) grief (Shoka). 


The fifth house represents children, so there can be issues in this area. People may 
avoid having children because they feel that, if they have children, some unfortunate thing 
may happen or there may be some undesired separation. On the other hand, the children may 
be brilliant and healthy and have a strong association with Rahu in their chart. 


A lack of happiness may be at the root of any tendency to gambling, which can result 
from this placement. There may also be a fascination with mantras. If misused this causes 
all kinds of grief. One should approach a fit Guru and receive a suitable mantra for Shri 
Narasimha, Mother Kali or as chosen by the Guru to overcome these difficulties and enjoy real 
happiness in life. 


x0 GA madera AH: 


om dyune kalatrahantre namah 


78. In the seventh house (Dytina) of marriage, he harms (Hantr) the spouse (Kalatra). 


There may be mitigating factors so a range of different results may arise as in the other 
similar names. If Rahu is strong or aspected by beneficial planets like Jupiter, all will largely 
be well. However, it is not uncommon for a separation to occur so people with Rahu in the 
seventh may be married more than once. The second and subsequent marriages are seen 
from other places so the main problem is with the first marriage. 


Rahu in the seventh house indicates that the partner is marked by Rahu in some way. 
Often this indicates someone from another culture or social class. This is advised, as marrying 
someone close to one’s own family can have other issues. This might include his being rather 
fearful or suffering from addictions. People often complain about their partner having such 
defects but the indication is in their chart. They chose such a person because they subcon- 
sciously wanted or needed to have such an experience. That is not an argument for putting 
up with abuse but one has to enlarge one’s heart and understand what there is in this for one 
to learn so the history does not keep repeating. 


A special clue is in this name. Dyune, is a name for the seventh house but can also 
mean playing or gambling. This shows how gambling tendencies can be particularly harmful 
to the spouse. A famous Vedic example concerns the noble Yudhishthira, the most righteous 
of all kings who lived at the time of Shri Krishna and is a main player in the great epic, the 
Mahabharata. He was conned into a gambling contest with his uncle who was expert with 


dice. 


Yudhishthira lost everything and since his opponents were of a wicked disposition they 
thought first of publicly humiliating his wife. She was dragged before the assembly. Being 
highly intelligent, she asked how she could be lost in gambling because she was not the prop- 
erty of her husband. The wisest gathered there concurred, but her clothes were considered 
the property of the king. One degenerate prince stepped forward and tried to disrobe her in 
front of everyone. Helpless, she appealed to Lord Krishna and a miracle occurred. However 
much her sari was pulled it kept on unravelling without leaving her uncovered. The silk ex- 
tended itself so far that the vigorous young prince fell down exhausted. 


xo Eta HaSucla AH: 
om saptame kalahapradaya namah 


79. In the seventh house (Saptama), Rahu brings (Prada) strife or a path. 


The seventh house is about marriage and all kinds of partnerships. Kalaha indicates 
strife, contention, quarrel, falsehood or abuse. Depending on the individual chart, Rahu can 
indicate difficulties, even problems like those just listed. Remedies should be done if one is 
suffering like this including seeking professional help. 


Without condoning abuse in any way, we note that, as discussed above, the best 
remedy involves friendliness and love. It gradually undermines the root cause of the conflict. 
Kalaha can mean a road or way. If Rahu is in the seventh, this placement may show our path 
in life. 


xe UR Tadcrd 44: 


om sasthe vittadatre namah 


80. The giver (Datr) of fame and wealth (Vitta) when placed in the sixth house. 


The sixth (sastha) is the place of our enemies, inner and outer. Rahu defeats them 
clearing the way for our success. Of course, defeating the enemies likely means resorting to 
aggressive means and thus perpetuating the tradition of sin and enmity. Rahu keeps the cycle 
of birth and rebirth going. 


xo aqd aie Aa: 


om caturthe vairyadayakaya namah 


81. In the fourth house (Chaturtha), he gives (Dayaka) enmity (Vairya). 


The fourth is the place of relatives and our land and immoveable property. There may 
be disputes with or among the relatives and over property. The fourth is one of the Moksha 
signs. It is the place of blissful repose like the fourth state of consciousness, pure being. 


As Rahu represents illusion and craving, it is particularly contrary to the nature of the 
fourth. With Rahu in the fourth, there may be an unsettledness or a fear of disturbance. This 
leads one to look for a deeper state of peace and is thus ultimately beneficial. Learning to live 
with Rahu in one’s heart is to achieve the basis of immortality. 


The fourth is the natural place of the Moon, which rules the fourth sign. Rahu 
associated with the Moon indicates a fearsome form of the Goddess, like Goddess Durga. 
She appears holding weapons but is there to protect the righteous and bring liberation to the 
selfish by removing their ego. She helps one transcend one’s own egoistic tendencies that are 
ultimately the sole source of one’s mistakes and suffering. The truth that one embodies is for- 
ever protected by Her. This yoga is challenging but has the highest good as its target. 


xo AH UTA AH: 


om navame papadatre namah 


82. In the ninth house (Navama), he is the giver (Datr) of sinfulness (Papa). 


The Karaka or significator of the ninth is Jupiter. It is a place of conventional or 
established wisdom and religion. Rahu can make one reject this and follow one’s own path. 
This is the place of the teacher, so Rahu may even cause one to promote one’s own vision of 
religion or spirituality. We cannot say this is bad, it is a natural part of the evolution of ideas. 
However, this placement can, with multiple supporting factors, lead to religious or ideological 
fundamentalism. 


Another interpretation could be that some bad decisions somehow spoil one’s luck. 
The ninth house is the main place showing one’s fortune due to past good deeds. As always, 
the individual chart has to be carefully studied. 


Xo TMA MHC As AH: 
om dasame sokadayakaya namah 


83. Giving (Dayaka) grief (Shoka) in the tenth house (Dashama). The next two names elaborate 


on this. 


Xo Met UMMA AA: 


om adau yaSahpradatre namah 


84. In the beginning (Aa), he gives (Praaatr) fame (Yasha). 


Rahu in the tenth house can give a big boost to one’s career, Rahu amplifies things and 
the tenth, being a growth house, is a place where malefic planets do well. However, planets 
cause growth through their own natures, so Rahu’s presence may indicate that one creates 
some negative karma or certain enemies in the process. 


0 eq AUCH AA: 


om ante vairapradayakaya namah 


85. In the end (Anta), he brings (Dayaka) enmity (Vaira). 


The temporal references suggest we can expect these results during Rahu Dasha. 
Success early in the Dasha may have consequences that lead to conflict towards the end. As 
we leave Rahu cycles our thinking changes and we re-evaluate our priorities. This can affect 
partnerships formed during Rahu unless there is a strong soul connection. 


We could also interpret the last two names as relating to the eleventh and twelfth 
houses. In the eleventh Rahu can bring fame and in the twelfth house, it can bring conflict. 
Those with Rahu in the twelfth may have a tendency to fight and some will end their lives vi- 
olently because of that tendency. 


According to the Vedic Astrology classics, Rahu in the twelfth indicates one goes to 
some lower world after death. However, if there are compensating beneficial factors in the 
chart, someone with Rahu in the twelfth will try to achieve the immortal state in this life. Since 
the twelfth indicates transcendence and Rahu indicates infinite expansion, this is perfectly 
possible. 


0 lela AG: 


om kalatmane namah 


86. Whose soul (Atman) is time (Kala). 


Rahu is often said to be a ‘karmic’ planet, that is an indicator along with Ketu of 
intense destiny from the past. In my experience, it is the transits of Rahu that can be used to 
successfully predict major events for individuals and mankind. Kala has the sense of time and 
the measuring of time. It is also the dark blue colour so this could be read as ‘dark souled’. 
People tend to fear time like they fear darkness because the future is unknown to them like an 
unlighted place. In the great Yoga Sutras of Rishi Patafjali, he describes how the past present 
and future meet at a point on the edge of absolute consciousness and can thereby be known 
if the awareness is completely still. 


This state is filled with light, as it were, illuminating all space and time. As the mind 
becomes quieter, the extent to which one can see increases. To begin with, one might just 
sense what will happen in the next few hours. Later, events far distant in time can be known. 
Jyotisha is the science by which we can confirm this inner vision through precise calculations 
and thus distinguish between truth and delusions. 


In Kerala and some other parts of India famous for their great astrological traditions, 
when an important question arises they call several learned astrologers and let them debate. 
The outcome is not dependent on a single person’s view but is made certain and more refined 
by the coming together of the group of experts. Once, when visiting Southern India, | picked 
up a local paper and saw an article describing such a session going on at the local temple. 
The astrologers were talking inside the temple while the public was listening on loudspeakers 
outside. An astrologer said “Within five minutes a snake will appear near the Murti (the image 
of worship).” Another said, “Everyone is listening, we will look fools if it does not happen.” The 
first astrologer said “I will burn all my books if the prediction fails.” Then the snake appeared. 


A great Guru once debated how the world should be guided. If one formed a council to 
reflect on Earth the Supreme Intelligence, how many enlightened persons would be needed? 
Someone, probably for sycophantic reasons, suggested just one. The teacher responded that 
one would never be enough because any one person, however profound and pure, would 
always have their view influenced by personal tendencies. A group could rise above these 
and reflect the highest truth in a pure way. He pointed out that the book of Supreme wisdom, 
the Rig Veda, which contains the vibrations of natural law required many seers to bring it forth 
so the council might require the number of the seers of the Veda, some 300. 


xo WhaCaUy AA: 


om gocaracaraya namah 


87. Moving through the zodiac. 


Chara is about moving, Gochara is the field in which the planets (Go) move (Chara). 
Gochara is the field that is visible to the senses, so this name gives us the clue that Rahu 
projects us into the sensory or worldly field. This is a strong characteristic of Rahu’s Dasha. 
Especially in the early stages one may not even listen to one’s friends who caution one about 
any rush to try to achieve the worldly desires that have seized one. On the other hand, this is 
part of the cosmic design. Rahu’s cycles help one grow and can give deep realization espe- 
cially around the time that they end. 


Xo et Hopeuay AH: 


om dhane kakutpradaya namah 


88. In the second house (Ohana), he gives (Prada) the position and insignia of royalty (or high 
position). 


Kakud (‘d’ becomes ‘t’ in the compound word) means a peak and since the word used 
for the second house refers to wealth, this could mean giving a pile of cash. This also applies 
to Rahu in Taurus. | have often noticed that this position can give abundant material wealth or 
at least the show of it but what is hidden is the cost being paid. That cost may be acts which 
some would consider scandalous. However, one cannot jump to conclusions, much depends 
on the position of Venus, ruler of Taurus, as well as other factors. 


xo TAH Tams cy AH: 


om paficame dhisanasrngadaya namah 


89. In the fifth house (Paficama), he gives high intelligence. 


Dhishana means intelligence. Shrnga is ‘horn-like’ which means penetrating or very 
high. One version of this mantra has Ashrnga, which suggests that focus is missing or, in spe- 
cial circumstances can mean the very highest. That is, on one level the intelligence may be 
lacking in focus but, with profound realization, the intelligence can be most highly perfected. 
In either reading, there is a potential for a remarkable mind but sometimes there can be some 
possibility for confusion if other factors also indicate this. 


One apparent example of confused intelligence is if the person is heavily involved with 
some risky form of speculation, a characteristic of the fifth house. They may even be trying to 
make a living from it. They may insist that they do not have a gambling problem, are not even 
gambling and are, in fact, routinely winning. 


Rahu typically makes one react with denial. That is how he keeps one under his 
control. If one can get perspective, then one will get greater clarity. Forswearing denial is a 
good start. There is nothing intrinsically wrong with what one is doing apart from the slippery 
slope and the consequences of slipping so there is no need for guilt. There is great need for 
realism though. We should be especially realistic about the level of stress we are experienc- 
ing. There is always another way. 


xo TaN AH: 


om svarbhanave namah 


90. Lord of the heavens (Svarbhanu). 


This is normally a name for the Sun but Rahu can overpower the Sun so he can claim 
this title. It also means ‘censuring the Sun’ which can be taken as eclipsing the Sun. This can 
affect a person who has Rahu associated with the Sun (Bhanu). Here the Sun stands for the 
sense of self. Rahu represents a sense of something overshadowing or causing a defect in 
the self. This gives rise to a self-critical feeling, which can echo in feeling others are critical of 
one. There may be issues with the father and a need to prove oneself better than him. This 
combination is found in many leading politicians. One can seek to be the lord of the heavens 
in one’s own sphere. 


The sense of being less is the illusion Rahu is creating. We must try to see through it. 
Any idea that one is flawed inside is a fake. It is a real feeling but does not tell us anything 
about the truth. The self is the Self, the Divinity itself, always. Seek to know That. 


30 Aer AG: 


om baline namah 


91. The powerful one (Balin). 


This name helps us understand the remedy to Rahu’s challenges. Our normal re- 
sponse, when faced with a Rahu affliction like the one just mentioned, is to struggle with 
it. This is why we are reminded of his strength. The affliction by Rahu of the Sun is the 
toughest because it is on the soul level and that cannot be remedied by any activity of the 
mind or body. The Sun dislikes being eclipsed but its way of staying peaceful is to accept the 
inevitable. For us, we have to consider the nature of the problem. The Sun is light and Rahu is 
darkness, so one feels the classic conflict between these two. However, the Truth is beyond 


both and That is what we are. This is why one does not have to drive out the darkness to 
restore the light, which is what one inevitably tries to do, at least until one finds it hopeless or 
one comes to understand. Faced with this impossible situation, one has to relax so that one 
sees that the self is never eclipsed except from the viewpoint of the world. As the Self, it is 
never afflicted. 


xo TeTeareawana AH: 


om mahasaukhyapradayine namah 


92. Giving (Pradayin) great health and happiness (Mahasaukhya). This is especially possible if 
we achieve the state just described. 


so a=gahut AH: 


om candravairine namah 


93. Having enmity (Vaira) with the Moon (Chandra). 


Having told us about the conflict with the Sun, we are informed about the issues with 
the Moon. With the Sun, it was a sense of being flawed. With the Moon, it is about Vaira or 
enmity. This can cause anger and confusion in the mind as the mind is signified by the Moon. 
The Moon also signifies the Mother, motherhood and society. 


If one feels angry towards one’s mother, then it is good to heal this. Letting it fester 
can make us sick eventually. An effective way to heal is to forgive and forget. If the mother 
has died or is absent, it does not matter. The only thing that matters is how we feel when one 
remembers her. One must use one’s mind and heart to cross over any resentment, and find a 
place of sweetness and love. The wonderful thing about Vedic Astrology is that it shows one 
how a person feels and why. One can see the burden she carried. Even if someone has greatly 
mistreated one, only compassion can arise because one knows how hard it was for her. We 
may think another person does not care for one, but the truth is that everyone tries their best 
within their mental and physical circumstances, which can be very restricting. 


30 WMA AH: 


om Sasvataya namah 


94. Eternal (Shashvata). 


There are two aspects of eternity. The universe continues and its immortal basis 
continues. Rahu is connected to both. Rahu represents the tradition of birth and rebirth, 
which appears to lie endlessly before us. At the same time, he can help us find that which is 
truly eternal, the Supreme Being. Shashvata is a name of Lord Shiva. Meditating on Him as 
absolute unchanging consciousness takes us out of the tradition of worldly pains. It does not 
matter what name your God has, if that God is the Supreme Being beyond space and time, 
then that is the One to meditate on. 


so Gala AH: 


om suraSatrave namah 


95. The enemy (Shatru) of the divine ones. 


Sura means one who drinks the nectar and so Rahu could be thought of as drying up 
or depriving us of that nectar, which comes through deep peace. He gives us no peace, which 
is what this name indicates. However, the universe requires balance. That means someone 
has to oppose the gods. The friction causes growth and evolution. Evolution takes us towards 
that which is beyond the gods and their enemies, the Supreme Being. Rahu is a very power- 
ful force of evolution. 


so UTTey Aa: 
om papagrahaya namah 


96. A Graha bringing trouble or sin (Papa). 


Sin means a tendency to acts of unkindness or selfishness. Graha literally means 
grasping and this name gives the clue that this is the cause of sin. Like the famous mantra 
‘What’s in it for me?’ We all have to look after ourselves but society depends on a certain 
degree of cooperation. It helps to be truly honest with ourselves about what we need and 
what we are giving. Giving is the best remedy for his troubles. At least it creates good, which 
will come back to us in the future. 


30 WEYATA AU: 


om sambhavaya namah 


97. Related to or devoted to Shambhu, Lord Shiva (Shambhava). 


This name identifies Rahu with the absolute power, the one who is always awake, 
always kind, granting happiness and who brings all things eventually to rest or fulfillment. It 
means Rahu arises from Him and is devoted to Him. Therefore, Rahu will protect other devo- 
tees of Shiva. The same name occurs under Ketu, as do several of these last names. 


This mantra is an excellent remedy for any lack of peacefulness that we may experi- 
ence under his influence. Our distress is caused by our mistakes fructifying and our wanton 
tendencies awakening. He facilitates this because our space needs cleaning and we need to 
see the nature of the unreal. If we really understand him properly, he is not different from the 
Lord or pure peacefulness. 


Ro USAHTY AA: 


om pujyakaya namah 


98. Worthy of worship. 


Giving him respect works, fighting with him does not. However, it is better to worship 
a related deity like Lord Shiva or Mother Durga or use a name for him like the last one that 
awakens the higher side. 


Pujyaka also indicates the father-in-law or a person worthy of honour. Wherever Rahu 
falls in the Vedic chart, that is a place that indicates people worthy of our deep respect. 
Strangely, the gut reaction is usually to have issues with them. Perhaps one has good reasons 
for this. However, this name comes to save one from this trap as finding fault will only open 
a Pandora’s Box of troubles. The people concerned are indicated by the conjoined planets or 


the house Rahu occupies, not by Rahu himself. 


x0 UTE RUT FH: 


om patirapuranaya namah 


99. An ancient (Purana) sieve (Patira). 


Rahu sieves us, he shakes us up and then all our patterns fall though his sieve and we 
gradually get straightened out. This is a long and thus ancient process. Patira can also mean 
a cloud, field or sandal tree. Whether he is a cloud that has hung over us for a long time, a 
field we have wandered in for lifetimes or even a sweet smelling tree we cannot leave alone, 
it is all part of what he is. 


As it happens, sandal powder is obtained from the wood using a kind of sieve. Our 
essence is divine but Rahu’s sieving helps make its perfume become apparent. It allows us to 


experience what we really are. 


xo USapal Ga AH: 


om paithinasakulodbhavaya namah 


100. Born (Udbhava) in the family (Kula) of Rishi Paithinasa. 


Paithinasa was the author of an Upasmriti (law book), one of the branches of Vedic 
wisdom. He was the son or descendant of Pithinasa who is mentioned in the Rig Veda (6:26). 
The clue is that Rahu is all about the law. He may mark troublemakers, fraudsters and even 
serious criminals but his action is to punish our transgressions from the past, perhaps long 
past. This is how he gets associated with Rudra and the Nakshatra of Ardra, which lies in the 
centre of Gemini. Rudra is the Vedic Shiva who stands in Ardra, bow drawn to punish those 
who deviate from the path of righteousness. This Nakshatra is prominent in the charts of 
many Vedic Astrologers. Something has motivated one to study the natural law and seek the 
grace that the knowledge bestows. 


This may be what the Bible Genesis story is telling us. It is an allegory for the loss of 
pure innocence and the indulgence in worldly concepts and ideas, ‘differentiating between 
good and evil’ as the Bible says. The cause is listening to the snake. Rahu is the chief of the 
snakes, the Kundalini Shakti, and while it is not fully risen, it leads one here and there into all 
kinds of complexities. Once awakened it disappears, as it were, leaving that pure innocence 
restored. As the Vedanta says, there was no snake, it was the same Divinity all along and that 


is our very nature. It alone exists. 


xo Wp AA: 


om bhaktaraksaya namah 


101. Protecting (Raksa) the devotees (Bhakta). 


Even Rahu and Ketu are ready to protect those who are characterized by humility and 
respect. Those who think they can protect themselves from trouble by being troublesome to 
others or more clever, can hardly succeed. Destiny is always more powerful and will find a 
crack in the defences. However, those who have a simple respectfulness for every form of the 


divine, whatever its appearance, are beloved even of the most terrible powers. 


xo Wedd AA: 


om rahumurtaye namah 


102. Taking form (Murti) as Rahu. 


It is the One Cosmic Intelligence that manifests as Rahu. There is no one else! This 
resolves the whole debate about whether there is a devil separate from God and questions 
like ‘if God made everything, how can there be evil?’ If we can see the total picture, we will 
understand the Will that is directing everything according to His Law and appreciate its pure 
compassion. 


Xo TAP HAIAY AH: 


om sarvabhistaphalapradaya namah 


103. Giving (Prada) all desired results (Sarva Abhista Phala). 


This name promises us everything we could ask for so we know that we do not have 
to wait for another Graha to help us or save us. 


His intelligence and problem-solving ability is behind all mankind’s incredible tech- 
nological development. We often think that, with some more research, we can solve our 
problems. The benefits are great but each step forward opens up increasingly powerful risks. 
Every scientist knows that there are many unforeseeable consequences to each discovery. 
The web is literally becoming more and more vast and tangled. This is the nature of Rahu so it 
is sure that this side of his intelligence does not guarantee our survival. | believe that this and 
other names are primarily pointing to the other side of his nature. That aspect which can save 
us as mentioned in Rahu 101. If we are in the hands of Rahu, he can help us if we show suffi- 


cient respect. This sounds easy but it requires an extraordinary amount of humility. 


x0 ETAT AG: 


om dirghaya namah 


104. Long (Dirgha). 


His Dasha is 18 years and it can seem like several lifetimes! It teaches us to bear 
gracefully with many ups and downs. This is a very valuable benefit but one which is fully ap- 


preciated after the Dasha ends. Dirgha can also mean something deep or elevated. 


x0 HOUTA TH: 


om krsnaya namah 


105. Dark coloured (Krsna). 


The absolute consciousness has a little bluish colour. Thus this name indicates a very 
profound manifestation of the Supreme, not just a darkness to fear. It also suggests that 
remembering Lord Krishna can help us overcome all the troubles of Rahu. Lord Krishna is the 
Avatara related to the Moon. He has the Moon rising in Taurus in his chart with Venus con- 
joined Rahu in Cancer. His Moon overcame every terrorizing entity he faced. 


ao seqdqa AG: 


om atanave namah 


106. Bodiless (Atanu). 


Or one who is not thin, not small. He has no body but is still vast. It also means he is 
coarse. It is hard to be refined under his influence. If we manage it, we are great! 


30 FADO AH: 


om visnunetraraye namah 


107. The enemy of the luminaries. 


The Sun and the Moon are said to be the eyes of the Lord (Visnu Netra). By hiding them 
he becomes their enemy. However, Ari can also mean faithful or attached. This is how the 
Rahu of one person having a similar degree to a luminary in another person’s chart can make 
the two very attached to each other. Then, at times, it can seem like a love-hate relationships. 
This name encapsulates this experience. After all Rahu only exists because of the orbits of the 
Sun and the Moon. He is astronomically inseparable from them. 


xo Say AH: 


om devaya namah 


108. A divine being (Deva), and at the same time... 


30 GMHATa AH: 


om danavaya namah 


109. A demonic being (Danava). 


He is both divine and demonic; he is beyond the range of humanity and can take us 
to any of the other realms. He can terrify us or protect us, curse us or bless us. It is up to us, 


how we are with him. 


This is the 109* name. Being a natural contrarian, Rahu has to have an extra name. 
The 108" was, as usual in these sets of names, pure divinity. This just gives us another 


chance to love him, like the friend who has a ‘but’ for anything we say. 


so TY BY 


Om tat sat 


Oo ON DON FF WwW DY =| 


Oo wWwowwowon YO NMNMDNRNRDNMN NN 2a] |] BA BSB 2B Ss |e oe os a 
nr woONnMD +H$ DOOAWAN DOA KRWBNDR HH ODA N DOA KRWND $+ CO 


THE MANTRAS OF RAHU IN TRANSLITERATION 


. om rahave namah 

. om saimhikeyaya naman 

.om vidhuntudaya namah 

. om suraSatrave namah 

. om tamase namah 

.om phanine namah 

. om gargyayanaya namah 

. om suraraye namah 

. om nilajimatasamkasaya namah 

. om caturbhujaya namah 

. om khangakhetakadharine namah 

. om varadayakahastakaya namah 

. om sdlayudhaya namah 

.om meghavarnaya namah 

.om krsnadhvajapatakavate namah 
. om daksinasamukharathaya namah 
. om tiksnadamstrakaralakaya namah 
. om Sarpakarasanasthaya namah 

. om gomedhabharanapriyaya namah 
. om masapriyaya namah 

. om kaSyaparsinandanaya namah 

. om bhujagesvaraya namah 

.om ulkapatayitre namah 

. om SGline namah 

. om nidhipaya namah 

. om krsnasarparaje namah 

. om visajvalavrta'syaya namah 

. om ardhaSsariraya namah 

. om Satravapradaya namah 

. om ravindubhikaraya namah 

. om chayasvarupine namah 

. om kathinangakaya namah 

. om dvisacchakracchedakaya namah 
. om karalasyaya namah 

. om bhayamkaraya namah 


36. 
37. 
38. 
39. 
40. 
41. 
42. 
43. 
44. 
45. 
46. 
47. 
48. 
49. 
50. 
51. 
52. 
53. 
54. 
55. 
56. 
57. 
58. 
59. 
60. 
61. 
62. 
63. 
64. 
65. 
66. 
67. 
68. 
69. 
70. 
71. 
72. 
73. 


om krirakarmane namah 

om tamorupaya namah 

om syamatmane namah 

om nilalohitaya namah 

om kiritine namah 

om nilavasanaya namah 

om Sanisamantavartmagaya namah 
om candalavarnaya namah 

om asvyrksabhavaya namah 

om mesabhavaya namah 

om Sanivatphaladaya namah 

om saraya namah 

om apasavyagataye namah 

om uparagakaraya namah 

om somastryacchavivimardakaya namah 
om nilapuspaviharaya namah 

om grahasresthaya namah 

om astamagrahaya namah 

om kabandhamatradehaya namah 
om yatudhanakulodbhavaya namah 
om govindavarapatraya namah 

om devajatipravistakaya namah 

om kraraya namah 

om ghoraya namah 

om Sanermitraya namah 

om sukramitraya namah 

om agocaraya namah 

om mane gangasnanadatre namah 
om svagrahe prabaladhyadaya namah 
om sadgrahe'nyabaladhrte namah 
om caturthe matrnasakaya namah 
om candrayukte candalajatisicakaya namah 
om simhajanmane namah 

om rajyadatre namah 

om mahakayaya namah 

om janmakartre namah 

om vidhuripave namah 

om madakajhanadaya namah 


74, 
75. 
76. 
Tf. 
78. 
79. 
80. 
81. 
82. 
83. 
84. 
85. 
86. 
87. 
88. 
89. 
90. 
Si: 
92. 
93. 
94, 
95. 
96. 
97. 
98. 
99. 
100. 
101. 
102. 
103. 
104. 
105. 
106. 
107. 
108. 
109. 


om janmakanyarajyadatre namah 
om janmahanidaya namah 

om navame pitrhantre namah 

om paficame Sokadayakaya namah 
om dyune kalatrahantre namah 

om saptame kalahapradaya namah 
om sasthe vittadatre namah 

om caturthe vairyadayakaya namah 
om navame papadatre namah 

om dasame Sokadayakaya namah 
om adau yasahpradatre namah 

om ante vairapradayakaya namah 
om kalatmane namah 

om gocaracaraya namah 

om dhane kakutpradaya namah 

om paficame dhisanasrngadaya namah 
om svarbhanave namah 

om baline namah 

om mahasaukhyapradayine namah 
om candravairine namah 

om Sasvataya namah 

om suraSatrave namah 

om papagrahaya namah 

om sambhavaya namah 

om pujyakaya namah 

om patirapuranaya namah 

om paithinasakulodbhavaya namah 
om bhaktaraksaya namah 

om rahumurtaye namah 

om sarvabhistaphalapradaya namah 
om dirghaya namah 

om krsnaya namah 

om atanave namah 

om visnunetraraye namah 

om devaya namah 

om danavaya namah 


SOURCES AND ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS 


While these lists are well Known to traditional astrologers in India, | only found two 
places where they had been printed. | am thus indebted to Dr Mrs Saraswathy and Prof. B. A. 
Eeswaran for publishing a Sanskrit text of the names of the Grahas in their book 
NavaGrahas, albeit without translation and source, and Prof. S.K. Ramachandra Rao for his 
outstanding compendium The NavaGraha Kosha, which includes another set. Prof. Rao 
informed me that his work was based on a medieval text. Regretfully Prof. Rao has passed 
away. These two sources have some differences. Where | felt that both versions of a name 
had merit, | included both under the same number. 


| am most grateful to Pandit UmaShankar Jois, priest of the Mukambika temple, Kollur, 
Karnataka, India, for his help in the early stages of this work. Regretfully, he has now passed 
away. Many other pundits gave me their learned opinion on particular names and | thank them 
all. My Jyotish Guru, Pandit Sanjay Rath, has been a great inspiration. 


Two great artists have kindly allowed me to showcase their beautiful work. Pieter 
Weltevrede, acclaimed Dutch master painter, did all the colour work. The drawings were 
done by the highly talented Jane Adams. Find out more about them in the Section ‘The 
Artists’. 


Many people helped me with editing and proofreading and | thank them all. Especially, 
| want to thank my wife Susie for her considerable assistance and all my family for their love 
and support. 


ABOUT THE AUTHOR 


Andrew Foss has a PhD in Computing Science from the University of Alberta and is 
also an Oxford University Physics graduate with publications in Nature and other leading sci- 
entific journals. He is the author of the book High-Dimensional Data Mining. He enjoys a deep 
love of music, art and poetry and has more than 30 years experience studying and teaching 
the Vedic wisdom around the world. He is the Founding President of the British Association of 
Vedic Astrology, Editor of the BAVA Journal Gochara and is a Certified Jaimini Scholar and 
Jyotish Pandit, the highest professional certifications in Vedic Astrology involving nine years 
of continuous study. He has developed the unique, easy and powerful software Shri Jyoti 
Star that has become the first choice amongst the leading Vedic Astrologers around the 
world. Andrew is married and lives with his family in Virginia, USA. 


SECRETS OF VIMSHOTTARI DASHA 


As a bonus | have decided to publish some unique secrets about Vedic Astrology in 
the printed version of this book, which will also have the mantras of all nine planets. Please 
visit YogaOfThePlanets.com for more information. 


For 33 years, |, like everyone else who studies Jyotisha, wondered about the origin of 
the lengths of the Vimshottari Dashas. | could never find a way into this mystery. Nowhere in 
the literature, ancient or modern, can even a satisfactory hint be found. Then, on July 7, 2015, 
| saw on the web at least a partial derivation of the sequence of lords. It relied on knowing the 
Dasha cycle lengths. At the end, the author appealed for someone to find a solution to the 
problem of deriving the length of the cycles. The thought came, ‘let’s give it a shot’. 


| pulled out a fresh sheet of paper and started writing down equations that might help. 
Bit by bit the key principles unfolded themselves. It did not take long to realize that | had an 
answer and it just required some polishing. In the process, some wonderful insights 
appeared as well as a profound advance in the understanding of the Tara Bala, which is most 
important for interpreting the Dasha. | have not found this written anywhere. Therefore, both 
these re-markable and interesting secrets were given to me and | am sharing them with you. 


Notes 


The Atmakaraka is the soul planet. It is the Graha that has advanced furthest in its zodiacal sign. Rahu is 
naturally retrograde, so it is an exception being measured from the end of the sign. Ketu is not considered as it 
represents the freedom of the soul, not its embodiment. 


The sacrament ofmarriage in Hindu society. Dr Usha Apte, Ajanta Publications, 1978 
See Uttara Kalamrita Kanda 2, Chp. 2, v6-7, and "The Raja Yogas of British Monarchs and American Presi 
dents", Steven J Hubbail, Gochara 8:1, 2007. 


E. Hanbury Hankin in Anna/es de /‘Institut Pasteur, 1896 


Kalshian, Rakesh; "Ganges Has Magical Cleaning Properties," Geographic, 66:5, April 1994 


