THE YOGA OF THE PLANETS 


VENUS, SHUKRA 
ANoreEw Foss, PHD 


Mh “Woe 
= . oe 


a 
fae 
= 


— 


TABLE OF CONTENTS 


Dedication 

How this Book will Help You 
Find your Personal Mantras 
The Journey 


Notes on Pronounciation from the Transliteration 


Hymn in Honour of the Planets 


Venus, Shukra 


The Mantras of Shukra in Transliteration 
Secrets of Vimshottari Dasha 

Sources and Acknowledgements 

The Artists 


About the Author 


HOW THIS BOOK WILL HELP YOU 


This book has many uses. In itself, it is a meditation. There is no need to know 
anything about Vedic Astrology to enjoy and benefit. There are insights into astrology but the 
main focus is enlightening the consciousness and providing a rebalancing of the energies 
represented by the planets. This will happen automatically as one reads the mantras and their 


commentaries. 


There are 108 mantras for each planet used in Vedic Astrology. Each mantra is a 
descriptive name converted to a salutation and used for meditation or chanting. For example 
‘om Santaya namah’ means ‘salutations to the peaceful one’ and is based on the name santa 
(shaanta) which means peaceful. Reciting the mantra develops understanding for the quality 
embodied in the name and can help mental clarity and spiritual development. In the transla- 
tion, the first mantra of each planet is fully translated. After that, just the names are translated 


leaving ‘Salutations to’ understood. 


The Vedic planets are normally listed in the order of the days of the week. They are 
the Sun, the Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus and Saturn plus the two eclipse points. 
These are the Lunar nodes called Rahu (the North node) and Ketu (the South node). The Vedic 
‘planets’ are often referred to as ‘Grahas’, the Sanskrit word which means ‘graspers’, as they 
appear to guide and control our experiences. 


For the first time, these mantras are listed with translation and commentary. Even if you 
only read the commentaries, you will get some of the benefit. If the planet is weak or afflicted 


in your life, then this acts as a remedy. If it is already strong, this helps to enliven its full value. 


A common way of using these mantras is to recite the set of 108 for the planet one 
chooses’. For example, one could recite the mantras of the Sun on Sunday mornings. The 
next chapter, Find your Personal Mantras, will explain how to go beyond this and find out 


which of the mantras will especially enliven your personal chart. 


The mantras of the more malefic planets, such as Mars, Saturn, Rahu and Ketu, natu- 
rally contain some names, which describe the more challenging side of the Graha. These help 
us to understand certain behaviours and this can be remedial. For these names, it may be 
better to contemplate the deeper meanings rather than simply repeating them. For example, 
Rahu is said to be cruel. This association with cruelty arises out of fear. Fear is deeply seated 


in survival issues. 


Contemplating the mantra may help one get in touch with the source of the problem, 
so it can be alleviated. Loving an injured heart can be the basis of real change. This applies to 


our self or another. | do not recommend using the more challenging names as regular practice 


mantras and | certainly do not recommend you ask another person to do them even if they 
come up when you do the calculations described in the next chapter. On the other hand, | 
have found listening to the sets of 108 names has been beneficial for my clients. 


If chanting one or a set of mantras, | suggest you start with 
om gam ganapataye namah 
to invoke the pure state of mind and end with 
om Santih Santin Santih 
meaning ‘Om peace, peace, peace’. 


For convenience, | am publishing the mantras of the nine planets of Vedic Astrology in 
nine separate eBooks. Put together, the length was too great but | am combining them all in 
the printed version. To find the eBook for another planet, visit YogaOfThePlanets.com. There 
you can also find information on the audio of the recitation of the mantras. | have on occasion 
given these to clients to listen to when that planet was afflicted in their chart with very posi- 
tive results. 


FIND YOUR PERSONAL MANTRAS 


A great secret being released with this book is how to find the best mantras for you 
from the list of 108. This secret has been closely kept by a few Indian Astrologers and | am in- 
debted to my teacher, Pandit Sanjay Rath, for enlightening me about this. 


It is very simple. The reason why there are 108 mantras for the planets as well as such 
lists for the deities is because the zodiac is naturally divided into 108 segments. 108 is said 
to be the number of Shree, the Goddess of prosperity. Astrologically, it is our whole world. 
For example, the name of a new born child is often given based on the Moon’s place in these 
divisions. 


It is not only the Moon that is important. The Sun is very important and all the other 
planets of Vedic Astrology can be key. It all depends on our chart. Whatever the chart, doing 
the mantra for the position of a planet can be very beneficial. It will resonate with us and thus 
has extra energy. 


There are a number of approaches for finding a powerful mantra for you or for a client, 
student or friend. The first | describe requires no astrology and the others are connected to 
the actual positions of the planets. For those with an interest in Vedic Astrology, this can be- 
come quite detailed as we drill down on the relationship between different planets. Therefore, 
a chapter on advanced applications is to be found in the printed version of the book. Here we 
give the easy astrological applications. 


However you arrive at a mantra, please pay attention to the caveat mentioned in the 
previous section. 


Method One, the Random Number 


Picking a random number may sound an unlikely idea but it is something that many 
prognostic systems employ, including the Vedic Astrology method of answering questions. 
This technique often gives clear insights. If you are calm and quietly focused, then nature 
talks to you and one way of facilitating this is picking a number. There are really two situations, 
finding a number for oneself and finding one for another. For example, if you are a Yoga 
teacher whose student wants a mantra or someone sharing with a friend. 


Suppose you want a random number for yourself and do not want to imagine a number 
out of 108. You can get three single digit numbers by picking numbers you see. One way is to 
open a book and take the final digit of the page number and do this three times. For example, 
suppose you open a book at random three times and get pages 21, 143 and 79. Pick the final 
digits which would be 1, 3 and 9. Write down these digits to form a number 139 and adjust 


to the desired range by subtracting 108. In this example, 139 — 108 = 31. Of course, you can 
come up with many alternate ways of getting a number. 


My astrological software Shri Jyoti Stare gives a random number. In the Data Entry 
screen, click ‘Enter Number’. If you are asked about ‘Replacing the current chart...’ click Yes 
or No. In the next screen, make sure the Range is set to 108 and you will see a random num- 
ber is given to you. 


If there is another person involved, one can ask them for a number. This often works. 
What we want is a number between 1 and 108. If the person gives us a number larger than 
108, we can keep subtracting 108 until we get a number in the desired range. For example, if 
they say 250, then subtracting 108 twice (216) gives 34. However, we may feel that the person 
is interpreting our answer to mean a single digit number only or perhaps knows the system 
we are using too well and may be biased towards certain numbers. Then we can ask for three 
single digit numbers as in the method described just above but we can write them down in re- 
verse order. This is just a suggestion, in reality we can use any scheme that we like. 


A separate app for this book is planned, which will do both random number and astro- 
logical calculations (information will be posted on YogaOfThePlanets.com). 


Method Two, Using the Astrological Chart 


The following is how to find the number for your natal Moon (or any planet). First, find 
out the sidereal position from any software, for example Shri Jyoti Star. In the current version 
7, it will also give you the mantra number next to the planet glyphs in charts. The planned app 
for this book will also give the number (see YogaOfThePlanets.com) but it is easy to do it by 
hand if one has the planet position. Examples are given below. 


In the table following, look up the planet position and find the number. Note, the table 
is at the end of this section and it is quite narrow to facilitate reading on narrow screens. If you 
still cannot see the whole width of the table, rotate your device to Landscape or pinch in until 
you can see the whole table. 


For example, suppose the planet is at Virgo 5 degrees. 5° is between 3°20’ and 6°40' 
so look in the second column of numbers under 6°40’ in the row for Virgo. You will find the 
number 47. Then look in the book for the mantra numbered 47. In the main text, the number 
is given at the start of the commentary, after the mantra. In the lists at the end, the mantra fol- 
lows the number. For the Moon, the mantra for 47 is ‘om muktidaya namah’. 


This is the simplest application of the rule where the number is counted from the start 
of the zodiac. This can be called ‘God’s view’ as the beginning of the zodiac is the beginning 
of the chart from the point of view of the Creator. Thus, it is very powerful. However, there 
are other views. There is the count from the Moon, which gives the social or personal view. 


There is the count from the Sun, which is like the view from our soul. Another important 
count is from the Ascendant, which relates to the body and health. Reciting the mantra we 
get from this count may help our health but if we feel sick we should always consult a medi- 
cal professional. 


We can make a count from any of the planets as the starting point. In Jyotisna (Vedic 
Astrology) there are systems of planetary cycles (periods), especially the famous Vimshottari 
Dasha system. All Vedic Astrology software like Shri Jyoti Star give these cycles too. Even 
some Western Astrology software or online software give them. For example, you might be 
running a Venus Moon cycle and subcycle. That means you are in the major cycle of Venus 
and the minor cycle of the Moon (called a Bhukti). In this example, one can count from Venus 
to the Moon and use the mantra from the Moon list. 


For example, let us find the mantra for the Moon from the perspective of the Sun. Let 
us suppose the Sun is at 8°10’ Leo and the Moon is at 4°30’ Sagittarius. First find the number 
for the Sun from the table as we did above, which is 39, and then the number for the Moon 
from the table which is 74, as 4°30’ is greater than 3°20’ and less than 6°40’. Now subtract 39 
from 74 and add 1, which gives you 36. Then find mantra 36 in the mantra list for the Moon. 
We add 1 because if both planets have the same number, the answer has to be 1, there is no 
mantra for zero. If the subtraction gives a negative value, just add 108 to the result. 


Now you know how to find key mantras for your chart in general and for your Dasha cy- 
cles. | recommend you start with ‘God’s view’ as this can be considered the most important. 


(The table is on the next page) 


Degrees up to 


Sign 3° 6° 40% “1380 “46? <20% 93% BE --30° 
20’ 40’ 20’ = 40’ 20’ = 40’ 

Aries 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 

Taurus 10. ~=«11 12 13 14 15 16 #17 ~ 18 

Gemini 19 20 21 22 23 24 2 26 27 


Cancer 28 29 30 ~~ 31 32 33 34 35 36 


Leo 37 38 39 40 = 41 42 43 44 45 
Virgo 46 47 48 49 50 51 52 5354 
Libra 55 56 «57 58 59 #60 61 62 63 


Scorpio 64 65 66 67 68 69 70 71 72 
Sagittarius 73 74 15 7 77 78 79 ~=©680-~—St—s«éO83211 
Capricorn 82 83 84 85 86 87 88 89 90 
Aquarius 91 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 
Pisces 100 101 102 103 104 105 106 107 108 


THe AsTROLOGICAL Houses 


In various places in this book you will find reference to houses or places from some 
important personal marker such as the Ascendant or the Moon. The simplest and traditional 
way of understanding this is in terms of the 12 signs of the zodiac, Aries, Taurus, etc. If 
the Moon is in Taurus, then Taurus is the first house or place from the Moon. Gemini is the 
second. Aries is the twelfth, etc. One only has to count round by signs. The Ascendant is in 


the sign rising on the Eastern horizon at the time of birth. 


THE JOURNEY 


On March 3rd 1995, | entered the sacred and tranquil valley surrounding the small 
village of Kollur. | had fostered a desire to visit here for eight years since a friend told me about 
it. | did not know why | felt this connection but when | was finally able to travel to India | set 
my heart on reaching that place. It seemed very special and | must have feared going straight 
there in case my energy was unprepared. | chose to go first to Tamil Nadu on the opposite 


coast and to the great temple of Rameshvaram. 


Rameshvaram is on the spit of land opposite Sri Lanka. This is the place Shri Rama 
worshipped Lord Shiva before launching his campaign to recover his wife Sita from the 
demon king. To cross the ocean, his army of monkeys and bears built a bridge or causeway 
across the ocean. This was many thousands of years ago but, amazingly, the remains of a 
causeway to Sri Lanka are still visible in satellite photos. According to temple records, Shit 
Rama’s bridge was passable being completely above the sea until destroyed by a cyclone in 
1480 AD. 


From Rameshvaram, | visited the great temple of Minakshi and thence to the very tip of 
India, Kanyakumari. This place has remarkable temples especially that of the Virgin Goddess. 
| rose and went at 3:30 am and was almost alone in witnessing the bathing of the Goddess in 
milk. It was the Full Moon day. A little later | did homage to the shrine for the Navagraha and 
received a distinct blessing. Prior to that | had done some study of Jyotisha but had received 
no authority from any Guru or other source to study and practice. This was a most unex- 


pected Grace. 


From Kanyakumari, | travelled up the Kerala coast visiting Ashrams and temples until 
| came to Kollur. It was a great moment, though for no obvious reason at all. Kollur is home 
to the famous temple of Devi Mookambika, the Goddess of the mouth. It is said she grants 
blessings related to the voice and the arts. Most evenings, artists from all over India come to 


perform before her. They sing, dance and play instruments. 


At the time | knew nothing about this temple. | did not know that astrologers from all 
over South India come here to pray and do penance for Vak Siddhi, the power that whatever 
one says proves true. After all, people expect an astrologer to have this power. While, in rare 
cases, it is possible that a person is born with this, generally it only arises after long and sin- 
cere spiritual practice. This is why Vedic Astrology, Jyotisha, is primarily a spiritual discipline 


and one should seek a guru or gurus to guide one’s spiritual and intellectual development. 


The essence of success in an earthly endeavour is the Grace of the Goddess and for 


each aspirant there is some form that appeals to him or her and which can grant success. 


There are rules for finding this form but ultimately it is very personal. | should make it clear that 
talk of gods and goddesses does not conflict with the monotheistic view because the Vedic 
view is that the One takes whatever form we desire or can be approached as purely formless 
if that is our path. 


The worship of the Goddess in India is, at its peak, related to the Shri Vidya and the 
Shri Chakra. The great sage and teacher Adi Shankaracharya installed a Shri Chakra under 
the deity in the Mookambika temple. After some time in Kollur, | came to know that he also 
installed a Shri Chakra at the top of the highest mountain nearby where the root shrine of 
the Goddess is to be found. Part of the pilgrimage is to walk to the top of this mountain. It 
is about 12 miles or one can take the bus part of the way and walk the last 3-4 hours. | had 
many extraordinary experiences on this mountain as well as in the temple, which | will write 
about elsewhere. 


While | was staying at the temple, somehow | conceived of this book. It seemed to me 
that the sets of 108 names of the Grahas (planets) were important and used by astrologers 
but | could find no trace of a translation or commentary. So | started making notes. When | 
could not understand a word, | discussed it with my friend UmaShankar Jois who is one of the 
distinguished priests at the temple. He studied Jyotisha with a great Guru though he passed 
away before my friend’s studies were complete. UmaShankar is a great expert in the remedial 
measures and he felt | had some knowledge on the analysis of charts so we spent a lot of time 
discussing Jyotisha together. 


I stayed at Kollur for more than 40 days, as is the custom, and then went for Shivaratri 
in Varanasi. This is the greatest festival for Lord Shiva and Varanasi is considered the city of 
Shiva, and is one of the most profound places to celebrate it. As | was about to leave Kollur, 
| went to the temple to take Her leave to go. The priests put me at the front during the Arti 
(ritual waving of lights before the shrine), which is the peak of the evening worship. Then | got 
on the bus to go to Bangalore where | could catch a train for the North. 


As it happened, the conductor of this bus was part of a ring of thieves who stole the 
luggage of innocents like me. | arrived in Bangalore without anything, all my notes were gone. 
Still | managed to continue my journey and reached Varanasi, the great city of Shiva, at 4 am 
on Shivaratri. | washed and went straight to the temple having no luggage to concern me. 
Standing in the queue | noticed that | was the only male wearing traditional clothing. There 
was a guard on the door and they often turn ‘tourists’ away. He looked me over for a while 
and then enthusiastically said ‘om namah Ssivaya’ and waived me in. 


The next year, | returned to Kollur with another notebook. | started by writing down all 
that | remembered and naturally found that my understanding had improved over the year and 
quickly was ahead of my previous work. When | left Kollur after another 40+ days | had just 


a few names which | could not decipher. | visited Prof. Ramachandra Rao in Bangalore who 
was one of the two people that | found who had published the lists of the names. We had an 
interesting discussion. He was a very great scholar. Unfortunately, he has now passed away. 
Travelling through India | met many good scholars who kindly gave me their opinions so the 
meanings became clear. Since then, from time to time | wrote my small commentary. It re- 


flects many stages in my own spiritual life. | hope you enjoy it. 


In 2007, | visited a small house a few miles north of the great Konark temple. This 
temple, though now partially ruined, was perhaps India’s greatest temple to the Sun god. It 
is built like a giant chariot. Some of the carvings are now in the British Museum including 
the large carvings of the nine Grahas (planets). The Konark temple stands near the beach in 
the North Eastern part of India’s V shape so is one of the first places to see the rays of the 
rising Sun. Konark is some 20 miles north of Puri where the great Jagannatha temple of Lord 
Krishna is to be found administered by the Shankaracharya of the East. He is charged with 


maintaining the Rig Veda, accepted as humanity’s oldest recorded wisdom text. 


About 500 years ago, the great spiritual teacher Chaitanya Mahaprabhu resided here 
and the lineages derived from him are still very widespread today, such as ISKCON. He had 
five ‘sakhas’ or friends, as they were called, one of which was Swami Achyutananda. The 
Swami was initiated by the great teacher at an early age and went on to become the King’s 
astrologer, a noted author of over 200 books and an enlightened sage. He also founded 13 
schools in the region. These taught various sciences and several were dedicated to Jyotisha. 
When he was leaving his body, he promised to remain in a ‘shunya’ form. Shunya means the 
void and it is a term he explained in great depth in one of his books. It does not refer to mere 


nothingness but to a profound state of Being. 


He kept his promise and even today you can go and consult him. That is where | was 
going. There is a small shrine and next to it are the quarters of a pandit who keeps and 
interprets a set of copper plates (tamra poti). These plates only contain some drawings like 
the shape of a lotus, but when you enter there with a question in your mind, the answer 
appears written in ancient Odia (the local language 500 years ago) and the pandit reads them 
for you. If you look, you can actually see the writing appear. | went there with several friends, 
all of whom were students of Pandit Sanjay Rath who is the last remaining person carrying 
the knowledge of the Jyotisha schools founded by the Swami. In effect, we had joined his 
lineage. The answers we got were remarkably pertinent and insightful. We were all given 
mantras. | later talked to a colleague who has taken over 40 people there and he said no one 


had ever been given a mantra. 


The Swami told me to finish my book. | noticed that when | did the mantra, | would 


work more on this text. | hope he forgives me for the long time spent in fulfilling his instruction 


but perhaps | or the time was not ripe before now. This year (2015) marks the 20th year since 
| started and only this year did | make the important discovery about the Vimshottari Dasha 
which is published in this book. In the derivation of the Vimshottari Dasha cycles or periods, 


the great significance of 20 years is revealed. 


The name of the Sun temple is from Kona + Arka. Arka is a name of the Sun and 
Kona means trine. In Jyotisha, this indicates the Dharma Trikona, the sustainer of life, which | 
have written about in many places in this book and is so important in the interpretation of the 


Vimshottari Dasha. 


NOTES ON PRONOUNCIATION FROM THE TRANSLITERATION 


In the transliteration, there are marks called diacriticals that aid correct pronunciation. 


In Sanskrit there are long and short syllables. The long ones are to be sounded for 
twice as long as the short ones, even longer is OK. Vowels with a line over them like ‘a’ and 
double vowels like ‘ai’ are all long. ‘h’ (h with a dot under it) is pronounced like ‘ah’, that is 
with aspiration. It is often pronounced as ‘ahah’ but this is not recommended for mantras as 
it effectively adds another syllable and the syllable count of a mantra is important. ‘s’ with an 


acute accent is like ‘sh’. For example, ‘Sukrah’ is pronounced ‘shukrah’. 


Consonants or sibilants with a dot under them like t or s are retroflex. For example, t is 
pronounced as the ‘t’ in Tom. You curl your tongue back and strike your palate. ‘t’ on the other 
hand is a dental sound. ‘th’ is ‘t’ with some aspiration as are all the other syllables that have 


an ‘h’ like ‘bh’, ‘dh’ and ‘gh’. You just blow a little when saying the consonant. 


The ‘r’ such as in ‘brhat’ is a vowel in Sanskrit pronounced like the ‘ry’ in jewelry. ‘c’ is 
pronounced as ‘ch’, as in ‘change’. In the commentary, | usually use ‘ch’. If ‘ch’ appears in the 
transliteration, then it is like ‘chh’, which is ‘ch’ with some extra aspiration. 


Please visit a Sanskrit learning web site or teacher for more detailed advice. One good 
site is learnsanskrit.org. 


The Devanagari (Sanskrit) support on a PC is excellent but may not be so perfect on 
mobile devices. Older Kindle devices and other eReaders may not show it at all. One can al- 


ways check against the transliteration, which should be correct. 


Please note that the first time part of a mantra is mentioned in the following text, it is 
italicized. Sanskrit terms in the commentaries are often transliterated but not always accord- 
ing to the more rigorous scheme. Sometimes the more usual form is followed using the stan- 
dard English alphabet. 


HYMN IN HONOUR OF THE PLANETS 


so Th TUNA Aa: 


om gar ganapataye namah 


Sa HURRAH AM: IM YTHE Sera 
TEM Yr: Walghda: Fs Wer: WA HU Fadil 


brahma muraristripurantakarl bhanuh Sast 
bhiUmisuto budhasca | 
gurusca Sukrah Sanirahuketavah sarve grahah 


Santi kara bhavantu || 


Brahma (the Creator), Murari (Vishnu, the Sustainer), Tripurantakarin (Siva, the slayer of the 
demon Tripurasura), Bhanu (the Sun), Shashin (the Moon), Bhimisuta (Mars, the son of the 
Earth), Budha (Mercury), Guru (Jupiter), Shukra (Venus), Shani (Saturn), Rahu and Ketu, may 


all these Grahas be peaceful. 


Venus, SHUKRA 


Xo YT AH: 


om sukraya namah 


1. Salutations to the essence of any entity. 


Whatever is the finest, most refined or most precious of or in any animate or inanimate 
3 Hi Ali ape Ta pt sk rca ee s-SP we l  p eue m.  n p So'0Tk ht Sb rn py gs ae Sl ts ee aap a een 
entity is Shukra. In the human body, Shukra is the ovum in the female and the semen in the 


male. Ayurveda calls these the finest products of metabolism. 


x0 Tas AH: 


om sucaye namah 


2. Undefiled, pure. 


Translations of Shuchi include clean, pure, bright, white, resplendent, virtuous, pious, 
holy, purified, cleansed, hallowed, honest, upright, faithful, true, guileless, correct, accurate, 
innocent, living as a celibate for the sake of clarity of mind, and the sentiment of true love. 


Thus, Venus indicates purity and essence. Life and happiness depend on our essence 
being pure. Anything that disturbs purity or healthiness disturbs the external first. Then, if 
permitted, it goes deeper. When it reaches the deepest level, there is the danger of life-threat- 
ening disease. In the ancient science of Ayurveda, there are said to be seven Dhatus or tissue 
levels from which the body is constructed. On the outer level there is the blood, which directly 
receives what we eat. The innermost element is called Shukra and is associated with the 
reproductive tissue. Ayurvedic purification treatments, such as Panchakarma, traditionally go 
in cycles of seven days because of these seven levels. Just as impurities penetrate through 
the seven levels, so purification has to work through to the Shukra level to really cleanse our 


whole system. 


Venus is exalted in Pisces. Being a sign of Jupiter, this is where love can turn into deep 
devotion. This placement of Venus, peaking at the omm degree, transcends seifishness and 
opens the doors to a spirit of unconditional acceptance of all. At its best, it sees everything 
as the Grace of God. 


The sign of Virgo is the sixth sign of the zodiac and is thus associated with the sixth 


house of health and healing. Venus is debilitated in Virgo. Virgo’s agenda is to seek the 
S.Highiighters:+--22<2"<s:-ss<ssesee+<sse5ee% 2 
sacred, to locate the pure within the impure and thus move from the dross of the material 


towards the high state represented by Venus in Pisces. Even though Virgo feels strong desire, 
it can reject the indulgence of this as unsuited to its quest for purity. If it is to enjoy pleasure, 
then an appropriate space is sought which feels sacred. Thus, the flow of desire can be 
obstructed and Venus might appear weak but it is not defiled and can give powerful results 
if well placed in the chart. This is certainly true if Venus is with Mercury or either Mercury or 


Jupiter is strongly placed in an angle of the Vedic chart. 


30 BTU AH: 


om Ssubhagunaya namah 


3. Having auspicious (Shubha) qualities (Guna). One whose essence is pure displays many 


auspicious qualities. 


xo BATA AA: 
om subhadaya namah 


4. Bringing auspiciousness and all good. 


Venus is said to be the greatest benefic in Maharishi Parashara’s great work. In another 
place, Jupiter is said to be the greatest. It all depends on the context. Jupiter helps one if one 
follows his rules, such as being truthful. Venus is less demanding but one must respect all the 
expressions of the feminine principle. 


do ITAA AA: 


om subhalaksanaya namah 


5. The very principle of auspiciousness and beneficience. 


Laksana means both a principle and a mark or token. In South India, they have devel- 
oped the science of Prashna or answering questions based on Laksana or indications. | was 
once sitting with a leading temple priest and | had found that his birth Nakshatra was different 
from what he had always understood. Given that the birth Nakshatra is of great importance 
and mentioned at the beginning of all religious rites, this was quite significant. At the moment 
| informed him, someone came up and put some beautiful red flowers on the table for us, the 
kind of flowers offered to the Goddess in his temple. Immediately, a local astrologer sitting 
with us said ‘Shubha Laksana’ — auspicious mark — showing that what had just been said 
must be true. 


An astrologer must always watch out for Laksanas, auspicious or otherwise. Those 


approaching astrologers should also pay attention. For example, if you meet an astrologer 
and think of asking a question, do so with some gift, even small. Many astrologers depend on 
what they are given when a question is asked to see whether the outcome will be favourable 
for the questioner. If nothing is offered, the answer is simple. If nothing is given, how can it in- 


dicate that one will be about to receive one’s desired object? 


This name can also mean an auspicious aim or ambition as well as an auspicious 


cause. 


Xo WTA AA: 


om sobhanaksaya namah 


6. Having effulgent knowledge or beautiful eyes. 


Shobana is shining, effulgent. Aksa is an eye, the axle of the chariot, the bead of a 
rosary or Japa Mala, or one’s knowledge. All of these meanings are relevant. People with a 
3 tghhghterge:- +e 

strong Venus may have beautiful eyes, classy vehicles, be fond of the use of Japa Mala and/ 


Venus is like a beautiful eye or bead shining in the heavens. Of all the planets, Venus 
shines the brightest. We have known for some time that it has thick white clouds that reflect 
the sunlight but now we know that some of the mountains on Venus have a thin metallic 
coating making them perfect reflectors. The sense here is that Venus is brightest at night. As 
the ruler over romance, this is very apt. In Vedic Astrology, Venus and the Sun are enemies. 
In the laws of Manu (Manu Smriti), it says that conjugal relations should be kept for the night. 


Somehow, under the Sun’s eye, it seems less appropriate. 


When someone has Venus and the Sun conjunct at the time of birth, the soul as 
indicated by the Sun is influenced by Venus and there are artistic and sensual tendencies, 
but at the same time a tension and wariness of the sensual may exist. The Sun, which is 
naturally single and beyond the senses, is always suspicious of Venus and can try to reject 
her influence. This can cause an inner conflict. It is often best for someone with a close Sun 
Venus conjunction to find another person with this combination. Then there can be a greater 


mutual understanding. 


The next name is from another list so can be omitted if reciting a 108 name set. 


Xo TST AA: 
om subhagrahaya namah 


6b. An auspicious planet. 


Graha means to seize as in the English word ‘grasp’. We translate it as ‘planet’ but it is 
not a good translation. The Sanskrit gives us the real idea, that this intelligence acting as an 
agency of our self-created Karma — the effects of our past actions — pushes us in certain di- 


rections. Shubha means auspicious. Venus can give enjoyable and consonant results. 


All the Grahas of Vedic Astrology, aside from the Moon, fall into two camps, those that 
2 Highlighters c==--=-a2 soso cco SO esi sina -leiso5 55 = sce aG ies o cn ce cSas HS ic as asians Bok + Kia tas ts sere seis sissies sisi 53 
sustain life and its pore and those that promote transformation. We call these groups 


om subhravahaya namah 


7. Bearing a brilliant white radiance. 


Shubhra can also mean shining, beautiful and spotless in the sense of one whose 
reputation is unsullied. Those with a strong and unafflicted Venus, are both charismatic and of 
high reputation. This also warns us that afflictions to Venus can indicate the risk of damage to 
one’s reputation, like a politician being caught having an affair. Venus is very delicate and so 
it is quite rare that it is entirely unafflicted. Hence the popularity of the saying, ‘People in glass 


houses should not throw stones.’ 


What is meant by affliction? This can get more complicated but the typical case is 
when Venus is conjoined with another planet, particularly Mars, Saturn, Rahu or Ketu. Each of 
these combinations can give certain abilities but can also cause some complexities in those 


areas that these names describe. Relationships, especially, may face difficulties. 


As Venus is so prone to affliction, it is most valuable to try to remedy Venus. This 
mantra like the others in this list, could help. If we meditate on its implications, we may 
become less willing to obscure our radiance with any dark acts, even thoughts. There is a 
wonderful passage in the Holy Bible, Matthew 5:21-22 — “Ye have heard that it was said 
by them of old time, ‘Thou shalt not kill’; and whosoever shall kill shall be in danger of the 
judgment. But | say unto you, that whosoever is angry with his brother shall be in danger of 
the judgment.” The clear point here is that harbouring anger inside is a crime just like com- 


4: Highlighters, 2222-42327 2545 => so 5c ess cca aee oe coe estas sen Rare Sete a ae Sees en tesa ageh oe ssesetes 
mitting a terrible act. 


After all, whatever one feels inside, projects outside and influences the world. Part of 
this is that one is less kind and gracious when one is angry, even when one does not explicitly 
say angry things. Part of it is that anger, like all emotions radiates out from the brain and 
others around pick it up. We know nature is influenced because pets and other animals are 
clearly affected by the moods of people. Some say, even plants are affected. Because emo- 


tion radiates, many people together share their mood and amplify it for good or otherwise. 


Anger is like fire. Love and friendliness are like water. The two elements are not friends. 
Fighting wears away and ultimately destroys relationships. If Mars is strong in one, then fight- 
ing comes easily. If Venus is strong, then one has a more watery tendency. One loves to love. 
Life is full of the dance between these two. Mars promotes career while Venus strengthens 
the home. Life requires balance and these mantras are one of the gifts of the ancients to help 


us promote balance. 


Vaha means bearing and also a vehicle. Venus rules over vehicles and indicates espe- 


cially the more luxurious as indicated by Shubhra — beautiful, splendid and shining. 


30 YeeMiemyreayy AA: 


om Suddhasphatikabhasvaraya namah 


8. Shining with or like pure crystal. 


The gem for Venus is the diamond due to its sparkling beauty and costliness but 
pure crystal is another suitable gem. It is said that wearing a crystal necklace can help keep 
one’s purity. It is more than simply an example of purity. Thus one should avoid crystals with 


blemishes. 


If one has many negative thoughts, after some time one’s crystal may need replacing 
as it absorbs one’s vibrations. - one Ac get a crystal Mala or rosary blessed by an enlight- 


ig 
ened or pure person, especially a onan then this is very fortunate. 


30 ETateltenra AA: 


om dinartiharakaya namah 


9. Destroying the misery of poverty. 


Venus can bring much good luck and wealth without really trying for it. Venus is not 
fond of labour so it will not be rewarding effort. Venus gives charisma and this is a kind of 
beauty. Anything beautiful commands a high price but one should be aware that when one 


takes money for beauty, the beauty has to be given away. True beauty comes from Jupiter 
3 Highlighters -----------------2eeeeeeeer rere 


and the Moon, both of which are Sattvic planets while Venus is Rajasic. Sattvic means 
naturally fulfilled, not seeking gratification, while Rajasic means constantly and endlessly 
seeking it. Thus the Grahas that make one go looking for satisfaction are incapable of giving it 
to one. aie alas: planets are Venus, who causes one to seek sensory pleasure, and Mercury 
(Budha), wh wl o runs after money as well as intellectual knowledge. Both make promises regard- 
ing fulfilment but neither have the capacity to deliver. After the Rajas subsides and one’s mind 
settles, unless one falls asleep (Tamasic, dullness), fulfilment can arise. This simple truth of 
Jyotisha helps one see that the great driving force of worldly activities is an empty shell ap- 


parently offering a lot but delivering little. 


Venus with Rahu can indicate issues related to chastity. Of course, this does not mean 
that everyone with this in his or her birth chart behaves like this. Such action depletes beauty. 
Even if it brings wealth in the short term, later it brings trouble. It is the purity of Venus, which 
is the favour of the Goddess, that brings useful wealth as well as protection. That is why, in 
the ancient cultures of India and China, destroying the purity of a person was a strategy of 
war. In China they would desecrate the graves of the ancestors. In ancient India, the favourite 
means was seduction of the wife. Venus signifies spouse but also all that pertains to birth 
and rebirth and hence the ancestral graves. Anything that causes an inauspicious omen is an 
affliction to Venus. Such things can be prevented by very serious worship of the Goddess be- 
sides ordinary precautions. 


It is very interesting to consider Venus in its own signs as well as in Pisces, its sign of 
exaltation. Venus is exalted in Jupiter's sign at the end of the 12 signs. This gives us the clue 
that it is the purity of life that brings final emancipation or true enlightenment and that purity 
comes from loveliness being guided by wisdom (Jupiter). Exalted Venus is not about being a 
great artist as it can be when the planet is in its own sign. Nor is it about wealth or any of the 
other material benefits that the world runs after her for. 


Xo CoS AH: 


om daityagurave namah 


10. The Guru of the demons. 


Venus, except when it is exalted, rules over the wisdom of the world. Venus is as much 
of a great savant as Jupiter. In the Vedic stories, both Brhaspati (Jupiter) and Shukra (Venus) 
are great enlightened and immortal souls. Brhaspati became the Guru of the divine powers 
while the creator appointed Shukra to be the Guru of the demonic elements. Shukra is the 
son of Bhrigu, the great Vedic Rishi or seer. His story is found in the Yoga Vasistha, one of the 
greatest of the Vedantic texts. For a while Bhrigu lost his son because, deep in contemplation, 


Shukra followed a celestial nymph to the heavens and became lost in romancing her discon- 
nected from his earthly body. Eventually, exhausted, he fell down and passed through many 


different bodies until being reborn as a yogi by the Ganges. 


Bhrigu, who was also meditating, came out of his inward state to find his son’s body 
lying dead. At this he became upset and threatened to curse Kala, time personified, the god 
of death. This shows how even the wise can be deluded. Kala calmed him and showed him 
where his son was and all the lives through which he had passed. They were reunited and 
Shukra returned to his old body, regenerating it. Kala blessed Shukra and told him he would 


come to be the perpetual preceptor of the Daityas, which we usually translate as demons. 


Mostly, those with demonic tendencies have no interest in advice. Selfishness is 
demonic. The selfish go for advice when they want something that they cannot simply take, 
otherwise they will not listen. So Shukracharya (Acharya = teacher) only teaches when ap- 
proached. The gods and the demons are always fighting. The gods drink the Soma, the nectar 
of immortality and remain immortal. For more on Soma, see the chapter on the Moon. The 
demons are killed in the war so an appeal is made to Shukra who uses a special remedy to 


restore them to life. 


This is just the cycle of birth, death and rebirth. We die but because we are still trying 
to be something or to know, possess or do something, we are given another body. This is 
the gift of Shukra. Shukra, turned outward or expressed in the service of self-interest, leads 
to the cycle of life and rebirth. Refined Shukra, such as Shukra under the influence of Jupiter 
(exemplified by the exaltation of Venus in Pisces, Jupiter’s sign), cultivates Soma and leads 


towards divinity. 


Similarly, Shukra rules over the finest substance in the body, the reproductive tissue 
and the very essence of the body that holds everything together. Venus, in the sixth house 
or afflicted can indicate some problems here and help should be taken of Ayurveda to 
strengthen the Shukra Dhatu (the finest tissue level). Out of the Shukra Dhatu develops Ojas, 
the finest element in the material field, which is the physical correlate of Soma. As Ojas 
increases in someone, his or her face shines. Gradually the whole body starts to glow. If 
this continues for a long time the whole system refines and the grosser elements gradually 
become transformed into their finer subtle constituents. If this continues for a very long time, 
much longer than the current human life span, then the body would no longer be visible by 


the ordinary coarse eyesight and the human would become divine. 


What | have just described is relative physical immortality. This knowledge comes from 
the Vedas where it is described how Bhrigu, the father of Shukra, and other Rishis gradually 
became immortal through constantly ‘retiring’ from the gross to the subtle and back to the 


gross, integrating them. It is said that they went to heaven, a little before they were completely 


refined. The heavenly beings sensed something was wrong and used smell to detect them 


because smell is the characteristic of the earth element, the coarsest of the elements. 


Psychically, Moksha or enlightenment, brings the opening of a subtle flow of Soma 
that gradually transforms the body while rendering the consciousness immortal — that is the 
person knows that the essence of consciousness is unchanging and that knowing or con- 
sciousness remains throughout waking, dreaming and sleeping. This is the fourth state or 


Turiya, literally ‘the fourth’ in Sanskrit, that which transcends all change and is thus immortal. 


When one physically dies, one enters into the light on whatever level one has attained. 
When Moksha dawns, the same thing happens on a very high level. The seed of conscious- 
ness, the Shakti rises up the subtle channel of Susumna in the spine and, reaching the crown, 
merges in the infinite light. Thus one starts to enjoy the blessed state of the divine beings and 


the demonic cycle of birth and death ends. 


xo taHaraaw AA: 


om devabhivanditaya namah 


11. Intensely worshipped by the gods. 


One might wonder why the Guru of the demons is worshipped by the gods but in the 
light of what we have just discussed, this is easy to understand. The divine ones are con- 
stantly meditating on that most refined essence of everything, which Shukra represents at its 
highest. Deva is that which illuminates and thus the Devas are intrinsic to the process of ex- 


perience. Shukra or Venus rules over the processes of perception. 


Unless one perceives and experiences, the purpose of the Devas is not fulfilled. That 
is why even the gods are not free of desire. The notion of unrestricted indulgence in heaven, 
found in various religions, arises from this. On the subtlest level, where the Devas exist, 
there are no obstructions to perception and experience. To reach that place, the purity of the 


senses has to be profoundly cultivated. 


30 THloaawla Aa: 


om kavyasaktaya namah 


12. Having unobstructed (Asakta) wisdom (Kavya). 


Kavya is also intelligence and prophetic inspiration. It is poesy and also happiness 
and welfare. Asakta either means fondness (asakta) for wisdom or that he can work without 


attachment (asakta) to his accomplishments. This mental state means there is no limit to his 


wisdom and insight. 


30 HATA AA: 


om kamapalaya namah 


13. Protecting the cupid or the energy of desire (Kama). 


Also, the one who shepherds the desires. This tells us that Venus represents desire 
and shows all about love and enjoyment in a horoscope. Venus manages and directs our 
desires. While one may have assumed that, here it is made explicit. Since this name appears 
between two names referring to the arts, it is clear that the arts, even in Vedic times, express 
the waves of desire in various delightful ways. Many people are familiar with the extraordinary 
sculptures found in many older Indian temples including various erotic scenes. It was not 
considered an offence against religion in those days. Rather, these sculptures were put on the 
outside walls of the temple. The ancients looked at the temple as a projection of the cosmos. 
God, absolute purity, abided at its heart, a little further out were lesser divinities representing 
the bureaucracy of the Cosmic Government and the outer wall represented the senses fully 
turned outwards and fully indulging in the material side of nature. Thus these carvings were 
part of a profound teaching and not a profanity. The layers of the temple represent all the 
places we can put our attention. 


While Venus, who is associated with love, and Jupiter, who is the guardian of religion, 
are not friends, they still have to coexist. If Jupiter exists within (the temple) as the symbol 
of God and Venus is found on the outer walls representing the worldly delights, then there 
is a realistic presentation of the natural state of life. We should be divine within and enjoying 
without; that would be both healthy and natural. However, when the pendulum swings too far 
one way, it has to swing back, so in the dark age we find ourselves born in, there is a clamour 


from both extremes making it quite difficult to live a natural and healthy life. 


a0 Had AA: 
om kavaye namah 
14. A poet (Kavi). 


Venus rules over poets, poesy and all romantic and harmonic expressions. Other 


meanings are given in another use of this name below (Venus 89). 


30 Heuer AA: 


om kalyanadayakaya namah 


15. Granting happiness, virtue, good fortune and agreeableness. 


Kalyana covers a multitude of goodness and blessings. Amongst all the blessings 
Venus can represent, surely the highest is pure love and affection. Who is not looking for or, 
at least, grateful for that? We can meditate on this mantra in the centre of the chest and it 
may help the heart open more and more. Do it without making any effort for any result. We 
can reach a state where the heart is perpetually resting in an ocean of love. This is an inde- 


scribable blessing. 


so YEU AA: 


om bhadramutrtaye namah 


16. Good, happy, prosperous, foremost, best, chief, favourable, propitious, kind, gracious, 
excellent, friendly, good, pleasant, enjoyable, lovely, beautiful, laudable, praiseworthy, 


beloved, dear. These are all related to the word Bhadra and Murti is the embodiment of that. 


If Venus is afflicted, this name could even indicate a tendency to be specious, or 
hypocritical. If one sees that one has these tendencies or lack the others mentioned above, 
one may suspect that Venus was afflicted at one’s birth. Such a situation can be corrected. 
This may require serious worship of the Mother but use of these mantras is a very good start. 
One should also find and regularly do a simple meditation so one gets used to a regular prac- 
tice and reaching a deeply settled state. 


30 FETA AH: 
om bhadragunaya namah 
17. Of excellent qualities. 


All the meanings of Bhadra described in name 16 are Venus’ qualities. Name 16 tells 
us that one with a strong Venus is naturally good, happy and so forth. Here it is saying that 
those qualities are not only inherent but also express in the lives of those with a strong and 


unafflicted Venus. 
30 TATA AH: 
om bhargavaya namah 


18. The son of Bhrigu. (See Venus 10.) 


When we want him to teach and guide us, then this name is good as it reminds him of 


his father, so he looks upon us as his child. Whether we use he or she for Venus makes no 


difference at all. We are approaching an archetype, not a body. Love has no gender. 


30 WHOA AA: 
om bhaktapalanaya namah 


19. One who nourishes and guards the devotees. 


What does it mean to be a devotee of Venus? It indicates one who worships the 
Goddess, who protects women and children, and who cultivates inner purity and the purity 
of the senses. Perhaps, in a particular person, one of these is more obviously expressed but 


they are inherent in each other. 


30 WNTeTa AA: 


om bhogadaya namah 


20. Giving various enjoyments. 


Bhoga is what we eat whether we take it in through the mouth or through the eyes, 
ears, etc. Sometimes we forget that everything we experience, we eat. This expands the 
concept of food and therefore also food poisoning. In the Yoga Sutras (1.4), the great text of 
Yoga, Patafijali tells us that ‘what we see we become’. As we progress in meditation, this be- 
comes increasingly true. When one’s senses are pure, one consumes whatever one sees so 
completely that we know it entirely. That is how saints can see everything about us, even past 
and future lives, from a glance. They are deeply anchored in bliss so they are not disturbed by 
what they see but the aspirant meditator should consider what one exposes oneself to. If one 


takes in something indigestible, one may have to vomit it out. 


This is how various thoughts and feelings, especially strong experiences come up 
in meditation. Therefore, one should not be worried if something intense arises. One has 
certainly experienced much garbage in the long extent of the past and, as they say in the 
computer field, ‘garbage in, garbage out.’ If necessary, feel the physical sensations in the 
body and the mental experience and feelings will pass. This is how purity develops. There is 
no way other than allowing the trash to pass out. It is the same when doing physical cleansing 
like Panchakarma in Ayurveda. Some rough patches may occur. One should not allow this to 
deter one. At the same time, one should ease off our practices if the symptoms are affecting 
daily life. In any case, one should always have a competent mentor to guide one during any 


cleansing process. 


Xo YOATeAa AA: 


om bhuvanadhyaksaya namah 


21. Presiding over the earth. 


Bhuvana is the earth and also the heaven, any world, being(s) or living creature(s), even 
mankind as a whole. This is how Venus can represent kings and political leaders especially 
through the sign Libra which is an active male sign that seeks social justice. Many of the great 
communist leaders gained power through the Venus in their chart and this is why they were 
opposed by the Sagittarian United States. 


Bhuvana is also water and the number 14. Venus’ two signs are Taurus (no. 2) and 
Libra (no. 7), 2 x 7 = 14. The 14 faced Rudraksha (special bead from the Rudraksha tree with 
14 faces) is said to give insight. Venus is the planet of perception and therefore of insight. 
While Venus does not own any water sign, it gains its exaltation in the greatest water sign, 
Pisces, as this sign gives the highest insight. Water is associated with Sattva and fulfilment 
and this is why the planet of desire does not own a water sign. Its desire energy cannot give 
fulfilment because one desire is always followed by another. However, when one tires of de- 
sire and seeks freedom, Venus rises to support that state. 


That is why one cannot abuse freedom. If one tries, it shows that the desire energy is 
still lively and thus one is not truly free. That is why the highest knowledge can only be ob- 
tained by those who have no personal need of it. In that state, one is directed by the Highest 
Power to do whatever one has been born to do and one does it out of spontaneous obedi- 
ence and destiny. That is why we only see true unselfishness in such persons. 


30 yap cane Ta 7A: 


om bhuktimuktiphalapradaya namah 


22. Giving the fruit of enjoyment and liberation. 


This is a famous name of the Goddess. Note that Bhukti, enjoyment, is mentioned 
before Mukti, liberation. First she entertains one’s senses, then everything is taken away in 
order to give freedom (Mukti). Yet the fruit (Pha/a) of that is pure sweetness. 


30 Arosa AA: 


om carusilaya namah 


23. Dear. 


Shila is the very principle of something, in this case dearness. Charu also means 
agreeable, esteemed, beautiful, elegant (see also Mercury 63). This is why Venus represents 
that which is dear to us. Wherever it falls, that shows what we love. There is a technique in 
Jaimini astrology which allows one to see each of the relationships that a person has. Those 
that are touched by Venus, are ones where a real energy of desire or longing can arise. 
However, other factors might make them unviable. On the other hand, a relationship might be 
good in every way except that it does not have the touch of Venus. Generally, in this case one 


will stay in that relationship but still yearn for those failed ones. 


30 WTOC AH: 


om carurupaya namah 


24. Of beautiful form (Rupa). 


Not only is Venus dear but also fascinating. We want to look at it again and again. This 
is the basis of devotion that Venus rules. One cannot be devoted unless one finds the object 
of one’s devotion fascinating. Like everything, devotion has different qualities. The Vedic 
view is to categorize these qualities into Sattva, Rajas and Tamas. We can think of Tamasic 
devotion as primarily a product of laziness or addiction. Rajasic devotion is where one sticks 
to something because one has calculated a net benefit; there is ‘something in it for me’. Ob- 


viously, neither of these have any real stability. 


Sattvic devotion is more internal, doing something or sticking to someone because it 
feels right, or there is a sense of rightness about it regardless of any calculation or difficulty. 
Then there is a fourth kind, which could be called ‘transcendental’ where the attention is more 
and more drawn to one’s own Being. This has many stages from the sporadic to high states of 
divine ecstasy and a continuous state of awakening. Naturally, while many people have small 
tastes of this, only a few seem to get to drink their full of this Grace. It is the longing to taste 
this that leads one to visit holy places and those fortunate ones who appear to have received 
this Grace, perhaps mixed with some hope for relief from suffering. It is said that the holy 


places became holy because such people lived or worshipped there once. 


Similarly, some people pray out of habit, some out of hope to get something, while 
others wisely see prayer as a way of getting closer to that divine taste or touch. There are two 
well-known forms of prayer, repetition using a rosary or Mala and meditation or Dhyan. Dhyan 
is a Sanskrit term and | have heard it explained that the word Zen is derived from Dhyan. It is 


a process which may start with repeating or focusing but lets the mind flow towards silence. It 


is very striking that branches of all the great religions have adopted the use of a rosary, while 
the more advanced members typically turn towards meditation. Some Muslims, Christians, 
Hindus, Buddhists, Sikhs and others use rosaries on a daily basis. 


30 Mea-CAaAaa AA: 
om carucandranibhananaya namah 
25. Beautiful like the Moon. 


Both the Moon and Venus shine brilliantly with a whitish colour. 


ao Teg Aa: 


om nidhaye namah 


26. One endowed with good qualities. 


Literally a treasury of them. 


xo Tahara AH: 
om nikhilasastrajhaya namah 


27. Knower of all scriptures. 


Knowledge of all the scriptures includes knowing all rules and all teachings of all arts 
and sciences, spiritual and material. Shukra (Venus) is a great Brahmin sage and this fully 
applies to him. I’m using the present tense because there is no record of his having died. 
Some of the ancient sages achieved physical immortality and Shukra was the one who had 
this knowledge. 


More importantly, this name like all the others indicates what to expect for any individ- 
ual based on the energy of Venus at their time of birth. A strong Venus will likely make the 
person expert in at least one field. They may know multiple languages, master various instru- 
ments or art forms, or indeed other skills or fields of knowledge. 


so eafaqeytena AA: 
om nitividyadhuramdharaya namah 


28. An expert in the knowledge of right conduct, policy and management. 


Literally carrying the burden of the science of morality, policy, management, and guid- 


ance. Dhuramdhara means bearing the yoke, fit to be harnessed, laden with good qualities 
or important duties, chief, head, foremost or prominent. It indicates a leader, one who bears 
responsibility. Venus represents the leading bureaucrats in the government as well as the 


leaders of the private sector. 


0 Yaa AA: 


om sarvalaksanasampannaya namah 


29. Possessed of all auspicious marks. 


In Vedic times, great importance was placed on auspicious marks on the body. Out 
of this came such studies as palmistry, face reading, etc. Someone is considered physically 
beautiful when the body parts are well-shaped and healthy. This is a lesser but instinctive 
expression of this name. Our built-in concept of beauty is often connected to fertility and 
Shukra is the ruler of that. 


£0 MAA 7: 


om sarvavagunavarjitaya namah 


30. Destroying all defects. 


Avagunia is a defect or incompleteness in some quality. Venus is exalted at the end of 
Pisces, the last of the signs of the zodiac, indicating that his work is completed only when 
everything is completed. In the process of the 12 signs, we pass through all kinds of chal- 
lenges and lessons. Each sign has its agenda and only after passing through and exhausting 
our fascination to each one can we reach a state of completion or fulfilment. While the other 
planets become exalted when some area of life is perfected, Venus requires every area (Sarva) 


to be fully refined. 


Xo TAMU yTa AA: 


om samanadhikanirmuktaya namah 


31. Having neither an equal or anyone greater. 


Samana is the idea of equality and Adhika is about eminence or superiority. Nirmukta 
is complete liberation from these concepts. For example, we can imagine this in the case of a 
great artist whose work is beyond comparison. It also points at a state where there is no con- 
cept of greater or lesser. This only exists in those who know Brahman, the Great. That Being is 


infinitely greater than anything else so it puts everything in its proper (tiny) perspective. It then 


becomes almost comical how engaged we become in the little issues of our individual life. 


One’s deeply rooted survival instinct promotes selfish behaviour while Cosmic Con- 
sciousness, one’s true Self, is not the least concerned with such issues. This is the paradox 
of human life. Survival of the human species depends on a balance where each person takes 
care of their day-to-day needs while respecting the well-being of the whole. At this moment 
in time we are starting to see how we have slid dangerously far towards the ‘me-first’ part 
and this realization just might help us embrace the collective and planetary need. Seeing us 
struggling with little sign of success, the Divine is emanating a wave of wise teachers to help 
us elevate our consciousness and be better citizens. If one does not have a Guru or enlight- 
ened mentor, please look out for one. If one is willing, someone will surely come one’s way. It 
is often said, ‘When the student is ready, the teacher appears.’ What helps one become ready 
is adopting some practice like repeating a simple mantra, such as those in this book. More 


complicated mantras need guidance from a qualified teacher. 


0 WHATMAN AA: 
om sakalagamaparagaya namah 


32. The master of all scriptures and sciences (Sakala Agama). 


Paraga literally means to go beyond so this name also indicates a brilliance that 
exceeds what is currently known or created. Venus is the Guru of the ‘Daityas’. They are, by 
the Vedic definition, those who believe that they are the body alone. As such, Venus is the 
storehouse of all worldly knowledge such as medicine, architecture, and the other arts and 


sciences. 


xo IT AA: 


om bhrgave namah 


33. The sage Bhrigu. 


Shukra (Venus) is said to be the son of sage Bhrigu, one of the great seers of the Rig 
Veda, and thus he is called Bhargava. This name shows that he is also everything that his fa- 


ther is, not different from him. 


Bhrigu is one fit to support, thus it is both the archetypal father who supports the 
family and the archetypal mother who bears the children and their equivalents on every level 
of social structure. Wherever Venus is strong, life flourishes. That is why, when we look for 
life beyond our Earth, we look for water. Venus is considered a ‘water’ indicator. It is amazing 


that water is in fact so abundant everywhere we look in the cosmos. For life to arise, energy 


is also needed. While too much fire dries up water, a balance of it is required for life to evolve. 
Hence the dance between Venus and Mars astrologically. The universe is full of both water 
and energy sources but only in certain places is the right balance achieved. It is perhaps ironic 
that both planets Venus and Mars, in the recent epochs, have too much fire, including radia- 


tion, for life to survive on the surface. Venus has virtually no water. 


Xo MTU AA: 


om bhogakaraya namah 


34. Causing pleasure. 


The pleasure that comes from the eating of good food, conjugal relations, and other 
sensory experiences is Bhoga and Venus is the one whose agency brings these about. Thus, 
if Venus is not significantly afflicted by position or association at the time of birth or in transit, 
then his influence through his planetary cycle or Dasha and his influence by transit can be 
expected to cause such experiences. For example, when Venus, in transit, crosses over our 


Ascendant or Moon, there may be some passionate or loving experience. 


The ultimate Bhogi or indulger is Rahu who represents the demons, whose teacher is 
Venus. However, Rahu can be quite exploitative, while Venus is much more benign. The main 
issue with the influence of Venus is that it makes one want to enjoy and less inclined to labour. 
One can feel one’s ambition and focus on getting ahead is watered down and one may even 
drift into spending more and more time on seeking sensual joys. 


Xo MTA AUT AH: 


om bhumisurapalanatatparaya namah 


35. Eagerly engaged in protecting the rulers. 


Bhumisura are the ‘gods’ of the earth, which could mean the kings or great rulers and 
also the enlightened sages or even the deities that preside over rivers, mountains and so 
forth. Here we see that Venus is not just indulging the senses but protecting those who have 
to maintain the world in which we have sensory experiences as well as those who have risen 


above the senses but are still associated with a body, the truly wise ones. 


On the level of consciousness there is nothing to protect but the mortal aspect is 
guarded by Venus. This can be related to the nectar of life which sustains the body and is 
derived from the finest essence of the reproductive system. That essence keeps the immune 
system strong and thereby protects all the bodily functions which ensure the survival of the 


body. This is an inner meaning of this name. One implication is that severe diseases like 


auto-immune problems may benefit from the Ayurvedic approach of strengthening the Shukra 


Dhatu. For this, one should consult an experienced Ayurvedic physician. 


Another version of this name is Bhisura Palana Tatpara that has the same meaning. 


0 Falta AA: 


om manasvine namah 


36. The intelligent, creative and discriminating one (Manasvin). 


Literally, one who possesses a (good) mind and intellect. If a strong Venus influences 
factors like the fifth house in the Vedic chart that relate to intelligence and creativity, then the 


person may exhibit this kind of mental strength. 


30 AACS AA: 


om manadaya namah 


37. Giving pride (Mana). 


Those born fortunate are typically proud of their beauty, wealth and glory. Thus, a 
strong Venus in the chart can give much pride while an afflicted Venus can cause self-esteem 
problems. Venus makes us worry over our physical appearance. If we think we are not physi- 
cally attractive, then our pride is broken. The cure for this is not chocolate, for example, which 
just makes us feel better for a moment but to find something beyond the grip of Venus. Venus 
rotates on the axis of Pisces and Virgo. In Pisces we rest in the truth but may be careless 
about our diet leading us back towards Virgo where the sense of impurity or inadequacy leads 
to the search for purity and starts the track back towards Pisces. The state of rest is the state 
of satisfaction with ‘what is’, which is not to be found in any place on the zodiac. We have 
to find it at the core of our existence while doing whatever we have to do for maintaining our 


worldly existence. 


If one is very thin or fat and one longs to be different but cannot achieve that, then one 
is likely to have to take birth again for that experience. Thereby one learns that is also not 
ideal. Our genetics pressure us with the need to fulfill the genetic imperatives but these serve 
no essential purpose for the soul. The Soul simply is, it needs no companion since it exists the 
same in every being. It needs neither a special body nor any particular possessions because 
it already owns everything that is. Our essence is That, nothing more or less. Once That is re- 


alized then we are free. 


30 A-a14 AH: 


om manyaya namah 


38. The honoured one (Manya). One worthy of veneration, the highest respect. 


30 ATA AA: 


om mayatitaya namah 


39. One who is beyond illusion (Maya). 


If one is under the astrological rulership of Venus, one need not be lost in the web of 
the world. For the wise, to be blinded by the idea ‘I am the body’ is not natural, one can be 
a knower of reality. The body is just a projection of the Self. However, until that realization 
dawns spontaneously, we are seeking the intrinsic truth of this name. Meditating on this name 


may well help gradually over time. 


xo Terese AA: 


om mahayasgase namah 


40. Very famous (Yasha). 


One of great renown, great glory. The greatest fame is achieved by those who have 
realized their intrinsic nature unless they chose to hide themselves away. Even then, awaken- 


ing attracts the attention of the cosmic powers who then direct the life. 


30 SMeaTdala AA: 


om baliprasannaya namah 


41. One who is pleased (Prasanna) by gifts. 


Bali is usually a food offering made to the deity. People ruled by Shukra and all women 
(since Venus is the significator for the female gender) are, in most cases, very appreciative of 


sincere gifts. The name also gives us a clue to the proper worship of the Graha Shukra. 


30 3TqeTy AH: 


om abhayadaya namah 


42. One who gives freedom from fear. (Abhaya) 


The child feels fearless in the presence of the mother and people worship the Mother 
Goddess or Holy Mother to be free of fear. Even the gods turn to Her when they are afraid 
and she destroys the demonical power that threatens them. She has her right palm up facing 
forward indicating that her devotees need fear nothing. As the Highest Power, no other power 
can contravene Her Grace. It is written that the servants of Yama, the god of death, do not 
even record the actions of those who are worshipping the Goddess, even though it is their 
job. 


30 ated AA: 


om baline namah 


43. The powerful one (Balin). 


Venus is not weak but rather has great strength. It is noticeable that those holding great 
positions usually have very supportive spouses. That gives the strength to face the heavy 
load of responsibility. Desire, which Venus also signifies, is very powerful, few can resist it. 


30 UAHA AA: 
om satyaparakramaya namah 


44. One whose efforts (Parakrama) are grounded in truth (Satya) or whose power is truth and 
purity. 


Another name that appears at this point is om bala parakramaya namah. One whose 
efforts are endowed with power. This is how a strong Venus can give great success. Venus 
has directional strength in the fourth house. This position can give fame easily as long as the 
rest of the chart permits. 


This name also tells us that Venus’ power lies in speaking the truth and acting on that 
basis. If, out of desire for something, one indulges in some degree of falsehood, one will 
become weak. That is why they say, one lie leads to a 100 lies. One is quickly caught in the 
web of one’s own deceit and life is ruined. Lies come from desire, Venus, and fear, Rahu. 
Rahu is strong in Virgo where Venus is most weak. Virgo searches for truth. Whatever signs 
are strong in one’s chart, truth is the cure for fear. One who lives by truth has nothing to fear 
in this world or the next. 


Xo MSTIMARCAMN AA: 


om bhavapaSaparityagaya namah 


45. One who completely abandons the bondage of worldly existence. 


Pasa is a noose. Bhava means worldly existence, birth, and also thoughts and emo- 
tions. The influence of Venus can appear to trap us in the material existence but this name 
indicates that this is not natural, or it is a mantra for countering this tendency. Abandoning 
Rahu — unbridled desire, egotism, manipulation and paranoia — and striving for that which 
is eternally true, the knowledge of the Self, rescues us. We can use this name when our 


thoughts and feelings are spiralling out of control and we need to find our centre. 


Xo Sag-aManrany AA: 


om balibandhavimocakaya namah 


46. One who is free or frees us from the strong fetters of this world. 


This name is like the previous. Bali can stand for the religious offerings made for 
worldly gain and also the taxes and such commitments that perpetuate worldly and social 
life. Bandha are the bonds that grip us and, as such, also stand for all our relatives and close 
friends in this world. 


This name and the previous one give the clue that if we appear to be trapped in the 
material plane by the lower tendencies of Venus, we can worship this higher aspect of Venus 
to rise higher. We should consider our position carefully. Do we really want freedom or are 
we trying to escape discomfort? In the latter case, we simply want a different version of the 
worldly tendencies. These mantras do not destroy the world and all its connections; they help 


cultivate a state of freedom and peace within it. 


30 UAT AG: 


om dhanasayaya namah 


47. The seat of wealth. 


The root Dhan means to run or move and Dhana means the race but also the prize 
acquired, hence the usual translation as wealth, especially moveable wealth. From the very 
earliest times, humanity has pursued trading and it is from trading that the wealth of persons 


and nations has arisen. Trading means travelling from place to place, hence the aptness of 


the use of this root. 


The root Ash has the sense of enjoying or eating as well as obtaining. Ashaya is to rest, 
which naturally follows acquisition and/or consumption. Venus indicates the place of wealth 
and, if well-placed, wealth and abundance is natural. Where there is wealth there is ‘enjoying’ 
it, hence the high level of expenses it brings. This is only a problem if Venus is afflicted and 
expenditure exceeds the available resource. This is in contradistinction to Saturn who is often 


very sparing with expenses, whatever the level of wealth. 


30 GATCTATA AH: 


om dhanadhyaksaya namah 


48. Presiding over wealth (Dhana). 


That is, we can take the position of Venus at the time of birth as an important indicator 


of the financial fortunes of the person or company. This name is shared with Jupiter (75). 


0 Haya AA: 


om kambugrivaya namah 


49. Having a conch-like neck (Griva). 


The word Kambu can indicate a necklace of conch shells or, more normally, three lines 
on the neck indicative of good fortune. This is a compliment often given by poets to very 


beautiful auspicious people and appears in the praise of the Goddess. 


30 HANA AA: 


om kaladharaya namah 


50. Skilled in the arts (Ka/a). 


This is also a name of Lord Shiva because it can mean one who bears a digit of the 
Moon, the crescent Moon seen on the forehead of Lord Shiva indicating the enlightened 
condition where the wayward mind has been reduced to the least part (one sixteenth) that can 


sustain worldly experience without leading the senses astray. 


There are sixteen Kala or digits of the Moon, fifteen that are related to the lunar days 
between the New and Full Moons and the moment of the Full Moon. Kala can mean this 
moment, which represents the transcendental condition beyond the waxing and waning and 


hence also indicates the state of enlightenment. 


xo HOUTA AH: 


om karunyarasasampUrnaya namah 


51. Full (Sampurna) of the essence (Rasa) of the mood of compassion (Karunya). Overflowing 


with the most sublime compassion. 


This is the clear sign of the ripening of devotion in the heart. Without devotion, no 
progress can be made in spiritual practice. In the Yoga Sutras (1.28) it advises repetition of the 
Holy Syllable Om and contemplation on its meaning, ‘tajjapastadarthabhavanam - tat japah 
tat artha bhavanam’. This is best done in the heart. This Sdtra explains the inner mechanics of 
devotion and this mantra shows that Venus is the planet who gives the capacity for devotion. 
This is why Venus is exalted in Pisces, the feminine sign of Jupiter, which brings out its most 


spiritual qualities. 


30 HeMONYNTTTATT A: 
om kalyanagunavardhanaya namah 
52. Increasing (Vardhana) the auspicious qualities (Guna). 


Kalyana has many meanings: blessed, happy, lucky, fortunate, agreeable, lovely, pro- 
pitious, good and the like. Venus causes all these qualities to increase. However, if Venus is 
afflicted at the time of birth or transit, then these things become tenuous. This mantra can be 


a blessing. 


30 SATSANG AA: 


om svetambaraya namah 


53. Dressed in white clothes (Shveta Ambara). 


so trays AH: 


om Svetavapuse namah 


54. Having a white body or form (Shveta Vapus). 


Both these names (Venus 53 and 54) indicate a state of purity and calmness. The 
three gunas or presiding qualities in creation are Sattva, purity, Rajas, passion or activity, and 


Tamas, inertia. It is said that the divine beings are predominantly Sattvic, humans and ani- 


mals, Rajasic, and plants and minerals, Tamasic. 


Everything has a mix of the three and according to what we do and experience our mix 
can change. For example, we can tell our own mix from the foods we are attracted to. Fresh, 
nutritious food free from adulterations and full of life is Sattvic. Spicy, stimulating food is 
Rajasic while anything old and to any extent decayed or lifeless is Tamasic. If you make grape 
juice from freshly picked grapes, you will notice that the life energy in it is amazing but lasts 
no more than half an hour. | have seen in a medical journal that cooked food starts to acquire 
bacteria after cooking is stopped and after just half an hour in a hot climate it has enough to 


give a small child diarrhea. 


The Vedic literature says that according to the mix we have in our consciousness when 


one dies, so is the next level of life that one enters. 


so aqysTaarand 74: 


om caturbhujasamanvitaya namah 


55. Having four hands. 


Bhuja can indicate the hand and thus the name could suggest that the deity Venus 
is four-armed like many deities though the association with the human sage Shukra usually 
makes the statues and paintings two-armed. 


Samanvita is both ‘endowed with’ and ‘following in a regular order’. Chatur Bhuja could 
have many meanings. One is a four sided (Chatur Bhuja) symbol. This could also point to the 
four angles (kendras) of an astrological chart. These four houses, 1, 4, 7, and 10 are consid- 
ered the main markers of the worldly life of the person and his or her wealth. They represent 
health, property, spouse and status respectively. Venus is the natural significator of the house 
of marriage (7) but clearly is important for all the others. This could also indicate that our main 


desire focuses on self (1), mother and home (4), marriage (7) and work (10). 


It is also associated with enjoyment and this name could refer to the four aims of 
human life (or modes of life experience) Dharma, duty, Artha, wealth, Kama, sensory pleasure, 
and Moksha, liberation, or the four stages of human life, Brahmacharya, celibate student, 
Grhastha, householder, Vanaprastha, householder hermit, and Sannyasa, recluse. It could 
also indicate the four varnas or ‘castes’, which are four styles of living or experiencing, Brah- 
min, cultivating holiness and profound knowledge, Kshatriya, protecting the people, Vaishya, 
providing employment, trading and so forth, and Shudra, being employed. The word Saman- 
vita in this name indicates that Venus represents the orderly functioning of these fourfold 
modes of life and their progression or rotation in our awareness. Again, we see how Venus as 


the Guru of the worldly life maintains it by upholding its natural organization. 


30 JAAN AA: 


om aksamaladharaya namah 


56. Wearing (Dhara) a necklace of seeds (Aksa Mala) such as from the Rudraksha tree. 


Rudraksha Malas (string of beads) are famous in India and worn by the devotees of 
Lord Shiva. Those devoted to Lord Vishnu wear Malas made from the Tulsi or holy basil. In ei- 
ther case, it is a sign that the wearer is intent on divine devotion and practicing Japa in which 
the repetitions of the mantra are counted on the Mala or rosary. The practice of repeating the 
names of God while counting on a Mala crosses all religions and appears to be a root part of 


our natural religion before it is separated into different sects. 


The Aksha is also the eye or any organ of sense. Venus rules over sensory experience 
and vision in particular. The Akshamala can indicate the state where the consciousness is free 
of identification with the senses and has become a witness of the world. Then the senses are 


a mere garland to the soul. 


Xo faeay AH: 
om acintyaya namah 


57. Of peaceful mind. 


Achintya means free of thinking, completely calm, or it also means that he is beyond 
conception. The inconceivable greatness cannot be grasped by the ordinary mind. In either 


case, this points to a liberated state of the soul, a true sage. 


Xo SAULT A: 


om aksinagunabhasuraya namah 


58. Shining (@hasura) with indestructible perfection. 


Aksinaguna is the state of perfection of the soul pointed to by the previous names and 
here we see that once the individual merges with that, the mind, body and life that was asso- 


ciated with that individual now shines with the glory of the Supreme. 


30 FT AH: 


om naksatraganasancaraya namah 


59. Touring through (Saficara) the collection (Garia) of constellations (Naksatra). 


This makes us pay special attention to the Nakshatra Venus is in at birth as well as 


where it falls every day. 


30 FAC AA: 


om nayadaya namah 


60. Bestowing (Da) leadership (Naya). 


Venus gives political and managerial skill and status. Many leaders have Venus as their 
ruling planet or related to their status. This shows that the quality of leadership depends on 


the purity of Venus. 


30 ANAT AR: 


om nitimargadaya namah 


61. Setting one (Da) on the right course (Marga). 


Niti can mean good conduct and thence the art of propriety, policy and management. 
From the position of Venus in a person’s chart we can see what kind of leader they are, what 
kind of example they set. 


xo ANYCTa AH: 


om varsapradaya namah 


62. Showering (Prada) abundance. 


Varsa is the rainy season that bring good crops and hence food and wealth. It is also 
fertility, hence the state of Venus at birth can show if there will be any infertility problems. This 
applies to humans and everything else in nature. Varsa is the year, which really means the 
cycle of the seasons, so the people looked to Venus to see if they would eat and prosper dur- 


ing the coming 12 Moons. 


It is interesting that the Mayans and perhaps many other ancient cultures directed their 
main astronomical effort towards studying the movement of Venus. This may well have been 
their approach to correcting between the sidereal and tropical zodiacs. The position of the 
Sun was inevitably measured with respect to the seasons while the Moon and planets can be 


seen directly against the stars. Reconciling these measurements was the key to constructing 


a chart and therefore engaged the ancient scientists. 


Xo EMHIMA AH: 


om hrsikesaya namah 


63. The master of the senses. 


The Sanskrit root Hr means to take away evil or sin. Hrs means to be excited, even 
thrilled with rapture. Hrsi is joy, satisfaction and splendour. Hrsika is a sense organ and /sha 
is the master or lord. Combining these two gives Hrsikesha, the one who is the master of his 
sense organs, has control over the conjugal and other urges and is filled with joy. Venus is 
responsible for the conjugal urge and conjugal pleasure but it has its higher truth in this name. 


This could be a good mantra for those tormented by their hormones. 


Xo FetMAMHUs AA: 


om klesanaSakaraya namah 


64. The one who brings (Kara) an end to suffering. 


Klesha can mean pain and anguish as well as worldly preoccupation, Nasha means to 
destroy. It is a fitting commentary on the previous name. Gaining control over the senses by 
identification with their Lord, ends all suffering. 


30 Hat AA: 


om kavaye namah 


65. Highly intelligent. 


Kavi is also a sage and a poet. Since this name appears thrice for Venus, it suggests 
that several different meanings have to be given importance. Kavi comes from the root Kay, to 
describe, to praise, to compose or to picture. It emphasizes both the literary and visual artists 
who are more concerned with the feelings and the worldly experiences and the sage who 
sings the song Divine. It can also indicate a gifted leader as well as anyone of high intelligence 
and understanding. Venus signifies a minister in the planetary cabinet as well as the leading 


bureaucrats. 


Xo Faraaisyara Aa: 


om cintitarthapradaya namah 


66. Making thought fruitful. 


Chintita is thinking, reflection, consideration. Artha is purpose or aim. Prada gives. So 
the name literally means that Venus gives the result of what our mind dwells on. It is well 
said that whatever one dwells on is what one becomes. We can see the quality and power of 
anyone’s thought by studying the state of Venus in their chart. Especially Venus in Pisces, un- 


afflicted, indicates a very pure and noble mind. 


Xo Waa AA: 


om santamataye namah 


67. Peaceful. Of peaceful intentions. 


Mati is the mind and its thoughts, intentions and beliefs. Shanta is tranquil and gentle. 
The mind is quiet and thinking can even fall still if not required. A noble mind is a peaceful 
mind. If the mind is agitated, one should understand that some impurity is afflicting it and 


seek to remedy this. Regular repetition of mantras and prayers can help. 


so Fareed AH: 


om cittasamadhikrte namah 


68. Makes the mind even. 


This is a state of peace that transcends that referred to in the previous name. Samadhi 
is the balanced state of the intellect, a state of pure consciousness. Chitta is the mind, the 
intellect or the intention. This shows that Venus is capable of giving a completely pure mental 
state. Venus purifies the senses and thereby the mind. By refinement of experience the mind 
and intellect become purified and Samadhi arises. Mostly people think of Venus as causing 
the agitation of the mind due to desire. This shows the basic principle of Jyotisha. The Graha 
that gives purity of consciousness also measures the degree of that purity from great distress 


to deep calmness and bliss. 


Ro IMMomMyETs AA: 


om adhivyadhiharaya namah 


69. Destroying (Hara) anxiety, misery, pain and sickness. 


Adhi is mental anxiety. Vyadhi is physical sickness. The last three names have shown 


the development of a pure state of consciousness and now we are told that this will put an 


end to all these troubles. 


30 Yaa AH: 


om bharivikramaya namah 


70. Exceedingly (Bhari) heroic (Vikrama). 


One who has developed pure consciousness is the true hero who has transcended 
selfishness. Venus is often associated with artists and some people may be surprised by this 


name but great artists are often heroic in nature. 


The mantras often refer to qualities which they can help us develop and understand. 
They tell us about the nature of the Graha, typically describing its highest gift. Venus is the 
giver of the most purified state of human life. The requirement (or Adhikara in Sanskrit) to 
reach this is great valour or heroism. Anyone who can be stopped by fear will never reach this 
state, the final step requires one to accept what appears to be total annihilation. Before that, 
all kinds of ‘demons’ may appear, inner and outer, and one will face fear. Fear is the Divine’s 


way of protecting its highest gift. 


30 TUTTI AH: 
om punyadayakaya namah 


71. The giver (Dayaka) of merit (Punya). 


Merit is the fruit of unselfish deeds that lead to good luck in the future. If someone 
wins the lottery then we can infer that in a previous life the person did some noble, kind and 
charitable deeds. Someone who survives a disaster when all others die also has great Punya. 
Punya is worth more in this world than anything else. It is very fortunate if we are inclined 
to good and kind deeds. Every act of cruelty, however small, will be re-visited on us. Every 
pain we inflict on another creature or even on the earth itself, unless paid for at the time, will 
be paid for by bodily pain that we have to bear later. This is the basis of the ancient Vedic 
principle of voluntarily undergoing some inconvenience whenever one knows one has done 
something hurtful. For example, once a year, people would do a two week fast to cover for 
all the small creatures that one has unknowingly killed directly or indirectly. This fast involved 
gradually reducing one’s food intake for a week and then gradually increasing it. This is all ex- 
plained in the Manu Smriti, the oldest extant law book. 


Venus in a natal chart shows where Punya, and hence luck, is primarily found. 


30 TUTTO OTT T FA: 


om puranapurusaya namah 


72. The ancient (Purana) person (Purusa). 


That person is the One from which all this is made. This is a name of Lord Vishnu and 
clearly links Venus with Vishnu. Shukra is the son of Bhrigu and the family is traditionally as- 
sociated with Vishnu. This indicates that practices such as chanting the Vishnu Sahasranama 
(thousand names) can be helpful for afflictions to Venus just as they are for Mercury. Normally, 
we associate Venus with Lakshmi, especially when strong and unafflicted, and Lakshmi is the 


consort of Lord Vishnu so there is no need to make any difference between them. 


30 USAT AH: 


om pujyaya namah 


73. An honourable person (Pdjya). 


If one ever wondered why great artists have so many fans, this is just a reflection of 
this. Venus is the giver of charisma. With a touch of Rahu, it can be especially charismatic 
though a strong influence of Sattva is needed to stop delusion setting in. 


io TORE A: 


om puruhutadisannutaya namah 


74. Worshipped (Sannuta) by the gods, Indra and others (Puruhutadi). 


Even though the gods are the followers of Brhaspati (Jupiter) and Shukra is the Guru of 
their enemies, they worship him or that principle he represents. Venus signifies the Goddess, 
especially Lakshmi, the giver of wealth, victory and all good things. Venus also signifies the 
arts and love. The heavens of the gods are said to be filled with the most beautiful nymphs, 
expert in dancing and eroticism. These forms of the Goddess are naturally to be found where 
She is honoured and worshipped. The gods are certainly concerned with sustaining their 
power and glory and so they incessantly worship Her. Even those seeking only the highest 
truth and who have taken to the state of celibacy, come to honour and propitiate Her in the 


form of MahaLakshmi and are decorated with Her Grace. 


30 3TataTa AA: 


om ajeyaya namah 


75. Unconquered (Ajeya). Hence they say ‘Love conquers all.’ 


30 fats Aa: 


om vijitarataye namah 


76. Having his enemies subdued. 


The enemies (Ardat/) are completely subjugated (Vijita). This can be understood in many 
ways and on many levels. In the Vedic Astrology chart, a weak Venus may indicate that the 


person is troubled by enemies. 


Arati is also the number six and as such indicates the six internal enemies such as 
lust and pride. It especially indicates meanness and envy. It can be taken as the ‘demons’ 
who frustrate the happiness of man. Even though an afflicted Shukra can indicate lust, a pure 
Venus can help us overcome all the vices. Thus, in almost all cases, remedies for Venus can 


help life take positive new directions. 


xo Tafaemyunsaenad Aa: 
om vividhabharanojvalaya namah 


77. Shining (Ujvala) with various ornaments (Vividha Bharana). 


The ornaments are made of precious materials like gold and jewels. Venus indicates a 
person's inclination to adomment including scents and makeup. In Vedic times and in many 
eras both women and men wore jewellry but, as Venus indicates women, it has always been 


natural for them to adom themselves beautifully. 


30 PCUSG MATH AF: 
om kundapuspapratikasaya namah 
78. Shining like (Pratikasha) the Kunda flower (Puspa). 


The Kunda is Jasmine, an exceedingly fragrant and pretty flower, some well-known 
varieties of which open their blossoms at night, which is most apt. This also indicates that this 


flower can be used in the worship of Venus and the Goddess. 


30 Fecal AA: 


om mandahasaya namalh 


79. Laughing (Hasa) gently (Manda). 


This indicates both the joy and the gentleness of those with an unafflicted Venus. It 
suggests modesty and refinement. 


0 Tera AA: 


om mahamataye namah 


80. Possessed of greatness of mind (Vahamati). 


Another version of this name is om mahamanase namah with the same meaning. One 
cannot be great without a great mind except perhaps in the form of a large rock, for example, 
to which others with minds attribute greatness. The whole life is a projection of the mind. 


Xo APTA ASAT ATTA AF: 
om muktaphalasamanabhaya namah 


81. Resembling (Samanabha) pearls (Muktaphala). 


Pearls are precious and have a subtlety in their beauty. In the next name (Venus 82), 
the word Mukti is used. Mukti and Mukta are both related to liberation and freedom while 
Mukta or Muktaphala is the pearl. The proximity of these names (81 and 82) suggests that an 
allusion to one, liberation, is made by referring to the other. Phala is fruit and it can also be 
interpreted both ways. The state of freedom shines like the pearl and is rare and precious like 
it. Muktaphala can mean camphor, which is also white. It burns easily and Venus as well as its 
main sign of Libra have a great capacity to shine or flare up. 


30 HPHCTA AH: 


om muktidaya namah 


82. Giving (Da) liberation. 


Few realize that Venus is the giver of Mukti or spiritual liberation. However, the fact that 
Venus is the last planet to be exalted as one traverses the zodiac from Aries to Pisces gives 
a clue. Venus is the giver of Mukti because it represents refinement. All spiritual evolution in- 
volves refinement. The refinement of the mind leads to Self-realization. After that, the senses 
are refined though the purification of the heart and the refinement of feeling. This leads to the 


vision of God and ultimately complete liberation. 


The first Graha to be exalted is the Sun, which represents the Self. The Sun is exalted 
in Aries. This tells us that knowing the Self is simply the first step and very far away from a 
pure heart and true enlightenment. However, the vision of the Self is so great, so overwhelm- 
ing initially, that one can easily feel ‘this is it’, | am done. Here a Guru is needed to keep the 
aspirant on the track. Until the final line is crossed, egotism can claim the soul and a worse 
situation may arise than if no realization had taken place at all. The measure of greatness is 
the extent of humility. Not the humility of weakness but the humility of one who has seen the 


Great and utterly surrendered before it. 


Xo HPA ATTY AH: 


om munisannutaya namah 


83. Worshipped (Sannuta) by the wise (Muni). 


Xo WAT RTA eS AA: 
om ratnasimhasanarudhaya namah 


84. Stationed (Aruidha) on a jewel (Ratna) encrusted lion seat (Simhasana). 


The Goddess is often depicted seated on a lion and many kings were said to be seated 
on a lion throne, alluding to the power their position gives over life and death. This throne is 
said to be a jewel or bejewelled, suggestive of vast wealth. A strong Venus offers both wealth 
and power. This is particularly true of Venus in the sign of Leo, in Sanskrit Simha, the lion. This 
is the sign of royalty and even though Venus is not considered a friend of the Sun, the ruler of 
Leo, Venus in Leo can give the greatest royal pleasures. Indeed, the Nakshatra or constella- 


tion that falls in the middle of Leo is ruled by Venus. 


A king who overindulges in sensory pleasures may lose his throne and hence the 
tension between the Sun and Venus. There is a wonderful story about Adi Shankaracharya 
(Shankara), the great Guru who restored the Vedic wisdom in India after it had been largely 
taken over by various sects and philosophies as well as a tendency to see the Vedas as purely 
for worldly gain. He promoted the highest wisdom of enlightenment known as Vedanta, liter- 
ally the end of the Veda. He took to the life of a monk at an early age and travelled around the 
country debating with great scholars of different schools. In those days, if one lost a debate it 
was like losing a war. The losing scholars sometimes committed suicide, others became the 


victor’s followers. 


Eventually he came to the door of the greatest exponent of the Karma Kanda, the 


aspect of Vedic wisdom that is primarily concemed with worldly advancement including at- 
taining high regions of heaven after this life. It was said that even the parrots near this house 
were heard chanting the Vedas. Shankara entered the place and challenged the man. After 
several days, Shankara was victorious but his wife intervened and said, ‘as | am his half, you 
have not won until you have defeated me’. This lady, Uma Bharati, was thought to be an in- 


carnation of Saraswati, the Goddess of wisdom. 


The two debated for several more days until Uma Bharati started to ask him questions 
about intimate relations, aware of his inability to answer. Being a celibate he had no personal 
experience so he asked leave to do some research! This was agreed. Shankara went to a 
mountain with his disciples and asked them to protect his body. Having taken a vow of 
celibacy, he had to take up another body for this research. Leaving his body in a cave, his soul 
came across a king who had just died while out hunting. Reviving the king’s body he returned 
to the court where he instructed his ministers to handle the affairs of state and he retired to 
his harem. In the kingdom, the weather became very favourable and all kinds of luck came to 


the people. Weeks passed... 


The Guru had told his disciples he would return after a month. When he was very late 
returning, they began to worry and started to make enquiries. Hearing about the king who 
suddenly came back to life and the accompanying wave of good fortune in that place, they 
became sure they had located their master. Disguised as musicians they managed to gain 
entry to play before the king. Then they sang about a sage who took up the body of a king 
and immediately the Guru remembered himself and dropped the royal frame. Returning to the 
mountain, he found his body about to be burnt by some of his enemies who had found it un- 


protected. Reentering it, he jumped from the pyre! 


On returning to the debate, Uma Bharati gently chided him for going to so much 
trouble and conceded defeat. Her husband became one of Shankara's four most famous 


disciples. 


30 TYEUTY AY: 


om rathasthaya namah 


85. Established (Stha) on a chariot (Ratha). 


This is indicative of being a person of high standing. Venus rules over vehicles and 
comfort from vehicles as this name suggests. Venus vehicles are royal chariots rather than 
donkey carts, A Mercedes rather than a basic car. The soul rides in its chariot, the body, and 
is guided by the Divine Will. If we are doing this mantra, we can make it a prayer for that 


guidance. The Nakshatra in the middle of Taurus has as its symbol someone riding on a char- 


iot. Taurus is a sign of Venus and represents the storehouse of wealth. 


30 THAW AA: 


om rajataprabhaya namah 


86. Having a silvery lustre (Prabha). 


Venus is related to silver (Rajata) coloured metals. This mantra can help us shine. 


Xo QauneMragnra AH: 


om sUryapragdesasafcaraya namah 


87. Moving (Saficara) in the Eastern country (Pragdesha) of the Sun (Sarya). 


Each Graha is associated with one of the ancient kingdoms. Perhaps today this could 
indicate Japan, famous for its beautiful landscape, architecture, artisanship and artwork. The 
Japanese flag shows the rising Sun. In India, the Sun is worshipped in Odisha (Orissa), the 
Eastern most state before Bengal. The Bengal coast faces South, so Odisha is the first east- 
ern facing coast of India to receive the Sun’s rays and the great temple of Konark was built 
there in the form of a great chariot ridden by the Sun. Near there is Puri, one of the great cen- 
tres of devotional worship, which is an expression of exalted Venus. The most famous saint 
who spread devotion in Odisha was Chaitanya Mahaprabhu who lived about 500 years ago 
(1486-1534). One of his five leading ‘friends’ was Swami Achyutananda Dasa, who founded 
the school of Jyotisha which is now represented by the teachings of Pandit Sanjay Rath, my 
Jyotisha Guru. This tradition has a strong knowledge of the devotion to the Mother Goddess, 
naturally represented by Venus. 


ao SPEIER cK >A: 


om suraSatrusuhrde namah 


88. A friend and ally (Suhr) to the enemies of the gods (Sura Shatru). 


He is the joy of those who do not have access to the nectar of immortality because he 
brings them back to life again and again. 


It is one of the strange things about the greedy and malignantly minded people that 
they think that by killing someone, they can protect themselves from enemies and whistle- 
blowers. Some time is bought, for sure, but in the context of the endless expanse of time, that 
is a very limited gain. When you kill a person who opposes you they can take another birth 


much more suited to their revenge. Corrupt politicians, business leaders and Mafioso take 


note. 


There is an interesting related example of this in the great epic the Mahabharata. In 
this case, a woman who was much aggrieved with one of the greatest and nearly invincible 
warriors of the day transformed herself into a man through intense meditation. Only very rare 
individuals can achieve such a thing without passing through physical death. She became the 
charioteer of one of the great archers on the opposing side. At the height of the great battle, 
they confronted the hero who was unable to defend himself because he saw that one of his 
opponents was a woman by birth and thus not to be attacked. He fell mortally wounded but 


insisted as he lay there that the fatal arrow came not from her but from her companion Arjuna. 


It is very interesting to study charts of birth and rebirth. Occasionally one gets a case 
where one can be quite sure that the one who died returned as the other. | have personally 
come across several cases where a child has led her parents to a house that she has never 
seen in this life and has described the interior, the inhabitants, and more. The parents on 
speaking to the family of that house hear about the child or young person they lost and how 
the stories fit perfectly. In any individual's chart, one can also study the twelfth and sixtieth 
divisional charts (DwadashAmsha, D-12 and ShashtyAmsha, D-60). The D-12 is about the ge- 
netic inheritance and the D-60 is read as the past life chart and then we can see how the natal 
chart (Rashi, D-1) is projected from them. Often one sees how serious weaknesses that led to 
the previous difficulties and death, as can be seen in the D-12 and D-60, are translated into 
natal combinations that carry the same agenda but with more power to fulfil their purpose. 


Xo ad AH: 
om kavaye namah 
89. The sage (Kavi). 


This name is repeated either emphasising the meaning or indicating another interpre- 
tation (Venus 14 and 65). Kavi also means a wise or even enlightened person, a thinker or a 


sage. 


so TAHT TA: 
om tulavrsabharasisaya namah 
90. The lord (/sha) of the signs (Rashi) of Tula, Libra, and Vrshabha, Taurus. 


Tula means scales and Vrishabha a bull as in Western astrology. They are the second 


and seventh signs and so Venus is associated with the second and seventh houses in the 


Vedic chart. For example, the seventh house is the first marriage and the second is read as 
the second marriage. 


0 COs Aa: 


om durdharaya namah 


91. Irresistible (Ourdhara). 


This has the sense of one whose approach cannot be stopped, or something that is 
hard to bear. One could apply this to the will of the truly enlightened ones, the influence of the 
charismatic or the power of the cupid. 


Xo EAU AA: 


om dharmapalakaya namah 


92. The protector (Palaka) of the Dharma. 


Dharma is that which upholds life. It is the true way for any being to sustain his or 
herself, whatever that may be. This shows that Venus, unafflicted, will help us adhere to our 
true path. It also tells us that if Venus is afflicted, it is hard to keep to it. Venus is easily afflicted 
and that is why almost everyone needs to do remedies for Venus. One can start with these 
mantras. 


xo MTA AA: 
om bhagyadaya namah 
93. Giving (Da) luck or good fortune. 


Bhagya also means entitlement to a share, like an inheritance. Bhagya is associated 
with the ninth house, so Venus in the ninth can give tremendous blessings and luck. The God- 


dess of Fortune smiles on one. 
xo You AA: 
om bhavyacaritraya namah 


94. Possessed of auspicious (Bhavya) conduct (Charitra). 


Those who behave in a charming, noble and courteous way. 


Xo WauNantaHra AA: 


om bhavapasavimocakaya namah 


95. Completely freeing (Vimocaka) from the grip of worldly existence. 


This is similar to Venus 45 except that name is about the intention to be free while here 
it is the realization of it. Bhava means birth and hence the succession of births and rebirths 
but it can also be interpreted as mental states, thoughts and emotions. Obviously, there is 
nothing wrong with thoughts and feelings, they are an essential part of life, but the state of 
freedom is where one’s mental states arise without overshadowing the experience of one’s 


own Self so bondage (PaSa) is not present. 


Descartes famously wrote ‘Cogito ergo sum’, ‘I think, therefore | am’. This suggests he 
had not experienced a thought free state of the mind. If there are no thoughts, one still exists, 
in fact the sense of being expands so profoundly that we speak (later) of ‘knowing the Self’, 
as if the awareness of one’s own being is normally hidden by the thoughts. It need not be, but 
initially, before we habituate to the transcendental experience, it appears like that. Many peo- 
ple have had these experiences and when they arise, all of this is quite obvious, but without 
having experienced this, then what | am attempting to describe may seem incomprehensible. 


This name tells us that this blessed state can come about through the agency of 
Shukra or that a dominant Venus can incline us to these experiences or states, though neither 
word is really correct. Some human mental states arise from the urges of the lower Chakras. 
The base Chakra gives us our survival urge and so this is the last to be transcended. The 
second Chakra is about sexuality and gets a second level priority. The third is about power, 
wealth and fame. Almost everything we see in the world appears to rotate around these three. 


Life can seem an endless struggle as there is no peace in any of them. 


lf, by some great blessing, our attention shifts to the fourth Chakra, near the heart, then 
a profound peace and calmness arises that tends to quench the interest in the lower three 
Chakras and their issues. There is much beyond this but it is a step into freedom and an 
incalculable blessing. However, there has to be a firm conviction to stay there as sliding back 
remains a possibility. The second and third Chakras are constantly advertising their wares and 
it is tempting to think that one can indulge in them while retaining the grace of the heart. After 
all, the state seems so profound. However, as the attention gets increasingly caught up else- 


where, that state fades away. 


There is another version of this name with essentially the same meaning: om bhava- 


bandhavimocanaya namah. 


xo THScaaNTT AA: 


om gaudadesesvaraya namah 


96. The ruler (/shvara) of the Gauda country (Desha). 


This is associated with the central part of Bengal. It also suggests ‘sugar country’, 
since Venus naturally rules over places where sweet things are grown or abound even though 
Venus is said to rule over the sour taste. In Venus 87 above, we referred to Chaitanya 
Mahaprabhu who lived his last 24 years in Puri, Odisha. He was born and also lived in Gauda 
(ancient Bengal) and the lineages from him are called Gaudiya because of this. 


30 THT AH: 
om goptre namah 
97. The protector and preserver. 


Goptr is also a name of Jupiter. Jupiter and Venus are the two Gurus or guides and 
there is no protector greater than knowledge. 


so Tf AH: 

om gunine namah 

98. Possessed of good qualities (Gunin). 

Xo TMSTIOTY AA: 

om gunavibhusanaya namah 

99. Decorated (Vibhtisana) with all good qualities (Guna). The good qualities are visible to all. 
Xo SUBMAATTEAT AF: 

om jyesthanaksatrasambhutaya namah 


100. Born (Sambhuta) when the Moon was in Jyestha Nakshatra. 


Jyestha is a heroic Nakshatra ruled by Indra, the slayer of the great demon Vrtra and as 
such indicates overcoming great opposition by skill or cunning rather than brute force. Indra 
is the king of heaven and is therefore surrounded by opulence. According to the ancient Vedic 


texts, Jyestha has the power of abundance, which makes it the natural birth star of Venus. 
Venus also represents diplomacy and diplomats have to use great skill to overcome all kinds 


of difficult circumstances. 


If a person is born with the Moon at the beginning of Jyestha, then according to the 
Vimshottari Dasha system of Vedic Astrology, they would pass through 17 years of Mercury, 
which indicates childhood and being single, then seven years of Ketu, which indicates an 
intensive transformational phase with the potential for spiritual awakening, and then 20 years 
of Venus, which is best suited to householder life. There is a tradition in India that one marries 
at 24 or 25 after completing one’s education (17+7=24). Perhaps this tradition relates to this 
name. 


30 SABTY AA: 


om jyesthaya namah 


101. The eldest (Jyestha). 


The literal meaning of Jyestha is the eldest one and also the pre-eminent. The oldest 


child often became the king and so it indicates the leaders in every field. 


Jyestha, as just discussed, is the name of a Nakshatra with much depth and some 
ominous portent as it is where Indra, king of the gods and deity of this Nakshatra, fights 
the demons. The goddess Jyestha was born before her sister Shri Lakshmi, the goddess of 
wealth so she is said to indicate a lack of wealth. Of course, those who earn riches through 
their own energy, start without any. In the Yoginihrdaya Tantra, Jyestha indicates knowledge. 
The root of this name is ‘Jya’, to overpower. Those born with the Moon here also exhibit lead- 
ership ability and can rise much above their original status. They can be psychically powerful 
and may become leaders in the spiritual or material field. For the Moon to succeed, Venus has 


to be strong as it rules Taurus where the Moon is most powerful. 


so TETY AA: 


om sresthaya namah 


102. The best (Shrestha). 


In one place, Maharishi Parashara describes Venus as the best of the benefics. In 
another place, this glory is given to Jupiter. This name is given to both of them. How can two 
be the best? It depends on what kind of knowledge one seeks and thus how one judges what 
is best. It is a matter of context. Jupiter is more oriented to spiritual upliftment while Venus will 


support both the material and the spiritual depending on the intention of the soul. 


xo Mfrateqary AA: 


om sucismitaya namah 


103. One with an innocent smile. 


Shuchi also indicates holiness, purity and simplicity. Smita is a smile or gentle laugh. 
It also indicates expanded or blossomed. Schuchismita is one who is completely pure and 
blissful. This is the gift of unafflicted and fully exalted Venus. If one uses the appropriate 


mantras, Venus can start to act like that, whatever its condition in the birth chart. 


Another version of the name is om Sucisthitaya namah. Established in innocence and 
purity. There is nothing more adorable than this and this is what can be damaged by the afflic- 


tions to Venus and enhanced by the association of Jupiter. 


xo sTqSYCTY AH: 
om apavargapradaya namah 
104. The giver (Prada) of emancipation (Apavarga). 


This is also a name of the Sun. The Sun represents Self-realization which is a profound 
level of fulfilment but Venus represents the complete wholeness of life in absolute purity 
which is a far, far more fulfilled state. 


30 SATA AA: 
om anantaya namah 
105. Without end, immortal (Ananta). 


Desire may seem endless but it is the wholeness of life that is truly immortal. A lasting 


love is a sweet drop of this. 


30 FAAP ACTID AH: 
om samtanaphaladayakaya namah 
106. Giving (Dayaka) undecaying results (Samtana Phala). 


That which is accomplished by the selfish and the greedy is washed away soon. Such 
people inevitably engage in deception but, sooner or later, the truth will emerge. It cannot be 


hidden from Cosmic Intelligence for even a moment. That Intelligence decides our fate and 


it is entirely just. However, we can ask for forgiveness from whatever personification of the 
Divine we are most fond and even though we cannot assure escape from whatever we de- 
serve, good will come of it all. The Mother, especially, is most forgiving. 


The works of the pure minded are remembered and honoured with affection for a very 


long time. 


xo Pawar FH: 
om sarvaisvaryapradaya namah 
107. Giving (Prada) rulership over everything, universal lordship (Sarva Aishvarya). 


Venus can indicate high position like being chief executive of a major company. Devo- 
tion can lead to oneness with the Supreme Being: The highest state. 


30 TARTAN AT AH: 


om sarvagirvanaganasannutaya namah 


108. Worshipped (Sannuta) by the whole assembly of the divine beings (Sarva Girvana Gana). 


All natural law comes under the sway of and serves the pure of heart. 


Om tat sat 


OO ON OA fF WNYD = 


OwWwwWwwn wWwwowNnt nO nNdNnNNONONNONN =F sas Sst Ss sts Ss st oH oH su 
nr WMH H- O DO WAN DA FWD HTH DO DAN OA FWHM + OC 


THe Mantras oF SHUKRA IN TRANSLITERATION 


.om Sukraya namah 

. om Sucaye namah 

. om Subhagunaya namah 

. om Subhadaya namah 

. om Subhalaksanaya namah 

. om Sobhanaksaya namah or om Subhagrahaya namah 
.om Subhravahaya namah 

. om Suddhasphatikabhasvaraya namah 
.om dinartiharakaya namah 

. om daityagurave namah 

. om devabhivanditaya namah 

.om kavyasaktaya namah 

.om kamapalaya namah 

.om kavaye namah 

. om kalyanadayakaya namah 

. om bhadramurtaye namah 

. om bhadragunaya namah 

. om bhargavaya namah 

. om bhaktapalanaya namah 

. om bhogadaya namah 

. om bhuvanadhyaksaya namah 

. om bhuktimuktiphalapradaya namah 
. om carusilayanamah 

. om carurupaya namah 

. om carucandranibhananaya namah 
.om nidhaye namah 

. om nikhilasastrajhaya namah 

.om nitividyadhuramdharaya namah 

. om sarvalaksanasampannaya namah 
. om sarvavagunavarjitaya namah 

. om samanadhikanirmuktaya namah 

. om sakalagamaparagaya namah 

. om bhrgave namah 

. om bhogakaraya namalh 

. om bhimisurapalanatatparaya namah 


36. 
37. 
38. 
39. 
40. 
41. 
42. 
43. 
44. 
45. 
46. 
47. 
48. 
49. 
50. 
51. 
52. 
53. 
54. 
55. 
56. 
57. 
58. 
59. 
60. 
61. 
62. 
63. 
64. 
65. 
66. 
67. 
68. 
69. 
70. 
71. 
72. 
73. 


om manasvine namah 

om manadaya namah 

om manyaya namah 

om mayatitaya namah 

om mahayasase namah 

om baliprasannaya namah 

om abhayadaya namah 

om baline namah 

om satyaparakramaya namah 

om bhavapasaparityagaya namah 
om balibandhavimocakaya namah 
om dhanasayaya namah 

om dhanadhyaksaya namah 

om kambugrivaya namah 

om kaladharaya namah 

om karunyarasasampurnaya namah 
om kalyanagunavardhanaya namah 
om svetambaraya namah 

om Svetavapuse namah 

om caturbhujasamanvitaya namah 
om aksamaladharaya namah 

om acintyaya namah 

om aksinagunabhasuraya namah 
om naksatraganasaficaraya namah 
om nayadaya namah 

om nitimargadaya namah 

om varsapradaya namah 

om hrsikesaya namah 

om klesanaSakaraya namah 

om kavaye namah 

om cintitarthapradaya namah 

om santamataye namah 

om cittasamadhikrte namah 

om adhivyadhiharaya namah 

om bhirivikramaya namah 

om punyadayakaya namah 

om puranapurusaya namah 

om pijyaya namah 


74. om puruhttadisannutaya namah 
75. om ajeyaya namah 
76. om vijitarataye namah 
77. om vividhabharanojvalaya namah 
78. om kundapuspapratikasaya namah 
79. om mandahasaya namah 
80. om mahamataye namah or om mahamanase namah 
81. om muktaphalasamanabhaya namah 
82. om muktidaya namah 
83. om munisannutaya namah 
84. om ratnasimhasanarudhaya namah 
85. om rathasthaya namah 
86. om rajataprabhaya namah 
87. om suryapragdesasaficaraya namah 
88. om surasatrusuhrde namah 
89. om kavaye namah 
90. om tulavrsabharasisaya namah 
91. om durdharaya namah 
92. om dharmapalakaya namah 
93. om bhagyadaya namah 
94. om bhavyacaritraya namah 
95. om bhavapasavimocakaya namah or om bhavabandhavimocanaya namah 
96. om gaudadeSesvaraya namah 
97. om goptre namah 
98. om gunine namah 
99. om gunavibhusanaya namah 
100. om jyesthanaksatrasambhutaya namah 
101. om jyesthaya namah 
102. om Sresthaya namah 
103. om Sucismitaya namah 
104. om apavargapradaya namah 
105. om anantaya namah 
106. om samtanaphaladayakaya namah 
107. om sarvaiSvaryapradaya namah 
108. om sarvagirvanaganasannutaya namah 


SOURCES AND ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS 


While these lists are well Known to traditional astrologers in India, | only found two 
places where they had been printed. | am thus indebted to Dr Mrs Saraswathy and Prof. B. A. 
Eeswaran for publishing a Sanskrit text of the names of the Grahas in their book 
NavaGrahas, albeit without translation and source, and Prof. S.K. Ramachandra Rao for his 
outstanding compendium The NavaGraha Kosha, which includes another set. Prof. Rao 
informed me that his work was based on a medieval text. Regretfully Prof. Rao has passed 
away. These two sources have some differences. Where | felt that both versions of a name 
had merit, | included both under the same number. 


| am most grateful to Pandit UmaShankar Jois, priest of the Mukambika temple, Kollur, 
Karnataka, India, for his help in the early stages of this work. Regretfully, he has now passed 
away. Many other pundits gave me their learned opinion on particular names and | thank them 
all. My Jyotish Guru, Pandit Sanjay Rath, has been a great inspiration. 


Two great artists have kindly allowed me to showcase their beautiful work. Pieter 
Weltevrede, acclaimed Dutch master painter, did all the colour work. The drawings were 
done by the highly talented Jane Adams. Find out more about them in the Section ‘The 
Artists’. 


Many people helped me with editing and proofreading and | thank them all. Especially, 
| want to thank my wife Susie for her considerable assistance and all my family for their love 
and support. 


ABOUT THE AUTHOR 


Andrew Foss has a PhD in Computing Science from the University of Alberta and is 
also an Oxford University Physics graduate with publications in Nature and other leading sci- 
entific journals. He is the author of the book High-Dimensional Data Mining. He enjoys a deep 
love of music, art and poetry and has more than 30 years experience studying and teaching 
the Vedic wisdom around the world. He is the Founding President of the British Association of 
Vedic Astrology, Editor of the BAVA Journal Gochara and is a Certified Jaimini Scholar and 
Jyotish Pandit, the highest professional certifications in Vedic Astrology involving nine years 
of continuous study. He has developed the unique, easy and powerful software Shri Jyoti 
Star that has become the first choice amongst the leading Vedic Astrologers around the 
world. Andrew is married and lives with his family in Virginia, USA. 


SECRETS OF VIMSHOTTARI DASHA 


As a bonus | have decided to publish some unique secrets about Vedic Astrology in 
the printed version of this book, which will also have the mantras of all nine planets. Please 
visit YogaOfThePlanets.com for more information. 


For 33 years, |, like everyone else who studies Jyotisha, wondered about the origin of 
the lengths of the Vimshottari Dashas. | could never find a way into this mystery. Nowhere in 
the literature, ancient or modern, can even a satisfactory hint be found. Then, on July 7, 2015, 
| saw on the web at least a partial derivation of the sequence of lords. It relied on knowing the 
Dasha cycle lengths. At the end, the author appealed for someone to find a solution to the 
problem of deriving the length of the cycles. The thought came, ‘let’s give it a shot’. 


| pulled out a fresh sheet of paper and started writing down equations that might help. 
Bit by bit the key principles unfolded themselves. It did not take long to realize that | had an 
answer and it just required some polishing. In the process, some wonderful insights 
appeared as well as a profound advance in the understanding of the Tara Bala, which is most 
important for interpreting the Dasha. | have not found this written anywhere. Therefore, both 
these re-markable and interesting secrets were given to me and | am sharing them with you. 


Notes 


Yoga Philosophy of Patafijali. Trans. PN. Mukerji, Univ. Of Calcutta, 1977. 


Each Nakshatra or lunar mansion has a planetary ruler used in astrological calculations as well as a Vedic deity. 


The Atmakaraka is the soul planet. It is the Graha that has advanced furthest in its zodiacal sign. Rahu is 
naturally retrograde, so it is an exception being measured from the end of the sign. Ketu is not considered as it 
represents the freedom of the soul, not its embodiment. 


