THE YOGA OF THE PLANETS 


JUPITER, BRHASPATI 


ANoreEw Foss, PHD 


TABLE OF CONTENTS 


Dedication 

How this Book will Help You 

Find your Personal Mantras 

The Journey 

Notes on Pronounciation from the Transliteration 
Hymn in Honour of the Planets 

Jupiter, Brhaspati or Guru 

The Mantras of Brhaspati in Transliteration 
Secrets of Vimshottari Dasha 

Sources and Acknowledgements 

The Artists 


About the Author 


HOW THIS BOOK WILL HELP YOU 


This book has many uses. In itself, it is a meditation. There is no need to know 
anything about Vedic Astrology to enjoy and benefit. There are insights into astrology but the 
main focus is enlightening the consciousness and providing a rebalancing of the energies 
represented by the planets. This will happen automatically as one reads the mantras and their 


commentaries. 


There are 108 mantras for each planet used in Vedic Astrology. Each mantra is a 
descriptive name converted to a salutation and used for meditation or chanting. For example 
‘om Santaya namah’ means ‘salutations to the peaceful one’ and is based on the name santa 
(shaanta) which means peaceful. Reciting the mantra develops understanding for the quality 
embodied in the name and can help mental clarity and spiritual development. In the transla- 
tion, the first mantra of each planet is fully translated. After that, just the names are translated 


leaving ‘Salutations to’ understood. 


The Vedic planets are normally listed in the order of the days of the week. They are 
the Sun, the Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus and Saturn plus the two eclipse points. 
These are the Lunar nodes called Rahu (the North node) and Ketu (the South node). The Vedic 
‘planets’ are often referred to as ‘Grahas’, the Sanskrit word which means ‘graspers’, as they 
appear to guide and control our experiences. 


For the first time, these mantras are listed with translation and commentary. Even if you 
only read the commentaries, you will get some of the benefit. If the planet is weak or afflicted 


in your life, then this acts as a remedy. If it is already strong, this helps to enliven its full value. 


A common way of using these mantras is to recite the set of 108 for the planet one 
chooses’. For example, one could recite the mantras of the Sun on Sunday mornings. The 
next chapter, Find your Personal Mantras, will explain how to go beyond this and find out 


which of the mantras will especially enliven your personal chart. 


The mantras of the more malefic planets, such as Mars, Saturn, Rahu and Ketu, natu- 
rally contain some names, which describe the more challenging side of the Graha. These help 
us to understand certain behaviours and this can be remedial. For these names, it may be 
better to contemplate the deeper meanings rather than simply repeating them. For example, 
Rahu is said to be cruel. This association with cruelty arises out of fear. Fear is deeply seated 


in survival issues. 


Contemplating the mantra may help one get in touch with the source of the problem, 
so it can be alleviated. Loving an injured heart can be the basis of real change. This applies to 


our self or another. | do not recommend using the more challenging names as regular practice 


mantras and | certainly do not recommend you ask another person to do them even if they 
come up when you do the calculations described in the next chapter. On the other hand, | 
have found listening to the sets of 108 names has been beneficial for my clients. 


If chanting one or a set of mantras, | suggest you start with 
om gam ganapataye namah 
to invoke the pure state of mind and end with 
om Santih Santin Santih 
meaning ‘Om peace, peace, peace’. 


For convenience, | am publishing the mantras of the nine planets of Vedic Astrology in 
nine separate eBooks. Put together, the length was too great but | am combining them all in 
the printed version. To find the eBook for another planet, visit YogaOfThePlanets.com. There 
you can also find information on the audio of the recitation of the mantras. | have on occasion 
given these to clients to listen to when that planet was afflicted in their chart with very posi- 
tive results. 


FIND YOUR PERSONAL MANTRAS 


A great secret being released with this book is how to find the best mantras for you 
from the list of 108. This secret has been closely kept by a few Indian Astrologers and | am in- 
debted to my teacher, Pandit Sanjay Rath, for enlightening me about this. 


It is very simple. The reason why there are 108 mantras for the planets as well as such 
lists for the deities is because the zodiac is naturally divided into 108 segments. 108 is said 
to be the number of Shree, the Goddess of prosperity. Astrologically, it is our whole world. 
For example, the name of a new born child is often given based on the Moon’s place in these 
divisions. 


It is not only the Moon that is important. The Sun is very important and all the other 
planets of Vedic Astrology can be key. It all depends on our chart. Whatever the chart, doing 
the mantra for the position of a planet can be very beneficial. It will resonate with us and thus 
has extra energy. 


There are a number of approaches for finding a powerful mantra for you or for a client, 
student or friend. The first | describe requires no astrology and the others are connected to 
the actual positions of the planets. For those with an interest in Vedic Astrology, this can be- 
come quite detailed as we drill down on the relationship between different planets. Therefore, 
a chapter on advanced applications is to be found in the printed version of the book. Here we 
give the easy astrological applications. 


However you arrive at a mantra, please pay attention to the caveat mentioned in the 
previous section. 


Method One, the Random Number 


Picking a random number may sound an unlikely idea but it is something that many 
prognostic systems employ, including the Vedic Astrology method of answering questions. 
This technique often gives clear insights. If you are calm and quietly focused, then nature 
talks to you and one way of facilitating this is picking a number. There are really two situations, 
finding a number for oneself and finding one for another. For example, if you are a Yoga 
teacher whose student wants a mantra or someone sharing with a friend. 


Suppose you want a random number for yourself and do not want to imagine a number 
out of 108. You can get three single digit numbers by picking numbers you see. One way is to 
open a book and take the final digit of the page number and do this three times. For example, 
suppose you open a book at random three times and get pages 21, 143 and 79. Pick the final 
digits which would be 1, 3 and 9. Write down these digits to form a number 139 and adjust 


to the desired range by subtracting 108. In this example, 139 — 108 = 31. Of course, you can 
come up with many alternate ways of getting a number. 


My astrological software Shri Jyoti Stare gives a random number. In the Data Entry 
screen, click ‘Enter Number’. If you are asked about ‘Replacing the current chart...’ click Yes 
or No. In the next screen, make sure the Range is set to 108 and you will see a random num- 
ber is given to you. 


If there is another person involved, one can ask them for a number. This often works. 
What we want is a number between 1 and 108. If the person gives us a number larger than 
108, we can keep subtracting 108 until we get a number in the desired range. For example, if 
they say 250, then subtracting 108 twice (216) gives 34. However, we may feel that the person 
is interpreting our answer to mean a single digit number only or perhaps knows the system 
we are using too well and may be biased towards certain numbers. Then we can ask for three 
single digit numbers as in the method described just above but we can write them down in re- 
verse order. This is just a suggestion, in reality we can use any scheme that we like. 


A separate app for this book is planned, which will do both random number and astro- 
logical calculations (information will be posted on YogaOfThePlanets.com). 


Method Two, Using the Astrological Chart 


The following is how to find the number for your natal Moon (or any planet). First, find 
out the sidereal position from any software, for example Shri Jyoti Star. In the current version 
7, it will also give you the mantra number next to the planet glyphs in charts. The planned app 
for this book will also give the number (see YogaOfThePlanets.com) but it is easy to do it by 
hand if one has the planet position. Examples are given below. 


In the table following, look up the planet position and find the number. Note, the table 
is at the end of this section and it is quite narrow to facilitate reading on narrow screens. If you 
still cannot see the whole width of the table, rotate your device to Landscape or pinch in until 
you can see the whole table. 


For example, suppose the planet is at Virgo 5 degrees. 5° is between 3°20’ and 6°40' 
so look in the second column of numbers under 6°40’ in the row for Virgo. You will find the 
number 47. Then look in the book for the mantra numbered 47. In the main text, the number 
is given at the start of the commentary, after the mantra. In the lists at the end, the mantra fol- 
lows the number. For the Moon, the mantra for 47 is ‘om muktidaya namah’. 


This is the simplest application of the rule where the number is counted from the start 
of the zodiac. This can be called ‘God’s view’ as the beginning of the zodiac is the beginning 
of the chart from the point of view of the Creator. Thus, it is very powerful. However, there 
are other views. There is the count from the Moon, which gives the social or personal view. 


There is the count from the Sun, which is like the view from our soul. Another important 
count is from the Ascendant, which relates to the body and health. Reciting the mantra we 
get from this count may help our health but if we feel sick we should always consult a medi- 
cal professional. 


We can make a count from any of the planets as the starting point. In Jyotisna (Vedic 
Astrology) there are systems of planetary cycles (periods), especially the famous Vimshottari 
Dasha system. All Vedic Astrology software like Shri Jyoti Star give these cycles too. Even 
some Western Astrology software or online software give them. For example, you might be 
running a Venus Moon cycle and subcycle. That means you are in the major cycle of Venus 
and the minor cycle of the Moon (called a Bhukti). In this example, one can count from Venus 
to the Moon and use the mantra from the Moon list. 


For example, let us find the mantra for the Moon from the perspective of the Sun. Let 
us suppose the Sun is at 8°10’ Leo and the Moon is at 4°30’ Sagittarius. First find the number 
for the Sun from the table as we did above, which is 39, and then the number for the Moon 
from the table which is 74, as 4°30’ is greater than 3°20’ and less than 6°40’. Now subtract 39 
from 74 and add 1, which gives you 36. Then find mantra 36 in the mantra list for the Moon. 
We add 1 because if both planets have the same number, the answer has to be 1, there is no 
mantra for zero. If the subtraction gives a negative value, just add 108 to the result. 


Now you know how to find key mantras for your chart in general and for your Dasha cy- 
cles. | recommend you start with ‘God’s view’ as this can be considered the most important. 


(The table is on the next page) 


Degrees up to 


Sign 3° 6° 40% “1380 “46? <20% 93% BE --30° 
20’ 40’ 20’ = 40’ 20’ = 40’ 

Aries 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 

Taurus 10. ~=«11 12 13 14 15 16 #17 ~ 18 

Gemini 19 20 21 22 23 24 2 26 27 


Cancer 28 29 30 ~~ 31 32 33 34 35 36 


Leo 37 38 39 40 = 41 42 43 44 45 
Virgo 46 47 48 49 50 51 52 5354 
Libra 55 56 «57 58 59 #60 61 62 63 


Scorpio 64 65 66 67 68 69 70 71 72 
Sagittarius 73 74 15 7 77 78 79 ~=©680-~—St—s«éO83211 
Capricorn 82 83 84 85 86 87 88 89 90 
Aquarius 91 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 
Pisces 100 101 102 103 104 105 106 107 108 


THe AsTROLOGICAL Houses 


In various places in this book you will find reference to houses or places from some 
important personal marker such as the Ascendant or the Moon. The simplest and traditional 
way of understanding this is in terms of the 12 signs of the zodiac, Aries, Taurus, etc. If 
the Moon is in Taurus, then Taurus is the first house or place from the Moon. Gemini is the 
second. Aries is the twelfth, etc. One only has to count round by signs. The Ascendant is in 


the sign rising on the Eastern horizon at the time of birth. 


THE JOURNEY 


On March 3rd 1995, | entered the sacred and tranquil valley surrounding the small 
village of Kollur. | had fostered a desire to visit here for eight years since a friend told me about 
it. | did not know why | felt this connection but when | was finally able to travel to India | set 
my heart on reaching that place. It seemed very special and | must have feared going straight 
there in case my energy was unprepared. | chose to go first to Tamil Nadu on the opposite 


coast and to the great temple of Rameshvaram. 


Rameshvaram is on the spit of land opposite Sri Lanka. This is the place Shri Rama 
worshipped Lord Shiva before launching his campaign to recover his wife Sita from the 
demon king. To cross the ocean, his army of monkeys and bears built a bridge or causeway 
across the ocean. This was many thousands of years ago but, amazingly, the remains of a 
causeway to Sri Lanka are still visible in satellite photos. According to temple records, Shit 
Rama’s bridge was passable being completely above the sea until destroyed by a cyclone in 
1480 AD. 


From Rameshvaram, | visited the great temple of Minakshi and thence to the very tip of 
India, Kanyakumari. This place has remarkable temples especially that of the Virgin Goddess. 
| rose and went at 3:30 am and was almost alone in witnessing the bathing of the Goddess in 
milk. It was the Full Moon day. A little later | did homage to the shrine for the Navagraha and 
received a distinct blessing. Prior to that | had done some study of Jyotisha but had received 
no authority from any Guru or other source to study and practice. This was a most unex- 


pected Grace. 


From Kanyakumari, | travelled up the Kerala coast visiting Ashrams and temples until 
| came to Kollur. It was a great moment, though for no obvious reason at all. Kollur is home 
to the famous temple of Devi Mookambika, the Goddess of the mouth. It is said she grants 
blessings related to the voice and the arts. Most evenings, artists from all over India come to 


perform before her. They sing, dance and play instruments. 


At the time | knew nothing about this temple. | did not know that astrologers from all 
over South India come here to pray and do penance for Vak Siddhi, the power that whatever 
one says proves true. After all, people expect an astrologer to have this power. While, in rare 
cases, it is possible that a person is born with this, generally it only arises after long and sin- 
cere spiritual practice. This is why Vedic Astrology, Jyotisha, is primarily a spiritual discipline 


and one should seek a guru or gurus to guide one’s spiritual and intellectual development. 


The essence of success in an earthly endeavour is the Grace of the Goddess and for 


each aspirant there is some form that appeals to him or her and which can grant success. 


There are rules for finding this form but ultimately it is very personal. | should make it clear that 
talk of gods and goddesses does not conflict with the monotheistic view because the Vedic 
view is that the One takes whatever form we desire or can be approached as purely formless 
if that is our path. 


The worship of the Goddess in India is, at its peak, related to the Shri Vidya and the 
Shri Chakra. The great sage and teacher Adi Shankaracharya installed a Shri Chakra under 
the deity in the Mookambika temple. After some time in Kollur, | came to know that he also 
installed a Shri Chakra at the top of the highest mountain nearby where the root shrine of 
the Goddess is to be found. Part of the pilgrimage is to walk to the top of this mountain. It 
is about 12 miles or one can take the bus part of the way and walk the last 3-4 hours. | had 
many extraordinary experiences on this mountain as well as in the temple, which | will write 
about elsewhere. 


While | was staying at the temple, somehow | conceived of this book. It seemed to me 
that the sets of 108 names of the Grahas (planets) were important and used by astrologers 
but | could find no trace of a translation or commentary. So | started making notes. When | 
could not understand a word, | discussed it with my friend UmaShankar Jois who is one of the 
distinguished priests at the temple. He studied Jyotisha with a great Guru though he passed 
away before my friend’s studies were complete. UmaShankar is a great expert in the remedial 
measures and he felt | had some knowledge on the analysis of charts so we spent a lot of time 
discussing Jyotisha together. 


I stayed at Kollur for more than 40 days, as is the custom, and then went for Shivaratri 
in Varanasi. This is the greatest festival for Lord Shiva and Varanasi is considered the city of 
Shiva, and is one of the most profound places to celebrate it. As | was about to leave Kollur, 
| went to the temple to take Her leave to go. The priests put me at the front during the Arti 
(ritual waving of lights before the shrine), which is the peak of the evening worship. Then | got 
on the bus to go to Bangalore where | could catch a train for the North. 


As it happened, the conductor of this bus was part of a ring of thieves who stole the 
luggage of innocents like me. | arrived in Bangalore without anything, all my notes were gone. 
Still | managed to continue my journey and reached Varanasi, the great city of Shiva, at 4 am 
on Shivaratri. | washed and went straight to the temple having no luggage to concern me. 
Standing in the queue | noticed that | was the only male wearing traditional clothing. There 
was a guard on the door and they often turn ‘tourists’ away. He looked me over for a while 
and then enthusiastically said ‘om namah Ssivaya’ and waived me in. 


The next year, | returned to Kollur with another notebook. | started by writing down all 
that | remembered and naturally found that my understanding had improved over the year and 
quickly was ahead of my previous work. When | left Kollur after another 40+ days | had just 


a few names which | could not decipher. | visited Prof. Ramachandra Rao in Bangalore who 
was one of the two people that | found who had published the lists of the names. We had an 
interesting discussion. He was a very great scholar. Unfortunately, he has now passed away. 
Travelling through India | met many good scholars who kindly gave me their opinions so the 
meanings became clear. Since then, from time to time | wrote my small commentary. It re- 


flects many stages in my own spiritual life. | hope you enjoy it. 


In 2007, | visited a small house a few miles north of the great Konark temple. This 
temple, though now partially ruined, was perhaps India’s greatest temple to the Sun god. It 
is built like a giant chariot. Some of the carvings are now in the British Museum including 
the large carvings of the nine Grahas (planets). The Konark temple stands near the beach in 
the North Eastern part of India’s V shape so is one of the first places to see the rays of the 
rising Sun. Konark is some 20 miles north of Puri where the great Jagannatha temple of Lord 
Krishna is to be found administered by the Shankaracharya of the East. He is charged with 


maintaining the Rig Veda, accepted as humanity’s oldest recorded wisdom text. 


About 500 years ago, the great spiritual teacher Chaitanya Mahaprabhu resided here 
and the lineages derived from him are still very widespread today, such as ISKCON. He had 
five ‘sakhas’ or friends, as they were called, one of which was Swami Achyutananda. The 
Swami was initiated by the great teacher at an early age and went on to become the King’s 
astrologer, a noted author of over 200 books and an enlightened sage. He also founded 13 
schools in the region. These taught various sciences and several were dedicated to Jyotisha. 
When he was leaving his body, he promised to remain in a ‘shunya’ form. Shunya means the 
void and it is a term he explained in great depth in one of his books. It does not refer to mere 


nothingness but to a profound state of Being. 


He kept his promise and even today you can go and consult him. That is where | was 
going. There is a small shrine and next to it are the quarters of a pandit who keeps and 
interprets a set of copper plates (tamra poti). These plates only contain some drawings like 
the shape of a lotus, but when you enter there with a question in your mind, the answer 
appears written in ancient Odia (the local language 500 years ago) and the pandit reads them 
for you. If you look, you can actually see the writing appear. | went there with several friends, 
all of whom were students of Pandit Sanjay Rath who is the last remaining person carrying 
the knowledge of the Jyotisha schools founded by the Swami. In effect, we had joined his 
lineage. The answers we got were remarkably pertinent and insightful. We were all given 
mantras. | later talked to a colleague who has taken over 40 people there and he said no one 


had ever been given a mantra. 


The Swami told me to finish my book. | noticed that when | did the mantra, | would 


work more on this text. | hope he forgives me for the long time spent in fulfilling his instruction 


but perhaps | or the time was not ripe before now. This year (2015) marks the 20th year since 
| started and only this year did | make the important discovery about the Vimshottari Dasha 
which is published in this book. In the derivation of the Vimshottari Dasha cycles or periods, 


the great significance of 20 years is revealed. 


The name of the Sun temple is from Kona + Arka. Arka is a name of the Sun and 
Kona means trine. In Jyotisha, this indicates the Dharma Trikona, the sustainer of life, which | 
have written about in many places in this book and is so important in the interpretation of the 


Vimshottari Dasha. 


NOTES ON PRONOUNCIATION FROM THE TRANSLITERATION 


In the transliteration, there are marks called diacriticals that aid correct pronunciation. 


In Sanskrit there are long and short syllables. The long ones are to be sounded for 
twice as long as the short ones, even longer is OK. Vowels with a line over them like ‘a’ and 
double vowels like ‘ai’ are all long. ‘h’ (h with a dot under it) is pronounced like ‘ah’, that is 
with aspiration. It is often pronounced as ‘ahah’ but this is not recommended for mantras as 
it effectively adds another syllable and the syllable count of a mantra is important. ‘s’ with an 


acute accent is like ‘sh’. For example, ‘Sukrah’ is pronounced ‘shukrah’. 


Consonants or sibilants with a dot under them like t or s are retroflex. For example, t is 
pronounced as the ‘t’ in Tom. You curl your tongue back and strike your palate. ‘t’ on the other 
hand is a dental sound. ‘th’ is ‘t’ with some aspiration as are all the other syllables that have 


an ‘h’ like ‘bh’, ‘dh’ and ‘gh’. You just blow a little when saying the consonant. 


The ‘r’ such as in ‘brhat’ is a vowel in Sanskrit pronounced like the ‘ry’ in jewelry. ‘c’ is 
pronounced as ‘ch’, as in ‘change’. In the commentary, | usually use ‘ch’. If ‘ch’ appears in the 
transliteration, then it is like ‘chh’, which is ‘ch’ with some extra aspiration. 


Please visit a Sanskrit learning web site or teacher for more detailed advice. One good 
site is learnsanskrit.org. 


The Devanagari (Sanskrit) support on a PC is excellent but may not be so perfect on 
mobile devices. Older Kindle devices and other eReaders may not show it at all. One can al- 


ways check against the transliteration, which should be correct. 


Please note that the first time part of a mantra is mentioned in the following text, it is 
italicized. Sanskrit terms in the commentaries are often transliterated but not always accord- 
ing to the more rigorous scheme. Sometimes the more usual form is followed using the stan- 
dard English alphabet. 


HYMN IN HONOUR OF THE PLANETS 


so Th TUNA Aa: 


om gar ganapataye namah 


Sa HURRAH AM: IM YTHE Sera 
TEM Yr: Walghda: Fs Wer: WA HU Fadil 


brahma muraristripurantakarl bhanuh Sast 
bhiUmisuto budhasca | 
gurusca Sukrah Sanirahuketavah sarve grahah 


Santi kara bhavantu || 


Brahma (the Creator), Murari (Vishnu, the Sustainer), Tripurantakarin (Siva, the slayer of the 
demon Tripurasura), Bhanu (the Sun), Shashin (the Moon), Bhimisuta (Mars, the son of the 
Earth), Budha (Mercury), Guru (Jupiter), Shukra (Venus), Shani (Saturn), Rahu and Ketu, may 


all these Grahas be peaceful. 


JupiTeR, BRHASPATI OR GURU 


So Tal 4A: 


om gurave namah 


1. Salutations to Guru — the remover of darkness. 


Gu is darkness and Ru is removing it. The one who shows us what is real and to whom 
we surrender by accepting what we see is the Guru. He is our own Self. That is why it is said 
that Lord Shiva is the Guru. Shiva is the field of Pure Being, our own undivided conscious- 
ness. We touch that through our own knowing. That is why knowing has no doubt. When we 
think or feel something, we can convince ourselves that it is true but some level of doubt al- 


ways remains. When we know something, there is no doubt. 


Arthur Eddington, the great physicist, undertook a trip to Principe, an island off West 
Africa, to verify Einstein’s theory of General Relativity by photographing the stars during a 
total eclipse. Einstein had predicted that their light would bend around the Sun effectively 
displacing them from where they normally appear. The effect was observed. When a journalist 
asked Einstein what he would say if Eddington failed to observe the effect, he replied, “I 
would feel sorry for the Good Lord, the theory is correct.” 


That is how we know something. There is no doubt and there is sweetness in it. This is 
the nature of Shiva consciousness. It is described as Sat, Chit, Ananda. Sat is uncomplicated, 
pure, and thus free of doubt; Chit is intelligence, which gives it the capacity to know; Ananda 
is bliss, it is nectar. 


So TOMA TA AH: 


om gunakaraya namah 


2. The author or origin (Akara) of all good qualities (Guna). Abounding in them. 


In a Vedic birth chart, Jupiter brings good qualities wherever it goes. If Jupiter is rising 
at the time of birth, the person is trusted by others and approached for advice. If Jupiter is 
strong in a chart, people tend to trust the person wherever it is placed. However, if it is not 
associated with the Ascendant, which represents the person, or second house of speech, the 
person can even be a con artist if other factors support this. | have met several but they keep 
on getting away with it because of the illusion of trustworthiness. If Jupiter is placed in the 
third house with a sign of Venus rising, then especial care is needed to honour and respect 


truth and the wise teachers. 


Xo THT AU: 


om goptre namah 


3. Goptr is the guardian, one who protects and preserves. 


Goptr also conveys a sense of hiding and concealing, which reveals an interesting 
aspect of the Jupiter energy. Jupiter relates to the establishment as well as to teachers, both 
of which exhibit a certain secrecy. Information is only given to those who need it or who are 
on the level to receive it. For instance, in the US goverment the database security system 
prevents the passage of information to anyone lower on the rungs. It’s the same thing with 
the Guru, who has all the knowledge, but she or he only gives it when the student is ready or 


considered fit. 


We see this in the Brihat Parasara Hora Shastra, the greatest text of Jyotisha, and 
other texts where the Guru is teaching the disciple. In these, many verses start with “O 
Brahmin!” This is a way of saying: “You're fit to receive this knowledge, because you are quiet, 
gentle and not overcome with greed.” 


A Brahmin or Brahmana means literally one who is a knower of Brahman. Adi 
Shankaracharya was one of the greatest Brahmins in history, but even he was tested. One 
day he was walking down the street in Varanasi (Benares), when a frightful looking person 
appeared in front of him with four dogs. He was a Chandala, a downtrodden caste, said to 
eat dogs. Shankaracharya commanded the man: “Out of my way.” The Chandala asked him 
what he was ordering to get out of his way. “Are you referring to the body,” he said, “which 
is anyway of itself inanimate and therefore cannot be inferior to yours, or are you referring to 
the soul, which being beyond caste cannot be lower than yours either.” Shankaracharya was 
shocked and saluted the man for his profound knowledge. Then the Chandala turned into the 


form of Lord Shiva with the four Vedas. 


This is the principle of Jupiter. What it gives is for the greater good. This is important in 
Jyotisha, which is not to say that the practice should not sustain the practitioner. Rather the 
point is that the practice will always sustain the practitioner if one’s attitude is one of service. 
If we think we need to get something, or deserve to get something, then we are not yet ready 
for this knowledge. Equally those who take from a Jyotishi (Vedic Astrologer) without giving 


something of value in return, will get no real benefit from the advice. 


Those trained in the Kerala style of astrology will look at the gift given to see the 
answer to the question. That is why it is said that one should never approach an astrologer 


empty handed. If you see an astrologer in person, think of what you can take to him apart 


from the money to be given. The best is something that will create a delighted mood even if 
it is something simple. Good people are delighted by the genuineness of the offering, not the 


cost. This activates the great benefic Jupiter. 


Xo TATA AA: 


om gocaraya namah 


4. Whose transit is of great import. 


Gochara means the transits of the planets and the results thereof. The prefix ‘Go’ 
indicates something auspicious as well as indicating cows and planets. The word Gochara 
literally means ‘cows moving.’ The planets are actually like cows, because they are giving 
their results all the time. A cow only gives and all that she gives is of value. This is why cows 
are considered sacred. Her milk is nutritious and the urine is medicinal. The dung can be used 
for manure, for making an antiseptic floor or cooking the food. The dung is also used to make 
the ashes for the forehead, and most incense is manufactured from cow dung. For this, they 


say you should catch it before it hits the ground. 


Panchagavya are the five blessings from the cow. The milk becomes curds and ghee, 
and the other two are the urine and the dung. In Ayurveda, the texts sometimes advise (where 
directed by a doctor) taking a concoction of the Panchagavya. That is milk, curds, ghee and 
some of the urine and dung. This may remind us of our response to the planets — we like the 
milk but we do not want the dung! However, everything has its purpose. 


We could also interpret this name as Jupiter being like a cow moving. It’s the mother 
cow moving around, and wherever it goes, it is giving. Jupiter is exalted in Cancer, the sign 


of the mother. 


Cows are born only to give. Certainly Jupiter is like this. That is why he is considered 
by some to reduce the strength of the place where he sits. Even though he is a great benefic, 
he tends to generously distribute whatever he has without much regard for the availability. 
The places in a birth chart where his glance or aspect falls are the prime beneficiaries. That is 
why it appears that the aspect is more fortunate than the placement. Wherever his glance falls 
we are saved from disaster. Even if that area is fatally weak, we do not die. That is also why it 


was said above that he is the guardian. 


Although all planets move in transit around the zodiac, this name appears only among 
the names of Jupiter, Saturn and Rahu, suggesting one should pay particular attention to 
these Grahas in transit over the natal houses. Moreover, this name is listed as one of the first 
of the 108 names of Jupiter, indicating that Jupiter's movement across the zodiac exerts an 


especially powerful influence. 


Some significant calendric parameters come from the movement of Jupiter. The length 
of our year is the length of time Jupiter spends in one sign (approximately). There’s an im- 
portant cycle of 60 years, which is based on the movement of Jupiter. The 60-year cycle is 
five Jupiter rotations of twelve years each, and it’s also two Saturn rotations, which each take 


about thirty years. 


In India, the famous Kumbha Mela festival is held when Jupiter moves into Aquarius, or 
Kumbha Rashi and the other three fixed signs, Taurus, Leo and Scorpio. The Scorpio transit 
is given less importance and is the occasion of an Ardha or half Kumbha Mela at Prayag 
where the Yamuna and Ganges rivers meet. It is held in four different centres in the course of 
a twelve year cycle. The exact calendar of the Mela is decided by the ascetics based on the 
transits of the planets. This emphasizes the angular positions of Jupiter from Aquarius, which 


are the four fixed signs. When Jupiter is in a fixed sign, its effects are very stable. 


The connection of Jupiter and Saturn to this cycle is not arbitrary, but rather reflects 
the fact that astronomically Jupiter and Saturn behave like a single system. Each planet 
moves around the Sun at a certain angle to the ecliptic plane, the path of the Sun as seen 
from the Earth. This angle for each of Jupiter and Saturn beats, i.e. separates and joins, in a 
regular way, with a beat or oscillation frequency of 54,000 years. The two points of closest 
approach to the Sun (the Perihelion) also cross every 54,000 years. This number, therefore, is 
the key vibration frequency in the solar system. In fact, after scanning over 4 million years, this 
is the only important long-term frequency that has been found. 


This number 54,000 is very intriguing as eight times that number equals 432,000, 
which is the number of years in Kali Yuga, the Vedic dark age which we are said to be in now. 
Eight is an important Vedic number. This gives us the clue that Kali Yuga should be divided 
into eight sub-periods, perhaps ruled by the seven planets and Rahu. Ketu can be omitted as 


it indicates liberation and these cycles describe materialism. 


xo THOTT AA: 


om gopatipriyaya namah 


5. Beloved (Priya) of Lord Krishna (Gopati). Devoted to Him. 


Who is most dear and devoted to Lord Krishna? Lord Shiva. So Jupiter represents him. 


Lord Shiva is the original and supreme Guru. 


This could also mean a friend of the Sun’s because he could be said to be the leader 
(Pati) amongst the ‘cows’ or planets (Go). Jupiter as the minister or Guru of the king, as 


represented by the Sun, is the closest and most trusted one. The Sun and the Moon (as the 


queen) feel especially strong when associated with Jupiter. Without that there is the feeling of 
being without a trusted guide and so there can be fear. That is why, when the Sun and/or the 
Moon of one person is aspected or seen by the Jupiter of another, then there is a great sense 
of support. This is very helpful in relationship. If it operates in one direction, only one partner 
feels like that. If it goes both ways then the relationship tends to be stable over a long time 


even if difficulties and disagreements arise. 


3a Tt AH: 


om gunine namah 


6. Endowed with good qualities (Gunin). 


When well placed Jupiter gives exceptional qualities (Guna). Primarily, this refers to 
qualities of character. He is honest, generous, broad-minded and learned. One could make a 


much longer list. 


30 TAT ETA AH: 
om gunavatam Sresthaya namah 


7. The best of those endowed with good qualities. 


This name is related to the previous one (Jupiter 6). Gunavatam means all the people 
who have the good qualities. Shrestha means he is the best of all of them. If Jupiter is in the 
Lagna (Ascendant or rising sign), it is the best situation. It’s said that if Budha (Mercury) is in 
the Lagna at the time of a birth, a query or the beginning of anything (Muhurta), it removes 
a hundred defects from the chart. If Shukra (Venus) is in the Lagna it removes a thousand 
defects. But if Guru (Jupiter) is there it removes all the defects. This is an exaggeration to 


make a point that is in many ways true. 


So how should we think of a debilitated Jupiter? The point of Jupiter’s maximum debil- 
itation is in Capricorn, a sign that is concerned with Mana, its status or position. This would 
be like a teacher or Guru who thinks he or she is something special and lacks the humility of 
pure knowledge as exemplified by Jupiter in exaltation in Cancer. What appears as ego may 
well be arising from a fear of being deficient, which can come with the debilitation. Another 


manifestation is a strong interest in ritual while Jupiter in Cancer is more philosophical. 


Many great people have debilitated Jupiter, it helps with the practical application of 
Jupiter’s tendencies, such as in ritualistic religion. Lord Krishna’s Jupiter was debilitated in 
the Navamsha chart, the chart constructed from the nine-fold division of each sign, which 


is indicative of Dharma or sustenance. This was the marker that he came to start the era of 


Capricorn, Kali Yuga. Each Avatara that starts a Yuga has such a marker. There are technical 
reasons why this placement was very favourable for him so if one’s Jupiter is debilitated 
one should not be concerned. If one secretly fears that one’s knowledge is inadequate, one 
should relax the heart. The knowledge that one needs will surely come when one is ready for 
it. 


xo TRU Wa AH: 


om gurinam gurave namah 


8. The teacher of teachers (Guru). 


Lord Shiva is the highest Guru of the Gurus. He is the fount of all lineages of 


knowledge. 


Anyone who teaches us anything is a Guru even though we may associate the term 
with spiritual teachers. In the course of our life, we get many different teachers. The position 
of Jupiter gives a clue to the sort of teacher we get and the relationship we have with them. 
If Jupiter is strong, for example exalted in Cancer, we may have a better chance of getting 
a truly enlightened teacher. If Jupiter is in the eighth house of vulnerability, we may be wary 
of teachers and even have some fallout with them. We may feel they fall short of the high 
principles that we are expecting. A strong Jupiter in the ninth house, the house of the Guru 
and the father, will often indicate that we readily spend time with teachers and respect them 


as well as seeing our own father in that light. 


We can see the whole story around the Guru in detail from looking at Jupiter's 
placement and aspects in the chart. If Jupiter aspects the Lagna (Ascendant), the relationship 
with the Guru is directly at the body level, meaning the person could meet a Guru, live in the 
Guru’s establishment and have a personal connection. If Jupiter aspects the Moon, then the 
relationship is more mental, and the person may follow the Guru’s or the mentor’s teaching 
or direction, but is less likely to live with the Guru. Jupiter aspecting the Lagna lord creates a 
more proactive relationship than an aspect on the Lagna, as the latter is primarily about the 
physical existence. The Lagna lord on the other hand can cast its own aspects, and has more 
of an active influence. Hence, if Jupiter aspects the Lagna lord, there is a deep connection 


between the Guru and the life. 


If Jupiter aspects the lord of your current planetary cycle (Dasha), then you have more 
chance of good guidance; the Guru is looking at you. The Guru may be male or female and 
this will show in the chart. A Jupiter to Sun aspect is on the soul level. Although it may not 
involve much contact, the connection is truly deep and goes straight to the heart. This is a 


wonderful combination. Jupiter’s gift of the Guru is important, because although Jupiter gives 


all manner of different things, it is rare to be in the presence of a fully realized soul and the 


effect on the life is undeniable. 


30 3OUMNY AH: 


om avyayaya namah 


9. Imperishable. Not diminishing (Avyaya). 


Whatever Jupiter is indicating lasts long. Everything of the relative world passes away 
so this name points to the higher indications of Jupiter. It stands for what does not die, which 
is only truth. Pure knowledge or the highest knowing has no dependency on the body or the 
world. It is unchanging and thus never diminishes. 


Vyaya is the name used for the twelfth house, and it means losses. Prefixing ‘A’ means 
there is no loss. Whatever Jupiter offers us in the chart has a good chance of survival. For ex- 
ample, Jupiter is the key planet which shows if a relationship is going to last. It is Jupiter that 
keeps everything going long-term. Everything else pulls and pushes, but Jupiter sustains as 
long as we respect his moral and ethical standards. Teachers are human beings so they have 
their own standards. Jupiter as an archetype stands for the purity of the heart. Every person 
knows in their heart what is right and feels some degree of pinch when doing something 
wrong. Frequently we ignore the subtle promptings because the mind produces 101 reasons 
why the selfish act is in our best interest. Jupiter does not care about our selfishness, but he 
cares about the dirt that builds in the heart with each violation of the inner knowing. 


A classic case was Bernie Madoff who ran a famous Ponzi scheme. He has said that 
he knew what he was doing was wrong but felt he could not get out of it. As soon as his 
Jupiter major cycle started, he realized he had to give it up and after a short time he did. 
Jupiter Dasha has seen much punishment for him from an external perspective but we would 
have to ask him to find out what he feels in his heart. The ancients believed that it was far 
better to pay your debts promptly, rather than trying to postpone the day of judgment. After 
all, we do not know the rate of interest charged by the Gosmic Management System. What 
we do know is that living with dirt in the heart is painful. 


30 SX AA: 
om jetre namah 
10. Victorious (Jetr/). 


Taken with the last name, we can see that this is not about winning some ordinary 


battle. Jupiter represents the victory over the addiction to the rise and fall of relative things. 


He can give a steadiness that comes from a settled awareness unconcerned with whether the 
body lives or dies. He is only devoted to what he knows to be imperishable. This identifica- 


tion makes him imperishable and thus ever victorious. 


This is not about some attitude or strategy for life. It is not about passivity. The settled 
awareness, the quiet heart, is within any level of bodily activity. From astrology we see that 
activity or inertia are a function of the tendencies arising at any time. More Sattva (purity) 
makes one’s psyche calm, more Rajas (passion, activity) makes one very active in many 
ways, more Tamas (inertia) leads to dullness. It just happens that these tendencies arise and 
the astrology shows us when they do. The heart can be quiet in the midst of all of these. 


The influence of Sattva, Rajas and Tamas is seen from the chart. Jupiter is of the nature 
of Sattva along with the Sun and the Moon. The signs they rule, Cancer, Leo, Sagittarius and 
Pisces, also have this quality. The other planets and their signs contribute Rajas and Tamas. 
During a planetary cycle, we are influenced by planets ruling the cycle and the signs they 
occupy. If an astrologer is subject to an influence of Rajas or Tamas, this will affect his or her 
mind. | had a friend in India who was a brilliant astrologer but the strong Tamas of the cycle 
he was in led to rather negative interpretations. He wisely stopped doing readings. 


However, we are not only the mind. What one knows is still true and one can see how 
it is compromised as it moves through the mind and seeing that one can still remain with the 
uncompromised. Perhaps one has to recognize and be honest with oneself about the distor- 
tion that those influences bring into the mind. This takes one deeper into what is untainted. If 
one can live truth in the midst of Rajas and Tamas, one is far more grounded in it than when 
the mind is predominately influenced by Sattva. 


Jupiter is the heavyweight planet, the largest in our solar system containing more 
matter than all the other planets and moons together. It is so big that it is radiating heat from 
its continuing contraction. Had it been 80 times bigger, it would have become a star. 


30 Taras AA: 


om jayantaya namah 


11. Victorious. 


This is the fruit of being the conqueror. Jayanta is also used for Krishna Janmashtami, 
which is the 8th day of the waning Moon of the month of Shravana, Lord Krishna's birthday 
with Rohini Nakshatra rising at midnight. It generally falls in August. 


This tells us that purity of heart is a winning strategy. Deceit will fail even if there is 


some apparent short-term gain. 


30 GTACTa AH: 


om jayadaya namah 


12. The giver (Da) of victory (Jaya). 


Truth never misses. Everything else fails eventually. The last name (Jupiter 11) was 
‘victorious’, and now we have Jayadaya, the one who gives victory. In the great epic, the 
Mahabharata, the two top warriors of the warring sides had studied with Guru Drona. One 
was Arjuna and the other Ashwatthaman, Drona’s son. Due to past circumstances, Drona and 
his son were on the side of the evil king Duryodhana. Before the battle, Arjuna came to the 
Guru following his brother, the king Yudhishthira. Drona blessed them with victory and ex- 
plained the manner of his death. He uttered the famous line, ‘yato dharmastatah krsno yatah 
krsnastato jayah‘, “Where there is righteousness, there is Krishna. Where there is Krishna, vic- 


tory is certain.”? 


Drona knew that blessing Arjuna meant that he himself must die as that was the only 
way Arjuna could win. Drona was the greatest archer and could not be beaten (see Mars 26 
for what happened). This shows the magnanimity of a true Guru who ensures the victory of 
righteousness, even at the cost of his own life. 


30 GATT AA: 


om jivaya namah 


13. The life principle, the vital breath, the individual soul. 


Jiva is also what one lives by, one’s livelihood or profession. It is a name of Pushya 
Nakshatra whose Vedic ruler is Brhaspati. Pushya is in Cancer. Lord Shiva made Brhaspati 
the planet Jupiter as a reward for his devotion. Jupiter is deeply associated with Pushya even 
though its planetary ruler is Saturn. It is said that the Gurus of mankind are residing in the 
constellation of the Great Bear as the Big Dipper, called in Sanskrit the Sapta (seven) Rishis 
(sages). This is considered to be in Pushya though quite far north of the zodiac. Here, Jupiter 


becomes exalted and is thus at its most beneficial and profound. 


There is a conundrum here because the first six degrees of Cancer are said to be Mrta 
or ‘dead’ and Jupiter is at its peak during the first five degrees especially the fifth. | see this 
in the context of the birth chart of Lord Rama, the great avatar, ideal man and the hero of 
The Ramayana epic (one of the great epics of mankind along with The Mahabharata, the story 
around the life of Lord Krishna). 


The chart used for Rama is based on the description in the text. It reflects his greatness 
and fits the story well. Jupiter is exalted in Cancer with the Moon in the first house. The first 
house represents the person and any planets in it (those rising at the time of birth) are influ- 
ential in the person's character. For Cancer rising, Jupiter rules over the sixth and the ninth 
houses. The sixth indicates one’s enemies while the ninth is the father (among other things). 
Rama was born to destroy the great demon Ravana who was harassing everyone. Ravana 
was the son of a great Rishi by a demoness. He was exceptionally wise but could not live by 
truth due to his demonic tendencies. 


In Rama's chart there is Rahu in Sagittarius in the sixth house of enemies indicating a 
demon and ruled by the exalted Jupiter indicating Ravana’s great wisdom. Rama’s father was 
also exceptionally wise, but he died of a broken heart when Rama had to leave the palace for 
the forest at a young age. His departure was due to some great willfulness on the part of his 
stepmother but was in fact manipulated by the gods or by destiny in order that Rama would 
come into contact with Ravana. 


His father did not have to die just as Ravana did not have to behave like a demon but 
the identification with those tendencies would have had to die. Something has to die whether 
it is of the inner or the outer and that is the meaning of the ‘dead’ position of Jupiter. We do 
not know the exact degree of Jupiter in Rama’s chart but it shows us a way of understanding 
the concept of its peak exaltation. 


The Moon is also ‘dead’ when it is exalted at three degrees of Taurus. This exaltation 
place of the Moon is the place of perfection of the mind. That is not about some mental 
capacity but the integration of the understanding with the knowing. When one can feel what 
one knows, then one comes to understand what one knows. Both feeling and understanding 
are of the mind. When Taurus rises with the Moon, then the Moon is ruling the third house. 
This represents our will. However, in the degrees of exaltation, selfishness cannot predomi- 
nate. This is what ‘dies’ when the Moon reaches its peak. 


30 HAs AG: 


om anantaya namah 


14. Endless. 


True knowing survives all change because it is unchanging. That is why there is no 
doubt in it and is of the nature of the nectar of immortality. Ananta means endless. Whatever 
Jupiter influences in the Vedic chart persists. That could be knowledge, fame and establish- 
ments that endure long. The teachings of people with a strong Jupiter survive. If something is 
to last, it needs a strong Jupiter influence at the time of its beginning. 


30 SATA AA: 
om jayavahaya namah 


15. Bringing (Avaha) victory (Jaya). 


Jupiter opens up the wisdom that brings us in touch with our true knowing by its 
placement, aspects and associations. Survival is generally competitive. One theory can be 
replaced by another. For something to be endless, it has to be victorious. Both of these are 
the properties of Truth itself. The more our mind is still, while remaining awake, the closer we 


come to knowing That. 


0 STS Cas AH: 
om angirasaya namah 


16. Belonging to the family of the sage Angiras. 


In Vedic times, everyone belonged to a clan descended from one of the Vedic Rishis 
or sages. This tradition, called one’s Gotra, continues today in India and Indian communities. 
Each sage has his story as well as certain Vedic hymns that he saw and heard in his deep 
awareness. Sage Angiras was born from the mouth or the intellect of Brahma, the creator. 
He cognized many hymns of the Rig Veda and the Atharva Veda, and authored various great 
works including a treatise on Jyotisha and astronomy as well as two books on meteorology. 
Brahman is the great wholeness and Angiras taught in the Manduka Upanishad that the 
knowledge of Brahman is the highest knowledge. He is one of the Sapta or Seven Rishis who 


guide the destiny of mankind. 


The hymns of the Atharva Veda have more that is obviously about astrology and as- 
tronomy than the other Vedas and have powerful mantras for protection from evil. Protecting 
his disciples is one of the duties of a Guru. It says in the ancient laws that the learned should 


not [need to] resort to the police and army because they have the hymns of the Atharva Veda. 


So TATA AA: 
om adhvarasaktaya namah 
17. Fond of and dedicated to (Asakta) religious ceremonies (Adhvara). 


Ritual, especially religious ritual, comes from Jupiter. Someone with Jupiter in the 


Ascendant might have a Puja table or some kind of altar depending on their religion. Particu- 


lary, Adhvara points at the Soma sacrifice. Its purpose was to create abundance of Soma in 
the springtime for the nourishment of all the plants and the environment as a whole. This was 
when the Vedic year started with the new Moon before the Moon is full in Chitra constellation. 
Elsewhere we have discussed about the question of Ayanamsha and the Chitra star, Spica, 
marking the midpoint of the zodiac (Ketu 8). When the Moon is full in the Nakshatra of Chitra, 
the Sun is close to zero Aries. 


The Soma Yajfia or Yaga involved the pressing of the Soma plant and the drinking of 
the nectar. The Soma is offered to the gods as it is said to be their food. The Vedic gods are 
identified with natural phenomena and the growth and progress of all life. Soma is that sub- 
stance that integrates life and thus sustains and promotes it. It says in the Rig Veda that ‘the 
plant that men crush is not the Soma’. The true Soma is internal. When awareness touches 


Being or Truth, nectar arises and one can feel its nourishment throughout the whole system. 


In the Bhagavad Gita, a part of the Mahabharata epic that has become famous for its 
great wisdom, it says that contact with Brahman brings infinite joy. This contact arises in the 
silence between thoughts or experiences. When there is no thought and the mind is com- 
pletely still the absolute essence of all things is glimpsed. The experience is that it wakes up 
in that silence. The joining points of zodiacal signs and constellations give a space that opens 
the door to that contact. This is especially true at the joining point between one year or cycle 
of the Sun through the zodiac and the next. The movement of the Sun from Pisces to Aries 
opens a space that can nourish both men and all of nature. Hence, one can understand the 
importance of sacred acts at that time. 


The wise are fond of the inner contact. That is why they advise being soaked in nectar 
through this ritual at the time of Spring when all of nature is rising in the vitality of creation 
and needs nurturance and integration. Here this relates principally to our own inner sacrifice, 
which produces the internal flow of Soma. 


The Bhagavad Gita (3.14) says that the Vedic Yajhas bring rain beneficial for agricul- 
ture. Drought and harmful flooding are consequences of climate change. In recent decades, 
performances of these Yajnas have become extremely rare. As water problems, especially 
scarcity, increase in India, | expect and hope that some people will make great efforts to re- 
vive the Vedic rituals. 


Xo Tafanra Aq: 


om viviktaya namah 


18. Pure and faultless. Judicious. 


Vivikta also means something abstracted or separated. Also single, alone, the nature 


of the One and the heart of the Guru. Jupiter is said to be riding on a swan. In Sanskrit, the 
word is Hamsa. There is a story that the swan, if given a glass of milk mixed with water, can 
drink the milk and leave the water. This apparently impossible act is symbolic of the capacity 
of awareness to distinguish truth amidst all diverse tendencies. This is the nature of the real- 


ized Guru. 


Hamsa is also made of ‘Ham’ and ‘sa’ meaning ‘I’ and ‘he’. The two joined together 
point to a realization where there is no separation between the Self and the other or between 
the Self and God. This is the nature of the Guru. There is no self-interest because there is no 
one else to distinguish one’s self interest from, and everything is in terms of the Self because 
it is all that one finds wherever one turns the attention. One knows that That is all there is, 
even though one also perceives the manifest differences emerging out of that One. This is the 


basis of perfect compassion. 


Vivikta means no defect. These names of the planets often refer back to the previous 
name, so while this name has its own meaning, it also relates to the last one. The Guru is fond 
of rituals (Jupiter 17) and he does them flawlessly. The key thing when you’re doing Vedic 
rituals is to perform them correctly. They are like a key that must be exactly cut to turn in the 
lock. Jupiter’s influence in our Vedic chart helps us be precise and effective in our work 


This name also means judicious. Judges and the judiciary tend to fall under Jupiter, 
and their responsibility is to see that everyone is following the law without undue harshness 
or discrimination. 


30 FLATHAIT AH: 


om adhvarakrtaparaya namah 


19. Supreme (Para) amongst those who perform (Krta) sacrifices or religious rituals (Adhvara),. 


A sacrifice is a surrendering. The highest sacrifice is described in the first verse of the 
Yajur Veda that speaks of offering one state of awareness into another: the surrender of the 
identification with the small into the realization of the Great. This results in a state of complete 
relaxation of the individual will, where the Cosmic Intelligence starts to direct the life in a per- 


fect way as it is now precisely correlated with the whole functioning of natural law. 


The word sacrifice means letting go or giving up. It follows that the ultimate sacrifice is 
the letting go of the identification with ‘Il’, ‘me’, and ‘mine’. This cannot be accomplished by 


any effort of the mind, it occurs spontaneously when the soul is ready. 


Another meaning of Adhvara is non-injury. This name tells us that Jupiter’s influence 


encourages compassion and non-violence. 


Xo aracuad Aq: 


om vacaspataye namah 


20. The lord of speech. 


Vach is the word, and also the knowledge. The Veda is Vach. One who knows the Veda 
is the Vachas Pati. Pati also means the ruler of or the husband, so Vach is held to be a female 
deity, a goddess. This identifies Jupiter with Brahma, the husband of Saraswati, the Goddess 


of speech, knowledge and wisdom. 


If Jupiter is in the second house relating to speech, then one’s words are valued and 


given respect. That is because Jupiter is the indicator of wisdom as well as weightiness. 


30 aft AA: 


om vasine namah 


21. Longed for, attractive and shining (Vashin). 


What pulls us towards anything? Jupiter attracts because it shines with the light of the 
imperishable, there is the sense of something of real value that transcends ordinary existence. 


The word Vashi is related to Vashya, meaning attraction, which crops up in the Kutas 
or points of marital compatibility. Vashin is a sage who has subdued his senses. His or her 
essence is the real one who is longed for. Someone who has knowledge of the Self and who is 
living in truth is attractive to everyone. Even the animals come to such a person. This explains 
why a person with Jupiter in the Ascendant attracts others. The person may feel it does 
nothing for him personally, but Jupiter is not to be used for oneself. The attraction others feel 
is to the knowledge and to the truth inside that person, rather than to the person himself. We 
see this all around us, as everybody feels attracted towards a genuinely honest person and 


dishonesty repels. Honesty is true beauty. 


Power also attracts but this kind of attraction is not based on truth. People gather 
around for their worldly benefit. As soon as someone sits on a pedestal, problems start to 


arise though a good leader is a blessing for the community. 


30 FTI AA: 


om vasyaya namah 


22. Attraction itself. 


This name refers to Vashya once more, only here it is in terms of attraction itself. This is 
a key factor in relationship compatibility. It is Jupiter that is holding the relationship together. 
As we mentioned under Jupiter 5, if one individual’s Jupiter is connected to the other person’s 
key planets especially the Moon, then the relationship is likely to persist, especially if this is 
reciprocated in the charts. If not, then there can be some imbalance in the sense that one 
person feels much more comfortable in the relationship than the other does. An astrologer 
often hears this complaint. If Jupiter aspects or conjoins the other’s Moon, then this is felt as 


positive support. 


Other types of aspect or conjunction give support but it is less emotional, rather it is 
experienced in other ways. This can cause some dissatisfaction. However, the benefits pro- 
vided are real and that is why the two are together. If we can accept the good without making 
an issue of what we think we do not have, then we can enjoy a happy life. Jupiter enables 
satisfaction. Dissatisfaction comes from other planets, especially Venus as she often stokes 


more desire than she satisfies. 


xo ARTY AH: 


om varisthaya namah 


23. The pre-eminent, the most distinguished. 


He represents such people and all things that are the best. Varishtha, or the word 
‘Guru’, also means the longest, the widest and the heaviest. For instance, in Sanskrit a sylla- 


ble that is long or heavy, e.g. by containing two consonants, is called Guru. 


Jupiter gives pre-eminence. Someone with Jupiter in or aspecting the tenth house 
tends to obtain a high position. Jupiter in the eighth house can give powerful knowledge of 
astrology or the occult. This includes knowledge of the ancient arts and sciences, the hidden 
things of antiquity. Another indication of the eighth is lifespan. The nature of Jupiter is Ananta, 
or endless. If the lord of the twelfth house of loss and reduction is in the eighth and it happens 


to be Jupiter, it can increase the lifespan. 


In the second house, Jupiter can indicate the person comes from an eminent family 
and it can give authority to the appearance and speech. Like this, Jupiter in different places 


in the chart brings eminence to that area of life. 


30 FIPaaqaMTsy AA: 


om vagvicaksanaya namah 


24. Wise, learned, skilful, expert, circumspect in his speech. Far-sighted, having the ability to 


foretell matters. 


Vach (same as Vag) is speech. Vichakshana means skilful so he is an expert in speak- 
ing, like an advocate. Vaqvichakshana can also mean circumspect and farsighted. This is one 
who knows the past, present and future. He can foresee and prophesy. Clearly, Jupiter is the 


key planet for astrologers and all kinds of advisors. 


xo Tau enuy AA: 


om cittaSuddhikaraya namah 


25. The cause (Kara) of a purified (Shudhi) consciousness (Citta). 


The wise Guru shows us what is real. The realization of That, giving attention to That, 
purifies awareness. What is purified awareness? Even the wise live with their tendencies 
and the thoughts that arise due to them. In the Yoga Sutras of Patafjali (1.50), the primary 
text of Yoga, it speaks of how the impressions that arise as the awareness becomes subtler 
predominate over the grosser more external impressions. Ultimately, the experience of pure 
awareness predominates. 


Some have had that experience and still fell back into expressing egoistic tendencies. 
Perhaps their surrender to that knowing that transcends all egotism was not complete. Ex- 
periences of awakening are not enlightenment. They are just experiences. Jupiter indicates 


wisdom rather than experience. The identification with truth is what purifies the mind. 


Everyone has some connection to truth. We sense what is right and not right. We can 
also sense something that is not transient by quietly paying attention to our self, the ‘I’ that is 
experiencing. If we give that our attention, we will know it more. With this, mental purity and 


bliss will increase. 


Xo MA Ay: 


om Srimate namah 


26. Possessed of pure auspiciousness (Shriman). 


Shri is also abundance of all kinds. This arises from a pure awareness. In the Yoga 
Sutras (2.37) it says “all jewels present themselves to one established in non-stealing”. The 
real stealing is when we pursue something knowing that we do not need to. When, instead of 


indulging in a tendency, we simply let it be as it is, then it naturally gets finer and more nec- 


tar-like however crude it appears in the beginning. 


Two people with the same planetary combination do not have the same experience. 
They both have the same tendency but in one its expression may be crude, in the other 
refined. In one it is may be destructive, in the other it might even appear ‘spiritual’. Both offer 
the same invitation to the individual, to know something deeper. Crudeness shakes every- 
thing and this can open one’s eyes and make one look for something finer. As one becomes 
finer by leaving the crude tendency alone one finds its refined manifestations. For instance, 
when Jupiter is conjunct Rahu, the North node at birth. In this case, there may be a deep 
attachment to a teacher or there may be a tendency to criticize him or her or both tendencies 
may manifest. In these cases, one will benefit from gently letting such tendencies go. This is 
an internal process and has nothing to do with external circumstances. Relaxation brings real 


benefit. 


Xo BATA AA: 


om Caitraya namah 


27. The sanctuary. 


Chaitra is the place of refuge. Jupiter people have always been the source of sanctu- 
ary, whether in the form of the religion or good advisors. 


This name may relate to the importance of the lunar month Chaitra, the first in the Vedic 


calendar, which brought the Soma Yaga or sacrifice as discussed in Jupiter 17. 


30 PAAR aSard AH: 


om citrasikhandijaya namah 


28. Born (Ja) in the constellation of the Big Dipper (in Ursa Major), the seven stars which are 
also called the Sapta Rishi. 


This constellation is called Chitrashikhandin which means the wonderment of the 
colour of the peacock’s tail. It falls in the Nakshatra Pushya and is considered highly auspi- 
cious as it is the seat of the spiritual guides of mankind, the seven great immortal seers (Sapta 
Rishi). The Shikha is the tuft on the head of the traditional Brahmin left uncut because of its 
connection to the Sahasra or Crown Chakra. Chitrashikhandin can mean that this area is shin- 


ing and specifically refers to the seven Rishis including Angiras, Jupiter’s father. 


0 FEGUaA AA: 


om brhadrathaya namah 


29. His chariot (Ratha) is vast and expanding (8rhat). 


This name is quite amazing in the light of the latest discoveries from the probes we 


have sent to Jupiter. 


Below is a NASA/Caltech Jet Propulsion Laboratory artist’s impression of Jupiter’s 
magnetosphere, a kind of aura consisting of charged particles held by Jupiter’s magnetic 
field. It is truly immense, many times the size of the Sun. The planet Jupiter is just a small dot 
in the middle. Its size has expanded greatly over the last few years. Even though this may just 
be a phenomena of the moment, it is fitting in the context of this name. It is driven by matter 
being stripped from the volcanoes of the moon lo and so may well be an ongoing expansion 
process. Astronauts who went to the Moon have said they heard the sound OM in space. If 


you listen to the sound of Jupiter’s magnetosphere available from NASA, there is an underly- 


ing sound that could be interpreted like that. 


Magnetic 


vy if! axis 


“ | 4 


BY 


Pisema pe 
lous 


1,C03,000 kin 


tt a - 


Image credit NASA/JPL 


The Sanskrit root ‘Br is indicative of greatness and endless expansion. It gives us the 
word Brahman, the Great. This is what the saints and yogis are said to realize. In meditation, 
many people have moments when they experience a vastness or an expansion. This is a taste 


of That. The ‘r’ in ‘br’ is a vowel in Sanskrit pronounced like the ‘ry’ in jewelry. 


30 Se GMa Aa: 


om brhadbhanave namah 


30. Shining (Bhanu) greatly or the great one (Brhat) shining. 


The planet Jupiter is not a star but it radiates its own energy, not just reflecting the light 
of the Sun. Brhad is also Brahman, the great One, the Supreme Being. It is the ultimate light. A 
true Guru is one who has dissolved their ego just leaving the little that is required to function. 
The Indian teacher Ammachi commented that when she is asked a question, the ego arises 


in order to construct the answer and then subsides. 


The aura of the wise is vast just like the planet Jupiter's is vast compared to the visible 
body. 


30 SECTS AA: 


om brhaspataye namah 


31. The great lord or the lord of the great ones, the gods who are the personified laws of 
nature. 


Brhaspati is one of the most frequently used names for Jupiter. He guides or even 
commands the natural law. The laws of nature are integrated in the wholeness of nature that is 
the Shakti or nature of the cosmic person, or the absolute. Brahman, the Cosmic wholeness, 
is that which is greater than even the sum of the absolute and its nature. It is pure wholeness. 


There is a story that a wild elephant charged the Buddha intent on killing him. The 
Buddha looked upon him with such love that the elephant came to a stop and became tame. 
There are hundreds of such stories illustrating how sanctity gives power over nature. This is 


what is meant by this name. 


30 AAAs AA: 


om abhistadaya namah 


32. Granting (Da) that which we desire (Abhista). 
In a birth chart, Jupiter is the giver of boons. 


Any desire expressed in the presence of a knower of Brahman tends to be fulfilled. 
We all experience that the more relaxed we are, the more readily any impulse arising within 
us comes to fruition. The more we try to grasp it, the more it retreats from us. | say ‘impulse’ 
rather than ‘thought’ because when we are quiet inside there is more integration of heart and 


mind. Then thoughts are just fine impulses, different in character from what we consider reg- 


ular thoughts. 


so eras AH: 


om suracaryaya namah 


33. The teacher (Acarya) of the gods (Sura). 


This is similar to Jupiter 31 but emphasizes that the pure hearted actually educate the 
natural law so it becomes more benign. The opposite to this is when nature becomes increas- 
ingly wild in response to our selfishness. We are witnessing the later at this time in history. 
The storm is rising both of humanity’s impact on the biosphere and nature’s rage. Humanity 
seems divided into those who are ready to accept that we must take a different path and 


those who want to keep on indulging in the hope that there will be no consequences. 


Xo QUUeaTT AA: 


om suraradhyaya namah 


34. Worshipped (Aradhya) by the gods (Sura). 


The teacher must be respected for the disciple to acquire the knowledge. It is an 
attitude that encompasses receptivity. Being receptive is a true form of worship. What more 
can one give than one’s full attention? 


30 GTA A AH: 


om surakaryakrtodyamaya namah 


35. Ready (Udyama) to do (K;t) the work (Karya) of the gods (Sura). Diligent or persevering in 
that. 


The gods are the natural laws. They sustain the universe. The Vedic literature speaks of 
Sura and Asura. The Sura harmonize and sustain while the Asura cause destruction and thus 
change. Both are essential to evolution. Jupiter represents priests and the leaders of society. 
Their responsibility is to sustain life and is thus doing the work of the Sura on their level. In the 
Vedic chart, Jupiter’s conjunction and aspects uphold whatever is indicated in the places in- 


fluenced. The chart is the universe in miniature. 


Jupiter’s power is in his blessing. All of us have some blessing power. The more truthful 
and chaste we are, the greater it is. If a good person blesses us, even though it seems just 


a few words, some extra good luck follows us. That is why, as we meet and separate from 


people, we repeat words of blessing — “Go safely”, “Be well”. We do it even if we have no 
belief or understanding of the concept of blessing. Where are the mechanics of such bless- 


ings discussed? 


It is in the nature of things that the elders give their blessings to the youth. Even an old 
lady in a care home has so much to give and she wants to do it. Even if she remembers little, 
her power of blessing is very real. If we pay attention, we will feel and even experience the 


effects of both blessings and curses. This is a central theme in the Vedic literature. 


In Jupiter 34, we see that he is worshipped by the gods. Jupiter 35 tells us that he is 
ready to do their work. This means that if we show respect and serve the worthy, they will help 
us. This is how we accomplish what otherwise could be impossible. | learnt this at an early 
age and was diligent in speaking respectfully and trying to assist my elders. The result was 


that they were very helpful to me. Those with great learning, took trouble to teach me. 


In the ancient epic, the Ramayana, when Lord Rama is to go to the forest, he and his 
wife Sita approach his mother and touch her feet. Even today, this is the way younger people 
respect elders in the East. The text records that they left that place ‘shining’ with the power 
of the blessing they received. It is said in the ancient texts that the word of a chaste woman 
cannot fail. This is true of anyone with a pure heart. Whatever goodness we have in our 
hearts, if we wish someone well, a little of our good goes to help them and that is why we feel 
a wave of sweetness in our heart. Giving gives, taking takes. That is why the wise have always 
preferred giving to receiving. 


There is a story about Motilal Nehru. He lost his first son and wife in the childbirth and 
was having great difficulty having further children with his new wife. He and two companions 
went to visit a famous yogi who lived in a tree. They told the yogi of his longing for a son and 
the yogi looked for some time at Motilal and said, “It is not in your destiny to have a son.” One 
companion argued saying that all it needed was the blessing of the yogi and the fate could 
change. The yogi looked at him and then sprinkled some water on his head saying, “By doing 
this, | have sacrificed all the benefits of all the austerities | have conducted over generations.” 
The next day, the yogi was dead. Ten months later on Nov. 14, 1889 Motilal Nehru had a son, 
Jawaharlal Nehru, who became the first Prime Minister of India. His daughter, Indira Gandhi, 
became Prime Minister and after her, so did her son Rajeev Gandhi. The skeptics will dismiss 


such stories but the basic idea is irrefutable. Blessings, like curses, have their effect. 


If someone curses us, we have to bear with it. If we are blameless, then it will have little 
effect. If we have any feelings of guilt, whatever reason we imagine for it, it is best to take a 
positive attitude. The past is what it is but we have control over the present. The ancient law 
book of Manu, the Manu Smriti, says that, if we have feelings of guilt, we should undertake 


some penance until those feelings go away. There is merit in the Christian concept of making 


a confession and receiving guidance on an appropriate penance. At the end of the day, all that 
really matters to all of us is feeling at ease. In Jyotisha, it is a key principle that it is Jupiter that 


makes us take the wise path. 


Xo Maratea AA: 


om girvanaposakaya namah 


36. Supporting, nourishing and advancing (Poshaka) the deities (Girvana), all the 33 crores of 


the gods or laws of nature. 


Knowledge sustains every kind of action. One way of thinking about nature is that there 
is a government, it has a head and then there are many levels of administration. Hence the 33 
crores (a crore is 10 million). When one goes to get a small permit from the local government, 
then the junior official who has to give it is a kind of deity at that moment. She is the one who 
has to be made happy. Similarly, traditional cultures and those whose hearts are wide open 
recognize the life power in every little and big thing in creation. If they want to uproot a plant, 
cut a tree or kill an animal, then some process of paying respect to the nature and even tak- 


ing permission is natural. If we protect nature, Jupiter blesses us. 


Some years ago, | saw a report from Ethiopia on the BBC web site. The event occurred 
June 9, 2005. A girl had been kidnapped from a village and was being carried off by a gang 
of youths when they were approached by a group of lions. The young men fled. The lions 
surrounded the girl and stood guard until rescuers arrived. Then they quietly withdrew. Nature 


protects the innocent. 


30 e-aTy AA: 


om dhanyaya namah 


37. Bestowing virtue, fortune and happiness. 


Dhana is literally the prize, that which we cherish and value. Dhanya bestows it. 
Jupiter's aspect or other association in the chart can confer things of real value. Ultimately, 
Jupiter gives a pure heart and the unalloyed joy and sweetness that fill it. Jupiter also repre- 
sents those people who sponsor and present prizes and rewards, the people of means and 


position in society. On a higher level, it represents the givers of true knowledge. 


Xo TSTTa AA: 


om gispataye namah 


38. Lord (Pati) of the divine singers (G7s), those who Know and chant the Veda. 


Learning is deeply connected to the strength and influence of Jupiter at the time of 
birth. Strength and influence are two different things. Jupiter may be strong but positioned so 


it has little influence over the personality. Then one has an appearance of knowledge. 


Traditionally, the highest learning is in the spiritual arts and sciences. The root knowl- 
edge is the Veda, which is sung or chanted. Jupiter rules over the element of Akasha or ether 
through which all sound passes. Those with hearing problems generally have some affliction 
to Jupiter such as having Jupiter in the sixth house of disease with other afflictions. Jupiter is 
especially important in the charts of writers as well as all those who teach and express any 


kind of knowledge. 


xo FIT AA: 


om girisaya namah 


39. The one who dwells in or is the lord (/sha) of the mountains (Gir/). 


We often think of the great gurus as living in remote areas in the Himalayas. This is also 
a reference to Lord Shiva who is conceptualized as dwelling atop the mountain Kailasha in 
Western Tibet. It is sacred to four religions: Hinduism, Buddhism, B6n and Jainism. 


Several saints have mentioned that there is a community of sages living in that part 
of Tibet. These sages are many hundreds of years old and are clustered around an ashram 
called Gyanganj. | have met two saints who either visited the ashram or met an adept from 
there. One showed me a newspaper clipping about one of these sages who stayed for some 


time in Varanasi. This saint could convert sunlight into material objects. 


30 TTY AH: 


om anaghaya namah 


40. The sinless. 


Anagha is a very sacred divine name particularly associated with Shri Dattatreya. Its 
meanings include pure, spotless and without injury as well as innocent and handsome. That 
which is spotless is naturally handsome. Jupiter in strength and strongly influencing the As- 
cendant keeps a person on a path characterized by innocence, purity and unselfishness. Our 
DNA directs us to look after our own interests. In that sense, selfishness is natural. However, 


sharing and caring makes society stronger and thereby enhances our own self-interest. If we 


share with our neighbours, they share with us. 


| remember reading a news report about a trial of a sugar company executive who took 
a one million dollar bribe. His defence was “If someone offers you money and you don’t take 
it, you must be mad.” He had a temporary gain followed by punishment. His society had to 
bear with shortages and many problems because of his misdirection of resources. Sinless- 


ness arises from non-stealing and the blessing of that state is priceless. 


30 raga Aa: 


om dhivaraya namah 


41. He has the best of intellects. 


Jupiter blesses us with intelligence. Dhi7 is intellect and intelligence itself. Vara is the 
best of anything as well as a boon or blessing. In Vedic Astrology, it says that four Grahas 
grant high intelligence: Jupiter, the Sun, Rahu and Ketu. Jupiter is the best because it is the 
least likely to exploit that intelligence in a way that disadvantages others. Jupiter’s mantras 


are a storehouse of blessings. 


xo TeauTe AH: 
om dhisanaya namah 


42. Intelligent and wise. 


In the Vedas, Dhisaria is a name for the Soma drink as well as the goblet in which 
it is held. The connection between intelligence and nectar is inseparable. One cannot exist 
without the other. The touch of truth brings wisdom to awareness and causes nectar to flow 
into the physical. They are like two sides of the same coin. Thus it has been wisely said, that 
one can tell wisdom by the sweetness that accompanies it. If there is no nectar in what you 


think you know then it is a thought or belief and not true knowing. 


Dhisana is also speech and sacred expressions. Jupiter rules over expression and the 


quality of it. 


Ko Teouyyuy AH: 


om divyabhusanaya namah 


43. Having divine (Divya) ornaments (Bhdsana). 


The Graha Jupiter can give us a glow in which others sense a certain divinity or higher 


wisdom. This again reminds us of Jupiter’s vast magnetosphere, which can be seen due to its 


radio waves and its wonderful auroras. 


30 Cayo AH: 


om devapijitaya namah 


44. Worshipped (Pujita) by the gods (Deva). 


Deva is the shining one, and can refer to those whose purity of life has given them a 
certain glow. They are worshipping the source of that purity which is wisdom itself. Those who 


embody that are themselves objects of honour. 


Some people see a golden aura around the wise. Others see it everywhere. Wisdom is 
not localized to any individual. It is only that it can become concentrated and those places of 


concentration attract those who have some degree of insight and love for that. 


In many books about saints, we find descriptions of celestial beings worshipping the 
saint who is in no way affected by this. The birds that flocked around Saint Francis were 
following the same law of nature. | once was a guest of a very delightful couple. The wife has 
Jupiter in Sagittarius and is a particularly kind and exemplary person who meditates every 
day. In their previous house, there were two fruit trees, one each side of the entrance. The fruit 
was delicious but the monkeys were taking all of it. One day, seeing this she marched up to 
the trees and said, loudly, “this tree is for you and this one is for me.” Amazingly, the monkeys 


accepted this and left the fruit on one tree alone. 


So Tera AA: 


om dhanurdharaya namah 


45. Carrying (Dhara) a bow. 


Dhanus is a bow. It is also the Vedic name for the sign Sagittarius. This is the Mila- 
Trikona or most favoured of Jupiter’s signs. It represents the proverbial battle of good and evil, 
light and dark. A bow has the power to hold and release a weapon, it gives great potential 
which has to be realized. The Nakshatra Punarvasu, which starts in Gemini and enters Cancer 
is also ruled by Jupiter and has the bow as a symbol. The next Nakshatra Pushya in the 
middle of Cancer is the place where Jupiter reaches its full expression becoming exalted and 


has the symbol of an arrow. Punarvasu moving to Pushya fully achieves its mark. 


Jupiter is not portrayed holding a bow; he is shown carrying the items indicating 


knowledge and renunciation. However, these are the ‘bows’ that create the potential for the 


expression of wisdom. Once the purity of life is established, the bow is drawn and then the 


expression of it is effortless. 


xo @eaeed AA: 


om daityahantre namah 


46. Destroying (Hantr) the demonic tendencies. 


While the Devas are the divine consciousness radiating its purity the Daityas are the 
egoistic tendencies that cover the truth. The influence of Jupiter exposes these. Once we see 
what we are doing, then a kind of sweet shame arises. If we are true to ourselves we gently 
leave those tendencies alone. Working on our tendencies to fix the situation only makes it 
worse. When we work on our neediness and other unhelpful habits, whatever energy we have 


is given over to those. Leaving them gently be lets them wither for lack of attention. 


If this is difficult, then we need to find a mentor to help us through the necessary 
changes. Jupiter rules mentors whatever the area they are expert in. If we are having difficulty 
finding a mentor who we are sure we can trust, then these mantras can help. They are in- 
tended to strengthen Jupiter within us and around us. 


xo COAT AH: 
om dayasaraya namah 


47. The very essence of compassion. 


Daya is compassion and Sara is the best form of it. This is his wealth. This relates to 
the previous name (Jupiter 46). Fighting with our problematic tendencies coarsens life by its 
harshness. Compassion leaves them be where they are and as they are with gentleness and 


even kindness. Wisdom is always accompanied by compassion. 


All these good qualities increase when a person comes under the influence of Jupiter 
either at birth or by Dasha, the planetary cycles, or by transit. Wherever Jupiter’s glance or as- 


pect falls is touched by that compassion of grace. 
Xo Saha AA: 
om dayakaraya namah 


48. Causing (Kara) compassion (Daya). 


Jupiter is life and causes compassion. That is how these are inextricably linked. We 


see a person who does not exhibit compassion as mentally abnormal. The military have 
programs to combat a tendency by soldiers to shoot over the heads of the enemy. Why do 
we go to war? Has some psychopath been responsible for starting it? The great Mahabharata 
war that killed millions involved numerous noble souls. It came about because of the evil 
tendencies of one man and his determination to be the king. His family, teachers and friends 
constantly gave him good advice but he rejected it all. As a result, they were all obliged 
by their loyalties to participate. Most of the fighting men of Northern India and some neigh- 
bouring states participated. Only twelve of the leading warriors remained after the war finally 


stopped. This is a powerful reminder of the value of life and compassion. 


Wherever there is life, we can find compassion. It is all around us. Exceptional exam- 
ples are found in the lives of the saints. One lady saint was visited by a man who had been 
sick for many years. After he left, her disciples observed that the saint was exhibiting the 
same symptoms as the man’s disease. After some time she recovered. When asked, she said, 


“For him it would have meant years of suffering while for me it is just some minutes.” 


Xo TIRCUATATS AA: 


om daridryanasanaya namah 


49. Destroying (Nashana) poverty (Daridrya). 


This is another insight into the grace bestowed by the aspect of Jupiter or the blessing 
of a great soul. A man once approached a great Guru in Northern India crying from poverty. 
The Guru told him to touch the leg of the Guru’s chair and piles of bank notes fell to the floor. 
He asked the man to take the money and start a particular type of business. The man, a 
Muslim, went away and after some time returned. He informed the Guru that he had become 
very wealthy by following his advice and offered a donation to the ashram. He knew that 
this Guru never accepted donations as he had promised his mother he would not become a 
begging Swami. The Guru laughed and said “Do you think the money | gave you made a hole 


in my coffers which you want to fill?”4 


Life is much more than we imagine. We tend to live by our beliefs but these are just 
thought patterns. Even if they appear good in general, at any moment they may not be the 
best for the situation. The perfection of life gives us the natural ability to know within the heart 
what is true even if we cannot mentally understand why. We know it is true because there is 
a sweetness and a cleanness in it even if it appears to involve some sacrifice. Most of our 
beliefs are convenient constructs that support our egoistic tendencies though we will usually 
deny this. If one is honest, one sees one’s own self-interest even in what we most deeply 


believe. It takes great courage to relax our grip on those mental constructs and fall into the 


arms of the gentle knowing coming from our innermost self. However, without that relaxation 


the real poverty of life only grows. The simple letting go opens unlimited possibilities. 


30 {-OTy Aa: 


om dhanyaya namah 


50. Bestowing wealth (Dhanya). 


Wealth follows the disappearance of poverty (Jupiter 49). As this name has been 
repeated, a secondary meaning should be taken. Dhana is the second house. This house can 
indicate wealth and also speech and other resources like learming. In Jupiter 37, the context 
provided by the associated names indicated speech, virtue and knowledge. Here the context 
relates to wealth. The repetition tells us to focus on all of these areas in our analysis of the as- 


trological chart. 


Xo ClAUTTTA EAT AH: 
om daksinayanasambhavaya namah 


51. Born (Sambhava) during the Southern course of the Sun (Daksinayana). 


The Southern course starts from around June 21%, the Summer solstice in the North- 
em hemisphere. Thereafter the Sun moves to the South for six months. During this time, the 
Northem hemisphere experiences cooling and a more inward tendency. This is in contrast to 
the more outward tendency of the Spring and the months around it when the Sun is getting 
higher in the sky. 


Jupiter represents wealth and high position but fundamentally it is about a gentle retir- 
ing inside from which a deeper perspective is found on life. It is this deeper perspective that 
provides the basis for moving forward, for the creation of life and the expansion of everything. 
Jupiter is known for expansion but this name reminds us that expansion is based on an inner 
motion, a retiring rather like the pulling back of an arrow on the bow. The settled mind and 
heart have vastly greater potential but there is no tension, only alertness. 


Auspicious works are usually begun during the Uttarayana or Northern course but 
become ‘Guru’ or substantial during the Southern course. In the same way, Jupiter relates to 
middle age when our undertakings tend to mature. He rules over this time of life. 


xo aaa Aa: 


om dhanurminadhipaya namah 


52. The ruler (Adhipa) of Sagittarius (Dhanus) and Pisces (Mina). 


Dhanus is Jupiter’s male sign. It is the priest or educator actively working for educating 
and benefitting the people. In Jupiter 45, we discussed about Sagittarius as a place of war 
between good and evil. In this sign, Jupiter feels a duty and inspiration to support the forces 
of good. Sagittarius is full of wisdom so it may feel its opinion is naturally correct. Therefore, 


its challenge is being able to discuss and appreciate other people’s opinions. 


Mina is the ocean, it is vast like the nature of Jupiter receiving without reservation all 
the streams and rivers. Mina is simply being, absorbing all the diverse tendencies in its broad 
fulfilment. Pisces people may not speak much and their space is vaster than others so they 
may not be easily understood. They feel the deep currents below the (relatively) calm surface. 
It is the last and thus the most advanced of the twelve signs since it represents the end of 
the path that started in Aries. Since it accepts everything, like the ocean, Pisces people may 
ingest things which are not ideal for their health. In fact drinking, eating and accumulating 
wealth is what they often like to do as Taurus, the sign of the mouth and wealth, is in third 


house from it, and the third is the place of desire. 


Pisces is the sign closest to Brahman, the great. This leads to a sense of greatness. 
While this is often deserved, the challenge of Pisces is controlling or overcoming their own 
ego. Both signs benefit from sitting quietly and listening to others speak. 


30 CATA AH: 


om devaya namah 


53. Divine (Deva) by nature. 


In the Vedic literature it says that mankind is primarily Rajasic while the divine beings 
are primarily Sattvic. Thus man is frequently in the grip of passion and constantly active while 
the Sattvic beings are calm and naturally satisfied. The influence of Jupiter in the Vedic chart 
contributes the Sattvic quality to whatever it aspects or the significations of the house it 
occupies. Planets in its own sign or Nakshatra also have this underlying influence. An afflic- 


tion to Jupiter can mean that the Sattvic quality is disturbed. 


We are all a mixture of the three, Sattva, Rajas and Tamas but from the arrangements 
of planets in the chart one can see what sort of mix shows in each area of the life of a person. 
This is modified at different times by the Dashas or planetary cycles. The Jupiter cycle always 
follows the cycle of Rahu. Rahu is Tamas and may bring addictive tendencies and other con- 
fusion unless well placed and associated. When the Jupiter cycle starts, Sattva rises in the 


person and they can recoil from the past behaviour and ‘clean up their act’. We grow through 


the many challenges of Rahu and this is the basis of the wisdom that shines forth in Jupiter’s 
Dasha. 


So PSEA AH: 


om dhanurbanadharaya namah 


54. Carrying (Dhara) a bow (Dhanus) and arrow (Bana). 


In Jupiter 45 and 52, we discussed the bow with respect to certain Nakshatras and 
the symbology of Sagittarius. In this name we see that he not only carries a bow indicating 
potential but has the arrow to achieve his mark. Dhanus can also mean an instrument for 
measuring the position of the sun and planets. Bana can mean a part of the mathematics for 
computing their position. Thus this name can indicate an astronomer. 


The Guru is not merely sitting; his attention penetrates our hearts and illuminates us so 
we can see what is true. The Guru quality is ever abiding within us so we are not dependent 
on the physical presence of a teacher. Even without a teacher, the Guru quality is lively and 
watching. When needed, it will appear. It is our very Self. 


a0 BS AA: 
om haraye namah 
55. The lord. 


Hari is aname of Lord Vishnu and indicates both a ray of light and the yellow, greenish 
or tawny colour (see Sun 65). Jupiter's predominant colour is considered to be yellow. He is 
associated with yellow gems, primarily the yellow sapphire. Jupiter's finger is the index finger 
but it is usually considered more auspicious to wear the gem on the ring finger. A fiery gem on 
the index finger can make us irritable. If wearing a sapphire, a gold setting is preferred. 


Hari suggests the continuous arising of joy, Ha Ri. This is the fruit of wisdom. Chant this 


name to rise above sorrow. 


30 aS TATA AA: 
om angirovarsasanjataya namah 


56. Born (Safijata) in the year (Varsa) of Angiras. 


Each year has a name in the 60 year cycle defined by the motion of the mean Jupiter. 
These Jovian years correspond to the calendric years (see Jupiter 4). The year starts when the 


Vedic year starts. 


This and the following are names that describe the birth of the planet as if it were a 
human born on earth. The classic Jataka Parijata describes one born in the year Angirasa as 
‘rich, wise, experienced and always compassionate.’ These are the qualities expected in a 


guru or guide. 


Another name with the same meaning is Angirasabdasanjata. 


30 St PIAA AA: 


om angirah kulasambhavaya namah 


57. Born (Sambhava) in the family (Kula) of Brahmarishi Angiras. 


Jupiter 16 indicates that he is the son of Rishi Angiras. This name indicates that all 
Gurus are considered members of the tribe or social group founded by the sage. That is why 
all those who teach spiritual wisdom are classed as Brahmins and are thus expected to main- 
tain a spiritual practice and follow a Sattvic lifestyle, as far as reasonably possible. There is 
no firm rule here as the infinite variety of planetary positions can give every kind of tendency. 
Those Gurus who insist on perfect vegetarianism and so forth are ruled by Saturn, the disci- 
plinarian. The more lenient are ruled by Jupiter. Birds of a feather flock together. 


It is interesting how this arises. Saturn is the brother of Yama and reaches its weakest 
place (debilitated) in Yama’s Nakshatra Bharant in the middle of Aries. The symbol of Bharant 
is the Yoni or female organ. This Nakshatra has powerful energy that is hard to control and 
so Saturn here tends to lose focus. Thus strict control is important to Saturn though it is 
not necessarily about celibacy. Saturn’s strongest sign (the MulaTrikona) is Aquarius, which 
is a passionate sign, but its natural desire is to maintain Dharma or righteousness. Jupiter is 
weakest in Capricorn, which is the sign of big business. Thus money making and association 
with the wealthy can be distracting for Jupiter and religious institutions which are ruled by 


Jupiter usually follow the charity model. 


Jupiter’s strongest sign, Sagittarius, is the sign indicating priests and those who 
actively uphold the Dharma but its natural desire is to enjoy pleasure. We see this in the 
Vedic chart and learn this from the story of Brhaspati who had children by three women, one 
of whom was the wife of his brother. From this we can understand how unmarried Gurus 
and priests are not always celibate. This disappoints the disciples and followers because the 
Sagittarius type is the classic role model and everyone looks to them for setting a perfect 
standard. The other Jupiter Guru, the Pisces person, tends to desire wealth. If he starts 
charging for his services, then we should understand. Strangely, in all of us there is a natural 


desire which appears contrary to our inherent nature. This easily causes confusion. However, 


that is how life has been designed. Probably, the idea of taking vows about relationships and/ 
or money is an approach to controlling a perceived weakness. Then determination battles 
with desire. Jyotisha shows us how there are times when maintaining vows comes easily and 
others when it is much more difficult. | suspect that humility alone can manage through the 


harder phases. 


We should also be clear that not all teachers and Gurus are primarily Jupiter people. 


Venus is also a Guru and every planet has great wisdom to share. 


xo Tareas Aa: 


om sindhudesadhipaya namah 


58. The ruler (Adhipa) of the country (Desha) through which the Sindhu or Indus river runs. 


Sindhu also means the sea so this could refer to the seashore as well as waters of 
all Kinds. Why do humans love to be beside water, especially the seashore? Seventy percent 
of the US population lives in a county bordering the sea despite the vast inland areas of the 
country. A view of any water adds significantly to the price of a house. Pisces is the ocean and 
Cancer indicates lakes and rivers. Both are strong places for Jupiter. The water’s edge has a 
special healing energy, which we all feel. This name confirms it. 


Names like this of the planets and their relation to different parts of India is used in 
resolving questions. The Indus river flows through what is now Pakistan. 


30 Sad AA: 


om dhimate namah 


59. Highly intelligent (Ohiman). 


Literally possessed of Dhi or intellectual capacity. Dhi is not merely the intellect. The 
word Samadhi is known to many as a state of settled or quiet awareness. Nirvikalpa Samadhi 
is a state without thought. Savikalpa Samadhi retains the inner silence along with mental 
activity. In either case, the Dhi or intelligence or consciousness is unruffled and steady indi- 


cated by the word Sama meaning evenness. 


Dhi also means reflection and meditation including prayer and devotion. Therefore, the 
name Dhiman means that this comes naturally to him. When people start a Dasha or cycle of 


Jupiter, then they often take to practices that cultivate Samadhi, formally or informally. 


30 CAUHTATT AA: 


om svarnakayaya namah 


60. Golden (Svarna) bodied (Kaya). 


He has that kind of lustre as we alluded to before. It is the light of wisdom seeping forth 


from every pore. 


30 ACY AA: 
om caturbhujaya namah 
61. Having four arms (Chatur Bhuja). 


Jupiter is deeply related to the Vedas, which have a fourfold division. The four divisions 
of the Veda are the Rig, Sama, Yajur and Atharva. Thus this name suggests one who has 


broad knowledge and skills, covering many areas. 


Prior to the Second World War, cultures all over the world used the four armed 
Swastika as a symbol of good luck and deep wisdom. Some places refused to abandon their 
tradition and even in the West, this is slowly coming back. The proper appearance of the 
Swastika looks nothing like the symbol used in the Second World War. 


xo CATS AA: 
om hemangadaya namah 
62. Giving golden (Hema) coloured limbs (Anga). 


Gold is the metal of Jupiter. ‘Da’ is to give or produce but it can also mean to see. 
Purified consciousness creates a golden coloured aura but it can also enable one to see such 


an aura around everything. 


xo GHATS AH: 
om hemavapuse namah 


63. Having a beautiful golden (Hema) form (Vapus). 


This emphasizes what was already said. The state is not merely on the surface but all 


pervading. 


Ko SATO 


om hemabhusanabhutsitaya namah 


64. Decorated (Bhusita) with golden (Hema) ornaments (Bhusana). 


His radiance is pure gold. When a real knower of reality is found, this can be sensed 


even by those who have never seen an aura. 


30 TOaaTaTy AH: 


om pusyanathaya namah 


65. The Vedic ruler (Natha) of Pushya Nakshatra. 


Pushya is nourishment or blossoming. Wherever Jupiter appears in the chart, if 
otherwise well-placed, it promotes or causes a blossoming of the areas of life to which it is 
connected. Especially those houses it aspects benefit. Jupiter aspects the sign opposite and 


those in trinal positions. 


Pushya is the Nakshatra in which Jupiter gets exalted. Its planetary ruler is Saturn 
and the combination of wisdom and discipline produces the highest fruits. It is said to be 
good for all things except marriage. This is because of an ancient story. In this constellation, 
is found the stars of the Big Dipper said to be the seven sages who guided the destiny of 
mankind. They were all married but at some stage they suspected their wives of infidelity, later 
disproved, and sent them away becoming the six principal stars of Krittika Nakshatra, the 
Pleiades. Only Arundhati, the wife of Vasistha remained because her devotion to her husband 
was beyond question. She and her husband are the two stars very close to each other. This 
little story is the sages way of warning us that when the Moon is in this constellation, suspi- 


cions of infidelity can arise. See also the Moon 20. 


Jupiter rules three Nakshatras. The first, Punarvasu is ruled by Aditt (Sun 1 and 6), and 
has an energy of unboundedness. The second, Vishakha is ruled by Indra and Agni. It is a 
place of faithfulness. There is a related story of a lady who had made her choice for marriage 
but he was away for a very long time. She stood by her commitment even when approached 
by a Rishi. The Moon is debilitated right at the end of Vishakha, a point of great spiritual 
potential. Indra rules over the Pranas or vital airs of the body and Agni over the inner fire. 
Mastery of both gives complete control and this makes enlightenment possible. The third, 
PurvaBhadra has an energy of transcending. Therefore, all three of Jupiter’s Nakshatras have 
a powerful spiritual influence. Each is broken by a Rashi boundary between an air sign and 
a water sign. Find out more about this in the Ghapter on Secrets of Vimshottari Dasha in the 


printed version of this book. 


So TOUTS AUS AF: 


om pusyaragamanimandanamanditaya namah 
66. Adorned (Mandita) with decorations (Vandana) made of yellow sapphires (Pusyaraga 
mani). 


This is the gem considered best for enlivening the qualities of Jupiter. See Jupiter 55 
for how to wear it. 


30 HINTST TANTS TH: 


om kaSapuspasamanabhaya namah 


67. Resembling (Samanabha) Kasha flowers (Puspa). These are a certain yellow flower, which 


are preferred for the worship of Jupiter. 


xo S-cIqaMyas AA: 
om indradyamarasanghapaya namah 


68. The protector (Pa) of the collection (Sangha) of the immortals (Amara) consisting of Indra 
and others (Adi - the Vedic gods). 


These gods personify the natural world. Indra is associated with lightening, Agni with 
fire, Vayu with wind and so forth. They could be said to be the collection of natural laws. He 
is the lord and protector of them. Indra has all the power and weapons; Jupiter or Brhaspati 
has the wisdom and the Vedic knowledge and, as this is more powerful, he is the leader or 


protector. 
30 FHAAAAT AH: 
om asamanabalaya namah 


69. Of unequalled (Asamana) power (Bala). 


There is no power greater than knowledge and there is no knowledge greater than the 


knowledge arising from Self-realization. (See also Sun 4) 


Xo ATAU ag Yas AH: 
om sattvagunasampadvibhavasave namah 


70. Shining (Vibhavasu) with the wealth (Sampad) of the quality of purity (GSattva Guna). 


Jupiter’s cycle follows that of Rahu. During Rahu, one may face the darkness in various 
ways. One struggles for security and happiness. When the Jupiter cycle starts one thinks, “1 
should tidy up my life, quit my bad habits, etc.” This is the influence of Sattva. It as if the lights 
have gone on and one can see clearly. Tamas hides the light of truth and the Sattva planets 


led by Jupiter reveal it. 


Sattva is good but it is still of this world. As Lord Krishna says to Arjuna in the 
Bhagavad Gita (2.45), the great teaching on the battlefield, “Go beyond Sattva even; know 
that which is Truth itself’. There is Sat or pure being and Sattva, which is the quality of purity. 
From Sat, Sattva arises. Many think it is the other way around, that Sat comes from Sattva. 
However, without Sat, one cannot really understand what Sattva is and one ends up following 
lists of rules. This can cause much time to be spent fruitlessly, at least as far as realization of 


truth is concerned. One may benefit in other ways. 


As Vedic astrologers, we can see clearly the level of Sattva due to the birth chart 
and the planetary cycles and transits. When Sattva rises for us, we start to think, “Sattva is 
important”, and when Sattva is declining due to the planetary influences one makes another 
policy. Such is the world. Even some Gurus get deluded because the mind is always subject 
to these influences. Arjuna was a man of great Sattva but, in the face of a great crisis before 
the battle, it did not help. He was confused when he tried to apply his Sattvic ideas to the sit- 
uation he faced. Lord Krishna guided him beyond this to true wisdom. 


Ko THUS AA: 


om bhusurabhistadaya namah 


71. He grants the blessing (Abhista) of lordship (Sura) over the earth (Bhu). 


Worldly power and position can come easily by the influence of Jupiter. Jupiter repre- 
sents advisors. This name indicates that a person can rise to high position if well advised or 
fall from it if that advisor is lost. The advisor can be another person or the inner knowing. If we 
rely on our own knowing, then we should take care because a change in the planetary cycles 


can cause our clarity to fade. 


Many heads of state and government as well as many very wealthy people have 
consulted Jyotishis. In one large country, the ruling party had consistently consulted one 
famous Jyotishi. After many years in power, for whatever reason, they neglected to do so and 
choose an election date on which they were certain to lose. After the elections, one of their 
spokesmen put out that the new government would soon fall. As the time of installation indi- 


cated longevity, | warned him that the new government would last. It stood for 10 years. 


so aad A: 


om bhiriyaSase namah 


72. Exceedingly (Bhiri) famous (Yasha). 


A good councilor can be very famous. From his guidance (Jupiter 71), great fame can 
be acquired by others. The danger is that having attained a high position through good coun- 
sel, one starts to think that one’s status is all about one’s own competence. This then causes 
one to fail to respond when the tide turns against one. One may be given good advice but out 
of ego, one rejects it. The good advisors may be discarded. Sometimes the wise advisor is 
lost due to manipulation by enemies. If someone wants to usurp a ruler, first they have to cut 
the umbilical with the key advisor. This can be done by flattery and false rumours. The ego is 


everyone’s Achilles heel. 


Leaders get terribly attached to their position. In many cases the organs of the state 
are used to keep that one person in his job even as the population suffers under the increas- 
ing carelessness of the rule. Astrologically we can understand this. A person gets high status 
due to Raja (Royal) Yogas in their chart. These are activated at a particular time, peak and 
decline. This peak and decline occurs however clever the person is. How long the high status 
lasts depends on the nature of the Yoga and the height of the peak. It is not about their intelli- 
gence or courage, it is a product of some blessing acquired in the past as we see from these 
names. Like a gambler who has one big win early on and then gradually loses everything, it 
is easy for any successful person to get deluded. Those who retain greatness are those who 
cultivate noble qualities, keep the service of the people as their only interest and leave when 
the constitution requests or when their inner knowing or most trusted advisor indicates. For 


humanity to survive gracefully, every leader needs a genuinely wise Guru. 


so Walaa gary AH: 


om punyavivardhanaya namah 


73. Increasing (Vivardhana) merit (Punya). 


Punya is merit. One can imagine that every thought, word and deed produces an influ- 
ence that spreads out like light through the universe. When it strikes something, it bounces 
back. Hence, the effect of an act can keep coming back in smaller and larger ways over a very 
long time. This is the theory of karma. In the Bible, Jesus says, “do unto others as you would 
have them do unto you” (Sermon on the Mount, Luke 6:31 and Mathew 7:12). Even Physics 


tells us that for every action, there is an equal and opposite reaction (Newton’s Third Law). 


The positive influence we have created that is yet to return to us is Punya. One calls it positive 
because it can cause one to prosper and feel good. For example, if one is kind to others, then 
people will be kind to one. 


The ninth house and thus the fifth house (ninth from the ninth) in a Vedic chart show 
the extent of the Punya from the past. The past can mean one’s genetic inheritance or what is 
brought from one’s past lives. This gives us our luck in this life. Jupiter is said to be the Karaka 
or significator of both these houses. The previous house to the ninth, the eighth shows the 
lack of Punya or sin that one has brought to this life. It is also the house of the genitals, which 
is why so much fuss is made about sexuality. Sex and sin seem intertwined in the collective 
consciousness. The ninth is the house of establishment, religion and religious people. Thus, 
the source of their fall, the eighth, is generally secret liaisons. The eighth is also about other 
people’s money. That can also be a problem. 


Xo FSA AH: 


om dharmarupaya namah 


74. The very embodiment (Rupa) of living in accordance with truth (Dharma). 


Dharma is what sustains life. It is also wisdom and that which brings it to awareness. 
That is why the Vedic culture is said to be the eternal Dharma. Truth is what sustains every- 
thing in the long run. The ninth house is the principal house of Dharma. The ninth house of the 
zodiac is Sagittarius, Jupiter's strongest sign. That is why we expect our teachers and Gurus 
to embody very high values in their life. 


30 TAqTSATA AH: 


om dhanadhyaksaya namah 


75. Presiding over (Adhyaksa) wealth or abundance (Dhana). 


Jupiter presides over the very principle of abundance. Other planets give wealth by his 
blessing so before we assume that wealth will come by virtue of some other Grahas, we have 
to look at the disposition of Jupiter. It helps to check the extent of the kindness and generosity 
inherent in the chart, both of which are indicated by Jupiter. Without these, any wealth gained 
will come from good deeds of a past life. Once that is exhausted, the wealth will disappear. 


To win the lottery or get any great luck, one needs a lot of Punya. That means one 
has to have made a massive donation in a previous life, perhaps giving up one’s life to save 
others. That Punya is then there to help one when needed. If one does not win the lottery, the 
luck will come in other ways. On the other hand, if one has negative karma because of taking 


advantage of others, one will keep losing money through lotteries and the like until the debt 
is cleared. It would be better to donate the money to a charity. If the money is spent helping 


others, we will clear our karmic debts faster. 


30 UCT AU: 
om dhanadaya namah 


76. Giving (Da) wealth(Dhana). 


Dhana is what we hold dear and is a name of the second house in the Vedic chart. 
Some very wealthy people have Jupiter in the second but this alone does not guarantee 
wealth. Association with other planets will modify the effects. Also, Jupiter’s generosity can 
lead us to forgo those dear things for a higher cause. This is true wherever Jupiter falls as 
every house represents people or things that may be dear. One example is when Jupiter is 
in the 7 house of marriage. Most people think this is a favourable indicator and it certainly 
makes the person look for a good and wise partner. However, if such a person is found the 
chance may be passed up for some noble reason. Jupiter in the first house makes other 
people see us as a mentor and come to us for help. Then we keep giving to them often to the 
detriment of our own health and even survival. We naturally feel like a Guru on some level and 
we want to help but we should be aware of the whole situation. 


The ancient hymn of praise to the Divine Mother, the Lalita Sahasranama, says ‘Guru 
Murtih’ which means that She takes the form of the Guru. No little ego is ever the Guru, but 
anyone of us may be called upon to give something of wisdom and guidance by Her Grace. 
We may experience that others are better off if they follow our advice. However, it is good to 
be fully aware that this is just a gift given by God through us by Her sweet Will. It may not hap- 
pen in the future. Once we have lost our humility, that gift will certainly leave us. 


There was once a very great saint in North India, Swami Brahmananda Sarasvatt. He 
had unimaginable power thanks to the depth of his surrender. A man from the locality often 
came to pay his respects and was very devoted. He was one of the close group of friends 
who were regular devotees. Let us call him Rajiv. One day the Guru said to him, “See that man 
by the gate, he is sick, heal him”. Rajiv protested that he knew nothing of medicine. Thrice 
the Guru repeated his instruction and thrice he objected. Then the Guru advised him to take 
some ash from the fire and give it. This Rajiv did and miraculously the man was cured. Time 
passed and Rajiv stopped coming to the Ashrama. 


After a while, one of his friends, worried about this, went to find him. He found that 
Rajiv had become a famous doctor and had a big queue at his surgery. When he went in the 
doctor would not see him, indeed pretended not to know him at all. Rajiv behaved as if he 


was afraid his friend might ask him for money, now that he had become wealthy. The man was 
amazed and reported this to the Guru. “How has this happened?” he asked. “See the mist in 
the air in the early morning?” replied the Guru, “It fills the whole dome of the sky. One drop 
of that is like the amount of Divine Grace that has created this phenomenon (the success of 
Rajiv as a healer)”. From that moment, none of Rajiv’s cures worked and he was soon driven 
from the town by a mob of angry patients. One moral of this is that greed or miserliness can 


undermine any good fortune. Jupiter’s influence is the key for being generous. 


30 STATA AA: 


om dharmapalanaya namah 


77. Protecting nourishing and maintaining (Palana) Dharma. 


He is one who lives according to Dharma and works to help others live likewise. This is 


why Jupiter represents judges and all those who set the moral standards for society. 


From studying the time a constitution comes into effect or a new dynasty begins, we 
can see how upright its leaders will be. Primarily, we have to study the position of Jupiter. This 
also applies to companies and other projects. 


Xo Waaasacaaa AA: 


om sarvavedarthatattvajnaya namah 


78. Knowing (Jfia) the essence (Tattva) of the purpose (Artha) of all (Sarva) the Vedas. 


The Vedic Rishis are those who discerned the Veda, the primordial sounds of nature. 
The Maharishis (Great Rishis) know the essence of it like one who extracts the cream or butter 


from the milk. They have the capacity to teach so they are the Gurus. Jupiter represents them. 


For instance, the knowledge of Yoga was derived from the Veda by Maharishi Patafjali. 
It is not stated explicitly in the Veda but is contained within it ina concentrated form and so 
the Yoga Sutras were accepted as part of the Vedic literature. The same is true for the texts of 
Jyotisha and Ayurveda as well as Vastu or Sthapatya Veda, the science of architecture, and 


Gandharva Veda or the science of music. 


It is interesting that those with Jupiter in the fourth house in the Vedic chart are said to 
bring some new insights into the Vedic field. From the fourth, Jupiter aspects the tenth house 


or the area which shows what we are seen to do in the world. 


xo Tatarstan AH: 


om sarvapadvinivarakaya namah 


79. Removing or warding off (Vinivaraka) all defects and miseries (Sarva Apaa). 


This is the effect of the aspect and conjunction of Jupiter. It is why we feel soothed 
by meeting those who embody the energy of Jupiter. When Jupiter conjoins or disposits 
‘malefics’ like Mars, Saturn, Rahu and Ketu, it transfers some of its goodness to them. As a 


result, their cycles can then give many blessings while Jupiter’s cycles are not so smooth. 


0 GAUMMNAATS AA: 


om sarvapapaprasamanaya namah 


80. Quietening (Prashamana) all wilful tendencies (Sarva Papa). 


Papa is usually translated as sinful. The Papa houses in a birth chart are three, six, and 
eleven. Three and eleven are about willfulness, the third being the place of our desire and 
will and the eleventh, what we seek in the hope of fulfilment. The sixth is the place of mental 
vices. The word Prashamana suggests a calming. If a person is felt to be too selfish then we 
can encourage them to relax inside themselves. This will reduce their stress level and this, in 
itself, will help them achieve their goals. 


In the Yoga Sitras (2.35) it says that all violent tendencies cease in the presence of 
one who has no violence inside them and is thus established in the self: ‘ahimsapratisthayam 
tatsannidhau vairatyagah’. Ahimsa means that there is no roughness in the internal processes, 
which really means that there is no tightness in the heart. If we feel our heart is closed, let 


us pray for help. Sooner or later our prayer will be answered. This act itself softens and opens. 


30 THAT PTAA AA: 


om svamatanugatamaraya namah 


81. The divine powers (Amara) are following (Anugata) his guidance, his principles of life (Sva 
Mata). 


Amara means deathless and refers to the universal laws of nature. They follow what he 
thinks fit. Sva points to the real director of natural law, the Self. This is said of Jupiter because 
he has identified with That through his Self-realization. The Cosmic Will directs everything. 


Particular beings act as the agents. 


Xo AAC AH: 


om rgvedaparagaya namah 


82. Going beyond (Paraga) the highest exposition of worldly knowledge. 


One meaning is that he is the master of the Rig Veda or the highest knowledge of 


natural and spiritual law. 


The name can also be taken as speaking of a knowledge that exceeds even the Veda 
or takes us beyond that (Vedanta), so nothing of this world is left in our awareness when 
washed with that Grace. In that state, there is no bondage. The greatest house of bondage, 
astrologically, is the twelfth. This equates with Pisces and is therefore controlled by Jupiter, 
which rules Pisces. That is why he can bring bondage to an end. However, Jupiter can also 


give worldly success, which multiplies bondage. It depends what we seek from him. 


Xo esa anad AA: 


om rksarasimargapracaravate namah 


83. Ranging through (Pracaravan) the pathway (Marga) of the signs (RaSis) and the Nakshatras 
(rksa), the stars of the zodiac. 


This name in various forms appears for every Graha. It is worth noting that both the 
signs and constellations are specifically mentioned. Jupiter spends about one year in each 
sign and 40 days in each Nakshatra Pada (quarter) or Navamsha. Religious practices are 
typically maintained for either a year or 40 days. The Nakshatras are said to be more related 
to the mind and are lorded by the Moon. The Navamshas themselves are connected to the 
soul. The signs (Rashis) are more related to the physical and are lorded by the Sun. From this 
we can infer that the 40 day practices will help us psychologically and even on a soul level but 
to change the outer manifestation of our life, the practice needs to be maintained for at least 


a year. Both are important and it depends on the actual circumstances. 


30 UeMraly AA: 
om sadanandaya namah 
84. Ever blissful (Sada Ananda). 


Despite moving through all the different places, some favourable and some not, he is 
always blissful. If we are not always blissful, we have not attained to the state described here. 


Bliss and happiness are not the same. It is actually possible to experience sadness as blissful. 


These last two names make it clear that happiness is not at all to do with being ‘in the 


right place or time’. That is, at best, the source of a moment of pleasure followed quickly by 
its loss. Astrologers are often asked about right place and time and they can help us enjoy our 


full potential but, at the end of the day, that is transient and cannot give rise to bliss. 


It is worth setting one’s sights on that eternal bliss which is one’s own nature. The 
secret is in relaxing fully and that cannot happen as long as one is concerned about time and 
place. For practical matters, however, time and place are very important. All the scriptures ad- 
vise to ‘Get in the company of the wise’ and follow a good routine. It also helps to understand 
the planetary influences so one is not confused by the changes one faces. In time, all con- 


cerns will fade away by themselves. 


30 TITAS A: 
om satyasanghaya namah 
85. Associated (Sangha) with truth (Satya). 


If we are to progress spiritually and morally, the greatest aid is association with Truth. 
We do that by meditation, prayer and by associating with those who have an equal or greater 
embodiment of that Pure Awareness than us. This is called Satsangha. Other than resting in 
the state of Pure Consciousness, the best form is being in the presence of the enlightened. 


It is important to avoid people who are dishonest, cruel, or have destructive habits. A 
person with any addiction should avoid others with that weakness unless one has taken a 
mentoring role for helping them and they want to be helped. 


30 MAAS COAT AA: 
om satyasankalpamanasaya namah 
86. Having a mind (Manasa) whose intentions (Sankaipa) are truthful (Satya). 


These are the people we want to associate with because their good qualities will en- 


courage ours. 


30 FATA AA: 


om sarvagamajnhaya namah 


87. Knowing (JAa) all (Sarva) the sacred texts and sciences (Agama). 


In the great epic Ramayana, it is said that the demon Ravana had mastered all the sa- 


cred arts and sciences. However, he had not acquired total knowledge because his demonic 


nature prevented him from attaining the Vedantic knowledge, the knowledge of the Self. To 
acquire that he would have had to give up all egotism. 


It is said that he realized this and wondered how he could overcome this difficulty. 
Finally he thought that if God struck him in the heart with an arrow, he would get the final 
liberation that his incarnation prevented. But God, he thought, is all merciful, so how could 
he be so enraged? Then he struck upon the idea of stealing God’s wife. Even after he stole 
Sita, Lord Rama’s wife, the Lord repeatedly offered to forgive him if he returned her. Naturally 
he refused. From one view, it was because of his pride but the ‘secret’ version of the story is 
that he fully wished to be killed by Rama. People are not demons but our selfishness is our 
obstacle. One can pray for true devotion and one may also receive Grace. Prayers do not go 


unanswered if one shows enough persistence. 


x0 Way AA: 


om sarvajhaya namah 


88. All-knowing (Sarva Jfa). 


This name gives rise to that state of all knowingness if there is no concern about having 
it. This is the ultimate Koan or Zen riddle. This name, following the last (Jupiter 87), takes our 
attention from knowing everything to being all-knowingness itself. 


Xo Haaerealae AH: 


om sarvavedantavide namah 


89. Having the complete knowledge (Sarva Vid) of Vedanta. 


Vedanta is literally the end of the Veda. It is the final destination of all streams of 
knowledge. As such it is not a subject, it has no information about anything, it is truth itself. 
The texts of Vedanta just hint at the Truth because it cannot be described directly. One can 
know It by being It and in no other way. 


so Seas AH: 
om brahmaputraya namah 
90. The son (Putra) of Brahma. 


Brahma is the one, self-existent Spirit and Brahma is the creator himself and he mani- 
fests the knowledge. These are different grammatical forms of the same word. Out of Brahma, 


Brahma arose. From the One, taking the forms of Shiva and Shakti, the Veda expresses as the 
whole universe through the agency of Brahma. 


A similar concept is found in the Bible and the Torah. Jupiter represents the exposition 
of knowledge and is thus born of the mind of Brahma at the beginning of creation. The prin- 
ciple of the Guru is born out of truth and not from any womb. That is why the personification 
of truth is scarcely to be considered as an ordinary human being. In so far as they are living 
what is true in all of us, they are the sons of Brahma or Brahman, the great totality of the man- 
ifest and unmanifest. 


30 STATA A: 


om brahmanesaya namah 


91. The lord (/sha) of the knowers of Brahman. 


A Brahmana is not a member of a particular Hindu caste but one who has completely 
identified with the supreme wholeness. Even amongst the Brahmanas, Jupiter is the gover- 
nor. He represents complete knowledge and that knowledge itself is the lord of the knowers of 
Brahman. It certainly does not refer to any one ego. The one who breathed out the Veda and 
created the whole universe is said to be ‘Nirmame’, meaning “devoid of the sense of ‘me’ and 


‘mine’” (Shiva Mahapurana, Rudra Samhita ll). 


A strong Jupiter can make someone the best of the Brahmins. One who follows the 
professions of Jupiter is a Brahmin by their work. If they are the knower of the Self, then only 
they become a Brahmana. They are the ones to be given gifts and devout respect. No one can 
exactly Know another’s inner state but these names of Jupiter give many insights into how 
that state can be understood. 


xo Seagate AA: 


om brahmavidyavisaradaya namah 


92. Expert (ViSarada) in the knowledge (Vidya) of Brahman. 


What is the knowledge of Brahman in this context? It is the ability to convey that 
state to others. There is something called Shaktipata. It means conveying energy. The great 
masters convey Supreme Wholeness by their being. We may experience it noticing how they 
sit, the slightest movement of the body or hair, or hearing their words. Even by merely remem- 
bering them, we attain that state if we are ready for it. That is real Shaktipata. 


30 CAAT AAT AA: 


om samanadhikanirmuktaya namah 


93. Beyond the consideration of (Nirmukta) greater (SA@mana) or lesser (Adhika), being indiffer- 


ent to wealth and material gain. 


This is the result of the eternal contentment or correlated with the natural condition 
of contentment referred to in the last name. It also means one possessed of uncommon 
capacity for conciliation. Both these meanings are excellent. Naturally, to the wise, everyone 
and everything are the same Divine Being incarnate. If any preference is shown it is the con- 
sequence of the karma of the body and can be seen through the chart. For example, if your 
Jupiter falls on the Moon of a Guru, you may feel connected to him or her if you meet. He or 
she may be disposed towards you. In any case, the more devoted you are the greater the re- 


sponse though this is entirely unfathomable. 


30 WacHaswtac; AA: 
om sarvalokavaSamvadaya namah 


94. Expressing (Vada) the wish (Vasha) of all the worlds (Sarva Loka). 


He acts as our representative in the Cosmic court. His expressions support whatever 
way we want to prosper. This means that whatever Jupiter is associated with in the Vedic 
chart will prosper. If he is in the first house of fame, our fame will grow. If he aspects out 
seventh house of marriage, that will also prove auspicious. If he looks at our tenth house of 
career, that will increase. Other Grahas may cause some disturbances but even these will be 


reduced. 


The use of the word Vada, speaking, makes it clear that it is not only the astrological 
influence that helps. His knowledge, starting from the Vedic mantras, can help us achieve our 
goals. The beneficial influence of Jupiter in the chart can be greatly enhanced through the use 
of mantras, rituals, generosity, sharing of knowledge and the study of the wisdom texts that 


we have access to. Indeed, any expression that uplifts life can help us. 


Another interpretation of this name is that his words are followed by all the worlds. 
Loka can have many interpretations. One is the different spheres of our life. Whatever the 
sphere, there is a natural inclination to follow the advice given by a person with a strong 
Jupiter. Other planets may get their way by seduction, threatening or other means but those 
who embody Jupiter inspire a confidence in others that causes them to follow what they are 


advised because they feel it is true or right. 


30 CHUA yaarecas AA: 
om sasurasuragandharvavanditaya namah 


95. Worshipped (Vandita) by the gods (Sura), demons (Asura) and the Gandharvas together 
(Sa). 


The Gandharvas are a semi-divine race of celestial singers, the Vedic angels. The use 
of the word together suggests that those who are often in conflict, who represent the most 
diverse tendencies in nature are brought into harmony by the wisdom and holiness that 
Jupiter represents. On some level, everyone and everything respond to a simple, unselfish 
expression of truth from a pure heart. We see this in the lives of the great saints. People of all 
religions come to see them and follow their guidance. All the pettiness and conflicts between 


various sects evaporate in the Divine presence. 


30 AAAI AA: 
om satyabhasanaya namah 


96. Speaking (Bhasana) truth (Satya). 


Whatever is uttered by one who is eternally content is true. This is not because it is 
literally factual but because it touches what is true in the listener. 


30 SECU AA: 


om brhaspataye namah 


97. The lord (Pati) of the great and the endlessly expanding (Brhas). 


Brhaspati is one of the most common names for Jupiter. He is the Guru of the gods 
who became the planet Jupiter (see Jupiter 13). This name, perhaps more than any other, 
expresses the expansion of consciousness to identify with the Cosmic Being. The sound Br 
has an expansive vibration. Meditating on this mantra is quite wonderful. We just need to 
study the proper pronunciation of r. It is neither ‘ri’ nor ‘ru’. It is closer to ‘ry’ in jewelry. If one 
gets it right, then the effect of the mantra increases tremendously. It is much better to work on 
this, pronouncing slowly, than rush into counting a certain number of repetitions. It is like the 


name ‘krsna’. Both are quite difficult to pronounce correctly. 


So Ura AH: 


om suracaryaya namah 


98. Teacher (Acharya) of the gods (Sura). 


He educates even the highest powers of nature. This must be why, when a pure heart 
entertains a desire, the natural laws provide its fulfilment. To some extent, this works for all of 


us but the greater the purity, the faster and more profound the response. 


There is a business of ‘get what you want’ seminars that preach taking advantage of 
this. They often say ‘Make lists of what you want and focus on it’. It is a basic truth that 
whatever you focus on will begin to manifest. These seminars even take ideas from the Yoga 
Sutras: ‘focus on the item and then relax’. This also works because the universe is designed 
like that. However, the pure heart does not entertain selfish desires and therefore does not 


commit any mistakes or disturb the nature. 


There is an amusing and educative story about two young men who met a man who 
could cause any object they wanted to manifest. However, that object had to come from 
wherever it was. He summoned a tray of food from a London hotel. This duly appeared in the 
field in India. One of the young men worked at a shop selling sewing machines. They thought 
they would test the ‘haji’ and his mantra by summoning a sewing machine. It worked but the 
machine’s absence was discovered before it could be returned and the poor employee was 
found with the machine and arrested. The police did not believe his story!? Without invoking 
magic, there are many occasions where one person gains by other people’s unwilling loss. 
Copyright violation is one small example. 


This name is repeated (Jupiter 33) indicating some additional meaning. In life there are 


both spiritual and worldly teachers. The repetition suggests he plays both roles. 


30 @alad AA: 


om dayavate namah 


99. Compassionate (Dayavan). 


The awareness of Pure Truth makes the heart full of compassion. This helps us distin- 


guish truth from information that tends to harden the heart. 


30 BAA TA: 


om subhalaksanaya namah 


100. Indicating an auspicious (Shubha) omen or sign (Laksana). 


if Jupiter is prominent when an astrologer is asked a question, it indicates a harmo- 
nious result. When Jupiter is strong and influential in a chart and especially during a related 
planetary cycle, a person exhibits signs of good fortune and they themselves become a good 


omen for others. Many may gather around them. 


Xo HHA AA: 


om lokatrayagurave namah 


101. The teacher (Guru) of the three (Traya) worlds (Loka). 


The three worlds are the earthly plane, the heavens and the intermediate region. Or one 
could say that there is the Earth, the higher realms and the lower ones. In any case, this is the 
way the Vedic literature refers to the universe as a whole with all its levels, subtle, ordinary and 
gross. This also describes the levels of human existence, the soul or Self, the mind and feel- 


ings, and the body. 


xo Ad AH: 


om srimate namah 


102. Possessed of all auspiciousness (Shriman). 


30 Geared AH: 


om sarvagaya namah 


103. All pervading, omnipresent (Sarvaga). 


The supreme knowledge is the same and it is present everywhere at the origin of 
creation and pervading everything. The awareness that has completely identified with truth, 
is no longer localized and for the great saints, even the body can be found in many places. 
| love a certain story of Papaji, a leading disciple of Ramana Maharishi and a popular saint. 
Unfortunately, he is no longer with us in body. He was a manager of a company as he never 
accepted money from his disciples and had a family to support. However, he had a consider- 
able following. A day was approaching when it is the custom in that area to honour the Guru. 
Some man approached him and invited him to his house for lunch on that day. He accepted. 
Then another man made the same request and he felt uncomfortable to refuse so he indicated 
he would come. Then a third request came. Finding an impossible situation, he was delighted 


when his company called him away to another place on that day. 


When he returned the next day he met the first man. “Guruji”, he said, “We are so 
grateful that you graced us by your presence yesterday.” The same appreciation came from 
both the other families. As another saint, Swami Brahmananda Sarasvatt, said about such ex- 


periences, “It is the department of the Almighty, he takes care of it.” 


30 Gal fava AH: 


om sarvato vibhave namah 


104. Supreme in every direction (Sarvato). 


Vibhu also means the ether or space spread everywhere. Jupiter alone in the chart 
represents the element (Tattva) of space — Akasa. This and the last name (Jupiter 103) indi- 
cate that. Space supports sound, so Jupiter rules over hearing and speaking even though 
Mercury rules the intellectual ability to understand what is said. Jupiter rules over memory, 
which correlates with the scientific theory that memory is stored spatially by a pattern of 
neuronal connections. This kind of storage has been demonstrated in neural network com- 


puter simulations. 


xo TAMA AA: 
om sarvesaya namah 


105. The lord of all (Sarva {sha). 


One can only rule where one’s influence can travel. Only the omnipresent can be lord 


of all. 


Xo TACIT AA: 
om sarvadatustaya namah 


106. Always (Sarvada) satisfied (Tusta). 


The ancient texts tell us that a Jyotishi, or Vedic Astrologer, is by nature content. When 
we, as students of Jyotisha, read charts we must gently leave aside all personal opinions 
which means all judgments. However much we think or feel something is right or wrong, that 
issue takes us out of a place of eternal contentment. Jupiter gives us the tendency to be con- 


tent with whatever we have and whatever we see. 


An astrologer knows that the increasing or decreasing of anything is quite predictable 


from the planetary cycles (Dashas), the transits and the birth chart. What comes today is gone 


tomorrow so why struggle over it? When a tendency to create or work to acquire anything 
arises, that is what we do. When the cycle changes and those who have come leave and that 
which we have acquired departs, the same gratitude arises in the satisfied heart. It is in the 
flow of nature that the bliss is stirred by any movement. The only place of eternal contentment 
is living in that flow, which finds sweetness in every impulse, even the destruction of the body. 
It is not touched by death because it is eternal. 


30 MACY AH: 
om sarvadaya namah 
107. Giving (Da) everything (Sarva). 


Jupiter can give any benefit. As it says in the Yoga Sutras (2.37), all jewels present 
themselves to the one established in the Self. That state cannot exhaust its treasury even 
though the gross body is always limited. 


30 TAUSTAT AH: 
om sarvapujitaya namah 
108. Worshipped (Pdjita) by everyone and everything (Sarva). 


Every particle in the universe is attracted towards that Supreme Wholeness. The many 
that emerge from the One, seek to merge again with That. These are the two flows within na- 
ture, from the One to the many and back again and they coexist endlessly. 


Om tat sat 


OO NnN DO Ak WN + 


wWOWwWwWwWowwWNhtNnNNNMNMNMNMN NN | =F SF SF SF SF SF Ss ss 
OP WM +H OF A WAN DA RPWBNH HH AO AWAN DA KkWBNM =| CO 


THE MANTRAS OF BRHASPATI IN IT RANSLITERATION 


.om gurave namah 

. om gunakaraya namah 

. om goptre namah 

. om gocaraya namah 

. om gopatipriyaya namah 
.om gunine namah 

. om gunavatam Sresthaya namah 
. om gurinam gurave namah 
.om avyayaya namah 

. om jetre namah 

. om jayantaya namah 

. om jayadaya namah 

. om jivaya namah 

.om anantaya namah 

. om jayavahaya namah 

.om angirasaya namah 

. om adhvarasaktaya namah 
.om viviktaya namah 

. om adhvarakrtaparaya namah 
. om vacaspataye namah 
.om vasine namah 

. om vasyaya namah 

. om varisthaya namah 

. om vagvicaksanaya namah 
. om cittaSuddhikaraya namah 
.om Srimate namah 

.om caitraya namah 

. om citrasikhandijaya namah 
. om brhadrathaya namah 
.om brhadbhanave namah 

. om brhaspataye namah 
.om abhistadaya namah 
.om suracaryaya namah 
.om suraradhyaya namah 


. om surakaryakrtodyamaya namah 


36. 
37. 
38. 
39. 
40. 
41. 
42. 
43. 
44. 
45. 
46. 
47. 
48. 
49. 
50. 
51. 
52. 
53. 
54. 
55. 
56. 
57. 
58. 
59. 
60. 
61. 
62. 
63. 
64. 
65. 
66. 
67. 
68. 
69. 
70. 
71. 
72. 
73. 


om girvanaposakaya namah 

om dhanyaya namah 

om gispataye namah 

om girisA4ya namah 

om anaghaya namah 

om dhivaraya namah 

om dhisanaya namah 

om divyabhisanaya namah 

om devapijitaya namah 

om dhanurdharaya namah 

om daityahantre namah 

om dayasaraya namah 

om dayakaraya namah 

om daridryanasanaya namah 

om dhanyaya namah 

om daksinayanasambhavaya namah 
om dhanurminadhipaya namah 

om devaya namah 

om dhanurbanadharaya namah 

om haraye namah 

om angirovarsasanjataya namah 
om angirah kulasambhavaya namah 
om sindhudesadhipaya namah 

om dhimate namah 

om svarnakayaya namah 

om caturbhujaya namah 

om hemangadaya namah 

om hemavapuse namah 

om hemabhtsanabhusitaya namah 
om pusyanathaya namah 


om pusyaragamanimandanamanditaya namah 


om kaSapuspasamanabhaya namah 
om indradyamarasanghapaya namah 


om asamanabalaya namah 


om sattvagunasampadvibhavasave namah 


om bhusurabhistadaya namah 
om bhiriyaSase namah 


om punyavivardhanaya namah 


74. 
75. 
76. 
77. 
78. 
79. 
80. 
81. 
82. 
83. 
84. 
85. 
86. 
87. 
88. 
89. 
90. 
91. 
92. 
93. 
94. 
95. 
96. 
97. 
98. 
99. 
100. 
101. 
102. 
103. 
104. 
105. 
106. 
107. 
108. 


om dharmarupaya namah 

om dhanadhyaksaya namah 

om dhanadaya namah 

om dharmapalanaya namah 

om sarvavedarthatattvajnaya namah 
om sarvapadvinivarakaya namah 
om sarvapapaprasamanaya namah 
om svamatanugatamaraya namah 
om rgvedaparagaya namah 

om rksarasimargapracaravate namah 
om sadanandaya namah 

om satyasanghaya namah 

om satyasankalpamanasaya namah 
om sarvagamajnhaya namah 

om sarvajhaya namah 

om sarvavedantavide namah 

om brahmaputraya namah 

om brahmanesaya namah 

om brahmavidyavisaradaya namah 
om samanadhikanirbhuktaya namah 
om sarvalokavasamvadaya namah 
om sasurasuragandharvavanditaya namah 
om satyabhasanaya namah 

om brhaspataye namah 

om suracaryaya namah 

om dayavate namah 

om Subhalaksanaya namah 

om lokatrayagurave namah 

om Srimate namah 

om sarvagaya namah 

om sarvato vibhave namah 

om sarvesaya namah 

om sarvadatustaya namah 

om sarvadaya namah 


om sarvapujitaya namah 


SOURCES AND ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS 


While these lists are well Known to traditional astrologers in India, | only found two 
places where they had been printed. | am thus indebted to Dr Mrs Saraswathy and Prof. B. A. 
Eeswaran for publishing a Sanskrit text of the names of the Grahas in their book 
NavaGrahas, albeit without translation and source, and Prof. S.K. Ramachandra Rao for his 
outstanding compendium The NavaGraha Kosha, which includes another set. Prof. Rao 
informed me that his work was based on a medieval text. Regretfully Prof. Rao has passed 
away. These two sources have some differences. Where | felt that both versions of a name 
had merit, | included both under the same number. 


| am most grateful to Pandit UmaShankar Jois, priest of the Mukambika temple, Kollur, 
Karnataka, India, for his help in the early stages of this work. Regretfully, he has now passed 
away. Many other pundits gave me their learned opinion on particular names and | thank them 
all. My Jyotish Guru, Pandit Sanjay Rath, has been a great inspiration. 


Two great artists have kindly allowed me to showcase their beautiful work. Pieter 
Weltevrede, acclaimed Dutch master painter, did all the colour work. The drawings were 
done by the highly talented Jane Adams. Find out more about them in the Section ‘The 
Artists’. 


Many people helped me with editing and proofreading and | thank them all. Especially, 
| want to thank my wife Susie for her considerable assistance and all my family for their love 
and support. 


ABOUT THE AUTHOR 


Andrew Foss has a PhD in Computing Science from the University of Alberta and is 
also an Oxford University Physics graduate with publications in Nature and other leading sci- 
entific journals. He is the author of the book High-Dimensional Data Mining. He enjoys a deep 
love of music, art and poetry and has more than 30 years experience studying and teaching 
the Vedic wisdom around the world. He is the Founding President of the British Association of 
Vedic Astrology, Editor of the BAVA Journal Gochara and is a Certified Jaimini Scholar and 
Jyotish Pandit, the highest professional certifications in Vedic Astrology involving nine years 
of continuous study. He has developed the unique, easy and powerful software Shri Jyoti 
Star that has become the first choice amongst the leading Vedic Astrologers around the 
world. Andrew is married and lives with his family in Virginia, USA. 


SECRETS OF VIMSHOTTARI DASHA 


As a bonus | have decided to publish some unique secrets about Vedic Astrology in 
the printed version of this book, which will also have the mantras of all nine planets. Please 
visit YogaOfThePlanets.com for more information. 


For 33 years, |, like everyone else who studies Jyotisha, wondered about the origin of 
the lengths of the Vimshottari Dashas. | could never find a way into this mystery. Nowhere in 
the literature, ancient or modern, can even a satisfactory hint be found. Then, on July 7, 2015, 
| saw on the web at least a partial derivation of the sequence of lords. It relied on knowing the 
Dasha cycle lengths. At the end, the author appealed for someone to find a solution to the 
problem of deriving the length of the cycles. The thought came, ‘let’s give it a shot’. 


| pulled out a fresh sheet of paper and started writing down equations that might help. 
Bit by bit the key principles unfolded themselves. It did not take long to realize that | had an 
answer and it just required some polishing. In the process, some wonderful insights 
appeared as well as a profound advance in the understanding of the Tara Bala, which is most 
important for interpreting the Dasha. | have not found this written anywhere. Therefore, both 
these re-markable and interesting secrets were given to me and | am sharing them with you. 


Notes 


Yoga Philosophy of Patafijali. Trans. PN. Mukerji, Univ. Of Calcutta, 1977. 


Each Nakshatra or lunar mansion has a planetary ruler used in astrological calculations as well as a Vedic deity. 


The Atmakaraka is the soul planet. It is the Graha that has advanced furthest in its zodiacal sign. Rahu is 
naturally retrograde, so it is an exception being measured from the end of the sign. Ketu is not considered as it 
represents the freedom of the soul, not its embodiment. 


Mahabharata. Bhishma Parva, 43v60. This line was first spoken by Rishi VedaVyasa (see Shalva Parva, 62v32). 


The Whole Thing, the Reali Thing. Rameswar Tiwari, 1977. 


Living with Himalayan Masters, Swami Rama. 


