THE YOGA OF THE PLANETS 


BUDHA 


MERCURY, 


ANDREW Foss, PHO 


TaBLe OF Conrents 


Dedication 


How this Book will Help You 

Find your Personal Mantras 

The Journey 

Notes on Pronounciation from the Transliteration 
Hymn in Honour of the Planets 

Mercury, Budha 


The Mantras of Budha in Transliteration 
Secrets of Vimshottari Dasha 

Sources and Acknowledgements 

The Artists 


About the Author 


HOW THIS BOOK WILL HELP YOU 


This book has many uses. In itself, it is a meditation. There is no need to know 
anything about Vedic Astrology to enjoy and benefit. There are insights into astrology but the 
main focus is enlightening the consciousness and providing a rebalancing of the energies 
represented by the planets. This will happen automatically as one reads the mantras and their 


commentaries. 


There are 108 mantras for each planet used in Vedic Astrology. Each mantra is a 
descriptive name converted to a salutation and used for meditation or chanting. For example 
‘om Santaya namah’ means ‘salutations to the peaceful one’ and is based on the name santa 
(shaanta) which means peaceful. Reciting the mantra develops understanding for the quality 
embodied in the name and can help mental clarity and spiritual development. In the transla- 
tion, the first mantra of each planet is fully translated. After that, just the names are translated 


leaving ‘Salutations to’ understood. 


The Vedic planets are normally listed in the order of the days of the week. They are 
the Sun, the Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus and Saturn plus the two eclipse points. 
These are the Lunar nodes called Rahu (the North node) and Ketu (the South node). The Vedic 
‘planets’ are often referred to as ‘Grahas’, the Sanskrit word which means ‘graspers’, as they 
appear to guide and control our experiences. 


For the first time, these mantras are listed with translation and commentary. Even if you 
only read the commentaries, you will get some of the benefit. If the planet is weak or afflicted 


in your life, then this acts as a remedy. If it is already strong, this helps to enliven its full value. 


A common way of using these mantras is to recite the set of 108 for the planet one 
chooses’. For example, one could recite the mantras of the Sun on Sunday mornings. The 
next chapter, Find your Personal Mantras, will explain how to go beyond this and find out 


which of the mantras will especially enliven your personal chart. 


The mantras of the more malefic planets, such as Mars, Saturn, Rahu and Ketu, natu- 
rally contain some names, which describe the more challenging side of the Graha. These help 
us to understand certain behaviours and this can be remedial. For these names, it may be 
better to contemplate the deeper meanings rather than simply repeating them. For example, 
Rahu is said to be cruel. This association with cruelty arises out of fear. Fear is deeply seated 


in survival issues. 


Contemplating the mantra may help one get in touch with the source of the problem, 
so it can be alleviated. Loving an injured heart can be the basis of real change. This applies to 


our self or another. | do not recommend using the more challenging names as regular practice 


mantras and | certainly do not recommend you ask another person to do them even if they 
come up when you do the calculations described in the next chapter. On the other hand, | 
have found listening to the sets of 108 names has been beneficial for my clients. 


If chanting one or a set of mantras, | suggest you start with 
om gam ganapataye namah 
to invoke the pure state of mind and end with 
om Santih Santin Santih 
meaning ‘Om peace, peace, peace’. 


For convenience, | am publishing the mantras of the nine planets of Vedic Astrology in 
nine separate eBooks. Put together, the length was too great but | am combining them all in 
the printed version. To find the eBook for another planet, visit YogaOfThePlanets.com. There 
you can also find information on the audio of the recitation of the mantras. | have on occasion 
given these to clients to listen to when that planet was afflicted in their chart with very posi- 
tive results. 


FIND YOUR PERSONAL MANTRAS 


A great secret being released with this book is how to find the best mantras for you 
from the list of 108. This secret has been closely kept by a few Indian Astrologers and | am in- 
debted to my teacher, Pandit Sanjay Rath, for enlightening me about this. 


It is very simple. The reason why there are 108 mantras for the planets as well as such 
lists for the deities is because the zodiac is naturally divided into 108 segments. 108 is said 
to be the number of Shree, the Goddess of prosperity. Astrologically, it is our whole world. 
For example, the name of a new born child is often given based on the Moon’s place in these 
divisions. 


It is not only the Moon that is important. The Sun is very important and all the other 
planets of Vedic Astrology can be key. It all depends on our chart. Whatever the chart, doing 
the mantra for the position of a planet can be very beneficial. It will resonate with us and thus 
has extra energy. 


There are a number of approaches for finding a powerful mantra for you or for a client, 
student or friend. The first | describe requires no astrology and the others are connected to 
the actual positions of the planets. For those with an interest in Vedic Astrology, this can be- 
come quite detailed as we drill down on the relationship between different planets. Therefore, 
a chapter on advanced applications is to be found in the printed version of the book. Here we 
give the easy astrological applications. 


However you arrive at a mantra, please pay attention to the caveat mentioned in the 
previous section. 


Method One, the Random Number 


Picking a random number may sound an unlikely idea but it is something that many 
prognostic systems employ, including the Vedic Astrology method of answering questions. 
This technique often gives clear insights. If you are calm and quietly focused, then nature 
talks to you and one way of facilitating this is picking a number. There are really two situations, 
finding a number for oneself and finding one for another. For example, if you are a Yoga 
teacher whose student wants a mantra or someone sharing with a friend. 


Suppose you want a random number for yourself and do not want to imagine a number 
out of 108. You can get three single digit numbers by picking numbers you see. One way is to 
open a book and take the final digit of the page number and do this three times. For example, 
suppose you open a book at random three times and get pages 21, 143 and 79. Pick the final 
digits which would be 1, 3 and 9. Write down these digits to form a number 139 and adjust 


to the desired range by subtracting 108. In this example, 139 — 108 = 31. Of course, you can 
come up with many alternate ways of getting a number. 


My astrological software Shri Jyoti Stare gives a random number. In the Data Entry 
screen, click ‘Enter Number’. If you are asked about ‘Replacing the current chart...’ click Yes 
or No. In the next screen, make sure the Range is set to 108 and you will see a random num- 
ber is given to you. 


If there is another person involved, one can ask them for a number. This often works. 
What we want is a number between 1 and 108. If the person gives us a number larger than 
108, we can keep subtracting 108 until we get a number in the desired range. For example, if 
they say 250, then subtracting 108 twice (216) gives 34. However, we may feel that the person 
is interpreting our answer to mean a single digit number only or perhaps knows the system 
we are using too well and may be biased towards certain numbers. Then we can ask for three 
single digit numbers as in the method described just above but we can write them down in re- 
verse order. This is just a suggestion, in reality we can use any scheme that we like. 


A separate app for this book is planned, which will do both random number and astro- 
logical calculations (information will be posted on YogaOfThePlanets.com). 


Method Two, Using the Astrological Chart 


The following is how to find the number for your natal Moon (or any planet). First, find 
out the sidereal position from any software, for example Shri Jyoti Star. In the current version 
7, it will also give you the mantra number next to the planet glyphs in charts. The planned app 
for this book will also give the number (see YogaOfThePlanets.com) but it is easy to do it by 
hand if one has the planet position. Examples are given below. 


In the table following, look up the planet position and find the number. Note, the table 
is at the end of this section and it is quite narrow to facilitate reading on narrow screens. If you 
still cannot see the whole width of the table, rotate your device to Landscape or pinch in until 
you can see the whole table. 


For example, suppose the planet is at Virgo 5 degrees. 5° is between 3°20’ and 6°40' 
so look in the second column of numbers under 6°40’ in the row for Virgo. You will find the 
number 47. Then look in the book for the mantra numbered 47. In the main text, the number 
is given at the start of the commentary, after the mantra. In the lists at the end, the mantra fol- 
lows the number. For the Moon, the mantra for 47 is ‘om muktidaya namah’. 


This is the simplest application of the rule where the number is counted from the start 
of the zodiac. This can be called ‘God’s view’ as the beginning of the zodiac is the beginning 
of the chart from the point of view of the Creator. Thus, it is very powerful. However, there 
are other views. There is the count from the Moon, which gives the social or personal view. 


There is the count from the Sun, which is like the view from our soul. Another important 
count is from the Ascendant, which relates to the body and health. Reciting the mantra we 
get from this count may help our health but if we feel sick we should always consult a medi- 
cal professional. 


We can make a count from any of the planets as the starting point. In Jyotisna (Vedic 
Astrology) there are systems of planetary cycles (periods), especially the famous Vimshottari 
Dasha system. All Vedic Astrology software like Shri Jyoti Star give these cycles too. Even 
some Western Astrology software or online software give them. For example, you might be 
running a Venus Moon cycle and subcycle. That means you are in the major cycle of Venus 
and the minor cycle of the Moon (called a Bhukti). In this example, one can count from Venus 
to the Moon and use the mantra from the Moon list. 


For example, let us find the mantra for the Moon from the perspective of the Sun. Let 
us suppose the Sun is at 8°10’ Leo and the Moon is at 4°30’ Sagittarius. First find the number 
for the Sun from the table as we did above, which is 39, and then the number for the Moon 
from the table which is 74, as 4°30’ is greater than 3°20’ and less than 6°40’. Now subtract 39 
from 74 and add 1, which gives you 36. Then find mantra 36 in the mantra list for the Moon. 
We add 1 because if both planets have the same number, the answer has to be 1, there is no 
mantra for zero. If the subtraction gives a negative value, just add 108 to the result. 


Now you know how to find key mantras for your chart in general and for your Dasha cy- 
cles. | recommend you start with ‘God’s view’ as this can be considered the most important. 


(The table is on the next page) 


Degrees up to 


Sign 3° 6° 40% “1380 “46? <20% 93% BE --30° 
20’ 40’ 20’ = 40’ 20’ = 40’ 

Aries 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 

Taurus 10. ~=«11 12 13 14 15 16 #17 ~ 18 

Gemini 19 20 21 22 23 24 2 26 27 


Cancer 28 29 30 ~~ 31 32 33 34 35 36 


Leo 37 38 39 40 = 41 42 43 44 45 
Virgo 46 47 48 49 50 51 52 5354 
Libra 55 56 «57 58 59 #60 61 62 63 


Scorpio 64 65 66 67 68 69 70 71 72 
Sagittarius 73 74 15 7 77 78 79 ~=©680-~—St—s«éO83211 
Capricorn 82 83 84 85 86 87 88 89 90 
Aquarius 91 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 
Pisces 100 101 102 103 104 105 106 107 108 


THe AsTROLOGICAL Houses 


In various places in this book you will find reference to houses or places from some 
important personal marker such as the Ascendant or the Moon. The simplest and traditional 
way of understanding this is in terms of the 12 signs of the zodiac, Aries, Taurus, etc. If 
the Moon is in Taurus, then Taurus is the first house or place from the Moon. Gemini is the 
second. Aries is the twelfth, etc. One only has to count round by signs. The Ascendant is in 


the sign rising on the Eastern horizon at the time of birth. 


THE JOURNEY 


On March 3rd 1995, | entered the sacred and tranquil valley surrounding the small 
village of Kollur. | had fostered a desire to visit here for eight years since a friend told me about 
it. | did not know why | felt this connection but when | was finally able to travel to India | set 
my heart on reaching that place. It seemed very special and | must have feared going straight 
there in case my energy was unprepared. | chose to go first to Tamil Nadu on the opposite 


coast and to the great temple of Rameshvaram. 


Rameshvaram is on the spit of land opposite Sri Lanka. This is the place Shri Rama 
worshipped Lord Shiva before launching his campaign to recover his wife Sita from the 
demon king. To cross the ocean, his army of monkeys and bears built a bridge or causeway 
across the ocean. This was many thousands of years ago but, amazingly, the remains of a 
causeway to Sri Lanka are still visible in satellite photos. According to temple records, Shit 
Rama’s bridge was passable being completely above the sea until destroyed by a cyclone in 
1480 AD. 


From Rameshvaram, | visited the great temple of Minakshi and thence to the very tip of 
India, Kanyakumari. This place has remarkable temples especially that of the Virgin Goddess. 
| rose and went at 3:30 am and was almost alone in witnessing the bathing of the Goddess in 
milk. It was the Full Moon day. A little later | did homage to the shrine for the Navagraha and 
received a distinct blessing. Prior to that | had done some study of Jyotisha but had received 
no authority from any Guru or other source to study and practice. This was a most unex- 


pected Grace. 


From Kanyakumari, | travelled up the Kerala coast visiting Ashrams and temples until 
| came to Kollur. It was a great moment, though for no obvious reason at all. Kollur is home 
to the famous temple of Devi Mookambika, the Goddess of the mouth. It is said she grants 
blessings related to the voice and the arts. Most evenings, artists from all over India come to 


perform before her. They sing, dance and play instruments. 


At the time | knew nothing about this temple. | did not know that astrologers from all 
over South India come here to pray and do penance for Vak Siddhi, the power that whatever 
one says proves true. After all, people expect an astrologer to have this power. While, in rare 
cases, it is possible that a person is born with this, generally it only arises after long and sin- 
cere spiritual practice. This is why Vedic Astrology, Jyotisha, is primarily a spiritual discipline 


and one should seek a guru or gurus to guide one’s spiritual and intellectual development. 


The essence of success in an earthly endeavour is the Grace of the Goddess and for 


each aspirant there is some form that appeals to him or her and which can grant success. 


There are rules for finding this form but ultimately it is very personal. | should make it clear that 
talk of gods and goddesses does not conflict with the monotheistic view because the Vedic 
view is that the One takes whatever form we desire or can be approached as purely formless 
if that is our path. 


The worship of the Goddess in India is, at its peak, related to the Shri Vidya and the 
Shri Chakra. The great sage and teacher Adi Shankaracharya installed a Shri Chakra under 
the deity in the Mookambika temple. After some time in Kollur, | came to know that he also 
installed a Shri Chakra at the top of the highest mountain nearby where the root shrine of 
the Goddess is to be found. Part of the pilgrimage is to walk to the top of this mountain. It 
is about 12 miles or one can take the bus part of the way and walk the last 3-4 hours. | had 
many extraordinary experiences on this mountain as well as in the temple, which | will write 
about elsewhere. 


While | was staying at the temple, somehow | conceived of this book. It seemed to me 
that the sets of 108 names of the Grahas (planets) were important and used by astrologers 
but | could find no trace of a translation or commentary. So | started making notes. When | 
could not understand a word, | discussed it with my friend UmaShankar Jois who is one of the 
distinguished priests at the temple. He studied Jyotisha with a great Guru though he passed 
away before my friend’s studies were complete. UmaShankar is a great expert in the remedial 
measures and he felt | had some knowledge on the analysis of charts so we spent a lot of time 
discussing Jyotisha together. 


I stayed at Kollur for more than 40 days, as is the custom, and then went for Shivaratri 
in Varanasi. This is the greatest festival for Lord Shiva and Varanasi is considered the city of 
Shiva, and is one of the most profound places to celebrate it. As | was about to leave Kollur, 
| went to the temple to take Her leave to go. The priests put me at the front during the Arti 
(ritual waving of lights before the shrine), which is the peak of the evening worship. Then | got 
on the bus to go to Bangalore where | could catch a train for the North. 


As it happened, the conductor of this bus was part of a ring of thieves who stole the 
luggage of innocents like me. | arrived in Bangalore without anything, all my notes were gone. 
Still | managed to continue my journey and reached Varanasi, the great city of Shiva, at 4 am 
on Shivaratri. | washed and went straight to the temple having no luggage to concern me. 
Standing in the queue | noticed that | was the only male wearing traditional clothing. There 
was a guard on the door and they often turn ‘tourists’ away. He looked me over for a while 
and then enthusiastically said ‘om namah Ssivaya’ and waived me in. 


The next year, | returned to Kollur with another notebook. | started by writing down all 
that | remembered and naturally found that my understanding had improved over the year and 
quickly was ahead of my previous work. When | left Kollur after another 40+ days | had just 


a few names which | could not decipher. | visited Prof. Ramachandra Rao in Bangalore who 
was one of the two people that | found who had published the lists of the names. We had an 
interesting discussion. He was a very great scholar. Unfortunately, he has now passed away. 
Travelling through India | met many good scholars who kindly gave me their opinions so the 
meanings became clear. Since then, from time to time | wrote my small commentary. It re- 


flects many stages in my own spiritual life. | hope you enjoy it. 


In 2007, | visited a small house a few miles north of the great Konark temple. This 
temple, though now partially ruined, was perhaps India’s greatest temple to the Sun god. It 
is built like a giant chariot. Some of the carvings are now in the British Museum including 
the large carvings of the nine Grahas (planets). The Konark temple stands near the beach in 
the North Eastern part of India’s V shape so is one of the first places to see the rays of the 
rising Sun. Konark is some 20 miles north of Puri where the great Jagannatha temple of Lord 
Krishna is to be found administered by the Shankaracharya of the East. He is charged with 


maintaining the Rig Veda, accepted as humanity’s oldest recorded wisdom text. 


About 500 years ago, the great spiritual teacher Chaitanya Mahaprabhu resided here 
and the lineages derived from him are still very widespread today, such as ISKCON. He had 
five ‘sakhas’ or friends, as they were called, one of which was Swami Achyutananda. The 
Swami was initiated by the great teacher at an early age and went on to become the King’s 
astrologer, a noted author of over 200 books and an enlightened sage. He also founded 13 
schools in the region. These taught various sciences and several were dedicated to Jyotisha. 
When he was leaving his body, he promised to remain in a ‘shunya’ form. Shunya means the 
void and it is a term he explained in great depth in one of his books. It does not refer to mere 


nothingness but to a profound state of Being. 


He kept his promise and even today you can go and consult him. That is where | was 
going. There is a small shrine and next to it are the quarters of a pandit who keeps and 
interprets a set of copper plates (tamra poti). These plates only contain some drawings like 
the shape of a lotus, but when you enter there with a question in your mind, the answer 
appears written in ancient Odia (the local language 500 years ago) and the pandit reads them 
for you. If you look, you can actually see the writing appear. | went there with several friends, 
all of whom were students of Pandit Sanjay Rath who is the last remaining person carrying 
the knowledge of the Jyotisha schools founded by the Swami. In effect, we had joined his 
lineage. The answers we got were remarkably pertinent and insightful. We were all given 
mantras. | later talked to a colleague who has taken over 40 people there and he said no one 


had ever been given a mantra. 


The Swami told me to finish my book. | noticed that when | did the mantra, | would 


work more on this text. | hope he forgives me for the long time spent in fulfilling his instruction 


but perhaps | or the time was not ripe before now. This year (2015) marks the 20th year since 
| started and only this year did | make the important discovery about the Vimshottari Dasha 
which is published in this book. In the derivation of the Vimshottari Dasha cycles or periods, 


the great significance of 20 years is revealed. 


The name of the Sun temple is from Kona + Arka. Arka is a name of the Sun and 
Kona means trine. In Jyotisha, this indicates the Dharma Trikona, the sustainer of life, which | 
have written about in many places in this book and is so important in the interpretation of the 


Vimshottari Dasha. 


NOTES ON PRONOUNCIATION FROM THE TRANSLITERATION 


In the transliteration, there are marks called diacriticals that aid correct pronunciation. 


In Sanskrit there are long and short syllables. The long ones are to be sounded for 
twice as long as the short ones, even longer is OK. Vowels with a line over them like ‘a’ and 
double vowels like ‘ai’ are all long. ‘h’ (h with a dot under it) is pronounced like ‘ah’, that is 
with aspiration. It is often pronounced as ‘ahah’ but this is not recommended for mantras as 
it effectively adds another syllable and the syllable count of a mantra is important. ‘s’ with an 


acute accent is like ‘sh’. For example, ‘Sukrah’ is pronounced ‘shukrah’. 


Consonants or sibilants with a dot under them like t or s are retroflex. For example, t is 
pronounced as the ‘t’ in Tom. You curl your tongue back and strike your palate. ‘t’ on the other 
hand is a dental sound. ‘th’ is ‘t’ with some aspiration as are all the other syllables that have 


an ‘h’ like ‘bh’, ‘dh’ and ‘gh’. You just blow a little when saying the consonant. 


The ‘r’ such as in ‘brhat’ is a vowel in Sanskrit pronounced like the ‘ry’ in jewelry. ‘c’ is 
pronounced as ‘ch’, as in ‘change’. In the commentary, | usually use ‘ch’. If ‘ch’ appears in the 
transliteration, then it is like ‘chh’, which is ‘ch’ with some extra aspiration. 


Please visit a Sanskrit learning web site or teacher for more detailed advice. One good 
site is learnsanskrit.org. 


The Devanagari (Sanskrit) support on a PC is excellent but may not be so perfect on 
mobile devices. Older Kindle devices and other eReaders may not show it at all. One can al- 


ways check against the transliteration, which should be correct. 


Please note that the first time part of a mantra is mentioned in the following text, it is 
italicized. Sanskrit terms in the commentaries are often transliterated but not always accord- 
ing to the more rigorous scheme. Sometimes the more usual form is followed using the stan- 
dard English alphabet. 


HYMN IN HONOUR OF THE PLANETS 


so Th TUNA Aa: 


om gar ganapataye namah 


Sa HURRAH AM: IM YTHE Sera 
TEM Yr: Walghda: Fs Wer: WA HU Fadil 


brahma muraristripurantakarl bhanuh Sast 
bhiUmisuto budhasca | 
gurusca Sukrah Sanirahuketavah sarve grahah 


Santi kara bhavantu || 


Brahma (the Creator), Murari (Vishnu, the Sustainer), Tripurantakarin (Siva, the slayer of the 
demon Tripurasura), Bhanu (the Sun), Shashin (the Moon), Bhimisuta (Mars, the son of the 
Earth), Budha (Mercury), Guru (Jupiter), Shukra (Venus), Shani (Saturn), Rahu and Ketu, may 


all these Grahas be peaceful. 


MERCURY, BUDHA 


so SIA AA: 


om budhaya namah 


1. Salutations to the learned one. 


Budha has a great depth of meaning. It has the sense of awaking, being learned and 
wise; to know, learn, and perceive as well as causing others to learn or realize. When the Sun 
causes a flower to expand its blossoms, that is Budh. The awakening of consciousness is 
Budh. Buddha is the awakened one, and this is derived grammatically from Buch. 


xo Seas AA: 


om budharcitaya namah 


2. Worshipped by the wise. 


Budha is the light (Archi) of wisdom itself. It is that light that is praised, not some 
personality. When we honour a sage or anyone, we are praising their wisdom and other qual- 
ities, not the individuality. If someone praises us and we take it personally and our ego rises 
up, then this can then lead to much trouble. In the ancient law book, the Manu Smriti, it says 
that praise burns up the virtues of a person like a forest fire. On the other hand, when people 


pays attention will Know the truth of this. Life is really quite different from what it appears to 
be. 


We all have the light of wisdom within us. It is like a small flame that grows with care 
and attention. Initially, we may have to be extremely quiet to bring it to conscious awareness. 
Having found it, then we should give it the fuel of attention every day. The wise are those who 
constantly attend the flame. Traditionally, the sacred fire is worshipped at every junction of the 
day: sunrise, midday (apparent noon) and sunset. The junction times are moments of quiet in 
nature when it is easier to find the inner light. If we keep feeding the fire it may burn so bright 


that it never leaves our awareness. 


Xo GFA AA: 


om saumyaya namah 


3. Peaceful, content. 


Saumya can mean born from Soma, which is a name of the Moon. It is said that Jupiter 
was married to Tara (star) but then the Moon eloped with her and she bore Mercury by him. 
Eventually, by the intervention of Brahma, the creator, Tara was restored to Jupiter. When 
Jupiter saw the child, it was so beautiful that his anger melted and he adopted the child. From 
this we know that Mercury indicates adoption and also a Guru's (Jupiter) students who are 
like his children during their studies. Also, that Mercury can make a person very handsome or 
charming. 


The nature of true wisdom is that it leaves us in a very gentle and peaceful inner state. 
ALTHO QNteYS <> sinensis se einisis Moai sisigis alsin Sn sieion'e See ssi ee swe aes sidaebias se siciaiciseininesaiPeinsins Hes'ce woah eie'S sais sieeGesesins cove ase ts 
Like the Moon or the Divine Mother, it has great softness and is utterly relaxed. The person 


may be very active in their life but internally there is a calm steadiness. 


Xo Oirarad Aa: 


om saumyacittaya namah 


4. Of peaceful mind. 


This state of peace (Saumya) pervades all the active states of the mind. Citta is the 
heart, the mind, the memory, the intellect and reason. It is also what we see and desire. 
Everything is made calm. Mercury (reason) and the Moon (feeling, desire) tend to compete 


Highhahters:- 


ae confusion. The solution lies in this stat® of peacefulness, which arises from ‘the awak- 


30 Bye AH: 
om subhapradaya namah 


5. Giver (Prada) of all good (Shubha). 


Real peace gives every kind of useful benefit. There is nothing to compare with it other 
than those sublime states that arise from it. Out of one awakening, another arises, each more 


beautiful than the last. One experience is the flow of insights into problems as they come to 


mind, small or big. Others are the internal openings, the spiritual awakenings. This flow can 
happen to anyone, it only takes a little bit of peace in the heart. The world is full of distrac- 
tions. This is why, when we have a problem to solve, we put down out phones and computers 
and go for a walk on our own in the park or go and sit in a shrine. 


so Guqa4s AH: 


om drdhavrataya namah 


6. Of firm vows (Drdha Vrata). 


Firm means persisting with what one vows to do. Mercury rules two Zodiac signs: 
Gemini, an air sign and Virgo, an earth sign. Air gives movement and earth gives stability. 


; . 3. Highlighters! s-=:s22226222<0s2sn5se22 sees ser sricetienssescsecsss 
When resolved, its undertakings can be unshakeable. 


This name gives us the clue that Mercury is the planet that has the willingness and 
capability to repeat a mantra very many times. This is helpful for spiritual practices as well as 
in the Vedic remedies. These are to help if some area of one’s life is blocked or afflicted. This 
typically involves spending a few minutes or hours a day for 40 days or a year repeating a par- 
ticular mantra. Perhaps one has to repeat it 100,000 times. When you start doing it, it starts to 
work and that may involve, on occasions, some tough experiences as one’s dysfunctions get 
redressed. It is like a washing machine. If one does not have a firm resolve, one will not keep 
at it and little will be achieved. The astrological chart shows us our limitations. We can then 
work to lessen these limits or not, as we wish. If we choose to wear them away, we will have 


to do the work involved but the rewards are great. 


30 GUHA AH: 


om drdhaphalaya namah 


7. Giving stable, long-lasting results. 


Dhrdha indicates that the results (Phala) of the vows undertaken are not momentary 
but have real and profound implications. This underlines that a firm resolve is always essen- 
tial for success. 


Xo Mls Vs Aoply AA: 


om srutijalaprabodhakaya namah 


8. Competent in creating an effect. 


Shrutijala can mean magic or illusion. It can also mean the collection (Jala) of the Vedic 
hymns. They are called Shruti, that which is heard or cognized. Prabodhaka suggests great 
power or ability. 


Having made a firm vow to accomplish something, how is this undertaken by Budha? 
Here we are told that his learning and skill are employed. While Mars shows his sword, 
Mercury skillfully creates an effect to direct the minds of others to support his intent. If he is 
expert in mantras, he can even hamess the subtle powers of nature. This can be thought of 
as magic and there are legitimate and illegitimate uses of mantra. Those who indulge in black 
magic are digging themselves a deep hole. However skilful, sooner or later they fall into the 


well of their own creation from which it is hard to escape. 


Mantras done for self-purification and awakening are harmless, if we know what we 
are doing. Some mantras, like those in this book, are safe. However, please read the section 
Caveat on page 9. Others are meant to be received from an expert who can determine their 
suitability for the person. There are many rules and it is desirable that the teacher has awak- 
ened the Shakti of the mantra through their own consciousness and practice. 


0 AAS AG: 


om satya'vasaya namah 


9. Truth is dwelling in him. Clothed only in truth. 


Satya is truth. Avasa is unclothed or naked. This name is mentioned here to counter 
any possible misunderstanding from the last name. Black magic or any kind of deceit is not 
truth. Truth is never deceitful. Therefore, the only type of Mantric application that is legitimate 
is if it transforms the user to a higher state and makes him or her fit for a better destiny. 
Some people are born with some kind of ability. With little effort, they can make others or 
even natural forces do their bidding. | have personally observed that exploiting such power is 
not advisable except in extreme circumstances. The difficulty is that one does not know the 
scope of what one is doing. 


Suppose there is a drought and you make it rain. If you have that blessing, which is 
in hig t 


directly ‘related to to Mercury and the ‘nodes, ‘this i is ‘not difficult. However, ‘what happens to the 
weather in other places because of the change you induced? Has some farmer who needed 
rain been deprived because the rain went elsewhere? I’m giving a very mild example but | 


have seen more serious cases. We humans are expert in exploiting the natural world. If we 


had more power we would use it. Thank God we are given only a little even though it can be 


increased with practice 


That is why, first, we have to rise above our animal nature. Really, we are two creatures 
in one body. There is the violent, exploitative, selfish lower nature and there is the divine, 
selfless and utterly noble higher nature. We are all a mix. Infinite power resides at the base 
of the spine and it is part of the great intelligence of nature that it cannot be fully utilized by 
the selfish small ego. However, there are intermediate stages. It is like a novice warrior who is 
given a weapon after some training but before the full course is completed. At this stage, he 
might easily hurt himself or others. So, some power can be gained before the selfishness is 
transcended and that little power looks like a lot to the average human. That is how some bad 
things happen. The story of the sage Milarepa (Moon 6) . It is a helpful example. 


x0 Ueyarda AA: 


om satyavacase namah 


10. Speaking truth (Satya Vachas). 


He embodies truth and communicates it. Those fond of a particular religion naturally 
feel their book is the word of God and is the highest truth. That is why we expect the religious 
people to exemplify truthfulness. 


The signs of Mercury are opposite those of Jupiter. They are the two planets of learning 
4 Highest 


and knowledge | and ‘represent the teacher, “JUpiter, and the stUdent, ‘Mercury. When they j join 


in the sky, it is said to be a Guru Shishya (teacher + student) Yoga and is very auspicious. The 
neritstenetnenniicnshadacnattecenansttaousesmanagsasactnesegasncnarstnnmrgberes spacaecscsnneninesce stacleusneseahtnen snes: Highlight 
intelligence of Mercury guided by the wisdom of Jupiter, is the best possible situation. How ek 


the yoga expresses itself depends on the sign(s) of the zodiac involved. For example, Cancer 
gives the highest philosophy while Scorpio may take a Tantric angle. Whatever we find in this 
world, it is a result of the combinations of planets and constellations. Each person is a unique 


expression, evolving according to the Divine Will and thus perfect in God’s view. 


Traditionally, each Guru saw what the tendency of the student was and gave him or 
her the appropriate kind of Knowledge and work. That is why individual guidance is best. An 
instruction given to someone else is just for them unless it rings in our heart. Great teachers 
can answer our questions even if we are unable to get close enough to ask. We only need to 


be alert for the clues. 


The Mercury Jupiter conjunction has other names. Jupiter rules the North-East where 
Gemini lies in the Vedic chart. As this is the direction of Ishana (Shiva), this combination is 
called Ishana Yoga. In Lord Krishna’s chart, Mercury and Jupiter are conjoined in planetary 


war in the fifth house. This house can indicate books and the great Bhagavad Gita was 
expounded on the battlefield. Hence, this Yoga is sometimes called the Bhagavad Gita Yoga. 
It is highly fruitful and auspicious. It can start wisdom lineages. 

The opposition of Mercury and Jupiter represents the debate between the teacher and 


3 Highlighters ----------------- +--+ 2-22-22 eee enon eee n ne ne nnn nn ne nn nnn ne nn nn nnn en nn ene ene enn eee ee reer: 


the student. A bright student delights the teacher by asking difficult questions. The simple 
and devoted also delight the teacher because their simplicity is the essence of truth. The 
great Adi Shankaracharya had four disciples. Two had great learning and the third exceptional 
realization. The fourth washed the master’s clothes and performed other needed service. 
Through this simple devotion, he was the first to realize the complete Knowledge. The Guru 


appointed him as the master of the knowledge in the North. 


Mercury, unless retrograde, is debilitated in Pisces, a sign of Jupiter. Pisces is the 12% 
sign of the zodiac and represents the end of the path. in Pisces, all our attempts at self-pro- 
motion have to end so we can fit through the slim gateway into the field of bliss. Overcoming 
the ego is the challenge of every Pisces Ascendant. When Mercury is exalted, we are full of 
brilliant ideas or busy with collecting wealth. The debilitation is the challenge to accept the 
wisdom of Jupiter without trying to reinvent it. Whatever Graha is in Pisces, there is the op- 


portunity to gently let go of its agenda. This can make the Graha very auspicious. 


xo yet VAs AA: 
om Sreyasam pataye namah 


11. Lord among the righteous or fortunate. 


Pati is the leading person or lord and Shreyasam are the blessed or most fortunate 
ones. Having a strong Mercury is a great blessing. It suggests a good intellect and the intelli- 
gent always rise to the top. 


Homo Sapiens rules the Earth because of our vastly greater intelligence. The other 
hominids must have fallen a little short despite having greater physical strength in some 
cases, so they are gone. Now the question arises, what if the universe or some lab comes up 
with another species that is far more intelligent? If we are just a few genetic mutations away 
from the great apes, then this seems most likely to occur. 


This line of thought always brings me back to the extraordinary yogis that have existed 
over the millennia. People who have capabilities that are so beyond the ordinary that most 
people cannot believe they exist. Some are said to have lived for thousands of years or have 
various abilities like levitation. A few years ago, when | was visiting India, | was told about a 
sage who was, at that time, living in a lake. He came out every few weeks for a few hours and 


then went back under the water. The fish would nibble at his skin but no people disturbed him. 


Finding a place to meditate undisturbed is very hard. That is why the yogis go so far 
into the Himalaya. Mountaineers saw beings walking in remote and uninhabitable places and 
there was talk about ‘yetis’. Actually there is a Sanskrit word Yati for an ascetic. These people 
are protected by our disbelief but if they exist, and there are eyewitness reports that they do, 


then they would be a match for any advanced species, human or alien. 


In one of the Vedic texts, the Yoga Vasistha, that is believed to be extremely ancient, 
it describes a voyage undertaken by two ladies far beyond our Solar system. The Goddess 
Saraswati visits Queen Lila and decides to take her on a tour of the universe. Refer to Ketu 
105 for more on this story. Whatever one’s willingness to believe, the statements in the Yoga 


Vasistha are surely quite remarkable. 


0 FouUTy AH: 


om avyayaya namah 


12. Imperishable. 


While force perishes (Vyaya), truthful intelligence survives (Avyaya). Ultimately, only 
pure Truth is imperishable. It is the supreme blessing that this is knowable. 


x0 MASA AA: 


om somajaya namah 


13. Born (Ja) of the Moon (Soma). 


Soma is the nectar of immortality. Imperishability comes from Soma, and Soma is the 
nectar of Truth. By adhering to truth we come closer to that and begin to feel the influence 
of the Soma. This makes us longer lived. That is how some saints in India have lived for 
hundreds or thousands of years. Of course, some people will find this incredible but | am 
not trying to convince anyone. If you spend time in India, you will see amazing things. The 
incredible can become credible. For most people, however, this longevity is more a matter 
of consciousness. One feels an inner sense of immortality and increasingly loses the fear of 
death. 


xo Tac AH: 


om sukhadaya namah 


14. The giver (Da) of happiness (Sukha). 


Truth is the only source of real happiness because it generates Soma, which is the 
essence of bliss. Mercury can represent all kinds of entertainment and entertainers. Gemini 
is especially associated with such people. Since its central part contains the constellation of 
tears, Ardra, we get the classic tragic comic, someone who makes everyone laugh but has 
a tough personal life, or the tragicomedy of Shakespeare and others. Ardra often produces 


astrologers. They have to see from where the crying is coming and try to bring some laughter. 


Xo SA AH: 


om srimate namah 


15. Possessed of all auspiciousness and wealth. 


Shriman is also the first name of the Moon, the father of Mercury. The lineage of the 


Moon is full of auspiciousness. 


xo MAaMUc HA AH: 


om somavamSsapradipakaya namah 


16. Shining (Pradipaka) in the family of the Moon (Soma Vamsha). 


He is the outstanding member of that lineage. The Moon and Mercury have a complex 
relationship. In the story, the Moon is the father of Mercury but in the chart the Moon is the 
mother. She, the mother, loves him but he sees her as an enemy. It is natural for a mother to 
love her child but children who have been born under unfortunate circumstances may blame 
their parents. Mercury, according to the story of his birth (Moon 3), was a bastard child. Even 
though he was adopted by his mother’s husband, he feels badly towards his mother. These 
stories make it easy for us to remember the relationships between the Grahas in Vedic Astrol- 


ogy. At the same time, we see the same thing playing out in day-to-day life. 


x0 adafac AH: 


om vedavide namah 


17. The knower (Vid) of the Veda. 


Mercury shines gloriously when it has imbued good knowledge. The Veda is the 
highest knowledge because it was not a human creation; the seers heard the hymns deep 
in their meditation and sung them out. Others copied them down. It is said ‘Vedavid vedaiva 
bhavati’, the knower of the Veda is the Veda itself, or becomes That. Listening to the Vedic 
hymns thrills the soul because it awakens the finest impulses of creation and consciousness 
itself. The words of the enlightened have a similar effect and the texts they have written are 


very powerful. 


xo ACTA AH: 


om vedatattvajhaya namah 


18. The knower (Jfia) of the essence (Tattva) of the Veda. 


Knowing the Veda is the first level of being a seer. Beyond that there is the level of 
fathoming the essence of it and expounding that for the benefit of others. 


Xo ACTA MOT AEHUT AA: 
om vedantajhanabhaskaraya namah 


19. Shining (Bhaskara) with the knowledge (Jfana) of Vedanta. 


What is the ultimate essence of the Veda? It is called Vedanta, literally the end, ‘anta’, 
of the Veda. Vedanta is the wisdom of Oneness. It arises from the direct experience of a 
state where all creation appears like a dream within a grand wholeness. The dream is real but 
transient and as such appears unreal. The wholeness is dominant. This makes the dream sec- 


ondary or as if an illusion (Maya). 


Anyone who persists with their spiritual practices can reach this state even if they have 
never heard of it. In fact it is never as one has heard, being inherently indescribable. Different 
intellects will express their experience differently and this can give rise to various philoso- 


phies. These philosophies can be useful if one has the experience described. 


x0 Faq iaaqavre AH: 


om vidyavicaksanaya namah 


20. Skilful (Vicaksana) in knowledge. 


Vidya indicates all kinds of knowledge from the sacred lore of the Vedas to all the arts 
and sciences. It can include special mantras and other techniques for doing magic. Mercury 
can be expert in this but it is only beneficial if not associated with any greed or selfishness, 


nor employed to assist any selfish persons. 


xo Tacy Au: 


om viduse namah 


21. Wise (Vidus). 


Whatever skill one has acquired must be associated with real wisdom. Book learning 
is not wisdom but it may help as a preparation. The biggest problem with learning is the 
acquisition of concepts. Concepts have their value but they cover up our innate knowing. 
Once we buy into ‘the world is like this’, then we stop innocently seeing the world as it is. All 
propaganda is about selling a concept because, once one has bought in, one is easily ma- 
nipulated using that concept as a platform. It generates communities of people who imagine 
they are like-minded because they are all subscribers to a particular concept and that can be 
a positive thing until those managing the concept start a conflict with the members of a an- 
other conceptual group. 


If one is to truly know oneself, one has to peel off the layers of concepts until the inner 
innocence is revealed. It is about letting go of concepts such as ‘| am female or male’. The 
realities remain but the identification with the differentiation loses its addictive grip. The soul is 
neither male nor female. It can take a female body and then take a male one. If there has been 
a long series of female bodies and then a male body is assumed, after some time the person 
may think ‘something is wrong, | should have been female’. The subtle structures of past 
lives remain and we are influenced by them but we only rarely visually remember memories 
of those lives. However, if we observe our experiences, we can figure out many things about 
these shadows. You go to a place and feel as if you’ve been there before. You meet a stranger 
but they seem familiar. A child is born and from the earliest age has particular talents or strong 


interests. How did Mozart start composing at the age of five? 


My scientific colleagues may try to show that by some freak of chance, Mozart’s brain 
had some special wiring, which is all fine. That is the shadow | am talking about and it does 
not matter whether you want to make theories about past lives or imagine it is all chance. 


However, the evidence for past lives is quite extensive. Close to my home, the famous Univer- 


sity of Virginia has a department specializing in reincarnation research. They have a database 
of over 2500 cases where children have given information about a previous life, which has 
been checked out to a greater or lesser degree. | have personally come across two clear cut 
cases like that, perhaps you have too. Since | started talking about it, several people have 
brought me their own experiences that sound convincing. I, myself, have thought forms from 
multiple cultures. This helps me identify with many different people. Had | been repeatedly 
reborn in the same culture, | would be one of those people fighting to protect it against any 


‘foreign’ intrusion. 


| can identify with Americans, Europeans, Indians, Africans, Chinese and Arabs but 
who am I? The truth is ‘none of the above’. All of that is what is. My Indian shadow, an old 
pandit, is very strong. When | visit a Middle-Eastern country, | can sense | was a scholar there 
once and it is quite emotional. The only way to handle it is to let it be just as it is, let go of all 
the concepts and then there is a chance of knowing the real truth. The emotional body may 
still experience the dramas of the shadows but that is just the environment of the Self. The 


Self is beyond all races and all places. 


so fageuticn ua AH: 


om vidvatpritikaraya namah 


22. He causes fondness (Pritikara) of those possessed of wisdom (Vidvat). 


He represents those who are delighted by the wise or learned and they are delighted 
with him. Delighted means any kind of joy, friendliness or kindness. A teacher is always look- 


ing for a good student. 


30 Hod AA: 


om rjave namah 


23. Upright, honest, straightforward, favourable (Aju). 


The wise love those who are honest and upright and they help them. Good rulers 
attract good advisors. If the ruler is not honest the good advisors prefer to busy themselves in 
their private studies and with their students though they will do their best to protect the peo- 


ple through good advice, if asked. 


30 TasHreyNs AH: 


om viSvanukulasaficaraya namah 


24. Bringing about (Saficara) universal kindness. (ViSva Anuktila) 


He has an attitude of agreeableness towards everything. The mark of a truly wise 
person is that they do not harbour any negative attitudes. Lord Rama, who had to fight the 
demon Ravana who stole his wife, is the exemplar as he was never heard speaking ill of 


anyone. 


The state of enlightenment is a state where everything is seen to emanate from or be 
of the same essence as the Self. One has no issuewith one’s own Being. There is a state 
where every body is equally one’s own body. If one experiences this state, then it is easy 
to understand. Otherwise, we concern ourselves with one body and to a lesser extent a few 
others who appear close to us. It has been wisely said, ‘knowledge is different in different 


states of consciousness’. 


xo Tagyfaqat-acana Aa: 


om visesavinayanvitaya namah 


25. Possessed (Anvita) of exceptional politeness (Vishesa Vinaya), good conduct. 


If Mercury is not strong, then we have to try a little harder to be polite. Vedic Astrology 
says that Mercury alone is exalted in its own sign. That means, if we want to exhibit more of 
Mercury’s good qualities, we have to use our own intelligence and determination to do so. 
For example, if we want to spend time with people who do not swear and we have got into a 
habit of using swear words, then we can adjust if we firmly decide to do so and practise not 
swearing. It is the Pygmalion (My Fair Lady) story and all of us can up our game if for some 
reason we wish to do so. However, whether we have a certain type of behaviour or not has 
nothing to do with real wisdom. Society has concepts about what defines politeness. Mercury 


is capable of adjusting well to that. 


30 Tala anata Aa: 


om vividhagamasarajhaya namah 


26. The knower (fia) of the essence (Sara) of manifold scriptures and sciences (Vividha 
Agama). 


The essence of the subject is determined by the intellect because that is its function. It 


keeps penetrating until it reaches the finest level. 


0 aad AF: 


om viryavate namah 


27. Endowed with vitality (Virya). 


Vitality arises from knowing the essence. The word Sara used in the previous name 
(Mercury 26), means essence. It is closely related to the word Rasa, which is like the sap of a 
plant. Ayurveda makes Rasayanas, herbal preparations, which make the body strong. Subtle 
insight vitalizes the intelligence. The vision of wholeness is the highest form of Rasa and revi- 


talizes everything, even one’s environment. 


30 Tatasauy Aa: 


om vigatajvaraya namah 


28. Free from anxiety, fever (Jvara). Literally, dispersing (Vigata) it. 


We may be anxious about using a machine until we understand how it works. In this 
way, proper knowledge removes anxiety like proper medicine removes fever. The knowledge 
of the unified wholeness of life removes the ultimate cause of all distress. 


Xo Frattepciala 4H: 


om trivargaphaladaya namah 


29. Giving (Da) fruits (Phala) to the initiated. 


What is it that gives fruits (Pha/a) to the initiated? It must be the object of their devotion, 
the Supreme Being. This is why, Mercury, the Graha, is associated with Lord Vishnu. Vishnu 
means the all-pervading One who sustains everything. Because he sustains everything, he is 


concerned about the social order and welfare. 


Trivarga can refer to the three twice-born Varnas or sections of society. That is, all the 
people who would take initiation into the Gayatri Mantra and practice it three times a day at 
sunrise, apparent noon and sunset. Whether one is fit for initiation has nothing intrinsically to 
do with one’s family background. If one is sincerely interested in higher wisdom, then one is 


fit for initiation. 


One’s group as defined by Varna is based on one’s mental propensity. Caste is a 
corruption of this based on birth. Caste systems of various kinds are found in most countries. 
After the Norman invasion of England in 1066, the society became intensely stratified and this 


only started to fall away quite recently. 


Only a few hundred years ago, certainly in parts of India, caste was determined by 
one’s choice of profession. Then it degenerated into a question of birth and some who were 
born into high caste families forgot the compassion of their forebears and obtained a low 
reputation for their clan. Naturally, children tend to follow the behaviour and profession of their 
parents but, where they follow a different path, they should be considered to belong to the 
‘caste’ that suits their mentality and activities. That is, if one insists on having a caste concept 
at all. In reality, the disrespect earned by many ‘high caste’ people in India was due to simple 
human selfishness and misplaced pride while their family tradition was one of humility, gen- 


erosity and care for the needy. 


Vedic Astrologers and teachers of any Vedic discipline are Brahmins by profession. 
Therefore, they must set a very high example and maintain a regular spiritual practice. The 
sages say to be a Brahmin one must have a regular spiritual practice. After all, such practice 
has many precious benefits. 


30 3T4-qTy AA: 


om anantaya namah 


30. Endless (Ananta). 


That which is endless is the Supreme Being. Some might say that intellectual enquiries 
into knowledge are also endless, by which they mean that they will never reach the Supreme. 


If, however, they do reach the Supreme they end in the endless. 


If we have a strong influence of Mercury, we may tend to talk too much. If we can, we 
should convert this into the useful tendency of continuously repeating a mantra like this one 
while taking proper care when driving, handling machinery and any other task that requires 


full attention. 


Ananta is said to be the great Naga in serpent form on whom the Lord Vishnu rests. 
Ananta is the ruler of the upward direction and identified with Ketu, while Mercury’s deity is 
Vishnu. Both are all-pervading and thus endless. Ananta is said to recite the names of Vishnu 


through his 1000 mouths, typifying the firmness of worship indicated in Mercury 6. 


Thus the natural uprising of the Kundalini Shakti, the power of awakening, is indicated 


here as well as the result of this uprising, which is unbounded awareness, consciousness that 
is endless. The image of Vishnu resting on Ananta represents that endless consciousness that 
rests on the uprisen Kundalini. 


Ananta is said to have taken human form from time to time. His incarnations include 
Balarama, the brother of Shri Krishna, Maharishi Jaimini, who taught the most advanced 
knowledge of Jyotisha as well as the Purva Mimansa, and Maharishi Patanijali, who taught the 
great Yoga Sutras. The Yoga Sutras uplift our consciousness to a unified state and the Purva 
Mimansa then refines that condition so that only the ultimate onset of Brahman Conscious- 
ness remains. Beyond that there is no more meaning to states of consciousness though the 
process of refinement of the physical is endless. 


xo FC MTAAUSTaTs AA: 


om tridasadhipapujitaya namah 


31. Worshipped (Pdjita) by Indra, king (Adhipa) of the gods and the wholeness of natural law. 


The laws of nature are ever bowing to the Supreme Being, Vishnu. All of nature serves 
the wise. Tridasha means 3x10 or 30. This points towards the 30 degrees in each sign and 
specifically to the division of the sign into three sections of 10 degrees each. These are vari- 
ously called Drkana, Dreskana, Drekkana, etc. Mercury has Lord Vishnu as his deity but which 
form? This name reminds us that it depends in which Drekk€ana it falls. The first indicates Lord 
Rama, the second Lord Krsna and the third other of the ten avatars depending on the chart. 


om buddhimate namah 


32. Possessed of intelligence. 


This tells us explicitly that Buddhi or intellect has to be seen from Mercury in the chart. 
Buddhi has a very wide meaning including reasoning, judgment, comprehension, perception, 
meditation, presence of mind, having a ready wit, having a right opinion, etc. 


Those ruled by Mercury exhibit all these things including a love for wittiness. People 
with a strong Mercury tend to crack jokes or use words cleverly. 


30 SEMEAMTA AA: 


om bahuSsastrajhaya namah 


33. Knowing (Jfia) many sacred texts (Bahu Shastra). 


He knows many subjects. Mercury rules over two dual signs, Gemini and Virgo. A 
characteristic of dual signs is that they cause us to do multiple things at once which, being 


Mercury, means wanting to learn many things. 


Xo Seta AA: 


om baline namah 


34. Strong (Balin). 


Even though Mercury is a small fast moving planet, its influence is strong. That is why 
Maharishi Parashara gives his astrological aspect full strength. The only other planet so en- 


dowed is Jupiter. 


0 S-Ulaa aH AA: 


om bandhavimocakaya namah 


35. Completely destroying (Vimochaka) bondage (Bandha). 


Ignorance disappears when knowledge is acquired. Self-realization removes the il- 
lusion that ‘I am this body and personality’ and all the bondage that comes with that. 
The twelfth house of the astrological chart indicates bondage especially imprisonment, 
hospitalization, staying in an ashram or marriage. While the word bondage has a negative 
connotation, some forms of bondage, like marriage, are often much desired. Commitment is 
good. If there is a problem, it is to do with an internal identification with the experience, not 


the external situation. That identification is removed by real knowledge. 


Mercury indicates childhood, especially from four to twelve, and can promote childish 
behavior. Having multiple affairs without a commitment is a very immature expression of 
Mercury. In the immature state we avoid commitment to avoid ‘bondage’. In the mature state, 


we seek knowledge so we are free in the midst of all kinds of commitments. 


30 AMiIaw TAA AA: 


om vakrativakragamanaya namah 


36. Having both retrograde (Vakra) and very retrograde (Ativakra} motions (Gamana). 


Very retrograde means the phase of its apparent motion when the planet is moving 
backwards very fast. Mercury, being closer to the Sun than the Earth, appears to swing back- 
ward and forward in the sky and has the fastest backward motion of any planet. Vakra also 
has the sense of irregular motion. The Sun would be the example of regularity and Mercury’s 


frequent change of direction is seen as irregular. 


ao ATA AA: 


om vasavaya namah 


37. Wealthy (Vasava). 


Mercury rules over money and thus wealth (Vasu). An intelligent person is rarely poor 
unless that is his choice. Mercury gives both an interest and skill in business. Real wealth 
is a state of inner abundance and clarity. This name can also mean having the results of 
excellence or benevolence (Vasu). He rises up due to his good qualities. It is much more than 
just money. 


so FHM AF: 

om vasudhadhipaya namah 

38. The lord (Adhipa) of the earth (Vasudha). An emperor. Literally, the lord of wealth creation 
and liberality. 


A strong Mercury can indicate the most wealthy tycoons. A penniless English woman 
wrote a few books using her fertile imagination and became wealthier than the Queen of Eng- 


land — J.K. Rowling. 


30 Wasa aa Au: 


om prasannavadanaya namah 


39. Has pleasant or pleasing speech (Prasanna Vadana). 


If a writer’s book is going to be read it has to please the reader. If the whole world likes 


it, you are made. If one’s consciousness is pure, every word is delightful, whatever the words 


spoken. It carries a pleasing, enlivening vibration. Whatever is one’s state of mind and heart is 
what is conveyed, whatever the words one utters. Vadana can also mean the face. His look, 


his words and the points he makes are all pleasing. 


Ro A-qry AH: 


om vandyaya namah 


40. Worshipped (Vandya). 


If people like your words, they may even become adoring fans, disciples or followers. 


Social media is heavily into Mercury! 


Xo GUI AH: 


om varenyaya namah 


41. Pre-eminent (Varenya). The desired one. 


Those with a strong Mercury are highly intelligent and the intelligent rule the Earth and 
the skies. We see that the smart overcome the strong but the kind of intelligence exhibited by 
the great sages is entirely beyond any kind of ‘smart’ we know. It is a strange and wondrous 
thing that the powers of nature will serve the truly intelligent. The mark of true intelligence is 


the complete lack of neediness and egotism. 


One who has realized that level of intelligence has nothing further to acquire so takes 
nothing from anyone but constantly gives. That is why we all feel drawn to such people. We 
hope to get a little of their vastness. We pretend to be devoted but it is all selfishness. Even 
so, there is no blame because we know that we need help to rise higher and the wise want to 
help. It is their God-given task so there is no harm in approaching them. As long as we offer 


some service to them if the chance arises, there is no fault. 


Xo ATaaqaury AH: 


om vagvilaksanaya namah 


42. Of extraordinary speech (Vag Vilaksana). 


What one says or writes is exceptional in one way or another, which can include puns 


and strange or unexpected expressions. Naturally, this includes tales of wizardry. Motion pic- 


tures and other art with something of the extraordinary in them are highly popular. This name 
may help those with writers block. 


xo Ueaad Aa: 


om satyavate namah 


43. Truthful (Satya Vat). 


While Mercury can represent many kinds of expression, the best is one that expresses 
the highest truth. Someone with a strong Mercury should be naturally truthful. However, 
Mercury, being mercurial, is easily influenced by other planets as well as the sign it is in. The 
influence of Jupiter and the Sun are good as they have a natural purity being Sattvic. The 
Moon is also Sattvic so its influence is good but, as we have discussed, Mercury has issues 
with the Moon. Other planets can lead Mercury astray. If it were not so, the lawyers would 
have little business to do. The Tamas Grahas, Mars, Saturn, Rahu and Ketu can easily modify 
the truth for their own ends. They tend to be careless with it. Venus, being Rajas, likes the 
idea of truth but it is not always expedient. If Jupiter associates, then the person will likely be 
truthful. This is also true if the person’s Ascendant and Moon are strongly associated with the 
Sattva Grahas. 


Xo Headey Ay: 


om satyasamkalpaya namah 


44. Of truthful (Satya) intention (Samkailpa). 


Earlier we saw that Mercury can make a firm resolution and thereby gain great results. 
Sankalpa also means a definite intention to do something and here we see that it should be 
grounded in truth. Those ruled by Mercury must take care not to succumb to any dishonest 
plan. 


xo Uqeaae AA: 


om satyabandhave namah 


45. Of truthful association (Bandhv). 


Only a few decades ago, all business transactions in London, for example in the 
gem trade, were done with a handshake. Often there were no paper contracts. It was well 


known that ‘An Englishman’s word is his bond.’ It was even more true in India when the 
traditional practices were prevalent and it certainly is true of good people all over the world 
today. However, it seems that cheating and criminality are increasing, especially copyright 
violation. Honesty is the principal currency of a prosperous society. Without it, the money 
drains into the accounts of lawyers and security firms. Wealth still circulates but much less 
efficiently because every stage has to be more carefully guarded. Eventually, society be- 


comes ungovernable. 


| once visited a country and my host was said to be the only truly reliable and entirely 
honest person. He meditated every day. He was quite old but the (highly corrupt) President 
called him out of retirement to head the department that decides all estate issues. The Presi- 
dent knew that if he gave that job to anyone else, there would be chaos as every issue would 
be decided by a bribe. Even in an utterly corrupt government, an honest person is like gold 
because if there is no honesty, the whole structure collapses and then all the corrupt profits 
go with it. My friend died and shortly after that the country descended into civil war. The 
people were the nicest people but those who got themselves into positions of power often 


took advantage of it, as happens in many countries. 


This name can also mean having truthful relatives and friends and Mercury is the sig- 
nificator for these in the Vedic chart. 


30 UCTAUa AH: 
om sadadaraya namah 


46. Always (Sada) respectful. 


Adara is also reverence, honour, care, attention and eagerness. We have seen the 
importance of truthfulness. Now we are alerted to the importance of respectfulness as well as 
proper care and attention. These are all the keys to success in business as well as life in gen- 


eral. Purified consciousness respects everything because it sees itself in everything. 


Xo TAUTUIAAa Aa: 


om sarvarogapraSamanaya namah 


47. Quieting (Prashamana) all (Sarva) diseases. 


Roga is that which, literally, breaks up strength. Mercury rules over Virgo which is the 


place of herbs and medicine. If one’s Moon is in Virgo, or is connected with it, then one 


may follow a healing profession. Virgo is the sixth sign and is thereby connected to the sixth 
house, which rules over health and disease. Specifically it rules over the colon and good 
digestion is the key to good health. Virgo’s main issue is weak digestion. If the consciousness 
is pure, then the digestion is not disturbed by the fluctuating state of the mind. Medicine and 
meditation, Ayurveda and Yoga, are the means indicated here. Mercury is therefore a key 
planet for doctors and medicine. 


30 PARAAAHT TH: 


om sarvamrtyunivarakaya namah 


48. Warding off (Nivaraka) all (Sarva) (causes of) death (Mrtyu). 


This is one reason why Mercury represents healers. In particular, Mercury is the doctor 
who treats using food and medicine as he does not want to cut the skin. Surgery and 


acupuncture require the energy of Mars. 


36 TSAO AH: 


om vanijyanipunaya namah 


49. Skilled (Nipuna) in trade (Vanijya). 


After two names pointing at medicine, we now are reminded of the importance of 
Mercury for business and money. This is not money derived by luck, it comes through his 
skillfulness. 


30 TIAA AA: 


om vasyaya namah 


50. Attractive (Vashya). 


In so many ways, Mercury can make a person and a soul attractive. What makes 
someone attractive? Every one of our cells is programmed to do two things. Move away from 
pain and move towards resources. This programming is in the cell walls. The larger the cell 
wall, the better it works but there is a physical limit to how large a cell can become. Some 
scientists believe that larger organisms are nature’s way of making a larger surface area. 
Whatever the truth, we do move towards a source of energy that we seek whether it is in the 
form of money, food, power, fertility or spiritual upliftment. A strong Mercury can give you an 


abundance of one or more of these things and others move towards you as a result. 


x0 AMT STA AH: 


om vatangaya namah 


51. Beautiful limbed. 


Ayurveda describes every disease in terms of Vata (wind), Pitta (heat) and Kapha 
(phlegm). While each disease has a predominance of one, Vata is implicated in everything es- 


pecially pain. Vata is the first to go out of balance so when it is balanced, health is good. 


Xo aTeathted A: 


om vatarogahrte namah 


52. Taking away (Ht) diseases (Roga) caused by Vata dosha. 


Ayurveda describes every disease in terms of Vata (wind), Pitta (heat) and Kapha 
(phlegm). While each disease has a predominance of one, Vata is implicated in everything. 
Wherever there is pain, there is Vata. Vata is the first to go out of balance so when it is bal- 
anced, health is good. 


So EY AH: 


om sthulaya namah 


53. Powerful. 


Sthula can also mean big, bulky, corpulent or clumsy but clearly this name does 
not intend coarseness and the like, though it hints at Mercury's connection to corpulence. 
Mercury’s signs, Gemini and Virgo, are implicated in hormonal problems, which can promote 


obesity. This and the next name (54), echo Mercury’s lordship over the Earth element. 


xo COOMA AA: 


om sthairyagunadhyaksaya namah 


54. Presiding (Adhyaksa) over the quality (Guna) of firmness. 


Sthula or Sthairya is difficult to move, it cannot be easily pushed around. Afflictions to 
Mercury can indicate damage to the physical structure such as broken bones. Someone with 


a clear intelligence is also difficult to manipulate with falsehood. 


Xo CUTTEMIG HNO AH: 


om sthulasuksmadikaranaya namah 


55. Causing (Karana) grossness, subtlety and the like (Adj). 


This points to an intellect that defines or judges. A refined intellect locates the fine 
(Sukshma) within the gross (Sthi/a); it sees all qualities. Adi points at all kinds of qualities in 
the perceived world. The mind and senses register, the intellect recognizes and then defines 


or judges the qualities. 


Xo AYHMA AA: 
om aprakasaya namah 


56. Self-illumined. 


The ability to judge correctly is not a product of the intellect alone, which is not self- 
illumined, but of the Self, perceiving through the intellect. While we can observe things, even 
subtle things, and judge or infer invisible things like the intellect, the Self is hidden. Another 
interpretation is that the intellect is ‘dark’. Prakasha is shining and ‘a’ can mean ‘not’. That is, 
the intellect has no light of its own, it depends on the Self. Therefore, we should not rely on 
purely intellectual ways of acquiring knowledge. This is why, as one gets more educated, one 
becomes more and more aware of one’s ignorance as one sees the extent of what one does 


not know. Only the Self is the seat of all knowledge. 


0 YoRIMCHA AG: 


om prakasatmane namah 


57. The light of the Self (Atman). 


This name clarifies the meaning of the last one (56). It is the Self that illumines all our 
organs of knowing. The intellect has been said to be 'the lamp at the door’ making it possible 


for consciousness to realize itself as the Self and cognise the world at the same time. 


30 UAla Aa: 


om ghanaya namah 


58. Profound, solid (Ghana). 


As lord of the earth element, Mercury rules over everything that has solidity. Solidity 
implies material substance but what is truly profound? Only infinity, as everything else is much 


smaller. That is the nature of the Self. It has no boundaries and exists everywhere. 


30 TUTTO TH: 


om gaganabhusanaya namah 


59. Decorating (Bhisana) the heavens (Gagana) or adorned by it. 


The planet Mercury is an ornament of the sky. For the Self-realized the universe exists 


within the Self as an ornament. 


Xo Tate ET AF: 

om vidhistutyaya namah 

60. Praised (Stutya) by the wise, those whose intellect (Dh/) has attained pure discrimination 
(VA). 


It can also mean that he is praised by the Vedic rites and precepts (Vidhi). Here it is 
primarily pointing to Mercury as representing Lord Vishnu, the Godhead, but the Vedantic 
texts praise the knowledge of the Self, which is being repeatedly pointed to here. 


30 TAMTAaTA AH: 


om visalaksaya namah 


61. Large-eyed or one with a very broad vision (Vishala Aksa). 


This also means illustrious and noble as noble people are those who are broad minded, 
not blinkered. This is a name used for Lord Shiva. He is famous for having his third eye wide 
open. It is also a name for Shri Garuda, the king of the eagles and vehicle of Lord Vishnu. 


Eagles are also famous for their exceptional vision. The great astrologer Swami Achyuta- 
nanda is said to be the incarnation of Shri Garuda (see the chapter The Journey). 


Swamiji was one of the principal disciples (five friends) of Shri Chaitanya Mahaprabhu, 
the great devotee of Shri Krishna who displayed his extraordinary grace about 500 years ago. 
Anyone he touched became thrilled with the nectar of devotion. He had a disciple who was 
a Muslim. For him, Chaitanya crafted the Hare Krishna mantra which was a reversal of the 
traditional Krishna mantra and which could be easily chanted by anyone. This mantra has be- 
come famous throughout the world. 


xo fagsMaateuy AA: 

om vidvajjanamanoharaya namah 

62. Enchanting (Manohara) the learned people (Vidvat Jana) (with his brilliance and good 
qualities). 


Naturally, this extends to entertainers in general and reminds us that all kinds of public 
speakers are ultimately there to fascinate and entertain. If one looks at the Vedic charts of 
people who have risen to become national leaders, they all have a strong influence of Mer- 
cury. People have to want to listen to them. 


30 ATOM AA: 


om carusilaya namah 


63. Dear, agreeable, esteemed, beautiful, elegant (Charu) — the very principle (Shila) of that. 


30 TAUHINA AH: 


om svaprakaSaya namah 


64. Self-illumined (Sva Prakasha). 


While Aprakasha (Mercury 56) could refer to the subordinate or ordinary state of the 
intellect, this clearly refers to the superior nature of the Intelligence of the Self. Swa (or Sva) 
means ‘self’. 


While we generally think that we are doing meditation and everything else in our lives, 
the wise know that the cosmic intelligence is doing it. The first experience of this often comes 


in meditation when we stop trying and we find the whole thing going by itself. Initiation by a 


great master can often jump start this level of meditation. 


30 AyeTy Aa: 


om capalaya namah 


65. Unsteady (Chapala). 


We have seen how the Intelligence of the Self is rock steady but the intellect and the 
mind are constantly changing. Mercury can indicate both. We see Chapala in the financial and 
commodity markets, which Mercury rules, and everything the intellect manufactures other 


than the cognition of Truth. 


There is a state where both are self-evident: the silence and the fluctuations arising in 


it. The first has no location while the second is localized. It is strange but real. 


This name can also mean that which happens quickly or instantaneously. The Truth is 
always there but our recognition of it happens in a flash, as it were, even though that flash 
has no temporal or spatial location. This is why it is accessible from anywhere, anytime. In 
fact, prior to that flash, you can meditate on your own self-illumination because it is already 
existing. How do you do that? It is not a doing, it’s a kind of imagination without imagining 
anything. | can only give you this clue. If that does not help, try to find a great soul who can 
open that door for you so it becomes obvious. If that is not possible, persist with your prayers 
or spiritual practice. It is just a matter of time. Everything you need comes when the time is 


right. 
so forcast AG: 
om jitendriyaya namah 


66. One who has conquered (Jita) the senses (/ndriya). 


For this, one has to have one’s attention on something that is steady. Otherwise, the 


senses follow the unsteadiness. 


30 SSH AH: 


om udanmukhaya namah 


67. Facing (Mukha) North (Udan). 


This describes the orientation of the statue of Mercury in the shrine of the nine Grahas. 
It is said Lord Shiva sits facing South so we face North to honour Him. Mercury is associated 
with Lord Vishnu and Vishnu and Shiva are always honouring each other. Vishnu is the infinite 
expansion and Shiva is the infinite silence. There is no difference at all in truth. Shiva is facing 
South as the Guru in the form of Dakshinamurti. Those who face North are the ones sitting 
facing the teacher and thus the students (Shishya), indicated by Mercury. 


This also means facing upwards. Mercury is always looking for higher and higher 
truths, greater and greater prosperity. In the Bible, God says to man, ‘Be fruitful and multiply; 
fill the earth and subdue it.’ We live in an age where we have truly fulfilled that mandate. 
The Biosphere, which is ruled by Mercury, is being overwhelmed by our tendency to expand, 
which is also connected to Mercury. Some people do not want to discuss (Mercury) this at 
all. Most of us prefer not to discuss being fruitful. Others focus on the climate (Mercury). 
Some populations are declining but wherever there has been a surge of resources (Mercury) 
the population is expanding at a great pace and spreading out to other countries as the local 
resources become insufficient. Mercury ruled people would call this ‘interesting times’. If we 
listen more and insist less, then we will find a good way forward. 


xo Tawa AF: 
om makhasaktaya namah 


68. Whose sacrificial rites (Wakha) are uninterrupted (Asakta). 


Asakta implies success through continuous focus undisturbed by any mental distrac- 
tions. He is not concerned with the eventual outcome and is thus devoid of anxiety. Read as 
asakta rather than asakta, it means fond of religious and other festivals. It can also mean nat- 


urally festive, cheerful and vigorous. Whatever the task, he is devoted to it. 


xo ATM aT AH: 
om magadhadhipataye namah 


69. King (Adhipa) of Magadha (Southern Bihar). 


As it happens, the Gautama Buddha is associated with this area of India. Buddha 
attained enlightenment in Bodhgaya, which is approximately in the centre of greater Bihar or 


in the South of the current state of Bihar. In any case, it was within the Magadha kingdom. 
In addition, this area was the centre of education in the ancient world. The Vikramashila and 
Nalanda universities received students from as far away as Greece and Korea along with 
Japan, China, Indonesia, Persia, Turkey, etc. Nalanda is the most famous and is located about 
55 miles south east of Patna. It was a Buddhist center of learning from 427 CE to 1197 CE. 
The Buddha himself stayed at Nalanda several times. The great Jain savant, Mahavir, also 
stayed in Nalanda on several occasions and attained Moksha (liberation) there. Both Buddha 


and Mahavir were born as royal princes. 


In its heyday, Nalanda had 10,000 students in residence and 2,000 teachers. It had 
eight separate compounds and ten temples with lakes and parks. The library was a nine- 
storied building. There were many meditation halls and classrooms and many subjects were 
taught there including astronomy, astrology and medicine. It was sacked around 1193 though 


it continued for some time afterwards in a small way. 


On June 12, 2007, News Post India reported the funding by Japan of an international 
university in Nalanda in Bihar. The report goes on to say that ‘The proposed university will be 
fully residential, like the ancient seat of leaming at Nalanda. In the first phase of the project, 
seven schools with 46 foreign faculty members and over 400 Indian academics would come 
up ... The university will impart courses in science, philosophy and spiritualism along with 


other subjects. A renowned international scholar will be its chancellor.’” Nalanda University 


had its first academic session in September 2014. 


x0 BM AU: 


om haraye namah 


70. Yellow or greenish. These are the colours of Mercury. 


Hari is a name is applied to many gods and planets. It is primarily a name of Lord 
Vishnu and identifies Mercury with Him. It also means a ray of light, fire or the wind. It has 
many meanings including a parrot. This indicates the ability to learn and repeat teachings, a 
sign of a good intellect and clear mind. This colour is discussed under Sun 65. See also Sun 
85, Mercury 87 and Jupiter 55. 


Xo Giraaqcgqwasnaad AG: 


om saumyavatsarasamjataya namah 


71. Born (Samjata) in the year Saumya. 


There is a cycle of 60 years (Vatsara) each with a name. This likely is based on the 
junction of the cycle of Jupiter, 12 years, and Saturn, about 30 years, as 60 is divisible by 
both. Naturally, Mercury is born in the year called Saumya, this being his nature and lineage 
(Mercury 3). According to the text Jataka Parijata, being born in Saumya makes one ‘tranquil, 
universally popular, exceedingly wealthy and firm-minded.’ 


0 GAIA AH: 


om somapriyakaraya namah 


72. He creates (Kara) the dearness or tenderness (Priya) which arises through the flow of the 
nectar (Soma). 


Somapriya means beloved of Soma — the Moon. Budha is the son of the Moon through 
Tara (Mercury 13). Whatever the child’s attitude, his parents love him. This name tells us that 
he is creating this affection by his own qualities. It also tells us that the refined intellect is fa- 
cilitating the sweetness of life. 


Mercury helps our body be strong and healthy and keeps the hormonal system 
functioning well. He rules over the physical structure and provides medicines when needed. 
A healthy body supports a happy and tranquil mind. 


so Wed AH: 
om mahate namah 


73. The great one (Mahat). When Mercury is strong in achart, the person gains respect for his 


or her intelligence and abilities. 


30 THetaece Ay: 


om simhadhirudhaya namah 


74. Mounted (Adhirtidha) on a lion. 


Mercury’s vehicle is a lion but Simha can also mean an eminent person. If you want to 
see great intelligence, you have to seek a great personality. This name elaborates on the last 
(Mercury 73). The person is not just ‘great’, they are elevated onto a throne or high position. 
Kings used to try to collect the most intelligent and talented people to decorate their court. 


One of the reasons that the USA became so powerful is because many of the brightest peo- 


ple from all over the world emigrated there. 


Naturally, there is a deeper meaning. The awakened intellect also sits on a lion. At the 
junction of the intellect and the Pure Awareness, there is a roar as if Om is being continuously 
sounded. It is made of pure silence as the universe is made of space-time. This is the point 
from where the nature manifests everything so the Divine Mother Durga functions from here 
and so is said to be riding on a lion or a tiger. It is the place of the highest power. When the 
intelligence of the individual sits at this point it is said to be mounted on a lion, capable of 
anything. 


xo Gay AA: 
om sarvajhaya namah 


75. Knowing everything (Sarvajria). 


This is the fruit of the highest humility. That state is the true hero. 


xo TIRaaurs AU: 
om sikhivarnaya namah 


76. The colour (Varna) of a peacock (Shikhi) — beautiful and multi-coloured. 


Mercury represents variety, not just one colour but all the colours appear wonderful to 
the eye. The peacock displays his glory to attract his mate. Lord Krishna, who wore peacock 
feathers, dazzled the cowherd girls and the whole world. 


Xo Teeaohuy AG: 
om sivamkaraya namah 


77. Gausing (Kara) auspiciousness (Shivam) or fortunate occurrences. Giving happiness, 
prosperity and all kinds of good fortune. Also bliss and enlightenment. 


30 TaTFaUa Aq: 


om pitambaraya namah 


78. Yellow-clothed. 


Lord Vishnu is said to wear a yellow (Pita) cloth (Ambara). It alludes to the glorious 


effulgence of the Self. 


30 Hays AH: 


om pitavapuse namah 


79. Having a yellow, or golden (Pita) form (Vapus). 


His form is tinged with the glow of the celestial due to his internal surrender to truth. 
This is another way of describing a fully relaxed heart and brings the point that the relaxing 
of the heart is an endless process. Its end is a space beyond any individuality and is thus 
infinite. Rationally, a process cannot end in the infinite, which is why it is endless. However, 
quantum mechanics has shown that matter can suddenly fall into a ground state with infinite 
properties. For example, a loop of wire can become superconducting. This is a state where an 
electric current will flow forever. EEG studies suggest that such a state may arise in advanced 
meditators as the brain waves synchronize across the brain. This normally coincides with a 
subjective experience of unboundedness. In that condition, the body may be seen to glow. 


Vapus is a wonder. That state is pure golden divinity. Pita also means imbibed. The 
divine consciousness has been absorbed like water we drink and permeates everything. 


30 HTSoAcaoMiSwa AA: 


om pitacchatradhvajankitaya namah 


80. Marked or indicated (Ankita) by the emblem (Dhvaja) of a yellow (Pita) umbrella (Chhatra). 


The umbrella indicates high status. The yellow colour suggests a trace of Rajas or a 
tendency to action. Yellow light can be formed from an equal mix of red and green light so 
it comes between them in the rainbow. Green is the natural color of Mercury and very much 
relates to the earthiness of Virgo and the tranquility of Saumya (Mercury 3, 4). Red is the 
colour of Rajas and relates to the trading and unsteadiness (Chapala) aspects of Mercury. 
One pervading the other suggests a worldly wisdom, wisdom that moves in the field of life 


and action. 


so Gs ade AA: 


om khangacarmadharaya namah 


81. Garrying (Ohara) a sword (Khanga) and shield (Charma). 


One moving in the field of action has to cut and ward off attacks. The sword represents 
how knowledge cuts the root of ignorance, and the shield how it protects from all error. 
Knowledge could mean worldly learning in the sense that knowing how to drive a car makes 
one competent in the driver’s seat. It can also mean the state that arises when the thread of 


illusion is cut and one goes beyond all fear. 


x0 hlaenad AA: 
om karyakartre namah 


82. The doer or initiator (Kartr) of auspicious acts. 


Karya indicates Vedic rituals but suggests all works that nourish and uplift. More 
generally, Karya is all kinds of business or enterprise, duty and conduct. It can refer to legal 
matters so Mercury indicates lawyers. 


0 HeATENHa AH: 


om kalusaharakaya namah 


83. Destroying (Haraka) wickedness. Kalusha is idleness, darkness, cruelty and dirtiness. 
Mercury is busy, gentle and pure. 


Xo STAMIMAST A AA: 


om atreyagotrajaya namah 


84. Born (Ja) in the family (Gotra) of the Brahmarishi Air. 


Atri was a great Vedic seer. This is also a name of the Moon, the father of Mercury. 
They were both born into Atri’s lineage. Atri suggests one who is fully present. This state 
arises when one is not thinking of past, present and future. We typically imagine that the past 
is known and the future unknown. However, most of us remember little of the past and many 


have some intimations of the future. 


The ability to know all that was, is and will be is explained in the Siddhis chapter of the 


Yoga Sutras (3.16). By fully allowing the heart to relax so that the past, present and future are 
no longer mentally mixed, one comes to see all of them clearly. How far one can see depends 


on the degree of completeness of the relaxation. 


Xo IAA AAMT A: 


om atyantavinayaya namah 


85. Extremely polite (Atyanta Vinaya). Having the highest sense of decorum, courtesy, sense 


of propriety, good manners, reverence, modesty and humility. 


It is impossible to be polite if one has a strong sense of one’s difference from others, 
either due to an inflated or deflated ego. Both are products of ignorance. Knowing one’s self 
to be the Self of all makes one perfectly polite. Of course, one might still behave in any way 


according to the circumstances but it is naturally appropriate. 


30 Taga Aa: 


om viSvapavanaya namah 


86. Purifying (Pavana) everything (Vishva). 


Having purified oneself, one’s movement purifies everything else. That Pure Intelli- 
gence purifies everything. The central Nakshatra of Virgo is Hasta (the hand). This indicates 
those who use their hands for healing or who give good guidance. It is ruled by Savitr who is 
praised in the greatest of mantras, the Gayatri. In this mantra, He is asked to purify our intel- 


ligence. Mercury is exalted at 15 degrees of Virgo in Hasta. 


Xo FUAUSU HTM { Fa: 


om campeyapuspasamkasaya namah 


87. Shining (Samkasha) with Champeya flowers (Puspa). 


These greenish-yellow flowers are often used in offerings in the temples in India and 
are very pretty. They are the best offering in Budha’s Puja. The Charmpeya flower is the flower 
of the Rose-apple tree. As befits Mercury, the fruit has numerous important healing qualities. 
By making this flower part of the Puja, the sages ensured the trees would be grown and 


tended benefiting the health of the people. 


Xo ARONA AF: 


om caranaya namah 


88. A bard. 


Charana is an entertainer like an actor, dancer, bard or mimic. Typically, one that 
wanders (Charana) from place to place entertaining the people, as most entertainers have to 
do even today. It also refers to the celestial singers as well as wanderers in general especially 


pilgrims. It can indicate one who reads the scriptures, perhaps out loud to others and also a 
spy. 


Ko ATOVAONTT TH: 
om carubhusanaya namah 


89. Beautifully decorated (Bhusana). 


Charu can mean saffron as well as lovely and pleasing. Saints often wear saffron. Hav- 
ing a delightful well-groomed appearance is a clear sign of Mercury dominating in the chart. 


30 ANAT AA: 
om vitaragaya namah 


90. Free (Vita) from greediness (Raga). 


Mercury people also have to avoid greed, as it is a potential Achilles heel. For example, 
Mercury makes scientists. They are expected to advance human knowledge by producing 
objective results. However, their output can affect the bottom line of corporations so there are 
offers made to them that are not always in the public interest. On the other hand, scientists 
have to struggle hard to get research grants. This situation has led to a lot of unreliable results 


as has recently been exposed in the field of medicine. 


Mercury also rules business people. They also need to be honest. | just read about a 
factory that smelted lead and had pollution control equipment because of the law. However, 
it cost money to use it so they operated the factory all night without the filter to make 
more money. 700 people in the vicinity were sickened so the owners were arrested. Some 


people think making more money by cheating or endangering others is clever but that is only 


because their intelligence is corrupted. This kind of behaviour, which is only too common, is 


doing great damage to our world. 


The only kind of intelligence that has absolutely no defects is Pure Intelligence that 
comes from complete simplicity of awareness. Humility and intelligence are two sides of the 
same coin. However, whatever state we are in currently we can do our best to be honest and 


kind and at the same time maintain a regular spiritual practice. This is also a name of Mars. 


30 SAVaTa AG: 


om vitabhayaya namah 


91. Free (Vita) from fear (Bhaya). 


Fear is inherently false. We just have to know that deeply. A good leader knows when 
to retreat and does so calmly. Fear leads to panic and panic leads to destruction. Being free 
from fear is a great blessing. One may think that the accumulation of resources will remove 
one’s anxiety, but this does not prove true. The more we have, the more we have to do to 
protect it. Fearlessness is a state of consciousness, independent of anything external. This 
mantra is one way to cultivate that. 


30 Fay GAP AH: 


om viSuddhakanakaprabhaya namah 


92. Shining (Prabha) like purified gold (Visuddha Kanaka). 


This indicates a completely relaxed heart that has no issue with or judgment of any- 


thing. It simply shines. 


30 Sears AH: 


om bandhupriyaya namah 


93. Fond (Priya) of his relatives and friends. 


Bandhu are those to which one is bound. This is often a blessing but sometimes we 
strain against our boundaries. We feel limited by our family and anything that appears to 
bind us, but a pure heart simply loves giving in to any kind of boundary because its status is 


untouched by it. It simply expands even more to accommodate the apparent restriction. This 


is how we can love anyone however difficult they appear to be. 


30 Fpl AG: 

om bandhuyuktaya namah 

94. Enjoying the close ties (Yukta) with the family, spouse, parents and all kinds of kinsmen 
and colleagues (Bandhu). 


Mercury people tend to be family people. Again, we see why Mercury represents 
friends and relatives like uncles and aunts astrologically and why business flourishes through 


team work. 


0 SHS aa yaya >a: 


om banamandalasamsritaya namah 


95. Stationed (Samshrita) on the diagram (Mandala) of an arrow (Bana). 


Each Graha has a diagram, which is used in the Puja. An arrow points the direction and 
reaches the goal like a good intellect. Banamandala literally means a circle of arrows like the 
tendency to acquire all kinds of learning or a circle of light illuminating in all directions. 


Xo 3THUAMA EMT AG: 


om arkesananivasasthaya namah 


96. Stationed (Nivasastha) to the North East of the Sun (Arka). 


This tells us where to put the statue of Budha for Puja. The North East is the direction 
of ishana or God. This points to the divine nature of Budha and his association with Lord 
Vishnu. In Vastu, Vedic architecture, the sacred space is in the North East corner of our home 
or room. It is advised to keep that area free of heavy furniture and clutter. If possible, this 


should also apply to our property (land) as a whole. 


0 THMEANAMIATA AG: 


om tarkasastraviSaradaya namah 


97. Fully expert (Visharada) in the subject (Shastra) of logic (Tarka) and all the related texts. 


Tarka means logic, reasoning and philosophical speculation. A strong Mercury can 


make one brilliant in these intellectual areas. 


Xo YMA AA: 


om prasantaya namah 


98. Completely at peace (Prashdnta). 


As this follows 97, it shows that peace is the fruit of expertise in logic. Logic must 
provide a path to the ultimate truth. Reasoning, when fully developed, makes one truly honest 
as one cannot help but see through every one of one’s own self-deceptions. A mathematician 
who follows the rules of logic produces a proof that must be true. That result then becomes 
an established fact and allows others to build on it. If we are fully logical about our life we 
know that there is nothing that we really need to be at peace. This realization, leaves us in a 
state of peace. 


So UNTER AH: 
om pritisamyuktaya namah 


99. Utterly delighted (Priti). 


This is the inevitable result of being Prashanta (Mercury 98). Being fully attached 
(Samyukta) to pleasure is another lower level interpretation of the name. Priti can go as far as 


addiction but is more about love, fondness and ultimately pure delight. 
30 Tyee AA: 
om priyakrte namah 


100. Causing (Krt) fondness (Priya). 


A delighted heart loves all and is widely popular. 


xe TrasaUTy AH: 


om priyabhusanaya namah 


101. Fond of (Priya) ornaments, having delightful ornaments or decorated (Bhtisana) by one’s 


dearness. 


A person dominated by a strong Mercury can be very delightful. 


30 Heated AH: 


om medhavine namah 


102. In bliss. Having the mead of pure joy (Medhavin). 


An unafflicted Mercury brings happiness to those areas of the chart it rules just as Pure 
Intelligence causes the flow of Soma. This name also means a learned or clever person, one 
with the capability of being a teacher. Generally, people of high intelligence are expected to 
teach in some capacity. The word Medhd implies a kind of intoxication that comes from a pro- 


found intelligence rejoicing in its cognitions of reality. 


Truly intelligent people should not be depressed. That would come from some shadow 
over the light of intelligence. With some work, that shadow will surely be overcome. It is not 
right to think that one is not intelligent. A diamond can be caked in a lot of mud but if we pol- 
ish it, eventually it will start to shine and, if we persist, will truly sparkle. In India, they say take 
up some name of God and just keep repeating it until one finds a holy soul to give you further 
guidance. | believe the advice is the same in all the religions even if the prayers are varied. The 
early Christian church had a wonderful prayer, ‘Deus honorum omnium’, God honours all. It is 


understood that it was taught by St Peter to be given to clergy on their ordination®. 


30 Aaa AG: 


om madhavasaktaya namah 


103. Endlessly blissful. 


Madhava is joy and Asakta is an uninterrupted condition. This is one meaning based on 


asakta but it could also be read as asakta, devoted or attached. 


Madhava is the one born of the Madhu or divine nectar. It indicates a state of pure 
unbounded bliss. When that is touched, the intellect becomes asakta or devoted to that. By 


virtue of that, the state becomes continuous. It can never turn back and get lost in the worldly 


differences even though it may observe them now with much greater clarity. 


Madhava is a name of Lord Krishna. Here is a clue to how Mercury represents Lord 
Vishnu and thus Lord Rama and Lord Krishna in the birth chart. Mercury represents them 
by being their devotee. It’s presence in the fifth house or associated to the fifth house, for 
instance, gives us that devotional inclination. By meditating on Madhava, with time we can 
reach the blissful state. 


xo THe AH: 


om mithunadhipataye namah 


104. The ruler (Adhipati) of Gemini (Mithuna) Rashi. 


Mithuna means a pair or pairing. It is indicative of dual things and has conjugal energy. 
Mithuna people put their energy into Dharma or what they see is beneficial for the world. 


The intellect is all about analysis and duality. It flourishes in Gemini. Any planet in 
Gemini tends to increase intellectual capability. Gemini people tend to be interested in many 
things, they are always learning. They also tend to do many things at once. One side effect is 
a difficulty in making decisions. It is too easy to see the virtue in all the choices. 


om sudhiye namah 


105. Pious, clever, wise, sensible, religious (Sudhi). A learned person or teacher. 


This is how Mercury should be in Gemini. They help others understand and develop. 


0 HYUN AIA AA: 


om kanyarasipriyaya namah 


106. Fond of (Priya) Virgo (Kanya Rashi). 


He is the lord of Gemini but fond of Virgo. Thus Virgo becomes the place where 
Mercury is happiest. Technically, in Jyotisha, it is both his own sign, his MdlaTrikona and his 
exalted place. MulaTrikona is a place that is between own and exalted in the strength of 
placement. It is like the office. It is our place but is quite different from our home. At home, we 
relax. In the office we are busy with what we have to do. 


Being an earth sign, Virgo is best in helping Mercury to express his stability and 
rulership over the earth element. Gemini is excellent for intellectual pursuits. Amongst the 
Ascendants of the American Presidents for which we have reliable birth date and time, two 
have Gemini and seven have Virgo rising. In fact, Virgo is the most common rising sign the 
next being Aries found in four Presidents*. 


0 HAWG AH: 


om kamapradaya namah 


107. Giving (Prada) pleasure. 


Kama is conjugal pleasure and pleasures of the senses in general. Mithuna (Gemini) 
means a couple and is related to bedrooms and playgrounds while Virgo represents, among 


other places, those suitable for intercourse and gardens. 


Mars, the promoter of celibacy, naturally sees Mercury as an enemy being one who 
enjoys and promotes conjugal relations. Mercury is only indifferent towards Mars as he does 
not mind what Mars does. 


In the planetary court, Mercury represents princes and Mars, generals. Princes are 
notorious for their affairs and the king’s general naturally frowns on this as he knows that the 
defence of the kingdom needs discipline. He is also aware that when the prince becomes the 
king, he may be fired. Being the senior, the prince has no reason to trouble himself with en- 
mity towards the general. 


30 UAMAVATA AU: 


om ghanaphalasrayaya namah 


108. Receiving (Ashraya) steadfast (Ghana) results (Phaia). 


As the overlord of the earth element, Mercury can produce solid, auspicious and 
lasting results. When afflicted, outcomes may be unstable but when strong, they are very 
profound. As the significator of wealth, Mercury is especially strong in Taurus, the natural sec- 
ond house. 


In this mantra, there is a hint of the joy of those who take refuge (Ashraya) in the love 
of God, especially Lord Krishna. Lord Krishna has his Ascendant and Moon in Taurus and 
is called Ghana Shyama, emphasizing his firmness and profundity along with a dark blue or 


black, which is also associated with Budha. 


This name indicates that a clear intelligence is founded on a natural stability and abun- 


dance. May divine Budha bless you with that natural abundance and clarity of intelligence. 


so TT EH 


Om tat sat 


DO WwWowwvown NNYNNONONNNNN Ba BF jt? SBA srsara ses = 
nr woONnM -$- OO DAWAN DAF WONH HHH ODA N DAF WN =| CO 


OMON OAR WD a 


THE MANTRAS OF BUDHA IN TRANSLITERATION 


. om budhaya namah 
. om budharcitaya namah 


.om saumyaya namah 


om saumyacittaya namah 


om Ssubhapradaya namah 


.om drdhavrataya namah 

. om drdhaphalaya namah 

. om Srutijalaprabodhakaya namah 
.om satya'vasaya namah 

. om satyavacase namah 

. om Sreyasam pataye namah 

. om avyayaya namah 

. om somajaya namah 

. om sukhadaya namah 

.om Sfimate namah 

. om somavamSapradipakaya namah 
. om vedavide namah 

. om vedatattvajnaya namah 

. om vedantajianabhaskaraya namah 
.om vidyavicaksanaya namah 
.om viduse namah 

. om vidvatpritikaraya namah 

.om rjave namah 

. om viSvanukilasaficaraya namah 
. om viSesavinayanvitaya namah 
.om vividhagamasarajfiiaya namah 
. om viryavate namah 

. om vigatajvaraya namah 

. om trivargaphaladaya namah 
.om anantaya namah 

. om tridasadhipapijitaya namah 

. om buddhimate namah 

. om bahusastrajhaya namah 

. om baline namah 


. om bandhavimocakaya namah 


36. 
37. 
38. 
39. 
40. 
41. 
42. 
43. 
44. 
45. 
46. 
47. 
48. 
49. 
50. 
51. 
52. 
53. 
54. 
55. 
56. 
57. 
58. 
59. 
60. 
61. 
62. 
63. 
64. 
65. 
66. 
67. 
68. 
69. 
70. 
71. 
72. 
73. 


om vakrativakragamanaya namah 
om vasavaya namah 

om vasudhadhipaya namah 

om prasannavadanaya namah 

om vandyaya namah 

om varenyaya namah 

om vagvilaksanaya namah 

om satyavate namah 

om satyasamkalpaya namah 

om satyabandhave namah 

om sadadaraya namah 

om sarvarogaprasamanaya namah 
om sarvamrtyunivarakaya namah 
om vanijyanipunaya namah 

om vasyaya namah 

om vatangaya namah 

om vatarogahrte namah 

om sthilaya namah 

om sthairyagunadhyaksaya namah 
om sthilasuksmadikaranaya namah 
om aprakasaya namah 

om prakasatmane namah 

om ghanaya namah 

om gaganabhusanaya namah 

om vidhistutyaya namah 

om visalaksaya namah 

om vidvajjanamanoharaya namah 
om carusilaya namah 

om svaprakasaya namah 

om capalaya namah 

om jitendriyaya namah 

om udanmukhaya namah 

om makhasaktaya namah 

om magadhadhipataye namah 
om haraye namah 

om saumyavatsarasamjataya namah 
om somapriyakaraya namah 


om mahate namah 


74. 
15. 
76. 
77. 
78. 
79. 
80. 
81. 
82. 
83. 
84. 
85. 
86. 
87. 
88. 
89. 
90. 
91. 
92. 
93. 
94. 
95. 
96. 
97. 
98. 
99. 
100. 
101. 
102. 
103. 
104. 
105. 
106. 
107. 
108. 


om simhadhirudhaya namah 

om sarvajnaya namah 

om Sikhivarnaya namah 

om Sivamkaraya namah 

om pitambaraya namah 

om pitavapuse namah 

om pitacchatradhvajankitaya namah 
om khangacarmadharaya namah 
om karyakartre namah 

om kalusaharakaya namah 

om atreyagotrajaya namah 

om atyantavinayaya namah 

om visvapavanaya namah 

om campeyapuspasamkasaya namah 
om caranaya namah 

om carubhusanaya namah 

om vitaragaya namah 

om vitabhayaya namah 

om visuddhakanakaprabhaya namah 
om bandhupriyaya namah 

om bandhuyuktaya namah 

om banamandalasamsritaya namah 
om arkesananivasasthaya namah 
om tarkasastravisaradaya namah 
om prasantaya namah 

om pritisamyuktaya namah 

om priyakrte namah 

om priyabhisanaya namah 

om medhavine namah 

om madhavasaktaya namah 

om mithunadhipataye namah 

om sudhiye namah 

om kanyarasipriyaya namah 

om kamapradaya namah 


om ghanaphalasrayaya namah 


SOURCES AND ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS 


While these lists are well Known to traditional astrologers in India, | only found two 
places where they had been printed. | am thus indebted to Dr Mrs Saraswathy and Prof. B. A. 
Eeswaran for publishing a Sanskrit text of the names of the Grahas in their book 
NavaGrahas, albeit without translation and source, and Prof. S.K. Ramachandra Rao for his 
outstanding compendium The NavaGraha Kosha, which includes another set. Prof. Rao 
informed me that his work was based on a medieval text. Regretfully Prof. Rao has passed 
away. These two sources have some differences. Where | felt that both versions of a name 
had merit, | included both under the same number. 


| am most grateful to Pandit UmaShankar Jois, priest of the Mukambika temple, Kollur, 
Karnataka, India, for his help in the early stages of this work. Regretfully, he has now passed 
away. Many other pundits gave me their learned opinion on particular names and | thank them 
all. My Jyotish Guru, Pandit Sanjay Rath, has been a great inspiration. 


Two great artists have kindly allowed me to showcase their beautiful work. Pieter 
Weltevrede, acclaimed Dutch master painter, did all the colour work. The drawings were 
done by the highly talented Jane Adams. Find out more about them in the Section ‘The 
Artists’. 


Many people helped me with editing and proofreading and | thank them all. Especially, 
| want to thank my wife Susie for her considerable assistance and all my family for their love 
and support. 


ABOUT THE AUTHOR 


Andrew Foss has a PhD in Computing Science from the University of Alberta and is 
also an Oxford University Physics graduate with publications in Nature and other leading sci- 
entific journals. He is the author of the book High-Dimensional Data Mining. He enjoys a deep 
love of music, art and poetry and has more than 30 years experience studying and teaching 
the Vedic wisdom around the world. He is the Founding President of the British Association of 
Vedic Astrology, Editor of the BAVA Journal Gochara and is a Certified Jaimini Scholar and 
Jyotish Pandit, the highest professional certifications in Vedic Astrology involving nine years 
of continuous study. He has developed the unique, easy and powerful software Shri Jyoti 
Star that has become the first choice amongst the leading Vedic Astrologers around the 
world. Andrew is married and lives with his family in Virginia, USA. 


SECRETS OF VIMSHOTTARI DASHA 


As a bonus | have decided to publish some unique secrets about Vedic Astrology in 
the printed version of this book, which will also have the mantras of all nine planets. Please 
visit YogaOfThePlanets.com for more information. 


For 33 years, |, like everyone else who studies Jyotisha, wondered about the origin of 
the lengths of the Vimshottari Dashas. | could never find a way into this mystery. Nowhere in 
the literature, ancient or modern, can even a satisfactory hint be found. Then, on July 7, 2015, 
| saw on the web at least a partial derivation of the sequence of lords. It relied on knowing the 
Dasha cycle lengths. At the end, the author appealed for someone to find a solution to the 
problem of deriving the length of the cycles. The thought came, ‘let’s give it a shot’. 


| pulled out a fresh sheet of paper and started writing down equations that might help. 
Bit by bit the key principles unfolded themselves. It did not take long to realize that | had an 
answer and it just required some polishing. In the process, some wonderful insights 
appeared as well as a profound advance in the understanding of the Tara Bala, which is most 
important for interpreting the Dasha. | have not found this written anywhere. Therefore, both 
these re-markable and interesting secrets were given to me and | am sharing them with you. 


Notes 


The Atmakaraka is the soul planet. It is the Graha that has advanced furthest in its zodiacal sign. Rahu is 
naturally retrograde, so it is an exception being measured from the end of the sign. Ketu is not considered as it 
represents the freedom of the soul, not its embodiment. 


The Catholic Encyclopedia. 


American Presidents and British Monarchs, a Comparative Research Study. Steve Hubbail. Gochara, 6 (2), 
pp32-42, 2004. 


