YOGA OF THE 
PLANETS 


THEIR MANTRAS AND PHILOSOPHY 


Andrew Foss, PhD 


Bonus: Secrets of Vimshottari Dasha 


Artwork by Pieter Weltefrede 


ShriSource Publications 
Virginia, USA 


‘TABLE OF CONTENTS 


DOGG AUIOM sxssfecssssscssscssnssscacsctetiescvicass ces ssevssvcbbwistlonsodasvecstansoadbicadstduussbaiytoncossipebandbesSoasiorsti 1 
Sources and Acknowledgements .u.......ssssssssssssensccssssscvsecssccsssssssessessessesseessscescssssssseoes 2 
How this Book will Help YOu ......ccsssssssssssssssccsssseesessssnsesssssnsessssuessssssseesseessusesssnnesecess 3 
Find your Personal Mantras ...sssssssssssscccsssssesnsecsssonsnsessossssssssssvossssssssuascsssseeecssasseess 5 
THE. JOULES svssssocssscivs sctusvoscsazncconssatznsnsssnssedssnessbondécosbedrasictasndiasiusssbvsgestdnenbeottoataiusoevaivasvhbes 10 
Notes on Pronounciation from the Transliteration.......ssscsssssssssssssessssssseessees 14 
Hymn in Honour of the Planets ....sccsssssssssssssessessecssessssenssosssscssssssvecessssnssssensesseessees 15 
SUT yay Ce SUM ss ccszessinstitesssteceedechssts cetttsslesuseausssessods 0s cSb luvin dasthsbacobantsdedasates she dusipsustosnStabees 17 


Chandra; THE MOO mi csccsccscsaisccssssssonvseassesnesnvssssosionssssssessanendoassnddsseaseccbetnondessussissisivostoctored 69 
Marr's; Main Ball ats sisgcasee is cacoastest suse edt scctccststcnnteseccpetoapettanoses dais entacotsuesttossantbvens 119 
ME rcuirry,  Btrhna. fi ciscsccssssicasonsncisatascsnsesncateno set tapozeebsiensbotusthansbene Scat ech iottasncisesbecocetdton 165 
Jupiter, Brhaspati OF GUrU ..ssessssssssessssssssssssvseccssecssecsscssesesssnsssonsssessessssnn seasGcutiateds 209 
Vem is; SHU ke abeisess tices echsds tsdacersasieetecataseinsscrsted Oectenscez ataeeoeasdhver anes bgeceesoee oucloctontien eee 267 
SACU: SHAM A sassssascastccossssicocsbnsscerwonscsnsensnobveceosensceecebusossondasactbosssvesefsiseniechnbosbebeenissicedaniivi 315 
Rahu, the North NOde vcssassesssssssevessessssusescssseesssssssesscessssssssssesesecsssssseesssssesseessssees 363 
Ketu, the: South NOC sicseccccsscsseccscescssccsccesssscucecsasccessovsaischoscheiossoyeszeustnsacsassdosdiosevcasieaye 419 
The Mantras of Surya in Devanagari... .....sssssssssssescsssssssssessnssesonsesssssssssessesesssnas 463 
The Mantras of Surya in Transliteration. ssssssssssssscssssseesssssessessssssssesssssees 465 
The Mantras of Chandra in Devanagari ...sscsssessssssssossssssssecsssssssesseseesseessssssnes 466 
The Mantras of Chandra in Transliteration ......ssssssssesessssssuessssssscsensssseseee 468 
The Mantras of Mangala in Devanagari... sesssssscsessssessssssnseessecesssessnenetsessttsnss 470 
The Mantras of Mangala in Transliteration winssssssssssccsssssseessssescsessessnseessese 472 


The Mantras of Budha in Devanagari 


The Mantras of Budha in Transliteration ............sscsssscssessvssesssessseeceseesnssseeseeeess 476 
The Mantras of Brhaspati ink Devanagari oo. sssessessssecsestsussesestessssstsssseestssseses 477 


The Mantras of Brhaspati in Transliteration... sesssssssesscsssesssescccssnessessssees 479 


vi Yoga of the Planets 


The Mantras of Shukra in Devanagari ...ccseseescsesrsssmesensccsnnseeecssnsesensen 4B 
The Mantras of Shukra in Transliteration.......ccscssssscssseeecsssssscesns 4B3 
The Mantras of Shani in Devanagari........ssssecsssssscccnsesescessneseseessssscesatensnneesesess FOO 
The Mantras of Shani in Transliteration... sesssssecsnsesssssesimsssseinseatessenn FO7 
The Mantras of Rahu in Devanagari............... 488 
490 


The Mantras of Ketu in Devanagari ........necsssssscsssssesscssessssssssesessssssssssssseseeess 492 


The Mantras of Rahu in Transliteration....... 


The Mantras of Ketu in Transliteration .......csscccssssssssssssascsssstesccssseserecsssssesees 494 
Advanced Mantra Selection from the Astrological Chart .............cssssssssses 496 
Secrets of Virmshottari Dasha ...cuccssssssssssessscssessussssscssscssesscssenssnsssesseresssesees DOO 


Dedication 1 


DEDICATION 


1 dedicate this book to my late parents, Group Captain Patrick 
Shaw Foss, OBE, and Mrs Margaret Scott Foss who looked after us with 
every care and kindness, They set a standard of selfless dedication to a 
higher cause, which ! have tried to follow in my life. 


2 Yoga of the Planets 


SOURCES AND ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS 


While these lists of mantras are well known to traditional 
astrologers in India, ] only found two places where they had been printed, 
| am thus indebted to Dr Mrs Saraswathy and Prof. B. A. Eeswaran for 
publishing a Sanskrit text of the names of the Grahas in their book 
NavaGrahas, albeit without translation and source reference, and Prof. 
S.K. Ramachandra Rao for his outstanding compendium The NavaGraha 
Kosha, which includes another set. Prof. Rao informed me that his work 
was based on a medieval text. Regretfully Prof. Rao has passed away. 
These two sources have some differences. In a few places, where | felt 
that both versions of a name were of particular interest, | included both 
under the same number. 


| am most grateful to Pandit UmaShankar Jois, priest of the 
Mukambika temple, Kollur, Karnataka, India, for his help in the early 
stages of this work. Regretfully, he has now passed away. Many other 
pandits gave me their learned opinion on particular names and I thank 
them all. My Jyotish Guru, Pandit Sanjay Rath, has been a great 
inspiration. 


The colour work on the cover and the artwork of the Grahas 
inside was done by Picter Weltevrede. He is recognized and supported 
by the Dutch government as a Master Artist and is acclaimed 
internationally with hundreds of exquisite paintings of Gods and 
Goddesses, Yantras and Mandalas. He studied with the preat master 
Harish Johari and Johari's art teacher, Master Chandra Bal, and Suresh 
Johari. The wash painting technique used by Pieter has both watercolor 
and tempera. This involves the colors of each painting being largely 
washed off and repainted several times before it is considered done. That 
creates a very special effect, where the light softly radiates from within 
the deity or yantra. He tours annually in India, Europe and the USA 
exhibiting his art and giving painting workshops. ! 


Many people helped me with editing and proofreading and [ 
thank them all. Especially, | want to thank my wife Susie for her 
considerable assistance and all my family for their love and support. 


! Please visit https://www.facebook.com/PieterWeltevredeSacredArtist. 


How this Book will Help You 3 


HOW THIS BOOK WILL HELP YOU 


This book has many uses. In itself, it is a meditation. You can 
enjoy and benefit without any special prior knowledge. There are insights 
into astrology but the main focus is enlightening the consciousness and 
providing a rebalancing of the energies represented by the planets. This 
will happen automatically as one reads the mantras and _ their 
commentaries. 


This book contains the traditional lists of 108 mantras for each of 
the nine Vedic planets. Each mantra is a descriptive name converted to a 
salutation and used for meditation or chanting. For example ‘om santaya 
namah’ means ‘salutations to the peaceful one’ and is based on the name 
§anta (shaanta) which means peaceful. Reciting the mantra develops 
understanding for the quality embodied in the name and can help mental 
clarity and spiritual development. In the translation, the first mantra of 
each planet is fully translated. After that, just the names are transjated 
leaving ‘Salutations to’ understood. 


The Vedic plancts are normally listed in the order of the days of 
the week. They are the Sun, the Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus and 
Saturn plus the two eclipse points. These are the Lunar nodes called Rahu 
(the North node) and Ketu (the South node). The Vedic ‘planets’ are often 
referred to as ‘Grahas’, the Sanskrit word which means ‘graspers’, as they 
appear to guide and control our experiences. 


For the first time, these mantras are listed with translation and 
commentary. Even if you only read the commentaries, you will get some 
of the benefit. If the planet is weak or afflicted in your life, then this acts 
as aremedy. If it is already strong, this helps to enliven its full value. 


A common way of using these mantras is to recite the set of 108 
for the planet one chooses?. For example, one could recite the mantras of 
the Sun on Sunday mornings. The next chapter, Find your Personal 
Mantras, will explain how to go beyond this and find out which of the 
mantras will especially enliven your personal chart. A few mantras have 
more challenging meanings, for example, several in the Rahu Chapter. 


2 Audio of this is being provided separately, please visit YopaOfThePlanets.com 
far more information. 


4 Yoga of the Planets 


These are best contemplated rather than being used individually for 
repetition. If any mantra appeals to you, it can be just as useful as the 
ones calculated using the next chapter. Some are just particularly sweet. 


If chanting one or a set of mantras, I suggest you start with 
om gam ganapataye namah 
to invoke the pure state of mind and end with 
om Santih Santih Santih 


meaning 'Om peace, peace, peace’. 


Find your Personal Mantras 5 


FIND YOUR PERSONAL MANTRAS 


A great secret being released with this book is how to find the 
best mantras for you from the list of 108. This secret has been closely 
kept by a few Indian Astrologers and | am indebted to my teacher, Pandit 
Sanjay Rath, for enlightening me about this. 


It is very simple. The reason there are 108 mantras for the 
planets as well as such lists for the deities is that the zodiac is naturally 
divided into 108 segments. 108 is said to be the number of Shree, the 
Goddess of prosperity. Astrologically, it is our whole world. For example, 
the name of a newborn child is often given based on the Moon’s place in 
these divisions. 


It is not only the Moon that is important. The Sun is very 
important and all the other planets of Vedic Astrology can be key. It all 
depends on one's chart. Whatever the chart, doing the mantra for the 
position of a planet can be very beneficial. It will resonate with us and 
thus has extra energy. 


There are a number of approaches for finding a powerful mantra 
for you or for a client, student or friend. The first I describe requires no 
astrology and the others are connected to the actual positions of the 
planets. For those with an interest in Vedic Astrology, this can become 
quite detailed as we drill down on the relationship between different 
planets. Therefore, a chapter on more advanced applications can be found 
later in the book. Here, we give the easy astrological applications. 


However you arrive at a mantra, please pay attention to the 
section Caveat near the end of this chapter. 


METHOD ONE, THE RANDOM NUMBER 


Picking a random number may sound an unlikely idea but it is 
something that many prognostic systems employ, including the Vedic 
Astrology method of answering questions. This technique often gives 
clear insights. If you are calm and quietly focused, then nature talks to 
you and one way of facilitating this is picking a number. There are really 
two situations, finding a number for oneself and finding one for another, 


6 Yoga of the Planets 


For example, if you are a Yoga teacher whose student wants a mantra or 
someone sharing a mantra with a friend. 


Suppose you want a random number for yourself and do not 
want to imagine a number out of 108. You can get three single digit 
numbers by picking numbers you see. One way is to open a book and take 
the final digit of the page number and do this three times. For example, 
suppose you open a book at random three times and get pages 21, 143 
and 79. Pick the final digits which would be 1, 3 and 9. Write down these 
digits to form a number 139 and adjust to the desired range by 
subtracting 108. In this example, 139 —- 108 = 31. Of course, you can use 
many alternate ways of getting a number. 


My astrological software Shri Jyoti Star? gives a random number. 
In the Data Entry screen, click ‘Enter Number’. If you are asked about 
‘Replacing the current chart...’ click Yes or No. In the next screen, make 
sure the Range is set to 108 and you will see a random number is given to 
you. 


If there is another person involved, one can ask them for a 
number. This often works. What we want isa number between 1 and 108. 
if the person gives us a number larger than 108, we can keep subtracting 
108 until we get a number in the desired range. For example, if they say 
250, then subtracting 108 twice (216) gives 34. However, we may feel 
that the person is interpreting our answer to mean a single digit number 
only or perhaps knows the system we are using too well and may be 
biased towards certain numbers. Then we can ask for three single digit 
numbers as in the method described just above but we can write them 
down in reverse order. This is just a suggestion, in reality we can use any 
scheme that we like. 


A separate app for this book is planned, which will do both 
random number and astrological calculations (information will be posted 
on YoxaOfThePlanets.com). 


METHOD Two, USING THE ASTROLOGICAL CHART 


The following is how to find the number for your natal Sun (or 
any planet). First. find out the sidereal position from any software, for 
example Shri Jyoti Star. In the current version 7, it will also give you the 
mantra number next to the planet glyphs in charts. The planned app for 
this book will also give the number (see YogaOQfThePlanets.com) but it is 


3 VedicSoftware.com 


Find your Fersonal Mantras 7 


easy to do it by hand if one has the planet position. Examples are given 
below. 


In the following table, look up the planet position and find the 
number. For example, suppose the planet is at Virgo 5 degrees. 5° is 
between 3°20’ and 6°40’ so look in the second column of numbers under 
6°40’ in the row for Virgo. You will find the number 47. Then look in the 
book for the mantra numbered 47. In the main text, the number is given 
at the start of the commentary, after the mantra. In the lists at the end, 
the mantra follows the number. For the Sun, the mantra for 47 is ‘om 
santaya namah’, which means the peaceful one. 


Degrees up to 


Sign 3° 23° | 26° | 30° 
20’ 20’ | 40’ 

Aries 1 7 8 9 

Taurus 10 16 |17 18 

Gemini 25 126 27 

Cancer 34 35 36 


Leo 


Virgo 


Libra 55 56 
Scorpio 


Sagittarius 


82 83 84 


Capricorn 
Aquarius 91 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 


Pisces 100 101 102 103 104 105 106 107 108 


This is the simplest application of the rule where the number is 
counted from the start of the zodiac. This can be called ‘God’s view’ as the 


8 Yoga of the Planets 


beginning of the zodiac is the beginning of the chart from the point of 
view of the Creator. Thus, it is very powerful. However, there are other 
views. There is the count from the Moon, which gives the social or 
personal view. There is the count from the Sun, which is like the view 
from our soul. Another important count is from the Ascendant, which 
relates to the body and health. Reciting the mantra(s) we get from this 
count may help our health but if one feels sick one should always consult 
a medical professional. There is more about health applications in the 
chapter Advanced Mantra Selection from the Astrological Chart. 


We can make a count from any of the planets as the starting 
point. In Jyotisha (Vedic Astrology) there are systems of planetary cycles 
(periods), especially the famous Vimshottari Dasha system. All Vedic 
Astrology software like Shri Jyoti Star give these cycles too. Even some 
Western Astrology software or online software give them. For example, 
you might be running a Jupiter Sun cycle and subcycle. That means you 
are in the major cycle of Jupiter and the minor cycle of the Sun (called a 
Bhukti). In this example, one can count from Jupiter to the Sun and use 
the mantra from the Sun list. 


For example, let us find the mantra for the Sun from the 
perspective of the Moon. Let us suppose the Moon is at 8°10’ Leo and the 
Sun is at 4°30’ Sagittarius. First find the number for the Moon from the 
table as we did above, which is 39, and then the number for the Sun from 
the table which is 74, as 4°30’ is greater than 3°20’ and less than 6°40’. 
Now subtract 39 from 74 and add 1, which gives you 36. Then find 
mantra 36in the mantra list for the Sun. We add 1 because if both planets 
have the same number, the answer has to be 1. There is no mantra for 
zero. Ifthe subtraction gives a negative value, just add 108 tothe result. 


Now you know how to find key mantras for your chart in general 
and for your Dasha cycles. I recommend you start with ‘God’s view’ as this 
can be considered the most important. If you are a serious student of 
Vedic Astrology, you can also read the chapter on Advanced Mantra 
Selection near the end of the book. Please note the section Caveat below. 


THE ASTROLOGICAL HOUSES 


In various places in this book you will find reference to houses or 
places from some important personal markers such as the Ascendant or 
the Moon. The simplest and traditional way of understanding this is in 
terms of the 12 signs of the zodiac: Aries, Taurus, etc. If the Moon is in 
Taurus, then Taurus is the first house or place from the Moon. Gemini is 
the second and so on until we get to Aries which is the twelfth. One only 


Find your Personal Mantras 9 


has to count round by signs. The Ascendant is in the sign rising on the 
Eastern horizon at the time of birth. 


CAVEAT 


Generally, reciting mantras is safe and healthy. However, as a 
rule, those with any mental health issues should only do mantras under 
expert supervision. If one is attending a mental health practitioner, 
consult them before starting any mantra practice. 


The mantras of the more malefic planets, such as Mars, Saturn, 
Rahu and Ketu, naturally contain some names, which describe the more 
challenging side of the Graha. These help us to understand certain 
behaviours and this can be remedial. For these names, it may be better to 
contemplate the deeper meanings rather than simply repeating them. For 
example, Rahu is said to be cruel. This association with cruelty arises out 
of fear. Fear is deeply seated in survival issues. 


Contemplating the mantra may help one get in touch with the 
source of the problem, so it can be alleviated. Loving an injured heart can 
be the basis of real change. This applies to our self or another. | do not 
recommend using the more challenging names as regular practice 
mantras and I certainly do not recommend you ask another person to do 
them even if they come up when you do the calculations described in this 
chapter. On the other hand, | have found listening to the sets of 108 
names has been beneficial for my clients. 


10 Yoga of the Planets 


THE JOURNLY 


On March 3", 1995S, I entered the sacred and tranquil valley 
surrounding the small village of Kollur. | had fostered a desire to visit 
here for eight years since a friend told me about it. | did not know why | 
felt this connection but when I was finally able to travel to India | set my 
heart on reaching that place. It seemed very special and | must have 
feared going straight there in case my energy was unprepared. | chose to 
go first to Tamil Nadu on the opposite coast and to the great temple of 
Rameshvaram. 


Rameshvaram is on the spit of land opposite Sri Lanka. This is 
the place Shri Rama worshipped Lord Shiva before launching his 
campaign to recover his wife Sita from the demon king. To cross the 
ocean, his army of monkeys and bears built a bridge or causeway across 
the ocean. This was many thousands of years ago but, amazingly, the 
remains of a causeway to Sri Lanka are still visible in satellite photos. 
According to temple records, Shri Rama’s bridge was passable being 
completely above the sea until destroyed bya cyclone in 1480 AD. 


From Rameshvaram, | visited the great temple of Minakshi and 
thence to the very tip of India, Kanyakumari. This place has remarkable 
temples especially that of the Virgin Goddess. I rose and went at 3:30 am 
and was almost alone in witnessing the bathing of the Goddess in milk. [t 
was the Full Moon day. A little later I did homage to the shrine for the 
Navagraha and received a distinct blessing. Prior to that I had done some 
study of Jyotisha but had received no authority from any Guru or other 
source to study and practice. This was a most unexpected Grace. 


From Kanyakumari, | travelled up the Kerala coast visiting 
Ashrams and temples until | came to Kollur. [t was a great moment, 
though for no obvious reason at all. Kollur is home to the famous temple 
of Devi Mookambika, the Goddess of the mouth. It is said she grants 
blessings related to the voice and the arts. Most evenings, artists from all 
over India come to perform before her. They sing, dance and play 
instruments. 


At the time! knew nothing about this temple. I did not know that 
astrologers from all over South India come here to pray and do penance 
for Vak Siddhi, the power that whatever one says proves true. After all, 
people expcct an astrologer to have this power. While, in rare cases, it is 


The Journey 11 


possible that a person is born with this, generally it only arises after long 
and sincere spiritual practice. This is why Vedic Astrology, Jyotisha, is 
primarily a spiritual discipline and one should seek a guru or gurus to 
guide one’s spiritual and intellectual development. 


The essence of success in an earthly endeavour is the Grace of 
the Goddess and for each aspirant there is some form that appeals to him 
or her and which can grant success. There are rules for finding this form 
but ultimately it is very personal. I should make it clear that talk of gods 
and goddesses does not conflict with the monotheistic view because the 
Vedic view is that the One takes whatever form we desire or can be 
approached as purely formless if that is our path. 


The worship of the Goddess in India is, at its peak, related to the 
Shri Vidya and the Shri Chakra. The great sage and teacher Adi 
Shankaracharya installed a Shri Chakra under the deity in the 
Mookambika temple. After some time in Kollur, | came to know that he 
also installed a Shri Chakra at the top of the highest mountain nearby 
where the root shrine of the Goddess is to be found. Part of the pilgrimage 
is to walk to the top of this mountain. It is about 12 miles or one can take 
the bus part of the way and walk the last 3-4 hours. | had many 
extraordinary experiences on this mountain as well as in the temple, 
which | will write about elsewhere. 


While I was staying at the temple, somehow | conceived of this 
book. It seemed to me that the sets of 108 names of the Grahas (planets) 
were important and used by astrologers but I could find no trace of a 
translation or commentary. So I started making notes. When [ could not 
understand a word, | discussed it with my friend UmaShankar Jois who is 
one of the distinguished priests at the temple. He studied Jyotisha with a 
great Guru though he passed away before my friend’s studies were 
complete. UmaShankar is a great expert in the remedial measures and he 
felt | had some knowledge on the analysis of charts so we spent a lot of 
time discussing Jyotisha together. 


I stayed at Kollur for more than 40 days, as is the custom, and 
then went for Shivaratri in Varanasi. This is the greatest festival for Lord 
Shiva and Varanasi is considered the city of Shiva, and is one of the most 
profound places to celebrate it. As | was about to leave Kollur, | went to 
the temple to take Her leave to go. The priests put me at the front during 
the Arti (ritual waving of lights before the shrine), which is the peak of 
the evening worship. Then | got on the bus to go to Bangalore where | 
could catch a train for the North. 


As it happened, the conductor of this bus was part of a ring of 
thieves who stole the luggage of innocents like me. I arrived in Bangalore 


12 Yoga of the Planets 


without anything, all my notes were gone. Still | managed to continue my 
journey and reached Varanasi, the great city of Shiva, at 4 am on 
Shivaratri. | washed and went straight to the temple having no luggage to 
concern me. Standing in the queue | noticed that | was the only male 
wearing traditional clothing. There was a guard on the door and they 
often turn ‘tourists’ away. He Jooked me over for a while and then 
enthusiastically said ‘om namah Sivaya’ and waived me in. 


The next year, I returned to Kollur with another notebook. } 
started by writing down all that | remembered and naturally found that 
my understanding had improved over the year and quickly was ahead of 
my previous work. When | left Kollur after another 40+ days { had just a 
few names which I could not decipher. | visited Prof. Ramachandra Rao in 
Bangalore who was once of the two people that | found who had published 
the lists of the names. We had an interesting discussion. He was a very 
great scholar. Unfortunately, he has now passed away, Travelling through 
India | met many good scholars who kindly gave me their opinions so the 
meanings became clear. Since then, from time to time | wrote my small 
commentary. It reflects many stages in my own spiritual life. | hope you 
enjoy it. 


In 2007, I visited a small house a few miles north of the great 
Konark temple. This temple, though now partially ruined, was perhaps 
India’s greatest temple to the Sun god. It is built like a giant chariot. Some 
of the carvings are now in the British Museum including the large 
carvings of the nine Grahas (planets). The Konark temple stands near the 
beach in the North Eastern part of India’s V shape so is one of the first 
places to see the rays of the rising Sun. Konark is some 20 miles north of 
Puri where the great Jagannatha temple of Lord Krishna is to be found 
administered by the Shankaracharya of the East. He is charged with 
maintaining the Rig Veda, accepted as humanity's oldest recorded 
wisdom text. 


About 500 years ago, the great spiritual teacher Chaitanya 
Mahaprabhu resided here and the lineages derived from him are still very 
widespread today, such as ISKCON. He had five ‘sakhas’ or friends, as they 
were Called, one of which was Swami Achyutananda. The Swami was 
initiated by the great teacher at an early age and went on to become the. 
King’s astrologer, a noted author of over 200 books and an enlightened 
sage. He also founded 13 schools in the region. These taught various 
sciences and several were dedicated to Jyotisha. When he was leaving his 
body, he promised to remain in a ‘shunya’ form. Shunya means the void 
and it is a term he explained in great depth in one of his books. It does not 
refer to mere nothingness but toa profound state of Being. 


The fourney 13 


He kept his promise and even today you can go and consult him. 
That is where | was going. There is a small shrine and next to it are the 
quarters of a pandit who keeps and interprets a set of copper plates 
(tamra poti). These plates only contain some drawings like the shape of a 
lotus, but when you enter there with a question in your mind, the answer 
appears written in ancient Odia (the local language 500 years ago) and 
the pandit reads them for you. If you look, you can actually see the 
writing appear. | went there with several friends, all of whom were 
students of Pandit Sanjay Rath who is the last remaining person carrying 
the knowledge of the Jyotisha schools founded by the Swami. In effect, we 
had joined his lineage. The answers we got were remarkably pertinent 
and insightful. We were all given mantras. | later talked to a colleague 
who has taken over 40 people there and he said no one had ever been 
given a mantra. 


The Swami told me to finish my book. | noticed that when | did 
the mantra, | would work more on this text. | hope he forgives me for the 
long time spent in fulfilling his instruction but perhaps | or the time was 
not ripe before now. This year (2015) marks the 20* year since I started 
and only this year did 1 make the important discovery about the 
Vimshottari Dasha which is published in this book. In the derivation of 
the Vimshottari Dasha cycles or periods, the great significance of 20 years 
is revealed. 


The name of the Sun temple is from Kona + Arka. Arka is a name 
of the Sun and Kona means trine. In Jyotisha, this indicates the Dharma 
Trikona, the sustainer of life, which | have written about in many places 
in this book and is so important in the interpretation of the Vimshottari 
Dasha. 


14 Yoga of the Planets 


NOTES ON PRONOUNCIATION FROM THE 
TRANSLITERATION 


In the transliteration, there are marks called diacriticals that aid 
correct pronunciation. 


{n Sanskrit there are long and short syllables. The long ones are 
to be sounded for twice as long as the short ones, even longer is OK. 
Vowels with a line over them like ‘a’ and double vowels like ‘ai’ are all 
long. *h’ (h with a dot under it) is pronounced like ‘ah’, that is with 
aspiration. [t is often pronounced as ‘ahah’ but this is not recommended 
for mantras as it effectively adds another syllable and the syllable count 
of a mantra is important. ‘Ss’ with an acute accent is like ‘sh’. For example, 
‘Sukrah’ is pronounced ‘shukrah’. 


Consonants or sibilants with a dot under them like t or 5 are 
retroflex. For example, t is pronounced as the 't’ in Tom. You curl your 
tongue back and strike your palate. ‘t' on the other hand isa dental sound. 
‘th’ is ‘t’ with some aspiration as are all the other syllables that have an ‘h’ 
like ‘bh’, ‘dh’ and ‘gh’. Youjust blow a little when saying the consonant. 


The ‘r’ such as in ‘brhat’ is a vowel in Sanskrit pronounced like 
the ‘ry’ in jewelry. ‘c’ is pronounced as ‘ch’, as in ‘change’. In the 
commentary, | usually use ‘ch’. If ‘ch’ appears in the transliteration, then it 
is like ‘chh’, which is ‘ch’ with some extra aspiration. 


Please visit a Sanskrit learning web site or teacher for more 
detailed advice. One good site is learnsanskriLorg. 


Please note that the first time part of a mantra is mentioned in 
the following text, it is italicized. Sanskrit terms in the commentaries are 
often transliterated but not always according to the more rigorous 
scheme. Sometimes the more usual form is followed using the standard 
English alphabet. 


Hymn in Honour of the Planets 15 


HYMN IN HONOUR OF THE PLANETS 


3o Ti TIGA AA: 


om gam ganapataye namah 


aan Huitaguecesta ara: sai aera gas 
Tea yn: afghaa: wa Der: anfea ea Bardi 


brahma muraristripurantakari bhanuh Sasi bhiimisuto budhasca | 


gurusca sukrah sanirahuketavah sarve grahah santi kara bhavantu || 


Salutations to the Lord of Hosts 


Brahma (the Creator), Murari (Vishnu, the Sustainer), Tripurantakarin 
(Siva, the slayer of the demon Tripurdasura), Bhanu (the Sun), Shashin (the 
Moon), Bhumisuta (Mars, the son of the Earth), Budha (Mercury), Guru 


(Jupiter), Shukra (Venus), Shani (Saturn), R&hu and Ketu, may all these 
Grahas be peaceful. 


16 Yoga of the Planets 


the Sun 


urya, 


S 


Strya, the Sun 17 


SURYA, THE SUN 


Ho Healy AA: 


om arunaya namah 


1, Salutations to the dawn. 


Aruna is the dawn, the colour of the dawn and is the charioteer of 
the Sun. Naturally the hymn to the Sun starts with the remembrance of 
his first appearance. This also brings the memory of the first light of the 
awakening of the soul or Atman that the Sun represents. Throughout the 
names, the inner value of life is constantly alluded to. While the names 
have much of astrology and the mundane in them, the main focus is the 
evolution of higher consciousness. 


Aruna is portrayed as the charioteer of the Sun because the dawn 
precedes the Sun. The light that appears before the first rays of the Sun 
and breaks over the horizon is the precursor to the sunlight, but it is also 
sunlight. The consciousness of the soul, even not yet awakened, is still 
consciousness and it manifests in our will and is symbolized in the one 
holding the reins of the chariot. In the awakened state, consciousness is 
the witness of the activities of the world. What is that witness? This is the 
ultimate question, or at least a key part of it. If we know the answer, then 
we know the One that is our very Self. 


In the Vedic terminology, the soul is called the Atman, while God 
is called the Paramatman or, literally, the Supreme Soul. When the 
individual soul knows its essence to be the Supreme Soul, then it becomes 
the witness of the active elements of the world such as the intellect, the 
mind and the senses. Later it revels in knowing that these are in essence 
the same being. 


The Atman, resting in its awareness of oneness with the 
Paramatman or Supreme Soul, rides in the chariot that continues to be 
guided by the infinite intelligence of nature and the threads of destiny. 
The charioteer always follows the will of his master who rides in the 
chariot. That master, eternally satisfied, rises again and again without 
deviation according to the law. Om Arundya Namah, means obeisance or 
surrender to the charioteer of the light of life and the eternal natura! law, 


18 Yoga of the Planets 


knowing which, in its perfection, is the prerequisite for realizing our own 
true nature. 


In Sanskrit, this state is called Nitya Santosh. Nitya is eternal and 
Santosh means peace, fulfilment and satisfaction. This condition is said to 
be the natural state of the Jyotishi or Vedic Astrologer. indeed, it is 
mentioned in the texts as being a prerequisite for practising the science of 
Jyotisha. This first name establishes the astrologer in his natural state. As 
long as we have some fault to find with the flow of nature’s intelligence, 
we cannot fathom the message of the planets and the stars. Once we 
know who we truly are, then we have a crystal clear view of that message. 


The Vedic texts are full of wonderful stories. They are taught by 
the sages and there is much to be learnt from them. The style is quite 
brilliant and entertaining and they bear a resemblance to modern serial 
dramas, except that the Vedic stories are always uplifting and have a vast 
scope. Stories of gods, men, animals and the denizens of the upper and 
lower realms are all intertwined. Each episode is short and leaves us 
anticipating what happens next. It is hard to stop reading. In the ancient 
times, certain people called Sutas would travel around and recite these 
stories. They were highly honoured as everyone appreciated this work. 


The great epic, the Mahabharata, gives the story of Aruna which, 
very briefly, is as follows. The parents of the divine beings were 
Maharishi Kashyapa and his wife Aditi (Sun 6). Aditi had a rival wife 
called Dit?. When Diti asked her husband for 1,000 sons, Aditi asked for 
two that would be more powerful than all of the 1,000. Aditi gave birth to 
two eggs and then she waited for them to hatch. Diti's sons were born but 
Aditi’s did not come forth. After 500 years there was still no sign of the 
hatching so she secretly cracked one of them to see the progress of the 
child. Aruna emerged from the egg but had only formed down to the 
waist. He cursed his mother for his incomplete development caused by 
her impatience. He was appointed to be the charioteer of Sirya as his lack 
of a lower half would not hinder this work (Sun 36). 


We might conclude from this story that when something 
extraordinary is to happen, it takes more time to gestate so more patience 
is required. Diti's sons were more ordinary and were born more quickly, 
while Aditi’s took much longer. Diti's sons were all celestial snakes while 
Aditi’s other son was the king of the birds, Garuda. Garuda became the 
vehicle for Vishnu who is closely connected to the Sun especially with 
respect to the sign Pisces (see Sun 17). While birds and snakes are deadly 
enemies, there is also a deep spiritual story here. The snakes are 
connected to the nodes of the Moon that cause eclipses. The South node 
called Ketu is where the consciousness is trapped at the base of the spine. 
The light has to be guided (Aruna) from there to the place of the North 


Surya, the Sun 19 


Node, Rahu, at the top of the spine and thence to the crown, which is 
associated with Pisces, where it soars (Garuda). 


What else do we learn from this story? One clue is that the Sun is 
closely related to birds. In Vedic Astrology there is the concept of Pancha 
(five) Pakshi (birds). These are the Vulture, Owl, Crow, Cock and Peacock. 
This concept is widely used in India. For example, wearing the feather of 
your bird is said to enhance your luck. You find your bird based on the 
Nakshatra or lunar mansion at the time of birth and whether the Moon 
was waxing or waning. Each night, the Moon is in a different 
constellation, hence the concept of lunar mansions or Nakshatras. 


A deeper meaning of this first name is that Aruna is ‘a’ ‘rna’, 
which means without (karmic) debt. Their is no debt on the level of the 
Supreme Self. That is why it is eternal and sinless and we seek That. 


He ALIAS AF: 
om Saranyaya namah 


2. The refuge. 


Sharanya is the protector or one who gives refuge. The Sun, as 
the life giver and destroyer of darkness, is the protector of life in the solar 
system. The Sun represents relligious buildings and throughout history, 
people have sought safety in these places. The unsettled mind and 
emotions find their refuge in the peace of the unbounded consciousness. 


do POUTTAAAaT Aa: 
om karundrasasindhave namah 


3. The river or flow of the essence (Rasa) of compassion (Karuna). 


It is often said in astrology that the Sun is cruel. Yet at the 
beginning of these names we are reminded that he is the flow of pure 
compassion. This is the nature of awakened consciousness as well as the 
natural! feeling of anyone sitting on a good vantage point watching the 
sunrise. 


In the Yoga Sitras and the Lalita Sahasranama, it is said that the 
wise exhibit only four attitudes or emotions. One is compassion towards 
the suffering. The others are joy, friendliness towards the good and 
indifference towards the vicious and evil-minded. The qualities or Gunas 


20 Yoga of the Planets 


are Sattva, Rajas and Tamas. Sattva is satisfaction and purity. Rajas is 
activity and passion. Tamas is dullness, carelessness, selfishness and 
cruelty. The four emotions of the wise are all born of Sattva, which 
predominates in the Sun. All other emotions are born of Rajas and Tamas 
as signified by certain other Grahas or planets. 


So FAAAIA AA: 


om asamanabalaya namah 


4. The one of matchless, unrivalled strength. 


A few moments after sunrise we have to look away as the light is 
too strong for the eyes. As the sun rises or the Shakti of the inner 
consciousness rises, its strength is obvious. What is there that can 
compare with that? This name, containing the word Sama, gives the clue 
that this power (Bala) is rooted in the fullness of evenness. Fullness is 
represented by the first letter of all alphabets ‘a’. Evenness is Sama or 
Samana. The power is in the fullness, not in any expression of strength. It 
is evident by its mere existence, by just a glimpse of it. 


Similarly, anyone who has experienced awakening will testify to 
the power that arises, and that power is rooted in perfect tranquility. It 
exists just to be absorbed in or surrendered to. When this happens, the 
knot of the individual's struggle to survive unravels. This is the most 
deeply rooted of the knots. Breaking it is felt as a survival threat so we 
tend to resist it with the greatest effort. This surrender appears as the 
supreme sacrifice. Only the greatest power can split that knot and 
allowing that takes one home. 


If the light and power of awakening comes without the final 
breaking of the knot of individuality and the ego rises up to use that 
power far its own ends, then this distorts the whole of consciousness. We 
know that we tend to use all our other resources, inner and outer, for our 
own advancement. However, there is nothing more pitiful than using the 
power of awakening for one’s own wants and needs. The trickery of the 
ego is very subtle. It will find all kinds of excuses if we let it. The great 
sage Maharishi Vasistha taught that as long as ‘I, me, and mine’ keep 
arising in the mind, we have not realized the truth. Only spontaneous 
unassumed humility can be a true vehicle for that power. 


In the famous epic, the Ramayana, we read about the demon king 
Ravana. He worshipped Lord Shiva and gained such strength that no one 
could overcome him. However, it was not matchless because Ravana 
committed many atrocities especially against women and sages. He had 


Surya, the Sun 21 


to fight Shri Rama, who is hailed as God in human form. Rama 
worshipped the Sun as advised by the sage Agastya and, thereby, 
overcame Ravana. The Sun, as exemplified by Shri Rama, represents 
perfect righteousness and this is the basis of invincibility. A leader cannot 
fall unless some taint of corruption tarnishes him or her. That is why 
those who seek to undermine us will try to tempt us to some small act of 
dishonesty or injustice. The sages wrote these stories so we would clearly 
understand this and stay on track. 


Jo STATA AA: 


om artaraksakaya namah 


S. The protector (Raksaka) of the afflicted and the diseased (Arta). 


The Sun gives great vitality and this wards off disease. Sunlight is 
a remedy for many illnesses. The Sun also represents political leaders and 
their duty is to protect their subjects, especially those who are suffering 
from poverty and disease. The Sun represents all kinds of governments 
and large organizations. This is why they are expected to have health care 
and social welfare programmes as well as to give support to charities. It 
has nothing to do with politics. 


The names throughout this book bring out the highest values of 
the planets. These arise naturally when the Graha is well placed in the 
Vedic Astrology chart at the time of birth. The ongoing transits of the 
planets and the Dashas or planetary cycles modify the affect of the planet 
positions at birth. Whatever the Sun’s placement natally or in transit, 
repeating and meditating on the meaning of these names helps bring out 
the best in this aspect of our self. 


do atfecaa aa: 


om adityaya namah 


6. Born of Aditi. 


The Sun is the son of Aditt, the wife of the sage and progenitor 
Kashyapa. She gave birth to all the gods. Aditi means unbounded and 
symbolises the creative power of the absolute. Her children are called the 
Adityas. Kashyapa was a seer or Rishi of infinite consciousness. We say 
‘was’, but there is no record that he ceased to be as a physical 
embodiment. According to the Vedic texts, a few great souls are blessed 


22 Yoga of the Planets 


with relative physical immortality. Aditi is his power to create those 
impulses of intelligence that uphold unity and harmony in creation. His 
other wife, Diti, which literally means difference, gave birth to the 
demons whose role is to break the symmetry. Her offspring are the 
Daityas. Under the names of Rahu, we see that he is also the child of 
Kashyapa. The Adityas and Daityas are ever at war. 


This constant engagement sustains the life of the universe as 
both harmony and difference are essential. In Physics, there are particles 
called Bosons that harmonize and cause phenomena such as 
superconductivity. Others called Fermions sustain difference and literally 
stop us falling through the floor. All obvious life owes its existence to the 
Fermions. However, it is probably Bosonic effects that give rise to 
consciousness and the subtler powers of the nervous system, from bird 
navigation to telepathy, which we all experience to some degrec. 


It is said that humankind comes from the families of the ancient 
sages such as Kashyapa. There are seven sages who are associated with 
the seven stars of the SaptaRishi, commonly called the Big Dipper. These 
are associated with the seven principal Grahas or planets and Kashyapa is 
associated with the Sun. These ancient family lines are called Gotras or 
clans and many people of Indian origin belong to the Kashyapa Gotra. To 
avoid interbreeding, it is the custom that one does not marry another of 
the same Gotra. 


Ho SMTA TH: 


om adibhittéaya namah 


7. The one produced first (Adibhuta). 


The Sun was born first and then all the planets and the Moon. 
This is how a solar system evolves astronomically. The ancients clearly 
understood this. The Sun can also represent the first born in a family. On 
a deeper level, the Sun as the Atma or soul is prior to the mind and body. 
Even when the mind ceases to function and the body dies, the soul still 
exists. The sou] is the primary element and every other element arises 
after it or out of it. 


Philosophers argue about whether the world arises out of the 
soul or whether this is an inherent contradiction. Some say that the 
unconscious cannot arise from the conscious. Others say that the 
unconscious is made of the conscious and can be realized as nothing but 
consciousness, an ‘experience’ that many people report. This is the old 
debate between the dualists and the non-dualists. It appears to me to be 


Sirya, the Sun 23 


only a mismatch in the state of consciousness being described. In one 
state, the duality is obvious. In another, the unity is obvious. It is well said 
that ‘Knowledge is different in different states of consciousness’, 
Meditation helps us to know the truth directly. 


Some major theories of Physics describe a Unified Field that has 
no perceptible duality but contains the necessary knowledge to create. It 
does so by spontaneously breaking its own symmetry. Thus, Physics 
harmonises with the philosophies associated with the Vedic thought. 


The Vedic Astrological chart can also indicate the type of 
philosophy to which we are attracted. We will tend to adopt that 
regardless of what the ‘truth’ might be. The Sun tends to promote a 
universalist view such as Advaita Vedanta or non-dualist view. After all, 
there is only one Sun in our solar system and its light is found 
everywhere animating everything. 


do BRasrMdiea aA: 


om akhilagamavedine namah 


8. The knower of all the Aganvas or sacred texts. 


He is the repository of all the higher knowledge. In the Rig Veda 
(1.164.39), it says ‘Knowledge is structured in consciousness - the hymns 
of the Veda reside in the imperishable field’. This name indicates a very 
learned person butalso connects the Sun to the Self. 


Agama literally means ‘that which has come down’, the vast body 
of wisdom covering al! the arts and sciences which we have inherited 
from the great sages. In fact, all worthwhile knowledge can be considered 
within the scope of the word Agama so this name has a meaning on many 
levels, The Vedas are said to be ‘Shruti’ or heard. That is, they were 
cognized by the sages in deep meditation. The Agama is said to be ‘Smriti’ 
or remembered and has been milked, as it were, from the concentrated 
essence that is the Vedas. Vedic Astrology or Jyotisha is one of those 
sciences. The Sun is the primary significator for Jyotisha. 


30 SAA AH: 


om acyutaya namah 


9. The imperishable. 


24 Yoga of the Planets 


Only the imperishable is all-knowing, and the all-knowing state is 
imperishable; the two are inseparable. Achyuta also means one who is not 
fallen, who is firm, not yielding to passions and living in truth. Again, the 
names are hinting at the characteristics of the enlightened and this is 
particularly true for the Sun as it indicates the deepest state of our 
existence, our soul or consciousness and the ultimate Truth. 


This steadfastness explains why the Sun is uncomfortable in 
Libra, a sign of Venus, or in the close proximity of Venus. The temptation 
to yield to passion is then greater and this causes an inner struggle as 
well as a fear of being unworthy or fallen. In Taurus, the Sun is less 
afflicted because Taurus, even though a sign of Venus, is a fixed sign and 
thus helps the Sun be steady. Libra is a movable sign so being firm is 
challenging on the level of the soul. 


Many great persons are born in the days from mid-October to 
mid-November when the Sun transits the stars of Libra. They face this 
dilemma but can be at peace. It helps to step beyond this struggle and 
identify with that aspect of being which is beyond the individuality 
represented by a date of birth. Most of us, if we feel unworthy in some 
way, try to cover it with self-promotion or denial. Worse is resorting to 
the use of various chemicals as this can damage the health. However, if 
we meditate on this mantra, then any self-judgment is seen for what it is 
totally untrue. Self-judgment is utterly perishable. 


& ARaRTA AA: 


om akhilajfiaya namah 


10, The all-knowing (Akhila-jfia). 


First it was said that he knows all the Agamas which are the 
sacred scriptures, arts and sciences of all kinds. Now it is said that he 
knows everything. Total knowledge, the Veda, resides in pure 
consciousness (Sun 8). This is a state beyond learning, a state of pure 
knowing. 


Some acquire information through studies but one whose chart 
is dominated by the Sun is like the fountainhead of knowledge to 
whatever extent this manifests. The Sun represents ‘knowing’, or what we 
truly know, without any doubt. Many astrologers have the Sun associated 
with the Ascendant due to being born around sunrise. Particularly if the 
Sun is in a sign of Mercury, it brings an intellectual tendency. 


Sirya, the Sun 25 


40 Adeda AA: 


om anantaya namah 


11. Having no end, immortal (Ananta). 


The influence of the Sun makes us feel youthful, as if we are 
immortal. While the Sun in the first house of the chart can make for early 
praying of the hair, it can give a feeling of boundless power and vitality. 


S19 FA: 


om inaya namah 


12. The all-powerful, the mighty one, the lord (tna). 


If the Sun is in the first house, or the rising sign is sidereal Leo or 
the Sun is the AtmaKaraka’, then one naturally feels the invincible power 
of nature and is a natural leader. This is easily mistaken by others as 
arrogance or a tendency to dominate. It is good for both the person and 
those around them to understand how this comes about so both can be 
more accommodating. Those who are the leaders should study how 
nature governs. Nature controls in an invisible way and, as one Vedic text 
says, a good ruler should levy taxes and manage the affairs of state in the 
same discreet way as the Sun evaporates water from a lake. 


Ho TART AA: 
om viSvaripaya namah 


13. Whose form (Ripa) is the universe (Vishva). 


What is the body of consciousness? When the soul only knows 
the individual ego, then the body is the individual mind, senses and 
physical sheath. When the soul realizes its universal nature, it knows that 
every form is its body and becomes incapable of showing any preference. 


‘The AtmaKaraka is the soul planet. It is the Graha that has advanced furthest in 
its zodiacal sign. Rahu is naturally retrograde, so it is an exception being 
measured from the end of the sign. Ketu is not considered as it represents the 
freedom of the soul, not its embodiment. See also Sou! Level: Chara Karakas in the 
Chapter Advanced Mantra Selection from the Astrological Chart. 


26 Yoga of the Planets 


Those who have not experienced this state may find this 
incomprehensible, but it is an exquisite and perfect condition. 


34 Soq4 AH: 


om tyyaya namah 


14, The teacher ({jva). 


The position of this name tells us who is a true teacher: it must 
be one who embodies the qualities that have so far been hailed in the Sun. 
This should help us be very humble in offering to teach anything to 
anyone. 


oo Fa AH: 


om indraya namah 


15. The ruler of heaven. 


Indra is the king of the gods, the wholeness of nature that 
manages everything. Like Zeus, Indra is described as the wielder of the 
thunderbolt. The word for sense is Indriya, which means belonging to 
Indra. Hence, Indra is that wholeness of consciousness that manages our 
awareness and thus our sensory experiences, 


jo Aad AA: 
om bhanave namah 


16. The shining one. 


Bha (short ‘a’) is lustre, a star or Nakshatra. The path of the Sun 
through the sky is called the Bha Chakra or circle of stars. Bhaa (long ‘a’) 
is to shine forth, be brilliant and splendid. ‘A’ is the purest sound or the 
vowel least modified by the mouth and throat. The lengthening of the ‘a’ 
makes it represent a continuum. The syllable ‘Bhaa’ starts from silence 
and bursts into a continuous flow of pure sound. This reminds us of the 
big bang at the beginning of creation or how a star starts to shine when 
nuclear reactions suddenly begin due to the weight of matter crowding 
together. This is how gravitational energy is converted to other forms of 
energy that ultimately support life. 


Strya, the Sun 27 


do afequrareerrara AH: 


om indiramandiraptaya namah 


17. The friend of Vishnu. 


Apta means a friend or relative. Vishnu is universal expansion. 
He is the temple or space holder (Mandir) of Lakshmi (Indira), the Divine 
Mother. Only infinite expansion can hold the space for the Supreme 
Power. Fully evolved consciousness is unbounded just as the Sun’s rays 
spread throughout the universe. 


Name Sign Approx. Key word 

start date 
Dhata or Savitr Aries April 15 Power 
Aryaman Taurus May 15 Generosity 
Mitra Gemini June 15 Friendship 
Aruna or Varuna Cancer July 15 Power to bless 
Indra or Shakra Leo Aug. 15 Courage 
Vivasvan Virgo Sept. 15 Service 
Pushan Libra Oct.15 Prosperity 
Parjanya or Daksa = Scorpio Nov. 15 Transformation 
Amsha or Sagittarius Dec.15 Sharing and fairness 
Amshuman 
Bhaga Capricom  Jan.15 Earning by work 
Tvashta Aquarius Feb. 15 Skill and innovation 
Visnu Pisces March 15 Renunciation for 

truth 


Table of the Adityas (Courtesy of Pandit Sanjay Rath, Vishnu Purana). 


The Sun is called Aditya as his mother is Aditi, There isan Aditya 
or name of the Sun for each of the 12 solar months or signs of the zodiac. 
These are considered forms of Vishnu or related to Vishnu, where Vishnu 
is the totality. This is higher than the Aditya of Pisces even though the 
name is the same. Pisces is the culmination of the zodiac and thus 
represents completion, which Vishnu signifies. According to which month 


28 Yoga of the Planets 


you were born in, there is a name suited to your soul. Find your Aditya in 
the table above. 


do AeA AH: 


om vandaniyaya namah 


18. Fit to be saluted, the adorable (Vandaniya),. 


The sense of self is seen from the strength and placement of the 
Sun in the Vedic chart. This measures the self-worth or natural self- 
confidence. When the Sun is strong, the person expects to be given 
respect. He or she often seeks or assumes leadership positions. If it is 
influentiat but weak or afflicted astrologically, they would like to be 
respected but are somehow unsure of their worthiness even though they 
may be highly capable. It is a very strange thing that we actually do 
experience this just as the time of birth indicates. This shows the 
perfection of the natural law and its divine underpinning. No wonder that 
astrology and its basis astronomy are humanity's oldest sciences and 
have played a role in or been the main purpose of almost all the great 
ancient monuments that have survived. 


So S314 AR: 


om isaya namah 


19. The lord. 


ish is mastery and rulership. It indicates the Supreme Spirit. It is 
the number 11 as there are 11 Rudras and marks the North-East direction 
ruled over by Shiva as Ishana. Rudra is called ‘Shiva’, kind. This connects 
Siirya to Shiva. If the Sun is the marker of the deity we need to worship or 
propitiate, we can do Shiva Puja or a Yagya (Vedic ceremony) like the 
great Rudrabhishekam. This is an intensely powerful Yagya in which the 
chanting gets faster and faster. When done in full by multiple experts, one 
can hardly fail to be thrilled and uplifted. It is said to awaken the inherent 
natural law of a place, re-establishing balance. The implication of this idea 
is that those who want to maintain their local culture and the health and 
well-being of the local people should arrange for Vedic Pandits to 
perform this extraordinary Yagya in their locale regularly. 


Strya, the Sun 29 


 Qaaals AA: 


om suprasannaya namah 


20. Very delighted, kind and gracious. 


One who is very bright, clear, open and easy to understand. 
When our awareness is uncluttered with any dishonesty, which is 
inherently unclear or opaque, then all these beautiful qualities shine 
forth. Why are those whose lives are ruled or dominated by the Sun 
worthy of respect or even adoration? It is because of their truthfulness. If 
they fail to uphold truth, then their attitude is just arrogance to cover the 
lies. No oneobjects to following the orders of a profoundly honest person. 


Ho wane a: 


om susilaya namah 


21. Sweet natured, virtuous, well-behaved, of good character, chaste. 


Sushila is how all people in leadership positions should naturally 
be. Meditating on this mantra can help all of us to manifest the beautiful 
qualities of this name. 


7 cs 
$e Gadd aa: 
om suvarcase namah 
22. Having exceedingly great vigour and brilliance. Of beautiful form 
(Suvarchas). 


We all know the beauty and vigour of the physical Sun. In our 
own way, we can express these beautiful qualities by developing the 
wholeness of consciousness. This set of 108 mantras is there to assist us 
by enlivening many different flavours or expressions of that unitary state. 


do TGA AA: 


om vasupradaya namah 


23. The giver (Prada) of wealth (Vasu). 


30 Yoga of the Planets 


Vasu can mean a ray of light. The Sun naturally radiates, as does 
the awakened consciousness. It says in the Veda that Rashmis or rays 
radiate from consciousness, waking up whatever they fall on. This is the 
power of the attention of the saint. That is why everyone feels drawn 
towards such great persons and is the origin of the word Darshan. To 
‘have Darshan’, is not to see but be seen by an embodiment of divinity. 
Awakening is the greatest wealth. 


The Sun is the primary significator of wealth. Vasu can also 
indicate jewels and objects of value. [t is the number eight as there are 
eight Vasus, part of the celestial hierarchy. The Vasus rule over 
Dhanishtha, the Nakshatra that bridges the two signs of Saturn, Capricorn 
and Aquarius. They are the gods of the earthly plane and this is reflected 
in the energy of Dhanishtha. Aquarius is the sign opposite to the Sun’s 
sign Leo. It represents the business of the king, serving the people 
through the proper allocation of resources. A primary need is clean and 
sufficient water. Aquarius is the sign for building of reservoirs and other 
such public amenities and its symbol is the man carrying the pitcher of 
water. The number eight signifies the Prakriti or nature, which carries 
out the task of creation for the Self. 


‘a ~ 
3 qaq 4X: 
om vasave namah 


24. He is himself a shining jewel, goodness itself (Vasu). 


The Sun's gem is the Padmaraga or ruby also called Manikya. His 
good qualities outshine any gem. 


% aqeaa AA: 


om vasudevaya namah 


25. The Supreme Spirit (Vasudeva). 


This is a common name for Lord Vishnu. Depending on the 
circumstances, Surya can be identified with either Vishnu or Shiva. This 
name is especially used for Lord Krishna, who spoke the great teaching of 
the Bhagavad Gitd. It also means the son of Vasudeva, which was his 
father’s name. Praising him with this name, reminds him of his father 
whom his brother imprisoned. This brother, an evil king, also murdered 
all but one of Shri Krishna’s elder siblings. In other words, use of this 


Strya, the Sun 31 


name inspires that energy of the divine that corrects injustice. It helps us 
stay on the path of righteousness. 


Shri Krishna was the eighth born, like there are eight Vasus (Sun 
23). This mantra has eight syllables, which helps clean the eighth house, 
which is where the consequences of our mistakes accumulate. The eighth 
house is the spiritual transformation that leads to our liberation in the 
twelfth house. It is the fructification of our challenging karma, which 
generally initiates this process. The action of the eighth house is seen in 
the fifth house because it is the tenth from it. The Sun rules the natural 
fifth, so that is why we turn towards the significations of the Sun for help. 
These include our father and elders, the government and ultimately the 
search for our own spiritual source. 


3 SSIS TA: 


om ujjvalaya namah 


26. Expanded and splendid. 


Ujjvata has the sense of being unrestrained. What is there to 
restrain the Sun? Only the nodes that have a few minutes of domination 
during an eclipse as seen from the earth. Among humans, kings generally 
have the least limits on the expression of their will and the consciousness 
of the saint, the realized Atman, has no limits. 


Ujjwala also means lovely or beautiful as well as a fire blazing up. 
It is love and passion as we see in the nature of Leo and the lion itself. 
More profoundly, it is the fire of consciousness that rises up and brings 
about our awakening. Jt is generally thought that restraining the physical 
passion facilitates this awakening. Conserving our energy lets it grow 
until it rises upwards and bursts forth as pure consciousness. |n the Vedic 
philosophy, this conservation is called Tapas. 


Hh GAS Ae: 


om ugrartipaya namah 


27. Of fierce form. 


Ugrartipa also means powerful, strong, violent, high and noble. 
Close to the equator, the Sun appears fierce in the middle of the day. This 
is also the nature of the warrior king or of that power manifesting in 


32 Yoga of the Planets 


human awareness, which has no limit and is ready to burn up the illusion. 
This may appear violent to the one wedded to the illusion but is only 
about illuminating what was dark and hidden. 


a aT aA: 
om trdhvagaya namah 


28. Moving above. 


Ga suggests going or moving and Urdhva is aloft, above, high, 
superior so it has a sense of domination as well as erectness. Leo 
ascendants are plainly visible due to their bearing. They stand erect like a 
lion in its full dignity. Naturally, factors such as Saturn in or aspecting the 
Ascendant can put a slight stoop in the stature. 


This also refers to the upward movement of the Kundalini Shakti. 
As it rises up, the spine straightens and even the hair may stand on end. 
Just as the Sun rises up to the mid-heaven, our being can rise up in joy. 


* ~ 
go Traead Aa: 
om vivasvate namah 


29. Abiding everywhere, of vast existence. 


This is a famous name of the divine. It consists of three parts 
each starting with ‘v’. Vi means division but can indicate vastness and 
greatness as well as multiplicity. Vas is to dwell or be. Vat indicates 
possession of these qualities. ‘Va' has the sense of both moving and 
residing, It is auspiciousness itself. 


This name naturally follows the previous one (Sun 28). After the 
Shakti arises, consciousness becomes infinite and a sense of extreme 
vastness appears. One senses ‘I am everywhere’. At the same time, one 
can feel a part of every thing. That is the other side of ‘Vi’ that divides 
allowing Being to manifest as beings. Together they structure a sublime 
state. 


eo Jalan aa: 


om udyatkiranajalaya namah 


Surya, the Sun 33 


30. Rises with a mass of rays. 


This is a pictorial view of the sunrise, which is hard to express 
sweetly in a few English words. ja@la is a web or mass like a coat of 
armour. Udyat is the sunrise and rising up in general, as well as diligence 
or persistent activity. Kirana is a ray or beam of light. The Sun rises up 
and continues above us surrounded by a mass of light rays. 


This is equally pictorial of the subtle reality of the awakened 
consciousness. Sitting in the presence of one who is living in truth, one 
can see both the mass of rays and the focus of them through the attention. 
To some extent, it is there in everyone and everything, 


The Rig Veda. is the most ancient literature or text known to us. 
In the first verse of the last chapter, the 10™ Mandala, it says: 


‘The great fire at the beginning of the dawn has sprung aloft, and 
issuing forth from the darkness has come with radiance. Agni, the bright- 
bodied, as soon as born, fills all dwellings with shining light’ 


While this could be taken as a mundane description of the dawn, 
it also very precisely describes the awakening of consciousness. This is a 
translation by an English Victorian scholar but the Sanskrit verse 
contains much more. Many saints hold that the Veda is both a 
commentary on the process of awakening and a vibratory representation 
of it. The actual sounds activate those experiences because they are the 
vibrations of that experience. 


Reciting these names of the Sun can also awaken these states or 
‘Bhavas’. The early morning before sunrise is especially fruitful for this 
practice. 


CRAIC qa: 


om hrsikesaya namah 


31. The lord of the senses. 


Hrsikesha is the one who is fully in control of his senses and is 
filled with joy. See this name under Venus 63. 


5 The Rig Veda Samhita: A Collection of Ancient Hindu Hymns. Trans. H.H. Wilson, 
Ed. W.F. Webster, Trubner & Co., London, 1888. 


34 Yoga of the Planets 


So FACS AA: 


om trjasvalaya namah 


32. The powerful, the mighty, the great (Urjasvaia). 


He is possessed of full vigour. In youth, one has a certain vitality 
but it gradually gets wasted or worn away. The Yogic or true Tantric 
concept is to concentrate that energy so it fills the whole system rather 
than residing mainly in the base of the spine, where it causes a pressure 
of desire. The rising and expansion of this energy leads to a certain glow 
as celebrated in many of these names. 


om viraya namah 


33. Vital and strong. 


Urjas, in the previous name (32), suggests vigour while Vira is 
sheer power. This word is the basis of the English word ‘virility’. 


go fASRTS aa: 


om nirjaraya namah 


34. Free (Nir) of ageing or decay (fara). 


This is the consequence of conserving the life force. The Sun in 
many ways represents health and prolonged youthfulness. For example, 
the Sun gives an optimistic disposition because it is always shining. A 
positive attitude in life is excellent for health. The Moon, en the other 
hand, has two phases. When the Moon is waxing one feels the life energy 
rising and is thus more optimistic, whereas during the waning phase one 
can feel as if things are declining. 


% SA AA: 


om jayaya namah 


35. Victorious (Jaya). 


Surya, the Sun 35 


In India, the government has the motto ‘Satyam eva jayate’, truth 
alone conquers. Whatever partial victories are achieved by dishonest 
means, ultimately only truthfulness prevails. Truth is that which never 
changes because only the unchanging can be said to victorious over time. 
Hence truth, Satya, and knowing, are intimate with that pure state of 
consciousness, which is unchanging by its very nature. Absolute truth is 
the property of silence and is thus only found in silence. 


We can also say that whatever of human knowledge has survived 
longest is closest to truth and this would be the Rig Veda. There is a 
traditional teaching about the Veda that ‘The commentary of the Veda is 
the Veda itself, follow the sequence’. The implication is that the totality of 
knowledge is contained in the first syllable and the following syllables, 
verses and hymns increasingly elaborate on this. | am indebted to 
Maharishi Mahesh Yogi for this insight. The process of human knowledge 
is one of ever more elaborated understanding of natural law. It starts 
with our first intuitions or revelations. This forms the basis for the next 
layer of understanding. There is truth in all of it, so there is victory. The 
greater the depth of truth, the greater the victory. 


4, & ¢ ~ 
& SeetayAaARAg Aa: 
om trudvayavinirmuktanijasarathaye namah 


36. His (Nija) charioteer (Sdrathi) is cut off (Vinirmukta) at the thighs. 


There is a story of how Aruna, the charioteer of the Sun, was 
born prematurely without his thighs and legs (Sun 1). He was given the 
position of guiding the chariot of the Sun for which these limbs are not 
needed. Clearly, this is symbolic of the dawn which is seen clearly before 
the sunrise and then disappears as the Sun rises. We could postulate this 
in the human context as referring to the focus of life, which tends to 
rotate around the thighs until the life force rises up and takes permanent 
residence in the higher Chakras. After this, life dwells perpetually in a 
state of pure delight, devoid of craving. 


The rising up of the Kundalini does not necessarily mean this 
state is permanently established. As long as there is some identification 
with the body, its influence is still there and one’s attention can be drawn 
to any of the Chakras. The use of the word dvaya, twofold, to qualify dru, 
thighs, makes this more explicit. Dvaya refers to duality that is the source 
of fear and conflict unless one also perceives the bliss of the essential 
unity of life. This mantra encourages us to recognize the non-dual essence 
of everything. 


36 Yoga of the Planets 


3 RMI AA: 


om rsivandyaya namah 


37. Worshipped (Vandya) by the Seers of Reality (Rshi). 


The Seers are those who have realized the truth. They are 
perpetually attending to the light of life, the inner Sun. Once known, 
nothing else can attract the awareness. This attention is the highest form 
of worship. Those who know it and can recognize it honour one who 
embodies this state. Those who are not Seers will sense it to whatever 
extent their heart is open. If distracted, they may miss it entirely. 


Go Ges] AA: 
om rughantre namah 


38. The remover (Hantr) of disease (Rug). 


The inner and the outer sunlight heal both the subtle and the 
gross bodies. Most of all, the light of consciousness removes the Pragya 
Aparadha, which is literally the mistake of the intellect. Pragya Aparadha 
is the notion of difference coupled with the forgetting of the essential 
harmony or unity of all things. In the text Charaka Samhita, the science of 
Ayurveda cites this as the source of all disease and certainly dis-ease. The 
realization of oneness within everything removes this, even though the 
experience of the variety of the world continues. 


H RAAHATY AA: 


om rksacakracaraya namah 


39. Travelling through the circle (Cakra) of stars (Rksa). 


Rksa means a sign (Rashi) or a Nakshatra of the zodiac. The Sun 
defines our seasons and our year by its apparent rotation through them. 
The sequence of full moons defines the Rashis and these are attributed to 
the Sun. As the Sun is giver of the law, the Vedic chart showing the Rashis 
is where we look for our destiny. The Moon's approximately 27-day 
rotation is the source of the Nakshatras. They are attributed to the Moon 
and thus show our mental experience of life. 


Rksa can mean best or excellent. The mantra can be taken as a 
reference to the Chakras in the body. The Sun, as the life force, moves 


Sirya, the Sun 37 


through the bodily Chakras sustaining our existence. The best Chakra can 
be said to be the Crown Chakra where consciousness manifests in its 
glory. The Kundalini energy rises through the Chakras in the body from 
the base Chakra in the perineal region to the crown. The Crown Chakra is 
the ‘place’ of infinity, but there are Chakras conceptually even higher than 
this. 


o aAATAaTa AA: 


om rjusvabhavavittaya namah 


40. He is famous (Vitta) for his upright (Riju) nature (Swebhdva). 


Riju is also honest, straightforward and favourable. A strong and 
well-placed Sun gives these characteristics. The rising Kundalini 
straightens the spine. Once risen, life has an upright characteristic as the 
awareness is centred in the highest Chakra. 


do fae FA: 


om nityastutyaya namah 


41. Eternally to be praised (Stutya). 


Nitya is eternal and refers to spiritual practices done daily 
without regard for special days. The principal daily mantra of the 
initiated is the Gayatri Mantra, which celebrates Savitr, one of the names 
of the Sun. It is repeated at the three solar junctions of the day: sunrise, 
midday and sunset. Renunciates may also do practices at midnight. The 
junctions are the times when the transcendental is more. accessible. The 
Sun, which is worshipped is the inner Sun, which has as its symbol! the 
outer Sun. Behind the orb is the Divinity, Narayana. 


The awakening of the inner Sun draws others who sense this and 
seek the same. Who comes is a matter of Karma, which can be studied 
from the Vedic chart. 


So RRA AA: 


om rkaramatrkavarnarupaya namah 


42. His form is the process of creation from the primordial sounds. 


38 Yoga of the Planets 


According to the Vedas, creation starts from a point or Bindu. 
This is like the concept of the Big Bang. From this Bindu, the trinity of 
creation, maintenance and dissolution arise in the form of two triangles. 
The upward pointing triangle, the Shiva triangle, is associated with the 
letter ‘a’ and returns awareness to its source. The downward pointing 
triangle, the Shakti triangle, is associated with the letter (Kara) ‘r’ and 
causes manifestation. This is a semivowel that sounds rather like ‘ry’ in 
the word jewellery but is more of a vibration (Rrrrr). It has the sound of 
creation in it. From this ‘r' comes all the other sounds (Maerka) and the 
letters (Varna). Thence, the Veda is formed and projects into all the 
matter that there is. 


It is said that Shiva exhaled the Veda and from that the universe 
was created (Shiva Mahdapurana, Rudra Samhita II). A similar idea is to be 
found in the Book of Genesis in the Torah and the Bible. Specifically it is 
mentioned that He created without any sense of ego. The primary Veda is 
the Rik or Rig Veda (in Sanskrit ‘k’ becomes ‘g’ before ‘v’); again we have 
the syllable 'r’ (Rig is correctly written as rg). Within the silence of the 
absolute, truth or ‘rtam’ vibrates. From this, creation bursts forth. 


The primordial sound is ‘r’ or ‘rk’. The ‘k’ is what brings a stop to 
the vibration. Try it. When you say ‘Rrrrr... there is a vibration or stirring 
but as soon as you move your mouth to pronounce a‘k’ it stops. Thus ‘rk’ 
is a verbal expression of the range from full vibration to pure silence. 
Within that, everything that is resides. Hence, the Rig Veda is the first and 
foremost description of the fundamental reality. 


This name indicates using this letter ‘r’ as a symbol to indicate 
the Sun. It also reminds us that the energy of creation embodied in the 
Sun is also the Devi Shakti or power of the Goddess. 


The two triangles mentioned above overlap and forma diagram. 
This is the most basic form of the Shri Chakra or auspicious diagram. It is 
a six-pointed star with a point in the middle. If the point is left out, the 
anchoring connection with the still centre, the Divine consciousness, is 
unrepresented. The real utility of the diagram can be lost unless one 
consciously honours the centre as the infinite. The 12 house Chakra of 
Vedic Astrology is a elaboration of this six pointed star. Between each 
point is a space so there is a total of 12 places around the circle. The 
interpretation of these ‘houses’ follows from the concept of the Shiva and 
Shakti triangles and their interaction. Houses one, five and nine are the 
points of the Shiva triangle and refer to Dharma and the self. Houses 
three, seven and eleven are the points of the Shakti triangle and represent 
desire, the significant other and fulfilment of desire. This can be taken 
much further. it is helpful for astrologers to remember that the centre of 


Sirya, theSun 39 


the chart is sacred and should not be cluttered with data. This important 
tradition is even found in Western astrology through the Huber school. 


do Sadodsla AA: 


om ujjvalatejase namah 


43. He has a beautiful and glorious (Ujjvala) radiance or glow. 


This is the first use of the word Tejas. When an individual 
surrenders internally, transcending individual wants and needs and 
relaxing into a state of pure being, then the body has a glow. This is Tejas 
and is ascribed to a subtle bodily substance called Ojas. Ayurveda 
describes Ojas as evolving out of the reproductive physiology that it 
describes as the subtlest product of digestion. 


The relationship between the sexual and the spiritual is 
inescapable. One is ruled by Venus, the other by Jupiter. Jupiter wants 


children but sees the desire energy of Venus as a distraction. Thus Jupiter 
sees Venus as an enemy. Hence, this is often the typical attitude of 
religious orthodoxy towards sexuality. Venus, however, does not have a 
problem with Jupiter; he is merely neutral towards him. In truth, there is 


no fruit to the practices of Jupiter without the essence that Venus rules 
over, the melting of the heart and the flowering of devotion. That is why 


some learned astrologers call Venus the principal significator of Moksha 
or liberation. 


Venus shows the degree of refinement of life that we have 
carried into this body. Venus is always fairly close to the Sun. At the 
highest level, their association can give a capacity for pure loveliness and 
for the essence that is Venus to be completely subsumed into the being, as 
suggested by this name. 


de Freteraeatearara aa: 

om rksadhinathamitraya namah 

44, The friend (Mitra) of the principal lord (Adhindatha) of the stars (Rksa) 
— the Moon. 


The Moon is the lord of the stars because it is the brightest object 
visible when the stars are visible. The Moon’s light is only the Sun’s, so 
they are natural friends. More internally, the mind observes, illuminates 


40 Yoga of the Planets 


and relates to all its objects. The soul or Self is not antagonistic to the 
mind or the heart from which it arises. It is a friend. Without the mind 
and heart there will be no experience for the Self to witness. it remains 
alone. 


% FERC AA: 


om puskaraksaya namah 


45. He has eyes (Aksa) like the blue lotus and is thus exceptionally 
beautiful. 


This name can also mean having intoxicated eyes. Bliss has that 
effect. The finest view is the blossoming of pure consciousness. That is 
likened to a lotus flowcring and can be experienced as a wondrous blue 
colour. 


Pus is blossoming, Kara is to cause it. His vision is endlessly 
expanding. Internally, once the view of pure knowledge arises, the vista is 
endlessly elaborating. We all see and learn every day but to whatever 
extent we choose to close our heart and thus our mind, to that extent 
everything seems the same or ‘old’. The fully open heart is always tasting 
newness. Everything it sees and feels is as if blossoming. 


4 Saeedl4 AA: 


om luptadantaya namah 


46. He is not masticating (Luptadanta). 


The Brahma Sitras is one of the greatest Vedic texts and belongs 
to the section called Vedanta pertaining to the knowledge of the Self. It 
says ‘Brahman is the devourer of everything’. Life can be effortless but if 
the needs and wants predominate, much chewing may be required. The 
Sun does not need to chew his food, it is digested effortlessly. This is 
pictorial of the nature of that consciousness that has nothing to do but is 
consuming everything. Initially, there is an experience of separation. 
Then a state of oneness is realized. After some time, that oneness 
overtakes all the differences, revealing everything as its expression. This 
is consciousness effortlessly consuming everything. This name also hints 
at the power of the hidden (Lupta) or unverbalized parts of certain 
mantras, signified by the teeth/tooth or tusk (Danta). 


Surya, the Sun 41 


HO AW AA: 


om santaya namah 


47, Peaceful. 


He is completely at rest. This is because no effort needs to be 
made within the Self. One error we al! tend to make is to try and fix or 
heal the inner, This is quite contrary to the nature of the Self and prevents 
it becoming evident to us. Stopping masticating, as it were, and just 
resting in whatever is, leaves pure Shanta or peace. Even meditation, if 
done for some aim of being different or becoming a spiritual somebody, 
achieves little. If our inherent tenderness takes us into the meditative 
Space with or without a technique, then itis the flow of gentleness, which 
is pure loveliness. 


There is no peace without tenderness. The need to fix something 
inside ourselves is a kind of harshness like all judgment. It covers the 
tenderness as a cloud hides the Sun’s rays. 


3 iledara AA: 


om kantidaya namah 


48. The giver of brilliance. 


Kanti is splendour and beauty. It can mean loveliness as well as 
one beautifully decorated or handsomely dressed. While the Sun is the 
father figure who can appear stern, he also grants a special sweetness. 
This is especially true of those who have known the Self, which is 
characterized by purity, consciousness and bliss (Satchidananda). This 
sequence of three names (Sun 46-48) tell us that those who stop 
struggling within experience peace and becomie Kanti. 


3 Yala FA: 
om ghanaya namah 


49, Steadfast. 


Ghana has the sense of unshakeable compactness or firmness. It 
is concentrated and undispersable. This goes with the fixed nature of the 
Sun’s sign Leo. Great leaders always know when to bend but when 


42 Yoga of the Planets 


necessary they are unyielding. There is an infinite range of levels of 
leadership. Vedic Astrology helps us understand how this expresses in 
different people and even groups and countries. This removes the need to 
criticize anything or anyone because we can understand how any 
particular behaviour arises. !f asked, we can perhaps suggest how 
someone's vibration can be raised and purified. 


Hh BAHAR TTNG TA: 


om kanatkanakabhisanaya namah 


50. Shining with golden (Kanatkanaka) ornaments (Bhisana). 


Solar people are likely to be fond of gold and the Sun rules over 
golden things. The outer Sun is a golden orb. The name also indicates the 
golden luminescence that one often sees around the wise souls. As the 
perception refines, this golden aura can be seen around everything. 


40 Gaara aa: 


om khadyotaya namah 


51. The source of light (Khadyota). 


This is a name of the Sun or a firefly. It has the suggestion of a 
source of light or flash of brilliance. The look of the enlightened is like a 
flash of light in our consciousness. This is why people are keen to visit 
saints for ‘Darshan’. As mentioned in Sun 23, when awakened 
consciousness looks at a body, it sees itself and also the limitation that is 
preventing that individual from knowing its own Being, In that look, the 
limitation starts to be dismantled. What it sees, the truth, awakens. Ona 
high level, there is no ignorance at all but on other levels, the drama of 
difference exists. 


& afraaaeca an: 


om linitakhiladaityaya namah 


52. Completely destroying all (Lanita Akhila) the demonic forces (Daitya) 
~ darkness and ignorance. 


Surya, the Sun 43 


Destroying the negative energies is the responsibility of the Sun. 
Our own truth is for clearing our own ignorance and, if we feel incapable, 
we Seek out one who embodies a greater light to help illuminate us. This 
is wise because our own light is already shining at its own level. 


This is the concept of the Guru. The word Guru means the 
remover of darkness (Jupiter 1). Darkness can only be removed by 
introducing a light source and that is why people have always turned to 
souls who have awakened their own light. We call them saints and depict 
them with halos. We move towards them because, if they bless us, our 
awakening can be kick-started, which otherwise may take a very long 
time. This has been true in every culture and every religion, because this 
awakening has nothing specifically to do with culture or religion. It is 
what ultimately distinguishes humans from animals. We can even say 
that an awakened soul is truly super-human. 


There are historic claims of levitation for over 200 Catholic saints 
based on apparently reliable eyewitnesses In South Asia, these things are 
also well known. I have met a few people who have had such experiences. 
Physicists find such reports inconvenient or they are frightened to 
investigate for fear of their closed-minded colleagues. Recently, in 2013, 
the BBC reported on an investigation of a holy-man who is said not to 
have taken water or food for 70 years. His name is Prahlad Jani (Mataji). 
He agreed to being investigated and the doctors kept him in a hospital 
room for 10 days during which he took no food or water and excreted 
nothing. He appeared entirely happy and healthy. Such powers are said to 
be a side effect of the evolution of sanctity. The awakening of the inner 
light of the soul is what really matters. That alone can benefit the world. 


We radiate our inner state and everyone around us is touched by 
this. Whatever we are, we give that to our environment. Some people are 
more aware of this than others but it is going on all the time. I used to 
experience deep depression, which is common for those with a strong 
influence of Saturn on the Moon. One day, | said to myself, “ts this what 
you are giving to the world? Enough.” After years of living with this 
problem, | firmly resolved to end it. Within about 24 hours, the intensity 
of the depression decreased and | have never gone back to that place. 
Saturn is about sorrow, so the path of those touched strongly by Saturn is 
to overcome sorrow. Similarly, those touched by Mars have to commit to 
overcoming anger. It is critical that one does not fall in to the pit of 
blaming anyone for our situation. Anyone includes ourself and God. If one 
stays out of that pit, anger stays out of the heart and leaves space for love 
and compassion. Otherwise, these self-destructive tendencies will go on 
and on. Enough angry people can destroy the whole society. 


44 Yoga of the Planets 


Misery also destroys society but through disease rather than 
social upheaval. We could blame the press and politicians for fomenting 
such things but they are really reflectors of the mass consciousness, Only 
a growing number of pure hearts free of negative emotions like misery 
and anger can turn this around. 


AAS FH: 


om satyanandasvariipine namah 


53. His natural form (Svardpin) is the bliss of truth (Satydnanda). 


By studying the qualities of the Sun, discussed in this chapter, we 
can see those activities that can bring us satisfaction, even bliss, through 
the Sattva of the Sun. For example, selfless service giving protection and 
care for those who need it as well as meditating on the Truth Itself. 


The Vedic Astrological chart shows the patterns that we brought 
into this world over and above those that come with just having a human 
body. Satya or truth is beyond these patterns. Dishonesty creates 
discomfort, which we can only evade by becoming hard hearted. 
Hardness makes life worthless, while honesty makes one feel relaxed and 
the pure state of Satya is both a state of perfect relaxation and pure 
sweetness or bliss. More honesty means life has more joy. {t is best to 
avoid temptations that involve some compromise or seek help from the 
good. Whatever has occurred in the past does not matter. It is only the 
present that matters. 


Vedic Astrology shows us that the planets that tend to make us 
run around, Mercury (money and intellect) and Venus (passion), promise 
happiness but do not deliver. All satisfaction belongs to the Sattvic 
planets Jupiter, the Sun and the Moon. Satya and Sattva are closely 
related. They both begin with ‘Sat’ or purity of life. It is just like those 
fraudsters who say, ‘Give me your money and I'll give you much more 
back.’ It is exciting but it is alwaysa lie. 


do SOa ara AA: 
om apavargapradaya namah 


54. One who gives achievement or the fulfilment of actions (Apavarga). 


The Self is the true author of all that is accomplished and every 
drop of fulfilment we experience. Normally we assume that fulfilment is 


Sarya, the Sun 45 


associated with the result or the gain that may accrue from some act. This 
name alerts us to the truth that the sense of fulfilment arises from within 
and is not a product of what we have done. Once the consciousness starts 
to get purer, every impulse of life brings a drop of bliss. Standing up or 
falling down, winning or watching another crossing the line in front of us 
is equally sweet because it is all a movement of the essence of life, which 
is pure bliss. Without that, whatever we gain brings little true satisfaction. 
After a moment, the cravings start again. 


Some people will say that they are afraid of losing ambition 
because they think that is what is driving them forward. Ambition can be 
clearly seen in the Vedic chart and is part of what we are. A strong Sun is 
seeking a throne but ambition is primarily shown by Mars. As the 
consciousness becomes purer, we are naturally given greater 
opportunities to serve. The greater the capacity, the greater the 
responsibility. 


0 SNGSRUaTY AH: 


om 4rtaSaranyaya namah 


55. The refuge (Sharanya) from afflictions and disease (Arta). Especially 
the disease of dis-ease. 


Bp Talla a: 
om ekakine namah 


56. Alone (Ekakin). 


There is only one Sun. Pure Being is solitary as it is 
undifferentiated by its nature and thus knows no duality. One whose 
chart and hence whose life is ruled by the Sun has a certain Joneliness. It 
is like the king who is surrounded by many but has no peers. 


The Vedic literature says that the universe was created because 
the One started to feel aloneness, ‘] am one, let me be many’ (eko’ham 
bahu syam). Thus, the infinite wholeness burst into an infinite number of 
parts, each of which is to experience some fragment of the infinite 
possibilities before being reabsorbed into the wholeness. Each of us is 
such a part. The Divine chose to experience every possible experience. 
We are That, blessed with one stream of experience, so how can we 


46 Yoga of the Planets 


complain about anything? Al! our complaining is born of the inner tonging 
to rediscover the Oneness that has been forgotten. 


The Oneness can be seen as a superimposition of all possible 
universes. Put all colours together and you get white light. The One could 
only choose to become all possibilities. In our ignorance we say, “How 
could God have allowed this or that tragedy?” If we could see with the 
light of God we would fail to find any tragedy, just a grand theatre. Thisis 
easy to understand because we willingly watch a film containing many 
terrible things and later we say, what a good movie! 


Those who have realized that One are called ‘Sakshi Bhdtam', the 
witness of the play of nature. It is like the cinemagoer witnessing the 
movie. Of course, we can be so engrossed in a movie that we forget 
ourselves. This is how it is with reality. When one remembers oneself, 
then there is the Self as witness of the movie. What is the drama? Only the 
playing out of the potentiality of the One. In the Veda, we have Bhavam 
and Bhavani. Bhavam is said to be Lord Shiva, the eternal One, pure 
silence that holds the space for His spouse who is Bhavani. Bhavam 
means ‘being’ and Bhavani literally means ‘let me become’. The impulse 
to or tendency of becoming is the Shakti or power of being. 


About 1982, Physics discovered that the Unified Field, the great 
wholeness of everything, becomes the manifest universe spontaneously 
out of its own nature. They called it ‘spontaneous symmetry breaking.’ 
Some people think that this theory does away with God, but | would say 
that they have missed the point. They want God to be something different 
than that wholeness. Whatever there ‘was’ before time and space must be 
its mother. The whole idea is inconceivable to the ordinary human 
intellect and yet we can even write mathematical equations to describe it. 


Another Sanskrit expression in praise of the Guru says ‘Tat 
Padam Darshitam Yena', meaning ‘By whom the sign of That has heen 
revealed’. The Guru, like the Physicist, can only indicate That by some 
manifest expression. To know It one has to be It, and then It alone is. 


aN 
30 Hala AH: 
om bhagavate namah 
57. Divine; possessing (Van) divinity. 


Bhaga or divinity can also mean great good fortune, beauty, 
knowledge, wealth or fame. Divinity is the attribute closest to Oneness. It 
has a slight flavour of duality and represents the emergence of the 


Sirya, the Sun 47 


personal god from the impersonal! absolute. This name automatically 
follows from the previous and the next few names further elaborate on 
how the One becomes the many. 


Kings and governments are the repositories of wealth or Bhaga 
in the world because they are the predominant authority in their 
domains. The Sun represents both the inner and outer expressions of 
Bhaga. 


4 GRRATATHIR A: 


om srstisthityantakarine namah 


58. The source (Kdrin) of the functions of creation (Srsti), maintenance 
(Sthit') and dissolution (Anta). 


In the Vedic view, there are three modes of Divinity and three 
Gunas or qualities with which everything is endowed. The three modes of 
Divinity or natural Law are the creative force Brahma, the sustaining 
force Vishnu and the dissolving force Shiva. The Gunas are called Sattva, 
which we can loosely translate as purity, Rajas, which is activity, and 
Tamas, which is inertia. Sattva sustains, Rajas creates and Tamas 
dissolves. This is how the ancient seers perceived and understood nature. 


Physics describes the universe in terms of these three functions 
(e.g. in Feynman diagrams). As management functions they are vested in 
the ruling power, whether God on the cosmic level or the government on 
any mundane level. Within the individual, we al! create, maintain and 
dissolve our thoughts and activities, not by any force of the mind, which is 
itself a creation arising out of the heart, but by virtue of the presence of 
the soul in the body. The Self is not directly involved but, by its being 
associated with a body, all of life unfolds. Just as the mere shining of the 
Sun causes these three to operate in all forms of life on Earth. 


$0 TUNA AA: 


om gunatmane namah 


59. Having all the good qualities. 


Gunas are qualities of all kinds but in this name it indicates those 
qualities we consider ‘good’. We could infer that al! qualities and thus all 
prototypes of all things reside within the absolute as the latest theories of 


48 Yoga of the Planets 


Physics suggest. The formula that describes the Unified Field has a perfect 
symmetry and is thus unmanifest. Yet, it is made up of all the formulas 
that describe the different forces of nature combined with those showing 
how they bond together. Inherent within it is the spontaneous breaking 
of its own symmetry and thus the projection of the manifest world. 


The Sun represents the Atman, which is the individual’s being 
and which has an unmanifest or absolute ‘aspect’. That is how the 
individual can know the ultimate absolute Being, if not quantitatively at 
least qualitatively. 


om ghrnibhrte namah 


60. Hot, shining (Ghrni Bhrt). Sustained by heat. 


If the Sun stopped burning, it would die. The soul also shines, If 
this ceases, then the soul’s knowing becomes utterly unmanifest. This 
name shows that the one possessing all the good qualities (or all 
qualities) is shining and thus exhibiting those attributes as needed. 


% Fed FA: 


om brhate namah 


61. Expanding, great (Brhat). 


Light, once radiated, endlessly expands. The universe itself is 
endlessly expanding. Consciousness is always expanding and because of 
this we all have a longing to expand our territory of influence, even 
though we might deny this due to various afflictions. As we deepen in 
silence, our inner essence becomes more subtle and can appear as 
infinite. Even then, the expansion continues endlessly. 


Contraction is inherent within expansion. Wherever we see 
expansion, something is contracting and where we see contraction, 
something is surely expanding. It is the nature of things. That is why, in 
meditation, sometimes we feel as if we are becoming bigger and 
sometimes smaller or more concentrated. 


Strya, the Sun 49 


$0 TEM aH: 
om brahmane namah 


62. Brahman, the ultimate wholeness. 


Brahman is more than the absolute and the relative put together. 
{thas the same root (Br) as the previous name. The One that is great, that 
is endlessly expanding is Brahman. Its realization comes through 
knowing oneness. That One then devours everything that appears to be 
different. It is an evolution of knowledge. 


This experience is described in the Brahma Stitras. It comments 
on the realization of Brahman to help the understanding of one whose 
consciousness is transforming. When the whole universe and the endless 
stream of universes are devoured, that is Brahman. Whatever one has 
known, that knowledge is always just the beginning of knowing totality. 
There is no end. 


» 3 © 
Wa aT AA: 
om aisvaryadaya namah 


63. The giver of sovereignty (Aishvarya). 


The ultimate ruler of the universe is the Brahman. It has nothing 
to change in its absolute perfection. The greater the ruler, the less he is 
involved in day-to-day management. On a small scale the government is 
endlessly occupied in its business but the ruler of a large country never 
has to trouble with small details. It is said that in China, the ministers 
knew what to do just from the way the robe of the Emperor was folded. 
Wholeness is self-regulating since it comprehends within itself the 
totality of nature’s perfect law. Whatever our realm, this rulership can be 
seen from the Sun in our Vedic chart. 


: ¢ 
 QIGTa AH: 
om Sarvaya namah 


64. The goer. 


The Sun motivates everything by its movement. Sharva also 
means one who hurts or kills. It is a name given to both Lord Shiva and 


50 Yogaot the Planets 


Lord Vishnu. It is mysterious suggesting the power over life and death. 
That which is given can be taken away at any time. God appears cruel, but 
only because we falsely identify with something that was never ours to 
claim. He shows us that by removing that falsehood we then see we had 
no real ownership. 


Letting that into our heart leaves us free. Thus injury is a divine 
function. In the famous Bhagavad Gita, Lord Krishna shows the hero 
Arjuna that all the warriors he is about to kill in battle have already been 
devoured by the Lord personified as Time. “You are merely the 
instrument” (11.33). He teaches “Do your duty without the sense of 
personal ownership over the actions” (2.45). This refers to a real state of 
awareness and cannot be contrived. No one can attain such a state by any 
act of the mind or will. That state spontaneously arises by genuine 
surrender, which is the complete relaxation of the heart. 


go GRETA AA: 
om haridasvaya namah 


65. The one with yellow or greenish horses (Ashva). 


The dawn is what proceeds the Sun and is thus poetically 
described as the horses of its chariot. | often wondered about the word 
‘Harit’ (Harid) as it seems strange that it means both yellow and green. It 
also pertains to Mercury and we find both colours used for that planet. 
One day | was sitting on top of a mountain in India watching the sunrise. 
Then I saw that there is a greenish tinge to the sunrise. Orange blends 
into yellow and then green. In fact, as the Sun is about to break over the 
horizon, the atmosphere splits the light into the rainbow giving rise to 
these colours. It is also probably why the Sun’s chariot is said to have 
seven horses. As the sky is seen as blue during the day, it is the yellow- 
green colour that is most obviously proceeding the Sun's rise and is thus 
attributed to the horses of the chariot. The seven horses are also 
considered to be the seven days of the week. These are ruled by the seven 
visible ‘planets’, Sun, Moon, Mars, etc. This sequence is called the Vara 
Chakra (Vara is a weekday). It is extensively in Jyotisha. For example, the 
lord of the day on which one is born determines one’s natural vitality. 


J BN AA: 


om Sauraye namah 


Sirya, the Sun 51 


66, The powerful and valorous. Born of a hero or heroism itself (Shauri). 


A name given to Lord Krishna and many other faces of the divine. 


do aera aa: 


om daSadiksarmmprakasaya namah 


67. flluminating (Samprakasha) the ten directions (DaSadik). 


There are ten directions, eight on the compass, north, north-east, 
etc., along with up and down. The Self shines in all directions. In other 
words, this light is not restricted by the limitations of our ordinary range 
of cognition. The Vedic ‘eye’, that all-knowingness that arises with the 
awakening of consciousness, sees and blesses in every direction. A ruler 
also has to attend to all corners of the territory as well as the airspace and 
the underground activities. 


In anyone's life, it is important to have every direction 
illuminated. In the Vedic chart, we see which directions are shadowed 
and thus a potential source of trouble. This mantra supplies one remedy. 


Ho WARIS AA: 


om bhaktavasyaya namah 


68. Attached to the devoted (Bhakta). 


A Bhakta is one who is completely faithful to the object of his or 
her devotion. Vashya, literally means ‘obedient to’. Thus the one who is 
the object of the devotion, becomes the servant of the devoted. 


Devotion is the characteristic of an open heart. One may open up 
a little out of self-interest or because one thinks it could give benefit in 
some way, but this attracts neither God nor others. To whatever extent 
we are truly open and can give our full attention, those embodying truth 
respond. Openness has nothing to gain. This is what makes it so 
attractive. 


Shri Ramana Maharishi, one of the greatest of the saints of the 
20% century, said there were two people of whom he was afraid. These 
two were truly devoted in their hearts. He knew that he would have to 
give them whatever they asked for even if it contravened a cosmic law. A 
saint can contravene the cosmic law because they embody the power 


52 Yoga of the Planets 


which makes the law. In Sanskrit, this is called Aishwarya (Sun 63). 
However, the maker of the law does not wish to contravene it. Even in 
this exalted condition, some kind of unique ‘fear’ can arise. 


fo SGA Aa: 


om ojaskaraya namah 


69. Shining. 


Opening to the inner being, brings the light of the Self to the 
physiology. Thus, it is the cause of Ojas, that finest essence which causes 
the body to glow. Tejas, mentioned earlier (Sun 43), arises from Ojas. 
Everyone has a degree of this and the constant experience of pure 
consciousness causes the face and the aura to shine. That is why saints 
are portrayed with a glow around them or a halo. 


$o Alaa Aa: 
om jayine namah 


70. The victor (Jayin). 


The Sun is the natural owner of that state that is always 
victorious. The Sun is exalted in Aries. Exaltation is where the Graha 
shines brightest, figuratively. When a person is born with the Sun in Aries 
(usually between April 15 and May 15) there is the sense of being 
naturally victorious. This peaks at 10 degrees Aries, corresponding to 
birth on or around April 25. 


The planetary Dasha or cycle of the Sun is only six years, the 
shortest of all the Grahas. When it starts, there is often a focus on empire 
building. Initially this can succeed. However, after a few years it may 
collapse or the person may make his or her own retreat as the Solar 
influence transforms. The Sun, as we have seen, represents the highest 
truth and is not greatly concerned with the things of this world. Even if 
we toy with its outer power, we soon begin to cherish what is more 
fundamental, the pursuit of self-knowledge. Thus, the focus naturally 
changes from outer power and influence to inner wisdom. 


Surya, the Sun 53 


do Waleed AA: 


om jagadanandahetave namah 


71. The cause (Hetu) of the bliss of the whole world (/agadananda). 


All joy ultimately arises from the field of pure being. It is Sat 
(pure) Chit (consciousness) Ananda (bliss). Because it is bliss, then 
anything that touches it stirs That, like drops of water blown off the 
surface of the ocean by the wind. In the Bhagavad Gita (6.28) it says, 
‘Touching that wholeness (Brahma Sansparsha) is infinite joy’. In the 
Upanishads (Taittiriya 1.6) it says, ‘Every being is born of bliss, is 
sustained in bliss, and returns to bliss.’ The Gita and the Upanishads are 
great texts of the Vedic literature that pertain to the knowledge of the 
Self. 


A good king is a source of joy for all the people even as a bad king 
makes everyone suffer. Everyone in a position of leadership must 
remember this. Even the smallest self-interest makes you a bad leader as 
those you lead pay many times for every little bit you take. Those who 
serve well are followed by the blessings of those they help, even after 
death. 


r ~ AS 
% FAAS taastaya FA: 
om janmamrtyujaravyadhivarjitaya namah 
72. He removes (Varjita) the miseries (Vyddhi) associated with birth 
(Janma), death (Mrtyu) and ageing (Jara). 


That Self is neither born nor does it age or die. Remaining within 
the cycle of birth, ageing and death, it is ever the same. That is what you 
really are. There is nowhere to go to know it. We only have to desist from 
struggling with the cycle and all that it brings to our experience. It is just 
a show. 


Ho HATA AA: 


om aunnatyapadasaficararathasthaya namah 


73. He is stationed (Stha) in his chariot (Ratha) moving (Saficdra) in a 
high place (Aunnatyapada). 


54 Yoga of the Planets 


The high place refers to high moral conduct. Those who live by 
truth are indicated here. Stha points at an established condition, not a 
fluctuating one. That state is said to be a state of surrender because one is 
simply allowing the inner Being to guide one’s life. There are no doubts. 
The cravings in the mind have nothing to attach to. Through spiritual 
practices and contact with the wise, this condition becomes established. 
Initially it fluctuates as the mind tries to retain its rulership over the life. 


This name expresses that state of unbounded awareness. This 
can only be known by being St for there is no satisfactory description. 
Fortunately, many people have had a taste of this at some point in their 
lives. For example, the usual sense of limitation may dissolve as a person 
falls asleep. Once known, one can readily understand the sense and 
essence of the scriptures, 


Ho STARR AA: 


om asuraraye namah 


74. The enemy (Ari) of the demonic forces (Asura). 


Asura is one who is not drinking the nectar, is not touched by the 
immortal, is not a knower of truth. This is the condition of the mind lost 
in its hopes and fears. The mind itself is not the enemy. Once the Self or 
inner Sun is known, the mind becomes calm. The Asuric tendency is 
pacified. 


$0 PRAGA AA: 


om kamantyakaraya namah 


75. Making (Kara) lovely (Kamaniya). 


The Solar energy makes one desirable or charming. It is the 
expression of truth. When we follow the voice of our inner being, it is just 
like obeying a good guide. It has none of the energy of taking to fill our 
own need. It is such a quiet voice, like an inner knowing. We all have it, 
but we have to cultivate a habit of following that knowing. 


 ASIQAA AA: 


om abjavallabhaya namah 


Surya, the Sun 55 


76. The delight (Valiabha) of the lotus flower (Abja). 


When the sun rises, the lotus flowers open. He delights them. The 
Chakras in the body are said to be lotuses. They open in the light of the 
inner Sun of truth. It is a commonly held misconception that the fight of 
the Self shines forth because of the Chakras opening. This name makes it 
clear that they open due to the shining forth of the light of the Self. That is 
why forcing the bodily Shakti through extreme techniques can lead to a 
distortion of both the subtle and the gross within. The name also means 
the beloved of the Moon. The Sun is the king and the Moon is the queen. 


$0 ecdale: WAN AA: 


om antarbahihprakasaya namah 


77. Shining both within (Antar) and without (Bahih), 


This name makes it clear that both the inner Sun and the outer 
visible Sun are indicated by all of the names. 


AP aA: 


om acintyaya namah 


78. Beyond thinking, inconceivable (Achintya}. 


The Taittiriya Upanishad (2.4) says about the Self, ‘from where 
the mind and speech turn back’. Pure Being is beyond our thoughts and 
feelings. Just as the power and glory of the outer Sun is hard to conceive, 
so is the nature of the Self. 


5 ~~ 
SH ACABW] FA: 
om atmartpine namah 


79. The form of the Self or soul. 


The Atma is the pure Being as knowable by the individual soul or 
Jiva in Sanskrit. The Jiva can know the Atma and then it naturally 
identifies with it. This name confirms the use of the Sun in Jyotisha as the 
indicator for the Atma. 


56 Yoga of the Planets 


3 AQ AH: 


om acyutaya namah 


80. Imperishable (Achyuta). The Self does not perish with the ageing and 
death of the body. 


fe a‘ 
3 AACS TH: 
om amaresaya namah 


81. The lord (/sha) of the immortals (Amara). 


The Sun is the longest living form in the solar system. The laws 
which brought the Sun into existence will still be there when it has 
burned out. The inner Sun is the container and thus the lord of all its 
powers. These are the laws of nature personified by the gods. They are 
immortal in so far as they are the power of that from which everything 
arises. This name points to that state which transcends the changing 
factors of life. 


Amara also means gold and mercury. The metal of the Sun is 
gold. Its gem, ruby, is best set in gold. Mercury is meaningful here 
because, while it is normally extremely poisonous, once processed it 
becomes a medicine that is said to give relative immortality. In the Vedic 
alchemy there is a 16-stage process through which Mercury is modified. 
It is repeatedly heated and dried with different herbs. It requires great 
care and takes about nine months. Some friends tried for many years to 
complete this process. However, every time some interruption took place. 
Even if there is a small defect, the whole work is spoilt and one has to 
start over. Eventually, they managed to process through eight stages and 
their Guru said that was good enough. Even this is a powerful medicine. 
The 16-stage product is said to bring instant perfection as in the ability to 
fly with even a pinhead of it put on the tongue. 


Fortunately, living in truth does not need physical medicine. It is 
satisfied by even a moment of realization of pure being. If the bodily 
existence is prolonged, then that depth of knowing would increase more 
and more. It is said one yogi came to know that he would meet his Guru 
only after 1,400 years. Since being born and reborn is a troublesome and 
uncertain business he used special techniques and, perhaps, medicines to 
keep himself alive until he met her. Prolonging life has a value especially 
for the self-realized, but only from the point of view of difference: the 
body and individual experience. From the cosmic perspective, nothing 


Surya, the Sun 57 


that we do or do not do matters. Even a long life on Earth is just a micro- 
moment to the universe. 


er i Tae Aa: 


om parasmai jyotise namah 


82. The light (/yotis) for another (Parasmai). 


The Sun shines and others enjoy. The mind sees and understands 
because of the Self. If there is no thinker, then there would be no thought. 
Nothing remains for the truly wise but assisting others to know that 
wisdom. There appears to be a great sacrifice in this. For example, in the 
crucifixion of Jesus or those saints like Shri Amritanandmayi Ma who 
constantly absorbed the ‘sins’ or suffering of others. The great ones 
certainly experience physical pain by doing this, but that is no deterrent. 
They are just fulfilling their purpose. 


So HECHT AA: 


om ahaskaraya namah 


83. The creator of the day (Aha) or, by inference, day and night. 


The Sun is the cause of the day so it is said to be the ruler of it. 
Aha can also suggest unrestricted (‘a’) joy (‘ha’). In English we speak of an 
‘Aha’ experience which brings a moment of joy and inspiration. 


go TIA AU: 


om ravaye namah 


84, The creative power. 


Ravi is one of the most common names used for the Sun in Hindi. 
Rrr is the vibration from which everything emerges (vi). Ravivar is 
Sunday. It is a Sanskrit term also used in Hindi. The Egyptian Sun god is 
called Ra. 


The three names, Sun 84-86, form a trinity: The Creator, the 
Maintainer and the One who wields the power to dissolve everything, 
These are the three powers of the Supreme Divine (see also Sun 58). 


58 Yoga of the Planets 


$0 ES TH: 
om haraye namah 


85. The maintainer. 


This name (Hari) could be derived from the two previous names. 
Hari is a common name for Lord Vishnu, which is the aspect of divinity 
that sustains everything. ‘Ha’ is joy, ‘ri is vibrating, expressing, knowing. 
Everything is sustained by an awareness of bliss. Those who find little joy 
in life, die soon by their own disinterest in life. Those who constantly find 
new joy in life, blossom in their health and well-being. It is the nature of 
things. Let those who seek pleasure at the cost of the well-being of others 
pay careful attention. The result is certain to be a curtailment of their 
happiness and longevity. 


There is a wonderful story from the great epic, the Mahabharata, 
which illustrates this. The great kings, the Pandavas, were performing a 
profound Vedic Yagya (ceremony) involving complex rules and huge 
charities. It was attended by all the great sages and was considered the 
height of sanctity. Towards the end, a strange mongoose, half of whose 
body was gold, entered the centre of the Yagya and rolled in the dirt. 
Then he sat up and declared to the Kings and sages that their Yagya was 
worthless. They were amazed and surprised and asked the extraordinary 
mongoose to explain himself. He said that there had once been a drought 
and the people were dying. One family had only a few grains of rice left to 
feed their children. Then a monk had come to their door begging food. 
The parents had lovingly fed the unexpected guest, as is the tradition in 
India and many other countries. Subsequently they all died and attained 
Moksha. 


The mongoose explained that he, by chance, rolled in the dust of 
that house on one side of his body. He had turned gold due to the extreme 
sanctity created by the generosity of this family. After that he had been 
looking for another holy place that would turn his other side gold, but 
even the great ceremony of the kings was inadequate. 


I was lucky enough to see a pair of golden mongoose on top of a 
small mountain in the Himalayas. They appeared on my birthday as I was 
walking towards the Kassar Devi temple near Almora. The underside of 
these animals is golden and the back is dark brown. This may be the 
animal referred to in the story. 


This name is applied to many gods and planets. It also means a 
ray of light, fire, the wind, or a yellow or greenish colour as discussed 
earlier. 


Surya, the Sun S9 


do TATA Aa: 


om paramatmane namah 


86. The Supreme Soul. 


In Advaita, Paramdtman is the highest Brahman, free of qualities. 
When associated with qualities, it is lshwara or Lord Shiva. He has the 
role of controlling the dissolving or destructive powers. This name tells 
us that we can see the Sun in the Vedic chart not only as the individual 
sou! but also as the Supreme Soul. Just as we can see the relationship 
between the individual and the Guru or guruhood by seeing the position 
of Jupiter, we can see the relationship to the highest, to God, through the 
position of the Sun. This is possible because it is the view from the 
individual human being that is revealed. The chart is not telling us about 
the Supreme. 


This name explains why kings and rulers often feel that they 
have a divine right to rule. It is a complete illusion but a predictable one. 
It approximates the truth only for those who have no personal self- 
interest. There must be no trace of selfishness. This is why renunciate 
saints are called Maharaj (king) in India. 


The best arrangement of government is that some competent 
ruler is there who respectfully follows the advice of a self-realized soul. | 
came across such a situation in Africa. A president who was genuinely 
free of corruption had a realized Guru from India. The President kept his 
cabinet clean, though the lower ranks were frequently corrupt. The saint 
had armed guards because he had repeatedly saved the life of the 
president and was thus the prime target of the enemies of the president. 
The whole arrangement was very private as far as the ordinary public 
was concerned. As it happened, the government refused to spend their 
meagre foreign exchange resources on whisky and the like, due to the 
need of buying medicine and other essentials. This caused a powerful 
foreign government to feel that they were obstructing free trade. That 
government sent its agents in and manipulated the media until the 
president was removed and replaced by someone who proved to be very 
corrupt. 


There is a delightful story about this President's Guru. Once, it 
was the day celebrated as the birthday of Lord Krishna. He prepared 
some food and took a vow that he would not eat until the Lord had taken 
the food offered to Him. So he waited. Hours passed. He was beginning to 
doubt his faith then, suddenly, there was a bang on the door. He opened it 
and found a cow. It stepped forward, gently pushing him aside, walked 


6&0 Yoga of the Planets 


across to the offering plate, took a chapati (piece of bread), turned and 
left the room. Krishna is famous as Gopala, the protector of cows. 


3 deus a: 


om tarunaya namah 


87. Ever youthful. 


Taruna is tender, soft, newly born. Pure tenderness is the nature 
of pure consciousness. It gives youthfulness to those who are strongly 
associated with the Sun in their chart. This is why the Sun can indicate a 
youth in Prashna. Prashna is the science of answering questions. If one is 
asked about a person, one has to distinguish the age group of that person 
from the Grahas involved. 


This mantra can help cultivate tenderness. This is key to 
developing wisdom and enlightenment. Everything that is hard inside has 
to soften to attune to reality. Astrophysics can make us feel that the 
universe is a very harsh and dangerous place, and yet all that we see on 
Earth has also arisen in this universe down to the finest and most tender 
touch. In the beginning there was nothing whatsoever, until space and 
time burst forth. Eventually stars and black holes emerged, and then 
came life itself protected by the same forces that would destroy it 
elsewhere. 


It is said that if consciousness is sufficiently refined, even the 
body can go beyond the sphere in which it is influenced by the forces of 
material nature and become immortal and invincible. Perhaps in this era 
of humanity, such a state is not possible, but the Vedas claim that in the 
far past such a state could be attained by a rare few. It is also said that 
when the bodily airs or Pranas are balanced, the body becomes light and 
can fly at will. In this state, itis free from ageing. A story from Sri Lanka 
tells us that, much before the coming of the Portuguese sailors and 
soldiers some 500 years ago, the morning sky was darkened by perfected 
ones flying north to bathe in the Ganges. Gradually the number decreased 
until, around the time of the foreign arrivals, there was none. I met an 
astrologer who watched the great sage Swami Sivananda floating in the 
air just above the Ganges during his early morning meditation. He would 
sit on a windowsill of his room by the bank of the river and then gently 
drift up and out across the water. I have heard other such stories with a 
believable provenance. 


Having fostered the delicate development of biological life to the 
higher forms, eventually a state of life can arise that can advance out into 


Surya, the Sun 61 


the dangerous arena of space where no ordinary human can safely 
venture. To travel out to Mars and beyond, we think of protecting 
ourselves with various shields and devices. However, only the most 
refined awareness can actually associate with the vast and violent 
material reality of the universe due to its intimacy with the infinitely 
dynamic reality beyond the material. 


do FUT AA: 
om varenyaya namah 


88. The pre-eminent, most esteemed or desired. 


Varenya is also saffron, a colour close to that of the Sun especially 
on rising and setting. Saffron, the plant, costs more than gold by weight. 
Its colour is associated with purified souls who have risen above the 
worldly desires. The reason for wearing saffron coloured garb is to show 
that one has taken the fires of the householder life inside. When the cloth 
is taken, the funeral rites are done and thereafter the person may not 
cook or perform the fire rituals. Everything of the mundane life must be 
foregone. 


% Dern Wd AA: 
om grahanam pataye namah 


89. The ruler of the planets (Graha). 


Graha is a seizer (or grasper). As the Pati or lord, the Sun should 
be considered the dominant Grahaa. It is studied for how the matters of life 
are seen with respect to the individual soul or sense of self. 


In English, we talk about planets in the chart but Graha refers to 
the archetypal powers that cause us to pass through various experiences. 
We understand those powers from the map of the sky. It is not necessary 
to hypothesize some physical influence on us by the actual planets, such 
as Jupiter and Saturn. 


The Sun shows the maturity of the soul. The Moon shows the 
physical, mental and emotional spheres of life. The view from the Moon is 
the primary study for most worldly matters. The Ascendant shows the 
intelligence and is also important in understanding our experiences. 


62 Yoga of the Planets 


$0 MICH AA: 


om bhaskaraya namah 


90. The cause of brilliance or that which makes things clear or evident. 


Bhaskera also means majesty, glory and desire. We need light to 
see and we need a quiet space internally to properly understand. Once we 
have put down our issues and agendas that cause so much noise in the 
brain, then everything becomes clear without any mental effort. 


fo aleneaeafeara aa: 


om adimadhyantarahitaya namah 


91. The one who has no beginning (Adi), middle (Madhya) or end (Anta), 


The Supreme Being alone is free from (Rahita) a beginning, 
middle or end. The state of Samadhi is the even state of the mind or 
intellect. In that state, there is no time and hence no beginning, middle or 
end. These are the defining factors of worldly things. The recognition of 
Samadhi comes about by the Grace of God or the Guru. We can practise 
many things such as meditation but, unexpectedly, one day we realize 
that we are That and always were. 


There is no real meaning in saying that "I realized the Truth at 
such and such time and in such and such place.” It never occurs in time 
and space. Later on, we may think there is some association between a 
place and time and that cognition but even the memory cannot be 
localized. Those who know what | am saying will understand, otherwise it 
may seem strange. 


$0 GReAISM A: 
om saukhyapradaya namah 


92. He gives the fruit of happiness. 


Sukha is pleasure and happiness. Saukhya is what arises from 
that. It is true felicity. Pleasure is always rising and falling. The essence of 
that is the joy that exists irrespective of the changing experiences.. 


Strya, the Sun 63 


 Ghoswlai Gas aA: 


om sakalajagataém pataye namah 


93. The lord (Pati) of the whole world (Sakaia jagatam). 


He presides over the wholeness of everything that exists. 


do aa AH: 


om siryaya namah 


94. The flow of creation. 


‘Su’ has a sense of flow and ‘R? is the primordial creative 
vibration. ‘Su’ also says that it is good. Who is to find fault with anything 
under the Sun? That is why we feel free to criticize that which we call 
‘dark’ but we know that even the darkness is an expression of the same 
power as the light. Just as by creating the day, the night was created. 


Surya is said to be the energy of the Sun in springtime. That is 
when we feel this flow of sweetness most. 


d Hag AA: 
om kavaye namah 


95, The omniscient. 


Kavi indicates a sage, one who has supreme knowledge. This is 
the naturat indication of the Sun. It signifies the Self and the Highest. Kavi 
is also a poet. This is discussed more under Venus. The very best of 
poetry, to my mind, has been inspired by the touch of truth as in Rumi, 
Wordsworth and Whitman. 


ARTA AH: 
om narayanaya namah 
96. The person who moves (un the cosmic waters). 


Narayana is a famous name for the divinity. It is the ultimate 
causal principle. This is like the Taoist saying ‘Wu Wei’: action and yet no 


64 Yoga of the Planets 


action, movement on the ground of no movement. This seems to be pure 
paradox but it is an obvious and unmistakable experience that arises with 
sufficient quietness of consciousness. Another meaning is ‘the refuge of 
mankind’. This name can be taken as the first in a sequence describing the 
birth of time and space. It is said that the Creator was born of a lotus that 
arose from the navel of Lord Narayana. Then, he caused the whole of 
creation to manifest, 


oe OAT A: 


om paresaya namah 


97. The supreme (Para) ruler (fsha). The lord of Para or the field of the 
transcendental. 


Para is the great Oneness. St is its own inherent intelligence. 
There is none other. Para is the husband of Prakriti, nature, in the sense 
that the Supreme Oneness is the spaceholder, or the male element, of the 
dynamism, which is the female, the Shakti. This establishes the identity of 
Surya with Shiva. In the Vedic chart, Sirya can indicate the worship of 
Shiva as well as Shri Rama, who is identical with Narayana. Para is also 
the finest of the four levels of speech or expression. It is the Veda whose 
vibrations give rise to everything. 


, r»» 

30 THATS HA: 

om tejorupaya namah 

98. The one with a shining (Tejas) form (Rupa), 


The first and finest expression of space and time is a brilliant 
light. The poetic Sanskrit sages say that it is ‘brighter than a thousand or 
millions of suns’. For example, Ganesha is hailed as ‘sdrya koti 
samaprabha’. 


do of ATTRA aA: 
om Ssrim hiranyagarbhaya namah 


99. The most auspicious golden womb (Hiranya Garbha). 


Sirya, the Sun 65 


This is the first manifestation of the universe or its most subtle 
condition. Shri often indicates the Divine Mother, since naturally She is 
the one with the womb carrying the whole creation. That womb, being 
golden and shining is indicated by the Sun. This indicates the fertility or 
creative aspect of the Sun despite its strong masculine appearance. Shrim 
is the Bija or seed mantra of Lakshmi, the Goddess of wealth, beauty and 
victory. These names (99-102) bring out these key sounds and suggest 
their sphere of effects. 


3 &f GUIRY AA: 


om hritmn sampatkaraya namah 


100. The giver of abundance (Sampat). 


Hrim is the Bija of Bhuvaneshwari, the queen ot Shiva, the Lord of 
the world. It indicates fascination, dissolution and the essence of 
everything. Hrim is also the Bija recited by the Sun as it moves. 


% tgpreera aa: 


om aim istarthadaya namah 


101. The giver of desired wealth (/stértha) or purpose of life be it Dharma, 
fulfilling one’s duties; Artha, wealth; Kama, pleasures; or Moksha, 
liberation. 


Aim is associated with the Goddess Saraswati who rules over 
wisdom. These three names (99-101) signify the Shaktis of maintenance 
(Lakshmi), dissolution (Bhuvaneshwari) and creation (Saraswati). The 
order is very significant. A-U-M represents creation (A), maintenance (U) 
and destruction (M). Therefore, the order in these three names signifies 
U-M-A, the name of the Goddess Parvati, wife of Lord Shiva, who obtained 
her status through unwavering meditation and devotion. 


$ H Quaala FA: 


om am suprasannaya namah 


102. Serene, gracious and favourable (Suprasanna). 


66 Yoga of the Planets 


Am is to serve and honour. The Sun is the Paramatman. By 
following the Will of God, which is our very Self, we get the highest 
serenity. 


fo aia an: 


om srimate namah 


103. Possessing all auspiciousness (Shriman), all glory and fortune. 


ae eis 
0 Add 4A: 


om sreyase namah 


104. The best of everything (Shreyas). 


The most blessed. This indicates that the Sun is the significator of 
auspicious results and the highest good. This can be be applied 
particularly in Muhurta (elections) and Prashna (answering questions). 
Commonly, the Sun is taken as a malefic. It is egotism that gives the 
malefic results. Otherwise, the Sun indicates most noble qualities. 


So Beaaya aH: 


om saukhyadayine namah 


105. Giving (Dayin) felicity, joy (Saukhya). 


$0 AeA Aa: 


om diptamirtaye namah 


106. Whose form (Murti) is light (Dipta}. 


The Sun’s position in the Vedic chart shows how we shine, how 
our face glows and how our actions appear to others. The Sun is naturally 
an Agni or fire Graha along with Mars and Ketu. It also relates to vision. 
Those born at sunrise can have some eyesight deficiencies. Perhaps their 
own glow makes seeing other things a little less easy! 


Surya, the Sun 67 


do TARaSrTAdag Aa: 


om nikhilagamavedyaya namah 


107. One who knows (Vedya) all (Nikhila) the sacred lore (Agama). 


Through study and realization, those ruled by the Sun can 
embody the highest truth as well as enjoying broad knowledge. Vedya can 
also mean that they are recognised for that knowledge. That which is 
given by the Sun, shines in the world. 


& Aaa Aa: 


om nityanandaya namah 


108. Eternal bliss. 


The last name leaves us with a promise and an assurance. The 
Sun is said to be Krura (cruel) but as the Karaka for the Self, the Atman 
and the Paramatman, the soul of all, it is the very fount of eternal (Nitya) 
bliss (Ananda). To know that bliss and to live it fully requires a perfect 
surrender to the natural law, which resides within the Self. Such a 
demand may seem cruel when we are distracted with many other things 
but it is not inherently so. 


The Sun requires that we live according to natural law. Like the 
government, it forces us to obey its laws and punishes us if we stray. The 
Sun in the Vedic chart shows where we may be forced to do things we 
dislike. Bliss is the eventual fruit of our acceptance. The worship of the 
Sun consists of selfless service. It is hard but itis really good. It is the way 
to eternal bliss. 


This mantra helps us to rise to the Highest 


Pad Fa 


~ 


Om tat sat 


68 Yoga of the Planets 


PER ASOT RiS = 


Fd 


Chandra, the Moon 


Chandra, The Moon 69 


CHANDRA, THE MOON 


om srimate namah 


1. Salutations to the one possessed of all auspiciousness. 


The Vedic Astrological chart shows one’s level of Shri or fortune. 
The chart is created by the movement of the Moon and its interplay with 
the Sun. In India, interpretation of the chart starts with the position of the 
Moon rather than the Sun for issues of personal experience and fortune. 
The Sun is like the soul because it moves steadily on in its course without 
variation. The Moon is like the mind as it rises and falls with its reflection 
of the sunlight. Among the main significations of the Moon are the mind 
and the mother. 


In India, mothers and married women are addressed as Shrimati. 
This is the feminine form of this name. The male form is Shriman. The 
meaning is the same: one who is possessed of Shri (pronounced Shree). 
Shri indicates all kinds of auspiciousness, It is a name of Lakshmi, the 
Goddess of wealth, victory and beauty and it also stands for the number 
108. In Vedic Astrology, the zodiac is divided into 108 Padas or quarters. 
There are four for each Nakshatra or lunar mansion (4 x 27 = 108), and 
nine for each Rashi or sign (9 x 12 = 108). This is the key division of the 
zodiac and is especially related to the movement of the Moon, which 
defines the Nakshatras. 


The day is naturally divided into four parts. These are separated 
by sunrise, midday, sunset and midnight. The Moon moves through one 
Nakshatra each day (approximately), so we can say that the division of 
the Nakshatra into four parts or Padas follows naturally from the four- 
fold division of the day. As each sign contains nine Padas, this is the 
natural division of each zodiacal sign. The fact that there are 12 signs 
follows from the approximate rate of 12 full moons that occur in the 
course of a year. As the Moon is connected to the Nakshatras, the mother 
is seen from the fourth house. As the Sun is connected to the Rashis, the 
father is seen from the ninth. In this way, the perfect synchrony of the 
Nakshatras and Rashis gives rise to the core concepts of Jyotisha. 


70 Yoga of the Planets 


The Moon's cycle controls the growth of plants and human 
fertility. Research shows that people often relate human beauty to 
fertility. The Vedic texts connect beauty to auspiciousness. Of course, 
there is more to beauty and auspiciousness than physical characteristics 
or age-related fertility. The inner beauty that arises from a sweetness of 
consciousness is the deeper aspect of the meaning of this name. There is 
nothing more beautiful than a pure heart. Later, we see how the Moon is 
related to Soma, the nectar of divine consciousness, which is the cause of 
inner sweetness. 


3 VATS AH: 


om Sasadharaya namah 


2. The one carrying the hare (Shasha). 


This refers to the markings on the Moon that look like a hare, 
rabbit or deer. The Nakshatra called Mrgashirsa, or the head of a deer is 
ruled by Soma which is another name for the Moon. The connection with 
the deer or rabbit is not accidental. They are mild and timid animals that 
appear to be constantly searching. This is the nature of the mind, which is 
understood by studying the Moon in the Vedic astrological chart. 


An old story has it that the markings are due to an incident 
where the Moon saw Lord Ganesha riding on his mouse. The Moon 
laughed and Ganesha broke off one of his tusks and hurled it at the Moon 
creating the marks. Everything about Ganesha is highly symbolic. His 
whole form is said to be a personification of the Om syllable. The mouse 
as the vehicle for such a vast body indicates the relationship between the 
small Jiva or personality and the infinite vastness of absolute 
consciousness. Jt also indicates the Divine consciousness controlling the 
plundering nature of the mind. The single tusk of Ganesha suggests the 
one-pointed nature of that consciousness in its absolute crystal clarity, as 
the mind’s fluctuations no longer dominate experience, 


% Weald AA: 


om candraya namah 


3. The luminous one. 


Chandra is the most common Sanskrit name for the Moon and 
luminosity is its most obvious feature. 


Chandra, The Moon 71 


do arate Aa: 


om taradhisaya namah 


4, The first lord of the stars. 


Tard means star and is also the name of the wife of Jupiter, stolen 
by the Moon. By Tara and the Moon, Mercury was born. Later, the Moon 
restored her to Jupiter after the intervention of the creator Brahma. 


This name also means the ruler of the best of the stars. Rohini 
has some claim to be the best Nakshatra. Itis in the middle of Taurus and 
is fertile by nature. The Moon was given the 27 Nakshatras as wives but 
Rohint proved to be the principal or favoured wife (Moon 20). 


The question of gender arises when discussing the Moon. In the 
West, the Moon is referred to as ‘she’ and in Vedic Astrology, the Moon is 
‘he’ but represents female things. The ancient Egyptians took the same 
view as the Vedic. { will use both genders out of respect for both 
traditions. In the Vedic view, every deity has a male and female 
component. The Sun may be considered male but he is always 
accompanied by his power or Shakti, his wife. The male is said to be 
incapable of accomplishing anything without the motivating force of the 
Shakti. Thus, they are always together. 


The ancient Manu Smriti, the oldest extant law book we have, 
gives some interesting rules or advice for husbands and wives. It says the 
husband should always look to the happiness of the wife. The wife is 
advised to obey the husband and not argue. If the husband suggests 
something that she does not like, it advises that rather than say 
something, she should express it on the face. Whatever our role in a 
relationship, it is always helpful to watch carefully the face of the other 
person and enjoy its tight as we appreciate the Moon at night. 


The Moon, like the Sun, is a royal planet. Those in whose Vedic 
chart these Grahas predominate need to be treated accordingly. Everyone 
deserves respect but the respect we pay to a preceptor (Jupiter person), a 
celebrity (Venus person), an intelligent or skilful person (Mercury), a 
warrior (Mars) or a good worker (Saturn) has its own energy. 


So TAME AA: 
om nisakaraya namah 


5. The maker of the night (Nisha). 


72 Yoga of the Planets 


What is the night without the Moon? Just as the Sun is said to be 
Dinakara or the maker of the day, the Moon is the maker of the night. This 
name by its very sound conjures up the soothing moonbeams cooling the 
heated earth or the cool Moon hanging over fields and mountains covered 
in snow. It is so lovely that Nisha is popular as a girl's name. Nisha also 
means a vision or a dream. They are the creations of the mind. 


$o Dales AH: 


om sudhanidhaye namah 


6. The receptacle or abode (Nidhi) of nectar: 


Sudha means ease, comfort and the nectar of the gods, the Soma. 
The Moon is often associated with nectar and Soma is another of its 
names, After the heat of the day, its cooling beams have a nectar-like 
quality. The orb of the Moon is said to reside at the top of the spine and 
the Sun resides at the base. When the Kundalini energy rises up and 
reaches the place of the Moon, drops of nectar start falling down from the 
disc of the inner Moon and nourish the entire bodily system, subtle and 
gross. Unawakened, circling at the base, the life force gradually dries up 
through our willfulness. Through complete inner surrender, the life force 
arises and remains perpetually risen. 


Inner surrender cannot be described or converted into a formula. 
Egoistic tendencies have to be surrendered but that is not something one 
can simply choose to do. After all, who is choosing, who is doing? The 
simple truth is that one cannot transcend the mind by any effort of the 
mind. As Ramana Maharishi said, the thief (the mind) will not arrest itself. 
That is why people mediate and pray in whatever way they choose to 
wear away their coarseness. When one is ready, one may meet a self- 
realized soul and she or he will help much more than one could ever 
understand. A great soul will pray to God on our behalf and that is the 
key, for such a prayer is always heard. It is very important that one does 
not speak ill of such great souls and if one takes such a guide, one simply 
does what they ask. We can, of course, ask questions and raise doubts. 
Every mentor is a Guru on some level. For some people, the guide may be 
a person. For others, it may be nature itself or one may feel guided from 
within. 


There are no formulas here, everyone has to find their own way 
forward but it is helpful to understand the role of certain mental states. 
These are discussed here because the Moon represents the mind. The 


Chandra, The Moon 73 


Moon is very sensitive and it is the influence of other planets on it that 
gives rise to these various states. 


A. Fear. Fear is there to stop us from advancing. Every gate we approach 
has a guard. The guard has only the weapon of fear. That stops almost 
everyone, A few ignore the fear they feel and pass through that gate. 
There is a true story about a sage from the South of India, Shri 
Shivabalayogi Maharaj, who passed in 1994 shortly before | started to 
write this book. In his youth, he was engaged in very serious practices 
that required following a strict time schedule. Once a day, he would go to 
the nearby river to bathe and then return to continue his practice in his 
little hut. He had to resume by a certain time. One day he reached his hut 
to find a very large cobra standing upright in the doorway blocking the 
path. He waited for it to move but it did not move away. When time was 
running out for him to resume his practice he stepped forward to enter 
the hut and the snake bit him. Inside the hut he collapsed and was 
unconscious for some time. He recovered and resumed his practice, which 
was to obtain the vision of Lord Shiva. After a short time, the vision came 
and around the Lord's neck was the self-same king of the snakes smiling 
at him. 


Another great sage, who was an elder of and well-known to Shri 
Shivabalayogi, was Tapasvi Maharaj. He lived from the 1760s to the 
1950s, He was a prince from Western India and at about the age of 60 he 
returned fram combat to find his wife and son had died. Disgusted with 
fighting he rode to Delhi to request the Mughal Emperor to intervene to 
stop the fighting between the various small kingdoms. After some time, 
he obtained an audience. The Emperor was praying on his beads while 
the Prince talked. When he finished, the Emperor explained that his 
power was not sufficient to intervene but in any case he considered the 
life of a saint far superior to that of a king. 


The Prince rode out of Delhi and when he came to the junction 
where the road to Rishikesh began, he turned North towards the Ganges 
(Ganga). Since time immemorial, those wishing to pursue the spiritual 
path have gone to the Ganga especially where it enters the Himalayas and 
beyond. Rishikesh is that gateway town. As he approached the river, he 
found his way blocked by a large snake. He dismounted, drew his sword 
but was unable to strike the snake as it moved too fast. The snake 
disappeared and he resumed his journey. After a short distance, again the 
snake was blocking the way. Again he failed to strike it At this point, he 
realized this was no ordinary occurrence. He put down his sword, took off 
his helmet and bowed down before the snake. It observed him and then 
quietly withdrew. Shortly after that he reached the Ganga. He wrapped all 


74 Yoga of the Planets 


his gold and jewellery in a pouch, which he hung on the neck of his horse. 
Then he began his quest wearing only his loin-cloth. 


Such moments can happen to all seekers because the energy of 
awakening is snake-like and the final knot to be broken is guarded by the 
greatest fear, the fear of annihilation. The ego is facing its end and thatis 
no small thing, or at east it appears so at the time. Afterwards, it is 
nothing, just like losing a mirage. The lunar nodes, Rahu and Ketu, are 
primarily connected to fear and awakening. 


B. Distractions. The path to God is also guarded by various pleasure 
fields. The closer one comes, the more temptations are presented. One 
can be offered more and more of what the world considers valuable such 
as wealth, sex and power and, eventually, even mystical attainments like 
levitation. In the Yoga Sutras (3.51), the great text of yoga, it warns the 
aspirant not to accept these offers, ‘therein lies danger’. Most certainly, 
progress will end and regress is likely. There is a price for everything. Itis 
good to clearly know what one has to pay before taking anything from 
another. However, everyone has areas where it is hard to have crystal 
clarity. Rahu and Ketu, in particular, create a smoke or covering that 
prevents us from seeing clearly. 


It is wise to completely avoid black magic. There is a wonderful 
story of the great Tibetan master Milarepa. As a youth, some relatives 
cheated his family and took their land. He studied black magic and had his 
revenge by killing them all. Sickened by seeing what had happened, he 
approached a great master for spiritual initiation. The master ignored his 
request and just asked him to build him a house out of stone. Milarepa 
built the house and showed it to the master. He said that it was in the 
wrong place and asked Milarepa to move it slightly. This involved entire 
reconstruction. This was done, but again it was wrongly placed. 


After building the house several times the disciple lost heart. He 
approached the wife of the master who also felt that her husband was 
being unkind and she sent him for initiation to a student of the master in 
another valley. The mantra he gave had no effect so this senior student 
asked if Milarepa had been granted permission from the master to learn. 
Hearing the story, he sent him back to the Guru. The master explained 
that if he had rebuilt the house one more time, his sins would have been 
exhausted and he would have gained enlightenment. As he had failed, he 
would obtain realization through meditation but it would take another 30 
years. There are variations on this story but the idea is the same. For 
example, people with Ketu in the second house, owe a debt to the Gurus. 
They may well be sent on many fruitless errands. The master sees all the 
karma of the student. The student knows very little, usually nothing. 


Chandra, The Moon 75 


C. Confusion. At an early stage in the spiritual path one will have to face 
confusion. It is said that there is no greater obstacle than doubt. This is 
where faith in one’s guide is very helpful. It is rather like having a really 
good GPS navigation system. Suppose one comes to a crossroads with no 
signpost and the way suggested by the system looks to be away from the 
direction one is going. If one accepts that the system is based on good 
maps and good programming, then one goes the way it suggests. 
Alternatively, one may feel doubtful and try all the other paths first. It all 
depends on one's faith. The Guru or guide will start by showing you in a 
clear way that what he or she suggests is right. Later, that help stops and 
then one has to accept that the earlier steps were right and so this new 
advice is also. The Guru is a reflector of one’s own inner guide. Sooner or 
later, one has to find and follow that. Rahu causes doubts and questioning. 
Jupiter gives faith. Both have their own value. If one feels blocked by 
doubt, we can strengthen Jupiter (see the Jupiter names). 


D. ‘t am God’. As Jupiter represents God in the chart, a person whose 
chart is dominated by Jupiter can start to feel like this. When one 
experiences infinite consciousness, one dissolves in the ocean and then 
feels, ‘I am the ocean. However, the ‘I’ that speaks is not the ocean. It is 
just an expression of that like all the individual ‘l’s. The knowing is true 
on its level but that cannot be translated into some concept about the ego. 
As Ramana Maharishi said, there is nothing worse than a spiritual 
somebody. 


This trap is hard to avoid because it is so subtle. Jupiter people 
are often deeply interested in spiritual wisdom. If the Sun is afflicted, then 
the trap is even more seductive. One may have a sense of unworthiness 
that is quite troubling. The automatic tendency is to compensate for this 
by trying to prove that one is worthy. The real answer is to recognize that 
worthiness and unworthiness are equally illusionary. The feeling of 
unworthiness is best patiently born as part of the scenery. Doing this 
without complaint, can bring immense rewards. 


do BERNA AA: 


om sadaradhyaya namah 


7. To be worshipped (Aradhya) always (Sada). 


Once the nectar starts flowing, bliss absorbs our attention and it 
is never lost because nothing else is more attractive. The giving of 
attention is true worship and true surrender. Without this, the attention 
is constantly seeking more happiness and jumps here and there. One 


76 Yoga of the Planets 


whose attention is absorbed in the inner bliss is always worshipped by 
the subtle and gross beings in the universe. She takes nothing but is 
constantly radiating her joy. 


do Add aA: 


om satpataye namah 


8. The lord (Pati) of truth and purity (Sat). 


This name continues the commentary on that state of awakening. 
It tells us that the Moon indicates truth and purity in the chart. Through 
the associations and positions of the Moon, one can see to what extent 
this is found in the life of the individual. We evolve with time. As we 
mature, the finer values of the planets can blossom. If we feel stuck, 
mantras like these can help. 


Every tough combination in an astrological chart, like the Moon 
with Saturn, suggests some outer disturbance (eg. depression) but also 
has an inner promise (e.g. life in bliss), Those who have a more 
profoundly anchored inner life may not experience the outer effects to 
the same extent, and pass through the inner transformation promised 
even at a young age. 


So ATTA AA: 


om sadhupijitaya namah 


9. Worshipped (Pujita) by the awakened. 


Sadhu means those who have ‘done well’ with their lives. The 
Moon rules over those who lead a pure life. What is a pure life? Life is 
pure when the heart is free from anger and other disturbances. If anger 
arises, it can be channeled so that it turns into peace and auspiciousness. 
This starts by focusing the energy on the base of the spine from where the 
subtle channels rise up. Pay attention to the breath. 


The state that everyone seeks is the state of eternal contentment. 
How is one to find it ifone is not content with one’s current condition? 
One may be hoping that some switch will flip and then al] the non- 
contentedness will disappear and one will be in bliss, However, it is more 
effective to gently let go of any sense of complaint while practically 
addressing whatever needs to improve in one's life. Practicing 


Chandra, The Moon 77 


appreciation for everyone and everything is most helpful. This is the 
nature of the saints. They serve mankind out of compassion. 


The universe is constructed by another's will as Pataiijali’s Yoga 
Siitras (3.45) and Vyadsa’s commentary on it make clear®. An illumined 
sage will not manipulate this universe because he sees that it was created 
by another whose laws should be obeyed. However, the highest sages can 
choose to project their own. An aphorism in the Satras (3.50) describes 
how omnipotence arises and how, in the letting go of even that, the ‘seeds 
of evil’ are destroyed. The root seed of evil is clearly the option retained 
by the individual to interfere in the natural law. Abandoning that, all such 
seeds are roasted. 


The astrologer has great power because of what he or she knows 
but it is the basic ethic that one never uses that power for one’s own end. 
One can show the client the reality, to whatever extent one is able. This 
vision causes the client to awaken and that is the remedy, All other 
remedies are subsidiary. 


% fades AA: 
om jitendriyaya namah 


10, In perfect control of the senses (Jitendriya). 


Satisfaction is the key to the control of the senses. However, 
lasting satisfaction cannot come about by any acquisition. It arises from 
the inner state of peace described throughout these names. 


The great sage Parashara describes the Moon as ‘unsteady and 
love sick’. Ruling over the mind and the emotions, it wanders endlessly 
seeking satisfaction. This mantra is a remedy. Once the attention is caught 
in the sweetness of that state of surrender, the senses come to rest. 


do AAI Aa: 


om jayodyogaya namah 


11. The one who is victorious (aya) through perseverance or continuous 
effort (Udyoga). 


6 Yega Philosophy of Patafijali. Trans. PN. Mukerji, Univ. Of Calcutta, 1977. 


78 Yoga of the Planets 


This also indicates success in business ventures or the carrying 
out of one’s duty. The Moon often indicates those with public duties. 
These require perseverance and diligence. Jayodyoga also indicates the 
steadiness of the inner surrender. This is the ultimate victory. 


The Moon has a wandering tendency and this mantra can serve 
as a remedy. In order to go beyond the mind, one needs to take up and 
maintain the practices given by one’s Guru or mentor whether the Moon 
is waxing or waning. Sometimes this proves difficult. Calmly reestablish 
one's practices as soon as one can, without feeling dejected about any 
failing. Astrology shows when one will face difficulties like this. They are 
limited by the length of the cycles involved. 


Practices evolve. If sitting for meditation turns into a process 
done with open eyes and movement, it is only natural for some. The key 
to practice is effortlessness. Even when some doing is involved, the 
gentler it is, the sweeter the effect. Gentler is closer to God. It is thé 
essence of non-violence. The Universe may appear full of creation and 
destruction but its essence is exquisitely tender. 


do SaaeRIaCHTa AA: 


om jyotiScakrapravartakaya namah 


12. The originator (Pravartaka) of the disc of light. 


The words Jyotish Chakra pertain to both the Svadhisthana or 
second Chakra and the Anahata or heart Chakra. Whether the mind is 
quiet or busy with needless thoughts depends on the purity of the second 
Chakra. The Moon, being related to both sensuality and the feeling heart, 
naturally takes us into the realms of these Chakras. Pravartaka is also the 
arbiter. Lust can arise in the second Chakra while peace arises in the 
heart. Where we focus depends on the Moon or mind. 


We can also understand this name as reflecting how it is that the 
movement of the Moon through the Nakshatras gives rise to the 
astrological effects - the flow of life on Earth. 


do acaTASTa 7A: 


om vikartananujaya namah 


13. The younger to the Sun (Vikartana), or near to him like a brother or 
sister, 


Chandra, The Moon 79 


This brings out the close relationship between the Sun and the 
Moon and indicates the lesser or dependent position of the Moon as the 
reflector of the Sun's light. The relative velocities of the planets must have 
been one of the first things observed by our ancestors and they are used 
in various fundamental ways in Jyotisha. For example, the order of 
lordship of the signs is based on the relative velocities. Vikartana also 
means to cut asunder or divide, while Anuja can mean before. This means 
that we put the Moon’s sign Cancer before the Sun’s sign Leo and divide 
the zodiac into two between them. Then the rest of the lordships are 
assigned in order of decreasing speed, which also indicates increasing 
distance from the Sun. Mercury rules two signs either side of Leo and 
Cancer. After that, Venus owns two signs, then Mars, Jupiter and Saturn 
each rule two. This is how Saturn owns the signs Aquarius and Capricom 
opposite Leo and Cancer. 


The velocity scheme is used to determine the planetary hours 
from which we derive the rulers and names of the days of the week. In 
this, the Sun replaces the Earth as the velocity of the Sun is actually the 
velocity of the Earth. The order of planets from the Sun gives the relative 
speeds and the Sun takes the position of the Earth between Mars and 
Venus. The Moon is the fastest of the celestial bodies. Taken slowest to 
fastest, this gives Saturn, Jupiter, Mars, Sun, Venus, Mercury and the Moon 
as the lords of the hours. The hour or Hora of the Sun starts from sunrise 
on the first day of the week, which is called Sunday. The 25t' hour from 
that is the first hour on the next day and is ruled by the Moon. The next 
day is ruled by Mars and so forth. 


The core principles of Jyotisha are based on astronomy coupled 
with acute observations of life. For example, the basic division of the 
zodiac is one minute of arc and the rising point of the zodiac, the 
Ascendant, crosses one minute in the time of a single human breath. The 
standard unit of time in ancient India, was the ghati and that is how long 
it takes the Sun to cross one minute of arc. All ancient Vedic units of time 
were multiples or fractions of a single average breath. 


This is akin to the measurements of distance like a foot or an 
inch. An inch was originally one thumb’s width while a digit was a finger’s 
breadth. In India, they used the angula, which is also a finger’s breadth. 
Twenty-four angulas make a cubit. The cubit, the distance from the elbow 
to the tip of the middle finger was widely used throughout Classical 
Europe and the Middle East. The modern measure, the metre, was 
originally proposed by Christopher Wren in the UK and Gabriel Moulton 
in France to be defined based on a pendulum with a one second period. 
The second is one quarter of a typical human breath. The second as a unit 
of time was introduced to Europe by Al-Biruni, the great Muslim scholar 


80 Yoga of the Planets 


who extensively studied the arts and sciences of India. Remarkably, these 
important measures are almost exactly related through two of 
mathematics’ and nature’s most important constants. The cubit is @-1 
feet. The metre is 6/1 cubits. € is Euler's constant. I is pi. 


do Ga AA: 


om viraya namah 


14. The powerful one. 


The Moon may be lesser than the Sun but we are immediately 
reminded that she is full of strength and vitality (Vira). As the Moon 
waxes, life gets more vital. This is the traditional time for planting. 
Weeding is done during the waning phase, as the life force is 
withdrawing. The waxing and waning affects the tides of the ocean and 
people's behaviour. It is a very powerful force. Those ruled by the Moon 
may be gentle and yet they can also be true heroes. 


do fasta aa: 


om visvesaya namah 


15. The Lord (/sha) of all. 


Vishva is the universe. It is all things and that which is all 
pervading. The power of the Moon is not confined to any category. All 
rulership involves the mind and the heart. It is impossible to function 
without these spheres indicated or ruled by the Moon. This also makes it 
clear that the mind rules life as there is no experience or action without 
its agency. Even though the saul witnesses the mind, the decisions are all 
made in the mind, and so it appears as the lord. 


do fags Aa: 


om vidusaémpataye namah 


16. The Lord (Pati) of the wise (Vidus) or learned ones. 


This name shows that the Moon indicates the wise and learned. A 
pure heart and mind are a prerequisite to being truly wise. 


Chandra, The Moon 81 


fo STRUT AA: 


om dosakaraya namah 


17. Free (Akara) from reproach (Dosa), faultless. 


If the heart and mind are completely pure, there is no mistake. 
Since selfishness gives rise to all kinds of errors, relaxing that leads to 
purity of heart and renders one naturally free from mistakes. The nature 
of a mother is to care for the child without any calculation of self-interest. 
The stronger and less afflicted the Moon is in a person's chart, the more 
nurturing an attitude they are likely to have. 


The influence of other planets on the Moon causes various 
degrees of Dosa. For example, the influence of Saturn can make one 
introverted. If one can step back, one might realize that that is a kind of 
self-absorption and hinders our ability to care for others. The flip-side is 
that those whose Moon is influenced by Saturn can appreciate the 
suffering of others and are much benefitted by giving service to those in 
need. Further, the introspection and periods of retreat that it often leads 
to can be most beneficial. The influence of Mars can make one rather 
impatient and willful along with being very dynamic and even athletic. 
The influence of Rahu, the Northern eclipse point, is capable of making 
one deeply empathetic. The downside is a tendency to be fearful and have 
a poor self-image. In India, the worship of the Goddess Durga is 
recommended to overcome such difficulties. She carries many weapons 
so facing Her is an exercise in overcoming fear. If fear is not addressed 
one may feel the need to try and control one’s circumstances, which can 
cause tension with others. 


One smal! exercise for any kind of fear is to consider, “What is the 
worst thing that could happen?” Whatever it is, then one can review how 
one would cope with that. Eventually, one will get to a place where one 
says, “Yes, | can do this.” The worst fear is usually around dying. Of 
course, death is inevitable but we have to find our own realization about 
it and whatever suffering we imagine might come along with life’s end. 
Fear is rooted in the Dosa, which is external to the soul. This name tells us 
that the natural state of the mind is free from Dosa and thus, free from 
fear, anger and misery. Whatever emotions arise, there is always a part of 
one’s awareness that is not disturbed. Repeating these names and 
meditating on them can gradually help. 


Another meaning of this name is the creator (Kara) of the night 
or darkness (Dosa). We can infer that the mind, which the Moon 


82 Yoga of the Planets 


represents, is the source of both fault and faultlessness. As it is often said, 
itis allin the mind. 


30 Sega AH: 


om dustadiraya namah 


18, Far away (Ditra) from wickedness (Dusta}. 


A pure mind is free from sin, Itis important to accept that we can 
only find a fault in another, if that fault lies in us. If a public figure makes 
repeated speeches condemning certain behaviour, then that is surely that 
person’s problem. The ancients believed that the greatest praise that a 
person can be given is that they were never heard speaking ill of anyone. 


# feud an: 


om pustimate namah 


19. Nourishing (Pustiman). 


Pusti is also breeding and rearing and is related to the Moon’s 
connection with the womb and motherhood as a whole. it is about 
growing and increasing. The Moon is the principal energy for growth and 
is known to influence the growth of plants. It indicates strength and 
plumpness. Later in life, lunar energy can create a certain roundness. 


Pusti is also indicative of wealth, property, means of comfort, 
richness, magnificence, development and perfection. Man indicates the 
possession of these. The centre of the lunar sign, Cancer, is the Nakshatra 
Pushya (Pusya), a name that is derived from the same root and indicates 
blossoming. 


de reas AA: 
om-ststapatakaya namah 


20. He protects (Palaka) the learned and the wise (Shista). 


The Moon is connected to teachers. The Nakshatra Pushya in the 
centre of the Moon’s sign Cancer has as its Vedic ruler Brhaspati, the Guru 
of the gods, He is said to reside in the Great Bear (Ursa Major). This 
contains the stars the Vedas cal] the Sapta Rishi or seven seers, which fall 


Chandra, The Moon 83 


in Pushya. These stars are said to be the seven great Gurus who guide the 
welfare of mankind. Their wives, except for one, Arundhati, reside in the 
Pleiades, the group of six stars in Krittika Nakshatra, in the sign of Taurus. 


The six wives were exiled due to a suspicion of infidelity with the 
fire god Agni, later disproved. The one wife, Arundhati, who remained 
with her husband Vasistha, did so due to her extreme chastity. No one 
could even question her, showing how purity can overcome even the 
worst destiny. Arundhati is Alcor, the smaller star in the double star in 
Wrsa Major. Pushya is said to be good for everything except marriage 
because of fidelity issues or fears related to this constellation. 


Both Taurus and Cancer are related to the Moon. The Moon is 
exalted in Taurus where it is most fertile. The exaltation occurs in 
Krittika, which is followed by Rohini, which is said to be the Moon's 
favourite Nakshatra. It is actually true that in many months the Moon can 
take a little longer to cross Rohini than other constellations. Rohini is 
connected to the sowing of seed. 


The story goes that the Moon was married to the 27 Nakshatras, 
the daughters of the progenitor Daksa. Seeing him favouring Rohini, 
Daksa cursed the Moon with a disease that causes degeneration. As the 
world was being deprived of the light of the Moon with its nectar and 
growth energy (Pusti), the gods appealed to Daksa. He modified the curse 
to be an alternation of growth and decay, waxing and waning. 


Pushya, the centre of Cancer, is related to the public role of ruling 
and guiding. It has a caring energy due to the Moon’s motherly 
characteristic. Its planetary ruler is Saturn’, which stands for democracy. 
However, it carries the weight of authority. Its deity, Brhaspati, is not only 
hailed as the Guru of the gods but is also said to be the lord of the great 
(Jupiter 97) and the lord of all (Jupiter 105). While Taurus bears, 
nourishes and holds, Cancer can guide, care and protect those who follow 
faithfully. 


The Divine Mother is said to be Gurumurti or the One taking 
embodiment as the Guru. Thus, every Guru is an appearance of the Divine 
Mother. The true Guru is the perfect integration of power and absolute 
tenderness. The great souls have a fully developed inner feminine. They 
are always tender and gentle while surgically cutting the roots of 
ignorance in those who surrender at their feet. The principa! place of the 
Guru is in the sign of the Mother, Cancer. Jupiter is exalted here in the 


? Each Nakshatra or lunar mansion has a planetary ruler used in astrological 
calculations as well as a Vedic deity. 


84 Yoga of the Planets 


lunar mansion Pushya. This exalted Jupiter is fully exemplifying 
Gurumurti. 


a SERA 7a: 


om astamtrtipriyaya namah 


21. Beloved (Priya) of Shiva and of the whole of nature. 


Lord Shiva is hailed as Astamurti. He is so fond of the Moon that 
he adorns His head with her. Astamirti can indicate the whole of nature 
that is eightfold. In the Vedas, it speaks of this eightfold nature. These 
eight always include the five great elements, earth, water, fire, air and 
space. The other three can be taken in various ways such as the mind, 
intellect and ego or the Sun, the Moon and the initiator of sacrifice 
{Yajamanas). This is not different because the Sun indicates the ego, or 
fundamental sense of individual existence, the Moon is the mind and the 
Yajamanas is the intellect that decides the steps to be taken. Life itself is 
the sacrifice. All of the relative existence is made up of the intermixture of 
these eight. 


The Moon is dear to nature, as she is the cause of its growth and 
development. Everyone feels a fondness for the mother principle, 
wherever one finds it. This helps to protect the most crucial of natural 
functions. 


The Sama Veda is the second principal text of the Vedas, after the 
Rig. It is largely comprised of sung hymns from the Rig Veda. in the Sama, 
it says that when the eightfold melts into oneness, it cries: ‘Ashta rodati’. 
It cries because its nature as eight is being broken down into oneness. As 
soon as the boundary or the attachment to the differentiation is relaxed, 
waves of bliss are produced. From that arises Jyoti or the light of life. In 
this way, the Sdma Veda describes our evolutionary experience. Every 
time we let go of some issue or attachment, there is an internal or even 
external crying, and then a wave of relief that can turn into pure joy. Life 
gets a little lighter, a stage more enlightened. This is the process of 
awakening. 


No issue is worth hanging on to, however precious, because that 
is enough to sustain the addiction to difference and keep the full light of 
life hidden. Lord Shiva exemplifies the state beyond difference. He, that 
state itself, carries the experience of difference mediated by the Moon or 
the mind on his forehead as a slim crescent. It is there as a mere 
decoration and in its most refined or minimized form. The crescent 
Moon's presence means that in the enlightened state there exists just 


Chandra, The Moon 85 


enough of the mind to maintain experience without all its wavering or 
craving tendencies. 


30 WAed AA: 


om anantaya namah 


22. The endless (Ananta). 


While ever waxing and waning, the Moon continues, So does the 
mind or the activity of nature. 


So FUASHSILHM AA: 


om kastadarukutharakaya namah 


23. The axe (Kutharaka) cutting the tree of misery (Kastadaru). 


The mother is always there to wipe the tears of the children. The 
type of ruler indicated by the Moon is committed to relieving the 
suffering of the people. The compassion of the Guru strikes at the root of 
the illusion, which we mistakenly buy into and from which, ultimately, all 
our suffering comes. We long for union because our individual egos are so 
many fragments of the great Mother seeking the great Father, the eternal 
Oneness. First, one identifies the goal externally and try many things to 
attain it. Along the way, one faces many difficulties because what we seek 
has to be soughtin competition with others. These troubles make us lose 
interest gradually in the outer stuff of life and eventually we realize that 
the goal must be within. At this stage, we are coming close to realizing the 
ultimate truth. 


$6 CAAA AU: 


om svaprakasaya namah 


24. Shining by the light (Prakdsha) of the Self (Sva). 


The Sun represents the self. The Moon shines by the light of the 
Sun just as the mind sees by virtue of the fact that we exist. Svaprakasha 
can also mean self-illumined, in the sense of not illumined by another. In 
the Yoga Sutras of Patafijali, it argues that while the mind is not self- 
illumined, it arises out of the heart, which, being identified with pure 


86 Yoga of the Planets 


consciousness, shines as the Self. Therefore, the Moon represents the 
mind and the heart. 


s SX 
36 FARMCAa AA: 
om prakasatmane namah 


25. Whose very soul (Atman) is shining (Prakdsha) or is light itself. 


The soul or essence of the Moon or mind is the pure light of 
Being. Moon 24 and 25 indicate that someone with a strong and 
unafflicted Moon in their Vedic astrological chart naturally shines with 
the light of the Self. It is a characteristic of Divine Incarnations like Shri 
Rama and Shri Krishna that they have a strong Moon in the first house of 
the chart. That means the Moon was rising over the Eastern horizon at 
the time of birth. 


om dyucaraya namah 


26. Moving (Chara) in the heavens. 


This also means that the Moon is sometimes seen during the day 
(Dyu - daylight) and that when it moves it shines (Dyu - brightness). This 
also illustrates how the inherently unmoving absolute moves within itself 
and that movement causes a glow or light. That is how it is both darkness 
and light at the same time. Its unmoving characteristic is often known 
first and then it appears to be total darkness. When the absolute’s inner 
dynamism awakes in our awareness, then it shines. First, one knows 
silence. As one gets used to that silence, one comes to know its inner 
dynamics. This happens by itself, it just takes some time. This is the same 
process as described in all the creation stories as in Genesis in the Bible, 
and in the Manu Smriti in the Vedic literature. In the beginning, there was 
darkness and void and then there was light. 


The Biblical story of the genesis is like the Big Bang theory where 
the universe appears out of nothing. Physics has shown that the absolute 
zero of the vacuum of space, which is empty, is full of virtual dynamism so 
that incertain special circumstances, it glows. 


In the process of enlightenment, first the inner silence and its 
dynamics are known. Then the dynamism ‘within’ is allowed to stop or 
‘die’. This is to return to the Pure Being but it is not the same as the 


Chandra, The Moon 87 


earlier stage. This is the ultimate letting go. Nothing except absolute truth 
and pure knowing remain without any sense of individuality. It just is. 


$0 Cadi A: 
om devabhojanaya namah 


27. The food (Bhojana) of the gods (Deva). 


The gods are said to owe their immortality to drinking the Soma 
or nectar. In the ninth Mandala or section of the Rig Veda it repeatedly 
says ‘Indu flow for Indra’. Indu is the Soma and is another name for the 
Moon. Indra is the chief of the gods, and symbolizes the wholeness of our 
own consciousness. The flow of the Soma is invoked for our nourishment. 
This name elaborates on the previous one. It is the movement of the 
immoveable that generates the Soma and that causes the glow. The 
impact on the body is the creation of Ojas (Sun 43 and 69), so the skin 
shines. Ojas is basic to the immune system, just as Soma is that which 
sustains the gods or natural law. It has been called the glue of the 
universe. 


When the immovable is not known, then the physiology ages and 
even society degrades. When some members of society are living in the 
bliss of truth, then it sustains the integrity of their environment. This is 
described in the scriptures and is intuitively understood everywhere. 
Hence, spiritual communities have always attracted public support in the 
expectation that they would cultivate this in themselves. 


HO AHOMANTG AF: 


om kaladharaya namah 


28. Having (Dhara) digits (Kala). 


The Moon as it waxes and wanes is said to have digits. As we only 
see the Moon for part of each 24 hours, each time it appears it is a little 
less or a little more. These digits are related to the Tithis or lunar days. 
There are almost 30 days between full Moons, so there are 15 digits or 
lunar days in each half of the Junar month: the waxing and the waning. 
Each Tithi has a goddess or divine energy associated with it. The worship 
of these, called Nityas, is a key part of the elaborate ritualized practice of 
Tantra in India. That is why the great mantra is said to have 15 syllables 
(Panchadashi) or 16 (Shodashi) if one counts the junction point between 


88 Yoga of the Planets 


the two halves, a transcendental point. Though they are related, the 
mantra one finds commonly written is not the mantra that is given to the 
initiate. | have observed that it is very important to learn the Shodashi 
only after one has been practicing the Panchadashi for an extended 
period of time. The Shodashi mantra is complex and intended for 
renunciates. 


& leaded AA: 
om kalahetave namah 


29. The cause (Hetu) of time (Kala). 


The Vedic calendar is based on the lunar month so in this sense 
the motion of the Moon defines time. Unless the mind moves, there is no 
sense or experience of time. When the mind stops, we are simply resting 
in eternity, pure consciousness. This is Samadhi in which 100 years 
seems to be not even a moment. It is highly analogous to Einstein's 
Theory of Relativity. A body moving at the speed of light, like light itself, 
knows no time and no change. 


So Bd AA: 


om kamakrte namah 


30. The maker (Krt) of pleasure (Kama). 


Kamakrt is the creator of desire as well as pleasure. Ordinarily, 
desire torments us with a sense of needing something. On the other hand, 
when the silent mind is just starting to move there is a ripple of bliss. It is 
a wave of the pure consciousness, stirred by the movement of the mind. 
All real joy arises in the same way, from a movement out of or within 
silence. Comparatively, the pleasure that arises when we get what we 
want is so slight and brief to be scarcely worth calling pleasure, even 
though this pleasure is also provided by the mind. 


The Moon stands above the spinal column at a high point of the 
path of the Goddess Kundalini. When She reaches there, then the orb 
starts to drip nectar. This nourishes the whole body and is indescribably 
sweet. 


Chandra, The Moon 89 


$0 HAC AA: 


om kamadayakaya namah 


31. The giver (Dayaka) of pleasure. 


Kama is pleasure, sensuality, desire, longing and the Moon causes 
or imparts this. Moon 30 says that she creates desire. This name has the 
sense of fulfilling it. Kama is also a name for the Cupid. 


BGO Aa: 


om mrtyusamharakaya namah 


32. The destroyer (Samharaka) of death (Mrtyu). 


If there was any doubt about the meaning of the previous name 
(31), this makes it clear that the pleasure referred to was the dripping of 
the Soma or nectar, as this is the cause of the destruction of death. The 
Soma is said to be the nectar of immortality. It comes with the arising ofa 
state of consciousness that is eterna! (Moon 22 and 30). 


Maharishi Parashara describes the Moon as ‘love sick’, which is a 
translation of Madana. This can mean lust but primarily it means 
delighting, exhilarating (literally ‘maddening’) or intoxicating. This is how 
one feels when the delight of that nectar starts flowing. The flow of the 
nectar within averts death, the body starts to shine and ageing is delayed. 


B ¢ 
30 AACS AA: 
om amartyaya namah 


33. Immortal. 


Amartya refers to a state of consciousness that is capable of 
moving without moving. It is a state that never dies. It is beyond the body, 
both its subtle and gross forms. This name can be used to support a 
theory that the mind, or some aspect of it, is carried from life to life. 
People do remember mental images and information from previous lives. 
{ do, and there is abundant research evidence for that®. 


8 ep. https://med.virginia.edu/perceptual-studies/ 


90 Yoga of the Planets 


PACA IBAaaH AA: 


om nityanusthanadayakaya namah 


34. Causing (Ddyaka) the regular (Nitya) practice of religious rites or 
austerities (Anusthdéna). 


Like all these names, this one has an outer and an inner 
indication. The outer indication is clear. The Moon in the chart shows the 
propensity for such practice and the course of the Moon defines the 
religious calendar. All the practices are regulated by the lunar months 
and sequence of days. One living in a state where there was a continuous 
flow of inner Soma nourishes the whole of nature. This consciousness is 
truly Nitya or eternal. 


In Vedic times, a Soma Yaga or ritual was performed at the 
beginning of the lunar year and was said to sustain the gods. It is believed 
that if the regular practice of the Soma Yaga stops, then the climate will 
go out of balance and disaster will befall mankind. These days, the 
performance has become very rare, maybe once or twice in a decade, 
Some experts are still there to do it but it requires considerable funds 
though the amount is entirely insignificant compared with the cost of 
even a very small drought. With the rising challenge of climate change, | 
hope donors will come forward to sponsor these Yagas. 


So AUTH AA: 


om ksapakaraya namah 


35. Fasting. 


Ksapa@ is the night, Kara is to create. Ksapa is fasting, abstinence 
or performing penance. Akara suggests abundance. One simple meaning 
is the creator of the night, while the other is frequent or repeated fasting. 
Naturally, we fast at night; at least we should for good health. In addition, 
most fasting is done according to the lunar or the solar-lunar calendar. 
Ramadan is based on a purely lunar calendar while Lent and fast days in 
India are based on the solar-lunar calendar, where each month runs from 
New Moon to New Moon or from Full Moon to Full Moon. In either case, 
there are 30 lunar days in a month and is equivalent to about 29% 
calendar days. For example, many people fast on the Ekadashi. This is the 
11% Tithi or lunar day. 


The inner indication is related to identification. The mind 
experiences its objects through the senses. In the process, if the 


Chandra, The Moon 91 


awareness of the pure consciousness or the unmoving element is lost 
then the mind eats, as it were, its objects and becomes dull. The 
enlightened experience the world but are not lost in it. This is true fasting 
or abstinence. It promotes crystal clarity. 


Jo ettqqraa aA: 


om ksinapapaya namah 


36. Thinning or destroying sinfulness. 


This elaborates on the benefits of fasting as just described (Moon 
35). When the Moon wanes, the emotional body appears to become 
increasingly dark. This can make for unhappiness or rather a frustrated 
willfulness. Gently resting inside that darkness awakens the real light of 
life. One lets go of the demand that one should feel this or that. This 
demand is the Papa or sin, 


As the Moon waxes we enjoy the rising energy in everything. As 
it wanes or becomes increasingly Xshina, letting go and letting be 
internally dissolves whatever identification or illusion arose in the 
waxing phase. 


d aagheealedara aA: 


om ksayavrddhisamanvitaya namah 


37. Waning and waxing. 


Kshaya means decline and Vriddhi means increase. Samanvita 
means possessed of. These follow in a natural sequence. Wherever the 
Moon appears in the chart, the significations must alternatively increase 
and decrease. For example, if the Moon is in the eleventh house of gains, 
then the income can fluctuate. It is wel!-known to gardeners that one 
should plant in the waxing phase and weed in the waning phase. The 
waning phase provides a critical service in the overall progress of life. If 
one’s income decreases then one naturally starts trimming unnecessary 
areas of expense, helping future prosperity. 


92 Yoga of the Planets 


S SdIhMe AA: 


om jaivatrkaya namah 


38. Increasing longevity. 


jaiva is that which belongs to the individual soul. Atr increases. 
Ka pertains to or causes Jaivatr. The principle possession of the individual 
soul is a certain span of longevity. This is initially given by the parents, 
primarily the mother indicated by the Moon. Since the Moon rules the 
natural fourth house, the mother gives %. As the father is seen in the 
ninth house, he gives !/9, The sum of these two is 13/3.. If we say that the 
body can live for 100 years, then 100 x !3/36is about 36 years. It is well 
known that the strength of the body builds up to about 35 and then starts 
declining. | remember being told this when I was about 30 and the 
amazement when | experienced the exact truth of it. Up to age 35, one 
feels so strong that the idea of decline seems impossible. 


The Moon's beneficial associations and afflictions in the Vedic 
chart are seen for judging the longevity as well as the entirety of the 
individual's experience of life. Ifa combination in the Vedic chart suggests 
some outcome and itis not associated with the Moon, then it may never 
be experienced. This is why the Moon is given primary importance by 
many astrologers in India. 


J BA AA: 


om sucaye namah 


39. Innocent and undefiled (Shuci). Also a true and faithful friend; the 
sentiment of love; brilliant and shining; one who has acquitted her duty. 


All these are attributes of the Moon. In the Vedic literature it is 
said that women are very pure because each month their impurities are 
discharged through the menses. Further, it says that a chaste woman has 
a special power, that whatever she says will come to pass. Therefore, wise 
people pay such women great respect. Such a one can bless and also, even 
unintentionally, curse. The great saint of India, Ramakrishna 
Paramaharhsa once said about his wife, Shri Sharada Devi, ‘If God is angry 
with you, | can save you, but if she is angry with you, no one can save you.’ 


Chandra, The Moon 93 


$o 3a Aa: 


om Subhraya namah 


40. Shining. Radiant. 


Shubhra also means the colour white and white sandalwood, 
which is an article that can be offered in the worship of the Moon and the 
Goddess along with white flowers. 


do alae A: 
om jayine namah 


41. Naturally victorious (Jayin). 


One with a pure mind cannot be defeated; all the forces of nature 
wil) protect him even if he will not protect himself. One of my favourite 
stories is about a monk who was an ardent follower of St Francis. One day 
he arrived in a village just after a murder had taken place. Seeing a 
stranger, they seized him and asked him if he was guilty. He said 
something to the effect of “surely, | am a sinner.” So they rushed him toa 
tree and prepared to hang him. 


The monk simply accepted everything as God’s will and said 
nothing. Just as they were about to carry out the punishment, another 
person arrived in the village who was acquainted with the monk. He 
immediately stopped them. These sudden swings of fortune had no effect 
on the mind of the monk. He accepted everything as the will of God. 


Jo FARSI AA: 


om jayaphalapradaya namah 


42, Giving the fruit (Phala) of victory (Jaya). 


The Moon often indicates politicians. Astrologically, it is the 
Queen, so it can indicate rulership. This is the fruit of victory in the world 
as victory is an essential ingredient in acquiring and sustaining 
leadership. In particular, if a strong Moon rises in the chart of a person 
seeking higher office, she will be hard to beat. President Barack Obama 
has an exceptionally strong Moon. It does not rise but itis in the 5'* house 


94 Yoga of the Planets 


of power and was fully activated by the Jupiter Moon Dasha at the time of 
his first Presidential election. 


Such victories give temporary results. The real victory is coming 
into a true relationship with one’s mind and emotions. 


3 Gara AA: 


om sudhamayaya namah 


43. The container of nectar or a nectar-like structure such as a royal 
palace. 


Sudhamaya can also mean a watery place, especially a lake or 
river. These are two of the Moon's principal indications. It also signifies 
white or white-washed buildings. 


% Beane aA: 


om surasvamine namah 


44, The lord (Svamin) of the immortals (Sura: the gods or natural laws), 


This indicates the important place of the Moon in regulating 
natural law, such as through the tides and the growth of things, the 
menstrual cycle and the very real effect of the lunar cycle on everyone. 


do WATANASIAHA AA: 


om bhaktanamistadayakaya namah 


45. She fulfils (Dayaka) the desires {/sta) of the devotees (Bhakta). 


Whether the Moon represents the queen, the Goddess or our 
earthly mother, she has to fulfil our desires if we surrender to her. If we 
are full of our self-importance, she will give to us but it may be delayed. If 
we ask the Mother Goddess for something that we cannot acquire with 
our present body, then we may have to take another birth to be able to 
receive it, so if we ask intently in a holy place, we may die soon. From Her 
perspective this is a minor inconvenience. We are so attached to 
whatever body we have that we find this idea hard to bear. Even flies and 
mosquitoes try to save themselves. Such is the depth of the survival 
instinct and the identification with the body. 


Chandra. The Moon 95 


3 afhala FH: 


om bhuktidaya namah 


46. The giver (Da) of enjoyments. 


Bhukti is not just the objects of pleasure but also the mood of 
naturally enjoying. 


do Onarga aH: 


om muktidaya namah 


47. The giver (Da) of liberation (Mukti). 


Whatever the nature of the desire, She can grant it. One of the 
names of Lalita, the playful form of the Goddess, is BhuktiMuktiPradayini. 
This means the giver of Bhukti (enjoyment - literally ‘eating') and Mukti 
(spiritual freedom). Note the order: First the entertainment and then the 
liberation. Some people think that by acquiring liberation (of which they 
have only a misconception) they will ‘fix’ their lives and acquire the 
enjoyments they crave. However, to achieve Mukti, one must completely 
let go of all craving. After that, nothing remains that has to be acquired. 
All the pleasures may present themselves but there is no grasping for 
them, they just remain as they are. 


Tulsidas was one of India’s greatest poet saint. As the story goes, 
in his youth, Tulsidas was totally intoxicated with his new wife. He could 
not get enough of their relationship. After some time she tired of it and 
made an excuse to go for the night to her parents’ house. During his night 
alone, he became so desperate that he got up and went to that house, 
crossing a river using a dead body and climbing to her window by the 
help of a large snake. This is how the story was written to make clear the 
mind of Tulsidas. He was so focused on his goal that he paid no heed to 
the external details of what he was doing. His wife saw his state and, 
doubtless without any regard for the consequences, she said that if he 
was as devoted to God as he was to her, he would easily be in the Divine 
presence. This stopped him in his tracks and he immediately abandoned 
his householder life and took to meditation. As she had predicted, he 
became one of India’s greatest devotees. 


Tulsidas wrote the story of Shri Rama in the vernacular. When he 
first showed his book to the great pandits of Varanasi, they were aghast. 
The story had only been available in Sanskrit. There was such opposition 


96 Yoga of the Planets 


and demands for the book to be burnt that he said “Let God decide”. It 
was decided that the book would be left before Lord Shiva in the temple 
and if He put his mark on it during the night that would show that it was 
fit for publication. If not, Tulsidas was ready to be killed. The pandits 
agreed, The temple was locked and guarded. In the morning, there was a 
clear mark of a trident having been pressed into the front of the book. 
Tulsidas’ Rama Charita Manasa is one of India’s most popular books even 
today. 


$0 Usa AH: 


om bhadraya namah 


48. Auspicious and fortunate (Bhadra). 


The sight of the Moon is always welcome and when astrologers 
are asked a question they consider the Moon as a marker of good fortune. 
Motherhood and married women are also considered very auspicious. 


do WAITS AA: 


om bhaktadaridryabhafijanaya namah 


49. Dispelling (Bhafijana) the poverty (Ddaridrya) of the devotees (Bhakta). 


Wealth is associated with the Goddess Lakshmi and people pray 
to her for wealth. She is normally associated with Venus but Parvati, who 
is associated with the Moon, can equally destroy our poverty. The mother 
is always ready to give to the child. If the Moon is strong and unafflicted 
in the astrological chart, the person is unlikely to be poor. Of course, there 
are other factors to consider but a good Moon indicates a strong mind 
and this is generally sufficient for a person to achieve what they desire. 


a Waar Aa: 


om saémaganapriyaya namah 


50. Fond (Priya) of the songs (Gana) of the Sdma Veda. 


The Sdma Veda is sung, other Vedas are chanted. The Sama is 
said to be the actual sounds of nature’s functioning as we could 
experience it. These vibrations were heard by the ancient Rishis (seers). 


Chandra, The Moon 97 


They are also the sounds of the transformations of consciousness and are 
sung to facilitate the process of awakening. Therefore, it is natural for the 
Guru to encourage the chanting of the Sama Veda in the presence of the 
disciples. 


Many of these names can be seen as referring to an enlightened 
teacher or Guru. If the Moon is associated with Jupiter at birth, one may 
look for a Guru. Jupiter is at its best in Cancer, the sign of the Moon. 


do TATHTA AA: 


om sarvaraksakaya namah 


51, Protecting (Raksaka) everything and everyone (Sarva). 


This is the role of the Divine. The enlightened protect all those 
who associate with them be they human or of another species. The 
mother protects her children and the Moon protects everyone by 
regulating the growth of plants and the water cycles of nature. 


} UPRIRATA Aa: 


om sargarodbhavaya namah 


52. Born (Udbhava) of the ocean (Sargara). 


There is an interesting scientific theory that suggests that the 
Moon separated from the Earth creating the Pacific Ocean. Sagara is the 
ocean or sea and it also indicates the numbers four and seven. The Moon 
rules over the fourth sign, Cancer, a water sign and it could be said that 
the heart gets fulfilled in marriage seen in the seventh house. This is 
because the seventh is the fourth from the fourth house. Certainly, 
marriage or partnership is the basis of motherhood and is the most 
essential aspect of human existence. 


The mind arises out of the ocean of consciousness and this was 
illustrated in the wonderful story of the Samudra Manthana or the 
churning of the ocean. In this story, the gods and the demons cooperated 
in churning the ocean of milk (consciousness) to obtain the nectar of 
immortality (Soma). Many things arose but one was Chandra, the Moon, 
which was given as an adornment to Lord Shiva. Later the Amrita or 
Soma arose. This story makes a distinction between Chandra and Soma. 


98 Yoga of the Planets 


Soma emerges from the internal disc of Chandra when the consciousness 
reaches a sufficient level. To enliven this, Chandra is worshipped as Soma. 


ap Waledhd AA: 
om bhayantakrte namah 


53. Bringing (Kré) an end (Anta) to fear (Bhaya). 


Fearfulness goes with a mind and emotions ungrounded in the 
steadiness of truth or the inner calm. A good ruler also removes fear from 
the followers or subjects. Fear tends to arise from instability. As the Moon 
waxes and wanes, these mantras help us find the stable place within this 
continuous change. 


Fear and faith are mutually incompatible. Fear rises up and tries 
to drive out faith. Faith, being essentially pure, does not fight with fear 
but if we hold onto faith, she will not allow fear to take over. Suppose one 
is faced with a ghost or any type of terrifying situation. If one gives way to 
fear, one can even die of heart failure. If one says, “] trust in God, if He 
wishes, | will not be harmed. Whatever He wishes | accept”, then fear has 
no hold and one’s faith will be rewarded. 


Often problems arise in human relationships because of a lack of 
faith. If one has seen that one’s partner is to be trusted, then, when one is 
gripped with fear or anxiety, one should give him or her one’s trust 
consistently. Forgetting this has been the cause of countless disasters. 
Fear pushes one towards panic and that is when one can make serious 
mistakes. The answer is to find a way to relax or put one’s faith in 
someone who is calm and known to be competent. Most people find this 
difficult because fear is so compelling, It may help to practice facing one's 
predominant source of fear in a very safe place so we can stay calm. This 
is like the people who are afraid of spiders who attend a course to 
overcome the fear. Within a few days, they are calmly handling poisonous 
spiders. A trusted person has taken them through a process of gradually 
overcoming the fear. 


do ARTA A: 


om bhaktigamyaya namah 


54. Attainable (Gamya) through devotion (Bhakti). 


Chandra, The Moon 99 


How is fearlessness obtained? Steadiness arises out of devotion 
which is the purest expression of the heart. Faith is a critical part of 
devotion. The Moon represents the heart and thus devotion itself. 


COR CCOSICH IE caG Eten 


om bhavabandhavimocakaya namah 


55. Freeing (Vimochaka) us from emotional bonds. 


Bhavabandha is the attachment ta worldliness, to the idea that ‘I 
am me and all this is mine’. Truth is like the knowing of an actor ina play, 
He is absorbed in it and yet aware that it is just a part that will soon be 
over. The idea that nothing exists beyond the human life is like the actor 
forgetting that he or she has a life outside of the play. Then he is trapped 
in the brief existence of that play - just an hour or two to live and 
experience. When !{ worked in the theatre, sometimes | felt like that 
because I enjoyed the performances so much. I can remember the pain 
that came with the briefness. 


Thoughts and feelings only know their little scope and their 
desperate impermanence. No wonder we suffer when we identify with 
them, when we take them as our life. This name arises here since 
thoughts and feelings are indicated by the Moon and every ill contains its 
own medicine, 


So SRT a: 


om jagatprakasakiranaya namah 


56, The splendorous (Prakasa) rays of light (Kirana) of the world (Jagat). 


If there is no mind, there is no world. The Moon indicates the 
mind and its light gives us the experience of the world. It also shows us 
what is true when we relax our grip and gently let go of all our issues and 
agendas. At night, it is the Moon that gives us light both outside and 
inside. In deep sleep, the mind gives dreams and revelations. 


Our mother and the Mother are the light of our world. 


{00 Yoga of the Planets 


$0 SBleleeaqhtuls FH: 


om jagadanandakaranaya namah 


57. The cause (Ka@rana) of the joy (Ananda) of the world [fagad). The one 
who gives rise to the bliss of all beings. 


As the Moon waxes, all beings feel more alive. Even the plants 
grow more. Mother and motherhood are the greatest source of joy. Any 
obstacles to this joy are seen as afflictions to the Moon in the Vedic chart. 
Vedic Astrology believes that life can be improved through various 
remedies. 


% fa: agar aa: 


om nihsapatnaya namah 


58. He has no (Nih) rival or enemy (Sapatna). 


A mother’s heart only knows how to give so she has no sense of 
enmity toward others. The Moon alone, amongst the nine planets of 
astrology, sees no one as an enemy. Others, out of selfishness, may see 
her as an enemy. It is natural that the Moon indicates a ruler who cares 
like a mother. 


The two female planets are very different in this regard. The 
Moon sees no enemies and is entirely unselfish. Venus can be selfish and 
may see someone who does not cooperate as an opponent. That is why 
Venus can seek retribution. On the other hand, Venus is by nature very 
friendly. Venus wants to have fun with you while the Moon asks if you 
have eaten. 


do TRIER AA: 


om niraharaya namah 


59. Not eating (Nir Ahdra). 


This name can refer to fasting like Moon 35 or it indicates a 
condition that requires no food to sustain it. This has the same meaning 
along with the inner indication of a state devoid of the idea of ‘me’ and 
‘mine’. Normally, the mind ‘eats’ the objects revealed by the senses but 
there is a condition where they are seen but no identification occurs. This 
may seem to make no sense unless one has experienced it. 


Chandra, The Moon 101 


There are many examples in nature of animal mothers who fast 
for long periods usually for the sake of protecting their offspring. 
Examples are octopuses and whales. There are examples, both in the 
West and the East, of saintly people who have no need to eat such as 
Alexandrina Maria da Costa and Prahlad Jani (see Sun 52) both of whom 
were tested by expert doctors. 


do fafaeang aa: 


om nirvikaraya namah 


60. Unperturbed (Nir Vikdra). 


The Moon is associated with being emotional and thus often 
perturbed. This mantra may help bring more balance. Nirvikara also 
means free from modification or change, including changing the mind or 
purpose, and free from sickness or agitation. It indicates a state of 
consciousness, like the image of Shiva, where the Moon or mind has 
become an ornament. 


30 fRTAaa AA: 
omtmramayaya namah 


61. Without defect, unpolluted (Nir Amaya). 


The Moon is Sattvic or pure by nature and likes its environment 
to be in such a condition. This may be one reason why Cancer and Leo 
sometimes have a problem with marriage. These signs face signs of 
Saturn who is not usually Sattvic. It helps if Saturn is in a Sattvic sign 
(ruled by the Sun, Moon or Jupiter) or associated with a Sattvic planet like 
Jupiter. 


% Pos =oTicaa AA: 
om bhicchaya'cchaditaya namah 


62. Hidden (Acchadita) by the shadow of the Earth (Bhu Chhaya). 


This name shows how well the ancients knew the nature of a 
lunar eclipse. It also tells us how the shadow of matter hides the light of 
the soul, which reflects through the mind or heart. It is not the objects 


102 Yoga of the Planets 


that hide the light but their shadow, which is the belief that ‘I am me, this 
is mine’. This belief is perfectly natural if the Self is not known. Merely 
trying to believe otherwise achieves nothing. If the Self is known, then the 
understanding changes by itself. One sees the Self to be all-pervading. 


30 YSN FA: 


om bhavyaya namah 


63, Auspicious (Bhavya), calm, tranquil, fit or worthy, fortunate, happy, 
handsome or beautiful. 


The Moon and fupiter are the cause of beauty according to 
Maharishi Jaimini. 


So YASH A: 


om bhuvanapratipalakaya namah 


64, Protecting (Pratipalaka) mankind and the earth (Bhuvana). 


Wise rulers, environmentalists and sages could all be indicated 
here as well as the true mother and father in all of us. The 64" name is 
special because it is 4 x 4 x 4 and 4 is the number of the sign Cancer, 
which is ruled by the Moon. The fourth house is the place we feel in our 
heart and where we enjoy our relatives and home. The 4" from the 4* is 
the place of our partner who enchants our heart. The 4" from the 4** from 
the 4" is the tenth house of career and status where we take action so we 
can support our spouse, our home and our society and keep it free from 
poverty and other sufferings. 


A Navamsha is a 108" part of the zodiac. The 64 Navamsha 
from the Moon is considered dangerous as it falls in the centre of the 
eighth sign from the Moon, which shows mortality. This mantra can act as 
an antidote to this danger. 


do RIE 7A: 
om sakalartiharaya namah 


65. Destroying (Hara) all (Sakala) miseries (Arti). 


Chandra, The Moon 103 


This is the role of the mother and the capacity of a strong mind. 
When a strong Moon rises in the Ascendant in the Vedic chart, then the 
person usually tries to relieve the suffering of others. The classic chart 
examples are Shri Rama and Shri Krishna. 


% Gteastaae aA: 


om saumyajanakaya namah 


66. A gentle person (Janaka). 


Saumya is peaceful, mild and gentle. This is the ideal of 
femininity. Naturally, every man and woman has something of both the 
masculine and the feminine in them. Those areas of the Vedic chart that 
are touched by the Moon show more of the gentle caring feminine 
qualities. In English we speak of a ‘gentleman’ or ‘gentlewoman’ 
indicating a kindly person of good manners. 


3 angqalecara Aa: 
om sadhuvanditaya namah 


67. Worshipped (Vandita) or praised by the wise (Sadhu). 


Anyone with a pure mind attracts the plaudits of wise people. 
The wise naturally respect the feminine. If it is part of their religion, they 
often worship the Mother Goddess. What is more precious than the 
mother principle? 


4 ¢ 
3 GaAs FA: 
om sarvagamajfaya namah 
68. Knowing (/fia) all (Sarva) the sacred texts (Agama) or alj kinds of 
knowledge. 


A pure mind is capable of vast learning. It can give an exceptional 
or photographic memory. 


104 Yoga of the Planets 


2 £ 
30 Aqaild AX: 
om sarvajhaya namah 


69. All knowing (Sarvajfia). 


All knowingness is not a result of study. [t is a natural state that 
arises when the mind becomes purified and the awareness fathoms deep 
silence. Close to absolute awareness is a state in which anything can be 
known but those pieces of knowledge are trivial comparcd to the dignity 
of the all-knowingness. Purity of mind is not achieved just by diet and 
fasting even though this may help. One’s Rajasic and Tamasic tendencies 
have to be worn away. Tamas is dullness and activity helps. Rajas is 
constant mental activity that can be calmed by a purer diet, meditation 
and other spiritual practices. Patience and persistence are key. 


do Aeieaeeqeaa AA: 
om sanakadimunistutyaya namah 


70. Praised (Stutya) by the foremost amongst the wise. 


Sanaka and his three brothers (indicated by Ads) were the first 
humans. These Munis are considered immortal. They were born free of 
any craving and pass their days in meditation. This name suggests a 
condition of the mind that is totally at rest 


Sanaka and his brothers are the Devatas associated with the 
Chaturamsha or D4 divisional chart in Vedic Astrology. From this, affairs 
such as happiness and property are determined, which are also known 
from the fourth house in the chart. The divisional charts are subcharts of 
the Vedic chart that come from the division of a sign into a number of 
parts. These charts focus on a particular issue based on the division and 
the method of construction. To make the D4 chart, each sign is divided 
into four. 


The Moon rules over the fourth sign and is thus naturally 
associated with the fourth house and the D4. Hence, the special 
connection with these Munis is mentioned here. This emphasizes that, in 
order to get the benefits of the D4, one needs a pure mind. It is a pure 
mind that attracts the support of the Devatas of the D4. The D4 helps us 
see intelligence, Buddhi, purity, Shuddhi, increase, Vriddhi, and 
perfection, Siddhi. These are the qualities associated with the four angles 
or Kendras of a chart and elaborated in the D4 sub-chart. Nothing is 
achieved without these four ‘Dhis’. 


Chandra, The Moon 105 


$ Pada AA: 
om sitacchatradhvajopetaya namah 


71. Having (Upeta) a white umbrella (Sita Chhatra) as his sign (Dhvaja). 


Traditionally in India, due to the strength of the Sun, royalty and 
high dignitaries had umbrellas to protect them. They are a mark of high 
station. The Moon has a white one indicative of purity or Sattva. 


& faatgra aA: 
om sitangaya namah 


72. Having white limbs or body (Anga). 
White (Sita) means both pale and pure. 


30 FARINA AA: 


om sitabhiisanaya namah 


73. With white (Sita) ornaments (Bhusana). 


White cloth, flowers and ornaments are used in the worship of 
the Moon. 


$ NAAR FA: 
om Svetamalyambaradharaya namah 


74. Wearing (Dhara) a white garland (Shveta Malya) and white clothes 
(Ambaro). 


$0 MATA GSTAMY AA: 


om Svetagandhanulepanaya namah 


75. Anointed (Anulepana) with white sandalwood paste (Shveta Gandha). 


106 Yoga of the Planets 


This name indicates an odour of absolute purity, which is 
essentially odourless. 


Ho PNARAAS AA: 


om dasasvarathasarnridhaya namah 


76. Riding (Sarmradha) a chariot (Ratha) with ten horses (Dasha Ashva). 


The mind functions through the ten Indriyas - the five organs of 
action and the five senses. The five organs of action are the legs, the arms, 
the mouth, the anus and the reproductive organs. The five senses are the 
organs of hearing, feeling, seeing, tasting and smelling. 


Jo ATS AA: 
om dandapanaye namah 


77, Holding (Pani) a staff (Dada) indicating the power of rulership. 


Kings take up the Danda when they have to punish or as a symbol 
of their earthly power like a sceptre. The staff also indicates the spinal 
column and hence the awakened Kundalini. Swamis carry a staff to 
indicate their awakened state or as a reminder for them of what they are 
to attain if they are yet not fully realized. 


30 Tq aa: 


om dhanurdharaye namah 


78. Holding (Dhara) a bow (Dhanu). 


The Grahas or planets are depicted carrying various objects, 
mostly weapons. Each is a symbol. The Moon's sign Cancer starts with 
Punarvasu; it is the first Nakshatra or constellation in the sign of Cancer. 
It has a bow as one of its symbols. The next Nakshatra in Cancer is Pushya 
which has an arrow. Together they can hit the target. A bow represents 
potential. A quiet mind is like a fully drawn bow. 


Chandra, The Moon 107 


do PeePHi sos AA: 


om kundapuspojjvalakaraya namah 


79, Whose form (Akdra) is shining (Ujjvala) with Jasmine (Kunda) flowers 
(Puspa) or it shines like them. 


This is the preferred type of flower for the worship of the Moon. 
Naturally they are white and release their auspicious and romantic 
fragrance at night. 


ASSAM AA: 


om nayanabjasamudbhavaya namah 


80. Born (Samudbkava) of the lotus eyed (Nayanabja). 


The source of the mind is said to be the lotus-eyed One, which 
indicates the divinity or the ever awakened consciousness. Even in the 
unawakened, the mind is there but there is no awareness of the source of 
the mind. When its source is realized, then the divinity from which it 
springs comes to be known. 


Those with a strong Moon associated with the first or second 
houses in the Vedic chart may have beautiful eyes. 


A AAAS AA: 
om atreyagotrajaya namah 


81. Belonging to the family lineage (Gotra) of Sage Atri. 


Atri is especially associated with medicine. As Mercury was born 
of the Moon, he is also of this family or Gotra. Thus the Moon and Mercury 
indicate physicians. Almost everyone of Indian origin knows their Gotra 
or lineage. Each Gotra is named after a seer who is said to be the 
progenitor of that lineage. If one does not know your Gotra, then there is 
a method to choose it from the chart. For this and other uses, each of the 
planets has a Gotra. 


108 Yoga of the Planets 


$0 AeIeaNaqaa AA: 


om atyantavinayaya namah 


82. Extremely polite. 


Vinaya is decorum, courtesy, good manners, reverence, modesty, 
humility and sense of propriety. Atyanta means the ultimate development 
or extent of these qualities. A strong and unafflicted Moon ora chart ruled 
by a good Moon (Cancer rising) or having the Moon in the first house 
(personality) or tenth house (public persona) or as the AtmaKaraka 
(significator of the Self, see Sun 12) can be like this. These qualities are 
expected of people in very high positions in society and the Moon 
represents such people. 


go Aaa AA: 


om priyadayakaya namah 


83. Beloved (Priya). Giving (Dayaka) the feeling of fondness. 


The Moon is the mother. Except where the Moon has some great 
affliction, she is the dearest one for us. Further, lunar influence makes one 
feel fondness or attachment for those things associated with the position 
of the Moon in the Vedic chart. Those with the Moon in the first house, the 
place representing the self, can give and receive great love. This is the 
case for the great Avataras, Shri Rama and Shri Krishna. 


H POUNRGAAOTY TH: 


om karundrasasampotrnaya namah 


84, Overflowing (Sampurna) with the essence or milk of compassion 
(Karuna Rasa). 


The expression ‘the milk of compassion’ comes from the love 
embodied in breastfeeding. The connection with the Moon as mother is 
very clear. Lunar people are very sensitive and capable of deep love and 
kindness. They want to save all beings which is the natural tendency of 
motherhood. 


Chandra, The Moon 109 


HEM AA: 


om karkataprabhave namah 


85. The ruler (Prabhu) of the sign of Cancer, the crab (Karkaja). 


This sign has the Bhava or mood of the Moon. There is a type of 
crab that has the greatest power of grip per unit area in the natural 
kingdom. It is simple to equate this to the human mind. Counting from 
zero degrees Aries, this name (i.e. the 85tt Navamsha) falls near the 
middle of Capricorn, the tenth sign, where the mind pursues its status 
and power. Capricorn is literally opposite to Cancer. 


40 AAS AA: 


om avyayaya namah 


86. Imperishable (Avyaya). 


Even though the Moon waxes and wanes, motherhood and all the 
Moon represents will always be there. The Moon sheds the nectar that 
brings immortality of consciousness and extends the life of the body. 


do ARAMA AA: 


om caturasrasanaridhaya namah 


87. Stationed (Arddha) on a four-cornered seat (Caturasra Asana). 


A square or rectangle can be used to indicate the Moon in 
Chakras drawn for Puja or worship. It emphasizes the connection with 
the number four. Cancer is the fourth sign and the fourth house 
represents mother and has the Moon for its Karaka or significator. 


Chaturashra also indicates the fourth and eighth houses in the 
chart. These are the places of refuge. For protection, one has to 
strengthen the fourth and keep the eighth as clean as possible because it 
is the place of our own faults, including all the accumulation of sins of the 
past. Astrology is especially associated with the eighth house and that is 
why some people are frightened of astrology. 


The eighth house purpose of astrology is to see the punishment 
coming and to understand what voluntary payment can be made before 
the demand arrives. Priests are seen in the ninth house and they can fall 


110 Yoga of the Planets 


due to the eighth because it is the twelfth from the ninth and therefore 
the place of loss for them. This may be why some religious leaders frown 
on astrology, while often consulting astrologers in private. 


AGS A: 


om caturaya namah 


88. Charming, clever and ingenious (Chatura). 


Chatura is also swift, like the Moon relative to the other celestial 
objects. The mind also moves quickly. Chatur is the number four. The 
Moon rules the fourth sign. It is the first of the Moksha or liberation signs. 
In the Yogic literature, the fourth indicates the state of consciousness 
beyond waking, dreaming and sleeping. It is beyond change (Moon 86). 
The mind is not active in that state but it is known as consciousness 
persists. 


& feeqaeara AH: 


om divyavahanaya namah 


89. Having a divine (Divya) vehicle (Vahana). 


The pure mind rides on pure Being, which is pure divinity. 


dy Peeqequesisaara aa: 


om vivasvanmandalajfieyavasaya namah 


90. Hiding the Sun’s orb (Vivasvan Mandala). 


Moon 62 describes the lunar eclipse. This name explains the 
solar eclipse. Literally, it says that the Sun’s orb becomes unknowable 
(Ajfeya) due to the position (Vasa) of the Moon. This also explains how 
the Self is hidden by the mind. Seeing only the products of the mind, 
thoughts and feelings, we miss the One who is the witness of them all. The 
great sage, Ramana Maharishi, advised self-enquiry. This can start with 
the question “Who am I?” or “Where does this ‘I’ come from?” Here ‘I’ is 
the sense of individuality that associates with our mental experiences. 
With constant attention to this sense of the ‘I’, it eventually subsides, 
leading to Self-realization. 


Chandra, The Moon 111 


he aquaea AA: 


om vasusamrddhidaya namah 


91. Giving (Da) abundant and increasing (Samrddhi) wealth (Vasu). 


A strong Moon can make you part of the elite. Alternatively, it can 
make you truly wise if the Moon’s combinations in the Vedic chart are 
favourable for this. The elite have access to material wealth; the wise 
have more internal resources. 


do Fear aa: 


om mahesvarapriyaya namah 


92. Beloved (Priya) of Lord Shiva, the great Lord (Maheshvara). 


The spouse of Shiva is Parvati and She has many names and 
forms. The Moon with Saturn, Rahu or Ketu indicates the names Kali, 
Durga or Chandika. She is pure Mother but her nature is to destroy the 
ignorance. Therefore, She may appear terrific. In whatever form or mood, 
She is most beloved of Shiva. 


If a person's chosen deity is shown by the Moon, there will be a 
preference for the feminine, the Divine Mother, in whatever way She is 
seen in the person’s religion. For the Hindu, this can mean a form of the 
Goddess associated with Lord Vishnu or Lord Shiva. This name refers to 
the Moon as the wife of Shiva. If the Moon is associated with Mercury, 
which indicates Vishnu, then the Goddess can be Lakshmi. Mercury can 
also indicate Tripura or Saraswati. 


$ aledla AA: 


om dantaya namah 


93. The giver or the mild one. 


Danta can indicate one who is restrained or has: their senses 
under control. Such people are mild in manner and generous in spirit. The 
Moon represents donors as well as the liberal minded. Caring for others 
and the environment is natural and without this society tends towards 
collapse. That is why the Moon represents society. 


112 Yoga of the Planets 


I] once was living with a German friend. Both of us were close 
friends with our neighbor, Jane. My friend was a very sweet person but he 
had some issues relating to the Second World War. One day he made a 
remark that was rather anti-Semitic. 1 said, “Do you mean Jane?” She was 
Jewish. He understood and J never heard any such remarks from him 
again. Friendship binds communities together and splitting into groups 
weakens them. People are naturally friendly but religious and political 
leaders often see that exaggerating differences and thereby splitting 
communities boosts their personal power. So it happens again and again. 


The astrological chart presents archetypes in Cancer and 
Capricorn that embody these perpetual problems. Capricorn is the sign of 
big business and the search for power in general. Capricorn has a great 
capacity for good and large companies support vast numbers of people. It 
all depends on the balance between collecting and sharing. An economy 
works if the resources are fully recycled. The present huge economic 
strains that are threatening our world appear to result from the failure to 
recycle. Resources are flowing from the many at the bottom of the 
pyramid and collecting at the top, with insufficient being distributed in 
wages, benefits and social programs. 


The world’s wealthiest man had the great inspiration to 
encourage the billionaires of the world to recycle their wealth and he 
deserves great credit for this. One notes, however, that his personal 
wealth keeps increasing. No doubt itis not for any lack of good intention, 
rather it is very hard for a person to spend such mountains of money. In 
the USA and elsewhere, there is constant pressure on the government to 
reduce taxes for the wealthy. As a result, they tend to go down. This 
exacerbates the problems that threaten the social structure and thus the 
welfare of the wealthy. [t would be much better if the wealthy choose to 
pay more and used their lobbying power to see that it was spent 
efficiently on such things as infrastructure, education and health care that 
directly benefit everybody. This would boost the economy making it most 
unlikely that the extra taxes they pay would actually reduce their own 
abundance. In other words, social responsibility has benefits in every 
direction. 


 FeTemeleoTa aA: 
om merugotrapradaksinaya namah 


94, Circumambulating Mount Meru. 


Chandra, The Moon 113 


This name contains the idea that the Moon is never retrograde as 
Pradakshina means keeping that which you are circulating always to 
one’s right. Meru is the mythical mountain at the North pole. Gotra can 
mean the earth so this name means the Moon is orbiting the earth. It also 
suggests that the movement of the Moon is naturally sacred as 
Pradakshina is a motion made out of giving respect or devotion. Meru is 
associated Tantrically with the spine. The earth indicates the Miladhara 
Chakra at the base of the spine so the name indicates the direction that 
the energy circulates there. Consciousness rotating in that place can help 
to awaken the power of the Goddess. 


Ho TQ AMARA AR: 


om grahamandalamadhyasthaya namah 


95, Standing (Stha) in the middle (Madhya) of the Mandala of the Grahas. 


A Mandala is a sacred diagram. In the diagram in which all the 
nine planets are placed, the Moon should be in the middle. In fact, she is 
normally placed in the top right. Therefore, the Mandala indicated here is 
another one where the Juminaries are in the centre and are surrounded 
by the other Grahas. This is the reality of life because the sense of self, the 
Sun, and the mind, the Moon, are at the centre of our experience 
surrounded by the other parts of Jife indicated by the other planets. 
Similarly, the mother with the father is at the centre of the family. 


de ofa A: 
om grasitarkaya namah 


96. Absorbing (Grasi) logic or desire (Tarka). 


The mind enables and sustains both reason and desire. Tarka is 
both along with philosophy and speculation, doubt and logic. 


$e DEIN aa: 
om grahadhipaya namah 


97. Foremost (Adhipa) amongst the planets (Graha) 


114 Yoga of the Planets 


The Moon indicates rulers such as kings or queens. The Moon 
also plays a pivotal role in the study of the Vedic chart because it shows 
our experience of the world. 


do Rata AA: 


om dvijarajaya namah 


98. Like a king (Raja) amongst the twice-born. 


Dvija usually refers to the learned or priestly people but it can 
also mean the warrior and business classes. In any establishment class, 
the Moon can indicate a leading person. 


% Wasa aH: 


om dyutilakaya namah 


99. Having a majestic (Dyuti) forehead (Laka), 


This can be a mark of those with a strong Moon in the first house. 
Italso means lustrous, perhaps indicating that the inner vision is awake. 


So FATA AA: 


om dvibhujaya namah 


100. Two armed (Dwi Bhuja). 


The Grahas are depicted with two or four arms. Here it is said 
that the Moon has two arms but sometime he is portrayed as four-armed. 
Traditionally, one hand gives boons while another grants freedom from 
fear. If there are only two arms, then there is no hand to carry weapons. 
Thus, the two-armed form is very benign. 


 fgsgiara aa: 
om dvijaptjitaya namah 


101. Worshipped (Pujita) by the twice-born. 


Chandra, The Moon 115 


The Dwija are said to be twice-born because they are reborn 
through initiation into the Vedic studies. This is not just starting school; 
rather itimplies an inner awakening. The study of the Vedas provides the 
understanding of the unfolding experiences within consciousness. In the 
modern context, Dwija refers to every sincere seeker. We honour the 
Moon by respecting the divine creative principle, by respecting every part 
of its creation to the best of our ability and by seeking to have a clean and 
pure heart and mind. 


$0 MSTA TATA aa: 


om audumbaranagavasaya namah 


102. Living on mountains covered in Audumbara trees. 


Naga@vdsa can mean living in a tree or on a mountain. The 
Audumbara trees are found on mountains jn South India and often in the 
areas of sacred places like temples. The Moon is the Goddess and her 
temples are generally found at the top of hills and mountains. Even where 
there is a Devi temple in a valley, there is likely a sister or root temple at 
the top of a neighbouring hill. Nearby, you often find an Audumbara tree. 
When visiting Italy, | noticed that many larger hills had shrines to the 
Mother near the top. This name gives us a clue to this special connection 
with mountains or the sacredness of this particular tree. 


% SaRlS AA: 


om udaraya namah 


103. Generous. Also noble, illustrious, honest, sincere, upright (Udara). 


* “N 
do Geta AA: 
om rohinipataye namah 
104. The ruler (Pati) of Rohini Nakshatra. 


Rohini is ruled over by the divine progenitor Prajapati and as 
such represents great fertility. It is the first Nakshatra after the Moon 
teaches its zenith of purity, its exaltation point, at three degrees of 
Taurus. At that point, the mind, free of confusion, can start to function 


116 Yoga of the Planets 


and do its best creative work. This occurs in the Nakshatra Krittika. 
Krittika and the previous Nakshatra Bharani are best suited for inner 
contemplation to prepare the purity of mind. Once it is achieved, then all 
creativity can arise. (See also Moon 20.) 


2 ~N 

do TACHA AA: 

om nityodayaya namah 

105. Giving endless results (Nitya Udaya). Ever prospering. Eternally 
rising. 


Proper worship as touched on above (Moon 101) has more than 
a momentary result. A quieter, gentler state of awareness is endlessly 
giving its sweetness. In the Vedic chart, a strong, well placed and 
associated Moon can indicate ongoing prosperity. 


% aCe Aa: 


om munistutyaya namah 


106. Worshipped (Stutya) by the wise. 


The word Muni suggests one who has a profound inner quietness 
free of the notions of ‘I’, ‘me’ and ‘mine’. 


do AMARTH AA: 


om nityanandaphalapradaya namah 


107. Giving (Prada) the fruit (Phala) of eternal bliss (Nitya Ananda). 
The Sun gives eternal bliss (Sun 108). The Moon gives its fruit. 


3 THOSIGARTA AA: 


om sakalahladanakaraya namah 


108. Causing (Kara) complete happiness (Sakala Ahlddana). Entirely 
lovely. 


Chandra, The Moon 117 


This name secretly suggests the rare Tantric mantras of the Shri 
Vidya. The Shri Vidya is a very high form of the worship of the Goddess. It 
is intimately associated with the lunar days. There is an important 
associated text (the Trishati) of 300 names of the Divine Mother, 20 for 
each of the tithis or lunar days of each fortnight. Each of the 20 starts 
with a letter of the mantra. 


Sakala is part of the mantra and also indicates the full Moon 
which is the time when the Moon is having all its digits (Moon 28). This is 
associated with the putative sixteenth syllable of the Shri Vidya mantra. 
The sixteenth is the indicator of the absolute aspect, that which is beyond 
the activity of the mind, beyond the rising and falling. This state is 
celebrated in almost all these names of the Moon. 


As in all the sets of names, the 108" mantra of the Moon has a 
special glory. The 108" is connected to the last of the 108 Navamshas in 
the zodiac and naturally represents a completeness of knowledge and 
realization. 


$ TerRiAha aA: 
om palasedhmapriyaya namah 


109. Fond of twigs of the Pa/asha plant. 


The twigs are used as fuel in the fire offerings to the Moon. This 
109th mantra may be a later addition to specify the fuel. In the mantra 
lists, only the Moon and Rahu have 109 and the last mantra of both falls 
far short of the glory of the 108". 


MALU 


oy 


Om tat sat 


118 Yoga of the Planets 


ite 


Li 
base 


8. 
ae 


Mangala 


Mars, 


Mars, Mangala 119 


MARS, MANGALA 


3 Falqara A: 


om mahisutaya namah 


1. Salutations to the son of the earth. 


This first name brings forth the intimate connection of Mars with 
Mahi. the earth and the earth element. Mars, the indicator of the Shakti or 
vital force, is said to be born (Suta) of the earth. This clearly points to the 
base Chakra, which is the place of the earth element in the body. From 
here the Kundalini energy rises when she awakens. Mars is exalted in the 
cardinal earth sign, Capricorn. 


3% Fars AA: 


om mahabhagaya namah 


2. The most fortunate one. 


Maha is a prefix meaning great. Mars has many names starting 
with Maha. One whose Shakti has awakened is possessed of Bhaga or 
majesty. Derived from Bhaga, Bhdga indicates inheritance, in the sense of 
the one who has received great fortune. Mars indicates those with much 
vitality, such as kings and warriors, who often possess great wealth and 
power. In ancient times, these peuple were often addressed as 
Mahabhaga. 


TRS aa: 


om mangalaya namah 


3. The auspicious (Mangala) one. 


120 Yoga of the Planets 


Mars is the ruler of the fire element, Agni. The balanced fire 
quality in a person, which Ayurveda calls Pitta, is compassionate and 
auspicious. Agni can accomplish whatever needs to be done. 


The Bhagavad Gita (2.63) explains how anger disturbs the clarity 
of the intellect and this leads to disturbance of the vital force, the Prana. A 
breakdown in the Prana ruins health and, if complete, is fatal. Later, it 
says, ‘know anger and desire to be the enemies here on Earth’ (3.37). If 
we are prone to anger, it can help to take up some practice along with 
proper diet and environment that will help us keep our cool. Swimming 
and walking by water are two examples of how engaging with the 
environment can help. Avoiding sour and spicy foods can help calm Pitta 
though fresh plain yoghurt is good for balancing Mars, which rules 
bitterness. This and other mantras in this chapter may also help. 


$o ARSE aH: 


om mangalapradaya namah 


4. The giver (Prada) of auspiciousness. 


Not only is he auspicious but he is the bestower of 
auspiciousness on those he favours. This is the way of royalty. Marigala is 
also happiness, welfare and bliss. Al! these things are associated with 
feeling strang. A strong Mars in the Vedic chart makes a person full of 
energy and the urge to be active. If the energy rises through the Chakras, 
well-being turns into bliss. 


Mangala also has the meaning of faithfulness. Married Indian 
women wear a necklace called a Mangala Sutra or thread. Faithfulness is 
the sine qua non for real vitality and bliss in life. To achieve any high goal 
we have to find the right path and the right guide. Through faithfulness to 
these, we will surely succeed. On the other hand, the negative side of 
Mars can show disrespect to the teacher, which is indicated by Jupiter. 
Where Mars is exalted in Capricorn, Jupiter is debilitated. However, when 
Mars and Jupiter work together, great wealth and higher things are 
achieved. This is like the leader who follows the advice of the trusted 
counsellor. it is wise to always encourage the auspicious and faithful side 
of Mars as hailed in this and Mars 3. 


He FSR AA: 


om mahaviraya namah 


Mars, Mangala 121 


5. Possessed of great (Maha) vitality, power (Vira). 


Virility comes from the same root as Vira. Top athletes and all 
heroes are powered by Mars. Mars has to be influential in the charts of 
leaders as well. Aries, the primary sign of Mars, is said to be the royal sign 
as it represents the head. The other royal sign is Leo. Thus Mars and the 
Sun define the executive. If they are strong in the Vedic chart, one tends 
to gravitate towards positions of power. 


$ TERR aa: 


om mahasiiraya namah 


6. The great (Maha) hero (Shdra). One who is most brave and valiant. 


Mars represents the warrior and also the sages. Mars can be 
portrayed as strength in a male or female archetype. Mars holds the 
Shakti, which is the vital force in everyone. Awakening requires Shakti. 
Both male and female saints have a strong or prominent Mars in their 
charts. 


The Tantra teaches that spiritual progress comes from allowing 
the vital energy to get finer and finer. This stops when one seeks pleasure 
from it. Mars thus gets associated with celibacy but this has to do with 
any kind of energy projection. For example, speaking out loud compared 
with experiencing finer and finer stages of thinking in meditation. Many 
are attracted to the teachings of the Tantra but one has to be a hero as 
there appears to be a great sacrifice involved. This is the path of the inner 
warrior. It takes a hero within to surrender unconditionally. 


The path of the outer warrior is well known. Great heroes show 
passion in their competitions. Those who risk their lives to protect us are 
rightly honoured. 


% FaltaqUmala AA: 

om mahabalJaparakramaya namah 

7. One possessed of a great (Mahd) power (Bala) of courage (Parakrama). 
One attacking or endeavouring with great strength. 


The warrior on the outside and the resolute in truth on the inside 
both exemplify the grace of Mars. In the Vedic chart, Mars signifies the 
third house and this makes it the place of Parakrama, which means 


122 Yoga of the Planets 


courage and enterprise. What you choose to initiate, the energy you put 
into it and the fortitude with which you follow it through is all seen in this 
house. Without Mars, how can anything be accomplished materially or 
spiritually? 


If Mars predominates in the chart, one is naturally competitive. 
Being an athlete, police officer, soldier, politician or a lawyer is a proper 
application of this. However, in some cases there may be a tendency to go 
from one fight to another especially if Mars is in the ‘karma’ or action 
house, the tenth. For some professions like boxers and lawyers, this is a 
part of the life they have chosen. For others, it may be an unwanted 
experience. It may seem to be happening by itself but one should consider 
if a subconscious tendency is also involved and try to remedy this. After 
all, Mars also has the power to decide not to fight. Then Mars awakens as 
the Shakti of the spiritual path. 


The true path of Mars is the path of non-violence. Passive 
aggression is perhaps better than active aggression but it is not true non- 
violence. Let us consider a scenario where the peace of society is being 
disturbed. The leader sends the police and the army to quell the chaos. 
This works as long as the bull of the people approve. That means that 
society is fundamentally at peace so force can be used to control a 
disturbance and it is entirely proper to do so. However, if the people are 
not accepting of the use of force by the leader, he should accept the will of 
the people even if it involves his resignation rather than trying to stay in 
power through force. This requires true courage. 


According to the Vedic literature, peaceful people create a 
peaceful environment. This is the core reason why societies all over the 
globe have sponsored communities of religious to spend their days in 
meditation. If they do their duty properly, both they and their community 
benefit because violent tendencies in the people are kept calm by the 
subtle influence. The true path of Mars is to develop this kind of inner 
calm that can genuinely protect the community. The full depth of inner 
peace is not a passive state but the seat of exceptional power as the next 
name indicates. 


Jo HENaa Aa: 


om maharaudraya namah 


8. The very (Maha) terrible or fierce (Raudra). 


The awakened inner Shakti is a great power that is not easily 
faced. Hence, the attempts to awaken it through Yogic practices are 


Mars, Mangala 123 


discouraged by the Gurus unless the practitioner is qualified by their 
depth of surrender and purity of heart. The awakening of the Kundalini 
can be more of a curse than a blessing if brought about by force. The great 
sage, Ramana Maharishi likened it to an elephant let loose inside the 
body. 


Since Mars is our courage, when strong he is most difficult to 
face. People who have both a strong Mars and a strong Sun tend to get 
whatever they want because everyone defers to them. It is not worth the 
cost of opposing their wish. When crossed, they become very fierce. 1 had 
a Guru whose Mars was exceptional. Everyone shook before him but he 
did not try to control my friend, despite his youth, which | believe was 
due to my friend’s exceptionally strong Sun and Mars. I watched the Guru 
using roundabout ways of managing my friend so that he would not feel 
he was being managed. 


People with strong Sun and Mars naturally end up as the boss. 
The Sun is the natural leader but every king needs his general to fight his 
wars, which is the role of Mars. Mars is the commander-in-chief and 
functions as such. President Obama's key planet is Mars in Leo, the sign of 
the Sun. That is why he proved very competent and firm in matters of 
national security. 


SO Fara Aq: 


om mahabhadraya namah 


9. The very (Maha) auspicious and blessed one. 


If the Shakti is awakened when the aspirant is ready then the 
result is pure blessedness (Bhadra). This is the other side of the coin from 
the ‘terrible’ one. 


do Waaaa aa: 


om mananiyaya namah 


10. The one fit to be honoured and respected (Madnaniya). 


Those with a strong Mars are worthy of respect. Natural leaders 
typically expect to be treated with respect and deference. The wise and 
the strong have no problem in giving this respect. It costs nothing and it 
cultures an attitude of respect to all things, something that benefits us all. 


124 Yoga of the Planets 


The influence of Mars in our chart can make respect an issue. 
People may feel that they are not getting the respect they deserve at work 
or at home. It helps to realize that this is more of an internal issue, rather 
than the fault of certain specific people. If one can relax about it inside 
then that is the end of the issue. People will behave however they choose 
and that is not something we can control so it is best not to trouble 
ourselves over it. 


We may have to live or work with someone who flares up if they 
do not get what they want. We may feel put down. It is best to try to find 
the positives of the situation. The ego and the will cause endless 
complications in life. Difficult situations may help us get greater clarity 
about our own issues and attitudes. Usually, people who are difficult or 
angry are struggling with a deep wound from their past. Recognizing this 
can help one have a different attitude and this may cause a change in the 
situation. 


o ZAR AA: 


om dayakaraya namah 


11. The compassionate. 


Daya is compassion and Kara the one who promotes or causes it. 
Mars is a fiery planet and thus is associated with Pitta Dosha. This is a 
term from Ayurveda for the fiery body type. Pitta types are easily angered 
but are also naturally compassionate. They are especially kind to those 
who honour them. 


$0 Alacra A: 


om manadaya namah 


12. Causing (Da) pride (Mana). Giving respect. 


Warriors are ready to fight out of pride. There is pride for one’s 
country as well as one’s own strength, skill and dignity. They give respect 
to those who they see are more powerful or worthy of that honour. This 
keeps the discipline of an army or state. Capricorn as the tenth sign 
naturally has Mana or pride. It is like the tenth house, which is where we 
seek status. Mars has a natural association with its exaltation sign 
Capricorn and it gets Dig Bala or directional strength in the tenth house. 


Mars, Mangala 125 


$0 SITGUTS AH: 


om aparvanaya namah 


13. Impenetrable. 


The name suggests that there is no waxing or waning to honour 
and no special days on which to worship him. That Shakti is to be known 
continuously. For this, we benefit from following a daily practice. 


Aparvana also means ‘without a knot or joint’. This is why it is 
very hard to overcome someone with a strong Mars. He makes one enjoy 
competition. One competes to show that one’s armour has no weak point. 
For example, the tennis player practises so he can return all types of well 
hit balls. 


PTA AU: 


om kriiraya namah 


14. Crucl (Kréra). 


A warrior has to be able to do cruel things. Mars indicates 
violence that inevitably appears cruel. The awakening Shakti can move 
with such energy that it appears unconcerned with the apparent fragility 
of the body. Once Shakti is united with its lord Shiva, then peace and 
compassion predominate. 


Mars indicates surgeons while Mercury indicates a doctor wha 
gives medicine. Mercury will hesitate to take up the knife. Mercury makes 
one prefer to be vegetarian while Mars has no problem with taking the 
life of an animal, Each planet has its viewpoint and the soul! has to listen 
to the advice from al! of them but in each individual, some voices are 
louder than others. This can also change over time, hence our differences. 


o ~_ AS 
3 ATAaTaaIATS AA: 
om tapatrayavivarjitaya namah 
15. He who destroys (Vivarjita) the three kinds of misery (Tapa Traya). 


The three kinds of miseries are those arising from the self, the 
world and the gods. The Vedic terms are Adhyatmika, Adhibhautika and 
Adhidaivika. These mean the trouble we bring on ourselves, that which 


126 Yoga of the Planets 


others visit on us and that which seems to be from fate or unseen forces. 
The inner power, the awakened Shakti, banishes all kinds of misery. The 
king or ruler is more limited in their ability to help, even when there is 
genuine willingness. However, it is still their duty to do what they can. A 
ruler has to have police for internal troubles, the army for external 
threats and a department for helping with natural disasters. It is his 
Shakti that has to energize all these parts of the government. In times of 
crisis, it is the warriors of the nation that are called upon to deal with all 
these areas. That is why we honour them so much. 


do Gaara Aa: 


om supratipaya namah 


16. Moving in a contrary manner. 


Su is good or auspicious and Pratipa means retrograde so the 
name reads as ‘favourable when retrograde’. It is interesting that some 
believe that Mars is better when retrograde, more so than Saturn. This 
name only appears for Mars. Mars may appear destructive when it goes 
retrograde but it also serves a useful purpose. When retrograde, the 
energy is moving more internally and is therefore withdrawn on the 
outside. This means that Mars makes us look inwards or towards the 
past. If Mars has a connection with spirituality in our chart, this can 
contribute to awakening. 


This name has multiple meanings. ‘Su’ can mean ‘moving’, 
Mangal has an erratic path as observed from the Earth as it is the next 
planet out from the Earth. Another translation is ‘easily contrary’. In 
other words, it takes little to cause Mars to start acting as an opponent. 
One can also take ‘Su’ as ‘very’ so the meaning would be ‘very crooked’. 
This suggests that Mars can promote a wide range of behaviour from the 
most noble to the most vicious. 


| am indebted to the scholars of Samskrita Bharati, Nagpur, for 
another translation ‘easy of access for everyone’. This is like the name 
Aparvan (not having a parvan or special day) suggesting that special 
qualifications of time and place are not needed in order to perform his 
worship. A ruler is naturally a warrior, as kings have to fight to protect 
their people and their status. A good ruler is easily approached. This 
makes the people contented and gives a feeling of justice and security. 


Another definition is ‘the best protector’. Mars signifies the male 
protector for women and, as the police and military, represents those 
charged with protecting society as a whole. 


Mars, Mangala 127 


om sutamraksaya namah 


17. Having beautiful (Su) copper coloured (Tamra) eyes (Aksa). 


Mars represents the metal copper. Some people have irises of 
this colour. This name also means one with deep red or ruby coloured 
eyes. Mars on the Ascendant can make for a little reddishness in the eyes 
and complexion. Writers often refer to the reddening of the eyes when 
someone becomes angry. 


H GAIA Aa: 


om subrahmanyaya namah 


18. The son of Lord Shiva, Subrahmanya. 


He is also called Skanda or Murugan. [t is said of Lord Skanda, 
that he had greater wisdom than his father and taught to Him the 
meaning of Om which is said to contain all the Vedas. Skanda was born 
from the semen shed on the earth by Lord Shiva and no one could bear its 
extreme Agni or heat. The child born of it was given to the wives of the 
great Rishis, residing in the Pleiades, for fostering. This is the lunar 
mansion or Nakshatra of Krittika, which bridges Aries and Taurus. 
Krittika is the place of Agni. It has the deepest quality of Motherhood and 
is especially associated with foster parenting. 


Krittika is where the Moon becomes exalted and so is associated 
with the perfection of the mind. The Jyotisha classics advise one not to 
undertake travels or other significant things such as marriage while the 
Moon is in Krittika or the previous Nakshatra Bharani. This facilitates 
mental and heart space for the delicate process of purification that 
permits this constellation to reveal its full glory. Anyone born with a 
planet in Krittika has a special connection with deep knowledge through 
that planet. They may also find some affinity for Ramana Maharishi and 
the wonderful mountain of Arunachala near Tiruvannamalai in Tamil 
Nadu, India. 


After his enlightenment, Ramana Maharishi lived his whole life 
on the mountain and considered it his Guru. He is said to be an 
incarnation of Skanda and the mountain is said to be Shiva in his fire 
form. There is a great temple at the foot of the mountain that contains the 
Agnilinga or symbol of Shiva. The Linga is a stone inside thick stone walls 


128 Yoga of the Planets 


well away from the heat of the Sun. When I visited there, [ noticed that 
the sanctus sanctorum was remarkably hot while it is usually cool inside 
these shrines. 


Each planet has two deities associated with it in the system of 
Vedic Astrology. One causes a rising up and one causes a cooling down. 
The choice of name of a deity is very important. The name Subrahmanya 
is cooling and very sweet and can assist in remedying the difficulties 
caused by an afflicted Mars. That is the value of this mantra. 


$o Gas AH: 


om sukhapradaya namah 


19. The giver of happiness (Sukha). 


As the auspicious one or Mangala, Mars can give happiness. Its 
job is to protect and the people can enjoy their lives if they are well 
protected. If well disciplined, the Mars people who are those charged 
with protecting society, are an essential element in society’s well-being. 
This includes the army, police and fire fighters. 


#0 aCARUeSs HA Aa: 


om vakrastambhadigamanaya namah 


20. His movements (Gamana) include being retrograde (Vakra) and 
standing still (Stambha). 


Good generals know when to advance, when to be stationary and 
when to retreat. The inner Shakti, also known as the Kundalint energy, 
has these movements. 


go ATTY AM: 
om varenyaya namah 


21. The pre-eminent, most esteemed or desired. 


Varenya also means saffron, a colour related to that of Mars. Mars 
is the planet of celibacy and celibates often wear saffron coloured robes. 
In India, renunciates do this to show that they have performed their 
funeral rites and have taken the sacred fire inside of themselves. The 


Mars, Mangala 129 


saffron colour symbolizes the colour of fire. That is why the renunciates 
are esteemed and called ‘Maharaj’ (king), which is a term also used for 
great warriors. 


do Alaa AA: 


om varadaya namah 


22. Giving (Da) boons (Vara). 


Mars can make anyone inclined to give. Great kings are famous 
for their generosity to those who ask and the Kundalini Shakti is the 
greatest boon-giver. Those in whom She is awake, can give whatever they 
choose though every gift has its own cost. For example, a saint may take 
someone else’s disease but then she has to bear that in her own body. She 
can also give part of her longevity to another so their length of life is 
extended but her life is shortened. This is how it is explained. Saints can 
generally bear much more than ordinary people and they are least 
concerned with their own personal comfort or convenience. 


N 
$0 Gael Aa: 
om sukhine namah 
23. Joyful (Sukhin). 


The awakening of the Shakti opens the floodgates of bliss. Even a 
little Mars energy can be a source of joy; one feels alive. 


} Are aA: 


om virabhadraya namah 


24. One of great power and grace. One of excellent (Bhadra) heroism. A 
great hero. 


Heroism (Vira) is not the property of a few mythical people. All of 
us can express it when the need arises, Whatever a person does, the 
common thread is courage and unselfishness. It is associated with 
spirituality as it requires one to give up self-centredness. 


130 Yoga of the Planets 


So TAS OTA AA: 


om virapaksaya namah 


25. The strange eyed. 


Virtipdksa is a name also given to Lord Shiva. It could mean one 
with some deformation to the eyes but here it suggests one with 
something unusual about the power of seeing. Shiva is famous for his 
ever open third eye. This is opened in a person by the upward movement 
of the Shakti, which Mars represents. 


do faqeara AA: 


om vidtrasthaya namah 


26. Established at a far distance (Vidtira). Not easy to attain. 


[t is said in the Veda that ‘the owner of the house is seen at a 
distance’ - ‘diredrsam grhapatimatharyum' (Rig Veda 7.1.1). This 
describes the state of unbounded consciousness. When the Shakti fully 
rises, the consciousness expands and the owner of the house, the Self, is 
found present even at a very far distance, essentially everywhere. 


If this name is read with a short ‘uw’ then the meaning would be 
different but is still very applicable. It means highly intelligent. This 
version of the name can also mean one who is crafty or an intriguer. Kings 
and generals need to be crafty at times as we see in the way that the 
Mahabharata war was won. The Mahabharata is one of the world’s 
greatest ancient epics and it describes a huge battle which occurred some 
5,000 years ago in Northern India. The key role was played by Shri 
Krishna. Because of the great power of the enemy, Lord Krishna had to 
advise his side to do several apparently underhanded things. One 
example was when the great and virtually invincible warrior Drona had 
to be killed. None could succeed but Krishna knew that Drona was overly 
fond of his son Ashwatthaman who was also fighting. Krishna was on the 
side of the Pandava heroes and they had a great elephant who was also 
named Ashwatthaman. 


At some point the cry went up that Ashwatthaman was dead. It 
was the elephant, but Drona did not know that. He approached the 
Pandava king Yudhishthira to find the truth, because he was famous for 
being the most honest man on Earth. Krishna persuaded Yudhishthira to 
tell a half lie. He said ‘Yes Ashwatthaman is dead, the elephant’ but the 
word elephant was spoken only indistinctly so Drona did not hear. Drona 


Mars, Mangala 13] 


soon abandoned fighting and was quickly murdered by someone who 
held a great grudge against him. In fact, he had abandoned his body by 
Yogic power before the blow was struck? (see also Jupiter 12). Every act 
has its cost. Up to that time, it is said that Yudhishthira’s chariot had 
floated a little above the ground due to his extreme merit but this half- 
truth firmly grounded him, Later, he also had to briefly visit hell for this, 
but that famous visit only served to enhance his greatness. The wonder of 
the Vedic stories is that they encompass earth, heaven and hell, and all 
the worlds, uninterrupted by birth and death. 


The syllable stha suggests being firmly established in, or having 
that as the basis. Power signified by Mars is rooted in wisdom or Vidura. 
Power does not come from pushiness, rather from knowing and subtlety. 
The power of the inner Shakti arises when we let go of pushiness and 
surrender to the deepest knowing. This level of knowing is very subtle. 
That is Vidura. 


Vidura is also the name of one of the characters in the 
Mahabharata epic. He was the son of the great sage Vyasa by a girl who 
accepted him lovingly despite his old and wizen appearance. He had been 
asked by his mother to sire a son with the Queen as the King, his brother, 
had died childless. The Queen, finding the sage’s appearance frightening 
sent her maid. As a consequence of the attitude of the maid, their child 
Vidura grew up exceptionally wise, righteous and strictly impartial. 
Vidura was the ideal exemplar of this name. 


« ™~ ba 
3 TqdTaaq 4F: 
om vibhavasave namah 


27. Having the lustre of gold, or shining (Vibha) like a jewel (Vasu). 


fo TTR TH: 


om naksatracakrasamcarine namah 


28. Rotating (Sancérin) through the circle (Chakra) of Nakshatras. 


Sancarin can also mean to join. Mars owns the central Nakshatra 
in the sequence of nine that repeats three times to make up the zodiac. It 


° Mahabharata, Drona Parva, 191v56. 


132 Yoga of the Planets 


plays a pivotal role in joining the two halves of the sequence of planetary 
lords. This sequence of nine is the root of the Vedic system of Dashas or 
planetary cycles that make it such an accurate system of astrology. This is 
discussed further in the chapter on The Secrets of Vimshottari Dasha. 


% MAq aa: 


om ksatrapaya namah 


29. A leading warrior. 


The people of the warrior caste are called Kshatriyas and are 
signified by Mars. They have Ksatra, which means power or dominion. 
Ksatrapa is a high-ranking warrior such asa governor or regional! ruler. 


So Batata Aa: 


om ks&atravarjitaya namah 


30. He is destroying the Ksatra, warriorhood or power (of others). 
His enemies are humbled by being defeated by him. 


The rising in us of infinite power, the Kundalini Shakti, leaves us 
guiet and peaceful and devoid of willfulness. 


30 eager A: 


om ksayavrddhivinirmuktaya namah 


31, Free from both decay (Ksaya) and increase (Vrddhi). 


Violence is the destruction of others health and wealth for one’s 
own increase. The fully awakened state is completely free ( Vinirmukta) of 
this due to its perpetual state of satisfaction. 


Se ATG a: 


om ksamayuktaya namah 


32. Endowed with patience, restraint and tolerance. 


Mars, Mangala 133 


He is yoked (Yukta) to the quality of forbearance (Ksama). It is 
his duty and nature. 


de fra aH: 


om vicaksanaya namah 


33. Far-sighted (Vicaksana). Wise, learned, skilful, expert, circumspect. 


A good general needs all these qualities and they come with 
refined consciousness. Mars, in the astrological chart, can indicate 
surgery, engineering, and mathematics all of which involve skill and 
learning. Mars is one of the fire planets (with Sun and Ketu) that can give 
expertise in Astrology. Mars is the Graha that rules the Agni or fire 
element Fire is needed for success in every field, especially for seeing the 
future. 


do Heures AA: 


om aksinaphaladaya namah 


34, Giving (Da) endless (Aksina) results (Phala). 


The awakening of the inner Shakti and its complete unfolding 
produce an eternal state. It transcends death. 


Aaa AA: 


om caturvargaphalapradaya namah 


35. The giver (Prada) of success (fruits, Phala) to the four (Chatur) 
divisions (Varga) of life. 


The four divisions can refer to the four classes of people. They 
are the Brahmins (priests and the learned), the Kshatriyas (ruling class), 
the Vaishyas (business people) and the Shudras (workers). The job of the 
warrior is to protect them all. This allows society to evolve peacefully so 
everyone can enjoy relative satisfaction. 


Life has four divisions: Dharma, Artha, Kama and Moksha. 
Dharma is what we do to sustain our life and our society. Artha is what 
we own, our wealth. Kama is our desires and enjoyments and Moksha is 


134 Yoga of the Planets 


spiritual liberation. These are the four purposes of human life. The 
spiritual fire or Shakti sustains all of these and gives their fruits. 


fo atau aa: 


om vitaragaya namah 


36. Free (Vita) from greediness. 


Mars can often indicate Raga which means passion, greed, anger 
and envy. In the state of Moksha, there is evenness in all this. It is quiet 
and gentle. The mantra indicates and invokes this high spiritual state as 
well as helping us to overcome the defects of Raga. 


It is the duty of the police and army to allow society to function 
in peace. This name makes clear the importance of these forces being free 
from corruption. This also applies to the lawmakers and executives. If 
there is greed, then there is crime or defeat and the people suffer. 


The real hero takes whatever he or she has and gifts it away to 
those in need of help. Such an act converts a trivial thing into lasting 
fame. For a great warrior, reputation is everything. In the Vedic times, 
kings and warriors took great pride in their generosity to those 
respectfully asking for help. The great warrior Karna in the Mahabharata, 
born of the energy of the Sun, had an invincible armour. His enemy came 
and begged the armour and such was his pride or his natural generosity 
that he instantly gave it away, even though this would lead to his eventual 
death. He has been famous for 5,000 years for this act and will likely 
remain so as long as mankind retains its archive of stories. 


This name can also point to the ability to be free from passion. 
Mars is the one that can make us maintain celibacy. 


so aera AA: 


om vitabhayaya namah 


37. Fearless. Without (Vita) fear (Bhaya), 


People with a strong Mars are found climbing mountains, surfing 
60 foot waves and pursuing all kinds of extreme activities. They love it. 
Achieving the highest state of consciousness requires the same sort of 
fearlessness so that progress is not blocked by fears for survival. 


Mars, Mangala 135 


He fasatra aA: 


om vijvaraya namah 


38. Free (Vi) from fever, anxiety or distress (/vara). 


A strong and balanced Mars is excellent for health. When vitiated, 
Mars can indicate fevers and distress due to excess heat in the body. The 
highest state is free from all dis-ease. 


fo faSTHILON AA: 


om viSvakaranaya namah 


39. Doing or causing (K@rana) all things (Visva). 


Everything in a kingdom is done in the name of the king who is 
naturally a Kshatriya. It is as if he is doing everything although he has 
nothing specific to do. In China where the empire was so large, it was said 
that the ministers got the answers to their questions from the way the 
Emperor's robe fel). The greater the dominion, the more silent that which 
rules or upholds the law has to be. The government of nature is so quiet 
that it is not seen or heard, only by those who are that quiet inside 
themselves. This is the state of Vishvak@rana. This name is given to Mars 
because he holds the Shakti and it is the Shakti that does everything. 


do ARUN Aa: 


om naksatrarasisamncaraya namah 


40. Moving through (Samcdra) the Nakshatras and the zodiacal signs 
(Rashis). 


Rashi can mean a collection: a collection of stars or the collection 
of constellations. This emphasizes the importance of the transits of Mars. 
When other factors concur, Mars transiting across some key factor in the 
natal chart can indicate fevers or even surgery. On the societal level, Mars 
associating closely with the nodes can coincide with violent crimes as 
occurred on 11 September 2001. This was an extreme situation because 
Mars was passing through Mila Nakshatra where it met fiery Ketu while 
the Moon in a Nakshatra of Mars approached Rahu. This movement of the 
Moon acted as the trigger. Mula Nakshatra is ruled by Ketu and can be 
associated with death but many factors have to come together to create 


136 Yoga of the Planets 


such an event. On the other hand, when it is favourable in our chart, Mars 
transits can bring great success. 


Mars can draw his sword and Ketu can be headless. In the worst 
case, it can be dangerous when they both are strong and influencing the 
chart. Normally, it just makes it difficult to know when to stop whatever 
we are doing even if it is irritating others. {n its mild forms, this is very 
common. It can give tremendous persistence, which can lead to 
significant achievements. However, if we see this tendency in ourselves in 
any area of life, we should try to control any headlessness. If we see that 
others are becoming irritated, we should take a time out. Ketu is related 
to Ganesha, a human form that lost his head for lack of proper 
discrimination and was given an elephant head so that he attained great 
wisdom. The elephant indicates the influence of Jupiter. Remembering 
Ganesha may help. 


Each Graha has a name like this. It connects the inner meanings 
with the outer observed celestial body and points to the idea that each 
Graha, by its Nakshatra and sign placement at birth, creates the drama of 
life. 


} AAPA TA: 


om nanabhayanikrntanaya namah 


41. Destroying (Nikrntana) many kinds of fear (Nandbhaya), 


The awakening of consciousness has this effect. On the societal 
level, it is the duty of government to stop criminals, terrorists and other 
countries from disturbing the progress of the nation. The best leaders are 
those who have shown great valour, nobility and skill in their lives. They 
should be incorruptible. These names give us all we need to know to 
judge who is suitable. It has been famously said that a nation gets the 
leader it deserves. Therefore, we should all try to deserve the best, 


TRAIAN AA: 


om vandarujanabandhavaya namah 


42. Surrounded by respectful people (Vanddru jana). 


Powerful people are always treated with respect. People group 
around them for protection and to share the benefits of their success. 
President Barack Obama is primarily a Mars person. Mars is his 


Mars, Mangala 137 


AtmaKaraka (Sun 12). In the 2008 election, he was competing with 
Senator John McCain who has Venus AtmaKaraka. In both charts, the 
AtmaKaraka falls in exactly the same place in the zodiac in royal Leo. So 
they both wanted to be the President and strongly contested for it, but 
Mars dominated. Venus can compete well but it is hard to overcome Mars. 


do ToT AA: 


om vakrakuficitamirdhajaya namah 


43. Having straight hais, swept back. 


This is a literal translation. Mdrdhaja is the hair of the head ora 
mane so this name alludes to the central position of Mars in the sequence 
of Nakshatra lords as explained in the chapter on the Secrets of the 
Vimshottari Dasha. The name also means having both retrograde (Vakra) 
and direct motion (Aku/ficita). Mars is famous for having a particularly 
variable path through the sky. 


$e FHA AR: 


om kamaniyaya namah 


44. Lovely, charming (Kamaniya). 


Mars may be fierce at times but he is not devoid of charm. A 
strong Mars can make a person heroic and this can be very attractive. 
This name has the sound and feeling of loveliness. Repeat it slowly until 
you feel its energy permeating your whole being. 


3 SATAN AA: 


om dayasaraya namah 


45. Firm in compassion (Daya). It is his essence (Sara). 


Mars is naturally fiery. In Ayurveda, this is called Pitta and a 
classic Pitta type is a classic Mars type. As long as Mars is not afflicted, it 
blazes up easily but quickly calms down and can show deep compassion. 
He will fight with great strength but never attacks the weak and the 
unarmed. Whatever a person's prowess in fighting or competing, the 


138 Yoga of the Planets 


mark of their greatness is their willingness to protect or save those 
weaker than them. 


0 PACHA TNT FA: 


om kanatkanakabhiisanaya namah 


46. Shining with golden (Kanatkanaka) ornaments (Bhisana). 


Traditional leaders are surrounded with gold. It shows their 
wealth and power. The main idea is to give a golden aura or a Justre to 
dazzle the people, hence the reference to ‘shining’. Even promotions in 
the military generally mean more gold - stripes, braid, stars. 


Obviously the origin of this is the golden aura of great souls. [tis 
always said of divine personages who appear in visions, that they shine. 
Those who want to project kingship imitate this. 


The carriages of royalty used to be covered in gold. Then Queen 
Victoria’s beloved husband, Prince Albert, died. She went into mourning 
and never came out of it. She lived a very long time so Britain, then the 
dominant power in the world, remained in mourning for 40 years. Al} 
London's colourful iron railings were painted black and everyone 
followed the Queen’s lead and drove around in black vehicles. Over 100 
years later, almost all of the railings are still black and all over the world, 
the leaders drive in black cars. | think they have forgotten the reason 
why. The current Queen of England’s carriages are still black but all the 
frills are gold. The Gold State Coach, built well before Albert died, is 
completely covered in gold leaf except where there are exquisite 
paintings. Black is the colour of Saturn indicating sorrow. Saturn is also 
related to democracy so most current leaders may feel that it is best to 
stay with the tradition of black vehicles. 


4 HaHa: 
om bhayaghnaya namah 
47. Removing (Ghna) fear (Bhaya). 


When the Shakti awakes, that is the true end of fear. 


Mars is the significator for courage and the third house of the 
chart. This house shows our courage and valour. A strong person makes 
those around them free of fear. Society depends on its strongest and 


Mars, Mangala 139 


bravest members, the heroes and champions, and the movies play 
endlessly on this. 


So WTS AA: 


om bhavyaphaladaya namah 


48. Giving excellent and auspicious (Bhavya) results (Phala). 


$0 WENTTAT Aa: 


om bhaktabhayavarapradaya namah 


49. Blessing (Varaprada) the devotee (Bhakta) with fearlessness (Abhaya). 


If we want a strong person to protect us, we show them great 
respect. In a crisis, the protector has to be obeyed. That is why soldiers 
are taught to follow the orders of superiors without question and, on 
ships and aircraft, the captain’s word is final. If one stops to question or 
entertain doubt about the leader in an emergency, then one is at grave 
danger. Therefore, if there is a crisis, one person has to be given charge 
and everyone else must simply do what he or she is told. As emergencies 
come suddenly and unexpectedly, we should try to develop a habit of 
accepting good advice. We should teach this to our children by our 
example. In any partnership, each person has strong and weak areas. On 
our own, we can be in trouble because of our weak areas but in a team, 
we can succeed. We should understand where we are less competent and 
simply trust and obey the other who has demonstrated greater 
competence in that area. This way, the team or personal relationship has 
few if any weak links. 


Just because a man or woman has let us down in the past, does 
not mean that every man or woman will do so in the present or future. 
Somehow, we have to find a way to be simple in the present and not a 
victim of past negative experiences. Be alert to the present signs and 
symptoms without imagining any. Pay especial care to what people say 
when you first talk to them. Keep quiet and give them free rein. Ina few 
minutes, you will know exactly what they want from their relationship 
with you. Believe that, and not any expectations or hopes you might be 
harbouring. Certain combinations between two astrological charts can 
give extraordinary depth to a relationship and that will usually show in 
some way at the beginning. 


140 Yoga of the Planets 


The ultimate protector is the cosmic will. To get its protection, 
we have to give it our continuous attention. This is devotion. If we get a 
glimpse of the cosmic vastness, it absorbs our attention and if that 
continues, a merger takes place so there is no longer any concept of 
separation. In that state, fear goes away. It is a characteristic of that 
fortunate state. 


% WEA AH: 
om-Satrahantre namah 


50. Destroying (Hantr) the enemy (Shatru). 


Mars can be excellent in the sixth house of the Vedic chart, the 
house of all types of enemies. Enemies can be external as well as internal, 
such as disorders of the mind and the body. His strong presence there 
helps to overcome these difficulties in oneself and others. This placement 
may motivate us towards medical, legal, security and other such 
professions. 


30 RTATdTa AH: 
om Samopetaya namah 


51. Peaceful. Endowed (Upeta) with evenness (Shama). 


Those who have to fight should be able to stay calm. Your 
opponents will try to make you angry. During the Second World War, at 
the time when Germany had almost succeeded in destroying British air 
defences as their precursor to invasion, one British bomber dropped a 
few small bombs on Berlin. In a fit of anger, Hitler wrecked his own plan, 
ensuring British survival. Anger and arrogance are the fatal flaws of a 
leader. 


J BRUM TAM SONS FA: 
om Saranagataposanaya namah 
52. Supporting (Posana) those who seek refuge (Sharana Agata) in him. 


People with real strength will protect us if we appeal to them for 
assistance. Mars has two signs, Aries and Scorpio. in Aries, there is much 


Mars, Mangala 141 


nobility. Scorpio is excellent for research and can help awaken the mind's 
deeper powers and insight. Both Aries and Scorpio can give leaders. 


a Teh Aa: 


om sahasine namah 


53. Daring (Sdhasin). Also bold, impetuous, rash, even ferocious. 


So AQUA AA: 


om sadgunadhyaksaya namah 


54. Presiding over the qualities of truth and purity. 


SadGuna is the quality of truth (Sat) or purity. Adhyaksha means 
to preside over. This name tells us that we have to look at the situation of 
Mars in the chart to determine truth and purity. Mars is a mixture of 
Tamas and Rajas but a clear unafflicted Mars usually gives truthfulness, 
as it is a part of honour, and other good qualities. This is found in the 
charts of most saints. The association of Mars with the Sun, the pre- 
eminent Graha of truth, intensifies the good qualities though it is 
influenced by the sign in which they are placed. 


de alad aa: 
om sadhave namah 


55. The enlightened one (Sadhu). 


The nature of a Sadhu is to go straight to the goal and to be 
efficient and effective. Sadhu is a word with a wide range of meanings. 
They all point to the qualities that make for success and goodness such as 
henesty and chastity. While the negative side of Mars, fighting and 
cruelty, will destroy a relationship, the positive side is highly supportive. 
All the influences on the natal Mars must be carefully studied. The 
greatest challenges arise from any admixture with Saturn, Rahu or Ketu. 
However, these associations can also prove beneficial in certain 
circumstances. In particular, Saturn can give Mars discipline (see also 
Mars 62). 


142 Yoga of the Planets 


Mars rules three Nakshatras, MrgaSirsa, Chitra and Dhanistha. 
These Nakshatras equally straddle the earth and air signs. For example, 
half of Mrgasirsa is in Taurus and the other half in Gemini. Many saints 
have their Moon in one of these as it unites the two Moksha Nakshatras, 
the Janma Nakshatra and the one before it. The assignment to Moksha is 
explained in the Chapter on Secrets of the Vimshottari Dasha. 


jo TAGS a: 


om samaradurjayaya namah 


56. Unconquerable. 


Literally, difficult to overcome (Durjaya) in a conflict (Samara). 
This includes meetings of all kinds including negotiations. Mars 
represents those who will fight back and fight hard. This can be as true of 
the warrior as it is of the saint, just in different ways with different 
manifestations. 


$0 SUR TH: 


om dustadiiraya namah 


57, One from whom wickedness {Dusta) is far removed (Dia), 


Those in royal, government or security service should be of 
exemplary character. For such employers, background checks are normal 
but it would also be gaod to study Mars in the Vedic chart. 


3 Rreqeara an: 
om Sistapijyaya namah 


58, Worthy of honour (Pijya) by the wise. 


Shista is the disciplined, the learned, the cultured and the wise. 
Each of these has their own reason for honouring one with a dominant 
Mars. The wise seek one with a fully evolved Shakti as such a one can give 
help with spiritual liberation. 


Mars, Mangala 143 


3. aX 
ane AH: 
om sarvakastanivarakaya namah 


59. Completely preventing (Nivdraka) all misfortunes (Sarva Kasta). 


No onc should have to suffer when under the protection of a truc 
warrior. More so for those who have taken the initiation of a true saint 
and are obediently following. However, everyone is ultimately subject to 
their own destiny. To live with Mars, obedience and devotion are the 
keys. For Mars, compassion is the key. 


$o GACT AT AA: 


om duscestavarakaya namah 


60. Obstructing (Vdraka) inauspicious actions (Dushcestd), 


This is the job of the police and security forces. The presence of 
the awakened has this effect also, though mainly invisibly. In the Yoga 
Sutras (2.35) it says, ‘In the presence of purified consciousness that is 
naturally free of any harmful intention, all hostility ceases.’ (See also 
jupiter 80.) 


$ ESSA AA: 


om duhkhabhafijanaya namah 


61. Dispelling (Bhafijana) misery (Dukha). Both within and without 


Ho cu a: 
om durdharaya namah 


62. Irresistible. 


Durdhara can also mean unrestrainable. A strong Mars is difficult 
to resist. An afflicted Mars can cause a lot of trouble in society. Mars Rahu 
and Mars Ketu combinations can be very difficult. However, in a mature 
soul, either can generate the awakening of the Kundalini energy, which is 
also irresistible and unrestrainable. In fact, the subtle activation of the 
energy may be the cause of social and personal difficulties when it 


144 Yoga of the Planets 


energizes an unprepared mind. {f so, then properly guided Yoga practice 
can be very beneficial. 


om haraye namah 


63. The Lord. 


Hari is a well-known name of Lord Vishnu. It means to carry or 
bear, which is why it is associated with Vishnu, the maintainer. It can also 
mean a lion and the sign Leo. This ferocious and regal connection may be 
why it is a name of Mars. While Leo is ruled by the Sun, Mars is the Yoga 
Karaka for Leo, which means it is the one who carries out the great 
achievements of Leo, like a general who conquers on behalf of his king. 


Hari can also mean the one who siezes or takes away our sins. 
This is the Grace of God. Without His help, we can never escape from the 
web of our illusions. By this name appearing here, we realize it is the 
Shakti of the Lord that saves us. Mars is the holder of the Shakti. 


Those whose chart is ruled or dominated by Mars should be 
careful not to use their power to take from others. Mars gives power and 
this can bring the temptation to do what one wants. We should keep 
saying this mantra with the intention “Lord take away my harmful 
tendencies. Make me a blessing for everyone.” 


a G:taqnel aH: 


om duhsvapnahantre namah 


64. Destroying (Hantr) bad dreams (Dubsvapna). 


Malefics in the twelfth house of the chart can indicate sleep 
problems including bad dreams. Mars is a malefic but, when auspicious, 
he can help us. This is not surprising because bad dreams are generally 
about fear and a strong Mars removes all fear. If we do well with 
meditation, which Mars can facilitate, then the relaxation can help relieve 
the mental stresses that cause disturbed sleep. 


30 REID qa: 


om durdharsaya namah 


Mars, Mangala 145 


65. Difficult to be assailed (Durdharsa). 


He is dangerous to attack. {t also means one who is inaccessible. 
Everything is accessible compared to that pure Being and yet it is our 
very Soul. Because it is not an object, we can never get it in front of our 
eyes; it is always behind our eyes. One can only know It by being It. 


Another related meaning is haughty or distant. A person who is 
proud of their strength may appear like this. From the spiritual view, the 
Self is distant as much as it is near. Knowing It as what we are, we also 
see our Self at a vast distance, present in everything. 


A aarafaaraaa aa: 


om dustagarvavimocanaya namah 


66. Completely removing (Vimochana) arrogance (Garva) and wickedness 
(Dusta). 


Dustagarva can mean false pride. The arrogance of one Mars type 
is removed by meeting a stronger such person. However, this can be an 
endless succession of conflict. The inner awakening genuinely removes 
all arrogance. If some spiritual teacher has any competitive sense with 
any other spiritual teacher, then it is untikely that he has really 
surrendered. Many people have some inner experience but that is not 
liberation. 


Another bad sign is when the teacher pins the disciples to him. 
This is called Kilaka. There are special mantras that can be used to bind 
people and lesser deities. Only a petty ego will indulge in such things. The 
disciple has to stay or go as he or she chooses. The master can choose to 
teach or not. It should be all automatic, as the Divine will dictates. The 
mantras in this book can help. 


do WREAGARA A: 


om bharadvajakulodbhitaya namah 


67. Born (Udbhita) in the family (Kula) of the sage Bharadwaja. 


Brahmarishi Bharadwaja is one of the Sapta Rishis or seven great 
sages and was noted for punishing the wicked and protecting the weak 
and indigent. In his travels, he observed how the people were very poor 
and were being looted by criminals. He established a school by the banks 


146 Yoga of the Planets 


of the mighty Saraswati River where he taught the correct way of living 
and educated the Kshatriyas in proper administration and the use of arms 
to defeat the robber barons. Bharadwaja, seeing the people suffering from 
terrible diseases, propitiated Indra, King of Heaven, and learnt the science 
of Ayurveda. It says in the beginning of the Charaka Samhita that this 
science had not been needed in earlier times because the people were 
righteous and did not fall ill. The decline in the minds of the people led to 
diseases and so the medical science had to be revived. This was 
accomplished by the sage Bharadwaja at the request of the other sages. 


One incident was particularly noticeable. Bharadwaja had two 
righteous kings as his disciples. They were attacked by evil minded and 
powerful kings and great trouble was brought to the people. Bharadwaja 
helped them and they defeated the attackers. Since the evil kings had 
been plundering everywhere, they had vast riches. The noble kings who 
had acquired this wealth donated all of it to Bharadwaja. He explained to 
them that gold brings greed and is only trouble to one living a simple life 
but, once given, they would not take it back. Then Bharadwaja distributed 
it amongst the poor people and poverty was removed from the land. 


I once visited a West African country. The President had been in 
power fOr quite some years but eventually was forced to leave. After that, 
| read that the overseas debt of the country was $1 billion while the 
estimated wealth of the exiled President was also $1 billion. Hardly any 
country can claim never to have had the public purse looted and it is 
always at the cost of health, education and social services. Surely we need 
a school for administrators run by Bharadwaja today. 


SOTA A: 


om bhisutaya namah 


68. Son (Suta) of the Earth (Bhd). 


This is one of various names with the same general meaning. 
However, each one has a different sense depending on the actual words 
used. Bhi is the earth because it means the place of being as also 
becoming. [t means that he springs from the place of being, which is 
clearly the Self. That is why Bhi is associated with the Muladhara Chakra, 
which lies at the base of the spine. Our Shakti rises from there and so this 
is the source of our life. Knowing That, we become the knower of the 
movements of the Shakti. Otherwise, we are pushed here and there by its 
constantly changing tendencies. Mahi (Mars 1) is the sphere of the Earth. 


Mars, Mangala 147 


Bhii is our place of being and becoming. They are both in the feminine 
gender so refer to Earth as the Mother. 


Another interesting angle on this name is as follows: Bhii is the 
first of the three worlds, which are the earth, the sky and the heavens. As 
such, Bhi can stand for the number one and can indicate the first house 
in the Vedic chart, the self, and Suta the fifth, the house of children. The 
first and the fifth are the principal places of power. Mars is all about 
power, 


om bhavyabhisanaya namah 


69. Auspiciously (Bhavya) decorated (Bhusana). 


Here we begin on a section explaining his appearance. This name 
not only means someone wearing fine and appropriate clothing but it also 
means one decorated with excellent qualities such as right conduct. 


Ho THAT FA: 


om raktambaraya namah 


70, Wearing blood red (Rakta) clothes (Ambara). 


Mars is the red planet. In the chart, it is the marker of celibacy. 
Celibate saints wear orange or red and so do brides at their marriage in 
India, perhaps to demonstrate their purity just as they wear white in the 
West. Rakta also indicates the red blood cells and these are produced by 
the bone marrow, which is signified by Mars. When Mars is afflicted, 
there may be diseases of the blood. Those with Mars strongly influencing 
the Ascendant are often found wearing red apart from having a reddish 
hue to their appearance and the hair may be a little reddish as well. 


do THATS AA: 


om raktavapuse namah 


71. Red-bodied (Rakta Vapus). 


148 Yoga of the Planets 


When we look at Mars in the sky, we see that it has a red colour. 
Rakta means both red and blood. In the Ramayana, the great epic 
describing the life of the divine Avatar Lord Rama, there are poetic 
descriptions of Rama during battle after he received hundreds of wounds 
and was covered in blood. The poet likens it to those trees that are 
covered with blood red flowers during the time of their blossoming. 
Those with a strong Mars, or subject to the transit of Mars are often found 
with such decorations due to fights and accidents. If Mars is in the 
Ascendant, there is usually a scar somewhere on the face (where the 
blood ran). 


H AHAWSAAGU AA: 


om bhaktapalanatatparaya namah 


72. intent (Tatpara) on protecting (Palana) the devotees (Bhakta). 


His very focus is on protecting those who have sought his shelter. 
Mars can make good policemen and soldiers as well as kings and leaders. 
This name appears amongst several names that are obviously associated 
with the form of Mars. Therefore it tells us about his look. His entire 
appearance is coloured by alertness to his duty. 


3 ADEA aA: 


om caturbhujaya namah 


73. Four armed (Chatur Bhuja). 


Here the divine form is being described. Some planets have four 
hands, some two. Mars has four to carry various weapons and still have a 
hand to grant blessings. The weapons are mentioned next. 


Se TATA AA: 


om gadadharine namah 


74. Carrying (Dhdrin) a mace or club (Gada). 


The club was a popular weapon amongst the strongest warriors. 
They were heavy and thus needed great strength to wield. Both Hanuman 
and Bhima carried a club. Hanuman’s story is told in the Ramayana and 


Mars, Mangala 149 


Bhima’s in the Mahabharata. Both are leading characters. Hanuman is the 
invincible leader of the monkey army and Lord Rama’s greatest devotee. 
Bhima is the brother of Arjuna and the strongest man on Earth, They 
were both said to be sons of the wind god and thus of immense strength. 


When wind mixes with fire, it is irresistible. Hanuman is 
associated with Mars and many people with Mars in or ruling the fifth 
house of the Vedic chart feel a special attachment to him. The fifth house 
is one of the places in the chart that shows the nature of our devotion. 


~ ~ 
go HAATald AH: 
om mesavahaya namah 


75. Riding a ram (Mesa Vaha). 


The sign Aries is symbolized by a ram. This is the more powerful 
of the two signs of Mars. In Vedic Astrology it is called the MilaTrikona 
sign. It means that he is more focused on his duty as a protector in Aries 
than in Scorpio. Hence, he prefers this vehicle over the scorpion. 
Sometimes, like a ram, he may lower his head and charge. Scorpio is an 
even sign and a water sign so it is more restrained. Scorpio is like the 
underwater volcano. It seems calm but can erupt if sufficiently incited. It 
has great mental or psychic power and is the natural sign of research. 


do ARTA Aa: 


om mitasanaya namah 


76. Limiting his food (Ashana) intake. It is measured (Mita), 


Mars will control his consumption to achieve his goals. He can 
also be measured in his reach or action to ensure success. His goals may 
be higher or lower, more or less egocentric, depending on the influences 
on Mars. If Venus is associated with Mars, one may oscillate between 
enjoyment and control. As natural leaders, strong Martian types can seem 
very controlling to others just as the police appear to be to protesters. Of 
course, for the police, they are just doing their job. 


150 Yoga of the Planets 


D WRIOR aa: 


om SaktisGladharaya namah 


77. Carrying a Shakti and a spear. 


The Shakti is both his female consort, who is herself the power 
that he supports, and any weapon or tool that expresses that power. The 
Shila is a sharp pointed instrument of any kind. Thus we find Mars 
leading people into the professions of surgery, acupuncture, hairdressing 
(scissors) and so forth as well as giving a capacity to dig deep 
intellectually. Those with a strong capacity of abstract reasoning have a 
strong Mars. For instance, when in an intellectual sign like Gemini, it 
often makes mathematicians. Mars and Mercury combinations like this 
can also produce engineers including IT professionals. 


There are two deities associated with Mars: Hanuman and 
Skanda. Hanuman caries a mace (Mars 74) and Skanda a spear. Both 
weapons are mentioned in these mantras. When we want protection, we 
use a mantra describing the chosen deity holding that special weapon for 
which they are famous. The word weapon covers any object that is 
carried to indicate a type of intervention. For example, a lotus flower can 
show spiritual awakening. 


30 2A AR: 


om saktaya namah 


78. Very competent (Shakta). 


Mars people are very capable. That is why we trust them to build 
bridges, compute the orbits of spacecraft and play any number of critical 
roles. 


 AWelqalaaala Aa: 

om Sastravidyavisaradaya namah 

79, Fully knowledgeable (Vish@rada) in the science (Vidyd) of weaponry 
(Shastra). 


Shastra has two main meanings. The first is a weapon and the 
second is praise or invocation. Mars is expert in praising his superiors to 
obtain their support and in wielding weapons. In the ancient Vedic times, 


Mars, Mangala 151 


there were subtle weapons that had to be invoked with special mantras. 
These weapons were usually capable of finding their target 
autonomously. The greatest warriors learnt these skills. 


The awakened soul is expert in the sacred praises, which awaken 
the support of the highest powers in nature. 


$e aeara aa: 


om tarkikaya namah 


80. Logician (Tarkika). 


Mars can indicate those who love logic. Therefore, if you are 
having trouble with a Mars type, first show respect, then try logic. Note 
the logic should be good or they may get irritated again! 


Here we have a series of names (Mars 80-84) that start with ‘Ta’ 
or ‘Ta’, ‘Ta’ is impassable, insurmountable and inaccessible. ‘Ta’ has many 
meanings including a warrior and virtue. On the other hand, ‘Ta’ can 
mean sickness and ‘Ta’ can mean bad character so alertness is always 
needed to manifest the highest values, which is always possible. These 
mantras help bring out these values. 


30 ATEN 4a: 


om tamasadharaya namah 


81. Containing (Adhara) darkness (Tamasa) or the one wearing snakes. 


Here we are alerted to the great weakness of Mangal. It is 
associated with Tamas, which means darkness, ignorance or carelessness. 
This is why violence is meant to be the last resort as it brings all kinds of 
miseries, however noble the cause. Presidents and kings who have Mars 
as their strongest planet may say that they have tried all other means first 
before launching an attack, but often observers cannot find much 
evidence of this. If you are a senior leader and Mars is your strongest 
planet, then you instinctively know that your top job depends on keeping 
a State of war going. This is because, when under threat, people will look 
to Mars for protection. Therefore, it is wise that the top leadership is 
given to the Sun or jupiter, supported by Mars. 


Why? These three Grahas rule over the signs of the zodiac that 
have Dharma as their goal. Dharma is that which supports life and living 


152 Yoga of the Planets 


and therefore it is their job to maintain society. We should not give the 
job to the other planets as they have different agendas. The Sun rules by 
sheer authority. It was said that the British built huge government 
buildings in India so that ‘the appearance of power would obviate the 
need for the use of it’. Of course, this has been a standard of rulers since 
the earliest times. Jupiter rules by wise guidance. That is why he makes a 
great team with the Sun since he is not interested in power for its sake. 
Mars rules by wielding force, which only works in the short term. 


When Tdmasdadhdra means wearing snakes, it signifies having 
the power over death. This is how Lord Shiva and His Shakti are often 
portrayed. The Supreme Being alone has power over death and can 
bestow immortality. 


om tapasvine namah 


82. Possessed of Tapas. 


Tapas is conservation of energy through self-control. Having said 
that Mars is associated with Tamas, further elaboration is needed. Tamas 
is darkness and ignorance. When one sees one’s ignorance, the proper 
response is to seek to awaken the light of life in that darkness. This can 
only be done by concentrating whatever Shakti one has to a point. That 
means bringing one’s attention to bear on that darkness. The darkness is 
in the field of silence of the mind. The thoughts carry little bits of light due 
to their movement so let them cease. Then, by paying continuous 
attention to that silence, soon a great light arises. This is the awakening of 
the Shakti. 


Tapas can be translated as religious austerity and Mars bestows 
the capacity for this, but it also means any process that concentrates the 
spiritual energy. That is why Mars is also the planet of celibacy. It is all 
about conserving energy. 


In India, the (two month) season at the end of Winter is called 
Tapas. Winter represents darkness and quiet and can be conducive to 
deep meditation, Out of that, the light of the new Spring comes just as the 
fertile Nakshatra Rohini of the Moon follows Krittika where it is good to 
keep calm and concentrated. Krittika is said to be the birth place of 
Skanda, the Devata of Mars (see also Mars 18). 


Tapas is also pain. A strong Mars can help with bearing pain. 


Mars, Mangala 153 


$0 Waray AA: 
om tamralocanaya namah 


83. Having copper-coloured (Tamra) eyes (Lochana). 


This can mean a fiery vision, as if burning up the enemy. Mars 
indicates the metal copper. There was a phase of human history when it 
was the best metal available for making weapons. 


do Aas AA: 


om taptakaficanasamkasaya namah 


84. Shining (Samkdsha) like molten gold (Tapta Kaficana). 


This particularly refers to the aura of the awakened. The word 
Tapta means that this aura has been produced by a process that 
generates heat. Yogic practices like Pranayama can have this effect. After 
some time of intensive practice under expert guidance, the body may 
begin to glow. 


Tapta Kaficana can indicate the carrying out of a life-time vow or 
austerity and the shining aura is the result. 


fo THhseHalaaya AA: 


om raktakifijalkasannibhaya namah 


85, Resembling (Sannibha) the red rose. 


Kinjaika means the flower of the Indian rose. It can also refer to 
the filament of a plant, which is the stem that supports the anther. This 
produces the pollen (male seed) that is used to fertilize the female part of 
the plant. Much can be drawn from this name including a reference to the 
subtle Nadis in the body that rise up the spine from the lotus at the base 
and support the cortex. Rakta means red, which is the colour of passion. 
Even though capable of control, Mars is always passionate. 


154 Yoga of the Planets 


do Taseara Aa: 


om gotra'dhidevaya namah 


86. Ruling over family lines (Gotra). 


Adhideva is the presiding deity. It is said that a small number of 
Sages came to earth and each one started a Gotra, a clan or family which 
is known by their name. There is the Vasistha Gotra, the Bhrigu Gotra, 
and so forth. To avoid interbreeding, marriage was between Gotras with 
the children taking the Gotra of their father. This was the original 
structure of society long before caste and creed took hold. 


Gotra literally means an enclosure, i.e. that which surrounded the 
tribe. By extension, this came to mean a multitude of people as tribes 
grew. The warrior has to protect his tribe and thus the leading warrior 
becomes the leader of the clan. Gotra can indicate the family name so 
protecting its honour can become a great issue for Mars. Gotra is also a 
cow stall and this implies Mars is the guardian of the community wealth. 


$0 TPA AA: 


om gomadhyacaraya namah 


87. Moving in the midst of the Grahas. 


Go are the cows and by extension the planets. He moves (Chara) 
in the midst (Madhya) of them. Leaving out the Earth, Mars is in the 
middle of the sequence of visible planets which is why it is of particular 
interest to us. Even though it cannot sustain life on its surface because it 
lacks a protective magnetic field, we like to think it could so we might 
have somewhere to expand to. Mars’ position as the central lord of the 
sequence of Nakshatras is of great importance in Vedic Astrology. This is 
discussed in the Chapter about the Secrets of the Vimshottari Dasha. 


In this name, there is a strong sense of leadership, of one who 
moves surrounded by his followers and wealth. 


nd TTS TITS qa: 


om gunavibhisanaya namah 


88. Decorated (Vibhusana) with all good qualities (Guna). 


Mars, Mangala 155 


He is decorated by his various good virtues and exceptional 
qualities. Those whose charts are dominated by Mars will be encouraged 
by this mantra. Emulating this excellent attribute comes naturally or is 
well within their grasp. Mars’ reputation is his greatest wealth, so their 
good deeds and noble adherence to the high road in matters of behaviour 
will certainly be praised by others. 


x ba 
4 Ae Aq: 
om asrje namah 


89. Like blood or saffron (Asrj). 


This is a more direct reference to the colour of Mars than in Mars 
21. it also indicates the connection to the red part of the blood. 


ARNE AA: 


om angarakaya namah 


90. Like smouldering charcoal (Angdraka). 


This is one of the most famous names of Mars and is particularly 
descriptive of the colour of the planet. Fire is inherent in charcoal, so the 
hint is that Mars can flare up too. You only have to blow a little. That is 
why a pecking order and proper etiquette are so vital amongst warriors, 
the natural ruling class. The more powerful the person is that one meets, 
the greater the care one has to take with one's behaviour. Since one never 
really knows who a person is when one first meets them, giving respect 
to all is a very good habit to cultivate, especially in the growing youth. 


do AaedieaMenas AA: 


om avantidesadhisaya namah 


91. Ruling (Adhisha) over the land (Desha) of Avanti. 


Avanti was an ancient kingdom in West-Central India, The 
capital, Mahishmati, stood on the banks of the famous Narmada River. 
This is close to the modern Indore. The kings of Avanti were involved in 
various wars with the Pandavas as described in the Mahabharata. 


156 Yoga of the Planets 


In one story”, it relates how the fire god Agni, the Devata of 
Mars, stayed at Mahishmati. One day he took human form and was caught 
romancing the daughter of the king. When threatened with punishment, 
he blazed up. Seeing this, the king Nila honoured the god and bestowed 
on him his daughter. Pleased, Agni offered Nila a boon and the king 
requested that his army would not face fear in battle. Agni agreed. After 
that, other kings were careful not to attack that city. One additional 
consequence of this boon was that the women of Avanti became fully 
emancipated. When a Pandava, Sahadeva, advanced on the city, Agni 
protected it Sahadeva’s army was in danger but he worshipped Agni, 
who blessed him and caused an amicable conclusion. He and Nila met in 
friendship. When Mars is in its own signs, then it functions like Agni. 
These stories help us understand the consequences of this Graha in our 
lives. 


om janardanaya namah 


92. Exciting the people. 


Janardana is a famous name of Lord Krishna. His appearance was 
so magnetic it excited everyone. This name can also mean disturbing or 
giving pain to people. In other words, a strong Mars has a profound effect, 
exhilarating or disturbing. For any person, it depends on how much 
Sattva he has and what the attitude of the people are towards him. Those 
who attacked Shri Krishna or gave trouble to his people were destroyed 
by his might. Those who honoured him enjoyed great good fortune. 


. ¢ ia 
do GaAaTea A: 
om stryayamyapradesasthaya namah 
93. Standing (Stha) to the South of Surya, the Sun (in the Graha Mandala). 


Mars rules over the Southern direction (Yamya Pradesha). 
Capricorn and Aquarius are considered to be in the South as Aries is the 
natural East. Mars is exalted in Capricorn. Both these signs are ruled by 
Saturn and when Saturn and Mars join, then great power arises, which 
can prove deadly if provoked. The guardian of the South is Yama. He is 


3© Mahdbhdérata, Sabha Parva, Chapter 31. 


Mars, Mangala 157 


the god of death and determines the path followed by the soul in this 
world and the next. He rules Bharani Nakshatra in the middle of Aries and 
is pleased by righteous conduct. He embodies the concept of karma: As 
you sow, so shall you reap. 


a N 
4 Ye a: 
om yune namah 


94. United. 


Yuni means a string, cord or connection. It is related to the word 
Yoga or union. Yuni is what binds together. The meaning here is that he is 
like a Yogi. He is an integrated person. He helps society maintain its 
integrity. 


Creatively, this name could indicate all the cables, wires and 
wireless waves that connect machines and thence us. Mars represents 
electricity and every kind of energy flow. He is indicative of computers 
andengineers, especially when associated with Mercury. 


30 aaEhapar aa: 


om yamyaharinmukhaya namah 


95. Facing (Mukha) to the South of the Sun. 


Harin can mean the Sun. It can also mean a quarter of the sky so 
Yamyaharin means the Southern quarter. Harin also means a lion or a 
monkey. In the South, Mars has great strength like a lion. It also points at 
the connection between Mars and Hanuman, the great monkey warrior 
who assisted Shri Rama recover his wife Sita (Seeta) from the demon king 
Ravana. This story is told in the great epic, the Ramdyana. Worshipping 
Hanuman can help with Mars problems (see Mars 74). 


This, along with Mars 93, tells the priest how to position the 
Murti or statue of Mangala in the Navagraha Mandala. This Mandala is a 
set of nine statues used in the worship of the planets. Both the position 
and the direction faced are important for each Graha. In Vedic Astrology 
there is a very important concept called directional strength. Both the 
Sun and Mars have directional strength in the South, which is in that part 
of the Vedic chart where one finds the mid-heaven or tenth house. This is 
alluded to here. Note Mars 94 is between two names that.are obviously 


158 Yoga of the Planets 


related. The reference to union tells us that the Sun and Mars are 
naturally associated in this regard. The South is related to midday. If 
someone is born around apparent midday and/or with Mars at the 
Zenith, then they have a special blessing that can give them high status in 
life. 


do BeRIOAUeN Ta aa: 


om trikonamandalagataya namah 


96. Indicated (Gata) by a triangle ( Trikona). 


This is the symbol (Mandala) for the Puja for Mars. Just as the 
Moon is indicated by a square and is the significator (Karaka) for the 
fourth house in the chart, so Mars is the significator for the third and also 
for aspects of the sixthhouse (2 x 3). Six indicates two triangles and the 
great cosmic symbo} is made up of two triangles interlaced making a six- 
pointed star, the primal Shri Chakra, as discussed in Sun 42. The third 
house is the house of courage, the sixth of conflict and struggle. The ninth 
is the battlefield (3 x 3) and the twelfth is the departure from this life (4 x 
3). This sequence of houses has its basis in the third, where the weapon is 
picked up. 


 Preantregaa AH: 


om tridasadhipasannutaya namah 


97. Worshipped (Sannuta) by Indra - literally, lord of the 3 x 10 (Tri Dasha) 
gods (Adhipa), though this is usually interpreted as meaning 33 gods. 


Indra is like the executive head of the cosmic government, and he 
commands the natural law. He may hinder those whose meditation has 
reached an advanced stage because, once they achieve their goal, he will 
have to worship them. There was an occasion when the demonic forces 
became too strong, and the only solution was for a son of Shiva to 
command the army of the gods and overcome the demon. That son's 
name is Skanda, Mururgan or Karttikeya and he is associated with Mars. 
Indra worshipped him to achieve his end. 


Under Mercury (31), we note that a similar name with Tridasha 
hinted at the division of the sign into three sections. These are called 
Drekkanas and this division creates the Drekkadna or D3 chart. A version 
of this chart is used to see enterprise and courage, which is ruled over by 


Mars, Mangala 159 


Mars. Another shows siblings, also signified by Mars. The reference to 
worship indicates something important. The Devatas or deities of the 
three divisions in each sign are three great sages: Narada of the first, 
Agastya of the second and Durvasa of the the last. 


Narada is a divine Rishi who travels between Heaven and Earth 
triggering situations where individual weaknesses are tested causing 
much growth, Agastya is the great Rishi who calmed the rise of the 
mountains in Central India. Perhaps this rise was due to tectonic plate 
activity but legend says it was due to the teasing of Narada, The 
mountains were calmed by Agastya moving to the South. There, he 
authored the South indian language of Tami] and its grammar and 
numerous wisdom and medical texts. He also wrote Nadi texts of 
Astrology that have become world famous for their instant readings. 


Durvasa is a very great Rishi, who is famed for his short temper. 
He also triggered key events by his appearance at awkward moments 
leading to him cursing the key individual involved. Narada is especially 
associated with Vishnu. Agastya is known for his supreme devotion to the 
Goddess. Durvasa is an incarnation of Shiva. Depending where our Mars 
falls, paying respect to that appearance of Divinity may help us manage 
the Mars’ areas of our life. 


3 Aa AH: 


om sucaye namah 


98. Pure (Shuchi), in every sense. 


This can be taken as related to celibacy. Skanda (Mars) wanted to 
marry but he has a brother Ganesha (Ketu) and only one could be the first 
to marry. Their parents, Lord Shiva and Parvati, declared that the first to 
circumnavigate the whole world would be granted that honour. Skanda 
rides on a fine peacock while Ganesha only has a little mouse. So it 
seemed a certain win for Skanda. He flew off. Ganesha, as one can guess 
from the elephant head, is exceptionally intelligent. He walked around his 
parents and then advised them that the Vedic texts say that 
circumambulating one’s parents is equal to going around the whole 
world. They agreed, so before Skanda returned, Shri Ganesha was 
married. Lord Skanda became angry and left his parents vowing to 
remain single, which meant to maintain celibacy. 


One thing this story tells us is that Mars represents celibacy but 
not necessarily of one’s first choosing. Those who have a strong Mars may 


160 Yoga of the Planets 


refrain from intercourse for many reasons. Whatever the motivation, the 
ability to maintain that state comes with this planet. If you partner with 
someone with a strong Mars and they become annoyed, they may well 
become unavailable. Thus, the connection between Venus and Mars (for 
example) can give rise to many complexities in relationship, not only 
passion. 


Real purity is not mere celibacy. It has nothing fundamentally to 
do with celibacy. A pure heart holds no grudges, a pure mind is free of 
harmful thoughts. This is a state of true humility that approaches that of 
God who does everything without an iota of ego. 


H QUE 7H: 


om Sucikaraya namah 


99. Purifying (Shuchikara). 


What purifies more than fire ruled by Mars? The fire of 
consciousness burns up all sins and past impressions as described in the 
Bhagavad Gita (4.19). 


0 ATS AA: 


om suraya namah 


100. Heroic (Shura). 


This name, coming in a series related to purity, shows that the 
greatest hero is one who purifies him or herself and then assists others to 
become pure through good guidance. Purity is not about maintaining any 
particular rule. The sign of purity is when one feels completely at peace in 
one’s heart. If we do not, we should not feel disheartened. The path starts 
wherever we are. Through patience, kindness, service to those in need, 
prayer and meditation, we can reach that state. 


% Qraqaaaa Aa: 


om Sucivasyaya namah 


101. Dutiful (Vashya) to the pure (Shuchi). 


Mars, Mangala 161 


If we want the blessing of a Yogi, it helps to clean our slate as 
best we can first. Determination to go further under his or her guidanceis 
another key. Then the blessing is automatic. The Yogi will be unable te 
resist giving us part of his or herself. 


do IPE aA: 


om Subhavahaya namah 


102. Causing auspiciousness. 


Shubha is auspicious, agreeable, capable, brilliant, beautiful, 
fortunate, prosperous, charming, happy and so forth. It can indicate one 
who is eminent and learned. Avaha causes or produces. This name 
promises all good through the benevolence of an unafflicted Mars. tf we 
suspect our Mars is afflicted, then reading through these mantras is one 
of the useful remedies. 


$o TRG HANAN AA: 


om mesavrscikarasisaya namah 


103. Lord (/sha) of Aries, Mesha, and Scorpio, Vrishchika. 


Aries is associated with the head, the top of the spine, and 
Vrishchika, the area at the base. Together they show the path of the 
Kundalini energy. The awakening takes place in Scorpio and rises to 
Aries. Then it recirculates down, Jn everyone, the life follows the same 
course. Scorpio holds all the secrets. Some we seek and some we may 
prefer not to remember. It often makes us take to a spiritual path so the 
wind of realization can blow through us without any disturbance to the 
mind and soul. 


Mars is exalted at 28 degrees of Capricorn. It is debilitated at the 
opposite position of 28 degrees of Cancer. Exaltation is different than 
own sign. In it, the Graha is shining at its brightest, metaphorically, rather 
like a king in his throne room. The own signs, Aries and Scorpio are 
where Mars is in his office or at home. These are much lower pressure 
locations so they are more stable. In the debilitation place, the Graha can 
indicate a struggle to be all you want to be. A specific peak degree is only 
applicable to exaltation and debilitation. The peak exaltation occurs in a 
specific Nakshatra. 


162 Yoga of the Planets 


Mars is exalted in Dhanishtha. This Nakshatra is said to be where 
Lord Shiva plays his Damaru drum and produces the sounds of our 
alphabet. From thence, all the wisdom and learning of mankind comes. 
Therefore, this Nakshatra is said to be excellent for learning. Its ruler, the 
eight Vasus, are the gods of the earthly plane. Perhaps this is connected to 
Mars’ rulership over land and property. 


Mars is debilitated in Ashlesa. This Nakshatra has the energy of 
the celestial serpents. This can give very elevated experiences or it can be 
associated with lower snake energy. Mars dislikes the snake energy and 
also Ashlesa‘s Graha ruler Mercury. It is an uncomfortable place. Ashlesa 
is a place where knowledge comes from inner insight. Mars prefers logic 
and reason. Rahu and Ketu have snake energy so Mars’ association with 
them can be difficult. On the other hand, they can instigate Mars energy to 
flow through the subtle channels. This association can mean the 
experiences of rising Kundalini arise at some stage in our life. 


go Tala AA: 
om medhavine namah 


104. Highly learned and intelligent. 


He can learn perfectly, just by listening to the teacher. Medhavin 
can indicate a state of intoxication with the bliss of pure knowledge. As 
someone progresses in Yoga, there comes a stage where they are 
inebriated with bliss. 


do FAAATION AA: 


om mitabhasanaya namah 


105. Having measured (Mita) speech (Bhésana). Not speaking much. 


It also means that when he achieves his goal, he says little, there 
is no boasting. That is why itis said that ‘one who knows does not say and 
one who says does not know’ (Lao Tzu). 


Mars, Mangala 163 


3 Waa AA: 


om sukhapradaya namah 


106. Giving (Prada) happiness (Sukha). 


That state of awakening gives happiness and one in that state 
sheds happiness all around. 


0 FRA AA: 
om suripaksaya namah 
107. Beautiful (Surdpa) eyed (Aksa). 


The true beauty is seen in the eyes. You can see into someone's 
soul by looking into his or her eyes. 


do FaNeneea Aa: 


om sarvabhistaphalapradaya namah 


108. Giving (Prada) the fruit (Phala) of all (Sarva) we desire (Abhista). 


In his overflowing abundance of joy, he grants all the wishes of 
his devotees just as great kings and rulers satisfy the desires of their 
people. 


Pauly 


~ 


Om tatsat 


164 Yoga of the Planets 


* wa * 
oases ed 
cart a ow 


Mercury, Budha 


Mercury, Budha 165 


MERCURY, BUDHA 


3 FAT AA: 


om budhaya namah 


J. Salutations to the learned one. 


Budha has a great depth of meaning. It has the sense of awaking, 
being learned and wise; to know, learn, and perceive as well as causing 
others to learn or realize. When the Sun causes a flower to expand its 
blossoms, that is Budh. The awakening of consciousness is Budh. Buddha 
is the awakened one, and this is derived grammatically from Budh. 


go qarFiaa aa: 


om budharcitaya namah 


2. Worshipped by the wise. 


Budha is the light (Archi) of wisdom itself. It is that light that is 
praised, not some personality. When we honour a sage or anyone, we are 
praising their wisdom and other qualities, not the individuality. If 
someone praises us and we take it personally and our ego rises up, then 
this can then lead to much trouble. In the ancient law book, the Manu 
Smriti, it says that praise burns up the virtues of a person like a forest fire. 
On the other hand, when people speak ill of you, they are kindly taking 
your sins on their own heads. That is why we should be careful of 
listening to those who praise us and be grateful of our abusers. ! think 
anyone who pays attention will know the truth of this. Life is really quite 
different from what it appears to be, 


We all have the light of wisdom within us. It is like a small flame 
that grows with care and attention. Initially, we may have to be extremely 
quiet to bring it to conscious awareness. Having found it, then we should 
give it the fuel of attention every day. The wise are those who constantly 
attend the flame. Traditionally, the sacred fire is worshipped at every 
junction of the day: sunrise, midday (apparent noon) and sunset. The 


166 Yoga of the Planets 


junction times are moments of quiet in nature when it is easier to find the 
inner light. If we keep feeding the fire it may burn so bright that it never 
leaves our awareness. 


H Ta ae: 
om saumyaya namah 


3. Peaceful, content. 


Saumya can mean born from Soma, which is a name of the Moon. 
It is said that Jupiter was married to Tara (star) but then the Moon eloped 
with her and she bore Mercury by him. Eventually, by the intervention of 
Brahma, the creator, Tara was restored to Jupiter. When Jupiter saw the 
child, it was so beautiful that his anger melted and he adopted the child. 
From this we know that Mercury indicates adoption and also a Guru's 
(Jupiter) students who are like his children during their studies. Also, that 
Mercury can make a person very handsome or charming. 


The nature of true wisdom is that it leaves us in a very gentle and 
peaceful inner state. Like the Moon or the Divine Mother, it has great 
softness and is utterly relaxed. The person may be very active in their life 
butinternally there is a calm steadiness. 


do Gear aa: 


om saumyacittaya namah 


4. Of peaceful mind. 


This state of peace (Saumya) pervades al! the active states of the 
mind. Citta is the heart, the mind, the memory, the intellect and reason. It 
is also what we see and desire. Everything is made calm. Mercury 
(reason) and the Moon (feeling, desire) tend to compete causing 
confusion. The solution lies in this state of peacefulness, which arises 
from the awakening of true knowledge. 


% BAN AA: 


om subhapradaya namah 


5, Giver (Prada) of all good (Shubha). 


Mercury, Budha 167 


Real peace gives every kind of useful benefit. There is nothing to 
compare with it other than those sublime states that arise from it. Out of 
one awakening, another arises, each more beautiful than the last. One 
experience is the flow of insights into problems as they come to mind, 
small or big. Others are the internal openings, the spiritual awakenings. 
This flow can happen to anyone, it only takes a little bit of peace in the 
heart. The world is full of distractions. This is why, when we have a 
problem to solve, we put down out phones and computers and go fora 
walk on our own in the park or go and sit in a shrine. 


4 waa AA: 


om drdhavrataya namah 


6. Of firm vows (Drdha Vrata). 


Firm means persisting with what one vows to do. Mercury rules 
two zodiac signs: Gemini, an air sign and Virgo, an earth sign. Air gives 
movement and earth gives stability. When resolved, its undertakings can 
be unshakeable. 


This name gives us the clue that Mercury is the planet that has 
the willingness and capability to repeat a mantra very many times. This is 
helpful for spiritual practices as well as in the Vedic remedies. These are 
to help if some area of one’s life is blocked or afflicted. This typically 
involves spending a few minutes or hours a day for 40 days or a year 
repeating a particular mantra. Perhaps one has to repeat it 100,000 
times. When you start doing it, it starts to work and that may involve, on 
occasions, some tough experiences as one’s dysfunctions get redressed. It 
is like a washing machine. If one does not have a firm resolve, one will not 
keep at it and little will be achieved. The astrological chart shows us our 
limitations. We can then work to lessen these limits or not, as we wish. If 
we chouse to wear them away, we will have to do the work involved but 
the rewards are great. 


3 CURA AA: 
om drdhaphalaya namah 


7. Giving stable, long-lasting results. 


168 Yoga of the Planets 


Dhrdaha indicates that the results (Phala) of the vows undertaken 
are not momentary but have real and profound implications. This 
underlines that a firm resolveis always essential for success. 


Je TAATSTINTGTA AA: 
om srutijalaprabodhakaya namah 


8. Competent in creating an effect. 


Shrutijala can mean magic or illusion. It can also mean the 
collection (fala) of the Vedic hymns. They are called Shruti, that which is 
heard or cognized. Prabodhaka suggests great power or ability. 


Having made a firm vow to accomplish something, how is this 
undertaken by Budha? Here we are told that his learning and skill are 
employed. While Mars shows his sword, Mercury skillfully creates an 
effect to direct the minds of others to support his intent. If he is expert in 
mantras, he can even harness the subtle powers of nature. This can be 
thought of as magic and there are legitimate and illegitimate uses of 
mantra. Those who indulge in black magic are digging themselves a deep 
hole. However skilful, sooner or later they fall into the well of their own 
creation from which it is hard to escape. 


Mantras done for self-purification and awakening are harmless, if 
we know what we are doing. Some mantras, like those in this book, are 
safe, However, please read the section Caveat on page 9. Others are meant 
to be received from an expert who can determine their suitability for the 
person. There are many rules and it is desirable that the teacher has 
awakened the Shakti of the mantra through their own consciousness and 
practice. 


% AIST AA: 


om satya'vasaya namah 


9, Truth is dwelling in him. Clothed only in truth. 


Satya is truth. Avdsa is unclothed or naked. This name is 
mentioned here to counter any possible misunderstanding from the last 
name. Black magic or any kind of deceit is not truth. Truth is never 
deceitful. Therefore, the only type of Mantric application that is legitimate 
is if it transforms the user to a higher state and makes him or her fit for a 
better destiny. Some people are born with some kind of ability. With little 


Mercury, Budha 169 


effort, they can make others or even natural forces do their bidding. | 
have personally observed that exploiting such power is not advisable 
except in extreme circumstances. The difficulty is that one does not know 
the scope of what one is doing. 


Suppose there is a drought and you make it rain. If you have that 
blessing, which is directly related to Mercury and the nodes, this is not 
difficult. However, what happens to the weather in other places because 
of the change you induced? Has some farmer who needed rain been 
deprived because the rain went elsewhere? I’m giving a very mild 
example but I have seen more serious cases. We humans are expert in 
exploiting the natural world. If we had more power we would use it. 
Thank God we are given only a little even though it can be increased with 
practice 


That is why, first, we have to rise above our animal nature. 
Really, we are two creatures in one body. There is the violent, 
exploitative, selfish lower nature and there is the divine, selfless and 
utterly noble higher nature. We are all a mix. Infinite power resides at the 
base of the spine and it is part of the great intelligence of nature that it 
cannot be fully utilized by the selfish small ego. However, there are 
intermediate stages. It is like a novice warrior who is given a weapon 
after some training but before the full course is completed. At this stage, 
he might easily hurt himself or others. So, some power can be gained 
before the selfishness is transcended and that little power looks like a lot 
to the average human. That is how some bad things happen. The story of 
the sage Milarepa (Moon 6), It is a helpful example. 


do Geaqaaa AA: 


om satyavacase namah 


10, Speaking truth (Satya Vachas). 


He embodies truth and communicates it. Those fond of a 
particular religion naturally feel their book is the word of God and is the 
highest truth. That is why we expect the religious people to exemplify 
truthfulness. 


The signs of Mercury are opposite those of Jupiter. They are the 
two planets of learning and knowledge and represent the teacher, Jupiter, 
and the student, Mercury. When they join in the sky, itis said to be a Guru 
Shishya (teacher + student) Yoga and is very auspicious. The intelligence 
of Mercury guided by the wisdom of Jupiter, is the best possible situation. 


170 Yoga of the Planets 


How the yoga expresses itself depends on the sign(s) of the zodiac 
involved. For example, Cancer gives the highest philosophy while Scorpio 
may take a Tantric angle. Whatever we find in this world, it is a result of 
the combinations of planets and constellations. Each person is a unique 
expression, evolving according to the Divine Will and thus perfect in 
God's view. 


Traditionally, each Guru saw what the tendency of the student 
was and gave him or her the appropriate kind of knowledge and work. 
That is why individual guidance is best. An instruction given to someone 
else is just for them unless it rings in our heart. Great teachers can answer 
our questions even if we are unable to get close enough to ask. We only 
need to be alert for the clues. 


The Mercury Jupiter conjunction has other names. Jupiter rules 
the North-East where Gemini lies in the Vedic chart. As this is the 
direction of Ishana (Shiva), this combination is called [shana Yoga. In 
Lord Krishna’s chart, Mercury and Jupiter are conjoined in planetary war 
in the fifth house. This house can indicate books and the great Bhagavad 
GitG was expounded on the battlefield. Hence, this Yoga is sometimes 
called the Bhagavad Gita Yoga. It is highly fruitful and auspicious. [t can 
start wisdom lineages. 


The opposition of Mercury and Jupiter represents the debate 
between the teacher and the student. A bright student delights the 
teacher by asking difficult questions. The simple and devoted also delight 
the teacher because their simplicity is the essence of truth. The great Adi 
Shankaracharya had four disciples. Two had great learning and the third 
exceptional realization. The fourth washed the master’s clothes and 
performed other needed service. Through this simple devotion, he was 
the first to realize the complete knowledge. The Guru appointed him as 
the master of the knowledge in the North. 


Mercury, unless retrograde, is debilitated in Pisces, a sign of 
Jupiter. Pisces is the 12' sign of the zodiac and represents the end of the 
path. In Pisces, all our attempts at self-promotion have to end so we can 
fit through the slim gateway into the field of bliss. Overcoming the ego is 
the challenge of every Pisces Ascendant. When Mercury is exalted, we are 
full of brilliant ideas or busy with collecting wealth. The debilitation is the 
challenge to accept the wisdom of Jupiter without trying to reinvent it. 
Whatever Graha is in Pisces, there is the opportunity to gently let go of its 
agenda. This can make the Graha very auspicious. 


Mercury, Budha 171 


So ATA Taal AH: 
om Sreyasam pataye namah 


11. Lord among the righteous or fortunate. 


Pati is the leading person or lord and Shreyasam are the blessed 
or most fortunate ones. Having a strong Mercury is a great blessing. It 
suggests a good intellect and the intelligent always rise to the top. 


Homo Sapiens rules the Earth because of our vastly greater 
intelligence. The other hominids must have fallen a little short despite 
having greater physical strength in some cases, so they are gone. Now the 
question arises, what if the universe or some lab comes up with another 
species that is far more intelligent? If we are just a few genetic mutations 
away from the great apes, then this seems most likely to occur. 


This line of thought always brings me back to the extraordinary 
yogis that have existed over the millennia. People who have capabilities 
that are so beyond the ordinary that most people cannot believe they 
exist. Some are said to have lived for thousands of years or have various 
abilities like levitation. A few years ago, when I was visiting India, I was 
told about a sage who was, at that time, living in a lake. He came out every 
few weeks for a few hours and then went back under the water. The fish 
would nibble at his skin but no people disturbed him. 


Finding a place to meditate undisturbed is very hard. That is why 
the yogis go so far into the Himalaya. Mountaineers saw beings walking in 
remote and uninhabitable places and there was talk about ‘yetis’. Actually 
there is a Sanskrit word Yati for an ascetic. These people are protected by 
our disbelief but if they exist, and there are eyewitness reports that they 
do, then they would be a match for any advanced species, human or alien. 


In one of the Vedic texts, the Yoga Vasistha, that is believed to be 
extremely ancient, it describes a voyage undertaken by two ladies far 
beyond our Solar system. The Goddess Saraswati visits Queen Lila and 
decides to take her on a tour of the universe. Refer to Ketu 105 for more 
on this story. Whatever one’s willingness to believe, the statements in the 
Yoga Vasistha are surely quite remarkable. 


3 AAA FA: 


om avyayaya namah 


12. Imperishable. 


172 Yoga of the Planets 


While force perishes (Vyaya), truthful intelligence survives 
(Avyaya). Ultimately, only pure Truth is imperishable. It is the supreme 
blessing that this is knowable. 


Aaa aA: 


om somajaya namah 


13. Born (Ja) of the Moon (Soma). 


Soma is the nectar of immortality. Imperishability comes from 
Soma, and Soma is the nectar of Truth. By adhering to truth we come 
closer to that and begin to feel the influence of the Soma. This makes us 
longer lived. That is how some saints in India have lived for hundreds or 
thousands of years. Of course, some people will find this incredible but | 
am not trying to convince anyone. If you spend time in India, you will see 
amazing things. The incredible can become credible. For most people, 
however, this longevity is more a matter of consciousness. One feels an 
inner sense of immortality and increasingly loses the fear of death. 


% Fac aH: 


om sukhadaya namah 


14. The giver (Da) of happiness (Sukha). 


Truth is the only source of real happiness because it generates 
Soma, which is the essence of bliss. Mercury can represent all kinds of 
entertainment and entertainers. Gemini is especially associated with such 
people. Since its central part contains the constellation of tears, Ardra, we 
get the classic tragic comic, someone who makes everyone laugh but has 
a tough personal life, or the tragicomedy of Shakespeare and others. 
Ardra often produces astrologers. They have to see from where the crying 
is coming and try to bring some laughter. 


do Sd Aa: 


om Srimate namah 


15. Possessed ofall auspiciousness and wealth. 


Mercury, Budha 173 


Shriman is also the first name of the Moon, the father of Mercury. 
The lineage of the Moon is full of auspiciousness. 


do aadamdiqara aa: 


om somavamSapradipakaya namah 


16. Shining (Pradipaka) in the family of the Moon (Soma Vamsha). 


He is the outstanding member of that lineage. The Moon and 
Mercury have a complex relationship. In the story, the Moon is the father 
of Mercury but in the chart the Moon is the mother. She, the mother, loves 
him but he sees her as an enemy. It is natural for a mother to love her 
child but children who have been born under unfortunate circumstances 
may blame their parents. Mercury, according to the story of his birth 
(Moon 3), was a bastard child. Even though he was adopted by his 
mother’s husband, he feels badly towards his mother. These stories make 
it easy for us to remember the relationships between the Grahas in Vedic 
Astrology, At the same time, we see the same thing playing out in day-to- 
day life. 


do aafee aH: 
om vedavide namah 


17. The knower (Vid) of the Veda. 


Mercury shines gloriously when it has imbued good knowledge. 
The Veda is the highest knowledge because it was not a human creation; 
the seers heard the hymns deep in their meditation and sung them out. 
Others copied them down. It is said ‘Vedavid vedaiva bhavati’, the knower 
of the Veda is the Veda itself, or becomes That. Listening to the Vedic 
hymns thrills the soul because it awakens the finest impulses of creation 
and consciousness itself. The words of the enlightened have a similar 
effect and the texts they have written are very powerful. 


do Fecqraga AA: 


om vedatattvajfidya namah 


18. The knower (/fia) of the essence (Tattva) of the Veda. 


174 Yoga of the Planets 


Knowing the Veda is the first level of being a seer. Beyond that 
there is the level of fathoming the essence of it and expounding that for 
the benefit of others. 


 AaeagOPATeHT AA: 


om vedantajfanabhaskaraya namah 


19. Shining (Bhdskara) with the knowledge (/fidna) of Vedanta. 


What is the ultimate essence of the Veda? It is called Vedanta, 
literally the end, ‘anta’, of the Veda. Vedanta is the wisdom of Oneness. It 
arises from the direct experience of a state where all creation appears 
like a dream within a grand wholeness. The dream is real but transient 
and as such appears unreal. The wholeness is dominant. This makes the 
dream secondary or as if an illusion (Maya). 


Anyone who persists with their spiritual practices can reach this 
state even if they have never heard of it. In fact it is mever as one has 
heard, being inherently indescribable. Different intellects will express 
their experience differently and this can give rise to various philosophies. 
These philosophies can be useful if one has the experience described. 


do franfeaeonra aa: 


om vidyavicaksanaya namah 


20. Skilful (Vicaksana) in knowledge (Vidya). 


Vidya indicates all kinds of knowledge from the sacred lore of the 
Vedas to all the arts and sciences. It can include special mantras and other 
techniques for doing magic. Mercury can be expert in this. It may be 
beneficial if not associated with any greed or selfishness. 


do fags aa: 


om viduse namah 


21. Wise (Vidus). 


Whatever skill one has acquired must be associated with real 
wisdom. Book learning helps as a preparation. The biggest problem with 
learning is the acquisition of concepts. Concepts have their value but they 


Mercury, Budha 175 


cover up our innate knowing. Once we buy into ‘the world is like this’, 
then we stop innocently seeing the world as it is. All propaganda is about 
selling a concept because, once one has bought in, one is easily 
manipulated using that concept as a platform. It generates communities 
of people who imagine they are like-minded because they are all 
subscribers to a particular concept and that can be a positive thing until 
those managing the concept start a conflict with the members of a 
another conceptual group. 


If one is to truly know oneself, one has to peel off the layers of 
concepts until the inner innocence is revealed. It is about letting go of 
concepts such as ‘l am female or male’. The realities remain but the 
identification with the differentiation loses its addictive grip. The soul is 
neither male nor female. It can take a female body and then take a male 
one. If there has been a long series of female bodies and then a male body 
is assumed, after some time the person may think ‘something is wrong, | 
should have been female’. The subtle structures of past lives remain and 
we are influenced by them but we only rarely visually remember 
memories of those lives. However, if we observe our experiences, we can 
figure out many things about these shadows. You go to a place and feel as 
if you've been there before. You meet a stranger but they seem familiar. A 
child is born and from the earliest age has particular talents or strong 
interests. How did Mozart start composing at the age of five? 


My scientific colleagues may try to show that by some freak of 
chance, Mozart’s brain had some special wiring, which is all fine. That is 
the shadow I am talking about and it does not matter whether you want 
to make theories about past lives or imagine it is all chance. However, the 
evidence fOr past lives is quite extensive. Close to my home, the famous 
University of Virginia has a department specializing in reincarnation 
research. They have a database of over 2500 cases where children have 
given information about a previous life, which has been checked out to a 
greater or lesser degree. I have personally come across two clear cut 
cases like that, perhaps you have too. Since I started talking about it, 
several people have brought me their own experiences that sound 
convincing. I, myself, have thought forms from multiple cultures. This 
helps me identify with many different people. Had I been repeatedly 
reborn in the same culture, | would be one of those people fighting to 
protect it against any ‘foreign’ intrusion. 


I can identify with Americans, Europeans, Indians, Africans, 
Chinese and Arabs but who am !? The truth is ‘none of the above’. All of 
that is what is. My Indian shadow, an old pandit, is very strong. When | 
visit a Middle-Eastern country, I can sense I was a scholar there once and 
it is quite emotional. The only way to handle it is to let it be just as itis, let 


176 Yoga of the Planets 


go of all the concepts and then there is a chance of knowing the real truth. 
The emotional body may stil! experience the dramas of the shadows but 
that is just the environment of the Self. The Selfis beyond all racesand all 
places. 


So fagentearra aA: 


om vidvatpritikaraya namah 


22. He causes fondness (Pritikara) of those possessed of wisdom (Vidvat). 


He represents those who are delighted by the wise or learned 
and they are delighted with him. Delighted means any kind of joy, 
friendliness or kindness. A teacher is always looking for a good student. 


fo Fad AA: 


om rjave namah 


23. Upright, honest, straightforward, favourable (Rju). 


The wise love those who are honest and upright and they help 
them. Good rulers attract good advisors. If the ruler is not honest the 
good advisors prefer to busy themselves in their private studies and with 
their students though they will do their best to protect the people 
through good advice, if asked. 


% 1dUROGARY AA: 


om visvanukulasaficaraya namah 


24. Bringing about (Saficara) universal kindness. (Vi§va Anuktla) 


He has an attitude of agreeableness towards everything. The 
mark of a truly wise person is that they do not harbour any negative 
attitudes. Lord Rama, who had to fight the demon Ravana who stole his 
wife, is the exemplar as he was never heard speaking ill of anyone. 


The state of enlightenment is a state where everything is seen to 
emanate from or be of the same essence as the Self. One has no issuewith 
one’s own Being. There is a state where every body is equally one’s own 
body. if one experiences this state, then it is easy to understand. 
Otherwise, we concern ourselves with one body and to a lesser extent a 


Mercury, Budha 177 


few others who appear close to us. It has been wisely said, ‘knowledge is 
different in different states of consciousness’. 


% faarstaaairaar aa: 


om viSesavinayanvitaya namah 


25. Possessed (Anvita) of exceptional politeness (Vishesa Vinaya), good 
conduct. 


If Mercury is not strong, then we have to try a little harder to be 
polite. Vedic Astrology says that Mercury alone is exalted in its own sign, 
That means, if we want to exhibit more of Mercury's good qualities, we 
have to use our own intelligence and determination to do so. For 
example, if we want to spend time with people who do not swear and we 
have got into a habit of using swear words, then we can adjust if we 
firmly decide ta do so and practise not swearing. It is the Pygmalion (My 
Fair Lady) story and all of us can up our game if for some reason we wish 
to do so. However, whether we have a certain type of behaviour or not 
has nothing to do with real wisdom. Society has concepts about what 
defines politeness. Mercury is capable of adjusting well to that. 


2 Taran aa: 

om vividhagamasarajfiaya namah 

26. The knower (/fia) of the essence (Sara) of manifold scriptures and 
sciences (Vividha Agama). 


The essence of the subject is determined by the intellect because 
that is its function. It keeps penetrating until it reaches the finest level. 


3 alaqd aa: 


om viryavate namah 


27. Endowed with vitality (Virya). 


Vitality arises from knowing the essence. The word Sara used in 
the previous name (Mercury 26), means essence. It is closely related to 
the word Rasa, which is like the sap of a plant. Ayurveda makes 
Rasayanas, herbal preparations, which make the body strong. Subtle 


178 Yoga of the Planets 


insight vitalizes the intelligence. The vision of wholeness is the highest 
form of Rasa and revitalizes everything, even one’s environment. 


fo PR Tasata Aa: 


om vigatajvaraya namah 


28. Free from anxiety, fever (fvara). Literally, dispersing (Vigata) it. 


We may be anxious about using a machine until we understand 
how it works. In this way, proper knowledge removes anxiety like proper 
medicine removes fever. The knowledge of the unified wholeness of life 
removes the ultimate cause of all distress. 


se ¢ 
go aH AA: 
om trivargaphaladaya namah 


29. Giving (Da) fruits (Phala) to the initiated. 


What is it that gives fruits to the initiated? It must be the object 
of their devotion, the Supreme Being. This is why, Mercury, the Graha, is 
associated with Lord Vishnu. Vishnu means the all-pervading One who 
sustains everything. Because he sustains everything, he is concerned 
about the social order and welfare. 


Trivarga can refer to the three twice-born Varnas or sections of 
society. That is, all the people who would take initiation into the Gayatrt 
Mantra and practice it three times a day at sunrise, apparent noon and 
sunset. Whether one is fit for initiation has nothing intrinsically to do 
with one’s family background. If one is sincerely interested in higher 
wisdom, then one is fit for initiation. 


One’s group as defined by Varna is based on one’s mental 
propensity. Caste is a corruption of this based on birth. Caste systems of 
various kinds are found in most countries. After the Norman invasion of 
England in 1066, the society became intensely stratified and this only 
started to fall away quite recently. 


Only a few hundred years ago, certainly in parts of India, caste 
was determined by one’s choice of profession. Then it degenerated into a 
question of birth and some who were born into high caste families forgot 
the compassion of their forebears and obtained a Jow reputation for their 
clan. Naturally, children tend to follow the behaviour and profession of 


Mercury, Budha 179 


their parents. Where they follow a different path, they should be 
considered to belong to the ‘caste’ that suits their mentality and activities. 
That is, if one insists on having a caste concept at all. In reality, the 
disrespect earned by many ‘high caste’ people in India was due to simple 
human selfishness and misplaced pride while their family tradition was 
one of humility, generosity and care for the needy. 


Vedic Astrologers and teachers of any Vedic discipline are 
Brahmins by profession. Therefore, they must set a very high example 
and maintain a regular spiritual practice. The sages say to be a Brahmin 
one must have a regular spiritual practice. After all, such practice has 
many precious benefits. 


4 Weediya AA: 


om anantaya namah 


30. Endless (Ananta). 


That which is endless is the Supreme Being. Some might say that 
intellectual enquiries into knowledge are also endless, by which they 
mean that they will never reach the Supreme. If, however, they do reach 
the Supreme they end in the endless. 


If we have a strong influence of Mercury, we may tend to talk too 
much. If we can, we should convert this into the useful tendency of 
continuously repeating a mantra like this one while taking proper care 
when driving, handling machinery and any other task that requires full 
attention. 


Ananta is said to be the great Naga in serpent form on whom the 
Lord Vishnu rests. Ananta is the ruler of the upward direction and 
identified with Ketu, while Mercury’s deity is Vishnu. Both are all- 
pervading and thus endless. Ananta is said to recite the names of Vishnu 
through his 1000 mouths, typifying the firmness of worship indicated in 
Mercury 6. 


Thus the natural uprising of the Kundalini Shakti, the power of 
awakening, is indicated here as well as the result of this uprising, which is 
unbounded awareness, consciousness that is endless. The image of 
Vishnu resting on Ananta represents that endless consciousness that 
rests on the uprisen Kundalint. 


Ananta is' said to have taken human form from time to time. His 
incarnations include Balarama, the brother of Shri Krishna, Maharishi 


180 Yoga of the Planets 


jaimini, who taught the most advanced knowledge of Jyotisha as well as 
the Purva Mimansa, and Maharishi Patafijali, who taught the great Yoga 
Sutras. The Yoga Sutras uplift our consciousness to a unified state and the 
Purva Mimansa then refines that condition so that only the ultimate onset 
of Brahman Consciousness remains. Beyond that there is no more 
meaning to states of consciousness though the process of refinement of 
the physical is endless. 


$o Preaantragistas 7a: 
om tridasadhipapUjitaya namah 


31. Worshipped (Pajita) by Indra, king (Adhipa) of the gods and the 
wholeness of natural law. 


The laws of nature are ever bowing to the Supreme Being, 
Vishnu. All of nature serves the wise. Tridasha means 3x10 or 30. This 
points towards the 30 degrees in each sign and specifically to the division 
of the sign into three sections of 10 degrees each. These are variously 
called Drkana, Dreskana, Drekkana, etc. Mercury has Lord Vishnu as his 
deity but which form? This name reminds us that it depends in which 
Drekkana it falls. The first indicates Lord Rama, the second Lord Krsna 
and the third other of the ten avatars depending on the chart. 


do afer aa: 


om buddhimate namah 


32. Possessed (Man) of intelligence. 


This tells us explicitly that Buddhi or intellect has to be seen from 
Mercury in the chart. Buddhi has a very wide meaning including 
reasoning, judgment, comprehension, perception, meditation, presence of 
mind, having a ready wit, havinga right opinion, and more. 


Those ruled by Mercury exhibit all these things including a love 
for wittiness. People with a strong Mercury tend to crack jokes or use 
words cleverly. 


Gh AGAMA AA: 


om bahusastrajfiaya namah 


Mercury, Budha 181 


33. Knowing (/fa) many sacred texts (Bahu Shastra). 


He knows many subjects. Mercury rules over two dual signs, 
Gemini and Virgo. A characteristic of dual signs is that they cause us to do 
multiple things at once which, being Mercury, means wanting to learn 
many things. 


do afd AA: 


om baline namah 


34. Strong (Balin). 


Even though Mercury is a small fast moving planet, its influence 
is strong. That is why Maharishi Parashara gives his astrological aspect 
full strength. The only other planet so endowed is Jupiter, 


do Faq aa: 


om bandhavimocakaya namah 


35. Completely destroying (Vimochaka) bondage (Bandha). 


Ignorance disappears when knowledge is acquired. Self- 
realization removes the illusion that ‘lam this body and personality’ and 
all the bondage that comes with that. The twelfth house of the astrological 
chart indicates bondage especially imprisonment, hospitalization, staying 
in an ashram or marriage. While the word bondage has a negative 
connotation, some forms of bondage, like marriage, are often much 
desired. Commitment is good. If there is a problem, it is to do with an 
internal identification with the experience, not the external situation. 
That identification is removed by real knowledge. 


Mercury indicates childhood, especially from four to twelve, and 
can promote childish behavior. Having multiple affairs without a 
commitment is a very immature expression of Mercury. In the immature 
state we avoid commitment to avoid ‘bondage’. In the mature state, we 
seek knowledge so we are free in the midst of all kinds of commitments. 


H alee Aa: 
om-vakratrvakragamanaya namah 


182 Yoga of the Planets 


36. Having both retrograde (Vakra) and very retrograde (Ativakra) 
motions (Gamana). 


Very retrograde means the phase of its apparent motion when 
the planet is moving backwards very fast. Mercury, being closer to the 
Sun than the Earth, appears to swing backward and forward in the sky 
and has the fastest backward motion of any planet. Vakra also has the 
sense of irregular motion. The Sun would be the example of regularity 
and Mercury's frequent change of direction is seen as irregular. 


30 Faas AH: 


om vasavaya namah 


37. Wealthy (Vdsava). 


Mercury rules over money and thus wealth (Vasu). An intelligent 
person is rarely poor unless that is his choice. Mercury gives both an 
interest and skill in business. Real wealth is a state of inner abundance 
and clarity. This name can also mean having the results of excellence or 
benevolence (Vasu). He rises up due to his good qualities, It is much more 
than just money. 


Ho FqUIRIG AH: 

om vasudhadhipaya namah 

38. The lord (Adhipa) of the earth (Vasudhé). An emperor. Literally, the 
lord of wealth creation and liberality. 


A strong Mercury can indicate the most wealthy tycoons. A 
penniless English woman wrote a few books using her fertile imagination 
and became wealthier than the Queen of England - J.K. Rowling, 


do TeaaGAa AA: 


om prasannavadanaya namah 


39. Has pleasant or pleasing speech (Prasanna Vadana). 


If a writer's book is going to be read it has to please the readcr. If 
the whole world likes it, you are made. If one’s consciousness is pure, 
every word is delightful, whatever the words spoken. It carries a pleasing, 


Mercury, Budha 183 


enlivening vibration. Whatever is one’s state of mind and heart is what is 
conveyed, whatever the words one utters. Vadana can also mean the face. 
His look, his words and the points he makes are all pleasing. 


$0 deayta 4H: 
om vandyaya namah 


40. Worshipped (Vandya). 


If people like your words, they may even become adoring fans, 
disciples or followers. Social media is heavily into Mercury! 


do qeoaa aA: 
om varenyaya namah 


41. Pre-eminent (Varenya). The desired one. 


Those with a strong Mercury are highly intelligent and the 
intelligent rule the Earth and the skies, We see that the smart overcome 
the strong but the kind of intelligence exhibited by the great sages is 
entirely beyond any kind of ‘smart’ we know. It is a strange and 
wondrous thing that the powers of nature will serve the truly intelligent. 
The mark of true intelligence is the complete lack of neediness and 
egotism. 


One who has realized that level of intelligence has nothing 
further to acquire so takes nothing from anyone but constantly gives. 
That is why we all feel drawn to such people. We hope to get a little of 
their vastness. We pretend to be devoted but it is all selfishness. Even so, 
there is no blame because we know that we need help to rise higher and 
the wise want to help. It is their God-given task so there is no harm in 
approaching them. As long as we offer some service to them if the chance 
arises, there is no fault. 


om vagvilaksanaya namah 


42. Of extraordinary speech (Vag Vilaksana). 


184 Yoga of the Planets 


What one says or writes is exceptional in one way or another, 
which can include puns and strange or unexpected expressions. 
Naturally, this includes tales of wizardry. Motion pictures and other art 
with something of the extraordinary in them are highly popular. This 
name may help those with writers block. 


a ba’ 
30 Acddd Au: 
om satyavate namah 


43. Truthful (Satya Vat). 


While Mercury can represent many kinds of expression, the best 
is one that expresses the highest truth. Someone with a strong Mercury 
should be naturally truthful. However, Mercury, being mercurial, is easily 
influenced by other planets as well as the sign it is in. The influence of 
Jupiter and the Sun are good as they have a natural purity being Sattvic. 
The Moon is also Sattvic so its influence is good but, as we have discussed, 
Mercury has issues with the Moon. Other planets can lead Mercury astray. 
If it were not so, the lawyers would have little business to do. 


The Tamas Grahas, Mars, Saturn, Rahu and Ketu can easily 
modify the truth for their own ends. They tend to be careless with it. 
Venus, being Rajas, likes the idea of truth but it is not always expedient. If 
Jupiter associates, then the person will likely be truthful. This is also true 
if the person’s Ascendant and Moon are strongly associated with the 
Sattva Grahas. 


 Waaacds aa: 


om satyasamkalpaya namah 


44, Of truthful (Satya) intention (Samkalpa). 


Earlier we saw that Mercury can make a firm resolution and 
thereby gain great results. Sankalpa also means a definite intention to do 
something and here we see that it should be grounded in truth. Those 
ruled by Mercury must take care not to succumb to any dishonest plan. 


3a Aaqedd AA: 


om satyabandhave namah 


Mercury, Budha 185 


45. Of truthful (Satya) association (Bandhu). 


Only a few decades ago, all business transactions in London, for 
example in the gem trade, were done witha handshake. Often there were 
no paper contracts. It was well known that ‘An Englishman’s word is his 
bond.’ It was even more true in India when the traditional practices were 
prevalent and it certainly is true of good people all over the world today. 
However, it seems that cheating and criminality are increasing, especially 
copyright violation. Honesty is the principal currency of a prosperous 
society. Without it, the money drains into the accounts of lawyers and 
security firms, Wealth still circulates but much less efficiently because 
every stage has to be more carefully guarded. Eventually, society 
becomes ungovernable. 


! once visited a country and my host was said to be the only truly 
reliable and entirely honest person. He meditated every day. He was quite 
old but the (highly corrupt) President called him out of retirement to 
head the department that decides all estate issues. The President knew 
that if he gave that job to anyone else, there would be chaos as every 
issue would be decided by a bribe. Even in an utterly corrupt 
government, an honest person is like gold because if there is no honesty, 
the whole structure collapses and then all the corrupt profits go with it. 
My friend died and, as it happened, shortly after that the country 
descended into civil war. The people were the nicest people but those 
who got themselves into positions of power often took advantage of it, as 
happens in many countries. 


This name can also mean having truthful relatives and friends 
and Mercury is the significator for these in the Vedic chart. 


do Galea AA: 


om sadadaraya namah 


46. Always (Sada) respectful. 


Adara is also reverence, honour, care, attention and eagerness. 
We have seen the importance of truthfulness. Now we are alerted to the 
importance of respectfulness as well as proper care and attention. These 
are all the keys to success in business as well as life in general. Purified 
consciousness respects everything because it sees itself in everything, 


186 Yoga of the Planets 


do TARAS AA: 
om-sarvarogaprasamanaya namah 


47. Quieting (Prashamana) all (Sarva) diseases. 


Roga is that which, literally, breaks up strength. Mercury rules 
over Virgo which is the place of herbs and medicine. If one’s Moon is in 
Virgo, or is connected with it, then one may follow a healing profession. 
Virgo is the sixth sign and is thereby connected to the sixth house, which 
rules over health and disease. Specifically it rules over the colon and good 
digestion is the key to good health. Virgo’s main issue is weak digestion. If 
the consciousness is pure, then the digestion is not disturbed by the 
fluctuating state of the mind. Medicine and meditation, Ayurveda and 
Yoga, are the means indicated here. Mercury is therefore a key planet for 
doctors and medicine, 


do Vaca AA: 


om sarvamrtyunivarakaya namah 


48. Warding off (Nivaraka) all (Sarva) (causes of) death (Mrtyu). 


This is one reason why Mercury represents healers. In particular, 
Mercury is the doctor who treats using food and medicine as he does not 
want to cut the skin. Surgery and acupuncture require the energy of Mars, 


% attesaragona aa: 


om vanijyanipunaya namah 


49. Skilled (Nipuna) in trade ( Vanijya). 


After two names pointing at medicine, we now are reminded of 
the importance of Mercury for business and money. This is not money 
derived by luck, it comes through his skillfulness. 


3 qaqiy 4a: 


om vasyaya namah 


50. Attractive (Vashya). 


Mercury, Budha 187 


In so many ways, Mercury can make a person and a soul 
attractive. What makes someone attractive? Every one of our cells is 
programmed to do two things. Move away from pain and move towards 
resources. This programming is in the cell walls. The larger the cell wall, 
the better it works but there is a physical limit te how large a cell can 
become. Some scientists believe that larger organisms are nature's way of 
making a larger surface area. Whatever the truth, we do move towards a 
source of energy that we seek whether it is in the form of money, food, 
power, fertility or spiritual upliftment. A strong Mercury can give you an 
abundance of one or more of these things and others move towards you 
asa result. 


3 ATA AA: 


om vatangaya namah 


51, Beautiful limbed. 


Vata normally means wind or the Ayurvedic dosha related to 
motion. Anga is limbs, so there is a sense of expressive or moving limbs. 
This hints at the association with the Vata dosha Jike the next name and 
Chapala below. Vata is constantly on the move, unstable, but quick witted. 
Vata also means desired or wished for, hence appearing attractive or 
beautiful. 


$0 TWN AA: 


om vatarogahrte namah 


S2. Taking away (Hrt) diseases (Roga) caused by Vata dosha. 


Ayurveda describes every disease in terms of Vata (wind), Pitta 
(heat) and Kapha (phlegm). While each disease has a predeminance of 
one, Vata is implicated in everything especially pain. Vata is the first to go 
out of balance so when it is balanced, health is good. 


30 CAN AA: 


om sthilaya namah 


53. Powerful. 


188 Yoga of the Planets 


Sthula can also mean big, bulky, corpulent or clumsy but clearly 
this name does not intend coarseness and the like, though it hints at 
Mercury's connection to corpulence. Mercury's signs, Gemini and Virgo, 
are implicated in hormonal problems, which can promote obesity. This 
and the next name (54), echo Mercury's lordship over the Earth element. 


5 eee 
$0 AMAT TH: 


om sthairyagunadhyaksaya namah 


54. Presiding (Adhyaksa) over the quality (Guna) of firmness. 


Sthula or Sthairya is difficult to move, it cannot be easily pushed 
around. Afflictions to Mercury can indicate damage to the physical 
structure such as broken bones. Someone with a clear intelligence is also 
difficult to manipulate with falsehood. 


Jo CSA SEUN AA: 


om sthilasiksmadikaranaya namah 


55. Causing (Kdrana) grossness, subtlety and the like. 


This points to an intellect that defines or judges. A refined 
intellect locates the fine (Sukshma) within the gross (Sthdla); it sees all 
qualities. Adi points at all kinds of qualities in the perceived world. The 
mind and senses register, the intellect recognizes and then defines or 
judges the qualities. 


do STR AA: 


om aprakasaya namah 


56. Self-illumined. 


The ability to judge correctly is not a product of the intellect 
alone, which is not self-illumined, but of the Self, perceiving through the 
intellect. While we can observe things, even subtle things, and judge or 
infer invisible things like the intellect, the Self is hidden. Another 
interpretation is that the intellect is ‘dark’. Prakasha is shining and ‘a’ can 
mean ‘not’. That is, the intellect has no light of its own, it depends on the 
Self. Therefore, we should not rely on purely intellectual ways of 


Mercury, Budha 189 


acquiring knowledge. This is why, as one gets more educated, one 
becomes more and more aware of one’s ignorance as one sees the extent 
of what one does not know. Only the Self is the seat of al! knowledge. 


do FRNA AA: 


om prakasatmane namah 


57. The light of the Self (Atman). 


This name clarifies the meaning of the last one (56). It is the Self 
that illumines all our organs of knowing. The intellect has been said to be 
"'thelamp at the door’ making it possible for consciousness to realize itself 
as the Self and cognise the world at the same time. 


Ho FA A: 
om ghanaya namah 


58. Profound, solid (Ghana). 


As lord of the earth element, Mercury rules over everything that 
has solidity. Solidity implies material substance but what is truly 
profound? Only infinity, as everything else is much smaller. That is the 
nature of the Self. It has no boundaries and exists everywhere. 


$0 TRAIN AA: 


om gaganabhtisanaya namah 


59. Decorating (Bhiisana) the heavens (Gagana) or adorned by it. 


The planet Mercury is an ornament of the sky. For the Self- 
realized the universe exists within the Self as an ornament. 


3 fae aa: 


om vidhistutyaya namah 


60. Praised (Stutya) by the wise, those whose intellect (Dhi) has attained 
pure discrimination (¥/). 


190 Yoga of the Planets 


It can also mean that he is praised by the Vedic rites and precepts 
(Vidhi). This name points to Mercury as representing Lord Vishnu, the 
Godhead. Another view is as a reference to the Vedantic texts that praise 
the knowledge of the Self. 


Jo FATA AH: 
om visalaksaya namah 


61. Large-eyed or one with a very broad vision (Vishala Aksa). 


This also means illustrious and noble as noble people are those 
who are broad minded, not blinkered. This is a name used for Lord Shiva. 
He is famous for having his third eye wide open. It is also a name for Shri 
Garuda, the king of the eagles and vehicle of Lord Vishnu. Eagles are also 
famous for their exceptional vision. The great astrologer Swami 
Achyutananda is said to be the incarnation of Shn Garuda (see the 
chapter The Journey). 


Swamiji was one of the principal disciples (five friends) of Shri 
Chaitanya Mahaprabhu, the great devotee of Shri Krishna who displayed 
his extraordinary grace about 500 years ago. Anyone he touched became 
thrilled with the nectar of devotion. He had a disciple who was a Muslim. 
For him, Chaitanya crafted the Hare Krishna mantra which was a reversal 
of the traditional Krishna mantra and which could be easily chanted by 
anyone. This mantra has become famous throughout the world, 


% fagstAAeN AA: 
om vidvajjanamanoharaya namah 


62. Enchanting (Menohara) the |earned people (Vidvat Jana) (with his 
brilliance and good qualities). 


Naturally, this extends to entertainers in general and reminds us 
that all kinds of public speakers are ultimately there to fascinate and 
entertain. If one looks at the Vedic charts of peuple who have risen to 
become national leaders, they all have a strong influence of Mercury. 
People have to want to listen to them. 


Mercury, Budha 191 


Wehr AA: 


om carusilaya namah 


63. Dear, agreeable, esteemed, beautiful, elegant (Chdru) - the very 
principle (Shila) of that. 


3 SAARI AA: 


om svaprakasaya namah 


64. Self-illumined (Sva Prakdsha). 


While Aprakasha (Mercury 56) could refer to the subordinate or 
ordinary state of the intellect, this clearly refers to the superior nature of 
the Intelligence of the Self. Swa (or Sva) means ‘self’. 


While we generally think that we are doing meditation and 
everything else in our lives, the wise know that the Cosmic intelligence is 
doing it. The first experience of this often comes in meditation when we 
stop trying and we find the whole thing going by itself. Initiation by a 
great master can often jump start this level of meditation. 


% AIA AA: 


om capalaya namah 


65. Unsteady (Chapala). 


We have seen how the Intelligence of the Self is rock steady but 
the intellect and the mind are constantly changing. Mercury can indicate 
both. We see Chapala in the financial and commodity markets, which 
Mercury rules, and everything the intellect manufactures other than the 
cognition of Truth. 


There is a state where both are self-evident: the silence and the 
fluctuations arising in it. The first has no location while the second is 
localized. It is strange but real. 


This name can also mean that which happens quickly or 
instantaneously, The Truth is always there but our recognition of it 
happens in a flash, as it were, even though that flash has no temporal or 
spatial location. This is why it is accessible from anywhere, anytime. In 
fact, prior to that flash, you can meditate on your own self-illumination 


192 Yoga of the Planets 


because it is already existing. How do you do that? It is not a doing, it’s a 
kind of imagination without imagining anything. I can only give you this 
clue. If that does not help, try to find a great soul who can open that door 
for you so it becomes obvious. If that is not possible, persist with your 
prayers or spiritual practice. [t is just a matter of time. Everything you 
need comes when the time is right. 


do Fardfezara aa: 


om jitendriyaya namah 


66. One who has conquered (Jita) the senses (Jndriya). 


For this, one has to have one’s attention on something that is 
steady. Otherwise, the senses follow the unsteadiness. 


H IGSfala AA: 


om udanmukhaya namah 


67. Facing (Mukha) North (Udan), 


This describes the orientation of the statue of Mercury in the 
shrine of the nine Grahas. It is said Lord Shiva sits facing South so we face 
North to honour Him. Mercury is associated with Lord Vishnu and Vishnu 
and Shiva are always honouring each other. Vishnu is the infinite 
expansion and Shiva is the infinite silence. There is no difference at all in 
truth. Shiva is facing South as the Guru in the form of Dakshinamurti. 
Those who face North are the ones sitting facing the teacher and thus the 
students (Shishya), indicated by Mercury. 


This also means facing upwards. Mercury is always looking for 
higher and higher truths, greater and greater prosperity. In the Bible, God 
says to man, ‘Be fruitful and multiply; fill the earth and subdue it.’ We live 
in an age where we have truly fulfilled that mandate. The Biosphere, 
which is ruled by Mercury, is being overwhelmed by our tendency to 
expand, which is also connected to Mercury. Some people do not want to 
discuss (Mercury) this at all. Most of us prefer not to discuss being 
fruitful. Others focus on the climate (Mercury). Some populations are 
declining but wherever there has been a surge of resources (Mercury) the 
population is expanding at a great pace and spreading out to other 
countries as the local resources become insufficient. Mercury ruled 


Mercury, Budha 193 


people would call this ‘interesting times’. If we listen more and insist less, 
then we will find a good way forward. 


3 AIG az: 


om makhasaktaya namah 


68. Whose sacrificial rites (Makha) are uninterrupted (Asakta). 


Asakta implies success through continuous focus undisturbed by 
any mental distractions. He is not concerned with the eventual outcome 
and is thus devoid of anxiety. Read as @sakta rather than asakta, it means 
fond of religious and other festivals. It can also mean naturally festive, 
cheerful and vigorous. Whatever the task, he is devoted to it. 


do FAMNIIAa AA: 
om magadhadhipataye namah 


69. King (Adhipa) of Magadha (Southern Bihar). 


As it happens, the Gautama Buddha is associated with this area of 
India. Buddha attained enlightenment in Bodhgaya, which is 
approximately in the centre of greater Bihar or in the South of the current 
state of Bihar. In any case, it was within the Magadha kingdom. In 
addition, this area was the centre of education in the ancient world. The 
Vikramashila and Nalanda universities received students from as far 
away as Greece and Korea along with Japan, China, Indonesia, Persia, 
Turkey, etc. Nalanda is the most famous and is located about 55 miles 
south east of Patna. It was a Buddhist center of learning from 427 CE to 
1197 CE. The Buddha himself stayed at Nalanda several times. The great 
Jain savant, Mahavir, also stayed in Nalanda on several occasions and 
attained Moksha (liberation) there. Both Buddha and Mahavir were born 
as royal princes. 


In its heyday, Nalanda had 10,000 students in residence and 
2,000 teachers. It had eight separate compounds and ten temples with 
lakes and parks. The library was a nine-storied building. There were 
many meditation halis and classrooms and many subjects were taught 
there including astronomy, astrology and medicine. It was sacked around 
1193 though it continued for some time afterwards in a small way. 


194 Yoga of the Planets 


On June 12, 2007, News Post India reported the funding by Japan 
of an international university in Nalanda in Bihar. The report goes on to 
say that ‘The proposed university will be fully residential, like the ancient 
seat of Jearning at Nalanda. In the first phase of the project, seven schools 
with 46 foreign faculty members and over 400 Indian academics would 
come up ... The university will impart courses in science, philosophy and 
spiritualism along with other subjects. A renowned international scholar 
will be its chancellor.” Nalanda University had its first academic session 
in September 2014. 


$0 &a AA: 


om haraye namah 


70. Yellow or greenish. These are the colours of Mercury. 


Hari is aname is applied to many gods and planets. It is primarily 
a name of Lord Vishnu and identifies Mercury with Him. It also means a 
ray of light, fire or the wind. It has many meanings including a parrot. 
This indicates the ability to learn and repeat teachings, a sign of a good 
intellect and clear mind. This colour is discussed under Sun 65. See also 
Sun 85, Mercury 87 and Jupiter 5S. 


$ GAA FA: 
om saumyavatsarasamjataya namah 


71. Born (Samjata) in the year Saumya. 


There is a cycle of 60 years (Vatsara) each with a name. This 
likely is based on the junction of the cycle of Jupiter, 12 years, and Saturn, 
about 30 years, as 60 is divisible by both. Naturally, Mercury is born in 
the year called Saumya, this being his nature and lineage (Mercury 3). 
According to the text /dtaka Parijdta, being born in Saumya makes one 
‘tranquil, universally popular, exceedingly wealthy and firm-minded.’ 


3 SAR Aa: 
om somapriyakaraya namah 


72. He creates (Kara) the dearness or tenderness (Priya) which arises 
through the flow of the nectar (Soma). 


Mercury, Budha 195 


Somapriya means beloved of Soma - the Moon. Budha is the son 
of the Moon through Tara (Mercury 13). Whatever the child's attitude, his 
parents love him. This name tells us that he is creating this affection by 
his own qualities. It also tells us that the refined intellect is facilitating the 
sweetness of life. 


Mercury helps our body be strong and healthy and keeps the 
hormonal system functioning well. He rules over the physical structure 
and provides medicines when needed. A healthy body supports a happy 
and tranquil mind. 


do Hed FA: 


om mahate namah 


73. The great one (Mahat). 


When Mercury is strong in a chart, the person gains respect for 
his or her intelligence and abilities. 


% fearktrecr aA: 
om-sirithadinrtidhaya namah 


74. Mounted (Adhirtidha) on a lion. 


Mercury's vehicle is a lion but Simha can also mean an eminent 
person. If you want to see great intelligence, you have to seek a great 
personality. This name elaborates on the last (Mercury 73). The person is 
not just ‘great’, they are elevated onto a throne or high position. Kings 
used to try to collect the most intelligent and talented people to decorate 
their court One of the reasons that the USA became so powerful is 
because many of the brightest people from all over the world emigrated 
there. 


Naturally, there is a deeper meaning. The awakened intellect also 
sits on a lion. At the junction of the intellect and the Pure Awareness, 
there is a roar as if Om is being continuously sounded. It is made of pure 
silence as the universe is made of space-time. This is the point from 
where the nature manifests everything so the Divine Mother Durga 
functions from here and so is said to be riding on a lion ora tiger. It is the 
place of the highest power. When the intelligence of the individual sits at 
this point it is said to be mounted on a lion. capable of anything. 


196 Yoga of the Planets 


$0 Wasi aA: 


om sarvajfiaya namah 


75, Knowing everything (Sarvajiia). 


This is the fruit of the highest humility. That state is the true 
hero. 


OOS cS 
40 RIMRAATY AR: 
om sikhivarnaya namah 
76, The colour (Varna) of a peacock (Shikhi) - beautiful and multi- 
coloured. 


Mercury represents variety, not just one colour but all the 
colours appear wonderful to the eye. The peacock displays his glory to 
attract his mate. Lord Krishna, who wore peacock feathers, dazzled the 
cowherd girls and the whole world. 


& Rida an: 
om Sivarhnkaraya namah 


77. Causing (Kara) auspiciousness (Shivanz) or fortunate occurrences. 


Giving happiness, prosperity and all kinds of good fortune. Also 
bliss and enlightenment. 


Tarawa aa: 
om-pitambaraya namah 


78. Yellow-clothed. 


Lord Vishnu is said to wear a yellow (Pita) cloth (Ambara). it 
alludes to the glorious effulgence of the Self. 


Mercury, Budha 197 


d Getaga an: 
om pitavapuse namah 


79. Having a yellow, or golden (Pita) form (Vapus). 


His form is tinged with the glow of the celestial due to his 
internal surrender to truth. This is another way of describing a fully 
relaxed heart and brings the point that the relaxing of the heart is an 
endless process. Its end is a space beyond any individuality and is thus 
infinite. Rationally, a process cannot end in the infinite, which is why it is 
endless. However, quantum mechanics has shown that matter can 
suddenly fall into a ground state with infinite properties. For example, a 
loop of wire can become superconducting. This is a state where an 
electric current will flow forever. EEG studies suggest that such a state 
may arise in advanced meditators as the brain waves synchronize across 
the brain. This normally coincides with a subjective experience of 
unboundedness. In that condition, the body may be seen to glow. 


Vapus is a wonder. That state is pure golden divinity. Pita also 
means imbibed. The divine consciousness has been absorbed like water 
we drink and permeates everything. 


H Ue AMsay Aa: 


om pitacchatradhvajankitaya namah 


80. Marked or indicated (Ankita) by the emblem (Dhvaja) of a yellow (Pita) 
umbrella (Chhatra). 


The umbrella indicates high status. The yellow colour suggests a 
trace of Rajas or a tendency to action. Yellow light can be formed from an 
equal mix of red and green light so it comes between them in the 
rainbow. Green is the natural color of Mercury and very much relates to 
the earthiness of Virgo and the tranquility of Saumya (Mercury 3, 4). Red 
is the colour af Rajas and relates to the trading and unsteadiness 
(Chapala) aspects of Mercury. One pervading the other suggests a worldly 
wisdom, wisdom that moves in the field of life and action. 


198 Yoga of the Planets 


3 GRTN Aa: 


om khangacarmadharaya namah 


81. Carrying (Dhara) a sword (Khaniga) and shield (Charma). 


One moving in the field of action has to cut and ward off attacks. 
The sword represents how knowledge cuts the root of ignorance, and the 
shield how it protects from all error. Knowledge could mean worldly 
learning in the sense that knowing how to drive a car makes one 
competent in the driver's seat. It can also mean the state that arises when 
the thread of illusion is cut and one goes beyond all fear. 


do HRMS AA: 
om karyakartre namah 


82. The doer or initiator (Kartr) of auspicious acts. 


Karya indicates Vedic rituals but suggests all works that nourish 
and uplift. More generally, Karya is all kinds of business or enterprise, 
duty and conduct. it can refer to legal matters so Mercury indicates 
lawyers. 


SO HAIGH AA: 
om kalusaharakaya namah 


83. Destroying (Hdraka) wickedness. Kalusha is idleness, darkness, 
cruelty and dirtiness. Mercury is busy, gentle and pure. 


$0 SEER AA: 


om atreyagotrajaya namah 


84. Born (fa) in the family (Gotra) of the Brahmarishi Atri, hence Atreya. 


Atri was a great Vedic seer. This is also a name of the Moon, the 
father of Mercury. They were both born into Atri’'s lineage. Atri suggests 
one who is fully present. This state arises when one is not thinking of 
past, present and future. We typically imagine that the past is known and 


Mercury, Budha 199 


the future unknown. However, most of us remember little of the past and 
many have some intimations of the future. 


The ability to know all that was, is and will be is explained in the 
Siddhis chapter of the Yoga Sutras (3.16). By fully allowing the heart to 
relax so that the past, present and future are no longer mentally mixed, 
one comes to see all of them clearly. How far one can see depends on the 
degree of completeness of the relaxation. 


do Alea AA: 


om atyantavinayaya namah 


85. Extremely polite (Atyanta Vinaya). Having the highest sense of 
decorum, courtesy, sense of propriety, good manners, reverence, modesty 
and humility. 


It is impossible to be polite if one has a strong sense of one’s 
difference from others, either due to an inflated or deflated ego. Both are 
products of ignorance. Knowing one’s self to be the Self of all makes one 
perfectly polite. Of course, one might still behave in any way according to 
the circumstances but it is naturally appropriate. 


do fasaqraara aa: 


om visvapavanaya namah 


86. Purifying (Padvana) everything (Vishva). 


Having purified oneself, one’s movement purifies everything else. 
That Pure Intelligence purifies everything. The central Nakshatra of Virgo 
is Hasta (the hand). This indicates those who use their hands for healing 
or who give good guidance. It is ruled by Savitr who is praised in the 
greatest of mantras, the Gayatri. In this mantra, He is asked to purify our 
intelligence. Mercury is exalted at 15 degrees of Virgo in Hasta. 


oo RGA AA: 


om campeyapuspasamkasaya namah 


87. Shining (Samkdsha) with Champeya flowers (Puspa). 


200 Yoga of the Planets 


These greenish-yellow flowers are often used in offerings in the 
temples in India and are very pretty. They are the best offering in Budha’s 
Pija. The Champeya flower is the flower of the Rose-apple tree. As befits 
Mercury, the fruit has numerous important healing qualities. By making 
this flower part of the Pija, the sages ensured the trees would be grown 
and tended benefiting the health of the people, 


$0 ATTA A: 


om caranaya namah 


88. A bard. 


Chdrana is an entertainer like an actor, dancer, bard or mimic. 
Typically, one that wanders (Charana) from place to place entertaining 
the people, as most entertainers have to do even today. It also refers to 
the celestial singers as well as wanderers in general especially pilgrims. It 


can indicate one who reads the scriptures, perhaps out loud to others and 
also a spy. 


30 VTRASN AA: 


om carubhiisanaya namah 


89. Beautifully decorated (Bhusana). 


Charu can mean saffron as well as lovely and pleasing. Saints 
often wear saffron. Having a delightful well-groomed appearance is a 
clear sign of Mercury dominating in the chart. 


%o Mata AA: 


om vitaragaya namah 


90. Free (Vita) from greediness (Raga). 


Mercury people also have to avoid greed, as it is a potential 
Achilles heel. For example, Mercury makes scientists. They are expected 
to advance human knowledge by producing objective results. However, 
their output can affect the bottom line of corporations so there are offers 
made to them that are not always in the public interest. On the other 
hand, scientists have to struggle hard to get research grants. This 


Mercury, Budha 201 


situation has led to a lot of unreliable results as has recently been 
exposed in the field of medicine. 


Mercury also rules business people. They also need to be honest. 
| just read about a factory that smelted lead and had pollution control 
equipment because of the law. However, it cost money to use it so they 
operated the factory all night without the filter to make more money. 700 
people in the vicinity were sickened so the owners were arrested. Some 
people think making more money by cheating or endangering others is 
clever but that is only because their intelligence is corrupted. This kind of 
behaviour, which is only too common, is doing great damage to our 
world. 


The only kind of intelligence that has absolutely no defects is 
Pure Intelligence that comes from complete simplicity of awareness. 
Humility and intelligence are two sides of the same coin. However, 
whatever state we are in currently we can do our best to be honest and 
kind and at the same time maintain a regular spiritual practice. This is 
also a name of Mars (Mars 36). 


do dteprara aa: 


om vitabhayaya namah 


91. Free (Vita) from fear (Bhaya). 


Fear is inherently false. We just have to know that deeply. A good 
leader knows when to retreat and does so calmly. Fear leads to panic and 
panic leads to destruction. Being free from fear is a great blessing. One 
may think that the accumulation of resources will remove one’s anxiety, 
but this does not prove true. The more we have, the more we have to do 
to protect it. Fearlessness is a state of consciousness, independent of 
anything external. This mantra is one way to cultivate that. 


= ian 
So PRYSHAAT AA: 
om viSuddhakanakaprabhaya namah 
92. Shining (Prabha) like purified gold (Vishuddha Kanaka). 


This indicates a completely relaxed heart that has no issue with 
or judgment ofanything. It simply shines. 


202 Yoga of the Planets 


go Faq aa: 


om bandhupriyaya namah 


93. Fond (Priva) of his relatives and friends. 


Bandhu are those to which one is bound. This is often a blessing 
but sometimes we strain against our boundaries. We feel limited by our 
family and anything that appears to bind us, but a pure heart simply loves 
giving in to any kind of boundary because its status is untouched by it. It 
simply expands even more to accommodate the apparent restriction. This 
is how we can love anyone however difficult they appear to be. 


$ TATGHA Aa: 

om bandhuyuktaya namah 

94. Enjoying the close ties (Yukta) with the family, spouse, parents and all 
kinds of kinsmen and colleagues (Bandhu). 


Mercury people tend to be family people. Again, we see why 
Mercury represents friends and relatives like uncles and aunts 
astrologically and why business flourishes through team work. 


So TAqATeoasara AA: 


om banamandalasamsritaya namah 


95. Stationed (Samshrita) on the diagram (Mandala) of an arrow (Bana). 


Each Graha has a diagram, which is used in the Puja. An arrow 
points the direction and reaches the goal jike a good intellect. 
Banamandala literally means a circle of arrows like the tendency to 
acquire all kinds of learning or a circle of light illuminating in all 
directions. 


to FERUAAAAA Aa: 


om arkesananivasasthaya namah 


96. Stationed (Nivdsastha) to the North East of the Sun (Arka), 


Mercury, Budha 203 


This tells us where to put the statue of Budha for Pija. The North 
East is the direction of /shana or God. This points to the divine nature of 
Budha and his association with Lord Vishnu. In Vastu, Vedic architecture, 
the sacred space is in the North East corner of our home or room. It is 
advised to keep that area free of heavy furniture and clutter. If possible. 
this should also apply to our property (land) as a whole. 


fo TEATSHSANETY Aa: 


om tarkasastravisaradaya namah 


97. Fully expert (Vish@rada) in the subject (Shastra) of logic (Tarka) and 
all the related texts. 


Tarka means logic, reasoning and philosophical speculation. A 
strong Mercury can make one brilliant in these intellectual areas. 


% Walaa AA: 


om prasantaya namah 


98. Completely at peace (Prashdanta}. 


As this follows Mercury 97, it shows that peace is the fruit of 
expertise in logic. Logic must provide a path to the ultimate truth. 
Reasoning, when fully developed, makes one truly honest as one cannot 
help but see through every one of one’s own self-deceptions. A 
mathematician who follows the rules of logic produces a proof that must 
be true. That result then becomes an established fact and allows others to 
build on it. If we are fully logical about our life we know that there is 
nothing that we really need to be at peace. This realization, leaves us in a 
state of peace. 


do ocala aa: 
om pritisarnyuktaya namah 


99. Utterly delighted (Priti). 


This is the inevitable result of being Prashanta (Mercury 98), 
Being fully attached (Samyukta) to pleasure is another lower level 


204 Yoga of the Planets 


interpretation of the name. Priti can go as far as addiction but is more 
about love, fondness and ultimately pure delight. 


go Pragad aH: 


om priyakrte namah 


100. Causing (Krt) fondness (Priya). 
A delighted heart loves all and is widely popular. 


Jo PPR AH: 


om priyabhiisanaya namah 


101. Fond of (Priya) ornaments, having delightful ornaments or decorated 
(Bhiisana) by one’s dearness. 


A person dominated by a strong Mercury can be very delightful. 


do Taree AH: 
om medhavine namah 


102. In bliss. Having the mead of pure joy (Medhdavin). 


An unafflicted Mercury brings happiness to those areas of the 
chart it rules just as Pure Intelligence causes the flow of Soma. This name 
also means a learned or clever person, one with the capability of being a 
teacher. Generally, people of high intelligence are expected to teach in 
some capacity. The word Medhd implies a kind of intoxication that comes 
froma profound intelligence rejoicing in its cognitions of reality. 


Truly intelligent people should not be depressed. That would 
come from some shadow over the light of intelligence. With some work, 
that shadow will surely be overcome. It is not right to think that one is 
not intelligent. A diamond can be caked in a lot of mud but if we polish it, 
eventually it will start to shine and, if we persist, will truly sparkle. In 
India, they say take up some name of God and just keep repeating it until 
one finds a holy soul to give you further guidance. [ believe the advice is 
the same in all the religions even if the prayers are varied. The carly 
Christian church had a wonderful prayer, ‘Deus honorum omnium’, God 


Mercury, Budha 205 


honours all. It is understood that it was taught by St Peter to be given to 
clergy on their ordination?". 


So TIAA AA: 


om madhavasaktaya namah 


103. Endlessly blissful. 


Madhava is joy and Asakta is an uninterrupted condition. This is 
one meaning based on asakta but it could also be read as dsakta, devoted 
or attached. 


Madhava is the one born of the Madhu or divine nectar. It 
indicates a state of pure unbounded bliss. When that is touched, the 
intellect becomes asakta or devoted to that. By virtue of that, the state 
becomes continuous. It can never turn back and get lost in the worldly 
differences even though it may observe them now with much greater 
clarity. 


Madhava is a name of Lord Krishna. Here is a clue to how 
Mercury represents Lord Vishnu and thus Lord Rama and Lord Krishna in 
the birth chart. Mercury represents them by being their devotee. It’s 
presence in the fifth house or associated to the fifth house, for instance, 
gives us that devotional inclination. By meditating on Madhava, with time 
we can reach the blissful state. 


% gars 7a: 


om mithunadhipataye namah 


104. The ruler (Adhipati) of Gemini (Mithuna) Rashi. 


Mithuna means a pair or pairing. It is indicative of dual things 
and has conjugal energy. Mithuna people put their energy into Dharma or 
what they see is beneficial for the world. The intellect is all about analysis 
and duality. It flourishes in Gemini. Any planet in Gemini tends to 
increase intellectual capability. Gemini people tend to be interested in 
many things, they are always learning. They also tend to do many things 
at once. One side effect is a difficulty in making decisions. It is too easy to 
see the virtue in all the choices. 


11 The Catholic Encyclopedia. 


206 Yoga of the Planets 


$o afaa aa: 


om sudhiye namah 


105. Pious, clever, wise, sensible, religious (Sudhi). A learned person or 
teacher. 


This is how Mercury should be in Gemini. They help others 
understand and develop during and after going through their own 
process. The first Nakshatra in Gemini is Mrgashirsa, which is soft and 
constantly seeking. The next, Ardra, is cleansing and the last is Punarvasu 
where divinity is more readily realized. Thus Gemini encapsulates the 
process of evolution to higher consciousness. 


$ FINI AH: 
om kanyarasipriyaya namah 


106, Fond of (Priya) Virgo (Kanya Rashi). 


He is the lord of Gemini but fond of Virgo. Thus Virgo becomes 
the place where Mercury is happiest. Technically, in Jyotisha, it is both his 
own sign, his MilaTrikona and his exalted place. MilaTrikona is a place 
that is between own and exalted in the strength of placement. It is like the 
office. It is our place but is quite different from our home. At home, we 
relax. In the office we are busy with what we have to do. 


Being an earth sign, Virgo is best in helping Mercury to express 
his stability and rulership over the earth element. Gemini is excellent for 
intellectual pursuits. Amongst the Ascendants of the American Presidents 
for which we have reliable birth date and time, two have Gemini and 
seven have Virgo rising. In fact, Virgo is the most common rising sign the 
next being Aries found in four Presidents!*. 


do ANE AA: 


om kamapradaya namah 


107. Giving (Prada) pleasure. 


12 American Presidents and British Monarchs, a Comparative Research Study. 
Steve Hubball. Gochara, 6 (2), pp32-42, 2004. 


Mercury, Budha 207 


Kama is conjugal pleasure and pleasures of the senses in general. 
Mithuna (Gemini) means a couple and is related to bedrooms and 
playgrounds while Virgo represents, among other places, those suitable 
for intercourse and gardens. 


Mars, the promoter of celibacy, naturally sees Mercury as an 
enemy being one who enjoys and promotes conjugal relations. Mercury is 
only indifferent towards Mars ashe does not mind what Mars does. 


In the planetary court, Mercury represents princes and Mars, 
generals. Princes are notorious for their affairs and the king's general 
naturally frowns on this as he knows that the defence of the kingdom 
needs discipline. He is also aware that when the prince becomes the king, 
he may be fired. Being the senior, the prince has no reason to trouble 
himself with enmity towards the general. 


SH FARAIAGA AA: 
om dhanaphalasrayaya namah 


108. Supported by the fruit of wealth (Dhanaphala). 


This can mean that one is dependent on the fruits of wealth or 
one who is very attached to such things. Dhana is what one prizes and if 
one achieves that prize then one enjoys its fruit (Phala). As the 
significator of wealth, Mercury is especially strong in Taurus, the natural 
Dhana Bhava. In this mantra, there is a hint of the joy of those who take 
refuge (Ashraya) in the love of God, especially Lord Krishna. Lord Krishna 
has his Ascendant and Moon in Taurus. This name indicates that a clear 
intelligence is founded on a natural abundance. May divine Budha bless 
you with that natural abundance and clarity of intelligence. 


Paqud 


Om tat sat 


208 Yoga of the Planets 


ml 


yee 


‘~ 


Jupiter, Brhaspati 


Jupiter, Brhaspati 209 


JUPIFER, BRHASPATIT OR GURU 


Ho TR AA: 
om gurave namah 


1. Salutations to Guru — the remover of darkness. 


Gu is darkness and Ru is removing it. The one who shows us what 
is real and to whom we surrender by accepting what we see is the Guru. 
He is our own Self. That is why it is said that Lord Shiva is the Guru. Shiva 
is the field of Pure Being, our own undivided consciousness. We touch 
that through our own knowing. That is why knowing has no doubt. When 
we think or feel something, we can convince ourselves that itis true but 
some level of doubt always remains, When we know something, there is 
no doubt. 


Arthur Eddington, the great physicist, undertook a trip to 
Principe, an island off West Africa, to verify Einstein's theory of General 
Relativity by photographing the stars during a total eclipse. Einstein had 
predicted that their light would bend around the Sun effectively 
displacing them from where they normally appear. The effect was 
observed. When a journalist asked Einstein what he would say if 
Eddington failed to observe the effect, he replied, “I would feel sorry for 
the Good Lord, the theory is correct.” 


That is how we know something, There is no doubt and there is 
sweetness in it. This is the nature of Shiva consciousness. !t is described 
as Sat, Chit, Ananda. Sat is uncomplicated, pure, and thus free of doubt; 
Chit is intelligence, which gives it the capacity to know; Ananda is bliss, it 
is nectar. 


$o FOTRUTS FH: 


om gunakaraya namah 


2. The author or origin (Akara) of all good qualities (Gund). Abounding in 
them. 


210 Yoga of the Planets 


In a Vedic birth chart, Jupiter brings good qualities wherever it 
goes. If Jupiter is rising at the time of birth, the person is trusted by others 
and approached for advice. If Jupiter is strong in a chart, people tend to 
trust the person wherever it is placed. However, if it is not associated 
with the Ascendant, which represents the person, or second house of 
speech, the person can even be a con artist if other factors support this. I 
have met several but they keep on getting away with it because of the 
illusion of trustworthiness. !f Jupiter is placed in the third house with a 
sign of Venus rising, then especial care is needed to honour and respect 
truth and the wise teachers. 


do 7 Aa: 
om goptre namah 


3. Goptr is the guardian, one who protects and preserves. 


Goptr also conveys a sense of hiding and concealing, which 
reveals an interesting aspect of the Jupiter energy. Jupiter relates to the 
establishment as well as to teachers, both of which exhibit a certain 
secrecy. Information is only given to those who need it or who are on the 
level to receive it. For instance, in the US government the database 
security system prevents the passage of information to anyone lower on 
the rungs. It’s the same thing with the Guru, who has all the knowledge, 
but she or he only gives it when the student is ready or considered fit. 


We see this in the Brihat Parasara Hora Shastra, the greatest text 
of Jyotisha, and other texts where the Guru is teaching the disciple. In 
these, many verses start with “O Brahmin!” This is a way of saying: 
“You're fit to receive this knowledge, because you are quiet, gentle and 
not overcome with greed.” 


A Brahmin or Brahmana means literally one who is a knower ot 
Brahman. Adi Shankaracharya was one of the greatest Brahmins in 
history, but even he was tested. One day he was walking down the street 
in Varanasi (Benares), when a frightful looking person appeared in front 
of him with four dogs. He was a Chandala, a downtrodden caste, said to 
eat dogs. Shankaracharya commanded the man: “Out of my way.” The 
Chandala asked him what he was ordering to get out of his way. "Are you 
referring to the body,” he said, “which is anyway of itself inanimate and 
therefore cannot be inferior to yours, or are you referring to the soul, 
which being beyond caste cannot be lower than yours either.” 
Shankaracharya was shocked and saluted the man for his profound 


Jupiter, Brhaspati 211 


knowledge. Then the Chandala turned into the form of Lord Shiva with 
the four Vedas. 


This is the principle of Jupiter. What it gives is for the greater 
good. This is important in Jyotisha, which is not to say that the practice 
should not sustain the practitioner. Rather the point is that the practice 
will always sustain the practitioner if one’s attitude is one of service. If we 
think we need to get something, or deserve to get something, then we are 
not yet ready for this knowledge. Equally those who take from a Jyotishi 
(Vedic Astrologer) without giving something of value in return, will get 
no real benefit from the advice. 


Those trained in the Kerala style of astrology will look at the gift 
given to see the answer to the question. That is why it is said that one 
should never approach an astrologer empty handed. If you see an 
astrologer in person, think of what you can take to him apart from the 
money to be given. The best is something that will create a delighted 
mood even if it is something simple. Good people are delighted by the 
genuineness of the offering, not the cost. This activates the great benefic 
Jupiter. 


do THAT AA: 


om gocaraya namah 


4. Whose transit is of great import. 


Gochara means the transits of the planets and the results thereof, 
The prefix ‘Go’ indicates something auspicious as well as indicating cows 
and planets. The word Gochara literally means ‘cows moving.’ The 
planets are actually like cows, because they are giving their results all the 
time. A cow only gives and all that she gives is of value. This is why cows 
are considered sacred. Her milk is nutritious and the urine is medicinal. 
The dung can be used for manure, for making an antiseptic floor or 
cooking the food. The dung is also used to make the ashes for the 
forehead, and most incense is manufactured from cow dung. For this, 
they say you should catch it before it hits the ground. 


Panchagavya are the five blessings from the cow. The milk 
becomes curds and ghee, and the other two are the urine and the dung. In 
Ayurveda, the texts sometimes advise (where directed by a doctor) taking 
a concoction of the Panchagavya. That is milk, curds, ghee and some of 
the urine and dung. This may remind us of our response to the planets - 


212 Yoga of the Planets 


we like the milk but we do not want the dung! However, everything has 
its purpose. 


We could also interpret this name as Jupiter being like a cow 
moving. It's the mother cow moving around, and wherever it goes, it is 
giving. Jupiter is exalted in Cancer, the sign of the mother. 


Cows are born only to give. Certainly Jupiter is like this. That is 
why he is considered by some to reduce the strength of the place where 
he sits. Even though he is a great benefic, he tends to generously 
distribute whatever he has without much regard for the availability. The 
places in a birth chart where his glance or aspect falls are the prime 
beneficiaries. That is why it appears that the aspect is more fortunate 
than the placement. Wherever his glance falls we are saved from disaster. 
Even if that area is fatally weak, we do not die. That is also why it was 
said above that he is the guardian. 


Although all planets move in transit around the zodiac, this name 
appears only among the names of Jupiter, Saturn and Rahu, suggesting 
one should pay particular attention to these Grahas in transit over the 
natal houses. Moreover, this name is listed as one of the first of the 108 
names of Jupiter, indicating that Jupiter's movement across the zodiac 
exerts an especially powerful influence. 


Some significant calendric parameters come from the movement 
of Jupiter. The length of our year is the length of time Jupiter spends in 
one sign (approximately). There's an important cycle of 60 years, whichis 
based on the movement of Jupiter. The 60-year cycle is five Jupiter 
rotations of twelve years each, and it’s also two Saturn rotations, which 
each take about thirty years. 


In India, the famous Kumbha Mela festival is held when Jupiter 
moves into Aquarius, or Kumbha Rashi and the other three fixed signs, 
Taurus, Leo and Scorpio. The Scorpio transit is given less importance and 
is the occasion of an Ardha or half Kumbha Mela at Prayag where the 
Yamuna and Ganges rivers meet. It is held in four different centres in the 
course of a twelve year cycle. The exact calendar of the Mela is decided by 
the ascetics based on the transits of the planets. This emphasizes the 
angular positions of Jupiter from Aquarius, which are the four fixed signs. 
When Jupiter isin a fixed sign, its effects are very stable. 


The connection of Jupiter and Saturn to this cycle is not arbitrary, 
but rather reflects the fact that astronomically Jupiter and Saturn behave 
like a single system. Each planet moves around the Sun at a certain angle 
to the ecliptic plane, the path of the Sun as seen from the Earth. This angle 
for each of Jupiter and Saturn beats, i.e. separates and joins, in a regular 
way, with a beat or oscillation frequency of 54,000 years. The two points 


Jupiter, Brhaspati 213 


of closest approach to the Sun (the Perihelion) also cross every 54,000 
years. This number, therefore, is the key vibration frequency in the solar 
system. In fact, after scanning over 4 million years, this is the only 
important long-term frequency that has been found. 


This number 54,000 is very intriguing as eight times that number 
equals 432,000, which is the number of years in Kali Yuga, the Vedic dark 
age which we are said to be in now. Eight is an important Vedic number. 
This gives us the clue that Kali Yuga should be divided into eight sub- 
periods, perhaps ruled by the seven planets and Rahu. Ketu can be 
omitted as it indicates liberation and these cycles describe materialism. 


go TiOfarara aA: 


om gopatipriyaya namah 


5. Beloved (Priya) of Lord Krishna (Gopati). Devoted to Him. 


Who is most dear and devoted to Lord Krishna? Lord Shiva. So 
Jupiter represents him. Lord Shiva is the original and supreme Guru. 


This could also mean a friend of the Sun’s because he could be 
said to be the leader (Pati) amongst the ‘cows’ or planets (Go). Jupiter as 
the minister or Guru of the king, as represented by the Sun, is the closest 
and most trusted one. The Sun and the Moon (as the queen) feel 
especially strong when associated with Jupiter. Without that there is the 
feeling of being without a trusted guide and so there can be fear. That is 
why, when the Sun and/or the Moon of one person is aspected or seen by 
the Jupiter of another, then there is a great sense of support. This is very 
helpful in relationship. If it operates in one direction, only one partner 
feels like that. If it goes both ways then the relationship tends to be stable 
over along time even if difficulties and disagreements arise. 


$0 Tt a: 
om gunine namah 


6. Endowed with good qualities (Gunin). 


When well placed Jupiter gives exceptional qualities (Guna). 
Primarily, this refers to qualities of character. He is honest, generous, 
broad-minded and learned. One could make a much longer list. 


214 Yoga of the Planets 


i oN 
% ddl ASIA 4H: 
om gunavatam sresthaya namah 


7. The best of those endowed with good qualities. 


This name is related to the previous one (Jupiter 6). Gunavatam 
means all the people who have the good qualities. Shrestha means he is 
the best of all of them. If Jupiter is in the Lagna (Ascendant or rising sign), 
it is the best situation. It’s said that if Budha (Mercury) is in the Lagna at 
the time of a birth, a query or the beginning of anything (Muhurta), it 
removes a hundred defects from the chart. If Shukra (Venus) is in the 
Lagna it removes a thousand defects. But if Guru (Jupiter) is there it 
removes all the defects. This is an exaggeration to make a point that is in 
many ways true. 


So how should we think of a debilitated Jupiter? The point of 
Jupiter’s maximum debilitation is in Capricorn, a sign that is concerned 
with Mana, its status or position. This would be like a teacher or Guru 
who thinks he or she is something special and lacks the humility of pure 
knowledge as exemplified by Jupiter in exaltation in Cancer. What 
appears as ego may well be arising from a fear of being deficient, which 
can come with the debilitation. Another manifestation is a strong interest 
in ritual while Jupiter in Cancer is more philosophical. 


Many great people have debilitated Jupiter, it helps with the 
practical application of Jupiter's tendencies, such as in ritualistic religion. 
Lord Krishna’s Jupiter was debilitated in the Navamsha chart, the chart 
constructed from the nine-fold division of each sign, which is indicative of 
Dharma or sustenance. This was the marker that he came to start the era 
of Capricorn, Kali Yuga. Each Avatara that starts a Yuga has such a 
marker. There are technical reasons why this placement was very 
favourable for him so if one’s Jupiter is debilitated one should not be 
concerned. If one secretly fears that one's knowledge is inadequate, one 
should relax the heart. The knowledge that one needs will surely come 
when one is ready for it. 


de TRENT Ae TH: 


om guriinath gurave namah 


8. The teacher of teachers (Guru). 


Lord Shiva is the highest Guru of the Gurus. He is the fount of all 
lineages of knowledge. 


Jupiter, Brhaspati 215 


Anyone who teaches us anything is a Guru even though we may 
associate the term with spiritual teachers. In the course of our life, we get 
many different teachers. The position of Jupiter gives a clue to the sort of 
teacher we get and the relationship we have with them. If Jupiter is 
strong, for example exalted in Cancer, we may have a better chance of 
getting a truly enlightened teacher. If Jupiter is in the eighth house of 
vulnerability, we may be wary of teachers and even have some fallout 
with them. We may feel they fall short of the high principles that we are 
expecting. A strong Jupiter in the ninth house, the house of the Guru and 
the father, will often indicate that we readily spend time with teachers 
and respect them as well as seeing our own father in that light. 


We can see the whole story around the Guru in detail from 
looking at Jupiter's placement and aspects in the chart. If Jupiter aspects 
the Lagna (Ascendant), the relationship with the Guru is directly at the 
body level, meaning the person could meet a Guru, live in the Guru’s 
establishment and have a personal connection. If Jupiter aspects the 
Moon, then the relationship is more mental, and the person may follow 
the Guru's or the mentor’s teaching or direction, but is less likely to live 
with the Guru. Jupiter aspecting the Lagna lord creates a more proactive 
relationship than an aspect on the Lagna, as the latter is primarily about 
the physical existence. The Lagna lord on the other hand can cast its own 
aspects, and has more of an active influence. Hence, if Jupiter aspects the 
Lagna lord, there is a deep connection between the Guru and the life. 


If jupiter aspects the lord of your current planetary cycle 
(Dasha), then you have more chance of good guidance; the Guru is 
looking at you. The Guru may be male or female and this will show in the 
chart. A Jupiter to Sun aspect is on the soul level. Although it may not 
involve much contact, the connection is truly deep and goes straight to 
the heart. This is a wonderful combination. Jupiter's gift of the Guru is 
important, because although Jupiter gives all manner of different things, 
itis rare to be in the presence of a fully realized soul and the effect on the 
life is undeniable. 


a AZT FH: 


om avyayaya namah 


9. Imperishable. Not diminishing (Avyaya). 


Whatever Jupiter is indicating lasts long. Everything of the 
relative world passes away so this name points to the higher indications 
of Jupiter. It stands for what does not die, which is only truth. Pure 


216 Yoga of the Planets 


knowledge or the highest knowing has no dependency on the body or the 
world. It isunchanging and thus never diminishes. 


Vyaya is the name used for the twelfth house, and it means 
losses. Prefixing ‘A’ means there is no loss. Whatever Jupiter offers us in 
the chart has a good chance of survival. For example, Jupiter is the key 
planet which shows if a relationship is going to last. It is Jupiter that 
keeps everything going long-term. Everything else pulls and pushes, but 
Jupiter sustains as long as we respect his moral and ethical standards. 
Teachers are human beings so they have their own standards. Jupiter as 
an archetype stands for the purity of the heart. Every person knows in 
their heart what is right and feels some degree of pinch when doing 
something wrong. Frequently we ignore the subtle promptings because 
the mind produces 101 reasons why the selfish act is in our best interest. 
Jupiter does not care about our selfishness, but he cares about the dirt 
that builds in the heart with each violation of the inner knowing. 


A classic case was Bernie Madoff who ran a famous Ponzi 
scheme. He has said that he knew what he was doing was wrong but felt 
he could not get out of it. As soon as his Jupiter major cycle started, he 
realized he had to give it up and after a short time he did. Jupiter Dasha 
has seen much punishment for him from an external perspective but we 
would have to ask him to find out what he feels in his heart. The ancients 
believed that it was far better to pay your debts promptly, rather than 
trying to postpone the day of judgment. After all, we do not know the rate 
of interest charged by the Cosmic Management System. What we do know 
is that living with dirt in the heart is painful. 


Sa aa: 


om jetre namah 


10. Victorious (/etri). 


Taken with the last name, we can see that this is not about 
winning some ordinary battle. Jupiter represents the victory over the 
addiction to the rise and fall of relative things. He can give a steadiness 
that comes from asettled awareness unconcerned with whether the body 
lives or dies. He is only devoted to what he knows to be imperishable. 
This identification makes him imperishable and thus ever victorious. 


This is not about some attitude or strategy for life. It is not about 
passivity. The settled awareness, the quiet heart, is within any level of 
bodily activity. From astrology we see that activity or inertia are a 
function of the tendencies arising at any time. More Sattva (purity) makes 


Jupiter, Brhaspati 217 


one's psyche calm, more Rajas (passion, activity) makes one very active in 
many ways, more Tamas (inertia) leads to dullness. It just happens that 
these tendencies arise and the astrology shows us when they do. The 
heart can be quiet in the midst of all of these. 


The influence of Sattva, Rajas and Tamas is seen from the chart. 
Jupiter is of the nature of Sattva along with the Sun and the Moon. The 
signs they rule, Cancer, Leo, Sagittarius and Pisces, also have this quality. 
The other planets and their signs contribute Rajas and Tamas. During a 
planetary cycle, we are influenced by planets ruling the cycle and the 
signs they occupy. If an astrologer is subject to an influence of Rajas or 
Tamas, this will affect his or her mind. | had a friend in India who was a 
brilliant astrologer but the strong Tamas of the cycle he was in led to 
rather negative interpretations. He wisely stopped doing readings. 


However, we are not only the mind. What one knows is still true 
and one can see how it is compromised as it moves through the mind and 
seeing that one can still remain with the uncompromised. Perhaps one 
has to recognize and be honest with oneself about the distortion that 
those influences bring into the mind. This takes one deeper into what is 
untainted. If one can live truth in the midst of Rajas and Tamas, one is far 
more grounded in it than when the mind is predominately influenced by 
Sattva. 


Jupiter is the heavyweight planet, the largest in our solar system 
containing more matter than all the other planets and moons together. It 
is so big that it is radiating heat from its continuing contraction. Had it 
been 80 times bigger, it would have become astar. 


30 Aes AA: 
om jayantaya namah 


11. Victorious. 


This is the fruit of being the conqueror. Jayanta is also used for 
Krishna Janmashtami, which is the 8th day of the waning Moon of the 
month of Shravana, Lord Krishna's birthday with Rohini Nakshatra rising 
at midnight. It generally falls in August. 


This tells us that purity of heart is a winning strategy. Deceit will 
fail even if there is some apparent short-term gain. 


218 Yoga of the Planets 


4 FaeTa Aa: 


om jayadaya namah 


12. The giver (Da) of victory (Jaya). 


Truth never misses. Everything else fails eventually. The last 
name (Jupiter 11) was ‘victorious’, and now we have jayadaya, the one 
who gives victory. In the great epic, the Mahabhé@rata, the two top 
warriors of the warring sides had studied with Guru Drona. One was 
Arjuna and the other Ashwatthaman, Drona’s son. Due to past 
circumstances, Drona and his son were on the side of the evil king 
Duryodhana. Before the battle, Arjuna came to the Guru following his 
brother, the king Yudhishthira. Drona blessed them with victory and 
explained the manner of bis death. He uttered the famous line, “yato 
dharmastatah krsno yatah krsnastato jayah", “Where there is 
righteousness, there is Krishna. Where there is Krishna, victory is 
certain.”!3 


Drona knew that blessing Arjuna meant that he himself must die 
as that was the only way Arjuna could win. Drona was the greatest archer 
and could not be beaten (see Mars 26 for what happened). This shows the 
magnanimity of a true Guru who ensures the victory of righteousness, 
even at the cost of his own life. 


do Stara aA: 


om jivaya namah 


13. The life principle, the vital breath, the individual soul. 


Jiva is also what one lives by, one’s livelihood or profession, It is a 
name of Pushya Nakshatra whose Vedic ruler is Brhaspati. Pushya is in 
Cancer. Lord Shiva made Brhaspati the planet Jupiter as a reward for his 
devotion. Jupiter is deeply associated with Pushya even though its 
planetary ruler is Saturn. It is said that the Gurus of mankind are residing 
in the constellation of the Great Bear as the Big Dipper, called in Sanskrit 
the Sapta (seven) Rishis (sages). This is considered to be in Pushya 
though quite far north of the zodiac. Here, Jupiter becomes exalted and is 
thus at its most beneficial and profound. 


13 Mahabharata. Bhishma Parva, 43v60. This line was first spoken by Rishi 
VedaVyasa (see Shalva Parva, 62v32). 


Jupiter, Brhaspati 219 


There is a conundrum here because the first six degrees of 
Cancer are said to be Mrta or ‘dead’ and Jupiter is at its peak during the 
first five degrees especially the fifth. I see this in the context of the birth 
chart of Lord Rama, the great avatar, ideal man and the hero of The 
Ramayana epic (one of the great epics of mankind along with The 
Mahabharata, the story around the life of Lord Krishna). 


The chart used for Rama is based on the description in the text. It 
reflects his greatness and fits the story well. Jupiter is exalted in Cancer 
with the Moon in the first house. The first house represents the person 
and any planets in it (those rising at the time of birth) are influential in 
the person’s character. For Cancer rising, Jupiter rules over the sixth and 
the ninth houses. The sixth indicates one’s enemies while the ninth is the 
father (among other things). Rama was born to destroy the great demon 
Ravana who was harassing everyone. Ravana was the son of a great Rishi 
by a demoness. He was exceptionally wise but could not live by truth due 
to his demonic tendencies. 


In Rama’s chart there is Rahu in Sagittarius in the sixth house of 
enemies indicating a demon and ruled by the exalted Jupiter indicating 
Ravana’s great wisdom. Rama's father was also exceptionally wise, but he 
died of a broken heart when Rama had to leave the palace for the forest at 
a young age. His departure was due to some great willfulness on the part 
of his stepmother but was in fact manipulated by the gods or by destiny 
in order that Rama would come into contact with Ravana. 


His father did not have to die just as Ravana did not have to 
behave like a demon but the identification with those tendencies would 
have had to die. Something has to die whether it is of the inner or the 
outer and that is the meaning of the ‘dead’ position of Jupiter. We do not 
know the exact degree of Jupiter in Rama’s chart but it shows us a way of 
understanding the concept of its peak exaltation. 


The Moon is also ‘dead’ when it is exalted at three degrees of 
Taurus. This exaltation place of the Moon is the place of perfection of the 
mind. That is not about some mental capacity but the integration of the 
understanding with the knowing. When one can feel what one knows, 
then one comes to understand what one knows. Both feeling and 
understanding are of the mind. When Taurus rises with the Moon, then 
the Moon is ruling the third house. This represents our will. However, in 
the degrees of exaltation, selfishness cannot predominate. This is what 
‘dies' when the Moon reaches its peak. 


220 Yoga of the Planets 


% Adds 4A: 


om anantaya namah 


14, Endless. 


True knowing survives all change because it is unchanging. That 
is why there is no doubt in it and is of the nature of the nectar of 
immortality. Ananta means endless. Whatever Jupiter influences in the 
Vedic chart persists. That could be knowledge, fame and establishments 
that endure long. The teachings of people with a strong Jupiter survive. If 
something is to last, it needs a strong Jupiter influence at the time of its 
beginning. 


So AQTaala AH: 


om jayavahaya namah 


15. Bringing (Avaha) victory (Jaya). 


Jupiter opens up the wisdom that brings us in touch with our 
true knowing by its placement, aspects and associations. Survival is 
generally competitive. One theory can be replaced by another. For 
something to be endless, it has to be victorious. Both of these are the 
properties of Truth itself. The more our mind is still, while remaining 
awake, the closer we come to knowing That. 


3 ANCA Aa: 


om 4ngirasaya namah 


16. Belonging to the family of the sage Angiras. 


In Vedic times, everyone belonged to a clan descended from one 
of the Vedic Rishis or sages. This tradition, called one’s Gotra, continues 
today in India and Indian communities. Each sage has his story as well as 
certain Vedic hymns that he saw and heard in his deep awareness. Sage 
Angiras was born from the mouth or the intellect of Brahma, the creator. 
He cognized many hymns of the Rig Veda and the Atharva Veda, and 
authored various great works including a treatise on Jyotisha and 
astronomy as well as two books on meteorology. Brahman is the great 
wholeness and Angiras taught in the Manduka Upanishad that the 


jupiter, Brhaspati 221 


knowledge of Brahman is the highest knowledge. He is one of the Sapta or 
Seven Rishis who guide the destiny of mankind. 


The hymns of the Atharva Veda have more that is obviously 
about astrology and astronomy than the other Vedas and have powerful 
mantras for protection from evil. Protecting his disciples is one of the 
duties of a Guru. It says in the ancient laws that the learned should not 
[need to] resort to the police and army because they have the hymns of 
the Atharva Veda. 


PAAUAHS AA: 


om adhvarasaktaya namah 


17. Fond of and dedicated to (Asakta) religious ceremonies (Adhvara). 


Ritual, especially religious ritual, comes from Jupiter. Someone 
with jupiter in the Ascendant might have a Pija table or some kind of 
altar depending on their religion. Particularly, Adhvara points at the Soma 
sacrifice. Its purpose was to create abundance of Soma in the springtime 
for the nourishment of all the plants and the environment as a whole. 
This was when the Vedic year started with the new Moon before the 
Moon is full in Chitra constellation. Elsewhere we have discussed about 
the question of Ayanamsha and the Chitra star, Spica, marking the 
midpoint of the zodiac (Ketu 8). When the Moon is full in the Nakshatra of 
Chitra, the Sun is close to zero Aries. 


The Soma Yajiia or Yaga involved the pressing of the Soma plant 
and the drinking of the nectar. The Soma is offered to the gods as it is said 
to be their food, The Vedic gods are identified with natural phenomena 
and the growth and progress of all life. Soma is that substance that 
integrates life and thus sustains and promotes it. [t says in the Rig Veda 
that ‘the plant that men crush is not the Soma’. The true Soma is internal. 
When awareness touches Being or Truth, nectar arises and one can feel 
its nourishment throughout the whole system. 


In the Bhagavad Gita, a part of the Mahabharata epic that has 
become famous for its great wisdom, it says that contact with Brahman 
brings infinite joy. This contact arises in the silence between thoughts or 
experiences. When there is no thought and the mind is completely still 
the absolute essence of all things is glimpsed. The experience is that it 
wakes up in that silence. The joining points of zodiacal signs and 
constellations give a space that opens the door to that contact. This is 
especially true at the joining point between one year or cycle of the Sun 


222 Yoga of the Planets 


through the zodiac and the next. The movement of the Sun from Pisces to 
Aries opens a space that can nourish both men and all of nature. Hence, 
one can understand the importance of sacred acts at that time. 


The wise are fond of the inner contact That is why they advise 
being soaked in nectar through this ritual at the time of Spring when all of 
nature is rising in the vitality of creation and needs nurturance and 
integration. Here this relates principally to our own inner sacrifice, which 
produces the interna! flow of Soma. 


The Bhagavad Gita (3.14) says that the Vedic Yajiias bring rain 
beneficial for agriculture. Drought and harmful flooding are 
consequences of climate change. In recent decades, performances of these 
Yajiias have become extremely rare. As water problems, especially 
scarcity, increase in India, | expect and hope that some people will make 
great efforts to revive the Vedic rituals. 


do fafernra aa: 
om-viviktaya namah 


18. Pure and faultless. Judicious. 


Vivikta also means something abstracted or separated. Also 
single, alone, the nature of the One and the heart of the Guru, Jupiter is 
said to be riding on a swan. In Sanskrit, the word is Hamsa. There is a 
story that the swan, if given a glass of milk mixed with water, can drink 
the milk and leave the water. This apparently impossible act is symbolic 
of the capacity of awareness to distinguish truth amidst all diverse 
tendencies. This is the nature of the realized Guru. 


Hamsa is also made of ‘Ham’ and ‘sa’ meaning ‘I’ and ‘he’. The two 
joined together point to a realization where there is no separation 
between the Self and the other or between the Self and God. This is the 
nature of the Guru. There is no self-interest because there is no one else 
to distinguish one’s self interest from, and everything is in terms of the 
Self because it is all that one finds wherever one turns the attention. One 
knows that That is all there is, even though one also perceives the 
manifest differences emerging out of that One. This is the basis of perfect 
compassion. 


Vivikta means no defect. These names of the planets often refer 
back to the previous name, so while this name has its own meaning, it 
also relates to the last one. The Guru is fond of rituals (Jupiter 17) and he 
does them flawlessly. The key thing when you're doing Vedic rituals is to 


Jupiter, Brhaspati 223 


perform them correctly. They are like a key that must be exactly cut to 
turn in the lock. Jupiter's influence in our Vedic chart helps us be precise 
and effective in our work 


This name also means judicious. Judges and the judiciary tend to 
fall under Jupiter, and their responsibility is to see that everyone is 
following the law without undue harshness or discrimination. 


SO MAGA AA: 


om adhvarakrtaparaya namah 


19. Supreme (Para) amongst those who perform (Xrta) sacrifices or 
religious rituals (Adhvara). 


A sacrifice is a surrendering. The highest sacrifice is described in 
the first verse of the Yajur Veda that speaks of offering one state of 
awareness into another: the surrender of the identification with the small 
into the realization of the Great. This results in a state of complete 
relaxation of the individual will, where the Cosmic Intelligence starts to 
direct the life in a perfect way as it is now precisely correlated with the 
whole functioning of natural law. 


The word sacrifice means letting go or giving up. It follows that 
the ultimate sacrifice is the letting go of the identification with ‘I’, ‘me’, 
and ‘mine’. This cannot be accomplished by any effort of the mind, it 
occurs spontaneously when the soul is ready. 


Another meaning of Adhvara is non-injury. This name tells us 
that Jupiter’s influence encourages compassion and non-violence. 


ara AH: 


om vacaspataye namah 


20. The lord of speech. 


Vach is the word, and also the knowledge. The Veda is Vach. One 
who knows the Veda is the Vachas Pati. Pati also means the ruler of or the 
husband, so Vach is held to be a female deity, a goddess. This identifies 
Jupiter with Brahma, the husband of Saraswati, the Goddess of speech, 
knowledge and wisdom. 


224 Yoga of the Planets 


ff Jupiter is in the second house relating to speech, then one’s 
words are valued and given respect. That is because Jupiter is the 
indicator of wisdom as well as weightiness. 


s x 
do afd aa: 
om vasine namah 


21. Longed for, attractive and shining (Vashin). 


What pulls us towards anything? Jupiter attracts because it 
shines with the light of the imperishable, there is the sense of something 
of real value that transcends ordinary existence. 


The word Vashi is related to Vashya, meaning attraction, which 
crops up in the Kutas or points of marital compatibility. Vashin is a sage 
who has subdued his senses. His or her essence is the real one who is 
longed for. Someone who has knowledge of the Self and who is living in 
truth is attractive to everyone. Even the animals come to such a person. 
This explains why a person with Jupiter in the Ascendant attracts others. 
The person may fecl it does nothing for him personally, but Jupiter is not 
to be used for oneself. The attraction others feel is to the knowledge and 
to the truth inside that person, rather than to the person himself. We see 
this all around us, as everybody feels attracted towards a genuinely 
honest person and dishonesty repels. Honesty is true beauty. 


Power also attracts but this kind of attraction is not based on 
truth. People gather around for their worldly benefit. As soon as someone 
sits on a pedestal, probiems start to arise though a good leader is a 
blessing for the community, 


F249 AA: 
om vasyaya namah 


22. Attraction itself. 


This name refers to Vashya once more, only here it is in terms of 
attraction itself. This is a key factor in relationship compatibility. [t is 
Jupiter that is holding the relationship together. As we mentioned under 
Jupiter 5, if one individual's Jupiter is connected to the other person’s key 
planets especially the Moon, then the relationship is likely to persist, 
especially if this is reciprocated in the charts. If not, then there can be 
some imbalance in the sense that one person feels much more 


Jupiter, Brhaspati 225 


comfortable in the relationship than the other does. An astrologer often 
hears this complaint. If Jupiter aspects or conjoins the other’s Moon, then 
this is felt as positive support. 


Other types of aspect or conjunction give support but it is less 
emotional, rather it is experienced in other ways, This can cause some 
dissatisfaction. However, the benefits provided are real and that is why 
the two are together. If we can accept the good without making an issue 
of what we think we do not have, then we can enjoy a happy life. Jupiter 
enables satisfaction. Dissatisfaction comes from other planets, especially 
Venus as she often stokes more desire than she satisfies. 


do altsra aa: 


om varisthaya namah 


23. The pre-eminent, the most distinguished. 


He represents such people and all things that are the best. 
Varishtha, or the word ‘Guru’, also means the longest, the widest and the 
heaviest. For instance, in Sanskrit a syllable that is long or heavy, e.g. by 
containing two consonants, is called Guru. 


jupiter gives pre-eminence. Someone with Jupiter in or aspecting 
the tenth house tends to obtain a high position. Jupiter in the eighth 
house can give powerful knowledge of astrology or the occult. This 
includes knowledge of the ancient arts and sciences, the hidden things of 
antiquity. Another indication of the eighth is lifespan. The nature of 
Jupiter is Ananta, or endless. If the lord of the twelfth house of loss and 
reduction is in the eighth and it happens to be Jupiter, it can increase the 
lifespan. 


In the second house, Jupiter can indicate the person comes from 
an eminent family and it can give authority to the appearance and speech. 
Like this, Jupiter in different places in the chart brings eminence to that 
area of life. 


So APA AUT AA: 


om vagvicaksanaya namah 


24, Wise, learned, skilful, expert, circumspect in his speech. Far-sighted, 
having the ability to foretell matters. 


226 Yoga of the Planets 


Vach (same as Vag) is speech. Vichakshana means skilful so he is 
an expert in speaking, like an advocate. Vagvichakshana can also mean 
circumspect and farsighted. This is one who knows the past, present and 
future. He can foresee and prophesy. Clearly, Jupiter is the key planet for 
astrologers and all kinds of advisors. 


fh Praayhenwda 7a: 


om cittasuddhikaraya namah 


25. The cause (Kara) of a purified (Shuddhi) consciousness (Citta). 


The wise Guru shows us what is real. The realization of That, 
giving attention to That, purifies awareness. What is purified awareness? 
Even the wise live with their tendencies and the thoughts that arise due 
to them. In the Yoga Sutras of Patanjali (1.50), the primary text of Yoga, it 
speaks of how the impressions that arise as the awareness becomes 
subtler predominate over the grosser more external impressions. 
Ultimately, the experience of pure awareness predominates. 


Some have had that experience and still fell back into expressing 
egoistic tendencies. Perhaps their surrender to that knowing that 
transcends all egotism was not complete. Experiences of awakening are 
not enlightenment. They are just experiences. Jupiter indicates wisdom 
rather than experience. The identification with truth is what purifies the 
mind. 


Everyone has some connection to truth. We sense what is right 
and not right. We can also sense something that is not transient by quietly 
paying attention to our self, the ‘I’ that is experiencing. If we give that our 
attention, we will know it more. With this, mental purity and bliss will 
increase, 


do sad AA: 


om srimate namah 


26. Possessed of pure auspiciousness (Shriman). 


Shri is also abundance of all kinds. This arises from a pure 
awareness. In the Yoga Sitras (2.37) it says “all jewels present 
themselves to one established in non-stealing’. The real stealing is when 
we pursue something knowing that we do not need to. When, instead of 


Jupiter, Brhaspati 227 


indulging in a tendency, we simply let it be as it is, then it naturally gets 
finer and more nectar-like however crude it appears in the beginning. 


Two people with the same planetary combination do not have 
the same experience. They both have the same tendency but in one its 
expression may be crude, in the other refined. In one it is may be 
destructive, in the other it might even appear ‘spiritual’. Both offer the 
same invitation to the individual, to know something deeper. Crudeness 
shakes everything and this can open one’s eyes and make one look for 
something finer. As one becomes finer by leaving the crude tendency 
alone one finds its refined manifestations. For instance, when Jupiter is 
conjunct Rahu, the North node at birth. In this case, there may be a deep 
attachment to a teacher or there may be a tendency to criticize him or her 
or both tendencies may manifest. In these cases, one will benefit from 
gently letting such tendencies go. This is an internal process and has 
nothing to do with external circumstances. Relaxation brings real benefit. 


So FATS AH: 


om caitraya namah 


27. The sanctuary. 


Chaitra is the place of refuge. Jupiter peopte have always been 
the source of sanctuary, whether in the form of the religion or good 
advisors. 


This name may relate to the importance of the lunar month 
Chaitra, the first in the Vedic calendar, which brought the Soma Yaga or 
sacrifice as discussed in Jupiter 17. 


& Paaratenta an: 
om citrasikhandijaya namah 


28. Born (Ja) in the constellation of the Big Dipper (in Ursa Major), the 
seven stars which are also called the Sapta Rishi. 


This constellation is called Chitrashikhandin which means the 
wonderment of the colour of the peacock’s tail. It falls in the Nakshatra 
Pushya and is considered highly auspicious as it is the seat of the spiritual 
guides of mankind, the seven great immortal! seers (Sapta Rishi). The 
Shikha is the tuft on the head of the traditional Brahmin left uncut 


228 Yoga of the Planets 


because of its connection to the Sahasra or Crown Chakra. 
Chitrashikhandin can mean that this area is shining and specifically refers 
to the seven Rishis including Angiras, Jupiter’s father. 


H JEU Aa: 


om brhadrathaya namah 


29, His chariot (Ratha) is vast and expanding (Brhat). 


This name is quite amazing in the light of the latest discoveries 
from the probes we have sent to Jupiter. 


Below is a NASA/Caltech Jet Propulsion Laboratory artist's 
impression of Jupiter’s magnetosphere, a kind of aura consisting of 
charged particles held by Jupiter’s magnetic field. It is truly immense, 
many times the size of the Sun. The planet Jupiter is just a small dot in the 
middle. Its size has expanded greatly over the last few years. Even though 
this may just be a phenomena of the moment, it is fitting in the context of 
this name. It is driven by matter being stripped from the volcanoes of the 
moon lo and so may well be an ongoing expansion process. Astronauts 
who went to the Moon have said they heard the sound OM in space. If you 
listen to the sound of Jupiter's magnetosphere available from NASA, there 
is an underlying sound that could be interpreted like that. 


Vee Pw 


test Day: 


Image credit NASA/JPL 


Jupiter, Brhaspati 229 


The Sanskrit root ‘Br is indicative of greatness and endless 
expansion. It gives us the word Brahman, the Great. This is what the 
saints and yogis are said to realize. In meditation, many people have 
moments when they experience a vastness or an expansion. This is a taste 
of That. The ‘y’ in ‘br’ is a vowel in Sanskrit pronounced like the ‘ry’ in 
jewelry. 


$0 TERA AA: 


om brhadbhanave namah 


30. Shining (Bhanu) greatly or the great one (Brhat) shining. 


The planet Jupiter is not a star but it radiates its own energy, not 
just reflecting the light of the Sun. Brhad is also Brahman, the great One, 
the Supreme Being. It is the ultimate light. A true Guru is one who has 
dissolved their ego just leaving the little that is required to function. The 
Indian teacher Ammachi commented that when she is asked a question, 
the ego arises in order to construct the answer and then subsides. 


The aura of the wise is vast just like the planet Jupiter's is vast 
compared to the visible body. 


do JE AA: 
om brhaspataye namah 


31. The great lord or the lord of the great ones, the gods who are the 
personified laws of nature. 


Brhaspati is one of the most frequently used names for Jupiter. 
He guides or even commands the natural law. The laws of nature are 
integrated in the wholeness of nature that is the Shakti or nature of the 
cosmic person, or the absolute. Brahman, the cosmic wholeness, is that 
which is greater than even the sum of the absolute and its nature. It is 
pure wholeness. 


There is a story that a wild elephant charged the Buddha intent 
on killing him. The Buddha looked upon him with such love that the 
elephant came to a stop and became tame. There are hundreds of such 
stories illustrating how sanctity gives power over nature. This is what is 
meant by this name. 


230 Yoga of the Planets 


do spqieera aA: 


om abhistadaya namah 


32. Granting (Da) that which we desire (Abhista). 
Ina birth chart, Jupiter is the giver of boons. 


Any desire expressed in the presence of a knower of Brahman 
tends to be fulfilled. We all experience that the more relaxed we are, the 
more readily any impulse arising within us comes to fruition. The more 
we try to grasp it, the more it retreats from us. I say ‘impulse’ rather than 
‘thought’ because when we are quiet inside there is more integration of 
heart and mind. Then thoughts are just fine impulses, different in 
character from what we consider regular thoughts. 


$ quraaya aa: 


om suracaryaya namah 


33. The teacher (Acarya) of the gods (Sura). 


This is similar to jupiter 31 but emphasizes that the pure hearted 
actually educate the natural law so it becomes more benign. The opposite 
to this is when nature becomes increasingly wild in response to our 
selfishness. We are witnessing the later at this time in history. The storm 
is rising both of humanity's impact on the biosphere and nature's rage. 
Humanity seems divided into those who are ready to accept that we must 
take a different path and those who want to keep on indulging in the hope 
that there will be no consequences. 


Ho QUTAM aH: 


om suraradhyaya namah 


34. Worshipped (Ardadhya) by the gods (Sura). 


The teacher must be respected for the disciple to acquire the 
knowledge. It is an attitude that encompasses receptivity. Being receptive 
is a true form of worship. What more can one give than one’s full 
attention? 


Jupiter, Brhaspati 231 


* ¢ 
$o GRAMPIAN AA: 


om surakaryakrtodyamaya namah 


35, Ready (Udyama) to do (Krta) the work (Kdrya) of the gods (Sura). 
Diligent or persevering in that. 


The gods are the natural laws. They sustain the universe. The 
Vedic literature speaks of Sura and Asura. The Sura harmonize and 
sustain while the Asura cause destruction and thus change, Both are 
essential to evolution. Jupiter represents priests and the leaders of 
society. Their responsibility is to sustain life and is thus doing the work of 
the Sura on their level. In the Vedic chart, Jupiter’s conjunction and 
aspects uphold whatever is indicated in the places influenced. The chart 
is the universe in miniature. 


Jupiter’s power is in his blessing. All of us have some blessing 
power. The more truthful and chaste we are, the greater it is. ff a good 
person blesses us, even though it seems just a few words, some extra 
good luck follows us. That is why, as we meet and separate from people, 
we repeat words of blessing — “Go safely”, “Be well”. We do it even if we 
have no belief or understanding of the concept of blessing. Where are the 
mechanics of such blessings discussed? 


It is in the nature of things that the elders give their blessings to 
the youth. Even an old lady in a care home has so much to give and she 
wants to do it. Even if she remembers little, her power of blessing is very 
real. If we pay attention, we will feel and even experience the effects of 
both blessings and curses. This is a central theme in the Vedic literature. 


In Jupiter 34, we see that he is worshipped by the gods. Jupiter 
35 tells us that he is ready to do their work. This means that if we show 
respect and serve the worthy, they will help us. This is how we 
accomplish what otherwise could be impossible. I learnt this at an early 
age and was diligent in speaking respectfully and trying to assist my 
elders. The result was thatthey were very helpful to me. Those with great 
learning, took trouble to teach me. 


In the ancient epic, the Ramayana, when Lord Rama is to go to 
the forest, he and his wife Sita approach his mother and touch her feet. 
Even today, this is the way younger people respect elders in the East. The 
text records that they left that place ‘shining’ with the power of the 
blessing they received. It is said in the ancient texts that the word of a 
chaste woman cannot fail. This is true of anyone with a pure heart. 
Whatever goodness we have in our hearts, if we wish someone well, a 
little of our good goes to help them and that is why we feel a wave of 


232 Yoga of the Planets 


swectness in our heart. Giving gives, taking takes. That is why the wise 
have always preferred giving to receiving. 


There is a story about Motilal Nehru. He lost his first son and 
wife in the childbirth and was having great difficulty having further 
children with his new wife. He and two companions went to visit a 
famous yogi who lived in a tree. They told the yogi of his longing for a son 
and the yogi looked for some time at Motilal and said, “It is not in your 
destiny to have a son.” One companion argued saying that all it needed 
was the blessing of the yogi and the fate could change. The yogi looked at 
him and then sprinkled some water on his head saying, “By doing this, | 
have sacrificed all the benefits of all the austerities | have conducted over 
generations.” The next day, the yogi was dead. Ten months later on Nov, 
14, 1889 Motilal Nehru had a son, Jawaharlal Nehru, who became the first 
Prime Minister of India. His daughter, Indira Gandhi, became Prime 
Minister and after her, so did her son Rajeev Gandhi. The skeptics will 
dismiss such stories but the basic idea is irrefutable. Blessings, like 
curses, have their effect. 


If someone curses us, we have to bear with it. If we are 
blameless, then it will have little effect. If we have any feelings of guilt, 
whatever reason we imagine for it, it is best to take a positive attitude. 
The past is what it is but we have control over the present. The ancient 
law book of Manu, the Manu Smriti, says that, if we have feelings of guilt, 
we should undertake some penance until those feelings go away. There is 
merit in the Christian concept of making a confession and receiving 
guidance on an appropriate penance. At the end of the day, all that really 
matters to all of us is feeling at ease. In Jyotisha, it is a key principle that it 
is Jupiter that makes us take the wise path. 


ss A EEN 
% Wana Aa: 
om girvanaposakaya namah 


36. Supporting, nourishing and advancing (Poshaka) the deities (Girvana), 
all the 33 crores of the gods or laws of nature. 


Knowledge sustains every kind of action. One way of thinking 
about nature is that there is a government, it has a head and then there 
are many levels of administration. Hence the 33 crores (a crore is 10 
million). When one goes to get a small permit from the local government, 
then the junior official who has to give it is a kind of deity at that moment. 
She is the one who has to be made happy. Similarly, traditional cultures 
and those whose hearts are wide open recognize the life power in every 


jupiter, Brhaspati 233 


little and big thing in creation. If they want to uproot a plant, cut a tree or 
kill an animal, then some process of paying respect to the nature and 
even taking permission is natural. If we protect nature, Jupiter blesses us. 


Some years ago, | saw a report from Ethiopia on the BBC web 
site. The event occurred June 9, 2005. A girl had been kidnapped from a 
village and was being carried off by a gang of youths when they were 
approached by a group of lions. The young men fled. The lions 
surrounded the girl and stood guard until rescuers arrived. Then they 
quietly withdrew. Nature protects the innocent. 


Ho FT] AA: 


om dhanyaya namah 


37. Bestowing virtue, fortune and happiness. 


Dhana is literally the prize, that which we cherish and value. 
Dhanya bestows it. Jupiter's aspect or other association in the chart can 
confer things of real value. Ultimately, Jupiter gives a pure heart and the 
unalloyed joy and sweetness that fill it Jupiter also represents those 
people who sponsor and present prizes and rewards, the people of means 
and position in society. On a higher level, it represents the givers of true 
knowledge. 


om gispataye namah 


38. Lord (Pati) of the divine singers (Gis), those who know and chant the 
Veda. 


Learning is deeply connected to the strength and influence of 
Jupiter at the time of birth. Strength and influence are two different 
things. Jupiter may be strong but positioned so it has little influence over 
the personality. Then one has an appearance of knowledge. 


Traditionally, the highest learning is in the spiritual arts and 
sciences. The root knowledge is the Veda, which is sung or chanted. 
Jupiter rules over the element of Akasha or ether through which all sound 
passes. Those with hearing problems generally have some affliction to 
Jupiter such as having Jupiter in the sixth house of disease with other 


234 Yoga of the Planets 


afflictions. Jupiter is especially important in the charts of writers as well 
as all those who teach and express any kind of knowledge. 


do FRA aA: 


om girisaya namah 


39. The one who dwells in or is the lord (fsha] of the mountains (Giri). 


We often think of the great gurus as living in remote areas in the 
Himalayas. This is also a reference to Lord Shiva who is conceptualized as 
dwelling atop the mountain Kailasha in Western Tibet. It is sacred to four 
religions: Hinduism, Buddhism, Bon and Jainism. 


Several saints have mentioned that there is a community of sages 
living in that part of Tibet. These sages are many hundreds of years old 
and are clustered around an ashram called Gyanganj. | have met two 
saints who either visited the ashram or met an adept from there. One 
showed me a newspaper clipping about one of these sages who stayed for 
some time in Varanasi. This saint could convert sunlight into material 
objects. 


S AAA AA: 


om anaghaya namah 


40. The sinless. 


Anagha is a very sacred divine name particularly associated with 
Shri Dattatreya. Its meanings include pure, spotless and without injury as 
well as innocent and handsome. That which is spotless is naturally 
handsome, Jupiter in strength and strongly influencing the Ascendant 
keeps a person on a path characterized by innocence, purity and 
unselfishness. Our DNA directs us to look after our own interests. In that 
sense, selfishness is natural. However, sharing and caring makes society 
stronger and thereby enhances our own self-interest. if we share with our 
neighbours, they share with us. 


1 remember reading a news report about a trial of a sugar 
company executive who took a one million dollar bribe, His defence was 
“If someone offers you money and you don't take it, you must be mad.” He 
had a temporary gain followed by punishment. His society had to bear 
with shortages and many problems because of his misdirection of 


Jupiter, Brhaspati 235 


resources. Sinlessness arises from non-stealing and the blessing of that 
State is priceless. 


go Uleaara Aa: 
om dhivaraya namah 


41. He has the best of intellects. 


Jupiter blesses us with intelligence. Dhi is intellect and 
intelligence itself. Vara is the best of anything as well as a boon or 
blessing. In Vedic Astrology, it says that four Grahas grant high 
intelligence: Jupiter, the Sun, Rahu and Ketu. Jupiter is the best because it 
is the least likely to exploit that intelligence in a way that disadvantages 
others. Jupiter’s mantras are a storehouse of blessings. 


do QUT AA: 


om dhisanaya namah 


42. Intelligent and wise. 


In the Vedas, Dhisana is a name for the Soma drink as well as the 
goblet in which itis held. The connection between intelligence and nectar 
is inseparable. One cannot exist without the other. The touch of truth 
brings wisdom to awareness and causes nectar to flow into the physical. 
They are like two sides of the same coin. Thus it has been wisely said, that 
one can tell wisdom by the sweetness that accompanies it. If there is no 
nectar in what you think you know then it is a thought or belief and not 
true knowing. 


Dhisana is also speech and sacred expressions. Jupiter rules over 
expression and the quality of it. 


 feanqqona aH: 


om divyabhiisanaya namah 


43. Having divine (Divya) ornaments (Bhusana). 


The Graha Jupiter can give us a glow in which others sense a 
certain divinity or higher wisdom. This again reminds us of Jupiter's vast 


236 Yoga of the Planets 


magnetosphere, which can be seen due to its radio waves and its 
wonderful auroras. 


% dagiada ay: 


om devapijitaya namah 


44, Worshipped (Pujita) by the gods (Deva). 


Deva is the shining one, and can refer to those whose purity of 
life has given them a certain glow. They are worshipping the source of 
that purity which is wisdom itself. Those who embody that are 
themselves objects of honour. 


Some people see a golden aura around the wise. Others see it 
everywhere. Wisdom is not localized to any individual. It is only that it 
can become concentrated and those places of concentration attract those 
who have some degree of insight and love for that. 


In many books about saints, we find descriptions of celestial 
beings worshipping the saint who is in no way affected by this. The birds 
that flocked around Saint Francis were following the same law of nature. | 
once was a guest of a very delightful couple. The wife has Jupiter in 
Sagittarius and is a particularly kind and exemplary person who 
meditates every day. In their previous house, there were two fruit trees, 
one each side of the entrance. The fruit was delicious but the monkeys 
were taking all of it. One day, seeing this she marched up to the trees and 
said, loudly, “this tree is for you and this one is for me.” Amazingly, the 
monkeys accepted this and left the fruit on one tree alone. 


- g 
30 UTA AH: 
om dhanurdharaya namah 


45. Carrying (Dhara) a bow. 


Dhanus is a bow. It is also the Vedic name for the sign Sagittarius. 
This is the MalaTrikona or most favoured of Jupiter's signs. It represents 
the proverbial battle of good and evil, light and dark. A bow has the 
power to hold and release a weapon, it gives great potential which has to 
be realized. The Nakshatra Punarvasu, which starts in Gemini and enters 
Cancer is also ruled by Jupiter and has the bow as a symbol. The next 
Nakshatra Pushya in the middle of Cancer is the place where Jupiter 


Jupiter, Brhaspati 237 


reaches its full expression becoming exalted and has the symbol of an 
arrow. Punarvasu moving to Pushya fully achieves its mark. 


Jupiter is not portrayed holding a bow; he is shown carrying the 
items indicating knowledge and renunciation. However, these are the 
‘bows’ that create the potential for the expression of wisdom. Once the 
purity of life is established, the bow is drawn and then the expression of it 
is effortless. 


30 aaa Aa: 


om daityahantre namah 


46. Destroying (Hantr) the demonic tendencies. 


While the Devas are the divine consciousness radiating its purity 
the Daityas are the egoistic tendencies that cover the truth. The influence 
of Jupiter exposes these. Once we see what we are doing, then a kind of 
sweet shame arises. If we are true to ourselves we gently leave those 
tendencies alone. Working on our tendencies to fix the situation only 
makes it worse. When we work on our neediness and other unhelpful 
habits, whatever energy we have is given over to those. Leaving them 
gently be lets them wither for lack of attention. 


if this is difficult, then we need to find a mentor to help us 
through the necessary changes. Jupiter rules mentors whatever the area 
they are expert in. If we are having difficulty finding a mentor who we are 
sure we can trust, then these mantras can help. They are intended to 
strengthen Jupiter within us and around us. 


# ZAMAN Fa: 


om dayasaraya namah 


47. The very essence of compassion. 


Daya is compassion and Sara is the best form of it. This is his 
wealth. This relates to the previous name (Jupiter 46). Fighting with our 
problematic tendencies coarsens life by its harshness. Compassion leaves 
them be where they are and as they are with gentleness and even 
kindness. Wisdom is always accompanied by compassion. 


All these good qualities increase when a person comes under the 
influence of Jupiter either at birth or by Dasha, the planetary cycles, or by 


238 Yoga of the Planets 


transit. Wherever Jupiter’s glance or aspect falls is touched by that 
compassion of grace. 


Galea AA: 


om dayakaraya namah 


48. Causing (Kara) compassion (Daya). 


Jupiter is life and causes compassion. That is how these are 
inextricably linked. We see a person who does not exhibit compassion as 
mentally abnormal. The military have programs to combat a tendency by 
soldiers to shoot over the heads of the enemy. Why do we go to war? Has 
some psychopath been responsible for starting it? The great 
Mahabharata war that killed millions involved numerous noble souls. It 
came about because of the evil tendencies of one man and his 
determination to be the king. His family, teachers and friends constantly 
gave him good advice but he rejected it all. As a result, they were all 
obliged by their loyalties to participate. Most of the fighting men of 
Northern India and some neighbouring states participated. Only twelve of 
the leading warriors remained after the war finally stopped. This is a 
powerful reminder of the value of life and compassion. 


Wherever there is life, we can find compassion. It is al! around 
us. Exceptional examples are found in the lives of the saints. One lady 
saint was visited by a man who had been sick for many years. After he 
left, her disciples observed that the saint was exhibiting the same 
symptoms as the man’s disease. After some time she recovered. When 
asked, she said, “For him it would have meant years of suffering while for 
me it is just some minutes.” 


ARB AA: 


om daridryanasanaya namah 


49, Destroying (Ndshana) poverty (Ddridrya). 


This is another insight into the grace bestowed by the aspect of 
Jupiter or the blessing of a great soul. A man once approached a great 
Guru in Northern India crying from poverty. The Guru told him to touch 
the leg of the Guru’s chair and piles of bank notes fell to the floor. He 
asked the man to take the money and start a particular type of business. 
The man, a Muslim, went away and after some time returned. He 


Jupiter, Brhaspati 239 


informed the Guru that he had become very wealthy by following his 
advice and offered a donation to the ashram, He knew that this Guru 
never accepted donations as he had promised his mother he would not 
become a begging Swami. The Guru laughed and said “Do you think the 
money | gave you made a hole in my coffers which you want to fill?”"4 


Life is much more than we imagine. We tend ta live by our beliefs 
but these are just thought patterns. Even if they appear good in general, 
at any moment they may not be the best for the situation. The perfection 
of life gives us the natural ability to know within the heart what is true 
even if we cannot mentally understand why. We know it is true because 
there is a sweetness and a cleanness in it even if it appears to involve 
some sacrifice. Most of our beliefs are convenient constructs that support 
our egoistic tendencies though one usually denies this. If one is honest, 
one sees one’s own self-interest even in what we most deeply believe. It 
takes great courage to relax our grip on those mental constructs and fall 
into the arms of the gentle knowing coming from our innermost self. 
However, without that relaxation the real poverty of life only grows, The 
simple letting go opens unlimited possibilities. 


oo Tear FA: 


om dhanyaya namah 


50. Bestowing wealth (Dhanya). 


Wealth follows the disappearance of poverty (Jupiter 49). As this 
name has been repeated, a secondary meaning should be taken. Dhana is 
the second house. This house can indicate wealth and also speech and 
other resources like learning. In Jupiter 37, the context provided by the 
associated names indicated speech, virtue and knowledge. Here the 
context relates to wealth. The repetition tells us to focus on all of these 
areas in our analysis of the astrological chart. 


do afaNaqaeayy AA: 


om daksinayanasambhavaya namah 


51. Born (Sambhava) during the Southern course of the Sun 
(Daksindyana). 


14 The Whole Thing, the Real Thing. Rameswar Tiwari, 1977. 


240 Yoga of the Planets 


The Southern course starts from around June 21, the Summer 
solstice in the Northern hemisphere. Thereafter the Sun moves to the 
South for six months. During this time, the Northern hemisphere 
experiences cooling and a more inward tendency. This is in contrast to 
the more outward tendency of the Spring and the months around it when 
the Sun is getting higher in the sky. 


Jupiter represents wealth and high position but fundamentally it 
is about a gentle retiring inside from which a deeper perspective is found 
on life. It is this deeper perspective that provides the basis for moving 
forward, for the creation of life and the expansion of everything. Jupiter is 
known for expansion but this name reminds us that expansion is based 
on an inner motion, a retiring rather like the pulling back of an arrow on 
the bow. The settled mind and heart have vastly greater potential but 
there is no tension, only alertness. 


Auspicious works are usually begun during the Uttarayana or 
Northern course but become ‘Guru’ or substantial during the Southern 
course. In the same way, Jupiter relates to middle age when our 
undertakings tend to mature. He rules over this time of life. 


30 ©. aa: 


om dhanurminadhipaya namah 


52. The ruler (Adhipa) of Sagittarius (Dhanus) and Pisces (Mina). 


Dhanus is Jupiter’s male sign. It is the priest or educator actively 
working for educating and benefitting the people. In Jupiter 45, we 
discussed about Sagittarius as a place of war between good and evil. In 
this sign, Jupiter feels a duty and inspiration to support the forces of good. 
Sagittarius is full of wisdom so it may feel its opinion is naturally correct. 
Therefore, its challenge is being able to discuss and appreciate other 
people's opinions. 


Mina is the ocean, it is vast like the nature of Jupiter receiving 
without reservation all the streams and rivers. Mina is simply being, 
absorbing all the diverse tendencies in its broad fulfilment. Pisces people 
may not speak much and their space is vaster than others so they may not 
be easily understood. They feel the deep currents below the (relatively) 
calm surface. It is the last and thus the most advanced of the twelve signs 
since it represents the end of the path that started in Aries. Since it 
accepts everything, like the ocean, Pisces people may ingest things which 
are not ideal for their health. In fact drinking, eating and accumulating 


Jupiter, Brhaspati 241 


wealth is what they often like to do as Taurus, the sign of the mouth and 
wealth, is in third house from it, and the third is the place of desire. 


Pisces is the sign closest to Brahman, the great. This leads to a 
sense of greatness. While this is often deserved, the challenge of Pisces is 
controlling or overcoming their own ego. Both signs benefit from sitting 
quietly and listening to others speak. 


3 cava aa: 
om devaya namah 


53. Divine (Deva) by nature. 


In the Vedic literature it says that mankind is primarily Rajasic 
while the divine beings are primarily Sattvic. Thus man is frequently in 
the grip of passion and constantly active while the Sattvic beings are calm 
and naturally satisfied. The influence of Jupiter in the Vedic chart 
contributes the Sattvic quality to whatever it aspects or the significations 
of the house it occupies. Planets in its own sign or Nakshatra also have 
this underlying influence. An affliction to Jupiter can mean that the Sattvic 
quality is disturbed. 


We are all a mixture of the three, Sattva, Rajas and Tamas but 
from the arrangements of planets in the chart one can see what sort of 
mix shows in each area of the life of aperson. This is modified at different 
times by the Dashas or planetary cycles. The Jupiter cycle always follows 
the cycle of Rahu. Rahu is Tamas and may bring addictive tendencies and 
other confusion unless well placed and associated. When the Jupiter cycle 
Starts, Sattva rises in the person and they can recoil from the past 
behaviour and ‘clean up their act’. We grow through the many challenges 
of Rahu and this is the basis of the wisdom that shines forth in Jupiter's 
Dasha. 


Fo AAO AA: 
om dhanurbanadharaya namah 


54. Carrying (Dhara) a bow (Dhanus) and arrow (Bana). 


In Jupiter 45 and 52, we discussed the bow with respect to 
certain Nakshatras and the symbology of Sagittarius. In this name we see 
that he not only carries a bow indicating potential but has the arrow to 


242 Yoga of the Planets 


achieve his mark. Dhanus can also mean an instrument for measuring the 
position of the sun and planets. Bana can mean a part of the mathematics 
for computing their position. Thus this name can indicate an astronomer. 


The Guru is not merely sitting; his attention penetrates our 
hearts and illuminates us so we can see what is true. The Guru quality is 
ever abiding within us so we are not dependent on the physical presence 
of a teacher. Even without a teacher, the Guru quality is lively and 
watching. When needed, it will appear. It is our very Self. 


3 BX aU: 
om haraye namah 


55. The lord. 


Hari is a name of Lord Vishnu and indicates both a ray of light 
and the yellow, greenish or tawny colour (see Sun 65}. Jupiter's 
predominant colour is considered to be yellow. He is associated with 
yellow gems, primarily the yellow sapphire. Jupiter's finger is the index 
finger but it is usually considered more auspicious to wear the gem on the 
ring finger. A fiery gem on the index finger can make us irritable. If 
wearing a sapphire, a gold setting is preferred. 


Hari suggests the continuous arising of joy, Ha Ri. This is the fruit 
of wisdom. Chant this name to rise above sorrow. 


do aletaqqararg aA: 


om angirovarsasafijataya namah 


56. Born (Safijata) in the year (Varsa) of Angiras. 


Each year has a name in the 60 year cycle defined by the motion 
of the mean Jupiter. These Jovian years correspond to the calendric years 
(see Jupiter 4). The year starts when the Vedic year starts. 


This and the following are names that describe the birth of the 
planet as if it were a human born on earth. The classic Jataka Parijéta 
describes one born in the year Angirasa as ‘rich, wise, experienced and 
always compassionate.’ These are the qualities expected in a guru or 
guide. 


Another name with the same meaning is Angirasabdasafijata. 


Jupiter, Brhaspati 243 


do SRR: PSA AA: 


om angirah kulasambhavaya namah 


$7. Born (Sambhava) in the family (Kula) of Brahmarishi Angiras. 


Jupiter 16 indicates that he is the son of Rishi Angiras. This name 
indicates that all Gurus are considered members of the tribe or social 
group founded by the sage. That is why all those who teach spiritual 
wisdom are classed as Brahmins and are thus expected to maintain a 
spiritual practice and follow a Sattvic lifestyle, as far as reasonably 
possible. There is no firm rule here as the infinite variety of planetary 
positions can give every kind of tendency. Those Gurus who insist on 
perfect vegetarianism and so forth are ruled by Saturn, the disciplinarian. 
The more lenient are ruled by Jupiter. Birds of a feather flock together. 


It is interesting how this arises. Saturn is the brother of Yama 
and reaches its weakest place (debilitated) in Yama’s Nakshatra Bharani 
in the middle of Aries. The symbol of Bharani is the Yoni or female organ. 
This Nakshatra has powerful energy that is hard to control and so Saturn 
here tends to lose focus. Thus strict control is important to Saturn though 
it is not necessarily about celibacy. Saturn's strongest sign (the 
MilaTrikona) is Aquarius, which is a passionate sign, but its natural 
desire is to maintain Dharma or righteousness. Jupiter is weakest in 
Capricorn, which is the sign of big business. Thus money making and 
association with the wealthy can be distracting for Jupiter and religious 
institutions which are ruled by Jupiter usually follow the charity model. 


Jupiter's strongest sign, Sagittarius, is the sign indicating priests 
and those who actively uphold the Dharma but its natural desire is to 
enjoy pleasure. We see this in the Vedic chart and learn this from the 
story of Brhaspati who had children by three women, one of whom was 
the wife of his brother. From this we can understand how unmarried 
Gurus and priests are not always celibate. This disappoints the disciples 
and followers because the Sagittarius type is the classic role model and 
everyone looks to them for setting a perfect standard. The other Jupiter 
Guru, the Pisces person, tends to desire wealth. If he starts charging for 
his services, then we should understand. Strangely, in all of us there is a 
natural desire which appears contrary to our inherent nature. This easily 
causes confusion. However, that is how life has been designed. Probably, 
the idea of taking vows about relationships and/or money is an approach 
to controlling a perceived weakness. Then determination battles with 
desire. Jyotisha shows us how there are times when maintaining vows 
comes easily and others when it is much more difficult. | suspect that 
humility alone can manage through the harder phases. 


244 Yoga of the Planets 


We should also be clear that not all teachers and Gurus are 
primarily Jupiter people. Venus is also a Guru and every planet has great 
wisdom to share. 


i Reena aa: 


om sindhudesadhipaya namah 


58. The ruler (Adhipa) of the country (Desha) through which the Sindhu 
or Indus river runs. 


Sindhu also means the sea so this could refer to the seashore as 
well as waters of all kinds. Why do humans love to be beside water, 
especially the seashore? Seventy percent of the US population lives in a 
county bordering the sea despite the vast inland areas of the country. A 
view of any water adds significantly to the price of a house. Pisces is the 
ocean and Cancer indicates lakes and rivers. Both are strong places for 
Jupiter. The water’s edge has a special healing energy, which we all feel. 
This name confirms it. 


Names like this of the planets and their relation to different parts 
of India is used in resolving questions. The Indus river flows through 
what is now Pakistan. 


ie a“ 
de Wad aa: 
om dhimate namah 


59. Highly intelligent (Dhiman). 


Literally possessed of Dhi or intellectuai capacity. Dhi is not 
merely the intellect. The word Samadhi is known to many as a state of 
settled or quiet awareness. Nirvikalpa Samadhi is a state without thought. 
Savikalpa Samadhi retains the inner silence along with mental activity. In 
either case, the Dhi or intelligence or consciousness is unruffled and 
steady indicated by the word Sama meaning evenness. 


Dhi also means reflection and meditation including prayer and 
devotion. Therefore, the name Dhiman means that this comes naturally to 
him. When people start a Dasha or cycle of Jupiter, then they often take to 
practices that cultivate Samadhi, formally or informally. 


Jupiter, Brhaspati 245 


do TANIA aa: 


om svarnakayaya namah 


60. Golden (Svarna) bodied (Kaya). 


He has that kind of lustre as we alluded to before. It is the light of 
wisdom seeping forth from every pore. 


= ¢ 
3 MPs AA: 
om caturbhujaya namah 


61. Having four arms (Chatur Bhuja). 


Jupiter is deeply related to the Vedas, which have a fourfold 
division. The four divisions of the Veda are the Rig, Sama, Yajur and 
Atharva. Thus this name suggests one who has broad knowledge and 
skills, covering many areas. 


Prior to the Second World War, cultures all over the world used 
the four armed Swastika as a symbol of good luck and deep wisdom. 
Some places refused to abandon their tradition and even in the West, this 
is slowly coming back. The proper appearance of the Swastika looks 
nothing like the symbol used in the Second World War. 


do SAINT AA: 
om hemangadaya namah 


62. Giving golden (Hema) coloured limbs (Aga). 


Gold is the metal of Jupiter. ‘Da’ is to give or produce but it can 
also mean to see. Purified consciousness creates a golden coloured aura 
butit can also enable one to see such an aura around everything. 


go SAAS AA: 
om hemavapuse namah 


63. Having a beautiful golden (Hema) torm (Vapus). 


246 Yoga of the Planets 


This emphasizes what was already said. The state is not merely 
on the surface but all pervading. 


Ho SPP TA: 


om hemabhisanabhisitaya namah 


64. Decorated (Bhusita) with golden (Hema) ornaments (Bhiisana). 


His radiance is pure gold. When a real knower of reality is found, 
this can be sensed even by those who have never seen an aura. 


% Tq Aa: 


om pusyanathaya namah 


65. The Vedic ruler (Natha) of Pushya Nakshatra. 


Pushya is nourishment or blossoming. Wherever Jupiter appears 
in the chart, if otherwise well-placed, it promotes or causes a blossoming 
of the areas of life to which it is connected. Especially those houses it 
aspects benefit. Jupiter aspects the sign opposite and those in trina! 
positions. 


Pushya is the Nakshatra in which Jupiter gets exalted. Its 
planetary ruler is Saturn and the combination of wisdom and discipline 
produces the highest fruits. It is said to be good for atl things except 
marriage. This is because of an ancient story. In this constellation, is 
found the stars of the Big Dipper said to be the seven sages who guided 
the destiny of mankind. They were all married but at some stage they 
suspected their wives of infidelity, later disproved, and sent them away 
becoming the six principal stars of Krittika Nakshatra, the Pleiades. Only 
Arundhati, the wife of Vasistha remained because her devotion to her 
husband was beyond question. She and her husband are the two stars 
very close to each other. This little story is the sages way of warning us 
that when the Moon is in this constellation, suspicions of infidelity can 
arise. See also the Moon 20. 


Jupiter rules three Nakshatras. The first, Punarvasu is ruled by 
Aditi (Sun 1 and 6), and has an energy of unboundedness. The second, 
Vishakha is ruled by Indra and Agni. It is a place of faithfulness. There is a 
related story of a lady who had made her choice for marriage but he was 
away for a very long time. She stood by her commitment even when 
approached by a Rishi. The Moon is debilitated right at the end of 


Jupiter, Brhaspati 247 


Vishakha, a point of great spiritual potential. Indra rules over the Pranas 
or vital airs of the body and Agni over the inner fire. Mastery of both gives 
complete control and this makes enlightenment possible. The third, 
PurvaBhadra has an energy of transcending. Therefore, al! three of 
Jupiter's Nakshatras have a powerful spiritual influence. Each is broken 
by a Rashi boundary between an air sign and a water sign. Find out more 
about this in the Chapter on Secrets of Vimshottari Dasha. 


% JERnatmreaateara aa: 


om pusyaragamanimandanamanditaya namah 


66. Adorned (Mandita) with decorations (Mandana) made of yellow 
sapphires (Pusyaraga mani). 


This is the gem considered best for enlivening the qualities of 
Jupiter. See Jupiter 55 for how to wear it. 


So PATA AA: 


om kaSapuspasamanabhaya namah 


67. Resembling (Samdnabha) Kasha flowers (Puspa). These are a certain 
yellow flower, which are preferred for the worship of Jupiter. 


$0 FAITARE Ta AA: 


om indradyamarasanghapaya namah 


68, The protector (Pa) of the collection (Sarigha) of the immortals (Amara) 
consisting of Indra and others (Adi - the Vedic gods). 


These gods personify the natural world. Indra is associated with 
lightening, Agni with fire, Vayu with wind and so forth. They could be said 
to be the collection of natural laws. He is the lord and protector of them. 
Indra has all the power and weapons; Jupiter or Brhaspati has the 
wisdom and the Vedic knowledge and, as this is more powerful, he is the 
leader or protector. 


248 Yoga of the Planets 


AGA MAASs ATA: 


om asamanabalaya namah 


69. Of unequalled (Asamana) power (Bala). 


There is no power greater than knowledge and there is no 
knowledge greater than the knowledge arising from Self-realization. (See 
also Sun 4) 


Ho Grareaiguradd aa: 


om sattvagunasampadvibhavasave namah 


70. Shining (Vibhdavasu) with the wealth (Sampad) of the quality of purity 
(Sattva Guna). 


Jupiter's cycle follows that of Rahu. During Rahu, one may face 
the darkness in various ways. One struggles for security and happiness. 
When the Jupiter cycle starts one thinks, “I should tidy up my life, quit my 
bad habits, etc.” This is the influence of Sattva. It as if the lights have gone 
on and one can see clearly. Tamas hides the light of truth and the Sattva 
planets led by Jupiter reveal it. 


Sattva is good but it is still of this world. As Lord Krishna says to 
Arjuna in the Bhagavad Gita (2.45), the great teaching on the battlefield, 
“Go beyond Sattva even; know that which is Truth itself’. There is Sat or 
pure being and Sattva, which is the quality of purity. From Sat, Sattva 
arises. Many think it is the other way around, that Sat comes from Sattva. 
However, without Sat, one cannot really understand what Sattva is and 
one ends up following lists of rules. This can cause much time to be spent 
fruitlessly, at least as far as realization of truth is concerned. One may 
benefit in other ways, 


As Vedic astrologers, we can see clearly the level of Sattva due to 
the birth chart and the planetary cycles and transits. When Sattva rises 
for us, we start to think, “Sattva is important”, and when Sattva is 
declining due to the planetary influences one makes another policy. Such 
is the world. Even some Gurus get deluded because the mind is always 
subject to these influences. Arjuna was a man of great Sattva but, in the 
face of a great crisis before the battle, it did not help. He was confused 
when he tried to apply his Sattvic ideas to the situation he faced. Lord 
Krishna guided him beyond this to true wisdom. 


Jupiter, Brhaspati 249 


So AUP TA: 


om bhisurabhistadaya namah 


71. He grants the blessing (Abhista) of lordship (Sura) over the earth 
(Bhu). 


Worldly power and position can come easily by the influence of 
Jupiter. Jupiter represents advisors. This name indicates that a person can 
rise to high position if well advised or fall from it if that advisor is lost. 
The advisor can be another person or the inner knowing. If we rely on 
our own knowing, then we should take care because a change in the 
planetary cycles can cause our clarity to fade. 


Many heads of state and government as well as many very 
wealthy people have consulted Jyotishis. {n one large country, the ruling 
party had consistently consulted one famous Jyotishi. After many years in 
power, for whatever reason, they neglected to do so and choose an 
election date on which they were certain to lose. After the elections, one 
of their spokesmen put out that the new government would soon fall. As 
the time of installation indicated longevity, | warned him that the new 
government would last. It stood for 10 years. 


go WAR AA: 
om bhirtyasase namah 


72, Exceedingly (Bharti) famous (Yasha). 


A good councilor can be very famous. From his guidance (Jupiter 
71), great fame can be acquired by others. The danger is that having 
attained a high position through good counsel, one starts to think that 
one’s status is all about one’s own competence. This then causes one to 
fail to respond when the tide turns against one. One may be given good 
advice but out of ego, one rejects it. The good advisors may be discarded. 
Sometimes the wise advisor is lost due to manipulation by enemies. If 
someone wants to usurp a ruler, first they have to cut the umbilical with 
the key advisor. This can be done by flattery and false rumours. The ego is 
everyone's Achilles heel. 


Leaders get terribly attached to their position. In many cases the 
organs of the state are used to keep that one person in his job even as the 
population suffers under the increasing carelessness of the rule. 
Astrologically we can understand this. A person gets high status due to 


250 Yoga of the Planets 


Raja (Royal) Yogas in their chart. These are activated at a particular time, 
peak and decline. This peak and decline occurs however clever the 
person is. How long the high status lasts depends on the nature of the 
Yoga and the height of the peak. It is not about their intelligence or 
courage, it is a product of some blessing acquired in the past as we see 
from these names. Like a gambler who has one big win early on and then 
gradually loses everything, it is easy for any successful person to get 
deluded. Those who retain greatness are those who cultivate noble 
qualities, keep the service of the people as their only interest and leave 
when the constitution requests or when their inner knowing or most 
trusted advisor indicates. For humanity to survive gracefully, every 
leader needs a genuinely wise Guru. 


do Quafaaquary aa: 


om punyavivardhanaya namah 


73. Increasing (Vivardhana) merit (Punya). 


Punya is merit. One can imagine that every thought, word and 
deed produces an influence that spreads out like light through the 
universe. When it strikes something, it bounces back. Hence, the effect of 
an act can keep coming back in smaller and larger ways over a very long 
time. This is the theory of karma. In the Bible, Jesus says, “do unto others 
as you would have them do unto you” (Sermon on the Mount, Luke 6:31 
and Mathew 7:12). Even Physics tells us that for every action, there is an 
equal and opposite reaction (Newton's Third Law). The positive influence 
we have created that is yet to return to us is Punya. One calls it positive 
because it can cause one to prosper and feel good, For example, if one is 
kind to others, then people will be kind to one. 


The ninth house and thus the fifth house (ninth from the ninth) 
in a Vedic chart show the extent of the Punya from the past. The past can 
mean one’s genetic inheritance or what is brought from one’s past lives. 
This gives us our luck in this life. Jupiter is said to be the Karaka or 
significator of both these houses. The previous house to the ninth, the 
eighth shows the lack of Punya or sin that one has brought to this life. It is 
also the house of the genitals, which is why so much fuss is made about 
sexuality. Sex and sin seem intertwined in the collective consciousness. 
The ninth is the house of establishment, religion and religious people. 
Thus, the source of their fall, the eighth, is generally secret liaisons. The 
eighth is also about other people’s money. That can also be a problem. 


Jupiter, Brhaspati 251 


do THT AA: 
om dharmartipaya namah 


74, The very embodiment (Rupa) of living in accordance with truth 
(Dharma). 


Dharma is what sustains life. It is also wisdom and that which 
brings it to awareness. That is why the Vedic culture is said to be the 
eternal Dharma. Truth is what sustains everything in the long run. The 
ninth house is the principal house of Dharma. The ninth house of the 
zodiac is Sagittarius, Jupiter’s strongest sign. That is why we expect our 
teachers and Gurus to embody very high values in their life. 


So WANA AA: 


om dhanadhyaksaya namah 


75. Presiding over (Adhyaksa) wealth or abundance (Dhana). 


Jupiter presides over the very principle of abundance. Other 
planets give wealth by his blessing so before we assume that wealth will 
come by virtue of some other Grahas, we have to look at the disposition of 
Jupiter. It helps to check the extent of the kindness and generosity 
inherent in the chart, both of which are indicated by Jupiter. Without 
these, any wealth gained will come from good deeds of a past life. Once 
that is exhausted, the wealth will disappear. 


To win the lottery or get any great luck, one needs a lot of Punya. 
That means one has to have made a massive donation in a previous life, 
perhaps giving up one’s life to save others. That Punya is then there to 
help one when needed. If one does not win the lottery, the luck will come 
in other ways. On the other hand, if one has negative karma because of 
taking advantage of others, one will keep losing money through lotteries 
and the like until the debt is cleared. It would be better to donate the 
money to a charity. If the money is spent helping others, we will clear our 
karmic debts faster. 


$ Faery AA: 


om dhanadaya namah 


76. Giving (Da) wealth(Dhana). 


252 Yoga of the Planets 


Dhana is what we hold dear and is a name of the second house in 
the Vedic chart. Some very wealthy people have Jupiter in the second but 
this alone does not guarantee wealth. Association with other planets will 
modify the effects. Also, Jupiter's generosity can lead us to forgo those 
dear things for a higher cause. This is true wherever Jupiter falls as every 
house represents people or things that may be dear. One example is when 
Jupiter is in the 7 house of marriage. Most people think this is a 
favourable indicator and it certainly makes the person look for a good 
and wise partner. However, if such a person is found the chance may be 
passed up for some noble reason. Jupiter in the first house makes other 
people see us as a mentor and come to us for help. Then we keep giving to 
them often to the detriment of our own health and even survival. We 
naturally fee! like a Guru on some level and we want to help but we 
should be aware of the whole situation. 


The ancient hymn of praise to the Divine Mother, the Lalita 
Sahasranama, says ‘Guru Murtih’ which means that She takes the form of 
the Guru. No little ego is ever the Guru, but anyone of us may be called 
upon to give something of wisdom and guidance by Her Grace. We may 
experience that others are better off if they follow our advice. However, it 
is good to be fully aware that this is just a gift given by God through us by 
Her sweet Will. [t may not happen in the future, Once we have lost our 
humility, that gift will certainly leave us. 


There was once a very great saint in North India, Swami 
Brahmananda Sarasvati. He had unimaginable power thanks to the depth 
of his surrender. A man from the locality often came to pay his respects 
and was very devoted. He was one of the close group of friends who were 
regular devotees, Let us call him Rajiv. One day the Guru said to him, “See 
that man by the gate, he is sick, heal him”. Rajiv protested that he knew 
nothing of medicine. Thrice the Guru repeated his instruction and thrice 
he objected. Then the Guru advised him to take some ash from the fire 
and give it. This Rajiv did and miraculously the man was cured. Time 
passed and Rajiv stopped coming to the Ashrama. 


After a while, one of his friends, worried about this, went to find 
him. He found that Rajiv had become a famous doctor and had a big 
queue at his surgery. When he went in the doctor would not see him, 
indeed pretended not to know him at all. Rajiv behaved as if he was afraid 
his friend might ask him for money, now that he had become wealthy. 
The man was amazed and reported this to the Guru. “How has this: 
happened?” he asked. “See the mist in the air in the early morning?” 
replied the Guru, “It fills the whole dome of the sky. One drop of that is 
like the amount of Divine Grace that has created this phenomenon (the 
success of Rajiv as a healer)”. From that moment, none of Rajiv's cures 


Jupiter, Brhaspati 253 


worked and he was soon driven from the town by a mob of angry 
patients. One morai of this is that greed or miserliness can undermine any 
good fortune. Jupiter's influence is the key for being generous. 


a c 
3 TAMAals AA: 
om dharmap4alanaya namah 


77, Protecting nourishing and maintaining (Palana) Dharma. 


He is one who lives according to Dharma and works to help 
others live likewise. This is why Jupiter represents judges and all those 
who set the moral standards for society. 


From studying the time a constitution comes into effect or a new 
dynasty begins, we can see how upright its leaders will be. Primarily, we 
have to study the position of Jupiter. This also applies to companies and 
other projects. 


do Gqaa aaa AA: 


om sarvavedarthatattvajfiaya namah 


78. Knowing (/fia) the essence (Tattva) of the purpose (Artha) of all 
(Sarva) the Vedas. 


The Vedic Rishis are those who discerned the Veda, the 
primordial sounds of nature. The Maharishis (Great Rishis) know the 
essence of it like one who extracts the cream or butter from the milk. 
They have the capacity to teach so they are the Gurus. Jupiter represents 
them. 


For instance, the knowledge of Yoga was derived from the Veda 
by Maharishi Patafijali. It is not stated explicitly in the Veda but is 
contained within it in a concentrated form and so the Yoga Sutras were 
accepted as part of the Vedic literature. The same is true for the texts of 
Jyotisha and Ayurveda as well as Vastu or Sthapatya Veda, the science of 
architecture, and Gandharva Veda or the science of music. 


It is interesting that those with Jupiter in the fourth house in the 
Vedic chart are said to bring some new insights into the Vedic field. From 
the fourth, Jupiter aspects the tenth house or the area which shows what 
we are seen to do in the world. 


254 Yoga of the Planets 


3 aarafeann aA: 


om sarvapadvinivarakaya namah 


79. Removing or warding off (Vinivdraka) all defects and miseries (Sarva 
Apad). 


This is the effect of the aspect and conjunction of Jupiter. It is 
why we feel soothed by meeting those who embody the energy of Jupiter. 
When Jupiter conjoins or disposits ‘malefics’ like Mars, Saturn, Rahu and 
Ketu, it transfers some of its goodness to them. As a result, their cycles 
can then give many blessings while Jupiter’s cycles are not so smooth. 


do TAA AA: 


om sarvapapaprasamanaya namah 


80. Quietening (Prashamana) all wilful tendencies (Sarva Papa). 


Papa is usually translated as sinful. The Papa houses in a birth 
chart are three, six, and eleven. Three and eleven are about willfulness, 
the third being the place of our desire and will and the eleventh, what we 
seek in the hope of fulfilment. The sixth is the place of mental vices. The 
word Prashamana suggests a calming. If a person is felt to be too selfish 
then we can encourage them to relax inside themselves. This will reduce 
their stress level and this, in itself, will help them achieve their goals. 


In the Yoga Sutras (2.35) it says that all violent tendencies cease 
in the presence of one who has no violence inside them and is thus 
established in the self: ‘ahimsdapratisthayam tatsannidhau vairatyagah’. 
Ahirnsa means that there is no roughness in the internal processes, which 
really means that there is no tightness in the heart. If we feel our heart is 
closed, let us pray for help. Sooner or later our prayer will be answered. 
This act itself softens and opens. 


do CAAA AA: 

om svamatanugatamaraya namah 

81. The divine powers (Amara) are following (Anugata) his guidance, his 
principles of life (Sva Mata). 


Amara means deathless and refers to the universal laws of 
nature. They follow what he thinks fit. Sva points to the real director of 


Jupiter, Brhaspati 255 


natural law, the Self. This is said of Jupiter because he has identified with 
That through his Self-realization. The Cosmic Will directs everything. 
Particular beings act as the agents. 


do ASV AA: 


om rgvedaparagaya namah 


82. Going beyond (Paraga) the highest exposition of worldly knowledge. 


One meaning is that he is the master of the Rig Veda or the 
highest knowledge of natural and spiritual law. 


The name can also be taken as speaking of a knowledge that 
exceeds even the Veda or takes us beyond that (Vedanta), so nothing of 
this world is left in our awareness when washed with that Grace. In that 
state, there is no bondage. The greatest house of bondage, astrologically, 
is the twelfth. This equates with Pisces and is therefore controlled by 
Jupiter, which rules Pisces. That is why he can bring bondage to an end. 
However, Jupiter can also give worldly success, which multiplies 
bondage. ft depends what we seek from him, 


ANIMA ARAd aA: 


om rksarasimargapracaravate namah 


83. Ranging through (Prac@ravan) the pathway (Marga) of the signs 
(Rdsis) and the Nakshatras (rksa), the stars of the zodiac. 


This name in various forms appears for every Graha. It is worth 
noting that both the signs and constellations are specifically mentioned. 
Jupiter spends about one year in each sign and 40 days in each Nakshatra 
Pada (quarter) or Navamsha. Religious practices are typically maintained 
for either a year or 40 days. The Nakshatras are said to be more related to 
the mind and are lorded by the Moon. The Navamshas themselves are 
connected to the soul. The signs (Rashis} are more related to the physical 
and are lorded by the Sun. From this we can infer that the 40 day 
practices will help us psychologically and even on a soul level but to 
change the outer manifestation of our life, the practice needs to be 
maintained for at least a year. Both are important and it depends on the 
actual circumstances. 


256 Yoga of the Planets 


% Galdeala FH: 


om sadanandaya namah 


84. Ever blissful (Sada Ananda). 


Despite moving through all the different places, some favourable 
and some not, he is always blissful. If we are not always blissful, we have 
not attained to the state described here. Bliss and happiness are not the 
same. It is actually possible to experience sadness as blissful. 


These last two names make it clear that happiness is not atall to 
do with being ‘in the right place or time’. That is, at best, the source of a 
moment of pleasure followed quickly by its loss. Astrologers are often 
asked about right place and time and they can help us enjoy our full 
potentia! but, at the end of the day, that is transient and cannot give rise 
to bliss. 


It is worth setting one’s sights on that eternal bliss which is one’s 
own nature. The secret is in relaxing fully and that cannot happen as long 
as one is concerned about time and place. For practical matters, however, 
time and place are very important. All the scriptures advise to ‘Get in the 
company of the wise’ and follow a good routine. It also helps to 
understand the planetary influences so one is not confused by the 
changes one faces. In time, all concerns will fade away by themselves. 


$0 AARARIS Aa: 


om satyasanghaya namah 


85. Associated (Sangha) with truth (Satya). 


If we are to progress spiritually and morally, the greatest aid is 
association with Truth. We do that by meditation, prayer and by 
associating with those who have an equal or greater embodiment of that 
Pure Awareness than us. This is called Satsangha. Other than resting in 
the state of Pure Consciousness, the best form is being in the presence of 
the enlightened. 


It is important to avoid people who are dishonest, cruel, or have 
destructive habits. A person with any addiction should avoid others with 
that weakness unless one has taken a mentoring role for helping them 
and they want to be helped. 


Jupiter, Brhaspati 257 


do AAS AA: 


om satyasankalpamanasaya namah 


86. Having a mind (Mdnasa) whose intentions (Sankalpa) are truthful 
(Satya). 


These are the people we want to associate with because their 
good qualities will encourage ours. 


Wap AS AA: 


om sarvagamajfiaya namah 


87. Knowing (Jia) all (Sarva) the sacred texts and sciences (Agama). 


In the great epic Ramayana, it is said that the demon Ravana had 
mastered all the sacred arts and sciences. However, he had not acquired 
total knowledge because his demonic nature prevented him from 
attaining the Vedantic knowledge, the knowledge of the Self. To acquire 
that he would have had to give up all egotism. 


It is said that he realized this and wondered how he could 
overcome this difficulty. Finally he thought that if God struck him in the 
heart with an arrow, he would get the fina! liberation that his incarnation 
prevented. But God, he thought, is all merciful, so how could he be so 
enraged? Then he struck upon the idea of stealing God's wife. Even after 
he stole Sita, Lord Rama’s wife, the Lord repeatedly offered to forgive him 
if he returned her. Naturally he refused. From one view, it was because of 
his pride but the ‘secret’ version of the story is that he fully wished to be 
killed by Rama. People are not demons but our selfishness is our obstacle. 
One can pray for true devotion and one may also receive Grace. Prayers 
do not go unanswered if one shows enough persistence. 


4 Adsila AA: 
om sarvajiiaya namah 
88. All-knowing (Sarva Jia). 


This name gives rise to that state of all knowingness if there is no 
concern about having it. This is the ultimate Koan or Zen riddle. This 


258 Yoga of the Planets 


name, following the last (Jupiter 87), takes our attention from knowing 
everything to being all-knowingness itself. 


4 Qaacredate aa: 


om sarvavedantavide namah 


89. Having the complete knowledge (Sarva Vid) of Vedanta. 


Vedanta is literally the end of the Veda. It is the final destination 
of all streams of knowledge. As such it is not a subject, it has no 
information about anything, it is truth itself. The texts of Vedanta just hint 
at the Truth because it cannot be described directly. One can know It by 
being It and in no other way. 


% TATA AA: 


om brahmaputraya namah 


90. The son (Putra) of Brahma. 


Brahma is the one, self-existent Spirit and Brahma is the creator 
himself and he manifests the knowledge. These are different grammatical 
forms of the same word. Out of Brahma, Brahma arose. From the One, 
taking the forms of Shiva and Shakti, the Veda expresses as the whole 
universe through the agency of Brahma. 


A similar concept is found in the Bible and the Torah. Jupiter 
represents the exposition of knowledge and is thus born of the mind of 
Brahma at the beginning of creation. The principle of the Guru is born out 
of truth and not from any womb. That is why the personification of truth 
is scarcely to be considered as an ordinary human being. In so far as they 
are living what is true in all of us, they are the sons of Brahma or 
Brahman, the great totality of the manifest and unmanifest. 


Jo STEOISTS AH: 
om brahmanesaya namah 


91. The lord (/sha) of the knowers of Brahman. 


A Braéhmana is not a member of a particular Hindu caste but one 
who has completely identified with the supreme wholeness. Even 


Jupiter, Brhaspati 259 


amongst the Brahmanas, Jupiter is the governor. He represents complete 
knowledge and that knowledge itself is the lord of the knowers of 
Brahman. It certainly does not refer to any one ego. The one who 
breathed out the Veda and created the whole universe is said to be 
‘Nirmame’, meaning “devoid of the sense of ‘me’ and ‘mine” (Shiva 
Mahdpurdna, Rudra Samhita I). 


A strong jupiter can make someone the best of the Brahmins. 
One who follows the professions of Jupiter is a Brahmin by their work. If 
they are the knower of the Self, then only they become a Brahmana. They 
are the ones to be given gifts and devout respect. No one can exactly 
know another's inner state but these names of jupiter give many insights 
into how that state can be understood. 


do Fafrananer 7a: 


om brahmavidyavisaradaya namah 


92. Expert (Visdrada) in the knowledge (Vidya) of Brahman. 


What is the knowledge of Brahman in this context? It is the 
ability to convey that state to others. There is something called 
Shaktipata. [t means conveying energy. The great masters convey 
Supreme Wholeness by their being. We may experience it noticing how 
they sit, the slightest movement of the body or hair, or hearing their 
words. Even by merely remembering them, we attain that state if we are 
ready for it That is real Shaktipata. 


o aaa 7A: 


om samanadhikanirmuktaya namah 


93, Beyond the consideration of (Nirmukta) greater (S@mana) or lesser 
(Adhika), being indifferent to wealth and material gain. 


This is the result of the eternal contentment or correlated with 
the natural condition of contentment referred to in the last name. It also 
means one possessed of uncommon capacity for conciliation. Both these 
meanings are excellent. Naturally, to the wise, everyone and everything 
are the same Divine Being incarnate. If any preference is shown it is the 
consequence of the karma of the body and can be seen through the chart. 
For example, if your Jupiter falls on the Moon of a Guru, you may feel 
connected to him or her if you meet. He or she may be disposed towards 


260 Yoga of the Planets 


you. In any case, the more devoted you are the greater the response 
though this is entirely unfathomable. 


do TacstaRaany aa: 


om sarvalokavasamvadaya namah 


94. Expressing (Vada) the wish ( Vasha) of all the worlds (Sarva Loka). 


He acts as our representative in the cosmic court. His 
expressions support whatever way we want to prosper. This means that 
whatever Jupiter is associated with in the Vedic chart will prosper. If he is 
in the first house of fame, our fame will grow. If he aspects out seventh 
house of marriage, that will also prove auspicious. If he looks at our tenth 
house of career, that will increase, Other Grahas may cause some 
disturbances but even these will be reduced. 


The use of the word Vada, speaking, makes it clear that it is not 
only the astrological influence that helps. His knowledge, starting from 
the Vedic mantras, can help us achieve our goals. The beneficial influence 
of Jupiter in the chart can be greatly enhanced through the use of 
mantras, rituals, generosity, sharing of knowledge and the study of the 
wisdom texts that we have access to. Indeed, any expression that uplifts 
life can help us. 


Another interpretation of this name is that his words are 
followed by all the worlds, Loka can have many interpretations. One is 
the different spheres of our life. Whatever the sphere, there is a natural 
inclination to follow the advice given by a person with a strong Jupiter. 
Other planets may get their way by seduction, threatening or other means 
but those who embody Jupiter inspire a confidence in others that causes 
them to follow what they are advised because they feel it is true or right. 


A AGG ead a: 


om sasurasuragandharvavanditaya namah 


95. Worshipped (Vandita) by the gods (Sura), demons (Asura) and the 
Gandharvas together (Sa). 


The Gandharvas are a semi-divine race of celestial singers, the 
Vedic angels. The use of the word together suggests that those who are 
often in conflict, who represent the most diverse tendencies in nature are 
brought into harmony by the wisdom and holiness that Jupiter 


Jupiter, Brhaspati 261 


represents. On some level, everyone and everything respond to a simple, 
unselfish expression of truth from a pure heart. We see this in the lives of 
the great saints. People of all religions come to see them and follow their 
guidance. All the pettiness and conflicts between various sects evaporate 
in the Divine presence. 


30 QAATST AH: 


om satyabhasanaya namah 


96. Speaking (Bhasana) truth (Satya). 


Whatever is uttered by one who is eternally content is true. This 
is not because it is literally factual but because it touches what is true in 
the listener, 


FRET AA: 
om brhaspataye namah 


97. The lord (Pati) of the great and the endlessly expanding (Brhas). 


Brhaspati is one of the most common names for Jupiter. He is the 
Guru of the gods who became the planet Jupiter (see Jupiter 13). This 
name, perhaps more than any other, expresses the expansion of 
consciousness to identify with the Cosmic Being. The sound &r has an 
expansive vibration. Meditating on this mantra is quite wonderful. We 
just need to study the proper pronunciation of 7. It is neither ‘ri’ nor ‘ru’, 
It is closer to ‘ry’ in jewelry. If one gets it right, then the effect of the 
mantra increases tremendously. [t is much better to work on this, 
pronouncing slowly, than rush into counting a certain number of 
repetitions. It is like the name ‘krsna’. Both are quite difficult to 
pronounce correctly. 


& Qa aH: 


om suracaryaya namah 


98. Teacher (Achdrya) of the gods (Sura). 


He educates even the highest powers of nature. This must be 
why, when a pure heart entertains a desire, the natural laws provide its 


262 Yoga of the Planets 


fulfilment. To some extent, this works for all of us but the greater the 
purity, the faster and more profound the response. 


There is a business of ‘get what you want’ seminars that preach 
taking advantage of this. They often say ‘Make lists of what you want and 
focus on it’. {t is a basic truth that whatever you focus on will begin to 
manifest. These seminars even take ideas from the Yoga Sitras: ‘focus on 
the item and then relax’. This also works because the universe is designed 
like that. However, the pure heart does not entertain selfish desires and 
therefore does not commit any mistakes or disturb the nature. 


There is an amusing and educative story about two young men 
who met a man who could cause any object they wanted to manifest. 
However, that object had to come from wherever it was. He summoned a 
tray of food from a London hotel. This duly appeared in the field in India. 
One of the young men worked at a shop selling sewing machines. They 
thought they would test the ‘haji’ and his mantra by summoning a sewing 
machine. It worked but the machine’s absence was discovered before it 
could be returned and the poor employee was found with the machine 
and arrested. The police did not believe his story!'!S Without invoking 
magic, there are many occasions where one person gains by other 
people's unwilling loss. Copyright violation is one small example. 


This name is repeated (Jupiter 33) indicating some additional 
meaning, In life there are both spiritual and worldly teachers. The 
repetition suggests he plays both roles. 


$ aalad aa: 
om dayavate namah 


99. Compassionate (Dayavan). 


The awareness of Pure Truth makes the heart full of compassion. 
This helps us distinguish truth from information that tends to harden the 
heart. 


BH BASINS AA: 


om subhalaksanaya namah 


15 Living with Himalayan Masters, Swami Rania. 


Jupiter, Brhaspati 263 


100. Indicating an auspicious (Shubha) omen or sign (Laksana). 


If Jupiter is prominent when an astrologer is asked a question, it 
indicates a harmonious result. When Jupiter is strong and influential in a 
chart and especially during a related planetary cycle, a person exhibits 
signs of good fortune and they themselves become a good omen for 
others. Many may gather around them. 


H SHAR FA: 


om lokatrayagurave namah 


101. The teacher (Guru) of the three ( Traya) worlds (Loka). 


The three worlds are the earthly plane, the heavens and the 
intermediate region. Or one could say that there is the Earth, the higher 
realms and the lower ones. In any case, this is the way the Vedic literature 
refers to the universe as a whole with all its levels, subtle, ordinary and 
gross. This also describes the levels of human existence, the sou! or Self, 
the mind and feelings, and the body, 


do AAC AR: 
om srimate namah 


102. Possessed of all auspiciousness (Shriman). 


0 Gag AA: 


om sarvagaya namah 


103. All pervading, omnipresent (Sarvaga). 


The supreme knowledge is the same and it is present 
everywhere at the origin of creation and pervading everything. The 
awareness that has completely identified with truth, is no longer localized 
and for the great saints, even the body can be found in many places. {love 
a certain story of Papaji, a leading disciple of Ramana Maharishi and a 
popular saint. Unfortunately, he is no longer with us in body. He was a 
manager of a company as he never accepted money from his disciples and 
had a family to support. However, he had a considerable following. A day 
was approaching when it is the custom in that area to honour the Guru. 


264 Yoga of the Planets 


Some man approached him and invited him to his house for lunch on that 
day. He accepted. Then another man made the same request and he felt 
uncomfortable to refuse so he indicated he would come. Then a third 
request came. Finding an impossible situation, he was delighted when his 
company called him away to another place on that day. 


When he returned the next day he met the first man. “Guruji”, he 
said, “We are so grateful that you graced us by your presence yesterday.” 
The same appreciation came from both the other families. As another 
saint, Swami Brahmdananda Sarasvati, said about such experiences, “It is 
the department of the Almighty, he takes care of it.” 


e La x 
$o Gaal frag aA: 
om sarvato vibhave namah 


104. Supreme in every direction (Sarvato). 


Vibhu also means the ether or space spread everywhere. Jupiter 
alone in the chart represents the element (Tattva) of space - Akasa. This 
and the last name (Jupiter 103) indicate that. Space supports sound, so 
Jupiter rules over hearing and speaking even though Mercury rules the 
intellectual ability to understand what is said. Jupiter rules over memory, 
which correlates with the scientific theory that memory is stored 
spatially by a pattern of neuronal connections. This kind of storage has 
been demonstrated in neural network computer simulations. 


» 
30 Ades AA: 
om satvesaya namah 


105. The lord of all (Sarva Isha). One can only rule where one’s influence 
can travel. Only the omnipresent can be lord of all. 


$ GaalqEra 7A: 


om sarvadatustaya namah 


106. Always (Sarvada) satisfied (Tusta). 


The ancient texts tell us that a Jyotishi, or Vedic Astrologer, is by 
nature content. When we, as students of Jyotisha, read charts we must 


Jupiter, Brhaspati 265 


gently leave aside all personal opinions which means all judgments. 
However much we think or feel something is right or wrong, that issue 
takes us out of a place of eternal contentment. Jupiter gives us the 
tendency to be content with whatever we have and whatever we see. 


An astrologer knows that the increasing or decreasing of 
anything is quite predictable from the planetary cycles (Dashas), the 
transits and the birth chart. What comes today is gone tomorrow so why 
struggle over it? When a tendency to create or work to acquire anything 
arises, that is what we do. When the cycle changes and those who have 
come leave and that which we have acquired departs, the same gratitude 
arises in the satisfied heart. It is in the flow of nature that the bliss is 
stirred by any movement. The only place of eternal contentment is living 
in that flow, which finds sweetness in every impulse, even the destruction 
of the body. It is not touched by death because it is eternal. 


 Gqaly 4A: 


om sarvadaya namah 


107. Giving (Da) everything (Sarva). 


jupiter can give any benefit. As it says in the Yoga Sitras (2.37), 
all jewels present themselves to the one established in the Self. That state 
cannot exhaust its treasury even though the gross body is always limited. 


Gage AA: 
om sarvapijitaya namah 


108, Worshipped (Pujita) by everyone and everything (Sarva). 


Every particle in the universe is attracted towards that Supreme 
Wholeness. The many that emerge from the One, seek to merge again 
with That. These are the two flows within nature, from the One to the 
many and back again and they coexist endlessly. 


Om tat sat 


266 Yoga of the Planets 


Venus, Shukra 


Venus, Shukra 267 


VENUS, SHUKRA 


So STA AA: 


om sukraya namah 


1, Salutations to the essence of any entity. 


Whatever is the finest, most refined or most precious of or in any 
animate or inanimate entity is Shukra. In the human body, Shukra is the 
ovum in the female and the semen in the male. Ayurveda calls these the 
finest products of metabolism. 


$o YA aH: 


om Sucaye namah 


2. Undefiled, pure. 


Translations of Shuchi include clean, pure, bright, white, 
resplendent, virtuous, pious, holy, purified, cleansed, hallowed, honest, 
upright, faithful, true, guileless, correct, accurate, innocent, living as a 
celibate for the sake of clarity of mind, and the sentiment of true love. 


Thus, Venus indicates purity and essence. Life and happiness 
depend on our essence being pure. Anything that disturbs purity or 
healthiness disturbs the external first. Then, if permitted, it goes deeper. 
When it reaches the deepest level, there is the danger of life-threatening 
disease. The ancient science of Ayurveda describes seven Dhatus or tissue 
levels from which the body is constructed. On the outer level there is the 
blood, which directly receives what we eat. The innermost element is 
called Shukra and is associated with the reproductive tissue. Ayurvedic 
purification treatments, such as Panchakarma, traditionally go in cycles of 
seven days because of these seven levels. Just as impurities penetrate 
through the seven levels, so purification has to work through to the 
Shukra level to really cleanse our whole system. 


Venus is exalted in Pisces. Being a sign of Jupiter, this is where 
love can turn into deep devotion. This placement of Venus, peaking at the 


268 Yoga of the Planets 


27 degree, transcends selfishness and opens the doors to a spirit of 
unconditional acceptance of all. At its best, it sees everything as the Grace 
of God. 


The sign of Virgo is the sixth sign of the zodiac and is thus. 
associated with the sixth house of health and healing. Venus is debilitated 
in Virgo. Virgo’s agenda is to seek the sacred, to locate the pure within the 
impure and thus move from the dross of the material towards the high 
state represented by Venus in Pisces. Even though Virgo feels strong 
desire, it can reject the indulgence of this as unsuited to its quest for 
purity. If it is to enjoy pleasure, then an appropriate space is sought which 
feels sacred. Thus, the flow of desire can be obstructed and Venus might 
appear weak but it is not defiled and can give powerful results if well 
placed in the chart. This is certainly true if Venus is with Mercury or 
either Mercury or Jupiter is strongly placed in an angle of the Vedic chart. 


$e BRYN AA: 


om subhagunaya namah 


3. Having auspicious (Shubha) qualities (Guna). One whose essence is 
pure displays many auspicious qualities. 


Se DRT A: 


om subhadaya namah 


4, Giving (Da) auspiciousness and all good (Shubha). 


Venus is said to be the greatest benefic in Maharishi Parashara’s 
great work. In another place, Jupiter is said to be the greatest. St all 
depends on the context. Jupiter helps one if one follows his rules, such as 
being truthful. Venus is less demanding but one must respect all the 
expressions of the feminine principle. 


% ZAGAT AA: 


om subhalaksanaya namah 


5. The very principle of auspiciousness and beneficience (Shubha). 


Venus, Shukra 269 


Laksana means both a principle and a mark or token. In South 
India, they have developed the science of Prashna or answering questions 
based on Laksana or indications. I was once sitting with a leading temple 
priest and I had found that his birth Nakshatra was different from what 
he had always understood. Given that the birth Nakshatra is of great 
importance and mentioned at the beginning of all religious rites, this was 
quite significant. At the moment | informed him, someone came up and 
put some beautiful red flowers on the table for us, the kind of flowers 
offered to the Goddess in his temple. Immediately, a local astrologer 
sitting with us said ‘Shubha Laksana’ - auspicious mark ~ showing that 
what had just been said must be true. 


An astrologer must always watch out for Laksanas, auspicious or 
otherwise. Those approaching astrologers should also pay attention. For 
example, if you meet an astrologer and think of asking a question, do so 
with some gift, even small. Many astrologers depend on what they are 
given when a question is asked to see whether the outcome will be 
favourable for the questioner. If nothing is offered, the answer is simple. 
If nothing is given, how can it indicate that one will be about to receive 
one’s desired object? This name can also mean an auspicious aim or 
ambition as well as an auspicious cause. 


So APTANA AA: 


om Sobhanaksaya namah 


6. Having effulgent knowledge or beautiful eyes. 


Shobana is shining, effulgent. Aksa is an eye, the axle of the 
chariot, the bead of a rosary or Japa Mala, or one’s knowledge. All of these 
meanings are relevant. People with a strong Venus may have beautiful 
eyes, classy vehicles, be fond of the use of Japa Mala and/or have brilliant 
knowledge in some area. 


Venus is like a beautiful eye or bead shining in the heavens. Of all 
the planets, Venus shines the brightest. We have known for some time 
that it has thick white clouds that reflect the sunlight but now we know 
that some of the mountains on Venus have a thin metatliccoating making 
them perfect reflectors. The sense here is that Venus is brightest at night. 
As the ruler over romance, this is very apt. In Vedic Astrology, Venus and 
the Sun are enemies. In the laws of Manu (Manu Smriti), it says that 
conjugal relations should be kept for the night. Somehow, under the Sun's 
eye, it seems less appropriate. 


270 Yoga of the Planets 


When someone has Venus and the Sun conjunct at the time of 
birth, the soul as indicated by the Sun is influenced by Venus and there 
are artistic and sensual tendencies, but at the same time a tension and 
wariness of the sensual may exist. The Sun, which is naturally single and 
beyond the senses, is always suspicious of Venus and can try to reject her 
influence. This can cause an inner conflict. It is often best for someone 
with a close Sun Venus conjunction to find another person with this 
combination. Then there can be a greater mutual understanding. 


The next name is from another list so can be omitted if reciting a 
108 name set. 


Fe BAA AA: 


om Subhagrahaya namah 


6b. An auspicious (Shubha) planet. 


Graha means to seize as in the English word ‘grasp’. We translate 
it as ‘planet’ but it is not a good translation. The Sanskrit gives us the real 
idea, that this intelligence acting as an agency of our self-created Karma - 
the effects of our past actions ~ pushes us in certain directions, Shubha 
means auspicious. Venus can give enjoyable and consonant results. 


All the Grahas of Vedic Astrology, aside from the Moon, fall into 
two camps, those that sustain life and its prosperity, and those that 
promote transformation. We call these groups benefics, Shubha, and 
malefics, Papa. The Shubha are considered auspicious because they help 
support and enhance the status quo. The Papa force change. Venus is an 
exception because it can play both roles. Most of the time it acts like the 
other benefics but, in its association with Pisces, it can join with Ketu and 
Saturn to promote spiritual liberation, a strongly transformative role. 


So SPITE AH: 


om subhravahaya namah 


7. Bearing (Vdha) a brilliant white radiance. 


Shubhra can also mean shining, beautiful and spotless in the 
sense of one whose reputation is unsullied. Those with a strong and 
unafflicted Venus, are both charismatic and of high reputation. This also 
warns us that afflictions to Venus can indicate the risk of damage to one's 
reputation, like a politician being caught having an affair. Venus is very 


Venus, Shukra 271 


delicate and so it is quite rare that it is entirely unaffticted. Hence the 
popularity of the saying, ‘People in glass houses should not throw stones.’ 


What is meant by affliction? This can get more complicated but 
the typical case is when Venus is conjoined with another planet, 
particularly Mars, Saturn, Rahu or Ketu. Each of these combinations can 
give certain abilities but can also cause some complexities in those areas 
that these names describe. Relationships, especially, may face difficulties. 


As Venus is so prone to affliction, it is most valuable to try to 
remedy Venus. This mantra like the others in this list, could help. If we 
meditate on its implications, we may become less willing to obscure our 
radiance with any dark acts, even thoughts. There is a wonderful! passage 
in the Holy Bible, Matthew 5:21-22 - “Ye have heard that it was said by 
them of old time, ‘Thou shalt not kill; and whosoever shall kill shall be in 
danger of the judgment. But | say unto you, that whosoever is angry with 
his brother shall be in danger of the judgment.” The clear point here is that 
harbouring anger inside is a crime just like committing a terrible act. 


After all, whatever one feels inside, projects outside and 
influences the world. Part of this is that one is less kind and gracious 
when one is angry, even when one does not explicitly say angry things. 
Part of it is that anger, like all emotions radiates out from the brain and 
others around pick it up. We know nature is influenced because pets and 
other animals are clearly affected by the moods of people. Some say, even 
plants are affected. Because emotion radiates, many people together 
share their mood and amplify it for good or otherwise. 


Anger is like fire. Love and friendliness are like water. The two 
elements are not friends. Fighting wears away and ultimately destroys 
relationships. If Mars is strong in one, then fighting comes easily. If Venus 
is strong, then one has a more watery tendency. One loves to love. Life is 
full of the dance between these two. Mars promotes career while Venus 
strengthens the home. Life requires balance and these mantras are one of 
the gifts of the ancients to help us promote balance. 


Vaha means bearing and also a vehicle. Venus rules over vehicies 
and indicates especially the more luxurious as indicated by Shubhra - 
beautiful, splendid and shining. 


Ho YSCHSHARANTG TA: 


om suddhasphatikabhasvaraya namah 


8. Shining (Bhdsvara) with or like pure (Shuddha) crystal (Sphatika). 


272 Yoga of the Planets 


The gem for Venus is the diamond due to its sparkling beauty 
and costliness but pure crystal is another suitable gem. It is said that 
wearing a crystal necklace can help keep one’s purity. It is more than 
simply an example of purity. Thus one should avoid crystals with 
blemishes. 


If one has many negative thoughts, after some time one’s crystal 
may need replacing as it absorbs one’s vibrations. If one can get a crystal 
Mala or rosary blessed by an enlightened or pure person, especially a 
woman, then this is very fortunate. 


go Fada AA: 


om dinartiharakaya namah 


9. Destroying (Haraka) the misery (Arti) of poverty (Dina). 


Venus can bring much good luck and wealth without really trying 
for it. Venus is not fond of labour so it will not be rewarding effort. Venus 
gives charisma and this is a kind of beauty, Anything beautiful commands 
a high price but one should be aware that when one takes money for 
beauty, the beauty has to be given away. True beauty comes from Jupiter 
and the Moon, both of which are Sattvic planets while Venus is Rajasic. 
Sattvic means naturally fulfilled, not seeking gratification, while Rajasic 
means constantly and endlessly seeking it. Thus the Grahas that make 
one go looking for satisfaction are incapable of giving it to one. The Rajas 
planets are Venus, who causes one to seek sensory pleasure, and Mercury 
(Budha), who runs after money as well as intellectual knowledge. Both 
make promises regarding fulfilment but neither have the capacity to 
deliver, After the Rajas subsides and one’s mind settles, unless one falls 
asleep (Tamasic, dullness), fulfilment can arise. This simple truth of 
Jyotisha helps one see that the great driving force of worldly activities is 
an empty shell apparently offering a lot but delivering little. 


Venus with Rahu can indicate issues related to chastity. Of 
caurse, this does not mean that everyone with this in his or her birth 
chart behaves like this. Such action depletes beauty. Even if it brings 
wealth in the short term, later it brings trouble. It is the purity of Venus, 
which is the favour of the Goddess, that brings useful wealth as well as 
protection. That is why, in the ancient cultures of India and China, 
destroying the purity of a person was a strategy of war. In China they 
would desecrate the graves of the ancestors. In ancient India, the 
favourite means was seduction of the wife. Venus signifies spouse but 
also all that pertains to birth and rebirth and hence the ancestral graves. 


Venus, Shukra 273 


Anything that causes an inauspicious omen is an affliction to Venus. Such 
things can be prevented by very serious worship of the Goddess besides 
ordinary precautions. 


it is very interesting to consider Venus in its own signs as well as 
in Pisces, its sign of exaltation. Venus is exalted in Jupiter's sign at the end 
of the 12 signs. This gives us the clue that it is the purity of life that brings 
final emancipation or true enlightenment and that purity comes from 
loveliness being guided by wisdom (Jupiter). Exalted Venus is not about 
being a great artist as itcan be when the planet is in its own sign. Nor is it 
about wealth or any of the other material benefits that the world runs 
after her for. 


om daityagurave namah 


10. The Guru of the demons (Daitya). 


Venus, except when it is exalted, rules over the wisdom of the 
world. Venus is as much of a great savant as Jupiter. In the Vedic stories, 
both Brhaspati (Jupiter) and Shukra (Venus) are great enlightened and 
immortal souls. Brhaspati became the Guru of the divine powers while 
the creator appointed Shukra to be the Guru of the demonic elements. 
Shukra is the son of Bhrigu, the great Vedic Rishi or seer. His story is 
found in the Yoga Vasistha, one of the greatest of the Vedantic texts. For a 
while Bhrigu lost his son because, deep in contemplation, Shukra 
followed a celestial nymph to the heavens and became lost in romancing 
her disconnected from his earthly body. Eventually, exhausted, he fell 
down and passed through many different bodies until being reborn as a 
yogi by the Ganges. 


Bhrigu, who was also meditating, came out of his inward state to 
find his son's body lying dead. At this he became upset and threatened to 
curse Kala, time personified, the god of death. This shows how even the 
wise can be deluded. Kala calmed him and showed him where his son was 
and all the lives through which he had passed. They were reunited and 
Shukra returned to his old body, regenerating it. Kala blessed Shukra and 
told him he would come to be the perpetual! preceptor of the Daityas, 
which we usually translate as demons. 


Mostly, those with demonic tendencies have no interest in 
advice. Selfishness is demonic. The selfish go for advice when they want 
something that they cannot simply take, otherwise they will not listen. So 


274 Yoga of the Planets 


Shukracharya (Acharya = teacher) only teaches when approached. The 
gods and the demons are always fighting. The gods drink the Soma, the 
nectar of immortality and remain immortal. For more on Soma, see the 
chapter on the Moon. The demons are killed in the war so an appeal is 
made to Shukra who uses a special remedy to restore them to life. 


This is just the cycle of birth, death and rebirth. We die but 
because we are still trying to be something or to know, possess or do 
something, we are given another body. This is the gift of Shukra. Shukra, 
turned outward or expressed in the service of self-interest, leads to the 
cycle of life and rebirth. Refined Shukra, such as Shukra under the 
influence of Jupiter (exemplified by the exaltation of Venus in Pisces, 
fupiter’s sign), cultivates Soma and leads towards divinity. 


Similarly, Shukra rules over the finest substance in the body, the 
reproductive tissue and the very essence of the body that holds 
everything together. Venus, in the sixth house or afflicted can indicate 
some problems here and help should be taken of Ayurveda to strengthen 
the Shukra Dhatu (the finest tissue level). Out of the Shukra Dhatu 
develops Ojas, the finest element in the material field, which is the 
physical correlate of Soma. As Ojas increases in someone, his or her face 
shines. Gradually the whole body starts to glow. If this continues for a 
long time the whole system refines and the grosser elements gradually 
become transformed into their finer subtle constituents. If this continues 
fOr a very long time, much longer than the current human life span, then 
the body would no longer be visible by the ordinary coarse eyesight and 
the human would become divine. 


What | have just described is relative physical immortality. This 
knowledge comes from the Vedas where it is described how Bhrigu, the 
father of Shukra, and other Rishis gradually became immortal through 
constantly ‘retiring’ from the gross to the subtle and back to the gross, 
integrating them. It is said that they went to heaven, a little before they 
were completely refined. The heavenly beings sensed something was 
wrong and used smell to detect them because smell is the characteristic 
of the earth element, the coarsest of the elements. 


Psychically, Moksha or enlightenment, brings the opening of a 
subtle flow of Soma that gradually transforms the body while rendering 
the consciousness immortal — that is the person knows that the essence of 
consciousness is unchanging and that knowing or consciousness remains 
throughout waking, dreaming and sleeping. This is the fourth state or 
Turlya, literally ‘the fourth’ in Sanskrit, that which transcends all change 
and is thus immortal. 


Venus, Shukra 275 


When one physically dies, one enters into the Jight on whatever 
level one has attained. When Moksha dawns, the same thing happens ona 
very high level. The seed of consciousness, the Shakti rises up the subtle 
channel of Susumna in the spine and, reaching the crown, merges in the 
infinite light. Thus one starts to enjoy the blessed state of the divine 
heings and the demonic cycle of birth and death ends. 


de carhtafeeara aa: 


om devabhivanditaya namah 


11. Intensely worshipped (Abhivandita) by the gods (Deva). 


One might wonder why the Guru of the demons is worshipped by 
the gods but in the light of what we have just discussed, this is easy to 
understand. The divine ones are constantly meditating on that most 
refined essence of everything, which Shukra represents at its highest. 
Deva is that which illuminates and thus the Devas are intrinsic to the 
process of experience. Shukra or Venus rules over the processes of 
perception. 


Unless one perceives and experiences, the purpose of the Devas 
is not fulfilled. That is why even the gods are not free of desire. The 
notion of unrestricted indulgence in heaven, found in various religions, 
arises from this. On the subtlest level, where the Devas exist, there are no 
obstructions to perception and experience. To reach that place, the purity 
of the senses has to be profoundly cultivated. 


So FIAT TA: 


om kavyasaktaya namah 


12. Having unobstructed (Asakta) wisdom (Kavya). 


Kavya is also intelligence and prophetic inspiration. It is poesy 
and also happiness and welfare. Asakta either means fondness (asakta) 
for wisdom or that he can work without attachment (asakta) to his 
accomplishments. This mental state means there is no limit to his wisdom 
and insight. 


276 Yoga of the Planets 


30 HIATT AA: 


om kamapalaya namah 


13. Protecting (Pala) the cupid or the energy of desire (Kama). 


Also, the one who shepherds the desires. This tells us that Venus 
represents desire and shows all about love and enjoyment in a horoscope. 
Venus manages and directs our desires. While one may have assumed 
that, here it is made explicit. Since this name appears between two names 
referring to the arts, it is clear that the arts, even in Vedic times, express 
the waves of desire in various delightful ways. Many people are familiar 
with the extraordinary sculptures found in many older Indian temples 
including various erotic scenes. It was not considered an offence against 
religion in those days. Rather, these sculptures were put on the outside 
walls of the temple. The ancients looked at the temple as a projection of 
the cosmos. God, absolute purity, abided at its heart, a little further out 
were lesser divinities representing the bureaucracy of the Cosmic 
Government and the outer wall represented the senses fully turned 
outwards and fully indulging in the material side of nature. Thus these 
carvings were part of a profound teaching and not a profanity. The layers 
of the temple represent all the places we can put our attention. 


While Venus, who is associated with love, and Jupiter, who is the 
guardian of religion, are not friends, they still have to coexist. If Jupiter 
exists within (the temple) as the symbol of God and Venus is found on the 
outer walls representing the worldly delights, then there is a realistic 
presentation of the natural state of life. We should be divine within and 
enjoying without; that would be both healthy and natural. However, 
when the pendulum swings too far one way, it has to swing back, so in the 
dark age we find ourselves born in, there is a clamour from both 
extremes making it quite difficult to live a natural and healthy life. 


do ad AH: 
om kavaye namah 


14. A poet (Kavi). 


Venus rules over poets, poesy and all romantic and harmonic 
expressions. Other meanings are given in another use of this name below 
(Venus 89). 


Venus, Shukra 277 


Jo BOTA AA: 


om kalyanadayakaya namah 


1S. Granting (Ddyaka) happiness, virtue, good fortune and agreeableness. 


Kalyana covers a multitude of goodness. Amongst all the 
blessings Venus can represent, surely the highest is pure love and 
affection. Who is not looking for or, at least, grateful for that? We can 
meditate on this mantra in the centre of the chest and it may help the 
heart open more and more. Do it without making any effort for any result. 
We can reach a state where the heart is perpetually resting in an ocean of 
love. This is an indescribable blessing. 


3 Asda AH: 


om bhadramirtaye namah 


16. Good, happy, prosperous, foremost, best, chief, favourable, propitious, 
kind, gracious, excellent, friendly, good, pleasant, enjoyable, lovely, 
beautiful, laudable, praiseworthy, beloved, dear. These are all related to 
the word Bhadra and Murti is the embodiment of that. 


If Venus is afflicted, this name could even indicate a tendency to 
be specious, or hypocritical. If one sees that one has these tendencies or 
lack the others mentioned above, one may suspect that Venus was 
afflicted at one’s birth. Such a situation can be corrected. This may 
require serious worship of the Mother but use of these mantras is a very 
good start. One should also find and regularly do a simple meditation so 
one gets used to a regular practice and reaching a deeply settled state. 


WaT AA: 


om bhadragunaya namah 


17. Of excellent qualities (Guna). 


All the meanings of Bhadra described in Venus 16 are Venus' 
qualities. Name 16 tells us that one with a strong Venus is naturally good, 
happy and so forth. Here it is saying that those qualities are not only 
inherent but also express in the lives of those with a strong and 
unaffticted Venus. 


278 Yoga of the Planets 


Una A: 
om bhargavaya namah 


18. The son of Bhrigu (Bhargava). (See Venus 10.) 


When we want him to teach and guide us, then this name is good 
as it reminds him of his father, so he looks upon us as his child. Whether 
we use he or she for Venus makes no difference at all. We are 
approaching an archetype, not a body. Love has no gender. 


3 ARIAS AA: 
om bhaktapalanaya namah 


19. One who nourishes and guards (Pa/ana) the devotee (Bhakta). 


What does it mean to be a devotee of Venus? It indicates one who 
worships the Goddess, who protects women and children, and who 
cultivates inner purity and the purity of the senses. Perhaps, in a 
particular person, one of these is more obviously expressed but they are 
inherent in each other. 


go UTE Aa: 


om bhogadaya namah 


20. Giving (De) various enjoyments. 


Bhoga is what we eat whether we take it in through the mouth or 
through the eyes, ears, etc. Sometimes we ferget that everything we 
experience, we eat. This expands the concept of food and therefore also 
food poisoning. In the Yoga Sutras (1.4), the great text of Yoga, Patafijali 
tells us that ‘what we see we become’. As we progress in meditation, this 
becomes increasingly true. When one’s senses are pure, one consumes 
whatever one sees so completely that we know it entirely. That is how 
saints can see everything about us, even past and future lives, from a 
glance. They are deeply anchored in bliss so they are not disturbed by 
what they see but the aspirant meditator should consider what one 
exposes oneself to. if one takes in something indigestible, one may have 
to vomit it out. 


This is how various thoughts and feelings, especially strong 
experiences come up in meditation. Therefore, one should not be worried 


Venus, Shukra 279 


if something intense arises. One has certainly experienced much garbage 
in the long extent of the past and, as they say in the computer field, 
‘garbage in, garbage out.’ If necessary, feel the physical sensations in the 
body and the mental experience and feelings will pass. This is how purity 
develops. There is no way other than allowing the trash to pass out. It is 
the same when doing physical cleansing like Panchakarma in Ayurveda. 
Some rough patches may occur. One should not allow this to deter one. At 
the same time, one should ease off our practices if the symptoms are 
affecting daily life. In any case, one should always have a competent 
mentor to guide one during any cleansing process. 


% YqqRAas AA: 


om bhuvanadhyaksaya namah 


21. Presiding over (Adhyaksa) the earth. 


Bhuvana is the earth and also the heaven, any world, being(s) or 
living creature(s), even mankind as a whole. This is how Venus can 
represent kings and political leaders especially through the sign Libra 
which is an active male sign that seeks social justice. Many of the great 
communist leaders gained power through the Venus in their chart and 
this is why they were opposed by the Sagittarian United States. 


Bhuvana is also water and the number 14. Venus’ two signs are 
Taurus (no, 2) and Libra (no. 7), 2 x 7 = 14. The 14 faced Rudraksha 
(special bead from the Rudraksha tree with 14 faces) is said to give 
insight. Venus is the planet of perception and therefore of insight. While 
Venus does not own any water sign, it gains its exaltation in the greatest 
water sign, Pisces, as this sign gives the highest insight. Water is 
associated with Sattva and fulfilment and this is why the planet of desire 
does not own a water sign. Its desire energy cannot give fulfilment 
because one desire is always followed by another. However, when one 
tires of desire and seeks freedom, Venus rises to support that state. 


That is why one cannot abuse freedom. If one tries, it shows that 
the desire energy is stil! lively and thus one is not truly free. That is why 
the highest knowledge can only be obtained by those who have no 
personal need of it. In that state, one is directed by the Highest Power to 
do whatever one has been born to do and one does it out of spontaneous 
obedience and destiny. That is why we only see true unselfishness in such 
persons. 


280 Yoga of the Planets 


o AHA HST AA: 


om bhuktimuktiphalapradaya namah 


22. Giving (Prada) the fruit (Pha/a) of enjoyment and liberation. 


This is a famous name of the Goddess. Note that Bhutti, 
enjoyment, is mentioned before Mukti, liberation. First she entertains 
one’s senses, then everything is taken away in order to give freedom 
(Mukti). Yet the fruit of that is pure sweetness. 


do Wear aA: 


om carusilaya namah 


23. Dear (Charu). 


Shila is the very principle of something, in this case dearness, 
Charu also means agreeable, esteemed, beautiful and elegant (see also 
Mercury 63). This is why Venus represents that which is dear to us, 
Wherever it falls, that shows what we love. There is a technique in Jaimini 
astrology which allows one to see each of the relationships that a person 
has. Those that are touched by Venus, are ones where a real energy of 
desire or longing can arise. However, other factors might make them 
unviable, On the other hand, a relationship might be good in every way 
except that it does not have the touch of Venus. Generally, in this case one 
will stay in that relationship but stil] yearn for those failed ones.. 


4 WSCA AA: 


om carurupaya namah 


24. Of beautiful (Charu) form (Ripa). 


Not only is Venus dear but also fascinating. We want to look at it 
again and again. This is the basis of devotion that Venus rules. One cannot 
be devoted unless one finds the object of one’s devotion fascinating. Like 
everything, devotion has different qualities. The Vedic view is to 
categorize these qualities into Sattva, Rajas and Tamas. We can think of 
Tamasic devotion as primarily a product of laziness or addiction. Rajasic 
devotion is where one sticks to something because one has calculated a 
net benefit; there is ‘something in it for me’. Obviously, neither of these 
have any real stability. 


Venus, Shukra 281 


Sattvic devotion is more internal, doing something or sticking to 
someone because it feels right or there is a sense of rightness about it 
regardless of any calculation or difficulty. Then there is a fourth kind, 
which could be called ‘transcendental’ where the attention is more and 
more drawn to one’s own Being. This has many stages from the sporadic 
to high states of divine ecstasy and a continuous state of awakening. 
Naturally, while many people have small tastes of this, only a few seem to 
get to drink their full of this Grace. [t is the longing to taste this that leads 
one to visit holy places and those fortunate ones who appear to have 
received this Grace, perhaps mixed with some hope for relief from 
suffering. It is said that the holy places became holy because such people 
lived or worshipped there once. 


Similarly, some people pray vut of habit, some out of hope to get 
something, while others wisely see prayer as a way of getting closer to 
that divine taste or touch. There are two well-known forms of prayer, 
repetition using a rosary or Mala and meditation or Dhyan. Dhyan is a 
Sanskrit term and I have heard it explained that the word Zen is derived 
from Dhyéan. It is a process which may start with repeating or focusing 
but Jets the mind flow towards silence. It is very striking that branches of 
all the great religions have adopted the use of a rosary, while the more 
advanced members typically turn towards meditation. Some Muslims, 
Christians, Hindus, Buddhists, Sikhs and others use rosaries on a daily 
basis. 


 Weaqeaaaay Aa: 


om carucandranibhananaya namah 


25. Beautiful (Charu) like (Nibhdnana) the Moon (Chandra). 


Both the Moon and Venus shine brilliantly with a whitish colour. 


jo fra aa: 


om nidhaye namah 


26. One endowed with good qualities. 


Literally a treasury (Nidhi) of them. 


282 Yoga of the Planets 


do PaRaaareaSa Aa: 


om nikhilasastrajfiaya namah 


27. Knower (Jia) of all (Nikhila) scriptures (Shastra). 


Knowledge of all the scriptures includes knowing all rules and all 
teachings of all arts and sciences, spiritual and material. Shukra (Venus) 
is a great Brahmin sage and this fully applies to him. [’m using the present 
tense because there is no record of his having died. Some of the ancient 
sages achieved physical immortality and Shukra was the one who had 
this knowledge. 


More importantly, this name like all the others indicates what to 
expect for any individual based on the energy of Venus at their time of 
birth. A strong Venus will likely make the person expert in at least one 
field. They may know multiple languages; master various instruments or 
art forms, or indeed other skills or fields of knowledge. 


Je AN AEINJOITA AA: 


om nitividyadhuramdharaya namah 


28, An expert in the knowledge (Vidya) of right conduct, policy and 
management (Niti). 


Literally carrying the burden of the science of morality, policy, 
management, and guidance. Dhuramdhara means bearing the yoke, fit to 
be harnessed, laden with good qualities or important duties, chief, head, 
foremost or prominent. It indicates a leader, one who bears 
responsibility. Venus represents the leading bureaucrats in the 
government as well as the leaders of the private sector, 


Wasa aA: 


om sarvalaksanasampannaya namah 


29. Possessed (Sampanna) of all auspicious marks (Sarva Laksana). 


In Vedic times, great importance was placed on auspicious marks 
on the body. Out of this came such studies as palmistry, face reading, etc. 
Someone is considered physically beautiful when the body parts are well- 
shaped and healthy. This is a lesser but instinctive expression of this 


Venus, Shukra 283 


name. Our built-in concept of beauty is often connected to fertility and 
Shukra is the ruler of that. 


: ¢ 
$o Gala Was AA: 
om sarvavagunavarjitaya namah 


30. Destroying (Varjita) all defects (Sarva Avaguna),. 


Avaguna is a defect or incompleteness in some quality. Venus is 
exalted at the end of Pisces, the last of the signs of the zodiac, indicating 
that his work is completed only when everything is completed. In the 
process of the 12 signs, we pass through all kinds of challenges and 
lessons. Each sign has its agenda and only after passing through and 
exhausting our fascination to each one can we reacha state of completion 
or fulfilment. While the other planets become exalted when some area of 
life is perfected, Venus requires every area (Sarva) to be fully refined. 


do GATT Rea Ta: 


om samanadhikanirmuktaya namah 


31. Having neither an equal or anyone greater. 


Samana is the idea of equality and Adhika is about eminence or 
superiority. Nirmukta is complete liberation from these concepts. For 
example, we can imagine this in the case of a great artist whose work is 
beyond comparison. It also points at a state where there is no concept of 
greater or lesser. This only exists in those who know Brahman, the Great. 
That Being is infinitely greater than anything else so it puts everything in 
its proper (tiny) perspective. It then becomes almost comical how 
engaged we become in the little issues of our individual life. 


One's deeply rooted survival instinct promotes selfish behaviour 
while Cosmic Consciousness, one’s true Self, is not the least concerned 
with such issues. This is the paradox of human life. Survival of the human 
species depends on a balance where each person takes care of their day- 
to-day needs while respecting the well-being of the whole. At this 
moment in time we are starting to see how we have slid dangerously far 
towards the ‘me-first’ part and this realization just might help us embrace 
the collective and planetary need. Seeing us struggling with little sign of 
success, the Divine is emanating a wave of wise teachers to help us 
elevate our consciousness and be better citizens. If one does not have a 


284 Yoga of the Planets 


Guru or enlightened mentor, please look out for one. If one is willing, 
someone will surely come one’s way. It is often said, ‘When the student is 
ready, the teacher appears.’ What helps one become ready is adopting 
some practice like repeating a simple mantra, such as those in this book. 
More complicated mantras need guidance from a qualified teacher. 


H UhSVAIGIS AA: 


om sakalagamaparagaya namah 


32. The master of all scriptures and sciences (Sakala Agama). 


Paraga literally means to go beyond so this name also indicates a 
brilliance that exceeds what is currently known or created. Venus is the 
Guru of the ‘Daityas’. They are, by the Vedic definition, those who believe 
that they are the body alone. As such, Venus is the storehouse of all 
worldly knowledge such as medicine, architecture, and the other arts and 
sciences. 


do RTA AA: 
om bhrgave namah 


33. The sage Bhrigu. 


Shukra (Venus) is said to be the son of sage Bhrigu, one of the 
great seers of the Rig Veda, and thus he is called Bhargava. This name 
shows that he is also everything that his father is, not different from him. 


Bhrigu is one fit to support, thus it is both the archetypal father 
who supports the family and the archetypal mother who bears the 
children and their equivalents on every Icevel of social structure. 
Wherever Venus is strong, life flourishes. That is why, when we look for 
life beyond our Earth, we look for water. Venus is considered a ‘water’ 
indicator. [t is amazing that water is in factso abundant everywhere we 
look in the cosmos. For life to arise, energy is also needed. While too 
much fire dries up water, a balance of it is required for life to evolve. 
Hence the dance between Venus and Mars astrologically. The universe is 
full of both water and energy sources but only in certain places is the 
right balance achieved. It is perhaps ironic that both planets Venus and 
Mars, in the recent epochs, have too much fire, including radiation, for life 
to survive on the surface. Venus has virtually no water. 


Venus, Shukra 285 


do ANTS Aa: 
om-bhogakaraya namah 


34. Causing (Kara) pleasure. 


The pleasure that comes from the eating of good food, conjugal 
relations, and other sensory experiences is Bhoga and Venus is the one 
whose agency brings these about. Thus, if Venus is not significantly 
afflicted by position or association at the time of birth or in transit, then 
his influence through his planetary cycle or Dasha and his influence by 
transit can be expected to cause such experiences. For example, when 
Venus, in transit, crosses over our Ascendant or Moon, there may be some 
passionate or loving experience. 


The ultimate Bhogi or indulger is Rahu who represents the 
demons, whose teacher is Venus. However, Rahu can be quite 
exploitative, while Venus is much more benign. The main issue with the 
influence of Venus is that it makes one want to enjoy and less inclined to 
labour. One can feel one’s ambition and focus on getting ahead is watered 
down and one may even drift into spending more and more time on 
seeking sensual joys. 


He WAG SAA Fa: 


om bhimisurap4élanatatparaya namah 


35. Eagerly engaged (Tatpara) in protecting (Palana) the rulers. 


Bhumisura are the ‘gods’ of the earth, which could mean the 
kings or great rulers and also the enlightened sages or even the deities 
that preside over rivers, mountains and so forth. Here we see that Venus 
is not just indulging the senses but protecting those who have to maintain 
the world in which we have sensory experiences as well as those who 
have risen above the senses but are still associated with a body, the truly 
wise ones. 


On the level of consciousness there is nothing to protect but the 
mortal aspect is guarded by Venus. This can be related to the nectar of life 
which sustains the body and is derived from the finest essence of the 
reproductive system. That essence keeps the immune system strong and 
thereby protects all the bodily functions which ensure the survival of the 
body. This is an inner meaning of this name. One implication is that 
severe diseases like auto-immune problems may benefit from the 


286 Yoga of the Planets 


Ayurvedic approach of strengthening the Shukra Dhatu. For this, one 
should consult an experienced Ayurvedic physician. 


Another version of this name is Bhtisura Paélana Tatpara, which 
has the same meaning. 


S (oN N 
30 Fale] AR: 
om manasvine namah 


36. The intelligent, creative and discriminating one (Manasvin). 


Literally, one who possesses a (good) mind and intellect. If a 
strong Venus influences factors like the fifth house in the Vedic chart that 
relate to intelligence and creativity, then the person may exhibit this kind 
of mental strength. 


% Alacla 4a: 


om manadaya namah 


37. Giving (Da) pride (Mana). 


Those born fortunate are typically proud of their beauty, wealth 
and glory. Thus, a strong Venus in the chart can give much pride while an 
afflicted Venus can cause self-esteem problems. Venus makes us worry 
over our physical appearance. If we think we are not physically attractive, 
then our pride is broken. The cure for this is not chocolate, for example, 
which just makes us feel better for a moment but to find something 
beyond the grip of Venus. Venus rotates on the axis of Pisces and Virgo. In 
Pisces we rest in the truth but may be careless about our diet leading us 
back towards Virgo where the sense of impurity or inadequacy leads to 
the search for purity and starts the track back towards Pisces. The state 
of rest is the state of satisfaction with ‘what is’, which is not to be found in 
any place on the zodiac. We have to find it at the core of our existence 
while doing whatever we have to do for maintaining our worldly 
existence. 


If one is very thin or fat and one longs to be different but cannot 
achieve that, then one is likely to have to take birth again for that 
experience. Thereby one learns that is also not ideal. Our genetics 
pressure us with the need to fulfill the genetic imperatives but these 
serve no essential purpose for the soul. The Soul simply is, it needs no 
companion since it exists the same in every being. It needs neither a 


Venus, Shukra 287 


special body nor any particular possessions because it already owns 
everything that is. Our essence is That, nothing more or less. Once That is 
realized then we are free. 


AIG AA: 
om manyaya namah 


38, The honoured one (Mdanya). One worthy of veneration, the highest 
respect. 


do Adar aa: 


om mayatitaya namah 


39. One who is beyond (Atita) illusion (Maya), 


If one is under the astrological rulership of Venus, one need not 
be lost in the web of the world. For the wise, to be blinded by the idea ‘1 
am the body’ is not natural, one can be a knower of reality. The body is 
just a projection of the Self. However, until that realization dawns 
spontaneously, we are seeking the intrinsic truth of this name. Meditating 
on this name may well help gradually over time. 


$0 AeTaara AA: 
om mahayaSase namah 


40. Very (Maha) famous ( Yasha). 


One of great renown, great glory. The greatest fame is achieved 
by those who have realized their intrinsic nature unless they chose to 
hide themselves away. Even then, awakening attracts the attention of the 
cosmic powers who then direct the life. 


H aonaaa Aa: 
om-bahprasarmaya namah 


41. One who is pleased (Prasanna) by gifts. 


288 Yoga of the Planets 


Bali is usually a food offering made to the deity. People ruled by 
Shukra and all women (since Venus is the significator for the female 
gender) are, in most cases, very appreciative of sincere gifts. The name 
also gives us a clue to the proper worship of the Graha Shukra. 


do WAI AA: 


om abhayadaya namah 


42. One who gives (Da) freedom from fear. (Abhaya) 


The child feels fearless in the presence of the mother and people 
worship the Mother Goddess or Holy Mother to be free of fear. Even the 
gods turn to Her when they are afraid and she destroys the demonical 
power that threatens them. She has her right palm up facing forward 
indicating that her devotees need fear nothing. As the Highest Power, no 
other power can contravene Her Grace. ft is written that the servants of 
Yama, the god of death, do not even record the actions of those who are 
worshipping the Goddess, even though it is their job. 


Halse Aa: 
om baline namah 


43. The powerful one (Balin). 


Venus is not weak but rather has great strength. It is noticeable 
that those holding great positions usually have very supportive spouses. 
That gives the strength to face the heavy load of responsibility. Desire, 
which Venus also signifies, is very powerful, few can resist it. 


SO AQUA AA: 

om satyaparakramaya namah 

44, One whose efforts (Pardkrama) are grounded in truth (Satya) or 
whose power is truth and purity. 


Another name that appears at this point is om bala parakramaya 
namak. One whose efforts are endowed with power. This is how a strong 
Venus can give great success. Venus has directional strength in the fourth 


Venus, Shukra 289 


house. This position can give fame easily as long as the rest of the chart 
permits. 


This name also tells us that Venus’ power lies in speaking the 
truth and acting on that basis. If, out of desire for something, one indulges 
in some degree of falsehood, one will become weak. That is why they say, 
one Jie leads to a 100 lies. One is quickly caught in the web of one’s own 
deceit and life is ruined. Lies come from desire, Venus, and fear, Rahu. 
Rahu is strong in Virgo where Venus is most weak. Virgo searches for 
truth. Whatever signs are strong in one’s chart, truth is the cure for fear. 
One who lives by truth has nothing to fear in this world or the next. 


$0 VATRIARCIT Aa: 


om bhavapasaparityagaya namah 


45. One who completely abandons (Paritydga) the bondage of worldly 
existence. 


Pasa is a noose. Bhava means worldly existence, birth, and also 
thoughts and emotions. The influence of Venus can appear to trap us in 
the material existence but this name indicates that this is not natural, or it 
is a mantra for countering this tendency. Abandoning Rahu - unbridled 
desire, egotism, manipulation and paranoia - and striving for that which 
is eternally true, the knowledge of the Self, rescues us. We can use this 
name when our thoughts and feelings are spiralling out of control and we 
need to find our centre. 


fo aSaeTaA aaa Aa: 


om balibandhavimocakaya namah 


46. One who is free or frees us (Vimocaka) from the strong fetters of this 
world. 


This name is like the previous. Bali can stand for the religious 
offerings made for worldly gain and also the taxes and such commitments 
that perpetuate worldly and social life. Bandha are the bonds that grip us 
and, as such, also stand for all our relatives and close friends in this 
world. 


This name and the previous one (Venus 45) give the clue that if 
we appear to be trapped in the material plane by the lower tendencies of 


290 Yoga of the Planets 


Venus, we can worship this higher aspect of Venus to rise higher. We 
should consider our position carefully. Do we really want freedom or are 
we trying to escape discomfort? In the latter case, we simply want a 
different version of the worldly tendencies. These mantras do not destroy 
the world and all its connections; they help cultivate a state of freedom 
and peace within it. 


% YAR Aq: 


om dhanasayaya namah 


47. The seat of wealth. 


The root Dhan means to run or move and Dhana means the race 
but also the prize acquired, hence the usual translation as wealth, 
especially moveable wealth. From the very earliest times, humanity has 
pursued trading and it is from trading that the wealth of persons and 
nations has arisen. Trading means travelling from place to place, hence 
the aptness of the use of this root. 


The root Ash has the sense of enjoying or eating as well as 
obtaining. Ashaya is to rest, which naturally follows acquisition and/or 
consumption. Venus indicates the place of wealth and, if well-placed, 
wealth and abundance is natural. Where there is wealth there is 
‘enjoying’ it, hence the high level of expenses it brings. This is only a 
problem if Venus is afflicted and expenditure exceeds the available 
resource. This is in contradistinction to Saturn who is often very sparing 
with expenses, whatever the level of wealth. 


3 TATA AA: 


om dhanadhyaksaya namah 


48. Presiding over (Adhyaksa) wealth (Dhana). 


One can take the position of Venus at the time of birth as an 
important indicator of the financial fortunes of the person or company. 
This name is shared with Jupiter (75). 


om karnbugrivaya namah 


Venus, Shukra 291 


49. Having a conch-like neck (Griva). 


The word Kambu can indicate a necklace of conch shells or, more 
normally, three lines on the neck indicative of good fortune. This is a 
compliment often given by poets to very beautiful auspicious people and 
appears in the praise of the Goddess 


30 ASTAUA AA: 


om kaladharaya namah 


50. Skilled in the arts (Kala). 


This is also a name of Lord Shiva because it can mean one who 
bears (Dhara) a digit of the Moon, the crescent Moon seen on the 
forehead of Lord Shiva indicating the enlightened condition where the 
wayward mind has been reduced to the least part (one sixteenth) that can 
sustain worldly experience without leading the senses astray. 


There are sixteen Kala or digits of the Moon, fifteen that are 
related to the Junar days between the New and Full Moons and the 
moment of the Full Moon. Kala can mean this moment, which represents 
the transcendental condition beyond the waxing and waning and hence 
also indicates the state of enlightenment. 


P ¢ 
30 FTOVGLA GAT Aq: 
om karunyarasasamptmaya namah 


51. Full (Sampdrna) of the essence (Rasa) of the mood of compassion 
(K@runya). Overflowing with the most sublime compassion. 


This is the clear sign of the ripening of devotion in the heart. 
Without devotion, no progress can be made in spiritual practice. In the 
Yoga Sitras (1.28) it advises repetition of the Holy Syllable Om and 
contemplation on its meaning, ‘tajjapastadarthabhavanam - tat japah tat 
artha bhavanam’, This is best done in the heart. This Sitra explains the 
inner mechanics of devotion and this mantra shows that Venus is the 
planet who gives the capacity for devotion. This is why Venus is exalted in 
Pisces, the feminine sign of Jupiter, which brings out its most spiritual 
qualities. 


292 Yoga of the Planets 


Jo FAORYAAAT AU: 
om kalyanagunavardhanaya namah 


52. Increasing ( Vardhana) the auspicious qualities (Guna), 


Kalydna has many meanings: blessed, happy, lucky, fortunate, 
agreeable, lovely, propitious, good and the like. Venus causes all these 
qualities to increase. However, if Venus is afflicted at the time of birth or 
transit, then these things become tenuous. This mantra can be a blessing. 


a‘ 
3 MAAN Aq: 
om svetambaraya namah 


53. Dressed in white clothes (Shveta Ambara). 


STATS ATA: 


om Svetavapuse namah 


54. Having a white body or form (Shveta Vapus). 


Both these names (Venus 53 and 54) indicate a state of purity 
and calmness. The three gunas or presiding qualities in creation are 
Sattva, purity, Rajas, passion or activity, and Tamas, inertia. It is said that 
the divine beings are predominantly Sattvic, humans and animals, Rajasic, 
and plants and minerals, Tamasic. 


Everything has a mix of the three and according to what we da 
and experience our mix can change. For example, we can tell our own mix 
from the foods we are attracted to. Fresh, nutritious food free from 
adulterations and full of life is Sattvic. Spicy, stimulating food is Rajasic 
while anything old and to any extent decayed or lifeless is Tamasic. !f you 
make grape juice from freshly picked grapes, you will notice that the life 
energy in it is amazing but lasts no more than half an hour. | have seen in 
a medical journal that cooked food starts to acquire bacteria after cooking 
is stopped and after just half an hour ina hot climate it has enough to give 
a small child diarrhea. 


The Vedic literature says that according to the mix we have in 
our consciousness when one dies, so is the next level of life that one 
enters. 


Venus, Shukra 293 


S AVstasiearaa Aa: 


om caturbhujasamanvitaya namah 


55. Having four hands. 


Bhuja can indicate the hand and thus the name could suggest that 
the deity Venus is four-armed like many deities though the association 
with the human sage Shukra usually makes the statues and paintings 
two-armed, 


Samanvita is both ‘endowed with’ and ‘following in a regular 
order’. Chatur Bhuja could have many meanings. One is a four sided 
(Chatur Bhuja) symbol. This could also point to the four angles (kendras) 
of an astrological chart. These four houses, 1, 4, 7, and 10 are considered 
the main markers of the worldly life of the person and his or her wealth. 
They represent health, property, spouse and status respectively. Venus is 
the natural significator of the house of marriage (7) but clearly is 
important for all the others. This could also indicate that our main desire 
focuses on self (1), mother and home (4), marriage (7) and work (10). 


It is also associated with enjoyment and this name could refer to 
the four aims of human life (or modes of life experience) Dharma, duty, 
Artha, wealth, Kama, sensory pleasure, and Moksha, liberation, or the 
four stages of human life, Brahmacharya, celibate student, Grhastha, 
householder, Vanaprastha, householder hermit, and Sannyasa, recluse. It 
could also indicate the four varnas or ‘castes’, which are four styles of 
living or experiencing, Brahmin, cultivating holiness and profound 
knowledge, Kshatriya, protecting the people, Vaishya, providing 
employment, trading and so forth, and Shudra, being employed. 

The word Samanvita in this name indicates that Venus 
represents the orderly functioning of these fourfold modes of life and 
their progression or rotation in our awareness. Again, we see how Venus 


as the Guru of the worldly life maintains it by upholding its natural 
organization. 


Oo AAO AA: 


om aksamaladharaya namah 


56. Wearing (Dhara) a necklace of seeds (Aksa Maia) such as from the 
Rudraksha tree. 


294 Yoga of the Planets 


Rudraksha Malas (string of beads) are famous in India and worn 
by the devotees of Lord Shiva. Those devoted to Lord Vishnu wear Malas 
made from the Tulsi or holy basil. In either case, it is a sign that the 
wearer is intent on divine devotion and practicing Japa in which the 
repetitions of the mantra are counted on the Mala or rosary. The practice 
of repeating the names of God while counting on a Maia crosses all 
religions and appears to be a root part of our natural religion before it is 
separated into different sects. 


The Aksha is also the eye or any organ of sense. Venus rules over 
sensory experience and vision in particular. The Akshamala can indicate 
the state where the consciousness is free of identification with the senses 
and has become a witness of the world. Then the senses are a mere 
garland to the soul. 


$ APaea A: 


om acintyaya namah 


57. Of peaceful mind. 


Achintya means free of thinking, completely calm, or it also 
means that he is beyond conception. The inconceivable greatness cannot 
be grasped by the ordinary mind. !n either case, this points to a liberated 
state of the soul, a true sage. 


o HAIR AA: 


om aksinagunabhasuraya namah 


58. Shining (Bhadsura) with indestructible perfection. 


Aksinaguna is the state of perfection of the soul pointed to by the 
previous names and here we see that once the individual merges with 
that, the mind, body and life that was associated with that individual now 
shines with the glory of the Supreme. 


30 AAAS AA: 


om naksatraganasaficaraya namah 


Venus, Shukra 295 


59. Touring through (Saficara) the collection (Gana) of constellations 
(Naksatra). 


This makes us pay special attention to the Nakshatra Venus is in 
at birth as well as where it falls every day. 


36 Faela AA: 


om nayadaya namah 


60. Bestowing (Da) leadership (Naya). 


Venus gives political and managerial skill and status. Many 
leaders have Venus as their ruling planet or related to their status. This 
shows that the quality of leadership depends on the purity of Venus. 


do ARG aa: 


om nitimargadaya namah 


61. Setting one (Da) on the right course (Marga). 


Niti can mean good conduct and thence the art of propriety, 
policy and management. From the position of Venus in a person’s chart 
we can see what kind of Jeader they are, what kind of example they set. 


do qqTaTa AH: 


om varsapradaya namah 


62. Showering (Prada) abundance. 


Varsa is the rainy season that bring good crops and hence food 
and wealth. It is also fertility, hence the state of Venus at birth can showif 
there will be any infertility problems. This applies to humans and 
everything else in nature. Varsa is the year, which really means the cycle 
of the seasons, so the people looked to Venus to see if they would eat and 
prosper during the coming 12 Moons. 


It is interesting that the Mayans and perhaps many other ancient 
cultures directed their main astronomical effort towards studying the 
movement of Venus. This may well have been their approach to 
correcting between the sidereal and tropical zodiacs. The position of the 


296 Yoga of the Planets 


Sun was inevitably measured with respect to the seasons while the Moon 
and planets can be seen directly against the stars. Reconciling these 
measurements was the key to constructing a chart and therefore engaged 
the ancient scientists. 


do SMa AA: 


om hrsikesaya namah 


63. The master of the senses. 


The Sanskrit root Hr means to take away evil or sin. Hrs means to 
be excited, even thrilled with rapture. Hrsi is joy, satisfaction and 
splendour. Hrsika is a sense organ and /sha is the master or lord. 
Combining these two gives Hrsikesha, the one who is the master of his 
sense organs, has control over the conjugal and other urges and is filled 
with joy. Venus is responsible for the conjugal urge and conjugal pleasure 
but it has its higher truth in this name. This could be a good mantra for 
those tormented by their hormones. Also found as Sun 31. 


do SARA: 


om klesanasakaraya namah 


64. The one who brings (Kara) an end to suffering. 


Klesha can mean pain and anguish as well as worldly 
preoccupation, Nasha means to destroy. It is a fitting commentary on the 
previous name. Gaining contro! over the senses by identification with 
their Lord, ends all suffering. 


H AdqY AA: 
om kavaye namah 


65. Highly intelligent. 


Kavi is also a sage and a poet. Since this name appears thrice for 
Venus, it suggests that several different meanings have to be given 
importance. Kavi comes from the root Kav, to describe, to praise, to 
compose or to picture. It emphasizes both the literary and visual artists 
who are more concerned with the feelings and the worldly experiences 


Venus, Shukra 297 


and the sage who sings the song Divine. It can also indicate a gifted leader 
as well as anyone of high intelligence and understanding. Venus signifies 
a minister in the planetary cabinet as well as the leading bureaucrats. 


do FaRaceera AH: 
om cintitarthapradaya namah 


66. Making thought fruitful. 


Chintita is thinking, reflection, consideration. Artha is purpose or 
aim. Prada gives. So the name literally means that Venus gives the result 
of what our mind dwells on. It is well said that whatever one dwells on is 
what one becomes. We can see the quality and power of anyone’s thought 
by studying the state of Venus in their chart. Especially Venus in Pisces, 
unafflicted, indicates a very pure and noble mind. 


do AAA AA: 


om santamataye namah 


67. Peaceful. Of peaceful intentions. 


Mati is the mind and its thoughts, intentions and beliefs. Shanta 
is tranquil and gentle. The mind is quiet and thinking can even fall still if 
not required. A noble mind is a peaceful mind. If the mind is agitated, one 
should understand that some impurity is afflicting it and seek to remedy 
this. Regular repetition of mantras and prayers can help. 


do Praag aa: 
om cittasamadhikrte namah 


68. Makes the mind even. 


This is a state of peace that transcends that referred to in the 
previous name. Samadhi is the balanced state of the intellect, a state of 
pure consciousness. Chitta is the mind, the intellect or the intention. This 
shows that Venus is capable of giving a completely pure mental state. 
Venus purifies the senses and thereby the mind. By refinement of 
experience the mind and intellect become purified and Samadhi arises. 
Mostly people think of Venus as causing the agitation of the mind due to 


298 Yova of the Planets 


desire. This shows the basic principle of fyotisha. The Graha that gives 
purity of consciousness also measures the degree of that purity from 
great distress to deep calmness and bliss. 


do saeantea aq: 


om adhivyadhiharaya namah 


69. Destroying (Hara) anxiety, misery, pain and sickness. 


Adhi is mental anxiety. Vyddhi is physical sickness. The !ast three 
names have shown the development of a pure state of consciousness and 
now we are told that this will put an end to all these troubles. 


do aaa AA: 


om bhirivikramaya namah 


70. Exceedingly (Bhuri) heroic (Vikrama). 


One who has developed pure consciousness is the true hero who 
has transcended selfishness. Venus is often associated with artists and 
some people may be surprised by this name but great artists are often 
heroic in nature. 


The mantras often refer to qualities which they can help us 
develop and understand. They tell us about the nature of the Graha, 
typically describing its highest gift. Venus is the giver of the most purified 
state of human life. The requirement (or Adhikara in Sanskrit) to reach 
this is great valour or heroism. Anyone who can be stopped by fear will 
never reach this state, the final step requires one to accept what appears 
to be total annihilation. Before that, all kinds of ‘demons’ may appear, 
inner and outer, and one will face fear. Fear is the Divine’s way ot 
protecting its highest gift. 


Jo QUTaIaaT AA: 


om punyadayakaya namalhi 


71. The giver (Ddyaka) of merit (Punya). 


Merit is the fruit of unselfish deeds that lead to good luck in the 
future. If someone wins the lottery then we can infer that in a previous 


Venus, Shukra 299 


life the person did some noble, kind and charitable deeds. Someone who 
survives a disaster when all others die also has great Punya. Punya is 
worth more in this world than anything else. It is very fortunate if we are 
inclined to good and kind deeds. Every act of cruelty, however small, will 
be re-visited on us. Every pain we inflict on another creature or even on 
the earth itself, unless paid for at the time, will be paid for by bodily pain 
that we have to bear later. 


This is the basis of the ancient Vedic principle of voluntarily 
undergoing some inconvenience whenever one knows one has done 
something hurtful. For example, once a year, people would do a two week 
fast to cover for all the small creatures that one has unknowingly killed 
directly or indirectly. This fast involved gradually reducing one’s food 
intake for a week and then gradually increasing it. This is all explained in 
the Manu Smriti, the oldest extant law book. 


Venus in a nata} chart shows where Punya, and hence luck, is 
primarily found. 


So RIGNS4 A: 


om puranapurusaya namah 


72. The ancient (Purdna) person (Purusa). 


That person is the One from which all this is made. This is a name 
of Lord Vishnu and clearly links Venus with Vishnu. Shukra is the son of 
Bhrigu and the family is traditionally associated with Vishnu. This 
indicates that practices such as chanting the Vishnu Sahasranama 
(thousand names) can be helpful for afflictions to Venus just as they are 
for Mercury. Normally, we associate Venus with Lakshmi, especially when 
strong and unafflicted, and Lakshmi is the consort of Lord Vishnu so there 
is no need to make any difference between them. 


$0 God AH: 
om piijyaya namah 
73. An honourable person (Péjya). 


If one ever wondered why great artists have so many fans, this is 
just a reflection of this. Venus is the giver of charisma. With a touch of 


300 Yoga of the Planets 


Rahu, it can be especially charismatic though a strong influence of Sattva 
is needed to stop delusion setting in. 


& Jexaicaaa aa: 


om puruhitadisannutaya namah 


74, Worshipped (Sannuta) by the gods, Indra and others (Puruhittadi), 


Even though the gods are the followers of Brhaspati (Jupiter) and 
Shukra is the Guru of their enemies, they worship him or that principle he 
represents. Venus signifies the Goddess, especially Lakshmi, the giver of 
wealth, victory and all good things. Venus also signifies the arts and love. 
The heavens of the gods are said to be filled with the most beautiful 
nymphs, expert in dancing and eroticism. These forms of the Goddess are 
naturally to be found where She is honoured and worshipped. The gods 
are certainly concerned with sustaining their power and glory and so 
they incessantly worship Her. Even those seeking only the highest truth 
and who have taken to the state of celibacy, come to honour and 
propitiate Her in the form of MahaLakshmi and are decorated with Her 
Grace. 


fo ASA AA: 


om ajeyaya namah 


75, Unconquered (Ajeya). Hence they say ‘Love conquers all’ 


30 fasta AA: 
om-vyitarataye namah 


76. Having his enemies subdued. 


The enemies (Ardti) are completely subjugated (Vijita). This can 
be understood in many ways and on many levels. In the Vedic Astrology 
chart, a weak Venus may indicate that the person is troubled by enemies. 


Arati is also the number six and as such indicates the six internal 
enemies such as lust and pride. It especially indicates meanness and envy. 
It can be taken as the ‘demons’ who frustrate the happiness of man. Even 
though an afflicted Shukra can indicate lust, a pure Venus can help us 


Venus, Shukra 301 


overcome all the vices. Thus, in almost all cases, remedies for Venus can 
help life take positive new directions. 


* APIzera aA: 


om vividhabharanojvalaya namah 


77. Shining (Ujvala) with various ornaments ( Vividha Bharana). 


The ornaments are made of precious materials like gold and 
jewels. Venus indicates a person's inclination to adornment including 
scents and makeup. In Vedic times and in many eras both women and 
men wore jewellry but, as Venus indicates women, it has always been 
natural for them to adorn themselves beautifully. 


Ho PragVManans AA: 


om kundapuspapratikasaya namah 


78. Shining like (Pratikasha) the Kunda flower (Puspa). 


The Kunda is Jasmine, an exceedingly fragrant and pretty flower, 
some well-known varieties of which open their blossoms at night, which 
is most apt. This also indicates that this flower can be used in the worship 
of Venus and the Goddess. 


So Aeaela AA: 
om-mandahasaya namah 


79. Laughing (Hdsa) gently (Manda). 


This indicates both the joy and the gentleness of those with an 
unafflicted Venus. It suggests modesty and refinement. 


$o eA AA: 


om mahamataye namah 


80. Possessed of greatness of mind (Mahamati). 


302 Yoga of the Planets 


Another version of this name is om muhdmanase namah with the 
same meaning. One cannot be great without a great mind except perhaps 
in the form of a large rock, for example, to which others with minds 
attribute greatness. The whole life is a projection of the mind. 


do TAASAATAMATA AA: 


om muktaphalasamanabhaya namah 


81. Resembling (Samdandbha) pearls (Muktdphala). 


Pearls are precious and have a subtlety in their beauty. In the 
next name (Venus 82), the word Mukti is used. Mukti and Mukta are both 
related to liberation and freedom while Mukta or Muktaphala is the pearl. 
The proximity of these names (81 and 82) suggests that an allusion to 
one, liberation, is made by referring to the other. Phalais fruit and it can 
also be interpreted both ways. The state of freedom shines like the pearl 
and is rare and precious like it. Muktaphala can mean camphor, which is 
also white. It burns easily and Venus as well as its main sign of Libra have 
a great capacity to shine or flare up. 


3 Alhals AA: 


om muktidaya namah 


82. Giving (Da) liberation. 


Few realize that Venus is the giver of Mukti or spiritual 
liberation. However, the fact that Venus is the last planet to be exalted as 
one traverses the zodiac from Aries to Pisces gives a clue. Venus is the 
giver of Mukti because it represents refinement. All spiritual evolution 
involves refinement. The refinement of the mind leads to Self-realization. 
After that, the senses are refined though the purification of the heart and 
the refinement of feeling. This leads to the vision of God and ultimately 
complete liberation. 


The first Graha to be exalted is the Sun, which represents the Self. 
The Sun is exalted in Aries. This tells us that knowing the Self is simply 
the first step and very far away from a pure heart and true 
enlightenment. However, the vision of the Self is so great, so 
overwhelming initially, that one can easily feel ‘this is it’, | am done. Here 
a Guru is needed to keep the aspirant on the track. Until the final line is 
crossed, egotism can claim the soul and a worse situation may arise than 


Venus, Shukra 303 


if no realization had taken place at all. The measure of greatness is the 
extent of humility. Not the humility of weakness but the humility of one 
who has seen the Great and utterly surrendered before it. 


d Afqagqa aH: 


om munisannutaya namah 


83. Worshipped (Sannuta) by the wise (Muni). 


do Tae AAS Ta AA: 


om ratnasimhasanaridhaya namah 


84, Stationed (Arddha) on a jewel (Ratna) encrusted lion seat 
(Simhasana). 


The Goddess is often depicted seated on a lion and many kings 
were said to be seated on a lion throne, alluding to the power their 
position gives over life and death. This throne is said to be a jewel or 
bejewelled, suggestive of vast wealth. A strong Venus offers both wealth 
and power. This is particularly true of Venus in the sign of Leo, in Sanskrit 
Simha, the lion. This is the sign of royalty and even though Venus is not 
considered a friend of the Sun, the ruler of Leo, Venus in Leo can give the 
greatest royal pleasures. Indeed, the Nakshatra or constellation that falls 
in the middle of Leo is ruled by Venus. 


A king who overindulges in sensory pleasures may lose his 
throne and hence the tension between the Sun and Venus. There is a 
wonderful story about Adi Shankaracharya (Shankara), the great Guru 
who restored the Vedic wisdom in India after it had been largely taken 
over by various sects and philosophies as well as a tendency to see the 
Vedas as purely for worldly gain. He promoted the highest wisdom of 
enlightenment known as Vedanta, literally the end of the Veda. He took to 
the life of a monk at an early age and travelled around the country 
debating with great scholars of different schools. In those days, if one lost 
a debate it was like losing a war. The losing scholars sometimes 
committed suicide, others became the victor’s followers. 


Eventually he came to the door of the greatest exponent of the 
Karma Kanda, the aspect of Vedic wisdom that is primarily concerned 
with worldly advancement including attaining high regions of heaven 
after this life. It was said that even the parrots near this house were heard 


304 Yoga of the Planets 


chanting the Vedas. Shankara entered the place and challenged the man. 
After several days, Shankara was victorious but his wife intervened and 
said, ‘as | am his half, you have not won until you have defeated me’. This 
lady, Uma Bharati, was thought to be an incarnation of Saraswati, the 
Goddess of wisdom. 


The two debated for several more days until] Uma Bharati started 
to ask him questions about intimate relations, aware of his inability to 
answer. Being a celibate he had no personal experience so he asked leave 
to do some research! This was agreed. Shankara went to a mountain with 
his disciples and asked them to protect his body. Having taken a vow of 
celibacy, he had to take up another body for this research. Leaving his 
body in a cave, his soul came across a king who had just died while out 
hunting. Reviving the king’s body he returned to the court where he 
instructed his ministers to handle the affairs of state and he retired to his 
harem. In the kingdom, the weather became very favourable and all kinds 
of luck came to the people. Weeks passed... 


The Guru had told his disciples he would return after a month. 
When he was very late returning, they began to worry and started to 
make enquiries. Hearing about the king who suddenly came back to life 
and the accompanying wave of good fortune in that place, they became 
sure they had located their master. Disguised as musicians they managed 
to gain entry to play before the king. Then they sang about a sage who 
took up the body of a king and immediately the Guru remembered 
himself and dropped the royal frame. Returning to the mountain, he 
found his body about to be burnt by some of his enemies who had found 
it unprotected. Reentering it, he jumped from the pyre! 


On returning to the debate, Uma Bharati gently chided him for 
going to so much trouble and conceded defeat. Her husband became one 
of Shankara’s four most famous disciples. 


% RRA 4A: 


om rathasthaya namah 


85. Established (Stha) on a chariot (Ratha). 


This is indicative of being a person of high standing. Venus rules 
over vehicles and comfort from vehicles as this name suggests. Venus 
vehicles are royal chariots rather than donkey carts, A Mercedes rather 
than a basic car. The soul rides in its chariot, the body, and is guided by 
the Divine Will. If we are doing this mantra, we can make it a prayer for 
that guidance. The Nakshatra in the middle of Taurus has as its symbol 


Venus, Shukra 305 


someone riding ona chariot. Taurus is a sign of Venus and represents the 
storehouse of wealth. 


% WIA AA: 
om rajataprabhaya namah 


86. Having a silvery lustre (Prabha). 


Venus is related to silver (Rajata) coloured metals. This mantra 
can help us shine. 


do GAINES AA: 


om siryapragdeSasaficaraya namah 


87. Moving (Saficdra) in the Eastern country (Pra@gdesha) of the Sun 
(Sdrya). 


Each Graha is associated with one of the ancient kingdoms. 
Perhaps today this could indicate Japan, famous for its beautiful 
landscape, architecture, artisanship and artwork. The Japanese flag 
shows the rising Sun. In India, the Sun is worshipped in Odisha (Orissa), 
the Eastern most state before Bengal. The Bengal coast faces South, so 
Odisha is the first eastern facing coast of India to receive the Sun's rays 
and the great temple of Konark was built there in the form of a great 
chariot ridden by the Sun. Near there is Puri. one of the great centres of 
devotional worship, which is an expression of exalted Venus. The most 
famous saint who spread devotion in Odisha was Chaitanya Mahaprabhu 
who lived about 500 years ago (1486-1534). One of his five leading 
‘friends’ was Swami Achyutananda Dasa, who founded the school of 
Jyotisha which is now represented by the teachings of Pandit Sanjay Rath, 
my Jyotisha Guru. This tradition has a strong knowledge of the devotion 
to the Mother Goddess, naturally represented by Venus. 


5 N 
to UTR AH: 
om suraSatrusuhrde namah 


88. A friend and ally (Suhrd) to the enemies of the gods (Sura Shatru). 


306 Yoga of the Planets 


He is the joy of those who do not have access to the nectar of 
immortality because he brings them back to life again and again. 


It is one of the strange things about the greedy and malignantly 
minded people that they think that by killing someone, they can protect 
themselves from enemies and whistleblowers. Some time is bought, for 
sure, but in the context of the endless expanse of time, that is a very 
limited gain. When you kill a person who opposes you they can take 
another birth much more suited to their revenge. Corrupt politicians, 
business leaders and Mafioso take note. 


There is an interesting related example of this in the great epic 
the Mahabharata. In this case, a woman who was much aggrieved with 
one of the greatest and nearly invincible warriors of the day transformed 
herself into a man through intense meditation. Only very rare individuals 
can achieve such a thing without passing through physical death. She 
became the charioteer of one of the great archers on the opposing side. At 
the height of the great battle, they confronted the hero who was unable to 
defend himself because he saw that one of his opponents was a woman 
by birth and thus not to be attacked. He fell mortally wounded but 
insisted as he lay there that the fatal arrow came not from her but from 
her companion Arjuna. 


It is very interesting to study charts of birth and rebirth. 
Occasionally one gets a case where one can be quite sure that the one 
who died returned as the other. | have personally come across several 
cases where a child has led her parents to a house that she has never seen 
in this life and has described the interior, the inhabitants, and more. The 
parents on speaking to the family of that house hear about the child or 
young person they lost and how the stories fit perfectly. In any 
individual’s chart, one can also study the twelfth and sixtieth divisional 
charts (DwadashAmsha, D-12 and ShashtyAmsha, D-60). The D-12 is 
about the genetic inheritance and the D-60 is read as the past life chart 
and then we can see how the natal chart (Rashi, D-1) is projected from 
them. Often one sees how serious weaknesses that led to the previous 
difficulties and death, as can be seen in the D-12 and D-60, are translated 
into natal combinations that carry the same agenda but with more power 
to fulfil their purpose. 


do HAG AH: 
om kavaye namah 


89. The sage (Kavi). 


Venus, Shukra 307 


This name is repeated either emphasising the meaning or 
indicating another interpretation (Venus 14 and 65). Kavi also means a 
wise or even enlightened person, a thinker ora sage. 


$ FSV AA: 


om tulavrsabharasisaya namah 


90. The lord (/sha) of the signs (Rashi) of Tula, Libra, and Vrshabha, 
Taurus. 


Tula means scales and Vrishabha a bull as in Western astrology. 
They are the second and seventh signs and so Venus is associated with 
the second and seventh houses in the Vedic chart. For example, the 
seventh house is the first marriage and the second is read as the second 
marriage. 


TERT AM: 


om durdharaya namah 


91. Irresistible (Durdhara). 


This has the sense of one whose approach cannot be stopped, or 
something that is hard to bear. One could apply this to the will of the truly 
enlightened ones, the influence of the charismatic or the power of the 
cupid. 


3 TATIORH AA: 
om dharmapalakaya namah 


92. The protector (Palaka) of the Dharma. 


Dharma is that which upholds life. It is the true way for any being 
to sustain his or herself, whatever that may be. This shows that Venus, 
unafflicted, will help us adhere to our true path. Jt also tells us that if 
Venus is afflicted, it is hard to keep to it. Venus is easily afflicted and that 
is why almost everyone needs to do remedies for Venus. One can start 
with these mantras. 


308 Yoga of the Planets 


So AAA AA: 


om bhagyadaya namah 


93. Giving (Da) luck or good fortune. 


Bhagya also means entitlement to a share, like an inheritance. 
Bhagya is associated with the ninth house, so Venus in the ninth can give 
tremendous blessings and luck. The Goddess of Fortune smiles on one. 


do HARA aa: 


om bhavyacaritraya namah 


94. Possessed of auspicious (Bhavya) conduct (Charitra). 


Those who behave in a charming, noble and courteous way. 


$ FATA aH AA: 
om bhavapasavimocakaya namah 


95, Completely freeing ( Vimocaka) from the grip of worldly existence. 


This is similar to Venus 45 except that name is about the 
intention to be free while here it is the realization of it. Bhava means birth 
and hence the succession of births and rebirths but it can also be 
interpreted as mental states, thoughts and emotions. Obviously, there is 
nothing wrong with thoughts and feelings, they are an essential part of 
life, but the state of freedom is where one's mental states arise without 
overshadowing the experience of one’s own Self so bondage (Pasa) is not 
present. 


Descartes famously wrote ‘Cogito ergo sum’, ‘I think, therefore | 
am’, This suggests he had not experienced a thought free state of the 
mind. If there are no thoughts, one still exists, in fact the sense of being 
expands so profoundly that we speak (later) of ‘knowing the Self, as if the 
awareness of one’s own being is normally hidden by the thoughts. It need 
not be, but initially, beforc we habituate to the transcendental experience, 
it appears like that. Many people have had these experiences and when 
they arise, all of this is quite obvious, but without having experienced 
this, then what [ am attempting to describe may seem incomprehensible. 


Venus, Shukra 309 


This name tells us that this blessed state can come about through 
the agency of Shukra or that a dominant Venus can incline us to these 
experiences or states, though neither word is really correct. Some human 
mental states arise from the urges of the lower Chakras. The base Chakra 
gives us our survival urge and so this is the last to be transcended. The 
second Chakra is about sexuality and gets a second level priority. The 
third is about power, wealth and fame. Almost everything we see in the 
world appears to rotate around these three. Life can seem an endless 
struggle as there is no peace in any of them. 


if, by some great blessing, our attention shifts to the fourth 
Chakra, near the heart, then a profound peace and calmness arises that 
tends to quench the interest in the lower three Chakras and their issues. 
There is much beyond this but it is a step into freedom and an 
incalculable blessing. However, there has to be a firm conviction to stay 
there as sliding back remains a possibility. The second and third Chakras 
are constantly advertising their wares and it is tempting to think that one 
can indulge in them while retaining the grace of the heart. After all, the 
state seems so profound. However, as the attention gets increasingly 
caught up elsewhere, that state fades away. 


There is another version of this name with essentially the same 
meaning: om bhavabandhavimocandya namah. 


go Hees FA: 


om gaudadesesvaraya namah 


96. The ruler (/shvara) of the Gauda country (Desha). 


This is associated with the central part of Bengal. It also suggests 
‘sugar country’, since Venus naturally rules over places where sweet 
things are grown or abound even though Venus is said to rule over the 
sour taste. In Venus 87 above, we referred to Chaitanya Mahaprabhu who 
lived his last 24 years in Puri, Odisha. He was born and also lived in Gauda 
(ancient Bengal) and the lineages from him are called Gaudiya because of 
this. 


do 7A aR: 
om goptre namah 


97. The protector and preserver, 


310 Yoga of the Planets 


Goptr is also a name of Jupiter. Jupiter and Venus are the two 
Gurus or guides and there is no protector greater than knowledge. 


Wa AH: 


om gunine namah 


98. Possessed of good qualities (Gunin), 


Jo TOTP TION AA: 


om gunavibhisanaya namah 


99. Decorated (Vibhiisana) with all good qualities (Guna). The good 
qualities are visible to all. 


Ho SABTAAT ATA A: 


om jyesthanaksatrasambhiitaya namah 


100. Born (Sambhita) when the Moon was in /yestha Nakshatra. 


Jyestha is a heroic Nakshatra ruled by Indra, the slayer of the 
great demon Vrtra and as such indicates overcoming great opposition by 
skill or cunning rather than brute force. Indra is the king of heaven and is 
therefore surrounded by opulence. According to the ancient Vedic texts, 
Jyestha has the power of abundance, which makes it the natural birth star 
of Venus. Venus also represents diplomacy and diplomats have to use 
great skill to overcome all kinds of difficult circumstances. 


If a person is born with the Moon at the beginning of Jyestha, 
then according to the Vimshottari Dasha system of Vedic Astrology, they 
would pass through 17 years of Mercury, which indicates childhood and 
being single, then seven years of Ketu, which indicates an intensive 
transformational phase with the potential for spiritual awakening, and 
then 20 years of Venus, which is best suited to householder life. There is a 
tradition in India that one marries at 24 or 25 after completing one's 
education (17+7=24). Perhaps this tradition relates to this name. 


Venus, Shukra 311 


3 TARTS AA: 
om jyesthaya namah 


101. The eldest (/yestha). 


The literal meaning of Jyestha is the eldest one and also the pre- 
eminent. The oldest child often became the king and so it indicates the 
leaders in every field. 


Jyestha, as just discussed, is the name of a Nakshatra with much 
depth and some ominous portent as it is where Indra, king of the gods 
and deity of this Nakshatra, fights the demons. The goddess Jyestha was 
born before her sister Shri Lakshmi, the goddess of wealth so she is said 
to indicate a lack of wealth. Of course, those who earn riches through 
their own energy, start without any. In the Yoginihrdaya Tantra, Jyestha 
indicates knowledge. The root of this name is ‘Jya’, to overpower. Those 
born with the Moon here also exhibit leadership ability and can rise much 
above their original status. They can be psychically powerful and may 
become leaders in the spiritual or material field. For the Moon to succeed, 
Venus has to be strong as it rules Taurus where the Moon is most 
powerful. 


HASTA AA: 
om Ssresthaya namah 


102, The best (Shrestha). 


In one place, Maharishi Parashara describes Venus as the best of 
the benefics. In another place, this glory is given to Jupiter. This name is 
given to both of them. How can two be the best? It depends on what kind 
of knowledge one seeks and thus how one judges what is best. It is a 
matter of context. Jupiter is more oriented to spiritual upliftment while 
Venus will support both the material and the spiritual depending on the 
intention of the soul. 


% PaRaar aA: 
om Sucismitaya namah 


103. One with an innocent smile. 


312 Yoga of the Planets 


Shuchi also indicates holiness, purity and simplicity. Smita is a 
smile or gentle laugh. It also indicates expanded or blossomed. 
Schuchismita is one who is completely pure and blissful. This is the gift of 
unafflicted and fully exalted Venus. If one uses the appropriate mantras, 
Venus can start to act like that, whatever its condition in the birth chart. 


Another version of the name is om Sucisthitaya namah. 
Established in innocence and purity. There is nothing more adorable than 
this and this is what can be damaged by the afflictions to Venus and 
enhanced by the association of Jupiter. 


je Ges AA: 


om apavargapradaya namah 


104. The giver (Prada) of emancipation (Apavarga). 


This is also a name of the Sun. The Sun represents Self- 
realization which is a profound level of fulfilment but Venus represents 
the complete wholeness of life in absolute purity which is a far, far more 
fulfilled state. 


dostarad Aa: 


om anantaya namah 


105. Without end, immortal (Ananta). 


Desire may seem endless but it is the wholeness of life that is 
truly immortal. A lasting love is a sweet drop of this. 


Partha Aq: 


om sarhtanaphaladayakaya namah 


106. Giving (Dayaka) undecaying results (Samtdana Phala). 


That which is accomplished by the selfish and the greedy is 
washed away soon. Such people inevitably engage in deception but, 
sooner or later, the truth will emerge. It cannot be hidden from Cosmic 
Intelligence for even a moment. That Intelligence decides our fate and it is 
entirely just. However, we can ask for forgiveness from whatever 
personification of the Divine we are most fond and even though we 


Venus, Shukra 313 


cannot assure escape trom whatever we deserve, good will come of it all. 
The Mother, especially, is most forgiving. 


The works of the pure minded are remembered and honoured 
with affection for a very long time. 


sce 
do GagAqMaly AA: 
om sarvaisvaryapradaya namah 
107. Giving (Prada) rulership over everything, universal lordship (Sarva 
Aishvarya). 


Venus can indicate high position like being chief executive of a 
major company. Devotion can jead to oneness with the Supreme Being: 
The highest state. 


So BaP aA AA: 


om sarvagirvanaganasannutaya namah 


108. Worshipped (Sannuta) by the whole assembly of the divine beings 
(Sarva Girvana Gana). 


All natural law comes under the sway of and serves the pure of 
heart 


Om tat sat 


314 Yoga of the Planets 


Saturn, Shani 


Saturn, Shani 315 


SATURN, SHANI 


do Way AH: 


om Sanaiscaraya namah 


1, Salutations to the one who moves slowly. 


Shani means slow and Chara means move so Shanaishchara is 
one who moves slowly. [t takes Saturn about 30 years to traverse the 
whole zodiac. This name also indicates moving gently, quietly, gradually, 
mildly, softly, sluggishly and so forth. Saturn is the slowest moving visible 
planet and this characteristic is clearly of prime importance as it is 
mentioned first. Do not expect Saturn to give the results of his yogas 
(astrological combinations) quickly! 


Gentleness and quietness are not the words that spring to the 
minds of most students of Jyotisha in regard to Saturn. They are, 
however, the natural characteristic of the Swami, a word I am choosing to 
use for the awakened and surrendered ascetic. This is the highest value of 
life indicated by Saturn. A Swami is one who, when moving or acting, 
never disturbs the natural law. As a Graha in the Vedic chart, Shani sets 
everything to act in accord with the natural law. A Swami is not one who 
follows any set mode of life or wears any particular garb, but one who is 
established in the state of Being suggested or described by these names. 


Ho Wels AA: 


om santaya namah 


2. The peaceful, contented one. 


Shanta is the nature of the Swami and it is the influence of Shani 
that can make one a Swami. An association between Saturn and the Moon 
is common in the charts of saints. In the beginning, this combination 
usually brings some unhappiness as Saturn restricts the Moon’s search 
for outer happiness. This motivates a search for the real source of joy. 


316 Yoga of the Planets 


My own experience may be of interest here. | have Saturn tightly 
aspecting my Moon. Misery set in from the beginning of Saturn's 
Mahadasha (major planetary cycle of 19 years). During the sub-cycle of 
Venus, I was chronically depressed. | began to realize, in my own words, 
that the only way ‘out’ was ‘in’. | turned to prayer and that led to 
meditation. | abandoned all personal aims and devoted myself to the 
inner path as I understood it. Gradually the depression thinned and one 
day bliss started arising. Now | never experience depression and life has 
an underlying nectar despite the natural ups and downs of emotion. 


From this, | know that life in sweetness, born of surrender to 
truth, is the other side of the coin from depression arising from the 
Saturn Moon connection. Once Saturn is satisfied, what remains is Shanta: 
peace, contentment, satisfaction, tranquility. Shanta can also indicate 
stilled, purified, even deceased. It is said that one has to die to the world 
in order to truly live. Here again, the character of the Swami is indicated. 


So BARNA aa: 


om sarvabhistapradayine namah 


3. The giver (Praddyin) of all blessings (Sarvabhista), everything one 
could desire. 


See the greatness of Saturn. It is said that one who has no 
neediness or Jonging, one who is truly Shanta, can grant the fulfilment of 
any desire of another person who petitions him. There is a story of the 
great sage Vyasa. A woman approached him desirous of having a child. He 
blessed her and then she easily conceived with her husband having failed 
for many years. Sometime later Vyasa himself became desirous of having 
a son. It is said that he had to meditate for a hundred years before he was 
able to fulfil his desire. if one truly surrenders what one desires, then that 
object easily arises if needed, otherwise much trouble occurs in its 
fulfilment. As a general rule, the greater the attachment, the greater the 
trouble. 


Very few pray to Saturn for fulfilment of desires, they turn to him 
to be free from misery. The misery is due to our holding on to what we 
really do not need. Saturn is gently trying to get us to let go. This 
resistance to our willfulness appears merciless but when we yield, he 
gives. He is said to be the greatest giver. 


Saturn, Shani 317 


$0 ARIAT AA: 


om Saranyaya namah 


4. The refuge and protector. 


Sharanya indicates those in need of protection, the poor, the 
miserable, the hurt and the injured. Saturn indicates them and also 
signifies those who are capable of giving refuge. In India, it is considered 
that there is no greater refuge than the feet of the Guru who is naturally a 
Swami. 


3 QquqiT” 4q: 


om varenyaya namah 


5. The most excellent one, the chief. 


Varenya is the desired one. Varenya is also saffron, the most 
precious condiment and the colour traditionally worn by the Swamis. It is 
meant to indicate that the outer fire of the householder life has been 
taken inside and that the inner fire has been awakened and has burnt all 
impurities. 


Saturn represents the ascetics and Saturn’s influence is what 
makes us take up any ascetic activity like meditation. Without his 
influence, one would not think of such a thing. Even amongst ascetics, 
there are variations. | once lived in a monastery and all the rooms were 
simple but one friend had no furniture or carpet and was sleeping on a 
thin mat on the floor. Only Saturn makes one do that. 


jo Gaara AA: 


om sarvesaya namah 


6. The Lord (/sha) of all (Sarva). 


Who is not under the influence of Saturn? According to the 
ancient Vedic stories, even Lord Shiva and his son Lord Ganesha could 
not escape. In one story of the birth of Lord Ganesha, all the Grahas 
except Saturn were invited to celebrate the birth of the child. Lord Shiva’s 
wife Parvati noticed the absence of Shani and asked why. Lord Shiva 
advised that it was better he was not there but She insisted he be invited. 


318 Yoga of the Planets 


When Shani saw the child, the child's head fell off and had to be replaced 
by an elephant's. Of course, this story is to help us understand the effect 
of Saturn’s Drishti or aspect. In an astrological chart certain places are 
said to be aspected by Saturn. Where that aspect falls, we have 
humiliating experiences that help our ego fall. After that, the new ‘head’ of 
wisdom replaces it. 


In another village story, someone told Lord Shiva his 7¥% years of 
Saturn were about to start. This is called Sade Sati (7%) and is when 
Saturn passes over the twelfth, first and second zodiacal signs from the 
natal Moon. Shiva promptly dived into the Ganges and sat in meditation, 
undisturbed, for 7% years. Emerging, He commented that the transit of 
Saturn had had no effect. “But, Lord,” someone said, “you had to sit on the 
bottom of the Ganges for 7% years.” It is alla matter of viewpoint. 


do GTA AA: 
om saumyaya namah 


7. The mild, peaceful one (Saumya). 


It is hard to find a more sweet description of any being than 
Saumya. It means nectar-like, agreeable, pleasing, gentle, soft, handsome, 
auspicious. Saturn rules over many characteristics opposite to these and 
this mantra may well be to appeal for relief from the dry, rough and ugly. 
Saumya is the nature of the Swami, which is the embodiment of Saturn’s 
highest nature. This state of peace is given by him having been satisfied 
by atotal surrender to truth. 


In the Dig Chakra, the special astrological chart of the compass 
directions, Saturn is opposite the Sun, forming an axis. This is very 
significant. Those whose souls are ruled by either Saturn or the Sun share 
a path. They both have to rise above sorrow. Saturn represents asceticism 
and the Sun, truth. Thus the ascetic must seck truth and the knower of 
truth find dispassion and rise above se!f-interest. 


do OA AH: 


om suravandyaya namah 


8. Worshipped (Vandya) by the gods (Sura). 


Even those who are immortal worship him, the one who 
determines truth and consequences. As long as any being has a sense of 


Saturn, Shani 319 


relativity, consequences matter and hence he is worshiped for protection. 
All beings attend to Being which gives life to them. All kinds of worship 
amount to giving attention. The deeply ignorant have little awareness of 
Being but the immortals, who exist very close to Being, are constantly 
attending to That. It alone is truly immortal so one cannot be immortal 
except by constant attention to That. Thus the great attend to the Great. 


co) Sarnlaaeai a: 


om suralokaviharine namah 


9. Roaming agreeably (Viitdrin) through the heavens (Sura Loka). 


One who has attained Divine consciousness moves here and 
there with complete ease, unconcerned for anything. The body may 
experience various things but the inner being is unaffected. It exists in 
Sura Loka, heaven, literally the world of nectar. The enlivenment of the 
inner being causes every movement to generate sweetness, whatever the 
consequences for the outer shell of the body and mind. 


in Jyotisha, Sura Loka is the region of the zodiac containing the 
signs from Sagittarius to Pisces. This includes the two signs of Saturn, 
Capricorn and Aquarius, Saturn is at its most auspicious in Sagittarius 
and Pisces, due to the benign guiding influence of Jupiter. 


3 Garaatqaer aa: 


om sukhasanopavistaya namah 


10. Seated (Upavista) comfortably. 


That inner awakening leads to both sweetness in motion and 
complete ease at rest. Sukhdsana is a comfortable Yogic pose and literally 
means an easy Seat or position. 


Fea TA: 


om sundaraya namah 


11. The beautiful one (Sundara), 


320 Yoga of the Planets 


That inner state is the ultimate beauty and those who know it 
become the most beautiful and attractive amongst beings. It is the 
supreme beauty and whoever radiates more of it, is more attractive. The 
basis of this state is the lack of ego, the sign of whichis when 'l’, ‘me’ and 
‘mine’ scarcely arise in the mind. The greatest wealth is humility, as Lord 
Jesus said. 


3 Gala FA: 


om ghanaya namah 


12. The great one. Ghana is firm, compact, dense, concentrated, 
impenetrable. As such itis permanent and complete. It is auspicious. 


% UA FA: 
om ghanartpaya namah 


13. His form is Ghana: firm, auspicious and unable to be disturbed. 
Ho TAPIA 

$0 A: 

om ghanabharanadharine namah 


14. He is wearing (Dhdrin) ornaments (Abharana) that are auspicious, 
great and unbreakable (Ghana). 


go TaaRaaaa aa: 


om ghanasaravilepaya namah 


15, Anointed {Vilepa) with the essence (Sara) of stability (Ghana). 


What use to fight with him? Nothing will disturb his motion or 
change his will. 


Saturn, Shani 321 


4 Gala AA: 


om khadyotaya namah 


16. A flash of light (Khadyota). 


This is also a name of the Sun (51). It can mean a firefly. It has the 
suggestion of a source of light or flash of brilliance. While it might seem 
strange to use the same name for the two vastly different lights, we have 
already seen that the Sun and Saturn are linked on a directional axis and 
are father and son according to fyotisha. While the light of Saturn as a 
planet is fairly faint, its influence brings us to the light of life represented 
by the Sun. Thus the repetition of this name, amongst other names 
pointing to this same state, is most appropriate. Awakening is like a flash 
of light, even though that light is not a worldly one. 


Weed aa: 


om mandaya namah 


17. Tarrying, languishing, loitering, shining, rejoicing, to be drunk 
(Manda). The slowed down and euphoric condition. 


This state arises as pure consciousness dawns in human 
awareness and Saturn, as Lord Shiva, represents that state sitting at the 
top of the path of the Kundalini. Once the energy reaches that place, the 
nectar starts to be produced causing a state sometimes superficially akin 
to drunkenness, filled with intoxicating bliss. 


On the other hand, unless there are strong positive influences 
especially of Jupiter and the Sun, Saturn’s influence can cause laziness 
and bad habits. 


to Aeeaea AA: 


om mandacestaya namah 


18. Moving slowly (Manda Chesta). 


The awakened move in a state of bliss with no concerns. 


322 Yoga of the Planets 


do FETA AA: 


om mahaniyagunatmane namah 


19. His very soul (Atman) is endowed with the quality (Guna) of 
worthiness; he is illustrious, respectable, glorious, exalted and noble 
(Mahaniya). 


Just because someone has Saturn in the Ascendant, the first 
house, does not mean that he or she is somehow lowly or unkempt. This 
placement occurs in many of the greatest souls from great saints to 
political leaders like former British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher. 
Mrs. Thatcher had Saturn exalted in the Ascendant as does Swami 
Shivkrupanand, one of India’s well-known saints. Both have Libra rising, 
where Shani is exalted, and dress smartly. The effect of this placement on 
the personality depends on the condition of Saturn. 


In Karl Marx’s chart, Saturn rises in Aquarius giving an influence 
over the masses but the Tamas of both Saturn and its sign might explain 
the suffering that followed the spread of his ideas though the condition of 
the working class, which Saturn signifies, did improve in many countries. 
Indira Gandhi and George W Bush both have Saturn in Cancer in the first 
house. Generally the Sattvic nature of Cancer improves Saturn. It’s a royal 
sign but it is a sign that cares. However, whether other people think the 
person cares depends on other factors, particularly the Arudha (or 
shadow) Ascendant President G.W. Bush's Arudha is in secretive Scorpio, 
Indian Prime Minister Mrs Gandhi's is in royal Aries, 


$ FeIWMaAgeIa Aa: 


om martyapavanapadaya namah 


20. He purifies (Padvana) mortals (Martya) by his movement. 


Pada is foot implying his position, especially his Navamsha, as he 
moves through the zodiac. We tend to be afraid of Saturn's transits but 
this name alerts us to the purpose of the experiences caused. Through 
being called to account for past misdeeds, we get purified and eventually 
we become fit for Divine grace, the highest reward or blessing, 


% Fea Aq: 


om mahesaya namah 


Saturn, Shani 323 


21. The great lord (Mahesha). 


This is a name of Lord Shiva and points to the natural connection 
between Shani and Shiva. If Saturn is afflicted in the natal chart or its 
transit appears threatening, then worshipping Shiva can help. This name 
makes an excellent mantra. 


$ SMITA 7a: 


om chayaputraya namah 


22. The son (Putra) of the shadow. 


Chhaya is a wife of the Sun and also means shadow. Saturn is said 
to be the son of the Sun but not by his true wife. The story goes that the 
Sun's wife Prajiia became tired of living with the intense heat of the Sun 
so she left, putting her shadow in her place. Prajfia means wise and 
indicates consciousness. It is pronounced like Pragya. The Sun did not 
notice the difference and had two children with Chhaya, the first of whom 
was Saturn, Shani. There are various versions of this story but in all of 
them the Sun eventually realized something was wrong. (See Saturn 73.) 


It is easy to put an interpretation on this since the Sun represents 
the Supreme Soul and its ‘wife’ awakened consciousness, or alternatively 
the ego and its ‘wife’ illusion, full of differences and preference. 
Awakening is fiery, as it burns up the worldly appearance, but ignorance, 
for all its apparent comforts, is always filled with selfishness. This is due 
to having self-preservation as its root and self-perpetuation and 
promotion as its branches. This ensures a tradition of sorrow. 


Chhaya apologized and the Sun was reunited with his true wife 
after her father, the great cosmic architect, toned down his fieriness. They 
all lived happily ever after. The initial stages of awakening may be 
accompanied with excess heat in the body. Once it becomes permanent, 
this ceases. This is why one should not push the Yogic practices, 
especially Pranayama, or one may have heat problems. 


a c 
$ Naya AA: 
om sarvaya namah 


23. Causing evolution (Sharva). 


324 Yoga of the Planets 


This is aname accorded to Lords Shiva and Vishnu. It shows their 
power over anything mortai - the whole world. It also means ‘going’ or 
with the power to injure. There is no injury except to the ego and the 
sense of moving pertains to the sense of a process of evolution as the ego 
is whittled away. 


Fo MATMOM AA: 


om Satatiiniradharine namah 


24. Carrying (Dhdrin) a quiver (Tanira) with a hundred (Shata) arrows 
(or having a hundred quivers). 


The idea is that he has an inexhaustible supply of darts to fire! 


So TRATED FA: 


om carasthirasvabhavaya namah 


25. His nature (Svabhava) is both moveable (Chara) and fixed (Sthira). 


He rules over two signs of the zodiac: Capricorn, which is a 
moveable sign, and Aquarius, which is fixed. 


He AAAI y AA: 


om acaficalaya namah 


26. Steady and reliable. 


Chanchala is fickle, unsteady or tremulous. Achanchala means 
the opposite. Despite being moveable, he is steady. Thus those with a 
strong influence of Capricorn are not unstable or flinching. This is why 
they are often very successful. Indeed, Capricorn represents the big 
business people. 


If Saturn is afflicted, then Chanchala can prevail. The greater the 
affliction, the more difficult it becomes to complete any task. Those who 
have repeated problems holding down a job and other such problems 
may need a remedy for Saturn such as this mantra. 


Saturn, Shani 325 


do aS AA: 


om ntlavarnaya namah 


27. Blue-coloured (Nila-Varna). 


Saturn is especially connected to black, blue or dark-blue, all of 
which can be called Nila-Varna, and also gems of such colours. The blue 
sapphire is called Nila in Sanskrit and that is his stone. It is very cooling 
like Saturn so it should only be worn if one can cope with that. These 
stones can also be very different one from another and sometimes their 
effect is intense. Therefore, it is recommended that one tests the stone by 
having it for a day and seeing the experiences that come. If they are 
welcome, then buy the stone. Good fyotisha jewellers will allow you to do 
this, 


Starting here are five names beginning with ‘Ni’ or ‘Ni’, ‘Ni’ has 
the meaning of ‘in’ or ‘within’, while ‘Ni’ (long ‘i’ as in this name) has the 
sense of leading, subjugating or carrying the rod of punishment. While 
‘blue-coloured’ might sound innocuous, there is much within it Varna 
means nature as well as colour, so this name can also mean the one who 
can make us submit. Those with a strong influence of Saturn have to be 
very careful not to be too hard on others giving an impression of being 
cold or uncaring. 


$0 TAA AA: 


om nityaya namah 


28. Eternal. 


Nitya also indicates duties which have to be performed regularly. 
This includes caring for children and parents, serving the nation (such as 
paying taxes) and doing one’s chosen or allotted work. Also indicated are 
religious duties that are prescribed to be done regularly, like daily prayer 
and meditation for those belonging to almost all religions and spiritual 
lineages. Saturn rules over these duties. He makes us do them and is 
pleased when we maintain them. Whether we are good at them is also 
indicated by Saturn in the chart. 


326 Yoga of the Planets 


So AoA AA: 


om nilafijananibhaya namah 


29. Resembling (Nibha) blue or dark (Nila) mascara. 


Afijana is a decorative ointment made from antimony sulfide, 
which is blackish and was used as an eye ointment in the ancient world. 
This helps us understand the depth of blue intended. Vishnu and Krishna 
are said to be Nila, having a bluish tinge, and Shiva is Nila Kantha, blue 
throated 


H ASRATP TSA FA: 


om nilambaravibhisaya namah 


30. Adorned (Vibhusa) with dark blue (Nila) clothes (Ambara). 


People in authority or who wield strong influence tend to wear 
blue or black. It has become a global trend in recent times. Previously, 
dress reflected a broader range of planetary influences. 


On a spiritual level, the finest consciousness can be experienced 
as a deep blue. Perhaps this is why both Rama and Krishna are said to be 
dark or bluish in hue. 


a TA2IT4 AA: 


om niscalaya namah 


31. Immoveable (Nishchala). 


He represents karma which has to happen but one should avoid 
being fatalistic. Honesty, humility and spiritual practices do make his 
cycles increasingly bearable and ultimately blissful. His grinding 
promotes these good values and activities. 


do Fay AH: 
om vedyaya namah 


32. Famous and celebrated (Vedya). That which is to be known. 


Saturn, Shani 327 


Saturn represents the wisdom that is to be known and those who 
are famous for this learning. They have done the work to overcome their 
own epoistic tendencies and realized the truth. 


We know from Physics that there are five fundamental force 
fields each with a specific particle that carries the force. The first is 
gravity and the graviton. This correlates to the Vedic element of Akasha 
or space. The second is the gravitino, which generates motion in the 
space. This is like the Vedic Vayu or air. Then there is the photon (light) 
like the Vedic Agni or fire, the fermions that are like the Vedic Jala or 
water and, finally, the Higgs boson, which is the creator of mass and 
equates to the Vedic Prithvi or earth 


Here begins a long series of names beginning with the letter ‘v’. 
‘Vv’ when it moves (‘y’), becomes Vayu ruled over by Shani. Vayu is the 
mobile element. Everything that moves has the influence of Vayu. In fact, 
‘va’ alone means air or wind. It also has the sense of strength and power. 
‘Ve’ is to combine or compose and is the root of Veda, the hymns or 
vibrations which weave the basis of all natural law. ‘Vi’ is to separate and 
is thus the basis of discrimination or the path which observes the natural 
law and discerns its components. Ultimately, this leads to the recognition 
of the unity behind the diversity. ‘Vai’ is a combination of 'Va' and ‘Vi' or 
that which arises from ‘Vi’, which is indifference to the world. It is the 
turning away from the creative process of ‘Ve’ towards that which ‘Vi’ 
reveals. Shani, as we see below, rules over Vairagya or dispassion (Saturn 
37). 


First it is said that Saturn represents the masters of ‘Ve’, those 
celebrated for their learning. Then, immediately, the sequence starts to 
explore ‘Vi’. In Saturn 33, we see that the first thing that arises from 
learnedness is a clear understanding of the laws. 


go fatuqa aa: 


om vidhiripaya namah 


33. Whose very form (Ripa) is the sacred taw. 


Vidhi are precepts, the laws or rules to be followed in religious or 
mundane matters. It also relates to fate, destiny and luck, and also 
conduct in accordance with the natural law. Saturn requires us to live by 
the sacred law. To the extent we do, we are spared punishment. 


{In an ancient time, a sage was sitting in deep meditation in a 
forest. A thief pursued by the king's men passed by. When the soldiers 


328 Yoga of the Planets 


came there they demanded information from the sage. He did not answer. 
He was in deep Samadhi (Venus 68), a non-active but totally conscious 
state of awareness which can be devoid of outer sensory experience. He 
had not seen the thief nor heard the soldiers. Enraged, they pinned him to 
a tree with a spear and moved on. After some time the sage came out of 
meditation to find his predicament. He survived but was gripped with the 
question of why this had happened to him. He summoned Lord Yama, 
who, like St Peter in Christian lore, keeps the records of people's acts and 
accords them their due. Challenged to explain, Lord Yama said that the 
sage, as a child, had made a sport of piercing locusts with a very sharp 
kind of grass. The accumulation of this cruelty had led to his experience. 


The sage became angry because he felt that the acts of a child, 
being ignorant of right and wrong, should not be so seriously punished. 
He cursed Lord Yama to spend some time as a human being. Then his 
name was Vidura (see Mars 26), This was thought a terrible curse for a 
divine being, since human life was considered a kind of hell. This story is 
part of the build up to the Mahabharata war where many divine beings 
participated in perhaps the greatest human drama of all time. Since no 
great one would come to Earth voluntarily, various events like this one 
led to the great confluence of divinity on Earth that accompanied the 
incarnation of Lord Krishna. The story of the Mahabharata is one of the 
greatest epics ever composed in human history and one of the two oldest. 
Itis a miracle that we have this story after 5000 years.. 


Rarely do we hear any discussion about the extraordinary nature 
of the Sanskrit literature and the genius it represents, No mind of the 21* 
century could achieve what the ancients achieved when they set down 
these great epics, the ancient sciences and the Sanskrit grammar itself. 
Jyotisha, Vedic Astrology, is a gem far beyond anything we could 
reconstruct today with all our computers and theoretical skills. 


The Sanskrit language is one of the most outstanding 
achievements of humanity with its highly scientific design. Indeed, the 
language is said to be of divine origin. Other early languages like Greek 
and Latin and even some languages still spoken like Zulu retain some of 
the ancient inflected (prefix/suffix) design. Most modern languages, like 
English and Hindi, are primitive in comparison to Sanskrit. {n earlier 
times there was a language of the educated, Sanskrit, which literally 
meaning polished or cultured, and a common tongue called Prakrit from 
which the modern languages evolved. A similar thing occurred during 
Roman times where there was Latin as well as Vulgar Latin spoken by the 
masses from which came French, Italian and Spanish. 


Strangely, we think that we have advanced since those days, but 
it is clear that in linguistics and even general mental clarity, we appear to 


Saturn, Shani 329 


have regressed. Sanskrit is based on roots from which verbs and nouns, 
etc. are constructed. Sanskrit has some 2,200 roots. The incredible thing 
is that only about 900 of these are actually used in the literature we have. 
The complete package is at least twice as powerful as was needed for 
speech and literature. 


In the other great epic, the Ramdyana, a story tells us that the 
sage Bharadwaja, one of the Vedic seers, just by reciting certain mantras 
created a whole city with all amenities including rivers of milk and honey 
and nymphs summoned from heaven. This was to house and entertain an 
army overnight. {t particularly mentions that his pronunciation was 
perfect. Only a completely pure consciousness could pronounce perfectly 
and this along with the purity of the atmosphere and the collective 
consciousness at that time made such a thing possible. In recent times, 
saints have achieved small examples of physical materializations through 
mantras but say that the pollution of the subtle and gross atmosphere has 
made the achievements of the ancients impossible. 


We are proud of our technology but it is not the only kind of 
technology that exists. Sacred technologies are hard to master without 
significant purification of consciousness. The Yoga Sitras, the basis of the 
Yogic science, tell us that only one who has attained omnipotence and 
then completely renounced it has ‘roasted the seeds of evil’. Only such a 
one is a truly safe pair of hands. This warning tells us that the initial 
power that comes with expanding consciousness shoutd not be exploited. 
What the world needs is pure hearts and minds, not great power in the 
hands of the unfit. That purity, of itself, causes nature to return to 
balance. Let us all do our best to purify ourselves, and Shani, in the form 
of the sacred law, gives us the direction to do so. 


3 faa AA: 


om virodhadharabhimaye namah 


34. Removing the illusion of worldliness. 


More literally, it means causing strife (Virodha) between or with 
the rulers. Literally, opposing the support of the earth (Adha@rabhami) or 
causing strife for that which supports the earth. It is the rulers who 
maintain peace and order and therefore sustain human life on Earth. This 
name can be taken in the sense of calamities that befall kingdoms or 
those forces that oppose kings. In fyotisha, Saturn and the Sun are 
enemies. The Sun represents the kings and Saturn the servants, which can 


330 Yoga of the Planets 


be extended to the citizenry in general. They represent the ‘royalist’ and 
the ‘democratic’ camps. 


This name can refer to ecological calamities. Saturn is related to 
Vayu , the air or wind element, and his movement into the houses of our 
chart tends to be like a storm arriving. This name tells us that Vayu 
opposes Prithvi, the earth element signified by Mercury. His sign, Virgo, 
has a particular problem with Saturn. The answer is to worship the light 
of consciousness represented by the Sun. Hence, Savitr, the spiritual Sun, 
rules the Nakshatra in the middle of Virgo. The Gayatri mantra especially 
helps us overcome the darkness of Saturn. 


More esoterically, Saturn undermines worldliness itself. With 
this name, ‘Vi’ begins to dismantle the illusion that the world is real. We 
are reminded here of the seven and a half years of Shani, the Sade Sati 
(see Saturn 6). This transit is famous in India for being a time of great 
challenges but other transits of Saturn can shake our world. 


Mantras like this one should not be repeated casually. We can 
meditate on the deeper spiritual meaning, If done with great devotion in 
the face of such difficulties, it represents a prayer for understanding and 
this, in itself, can help us move forward. 


do FERNS VATS AA: 


om bhedaspadasvabhavaya namah 


35. His very nature (Svabhdva) is to cause disturbance (Bheda) for the 
home, business and government (Aspada). 


This continues the theme of the last name (Saturn 34). 
Worldliness and all kinds of worldly affairs can be undermined by his 
influence. Saturn in general and Capricorn in particular are expert in 
causing divisions and dissensions jn the process of gaining dominance. 
For example, the rich get richer and the poor get poorer. This is a 
division, which arises due to calculated actions, even if the poverty 
generated is not the principle goal. 


That is why Saturn rules the tenth house representing status and 
power. It is also why the spiritual path of Saturn is kindness because the 
natural tendency is more cold and cruel. If we see ourselves 
demonstrating these Saturnine tendencies, we need to make an extra 
effort to be kind and caring. For this reason, an excellent remedy for 
Saturn is to serve the poor and needy. Service requires more than 
sending a cheque, though that can be good. It is best to give of one’s heart 


Saturn, Shani 331 


even if those being served are emotionally damaged and do not respond 
as we might wish. Life has a way of mirroring us and that is something to 
be most grateful for despite the challenges it creates. After all, our Self is 
the most lovable of all things, being one with the Self of all. 


Please note the advice at the end of the commentary on the 
previous mantra (Saturn 34). 


% Facer AA: 


om vajradehaya namah 


36. His body (Deha) is unbreakable, like a thunderbolt (Vajra). 


After the last two names one would wonder what could be done 
to calm this apparently destructive influence. This name warns us that we 
cannot fight with him. As this name starts with ‘Va’, his great strength is 
being referred to. Slcill and respect is needed in dealing with those with a 
powerful Saturn. While one can be deeply committed to the goals of this 
particular lifetime and find Saturn’s impact as a troubling obstacle, it is 
good to contemplate the truth behind one’s situation. Whatever one 
creates, will have a very finite existence. One leaves this life empty- 
handed. Saturn is asking one to know the immortal essence of everything 
and is wearing away at whatever obstructs that knowing. Those 
obstructions are only on the level of knowledge but emotions and desires 
can initially hide the inner vision. 


This mantra may help maintain strength against the wearing 
effect of aging that Saturn exemplifies. 


do AUTaRMa au: 


om vairagyadaya namah 


37. Giving (Da) dispassion (Vairagya). 


Having seen one’s world being dismantled and finding one’s 
attempts to prop it up failing, dispassion eventually arises. Dispassion 
Starts as disgust but it can lead to true discrimination. 


332 Yoga of the Planets 


40 FWA aU: 


om viraya namah 


38. Powerful (Vira). 


Power arises from true dispassion. A person who will never 
harm anyone can be trusted with any weapon but it is wise for one not to 
pick it up as it is hard to carry a weapon without eventually using it. A 
great politician made a sword with half a kilogram of gold. He tried to 
offer it to various temples and saints. They all refused. Eventually a saint 
advised him that only the Goddess Mukambika could bear the karma of 
this weapon. It is kept in Her shrine but is never allowed to touch Her 
hand. 


$o FAP Aa: 


om vitarogabhayaya namah 


39, Removing (Vita) disease (Raga) and fear ( Bhaya), 


After we realize the truth about the world and its basis, all the 
problems with which we were beset are removed. Dis-ease and fear are 
the core issues. 


fo FAIRS AA: 


om vipatparamparesaya namah 


40. He represents or rules (/sha) over traditions (Parampara) of suffering 
(Vipat). That is one tragedy after another. 


That is why Saturn is so feared. The principal such tradition is 
the cycle of birth, death and rebirth. To bring that to an end, one must 
follow his lead and realize the Supreme Being. By knowing That, the 
tradition of suffering comes to an end. Since he rules over suffering, he 
can guide us out of it. 


Tragedies are generally losses. Vipat is letting go. Saturn causes 
one to let go willingly or unwillingly. As one adjusts to this, gradually 
dispassion develops and the immortal state arises. Rather than repeating 
this name, it is better to contemplate the message in it. 


Saturn, Shani 333 


do fasqqeara AA: 


om viSvavandyaya namah 


41. He is worthy of worship (Vandya) by everyone ( Vishva}. 


No one wants to suffer so everyone eventually will turn to the 
that which can bring it to an end: The realization of our own Self. The only 
obstacle is the ego and Saturn grinds away at that by his movements. That 
is why he boosts the ego by giving some worldly benefits in only three or 
four of the 12 astrological houses. The rest of the time he purifies by the 
fructification of karmic debts, known or more often unknown. Some are 
frightened by Sade Sati or the 7% years of Saturn (Saturn 6) as he passes 
over the natal Moon. Then he is also feared in the fourth and eighth 
zodiacal signs from the Moon. Indeed, apart from the third, sixth, tenth 
and eleventh places we are told that setbacks and suffering may well 
result. However, it is the Divine Grace that is being shown to us, so we 
need not fear. After all, paying off debts is good, it leads to a beautiful 
state of peace, Shanta, as mentioned right at the beginning of this set of 
names (Saturn 2). 


Debt is shown by the eighth house in the Vedic chart and 
signified by Saturn. Our current society has an interesting attitude to 
debt. Since the management of the economy has been acquired by the 
bankers and they make money from debt, the whole civilization is based 
on it. The size of the economy depends on how much money is 
circulating. The banks have persuaded most governments to agree that 
they will not print money, that is reserved for the banks. They invent 
money and loan it out. When someone takes a loan, the economy grows 
and when the debt is paid off, the economy shrinks. That is why debt 
repayment is only paid lip service. 


The majority of the borrowing has been by various levels of 
government Since the size of the borrowing is essentially the size of the 
economy, this has provided much of the wealth enjoyed by the 
community without the individuals having to bear direct responsibility. 
This arrangement is even sustainable as long as the borrowing and 
interest remain within certain limits. [ mention this because the 
unspoken truth is that the money borrowed will not be repaid, partly 
because it is not possible but mainly because no one wants the economy 
to shrink. This means that we are collectively programmed on an 
unconscious level to live with debt even though we may dislike debt 
individually. 


334 Yoga of the Planets 


Internally, debt is the karma of the mind and the body and they 
exist as long as that karma exists. There is no harm in it. Our economy is 
just a mirror of the nature of life. Sun 1 showed that there is no debt on 
the level of the soul. Saturn and the Sun work together to help us realize 
the Self. 


KH TAT AA: 


om grdhravahaya namah 


42. Flying (Vaha) on a vulture (Grdhra). 


Each planet has an animal as a vehicle and for Shani, that is a 
vulture. Grdhra also means greed. Where greed comes, Saturn surely 
appears. Saturn is also associated with crows. This mantra can help one 
be more conscious, which helps one be more unselfish. 


Vultures serve a very useful service to the environment. In the 
ancient epic, the Ramayana, the king of the vultures, Jatayu, is a leading 
hero. He alone fights to save Sita when she is kidnapped by the demon 
king Ravana. Jatayu is the youngest son of Aruna (Sun 1). His brother, 
Sampati, was the one who gave the information of where Sita had been 
taken by Ravana, after he had killed Jatayu. He had watched Ravana’s 
flight due to his extraordinary eyesight despite being unable to fly, having 
sacrificed his wings trying to protect Jatayu during their childhood. 


H TaN Aq: 
om giidhaya namah 
43. The secret one (Gudha). 


Happiness and suffering are experienced but the real cause is not 
seen. That is because it is our past generosity as well! as our errors that 
have created the present. Whatever appears to be the cause now, 
something else is responsible. 


do PAIRM Aa: 


om kirmangaya namah 


Saturn, Shani 335 


44. Making the eyes close. Literally, having limbs (Anga) like a tortoise 
(Kurma). 


The tortoise can retract its limbs so they become invisible. In this 
sense it is similar to the previous name (Saturn 43). Kurma also means 
the Prana or wind in the body that causes the eyes to close. It is the 
influence of Saturn that leads us to close the eyes and meditate. Without 
it, meditation would seem a waste of time. Saturn first brings various 
sufferings and then prompts one to follow a religious or spiritual path 
inward. In order to turn inward, first one has to close the eyes. 


There is another clue here. Kurma is one of the ten Vishnu 
avatars. In his great text, Maharishi Parashara says Kurma is the 
incarnation of Saturn who is himself an Avatara of the Supreme Being. 
Vishnu appeared as a tortoise to assist the divine beings in extracting the 
nectar of immortality from the ocean of consciousness. Its back provided 
the solid base for the churning. This is metaphorical of the process of 
evolution of consciousness from the mortal to the immortal. It cannot be 
achieved without an unshakeable basis. 


The discipline provided by Saturn is the backbone of the spiritual 
process. | have noticed that many of the spiritual teachers have Saturn 
rising at the time of birth. People who can sit quietly for long periods of 
time have this or some other strong influence of Saturn. 


Jo PRT aa: 


om kuriipine namah 


45. Ugly, Lowly. Humble (Kurépin). 


Saturn rules over those things that are ugly, misshapen or 
damaged. Rup is form and ku is a prefix implying deterioration, deficiency 
and want. It can imply something that appears contemptible. Everything 
that is has to be represented by one of the Grahas. if Saturn is strong, then 
it does not give this effect. Ku is also the earth. It bears us without 
complaint and thus represents the humble. 


If it were not for Saturn, one could not see others as lesser, as ofa 
lower class or caste. The Sun is the brightest object in the sky and Saturn 
is the furthest visible planet and is thus slow and dim to the eye. This 
gives rise to the social archetypes of the aristocracy or oligarchs and the 
common people. The Cassini probe has shown us what a great and 
glorious planet Saturn is and this gives a clue that one should be able to 


336 Yoga of the Planets 


appreciate the greatness deep in those one imagines as lesser than 
oneself. 


Saturn represents democracy and challenges us to social equality 
but its dark side can facilitate the dictators who crush others for the 
protection of their own status and pleasures. They have chosen to harden 
their heart for personal gain. There is nothing more ugly than the frozen 
heart. Everything is shown on the face. The harder and colder the look, 
the more the person has given in to a cruel world view. That is why it is 
difficult for a truly religious person to harm anything. Their heart is so 
open that they feel the suffering of even plants, what to speak of animals 
and people, and constantly seek to alleviate the distress. 


Hence, we shoutd not hide from this mantra. If we contemplate 
on it, we will eventually realize the unreality of ugliness and the beauty in 
everything. 


3o lcaara aa: 


om kutsitaya namah 


46. One who serves. 


Kutsita is translated as despised and contemptible but it is also a 
type of grass. There is nothing contemptible about grass but we walk on 
it. This is the nature of service. Its lowliness is its nobility. 


 FONAS A: 


om gunadhyaya namah 


47. Abounding in (good) qualities. 


This is the normal meaning of Gun@dhya. It could also mean that 
Saturn's influence gives rise to a multiplicity of effects or consequences or 
as we Say, ‘it does not rain but it pours.’ Both meanings are valid. Shani 
has many positive attributes but neglecting his rules leads to 
consequences that are not easily manageable. 


do TFata Aa: 


om gocaraya namah 


Saturn, Shani 337 


48. Moving through the heavens. 


This emphasizes the importance of the transits (Gochara) of 
Saturn, when assessing an astrologica! chart. Saturn changes zodiacal 
signs about every 2% years. This shift can be momentous for individuals 
and communities. 


& BRS AN AA: 


om avidyamiilanasaya namah 


49. The one who destroys (Ndsha) the very root (Mdia) of ignorance 
(Avidya). 


How often does one come to realize the truth after much 
suffering due to attachment to some misunderstanding or illusion? Some 
think of Saturn as a bringer of suffering but it is more proper to 
understand that he is enforcing the cosmic law for the sake of destroying 
the root of ignorance. The extent of one’s pain is a measure of one’s 
resistance to that. One may not even be aware of the nature of the 
rigidities one has created or accepted; but one often fights to maintain 
them even when one starts to see they are of no value and are, indeed, 
born of ignorance. 


30 feenfaareaetauy 7a: 


om vidyavidyasvaripine namah 


50. Who assumes the form (Svaripin) of both ignorance (Avidyé) and 
wisdom (Vidya). 


Saturn can delude us through his Tamasic influence, which can 
make one dul] and caught up in fruitless struggles. On the other hand, the 
seed of enlightenment is found within the same influence. One can close 
the eyes to fall asleep or to know the Truth. Astrologically, in order for 
the higher wisdom to emerge without long delay, the influence of Sattvic 
planets, especially Jupiter, are needed. The influence of both Saturn and 
Jupiter give rise to progress. The combination, whether conjoined or both 
influencing strongly in some way, is said to be Brahma Yoga, the power of 
creation. 


338 Yoga of the Planets 


40 ARR AA: 


om ayusyakaranaya namah 


51. The giver (Karana) of long life (Avusya). 


Saturn, as the slowest moving of the visible planets, is associated 
with time, longevity and old age. Saturn is associated with the eighth 
house of the Vedic Astrological chart, which controls longevity. A strong 
Saturn helps one live long. Whether it is a long period of joy or suffering 
depends on one’s attunement to the cosmic law and past karmas. 


# AES aH: 


om apaduddharwe namah 


52. Rescuing (Uddhartr) from trouble (Apad). 


We may think he is bringing us trouble but he is also there to 
rescue us. That is why there is a value in doing remedial worship of Shani. 
Some people fast on Saturdays and feed black sesame seeds to crows. 
Service to the poor, elderly and suffering is very good. Yoga and 
meditation are excellent. One can also recite one or more of these 
mantras. Doing a fixed number of repetitions at a fixed time for a fixed 
number of days is best, as Shani likes discipline. However, if our Saturn is 
afflicted we may have difficulty with discipline. We should just try the 
best we can avoiding laziness or carelessness as much as possible. 


$0 fqwPTRa aa: 


om visnubhaktaya namah 


53. Devoted (Bhakta) to Lord Vishnu. 


This name indicates that Shani will be pleased by devotion to 
Vishnu. Vishnu is that vast expansion of consciousness that sustains 
everything merely by its being. Saturn represents the most orthodox 
followers of any religion who wish to maintain their beliefs unchanged 
and want all others to adopt it. They want expansion without change, 
which is a representation of that vastness but reflected in a Saturnine 
way. 


It is a deep principle of the Vedic wisdom that Shiva worships 
Vishnu and Vishnu worships Shiva, just as both worship the Divine 


Saturn, Shani 339 


Mother, In the same way, their consorts, who are Her forms, worship 
them. Whatever one worships, one becomes; so whoever one is, one 
naturally look towards one’s highest role model. It works on every level. 
The One consciousness apparently divides itself into parts and we say 
Shiva, Vishnu, Brahma, Devi, Ganesha or whatever name we love, but it is 
still always only the One. The secret is that every aspect is eternally 
devoted to the whole ensuring that the oneness is ever One while 
sustaining the experience of many. 


In a nation or in the world, one may appear to belong to different 
or even opposing camps but as long as the love of commonality is greater 
than one’s interest in the differences, the whole remains healthy and 
thrives through debate and exchange. When this is forgotten, destruction 
follows. May the devotees of every god and religion never forget that they 
are simply seeing the One through a particular coloured glass and that in 
the realm of God every colour is a precious part of the wholeness. 


“i NX 
3 ale AA: 
om vasine namah 


54. Longed for (Vashin). 


That which we desire can also control us. That is why it is best 
only to long for knowing God. If one can find a guide who has nothing to 
gain from us, then that is something of real worth. We are wise to run far 
away from spiritual teachers who could see us as a material profit point. 
If we want to learn something of this world, then payment is required. 
That is the relationship of the teacher and the student. There is a vast 
difference between being a student and a disciple. To gain God- 
realization, then both Guru and disciple have to give everything, That is 
why a Guru will never have many real disciples. There cannot be a 
financial or even an emotional relationship between the Guru and a 
disciple, it is on a completely different level of the merger of the heart. 
This is my humble belief. 


30 fafeartafed aa: 
om vividhagamavedine namah 


55. Knowledgeable (Vedin) in various (Vividha) expressions of sacred law 
(Agama) or manifold kinds of traditional knowledge. 


340 Yoga of the Planets 


3p faheqeaa aa: 


om vidhistutyaya namah 


56. Praised (Stutya) in or through the sacred texts (Vidhi) as well as by his 
worshippers. 


This name tells us that one way of honouring Shani is by 
following the traditions, such as the precepts of our ancestors and the 
great religious teachers. This name also appears as Budha 60. 


0 Fey AA: 


om vandyaya namah 


57. Worthy of worship (Vandya). 


This is how many shrines arise to Saturn and also how those 
represented by Saturn can hold positions of great esteem. Saturn is 
associated with Tamas but its presence in strength in a Kendra (angular 
house) can give a position of leadership. An example is former UK Prime 
Minister Margaret Thatcher who had exalted Saturn in the first house. 
This placement was triggered when she entered her Rahu Dasha due to 
their association. She rose quickly to the top from being a relative 
unknown. When the Rahu cycle wound up, she was forced to quit (see 
Rahu 69). 


She was famous as ‘the iron lady’. Iron is signified by Saturn. Due 
to its exaltation in Venus’ sign of Libra, she was always dressed and made 
up well. She was followed as Prime Minister of England by John Major. He 
also has Saturn in the first house, but not exalted. He was called ‘the grey 
man’. Grey is a colour of a weaker Saturn. This name also appears as 
Budha 40. 


do PRT AA: 


om virtipaksaya namah 


58. With unusual sight. 


Virupaksha is a well-known name for Lord Shiva who is 
worshipped to relieve the distress we think Saturn is causing us. While 
the name can mean one with strange or deformed eyes, it points to the 
open third eye giving divine vision. This name can help us have truer 


Saturn, Shani 341 


insight. This name also appears as Mars 40 showing both the wind of 
Saturn and the fire of Mars can help develop this capacity. For example, 
Pranayama refines the breath and meditation awakens the inner light. 


o ARS AA: 


om varisthaya namah 


59, The greatest. 


Varistha is also a name for Jupiter (23), indicating how both 
Grahas can stand for persons and things of pre-eminent status. 


H TRE AA: 
om-garisthaya namah 


60. The heaviest or the most important. 


Heavy here means weighty or significant. Garistha can also mean 
the most venerable and even the worst. This is the range of signification 
of Shani. 


As the slowest moving Graha, Shani has to represent things of the 
greatest substance like the elephant amongst the beasts. In Vedic 
Astrology, perhaps the most fundamental part of the knowledge is what 
people and things are associated with each Graha and for what reason. 


Saturn represents elephants because they are the largest animal 
humans have common contact with. Jupiter represents elephants in the 
sense of the wealth that they indicate traditionally. Venus does because 
kings used to ride on elephants so they were the Rolls Royces of that 
time. Venus represents classy and expensive vehicles. 


om vajrankuSadharaya namah 


61. Carrying (Dhara) the thunderbolt (Vajra) and goad (Ankusha). 


These are his weapons. The Vajra was a weapon like a discus or 
in the form of an X which was very hard and powerful. Vajra could also 


342 Yoga of the Planets 


indicate any weapon considered destructive of spells and charms. It has 
an invincible and purifying quality and falls suddenly and irresistibly. 


The Ankusha is a hook usually used by elephant drivers or 
Mahuts. From a spiritual perspective, this indicates the power to control 
the senses. Thus these weapons remove the subtle and gross obstacles to 
self-knowledge and stabilize the mind. 


$0 FIAIERATA AA: 


om varadabhayahastaya namah 


62. His other hands (Hasta) are showing that he is granting boons 
(Varada) and dispelling fear (Abhaya). 


Saturn is often termed as a ‘malefic’ but he is there to help us to 
be real and to live a life in accord with natural law. This gives satisfaction 
and freedom from fear in this life and beyond. Some pandits hold that 
Saturn is the greatest giver amongst the Grahas. ! am writing this with 
Saturn exactly transiting my Ascendant. It surely has been a blessing, 


3 TWAT AG: 


om vamanaya namah 


63. The Lord disguised as a dwarf. 


Vamana is an incarnation of Lord Vishnu. He blessed his devotee 
Bali while depriving him of his universal lordship and restoring the 
cosmic order. The word Vamana can apply to all things small or even 
minute as well. [t can also mean misshapen or even indicate distorted 
behaviour such as cruelty. Such is the vast range of signification of Saturn. 
The glory of this name is that it advises us to see the divinity in 
everything that seems misshapen or otherwise diminished. Let us 
suppose that there is something about ourselves that we do not like. 
Something we feel ashamed of or due to which we feel diminished. Let us 
hold that aspect of ourselves, like a child, and gently repeat this mantra 
remembering that the unbounded greatness of Divinity is latent within it. 


That which humbles us may seem most cruel at the time but 
humility is worth much more than ruling the universe. Bali was a great 
devotee but he was also the king of the demons. He overcame the gods 
and ruled the heavens and the earth. His Guru was Shukra. The gods 
appealed to Lord Vishnu who, knowing Bali's unwavering generosity, 


Saturn, Shani 343 


appeared in the form of a Brahmin dwarf and asked for the land he could 
cover in three paces. Shukra saw through the trick and warned the king 
not to grant the wish. He foresaw exactly what would happen and said to 
the king, “This is Vishnu, he will cover the heavens with one pace, the 
earth with another and how will you grant him the third?” The king said 
he could not deny a Brahmin any gift asked for and he was not concerned 
with losing his kingdom. Shukra then cursed him to fall from his status 
for disregarding the advice of his Guru. The king granted the boon and 
when Shukra’s prophecy was fulfilled he offered his head for the third 
step. Even though he was forced into the lower realms by the pressure of 
the foot of the Lord he felt supremely blessed by that touch. In due time, 
the Lord gave him high sovereignty through a divine birth. 


Things are never what they appear to be especially in moments 
of great import and in the presence of exalted souls. Shukra, Venus, was 
right but he also was giving the advice from the worldly perspective - 
‘save your power and your wealth’ implying that those are more 
important than nobility and generosity. Bali's mind was purified by his 
devotion. This purity had attracted the object of his love. He was only 
capable of pure and noble acts and was not capable of the worldly 
evaluation urged by Venus. One should obey one’s Guru but the cost of 
disobedience in this case was only a worldly one. Neither the stick nor the 
carrot could sway Bali. 


Only those who are prepared, if necessary, to forgo everything 
that they have acquired through much labour and hardship in order to 
attain their next goal, attain that goal. The universe is constructed in such 
a way as to keep us on whatever level we are at by endless fascination 
and diversions. If these fail, then the next strategy to stop us moving 
towards God is fear and confusion. If that fails then we are offered 
delights of an increasingly unusual character, such as we could never 
obtain normally. If we accept, all progress ceases. Slavery returns. 


2 bt bat 

% NIAAA A: 

om jyesthapatnisametaya namah 

64. United (Sameta) with his wife (Patni) Jyestha. 


Use this name to meditate on Shani with his consort Jyestha. 
Jyestha means the eldest and can indicate a chief. Jyestha, the feminine 
form, is sometimes thought of as the sister of Lakshmi who is like an old 
crone or the Goddess of poverty. 


344 Yoga of the Planets 


Jyestha and its feminine Jyestha are thus quite mysterious. When 
Saturn is strong, it indicates his association with leadership as well as an 
orthodox view of marriage where the person sticks faithfully to the first 
spouse. If Saturn is afflicted, the indication is of poverty and a lack of 
marital satisfaction. 


The Nakshatra or lunar mansion of Jyestha calls us to make 
heroic efforts to rise above difficult obstacles. It comes at the end of 
Scorpio, which is the tenth sign from Saturn’s strongest sign, Aquarius. It 
therefore indicates the work and status that Saturn brings. 


3S 
30 ABTS 4A: 
om Sresthaya namah 


65. The most senior and excellent one (Shrestha). 


This uplifting name shows how a strong Saturn can give 
leadership, splendour and beauty. 


go Haalany aa: 


om mitabhasine namah 


66. One who speaks (Bhasin) little (Mita). 


Little means only as necessary. Those ruled by Saturn cannot 
indulge in much idle talk. They speak only when it is necessary to do so. 
Hence in places ruled by Saturn, such as monasteries, convents, churches 
and temples, we tend to keep silent and may observe a vow of silence. 
When meditating, the goal is to silence the inner voice of the mind so we 
can be still or hear more clearly the divine voice. Saints are often silent or 
if they speak, every word is full of significance. 


do BEATA AA: 
om kastaughanaSak4artre namah 


67, Causing the destruction (Ndsha Kartr) of a stream of evils (Kastaugha). 


Once again we get the clue that troubles do not come in ones, 
they come in a flood and he may cause this but can also save us from this. 


Saturn, Shani 345 


One implication is that one should not give up but work hard to get over 
one’s difficulties as this is Saturn's way. 


3 Gfeara aa: 


om pustidaya namah 


68. Nourishing and causing (Da) prosperity (Pustida). 


The stemming of the tide of evils releases nourishment. This 
mantra is also given as om Gryapustiddya namah, which means nourishing 
the (noble) people. 


What we see as evil is usually circumstances that cut off sources 
of nourishment, not just food but all kinds of resources, physical and 
emotional. A very strong influence of Saturn, especially on the Moon, can 
make us unconcerned about such things. That is how some people can 
walk out of their home renouncing everything. Hence Saturn is associated 
with renunciates. However, this name shows how he can also provide for 
us. In fact, it is this faith and the truth it embodies that sustains the 
renunciate. In the case of leaders who acquired their power through 
Saturn, he provides all kinds of nourishment. Even these people can have 
a kind of carelessness about sources of nourishment, often working long 
hours and neglecting food, water and emotional sustenance. One should 
take care. 


However, this is on the more mundane level. This series of 
names is unfolding a very high reality where subtle sources of 
nourishment are provided to the awakening consciousness as the next 
name shows. 


EI FH: 


om stutyaya namah 


69, Praiseworthy and praised (Stutya). 


That which ultimately nourishes are the Vedic hymns and all the 
mantras and verses of all religions. 


346 Yoga of the Planets 


$0 TARTAN Aa: 


om stotragamyaya namah 


70. Attained (Gamya) by [the reciting of] the hymns of praise (Stotra). 


Not only are the hymns nourishing but they are all we need to 
satisfy Shani and be completely freed from suffering. That is why the 
principle remedy for ignorance is the use of mantras and all religions 
have their practices. Many Muslims, I understand, recite the 99 names of 
Allah at every prayer time and Christians repeat short prayers while 
counting on a rosary. 


This practice is not confined to Catholics. | was brought up as an 
Anglican and was also given this advice. It is true that as one moves away 
in time from the founder of a religion, key practices may be lost. The early 
church had a particular prayer (mantra) that was whispered to each 
priest when he was consecrated. For more, see Mercury 102. 


It is interesting that the Gospel of Thomas describes Jesus 
whispering in the ear of his disciples and the profound effect this had. 
However, in that text it is stated that Jesus did not pass this knowledge 
on. The prayer referred to above is in Latin. Perhaps it was developed by 
the early disciples based on the guidance they were given rather than the 
exact blessing they personally received. 


go AAA AA: 


om bhaktivasyaya namah 


71. Attracted (Vashya) by devotion (Bhakti). 


His attention and blessings come to those who have the true 
spirit of devotion. Devotion is marked by humility and clarity of focus on 
that which is above the ordinary worldly things. A devotee does his duty 
in this world but knows where the real value lies. Those who are 
fascinated by a sense of their own greatness have forgotten what it really 
is in each and every being that is supremely great. They have forgotten 
that greatness has nothing to do with any individuality. ft is the essence 
of all things. That is why true humility is what marks a devotee, a 
Mahatma or great soul. 


Saturn, Shani 347 


do Waa FA: 
om bhanave namah 


72. The shining one. 


Bhanu is a name for the Sun, the father of Saturn. Astrologers 
would not normally think of Saturn as shining, but it does and when it 
functions through us we can also shine. This sequence of names shows 
how the aspirant rises higher and higher. 


go WMATA Aa: 


om bhanuputraya namah 


73. The son (Putra) of the Sun (Bhanu). 


The Sun's wife is called Praja (amongst other names) meaning 
the light of intelligence or consciousness. Her shadow, Chhaya, also bore 
two children through deceit, one of them was Shani (see also Saturn 22). 
So Saturn is born of the Sun or the Self but through its relationship with 
the shadow. Shani’s younger half-brother is Yama, the ruler of the 
underworld and determiner of our karmic rewards. 


Yama rules the second Nakshatra, Bharani, which is where 
Saturn is debilitated. Initially, Yama was elevated by his father leaving 
Shani feeling helpless and angry. Yama means contro] in the sense of 
natural discipline and when Saturn is weak, then maintaining order in life 
becomes harder. That is why one has to appeal to Yama to overcome the 
negatives of Shani. A strong influence of Shani can give a propensity for 
the disciplines known as ‘Yamas’ and certainly they greatly benefit the 
native. The usual list has five components: non-violence, truthfulness, 
non-stealing, celibacy or fidelity and non-greediness. It is said that Saturn 
‘waits for the first lie’. The lazy side of Saturn can lead one to be 
untruthful, unkind, etc. triggering many consequences. It is very wise not 
to start down that path, whatever the apparent cost. 


BVA AH: 


om bhavyaya namah 


74. Righteous (Bhavya), 


348 Yoga of the Planets 


Bhavya has many meanings. It means existence and that which is 
about to come into being. It suggests that which is fit, proper, excellent, 
favourable and auspicious. When strong, Saturn is all these things. 
However, whatever Saturn’s strength he always looks for us to follow his 
rules as we discussed under name 73. 


30 Ulaeta 4H: 


om pavanaya namah 


75, The purifier. 


Pavana is another name that reminds us of the purpose of those 
experiences that come due to Saturn's placement or transit in our chart. 
They may be difficult but we emerge purified if we are not embittered. 


So TAHVSSRA AA: 


om dhanurmandalasamsthaya namah 


76. Stationed (Samstha) on the symbol of a bow. 


Each Graha has a Mandala or symbol, and Shani’s is a bow 
(Dhanu). Sometimes, it is also a head while Mercury has a bow and arrow. 
These are used in making up Yantras or sacred diagrams for Pija. 


A bow is something that is bent. As the marker of old age and 
diseases like arthritis, Saturn is what bends us down. It is the great 
humbler. The root Dhan means ‘to cause to’. Saturn is the prime causative 
force of our heaviest experiences. A bow implies an arrow which can be 
said to be symbolic of going straight to the point or inflicting sharp pains 
as in the carrying of the Shila (see Mars 77 and Rahu 24). It may hurt but 
Saturn can help us by severing the bondage which constricts us. 


3 FAlaly AA: 


om dhanadaya namah 


77. Giving (Da) wealth. 


Dhana means that which is dear to us. He gives it to us when he is 
pleased with the sacrifice of our egotistical tendencies. Saturn makes us 
work hard and persistently, which is how most things are attained. 


Saturn, Shani 349 


Indeed, a weak Saturn makes it difficult to work steadily and that makes 
it hard to get anywhere in life. One may get the urge to give up before the 
job is done or the course is finished, a tendency to be overcome with 
mental effort and prayer. 


This name is sandwiched between two that refer to the word 
Dhanur. This name has the word Dhana so one might ask whether there is 
any connection. Both derive from the root ‘Dhan’, to cause to run or move 
quickly. Dhanur is that which causes something, the arrow, to run quickly 
and Dhana is the prize that one gets for running, as in winning a race or 
conquering wealth through one’s efforts or arms. From this comes the 
sense of bearing fruit. Thus we can deduce that the wealth and benefits 
that Shani gives are a result of our efforts and our accuracy - efficiency 
and effectiveness in doing what we are doing. Shani should not be 
expected to give wealth for no effort or just casual effort. Some service 
has to be provided and the best wealth comes in return for real service. If 
we do something that makes others grateful, then the wealth they give us 
will stay with us and nourish us. It comes witha blessing. 


Other types of wealth evaporate fast. Bad money is very 
poisonous. It comes with the pain of those who suffered as a result of the 
making of it. The ancient laws say that if money is 10% bad, 10% must be 
given away; if 50% bad, 50% should be donated; if it comes from 
criminal, poisonous or highly exploitative activities, do not keep a penny. 
Itcan seriously damage one and more especially one’s family. 


do TH AA: 


om dhanusmate namah 


78. Bent (Dhanusman). 


Literally possessing a bow or that which is bent. Saturn’s 
influence can produce a physical stoop or a mental sense of burden or 
inadequacy. The bending and stretching of Yoga Asanas are very helpful 
as we get older and Shani’s influence is more intense. There is a famous 
saying that, in the face of a powerful wind, small trees break, great trees 
bend. 


350 Yoga of the Planets 


do AAAS AA: 


om tanuprakasadehaya namah 


79. his body has a subtle radiance. 


Literally, having a thin (Tanu) shining (Prakdsha) body (Deha). 
Shani being the most distant of the visible planets has a ‘finer’ light. 
Austerities, such as meditation, which Shani signifies, refine the aura and 
make it luminous. That luminosity is very fine or very extended, another 
meaning derived from the root ‘Tan’. The aura expands. The word Tantra 
can mean liberation (Tra) that comes through vast expansion or 
stretching (Tan). Tantra is never purely a function of Venus. Saturn is the 
main player along with Ketu but the Bhakti (devotion) Venus gives is 
essential. 


3 AAA Aa: 
om tamasaya namah 


80. Dark coloured (Tamasa). 


Tamas is the third of the three gunas or qualities of nature: 
Sattva or purity, Rajas or activity, and Tamas or inertia or dullness. Each 
planet is assigned to one of these. Saturn, Mars, Rahu and Ketu are said to 
be Tamas. Inattention, carelessness and the like are the result of Tamas. 
Under the influence of Tamas we can make poor decisions, give 
inadequate advice, and so forth. Planets are deeply influenced by the sign 
in which they are placed. If Saturn is ina sign owned by a Sattvic planet 
(Jupiter, the Sun and the Moon) then it is much less associated with 
Tamas. Of course, we must weigh all the other influences as well. 


It is said, the good die young. One reason for this could be, and | 
have seen a few such cases, that the soul lives through the periods of the 
Sattvic planets and is simply too good to continue when these end, In 
other words, had the person lived, his or her reputation would have 
declined and that was not their destiny. 


There are many things in the universe that are naturally Tamas 
and have to be represented by a planet. This is no degradation of that 
planet’s divine nature. Lord Shiva is famous for living almost naked, 
covered in ash, on the cremation grounds but he is ever in exalted 
wakeful consciousness. Lord Vishnu is covered in silks and jewels but is 
sleeping (as Lord Narayana, the basis of the universe). Shiva is said to be 
Tamas on the outside and Sattva on the inside. Lord Vishnu is said to be 


Saturn, Shani 351 


Sattva on the outside and Tamas on the inside. These are not judgments, 
just ways of teaching so people understand everything has its place. 
Without sleep (Tamas for the body), wakefulness (Rajas and Sattva) 
could not be sustained. 


Mercury (money and intellect) and Venus (passion) are 
associated with Rajas. 


SRSA AA: 
om aSsesajanavandyaya namah 


81. Fit to be worshipped (Vandya) by all the people (Jana) or by 
the people who are of untainted consciousness and conscience. 


Ashesa Jana can mean all the people or the perfected ones. Both 
are true but the nature of the worship is quite different. The perfected 
ones have no anxiety, no guilt. Guilt is the memory of a mistake. The 
ancient law book, the Manu Smriti, says that if one feels guilty, one should 
do some penance until the feeling goes away. 1 once was sitting on a 
railway platform. Across from me was a couple with their teenage son in 
between them. He was trying to bite himself and they were trying to 
restrain him. This made me realize that one can be born with a heavy 
sense of guilt but in a loving family. One feels one should be punished but 
no one punishes you so one starts to punish oneself. How else are we to 
explain such cases? Obviously, the parents were doing the right thing but 
for those of us who carry much lesser loads, some deliberate 
inconvenience can be undertaken. For example, one can fast every 
Saturday (for those who can do so safely). [t is the genius of Manu that 
gave us this wonderful formula including how to know when to stop. If 
one feels no sense of guilt, then there is no need to fast Whatever one 
takes on, it should be proportionate and not damaging to health or 
survival. Even if the load feels great, it is better to keep the inconvenience 
limited and manageable. 


The sou! cannot be polluted but the mind can harbour painful 
memories. If one commits a crime and then honestly admits to it, already 
most of the taint has gone. After such admission and passing through 
whatever punishment is given by society or one’s spiritual mentor, one 
becomes free. There is a wonderful movie about a boxer who was jailed 
on entirely false charges (see The Hurricane). From a young age, he was 
sent to institutions for no real fault of his own. He was full of hate and this 
made him fight hard and become a champion. It’s a true story and in the 
movie we see how, after many years in jail and rejection of all his appeals 


352 Yoga of the Planets 


by an apparently corrupt or racist State system, he had an epiphany and 
lost his hate. He became very sweet. At this point his case was brought 
before a Federal judge who released him. After the movie, there was an 
interview with the actual person and he was an even more shining 
example of goodness than his portrayal in the film. Outer freedom quickly 
followed inner freedom. Divine justice manages everything. 


do faaianmaleatd a: 
om visesaphaladayine namah 


82. Giving (Dayin) excellent results. 


Those fruits (Phala) have a peculiar (Vishesa) merit. Once one 
knows the Real, the Self, then something very special comes about that no 
ordinary ego could possibly accomplish. It may be very quiet or very 
visible but itis in no way ordinary. 


s N 
$0 afar AA: 
om vasikrtajanesaya namah 


83. The greatest (/sha) amongst those (fana) who bring people under his 
control (Vashi Kr). 


In the great epic, the Ramayana, we find the story of the demon 
king Ravana who had become the overlord of everything in creation. He 
had even subjugated the nine Vedic planets, it is said, and made them lie 
down on the steps of his throne facing down so he would walk over them 
when ascending. 


There are two illuminating stories here. In one, when Ravana’'s 
son was to be born, he ordered all the planets to assemble in the eleventh 
house. It is said that if all the Grahas are in the eleventh house, the person 
born will be invincible. However, at the moment of the birth Ravana was 
distracted and Saturn put one foot into the twelfth house. This ensured 
that, even though his son would be great, he would eventually be 
defeated. It is said that Ravana retaliated by cutting off Saturn’s foot 
making him lame and hence slow moving. 


In the other story, the great celestial sage Narada, who wanders 
around the universe stirring things up, came to visit Ravana. Seeing the 
Grahas lying face down before the throne he started to pump Ravana’s 
sense of self-importance. “It is all very well having them facing down like 


Saturn, Shani 353 


this, but imagine the pleasure you would have standing on their faces!” 
Ravana got deluded by his words and turned Shani over. The moment 
Saturn's gaze fell on him, bad luck gripped him and everything started to 
unravel as Narada intended. Such is the fruit of being too full of ourselves. 


do Oat Waa AA: 
om pastinain pataye namah 


84. PashuPati, the lord (Pati) of those in ignorance (Pashdndin). 


Pashu means a fettered animal, so those who are led by their 
animal nature are said to be Pashu. We could also say that our senses and 
the body are Pashu and the witness of them, the higher consciousness 
(Shiva), is the lord of them. PashuPati literally means ‘the lord of the 
fettered animals’, and is a famous name of Lord Shiva. 


This could also refer to one who owns and therefore keeps under 
control many animals indicating wealth. Wealth can be measured by how 
much energy one controls. This was measured in people, slaves and 
servants, as well as beasts of burden who gave their energy for the 
comfort and projects of their master. Now the wealthy have big 
limousines, private jets and yachts. They stil! have multiple servants for 
those tasks that require more intelligence than a machine can provide. If 
Saturn associates with the indicators of wealth in one’s Vedic chart, one 
may have many helpers or employees. 


As long as one is a Pashu, Saturn is one’s lord and the tradition of 
bondage continues. If one knows the immortal unchanging field of 
consciousness, then one is no longer a Pashu. It all depends on how deep 
that knowledge is. Mere glimpses only reduce the suffering. As long as the 
body is there, some trace of the Pashu remains, 


Ho CN AA: 
om khecaraya namah 


85. Moving (Chara) in space (Khe). 


Saturn moves through the heavens and it indicates Vayu, who is 
the very principle of movement. 


354 Yoga of the Planets 


$0 TTA AA: 
om khagesaya namah 


86. The lord (/sha) of those who move through space (Khaga). 


Kha is a cavity or space, which can be taken as outer space or 
inner space. Khaga is a clear reference to the planets. Saturn is their lord 
because he is the leader in determining and delivering karmic 
consequences. 


Hi TANNA TH: 
om phananttambaraya namah 


87. Whose clothes (Ambara) are a deep blue. 


Ghana Nila indicates a very intense blue or dark colour. When 
looking for a blue sapphire as a gem to strengthen Saturn, we might bear 
this in mind. The great physicist, Stephen Hawking, showed that black 
holes, the most powerful and incomprehensible things in the universe, 
are not black but actually alittle blue. That is, they do radiate a little. They 
are usually surrounded by intense radiation but that comes from the 
matter outside of the hole. Even that radiates at very high energies far 
beyond ultra-violet (extreme blue). This name could also mean a deep or 
dark blue sky, like one that threatens a great storm. 


do HISAR AA: 


om kathinyamanasaya namah 


88. Of stern (Ka@thinya) mind (Mdnasa). 


This also indicates one of firm character which can include a 
mental rigidity or stiffness or even one who thinks in an obscure way. 
Rather than repeating this name, it is better to contemplate the message 
in it 


$0 TRUE aH: 


om 4ryaganastutyaya namah 


Saturn, Shani 355 


89. Praised (Stutya) by the noble people. 


The Arya are the noble or civilized people. Gana is a collection or 
community. It has been suggested that this word indicates the citizenry of 
an agrarian community as opposed to hunter gatherers. Whatever the 
original meaning, we can say that Shani gets the populist vote. It 
represents democracy, while the Sun, Moon and Mars are royalists. 
Royalty can also mean small rulers like a larger landowner or the owner 
of a corporation. 


We can easily see how political parties down the ages have 
represented more or less one camp or the other. If Saturn’s party rises, 
we are afraid of Tamas taking over; if one of the others rises, we fear the 
cruelty of Rajas. The Sattvic people mind their own business but create a 
very soothing air. If destiny takes a good turn, then we get a Rajasic 
leader who has a Sattvic advisor. It is certainly true that atl things big and 
small are in the hands of Cosmic Intelligence and Cosmic Intelligence is 
perfectly just. It also protects the humble of heart as we see repeatedly in 
these names. 


0 VOI AA: 


om nilacchatraya namah 


90. Having a dark blue (Nila) umbrella (Chhatra). 


In the ancient days, an umbrella was a sign of royalty. It was 
typically made of silk and encrusted with jewels. It was not to protect 
from the rain. Shani’s colour is a dark blue and being a great lord, he has a 
royal umbrella. Nila can extend to black or dark-green. 


jo frreara Aa: 


om nityaya namah 


91, Eternal (Nitya). 


This is the second appearance of this name (Saturn 28}. The 
repetition indicates both an emphasis and another important meaning. In 
28 we mentioned the sense of obligatory duties. Here, we could take it as 
indicating the constant dwelling on the Highest. This is the real meaning 
of devotion. Devotion is not fickle. Sometimes Saturn is associated with 
the heart Chakra where the wind or Vayu element resides. Saturn rules 


356 Yoga of the Planets 


over wind but in the heart, apart from constant beating to keep us alive, it 
also represents steadfastness of devotion. 


3 Pore aa: 


om nirgunaya namah 


92. Beyond or free (Nir) from the taint of the qualities (Guna) of the world. 


This is the nature of pure consciousness. Something with 
qualities can be described. Really nothing can be said of that which has no 
qualities or is the sum of all qualities. Quantum theory sees the Unified 
field, the source of everything, as the sum total of all possibilities. We can 
only say that it is without qualities and That is what you and I really are. 
Not Mr Y or Ms X, but the qualityless, nameless and eternally free Self. 


$0 TTA AA: 


om gunatmane namah 


93. His soul (Atma) is possessed of all the (good) qualities (Guna). 


What makes a person possessed of good qualities? The purity of 
his or her consciousness. If the inner being is free of anger, greed, etc. 
then the behaviour in the world is good. This name has to follow the 
previous as one is based on the other. If we want to have good and noble 
qualities, first we must know our Self, which is free of all qualities. Then 
we cease to be addicted to this or that quality or concept and rest. 
internally in peace. From that, nobility and all goodness naturally arise. 


 feereara aa: 
om-mramayaya namah 


94. Free (Nir) from disease or hurt. 


Ama (pronounced ‘aama’) is toxicity in the body and Amaya is 
what comes from it. The Ayurvedic system of Panchakarma is designed to 
clear the Ama from the body. It is a form of austerity as one has to bear 
with a restricted diet and other measures. However, the results are 
wonderful if done in a thorough way. Many clinics now offer individual! 
components of the treatment, which are good but not as profound as a 


Saturn, Shani 357 


complete holistic treatment. This requires at least five and preferably 
more days of attendance, while taking complete rest. 


qq FA: 
om nandyaya namah 


95. Deserving of appreciation, happiness and satisfaction (Nandya}. 


This is the result of complete peace of mind and heart, true bliss. 
If one attains Pure Consciousness in meditation or at any time, then one 
can be truly joyful. If Panchakarma (see Saturn 94) is done thoroughly 
and one takes proper rest afterwards there should be a sense of deep 
satisfaction. 


$ declare Aa: 
om vandantyaya namah 


96. Worthy of respect (Vandaniya). 


Even adorable in the sense of how the public adores a great 
leader or followers appreciate a leader who looks after their interest with 
care and concern. 


do YRS AA: 


om dhiraya namah 


97. That which lasts long (Dhira). 


Saturn’s cycle (Dasha) lasts for 19 years. Since every moment is 
under his discipline even his shorter subcycles or transits can seem very 
long, He also represents old and durable things. 


om divyadehaya namah 


98. Having a divine body (Divya Deha). 


358 Yoga of the Planets 


Saturn rules over coarse and unrefined things and can make us 
wear torn and old clothes but, in dignity, he can make us very refined. 
Saturn gets dignity by being strong and well placed in the Vedic chart.. 


% Hafdacora 7A: 


om dinartiharanaya namah 


99, Removing (Harana) misery, scarcity (Dina) and pain (Arti). 


This could be a good mantra for those who feel they are suffering 
under the influence of Shani. 


8 oT AA: 


om dainyanaSakaraya namah 


100. The one who completely destroys (Ndsakara) poverty, depression 
and misery (Dainya). 


Saturn can relieve the sense of poverty in various ways. When 
strong, wealth often accumulates. When it delivers tough experiences it 
encourages the rise of dispassion, which is most profound in a completely 
tranquil heart. Such a heart knows no poverty. 


Poverty comes from scarcity. From a mundane point of view, we 
see the socialist tendency, which, when genuinely applied, largely 
removes the worst of poverty. The sharing of wealth has been a theme of 
all successful societies. In the ancient days, from time to time, the kings 
would distribute all the wealth in the treasury. This gave a huge boost to 
the economy and soon the treasury recovered. Some Roman emperors 
gave one gold coin to every soldier. As the soldiers were stationed 
everywhere in the Empire, this had the same effect. 


If wealth is recycled, then everyone prospers. The current 
decline in the standard of living of the bulk of the people could wel! be 
due to wealthy companies and individuals retaining their wealth and not 
spending it. Investing it in job creation projects is excellent but certain 
other types of investment extract even more money from the collective 
pool, which further hampers the popular economy. The lobbying of 
politicians by their sponsors tu reduce taxes on the wealthy leads to even 
less recycling. It is fortunate that some billionaires are working to 
distribute their wealth productively by backing many worthwhile causes. 


Saturn, Shani 359 


A negative characteristic of Saturn is meanness. This mantra can 
act as an antidote. 


do Tawa aA: 


om aryajanaganyaya namah 


101. Indicating the gathering (Ganya) of noble people (Arya Jana), 


We saw that such people praise him (see Shani 88). Here we 
learn that he represents the people themselves, especially as they group 
together, This gives the sense of a parliament and emphasizes the 
connection with democracy. 


HUA AA: 


om kriraya namah 


102. Cruel (Krura). 


We talk of ‘cruel fate’. Everything is as it should be but from our 
limited perspective it often seems cruel. Those who have Saturn in the 
first house of their chart may feel a tendency to be stern or even cruel or 
may be thought of as such by others. This is modified by the sign of the 
Ascendant and other planets involved. 


The path of Saturn is two-fold. Firstly, one must take care to be 
kind and not give sorrow to others. Secondly, one must rise above sorrow 
oneself. Meditation helps greatly with both. This is important advice for 
those who have Shani as their AtmaKaraka (soul significator, see Sun 12) 
or in some way strong in the chart. We should not forget the human 
tendency to be blind to our own deficiencies. 


Rather than repeating this name, it is better to contemplate the 
message in it. 


do HCAS AA: 


om kriracestaya namah 


103. Whose movements (Chesta) are crue] or formidable (Krira). 


360 Yoga of the Planets 


The sense of this is that he advances in an unalterable way 
without any regard for the feelings of those affected. The transits of 
Saturn can feel like this. Acceptance is the antidote to any suffering, 
Rather than repeating this name, it is better to contemplate the message 
in it. 


$0 HATTA AA: 


om kamakrodhakaraya namah 


104. Causing (Kara) desire (Kama) and anger (Krodha). 


In the Bhagavad Gita (3:37, 2:62-63), Lord Krishna says “Desire 
and anger are the enemies in this world.” “Through desire comes anger 
and through anger our clarity of mind is lost and through this our very 
life breath can be destroyed.” It is well known that if you can make a 
person angry, they are likely to destroy themselves, Calm-headed people 
are good leaders. Rather than repeating this name, it is better to 
contemplate the message in it. 


$0 FOAPAAASIT AA: 


om kalatraputrasatrutvakaranaya namah 


105. Causing (Kdrana) enmity (Shatrutva) with spouse (Kalatra) and 
children (Putra). 


This is what comes of Kama and Krodha. They are the source of 
all conflicts. When Saturn transits the seventh house of marriage, the sign 
opposite the Ascendant, there is a risk of separation in our relationship. 
We should try to avoid issues related to inappropriate desire and anger. 
The difficulty will pass with the transit. Of course, separation can also be 
caused by other transits, placements and combinations, Rather than 
repeating this name, it is better to contemplate the message in it. 


do Waar AA: 
om paripositabhaktaya namah 


106. Fully nourishing (Pariposita) the devotees(Bhakta). 


Saturn, Shani 361 


He is constantly caring for them. After telling us about his 
cruelty, we are assured that if we follow the true path, quite the opposite 
will befall us. 


de FORE FA: 


om parabhitiharaya namah 


107. Destroying (Hara) the fear (Bhiti) of others (Para). 


Once we know that our Self is the Self of all, then the question of 
fear of any other does not arise. There is simply no other to fear. It is said, 
‘Dwitiydd bhayam bhavati’, which means that fear arises from the sense of 
duality or difference. That sense has to be removed at its root to be free 
from fear. Knowing the essential oneness does not remove the experience 
of difference. Only the oneness is seen as predominant or ‘real’ while the 
diversity is secondary or ‘unreal’. 


Philosophers dispute about reality and unreality, but the 
predominance of Oneness is what anyone who comes to that level of 
experience plainly knows, The different philosophies either come from 
different levels of experience or it is just semantics. The ‘unreal’ is still 
real within its sphere; it is said to be unreal because its sphere is seen as 
secondary. 


go THAT AA: 

om bhaktasarnghamanobhistaphaladaya namah 

108, Granting (Da) the objects (Phala) of the desires in the minds 
(Manobhista) of the whole company of devotees (Bhakta Samgha). 


This name reminds us that Saturn represents the collective. [f 
society follows the path of goodness and nobility then he ensures 
everyone enjoys the fulfilment of all their desires. Heaven really can be 
found on Earth. 


aaa 


Om tat sat 


362 Yoga of the Planets 


i — 


FER 7* ph rea 
Yep 
| aa Bee 


Rahu, the North Node 


Rahu, the North Node 363 


RAHU, THE NORTH NODE 


do Wed AR: 
om rahave namah 


1. Salutations to the one who hides the Sun. 


Rahu and Ketu are the eclipse points, where the orbit of the 
Moon crosses the path of the Sun. Everything about them is rooted in 
humanity’s experience of these great phenomena, Awe and fear. Shock 
and surprise. This is the glory of the nodes of the Moon. 


Hu hides Ra, the creative vibration. Ra is the giver, the one who 
bestows life. Hu is to eat but also to offer or present to the sacrificial fire, 
Ra. The life force is offered back to Agni, the fire of consciousness. This is 
how it appears hidden but is in fact deepening. This is why Jupiter's 
planetary cycle (Dasha) follows Rahu’s. 


The mirage-chasing of Rahu, where we seem to forget who we 
really are, truly serves as a sacrificial offering of our individual creativity. 
This is first magnified in Rahu’s period, as the fire glows when ghee is 
offered into it. Then it appears to dissolve as it merges with the universal 
creativity or the essence of truth and becomes Jupiter’s divine wisdom. 
This is a great blessing rooted in Rahu’s energy. 


As we proceed through the mantras or names of Rahu, we will 
see that some have obviously uplifting meanings while others appear 
quite dark. Like the name Rahu itself, there are two sides of the same 
coin. Rahu plays devil’s advocate but is also a critical component of 
creation and spiritual awakening. That is why fear, Rahu’s most obvious 
signification, is a paper tiger. {t is there to divert us from the path but it 
has no power to do so unless we take it at its face value. 


When we come across a darker meaning, let us try to fathom its 
revelatory side. For example, Rahu can be like a storm but storms blow 
away much that needs to go and after it passes, the air is fresh. 


364 Yoga of the Planets 


do Gea aa: 


om saimhikeyaya namah 


2. The son of Simhika. 


Simhika was a demonness. Rahu is born from the semen of a 
great Brahmin saint and the womb of a demon. Thus, he is both divine 
and demonic in his action. 


Simhi means a lioness. The lion symbolizes rulership, which is 
the power that controls life and death. The Sanskrit word for lion or Leo 
is Simha. It is derived from the word Himsa, injury and violence, by a 
reversal that gives it the power to protects its pride (family and people). 


The Goddess Durga rides on a lion and is worshipped to control 
the negative effects of Rahu. Leo is said to be where the Moon was placed 
when Rahu was born making this his birth sign (Rahu 68). In India, your 
birth sign or Janma Rashi is the zodiacal sign in which the Moon is placed 
at birth. Similarly, the Janma Nakshatra is the star group in which the 
Moon was placed at birth. 


The Janma Nakshatra can determine the name one is given, at 
least the first syllable, and is mentioned whenever one performs any 
special rites. One’s day-to-day destiny is based on this amongst other 
things. For example, certain stars counted from one’s birth star are 
considered auspicious while others are difficult. In Jyotisha, this theory is 
known as Tara Bala or the strength due to the stars. This is discussed in 
depth in the Chapter on Secrets of the Vimshottari Dasha, 


Leo is the place of the king. Rahu is the great manipulator and 
represents the leading politicians like the cabinet of the king. Rahu rules 
over brilliant strategies, scheming and all the abuses of power. Leo is also 
fourth (the house of the mother) from Taurus where Rahu is at a high 
point as the accumulator and manipulator of wealth. Like all the Grahas, 
Rahu has a sign in which its archetype shines brightest termed the place 
of exaltation. For many scholars, this is Taurus. Others say that it is 
powerful in Taurus but gives its peak effect for most worldly affairs in 
Gemini. Taurus is the place of wealth, while Gemini is the place of 
academic debate. Rahu love debates as he always has a counter argument. 


The other two angles or Kendras from Taurus and Leo are the 
signs Scorpio and Aquarius which are the signs owned by Ketu and Rahu 
respectively. These four are the fixed signs and all are intimately 
associated with the nodes and their powers. {n the ancient text, the 
Jaimini Upadesha Sttras, the fixed signs are shown to behave in a reverse 
way from the other signs in certain circumstances, just as the nodes are 


Rahu, the North Node 365 


retrograde in their motion. For example, Taurus is an even sign but acts 
like an odd sign in matters of Dharma. 


do fNRqaya TA: 


om vidhuntudaya namah 


3. The agitator of the mind or Moon 


Rahu never lets you settle. Whatever he touches gets stirred up 
and transformed. This is mentioned right at the beginning of the names 
and is one of the primary qualities of Rahu. 


Rahu rules over troubles and irritating insects like mosquitoes. 
In the previous name, we saw that Rahu can be controlled by Durga, the 
Mother Goddess. When I was in Hong Kong, there was an area with a 
serious malaria problem. They were not spraying due to insufficient 
funds. However, a campaign to improve cleantiness and hygiene including 
removing standing water virtually eliminated the incidence of the 
disease. These are the kind of things every mother knows and pays 
attention to. Similarly, social agitations cannot flourish if the government 
cares well for its people. In our global society, those living in poverty and 
war zones should not be forgotten. Social welfare is a natural maternal 
function. 


Society and motherhood are indicated by the Moon. It is a 
fundamental rute of Jyotisha that the Moon is the one who can fight Rahu. 
Rahu can block Mars, which represents the military and police. 
Governments with a terrorism problem should think about this carefully. 


Mantras like this that seem negative need a special approach. 
Please see Rahu 1 and read the section Caveat on page 9 in the Chapter on 
Find your Personal Mantras. 


% Gard 7A: 


om surasatrave namah 


4. The enemy (Shatru) of the gods (Sura), the drinkers of the nectar. 


The story goes that the gods were seeking the nectar of 
immortality. This had to be obtained by churning the ocean (of 
consciousness) but they could not accomplish this alone. So they made a 
deceitful alliance with the demons, promising to share the nectar. Neither 


366 Yoga of the Planets 


party had any intention of sharing but they postponed the fight until the 
nectar emerged. Together, they used the king of the serpents, Vasuki, as a 
churning rope. The demons grabbed the head thinking it was more 
prestigious without considering the poisonous fumes they would have to 
bear. This is a lesson on egotism. The gods took the tail and they started 
to churn using the great mountain Meru. In Sanskrit, the story is called 
the Samudra Manthana, literally the churning of the ocean. 


There are many details to this highly symbolic story but 
eventually the great divine sage Dhanvantari appeared holding the jar of 
nectar. The fight started and in fear of losing it, the gods appealed to Lord 
Vishnu for help. Vishnu became Mohini, the most entrancing female form, 
which confused even Shiva. The demons lost all sense of their own well- 
being and handed over the nectar to Her to distribute. She had them all 
line up, the gods first, and started to give the nectar to the gods. 


The other demons were waiting at the end of the line but one 
sneaked in between the Sun and the Moon and received a few drops of 
the nectar. The luminaries saw the deception and alerted Vishnu who 
immediately severed the head of the demon. The other demons watched 
this and yet remained deluded - so great was their fascination with 
Mohint's form that they could not take in the obvious nature of the 
treachery. The demon whose head was severed became Rahu (the head) 
and Ketu (the body) and both were rendered immortal by the touch of 
the nectar. In revenge, they continue endlessly to eclipse the Sun and the 
Moon. 


This story has many deep meanings. One inference is that Rahu 
represents the head or the egoistic tendencies. Ketu is headless and 
therefore represents mistakes as well as surrender and spirituality. We 
will see more as we proceed through the names. 


a N 
daa 4k: 
om tamase namah 


5. Dark. 


As a mere point in the sky he cannot be seen. He is of the nature 
of Tamas - dullness, laziness, carelessness and inertia. Like Saturn (see 
Saturn 80), Rahu contributes an influence of Tamas to whatever it is 
associated with in the chart. One important example is when Rahu is 
close to the Sun. The Sun represents our deepest sense of self and it isa 
luminous Sattvic Graha. Sattva is purity, cleanness and wakefulness. 
Those with Rahu conjoined the Sun may have issues with their father or 


Rahu, the North Node 367 


feel or sense that some shadow has invaded their soul. This can cause a 
focus on pursuing detox programs, therapies, and meditation. 


This is good, but the resolution of this has to be within 
consciousness. The true Self is beyond light and darkness and is only 
known when these seeming opposites are integrated. Rahu is a great 
amplifier so it breaks our boundaries, our identifications as an ego, and 
can give us unbounded awareness. This combination is found in the birth 
charts of many great saints. Something that can cause self-doubt and even 
deep seated fears, can also be a profound blessing especially if Jupiter is 
strong and well-placed. Then the combination is surely divine. Other 
placements of Jupiter combined with the joining of Sun and Rahu can 
motivate someone into politics. There is an urge to prove one’s worth and 
if well placed and supported, this can lead to great achievements. Many 
famous politicians have this combination. 


Rahu causes fear and the usual response to fear is to try to 
control oneself and one’s environment. This tends to make things worse. 
The remedy is to relax inside of the fear. If we feel turbulence, it is best to 
maintain the intention of relaxing inside of it Allow it to flow through us, 
like a breaking fever. Gradually we can succeed. 


3 ita Aa: 
om phanine namah 


6. A hooded serpent (Phanin). 


Here is the first clue to the relationship of Rahu and Ketu to the 
subtle nervous system. Ketu is the tail of the serpent and is thus related to 
the base of the spine, while Rahu is the hooded head that is like the top of 
the spine and the brain. This is the principal pathway of the Kundalini 
energy, the subtle power which resides at the base and can rise up to 
grant unified consciousness. Here we have a very important point. The 
Sun represents truth and pure consciousness while Rahu and Ketu rule 
over the spiritual experiences. This includes all the experiences of the 
Chakras and various states of consciousness, everything other than pure 
Being itself. Pure Being is not an experience, it is just Being itself. The 
position and movement in transit of the nodes, trigger these experiences. 
Thus they rise and fade but can leave a lasting impression. For truth, 
Being has to be enough. 


368 Yoga of the Planets 


‘ £ 
HD MAF AA: 
om gargyayanaya namah 


7. Belonging to the clan or followers of Gargi, 


Gargydyana literally means the movement of Gargi (or Gargya). 
the path or teaching of Gargi or taking Gargi as one's refuge. Gargi was an 
astronomer and an astrologer. [n ancient times, the two were separate 
sections of the same science. Newton, Kepler and other astronomers were 
astrologers. Astronomy was driven by the need to calculate the planetary 
positions to predict the seasons and mundane events. It could also refer 
to Gargi who was an enlightened sage who cognized several of the Rig 
Vedic hymns. She, like Gargi, was a descendent of the ancient seer Garga, 
who wrote a great astronomical and astrological treatise, the Garga 
Samhita. His followers and descendants could be called Gargyas. The 
Vishnu Purana tells us that sage Garga gave the name to Shri Krishna. It 
also explains that Krishna’s appearance was foretold by the old sage 
Gargya who the translator identifies with Garga. Thus, this name shows 
that Rahu can represent scientists, philosophers and especially Jyotishis. 


Garga can mean a bull which makes us think of Taurus. This is a 
very strong place for Rahu (Rahu 2) so, like a bull, its transit through 
there shakes the world. It activates many chaotic elements in many 
arenas. Rahu is seen as a source of terror because his placement and 
movement stirs up our world, causing fear. In Leo he can cause the people 
to revolt against the establishment. He is powerful in Gemini and Taurus 
and can become violent in Aries if incited due to the association with 
Mars, Aries’ ruler. The present phase of turmoil in the Middle East started 
when Rahu entered Gemini on the last day of July 2000. The ‘Second 
Intifada’ started in September. 


Krittika, which lies principally in Taurus, is the Nakshatra of fire 
and electricity. After Rahu entered this in February 2003, we saw the 
worst blackouts and forest fires in living memory. All of North East USA, 
London and much of Italy lost power. In fact, hardly a place on the planet 
was completely unaffected by power cuts, Entering watery Pisces in April 
2005 he stirred up the ocean and that was a terrible year for hurricanes 
including Hurricane Katrina. [n short, Rahu moves striking precisely 
those things indicated by the sign and Nakshatra he has entered. This can 
be a blessing because it reveals areas of weakness or neglect and initiates 
change. 


Rahu stirs up the rigidities that can be a block to individual and 
social growth. In the extreme case, this can be expressed through 
revolutions or even terrorism. As the Moon controls Rahu, having leaders 


Rahu, the North Node 369 


with pure hearts and clear minds can stop the violence. Social 
disturbances will only stop through a softening of the consciousness due 
to acts of kindness, generosity and cooperation. 


It is possible that this name may be a corruption of Gargarayana, 
Gargari is a churn, Gargara is churning or a whirlpool or eddy. Ayana is 
movement, hence the name means the churning motion or the movement 
of a whirlpool. This is exactly how Rahu is. 


$0 GUNA AA: 
om suraraye namah 


8. The enemy (Aré) of the gods (Sura). 


Divinity, religion and thus the ‘gods’ are indicated by Sagittarius, 
the ninth sign, or the ninth house of the Vedic chart. Sagittarius’ enemies 
(Ari) are seen in the sixth house from it, which is Taurus, the exaltation 
sign of Rahu just referred to (see Rahu 2 and 7). If we say, as many 
scholars believe, that Gemini is the exaltation of Rahu (see Rahu 2), this is 
also the Badhaka or blocking place for Sagittarius. The blocking place and 
its associated planets are the natural enemies as they tend to oppose 
what that sign, here Sagittarius, represents, Here, the word enemy need 
not suggest something negative. Different signs represent different points 
of view and they all contribute to our world. This is the standard 
translation taken in Jyotisha, However, Ari can also mean faithful or 
attached. This shows how Rahu can play the villian or the hero as he 
wishes. 


So alesse AA: 


om nilajimitasarnkasaya namah 


9. Like (Samkasha) a blue or dark cloud (Nila Jimita). 


In English, we speak of being ‘under a dark cloud’ so it is an 
intuitive concept. Rahu can represent scandal, which puts our reputation 
under a cloud. It also throws a dark cloud over clarity of thought. During 
the cycles of Rahu, one has difficulty seeing clearly. This is a consequence 
of the Tamasic effect but Rahu is worse for this than Saturn. Seeing 
clearly is a function of Sattva as we saw under Jupiter. 


370 Yoga of the Planets 


On the other hand, Rahu can give us visions. With the right 
combinations, these can be divine. He can also show us things that come 
with the dark cloud like collective disasters as well as ghosts, aliens, 
indeed anything that is strange and unknown. The greatest cloud ta 
consciousness is fear. It can shut us down if we Jet it and Rahu is the 
principal indicator of what we fear. 


do AA aa: 


om caturbhujaya namah 


10. Four-armed (Chatur-Bhuja). 


The next three names, Rahu 11-13, explain what he has in his 
hands 


$0 BHASHANY AA: 


om khangakhetakadharine namah 


11. Carrying (Dharin) a sword and a shield. 


Khanga is a sword and Kheraka is a shield. The sword cuts 
through the web of sins and ignorance. It cuts off the head (ego). Rahu 
can promote egotism often followed by humiliation. The higher one’s 
head rises, the easier it is for him to get aclean stroke in. If we try to fight 
back, we face his shield. 


do AETHER TA: 


om varadayakahastakaya namah 


12. One hand (Hastaka) is signalling his readiness to give boons 
(Yaradayaka). 


Rahu has one hand free to bless and reward those following the 
path of goodness and truth. When we are gifted with his presence, we 
should try to honour him and pray for grace. He is ready to bless us if we 
are sufficiently humble and respectful. This mantra could be especially 
helpful because it activates that aspect of his. 


His presence is indicated by fear shaking our hearts. | am 
reminded of the story of a friend who was reaching the top of Kodachadri, 


Rahu, the North Node 371 


a holy mountain in India. As he came over the rise, he was faced with a 
king cobra reared up. The Cobra stood as tall as him. Cobras are closely 
akin to Rahu. He put his hands together in respectful salute, the cobra 
looked at him for a few moments and then left. On that mountain, the 
power of the Goddess prevents conflicts between animals and devotees. 
When we feel fear, belligerence is not the answer, humbleness and 
respect is best. Fear indicates the energy of Rahu and Rahu has a hand up 
to bless us if we are fit for it. 


ANDI AA: 


om sulayudhaya namah 


13, Unconquerable (Ayudha) fighting with a spear (Shd/a). 


This is in the fourth hand. Shila also means sharp pains. He can 
cause the kind of distress that seems unbearable. This name shows that 
he holds a spear. He is actively stabbing those who do not surrender at 
his feet. Whether the pain comes from an ailment, a scandal or any kind of 
humiliation, it offers a chance to find true humbleness. 


7 ¢ 
3 TATA AA: 
om meghavamaya namah 


14. The colour (Varna) of a thunder cloud (Megha). 


Rahu, especially if associated with Mercury, can give one an 
interest in extreme weather events. In some cases, a person may even 
have the ability to control the weather. 


He PUA Aad TA: 
om krsnadhvajapatakavate namah 


15. His emblem (Patakavan) is a black flag (Hrsna Dhvaja). 


Black flags are associated with pirates and_ terrorists. 
Historically, they warned of cholera onboard a vessel. 


It is said that ‘every cloud has a silver lining’. Krsradhvaja hints 
at a very elevated state of consciousness. The two nodes, Rahu and Ketu 


372 Yoga of the Planets 


are related to the two highest Chakras above even the Crown Chakra. Just 
as Shri Krishna was born at midnight on a waning Moon, so from 
darkness, truth can shine forth. 


So aROTNAAeaa AA: 


om daksinasamukharathaya namah 


16. His chariot (Ratha) faces (Mukha) the Southern quarter (Dakshindsa). 


South is said to be the direction of Yama, the god of death. In 
Vedic architecture (Vastu), Rahu rules over the South West. This is not 
considered a favourable direction for a front door. I once stayed in such a 
house and many misfortunes fell upon the inhabitants. Of course, there 
may have been other problems with it. Not everyone with their door 
facing in that direction suffers like that. Still if one has such a door and 
one is suffering, some Vastu remedial measures may be advised. The 
Southern direction, though not specifically ruled by Rahu, is faced by him 
and is also less suitable for a front door. Some people will never choose a 
South facing front door, but Vastu permits it as long as it is in a very 
specific part of the wall. I once mentioned to Dr B.V. Raman, the great 
astrologer, the idea that one should not have one’s door facing South. He 
pointed out his family home faced South and all was well, generally. 


It is very rare that temples face South but certain forms of the 
divinity do face that direction. Dakshinamurti, Shiva as the great teacher, 
faces South. That is why there is a tradition of sitting facing North in the 
afternoon meditation to face Him. Ramana Maharishi explained that 
Dakshinamurti meant ‘Dakshina Amurti’ or one who is capable but 
without form. This is the nature of Shiva. When he comes to destroy 
ignorance, then he can appear frightful like Rahu. If Rahu is associated 
with feminine energy, for example, by being conjoined with the Moon or 
Venus, it can indicate Mother Durga, a fierce looking form of the Goddess, 
She is said to be the most compassionate, only not to our ego. 


do Gee eRUIGHA Aa: 


om tiksnadamstrakaralakaya namah 


17. Having a gaping mouth (Kardlaka) with terrible teeth (Tiksna 
Damstra)- 


Rahu, the North Node 373 


This is all part of the terrifying aspect. Not only is he like the 
head of the cobra with poisonous fangs but also the terror of the teeth is 
clearly seen or felt. This is most strongly experienced when a planet is 
applying to Rahu. Since Rahu is naturally in retrograde motion, and the 
others, apart from Ketu, are usually direct, then it often occurs that when 
a planet is in the same sign as Rahu, they are both moving towards each 
other. At some point they meet and then start to separate. Suppose the 
other planet is the ruling planet of your Vedic chart. As the meeting 
approaches, one usually feels anxious, whatever the reason one imagines 
for it. Immediately after they meet, one starts to feel easier. Facing those 
teeth is one of the more difficult astrological situations. 


lf one is born with such a situation, then one may have to 
struggle with some addictive tendencies. This can be a way of hiding from 
the fear but there is a space beyond the fear. The strong influence of Rahu 
or Ketu can give one special gifts such as deep insight and profound 
empathy with others and the collective consciousness. One lives with an 
open door to the realms beyond the obvious, the places where scary 
things live, perhaps ghosts, ghouls, extra-terrestrials, lizards and wizards 
as wellas the divine realms, the prophets, the gods and the sages who are 
not limited by the ordinary boundaries of the world. It is Rahu and Ketu’s 
strange and paranormal qualities that make them so fascinating. Most 
popular movies have a major influence of these Grahas. Life would be 
very dull without them. 


Rahu is associated with the Varaha Avatara of Lord Vishnu. This 
is the divine boar who |ifted up the earth when it had sunk beneath the 
waters. When our life is sinking under the onslaught of Rahu’s 
terribleness, then one remedy is a mantra of Varaha. Being a boar, He has 
terrible teeth so this name points to Him. 


It is interesting to consider the ten great incarnations of Lord 
Vishnu so we can see the extraordinary genius of the ancient sages who 
pave us these stories. Vishnu is the power that sustains so, in Vedic 
Astrology, He is associated with the benefic planets and houses which 
sustain our fortune. 


The incarnations have a natural sequence of appearance: Matsya, 
the fish, Kurma, the turtle, Varaha, the boar, Narasimha, the man-lion, 
Vamana, the dwarf, Parashurama, the vengeful Brahmin, Budha or 
Balarama, the apostle of peace, and Rama and Krshna, who were both 
kings. In this, you can see the evolution of animal Jife on this planet ina 
nutshell. First a fish, then an amphibian, then a mammal followed by 
something that was part animal part human and then a sequence of 
humans. And we thought we only discovered this evolutionary sequence 
quite recently! 


374 Yoga of the Planets 


Another level of understanding comes from the assignment of 
planets to these: Ketu, Saturn, Rahu, Mars, Jupiter, Venus, Mercury, the 
Sun and the Moon respectively. The first three are the dire malefics, who 
cause our animal nature. Then there is Mars, which can be very human 
but if backed into a corner or overcome with anger or greed, quite like an 
animal. The other planets represent various sides of our human 
personality. No one is purely one Graha but one may be more 
exaggerated in a chart. 


2 ¢ 
% QUOTARTAARTA AA: 
om sirpakarasanasthaya namah 


18. Seated (Asanastha) on the figure (Akara) of a winnowing basket 
(Shirpa). 


A winnowing basket is used to separate the chaff from the grain. 
The mix is tossed in the air and the grain falls down while the lighter chaff 
may blow away. This action (Kara) of winnowing signifies Rahu’s role. 
The planetary cycle (Dasha) of Rahu, which lasts for 18 years, is like a 
continuous winnowing. One cries for a break but it is hardly possible. 
Still, at the end, comes the Dasha of jupiter. All the good that the 
winnowing has done to us shines forth. 


In the Vedic chart, Rahu signifies industrial machines. With 
Venus, it can represent powerful and charismatic devices. This was the 
driving combination in the Vedic chart of Steve Jobs. 


$o TPT AA: 


om gomedhabharanapriyaya namah 


19. Fond of ornaments (Bharana) of the Gomedha gem. 


Here it tells us which gem propitiates Rahu. The Priya at the end 
indicates that wearing this gem will please him and thus should only 
benefit the user, Treat this gem with great respect! 


Gomedha is generally considered to be golden beryl! or hessonite 
garnet. The best colour is a beautiful gold, likened to the colour of cow's 
(Go) urine. Medha means high intelligence. Rahu’s influence on the rising 
sign can give this. 


Rahu, the North Node 375 


# ASMA AA: 


om masapriyaya namah 


20. Fond (Priya) of Masha (beans). 


Masha is commonly known as black gram (kind of bean), This 
tells us the kind of food to be offered or used in the Rahu Pdja and for 
Rahu in the Navagraha Pija. Beans create wind and Rahu is very Vata or 
windy. They are cooked over a long time to soften. This is perhaps why 
Rahu's cycle is so long. It wears down one’s rigidities until one is soft 
enough to benefit from the Jupiter Dasha. Jupiter follows Rahu Dasha in 
the Vimshottari Dasha system, the ‘king’ of the Dasha systems, which 
predict how the planets affect us over time. Being Rahu, it would have to 
be a black bean. 


So HIRATA AA: 


om kaSyaparsinandanaya namah 


21. The son of Kashyapa Rishi. 


Literally, giving delight to him. Nandana is a beautiful word 
suggesting a joyous flow of delight. This is what the child naturally means 
for a parent, even if he is Rahu! Kashyapa gave birth to both gods and 
demons by his two wives (Sun 6). 


Ho ATR AA: 
om bhujagesvaraya namah 


22. Identical with Ananta, the divine serpent (Naga) on which Lord 
Vishnu reclines. The serpent (Bhujaga) lord (fshvara). 


The whole universe rests on Lord Vishnu who embodies 
universal expansion and the Lord rests on Ananta, the king of the 
serpents. Again we see the hint towards the Kundalini power, which 
supports the enlightened consciousness, Rahu may be terrifying but he is 
not evil; he is in this sense our ultimate support. It is good to be friends 
with Rahu and for that we have to be aware that this means accepting ina 
simple way everything in the universe that we fear. This is not about a 
positive judgment of terror, rape, or abuse. 


376 Yoga of the Planets 


When we look up at the stars, we see dots of light that are, in 
some cases, whole galaxies colliding with each other. In this process, 
many worlds like ours are probably being destroyed. If we look with a 
powerful telescope, we are awed by the beauty of the show. Are we 
crying for the countless creatures being destroyed? We see it is all part of 
the great cosmic dance which will end this world one day. In fact, our 
world could end quite suddenly, with no warning. It would only need a 
Supernova in this part of our galaxy. The gamma ray burst would likely 
kill every living thing. Coming at the speed of light we might get a few 
minutes’ notice if the scientists spotted the early stages of the explosion. 
There are so many ways we could die in the next few minutes. That is 
why we are fortunate to have Vedic Astrology because it can give some 
assurance that life will be of a certain length. It shows us that there is a 
plan, the cosmic dance is well choreographed, not randomly cruel. 


You wil not die, if it is not your time to die, An airliner crossing 
Siberia at 30,000 feet broke up for some reason. The plane and the people 
fell to the ground. One man survived. The trees and the snow cushioned 
his fall. The story in the Old Testament of the Bible about Sodom is very 
pertinent today. Whatever were the sins of the Sodomites, and the 
scriptures give various accounts including excessive cruelty and greed, 
God decided that it was unbearable and the city would be destroyed. 
Abraham begged God to spare the city and God said he would if it 
contained at least 50 good people. Abraham managed to reduce the 
demand to 10, but still only one could be found: Abraham's nephew Lot. 
Lot was asked to leave and the city was destroyed. When one looks at the 
level of cruelty today, for example, to animals in factory farms, one 
wonders how we have escaped so far. Scientists tell us that the effect we 
have had on the planet will cause the extinction of up to half of all species 
over the next 50 years. 


There must be a few exceptionally good people in every place. 
The Divine Will is clearly raising up more and dispatching them here and 
there to help the people. While greed marches on, the effort to purify the 
world consciousness is moving into higher gear. Nothing else can save us. 
Changing the type of light bulbs is good but if the minds do not become 
purer, it will not help much. 


0 JeRIAA AA: 
om ulkapatayitre namah 


23. A collective disaster (/t/) caused or indicated by the fall of a meteor 
(Ulkdpata). One who causes the fall of meteors. 


Rahu, the North Node 377 


While the sight of a meteor is often considered an omen of some 
significant event, larger meteors are amongst the most destructive of 
phenomena. Every so often, one hits the earth causing great devastation. 
A major strike can contribute to mass extinctions. The very existence of 
all life is threatened. No wonder flashes of light in the sky were signs of 
dread as well as wonder. 


Could we remember such terrific events? Small ones have 
certainly occurred within man’s time on this planet but what about the 
much bigger events? | was once shown evidence that modern skeletons 
were found in 30 million years old coal in California. It is claimed that this 
and other findings are hidden from view because such discoveries make 
the current leaders of the archeological world fee! uncomfortable. Rahu 
can be the source of such extraordinary claims along with all kinds of 
conspiracy theories. Since Rahu is the enemy of the Sun, Moon and 
Jupiter, the authorities and their advisors decry such things while others 
may enjoy them. It is all part of the nature of life. 


Iti is a plague, collective calamity, and travelling or living in 
foreign lands. Whatever we think about meteors, the point here is that 
Rahu can act as an omen suggesting such things. For example, if a 
question is asked, the Vedic astrologer may draw a chart and note the key 
influential planets. If Rahu is on the Ascendant at the time of the question, 
such things may occur in the life of the questioner. 


H Bos AA: 


om Ssuline namah 


24. The one with a spear (Shilin). 


The Shila was used for impaling criminals. That means that 
whatever crimes we have committed, Rahu comes from time to time and 
stabs us in various ways. We may be angry and think that it is unfair or 
we may feel cleansed and thus grateful. Criminals who confess and show 
remorse, are generally treated with leniency. We should remember that. 
The times when Rahu crosses key points in our chart are the moments 
most likely to trigger such experiences. However, it depends what role he 
has to play in one’s life. His nature is the same but sometimes he has to 
give great gifts. 


378 Yoga of the Planets 


do fahaqra aa: 


om nidhipaya namah 


25. The guardian (Pa) of the treasury (Nidhi). 


This could also mean the abode of the air or wind (Pa). Hence the 
connection with Vata, the windy element as well as storms. Another 
meaning is the protector of those endowed with good qualities. 


The treasury is the nectar of immortality that is reserved for 
those who have surrendered to truth or, in other words, found true 
humility. All treasures are guarded, the greater the treasure the fiercer 
the guardian. That is why Rahu guards immortality. Rahu’s presence is 
known because we fee! fear. When we approach the doors of heaven, as it 
were, they will be guarded and most souls will turn away. Success 
depends on never letting fear tell you what is true. Mars people may 
ignore fear out of sheer courage or even recklessness. Jupiter people da 
so out of wisdom. The latter approach is best but the courage of Mars can 
help. That is why Yogis have a powerful influence of Mars in their charts. 


fo PUA AH: 
om krsnasarparaje namah 


26. The king (Raja) of dark coloured snakes (Krsna Sarpa). 


The king of the snakes is said to be a beautiful blue colour. J saw 
such a one once, he was magnificent. | was on a boat ride on the Rhine, 
Maharishi Mahesh Yogi loved boat rides and he would often take a group 
of us for a few hours cruise. This time, some leading physicists were 
invited and there was a discussion about Unified Field Theory. At one 
point a huge blue Naga appeared in front of Maharishi, standing tall facing 
him. The Nagas are the celestial progenitors of the serpent races. They 
are said to have deep insight and vast knowledge and are marked by a 
jewel on the forehead. This is symbolic for the awakened third-eye that 
sees into the heart of things. According to the Yogic wisdom, the 
awakened Kundalini, the serpent power within, opens the third eye as it 
rises to the forehead. Some people, who have a powerful connection 
between Rahu or Ketu and a planet in their birth chart, exhibit 
experiences that resonate with the stories of the Nagas. In the chart of 
Maharishi Mahesh Yogi there is a powerful conjunction between the Sun 
and Rahu aspected by Jupiter, showing a connection with the king of the 
Nagas (see also Rahu 22). 


Rahu, the North Node 379 


In one of the Vedic texts, it tells how the snakes were born to Diti, 
the mother of the divisive forces, and how she quarrelled with Aditi, her 
co-wife, the mother of the constructive forces. They made an agreement 
for acertain competition and Diti used the dark colour of her children to 
win through deceptive means. Aditi and her son were reduced to slaves 
and put to much trouble but good triumphed in the end. So we may infer 
that the dark snakes referred to here, are those that are involved in deceit 
- the snakes in the grass! That is, under certain circumstances, Rahu’s 
influence can make a person take to deceptive and poisonous works. 


We can draw a connection to the Kundalini energy. Shri Krishna 
is famous for saving his people from a deadly snake that was spoiling 
their water supply. He danced on its head. This is how divinity overcomes 
deceit. The Kundalini energy rises up like a cobra and ultimately reaches 
the crown. Lord Krishna stands above that in the highest Chakra and 
dances onit leaving the consciousness crystal clear and pure. 


do faSsaI STAI SENA AB: 


om visajvalavrta'syaya namah 


27. An orifice (Asya) surrounded by poisonous (Visha) flames. 


His jaws or mouth are covered or encompassed (Vrta} with a fire 
(Jvald), which is venomous in character. It can also mean one whose 
mouth conceals a poisonous fire. We feel afraid when facing the jaws. 


Those with a strong influence of Rahu on the Ascendant or the 
second house of speech may struggle to speak sweetly. Many factors can 
affect this. For example, the Moon battles Rahu. The Moon is both a 
watery planet as well as the embodiment of compassion. If the Moon 
conjoins Rahu, then the Moon should be strengthened. Wearing pearls 
can help. 


There is a powerful form of the Mother Goddess Durga called 
Jvalamukhi (fire mouthed). Her worship is an antidote for the experience 
of the negative side of this aspect of Rahu. Worshipping Her amounts to 
facing one’s fears. The fear is great but we can overcome it if we take the 
attitude of the child who has complete confidence in the power of her 
mother to save her. The sages harnessed this positive psychology to 
rescue us from our difficulties. Some think the Vedic approach is about 
worshipping a multitude of idols. In reality, the mind has multiple modes 
with which we struggle and the sages gave both specific and general 


380 Yoga of the Planets 


remedies. They taught that the universe is unified and diversified at the 
same time everywhere. 


do eR aa: 


om ardhaSsariraya namah 


28. Half-bodied (Ardha Sharira). 


In Rahu 4, we spoke of how Rahu and Ketu came to be as two 
parts of one original body. It is interesting how often ghosts and ghouls 
are depicted as being bodiless or headless. 


go MFA AA: 


om Satravapradaya namah 


29. Giving (Prada) enmity (Sh@trava). 


This is why Rahu is the primary agent of divorce and separation. 
When two people fall out, they want to separate. Rahu’s transit causes 
conflict, even between those with deep bonds. Thus, when we see Rahu is 
transiting a key relationship house like the seventh house of marriage or 
the seventh from the Moon, we should try to overlook sources of conftict 
and let the transit pass. A temporary separation for some routine reason 
can sometimes help. The worst effect may come between Rahu entering 
the sign in which the house cusp falls and the conjunction with the cusp. 
After that, there is usually some relief. 


So Teena aa: 


om ravindubhikaraya namah 


30. Causing fear (Bhikara) in the luminaries, the Sun (Ravi) and the Moon 
(Indu). 


This name alerts us that the fear generating effect of Rahu is 
stronger when the association is with these two Grahas. This is the nature 
of an eclipse. This also explains why the authorities, which are indicated 
by the two royal planets, are so concerned about turbulence or revolt. 
This fear can make them very controlling. If we find ourselves over 


Rahu, the North Node 381 


managing things due to a feeling of fear or insecurity, we should try to 
find a space of trust or faith, as this alone can manage the fear. 


go SPAS] AA: 


om chayasvarupine namah 


31. Whose form (Rupa) is a shadow (Chhdya). 


Rahu and Ketu are not true Grahas as they cannot be seen. Hence, 
they are called shadow Grahas. This also makes them very much affected 
by whatever influence is on them. If they are associated with Jupiter, for 
example, Jupiter suffers but Rahu or Ketu will give many good results. For 
example, if Jupiter promises wealth, then it is most likely to come during 
the cycle of the associated node. 


Beas AA: 


om kathinangakaya namah 


32. One who resorts to cruel and ruthless expedients. 


Anga can mean an expedient. It also indicates the body or limbs. 
Here its use tends to emphasize that Rahu is the very embodiment of 
Kathina - hard hearted, cruel, inexorable, inflexible, sharp, violent and 
intense. This reminds me of one of the most remarkable experiences | 
have had. ! slipped into a space of consciousness where all the sorrow 
and all the joy in the universe was welcome. It was as if | was bearing 
every possible misery and yet there was no weight, no problem. It was a 
state of Grace, a profound blessing. 


The universe has to have ail possibilities including even this 
tendency of Rahu. Taken to an extreme, it causes so many disturbances 
that it threatens survival but if humans had none of this capacity, one 
would not be able to wittingly break even a blade of grass. 


So AHH AA: 


om dvisacchakracchedakaya namah 


33. Breaking (Chhedaka) the host of the enemy. 


382 Yoga of the Planets 


The subtle meaning is more interesting. Dvisha indicates duality 
or the conviction that one is separate from everything else. Chakra has 
multiple meanings. It is the seat of that duality in the Muladhara. It is the 
weapon, the discus that one sees in the hand of Lord Vishnu. It 
discriminates between truth and illusion by cutting the roots of 
ignorance. Ignorance is raoted in dishonesty. Honesty means trusting 
one’s inner knowing rather than one’s belief systems. Honesty has no 
element of judgment. It finds no fault. To be totally honest with oneself 
cuts right to the core and opens the cognition of non-difference. 


One can see that Rahu indicates separation. He divides, breaks in 
two. More fundamentally, he is breaking the root of the misconception of 
duality, which is where the illusion of separation is seated. 


The Dvisha (2) Chakra (6) can also indicate the heart. As 2 x 6 is 
12, it can indicate the entire zodiac or again the entire field of our life or 
worldly life. He is breaking that. Rahu is primarily responsible for 
divorce; he breaks our hearts and the structures we have built in our 
lives. By doing so, he offers us a chance to see more clearly what is real. If 
we can see what is real, the breaking of the outer structures may not be 
necessary. 


4 RUSRAY AR: 


om karalasyaya namah 


34. Having terrible jaws. 


Kardla Asya means a gaping mouth It is wide open. His jaws are 
pointed or uneven and his mouth is huge. How is one to escape? All our 
attempts to flee from the experience of Rahu fail. Only one who has 
simply and freely fallen into his mouth has become free from fear. 
Fighting or hiding is ultimately doomed to failure. Once swallowed, all 
fear dissolves. After a planet comes into exact conjunction with Rahu and 
starts to separate, the anxiety, which may have been very intense, passes. 


Jo WARTS AA: 
om bhayamkaraya namah 


35, Causing (Kara) fear (Bhuya). 


In Saturn 107, it was explained that fear arises from a feeling of 
separation. This is Rahu’s root issue. A sense of separation comes with 


Rahu, the North Node 383 


human birth. This leads us to seek union with others and with God, In 
Jyotisha, God for us is seen through the placement of Jupiter. Thus Rahu 
and Jupiter represent a path. Rahu takes us towards Jupiter and this is 
why some of the best people are those whose soul is marked by Rahu. 
They have no pretensions to being perfect and try hard to improve. A fine 
example is Pope Francis. His AtmaKaraka (Sun 12) is Rahu and is with 
Jupiter in Jupiter’s sign Sagittarius. It fits his humble holiness perfectly. 
The flipside is that Jupiter AtmaKaraka can slide towards Rahu so great 
care must be taken to avoid rising egotism. 


5 [via 
HO PCHHT AH: 
om krirakarmane namah 


36. One of crue} or formidable (Kriira) deeds (Karma). 


This can include a wide range from small acts of selfishness to 
rape and abuse. It all depends on Rahu’s strength and associations in the 
chart. Being friends with Rahu is the greatest challenge but it is necessary 
for the astrologer. in India, astrologers are called Grahamitra, the friend 
of the planets. It takes a very big heart. 


Rahu gives great intelligence for extracting benefit from the 
environment. Mankind’s dominance over this planet and the remarkable 
progress we have made is thanks to that. Is clearing a forest to plant 
crops a cruel act? Clearly big fish eating small fish is natural, It is all a 
matter of degree and what we think is acceptable. Rahu will kill animals 
for food, Mercury will not. We all have different attitudes depending on 
the arrangement of the Grahas when we are born. 


3 TART AA: 
om tamoriipaya namah 


37. His farm (Rapa) is darkness. 


Tamas can include not taking proper care or being uncaring. One 
excellent remedy for Rahu problems is to volunteer to help people who 
appear very different. This could include immigrants, refugees or people 
of a different skin colour or ethnic group who are disadvantaged. 


384 Yoga of the Planets 


40 OAH AA: 


om syamatmane namah 


38. Of the nature (Atman) of a cloud (Shyama), obscuring. 


Shyama is a beautiful dark blue colour. It is also a name for Lord 
Krishna, whose dark beauty bewitches the whole world. Rahu, like Kala 
(time), is just an agency of the will of God. The Bhagavad Gita is the 
teachings of Lord Krishna to Arjuna on the Mahabharata battlefield. In 
the beginning, Arjuna is gripped with concern that he is about to kill 
many noble souls, teachers and relatives and bring human society into 
chaos. Krishna shows him that it is destiny or time that is going to bring 
an end to all the warriors and that Kala is His form. ‘Be just an agent’, he 
says to Arjuna. 


Peacefulness comes when we let the natural law manage what it 
is anyway managing, the whole performance of life. That means 
upholding our duty and answering the call of compassion. Essentially, just 
being a witness to it all. In the process of dying, when coming to know 
that their time is up, many souls relax and start to shine. In this way, 
without being lazy or dull, we can truly find peace. 


Science and the great religions say that the light of life was born 
out of a primordial darkness. This name reminds us of that source. 


 asalear aH: 


om nilalohitaya namah 


39, Blue (Nila) and red (Lohita). 


He is blue like Saturn and red like Mars, both Tamas and Rajas. It 
is said that both these colours are associated with the marriage ritual and 
the loss of virginity’. Rahu is very deeply involved with marriage. Rahu's 
cycle usually causes marriage and frequently the position of Rahu in the 
chart shows the bond. For example, the Rahu in one person’s chart 
conjoins the Moon in the other's, This causes a kind of mutual addiction, 
which is rather essential to an abiding relationship. 


16 The sacrament of marriage in Hindu society. Dr Usha Apte. Ajanta Publications, 
1978 


Rahu, the North Node 385 


3 PRA aa: 


om kirftine namah 


40. Wearing a crown (Kirita). 


Kingship is certainly the Sun but Rahu is the great strategist and 
that is important for rulership. There is a dictum that roya] Yogas need 
the support of a node and there is some statistical evidence for this!’. 
Rahu’s influence can raise a person to a high position. In the astrological 
texts, Rahu signifies the ministers of the cabinet. 


4 Woda Aa: 


om nilavasanaya namah 


41. Wearing blue (Nila) clothes (Vasana). 


Nila can indicate the blue sapphire. This is the gem for Saturn but 
could heJp for Rahu as they are so akin. Nila is associated with antimony 
as also poison. In the story of the churning of the milk ocean by the gods 
and demons (Rahu 4), the first product of the churning was a terrible 
poison. This burnt everything until swallowed by Lord Shiva on 
everyone's request. It turned his throat blue, hence his name Nilakantha. 
This story embodies the eternal truth that when one seeks nectar, one 
first has to bear poison. Before being heated, the sickness has to come out. 
The inner silence Shiva represents is the one that can bear the poison. 
After that, the goddess Lakshmi emerged. She rules over wealth and all 
auspicious things. Later came the nectar of immortality. 


. ¢ 
$o Maas AA: 
om Ssanisamantavartmagaya namah 
42. Moving (Ga) on the path (Vartma) defined (Sdmanta) by Saturn 
(Shani). 


Saturn is associated with Dharma Raja. He is the deity who sees 
everything and defines the rewards and punishments due. Rahu, like 


'T See Untara Kalamrita Kanda 2, Chp. 2. v6-7, and “The Raja Yogas of British 
Monarchs and American Presidents”, Steven J Hubball. Gochara 8:1, 2007. 


386 Yoga of the Planets 


Saturn, carries this out. That is how he sometimes gives and sometimes 
takes away. He cannot deviate from the natural law. 


Jo FUSTSAN AA: 
om candalavamaya namah 


43. Representing outcasts (Chanddla Varna). 


An outcast is one who has crossed some boundary. When Jupiter 
is conjoined in the chart with Rahu, it is called Guru Chandala yoga. As 
Jupiter represents Gurus or teachers, it can indicate experiences of 
teachers whose behaviour appears to be corrupt or deceptive. On the 
other hand, the teacher may be from a foreign country or have an 
especially broad-minded view. Rahu represents people who break 
boundaries and this includes those who are open to ideas from other 
cultures and traditions. 


Not long ago, India had many experts who had extraordinary 
knowledge. Often, these great savants did not find students to pass on the 
knowledge and have thus seen the end of their lineage. Modern 
professions have become more lucrative than the traditional arts and 
sciences. However, there has been a lot of interest from abroad in the 
traditional knowledge so a few Brahmins who were willing to teach 
foreigners have found some students. We do not know what has been lost 
but the whole world has gained from the dissemination of the wisdom 
beyond the traditional boundaries. 


Rahu can indicate people who break !aws, human and natural. It 
can a{fso give out-of-the-box thinkers who can make a very positive 
contribution. Those who have to bring together countries or different 
ethnic or religious groups that are in conflict must have a strong Rahu. 


0 SARA AA: 


om aSvyrksabhavaya namah 


44. Born (Bhava) in Ashwini Nakshatra (Ashvyrksa). 


It is said in the ancient astronomical text Surya Siddhanta, that at 
the beginning of the solar system, Rahu was placed at zero degrees of 
Aries. Ashwini is the first Nakshatra or lunar mansion in Aries so this 
would be the place of his birth. It could also mean that his Bhava or 
nature is like Ashwini. It is a star of healing; the Ashwins were the 


Rahu, the North Node 387 


physicians to the gods, and those with planets in Ashwini often take to 
healing work. The other star much associated with healing is 
Shatabhishaj in Aquarius, which is ruled by Rahu. From this we can see 
why Rahu is so connected to healing, especially pharmacology. 
Shatabhishaj means the 100 healing herbs and is associated with the time 
of year when the stored rice was wrapped in herbs to enhance its 
nutritiona) value. Aries is a place of new beginnings and is about 
expansion and breaking out from the shell or womb. These are functions 
of Rahu. 


Jo TAATA Aa: 
om mesabhavaya namah 


45. Born (Bhava) in Mesa, Aries. 


This and name 44 show Rahu is especially potent in Aries and its 
first Nakshatra. When I was writing about this name, Rahu had recently 
entered Aries and immediately the level of violence in the Middle East 
increased. | had expected this because in Aries, Rahu is mingling with the 
energy of Mars and when the energy of Mars joins the agitation of Rahu it 
can be quite terrible, if provoked. However, great care must be taken to 
assess their relative strength and the associated auspicious factors. One 
should not jump to any conclusion just because these two are seen 
together in a chart. 


These names give another view on this combination. Mesa is the 
head and Rahu is the hooded serpent, which obviously suggests the brain 
as it spreads out at the top of the nerves running up the spine. This 
connects Rahu to intelligence, the human specialty of being able to solve 
problems, innovate and maximize our benefit from our environment. This 
is why Rahu is the marker of the living compared to the inanimate and is 
most developed in homo sapiens. For this and other reasons, it is 
included in the significators of the experience of living beings, called in 
Sanskrit the Chara Karakas. The best known is the AtmaKaraka (Sun 12). 


$0 Weldehae Aa: 


om Sanivatphaladaya namah 


46. Giving results (Phala) like (Yat) Saturn, Shani. 


388 Yoga of the Planets 


Both Saturn and Rahu can give grief and separation and, in due 
course, the same profound blessings. They are both windy Grahas and 
together represent the ‘storm’ yoga or combination. In astrology, the 
world is divided into 12 houses each representing certain areas of our 
life. Wherever they mutually influence gets well shaken helping us to 
change and evolve. The actual outcome depends on many factors. 


$0 ARTA 7A: 


om stiraya namah 


47, The powerful one. 


Shdra is a powerful hero who is hard to oppose. This name also 
applies to Mars (100), who is said to be the general of the army of the 
gods while Rahu leads the army of the demons. Mars is brave, skilled in 
weapons and brilliant tactically but Rahu is smarter and hasno problem 
with any cunning strategy, even if treacherous. Every one of us has both 
these energies, only their relationships and associations differ. That is 
why we should not jump to any judgment of others. As the Holy Bible 
says, ‘Let he who has not sinned cast the first stone.’ 


_ N 
3 SGGSR dg AH: 
om apasavyagataye namah 


48. Moving in a retrograde manner (Apasavya Gati). 


Even though the true or actual position of the Rahu Ketu axis is 
occasionally moving in the same direction as the Sun, mostly it moves in 
the opposite direction. In India, the traditional astrologers only use the 
mean position: the motion without allowing for temporal variations. This 
is always backwards relative to the Sun’s motion. This retrograde 
movement is very important in all the predictions. Rahu and Ketu move 
like a truck going the wrong way on a freeway causing consternation to 
other drivers. Retrogression focuses on the consequences of past actions 
and delays progress while these are being processed. 


We see the existence of Rahu and Ketu were recognized from a 
very early era. This indicates a sophisticated understanding of astronomy 
as they are not observable points but can only be inferred from the 
observation of the Sun and the Moon, especially the timing of eclipses 
over a long period. Astronomy at a high level is seen in all the ancient 


Rahu, the North Node 389 


civilizations, driven first by calendric needs and then by the growing 
science of astrology. In China, two court astrologers Hsi and Ho are said 
to have been executed for failing to predict an eclipse. Since the crown 
was the sponsor of astronomers and astrologers the incentive to 
understand the nodes was very real. 


Jo SPR AA: 


om uparagakaraya namah 


49, Causing (Kara) eclipses and collective calamities (Upardga). 


Rahu always has a connection to the collective. It can give 
someone a great empathy for what other people are feeling. | have seen 
this in healers and group work leaders. It can even make one sensitive to 
remote traumas happening to many people. 


Rahu’s motion can coincide with major collective events. Mars 
and Rahu conjoined and opposite can trigger major accidents or terror 
events, The Nakshatra and position of the Moon is important. On 
September 11, 2001,an extreme example occurred where Mars met Ketu 
in Mila Nakshatra. Mila is ruled by Nirriti, the goddess of death and 
rebirth. Opposite this, the Moon in a Nakshatra or Mars approached Rahu. 
Very serious loss of life on this day was expected. There were many 
strange and unexplained things about what happened, which is the 
nature of the nodes. They rule over terrible events as well as cover-ups 
and the conspiracy theories they spawn. 


On August 29, 2005 at 6:10am, Hurricane Katrina came ashore in 
Louisiana. Rahu was passing through Pisces, the sign related to the ocean. 
Major disturbances had been predicted. On that day, the significator of 
water, Venus, and the ruler of Pisces, Jupiter, conjoined Ketu. 


30 cotherecse carci bar , ShIq Aa: 


om somasiryacchavivimardakaya namah 


50. Completely grinding away (Vimardaka) the beauty (Chhavi) of the Sun 
(Sérya) or the Moon (Soma). 


This is a very poetic or dramatic take on a total eclipse, where the 
Sun is eaten away until it totally disappears. This mantra cannot be done 
without great consciousness. If we feel deeply, then this can open an ever- 


390 Yoga of the Planets 


increasing compassion for those who feel their light is fading. Ultimately, 
every ageing being knows this sacrifice. One also knows that it will lead to 
a new dawn. Within the hiding and revealing of the light is a perpetual 
truth that cannot be eclipsed. 


Conjunctions of the Sun or the Moon with Rahu can be 
challenging, regardless of whether it is during the time of an eclipse. 
There can be a feeling (Moon) or deep internal sense (Sun) of affliction. 
This initiates a search for a remedy. Hence, those born at these moments 
are often very profound. Eclipse like combinations are found in the charts 
of saints as well as people with real difficulties. If the remedy adopted is 
alcohol or drugs, then this can be quite damaging but hopefully it is just a 
stage in the search. After all, the light has not disappeared, it only appears 
like that for a brief period. Seeking help can be very useful. 


My experience has repeatedly shown me that there is no eclipse 
even though the internal state that feels like that is a very real experience. 
It is a hangover from some past experience and will be worn away 
eventually. How can this process be speeded up? | do not pretend to 
know what will help everybody but I will mention a few things that I have 
learnt over the years. 


Psychologists have found out that when we remember a trauma, 
then the chemistry that was maintaining that memory is dissolved and 
re-deposited. If the memory arises in a positive environment, then much 
less of the echo of the trauma is re-deposited. Experiments have shown 
that, in the right therapeutic situation, certain currently illegal drugs help 
the release. As of the time of writing, the US government has just 
approved trials for this treatment modality for PTSD patients. 


If we remember something bad, feel bad and perhaps get worked 
up, all of that is then stored along with some part of the memory. Next 
time we remember it, it is not the original memory but the newly created 
memory that arises. That is why peopje’s memory of things changes over 
time and why, if one is troubled by feelings that are tagged to certain 
memories, then the right therapist may be able to help. What one needs is 
to be able to relive those experiences in a loving and supportive 
environment. The ideal is if one can completely relax as one reviews the 
old traumas. 


In the Yoga Sutras of Pataiijali, it explains that the gross 
experiences, with all their trauma, are erased by subtle experience. This 
subtle experience refers to the deep blissful and relaxing experiences 
induced by Yogic processes like meditation. For this, a competent guide is 
advised. If the trauma level is high it is best to start with simple Yoga 
Asanas. 


Rahu, the North Node 391 


$ ASAE AA: 


om nilapuspaviharaya namah 


51. Enjoying (Vih@ra) blue flowers (Nila Puspa). 


This is the kind of flowers to be offered in Rahu Puja: Preferably 
of a dark blue. One could also infer it to mean that he enjoys the 
expanding darkness; for example, as the eclipse of the Sun sets in. People 
have always been afraid of solar eclipses but there is a strange fascination 
with them. This is our ambiguous attitude to the gateway to the other 
world, the unknown, causing fear and fascination. 


do TeEaSTa AA: 


om grahasresthaya namah 


52. The best (Shrestha) of the Grahas. 


Many will be surprised to see this name. However, Graha means 
to grasp and none of the others grasp as effectively as Rahu. It is the 
primary cause of all addictive behaviour. Research has found that young 
women need less than one cigarette to start showing signs of addiction. 
Young men need only a few. Once we are grasped, it can be a lifetime 
struggle to be free. Suggest to someone that he leaves something that has 
grasped him and he often becomes angry or defensive. It controls to the 
extent of using one’s own emotions to protect its power over one. We all 
have something of this in us. 


Shrestha has many meanings. These include the most auspicious 
and the most beautiful. In the right placement, Rahu can give tremendous 
charisma, more than other Grahas. Most celebrities benefit from this. 


3 ABAVEIA AA: 


om astamagrahaya namah 


53. Amongst the Grahas, Rahu is the eighth (Astarma). 


This tells us that the number eight is important. Rahu is very 
much like the eighth house in the Vedic chart, the place of the 
consequences of our past mistakes. Astrology is associated with the 
eighth house because it shows us what we have brought into this life. [f 


392 Yoga of the Planets 


we had been entirely pure, we would not have had to come here. Even 
though we will enjoy certain fruits of our past good deeds, indicated 
mainly by the ninth house as well as the fifth, we do not consult others 
about the goodies that fall from the heavens. Only when we fear losing 
them, fail to gain them or have some other kind of trouble, do we think of 
taking some advice from the wise or the learned. In this way, the eighth 
house and Rahu drive us in a very healthy direction. This could be 
another reason why Rahu is the best as mentioned in the last name. 


Since Rahu is not one of the seven visible Grahas, we might 
wonder where in the weekday list to put him. This makes it clear that 
Rahu comes after Shani. This is important for many subtle calculations 
taught in the Jaimini Scholar program}, The eighth sign is Scorpio where 
Rahu is considered by many scholars to be weak. It is a difficult 
placement. Rahu is associated with Mother Durga especially when 
associated with the Moon or Venus and the beginning of Scorpio is the 
weakest place for the Moon. What this means is that if we are troubled hy 
Rahu, we can pray to Her for redemption. 


Ho FAIA AA: 


om kabandhamatradehaya namah 


54. His body {Deha) is measured (Matra) from the headless trunk. 


Kabandha is the headless trunk. What remains is the head, which 
is Rahu. However, we can also interpret Kabandha as a vast space. Then 
this is the measure of his body. This is how Rahu can give vastness. With 
the right planetary combinations, he can give unbounded consciousness. 


Rahu is an energy of expansion but not a form of expansion that 
can be controlled. He becomes vast without consulting us. Hence, it is the 
principal marker of cancer and epidemics. Aside from this, his expansion 
can sometimes give great benefits or expand our consciousness if we are 
able to go with the flow. 


% Aqurapargay aa: 


om yatudhanakulodbhavaya namah 


55. Born (Udbhava) in the family (Kula) of the race of the Yatudhanas. 


14 JaiminiScholarorg 


Rahu, the North Node 393 


The Yatudhanas were a race of ‘demonic’ beings. They represent 
the animal passions in humans. When we enter a period ruled by Rahu, 
we feel the pressure of our desire increasing. We easily get entrapped in 
worldliness and our wants and needs torment us. This is Rahu’s principal 
torture, especially through the sex hormones. Doing a mantra like this is 
an exercise in facing our trouble and must be done with an open heart 
and careful attention. 


do fea-eargTa aa: 


om govindavarapatraya namah 


56. The container (Patra) of the Grace of the Lord (Govinda Vara). 


This is such a beautiful name and may surprise some readers. 
Those who receive the touch of the Lord, even if it is of His weapon, are 
most blessed. Lord Vishnu in the form of Mohini, first gave Rahu the 
nectar of immortality, the Soma or Amrita, and then cut off his head with 
His divine weapon. Thus, he was twice blessed and is worthy of respect. 


% casilenlaenra aa: 


om devajatipravistakaya namah 


57, He entered into (Pravishtaka) the race of the gods (Devajati). 


This name tells us that Rahu is divine by birth or he became one 
of the divine race by the blessing received from the Lord as just described 
in name S6. The characteristic of the gods is that they are immortal by 
drinking the Soma. Rahu received a few drops by deceitfully entering the 
line-up of the gods. Humans are far from divinity when following the path 
of the Yatudhanas (name 55), but Rahu’s connection to risen Kundalini 
can promote us so we can enjoy the nectar of immortality like the gods. 
All we have to do is loose our head, the ego, like Ketu by the grace of the 
Lord. 


do UT AA: 


om kruraya namah 


58. Crue] (Kriira). 


394 Yoga of the Planets 


Manipulation and cruelty go together. Cruelty breeds fear and 
fear can breed cruelty. Cruelty can only arise in a hardened heart and a 
hard heart cannot feel joy. ft is the worst prison and the only way out is to 
give up all cruelty. Otherwise, the thickness of the bars only increases. It 
is a hell, but one that each person holds the key to in his or her own hand. 
People commit cruel acts to maintain their status but they cannot enjoy 
all that that status brings because the ability to feel sweetness recedes 
more and more. It would be a better world if this was explained to the 
children. This name challenges us to feel compassion for those who are 
trapped in the pit of cruelty. Wherever we are in life, we can open our 
hearts by acts of service and kindness especially to those beyond our 
normal circle. 


o FW AH: 


om ghoraya namah 


59. Awful. 


Ghora covers many English words like horrible, frightful, violent, 
vehement, venerable and sublime. It is also a name of Lord Shiva, as the 
destroyer. It can be used as a mantra because every name of Shiva is 
auspicious. If we do a mantra with a spirit of devotion, it reveals the truth. 
It is our attitude that makes it auspicious. If we can honour the divinity in 
Rahu, then it is also auspicious. 


$ Bafana aa: 


om Sanermitraya namah 


60. Saturn's friend (Mitra). 


This is the third name emphasizing the link with Saturn (Shani). 
It also tells us about their relationship. Little is mentioned in the Jyotisha 
texts about the relationships of Rahu and Ketu with the other Grahas. We 
have seen above that Rahu is the enemy of the luminaries. Now we see a 
friend. 


TRA TA: 


om Sukramitraya namah 


Rahu, the North Node 395 


61. Venus’ friend (Mitra). 


From these two names (60, 61), we could conclude that Rahu 
would be less difficult for those whose charts are ruled by Saturn or 
Venus (Shukra) and its conjunctions with these Grahas would be less 
afflictive for them. This would be because Venus and Saturn would have 
more understanding of Rahu’s motivations. However, both Venus Rahu 
and Saturn Rahu conjunctions can be challenging. For example, Venus 
Rahu conjunctions can indicate relationship difficulties but it is a 
powerful combination for charisma, such as in the charts of Elvis Presley 
and Aishwarya Rai. 


$0 STR AA: 


om agocaraya namah 


62. Invisible (Agochara). Uncontrollable. 


Rahu and Ketu represent all those things which are beyond the 
range of our ordinary senses. This could include the infrared (Ketu) and 
ultraviolet (Rahu) as well as everything that we call paranormal. 


3 Old TIARA TA: 


om mane gangasnanadatre namah 


63. When placed in the tenth house (Mana), Rahu can give (Datr) a bath 
(Sndna) in the Ganges (Ganga). 


Perhaps we are surprised to find that Rahu, when in the tenth 
house of status and action, can lead to a devotional and purifying 
experience. | have found thisis true in practice in charts { have seen and it 
is a well-known dictum in India. 


Mana, the tenth house is the place of karma, our self-promotional 
action. In the course of this, we may commit some selfish acts. Such an act 
is one, after doing which, we feel a little ashamed or prone to make 
excuses or harden our heart: ‘I! had no choice’, etc. Wherever there is a 
cloud of secrecy, there are selfish deeds being hidden. One victim is our 
own heart that has lost its cleanness and can no longer rejoice in the joy 
of life. This is a price that far exceeds all the gold in the world but, by the 
time most humans realize this, it is too late. So we seek some remedy. 
Confessing our sins is very helpful. Another common way to seek healing 


396 Yoga of the Planets 


is to go on a pilgrimage. Many people believe that certain places have 
sacred power and can cleanse. In India, the prime place of pilgrimage is 
the river Ganges, which is said to wash away all our sins. 


I have often bathed in the Ganga and always found Her 
indescribably soothing. Once I went to the great city of Shiva, Varanasi 
(Benares). The river was so full of pollution that it took five days before | 
fully immersed myself. The Grace | experienced showed me that the 
pollution had acted as a way of discouraging me from that experience. | 
am, though, most grateful that the Indian Government is so committed to 
cleaning the river. 


There is some evidence that the Ganges water is actually 
different from other river waters, Scientific studies going back to the 19th 
century show that ‘cholera microbes died within three hours in Ganga 
water, but continued to thrive in distilled water even after 48 hours’?9, 
Also sailors have long noticed that Ganges water taken on at Hooghly, one 
of the dirtiest river mouths, lasts for weeks, while water taken on at other 
ports around the world only lasts for days?*, My uncle was a merchant 
ship’s captain and | remember him explaining this to me. 


Ho CE WaeaaTr AA: 
om svagrahe prabaladhyadaya namah 


64. In the first house, Rahu gives (Da) tremendous power (Prabaladiya),. 


Svagrahe means ‘in that situation where it has grasped the self. 
This means an association with some indicator of the self such as the first 
house (the Ascendant), the Sun and the AtmaKaraka (soul indicator, see 
Sun 12). In all these cases, the person can become a master controller, 
which can mean a powerful leader. For example, President Obama has his 
AtmaKaraka with Rahu as does President Trump. 


Svagraha can mean his own sign. This is Aquarius and some 
scholars say Virgo too. Perhaps this could also apply to Gemini and 
Taurus since they are strong places for Rahu. If the Ascendant sign 
happens to be one of these with Rahu in it, then it is especially powerful. 
In one text it says that if Rahu is in Gemini in the first house, it removes 
all afflictions. In the context of a sequence of names giving results in 
different houses, the reference to the first house is the main idea. 


 E, Hanbury Hankin in Annales de I'Institut Pasteur, 1896 
” Kalshian, Rakesh; “Ganges Has Magical Cleaning Properties,” Geographic. 66:5, 
Apri] 1994 


Rahu, the North Node 397 


dh TEES Aa: 
om sadgrahe'nyabaladhrte namah 


65. In the place of truth (Sadgraha), Rahu gains (Dhrt) unusual strength 
(Anya Bala). 


One meaning of Graha is a house and the houses related to truth 
are the Dharma houses: the first, fifth and ninth with the ninth house 
being the strongest. Dharma literally means that which upholds life. Part 
of it is duty especially in the sense of the family and society’s traditions 
and our place in them. If one is a parent, then proper care for the children 
is a natural duty as is doing one’s work in a careful and responsible way. 
Supporting the nation, as called upon, and caring for the survival of the 
whole ecosphere are also natural duties. The Dharma houses are related 
to self-realization and religion in its true or spiritual sense. 


One might think that Rahu would spoil the ninth house by 
making one follow some unorthodox religion or spiritual practice, 
worshipping a God who appears with a destructive face or being extreme 
in one's views. All of this has some truth. However, there is good that can 
come from Rahu in the ninth too. The old religious ways may have 
decayed and become corrupt. A new approach may be useful. This can 
apply in a very private personal sense and ona larger scale depending on 
the overall chart. 


Sad or Sat also relates to signs ruled by the Sun, Moon or Jupiter. 
Such signs coincident with a Dharma house would further add to the 
strength of Rahu. This kind of good influence will diminish the difficult 
tendencies and make it more wholesome. We get a clue here, that Rahu 
gains strength when influenced by Sattva. After all, Tamas on its own is 
too dull to achieve much. As a shadow Graha, Rahu takes from its 
associations. Thus when associated with Sat, it improves but the Sattvic 
planet that it is conjoined or which rules its sign is made more complex. 


. =f 

$0 Ta Agena AA: 

om caturthe matmasakaya namah 

66. In the fourth (Chaturtha) house, Rahu is harmful (N@shaka) to the 
mother (Matr). 


This begins certain names where Rahu is said to damage the 
person associated with the house (also Rahu 76, 78). This is naturally 


398 Yoga of the Planets 


rather distressing. However, it does not always mean that the person 
suffers. It may be that some characteristic of that person is strongly 
associated with Rahu. If you have Rahu in the fourth, remember that he 
can prove to be a blessing. We should actively seek the blessing rather 
than wait for the bad news. Vedic astrology offers various remedies for 
such combinations. These consist of mantras, Pijas and gems though 
gems are unlikely to be useful here. Finding the correct remedy is quite 
an advanced topic. 


Take great care with a name like this. | do not recommend using 
it as a mantra except as part of repeating all the set of names. Certainly, 
do not ask another person to repeat it. 


% Tah Welsoidgaay 7A: 


om candrayukte candalajatisicakaya namah 


67. If in conjunction with the Moon (Chandra Yyukta), it points (Sucaka) 
to birth as an outcast (Chandala jati). 


In the traditional context, Chandalajati could hint at illegitimacy 
as it suggests the union of a high-class woman with a low-class man, 
something that would normally not be advertised socially. However, what 
this means practically is that one’s relatives may not treat one very well, 
or one may be separated from or aggrieved with one’s mother. This 
combination has a lot in common with that mentioned in the last name as 
the fourth house and the Moon are closely linked. Both represent the 
mother. 


These experiences can hang heavy on the heart. One has to find a 
reason for letting it go. What happens in this life, the major experiences at 
least, are dictated by what we brought in. Whether we believe in 
reincarnation or genetics, this occurred due to some past cause over 
which we have no control. As Shri Krishna so wisely tells the great 
warrior Arjuna just before the great Mahabharata battle, “We should not 
grieve over the inevitable.” It is like a debt that we have to repay. Once 
paid, we must move on. 


Many years before the battle, Arjuna’s brother Bhima was 
travelling and met a beautiful demoness. She begged to have a child from 
him. When the battle came, that child, Ghatotkaca, saved Arjuna’s life. The 
only warrior with a weapon that could kill Arjuna was saving it for when 
they would come into direct combat. Ghatotkaca, being a demon, had the 
power to fight while remaining invisible and was destroying the enemy 
army. The destruction was so great that the enemy commander ordered 


Rahu, the North Node 399 


the weapon to be used. Ghatotkaca died but Arjuna was thereby saved, 
which ensured victory. 


This story illustrates the complexity of karma and _ the 
impossibility of passing judgment. Perhaps Rahu’s influence makes us 
judgmental because of a feeling or fear of being judged ourselves. Rahu 
can make us feel like an outcast in some way, but it is just smoke and is 
best born gracefully. Gracefulness wears away any stain. 


do eae A: 
om simhajanmane namah 


68. Born (fanma) in Leo. 


This indicates that when Rahu was born, the Moon was in Simha, 
Leo, This is the royal sign and Rahu’s association indicates the use and 
abuse of power as we mentioned earlier and in the next name. 


do Usa AA: 


om rajyadatre namah 


69, Giving (Datr) royal position and power (Rajya). 


It is a regrettable but real fact that anyone in a position of power 
has to do many manipulative things to maintain that position. We want 
our rulers to be good people but we let them have secret services and 
slush funds for special ops because we know that they have to do things 
that we would rather not hear about. Is there any government that has 
never assassinated anyone whether by its agents or through others? 
Wherever there is power, there are people trying to grab that power in so 
many ways. 


One classic case of great power given by Rahu is that of Mrs 
Margaret Thatcher. She was a relative unknown when Rahu Dasha 
started and then she quickly rose to hold the post of British Prime 
Minister until Rahu ended. At that time, she was rather nastily forced out 
by her own men. She has Rahu in Cancer in a Nakshatra of Saturn. Cancer 
is a ‘Sat’ sign and Rahu falls in the ninth house in the chart according to 
the Shri Pati house system. According to Rahu 65, this gives unusual 
strength. Rahu’s period activated Saturn exalted in the first house giving a 
royal yoga (combination) and she achieved great prominence. Rahu’s 


400 Yoga of the Planets 


association with the Moon or Cancer can also indicate bringing major 
social change. Society is ruled by the Moon. Others with this are Prince 
Charles, who has championed many good causes in the face of much 
ingrained opposition, and former UK Prime Minister Tony Blair. Both Mrs 
Thatcher and Tony Blair made many changes in the way things are 
managed in the UK. Both eventually took actions that proved very 
unpopular. 


Mrs Thatcher tried to introduce a poll tax that was hated and Mr 
Blair ignored the popular opposition to invading Iraq without full UN 
support. The poll tax appeared to be the fatal mistake of Mrs Thatcher but 
the end of Rahu was sure to be the end of her rule, whatever she did, as | 
predicted several years before it occurred. Rahu is followed by Jupiter, 
which rules enemies in her chart and is in the house of supporters. This is 
an example of where Vedic Astrology gives a result which is both obvious 
and inevitable. | had her birth date and place but no time. I went to the 
library and got a book on her life. Since she had such an interesting and 
dramatic life, it was not hard to figure her time of birth, which later 
proved correct. 


do HEPES AH: 


om mahakayaya namah 


70. Large bodied (Maha Kaya). 


We might expect those marked by Rahu to be espccially tall or 
large. | have not particularly noticed this but as Rahu is more about 
mental influences, it does give people a certain psychic vastness. After all, 
Rahu has no body, only a head so this name must pertain to something 
more subtle than the physical frame. 


So AAR TG: 


om janmakartre namah 


71. The cause (Katr) of birth and rebirth (Janma). 


This name establishes Rahu as a ruler of the desire nature. He 
leads us to chase phantoms, gripped by many cravings. This keeps us far 
from the fulfillment that brings the cycle of birth and death to an end. On 
the other hand, the shaking that he induces often causes a search for 
truth that ultimately opens the doors to liberation. 


Rahu, the North Node 401 


om vidhuripave namah 


72. The enemy of the Moon. 


Ripu is one who cheats, is deceitful and treacherous. Vidhu is the 
Moon as aiso one who is lonely. The mind has this characteristic and 
Rahu throws illusions that lead the mind into many deceptions. Rahu may 
darken the soul, the Sun, but it is the mind that it deceives. If we relax our 
awareness so that the point of attention, where our awareness stands, 
settles to the soul from the mind, then we can no longer be deceived even 
though we may appear to be in darkness. 


It is a core concept of Jyotisha that the Moon is always ready to 
fight Rahu. That means that the influence of the Moon can dampen the 
trauma associated with the placement of Rahu. In day-to-day life, the 
mind does try to overcome the fears and addictions that Rahu represents. 
If the mind is strong, then this is successful. Thus strengthening the mind 
is essential for rising out of such difficulties. Venus is the most helpful in 
strengthening the mind because the Moon is exalted in Taurus, ruled by 
Venus. Venus represents love and friendliness. The basis of most good 
approaches to addiction treatment is this: building positive relationships 
with others. 


3a aHISAaa AA: 


om madakajfianadaya namah 


73. Causing (Da) ignorance (Ajnana) through intoxication (Madaka). 


Rahu is implicated in many cases of addiction or substance 
abuse. While some feel that these substances give them insights, this 
name suggests that it is all part of the illusion. This is particularly seen 
when Rahu is with the Sun or the Moon. In fact, wherever Rahu falls is our 
place of potential addiction. For example, if it falls in the second house 
which rules the mouth, eating or drinking disorders can arise. There may 
be use of mood altering substances or, if the Moon is strong, the person 
may study nutrition and take a lot of supplements. 


In some cases, this could refer to the Divine intoxication of a 
devoted heart. A wonderful example is Shri Ramakrishna Paramahamsa 
whose chart was dominated by Rahu and who lived a spotless life. 


402 Yoga of the Planets 


} AAA AA: 
om janmakanyarajyadatre namah 


74. The giver (Datr) of royal status (Rajya) or high position to those born 
(/anma) with Rahu in Virgo (Kanya). 


As a result of this name or other scriptural assertions such as 
Parashara’s statement that Rahu is strong in Virgo, some feel that Virgo 
can be considered like Rahu’s own sign. Technically, we call it the 
MulaTrikona. This is his office and is a place where it can exert great 
power of control. Rahu in Virgo can also make good healers. 


So AHalialsa aa: 


om janmahanidaya namah 


75, Causing (Da) one to abandon life or endangering birth (Janme Hani). 


When Rahu rises at the time of birth, there may be difficulties. 
One can be that the umbilicus is wrapped around the neck. Rahu indicates 
this as it is like a snake. If one survives, one may feel pulled to move away 
from one's native place. There will be a natural sense of connection with 
people who are ‘foreign’ with respect to the birth place or family. Rahu 
generates a sense of separation. This can have many different 
manifestations. During Rahu’s Dasha in particular, we can search for a 
cure for this feeling. 


The Dasha can wear away at us. Sometimes life may not even 
seem worth living. It is said that some people commit suicide when the 
sub cycle of Rahu comes at the end of Jupiter's Dasha. Jupiter is often very 
beneficial and the Rahu sub cycle and the sense of the oncoming Dasha of 
Saturn can cause many pleasurable things to be lost and much gloom. 
This name makes it clear that suicide is due to illusion, there is no truth in 
it. It is good to remember that self-destructive behaviours amount to 
gradual approaches to suicide. Life is very precious because it can lead to 
the door of God realization. Even Rahu can help. These mantras show his 
many faces. !f we pick up one that appeals to us, that gives us a sense of 
upliftment, it can help us through daily practice. 


Janma may refer to the presence of Rahu in the Ascendant or 
Moon sign or its influence on them. The next two names refer to the fifth 
and ninth. The first, fifth and ninth form the Dharma triangle of houses. 
Rahu is a natural cnemy of Dharma. Here, the implication is that Rahu in 
the first is difficult for the person especially at the time of birth. It might 


Rahu, the North Node 403 


also cause back problems as the Rahu - Ketu axis is associated with the 
spine. 


As always, there is another side to this. If Janma (life) refers to 
the sequence of birth after birth, then Rahu’s impact helps us overcome 
and escape from this sequence. If life was easy and comfortable, no one 
would raise a finger to escape. Thus, when we fall into the Divine Grace, 
we have the malefics to thank, especially Rahu as some of his other names 
make clear. 


. bat ba’ 
% aan ages qa: 
om navame pitrhantre namah 


76. In the ninth house (Navama), he damages (Hantr) the father (Pitr). 


The ‘father’ can mean the father, the grandfather, the paternal 
ancestors and even the whole heritage extending to the race as a whole. It 
may be that the father dies while the child is young or the person may be 
separated from his or her father or may commitacts that are disapproved 
of by the parents or the community. One example could be if the person 
chooses to follow a different religious path. 


3 UH atlenareena Aa: 
om paficame Sokadayakaya namah 


77. In the fifth house (Pavicama), he causes (Dayaka) grief (Shoka). 


The fifth house represents children, so there can be issues in this 
area. People may avoid having children because they feel that, if they 
have children, some unfortunate thing may happen or there may be some 
undesired separation. On the other hand, the children may be brilliant 
and healthy and have a strong association with Rahu in their chart. 


A lack of happiness may be at the root of any tendency to 
gambling, which can result from this placement. There may also be a 
fascination with mantras. If misused this causes all kinds of grief. One 
should approach a fit Guru and receive a suitable mantra for Shri 
Narasimha, Mother Kali or as chosen by the Guru to overcome these 
difficulties and enjoy real happiness in life. 


404 Yoga of the Planets 


S Fad BATA AA: 
om dyune kalatrahantre namah 


78, In the seventh house (Dydina) of marriage, he harms (Hanitr) the 
spouse (Kalatra). 


There may be mitigating factors so a range of different results 
may arise as in the other similar names. If Rahu is strong or aspected by 
beneficial planets like Jupiter, all will largely be well. However, it is not 
uncommon for a separation to occur so people with Rahu in the seventh 
may be married more than once. The second and subsequent marriages 
are seen from other places so the main problem is with the first marriage. 


Rahu in the seventh house indicates that the partner is marked 
by Rahu in some way. Often this indicates someone from another culture 
or social class. This is advised, as marrying someone close to one’s own 
family can have other issues. This might include his being rather fearful 
or suffering from addictions. People often complain about their partner 
having such defects but the indication is in their chart. They chose sucha 
person because they subconsciously wanted or needed to have such an 
experience. That is not an argument for putting up with abuse but one 
has to enlarge one’s heart and understand what there is in this for one to 
learn so the history does not keep repeating. 


A special clue is in this name. Dydne, is a name for the seventh 
house but can also mean playing or gambling. This shows how gambling 
tendencies can be particularly harmful to the spouse. A famous Vedic 
example concerns the noble Yudhishthira, the most righteous of all kings 
who lived at the time of Shri Krishna and is a main player in the great 
epic, the Mahabharata. He was conned into a gambling contest with his 
uncle who was expert with dice. 


Yudhishthira lost everything and since his opponents were of a 
wicked disposition they thought first of publicly humiliating his wife. She 
was dragged before the assembly. Being highly intelligent, she asked how 
she could be lost in gambling because she was not the property of her 
husband. The wisest gathered there concurred, but her clothes were 
considered the property of the king, One degenerate prince stepped 
forward and tried to disrobe her in front of everyone. Helpless, she 
appealed to Lord Krishna and a miracle occurred. However much her sari 
was pulled it kept on unravelling without leaving her uncovered. The silk 
extended itself so far that the vigorous young prince fell down exhausted. 


Rahu, the North Node 405 


4 Ga ASAI AU: 


om saptame kalahapradaya namah 


79. In the seventh house (Saptama), Rahu brings (Prada) strife or a path. 


The seventh house is about marriage and all kinds of 
partnerships. Kalaha indicates strife, contention, quarrel, falsehood or 
abuse. Depending on the individual chart, Rahu can indicate difficulties, 
even problems like those just listed. Remedies should be done if one is 
suffering like this including seeking professional help. 


Without condoning abuse in any way, we note that, as discussed 
above, the best remedy involves friendliness and love. It gradually 
undermines the root cause of the conflict. Kalaha can mean a road or way. 
If Rahu is in the seventh, this placement may show our path in life. 


go ag fader aa: 


om sasthe vittadatre namah 


80. The giver (Datr) of fame and wealth (Vitta) when placed in the sixth 
(sastha) house. 


The sixth is the place of our enemies, inner and outer. Rahu 
defeats them clearing the way for our success. Of course, defeating the 
enemies likely means resorting to aggressive means and _ thus 
perpetuating the tradition of sin and enmity, Rahu keeps the cycle of birth 
and rebirth going. 


de aga daqraHra aA: 


om caturthe vairyadayakaya namah 


81. In the fourth house (Chaturtha), he gives (Dayaka) enmity (Vairya). 


The fourth is the place of relatives and our land and immoveable 
property. There may be disputes with or among the relatives and over 
property. The fourth is one of the Moksha signs. It is the place of blissful 
repose like the fourth state of consciousness, pure being. 


As Rahu represents illusion and craving, it is particularly 
contrary to the nature of the fourth. With Rahu in the fourth, there may 
be an unsettledness or a fear of disturbance. This leads one to look for a 


406 Yoga of the Planets 


deeper state of peace and is thus ultimately beneficial. Learning to live 
with Rahu in one’s heart is to achieve the basis of immortality. 


The fourth is the natural place of the Moon, which rules the 
fourth sign. Rahu associated with the Moon indicates a fearsome form of 
the Goddess, like Goddess Durga. She appears holding weapons but is 
there to protect the righteous and bring liberation to the selfish by 
removing their ego. She helps one transcend one’s own egoistic 
tendencies that are ultimately the sole source of one’s mistakes and 
suffering. The truth that one embodies is forever protected by Her. This 
yoga is challenging but has the highest good as its target. 


$0 qaqa WaT AA: 


om navame papadatre namah 


82. In the ninth house (Navama), he is the giver (Ddatr) of sinfulness 
(Papa). 


The Karaka or significator of the ninth is Jupiter. It is a place of 
conventional or established wisdom and religion. Rahu can make one 
reject this and follow one’s own path. This is the place of the teacher, so 
Rahu may even cause one to promote one’s own vision of religion or 
spirituality. We cannot say this is bad, it is a natural part of the evolution 
of ideas. However, this placement can, with multiple supporting factors, 
lead to religious or ideological fundamentalism. 


Another interpretation could be that some bad decisions 
somehow spoil one’s luck. The ninth house is the main place showing 
one’s fortune due to past good deeds. As always, the individual chart has 
to be carefully studied for compensating factors. 


3 aay BMlhelaH AA: 


om dasame Sokadayakaya namah 


83. Giving (Dayaka) grief (Shoka) in the tenth house (Dashama). The next 
two names elaborate on this. 


$o Met FATA AA: 


om adau yaSahpradatre namah 


Rahu, the North Node 407 


84. In the beginning (Adi}, he gives (Praddatr) fame (Yasha). 


Rahu in the tenth house can give a big boost to one’s career, Rahu 
amplifies things and the tenth, being a growth house, is a place where 
malefic planets do well. However, planets cause growth through their 
own natures, so Rahu’s presence may indicate that one creates some 
negative karma or certain enemies in the process. 


‘ yd 
f Bed HOA aA: 
om ante vairapradayakaya namah 


85. In the end (Anta), he brings (Dayaka) enmity (Vaira). 


The temporal references suggest we can expect these results 
during Rahu Dasha. Success early in the Dasha may have consequences 
that lead to conflict towards the end. As we leave Rahu cycles our 
thinking changes and we re-evaluate our priorities. This can affect 
partnerships formed during Rahu unless there is a strong soul 
connection. 


We could also interpret the last two names as relating to the 
eleventh and twelfth houses. In the eleventh Rahu can bring fame and in 
the twelfth house, it can bring conflict. Those with Rahu in the twelfth 
may have a tendency to fight and some will end their lives violently 
because of that tendency. 


According to the Vedic Astrology classics, Rahu in the twelfth 
indicates one goes to some lower world after death. However, if there are 
compensating beneficial factors in the chart, someone with Rahu in the 
twelfth will try to achieve the immortal state in this life. Since the twelfth 
indicates transcendence and Rahu indicates infinite expansion, this is 
perfectly possible. 


4 hiSicAa AA: 


om kalatmane namah 


86. Whose soul (Atman) is time (Kala). 


Rahu is often said to be a ‘karmic’ planet, that is an indicator 
along with Ketu of intense destiny from the past. In my experience, it is 
the transits of Rahu that can be used to successfully predict major events 
for individuals and mankind. Kala has the sense of time and the 


408 Yoga of the Planets 


measuring of time. It is also the dark blue colour so this could be read as 
‘dark souled’. People tend to fear time like they fear darkness because the 
future is unknown to them like an unlighted place. In the great Yoga 
Sdtras of Rishi Patafijali, he describes how the past present and future 
meet at a point on the edge of absolute consciousness and can thereby be 
known if the awareness is completely still. 


This state is filled with light, as it were, illuminating all space and 
time. As the mind becomes quieter, the extent to which one can see 
increases. To begin with, one might just sense what will happen in the 
next few hours, Later, events far distant in time can be known. Jyotisha is 
the science by which we can confirm this inner vision through precise 
calculations and thus distinguish between truth and delusions. 


In Kerala and some other parts of India famous for their great 
astrological traditions, when an important question arises they call 
several learned astrologers and let them debate. The outcome is not 
dependent on a single person’s view but is made certain and more refined 
by the coming together of the group of experts. Once, when visiting 
Southern India, | picked up a local paper and saw an article describing 
such a session going on at the local temple. The astrologers were talking 
inside the temple while the public was listening on loudspeakers outside. 
An astrologer said “Within five minutes a snake will appear near the 
Murti (the image of worship).” Another said, “Everyone is listening, we 
will look fools if it does not happen.” The first astrologer said “T will burn 
all my books if the prediction fails.” Then the snake appeared. 


A great Guru once debated how the world should be guided. If 
one formed a council to reflect on Earth the Supreme Intelligence, how 
many enlightened persons would be needed? Someone, probably for 
sycophantic reasons, suggested just one. The teacher responded that one 
would never be enough because any one person, however profound and 
pure, would always have their view influenced by personal tendencies. A 
group could rise above these and reflect the highest truth in a pure way. 
He pointed out that the book of Supreme wisdom, the Rig Veda, which 
contains the vibrations of natural law required many seers to bring it 
forth so the council might require the number of the seers of the Veda, 
some 300. 


So TACIT Aa: 


om gocaracaraya namah 


87. Moving through the zodiac. 


Rahu, the North Node 409 


Chara is about moving, Gochara is the field in which the planets 
(Go) move (Chara). Gochara is the field that is visible to the senses, so this 
name gives us the clue that Rahu projects us into the sensory or worldly 
field. This is a strong characteristic of Rahu’s Dasha. Especially in the 
early stages one may not even listen to one’s friends who caution one 
about any rush to try to achieve the worldly desires that have seized one. 
On the other hand, this is part of the cosmic design. Rahu’s cycles help 


one grow and can give deep realization especially around the time that 
they end. 


H Tel BPS AH: 


om dhane kakutpradaya namah 


88. In the second house (Dhana), he gives (Prada) the position and 
insignia of royalty (or high position). 


Kakud (‘d’ becomes ‘t’ in the compound word) means a peak and 
since the word used for the second house refers to wealth, this could 
mean giving a pile of cash. This also applies to Rahu in Taurus. I have 
often noticed that this position can give abundant material wealth or at 
least the show of it but what is hidden is the cost being paid. That cost 
may be acts which some would consider scandalous, However, one 
cannot jump to conclusions, much depends on the position of Venus, ruler 
of Taurus, as well as other factors. 


do Gay faRUPaRaTa aH: 


om paficame dhisanasrngadaya namah 


89. In the fifth house (Paficama), he gives high intelligence. 


Dhishana means intelligence. Shrnga is ‘horn-like’ which means 
penetrating or very high. One version of this mantra has Ashrnga, which 
suggests that focus is missing or, in special circumstances can mean the 
very highest. That is, on one level the intelligence may be lacking in focus 
but, with profound realization, the intelligence can be most highly 
perfected. In either reading, there is a potential for a remarkable mind 
but sometimes there can be some possibility for confusion if other factors 
also indicate this. 


One apparent example of confused intelligence is if the person is 
heavily involved with some risky form of speculation, a characteristic of 


410 Yoga of the Planets 


the fifth house. They may even be trying to make a living from it. They 
may insist that they do not have a gambling problem, are not even 
gambling and are, in fact, routinely winning. 


Rahu typically makes one react with denial. That is howhe keeps 
one under his control. If one can get perspective, then one will get greater 
clarity. Forswearing denial is a good start. There is nothing intrinsically 
wrong with what one is doing apart from the slippery slope and the 
consequences of slipping so there is no need for guilt. There is great need 
for realism though. We should be especially realistic about the level of 
stress we are experiencing. There is always another way. 


So Aa AA: 


om svarbhanave namah 


90. Lord of the heavens (Svarbhdanu). 


This is normally a name for the Sun but Rahu can overpower the 
Sun so he can claim this title. It also means ‘censuring the Sun’ which can 
be taken as eclipsing the Sun. This can affect a person who has Rahu 
associated with the Sun (Bhdnu). Here the Sun stands for the sense of self, 
Rahu represents a sense of something overshadowing or causing a defect 
in the self. This gives rise to a self-critical feeling, which can echo in 
feeling others are critical of one. There may be issues with the father and 
a need to prove oneself better than him. This combination is found in 
many leading politicians. One can seek to be the lord of the heavens in 
one’s own sphere. 


The sense of being less is the illusion Rahu is creating. We must 
try to see through it. Any idea that one is flawed inside is a fake. It is a real 
feeling but does not tell us anything about the truth. The self is the Self, 
the Divinity itself, always. Seek to know That, 


% aie aa: 


om baline namah 


91. The powerful one (Balin). 


This name helps us understand the remedy to Rahu’s challenges. 
Our normal response, when faced with a Rahu affliction like the one just 
mentioned, is to struggle with it. This is why we are reminded of his 
strength. The affliction by Rahu of the Sun is the toughest because it is on 


Rahu, the North Node 411 


the soul level and that cannot be remedied by any activity of the mind or 
body. The Sun dislikes being eclipsed but its way of staying peaceful is to 
accept the inevitable. For us, we have to consider the nature of the 
problem. The Sun is light and Rahu is darkness, so one feels the classic 
conflict between these two. However, the Truth is beyond both and That 
is what we are. This is why one does not have to drive out the darkness to 
restore the light, which is what one inevitably tries to do, at least until 
one finds it hopeless or one comes to understand. Faced with this 
impossible situation, one has to relax so that one sees that the self is 
never eclipsed except from the viewpoint of the world. As the Self, it is 
never afflicted. 


do Terahearanted aa: 
om mahasaukhyapradayine namah 


92. Giving (Pradayin) great health and happiness (Mahasaukhya). This is 
especially possible if we achieve the state just described. 


do Usa AH: 


om candravairine namah 


93. Having enmity (Vaira) with the Moon (Chandra). 


Having told us about the conflict with the Sun, we are informed 
about the issues with the Moon. With the Sun, it was a sense of being 
flawed. With the Moon, it is about Vaira or enmity. This can cause anger 
and confusion in the mind as the mind is signified by the Moon. The Moon 
also signifies the Mother, motherhood and society. 


If one feels angry towards one’s mother, then it is good to heal 
this. Letting it fester can make us sick eventually. An effective way to heal 
is to forgive and forget. If the mother has died or is absent, it does not 
matter. The only thing that matters is how we feel when one remembers 
her. One must use one’s mind and heart to cross over any resentment, 
and find a place of sweetness and love. The wonderfu! thing about Vedic 
Astrology is that it shows one how a person feels and why. One can see 
the burden she carried. Even if someone has greatly mistreated one, only 
compassion can arise because one knows how hard it was for her. We 
may think another person does not care for one, but the truth is that 


412 Yoga of the Planets 


everyone tries their best within their mental and physical circumstances, 
which can be very restricting. 


3 WIAA AA: 


om sasvataya namah 


94. Eternal (Shashvata). 


There are two aspects of eternity. The universe continues and its 
immortal basis continues. Rahu is connected to both. Rahu represents the 
tradition of birth and rebirth, which appears to lie endlessly before us. At 
the same time, he can help us find that whichis truly eternal, the Supreme 
Being. Shashvata is a name of Lord Shiva. Meditating on Him as absolute 
unchanging consciousness takes us out of the tradition of worldly pains. 
It does not matter what name your God has, if that God is the Supreme 
Being beyond space and time, then that is the One to meditate on. 


% GTA FA: 


om suraSatrave namah 


95. The enemy (Shatru) of the divine ones. 


Sura means one who drinks the nectar and so Rahu could be 
thought of as drying up or depriving us of that nectar, which comes 
through deep peace. He gives us no peace, which is what this name 
indicates. However, the universe requires balance. That means someone 
has to oppose the gods. The friction causes growth and evolution. 
Evolution takes us towards that which is beyond the gods and their 
enemies, the Supreme Being. Rahu is a very powerful force of evolution. 


30 FQ Aa: 


om papagrahaya namah 


96. A Graha bringing trouble or sin (Papa). 


Sin means a tendency to acts of unkindness or selfishness. Graha 
literally means grasping and this name gives the clue that this is the cause 
of sin. Like the famous mantra ‘What’s in it for me?’ We all have to look 
after ourselves but society depends on a certain degree of cooperation. It 


Rahu, the North Node 413 


helps to be truly honest with ourselves about what we need and what we 
are giving. Giving is the best remedy for his troubles. At least it creates 
good, which will come back to us in the future. 


3 Wea AA: 


om sambhavaya namah 


97. Related to or devoted to Shambhu, Lord Shiva (Shambhava). 


This name identifies Rahu with the absolute power, the one who 
is always awake, always kind, granting happiness and who brings all 
things eventually to rest or fulfillment. [t means Rahu arises from Him 
and is devoted to Him. Therefore, Rahu will protect other devotees of 
Shiva. The same name occurs under Ketu, as do several of these last 
names. 


This mantra is an excellent remedy for any lack of peacefulness 
that we may experience under his influence. One’s distress is caused by 
one’s mistakes fructifying and one’s wanton tendencies awakening. He 
facilitates this because our space needs cleaning and we need to see the 
nature of the unreal. If we really understand him properly, he is not 
different from the Lord or pure peacefulness. 


0 TeaHe aA: 


om pujyakaya namah 


98, Worthy of worship. 


Giving him respect works, fighting with him does not. However, it 
is better to worship a related deity like Lord Shiva or Mother Durga or 
use a name for him like the last one that awakens the higher side. 


Pajyaka also indicates the father-in-law or a person worthy of 
honour. Wherever Rahu falls in the Vedic chart, that is a place that 
indicates people worthy of our deep respect. Strangely, the gut reaction is 
usually to have issues with them. Perhaps one has good reasons for this. 
However, this name comes to save one from this trap as finding fault will 
only open a Pandora’s Box of troubles. The people concerned are 
indicated by the conjoined planets or the house Rahu occupies, not by 
Rahu himself. 


414 Yoga of the Planets 


4 TERQUIG Aa: 


om patiraptranaya namah 


99, An ancient (Purana) sieve (Patira). 


Rahu sieves us, he shakes us up and then all our patterns fall 
though his sieve and we gradually get straightened out. This is along and 
thus ancient process. Patira can also mean a cloud, field or sandal tree. 
Whether he is a cloud that has hung over us for a long time, a field we 
have wandered in for lifetimes or even a sweet smelling tree we cannot 
leave alone, it is all part of what he is. 


As it happens, sanda! powder is obtained from the wood using a 
kind of sieve. Our essence is divine but Rahu’s sieving helps make its 
perfume become apparent. It allows us to experience what we really are. 


a WlaaRoeaM 7A: 


om paithinasakulodbhavaya namah 


100. Born (Udbhava) in the family (Kula) of Rishi Paithinasa. 


Paithinasa was the author of an Upasmriti (law book), one of the 
branches of Vedic wisdom. He was the son or descendant of Pithinasa 
who is mentioned in the Rig Veda (6:26). The clue is that Rahu is all about 
the law. He may mark troublemakers, fraudsters and even serious 
criminals but his action is to punish our transgressions from the past, 
perhaps long past. This is how he gets associated with Rudra and the 
Nakshatra of Ardra, which lies in the centre of Gemini. Rudra is the Vedic 
Shiva who stands in Ardra, bow drawn to punish those who deviate from 
the path of righteousness. This Nakshatra is prominent in the charts of 
many Vedic Astrologers. Something has motivated one to study the 
natural law and seek the grace that the knowledge bestows. 


This may be what the Bible Genesis story is telling us. It is an 
allegory for the loss of pure innocence and the indulgence in worldly 
concepts and ideas, ‘differentiating between good and evil’ as the Bible 
says. The cause is listening to the snake. Rahu is the chief of the snakes, 
the Kundalini Shakti, and while it is not fully risen, it leads one here and 
there into all kinds of complexities. Once awakened it disappears, as it 
were, leaving that pure innocence restored. As the Vedanta says, there 
was no snake, it was the same Divinity all along and that is our very 
nature. It alone exists. 


Rahu, the North Node 415 


$0 ACT AA: 


om bhaktaraksaya namah 


101. Protecting (Raksa) the devotees (Bhakta). 


Even Rahu and Ketu are ready to protect those who are 
characterized by humility and respect. Those who think they can protect 
themselves from trouble by being troublesome to others or more clever, 
can hardly succeed. Destiny is always more powerful and will find acrack 
in the defences. However, those who have a simple respectfulness for 
every form of the divine, whatever its appearance, are beloved even of 
the most terrible powers. 


do USAC AA: 


om rahumirtaye namah 


102. Taking form (Murti) as Rahu. 


It is the One Cosmic Intelligence that manifests as Rahu. There is 
no one else! This resolves the whole debate about whether there is a devil 
separate from God and questions like ‘if God made everything, how can 
there be evil?’ If we can see the total picture, we will understand the Will 
that is directing everything according to His Law and appreciate its pure 
compassion. 


e 
40 WAP HICH Aa: 


om sarvabhistaphalapradaya namah 


103. Giving (Prada) all desired results (Sarva Abhista Phala). 


This name promises us everything we could ask for so we know 
that we do not have to wait for another Graha to help us or save us. 


His intelligence and problem-solving ability is behind all 
mankind's incredible technological development. We often think that, 
with some more research, we can solve our problems. The benefits are 
great but each step forward opens up increasingly powerful risks. Every 
scientist knows that there are many unforeseeable consequences to each 
discovery. The web is literally becoming more and more vast and tangled. 
This is the nature of Rahu so it is sure that this side of his intelligence 


416 Yoga of the Planets 


does not guarantee our survival. | believe that this and other names are 
primarily pointing to the other side of his nature. That aspect which can 
save us as mentioned in Rahu 101. If we are in the hands of Rahu, he can 
help us if we show sufficient respect. This sounds easy but it requires an 
extraordinary amount of humility. 


dara aa: 
om dirghaya namah 


104. Long (Dirgha). 


His Dasha is 18 years and it can seem like several lifetimes! Jt 
teaches us to bear gracefully with many ups and downs. This is a very 
valuable benefit but one which is fully appreciated after the Dasha ends. 
Dirgha can also mean something deep or elevated. 


3 PUTA Ae: 


om krsnaya namah 


105. Dark coloured (Krsna). 


The absolute consciousness has a little bluish colour, Thus this 
name indicates a very profound manifestation of the Supreme, not just a 
darkness to fear. it also suggests that remembering Lord Krishna can help 
us overcome all the troubles of Rahu. Lord Krishna is the Avatara related 
to the Moon. He has the Moon rising in Taurus in his chart with Venus 
conjoined Rahu in Cancer. His Moon overcame every terrorizing entity he 
faced. 


es 
30 Adeq A: 
om atanave namah 


106. Bodiless (Atanu). Or one who is not thin, not small. He has no body 
but is still vast. It also means he is coarse. It is hard to be refined under 
his influence. If we manage it, we are great! 


Rahu, the North Node 417 


4 s SN 
4 PTAA AA: 
om visnunetraraye namah 


107. The enemy of the luminaries. 


The Sun and the Moon are said to be the eyes of the Lord (Visau 
Netra). By hiding them he becomes their enemy. However, Ari can also 
mean faithful or attached. This is how the Rahu of one person having a 
similar degree to a luminary in another person's chart can make the two 
very attached to each other. Then, at times, it can seem like a love-hate 
relationships. This name encapsulates this experience. After all Rahu only 
exists because of the orbits of the Sun and the Moon. He is astronomically 
inseparable from them. 


do aq AA: 


om devaya namah 


108. A divine being (Deva), and at the same time... 


3 alata AA: 


om danavaya namah 


109. A demonic being (Danava). 


He is both divine and demonic; he is beyond the range of 
humanity and can take us to any of the other realms. He can terrify us or 
protect us, curse us or bless us, It is up to us, how we are with him. 


This is the 109% name. Being a natural contrarian, Rahu has to 
have an extra name. The 108t was, as usual in these sets of names, pure 
divinity. This just gives us anotherchance to love him, like the friend who 
has a ‘but’ for anything we say. 


~ 


Om tat sat 


418 Yoga of the Planets 


Ketu, the South Node 


Ketu, the South Node 419 


KETU, THE SOUTH NODE 


do Had aa: 
om ketave namah 


1. Salutations to the ray of light. 


Ketu is one of the eclipse points where the Sun, Moon, and Earth 
align. it is the South node of the Moon. This is the point where the Moon 
crosses the ecliptic and starts to move to the South of the path of the Sun. 
It is interesting that the South node is associated with liberation and the 
North node, Rahu, is associated with illusion. 


Looking up at the sky, if we see two planets close together it is 
natural to make the inference that the planet higher in the sky, closer to 
the pole, is somehow dominating the one below it. In the Northern 
hemisphere, this means, the planet that is more to the North. This is why, 
in Vedic Astrology, the planet to the North is usually considered the 
winner in ‘planetary war’, a phenomenon when two planets come within 
one zodiacal degree of each other. In simple terms, two planets that are 
very close together compete and the one to the North wins, unless the 
lower one is exceptionally bright (like Venus). 


The Sun represents the soul or consciousness. The Moon 
represents the mind. When the Moon starts to rise above the Sun’s path, 
then it is as if the mind is gaining ground over the soul, The Sun 
represents our true knowing, which is a function of something more 
fundamental than the mind. The Vedas say that the mind arises out of the 
heart. Feelings arise out of the heart. Mind and feelings are both 
represented by the Moon. The Sun represents the heart. When the Moon 
moves to the North, we move out of our knowing into our needs and 
wants, hence the uprising of illusion that Rahu represents. 


When the Moon moves to the South, it is as if the inner knowing 
is gaining ground over the worldly tendencies. There is more core 
honesty. We can enjoy many things but fundamentally we know that we 
do not need them. This realization is a part of liberation and this is 
indicated by Ketu. Ketu is the significator of enlightenment. This 
astronomical explanation is my way of remembering the roles of Rahu 


420 Yoga of the Planets 


and Ketu. [It does not mean liberation is reversed in the Southern 
hemisphere. 


Ketu is an eclipse point but it is not about darkness even though 
it may look like a black hole. A black hole is something into which one 
falls and, at a certain point, passes beyond any chance of return. Scientists 
used to think that black holes were black, but then Stephen Hawkings 
(author of A Brief History of Time) showed that they actually glow. In the 
universe we find some extraordinary phenomena, light shows on the 
grandest possible scale, arise due to black holes. 


The picture below is of a jet streaming out from the vicinity of a 
black hole in the centre of a galaxy. The jet is many times bigger than any 
galaxy and is pure Ketu (photo from the Hubble Space Telescope, 
courtesy of ESA/NASA). 


The Brahma Sutras, the great Vedantic text, end with a short 
aphorism that is repeated twice, ‘andvrttih Sabd@dandvrttih Sabdat’. \t 
means that ‘from here there is no return, this is the teaching’. The Brahma 
Sitras describe the stages of final enlightenment - the various states or 
experiences along the way. Only when one passes beyond that point of no 
return is one truly out of the field of relativity just like a particle crossing 
the event horizon of a black hole. Beyond that, ordinary Physics breaks 
down. It is utterly beyond our comprehension. 


It is interesting that we are now discovering black holes all over 
the place, more than a hundred within our own galaxy. There is an 
enormous one at the centre of our own galaxy (in early Sagittarius), but 
many others are scattered here and there. Even a smaller one is heading 


Ketu, the South Node 421 


our way though it is not expected to swallow the Earth. | grew up with the 
real possibility of a black hole being only a theoretical idea. Now we find 
that we are living in close proximity to a whole family of them. 


% (SRA aa: 


om sthilasirase namah 


2. Having a massive head (Shiras). 


Sthula can mean big, dense and coarse. This name could indicate 
stupidity, but also that state where the experience of the head has 
become a sense of infinity, as if our small head is vast. Both of these states 
are forms of headlessness. 


This name may seem surprising at first but Ketu is the planet of 
surprises. Something that is windy and tends to reduce everything to 
nothing would be expected to be rather slight, even invisible. Jt is just like 
the black holes. The hole itself is invisible but in addition to the glow from 
the periphery, it produces the cosmic fireworks like that seen in the 
photo above. These are a result of the massive gravitational force around 
the black hole that is constantly swallowing matter. The matter may 
disappear but the hole gets heavier bending space itself in a very intense 
way. 


This name is also related to Ketu representing mistakes. 
Someone who makes mistakes is called thick-headed. Ketu causes 
mistakes by making us headless. This effect has numerous expressions 
from the fundamentalist who is headlessly following good or bad advice, 
to the saint who has made the ultimate mistake, from the point of view of 
the materialists, in disregarding everything of the world. 


Rahu is the head and Ketu the headless. Thus, in the extreme 
case, Rahu represents those who start every sentence with ‘l’ and Ketu, 
those who speak of themselves in the third person. 


> RTARTA AA: 
om-Siromatraya namah 


3. Headless, Literally reaching as far (Matra) as the head (Shiras). 


422 Yoga of the Planets 


The implication of Ketu 2 and 3 are that up to the head (Shiras), 
he is measureable (Matra) and beyond that he is immeasurable. Those 
marked by Ketu function in the world but are psychically vast. 


We can continue with the black hole analogy as it is more than an 
analogy. Ketu is a massive body without any face. There is no point asking 
for mercy, it is a one-way ticket. On the other hand, the black holes at the 
centres of galaxies sustain all the life in that galaxy rather as the Sun does 
for our solar system in that they have been a key part of the structuring of 
the galaxy and contributing to the distribution of valuable elements. 


Nothing biological could survive an approach to the Sun but it 
cannot live without it. The Sun’s radiation is a direct consequence of its 
gravitational field. The nuclei in it are crushed together causing nuclear 
reactions and producing radiation that, sufficiently diluted by distance 
and filtering, sustains life. A dying Sun, if heavy enough, can become a 
candidate for a black hole. Attracting more and mure matter, the massive 
gravitational field can support a far greater living whole. It is rather like 
the way dying organic matter merges with the earth and sustains the 
living. 


The Rahu - Ketu axis is related to the spinal column. Ketu is the 
tail but also the whole column up to the head. This axis in the chart can be 
used to see if the person will suffer from back ache or more serious spinal 
problems. 


This name also means the greatest peak. Nothing is greater than 
infinity. Ketu represents the ultimate achievement, liberation or Moksha 
in Sanskrit. In the previous name we discussed mistakes as a part of 
headlessness. Most problems can be traced back to a lack of full attention 
or full awareness. Strangely, only when we lose our ‘head’ can we 
experience full awareness. 


apa AA: 
om dhvajakrtaye namah 


4. His form is a flag or mark (Dhvaja). Causing (Akrti) a mark. 


Wherever Ketu is found in the astrological chart, a flag is raised. 
Something out of the usual is indicated there. The word Ketu is also used 
for comets, meteors and omens. They signify a portent of some unusual 
phenomena for good or ill. We love them and we hate them. Something 
unusual will always attract a crowd but we may try to avoid the 


Ketu, the South Node 423 


unexpected for fear it threatens our existence. Ketu is associated with 
great anxiety but it has its own incomprehensible attraction. 


When one person's Ketu connects with a personal marker, like 
the Moon, in another's chart, they often feel drawn to each other despite 
the obvious potential for distress. 


A serious mistake is said to ‘raise a flag’. Flags also denote royalty 
and important places like shrines. If Ketu sits in the fourth house, 
denoting place of residence, one may live in a palace or may raise a flag or 
obvious signboard outside. 


d AaVEGAM Aa: 


om navagrahayutaya namah 


5. One of the nine seizers (Nava Graha). 


The planets seize or control our lives or so it appears. Most 
literally, this name means that Ketu is that power that arises if they all 
join together (Yuti). There is a story of the Mother Goddess. The Gods 
gathered to invoke Her to defeat the demonic forces that were harassing 
the world. All their powers merged together and from that Her form 
arose. 


She is the cosmic Shakti or power and Shakti is associated with 
Mars. Ketu is said to be like Mars, so Ketu is also profoundly about the 
Shakti. Ketu makes everything very subtle. When conjoined with Mars, it 
refines that power, which can awaken the Kundalini. Even on its own, 
Ketu is capable of wielding any kind of power and producing any kind of 
result. 


Another meaning of this name is that it can be separated from 
the other eight planets, as in the Chara Karaka scheme (personal 
significator scheme) and in Astottari Dasha, one of the most important 
Dasha systems that lay out the planetary periods in a life. | will explain 
this Dasha in a forthcoming book, 


do fifensqemaora aa: 
om simhika'surigarbhasambhavaya namah 


6. Born (Sambhava) in the womb (Garbha) of the demonness (Asuri) 
Simhikd, This is discussed under Rahu 2. 


424 Yoga of the Planets 


Jo HENGE AA: 


om mahabhitikaraya namah 


7. Causing (Kara) great anxiety (Maha Bhiti). 


Rahu is said to cause Bhaya or fear. Ketu causes Bhiti or anxiety. 
Bhiti is alarm or dread. It is what you feel when you see an omen or sign 
of approaching danger. We will sce that Ketu represents the end of things. 
When we are invested in something continuing, as we are in normal life, 
anticipated endings can be frightening like the iceberg in front of the 
Titanic. As Mark Twain said, “Courage is resistance to fear, mastering 
fear, not the absence of fear.” 


do Faaqurra an: 


om citravarnaya namah 


8. Of brilliant or variegated appearance (Varna). 


This is the first of many names of Ketu containing the word 
Chitra. Chitra also means bright, clear, spotted, diversified, different, 
surprising, wonderful or strange. As a noun, it means a picture or 
painting, a brilliant ornament, an extraordinary appearance, wonder, the 
heavens and a type of leprosy, because of its visible appearance. 


Chitra is one of the 27 lunar mansions or Nakshatras, the Vedic 
constellations. Ketu is profoundly connected with this Nakshatra. Rahu is 
said to be born or of the nature of Ashwini, the first Nakshatra (Rahu 44), 
Naturally, when Rahu is arising at the beginning of Ashwini, Ketu is in the 
middle of Chitra where we find one of the most beautiful and bright stars 
on the zodiac which we call Spica. Indeed, many astrologers mark the 
zodiac by taking this as the 180 degree point. There is no obvious star at 
zero degrees of Aries. Like Rahu it is quite dark, We have seen that Ketu 
acts as a flag. That is why Spica is taken as the flag that marks the zodiac. 


According to Surya Siddhanta, the most ancient of the extant 
Vedic astronomical texts, this is where Ketu was when the solar system 
began. This means that the astronomical computations of the planetary 
and Lunar nodal! positions start from a moment when this situation 
prevailed. The centre of Chitra is associated with Shakti, who manifests 
the universe and opposite is Shiva, the unmanifest. That is why there is 
no visible star at the beginning of Ashwini. In the context of the teaching 
of Shri Pada Shri Vallabha, the first Avatara of Lord Dattatreya, it is 


Ketu, the South Node 425 


explained that the power of any star is ata maximum exactly 180 degrees 
from it. He took birth in Chitra on the day sacred to Ganesha. 


This is also the way it is in the structure of the Rig Veda, the most 
fundamental of the Vedic texts from which everything else emerges. The 
other Vedic texts and even the whole universe appear from the Rig Veda 
as a commentary on it. The Rig Veda starts with a verse that is said to 
contain the whole teaching. Half way through the first Mandala or circle, 
which is also said to contain the whole, traditionally there is located an 
unmanifest verse (Avyakta Sakta), which was to be recited silently. Thus 
an outer expression is matched on the opposite side by an inner one. 
While the outer one is obvious, the texts tell us that the inner repetition is 
vastly more powerful in its effects. 


Interpret this as you will; the zodiac is a Mandala or circle and it 
moves from an emptiness with great potential to a manifest fullness and 
then back to where it started but with the wisdom of the journey. 


oH tRaeHa AA: 


om Sripingalaksakaya namah 


9. Like a beautiful auspicious tawny coloured eye. 


The use of the words Shri Pingala strongly points to the 
connection with the Pingala Nadi, one of the three subtle channels that 
run up the spine. Pingala relates to the Sun and the right nostril. The Ida 
is therefore associated with Rahu and is related to the Moon and the left 
nostril. 


Pingala also means fire, a kind of owl, a kind of snake or a famous 
treasure. Aksha means eye but is also knowledge, an axis or axle, and the 
soul. It is easy to construct descriptions of Ketu from all of these. Ketu is 
an Agni or fire element Graha. 


Some mantras activate the Pingala and some the Ida. That is why, 
when you are initiated, you may be given two and they must be done 
together. However, the mantra given by a saint should activate the central 
channel, Susumna, and can be safely done on its own. 


426 Yoga of the Planets 


4 FOIATRIA AA: 


om phulladhamasakasaya namah 


10. Having the appearance (Sakasha) of a great cloud, smoke or a meteor 
extending across the sky (Phulla Dhama). 


Phulla can also indicate horripilation. This can be due to an 
exciting or frightening omen like a meteor. The onset of awakening when 
the Kundalini rises can have this effect. 


Ketu’s planetary cycle lasts for seven years. During that time 
many unexpected things may happen and we may receive various kinds 
of offers. While these may look promising, we can easily spend Ketu 
running around chasing dreams. His smoke is preventing us discerning 
what is useful. This can give rise to nervous strain and windy problems. 
We may get run down physically. We should try to maintain a good diet 
and routine and be very discriminating about where the energy goes. 


Even though Ketu signifies enlightenment and can give profound 
flashes of it, Ketu’s cycle can make it hard to meditate in a regular way. It 
is perhaps more about attention to the profundity Ketu signifies than 
repeating a mantra or other practices. 


do dhureera aa: 
om tiksnadamstraya namah 


11. Having terrible teeth (Tiksna Damstra). 


This makes them terrifying. Teeth are for killing prey and 
devouring food. He devours whatever comes near. The teeth also make 
the food digestible and thus capable of nourishing. The fear that arises is 
thus based on a misunderstanding of the true value of his presence. The 
part of us that is to be eaten objects but that is not what we are, just what 
we identify with out of ignorance. 


Ho Hela AH: 


om mahodaraya namah 


12. Having a large (Maha) belly (Udara). 


Ketu, the South Node 427 


This is also a name of Lord Ganesha and has connections to Ketu 
45. The large belly can indicate a vast or unlimited capacity as 
experienced when the consciousness touches infinity. It also indicates 
great power as the belly is related to the third Chakra of power. This 
name enlightens one if one is frightened by the last name. Due to his 
power and capacity, Ketu can give any amount in any way of anything. He 
is the inner power of the great and the wise. 


So Thala AA: 
om raktanetraya namah 


13. Red eyed (Rakta Netra). 


This is like Mars. 1t also could indicate a Yog1. It is said in the 
yogic texts that the eyes of a Yogi are red, black and white. I have seen 
this in the eyes of a great Yogi. Maybe they have more blood flow in the 
head as some research has suggested and that expands the blood vessels. 


A more profound view is that the eyes of a great soul naturally 
shine. Rakta means impassioned. The eye is the gateway of the heart. A 
heart on fire with truth shows in the glow of the eyes. Ketu can excite 
desire as it activates the Kundalini Shakti and that can initially energize 
the second Chakra. This also puts passion in the eyes, though of a 
different kind. 


: Nn 
o Fasano) aa: 
om citrakarine namah 


14. Causing (X@rin) clarity or wonderment (Chitra). 


As we discussed above, Ketu is deeply associated with Chitra 
Nakshatra and its wonderful star Spica. He, like Mars, gives mental clarity 
and can help with conceiving abstract notions or forms. By reducing 
whatever it touches, he can also reduce the noise in the mind and give 
rise to true inner silence. It is said in the Shiva Satras (I. 12) 'vismayo 
yogabhamika’ - the stages of Yoga, inner union, are a wonder. He brings 
these about. 


428 Yoga of the Planets 


do Haas an: 
omttivrakopaya namah 


15. Having intense anger or ardent passion (Tivrakopa). 


Also acute disorders, endless morbid irritation and more such 
meanings. This is part of his reducing process. As mentioned above, he 
can excite strong passion. This can be extremely positive if properly 
focussed, It takes ardent passion to achieve the greatest things. 


¥¢ Aalge AA: 


om mahasuraya namah 


16. The great (Mahd) demon (Asura). 


The feminine form of this name is used for Mother Durga 
because she killed the great demons. When Ketu is under feminine 
influence in a birth chart by association with the Moon or Venus, then She 
may be propitiated to help with any difficulties we are having with love 
or our emotional life. She will help us overcome our ego, and thus attain 
true wisdom. 


$0 HLHISTA AA: 


om krtrakanthaya namah 


17. Having a wounded (Kréra) throat (Kantha), 


It was cut by Lord Vishnu as explained under Rahu 4. Ketu 
restricts expression especially in association with Mercury or the second 
or third house or its ruler as all these are connected with communication. 
It can also mean having a fierce or cruel voice. While Krtra almost always 
has a negative connotation, it can also mean formidable and Ketu has the 
ability to make magic out of anything. If Ketu is associated with 
communication and we can get over any anger issues due to a sense of 
being wounded, then his magic can give us a special power of speech. 


Another version of this name is Papakantaka meaning a sinful 
impediment or thorn. 


Ketu, the South Node 429 


do ANAT AA: 
om krodhanidhaye namah 


18. The receptacle of anger (Krodha Nidhi). 


This is how we tend to respond to restriction. Ketu restricts 
strongly and that can lead to a sense of frustration. Frustration is the 
receptacle of anger. If we feel frustrated, we should try to relax inside of it 
because the combinations that give rise to frustration in a birth chart do 
not go away. Temporary feelings of frustration can come due to planetary 
transits that pass quite quickly, but they last as long as they last. Nothing 
is gained by struggling with them. We may fee! that the problem is due to 
some other person, the government, or many other things, but it is 
helpful to note that other people in a similar situation are not always 
feeling the same way. Anger will make us ill if it persists so, for our own 
well-being, we need to find a way to let go. This is what Ketu wants 
because our liberation is in letting go. 


Letting go is not easy as long as we imagine that there is 
something to be gained from not letting go. The Yoga Sutras tell us that 
letting go, called Sarhyama, is exactly the technique for fulfilling desire. 
Thus, both liberation and worldly fullfilment come from letting go and yet 
we hang on and remain frustrated. Ketu's teaching is that whatever we 
think, try doing the opposite. This is explained in the faimini Upadesha 
Sitras 


S BMT AA: 
om-chayagrahavisesakaya namah 


19. He is distinguished (Vishesaka) by being a shadow Graha (Chhaya 
Graha). 


Ketu is an invisible point that shows itself in the form of a 
shadow when the Sun and Moon align. That shadow, allows us to see 
sights which are otherwise invisible (see also Rahu 31). 


$0 Aecquely AA: 


om antyagrahaya namah 


20. The last (Antya) Graha, the ninth. 


430 Yoga of the Planets 


He indicates the end, and thus Moksha, the end of the ego and the 
complete letting go of all identification. Some astrologers call Ketu the 
most malefic because he can mark the end of whatever he associates 
with. However, that is only frightening for that which is coming to an end 
which ultimately is the illusion of the individual as the ‘doer’. When that 
illusion has ended, everything continues endlessly. Ketu has no quarrel 
with anything of the world but, in the phase of our hanging on and 
resisting, everything becomes fair game for sacrifice. Whatever we are 
identifying with can be taken away to show us what is real. 


0 Tens Aa: 
om mahasirsaya namah 


21. Who has a vast (Maha) head (Shirsa). 


He will not be pushed out of the way. The most massive bodies in 
the universe are black holes. As discussed and illustrated above, it has 
now been found that there are enormous biack holes at the centre of all 
galaxies including our own. Their masses are millions or billions of Suns 
but they are invisible except for the extraordinary Ketu-like effects 
created around them. 


Ketu is the significator for Moksha, liberation. The primary 
characteristic of that is infinite consciousness. Normally we associate the 
head with consciousness and the crown Chakra. This is where infinity is 
imagined to reside and is just above the top of the head. The state of 
transcendence is like one’s head having gone to infinity. It is truly vast. 


Rahu is the head of the demon and Ketu is the trunk. So the Ketu 
experience is being headless. This can mean mindless behaviour or the 
state of Moksha where the head, the individuality, has been replaced by 
infinity. In this case, we become Maha, great. That is why saints are called 
Mahatma, great souled. 


, qos 
do Gana au: 
om siiryaraye namah 
22. The enemy (Ar/) of the Sun (Surya). 


As Ketu eclipses the Sun, it acts like an enemy. The Sun is our 
vitality and Ketu can wear away at it. On the other hand, the rea) beauty 
of the solar corona is only seen when an eclipse occurs. When one feels 


Ketu, the South Node 431 


eclipsed, something less obvious may be revealed. Those with Ketu on the 
Ascendant or with the Sun live feeling perpetually eclipsed. However, 
they fascinate others in certain ways. The glory of the Sun is not for the 
Sun to enjoy. What we are is for others, not for us. Naturally letting it 
shine as it will, brings wonderful good to us and to others. 


% Qaagied AA: 
om puspavadgrahine namah 


23. The seizer (Grahin) of the Sun and the Moon or seizing that which is 
blooming or flowering (Puspavad). 


His tendency is opposite to the flowering one. He is like a 
whirlpool or vortex which crushes or squeezes everything falling into it 
so that it becomes finer and finer. This refining process is what allows us 
to directly experience the subtle levels of creation and the Supreme Self. 


3 Weta 4A: 


om varahastaya namah 


24. One hand (Hasta) grants blessings (Vara), 


This name promises us that his role is not just damaging. If we 
give him our respect, he can grant anything we desire. 


$0 TATSUYA: 


om gadapanaye namah 


25. Having a mace (Gad@) in the hand (Pani). 


Like many deities, Ketu is holding weapons symbolizing his role. 
The Gada is a special type of mace. It was a very heavy weapon and 
symbolized exceptiona! strength. Mars (74) also carries a Gada and Ketu 
is said to be like Mars. The Gada is associated with the Southern direction, 
ruled by Lord Yama and associated with Mars. Both get directional 
strength in the South and both have a special connection to the 
awakening of higher consciousness. 


432 Yoga of the Planets 


qo Paar aa: 


om citravastradharaya namah 


26. Wearing (Dhara) beautiful and surprising clothes (Chitra Vastra). 


Chitra is a picture but it also suggests something that catches the 
eye. Anything dazzling, that has a ‘wow’ factor like movie special effects 
and outrageous fashions, exotic jewelry, etc., is signified by Ketu. Life 
would be very dull without him. 


Go FIRAATATSTTA AA: 


om citradhvajapatékaya namah 


27. His emblem (Pataka) is a dazzling flag (Chitra Dhvaja). 


Ketu catches the eye in whatever way the position in the chart 
suggests. | have found that it is Ketu that is the key Graha in the chart of 
the British monarchy. This is natural as Ketu is the lord of Magha 
Nakshatra in Leo whose symbol is a throne. 


Jo ORT Aa: 


om ghoraya namah 


28. The terrible. 


Ghora is frightful and violent but it can also mean venerable, 
awful and sublime. It all depends on our inner orientation. Ketu is an 
irresistible force drawing us towards the subtle. That is sublime but 
frightening for the gross aspects of our awareness. Attempts to resist it 
can disturb the balance of the mind. 


Psychics have a gift that Ketu has given them. | have met several 
psychics with health issues and who had a distortion in their aura related 
to the third eye. This suggests that their work is undermining their 
health, If one’s work has a psychic component, one should take great care. 


So FAT Aa: 


om citrarathaya namah 


Ketu, the South Noda 433 


29, Having an eye-catching (Chitra) chariot or vehicle (Ratha). 


Everything about him is a wonder, while he remains invisible, 
just like the black hole in the photo above (Ketu 1). 


% Riad aA: 
om sikhine namah 


30. One who has reached the height of knowledge and enlightenment. 


Jupiter represents Gurus, but Ketu indicates those who have 
reached the highest pinnacle. The combination of Jupiter and Ketu 
indicates the Parampara or tradition of wisdom, the succession of 
masters (Jaimini Upadesha Sutras 1.2.115). 


Shikhin also means a peacock reminding us again of the dazzling 
beauty and allure of the inner awakened state. It is said that the word 
Rashi (sign) comes from Rahu and Shikhi because the primal axis of Rahu 
and Ketu from zero Aries to zero Libra defines the zodiac. 


Fo PAA FA: 


om kulutthabhaksakaya namah 


31. Enjoying (Bhaksaka) horse-gram (Kuluttha), a kind of grain. 


This is what is used in Ketu’s Pija. Horse-gram comes in red, 
brown and black colours. It is never one dull colour. 


do FSaRTOT AA: 
om vaidtryabharanaya namah 


32. Whose ornament (Abharana) is the Vaidurya gem. 


This indicates the gem to be worn as a remedy for Ketu. 
Generally this is thought of as Cat's Eye, which has a mystic ‘eye’ (Ketu 9). 
However, many experts consider Vaidirya to be lapis lazuli. Lapis is said 
to be best used by putting a few tiles of it on a wall in one’s home. 


434 Yoga of the Planets 


% SAKA AA: 


om utpatajanakaya namah 


33. Causing (Janaka) ill omens. 


Utpata is a startling event like an earthquake or a meteor boding 
calamity. Even though it is often used for ill omens, it means a portent in 
general or something that flys or jumps up. If Ketu is strongly influencing, 
there is a tendency in the person to move upwards. The person may 
become a pilot, a mountaineer or live in a penthouse. Ketu rules the 
upward directions while the other nine Grahas rule the eight directions 
on a plane. 


In one way or another it expresses itself and the highest 
expression is in the person whose Kundalini has risen. Ketu can make us 
meditate and, with time, the meditation leads to those elevated 
experiences described in the Yoga Sutras and other texts. 


Another meaning is a prodigy such as someone with 
extraordinary mathematics ability. It can also mean any extraordinary 
phenomenon. 


3 YA Fa: 


om Sukramitraya namah 


34. The friend (Mitra) of Shukra, Venus. 


Being a demon, Venus is his Guru but it is especially mentioned 
here that they are friendly. The main Jyotisha texts do not specify the 
relationships between the seven visible Grahas and Rahu and Ketu. This 
text gives us some help with this enabling more precision in 
interpretation and prediction. This tells us that Ketu will be stronger in 
the signs of Venus and perhaps less damaging to Venus when they are 
conjoined. Venus Ketu conjunctions can sometimes indicate atypical 
gender relationships. It can give subtle vision such as the ability to see 
auras. 


So Wea FH: 


om mandasakhaya namah 


35. The friend (Sakha) of Saturn. 


Ketu, the South Node 435 


Manda means the slow one, indicating Saturn. Rahu and Ketu 
have the same friends: Venus and Saturn. Rahu and Ketu can represent 
people who are in some way discarded or rejected by society. it is Venus 
and Saturn who try to help them. 


Saturn represents democracy and Venus can cause a social 
conscience especially through Libra. The Sun, Moon, Mars and Jupiter as a 
group are more concerned with the status quo, which sets up the classic 
political parties, the Democrat/Socialist versus the Royalist/ 
Conservative. Of course, being conservative is natural to all so the fight is 
over what is to be conserved. 


3 TANT AA: 


om gadadharaya namah 


36. Holding (Adhara) a mace (Gada). 


The repetition reminds us of his exceptional strength and power 
to take us beyond death (see also Ketu 25). 


3 AEA AA: 


om nakapataye namah 


37. The Lord (Pati) of the sky. 


Naka is the firmament or sky and this title would normally go to 
the Sun or the Moon depending on it being day or night. As Ketu can 
eclipse either of them, he becomes the ruler. Naka means literally, ‘where 
there is no pain’. This could point to the state of Moksha or enlightenment 
that is beyond the pairs of opposites such as heat and cold, which cause 
pain. Ketu is the significator for Moksha. 


do Adaya AA: 


om antarvedtsvaraya namah 


38. Theruler (/shvara) over internal knowledge (Antar Vedi). 


436 Yoga of the Planets 


This name confirms the last (37) and tells us that, having taken 
us beyond duality, Ketu can give us any extent of knowledge of that state 
and all subtle things. 


do SPARES A: 
om-jaimimigotrayaya namah 


39. Born (fa) in the family (Gotra) of jaimini Rishi. 


He is a descendant of the lineage or tribe founded by the great 
seer Jaimini who is credited with many key contributions to the Vedic 
wisdom including an important work on astrology called the Maharishi 
faimini Upadesha Sutras. These Sutras or aphorisms are written in a very 
succinct and highly coded form leading to much debate about their 
meaning. They explain and develop certain aspects of the teachings of 
Maharishi Parashara in his great work Brihat Pardshara Hora Shastra. 
Both works are available in English in several translations. While 
Jaimini’s work is a part of the same body of knowledge, Vedic astrologers 
often speak of Jaimini astrology as a separate system from Parashara's, In 
my opinion, this is a misunderstanding. 


Jaimini was the disciple of the great sage VedaVyasa, who was 
the son of Maharishi Parashara, Upadesha means that the teaching is that 
of one’s Guru, not one’s own, Therefore, Jaimini was expounding the 
essence of the teaching as it came directly from Pardshara’s line. In the 
Upadesha Sutras, he makes it clear that this is the teaching of a lineage 
and that one can only fully understand this teaching by studying under a 
member of the lineage. The jaimini Scholar program?'is the teaching of 
such an ancient lineage that has maintained many of the oral instructions 
that allow us to understand the text. I followed this program under my 
Guru, Pandit Sanjay Rath from Puri in Eastern India. Some people think 
that by reading the Sutras and their translations, they can understand 
their import. From my experience, | can say that there is absolutely no 
chance that anyone could arrive at the teachings I received in this way. 
however smart they might be. 


This is all typical Ketu. He is the great secret keeper, the expert in 
ciphers and the key to every lineage due to his pure devotion to the 
wisdom and the Guru. 


4) JaiminiScholarorg 


Ketu, the South Node 437 


. & bat 
38 TAATalcde Aa: 
om citraguptatmane namah 


40. He is the soul (Atman) of Chitragupta. 


Chitragupta is the record keeper for Yama, the god of death and 
dharma, the lord of karma - the consequences of our action. It is said that 
Yama told Lord Brahma, the Creator, that he alone could not track all the 
deeds of all beings. Brahma meditated on this problem for 11,000 years 
and when he opened his eyes a man stood before him with a pen and 
paper. Brahma said, “As you have been conceived in my mind (Chitra is 
an image) in secret (Gupta), you will be called Chitragupta.” People who 
have come near death say that at that time one relives the images of one’s 
entire life in a matter of moments. 


Ketu is the one with access to what many call the Akashic record. 
Ketu can give us a way of knowing all the subtle things. Chitragupta is the 
Pratyadhidevata of Ketu, which means that he is worshipped along with 
Ketu and can cause Ketu to be more mild in his expression. 


do aa AA: 


om daksindmukhaya namah 


41. Facing (Mukha) South (Daksind). 


This is the direction the statue faces when placed for worship. 
South is the direction of Yama (see Ketu 25 and 40) and thus of death. 
Ketu faces South to overcome death and give us immortality, not of the 
ego but of the Self. 


Ho WPCA Aa: 


om mukundavarapatraya namah 


42. The container (Patra) of the Grace of the Lord (Mukunda Vara). 


This name also appears under Rahu (56) where it is explained in 
more detail. Since Rahu and Ketu are two parts of the same body, split by 
the discus of Lord Vishnu, they both have received His Grace (see also 
Rahu 4). Association with them can give us touches of that Divinity. This 
includes high moments of inner awareness. There is a flavour of that in 


438 Yoga of the Planets 


the experience when we reach the summit of a great mountain, view the 
world from a high altitude or have other ‘breathtaking’ visions. If we look 
at the books and movies that are most successful, we see Rahu and Ketu 
fully activated. Rahu provides the dark and violent aspects while Ketu 
includes wizards and special powers like flying. 


The great saint Tapasviji Maharaj was staying in a small hut. His 
attendant kept the hut locked from the outside and came once a day to 
give the master his meal. Once he opened the door to find three visitors 
discussing with the master. Seeing the attendant, they explained that they 
had been passing overhead when they saw that a great sage was 
meditating and so they had ‘dropped in’ to pay their respects. This story 
is from the outstanding book Maharaj, reprinted as Tapasviji, Saint who 
Lived for 185 Years. 


3 HElGRPONRAA AA: 


om mahasurakulodbhavaya namah 


43, Born (Udbhava) into the family (Kula) of a great demon or demonness 
(Mahdasura). 


This name makes it clear that he is not of purely divine birth 
even though subsequently blessed. This gives us hope because most of us 
believe we are not divine but we would like to touch or even become one 
with that Divinity. 


go Gaauira aa: 


om ghanavarnaya namah 


44, Intensely coloured (Ghana Varna). 


Also, of intense appearance or form or belonging to a caste or 
social group whose quality is extreme in some way. This is how Ketu can 
indicate fundamentalists and even terrorists. Terrorists are usually 
peop!e with fundamental views of one kind or another, often religious. It 
is an expression of headlessness that has taken a destructive turn. When 
Ketu falls in the ninth house, the house of religion, it is more likely to 
indicate such extremism. Of course, other factors may render this 
harmless. 


Another meaning would be ‘one of great renown’. Ketu does hide 
the outer but it can also give fame or make us infamous depending on the 


Ketu, the South Node 439 


kind of phenomenon he inspires us to display in the world. It can also 
mean capable of intense or powerful speech. 


So radar AH: 


om lambadevaya namah 


45, Vast (Lamba) divinity (Deva). 


Lord Ganesha and Ketu are that vastness, the Supreme Being 
itself. Ganesha is called Lambodara, the god with the large belly. The big 
belly of Ganesha is symbolic of that vast Being into which everything is 
being absorbed. This name tells us that Ketu, as the Graha of the highest 
truth, is to be associated with Ganesha. If we feel that progress is being 
blocked by Ketu, worship Lord Ganesha. The best way to worship 
Ganesha is to rest our attention on that vastness of consciousness. Until 
we know that vastness, we can keep repeating our chosen mantra, even 
this one. 


$ AQAA aa: 


om mrtyuputraya namah 


46. The child (Putra) of death (Mrtyu). 


Death and liberation are intimately associated. Death is a form of 
liberation because the burden of the body, with all its suffering, falls 
away. Liberation is a kind of death because the sense of tiny individuality 
is transcended. Most of those who have experienced dying found it a 
wonderful expansion into light and peace. However, merely dying is not 
liberation and liberation is the end of death. in fact, seeing death is a 
strong incentive to seek liberation. In this sense, liberation indicated by 
Ketu is the child of death. 


Ketu is worshipped to promote family life because of the saying 
‘Ketuh kulasyonnatim’ in the Navagrahadevatad Prarthana hymn. This 
means ‘Ketu (please) increase or advance the family.’ This is the prayer 
because Ketu in the fifth house of children, unless associated with 
benefics, usually prevents children being born. 


440 Yoga of the Planets 


So FAAS TIRG aa: 


om utpatartipadharine namah 


47. Having (Dharin) portents (Utpdata) as his form (Rupa). 


We can infer Ketu's presence from frightening omens that 
appear, while Rahu is known by the feeling of fear. Whether something 
causes fear is really just about our reaction to it. The phenomenon itself is 
just a phenomenon. Ketu represents things that come by surprise. These 
may be shocking or they may be welcome or appreciated later as good 
luck To be really free, we have to overcome the attachment to the 
survival of the small self. When we get to face this, fear is inevitable. Fear 
is the guardian of the door to the highest heaven. From that point of view, 
fear arising is a good omen as long as we do not let it tell us what to do. 


30 HCQaA AH: 
om adrsyaya namah 


48. Invisible (Adrshya) . 


As a node of the Moon, we cannot sec him. Ketu and Rahu’'s 
position can only be inferred from the orbit of the Moon through 
mathematics. Ketu, along with Mars rules mathematics and abstract 
intelligence. 


% elas aa: 
om kalagnisannibhaya namah 


49. Resembling (Sannibha) the fire at the end of the world (Kalagni). 


Ketu is one of the fire planets along with the Sun and Mars. Here, 
we are told that his fire is the most intense. If a chart is strongly 
influenced by both Mars and Ketu, then these are people who will not 
stop, they keep on and on. This can be very good or very bad depending 
on how it manifests. 


do qubera AR: 


om nrpidaya namah 


Ketu, the South Node 441 


50. Injuring (Pida) mankind (Nr). 


The injury can be in terms of imposing a limit or restriction as 
well as suffering, annoyance or actual harm. We harm ourselves by 
forcibly resisting the restriction we feel. Ketu asks us to become more and 
more subtle in dealing with his challenges. This is the path to eventual 
mastery of everything. First, one must master oneself. Then one injures 
neither oneself nor others. 


» Jena a: 


om grhakarine namah 


51. Causing (Karin) householder life (Grha). 


Despite Ketu representing Moksha or liberation, during the cycle 
of Ketu or under its influence one is more likely to follow a worldly life. 
The name could also mean, the creator of the signs of the zodiac. It is said 
that the zodiac is marked by the position of Rahu and Ketu at the 
beginning of the solar system, Ketu being at zero degrees Libra conjunct 
the brightest star near the zodiac, Spica. This star is used by most Vedic 
astrologers as the determining factor for the difference between the 
tropical zodiac, based on the Vernal Equinox point, and the sidereal 
zodiac, which is fixed with respect to the stars. Spica is used to fix the 
midpoint of the sidereal zodiac. 


de aaa AA: 


om sarvopadravavarakaya namah 


52. The seat of pain (Varaka} from all (Sarva) grievous calamities. 


Upadrava includes misfortunes which suddenly arise, national 
disasters and worse. Ketu indicates sudden, unexpected events. There is a 
state of consciousness that can be with all this pain without any sense of 
suffering. I slipped into it once. It was an indescribable blessing 


do Rad aa: 


om citraprasiitaya namah 


53. Born (Prasata) in Chitra Nakshatra. 


442 Yoga of the Planets 


Chitra Nakshatra is essentially opposite Ashwini where Rahu is 
said to be born (see Ketu 8 and Rahu 44). Chitra is a dazzling display and 
Prastta can mean the primordial essence (Chitra is the feminine form of 
Chitra). This is illustrative of the subtlest experiences close to pure 
Oneness. 


36 AAS AA: 


om analaya namah 


54. The god of fire, Agni or Anala. 


Maharishi Parashara teaches that Ketu is like Mars. This name 
confirms its fiery tendency. This name refers to al} fires, such as the 
digestive power, and the Nakshatra of Agni, Krittika, the third Nakshatra. 
[tis also the number three and the 50" year in the ancient 60 year Jupiter 
cycle. Krittika is distinguished by being where the Moon is exalted and is 
deeply associated with Moksha, which Ketu signifies. The association 
with Krittika gives us the clue that we can also worship Subrahmanya, the 
other son of Lord Shiva who was fostered in Krittika (see also Mars 18). 


So Gaetan aA: 


om sarvavyadhivinasakaya namah 


55, Completely destroying (Vindshaka) all diseases (Sarva Vyddhi) or 
removing all tormenting people and things. 


Like Ganesha, who rules over obstacles and their removal, Ketu 
can bring disaster and also save us from it. It all depends on our attitude. 
The primary Vedic remedy involves making offerings into the sacred fire. 
Agni then mediates for us with the divine powers determining our 
destiny. Ketu'’s association with Agni makes him capable of helping us in 
grave difficulties. 


to ATTAIN A: 
om apasavyapracarine namah 


56. Moving (Prachdrin) with a retrograde motion (Apasavya). 


Ketu, the South Node 443 


The actual motion of the Moon’s nodes is occasionally direct even 
though the mean motion is retrograde. Traditionally in India, they use the 
mean positions, which are always retrograde. [ have found that works 
very accurately, better than the true positions. This name can be cited as 
a reason for using the mean node. 


do AqH Were Aa: 


om navame papadayakaya namah 


57. In the ninth (Navama) house, Ketu causes (Dadyaka) us to commit or 
experience Papa. 


Papa is normally translated as sin but | feel this is too negative. 
The ninth primarily refers to the ninth house in the Vedic chart. The ninth 
is the place of our merit based on the kindness and goodness that we 
bring into this life from the past. Ketu in the ninth may cause unexpected 
turns in our luck. On occasions, this may prove very fortunate. Any 
negative effect can be ameliorated or reversed by factors such as the 
influence of Jupiter. 


If Ketu’s intensity has the right direction, it can even produce 
something extraordinary. Amir Khan, the great boxer, has this giving him 
power and persistence. This placement can give a royal destiny. For 
example, in the charts of King Edward VIII, Krishna Raja Wadiyar IV, King 
of Mysore for 46 years, and the Duchess of Cambridge. This is the first of 
several names (58, 62-64, 72-74) that suggest the difficulties associated 
with certain placements of Ketu. Rather than simply repeating these 
mantras, hold them in the heart and see what they have to reveal as 
impulses of divinity. 


$ Fad analy Aa: 
om paficame Sokadaya namah 


58. In the fifth house (Paficama), Ketu brings (Da) grief (Shoka). 


The resistance towards having children that J have found in some 
people with this placement suggests some deep seated fear in this area. 
However, it need not deny children or forebode sorrow. It depends on the 
association with other Grahas. Shoka also means heat or glow. 


444 Yoga of the Planets 


do SUPRA AA: 


om uparagakhecaraya namah 


59. The eclipse point (Upardga) moving through the zodiac (Khechara). 


This tells us how clearly the astronomical principles were 
understood. It also indicates that momentous events can be triggered by 
the transit of Ketu both for the individual and society. 


7 cs 
Ho SAGSIRHG FA: 
om atiptrusakarmane namah 


60. Making (Karmana) a person profound. 


Atipdrusa means a first-rate person. It could mean being 
extraordinary in some way including being highly intuitive. During Ketu’s 
Dasha many extraordinary things may happen, opportunities present 
themselves and we may spend a lot of time following them. This can be 
wearing, so we should be careful of our health. If we get too active, we 
may also miss the inner opportunities. The most important time is during 
the Ketu Rahu Dasha, when the inner gates of consciousness can open 
and, like Rahu Ketu Dasha, this time of change can provide a turning point 
in our life. 


do Gea Gara aA: 


om turiye sukhapradaya namah 


61. In the fourth house (Turiya), Ketu brings (Prada) happiness (Sukha). 


This name may come as a big surprise to many, The fourth house 
is the house of happiness, and we might expect Ketu there to disturb it. 
The word Turiya means fourth and also indicates the fourth state of 
consciousness, pure Being. This is a state of pure bliss and we have seen 
that Ketu is especially associated with it. If we have Ketu in the fourth and 
we are not happy, we should look into taking up meditation. The bliss is 
available, if we can open to it. This could also apply to Ketu in Cancer and 
conjunct the Moon. 


Ketu, the South Node 445 


fo qd atera aA: 


om trtiye vairadaya namah 


62. In the third house (7rtiya), he causes (Da) enmity (Vaira). 


The third is the place of siblings, supporters and servants. In the 
Western system, servants are seen in the sixth. In Vedic Astrology, the 
sixth is the place of grief from servants but those who help you are 
primarily shown by the third while the sixth house shows our service. 
Acting as an obstacle, Ketu causes enmity with or from such people. This 
can occur because Ketu also indicates secret enemies and secret dealings. 


On the other hand, this might cause us to see Ketu type people as 
our brothers and sisters and get help from them. Ketu rules spiritual 
people, mountaineers, dancers, spies and other faceless people. 


3 Quel AA: 


om papagrahaya namah 


63. Causing unconventional acts. 


The literal meaning of Papagraha is ‘A sinful Graha’ but Ketu is 
not intrinsically sinful. The place it stands in the chart can be marked by 
unconventional acts which might in some case prove unfortunate or 
inappropriate. This is what gives rise to the enmity. However, if Ketu is 
well influenced, this may not happen. There can be genius in what occurs. 


So Glee AA: 


om sphotakakarakaya namah 


64. Indicating (Karaka) boils or tumours (Sphotaka). 


As a fiery Graha it can cause boils and as a marker of grievous 
woes, Ketu as well as Rahu can mark the seat of cancer. Wherever they sit 
should be a place to which we give great gentleness. As far as | am aware, 
each kind of cancer comes from overstressing some part of the body. For 
example, statistics show that drinking excessive amounts of coffee is 
associated with throat cancer. Thus, if we have Ketu associated with the 
second house, which relates to the face, mouth, throat and eating, we 
should pay attention to our diet. 


446 Yoga of the Planets 


6 WAITS AA: 


om prananathaya namah 


65. The lord (Ndtha) of life. 


Prana is the life breath and is related to longevity. Ketu is the end 
of things and thus is the ultimate lord of life. An implication of this name 
is that liberation is born of mastery of the breath. Mastery involves 
attention. In a lecture I] attended, the great modern-day Guru Ammachi 
said “Do not miss a single breath”. If one can realize this teaching, one will 
become Prdnandatha. 


do TRY SARA AH: 
om paficame sramakarakaya namah 


66. In the fifth house (Paficama), he indicates (Karaka) the performance 
of spiritual austerities (Shrama). 


Since the fifth house is associated with spiritual practices, this is 
taken as the primary meaning. Shrama can also mean exhaustion. 
Spiritual practices are to exhaust the ignorance that prevents liberation. 
In ancient times, people would undertake many difficult and painful 
penances such as standing on one leg for years. These days people still do 
penances. Meditation and other Yogic practices are forms of penance. 
This name can also mean that one has a tendency to hard work. 


3 facta Reaver aa: 
om dvitiye sphutavagdatre namah 


67. In the house of speech (Dwitiya), the second, Ketu gives (Datr) distinct 
speech (Sphutavag). 


Ketu in the second house can indicate a special ability when 
speaking or a strange or unusual way of speaking. In any case, it can be 
powerful and insightful due to Ketu’s ability to penetrate into the depth of 
anything. 


Ketu, the South Node 447 


Ho faerplscdaway aH: 


om visakulitavaktrakaya namah 


68. His speech nullifies the poison (of ignorance). 


This is the highest meaning. Jt can also mean that he starts 
poisonous confusion. Visha is poison, Akulita bewildered, perplexed, to 
make muddy and Vaktraka is the mouth or the organ of speech as well as 
the commencement of something. Either the speech of the person could 
be confused or perhaps they could say things that confuse others. Ketu 
rules over people who operate in secrecy like spies. They sometimes pet 
the job of causing poisonous confusion in the enemy camp. Ketu can 
indicate great lies and great truth. One has to see what the influences are 
on it are as well as the general tendencies of the person. 


do HAST) Aa: 


om kamartpine namah 


69. In the form of the cupid (Kama Rupin), the energy of desire. 


In one text it says that during the Ketu Dasha, a seven year cycle, 
the person will travel around having intimate relations with beautiful 
women. Ketu may cause the Kundalini Shakti, our most subtle energy 
source to awaken to some extent and the first effect of this is to put more 
pressure on the second Chakra. At the same time, it creates some kind of 
charisma that may attract the opposite gender. 


30 Aaa AA: 


om simhadantaya namah 


70. Having lion-like teeth (Simha Danta). 


This gives the hint that Ketu has exceptional strength in Leo. 


do Sapayara aa: 


om kusedhmapriyaya namah 


71. Fond (Priya) of Kusha grass offerings (/dhma) in the sacrificial fire. 


448 Yoga of the Planets 


The word Kusha implies sharpness of awareness. This clarity is 
what makes the sacrificial process effective. Sacrifice is just a metaphor 
for al] worthy acts. 


do Aga AGAR AA: 


om caturthe matrnasaya namah 


72. In the fourth house (Chaturtha), he is harmful (Né@sha) for the mother 
(Matr). 


Unless nullified by other factors, one may lose one’s mother early 
or she may have to suffer. The suffering may be due to the absence of the 
child. This position of Ketu may take us away from home. Previously it 
was Said that Ketu in the fourth house brings happiness. This illustrates 
the importance of looking at the words used or there might appear to be a 
conflict. This name refers to the more mundane level of experience while 
the previous pointed to the fruit of higher consciousness. The fourth 
house is a Moksha (liberation) house and the word Turiya used above 
points at that. By implication, Ketu in any Moksha house, the fourth, 
eighth or twelfth can ultimately lead to the bliss of liberation. Astrologers 
should also look at the position of Ketu in the fourth divisional chart and 
apply these clues. 


. a 
30 ATH Mderala AH: 
om navame pitrnasakaya namah 


73. In the ninth (Navama), he is harmful (Nashaka) to the father (Pitr). 


This can be compensated by positive factors in the chart. If not, 
the father may suffer or the paternal heritage may be abandoned. For 
example, those with visionary or extremist views often break from the 
established religion and conventions of their forefathers. | have noticed 
that this placement of Ketu can make some people seers and cause some 
others to take uncompromising or extreme views. Both kinds of people 
can come into conflict with the religious and communal authorities as 
new visions or strong views are rarely welcomed. Several of these names 
suggest that wherever Ketu falls, the persons indicated by that house can 
suffer or they may be very spiritual or unusual. Spirituality is a process of 
becoming more subtle and that is what is indicated, not any random 
suffering. One should not give way to fear. Ketu’s direction is always 
upward, which sometimes involves letting go of what we are used to. 


Ketu, the South Node 449 


Ae awa AM: 
om antye vairapradaya namah 


74. In the twelfth house or sign (Antya), Ketu can cause (Prada) heroism 
or enmity. 


Vaira has as its root ‘Vi’ to separate. This is the basis of hostility. 
It is also related to Vir, vitality and hence heroism. 


Ketu in the twelfth (Antya) indicates loss, which can be total loss 
if Ketu is exactly on the cusp or centre of the house. The cusp in Vedic 
Astrology is conceptually the same as the cusp in tropical astrology 
except that in Vedic it is treated as the centre of the house and in tropical 
astrology it is treated as the start. Total loss can mean enlightenment, or 
transcending the ego. In the outer world, it can mean falling out with 
partner, family or friends leading to losing much of one’s worldly things. 


| once met a man who had such a combination. He was from a 
very wealthy family and had extensive holdings. As soon as Ketu’s Dasha 
period started, his family rejected him and he was left wandering on the 
streets of London penniless. He then meta lady who saw him as the next 
great teacher of mankind and adopted him, so a new life began. He had 
the unusual habit of giving away all his money at the end of each year. 
Strangely, when he consulted me, his main concern was how to become 
wealthy. He lived in two countries so he did not have to pay tax to either 
of them. 


Ketu can produce heroic people both in the ninth and twelfth 
houses and signs. Heroism is needed to attain Moksha. 


H PdlaeahtarHla AA: 


om sutanandanidhanakaya namah 


75. Indicating the preservation (Nidh@naka) of the joy of children (Suta 
Ananda), 


Since Ketu can prevent this joy, he is also responsible for 
protecting it. This is a reason why he is said to promote the family. 
Therefore, worshipping the related Devata, Lord Ganesha, is especially 
helpful for gaining offspring as well as assuring their health and well- 
being. This mantra could also be helpful. 


450 Yoga of the Planets 


do AIA AA: 


om sarpaksijataya namah 


76. Born (/ata) from the eye of a snake (Sarpa Aksi). 


While this name could mean born in the race of snakes - Rahu 
and Ketu are considered the head and tail of a snake - this also points ta 
the third eye awakened by the serpent power of Kundalini. Ketu, as divine 
intuition, comes from there, the eye on the forehead of the serpent power. 
The Vedic literature speaks of a semi-divine class of serpents, the Nagas, 
who live under the earth and whose world is illuminated by the jewels on 
their foreheads. They have special insight and are associated with the 
constellation Ashlesa at the end of Cancer. Those with a planet like the 
Moon there usually have some inner guidance or vision. The nature of 
this depends on which planet is placed there. If it is Mercury, then the 
special insights come through the intellect and the speech. They may be 
brilliant writers. 


The jewel is obviously the open third eye associated with the 
activated pineal gland. What is born from the third eye is the highest 
insight. When Ketu is influential in a person’s chart then they usually 
have intuitive gifts. Their third eye may open. Influential primarily means 
associated with the first house, the Sun or the Moon. 


S FARM Aq: 
om anangaya namah 


77. Bodiless (Ananga). 


Since he is only an invisible point in the sky, he has no limbs and 
no body. This name applies to the cupid, the mind and the sky. It is the 
great power of Cosmic intelligence present everywhere, 


do PARRA AA: 


om karmarasyudbhavaya namah 


78. Rising up (Udbhava) in the tenth sign or house (Karma Rashi). 


The tenth is the place of Karma or action. It indicates our career. 
If Ketu is there, we have to be known for some unusual aspect or 
approach to our profession or some profession related to the upward 


Ketu, the South Node 451 


direction. It is common in the charts of airline staff like pilots and aircrew 
who have to move in the sky to fulfill their obligations. If Ketu falls in the 
tenth house or in Capricorn (the tenth sign), it can raise our career to 
great heights. 


: x ¢ 
$ Ted Silas a: 
om upante kirtidaya namah 


79. In the eleventh house, he gives (Da) fame (Kirti). Updnte is the one 
before the last. 


$ GAH POSIT AH: 
om saptame kalahapradaya namah 


80. In the seventh house (Saptama), he gives (Prada) conflict (Kalaha) or 
a higher path. 


Kalaha can mean deceit or falsehood as well as non-physical 
violence and abuse. Lord Ganesha should be worshipped to remedy this 
situation. On the positive side, Kalaha can mean a path or way. Ketu can 
give us a special kind of direction when placed in the seventh. That path is 
the path to higher consciousness because Ketu and the seventh house are 
both associated with the base of the spine and thus the activation of the 
Kundalini energy. 


The seventh is the place of marriage and partnership. Ketu tends 
to block this but at the same time indicates joining with a person or 
people who are Ketu-like. That can mean they are in the Ketu Dasha, their 
chart is strongly marked by Ketu and/or they are highly intuitive or gone 
over the fine line to be somewhat strange or crazy. Examples of a chart 
being marked by Ketu are that he is in the ascendant or with the Sun, 
Moon or AtmaKaraka (Sun 12). 


BEA ates aA: 
om astame vyadhikartre namah 


81. In the eighth house (Astana), he causes (Kartr) suffering (Vyadhi). 


452 Yoga of the Planets 


The eighth house is the place of our errors from the past for 
which we have to pay in this life. Ketu can indicate some kind of error. In 
India, especially Kerala, they would say that some abuse of snakes has 
taken place leaving a curse on us, so they would perform a Puja to the 
Nagas (the celestial serpents). While I was in India, | came across some 
examples of this. In one case, a colleague was called to a house because 
the daughter was not getting married. When they asked the reason, he 
heard in the distance the cry “snake, snake”. He immediately said that 
some snake had been killed in the house, that this was the problem and 
advised a Puja. The family was Christian so rejected this saying that it was 
not true. For a while, the astrologer insisted that it was true and the 
father insisted that it was not. Eventually, the wife admitted that such an 
incident had happened and things had been difficult since then. Finally 
they did the Puja, and the daughter subsequently got married. 


In the West, we will have difficulty accepting such an idea, We 
are uSually afraid uf snakes and do not have any special) regard for them. 
In India, however, snakes are traditionally associated with the practice of 
Yoga and are said to only bite the sinners. | stayed in an Ashram in 
Rishikesh of a famous saint and it is said that many years earlier, soon 
after the ashram was built, the saint and his friend, another local saint, 
were seen by devotees in a tent filled with cobras. Apparently, it was 
agreed that no snake would be harmed in the ashram and no human 
would be bitten by the snakes. Since then, no case of any snakebite 
occurred. 


} was in charge of a group of young Indians who came there for 
training and who were unaware of this tradition. One day [ came to the 
hall for the meeting and found that there had been a cobra in the entrance 
porch. The sweeper who had to clean the porch had picked up the cobra 
and swept under it and then put it down (it is true). However, when the 
students came they killed it. | was very upset and gave them strong 
advice against such behaviour. The next day, when | came there, there 
was a small cobra on the steps leading up to where | sat. We suspected 
they had a nest under the stage. I called the staff and the snake was gently 
removed. 


I myself have seen cases where large snakes have appeared 
apparently to give their Darshan (or visual blessing) when some act of 
sanctity has occurred. We humans used to have a deep connection with 
the animal and vegetable kingdom; many still do. We slaughter hundreds 
of thousands of dolphins every year, yet we hear no cases of retaliation, 
rather there are many cases of people being saved from sharks by 
dolphins. There is a group of divers who dive off Durban, South Africa, in 
the place where the sharks congregate. They are often swimming with 


Ketu, the South Node 453 


hundreds of sharks. They have a policy of taking nothing at all from the 
ocean and they have never been bothered by the sharks. Those who go 
spear fishing, however, are attacked from time to time. 


The destruction of the eco-system by our greed and carelessness 
cannot go forever without consequence. As James Lovelock, who 
developed the Gaia theory, said, Nature will eventually act to restore 
balance?4, In the Bible and other scriptures we see that if many sin and a 
few in that population are holy, then the place wil! be spared. Everywhere 
I go I find a sprinkling of truly holy people; | believe that this, alone, has 
saved us so far. We should consider that there may come a time when 
God tells his own to leave that place and not Iaok back! 


I feel especially grieved by the wanton destruction of the oceans. 
Some think they are so large that they cannot be destroyed by human 
exploitation but research shows 80% of the fish and mammals in the 
ocean have already been taken. Scientists have found that when the 
population of a fish species is about to collapse, they tend to congregate 
together. When the government, on scientific advice, wants to impose 
quotas, the fishermen say that the catches are good and there is no 
shortage. When the fish group together, they are easy for us to find with 
our all-powerful technology. It looks like there are plenty of fish and then 
suddenly there are none. 


Our addictions to certain foods and food additives make us need 
a massive supply of cheap beef. This is being supplied by non-sustainable 
agriculture based on cutting down the rainforests as well as vast feedlots 
that are causing terrible pollution problems. It is fortunate that there is a 
growing number of farmers who care for their animals and land and 
produce food responsibly, almost always organically. Two farms in the 
UK with similar numbers of cattle were compared. The organic one had a 
vet bill of about $1,000/year. The other spent around $100,000 /year. 


There is plenty of literature on all this so it is not necessary to 
repeat it but if we, as a species, want to survive with a little of our 
civilization intact, we had better wake up and wake up fast. Politicians fail 
because they are controlled by certain vested interests who are taking a 
very short-term view. We all have to take responsibility for our collective 
destiny. 


2 Lovelack, | (2009), The | washing Face of Gata. 


454 Yoga of the Planets 


$ Tel TETAS A: 


om dhane bahusukhapradaya namah 


82. In the second house (Dhana), he gives many forms of happiness (Bahu 
Sukha). 


When | mentioned this name to leading Jyotishis in India they 
objected but I have seen that it is true. It applies in my chart and |] just 
passed through the major cycle of Ketu. Objectors may say that there is 
strong benefic influence on Ketu in my chart and | accept that. However, 
the meaning of the name is clear. Since the word Dhana is used, in the 
locative, meaning in the house of wealth, this position can give monetary 
benefits. 


$0 Geel Ua AA: 
om janane rogadaya namah 


83. In the first house, he causes disease (Roga). 


Janana indicates coming into existence, which is the role of the 
first house. Ketu rules over the opposite process, the end of things, so it 
may give health issues especially in childhood, There may be some back 
pains that trouble from time to time. 


aa aA: 
om urdhvamirdhajaya namah 


84. The hair on his head (Mdrdhaja) is erect (Urdhva). 


This phenomenon occurs when the Kundalini Shakti rises. The 
hair bristles or stands erect. The name indicates this highly empowered 
spiritual condition, a state of ecstasy. 


30 Dedany 4A: 


om grahanayakaya namah 


85, The leader (Nayaka) amongst the Gruhas. 


Ketu, the South Node 455 


This means that no other Graha can overrule him. If he indicates 
a particular effect, other planets can influence but not totally prevent the 
outcome. In this way, he is like Ganesha who is always worshipped first, 
for without his help, no other worship can be successful. 


Alternatively, it means that he indicates leaders. | have observed 
this to be true. A strong Ketu makes someone very insightful and thus 
skillful in formulating policies. They may lead from behind or in-front 
depending on other factors. Ketu’s nature to be faceless coupled with this 
may be the archetypal fuel for the popular belief that society is being 
managed by people whose faces are never seen in the halls of 
government. 


4 WIGEEa FH: 
om papadrstaye namah 


86. His aspect (Drsta) brings trouble. 


Pape is sin, that is selfish heedless acts. Under the aspect of Ketu, 
we may lose our clarity of mind and make mistakes or even do wrong 
things. Ketu’s aspect makes us feel like we are being destroyed. This 
activates the most primal response of self-preservation. Virtually any act, 
even if normally considered wrong, becomes an option in this situation. 
However, if we bear with our crucifixion, we will rise again in glory 
without the stain of sin. 


Some great astrologers argue that as Ketu is headless, he cannot 
have aspects, no eyes equals no vision. Another reason is that planetary 
aspects are indicative of desire, while Ketu, as the Moksha Karaka, has no 
desire. He may excite desire but he himself has none. However, the signs 
have aspects and thus Ketu aspects all the signs aspected by its sign and 
thus also the planets in them. For example, if Ketu is in Aries, it aspects 
Leo, Scorpio and Aquarius and their planets. Being in the same sign also 
counts as an aspect. 


Ketu lost his head but, according to the Vedic stories, it was 
replaced by that of an elephant (as well as several other animal heads in 
different versions of the story). The elephant head immediately reminds 
us of Lord Ganesha who is already identified with Ketu. The truth is that 
whatever planet is most strongly influencing Ketu provides the head. If it 
is with a strong Jupiter (indicating the elephant), then there will be 
wisdom, not sin. 


456 Yoga of the Planets 


S GA FA: 


om khecaraya namah 


87. Moving (Chara) through the sky or firmament (Khe). 


Previously (Ketu 78), it was explained how Ketu can represent 
people who work in the skies, like aircrew. Khechari Mudra is a special 
Yogic exercise or state that is described as ‘the stance of moving or flying 
through the void of the supreme consciousness’ (Tartraloka, Muller- 
Ortega, p. 350). 


 BMNeaTyA 4A: 


om §ambhavaya namah 


88. Related to or devoted to Lord Shiva, Shambhu (Shambhava). 


This name identifies Ketu with the absolute power. It also occurs 
under Rahu (97) and indicates the one who is always awake, always kind, 
granting happiness and who brings all things eventually to rest or 
fulfilment. [t means Ketu arises from Him and is devoted to Him. Thus 
Ketu will protect other devotees. This mantra can be an excellent remedy 
for mental agitation. 


% satsg sas AA: 


om asesapijitaya namah 


89. Worshipped (Pujita) by everyone (Ashesa). 


This name can also mean that he is worshipped by those who are 
free from defect, perfectly clean in their consciousness. Real worship 
means continuously giving attention, and that occurs when the self 
identifies with the Self. Attention can only be continuous by the apparent 
two merging into One. This is the state he signifies and this is his worship. 


$0 WAS AA: 


om sasvataya namah 


90. Eternal (Shashvata). 


Ketu, the South Node 457 


This appears under Rahu (94) but the implication is different. 
While Rahu mainly represents the endless process of change, Ketu 
represents the eternity of non-change. They are the two sides of the 
cosmic coin. 


% ACTS AH: 


om nataya namah 


91. An actor, dancer or mime artist (Nata). 


Above we saw that Ketu can excite the energy of desire. This 
makes him a fascinating performer. 


$0 PUTS aH: 


om subhasubhaphalapradaya namah 


92. Giving (Prada) both auspicious (Shubha) and inauspicious (Ashubha) 
results (Phaila). 


This makes it difficult to predict the outcome of his Dasha. Befure 
] started Ketu Dasha, | travelled around India asking astrologers what 
would happen during this seven-year cycle. | got almost no answers. 
However, ! experienced many of the things indicated in these names 
including improved comforts and wealth and profound inner awakening 
as well as intensity, wearing down of the body and a lot of pressure. 


$0 PaTa aH: 


om dhimraya namah 


93. Smoky coloured. 


Dhémra can mean smoke coloured, grey, dark red, purple, dark 
or smoky. Under his influence, we can gain absolute inner clarity but 
often our ordinary vision is clouded. Dhimra can refer to hidden things, 
so Ketu can indicate acts done in secrecy. When Ketu influences our 
personality, we can become very private or just feel hidden. 


This is a little hint that Ketu is associated with the Goddess 
Dhumavati. 


458 Yoga of the Planets 


A stone for Ketu is smoky quartz. | have had very good 
experiences with it though that likely was enhanced by the blessings of 
the Brahmin who gave it to me. 


#o Fae aa: 


om sudhapayine namah 


94. Drinking (Payin) the nectar of immortality (Sudha). 


Those who know the ultimate reality attain immortality of 
consciousness that is never lost whatever happens to the body. While in 
the body, it is nourished by an inner nectar flow, the flow of Soma. 


So aifaara aa: 


om ajitaya namah 


95. Invincible (Ajita). 


There is no hope in fighting with him. The next name clearly tells 
us how to be with him. 


so AMICON AA: 
om bhaktavatsalaya namah 


96. Affectionate (Vatsa/a) for the devotees (Bhakta) like a cow for its calf. 


This makes clear that those who approach Ketu with respect and 
humbleness will obtain his grace and will not have to suffer from all the 
terrible things that have been mentioned. 


do Feeraara an: 


om simhasanaya namah 


97. Seated ona lion (Simha), 


This is the mark of royalty. The lion seat or throne (Simhdsana) 
indicates the power over life and death, At the finest level of creation is a 


Ketu, the South Node 459 


roar, which is likened to the roar of a lion. It is the primordial sound. That 
is the place where he sits and that is where the consciousness of the wise 
sits. 


om ketumitrtaye namah 


98. Whose form (Murti) is Ketu. This indicates to us that it is the Supreme 
Lord who takes this form to bless or punish the world. 


So Taiegealanaraa aa: 


om ravindudyutinasakaya namah 


99. Blotting out (Na@shaka) the light (Dyuti) of the Sun (Ravi) and the 
Moon (/nduw). 


Obviously, this refers to eclipses but we should also look at 
conjunctions between the luminaries and Ketu even when an actual 
eclipse is not taking place. The Sun with Ketu means the ego feels eclipsed 
but this conjunction can open the egoless state of consciousness. The 
Moon with Ketu can make life feel devoid of happiness but it can also give 
profound inner experiences. For example, mental experiences like 
visions. 


So SATS AH: 


om amaraya namah 


100. {mmortal. Divine. 


Amara is also the number 33 because there are said to be 33 
crores of gods (1 crore is 10 million). ‘Gods’ are the individual 
expressions of the laws of nature. 33 is 3 x 11. Three indicates the house 
of desire and 11 the house of fulfilment of the desire. On the level of the 
gods, there is almost no gap between a desire and its fulfilment. Ketu 
facilitates human awareness reaching that level and beyond. 


460 Yoga of the Planets 


40 Nea aA: 


om pidakaya namah 


101. An oppressor (Pidaka). 


His function is to crush everything down until it becomes so fine 
that it can fathom the truth. 


$ Bae aa: 
om amartyaya namah 


102. Undying (Amartya). Without death. 


That which remains after his crushing process is beyond the 
range of death. 


% fANeera TH: 


om visnudrstaya namah 


103. He received the Darshan (vision, Drsta) of the Lord (Visnu). 


This occurred when the demon tried to steal! the nectar and was 
decapitated creating Ketu and Rahu as explained elsewhere (Rahu 4). 


‘a5 on’ 
HH AACA AA: 
om asuresvaraya namah 


104. The ruler or chief (/shvara) of those not drinking the nectar. Asura is 
sometimes translated as demon(s). 


While Shukra (Venus) is Guru of the demons, he is the king. 
Asura, aS an archetype, means those who are fully identified with the 
body and do not know the infinite nature of the soul. Because they cannot 
resist him, he can be considered their lord. For those of us seeking to 
know the Self, he can help us if we give him the respect due to a king. 


Ketu, the South Node 461 


$0 WHATS AA: 


om bhaktaraksaya namah 


105. The protector (Raksa) af the devotees (Bhakta). 


This name also appears under Rahu and shows that the most 
terrific karmic forces in nature are still under the control of a pure heart. 
If we face our fears with simplicity and humility, then that power from 
which the fear emanates will protect us. 


The universe is a very violent place. Mankind can be wiped off 
this planet without any notice by some routine cosmic event like a 
supernova in our corner of the galaxy. Probably, there are many other 
events that could cause this. However, the ancient seers found that within 
their own human consciousness they could traverse the vastness of space 
and could even encompass it all. They knew that which could not die, 
which lies within every one of us. 


One of the greatest Vedic texts is the Yoga Vasistha (Parimal 
Publications, Delhi). This contains many statements that indicate the 
remarkable level of knowledge of the ancient Rishis. For example, 


‘There is no counting of the atoms proceeding from the spirit and 
forming the three worlds both before and after the birth of the glorious 
Sun’ 2.3.4 


Where else in human history do we find people talking about the 
universe before the creation of the Sun? 


‘There is nobody who can count the millions of orbs which at 
present form the three worlds.’ 2.3.5 


Note that the Ancient Greeks identified just over 1,000 stars. 


‘These orbs of light in the heaven, though they appear to be placed 
so near to us, are yet millions of leagues apart...’ ‘All bodies are formed by 
the combinations of atoms...’ 3.27.27, 29 


In the story of Queen Lila and the Goddess Saraswati, Saraswati 
takes Lila on a tour of outer space. Having gone very far, Lila comments, 


‘Oh, the great distance we have come to, whence the great 
luminary of the Sun also, appears as small as an atom below.’ 3.29.50 


The Goddess replies, 


‘This is the great pole of the universe, which is scattered over with 
innumerable nebular stars...’ 3.29.52 


462 Yoga of the Planets 


It should be noted that our great civilization has never obtained a 
photo from a sufficient distance from the Sun that it is just a dot. Viking’s 
last photo had the Earth as 0.12 of a pixel, but the Sun was still quite 
large. 


» 2X 

} aRaadeeaala FH: 

om vaicitryakapotasyandanaya namah 

106. Riding (Syandana) on a wonderfully coloured pigeon (Vaichitrya 
Kapata). 


The pigeon or dove is his vehicle and, naturally, it is remarkable 
in diverse ways. Pigeons were considered portentous by the ancients. 


% fara aa: 


om vicitraphaladayine namah 


107. Giving amazing and unexpected results (Vichitra Phala). 


Jo FEPTERSINTY AA: 


om bhaktabhistaphalapradaya namah 


108. Blessing the devotees (Bhakta) with the fulfilment (fruit, Phala) of 
their desires (Abhista). 


This is such a beautiful last name. One might expect that since 
Ketu is last and he seems so terrible that all would end in gloom. 
Fortunately, the ancients have left us with a great premise. If we live in 
goodness and purity to the best of our ability, nothing is beyond our 
reach, even the ultimate Truth, the ocean of bliss. 


aaa 


~ 


Om tat sat 


Surya, the Sun 463 


THE MANTRAS OF SURYA IN DEVANAGARI 


to ASNTY AA: 

H BAVATY AV: 

so HauNTAfAATa AA: 
fo TAAAAA Aa: 
Ho SWART A: 
8 anfecara aa: 

} Moira aa: 

* afsonmafea aa: 
3 ETA TH: 

10. 3 ahaa aH: 
11. 36 Sag AR: 

12. 34 34 a: 

13. 3 fasaeuTa aM: 
14. 3% 30g aA: 

15, 2% fend aA: 

16, 3 Wea AA: 


Sor OF NSN Se 


17. Pafeauafearaa aa: 


18. 3 aecslara aa: 
19. Rea: 

20. # qyaara an: 
21. » aahar an: 
22. 3% Gawd an: 
23, pagar a: 
24. » aaa aM: 

25. Pp ANAeaqa au: 
26. PIwIsls FA: 


RP JASWS AA: 

7 RAAT AA: 
feared aA: 
Jala AA: 
Cae aA: 

do RAGS AA: 

» da aa: 

oe fasta aa: 

A AR: 

% Teeafaaiaa aR 
Aq: 

maar aA: 

% WEA 7H: 

HD AIT AU AA: 
Be AATATA Aa: 
® Facaegqeara a: 
WHATS A: 
fo TaaSasya AA: 

He FATA AA: 
A SHUT a: 

% Beeraa 7A: 

H Weds AA: 

> alfedala aa: 

3% Tala AA: 

H PACHAP TN AG: 
Galaga aa: 


464 Yoga of the Planets 


52. 
53. 
54. 
55. 
56. 
57. 
58. 
59. 
60. 
61. 
62. 
63. 
64. 
65. 
66. 
67. 
68. 
69. 
70. 


B afraaseeaa aH: 
p BeaMearaelta) aH: 
yp aaa A: 

Ho AAAI AA: 

go Taha Aa: 

Wad Aa: 


P Gaur aa: 


% TOCA AA: 

a gftryd aa: 

Fed AA: 

H Fa aA: 

p Waa aH: 

% Waa aA: 

& aReang aA: 

Ho Ua aM: 

% waa HRaNs aA: 
3% AMAIA AA: 
D AAA AA: 
ard an: 

% Weleda AH: 


d wRAa ey afar 


a: 


H MATICAAN CRAG AA: 


wy WHI AA: 

do BUTTER AA: 
 MaTIQay Aq: 
FTTH TTR AA: 
t aca aa: 

do ator lRui aa: 


100. 
. &UgERers an: 
102. 
103. 
104. 
105. 
106. 
107. 
108. 


A AM AA: 

D SAN AA: 

to TA ANS aH: 

P HEAT AG: 
Ta aa: 

Hi BW Aa: 

D WHAIHa AR: 

A TOUT AA: 

Hh AWA AA: 

® WAT AA: 

# smfeqaradeara aa: 
qo Gieavera aA: 

H AHSA A TA AA: 
% Wala an: 

Faq AA: 

Se AAI AH: 

} WW AA: 

} ames aa: 

cy off fecwapara aa: 
% at AICRTT FA: 


Hf Qatar AG: 
so ota 7A: 

Jo 37 AH: 
 Awaatd aa: 
% Faqda aa: 
& faeararera Aa: 


SOHN DME WN DO 


Surya, The Sun 465 


THE MANTRAS OF SURYA IN 
TRANSLITERATION 


om arunaya namah 

om Saranyaya namah 

om karunarasasindhave namah 
om asamanabalaya namah) 
om 4rtaraksakaya namah 

om adityaya namah 

om adibhiitaya namah 

om akhilagamavedine namah 
om acyutaya namah 

om akhilajfiaya namah 

om anantaya namah 

om inaya namah 

om viSvariipaya namah 

om ijyaya namah 

om indraya namah 

om bhanave namah 

om indiramandiraptaya namah 
om vandaniyaya namah 

om isaya namah 

om suprasannaya namah 

om susilaya namah 

om suvarcase namah 

om vasupradaya namah 

om vasave namah 

om vasudevaya namah 

om ujjvalaya namah 

om ugraripaya namah 

om trdhvagaya namah 

om vivasvate namah 

om udyatkiranajalaya namah 
om hrstkesaya namah 

om Grjasvalaya namah 

om virdya namah 

om nirjaraya namah 

om jayaya namah 

om drudvayavinirmukta 
nijasarathaye namah 


om rsivandyaya namah 

om rughantre namah 

om rksacakracaraya namah 
om rjusvabhavavittaya namah 
om nityastutyaya namah 

om rkaramatrkavarnaripaya 
namah 

om ujivalatejase namah 

om rksadhinathamitraya namah 
om puskaraksaya namah 

om luptadantaya namah 

om Ssantaya namah 

om kantidaya namah 

om ghanaya namah 

om kanatkanakabhisanaya 
namah 

om khadyotaya namah 

om linitakhiladaityaya namah 
om satyanandasvariipine 
namah 

om apavargapradaya namah 
om 4rtaSaranyaya namah 

om ekakine namah 

om bhagavate namah 

om srstisthityantakarine narmah 
om gunatmane namah 

om ghrnibhrte namah 

om brhate namah 

om brahmane namah 

om aisvaryadaya namah 

om Sarvaya namah 

om haridagvaya namah 

om Sauraye namah 

om daSsadiksamprakasaya 
namah 

om bhaktavasyaya namah 

om ojaskaraya namah 


466 Yoga of the Planets 


70. 
71. 
72. 


MWe WN 


Oo PM D> 


om jayine namah 

om jagadanandahetave namah 
om janmamrtyujaravyadhi 
varjitaya namah 

om aunnatyapadasaficara 
rathasthaya namah 

om asuraraye namah 

om kamantyakaraya namah 
om abjavallabhaya namah 
om antarbahihprakasaya 
namah 

om acintyaya namah 

om atmariipine namah 

om acyutaya namah 

om amaresaya namah 

om parasmai jyotise namah 
om ahaskaraya namah 

om ravaye namah 

om haraye namah 

om paramatmane namah 
om tarunaya namah 

om varenyaya namah 

om grahanam pataye namah 


om bhaskaraya namah 
om adimadhy4ntarahitaya 
namah 

om saukhyapradaya namah 
om sakalajagatarh pataye 
namah 

om siryaya namah 

om kavaye namah 

om narayanaya namah 
om paresaya namah 

om tejorupaya namah 

om stim hiranyagarbhaya 
namah 


. om hrim sampatkaraya namah 
. om aim istarthadaya namah 

. OM am suprasannaya hamah 

. om Srimate namah 

. om Sreyase namah 

. om Saukhyadayine namah 

. om diptamiirtaye namah 

. om nikhilagamavedyaya 


namah 
om nityanandaya namal 


THE MANTRAS OF CHANDRA IN 
DEVANAGARI 


} ia aa: 
S WRT AA: 
Wena AG: 
Dp aRMiana aA: 
fra AA: 
d Baya aa: 
f Vana’ AA: 
D AAA AA: 


% angqgrana an: 


gh fadiaara a: 

% AAI Aa: 

ge SatfarnNadara AA: 
® fradaraa an: 

ge Steg aa: 

% dae aa: 

» fagaraaa a: 

o STRUTS AA: 

B SQ aH: 


% Gfera an: 
% Rrewressaa aa: 
Hp aenfatraa qa: 
R Aqeaqla FA: 
H PEASHOLH AA: 
Tq AA: 
BR THA AA: 
h TAR ay: 
% spiraraa AA: 
% SON AA: 
% raed 7A: 
So Rha TA: 
$0 Fae AA: 
RAGA AA: 
% AAT aH: 
$ faeaqEraran aa: 
% AAA AA: 
3 dag an: 
h eaqheaaraaa aa: 
S agen AA: 
Ba aT: 
% Qa AA: 
® afte aa: 
4 aRSAa Aa: 
Qa aa: 
% Wea aa: 
do WHAM SaaHTA AA: 
3 yfHaya aa: 
® Afra a: 
3 VATS AA: 


Chandra, The Moon 467 


wR AA: 
% WTA AA: 

R AIK AA: 

* APRA AH: 

3 Walrad AA: 

3 ARR TAT aq: 
EUESCEOOIC ESE CAGE taf 
ERO eC ARIC CMID Eth 
do REMAN AA: 
% Fada aA: 

3 fetrannra =A: 

>» fafaarra an: 

do fagraara Aa: 

eR RSID INE SSTIC CIM tn 
A YAN AA: 

3 Yaa AH: 
cs) GHoNaea AA: 

$ AAAAG FH: 

Fe angarezaya AH: 

co ana dA: 

30 aaa aA: 
Talley aa: 
 frasomaita an: 
go Faatqra aa: 

% fA AA: 

fo UANSTEIORT AA: 
Fo TARTS FA: 
% PMMA AA: 
fp avYqMa AA: 

ss] Uqua a: 


468 Yoga of the Planets 


79. 
80. 
81. 
82. 
83. 
84. 
85. 
86. 
87. 
88. 
89. 
90. 


H HeqyiSqarana aA: 


$ ATA RA AA: 
h MATA aA: 

2 aeqeaaara aa: 
aaa aa: 

} POONA A: 
D WHET AA: 

R ASS AR: 

$ AGOTGARS] AB: 
HH Aqua aA: 
feats an: 

d Pea HVS aaa 
Aa: 

# aqanfecs aa: 

> Heath aH: 

Me Tedd AG: 


94, 
95. 
96. 
97. 
98. 
99. 
100. 
101. 
102. 
103. 
104. 
105. 
106. 
107. 
108. 
109. 


> Femanaleong aa: 
S TEQUSSVARNA Aa: 
3 afar a: 

go Tenaga aa: 

3o Rar aa: 

} Gfaans aa: 

® fea aa: 

> faaqfrara aa: 

fo Mgravanaraa aa: 
3 JeaRyTa aH: 

Preven aA: 

30 Afreqeara Aa: 

$ PICMAAHAI A: 
4 GHOBARTG AA: 
d Varanayarg an: 


THE MANTRAS OF CHANDRA IN 
TRANSLITERATION 


om Srimate namah 

om Ssasadharaya namah 
om candraya namah 

om taradhigaya namah 
om nisakaraya namah 
om sudhanidhaye namah 
om sadaradhyaya namah 
om satpataye namah 

om sadhup@jitaya namah 


. om fitendriyaya namah 
. om jayodyogaya namah 
. om jyotiscakrapravartakaya 


namah 


. om vikartananujaya namah 
. om viraya namah 

. om visvesaya namah 

. om vidusampataye namah 
. om dosakaraya namah 

. om dustadtraya namah 

. om pustimate namah 

. om Sistapalakaya namah 

. om astamiirtipriyaya namah 
. Om anantaya namah 

. om kastadarukutharakaya 


namah 


24. om svaprakasaya namah 


. om prakasatmane namah 

. om dyucaraya namah 

. om devabhojandya namah 

. om kaladharaya namah 

. om kalahetave namah 

. om kamakrte namah 

. om kaémadayakaya namah 

. om mrtyusamharakdya namah 
. omamartydyanamah 

. om nityanusthanadayakaya 


namah 


. om ksapakaraya namah 
. om ksinapapaya namah 
. om ksayavrddhisamanvitaya 


namah 


. om jaivatrkaya namah 

. Om Sucaye namah 

. om Subhraya namah 

. 0m jayine namah 

. om jayaphalapradaya nainah 
. om sudhamayaya namah 

. 0m surasvamine namah 

. om bhaktanamistadayakaya 


namah 


. om bhuktidaya namah 

. om muktidaya namah 

. om bhadraya namah 

. om bhaktadaridryabhafijanaya 


namah 


. om sdmaganapriyaya namah 
. om sarvaraksakadya namah 

. om sargarodbhavaya namah 

. om bhayantakrte namah 

. om bhaktigamydya namah 

. om bhavabandhavimocakaya 


namah 


. om jagatprakasakiranaya 


namah 


. om jagadanandakdaranaya 


namah 


. om nihsapatnaya namah 
. om niraharaya namah 

. om nirvikaraya namah 

. om niramayaya namah 


Chandra, The Moon 469 


2. om bhiicchaya cchaditaya 


namah 


. om bhavyaya namah 
4. om bhuvanapratipalakaya 


namah 


. om sakalartiharaya namah 
. om saumyajanakaya namah 
. om sadhuvanditaya namah 
. om sarvagamajfiaya namah 
. OM Sarvajfiaya namah 

. om sanakadimunistutyaya 


namah 


. om sitacchatradhvajopetaya 


namah 


. om sitangaya namah 
. om sitabhiisanadya namah 
. om Svetamalyambaradharaya 


namah 


. om Svetagandhanulepanaya 


namah 


. om dasasvarathasamriidhaya 


namah 


. om dandapanaye namah 
. om dhanurdharaye namah 
. om kundapuspojjvalakaraya 


namah 


. om nayanabjasamudbhavaya 


namah 


. om 4treyagotrajaya namah 

. om atyantavinayaya namah 
. om priyadayakaya namah 

. om karunarasasampurmaya 


namah 


. om karkataprabhave namah 
. om avyayaya namah 
. om caturasrasanariidhaya 


namah 


. om caturaya namahi 
. om divyavahanaya namah 
. om vivasvan 


mandalajfieyavasaya namah 


. om vasusamrddhidaya namah 
. om mahesvarapriyaya namah 
. om dantaya namah 


470 Yoga of the Planets 


94. om merugotrapradaksinaya 102.0m audumbaranagavasaya 


namah namah 

95. om 103.0m udaraya namahi 
grahamandalamadhyasthaya 104.0m rohinipataye namah 
namah 105.0m nityodayaya namah 


96. om grasitarkaya namahi 
97. om grahadhipaya namah 
98. om dvijarajaya namah 
99. om dyutilakaya namah 


106.0m munistutyaya namah 

107.um nityanandaphalapradaya 
namah 

108.0m sakalahladanakaraya 


100.0m dvibhujaya namah 
101.om dvijapajitaya namah 


1,» RelyaTa aM: 18. 3% Gaewary aA: 

2. FEM ay: 19. 3 GaAs 7A: 

3. *# AROMA AA: 20. # TaMeMaTIAT aA: 
4. ARSE aA: 21. % awa an: 

5. oo Werder an: 22. » ave an: 

6. RAW aH: 23. 4 afaa an: 

7. Aes TOBAM an: 24. $0 dhagra aa: 

8. # AER aA: 25 4 famed an: 

9. 2 Fee an: 26. # fagceaa aa: 

10. 30 Waar ay: 27. % ffaaea an: 

11. ® caraway aa: 28. yaaa aA: 
12. % OAe an: 29. 3 eae aR: 

13. % qa aa: 30. % anaafara aa: 
14. 3 ARTA A: 31.  aaqfefatera aa: 
15, 0 aaaafaalsiara aa: 32. 2 AAT AA: 

16. 3% Orda aa: 33, go Fe aA: 

17, Barner aA: 34. 3 stale aa: 


namah 


109.0m palasedhmapriyaya 


namah 


THE MANTRAS OF MANGALA IN 
DEVANAGARI 


% RLOMTAHGN AA: 
3 arated aa: 
AQUA AA: 
BN AA: 
TARGA AA: 
HUTA FA: 

o Preqwara ay: 

% Ranplaatara aA: 
FAVA AA: 

) Sea AA: 

ci) ZUR A: 

h axa AA: 

D Beads AA: 


Mars, Mangala 471 


go Zeta aH: 

® TVraaatsaa ay: 
} WMEgA Za 7A: 
$ Fara AA: 

% VERN AA: 

} Gata an: 

0 THAYY A: 
 AAUNSAAAUY AA: 
UPN AA: 

Fe TENT) aH: 

3o Faas Aa: 
fara aa: 

A WRIST AA: 
PAH AA: 

3 arafaenfaanzera aa: 
> alfeara aa: 

SP AAAMITY AA: 

® ahaa an: 

) MASA AA: 
TARTAR AH: 
a Galfer aha aa: 
Tishaa aA: 

fo TART aR: 
TOA AA: 

A age a: 

SO AGNES AG: 
 HaedHeamiana aa: 
h GAA AA: 
Taare aeTg AA: 
% Ja an: 


472 Yoga of the Planets 


95. 
96. 
97. 
98. 


So. Oe 


NVN WN 
ose Ge Wer 


» aaah AA: 

» Ranaeetay Aa: 
® Reamnkoagas 7: 
% Bq aA: 

® Aranaa aA: 


. ATA aA: 
. % APs aa: 


102. 
103. 
104. 
105. 
106. 
107. 
108. 


THE MANTRAS OF MANGALA IN 
TRANSLITERA TION 


om mahisutaya namah 

om mahabhagaya namah 
om mangalaya namah 

om mangalapradaya namal 
om mahaviraya namah 

om mahasiraya namah 

om mahabalaparakramaya 
namah 

om maharaudraya namah 
om mahabhadraya namah 
om mananiyaya namah 

om dayakaraya namah 

om manadaya namah 

om aparvanaya namah 

om kriraya namah 

om tapatrayavivarjitaya namah 
om supratipaya namah 

om sutémraksaya namah 
om subrahmanyaya namah 
om sukhapradaya namah 
om vakrastambhadigamanaya 
namah 

om varenyaya namah 

om varadaya namah 

om sukhine namah 

om virabhadraya namah 
om viripaksaya namah 


44. 
45. 


om vidirasthaya namah 

om vibhavasave namah 

om naksatracakrasamcarine 
namah 

om ksatrapaya namah 

om ksatravarjitaya namah 
om ksayavyrddhivinirmuktaya 
namah 

om ksamayuktaya namah 
om vicaksanaya namah 

om aksinaphaladaya namah 
om caturvargaphalapradaya 
namah 

om vitaragaya namah 

om vitabhayaya namah 

om vijvardya namah 

om visvakaranaya namah 
om naksatrarasisamcaraya 
namah 

om nanabhayanikmntanaya 
namah 

om vandarujanabandhavaya 
namah 

om vakrakuficitamirdhajaya 
namah 

om kamanfyaya hamah 

om dayasaraya namah 


om kanatkanakabhiisanaya 
namah 

om bhayaghnaya namah 

om bhavyaphaladaya namah 
om bhaktabhayavarapradaya 
namah 

om Satruhantre namah 

om Samopetaya namah 

om Sarandgataposanaya namah 
om sahasine namah 

om sadgunadhyaksaya namah 
om sadhave namah 

om samaradurjayaya namah 
om dustadiraya namah 

om Sistapijyaya namah 

om sarvakastanivarakaya 
namah 

om duscest4varakaya namah 
om duhkhabhafijanaya namah 
om durdharaya namah 

om haraye namah 

om duhsvapnahantre namah 
om durdharsaya namah 

om dustagarvavimocanaya 
namah 

om bharadvajakulodbhitaya 
namah 

om bhiisutaya namah 

om bhavyabhisanaya namah 
om raktambaraya namah 

om raktavapuse namah 

om bhaktapalanatatparaya 
namah 

om caturbhujaya namah 

om gadadharine namah 

om mesavahaya namah 

om mitasanaya namah 

om Saktisiladharaya namah 
om saktaya namah 


Mars, Mangala 473 


om Sastravidyavisaradaya 
namah 

om tarkikaya namah 

om tamasadharaya namah 
om tapasvine namah 

om tamralocanaya namah 
om taptakaficanasamkasaya 
namah 

om raktakiiijilkasannibhaya 
namah 

om gotra'dhidevaya namah 
om gomadhyacaraya namah 
om gunavibhisanaya namah 
om asrje namah 

om angarakaya namah 

om avantidesadhisaya namah 
om janardanaya namah 

om stiryayamyapradesasthaya 
namah 

om yune namah 

om yamyaharinmukaya namah 
om trikonamandalagataya 
namah 

om tridasadhipasannutaya 
namah 

om Sucaye namah 

om Sucikaraya namah 


. om Siraya namah 

. om Sucivasyaya namah 
. om Subhavahaya namah 
. om mesavrscikarasisaya 


namah 


4. om medhavine namah 

. om mitabhadsanaya namah 

. om sukhapradaya namah 

. om suriipaksaya namah 

. om Sarvabhistaphalapradaya 


namah 


474 Yoga of the Planets 


THE MANTRAS OF BUDHA IN 
DLEVANAGARI 


1. Aaa aA: 26. % fafearmanan an: 
2 3 quia aa: 27. # ahad an: 

3. 2 aera an: 28.  fetasatra aa: 

4, @tafraa aa: 29, > Presinecra aa: 

5. py a: 30. 2 Maeda an: 

6. PIAA aM: 31. & ARmagerayra aa: 
7. eT a: 32. # qfand a: 

8. % Ofravaprara aa: 33, 2 agaaga an: 

9. Fase aa: 34. 3 afore aa: 

10. ge aeaaaa aH: 35. 3» aeafa arn an: 
11. Stat Waa aa: 36. 2 amlfaaarTAAT AA: 
12, # Wea aa: 37, % area] aa: 

13, # Sara aa: 38. # aguifrqra an: 

14 PAE aa: 39. } Wanaeaa aa: 

15S. - Mad aa: 40. % Fa aa: 

16. 3 MATA Aa: 41. *% aaa aa: 

17. Sp aefag aa: 42. % aPzawona aH: 
18. 30 qaaraga aa: 43. % Acqad aa: 

19. % Farag OPERA AH: 44. go Geant aa: 
20. 2 faarfeaenna an: 45, acqae an: 

21. % fags am: 46, 3 Belatya aa: 

22, » Rgehfaaa aa: 47, PRACT aA: 
23, wed aa: 48. 3 Aaycufaateanta aa: 
24. & fNaRaAN aA: 49, * afarcafaqura aa: 


25. 4 faarsfaaaraara aa: 50. # axa au: 


80. 
81. 
82. 
83. 
84. 
85. 
86, 
87. 
88. 
89. 
90. 
91, 
92. 
93. 
94. 
95. 
96. 
97. 
98. 
99. 


100. 
101. 
102. 
103. 
104. 
105. 
106. 
107. 
108. 


Mercury, Budha 475 


3 Gassaaonsara aa: 
GRAN aa: 

3 aaa aM: 

% BVI AA: 

fo AINA AA: 

Hh Beaedkaars AA: 

% fesqaraata aA: 

S AAG aA: 
3 URN AA: 
AOI aA: 

% Tara A: 

de dieprara ay: 

% feghenqaag aa: 
® qaqa aa: 

P AATLT RT Fa: 

% MAATHasars FA: 
$ saa AA: 
go aaa Aa: 
$ VAAN AA: 

& Wferegnra AA: 

® tRd AA: 

H SNPITY aH: 

So AeA AA: 

A Ta AM: 

% Reprhqaa 7A: 

} afta an: 
 aeanofaftrara aA: 
do BETA AA: 

RP TARA AA: 


476 Yoga of the Planets 


SN AM EWN 


THE MANTRAS OF BUDHA IN 
TRANSLITERATION 


om budhaya namah 

om budharcitaya namah 

om saumyaya namah 

om saumyacittaya namah 
om Subhapradaya namah 

om drdhavrataya namah 

om drdhaphalaya namah 

om srutijalaprabodhakaya 
namah 

om satya'vasaya namah 

om satyavacase namah 

om Ssreyasam pataye namalh 
om avyayaya namah 

om somajaya namah 

om sukhadaya namah 

om srimate namah 

om somavainsapradipakaya 
namah 

om vedavide namah 

om vedatattvajfiaya namah 
om vedantajfianabhaskaraya 
namah 

om vidyavicaksandya namah 
om viduse namah 

om vidvatpritikaraya namah 
om rjave namah 

om visvanukGlasaficaraya 
namah 

om visesavinayanvitaya namah 
om vividhagamasarajiiaya 
namah 

om viryavate namah 

om vigatajvaraya namah 

om trivargaphaladaya namah 
om anantaya namah 

om tridasadhipapijitaya namah 
om buddhimate namah 

om bahusastrajfidya namah 


om baline namah 

om bandhavimocakaya namah 
om vakrativakragamanaya 
namah 

om vasavaya namah 

om vasudhadhipaya namah 
om prasannavadanaya namah 
om vandyaya namah 

om varenyaya namah 

om vapvilaksanaya namah 
om satyavate namah 

om satyasamkalpaya namal) 
om satyabandhave namah 
om sadadaraya namah 

om sarvarogaprasamanaya 
namah 

om sarvamrtyunivarakaya 
namah 

om vanijyanipunaya namah 
om vasyaya namah 

om vatangaya namah 

om vatarogahrte namah 

om sthalaya namah 

om sthairyagunadhyaksaya 
namah 

om sthiélasiiksmadikaranaya 
namah 

om aprakasaya namah 

om prakasatmane namah 
om ghanaya namah 

om gaganabhisanaya namah 
om vidhistutyaya namah 

om visalaksaya namah 

om vidvajjanamanoharaya 
namah 

om carusilaya namah 

om svaprakasaya namah 

om capalaya namah 


LE en Se 


No 


om jitendriyaya namah 

om udanmukhaya namah 
om makhasaktaya namah 
om magadhadhipataye namah 
om haraye namah 

om saumyavatsarasamjataya 
namah 

om somapriyakaraya namah 
om mahate namah 

om simhadhiradhaya namah 
om sarvajfiaya namah 

om sikhivarnaya namah 

om sivarnkaraya namah 

om pitambaraya namah 

om pitavapuse namah 

om pitacchatradhvajankitaya 
namah 

om khangacarmadharaya 
namah 

om karyakartre namah 

om kalusaharakaya namah 
om atreyagotrajaya namah 
om atyantavinayaya namah 
om visvapavanaya namah 
om campeyapuspasamk asaya 
namah 


Jupiter, Brhaspati 477 


om caranaya namah 

om carubhiisanaya namah 
om vitaragaya namah 

om vitabhayaya namah 

om visuddhakanakaprabhay a 
namah 

om bandhupriyaya namah 
om bandhuyuktaya namah 
om banamandalasamsritaya 
namah 

om arkeSananivasasthaya 
namah 

om tarkasastravisaradaya 
namah 

om prasantaya namah 

om pritisamyuktaya namah 


. om priyakrte namah 

. om priyabhisanadya namah 

. om medhavine namah 

. om madhavasaktaya namah 

. om mithunadhipataye namah 
. om sudhiye namah 

. om kanyarasipriyaya namah 

. om kamapradaya namah 

. om dhanaphalasrayaya namali 


THE MANTRAS OF BRHASPATI IN 


DEVANAGARI 
$ TRS AF: 8. 30 TUT AA AH: 
% TUTRTA Aa: fo Haq Aq: 
fT an: 10. aaa: 
71 aH: ll. Waa aq: 
 mOfafrara aA: 12. 2 Waea aA: 
afte aA: 13. 2 saa an: 


Se TPT Mera AA: 


AAS AA: 


478 Yoga of the Planets 


15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
39. 
36. 
37. 
38. 
39. 
40. 
41. 
42. 
43, 
44. 


3 alae AA: 

% sATara aa: 
to MAHKMARA AA: 
3o fafanra aa: 

RH MAHAR AA: 
area Ay: 

% afta aa: 

3 R44 AA: 
 aftara aa: 

} aaa an: 
$e Faaafenaa an: 
3 Nd aM: 

A Fa ae: 


+ PraRrafteara an: 


H FEQUTA AR: 
% FeRiAa 7A: 
% Jada aa: 
30 apiteara aa: 
% RRP 7A: 
FINA AA: 


$ Wasa aA: 


go serosa Aa: 
UA AG: 

3 sieqaa Aa: 

% AA AA: 

% ara a: 

3 faqora an: 

30 feapyaora aA: 
% qaqfaaa 7A: 


45. 
46. 
47. 
48. 
49. 
50. 
51, 
52. 
53. 
54. 
55. 
56. 
57: 
58. 
59. 
60. 
61. 
62. 
63. 
64. 
65. 
66. 


67. 
68. 
69. 
70. 
71. 
72. 
73. 


% UDR aH: 

% cea aU: 

% Aaan AA: 

H SGU AH: 

% afta a: 

3 UeQY AQ: 

$o afeoraaaeyara an: 
2 Vqarafawa aa: 

h Zag aa: 

He TGA AA: 

H A aH: 

aw setadaarara aa: 
So MRR: POAT AA: 
H faaye aa: 

3 ited aa: 

go TqURTATa AA: 
ADEA aM: 

} ROP YTVA FA: 
% FST AH: 

y Fah Aosanfisars 
Aa: 

P PAGAAAAMT AA: 
$0 Fea TATA AA: 
MARAIS Aa: 

Hh RTPA AA: 
& FEiieersy aA: 

Fo ARCATA aM: 

P Qafaadaa an: 


74. 
75. 
76. 
77. 
78. 
79. 
80. 
81. 
82. 
83. 
84. 
85. 
86. 
87, 


88 


89. 
90. 
91. 


NAW Et 


% WAST an: 
 VaRaaa Aq: 

% Aaea Aq: 

% WAIST AA: 

He AaaaaTaSNg AA: 
ye aarsfefarcanra aa: 
Ho AAQAIAA aa: 
GAA PAPNA 7: 
So WASITLT AA: 
ROR IATA Aa: 
% Aaa AR: 

» DAH aA: 

H AARC AH: 
% PARMA aM: 

® aqaya A: 

a Faqara aa: 

fo ATTA AA; 


92. 
93. 
94. 
95. 
96. 
97. 
98. 
99. 


100. 
101. 
102. 
103. 
104. 
105. 
106. 
107. 
108. 


Jupiter, Brhaspati 479 


® wafaeanfaanera aA: 
Rh aaraeaa Aa: 
} Vasa aa: 
% BGG radateaana an: 
HK VTA AH: 
 Feqaa aa: 

de GRAS AR: 

% aqlad AA: 

H PASIAN AA: 

do sid aa: 

So Waa AM: 

AGA aA: 

& Taalgera an: 

$0 Gaga AR: 
 Bagqhaaa an: 


THI, MANTRAS OF BRHASPATI IN 
TRANSLITERATION 


om gurave namah 

om gunakaraya namah 
om goptre namah 

om gocaraya namah 

om gopatipriyaya namah 
om gunine namah 

om gunavatan sresthaya 
namah 

om guriinam gurave namah 
om avyayaya namah 

om jetre namah 


om jayantaya namah 

om jayadaya namah 

om jivaya namah 

om anantaya namah 

om jayavahaya namah 

om angirasaya namah 

om adhvarasaktaya namah 
om viviktaya namah 

om adhvarakrtaparaya namalt 
om vacaspataye namah 
om vasine namah 


480 Yoga of the Planets 


om vasyaya namah 

om varisthaya namah 

om vagvicaksanaya namah 
om cittasuddhikaraya namah 
om Srimate namah 

om caitraya namah 

om citrasikhandijaya namah 
om brhadrathaya namah 

om brhadbhanave namah 
om brhaspataye namah 

om abhistadaya namah 

om suracaryaya namah 

om suraradhyaya namah 

om surakaryakriodyamaya 
namah 

om girvanaposakaya namah 
om dhanyaya namah 

om gispataye namah 

om girisdya namah 

om anaghaya namah 

om dhivaraya namah 

om dhisanaya namah 

om divyabhisanaya namah 
om devapijitaya namah 

om dhanurdharaya namah 
om daityahantre namah 

om dayasaraya namah 

om dayakaraya namah 

om daridryanasanaya namah 
om dhanyaya namah 

om daksinayanasambhavaya 
namah 

om dhanurminadhipaya namah 
om devaya namah 

om dhanurbanadharaya namah 
om haraye namah 

om angirovarsasafijataya 
namah 

om angirah kulasambhavaya 
namah 

om sindhudesadhipaya namah 
om dhimate namah 

om svarmakayaya namah 

om caturbhujaya namah 

om hemangadaya namah 


om hemavapuse namah 

om hemabhisanabhisitaya 
namah 

om pusyanathaya namah 

om 
pusyaragamanimandanamandit 
aya namah 

am kaSapuspasamanabhaya 
namah 

om indradyamarasanghapaya 
namah 

om asamanabalaya namah 
om sattvaguna 
sampadvibhavasave namah 
om bhisurabhistadaya namah 
om bhiriyasase namah 

om punyavivardhanaya namah 
om dharmaripaya namah 

om dhanadhyaksaya namah 
om dhanadaya namah 

om dharmapélanaya namah 
om sarvavedarthatattvajitaya 
namah 

om sarvapadvinivarakaya 
namah 

om sarvapapaprasamanaya 
namah 

om Svamatanugatamaraya 
namah 

om rgvedaparagaya namah 
om rksarasimargapracaravate 
namah 

om sadanandaya namah 

om satyasanghaya namah 
om satyasankalpamanasaya 
namah 

om sarvagamajfiaya namah 
om sarvajfiaya namah 

om sarvavedantavide namali 
om brahmaputraya namah 
om brahmanesaya namah 

om brahmavidyavisaradaya 
namah 

om samanddhika 
nirbhuktayanamah 


-—_ wv we 


“I! 


om sarvalokavasamvadaya 
namah 

om sasurasuragandharva 
vanditaya namah 

om satyabhdsanaya namah 
om brhaspataye namah 

om suracdryaya namah 
om dayavate namah 


. om subhalaksanaya namah 


101. 
102. 
103. 
104. 
105. 
106. 
107. 
108. 


Venus, Shukra 481 


om lokatrayagurave namah 
om srimate namal 

om sarvagaya namal 

om sarvato vibhave namah 
om sarvesaya namahi 

om sarvadatustaya namah 
om sarvadaya namah 

om sarvapijitava nama 


THE MANTRAS OL SHUKRA IN 
DEV ANAGARI 


Hh YAM Aa: 

% FAA an: 
PA a: 

% 3NeTa AA: 

He BARN AA: 
go APTA A: 

A PATE FA: 

D BRAC OIMNCATA AA: 
% defsarcara 7H: 
2» cea aa: 
 eafaareaa an: 
% FIANATHA AA: 
% HAA AA: 

% HA aU: 

$ BMV AH: 
3 WAAC aa: 

S ASIN AA: 

3 ABTA AH: 


3 WAIST AH: 

de FPTETa AA: 

So FTAA AU: 
 aPRAEHaer aq: 
3 WE an: 

RH MBE AA: 

Bo AR ARAATANS 21: 
% faa am: 

% faRaorregia AH: 

% Afaftanqorra aa: 
i AASATAATAM AA: 
% Balaruraferara 4a: 
> Baraat aH: 
He THORAC A: 
oT Aa: 

SMH aa: 

d AISA AA: 
3 Falta aa: 


482 Yoga of the Planets 


37. % AMA aa: 
38. 2 ATW an: 

39. % Aradiara aH: 
40. 3 Wega an: 
41,  afesaara aA: 
42. MAW aA: 
43. ® afd aR: 


44. 4 Gea HAIG aA: 
45. 2 vaMagRanna an: 
46. 3 diaqeradraara an: 


47. % VARA Aq: 
48. 3 Waray aR: 


49. 4 hquilara aa: 


50. 3% FATT AA: 


51. BreUaTaAAUa aa: 
52, % FEMA aH: 


53. 30 dala aa: 
54. 3% Udtaqy aA: 


55. ® apiaataar aa: 


56. 30 SAAT 7H: 


57. 3 SiPaecas Aa: 


58, 2 Refers AA: 


59. # AAO AA: 


60. 3 adel aa: 
61. % atfannters an: 
62. 3 FIT aR: 
63. s eahara aa: 


64. de Sardaraaa aa: 


65. 3 mqa aH: 


66. 3 fafaaasara aa: 


% Meda Aa: 

% Frraataga a7: 

%o aifranterra aa: 
ys yeaa WA: 

% WAST AA: 

% RMS aa: 

S Fear aA: 

% Tegalenga an: 
fo aera A: 

3o faferarrad aa: 

% APTOS aA: 
% PeaqVaadeHanea aA: 
% Aeqerard aH: 

qo Ferada 7H: 

3 WAMHOAAAT Aa: 
% Afhala aA: 

& afragara 7A: 

® Taldaraarecra FA: 
J TAT AA: 

P TATA Aa: 

do FOSSA A: 
Be RUIATES TA: 

$ Haq aa: 

% Gag VTINa aA: 
od avn aH: 

% ACEH AA: 

30 WRGaTa AH: 

D yarakara aa: 

% waTafaaraa aA: 


A SS 


% MSAQAN AA: 


97. 
98. 
99. 


100. 
101. 


102 


C0 SV ONO ele BO 


pT aa: 

aftr aa: 

Fo TOT aA: 

Hh FTATGPTAT FA: 
de Sera AA: 

Se FU AA: 


108. 
104. 
105. 
106. 
107. 


Venus, Shukra -483 


® afaaara aA: 

Ho BIG AA: 

R Ateays AA: 

% AaAahsasaHy AA: 
fo Baarayeya aa: 


¢ ¢ 
_ ... haterergara aa: 


THE MANTRAS OL SHUKRA IN 
TRANSLUVERA TION 


om sukraya namah 

om sucaye namah 

om subhagunaya namah 

om subhadaya namah 

om subhalaksanaya namah 
om Sobhanaksaya namah 

om subhravahaya nasmah 

om suddhasphatikabhasvaraya 
namah 

om dinartiharakaya namah 
om daityagurave nainah 

om devabhivanditaya namah 
om kavyasaktaya namah 

om kaémapalaya namah 

om kavaye namah 

om kalyanadayakaya namah 
om bhadramirtaye namah 
om bhadragunaya namah 

om bhargavaya namah 

om bhaktapalanaya namah 
om bhogadaya namah 

om bhuvanadhyaksaya namah 
om bhuktimuktiphalapradaya 
namah 

om carusilaya namah 

om caruripaya namah 

om carucandranibhananaya 
namah 


om nidhaye namah 

om nikhilasastrajiaya namah 
om nitividyadhurarhdhariys 
namah 

om sarvalaksanasampannaya 
namah 

om sarvavagunavarjitaya 
namah 

om samanadhikaninnuktaya 
namah 

om sakalagainaparagaya 
namah 

om bhrgave namah 

om bhogakaraya namah 

om bhimisurapalanatatparaya 
namah 

om manasvine namah 

om manadaya namahi 

om manyaya namah 

om mayatitaya namah 

om mahayasase namats 

om baliprasannaya namah 
om abhayadaya namah 

om baline namah 

om satyaparakramaya namah 
om bhavapaSaparityagaya 
namah 


484 Yoga of the Planets 


46. 


om balibandhavimocakaya 
namah 

om dhanadsayaya namah 

om dhanadhyaksaya namah 
om kambugrivaya namah 
om kaladharaya namah 

om karunyarasasampirnaya 
namah 

om kalyanagunavardhanaya 
namah 

om Svetathbaradya namah 
om Svetavapuse namah 

om caturbhujasamanvitaya 
namah 

om aksamaladharaya namah 
om acintyaya namah 

om aksinagunabhasuraya 
namah 

om naksatraganasaficaraya 
namah 

om nayadaya namah 

om nitimargadaya namah 
om varsapradaya namah 

om hrsikesaya namah 

om klesanasakaraya namah 
om kavaye namah 

om cintitarthapradaya namah 
om santamataye namah 

om cittasamadhikrte namah 
om &adhivyadhiharaya namah 
om bhirivikramaya namah 
om punyadayakaya namah 
om puranapurusaya namah 
om piijyaya namah 

om puruhitadisannutaya 
namah 

om ajeyadya namah 

om vijitarataye namah 

om vividhabharanojvalaya 
namah 


om kundapuspapratikasaya 
namah 

om mandahasaya namah 

om mahamataye namah 

om muklaphalasamanabhaya 
namah 

om muktidadya namah 

om munisannutaya namah 
om ratnasimhdasanariidhaya 
namah 

om rathasthaya namah 

om rajataprabhaya namah 
om siryapraydeSsasaticaraya 
namah 

om suraSatrusuhrde namah 
om kavaye namah 

om durdharaya namah 

om dharmapalakaya namah 
om bhazyadaya namah 

om bhavyacaritraya namah 
om bhavapaSavimocakaya 
namah 

om gaudadesesvaraya namah 
om goptre namah 

om gunine namah 

om gunavibhiisanaya namah 


. om jyesthanaksatrasambhiitaya 


namah 


. om jyesthaya namah 

. orn Sresthaya namah 

. om Sucismitaya namah 

4. om apavargapradaya namah 
. om anantaya namah 

. om samt&naphaladayakaya 


namah 


. om sarvaiSvaryapradaya 


namah 


- om sarvagirvanaganasamnutaya 


namah 


Saturn, Shani 485 


THE MANTRAS OF SHANI IN DEVANAGARI 


2} WA AA: 

® Weal AA: 

Jo Baritewantta aA: 
30 BRVATY AA: 

fo AWA AA: 
Baa aa: 

ana au: 

HK QIN AA: 

* Garage aa: 
H Ara AH: 
Aa aA: 

$0 GASA A: 

A TATION aT: 
Tareas FA: 
® Galaga 7a: 
Aaa AR: 
 Wesaera aa: 

% FEAR AB: 
Y AGUA aT TA: 
S Tea aa: 

% SRA AA: 

3 Baia aH: 

He MATT AA: 
$e ARIANA AA: 
Bh ATI AA: 


% Asana aa: 

» faa aA: 

d atormsateryra aa: 
} AereaRaaT aa: 
® PASTS AU: 

do Jaa an: 

30 Fah aa: 

% TMT FA: 
H WREATAA A: 
d FaeEa AA: 

o FuTqaa 7A: 

% ARTA aa: 

A TARP aa: 

& frqeaaNa aA: 
A fisqqeTa aa: 
 Taaels AU: 
TAN Aa: 

Jo RATA Aa: 

» Hef aH: 
 Sicaqay FA: 

$o TUOMAS AA: 

3o TPATa AA: 

% afearearna aA: 
» frafaaraetan) an: 
BP ASR AA: 
h ANE 7A: 


486 Yopa of the Planets 


53. 3 fama aA: 
54. afta: 

55, 3 fafaanmated aa: 
56. 30 fateqewa an: 
57, % aq an: 

58. 3 faeqera an: 
59. after an: 

60. 2 Ther an: 

61. # FARMAN 7a: 
62. BAPE aH: 
63. 2 aA an: 

64. # SQaraehaaar an: 
65. 3 31gTa aa: 

66. 2 feria an: 
67. 3 FOUTS aA: 
68. 3 Weed aA: 

69. $0 aca aa: 

70. % tdeeRa an: 
71. go wRRaRaTa aH: 
72. 3 Wed aa: 

73. AIA aA: 
74. 3 YqTa AA: 

75, 3 Waar an: 


76. * TVS SREY aA: 


77. Tae aa: 

78. 3 WqSTd aa: 

79. 3 aqMnraleera aM: 
80. # aaa 4A: 


81. 
82. 
83. 
84. 
85. 
86. 
87. 
88. 
89. 
90. 
91. 
92. 
93. 
94. 
95. 
96. 
97. 
98. 
99. 


100. 


101 
102 
103, 
104 
105 


106. 
107. 


108 


P MAAN AA: 
> fignoais an: 
% Wat Fad AA: 

p BANA aA: 

go GTA AA: 

Jo Yaa AA: 
SAA aA: 
H AANA AA: 
Ho ANS aA AU: 

4 faeqra an: 

3o faryora an: 

3p TONS AA: 

d fara aA: 

3 Aeqa AU: 

P Fada AA: 
Ora aa: 
 fgeaaera an: 

Bo atafdeconra vA: 
3 SARIS AA: 
BRIA wag aA: 
HUT AA: 

2 BINT qa: 

do SINR TH: 
do BSATAMFAM LT AA: 
% Sfcaearn aH: 
} TRAE an: 

do aMAEAAMenedy AA: 


NWN NW 
Aber ae Release 


Saturn, Shani 487 


THLE MANTRAS OF SHANI IN 
TRANSLITERATION 


om Sanaiscaraya namah 

om santaya namah 

om sarvabhistapraday ine 
namah 

om Saranyaya namah 

om varenyaya namah 

om sarvesaya namah 

om saumyaya namah 

om suravandyaya namah 
om suralokaviharine namah 
om sukhdsanopavistaya namah 
om sundaraya namah 

om ghanaya namah 

om ghanariipaya namah 

om ghanabharanadharine 
namah 

om ghanasaravilepaya namah 
om khadyotaya namah 

om mandaya namah 

om mandacestaya namah 
om mahaniyagunatmane 
namah 

om martyapavanapadaya 
namah 

om mahesaya namah 

om chayaputraya namah 
om Sarvaya namah 

om Satatiiniradharine namah 
om carasthirasvabhavaya 
namah 

om acaiicalaya namah 

om nilavarnaya namah 

om nityaya namah 

om nilafijananibhaya namah 
om nilambaravibhisaya namah 
om niscalaya namah 

om vedyaya namah 


om vidhiripaya namah 

om virodhadharabhimaye 
namah 

om bhedaspadasvabhavaya 
namah 

om vajradehaya namah 

om vairagyadaya namah 

om viraya namah 

om vitarogabhayaya namah 
om vipatparamparesaya namah 
om visvavandyaya namah 

om egrdhravahaya namah 

om gidhayanamah 

om kirmanhgaya namah 

om kurtipine namah 

om kutsitaya namah 

om gunadhyaya namah 

om gocaraya namah 

om avidyamillanasaya namah 
om vidyavidyasvaripine 
namah 

om ayusyakaranaya namah 
om 4paduddhartre namah 

om visnubhaktaya namah 

om vasine namah 

om vividhagamavedine namah 
om vidhistutyaya namah 

om vandyaya namah 

om virlipaksaya namah 

om varisthaya namah 

om garisthaya namah 

om vajrankusadharaya namah 
om varadabhayahastaya namah 
om vamanaya namah 

om jyesthapatnisametaya 
namah 

om Sresthaya namah 


488 Yoga of the Planets 


THE MANTRAS OF RAHU 


om mitabhasine namah 

om kastaughanasakartre namah 
om pustidaya namah 

om stutyaya namah 

om stotragamyaya namah 

om bhaktivasyaya namah 

om bhanave namah 

om bhanuputraya namah 

om bhavyaya namah 

om pavanaya namah 

om dhanurmandalasamsthaya 
namah 

om dhanadaya namah 

om dhanusmate namah 

om tanuprakasadehaya namah 
om témasaya namah 

om aSesajanavandyaya namah 
om visesaphaladadyine namal 
om vasikrtajanesaya namah 
om pasiinam pataye namah 
om khecaraya namah 

om khagesaya namalhi 

om ghananilambaraya namah 
om kathinyamanasaya namah 


% Wea aa: 
Ofna aH: 

H faqrdaa aa: 

» Gra aH: 

WH AM: 

ae Hid aa: 

} TAA Aa: 

A AA AA: 

$ TtestaaeaNg aA: 


10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 


18. 


om aryaganastutyaya namah 
om nilacchatraya namah 
om nityaya namah 

om nirgundya namah 

om gunatmane namah 

om niramayaya namah 
om nandyaya namah 

om vandaniyaya namah 
om dhiraya namah 

om divyadehaya namah 
om dinartiharanaya namah 


. om dainyanasakaraéya namah 
. om aryajanaganyaya namah 

. om kriraéya namah 

. om kriracestaya namah 

. om kémakrodhakaraya namah 
. om 


kalatraputraSatrutvakaranaya 
namah 


. om paripositabhaktaya namah 
. om parabhitiharaya namah 
. om bhaktasamgha 


manobhistaphaladaya namah 


IN DEVANAG A RI 


$e TPA aH: 

% QRALENIRY Fa: 
H AAMAS AA 
H FSA aq 
Aaa aH: 
 FOAA Ahad AA: 
Ho ae a: 


Mpls aa: 
% msfhara aa: 

P FRA aA: 
SPR aA: 

2 Tear aA: 

Se Bisa aa: 

* fafiqra an: 

de POA AA: 

> faassen aa: 
% avanti aa: 

3 BWhAasely AA: 
TSA AH: 

Pp BRAS AT aa: 

} Poa H AA: 

% Qe aseHy AA: 
PR BUSA AA: 

ho WATTS AH: 
TAS AH: 
 RaaIeHa aA: 

cr) Aaoifeara aq: 

3 FRORA aa: 

% Aeaaa aa: 

& afamedaania aa: 
he Weloaniy aM: 

P SARA AA: 

& Opa aa: 

} alffachod aa: 

S 2a AA: 
 AqIeMaa aa: 


Rahu, the North Node 489 


% Sara AA: 

$ daqasafafeacara an: 
) aeaqareEenn aa: 
fp TEA Aa: 

R BCAA aA: 

p HATE AH: 

H WGUAaHalRaya AA: 
 TeeaTOTAyy AA: 
@ zasfashtenra aA: 
a RA aA: 

ONT aH: 

3 ARIA AA: 

% yaitara aA: 

2 spa aU: 

® Aled TRATES AA: 
p Tae FASIcUa AA: 
cof ageSHaed au: 

P AGA Adela A: 
R WAT Wea 
qa: 

# feta aA: 

Ho Teas A: 

30 AerArara 4a: 

yh Weta Aa: 

"4 fagitva aa: 

de WchlEtaea AA: 

* THEIRS AA: 
a wae AA: 

R aga fages vq: 


39H Nae aA: 


490 Yoga of the Planets 


78. YA ROI AM: 94. 3 Was aa: 

79. AAA BOE aM: 95. 2% Gara aa: 

80. % We fraera an: 96. % WEA aA: 

81. 3 Agu daar an: 97. ® Mea aa: 

82. % AAA Wea aM: 98. 2 Waar aM: 

83, $0 @aTH aMeaeanre AA: 98. HEGRE aA: 
84, # Sel Fa: gar aa: 100, % Wdaagaiga aA: 
85, 3 Hed AaTH aA: 101. 2% AMV AA: 

86. 3 alecad Aa: 102. % TEA aa: 

87. RTCA aA: 103. 3 Fay aA: 
88. MA HEAT aA: 104. % dara aa: 

89. % THR faqopssqera aA: 105. 3% FA AA: 

90. sv =plad aa: 106. % daa 7H: 

91. 3 afsa aA: 107. % faa aa: 

92. # Herareaalfad an: 108. % @ara 7a: 

93, 2 aaah an: 109, 4 aaa aa: 


THE MANTRAS OF RAEHU IN 
'TRANSLITERATION 


( om rahave namah 12. om varadadyakahastakdya 

2. om saimhikeyaya namah namah 

3. om vidhuntudaya namah 13. om silayudhaya namah 

4. om suraSatrave namah 14. om meghavarnaya namah 

5. om tamase namah 15. om krsnadhvajapatakavate 

6. om phanine namah namah 

7. om gargyayanaya namah 16. om daksinasamukharathaya 

8. om suraraye namah namah 

9.  omnilajimitasarnkasaya 17. om tiksnadamstrakaralakava 
namah namah 

10. om caturbhujaya namah 18. om stirpakarasanasthaya 

1}. om khangakhetakadharine namah 
namah 19. om gomedhabharanapriyaya 


namah 


om masapriyaya namah 

om kasyaparsinandanaya 
namah 

om bhujagesvaraya namah 
om ulkapatayitre namah 

om Siiline namah 

om nidhipaya namah 

om krsnasarparaje namah 
om viSajvalavrta’syaya namah 
om ardhasariraya namah 

om Satravapradaya namah 
om ravindubhikaraya namah 
om chayasvariipine namah 
om kathinangakaya namah 
om dvisacchakracchedakaya 
namahi 

om karalasyaya namah 

om bhayamkaraya namah 
om krérakarmane namah 
om tamoriipaya namah 

om Syamatmane namah 

om nilalohitaya namah 

om kiritine namah 

om nilavasanaya namah 

om Sanisamantavartmagaya 
namah 

om candalavarnaya namah 
om aSvyrksabhavaya namah 
om mesabhavaya namah 

om Sanivatphaladaya namah 
om suraya namah 

om apasavyagataye namah 
om uparagakaraya namah 
om somasiiryacchavi 
vimardakaya namah 

om nilapuspaviharaya namah 
om grahasresthaya namah 
om astamagrahaya namah 
om kabandhamatradehaya 
namah 

om yatudhanakulodbhavaya 
namah 

om govindavarapatraya namah 


Rahu, the North Node 491 


om devajatipravistakaya 
namah 

om kriiraya namah 

om ghoraya namah 

om Sanermitraya namah 

om sukramitraya namah 

om agocaraya namah 

om mane gangasnanadatre 
namah 

om svagrahe prabaladhyadaya 
namah 

om sadgrahe'nyabaladhrte 
namah 

om caturthe matmasakaya 
namah 

om candrayukte 
candalajatisicakaya namah 
om sirmhajanmane namah 
om rajyadatre namah 

om mahakayaya namah 

om janmakartre namah 

om vidhuripave namah 

om madakajfianadaya namah 
om janmakanyarajyadatre 
namah 

om janmahanidaya namah 
om navame pitrhantre namah 
om paficame Sokadayakaya 
namah 

om dyéne kalatrahantre namah 
om saptame kalahapradaya 
namah 

om sasthe vittadatre namah 
om caturthe vairyadayakaya 
namah 

om navame papadatre namah 
om dasame Sokadayakaya 
namah 

om adau yasahpradatre namah) 
om ante vairapradayakaya 
namah 

om kalatmane namah 

om gocaracaraya namah 

om dhane kakutpradaya namah 


492 Yoga of the Planets 


om paficame dhisanasmgadaya 


namah 

om svarbhanave namah 
om baline namah 

om mahdsaukhyapraday ine 
namah 

om candravairine namah 
om sasvataya namah 

om suraSatrave namah 
om papagrahaya namah 
om sambhavaya namah 
om piijyakaya namah 

om patirapirandya namah 


100. 


101. 
102, 
103. 


104. 
105. 
106, 
107. 
108. 
109. 


THE MANTRAS OF KETU 


do aa aa: 

H BSAA AA: 
do Raa an: 
jo THA AA: 
 Aaveqara Aa: 


30 fafeasge sw Prqerara aa: 


RAC ICCTIGE ( D 
go Parauiia aa: 

ao AiftRSIaa aH: 
% FEMASHRMNG AA: 
% arerdga an: 
 Aeleua aH: 
 GHAala AA: 
 Renlta aa: 

® daar an: 

% HalqU aA: 

So HCAVSIT AA: 


om paithinasakulodbhavaya 
namah 

om bhaktaraksaya namah 
om rahumirtaye namah 

om sarvabhistaphalapradaya 
namah 

om dirghaya namah 

om krsnaya namah 

om atanave namah 

om visnunetraraye namah 
om devaya namah 

om danavaya namah 


IN DEVANAGARI 


H BrawDalsagay aA: 
30 HecqEalg AA: 

$0 HErenaa aa: 

% Gana aA: 

d Gages Aa: 

H FTM4 AA: 

$ TANGO AA: 

> RATA aA: 
Hi PRATT AB: 
Una aa: 

do Praag aa: 

+ RiRaa an: 

Fe PATH AA: 
S FAPRUTA AA: 
DP SAMA AA: 


} Wasa aa: 


36, 


64. 


So RAT AA: 

% MeN AA: 
NaI AA: 

R adda an: 
 afPetacna aH: 
Fragen aa: 

% afeompara aa: 

A YpeqgTAa AA: 
H FAIRGARAY AA: 
$0 WATT Aa: 

» radar aa: 

3 FRAa AA: 

H SAAS TIAN AA: 
P ALVA AA: 

» jana aa: 
3 AMS 7A: 
 yearta aa: 
 VAIRAALH AH: 
® Framer 7: 

HO TASS AA: 

oo aaanpraRray aH: 
ATTA aa: 
} aaa Wea aa: 
®» TAA Weary aa: 

Ho TARR Aa: 
h afageraani aa: 
} qa asa ay; 
Ho ada aera A: 

BR WIS AA: 

Ho OHSHAIHTS AA: 


83. 


87. 


Ketu, the South Node 493 


} FATWA aH: 

} aaa ALTAR AA: 
aay fqaarea aa: 
P FA APARTS AA: 
BAAS AA: 

30 HAAS AA: 

P BATA AB: 
h Sed Hifaara aa: 


494 Yoga of the Planets 


95. ® afar an: 102. ® aR aa 

96. fo WHATS AA: 103. % fesyeera aA: 

97. % fireara aa: 104. % ARAN a 

98. 3 hqyda aa: 105. 3 WRG Aa: 

99. % ial aH: 106. 2% aha agree aa 
100. % SAW aH: 107. ® fanaa an: 

101. % Weare aH: 108. # 7EPMCFSTay aA: 


|. om ketave namah 24. om varahastaya namah 
2. om sthilasirase namah 25. om gadapanaye namah 
3. om Siromatraya namah 26. om citravastradharaya namah 
4. om dhvajakrtaye namah 27. om citradhvajapatakaya namah 
5. om navagrahayutaya namah 28. om ghoraya namah 
6. om 29. om citrarathadya namah 
simhika’surigarbhasambhavaya 30. om sikhine namah 
namah 31. om kulutthabhaksakaya namah 
7. om mahabhitikaraya namah 32. om vaidiryabharanaya namah 
8. om citravaraya namah 33. om utpitajanakaya namah 
9. om Sripingalaksakaya namah 34. om Sukramitraya namah 
10. om phulladhGmasakasaya 35. om mandasakhaya namah 
namah 36. om gadadharaya namah 
(1. om tiksnadamstraya namah 37. om nakapataye namah 
12. om mahodaraya namah 38. om antarvedisvaraya namah 
13. omraktanetraya namah 39. om jaiminigotrajaya namah 
14. om citrakdrine namah 40. om citraguptatmane namah 
15. om tivrakopaya namah 41. om daksinamukhaya namah 
16. om mahasuraya namah 42. om mukundavarapatraya 
17. omkrirakanthaya namah namah 
18. om krodhanidhaye namah 43. om mahasurakulodbhavaya 
19. om chayagrahaviscsakaya namah 
namah 44. om ghanavarpaya namah 
20. om antyagrahaya namah 45. om lambadevaya namah 
21. om mahasirsaya namah 46. om mrtyuputraya namah 
22. om sidryarayenamah 47. om utpatariipadharine namah 
23. om puspavadgrahine namah 48. om adrsyaya namah 


THE MANTRAS OF KETU IN 
TRANSLITERATION 


om kalagnisannibhaya namah 
om nrpidaya namah 

om grhakarine namah 

om sarvopadravavarakaya 
namah 

om citraprasiitaya namah 

om analaya namah 

om sarvavyadhivinasakaya 
namah 

om apasavyapracarine namah 
om navame papadayakaya 
namah 

om paficame Sokadaya namah 
om uparagakhecaraya namah 
om atipiirusakarmane namah 
om turiye sukhapradaya namah 
om trtiye vairadaya namah 
om papagrahaya namah 

om sphotakakarakadya namah 
om prananathaya namah 

om paficame Sramakarakaya 
namah 

om dvitiye sphutavagdatre 
namah 

om visakulitavaktrakaya 
namah 

om kamartpine namah 

om sitnhadantaya namah 

om kusedhmapriyaya namah 
om caturthe mat maSaya namah 
om navame pitmasakaya 
namah 

om antye vairapradaya namah 
om sutanandanidhanakaya 
namah 

om sarpaksijataya namah 

om anangaya namah 


Ketu, the South Node 495 


om karmaraSyudbhavaya 
namah 

om upante kirtidaya namah 
om saptame kalahapradaya 
namah 

om astame vyadhikartre namah 
om dhane bahusukhapradaya 
namah 

om janane rogadaya namah 
om urdhvamirdhajaya namah 
om grahanayakaya namah 
om papadrstaye namah 

om khecaraya namah 

om sambhavaya namah 

om asesapijitaya namah 

om Sasvataya namah 

om nataya namah 

om Subhasubhaphalapradaya 
namah 

om dhiimraya namah 

om sudhapayine namah 

om ajitaya namah 

om bhaktavatsalaya namah 
om simhasanaya namah 

om ketumirtaye namah 

om ravindudyutinasakaya 
namah 


. om amaraya namah 

. om pidakaya namah 

. om amartyaya namah 

. om visnudrstaya namah 

. Om asuresvaraya namah 

. om bhaktaraksaya namah 

. om vaicitryakapotasyandanava 


namah 


. om vicitraphaladayine namah 
. om bhaktabhistaphalapradaya 


namah 


496 Yoga of the Planets 


ADVANCED MANTRA SILLECTION FROM 
THE ASTROLOGICAL CHART 


BobyY LEVEL: Tri ASCENDANT AND II's LORD 


The Ascendant is the point in the zodiac rising at the time of 
birth. This is very important for the body and its health. The 360 degrees 
of the zodiac are divided into 12 sections starting from the Ascendant and 
these are called the ‘houses’ of the chart. One major difference between 
the Western and Vedic Astrological systems is that the Western system 
starts the houses from the Ascendant point while the Vedic system takes 
the Ascendant as the centre or approximate centre of the 1* house. The 
simplest house system divides the 360 degrees into 12 equal parts or 
houses. For more information about this, you can study almost any book 
on astrology but the simplest thing to do is to get a print out of your chart 
showing the 12 houses and their rulers. Topics seen from the 12 houses 
include: 


1. Body, health, intelligence, 7. Spouse, partners, business 
fame 8. Inheritance, old karma 

2. Family, food, wealth 9. Father, religion, fortune 

3. Siblings, courage, enterprise 10. Status, career 

4, Mother, home, property, 11. Income, social network 
friends 12. Expenses, retreats, passing 

5. Children, creativity away 


6. Disease, enemies, pets 


If you know the planets in the houses and the ruler of each house, 
then you can see which planets’ mantras may help if there are issues in 
some area of your life. For health, the most important houses are the 1*, 
8% and 10*. For these, you can do the mantras based on the count from 
the Ascendant to the Lords of these houses. 


Here is the chart of a great saint from India, Shri Ramakrishna 
Paramahamsa. He attained a high state very young in life but followed the 
spiritual paths of all the great religions so I'm sure he would not mind us 
using his chart for our learning. This chart is from Shri Jyoti Star 7 and 
shows the mantra number for each planet. On the left is the chart in 
North Indian style and on the right is the South Indian style. The South 
Indian chart has the houses numbered. You can sec that the first house is 
Aquarius (ruled by Saturn), the 2.4 Pisces (Jupiter), the 3 Aries (Mars), 
the 4" Taurus (Venus), the 5t" Gemini (Mercury), the 6" Cancer (Moon), 


Advanced Mantra Selection 497 


the 7" Leo (Sun), the 8'* Virgo (Mercury), the 9% Libra (Venus), the 10% 
Scorpio (Mars), the 11% Sagittarius (Jupiter) and the 12" Capricorn 
(Saturn). 


In your chart, the rising sign may be different but the rulers that 
were given above in brackets remain the same for the signs. It is easiest 
to consider the rising sign as the 1st house and then assign the other 
houses to the signs in order around the zodiac as we do in this example. 
We will need the house rulers most often. 


Rashi 07 General 
UL' |Ra”® AL” 
Jp” 
3 Ast 4 Tau 5 Gem 
6 Can 
7 Leo 
Ke“ Sa® 
10 Seo gu 8Vi 


As an example, let us derive the numbers of the mantras for the 
three health related houses. The first, and most important is the count 
from the Ascendant to the ruler of the 1: house. In the chart above you 
can see it says As®! in Aquarius. So 91 is the number for the Ascendant 
(As). Aquarius is ruled by Saturn so we look for Saturn and see Sa*° in 
Libra. So we compute 59 - 91 + 1 = - 31 and as it is negative, we add 108 
so we get 108 - 31 = 77. This mantra is found on the Saturn list. We use 
the list of the planet we count to. It is that planet from the view point of 
the Ascendant, which is our native intelligence. 


The other houses that could be important are the 8" (Virgo), 
which is ruled by Mercury, which is also in Aquarius with number 95. So 
the count is 95 - 91 + 1 = 5 and to the 10% house (Scorpio) ruler Mars, 
which is in Capricorn and whose number is 88. So 88 - 91 + 1 = -2 and 
then add 108 giving 108 - 2 = 106. 


MIND LEVEL: FROM THE MOON 


The first way of supporting one’s emotional, mental and social 
experience is to calculate the mantras for different key planets from the 
Moon. One way to decide key planets is based on their association with a 


498 Yoga of the Planets 


key house. See Body Level: The Ascendant and its Lord above, for an 
explanation of houses. Count from the Moon ta the planet as we did above 
from the Ascendant 


MIND LEVEL: DASHAS INCLUDING CONDITIONAL DASHAS 


Everyone has heard about Vimshottari Dasha. It is a brilliant 
system that works well for everyone. However, in some charts 
astrologers struggle to apply it. This is because there are nine conditional 
Dashas that apply in certain charts. These work a lot like Vimshottari but 
have different rules so the cycles come out different. The best known of 
these is Astottari Dasha. In the Shri Jyoti Star software, if you click on a 
Dasha listing and select ‘Dashas for this’ in Version 7 or just look at the 
list on the Dashas page in earlier versions, it puts an asterisk against the 
applicable Conditional Dashas. These Conditional Dashas are the nine 
Dashas listed after Vimshottari Dasha at the top of the Dasha list. You can 
then click on one of applicable Dashas and see what period you are in to 
get the mantra. Count to this planet as described previously. Because 
these mantras are based on the 108 Padas, they are especially connected 
to the Nakshatra based Dashas like Vimshottari. 


SOUL LEVEL: FROM THE SUN 


One can compute the mantra for any planet from the Sun and this 
supports the experience from the soul level. The Sun is considered the 
soul of ali as well as telling us about our own ego. In the next paragraph, 
we explore a more personalized view of the incarnate soul. One way to 
decide which planets to choose is based on their association with a key 
house. 


SOUL LEVEL: CHARS K.\RAKAS 


The Chara Karakas (CK) are the weekday planetary rulers Sun to 
Saturn plus Rahu for a total of eight. Based on their degrees, they are 
assigned roles in the life of the soul. The one with the highest degree 
position in its sign is called the Atma Karaka (AK) and is considered to be 
the king of the chart. This planet is the one that most represents your 
current incarnation. For example, suppose the Moon is at 29°20’ and all 
the other planets have lesser values (ignoring signs), then the Moon 
becomes the AK. For Rahu, because it is naturally retrograde, one has to 
subtract its degrees and minutes from 30. Ketu, the other eclipse point, is 
not used in this scheme as it is the planet for liberation, not incarnation. 


Advanced Mantra Selection 499 


If all of these planets are sorted by their degrees and minutes in 
their sign, then this gives the CK list. From the highest to the lowest, the 
positions assigned are: 


Atma Karaka (AK) Soul planet 

Amatya Karaka (AmK) Best friend or advisor, career and work 
Bhratri Karaka (BK) Siblings and key teachers, spirituality 
Matri Karaka (MK) Mother, home and stability 


Pitri Karaka (PiK) Father and all elders 
Putra Karaka (PK) Children and followers 
Gnati Karaka (GK) Colleagues and relatives 
Dara Karaka (DK) Spouse and prosperity 


Some people leave out the Putra Karaka while some others 
exclude the Pitri Karaka but these are vital parts of our life so | do not 
recommend this. 


The advantage of this list is that one can now see the relationship 
between the soul and other key players in one’s life. If you calculate the 
number for the AK and other CK then you can work out the count from 
the AK to each of the others. If you want to enhance that relationship or 
that area of life, then this is a powerful way to find a helpful mantra. 


Rashi D4 Genem! 


Here is Ramakrishna’s chart with each planet labeled with its 
Chara Karaka status. Now we can find mantras for various areas of the 
person's life that will be especially meaningful as they are from the 
viewpoint of the incarnate soul, the AK. For example, we count career 
from the AK to the AmK, which is Mars with number 88 (the numbers are 
as given on the chart on page 497). The AK Rahu has number 10. So the 
count is 88 - 10 + 1 = 79. The mantra is seen on the Mars list and can be 
helpful with matters of career. 


500 Yoga of the Planets 


SECRETS OF VIMSHOTIART DASHA 


As a bonus | have decided to publish some unique secrets about 
Jyotisha or Vedic Astrology. This chapter describes the insights that came 
to me this year (2015) regarding the sequence and cycle lengths of the 
two most important Dasha systems. These systems provide a way of 
predicting by detining planetary cycles or periods. Each planet is given a 
certain number of years and then within each such major period, there 
are sub-periods (and sub-sub periods) assigned to the planets in the 
same way as the major periods. These systems are so astonishingly 
accurate that even Western astrologers use them. 


For 33 years, I, like everyone else who studies Jyotisha, 
wondered about the origin of the lengths of the Vimshottari Dashas. | 
could never find a way into this mystery. Nowhere in the literature, 
ancient or modern, can even a satisfactory hint be found. Then, on July 7, 
2015, I saw on the web at least a partial derivation of the sequence of 
lords. It relied on knowing the Dasha cycle lengths. At the end, the author 
appealed for someone to find a solution to the problem of deriving the 
length of the cycles. The thought came, ‘let's give it a shot’. 


| pulled out a fresh sheet of paper and started writing down 
equations that might help. Bit by bit the key principles unfolded 
themselves. It did not take long to realize that | had an answer and it just 
required some polishing. In the process, some wonderful insights 
appeared as well as a profound advance in the understanding of the Tara 
Bala, which is most important for interpreting the Dasha. I have not found 
this written anywhere. So both these remarkable and interesting secrets 
were given to me and I am sharing them with you. 


THE VIMSHOTTARI DASHA 


This system has a total length of 120 years and is called the ‘king’ 
of the Dasha systems, of which there are more than 30. While most of 
them are only to be used for certain charts or certain issues, Vimshottari 
is generally applicable. The structure of the Dasha consists of a sequence 
of the nine planets and a fixed length for each. The mystery was how one 
derived this sequence and its cycle lengths. 


Secrets of Vimshottari Dasha 501 


THE SEQUENCE OF THRE VIMSHOTTARI DASHA LORDS 


The main part of the sequence follows from the relative speeds of 
the planets (Grahas) as observed from Earth leaving out the lunar 
elements, Moon, Rahu and Ketu. This has been pointed out before. 
Everything else here is 
original research. 


In Figure 1, the 
Grahas have been placed in 
their natural speed 
sequence with the Sun 
taking the place of the Earth 
as it appears to us. This 
gives the order Mercury, 
Venus, Sun, Mars, Jupiter, 
Saturn. This is also, of 
course, the order of the 
planets going out from the 
Sun. The further out, the 
longer the planet takes to 
. orbit the Sun so the slower 
Figure 1. The Sequence it seems to be moving as 
observed from the Earth. It 
is a natural presumption that the ancients observed the speeds first 
before they figured out that this was based on relative distances from the 
Sun. 


How this astronomical observation is applied to Jyotisha: 
There are several core applications. 1) The Lordships of the signs, 2) the 
Hora lords and 3) the days of the week. 


1. The Lordship of the Signs: Leo and Cancer are adjacent and these are 
assigned to the Sun and the Moon respectively. The lordships of the 
rest of the signs are then assigned according to the astronomical order 
moving around the zodiac in both directions. That means, the next two 
signs are given to Mercury (Gemini and Virgo). The next two are ruled 
by Venus (Taurus and Libra) and then there comes the signs of Mars 
(Aries and Scorpio). After that comes jupiter’s signs (Sagittarius and 
Pisces) and finally Saturn’s signs (Capricorn and Aquarius). 


2. The Hora Lords: Dividing the zodiac into 24 parts follows naturally 
from the 12 Lunar months with each one having a waxing and waning 
half (12x2=24). As the Ascendant rotetes through the zodiac once ina 
day, the day naturally divides into 24. The lordship sequence is Saturn, 


502 Yoga of the Planets 


Jupiter, Mars, Sun, Venus, Mercury and the Moon. This is in the 
descending order of observed speed. 


3. The Days of the Week: The first hour of the first day was given to the 
Sun, hence Sunday. After that, the Hora sequence follows and keeps 
repeating. After 24, the next is the Hora of the Moon. Hence the second 
day was called the day of the Moon (Monday, Lundi, etc.). By 
continuing this method, all the rest of the days’ planetary lords arise - 
Mars (Tuesday, mardi), Mercury (Wednesday, mercredi), Jupiter 
(Thursday, jeudi), Venus (Friday, vendredi) and Saturn (Saturday, 
samedi). 1 give the French also as it shows how another language links 
with the weekday planets. 


In 1 and 3, the Sun and Moon are adjacent in the sequence. As 3 
arises from 2, this adjacent position can be derived from the pure velocity 
order where the Moon comes first several places ahead of the Sun. This 
supports putting the Sun next to the Moon in the Nakshatra Lordships. 


All these sequences keep repeating. Everything in Jyotisha is 
cyclical as it is with the Nakshatra lords. That is the lords are placed 
around a circle in Figure 1. First the true planets and the Sun are placed 
by the observed velocity sequence and now we explain how the lunar 
group is added. 


THE LUNAR GROUP 


The lunar group consists of the Moon and its nodes, as these are 
not in the list of planets going out from the Sun. The nodes, Rahu and 
Ketu, are the eclipse points where the Moon’s orbit crosses that of the 
Earth around the Sun. Since the Moon’s orbit gives rise to the nodes, they 
form a natural group. According to Jyotisha rules, the Moon is Jala or 
water, Ketu is Agni or fire and Rahu is Vayu or wind. These ‘elements’ or 
Tattvas in Sanskrit are the very core of Jyotisha. According to the wider 
Vedic literature, they appeared very early in the process of creation and 
all material things were made from them. Virtually everything in Jyotisha 
has deep roots in the five Tattvas. 


THE DHARMA TRIKON.A 


Mars is the lord of the natural first house, Aries, and the Sun and 
Jupiter rule its trines. This is called the Dharma Trikona (triangle) made 
up of the three fire signs. The importance of this can be seen in a regular 
North Indian Vedic chart in Figure 2. 


Application to Nakshatras: It is mentioned in the Vamana 
Purana and many other Vedic texts that goddess Narasimhi shakes her 
mane and the Nakshatras are tossed about. This is a clear allusion to the 


Secrets of Vimshottari Dasha 503 


central Nakshatra of the Vimshottari sequence being ruled by Mars. 
Narasimhi is the Shakti of Mars and to shake the stars, she must be 
standing in the centre of them. Otherwise, any Graha’s Shakti could have 
done this. 


If we look at Figure 1 and 
imagine Mars in the centre of the 
sequence, we can see the Sun and Jupiter 
on either side. It would make a 
foundational trine, if these two Grahas 
were also central to their halves of the 
sequence, each half being inclusive of 
the central ruler Mars. For this, one 
Graha must be added either side of Mars.. 


Figure 2, Dharma We know the correct position is the 
Trikona in the Vedic Moon is next to the Sun and Mars, Rahu 
Chart is the other side of Mars and Ketu is 


opposite it in the circle. 


Inserting the Lunar group: There are a number of good reasons 
for the placement of the Moon and the nodes where we know them to be. 
Likely, the most important reason is from the consideration of the 
Tattvas and Kendras. The Kendras are the four angles of the Vedic chart, 
the 1st, 4%, 7 and 10" houses. In Figure 3 and its explanation below, we 
can see that the Agni Grahas (Sun, Mars, Ketu) are associated with the 
10" house where they have directional strength. Similarly, the Jala 
Grahas (Moon, Venus) are associated with the fourth house, where thcy 
have directional strength. These opposite houses form a pair on the 4-10 
axis. 


If we look at the sequence from Ketu to Mars in Figure 1, we 
see that Agni oscillates with fala, the 10 oscillates with the 4* like 
this: Ketu (Agni, 10), Venus (Jala, 4), Sun (Agni, 10), Moon (Jala, 4) and 
Mars (Agni, 10). For the rest of the sequence, Vayu (the 7“) oscillates 
with the other Tattvas of the 1st house like this: Rahu (Vayu, 7), 
Jupiter (Akasha, 1), Saturn (Vayu, 7) and Mercury (Prithvi, 1). As the 
Rishis use these Tattvas and Kendras as the foundation of the rules 
throughout Jyotisha, this may well have been their reason for this 
ordering. This grouping based on the tattvas requires the Lunar Group to 
be placed where they are known to be. 


Enmity pairs: If we look at the Nakshatra sequence in Figure 1 
and the two halves of the sequence either side of Mars, we see that the 
Moon is opposite Rahu and Mercury is opposite Ketu. In addition, Venus 
is opposite Saturn. This is shown by lines between them in the diagram. 
Thus all the Grahas not in the Dharma Trikona (the triangle in Figure 1) 


504 Yoga of the Planets 


can be put in pairs. We can see that this groups natural opponents. The 
Moon fights Rahu and Mercury fights Ketu. Venus battles Saturn because 
his coldness always threatens to ruin her love and friendliness. These 
pairs of opposites are indeed opposite in the sequence. 


This is the hidden implication in the story of Narasimhi. The 
tension between the pairs causes their energies to mix and any shaking 
can cause the results to exchange. E.g. The Venus lordship can become 
like Saturn. That leaves only the Dharma Trikona anchoring the whole set 
but Jupiter and the Sun are still linked like the other pairs. 


We can postulate more reasons. Putting the Moon next to the Sun 
is like Cancer being next to Leo. Putting the nodes opposite each other in 
the circle is also as one might expect As explained above, we are using a 
circle, as everything in }yotisha is a circle. This circle lets us shift Mercury 
from one end of the astronomical sequence (Mercury to Saturn) to the 
other end of the Nakshatra lordship sequence (Ketu to Mercury). 


Now it is clear that the sequence, which we know is correct, has 
as its root the Dharma Trikomaand the rest of the places are based on the 
oscillation across the Kendra axes and the juxtaposition or mirror 
positioning of mutual opposites or enemies. 


In this way, we have derived the sequence of the Vimshottari 
lords from Ketu to Mercury based on the observation of the relative 
speeds, the Tattvas, the mutual enmities and other supporting reasons, 
none of which require considering the lengths of the Dashas. 


SECRET OF TARA BALA, HLODEN IN PLAIN SIGHT 


In Vedic Astrology, we are very familiar with the Dharma Trikona 
in the Rashi chart (standard sign chart). It represents a core element, 
being the Ascendant’s trine. Of great importance is the discovery, hidden 
as ever in plain sight, of the Dharma Trikona in the Vimshottari sequence. 
At the centre is Mars just as it is the natural lord of the Ascendant in the 
Rashi chart, as lord of Aries. This key discovery unlocks the secret of the 
Tara Bala or star strength whose most important principle is that the 3"4, 
5® and 7* star from the Moon are challenging and even punishing places. 
‘Stars’ refers to the positions in the sequence of Nakshatras and their 
lords. 


We see that these are exactly the places of the Dharma Trikona if 
we place the Moon in the first place ruled by Ketu. Just as Aries is the 
natural 15* house for the Kala Purusha (the great Creator), Ketu’s is also 
His first star. Aries starts with Ashwini Nakshatra, which is ruled by Ketu. 
If the Moon is in Ketu’s star, then the 3°94, 5“ and 7% Nakshatras or stars 
are ruled by the Sun, Mars and Jupiter. 


Secrets of Vimshottari Dasha 505 


Why are the places of Dharma so difficult? By now many readers 
may have had an ‘aha’ moment and be ready to answer this. Following 
Dharma is difficult and demanding and if we fail, then punishment 
follows. On the other hand, success brings great rewards. This is 
discussed in detail in the section Secrets of the Tara Bala below. 


‘TILE VIMSHOTTARI DASHA PERIODS 


BALANCING THE TATTVAS AND DIRECTIONAL STRENGTH 


The Tattvas (elements) are Akasha (space), Vayu (wind), Agni 
(fire), Jala (water) and Prithvi (earth). The three Agni Grahas are Sun, 
Mars and Ketu and the two Jala ones are the Moon and Venus. Jupiter is 
Akasha and Mercury is Prithvi. Saturn and Mars are Vayu. 


These four groups are associated with the four Kendras or angles 
of the Vedic chart based on the direction in which they gain maximum 
directional strength, called Dig Bala. Jala is strong in the 4t house and 
Agni in the 10. As these two houses face each other, they form a group 
(G1 = 4 & 10). Vayu is strong in the 7" house and the others gain strength 
in the 1st house so they form another group (G2 = 1 & 7). The Dig Bala 
groupings are shown in Figure 3. 


In Figure 1, we can see the sequence and we note the grouping of 
Agni and Jala alternating in the first half of the sequence, including the 
central Jord Mars: Ketu, Venus, 
Sun, Moon and Mars. This is 
G1. 


Mer Jup 


The rest of the 
sequence alternates between 
Vayu and the others: Rahu, 
Jupiter, Saturn and Mercury. 
This is G2. 


Ist House 
Prithvi Akasha 


Sun 
Mars 
Ketu 


Moon 4th House 10th House 
Ven Jala Agnt 


THE PERIODS OF ‘THE 
DASHAS 


7th House 
Vayu 


Sat Rahu 


Each lord has a period 
in the Dasha. They rule our life. 
for a certain number of years. 
The lengths of the periods have 


Figure 3. Groups by Tattva proved a great mystery and no 


S06 Yoga of the Planets 


satisfactory explanation about it has ever been given, whether in the 
ancient or modern literature. However, the Dasha works very well, so 
well that many Western astrologers who take little interest in Jyotisha are 
still found using this Dasha. 


Its name is Vimshottari, literally meaning 120 years, the natural 
length of life according to the ancient sage Maharishi Parashara. 


The master key in what follows is based on a concept used in 
Mathematics or Physics. Jt is that of symmetries that may, in reality, be 
slightly broken. The whole universe started as a perfect symmetry of 
forces, which break sequentially allowing diversity to emerge. Here we 
are concerned with symmetries within groups, which are sustained in 
order to uphold the principle of the group but break slightly to 
accommodate the reality of life. The sages who created this system 
worked into it astronomy and the elements (Tattvas). They also included 
key social and psychological ideas, which provide the symmetry breaking. 
It works, as all these factors, which are natural to life, have been included. 


For example, suppose a = 10 andb = 11. We can safely argue that 
a = bas long as we allow the small difference to emerge at a later stage of 
the computation. It is, after all, approximately correct. They are naturally 
equal but allow a small difference to accommodate some required 
restriction of this world. Thus, we will derive the Vimshottari periods by 
identifying key symmetries and then allowing some to break by at most 1 
year, a limit chosen right at the start The reader will quickly recognize 
these symmetries and how the derivation of the periods was hidden for 
so long just because this method of approximate symmetries was missed. 


Pandit Sanjay Rath, myself and many others who have thought 
about this problem have noted that Rahu could be 18 years because of its 
rotational period (18.6 years). Some might give it 19 years because of the 
Metonic cycle of the eclipses. We could set this as one equation, which we 
shall write like this 


Ra = 18 (or perhaps 19) (E1) 


However, we will see later that we will derive Rahu’'s cycle 
without this equation! Even though we do not use this equation, it is 
interesting that Vimshottari Dasha does use 18 years and Astottari Dasha 
(see page 498) uses 19 years for Rahu. We cannot rule out that this was a 
factor in the original formulation of these Dashas. 


DERIVATION 


The symbol of the Graha is used here for the period of the Graha 
in the Dasha. For example, ‘Ra’ stands for the length of Rahu’s cycle. In 


Secrets of Vimshottari Dasha 507 


what follows, we define a number of symmetries, which allow us to write 
equations relating the Graha cycles to each other. When there are 
sufficient equations, we can solve them to find the result. Eventually we 
find that some adjustments have to be made so that the symmetries are 
broken by no more than one year and this is done on rational grounds 
based on simple psychological or sociological observations. 


The Rishis used integers so it is not necessary for us to consider 
rational numbers (fractions). Fractional relationships only emerge after 
the symmetries break. All the final results are still integers. 


Now, Pandit Rath teaches?3, from his ancient and distinguished 
tradition of Jyotisha teachers, that a defining characteristic of the 
Vimshottari Dasha is that 


Su + Mo = Ju (E2) 


This is based on the obvious truth that the Sun (father) + the 
Moon (mother) = Jupiter (the child). It also establishes an idea that a fire 
planet (naturally male) combines with the watery Moon (naturally 
female) to give a third Graha. As mentioned above, we have another 
triplet like this with an Agni Graha and the Moon, called the Lunar group. 
If we apply the same principle, we can write 


Ke + Mo = Ra (E3) 


In the same theme, we can combine Mars with the Moon and the 
natural consequence has to be Mercury. Mercury rules the earth Tattva 
and Mars is said to be the son of the Earth and represents the lords of the 
Earth. it is exalted in the cardinal Earth sign, Capricorn. Thus, 


Ma + Mo= Me (E4) 

Now we note that this heterosexual process has given us most of 
the Grahas in the second half of the sequence from those in the first half 
(Agni + Jala group). We are just left with the pair Saturn and Venus. The 
ancient texts say that Venus in a sign of Saturn can indicate a non- 


reproductive relationship. Thus, the Moon is not involved and it follows 
naturally to propose 


Sa = Ve (E5) 
TATTVA AND DIG BALA SYMMETRIES 


As discussed above, there are four Kendras in the chart and each 
group of Grahas associated with a Tattva (element) has directional 


23 Sanjay Rath, Course on the Jaimini Sutras, 2007. 


508 Yoga of the Planets 


strength (Dig Bala) in one Kendra or direction. These groups are the most 
basic symmetries. Thus, we can assert that all the Grahas that have Dig 
Bala in the same direction (Kendra) have the same Dasha length ora 
simple multiple: 


Agni/fire: Su = Ma = Ke (E6) 

Vayu/wind: Sa = Ra (E7) 

Jala/water: Ve = 2 x Mo (E8) 

Prithvi/earth and Akasha/space: Ju = Me (E9) 


Naturally we ask, why not Ve = Mo? This is because we know 
that fire + Moon = wind (E3) and Sa (wind) = Ve (E5). That means Ve must 
be greater than Moon to accommodate fire. Therefore, the Moon and 
Venus cannot be equal. 


The second pure relationship after one times (equality) is two 
times. As the Jala Tattva planets are the only pure female energy planets 
and are responsible for harmony and balance, they cannot have a broken 
symmetry like a fraction. While x1 has a male energy, x2 has a distinct 
female energy. Together in strength they give great wealth (2™ house) 
and they are both strong in Taurus (24 sign), In fact, Venus rules Taurus 
and the Moon has Taurus as its MulaTrikona, as well as exaltation, so they 
are effective co-lords. Philosophically, they exemplify the power of two or 
duality. Together they ensure multiplication. 


It should be noted that this principle of the Grahas grouped by 
Kendras having equal periods can be derived from jaimini Upadesha 
Stitras 3.1.9, He says ‘samG@nah kalah’. Both equal and times two can be 
taken from ‘samd@nah' as it means symmetry or evenness. ‘Kalah' means 
time or period. 


| to | i | Allahoutthe mother 
2 32 | Relationships and children 
70 


1 
3 
5 
| 70 | 120 | Retirement 


Table 1. Naisargika Dasha 


| Planet_| 
[Mo | 
[Ma 
Me 

ips == ot 


Secrets of Vimshottari Dasha 509 


Before the next step, it is important to review the Naisargika 
Dasha. It is taught by Parashara2*, and is arguably the most foundational 
of all the Dashas. Naisargika means natural. This is because the sequence 
is the same for everyone and is based on normal life experience (Table 1). 


Obviously, the brief descriptions given in the table do not do 
justice to the phases of life, but it is easy to see how the Rishis assigned 
the planets and the years. Typically, society draws its leadership from 
those who are 50 and older. They have largely completed their family 
responsibilities and thereby learned the needs of society, It is clear that 
old age sets in on average after 70. These two numbers, 50 for the Sun 
and 70 for Saturn are a core Jyotisha concept. 


The Agni plus Jala Grahas form one natural group, G1. The rest 
form another, G2. The first contains the Sun, the light of all, and the 
second, its natural opposite Saturn, being furthest away and dimmest. If 
we take the numbers for the Sun (50) and Saturn (70) from the 
Naisargika Dasha, which add up to 120, we can assign them to their 
respective groups. 


So let us set 
G1 = Ma+ Mo+ Su + Ve + Ke = 50(E10) 
G2 = Ra + Ju+ Sa + Me = 70 (E11) 


Thus, we have the 120 years of the total Vimshottari Dasha. Now 
let us see if we can derive the individual lengths using E10, E11 and the 
other equations; First, we note 


G1-G2=50-70 

G2-Gi1= 20 

Writing this out we get: 

(Ma + Mo + Su + Ve + Ke) —- (Ra + Ju+Sa+M) = 70-50 

and reordering to help show the use of our other equations gives: 
(Ju - Su - Mo) + (Ra - Ke) + (Me - Ma) + (Sa- Ve) = 20 

Thus, substituting using E2, E3, E4 and ES 

0+Mo+Mo+0=20 

2 x Mo = 20 


28 Brhat Parashara Hora Shastra, Dashadhyaya. This is Chapter 48 in the Girish 
Chand Sharma edition from Sagar Publications. 


510 Yoga of the Planets 


Thence, Mo = 10 and, using E8, Ve = 20 
‘THE SYMMETRY BREAKS 


This result and our equations are enough to derive all the cycle 
lengths of the Grahas. We wil} find that Ve = Sa = Ra = Me = jp = 20 and 
the rest all equal 10. If we put these numbers back into E10 and E11, we 
find that some of the numbers are too large. This is because some of the 
symmetries are actually only approximate, even though closely so. 


We must now apply some considerations as the Rishis did in 
creating the Naisargika Dasha. This involves some natural sociological or 
psychological concepts that are true over the ages. 


We have said Sa = Ve but Saturn must be less than Venus or 
infertility would be as common as fertility and mankind would have died 
out long ago, so 


Sa=19 


Rahu is the Graha of disagreement. He will never agree exactly 
with anybody so his length must differ from all others. Thus, from E7 we 
get 


Ra=18 


Now we have the length of Rahu without need for E1. However, if 
we had used E1, we would have immediately got Sa = 19 as Ra = Saand Sa 
= Ve and we are only adjusting any symmetry by at most one year. 


This means 

Ke = Ra —- Mo = 18- 10 =8 + or- 1, so Ketu could be 7, 8or 9 
From E10 it follows that Ma + Su + Ke = 50 ~ Ve - Mo= 20 
By E6. Ma, Su and Ke must not differ by more than 1. 


Thus, the only possible solutions are Ke = 7, Su = 7, Ma = 6 or Ke 
=7,Su=6,Ma=7 


So Ketu is fixed at 7 and we are left with a choice of Sun or Mars 
being greater, which by E2 and E4 indicates a choice between Jupiter and 
Mercury being greater. We have already noted that Venus must be 
greater (in length) than Saturn to represent procreation predominating 
over asceticism and infertility. Now we ask, what predominates in our 
ordinary lives as a species - wisdom (Jupiter) or material prosperity and 
intellectual activities (Mercury)? Whatever we might like to think, the 
answer is obvious. Mercury must be greater (in length) than Jupiter. 


Secrets of Vimshottari Dasha 511 


Thence, Su = 6 and Ju = 16 from E2 and Ma = 7 and Me = 17 from 
E4. 


We can note many more small arguments for this choice. Jupiter 
is related to Ganesha whose number is 4 and 16 = 4 x 4. The natural age 
of maturity of Jupiter is 16. In the Naisargika Dasha, Jupiter’s age is 32 = 
16 x 2, Either Su and Ju are both even or Ma and Me are even. The other 
pair must be odd. 7 and 17 are prime numbers while 6 and 16 contain 
multiples of 2 and 3 or 4 and thus have more harmonies in them. The Sun 
and Jupiter are more inclined to harmony than Mars and Mercury. 


We have now arrived at the correct list of periods. In the process, 
we have discovered that the numbers are based on core astronomical! and 
astrological principles leading to symmetries, which in some cases break 
to reflect the realities of this world. 


Thus, the Vimshottari Dasha is deeply grounded in the reality of 
life so it is not surprising that it works so beautifully if one understands 
how to use it. Hopefully, after reading this and the next section, this 
knowledge will move one to another level. Without a proper grasp of the 
Tara Bala or star strength, key factors will be missed. | am giving some 
important points here. You will get more by carrying these thoughts 
further. 


SECRETS OF TARA BALA 


Tara Bala or Dinam is the study of the count of the Nakshatras 
from the Moon (primarily) in their cycles of nine. As there are 27 
Nakshatras, there are 3 cycles of the 9 lords around the zodiac. The 
natural lords are the Vimshottari sequence starting from Ketu. The 
principal concept that astrologers rely on is that the 3™, 5% and 7 
positions are ‘bad’ and the rest are mainly ‘good’. Each position was 
labelled by the ancients with a Sanskrit name that gives the clue to the 
importance of that Nakshatra but these are often blindly applied without 
any thought about what the ancients hid in these names. Our study of the 
sequence has revealed secrets, hidden in plain sight, but not discussed 
anywhere. They are indeed vitel for the study of this area. That is the 
existence of the Dharma Trikona in the Nakshatra sequence and the 
mutual enmities between the other pairs of opposing lords. 


The Dharma Trikona stands out from the clashes of the other 
lords and !ooks like a haven of justice and peace but then we observe that 
this group coincides perfectly with these ‘bad’ positions. Starting from the 
star lorded by Ketu, there is the Sun associated with the 3% which is 
called Vipat, Mars with the 5" that is called Pratyak and jupiter with the 
7 that is called Naidhana. Now we shall see how this may be understood: 


512 Yoga of the Planets 


Vipat is to strike down or kill or fly away like arrows. It is the power of 
the king to destroy those who violate the dharma. It is ruled by the Sun, 
the Graha that represents the king. The Sun also represents wealth. 
Therefore the Nakshatra in this position is critical for acquiring or losing 
wealth, as the ruler judges. 


Pratyak is backwards or the western direction. It will force you to retreat 
if its natural lord Mars thinks you have violated the dharma. Everyone 
retreats from Mars because he advances holding terrible weapons. That is 
why the 5" is said to represent obstacles. The implication is that if the 
Nakshatra in this position favours you, then you are unstoppable. This 
Nakshatra, counted from our Moon, makes us inclined to fight or compete. 


Naidhana is death. Jupiter is fiva, which is life, so this Nakshatra position 
is the highest test. Are we fit to live on this planet Earth? Only Jupiter, the 
significator for the wise who sit in judgment on us when called to do so, 
can determine this. To live a long and satisfied life, this 7! Nakshatra 
position must favour you. 


Let us look at the other places considering them as pairs of 
conflicting energies, as we used to derive the sequence. If we sit in one 
place, the lord of its opposite is not far away. This is another great truth 
overlooked by most astrologers. 


1 and 9: janma and Paramamitra. Janma is birth and Paramamitra is 
the fruit or one who grants us the fulfilment of our desire according to 
what we deserve. Mercury and Ketu are the lords. They fight as Mercury 
represents our physical being, which we gain at birth, and all the 
possessions we acquire, and Ketu is the end of it all, final liberation, 
where all the possessions are renounced or forcibly removed. 


Everything we acquire comes with a contract for its loss. We 
write wills but beyond that there are the unseen threads of karma. A man 
says ‘this is my land and I will die to defend it’. The mountain and the 
river scarcely smile. They were enjoying this place long, long before that 
man came and will soon see his departure. 


In particular, the 9" Nakshatra represents peak achievements. 
That is why, in the 3°4 cycle of nine stars, it is called the Abhishekha 
Nakshatra. It is where we may be anointed (Abhishekha) but we should 
not forget that the peak is the peak. 


2 and 8: Sampat and Mitra. While Vipat is to fly apart, Sampat is to fly 
together. It is a meeting or encounter. In short, people and all kinds of 
things can come to us here, some that we want and others that want us 
for whatever reason. Mitra is the friend who helps us. Sampat is ruled by 
Venus and Mitra by Saturn. Exactly, as we saw in the previous pair, the 


Secrets of Vimshottari Dasha 513 


lords appear reversed. We think of Venus as the friend and Saturn as the 
bringer of karma. Whatever we have desired will come to us one day and 
someone or something will bring it. By the time it comes, we may well 
have forgotten asking for it and may not want it. 


It is like the English king who became annoyed with the saintly 
head of the English Church. In a fit he said, ‘Who will rid me of this 
troublesome priest?’ So four of his knights went to the Cathedral and 
killed the priest. Soon the king was faced with rebellion and had to do a 
great penance to atone for this terrible sin. 


It is worth noting that this mechanism of fulfilment of desire is a 
law of nature and how fast it functions depends on the purity of the mind 
of the desirer. Most of the people teaching ‘get what you want quick’ 
seminars are relying on this without any knowledge of the mechanism or 
the consequences. They advertise Venus but she always arrives with 
Saturn. 


4 and 6: Kshema and Sadhana. Kshema is to prosper, be at ease or fee] 
secure. It is ruled by the Moon. Sadhana is achieving the goal and is ruled 
by Rahu. Rahu is the power of manipulation or exploitation so in seeking 
the Moon ~ mental ease - one almost invariably resorts to Rahu. Thus, 
one extracts from the Earth or others and in the process gains what one 
imagined would yield security - money, property, supplies, etc. but lose 
one’s mental peace due to the sins committed consciously or 
unconsciously along the way. The Vedic sages had a solution to this. They 
recognised that even a righteous life involved some unintended harm to 
small creatures and others. Once a year they would do a serious fast for 
two weeks to atone for these sins. Thus, they attained peace of mind 
without the shadow of guilt. 


Looking at the whole sequence we now understand how these 
oppositions function and how we experience them in the stars not 
associated with the dharma. In the dharma stars, we see the great 
blessings and challenges we will face. There are no free rides. 


THE PURPOSE OF LIFE 


What is my life’s purpose? This is a common question for 
astrologers. There are many approaches to answering this question and 
for each person there is an answer unique to them. The Vedic seers had a 
very straightforward approach to the general problem, They defined four 
principal purposes of human life and this concept is to be found in every 
corner of Vedic Astrology. It allows us to see the tendency of any 
particular time in life. 


514 Yoga of the Planets 


The four Ayanas or paths of life are Dharma, Artha, Kama and 
Moksha. Dharma is what sustains life. It therefore represents everything 
we do to sustain our life. This includes our work but is much more. All we 
do to care for and sustain our family is included. Then, there is the 
community and the nation so every form of social service and national 
service is also a part. 


Artha is all material possessions and gain. Kama is our recreation 
and relationships in the sense of fulfilling our desires. The desire for 
intercourse is Kama but having a child to extend one’s line is considered 
Dharma. Moksha is the end of things. Final liberation is the ultimate 
Moksha but any kind of zero, like death, is a part of it. 


The standard astrological chart with 12 signs of the zodiac is 
divided into four trines for these four Ayanas. The Dharma trine or 
Trikona dominates because its key point is the Ascendant, which is the 
most important point in the chart. We have identified this trine in the star 
lords of the Vimshottari sequence but as we are dealing with a group of 
nine Grahas rather than 12 signs, there cannot be four groups of three. 
However, we have identified four groups, the first of which, associated 
with the pivotal or central lord, we have identified with Dharma. The 
argument for this is easy. The lords are the same three Grahas as rule the 
Dharma Trikona in the standard chart of the signs and they stand in a 
central way in the Vimshottari sequence as they do in the regular chart. 


Let us see whether we can associate the other three groups with 
the other three Ayanas. If we start from the pivot point, Nakshatra 5, as in 
the chart, then the next group should represent Artha. That is stars 4 and 
6: Kshema and Sadhana. This is easy because we can see that these two 
represent material wealth and the means of acquiring it. 


After the Dharma stars 3 and 7, the next group should be Kama. 
This is stars 2 and 8: Sampat and Mitra. Again this is quite obvious as, not 
only is one of the lords Venus, but these stars represent the acquiring of 
desired objects and those who help us acquire them. 


Finally, there is Moksha and the final group. This is stars 1 and 9: 
Janma and Paramamitra. One of the rulers is Ketu, the Moksha Karaka, 
and these stars represent the start and end of life. The other ruler is 
Mercury who rules the earth element and thus the physical structure. The 
birth Nakshatra is associated with the first Dasha or period of life, on 
average about 13 years, which is the key period for the development of 
our physical bodies. 


Until the discovery of antibiotics and other medical advances, 
child mortality was quite high and surviving this first Dasha was a 
challenge. This is the period when the physical structure is being built up 


Secrets of Vimshottari Dasha 515 


and is still very vulnerable. Again at the end of life, the physical structure 
is disintegrating. Clearly, this competition between building (Mercury) 
and destroying (Ketu) the physical predominates here. 


Not only have we seen that these groups have a clear connection 
to thesc Ayanas but we can see that the Dashas show us how the typical 
or natural purpose of life changes with time. Whatever star our Moon 
falls in, the big picture is the same, only the flavour changes. That means 
we can identify phases of life associated with each Dasha or period. 


Below is a table of the nine Dashas and the natural modes of life 
that they oversee with some implications. Imagine each Dasha is about 
12-13 years on average. The Lord is the ‘natural’ ruler counting from the 
first Nakshatra in the zodiac. If the Moon is elsewhere, then, counting 
from its Nakshatra, different lords take over as representatives of the 
natural lords, filling their role but in accordance with their own nature. 


Period ford_Piyana_fommentary 

em lacie Moksha |Building up the physical and surviving the dangers of 
childhood 

(ea asa cee Puberty and mating, learning what we want to do, 

first work 

ae ie Bharma |Main occupation (Sun) and children (Jupiter) 
Shift from dependence to one’s independent life 

4 IMo-Ra [Artha | Wealth accumulating and beginning of leadership 


5 Ma harma |Ambition and leadership 
Midlife crisis, focus can shift from family 
responsibility to personal enjoyment 
Ra-Mo |Artha |Wealthpeakingand final phase of leadership 


Dharma |Sharing one’s knowledge with the coming generation 


and, often, passing away hence called the Naidhana 
es 


or death Nakshatra 


Disease and decline (Saturn), frustration or devotion 
to God (Venus) 
The collapse of the physical 


We can see clearly how the Dasha lords work in pairs (except for 
Mars) as the Vedic texts often hint. One comes from the creative Agni- 
Jala/fire-water group; the other comes from the Vayu-Prithvi- 
Akasha/wind-earth-space group. It is like the creative energy and the 
product combining to make life fruitful. 


516 Yoga of the Planets 


BROKEN FLOWERS 


Every Nakshatra has four Padas (quarters) or Navamshas (one 
ninth of a sign of the zodiac). These four are also related to the four aims 
of life as well as the four Kendras and are like four petals of the root 
Chakra, the seat of our survival as independent entities. 


In the zodiac, nine Nakshatras coincide with four signs and this 
means that three Nakshatras overlap sign boundaries. It is like they are 
‘broken’ by the change of signs and some astrologers call them ‘broken 
flowers’. These three Nakshatras are exactly the Dharma Trikona that we 
have discussed above. The first, of the Sun (e.g. Krittika), splits 1 to 3. For 
example, the first Pada of Krittika is in Aries and the other three in 
Taurus. The second, of Mars (e.g. Mrgashirsa), splits 2 to 2 and the third, 
of Jupiter (e.g. Punarvasu), splits 3 to 1. The splits tell us that these 
Nakshatras are related to pivotal changes in our life where our integrity 
as well as our survival is tested. Dharma is, after all, the means of our 
survival and prosperity. 


The first, of the Sun, is about wealth and the regulation of our 
lives as the Sun represents both wealth and government. The Sun forces 
us to obey its rules and can punish us for deviations. If this is strong and 
well connected to us as a person, it can make us very wealthy or 
powerful. 


The second, of Mars, is about obstacles and our efforts to 
overcome them. If it is strong and links to what represents us, then we 
can crush any opposition if we chose to fight, which depends on the 
planets involved. If it is weak, then we can get into fruitless fights. 


The third, of Jupiter, is all about what we think of as our Dharma, 
what sustains our life and our world. Some people work for charities and 
others for criminal gangs. There are many ideas about what is Dharma. 


We can understand these broken flowers more deeply by going 
to the next level. Each Nakshatra's set of four Padas can be defined as 
Dharma, Artha, Kama and Moksha, in that order. In each broken flower, 
the break occurs between two of these purposes of life. Thus, this causes 
a focus on those issues. The Sun is about Dharma and Artha since the split 
is after the first Pada, Both of these are natural topics for the Sun and 
things can go well if the Sun and this lord, counted from the Moon, is well 
placed in the Vedic chart. This transition is about a major shift in life. 
Dharma shifting to Artha is moving from receiving the care, guidance and 
support of parents to taking up the responsibility of our own family. 


Mars is about Artha and Kama, materia! wealth and desire since 
the split is in the middle of the Nakshatra. These areas easily lead to 


Secrets of Vimshottari Dasha 517 


fights. This Nakshatra is thus the cause of war. The problem is not really 
about wealth but the energy of desire that wants more, which usually 
involves taking from somewhere. The money that comes from our work is 
from Dharma and the Artha we acquire from it is healthy and legitimate. 
We acquire things because we need them with money that we earned by 
providing some service. However, desire either leads to taking what is 
not rightfully ours or, frequently, a feeling of frustration and various 
kinds of misery due to the lack of what we think we want. Artha shifting 
to Kama is a time of change when the family responsibilities are passing 
and we tend to think more about our own enjoyments. We may have a 
‘midlife crisis’ as we move towards retirement. 


Jupiter is about Kama and Moksha since the split is after the third 
Pada. Moksha can make us go towards wisdom, which is Jupiter's higher 
energy. Its lower energy is greed and this arises from the energy of desire 
found here. This star makes us seek what is our dharma or wisdom but 
whether this takes us up or down depends on the status and placement of 
the lord. Since Kama is shifting to Moksha, the indulgence or enjoyment, 
which developed after the last shift, now has to be replaced by the search 
for truth. This means taking to a form of renunciation or simply dying and 
moving to another life on another plane before perhaps returning here in 
another body. 


These secrets were given to us by the Grace of the Divine from July 7 to 
August 15, 2015 in Virginia, USA 


EPILOG 


In this book, some of the ancient wisdom has been presented ina 
modern format. The sets of mantras range through the various energies 
and influences of the Vedic planets. We have seen how particular mantras 
can be identified for any individual. When | first looked up a mantra for 
someone I was amazed how apt it proved. For someone's Venus, it gave 
‘Wearing a necklace of seeds (Aksamd@ia)'.. The person said, “I have asked 
that | be buried with a thousand such necklaces, I love them!” Venus is 
about what you love. 


In this final chapter, there are some wonderful clues to 
interpreting the extraordinary Vedic system of planetary cycles. | wish 
that all the readers enjoy and benefit from these gifts of the ancient sages. 


518 Yoga of the Planets 


INDEX 


Actor or dancer, 99, 200, 457 

Aditi, 18, 21,27, 246, 379 

Aditya, 27 

Advaita, 23 

Al-Biruni, 79 

Anahata, 78 

Aquarius, 7, 27, 30, 156, 212, 243, 322, 
324, 344, 364, 387, 396, 455, 496, 
497 

Ardra, 172,414 

Aries, 7,27, 52, 109, 121, 127, 140, 149, 
156, 161, 221, 222, 240, 243. 302, 
368, 386, 387, 424, 433, 455, 496 

Ashwini, 386, 424, 442 

Atharva Veda, 221 

Atma Karaka, 25, 108, 137, 359, 383, 
387, 396, 451, 498 

Atman, 17, 31, 48, 67 

Ayurveda, 36, 39, 120, 124, 137, 146, 
186, 187, 211, 253, 267, 274, 279 

Bhagavad Gita, 30, S0, 53, 96, 120, 160, 
221, 222,248 

Bharadwaja, 145, 146, 329 

Birds, 18, 19, 22, 236 

Brahma Sutras, 420 

Business, 49, 56, 78, 112, 133, 182, 185, 
186, 198, 201, 202, 238, 243, 306, 
324, 330, 355, 496 

Cancer, 7, 27, 82, 83, 84, 97, 101, 102, 
106, 108, 109, 112, 170, 212, 214, 
217, 219, 236, 322, 399, 416, 444, 
450, 496 

Capricorn, 7, 27,30, 109, 112, 119, 120, 
124, 156, 214, 243, 324, 330, 451, 
497 

Charaka Samhita, 36 

Chariot, 12, 17, 35, 50, $3, 106, 131, 228, 
304, 305, 372, 433 

Democracy, 83, 138, 336, 355, 435 

Dhamavati, 457 

Diti, 18,22, 379 

Durga, 81, 111, 195, 364, 365, 379, 406, 
428 

Eclipse, 31, 81, 209, 389, 390, 391, 419, 
420, 430, 435, 444, 459, 498 

Einstein, 88, 209 

Fauitlessness, 82 

Fear, 43, 52, 73, 74, 81, 98, 114, 136, 
138, 140, 144, 172, 198, 201, 213, 
214, 288, 289, 298, 332, 333. 342. 


343, 355, 361, 366, 367. 370. 371, 
373, 375, 378, 379, 380, 382, 392, 
393, 394, 403, 405, 408, 416, 424, 
426, 440, 443, 448, 461 

Gaia, 453 

Ganesha, 70, 136, 159, 317, 339, 442, 
449,451,455 

Garuda, 18 

Gemini, 7, 27, 150, 172, 181, 205, 206, 
207, 236, 368, 369, 396, 496 

Great Bear, 83, 218, 227 

Hair, 25, 32, 137, 147, 259, 454 

Hanuman, 148, 150, 157 

Immortal, 25, 54, 56, 60, 89, 227, 273, 
274, 312, 318, 319, 335, 353, 366, 
393,407,459 

Indra, 26, 27, 87, 146, 158, 180, 246, 
247, 300, 310,311 

Jaimini, 102, 180, 280, 364, 392, 433, 
436 

Jyotisha, 8, 10, 11, 12. 13, 23, SS, 79, 
180, 206, 211, 220, 232, 243, 253, 
264, 272, 298, 305, 315, 321, 325, 
328, 329, 364, 365, 394, 401, 408, 
434,500 

Kala Chakra, 318, 321 

Kashyapa, 18, 21, 22 

Kilaka, 145 

Krishna, 12, 30, 50, St, 59, 86, 108, 130, 
156, 179, 190, 196, 205, 207, 213, 
214, 217, 219, 248, 326, 328, 368, 
372,379, 384, 398, 404, 416 

Krituka, 83, 127, 152, 246, 368, 442 

Kundalini, 32, 35, 37, 72, 88, 106, 119, 
123, 128, 129, 132, 161, 179, 321, 
367, 375, 378, 379, 393, 414, 423, 
426, 427, 434, 447, 450, 451, 454 

Lakshmi, 27, 65, 69, 96, 299, 311, 344 

Lalita, 19,95, 252 

Leader, 25, 53, 122, 136, 154, 201. 213, 
250, 282, 295, 297, 355, 357, 396, 
454 

Leo, 7, 8, 25, 27, 31, 32, 41, 101. 121, 
123, 137, 144, 217, 303, 364, 399, 
455,497 

Logic, 151, 203 

Mahabharata, 18, 130, 134, 219, 221, 
306, 328 

Mandala, 33, 87,113, 156, 157, 348,425 


Manu Smriti, 71, 86, 165, 232, 269, 299, 
351 

Meditating, 44, 81, 205, 273,275, 344 

Milarepa, 169 

Mughal Emperor, 73 

Matadhara, 37, 113, 119, 146, 309, 382, 
516 

Naga, 179, 366, 375, 378, 450, 452 

Narada, 159, 352 

Obama, 93, 123, 136 

Ojas, 39, 52, 87, 274 

Panchakarma, 267, 279, 356 

Paramatman, 17 

Patanjali, 77, 85, 180, 226, 253, 278, 
390, 408 

Physics, 22, 23, 46, 47, 48, 420 

Pitta, 120, 124, 137, 187 

Planting, 80 

Polite, 108, 177, 199 

Prana, 120, 335 

Pranayama, 323 

Pushya, 82, 83, 84, 106, 218, 227, 236, 
246 

Rama, 10, 21, 64, 86, 95, 108, 157, 176, 
180, 205, 219, 231, 257, 373 

Ramakrishna, 92 

Ramana Maharishi, 51, 72, 75, 123, 127, 
263,372 

Reincarnation, 175, 398 

Rig Veda, 12, 23, 33, 35, 38, 84, 87, 130, 
220, 221, 245, 255, 284, 408, 414, 
425 

Rohini, 71, 83, 115 

Rudraksha, 279 

Sade Sati, 318, 330, 333 

Sama Veda, 84, 96, 245 

Samadhi, 62, 88, 297 

Sapta Rishi, 83, 227 

Saraswati, 65, 146, 171, 304, 461 

Satisfaction, 17, 18, 44, 45, 77, 133, 272, 
286, 296, 316, 344 

Scorpio, 7, 27, 140, 149, 161, 170, 322, 
344, 364, 455, 497 

Service, 66, 67, 81, 142, 183, 250, 274, 
333,349, 445 

Shakespeare, 172 

Shiva, 10, 11, 12, 20, 30, 38, 46, 47, 49, 
59, 64, 65, 73, 84, 96, 97, 101, 111, 
125, 127, 130, 152, 158, 159, 190, 
192, 209, 211, 213, 214, 218, 291, 


Index 519 


294, 317, 318, 321, 323, 324, 338, 
340, 350, 353, 366, 372, 385, 394, 
396, 412, 413, 427, 442, 456 

Shodashi, 88 

Shri Chakra, 11, 38, 158 

Shri Sharada Devi, 92 

Shri Shivabalayogi, 73 

Soma, 70, 87, 89, 90, 97, 166, 172, 195, 
204, 221, 222, 227, 235, 274, 393 

Soul, 8, 17, 22, 24, 25, 28, 40, 43, 47, 48, 
55, 59, 69, 72, 80, 86, 101, 125, 243, 
151, 163, 173, 175, 187, 192, 204, 
210, 215, 218, 223, 238, 263, 270, 
286, 294, 302, 304, 315, 318, 322, 
346, 350, 351, 356, 367, 396, 401, 
407, 411, 419, 425, 427, 437, 460, 
498, 499 

Spica, 221, 424, 427.441 

St Francis, 93 

Subrahmanya, 127, 128, 442 

Svadhisthana, 78 

‘Tapas, 31,152 

Tapasvi Maharaj, 73 

Taurus, 7, 24, 27, 71, 83, 115, 127, 207, 
219, 241, 279, 307, 364, 368, 369, 
396, 409, 416, 496 

Theatre, 46,99 

Trishati, 116 

Tulsidas, 95 

Unified Field, 23, 46, 48, 378 

Vasistha, 83, 154, 246 

Vedanta, 23, 40, 174, 258,303 

Vimshottari Dasha, 8, 13, 310, 375, 498 

Virgo, 7, 27, 181, 186, 197, 199, 206, 
207, 268, 286, 289, 396, 402, 497 

Vishnu, 18, 27, 30, 47, 50, 58, 111, 144, 
159, 178, 179, 180, 190, 192, 194, 
196, 203, 205, 242, 294, 299, 324, 
335, 338, 342, 343. 350, 366, 373, 
375, 382, 393, 437 

Vyasa, 77, 131,316 

Witness, 17, 46, 294, 353, 384 

Wu Wei, 63 

Yajur Veda, 223 

Yoga Siatras, 19, 74, 77, 85, 143, 180, 
199, 226, 254, 265, 278, 291, 329, 
390, 408, 434 

Yoga Vasistha, 171, 273, 461 

Yogi, 35, 157, 161,378, 427 


