THE YOGA OF THE PLANETS 


KETU, THE SOUTH NODE 


Awnorew Foss, PuD 


TaBLe OF Contents 


Dedication 

How this Book will Help You 
Find your Personal Mantras 
The Journey 


Notes on Pronounciation from the Transliteration 


Hymn in Honour of the Planets 
Ketu, the South Node 


The Mantras of Ketu in Transliteration 
Secrets of Vimshottari Dasha 
Sources and Acknowledgements 
The Artists 


About the Author 


HOW THIS BOOK WILL HELP YOU 


This book has many uses. In itself, it is a meditation. There is no need to know 
anything about Vedic Astrology to enjoy and benefit. There are insights into astrology but the 
main focus is enlightening the consciousness and providing a rebalancing of the energies 
represented by the planets. This will happen automatically as one reads the mantras and their 


commentaries. 


There are 108 mantras for each planet used in Vedic Astrology. Each mantra is a 
descriptive name converted to a salutation and used for meditation or chanting. For example 
‘om Santaya namah’ means ‘salutations to the peaceful one’ and is based on the name santa 
(shaanta) which means peaceful. Reciting the mantra develops understanding for the quality 
embodied in the name and can help mental clarity and spiritual development. In the transla- 
tion, the first mantra of each planet is fully translated. After that, just the names are translated 


leaving ‘Salutations to’ understood. 


The Vedic planets are normally listed in the order of the days of the week. They are 
the Sun, the Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus and Saturn plus the two eclipse points. 
These are the Lunar nodes called Rahu (the North node) and Ketu (the South node). The Vedic 
‘planets’ are often referred to as ‘Grahas’, the Sanskrit word which means ‘graspers’, as they 
appear to guide and control our experiences. 


For the first time, these mantras are listed with translation and commentary. Even if you 
only read the commentaries, you will get some of the benefit. If the planet is weak or afflicted 


in your life, then this acts as a remedy. If it is already strong, this helps to enliven its full value. 


A common way of using these mantras is to recite the set of 108 for the planet one 
chooses’. For example, one could recite the mantras of the Sun on Sunday mornings. The 
next chapter, Find your Personal Mantras, will explain how to go beyond this and find out 


which of the mantras will especially enliven your personal chart. 


The mantras of the more malefic planets, such as Mars, Saturn, Rahu and Ketu, natu- 
rally contain some names, which describe the more challenging side of the Graha. These help 
us to understand certain behaviours and this can be remedial. For these names, it may be 
better to contemplate the deeper meanings rather than simply repeating them. For example, 
Rahu is said to be cruel. This association with cruelty arises out of fear. Fear is deeply seated 


in survival issues. 


Contemplating the mantra may help one get in touch with the source of the problem, 
so it can be alleviated. Loving an injured heart can be the basis of real change. This applies to 


our self or another. | do not recommend using the more challenging names as regular practice 


mantras and | certainly do not recommend you ask another person to do them even if they 
come up when you do the calculations described in the next chapter. On the other hand, | 
have found listening to the sets of 108 names has been beneficial for my clients. 


If chanting one or a set of mantras, | suggest you start with 
om gam ganapataye namah 
to invoke the pure state of mind and end with 
om Santih Santin Santih 
meaning ‘Om peace, peace, peace’. 


For convenience, | am publishing the mantras of the nine planets of Vedic Astrology in 
nine separate eBooks. Put together, the length was too great but | am combining them all in 
the printed version. To find the eBook for another planet, visit YogaOfThePlanets.com. There 
you can also find information on the audio of the recitation of the mantras. | have on occasion 
given these to clients to listen to when that planet was afflicted in their chart with very posi- 
tive results. 


FIND YOUR PERSONAL MANTRAS 


A great secret being released with this book is how to find the best mantras for you 
from the list of 108. This secret has been closely kept by a few Indian Astrologers and | am in- 
debted to my teacher, Pandit Sanjay Rath, for enlightening me about this. 


It is very simple. The reason why there are 108 mantras for the planets as well as such 
lists for the deities is because the zodiac is naturally divided into 108 segments. 108 is said 
to be the number of Shree, the Goddess of prosperity. Astrologically, it is our whole world. 
For example, the name of a new born child is often given based on the Moon’s place in these 
divisions. 


It is not only the Moon that is important. The Sun is very important and all the other 
planets of Vedic Astrology can be key. It all depends on our chart. Whatever the chart, doing 
the mantra for the position of a planet can be very beneficial. It will resonate with us and thus 
has extra energy. 


There are a number of approaches for finding a powerful mantra for you or for a client, 
student or friend. The first | describe requires no astrology and the others are connected to 
the actual positions of the planets. For those with an interest in Vedic Astrology, this can be- 
come quite detailed as we drill down on the relationship between different planets. Therefore, 
a chapter on advanced applications is to be found in the printed version of the book. Here we 
give the easy astrological applications. 


However you arrive at a mantra, please pay attention to the caveat mentioned in the 
previous section. 


Method One, the Random Number 


Picking a random number may sound an unlikely idea but it is something that many 
prognostic systems employ, including the Vedic Astrology method of answering questions. 
This technique often gives clear insights. If you are calm and quietly focused, then nature 
talks to you and one way of facilitating this is picking a number. There are really two situations, 
finding a number for oneself and finding one for another. For example, if you are a Yoga 
teacher whose student wants a mantra or someone sharing with a friend. 


Suppose you want a random number for yourself and do not want to imagine a number 
out of 108. You can get three single digit numbers by picking numbers you see. One way is to 
open a book and take the final digit of the page number and do this three times. For example, 
suppose you open a book at random three times and get pages 21, 143 and 79. Pick the final 
digits which would be 1, 3 and 9. Write down these digits to form a number 139 and adjust 


to the desired range by subtracting 108. In this example, 139 — 108 = 31. Of course, you can 
come up with many alternate ways of getting a number. 


My astrological software Shri Jyoti Stare gives a random number. In the Data Entry 
screen, click ‘Enter Number’. If you are asked about ‘Replacing the current chart...’ click Yes 
or No. In the next screen, make sure the Range is set to 108 and you will see a random num- 
ber is given to you. 


If there is another person involved, one can ask them for a number. This often works. 
What we want is a number between 1 and 108. If the person gives us a number larger than 
108, we can keep subtracting 108 until we get a number in the desired range. For example, if 
they say 250, then subtracting 108 twice (216) gives 34. However, we may feel that the person 
is interpreting our answer to mean a single digit number only or perhaps knows the system 
we are using too well and may be biased towards certain numbers. Then we can ask for three 
single digit numbers as in the method described just above but we can write them down in re- 
verse order. This is just a suggestion, in reality we can use any scheme that we like. 


A separate app for this book is planned, which will do both random number and astro- 
logical calculations (information will be posted on YogaOfThePlanets.com). 


Method Two, Using the Astrological Chart 


The following is how to find the number for your natal Moon (or any planet). First, find 
out the sidereal position from any software, for example Shri Jyoti Star. In the current version 
7, it will also give you the mantra number next to the planet glyphs in charts. The planned app 
for this book will also give the number (see YogaOfThePlanets.com) but it is easy to do it by 
hand if one has the planet position. Examples are given below. 


In the table following, look up the planet position and find the number. Note, the table 
is at the end of this section and it is quite narrow to facilitate reading on narrow screens. If you 
still cannot see the whole width of the table, rotate your device to Landscape or pinch in until 
you can see the whole table. 


For example, suppose the planet is at Virgo 5 degrees. 5° is between 3°20’ and 6°40' 
so look in the second column of numbers under 6°40’ in the row for Virgo. You will find the 
number 47. Then look in the book for the mantra numbered 47. In the main text, the number 
is given at the start of the commentary, after the mantra. In the lists at the end, the mantra fol- 
lows the number. For the Moon, the mantra for 47 is ‘om muktidaya namah’. 


This is the simplest application of the rule where the number is counted from the start 
of the zodiac. This can be called ‘God’s view’ as the beginning of the zodiac is the beginning 
of the chart from the point of view of the Creator. Thus, it is very powerful. However, there 
are other views. There is the count from the Moon, which gives the social or personal view. 


There is the count from the Sun, which is like the view from our soul. Another important 
count is from the Ascendant, which relates to the body and health. Reciting the mantra we 
get from this count may help our health but if we feel sick we should always consult a medi- 
cal professional. 


We can make a count from any of the planets as the starting point. In Jyotisna (Vedic 
Astrology) there are systems of planetary cycles (periods), especially the famous Vimshottari 
Dasha system. All Vedic Astrology software like Shri Jyoti Star give these cycles too. Even 
some Western Astrology software or online software give them. For example, you might be 
running a Venus Moon cycle and subcycle. That means you are in the major cycle of Venus 
and the minor cycle of the Moon (called a Bhukti). In this example, one can count from Venus 
to the Moon and use the mantra from the Moon list. 


For example, let us find the mantra for the Moon from the perspective of the Sun. Let 
us suppose the Sun is at 8°10’ Leo and the Moon is at 4°30’ Sagittarius. First find the number 
for the Sun from the table as we did above, which is 39, and then the number for the Moon 
from the table which is 74, as 4°30’ is greater than 3°20’ and less than 6°40’. Now subtract 39 
from 74 and add 1, which gives you 36. Then find mantra 36 in the mantra list for the Moon. 
We add 1 because if both planets have the same number, the answer has to be 1, there is no 
mantra for zero. If the subtraction gives a negative value, just add 108 to the result. 


Now you know how to find key mantras for your chart in general and for your Dasha cy- 
cles. | recommend you start with ‘God’s view’ as this can be considered the most important. 


(The table is on the next page) 


Degrees up to 


Sign 3° 6° 40% “1380 “46? <20% 93% BE --30° 
20’ 40’ 20’ = 40’ 20’ = 40’ 

Aries 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 

Taurus 10. ~=«11 12 13 14 15 16 #17 ~ 18 

Gemini 19 20 21 22 23 24 2 26 27 


Cancer 28 29 30 ~~ 31 32 33 34 35 36 


Leo 37 38 39 40 = 41 42 43 44 45 
Virgo 46 47 48 49 50 51 52 5354 
Libra 55 56 «57 58 59 #60 61 62 63 


Scorpio 64 65 66 67 68 69 70 71 72 
Sagittarius 73 74 15 7 77 78 79 ~=©680-~—St—s«éO83211 
Capricorn 82 83 84 85 86 87 88 89 90 
Aquarius 91 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 
Pisces 100 101 102 103 104 105 106 107 108 


THe AsTROLOGICAL Houses 


In various places in this book you will find reference to houses or places from some 
important personal marker such as the Ascendant or the Moon. The simplest and traditional 
way of understanding this is in terms of the 12 signs of the zodiac, Aries, Taurus, etc. If 
the Moon is in Taurus, then Taurus is the first house or place from the Moon. Gemini is the 
second. Aries is the twelfth, etc. One only has to count round by signs. The Ascendant is in 


the sign rising on the Eastern horizon at the time of birth. 


THE JOURNEY 


On March 3rd 1995, | entered the sacred and tranquil valley surrounding the small 
village of Kollur. | had fostered a desire to visit here for eight years since a friend told me about 
it. | did not know why | felt this connection but when | was finally able to travel to India | set 
my heart on reaching that place. It seemed very special and | must have feared going straight 
there in case my energy was unprepared. | chose to go first to Tamil Nadu on the opposite 


coast and to the great temple of Rameshvaram. 


Rameshvaram is on the spit of land opposite Sri Lanka. This is the place Shri Rama 
worshipped Lord Shiva before launching his campaign to recover his wife Sita from the 
demon king. To cross the ocean, his army of monkeys and bears built a bridge or causeway 
across the ocean. This was many thousands of years ago but, amazingly, the remains of a 
causeway to Sri Lanka are still visible in satellite photos. According to temple records, Shit 
Rama’s bridge was passable being completely above the sea until destroyed by a cyclone in 
1480 AD. 


From Rameshvaram, | visited the great temple of Minakshi and thence to the very tip of 
India, Kanyakumari. This place has remarkable temples especially that of the Virgin Goddess. 
| rose and went at 3:30 am and was almost alone in witnessing the bathing of the Goddess in 
milk. It was the Full Moon day. A little later | did homage to the shrine for the Navagraha and 
received a distinct blessing. Prior to that | had done some study of Jyotisha but had received 
no authority from any Guru or other source to study and practice. This was a most unex- 


pected Grace. 


From Kanyakumari, | travelled up the Kerala coast visiting Ashrams and temples until 
| came to Kollur. It was a great moment, though for no obvious reason at all. Kollur is home 
to the famous temple of Devi Mookambika, the Goddess of the mouth. It is said she grants 
blessings related to the voice and the arts. Most evenings, artists from all over India come to 


perform before her. They sing, dance and play instruments. 


At the time | knew nothing about this temple. | did not know that astrologers from all 
over South India come here to pray and do penance for Vak Siddhi, the power that whatever 
one says proves true. After all, people expect an astrologer to have this power. While, in rare 
cases, it is possible that a person is born with this, generally it only arises after long and sin- 
cere spiritual practice. This is why Vedic Astrology, Jyotisha, is primarily a spiritual discipline 


and one should seek a guru or gurus to guide one’s spiritual and intellectual development. 


The essence of success in an earthly endeavour is the Grace of the Goddess and for 


each aspirant there is some form that appeals to him or her and which can grant success. 


There are rules for finding this form but ultimately it is very personal. | should make it clear that 
talk of gods and goddesses does not conflict with the monotheistic view because the Vedic 
view is that the One takes whatever form we desire or can be approached as purely formless 
if that is our path. 


The worship of the Goddess in India is, at its peak, related to the Shri Vidya and the 
Shri Chakra. The great sage and teacher Adi Shankaracharya installed a Shri Chakra under 
the deity in the Mookambika temple. After some time in Kollur, | came to know that he also 
installed a Shri Chakra at the top of the highest mountain nearby where the root shrine of 
the Goddess is to be found. Part of the pilgrimage is to walk to the top of this mountain. It 
is about 12 miles or one can take the bus part of the way and walk the last 3-4 hours. | had 
many extraordinary experiences on this mountain as well as in the temple, which | will write 
about elsewhere. 


While | was staying at the temple, somehow | conceived of this book. It seemed to me 
that the sets of 108 names of the Grahas (planets) were important and used by astrologers 
but | could find no trace of a translation or commentary. So | started making notes. When | 
could not understand a word, | discussed it with my friend UmaShankar Jois who is one of the 
distinguished priests at the temple. He studied Jyotisha with a great Guru though he passed 
away before my friend’s studies were complete. UmaShankar is a great expert in the remedial 
measures and he felt | had some knowledge on the analysis of charts so we spent a lot of time 
discussing Jyotisha together. 


I stayed at Kollur for more than 40 days, as is the custom, and then went for Shivaratri 
in Varanasi. This is the greatest festival for Lord Shiva and Varanasi is considered the city of 
Shiva, and is one of the most profound places to celebrate it. As | was about to leave Kollur, 
| went to the temple to take Her leave to go. The priests put me at the front during the Arti 
(ritual waving of lights before the shrine), which is the peak of the evening worship. Then | got 
on the bus to go to Bangalore where | could catch a train for the North. 


As it happened, the conductor of this bus was part of a ring of thieves who stole the 
luggage of innocents like me. | arrived in Bangalore without anything, all my notes were gone. 
Still | managed to continue my journey and reached Varanasi, the great city of Shiva, at 4 am 
on Shivaratri. | washed and went straight to the temple having no luggage to concern me. 
Standing in the queue | noticed that | was the only male wearing traditional clothing. There 
was a guard on the door and they often turn ‘tourists’ away. He looked me over for a while 
and then enthusiastically said ‘om namah Ssivaya’ and waived me in. 


The next year, | returned to Kollur with another notebook. | started by writing down all 
that | remembered and naturally found that my understanding had improved over the year and 
quickly was ahead of my previous work. When | left Kollur after another 40+ days | had just 


a few names which | could not decipher. | visited Prof. Ramachandra Rao in Bangalore who 
was one of the two people that | found who had published the lists of the names. We had an 
interesting discussion. He was a very great scholar. Unfortunately, he has now passed away. 
Travelling through India | met many good scholars who kindly gave me their opinions so the 
meanings became clear. Since then, from time to time | wrote my small commentary. It re- 


flects many stages in my own spiritual life. | hope you enjoy it. 


In 2007, | visited a small house a few miles north of the great Konark temple. This 
temple, though now partially ruined, was perhaps India’s greatest temple to the Sun god. It 
is built like a giant chariot. Some of the carvings are now in the British Museum including 
the large carvings of the nine Grahas (planets). The Konark temple stands near the beach in 
the North Eastern part of India’s V shape so is one of the first places to see the rays of the 
rising Sun. Konark is some 20 miles north of Puri where the great Jagannatha temple of Lord 
Krishna is to be found administered by the Shankaracharya of the East. He is charged with 


maintaining the Rig Veda, accepted as humanity’s oldest recorded wisdom text. 


About 500 years ago, the great spiritual teacher Chaitanya Mahaprabhu resided here 
and the lineages derived from him are still very widespread today, such as ISKCON. He had 
five ‘sakhas’ or friends, as they were called, one of which was Swami Achyutananda. The 
Swami was initiated by the great teacher at an early age and went on to become the King’s 
astrologer, a noted author of over 200 books and an enlightened sage. He also founded 13 
schools in the region. These taught various sciences and several were dedicated to Jyotisha. 
When he was leaving his body, he promised to remain in a ‘shunya’ form. Shunya means the 
void and it is a term he explained in great depth in one of his books. It does not refer to mere 


nothingness but to a profound state of Being. 


He kept his promise and even today you can go and consult him. That is where | was 
going. There is a small shrine and next to it are the quarters of a pandit who keeps and 
interprets a set of copper plates (tamra poti). These plates only contain some drawings like 
the shape of a lotus, but when you enter there with a question in your mind, the answer 
appears written in ancient Odia (the local language 500 years ago) and the pandit reads them 
for you. If you look, you can actually see the writing appear. | went there with several friends, 
all of whom were students of Pandit Sanjay Rath who is the last remaining person carrying 
the knowledge of the Jyotisha schools founded by the Swami. In effect, we had joined his 
lineage. The answers we got were remarkably pertinent and insightful. We were all given 
mantras. | later talked to a colleague who has taken over 40 people there and he said no one 


had ever been given a mantra. 


The Swami told me to finish my book. | noticed that when | did the mantra, | would 


work more on this text. | hope he forgives me for the long time spent in fulfilling his instruction 


but perhaps | or the time was not ripe before now. This year (2015) marks the 20th year since 
| started and only this year did | make the important discovery about the Vimshottari Dasha 
which is published in this book. In the derivation of the Vimshottari Dasha cycles or periods, 


the great significance of 20 years is revealed. 


The name of the Sun temple is from Kona + Arka. Arka is a name of the Sun and 
Kona means trine. In Jyotisha, this indicates the Dharma Trikona, the sustainer of life, which | 
have written about in many places in this book and is so important in the interpretation of the 


Vimshottari Dasha. 


NOTES ON PRONOUNCIATION FROM THE TRANSLITERATION 


In the transliteration, there are marks called diacriticals that aid correct pronunciation. 


In Sanskrit there are long and short syllables. The long ones are to be sounded for 
twice as long as the short ones, even longer is OK. Vowels with a line over them like ‘a’ and 
double vowels like ‘ai’ are all long. ‘h’ (h with a dot under it) is pronounced like ‘ah’, that is 
with aspiration. It is often pronounced as ‘ahah’ but this is not recommended for mantras as 
it effectively adds another syllable and the syllable count of a mantra is important. ‘s’ with an 


acute accent is like ‘sh’. For example, ‘Sukrah’ is pronounced ‘shukrah’. 


Consonants or sibilants with a dot under them like t or s are retroflex. For example, t is 
pronounced as the ‘t’ in Tom. You curl your tongue back and strike your palate. ‘t’ on the other 
hand is a dental sound. ‘th’ is ‘t’ with some aspiration as are all the other syllables that have 


an ‘h’ like ‘bh’, ‘dh’ and ‘gh’. You just blow a little when saying the consonant. 


The ‘r’ such as in ‘brhat’ is a vowel in Sanskrit pronounced like the ‘ry’ in jewelry. ‘c’ is 
pronounced as ‘ch’, as in ‘change’. In the commentary, | usually use ‘ch’. If ‘ch’ appears in the 
transliteration, then it is like ‘chh’, which is ‘ch’ with some extra aspiration. 


Please visit a Sanskrit learning web site or teacher for more detailed advice. One good 
site is learnsanskrit.org. 


The Devanagari (Sanskrit) support on a PC is excellent but may not be so perfect on 
mobile devices. Older Kindle devices and other eReaders may not show it at all. One can al- 


ways check against the transliteration, which should be correct. 


Please note that the first time part of a mantra is mentioned in the following text, it is 
italicized. Sanskrit terms in the commentaries are often transliterated but not always accord- 
ing to the more rigorous scheme. Sometimes the more usual form is followed using the stan- 
dard English alphabet. 


HYMN IN HONOUR OF THE PLANETS 


so Th TUNA Aa: 


om gar ganapataye namah 


Sa HURRAH AM: IM YTHE Sera 
TEM Yr: Walghda: Fs Wer: WA HU Fadil 


brahma muraristripurantakarl bhanuh Sast 
bhiUmisuto budhasca | 
gurusca Sukrah Sanirahuketavah sarve grahah 


Santi kara bhavantu || 


Brahma (the Creator), Murari (Vishnu, the Sustainer), Tripurantakarin (Siva, the slayer of the 
demon Tripurasura), Bhanu (the Sun), Shashin (the Moon), Bhimisuta (Mars, the son of the 
Earth), Budha (Mercury), Guru (Jupiter), Shukra (Venus), Shani (Saturn), Rahu and Ketu, may 


all these Grahas be peaceful. 


KETU, THE SOUTH NODE 


30 chad AH: 
om ketave namah 


1. Salutations to the ray of light. 


Ketu is one of the eclipse points where the Sun, Moon, and Earth align. It is the South 
a Hlighlighters'*-S2s+2-*ar careers rector scorers ceros tse trcs rer encreees cer atecresrstencnss ht oar tsesstiecee renter ensicenc 
node of the Moon. This is the seal where the Moon crosses the le and starts to move to 


Pe ee 


Looking up at the sky, if we see two planets close together it is natural to make the 
inference that the planet higher in the sky, closer to the pole, is somehow dominating the one 
below it. In the Northern hemisphere, this means, the planet that is more to the North. This is 
why, in Vedic Astrology, the planet to the North is usually considered the winner in ‘planetary 
war’, a phenomenon when two planets come within one zodiacal degree of each other. In 
simple terms, two planets that are very close together compete and the one to the North wins, 
unless the lower one is exceptionally bright (like Venus). 


The Sun represents the soul or consciousness. The Moon represents the mind. When 
3 Highlighters 
the Moon starts to rise above the Sun’s path, then it is as if the mind is gaining ground 


over the soul. The Sun “Fepresents our true knowing, which is is a function of something more 


When the Moon moves to the South, it is as if the inner knowing is gaining ground over 
the worldly tendencies. There is more core honesty. We can enjoy many things but funda- 
mentally we know that we do not need them. This realization is a part of liberation and this is 
indicated by Ketu. Ketu is the significator of enlightenment. This astronomical explanation is 
my way of remembering the roles of Rahu and Ketu. It does not mean liberation is reversed in 


the Southern hemisphere. 


Ketu is an eclipse point but it is not about darkness even though it may look like a black 
hole. A black hole is something into which one falls and, at a certain point, passes beyond 
any chance of return. Scientists used to think that black holes were black, but then Stephen 


Hawkings (author of A Brief History of Time) showed that they actually glow. In the universe 
we find some extraordinary phenomena — light shows on the grandest possible scale — arise 


due to black holes. 


The picture below is of a jet streaming out from the vicinity of a black hole in the centre 
of a galaxy. The jet is many times bigger than any galaxy and is pure Ketu (photo from the 
Hubble Space Telescope, courtesy of ESA/NASA). 


The Brahma Sutras, the great Vedantic text, end with a short aphorism that is repeated 


twice, ‘anav;ttih Sabdadanavyttih Sabdat’. It means that ‘from here there is no return, this is the 
teaching’. The Brahma Sitras describe the stages of final enlightenment — the various states 
or experiences along the way. Only when one passes beyond that point of no return, is one 
truly out of the field of relativity just like a particle crossing the event horizon of a black hole. 
Beyond that, ordinary Physics breaks down. It is utterly beyond our comprehension. 


It is interesting that we are now discovering black holes all over the place, more thana 
hundred within our own galaxy. There is an enormous one at the centre of our own galaxy (in 
early Sagittarius), but many others are scattered here and there. Even a smaller one is heading 
our way though it is not expected to swallow the Earth. | grew up with the real possibility of a 
black hole being only a theoretical idea. Now we find that we are living in close proximity to a 


whole family of them. 


xo CY AH: 


om sthulasirase namah 


2. Having a massive head (Shiras). 


Sthula can mean big, dense and coarse. This name could indicate stupidity, but also 
that state where the experience of the head has become a sense of infinity, as if our small 


head is vast. Both of these states are forms of headlessness. 


This name may seem surprising at first but Ketu is the planet of surprises. Something 
that is windy and tends to reduce everything to nothing would be expected to be rather slight, 
even invisible. It is just like the black holes. The hole itself is invisible but in addition to the 
glow from the periphery, it produces the cosmic fireworks like that seen in the photo above. 
These are a result of the massive gravitational force around the black hole that is constantly 
swallowing matter. The matter may disappear but the hole gets heavier bending space itself 


in a very intense way. 


This name is also related to Ketu representing mistakes. Someone who makes 
3 Highlighters +**%- s2+52e-sceesoderscsctasesccicte teseccctatve cnestasinececctretssecccncsinshasicciertes's cess ssecctnessestoie'ss 
mistakes is called thick-headed. Ketu causes mistakes by making us headless. This effect 


has numerous expressions from the fundamentalist who is headlessly following good or bad 
advice, to the saint who has made the ultimate mistake, from the point of view of the materi- 
alists, in disregarding everything of the world. 

Rahu is the head and Ketu the headless. Thus, in the extreme case, Rahu represents 


3. Highlightersi*==*29¢>2-ic"< os sine ren raiecenes ic ope pales So Sasete ectiv ete Sree eas seater ates ose pecst nos ie ss ndees ors sSoect 
those who start every sentence with ‘I’ and Ketu, those who speak of themselves in the third 


person. 


ao TSA AA: 


om siromatraya namah 


3. Headless. Literally reaching as far (Matra) as the head (Shiras). 


The implication of names 2 and 3 are that up to the head (Shiras), he is measureable 
(Matra) and beyond that he is immeasurable. Those marked by Ketu function in the world but 


are psychically vast. 


We can continue with the black hole analogy as it is more than an analogy. Ketu is a 
massive body without any face. There is no point asking for mercy, it is a one-way ticket. On 
the other hand, the black holes at the centres of galaxies sustain all the life in that galaxy 
rather as the Sun does for our solar system in that they have been a key part of the structur- 


ing of the galaxy and contributing to the distribution of valuable elements. 


Nothing biological could survive an approach to the Sun but it cannot live without 
it. The Sun’s radiation is a direct consequence of its gravitational field. The nuclei in it are 


crushed together causing nuclear reactions and producing radiation that, sufficiently diluted 


by distance and filtering, sustains life. A dying Sun, if heavy enough, can become a candidate 
for a black hole. Attracting more and more matter, the massive gravitational field can support 
a far greater living whole. It is rather like the way dying organic matter merges with the earth 


and sustains the living. 


The Rahu - Ketu axis is related to the spinal column. Ketu is the tail but also the whole 
3 Highlighters -------+--22-+2 00sec ere ese cece eee cee cece cece ese ren cece eee cen ce ee ee sten secs cee tc essen sete ns eeceessensceece ey 
column up to the head. This axis in the chart can be used to see if the person will suffer from 


This name also means the greatest peak. Nothing is greater than infinity. Ketu ‘repre- 
S Highlights 


sents the: ultimate achievement, ‘liberatio™ or Moksha in Sanskrit. In the previous name we 
discussed mistakes as a part of headlessness. Most problems can be traced back to a lack 
of full attention or full awareness. Strangely, only when we lose our ‘head’ can we experience 


full awareness. 


Xo eqatepaad AH: 


om dhvajakrtaye namah 


4. His form is a flag or mark (Dhvaja). Causing (Akrti) a mark. 


Wherever Ketu is found in the astrological chart, a flag is raised. Something out of the 
usual is indicated there. The word Ketu is also used for comets, meteors and omens. They 
signify a portent of some unusual phenomena for good or ill. We love them and we hate them. 
Something unusual will always attract a crowd but we may try to avoid the unexpected for 
fear it threatens our existence. Ketu is associated with great anxiety but it has its own incom- 
prehensible attraction. PP eet ae a ge eg ee ae re 

When one person’s Ketu connects with a personal marker, like the Moon, in another’s 


chart, they often feel drawn to each other despite the obvious potential for distress. 


A serious mistake is said to ‘raise a flag’. Flags also denote royalty and important 
places like shrines. If Ketu sits in the fourth house, denoting place of residence, one may live 


in a palace or may raise a flag or obvious signboard outside. 


34 AAT E 4a AH: 
om navagrahayutaya namah 


5. One of the nine seizers (Nava Graha). 


The planets seize or control our lives or so it appears. Most literally, this name means 
that Ketu is that power that arises if they all join together (Yuti). There is a story of the Mother 
Goddess. The Gods gathered to invoke Her to defeat the demonic forces that were harassing 


the world. All their powers merged together and from that Her form arose. 


She is the cosmic Shakti or power and Shakti is associated with Mars. Ketu is said to 
be like Mars, so Ketu is also profoundly about the Shakti. Ketu makes everything very subtle. 
When conjoined with Mars, it refines that power, which can awaken the Kundalini. Even on its 


own, Ketu is capable of wielding any kind of power and producing any kind of result. 


Another meaning of this name is that it can be separated from the other eight planets, 
as in the Chara Karaka scheme (personal significator scheme) and in Astottari Dasha, one of 
the most important Dasha systems that lay out the planetary periods in a life. | will explain this 


Dasha in a forthcoming book. 


so TeTEHISHUIAaEAAT A: 


om simhika'surigarbhasambhavaya namah 


6. Born (Sambhava) in the womb (Garbha) of the demonness (Asuri) Simhika. 


Simhika was a demonness. Rahu is born from the semen of a great Brahmin saint 
and the womb of a demon. Thus, he is both divine and demonic in his action. Simht means 
a lioness. The lion symbolizes rulership, which is the power that controls life and death. The 
Sanskrit word for lion or Leo is Simha. It is derived from the word Himsa, injury and violence, 
by areversal that gives it the power to protects its pride (family and people) (See also Rahu 2). 


x0 Telit AH: 


om mahabhitikaraya namah 


7. Causing (Kara) great anxiety (Maha Bhiti). 


Rahu is said to cause Bhaya or fear. Ketu causes Bhiti or anxiety. Bhiti is alarm or 
dread. It is what you feel when you see an omen or Sign of approaching danger. We will see 
that Ketu represents the end of things. When we are invested in something continuing, as we 
are in normal life, anticipated endings can be frightening like the iceberg in front of the Titanic. 


As Mark Twain said, “Courage is resistance to fear, mastering fear, not the absence of fear.” 


30 Faqauya Aa: 


om citravarnaya namah 


8. Of brilliant or variegated appearance (Varna). 


This is the first of many names of Ketu containing the word Chitra. Chitra also means 
bright, clear, spotted, diversified, different, surprising, wonderful or strange. As a noun, it 
means a picture or painting, a brilliant ornament, an extraordinary appearance, wonder, the 


heavens and a type of leprosy, because of its visible appearance. 


Chitra is one of the 27 lunar mansions or Nakshatras, the Vedic constellations. Ketu is 
profoundly connected with this Nakshatra. Rahu is said to be born or of the nature of Ashwini, 
the first Nakshatra (Rahu 44). Naturally, when Rahu is arising at the beginning of Ashwini, 
Ketu is in the middle of Chitra where we find one of the most beautiful and bright stars on the 
zodiac which we call Spica. Indeed, many astrologers mark the zodiac by taking this as the 
180 degree point. There is no obvious star at zero degrees of Aries. Like Rahu it is quite dark. 
We have seen that Ketu acts as a flag. That is why Spica is taken as the flag that marks the 
zodiac. 


According to Surya Siddhanta, the most ancient of the extant Vedic astronomical texts, 
this is where Ketu was when the solar system began. This means that the astronomical com- 
putations of the planetary and Lunar nodal positions start from a moment when this situation 
prevailed. The centre of Chitra is associated with Shakti, who manifests the universe and op- 
posite is Shiva, the unmanifest. That is why there is no visible star at the beginning of Ashwini. 
In the context of the teaching of Shri Pada Shri Vallabha, the first Avatar of Lord Dattatreya, it 
is explained that the power of any star is maximum exactly 180 degrees from it. He took birth 


in Chitra on the day sacred to Ganesha. 


This is also the way it is in the structure of the Rig Veda, the most fundamental of the 
Vedic texts from which everything else emerges. The other Vedic texts and even the whole 
universe appear from the Rig Veda as a commentary on it. The Rig Veda starts with a verse 
that is said to contain the whole teaching. Half way through the first Mandala or circle, which 
is also said to contain the whole, traditionally there is located an unmanifest verse (Avyakta 
Sukta), which was to be recited silently. Thus an outer expression is matched on the opposite 
side by an inner one. While the outer one is obvious, the texts tell us that the inner repetition 


is vastly more powerful in its effects. 


Interpret this as you will; the zodiac is a Mandala or circle and it moves from an 


emptiness with great potential to a manifest fullness and then back to where it started but 


with the wisdom of the journey. 


0 SUS cera AH: 


om Sripingalaksakaya namah 


9. Like a beautiful auspicious tawny coloured eye. 


The use of the words Shit Pingala strongly points to the connection with the Pingala 
Nadi, one of the three subtle channels that run up the spine. Pingala relates to the Sun and 
the right nostril. The Ida is therefore associated with Rahu and is related to the Moon and the 
left nostril. 


Pingala also means fire, a kind of owl, a kind of snake or a famous treasure. Aksha 
means eye but is also knowledge, an axis or axle, and the soul. It is easy to construct descrip- 


tions of Ketu from all of these. Ketu is an Agni or fire element Graha. 


Some mantras activate the Pingala and some the Ida. That is why, when you are 
initiated, you may be given two and they must be done together. However, the mantra given 
by a saint should activate the central channel, Susumna, and can be safely done on its own. 


30 WSs aHmans AA: 
om phulladhumasakasaya namah 


10. Having the appearance (Sakasha) of a great cloud, smoke or a meteor extending across 
the sky (Phulla Dhima). 


Phulla can also indicate horripilation. This can be due to an exciting or frightening 
omen like a meteor. The onset of awakening when the Kundalini rises can have this effect. 
Ketu’s planetary cycle lasts for seven years. During that time many unexpected things 


SMighlighters ss 2225." aS sede ies SoS arsine ease sca wes tn na teG ates ser tcesesn (cas ante saclecie seas aaa ae stassesce cea psecG 
may dates and we may receive various kinds of offers. While these may look POS: we 


a ee eee eee ee ee en ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee eee ee eens 


Even hough Ketu signifies enlightenment and can give profound flashes of it, Ketu’s 
cycle can make it hard to meditate in a regular way. It is perhaps more about attention to the 
profundity Ketu signifies than repeating a mantra or other practices. 


a0 Tene ya AH: 


om tiksnadamstraya namah 


11. Having terrible teeth (Tiksna Damstra). 


This makes them terrifying. Teeth are for killing prey and devouring food. He devours 
whatever comes near. The teeth also make the food digestible and thus capable of nourish- 
ing. The fear that arises is thus based on a misunderstanding of the true value of his presence. 
The part of us that is to be eaten objects but that is not what we are, just what we identify with 


out of ignorance. 


Xo Welaua Au: 


om mahodaraya namah 


12. Having a large (Maha) belly (Udara). 


This is also a name of Lord Ganesha and has connections to Ketu 45. The large belly 
can indicate a vast or unlimited capacity as experienced when the consciousness touches 
infinity. It also indicates great power as the belly is related to the third Chakra of power. This 
name enlightens one if one is frightened by the last name. Due to his power and capacity, 
Ketu can give any amount in any way of anything. He is the inner power of the great and the 


wise. 


Xo Thala A: 


om raktanetraya namah 


13. Red eyed (Rakta Netra). 


This is like Mars. It also could indicate a Yogi. It is said in the yogic texts that the eyes 
of a Yogi are red, black and white. | have seen this in the eyes of a great Yogi. Maybe they 
have more blood flow in the head as some research has suggested and that expands the 


blood vessels. 


A more profound view is that the eyes of a great soul naturally shine. Rakta means 
impassioned. The eye is the gateway of the heart. A heart on fire with truth shows in the glow 


of the eyes. Ketu can excite desire as it activates the Kundalini Shakti and that can initially en- 


ergize the second Chakra. This also puts passion in the eyes, though of a different kind. 


Xo Faye 4a: 


om citrakarine namah 


14. Causing (Karin) clarity or wonderment (Chitra). 


As we discussed above, Ketu is deeply associated with Chitra Nakshatra and its won- 
derful star Spica. He, like Mars, gives mental clarity and can help with conceiving abstract 
notions or forms. By reducing whatever it touches, he can also reduce the noise in the mind 
and give rise to true inner silence. It is said in the Shiva Sutras (|. 12) ‘vismayo yogabhimika’ 


— the stages of Yoga, inner union, are a wonder. He brings these about. 


30 TH AH: 


om tivrakopaya namah 


15. Having intense anger or ardent passion (Tivrakopa). 


Also acute disorders, endless morbid irritation and more such meanings. This is part 
of his reducing process. As mentioned above, he can excite strong passion. This can be ex- 
tremely positive if properly focussed. It takes ardent passion to achieve the greatest things. 


xo Hers AA: 
om mahasuraya namah 


16. The great (Maha) demon (Asura). 


The feminine form of this name is used for Mother Durga because she killed the great 
demons. When Ketu is under feminine influence in a birth chart by association with the Moon 
or Venus, then She may be propitiated to help with any difficulties we are having with love or 


our emotional life. She will help us overcome our ego, and thus attain true wisdom. 


30 HiHvSly AA: 


om krurakanthaya namah 


17. Having a wounded (Krira) throat (Kantha). 


It was cut by Lord Vishnu as explained under Rahu 4. Ketu restricts expression 
especially in association with Mercury or the second or third house or its ruler as all these are 
connected with communication. It can also mean having a fierce or cruel voice. While Krira 
almost always has a negative connotation, it can also mean formidable and Ketu has the 
ability to make magic out of anything. If Ketu is associated with communication and we can 
get over any anger issues due to a sense of being wounded, then his magic can give us a spe- 
cial power of speech. 


Another version of this name is Papakantaka meaning a sinful impediment or thorn. 


Xo Haass Aa: 


om krodhanidhaye namah 


18. The receptacle of anger (Krodha Nichi). 


This is how we tend to respond to restriction. Ketu restricts strongly and that can lead 
to a sense of frustration. Frustration is the receptacle of anger. If we feel frustrated, we should 
try to relax inside of it because the combinations that give rise to frustration in a birth chart do 
not go away. Temporary feelings of frustration can come due to planetary transits that pass 
quite quickly, but they also last as long as they last. Nothing is gained by struggling with them. 
We may feel that the problem is due to some other person, the government, or many other 
things, but it is helpful to note that other people in a similar situation are not always feeling 
the same way. Anger will make us ill if it persists so, for our own well-being, we need to find a 


way to let go. This is what Ketu wants because our liberation is in letting go. 


Letting go is not easy as long as we imagine that there is something to be gained 
from not letting go. The Yoga Sitras tell us that letting go, called Sarnyama, is exactly the 
technique for fulfilling desire. Thus, both liberation and worldly fullfilment come from letting go 
and yet we hang on and remain frustrated. Ketu’s teaching | is that whatever we think, try doing 
the opposite. This is explained in the Jaimini Upadesha Sutras. eee ee 


om chayagrahavisesakaya namah 


19. He is distinguished (Vishesaka) by being a shadow Graha (Chhaya Graha). 


Ketu is an invisible point that shows itself in the form of a shadow when the Sun and 
Moon align. That shadow, allows us to see sights which are otherwise invisible (see also Rahu 
31). 


So Tecaera AH: 
om antyagrahaya namah 


20. The last (Antya) Graha, the ninth. 


He indicates the end, and thus Moksha, the end of the ego and the complete letting 
go of all identification. Some astrologers call Ketu the most malefic because he is the end. 
However, that is only frightening for that which is coming to an end, the illusion of the individ- 
ual as the ‘doer’. When that illusion has ended, everything continues endlessly. Ketu has no 
quarrel with anything of the world but in the phase of our hanging on and resisting, everything 
becomes fair game for sacrifice. Whatever we are identifying with can be taken away to show 


us what is real. 


Xo HSIN AH: 


om mahasirsaya namah 


21. Who has a vast (Maha) head (Shirsa). 


He will not be pushed out of the way. The most massive bodies in the universe are 
black holes. As discussed and illustrated above, it has now been found that there are enor- 
mous black holes at the centre of all galaxies including our own. Their masses are millions 
or billions of Suns but they are invisible except for the extraordinary Ketu-like effects created 


around them. 


Ketu is the significator for Moksha, liberation. The primary characteristic of that is 
infinite consciousness. Normally we associate the head with consciousness and the crown 
Chakra. This is where infinity is imagined to reside and is just above the top of the head. The 


state of transcendence is like one’s head having gone to infinity. It is truly vast. 


Rahu is the head of the demon and Ketu is the trunk. So the Ketu experience is being 
headless. This can mean mindless behaviour or the state of Moksha where the head, the 
individuality, has been replaced by infinity. In this case, we become Maha, great. That is why 


saints are called Mahatma, great souled. 


On a more mundane level, Ketu signifies the elite especially royalty whose ‘head’, or 
influence, is unusually large. 


ao GAN AH: 


om suryaraye namah 


22. The enemy (Ari) of the Sun (Sarya). 


As Ketu eclipses the Sun, it acts like an enemy. The Sun is our vitality and Ketu can 
wear away at it. On the other hand, the real beauty of the solar corona is only seen when an 
eclipse occurs. 


When one feels eclipsed, something less obvious may be revealed. Those with Ketu 
on the Ascendant or with the Sun live feeling perpetually eclipsed. However, they fascinate 
others in certain ways. The glory of the Sun is not for the Sun to enjoy. What we are is for 
others, not for us. Naturally letting it shine as it will, brings wonderful good to us and to others. 


Se Tet TH: 


om puspavadgrahine namah 


23. The seizer (Grahin) of the Sun and the Moon or seizing that which is blooming or flowering 
(Puspavad). 


His tendency is opposite to the flowering one. He is like a whirlpool or vortex which 
crushes or squeezes everything falling into it so that it becomes finer and finer. This refining 
process is what allows us to directly experience the subtle levels of creation and the Supreme 
Self. 


Ro ACStATA AA: 


om varahastaya namah 


24. One hand (Hasta) grants blessings (Vara). 


This name promises us that his role is not just damaging. If we give him our respect, he 
can grant anything we desire. 


Xo ATH AU: 


om gadapanaye namah 


25. Having a mace (Gada) in the hand (Pani). 


Like many deities, Ketu is holding weapons symbolizing his role. The Gada is a special 
type of mace. It was a very heavy weapon and symbolized exceptional strength. Mars 
(name 74) also carries a Gada and Ketu is said to be like Mars. The Gada is associated 
with the Southern direction, ruled by Lord Yama and associated with Mars. Both get direc- 
tional strength in the South and both have a special connection to the awakening of higher 


consciousness. 


Meditation and other spiritual practices help to avoid the fall of this weapon that can 


manifest as disease and other shocks. 


xo Faqageqaag Aa: 


om citravastradharaya namah 


26. Wearing (Dhara) beautiful and surprising clothes (Chitra Vastra). 


Chitra is a picture but it also suggests something that catches the eye. Anything 
dazzling, that has a ‘wow’ factor like movie special effects and outrageous fashions, exotic 
jewelry, etc., is signified by Ketu. Life would be very dull without him. 


Xo Fatal AG: 


om citradhvajapatakaya namah 


27. His emblem (Pataka) is a dazzling flag (Chitra Dhvaja). 


Ketu catches the eye in whatever way the position in the chart suggests. | have found 
that it is Ketu that is the key Graha in the chart of the British monarchy. This is natural as Ketu 


is the lord of Magha Nakshatra in Leo whose symbol is a throne. 


Xo OI AG: 


om ghoraya namah 


28. The terrible. 


Ghora is frightful and violent but it can also mean venerable, awful and sublime. It all 
depends on our inner orientation. Ketu is an irresistible force drawing us towards the subtle. 
That is sublime but frightening for the gross aspects of our awareness. Attempts to resist it 


can disturb the balance of the mind. 


Psychics have a gift that Ketu has given them. | have met several psychics with health 
issues and who had a distortion in their aura related to the third eye. This suggests that their 
work is undermining their health. If one’s work has a psychic component, one should take 


great care. 


0 TAA Aa: 


om citrarathaya namah 


29. Having an eye-catching (Chitra) chariot or vehicle (Ratha). 


Everything about him is a wonder, while he remains invisible, just like the black hole in 
the photo above (Ketu 1). 


0 Tatadt 4a: 


om sikhine namah 


30. One who has reached the height of knowledge and enlightenment. 


Jupiter represents Gurus, but Ketu indicates those who have reached the highest 
pinnacle. The combination of Jupiter and Ketu indicates the Parampara or tradition of wis- 


dom, the succession of masters (Jaimini Upadesha Sutras 1.2.115). 


Shikhin also means a peacock reminding us again of the dazzling beauty and allure of 
the inner awakened state. It is said that the word Rashi (sign) comes from Rahu and Shikhi 


because the primal axis of Rahu and Ketu from zero Aries to zero Libra defines the zodiac. 


30 HATA AA: 


om kulutthabhaksakaya namah 


31. Enjoying (@haksaka) horse-gram (Kuluttha), a kind of grain. 


This is what is used in Ketu’s Puja. Horse-gram comes in red, brown and black colours. 


It is never one dull colour. 


xo SCAM AH: 


om vaiduryabharanaya namah 


32. Adomed with (Bharana) the Vaidirya gem. 


This indicates the gem to be worn as a remedy for Ketu. Generally this is thought of 
as Cat’s Eye, which has a mystic ‘eye’ (Ketu 9). However, many experts consider Vaidirya to 


be lapis lazuli. Lapis is said to be best used by putting a few tiles of it on a wall in one’s home. 


30 SUTMSAAHT AA: 


om utpatajanakaya namah 


33. Gausing (Janaka) ill omens. 


Uipata is a startling event like an earthquake or a meteor boding calamity. Even though 
it is often used for ill omens, it means a portent in general or something that flys or jumps up. 
If Ketu is strongly influencing, there is a tendency in the person to move upwards. The person 
may become a pilot, a mountaineer or live in a penthouse. Ketu rules the upward directions 


while the other nine Grahas rule the eight directions on a plane. 


In one way or another it expresses itself and the highest expression is in the person 
whose Kundalini has risen. Ketu can make us meditate and, with time, the meditation leads to 


those elevated experiences described in the Yoga Sutras and other texts. 


Another meaning is a prodigy such as someone with extraordinary mathematics ability. 


It can also mean any extraordinary phenomenon. 
3 IPT AH: 
om sukramitraya namah 


34. The friend (Mitra) of Shukra, Venus. 


Being a demon, Venus is his Guru but it is especially mentioned here that they are 


friendly. The main Jyotisha texts do not specify the relationships between the seven visible 


Grahas and Rahu and Ketu. This text gives us some help with this enabling more precision 
in interpretation and prediction. This tells us that Ketu will be stronger in the signs of Venus 
and perhaps less damaging to Venus when they are conjoined. Venus Ketu conjunctions can 
sometimes indicate atypical gender relationships. It can give subtle vision such as the ability 
to see auras. 


ao H-Ceaa Ay: 
om mandasakhaya namah 


35. The friend (Sakha) of Saturn. 


Manda means the slow one, indicating Saturn. Rahu and Ketu have the same friends: 
Venus and Saturn. Rahu and Ketu can represent people who are in some way discarded or 


rejected by society. It is Venus and Saturn who try to help them. 


Saturn represents democracy and Venus can cause a social conscience especially 
through Libra. The Sun, Moon, Mars and Jupiter as a group are more concerned with the 
status quo, which sets up the classic political parties, the Democrat/Socialist versus the 
Royalist/ Conservative. Of course, being conservative is natural so the fight is over what is to 
be conserved. 


30 Teena Au: 


om gadadharaya namah 


36. Holding (Ohara) a mace (Gada). 


The repetition reminds us of his exceptional strength and power to take us beyond 
death (see also Ketu 25). 


Xo ATHUTS AH: 


om nakapataye namah 


37. The Lord (Pat?) of the sky. 


Naka is the firmament or sky and this title would normally go to the Sun or the Moon 
depending on it being day or night. As Ketu can eclipse either of them, he becomes the ruler. 


Naka means literally, “where there is no pain’. This could point to the state of Moksha or 


enlightenment that is beyond the pairs of opposites such as heat and cold, which cause pain. 
Ketu is the significator for Moksha. 


Xo ATA AU: 


om antarvedisvaraya namah 


38. The ruler (/shvara) over internal knowledge (Antar Vedi). 


This name confirms the last (37) and tells us that, having taken us beyond duality, Ketu 
can give us any extent of knowledge of that state and all subtle things. 


Xo SMa AA: 


om jaiminigotrajaya namah 


39. Born (Ja) in the family (Gotra) of Jaimini Rishi. 


He is a descendant of the lineage or tribe founded by the great seer Jaimini who 
is credited with many great contributions to the Vedic wisdom including an important work 
on astrology called the Maharishi Jaimini Upadesha Sutras. These Sutras or aphorisms are 
written in a very succinct and highly coded form leading to much debate about their meaning. 
They explain and develop certain aspects of the teachings of Maharishi Parashara in his great 
work Brihat Parashara Hora Shastra. Both works are available in English in several transla- 
tions. While Jaimini’s work is a part of the same body of knowledge, Vedic astrologers often 
speak of Jaimini astrology as a separate system from Parashara’s. In my opinion, this is a 


misunderstanding. 


Jaimini was the disciple of the great sage VedaVyasa, who was the son of Maharishi 
Parashara. Upadesha means that the teaching is that of one’s Guru, not one’s own. Therefore, 
Jaimini was expounding the essence of the teaching as it came directly from Parashara’s 
line. In the Upadesha Sutras, he makes it clear that this is the teaching of a lineage and that 
one can only fully understand this teaching by studying under a member of the lineage. The 
Jaimini Scholar programs is the teaching of such an ancient lineage that has maintained many 
of the oral instructions that allow us to understand the text. | followed this program under my 
Guru, Pandit Sanjay Rath from Puri in Eastern India. Some people think that by reading the 
Sutras and their translations, they can understand their import. From my experience, | can say 
that there is absolutely no chance that anyone could arrive at the teachings | received in this 


way, however smart they might be. 


This is all typical Ketu. He is the great secret keeper, the expert in ciphers, the key to 


every lineage due to his pure devotion to the wisdom and the Guru. 


3p ran] td Kad AA: 


om citraguptatmane namah 


40. He is the soul (Atman) of Chitragupta. 


Chitragupta is the record keeper for Yama, the god of death and dharma, the lord of 
karma — the consequences of our action. It is said that Yama told Lord Brahma, the Creator, 
that he alone could not track all the deeds of all beings. Brahma meditated on this problem 
for 11,000 years and when he opened his eyes a man stood before him with a pen and paper. 
Brahma said, “As you have been conceived in my mind (Chitra is an image) in secret (Gupta), 
you will be called Chitragupta.” People who have come near death say that at that time one 


relives the images of one’s entire life in a matter of moments. 


Ketu is the one with access to what many call the Akashic record. Ketu can give us a 
way of knowing all the subtle things. Chitragupta is the Pratyadhidevata of Ketu, which means 
that he is worshipped along with Ketu and can cause Ketu to be more mild in his expression. 


xo Clears AH: 


om daksinamukhaya namah 


41. Facing (Mukha) South (Daksina). 


This is the direction the statue faces when placed for worship. South is the direction of 
Yama (see Ketu 25 and 40) and thus of death. Ketu faces South to overcome death and give 


us immortality, not of the ego but of the Self. 


3.0 aa A: 
om mukundavarapatraya namah 


42. The container (Patra) of the Grace of the Lord (Mukunda Vara). 


This name also appears under Rahu (56) where it is explained in more detail. Since 
Rahu and Ketu are two parts of the same body, split by the discus of Lord Vishnu, they 


both have received His Grace (see also Rahu 4). Association with them can give us touches 


of that Divinity. This includes high moments of inner awareness. There is a flavour of that in 
the experience when we reach the summit of a great mountain, view the world from a high 
altitude or have other ‘breathtaking’ visions. If we look at the books and movies that are most 
successful, we see Rahu and Ketu fully activated. Rahu provides the dark and violent aspects 
while Ketu includes wizards and special powers like flying. 


The great saint Tapasviji Maharaj was staying in a small hut. His attendant kept the hut 
locked from the outside and came once a day to give the master his meal. Once he opened 
the door to find three visitors discussing with the master. Seeing the attendant, they explained 
that they had been passing overhead when they saw that a great sage was meditating and so 
they had ‘dropped in’ to pay their respects. This story is from the outstanding book Maharaj, 
now sadly out of print. 


xo Tela ara AA: 


om mahasurakulodbhavaya namah 


43. Born (Udbhava) into the family (Kula) of a great demon or demonness (Mahdasura). 


This name makes it clear that he is not of purely divine birth even though subsequently 
blessed. This gives us hope because most of us believe we are not divine but we would like 
to touch or even become one with that Divinity. 


0 UAqUTY AH: 


om ghanavarnaya namah 


44. Intensely coloured (Ghana Varna). 


Also, of intense appearance or form or belonging to a caste or social group whose 
quality is extreme in some way. This is how Ketu can indicate fundamentalists and even 
terrorists. Terrorists are usually people with fundamental views of one kind or another, often 
religious. It is an expression of headlessness that has taken a destructive turn. When Ketu 
falls in the ninth house, the house of religion, it is more likely to indicate such extremism. Of 
course, other factors may render this harmless. 


Another meaning would be ‘one of great renown’. Ketu does hide the outer but it can 
also give fame or make us infamous depending on the kind of phenomenon he inspires us to 
display in the world. It can also mean capable of intense or powerful speech. 


xo ATACATY AH: 


om lambadevaya namah 


45. Vast (Lamba) divinity (Deva). 


Lord Ganesha and Ketu are that vastness, the Supreme Being itself. Ganesha is called 
Lambodara, the god with the large belly. The big belly of Ganesha is symbolic of that vast 
Being into which everything is being absorbed. This name tells us that Ketu, as the Graha of 
the highest truth, is to be associated with Ganesha. If we feel that progress is being blocked 
by Ketu, worship Lord Ganesha. The best way to worship Ganesha is to rest our attention on 
that vastness of consciousness. Until we know that vastness, we can keep repeating our cho- 


sen mantra, even this one. 


so ACTA AA: 


om mrtyuputraya namah 


46. The child (Putra) of death (Mrtyu). 


Death and liberation are intimately associated. Death is a form of liberation because 
the burden of the body, with all its suffering, falls away. Liberation is a kind of death because 
the sense of tiny individuality falls away. Most of those who have experienced dying found 
it a wonderful expansion into light and peace. However, merely dying is not liberation and 
liberation is the end of death. In fact, seeing death is the best incentive to seek liberation. In 


this sense, liberation indicated by Ketu is the child of death. 


Ketu is worshipped to promote family life because of the saying ‘Ketuh kulasyonnatim’ 
in the Navagrahadevata Prarthana hymn. This means ‘Ketu (please) increase or advance the 
family.’ This is the prayer because Ketu in the fifth house of children, unless associated with 


benefics, usually prevents children being born. 
Xo SUITS FH: 
om utpatarupadharine namah 


47. Having (Dharin) portents (Utpata) as his form (Rupa). 


We can infer Ketu’s presence from frightening omens that appear, while Rahu is known 


by the feeling of fear. Whether something causes fear is really just about our reaction to it. 
The phenomenon itself is just a phenomenon. Ketu represents things that come by surprise. 
These may be very welcome or we may later appreciate them as a great good luck. To be 
really free, we have to overcome the attachment to the survival of the small self. When we get 
to face this, fear is inevitable. Fear is the guardian of the door to the highest heaven. From that 
point of view, fear arising is a good omen as long as we do not let it tell us what to do. 


x0 TQM AA: 
om adrsyaya namah 


48. Invisible (Adrshya) . 


As a node of the Moon, we cannot see him. Ketu and Rahu’s position can only be 
inferred from the orbit of the Moon through mathematics. Ketu, along with Mars rules mathe- 
matics and abstract intelligence. 


x0 HIAAg aaa AG: 


om kalagnisannibhaya namah 


49. Resembling (Sannibha) the fire at the end of the world (Kalagni). 


Ketu is one of the fire planets along with the Sun and Mars. Here, we are told that his 
fire is the most intense. If a chart is strongly influenced by both Mars and Ketu, then these are 
people who will not stop, they keep on and on. This can be very good or very bad depending 
on how it manifests. 


30 SUTSTA AA: 


om nrpidaya namah 


50. Injuring (Pida) mankind (Nr). 


The injury can be in terms of imposing a limit or restriction as well as suffering, 
annoyance or actual harm. We harm ourselves by forcibly resisting the restriction we feel. 
Ketu asks us to become more and more subtle in dealing with his challenges. This is the path 
to eventual mastery of everything. First, one must master oneself. Then one injures neither 
oneself nor others. 


30 Tepe au: 


om grhakarine namah 


51. Causing (Karin) householder life (Grha). 


The sense of this is that during the period of Ketu or under its influence one is more 
likely to follow a worldly life despite Ketu representing Moksha or liberation. The name could 
also mean, the creator of the signs of the zodiac. It is said that the zodiac is marked by the 
position of Rahu and Ketu at the beginning of the solar system, Ketu being at zero degrees 
Libra conjunct the brightest star near the zodiac, Spica. This star is used by most Vedic 
astrologers as the determining factor for the difference between the tropical zodiac, based 
on the Vernal Equinox point, and the sidereal zodiac, which is fixed with respect to the stars. 


Spica fixes the zodiac with respect to the stars. 


30 FANICAATCAHTA AU: 


om sarvopadravavarakaya namah 


52. The seat of pain (Varaka) from all (Sarva) grievous calamities. 


Upadrava includes misfortunes which suddenly arise, national disasters and worse. 
Ketu indicates sudden, unexpected events. There is a state of consciousness that can be 
with all this pain without any sense of suffering. | slipped into it once. It was an indescribable 


blessing 


a0 FaaTugaa AH: 


om citraprasutaya namah 


53. Born (Prasata) in Chitra Nakshatra. 


Chitra Nakshatra is essentially opposite Ashwini where Rahu is said to be born (see 
Ketu 8 and Rahu 44). Chitra is a dazzling display and Prasuta can mean the primordial 
essence (Chitra is the feminine form of Chitra). This is illustrative of the subtlest experiences 


close to pure Oneness. 


30 34a AG: 


om analaya namah 


54. The god of fire, Agni or Anaila. 


Maharishi Parashara teaches that Ketu is like Mars. This name confirms its fiery 
tendency. This name refers to all fires, such as the digestive power, and the Nakshatra of 
Agni, Krittika, the third Nakshatra. It is also the number 3 and the 50" year in the ancient 60 
year Jupiter cycle. Krittika is distinguished by being where the Moon is exalted and is deeply 
associated with Moksha, which Ketu signifies. The association with Krittika gives us the clue 
that we can also worship Subrahmanyam, the other son of Lord Shiva who was fostered in 


that Nakshatra (see also Mars 18). 


30 PASI AAAI AA: 


om sarvavyadhivinasakaya namah 


55. Completely destroying all diseases (Sarva VWyadhi) or removing all tormenting people and 
things. 


Like Ganesha, who rules over obstacles and their removal, Ketu can bring disaster and 
also save us from it. It all depends on our attitude. The primary Vedic remedy involves making 
offerings into the sacred fire. Agni then mediates for us with the divine powers determining 
our destiny. Ketu’s association with Agni makes him capable of helping us in grave difficulties. 


30 3UGSAWAI) AU: 


om apasavyapracarine namah 


56. Moving (Pracharin) with a retrograde motion (Apasavya). 


The actual motion of the Moon’s nodes is occasionally direct even though the mean 
motion is retrograde. Traditionally in India, they use the mean positions, which are always 
retrograde. | have found that works very accurately, better than the true positions. This name 


can be cited as a reason for using the mean node. 


Xo FAH UGCTIHy AH: 


om navame papadayakaya namah 


57. In the ninth (NVavama) house, Ketu causes (Dayaka) us to commit or experience Papa. 


Papa is normally translated as sin but | feel this is too negative. The ninth primarily 
refers to the ninth house in the Vedic chart. The ninth is the place of our merit based on 
the kindness and goodness that we bring into this life from the past. Ketu in the ninth may 
cause unexpected turns in our luck. On occasions, this may prove very fortunate. Any nega- 
tive effect can be ameliorated or reversed by factors such as the influence of Jupiter. 


If Ketu’s intensity has the right direction, it can even produce something extraordinary. 
Amir Khan, the great boxer, has this giving him power and persistence. This placement can 
give a royal destiny. For example, in the charts of King Edward VIII, Krishna Raja Wadiyar IV, 
King of Mysore for 46 years, and the Duchess of Cambridge. This is the first of several names 
(58, 62-64, 72-74) that suggest the difficulties associated with certain placements of Ketu. 
Rather than simply repeating these mantras, hold them in the heart and see what they have 
to reveal as impulses of divinity. 


so TAA wees AH: 


om pafcame Sokadaya namah 


58. In the fifth house (Parficama), Ketu brings (Da) grief (Shoka). 


The resistance towards having children that | have found in some people with this 
placement suggests some deep seated fear in this area. However, it need not deny children 
or forebode sorrow. It depends on the association with other Grahas. 


0 SUINRaAUa Aa: 


om uparagakhecaraya namah 


59. The eclipse point (Uparaga) moving through the zodiac (Khechara). 


This tells us how clearly the astronomical principles were understood. It also indicates 
that momentous events can be triggered by the transit of Ketu both for the individual and 
society. 


Xo AGS UHH 4H: 


om atipUrusakarmane namah 


60. Making (Karmana) a person profound. 


Atipirusa means a first-rate person. It could mean being extraordinary in some way 
including being highly intuitive. During Ketu’s Dasha many extraordinary things may happen, 
opportunities present themselves and we may spend a lot of time following them. This can 
be wearing, so we should be careful of our health. If we get too active we may also miss the 
inner opportunities. The most important time is during the Ketu Rahu Dasha, when the inner 
gates of consciousness can open and, like Rahu Ketu Dasha, this time of change can provide 


a turning point in our life. 


Xo {dt Gara AH: 
om turlye sukhapradaya namah 


61. In the fourth house (Turiya), Ketu brings (Prada) happiness (Sukha). 


This name may come as a big surprise to many. The fourth house is the house of 
happiness, and we might expect Ketu there to disturb it. The word Turlya means fourth and 
also indicates the fourth state of consciousness, pure being. This is a state of pure bliss and 
we have seen that Ketu is especially associated with it. If we have Ketu in the fourth and we 
are not happy, we should look into taking up meditation. The bliss is available, if we can open 
to it. This could also apply to Ketu in Cancer and conjunct the Moon. 


ao Fats ATTY AA: 


om trtiye vairadaya namah 


62. In the third house (Trtiya), he causes (Da) enmity (Vajra). 


The third is the place of siblings, supporters and servants. In the Western system, 
servants are seen in the sixth. In Vedic Astrology, the sixth is the place of grief from servants 
but those who help you are primarily shown by the third while the sixth house shows our 
service. Acting as an obstacle, Ketu causes enmity with or from such people. This can occur 


because Ketu also indicates secret enemies and secret dealings. 


On the other hand, this might cause us to see Ketu type people as our brothers and 
sisters and get help from them. Ketu rules spiritual people, mountaineers, dancers, spies and 


other faceless people, etc. 


a0 UTE AH: 
om papagrahaya namah 


63. Causing unconventional acts. 


The literal meaning of Papagraha is ‘A sinful Graha’ but Ketu is not intrinsically sinful. 
The place it stands in the chart can be marked by unconventional acts which might in some 
case prove unfortunate or inappropriate. This is what gives rise to the enmity. However, if Ketu 


is well influenced, this may not happen. There can be genius in what occurs. 


0 Ete choplthlay AG: 


om sphotakakarakaya namah 


64. Indicating (Karaka) boils or tumours (Sphotaka). 


As a fiery Graha it can cause boils and as a marker of grievous woes, Ketu as well 
as Rahu can mark the seat of cancer. Wherever they sit should be a place to which we give 
great gentleness. As far as | am aware, each kind of cancer comes from overstressing some 
part of the body. For example, statistics show that drinking excessive amounts of coffee 
is associated with throat cancer. Thus, if we have Ketu associated with the second house, 


which relates to the face, mouth, throat and eating, we should pay attention to our diet. 


More positively, this can indicate the energy for breaking out of some situation or 
difficulty. 


0 YWUTATUTA AH: 


om prananathaya namah 


65. The lord (Natha) of life. 


Prdna is the life breath and is related to longevity. Ketu is the end of things and thus 
is the ultimate lord of life. An implication of this name is that liberation is born of mastery 
of the breath. Mastery involves attention. In a lecture | attended, the great modern-day Guru 
Ammachi said “Do not miss a single breath”. If one can realize this teaching, one will become 


Prananatha. 


0 TA AHIR AH: 


om paficame Sramakarakaya namah 


66. In the fifth house (Paficama), he indicates (Karaka) the performance of spiritual austerities 
(Shrama). 


Since the fifth house is associated with spiritual practices, this is taken as the primary 
meaning. Shrama can also mean exhaustion. Spiritual practices are to exhaust the ignorance 
that prevents liberation. In ancient times, people would undertake many difficult and painful 
penances such as standing on one leg for years. These days people still do penances. Medi- 
tation and other Yogic practices are forms of penance. This name can also mean that one has 


a tendency to hard work. 


xo feat EHCanara AA: 
om dvitiye sohutavagdatre namah 


67. In the house of speech (Dwitiya), the second, Ketu gives (Dafr) distinct speech 
(Sphutavag). 


Ketu in the second house can indicate a special ability when speaking or a strange or 
unusual way of speaking. In any case, it can be powerful and insightful due to Ketu’s ability to 


penetrate into the depth of anything. 


30 Trarpretaparst AH: 


om visakulitavaktrakaya namah 


68. His speech nullifies the poison (of ignorance). 


This is the highest meaning. It can also mean that he starts poisonous confusion. Visha 
is poison, Akulita bewildered, perplexed, to make muddy and Vaktraka is the mouth or the 
organ of speech as well as the commencement of something. Either the speech of the person 
could be confused or perhaps they could say things that confuse others. Ketu rules over 
people who operate in secrecy like spies. They sometimes get the job of causing poisonous 
confusion in the enemy camp. Ketu can indicate great lies and great truth. One has to see 


what the influences are on it are as well as the general tendencies of the person. 


Xo hraSlaol FH: 


om kamarupine namah 


69. In the form of the cupid (Kama Rapin), the energy of desire. 


In one text it says that during the Ketu Dasha, a seven year cycle, the person will travel 
around having intimate relations with beautiful women. Ketu may cause the Kundalini Shakti, 
our most subtle energy source to awaken to some extent and the first effect of this is to put 
more pressure on the second Chakra. At the same time, it creates some kind of charisma that 


may attract the opposite gender. 


xo Teeqedra Aa: 


om simhadantaya namah 


70. Having lion-like teeth (Simha Danta). 


This gives the hint that Ketu has exceptional strength in Leo. 


a0 opaentyay AH: 


om kusedhmapriyaya namah 


71. Fond (Priya) of Kusha grass offerings (/dhma) in the sacrificial fire. 


The word Kusha implies sharpness of awareness. This clarity is what makes the sacri- 


ficial process effective. Sacrifice is just a metaphor for all worthy acts. 


xo aga AMAT AH: 


om caturthe matrnasaya namah 


72. In the fourth house (Chaturtha), he is harmful (Nasha) for the mother (Maftr). 


Unless nullified by other factors, one may lose one’s mother early or she may have to 
suffer. The suffering may be due to the absence of the child. This position of Ketu may take 


us away from home. 


Previously it was said that Ketu in the fourth house brings happiness. This illustrates 


the importance of looking at the words used or there might appear to be a conflict. This 
name refers to the more mundane level of experience while the previous pointed to the fruit 
of higher consciousness. The fourth house is a Moksha (liberation) house and the word Turlya 
used above points at that. By implication, Ketu in any Moksha house, the fourth, eighth or 


twelfth can ultimately lead to the bliss of liberation. 


Astrologers should also look at the position of Ketu in the fourth divisional chart and 


apply these clues. 


Xo FaqH THAI AA: 


om navame pitrnasakaya namah 


73. In the ninth (Navama), he is harmful (Nashaka) to the father (Pitr). 


This can be compensated by positive factors in the chart. If not, the father may suffer 
or the paternal heritage may be abandoned. For example, those with visionary or extremist 
views often break from the established religion and conventions of their forefathers. | have 
noticed that this placement of Ketu can make some people seers and cause some others to 
take uncompromising or extreme views. Both kinds of people can come into conflict with the 
religious and communal authorities as new visions or strong views are rarely welcomed. 


Several of these names suggest that wherever Ketu falls, the persons indicated by that 
house can suffer or they may be very spiritual or unusual. They may take up a profession 
linked to Ketu. Spirituality is a process of becoming invisible and that is what is indicated, 
not any random suffering. One should not give way to fear. Ketu’s direction is always upward. 


Xo cy AWAY AU: 


om antye vairapradaya namah 


74. In the twelfth house or sign (Antya), Ketu can cause (Prada) heroism or enmity. 


Vaira has as its root ‘Vi to separate. This is the basis of hostility. It is also related to Vir, 


vitality and hence heroism. 


Ketu in the twelfth (Antya) indicates loss, which can be total loss if Ketu is exactly on 
the cusp or centre of the house. The cusp in Vedic Astrology is conceptually the same as the 
cusp in tropical astrology except that in Vedic it is treated as the centre of the house and in 
tropical astrology it is treated as the start. Total loss can mean enlightenment, or transcending 


the ego. In the outer world, it can mean falling out with partner, family or friends leading to los- 


ing much of one’s worldly things. 


| once met a man who had such a combination. He was from a very wealthy family and 
had extensive holdings. As soon as Ketu’s Dasha period started, his family rejected him and 
he was left wandering on the streets of London penniless. He then met a lady who saw him as 
the next great teacher of mankind and adopted him, so a new life began. He had the unusual 
habit of giving away all his money at the end of each year. Strangely, when he consulted me, 
his main concern was how to become wealthy. He lived in two countries so he did not have 


to pay tax to either of them. 


Ketu can produce heroic people both in the ninth and twelfth houses and signs. Hero- 


ism is needed to attain Moksha. 


so Gasca Ay: 


om sutanandanidhanakaya namah 


75. Indicating the preservation (Nidhanaka) of the joy of children (Suta Ananda). 


Since Ketu can prevent this joy, he is also responsible for protecting it. This is a reason 
why he is said to promote the family. Therefore, worshipping the related Devata, Lord Gane- 
sha, is especially helpful for gaining offspring as well as assuring their health and well-being. 
This mantra could also be helpful. 


x0 GUT AA: 


om sarpaksijataya namah 


76. Born (Jata) from the eye of a snake (Sarpa Aksi). 


While this name could mean born in the race of snakes — Rahu and Ketu are consid- 
ered the head and tail of a snake — this also points to the third eye awakened by the serpent 
power of Kundalini. Ketu, as divine intuition, comes from there, the eye on the forehead of 
the serpent power. The Vedic literature speaks of a semi-divine class of serpents, the Nagas, 
who live under the earth and whose world is illuminated by the jewels on their foreheads. They 
have special insight and are associated with the constellation Ashlesa at the end of Cancer. 
Those with a planet like the Moon there usually have some inner guidance or vision. The 
nature of this depends on which planet is placed there. If it is Mercury, then the special in- 


sights come through the intellect and the speech. They may be brilliant writers. 


The jewel is obviously the open third eye associated with the activated pineal gland. 


What is born from the third eye is the highest insight. When Ketu is influential in a person’s 
chart then they usually have intuitive gifts. Their third eye may open. Influential primarily 
means associated with the first house, the Sun or the Moon. 


30 ASTI AH: 


om anangaya namah 


77. Bodiless (Ananga). 


Since he is only an invisible point in the sky, he has no limbs and no body. This name 
applies to the cupid, the mind and thesky. It is the great power of Cosmic intelligence present 
everywhere. 


so HHUA AH: 


om karmarasyudbhavaya namah 


78. Rising up (Udbhava) in the tenth sign or house (Karma Rashi). 


The tenth is the place of Karma or action. It indicates our career. If Ketu is there, we 
have to be known for some unusual aspect or approach to our profession or some profession 
related to the upward direction. It is common in the charts of airline staff like pilots and 
airhostesses or stewards who have to move in the sky to fulfill their obligations. If Ketu falls in 
the tenth house or in Capricorn (the tenth sign), it can raise our career to great heights. 


Xo SUl=d THlatera AH: 

om upante kirtidaya namah 

79. In the eleventh house, he gives (Da) fame (Kirti). Upante is the one before the last. 
Xo HUH HaAeUCa AG: 

om saptame kalahapradaya namah 


80. In the seventh house (Saptama), he gives (Prada) conflict (Kalaha) or a higher path. 


Kalaha can mean deceit or falsehood as well as non-physical violence and abuse. Lord 


Ganesha should be worshipped to remedy this situation. On the positive side, Kalaha can 
mean a path or way. Ketu can give us a special kind of direction when placed in the seventh. 
That path is the path to higher consciousness because Ketu and the seventh house are both 


associated with the base of the spine and thus the activation of the Kundalint energy. 


The seventh is the place of marriage and partnership. Ketu tends to block this but at 
the same time indicates joining with a person or people who are Ketu-like. That can mean 
they are in the Ketu Dasha, their chart is strongly marked by Ketu and/or they are highly 
intuitive or gone over the fine line to be somewhat strange or crazy. Examples of a chart being 


marked by Ketu are that he is in the ascendant or with the Sun, Moon or AtmaKaraka?. 


Xo APH omar AH: 


om astame vyadhikartre namah 


81. In the eighth house (Astama), he causes (Katr) suffering (Vyadhi). 


The eighth house is the place of our errors from the past for which we have to pay in 
this life. Ketu can indicate some kind of error. In India, especially Kerala, they would say that 
some abuse of snakes has taken place leaving a curse on us, so they would perform a Puja to 
the Nagas (the celestial serpents). While | was in India, | came across some examples of this. 
In one case, a colleague was called to a house because the daughter was not getting married. 
When they asked the reason, he heard in the distance the cry “snake, snake”. He immediately 
said that some snake had been killed in the house, that this was the problem and advised 
a Puja. The family was Christian so rejected this saying that it was not true. For a while, the 
astrologer insisted that it was true and the father insisted that it was not. Eventually, the wife 
admitted that such an incident had happened and things had been difficult since then. Finally 


they did the Puja, and the daughter subsequently got married. 


In the West, we will have difficulty accepting such an idea. We are usually afraid of 
snakes and do not have any special regard for them. In India, however, snakes are tradition- 
ally associated with the practice of Yoga and are said to only bite the sinners. | stayed in an 
Ashram in Rishikesh of a famous saint and it is said that many years earlier, soon after the 
ashram was built, the saint and his friend, another local saint, were seen by devotees in a tent 
filled with cobras. Apparently, it was agreed that no snake would be harmed in the ashram 


and no human would be bitten by the snakes. Since then, no case of any snakebite occurred. 


| was in charge of a group of young Indians who came there for training and who were 
unaware of this tradition. One day I came to the hall for the meeting and found that there had 


been a cobra in the entrance porch. The sweeper who had to clean the porch had picked up 


the cobra and swept under it and then put it down {it is true). However, when the students 
came they killed it. | was very upset and gave them strong advice against such behaviour. 
The next day, when | came there, there was a small cobra on the steps leading up to where | 
sat. We suspected they had a nest under the stage. | called the staff and the snake was gen- 


tly removed. 


| myself have seen cases where large snakes have appeared apparently to give their 
Darshan (or visual blessing) when some act of sanctity has occurred. We humans used to 
have a deep connection with the animal and vegetable kingdom; many still do. We slaughter 
hundreds of thousands of dolphins every year, yet we hear no cases of retaliation, rather there 
are many cases of people being saved from sharks by dolphins. There is a group of divers 
who dive off Durban, South Africa, in the place where the sharks congregate. They are often 
swimming with hundreds of sharks. They have a policy of taking nothing at all from the ocean 
and they have never been bothered by the sharks. Those who go spear fishing, however, are 


attacked from time to time. 


The destruction of the eco-system by our greed and carelessness cannot go forever 
without consequence. As James Lovelock, who developed the Gaia theory, said, Nature will 
eventually act to restore balance®. In the Bible and other scriptures we see that if many sin 
and a few in that population are holy, then the place will be spared. Everywhere | go | find 
a sprinkling of truly holy people; | believe that this, alone, has saved us so far. We should 
consider that there may come a time when God tells his own to leave that place and not look 
back! 


| feel especially grieved by the wanton destruction of the oceans. Some think they are 
so large that they cannot be destroyed by human exploitation but research shows 80% of the 
fish and mammals in the ocean have already been taken. Scientists have found that when the 
population of a fish species is about to collapse, they tend to congregate together. When the 
government, on scientific advice, wants to impose quotas, the fishermen say that the catches 
are good and there is no shortage. When the fish group together, they are easy for us to find 
with our all-powerful technology. It looks like there are plenty of fish and then suddenly there 


are none. 


Our addictions to certain foods and food additives make us need a massive supply of 
cheap beef. This is being supplied by non-sustainable agriculture based on cutting down the 
rainforests as well as vast feedlots that are causing terrible pollution problems. It is fortunate 
that there is a growing number of farmers who care for their animals and land and produce 
food responsibly, almost always organically. Two farms in the UK with similar numbers of 
cattle were compared. The organic one had a vet bill of about $1,000/year. The other spent 
around $100,000/year. 


There is plenty of literature on all this so it is not necessary to repeat it but if we, as a 
species, want to survive with a little of our civilization intact, we had better wake up and wake 
up fast. Politicians fail because they are controlled by certain vested interests who are taking 


a very short-term view. We all have to take responsibility for our collective destiny. 


30 ot SEYSUC AH: 
om dhane bahusukhapradaya namah 


82. In the second house (Dhana), he gives many forms of happiness (Bahu Sukha). 


When | mentioned this name to leading Jyotishis in India they objected but | have 
seen that it is true. It applies in my chart and | just passed through the major cycle of Ketu. 
Objectors may say that there is a strong benefic influence on Ketu in my chart and | accept 
that. However, the meaning of the name is clear. Since the word Dhana is used, in the locative, 


meaning in the house of wealth, this position can give monetary benefits. 


xo Gad Wc AA: 


om janane rogadaya namah 


83. In the first house, he causes disease (Roga). 


Janana indicates coming into existence, which is the role of the first house. Ketu rules 
over the opposite process, the end of things, so it may give health issues especially in child- 


hood. There may be some back pains that trouble from time to time. 
36 Stays AH: 
om urdhvamurdhajaya namah 


84. The hair on his head (Murdhaja) is erect (Urdhva). 


This phenomenon occurs when the Kundalint Shakti rises. The hair bristles or stands 


erect. The name indicates this highly empowered spiritual condition, a state of ecstasy. 


30 Teatnre Aa: 
om grahanayakaya namah 


85. The leader (Nayaka) amongst the Grahas. 


This means that no other Graha can overrule him. If he indicates a particular effect, 
other planets can influence but not totally prevent the outcome. In this way, he is like Ganesha 


who is always worshipped first, for without his help, no other worship can be successful. 


Alternatively, it means that he indicates leaders. | have observed this to be true. A 
strong Ketu makes someone very insightful and thus skillful in formulating policies. They may 
lead from behind or in-front depending on other factors. Ketu’s nature to be faceless coupled 
with this may be the archetypal fuel for the popular belief that society is being managed by 


people whose faces are never seen in the halls of government. 


xo Udepa Au: 


om papadrstaye namah 


86. His aspect (Drsta) brings trouble. 


Papa is sin, that is selfish heedless acts. Under the aspect of Ketu, we may lose our 
clarity of mind and make mistakes or even do wrong things. Ketu’s aspect makes us feel like 
we are being destroyed. This activates the most primal response of self-preservation. Virtually 
any act, even if normally considered wrong, becomes an option in this situation. However, if 


we bear with our crucifixion, we will rise again in glory without the stain of sin. 


Some great astrologers argue that as Ketu is headless, he cannot have aspects, no 
eyes equals no vision. Another reason is that planetary aspects are indicative of desire, while 
Ketu, as the Moksha Karaka, has no desire. He may excite desire but he himself has none. 
However, the signs have aspects and thus Ketu aspects all the signs aspected by its sign and 
thus also the planets in them. For example, if Ketu is in Aries, it aspects Leo, Scorpio and 


Aquarius and their planets. Being in the same sign also counts as an aspect. 


Ketu lost his head but, according to the Vedic stories, it was replaced by that of an 
elephant (as well as several other animal heads in different versions). The elephant head 
immediately reminds us of Lord Ganesha who is already identified with Ketu. The truth is 
that whatever planet is most strongly influencing Ketu provides the head. If it is with a strong 


Jupiter (indicating the elephant), then there will be wisdom, not sin. 


x0 Wau AA: 


om khecaraya namah 


87. Moving (Chara) through the sky or firmament (Khe). 


Previously (Ketu 78), it was explained how Ketu can represent people who work in the 
skies, like aircrew. Khechart Mudra is a special Yogic exercise or state that is described as 
‘the stance of moving or flying through the void of the supreme consciousness’ (Tantraloka, 
Muller-Ortega, p. 350). 


x0 WEYaTA AU: 


om sambhavaya namah 


88. Related to or devoted to Lord Shiva, Shambhu (GShambhava). 


This name identifies Ketu with the absolute power. It also occurs under Rahu (97) and 
indicates the one who is always awake, always kind, granting happiness and who brings all 
things eventually to rest or fulfilment. It means Ketu arises from Him and is devoted to Him. 
Thus Ketu will protect other devotees. This mantra can be an excellent remedy for mental 
agitation. 


Xo SMI STATA AH: 


om asesapijitaya namah 


89. Worshipped (Pujita) by everyone (Ashesa). 


This name can also mean that he is worshipped by those who are free from defect, 
perfectly clean in their consciousness. Real worship means continuously giving attention, and 
that occurs when the self identifies with the Self. Attention can only be continuous by the ap- 
parent two merging into One. This is the state he signifies and this is his worship. 


0 WMATA AA: 


om sasvataya namah 


90. Eternal (Shashvata). 


This appears under Rahu (94) but the implication is different. While Rahu mainly 
represents the endless process of change, Ketu represents the eternity of non-change. They 


are the two sides of the Cosmic coin. 


So FeTy AH: 


om nataya namah 


91. An actor, dancer or mime artist (Nata). 


Above we saw that Ketu can excite the energy of desire. This makes him a fascinating 


performer. 


Ko TATA ACTS AA: 
om Subhasubhaphalapradaya namah 


92. Giving (Prada) both auspicious (Shubha) and inauspicious (Ashubha) results (Phala). 


This makes it difficult to predict the outcome of his Dasha. Before | started Ketu Dasha, 
| travelled around India asking astrologers what would happen during this seven-year cycle. | 
got almost no answers. However, | experienced many of the things indicated in these names 
including improved comforts and wealth and profound inner awakening as well as intensity, 
wearing down of the body and a lot of pressure. 


So Ear AH: 


om dhumraya namah 


93. Smoky coloured. 


Dhimra can mean smoke coloured, grey, dark red, purple, dark or smoky. Under his 
influence, we can gain absolute inner clarity but often our ordinary vision is clouded. Dhumra 
can refer to hidden things, so Ketu can indicate acts done in secrecy. When Ketu influences 


our personality, we can become very private or just feel hidden. 
This is a little hint that Ketu is associated with the Goddess Dhumavatt. 


A stone for Ketu is smoky quartz. | have had very good experiences with it though that 


likely was enhanced by the blessings of the Brahmin who gave it to me. 


xo Gata AA: 


om sudhapayine namah 


94. Drinking (Payin) the nectar of immortality (Sudha). 


Those who know the ultimate reality attain immortality of consciousness that is never 
lost whatever happens to the body. While in the body, it is nourished by an inner nectar flow, 


the flow of Soma. 


Xo shot AH: 
om ajitaya namah 


95. Invincible (Ajita). 


There is no hope in fighting with him. The next name clearly tells us how to be with him. 


30 WMA AH: 


om bhaktavatsalaya namah 


96. Affectionate (Vatsala) for the devotees (Bhakta) like a cow for its calf. 


This makes clear that those who approach Ketu with respect and humbleness will ob- 
tain his grace and will not have to suffer from all the terrible things that have been mentioned. 


Xo THeTaala AH: 
om simhasanaya namah 


97. Seated on a lion (Sinha). 


This is the mark of royalty. The lion seat or throne (Simhasana) indicates the power over 
life and death. At the finest level of creation is a roar, which is likened to the roar of a lion. It 
is the primordial sound. That is the place where he sits and that is where the consciousness 
of the wise sits. 


Xo choy AH: 


om ketumurtaye namah 


98. Whose form (Murti) is Ketu. This indicates to us that it is the Supreme Lord who takes this 


form to bless or punish the world. 


Ko TAG gaa AH: 


om ravindudyutinasakaya namah 


99. Blotting out (Nashaka) the light (Dyuti) of the Sun (Ravi) and the Moon (/nadu). 


Obviously, this refers to eclipses but we should also look at conjunctions between 
the luminaries and Ketu even when an actual eclipse is not taking place. The Sun with Ketu 
means the ego feels eclipsed but this conjunction can open the egoless state of conscious- 
ness. The Moon with Ketu can make life feel devoid of happiness but it can also give profound 


inner experiences. For example, mental experiences like visions. 


0 SAU AG: 


om amaraya namah 


100. Immortal. Divine. 


Amara is also the number 33 because there are said to be 33 crores of gods (1 crore 
is 10 million). ‘Gods’ are the individual expressions of the laws of nature. 33 is 3 x 11. Three 
indicates the house of desire and 11 the house of fulfilment of the desire. On the level of 
the gods, there is almost no gap between a desire and its fulfilment. Ketu facilitates human 


awareness reaching that level and beyond. 
ao USHA AA: 
om pidakaya namah 


101. An oppressor (Pidaka). 


His function is to crush everything down until it becomes so fine that it can fathom the 
truth. 


Xo 3TqCaTA AH: 


om amartyaya namah 


102. Undying (Amartya). Without death. 


That which remains after his crushing process is beyond the range of death. 


so TAvyEETy 7H: 


om visnudrstaya namah 


103. He received the Darshan (vision, Drsta) of the Lord (Visnu). 


This occurred when the demon tried to steal the nectar and was decapitated creating 


Ketu and Rahu as explained elsewhere (Rahu 4). 


30 TA AA: 


om asuresvaraya namah 


104. The ruler or chief (/shvara) of those not drinking the nectar. Asura is sometimes translated 
as demon(s). 


While Shukra (Venus) is Guru of the demons, he is the king. Asura, as an archetype, 
means those who are fully identified with the body and do not know the infinite nature of the 
soul. Because they cannot resist him, he can be considered their lord. For those of us seek- 
ing to know the Self, he can help us if we give him the respect due to a king. 


so Wp way AG: 


om bhaktaraksaya namah 


105. The protector (Raksa) of the devotees (Bhakta). 


This name also appears under Rahu and shows that the most terrific karmic forces in 
nature are still under the control of a pure heart. If we face our fears with simplicity and humil- 


ity, then that power from which the fear emanates will protect us. 


The universe is a very violent place. Mankind can be wiped off this planet without any 
notice by some routine cosmic event like a supemova in our corner of the galaxy. Probably, 


there are many other events that could cause this. However, the ancient seers found that 


within their own human consciousness they could traverse the vastness of space and could 


even encompass it all. They knew that which could not die, which lies within every one of us. 


One of the greatest Vedic texts is the Yoga Vasistha (Parimal Publications, Delhi). This 
contains many statements that indicate the remarkable level of knowledge of the ancient 


Rishis. For example, 


‘There is no counting of the atoms proceeding from the spirit and forming the three 
worlds both before and after the birth of the glorious Sun.’ 2.3.4 


Where else in human history do we find people talking about the universe before the 


creation of the Sun? 


‘There is nobody who can count the millions of orbs which at present form the three 
worlds.’ 2.3.5 


Note that the Ancient Greeks identified just over 1,000 stars. 


‘These orbs of light in the heaven, though they appear to be placed so near to us, 
are yet millions of leagues apart...’ ‘All bodies are formed by the combinations of atoms...’ 
3.27.27, 29 


In the story of Queen Lila and the Goddess Saraswati, Saraswati takes Lila on a tour of 
outer space. Having gone very far, Lila comments, 


‘Oh, the great distance we have come to, whence the great luminary of the Sun also, 


appears as small as an atom below.’ 3.29.50 
The Goddess replies, 


‘This is the great pole of the universe, which is scattered over with innumerable nebular 
stars...’ 3.29.52 


It should be noted that our great civilization has never obtained a photo from a 
sufficient distance from the Sun that it is just a dot. Viking’s last photo had the Earth as 0.12 


of a pixel, but the Sun was still quite large. 
xo AParUea-eary AA: 
om vaicitryakapotasyandanaya namah 


106. Riding (Syandana) on a wonderfully coloured pigeon (Vaichitrya Kapota). 


The pigeon or dove is his vehicle and, naturally, it is remarkable in diverse ways. Pi- 


geons were considered portentous by the ancients. 


xo Tafaaweiaiad Aa: 


om vicitraphaladayine namah 


107. Giving amazing and unexpected results (Vichitra Phala). 


Xo PMP HAWaa AH: 


om bhaktabhistaphalapradaya namah 


108. Blessing the devotees (Bhakta) with the fulfilment (fruit, Phala) of their desires (Abhista). 


This is such a beautiful last name. One might expect that since Ketu is last and he 
seems so terrible that all would end in gloom. Fortunately, the ancients have left us with a 
great promise. If we live in goodness and purity to the best of our ability, nothing is beyond 


our reach, even the ultimate Truth, the ocean of bliss. 


So oq AY 


Om tat sat 


+ 
- ODO WAN DOAN WD + 


kkk 
OWOnN OA KRW DY 


QO wWwwWwWOwWwwWONDNDNDND NN NNN ND 
nPRWONM -$- ODWAN DAF WN =| O 


THE MANTRAS OF KETU IN TRANSLITERATION 


. om ketave namah 

.om sthdlasirase namah 

. om Siromatraya namah 

. om dhvajakrtaye namah 

. om navagrahayutaya namah 

. om simhika'surigarohasambhavaya namah 
. om mahabhitikaraya namah 

. om citravarnaya namah 

. om Sripingalaksakaya namah 

. om phulladhGmasakasaya namah 
. om tiksnadamstraya namah 

. om mahodaraya namah 

. om raktanetraya namah 

. om citrakarine namah 

. om tivrakopaya namah 

. om mahasuraya namah 

. om krurakanthaya namah 

. om krodhanidhaye namah 

. om chayagrahaviSesakaya namah 
. om antyagrahaya namah 

. om mahasirsaya namah 

. om suryaraye namah 

. om puspavadgrahine namah 

. om varahastaya namah 

. om gadapanaye namah 

. om citravastradharaya namah 

. om citradhvajapatakaya namah 
. om ghoraya namah 

. om citrarathaya namah 

. om Sikhine namah 

. om kulutthabhaksakaya namah 
. om vaiduryabharanaya namah 
. om utpatajanakaya namah 

. om Sukramitraya namah 


. om mandasakhaya namah 


36. 
37. 
38. 
39. 
40. 
41. 
42. 
43. 
44. 
45. 
46. 
47. 
48. 
49. 
50. 
51. 
52. 
53. 
54. 
55. 
56. 
57. 
58. 
59. 
60. 
61. 
62. 
63. 
64. 
65. 
66. 
67. 
68. 
69. 
70. 
71. 
72. 
73. 


om gadadharaya namah 

om nakapataye namah 

om antarvedisvaraya namah 

om jaiminigotrajaya namah 

om citraguptatmane namah 

om daksinamukhaya namah 

om mukundavarapatraya namah 
om mahasurakulodbhavaya namah 
om ghanavarnaya namah 

om lambadevaya namah 

om mrtyuputraya namah 

om utpatarupadhdarine namah 

om adrsyaya namah 

om kalagnisannibhaya namah 

om nrpidaya namah 

om grhakarine namah 

om sarvopadravavarakaya namah 
om citraprasutaya namah 

om analaya namah 

om sarvavyadhivinasakaya namah 
om apasavyapracarine namah 

om navame papadayakaya namah 
om paficame Sokadaya namah 
om uparagakhecaraya namah 

om atipurusakarmane namah 

om turiye sukhapradaya namah 
om trttye vairadaya namah 

om papagrahaya namah 

om sphotakakarakaya namah 

om prananathaya namah 

om paficame Ssramakarakaya namah 
om dvitiye sphutavagdatre namah 
om visakulitavaktrakaya namah 
om kamartipine namah 

om simhadantaya namah 

om kusedhmapriyaya namah 

om caturthe matrnasaya namah 


om navame pitrnasakaya namah 


74. 
75. 
76. 
77. 
78. 
79. 
80. 
81. 
82. 
83. 
84. 
85. 
86. 
87. 
88. 
89. 
90. 
91, 
92. 
93. 
94. 
95. 
96. 
97. 
98. 
99. 
100. 
101. 
102. 
103. 
104. 
105. 
106. 
107. 
108. 


om antye vairapradaya namah 

om sutanandanidhanakaya namah 
om sarpaksijataya namah 

om anangaya namah 

om karmarasyudbhavaya namah 

om upante kirtidaya namah 

om saptame kalahapradaya namah 
om astame vyadhikartre namah 

om dhane bahusukhapradaya namah 
om janane rogadaya namah 

om urdhvamurdhajaya namah 

om grahanayakaya namah 

om papadrstaye namah 

om khecaraya namah 

om sambhavaya namah 

om asesapijitaya namah 

om sasvataya namah 

om nataya namah 

om Subhasubhaphalapradaya namah 
om dhimraya namah 

om sudhapayine namah 

om ajitaya namah 

om bhaktavatsalaya namah 

om simhasanaya namah 

om ketumurtaye namah 

om ravindudyutinasakaya namah 

om amaraya namah 

om pidakaya namah 

om amartyaya namah 

om visnudrstaya namah 

om asuresvaraya namah 

om bhaktaraksaya namah 

om vaicitryakapotasyandanaya namah 
om vicitraphaladayine namah 

om bhaktabhistaphalapradaya namah 


SOURCES AND ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS 


While these lists are well Known to traditional astrologers in India, | only found two 
places where they had been printed. | am thus indebted to Dr Mrs Saraswathy and Prof. B. A. 
Eeswaran for publishing a Sanskrit text of the names of the Grahas in their book 
NavaGrahas, albeit without translation and source, and Prof. S.K. Ramachandra Rao for his 
outstanding compendium The NavaGraha Kosha, which includes another set. Prof. Rao 
informed me that his work was based on a medieval text. Regretfully Prof. Rao has passed 
away. These two sources have some differences. Where | felt that both versions of a name 
had merit, | included both under the same number. 


| am most grateful to Pandit UmaShankar Jois, priest of the Mukambika temple, Kollur, 
Karnataka, India, for his help in the early stages of this work. Regretfully, he has now passed 
away. Many other pundits gave me their learned opinion on particular names and | thank them 
all. My Jyotish Guru, Pandit Sanjay Rath, has been a great inspiration. 


Two great artists have kindly allowed me to showcase their beautiful work. Pieter 
Weltevrede, acclaimed Dutch master painter, did all the colour work. The drawings were 
done by the highly talented Jane Adams. Find out more about them in the Section ‘The 
Artists’. 


Many people helped me with editing and proofreading and | thank them all. Especially, 
| want to thank my wife Susie for her considerable assistance and all my family for their love 
and support. 


ABOUT THE AUTHOR 


Andrew Foss has a PhD in Computing Science from the University of Alberta and is 
also an Oxford University Physics graduate with publications in Nature and other leading sci- 
entific journals. He is the author of the book High-Dimensional Data Mining. He enjoys a deep 
love of music, art and poetry and has more than 30 years experience studying and teaching 
the Vedic wisdom around the world. He is the Founding President of the British Association of 
Vedic Astrology, Editor of the BAVA Journal Gochara and is a Certified Jaimini Scholar and 
Jyotish Pandit, the highest professional certifications in Vedic Astrology involving nine years 
of continuous study. He has developed the unique, easy and powerful software Shri Jyoti 
Star that has become the first choice amongst the leading Vedic Astrologers around the 
world. Andrew is married and lives with his family in Virginia, USA. 


SECRETS OF VIMSHOTTARI DASHA 


As a bonus | have decided to publish some unique secrets about Vedic Astrology in 
the printed version of this book, which will also have the mantras of all nine planets. Please 
visit YogaOfThePlanets.com for more information. 


For 33 years, |, like everyone else who studies Jyotisha, wondered about the origin of 
the lengths of the Vimshottari Dashas. | could never find a way into this mystery. Nowhere in 
the literature, ancient or modern, can even a satisfactory hint be found. Then, on July 7, 2015, 
| saw on the web at least a partial derivation of the sequence of lords. It relied on knowing the 
Dasha cycle lengths. At the end, the author appealed for someone to find a solution to the 
problem of deriving the length of the cycles. The thought came, ‘let’s give it a shot’. 


| pulled out a fresh sheet of paper and started writing down equations that might help. 
Bit by bit the key principles unfolded themselves. It did not take long to realize that | had an 
answer and it just required some polishing. In the process, some wonderful insights 
appeared as well as a profound advance in the understanding of the Tara Bala, which is most 
important for interpreting the Dasha. | have not found this written anywhere. Therefore, both 
these re-markable and interesting secrets were given to me and | am sharing them with you. 


Notes 


Yoga Philosophy of Patafijali. Trans. PN. Mukerji, Univ. Of Calcutta, 1977. 


Each Nakshatra or lunar mansion has a planetary ruler used in astrological calculations as well as a Vedic deity. 


The Atmakaraka is the soul planet. It is the Graha that has advanced furthest in its zodiacal sign. Rahu is 
naturally retrograde, so it is an exception being measured from the end of the sign. Ketu is not considered as it 
represents the freedom of the soul, not its embodiment. 


