THE YOGA OF THE PLANETS 


MARS, MANGALA ANDREW Foss. PHO 


Da )\ eA. 
' A 
de 5, C WN 
h A aM KZ ze 
a4 ‘OE " 


AV 


r= 
AR 


TABLE OF CONTENTS 


Dedication 

How this Book will Help You 

Find your Personal Mantras 

The Journey 

Notes on Pronounciation from the Transliteration 
Hymn in Honour of the Planets 

Mars, Mangala 

The Mantras of Mangala in Transliteration 
Secrets of Vimshottari Dasha 

Sources and Acknowledgements 

The Artists 


About the Author 


HOW THIS BOOK WILL HELP YOU 


This book has many uses. In itself, it is a meditation. There is no need to know 
anything about Vedic Astrology to enjoy and benefit. There are insights into astrology but the 
main focus is enlightening the consciousness and providing a rebalancing of the energies 
represented by the planets. This will happen automatically as one reads the mantras and their 


commentaries. 


There are 108 mantras for each planet used in Vedic Astrology. Each mantra is a 
descriptive name converted to a salutation and used for meditation or chanting. For example 
‘om Santaya namah’ means ‘salutations to the peaceful one’ and is based on the name santa 
(shaanta) which means peaceful. Reciting the mantra develops understanding for the quality 
embodied in the name and can help mental clarity and spiritual development. In the transla- 
tion, the first mantra of each planet is fully translated. After that, just the names are translated 


leaving ‘Salutations to’ understood. 


The Vedic planets are normally listed in the order of the days of the week. They are 
the Sun, the Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus and Saturn plus the two eclipse points. 
These are the Lunar nodes called Rahu (the North node) and Ketu (the South node). The Vedic 
‘planets’ are often referred to as ‘Grahas’, the Sanskrit word which means ‘graspers’, as they 
appear to guide and control our experiences. 


For the first time, these mantras are listed with translation and commentary. Even if you 
only read the commentaries, you will get some of the benefit. If the planet is weak or afflicted 


in your life, then this acts as a remedy. If it is already strong, this helps to enliven its full value. 


A common way of using these mantras is to recite the set of 108 for the planet one 
chooses’. For example, one could recite the mantras of the Sun on Sunday mornings. The 
next chapter, Find your Personal Mantras, will explain how to go beyond this and find out 


which of the mantras will especially enliven your personal chart. 


The mantras of the more malefic planets, such as Mars, Saturn, Rahu and Ketu, natu- 
rally contain some names, which describe the more challenging side of the Graha. These help 
us to understand certain behaviours and this can be remedial. For these names, it may be 
better to contemplate the deeper meanings rather than simply repeating them. For example, 
Rahu is said to be cruel. This association with cruelty arises out of fear. Fear is deeply seated 


in survival issues. 


Contemplating the mantra may help one get in touch with the source of the problem, 
so it can be alleviated. Loving an injured heart can be the basis of real change. This applies to 


our self or another. | do not recommend using the more challenging names as regular practice 


mantras and | certainly do not recommend you ask another person to do them even if they 
come up when you do the calculations described in the next chapter. On the other hand, | 
have found listening to the sets of 108 names has been beneficial for my clients. 


If chanting one or a set of mantras, | suggest you start with 
om gam ganapataye namah 
to invoke the pure state of mind and end with 
om Santih Santin Santih 
meaning ‘Om peace, peace, peace’. 


For convenience, | am publishing the mantras of the nine planets of Vedic Astrology in 
nine separate eBooks. Put together, the length was too great but | am combining them all in 
the printed version. To find the eBook for another planet, visit YogaOfThePlanets.com. There 
you can also find information on the audio of the recitation of the mantras. | have on occasion 
given these to clients to listen to when that planet was afflicted in their chart with very posi- 
tive results. 


FIND YOUR PERSONAL MANTRAS 


A great secret being released with this book is how to find the best mantras for you 
from the list of 108. This secret has been closely kept by a few Indian Astrologers and | am in- 
debted to my teacher, Pandit Sanjay Rath, for enlightening me about this. 


It is very simple. The reason why there are 108 mantras for the planets as well as such 
lists for the deities is because the zodiac is naturally divided into 108 segments. 108 is said 
to be the number of Shree, the Goddess of prosperity. Astrologically, it is our whole world. 
For example, the name of a new born child is often given based on the Moon’s place in these 
divisions. 


It is not only the Moon that is important. The Sun is very important and all the other 
planets of Vedic Astrology can be key. It all depends on our chart. Whatever the chart, doing 
the mantra for the position of a planet can be very beneficial. It will resonate with us and thus 
has extra energy. 


There are a number of approaches for finding a powerful mantra for you or for a client, 
student or friend. The first | describe requires no astrology and the others are connected to 
the actual positions of the planets. For those with an interest in Vedic Astrology, this can be- 
come quite detailed as we drill down on the relationship between different planets. Therefore, 
a chapter on advanced applications is to be found in the printed version of the book. Here we 
give the easy astrological applications. 


However you arrive at a mantra, please pay attention to the caveat mentioned in the 
previous section. 


Method One, the Random Number 


Picking a random number may sound an unlikely idea but it is something that many 
prognostic systems employ, including the Vedic Astrology method of answering questions. 
This technique often gives clear insights. If you are calm and quietly focused, then nature 
talks to you and one way of facilitating this is picking a number. There are really two situations, 
finding a number for oneself and finding one for another. For example, if you are a Yoga 
teacher whose student wants a mantra or someone sharing with a friend. 


Suppose you want a random number for yourself and do not want to imagine a number 
out of 108. You can get three single digit numbers by picking numbers you see. One way is to 
open a book and take the final digit of the page number and do this three times. For example, 
suppose you open a book at random three times and get pages 21, 143 and 79. Pick the final 
digits which would be 1, 3 and 9. Write down these digits to form a number 139 and adjust 


to the desired range by subtracting 108. In this example, 139 — 108 = 31. Of course, you can 
come up with many alternate ways of getting a number. 


My astrological software Shri Jyoti Stare gives a random number. In the Data Entry 
screen, click ‘Enter Number’. If you are asked about ‘Replacing the current chart...’ click Yes 
or No. In the next screen, make sure the Range is set to 108 and you will see a random num- 
ber is given to you. 


If there is another person involved, one can ask them for a number. This often works. 
What we want is a number between 1 and 108. If the person gives us a number larger than 
108, we can keep subtracting 108 until we get a number in the desired range. For example, if 
they say 250, then subtracting 108 twice (216) gives 34. However, we may feel that the person 
is interpreting our answer to mean a single digit number only or perhaps knows the system 
we are using too well and may be biased towards certain numbers. Then we can ask for three 
single digit numbers as in the method described just above but we can write them down in re- 
verse order. This is just a suggestion, in reality we can use any scheme that we like. 


A separate app for this book is planned, which will do both random number and astro- 
logical calculations (information will be posted on YogaOfThePlanets.com). 


Method Two, Using the Astrological Chart 


The following is how to find the number for your natal Moon (or any planet). First, find 
out the sidereal position from any software, for example Shri Jyoti Star. In the current version 
7, it will also give you the mantra number next to the planet glyphs in charts. The planned app 
for this book will also give the number (see YogaOfThePlanets.com) but it is easy to do it by 
hand if one has the planet position. Examples are given below. 


In the table following, look up the planet position and find the number. Note, the table 
is at the end of this section and it is quite narrow to facilitate reading on narrow screens. If you 
still cannot see the whole width of the table, rotate your device to Landscape or pinch in until 
you can see the whole table. 


For example, suppose the planet is at Virgo 5 degrees. 5° is between 3°20’ and 6°40' 
so look in the second column of numbers under 6°40’ in the row for Virgo. You will find the 
number 47. Then look in the book for the mantra numbered 47. In the main text, the number 
is given at the start of the commentary, after the mantra. In the lists at the end, the mantra fol- 
lows the number. For the Moon, the mantra for 47 is ‘om muktidaya namah’. 


This is the simplest application of the rule where the number is counted from the start 
of the zodiac. This can be called ‘God’s view’ as the beginning of the zodiac is the beginning 
of the chart from the point of view of the Creator. Thus, it is very powerful. However, there 
are other views. There is the count from the Moon, which gives the social or personal view. 


There is the count from the Sun, which is like the view from our soul. Another important 
count is from the Ascendant, which relates to the body and health. Reciting the mantra we 
get from this count may help our health but if we feel sick we should always consult a medi- 
cal professional. 


We can make a count from any of the planets as the starting point. In Jyotisna (Vedic 
Astrology) there are systems of planetary cycles (periods), especially the famous Vimshottari 
Dasha system. All Vedic Astrology software like Shri Jyoti Star give these cycles too. Even 
some Western Astrology software or online software give them. For example, you might be 
running a Venus Moon cycle and subcycle. That means you are in the major cycle of Venus 
and the minor cycle of the Moon (called a Bhukti). In this example, one can count from Venus 
to the Moon and use the mantra from the Moon list. 


For example, let us find the mantra for the Moon from the perspective of the Sun. Let 
us suppose the Sun is at 8°10’ Leo and the Moon is at 4°30’ Sagittarius. First find the number 
for the Sun from the table as we did above, which is 39, and then the number for the Moon 
from the table which is 74, as 4°30’ is greater than 3°20’ and less than 6°40’. Now subtract 39 
from 74 and add 1, which gives you 36. Then find mantra 36 in the mantra list for the Moon. 
We add 1 because if both planets have the same number, the answer has to be 1, there is no 
mantra for zero. If the subtraction gives a negative value, just add 108 to the result. 


Now you know how to find key mantras for your chart in general and for your Dasha cy- 
cles. | recommend you start with ‘God’s view’ as this can be considered the most important. 


(The table is on the next page) 


Degrees up to 


Sign 3° 6° 40% “1380 “46? <20% 93% BE --30° 
20’ 40’ 20’ = 40’ 20’ = 40’ 

Aries 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 

Taurus 10. ~=«11 12 13 14 15 16 #17 ~ 18 

Gemini 19 20 21 22 23 24 2 26 27 


Cancer 28 29 30 ~~ 31 32 33 34 35 36 


Leo 37 38 39 40 = 41 42 43 44 45 
Virgo 46 47 48 49 50 51 52 5354 
Libra 55 56 «57 58 59 #60 61 62 63 


Scorpio 64 65 66 67 68 69 70 71 72 
Sagittarius 73 74 15 7 77 78 79 ~=©680-~—St—s«éO83211 
Capricorn 82 83 84 85 86 87 88 89 90 
Aquarius 91 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 
Pisces 100 101 102 103 104 105 106 107 108 


THe AsTROLOGICAL Houses 


In various places in this book you will find reference to houses or places from some 
important personal marker such as the Ascendant or the Moon. The simplest and traditional 
way of understanding this is in terms of the 12 signs of the zodiac, Aries, Taurus, etc. If 
the Moon is in Taurus, then Taurus is the first house or place from the Moon. Gemini is the 
second. Aries is the twelfth, etc. One only has to count round by signs. The Ascendant is in 


the sign rising on the Eastern horizon at the time of birth. 


THE JOURNEY 


On March 3rd 1995, | entered the sacred and tranquil valley surrounding the small 
village of Kollur. | had fostered a desire to visit here for eight years since a friend told me about 
it. | did not know why | felt this connection but when | was finally able to travel to India | set 
my heart on reaching that place. It seemed very special and | must have feared going straight 
there in case my energy was unprepared. | chose to go first to Tamil Nadu on the opposite 


coast and to the great temple of Rameshvaram. 


Rameshvaram is on the spit of land opposite Sri Lanka. This is the place Shri Rama 
worshipped Lord Shiva before launching his campaign to recover his wife Sita from the 
demon king. To cross the ocean, his army of monkeys and bears built a bridge or causeway 
across the ocean. This was many thousands of years ago but, amazingly, the remains of a 
causeway to Sri Lanka are still visible in satellite photos. According to temple records, Shit 
Rama’s bridge was passable being completely above the sea until destroyed by a cyclone in 
1480 AD. 


From Rameshvaram, | visited the great temple of Minakshi and thence to the very tip of 
India, Kanyakumari. This place has remarkable temples especially that of the Virgin Goddess. 
| rose and went at 3:30 am and was almost alone in witnessing the bathing of the Goddess in 
milk. It was the Full Moon day. A little later | did homage to the shrine for the Navagraha and 
received a distinct blessing. Prior to that | had done some study of Jyotisha but had received 
no authority from any Guru or other source to study and practice. This was a most unex- 


pected Grace. 


From Kanyakumari, | travelled up the Kerala coast visiting Ashrams and temples until 
| came to Kollur. It was a great moment, though for no obvious reason at all. Kollur is home 
to the famous temple of Devi Mookambika, the Goddess of the mouth. It is said she grants 
blessings related to the voice and the arts. Most evenings, artists from all over India come to 


perform before her. They sing, dance and play instruments. 


At the time | knew nothing about this temple. | did not know that astrologers from all 
over South India come here to pray and do penance for Vak Siddhi, the power that whatever 
one says proves true. After all, people expect an astrologer to have this power. While, in rare 
cases, it is possible that a person is born with this, generally it only arises after long and sin- 
cere spiritual practice. This is why Vedic Astrology, Jyotisha, is primarily a spiritual discipline 


and one should seek a guru or gurus to guide one’s spiritual and intellectual development. 


The essence of success in an earthly endeavour is the Grace of the Goddess and for 


each aspirant there is some form that appeals to him or her and which can grant success. 


There are rules for finding this form but ultimately it is very personal. | should make it clear that 
talk of gods and goddesses does not conflict with the monotheistic view because the Vedic 
view is that the One takes whatever form we desire or can be approached as purely formless 
if that is our path. 


The worship of the Goddess in India is, at its peak, related to the Shri Vidya and the 
Shri Chakra. The great sage and teacher Adi Shankaracharya installed a Shri Chakra under 
the deity in the Mookambika temple. After some time in Kollur, | came to know that he also 
installed a Shri Chakra at the top of the highest mountain nearby where the root shrine of 
the Goddess is to be found. Part of the pilgrimage is to walk to the top of this mountain. It 
is about 12 miles or one can take the bus part of the way and walk the last 3-4 hours. | had 
many extraordinary experiences on this mountain as well as in the temple, which | will write 
about elsewhere. 


While | was staying at the temple, somehow | conceived of this book. It seemed to me 
that the sets of 108 names of the Grahas (planets) were important and used by astrologers 
but | could find no trace of a translation or commentary. So | started making notes. When | 
could not understand a word, | discussed it with my friend UmaShankar Jois who is one of the 
distinguished priests at the temple. He studied Jyotisha with a great Guru though he passed 
away before my friend’s studies were complete. UmaShankar is a great expert in the remedial 
measures and he felt | had some knowledge on the analysis of charts so we spent a lot of time 
discussing Jyotisha together. 


I stayed at Kollur for more than 40 days, as is the custom, and then went for Shivaratri 
in Varanasi. This is the greatest festival for Lord Shiva and Varanasi is considered the city of 
Shiva, and is one of the most profound places to celebrate it. As | was about to leave Kollur, 
| went to the temple to take Her leave to go. The priests put me at the front during the Arti 
(ritual waving of lights before the shrine), which is the peak of the evening worship. Then | got 
on the bus to go to Bangalore where | could catch a train for the North. 


As it happened, the conductor of this bus was part of a ring of thieves who stole the 
luggage of innocents like me. | arrived in Bangalore without anything, all my notes were gone. 
Still | managed to continue my journey and reached Varanasi, the great city of Shiva, at 4 am 
on Shivaratri. | washed and went straight to the temple having no luggage to concern me. 
Standing in the queue | noticed that | was the only male wearing traditional clothing. There 
was a guard on the door and they often turn ‘tourists’ away. He looked me over for a while 
and then enthusiastically said ‘om namah Ssivaya’ and waived me in. 


The next year, | returned to Kollur with another notebook. | started by writing down all 
that | remembered and naturally found that my understanding had improved over the year and 
quickly was ahead of my previous work. When | left Kollur after another 40+ days | had just 


a few names which | could not decipher. | visited Prof. Ramachandra Rao in Bangalore who 
was one of the two people that | found who had published the lists of the names. We had an 
interesting discussion. He was a very great scholar. Unfortunately, he has now passed away. 
Travelling through India | met many good scholars who kindly gave me their opinions so the 
meanings became clear. Since then, from time to time | wrote my small commentary. It re- 


flects many stages in my own spiritual life. | hope you enjoy it. 


In 2007, | visited a small house a few miles north of the great Konark temple. This 
temple, though now partially ruined, was perhaps India’s greatest temple to the Sun god. It 
is built like a giant chariot. Some of the carvings are now in the British Museum including 
the large carvings of the nine Grahas (planets). The Konark temple stands near the beach in 
the North Eastern part of India’s V shape so is one of the first places to see the rays of the 
rising Sun. Konark is some 20 miles north of Puri where the great Jagannatha temple of Lord 
Krishna is to be found administered by the Shankaracharya of the East. He is charged with 


maintaining the Rig Veda, accepted as humanity’s oldest recorded wisdom text. 


About 500 years ago, the great spiritual teacher Chaitanya Mahaprabhu resided here 
and the lineages derived from him are still very widespread today, such as ISKCON. He had 
five ‘sakhas’ or friends, as they were called, one of which was Swami Achyutananda. The 
Swami was initiated by the great teacher at an early age and went on to become the King’s 
astrologer, a noted author of over 200 books and an enlightened sage. He also founded 13 
schools in the region. These taught various sciences and several were dedicated to Jyotisha. 
When he was leaving his body, he promised to remain in a ‘shunya’ form. Shunya means the 
void and it is a term he explained in great depth in one of his books. It does not refer to mere 


nothingness but to a profound state of Being. 


He kept his promise and even today you can go and consult him. That is where | was 
going. There is a small shrine and next to it are the quarters of a pandit who keeps and 
interprets a set of copper plates (tamra poti). These plates only contain some drawings like 
the shape of a lotus, but when you enter there with a question in your mind, the answer 
appears written in ancient Odia (the local language 500 years ago) and the pandit reads them 
for you. If you look, you can actually see the writing appear. | went there with several friends, 
all of whom were students of Pandit Sanjay Rath who is the last remaining person carrying 
the knowledge of the Jyotisha schools founded by the Swami. In effect, we had joined his 
lineage. The answers we got were remarkably pertinent and insightful. We were all given 
mantras. | later talked to a colleague who has taken over 40 people there and he said no one 


had ever been given a mantra. 


The Swami told me to finish my book. | noticed that when | did the mantra, | would 


work more on this text. | hope he forgives me for the long time spent in fulfilling his instruction 


but perhaps | or the time was not ripe before now. This year (2015) marks the 20th year since 
| started and only this year did | make the important discovery about the Vimshottari Dasha 
which is published in this book. In the derivation of the Vimshottari Dasha cycles or periods, 


the great significance of 20 years is revealed. 


The name of the Sun temple is from Kona + Arka. Arka is a name of the Sun and 
Kona means trine. In Jyotisha, this indicates the Dharma Trikona, the sustainer of life, which | 
have written about in many places in this book and is so important in the interpretation of the 


Vimshottari Dasha. 


NOTES ON PRONOUNCIATION FROM THE TRANSLITERATION 


In the transliteration, there are marks called diacriticals that aid correct pronunciation. 


In Sanskrit there are long and short syllables. The long ones are to be sounded for 
twice as long as the short ones, even longer is OK. Vowels with a line over them like ‘a’ and 
double vowels like ‘ai’ are all long. ‘h’ (h with a dot under it) is pronounced like ‘ah’, that is 
with aspiration. It is often pronounced as ‘ahah’ but this is not recommended for mantras as 
it effectively adds another syllable and the syllable count of a mantra is important. ‘s’ with an 


acute accent is like ‘sh’. For example, ‘Sukrah’ is pronounced ‘shukrah’. 


Consonants or sibilants with a dot under them like t or s are retroflex. For example, t is 
pronounced as the ‘t’ in Tom. You curl your tongue back and strike your palate. ‘t’ on the other 
hand is a dental sound. ‘th’ is ‘t’ with some aspiration as are all the other syllables that have 


an ‘h’ like ‘bh’, ‘dh’ and ‘gh’. You just blow a little when saying the consonant. 


The ‘r’ such as in ‘brhat’ is a vowel in Sanskrit pronounced like the ‘ry’ in jewelry. ‘c’ is 
pronounced as ‘ch’, as in ‘change’. In the commentary, | usually use ‘ch’. If ‘ch’ appears in the 
transliteration, then it is like ‘chh’, which is ‘ch’ with some extra aspiration. 


Please visit a Sanskrit learning web site or teacher for more detailed advice. One good 
site is learnsanskrit.org. 


The Devanagari (Sanskrit) support on a PC is excellent but may not be so perfect on 
mobile devices. Older Kindle devices and other eReaders may not show it at all. One can al- 


ways check against the transliteration, which should be correct. 


Please note that the first time part of a mantra is mentioned in the following text, it is 
italicized. Sanskrit terms in the commentaries are often transliterated but not always accord- 
ing to the more rigorous scheme. Sometimes the more usual form is followed using the stan- 
dard English alphabet. 


HYMN IN HONOUR OF THE PLANETS 


so Th TUNA Aa: 


om gar ganapataye namah 


Sa HURRAH AM: IM YTHE Sera 
TEM Yr: Walghda: Fs Wer: WA HU Fadil 


brahma muraristripurantakarl bhanuh Sast 
bhiUmisuto budhasca | 
gurusca Sukrah Sanirahuketavah sarve grahah 


Santi kara bhavantu || 


Brahma (the Creator), Murari (Vishnu, the Sustainer), Tripurantakarin (Siva, the slayer of the 
demon Tripurasura), Bhanu (the Sun), Shashin (the Moon), Bhimisuta (Mars, the son of the 
Earth), Budha (Mercury), Guru (Jupiter), Shukra (Venus), Shani (Saturn), Rahu and Ketu, may 


all these Grahas be peaceful. 


Mars, MANGALA 


sto METER FH: 


om mahisutaya namah 


1. Salutations to the son of the earth. 


This first name brings forth the intimate connection of Mars with Mahi, the earth and 
the earth element. Mars, the indicator of the Shakti or vital force, is said to be born (Suta) of 
the earth. This clearly points to the base Chakra, which is the place of the earth element in the 
body. From here the Kundalini energy rises when she awakens. Mars is exalted in the cardinal 


earth sign, Capricorn. 


30 HEM AA: 
om mahabhagaya namalh 


2. The most fortunate one. 


Maha is a prefix meaning great. Mars has many names starting with Maha. One 
whose Shakti has awakened is possessed of Bhaga or majesty. Derived from Bhaga, Bhaga 
indicates inheritance, in the sense of the one who has received great fortune. Mars indicates 
those with much vitality, such as kings and warriors, who often possess great wealth and 


power. In ancient times, these people were often addressed as Mahabhaga. 


30 WS. A: 


om mangalaya namah 


3. The auspicious (Mangala) one. 


Mars is the ruler of the fire element, Agni. The balanced fire quality in a person, which 
Ayurveda calls Pitta, is compassionate and auspicious. Agni can accomplish whatever needs 
to be done. 


The Bhagavad Gita (2.63) explains how anger disturbs the clarity of the intellect and 
this leads to disturbance of the vital force, the Prana. A breakdown in the Prana ruins health 
and, if complete, is fatal. Later, it says, ‘know anger and desire to be the enemies here on 
Earth’ (8.37). If we are prone to anger, it can help to take up some practice along with proper 


diet and environment that will help us keep our cool. Swimming and walking by water are two 


examples of how engaging with the environment can help. Avoiding sour and spicy foods can 
help calm Pitta though fresh plain yoghurt is good for balancing Mars, which rules bitterness. 
This and other mantras in this chapter may also help. 


30 WS awald AH: 
om mangalapradaya namah 


4. The giver (Prada) of auspiciousness. 


Not only is he auspicious but he is the bestower of auspiciousness on those he 
favours. This is the way of royalty. Mangala is also happiness, welfare and bliss. All these 
things are associated with feeling strong. A strong Mars in the Vedic chart makes a person full 
of energy and the urge to be active. If the energy rises through the Chakras, well-being turns 
into bliss. 


Mangala also has the meaning of faithfulness. Married Indian women wear a necklace 
called a Mangala Sutra or thread. Faithfulness is the sine qua non for real vitality and bliss 
in life. To achieve any high goal we have to find the right path and the right guide. Through 
faithfulness to these, we will surely succeed. On the other hand, the negative side of Mars 
can show disrespect to the teacher, which is indicated by Jupiter. Where Mars is exalted in 
Capricorn, Jupiter is debilitated. However, when Mars and Jupiter work together, great wealth 
and higher things are achieved. This is like the leader who follows the advice of the trusted 
counsellor. It is wise to always encourage the auspicious and faithful side of Mars as hailed 
in this and Mars 3. 


xo Telana AA: 


om mahaviraya namah 


5. Possessed of great (Maha) vitality, power (Vira). 


Virility comes from the same root as Vira. Top athletes and all heroes are powered by 
Mars. Mars has to be influential in the charts of leaders as well. Aries, the primary sign of 
Mars, is said to be the royal sign as it represents the head. The other royal sign is Leo. Thus 
Mars and the Sun define the executive. If they are strong in the Vedic chart, one tends to grav- 
itate towards positions of power. 


ao Ferry FA: 
om mahasiraya namah 


6. The great (Maha) hero (Shura). One who is most brave and valiant. 


Mars represents the warrior and also the sages. Mars can be portrayed as strength 
in a male or female archetype. Mars holds the Shakti, which is the vital force in everyone. 
Awakening requires Shakti. Both male and female saints have a strong or prominent Mars in 
their charts. 


The Tantra teaches that spiritual progress comes from allowing the vital energy to get 
finer and finer. This stops when one seeks pleasure from it. Mars thus gets associated with 
celibacy but this has to do with any kind of energy projection. For example, speaking out 
loud compared with experiencing finer and finer stages of thinking in meditation. Many are 
attracted to the teachings of the Tantra but one has to be a hero as there appears to be a 
great sacrifice involved. This is the path of the inner warrior. It takes a hero within to surren- 


der unconditionally. 


The path of the outer warrior is well known. Great heroes show passion in their com- 


petitions. Those who risk their lives to protect us are rightly honoured. 


30 HRTATUUIHA AA: 
om mahabalaparakramaya namah 


7. One possessed of a great (Waha) power (Bala) of courage (Parakrama). One attacking or 
endeavouring with great strength. 


The warrior on the outside and the resolute in truth on the inside both exemplify the 
3 Highlighters: 24 <-t2 se cemcnt= snc tsac tascacoe satan senAans str acdc eceso Aree kad este snare eke pe naar eens eee e ose dan seta sed 
grace of Mars. In the Vedic chart, Mars signifies the third house and this makes it the place 


of Parakrama, which means courage and enterprise. What you choose to initiate, the energy 
you put into it and the fortitude with which you follow it through is all seen in this house. With- 


out Mars, how can anything be accomplished materially or spiritually? 


If Mars predominates in the chart, one is naturally competitive. Being an athlete, police 
officer, soldier, politician or a lawyer is a proper application of this. However, in some cases 
there may be a tendency to go from one fight to another especially if Mars is in the ‘karma’ 
or action house, the tenth. For some professions like boxers and lawyers, this is a part of 
the life they have chosen. For others, it may be an unwanted experience. It may seem to be 
happening by itself but one should consider if a subconscious tendency is also involved and 
try to remedy this. After all, Mars also has the power to decide not to fight. Then Mars awak- 


ens as the Shakti of the spiritual path. 


The true path of Mars is the path of non-violence. Passive aggression is perhaps better 


than active aggression but it is not true non-violence. Let us consider a scenario where the 
peace of society is being disturbed. The leader sends the police and the army to quell the 
chaos. This works as long as the bulk of the people approve. That means that society is 
fundamentally at peace so force can be used to control a disturbance and it is entirely proper 
to do so. However, if the people are not accepting of the use of force by the leader, he should 
accept the will of the people even if it involves his resignation rather than trying to stay in 


power through force. This requires true courage. 


According to the Vedic literature, peaceful people create a peaceful environment. This 
is the core reason why societies all over the globe have sponsored communities of religious to 
spend their days in meditation. If they do their duty properly, both they and their community 
benefit because violent tendencies in the people are kept calm by the subtle influence. The 
true path of Mars is to develop this kind of inner calm that can genuinely protect the commu- 
nity. The full depth of inner peace is not a passive state but the seat of exceptional power as 


the next name indicates. 


xo Hear Aa: 
om maharaudraya namah 


8. The very (Maha) terrible or fierce (Raudra). 


The awakened inner Shakti is a great power that is not easily faced. Hence, the 
attempts to awaken it through Yogic practices are discouraged by the Gurus unless the 
practitioner is qualified by their depth of surrender and purity of heart. The awakening of the 
Kundalini can be more of a curse than a blessing if brought about by force. The great sage, 


Ramana Maharishi likened it to an elephant let loose inside the body. 


Since Mars is our courage, when strong he is most difficult to face. People who have 
both a strong Mars and a strong Sun tend to get whatever they want because everyone defers 
to them. It is not worth the cost of opposing their wish. When crossed, they become very 
fierce. | had a Guru whose Mars was exceptional. Everyone shook before him but he did not 
try to control my friend, despite his youth, which | believe was due to my friend's exceptionally 
strong Sun and Mars. | watched the Guru using roundabout ways of managing my friend so 


that he would not feel he was being managed. 


People with strong Sun and Mars naturally end up as the boss. The Sun is the natural 
leader but every king needs his general to fight his wars, which is the role of Mars. Mars is the 
commander-in-chief and functions as such. President Obama's key planet is Mars in Leo, the 


sign of the Sun. That is why he proved very competent and firm in matters of national security. 


x0 FEINGTY AH: 


om mahabhadraya namah 


9. The very (Maha) auspicious and blessed one. 


If the Shakti is awakened when the aspirant is ready then the result is pure blessedness 


(Bhadra). This is the other side of the coin from the ‘terrible’ one. 


30 AAS AA: 


om mananiyaya namah 


10. The one fit to be honoured and respected (Mananiya). 


Those with a strong Mars are worthy of respect. Natural leaders typically expect to be 
treated with respect and deference. The wise and the strong have no problem in giving this 
respect. It costs nothing and it cultures an attitude of respect to all things, something that 
benefits us all. 


The influence of Mars in our chart can make respect an issue. People may feel that 
they are not getting the respect they deserve at work or at home. It helps to realize that this is 
more of an intemal issue, rather than the fault of certain specific people. If one can relax about 
it inside then that is the end of the issue. People will behave however they choose and that is 


not something we can control so it is best not to trouble ourselves over it. 


We may have to live or work with someone who flares up if they do not get what they 
want. We may feel put down. It is best to try to find the positives of the situation. The ego and 
the will cause endless complications in life. Difficult situations may help us get greater clarity 
about our own issues and attitudes. Usually, people who are difficult or angry are struggling 
with a deep wound from their past. Recognizing this can help one have a different attitude 


and this may cause a change in the situation. 


30 ZUTHUa AA: 


om dayakaraya namah 


11. The compassionate. 


Daya is compassion and Kara the one who promotes or causes it. Mars is a fiery planet 
and thus is associated with Pitta Dosha. This is a term from Ayurveda for the fiery body type. 


Pitta types are easily angered but are also naturally compassionate. They are especially kind 
S Highlighters s<ss>2o6ecscseahecsincs noe ns oS ysan see sr aera n ces cece cnc aie tents Cae ine Sse aire ng cen ccs onder ete a cicecoc cnc 


to those who honour them. 
3 Highlighters ------------------ 


30 ATCA AA: 


om manadaya namah 


12. Causing (Da) pride (Mana). Giving respect. 


Warriors are ready to fight out of pride. There is pride for one’s country as well as one’s 
own strength, skill and dignity. They give respect to those who they see are more powerful or 
worthy of that honour. This keeps the discipline of an army or state. Capricorn as the tenth 


§ Highlighters ---------------"->- 
sign naturally has Mana or pride. It is like the tenth house, which is where we seek status. 


Mars has a natural association with its exaltation sign Capricorn and it gets Dig Bala or direc- 
SHighlightars'= ce sestes cer sesriessne esr cos estes sea es ela caw eee a Seco temcncn ash ates ones Seec teas sessanies aac aG espa Scinads sete 
tional strength in the tenth house. 


om aparvanaya namah 


13. Impenetrable. 


The name suggests that there is no waxing or waning to honour and no special days 
on which to worship him. That Shakti is to be known continuously. For this, we benefit from 
following a daily practice. 


Aparvana also means ‘without a knot or joint’. This is why it is very hard to overcome 
someone with a strong Mars. He makes one enjoy competition. One competes to show that 
one’s armour has no weak point. For example, the tennis player practises so he can return all 
types of well hit balls. 


ao HUF AH: 


om kraraya namah 


14. Cruel (Krura). 


A warrior has to be able to do cruel things. Mars indicates violence that inevitably 
appears cruel. The awakening Shakti can move with such energy that it appears unconcerned 
with the apparent fragility of the body. Once Shakti is united with its lord Shiva, then peace 
and compassion predominate. 

Mars indicates surgeons while Mercury indicates a doctor who gives medicine. Mer- 


oiMightighters -s-2-ecs05: 206 onScas piecse sna nersonss sven nssc sooo seep cen tonne ses ct reo sa sar satnar anaes as sat ah 
cury will hesitate to take up the knife. Mercury makes one prefer to be vegetarian while Mars 


has no problem with taking the life of an animal. Each planet has its viewpoint and the soul 
has to listen to the advice from all of them but in each individual, some voices are louder than 


others. This can also change over time, hence our differences. 


xo TaTaaastas AA: 


om tapatrayavivarjitaya namah 


15. He who destroys (Vivarjita) the three kinds of misery (Tapa Traya). 


The three kinds of miseries are those arising from the self, the world and the gods. The 
Vedic terms are Adhyatmika, Adhibhautika and Adhidaivika. These mean the trouble we bring 
on ourselves, that which others visit on us and that which seems to be from fate or unseen 
forces. The inner power, the awakened Shakti, banishes all kinds of misery. The king or ruler 
is more limited in their ability to help, even when there is genuine willingness. However, it is 
still their duty to do what they can. A ruler has to have police for internal troubles, the army 
for external threats and a department for helping with natural disasters. It is his Shakti that 
has to energize all these parts of the government. In times of crisis, it is the warriors of the 


nation that are called upon to deal with all these areas. That is why we honour them so much. 


0 GUAT AF: 


om supratipaya namah 


16. Moving in a contrary manner. 


Su is good or auspicious and Pratipa means retrograde so the name reads as 
‘favourable when retrograde’. It is interesting that some believe that Mars is better when retro- 
grade, more so than Saturn. This name only appears for Mars. Mars may appear destructive 
when it goes retrograde but it also serves a useful purpose. When retrograde, the energy 
is moving more internally and is therefore withdrawn on the outside. This means that Mars 
makes us look inwards or towards the past. If Mars has a connection with spirituality in our 


chart, this can contribute to awakening. 


This name has multiple meanings. ‘Su’ can mean ‘moving’. Mangal has an erratic path 
as observed from the Earth as it is the next planet out from the Earth. Another translation is 
‘easily contrary’. In other words, it takes little to cause Mars to start acting as an opponent. 
One can also take ‘Su’ as ‘very’ so the meaning would be ‘very crooked’. This suggests that 


Mars can promote a wide range of behaviour from the most noble to the most vicious. 
S-Highlightersi--==2--22-i- sae as ossae tosis eden sticaeasec ops roat es nons<scsetods ack ocsceasene scorn sete ace esaissc res 


| am indebted to the scholars of Samskrita Bharati, Nagpur, for another translation 


‘easy of access for everyone’. This is like the name Aparvan (not having a parvan or special 


day) suggesting that special qualifications of time and place are not needed in order to per- 
form his worship. A ruler is naturally a warrior, as kings have to fight to protect their people 
and their status. A good ruler is easily approached. This makes the people contented and 


gives a feeling of justice and security. 


Another definition is ‘the best protector’. Mars signifies the male protector for women 


and, as the police and military, represents those charged with protecting society as a whole. 


Xo UTHTaT 7: 


om sutamraksaya namah 


17. Having beautiful (Su) copper coloured (Tamra) eyes (Aksa). 


Mars represents the metal copper. Some people have irises of this colour. This name 
also means one with deep red or ruby coloured eyes. Mars on the Ascendant can make for a 
little reddishness in the eyes and complexion. Writers often refer to the reddening of the eyes 


when someone becomes angry. 


30 FSI AH: 


om subrahmanyaya namah 


18. The son of Lord Shiva, Subrahmanyam. 


He is also called Skanda or Murugan. It is said of Lord Skanda, that he had greater 
wisdom than his father and taught to Him the meaning of Om which is said to contain all the 
Vedas. Skanda was born from the semen shed on the earth by Lord Shiva and no one could 
bear its extreme Agni or heat. The child born of it was given to the wives of the great Rishis, 
residing in the Pleiades, for fostering. This is the lunar mansion or Nakshatra of Krittika, which 
bridges Aries and Taurus. Krittika is the place of Agni. It has the deepest quality of Mother- 


hood and is especially associated with foster parenting. 


Krittika is where the Moon becomes exalted and so is associated with the perfection 
of the mind. The Jyotisha classics advise one not to undertake travels or other significant 
things such as marriage while the Moon is in Krittika or the previous Nakshatra Bharani. 
This facilitates mental and heart space for the delicate process of purification that permits 
this constellation to reveal its full glory. Anyone born with a planet in Krittika has a special 
connection with deep knowledge through that planet. They may also find some affinity for 
Ramana Maharishi and the wonderful mountain of Arunachala near Tiruvannamalai in Tamil 
Nadu, India. 


After his enlightenment, Ramana Maharishi lived his whole life on the mountain and 
considered it his Guru. He is said to be an incarnation of Skanda and the mountain is said to 
be Shiva in his fire form. There is a great temple at the foot of the mountain that contains the 
Agni linga or symbol of Shiva. The Linga is a stone inside thick stone walls well away from the 
heat of the Sun. When | visited there, | noticed that the sanctus sanctorum was remarkably 


hot while it is usually cool inside these shrines. 


Each planet has two deities associated with it in the system of Vedic Astrology. One 
@Highlighterss*=<$2Spssr2s'22-Assseseeti ens ete sens ee ce cheeses res osen es -scsstserensh cards sensi cccicsstsenene ress eases se 
causes a rising up and one causes a cooling down. The choice of name of a deity is very 


important. The name Subrahmanya is cooling and very sweet and can assist in remedying the 


difficulties caused by an afflicted Mars. That is the value of this mantra. 


Xo TaNcrs AH: 
om sukhapradaya namah 


19. The giver of happiness (Sukha). 


As the auspicious one or Mangala, Mars can give happiness. Its job is to protect and 
the people can enjoy their lives if they are well protected. If well disciplined, the Mars people 
who are those charged with protecting society, are an essential element in society's well- 
being. This includes the army, police and fire fighters. 


So SHEA AH: 
om vakrastambhadigamanaya namah 
20. His movements (Gamana) include being retrograde (Vakra) and standing still (Stambha). 


Good generals know when to advance, when to be stationary and when to retreat. The 


inner Shakti, also Known as the Kundalini energy, has these movements. 


Xo SUIT AA: 


om varenyaya namah 


21. The pre-eminent, most esteemed or desired. 


Varenya also means saffron, a colour related to that of Mars. Mars is the planet of 
celibacy and celibates often wear saffron coloured robes. In India, renunciates do this to 
show that they have performed their funeral rites and have taken the sacred fire inside of 


themselves. The saffron colour symbolizes the colour of fire. That is why the renunciates are 


esteemed and called ‘Maharaj’ (king), which is a term also used for great warriors. 


30 ACCTY AR: 
om varadaya namah 


22. Giving boons (Vara). 


Mars can make anyone inclined to give. Great kings are famous for their generosity 
to those who ask and the Kundalini Shakti is the greatest boon-giver. Those in whom She is 
awake, can give whatever they choose though every gift has its own cost. For example, a 
saint may take someone else’s disease but then she has to bear that in her own body. She 
can also give part of her longevity to another so their length of life is extended but her life 
is shortened. This is how it is explained. Saints can generally bear much more than ordinary 


people and they are least concerned with their own personal comfort or convenience. 


so Etat AH: 
om sukhine namah 
23. Joyful (Sukhin). 


The awakening of the Shakti opens the floodgates of bliss. Even a little Mars energy 
can be a source of joy; one feels alive. 


30 SNACTA AH: 
om virabhadraya namah 
24. One of great power and grace. One of excellent (Bhadra) heroism. A great hero. 


Heroism (Vira) is not the property of a few mythical people. All of us can express it 
when the need arises. Whatever a person does, the common thread is courage and unselfish- 


ness. It is associated with spirituality as it requires one to give up self-centredness. 


0 faeuaa AA: 
om virupaksaya namah 
25. The strange eyed. 


Virupaksa is a name also given to Lord Shiva. It could mean one with some deforma- 


tion to the eyes but here it suggests one with something unusual about the power of seeing. 


Shiva is famous for his ever open third eye. This is opened in a person by the upward move- 


ment of the Shakti, which Mars represents. 


30 TearQxeUa AA: 


om vidurasthaya namah 


26. Established at a far distance (Vidura). Not easy to attain. 


It is said in the Veda that ‘the owner of the house is seen at a distance’ — ‘duredrsarh 
grhapatimatharyum’ (Rig Veda 7.1.1). This describes the state of unbounded consciousness. 
When the Shakti fully rises, the consciousness expands and the owner of the house, the Self, 


is found present even at a very far distance, essentially everywhere. 


If this name is read with a short ‘u’ then the meaning would be different but is still very 
applicable. It means highly intelligent. This version of the name can also mean one who is 
crafty or an intriguer. Kings and generals need to be crafty at times as we see in the way that 
the Mahabharata war was won. The Mahabharata is one of the world's greatest ancient epics 
and it describes a huge battle which occurred some 5,000 years ago in Northern India. The 
key role was played by Shri Krishna. Because of the great power of the enemy, Lord Krishna 
had to advise his side to do several apparently underhanded things. One example was when 
the great and virtually invincible warrior Drona had to be killed. None could succeed but 
Krishna knew that Drona was overly fond of his son Ashwatthaman who was also fighting. 
Krishna was on the side of the Pandava heroes and they had a great elephant who was also 


named Ashwatthaman. 


At some point the cry went up that Ashwatthaman was dead. It was the elephant, 
but Drona did not know that. He approached the Pandava king Yudhishthira to find the 
truth, because he was famous for being the most honest man on Earth. Krishna persuaded 
Yudhishthira to tell a half lie. He said “Yes Ashwatthaman is dead, the elephant’ but the word 
elephant was spoken only indistinctly so Drona did not hear. Drona soon abandoned fighting 
and was quickly murdered by someone who held a great grudge against him. In fact, he had 
abandoned his body by Yogic power before the blow was struck? (see also Jupiter 12). Every 
act has its cost. Up to that time, it is said that Yudhishthira’s chariot had floated a little above 
the ground due to his extreme merit but this half-truth firmly grounded him. Later, he also had 
to briefly visit hell for this, but that famous visit only served to enhance his greatness. The 
wonder of the Vedic stories is that they encompass earth, heaven and hell, and all the worlds, 


uninterrupted by birth and death. 


The syllable Stha suggests being firmly established in, or having that as the basis. 


Power signified by Mars is rooted in wisdom or Vidura. Power does not come from pushiness, 


rather from knowing and subtlety. The power of the inner Shakti arises when we let go of 
pushiness and surrender to the deepest knowing. This level of knowing is very subtle. That is 
Vidura. 


Vidura is also the name of one of the characters in the Mahabharata epic. He was the 
son of the great sage Vyasa by a girl who accepted him lovingly despite his old and wizen 
appearance. He had been asked by his mother to sire a son with the Queen as the King, his 
brother, had died childless. The Queen, finding the sage’s appearance frightening sent her 
maid. As a consequence of the attitude of the maid, their child Vidura grew up exceptionally 


wise, righteous and strictly impartial. Vidura was the ideal exemplar of this name. 


30 faylaqa aH: 


om vibhavasave namah 


27. Having the lustre of gold, or shining (Vibha) like a jewel (Vasu). 


30 ARAAHaAM AA: 
om naksatracakrasamcarine namah 


28. Rotating (Sancarin) through the circle (Chakra) of Nakshatras. 


Sancarin can also mean to join. Mars owns the central Nakshatra in the sequence of 
nine that repeats three times to make up the zodiac. It plays a pivotal role in joining the two 
halves of the sequence of planetary lords. This sequence of nine is the root of the Vedic 
system of Dashdas or planetary cycles that make it such an accurate system of astrology. This 
is discussed further in the chapter on The Secrets of Vimshottari Dasha in the printed version 
of this book. 


Each Graha has a name like this. It connects the inner meanings with the outer 
observed celestial body and points to the idea that each Graha, by its Nakshatra placement 


at birth, creates the drama of life. 


30 AUT AH: 
om ksatrapaya namah 
29. A leading warrior. 


The people of the warrior caste are called Kshatriyas and are signified by Mars. They 


have Ksatra, which means power or dominion. Ksatrapa is a high-ranking warrior such as a 


governor or regional ruler. 


Xo aAeaaa AA: 


om ksatravarjitaya namah 


30. He is destroying the Ksatra, warriorhood or power (of others). 
His enemies are humbled by being defeated by him. 


The rising in us of infinite power, the Kundalini Shakti, leaves us quiet and peaceful and 


devoid of willfulness. 


x0 uAaT ear Aa: 
om ksayavrddhivinirmuktaya namah 


31. Free from both decay (Ksaya) and increase (Vrddhi). 


Violence is the destruction of others health and wealth for one’s own increase. The fully 
awakened state is completely free (Vinirmukta) of this due to its perpetual state of satisfaction. 


So FATETA AA: 
om ksamayuktaya namah 
32. Endowed with patience, restraint and tolerance. 


He is yoked (Yukta) to the quality of forbearance (Ksama). It is his duty and nature. 


30 faqeuray Aq: 


om vicaksanaya namah 


33. Far-sighted (Vicaksana). Wise, learned, skilful, expert, circumspect. 


A good general needs all these qualities and they come with refined consciousness. 
Mars, in the astrological chart, can indicate surgery, engineering, and mathematics all of 
which involve skill and learning. Mars is one of the fire planets (with Sun and Ketu) that can 
give expertise in Astrology. Mars is the Graha that rules the Agni or fire element. Fire is needed 


for success in every field, especially for seeing the future. 


do Tea AH: 


om aksinaphaladaya namah 


34. Giving (Da) endless (Aksina) results (Phajla). 


The awakening of the inner Shakti and its complete unfolding produce an eternal state. 


It transcends death. 


3 aAqnTHpayc AF: 


om caturvargaphalapradaya namah 


35. The giver (Prada) of success (fruits, Phala) to the four (Chatur) divisions (Varga) of life. 


The four divisions can refer to the four classes of people. They are the Brahmins 
(priests and the learned), the Kshatriyas (ruling class), the Vaishyas (business people) and the 
Shudras (workers). The job of the warrior is to protect them all. This allows society to evolve 


peacefully so everyone can enjoy relative satisfaction. 


Life has four divisions: Dnarma, Artha, Kama and Moksha. Dharma is what we do to 
sustain our life and our society. Artha is what we own, our wealth. Kama is our desires and 
enjoyments and Moksha is spiritual liberation. These are the four purposes of human life. The 
spiritual fire or Shakti sustains all of these and gives their fruits. 


Xo SAU AA: 


om vitaragaya namah 


36. Free (Vita) from greediness. 


Mars can often indicate Raga which means passion, greed, anger and envy. In the 
state of Moksha, there is evenness in all this. It is quiet and gentle. The mantra indicates and 


invokes this high spiritual state as well as helping us to overcome the defects of Raga. 


It is the duty of the police and army to allow society to function in peace. This name 
makes clear the importance of these forces being free from corruption. This also applies to 
the lawmakers and executives. If there is greed, then there is crime or defeat and the people 


suffer. 


The real hero takes whatever he or she has and gifts it away to those in need of 
help. Such an act converts a trivial thing into lasting fame. For a great warrior, reputation is 
everything. In the Vedic times, kings and warriors took great pride in their generosity to those 
respectfully asking for help. The great warrior Karna in the Mahabharata, born of the energy 


of the Sun, had an invincible armour. His enemy came and begged the armour and such was 


his pride or his natural generosity that he instantly gave it away, even though this would lead 
to his eventual death. He has been famous for 5,000 years for this act and will likely remain so 


as long as mankind retains its archive of stories. 


This name can also point to the ability to be free from passion. Mars is the one that can 


make us maintain celibacy. 


30 SITY AH: 


om vitabhayaya namah 


37. Fearless. Without (Vita) fear (Bhaya). 


People with a strong Mars are found climbing mountains, surfing 60 foot waves and 
pursuing every other kind of extreme activities. They love it. Achieving the highest state of 
consciousness requires the same sort of fearlessness so that progress is not blocked by fears 


for survival. 


xo fasaqte AH: 
om vijvaraya namah 


38. Free (Vi) from fever, anxiety or distress (Uvara). 


A strong and balanced Mars is excellent for health. When vitiated, Mars can indicate 


fevers and distress due to excess heat in the body. The highest state is free from all dis-ease. 


30 Tagg AH: 


om visvakaranaya namah 


39. Doing or causing (Karana) all things (Visva). 


Everything in a kingdom is done in the name of the king who is naturally a Kshatriya. 
It is as if he is doing everything although he has nothing specific to do. In China where the 
empire was so large, it was said that the ministers got the answers to their questions from 


the way the Emperor's robe fell. The greater the dominion, the more silent that which rules or 


name is given to Mars because he holds the Shakti and it is the Shakti that does everything. 


Xo Fan AA: 


om naksatrarasisamcaraya namah 


40. Moving through (Samcdara) the Nakshatras and the zodiacal signs (Rashis). 


Rashi can mean a collection: a collection of stars or the collection of constellations. 
This emphasizes the importance of the transits of Mars. When other factors concur, Mars 
transiting across some key factor in the natal chart can indicate fevers or even surgery. On 
the societal level, Mars associating closely with the nodes can coincide with violent crimes as 
occurred on 11 September 2001. This was an extreme situation because Mars was passing 
through Mila Nakshatra where it met fiery Ketu while the Moon in a Nakshatra of Mars 
approached Rahu. This movement of the Moon acted as the trigger. Mila Nakshatra is ruled 
by Ketu and can be associated with death but many factors have to come together to create 
such an event. On the other hand, when it is favourable in our chart, Mars transits can bring 


great success. 


Mars can draw his sword and Ketu can be headless. In the worst case, it can be 
dangerous when they both are strong and influencing the chart. Normally, it just makes it 
difficult to know when to stop whatever we are doing even if it is irritating others. In its mild 
forms, this is very common. It can give tremendous persistence, which can lead to significant 
achievements. However, if we see this tendency in ourselves in any area of life, we should 
try to control any headlessness. If we see that others are becoming irritated, we should take 
a time out. Ketu is related to Ganesha, a human form that lost his head for lack of proper 
discrimination and was given an elephant head so that he attained great wisdom. The ele- 


phant indicates the influence of Jupiter. Remembering Ganesha may help. 


Xo AMAIA AA: 


om nanabhayanikrntanaya namah 


41. Destroying (Nikrntana) many kinds of fear (Nanabhaya). 


The awakening of consciousness has this effect. On the societal level, it is the duty of 
government to stop criminals, terrorists and other countries from disturbing the progress of 
the nation. The best leaders are those who have shown great valour, nobility and skill in their 
lives. They should be incorruptible. These names give us all we need to know to judge who 
is suitable. It has been famously said that a nation gets the leader it deserves. Therefore, we 


should all try to deserve the best. 


30 FCO AS Yay AA: 


om vandarujanabandhavaya namah 


42. Surrounded by respectful people (Vandaru Jana). 


Powerful people are always treated with respect. People group around them for pro- 
tection and to share the benefits of their success. President Barack Obama is primarily a Mars 
person. Mars is his AtmaKaraka’*. In the 2008 election, he was competing with Senator John 
McCain who is Venus AtmaKaraka. In both charts, the Atmakaraka falls in exactly the same 
place in the zodiac in royal Leo. So they both wanted to be the President and strongly con- 
tested for it, but Mars dominated. Venus can compete well but it is hard to overcome Mars. 


30 STP ISAT AA: 


om vakrakufcitamdrdhajaya namah 


43. Having straight hair, swept back. 


This is a literal translation. Murddhaja is the hair of the head or a mane so this name 
alludes to the central position of Mars in the sequence of Nakshatra lords as explained in the 
chapter on the Secrets of the Vimshottari Dasha in the printed version of this book. The name 
also means having both retrograde (Vakra) and direct motion (Akuficita). Mars is famous for 
having a particularly variable path through the sky. 


30 HAAN AA: 


om kamaniyaya namah 


44, Lovely, charming (Kamaniya). 


Mars may be fierce at times but he is not devoid of charm. A strong Mars can make a 
person heroic and this can be very attractive. This name has the sound and feeling of loveli- 
ness. Repeat it slowly until you feel its energy permeating your whole being. 


30 TATU AA: 


om dayasaraya namah 


45. Firm in compassion (Daya). It is his essence (Sara). 


Mars is naturally fiery. In Ayurveda, this is called Pitta and a classic Pitta type is a 
classic Mars type. As long as Mars is not afflicted, it blazes up easily but quickly calms down 
and can show deep compassion. He will fight with great strength but never attacks the weak 
and the unarmed. Whatever a person’s prowess in fighting or competing, the mark of their 
greatness is their willingness to protect or save those weaker than them. 


Xo HAHAH YI AA: 


om kanatkanakabhusanaya namah 


46. Shining with golden (Kanatkanaka) ornaments (Bhusana). 


Traditional leaders are surrounded with gold. It shows their wealth and power. The 
main idea is to give a golden aura or a lustre to dazzle the people, hence the reference to 


‘shining’. Even promotions in the military generally mean more gold — stripes, braid, stars. 


Obviously the origin of this is the golden aura of great souls. It is always said of divine 
personages who appear in visions that they shine. Those who want to project kingship imi- 
tate this. 


The carriages of royalty used to be covered in gold. Then Queen Victoria’s beloved 
husband, Prince Albert, died. She went into mourning and never came out of it. She lived 
a very long time so Britain, then the dominant power in the world, remained in mourning 
for 40 years. All London’s colourful iron railings were painted black and everyone followed 
the Queen's lead and drove around in black vehicles. Over 100 years later, almost all of the 
railings are still black and all over the world, the leaders drive in black cars. | think they have 
forgotten the reason why. The current Queen of England's carriages are still black but all the 
frills are gold. The Gold State Coach, built well before Albert died, is completely covered in 
gold leaf except where there are exquisite paintings. Black is the colour of Saturn indicating 
sorrow. Saturn is also related to democracy so most current leaders may feel that it is best to 


stay with the tradition of black vehicles. 


30 WqEqTy AH: 


om bhayaghnaya namah 
47. Removing (Ghna) fear (Bhaya). 


When the Shakti awakes, that is the true end of fear. 


Mars is the significator for courage and the third house of the chart. This house shows 
our courage and valour. A strong person makes those around them free of fear. Society 
depends on its strongest and bravest members, the heroes and champions, and the movies 


play endlessly on this. 


so WoaMdaAcy Aq: 


om bhavyaphaladaya namah 


48. Giving excellent and auspicious (Bhavya) results (Phala). 


30 HMTAATUCIA AA: 


om bhaktabhayavarapradaya namah 


49. Blessing (Varaprada) the devotee (Bhakta) with fearlessness (Abhaya). 


If we want a strong person to protect us, we show them great respect. In a crisis, the 
protector has to be obeyed. That is why soldiers are taught to follow the orders of superiors 
without question and, on ships and aircraft, the captain’s word is final. If one stops to question 
or entertain doubt about the leader in an emergency, then one is at grave danger. Therefore, 
if there is a crisis, one person has to be given charge and everyone else must simply do what 
he or she is told. As emergencies come suddenly and unexpectedly, we should try to develop 
a habit of accepting good advice. We should teach this to our children by our example. In 
any partnership, each person has strong and weak areas. On our own, we can be in trouble 
because of our weak areas but in a team, we can succeed. We should understand where we 
are less competent and simply trust and obey the other who has demonstrated greater com- 
petence in that area. This way, the team or personal relationship has few if any weak links. 


Just because a man or woman has let us down in the past, does not mean that every 
man or woman will do so in the present or future. Somehow, we have to find a way to be sim- 
ple in the present and not a victim of past negative experiences. Be alert to the present signs 
and symptoms without imagining any. Pay especial care to what people say when you first 
talk to them. Keep quiet and give them free rein. In a few minutes, you will know exactly what 
they want from their relationship with you. Believe that, and not any expectations or hopes 
you might be harbouring. Certain combinations between two astrological charts can give ex- 


traordinary depth to a relationship and that will usually show in some way at the beginning. 


The ultimate protector is the cosmic will. To get its protection, we have to give it our 
continuous attention. This is devotion. If we get a glimpse of the cosmic vastness, it absorbs 
our attention and if that continues, a merger takes place so there is no longer any concept of 


separation. In that state, fear goes away. It is a characteristic of that fortunate state. 


xo WAe=a AA: 


om Satruhantre namah 


50. Destroying (Hantr) the enemy (Shatru). 


Mars can be excellent in the sixth house of the Vedic chart, the house of all types of 


enemies. Enemies can be external as well as internal, such as disorders of the mind and the 
body. His strong presence there helps to overcome these difficulties in oneself and others. 


This placement may motivate us towards medical, legal, security and other such professions. 


30 WAM Aa: 


om Samopetaya namah 


51. Peaceful. Endowed (Upeta) with evenness (Shama). 


Those who have to fight should be able to stay calm. Your opponents will try to make 
you angry. During the Second World War, at the time when Germany had almost succeeded 
in destroying British air defences as their precursor to invasion, one British bomber dropped a 
few small bombs on Berlin. In a fit of anger, Hitler wrecked his own plan, ensuring British sur- 


vival. Anger and arrogance are the fatal flaws of a leader. 


30 YUOMNTAUTIUT AH: 


om Saranagataposanaya namah 


52. Supporting (Posara) those who seek refuge (Sharana Agata) in him. 


People with real strength will protect us if we appeal to them for assistance. Mars has 
two signs, Aries and Scorpio. In Aries, there is much nobility. Scorpio is excellent for research 
and can help awaken the mind’s deeper powers and insight. Both Aries and Scorpio can give 


leaders. 


3p aera A: 


om sahasine namah 


53. Daring (Sahasin). Also bold, impetuous, rash, even ferocious. 


3) TGMeaaTa TA: 


om sadgunadhyaksaya namah 


54. Presiding over the qualities of truth and purity. 


SadGuna is the quality of truth (Saf) or purity. Adhyaksha means to preside over. This 
name tells us that we have to look at the situation of Mars in the chart to determine truth 


and purity. Mars is a mixture of Tamas and Rajas but a clear unafflicted Mars usually gives 


truthfulness, as it is a part of honour, and other good qualities. This is found in the charts of 
most saints. The association of Mars with the Sun, the pre-eminent Graha of truth, intensifies 
the good qualities though it is influenced by the sign in which they are placed. 


0 UNaa AA: 


om sadhave namah 


55. The enlightened one (Sadhu). 


The nature of a Sadhu is to go straight to the goal and to be efficient and effective. 
Sadhu is a word with a wide range of meanings. They all point to the qualities that make 
for success and goodness such as honesty and chastity. While the negative side of Mars, 
fighting and cruelty, will destroy a relationship, the positive side is highly supportive. All the 
influences on the natal Mars must be carefully studied. The greatest challenges arise from any 
admixture with Saturn, Rahu or Ketu. However, these associations can also prove beneficial 
in certain circumstances. In particular, Saturn can give Mars discipline (see also Mars 62). 


Mars rules three Nakshatras, Mrgasirsa, Chitra and Dhanistha. These Nakshatras 
equally straddle the earth and air signs. For example, half of Mrgasirsa is in Taurus and the 
other half in Gemini. Many saints have their Moon in one of these as it unites the two Moksha 
Nakshatras, the Janma Nakshatra and the one before it. The assignment to Moksha is ex- 
plained in the Chapter on Secrets of the Vimshottari Dasha in the printed version of this book. 


30 TAGS A AA: 
om samaradurjayaya namah 
56. Unconquerable. 


Literally, difficult to overcome (Durjaya) in a conflict (Samara). This includes meetings 
of all kinds including negotiations. Mars represents those who will fight back and fight hard. 
This can be as true of the warrior as it is of the saint, just in different ways with different 
manifestations. 


so CREA FH: 


om dustadtraya namah 


57. One from whom wickedness (Dusta) is far removed (Dara). 


Those in royal, government or security service should be of exemplary character. For 


such employers, background checks are normal but it would also be good to study Mars in 
the Vedic chart. 


30 PISA FH: 
om SsistapUjyaya namah 
58. Worthy of honour (Pijya) by the wise. 


Shista is the disciplined, the learned, the cultured and the wise. Each of these has their 
own reason for honouring one with a dominant Mars. The wise seek one with a fully evolved 


Shakti as such a one can give help with spiritual liberation. 


30 UaHPAARHTA AH: 


om sarvakastanivarakaya namah 


59. Completely preventing all misfortunes (Sarva Kastfa). 


No one should have to suffer when under the protection of a true warrior. More so 
for those who have taken the initiation of a true saint and are obediently following. However, 
everyone is ultimately subject to their own destiny. To live with Mars, obedience and devotion 
are the keys. For Mars, compassion is the key. 


30 CATACH AH: 
om duscestavarakaya namah 
60. Obstructing (Varaka) inauspicious actions (Duscesta). 


This is the job of the police and security forces. The presence of the awakened has 
this effect also, though mainly invisibly. In the Yoga Sutras (2.35) it says, ‘In the presence of 
purified consciousness that is naturally free of any harmful intention, all hostility ceases.’ (See 


also Jupiter 80.) 


x0 Gaya AH: 


om duhkhabhanhjanaya namah 


61. Dispelling (@hanjana) misery (Dukha). Both within and without. 


xo COUT A: 


om durdharaya namah 


62. Irresistible. 


Durdhara can also mean unrestrainable. A strong Mars is difficult to resist. An afflicted 
Mars can cause a lot of trouble in society. Mars Rahu and Mars Ketu combinations can be 


3 Highlighters: --=-<e00%- 22-5522 <cceree seer ecre ccs sts cn sescaseereses 
very difficult. However, in a mature soul, either can generate the awakening of the Kundalini 


energy, which is also irresistible and unrestrainable. In fact, the subtle activation of the energy 
may be ‘the cause of ‘social and personal difficulties when it energizes an unprepared mind. If 


so, then properly guided Yoga practice can be very beneficial. 


30 EG AA: 


om haraye namah 


63. The Lord. 


Hari is a well-known name of Lord Vishnu. It means to carry or bear, which is why it is 
associated with Vishnu, the maintainer. It can also mean a lion and the sign Leo. This fero- 
cious and regal connection may be why it is a name of Mars. While Leo is ruled by the Sun, 
Mars is the Yoga Karaka for Leo, which means it is the one who carries out the great achieve- 
ments of Leo, like a general who conquers on behalf of his king. 


Hari can also mean the one who siezes or takes away our sins. This is the Grace of 
God. Without His help, we can never escape from the web of our illusions. By this name 
appearing here, we realize it is the Shakti of the Lord that saves us. Mars is the holder of the 
Shakti. 


Those whose chart is ruled or dominated by Mars should be careful not to use their 
power to take from others. Mars gives power and this can bring the temptation to do what 
one wants. We should keep saying this mantra with the intention “Lord take away my harmful 


tendencies. Make me a blessing for everyone.” 


30 Gtarsena aa: 


om duhsvapnahantre namah 


64. Destroying (Hantr) bad dreams (Duhsvapna). 


Malefics in the twelfth house of the chart can indicate sleep problems including bad 
dreams. Mars is a malefic but, when auspicious, he can help us. This is not surprising 


because bad dreams are generally about fear and a strong Mars removes all fear. If we do 


well with meditation, which Mars can facilitate, then the relaxation can help relieve the mental 


stresses that cause disturbed sleep. 


xo COaTy AA: 


om durdharsaya namah 


65. Difficult to be assailed (Durdharsa). 


He is dangerous to attack. It also means one who is inaccessible. Everything is 
accessible compared to that pure Being and yet it is our very Soul. Because it is not an object, 
we can never get it in front of our eyes; it is always behind our eyes. One can only know It by 


being It. 


Another related meaning is haughty or distant. A person who is proud of their strength 
may appear like this. From the spiritual view, the Self is distant as much as it is near. Knowing 


It as what we are, we also see our Self at a vast distance, present in everything. 


Xo SPNSTAqAATT AA: 


om dustagarvavimocanaya namah 


66. Completely removing (Vimochana) arrogance (Garva) and wickedness (Dusta). 


Dustagarva can mean false pride. The arrogance of one Mars type is removed by 
meeting a stronger such person. However, this can be an endless succession of conflict. The 
inner awakening genuinely removes all arrogance. If some spiritual teacher has any compet- 
itive sense with any other spiritual teacher, then it is unlikely that he has really surrendered. 


Many people have some inner experience but that is not liberation. 


Another bad sign is when the teacher pins the disciples to him. This is called Kilaka. 
There are special mantras that can be used to bind people and lesser deities. Only a petty ego 
will indulge in such things. The disciple has to stay or go as he or she chooses. The master 
can choose to teach or not. It should be all automatic, as the Divine will dictates. The mantras 


in this book can help. 


30 AIP ga AA: 


om bharadvajakulodbhitaya namah 


67. Born (Udbhuta) in the family (Kula) of the sage Bharadwdja. 


Brahmarishi Bharadwaja is one of the Sapta Rishis or seven great sages and was 


noted for punishing the wicked and protecting the weak and indigent. In his travels, he ob- 
served how the people were very poor and were being looted by criminals. He established a 
school by the banks of the mighty Saraswati River where he taught the correct way of living 
and educated the Kshatriyas in proper administration and the use of arms to defeat the rob- 
ber barons. Bharadwaja, seeing the people suffering from terrible diseases, propitiated Indra, 
King of Heaven, and learnt the science of Ayurveda. It says in the beginning of the Charaka 
Samhita that this science had not been needed in earlier times because the people were 
righteous and did not fall ill. The decline in the minds of the people led to diseases and so the 
medical science had to be revived. This was accomplished by the sage Bharadwaja at the re- 


quest of the other sages. 


One incident was particularly noticeable. Bharadwaja had two righteous kings as his 
disciples. They were attacked by evil minded and powerful kings and great trouble was 
brought to the people. Bharadwaja helped them and they defeated the attackers. Since the 
evil kings had been plundering everywhere, they had vast riches. The noble kings who had 
acquired this wealth donated all of it to Bharadwaja. He explained to them that gold brings 
greed and is only trouble to one living a simple life but, once given, they would not take it 
back. Then Bharadwaja distributed it amongst the poor people and poverty was removed 
from the land. 


| once visited a West African country. The President had been in power for quite some 
years but eventually was forced to leave. After that, | read that the overseas debt of the 
country was $1 billion while the estimated wealth of the exiled President was also $1 billion. 
Hardly any country can claim never to have had the public purse looted and it is always at the 
cost of health, education and social services. Surely we need a school for administrators run 


by Bharadwaja today. 


Xo THAT AA: 


om bhusutaya namah 


68. Son (Suta) of the Earth (Bhd). 


This is one of various names with the same general meaning. However, each one has 
a different sense depending on the actual words used. Bhd is the earth because it means the 
place of being as also becoming. It means that he springs from the place of being, which is 
clearly the Self. That is why Bhd is associated with the Muladhara Chakra, which lies at the 
base of the spine. Our Shakti rises from there and so this is the source of our life. Knowing 
That, we become the knower of the movements of the Shakti. Otherwise, we are pushed here 


and there by its constantly changing tendencies. Mahi (Mars 1) is the sphere of the Earth. Bha 


is our place of being and becoming. They are both in the feminine gender so refer to Earth as 
the Mother. 


Another interesting angle on this name is as follows: Bht is the first of the three worlds, 
which are the earth, the sky and the heavens. As such, Bhi can stand for the number one and 
can indicate the first house in the Vedic chart, the self, and Suta the fifth, the house of chil- 


dren. The first and the fifth are the principal places of power. Mars is all about power. 


so Fou AH: 


om bhavyabhisanaya namah 


69. Auspiciously (Bhavya) decorated (Bhisana). 


Here we begin on a section explaining his appearance. This name not only means 
someone wearing fine and appropriate clothing but it also means one decorated with excel- 


lent qualities such as right conduct. 


0 THEATT AA: 
om raktambaraya namah 


70. Wearing blood red (Rakta) clothes (Ambara). 


Mars is the red planet. In the chart, it is the marker of celibacy. Celibate saints wear 
orange or red and so do brides at their marriage in India, perhaps to demonstrate their purity 
just as they wear white in the West. Rakta also indicates the red blood cells and these are 
produced by the bone marrow, which is signified by Mars. When Mars is afflicted, there may 
be diseases of the blood. Those with Mars strongly influencing the Ascendant are often found 
wearing red apart from having a reddish hue to their appearance and the hair may be a little 


reddish as well. 


xo THATS AH: 


om raktavapuse namah 


71. Red-bodied (Rakta Vapus). 


When we look at Mars in the sky, we see that it has a red colour. Rakta means both red 
and blood. In the Ramayana, the great epic describing the life of the divine Avatar Lord Rama, 
there are poetic descriptions of Rama during battle after he received hundreds of wounds and 


was covered in blood. The poet likens it to those trees that are covered with blood red flowers 


during the time of their blossoming. Those with a strong Mars, or subject to the transit of Mars 
are often found with such decorations due to fights and accidents. If Mars is in the Ascen- 


dant, there is usually a scar somewhere on the face (where the blood ran). 


30 YAU AA: 


om bhaktapalanatatparaya namah 


72. Intent (Tatpara) on protecting (Palana) the devotees (Bhakta). 


His very focus is on protecting those who have sought his shelter. Mars can make 
good policemen and soldiers as well as kings and leaders. This name appears amongst sev- 
eral names that are obviously associated with the form of Mars. Therefore it tells us about his 


look. His entire appearance is coloured by alertness to his duty. 


Xo ACS AA: 


om caturbhujaya namah 


73. Four armed (Chatur Bhuja). 


Here the divine form is being described. Some planets have four hands, some two. 
Mars has four to carry various weapons and still have a hand to grant blessings. The weapons 
are mentioned next. 


Xo TeTenhot AH: 


om gadadharine namah 


74. Carrying (Dharin) a mace or club (Gada). 


The club was a popular weapon amongst the strongest warriors. They were heavy and 
thus needed great strength to wield. Both Hanuman and Bhima carried a club. Hanuman’s 
story is told in the Ramayana and Bhima’s in the Mahabharata. Both are leading characters. 
Hanuman is the invincible leader of the monkey army and Lord Rama’s greatest devotee. 
Bhima is the brother of Arjuna and the strongest man on Earth. They were both said to 
be sons of the wind god and thus of immense strength. When wind mixes with fire, it is 
irresistible. Hanuman is associated with Mars and many people with Mars in or ruling the fifth 
house of the Vedic chart feel a special attachment to him. The fifth house is one of the places 


in the chart that shows the nature of our devotion. 


xo Fae AH: 


om mesavahaya namah 


75. Riding a ram (Mesa Vaha). 


The sign Aries is symbolized by a ram. This is the more powerful of the two signs of 
Mars. In Vedic Astrology it is called the MulaTrikona sign. It means that he is more focused 
on his duty as a protector in Aries than in Scorpio. Hence, he prefers this vehicle over the 
scorpion. Sometimes, like a ram, he may lower his head and charge. Scorpio is an even sign 
and a water sign so it is more restrained. Scorpio is like the underwater volcano. It seems 
calm but can erupt if sufficiently incited. It has great mental or psychic power and is the nat- 


ural sign of research. 


0 TRAITS AA: 


om mitasanaya namah 


76. Limiting his food (Ashana) intake. It is measured (Mita). 


Mars will control his consumption to achieve his goals. He can also be measured in his 
reach or action to ensure success. His goals may be higher or lower, more or less egocentric, 
depending on the influences on Mars. If Venus is associated with Mars, one may oscillate 
between enjoyment and control. As natural leaders, strong Martian types can seem very con- 
trolling to others just as the police appear to be to protesters. Of course, for the police, they 


are just doing their job. 


x0 OTHMAN AA: 


om SaktisGladharaya namah 


77. Carrying a Shakti and a spear. 


The Shakti is both his female consort, who is herself the power that he supports, and 
any weapon or tool that expresses that power. The Shula is a sharp pointed instrument of 
any kind. Thus we find Mars leading people into the professions of surgery, acupuncture, 
hairdressing (scissors) and so forth as well as giving a capacity to dig deep intellectually. 
Those with a strong capacity of abstract reasoning have a strong Mars. For instance, when in 
an intellectual sign like Gemini, it often makes mathematicians. Mars and Mercury combina- 


tions like this can also produce engineers including IT professionals. 


There are two deities associated with Mars: Hanuman and Skanda. Hanuman caries 
a mace (Mars 74) and Skanda a spear. Both weapons are mentioned in these mantras. 
When we want protection, we use a mantra describing the chosen deity holding that special 
weapon for which they are famous. The word weapon covers any object that is carried to in- 


dicate a type of intervention. For example, a lotus flower can show spiritual awakening. 


30 Iply AG: 


om Saktaya namah 


78. Very competent (Shakta). 


Mars people are very capable. That is why we trust them to build bridges, compute the 


orbits of spacecraft and play any number of critical roles. 


30 WeAagqiamtard AA: 


om Sastravidyavisaradaya namah 


79. Fully knowledgeable (Visharada) in the science (Vidya) of weaponry (Shastra). 


Shastra has two main meanings. The first is a weapon and the second is praise or 
invocation. Mars is expert in praising his superiors to obtain their support and in wielding 
weapons. In the ancient Vedic times, there were subtle weapons that had to be invoked with 
special mantras. These weapons were usually capable of finding their target autonomously. 


The greatest warriors learnt these skills. 


The awakened soul is expert in the sacred praises, which awaken the support of the 


highest powers in nature. 


30 Genta AA: 


om tarkikaya namah 


80. Logician (Tarkika). 


Mars can indicate those who love logic. Therefore, if you are having trouble with a Mars 
type, first show respect, then try logic. Note the logic should be good or they may get irri- 


tated again! 


Here we have a series of names (Mars 80-84) that start with ‘Ta’ or ‘Ta’. ‘Ta’ is 
impassable, insurmountable and inaccessible. ‘Ta’ has many meanings including a warrior 


and virtue. On the other hand, ‘Ta’ can mean sickness and ‘Ta’ can mean bad character so 


alertness is always needed to manifest the highest values, which is always possible. These 


mantras help bring out these values. 


30 AMATI AH: 


om tamasadharaya namah 


81. Containing (Adhara) darkness (Tamasa) or the one wearing snakes. 


Here we are alerted to the great weakness of Mangal. It is associated with Tamas, 
which means darkness, ignorance or carelessness. This is why violence is meant to be the 
last resort as it brings all kinds of miseries, however noble the cause. Presidents and kings 
who have Mars as their strongest planet may say that they have tried all other means first 
before launching an attack, but often observers cannot find much evidence of this. If you are 
a senior leader and Mars is your strongest planet, then you instinctively know that your top 
job depends on keeping a state of war going. This is because, when under threat, people will 
look to Mars for protection. Therefore, it is wise that the top leadership is given to the Sun or 


Jupiter, supported by Mars. 


Why? These three rule Grahas over the signs of the zodiac that have Dharma as their 
goal. Dharma is that which supports life and living and therefore it is their job to maintain so- 
ciety. We should not give the job to the other planets as they have different agendas. The Sun 
rules by sheer authority. It was said that the British built huge government buildings in India 
so that ‘the appearance of power would obviate the need for the use of it’. Of course, this has 
been a standard of rulers since the earliest times. Jupiter rules by wise guidance. That is why 
he makes a great team with the Sun since he is not interested in power for its sake. Mars rules 


by wielding force, which only works in the short term. 


When Tamasadhara means wearing snakes, it signifies having the power over death. 
This is how Lord Shiva and His Shakti are often portrayed. The Supreme Being alone has 


power over death and can bestow immortality. 


xo Tatay AA: 


om tapasvine namah 


82. Possessed of Tapas. 


Tapas is conservation of energy through self-control. Having said that Mars is asso- 
ciated with Tamas, further elaboration is needed. Tamas is darkness and ignorance. When 
one sees one’s ignorance, the proper response is to seek to awaken the light of life in that 


darkness. This can only be done by concentrating whatever Shakti one has to a point. That 


means bringing one’s attention to bear on that darkness. The darkness is in the field of silence 
of the mind. The thoughts carry little bits of light due to their movement so let them cease. 
Then, by paying continuous attention to that silence, soon a great light arises. This is the 


awakening of the Shakti. 


Tapas can be translated as religious austerity and Mars bestows the capacity for this, 
but it also means any process that concentrates the spiritual energy. That is why Mars is also 


the planet of celibacy. It is all about conserving energy. 


In India, the (two month) season at the end of Winter is called Tapas. Winter represents 
darkness and quiet and can be conducive to deep meditation. Out of that, the light of the new 
Spring comes just as the fertile Nakshatra Rohini of the Moon follows Krittika where it is good 
to keep calm and concentrated. Krittika is said to be the birth place of Skanda, the Devata of 


Mars (see also Mars 18). 


Tapas is also pain. A strong Mars can help with bearing pain. 


xo TAMAS AA: 
om tamralocanaya namah 


83. Having copper-coloured (Tamra) eyes (Lochana). 


This can mean a fiery vision, as if burning up the enemy. Mars indicates the metal 
copper. There was a phase of human history when it was the best metal available for making 


weapons. 


30 THAIN AF: 
om taptakafcanasamkasaya namah 
84. Shining (Samkasha) like molten gold (Tapta Kaficana). 


This particularly refers to the aura of the awakened. The word Tapta means that this 
aura has been produced by a process that generates heat. Yogic practices like Pranayama 
can have this effect. After some time of intensive practice under expert guidance, the body 


may begin to glow. 


Tapta Kaficana can indicate the carrying out of a life-time vow or austerity and the 


shining aura is the result. 


30 Tepe gems AF: 


om raktakifjalkasannibhaya namah 


85. Resembling (Sannibha) the red rose. 


Kinjalka means the flower of the Indian rose. It can also refer to the filament of a plant, 
which is the stem that supports the anther. This produces the pollen (male seed) that is 
used to fertilize the female part of the plant. Much can be drawn from this name including a 
reference to the subtle Nadis in the body that rise up the spine from the lotus at the base and 
support the cortex. Rakta means red, which is the colour of passion. Even though capable of 


control, Mars is always passionate. 


30 THAISTUCATA AA: 


om gotra’dhidevaya namah 


86. Ruling over family lines (Gotra). 


Adhideva is the presiding deity. It is said that a small number of sages came to earth 
and each one started a Gotra, a clan or family which is known by their name. There is the 
Vasistha Gotra, the Bhrigu Gotra, and so forth. To avoid interbreeding, marriage was between 
Gotras with the children taking the Gotra of their father. This was the original structure of so- 
ciety long before caste and creed took hold. 


Gotra literally means an enclosure, i.e. that which surrounded the tribe. By extension, 
this came to mean a multitude of people as tribes grew. The warrior has to protect his tribe 
and thus the leading warrior becomes the leader of the clan. Gotra can indicate the family 
name so protecting its honour can become a great issue for Mars. Gotra is also a cow stall 


and this implies Mars is the guardian of the community wealth. 


Xo THASTAUT AA: 


om gomadhyacaraya namah 


87. Moving in the midst of the Grahas. 


Go are the cows and by extension the planets. He moves (Chara) in the midst (Madhya) 
of them. Leaving out the Earth, Mars is in the middle of the sequence of visible planets which 
is why it is of particular interest to us. Even though it cannot sustain life life on its surface 
because it lacks a protective magnetic field, we like to think it could so we might have 
somewhere to expand to. Mars’ position as the central lord of the sequence of Nakshatras is 
of great importance in Vedic Astrology. This is discussed in the Chapter about the Secrets of 


the Vimshottari Dasha in the printed version of this book. 


In this name, there is a strong sense of leadership, of one who moves surrounded by 


his followers and wealth. 


Xo TOTS TAU AH: 


om gunavibhisanaya namah 


88. Decorated (Vibhisana) with all good qualities (Guna). 


He is decorated by his various good virtues and exceptional qualities. Those whose 
charts are dominated by Mars will be encouraged by this mantra. Emulating this excellent 
attribute comes naturally or is well within their grasp. Mars’ reputation is his greatest wealth, 
so their good deeds and noble adherence to the high road in matters of behaviour will cer- 


tainly be praised by others. 


xo sat AH: 


om asrje namah 


89. Like blood or saffron (As). 


This is a more direct reference to the colour of Mars than in Mars 21. It also indicates 
the connection to the red part of the blood. 


30 TST AH: 


om angarakaya namah 


90. Like smouldering charcoal (Angaraka). 


This is one of the most famous names of Mars and is particularly descriptive of the 
colour of the planet. Fire is inherent in charcoal, so the hint is that Mars can flare up too. 
You only have to blow a little. That is why a pecking order and proper etiquette are so vital 
amongst warriors, the natural ruling class. The more powerful the person is that one meets, 
the greater the care one has to take with one's behaviour. Since one never really knows who 
a person is when one first meets them, giving respect to all is a very good habit to cultivate, 


especially in the growing youth. 


x0 TAA C MAMMA AA: 


om avantidesadhisaya namah 


91. Ruling (Adhisha) over the land (Desha) of Avant. 


Avanti was an ancient kingdom in West-Central India. The capital, Mahishmati, stood 
on the banks of the famous Narmada River. This is close to the modern Indore. The kings of 
Avanti were involved in various wars with the Pandavas as described in the Mahabharata. 


In one story”, it relates how the fire god Agni, the Devata of Mars, stayed at Mahish- 
mati. One day he took human form and was caught romancing the daughter of the king. When 
threatened with punishment, he blazed up. Seeing this, the king Nila honoured the god and 
bestowed on him his daughter. Pleased, Agni offered Nila a boon and the king requested that 
his army would not face fear in battle. Agni agreed. After that, other kings were careful not to 
attack that city. One additional consequence of this boon was that the women of Avanti be- 
came fully emancipated. When a Pandava, Sahadeva, advanced on the city, Agni protected 
it. Sahadeva’s army was in danger but he worshipped Agni, who blessed him and caused an 
amicable conclusion. He and Nila met in friendship. When Mars is in its own signs, then it 
functions like Agni. These stories help us understand the consequences of this Graha in our 
lives. 


30 SATE AA: 


om janardanaya namah 


92. Exciting the people. 


Janardana is a famous name of Lord Krishna. His appearance was so magnetic it ex- 
cited everyone. This name can also mean disturbing or giving pain to people. In other words, 
a strong Mars has a profound effect, exhilarating or disturbing. For any person, it depends 
on how much Sattva he has and what the attitude of the people are towards him. Those who 
attacked Shri Krishna or gave trouble to his people were destroyed by his might. Those who 
honoured him enjoyed great good fortune. 


Xo EAT TMC TEM AH: 


om suryayamyapradesasthaya namah 


93. Standing (Stha) to the South of Sarya, the Sun (in the Graha Mandala). 


Mars rules over the Southern direction (Yamya Pradesha). Capricorn and Aquarius are 
considered to be in the South as Aries is the natural East. Mars is exalted in Capricorn. Both 
these signs are ruled by Saturn and when Saturn and Mars join, then great power arises, 
which can prove deadly if provoked. The guardian of the South is Yama. He is the god of 


death and determines the path followed by the soul in this world and the next. He rules 
Bharant Nakshatra in the middle of Aries and is pleased by righteous conduct. He embodies 


the concept of karma: As you sow, so shall you reap. 


a0 Ut AA: 


om yune namah 


94. United. 


Yuni means a string, cord or connection. It is related to the word Yoga or union. Yuni is 
what binds together. The meaning here is that he is like a Yogi. He is an integrated person. He 


helps society maintain its integrity. 


Creatively, this name could indicate all the cables, wires and wireless waves that 
connect machines and thence us. Mars represents electricity and every kind of energy flow. 


He is indicative of computers and engineers, especially when associated with Mercury. 


so UTES AH: 


om yamyaharinmukhaya namah 


95. Facing (Mukha) to the South of the Sun. 


Harin can mean the Sun. It can also mean a quarter of the sky so Yamyaharin means 
the Southern quarter. Harin also means a lion or a monkey. In the South, Mars has great 
strength like a lion. It also points at the connection between Mars and Hanuman, the great 
monkey warrior who assisted Shri Rama recover his wife Sita (Seeta) from the demon king 
Ravana. This story is told in the great epic, the Ramayana. Worshipping Hanuman can help 
with Mars problems (see Mars 74). 


This, along with Mars 93, tells the priest how to position the Murti or statue of Mangala 
in the Navagraha Mandala. This Mandala is a set of nine statues used in the worship of the 
planets. Both the position and the direction faced are important for each Graha. In Vedic 
Astrology there is a very important concept called directional strength. Both the Sun and Mars 
have directional strength in the South, which is in that part of the Vedic chart where one finds 
the mid-heaven or tenth house. This is alluded to here. Note Mars 94 is between two names 
that are obviously related. The reference to union tells us that the Sun and Mars are naturally 
associated in this regard. The South is related to midday. If someone is born around apparent 
midday and/or with Mars at the Zenith, then they have a special blessing that can give them 
high status in life. 


xo FAVS AA: 


om trikonamandalagataya namah 


96. Indicated (Gata) by a triangle (Trikona). 


This is the symbol (Mandala) for the Pija for Mars. Just as the Moon is indicated by a 
square and is the significator (Karaka) for the fourth house in the chart, so Mars is the signi- 
ficator for the third and also for aspects of the sixth house (2 x 3). Six indicates two triangles 
and the great cosmic symbol is made up of two triangles interlaced making a six-pointed star, 
the primal Shri Chakra, as discussed in Sun 42. The third house is the house of courage, the 
sixth of conflict and struggle. The ninth is the battlefield (8 x 3) and the twelfth is the departure 
from this life (4 x 3). This sequence of houses has its basis in the third, where the weapon is 


picked up. 


xo Fremtyraaaa Aa: 
om tridasadhipasannutaya namah 


97. Worshipped (Sannuta) by Indra — literally, lord of the 3 x 10 (Tri Dasha) gods (Achipa), 
though this is usually interpreted as meaning 33 gods. 


Indra is like the executive head of the cosmic government, and he commands the 
natural law. He may hinder those whose meditation has reached an advanced stage because, 
once they achieve their goal, he will have to worship them. There was an occasion when the 
demonic forces became too strong, and the only solution was for a son of Shiva to command 
the army of the gods and overcome the demon. That son’s name is Skanda, Mururgan or 


Karttikeya and he is associated with Mars. Indra worshipped him to achieve his end. 


Under Mercury (31), we note that a similar name with Tridasha hinted at the division 
of the sign into three sections. These are called Drekkanas and this division creates the 
Drekkana or D3 chart. A version of this chart is used to see enterprise and courage, which is 
ruled over by Mars. Another shows siblings, also signified by Mars. The reference to worship 
indicates something important. The Devatas or deities of the three divisions in each sign are 


three great sages: Narada of the first, Agastya of the second and Durvasa of the the last. 


Narada is a divine Rishi who travels between Heaven and Earth triggering situations 
where individual weaknesses are tested causing much growth. Agastya is the great Rishi who 
calmed the rise of the mountains in Central India. Perhaps this rise was due to tectonic plate 
activity but legend says it was due to the teasing of Narada. The mountains were calmed by 


Agastya moving to the South. There, he authored the South Indian language of Tamil and its 


grammar and numerous wisdom and medical texts. He also wrote Nadi texts of Astrology that 


have become world famous for their instant readings. 


Durvasa is a very great Rishi, who is famed for his short temper. He also triggered 
key events by his appearance at awkward moments leading to him cursing the key individual 
involved. Narada is especially associated with Vishnu. Agastya is known for his supreme 
devotion to the Goddess. Durvasa is an incarnation of Shiva. Depending where our Mars falls, 


paying respect to that appearance of Divinity may help us manage the Mars’ areas of our life. 


30 Way AH: 


om sucaye namah 


98. Pure (Shuchi), in every sense. 


This can be taken as related to celibacy. Skanda (Mars) wanted to marry but he has 
a brother Ganesha (Ketu) and only one could be the first to marry. Their parents, Lord Shiva 
and Parvati, declared that the first to circumnavigate the whole world would be granted that 
honour. Skanda rides on a fine peacock while Ganesha only has a little mouse. So it seemed 
a certain win for Skanda. He flew off. Ganesha, as one can guess from the elephant head, is 
exceptionally intelligent. He walked around his parents and then advised them that the Vedic 
texts say that circumambulating one’s parents is equal to going around the whole world. They 
agreed, so before Skanda returned, Shri Ganesha was married. Lord Skanda became angry 
and left his parents vowing to remain single, which meant to maintain celibacy. 


One thing this story tells us is that Mars represents celibacy but not necessarily of 
one’s first choosing. Those who have a strong Mars may refrain from intercourse for many 
reasons. Whatever the motivation, the ability to maintain that state comes with this planet. 
If you partner with someone with a strong Mars and they become annoyed, they may well 
become unavailable. Thus, the connection between Venus and Mars (for example) can give 


rise to many complexities in relationship, not only passion. 


Real purity is not mere celibacy. It has nothing fundamentally to do with celibacy. A 
pure heart holds no grudges, a pure mind is free of harmful thoughts. At best, it is that state 
free from all egotistical tendencies. This is a state of true humility that approaches that of God 


who does everything without an iota of ego. 


so Mfaua AH: 


om Sucikaraya namah 


99. Purifying (Shuchikara). 


What purifies more than fire ruled by Mars? The fire of consciousness burns up all sins 
and past impressions as described in the Bhagavad Gita (4.19). 


30 ITT AA: 


om siraya namah 


100. Heroic (Shura). 


This name, coming ina series related to purity, shows that the greatest hero is one who 
purifies him or herself and then assists others to become pure through good guidance. Purity 
is not about maintaining any particular rule. The sign of purity is when one feels completely at 
peace in one’s heart. If we do not, we should not feel disheartened. The path starts wherever 
we are. Through patience, kindness, service to those in need, prayer and meditation, we can 


reach that state. 


So Baas AH: 


om Sucivasyaya namah 


101. Dutiful (Vashya) to the pure (Shuchi). 


If we want the blessing of a Yogi, it helps to clean our slate as best we can first. 
Determination to go further under his or her guidance is another key. Then the blessing is au- 


tomatic. The Yogi will be unable to resist giving us part of his or herself. 


so WNTASTA AM: 


om subhavahaya namah 


102. Causing auspiciousness. 


Shubha is auspicious, agreeable, capable, brilliant, beautiful, fortunate, prosperous, 
charming, happy and so forth. It can indicate one who is eminent and learned. Avaha causes 
or produces. This name promises all good through the benevolence of an unafflicted Mars. 
If we suspect our Mars is afflicted, then reading through these mantras is one of the useful 


remedies. 


0 AVS UMMT AA: 


om mesavrscikarasisaya namah 


103. Lord (Isha) of Aries, Mesha, and Scorpio, Vrishchika. 


Aries is associated with the head, the top of the spine, and Vrishchika, the area at the 
base. Together they show the path of the Kundalini energy. The awakening takes place in 
Scorpio and rises to Aries. Then it recirculates down. In everyone, the life follows the same 
course. Scorpio holds all the secrets. Some we seek and some we may prefer not to remem- 
ber. It often makes us take to a spiritual path so the wind of realization can blow through us 


without any disturbance to the mind and soul. 


Mars is exalted at 28 degrees of Capricorn. It is debilitated at the opposite position 
of 28 degrees of Cancer. Exaltation is different than own sign. In it, the Graha is shining at 
its brightest, metaphorically, rather like a king in his throne room. The own signs, Aries and 
Scorpio are where Mars is in his office or at home. These are much lower pressure locations 
so they are more stable. In the debilitation place, the Graha can indicate a struggle to be all 
you want to be. A specific peak degree is only applicable to exaltation and debilitation. The 


peak exaltation occurs in a specific Nakshatra. 


Mars is exalted in Dhanishtha. This Nakshatra is said to be where Lord Shiva plays his 
Damaru drum and produces the sounds of our alphabet. From thence, all the wisdom and 
learning of mankind comes. Therefore, this Nakshatra is said to be excellent for learning. Its 
ruler, the eight Vasus, are the gods of the earthly plane. Perhaps this is connected to Mars’ 
rulership over land and property. 


Mars is debilitated in Ashlesa. This Nakshatra has the energy of the celestial serpents. 
This can give very elevated experiences or it can be associated with lower snake energy. 
Mars dislikes the snake energy and also Ashlesa’s Graha ruler Mercury. It is an uncomfortable 
place. Ashlesa is a place where knowledge comes from inner insight. Mars prefers logic and 
reason. Rahu and Ketu have snake energy so Mars’ association with them can be difficult. On 
the other hand, they can instigate Mars energy to flow through the subtle channels. This as- 


sociation can mean the experiences of rising Kundalini arise at some stage in our life. 


30 Hemtad AG: 


om medhavine namah 


104. Highly learned and intelligent. 


He can learn perfectly, just by listening to the teacher. Medhavin can indicate a state of 
intoxication with the bliss of pure knowledge. As someone progresses in Yoga, there comes 


a stage where they are inebriated with bliss. 


xo TRAMTAUNY AH: 
om mitabhasanaya namah 
105. Having measured (Mita) speech (Bhasana). Not speaking much. 


It also means that when he achieves his goal, he says little, there is no boasting. That is 


why it is said that ‘one who knows does not say and one who says does not know’ (Lao Tzu). 


Xo TaN AH: 
om sukhapradaya namah 
106. Giving (Prada) happiness (Sukha). 


That state of awakening gives happiness and one in that state sheds happiness all 


around. 


Xo GRUET AH: 
om surupaksaya namah 
107. Beautiful (Surtipa) eyed (Aksa). 


The true beauty is seen in the eyes. You can see into someone’s soul by looking into 


his or her eyes. 


xo GaN HAWATT AA: 
om sarvabhistaphalapradaya namah 
108. Giving (Prada) the fruit (Phala) of all (Sarva) we desire (Abhista). 


In his overflowing abundance of joy, he grants all the wishes of his devotees just as 


great kings and rulers satisfy the desires of their people. 


Om tat sat 


OO nN DHF WD =| 


OwWwwwWwwon YO MYND DY MY NN NY NY | S| | | SF SF Ss Ss om a 
HO fF WNHD SH OO WAN DA KF WNHD HSH DO DAN DOA FWNY - O 


THe Mantras oF MANGALA IN TRANSLITERATION 


. om mahisutaya namah 

. om mahabhagaya namah 

.om mangalaya namah 

. om mangalapradaya namah 

.om mahaviraya namah 

. om mahasuiraya namah 

. om mahabalaparakramaya namah 

. om maharaudraya namah 

. om mahabhadraya namah 

.om mananiyaya namah 

. om dayakaraya namah 

. om manadaya namah 

. om aparvanaya namah 

.om kraraya namah 

. om tapatrayavivarjitaya namah 

. om supratipaya namah 

.om sutamraksaya namah 

. om subrahmanyaya namah 

. om sukhapradaya namah 

. om vakrastambhadigamanaya namah 
. om varenyaya namah 

. om varadaya namah 

.om sukhine namah 

.om virabhadraya namah 

.om virupaksaya namah 

. om vidurasthaya namah 

.om vibhavasave namah 

. om naksatracakrasamcarine namah 
.om ksatrapaya namah 

. om ksatravarjitaya namah 

. om ksayavrddhivinirmuktaya namah 
. om ksamayuktaya namah 

.om vicaksanaya namah 

. om aksinaphaladaya namah 

. om caturvargaphalapradaya namah 


36. 
37. 
38. 
39. 
40. 
41. 
42. 
43. 
44, 
45. 
46. 
47. 
48. 


49 


om vitaragaya namah 

om vitabhayaya namah 

om vijvaraya namah 

om visvakaranaya namah 

om naksatrarasisamcaraya namah 
om nanabhayanikrntanaya namah 
om vandarujanabandhavaya namah 
om vakrakufhcitamurdhajaya namah 
om kamantyaya namah 

om dayasaraya namah 

om kanatkanakabhisanaya namah 
om bhayaghnaya namah 

om bhavyaphaladaya namah 


. om bhaktabhayavarapradaya namah 
50. 
51. 
52. 
53. 
54. 
55. 
56. 
St: 
58. 
59. 
60. 
61. 
62. 
63. 
64. 
65. 
66. 
67. 
68. 
69. 
70. 
71. 
72. 
73. 


om Satruhantre namah 

om samopetaya namah 

om Saranagataposanaya namah 
om sahasine namah 

om sadgunadhyaksaya namah 
om sadhave namah 

om samaradurjayaya namah 

om dustadiraya namah 

om Sistapijyaya namah 

om sarvakastanivarakaya namah 
om duscestavarakaya namah 

om duhkhabhafijanaya namah 

om durdharaya namah 

om haraye namah 

om duhsvapnahantre namah 

om durdharsaya namah 

om dustagarvavimocanaya namah 
om bharadvajakulodbhitaya namah 
om bhusutaya namah 

om bhavyabhisanaya namah 

om raktambaraya namah 

om raktavapuse namah 

om bhaktapalanatatparaya namah 
om caturbhujaya namah 


74. om gadadharine namah 
75. om mesavahaya namah 
76. om mitasanaya namah 
77. om SaktiStladharaya namah 
78. om Saktaya namah 
79. om Sastravidyavisaradaya namah 
80. om tarkikaya namah 
81. om tamasadharaya namah 
82. om tapasvine namah 
83. om tamralocanaya namah 
84. om taptakaficanasamkasaya namah 
85. om raktakifjilkasannibhaya namah 
86. om gotra'dhidevaya namah 
87. om gomadhyacaraya namah 
88. om gunavibhisanaya namah 
89. om asrje namah 
90. om angarakaya namah 
91. om avantidesadhisaya namah 
92. om janardanaya namah 
93. om siryayamyapradesasthaya namah 
94. om yune namah 
95. om yamyaharinmukhaya namah 
96. om trikonamandalagataya namah 
97. om tridasadhipasannutaya namah 
98. om Sucaye namah 
99. om Sucikaraya namah 
100. om siraya namah 
101. om Sucivasyaya namah 
102. om Subhavahaya namah 
103. om mesavrscikarasisaya namah 
104. om medhavine namah 
105. om mitabhasanaya namah 
106. om sukhapradaya namah 
107. om surupaksaya namah 
108. om sarvabhistaphalapradaya namah 


SOURCES AND ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS 


While these lists are well Known to traditional astrologers in India, | only found two 
places where they had been printed. | am thus indebted to Dr Mrs Saraswathy and Prof. B. A. 
Eeswaran for publishing a Sanskrit text of the names of the Grahas in their book 
NavaGrahas, albeit without translation and source, and Prof. S.K. Ramachandra Rao for his 
outstanding compendium The NavaGraha Kosha, which includes another set. Prof. Rao 
informed me that his work was based on a medieval text. Regretfully Prof. Rao has passed 
away. These two sources have some differences. Where | felt that both versions of a name 
had merit, | included both under the same number. 


| am most grateful to Pandit UmaShankar Jois, priest of the Mukambika temple, Kollur, 
Karnataka, India, for his help in the early stages of this work. Regretfully, he has now passed 
away. Many other pundits gave me their learned opinion on particular names and | thank them 
all. My Jyotish Guru, Pandit Sanjay Rath, has been a great inspiration. 


Two great artists have kindly allowed me to showcase their beautiful work. Pieter 
Weltevrede, acclaimed Dutch master painter, did all the colour work. The drawings were 
done by the highly talented Jane Adams. Find out more about them in the Section ‘The 
Artists’. 


Many people helped me with editing and proofreading and | thank them all. Especially, 
| want to thank my wife Susie for her considerable assistance and all my family for their love 
and support. 


ABOUT THE AUTHOR 


Andrew Foss has a PhD in Computing Science from the University of Alberta and is 
also an Oxford University Physics graduate with publications in Nature and other leading sci- 
entific journals. He is the author of the book High-Dimensional Data Mining. He enjoys a deep 
love of music, art and poetry and has more than 30 years experience studying and teaching 
the Vedic wisdom around the world. He is the Founding President of the British Association of 
Vedic Astrology, Editor of the BAVA Journal Gochara and is a Certified Jaimini Scholar and 
Jyotish Pandit, the highest professional certifications in Vedic Astrology involving nine years 
of continuous study. He has developed the unique, easy and powerful software Shri Jyoti 
Star that has become the first choice amongst the leading Vedic Astrologers around the 
world. Andrew is married and lives with his family in Virginia, USA. 


SECRETS OF VIMSHOTTARI DASHA 


As a bonus | have decided to publish some unique secrets about Vedic Astrology in 
the printed version of this book, which will also have the mantras of all nine planets. Please 
visit YogaOfThePlanets.com for more information. 


For 33 years, |, like everyone else who studies Jyotisha, wondered about the origin of 
the lengths of the Vimshottari Dashas. | could never find a way into this mystery. Nowhere in 
the literature, ancient or modern, can even a satisfactory hint be found. Then, on July 7, 2015, 
| saw on the web at least a partial derivation of the sequence of lords. It relied on knowing the 
Dasha cycle lengths. At the end, the author appealed for someone to find a solution to the 
problem of deriving the length of the cycles. The thought came, ‘let’s give it a shot’. 


| pulled out a fresh sheet of paper and started writing down equations that might help. 
Bit by bit the key principles unfolded themselves. It did not take long to realize that | had an 
answer and it just required some polishing. In the process, some wonderful insights 
appeared as well as a profound advance in the understanding of the Tara Bala, which is most 
important for interpreting the Dasha. | have not found this written anywhere. Therefore, both 
these re-markable and interesting secrets were given to me and | am sharing them with you. 


Notes 


The Atmakaraka is the soul planet. It is the Graha that has advanced furthest in its zodiacal sign. Rahu is 
naturally retrograde, so it is an exception being measured from the end of the sign. Ketu is not considered as it 
represents the freedom of the soul, not its embodiment. 


Mahabharata, Drona Parva, 191v56. 


Mahabharata, Sabha Parva, Chapter 31. 


