THE YOGA OF THE PLANETS 


CHANDRA, THE MOON 


Awnorew F: OSS, P uD 


AEX ( ce ° -—~\ 
NAC A AS <eisan 
a SSeS 


C (i$ 


“ 


’ 
. 


TaBLe OF Contents 


Dedication 

How this Book will Help You 
Find your Personal Mantras 
The Journey 


Notes on Pronounciation from the Transliteration 


Hymn in Honour of the Planets 
Chandra, The Moon 


The Mantras of Chandra in Transliteration 
Secrets of Vimshottari Dasha 

Sources and Acknowledgements 

The Artists 


About the Author 


HOW THIS BOOK WILL HELP YOU 


This book has many uses. In itself, it is a meditation. There is no need to know 
anything about Vedic Astrology to enjoy and benefit. There are insights into astrology but the 
main focus is enlightening the consciousness and providing a rebalancing of the energies 
represented by the planets. This will happen automatically as one reads the mantras and their 


commentaries. 


There are 108 mantras for each planet used in Vedic Astrology. Each mantra is a 
descriptive name converted to a salutation and used for meditation or chanting. For example 
‘om Santaya namah’ means ‘salutations to the peaceful one’ and is based on the name santa 
(shaanta) which means peaceful. Reciting the mantra develops understanding for the quality 
embodied in the name and can help mental clarity and spiritual development. In the transla- 
tion, the first mantra of each planet is fully translated. After that, just the names are translated 


leaving ‘Salutations to’ understood. 


The Vedic planets are normally listed in the order of the days of the week. They are 
the Sun, the Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus and Saturn plus the two eclipse points. 
These are the Lunar nodes called Rahu (the North node) and Ketu (the South node). The Vedic 
‘planets’ are often referred to as ‘Grahas’, the Sanskrit word which means ‘graspers’, as they 
appear to guide and control our experiences. 


For the first time, these mantras are listed with translation and commentary. Even if you 
only read the commentaries, you will get some of the benefit. If the planet is weak or afflicted 


in your life, then this acts as a remedy. If it is already strong, this helps to enliven its full value. 


A common way of using these mantras is to recite the set of 108 for the planet one 
chooses’. For example, one could recite the mantras of the Sun on Sunday mornings. The 
next chapter, Find your Personal Mantras, will explain how to go beyond this and find out 


which of the mantras will especially enliven your personal chart. 


The mantras of the more malefic planets, such as Mars, Saturn, Rahu and Ketu, natu- 
rally contain some names, which describe the more challenging side of the Graha. These help 
us to understand certain behaviours and this can be remedial. For these names, it may be 
better to contemplate the deeper meanings rather than simply repeating them. For example, 
Rahu is said to be cruel. This association with cruelty arises out of fear. Fear is deeply seated 


in survival issues. 


Contemplating the mantra may help one get in touch with the source of the problem, 
so it can be alleviated. Loving an injured heart can be the basis of real change. This applies to 


our self or another. | do not recommend using the more challenging names as regular practice 


mantras and | certainly do not recommend you ask another person to do them even if they 
come up when you do the calculations described in the next chapter. On the other hand, | 
have found listening to the sets of 108 names has been beneficial for my clients. 


If chanting one or a set of mantras, | suggest you start with 
om gam ganapataye namah 
to invoke the pure state of mind and end with 
om Santih Santin Santih 
meaning ‘Om peace, peace, peace’. 


For convenience, | am publishing the mantras of the nine planets of Vedic Astrology in 
nine separate eBooks. Put together, the length was too great but | am combining them all in 
the printed version. To find the eBook for another planet, visit YogaOfThePlanets.com. There 
you can also find information on the audio of the recitation of the mantras. | have on occasion 
given these to clients to listen to when that planet was afflicted in their chart with very posi- 
tive results. 


FIND YOUR PERSONAL MANTRAS 


A great secret being released with this book is how to find the best mantras for you 
from the list of 108. This secret has been closely kept by a few Indian Astrologers and | am in- 
debted to my teacher, Pandit Sanjay Rath, for enlightening me about this. 


It is very simple. The reason why there are 108 mantras for the planets as well as such 
lists for the deities is because the zodiac is naturally divided into 108 segments. 108 is said 
to be the number of Shree, the Goddess of prosperity. Astrologically, it is our whole world. 
For example, the name of a new born child is often given based on the Moon’s place in these 
divisions. 


It is not only the Moon that is important. The Sun is very important and all the other 
planets of Vedic Astrology can be key. It all depends on our chart. Whatever the chart, doing 
the mantra for the position of a planet can be very beneficial. It will resonate with us and thus 
has extra energy. 


There are a number of approaches for finding a powerful mantra for you or for a client, 
student or friend. The first | describe requires no astrology and the others are connected to 
the actual positions of the planets. For those with an interest in Vedic Astrology, this can be- 
come quite detailed as we drill down on the relationship between different planets. Therefore, 
a chapter on advanced applications is to be found in the printed version of the book. Here we 
give the easy astrological applications. 


However you arrive at a mantra, please pay attention to the caveat mentioned in the 
previous section. 


Method One, the Random Number 


Picking a random number may sound an unlikely idea but it is something that many 
prognostic systems employ, including the Vedic Astrology method of answering questions. 
This technique often gives clear insights. If you are calm and quietly focused, then nature 
talks to you and one way of facilitating this is picking a number. There are really two situations, 
finding a number for oneself and finding one for another. For example, if you are a Yoga 
teacher whose student wants a mantra or someone sharing with a friend. 


Suppose you want a random number for yourself and do not want to imagine a number 
out of 108. You can get three single digit numbers by picking numbers you see. One way is to 
open a book and take the final digit of the page number and do this three times. For example, 
suppose you open a book at random three times and get pages 21, 143 and 79. Pick the final 
digits which would be 1, 3 and 9. Write down these digits to form a number 139 and adjust 


to the desired range by subtracting 108. In this example, 139 — 108 = 31. Of course, you can 
come up with many alternate ways of getting a number. 


My astrological software Shri Jyoti Stare gives a random number. In the Data Entry 
screen, click ‘Enter Number’. If you are asked about ‘Replacing the current chart...’ click Yes 
or No. In the next screen, make sure the Range is set to 108 and you will see a random num- 
ber is given to you. 


If there is another person involved, one can ask them for a number. This often works. 
What we want is a number between 1 and 108. If the person gives us a number larger than 
108, we can keep subtracting 108 until we get a number in the desired range. For example, if 
they say 250, then subtracting 108 twice (216) gives 34. However, we may feel that the person 
is interpreting our answer to mean a single digit number only or perhaps knows the system 
we are using too well and may be biased towards certain numbers. Then we can ask for three 
single digit numbers as in the method described just above but we can write them down in re- 
verse order. This is just a suggestion, in reality we can use any scheme that we like. 


A separate app for this book is planned, which will do both random number and astro- 
logical calculations (information will be posted on YogaOfThePlanets.com). 


Method Two, Using the Astrological Chart 


The following is how to find the number for your natal Moon (or any planet). First, find 
out the sidereal position from any software, for example Shri Jyoti Star. In the current version 
7, it will also give you the mantra number next to the planet glyphs in charts. The planned app 
for this book will also give the number (see YogaOfThePlanets.com) but it is easy to do it by 
hand if one has the planet position. Examples are given below. 


In the table following, look up the planet position and find the number. Note, the table 
is at the end of this section and it is quite narrow to facilitate reading on narrow screens. If you 
still cannot see the whole width of the table, rotate your device to Landscape or pinch in until 
you can see the whole table. 


For example, suppose the planet is at Virgo 5 degrees. 5° is between 3°20’ and 6°40' 
so look in the second column of numbers under 6°40’ in the row for Virgo. You will find the 
number 47. Then look in the book for the mantra numbered 47. In the main text, the number 
is given at the start of the commentary, after the mantra. In the lists at the end, the mantra fol- 
lows the number. For the Moon, the mantra for 47 is ‘om muktidaya namah’. 


This is the simplest application of the rule where the number is counted from the start 
of the zodiac. This can be called ‘God’s view’ as the beginning of the zodiac is the beginning 
of the chart from the point of view of the Creator. Thus, it is very powerful. However, there 
are other views. There is the count from the Moon, which gives the social or personal view. 


There is the count from the Sun, which is like the view from our soul. Another important 
count is from the Ascendant, which relates to the body and health. Reciting the mantra we 
get from this count may help our health but if we feel sick we should always consult a medi- 
cal professional. 


We can make a count from any of the planets as the starting point. In Jyotisna (Vedic 
Astrology) there are systems of planetary cycles (periods), especially the famous Vimshottari 
Dasha system. All Vedic Astrology software like Shri Jyoti Star give these cycles too. Even 
some Western Astrology software or online software give them. For example, you might be 
running a Venus Moon cycle and subcycle. That means you are in the major cycle of Venus 
and the minor cycle of the Moon (called a Bhukti). In this example, one can count from Venus 
to the Moon and use the mantra from the Moon list. 


For example, let us find the mantra for the Moon from the perspective of the Sun. Let 
us suppose the Sun is at 8°10’ Leo and the Moon is at 4°30’ Sagittarius. First find the number 
for the Sun from the table as we did above, which is 39, and then the number for the Moon 
from the table which is 74, as 4°30’ is greater than 3°20’ and less than 6°40’. Now subtract 39 
from 74 and add 1, which gives you 36. Then find mantra 36 in the mantra list for the Moon. 
We add 1 because if both planets have the same number, the answer has to be 1, there is no 
mantra for zero. If the subtraction gives a negative value, just add 108 to the result. 


Now you know how to find key mantras for your chart in general and for your Dasha cy- 
cles. | recommend you start with ‘God’s view’ as this can be considered the most important. 


(The table is on the next page) 


Degrees up to 


Sign 3° 6° 40% “1380 “46? <20% 93% BE --30° 
20’ 40’ 20’ = 40’ 20’ = 40’ 

Aries 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 

Taurus 10. ~=«11 12 13 14 15 16 #17 ~ 18 

Gemini 19 20 21 22 23 24 2 26 27 


Cancer 28 29 30 ~~ 31 32 33 34 35 36 


Leo 37 38 39 40 = 41 42 43 44 45 
Virgo 46 47 48 49 50 51 52 5354 
Libra 55 56 «57 58 59 #60 61 62 63 


Scorpio 64 65 66 67 68 69 70 71 72 
Sagittarius 73 74 15 7 77 78 79 ~=©680-~—St—s«éO83211 
Capricorn 82 83 84 85 86 87 88 89 90 
Aquarius 91 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 
Pisces 100 101 102 103 104 105 106 107 108 


THe AsTROLOGICAL Houses 


In various places in this book you will find reference to houses or places from some 
important personal marker such as the Ascendant or the Moon. The simplest and traditional 
way of understanding this is in terms of the 12 signs of the zodiac, Aries, Taurus, etc. If 
the Moon is in Taurus, then Taurus is the first house or place from the Moon. Gemini is the 
second. Aries is the twelfth, etc. One only has to count round by signs. The Ascendant is in 


the sign rising on the Eastern horizon at the time of birth. 


THE JOURNEY 


On March 3rd 1995, | entered the sacred and tranquil valley surrounding the small 
village of Kollur. | had fostered a desire to visit here for eight years since a friend told me about 
it. | did not know why | felt this connection but when | was finally able to travel to India | set 
my heart on reaching that place. It seemed very special and | must have feared going straight 
there in case my energy was unprepared. | chose to go first to Tamil Nadu on the opposite 


coast and to the great temple of Rameshvaram. 


Rameshvaram is on the spit of land opposite Sri Lanka. This is the place Shri Rama 
worshipped Lord Shiva before launching his campaign to recover his wife Sita from the 
demon king. To cross the ocean, his army of monkeys and bears built a bridge or causeway 
across the ocean. This was many thousands of years ago but, amazingly, the remains of a 
causeway to Sri Lanka are still visible in satellite photos. According to temple records, Shit 
Rama’s bridge was passable being completely above the sea until destroyed by a cyclone in 
1480 AD. 


From Rameshvaram, | visited the great temple of Minakshi and thence to the very tip of 
India, Kanyakumari. This place has remarkable temples especially that of the Virgin Goddess. 
| rose and went at 3:30 am and was almost alone in witnessing the bathing of the Goddess in 
milk. It was the Full Moon day. A little later | did homage to the shrine for the Navagraha and 
received a distinct blessing. Prior to that | had done some study of Jyotisha but had received 
no authority from any Guru or other source to study and practice. This was a most unex- 


pected Grace. 


From Kanyakumari, | travelled up the Kerala coast visiting Ashrams and temples until 
| came to Kollur. It was a great moment, though for no obvious reason at all. Kollur is home 
to the famous temple of Devi Mookambika, the Goddess of the mouth. It is said she grants 
blessings related to the voice and the arts. Most evenings, artists from all over India come to 


perform before her. They sing, dance and play instruments. 


At the time | knew nothing about this temple. | did not know that astrologers from all 
over South India come here to pray and do penance for Vak Siddhi, the power that whatever 
one says proves true. After all, people expect an astrologer to have this power. While, in rare 
cases, it is possible that a person is born with this, generally it only arises after long and sin- 
cere spiritual practice. This is why Vedic Astrology, Jyotisha, is primarily a spiritual discipline 


and one should seek a guru or gurus to guide one’s spiritual and intellectual development. 


The essence of success in an earthly endeavour is the Grace of the Goddess and for 


each aspirant there is some form that appeals to him or her and which can grant success. 


There are rules for finding this form but ultimately it is very personal. | should make it clear that 
talk of gods and goddesses does not conflict with the monotheistic view because the Vedic 
view is that the One takes whatever form we desire or can be approached as purely formless 
if that is our path. 


The worship of the Goddess in India is, at its peak, related to the Shri Vidya and the 
Shri Chakra. The great sage and teacher Adi Shankaracharya installed a Shri Chakra under 
the deity in the Mookambika temple. After some time in Kollur, | came to know that he also 
installed a Shri Chakra at the top of the highest mountain nearby where the root shrine of 
the Goddess is to be found. Part of the pilgrimage is to walk to the top of this mountain. It 
is about 12 miles or one can take the bus part of the way and walk the last 3-4 hours. | had 
many extraordinary experiences on this mountain as well as in the temple, which | will write 
about elsewhere. 


While | was staying at the temple, somehow | conceived of this book. It seemed to me 
that the sets of 108 names of the Grahas (planets) were important and used by astrologers 
but | could find no trace of a translation or commentary. So | started making notes. When | 
could not understand a word, | discussed it with my friend UmaShankar Jois who is one of the 
distinguished priests at the temple. He studied Jyotisha with a great Guru though he passed 
away before my friend’s studies were complete. UmaShankar is a great expert in the remedial 
measures and he felt | had some knowledge on the analysis of charts so we spent a lot of time 
discussing Jyotisha together. 


I stayed at Kollur for more than 40 days, as is the custom, and then went for Shivaratri 
in Varanasi. This is the greatest festival for Lord Shiva and Varanasi is considered the city of 
Shiva, and is one of the most profound places to celebrate it. As | was about to leave Kollur, 
| went to the temple to take Her leave to go. The priests put me at the front during the Arti 
(ritual waving of lights before the shrine), which is the peak of the evening worship. Then | got 
on the bus to go to Bangalore where | could catch a train for the North. 


As it happened, the conductor of this bus was part of a ring of thieves who stole the 
luggage of innocents like me. | arrived in Bangalore without anything, all my notes were gone. 
Still | managed to continue my journey and reached Varanasi, the great city of Shiva, at 4 am 
on Shivaratri. | washed and went straight to the temple having no luggage to concern me. 
Standing in the queue | noticed that | was the only male wearing traditional clothing. There 
was a guard on the door and they often turn ‘tourists’ away. He looked me over for a while 
and then enthusiastically said ‘om namah Ssivaya’ and waived me in. 


The next year, | returned to Kollur with another notebook. | started by writing down all 
that | remembered and naturally found that my understanding had improved over the year and 
quickly was ahead of my previous work. When | left Kollur after another 40+ days | had just 


a few names which | could not decipher. | visited Prof. Ramachandra Rao in Bangalore who 
was one of the two people that | found who had published the lists of the names. We had an 
interesting discussion. He was a very great scholar. Unfortunately, he has now passed away. 
Travelling through India | met many good scholars who kindly gave me their opinions so the 
meanings became clear. Since then, from time to time | wrote my small commentary. It re- 


flects many stages in my own spiritual life. | hope you enjoy it. 


In 2007, | visited a small house a few miles north of the great Konark temple. This 
temple, though now partially ruined, was perhaps India’s greatest temple to the Sun god. It 
is built like a giant chariot. Some of the carvings are now in the British Museum including 
the large carvings of the nine Grahas (planets). The Konark temple stands near the beach in 
the North Eastern part of India’s V shape so is one of the first places to see the rays of the 
rising Sun. Konark is some 20 miles north of Puri where the great Jagannatha temple of Lord 
Krishna is to be found administered by the Shankaracharya of the East. He is charged with 


maintaining the Rig Veda, accepted as humanity’s oldest recorded wisdom text. 


About 500 years ago, the great spiritual teacher Chaitanya Mahaprabhu resided here 
and the lineages derived from him are still very widespread today, such as ISKCON. He had 
five ‘sakhas’ or friends, as they were called, one of which was Swami Achyutananda. The 
Swami was initiated by the great teacher at an early age and went on to become the King’s 
astrologer, a noted author of over 200 books and an enlightened sage. He also founded 13 
schools in the region. These taught various sciences and several were dedicated to Jyotisha. 
When he was leaving his body, he promised to remain in a ‘shunya’ form. Shunya means the 
void and it is a term he explained in great depth in one of his books. It does not refer to mere 


nothingness but to a profound state of Being. 


He kept his promise and even today you can go and consult him. That is where | was 
going. There is a small shrine and next to it are the quarters of a pandit who keeps and 
interprets a set of copper plates (tamra poti). These plates only contain some drawings like 
the shape of a lotus, but when you enter there with a question in your mind, the answer 
appears written in ancient Odia (the local language 500 years ago) and the pandit reads them 
for you. If you look, you can actually see the writing appear. | went there with several friends, 
all of whom were students of Pandit Sanjay Rath who is the last remaining person carrying 
the knowledge of the Jyotisha schools founded by the Swami. In effect, we had joined his 
lineage. The answers we got were remarkably pertinent and insightful. We were all given 
mantras. | later talked to a colleague who has taken over 40 people there and he said no one 


had ever been given a mantra. 


The Swami told me to finish my book. | noticed that when | did the mantra, | would 


work more on this text. | hope he forgives me for the long time spent in fulfilling his instruction 


but perhaps | or the time was not ripe before now. This year (2015) marks the 20th year since 
| started and only this year did | make the important discovery about the Vimshottari Dasha 
which is published in this book. In the derivation of the Vimshottari Dasha cycles or periods, 


the great significance of 20 years is revealed. 


The name of the Sun temple is from Kona + Arka. Arka is a name of the Sun and 
Kona means trine. In Jyotisha, this indicates the Dharma Trikona, the sustainer of life, which | 
have written about in many places in this book and is so important in the interpretation of the 


Vimshottari Dasha. 


NOTES ON PRONOUNCIATION FROM THE TRANSLITERATION 


In the transliteration, there are marks called diacriticals that aid correct pronunciation. 


In Sanskrit there are long and short syllables. The long ones are to be sounded for 
twice as long as the short ones, even longer is OK. Vowels with a line over them like ‘a’ and 
double vowels like ‘ai’ are all long. ‘h’ (h with a dot under it) is pronounced like ‘ah’, that is 
with aspiration. It is often pronounced as ‘ahah’ but this is not recommended for mantras as 
it effectively adds another syllable and the syllable count of a mantra is important. ‘s’ with an 


acute accent is like ‘sh’. For example, ‘Sukrah’ is pronounced ‘shukrah’. 


Consonants or sibilants with a dot under them like t or s are retroflex. For example, t is 
pronounced as the ‘t’ in Tom. You curl your tongue back and strike your palate. ‘t’ on the other 
hand is a dental sound. ‘th’ is ‘t’ with some aspiration as are all the other syllables that have 


an ‘h’ like ‘bh’, ‘dh’ and ‘gh’. You just blow a little when saying the consonant. 


The ‘r’ such as in ‘brhat’ is a vowel in Sanskrit pronounced like the ‘ry’ in jewelry. ‘c’ is 
pronounced as ‘ch’, as in ‘change’. In the commentary, | usually use ‘ch’. If ‘ch’ appears in the 
transliteration, then it is like ‘chh’, which is ‘ch’ with some extra aspiration. 


Please visit a Sanskrit learning web site or teacher for more detailed advice. One good 
site is learnsanskrit.org. 


The Devanagari (Sanskrit) support on a PC is excellent but may not be so perfect on 
mobile devices. Older Kindle devices and other eReaders may not show it at all. One can al- 


ways check against the transliteration, which should be correct. 


Please note that the first time part of a mantra is mentioned in the following text, it is 
italicized. Sanskrit terms in the commentaries are often transliterated but not always accord- 
ing to the more rigorous scheme. Sometimes the more usual form is followed using the stan- 
dard English alphabet. 


HYMN IN HONOUR OF THE PLANETS 


so Th TUNA Aa: 


om gar ganapataye namah 


Sa HURRAH AM: IM YTHE Sera 
TEM Yr: Walghda: Fs Wer: WA HU Fadil 


brahma muraristripurantakarl bhanuh Sast 
bhiUmisuto budhasca | 
gurusca Sukrah Sanirahuketavah sarve grahah 


Santi kara bhavantu || 


Brahma (the Creator), Murari (Vishnu, the Sustainer), Tripurantakarin (Siva, the slayer of the 
demon Tripurasura), Bhanu (the Sun), Shashin (the Moon), Bhimisuta (Mars, the son of the 
Earth), Budha (Mercury), Guru (Jupiter), Shukra (Venus), Shani (Saturn), Rahu and Ketu, may 


all these Grahas be peaceful. 


CHANDRA, THE MOON 


xo Aq AH: 


om srimate namah 


1. Salutations to the one possessed of all auspiciousness. 


The Vedic Astrological chart shows one’s level of Shr or fortune. The chart is created 
by the movement of the Moon and its interplay with the Sun. In India, interpretation of the 
chart starts with the position of the Moon rather than the Sun for issues of personal experi- 
ence and fortune. The Sun is like the soul because it moves steadily on in its course without 
variation. The Moon is like the mind as it rises and falls with its reflection of the sunlight. 


Among the main significations of the Moon are the mind and the mother. 


In India, mothers and married women are addressed as Shrimati. This is the feminine 
form of this name. The male form is Shriman. The meaning is the same: one who is possessed 
of Shri (pronounced Shree). Shri indicates all kinds of auspiciousness. It is aname of Lakshmi, 
the Goddess of wealth, victory and beauty and it also stands for the number 108. In Vedic 
Astrology, the zodiac is divided into 108 Padas or quarters. There are four for each Nakshatra 
or lunar mansion (4 x 27 = 108), and nine for each Rashi or sign (9 x 12 = 108). This is the key 
division of the zodiac and is especially related to the movement of the Moon, which defines 
the Nakshatras. 


The day is naturally divided into four parts. These are separated by sunrise, midday, 
sunset and midnight. The Moon moves through one Nakshatra each day (approximately), so 
we can say that the division of the Nakshatra into four parts or Padas follows naturally from 
the four-fold division of the day. As each sign contains nine Padas, this is the natural division 
of each zodiacal sign. The fact that there are 12 signs follows from the approximate rate of 12 
full moons that occur in the course of a year. As the Moon is connected to the Nakshatras, 
the mother is seen from the fourth house. As the Sun is connected to the Rashis, the father 
is seen from the ninth. In this way, the perfect synchrony of the Nakshatras and Rashis gives 


rise to the core concepts of Jyotisha. 


The Moon’s cycle controls the growth of plants and human fertility. Research shows 
that people often relate human beauty to fertility. The Vedic texts connect beauty to auspi- 
ciousness. Of course, there is more to beauty and auspiciousness than physical characteris- 
tics or age-related fertility. The inner beauty that arises from a sweetness of consciousness is 


the deeper aspect of the meaning of this name. There is nothing more beautiful than a pure 


heart. Later, we see how the Moon is related to Soma, the nectar of divine consciousness, 


which is the cause of inner sweetness. 


Xo WNIT AA: 


om SaSadharaya namah 


2. The one carrying the hare (Shasha). 


This refers to the markings on the Moon that look like a hare, rabbit or deer. The 
Nakshatra called Mrigashira, or the head of a deer is ruled by Soma which is another name for 
the Moon. The connection with the deer or rabbit is not accidental. They are mild and timid 
animals that appear to be constantly searching. This is the nature of the mind, which is under- 


stood by studying the Moon in the Vedic astrological chart. 


An old story has it that the markings are due to an incident where the Moon saw Lord 
Ganesha riding on his mouse. The Moon laughed and Ganesha broke off one of his tusks 
and hurled it at the Moon creating the marks. Everything about Ganesha is highly symbolic. 
His whole form is said to be a personification of the Om syllable. The mouse as the vehicle 
for such a vast body indicates the relationship between the small Jiva or personality and 
the infinite vastness of absolute consciousness. It also indicates the Divine consciousness 
controlling the plundering nature of the mind. The single tusk of Ganesha suggests the one- 
pointed nature of that consciousness in its absolute crystal clarity, as the mind’s fluctuations 


no longer dominate experience. 
30 ACTA Aa: 
om candraya namah 


3. The luminous one. 


Chandra is the most common Sanskrit name for the Moon and luminosity is its most 


obvious feature. 
30 TMs AG: 
om taradhisaya namah 


4. The first lord of the stars. 


Tara means star and is also the name of the wife of Jupiter wno was stolen by the 
Moon. By Tara and the Moon, Mercury was born. Later, the Moon restored her to Jupiter after 


the intervention of the creator Brahma. 


This name also means the ruler of the best of the stars. Rohini has some claim to be 
the best Nakshatra. It is in the middle of Taurus and is fertile by nature. The Moon was given 


the 27 Nakshatras as wives but Rohini proved to be the principal or favoured wife (Moon 20). 


The question of gender arises when discussing the Moon. In the West, the Moon is 
referred to as ‘she’ and in Vedic Astrology, the Moon is ‘he’ but represents female things. The 
ancient Egyptians took the same view as the Vedic. | will use both genders out of respect for 
both traditions. In the Vedic view, every deity has a male and female component. The Sun 
may be considered male but he is always accompanied by his power or Shakti, his wife. The 
male is said to be incapable of accomplishing anything without the motivating force of the 


Shakti. Thus, they are always together. 


The ancient Manu Smriti, the oldest extant law book we have, gives some interesting 
rules or advice for husbands and wives. It says the husband should always look to the hap- 
piness of the wife. The wife is advised to obey the husband and not argue. If the husband 
suggests something that she does not like, it advises that rather than say something, she 
should express it on the face. Whatever our role in a relationship, it is always helpful to watch 
carefully the face of the other person and enjoy its light as we appreciate the Moon at night. 


The Moon, like the Sun, is a royal planet. Those people in whose Vedic chart these 
Grahas predominate need to be treated accordingly. Everyone deserves respect but the 
respect we pay to a preceptor (Jupiter person), a celebrity (Venus person), an intelligent or 


skilful person (Mercury), a warrior (Mars) or a good worker (Saturn) has its own energy. 


0 TASTHUa AG: 


om nisakaraya namah 


5. The maker of the night (Nisha). 


What is the night without the Moon? Just as the Sun is said to be Dinakara or the 
maker of the day, the Moon is the maker of the night. This name by its very sound conjures up 
the soothing moonbeams cooling the heated earth or the cool Moon hanging over fields and 
mountains covered in snow. It is so lovely that Nisha is popular as a girl’s name. Nisha also 


means a vision or a dream. They are the creations of the mind. 


xo Eases Ay: 


om sudhanidhaye namah 


6. The receptacle or abode (Nidhi) of nectar. 


Sudha means ease, comfort and the nectar of the gods, the Soma. The Moon is often 
associated with nectar and Soma is another of its names. After the heat of the day, its cooling 
beams have a nectar-like quality. The orb of the Moon is said to reside at the top of the spine 
and the Sun resides at the base. When the Kundalini energy rises up and reaches the place 
of the Moon, drops of nectar start falling down from the disc of the inner Moon and nourish 
the entire bodily system, subtle and gross. Unawakened, circling at the base, the life force 
gradually dries up through our willfulness. Through complete inner surrender, the life force 


arises and remains perpetually risen. 


Inner surrender cannot be described or converted into a formula. Egoistic tendencies 
have to be surrendered but that is not something one can simply choose to do. After all, who 
is choosing, who is doing? The simple truth is that one cannot transcend the mind by any 
effort of the mind. As Ramana Maharishi said, the thief (the mind) will not arrest itself. That is 
why people mediate and pray in whatever way they choose to wear away their coarseness. 
When one is ready, one may meet a self-realized soul and she or he will help much more 
than one could ever understand. A great soul will pray to God on our behalf and that is the 
key, for such a prayer is always heard. It is very important that one does not speak ill of such 
great souls and if one takes such a guide, one simply does what they ask. We can, of course, 
ask questions and raise doubts. Every mentor is a Guru on some level. For some people, the 


guide may be a person. For others, it may be nature itself or one may feel guided from within. 


There are no formulas here, everyone has to find their own way forward but it is helpful 
to understand the role of certain mental states. These are discussed here because the Moon 
represents the mind. The Moon is very sensitive and it is the influence of other planets on it 


that gives rise to these various states. 


A. Fear. Fear is there to stop us from advancing. Every gate we approach has a guard. The 
guard has only the weapon of fear. That stops almost everyone. A few ignore the fear they 
feel and pass through that gate. There is a true story about a sage from the South of India, 
Shri Shivabalayogi Maharaj, who passed in 1994 shortly before | started to write this book. 
In his youth, he was engaged in very serious practices that required following a strict time 
schedule. Once a day, he would go to the nearby river to bathe and then return to continue 


his practice in his little hut. He had to resume by a certain time. One day he reached his hut to 


find a very large cobra standing upright in the doorway blocking the path. He waited for it to 
move but it did not move away. When time was running out for him to resume his practice he 
stepped forward to enter the hut and the snake bit him. Inside the hut he collapsed and was 
unconscious for some time. He recovered and resumed his practice, which was to obtain the 
vision of Lord Shiva. After a short time, the vision came and around the Lord’s neck was the 


self-same king of the snakes smiling at him. 


Another great sage, who was an elder of and well-known to Shri Shivabalayogi, was 
Tapasvi Maharaj. He lived from the 1760s to the 1950s. He was a prince from Western India 
and at about the age of 60 he returned from combat to find his wife and son had died. Dis- 
gusted with fighting he rode to Delhi to request the Mughal Emperor to intervene to stop the 
fighting between the various small kingdoms. After some time, he obtained an audience. The 
Emperor was praying on his beads while the Prince talked. When he finished, the Emperor 
explained that his power was not sufficient to intervene but in any case he considered the life 


of a saint far superior to that of a king. 


The Prince rode out of Delhi and when he came to the junction where the road to 
Rishikesh began, he turned North towards the Ganges (Ganga). Since time immemorial, those 
wishing to pursue the spiritual path have gone to the Ganga especially where it enters the 
Himalayas and beyond. Rishikesh is that gateway town. As he approached the river, he found 
his way blocked by a large snake. He dismounted, drew his sword but was unable to strike 
the snake as it moved too fast. The snake disappeared and he resumed his journey. After a 
short distance, again the snake was blocking the way. Again he failed to strike it. At this point, 
he realized this was no ordinary occurrence. He put down his sword, took off his helmet and 
bowed down before the snake. It observed him and then quietly withdrew. Shortly after that 
he reached the Ganga. He wrapped all his gold and jewellery in a pouch, which he hung on 


the neck of his horse. Then he began his quest wearing only his loin-cloth. 


Such moments can happen to all seekers because the energy of awakening is snake- 
like and the final knot to be broken is guarded by the greatest fear, the fear of annihilation. The 
ego is facing its end and that is no small thing, or at least it appears so at the time. Afterwards, 
it is nothing, just like losing a mirage. The lunar nodes, Rahu and Ketu, are primarily con- 


nected to fear and awakening. 


B. Distractions. The path to God is also guarded by various pleasure fields. The closer one 
comes, the more temptations are presented. One can be offered more and more of what the 
world considers valuable such as wealth, sex and power and, eventually, even mystical at- 
tainments like levitation. In the Yoga Sutras (3.51), the great text of yoga, it warns the aspirant 
not to accept these offers, ‘therein lies danger’. Most certainly, progress will end and regress 


is likely. There is a price for everything. It is good to clearly know what one has to pay before 


taking anything from another. However, everyone has areas where it is hard to have crystal 
clarity. Rahu and Ketu, in particular, create a smoke or covering that prevents us from seeing 


clearly. 


It is wise to completely avoid black magic. There is a wonderful story of the great 
Tibetan master Milarepa. As a youth, some relatives cheated his family and took their land. 
He studied black magic and had his revenge by killing them all. Sickened by seeing what 
had happened, he approached a great master for spiritual initiation. The master ignored his 
request and just asked him to build him a house out of stone. Milarepa built the house and 
showed it to the master. He said that it was in the wrong place and asked Milarepa to move 


it slightly. This involved entire reconstruction. This was done, but again it was wrongly placed. 


After building the house several times the disciple lost heart. He approached the wife 
of the master who also felt that her husband was being unkind and she sent him for initiation 
to a student of the master in another valley. The mantra he gave had no effect so this senior 
student asked if Milarepa had been granted permission from the master to learn. Hearing the 
story, he sent him back to the Guru. The master explained that if he had rebuilt the house one 
more time, his sins would have been exhausted and he would have gained enlightenment. 
As he had failed, he would obtain realization through meditation but it would take another 30 
years. There are variations on this story but the idea is the same. For example, people with 
Ketu in the second house, owe a debt to the Gurus. They may well be sent on many fruitless 
errands. The master sees all the karma of the student. The student knows very little, usually 
nothing. 


C. Confusion. At an early stage in the spiritual path one will have to face confusion. It is 
said that there is no greater obstacle than doubt. This is where faith in one’s guide is very 
helpful. It is rather like having a really good GPS navigation system. Suppose one comes to 
a crossroads with no signpost and the way suggested by the system looks to be away from 
the direction one is going. If one accepts that the system is based on good maps and good 
programming, then one goes the way it suggests. Alternatively, one may feel doubtful and try 
all the other paths first. It all depends on one’s faith. The Guru or guide will start by showing 
you in a clear way that what he or she suggests is right. Later, that help stops and then one 
has to accept that the earlier steps were right and so this new advice is also. The Guru is 
a reflector of one’s own inner guide. Sooner or later, one has to find and follow that. Rahu 
causes doubts and questioning. Jupiter gives faith. Both have their own value. If one feels 


blocked by doubt, we can strengthen Jupiter (see the Jupiter names). 


D. ‘lam God’. As Jupiter represents God in the chart, a person whose chart is dominated by 
Jupiter can start to feel like this. When one experiences infinite consciousness, one dissolves 


in the ocean and then feels, ‘l am the ocean’. However, the ‘I’ that speaks is not the ocean. It 


is just an expression of that like all the individual ‘l’s. The knowing is true on its level but that 
cannot be translated into some concept about the ego. As Ramana Maharishi said, there is 


nothing worse than a spiritual somebody. 


This trap is hard to avoid because it is so subtle. Jupiter people are often deeply 
interested in spiritual wisdom. If the Sun is afflicted, then the trap is even more seductive. 
One may have a sense of unworthiness that is quite troubling. The automatic tendency is to 
compensate for this by trying to prove that one is worthy. The real answer is to recognize that 
worthiness and unworthiness are equally illusionary. The feeling of unworthiness is best pa- 


tiently born as part of the scenery. Doing this without complaint, can bring immense rewards. 


30 UANILaA AH: 


om sadaradhyaya namah 


7. To be worshipped (Aradhya) always (Sada). 


Once the nectar starts flowing, bliss absorbs our attention and it is never lost because 
nothing else is more attractive. The giving of attention is true worship and true surrender. 
Without this, the attention is constantly seeking more happiness and jumps here and there. 
One whose attention is absorbed in the inner bliss is always worshipped by the subtle and 
gross beings in the universe. She takes nothing but is constantly radiating her joy. 


Xo UUs FH: 


om satpataye namah 


8. The lord (Pati) of truth and purity (Sat). 


This name continues the commentary on that state of awakening. It tells us that the 
Moon indicates truth and purity in the chart. Through the associations and positions of the 
Moon, one can see to what extent this is found in the life of the individual. We evolve with 
time. As we mature, the finer values of the planets can blossom. If we feel stuck, mantras like 


these can help. 


Every tough combination in an astrological chart, like the Moon with Saturn, suggests 
some outer disturbance (e.g. depression) but also has an inner promise (e.g. life in bliss). 
Those who have a more profoundly anchored inner life may not experience the outer effects 


to the same extent, and pass through the inner transformation promised even at a young age. 


xe OTe AA: 


om sadhupujitaya namah 


9. Worshipped (Pujita) by the awakened. 


Sadhu means those who have ‘done well’ with their lives. The Moon rules over those 
who lead a pure life. What is a pure life? Life is pure when the heart is free from anger and 
other disturbances. If anger arises, it can be channeled so that it turns into peace and auspi- 
ciousness. This starts by focusing the energy on the base of the spine from where the subtle 


channels rise up. Pay attention to the breath. 


The state that everyone seeks is the state of eternal contentment. How is one to find 
it if one is not content with one’s current condition? One may be hoping that some switch 
will flip and then all the non-contentedness will disappear and one will be in bliss. However, 
it is more effective to gently let go of any sense of complaint while practically addressing 
whatever needs to improve in one’s life. Practicing appreciation for everyone and everything 
is most helpful. This is the nature of the saints. They serve mankind out of compassion. 


The universe is constructed by another’s will as Patafjali’s Yoga Sutras (3.45) and 
Vyasa’s commentary on it make clear’. An illumined sage will not manipulate this universe 
because he sees that it was created by another whose laws should be obeyed. However, the 
highest sages can choose to project their own. An aphorism in the Sutras (3.50) describes 
how omnipotence arises and how, in the letting go of even that, the ‘seeds of evil’ are de- 
stroyed. The root seed of evil is clearly the option retained by the individual to interfere in the 


natural law. Abandoning that, all such seeds are roasted. 


The astrologer has great power because of what he or she knows but it is the basic 
ethic that one never uses that power for one’s own end. One can show the client the reality, 
to whatever extent one is able. This vision causes the client to awaken and that is the remedy. 


All other remedies are subsidiary. 
xo Tadoa AH: 
om jitendriyaya namah 


10. In perfect control of the senses (Jitendriya). 


Satisfaction is the key to the control of the senses. However, lasting satisfaction cannot 


come about by any acquisition. It arises from the inner state of peace described throughout 


these names. 


The great sage Parashara describes the Moon as ‘unsteady and love sick’. Ruling 
over the mind and the emotions, it wanders endlessly seeking satisfaction. This mantra is a 
remedy. Once the attention is caught in the sweetness of that state of surrender, the senses 


come to rest. 


Xo THAT AH: 


om jayodyogaya namah 


11. The one who is victorious (Jaya) through perseverance or continuous effort (Udyoga). 


This also indicates success in business ventures or the carrying out of one’s duty. The 
Moon often indicates those with public duties. These require perseverance and diligence. 


Jayodyoga also indicates the steadiness of the inner surrender. This is the ultimate victory. 


The Moon has a wandering tendency and this mantra can serve as a remedy. In order 
to go beyond the mind, one needs to take up and maintain the practices given by one’s Guru 
or mentor whether the Moon is waxing or waning. Sometimes this proves difficult. Calmly 
reestablish one’s practices as soon as one can, without feeling dejected about any failing. 
Astrology shows when one will face difficulties like this. They are limited by the length of the 
cycles involved. 


Practices evolve. If sitting for meditation turns into a process done with open eyes and 
movement, it is only natural for some. The key to practice is effortlessness. Even when some 
doing is involved, the gentler it is, the sweeter the effect. Gentler is closer to God. It is the 
essence of non-violence. The Universe may appear full of creation and destruction but its 


essence is exquisitely tender. 


Xo Saas Vadha AA: 


om jyotiScakrapravartakaya namah 


12. The originator (Pravartaka) of the disc of light. 


The words Jyotish Chakra pertain to both the Svadhisthana or second Chakra and the 
Anahata or heart Chakra. Whether the mind is quiet or busy with needless thoughts depends 
on the purity of the second Chakra. The Moon, being related to both sensuality and the feeling 
heart, naturally takes us into the realms of these Chakras. Pravartaka is also the arbiter. Lust 


can arise in the second Chakra while peace arises in the heart. Where we focus depends on 


the Moon or mind. 


We can also understand this name as reflecting how it is that the movement of the 


Moon through the Nakshatras gives rise to the astrological effects — the flow of life on Earth. 


30 Tanda AA: 


om vikartananujaya namah 


13. The younger to the Sun (Vikartana), or near to him like a brother or sister. 


This brings out the close relationship between the Sun and the Moon and indicates 
the lesser or dependent position of the Moon as the reflector of the Sun’s light. The relative 
velocities of the planets must have been one of the first things observed by our ancestors and 
they are used in various fundamental ways in Jyotisha. For example, the order of lordship of 
the signs is based on the relative velocities. Vikartana also means to cut asunder or divide, 
while Anuja can mean before. This means that we put the Moon’s sign Cancer before the 
Sun’s sign Leo and divide the zodiac into two between them. Then the rest of the lordships 
are assigned in order of decreasing speed, which also indicates increasing distance from the 
Sun. Mercury rules two signs either side of Leo and Cancer. After that, Venus owns two signs, 
then Mars, Jupiter and Saturn each rule two. This is how Saturn owns the signs Aquarius and 
Capricorn opposite Leo and Cancer. 


The velocity scheme is used to determine the planetary hours from which we derive the 
rulers and names of the days of the week. In this, the Sun replaces the Earth as the velocity 
of the Sun is actually the velocity of the Earth. The order of planets from the Sun gives the 
relative speeds and the Sun takes the position of the Earth between Mars and Venus. The 
Moon is the fastest of the celestial bodies. Taken slowest to fastest, this gives Saturn, Jupiter, 
Mars, Sun, Venus, Mercury and the Moon as the lords of the hours. The hour or Hora of the 
Sun starts from sunrise on the first day of the week, which is called Sunday. The 25" hour 
from that is the first hour on the next day and is ruled by the Moon. The next day is ruled by 


Mars and so forth. 


The core principles of Jyotisha are based on astronomy coupled with acute observa- 
tions of life. For example, the basic division of the zodiac is one minute of arc and the rising 
point of the zodiac, the Ascendant, crosses one minute in the time of a single human breath. 
The standard unit of time in ancient India, was the ghati and that is how long it takes the Sun 
to cross one minute of arc. All ancient Vedic units of time were multiples or fractions of a sin- 


gle average breath. 


This is akin to the measurements of distance like a foot or an inch. An inch was orig- 


inally one thumb’s width while a digit was a finger’s breadth. In India, they used the angula, 
which is also a finger’s breadth. Twenty-four angulas make a cubit. The cubit, the distance 
from the elbow to the tip of the middle finger was widely used throughout Classical Europe 
and the Middle East. The modern measure, the metre, was originally proposed by Christopher 
Wren in the UK and Gabriel Moulton in France to be defined based on a pendulum with a one 
second period. The second is one quarter of a typical human breath. The second as a unit of 
time was introduced to Europe by Al-Biruni, the great Muslim scholar who extensively studied 
the arts and sciences of India. Remarkably, these important measures are almost exactly 
related through two of mathematics’ and nature’s most important constants. The cubit is e - 


1 feet. The metre is 6/n cubits. e is Euler’s constant. N is pi. 


0 STW Aa: 


om viraya namah 


14. The powerful one. 


The Moon may be lesser than the Sun but we are immediately reminded that she is full 
of strength and vitality (Vira). As the Moon waxes, life gets more vital. This is the traditional 
time for planting. Weeding is done during the waning phase, as the life force is withdrawing. 
The waxing and waning affects the tides of the ocean and people’s behaviour. It is a very 
powerful force. Those ruled by the Moon may be gentle and yet they can also be true heroes. 


Xo Taser AH: 


om viSvesaya namah 


15. The Lord (fsha) of all. 


Vishva is the universe. It is all things and that which is all pervading. The power of 
the Moon is not confined to any category. All rulership involves the mind and the heart. It is 
impossible to function without these spheres indicated or ruled by the Moon. This also makes 
it clear that the mind rules life as there is no experience or action without its agency. Even 
though the soul witnesses the mind, the decisions are all made in the mind, and so it appears 


as the lord. 


Xo Taqurada 4H: 


om vidusampataye namah 


16. The Lord (Pati) of the wise (Vidus) or learned ones. 


This name shows that the Moon indicates the wise and learned. A pure heart and mind 


are a prerequisite to being truly wise. 


Xo STHNHUY AG: 


om dosakaraya namah 


17. Free (Akara) from reproach (Dosa), faultless. 


If the heart and mind are completely pure, there is no mistake. Since selfishness gives 
rise to all kinds of errors, relaxing that leads to purity of heart and renders one naturally free 
from mistakes. The nature of a mother is to care for the child without any calculation of self- 
interest. The stronger and less afflicted the Moon is in a person’s chart, the more nurturing an 


attitude they are likely to have. 


The influence of other planets on the Moon causes various degrees of Dosa. For exam- 
ple, the influence of Saturn can make one introverted. If one can step back, one might realize 
that that is a kind of self-absorption and hinders our ability to care for others. The flip-side 
is that those whose Moon is influenced by Saturn can appreciate the suffering of others and 
are much benefitted by giving service to those in need. Further, the introspection and periods 
of retreat that it often leads to can be most beneficial. The influence of Mars can make one 
rather impatient and willful along with being very dynamic and even athletic. The influence of 
Rahu, the Northern eclipse point, is capable of making one deeply empathetic. The downside 
is a tendency to be fearful and have a poor self-image. In India, the worship of the Goddess 
Durga is recommended to overcome such difficulties. She carries many weapons So facing 
Her is an exercise in overcoming fear. If fear is not addressed one may feel the need to try and 


control one’s circumstances, which can cause tension with others. 


One small exercise for any kind of fear is to consider, “What is the worst thing that 
could happen?” Whatever it is, then one can review how one would cope with that. Eventu- 
ally, one will get to a place where one says, “Yes, | can do this.” The worst fear is usually 
around dying. Of course, death is inevitable but we have to find our own realization about 
it and whatever suffering we imagine might come along with life’s end. Fear is rooted in the 
Dosa, which is external to the soul. This name tells us that the natural state of the mind is 
free from Dosa and thus, free from fear, anger and misery. Whatever emotions arise, there is 
always a part of one’s awareness that is not disturbed. Repeating these names and meditat- 


ing on them can gradually help. 


Another meaning of this name is the creator (Kara) of the night or darkness (Dosa). We 
can infer that the mind, which the Moon represents, is the source of both fault and faultless- 


ness. As it is often said, it is all in the mind. 


So CBG TH: 


om dustaduraya namah 


18. Far away (Dura) from wickedness (Dusta). 


A pure mind is free from sin. It is important to accept that we can only find a fault in 
another, if that fault lies in us. If a public figure makes repeated speeches condemning certain 
behaviour, then that is surely that person’s problem. The ancients believed that the greatest 


praise that a person can be given is that they were never heard speaking ill of anyone. 


22 Ufprd FH: 


om pustimate namah 


19. Nourishing (Pustiman). 


Pusti is also breeding and rearing and is related to the Moon’s connection with the 
womb and motherhood as a whole. It is about growing and increasing. The Moon is the prin- 
cipal energy for growth and is known to influence the growth of plants. It indicates strength 


and plumpness. Later in life, lunar energy can create a certain roundness. 


Pusti is also indicative of wealth, property, means of comfort, richness, magnificence, 
development and perfection. Man indicates the possession of these. The centre of the lunar 
sign, Gancer, is the Nakshatra Pushya (Pusya), a name that is derived from the same root and 


indicates blossoming. 


Xo TAPAS AH: 


om Sistapalakaya namah 


20. He protects (Palaka) the learned and the wise (Shista). 


The Moon is connected to teachers. The Nakshatra Pushya in the centre of the Moon’s 
sign Gancer has as its Vedic ruler Brhaspati, the Guru of the gods. He is said to reside in the 


Great Bear (Ursa Major). This contains the stars the Vedas call the Sapta Rishi or seven seers, 


which fall in Pushya. These stars are said to be the seven great Gurus who guide the welfare 
of mankind. Their wives, except for one, Arundhati, reside in the Pleiades, the group of six 
stars in Krittika Nakshatra, in the sign of Taurus. 


The six wives were exiled due to a suspicion of infidelity with the fire god Agni, later 
disproved. The one wife, Arundhati, who remained with her husband Vasistha, did so due 
to her extreme chastity. No one could even question her, showing how purity can overcome 
even the worst destiny. Arundhati is Alcor, the smaller star in the double star in Ursa Major. 
Pushya is said to be good for everything except marriage because of fidelity issues or fears 
related to this constellation. 


Both Taurus and Cancer are related to the Moon. The Moon is exalted in Taurus where 
it is most fertile. The exaltation occurs in Krittika, which is followed by Rohini, which is said to 
be the Moon’s favourite Nakshatra. It is actually true that in many months the Moon can take 
a little longer to cross Rohini than other constellations. Rohini is connected to the sowing of 
seed. 


The story goes that the Moon was married to the 27 Nakshatras, the daughters of the 
progenitor Daksa. Seeing him favouring Rohini, Daksa cursed the Moon with a disease that 
causes degeneration. As the world was being deprived of the light of the Moon with its nectar 
and growth energy (Pusti), the gods appealed to Daksa. He modified the curse to be an alter- 
nation of growth and decay, waxing and waning. 


Pushya, the centre of Cancer, is related to the public role of ruling and guiding. It has a 
caring energy due to the Moon’s motherly characteristic. Its planetary ruler is Saturn*, which 
stands for democracy. However, it carries the weight of authority. Its deity, Brhaspati, is not 
only hailed as the Guru of the gods but is also said to be the lord of the great (Jupiter 97) and 
the lord of all (Jupiter 105). While Taurus bears, nourishes and holds, Cancer can guide, care 


and protect those who follow faithfully. 


The Divine Mother is said to be Gurumurti or the One taking embodiment as the Guru. 
Thus, every Guru is an appearance of the Divine Mother. The true Guru is the perfect integra- 
tion of power and absolute tenderness. The great souls have a fully developed inner feminine. 
They are always tender and gentle while surgically cutting the roots of ignorance in those who 
surrender at their feet. The principal place of the Guru is in the sign of the Mother, Cancer. 
Jupiter is exalted here in the lunar mansion Pushya. This exalted Jupiter is fully exemplifying 
Gurumurti. 


Xo APHATWA AH: 


om astamurtipriyaya namah 


21. Beloved (Priya) of Shiva and of the whole of nature. 


Lord Shiva is hailed as Astamurti. He is so fond of the Moon that he adorns His head 
with her. Astamiarti can indicate the whole of nature that is eightfold. In the Vedas, it speaks of 
this eightfold nature. These eight always include the five great elements, earth, water, fire, air 
and space. The other three can be taken in various ways such as the mind, intellect and ego 
or the Sun, the Moon and the initiator of sacrifice (Yajamanas). This is not different because 
the Sun indicates the ego, or fundamental sense of individual existence, the Moon is the mind 
and the Yajamanas is the intellect that decides the steps to be taken. Life itself is the sacri- 


fice. All of the relative existence is made up of the intermixture of these eight. 


The Moon is dear to nature, as she is the cause of its growth and development. 
Everyone feels a fondness for the mother principle, wherever one finds it. This helps to pro- 


tect the most crucial of natural functions. 


The Sama Veda is the second principal text of the Vedas, after the Rig. It is largely 
comprised of sung hymns from the Rig Veda. In the Sama, it says that when the eightfold 
melts into oneness, it cries: ‘Ashta rodati’. It cries because its nature as eight is being broken 
down into oneness. As soon as the boundary or the attachment to the differentiation is 
relaxed, waves of bliss are produced. From that arises Jyoti or the light of life. In this way, 
the Sama Veda describes our evolutionary experience. Every time we let go of some issue 
or attachment, there is an internal or even external crying, and then a wave of relief that can 
turn into pure joy. Life gets a little lighter, a stage more enlightened. This is the process of 


awakening. 


No issue is worth hanging on to, however precious, because that is enough to sustain 
the addiction to difference and keep the full light of life hidden. Lord Shiva exemplifies the 
state beyond difference. He, that state itself, carries the experience of difference mediated 
by the Moon or the mind on his forehead as a slim crescent. It is there as a mere decoration 
and in its most refined or minimized form. The crescent Moon’s presence means that in the 
enlightened state there exists just enough of the mind to maintain experience without all its 


wavering or craving tendencies. 
30 34q=q1a AA: 
om anantaya namah 


22. The endless (Ananta). 


While ever waxing and waning, the Moon continues. So does the mind or the activity 


of nature. 


30 HECTOPSCATA ATH: 


om kastadarukutharakaya namah 


23. The axe (Kufharaka) cutting the tree of misery (Kasfadaru). 


The mother is always there to wipe the tears of the children. The type of ruler indicated 
by the Moon is committed to relieving the suffering of the people. The compassion of the 
Guru strikes at the root of the illusion, which we mistakenly buy into and from which, 
ultimately, all our suffering comes. We long for union because our individual egos are so 
many fragments of the great Mother seeking the great Father, the eternal Oneness. First, one 
identifies the goal externally and try many things to attain it. Along the way, one faces many 
difficulties because what we seek has to be sought in competition with others. These troubles 
make us lose interest gradually in the outer stuff of life and eventually we realize that the goal 


must be within. At this stage, we are coming close to realizing the ultimate truth. 


30 TAYAIMA AG: 


om svaprakaSaya namah 


24. Shining by the light (Prakasha) of the Self (Sva). 


The Sun represents the self. The Moon shines by the light of the Sun just as the mind 
sees by virtue of the fact that we exist. Svaprakasha can also mean self-illumined, in the 
sense of not illumined by another. In the Yoga Sutras of Patajfijali, it argues that while the mind 
is not self-illumined, it arises out of the heart, which, being identified with pure conscious- 


ness, shines as the Self. Therefore, the Moon represents the mind and the heart. 


xo YRC AG: 


om prakasatmane namah 


25. Whose very soul (Atman) is shining (Prakasha) or is light itself. 


The soul or essence of the Moon or mind is the pure light of Being. Moon 24 and 25 
indicate that someone with a strong and unafflicted Moon in their Vedic astrological chart 
naturally shines with the light of the Self. It is a characteristic of Divine Incarnations like Shri 


Rama and Shri Krishna that they have a strong Moon in the first house of the chart. That 


means the Moon was rising over the Eastern horizon at the time of birth. 


So Gaus AH: 


om dyucaraya namah 


26. Moving (Chara) in the heavens. 


This also means that the Moon is sometimes seen during the day (Dyu - daylight) 
and that when it moves it shines (Dyu - brightness). This also illustrates how the inherently 
unmoving absolute moves within itself and that movement causes a glow or light. That is how 
it is both darkness and light at the same time. Its unmoving characteristic is often Known first 
and then it appears to be total darkness. When the absolute’s inner dynamism awakes in our 
awareness, then it shines. First, one knows silence. As one gets used to that silence, one 
comes to know its inner dynamics. This happens by itself, it just takes some time. This is the 
same process as described in all the creation stories as in Genesis in the Bible, and in the 
Manu Smriti in the Vedic literature. In the beginning, there was darkness and void and then 
there was light. 


The Biblical story of the genesis is like the Big Bang theory where the universe appears 
out of nothing. Physics has shown that the absolute zero of the vacuum of space, which is 
empty, is full of virtual dynamism so that in certain special circumstances, it glows. 


In the process of enlightenment, first the inner silence and its dynamics are known. 
Then the dynamism ‘within’ is allowed to stop or ‘die’. This is to return to the Pure Being but 
it is not the same as the earlier stage. This is the ultimate letting go. Nothing except absolute 
truth and pure knowing remain without any sense of individuality. It just is. 


xo QUA AH: 


om devabhojanaya namah 


27. The food (Bhojana) of the gods (Deva). 


The gods are said to owe their immortality to drinking the Soma or nectar. In the ninth 
Mandala or section of the Rig Veda it repeatedly says ‘Indu flow for Indra’. Indu is the Soma 
and is another name for the Moon. Indra is the chief of the gods, and symbolizes the whole- 
ness of our own consciousness. The flow of the Soma is invoked for our nourishment. This 
name elaborates on the previous one. It is the movement of the immoveable that generates 
the Soma and that causes the glow. The impact on the body is the creation of Ojas (Sun 43 


and 69), so the skin shines. Ojas is basic to the immune system, just as Soma is that which 


sustains the gods or natural law. It has been called the glue of the universe. 


When the immovable is not known, then the physiology ages and even society 
degrades. When some members of society are living in the bliss of truth, then it sustains the 
integrity of their environment. This is described in the scriptures and is intuitively understood 
everywhere. Hence, spiritual communities have always attracted public support in the expec- 


tation that they would cultivate this in themselves. 


30 Helena AG: 


om kaladharaya namah 


28. Having (Dhara) digits (Kala). 


The Moon as it waxes and wanes is said to have digits. As we only see the Moon for 
part of each 24 hours, each time it appears it is a little less or a little more. These digits are 
related to the Tithis or lunar days. There are almost 30 days between full Moons, so there are 
15 digits or lunar days in each half of the lunar month: the waxing and the waning. Each Tithi 
has a goddess or divine energy associated with it. The worship of these, called Nityas, is a 
key part of the elaborate ritualized practice of Tantra in India. That is why the great mantra 
is said to have 15 syllables (Panchadashi) or 16 (Shodashi) if one counts the junction point 
between the two halves, a transcendental point. Though they are related, the mantra one 
finds commonly written is not the mantra that is given to the initiate. | have observed that it is 
very important to learn the Shodashi only after one has been practicing the Panchadashi for 


an extended period of time. The Shodashi mantra is complex and intended for renunciates. 


30 Hlaeda AU: 


om kalahetave namah 


29. The cause (Hetu) of time (Kala). 


The Vedic calendar is based on the lunar month so in this sense the motion of the 
Moon defines time. Unless the mind moves, there is no sense or experience of time. When the 
mind stops, we are simply resting in eternity, pure consciousness. This is Samadhi in which 
100 years seems to be not even a moment. It is highly analogous to Einstein's Theory of Rel- 


ativity. A body moving at the speed of light, like light itself, knows no time and no change. 


Xp Hed 4H: 


om kamakrte namah 


30. The maker (Krt) of pleasure (Kama). 


Kamakrt is the creator of desire as well as pleasure. Ordinarily, desire torments us with 
a sense of needing something. On the other hand, when the silent mind is just starting to 
move there is a ripple of bliss. It is a wave of the pure consciousness, stirred by the movement 
of the mind. All real joy arises in the same way, from a movement out of or within silence. 
Comparatively, the pleasure that arises when we get what we want is so slight and brief to be 


scarcely worth calling pleasure, even though this pleasure is also provided by the mind. 


The Moon stands above the spinal column at a high point of the path of the Goddess 
Kundalini. When She reaches there, then the orb starts to drip nectar. This nourishes the 


whole body and is indescribably sweet. 


30 HACIA AH: 
om kamadayakaya namah 


31. The giver (Dayaka) of pleasure. 


Kama is pleasure, sensuality, desire, longing and the Moon causes or imparts this. 
Moon 30 says that she creates desire. This name has the sense of fulfilling it. Kama is also a 


name for the Cupid. 


Ko TRATES RHA AH: 


om mrtyusamharakaya namah 


32. The destroyer (Samhdraka) of death (Mrtyu). 


If there was any doubt about the meaning of the previous name (31), this makes it clear 
that the pleasure referred to was the dripping of the Soma or nectar, as this is the cause of the 
destruction of death. The Soma is said to be the nectar of immortality. It comes with the aris- 


ing of a state of consciousness that is eternal (Moon 22 and 30). 


Maharishi Parashara describes the Moon as ‘love sick’, which is a translation of 


Madana. This can mean lust but primarily it means delighting, exhilarating (literally ‘madden- 


ing’) or intoxicating. This is how one feels when the delight of that nectar starts flowing. The 


flow of the nectar within averts death, the body starts to shine and ageing is delayed. 


30 SACU AG: 


om amartyaya namah 


33. Immortal. 


Amartya refers to a state of consciousness that is capable of moving without moving. 
It is a state that never dies. It is beyond the body, both its subtle and gross forms. This name 
can be used to support a theory that the mind, or some aspect of it, is carried from life to life. 
People do remember mental images and information from previous lives. | do, and there is 


abundant research evidence for that®. 


Xo TATRA CHa AH: 
om nityanusthanadayakaya namah 


34. Causing (Dayaka) the regular (Nitya) practice of religious rites or austerities (Anusthana). 


Like all these names, this one has an outer and an inner indication. The outer indication 
is clear. The Moon in the chart shows the propensity for such practice and the course of the 
Moon defines the religious calendar. All the practices are regulated by the lunar months and 
sequence of days. One living in a state where there was a continuous flow of inner Soma 


nourishes the whole of nature. This consciousness is truly Nitya or eternal. 


In Vedic times, a Soma Yaga or ritual was performed at the beginning of the lunar year 
and was said to sustain the gods. It is believed that if the regular practice of the Soma Yaga 
stops, then the climate will go out of balance and disaster will befall mankind. These days, 
the performance has become very rare, maybe once or twice in a decade. Some experts are 
still there to do it but it requires considerable funds though the amount is entirely insignificant 
compared with the cost of even a very small drought. With the rising challenge of climate 


change, | hope donors will come forward to sponsor these Yagas. 


0 AUTH Uy AA: 


om ksapakaraya namah 


35. Fasting. 


Ksapa is the night, Kara is to create. Ksapa is fasting, abstinence or performing 
penance. Akara suggests abundance. One simple meaning is the creator of the night, while 
the other is frequent or repeated fasting. Naturally, we fast at night; at least we should for 
good health. In addition, most fasting is done according to the lunar or the solar-lunar calen- 
dar. Ramadan is based on a purely lunar calendar while Lent and fast days in India are based 
on the solar-lunar calendar, where each month runs from New Moon to New Moon or from 
Full Moon to Full Moon. In either case, there are 30 lunar days in a month and is equivalent 
to about 29% calendar days. For example, many people fast on the Ekadashi. This is the qth 
Tithi or lunar day. 


The inner indication is related to identification. The mind experiences its objects 
through the senses. In the process, if the awareness of the pure consciousness or the 
unmoving element is lost then the mind eats, as it were, its objects and becomes dull. The 
enlightened experience the world but are not lost in it. This is true fasting or abstinence. It pro- 


motes crystal clarity. 


30 STTa Aa: 


om ksinapapaya namah 


36. Thinning or destroying sinfulness. 


This elaborates on the benefits of fasting as just described (Moon 35). When the Moon 
wanes, the emotional body appears to become increasingly dark. This can make for unhap- 
piness or rather a frustrated willfulness. Gently resting inside that darkness awakens the real 
light of life. One lets go of the demand that one should feel this or that. This demand is the 
Papa or sin. 


As the Moon waxes we enjoy the rising energy in everything. As it wanes or becomes 
increasingly Kshina, letting go and letting be internally dissolves whatever identification or il- 


lusion arose in the waxing phase. 
0 FAA UArAaAMT AA: 
om ksayavrddhisamanvitaya namah 


37. Waning and waxing. 


Kshaya means decline and Vriddhi means increase. Samanvita means possessed of. 


These follow in a natural sequence. Wherever the Moon appears in the chart, the significa- 


tions must alternatively increase and decrease. For example, if the Moon is in the eleventh 
house of gains, then the income can fluctuate. It is well-known to gardeners that one should 
plant in the waxing phase and weed in the waning phase. The waning phase provides a crit- 
ical service in the overall progress of life. If one’s income decreases then one naturally starts 


trimming unnecessary areas of expense, helping future prosperity. 


Xo STATI AH: 


om jaivatrkaya namah 


38. Increasing longevity. 


Jaiva is that which belongs to the individual soul. Atr increases. Ka pertains to or 
causes Jaivatr. The principle possession of the individual soul is a certain span of longevity. 
This is initially given by the parents, primarily the mother indicated by the Moon. Since the 
Moon rules the natural fourth house, the mother gives %. As the father is seen in the ninth 
house, he gives 1/9. The sum of these two is 13/,... If we say that the body can live for 100 
years, then 100 x 15/4, is about 36 years. It is well known that the strength of the body builds 
up to about 35 and then starts declining. | remember being told this when | was about 30 and 
the amazement when | experienced the exact truth of it. Up to age 35, one feels so strong that 
the idea of decline seems impossible. 


The Moon’s beneficial associations and afflictions in the Vedic chart are seen for judg- 
ing the longevity as well as the entirety of the individual's experience of life. If a combination 
in the Vedic chart suggests some outcome and it is not associated with the Moon, then it may 
never be experienced. This is why the Moon is given primary importance by many astrologers 
in India. 


x0 Way AH: 


om Sucaye namah 


39. Innocent and undefiled (Shuc/). Also a true and faithful friend; the sentiment of love; bril- 


liant and shining; one who has acquitted her duty. 


All these are attributes of the Moon. In the Vedic literature it is said that women are 
very pure because each month their impurities are discharged through the menses. Further, 
it says that a chaste woman has a special power, that whatever she says will come to pass. 
Therefore, wise people pay such women great respect. Such a one can bless and also, even 


unintentionally, curse. The great saint of India, Ramakrishna Paramahamsa once said about 


his wife, Shri Sharada Devi, ‘If God is angry with you, | can save you, but if she is angry with 
you, No one can save you.’ 


So IT TH: 


om subhraya namah 


40. Shining. Radiant. 


Shubhra also means the colour white and white sandalwood, which is an article that 
can be offered in the worship of the Moon and the Goddess along with white flowers. 


xo SA Aa: 


om jayine namah 


41. Naturally victorious (Jayin). 


One with a pure mind cannot be defeated; all the forces of nature will protect him even 
if he will not protect himself. One of my favourite stories is about a monk who was an ardent 
follower of St Francis. One day he arrived in a village just after a murder had taken place. 
Seeing a stranger, they seized him and asked him if he was guilty. He said something to the 
effect of “surely, |am a sinner.” So they rushed him to a tree and prepared to hang him. 


The monk simply accepted everything as God’s will and said nothing. Just as they 
were about to carry out the punishment, another person arrived in the village who was ac- 
quainted with the monk. He immediately stopped them. These sudden swings of fortune had 
no effect on the mind of the monk. He accepted everything as the will of God. 


xo HAMHAVCTT AA: 


om jayaphalapradaya namah 


42. Giving the fruit (Phala) of victory (Jaya). 


The Moon often indicates politicians. Astrologically, it is the Queen, so it can indicate 
rulership. This is the fruit of victory in the world as victory is an essential ingredient in acquir- 
ing and sustaining leadership. In particular, if a strong Moon rises in the chart of a person 
seeking higher office, she will be hard to beat. President Barack Obama has an exceptionally 
strong Moon. It does not rise but it is in the 5" house of power and was fully activated by the 


Jupiter Moon Dasha at the time of his first Presidential election. 


Such victories give temporary results. The real victory is coming into a true relationship 


with one’s mind and emotions. 


0 Gaara AH: 


om sudhamayaya namah 


43. The container of nectar or a nectar-like structure such as a royal palace. 


Sudhamaya can also mean a watery place, especially a lake or river. These are two of 


the Moon’s principal indications. It also signifies white or white-washed buildings. 


xe Etats AH: 


om surasvamine namah 


44. The lord (Svamin) of the immortals (Sura: the gods or natural laws). 


This indicates the important place of the Moon in regulating natural law, such as 
through the tides and the growth of things, the menstrual cycle and the very real effect of the 
lunar cycle on everyone. 


Xo UMTS aaa AG: 


om bhaktanamistadayakaya namah 


45. She fulfils (Dayaka) the desires (/sfa) of the devotees (Bhakta). 


Whether the Moon represents the queen, the Goddess or our earthly mother, she has 
to fulfil our desires if we surrender to her. If we are full of our self-importance, she will give 
to us but it may be delayed. If we ask the Mother Goddess for something that we cannot 
acquire with our present body, then we may have to take another birth to be able to receive 
it, so if we ask intently in a holy place, we may die soon. From Her perspective this is a minor 
inconvenience. We are so attached to whatever body we have that we find this idea hard to 
bear. Even flies and mosquitoes try to save themselves. Such is the depth of the survival in- 


stinct and the identification with the body. 


3 ater AH: 


om bhuktidaya namah 


46. The giver (Da) of enjoyments. 


Bhukti is not just the objects of pleasure but also the mood of naturally enjoying. 


3 Afar AH: 


om muktidaya namah 


47. The giver (Da) of liberation (Mukti). 


Whatever the nature of the desire, She can grant it. One of the names of Lalita, the 
playful form of the Goddess, is BhuktiMuktiPradayin’. This means the giver of Bhukti (enjoy- 
ment - literally ‘eating’) and Mukti (spiritual freedom). Note the order: First the entertainment 
and then the liberation. Some people think that by acquiring liberation (of which they have 
only a misconception) they will ‘fix’ their lives and acquire the enjoyments they crave. How- 
ever, to achieve Mukti, one must completely let go of all craving. After that, nothing remains 
that has to be acquired. All the pleasures may present themselves but there is no grasping for 


them, they just remain as they are. 


Tulsidas was one of India’s greatest poet saint. As the story goes, in his youth, Tulsidas 
was totally intoxicated with his new wife. He could not get enough of their relationship. After 
some time she tired of it and made an excuse to go for the night to her parents’ house. During 
his night alone, he became so desperate that he got up and went to that house, crossing 
a river using a dead body and climbing to her window by the help of a large snake. This is 
how the story was written to make clear the mind of Tulsidas. He was so focused on his goal 
that he paid no heed to the external details of what he was doing. His wife saw his state 
and, doubtless without any regard for the consequences, she said that if he was as devoted 
to God as he was to her, he would easily be in the Divine presence. This stopped him in his 
tracks and he immediately abandoned his householder life and took to meditation. As she 


had predicted, he became one of India’s greatest devotees. 


Tulsidas wrote the story of Shr Rama in the vernacular. When he first showed his 
book to the great pandits of Varanasi, they were aghast. The story had only been available in 
Sanskrit. There was such opposition and demands for the book to be burnt that he said “Let 
God decide”. It was decided that the book would be left before Lord Shiva in the temple and 


if He put his mark on it during the night that would show that it was fit for publication. If not, 
Tulsidas was ready to be killed. The pandits agreed. The temple was locked and guarded. 
In the morning, there was a clear mark of a trident having been pressed into the front of the 


book. Tulsidas’ Rama Charita Manasa is one of India’s most popular books even today. 


ao YCTa AU: 


om bhadraya namah 


48. Auspicious and fortunate (Bhadra). 


The sight of the Moon is always welcome and when astrologers are asked a question 
they consider the Moon as a marker of good fortune. Motherhood and married women are 


also considered very auspicious. 


30 UMAGA AH: 


om bhaktadaridryabhafhjanaya namah 


49. Dispelling (Bhafijana) the poverty (Daridrya) of the devotees (Bhakta). 


Wealth is associated with the Goddess Lakshmi and people pray to her for wealth. She 
is normally associated with Venus but Parvati, who is associated with the Moon, can equally 
destroy our poverty. The mother is always ready to give to the child. If the Moon is strong 
and unafflicted in the astrological chart, the person is unlikely to be poor. Of course, there are 
other factors to consider but a good Moon indicates a strong mind and this is generally suffi- 


cient for a person to achieve what they desire. 


0 GAMMA AG: 


om samaganapriyaya namah 


50. Fond (Priya) of the songs (Gana) of the Sama Veda. 


The Sama Veda is sung, other Vedas are chanted. The Sama is said to be the actual 
sounds of nature’s functioning as we could experience it. These vibrations were heard by the 
ancient Rishis (seers). They are also the sounds of the transformations of consciousness and 
are sung to facilitate the process of awakening. Therefore, it is natural for the Guru to encour- 


age the chanting of the Sama Veda in the presence of the disciples. 


Many of these names can be seen as referring to an enlightened teacher or Guru. If the 
Moon is associated with Jupiter at birth, one may look for a Guru. Jupiter is at its best in Can- 


cer, the sign of the Moon. 


x0 TACAHY AH: 


om sarvaraksakaya namah 


51. Protecting (Raksaka) everything and everyone (Sarva). 


This is the role of the Divine. The enlightened protect all those who associate with them 
be they human or of another species. The mother protects her children and the Moon protects 


everyone by regulating the growth of plants and the water cycles of nature. 


xo UNI EAA AA: 


om sargarodbhavaya namah 


52. Born (Udbhava) of the ocean (Sargara). 


There is an interesting scientific theory that suggests that the Moon separated from the 
Earth creating the Pacific Ocean. Sagara is the ocean or sea and it also indicates the numbers 
four and seven. The Moon rules over the fourth sign, Cancer, a water sign and it could be said 
that the heart gets fulfilled in marriage seen in the seventh house. This is because the seventh 
is the fourth from the fourth house. Certainly, marriage or partnership is the basis of mother- 


hood and is the most essential aspect of human existence. 


The mind arises out of the ocean of consciousness and this was illustrated in the 
wonderful story of the Samudra Manthana or the churning of the ocean. In this story, the 
gods and the demons cooperated in chuming the ocean of milk (consciousness) to obtain 
the nectar of immortality (Goma). Many things arose but one was Chandra, the Moon, which 
was given as an adornment to Lord Shiva. Later the Amrita or Soma arose. This story makes 
a distinction between Chandra and Soma. Soma emerges from the internal disc of Chandra 
when the consciousness reaches a sufficient level. To enliven this, Chandra is worshipped as 


Soma. 


Xo warded aa: 


om bhayantakrte namah 


53. Bringing (Krt) an end (Anta) to fear (Bhaya). 


Fearfulness goes with a mind and emotions ungrounded in the steadiness of truth or 
the inner calm. A good ruler also removes fear from the followers or subjects. Fear tends to 
arise from instability. As the Moon waxes and wanes, these mantras help us find the stable 


place within this continuous change. 


Fear and faith are mutually incompatible. Fear rises up and tries to drive out faith. Faith, 
being essentially pure, does not fight with fear but if we hold onto faith, she will not allow fear 
to take over. Suppose one is faced with a ghost or any type of terrifying situation. If one gives 
way to fear, one can even die of heart failure. If one says, “I trust in God, if He wishes, | will 
not be harmed. Whatever He wishes | accept”, then fear has no hold and one’s faith will be 


rewarded. 


Often problems arise in human relationships because of a lack of faith. If one has seen 
that one’s partner is to be trusted, then, when one is gripped with fear or anxiety, one should 
give him or her one’s trust consistently. Forgetting this has been the cause of countless 
disasters. Fear pushes one towards panic and that is when one can make serious mistakes. 
The answer is to find a way to relax or put one’s faith in someone who is calm and known 
to be competent. Most people find this difficult because fear is so compelling. It may help to 
practice facing one’s predominant source of fear in a very safe place so we can stay calm. 
This is like the people who are afraid of spiders who attend a course to overcome the fear. 
Within a few days, they are calmly handling poisonous spiders. A trusted person has taken 


them through a process of gradually overcoming the fear. 


0 UPHUFATA AH: 
om bhaktigamyaya namah 


54. Attainable (Gamya) through devotion (Bhakti). 


How is fearlessness obtained? Steadiness arises out of devotion which is the purest 
expression of the heart. Faith is a critical part of devotion. The Moon represents the heart and 


thus devotion itself. 


30 FaAA-MaAq aA AH: 


om bhavabandhavimocakaya namah 


55. Freeing (Vimochaka) us from emotional bonds. 


Bhavabandha is the attachment to worldliness, to the idea that ‘l am me and all this is 
mine’. Truth is like the knowing of an actor in a play. He is absorbed in it and yet aware that 
it is just a part that will soon be over. The idea that nothing exists beyond the human life is 
like the actor forgetting that he or she has a life outside of the play. Then he is trapped in the 
brief existence of that play — just an hour or two to live and experience. When | worked in the 
theatre, sometimes | felt like that because | enjoyed the performances so much. | can remem- 


ber the pain that came with the briefness. 


Thoughts and feelings only know their little scope and their desperate impermanence. 
No wonder we suffer when we identify with them, when we take them as our life. This name 
arises here since thoughts and feelings are indicated by the Moon and every ill contains its 


own medicine. 


Xo SUVA HUNT AF: 
om jagatprakasakiranaya namah 


56. The splendorous (PrakaSa) rays of light (Kirana) of the world (Jagat). 


If there is no mind, there is no world. The Moon indicates the mind and its light gives us 
the experience of the world. It also shows us what is true when we relax our grip and gently 
let go of all our issues and agendas. At night, it is the Moon that gives us light both outside 


and inside. In deep sleep, the mind gives dreams and revelations. 


Our mother and the Mother are the light of our world. 


30 SICMH-cqpnonay Aq: 
om jagadanandakaranaya namah 


57. The cause (Karana) of the joy (Ananda) of the world (Jagad). The one who gives rise to the 


bliss of all beings. 


As the Moon waxes, all beings feel more alive. Even the plants grow more. Mother and 
motherhood are the greatest source of joy. Any obstacles to this joy are seen as afflictions to 
the Moon in the Vedic chart. Vedic Astrology believes that life can be improved through vari- 


ous remedies. 


0 TASQUCATa AG: 


om nihsapatnaya namah 


58. He has no rival or enemy (Nihsapatna). 


A mother’s heart only knows how to give so she has no sense of enmity toward others. 
The Moon alone, amongst the nine planets of astrology, sees no one as an enemy. Others, 
out of selfishness, may see her as an enemy. It is natural that the Moon indicates a ruler who 


cares like a mother. 


The two female planets are very different in this regard. The Moon sees no enemies 
and is entirely unselfish. Venus can be selfish and may see someone who does not cooperate 
as an opponent. That is why Venus can seek retribution. On the other hand, Venus is by na- 


ture very friendly. Venus wants to have fun with you while the Moon asks if you have eaten. 


Xo TAUSIUa AH: 
om niraharaya namah 


59. Not eating (Nirahara). 


This name can refer to fasting like Moon 35 or it indicates a condition that requires no 
food to sustain it. This has the same meaning along with the inner indication of a state devoid 
of the idea of ‘me’ and ‘mine’. Normally, the mind ‘eats’ the objects revealed by the senses 
but there is a condition where they are seen but no identification occurs. This may seem to 


make no sense unless one has experienced it. 


There are many examples in nature of animal mothers who fast for long periods usually 
for the sake of protecting their offspring. Examples are octopuses and whales. There are 
examples, both in the West and the East, of saintly people who have no need to eat such as 
Alexandrina Maria da Costa and Prahlad Jani (see Sun 52) both of whom were tested by ex- 


pert doctors. 
x0 TqatHnia Aq: 
om nirvikaraya namah 


60. Unperturbed (Nirvikara). 


The Moon is associated with being emotional and thus often perturbed. This mantra 
may help bring more balance. Nirvikara also means free from modification or change, includ- 
ing changing the mind or purpose, and free from sickness or agitation. It indicates a state of 
consciousness, like the image of Shiva, where the Moon or mind has become an ornament. 


0 THUAarea Aa: 


om niramayaya namah 


61. Without defect, unpolluted. 


The Moon is Sattvic or pure by nature and likes its environment to be in such a 
condition. This may be one reason why Cancer and Leo sometimes have a problem with 
marriage. These signs face signs of Saturn who is not usually Sattvic. It helps if Saturn is in a 
Sattvic sign (ruled by the Sun, Moon or Jupiter) or associated with a Sattvic planet like Jupiter. 


30 YOOISSONAA AH: 
om bhucchaya'cchaditaya namah 


62. Hidden (Acchadita) by the shadow of the Earth (@hu Chhaya). 


This name shows how well the ancients knew the nature of a lunar eclipse. It also tells 
us how the shadow of matter hides the light of the soul, which reflects through the mind or 
heart. It is not the objects that hide the light but their shadow, which is the belief that ‘l am me, 
this is mine’. This belief is perfectly natural if the Self is not known. Merely trying to believe 
otherwise achieves nothing. If the Self is known, then the understanding changes by itself. 
One sees the Self to be all-pervading. 


30 Youy A: 


om bhavyaya namah 


63. Auspicious (Bhavya), calm, tranquil, fit or worthy, fortunate, happy, handsome or beautiful. 


The Moon and Jupiter are the cause of beauty according to Maharishi Jaimini. 


So MOAT AHA AH: 


om bhuvanapratipalakaya namah 


64. Protecting (Pratipalaka) mankind and the earth (Bhuvana). 


Wise rulers, environmentalists and sages could all be indicated here as well as the true 
mother and father in all of us. The 64 name is special because it is 4 x 4 x 4 and 4 is the 
number of the sign Cancer, which is ruled by the Moon. The fourth house is the place we feel 
in our heart and where we enjoy our relatives and home. The 4th from the 4" is the place of 
our partner who enchants our heart. The 4" from the 4" from the 4'" is the tenth house of 
career and status where we take action so we can support our spouse, our home and our so- 


ciety and keep it free from poverty and other sufferings. 


A Navamsha is a 108*" part of the zodiac. The 64° Navamsha from the Moon is 
considered dangerous as it falls in the centre of the eighth sign from the Moon, which shows 


mortality. This mantra can act as an antidote to this danger. 


xo GH eus AA: 


om sakalartiharaya namah 


65. Destroying (Hara) all (Saka/a) miseries (Art/. 


This is the role of the mother and the capacity of a strong mind. When a strong Moon 
rises in the Ascendant in the Vedic chart, then the person usually tries to relieve the suffering 


of others. The classic chart examples are Shri Rama and Shri Krishna. 


x0 Olea AH: 
om saumyajanakaya namah 


66. A gentle person (Janaka). 


Saumya is peaceful, mild and gentle. This is the ideal of femininity. Naturally, every 
man and woman has something of both the masculine and the feminine in them. Those areas 
of the Vedic chart that are touched by the Moon show more of the gentle caring feminine 
qualities. In English we speak of a ‘gentleman’ or ‘gentlewoman’ indicating a kindly person of 


good manners. 


30 aezat-aag AU: 


om sadhuvanditaya namah 


67. Worshipped (Vandita) or praised by the wise (Sadhu). 


Anyone with a pure mind attracts the plaudits of wise people. The wise naturally 
respect the feminine. If it is part of their religion, they often worship the Mother Goddess. 
What is more precious than the mother principle? 


xo WaT AA: 


om sarvagamajnaya namah 


68. Knowing (Jfia) all (Sarva) the sacred texts (Agama) or all kinds of knowledge. 


A pure mind is capable of vast learning. It can give an exceptional or photographic 
memory. 


30 Tay AA: 


om sarvajnaya namah 


69. All knowing (Sarvajia). 


All knowingness is not a result of study. It is a natural state that arises when the mind 
becomes purified and the awareness fathoms deep silence. Close to absolute awareness is a 
state in which anything can be known but those pieces of knowledge are trivial compared to 
the dignity of the all-knowingness. 


Purity of mind is not achieved just by diet and fasting even though this may help. One’s 
Rajasic and Tamasic tendencies have to be worn away. Tamas is dullness and activity helps. 
Rajas is constant mental activity that can be calmed by a purer diet, meditation and other 
spiritual practices. Patience and persistence are key. 


0 CAAA Ea AA: 
om sanakadimunistutyaya namah 


70. Praised (Stutya) by the foremost amongst the wise. 


Sanaka and his three brothers (indicated by Ad) were the first humans. These Munis 


are considered immortal. They were born free of any craving and pass their days in medita- 


tion. This name suggests a condition of the mind that is totally at rest. 


Sanaka and his brothers are the Devatas associated with the Chaturamsha or D4 
divisional chart in Vedic Astrology. From this, affairs such as happiness and property are 
determined, which are also known from the fourth house in the chart. The divisional charts 
are subcharts of the Vedic chart that come from the division of a sign into a number of parts. 
These charts focus on a particular issue based on the division and the method of construc- 


tion. To make the D4 chart, each sign is divided into four. 


The Moon rules over the fourth sign and is thus naturally associated with the fourth 
house and the D4. Hence, the special connection with these Munis is mentioned here. This 
emphasizes that, in order to get the benefits of the D4, one needs a pure mind. It is a pure 
mind that attracts the support of the Devatas of the D4. The D4 helps us see intelligence, 
Buddhi, purity, Shuddhi, increase, Vriddhi, and perfection, Siddhi. These are the qualities 
associated with the four angles or Kendras of a chart and elaborated in the D4 sub-chart. 


Nothing is achieved without these four ‘Dhis’. 


xo TaaoaoAcasntana AH: 


om sitacchatradhvajopetaya namah 


71. Having (Upeta) a white umbrella (Sita Chhatra) as his sign (Dhvaja). 


Traditionally in India, due to the strength of the Sun, royalty and high dignitaries had 
umbrellas to protect them. They are a mark of high station. The Moon has a white one indica- 


tive of purity or Sattva. 
30 Tag Ta AH: 
om sitangaya namah 


72. Having white limbs or body (Ariga). 


White (Sita) means both pale and pure. 


a0 TeaoUe AH: 


om sitabhusanaya namah 


73. With white (Sita) ornaments (Bhusana). 


White cloth, flowers and ornaments are used in the worship of the Moon. 


x0 PAA AA: 


om Ssvetamalyambaradharaya namah 


74. Wearing (Dhara) a white garland (Shveta Malya) and white clothes (Ambara). 


0 YAK UAA AA: 


om Svetagandhanulepanaya namah 


75. Anointed (Anulepana) with white sandalwood paste (Shveta Gandha). 


This name indicates an odour of absolute purity, which is essentially odourless. 


Xo TMAYPESM AH: 
om dasasvarathasamridhaya namah 


76. Riding (Samrudha) a chariot (Ratha) with ten horses (Dasasva). 


The mind functions through the ten Indriyas - the five organs of action and the five 
senses. The five organs of action are the legs, the arms, the mouth, the anus and the 
reproductive organs. The five senses are the organs of hearing, feeling, seeing, tasting and 
smelling. 


xo ZUSUUA AH: 


om dandapanaye namah 


77. Halding (Pani) a staff (Danda) indicating the power of rulership. 


Kings take up the Danda when they have to punish or as a symbol of their earthly 
power like a sceptre. The staff also indicates the spinal column and hence the awakened 
Kundalini. Swamis carry a staff to indicate their awakened state or as a reminder for them of 
what they are to attain if they are yet not fully realized. 


30 Ty AH: 


om dhanurdharaya namah 


78. Holding (Dhara) a bow (Dhanu). 


The Grahas or planets are depicted carrying various objects, mostly weapons. Each is 
a symbol. The Moon’s sign Cancer starts with Punarvasu; it is the first Nakshatra or constel- 
lation in the sign of Cancer. It has a bow as one of its symbols. The next Nakshatra in Cancer 
is Pushya which has an arrow. Together they can hit the target. A bow represents potential. A 
quiet mind is like a fully drawn bow. 


3.0 ) a fal ao babel 
om kundapuspojjvalakaraya namah 
79. Whose form (Akdara) is shining (Ujjvala) with Jasmine (Kunda) flowers (Puspa) or it shines 


like them. 


This is the preferred type of flower for the worship of the Moon. Naturally they are white 
and release their auspicious and romantic fragrance at night. 


So FUTSHACAT AA: 


om nayanabjasamudbhavaya namah 


80. Born (Samudbhava) of the lotus eyed (Nayanabja). 


The source of the mind is said to be the lotus-eyed One, which indicates the divinity or 
the ever awakened consciousness. Even in the unawakened, the mind is there but there is no 
awareness of the source of the mind. When its source is realized, then the divinity from which 
it springs comes to be known. 


Those with a strong Moon associated with the first or second houses in the Vedic chart 
may have beautiful eyes. 


Xo AAMAS AA: 


om atreyagotrajaya namah 


81. Belonging to the family lineage (Gotra) of Sage Atri. 


Atri is especially associated with medicine. As Mercury was born of the Moon, he is 
also of this family or Gotra. Thus the Moon and Mercury indicate physicians. Almost everyone 
of Indian origin knows their Gotra or lineage. Each Gotra is named after a seer who is said to 
be the progenitor of that lineage. If one does not know your Gotra, then there is a method to 


choose it from the chart. For this and other uses, each of the planets has a Gotra. 


Xo IAN AqA AH: 


om atyantavinayaya namah 


82. Extremely polite. 


Vinaya is decorum, courtesy, good manners, reverence, modesty, humility and sense 
of propriety. Atyanta means the ultimate development or extent of these qualities. A strong 
and unafflicted Moon or a chart ruled by a good Moon (Cancer rising) or having the Moon in 
the first house (personality) or tenth house (public persona) or as the AtmaKaraka® can be like 
this. These qualities are expected of people in very high positions in society and the Moon 
represents such people. 


Xo THaCTaaATy AH: 


om priyadayakaya namah 


83. Beloved (Priya). Giving (Dayaka) the feeling of fondness. 


The Moon is the mother. Except where the Moon has some great affliction, she is the 
dearest one for us. Further, lunar influence makes one feel fondness or attachment for those 
things associated with the position of the Moon in the Vedic chart. Those with the Moon in the 
first house, the place representing the self, can give and receive great love. This is the case 


for the great Avataras, Shri Rama and Shri Krishna. 


30 HOUR AH: 


om karunarasasampurnaya namah 


84. Overflowing (Sampdrna) with the essence or milk of compassion (Karuna Rasa). 


The expression ‘the milk of compassion’ comes from the love embodied in breastfeed- 
ing. The connection with the Moon as mother is very clear. Lunar people are very sensitive 
and capable of deep love and kindness. They want to save all beings which is the natural ten- 


dency of motherhood. 


0 HHeUNa AG: 


om karkataprabhave namah 


85. The ruler (Prabhu) of the sign of Cancer, the crab (Karkafa). 


This sign has the Bhava or mood of the Moon. There is a type of crab that has the 
greatest power of grip per unit area in the natural kingdom. It is simple to equate this to the 


5th 


human mind. Counting from zero degrees Aries, this name (i.e. the 85"' Navamsha) falls near 


the middle of Capricorn, the tenth sign, where the mind pursues its status and power. Capri- 


corn is literally opposite to Cancer. 


Xo HoAaTy AH: 
om avyayaya namah 


86. Imperishable (Avyaya). 


Even though the Moon waxes and wanes, motherhood and all the Moon represents will 
always be there. The Moon sheds the nectar that brings immortality of consciousness and ex- 
tends the life of the body. 


30 AQMTAATRSTS AH: 


om caturasrasanarudhaya namah 


87. Stationed (Artidha) on a four-cornered seat (Caturashra Asana). 


A square or rectangle can be used to indicate the Moon in Chakras drawn for Puja or 
worship. It emphasizes the connection with the number four. Cancer is the fourth sign and the 


fourth house represents mother and has the Moon for its Karaka or significator. 


Chaturashra also indicates the fourth and eighth houses in the chart. These are the 
places of refuge. For protection, one has to strengthen the fourth and keep the eighth as 


clean as possible because it is the place of our own faults, including all the accumulation 


of sins of the past. Astrology is especially associated with the eighth house and that is why 
some people are frightened of astrology. 


The eighth house purpose of astrology is to see the punishment coming and to 
understand what voluntary payment can be made before the demand arrives. Priests are seen 
in the ninth house and they can fall due to the eighth because it is the twelfth from the ninth 
and therefore the place of loss for them. This may be why some religious leaders frown on as- 
trology, while often consulting astrologers in private. 


xo AUT AA: 


om caturaya namah 


88. Charming, clever and ingenious (Chatura). 


Chatura is also swift, like the Moon relative to the other celestial objects. The mind also 
moves quickly. Chatur is the number four. The Moon rules the fourth sign. It is the first of the 
Moksha or liberation signs. In the Yogic literature, the fourth indicates the state of conscious- 
ness beyond waking, dreaming and sleeping. It is beyond change (Moon 86). The mind is not 
active in that state but it is known as consciousness persists. 


xo fesqareara AH: 


om divyavahanaya namah 


89. Having a divine (Divya) vehicle (Vahana). 


The pure mind rides on pure Being, which is pure divinity. 


xo TaaAtCa-qUSa AAS AA: 


om vivasvanmandalajneyavasaya namah 


90. Hiding the Sun’s orb (Vivasvan Mandala). 


Moon 62 describes the lunar eclipse. This name explains the solar eclipse. Literally, 
it says that the Sun’s orb becomes unknowable (Ajfieya) due to the position (Vasa) of the 
Moon. This also explains how the Self is hidden by the mind. Seeing only the products of 
the mind, thoughts and feelings, we miss the One who is the witness of them all. The great 
sage, Ramana Maharishi, advised self-enquiry. This can start with the question “Who am I?” 


or “Where does this ‘l’ come from?” Here ‘I’ is the sense of individuality that associates with 
our mental experiences. With constant attention to the I-sense, it eventually subsides, lead- 
ing to Self-realization. 


30 TTA AA: 
om vasusamrddhidaya namah 


91. Giving (Da) abundant and increasing (Samrdchi) wealth (Vasu). 


A strong Moon can make you part of the elite. Alternatively, it can make you truly wise 
if the Moon’s combinations in the Vedic chart are favourable for this. The elite have access to 
material wealth; the wise have more internal resources. 


Xo He AUTOM AU: 


om mahesvarapriyaya namah 


92. Beloved (Priya) of Lord Shiva, the great Lord (Maheshvara). 


The spouse of Shiva is Parvati and She has many names and forms. The Moon with 
Saturn, Rahu or Ketu indicates the names Kali, Durga or Chandika. She is pure Mother but 
her nature is to destroy the ignorance. Therefore, She may appear terrific. In whatever form or 
mood, She is most beloved of Shiva. 


If a person’s chosen deity is shown by the Moon, there will be a preference for the 
feminine, the Divine Mother, in whatever way She is seen in the person's religion. For the 
Hindu, this can mean a form of the Goddess associated with Lord Vishnu or Lord Shiva. This 
name refers to the Moon as the wife of Shiva. If the Moon is associated with Mercury, which 
indicates Vishnu, then the Goddess can be Lakshmi. Mercury can also indicate Tripura or 
Saraswati. 


Ko CI-ATa AH: 
om dantaya namah 


93. The giver or the mild one. 


Danta can indicate one who is restrained or has their senses under control. Such 
people are mild in manner and generous in spirit. The Moon represents donors as well as the 


liberal minded. Caring for others and the environment is natural and without this society tends 


towards collapse. That is why the Moon represents society. 


| once was living with a German friend. Both of us were close friends with our neighbor, 
Jane. My friend was a very sweet person but he had some issues relating to the Second 
World War. One day he made a remark that was rather anti-Semitic. | said, “Do you mean 
Jane?” She was Jewish. He understood and | never heard any such remarks from him again. 
Friendship binds communities together and splitting into groups weakens them. People are 
naturally friendly but religious and political leaders often see that exaggerating differences 
and thereby splitting communities boosts their personal power. So it happens again and 


again. 


The astrological chart presents archetypes in Cancer and Capricorn that embody 
these perpetual problems. Capricorn is the sign of big business and the search for power in 
general. Capricorn has a great capacity for good and large companies support vast numbers 
of people. It all depends on the balance between collecting and sharing. An economy works 
if the resources are fully recycled. The present huge economic strains that are threatening our 
world appear to result from the failure to recycle. Resources are flowing from the many at the 
bottom of the pyramid and collecting at the top, with insufficient being distributed in wages, 
benefits and social programs. 


The world’s wealthiest man had the great inspiration to encourage the billionaires of 
the world to recycle their wealth and he deserves great credit for this. One notes, however, 
that his personal wealth keeps increasing. No doubt it is not for any lack of good intention, 
rather it is very hard for a person to spend such mountains of money. In the USA and 
elsewhere, there is constant pressure on the government to reduce taxes for the wealthy. 
As a result, they tend to go down. This exacerbates the problems that threaten the social 
structure and thus the welfare of the wealthy. It would be much better if the wealthy choose 
to pay more and used their lobbying power to see that it was spent efficiently on such things 
as infrastructure, education and health care that directly benefit everybody. This would boost 
the economy making it most unlikely that the extra taxes they pay would actually reduce their 


own abundance. In other words, social responsibility has benefits in every direction. 
xo Homaucraurs Aa: 
om merugotrapradaksinaya namah 


94. Circumambulating Mount Meru. 


This name contains the idea that the Moon is never retrograde as Pradakshina means 


keeping that which you are circulating always to one’s right. Meru is the mythical mountain 
at the North pole. Gotra can mean the earth so this name means the Moon is orbiting the 
earth. It also suggests that the movement of the Moon is naturally sacred as Pradakshina is a 
motion made out of giving respect or devotion. Meru is associated Tantrically with the spine. 
The earth indicates the Muladhara Chakra at the base of the spine so the name indicates the 
direction that the energy circulates there. Consciousness rotating in that place can help to 


awaken the power of the Goddess. 


0 TEHUSAHeACUTY FG: 


om grahamandalamadhyasthaya namah 


95. Standing (Stha) in the middle (Madhya) of the Mandala of the Grahas. 


A Mandala is a sacred diagram. In the diagram in which all the nine planets are placed, 
the Moon should be in the middle. In fact, she is normally placed in the top right. Therefore, 
the Mandala indicated here is another one where the luminaries are in the centre and are 
surrounded by the other Grahas. This is the reality of life because the sense of self, the Sun, 
and the mind, the Moon, are at the centre of our experience surrounded by the other parts of 
life indicated by the other planets. Similarly, the mother with the father is at the centre of the 
family. 


0 Taha AH: 


om grasitarkaya namah 


96. Absorbing (Gras/) logic or desire (Tarka). 


The mind enables and sustains both reason and desire. Tarka is both along with phi- 


losophy and speculation, doubt and logic. 


xo Tener AA: 


om grahadhipaya namah 


97. Foremost (Adhipa) amongst the planets (Graha). 


The Moon indicates rulers such as kings or queens. The Moon also plays a pivotal role 


in the study of the Vedic chart because it shows our experience of the world. 


Ko TESST AA: 


om dvijarajaya namah 


98. Like a king (Raja) amongst the twice-born. 


Dvija usually refers to the learned or priestly people but it can also mean the warrior 


and business classes. In any establishment class, the Moon can indicate a leading person. 


30 Oterprsd A: 


om dyutilakaya namah 


99. Having a majestic (Dyuti) forehead (Laka). 


This can be a mark of those with a strong Moon in the first house. It also means 


lustrous, perhaps indicating that the inner vision is awake. 


0 ge AF: 


om dvibhujaya namah 


100. Two armed (Dwi Bhuja). 


The Grahas are depicted with two or four arms. Here it is said that the Moon has two 
arms but sometime he is portrayed as four-armed. Traditionally, one hand gives boons while 
another grants freedom from fear. If there are only two arms, then there is no hand to carry 


weapons. Thus, the two-armed form is very benign. 


30 Tosighstart AF: 


om dvijapujitaya namah 


101. Worshipped (Pujita) by the twice-born. 


The Dwija are said to be twice-born because they are reborn through initiation into the 
Vedic studies. This is not just starting school; rather it implies an inner awakening. The study 
of the Vedas provides the understanding of the unfolding experiences within consciousness. 


In the modern context, Dwija refers to every sincere seeker. We honour the Moon by respect- 


ing the divine creative principle, by respecting every part of its creation to the best of our 
ability and by seeking to have a clean and pure heart and mind. 


xo sTerataTaa AA: 


om audumbaranagavasaya namah 


102. Living on mountains covered in Audumbara trees. 


Nagavasa can mean living in a tree or on a mountain. The Audumbara trees are found 
on mountains in South India and often in the areas of sacred places like temples. The Moon 
is the Goddess and her temples are generally found at the top of hills and mountains. Even 
where there is a Devi temple in a valley, there is likely a sister or root temple at the top of a 
neighbouring hill. Nearby, you often find an Audumbara tree. When visiting Italy, | noticed that 
many larger hills had shrines to the Mother near the top. This name gives us a clue to this spe- 
cial connection with mountains or the sacredness of this particular tree. 


So Say AA: 
om udaraya namah 


103. Generous. Also noble, illustrious, honest, sincere, upright (Udara). 


xo Uemnaats Az: 


om rohinipataye namah 


104. The ruler (Pati) of Rohini Nakshatra. 


Rohint is ruled over by the divine progenitor Prajapati and as such represents great 
fertility. It is the first Nakshatra after the Moon reaches its zenith of purity, its exaltation point, 
at three degrees of Taurus. At that point, the mind, free of confusion, can start to function 
and do its best creative work. This occurs in the Nakshatra Krittika. Krittika and the previous 
Nakshatra Bharani are best suited for inner contemplation to prepare the purity of mind. Once 
it is achieved, then all creativity can arise. (See also Moon 20.) 


xo Taratcara Aa: 


om nityodayaya namah 


105. Giving endless results (Nitya Udaya). Ever prospering. Eternally rising. 


Proper worship as touched on above (Moon 101) has more than a momentary result. 
A quieter, gentler state of awareness is endlessly giving its sweetness. In the chart, a strong, 
well placed and associated Moon can indicate ongoing prosperity. 


30 YEG AH: 


om munistutyaya namah 


106. Worshipped (Stutya) by the wise. 


The word Muni suggests one who has a profound inner quietness free of the notions of 
‘’, ‘me’ and ‘mine’. 


Xe ACU -awaqyala AH: 
om nityanandaphalapradaya namah 


107. Giving (Prada) the fruit (Phala) of eternal bliss (Nitya Ananda). 


The Sun gives eternal bliss (Sun 108). The Moon gives its fruit. 


30 UAASIGAHUT AH: 


om sakalahladanakaraya namah 


108. Causing (Kara) complete happiness (Sakala Ahladana). Entirely lovely. 


This name secretly suggests the rare Tantric mantras of the Shri Vidya. The Shri Vidya 
is a very high form of the worship of the Goddess. It is intimately associated with the lunar 
days. There is an important associated text (the Trishat/) of 300 names of the Divine Mother, 
20 for each of the tithis or lunar days of each fortnight. Each of the 20 starts with a letter of 
the mantra. 


Sakala is part of the mantra and also indicates the full Moon which is the time when the 
Moon is having all its digits (Moon 28). This is associated with the putative sixteenth syllable 
of the Shri Vidya mantra. The sixteenth is the indicator of the absolute aspect, that which is 
beyond the activity of the mind, beyond the rising and falling. This state is celebrated in al- 
most all these names of the Moon. 


As in all the sets of names, the 108" mantra of the Moon has a special glory. The 108¢" 
is connected to the last of the 108 Navamshas in the zodiac and naturally represents a com- 


pleteness of knowledge and realization. 


Xo UTM EA ATs AH: 


om palasedhmapriyaya namah 


109. Fond of twigs of the Palasha plant. 


The twigs are used as fuel in the fire offerings to the Moon. This 109" mantra may be 
a later addition to specify the fuel. In the mantra lists, only the Moon and Rahu have 109 and 


the last mantra of both falls far short of the glory of the 108", 


Om tat sat 


OoOWAOAON DA FPF Wn = 


OwWwwWwWdwowonN nN NDNNNDNNNN A 23s Ht senor sts st 3s 2H 3 
HF WMH H|-$ OO DAN OTF WNDM H TO DAN OH FW NM + © 


THE MANTRAS OF CHANDRA IN TRANSLITERATION 


. om Srimate namah 

. om Sasadharaya namah 

. om candraya namah 

. om taradhisaya namah 

. om nisakaraya namah 

. om sudhanidhaye namah 
.om sadaradhyaya namah 

. om satpataye namah 

.om sadhupijitaya namah 

. om jitendriyaya namah 

. om jayodyogaya namah 

. om jyotisScakrapravartakaya namah 
. om vikartananujaya namah 
.om viraya namah 

. om viSvesaya namah 

. om vidusampataye namah 

. om dosakaraya namah 

. om dustaduraya namah 

. OM pustimate namah 

. om Sistapalakaya namah 

. om astamurtipriyaya namah 
.om anantaya namah 

.om kastadarukutharakaya namah 
. om svaprakasaya namah 

. om prakasatmane namah 

. om dyucaraya namah 

. om devabhojanaya namah 

. om kaladharaya namah 

. om kalahetave namah 

. om kamakrte namah 

. om kamadayakaya namah 

. om mrtyusamharakaya namah 
. om amartyaya namah 

. om nityanusthanadayakaya namah 
. om ksapakaraya namah 


36. 
37. 
38. 
39. 
40. 


41 


69 


om ksinapapaya namah 

om ksayavrddhisamanvitaya namah 
om jaivatrkaya namah 

om Sucaye namah 

om Subhraya namah 


. om jayine namah 
42. 
43. 
44. 
45. 
46. 
47. 
48. 
49. 
50. 
51. 
52. 
83: 
54. 
55. 
56. 
57. 
58. 
59. 
60. 
61. 
62. 
63. 
64. 
65. 
66. 
67. 
68. 


om jayaphalapradaya namah 

om sudhamayaya namah 

om surasvamine namah 

om bhaktanamistadayakaya namah 
om bhuktidaya namah 

om muktidaya namah 

om bhadraya namah 

om bhaktadaridryabhafjanaya namah 
om samaganapriyaya namah 

om sarvaraksakaya namah 

om sargarodbhavaya namah 

om bhayantakrte namah 

om bhaktigamyaya namah 

om bhavabandhavimocakaya namah 
om jagatprakasakiranaya namah 
om jagadanandakaranaya namah 
om nihsapatnaya namah 

om niraharaya namah 

om nirvikaraya namah 

om niramayaya namah 

om bhuicchaya'cchaditaya namah 
om bhavyaya namah 

om bhuvanapratipalakaya namah 
om sakalartiharaya namah 

om saumyajanakaya namah 

om sadhuvanditaya namah 

om sarvagamajnhaya namah 


. om sarvajnaya namah 
70. 
71. 
72. 
73. 


om sanakadimunistutyaya namah 
om sitacchatradhvajopetaya namah 
om sitangaya namah 

om sitabhusanaya namah 


74. 
75. 
76. 
77. 
78. 
79. 
80. 
81. 
82. 
83. 
84. 
85. 
86. 
87. 
88. 
89. 
90. 
a1. 
92. 
93. 
94. 
95. 
96. 
97. 
98. 
99. 
100. 
101. 
102. 
103. 
104. 
105. 
106. 
107. 
108. 
109. 


om svetamalyambaradharaya namah 
om Svetagandhanulepanaya namah 
om dasasvarathasamridhaya namah 
om dandapanaye namah 

om dhanurdharaya namah 

om kundapuspojjvalakaraya namah 
om nayanabjasamudbhavaya namah 
om atreyagotrajaya namah 

om atyantavinayaya namah 

om priyadayakaya namah 

om karunarasasampurmmaya namah 
om karkataprabhave namah 

om avyayaya namah 

om caturasrasanarudhaya namah 
om caturaya namah 

om divyavahanaya namah 

om vivasvanmandalajheyavasaya namah 
om vasusamrddhidaya namah 

om mahesvarapriyaya namah 

om dantaya namah 

om merugotrapradaksinaya namah 
om grahamandalamadhyasthaya namah 
om grasitarkaya namah 

om grahadhipaya namah 

om dvijarajaya namah 

om dyutilakaya namah 

om dvibhujaya namah 

om dvijapujitaya namah 

om audumbaranagavasaya namah 
om udaraya namah 

om rohinipataye namah 

om nityodayaya namah 

om munistutyaya namah 

om nityanandaphalapradaya namah 
om sakalahladanakaraya namah 

om palasedhmapriyaya namah 


SOURCES AND ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS 


While these lists are well Known to traditional astrologers in India, | only found two 
places where they had been printed. | am thus indebted to Dr Mrs Saraswathy and Prof. B. A. 
Eeswaran for publishing a Sanskrit text of the names of the Grahas in their book 
NavaGrahas, albeit without translation and source, and Prof. S.K. Ramachandra Rao for his 
outstanding compendium The NavaGraha Kosha, which includes another set. Prof. Rao 
informed me that his work was based on a medieval text. Regretfully Prof. Rao has passed 
away. These two sources have some differences. Where | felt that both versions of a name 
had merit, | included both under the same number. 


| am most grateful to Pandit UmaShankar Jois, priest of the Mukambika temple, Kollur, 
Karnataka, India, for his help in the early stages of this work. Regretfully, he has now passed 
away. Many other pundits gave me their learned opinion on particular names and | thank them 
all. My Jyotish Guru, Pandit Sanjay Rath, has been a great inspiration. 


Two great artists have kindly allowed me to showcase their beautiful work. Pieter 
Weltevrede, acclaimed Dutch master painter, did all the colour work. The drawings were 
done by the highly talented Jane Adams. Find out more about them in the Section ‘The 
Artists’. 


Many people helped me with editing and proofreading and | thank them all. Especially, 
| want to thank my wife Susie for her considerable assistance and all my family for their love 
and support. 


ABOUT THE AUTHOR 


Andrew Foss has a PhD in Computing Science from the University of Alberta and is 
also an Oxford University Physics graduate with publications in Nature and other leading sci- 
entific journals. He is the author of the book High-Dimensional Data Mining. He enjoys a deep 
love of music, art and poetry and has more than 30 years experience studying and teaching 
the Vedic wisdom around the world. He is the Founding President of the British Association of 
Vedic Astrology, Editor of the BAVA Journal Gochara and is a Certified Jaimini Scholar and 
Jyotish Pandit, the highest professional certifications in Vedic Astrology involving nine years 
of continuous study. He has developed the unique, easy and powerful software Shri Jyoti 
Star that has become the first choice amongst the leading Vedic Astrologers around the 
world. Andrew is married and lives with his family in Virginia, USA. 


SECRETS OF VIMSHOTTARI DASHA 


As a bonus | have decided to publish some unique secrets about Vedic Astrology in 
the printed version of this book, which will also have the mantras of all nine planets. Please 
visit YogaOfThePlanets.com for more information. 


For 33 years, |, like everyone else who studies Jyotisha, wondered about the origin of 
the lengths of the Vimshottari Dashas. | could never find a way into this mystery. Nowhere in 
the literature, ancient or modern, can even a satisfactory hint be found. Then, on July 7, 2015, 
| saw on the web at least a partial derivation of the sequence of lords. It relied on knowing the 
Dasha cycle lengths. At the end, the author appealed for someone to find a solution to the 
problem of deriving the length of the cycles. The thought came, ‘let’s give it a shot’. 


| pulled out a fresh sheet of paper and started writing down equations that might help. 
Bit by bit the key principles unfolded themselves. It did not take long to realize that | had an 
answer and it just required some polishing. In the process, some wonderful insights 
appeared as well as a profound advance in the understanding of the Tara Bala, which is most 
important for interpreting the Dasha. | have not found this written anywhere. Therefore, both 
these re-markable and interesting secrets were given to me and | am sharing them with you. 


Notes 


Yoga Philosophy of Patafijali. Trans. PN. Mukerji, Univ. Of Calcutta, 1977. 


Each Nakshatra or lunar mansion has a planetary ruler used in astrological calculations as well as a Vedic deity. 


The Atmakaraka is the soul planet. It is the Graha that has advanced furthest in its zodiacal sign. Rahu is 
naturally retrograde, so it is an exception being measured from the end of the sign. Ketu is not considered as it 
represents the freedom of the soul, not its embodiment. 


