ANGA VIDYA 


INSTANT ASTROLOGICAL FORECAST 
BY SAGE VARAHAMIHIRA 


TRANSCREATORS 
Dr. K.N. SARASWATHY 
and 
Prof. BARDHANAREESWARAR 


DEDICATED TO MY FATHER 


| am beholden to my father, mentor, guide and 
Guru, Revered PANDIT KADALANGUDI NATESA 
SASTRI for having initiated me into this realm of 
Astrology. It may not be out of place if 1 say that 
Astrology bequeathed to me by him is my avocation and 
I pursue it to perpetutate his memory. 


He was noted for his profound scholarship. He 
was one of those who ushered in the cultural 
Renaissance of India. He had pioneered to publish many 
of the important and rare works in Sanskrit, with Tamil 
translations and scholarly commentaries. It is gratifying 
that his books on Astrology have been used and 
continue to be used wherever Tamil is known as the 
basic reference books by those who have anything to do 
with or are interested in Astrology. 


He utilized his erudition in Sanskrit and his rich 
practical experience in Predictive Astrology to discover 
the proper methods of prognostication propounded by 
several authors like Paraasara, Varaahamihira, 
Yavanaachaarya, Gargaachaarya, Kavi Kaalidaasa, 
Kalyaanavarma (author of Saaraavali), Bhattotpala, 
Sripati, Venkatesa (author of Sarvaartha Chintaamaani), 
Mahaadeva (author of Jaataka Tatwa), Mantreswara 
(author of Phaladeepikaa), etc. May ! on this occasion 
offer my humble and devout homage to _ this 
Guruparampara (succession of Gurus)? 


May | dedicate this book series to my 
father-cum-Guru in all humility? 


K.N. SARASWATHY 


(AACHAARYA KADALANGUDI ) 


"Cowards die many times before their deaths; 
The valiant never taste of death but once." 


How true these words of Shakespeare in the 
mouth of Julius Caeser were in the case of Revered 
Pandit Brahmasri Kadalangudi Natesa Sastri. Here was a 
valiant man who braved poverty, braved the ridicule of 
the atheists; braved the obstruction of the orthodox, and 
the prejudice against Sanskrit, and with unique and 
single minded devotion rendered a signal service in the 
spread of the supreme Bhaaratiya wisdom. 


Revered Pandit Kadalangudi Natesa Sastri, whose 
birth centenary was celebrated in 1978, had a great 
share in the religious and cultural Renaissance since his 
main work was in bringing the valuable treasures 
enbedded in the ancient literature to the attention of the 
general public and making them available in a language 
understood by the layman. It is an evidence of the 
broad culture and a significant sign of the changing 
times that he put before one and all without distinction 
of caste or community of religion, Vedic Madras such as 
the Taitreeya Aaranyakam. He had dedicated his life to 
this noble cause by translating the almost entire religious 
classics into Tamil and publishing more than 50 books 
along with the original texts in Devanaagari script. 


BIRTH AND EDUCATION: 


Born on 5th October 1878 of. the couple Rama 
Sastri and Meenaakshi Ammaal at Kadalangudi Village 


6—___________( AACHAARYA KADALANGUDI) 
near Kumbakonam in Tanjaavur District in Tamil Nadu 
(India), he learnt Kaavyas, Naatakas, Alankaaras, 
Vyaakarana, Vedaanta, Astrology and Mantra Saastras. 
His Guru Bhakti was such that in very publication of his 
he got it printed that the rendering was by 
Mahaamahopaadhyaaya Vedaantakesari Brahmaastri 
Paingaanaadu Ganapati Sastri's disciple Pandit 
Kadalangudi Natesa Sastri. 


ROLE OF EDUCATOR: 


In 1908 he started giving discourses at Tirunelveli 
on Advaita Vedaanta. From 1914 to 1916 he gave 
Vedaanta lessons in Travancore Samasthaanam. During 
the period he specialized in the study of and discussion 
on Bhaagavatam and Hindu Astrology. He was 
honoured by the Mahaaraajah of Travancore. On 25th 
July 1910 he was honoured by the Mahaaraja of 
Mysore. While introducing him to the Mahaaraajah, 
Dewaan V.P. Madhava Row remarked: 


"Though young he is a man of exceptionally 

brilliant parts and wonderful grasp of the principles 

of the Vedaanta. | derived much benefit from his 

discourses. What | consider to be a special merit 

in the young man is his spirit of tolerance." 

The Sankaraachaaryaa of Kaanchipuram and 
Sringari Mutts also had conferred titles on him. 


THE TIMES IN WHICH HE EMERGED: 


As the beginning of the century Hindu orthodoxy 
was, to Shelley's words about Catholicism, "only 


AACHAARYA KADALANGUDI 7 


adoration, faith, submission, blind admiration, not a rule 
for moral conduct"; and Hindu Dharma was "a passion, 
a persuasion, an excuse, refuge, never a check 
according to the temper of the mind which it inhabited." 
The stalwards of the Hindu fold were unwilling to deal in 
a sympathetic spirit with the growing desire of those 
educated in English schools and colleges to get at the 
rationable of Hindu custom and usages; and in fact, they 
refused to encourage any such quest. 


These led to the depforable result of alienating the 
English-educated Hindu altogether from that interest in 
ancient Indian knowledge which one would gladly have 
seen in their mental equipment and from the observance 
of those rites and ceremonials which from the 
indispensable discipline making for purity of thought and 
body, necessary for any spiritual development. Their 
example easily began to spread this lack of interest 
eVen among non-English educated men; for the former 
were taken to be the repositories of modern wisdom 
whom it would be unfashionable not to follow. But, 
fortunately, the tide has turned. 


National leaders like Swami Vivekananda, Tilak, 
Aurobindo and Mahatma Gandhi highlighted the salient 
points of India's hoary civilization and glorious culture 
inspired by the spiritual insight of her sages, and showed 
how a departure from which had resulted in her slavery 
to foreign domination. At such a time emerged on the 
scene the great Kadalangudi. 


~( AACHAARYA KADALANGUD)) 
JOURNALIST PAR EXCELLENCE: 


Pandit Kadalangudi Natesa Sastri settled down in 
Madras on 27th November 1917. Without much capital 
on hand he set up his own press and launched his 
monthly journal AARYAMATA SAMVARDHANEE, which 
met a long-felt need of the public. He popularized 
through his journal the rare ancient religious classics 
through the medium of reliable Tamil translation and 
propagated a knowledge of the significance of Hindu 
rituals, method of worship etc. 


GRAND PUBLICATIONS: 


The period 1923 to 1928 saw the publication of 9 
Vedic books. 6 Upanishads. 4 Vols of Brahmasuutra 
Sankara Bhaashyam, 7 Vols. of Srimad Bhaagavatam, 
12 Astrology books and more than 12 Stotra books. 
Each book carried a scholarly perface as lengthy as 
Bernard Shaw's detailed contents and an Index of Slokas 
to be of help to the users of the book; the Rt. Hon'ble 
Srinivasa Sastri echoed the thought of the otehr readers 
when he said Kadalangudi's footnotes were imaginative 
and considerate of the reader's difficulty. 


The value of each book was enhanced by the 
author's collateral references which bring together all 
the learning on the subject and critical commentary 
at once admirable and most helpful. In the astrology 
books judgement based on the author's experience is 
also given wherever there are conflicting schools of 
thought. The meaning of the text is clearly and 


AACHAARYA KADALANGUDI 9 


succinctly explained; the exposition is complete and 
authoritative. 

No wonder his books are used for research 
guidance. His astrology books continue to be used as 
basic reference books by Tamil-knowing people all over 
the world. 


THE GREATNESS OF KADALANGUDI's 
TRANSLATION 


Only those who are engaged in translation work 
can realize how arduous the work is; while the difficulty 
of communicating the ideas in one language through the 
medium of another is always difficult, it is still more 
difficult to translate a valuable abstruse work from 
Sanskrit into Tamil. Thiru Vi. Ka. opines thus:- 


"Many will flinch from even undertaking the 
translation of such abstract and scholarly treatises. But 
this is what the learned Kadalangudi Sastriji has dared 
to do in a spirit of dedication and service, regardless of 
praise or blame. And it is wonderful how well he has 
done this superhuman task. Our mind does not permit 
us to state that Aachaarya Kadalangudi Natesa Sastriji is 
working at the translation purely from the standpoint of 
learning. But we can confidently affirm that he is 
labouring also from the standpoint of love that 
transcends all knowledge." 

This swelling flood of translation flows from a 
source full of knowledge and love an it is the bounden 
duty of every Tamilian to drink it.. South India was all 


10 AACHAARYA KADALANGUDI 


the poorer for want of accurate translation of the great 
classics. But this want has now been supplied and the 
ideas in the classics, made accessible to the Tamil 
public by the Tamil translation so nobly undertaken by 
Aachaarya Kadalangudi Natesa Sastri, that veteran 
scholar. We in the South owe him a deep dept of 
gratitude for this labour of love." 


What is not widely known is that he was a great 
poet; he had left behind him a large number of Sanskrit 
verses which constituted his diary. 


Around 1940 Kulapati K.M. Munshi invited him to 
become Principal of Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan Sanskrit 
College in Bombay, Kadalangudi declined it with thanks 
since he wanted to be self-employed and enjoy the 
accruing freedom to pursue his studies. 


RAJAJI's TRIBUTE: 


While speaking at Kadalangudi's ‘Sataabhishekam’ 
function (completion of 81 years 4 months of age 
equivalent to 100 lunar years) at Siva-Vishnu Temple in 
Madras on October 11, 1958 Rajaji (who was of the 
same age) expressed as follows: 


"The public need not bother to arrange another 
grand celebration of my ‘Sataabhishekam'. | deem 
it to have been celebrated along with this function 
in honour of the veteran scholar Revered Pandit 
Kadalangudi Natesa Sastri." 


Such was the mutual admiration and affection 
between the two intellectual giants. 


(Be NS. tt 
HIS END 


The Revered Pandit who laid the Indian public 
under deep obligation to him by publishing and 
propagating ancient works and making the most valuable 
contribution to the study of Advaita Vedaanta, Srimad 
Bhaagavatam, and Hindu Astrology attained immortality 
at the holiest of holy moments: at 11-30 p.m. on 
Mahaasivaraatri in 1961 (on Feb 14, 1961 at the 
Lingaavirbhava Lagna). 


HIS_MISSION 


Both in the several books and in his numerous 
lectures he had stood for the consolidation based on the 
vedas of the Hindu Dharma by ensuring social unity 
along with individual purity. He had been and continues 
to be a source of inspiration to many of his disciples 
who have profited by learning the gems hidden in the 
ancient classics, both philosophical and didactic, and 
which have a direct bearing on the practical conduct of 
everyday. 


Dr. K.N. Saraswathy his Daughter and Disciple 


He had no sons and therefore he chose to give 
intensive training in the practice of Astrology to his 
youngest daughter K.N. Saraswathy, and training in 
exposition of epics and Naaraayaneeyam to his eldest 
son-in-law Anantaraama Deekshitar. 


The great Pandit had no patience or time to lose 
with indifferent disciples or those without intuition, as far 
as astrology was concerned. Astrological study required 


12—________________(_ NOTE ON THE PUBLISHER ) 


more intense concentration, capacity for application and 
intuition. So the only desciple who completed the course 
and internship in astrology under Kadalangudi was K.N. 
Saraswathy. Even after the course he was happy to 
have her as apprentice and collaborator in republishing 
the astrology books. 


(_ NOTE ON THE PUBLISHER) 


We are highly appreciative of the expeditious and 
efficient service done by the enthusiastic publisher Mr. 
MA. Jaishankar. He is grandson of Rev. Pt. Kadalangudi 
Natesa Sastri. He is an Economics graduate with a 
Masterate in Business Management. He manages 
distribution of books brought out by Kadalangudi 
Publications, the Kadalangudi Astrological (Indological) 
Research Centre (Regd. Charitable Trust), which runs 
basic correspondence courses on Hindu Astrology in 
English and Tamil. Kadalangudi Art Centre teaches 
commercial art through correspondence in English and 
Tamil. He has enthusiastically organized and been 
conducting the correspondence courses on Hindu 
Astrology and Art. 


He has been bringing out with great interest and 
devotion the revised edition of the earlier titles of the 
Kadalangudi Centenary Book Series, each time in a 
better get-up. He is mightily Interested in culture, and 
modernization not detrimental to but supporting culture, 
and in Oriental Studies. 

Kadalangudi Astrological (indological) 
Research Centre (Advisory Committee) 


CONTENTS 


DEDICATION 
Aachaarya Kadalangudi 
Brief note on Dr. K.N.S. 
Note on the Publisher 
PREFACE 


Salutation to the Planets 


Utility of the Vidyaa 

Effects of the enquirer's place 
Inauspicious sites 

Directions and time 


Masculine, feminine and eunuch parts 
of the body 


Effects of touching individual parts 
Touching the chest 


Preoccupation about land and 
servant-maid 


Preoccupation about cloth 
Things in front of the enquirer 


Things in the enquirer's hand 


14 -(ANGA VIDYAA ) 


18 Family's prosperity and friends’ 


destruction 46 
19 Money, ornaments, sandal pastes, 
wool and silk 46 
20 Seeing a mendicant / ascetic 47 
21 Seeing a monk / astrologist / merchant 47 
22 Seeing a drunkard / beggar 47 
23 Joint family 48 
24-26 About thieves 48 | 
27-28 Recovering the missing article 52 
28% About sick persons 53 
29-34 About food items 54 
35 About abortion 56 
36 Delivery and sex of the baby 57 
37 Child birth 57 
38 Abortion 58 
39 The time of conception 58 
40-41 The number of children 59 
42-43 The star of child-delivery 61 
44 Conclusion 62 
GLOSSARY 64 


TOTAL PAGES 64 


(PREFACE ) 


Astronomos' was the Greek title given to 
the Initiate at the seventh stage of the 
reception of the Mysteries. In days of old 
Astronomy was the synonym for Astrology. 


It would be worthwhile to be familiar 
with the three fundamental propositions which 
the Ancients had with regard to Astrology. 
First, there is an inter-relationship between 
the Sun, the planets, the stars and man. The 
second is that, though there seems to be a 
predestination in the history of races and 
nations, this is closely connected with what is 
called Karma. The third is that the great 
picture-gallery of eternity—or in Hindu 
mythology, Chitragupta's account-book—holds 
a faithful record of every act, and even 
thought of man, of all that was, is, or ever will 
be in the phenomenal universe. The destiny of 
every man, woman and child is already traced 
in that tablet of the unseen universe, which 
the mystic gaze of the astrologist can 
penetrate — not fatalistically — but only 
because the future, like the past, is ever alive 
in the present. The key to the value of a 


16—__________________(ANGA VIDYAA ) 
knowledge of astrology is the law of Karma 
and its twin doctrine of Reincarnation. For 
nothing is lost in the world of causes. Even 
wasted smoke remains not traceless. As the 
Book of Golden Precepts affirms: 


"Learn that no efforts, not the smallest — 
whether in the right or wrong 
direction—can vanish from the world of 
causes. A harsh word uttered in past 
lives is not destroyed, but ever comes 
again. The pepper plant will not give 
birth to roses, nor the sweet jessamine's 
silver star to thorn or thistle turn." 


Before one can answer the question what 
are the stars who can influence man, one 
must know what is man himself. Man is not 
merely the body we see, according to the 
Vedaantic doctrine, but the presiding deity 
within the body, so the stars and the planets 
are but the bodies of the Spiritual Beings 
within. As the final verse of the Isa Upanishad 
affirms: 


"O Puushan, the Sole Seer, Controller, O 
Suurya, son of Prajaapati; remove Thy 
rays and gather up the brilliant light, so 
that I may behold Thy glorious form. 


(INSTANT ASTROLOGICAL FORECAST _}——_______17 


That person who is within thee—well, I 
am He." 


The chief features of man's life are 
always in accordance with the constellation he 
is born under or with the characteristics of its 
animating principle or the deity that presides 
over it. If only he is aware that by every 
action, thought or feeling he is generating he 
is awakening the corresponding powers in the 
sidereal world, the potency of a knowledge of 
astrology will then be patent. No past can 
distress us, if we appreciate that it is our own 
creation, that the hand which smites us is our 
own, and we cannot blame God or Devil or 
our fellowmen for it. It is not the star that 
brings affliction or happiness but only a 
writing on the well. 


This brings us to the corollary that what 
we do NOW by acts, throughts and feelings 
are to be the writing on the wall of our 
future. As each individual is his own creator, 
his future personality will be the result of his 
present made of living. In the same manner, 
our present birth, with all its conditions, 
vicissitudes of ups and downs is the tree 


18—______ ANGA VIDYAA) 


grown out of the germ sown in past 
incarnations. As we sow, so we reap; and the 
present is the child of the past; and as there 
is but ONE LIFE that holds together all the 
planets of the Solar System, the position of 
the planets at the time of birth—an event 
culminating in the aggregate result of the 
causes already generated—give to the 
astrologist the clue, the data—or call it the 
Pass Book detailing one's accounts in the 
Bank—upon which to base his predictions. 


"Vedachakshu: kileydam bhaveyjjowtisham e 
mukhyataa chaangamadheysya teynouchyatey" 


Astrology-the Jyowtisha Saastra-is the eye 
of the Veda Purusha; it has three divisions: 
mathematics, horoscopy and Saakhaa. The 
collection of these is called Sambhitaa. 
Varaahamihira, the resident of Avanti and son 
of Aaditya Daasa, composed Suurya Siddhaanta 
in mathematics, Brihat Jaataka and Laghu 
Jaataka in the field or horoscopy, and Brihat 
Samhitaa a Samhitagrantha. The fiftieth chapter 
of this Brihat Samhitaa is Anga Vidyaa. While 
asking for the prediction the questioner 
touches some part or other of his body. By 
studying this behaviour, the auspicious and 


2 


(INSTANTASTROLOGICAL FORECAST _}—-—_______-19 


other effects of the prediction are to be 
inferred. 

There are 44 Slokas in this Chapter. Of 
these, the first treats of the fruits of the Anga 
Vidyaa, the second the way of knowing 
auspicious and inauspicious effects by 
knowing the place of the questioner. The 3rd, 
4th and 5th Slokas deal with the inauspicious 
sites. The 6th and 7th treat of the qualities of 
directions and time. The 8th and the 1st half 
of the 9th deal with the masculine and 
feminine parts in the body. The 9th and 10th 
deal with the eunuch parts. the 11th deals 
with the several effects of touching each of 
the parts separately. The 12th says that 
questioning while touching the chest denotes 
the separation of one. The 13th deals with the 
thoughts about place and servant. The 14th 


“s, deals with the thoughts about clothing. The 


15th and 16th speak about the various 
preoccupations of the questioner by observing 
the things in front of the questioner during 
his asking for the prediction. The 17th deals 
mith finding the preocupation by observing 
thé things the questioner holds in hand. 


20 ((ANGA VIDYAA ) 

The 18th tells of knowing the prosperity 
of the family and destruction of friends. The 
19th deals with the effects of wool, money, 
white silk, sandal pastes and ornaments. The 
20th deals with the preoccupation of the 
questioner about having gone abroad. The 
2lst deals with the preoccupation about thief, 
commander-in-chief, merchant, courtesan, the 
money-lender and the murderer. The 22nd 
deals with knowing that the preoccupation is 
about one who has gone out, toddy-vendor, 
protection of cows, and beggar. The 23rd 
deals with preoccupation about joint family. 
The 24th helps to distinguish whether the 
preoccupation is about thieves or relatives. 
The 25th and the 26th help in advising the 
tracing of the thief. 


The 27th and the 28th help to detect 
whether the lost article will be obtained or 
not. The first half of the 29th verse deals with 
whether the diseased person will die or will 
recover. Verses 29 to 36 deal with telling what 
the questioner has eaten. The 36th deals with 
comfortable child birth, and whether the child 
will be male, female or eunuch. The 37th tells 
us when a woman will become pregnant. The 
38th deals with when abortion will occur. The 


(INSTANT ASTROLOGICAL FORECAST _}———_________-21 


39th deals with the time of pregnancy. The 
40th and the 41st deal with how many 
children will be born. The 42nd and the 43rd 
give the various stars in which the woman 
will give birth. The 44th ends the work. 

a By memorizing these 44 verses and 
worshipping one's favourite deity, one can 
give prediction that will certainly come true. 


e We are highly appreciative of the 
expeditious and efficient service done by the 
énthusiastic publisher Mr.M.A. Jaishankar, by 
bringing out several editions of this book. He 
is the grandson of Rev. Pt. Kadalangudi Natesa 
Sastri. 
We hope that those who have anything to 
» do with or are interested in astrology will find 
the book useful and helpful. We will gratefully 
yeceive suggestions for improvement of the 
febook. 
Dr. K.N. Saraswathy 
Prof. B. Ardnanareeswarar 


SALUTATION TO THE 
NINE PLANETS 


I salute the SUN who is like the Hingula 
(‘Japaa' flower), who is Saga Kasyapa's son, 
who is effulgent, who is the dispeller of 
darkness, and who washes off sins. 


I salute the MOON whose colour is that 
of curd, conch and snow, who emerged out of 
the Milky Ocean and who bedecks the tuft of 
lord Siva. 


I salute MARS who is earth's son, who is 
as lustrous as lightning and who holds the 
weapon Sakti in his hand. 


I salute MERCURY, who is dark like 
Panicum Italicum (‘priyangu') bud, who is of 
peerless form, who is intelligent and 
quiet-natured, and who is the Moon's son. 


I salute JUPITER who is the Guru of gods 
and Rishis, who is extraordinarily intelligent, 
and who is the lord of the three worlds. 


I salute VENUS who is as bright as snow, 
the fragrant oleander (‘Kunda' flower) and the 
lotus stem, who is the Guru of demons, and 
who preaches all the Sastras. 


(INSTANT ASTROLOGICAL FORECAST _}—__________23 


I salute SATURN who shines like the blue 
mascara, who is the son of the Sun and 
Chhaayaa, and who is the elder brother of 
Yama. 

I salute RAAHU, who has half-body, who 
has valour, who opposes the Sun and the 
Moon and whose mother is Simhikaa. 

I salute KETU, who resembles Butes 
Frondosa (Palasa' flower) who is the head of 
stars and planets, and who is wrathful and 
fearsome. 


AT AA TT TTT | 


IRCRWCKIET 


ARAL | ST: - 
aes Dy Raferersseartterat 

ard weefrareaacat sare are fa | 
adat fe aerate aaaat fay 

Ser arehah: erga we aeatacatiary ui 


ANGA VIDYAA 
or 


V Instant Astrological Forecast 


The Kaala Purusha who pervades the 
animal and vegetable kingdoms, who is 
present everywhere, reveals through the 
behaviour like touching the bodily parts and 


34 CANGA VIDYAA) 


speech the auspicious and inauspicious effects 
on the questioner. The astrologist studies well 
the directions like the East etc., the things 
conveyed by the questioner, the place where 
the questioner is, the things brought at that 
time by others, the state of the parts of the 
body of the questioner and the others, the 
residue of time (Udaya Lagna) and predicts 
the auspicious or inauspicious effects. The 
touching of the parts of the body by the 
questioner is deemed to be instigated by the 
Kaala Purusha himself. 


Note: In the Brihat Jaataka it is indicated 
that aries, Leo and Sagittarius are east; Taurus, 
Virgo and Capricorn are south; Gemini, Libra 
and Aquarius are west; and Cancer, Scorpio 
and Pisces are north. The lords of directions 
are as follows: the east Sun; the southeast 
Venus; the south Mars; the southwest Rahu; the 
west Saturn; the northwest Moon; the north 
Mercury; and the northeast Jupiter. 


So the room of child birth if placed with 
the Lagna Rasis Aries, Cancer, Libra and 
Scorpio will be in the east of the house. If the 
Lagna Rasis are Sagittarius, Pisces, Gemini 
and Virgo the room is in the north. If the 


(INSTANT ASTROLOGICAL FORECAST __}—————____35 


Lagna Rasi is Taurus the room is in the west. 
If they are Capricorn and Leo the room is in 
the southern part. So in the verse the word 
‘dik' denotes that the astrologist should study 
well the directions and predict the effect 
accordingly. The word Sthaana indicates that 
he should find out also the place of the 
questioner and its Lagna Rasi and predict 
accordingly. 


Fay TTT YATAT BTSISeATA Bday Ades 
FIER Te RATT: F Faateron srferai ARTE 
arene Tere: KeAReatale | Tarra 
affat prayers ara a tt PTT | 


aa 2 a: aid aren areata | 
OR eI eRe Taher HEMT NBT 


Here indeed the Kaala Purusha is present 
in and pervades the moving and unmoving 
beings. He sees always all the auspicious and 
inauspicious affects and indicates them 
through the peculiar behaviour like touching 
the bodily parts, speech and other acts of 
behaviour. So the astrologist with faultless 
intellect, remembering well his field of study, 
for the sake of fame and Dharma, should 


36. ——___________{ ANGA VIDYAA) 


reveal the auspicious and inauspicious things 
to the desirous, (Sage Paraasara) 

Thus finding the place, direction, time 
and the things brought, and studying the 
touching of the bodily parts by the questioner 
the astrologist should predict. A 


Fe Sart gee afta arr Hitssasa- 
mega reaee THOTT TA 
Raft faa ary firafres weer went 
aeeatgan Poles rarerg TATRA NZI 


From this according to the place the 
astrologist sits in, the evil and good effects 
are to be known. 


With fragrant flowers, good fruits, good 
bark and leafy trees,without bad birds like 
crows or owls, with a good name, shaded with 
dense trees, even-surfaced, the abode of the 
celestial sages, brahmins and Siddhas, with 
good flowers and grain, with water strewn, 
with clean and sweet water and giving delight 
to the wind with good grassy place—this is a 
good venue for prediction. 


Note: In such a place if the astrologist 
predicts, his prediction will be accurate. 9 


(TSTANT ASTROLOGICAL FOREGKST_)—————-21 
we fea Ara aftrara avets wgE wa Heed TeRe: | 
ax Titga Pech: qenafctagretst ht: 1311 


The third verse indicates the bad place 
for the questioning. Damaged, broken, 
unpopular, spoilt by beetles and termites, with 
thorns fully grown, with burnt parts, without 
beauty, with angular growth, the cruel birds 
like crows, vultures and owls, with leaves dry 
and scattered with dark bark and leaves~—a 
place filled with such trees is not suited for 
questioning. Here the prediction made would 
not come true. 3 


TEN RNA Tera TE TasTg flat TATA | 
TERT ATES EATS ae: Tenet TPL 41 


Crematorium, uninhabited house, the 
crossing of four roads, the places not likeable, 
uneven - surfaced places, places always filled 
with dry mud, litter, coal, skull and ashes, 
places with chaff and dry grass — such 
places are also not suited for questioning. The 
questions shot at an astrologist in these places 
will fetch no good results. 4 


ABN Mafra ag afta fy Tart Aneta KATA: | 
fara afe Haeary arate Rat spay sit 


38—___"______/ ANGA VIDYAA) 


Mendicant, naked monk, barber, enemy, 
the places where cows are bound, the killer 
of cows, the places with these people and 
also persons like butcher, undertaker, 
gambler, ascetic, diseased person, the place 
with weapons, toddy shop, the dwelling of 
jewellers: these places are not auspicious. ...5 


FEU Teeter feat: Maree: MEA TTA TATA Ta: | 
qatentaster Gut Tal WeaTat TARAISTTE III! 


Now he sets forth the good and bad 
effects of directions and time. The east, north 
and northeast to the questioner are good. 
Northwest, west, south, southeast, southwest — 
these are not good. Moreover these auspicious 
directions too are so only during the first half 
of the day. Night, evening and afternoon and 
the latter half of the day are not auspicious to 
the questioner. aa) 


FEN ata R ppt a! 
rh ferred aie area 71 
CAPA THAT ET AT | 
we: ferd oftradse Te 8 


The indicating sign given in the 
Treatment of Travel chapter is applicable in 


(INSTANT ASTROLOGICAL FORECAST _}—___--_ 39 


the questioning chapter also. The astrologist 
should carefully note the things in point, 
things brought by the folk, things in the 
hands or cloth of the questioner and predict. 


| 
TE | SCURTTTS TA FIM TST AATAT 
Wot seit St BT Ts TATABA Aq 
it eaor ge BRA TR 
feat yarn feat ae grams TRL Ush 
He fever sfrar Perse eft grt 
we aft: Hobart Fara 18441 


The masculine feminine and eunuch parts 
of the body are indicated in the following 
verses: thighs, lips, breasts, testicles, feet, 
teeth, shoulders, hands, cheeks, hair, neck, 
nails, thumbs and big toes, armpits and 
shoulder blades, ears, arms, joints of all limbs 
— these are masculine parts. Eyebrows, nose, 
the nerve at the back of the neck, the three 
folds of the stomach, hip, the lines on the 
palms, the collection of fingers, tongue, neck, 
the back side of knees, the two heels, knees, 
navel, the pinnae, the back of the neck — all 
these are feminine parts. i) 


4g ANG AVIDYAA) 
Wi wet Ge ag arafer ered 
grea teas F i911 


aR AST a A Sree ATTA TATATTT 1 
‘fafealtang aaat wea achie RPT TS: 11011 


The face, bottom, the joint between the 
chest and the armpit, knee, bones, sides, 
heart, palate, eyes, the penis, chest, the back 
of the hip, head and forehead are eunuch 
parts. By touching the feminine parts the 
effect takes a long time. By touching the 
masculine parts the effect is seen to take plae 
soon. By touching the eunuch parts no effect 
will take place. If the masculine and feminine 
parts are without beauty, are hurt, broken, or 
emaciated, the prediction will never be 
accurate. ...9&10 


Whether a part of the body is to be 
taken as masculine, feminine or eunuch can 
be known from the following classification: 


THE MASCULINE PARTS OF 
THE HUMAN BODY 
1. thigh 4. testicles 


2. lips 5. feet 
3. breasts 6. teeth 


(INSTANT ASTROLOGICAL FORECAST __}—______— 41 


7. shoulders 13. thumb and big toes 
8. hands 14. armpits 

9. cheeks 15. shoulder blades 
10. hair 16. ears 

11. neck 17. anus 

12. nails 18. joints 


These give swift results. 


THE FEMININE PARTS OF 
THE HUMAN BODY 


1. eyebrows 8. neck 
2. nose 9. backside of the knee 
3. area between anus 10. heels 
and scrotum 11. knees 
4. vagina 12. navel 
5. the lines on the palm = 13. pinna 
6. the collection of 14. the bone at the 
fingers back of the neck 
7. tongue 15. three folds of the 


stomach 


These will give delayed results. 


42_________(ANGAVIDYAA) 
THE_EUNUCH PARTS OF 
THE HUMAN BODY 


1. face 8. the jaws and the 
2. bottom palate 
3. the joint between 9. eye 

chest and armpit 10. the penis 
4. knees 11. chest 
5. bones 12. the back side of 
6. sides vagina 
7. heart 13. head 


14. forehead 


These do not give result. 
There arises no result when there is any 
wrong formation, breakage or wound in the 
masculine and feminine parts. 


Wi Be aT alsdarsht TegEshread | 
angel sftqeatrn Rrereard FTAA 1M 


Then he tells the effects of the 
questioner touching individual organs:- 


While consulting the astrologist if the 
questioner touches the big toe or moves it he 
will get eye—-disease. If he touches or moves 
the fingers the daughter will be afflicted by 
misery, if he strikes his forehead while 


(INSTANT ASTROLOGICAL FORECAST _}—___________43 


questioning it indicates danger from the king. 


“14 
Sn Rorttraett cara: aterefrerdar wea 
Rifai poorarenTg Tg: 111211 


If he touches the chest it indicates that 
some separation is indicated for him. If the 
questioner removes the cloth from his body 
while questioning, suffering will accrue to 
him. If he holds the cloth and joins his feet 
he will get what he desires. 12 


Tn Tage Afaq at sater Rar 
EAT TY age arate AT N13 


If he scratches the ground with his big 
toe the astrologist should know that he is 
preoccupied with land problems. If he 
scratches his feet with his hands it indicates 
preoccupation about his servant- maid (or 
courtesan). 13 


Fite wits alisy Rete wager warty | 
SETA Ta ATT TERS T TANT THT 11 411 


Seeing palm-leaf-made things like fan, 
the bark of Bhurja tree indicates that the 
questioner wishes to consult about clothing. If 
the questioner touches hair, chaff of grain, 


(ANGA VIDYAA) * 


bone or ashes, it is indicated that diseases 
approach him.if he sees rope net or bark 
garments the astrologist should predict 
bondage. 14 


Te Reet ais gts ake ter He sare, ST: | 
TATA ATTN TAL THSATETTTH AAT 11 Sit 


et goa atatifta wate wer ara | 
Ragerefitar Para: Hrfeteaee: 11.611 


Seeing Ficus Religiosa indicates 
preoccupation about a maligned woman. 
Seeing pepper denotes preoccupation about a 
maligned man. Seeing dry ginger denotes 
that he is thinking about a diseased or dead 
person. Seeing of speaking about Syprus 
Rotundus (a water tuber) denotes overall 
destruction. Seeing Symphocos Racemosa (a 
tree with yellow’ flowers) indicates 
preoccupation about loss of money. Seeing 
Costus Speciosus (a medicinal herb) denotes 
preoccupation about destruction of son. 
Seeing cloth indicates preoccupation about 
loss of materials. Seeing watery places 
denotes preoccupation about destruction of 
grain. Speaking about or seeing Panicum 
Miliaceum (a medicinal herb and spice) 


(INSTANT ASTROLOGICAL FORECAST _}———________45 


denotes preoccupation about destruction of 
offspring. Seeing Indian Spikehand (Valumina) 
denotes preoccupation about the destruction 
of two-footed and two-hoofed animals and 
four-hoofed animals. Seeing Carsia Amiculata 
indicates preoccupation about the destruction 
of all laws. 


This translation follows the commentary 


of Bhattotpala. 15816 


TEN wane wy fess eq BATT sat TATRA: | 
TT HAR ST Stays BATT KIT 


If the seeds of Ficus Indica and Jasminus 
Grandiflorum or Kampilla are in the hands of 
the questioner if should be predicted that 
there will be gain of money. If he holds fruits 
of Barsia Laligolia it should be predicted that 
gold will be obtained. If he holds seeds of 
tamarind it should be predicted that he will 
gain a man's services. If he has a rose apple, 
he will gain iron. If he has a peepul seed 
(Ficus Infectoria) then he will gain clothing. If 
he has mangoes, he will gain silver. if he has 
fruit of the Jujube tree (Zizyphus Jujuba) he 


will gain copper. AT 


46@—__________t____m___( ANGAVIDYAA } 
Fu weashtpins Fe: wh Heer ged | 
ToT AT IAT TNT erat Fakes Ge fara 111 81 


If a pot full of grains or a pot full of 
water is seen this will amount to the family 
prosperity. If the dung of elephant, cow or 
dog is seen it will mean the destruction of 
money, woman and friend respectively. 


Note: Here Paraasara indicates that 
seeing cow dung denotes the bad conduct of 
a woman, seeing an elephant denotes gain of 
money, and seeing elephant dung impiles 
decrease of wealth. 18 


FS TY fer fae TET Gara SATA AEE 
safe at Prva reer BANAT AAT HATA 19 


While seeking answer to the question if 
a cow is seen the questioner will obtain a 
woollen clothing. If an elephant is seen money 
will be gained. If a buffalo is seen while silk 
will be gained. If a lotus is seen sandal paste 
will be gained. If silver is seen white silk will 
be gained. If a tiger is seen jewels will be 
obtained. (Here the meaning for 'Nivasana’ is 
given as white silk by both Bhattotpala and 
Paraasara). 19 


(INSTANT ASTROLOGICAL FORECAST _}—____-47 
uy RTs Fr Rare alr arte 
faa an draratrn ay afeariga 1201 


If an old Kapaalika mendicant is seen 
during time of question the question is about 
a period of gambling. If a good ascetic is 
seen it is about a courtesan, king or a just 
delivered woman. 20 


FEN anatase tasty Pfr rer ae: | 
She Tee -afrat ae Aas TUTET TAL 2 111 


If a Buddhist monk is seen the question 
is about a thief. It one sees the preceptor it is 
about the commander-in-chief. If one sees a 
Jain monk it is about the merchant. If one 
sees a Kapaalika it is about the maid-servant 
(or courtesan). If one sees the astrologist — 
(Bhattotpala gives the meaning of 'nimitta’ as 
one learned in astrology) — it is about a 
warrior. If one sees a merchant it is about the 
money-lender in the market. If one sees a 
fisherman it is about a murderer. 21 


TU aaa woes ee MAT TTT 
tat Penerageageh free 12211 


It an ascetic is seen during the time of 
questioning the questioner is preoccupied 


48__ df ANGAVIDYAA 


with a man gone abroad. If a toddy vendor or 
a drunkard is seen it is about protecting the 
cows. If a beggar is seen, it is about someone 
in danger. 22, 


FEN Fark We wor Pca: anfeicat 
Pav RSAC oreratga rea 112 311 


If the questioner uses the expression, "I 
am desirous of asking you", his preoccupation 
is about the worries due to a joint family. If 
he uses the expression "let the esteemed 
person notice this" his preoccupation is about 
gains. If he says "you should tell well" his 
preoccupation is about wealth. 123 


Ee Pfeate wee sara gerne ae fafa ae | 
ay wearer AT aT ETAT T THY AAT 2411 


If the questioner says "point out" the 
question will be about victory or travel. if he 
says "reflect well, find out and tell whatever is 
on my mind", the question will be about a 
relative. If he says to the astrologist who is in 
the midst of several people ‘tell me quickly' 
the question will be about a thief. 24 


FEN wae care see gras are wT 
Tray Ura tes Bev TAT TAT AA: FAT | 


(INSTANT ASTROLOGICAL FORECAST __}—___49 
ae Fea wate art aria ereearat 
Trager FTE YT RAT IZ5II 


If the questioner touches part of the 
body the thief will be his own relative. If he 
touches outside parts the thief will be 
someone outside his family. If the questioner 
touches his big toe the thief is the 
questioner's slave. If he touches other toes of 
the foot, it is the servant maid. If he touches 
his knee- caps the servant is the thief (or else 
the cook or the clerk). If he touches his navel 
the sister of the questioner is the thief. If he 
touches his heart his own wife is the thief. If 
he touches his thumb the son of the 
questioner is the thief. If he touches other 
fingers in the hand the daughter of the 
questioner is the thief. 


Note: In our Brihat Jaataka in the verse 
"Kalangani Varangamananam" the various 
limbs of Kaala Purusha are given as follows: 


Head is Aries; face-Taurus; chest-Gemini; 
heart-Cancer; stomach-Leo; hips-Virgo; 
kidney-Libra; the male and _ female 
organs-Scorpio; the two thighs-Sagittarius; the 
two knee caps-Capricorn; the two 


50—__________________{ ANGA VIDYAA) 


knees-Aquarius; and the two feet-Pisces. Aries 
has the stars Aswini, Bharani and a quarter of 
Krittikaa; Taurus, the three quarters of 
Krittikaa, Rohini and two quarters of Mrigasira; 
Gemini two quarters of Mrigasira, Anuraadhaa 
and three quarters of Punarvasu; till Aasleshaa 
Cancer; till the first quarter of Chittaa Leo. Till 
the first two quarters of Chittaa Virgo; till the 
three quarters of Vishaakhaa Libra; till 
Jyeshthaa Scorpio; till the first quarter of 
Uttaraashaadhaa Sagittarius; till the three 
quarters of Poorvabhadraa Aquarius; and till 
Revati Pisces. 


So, if Aries and its stars are present at 
the time, the stolen article is an ornament of 
the head. Taurus and its stars, if present at 
the time, indicate that the article is an 
ornament to be worn in the face. If Gemini 
and its stars are present it is to be worn in 
the chest. If Cancer and its stars, it is to be 
worn on the heart; if Leo and its stars. it is to 
be worn on the stomach. If Virgo and its stars 
it is to be worn on the hip. Similarly, 
according to the constellation and its stars, 
things suited to the places are to be 
predicted. Morever according to the verse 


(INSTANT ASTROLOGICAL FORECAST_}——________51 


"Svacharaascha sarve" (Brihat Jaataka 1:5), the 
stolen article is to be found in the places 
indicated by the constellations (of Aries etc.) 

Also in the verse 'plavatvam svamya 
sakhyam! (Brihat Jaataka 1:20) the hiding place 
of the thief and the place where the stolen 
ornament is, is given. That is, for Aries and 
Scorpio, Mars is the ruling planet, his 
direction is south, so the direction of the 
stolen article is south. Similarly for Taurus and 
Libra, Venus is the ruling planet, his direction 
is south-east. Gemini and Virgo have the 
ruling planet Mercury; his direction is north, 
Cancer has the ruling planet Moon; his 
direction is northwest. Leo has the ruling 
planet Sun; his direction is East. Sagittarius 
and Pisces have the ruling planet Jupiter; his 
direction is north east. Capricorn and 
Aquarius have the ruling planet Saturn; his 
direction is west, So, according to the 
constellation and the ruling planet, the place 
and the direction of the stolen article can be 
found. Also Brihat Jaataka first and second 
chapters are to be consulted for this. 
(Refer the author's Brihat Jaataka) 


52 -{ ANGA VIDYAA ) 


RASIS LORD DIRECTION PLAVANGAS 
Aries & Scorpio Mars South Aries and Scorpio 
Taurus & Libra Venus Southeast Taurus & Libra 
Gemini & Virgo Mercury North Gemini & Virgo 
Cancer Moon Northwest Cancer 
Leo Sun East Leo 
Sagittarius Jupiter Northeast Sagittarius & 

Pisces 
Capricorn & Saturn West Capricorn & 
Aquarius Aquarius 


From the Rasi and the stars one can find 
out the stolen or lost article. 25 


WE AR Hat HT Aaah TAA | 
ATE Mase AeA Spat TATLANT 2611 


It the questioner touches his stomach the 
thief is his mother. If he touches his head it is 
his preceptor. If he touches the right shoulder 
it is the brother. If he touches the left 
shoulder it is his wife. 26 


FSU THAT ATENT SH eS HU HST: | 
BT AA THAT TARAS CUTE VT UTI 


FE WRT Aa TeAetatsaTaT 
art ya Rates aaelaeT TAT | 


(INSTANT ASTROLOGICAL FORECAST _}——————______53 


ea virameqa fate form Talafea 
FATA HAT T TAL 2Si 


If the questioner touches, instead of his 
own parts, parts outside or if he lets out 
phlegm, urine or faeces, or if he drops 
something being held in his palm, or if he 
causes a rattling sound in the much-bent 
limbs, or sees an empty pot brought by folk, 
or if he sees another thief, if he sees a 
burgled person, a fallen one, a wounded one, 
a forgotten one, a destroyed one, a 
broken-limbed one, a runaway one, a 
kidnapped one, or if he hears laments about 
a dead person the questioner would not gain 
back the stolen article. 


Note: If these indications are not there he 
will gain back his stolen article. 27 & 28 


The _— next verse indicates the 
characteristics of the death of diseased 
persons. 


Fett Prrfeate acaeert qarfer fimR%: 
We Aicat Hereatat aaa F238 Yi 


The contents of the 27th verse 
(beginning ‘antarangam avamuchya') are 


§4—@ Eee ANGA VIDYAA 
a 


applicable to the diseased persons. If, in 
addition, there is chaff of grain, bone or 
poison and also pus and wounds, death for 
the diseased person is indicated. The 'adi' in 
'Vishadikai:' denotes that from the sounds 
‘echinnam' 'mritam' and 'jagdham' also death is 
indicated. 1.28% 


WE Hamat eeasaer es WETTER 
aftag car apntsat dete: AfearaaT 290 


The next verse speaks of the knowledge 
about feeding:- 


If he touches the internal limb and lets 
out wind and demands answer to a question, 
then the questioner has eaten a lot of food 
and is contented. So should it be predicted. 


a || were BRlaERea AUT aTT | 
WR CHT Aare Hares TATRA N30 


If the questioner touches his forehead or 
sees the awn of grain he would have eaten 
rice. If he touches his chest he would have 
eaten rice ripened in sixty days. If he touches 
his neck he would have eaten barley. 30 


ON eaten a 


(INSTANT ASTROLOGICAL FORECAST }—______55 
TE He Ha eat ay erat ATT: Tafeds FAVA: | 
HTT TE fora MAT TA FTL 310 


If he touches his stomach, he would have 
eaten black-gram. If he touches his heart he 
would have drunk milk food. If he touches the 
belly he would have eaten sesamum. If he 
touches the knee he would have eaten barley 
decoction. If he licks or smacks his lips he 
would have eaten something sweet. wl 


Wi fge ened frend wet AQraq | 
aeasy warasey fae ws Bars 13211 | 


If he licks the corner of the mouth or 
tongue he would have eaten something sour. 
If he alters his countenance he would have 
eaten something hot. If he hiccups he would 
have eaten something astringent. If he spits 
he would have eaten something salty. ww dD 


If he spits phlegm he would have eaten 
something dry and bitter. If you hear others 
telling it he would have eaten very little. If he 


5 


( ANGA VIDYAA) 1 


looks hither and thither he would have eaten 
a carnivore or food mixed with meat. If he 
touches his eyebrow, cheek or lips he would 
have eaten bird meat. 3 


AS aed re eT ey Tw WT eT TET BET | 
TAASTAT THOT TAT AKT ART FAPHANS 41 


If he touches his head he would have 
eaten elephant meat. If he touches his neck 
he would have eaten buffalo meat. If he 
touches his hair, he would have eaten mutton. 
If he touches his jaw he would have eaten 
pork. If he touches his temple, he would have 
eaten cow's meat. If he touches his ear he 
would have eaten hare's meat. If he touches 
his knee he would have eaten venison. if he 
touches his penis he would have eaten buffalo 
meat. 4 


AEN ReyASAERA Ata AMT Ta 
aioe Mier a Peart THeTHT TT 13.51 


If an ill omen is seen or heard the 
questioner has eaten fish meat or meat of an 
alligator (iguana). Similarly if an ill omen is 
seen or heard in the case of a pregnant 
woman the foetus on her womb will be 
aborted. ae) 


INSTANT ASTROLOGICAL FORECAST 7 


The next verse gives the sex of the child 
born and safe delivery: 


TEU Fea AAT eBsafiet Tees BP 
TI WAT TATA TST HS BAT T DTT U6 


If during the time of the question about 
the gender of the child to be born, a man is 
seen or guessed a male child will be born. If 
a eunuch is seen or remembered the child 
will be a eunuch. But if during the time of 
questioning drinks, food, flower or fruit are 
seen the delivery will be easy and safe. 36 


The next verse deals with predicting 
whether the question is about child birth: 


EU agin Agha 
Pat Pag MAM Tal FAT | 
WATS BA Te WATS - 
Trtat Arg TET 1371 


If the questioner touches with his thumb 
his eyebrow, belly or finger during 
questioning then his preoccupation will be 
_about child birth. If honey, ghee, etc, gold, 
ruby or coral is seen in front or if the 
questioner's mother, nurse or offspring is seen 


5 


( ANGA VIDYAA) 


in front then also the question will be about 
child birth. 37 


HS apiga Hat Bet care se Merfred aaeTSAT: | 
aah tat ahftateiizta: Bera Arsh 13 Bil 


The sage speaks about conception and 
abortion. If the woman touches her belly it 
means that she is pregnant. Due to ill omens 
like injury, agitation, breakage, destruction, 
burning are seen or if milk is seen there will 
be abortion. If the woman touches the belly 
after touching a wooden plank, or asks the 
question holding one hand with another also 
there will be abortion. 38 


FEM MOTT ACY A EYE ATA IrAL TIT | 
aTtseat aot Ta aT fLol$f: afreTa 301 


The sage treats the time of conception in 
the next verse: 

If the right nostril is touched by her 
thumb the woman will conceive after one 
month. If the left nostril or ear is touched thus 
she will conceive within two years. Similarly if 
she touches the right ear the time of 
conception is within two months. If she 
touches either breast she will conceive within 
four months. 39 


(INSTANT ASTROLOGICAL FORECAST }—~——___59 


The sage tells about the number of 
children that will be born: 


FEN AehS Ae GaTy HTS 
aot PRT Te GT TT TI 
oUt wars TIGA 
TAR Uist wish TINT 140N 
While demanding an answer to the 
query if the women touches the base of the 
plait three sons and two daughters will be 
born. If the two ears are touched five sons 
will be born. From the base of the thumb till 
the tips wherever it is touched five sons will 
be born. If the big toe or the waist is touched 
one daughter will be born. 40 


TE eeaRa RTT Ad MT YAATT! 
Be areal Ag fe TAT ATTN 


If the right or left thigh is touched two 
daughters and two sons will be born. If the 
middle of the forehead is touched four sons 
and four daughters will be born. If the edge 
of the forehead is touched three daughters 
will be born. 


Note: Here the commentary of Paraasara 
gives relevant details: "If the woman touches 


60—_________(ANGA VIDYAA) 


the belly, at once it should be known that she 
is pregnant. If she touches the right nostril 
with the thumb she will conceive within one 
month. If she touches the left nostril with the 
thumb, within two years; if the right ear hole 
is touched, within two months; if the left ear 
hole is touched within two years. If the 
breasts are touched with the thumb she will 
conceive within four months. 


If she touches a wooden seat and 
scratches the stomach or grips one hand with 
the other while questioning, or broken iron 
hatchet, iron pestle, rock, overflowing water, 
movement, falling down, breakage or noise is 
seen or happens there will be abortion. So 
also if food, drinks, flower, fruit, bird, a male 
biped, a male quadruped is seen or heard 
the child will be male. If the feminine of 
these is seen or heard the child will be 
female. If the eunuch of these is seen or 
heard, the child will be eunuch. Moreover if 
during the questioning the questioner touches 
the male parts of the body the child will be 
male; if she touches the female parts the 
child will be female and if she touches the 
eunuch parts the child will be a eunuch. 


INSTANT ASTROLOGICAL FORECAST 61 


Moreover if the woman questioning 
touches the base of hex plait two daughters 
and three sons will be born. If she touches 
the middle of the forehead four children will 
be born; if she touches the edge of the 
forehead three; if she touches her ears, five 
children; if she touches the right thigh while 
questioning two daughters and two sons; if 
she touches the left thigh three daughters and 
two sons. If she touches the big toe only one 
daughter is predicted. If she touches the two 
sides also only one daughter will be born. 

Al 


EN Ret wore y wT ToS Hy TT TE! 
TAT HRT BE RegH ATH N42 
ae He Boy 
Teds Vat Thea 
Fee TTY ARE FT TAL 
wese ware feta) 114311 


Sage Varaahamihira tells in which star the 
pregnant woman will deliver the child:- 

If during questioning, the pregnant 
woman touches the head she will give birth 
in star Krittikaa; if she touches the forehead, 
in Rohini; if she touches the eye brows, in 


62—_______________( ANGA VIDYAA) 


Mrigasira; if she touches the ears, in Aardraa; 
if she touches the cheeks. in Punarvasu; if she 
touches the upper jaw, in Pushy a; if she 
touches the neck, in Makha; if she touches the 
right shoulder, in Pubba; if she touches the 
left shoulder, in Uttaraa; if she touches the 
head, in Hasta; if she touches her chest, in 
Vishaakhaa; if she touches the right breast, in 
Anuraadhaa; if she touches the left breast, in 
Jyeshthaa; if she touches the heart, in Moolaa; 
if she touches the right shoulder blade, in 
Poorvaashaadhaa; if she touches the left 
shoulder blade, in Uttaraashaadhaa; if she 
touches the stomach, in Sravana; if she 
touches the left thigh, in Uttarabhadraa; if she 
touches the knee, in Revati; if she touches the 
ankle, in Aswini, and it she touches the fest, 
in Bharani. 42 & 43 


aeafe are: Grate WaT 14411 


This science in the form of prediction by 
observing the touching of the body is 
expounded as a means of obtaining the 


(INSTANT ASTROLOGICAL FORECAST} 63 


well-wished-for object. One who has studied 
well the precious works of Garga and 
Paraasara, and has vast knowledge and great 
personality will be praised and worshipped 
by kings and the populace. wA4 


Anga Vidyaa 


or 
Instant Astrological Forecast ends 


GLOSSARY ) 


International botanical names are used in 
the book since the names differ from place to 
place and language to language. 

The number within brackets indicates the 


Sloka in which the term occurs. 

Anga : bodily organ 

Brihat : of large size/magnitude 

Dik: direction ; cardinal point 

Garga (44): an Indian sage and astrological writer 
Kaala Purusha (1): the creator and keeper of Time; God 
Lagna : ascendant 

Nivasana (19): white silk 

Paraasara (44): an Indian sage and astrological writer 
Raasi : Zodiacal sign 


Samhitaa : collection; the collection of the 3 divisions of 
astrology 


Siddhas : a class of devas / gods 
Sthaana : position 

Udaya Lagna : rising sign 

Vidyaa : branch of study; science. 


