AY Philosophy of Astrology 


Anil Chawla 


Contents 


Preface 
1. Introduction 
2. Cyclical Nature Of Life - Good Times, Bad Times 
3. Continuity of life after life 
4. Complexity Of Life - Twelve Houses 
5. Predicting The Future 
6. Cosmic Influences on Man 
7. Fatalism, Determinism, Free Will And Astrology 
Annexures 
1A. What The Houses Represent 
By Bangalore Venkata Raman 
1B. What The Houses Represent 
By Prof. K.S. Krishnamurti 
1C. Houses 
2. Elements & Zodiac Signs 
3. Planets 


About The Author — Page No. 32 


PREFACE 


Astrology is a much-maligned branch of knowledge. On one hand, it has suffered at 
the hands of astrologers, who accept no limitations on their capabilities to predict the 
future and see human race as puppets in the hands of an anthromorphic omniscient 
Supreme Being. On the other hand, pseudo-scientists — who rarely understand even 
the rudiments of philosophy of science — keep performing poorly designed 
experiments to discredit and disprove astrology. 


Sledgehammer approach of so-called rationalists is based on two premises — (a) the 
purpose of astrology is to predict the future and (b) astrology presumes determinism, 
fatalism and absence of free will. Needless to say, that both the premises are far from 
truth. However, even astrologers are rarely able to say so. That, and that alone, is the 
raison d’étre for this mini-book. 


More than fifteen years ago, | met Mr. Kirti Ashar, an amateur astrologer, and now a 
good friend, who tried to teach me fundamentals of astrology. All his efforts were in 
vain. Planets, zodiac signs and houses confuse me. Yet, the subject fascinated me. It 
is an ancient branch of knowledge, but still under-developed. 


Generally speaking, no astrologer is willing to admit that astrology is an under- 
developed discipline. Astrologers swear by individual knowledge and_ individual 
astrologer’s ability to awe by predicting the most unpredictable. There is no attempt to 
work out a common disciplinary matrix of law, theory, application, instrumentation, 
symbolic generalizations, shared commitments to beliefs, values, tacit knowledge and 
exemplars — in other words, to develop, what Thomas Kuhn describes as, a paradigm 
of astrology. 


In my humble attempt of penning A Philosophy of Astrology, | have attempted to lay 
the first stone for building a paradigm of modern astrology. | shall consider my efforts 
successful if it inspires some other thinkers, astrologers, philosophers and 
psychologists to move further in this direction. 


Simultaneously, | hope that this mini-book will help a layman (or woman), who visits 
an astrologer to better utilize astrological advice. When one goes to a doctor, one 
knows that one may still die. Similarly, when you visit an astrologer, please 
understand that he is no God, nor does he have a direct hotline to the Almighty. 


Before | end this short note and you move on to the chapters, please allow me to 
thank Mr. Kirti Ashar, who may well claim to be the source of many of the ideas 
expressed in this mini-book. Thanks are also due to Prof. D.S. Karaulia, who was kind 
enough to lend me some very useful books and also to read the first few pages of the 
initial draft. 


Anil Chawla 
Vijayadashmi, 
23 October 2004 


1. Introduction 


Jyotish, a Sanskrit word, is often translated as astrology. Jyotish does include 
astrology. However, literally speaking, the word means knowledge that provides light. 
In its strictest sense, jyotish does not predict the future. It is akin to light that enables 
one to see. In spite of abundance of light, one needs eyes to be able to see anything. 


The set of eyes that enable one to see is called Darshan Shastra, which is translated to 
mean philosophy. Western philosophy, with its history of speculation, never had to 
serve the practical role that Darshan Shastra had to serve in Indian context. All 
through history, with the exception of past two or three centuries, European 
philosophers had a very limited role in their society. Religion and theological 
authorities had all the answers. They did not need the services of philosophers. If at all 
philosophers survived, it was due to the mercy of some kings. The role of philosophers 
in the courts of kings was either to dazzle (and puzzle) courtiers with their superb 
arguments or to help the king fight the Church. As far as Church is concerned, it had 
no use for original thinkers or philosophers. Church was (and even today is) content 
with interpretation of the Holy Book. 


In India, religion was dynamic and open to new ideas and growth. There was no tying 
down to a Holy Book. A philosopher or darshanik enjoyed a fair level of freedom. 
Hence, darshan shastra evolved to serve the Weltanschauung or existentialist concerns 
of man. The primary purpose of darshan shastra is to provide the ideological 
framework that would enable one to see oneself and the world. 


An attempt is made in the following pages to elucidate some essential concepts of 
Darshan that are necessary for appropriate use of jyotish. 


2. Cyclical Nature Of Life - Good Times, Bad Times 


Life has a cyclical nature. Good times follow bad times and vice versa. Surely, good 
and bad are labels that we, human beings, put based on our limited perceptions. There 
is nothing that is all good and nothing that is all bad. 


Consider the example of agriculture. To begin with, the fields are vacant. One ploughs 
the fields, takes grain from home and disperses in the fields. This is the first stage 
called sowing. At the beginning of this stage, there was some grain at home but now at 
the end of this stage, there is no grain at home either; there is some grain hidden in the 
soil, but one does not know whether it will grow up or wither away. The second stage 
is growth. Plants have started growing. They need care. One can feel happy seeing 
them grow, but at this stage if someone wants grain, there is nothing that one can get. 
For that one has to move on the third stage of reaping, when one can reap the crop. 


Sowing, growth and reaping — these three stages are essential for crops. Life follows a 
similar pattern. There is one phase of life when one has to only sow. In the other phase 
one can see some progress but one cannot still enjoy the fruits of one’s labours. 
Followed by this is the phase when one can enjoy the fruits. In case of agricultural 
crops, the time and duration of each phase is determined by variations in temperature 
and humidity caused by seasonal variations. In case of human beings, planetary 
movements determine the phases. 


Planetary movements determine the duration and timing, but they do not determine the 
quantum of results, which are determined by one’s own efforts, present and past. It is 
like one knows that an Indian farmer will get crop of wheat in the month of March, but 
the quantity of wheat that he can harvest depends on the efforts put in by him, the seed 
chosen by him and the area of land owned by him. 


Many astrologers often advise their clients to lie low when the times are “bad”. In 
fact, when one looks at personal lives of most astrologers, one notices that they 
rarely achieve much success in their personal lives. The reason lies in their wrong 
notion of “bad” times. The times, when one cannot get results, is viewed by many 
astrologers as bad. Since one cannot get results and one has to face failure, why 
venture — this is the common refrain. They fail to see the so-called bad times as 
sowing times. When one does not sow during the period that one is supposed to 
sow, one gets nothing during the harvest time. Every failure is indeed an 
investment. Inability to face failures head-on and desire to get quick successes is a 
sure recipe for disaster prescribed by many astrologers who lack the perspective 
provided by darshan. 


Sowing is not the time to get depressed and at harvest time one must not forget all 
about future. A wise farmer starts preparing for the next sowing as soon as he has 
harvested a crop. Even before he lets his family eat the grain, he keeps a portion 
away to sow for the next crop. Similarly, a wise man knows that at times when one 
is being lauded for achievements, one must start planning for the next phase when 
one will have to once again till the land and sow the seed. 


3. Continuity of life after life 


This is a presupposition or postulate of the theory of Karma. Every action leads to 
some effects. If one does some action or work, one is bound to get the results for it, 
sooner or later — in this life or the next. Everyone is born with a balance sheet of 
one’s actions from the previous birth and carries forward a balance sheet into the 
next birth. No one can read the balance sheet, but that does not mean that it does not 
exist. One can always work to improve upon the opening balances. 


If one accepts the above theory, one can understand why some people achieve so 
much with hardly any effort while some others struggle to achieve even a small 
success. 


A person’s horoscope may give an idea of the opening balances that he / she began 
with. A horoscope cannot give any idea of the efforts that the person might have or 
have not put into various ventures during his life. A good horoscope is like being 
the owner of a big field, which is very fertile. But a huge fertile field will also yield 
nothing if one does not till it and sow it properly. On the other hand no land is so 
barren that a skilled farmer, with hard work and perseverance, cannot grow some 
crop or the other on it. And what would you say about a field so barren that not even 
a blade of grass would grow on it, yet beneath its surface it hides precious minerals. 


4. Complexity Of Life - Twelve Houses 


Human life cannot be judged or measured like a field of wheat can be — in terms of 
tons of wheat produced. When anyone looks at one’s own life, there is bound to be a 
mix of pleasures and sorrows, achievements and missed opportunities. A person who is 
blessed with fame, riches and wealth may have bad health; another person who is 
otherwise successful may have a troubled family life. Life is not a single parameter 
game. Fulfilment and satisfaction of life comes from a large number of areas. Indian 
thinkers divided life into twelve houses or bhavs. 


Annexure 1A gives the matters that are covered by various houses as given by famous 
astrologer, B.V. Raman. Prof. K.S. Krishnamurti’s description of the houses is given in 
Annexure 1B. 


A comparison of the two descriptions (given by BV Raman and Prof. Krishnamurti) 
shows many differences. For example, Krishnamurti mentions third house to be related 
to heroism, but BV Raman does not say so. There are many such differences, which a 
reader may notice. Without getting involved with these, let us look at two quotations 
from the two books, which illustrate a very vital point. 


Prof. K.S. Krishnamurti says (p.189), “The second house governs second marriage. 
This is so because the 2™ house is the 8" to the 7” representing the first wife and it is 
generally after the death of the first wife that one will go in for second marriage.” 


Raman B.V. says (p.3), “In applying the rules contained in astrological books to 
practical horoscopes one must definitely bear in mind that they are merely for his 
guidance. In addition to knowledge of astrology, one must also exercise discretion and 
common sense coupled, of course, with a certain amount of intuition.” 


Prof. Krishnamurti has assumed a strictly monogamous life with no extra-marital 
affairs, as must be usual in the orthodox South Indian Hindu upper caste middle class 
families that he might have been interacting with. He fails to appreciate that in some 
sections of society (for example Muslims) bigamy may not be as unusual. His logic for 
second house governing second marriage has no basis in case of a bigamous person. 
Some Hindu thinkers have looked at any unison of body, mind and soul between a man 
and a woman as a marriage. An intimate extra-marital affair of a man may be a second 
marriage. Some astrologers may look at such a second marriage as governed by 
seventh house, while some others may consider it to be a matter of 2™ or even 12" 
house. 


Such differences of opinion, among astrologers, are rarely sorted out by open debate, 
deliberations and discussions. Most astrologers resort to, what BV Raman says, 
“discretion and common sense coupled, of course, with a certain amount of intuition”. 
This leads to a situation where no two astrologers can arrive at any agreement about 
any matter. Obviously, this is not an ideal situation for growth of astrology as a faculty. 


The problem with description of houses, for that matter with astrology as a whole, is 
that it was worked out centuries ago on the basis of life as it was then. Life has 
undergone a sea change in the past few centuries. But, there has been hardly any 
systematic joint attempt by astrologers, as a group, to redefine the houses based on 
today’s life, technological advancements and social structures. One of the reasons for 
this is that the philosophical basis of astrology is almost lost. In the absence of a 
philosophy, astrology as a discipline has become a series of empirical observations, 
quick-result formulae without a soul or a vital life force. 


Most astrologers do look at the twelve houses as an image of the sky, but in looking at 
human mind, body and life as corresponding to the sky, they use ancient tools that 
have not been adequately updated with time. In Annexure 1C, I propose a classification 
of houses based on Dharm, Arth, Kam and Moksh. 


Dharm relates to essential duties that one must perform to live life as an individual, as 
a member of a family and as a social being in relation with the cosmos. The first and 
foremost dharm of any person is towards his own body — he / she must take care of 
physiological needs. This is allocated to the first house. In a way, this is the bottom of 
Maslow’s triangle. 


MASLOW'S 
HIERARCHY 


SELF REALIZATION 


SOCIAL DESIRE 


SAFETY AND STABILITY 


PHYSIOLOGICAL DE SIRE 


The next level of dharm is when one moves beyond oneself to the ones whom one 
considers as close relatives. Children symbolize the next level of one’s duties and are 
represented in the fifth house. 


Taking care of children is instinctive. Most animals do that. Taking care of one’s father 
is not instinctive. This comes from a realization of one’s duty that only humans are 
capable of. All such types of dharm are allocated to the ninth house. 


While dharm stands for essential duties, arth means resources that are necessary for 
living. The first level of resources is wealth and possessions; second level is one’s own 
skills, competence, and ability to face challenges; and the third level is one’s career, 
profession, social position, reputation and honour in the society. The first level is 
intensely personal, second level involves close interactions that challenge, while the 
last level involves interaction with a whole that is not confined to one’s close circle. 
The three levels of arth are represented by 2"', 6" and 10" houses respectively. 


Having gathered the necessary resources for life, a person must move on to building 
relations with other human beings. The first level of relations is with one’s siblings; 
second level of relations comes when one gets a spouse or gets into a partnership; and 
a higher level of relationships is when one has personal goals, friends, achievements 
and ambitions. The three levels of relating to the world or in other words three levels 
of kam can also be seen from a different perspective. The first level is communications 
involving exchange of information and thoughts. At the second level intimacy grows to 
a level that communication or exchange of information is just a small part of the 
exercise — one links in a fashion that one unites with the other. Moving to a higher 
level, one is no longer tied with one’s personal needs; one now looks at oneself 
through the eyes of the world. One’s desires and passions take on a different colour. Of 
course, at the third level of desires, each person may define one’s own path. The three 
levels of kam are allocated respectively to 3", 7" and 11" houses. 


The last set pertaining to moksh is the most difficult to define. It is the part of life that 
liberates one. It is the window to divinity available to mankind. The first experience of 
divinity that every human being has is in one’s mothers lap. Sucking on the mother’s 
breast is a divine experience for a child. Such simple pleasures are the subject matter of 
fourth house — the first stage of moksh. 


The next level of divine experience is more complex. One may get close to 
experiencing the divinity through death of a close one (or even oneself) or through a 
sexual experience — not the type where one establishes a close intimate relationship (7" 
house) but an intensely physical, passionate and mind-blowing act. One may even have 
an accult exnerience 


Each person experiences 8" house in his / her own way. Surely, this can be said about 
each house. But, it is more so in case of 8" house where one seeks liberation from a 
mundane life and moves to an arena of experiences where one’s close ones are 
involved but they serve only to help the individual achieve liberation from bondages. 


The highest level of liberation from bondages naturally involves loss, sometimes, 
total loss. On the other hand it also involves gaining access to a world that is not 
comprehensible with ordinary senses. If one believes in life after death, it is surely a 
matter of 12" house. In Maslow’s triangle, the highest level of self-transcendence is 
the matter of 12" house. But for some, liberation from bonds is a state of 
uncontrolled behaviour that violates all norms of society. Highest level of liberation 
may also mean existentialist alienation leading to meaninglessness and boredom. In 
such a case, one may murder or rape or indulge in uncontrolled sex with large 
number of prostitutes. Twelfth house has been called the house of bed for this reason. 


The twelve houses represent human life in its totality. One must, however, abstain 
from passing value judgements about one house or the other. No aspect of life is good 
and no aspect is bad. Each house represents a multitude of opportunities and threats, a 
combination of strengths and weaknesses. Each house has different shades — some 
negative and some positive. Each house is subject to the influence of zodiac signs and 
planets. We are not going to discuss these influences here since the subject matter of 
this mini-book is philosophy of astrology and not astrology. The important part that 
needs to be underscored is that forces and elements influence each aspect of life but 
the effect that these influences finally bear varies from individual to individual. The 
same planetary influence on the same house can cause two opposite reactions in two 
persons. To that extent, each house seems to often represent two opposite extremes. 
For example, 12" house simultaneously represents an ascetic as well as a skirt-chaser. 
Whether one becomes an ascetic or a skirt-chaser depends on the individual 
concerned. It is not an exaggeration to say that the two extremes are two sides of the 
same coin. 


My attempt in Annexure IC to redefine a framework is intended to propose the 
foundations of a new (actually, it is ancient, but I guess it sounds better if I call it 
new. ©) philosophical paradigm for understanding astrology as well as life in 
general. Linear simplicity of Maslow’s triangle, though useful in some respects, is 
grossly inadequate to understand the complexity of human life. The two-dimensional 
matrix of dharm, arth, kam, and moksh combined with the concept of self, close ones 
and the world is proposed to help us understand our lives. 


As with any paradigm, the proposed paradigm will need significant research to better 
define the contours of the proposed matrix. Human life and mind are complex and 
ever changing. Astrology, psychology and philosophy need to work together to better 
understand various facets of life in the light of the proposed structure. 


5. Predicting The Future 


King Vikramathithya had many astrologers in his court. Of them, Mihir was an 
intellectual giant and the most renowned. The King had a son. Mihir cast the 
horoscope of the prince. Other astrologers also prepared the boy’s horoscope using 
different systems of calculation. 


All of them gave their opinion that the prince would have an anxious time at the age 
of 18. But Mihir alone predicted clearly and boldly that the price would be killed by 
a varaha (boar) at a particular hour on a particular date. He also said that no human 
remedies could avert the danger and save the prince from the jaws of death and that 
this unpleasant incident could not be averted. 


Years passed. The prince was maintaining robust health. His surroundings were well 
guarded even some months prior to the eventful day. On the morning of the fateful 
day, the king held a durbar. The king requested Mihir to verify his calculations and 
confirm whether the fateful hour would be 5.00 p.m. on that day as predicted 
previously. All had their own doubts, because every precaution had been taken by the 
king. No wild boar or wild animal could have any chance of gaining access to the 
prince’s palace, which was very well protected by a huge army of vigilant warriors. 
The prince was asked to take his seat on the seventh floor, and all the staircases were 
fully guarded. The king was confident that his son was safe. The king requested 
Mihir to reconsider deeply about his original prediction. 


Mihir said that there was no mistake and death from injuries inflicted by a boar was 
predicted from the prince’s horoscope without any shadow of doubt. 


At frequent intervals a warrior was asked to give information about the prince’s 
health. Reports that the prince was all right continued to come even after the 
stipulated time of 5pm. Mihir did not agree. He calmly told the king that the prince 
had died at the stipulated time and it would be advisable if they would verify. He 
further mentioned that the prince was lying a pool of blood. He persuaded the king to 
go and see for himself. The king went to the seventh floor of prince’s palace, where 
companions of the prince were playing games. On enquiry, he was told that the 
prince was playing with them all along and that only a little while ago, the prince had 
gone out to the adjacent open terrace. 


All quickly stepped into the open terrace. To their great grief, the prince was lying 
dead in a pool of blood. They found that his body was injured by iron claw of an 
artificial boar. When the palace was constructed, the architect had erected a flagstaff 
and fixed an artificial boar made of iron and mortar at the top of the palace. Just 
before 5.00 p.m., the prince felt uneasy. He went to the open terrace to have fresh air. 
Exactly at 5.00 p.m., a strong wind broke the post into two and the artificial boar fell 
down. It fell straight on the chest of the prince. The injury was so deep that the 
terrible loss of blood resulted in his immediate collapse. 


The king awarded the title “Varaha” to Mihir and thereafter he was known as 
Varahmihir. 


(Abridged from Prof. K.S. Krishnamurti, Fundamental Principles of Astrology, Krishnamurti 
Publications, Madras, 1987, p. 19-22) 


Astrologers often cite the above story to illustrate the finality of fate and futility of 
human actions. Krishnamurti, in his introducing remarks before the above story, says, 
“Able astrologers who have specialised in any branch of the science can boldly declare 
an event without any doubt and can go the extent of taking a challenge that a particular 
result must happen, mentioning also the time of the event.” 


A key point that is often missed by most astrologers about the above story is that, as 
reward for his accurate prediction, Mihir was given the title of Varah (boar). How 
would you like to be called a pig? Would you consider it an honour? In Hindu 
mythology, Lord Vishnu is supposed to have taken an incarnation in the form of a 
Varah. Yet, one finds no other instance of a learned man being ‘honoured’ by the title 
of Varah. It appears, to me, that the intellectual community did not approve of Mihir’s 
action of forecasting the death of the prince and as a lifelong disgrace, bestowed the 
insult of being called a Varah. 


Clairvoyance, sixth sense, intuition — these are qualities that some individuals, and 
probably even some animals, possess. (In mid-December 1981, a Nandi bull in Nashik 
told me that I would be the first person to travel abroad out of the small crowd 
assembled on a roadside. I did not even have a passport at that time. On 15 February 
1982 I was on a flight to Germany.) Probably, it is possible for ordinary mortals to 
practise spiritual training or sadhana or yoga or tapasya and achieve mystical powers 
or siddhis that enable one to do acts, which are impossible in normal course. Almost 
every religion in the world acknowledges such mystical powers. Without denying the 
existence of mystical powers, astrology, to develop as a science, must move away from 
mysticism and occult. 


Mysticism and occult do produce some astoundingly accurate predictions, but there are 
as many instances of their being totally off-mark. Estimates of accuracy of mystical 
predictions vary, but there is no mystic or seer, as far as I know, who can claim a hit 
rate of hundred per cent. Indian thinkers, most notably Gautam Buddha, had prohibited 
demonstration of mystical powers or siddhis. 


The prevalent view in Indian tradition has been that any intellectual or spiritual skills 
or abilities that one possesses or acquires must be used for the good of the society and 
not for going on a personal ego trip. Mihir’s accurate prediction of prince’s death did 
not do any social good; it would have only made the life of the royal family terribly 
miserable for eighteen long years. Would it not have been much better for the royal 
family to be ignorant and just face fate as it came? 


A few years ago, my neighbour, a young married healthy woman went to an astrologer. 
She was told that her death was certain within a year’s time. One can imagine her state. 
She even planned for her husband’s second marriage, after her death. Today, years 
later, she still dreads to think of the way she passed the year living through death. Even 
if certain death awaited her (in this case, it did not) at the end of the year, she would 
certainly have been better off enjoying life till finally death did strike. 


Astrological predictions, that claim to forecast any event that cannot be averted or 
altered by any human actions, serve no purpose except to pamper to the ego of the 
astrologer. Such predictions, in fact, damage individuals and society. 


In Indian tradition, the classic instance of shunning predictions is seen at the start of 
Mahabharat. Arjun was gripped with moral doubts and lost the will to fight just when 
he reached the battlefield. Krishn, accepted as an incarnation of God, delivered a long 
sermon, Shrimad Bhagwad Gita, to him about why he must fight. At no point in the 
sermon, Krishn predicts the result of war. Would it not have been much simpler for 
Krishn to just tell Arjun that he was sure to win the war and so he should go right 
ahead and fight! 


One finds an instance in Ramayan — Laxman had been grievously hurt in the war and 
Ram was in grief. Did Ram, an incarnation of God, not know that Laxman was not 
going to die? Surely, he could have got the services of an expert soothsayer like Mihir. 


If Ram and Krishn (and for that matter, even Jesus, Moses and Prophet Mohammed) 
did not depend on clairvoyance and let life take its own course, there is no reason for 
modem man to take recourse to advice of fortune-tellers. 


Astrology, on its part, must avoid the pitfall of fortune telling. Astrologers need to 
become more humble. They must accept their limitations. Astrology, as distinct from 
astronomy, arouses widespread popular interest since it has the potential to be useful to 
humanity. If fate was pre-decided and cast in stone, no human intervention would be 
possible — this would render astrology (in fact, all knowledge, sciences and even 
technology) redundant. 


Astrologers must begin with the premise that human life is unpredictable and that is 
exactly the way it must remain, given the present state of human development. On the 
other hand, astrologers ought to help modern man (or woman) to understand various 
influences that he (or she) is subjected to. They can and should help one understand 
one’s own mind as it grows through various phases of life. They can help by predicting 
phases, stages, factors, influences and forces that one’s life goes through. 


To sum up, let us look at what BV Raman wrote on 30-9-1941 in the Preface to his 
book: 


Can a science as astrology be ever untrue? The scientist takes too crudely a 
materialistic view of the whole nature of the universe. He contends that he may 
think of considering astrology as a fit subject for investigation provided the 
destiny factor is ruled out of it. This is simply absurd. There is nothing like 
destiny in astrology. The proper term to be used is Adrishta or that which is not 
seen. Astrology simply indicates and gives the greatest scope for the development 
of will-power, by means of which one can either counteract the evil indications or 
augment the favourable influences. 


6. Cosmic Influences on Man 


The most fundamental postulate underlying astrology is that planets and other bodies 
in the space influence human life. Indian thinkers saw a one-to-one correspondence 
between the human body and the cosmos. Yatha Pinday Tatha Brahmanday (As in 
body, same in cosmos) and Aham Brahmasmi (I am the cosmos) — both sum up the key 
philosophy that underlies Indian astrology. 


The concept of cosmos (or brahm) is integral and fundamental to almost all streams of 
Indian thought. Every single being (every entity that exists) is a manifestation of the 
brahm. Hinduism appears to have many gods but the term used is “dev” or “devta’”’. 
Anyone who gives is a “dev”. Fire, water, air — all elements of nature are dev. Even 
one’s parents and teachers get the status of dev. All planets are dev. Each dev is a facet 
of God, which is just another name for the cosmos or brahm. 


God, to a Christian (and even Jewish and Muslim) mind, is the creator who is distinct 
from his creation. In Christianity and Judaism, creation is a one-time activity. The 
duality of creator and creation is fundamental to many religions. In contrast, Indian 
thought is based on monism, which sees no schism between creator and creation. As 
per Indian thought, the cosmos has no beginning and no end. It only changes forms. 
The cosmos, viewed as a whole, is called brahm and our comprehension of cosmos, if 
it is true to the cosmic reality, is called sat. Each of us is a part of the totality of the 
cosmos. In that respect, each of us can claim to be God or brahm. 


A modern example will illustrate the point better. A car has many parts such as wheels, 
bonnet, seats, doors, door-handle, engine, carburettor, petrol tank, steering, suspension 
springs etc. Each part of the car is car. One can put one’s hand on the seat of the car 
and say that it is car. That is true only partially. The seat, by itself removed from the 
rest of the parts, is not car. Similarly each part is car when seen in conjunction with the 
rest, but is not car when removed from the whole. The word car is used for all the parts 
together. But if one were to collect all the parts and put them into a big box, one would 
not get a car. One needs to assemble the car using a set of rules and procedures. 
Without such an assembly, the parts do not become qualified to be called a car. Even 
after the assembly is complete, a moder car has to go through a process of image 
building through advertisements in print and electronic media. Image of the car is as 
much a part of the car as the seat or steering is. Viewed in this manner, it may appear 
to some that “car” is an abstract complex concept. Though, in reality car is not an 
abstract concept but is a real thing that we can see, feel and operate. 


A car is a finite entity, whose totality can be comprehended easily by human mind. In 
contrast, universe or cosmos is infinite in space as well as in time. It has no beginning 
and has no end either spatially or temporally. If comprehending holistically a finite 
thing like a car poses problems, the comprehension of the infinite cosmos is indeed 
difficult. 


But just because something is difficult, one cannot deny it. Modern man, in spite of all 
the space travel, has a tendency to imagine as if planet earth is duly packed in a 
polythene bag, well insulated from the rest of cosmos. Modern man does not see 
himself as an integral part of the universe. In the past few decades, humanity has been 
learning that it is part of the natural environment of earth, but comprehending oneself 
as a part of a bigger cosmic whole is still far away. Anyone who believes in astrology 
must see one’s own life in light of the holistic cosmic reality. 


Are you the one who sees all this talk of cosmic holistic reality as unscientific humbug 
and as superstition? In the twenty first century, man has already landed on the moon 
and is on the way to Mars and, may be even Jupiter. We know that most of these 
planets are barren with good amount of minerals, but nothing else. How can rocks and 
craters influence human mind and life? 


The above question is apparently scientific, but just about apparently so. Science rarely 
answers the question “HOW” with regard to fundamental phenomenon. More often 
than not, the question “HOW” is answered in science either by describing the 
phenomenon in complex technical jargon or by camouflaging in smart words, given 
the name of scientific laws. Let us look at the phenomenon of gravitation. Every school 
student memorizes Law of Gravitation, which states that two bodies attract each other 
with a force, which is directly proportional to the product of the masses and inversely 
proportional to the square of the distance. The law, in effect, states that a teacup in my 
hand has more intelligence than I have (by “I”, I mean my mental capabilities and not 
my inanimate body). My teacup is able to calculate the mass of that coffee mug in your 
kitchen and also the distance, even if you are on the other side of the globe. How does 
that happen? The answer is simple — by law of gravitation. Isn’t that smart? Well, it is 
scientific! 


No study of atomic physics or quantum mechanics can explain the process by which 
inanimate objects, even at the sub-atomic level, calculate masses and distances of all 
objects across the world. The only explanation for gravitation is empirical. We know 
that it does happen. We do not know, how it happens. Most of science is like that. 


Many scientific theories — whether it be quantum physics or Einstein’s theory of 
relativity — appear as ridiculous as theory of gravitation, when viewed from a 
hypercritical perspective. We accept these theories just because it is practical to do so. 
The same logic applies in case of astrology. 


If one can accept Law of Gravitation as scientific, one should have no problems in 
accepting that planets and other cosmic bodies influence human life. Even though, we 
do not know how cosmic influence happens, (just as we do not how force of gravity 
travels through space), we have prima facie sufficient evidence to show that the 
cosmos influences human beings. For thousands of years, in almost every part of the 
world, there have been astrologers who have been able to prove that astrology deserves 
to be taken seriously. It is no astrologer’s contention that more data should not be 
gathered about cosmic influences. In fact, the opposition to public funding of gathering 
data in a scientific manner about influence of cosmos on mankind comes from pseudo- 
scientists who claim to have a ‘rational scientific outlook’. 


One must add here that astrology needs to develop further in a scientific manner. The 
language and presentation of astrology has significant historical baggage. There is a 
need to reformulate theories of astrology in line with modern scientific temperament 
and methods. Just because, astrology, as a science, is not very well developed, should 
not be any reason for us to either discard astrology as unscientific or to deny the 
existence of cosmic influences. 


The purpose of mapping and understanding cosmic influences on human beings is akin 
to study of climate in meteorology. We know very well that meteorology is an under- 
developed science. Meteorologists are often unable to accurately forecast next week’s 
weather. Yet, one does not dismiss meteorology as unscientific. Meteorology provides 
advice, and people know how to use the advice and how not to use it. For example, 
storm warnings are useful and are heeded by even governments, though thunderstorms 
have a tendency to change course midway. But, even when weather forecast says 
sunny weather, one still carries an umbrella to office. 


Astrological forecasts of cosmic influences are more complex than meteorological 
forecasts. Meteorology deals with a very small number of variables — temperature, 
humidity, rainfall, snowfall, and wind velocity. Compare this to the complexity of 
parameters in twelve houses of a horoscope. 


When weather department forecasts light rain, we know that it is advisable to carry an 
umbrella. In case of astrological forecasts, the response is rarely so simple. Faced with 
different circumstances, human reactions vary enormously. In the face of adversity, 
one man collapses, while another one steels up. Astrology cannot predict responses. 
More about this in the next chapter! 


Not everyone carries an umbrella, when it rains! 
And everyone’s umbrella is not the same, even though the rain is no different. 


7. Fatalism, Determinism, Free Will And Astrology 


Issues of fatalism, determinism and free will have occupied western philosophers since 
Aristotle. Let us take a quick look at some extracts from The Stanford Encyclopedia of 
Philosophy. 


Fatalism is the view that we are powerless to do anything other that what we 
actually do. It may be argued for in various ways: by appeal to logical laws and 
metaphysical necessities; by appeal to the existence and nature of God; by appeal 
to causal determinism. When argued for in the first way, it is commonly called 
"Logical fatalism" (or, in some cases, "Metaphysical fatalism"); when argued for 
in the second way, it is commonly called "Theological fatalism". When argued for 
in the third way it is not now commonly referred to as "fatalism" at all. 


38 38 ok 


Aristotle is in no doubt that not everything that happens, happens of necessity. He 
accepts indeed (19a23-5) that "What is, necessarily is, when it is; and what is not, 
necessarily is not, when it is not." But he goes on to say, "But not everything that 
is, necessarily is; and not everything that is not, necessarily is not." 


38 2k ok 


A problem which has been much discussed by philosophers, at least since the 
time of Augustine (354-430), is whether divine omniscience is compatible with 
free will, and in particular with our having the power to do other than we do. 


One way of arguing for this incompatibility is due to Pike. (Pike 1965) 


Let us suppose that being omniscient involves being infallible, and 
believing that p if and only if it is true that p. 


Let us also suppose that God existed in 1900, and that omniscience is part 
of his essence. 


Now, suppose that Jones mowed his lawn on 1/1/2000. 
Then God believed in 1900 that Jones would mow his lawn on 1/1/2000. 
Did Jones have the power to refrain from mowing his lawn? 


No. Because that would mean either (1) that he had the power to do 
something which would have brought it about that God had a false belief 
in 1900, or (2) that he had the power to do something which would have 
brought it about that God did not believe in 1900 that Jones would mow 
his lawn on 1/1/2000, or (3) that he had the power to do something which 
would have brought it about that God did not exist in 1900. And each of 
these alternatives is impossible. 


Aristotle mentions, as a corollary of the conclusion that everything that happens, 
happens of necessity, that "there would be no need to deliberate or to take trouble 
(thinking that if we do this, this will happen, but if we do not, if will not)." 
(Aristotle, De Interpretatione, 18b31-3) 


This thought was spelt out in what was known as "the Idle Argument" (Bobzien 
1998, Section 5). It went like this: 


If it is fated that you will recover from this illness, then, regardless of 
whether you consult a doctor or you do not consult a doctor you will 
recover. 


But also, if it is fated that you will not recover from this illness, then, 
regardless of whether you consult a doctor or you do not consult a doctor 
you will not recover. 


But either it is fated that you will recover from this illness or you will not 
recover. 


Therefore it is futile to consult a doctor. 


Source for above extracts: 

Rice, Hugh, "Fatalism", The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy (Winter 2002 Edition), 
Edward N. Zalta (ed.), URL = 
<http://plato.stanford.edu/archives/win2002/entries/fatalism/>. 


Causal determinism is, roughly speaking, the idea that every event is necessitated 
by antecedent events and conditions together with the laws of nature. 


38 38 ok 


In order to get started we can begin with a loose and (nearly) all-encompassing 
definition as follows: 


Determinism: The world is governed by (or is under the sway of) 
determinism if and only if, given a specified way things are at a time t, 
the way things go thereafter is fixed as a matter of natural law. 


The italicized phrases are elements that require further explanation and 
investigation, in order for us to gain a clear understanding of the concept of 
determinism. 


28 28 ok 


The roots of the notion of determinism surely lie in a very common philosophical 
idea: the idea that everything can, in principle, be explained, or that everything 
that is, has a sufficient reason for being and being as it is, and not otherwise. In 
other words, the roots of determinism lie in what Leibniz named the Principle of 
Sufficient Reason. 


28 ok ok 


Fatalism is easily disentangled from determinism, to the extent that one can 
disentangle mystical forces and gods' wills and foreknowledge (about specific 
matters) from the notion of natural/causal law. 


In a looser sense, however, it is true that under the assumption of determinism, 
one might say that given the way things have gone in the past, all future events 
that will in fact happen are already destined to occur. 


38 38 ok 


There have even been studies of paradigmatically “chancy” phenomena such as 
coin-flipping, which show that if starting conditions can be precisely controlled 
and outside interferences excluded, identical behavior results. Most of these bits 
of evidence for determinism no longer seem to cut much ice, however, because of 
faith in quantum mechanics and its indeterminism. Indeterminist physicists and 
philosophers are ready to acknowledge that macroscopic repeatability is usually 
obtainable, where phenomena are so large-scale that quantum stochasticity gets 
washed out. But they would maintain that this repeatability is not to be found in 
experiments at the microscopic level, and also that at least some failures of 
repeatability (in your hard drive, or coin-flipping experiments) are genuinely due 
to quantum indeterminism, not just failures to isolate properly or establish 
identical initial conditions. 


28 28 ok 


There is a long tradition of compatibilists arguing that freedom is fully compatible 
with physical determinism. Hume went so far as to argue that determinism is a 
necessary condition for freedom -- or at least, he argued that some causality 
principle along the lines of “same cause, same effect” is required. 


Source for above extracts: 

Hoefer, Carl, "Causal Determinism", The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy (Spring 
2004 Edition), Edward N. Zalta (ed.), URL = 
<http://plato.stanford.edu/archives/spr2004/entries/determinism-causal/>. 


"Free Will" is largely a philosophical term of art for a particular sort of capacity 
of rational agents to choose a course of action from among various alternatives. 
Most philosophers suppose that the concept of free will is very closely connected 
to the concept of moral responsibility. Acting with free will, on such views, is just 
to satisfy the metaphysical requirement on being responsible for one's action. 
(Clearly, there will also be epistemic conditions on responsibility as well, such as 
being aware -- or failing that, being culpably unaware -- of relevant alternatives to 
one's action and of the alternatives! moral significance.) But the significance of 
free will is not exhausted by its connection to moral responsibility. Free will also 
appears to be a condition on desert for one's accomplishments (why sustained 
effort and creative work are praiseworthy); on the autonomy and dignity of 
persons; and on the value we accord to love and friendship. (See Kane, 1996, 
81ff.) 


38 38 ok 


The minimalist account of free will is as the ability to select a course of action as 
a means of fulfilling some desire. David Hume, for example, defines liberty as "a 
power of acting or of not acting, according to the determination of the will." 


38 28 ok 


Philosophers since Plato have commonly distinguished the ‘animal’ and ‘rational’ 
parts of our nature, with the latter implying a great deal more psychological 
complexity. Our rational nature includes our ability to judge some ends as ‘good’ 
or worth pursuing and value them even though satisfying them may result in 
considerable unpleasantness for ourselves. 


38 38 ok 


A large portion of Western philosophical writing on free will was and is written 
within an overarching theological framework, according to which God is the 
ultimate source and sustainer of all else. Some of these thinkers draw the 
conclusion that God must be a sufficient, wholly determining cause for everything 
that happens; all suppose that every creaturely act necessarily depends on the 
explanatorily prior, cooperative activity of God. It is also presumed that human 
beings are free and responsible (on pain of attributing evil in the world to God 
alone, and so impugning His perfect goodness). Hence, those who believe that 
God is omni-determining typically are compatibilists with respect to freedom and 
(in this case) theological determinism. 


38 38 ok 


Source for above extracts: 

O'Connor, Timothy, "Free Will", The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy (Spring 2002 
Edition), Edward N. Zalta (ed.), URL = 
<http://plato.stanford.edu/archives/spr2002/entries/freewill/>. 


Fatalism seems to be entailed by infallible foreknowledge by the following 
informal line of reasoning: 


For any future act you will perform, if some being infallibly believed in 
the past that the act would occur, there is nothing you can do now about 
the fact that he believed what he believed since nobody has any control 
over past events; nor can you make him mistaken in his belief, given that 
he is infallible. Therefore, there is nothing you can do now about the fact 
that he believed in a way that cannot be mistaken that you would do what 
you will do. But if so, you cannot do otherwise than what he believed you 
would do. And if you cannot do otherwise, you will not perform the act 
freely. 


ok ok 


The theological fatalist argument just given creates a dilemma because many 
people have thought it important to maintain both (1) there is a deity who 
infallibly knows the entire future, and (2) human beings have free will in the 
strong sense usually called libertarian. But the theological fatalist argument seems 
to show that (1) and (2) are incompatible; the only way consistently to accept (2) 
is to deny (1). Those philosophers who think there is a way to consistently 
maintain both (1) and (2) are called compatibilists about infallible foreknowledge 
and human free will. 


Source for above extracts: 

Zagzebski, Linda, "Foreknowledge and Free Will", The Stanford Encyclopedia of 
Philosophy (Fall 2004 Edition), Edward N. Zalta (ed.), URL = 
<http://plato.stanford.edu/archives/fall2004/entries/free-will-foreknowledge/>. 


All arguments on fatalism, determinism, and free will in western philosophy have one 
or more of the following three key epicentres: 


a) Abstract metaphysical logic 

b) Existence of God as an omniscient Supreme Being 

Cc) Physical sciences where laws of nature determine cause-effect relations 
In addition, almost every philosopher wants to create a system whereby human beings 
remain committed to moral life. So, more pages have been written on “the question of 


how the conclusion (of fatalism) may be avoided as in the question of whether it is 
true” (Rice 2002). 


It is obvious that astrology has no relation to the development of philosophies of 
fatalism and determinism in Western world. Roots of fatalism and determinism lie on 
one hand, in Greek thinkers who were probably just working out some dazzling 
arguments to justify the common beliefs at that time; on the other hand in Christian 
concept of omniscient Supreme Being; and lastly in Newtonian image of physical 
sciences. 


In today’s world metaphysics stands discredited; thinkers need not bother about 
Church breathing down their neck; and scientists have become more humble than their 
counterparts of early twentieth century — probability and unpredictability were the 
buzzwords of second half of twentieth century. As we move into the twenty first 
century, biology takes the centre stage and physics gives way. It is interesting to read 
what a physicist, Erwin Schrodinger said six decades ago about life: 


To the physicist I wish to emphasize that in my opinion, and contrary to the 
opinion upheld in some quarters, quantum indeterminacy plays no biologically 
relevant role in them, except perhaps by enhancing their purely accidental 
character in such events as meiosis, natural and X-ray-induced mutation and so on 
—and this is in any case obvious and well recognized. 


For the sake of argument, let me regard this as a fact, as I believe every unbiased 
biologist would, if there were not the well-known, unpleasant feeling about 
‘declaring oneself to be a pure mechanism’. For it is deemed to contradict Free 
Will as is warranted by direct introspection. But immediate experiences in 
themselves, however various and disparate they be, are logically incapable of 
contradicting each other. 


So let us see whether we cannot draw the correct, non-contradictory conclusion 
from the following two premises: (i) My body functions as a pure mechanism 
according to the Laws of Nature. (ii) Yet I know, by incontrovertible direct 
experience, that I am directing its motions, of which I foresee the effects, that may 
be fateful and all-important, in which case I feel and take full responsibility for 
them. The only possible inference from these two facts is, I think, that I — I in the 
widest meaning of the word, that is to say, every conscious mind that has 
ever said or felt 'I' — am the person, if any, who controls the 'motion of the 
atoms' according to the Laws of Nature. 


Within a cultural milieu (Kulturkreis) where certain conceptions (which once had 
or still have a wider meaning amongst other peoples) have been limited and 
specialized, it is daring to give to this conclusion the simple wording that it 
requires. In Christian terminology to say: 'Hence I am God Almighty’ sounds both 
blasphemous and lunatic. But please disregard these connotations for the moment 
and consider whether the above inference is not the closest a biologist can get to 
proving also their God and immortality at one stroke. 


In itself, the insight is not new. The earliest records to my knowledge date back 
some 2,500 years or more. From the early great Upanishads the recognition 
ATHMAN = BRAHMAN (the personal self equals the omnipresent, all- 
comprehending eternal self) was in Indian thought considered, far from being 
blasphemous, to represent the quintessence of deepest insight into the happenings 
of the world. 


The striving of all the scholars of Vedanta was, after having learnt to pronounce 
with their lips, really to assimilate in their minds this grandest of all thoughts. 
Again, the mystics of many centuries, independently, yet in perfect harmony with 
each other (somewhat like the particles in an ideal gas) have described, each of 
them, the unique experience of his or her life in terms that can be condensed in 
the phrase: DEUS FACTUS SUM (I have become God). To Western ideology the 
thought has remained a stranger, in spite of Schopenhauer and others who stood 
for it and in spite of those true lovers who, as they look into each other's eyes, 
become aware that their thought and their joy are numerically one — not merely 
similar or identical; but they, as a rule, are emotionally too busy to indulge in 
clear thinking, which respect they very much resemble the mystic. 


Schrodinger, Erwin, “WHAT IS LIFE? The Physical Aspect of the Living Cell, Based on 
lectures delivered under the auspices of the Dublin Institute for Advanced Studies at 
Trinity College, Dublin, in February 1943” First published 1944. Emphasis added. 


Schrodinger talks of an “I” as distinct from the atoms that make up the cells of human 
body. It is this “I” that controls the atoms within the limits imposed by laws of nature. 
Is this “TI” free? Yes and no! “I” is bound by the limits imposed by laws of nature, but 
within the said limits, “I’’ is free. 


Indian astrology is based on the above truth. Laws of nature determine the influence of 
cosmos (or planets and stars) on a man’s life. But, this influence is not deterministic. 
Gravity pulls everything down and yet man has learnt to fly. The ability and wish to fly 
does not mean a denial of gravity. One cannot build an aeroplane that flies till one 
takes the force of gravity into account. 


Purpose of astrology is to help one understand the influence of cosmos, as it applies to 
the person concerned. The cosmic influences on a person are a function of (a) one’s 
horoscope, which is a cumulative summary of decisions and responses of the person in 
past lives and (b) planetary positions at any particular time. One’s response to the 
influences is one’s individual decision. The responses have a cumulative effect. At any 
particular point of time, a person is subject to the limits imposed by cumulative effect 
of the decisions that one took in the past (this life as well as past lives). Let me explain 
this with an example. 


Many years ago, my friend Surjit (name changed), a Sikh, came to me with a strange 
problem. He was married and had a business, which was not doing badly. He was not 
giving sufficient time to either his family or his business. He was on the point of 
becoming an alcoholic. On some days, he would get sick of drinking. But even on such 
days, instead of spending time at his shop or home, he would go to the gurudwara 
(Sikh temple) and spend hours there. He was getting sick of his own life, but did not 
know how and where to begin. He wanted to run away from it all. When he was in 
early teens, he had run away from home just because his parents stopped him from 
seeing a movie. He had spent more than ten years on streets across the country. He 
returned home and had settled down in life. But, now he was afraid that he was going 
back to the life of a tramp. He loved his wife and had no problems with her. She 
wanted him to be a normal person. 


After listening to his problem, I took him to another friend, an astrologer, who 
fortunately, understood his problem. Surjit was told that there was no way that he 
could lead a normal life and remain sane. A normal routine life will be just too 
disturbing for him and will either drive him mad or make him run away from 
everything. Surjit was advised that the best option for him was to realize his own 
nature and to turn his life towards a positive direction. He could either become an 
alcoholic or drug addict or sex maniac or a deeply religious person. The position was 
also explained to Surjit’s wife. Surjit decided to turn towards religion. He started 
spending more and more time at the gurudwara. It has been more than ten years since 
then. Now, Surjit gets up in the morning at 2 a.m. and goes for early morning prayers. 
He spends about ten hours a day in religious duties. For about fifteen days a month, he 
travels to other cities to perform services at various religious functions. He has given 
up alcohol as well as non-vegetarian food. He avoids even tea and coffee. It is rare to 
find him at any of his shops. Surprisingly, in the last ten years, his business has grown 
enormously. He still ignores his wife and family, but they understand. 


Astrology explained the disturbing influences that Surjit was subject to. Astrology did 
not predict any particular course, but helped him understand the limits that nature had 
imposed upon him. It was in Surjit’s interest to understand the limits and make 
modifications in his life. 


Indian and Chinese attitude to nature is simple — Do not try to bang your head against 
the wall, look around and you will find at least one door. Astrology can help one see 
the wall and can also make it easier for one to search for a door, may be many doors. 
Beyond that astrology does not, or rather should not, have any role. 


While the standard advice is to not bang one’s head against a wall, there have been 
men and women who did not bang their head against steel walls, but developed tools to 
break the walls and broke them. That is human ingenuity — creating doors and paths 
where none existed some time ago. Given an option of doors, the choice to walk 
through a particular door is of the individual concerned. Once a person walks through a 
door, he foregoes some others. All his subsequent options are determined by this 
decision. 


Understanding options available today, tomorrow and day-after-tomorrow — that sums 
up the essence of astrology. Is that determinism or fatalism or free will? Who bothers? 
Metaphysicists, who indulged in long abstract arguments without ever touching reality, 
have been buried long ago. Let them lie in peace, while we act as per advice and 
guidance based on astrological knowledge to the extent that it helps us live, grow and 
prosper as individuals and as social beings. 


Annexure 1A 


What The Houses Represent 


By Bangalore Venkata Raman 


1* House Beginning of life, childhood, health, environment, personality, 
physical body, and character. 


2" house Family, face, right eye, food, wealth, literary gift, manner and source 
of death, self-acquisition, and optimism. 


3" house Brothers and sisters, intelligence, cousins and other immediate 
relations. 
4" house Peace of Mind, home life, mother, conveyances, house property, 


landed and ancestral properties. 


5" house Children, grandfather, intelligence, emotions, and fame. 

6" house Debts, diseases, enemies, miseries, sorrows, illness and 
disappointments. 

7" house Wife, husband, marriage, urinary organs, marital happiness, sexual 
diseases, business partner, diplomacy, talent, energies, and general 
happiness 

8" house Longevity, legacies and gifts and unearned wealth, cause of death, 


disgrace, degradation, and details pertaining to death. 


9" house Father, righteousness, preceptor, grandchildren, intuition, religion, 
sympathy, fame, charities, leadership, journeys, and communications 
with spirits. 


10" house Occupation, profession, temporal honours, foreign travels, self- 
respect, knowledge and dignity, and means of livelihood. 


11" house Means of gains, elder brother, and freedom from misery 


12" house Losses, expenditure, waste, extravagance, sympathy, divine 
knowledge, Moksha, and the state after death. 


Source: Bangalore Venkata Raman, How to Judge a Horoscope, Volume One, Motilal Banarsidass 
Publishers Pvt. Ltd, Delhi, 1992, p.4 


Annexure 1B 


What The Houses Represent 


By Prof. K.S. Krishnamurti 


a Lagnam: Adya (first); Kalpa, Udhayam (ascending); Janma (birth); Seersea 
ouse (head); Dhanus (physical body); Anga (limb); Deham (physical features); 
Varthamana (living or livelihood) 

Artha (wealth); Bukthi (food); Dhakshakshi (right eye); Annapana (whether one 


nd 
2™ house eats or drinks); Asya (face); Nayana (eye); Pathrika (document); vak (speech); 
kutumbha (family); mangalam (auspicious, happy end); sva (property) 

«d Dhairya (courage, firmness); Duschikya (bad thoughts); Uras (breast); Karna 
3™ house (ear), especially right ear; Vikrama Prakrama (prowess); Bhratru Sahodhara 
(brother or sister); Virya (heroism); Pourusham (mental strength) 
th Graha (house); Vesma (home); Kshiti (land); Bandhu (relation); Matri (mother); 

4” house Vahana (vehicle); Sukha (happiness); Ambu (water); Vidya (learning) 


th Rajanka (Sovereign’s mark); Kara (tax or toll); Buddhi (intellect); Tanaya 
5” house (children); Putra (son); Jatara (belly); Sruti (vedic knowledge); Smriti (traditional 
law); poorvapunya (virtuous acts previously done) 

th Rina (debt); Asthra (arms); Kshata (wounds); Roga (disease); Sathru (enemy); 
6” house Dwesha, Vairi; Agha (sin); Dushkritya (a wicked act); Beethi (fear); Avajna 
(humiliation); Bhaya (danger) 
Saptama; Jamitra; Chittottha (desire); Kama; Dvuna (love); Madha (passion); 
Gamana (cohabitation); Astha (setting); Advan (a way or road); Marga (way); 
Loka (public); Kalathra (wife or husband); Pathni; Pathi; Kalathrasampat 
(dowry) 
Mangayasthana; Ashta (eight); Ayus (life, longevity); Adhi (mental pain); 
Parabahava (defeat or insult); Klesha (sorrow); Apavadha (scandal, ill-repute); 
Marana (death); Asuchi (impurity); Vinga (obstacle, impediment) 
Nava (ninth); Acharya (guru or preceptor); Pithru (father); Subham (auspicious); 
Poorva Bhagyam (previous luck); Pooja (worship); Tapas (penance); Dharma 
(virtue); Pauthra (grandson); Japa (prayer); Daiva Upasana (spiritual initiation); 
Arya vamsa (noble family); Bhagya (fortune) 
Madhya; Meshurana; Jeevana (livelihood); Rajaspadada (kingdom); Sat (good); 
Kriya (work); Vyapara (commerce, trade, business); Jaya (success); Aspada (rank 
or position); Achara (good conduct); Mana (honour); Krilyam (sacrifice); Agya; 
Ajna (command); Guna (quality); Artha (wealth); Gamana (gait); Gnana 
(wisdom); Pravrithi (inclination); Karma (inclination) 
Labha (profit or gain); Aya (income or all kinds of receipts); Agamana 
(acquisition); Apti (gain); Prapthi (what is unto one); Kama (desire, passion); 
Siddhi (fulfilment of one’s desire); Vaibhava (wealth or riches); Slaghyata 
(veneration, commendation); Sarasa (anything juicy or succulent) 
Anthyabha (last house); Rippha; lopasthana (house of disappearance); Bandha 
(bondage); Vigama Vyaya (loss, negation); Savana (bed); Papa (sin); Daridrya 
(poverty, penury); Suchaha (tale bearer, backbiter); Kshaya (loss, decline); 
Dukkha (misery); Vam Nayana (left eye); Anghri (leg) 


7" house 


8" house 


i 
9" house 


10” house 


11" house 


12" house 


Source: Prof. K.S. Krishnamurti, Fundamental Principles of Astrology, Krishnamurti Publications, 
Madras, 1987, p. 186-227 


Annexure 1C 


HTd 


Houses 


BSS IS Ba 


The close ones 


wd 
The world 


Dharm 


312f 


Arth 


Kam 


Moksh 


Personality, Outer 
Mask 


og fs 


2nd 


Money & Possessions 


Sal 


3rd 


Communications, 
Information 


Wd 


Ath 


Unconscious, 
Emotional, Intuitive 


US / AM 


5th 


Children, Pleasure, 
Joy, Fun, Play 


a 


6th 


Servants, Skills, 
Competence 


ay / 


7th 


Marriage & Intimate 
Relations 


oa / eal 


8th 
Death, Sex & Occult 


Va / AS 


9th 


Travel, Breaking of 
routines 


oy 


10th 


Career, Reputation, 
Social Position 


my 


11th 


Personal Goals, 
Friends, Future 


am / a 


12th 


Troubles, Self 
transcendence 


ay 


ad 


Elements & Zodiac Signs 


Annexure 2 


Youd wd 
The close The world 
ones 
FIRE ARIES LEO SAGGITARIUS 
Ruler-Mars; Ruler- Sun; Ruler- Jupiter; 
Fall- Venus Fall- Saturn/ Uranus Fall- Mercury 
Warrior, Pioneer, King. Performer, Gypsy, Student, 
Dare-devil, Survivor Child, Clown Philosopher 
EARTH TAURUS VIRGO CAPRICORN 
Ruler- Venus; Ruler- Mercury; Ruler- Saturn; 
Fall- Mars/ Pluto Fall- Jupiter/ Neptune Fall- Moon 
Earth-spirit, Servant, Martyr, Hermit, Father, 
Musician, Silent One | Perfectionist, Analyst Prime-minister 
AIR GEMINI LIBRA AQUARIUS 
Ruler- Mercury, Fall- Ruler- Venus; Ruler- Saturn/ 
Jupiter Fall- Mars Uranus; Fall- Sun 
Witness, Teacher, Lover, Artist, Peace- Genius, 
Story-teller. Journalist maker Revolutionary, Truth- 
sayer, Scientist 
WATER CANCER SCORPIO PISCES 


Ruler- Moon; 
Fall- Saturn 


Mother, Healer, 
Invisible 


Ruler- Mars/ Pluto; 
Fall- Venus 


Detective, Sorcerer, 
Hypnotist 


Ruler- Jupiter/ 
Neptune; Fall- 
Mercury 


Mystic, Poet, 
Dreamer, Face- 
dancer 


a 


Annexure 3 


Planets 
Sun Moon Moons of Uranus 
Ia Sell ; 
Jupiter 
Ruling Over- | Ruling Over- Ruling Over- 
Sat Brahma Leo Cancer Ruling Over- Aquarius 
Falling in- Falling in- Falling in- Falling in- 
Aquarius Capricorn Leo 
Zul fas] Mercury Earth Jupiter Neptune 
Ruling Over- | Ruling Over- | Ruling Over- | Ruling Over- 
Raj Vishnu | Gemini, Virgo Saget., Pisces Pisces 
Falling in- 
Falling in- Falling in- Falling in- 
Saggit., Pisces Gemini, Virgo Virgo 
r rn Pl 
aa AegT Venus Mars Satu uto 
Ruling Over- | Ruling Over- | Ruling Over- | Ruling Over- 
Tam Mahesh | Taurus, Libra | Aries, Scorpio | Capri, Aquar. Scorpio 


Falling in- 
Aries, Scorpio 


Falling in- 
Taurus, Libra 


Falling in- 
Cancer, Leo 


Falling in- 
Taurus 


About The Author 


Anil Chawla by name 
Engineer by qualification 
Philosopher by vocation 

Teacher by aptitude 
Entrepreneur by profession 
Consultant by occupation 
Businessman by accident 
Accountant by necessity 
Marketing man by experience 
Lawyer by studies 
Translator by demand 
Author by will 


Born in 1959 at Delhi, India. 

Joined IIT Bombay in 1975 

Active in politics since 1977 

Worked with Janata Party and later with Bharatiya Janata Party 
Too humble to push himself; too outspoken for sycophancy 
Hence, unfit for politics in India of today 

Hence, never joined any party 


He is an independent thinker who is like a loving child 


