ANNUAL HOROSCOPE 
(Varshaphala or Tajak) 
Effective Predictive Techniques 


BY 
M. S. Mehta 


GUIDE & EDITOR 
K. N. Rao 


p- 110 & 111 missing 


Dedication [ 


In our religious scriptures great importance has been 
given to the role of Guru. 

It has been clearly stated that itis not possible to find 
salvation or for that matter achieve any success without 
proper guidance and help ofa Guru. 

In the journey of life mundane success is as 
important as progress in spiritual field. 

With my exalted Jupiter in the 11“house I had been 
very lucky that I had met two very important personalities 
in my life. While I was in service I had the good fortune of 
serving under Shri Romesh Bhandari who took keen 
interest both in me and in my family and furthered our 
interests and guided me in all walks of life. He is a great 
benefactor and anoble person under whom | thrived ina 
successful career. Working under him was a great 
pleasure and a privilege. I could not have found a better 
person and a better boss to work with. 

After retirement from service it was again my privilege 
to have met Shri KN Rao who kindled the light of 
spiritualism in me and is guiding me to the Path Divine. 
Under his guidance I not only learned the divine science 
of Astrology but also became a factor in conveying his noble 
ideas to alarge number of students. 

In all humility I dedicate this book to my Gurus, Shri 
Romesh Bhandari and Shri KN Rao. May God bless them 
with a long life so that the mortal persons like me may 
bask under the sunshine, glory and wisdom, which both 
of them represent in plenty in their own fields! 


M.S. Mehta 


Acknowledgement I 


This book on Varshaphala or Annual Horoscope just 
happened. Mr. K. N. Rao, as usual, was in a teaching 
mood and told me some new secret techniques 
known only to him in interpreting the annual charts. 
When these rules were applied to various horoscopes 
the results were amazing and highly accurate. This 
aroused my interest and | started working on various 
aspects of the Varshaphala. On the basis of these 
interpretations I made many precise predictions 
relating to various aspects of life like prospects for 
jobs, onslaught of sickness, travel abroad and 
financial gains in a particular year. This also made 
me interested in writing a book on the subject which 
Mr. Rao agreed and provided me with necessary 
guidance. 

One of my good friends, a very senior officer in 
Indian Foreign had died a tragic death in a road 
accident. Out of curiosity I applied the rules taught 
by Rao to his annual horoscope for the year of 
accident and was awe struck by the results. The 
annual chart was clearly showing the impending 
fatal disaster - there was no question of doubt about 
it. I bowed my head to the great master in utter 
humility. It suddenly dawned on me as to how our 
destinies were being controlled by powers greater 
than ourselves. All this must have some meaning, 
realization of God and belief in the operation of Law of 
Karma. 

This made me realize that Varshaphala can be a 
very powerful tool for prediction and my future 
researches should be concentrated on this subject. 

I have no words to thank Mr. Rao for the keen 
interest shown by him in my writing this book on 


the subject and giving me all possible help and 
guidance. 

I am also grateful to my colleague G.N. Saxena 
who provided me help in reading the book at 
manuscript stage and offering valuable suggestions. 
He is co-authoring this book with me in publishing its 
Hindi edition. Ritu Shukla, with her tireless zeal 
volunteered to translate the book in Hindi and 
lightened my burden by pointing out printing errors. 
My prophecy is that with her zeal, keenness to learn 
and her dedication for hard wok she would be a 
success story one-day. 

I am also thankful to Narinder Sagar and his 
extremely well mannered son Saurabh for offering to 
publish this book at a record-breaking speed inspite of 
their having many commitments. 


M.S. Mehta 


CONTENTS 


ACKNOWLEDGEMENT 

Foreword by KN Rao 

Chapter I :Varshaphal.....................00...0.0000008. 1 to 6 
Definition of Varshaphala or Tajak System 

Its main features. 

How it is subordinate to the birth chart, 

Planetary aspects, sex of Planets. 

Muntha, Lord of Year, Dasha. 

Yogas, Sahms etc. 


Basic Considerations. 

Various Forms of Charts. 

Definitions of Ascendant, Zodiac. 

Signs, Planets, Motion of Planets. 

Planets and their Signification. 

Nakshatras and Vargas. 

Chapter III: Casting of Annual Horoscope ....41 to 53 
Solar Return or Varsha Parvesh. 

Concept of Completed Years. 

Constant for Years or Dhruvanka. 

Preparation of Annual Chart. 

Example Horoscopes. 

ChapterIV: Muntha.......00.00.00..00.0.0..00.00.00.04: 54 to 65 
Definition of Muntha. 

Its importance in Prediction. 

Its good and bad places in horoscope. 

Result of Muntha with different planets. 

Chapter V: Planetary Strengthor Balas... .. | 66 to 100 
How to measure strength of Planets. 

Dwadasvargiya Bala. 

Relation between Planets and Vargas. 

Pancha Vargiya Bala How to Calculate 

and its importance. 

Vishwa Bala and its importance. 


Chapter VI: Various Dashas used............ 101 to 117 
Various Dashas used in timing events in Varshaphala. 
Vimshotari Mudda Dasha. 

Sub periods in Mudda Dasha. 

Yogini Dasha and its Calculation. 

Patyayani Dasha and its Sub Periods. 

Chapter VII: Lord ofthe Year and its 
Concept... cccccceeeeee 118 to 127 
Contenders for Lord of the Year. 

PanchAdhikarisor Five Office Holders. 

Criterion for Selection of Lord ofthe Year. 

Moon as Lord of the Year. 

Strength ofthe Year Lord and its importance. 

Result of Various Planets as Year Lord. 

Chapter III: Planetary Yogas in Tajak 

RA 2) | Re 92 aR 128 to 145 
Sixteen important Yogas, Iqbal Yoga, Induvar Yoga. 
Ithasala, Ishrapha and other Yogas. 

Orbs ofInfluence or deeptamsha. 

Various Types of Ishrapha Yoga 

Nakata Yoga, Yamaya Yoga, Manau Yoga. 

Kamboola Yoga- Ghairi Kamboola Yoga. 

Khallasar Yoga, Rudda Yoga. 

Dushaphali Kuttha Yoga, Dutthodattari Yoga. 

Tambira Yoga, Kuttha Yoga and Durupha Yoga. 

All Yogas explained through example Horoscopes. 
ChapterIX DC: Sahams.......................... 146 to 165 
Their definition and how to calculate them. 

Strength ofthe Sahams their use and importance. 
Chapter X :TriPatakiChakra................... 166to 170 
Its definition. How to construct Tripathi Chakra. 

Its importance. 

Chapter XI: Some Rules of Prediction ..... 171 to 175 
How to predict Annual Horoscope. 

Some basic principles. 

Auspicious and evil combination. 

Disease and death giving combinations. 


Chapter XII: Dasha Interpretation.......... 176 to 179 
Dasha of Ascendant and other Planets. 
Chapter XII: House wise interpretation of 


Annual Horoscope.......................00000 cece 180to 194 
Chapter XIV: Result of Planets in 

Different Houses............................0.00c cee 194 to 214 
Chapter XV: Timing ofEvents..................: 215to251 


Important Considerations. 

Rise and Fall of Political Parties. 

Years of Victory and Glory. 

Judging evil results like accidents and death. 
Predicting Marriage and Birth of Children. 
Tracing Rise and fall in Career. 


Varshaphala 


This Brilliant Book 


It was a wish and dream of mine that an excellent 
book on Tajak or annual horoscopes as it has been done 
by Muslim astrologers, particularly of Tajakistan where 
this branch of astrology seems to have developed, should 
be written either by me or someone who knows how 
to handle the subtle points of synthesis between the birth 
horoscope and,the annual horoscope. 

Mr. M.S.Mehta has made a great beginning in this 
direction and what I expect him to do is to follow it up 
with some brilliant researches which have yet to come 
up. While I have been busy with Jaimini in which I am 
able to focus on the immediate as is generally done 
through Tajak and Prashna, I still wanted someone to 
do some original work on Tajak as has never been 
done before. To some extent, this beginning made by 
Sri Mehta answers that need but then he must not 
rest on his laurels and must proceed to show through 
intensive researches various aspects of man's life 
within the shortest span of one year of his achieve- 
ments or failures, ecstasies or agonies. 

Tajak seems to have gained its importance in the 
middle ages, when Muslim invaders made use of it for 
military exploits, many of them gory, barbarian yet so 
spectacular as to become historic deeds of cruelties. 
It is now well known to many people that Timur; the 
unconquered military Mongol got his name on 
astrological basis. 

I am quoting here from page 14 from the Twilight 
of the Sultanate by Kishori Lal Sharan (Munshiram 
Manoharlal Publishers Pvt. Ltd. revised edition 1980) 
about what he wrote about the Amir Timur also. 
described as Timurlane. 

"Amir Timur Gurgan, who led a terrible campaign" 


Introduction 


into Hindustan in AD 1398-99, and dealt a mortal blow 
to the Sultanate of Delhi was born on Tuesday, 9 April 
“1336 (25 Sh'abab, 736 H) in the town of Sabzwar about 
40 miles south of Samarkand. His father was Amir 
Turghay, chief of the Gurgan branch of the Barlas tribe, 
and his mother was Taghina Khatun. To belong to the 
Barlas tribe was no little honour, yet his extractions has 
been traced back to the fabulous virgin Alankua, reputed 
to be the common ancestries of Chingiz and Timur. Also, 
since he won many great victories, bis birth was considered 
by historians to have taken place under the conjunction of 
auspicious planets, in consequence of which they 
associated with him the title of Sahib-i-Qiran or Master 
of the Conjunctions." 

(in a footnote, Qiran is explained thus: 

"Qiran indicates, in the astrology of Persia, conjunction 
of two or more planets. Timur was born in Mouse year 
(first of the Turkish cycle) under the cycle of Capricorn. 
He was the first to take the title of Sahib Qiran but the 
same is not found on his coins. J.A.S.B., VI (new series) 
1910, 574-75 A.N., Bev, I, 205 Gibbon (II, 1233 n) 
however, doubts if he was born under this conjunction. 
Also Sykes, History of Persia, II, 199. 

My comment 

1. The comment that such a conjunction was not 
present is totally wrong as on 9 April 1336, exalted 
Sun with Mars and Jupiter was in Mesha (Aries) and 
exalted Saturn in Tula (Libra). What is the meaning 
of Qiran has not been explained lucidly here. If it 
means conjunction, itis there on the day of the birth 
of Timur with Jupiter and exalted Sun joining 
giving an excellent rajalakshanqgoga or royal 
grandeur. 

2. Ifthe meaning of, "under the cycle of Capricorn," 
refers to his lagna or ascendant, the horoscope of 
Timur with planetary position can be cast easily 
and has been cast. Here, the exact degrees of 
planets cannot be given, as the correct birth 
time is not known. 


a Varshaphala 


3. The possible horoscope made may be correct if the 
planetary position is seen along with the possible 
Vimshottar1 Mahadasha. Exalted Sun with Mars in 
his own house and Jupiter also with these two planets 
is an excellent conjunction in the fourth house of 
Simhasanor throne. Then there is Saturn in the tenth 
house, exchanging places with Venus the tenth lord. 


4. “He ascended the throne", says historian Kishori Lal, 
“on Wednesday, 9 April, 1370(12 Ramzan, 771 H) 
which coincided with his thirty fourth birthday. 
Henceforward, during the forty years of continuous 
warfare, he never suffered defeat and subjugated 
countries from the "Dardenelles to Delhi " 

In Vimshottari Mahadasha, Timur seems to have 
_ ascended the throne in Venus, Jupiter or Saturn 
which appears very logical 

In the researches I have done along with my 
colleagues in the Institute of Astrology, Bhartiya Vidya 
Bhawan, New Delhi including Mr. Mehta, we have massive 
evidences about Mogul kings depending on astrologers, 
Hindus and Muslims. Even Aurangzeb, the fanatical 
Sunni, respected astrology (see the website fthas). This 
has to be referred to and remembered in the context 
of this excellent book which is the best to have come 
out on Tajak or annual horoscope till date containing 
brilliant predictive hints and examples. 

Students of astrology must remember that the birth 
horoscope with dashas and Parashari Vargas are 
the primary data for sound prediction. This should be 
seen in the annual horoscope and synthesized to resolve 
contradictions and conflicting interpretations, which 
can confuse and puzzle many novitiates in astrology. 
If seen deeply, these are not conflicting indications 
but differing approaches to interpretations that need 
to be looked into deeply. Let me give two instances. 

The late Mohanlal Sukhadia had got a prediction 
from an astrologer on the basis of his annual horoscope 
that he would rise very high and could even become 
the Prime Minister of India. But the birth horoscope 
of Sukhadia showed strong Maraka and he died! 


nee) | 


Introduction 


Similarly, in the year 1979-1980, a political 
opponent of Indira Gandhi gave a major and much 
publicized prediction on her Tajak for that year that 
she would suffer a humiliating defeat in the election. 
But she won an election in a spectacular way and became 
Prime Minister again to stage a spectacular comeback. 

Such conflicts cannot be avoided unless both the 
birth horoscope and the Tajak are seen together and 
synthesized. 

Many such instances can be given from available 
and published predictions. My prediction given to Dr. 
Nagendra Singh that in his election to the International 
Court of Justice he would first suffer defeat in the 
first round and later would win only after some other 
contestants withdrew was based on such a synthesis. 

Similarly, in the year 2001, when the famous 
Indian cricketer of Delhi, Virendra Sehwag was 
suspended by the racist British referee, Dennesse in 
a Test match in South Africa, I was given his horoscope 


_. by a close relative of his and I insisted that in the 


year 2002, Sehwag would touch stars and become a 
national sensation and a world cricketing giant. How 
clearly such a prediction emerges out can be seen here. 
When this unfortunate incident occurred, Sehwag 
was passing through the antardasha of Ketu in the eighth 
house, which caused him humiliation and a temporary 
set back. It was to be followed by the antardasha of 
Venus, in the third house and also the tenth lord of glory. 
It is now history, how Sehwag has become such a sensation 
living down the bitter memory of the Dennese episode. 
Is it confirmed in the Tajak for the year 2001? I found 
the annual horoscope very promising, at a glance but | 
based my prediction mainly on Jaimini chara dasha in 
which he was passing through Tula which contains his 
Amatya karka and was soon to start the antardasha of 
Makar from where this Amatyakaraka was falling in the 
tenth house showing his exploits on the cricket field. 
(As I write this on 9 October, 2002 he has scored a brilliant 
century in the first cricket test in Bombay against 
the West Indies.It is reported «in the Times of India thus: 


Varshaphala 


WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 9, 2002 
THE TIMES OF INDIA 

TIMES NEWS NETWORK [WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 
09,2002 04:07:18 PM] 

Sehwag Test-best ton leaves Windies wilting 

New Delhi: His handling of the willow is electric. 
Such is his mastery with the cricket bat; he has almost 
made Sachin Tendulkar redundant Even on Wednesday, 
his strokefui 147 laid the foundation of a probable 
Indian victory. 

23-year-old Sehwag is undoubtedly the rising 
star of the current Indian cricket team. Compared 
to maestro Tendulkar since his. debut, Sehwag has 
slowly but surely stolen the thunder from his idol. 
Birth Horoscope: Virendra Sewag 


Lag 
Sat 


Mar Su | Rahu 
Ve Mer 


Virendra Sewag 
11:45 PM Delhi 
20:10:1978 


Horoscope 
2001 


Virendra 
Sehwag 


Introduction 


The annual horoscope for the year 2001 of Sehwag 


showed: 


1. 


A strong third house which is necessary for a cricketer 
who has to perform on cricket pitches with the strength 
of his arms and strokes generated by them. 

An exalted Mars, the tenth lord is an excellent 
promise of his coming into limelight with the brilliance 
with which he has come after the Dennese episode. 
Saturn in the eleventh house is a good indication 
of the achievements of Sehwag who will be 
completing the birth year 2001 in October 2002. 
Ketu in the sixth house, again necessary for 
sportsmen in competitive sports is most helpful in 
the type of aggression he has got associated with, 
sometimes even surpassing his own idol, Sachin 
Tendulkar. 

Then what about Muntha in lagna? It has often 
been seen that Muntha in lagna creates health 
problems. Did it happen? Yes, after recovering 
from the humiliation heaped on him by Dennese, 
Sehwag came back to India and suffered a collar 
bone injury in a Test match against England and it 
almost seemed that his career was going to be 
eclipsed. But he recovered from it in time to go to 
West Indies, England and Sri Lanka where his 
spectacular innings, many of them match winning, 
has taken him up in the world cricket ranking 
besides marking him out as the most spectacular 
and even, most feared batsman of the world now. 
Now synthesize both. s 


In Vimshottari dasha in the Rahu-Ketu period he 


suffered at the hands of Dennese and also suffered 
a collar bone injury. 


Muntha in lagna in the annual horoscope showed 


it. The debilitated lagna lord, Moon, aspected by Saturn 
confirmed some agony resulting from health problem 
also. 


But in Vimshottari dasha he was to enter the 


antardasha of Venus and in Chara dasha, Amatyakaraka 


Varshaphala 


was to get activated. How could he get eclipsed under 

these circumstances? 

In Tajak, the exalted Mars, the tenth lord is confirming 
what the antardasha of Venus in Vimshottari dasha 
is showing. 

How to synthesis is shown through the example: 

First the analysis of the horoscope predominance of 
the third house influences along with another remarkable 
feature. The sixth lord, Saturn aspects all the planets in 
the third house and also exalted Moon in the tenth house 
which will give to his cricket career a great charisma. 
Remember the parallel of Indira Gandhi's horoscope 
here. 

2. Now see the vargotatma Lagna and Moon to 
discover a determined and successful man. 

3. In Vimshottari dasha it is Rahu and the third 
and the tenth lord Venus which is soon to come 
into effect. 

4. In Chara dasha, as already shown the Amatyakaraka 
comes into play prominently. 

5. InTajak the analysis given shows the confirmation 
of the promise. 

The value of Mr. Mehta's book is that it is the only 
book which shows some methods of prediction from 
annual horoscope which other writers on Tajak do 
not even know. 

Try them sincerely, after getting the hints from 
the book, which will be followed by some more 
original researches, and do your own researches. 

But remember, all-re searches must be done on 
reliable and correct horoscopes. Some Indian tried 
to “prove” his research on a horoscope of Jesus 
Christ with 25th December of some year. This is 
pure fraud and not a research. It is well known that 
Jesus was not born on 25th December and no one 
knows for sure which was the year and time of his 
birth. 

Similarly, another big fraud was a so called research 
on Moola dasha done totally wrongly and “proved” to be 


Introduction 


correct on the basis of a horoscope of Lord Rama to 
explain why he had fourteen years of exile in a forest. 
All honest researches must be done on correct 
horoscopes which are undisputed. 

The purpose of our writing books is not to flood the 
market with new written material but to show the 
success of our researches in bits, which we elaborate 
in our class room, and more so in research classes. 


K.N.Rao. 


Shukla Saptami Vikram Samvatsar 2059 A.D. 2002 


Chapter-I 
Varshaphala_ -Its Salient 
Features 


Varshaphala or Annual Horoscope, which is also 
known as Tajak system, is one of the three branches 
of Astrology. Tajak in Arabic means horse. It is, 
therefore, said that among other system this system 
runs like a horse or it is superior to others. This system 
has influence of foreign elements, as yogas used 
here are essentially western in nature. There is 
another school of thought, which thinks that it is 
indigenous in nature, as the Dasas system used is 
totally Indian in origin. 

The other two systems are; 

1. Parasari 

2. Jaimini 

Out of all the three, the Parashara is the soul 
and source of all the systems; the others are 
subordinate to it. Itis said, "What is not in Parashara 
is not anywhere else". 

Following are the main features of Tajak, Annual 
Horoscope or Varshaphala. It is sometimes called 
progressed horoscope also. 

1. Valid for the Year under examination only 

Tajaka is normally used for judging events for one 
particular year at a time, while the scope of Parashara 
is much vaster and has the potential to depict events 
not only for this life but for previous and future lives too. 

In Tajaka the time of solar parvesh or the time when 
Sun attains the same degrees of longitude every year 
as it was in the birth horoscope is taken as the nodal 
point and horoscope erected. Thus the time for making 
the horoscope changes every year, whereas in Parashara 
the time of birth is constant. 


2 Varshaphala 


I. Subordinate to Birth Chart. 

All systems of Astrology are subordinate to the main 
birth chart. The birth chart contains the limitations 
imposed on our destiny by the laws of karma. These 
are the unfettered laws that control the events of 
one's life. The fruits of Karma one must bear whether 
good or bad. There is no escape from it. Each and 
every one who is born is bound in these laws of Karma. 
“It is only the Lord who though a part of it is yet 
apart from it." (Srimad Bhagwata) 

The dasha scheme is nothing else but the 
unfolding of karmas. If the destiny has deprived one 
of blessings of children as afflictions to Sth housey 
lord and karka Jupiter show it then howsoever the 
annual chart may be good the birth of children will 
not take place. 

Ill. Aspects 

Here there is a big difference between the aspects 
of Parasara and Tajak. Tajak is more akin to Western 
system where concept of applying or separating is used. 
Here mainly three types of aspects are used such as :- 
1— Friendly Aspects - Mitra Drishti 

When planets are located as 3, 5, 9 and 11 from each 
other they aspect each other in a friendly manner. These 
are beneficial aspects whether a planet is malefic or ben- 
efic is immaterial for this purpose. The friendly aspects 
are of two varieties 
i) Very Friendly: (Pratyaksha Mitra) When the planets 

are located in trikonas from each other - 5/9 
position. When one planet is in 5th from another, 
the other is in 9th from it. 

ii) Semi or Secret Friendly: This is the aspect when 
planets are located at 3/11 from each other. 
(Gupta Mitra aspect) 

In example horoscope Mars and Saturn are 
located in 1/5 or 5/ 9 position from each other i.e. 
Saturn is 5th from Mars and Mars is 9m from Saturn. 
This is a very friendly aspect and proves beneficial 
irrespective of fact that both are malefic planets. 


Varshaphala-Its Salient Features 


Similarly, Mars and Venus are in 3/11 from each 
other i.e. Mars is third from Venus and Venus is 11 
from Mars. This is semi friendly aspect and also 
beneficial but not to the same extent as 5/9 aspects. 
Annual Horoscope 


8 
Sat 


Sun 
Example 
Annual 


2—Hostile Aspects (Inimical, Shatru Drishti) 
Planets become enemies of each other if they are 
located in kendras (quadrants) ic. 1/4, 7, 10 from each 
other. These aspects are further divided into two categories: 
i) Openly hostile: Planets located in opposition, 1/7 
from each other become open enemies. (Pratyaksha 
Shatru) 
In the above horoscope Mars and Jupiter are in 
1/7 from each other. These are hostile and evil aspects 
irrespective of the fact that Jupiter is a benefic planet, 
ii) Secret Enemies: (Gupta Shatru) Planets located 
at 1/4 from each other become secret enemies. 
In the above horoscope Mars and Sun are in 4/10 
position from each other. Similarly, Mars and 
Mercury are in 4/10 from each other. 
3. — Neutral Aspects or Sama Drishti 
Planets situated as 2/12 and 6/8 from each other 
become neutral, or we may say that they exert no aspect 
on each other. In the above horoscope Mars and Moon 
are in 6/8 from each other. Similarly, Saturn and Moon, 
Moon and Jupiter, Sun and Venus and Mercury and 


A Varshaphala 


Venus are in 2/12 position for each other. 
‘2/12 position means that if a planet A is placed in 
2nd house from another planet B, then the B planet is in 
12th position from A. In the horoscope of Mr. Nehru, Saturn 
is in 2nd from Moon and Moon isin 12thfrom Saturn. 
Similarly, if a planet C is located at 6th position from D 
then: D would be at 8th position from C This would 
be clear from the example below. : 
Example: Birth Horoscope of Pt. J. L. Neru 

In the example horoscope of Pt. J.L. Nehru, Sun 
and Moon are located at 5 / 9 from each other - Sun 
is in the 5th house from Moon and Moon is in 9th 
house from Sun. This is a very friendly aspect. Mars 
is located in the 3rd house from Moon whereas Moon 
is situated in 11th house from Mars -this is 3/11 
axis. Again this is a semi friendly or a good aspect. 


JL Nehru — 
14.11.1889 
11.03 PM 


Hostile Aspects: Planets’ Mercury and Venus are 
in kendra from Moon. Saturn and Sun are in kendra 
from each other. Similarly Mars and Jupiter are in 
kendras from each other. 

Neutral or No aspects: Moon and Saturn, Saturn 
and Mars, Mars and Mercury, Mars and Venus, 
Mercury and Sun, Venus and Sun, Sun and Jupiter 
are in 2/ 12 from each other, hence there is no aspect 
between them. Moon and Jupiter are in 6/8 position. 
Here also there is no aspect between them. 


Varshaphala-Its Salient Fea hires 5 


I — Sex ofthe Planets 

In Tajak the Male Planets are Sun, Mars, and Jupiter. 

Female Planets are: Moon, Mercury, Venus and Saturn. 

The male planets are strong in odd signs during 
the day, while female planets are strong in even 
signs during the night . 

There are no neutral or eunuch planets as 
Saturn and Mercury are treated in Parashari system. 
V — Muntha 

Muntha is very important concept in Tajak and 
has been explained in a separate chapter. This is 
the progressed lagna or movement of lagna by one 
rasi every year with respect to lagna in the annual 
horoscope and has important predictive value. 

VI — Lord of the Year- Varsheshwara 

Out of the 7 planets (Rahu, Ketu excluded), one 
planet is chosen as lord of the year whose strength 
becomes an important factor for the purpose of 
prediction and influencing events that year. 

VUI— Dashas 

Parashara mentions some 42 types of dashas, 
Jaimini refers to some 70 types of dashas, but Tajak 
has only 3 types of dashas. Two of the dashas have 
been borrowed from Parashara i.e. Vimshottari Mudda 
dasha and Yogini dasha, while the third one Patyayini 
Dasha is original to Tajak. 

VIII — Yogas. 

In Annual Horoscope we use 16 Tajak yogas, which 
are different from Parashari Yogas. These are more 
akin to western astrological system, where concept of 
applying and separating is used. While all the 16 yogas 
are important in their own way, the basic Yogas are 
only six in number, the rest only modify or amend the 
basic ones. 

Most important among these yogas are Ithasala 
and Ishrafa, applying and separating yogas. These 
are important yogas and are key to successful 
prediction. 


6 Varshaphala 


IX — Sahams 

These are the important sensitive points in the 
horoscope and are arrived at by manipulation of 
longitudes of two planets and ascendant (and at 
times other houses and Sahams also). While some of 
the astrologers use their own devices of getting 
sensitive points like fortune etc., we can say that 
Sahams are unique to Tajaka in signifying an 
important period of life for example Vivah' or marriage 
Saham is Venus - Saturn + Asd. 
X- Tripataki Chakra 

Another device used in Tajak is Tripatki Chakra for 
finding out beneficial or harmful vedha on lagna and 
Moon by other planets. This Chakra also establishes 
a link with birth and the annual chart. This has 
been explained in details in a separate chapter. 
Xi — Annual Chart vs. Birth Chart 

It must be clearly understood that Annual Chart 
is subordinate to Birth chart. The annual chart 
cannot give what is not promised in the birth chart. 


Chapter-II 
Varshaphala — or Annual 
Horoscope - 


Basic Considerations 


1. Offshoot of Prashari System 
Years of predictions on Varshaphala have shown 
that annual horoscope is nothing else but is an offshoot 
of Prashari System.While interpreting annual charts 
basic Prashari principles cannot be ignored and have 
to be followed for correct predictions. 
2. Form ofthe Horoscope 
Various forms ofhoroscopes are being used . The 
most popular are :- 
1. South Indian Style and 
2. North Indian Style : 
Horoscope format used Horoscope format used 
in South India in North India 


WNC 


Example 


Annual 
Horoscope 


3 IX 


In South Indian forms the signs or rasis will always 
be in the location as shown above. We do not write either 
number of sign or name ofsign in the horoscope. It is 
always presumed that signs have a fixed place allotted 


8 Varshaphala 


as shown. Only we write in the space concerned the word 
lagna or Asd (Ascendant). In this particular case sign rising 
or lagna is Libra, so we will write the word lagna in the 
place allotted to Libra and put two small lines across. 
The first house in this case will be sign Libra. Now the 
counting will start clockwise, Scorpio will be 2na house, 
Sagittarius third house, Capricorn 4" house, Aquarius 
5m house, Pisces 6m house, Aries 7rth house, Taurus 8m 
house, Gemini 9m house, Cancer 10m house, Leo 11"house 
and Virgo 12m house. (As there are 12 signs, so there 
are 12 houses whose significance will be explained later). 
In the North Indian form the place of houses is 
fixed as shown above. The first house will always be 
in figure shown I, which is always the sign rising or 
lagna. We do not write symbol J, II, III etc but instead 
we write the number of signs. Since in this case 
sign rising is Libra we will write figure 7. Houses 
will start anticlockwise; the second house will be 
Scorpio, the third Sagittarius, fourth Capricorn and 
so on. If the sign rising is Capricorn we will write 10 
where house | is shown as this is the 10® sign of Zodiac 
(this will be explained later), the sign 11 or Aquarius 
will be in House II shown above, Sign 12 will be in III 
house, sign 1 or Aries will be fourth house and so on. 
In a nut shell in the form used in South India the 
number of sign is not written in the chart. And one 
has to remember places allotted to each sign. Word 
lagna is written in the place of sign rising. The counting of 
houses is clockwise. In the chart used in North India 
the number of sign rising is always put in the place where 
house I is shown, rest of the sign numbers are depicted 
anti-clock wise. We will demonstrate this with an example. 
We have to make horoscope of Pt Jawahar Lal 
Nehru, the famed ex-Prime Minister of India. He was 
born in Allahabad at 11, 03 PM on 14m November 
1889.The sign rising is Cancer or rasi 4. 
Step No 1. We will ascertain lagna or ascendant 
(rising sign) first For this we will have to do mathematical 
calculations as any one of the 12 signs could be rising. 


Varshaphala or Annual Horoscope-Basic Considerations 9 


How to calculate lagna is described in a separate 
chapter and book. In this particular case sign rising 
is Cancer or Number 4. So this will take the following 
shape in South Indian and North India charts. 
South Indian Style North Indian Style 


Please note in South Indian style place for rasi © 
Cancer is fixed where we will write word lagna or 
Asd (Ascendant). In north Indian style place of houses is 
fixed. Sign Number of Lagna or Ascendant will be written 
at the place reserved for House number I, and other 
signs in anticlockwise direction as shown. So Leo will 
be II House, Virgo or sign 6 ITI House and so on. 

2. Next stage will be to place planets in this chart 
which we will show how to do in a separate book. 


After we have placed the planets in their position or 
signs the final picture will be as below: 


14.11.1889 
11.03 PM 


Allahabad 


10 Varshaphala 


3. Lagna or Ascendant 

There are twelve signs or rasis in the Zodiac. Each 
sign rises in the Eastern Horizon at a particular time 
and moves on after a period of 2 hours or so. 

Lagna is the rasi or sign rising in Eastern Horizon 
at the time of birth. The way it is calculated is given 
in the separate chapter. 

4. Zodiac or Bhachakra 

It is common knowledge that Earth moves around 
the Sun and not vice versa. This was known to ancient 
Indians centuries before the Europeans realized it. 
However, from earth it appears that Sun is moving 
from East to West. This apparent movement of Sun 
around the earth in a path is known as Ecliptic. The 
broad belt on 9 degrees on each side of the Ecliptic 
is known as Zodiac.This is thus an imaginary circle 
in Heaven which is of 360 degrees. These 360 degrees 
have been divided into 12 parts known as signs or 
rasis of 30 degrees each. 


5. Rasis or Signs 5 
The Zodiac of 360 degrees has been divided into 
12 rasis of 30 degrees each. The names of 12 rasis 


with symbols are as follows 
_ 


Pi [ares [Mesta|Ram | [Mos 
[2 [Tauros | vrshab [out | 8 Venus 
Gala El al 
| or kataka | 
[6 | ine [ma Yin [a [Me 


4 F 


Varshaphala or Annual Horoscope-Basic Considerations 11 


6. Planets or Grahas 

Planet means wanderer. Some times they are 
in forward motion, sometimes become stationary and 
sometime retrograde. There are seven planets and 
two shadowy or chaya planets. Total of these are 
nine in number and are supposed to influence human 
lives. The names of these planets are as follows: 


Rahu or Dragon's head 


In addition to above seven planets there are two 
Shadowy Planets or ChayaGrahas : 

These two planets Rahu and Ketu are known as 
shadowy planets and have no existence of their own. 
Astronomically they represent the point at which Moon's 


12 Varshaphala 


orbit intersects the Sun's orbit. Rahu, the north or 
the ascending node represents the point at which the 
Moon crosses the ecliptic to the North, and the point 
at which it crosses to the South is known as Ketu. 

These are the sensitive and important points in 
the horoscope capable of obstructing the planetary 
energies. The nodes are usually regarded as demons, 
which swallow the luminaries and cause eclipses. 

For good or for bad these are the strong forces that 
represent important points in the ROLOSCORE to give 
evil or good results. 

In Vedic astrology Rahu has ee also equated 
with Saturn, while Ketu with Mars.Their movement 
is in the reverse direction and they stay in a rasi for 
approximately 18 months. 

The three planets widely used in Western 
Astrology, Uranus (Herschel), Pluto-and Neptune are 
known as extra terrestrial planets and are not used 
in Hindu As-trology. Rahu and Ketu give adequate 
results. However, these days some of the astrologers 
use them widely to forecast world events. 

7. Motions / Movements of Planets 

All planets (except Rahu-Ketu) revolve around the 
Sun as also against their own axis from West to East. 
[From earth it appears they are moving from east to 
west. | 

Sun: moves at the rate of roughly one month in a 
sign of 30 degree or one degree in 24 hours or so. It takes 
365 days and 6 hours to complete a circle in the zodiac. 

Moon: traverses one degree of Zodiac at an average 
of one hour and 48 minutes. It performs her synodical 
course in 29 days, 12 hours and 44 minutes. 

Mercury: Average rate of movement is one and 
half day in one sign. Mercury is very close to Sun and 
due to solar influences its movements are very 
unsteady. Roughly it stays in a rasi for 27 days. It 
hardly takes a day to move one degree. It moves more 
rapidly for some time, gets in front of Sun and then 
begins to move slowly and goes backwards to the Sun. 


Varshaphala or Annual Horoscope-Basic Considerations 13 


Mercury never gets away more than 28 degrees in 
either direction of the Sun. 

Venus: moves at the rate of roughly 1 degree 
per day. It is never more than 48 degrees away 
from Sun. It completes its circle in 224 days and 7 
hours. 

Mars: it stays in a rasi for approximately 45 days. 

Jupiter: It stays in a sign roughly for one year. 

Saturn: is the slowest of the planets and stays 
in a sign for two and a half year 

Rahu / Ketu move through one rasi‘in 18 months 
in reverse direction. 

Their movement approximately per day is: 


Approximate motion per day | 
mere 


[Mercury Pes 100 S—S—*& 


Jupiter | S'to 15' 
[Saturn [2 


This information is useful and should be 
remembered as it helps in casting horoscope and fixing 
position of planets. 

8. Planets, their Characteristics and Signification 
1. SUN: is significator for (or is karka for): 

(i) Father, (1) soul, (iil) personal magnetism, (iv) 
self reliance, (v) patrimony, (vi) political power, (vil) 
Satwa Guna, (vill) godliness, (ix) nobility, (x) fires, 
(x1) position of authority, (xi) temples and places of 
worship, (xi) goldsmiths, (xiv) money lenders, (xv) 
. chemists, (xvi) druggists, (xvii) courage, (xviil) bones 
and (xix) doctors. 


14 Varshaphala 


Diseases Represented by Sun 

If Sun is weak and afflicted in the horoscope it 
might lead to diseases of heart, bones, right eye, 
stomach ailments and baldness. 

Rules over head eye bones, heart, brain and bile. 

Signifies soul, the nature of man. It represents 
power, status in society and self-reliance. 

Afflicted Sun. One has lack of will power, low 
energy, lethargic, is cowardice, dishonest and 
dependent on others with no wealth and no health. 
With Weak Sun one cannot be successful in any 
venture. 

Strong Sun in tenth house aspected by benefics is 
very good for profession. It raises even a lowly person 
to dizzy heights. 

Weak Sun aspected by malefics creates hurdles in 
career. 

2. MOON 

Many of the popular artists have their Moon well 
placed. As it is one of the lagnas also its importance 
cannot be overstated. 

Weak Moon: Person is idle, stupid, poor and fond 
of intoxication. A badly aspected Moon is great threat 
to health and causes most of functional disorders. 
One is slave to emotions. They are sensitive and absorb 
all kinds of influences. If dark and approaching 
conjunction with Sun, health is delicate during first 
four years of life - leads to Balarishta or death in young 
age. 
Represents: Gj) Mind (ii) mother (iii) water (iv) 
cultivation, (v) seamen, (vi) travelling agents, (vii) 
navigators, (viii) pearls, (ix) milk, (x) gems, (xi) white 
umbrellas, (xii) fishermen, (xii) blood (xiv) Satwa guna, 
(xv) water journey (xvi) Music-especially if placed in 
the 5" and sometimes in 3™ house, (xvii) moral and 
religious acts. 

Diseases caused by Moon 
Diseases of lungs (asthma, TB), diarrhea, lunacy, 


Varshaphala or Annual Horoscope-Basic Considerations 15 


digestve problems, jaundice, impurity of blood, watery 
diseases, cholera, typhoid, consumption, colic, apoplexy, 
dropsy, lunacy etc. 

Rules over brain, stomach, bowels breast Has much 
influence over the body fluids, saliva, womb, water, and 
blood and lymphatic glands. A badly placed Moon is 
not good for health and leads to all kinds of complications. 
3. MARS 

Aggressive-denotes physical force and passion 
and stands for 

(i) brothers/sisters - younger co-born. 

(iit) Endurance, physical strength, (ii) thamas guna, 
(iv) poisonous gas, (v) fires. 

Firemen, (i) warrior, (il) strife, scars, wounds, 
(ii) earthquake, (iv) military operations, (v) litigation, 
(vi) red woolen shawl, (vil) blood (vill) deserts, (ix) 
mountains, (x) fortification (xi) chemists, (ix) druggists, 
(xiii) gold (xiv) copper, (xv) surgeons, (xvi) dentist, (xvii) 
engineers; (xviii) butchers, (xix) iron and steel, ( xx ) 
chemical laboratories. 

Diseases caused by Mars: 

Small-pox, ulcers, blood pressure. 

Rules over muscular tissues, ears, nose, and 
forehead. 

4. MERCURY 

Pleasant in speech, fond of having fun, learned 
and witty, shifting loyalties. 

Represents (i) speech, (ii) education (il) trade, 
(iv) commerce, (v) intelligence, (vi) accountant, (vil) 
mathematics, (vill) orator, (ix) public speakers, (x) 
booksellers, and publishers.(xi Aerial and land 
journey (xii) poets (xii) architecture (ivx) wit and 
humour (xv) northern direction (xvi) mercantile 
activity (xvil) maternal uncle (xui)' “‘rajas” guna. 
Diseases caused by Mercury 

Diseases of brain, epilepsy, skin and mental 
diseases, harsh speech, stammering. 


16 Varshaphala 


Strong Mercury in the horoscope gives high intelligence, 
wit, humour and distinction in education, 

Weak Mercury in the horoscope is cause of stam- 
mering, dull intellect, nervous debility and paralytic 
complaints. 

5. JUPITER 

Is the preceptor of Gods with corpulent and tall 
body. Is learned, wise and with noble qualities. 

Is the planet of expansion and denotes (1) wealth 
(i) children (ii) wisdom (iv) charity, (v) devotion to 
God (vi) religion (vil) Vedas (vill) Vedanta (ix) guru, 
preceptor (x) legal affairs, (xi) morality (xi) shrines, 
temples (xii) lawyers, (xiv) ministers, (xv) philosophers 
(xvi) bankers (xvii) astrology (xvii) faith, devotion (ixx) 
restaurants, hotels. 

Diseases 

Liver, ear, cancer, jaundice, diabetes. 
6. VENUS 

Stands for 

(i) Wife Gi) sex (iii) marriage (iv) love (Vv) art (vi) 
poetical faculty (vii) love affairs (vil) Music (ix) dress 
(x) fine arts, (xi) botanists, (xii) marriage, (xiil)pearls 
(xiv) authors (xv) bedrooms(xvi) pleasures (xvii) south- 
eastern direction 
Diseases 

Diseases of sex, venereal diseases, aids, urinary 
problems, anaemia. 

7. SATURN 

Karka for ‘'dukha '- sorrow, hindrance, delay. 

(i) servants, (il) imprisonment, (ill) sorrows (iv) 
injuries (v) thief (vi) miners (vii) drinking, (viii) gambling 
(ix)oils, (x)iron (x1) lead (xl) western direction (xiii) 
whirlwind (xiv) storms (xv) hair (xvi) teeth ( xvii) low 
people. 

Diseases 

Windy and phlegmatic complaints belly, ache, 

paralysis, rheumatism. 


Varshaphala or Annual Horoscope-Basic Considerations 17 


8. RAHU 

(i) Paternal grand father (ii) serpents (11) magic 
(iv) Christians and Mohammedan (v) inventors 
(vi) aviators (vii) scientists (vill) scars (ix) courage, (x) 
archers, (xi) spies (xii) metaphysical studies, (xiii) 
widowhood (xiv) travellers (xv) epidemics (xvi) political 
plots (xv) exiles (xviii) radio (xix) thieves (xx) inflammable 
gases (xxi) corruption (xxil) sudden accidents 
9. KETU . 

(i) Moksha, (11) pride, (ii) miser, (iv) ascetics, (v) 
assassination (vi) Secret intrigues, (vii) backbiting 
(vill) vicious tendencies (ix) Sikhs, (x) Maternal 
grandfather, (xi) religion (xii) astrology (xi) Literary 
genius (xiv) bankruptcy (xv) artistic taste, (xvi1) 
. Occultists (xviii) philosophers ( xix) charms and amulets 

Diseases by Rahu / Ketu 

‘Epidemics, hysteria, epilepsy, cancer, dropsy, 
eczema, leucoderma, leprosy. They cause diseases 
difficult to detect. 

9. Planets as significator of House or Bhavas 


[Houses | ——sPianets 
sf Mitts | 
V Jupiter 
VI Saturn 
VII Venus 
VII 
IX 


. 


; Saturn 
Jupiter : 
Saturn, Mercury 


XI Jupiter 
| XII Saturn 


It will thus be observed that Jupiter and Saturn 
are karkas for 4 houses each which makes them very 


18 Varshaphala 


important in predictive astrology. Besides, they are 
also slow moving planets and affect human life in a 
significant way. 

10. Houses or Bhavas 

Like signs the Zodiac has been divided into 12 
houses of 30 degrees each. Lagna, whatever sign it 
may be, is always the first house. The second house 
is next higher sign and so on. For example if Gemini 
sign is rising, then Gemini would be the first house, 
Cancer would be second, Leo third house and so on. 
In North Indian horoscopes the houses are counted 
in the anticlockwise direction while in South Indian 
horoscopes they are clock-wise. 

These houses are called as follows :- 

' Kendras (or Quadrants). These are houses 1, 4, 
7, and 10. These are the places where planets become 
very strong and are known as Vishnusthan’. 

Houses 5, and 9, are known as Trikonas (Trines). 
These places are very auspicious. Their lords are 
always benefic, be they Saturn or Mars. These are 
known as ‘Laxmi Sthans'. 

Lagna or the first house is kendra as well as trikona. 

Houses 2, 5, 8 and 11 are called panpharas or 
succedent houses. 

The houses 3, 6, 9 and 12 are called Apoklima 
houses or cadent houses. 

Uppachaya Houses: houses 3, 6, 10 and 11 are 
known as Uppachaya houses. These are houses of growth. 
. Apachaya Houses. Houses 1, 2, 4, 5,7 and 8,9 

and 12 with respect to Ascendant or Moon. Apachaya 
houses give opposite results. 

Dusthan Houses: these are houses 6, 8, and 12. 
These are difficult and malefic houses. Planets 
placed in them, unless they are in their own house or 
are exalted become, weakened and cause problems. 
In 6 they cause enmity, debt and disease. In the 
8'" they cause accident, serious diseases loss 
and death. In 12" house they cause expenditure, loss 


Varshaphala or Annual Horoscope-Basic Considerations 19 


and theft. These are also called Trick Houses 
though sometimes house 3 is also included in it 
which is very mild malefic house. 

Marka Houses: Houses 7 and 2 are called Markasthan 
or Houses of Death. Eighth is the house of longevity. The 
12" from 8th is 7" house causing loss of life. That is why it 
is called house of death. Similarly 8" to 8* or 3" is house of 
Longevity and 12 from 3" is 2"¢. 

Visible Half: Houses 7 to 1 are called visible 
half of the horoscope and houses 1 to 7 are known 
as invisible half. ' 

* Eastern Half: Houses 10 to 4 are known as eastern 
half, while house 4 to 10 are called western half. 
11. Twelve Houses 

The zodiac’ has been divided into twelve houses. 
Each one of these has been allotted different 
signification. These are as follows, 

First House (Thanu Bhava) 

The first house is known as Thanu Bhava. It 

represents: 


1. Body, its form, colours, complexion etc, 
Personality. 

General prosperity. 

Beginning of life, childhood. 


Ae WN 


Health and character. 
6. It also represents head and upper part of face. 


In mundane ‘astrology it shows general well being 
of the state. 

According to sage Sattyacharya first house shows 
stay in foreign land, good and bad acts, place of 
residence, balarishtaor death at a young age, happiness 
or unhappiness. 

Uttara Kalamitra assigns 33 signification to the 
first house, among these are body limbs, hair, 
happiness, fame and freedom from ill health, 
character and general strength of the horoscope. 


20 Varshaphala 


Second House (Dhana or Kutumba) 
It represents 


1. Self-acquired wealth, jewellery, precious stones, 
bonds, security and shares. 


2. Speech; Benefic planets makes one soft spoken 
with intelligent speech. 


Family. 

Face, tongue, nose, teeth. 

Right eye. 

In mundane astrology it represents finances of 

the country. 

7. Markasthan or House of Death. 

Third House (Sahaj or Parakarma) 
Third house deals with 

i) Younger co-born, 

iil) Courage, valour, 

iil) Short journey 

iv) Throat, 

v) Ear (right) 

vi) Father's death as itis 7th from 9th. 

vi) Relatives 


Oe ee 


vil) Neighbours 
vill) In mundane astrology third house stands for postal 
services, communication, neighbours rail, wireless. 


ix) Mental inclination, inclination to study, 
x) Letters and writing. 


x1) According to KN Rao 3rd house is the house of 
change and artistic abilities. 


xii) Hobbies. 

Fourth House (Sukhistan) 
It represents 

1. Mother 


DANA WD 


Varshaphala or Annual Horoscope-Basic Considerations 21 


Buildings, landed and ancestral property. 
Education 

Vehicles 

General Happiness- Peace of Mind = 'Sukhistan'. 
Friends; shows bad association if Ath house or 
Ath lord is in papkartari yoga. 

‘Chest, respiratory system. 

Relatives 

Comfort 

Secret life, 


. Hidden treasure 


Well, farms. 
Emotional expressions, feelings, sentiments. 


Fifth House (Suta) 


Education, intellect, fortune, mantras, progeny, 


emotions, fame, grandfathers. 


im 


Bs 


Children, the kind of children, our relation with 
them. ; 

Education. Parasara calls this the house of high 
intelligence. Hence it deals with the kind of 
education one is likely to get." Maharishi Jaimini. 
also gives education to the 5th house. 


Wisdom, creative faculties. 


Poorva puniya. 5th House is referred to as 
Poorvapunyasthan or house pertaining to merit one 
has accumulated in previous life. 

This is the house of romance, lottery, amusements, 
gambling, and love affairs. As such it is house of 
pleasure, enjoyment, sport, and recreation. It 
is also house of speculation like stock market. 


Artistic talent. The disposition of Moon on the 
cusp of Ascendant or on the cusp of 5th house 
gives: flair for music, poetry. 


22 Varshaphala 


Ambassadors, ministers. 
Enormous riches, mantra, tantra fall under its purview. 


© ow N 


According to Maharishi Parashara the 5th house 
stands for royalty as well as fall from position as 
itis 8h from 10m. 


Sixth House (Ripu) 


(This is “Shatru bhava" - house of enemies, 
debts, and diseases). 


This house deals with 
Diseases 

Trouble from enemies 
Injuries and wounds 
Litigation 

Sorrows and worries 
Maternal uncle and cousins 
Armies 

Debt 

. Accidents 

10. Servants 

11. Misfortunes and bad luck 
12. Digestive system. 


6th is also an Upachaya (Houses of elevation), others 
being 3, 10,and 1 1.As an upachaya 6th gives beneficial 
results also but its dusthana results are predominant. 


CO MNDWAWHN 


Dusthana Houses - Houses 6, 8 and 12 are known 
as Dusthanas or Trik houses. 


Sixth house and planets relating to 6th show 
weakness or strength of the native, his opportunities 
and limits to fight against foes and misfortune. 


In the modern world where the struggle for 
existence is acute, 6th house must be strong to give you 
all the material advantage and crush opposition but it 
should be weaker than Ascendant If lord of 6 is stronger 


Varshaphala or Annual Horoscope-Basic Considerations 23 


than lagna, person loses to competition. 

Malefics here like Sun, Mars, Saturn and Rahu 
are strong and give good results in fighting and 
defeating the enemies. 

Benefics here tend to make us more service 
oriented, gentle self-negating and without enmity. 
This house gives skill but not recognition. 

Being 9th from 10th and 10th from 9th it is a good 
house for practice of spiritualism, service and self-negation. 
Seventh House (Jaya) 

This is house of partnership and deals with: 

1. Marriage, wife and marital happiness. 

2. Partnership, business, 10th from 10th. 7th in natural 
zodiac is Libra which is sign of trade or balance. 

3. Foreign. Ist house is birthplace—7th is farthest. 
Parashara says if lord of 1st in 7 property is far 
away from home. 

4. Roads. 

5. Lower abdomen. 

6. Losing one's way. 

7. According to sage Sattyacharya it also shows 

change of residence and foreign travel. 

Sexual diseases. 

9. Death, danger to life, Markasthan. 

Jupiter and Moon do well here. Association of 
Mercury and Saturn is not good here, as these are 
impotent planets. Saturn gives late marriage, 
detachment, separation selfishness and husband/ 
wife with much difference in age. Rahu Ketu cause 
disturbance in marriage. Mercury gives flippant 
relations. Venus makes one sensual. Mars give ‘kuja 
dosha' and conflict..Sun gives dominating husband. 
Eighth Hettefayu) 

This house deals with 
1) Longevity, and nature of death whether by drowning, 


% 


24 


i 


SOV 


Varshaphala 


accident or peaceful. This also shows whether 
death will be natural or painful caused by fire or suicide 


Misfortunes, humiliation, chronic disease and 
accidents. 


Debts, thefts and robberies. 
Sins. 

Intrigues. 

Scandals and disappointments. 


Difficulties, impediments, grief, unhappiness from 
sins committed in past births. 


Calamities, Stealing. 


According to sage Sattyacharya, this also deals 
with enemies. 


. As 2nd from 7th, it shows earning of wife. 

. Obstacles. 

. Accusations, and intrigues. 

. Occult studies as well as research and invention. 


Drugs, prostitution, and powers to manipulate others. 


. Strong sexual passion. 


If 8th lord aspects own house and also 11 it gives 


victory over rival 


Eighth lord with Markesh causes accidental death. 


(In a malefic house, 3, 6, 11, self created death - suicide.) 
Ninth House (Bhagya, dharma) 


Bhagyasthan is the name given to 9th house. 


Bhagya' denotes fortune, prosperity. 


ARON. 


This is the house of 

Father. 

Dharma, righteousness, godliness. 
Guru or preceptor. 

Long journey, sea voyage, air journey. 
Bhagya or good fortune. 


Varshaphala or Annual Horoscope-Basic Considerations 25 


6. Metaphysical studies, law, philosophy, science and 

literature, 

. Lasting fame, charities, leadership. 

. Imagination and intuition. 

. Higher education 

0. Knees 

1. Purva Punya 

A favorable Bhagya pari in kendra or kona lifts 

from ordinary to great heights. 

9th lord in 8 can be bad only if 9th bhava is also 
weak. Bhavrath Ratnakar 

Ninth house is third to 7th, wife's sister -If afflicted 
widowed or immoral -If 9th lord is in bad shape it 
shows sad plight of sister-in-law. 

Fifth and 9 combination is the spiritual promise 
of the horoscope - Rao. 

Tenth House (Karam Sthan) 

1. Profession, permanency in service, promotion, 
advancement in career. 

2. Honour, title, name and fame, power and prestige, 
success and status. 

3. Last rites to one's parents. 

Religious functions. 

High position in Government, such as Prime 

Minister, President. 

6. Pilgrimage to holy places. 

7. Honors, foreign travels, self-respect, knowledge, 
dignity, means of livelihood, commerce, trade, 
rank, fame, authority command, pilgrimage. 

8. Thighs 

Eleventh House (labhastan) 

Mantreshwara calls the 11th house, the house 
of Sidhis and Prapti. This is the house of 

1. Gains, 

2. Elder brothers/ coborn, 


7 
8 
2 
1 
1 


Vi 


26 Varshaphala 


Friends, 

Happy news 

Left ear 

Ornaments 

Fulfillment of desires 

Wealth and profit through commerce. 
‘11th lord confers honours' - K.N.Rao 11th lord 
has to be strong to get noble Prize etc. 
10. Ankles 

11. Freedom from miseries 

Twelfth House (Vyaya) 

The twelfth house is the last house of the Zodiac 
and is known as the house of loss. According to 
Phaladeepika, if lord of 12 is placed in any house, its 
signification suffers. Similarly, if lord of any house 
is placed in twelfth, the things represented by this 
house undergo a loss. For example if lord of four is in 
twelve it could mean loss of property. (Though in some 
cases it could also mean residence abroad). Similarly 
lord of seven in twelve would cause delay or problems in 
marriage, 

The 12th house also represents Meena rasi or sign 
Pisces in the natural Zodiac.The owner of this sign is 
Jupiter, the Preceptor of Gods. Venus gets exalted here 
in the form of true Love of Goddess Devi or Goddess mother. 
This sign is also a mystical sign, the sign of spiritualism. In 
this, it is at par with Libra and Aquarius rasis. Jaimini 
astrology assigns great significance to Karkamsa lagna in 
this rasi or to the placement of a benefic in the 12th 
from it, which leads to Moksha' or final bliss. 

It shows 


CWHNANAKAAYW 


1. Maturity of mystical 

Losses and theft, 

Extravagance, expenditure, 
Confiscation, embezzlement, 
'Shayan sukh (pleasures of bed)', 


de et 


Varshaphala or Annual Horoscope-Basie Considerations 27 


Hospitals, 

Jails, 

Left eye, feet, 

Residence in foreign countries 

10. Final emancipation or Moksha are the things 
represented by it. 

11. Downfall. 

Association of 12th lord with malefics causes a 
tendency to cheat, embezzle and misappropriate money. 
Since this house is primarily a house of expenditure, if 
12th lord is placed in benefic Vargas money is spent in 
honorable way. With malefics the expenditure is on 
questionable deeds, wine, women, illegal gratification, 
gambling etc. 

Jatak Parijat says if lord of 12th is strong, the 
native has his own wealth (SELF-AQUIRED), lives long 
and is happy. 

12. Nakshatras Or Constellations 

(Nakshatras have been discussed in details in my 
book 'Analyzing Horoscope through Modern Techniques) 

Zodiac of 360 degrees has 27 nakshatras or fixed 
Stars. Each nakshatra has a span of 13°20! It is further 
divided into 4 part each of 3 degrees, 20 minutes. 
Division of Zodiac into 27 Nakshatras 

There are 12 signs or rasis in the Zodiac. Each 
sign of 30 has 2% nakshatras. Since a nakshatra 
has four padas of 3°20' each, making a total of 13°20’; 
there are 9 padas in each rasi. A table of nakshatras 


in each rasi is given below. 
| Rasis or | 
Signs Nakshatras Span (longitude) | Lord 


1. Ashvini 0° to 13°20' Ketu_ 
(four padas: 
1,2, 3, and 4) 


oO HAD 


28 


2. Bharani 
(four padas: 
1,2,3, and 4) 
3. Kritika 
(Istpada] 

3. Kritika 
(three padas: 
2,3, and4) 

4. Rohini 
[1,2,3, and4) 
5. Mrigsira 
two padas: 

12) 

5. Mrigsira 
(two, padas: 
3,4) 

6. Ardra 

(four padas: 
1,2,3, and4) 
7. Punarvasu 
(three padas: 
1,2, and 3) 

7. Punarvasu 
| (Ath pada) 

8. Pushyami 
(four padas: 
1,2, 3, and 4) 
9. Ashlesha 
Mercury © 
(four padas: 
1,2,3, and4) 
10. Magha 
(fourpadais: 
1,2,3, and4) 


2. Taurus 


4. Cancer 


Rasis or. | 
Signs Nakshatras Span (longitude) | Lord 


Varshaphala 


13°20' to 26°40’ | Venus 


26°40! to 30° 


O°to, 10° 


. 10° to 23°20' 


23°20' to 30° 


0° to 6°40' Mars 


6°40' to 20° t Rahu 


20° to 30° | Jupiter 


0°to3°20' Jupiter 


3°20' to 16°40' Saturn 


16°40' to 30° 


0° to 13°20’ 


Varshaphala or Annual Horoscope-Basic Considerations 29 


Rasis or = 7 a ; | 
Signs Nakshatras Span (longitude); Lord 


11. Poorva- 

phalguni 13°20' to 26°40" 
(four padas: 
, 1,2,3, and 4) 

12. Uttara | 

phalguni | 26°40’ to 30° 
(Istpada) 

12. Uttara 

phalguni 0° to 10° 
(three padas: 

2,3, 4) 

13.Hasta 10° to 23°20' 
(four padas: 

1, 2, 3, 4) 

14. Chitra | 23°20' to 30° 
(two padas: 

1,2) 
7. Libra 14. Chitra 0° to 6°40' 


(two pada: 

3,4) 

15. Swati 6°40' to 20° 
| (four padas: 


| 1,2,3,4) 
16. Vishakha | 20° to 30° Jupiter 
(three padas: | 
| 1,2,3) 
8. Scorpio | 16. Vishakha 0° to 3°20' Jupiter] 
(4th pada) 
17. Anuradha ; 3°20to 16°40' Saturn 
(four padas : | 
1,2,3,4) | 
18. Jyeshta 16°40' to 30° | Mercury 
(four padas: 
1,2,3,4) 4 
9.Sagittarius) 19. Moola 0° to 13°20" Ketu 


10.Capricon 


12. Pisces 


Varshaphala 


Rasis or 
Signs | Nakshatras Span (longitude) Lord 


(four padas : 


| 1,2,3,4) 


20. Poorva 


} Ashada_ , 


(four padas : 


| 1,2,3,4) 


21. Uttara 
Ashada 
(Istpada) 

21. Uttara 
Ashada 
(three padas : 


| 2,3,4) 


22. Sravana 
(four padas : 


(two padas : 

12) 

23. Dhanishta 
(two padas : 
34) 

24. Satabhisha 
(four padas: 


1, 2,3,4) 


25. Poorva 
Bhadra 

(three padas : 
1,2,3) 

25. Poorva 
Bhadra 

(4th pada) 


| 26. Uttara 


Bhadra 


3°20' to 16°40! 


13°20' to 26°40! 


26°40' to 30° 
0° to 10° 

10° to 23°20' 
23°20' to 30° 
0° to 6°40' 


+ 


6°40! to 20° 


20° to 30° 


0° to 3°20" 


Jupiter 


Saturn 


Varshaphala or Annual Horoscope-Basic Considerations 31 


Rasis or 
jSigns | Nakshatras Span (longitude) | Lord 


(four padas: 

1,2, 3, and 4) 

27. Revati 16°40' to 30° 

(four padas: 

1,2, 3, and 4) a 
According to some pundits there are 28 nakshatras. 
This additional “Abhijit” nakshatra has been allotted 
number 22, thus shifting number of the rest of 
nakshatras. Revati will thus get number 28. 


Aid to Memory 

Remember nakshatras repeat after 9th.For 
example nakshatras J; 10 and 19 belong to Ketu. 
Nakshatras 2, 11 and 20 belong to Venus 3, 12 & 21 
belong to Sun 4, 13 and 22 are of Moon 5, 14 and 23 
belong to Mars 6, 15 and 24 are of Rahu 7, 16 and 25 
belong to Jupiter 8, 17 and 26 belong to Saturn and 
9, 18 and 27 belong to Mercury. 


Remember: 

1. Fiery signs 1, 5 and 9 (Aries, Leo and Sagittarius) 
have same set of nakshatras i.e.Ketu (4 

charan), Venus (4 charan) and of Sun (1 charan). 

2. Earthy signs 2, 6 and 10 (Taurus, Virgo, Capricorn) 
have nakshatras of Sun (3 charan), Moon (4 
charan), Mars (2 charan). 

3. Airy signs 3, 7and 11 (Gemini, Libra, and Aquarius) 
have nakshatras of Mars (2charan), Rahu 
(4charan), and Jupiter (3 charan). 

4. Watery signs 4, 8 and 12 (Cancer, Scorpio and 
Pisces) have nakshatras of Jupiter (1 charan). 
Saturn (4 Charan) and Mercury (4 charan). 

VARGAS 
Zodiac consists of 360 degrees or 12 rasis of 30 
degrees each. Each rasi or sign is further sub-divided 
into number of divisions. These divisions are called Vargas. 


32 Varshaphala 


Vargas are basic tools available to Vedic astrologers 
for predictive purposes. The success of Hindu astrology 
over all other systems available in the world goes in 
no small measures to this division of rasi into vargas. 
Basically Vargas are used to measure the strength 
of planets. As it is well known principle of Astrology 
that only strong planets are capable of giving good 
results. The weak planets not only fail to deliver results 
of their signification but spoil the results of the bhava 
where they are placed or the bhavas over which they 
transit. To give a small example the 5th lord, represents, 
among other things, education. If this 5th lord of the 
birth horoscope keeps repeating in various vargas in its 
own house, sign of exaltation or in friend's house the 
achievements in the educational field of the person 
concerned would be really high. 


While Maharishi Prashar has divided the rasi in 
16 (shodasvargas), the Vargas that are commonly used 
are as follows: 


I. Shadvargas 


1. Rasi D-1 
2. Hora D-2 
3. Drekkan D-3 
4. Navamsa D-9 
5. Dwadsamsa D-12 
6. Trimsamsa D-30 
II. Saptvargas 
1. Rasi D-1 
2. Hora D-2 
3. Drekkan D-3 
4. Saptamsa D-7 
5. Navamsa D-9 
6. Dwadsamsa D-12 
7. Trimsamsa D-30 


Basic Considerations 33 


III. Dasavarga 


1. = Rasi D-1 
2 Hora D-2 
3 Drekkan D-3 
4 Saptamsa D-7 
5. Navamsa D-9 
6. Dasamsa D-10 
7 Dwadsamsa D-1 2 
8 Shodasamsa D-1 6 
9 Trimsamsa D-30 
10. Shashtyamsa D-60 
IV Sho dasavarga 
1. Rasi D-1 
2. Hora D-2 
3. Drekkan D-3 
4. Chaturthamsa D-4 
5. Saptamsa D-7 
6. Navamsa D-9 
7. Dasamsa D-10 
8. Dwadasamsa D-1 2 
9. Shodasamsa D-1 6 
10. Vimsamsa D-20 
11 Chaturvimsamsa D-24 
12. Bhamsa D-27 
13. Thrimsamsa D-30 
14. Khavedamsa D-40 
15. Akshavedamsa D-45 
16. Shashtyamsa D-60 


Import]amce of Vargas 


2. Basically the Vargas are used to measure strength 
of the planet A strong planet that is well-placed in 


34 Varshaphala 


dasvargas gives excellent results. In Navamsa if a 
planets repeats itselfin the same rasi, is known as 
Vargottam.' A vargottam planet gives more or less as 
good results as that given by an exalted planet. 

1. RASI (D-l) 

This is the basic and most important chart, which 
is also known as birth horoscope. It is different from 
the word rasi normally used in Hindu astrology which 
denotes the Sign in which Moon is placed at birth. 

It should be clearly understood that this chart is of 
basic importance. What is not promised in this chart 
and the dasha scheme, cannot be given in other charts. 

If the children are denied in the birth chart and are 
not promised in the dasha scheme, then howsoever, 
the other charts may be good, birth of children will not 
occur. So is the case with other facets of life. 

2. HORA (D-2) 

From Hora is judged wealth, prosperity na second 
house signification. 

It is the division of a sign in two parts of 15 degrees 
each. In odd signs 1, 3, 5, 7, 9 and 11, the first 15 
degrees go to the Hora of Sun, while the last 15° go to 
hora of Moon. In even sign 2, 4, 6, 8, 10 and 12 this 
process is reversed. The first 15 degrees go to Moon 
while last 15 degrees go to Sun. 

3. NAVAMSA (D-9) 

This is the most important varga. Much of the credit 
of success of Hindu Astrology goes to navamsa. This 
chart should be treated at par with birth horoscope 
and chart with Moon as lagna. No prediction should 
be given in any sphere of life, particularly on marriage 
without consulting this chart. This chart clearly 
shows the strength and weakness of planets. 


Navamsa is basically consulted for married life, 
temperament, character of the spouse, timing of marriage 
and happiness and marital tensions. It also gives useful 
clue in practically all spheres of life. Each sign of 30 


Varshaphala or Annual Horoscope-Basic Considerations 35 


degrees of the zodiac has been divided into nine parts 
consisting of 3 degrees and 20 minutes. This has correlation 
with one fourth part of a nakshatra consisting of 13 
degrees, 20 minutes, and is called a pada constituting 
again 3 degrees 20 minutes. (Nakshatras are 27 in number, 
and if we divide the zodiac of 360 degrees by 27, we get arc 
of one nakshatra equal to 13°20’). 

There are various methods of making a navamsa 
chart. Here we give the easiest one, so that these 
could be easily memorized. 

Since each navamsa consists of 3°20', first 
ascertain to which navamsa a planet or lagna belongs 
to by seeing its longitude. For example Ist navamsa is 
from 0 to 3°20', second from 3°20' to 6°40', 3rd from 6°40' 
to 10°, 4th from 10 to 13°20' and so on. Remember 3rd 
navamsa finishes at 10°, 6th finishes at 20°, rest is easy. 
Example Planet is having longitude of 22°40'.Since 6th 
finishes at 20 and one navamsa is of 3°20', planet is in 
the 7th navamsa. Now start counting as follows: 

i) Inmovablerasis (1, 4,7and 10: Aries, Cancer, 
Libra and Capricorn) the counting starts from 
rasi itself i.e. where the planet is located. 

ii) In Fixed rasis (2, 5, 8 and 11) the counting 
starts from 9th place from its location 

ii) In dual signs (3, 6, 9, 12) the counting starts 
from the 5th position. 

Importance of Navamsa 

According to Phaladeepika if lord of the Ascendant is 
strong in Navamsa one attains all types of happiness. 
Vargottam Navamsa 

The meaning of vargottam planet has been 
explained. The first navamsa of a movable sign, middle 
one of the fixed sign and last one of the dual sign 
are called vargottam. According to Hora Ratnam one 
born with such a Navamsa Ascendant will be the chief 
of his race, means he will be very prosperous. 

1. In Vargas this is the most important chart. No 


36 


by 


Varshaphala 


prediction should be made without consulting 
navamsa charts and it should be read as birth 
chart. South Indian astrologers attach great 
importance to this Varga and do not give any 
prediction without consulting this chart. 

The relative value allotted to Vargas in Shadvargas 
classical writers 1s 
Rashi 

Hora 

Drekkan 
Navamsa 
Dwadashmsa 
Trimshasha 
According to this navamsa is almost at par with 


KHVNunPN OD 


the birth chart. 


25 


4. 


It shows strength and weakness of planets. 
Debilitated planet may become exalted in navamsa 
and hence may improve its position and vice a 
versa. According to ancient texts a debilitated 
planet, if exalted in navamsa, gives the result of 
an exalted planet. However, it will be more 
appropriate to say that its position is improved and 
does not give the bad results it is supposed to give. 


. To see the strength of the horoscope, count the 


number of Raj yogas there are in the birth 
horoscope. Compare these with those in Navamsha. 
If the number of Rajyogas do not substantially 
decrease, the strength of the horoscope stays. But 
if the number is substantially decreased the 
horoscope does not remain as powerful as it is 
supposed to be. 

DREKKAN (D-3) OR DECANATES 


Each sign consists of 30 degrees, which is divided 


into three parts of 10 degrees each, 1 to 10 degrees are 
in the Ist drekkan, 10 to 20 degrees in second and those 
which are from 20 to 30 degrees belong to third drekkan. 
Planets/Lagna falling in the first drekkan belong to sign 


Varshaphala or Annual Horoscope-Basic Considerations 37 


itself, the second drekkan are in the sign 5th from 
it and the third drekkan is in the sign 9th from it. 
5. CHATURTHAMSA (D - 4) 


This chart is seen for fate, destiny or 'Bhagya', 
movable and immovable property and conveyance. Good 
use has been made of this chart in predicting 
construction or owning of houses. See my article in 
Journal of Astrology July 1999, . 

Each sign of 30° is divided into 4 parts of 7°30'. 
First part of planets/lagna falling from 1 to 7°30" falls 
in the sign itself. 2nd part from 7°30' to 15° fall in the 
sign 4th from it. The third part 15° to 22°30' falls in 
the sign 7th from it. The fourth part 22°30' to’ 30° 
‘ degrees falls in the sign 10th from it. 

6. SAPTAMSA (D-7) 

This divisional chart is seen for children, happiness 
from them, their sex, and other related matters. See 
KN Rao's Book Planets and Children’ for the effective 
use made of this chart. Each sign of 30 degrees is divided 
into 7 parts of 4°17' each. In odd signs counting starts 
from the sign itself whereas in even signs counting starts 
7th from the sign where the planet or lagna falls. 


7. TRIMSAMSA (D-30) 
This chart is seen for 
i) miseries and happiness. 
il) evils or ‘arishta'. 
i) for study of character. 


Each sign of 30 degrees is divided into 30 parts of 
| degree each. The degrees are allotted as follows :- 


“Odd signs [Even Signs —*d 


Mars Venus 


Saturn Mercury 


Jupiter Jupiter 
Mercury Saturn 
Venus — Mars 


38 Varshaphala 


A planet placed in odd sign at birth will continue 
being in odd sign in Trimsamsa. Similarly, a planet placed 
in even sign at birth will continue being in even sign in 
Trimsamsa. 


8. DWADSAMSA (D-12) 


Each sign of 30 degrees is divided into 12. parts of 
2°30' each. The counting starts from the sign itself 
where the planet is located. 


This chart is studied to know about 


i) The age of parents. 

ii) Their social and financial standing. 

iii) The amount of happiness one can derive from the 
parents. 

iv) To study higher consciousness and provides a 
link between the past and future lives. 


9. DASHAMSA (D- 10) 


This is an important chart for the study of profession, 
achievement in career, trend of destiny, honor and 
success in life. It is easy to see with this chart extent 
of rise and pitfalls in career. 


Each sign of 30 degrees is divided in 10 parts of 
3° each. In odd signs counting starts from the sign 
itself. In even signs the counting is done from the 9th 
house from where the planet is posited. 


10. SHODASAMSA (D- 16) 


It deals with conveyances and general happiness. 
KN Rao has used this chart extensively for study of 
matters relating to vehicles and accidents. 

Each sign of 30 degrees is divided into 16 parts of 1° 
52' 30" each. According to Maharishi Prashar the counting 
in movable signs should start from Aries, in fixed signs 
from Leo and in dual signs from Sagittarius. 


11. VIMSAMSA (D-20) 


The chart is seen for worship or Upasana, and benefits 
person is going to derive from it. It reveals lot of information 


Varshaphala or Annual Horoscope-Basic Considerations 39 


about meditation, spiritual inclination and religious 
activity. 

Each sign of 30 degrees is divided into 20 parts of 
1°30' each each. For a planet posited in a movable 
sign counting starts from Aries, im fixed signs from 
Sagittarius and in dual sign from Léo. 


12. CHATURVIMSHAMSA (D-24) 

This divisional chart is seen for education, 
learning and academic achievements. 

Each sign of 30 degrees is divided into 24 parts 
of 1°15' each. In odd signs counting starts from Leo, 
and in even sign from Cancer. 


13. SAPTVIMSHAMSA (D-27) 


Also known as Bhamsa is seen for one's general 
strength and weaknesses including physical strength. 
Each sign of 30° is divided into 27 parts of 1°6'40" 
each. 


For planets posited in fiery signs counting starts from 
Aries, for earthy signs from Cancer, for airy signs from 
Libra and from watery signs from Capricorn. 


14. KHAVEDAMGSA (D-40) 


Also known as Chatvarimshamsa is seen for 
studying the auspicious and inauspicious effects of 
horoscope on the native. Each sign of 30 degrees is 
divided into 40 parts of 0°45' each. 


For odd signs counting starts from Aries and even 
signs from IibraSuppose Moon is in Capricorn at 3° 25'. It 
is then in the 5th part As Capricorn is an even sign the 
counting would start from libra 5th from Libra is Aquarius 
where Moon will be placed in Khavedamsa chart. 


15. AKSHVEDAMSA (D - 45) 


This chart is seen for character and conduct of 
the native and also for the general auspicious and 
inauspicious effects. Each sign of 30 degrees is divided 
into 45 parts of 0° 40' each. Counting starts from Aries in 


40 Varshaphala 


movable signs, from Leo in fixed signs and Sagittarius 
in dual signs. 


16. SHASHTIAMSA CHART (D - 60) 


Is seen for general auspicious and inauspicious 
indications.Each sign of 30 degrees is divided into 
60 parts of 0° 30' each. Ignore the sign position of the 
planet. Multiply the longitude of the planet by 2. Ignore 
minutes and divide the degrees by 12. Add 1 to 
remainder. The resultant figure may be counted 
from the sign where planet is posited. 


Chapter-II] 
Casting the Annual Horoscope 
What is Solar Return or 
Varsha Pravesh? 


Sun completes full circle of Zodiac consisting of 12 
rasis in one year. Therefore, after completion of full one 
year the Sun's position in the natal horoscope would 
be the same, which it was at the time of birth. 
(However, actually, the time taken by Sun in completing 
one round of Zodiac is 365 days, 6 hours, 9 minutes and 
10 seconds). The time when Sun returns to its original 
position after taking full one circle in the Zodiac is 
called solar return or varsha “pravesh”. This is the 
moment in each year whether Nirayana or sidereal, when 
longitude of the Sun in that particular year becomes 
equal to the longitude of the Sun at the time of birth. 

The year consists of 52 weeks. If we subtract (52 X 
7 = 364) days from 365 days, 6 hours, 9 minutes and 
10 seconds we get a remainder of one day 6 hours, 9 
minutes and 10 seconds. This figure is constant of 
the solar return and is called ‘Dhruvankar 
numerical constant' for one year. 

Since we know the constant of one year, we can 
easily find out the constant for any number of 
completed years by multiplying these with 1 day, 6 
hours, 9 minutes and 10 seconds. 

If a person is bom on 9th January 1970, he will be 
completing ten years on 8th January 1980 and eleventh 
year of his life would start from 9th January 1980. 
Similarly, he would be completing twenty years on 
8th January 1990 and twenty first year of his life 
would start from 9th January 1991. 

To find out constant for ten years, we multiply 10 


42 Varshaphala 


with 1 Day, 6 hours, 9 minutes and 10 seconds which is 
equal to 12 days, 13 hours, 31 minutes and 10 seconds. 
If we take out 7days or one week from this figure we would 
get a balance of 5 days, 13 hours, 31 minutes and 10 
seconds (31.6 seconds to be exact). 

The constant for completed number of years is given 
in the chart table I towards end of the chapter. By 
reference to this table you can find out the constant 
for number of completed years. This table-1 is also 
given in Lahiri's ephemeris under the head Solar 
Return or Varsapravesh. 

Adding this constant for required number of completed 
years to the weekdays and time of the birth we would 
get weekday and the time of Varshpravesh for the year 
to commence. The weekday thus obtained may be the 
same as falling on the native’s actual birthday or 
it may fall a day before or after the actual birthday. 

A horoscope cast for this particular weekday, falling 
on or around one's actual birthday, and for the time 
obtained as above is called the annual chart or chart 
of Varsha Pravesh. (Varsha means year and pravesh 
connotes entry - which means entry of Sun here). 

CONCEPT OF COMPLETED YEARS 


Please note that if a person was born on 9th June, 
1970, he would have completed one year of his life on 9th 
June, 1971; two years on 9th June, 1972 and so on. So 
he would be completing twenty-seven years of his life on 
8th June 1997 And 28th year would start on 9-6-1997. Jf 
we were to make an annual horoscope of the year 1997- 
98, then the completed number of years would be twenty 
seven, and annual horoscope would be for the twenty 
eighth year. Similarly, for the birth on 15th August, 1947 
India would be completing 50th year on 14th August, 
1997 and 51st year of independence would start from 
15th August, 1997 onwards. So if we were to make an 
annual horoscope of India for, the year 15th August 1997 
to 14th August 1998 that is for 51st year of Independence 
we would take into consideration only completed years 
50 and not 51. This is important and should always be 


Casting the Annual Horoscope 4 


borne in mind while erecting an annual chart. Once 
you have ‘understood this concept then the rest is 
easy. Similarly, to erect a chart for 25th years you 
have to take into consideration twenty-four completed 
years and multiply these with the constant. 
PREPARATION OF THE ANNUAL CHART 

We shall explain this step by step in case of 
Horoscope of Mr. Jawahar Lal Nehru; India's first 
famed Prime Minister. 

Date of Birth : 14-11-1889. 

Time of Birth : 11:03 PM. : 

Place of Birth : Allahabad (India). 

Day of Birth : Thursday 

Birth Chart of J. L. Nehru 


JL Nehru 
14.11.1889 


11.03 PM 
Allahabad 


Lagna Sun Moon Mars Mercury 
23°57' 0°16' 17°52' 09°59’ 17°08' 
Jupiter Venus Saturn Rahu Ketu 
15°10' -07°21* = 10°50! 11°13" 11°13' 


Note : To construct an annual horoscope we need 
one more information and that is day of the week when 
the person was bom which in this case is Thursday. 
This information can easily be found out from the Lahiris 
ephemeris where normally the day of the week is given 


4 Varshaphala 


along with other data relating to longitude of planets. 
However, along with Solar return or Varsapravesh the 
method for calculating day of the week is also given. 


THE ANNUAL CHART FOR THE YEAR 1947 


Completed Years 1946 - 1889 = 57 years. We will 
thus be making the annual chart for the 58th year of 
the life of Nehru for the year 1947. 


In preparation of the annual chart the following 
steps are involved. 


1. Note the weekday of the birth along with time, date 
and place of birth, which in this case is Thursday. 
Allot this a numerical number in the following 
manner: Sunday - 1; Monday - 2; Tuesday - 3; 
Wednesday - 4, Thursday - 5; Friday - 6; Saturday - 7. 

2. Calculate the completed number of years for which 
annual chart is to be made. In this particular 
case Nehru completed 57 years on 13. 11.1946. 


3. Find out constant (Dhruvanka) from the table I for 
completed years ( 57 years). 

Add to the week day (numerical number like 1 
for Sunday, 2 for Monday, .3 for Tuesday and so on) 
i.e. 5 for Thursday and time of birth in the constant 
for completed years. The total will give the weekday 
and time of Varsapravesh. 

The day of the week so obtained would be same or 
one or two days before or after of the actual day of 
the birth. If there is too much difference then 
you are making a mistake and in that case 
calculations should be re-checked. 

4. On the basis of these details prepare the annual 
horo-scope in the normal way. 

5. Place of Birth for Annual Horoscope. The place of 
birth to be taken is the original place of birth where 
the native was born. 

6. Add to the day and time of birth constant for 
completed years.: 


Casting the Annual Horoscope 45 


7. Calculate the Ascendant in the normal manner 
for this day and time. 


Example —Pt. J.L. Nehru's Horoscope 
ANNUAL HOROSCOPE FOR 58TH YEAR; 1947 


1. Completed years — As explained above completed 
* years = 57 on 14.11.1946. 


2. Day and Time of Birth — 


: Time 
Day Hrs ; Min Sec 
"> 23 03 0 


(Thursday is 5) (As the birth at 11 p.m.) 
3. Constant for the 57th year as per table 1 — 


Time- 
. _Day Hrs Min Sec 
For 55 years 6 2 23 55 
Add_ for balance 
2 years _ 12 18 19 
For 57 years 8 or 1 14 42 14 


(Divide 8 by 7 days of the week) 


Varsha Parvesh 


Time 
Day Hrs Min Sec 
Day 8s Time of birth 5 23 03 =O 
. Constant for 57 years 1 14 42 14 
Total 6 37 45 14 
Or 7 13. 45 (+14 


Day 7 = Saturday. Now consult the ephemeris for 
November 1946. The nearest Saturday close to 14th 
November is on 16th November 1946. Varshapravesh on 
this day is at 13 hrs, 45 minutes, and 14 seconds. 


46 Varshaphala 


Calculate the horoscope on this basis and you get 
the annual chart for 1946. 


This would be as below. 


1 Ascendant Aquarius 23°57' 

2. Sun Scorpio 0°16' 

3 Moon Leo 05°18' 

4 Mars Scorpio 13°49' 

5. Mercury Scorpio 12°04' (R) 
6 Jupiter Libra 18°03' 

7 Venus Scorpio _ 02°36' (R) 
8 Saturn Cancer 15°44’ 

9 Rahu Taurus 18°43 


Note : Sun's Longitude must tally with Longitude 
of Sun in birth horoscope. 


Pt JL Nehru 


Horoscope 


16.11.46 
13hrs47m- 14s 


Example 2 — Horoscope of Indira Gandhi 
Date of Birth : 19-11-1917 

Time of Birth : 11:11PM 

Place of Birth : Allahabad | 

Day of Birth : Monday 


Casting the Annual Horoscope 47 


Birth Horoscope of Indira Gandhi: 


boa eee 


Lag 
Indira Gandhi | Sat 


Required : Annual Horoscope for Nov 1941 tojudge 
events for marriage which happened on 26.3.1942. 
Completed Years 1941-1917 =24 years 
Constant or Dhruvanka for 24 years = 2d, 3h, 39 
m, 53s 
Varsha Parvesh 
Time 
Day Hr Min _ Sec 
Day &Time ofbirth 2 23 ll 0 


Add: Constant for 


24 years 2 3 39 53 
Total 4 26 650 53 
Or 5 02 50 53 (24hrs=1day) 


The 5th day of the week is Thursday. The nearest 
Thursday to 19th November 1941 is Thursday 20th 
November. The calculation for Varshpravesh would be 
19/20-11-1941 at 02 hours, 50 minutes and 53 seconds 
AM. 


The planetary position would be as follows: 


1. Ascendant Virgo 16°40’ 
2: Sun Scorpio 04°07' 
3. Moon Scorpio 16°50' 
4 Mars Pisces 18°35' 


48 Varshaphala 


Mercury Libra - 17°02’ 


5 

“. 6 Venus Sagittarius 21°17' 
7. Jupiter Taurus ' 25°47'(R) 
8. Saturn Taurus 1°49'(R) 
9. Rahu - Leo 26°01 (R) 


Exercises 


1. Sanjay Gandhi 

Date of Birth : 14-12-1946— 

Time of Birth : 9:27AM 

Place of Birth : Delhi .Died on 23-6-1980 
Work out Varsha Pravesh for 34th year. 

2. Rajiv Gandhi 

Date of Birth : 20-8-1944 

Place of Birth : Bombay 

Time of Birth .: 8:11 AM (War Time) 

Work out Varsha Pravesh for. 41st year of his life. 
3. V.P.Singh 

Date of Birth : 25-6-1931 

Time of Birth : 7.51 AM 

Place of Birth : Allahabad 


He lost power on 7; 11; 1990. Work out annual 
chart for relevant year. 


Casting the Annual Horoscope 49 


See answers at the end of Chapter. 
Table -I 
Dhruvankas for completed years 


Completed Dhruvanka 
Years | h m Ss 


ke 


Oo ON WN OO. W ND 


ae a 
NF oO 


NNNNN BP EE EE 
EFWNHRrF OM ON KH UB 


N 
w w 
PWNOKDUBPNPEODKBRWNEDUBWHEOHDUWDN LO 


No 
OV 


50 Varshaphala 


j Completed Dhruvanka 
Years h m Ss 


d 
5 
0 
1 
2 
3 
5 
6 
0 
1 

"3 
4 
5 
6 
i 
2 
3 
5 
6 
0 

“1 
3 
4 
5 
6 
6 
5 
4 
3 
3 


Casting the Annual Horoscope 51 


Completed Dhruvanka 
Years 


Answer to Exercises 
1. Birth Horoscope of Sanjay Gandhi: D.O.B 
14:12:1946. 9:27 AM Delhi 


Pix A Su 
8 Me 
et 


For annual chart Make the horoscope for ON 12. 
1979 ; 8.32 PM. Ascendant is Cancer. 

Death in Air Crash 23.6.1980 

Annual Chart for 14: 12: 1979 


‘52 . Varshaphala 


Ascendant 10°39" : Sun 28° 27': Moon 1 ° 45’: 
Mars 16° 03' : Mercury 9° 06'(R) Jupiter 16° 26' : 
Venus 26° 20'(R) :Saturn 2 ° 07': Rahu 28 ° 46' 

2. Make horoscope for the annual year 1984 for 

20.8. 1984. Time 1:12: 45. 


Rajiv Gandhi: D. O. B. 20.8:1944 .8: 11 AM Mumbai 


Rajiv Gandhi: Annual Chart 20.8. 1984. 1: 12: 45 
PM: Prime Minister 31; 10:1984 Sun was year lord. 


Muntha 8 
Jup 
9 


Horoscope 
1984 


Bomby 


Ascendant 8° 23' :Sun 3° 50': Moon 9° 34': Mars 7° 
40': Mercury 18° (R) 21’Jupiter 9° 38'(R) : Venus 
21°45'(R): Saturn 17°13': Rahu 8°35’ 


Casting the Annual Horoscope 53 


Answer to Q 3 


Horoscope 


25.6.1990 
10:51 AM 


Asd 19° 18', Sun 9° 41° , Moon 12° 43', Mars 24° 
14', Mercury 00 °.38' Jupiter 24° 17', Venus 6° 31’, 
Saturn 29° 41', Rahu 13° 51' 


Chapter-IV 
Muntha 


WHAT IS MUNTHA? 


Muntha is an important mathematical concept in 
Varshaphala connecting the annual horoscope with the 
birth horoscope. In the birth horoscope it is located in 
the Ascendant, and moves one rasi every year in direct 
motion. For example if in a horoscope the Ascendant is 
Gemini, then Muntha at birth would be in Gemini, next 
year it will move to Cancer, third year it will be in Leo, 
Ath year in Virgo and so on. 


HOW TO CALCULATE MUNTHA? 


i) Note the number of rasi the birth ascendant is 
in. If the ascendant is Virgo, the number of rasi 
is 6. 

ii) Add to itthe completed number of years elapsed 
between the birth and the current year for 
which Muntha is to be calculated. 


ii) Divide the total by 12. The remainder so obtained 
would be the rasi in which Muntha is located. 
iv) Ifthe remainder is 0,it should be treated as 12 
sign or Pisces. 
Example No 1 
In the birth horoscope of PL J.L.Nehru, who was born 
on 14th, November 1889, with Cancer as lagna, we are 
required to work out Varshphala- for 58th year. Nehru 
complete 57 years of his life on 14th November, 1946.For 
annual chart of November 1946 to November 1947, add 
57 the completed number of years to 4, the number of 
sign Cancer. The total is 61. Divide 61 by 12 and you geta 
remainder of 1, which is Aries Rasi. Muntha, therefore, 


Muntha 55 


will be in the sign Aries with Mars as its lord. This 
would be as below. 


Pt J.L Nehru 


: Sat 
Annual 
Horoscope 


1. Ascendant Aquarius " 23°57" 
2. Sun Scorpio 0°16' 
3. Moon Leo 05°18' 
4. Mars Scorpio 13°49' 
5. Mercury Scorpio 12°04'(R) 
6. . Jupiter Libra 18°03' 
7. Venus Scorpio 02°36’ (R) 
8. Saturn Cancer 15°44! 
9. Rahu Taurus 19-27" 


Example Ne 2 


In the birth horoscope of Independent India, of 15th 
August 1947, the Ascendant is Taurus. We are 
required to erect an annual horoscope for the year 
15th August 1998 to 14th August 1999. The completed 
years on 15thAugust 1998 would be 51. Add 51 to 2, 
the number of rasi Taurus, the Ascendant of 
Independent India.The total would be 53. Divide it by 
12 and you get a remainder of 5. Muntha would be 
placed in rasi 5 or Leo in the annual horoscope of 
India for the year 1998- 1999 .The lord of Muntha or 
Munthesh would be Sun. 


Exercises: Horoscope of Jawahar Lal Nehru 


Date of Birth 14th November, .1889.Time of Birth 
11.05 PM. Place of Birth Allahabad - India 


56 Varshaphala 


JL Nehru. 
14.11.1889 


11.03 PM 
Allahabad 


Question: Work out Muntha for Annual 

Horoscope in which following events happened 

i) 8th February, 1916 (marriage) 

ii) 19th November, 1917 (birth of daughter, Indira 
Gandhi) 

iii) 6th February, 1931 (death of Father, Moti Lal 
Nehru) 

iv) 15th August, 1947 (1st Prime Minister of 
Independent India) 

v) 27th May, 1964 (death) 

Answers 

i) Completed years on 14-11-1915, 26 years: 
Muntha is in Virgo 

ii) Completed years on 14-11-1917, 28 years: 
Muntha is in Scorpio. 

iii) Completed years on 14-11-1930, 41 years: 
Muntha is in Sagittarius. 

iv) Completed years on 14-11-1946, 57 years: 
Muntha is in Aries. 

v) Completed years on 14-11-1963, 74 years: 
Muntha in Virgo. 


Significance of Muntha 

Muntha, like the lagna in any horoscope is of great 
significance in the annual horoscope. The result of the 
year will be according to its location in different. houses, 


Muntha 57 


its association with different planets and the disposition 
of the lord of sign in which Muntha is located (known as 
Munthesh) 
Muntha_ gives auspicious results if 
i) Muntha lord is exalted or is in its own house, 
iil) Is conjunct or aspected by benefics. 
i) Location of Muntha in 2, 9, 10 and 11 is good 
for financial prosperity and profession. * 
iv) Muntha is also good in 1, 3rd and 5th house, 
where besides other things person may also get 
a new job and will yield good results through 
personal efforts of the native. 
Adverse position for Muntha 
1) Muntha located in 6, 8, 12, 4 and 7 houses is 
considered inauspicious as mostly it gives bad results. 
Similarly, association of lord of Muntha with lords of 
6, 8, and 12 is not conducive to beneficial results. 
iil) Muntha lord (munthesh) is not good if it 1s debilitated, 
combust, and is placed in enemy's house. 
il) It is also adverse if it is with or is aspected by malefics. 
Results of Muntha in various Houses 
A well-placed and aspected Muntha strengthens 
the house it is in. Generally the results of Muntha 
in various houses are as follows. This is subject to 
aspects and association of various planets as well 
as the position of Muntha lord (munthesh) and its 
disposition. (This is similar to the position of E GesPositor 
in Parashari system.) 
Muntha in the Ist House 
Victory over enemies, high status or a new job, 
favours from rulers, financial gains and good health, 
name and fame. Y 
In the Annual horoscope of PV Narasimhan Rao for the 
year 1990, the Muntha is placed in the 1* house. His date 
of birth is 28" June 1921, Sunday, at 1:02 PM, Warmagal 
with Virgo Lagna. He became Prime Minister of India on 
" 21* June 1991. Muntha in the annual chart is in its own 
house with two benefics Sun and Jupiter. 


58 Varshaphala 


in the znd House ' 

Increase in income, financial gains, prosperity 
and happiness. Enjoyment of sweet food, health and 
happiness. 

According to Haayan Bhaskar, honour wealth 
govt. favour, increase in strength and good food. 
Rajiv Gandhi: Annual Chart 20.8. 1984. 1: 12: 45 PM: 
Prime Minister3 1; 10:1984 Complete 40 D.O.B. 20.8.1944 


Annual 
Horoscope 


1984 


In the annual horoscope of Rajiv Gandhi for the year 
1984 when he became Prime Minister of India (completed 
years 40 - lagna sign in the birth chart is Leo), Muntha 
was in the second house with its own lord Jupiter. It is 
in the 5‘" from birth lagna Leo. It has a friendly aspect 
from Sun 10™ lord and two benefics Mercury and Venus. 
Exalted Saturn is also aspecting it in a friendly manner. 


3rd House 
Victory, help from or prosperity to brothers, health, 


Muntha 59 


wealth and happiness, visiting religious places and 
profitable short trips and writings. 


| foromen mon | 
Lag Sat 


Annual 
Horoscope 1947 
1946 


In the annual horoscope for 1947 (completed 57 
years in 1946), the year in which Nehru became 
the first Prim Minister of Independent India the 
Muntha was in Aries third house. Its lord Mars was 
in its own 10" house with directional strength with 
political digbally planet Sun as also lord of 5, house 
of Ministership, Mercury and lord of Bhagya Venus. 
No wonder he achieved such a high status with so 
much fame. 
4th House 

Sickness and ill health, misunderstanding with 
relatives, mental disturbance. Physical ailment, fear from 
enemy. Loss of wealth, disgrace and displeasure of rulers. 
5th House 

Good for the birth of children and their prosperity, 
religious learning, and favours from government. 
Happiness, relaxation and honours. 
6th house i ’ 

Theft, enemies debt and diseases, accidents, 
litigation. 
7th House 

Misunderstanding with wife and her ill health, loss 
in partnership, failure, sickness and mental worry. 


60 Varshaphala 


1. . Assassination of Mahatma Gandhi.Birth 
Horoscope of Mahatma Gandhi 2nd October 1869 


Horoscope 


Mahatma 
Gandhi 


Lagna 11° 56', Sun 16° 55’, Moon 28° 15', Mars 
26° 23', Mer 11 ° 45’, Jupiter 28° 08', Venus 24° 26', 
:Saturn 20° 20', Rahu 12° 08' 
2. Assassination of Mahatma Gandhi 30.1.1948. 
Annual Horoscope for Year 4.10.1947 


Annual 1947 


Mahatma 
Gandhi 


2 
ah 
Moon 


Lagna 9 ° 17', Sun 16° 55" ,Moon 4° 07', Mars 8° 36’, 
Mer 10° 09’ , Jupiter 2° 57', Venus 25° 06', Saturn 
26° 18', Rahu 2° 24’ 


In the annual horoscope of Mahatma Gandhi the 
Muntha is in the adverse 7‘". Its lord Mars is debilitated 
in the 10" and is with Saturn and has the aspect of Ketu 
as well as Jupiter who has the lordship of 3 and six. The 
lord of the sign in which Munthesh Mars is Moon in the 


Muntha . 61 


8" under Rahu Ketu axis. Three planets are squaring 
Muntha, Mars, Saturn and Mercury from lagna. 
8th House 

Accidents, litigation, loss, theft, court cases and 
chronic sickness, fear from enemies and thieves ruin 
of wealth & virtue, difficulties. ; 

India suffered a humiliating defeat at the hands 
of Chinese in 1962. It was a personal defeat of Nehru 
whose whole fabric of foreign policy of universal 
brotherhood, non alignment non alignment and Hindi 
Chini Bhai Bhai fell in shambles. It was end of Nehruvian 
idealism. He never recovered from this shock. 
Annual Horoscope for Nehru 1961 


Annual 
Horoscope 1961 


Muntha was in the 8" aspected aS 8th lord Moon 
in Rahu Ketu axis and aspected by Saturn 2nd lord 
with debilitated Lagna lord. 
9th house 

Good fortune, financial gains, fruitful travels, 
fame/and prosperity. 
10th House 

High status, fame and prosperity. Fulfillment of 
ambition, name and recognition. 
1ith House 

Gains and happiness help from friends and benefactors, 
political success and fulfillment of desires. 
12th House 

Sickness, accidents, Sxpeidiure: jail, wastage and 
bad health. 


62 Varshaphala 


These results are also modified with Muntha's 
association/aspects with other planets or the rasis 
represented. 


Role of Muntha Lord or Munthesh 
Indira Gandhi Annual Chart for the Year 1974. 
Fall from Power and Humiliation: 


1975 was the year of humiliation for Indira Gandhi. 
This is the year when Allahabad Court Judgement 
came and Emergency was imposed on 26.6.1975. 


Dasha was of Saturn Mercury i n Vimshottari- 
Mercury is the 12th lord in the birth horoscope while 
Saturn was 8th lord. 


Annual Chart: 20.11.1974 Indira Gandhi Annual Chart 1974 


Indira Gandhi 
Annual Chart 


1974 


Sun 4°08', Moon 16°50’: Mars 22°10': Mer 18°09'" 
Ven 7°35': Jup 14°57', Sat 25°02’ (R), Rah 17°17’. 


Here Muntha is in the 2n house with its lord or 
Munthesh, Mars placed in the adverse 81. 
Muntha 


With well-placed Sun it gives high status, favours 
from government or success in politics, health wealth 
and status. The good results follow if Muntha is in Leo 
aspected by or associated with Sun. 


Muntha 63 


The results may be opposite if Sun is afflicted. 
Moon 

Muntha in Cancer sign or associated with Moon 
gives wealth, happiness, romance, popularity and 
public relations. Afflicted Moon gives opposite results 
and mental disturbance. 
Mars 

In the signs of Mars or with Mars it gives accident, 
surgical operation, fear from weapons, theft and fire. 
Mercury 

In the signs of Mercury or associated with Mercury 
one gets academic achievement, success in art or 
commerce, wealth, favours from opposite sex, good 
health etc. These results are modified if it has aspect 
of malefic planets. 
Jupiter 

Muntha in the signs of Jupiter or associated with 
Jupiter is good. One gets children, happiness, 
success, and wealth. 
Venus 

Marriage, success with women, name and wealth. 
Saturn 

Muntha in the sign of Saturn or otherwise 
associated with it by conjunction or aspect the native 
falls sick and suffers from windy diseases. He loses 
his property, suffers losses from fire or theft. 


Rahu and Muntha 
Face or Mukha of Rahu 

Rahu has an indirect motion i.e. instead of its 
moving from 0 degree to 30 degree in a rasi, it moves 
from 30 degrees to O-degree i.e., in the reverse 
direction. Suppose it is located in a rasi at 14 degrees, 
then it moves to 13, 12; 11 degrees and so on. 


According to Neelkantha the degrees Rahu_ has 
transitted in a sign is his back and the degrees yet to be 


64 Varshaphala 


traversed is his face and 7"  signfrom where itis placed ists 

tail. In short if Rahu is in Taurus sign at 20 degrees. 

After 20 it will go to 19, 18, 17 degrees and so on.. It 

means Rahu has yet to traverse 20 to O degree in 

Taurus which is its mouth and the 10 degrees he 

has already transitted are his back. The 7m sign 

from Taurus is Vrischik, which is his tail. 

If Muntha is in the face of Rahu, it is good position, 
and if connected with benefics like Jupiter and Venus, 
it gives plenty of wealth and happiness. If Muntha is 
in the back of Rahu it leads to all kinds of difficulties 
and obstructions. There is danger from enemies and 
trouble. If it is aspected by malefics there is loss of 
wealth and happiness. 

The location of Muntha with Ketu is not desirable. 
It is especially so if aspected or associated with 
malefics. It leads to all kind of losses , set backs and 
mental agony. 

Some Rules of Prediction 

1. Ifthe planet who is lord of the Ascendant in the 
birth horoscope, becomes also lord of Muntha sign 
as well as lord of the Ascendant of the annual 
horoscope and is placed in a kendra, it becomes 
very powerful and during its dasha gives best 
possible results relating to its signification and. 
lordship. 

2. If the lord of the Muntha occupies a sign held by 
him in the birth horoscope and is not afflicted, it 
is capable of giving excellent results in the 
beginning and at the end of the year. 

3. If the lord of Muntha occupies 6m, 8m or 12 th or 
4n house from lagna or is combust or is afflicted 
by malefics or is in the 4m or 7m sign from the 
sign occupied by malefics the person suffers 
from serious illness and loses wealth. 

4. If the Muntha lord is conjunct the 8m lord or has 
inimical aspect to it the results are evil. This may 
even lead to death. Condition of Muntha lord 


Muntha 65 


would show nature of illness. If the conjunction 
is in 6, 8 or lagna death may occur. 

The sign occupied by the Muntha in the progressed 
chart should be judged also in the birth chart. 
For itis assumed that Muntha in the birth chart 
is in the same sign as it is in Varshphala and 
judge the position. If Muntha or its lord is 
conjoined or aspected by benefics in the birth 
chart and not in the Varsha horoscope there will 
be good results in the beginning of the year. If 
Muntha or Muntha lord is associated with 
benefics in the Varsha chart good results will 
take place towards later part of the year. 


Chapter-V 
Balas 
or 
Planetary Strength 


Parashara has an elaborate system of measuring the 
strength of planets, by making use of vargas (Zodiac 
consists of 360° or 12 rasis of 30° each. Each rasi or sign is 
further subdivided into number of divisions. These divisions 
are called Vargas). 

The timing of events and successful predictions of Indian 
astrologers are because of the extensive use of Vargas. 
The use of Vargas is missing in Western astrology. It is 
probably for this reason that their timings are not so 
accurate as that of Indian astrologers; Basically, Vargas 
are used to measure the strength of planets. As it is well 
known principle of Astrology that only strong planets are 
capable of giving good results. The weak planets not only 
fail to deliver results of their signification but spoil the 
results of the bhava where they are placed or the bhavas 
over which they transit To give an example the 5th lord 
represents, among other things, education. Ifthis 5th lord 
of the birth horoscope keeps repeating in various vargas in 
its own house, sign of exaltation or in friend's house the 
achievements in the educational field of the person 
concerned would be really high. (Vargas under Parashari 
system have been discussed in details in my book 
‘Analyzing horoscope through Modem Techniques) 

While Parashara uses 16 type of Vargas and has 
elaborate system of measuring strength of planets, the 
Tajak writers use three kind of Balas for measuring 
relative strength and weakness of planets 

I) Dwadasvargeeya Bala - this is most elaborate 
though less employed method. 

) Harsh Bala- This is a simpler method to determine 


Balas or Planetary Strength 67 


strength of the planets. 

Il) Panchvargeeya Bala. - this is the most popular 
method for determining Lord of the Year. 
DWADASVARGEEYA BALA 

Dwadas mean twelve. 12 types of vargas or division 
of a sign are used. These are arrived at by taking into 
account location of planets in 12 different vargas which 
are :- 

Rasi D-1 2. Hora D-2 

Drekkan D-3 4. Chaturthamsa D-4 
Panchamsa D-5 6. Shashtamsa D-6 
SaptamsaD-7 8. Ashtamsa D-8 
Navamsa_ D-9 10. Dasamsa D-10 
Ekadasamsa D-11 12. Dwadasamsa D -12 
1. RAST (D-l) 

This is the basic and most important chart, which 
is also known as birth horoscope, or in this case 
annual horoscope. It is different from the word rashi 
normally used in Hindu astrology which denotes the 
sign in which Moon is placed at birth. Each sign of the 
Zodiac of 360° is divided into 12 sign of 30° each. The 
first rasi starts from Aries. The mutual relationship 
of planets here determine whether a planet is 
benefic, malefic or neutral. 

Annual rasi chart for horoscope of Pt. J.L. Nehru 
for year 1946-1947 is as follows: 

Pt JL Nehru: 16:11:1946.13:45:19 hrs 


Soo 


68 Varshaphala 


Asd Sun Moon Mars’ Mercury Jupiter 
23°57' 0° 16° S°S51' 13°49" 12°04 18° 03' 
Venus Saturn Rahu 
2°36' 15°44' 19°27' 
2. HORA 

It is the division of a sign in two parts of 15 degrees 
each. In odd signs 1,3,5, 7, 9 and 11, the first 15 degrees 
go to the Hora of Sun, while the last 15° go to hora of 
Moon. In even sign 2, 4, 6, 8, 10 and 12 this process is 
reversed. The first 15 degrees go to Moon while last 15 
degrees go to Sun. 

The Hora Chart 


Signs> 1 2 #3 #4 #5 #6 7 8 9 10 1 12 
Degrees 
0-15° Sun Moon Sun Moon Sun Moan Sun Moon Sun Moan Sun Moon '' 


15-30° Moon Sun Moon Sun Moon Sun Moon Sun Moon Sun Moon Sun 
Example 


Suppose in a horoscope the Sun is in Libra rasi 
with longitude of 18 degrees, 07 minutes. Since Libra 
is in odd rasi, and in odd rasis 15 to 30 degrees go 
to Hora of Moon, Sun is in Hora of Moon. Again if 
Moon is in Cancer rasi with' 12 degrees, 5 minutes 
and since Cancer is even sign, and in even signs first 
15 degrees go to Moon, Moon is in its own hora. And 
if Mars were in Leo rasi with 10 degrees 2 minutes, 
Mars would be in Sun's hora as in odd rasis first 15 
degrees go to Sun. 


Pt. J. L Nehru's Annual Horoscope for 1946- 47: 


Ascendant is in odd sign Aquarius It is at 23 
degrees, 57 minutes. In odd rasis 15 to 30 degrees 
belong to Moon. Therefore, Ascendant is in the Hora 
of Moon. Sun is even rasi, Scorpio with 0°16 ‘and 
since in even rasis first 15 degrees belong to Moon, 
Sun is in the hora of Moon.Moon is in odd rasi Leo 
with 05° 15’, therefore, it isin Sun's hora. Mars would 
be In Moon' hora and so on. The final position of 
planets in hora chart would be as follows : 


Balas or Planetary Strength 69 


Hora Chart: 


Sun’ Hora Moon's Hora 

Moon Ascendant 

Saturn Sun 

Rahu Mars 

Ketu Mercury ° 
Jup 


3. DREKKAN (D-3) 

Each sign consists of 30° which is divided into three 
parts of 10° each, 1 to 10 degrees are in the Ist 
drekkan, 10° to 20° degrees in second and those which 
are from 20° to 30° degrees belong to third drekkan. 
Planets/ Lagna falling in the first drekkan belong 
to sign itself, the second drekkan are in the sign 
Sth from it and the third drekkan is in the sign 9th 
from it.The lords of the respective signs become the 
drekkana lords. 

Example ; Nehru Annual horoscope 1946- 47 

The Ascendant is Aquarius of 23° 57'. Therefore, it 
is in 3rd drekkan.The third drekkan falls in the sign 
9th from it. The 9th from Aquarius is Libra. The 
Ascendant of drekkan would be Libra.The Sun is in 
Scorpio with 0°16', and hence in first drekkan. The 
first drekkan falls in the sign itself.In drekkan chart 
Sun would be in Scorpio, the first sign of its location. 
Moon isin Leo with 05°51', and hence in Ist Drekkan. 
The first drekkan falls in 1 st from the location of the 
planet, which in this case is Leo.In a similar way 
Mars in second drekkan at 13°49" would be in the sign 
5th from it i.e. in Pisces. In the same way rest of the 
planets are put in drekkan chart, which would be as 
follows as per chart. 


Drekkan Chart 
Signs 1 2 3 4 7 8 9 10 I1 12 
1. 0-10° 1 2 3 4 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 


2. 20°-30° 5 6 7 8 10 11 12 1 2 3 4 
. 20°-30° 9 10 11 12 23 4 5 6 7 8 


70 Varshaphala 
Drekkan Chart, Annual Horoscope JL Nehru 


Sat Sun 
Ven 
8 


Ox 


LENS \ 


Each sign of 30 degrees is divided into 4 parts of 7° 
30’ each. First part of planets/lagna falling from 1 
degree to 7° 30' falls in the sign itself. 2nd part 7°30 to 
15° degrees fall in the sign 4th from it. The third part 
15° to 22 ° 30' degrees falls in the sign 7th from it. The 
fourth part 22 ° 30' to 30 ° degrees fall in the sign 
10th from it. 

Example: In Nehru's Annual horoscope lagna is in 
Aquarius at 23 ° 57’. It is, therefore, in the 4th part and 
hence in 10th from it The 10th from Aquarius is Scorpio, 
therefore, lagna of Chaturthamsa would be in Scorpio.Sun 
is in lst part of Chaturthamsa, hence it will be located in 
the same sign i.e. Scorpio.Moon in Leo again would be in 
the same sign in Chaturthamsa in Leo.Mars with 13 ° 40' 
is in the second part, so it would be in the sign 4th from its 
location from Scorpio and hence would be in 
Aquanius. Similarly place the other planets in the chart, 
the final position would be as follows: 


Chaturthamsa Chart 


Signs 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 
0°-7°30' 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 
7 30'- 15° 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 

15° -22° SO" 7 8 9 10 11 12 

22° 50 -30° 10 11 12 1 2 


SZ 


i 
os 
3. 
4. 


Balas or Planetary Strength 71 


5. PANCHAMSA 
Each sign of 30° of is composed of 5 parts of 6° each. 
In old signs the Ist, 2nd, 3rd, 4th, 5th parts are 
ruled by Mars, Saturn, Jupiter, Mercury and Venus 
respectively and in even signs the reverse holds good. 
Please See the chart below. 
Panchamsa Chart 


Degrees Odd Signs Even Signs 
1,3,5,7,9,11 2,4,6,8,10,12 
Lords Lords 
0-6° Mars Ven 
6°-12° Sat Mer 
12°-18° Jup Jup 
18°-24° Mer Sat 
24°-30° Ven Mar 


A planet/lagna placed in odd sign at birth will 
continue being in odd sign in D/5, while a planet/lagan in 
even sign will continue to the in even sign. 


72 Varshaphala 


With the help of this chart ifwe locate the ascendants 
and planets in Panchamsa Chart it would be as above. 
6. SHASHTAMSA (D-6) 

A sign is divided into 6 parts of 5 degrees each. In 
odd signs the counting starts from Aries, and in even 
from Libra. 

Shashtamsa Chart 


Signs > 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 
1. 0-5° 17 1 7 ft 7 Lt 7 1 7 1 7 
2. S°-10° 2 8 2 8 2 8 2 8 2 8 2 8 
3. 10°-15° 3 9 3 9 3 9 3 9 3 9 3 9 
4. 15°-20° 4 10 4 10 4 10 4 10 4 10 4 10 
5. 20°-25° 5 11 5 14 5 11 5 11 +5 1165 «211 
6. 25° 30° 6 12 6 12 6 12 6 12 6 12 6 12 


Example: In Nehru's Annual horoscope the ascendant 
is in Aquarius at 23° 57' and hence in the 5th part As 
Aquarius is odd sign counting would start from Aries sign 
itself. The 5th from Aries is Leo. Hence Shashtamsa lagna 
would be Leo. With the help of chart of Shashtamsa plant 
the other planets. This would be as follows: 


Shashtyamsa Chart 


7. SAPTAMSA (D-7) 


Each sign of 30 degrees is divided into 7 parts of 4° 17' 
08" each. In odd signs counting starts from the sign it- 


Balas or Planetary Strength 73 


self whereas in even signs counting starts 7th from 
the sign where the planet or lagna falls. 


Saptamsa Chart 


Signs > 12 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 
1. 4° 17D8" 1 8 3 10 5 12 7 2 9 4 11 6 
2. 8°3417" 2 9 411 6 1 8 3 10 5 12 7 
3. 12° SP25" 3 10 5 12 7 2 9 4 11 6 1 «8 
4. 17° 8'34" 4 11 6 1 8 3 10 5 12 7 2 9 
5. 21°25'43' 5 12 7 2 9 4 11 6 1 8 3 10 
6. 25° 42°51" 6 1 8 3 10 5 12 7 2 9 4 I 
7. 30° 00 7 2 9 4 11 6 1 8 3 10 5 12 


The ascendant in example horoscope is 23°57'. 
With the help of Chart above, the Saptamsa Chart 


would be as follows: 
Moon 


8. ASHTAMSA (D-8) 


Each sign is divided into 8 equal parts of 3°45' each. 
In movable signs (signs 1, 4, 7 and 10), the counting 
starts from. Aries. 


In fixed signs (2, 5, 8, & 11), the counting starts 
from Saggitarius. 


In dual signs (3, 6,9, & 12), the counting starts from Leo. 


74 Varshaphala 


Signs > 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 

Degrees + 
1, 3°45'° LQ Be TW) AGE Shee 9S 1 9 5 
2. 7 30' 2 10 6 2 10 6 2 10 6 +2 10 6 
3. 11° 15° 3 11 7 3 11 7 *3 11° 47 3S IW 7 
4. 15° 00' 4 12 8 4 12 8 4 12 8 4 12 8 
5. 18° 45' 5 1 9% S&S FF 9 3S Ff 9 & T 9 
6. 22° 30' 6 2 10 6 2 10 6 2 10 6 2 10 
7, 26° 15° 7 3 11 7 3 11 =7 «3 I-67 = 3 ~«(«1 
8. 30° 00° 8 4 12 8 4 12 8 4 12 8 4 12 


Mer Rah Lag 
Mar Ket 
Ashtamsa 5 


Jup 

Moon Sat 
Sun 
Ven 


9. NAVAMSA (D-9) 


This is the most important Varga. Much of the 
credit of success of Hindu Astrology goes to navamsa. 
This chart should be treated at par with birth horoscope 
and chart with Moon as lagna. No prediction should 
be given in any sphere of life, particularly on 
marriage without consulting this chart. This chart 
clearly shows the strength and weakness of 
planets. 


Each sign of 30 degrees of the zodiac has been 
divided into nine parts consisting of 3 degrees and 20 
minutes. This has correlation with one fourth part ofa 
nakshatra consisting of 13 degrees, 20 minutes, and 


Balas or Planetary Strength 75 


is called a pada constituting again 3 degrees 20 minutes 
(Nakshatras are 27 in number, and if we divide the 
zodiac of 360 degrees by 27, we get arc of one nakshatra 
equal to 13° 20’). 


There are various methods of making a navamsa 
chart. Here we give the easiest one, so that this 
could be easily memorized. 


Since each navamsa consists of 3° 20', first ascertain 
which navamsa a planet or lagna is by seeing its 
longitude. For example 1st navamsa is from 0 to 3°20', 
second from 3° 20' to 6° 40', 3rd from 6° 40' to 10°, 4th 
from 10°00' to 13°20' degrees and so on. Remember 
3rd navamsa finishes at 10 degrees, 6th finishes at 
20 degrees, rest is easy. 


Example 


A planet is having longitude of 22 ° 40'. Since 6 
finish at 20 degrees, and one navamsa is of 3°20". 
planet is in the 7th navamsa. Now start counting as 
follows 


i) In movable rasis, (1, 4, 7 and 10; Aries, Cancer, 
Libra and Capricorn) the counting starts from 
rasi itself i.e. where the planet is located, 


ii) In Fixed rasis (2, 5, 8 and 11) the counting starts 
from 9th place from its location, 


iii) In dual signs (3, 6, 9 12) the counting starts from 
the 5th position. 


Example 


II Method 


Work out position of lagna and planets with the 
help of chart on next page. 


Importance of Navamsa 


According to Phaladeepika if lord of the Ascendant 
is strong in Navamsa one attains all types of happiness. 


76 Varshaphila 


Vargotamma Navamsa 


The meaning of vargotamma planet has been 
explained. The first navamsa ofa movable sign, middle 
one of the fixed sign and last one ofthe dual sign are 
called vargottam. According to Hora Ratnam one bom 
with such a Navamsa Ascendant will be the chief of 
his race, means he will be very prosperous. 

The planets in the first navamsa in movable rasis, 
5th in fixed rasi, and 9th in dual are vargottam. It 
means these are in the same rasi in navamsa as in 
the birth horoscope. 


Navamsa Chart 


Signs— 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 

Degrees 4- 
1. T to3°20' 1 10 4 110 7 4 #1 «10 4 
2. 3° 20°-6 *40’ 211 8 5 2 11 8 5 2 12 5 
3. 6°40'-10°00 3 12 9 6 3 12 9 6 3 12 9 6 
4, 10°-13° 20' 4 110 7 4 110 7 4 #110 #7 
5. 13°20'-16°40° 5 2 11 8 5 211 8 5 2 11 8 
6. 16° 40-20°00° 6 3 12 9 6 3 12 9 6 3 12 9 
7, 20° 00-23° 40" 7 4 1 10 7 4 #110 7 4 «1 «10 
8. 23°-26° 40' 8 65 i 8 5 2 11 8 5 2 I1 
9. 26°40'-30° 9 6 12 9 6 3 12 9 6 3 12 


Navamsa Chart in the example horoscope 


Navamsa 


Balas or Planetary Strength 77 


10. DASAMSA (D-10) 


Each sign’ of 30 degrees is divided in 10 parts of 3° 
each. In odd signs counting starts from the sign itself. 
In even signs the counting is done from the 9th house 
from where the planet is posited. 


In the annual horoscope the ascendant is 23° 
57'.Each part of 3 degrees means the ascendant is in 
8th part. Since ascendant is odd sign, counting 8th 
from Aquarius would be Virgo, which is lagna of 
dasamsa. Rest of the chart can be constructed in 
similar way or with the help of Chart provided. 

Dashamsa Chart 


Signs —> 1 2 3 of 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 

Degrees 4 
1. 0°-3° 1 10 3. 12 5 2 7 4 9 6 11 8 
Zs 3°-6° 2 Ill 4 1 6 3. 8 5 10 7 12 9 
3. 6°-9° 3 12 5 2 7 4 9 6 ll 8 1 10 
4. 9-12° 4 1 6 3 8 5 10 7 12 9 2 11 
5. 12°-15° 5 2 7 4 9 6 11 8 1 10 3. 12 
6. 15°-18° 6 3 8 5 10 7 12 9 2 11 4 1 
7. 18°-2V 7 4 9 6 11 8 1 10 3° 12 5 2 
8. 21°-24° 8 5 10 7 12 9 2 Ii 4 1 6 3 
9. 24°-27° 6 11 8 1 10 3 “12 5 Z 7 4 
10. 27°-30° 10 7 12 9 2 Ii 4 1 6 3 8 5 


Dashamsa 
D/10 


Mer 
Mar 


B Varshaphala 


11. EKADASAMSA (D-1) 


Each sign is divided into 11 parts of 2° 43' 38". In 
any sign the lord of llth governs the Ekdasamsa. 
The first Ekadasamsa for sign Aries, however, is 
Aries and continues in regular order. The 1ltn 
ekadamsa will end at Aquarius. Therefore, the first 
Ekadasamsa of Taurus would start from Pisces and 
end in Capricorn and so on. Hence Taurus should 
start from Pisces i.e. lord of 11"from it. Similarly 
Gemini would start from Aquarius and so on. 


Ekadasamsa Chart 


Signs > 


Degrees 4 


0°-2°43'38" 
5° 27'16" 
8° 10'54" 
10° 5432" 
13° 38711" 
16° 21749" 
19° S’27" 
21° 495" 
24° 32'44" 
27° 16'22" 


30° 


Balas or Planetary Strength 


12. DWADAMSA (D-12) 


79 


Each sign of 30 degrees is divided into 12 parts of 
2° 30' each. The counting starts from the sign itself 
where the planet is located. 


Dwadamsa Chart 


Signs > 

Degrees + 
1. 0°-2° 30’ 
2. 2°30',-5°0' 
3. S° 0-7" 30 


4. 7° 30'-10° 
5.  10°-12° 30' 
6. 12* 30'-15° 
7.  15°=17° 30° 
8. 17° 30'-20° 


9. 20°-22° 30 


10. 22°30 25°00 


8 


9 


10 
11. 25* 00-27°30' 11 


12. 27° 30'-30°00" 12 


12 


11 


12 


10 


11 12 
11 12 
12 1 
1 2 
2 3 
3 4 
4 5 
5 6 
6 7 
7 8 
8 9 
9 10 
10 11 


80 Varshaphala 


Relation between Planets and Vargas 


A planet in a horoscope can be in its own house, 
in the house of a friend, in a neutral house or in 
the house of an enemy. 


Who is an enemy and who is a friend? 
The opinion here is divided. 
I. The traditional school 


The traditional school is the follower of 
Parashara, according to which the table of friendship/ 
enmity etc. is as follows: 


Planets’ Friends Enemies Neutrals 


Sun Moon, Mars,Jup Ven, Sat Mer 
. Moon Sun, Mer Nil Rest 
. Mars Sun, Moon, Jup Mer Ven, Sat 
. Mercury Sun, Ven Moon Mars, Jup, Sat 


. Venus Mer, Ven Sun, Moon Mars, Jup 


. Saturn Mer, Ven Sun, Moon, Jup, Mars 


1. 

2 

3 

4 

5. Jupiter Sun, Moon, Mars Mer, Ven Sat 
6 

7 

Il. 


Keshav, an ancient classic on Tajak uses a simple 
method, followed by many other classical writers. 
According to this there are eight planets, Rahu 
included. These have been divided into two 
categories I and II as follows : 


Balas or Planetary Strength 81 


Category I Category II 
Sun, Moon, Mars, Mercury, Venus, Saturn, 
Jupiter Rahu 


Planets in category I are friends of each other, 
and are enemies of planets in Category II. 


Similarly planets in Category II are friends of each 
other, and are enemies of planets in Category L. 


IH.The most authoritative work on Tajik is by 
Neelkantha. He does not refer to natural mutual 
relation of planets. According to him there is no 
natural or temporal friendship, but friendship arises 
by mutual placement. We are inclined to agree 
with this view, as this is based on concept ofaspects 
in Western astrology. As Tajik uses Yogas which 
are more akin to western applying and separating 
principles, so it stands to reason that we should 
be using Western aspects also. 

Friendly Aspects: 

According to Neelkantha if planets are placed 5 
and 9 or 3 or 11 to each other they have friendly 
aspect which mean success in achieving aims. It 
means planets are friends of each other. 

This will be clear from the example horoscope. 
Here planets Saturn and Sun, mutual enemies are 
place 5/9 to each other, therefore, for this horoscope 
they are friends. 


82 Varshaphala 


Neutral Aspects 


Planets placed in 6 and 8 or 2 and 12 to each other 
are neutral indicating success. In the example horoscope 
Saturn and Moon are in a position 2/12 to each other 
hence neutral with each other. Jupiter and Sun, Jupiter 
and Venus, Jupiter and Mercury, and Jupiter and Mars 
are placed in 2/12 to each other and hence neutral to 
each other. 


Inimical Aspects 


Planets placed in 1, 4, 7 and 10 to each other are 
enemies. Their aspects signify fear and disappointment 

Conjunction causes destruction and disappointment 

Planets have also their own orbs. Sun 15°, Moon 
12°, Mars 8°, Mercury 7°, Jupiter 9°, Venus 7° and 
Saturn 9°. The planets aspect each other if they 
are within these orbs. But Neelkantha is of the 
opinion that a partial aspect would still exist even 
though the planets are not within orbs. 


Example (Immaginary) 
Suppose Sun and Jupiter are both posited in the . 

same sign. Sun is of 3 degree, while Jupiter is of 24 

degrees. This could be partial conjunction. In this 

book we will ignore partial aspects. 

Planets and Vargas 


Planets can be in its own Varga, or that of a friend, 
neutral or enemy’ varga 


Own varga will be called — O 
Friendly varga will be _ B (or benefic) 
Neutral varga would be, — N 
Enemy's varga would be — M (or malefic) 


Planets give good results if they are in their own 
or friendly vargas. They cause harm if they are more 
in enemy's varga. In neutral vargas they are neither 
good nor bad. 


Balas or Planetary Strength 83 


Mutual Relationship Horoscope of the Planets in 
the Example 


Planet _| Friends [ Enemies | Newtals 


| Sun Saturn Moon, Mars] Jupiter 
Mer, Ven 


Moon Jupiter Sun, Mars Saturn 
Mer, Ven 

Mars Saturn Moon, Sun Jupiter 
Mer, Ven 


Mercury Saturn Moon, Mars Jupiter 
Sun, Ven 


Jupiter Moon Saturn Sun, Mars, 
| Mercury, Venus} 


Venus Saturn Moon, Mars Jupiter 
Mer, Sun 


Saturn Sun, Ven | Jupiter Moon 
Mer, Mars 


DWADASVARGEEYA BALA 


Keeping these in view let us work Dwadasvargeeya 
Bala in the example horoscope. 


Dwadasavargiya Bala Of Planets 


argas Sun Moon Mars Mercury Jupiter Venus Saturn 
1. Rasi D-1 M M B M N . M . N 
2. HoraD-20 M M ™M M BM B 
3. DrekkanD-3 M M N N M MB 
4, Chatur-D-4 thamsa M M B B N M B 
5. Panchamsa D-5 M M N N N. B M 
6. Shashtamsa D-6 M B N N B B B 
7. Saptamsa D-7 M M: M M M B B 
8. Ashtamsa D-9 N N N N N N B 
9. Navamsa D-9 M B B M B M B 
10.Dasamsa D-10 M M B M N M B 


84 Varshaphala 


Vargas ~~—~—~*S*«S«sMcoon’ Maar Mercury Jupiter Venus Saturn 
ll.EkadasamsaD/11M NB BN MB 
12.Dwadamsa D/12 M M B N° N N B 
Total Malefic M 11 9 2 5 2 7 1 
Benefic B Nil 1 6 2 3 3 10 
Neutral 1 2 4 5 7 2 1 


M means Malefic : B means benefic : and N stands for 
Neutral vargas. 

Good and bad Vargas : Good vargas are those of 
own and signs of exaltation, while vargas belonging 
to enemy are malefic and bad. Again there is some 
controversy about sign of exaltation, because a 
planet is exalted in some other planet's sign, Mars 
for example is exalted in Saturn's sign, Saturn is 
natural enemy of Mars as per Parashari system and 
may also be enemy in the annual horoscope if placed 
in conjunction or 4/10 position. 


Note : There are some astrologers notably B.V. 
Raman amongst them who are inclined to use 
relationship as prescribed by Parashar. 


PANCHAVARGEEYABALA 


This is a method by which numerical strength ofa 
planet can be determined and lord of,the Year chosen, 
which is an important concept in Tajak. Five factors 
are considered. 


These are location of a planet in its own house or 
of another planet depending upon relation between 
two :- 

1. Kshetrabala Bala : Placement of a planet in its 
own house, enemy's house etc. : Maximum Units 
allotted are 30 is 

Ochabala Bala : Ocha means exaltation .By this 
method strength due to exaltation of a planet is 
determined. ; 


~ 


Balas or Planetary Strength 85 


Maximum Units allotted are 20 
3. Haddabala Bala: Strength due to placement within 
certain rasis. This system is pecular to Taj ak. 
Maximum Units allotted are 15 
4. Drekkan Bala : Strength due to placement in 
drekkan. This is slight variation from drekkan used 
in Parashari system. 
Maximum Units allotted are 10 
5. Navamsabala Bala : Strength of a planet due to 
placement in navamsa.Navamsa is the same varga 
as used by Parashara. 
Maximum Units allotted are 5 
VISHWA BALA 
The strength of a planet in PanchVargiya Bala in 
terms of units is called Vishwabala. This is obtained 
by dividing the total strength by four. 
Let us see how these Balas or strength is 
calculated. 
1. KSHETRABALA OR GRAHA BALA 
Kshetrabala, residential strength or graha bala is 
strength of a planet by virtue ofits location in a rasi, in its 
own house, that of a friend or in the house ofa neutral 
planet. 
1. Ifa planet is situated in its own rasi - Swakshetra, 
it gets 30 Units. 
2. If a planet is situated in a friend's rasi -Mittra 
Kshetra it gets 22.30 Units, or 22.50.* 
3. If.a Planet is situated in a neutral rasi-it gets 15 
* Units. 
4. If a planet is situated in an enemy's rasi Shatru 
Kshetra it gets 7.30 Units or 7.50. 
*Note: Units can be converted either by decimal 
use or by treating 1°=60' and IT = 60". 


86 Varshaphala 
Annual Horoscope for Pt J.L Nehru for 16 Novembe 


1946. 
Pt JL Nehru Annual Horoscope 1946-47 


Annual 


Horoscope 


Planets Nature of Rasi Kshetrabala 


1. Sun Enemy Rasi 7.50 
2. Moon Enemy Rasi 7.50 
3. Mars Own Rasi 30.0 
4. Mercury Enemy Rasi 7350 
5. Jupiter Neutral Rasi 15.00 
6. Venus Enemy Rasi 7.50 
7. Saturn Neutral 15.00 
2. Oocha or Uchcha Bala 


This is the strength of a planet due to its exaltation. 
The Deep Exaltation of Planets are as follows : 


Planet Degree of Deep Degree of deep 


Exaltation Debilitation 
Sun Aries 10° Libra 6s 10° or 190° 
Moon Taurus 3 ° Scorpio 7s 3° or 213° 
Mars Capricorn 28° Cancer 3s 28' or 118° 
Mercury Virgo 15° Pisces 11s 15° or 345° 


Jupiter Cancer 5 ° Capricorn 9s 5 ° or 275° 


Balas or Planetary Strength 87 


Planet Degree of Deep Degree of deep 


Exaltation Debilitation 
Verius Pisces 27° Virgo 5s 27° or 177° 
Saturn Libra 20 ° Aries 20 ° Os 20 ° or 20 ° 


A planet in deep exaltation gets 20 units in Uchcha 
bala and in deep debilitation gets 0 degree. 

180 degrees from the point of deep exaltation is 
the point of deep fall. So 180 degrees = 20 units or 9 
degrees = 1 unit. 


Calculation of Oochabala 


The idea is to find out how much away a planet 
is from its debilitation point, divide it by 9 and you 
get the Oochabala 

Formula : (Longitude of the planet - Its debilitation 
point)/9 = Oochcha bala 
i) If the longitude of the planet cannot be subtracted 

from the debilitation point add 12 rasis to longitude 

of planet. 

ii) If the resultant figure is more than 6 rasis, deduct 
this from 12 rasis. Convert into degree and minutes 
and divide this by 9.If we don't do this the Oochabala 
would become more than 20 units and as such 
in violation of the scheme of calculation. 

Example 


In the example horoscope the calculations of each 
planet would be as follows : 


Oochabal of Sun 


Sun' longitude = “Je, O° 16! 
Subtract its debilitation point = 6s 10° OO! 
= 0; 20° 16) 


Divide, this by 9 we get 2 .15, which is the oochabal 
of Sun. 


88 Varshaphala 


Oochabal of Moon 


Longitude of Moon = 4° 05° ST 
Subtract debilitation point of Moon = 7 03° 00’ 
= 9° 02° 51’ 


(Since subtraction is not possible add 12 rasis to longitude 
of Moon which makes it equal to signs 16s 05° 51) 

Since 9s 02°51’ is more than 6 rasis ; subtract 9s 02°5T 
from 12 rasis -refer to rule earlier 


= 12s 00 00 
= (-)9s 02° 51’ 
= 2 27 09 
= 87° Q9' 
Divide it by 9 and we get = 9 : 41 


The Oocha bala of remaining planets would be 
Oochabal of Mars 
Longitude of Mars = 7s 13° 49° 


Subtract debilitation point of Mars = 3s 28° = 0" 
= 3s 15° 49' 

Divide it by 9 we get 

Oochbala of Mars = I1: 45 

Oochabal of Mercury 

Longitude of Mercury = 7s 12° 04' 

Subtract debilitation 

point of Mercury = lls 15° 00' 


= 7s 27° OF 
(add 12 rasis to longitude of Mercury) 
Subtract 7s 27° 04' from 12 rasis as 7 rasis is more 
than 6 ; 
=: 4s Q2° 56' 
Divide it by 9 we get Oochbala of Mercury = 13 :39 
Oochabal of Jupiter 


Longitude of Jupiter = 6s 18° Q3' 

Subtract debilitation 

point of Jupiter ° = Os 05 00 
= .9s 13° Q3' 

Subtract this from 12 we get = 2s 17° 00 


Divide it by 9 we get Oochbala of Jupiter = 8:33 


Balas or Planetary Strength 89 


Oochabal of Venus 


Longitude of Venus = 7s 02° 36' 
Subtract debilitation point of Venus = 5s -27° QO' 
| = 1s 05°.36' 


Divide it by 9 we get Oochbala of Venus = 3: 57 
Oochabalof Saturn 


Longitude of Saturn = 3s 16° 12' 
Subtract debilitation point of Saturn = Os 20° O00 
= 28-26" 112 


Divide it by 9 we get Oochbala of Saturn = 9 : 34 
HADDA BALA OR HUDDA BALA 


It is more or less like Trimsamsa. Certain 
degrees are allotted to each planets in‘’a particular 
sign. For example in sign Aries degrees allotted are 
as follows:- 


Sign Degrees Ruler 

Aries 0 to 6° Jupiter 
O° 10: 12? Venus 
12° to 20° Mercury 
20° to: 25° Mars 
25° to 30° Saturn 


The table below shows how to work out Hadda 
Chart. 


HADDA BALA 


Hadda in Arabic means limit. All the planets 
with the exception of Sun and Moon (Rahu and Ketu 
do not count) have been allotted lords within certain 
limits. It is something like Trimsamsa The number 
of degrees allotted do not follow any pattern. The table 
below shows how to work out this chart. 


90 Varshaphala 


Had da Table 
Signs 


1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 

OG* | 0-8° | 0-6 | 0-7° | 0-46* | 0-7° | 0-G* | 0-7° |0-12° | 0-7° | 0-7° 
Jup | Ven | Mer | Mar | Jup | Mer | Sat | Mar|Jup | Mer | Ven 
8-14 ]6-12 | 7-13 | 6-11 | 7-17 | 6-14 | 7-11 [12-17] 7-14 | 7-13 
Mer | Ven{ Ven} Ven | Ven | Mer} Ven | Ven |] Jup} Mer 
14-22 [12-17 | 13-19 }.11-18 [17-21 |14-21] 11-19 | 17-21 | 14-22 J13-20 
Jup | Jup] Merf{ Sat | Jup | Jup} Mer | Mer] Ven | Jup 
BOD | 22-27 | 17-24 | 19-26 | 18-24 | 21-28 |21-28) 19-24 | 21-26 | 22-5 [2 
Mar | Sat | Mar | Jup | Mer | Mar | Ven = Mar | Sat | Mar 
ZS | 27-3O }24-30 | 25-30 | 24-30 | 28-30 

Sat | Mar | Sat | Sat [ Mar | Sat ae py ee te 
How to Calculate Hadda Bala 
Calculate hadda bala as follows 


1. Planet in Own Hadda 15.00 Units 
2. Ina friend's Hadda 11.15 , 
3. In a neutral Hadda 07.30 , 
4. In enemy's Hadda 03.45 , 


Hadda Bala of Planets in the Example Chart 

Sun is in Scorpio at 0.16'. Therefore as per hadda 
chart it is in the hadda of Mars. Mars is enemy of Sun 
in this horoscope as both planets are conjunct. 

Therefore Sun gets 03.45 Units 

Moon with 05°51' degrees in Leo is in Hadda of 
Jupiter, which is friend of Moon being placed at 3/11 
axis. 

Moon therefore gets 11.15 Units 

Similarly Mars is at 13°49" in Scorpio. In this sign first 7 
degrees go to Mars, next 4 degrees from 7° to 11° go to 
Venus, 11° to 19° go to Mercury. Therefore, Mars is in 
Hadda of Mercury who is enemy of Mars 

Therefore Mars gets 03.45 Units 

Mercury is at 12°04’ degrees in Scorpio, again in 
the hadda of Mercury or its own. 

Therefore Mercury gets 15.00 Units 


Balas or Planetary Strength 91 


Jupiter with 18° 03' in Libra is in Hadda of its own. 
Therefore Jupiter gets 15.00 Units 

Venus is in Hadda of Mars , its enemy here, 
Therefore, Venus gets. 03.45 Units. 


Saturn is in Hadda of Mercury its friend. It gets 
11.15 Units, Cancer with 16° 12'. 


DREKKAN BALA 


The sign of 30° is divided into three parts of 10° 
each. The Drekkan chart is different from that used 
by Prashara. Here lord of first Drekkan in Aries is 
Mars. The lords of first drekkan in successive rasis 
are the planets that fall in regular order from Mars 
onwards (i.e. Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn, 
Sun, Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus and 
Saturn). The second drekkan starts from Sun, Moon, 
Mars, Mercury and so on. The third drekkan of Aries 
starts from Venus until third lord of Pisces whose 
lord becomes Mars. This method of determining 
Drekkan lord is applicable to Pancha Vargiya Bala 
only. See the chart below. 


Drekkan Table 
Rasis 


Drek 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 «11 = «#12 
kan 


0 to Mar Mer Jup Ven Sat Sun Mc Mar Mer Jup Ven Sat 
10* on 


10" Sun Mo Mar Mer Jup Ven Sat Sun Mo Mar Mer Jup 


-20° on on 


20° Ven Sat Sun Mo Mar Mer Jup Ven Sat Sun Mo Mar 
-30* on on 


Planets in own Drekkan get 10.00 units, 
in the friend's drekkan get 7.30 Units, 
in the drekkan of neutral planet 5.00 units 


in enemy’ drekkan 2.30 units 


92 Varshaphala 


Calculation of Drekkanbala in the example Horoscope 


Planet Longitude Drekkan Relation Units 
Ruler 
Sun Scorpio 0° 16° Mars Enemy 2.30 
Moon Leo 5°15' Sat Neutral- 5:00 
Mars Scorpio 13°49 Sun Enemy 2:30 
Mercury Scorpio 12°04 Sun Enemy 2:30 
Jupiter Libra 18°03 Saturn Enemy 2:30 
Venus Scorpio 2°36 Mars Enemy 2:30 
Saturn Cancer 15°44 Mer Friend _7:30 


NAVAMSA BALA 


This concept of navamsa is the same as used in 
the Prashari system and has already been described. 


i) In movable rasis, (1, 4, 7 and 10; Aries, Cancer, 
Libra and Capricorn) the counting starts from 
rasi itself i.e. where the planet is located. 


ii) In Fixed rasis (2, 5, 8 and 11) the counting starts 
from 9th place from its location. 


iii) In dual signs (3, 6, 9 12) the counting starts 
from the 5th position. 


The table for calculation of Navamsa is given 
below: 


The Navamsa chartb 


Signs > 12 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 

Degrees 4 
1 0 to 3° 20" 110 7 4 «110 7 4 «110 +7 4 
2. 3° 20-6°40' 2 11 8 5 21 8 5 211 8 5 
3. 6° 40'- 10° 31229 63122 9 6 31 «9 6 
4. 10° -13° 20 4 110 7 4 110 7 4 «110 #7 
5. 13°20-16°40' 5 2 11 8 5 211 8 5 211 8 
2, 16°40%020° 6 3 12 '9 6 3 12 9 6 3 12 9 


Balas or Planetary Strength 


Signs > lio ‘VW 12 
peers + 


[ar o2m20 | 7] a{ifio] 7141 af] 7] a] apo | 
ESSE CN ES Ha TS TET 
[aes | ofsfs{n}ofeiaialst 4] 3} | 


Navamsa bala is calculated as follows: 


State of Planet ~ Units alloted 
1. Planet in exaltation or own house . 5.00 
2. Planets‘in friendly sign 3.45 
3. Planets in neutural sign 2.30 


4. Planet in enemy sign 1.15 
Navamsa _ Bala of Planets in Present Horoscope 


Planet Navamsa lord Relation 

Sun : 
Moon 5:00 
Mars 5:00 
Mercury 1:15 
Jupiter 5:00 
Venus 1:15 
Saturn : 


Measurement of PanchVargiya Bala 


Add the total strength of five different types of balas 
and divide by four and we get a unit which is known as 
Vishwabala. The maximum units allotted to different types 
of balas are as follows: 


Type of Strength hist a Units allocated 
1. First strength-Own Sign (Kshetra bala) 30 
2. Second strength-Sign of Exaltation (Oocha bala) 20 
3. Third Strength - Hudda Bala 15 
4. Fourth Strength - Drekkan Bala 10 
5. Fifth Strength- Navamsa bala ; ; 5 
Maximum Units allotted 80 


VISHWA BALA 

If we divide these by 4, we get the unit which is known 
as Vishwabala which in this case would be 80 divided by 
4= 20 


94 Varshaphala 


Tabulating the Panch Vargiyabala 


Bal Sun Moon Mars Mercury Jupiter Venus Saturn 


1 Kshetra 7.50 7.50 30.00 7.50 15.00 7.50 15.00 
2 Oocha 2.15 9.41 11.45 13.39 8.33 3.57 9.34 
3 Hudda 3.45 11.15 3.45 15.00 15.00 3.45 11.15 
4 Drekkan 2.30 5.00 2.30 2.30 2.30 2.30 7.30 
5 Navamsa 1.15 5.00 5.0 1.15 5.00 1.15 3.45 

Total 17.35 37.46 53.00 40.14 46.03 19.17 47.04 

dividing 

by 4 

Vishwa 

bala 4.23 9.26 13.30 =10.03 11.30 4.49 11.46 


Decimal fraction may be used instead of 
equating subunits with 60 sub sub units. 


Estimate of Strength 
1. Extraordinary Strong ‘Prakarmi’ more than 15 units 
2. Full strength ‘Poorna Bali’ - 10 to 15 units a 


planet . 
3. Medium Strength ' Madhya Ball' - 5 to 10 units 
4. Weak -'Alapbali' - less than 5 units 


In the above horoscope Mars is very strong and 
next are Saturn and Jupiter. 


Other Bala' that is used in Varshaphala is 
HARSHA BALA (Laterally means happiness) 


This bala use is a simple method of judging 
strength of planets. According to this system a planet 
gets strength because of placement in 


1. Position of a planet in specific house (Sthan Bala). 


2. Location in its own sign qr sign of exaltation 
(Swakshetra Bala) 


3. In house of its own sex (Stri-Purush Bala) 


Strength due to day or night chart (Din-Ratri). 


Balas or Planetary Strength 95 


1. Sthan Bala (strength due to placement) 


The strength accquired by planets in various houses 
is as follows. 


Planet Houses in which gets strength 
Sun 9th House 

Moon 3rd House 

Mars 6th House 

Saturn 12th House 

Mercury lst House 

Jupiter 11th House 

Venus 5th House 


If a particular planet is placed in its house of 
strength allot 5 marks, otherwise give it O mark. 

In the present horoscope none of the planets are 
in the proper house of strength, therefore each one of 
them gets 0 mark. 

2. The Second Strength is Exaltation/Own Sign 


If a planet is exalted or is in its own sign allot it 

5 marks, otherwise give it 0 mark. 

In the present horoscope only Mars is in its own 
house, therefore, it gets 5 marks. ; 

3. Third Strength (In its own sex Male/Female) 
Male planets are : Sun, Mars and Jupiter. 
Female planets are : Moon, Mercury, Venus, and 

Saturn. 

Female Houses are 1, 2, 3 and their opposites 7, 8, 

and 9. 


Male Houses are 4,5, 6 and their opposites 10, 11, 
and 12. 


To be strong male planet should be in male house 
and female planet should be in female house. If they 
are in their houses of own sex allot them 5 marks/ 
points or units, otherwise they get O mark. 


96 Varshaphala 


In the present horoscope Sun and Mars, two male 
planets are located in male house (10 house) and 
as such they get 5 marks each. Out of female planets 
only Moon a female planet occupies female house, 
the 7 house getting again 5 marks. 
4th Bala ( Strength from day and night) 

Ifthe time of Varshparvesh is day, the male planets 
gets strenth.Varshaparvesh during night gives strength to 
female planets. 


In the present horoscope the birth is day, therefore 
only male planets get 5 mark each. 


After having allotted marges it is easy for us to 
tabulate the results. 


These could be done in tabulated form. 


Harsha Bala 
Sun Moon Mars Mercury Jupiter Venus Saturn 


1. First 

Bala (8) 0) @) 0 oO ) 0 
Sthan Bala 
2. Second. 

Bala (0) Oo 5 (6) 0 (0) (0) 
Swakshetra 
3. Third : 

Bala 5 5 5 0 Oo 0 0 
Stri-Purush 
4. Fourth 

Bala 5 (0) 5 0 5 (0) (0) 
Din Ratri ; 
Total 10 5 15 0 5 0 0 


Interpreting the Harsha Bala 
A planet having, 
0 ,marks has no strength and is called ‘Nirbal’. 
5 marks itis weak - “Alapbali” 
10 marks is of medium strength - “Madhyabali” 
15 marks is very strong - “Poornabali” 
20 marks extraordinary strong. 


Balas or Planetary Strength 97 


Exercises 
Q. No.l Indira Gandhi became Prime Minister of India 
on January 19, 1966 after the death of Lal 
Bahadur Shastri on 11 January 1966. Date 
of birth 19.11.1917 
The Chart of annual horoscope for this year is 
as follows. Work out Dwadasavargiya and Panch 
Vargiyabala of the planets. 
20.11.1965, 6:34: AM 


Lagna 5°35', Sun 4° 08' , Moon 25° 33', Mars 10° 
58', Mercury 25° O1', Venus 21° 12', Jupiter 6° 21’ 
Saturn 17° 07' /Rahu 11°18’. 

Answers to the Exercise 
1. Dwadasvargiya Bal in Annual Horoscope of Indira 
Gandhi (20.11.1965-67) 


D-2 Chart 
Sun Hora Moon Hora 
Jupiter Saturn 
Mars Venus 
Moon Lagna 


Mer Sun 


Balas or Planetary Strength 99 


D-9 Chart 


alee 


KS S/ 


D-10 Chart 


VN 


D-12 Chart 


VARGIYABALA 


Bal 
1 Kshetra 
Ooch 
Hudda 
Drekkan 
Navamsha 


Total 
dividing 
by 4 
Vishwa 
bala 


wm & WN 


PANCH 
Sun Moon 
15.00 22.30 
2.40 9.10 
7.30 3.45 
5.00 7.30 
5.00 3.45 
35.10 46.30 
8.52 11.37 


Mars Mercury Jupiter Venus Saturn 
7.30 15.00 15.00 7.30 30.00 
13.39 12.13 13.40 6.1 8.50 
3.45 3.45 3.45 3.45 11.15 
2.30 5.00 10.00 7.30 7.30 
3.45 2.30 5.00 1.15 1.15 
31.29 38.28 48.25 31.10 58.45 


7.52. 9.37 12.06 7.47 14.41 


100 


Varshaphala 


DWDASVARGIYA 


BALA 


Vargas Sun 

D-I NUETRAL 
D-2 BENIFIC 
NUETRAL 
NUETRAL 
NUETRAL 
MALAFIC 
BENIFIC 
MALAFIC 
BENIFIC 
BENIFIC 


an 


D-3 


SS 
0 
wn 


Moon 
BENIFIC 
BENIFIC 
BENIFIC 
BENIFIC 
BENIFIC 
MALAFIC 
BENIFIC 
NUETRAL 
BENIFIC 
NUETRAL 
BENIFIC 
BENIFIC 


Mare 
MALAFIC 


NUETRAL 
BENIFIC 

MALAFIC 
MALAFIC 
MALAFIC 
NUETRAL 
BENIFIC 


Mercury 
NEUTRAL 
MALAFIC 
BENIFIC 
MALAFIC 
BENIFIC 
MALAFIC 
NUETRAL 
BENIFIC 
MALAFIC 
NUETRAL 
BENIFIC 
BENIFIC 


Jupiter 
NEUTRAL 
NEUTRAL 
NEUTRAL 
NEUTRAL 
BENIFIC 
MALAFIC 
BENIFIC 
NUETRAL 
NUETRAL 
NUETRAL 
MALAFIC 
NUETRAL 


Venus Saturn 
MALAFIC BENIFIC 
MALAFIC NEUTRAL 
NEUTRAL NEUTRAL 
NEUTRAL MALAFIC 
MALAFIC MALAFIC 
NUETRAL NUETRAL 
MALAFIC BENIFIC 
BENIFIC BENIFIC 
BENIFIC BENIFIC 
MALAFIC MALAFIC 
BENIFIC BENIFIC 
NUETRAL MALAFIC 

4 4 

3 5 

5 3 


FRIENDS ENEMY 

:-1 Sun Moon Mer., Sat. 

2 Moon Sun, Mer. Jup., Venus, 
mars 

3 Mars Sat. Jup., Venus, 
moon 

4 Mercury Moon Sun, Sat, 

5 Jupiter Sat. Moon, Venus, 
Mars 

6 Venus Sat. Jup., mars, 
Moon 

7 Saturn Jup., Venus Sun, Mer. 


Mars 


NEUTRAL 


Jup., Venus, 
mars 

Sat. 

Sun, mer 
Jup., Venus, 
Mars 

Sun, Mer. 
Sun, Mer. 


moon 


Chapter-V1 
Dasha 


For timing of events the Dashas used in the 
Annual horoscope are as follows: 

‘1. Vimshottari Mudda Dasha 

2.  Yogini Dasha 

3. Patyayini Dasha 
1. VIMSHOTTARI MUDDA DASHA 

This is nakshatra-based dasha and for this the 
knowledge about the number of nakshatras in zodiac 
and their lordship is necessary. 
Nakshatras 
Division of Zodiac into 27 Nakshatras 

There are 12 signs or rasis in the Zodiac. Each 
sign of 30° has 21/4 nakshatras. Since a nakshatra 
has four padas 03° 20' each, making a total of 13 ° 20'. 
There are 9 padas in each rasi. A table of nakshatras 
in each rasi’ is given below. 


Rasis or 

Signs Nakshatras Span (longitude) Lord 

Aries 1. Ashvini 0° to 13°20' Ketu 
(four padas: 1, 2, 3, and 4) 
2. Bharani 13°20' to 26°40' Venus 
(four padas: 1, 2, 3, and 4) 
3. Kritika 26°40' to 30° Sun 
(1st pada) 

Taurus 3. Kritika O° to- 10? Sun 
(three padas: 2, 3, and 4) 
4. Rohini 10° to 23°20' Moon 
(four padas) 
5. Mrigsira 23°20' to 30° Mars 


(two padas: 1, 2) 


102 Varshaphala 

Rasis or 

Signs Nakshatras Span (longitude) Lord 

Gemini 5. Mrigsira 0° to 6°40" Mars 
(two padas: 3,4) 
6. Ardra 6°40' to 20° Rahu 
(four padas: 1, 2, 3, and 4) 
7. Punarvasu 20° to 30° Jupiter 
(three padas: 1, 2, and 3) 

Cancer 7. Punarvasu 0° to 3°20 Jupiter 
(4th pada) 
8. Pushyami 3°20'to 16°40' Saturn 
(four padas: 1, 2, 3, and 4) 
9. Ashlesha 16°40' to 3 Mercury 
(four padas: 1, 2, 3, and 4) 

Leo 10. Magha 0° to 13°20 Ketu 
(four padas: 1, 2,3, and 4) 
11. Poorva 
phalguni 13°20' to 26°40’ Venus 
(four padas: 1, 2, 3, and 4) 
12. Uttara 
phalguni 26°40' to 30° Sun 
(1st pada) 

Virgo 12. Uttara 0° to 10° Sun 
phalguni 
(three padas: 2, 3, 4) 
13. Hasta 10° to 23°20' Moon 
(four padas: 1, 2, 3, 4) 
14. Chitra 23°20' to 30° Mars 
(two padas 1, 2) 

Libra 14. Chitra 0° to 6°40' Mars 
(two pada: 3, 4) 
15. Swati 6°40' to 20° Rahu 
(four padas : 1,2,3,4) 
16. Vishakha = 20° to 30° Jupiter 


(three padas : 1,2,3) 


Rasis or 
Signs 


Scorpio 


Sagittarius 


Capricorm 


Aquarius 


Pisces 


Dasha 


Nakshatras Span (longitude) 


16. Vishakha 0° to 3°20' 
(4th pada) 

17. Anuradha 3°20' to 16°40' 
(four padas: 1, 2, 3, 4) 

18. Jyeshta 16°40'to 30° 
(four padas: 1, 2, 3, 4) 


19. Moola 0° to 13°20' 
(four padas: 1, 2, 3, 4) 

20. Poorva 

Ashada 13°20'to 26°40' 
(four padas: 1, 2, 3, 4) 

21. Uttara 

Ashada 26°40' to 30° 
(1st pada) 

21. Uttara 

Ashada. 0° to 10° 


(three padas : 2, 3, 4) 

22. Shravana 10° to 23°20' 
(four padas: 1, 2, 3, 4) 

23. Dhanishta 23°20' to 30° 
(two padas: 1, 2) 

23. Dhanishta O° to 6°40' 
(two padas : 3, 4) 

24. Satabhisha 6°40' to 20° 
(four padas: 1, 2, 3, 4) 


25. Poorva 

Bhadra 20° to 30° 
(three padas : 1, 2, 3) 

25. Poorva 

Bhadra 0° to 3°20' 
(4th pada) 

26. Uttara 

Bhadra 3°20'to 16°40' 


(four padas:: 1, 2, 3, 4) 
27. Revati 16°40' to 30° 
(four padas: 1, 2, 3, 4) 


103 


Lord 


Jupiter 
Saturn 
Mercury 


Ketu 


Venus 


Sun 


Sun 

Moon 
Mars 
Mars 


Rahu 


Jupiter 


Jupiter 


Saturn 


Mercury 


104 Varshaphala 


According to some pundits there are 28 nakshatras. 
This additional nakshatra has been allotted number 
22, thus shifting number of the rest of nakshatras. 
Revati will thus get a number 28. 


Aid to Memory 


Remember nakshatras repeat after 9th.For 
example nakshatras 1, 10 and 19 belong to Ketu. 
Nakshatras 2, 11 and 20 belong to Venus 3, 12 & 21 
belong to Sun 4, 13 & 22 are of Moon 5, 14 & 23 belong 
to Mars 6, 15 & 24 are of Rahu 7, 16 and 25 belong to 
Jupiter 8, 17 & 26 belong to Saturn and 9, 18 and 
27 belong to Mercury. Again 
1. Fiery signs 1, 5 and 9 (Aries, Leo and Sagittarius) 

have same set of nakshatras i.e.Ketu (4 charan), 

Venus (4 charan) and of Sun (1 charan). (Charan 

means pada) 

2. Earthy signs 2, 6 and 10 (Taurus, Virgo, Capricorn) 
have nakshatras of Sun (3 charan), Moon (4 charan), 
Mars (2 charan). 

3. Airy signs 3, 7 & 11 (Gemini, Libra, and Aquarius) 
have nakshatras of Mars (2), Rahu (4), and Jupiter 
(3). 

4. Watery signs 4, 8 and 12 (Cancer, Scorpio and 
Pisces) have nakshatras of Jupiter (1), Saturn 
(4) and Mercury (4). 

How to Calculate Mudda dasha 

1. Note the number of Nakshatra in which Moon is 
located in Birth chart and subtract two. Position of 
Moon should be taken from Birth Horoscope and 
not from Annual Horoscope. 

2. Add number of completed years and 

Divide the resultant figure by 9. 

4. The remainder gives number of Mudda Dasha 
operating at beginning of the annual year. These 
Mudda dashas are in the following order. 


1. Sun 


o 


Dosha 105 


Mocn 

Mars 

Rahu 
Jupiter 
Saturn 
Mercury 
Ketu 

or O Venus 


CON AH RYN 


Example 
Horoscope of Pt. J. L. Nehru. We have to work 
out Mudda dasha for the year 1947. 


Annual 
Horoscope 


1. Ascendant 23°57'. Sun 0°16', Moon 05°51': Mars 
13°49' Mercuryl2°04' : Jupiterl8°03' Venus 15°44’ 
Rahu 19°27' Saturn: 15° 44 
Number of Nakshatra Moon is in Birth Chart — 9 

(Ashlesha) as degree of Moon is 17°52' (not in the 

annual chart.) 

Completed years on 14.11.1946 - 57. 

Applying the formula above 9-2 + 57 = 64 

By dividing 64 by 9 we get remainder = 1 

Number 1 in the table above is Sun, so dasha in 
Annual chart will be Sun followed by Moon, Mars, Rahu, 
Jupiter, Saturn, Mercury, Ketu and Venus. 


106 Varshaphala 


Duration in Mudda Dasha 

In Vimshottari Dasha years have been allotted to 
the above planets. If we multiply these figures by 3 
we get duration of each planet in number of days, 
which is Mudda dasha allotted to each planet. These 
are worked out as follows. 


Dasha Years in Multiply Duration (indays) 
Vimshottari Dash by3 Mudda Dasha 
1. Sun 6 6x3 =18 
2. Moon 10 10x3 = 30 
3. Mars 7 7x3 =21 
4. Rahu 18 18x3 =54 
5. Jupiter 16 16x3 = 48 
6. Saturn 19 19x3 = 57 
7. Mercury 17 17x3 ~=51 
8. Ketu 7 7x3 =21 
9. Venus 20 20x3 = 60 
Total 120 120x3 = 360 


Balance of Mudda Dasha 

This can be worked out in a way similar to that 
of Vimshottari Dasha. Note down the longitude of the 
Moon in the birth chart, and in which nakshatra it 
is located. Each nakshatra is ofa span of 13° 20’. 13 ° 
20' is equal to number of years and( number of days 
in Mudda Dasha) as allotted above. Note down the 
balance of degrees Moon has still to traverse in the 
nakshatra at time of birth and work out the balance. 
This is shown in the example below: 


Example 
Work out Vimshottari Mudda Dasha in the Annual 
Horoscope of Pt. JL Nehru for the year!947. 


Pt. Nehru'’s Moon in the Birth horoscope is in 
Cancer at 17°52’. In Cancer rasi the nakshatras are 
distributed as follows: 


Dasha 107 


Nakshatra number 7 Punarvasu 

(4), lord Jupiter : 3 ° 20' 

Nakshatra number 8, Pushyamitra 13° 20' 

(1,2,3,4), lord Saturn: 

Nakshatra number 9, 

Ashlesha (1), lord Mercury: 3°20' 

The Moon here has crossed 3°20' degrees of 
Punarvasu and 13°20' of Pushya i.e. 16° 40' and has 
entered Ashlesha nakshatra. Since its longitude is 17°52’, 
it means it is in Aslesha nakshatra with (17°52'-16° 40) 
or 1°12', The balance to be traversed is (13°20'-1°12') 
or 12°08'. Dasha operating at the commencement 
of annual year was of Sun which has a total duration of 18 
days. Now we have to work out the balance of Sun. 

If Moon has to travel 13° 20' the balance would be 
18 days. Since it has to traverse only 12°08' 


18 days x_12° 08' 2 18. x 728', 
13° 20! 800 


or 16 days , (16.36) 
Now work out rest of Dashas 


Sun 16 days 
Moon 30 days 
Mars 21 days 
Rahu 54 days 
Jupiter 48 days 
Saturn 57 days 
Mercury 51 days 
Ketu_ , 21 days 
Venus 60 days 
Sun | 2 days balance left as 16 days 


availed in the beginning(18-16) Note :- Sun has total 
of 18 days. 


108 Varshaphala 


Mudda Dasha in the annual horoscope of JL Nehru 
for the 58'" year from 14.11.1946 to 14 11. 1947 can be 
tabulated as follows: 


Days Month Year 
Beginning 
of the year 14 ‘ie 1946 
Sun . 16 - 

30 11 1946 
Moon 30 = 

60 11 1946 

Or -0 01 1947 

Mars px) - 

21 01 1947 
Rahu 24 01 

15 03 1947 
Jupiter 18 01 

03 05 1947 
Saturn 27 01 

00 07 1947 
Mercury 21 01 

21 08 1947 
Ketu 21s, 00 

12 09 1947 


Venus 0 02 


12 11 1947 
Balance of Sun 
As Sun has total 
18 days 02 


14 11 1947 


Dasha 109 


Extraordinary Strong Annual Horoscope 


This is the year when Mr. Nehru became the first 
Prime Minister of Independent India with immense 
popularity. It happened in the Mudda dasha of Mercury. 
Mercury is the 5m and 8m lord in the 10m house with 
digbali 10m lord Mars. 5th is the house of Ministership 
and 8m is opposition from the British rulers. Sun is 7th 
lord (10m from 10m) in the 10m with directional strength. 
Venus is 9m lord in 10 making powerful Dharam Karam 
adhipati yoga. As a matter of fact all the planets 
have connection with the 10m house. Venus, Sun, 
Mercury and Mars are in the 10m with exalted Rahu/ 
Ketu axis. Jupiter is in the rasi of Venus who is in the 
10m. Saturn is also in the rasi of Moon and Moon is in 
the rasi of Sun who again is in the 10m. 


This annual horoscope has other yogas used in 
Varshaphala; for example there is Pooran Ithasala of 
dasha lord Mercury who is also 5th lord with lord of 
ten Mars. There is also ithasala of lagna lord Saturn 
with 10m lord Mars. Jupiter lord of 11 has ithasala 
with Moon as also there is ithasala between 10th 
lord Mars and 11th lord Jupiter making Nakata Yoga. 
Different View on calculating Mudda dasha 


Uttra Kalamitra, an old classic on astrology written 
by Kalidas has prescribed a different view of calculation 
of Mudda Dasha. 

According to him the calculation of mudda dasha 
should be done from the nakshatra of Moon in the 
Annual Chart and not the birth chart. The first dasha 
during the year will be that of lord of nakshatra in 
which Moon is located in the annual chart just as 
calculation of Vimshottari Dasa. 

The order of dasha lords would be as follows 


Sun 110 days 
Moon 60 days 
Mars 32 days 


Mercury 40 days 


missing? 


112 Varshaphala 


4. Bharamri Mars AO 
S. Bhadrika Mercury 50 
6. Ulka Saturn 60 
eis Siddha Venus 70 
8. Sankata Rahu/Ketu 80 

Total 360 


Balance of Yogini Dasha 

Once we know the starting dasha it is easy to 
calculate balance of dasha by using following formula: 

Duration of Dasha untraversed part of Moon in 
its. 

Birth Nakshatra x_ Period of the planet 

13°20' 
Sub Periods 
These are worked out proportionately. 
Example Chart 

Pt. JL Nehru's Horoscope and Annual Chart for 
57th birthday 

Number of Completed years 57 

Add number of birth Nakshatra 

(Nakshatra number in which 


Moon is located at birth) 9 
Add 3 
Total 69 


Divide by 8 and get remainder which is 5 which 
is Bhadrika ruled by Mercury. 


This will follow the order given in the tabulated 
form below. The fifth Yogini dasha is of Bhadrika 
ruled by Mercury with total dasa of 50 days. The 
balance of dasha is to be worked out as shown below. 


Eight Yogini dashas are ruled by their lord given 
in table below. 


Yogini Dasha 
1.Mangala 
2.Pingala 
3.Dhanya 

4. Bharamari 
5. Bhadrika 
6.Ulka 

7. Siddha 
8.Sankata 


Dasha 


¢ Lord 

. Moon 
Sun 
Jupiter 
Mars 
Mercury 
Saturn 
Venus 
Rahu/ Ketu’ 


Total 


113 


Duration 
10 days 
20 days 
30 days 
AO days 
50 days 
60 days 
70 days 
80 days 


360 days 


Balance of Yogini Dasha in the above horoscope 
This is worked out in a similar manner as Mudda 


dasha is done. 


Dasha at time of birth Bhadrika 
Total duration of Bhadrika 50 days 
Moon in Nakshatra at birth Ashlesha 


Balance to be traversed 


Balance of Dasha 
50_ days x_12°8' (Untrversed part) 


12° 08' 


13° 20' 
= 45 days 
Calculation of Yogini Dasha in the Annual chart 
Days 
Beginning of Dasha 14 
Balance of Bhadrika (45days) 15 
29 
Ulka 
29 
Siddha 10°. 


09 


Month Year 
11 1946 
01 : 

12 1946. 
02 

02 1947 
02 


OS 


114 Varshaphala 


Sankata 720) 02) 

29 07 1947 
Mangala 10 

09 08 1947 
Pingala gen 

29 08 1947 
Dhanya 00 01 

29 09 1947 
Bharamari 10 01 

09 11 


Bhadrika (balance left 50-44) 05_ 
14 11 1947 
Dasha operating on 15 th August 1947 that of 
Pingala (Sun), a political planet with directional 
strength in tenth as lord of 7 with lord of ten. 


PATYAYINI DASHA 


While Mudda and Yoginin dashas are nakshatra 
based, this dasha is based on the longitudes of the 
planets minus rasis. Seven planets from Sun to 
Saturn and lagna participate in the system. 


KRISHAMSHAS : 


Take the longitude of the planets and lagna and 
discard the signs. The portion left is called 
Krishamshas.Arrange these krishamshas in the 
ascendind order, lowest first, the highest last. This 
will also be the order of the dashas. 

_ Example 

Pt. Nehru’ Annual chart for 1947 

Longitude of the planets after discarding the signs. 

Ascendant 23° OT 


Sun 0° 16' 


Dasha 115 


Moon 3° 51' 
Mars 13° 49' 
Mercury 12 ° 04' 
Jupiter 18° 03' 
Venus 02 ° 36' 
Saturn. * 15° 44' 


Arrange these in ascending order. This will be 
as follows - ' 
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 
Sun Venus Moon Mercury Mars Saturn Jupiter Ascendant 
0°16' 02°36’ 5°51" 12°04' 13° 49" 15° 44 18°03" 23"57' 

Krishamshas: The longitude of the planet minus 
rasis or signs in degrees, minutes and seconds is 
known Krishamshas. 

The order of dashas in this example horoscope 
would be same as above. First Sun then Venus, Moon 
Mercury and so onin the same order as arranged above. 


PATYAMSAS: 

Patyamsa value of the first planet above 

Sun would remain same i.e. = 0° 16'. 

To find out patyamsa of next planet Venus in this 
case, subtract the krishmasa of previous planet, in this 
case Sun, from krishamsa of the planet concerned. 

For example 
Patyamsa of Venus = Krishamsa of Venus minus that 
of Sun (one planet before). 


Venus Patyamsa = 2° 36'-0° 16' = 2° 20' 
Moon's Patyamsa = 5§°51'-2°36' = 3° 15' 
Mercury's Patyamsa = 12°04'-5°51' =6* 13' 
Mar's Patyamsa = 13°49'-12°04'= I° 45° 
-Saturn's Patyamsa =15° 44'-13° 49'= 1° 55' 
Jupiter's Patyamsa =. 18° 03-15° 44' = 2° 19* 


Ascendant's Patyamsa = 23° 57-18°03' = 5° 54! 


116 Varshaphala 


When the Patyamsas of all the dasha lords are 
added they are equal to Krishamsas ofthe last dasha 
lord, in vthis case of Ascendant. 

If we add 0°16', 2°20’, 3°15’, 6°13', 1°45’, 1°55’, 
2°19', 5°54’ it comes to 23°57' the Patyamsa of 
Ascendant. 

Calculating Period of Dashas : 

The highest value of Krishamshas in this particular 
case 23°57' = 365 days or for sake of convenience = 
360 days 

Or 23°57' = 360 days. Now work out on this basis 
with the help of patyamsa of each planet duration 
of dasha. 

Dasha of Sun = 0°16' * 360 days divided by? 23° 


57' = 16 *360 
= 4 days 
1437 (23°57'= 1437') 
Dasha of Venus = 2° 36'x360 days 
—_______——= 39 days 
. 1437 
Dasha of Moon = 3° 15x360 days 
= 48 days 
1437 
Dasha of Mercury = 6°13'x360 days 
—_____————= 93 days 
1437 
Dasha of Mars = 1°45'x360 days 
—_____—_——= 26 days 
1437 
Dasha of Saturn = 1°55'x360 days 
——____——= 28 days 
1437 
Dasha ofJupiter =2° 19'x360 days 
—_______= 34 days 
1437 
Dasha of Ascendant = 5°54'x360 days 
—_—————_—- = 88days 


1437 


Dosha 117 


Patyani Dasha in case of Nehru would be 
Months Days _ Period 


Sun 0 4 14.11.1946to 18.11.1946 
Venus 1 9 18.11.1946 to 27. 12.1946 
Moon 1 18 27.12.1946to 15.02.1947 
Mercury 3 03 15.02.1947to 18.05.1947 
Mars 26 00 18.05.1947to 14.06.1947 
Saturn 28 00 14.06.1947 to 12.07.1947 
Jupiter 01 04 12.07.1947to 16.08.1947 
Asd. 02 28 16.08.1947to 14.11.1947 


Sub - periods or Antardashas : 

Period of antardasha can be found out by 
multiplying dasha period of Mahadasha Nath lord 
dasha with duration of antardasha lord and dividing 
it by 365.The result would be Antra dasha in days. 
The first antardasha in Mahadasha of any planet 
will be of Mahadasha lord; the other antardashas will 
follow the set pattern as described above. 

Patyani Antardasha Calculation 

Total dasha period of Mahadasha lord x Total 

dasha period Of AD lord __ 
365 

Whatever remainder we get after the calculation 
it indicates total time span of antardasha of planet in 
days. For example if we want to calculate Sun's 
antardasha in Mercury's Mahadasha in the above 
example horoscope. By applying the above formula 

93 days (period of Mahadasha lord Mercury) x 4 
days (Period of antardasha lord Sun) 

365 
= 1.01 days 


Hence, the total time span of antardasha of Sun 
in Mercury Mahadasha will be of 1.01 days 


Chapter-VII 
Lord of the Year- Varshesha 


In the annual chart lord of the year is an important 
concept and is called Varshesha or Varsheshwara. The 
planet selected as lord of the year holds key to unfold the 
events of the particular year. This is like engine of the 
train of events for the particular year. The stronger the 
engine the smoother the journey to destiny would be. 
FIVE OFFICE BEARERS - {Panch Adhikarisfor Lord 
of the year. 


Selection of the lord of the year is to be made out 
of the following five office bearers (Panch Adhikaris). 
These are easy to remember. Since Lagna lord is 
the most important concept in Astrology, the five 
candidates are the five lagna lords as follows: 

1. Lord of Ascendant in the birth’ chart. It is also called 

Janam Lagna Adhipati. 

2. Muntha Pati: Lord of the sign in which Muntha 
is located. (Muntha is also lagna in progression) 

3. Lord of the Ascendant in Annual horoscope. 

4. Lord of the Sun/Moon sign (Dina - Ratri Pati - lord 
of day or night respectively) 

The signs in which Sun and Moon are located 
are also lagnas. 

In the annual chart if the birth is in daytime the lord of 
the sign in which Sun is located becomes the candidate. 
However, if the birth is at night, the lord of sign in which 
Moon is located becomes the candidate. Day is from 
sunrise to sunset and night is sunset to next sunrise.) 
5. Tri - Rashi Pati 


This is a novel concept, and varies from sign to sign. 
This is given in the form of table below. Depending upon 


Lord of the Year- Varshesha 119 


the birth whether it is day or night time certain planets 
have been declared as lord of Tri Rashis( or natural lords 
of different ascendants) as per table below: 


Tri Rashi Pati for 
Varsha lagna 


— Birth Night Birth 
Aries 


Jupiter 


Taurus Venus Moon 


Mercury 
Mars 
Sun 


Gemini Saturn 


Cancer Venus 
Leo Jupiter 
| Virgo Moon 


Venus 


Saturn 
Venus 


Libra Mercury 


Scorpio Mars 


PerINanee py 


Saturn _ 
Mars 
Jupiter 


Sagittarius Saturn 


— 
> 


Capricorn Mars 
Aquarius Jupiter 


_— 


Pisces Moon Moon 


SELECTION OF THE LORD OF THE YEAR. 


There are five candidates or Panch Adhikaris for 


the post of Lord of the Year. Planet has to fulfil 
certain conditions like it has to be strongest out of 
the five and should aspect lagna etc. To be termed 
as Varshesha the conditions are as follows : 

1. It should be strongest of the five. This should be 
ascertained from PanchVargiya Bala. 

It should also aspect lagna. The aspects are 
normally Tajak aspects. It is immaterial whether 
aspects are friendly or not. In a nutshell Lord of the 
year should not bein2/12 or 6/8 position with lagna 
because in this position it does not aspect lagna. 

2. If the strongest planet does not aspect lagna choose 
the next strongest from the above candidates. 

3. When the office bearers have equal strength and 
all of them aspect lagna, one holding the greater 


120 Varshaphala 


number of portfolios qualifies to become the year 

lord. This contingency would rarely arise once we 

take decimal figures also into consideration. 

MUNTHA LORD AS THE YEAR LORD 

a) When no office bearer aspects the lagna, Muntha 
lord becomes lord of the year. 

b) Muntha lord also becomes lord of the year when 
strength of the office bearer is less than 5 units in 
PanchVargiya bala and no office bearer aspects the 
lagna. 

Some Other Considerations. 

Some of the Tajik writers are of the opinion that in 
the contingency of none of the candidates having enough 
strength and all being equal and not aspecting lagna 
the Tri-rashi Pati should be declared as Lord of the Year. 
MOON AS THE YEAR LORD 

Normally Moon is not selected as lord of the year 
as it is very soft and not fit to govern. In such cases 
even when Moon is strongest of the candidates and 
also aspects lagna its claim as lord of the year is 
ignored and next strongést planet aspecting lagna 
is chosen as year lord. 

If no other office bearer aspects lagna then in 
that case :- 

1. Planet establishing Ithasala Yoga with Moon is 
chosen as year lord. (Ithasala yoga has been 
described in detail under the heading Tajik Yogas). 

2. If Moon does not form ithasala yoga with any planet, 
choose lord of the Moon sign as year lord. 

Special Circumstances for Moon as the year lord. 
Moon can be selected as the year lord only in 

special circumstances if :- 

a) In the annual horoscope Cancer is rising in lagna 
with Moon in ascendant and strongest of the office 
bearers. 

b) Varshaparvesh occurs at night with Moon as Tri- 
rashi Pati is the strongest planet in the horoscope, 
as also aspects lagna. 


Lord of the Year-Varshesha 121 


Example Horoscope 
Pt. JL Nehru's Annual Horoscope 1947: 16. 11. 
1946; 13: 45: 19 hrs. 


Annual 
Horoscope 


Asd Sun Moon Mars Mercury Jupiter 
23°32" 0°16 =5°51' 13°49" 12°04' 18° 03' 
Venus Saturn Rahu 

2° 36' 15° 44" 19° 27' 

This is the annual horoscope for Pt. J. L. Nehru 
for the 58th year of his birth. We will work out lord 
of the year for this horoscope. 

CANDIDATES FOR LORD OF THE YEAR. 

Ascendant Lord in the Birth Horoscope: Moon. 
Muntha Pad: Mars. 

Ascendant Lord in Annual Horoscope: Saturn. 
Din Ratri Pati: Day Birth, Lord ofthe Sun sign Mars. 
Tri Rashi Pati: Varsha Lagna is Aquarius, birth 
is daytime, and Trirashi pari is Jupiter. 

In this horoscope Mars is the strongest planet 
with 13.52 Vishwabala and it is aspecting Lagna even 
though it is an inimical aspect. 

JUDGEMENT OF LORD OF THE YEAR 

Importance ofthe strength of the Year Lord 

As lord of the year is the most important planet 
controlling the events for the full year it should be 
strong and well placed. To be effective it should be :- 


122 Varshaphala 


i) Strong in panch Vargiya Bala :- Strength of the lord of 

the year is measured from Vishwabala as used in Panch 
' Vargeeya Balas, According to this a planet may be of 

Extra Ordinary Strength-Prakarmi - having 
Vishwabala of more than 15 units. 

'Pooran' strength with a Vishwabala of 10 to 15 
units. 

Madhyamstrength with Vishwabala of 10 units. 

Alpa low strength from 5 to 10. 

Nirbal or weak having strength upto 5 units only. 

The other factors that give strength to a planet 
are its placement: 
iit) In kendra or trikona 
iil) In a friend's rasi. 

iv) In Shubha kartari yoga or having ithasala with benefics. 

v) Aspected by benefics and yogakarka planets, 

vi) It should not be placed in 6, 8, or 12 houses, 

vil) It should not be combust or retrograde. 

vill) It should not be aspected by malefics or be in 
inimical sign. It should not be debilitated or weak 
otherwise. 

The strength of the year lord will portend the shape 
of events to come. Its involvement in various yogas 
should be carefully assessed. The signification or 
karkatwas should be taken into account while 
interpreting the horoscope. In.particular following 
things should be judged from. 

1. Sun: Position and status of father, condition of health, 

spiritual maturity, high ranks and influence in society. 

Strong Sun as the year Lord: gives high status, 
political power, wealth, health and vitality, family and 
happiness from children, name, honour and fame. The 
year proves to be most satisfying and full of happy events. 

In the annual Horoscope of Rajiv Gandhi for 1984, 
his lord of the year was Sun with directional strength in 


Lord of the Year-Varshesha 123 


the 10% house in his own royal sign Leo with two 
benefics Venus and Mercury. Sun had strength of 
14.23 units. From non- entity he rose to the position 
of Prime Minister of India at the death of her mother 
on 31st October 1984. 


Rajiv Gandhi: Annual Chart 20.8. 1984. 1: 12: 45 
PM: Prime Minister 31; 10:1984 


Annual 


Horoscope 


1984 


Ascendant 8° 23' :Sun3° 50': Moon 9° 34’: Mars 7° 
40': Mercury 18°21'(R) Jupiter 9°38' (R): Venus 21° 
45'(R) : Saturn 17°13': Rahu 8°35' 


Sun of Average Strength : 


The happy events are mixed with health problems, 
clash with the government , loss of reputation etc. 


Weak Sun as year lord makes a person wander 
from place to place without any aim, causes mental 
and physical worries and displeasure of the 
government. 


2. Moon: 


Strong: Health and prosperity of mother, 
intelligence, interaction and general attitude towards 
society, popularity, favors from government, important 
government post, wealth arid happiness. 


124 Varshaphala 


V.P. Singh: Annual Horoscope for 1 8 -58* year 
complete 


25.6.1989 


4:34 


VP Singh became 7: Prime Minister of India on 2.12. 1989. 
In Bhava chart Sun is in lagna. 


Ascendant 28°52', Sun 9°40', Moon 21°07', Mars 
11°29', Mercury 18°07', Jupiter 28°23', Venus 1°00' 
Saturn (R) 17°27', Rahu 4°48' 


Moon in this horoscope is lord of the year with 
moderate strength of 13.62 units but it is in a 
powerful kendra 10% house in the rasi of Yogakarka 
Saturn who is aspecting its own 10m house from 81. 
The 10: house and Moon are also aspected by Mars 
(Parashari aspect) who being debilitated lord of 
12 in 3 is giving Raj Yoga. Mars is also with lagna lord 
Venus. 


Muntha is also well placed in lagna. Its lord 
Venus is well placed in 3rd house. 


The other important features of the horoscope 
are location of Sun as lord of fourth house in lagna in 
Bhava chart together with lord of fifth house Mercury 
as also with natural benefic Jupiter. 


Average: The above results are mixed. Displeasure 
from Government, loss of wealth and popularity. 


Lord of the Year-Varshesha 125 


Weak or afflicted Moon: Mental anguish, danger 
to mother, loss of wealth, action from government, 
quarrels mn the fem fy, serious ihess and losses etc. 
1. Mars: 

Strong: High rank and political status. Lands 
houses, brothers and sisters, energy, dash, drive 
and sexual prowess. Victory over enemies. 

Average : Mars will give both kind of results good 
and bad while weak or afflicted Mars will give 
accidents, fires trouble with brothers, theft, litigation 
injury to the body, small pox, cancer etc. The aspect 
of Jupiter mitigates the harm to a great extent. 

2. Mercury: Strong speech, intellect, ability to 
comprehend to discriminate, level of education etc. 

Success in journalism, business, name and fame 
as a writer, many friends and happy life. 

Weak Mercury gives losses in business, nervous 
breakdown, skin problems, and incoherent speech. 
Person becomes irreligious. Loss of prestige. There is 
no physical strength and loses temper easily. May 
become false witness and lose his friends. 

Loss of Power by VP Singh on 7.11.1990 


Annual 


Horoscope 
25.6.1990 
10:51 AM 


Asd 19° 18' , Sun 9°40' , Moon 12°43', Mars 24° 
14', Mercury 00°.38' Jupiter 24°17', Venus 6°31', 
Saturn 29°41', Rahu 13°51’ 


126 Varshaphala 


Mercury is the year lord with moderate strength 
14.51. The lord of the year has following defects 
1. It is of 00.38 degrees with no power. 

2. Though it is in its own house in 11th with Jupiter 
who besides being lord of 5th is also lord of eight. 
It is also combust by being with Sun . 

3. Mercury is being aspected by Saturn who as lord 
of 6 is in opposition to it. 

4. Mercury , year lord is also squared by Mars from 
the 8m house. 

5. Lagna lord of the annual chart Sun is aspected by 
two malefics retrograde Saturn and Mars from the 
8".It is also with the 8m lord Jupiter of the annual 
horoscope and 'Marka' Mercury. 

1. Jupiter: Strong gives wisdom, wealth, children, 
fame, and knowledge of higher things, high status 
and general prosperity. 

Weak Jupiter causes loss in reputation, wealth 
and problems in family and career. Gives a boastful 
nature and sense of clear direction is missing. Causes 
ill luck and victim of false allegations. Every thing 
works against him. 

2. Venus: Strong happy married life, artistic bend 
of mind, conveyances, popularity with other sex, good 
and beautiful looks and wealth etc. Rolls in luxuries 
and is victorious over enemies. 

If Venus is of moderate strength the above traits 
are modified. If aspected by a malefic or in inimical 
sign the native suffers from loss of wealth. 

If Venus is very weak or has little strength, one 
passes through a period of financial difficulty. His wife 
and family turn against him. All efforts to improve his 
lot meet with failure. Luck fails him every where.- 

3. Saturn: Strong, ability for hard work and 
concentration of mind, longevity, causes sorrow and 
suffering, Land and influence over masses. Gain from 
low class people including foreigners, property and 
wealth, factories and servants. Success in elections. 
He is learned and respected by people of his own clan. 


Lord of the Year-Varshesha ty 


He may dig wells and tanks. 

Weak Saturn - disgrace, loss of job, theft, death in 
the family, unhappy married life, sorrows and 
diseases. Fond of other men's wives. Obstacles and 
fear from enemies but if Saturn has ithasala with 
benefic planets the harmful effects are decreased. 

In interpreting the houses, the normal rules of 
astrology would apply e.g. bhava flourishes if it contains 
its own lord or is aspected by it, as also if benefic 
planets influence it by aspect or position. Strength of 
the lords of houses is also important. 

Importance of the Year Lord. 

Lord of the year influences the events during the 
whole of year. Its strength not only in the annual chart 
but also in the birth chart is important. The results should 
not be seen only from the annual chart If planet is very 
strong in annual chart but weak in birth chart then many 
good results should not be expected. 

The planet having ithasala, with lord of the year gives 
good results according to its own nature. Some good result 
may be felt if a benefic is in Esrapha yoga with the year 
lord. Ithasala with a malefic will give bad results. 

According to Tajak Neelkanthi the planet or the year, lord 
gives results according to the nature of his ‘hadda’and the 
nature of the planet having ithasala with him. A planet 
that bestows certain results may not be able to deliver 
the same results in a particular year if it is in Esrapha 
yoga with the year lord. If that planet has an ithasala 
with the lagna lord or the year lord in the progressed 
chart it will give those results. If it is in Esrapha yoga with 
any of these two planets it will give their results. If the 
tenth lord for example, occupies or aspects the 10m house 
it will give a good job to the native in its dasha but if it is in 
esrapha yoga with the lagna lord or with the year lord in a 
particular year then it may not be so good for profession. 
Similarly if a planet is lagna lord in a particular year it 
may be ascertained as to how its position is in hadda of 
the birth chart. The nature of aspects on it whether 
those of a friend or an enemy should be kept in view. 


Chapter-VIII 
Tajak Yogas 


In Annual Horoscope 16 Tajak yogas are used, which 
are different from Parashari Yogas. These are more 
akin to Western astrological system, where concept 
of applying and separating is used. While all the 16 
yogas are important in their own way, the basic Yogas 
are only six in number, the rest only modify or amend 
the basic ones. 


Yoga means union. It is basically the combination of 
planets for good or bad. Normally two planets are involved, 
Ascendant, which we will call lagnesh and significator or 
Karyesh (e.g. the significator for marriage is lord of the 
7th house, while the significator for children would be lord 
of 5th). These yogas are the same as are used in horary 
astrology. Out of all the yogas the most important ones are 
two, the Ithasala Yoga and Ishraf Yoga or applying or 
separating yogas. 


Before we describe Ithasala and Ishraf yogas, there 
are two other yogas that are mentioned in classical texts. 
These are Iqbal and friduvara yoga. These are like Nabhas 
yogas of Parashari system and are easy to remember. 


1. IQBAL YOGA - Yoga for good fortune. 


Iqbal means great name, fame and prosperity. When 
all the planets in the annual chart are in kendras 
(quadrants) houses 1, 4, 7, 10, and panpharas (succedent 
houses), 2, 5, 8 and 11, this yoga is caused. The basic 
principle of Astrology is that the planets in kendras 
become very strong. The essential condition of this yoga is 
that the lagna lord should be strong. If this yoga is present 
in the annual chart, the year proves to be good and fortunate 
one. 


Tajak Yogas 129 


Example -I 


In this annual horoscope lagna lord Moon is strong, 
being in its own house and all the planets are in 
kendras or Panpharas. Sun is exalted and digbally 
and is exchanging house with lord of 10 Mars. Saturn 
is in its own house. This annual chart has Iqbal Yoga 
in full and will give excellent results during the year. 
2. INDUVAR YOGA : Yoga for Misfortune 

As against Iqbal yoga this yoga is yoga of misfortune. If 
all the planets are located in Apoklima houses (cadent 
houses), houses 3, 6, 9 and 12, this rule is caused. Planets 
in cadent houses become weak. This yoga should not be 
followed blindly, as the malefics give best results in houses 
3. 6 (and incidentally in 11). 

Example -II 
Date of Birth 13.03.1947,7:55 AM 


Horoscope 


For 1989 
_ Induvar Yoga 


130 Varshaphala 


In this annual horoscope for 1989 all the planets are 
in 3, 6, and 9 houses forming Induvar Yoga. Muntha lord 
Mercury is in 3% in Rahu/Ketu axis with 6 and 11 lord 
Venus and fiery planet Sun, Jupiter is in 6 with 8m lord 
Moon and malefic fiery planet Mars. The wife of this person 
died in fire accident in that year. 

3. ITHASALA YOGA 
To understand Ithasala Yoga, we must member 

the following concepts, 

i) There must be an aspect between the planets. In 
Tajak system the planets do not aspect if they are 
located 6/8 or 2/12 to each other. In the following 
horoscope Mercury and Jupiter are located in axis 
2/12 from each other, and Venus and Mars are 
situated in axis 6/8 from each other. Hence, Mercury 
and Jupiter do not aspect each other and no yoga is 
formed. Similar is the case with Venus and Mars. 


Lagna 4° 15’, Sun 15° 18', Moon 4° 11’, Mars 11° 12', 
Mercury 9° 14', Jupiter 19° 12', Saturn 21° 23’. Rahu 7° 12' 
ii) Ithasala Yoga is the yoga of intermixing between two 

planets and uses the concept of lagnesh and Karyesh. 

Lagnesh is the lagna or ascendant lord and Karyesh 

is the significator. To answer the question whether 

one will get married or not there must be a union 
between ascendant lord or lagnesh and the 7th lord 
which is the significator of marriage. So in this case 
the karyesh becomes 7th lord. To answer the question 


Tajak Yogas 131 


whether one will get promotion or not, the lagnesh 
would be 1st lord Venus and karyesh would be 10th 
lord Moon. In case of query about wealth the laganesh 
would be 1st lord Venus and karyesh would be 2nd 
lord Mars or 2na lord of wealth Mars becomes lagnesh 
and 11" lord of gains Sun becomes karyesh. 

iil) Since the Ithasala Yoga involves intermixing of two 
planets it follows that the faster planet should be 
behind the slow moving planet. The faster planet 
would only catch up with the slow moving planet if it 
were behind it If it is in front of it, then in the course of 
time it will move still further away or separate from it 
The fast moving planets are as follows: 


1. Moon is the fastest of all the planets and the rest 
are in following order, 


Mercury 
Venus 

Sun 

Mars 
Jupiter and 
Saturn 


For forming an Ithasal between Mars and Saturn, 
the Mars should be behind Saturn. 

Now what do we mean by word ‘behind’? This is 
determined by the longitude of the planets by omitting 
their rasis and determining their longitude in degrees 
and minutes. The planet with lesser longitude is 
behind the planet with more longitude. In the above 
horoscope the longitude of Mars without rasis is 11° 
12' and that of Jupiter is 19°12'. Since the longitude 
of Mars is less than that of Jupiter it is behind it. And 
as Mars is faster than Jupiter and behind a slower 
planet, there is Ithasala Yoga. 

iv) Next is how much the faster planet should be behind 
the slow moving planet. For this the concept of 
Deepthamsa or Orb of influence is used. Beyond this 
orb the planet loses its influence.Ithasala yoga can 


a Oe ie 


132 Varshaphala 


only occur if the planets are within orb of influence 

of each other. The deepatamsha of each planet is as 

follows 
DEEPTAMSHA OF PLANETS 
Sun Moon’ Jupiter Saturn Mars Mercury Venus 
15° 12° 9° 9° 8° T T 

THE CLOSER THE PLANETS ARE DEGREE WISE TO 
EACH OTHER the greater the influence they exert for 
Ithasal to occur. In actual practice to calculate whether 
the Ithasal Yoga has occurred or not we take the mean of 
the deeptamsha ofthe two planets. For example whether 
there is Ithasal between Sun and Moon or not we would 
add deeptamsha of Sun which is 15 degrees and Moon 
12 degrees and divide by 2. The resultant degrees are 
13°.30': (15°+ 12° = 13°.30}. 

2 

There should be an aspect i.e. the two planets 
should not be situated in 2/12 or 6/8 axis with each 
other. 
ii) The fast moving planet should be behind the slow 

moving planet. 
iii) The two planets fall within their deeptamsha 

range See the following, 


Lagna 5° 27' , Sun 11° 15', Moon 6° 12', Mars 9 ° 
25', Mercury 7° 15', Jupiter 25° 21' Saturn 10° 20’. 
Rahu 16° 12', Venus 29 ° 5' 


Tajak Yogas 133 


In this example-A we have to judge whether the 
person concerned will get promotion or not The concerned 
planets.are the ascendant lord, and the 10th lord. In case 
these form Ithasal yoga the chances are the person will 
get his promotion. In this case lagnesh is Mars with the 
longitude of 9 ° 25', the 10th lord or karyesh is Saturn 
with 10° 22' degrees located in the 3rd house. 

Now we have to judge whether all the three conditions 
above are satisfied 
(i) Is there an aspect between Mars and Saturn? In this 

case since the planets are located in 3,11 houses 

from each other, there is aspect between the two. 

(ii) Is fast moving planet behind slow moving planet? Mars 
is fast moving as compared to Saturn. Its degrees 
minus rasi are 9 ° 25'. Since the degrees of Saturn 
are 10° 22' , which are more than that of Mars, fast 
moving Mars is behind slow moving Saturn. 

(iiijIs there any ithasala between these two planets 
and are these two planets within deeptamsha 
range of each other? Deeptamsha of Mars is 8 °, 
and that of Saturn is 9 °*. 8 ° + 9 ° divided by 2 is 
8 ° 30'. The difference between longitude of Mars 
and Saturn is 10° 22'- 9° 25'= 0° 57' 

Hence there is Ithasala between the two. 
Types of the Ithasala Yoga 


There are three types of Ithasala Yoga. 

(i) THE VARTAMAN ITHASALA (or the Ithasala in 
operation) 

When we use the term Ithasala Yoga it normally 
implies Vartamanithasala or the Ithasala in operation. 
This happens if the conditions mentioned above are 
satisfied. 

i) There is yoga or mutual aspect between the two 
planets, lagnesh and karyesh. It means planets 
are not in 2/12 or 6/8 positions. 

ii) The fast movin;, plane is behind slow moving 


34 Varshaphala 


planet meaning fast moving planet is having less 
longitude or less number of degrees than slow 
moving planet. 


iv) The two planets fall within their deeptamsha range 
as has been explained above. 


The following is the annual horoscope of Mrs. 
Margaret Alva for the year 1973. She became member 
of Rajya Sabha on 2.4.1974. In the annual horoscope 
there is ithasala yoga between Mars lord of 10 and 
Lagna lord Saturn. Mars is faster than Saturn and 
is behind Saturn as its degrees are less than that of 
Saturn. Mars is having friendly aspect on Saturn (5/ 
9 aspect). This is yoga for success in profession as 
lord often represents profession, titles, honours etc. 

There is another Ithasala yoga between lord of 
11 Jupiter and lagna lord, Saturn. The Moon is in 
kendra the seventh house of 'Pad Prapti'. 7m is 10' from 
10m. Lord of 7. Sun is exalted in 3rd house. 
Margaret Alva 


Jupis°21 


Asdl13°37', Sun 0°21', Moon 17°14', Mars 19°20', 
Mer 2° 59', Jupiter 15°21’, Venus 1°26’, Saturn 23°13’, 
Rahu 18°10". 

(ii) THE POORNA ITHASALA ( Complete or 
perfect Ithasala) 

This yoga must fulfil the following two conditions. 


Tajak Yogas 135 


i) Mutual aspect between lagnesh and karyesha 
(or two planets performing yoga meaning again 
they are not in 2/12 or 6/8 position) 

ii) The fast moving planet is behind slow moving 
planet but within one degree. 


In this horoscope there is Poorna Ithasla between 
lagna lord Jupiter and 5 lord Mars, as Mars fast moving 
planet is lessthan | behind slow moving planet Jupiter. 
This means there will be birth of child in this year. 
(iii) RAST - ANTA MUTHASLL : 

Rasi - Anta means end of a sign or rasi. If a fast 
moving planet is located at the end of the sign 29° or 
more in arasi, it is at rashi-anta. In the exmple horoscope 
A, Venus a faster moving planet than Jupiter is having a 
longitude of 29°05', it has no Ithasal with Jupiter, as 
Jupiter is located in the 2nd house from it and as such 
has no aspect. Venus also does not aspect Saturn the 
10th lord, as it is in the 6th also from it and" ahead. 
However, the position would change once Venus crosses 
over to next rasi i.e. Aquarius then it would be within 
the Deeptamsha range of both Jupiter and Saturn. Thus 
in Rashi anta Muthasil the faster moving planet which 
must be at the end of rasi at 29 or more, operate from 
the next house. 

(iv) BHAVISHYAT ITHASALA 

This is Ithasal yoga, which may take place at a future 

date. Take this example : lagna lord is Sun, and 5m lord 


136 Varshaphala 


is Jupiter. Sun, the faster planet is behind Jupiter, with 
the longitude of 11° 15'. The longitude of Jupiter is 25°21". 
The mean difference between the deepathamsa of Sun 
and Jupiter is 15°+9°= 24 , divided by 2, which is equal to 
12°. However, the difference between the longitude of 
two planets is 25°21'-11°15' = 14°6' which is more than 12. 
So while technically there is no Ithasal between the two 
this may happen in future when the Sun crosses 13°21'. 
degree further. 


Bhavishya 
Ithasala 


Some authorities, however, hold that planets 
should be within deeptamsa range. In that case this 
yoga is nothing else but Ithasala Yoga in operation. 

By Ithasala Yoga it must be understood to mean that 
event will take place whether good or bad depending on 
the lordship of the houses involved. Ithasala between the 
first and 5th house promises birth of children, Whereas 
Ithasala between Ist and 6th lord may portend 
involvement in accident or catching some disease. 

Important points to remember : As the retrograde 
planet moves in the reverse direction, therefore, a faster 
retrograde planet even though behind a slow moving will 
not be able to make Ithasal yoga. Similar would be the 
case if both the planets were retrograde. But if the slow 
moving planet is retrograde then the intensity of Ithasal 
Yoga would increase. 

4. ISHRAPHA YOGA OR THE YOGA OF 'SEPARATION 

This is also known as ‘Mushrif yoga'. In contrast to 
Ithasla yoga, this is the yoga of denial, disappointment 


Tajak Yogas 137 


non-occurrence of the event and failure. The following 

two conditions are implied’ 

i) There should be an aspect between the planets 
lagnesh and karyesh. 

ii) And the fast moving planet should be ahead of slow 
moving planet by one degree or more. 

In the following horoscope, the lord of wealth (lord 
of the second house ) Mars is the lagnesh with 5°05’. 
Lord of eleventh house is Sun, karyesh, who is faster 
than Mars but is ahead with 9°03'. Hence there will 
be no financial gains this year. 


Lagna 
Sun 
9° 03' 


5. NAKTA YOGA OR Yoga of fast linkage 


i) In this yoga there is no aspect, between lagnesh 
and karyesh, i.e.; the planets are situated in 2/ 
12, or 6/8 axis to each other. As there is no 
aspect there is no Ithasala Yoga. 

ii) However, a link is provided by a third planet, which 
is faster than the other two and is forming Ithasal 
with both lagnesh and karyesh encompassing them 
both within its Deeptamsa . In this way it transfers 
the glow or 'Teja'from the planet behind (the faster 
to lagnesh and karyesh ) to the one ahead ( the 
slower of the two) planet to the faster planet. 
This implies the fulfillment of the object with 

the help/intervention of someone else. See the following 

example. 


138 Varshaphala 


The question is about the property. The lagnesh, 
the lagna lord Venus, does not make Ithasal with 
karyesh the 4th lord Sun as it is in 2/12 position 
and is also ahead of Sun, slower planet. Moon, faster 
than the two is making Ithasal with both Venus and 
Sun i.e. it is collecting light from Venus and 
transferring to Sun. This means work will be done 
with the help of a 3rd person represented by Moon 
the 3rd lord. It could be with the help of coborn or 
mother, signified by Moon. 


6. YAMAYA YOGA 


While in Nakta Yoga, the linkage is provided through a 
faster planet, in Yamaya Yoga , linkage is through a 
slower planet In the above horoscope there is no Ithasal 
yoga between lagnesh Venus lagna lord and Mars 7t lord 
of marriage. But both Venus and Mars are having Ithasal 
with Saturn, the 9th and 10th lord. It means help in 
marriage through boss (tenth house) or father/Guru 
(ninth house). 


7. MANAOO YOGA 


Manaoo has been derived from Arabic word 
“Mamnooh”, which means forbidden. 


If ithasal yoga is inirnically aspected by a malefic, 
Saturn or Mars or both, or is conjunct with either 
this yoga is caused. This also happens if Mars’ or 


Tajak Yogas 139 


Saturn are within the deepathamsa range while 
aspecting or being conjunct with the faster planet. The 
malefic planet spoils the good effect of ithasal yoga. 

In the following example while there is ithasal 
between Mars, and Venus, association of Venus with 
Saturn nullifies the good effect. 


8. KAMBOOLA YOGA 

In case there is Ithasal between two planets, and 
Moon also joins in ithasal with either one or both the 
planets, the yoga is strengthened and is known as 
Kambool yoga. See the horoscope, in this there is ithasal 
between lagnesh Mars and karyesh, the 10th lord Sun, 
which means elevation in profession. In this combination 
Moon is also having ithasal with lagnesh Mars, which is 
providing added strength to the yoga 


Different Varieties of Kamboola Yoga 


Kamboola Yoga is strong or weak according to the 
position and strength of Moon and planets concerned. 
1. The Yoga is extremely strong if the lagna lord and 

the planets forming yoga are very strong - meaning 

they are in their own signs or in the signs of their 
exaltation. 

2. Yoga is of medium strength if planets are in their 
own signs in navamsa or hudda. 

3. The yoga is weak if planets are in debility or in 
the houses of their enemies. The classical books 


140 


Varshaphala 


further gives details of this yoga, whether strongest, 
stronger or strong depending upon the strength of 
lords of lagna and other concerned planets .These 
varieties are: 


Uttom-O-Uttam or best. 


Here Moon and the concerned planets or either 
exalted or in their own houses. Moon's ithasala with 
even one of the planets who is strong is enough to 
cause this yoga 

Uttam Madhyamor medium Good. 


Here planets involved in yoga are in their own 
hudda/navamsa drekkan. And Moon is in ithasala 
from its own sign or sign of exaltation. 


Uttam Kambool :Here planets concerned are in the 
signs of neutrals and Moon is strong. 


Uttam AdhamYoga : (Best of worst) 


If the lagna lord and other concerned planets 
forming ithasala are in the signs of debilitation or 
of enemies, and Moon has ithasala with any one of 
them in its own house or house of exaltation. 


Madhyam Uttam Yoga (Good - Medium): 


Concerned planets are in their signs of exaltation 
or in their own houses. Moon is in its own sign in 
navamsa or drekkan. 


Madhyam —Madhyam 


Concerned planets are in their own Vargas 
(navamsa, drekkan or hudda)}-Moon is in its own 
drekkan 


Madhyam Kambbola : 


Planets in medium dignities ie in the signs of 
neutral. 


Uttam Kambool: Concerned planets in their own 


Tajak Yogas 141 


signs / signs of exaltation -Moon in sign of its 
neutral. 

9. Madhyam Kamboola: 
Planets in their own vargas, Moon not in dignity ie 
not exalted or n+s own own sign etc. 

10. Adham Kamboola Yoga : Concerned planets in 
debilitation and Moon, in the sign of neutral. 

11. Adham — O- Uttam Kamboola Yoga 
Planets concerned in debilitation or in enemy signs- 
Moon exalted or in its own sign. 

12. Adham Madhyam Kamboola 
Moon debilitated or in enemy sign - other planets 
in their own rasi, Audda or drekkan. 

13. Adham Kamboola: 
Moon debilitated or in enemy signs in ifhasala with 
other planets. 
This is not a good yoga. Success is achieved after 
great hard Work. 

14. Adham -Adham Kamboola : All planets including 
Moon debilitated or in enemy sign. 

9. GHAIRI KAMBOOL YOGA 


Ghair in Arabic means outsider. In this yoga this 
means the achievement of the objective through the 
help of a third party. It implies following conditions, 


i) Lagnesh and karyesh are in ithasal 

ii) A strong third planet (own sign, exalted, or in own 
Vargas) also establishes an ithasal with either one 
or both of them. 


ui) An unqualified Moon which is neither exalted, nor 
debilitated aspected/associated, nor inits own hudda, 
drekkan or navamsha on entering the next sign 
establishes Ithasala with lagnesh/ Karyesh and 


142 Varshaphala 


iv) Some powerful planet. 
This yogas leads to success after intervention with 
some one else. 
10. KHALLASAR YOGA 
This is the negation of Ithasala Yoga. It implies 
following conditions. Question is of marriage. 
i) Lagnesh and Karyesh are in ithasala 
ii) An unqulified Moon, neither conjunct with or 
aspecting either Lagnesh or Karyesh. 
Result : This yoga leads to destruction of result 
of Kamboola Yogas. 


Asc-12.27', Sun 25.53' Moon 8.13’ Mars 12.41’ 
Mer 2.30 Jup 5.57’ Sat 6.15' Rahu-Ketu- 15.59’ 
Main Features :- 
1. The lagnesh Jupiter and karyesh Mercury are in 
ithasala. 


2. Unqualified Moon placed in 2nd house is neither 
conjunct nor aspecting Lagnesh or Karyesh. 


11. RADDA YOGA 


Lagnesh and Karyesh are in Ithasala, but one of 
the planets forming this yoga is in retrogression or in 
combustion. This results is success after much troubles. 
If one ofthe planets is strongly placed, there might be 
gains in initial stages but disappointment later. 


Tajak Yogas 143 


Asc-8°.02' Sun 14°.38' Moon 17°.53' Mars 18°.50* Mer 
10°.20’' Jup 16°.13' (R) Yen 5°.24' Sat 24°.36' Rahu- 
Ketu- 18°.49' 
Main Features :- 
1. The lagnesh Mercury and karyesh Jupiter are in 
ithasala. 
2. Karyesh Jupiter is retrogate here and is under 
malefic influence of Rahu. 
12. DUPHAU KUTTHA YOGA 
Two planets are in Ithasala with each other. Out 
of these two, the slower one is exalted. in its own 
house or otherwise strong. The faster one is neither 
exalted nor in its own house and neither retrograde 
nor combust. 


Asc-r.43' Sun 0°.46' Moon 24°.52' Mars 3°.36' Mer26°.50° 
Jup 24°.44' Ven 24°.43' Sat 0°.44' Rahu-Ketu-16°.05' 


144 Varshaphala 


1. The lagnesh Mercury and karyesh Moon are in 
ithasala. 
2. The lagnesh Mercury aslower moving planet than Moon 
and is exalted in Lagna 
3. The faster moving planet Karyesh Moon is nither 
combust, retrogade, deblitated or in own house. 
RESULT; 
Success, fulfillment of desires and realization of 
ambition. 
Ifthe faster moving planet is retrograde, combust, 
the yoga is not operative 
13. DUTTOTA DAVDZA YOGA 


Both lagnesh (Ascendant) and karyesh (significator) of 
the event are weak but one of them has an ithasala 
with another 3rd planet who is strongly placed i.e. in 
exaltation, own house etc. 

Result: Success with the help ofthe third person. 


Asc- 5°.55' Sun 28°.38' Moon 4°.34' Mars 18°.44' Mer 19°.23' 
Jup 9°.31' Ven 12°.22°Sat 28°.02' Rahu~Ketu-14°.10' 


Main Features :- 

1. The lagnesh Mars and kKaryesh Sun are not in 
ithasala. (Question is about job). 
The lagnesh and karyesh are weak. 


The lagnesh Mars is in ithasala with Venus which 
is placed in its own Mooltrikona sign-Libra. 


Tajak Yogas 145 


14. THAMBIRA YOGA 

When a well placed fast planet at the end ofa sign is 
about to form Ithasala with a slow moving planet in the 
next sign, this yoga is caused. This favours fulfillment of 
desires. 
15. KUTTHA YOGA 

Here planet in the Ascendant is aspected by a well- 
placed planet in its own sign or in exaltation, from a 
kendra, trikona etc. 

Result: Success and victory. 
16. DURUPHA YOGA 

Lagnesh or Karyesh both weak, being placed in 
6, 8, and 12 and are combust, debilitated, in enemy's 
sign etc and are in Ithasala. 

Result: Planets are weak and cannot deliver 
satisfactory results. 


Asc- 24° 04' Sun 4°47 Moon 0° 43' Mars 4° 53' Mer 1° 29' 
Jup 9° 26' Venus 19° 45' Sat 11° 21' Rahu-Ketu-21° 31' 


Main Features :- (Question about wealth) 

(i) | Lagnesh Jupiter and Karyesh Saturn both in 6. 
(ii) | Lagnesh and Karyesh are weak. 

(iii) Lagnesh and Karyesh are retrograde. 


Chapter-IX 
Sahams 


Sahams are important sensitive points in the annual 
horoscope and have to be manipulated by subtracting / 
adding longitudes of planets concerned and ascendant 
etc. This sensitive point, after its placement in the annual 
chart is to be studied according to normal rules of 
astrology. If it is placed in a benefic rasi and in a good 
house and aspected by benefics, and its lord is also well 
placed, then the event will give good results during the 
dasha of planets concerned. Astrologers of the olden time 
were very fond of giving predictions on the basis of these 
Sahams and arriving at the timing of events, like 
marriage, birth of children etc. as each Saham holds 
sway over a particular event of life during that year. 

It may, however, be noted that before working out 
a Saham it important to see from the birth chart 
whether the particular event is going to happen or 
not. For example do not look for Vivah or Marriage 
Saham if marriage is not promised in the birth chart. 
Similarly, it is no use looking for children or Putra 
Saham if the children are denied in the birth chart. 
Before working out the Saham Birth chart and dasha 
scheme should be carefully scrutinized. 

NUMBER OF SAHAMS 

The classical writers mention from 25 to 50 such 
Sahams.Neelkantha mentions 50 Sahams while Keshva 
makes use of only 25 such Sahams. For our purpose we 
will mention only few of important nature. 

HOW TO CALCULATE SAHAMS 

Suppose the question is asked about profession. 
The name of the Saham for profession is Karma 
Saham. This is calculated as per longitude of planets 
and cusp of Ascendant. 

i) Varsha Parvesh day birth—Mars-Mercury+ Ascendant 


Sahams 147 


ii) Varsha Parvesh During night—Mercury -Mars + 
Ascendant 

Important Conditions 

1. The time of birth and longitude of the planets is to 
be judged from the annual chart. The day birth 
means birth between sunrise and sunset, and 
night birth means birth between sunset and 
sunrise. 


2. The formula for calculation of Sahams is as is 
seen above A (Mars) - B (Mercury) + C (Ascendant). 
(During day birth) 

Essential condition — Ifthe Ascendant does not fall 
between B and A (not A and Bj, COUNTED IN THE 
REGULAR ORDER, ADD ONE RASHI TO THE 
RESULTANT FIGURE. It will be observed that B 
represents the planet whose longitude is required to be 
deducted from the longitude of another planet A. 
Example 


The time of birth of annual chart 10.30 AM. It is 
a day birth, therefore, the formula would be: Mars - 
Mercury + Ascendant. 


Mars is 4s 16° 25'5° - A 
Mercury is lls 6°, 15' - B 
Ascendant 2s, 12°,11’ - C 
(A-B) 4s 16° 25' 

: lls 06° 15 


5s 10° 10' 


148 Varshaphala 


Note : Add 12 rasis a 1 ls cannot be subtracted from 4. 

+C 2s 12° ll 

Karma Saham = 7s 22 21 

Since Ascendant C is between B and A there is no 
reason to add | rasi. Therefore, Karma Saham would be in 
Scorpio sign. 

The important Sahams are as follows: 

1 Punya or Fortune Day Birth Moon - Sun + Asd. 
Night Birth Sun- Moon + Asd. 

Special Position of Punya Saham 

Out of all the Sahams Punya Saham is considered to 
be the most important. This Saham is trend setter for 
whole of the year. If the Saham is good, well placed and 
well aspected the whole year is bound to be 
good. 

Ifthe Punya Saham is conjoined with or aspected by 
malefics and devoid of benefic influences, this does not 
augur well for the whole year, and the year is full of 
difficulties and tribulations. In the Varshaphala Punya 
Saham has an important role, and special care should 
be taken to assess its contribution. To still get a better 
picture Punya Saham should also be worked out in the 
birth chart and evaluated as described above. 

It is suggested that in all annual horoscopes the 
Punya Saham should be worked out first. The year in 
which Punya Saham is well placed proves good for the 
native as he develops religious feelings as well as gains 
wealth during that year. 

Punya Saham is strong if it is aspected by or is 
associated with its own lord or benefics. 

Ifthe Punya Saham is mthe 6m, 8" or 12m houses 
it is not a good position and may cause harm. But if 
the Saham is aspected by benefics the evil results 
are mitigated to some extent. In the first half of the 
year there may be misfortunes followed by good 
luck in later part of the year. However, aspected or 
associated with malefics is unfortunate and the whole 
year may be unlucky. 


Sahams 149 


Example Horoscope 

Jawahar Lal Nehru became the first Prime Minister 
of Independent India on 15.8. 1947. He was born on 
14th November, 1889, at 11.03 PM at Allahabad. We 
are required to make the chart of annual horoscope 
for the 58th year. This means he completes 57 years 
of birth on!4th November, 1946.The annual horoscope 
would be as follows 


1. Ascendant Aquarius 23°57' 

2. Sun Scorpio 0°16' 

3. Moon Leo 05°51’ 

4. Mars Scorpio 13°49' 

5. Mercury Scorpio 12°04'(R) 
6. Jupiter Libra 18°03' 

7. Venus Scorpio 02°36’ (R) 
8. Saturn Cancer 15°44' 

9. Rahu Taurus 19°27' 


Annual 
Horoscope 
1946-47 
J. Nehru 
13:47 Hrs. 


Punya Saham: 


Moon 4s 5° 5. 
- Sun 7s O° 16 
+ Asd 10s 23° 57' 


Punya Saham 7s 29° 32' Since the Asd. is between Sun 
and Moon it is not necessary to add one sign. 


150 Varshaphala 


A Powerful Saham 


Saham in this case is located in the most powerful 
kendra the 10th house with its lord Mars with directional 
strength in its own sign wish Raj Yoga karka Venus and 
powerful 7th lord Sun again having directional strength in 
the axis of exalted Rahu and Ketu. Mars as 10th lord is 
having ithasal yoga (see chapter on yogas) with lagna lord 
Saturn. 

2. Yash Saham (Saham for Fame) 

Day Birth Jupiter - Punya Saham + Asd. 

Night Birth Punya Saham - Jupiter + Asd. 

Yash Saham in the above horoscope for day birth 
would be calculated as follows: 

Jupiter - Punya Saham + Asd 


Jupiter 6s 18° 03' 
- Punya Saham -7s 29° 32" 
+ Asd. + 10s 23° 57’ 
Yash Saham Os. 12> 28° 


Yash Saham is in the 12th house aspected by its 
own lord and having benefic aspect of Sun, Venus, 
Mars, Mercury and exalted Rahu/Ketu. 12 th house 
represents foreign. No wonder Nehru had earned great 
renown and fame all over the world. 


3. Mahatmya or 
Greatness Day Birth Punya- Mars + Asd. 
Night Birth Mars- Punya + Asd. 
4. Rajya or King Day Birth Saturn - Sun + Asd. 
Night Birth Sun - Saturn + Asd. 
RAJA SAHM OR RAJYA SAHAM 
let us calculate Rajya Saham in this case 
For day birth Rajya Saham is Saturn - Sun + Asd 
Saturn 3s So 44' 
-Sun 7s OF «de! 


Sahams 151 


+ Asd. 10s: — 23° * 57" 

Rajya Saham ss = Ts “OO 25! 

It is not necessary to add 1 sign as Ascendant is 
between Sun and Saturn. 


Rajya Saham is again in the 10th house with its 
lord Mars. It is again very powerful. See above 
comments regarding Punya Saham. 

5. Asha or Desire Day Birth Saturn - Ven + Asd. 
Night Birth Ven - Saturn + Asd. 

6. Karya Siddhi or 
Success Day Birth Saturn - Sun + Lord of Sun sign 
Night Birth Saturn - Moon + 
Lord of Moon sign 


If the Saham is in Ithasala with benefics person is 
victorious over his enemies. If it is aspected by malefics or 
in Ithasala with malefics victory will come after much effort 


7. Kali Saham - Saham for strife 
Day Birth Jupiter - Mars + Ascendant 
Night Birth Mars - Jupiter + Birth 
Conjoined or aspected by benefics gives victory 
while association with both malefics and benefics 
could cause death in quarrels especially if malefics 
form Muthasil yoga. Association with both types of 
planets gives quarrels, strife and controversies. 
8. Pitru or Father 
Day Birth Saturn - Sun + Asd. 
Night Birth Sun - Saturn + Asd. 
1. Father gets happiness, wealth, honour and fame on 


account of son if Pitru Saham is associated / aspected 
by its lord or benefics. 


2. With Pitru lord weak, combust, posited in 8m having 
Musarifa yoga with a malefic the father of the native 
dies. He dies in a foreign land if Saham lord 
occupies any of movable or 'char' rasis. 


152 Varshaphala 


3. Association /aspect with both benefics and malefics 
father falls sick first and gets comforts from son 
later on. 

4. With Pitru Saham very strong one gets honours 
from the state. 

9. Matru or Mother 
Day Birth Moon - Venus + Asd. 

Night Birth Venus - Moon + Asd. 

10. Putru or Children 
Day Birth Jupiter- Moon + Asd. 

Same for night and day. Add one rasi if need be. 

1. Ason is born ifthe Saham is aspected or associated 
with a benefic. 

2. If Putra Saham has association / aspect of malefics 
but there is ithasala with benefic there are 
inauspicious results in the beginning but happy results 
later on. 

3. There is loss of son if Putra Saham is conjoined with or 
has Esrapha Yoga with malefics and Saham is weak. 

4. Ason is bom ifthe Saham lord also happens to be 
the 5 lord and is aspected by or has association 
with benefics. 

5. In this connection always refer to Punya Saham 
also as Punya Saham affects all walks of life. 
Annual Horoscope for 19.12.996: 1:22 AM (female) 

Birth of first child 23.02 1997 


Annual 
Horoscope 


Sahams 153 


Asd. 19°25', Sun 3°22', Moon 21° 30', Mars 00°32’, Mer 23° 
23’, Jup 28°21', Venus 8° 10', Sat R 7°00" Rah 10°27’. 


Putra Saham = _ Jupiter - Moon + Asd. 
Jupiter 8s 28° 21' 
Moon -lls 21° 30' 
Ascendant +5s 19°25’ 

== 2s 26° 16' 


The Putra Saham is in the powerful kendra 10m 
house. It is aspected by its own lord and powerful 
Jupiter which is also Putrakarka. There is ithasala 
of Mercury Putra Saham lord and lagna lord with 
Jupiter. The other conditions fulfilled in this 
horoscope are Jupiter has already aspected 5m lord 
Saturn and 9: house and lord Venus when it was 
in Scorpio at the time of pregnancy. Saturn is 
aspecting 9: house. (See book of KN Rao ‘Planets 
and Children).There are both malefic and benefic 
aspects on Putra Saham. The delivery of child was 
after one abortion and a daughter was born. 

11. Jeeva or Life 

Day Birth Saturn-Jupiter+ Asd. 

Night Birth Jupiter - Saturn + Asd. 
12.Roga or Disease 

Day Birth Asd. - Moon + Asd. 

Night Birth Moon - Asd + Asd. 

According to another authority 

Day Birth Sat-Moon+Asd 

Night Moon-Sat + Asd 
a) If the Saham lord is conjoined with or aspected 

by malefics there might be some disease. 

b) If the Saham lord be weak there might be even 
death in misery. 

c) If the 8m lord is in Ithasala with the Saham lord 
the native is likely to die during illness. 

d) If Saham lord is not in 6, 8 and 12, and is with 
benefics there is no illness. 


154 Varshaphala 


e) There can be sickness if both malefic and benefic 
aspects are present. 

Example: Loss of Eyesight Due to Accident 

13.10 1919, 5.55 PM (Birth Horoscope) 


Asd 26° 55’, Sun 26° 22', Moon 20° 57', Mars 9° 17', Mer 7° 
36' Jup 21 ° 14’, Venus 19° 55’, Saturn 14° 47', Moon 20° 
57', Jupiter 21 ° 14’, Rahu 3° S1'. 

Accident happened in Saturn Ketu. 

The owner of this chart was a rich man. Wealth 
is visible as lagna lord Jupiter is exalted in the 5m. 
Lord of 5 is exalted in 3 aspecting 9» Bhagyasthan, 
lord of 2in 6m aspecting its own house of wealth and 
presence of Vipreet Rajyogas ensure prosperity. 

Saturn and Mars in the rasi of Sun in the 6. Accident 
happened due to fire in the dasha of Saturn - Ketu. 
The annual chart for the year 1968 at 7:24 Hrs 


Horoscope 


Sahams 155 


Lagna 9°17', Sun 26°22',’Moon 9°18', Mars 19°52’, 
Mer 02°00’, Jup 00°12', Yen 26° 8', Saturn 16° 08' 
Roga Saham ; Asd. 6s 17° 04' 
Moon -2s 09° 18' 
Asd. +6s 17° 04' 
=10s 24° 50' or 4s 24° 50' 
Roga Sahm is in Aquarius and its lord Saturn in 
6m in Rahu/Ketu/axis with inimical aspect of Sun, 
Jupiter. Moon has also malefic square aspect of Saturn. 
The karka for eyes are Sun and Moon and 6% and 12 
houses. 
13. Mrityu or Death 
For Mrityu Saham 
Day Birth Cusp of VII - Moon + Saturn Same for 
day and night 
Death by Suicide, DOB 27.4.1967 


Main features ofthe birth horoscope: The birth 
horoscope does not promise long age as all the three 
lagnas, Asd. Sun and Moon are afflicted. Lagna has 
Saturn Mars axis. Sun is under Rahu Ketu; Moon is 
debilitated and aspected by Venus lord of 3 and 8. 


2. There are no benefics in kendras. Mercury is 
debilitated and has kendaradhipati dosha. 


3. The dasha running at the time of death was Venus- 
Rahu-Rahu. Venus is 3rd and 8th lord in 7: from 


156 Varshaphala 


debilitated Moon and is aspected by Saturn. Rahu 
is in 2na from Lagna in close conjunction with Sun. 


Now see the Annual horoscope for April 1999* 


NYG 


Mio) 
ARS 


Asd3°58', Sun 12° 36', Moon 3° 57’, Mars 9° 21’, Mer 17 ° 
30’, Jupiter 23° 06', Venus 16°.2' Saturn 12° 52', Rahu 
24° 54’. 

MRITYU SAHAM: 

Mrityu Saham Cusp of VIII house - Moon+ Saturn 


Died in May 


Cusp of VIII House 9s 28° 51' 
Longitude of Moon -S5s 03° 57' 
04 24 54 

+12 12 D2 

05s 07° 46' 


Since there is no Asd between Moon and VIII house 
add 1 rasi. 


Mrityu Saham will be 6s 07° 46' 


Mrityu Saham is in the 5i house very. close to 
Mars and aspected by debilitated Saturn and Sun and 
squared by Rahu. It is also 8 from debilitated lagna 
lord Mercury and in 2n6 from Moon. Eighth from Mrityu 
Saham is Venus aspected by Mars. - (Parasari Aspect) 


Sahams 157 


Important Note: Do not look for Mrityu Sahara 
unless the death is visible in birth chart. 


14. Preeti or Love 
Day Birth Saturn-Punya + Asd. 
Night Birth Puniya-Saturn + Asd. 
15. Vivah or Marriage 
Day Birth Venus-Saturn + Asd. 
Same for day and night 
Birth Chart 14.4.1994 , 5 54 PM 


Asd. 10° 32', Sun 0° 37', Moon 1 ° 48', Mars 18° 04’, Jup 
14° 39’, Venus 16° 13', Saturn 10° 38’, Rahu 7° 39' 


Asd. 14° 07', Sun 0° 37', Moon 9° 14’, Mars 6° 05', Mer 14° 
39', Jupiter 17°57', Venus 21°56' Sat 14°56', Rahu 1°49’. 


158 Varshaphala 


This girl got married in December 1994 , in the 
dasha of Venus Mercury. If you look at the birth chart 
Venus is the 5m lord and Mercury 9m lord , both capable 
of giving marriage. 

Now in the Annual Chart for 1994 let us calculate 
Vivah Saham . Vivah Sahm both for day or night birth 
is Venus - Saturn + Ascendant. 


Venus = 12s 21° 56' 
Saturn = -10s 14° 56' 
2s O7° 00' 
Add Ascendant + 5s 14° 07' 
Ts 21° -O7' 


Since lagna is not between Saturn and Venus add 
1 sign. Vivah, Saham, therefore, is 8s, 21°07’. This is 
in Sagittarius, 4" house of the Annual Chart. Its lord 
is Jupiter who is the 7m lord and is aspected by Venus 
the karka for Marriage. 7™lord from Moon is Mars who 
is with lagna lord Mercury. 

According to Tajika Neelkanthi there is no marriage 
during the year if Saham is conjoined with or aspected 
by malefics and is having Muthasil Yoga with the lagna 
lord or the 8t lord. 

If the Saham is having both type of aspects / 
association the marriage becomes difficult proposition. 
Marriage is easily fixed if the Saham is aspected by or 
associated with its own lord or benefices. 

16. Paradara or Adultery 

Day Birth Venus - Sun + Asd. 

Same for day and night 
17. Deshantra or Foreign Travel 

Day Birth IX - 9th lord + Asd. 

Same for day and night 

IX means cusp of 9m house. (Bhav Madhya) 

Let us see how this Saham operates 


Sahams 159 


Birth Chart of a brilliant neuro surgeon 25 .11. 1968, 
11; 20PM 


Asd. 27° 17', Sun 10°07', Moon 15°2', Mars 26°53', Mercury 
5° 14’, Jupiter 20°52*, Venus 28°15', Saturn 18°12’, 
Rahu 3° 4’, (Annual Horoscope 2001). 

Parades Saham Cusp of 9: house-9" lord + Asd +1 


IX House 5s 3°19" 
Sun 4s 10° Q7' 
Asd. +8s 27° 17 


= 9s 20° 29' Add 1 sign as Ascendant is not in 
between 9th lord Sun and 9: house. 

Parades Saham is 10s 20° 29' . It is in the 3rd 
house aspected by 9: lord of travel Sun and 10 lord of 
profession Mercury from the 9 house oflongjourney. 


160 Varshaphala 


Its lord is Saturn posited in the 6m, is aspecting 12 
house of foreign country and is aspecting its own 3% house 
where Saham is located. This doctor went to USA on a 
very big project in 2002 at a very high salary. 

18. Jalapathna or 
Sea Voyage Day Birth Cancer 15° - Saturn + Asd 
Night Birth Saturn- Cancer 15°+ Asd 


Ven 

8 
Birth Chart 
19.12.1969 


(la Ai 


Annual Horoscope 2001, Na 12. 2001. 8.08 AM 
Mon 


Jal Sat Rah 
Mar 
Jal 
12 Sahm 
Lag Ke 
Sun wen 
Mer : 


2001 
Asd. 24°:07', Sun 3° 22', Moon 22° 21', Mars 13° ok 
Mer 11° 18’, Jup 18° 29', Ven 27° 03’ Sat 16°21’ 
Rahu 3° 16’. 
Jalapatha Saham: 3s_ 15° 0° 
- Saturn Is 16° 21" 
+ Asd. 8s 24° 07' 


Sahams 161 


= 10s 22° 46! 
Add 1 sign, as Asd. is not between Saturn and Cancer 

= ls 22° 46' 
The Jalapatha Sahara is in sign Pisces 4th house. 
Its lord is Jupiter in the 7th house of residence in 
foreign country under Rahu Ketu axis. It is aspected 
by 9th lord of travel Sun and 10m lord Mercury of 
profession with whom it is having ithasala. Mars 
lord of 12 is having ithasala with Mercury lord of 7 
husband and lord of 10 profession. She went to join 
her husband in USA in August 2002. As she is herself 
a doctor her professional interest was also promoted. 


19. Artha or Finance 

Day Birth II - Lord of II + Asd 

Same for night and day. 

II means cusp of second house. 

1. Artha Saham of wealth gives riches if associated/ 
aspected by benefics. 

2. The aspect or association of malefics destroys 
wealth. 

3. If associated with both benefic and malefics the 
wealth is lost first and regained later if there is 
ithasala with benefics. 

The aspects should be judged as per rules of annual 
Hbroscope. Friendly aspects even by malefics promote 
the cause ofthe Saham. An inimical aspect even ofa 
benefics involves fear from enemies. 

If strong Mercury is conjoined with Muntha in 
the Ascendant and all benefics aspect Artha Saham 
the person gets hidden wealth. The aspects of 
malefics do not give any wealth. 

20. Vyapara or Business 
Day Birth Mars- Mercury + Asd 
Night Birth same as above 


162 Varshaphala 


21. Vanik or Trade 
Day Birth Moon-Mercury + Asd 
Same for night and day 

22. Shatru or Enemy 


Day Birth Mars - Sat + Asd 

Night Birth Saturn - Mars + Asd 
23. Bandhana or Limitation 

Day Birth Punya - Saturn + Asd 

Night Birth Saturn - Puniya + Asd 
24. Bandak or Imprisonment 

Day Birth Mercury - Moon + Asd 

Night Birth Moon - Mercury + Asd 


1. Imprisonment should not be predicted if Saham 
is associated with benefics or its own lord. 

2. The association / aspect with malefics causes 
imprisonment. 

3. Saham and its lord having Muthasil Yoga with 
malefics causes imprisonment. 

25. Shastra or Scriptures 


Day Birth Jupiter-Satur+Mercury 

Night Birth Saturn-Jupiter+Mercury 
26. Vidya or Learning 

Day Birth Sun - Moon + Asd 


Night Birth Moon - Sun + Asd 
27. Apamritu or Accidental Death 
Day Birth VIII -Mars + Asd 
Night Birth Mars -VIII + Asd 
28. Karma or Profession 
Day Birth Mars- Mercury + Asd 
Night Birth Mercury - Mars + Asd 
29. Bhatri Saham or (brother) 
Jupiter - Saturn + Asd same for day and night 


Sahams 163 


\ 30. Labha Saham (Gains) 


i 


i 
| 


Cusp of 11" house - 11m lord + Asd same for day 
and night. 


\ 31. Daridra Saham (Penury) 


Day Birth PunyaSaham- Mercury+Mer 
For night Mercury - Punya Saham + Mer 
Note :- 


1. 


as 


Ifthe 10"house and the house where karma Saham 
is located are both strong and in ithasala with 
their lord or benefics the person prospers. He gets 
wealth and property. 

If the lords of the two houses are in ithasala 
with malefics there are losses. 


If lords are combust or retrograde all labour is lost. 


There is failure if two lords are joined or associated 
with Saturn. 

If the Rajya Saham and Karma Saham lords are 
in Esrapha yoga with a malefic there is failure. 


. Person goes to foreign country if Moon occupies 7th 


house from Muntha identical with Moon's own 
house or sign of exaltation. If such a Moon is 
aspected by malefics there is: trouble in the journey. 


Fructification of Sahams- Important Considerations 


For Sahams to fructifyfollowing essential conditions 


must be fulfilled. 


5 


2. 


Saham / its lords should not have aspect / 
association with malefics. 

The Lord of the Saham should be strong, 1.e.. it 
should be exalted, be in its own house, associated/ 
aspected by benefics. 

Lord of the Saham should establish contact with 
the ascendant.. 

Lord of the Saham should not be debilitated or 
combust. 


164 Varshaphala 


5. It should not be in 6, 8, or 12 or have relation 
with the lord of 6, 8, or 12. 


6. Lord of the Saham should not be in Ithasal with 
lords of 6, 8 or 12. 

Common Lordship 
If the same planet has lordship over similar 

Sahams in birth and Varshaphala charts, the events 

of the Saham are likely to happen. 

Assessment of Saham 

A Saham is strong and gives good results if 

1. It aspects lagna. 

2. If it is located in a good house, i.e., Kendra and 
trikona. 

2. It should be associated or aspected by benefices. 

4. The lord of Saham should be exalted, situated in 


its own sign, or is in a friend's house, in its own 
navamsa or hudda. 


5. It should have Ithasla with lord of good houses 
only, i.e. lords of kendras, trikonas, 2 and 11. 


6. A Saham becomes strong if it is associated or 
aspected by its own lord. 


Weak Saham 


1. A Saham is weak if it is associated, aspected by 
malefics. 


2. Ifits lord is debilitated, is in 6, 8, and 12 or is 
associated with lords of6, 8, or 12 or has ithasala 
with them. 


3. A Saham having Ithasala with its own eight lord or 
with the 8 lord of annual horoscope gives harmful 
results even if the planet may be benefic. 


4. According to some commentators like Neelkantha 
Sahams which are harmful to the person concerned 
like Roga, Mrityu, Kali and Shatru should not be 


Sahams 165 


strong because they become more harmful. 


5. Lord of Saham weak in Panchvargeeya bala does 
¢ not give good results. 


Note. Saham is a virgin field for research and much 
work has to be done to adjudge their efficacy. However, 
if Sahams are correlated to the dasha / antar dasha 
scheme of the birth chart the results can be quite 
interesting and rewarding. 


Ghapteiex 
Tri-Pataki Chakra 


This special chart establishes a connection of planets 
in the birth chart in relation to ascendant in the annual 
chart. This mainly shows typés of aspect on Moon and 
’ Ascendant and gives a general idea of the events good or 
bad likely to happen in the-current year. 

' HOW TO DRAW THE CHART 

_Keep both the birth chart and annual chart before 
you and proceed as follows 
A 


Step No 1. 

Draw three parallel lines 
horizontally and three 

- vertically as shown. 
Mark the end of these 
lines with alphabets in 
a,b,c, d,e,i,g,h,ij, K 
and 1 in the anti clockwise 


direction. On top of ts 
NXTX)7 


three vertical lines draw 
Tri means three and Pataka f zg ih 


@ 


three small flags as shown. 


Tri-Pataki Chakra 167 


means flags. Join the ends of these lines as shown 
in the diagram. 


PLACEMENT OF PLANETS IN ANNUAL CHART. 


Mark the sign rising (Ascendant) of the Annual Chart 
at flag a. The remaining signs are marked in the 
anti- clock wise direction. In the example horoscope 
the rising sign is Aquarius. Mark the remaining signs 
in order in anticlockwise direction as is done in North 
Indian horoscope and as shown. It will thus be 
observed that eveiy point in the horoscope a, b, c, d, 
etc is influenced by lines from three _ different 
points.This means planets located at any one points 
will be influenced.by planets from three different 
directions. 


VEDHA 


1) 


I 


— 


This concept of influence from three different 
directions is known as Vedha or piercing. The 
benefic aspect is good while the malefic aspect 
is bad. Placement of the Planets on Tri Pataki 
Chakra with Reference to Planets in Birth 
Chart. Keep the Birth Horoscope before you and 
take into account the completed + 1 year or the 
current year. In the example horoscope the 
current year is 58 (57 years + 1 year). 


PLACEMENT OF MOON : DIVISION BY 9. 


Divide By 9: Divide the current year ie 58 by 9 
and obtain the remainder which is 4 in this case. 
Count 4 from the location of Moon in Birth Chart. 
Moon in the birth chart is in Cancer, the 4th from 
itis Libra. Place Moon in Tripatki Chart in Libra or 
sign 7. If the remainder is O, then take it as 9 
i.e. do not make remainder equal to zero. 


PLACEMENT OF SUN, MERCURY, JUPITER, 
VENUS AND SATURN 


Dividing by four :- Divide the current year by 4 and 


get the remainder. Do'nt make the remainder 0 but keep 


168 Varshaphala 


it 4/ In this case dividing 58 by 4 ,we get a remainder 
of 2. Count 2 from the location ofthese planets in the 
birth chart and place the planets in relevant rasis. 

In our example horoscope Sun in the birth horoscope is 
in Scorpio. 2nd from Scorpio is Sagittarius. Therefore, place 
Sun in Sagittarius in Tripatki Chakra. Similarly Mercury 
and Venus in birth chart are in Libra,2nd from Libra is 
Scorpio. Place Mercury and Venus both in Scorpio.In the 
birth horoscope Jupiter is in Sagittarius,second from 
Sagittarius is Capricorn. Place Jupiter in Capricorn (Sign 
10) in Tripatki Chakra Saturn in Birth Chart is in Leo, 
second from Leo is Virgo. Place Saturn in Virgo in Tripatki 
Chakra. 
CID LOCATION OF RAHU, KETU AND MARS 

Dividing by 6 :- Divide the current year by 6 and get 
the remainder.Do’nt make the remainder 0 , keep it 
6 In the example chart dividing 58 by 6 we get a remainder 
of 4.In case of Rahu andJKetu’ counting should be in 
reverse order. Rahu in birth chart is in Gemini. 4th 
from Gemini in the reverse order is Pisces. Place Rahu in 
Pisces in Tripatki Chakra.Ketu in the birth chart is in 
Sagittarius. Fourth from Sagittarius in reverse direction is 
Virgo. Place Ketu in sign 6 in Tripatki chakra. 

Fourth from Mars in birth chart is Sagittarius. 
Keep Mars in sign 9 in Tripatki Chakra. 
Tri Pataki Chakra of J. L. Nehru (1946-1947) 


Lag 
Rahul2 11 10 Jup 


Tri-Pataki Chakra 169 


Read Tripatki Chakra in the light of normal Parashari 
principles and see the vedha on Moon and Lagna. The 
benefic aspects are good, whereas malefic aspects cause 
trouble. 

Main Features :- 

1. In the Tri Pataki Chakra Moon is having Vedha 


2. 


from Rahu, Ketu and Saturn. 

In the annual Horoscope, Saturn is lagna lord 
w ellp oad nn the 6m house of competitions. (Malefics 
like Saturn, Mars, Sun do well in the 6m as here 
they crush all opposition. The opposition in this case 
was the might of British Empire). The Saturn is 
strong in Panchvargeeya Bala being Poorna Prakarrni 
In Dwadasvargeeya bala also Saturn is highly 
auspicious. Moon is also well placed in the royal 
sign Leo whose lord Sun is forctfully placed in the 
10m with directional strength. 

There is Vedha of Rahu also on Moon. Rahu is 
exalted in the annual chart and is in a benefic 
rasi of Yoga Karka Venus in the 4m house of 
masses and is aspecting the 10m house. No wonder 
Nehru had such a massive public popularity and 
mass appeal. 

There is also vedha of two benefics Mercury and 
Venus on Lagna Venus is yogakarka for his 
horoscope. These are the factors that made Nehru 
handsome and a great humanitarian. 


Vedha on Moon by various planets can be ascribed as 


1 


followes :- 

Sun :- Lack of confidence ill fame, false 
pride, defective eyesight, trouble to father, 
disappointments, failures etc. 

Mars :- Quarrels, strife, voilence, lawlessness, 
lack of energy, accidents. Fear from enemies, 
fear from weapons, blood related problems. 


3 Mercury :- Weak, petty minded, mental tensions 


and worries, fear from enemies. 


170 


Varshaphala 


Jupiter :- Generous, Social uplift, good company, 
religious, worship of gods, children, promotion 
in service. 


Venus :- Artistic, refined, cultured, happy, 
comforts, sexual vitality, success, gain of wealth, 
famous and defeat of enemies. 


Saturn :- mean, selfish, tyrant, diseases, 
poverty, sepration, windy ailments, bondage, 
sexual perversion, Cruel minded. 


Rahu :- Suffering, poor, foolish, immoral 
diseases, loss of honour. 


Ketu :- Instability, psychic, wandeing nature, 
gastric trouble, sorrow. 


Chapter-XI 
Some Rules of Prediction 


Note : For predicting death or Arishta, the longevity 


and dasha in birth chart should be seen first. 


i 


The planets, which are strong in the birth chart but 
weak in the annual horoscope, give good results in the 
beginning of the year and bad results during end of the 
year. The planets of equal strength give uniform results. 


Ifthe Moon is debilitated and the benefics Mercury, 


Jupiter and Venus are combust person is separated 
from family and suffers losses, sickness etc. 


If the Tri rasi lord is debilitated and is aspected by 
malefics there is failure of all kinds. If the Muntha lord 
and the year lord are posited in enemy signs and are 
combust may lead to sickness and miseries. 


The placement of Moon in 4, 6, 7, 8 and 12 houses is 
not good and may even cause death. Ifit has aspect of 
Mars there might be fire or wound by weapons. Aspect 
of Saturn, Rahu or Ketu causes fear from enemies 
and diseases. The aspect of Sun gives poverty. It is 
the aspect of Jupiter that brings good fortune. 


In the progressed chart if the 8" lord occupies the 
lagna or the lagna lord goes to the 8m house and is 
aspected by Mars or if Mercury and Jupiter are 
combust , the person meets with some disaster 
including cuts from weapons. 

If the Muntha lord and lagna lord in the progressed 
chart are combust and are aspected by Saturn 
person suffers from mental agonies and has fear 
of the unknown. There might be troubles to wife 
and loss of wealth. 


172 Varshaphala 


7. Ifthe malefic planets are strong and benefic weak or in 
the 6 or.8 the native suffers from mental agony. 


8. If Venus is in the sign of debilitation and Jupiter 
is in the navamsa of enemy there is suffering all 
the year round. If the lagna lord of the progressed 
horoscope is in 8m there may even be death. 


9. The lords of two and ninth should not be weak. 
This causes loss of wealth. 


10. Moon with Saturn in the 12m house in the progressed 
chart while benefics are in the 6m house lead to loss of 
wealth. If there is Esrapha yoga with malefics death 
may occur. Aspect of benefics mitigates the evil effects. 


COMBINATIONS FOR DISEASES / DEATH 


1. If the lagna lord combines with the 8m lord and Muntha 
lord in houses 4, 8 or 12 the person meets with death 
due to disease represented by the planets concerned. 


2. Ifthe lord of birth lagna is associated with malefics 
and there is Esrapha yoga of the malefics with the 
year lord there may be chances of death. This may 
happen inspite of Kamboola yoga with malefics. 


3. There may be trouble if the lagna in the progressed 
chart is 8m from birth lagna. If lagna of the 
progressed chart is also aspected by malefics there 
might even be death. 


4. Ifthe 8m lord of the birth horoscope is a malefic planet 
and occupies the lagna in the progressed chart there 
can be mental pain and diseases to the native. The 
death can also occur if Moon and the year lord are 
weak in Panchvargeeya balas or lord of the moon sign 
and lagna lord in the progressed horoscope are weak 
death may be the result. 


5. If the year lord and the lagna lord in the progressed 
chart are both conjoined with the malefics and occupy 
any of the houses 4, 6m, 8m and 12m the person 
concerned gets mental agonies and sickness. 
Death may occur if the year lord and lagna lord are 


Some Rules of Prediction 172 


also weak or combust and have no effect of benefics. 

6. If, lagna lord of the birth horoscope, lagna lord of the 
progressed horoscope and Muntha, all are placed 
together in the houses 12, 4, 8 or 6 death may occur. 

7. A combust Moon (Moon within 15 degrees of Sun) 
occupying 4, 6, 8 and 12 houses causes diseases 
of wind, bile and phlegm. If such a Moon has aspect 
of Jupiter the results may be auspicious. 

8. If Muntha is associated with malefics and is 
aspected by Saturn there is mental unrest. There 
may even be death if Muntha is in 4, 6, 7 or 8 or 
12 of the birth chart and this sign happens to be 
the 8m house of the birth chart death may occur. 

COMBINATIONS FOR IMPRISONMENT 
If there are planets in direct motion in the 12m house 

and retrograde planets in the 2na they portend evil. And If 

there are planets in the 2nd and 12m from the year lord 
and in 2 and 12 from lagna lords of the birth and 
progressed horoscope imprisonment may occur. 

AUSPICIOUS RESULTS AND NEUTRALIZATION OF 

HARMFUL ASPECTS 

1. A strong lagna lord as per Pancha Vargeeya bala 
aspected by benefics is the best antidote for harmful 
results of other combinations in the annual birth 
chart. This is especially so if it occupies houses 1, 4, 
10, 5 or 9. In that case it bestows comforts and wealth. 

2. Jupiter located in a kendra or trikona aspected 
by benefics, without malefic affliction washes away 
the affliction caused by Moon, Muntha or lagna. 
This combination bestows wealth and happiness. 

3. Ifthe 4" house of the chart is occupied by or aspected 
by its own lord it is auspicious. If Jupiter as lord of 
birth lagna occupies the lagna, 2na 3% or 4" house in 
the annual house the results are auspicious. 

4. If Jupiter and the 7® lord are posited in the lagna 
duly aspected by benefics and friendly planets and 
not by malefics all evils are destroyed and one 
gets kingly comforts during appropriate dasha. 


174 


10. 


11. 


ibe 


ie 


Varshaphala 


If the 9m lord and 2na lord are strong in 
Panchvargeeya bala and occupy lagna without any 
malefic aspect all harmful effects of malefic 
combinations are destroyed and person gets 
widespread fame. 


Benefics in kendra trikona and malefics in 3, 6 
and 11 give prosperity and fame. 


Muntha lords, lord of lagnas of progressed and 
birth horoscope all strong and occupy kendra, 
trikona or 2 or 11 one gets wealth and comfort. 


Saturn, Venus and Jupiter strong and exalted as 
also in ithasala with benefics one get wealth from 
foreigners or lower rung of society. In ithasala 
with benefics these planets give much wealth. 
With strong Mars in the 2nd one gets unexpected 
wealth. 


If Sun Jupiter and Venus are in mutual ithasala 
the native gets glory, power wealth and comforts. 
If Sun and Mars are in any of the house 3, 6 and 
11 from Muntha all evils of Muntha are washed 
away and results are auspicious. 


If Moon, Mercury and Venus are in there own huddas 
and evil planets occupy 3 and 11 houses one gets 
wealth, comforts and glory. As a result of one's own 
effort. 


Mercury and Moon in Musarifa yoga with each other 
and Jupiter in the 3ra house is very auspicious. This 
combination gives glory and wealth. 


If Mars happens to be the year lord and occupies 
the sign of his friend and is in Kamboola yoga 
with planets in their own sign or sign of exaltation, 
one gets wealth, lands, houses and fame. 


The yoga karka planets in the birth chart 
and progressed chart should be judged for 
Panchvargeeya strength and possibilities of Raj 
yogas seen. 


Some Rules of Prediction 175 


14. Ifthe year lord, Muntha lord and lagna lord of the 
progressed chart are conjoined with malefics or 
are combust or debilitated and benefics are weak 
the auspicious result may not fructify. 


Dwi - Janama Year or The Year of Second Birth 


When the birth lagna becomes same or recurs 
in the annual Horoscope, it is called as Dwi- Janama 
or Dwi-Janama Year .It is believed that such a year is 
normally adverse and leads to sickness, loss and 
reverses in life even death. However while giving 
predictions only on the basis of Dwi - Janama one 
should be cautious. If the dasha running in the birth 
horoscope is good and there are good yogas in the 
horoscope such prediction should not be given. 


The year may prove to be bad if the longitude of 
lagna in the birth chart is same as in the annual 
horoscope. This would still become adverse if Birth 
nakshatra (nakshatra in which Moon is located at 
birth) also recurs in the annual horoscope. 

The major protective forces are lagna lord, Jupiter 
and Moon. They should not be weak in the birth 
horoscope. Their position in 6, 8 and 12 houses is 
especially bad. 

If lord of the year and Muntha lord is/also strong 
they provide big protective influence. ' 

The strength of other benefics is also important. 


Chapter-XII 
Result ofDashas of 
Ascendant and Planets 


DASHA OF ASCENDANT : 

Strong Ascendant bestows sound health, honour 
and gains from the state or employees in its dasa. 

Ascendant of Medium Strength: The results will 
be average. There might be small gains only. There 
could be reverses and mental tensions. 

Weak Ascendant: entails mental tension, 
discomfort, loss of wealth and prestige. There might 
be lot of efforts without corresponding good results. 

The dasha of weak ascendant gives little gains, 
much expenditure , physical ailments , quarrels etc. 

The results should be judged from the strength of 
the lord as also nature of ascendant and drekkan rising. 
i) Asendant in movable rasi and first drekkan gives good 

results, in the 2nd moderate and in third worst. 

il) In fixed signs , 1st drekkan results are undesirable, in 
second they are good and in third they are of a 
mixed nature. 

ii) In dual signs the results are inauspicious in first 
drekkan, in second medium and in third good results. 
If the lagna is aspected by its own lord or benefics 

even evil results turn beneficial. Good results prove to be 

excellent. 

Lagna lord associated with malefics gives bad 
results. 


DASHA OF SUN 


Strong Sun : health, wealth , honour, fame , religious 
acts and respect all round. 


Result ofDashas of Ascendant and Planets 177 


Sun of Medium Strength: Above results get 
modified. Results are average depending upon the 
status and conditions in life. 


Weak Sun : strife, quarrels , misunderstanding , 
ailments due to bile and enemies giving trouble. Fear 
from state action, fear from enemies. Loss of wealth, 
controversy with family members and misunderstanding. 


Sun in 3, 6, 10 and 11 is good. Even weak Sun 
here gives half good results. Sun in medium strength 
gives good results. A strong Sun gives excellent results. 
DASHA OF MOON: 

Strong Moon : One wears good clothes and robes 
(white clothes in classical texts), pearls, domains, 
landed property , pleasures of bed , fame and honour. 

Moon with little strength : phlegmatic ailments, 
friends turn foes . Loss of money , birth of female 
child and little comforts. 

Weak Moon: fear complex , hostility of family 
members and friends, tasteless food. 

Moon is good in all houses except 6, 8 and 12. A 
full Moon becomes very auspicious. Even weak Moon 
gives half results. Moon with moderate strength gives 
almost full results. Full Moon gives very auspicious 
results. 


In houses 6, 8 or 12 results are not so auspicious. 
DASHA OF MARS : 
Strong : Victory over enemies , leadership, courage. 


Medium Strength : leadeship, power, prestige, 
health and wealth. 

Little Strength : Trouble of bile, high fever, fear 
of enemy, imprisonment. 

Weak - quarrels, controversies , thefts, problem 
of blood, skin eruptions , loss of wealth to strangers. 


Even Weak Mars gives good results in 3, 6 and 
11. Very strong Mars gives exceedingly good results. 


178 Varshaphala 


DASHA OF MERCURY : 


Strong: famous for mathematics, workmanship. 
Those in high posts may become ambassadors. 


Moderate Strength : Favours of friends , poetry 
writing, workmanship. Popular with relatives. 


Little Strength : Afflicted or confused mind, fear of 
being killed or imprisoned , loss of money kept in safe 
or under ground. Change of place and go to far off 
places, wind and phlegm ailments. 


In 6, 8 and 12 even a weak Mercury is not so bad 
here to be afrraid of. A weak Mercury is only half 
inauspicious. Mercury with little strength gives good 
results. A very strong Mercury gives excellent results. 


DASHA OF JUPITER : 


Strong : wealth, honour and fame. Authorities are 
favourable, enemies are vanquished. Friends respect 
him, health improves. 

Moderate : Associated with friends in authority, 
success without much hard work. Comfortable and 
gets respect. 


Little Strength: Illness, poverty, fear from enemies, 
ear problems, loss of wealth. Inclined to renunciation 
as his efforts do not get good results. 

Weak : Sorrow, loss of wealth, disobedience from 
wife and children. Irreligious, even own people turn 
against him. 

Being a benfic planet does not give bad results if very 
weak in houses other than 6, 8 and 12.Bad results are 
modified according to strength. Of medium strength gives 
good results and very strong gives better results. 


DASHA OF VENUS : 
Strong : Health, name and fame. 


Medium Strength : friends, family members, 
good food, dresses. 


Result ofDashas of Ascendant and Planets 179 


Weak : Loss of money, wealth, knowledge, sickness 
to wife. 

The evil effects are somewhat moderated in 
houses other than 6, 8 and 12 as Venus is basically 
a great benefic. 

DASHA OF SATURN : 

Strong : Land, new houses, agriculture, works 
of public interest . Favours from government and 
masses. 

Medium Strength : gains in trade in animals, birds, 
eggs. Infatuation for old ladies and worry for security. 

Little Strength : fear from enemies and thieves, 
poverty, discord, ill health. 

Weak : Quarrels, theft, poverty, sickness even 
death. 

Even weak Saturn gives moderate results in 
houses 3, 6 and 11. 


Chapter-XIII 
Annual Horoscope 
House-wise Results 


To interpret a chart it should be kept in view 
that basic principles of Astrology as propounded by 
Prashara cannot be overlooked. These have to be 
supplemented in the light of other rules of Tajika as 
propounded by Neelkantha and others. 


GENERAL 


1. The houses that are aspected by their own lords 
or by the benefic planets get strengthened . 


2. The houses aspected or posited by malefic planets 
get destroyed. 


3. The houses aspected or posited by both benefics 
and malefics give mixed results. 


4. The lord of the house, if strong in Panchvargeeya 
bala furthers the cause of the house. 


5. The lord of the house weak, combust or debilitated 
brings evil to the house concerned. 


6. There are five contenders( Pancha Adhikaris) for the 
post of Lord of the Year. Lagna lord in the birth 
horoscope, lagna lord in the annual horoscope, 
Muntha lord, Lord of Tri rasi and the day or night lord. 
These planets are known as planets in dignity. They 
should be strong in the annual horoscope to be able to 
give good results. 


7. There may be wealth giving yogas in the birth 
horoscope but if one of the planets forming such a yoga 
becomes weak and lord of second house or wealth 
also has no strength there will be loss of wealth instead 
of accumulation of it. The persons to whom he has 
advanced loans may refuse to pay back or his money 


10. 


11. 


2) 


13: 


14. 


Annual Horoscope House-wise Results 181 


may be misappropriated. 


In some cases planets strong in birth chart become 
weak in the annual horoscope . In that case they 
fail to deliver results promised in the birth chart. 


If Jupiter as lord of year is afflicted by malefics 
and occupies lagna in the annual chart there is 
loss of wealth as well danger of state action. 

If Jupiter is one of the Panchadhikaris and is in the 7th 
house of the annual chart, one gains in business. 

If strong Mercury is conjoined with Muntha in the 
Ascendant and all benefics aspect/conjoin Artha 
Saham or its lord the person gets hidden wealth. 
The aspects of malefics do not give any wealth. 
If the birth of annual horoscope is during the 
day, the combination of Sun and Mars produces 
fear from the government. 

If Sun in the birth chart has Musarifa yoga with 
Venus and occupies any kendra as one of the five 
dignitaries there is fear from government and 
sickness. 

Mercury in the sign of Mars in the birth horoscope 
aspected by Mars in the annual horoscope gives 
diseases relating to infection of blood. If Mercury 
is combust and 1s afflicted by malefics it causes 
imprisonment and death in foreign land. 


RESULTS OF THE FIRST HOUSE: 


The first house of the horoscope represents health, 


personality, wealth and general happiness. 


If the lagna lord has great Pancha Vargeeya strength, 


the person will have much wealth, his health would be 
good and year on the whole will be smooth and enjoyable. 


The first house aspected by benefics brings good 


prestige, health, happiness and wealth. 


Aspected by malefics gives bad reputation and makes 


one a controversial figure. He is robbed by crooks and 
suffers miseries. There is loss of wealth also. 


182 Varshaphala 


In case of weak lord there will always be trouble of 
some kind. 


If Sun(Sun is karka for 1st house or health in 
Parashari system) is one of the Pancha adhikaris (see 
rule 6 above) and is strong, the person will enjoy good 
health and general prosperity. 


Strong lagna lord of birth, lagna lord in the progressed 
chart, 8 lord, year lord, Muntha lord aspect houses other 
than 6, 8and 12 and strongassure good result throughout 
the year. The native gets happiness, wealth and glory 
throughout the year. If these planets are weak and occupy 
6, 8 or 12 houses they give much trouble and there is fear 
of thieves. If they are aspected by benefics they give good 
results. 


In some cases planets are very strong in birth chart 
but become weak in the annual horoscope. This 
indicates that whatever gains made earlier would be 
lost. It means they will spoil results of the houses 
they rule in the birth chart. 


Rule: Planets weak in the progressed chart spoil 
results of the houses ruled by them in the birth chart. 


Ifthe Sun be weak the person will have skin trouble 
or eye problem. He will lose his courage and would 
be humiliated. 


If Moon is one of the Pancha adhikaris and is weak 
person will have eye trouble and will lose money. He 
has no peace of mind and will have bad health. 

If Mars is one of the contestants and weak then one 
has no initiative, is afraid and his sexual life is miserable. 

With weak Mercury in similar circumstances the 
person is lustful and suffers from loss of prosperity. 

With weak Jupiter there are no noble deeds and 
there is loss of reputation and wealth. 

Venus in a similar position destroys married life. 
There are no comforts and luxuries and relations 
with opposite sex are unhappy. 


Annual Horoscope House-wise Results 183 


Weak Saturn spoils relations with servants and 


gives windy / digestive problems. 
T- HOUSE AND WEALTH 


1. 


10. 


In the birth chart there may be wealth giving yogas, 
but ifin the progressed horoscope any one of these 
planets forrning yoga becomes weak there may be 
loss of wealth and the person concerned may not 
be able to recover his money. 


Jupiter as second lord of the birth chart posited in 
the second house of the progressed chart having 
ithasala with lagna lord of the progressed chart 
gives much wealth. Wealth is lost if Jupiter is 
making Esrapha yoga with any other malefic. 


There will be unexpected gains if Jupiter aspects 
second house in the birth chart and becomes 
strong lord of the year of the annual horoscope. 
Strong Jupiter occupying same house in the 
progressed chart of which he was the lord in the 
birth chart and having ithasal with lord of lagna 
gives result of such house in abundance. 


Jupiter as lord ofthe year and very strong bestows 
result of the house he aspects in the birth chart. 


Mercury as 6 lord in the birth chart occupying 6m 
house of the annual horoscope does not give big 
gain of money. 


If Jupiter aspected by malefics in progressed chart 
occupies 8 or 2nq in the same chart there is loss of 
wealth. 


Jupiter aspected by benefics or conjoined with them 
occupying 2na house gives money and status. Ifsuch a 
Jupiter aspects Muntha also there is gain of power. 
Venus in similar circumstances as lord of the year 
occupying 2nq house and aspected by benefics gives 
much wealth. But if there is Esrapha Yoga between 
lagna lord and second lord there is loss of wealth. 


Strong Mercury as lord of the year occupying 2na 
house gives money by speaking or from literary 


184 


11. 


2: 


Ly 


14. 


15. 


Varshaphala 


activities. If birth chart is occupied by benefics 
and same planets are in 2nd house same results 
as above are there. 

There is special gain of wealth, authority and power 
if Artha Saham is in the second house and is 
aspected by benefics. If Artha Saham and 2na lord 
have friendly aspects from benefices money 
comes easily. If aspected in an inimical way 
wealth comes after great effort. 

Wealth comes easily if there is ithasala of lagna 
lord and second lord. With Esphara yoga there is 
loss of wealth and money is earned through 
undesirable means. One also leads life of fear. 
If the sign occupied by Jupiter in the birth chart 
happens to be lagna in the annual chart aspected 
by its lord and other benefics there is health, 
wealth and happiness. 

If Sun is in the lagna in the birth chart and happens to 
be in 2nd house in the annual chart there is wealth 
and life of comforts. If Saturn is there, there is loss of 
wealth. If Saturn is in the second with Jupiter one 
gets prosperity and comforts from brothers. 


If Jupiter is second lord in the birth chart and 
becomes lord of year it gives good results. In lagna 
there is good health and prosperity. In second there is 
wealth. In third benefit from brothers, In fourth gain 
from parents, agriculture and friends. In the 5mn 
comfort from children. In 6h loss of wealth because of 
enemies. In 7th comfort from wife. In eight death for 
money. In 9h money by travelling. In 10m and 11" 
gains from rulers and royal family respectively. In 12 
th expenses on charitable purposes. 


THIRD HOUSE 


Strong Sun or Venus as lord of the year without 


any ill aspect or conjunction of malefics gives comforts 
from brothers.If they are weak there are quarrels with 
brothers. 


Annual Horoscope House-wise Results 185 


There is disharmony and dispute among brothers if 


1. 


2: 


oe 


10. 


11. 


12 


13; 


Third lord is also the year lord and is combust or 
has malefic aspect. 

The Sun or Venus as lord of the year is weak, 
eclipsed or combust. 

Weak Jupiter is in the third house in the annual 
chart. 

If there is Esphara yoga between third lord and 
year lord, there is disease and conflict with coborn. 
There is quarrel between the brothers if third 
house is occupied by Moon and Mars but not 
aspected by Jupiter. 

Brothers are helped by the native if third lord having 
any of the five dignitaries occupies the third house 
and has ithasal with lagna lord and year lord. 

There are inauspicious results for the brothers if 
the third lord is in Esrapha yoga with malefics. 
If third lord is in the third house in Saturn or 
Mars sign it may cause illness to brothers. 
Mercury sign in the third house and occupied by 
Mars gives sickness to brothers. 

Brothers are helpful if Mars occupies any of the signs 
of Saturn or Mercury is in any of the signs ruled by 
Mars in the third is aspected or conjoined with 
benefics. 

If Mercury and Venus as the lords of birth lagna 
and annual lagna are strong occupying the third 
house and Jupiter is also strong the person's 
brothers are well settled. 

The occupation of third house by malefics causes 
unhappiness to brothers. 

The brothers are in trouble if Bharatra Saham' is 
associated with malefics and not aspected by 
benefics or its own lord. Same results follow if the lord 
of Bhratra Saham and of third house are eclipsed and 
occupy house 6,8 or 12.Brothers fight if lagna lord is 


186 Varshaphala 


posited in the house 7m to the third. The same 
results follow if the year lord is in this position. 

FOURTH HOUSE : 

1. Weak Mars as the year lord is inauspicious. There 
is enmity with parents and relatives. 

2. Ifthe Sun associated or aspected by malefics occupies 
the 4m house of the annual horoscope there is trouble 
to father . Moon in similar position causes trouble to 
mother. Sun and Moon associated and aspected by 
malefics occupy the 4 house is an indication of troubles 
to both parents. If under such circumstances Sun and 
Saturn are together in the birth chart there is enmity 
and discord with father. 

3. The son becomes enemy of mother if Moon and 
Saturn conjoin in any sign. 

4. The 4m lord in the 4m house gives lovable son to parents. 

5. A strong 4m lord having ithasala with lagna lord 
bestows parental comforts. 

6. The parents are happy if there is ithasala of the 
Mata and Pita Saham' with lagna lord or Sahams 
are in the 4m house. 

INAUSPICIOUS COMBINATIONS FOR PARENTS. 

1. If the 4m lord is weak in birth as well as annual 
horoscope. 

2. If Mata Saham and Pita Saham are conjoined with 
malefics or aspected by them and fall in the 4 house 
from Muntha death of parents may be predictd. 

3. Ifthe two Sahams Mata and Pita are weak or within 
orb of Sun, death of parents may take place. 

4. Saturn and Mars combination in the 4m house 
or with 4h lord gives worry to parents. 

5. Same results follow if Mata and Pita Sahams' are 
in ithasala with malefics. 

6. Parents are always in fear if there is Esrapha 
yoga of enemy planets with Mata and Pita Saham 
as also ithasala with 8m lord. 


Annual Horoscope House-wise Results 187 


FIFTH HOUSE ( HOUSE OF CHILDREN) 
Person gets good and worthy children if, 


1. 
2s 


Se 


Jupiter as the year lord occupies the 5* or 11" house. 

Similar results happen if Sun, Mars, Mercury or 

Venus happen to be year lord and are in 5 or 11. 

"Person gets happiness from children if, 

i) Fifth house is strong 

iil) There is strong Putra Saham in the 5m house. 

it) Mercury along with Mars occupying 5th or 11 house 
in benefic signs and aspected by benefics. If Mercury 
is weak there may be troubles to son. 

iv) Ifthe sign occupied by Jupiter in the birth chart 
happens to be the 5m house of the annual chart 
and strong, the son gives comfort to parents. 


BIRTH OF A SON 


1. 


Di 


If Mercury or Mars as the year lord occupy the 5u 
house the birth of son may be anticipated. 

If the sign occupied by Jupiter in the birth chart 
happens to be the lagna in the annual chart the 
person gets a son. This is also so with Mercury and 
Venus signs. If Mars or Saturn or birth sign falls in 
first or 5* in annual chart same results follow. 

The person gets a son ifthe Punya Saham aspected 
by benefics fall in the 5® house. 

A son is born if lagna lord and 5m lord are strong 


. and occupy the 5m house. 


If Moon, Venus or Jupiter occupy the 5m house 
identical with their own houses or signs of 
exaltation. 

If Venus as 5® lord of the birth chart occupies the 
5m house in the annual chart and is in ithasala 
with lagna lord a son is born. 


TROUBLE TO CHILDREN 


[ 


Retrograde Mars in the 5m house leads to abortion 
or death of a son. 


188 Varshaphala 


2. Ifthe sign occupied by Saturn at birth happens to 
be 5: house of the annual chart and is aspected 
by malefics there is trouble to son. 


SIXTH HOUSE 


1. If lagna lord and the year lord are both weak 
and occupy any of the signs 6, 8, or 12 the loss 
is according to nature of sign. A quadruped sign 
means loss of animals (cars and transport? ) and 
biped sign indicates loss of persons dependent 
on the native including servant. 

2. Venus weak and lord of year occupying 6 house 
gives loss as per nature of sign above. 


3. If Sun as the year lord afflicted by malefics 
occupies a quadruped sign and is placed in 6, 8 or 
12: house there is trouble from servants. 


4. Ifstrong Moon as the year lord occupies any of the 
houses 6 or 12 there is expenditure on development 
of land, digging wells and planting trees. 

5. Retrograde Saturn as the year lord and afflicted by 
malefics in the 6 house gives diseases, sustained 
illness due to wind like rheurnatisrn, stomach ache etc. 

6. Retrograde Jupiter in the 6::in the same position 
with no Kambool yoga with Moon gives wind troubles 
and diseases caused by liver like anaemia etc. 

7. Retrograde Mars in this position is the cause of 
blood disorder. Sun gives bile ailments. 

8. Iflagna lord of the birth chart happens to be a 
malefic and is having inimical aspect of the year 
lord there is illness. If the same lagna lord is with 
malefics death may even occur. 


9. Ifsign occupied by Saturn in the birth chart happens 
to be ascendant in the annual chart troubles are 
excessive like bile, dryness . Conjoined with malefics 
may even give death.Ifin above circumstances Saturn 
aspects this sign there is TB. Afflicted Saturn even 
can give death. 


10. 


11. 


12. 


LS; 
. give rheumatic pain. 
14. 


15. 


16. 


Annual Horoscope  House-wise Results 189 


If sign occupied by Mars becomes the lagna of the 
annual chart having an mimical aspect of Mars native 
suffers from blood infection and fear from fire. 

There might be illness if the year lord / and the lagna 
lord in the annual chart have ithasal with the 6m lord. 
Venereal diseases occur if Venus is in 6,8 or 12 
in the annual chart in the sign of Sun and Roga 
Saham with malefics is in the 6m. 

Muntha in 4 or 7 with inimical aspect of Saturn 


Muntha aspected by malefics is also not good 
for health in above conditions. 

If lagna lord of the birth chart and the Muntha 
lord are together in the 6m and are weak and 
aspected by malefics or conjoined with them native 
suffers from diseases. 

Muntha lord, Muntha lagna and lagna lord afflicted 
give acute diseases if they are in ‘Pap Kartari yoga’. 


SEVENTH HOUSE (HOUSE OF MARRIAGE) 


1. 


25 


a 


Strong Venus as the year lord in 7th gives happiness 
from wife or marriage. 

If there is aspect of Jupiter on such a Venus there is 
much happiness in marriage and early birth of a child. 
Mars holding one of the five dignitaries post 
aspecting Venus gives much mutual love 

Venus as lord of year occupying 7m house aspected 
by Mercury gives a secret love with a girl other 
than his wife much younger in age. 

Venus as above aspected by Saturn gives extra 
marital relations with a woman older to the person 
concerned . 

Strong lagna lord in the birth chart occupying 
7th house of the annual chart gives a loving and 
charming wife and is source of comfort. 

If the sign occupied by Venus in the birth chart 
happens to be the 7m house of the annual chart 


190 


es 


13. 


14. 


Varshaphala 


and Venus happens to be the year lord there are 
chances of marriage. 

Ithasal between lagna lord and 7* lord give marriage also. 
Muntha is Yogkarka for marriage if it occupies 
any houses of any of 5 Adhikaris and is aspected 
by Jupiter. 


. There is marriage if Mars as the year lord is 


aspected by Venus. Same results follow if Venus 
as year lord is aspected by Mars. 


. Marriage takes place if Saham for wife is aspected 


by Mars or Venus. 

Vivah Saham aspected by its lord and Venus also 
gives marriage. 

If the 7m lord of the birth horoscope becomes Vivah 
Saham lord, or 7th lord from birth chart and Muntha 
lord and the year lord occupy 10m or 7m, there is 
marriage. 

Saturn in the 7m causes controversies and humiliation. 


HAPPY MARRIED LIFE 


1. 


If Venus as 7th lord in the birth horoscope is strong 
in the annual chart and occupies the 7m house 
and is also in Ithasala with lagna lord there is 
indication of happy marriage. 


Mars in the signs occupied by Venus in the birth 
chart and holding strength gives a joyful sexual life. 
The 7m lord associated with Venus as the year 
lord gives much sexual pleasure from wife. 
There is much pleasure and comforts from wife 
if Jupiter occupies the signs occupied by Venus in 
the birth chart and that sign becomes a kendra or 
trikona of the annual chart. Same rule appUes to 
lagna hudda lord or lord of Vivah Saham instead 
of Jupiter. 


DISCORDS IN MARRIAGE 


1. 


There is trouble to the wife if the Vivah Saham lord 
and the 7m lord are combust or afflicted by malefics. 


Annual Horoscope  House-wise Results 191 


Weak Moon in the signs of Venus in the annual 
chart gives premature ejaculation and there is 
not much sexual pleasure. 

Sun if any of the 5 adhikaris gives eagerness to 
marry who becomes source of anxiety. 

Muntha in the 7m with Sun and Mars gives quarrels 
and troubles from wife and children. There are more 
troubles if Muntha is aspected by malefics. 


EIGHTH HOUSE 


1 


If lagna lord and the year lord and year lord are both 
weak and occupy any of the signs 6, 8, or 12 the loss is 
according to nature of sign. A quadruped sign means 
loss of animals (cars and transport? ) and biped sign 
indicates loss of persons dependent on the native 
including servant. 

Mars as the year lord weak and afflicted by malefics 
causes wound and injuries by iron. In the fiery signs 
there is danger from fire. Same Mars in the biped 
signs as the weak year lord afflicted by malefics is the 
cause of death at the hands of cruel persons. 

If the birth lagna lord, the year lord and Muntha 
lord are all in ithasal with the 8® lord there is fear of 
death . This should be checked with dashas operative. 
Malefic dashas are bad. 

If Jupiter afflicted by malefics is in the 8m and 
Mars is in the lagna native has fits and epilepsy. 
If Mars and Moon are in the ascendant and afflicted, 
Jupiter is in the 8m there may be physical disability. 
If there are malefics in the angular house in the birth 
chart and they ocupy lagna in the annual chart there 
is sickness. 

There is fear of death if Mars and Lord of the 
year are in the 8m and Moon is in 6, 8 or 12. 
Sun, Mars and Saturn in the 8m or 10m may cause 
a vehicular accident. Sun and Mars may cause 
fear of fall from vehicle. 


192 Varshaphala 


9. 8 lord and lagna lord in 8m afflicted cause fear of 
death. 

10. Fear of injury from sword if Mars is in 8m identical 
with signs Arie, Leo, Taurus or Sagittarius. 

11. Jupiter in the 2nd or or 8m as the year lord causes 
loss of wealth if afflicted by malefics. 

NINTH HOUSE (HOUSE OF FORTUNE ) - BHAGYA 

1. Mars as the strong year lord in 3" or 9m means journey 
will be benefic and its results will be lasting. 

2. Sun as the year lord in houses 3 or 9 having 
Kamboola Yoga assure happy journey. 

3. Venus as the year lord gives happy journey if in 
the ninth and is not combust or retrograde. 

4. Mercury as the year lord in 3 or 9m gives journey for 
religious purpose. If it is weak journey is not auspicious. 

5. Strong Jupiter as the lord of the year in 3% or 9n 
house gives pilgrimage If afflicted, journey could 
be inauspicious. 

6. If the year lord has ithasal with the 9m lord the 
journey is useful. 

7. There is unexpected journey if 9m lord has ithasala 
with lagna lord or has ithasal with the year lord. Same 
results follow if Muntha lord has ithasal with 9t lord. 

TENTH HOUSE 

1. Strong year lord occupying 10“house indicate gain 
of wealth, prestige and power. 

2. Strong year lord in any of kendras except 10“house 
gives transfers and family comforts. 

3. Sun as strong year lord in the 11" gives friendship 
with persons in authority and in the 4th gives position 
previously held by him. If the sign occupied by the Sun 
in birth horoscope becomes lagna of the Varsha 
horoscope or 10m house is occupied by Muntha there 
is promotion in service. If under same circumstances 
Sun is debilitated and afflicted there is fear of 
imprisonment or even death. 


Annual Horoscope  House-wise Results 193 


4. Ifthe 10 House of Annual horoscope is Leo sign 
arid Sun is located there one gets benefited by 
the authority. 

Strong Moon occupying sign occupied by Mars in 
the birth chart indicates occupation at another place 
which is beneficial. 

5. Tenth lord in ithasal with lord of lagna and of 
the year lord gives Rajayoga. 

6. Year lord as Rajya Saham in ithasala with Sun 
give a powerful Rajayoga. 

7. If Saturn as the year lord occupies the 10m house in 
great strength ( meaning it is exalted, is in its own 
sign etc) one gets wealth and sound health. Jupiter in 
same position gives wealth, health and reputation. 
Sun gives patronage by the government. Mars in the 
same position gives wealth by hard work. Mercury gives 

* medicine, art, poetry, astrology etc. 

8. A weak Saturn in the 10" causes much misery. 

9. With weak year lord, combust etc and Saturn afflicted 
in birth and annual chart there are failure all round. 

10. Aspect of Saturnon 10m house, 10“lord and Karma 
Saham brings miseries. 

11. Mars as year lord weak in 10m causes fear from 
enemies, thieves and government. 

ELEVENTH HOUSE ( HOUSE OF LABHA - GAINS) 

1. Ithasal between year lord and the lord of eleven 
gives gains in wealth and prestige. 

2. Similar results happen if there is ithasal between 
lagna lord and eleven lord of the annual Horoscope. 

3. If all the planets are strong and occupy the 11% 
. house there is gain of wealth. Weak planets are 
not able to give wealth. 

4. If strong Mercury joins Muntha in the the 
Ascendant and all benefic planets join Artha 
Saham one gets hidden wealth. The aspect of 
malefics deny this wealth. 


194 Varshaphala 


TWELFTH HOUSE 

1. If lagna lord and the year lord are both weak and 
occupy any of the houses 6, 8, or 12 the loss is 
according to nature of sign. A quadruped sign 
means loss of animals (cars and transport? ) and 
biped sign indicates loss of persons dependent on 
the native ‘ including servant. 


2. Moon and Mars conjoined with malefics in the 
12m house cause mental tensions and losses. 


Afflicted Sun in the 12 as the year lord causes eye 
troubles. 


Chapter-XIV 
Result of Planet in 
Different Houses 


(Basedon Parashari System but also applicable 
to Annual Horoscope.) 

These effects are of a general nature. The planet gives 
result because of its signification as well as lordship of a 
particular bhava. The lordship of lagna, 5* house and 9n 
house is always auspicious whereas lordship of 6, 8and 12 
is evil. Parashara calls lordship of 11 also as evil. 


Therefore, results of planets in Bhavas would vary for 
each lagna. Here we give the general results. It should be 
understood that for a horoscope to be strong natural benefics 
Jupiter, Mercury, Venus and Moon (waxing) should be in 
kendras and trikona, and malefics (Sun, Mars, Saturn 
and Rahu/ Ketu) do well in 3, 6 and 11. houses. 

It must always be remembered that all planets 
whether malefic or benefic give good results (in 
any house) if they are exalted or in their own houses. 
Same results occur if planets are Raj Yoga karkas. 

PLANETS IN THE FIRST HOUSE 
SUN 

Strong - Gives a strong moral nature, ambition, and 
love of power and good health. According to Chamatkar 
Chintamani exalted, well aspected or associated in the 
rising sign symbolizes progress and good luck. 

Weak Sun makes one egotist, fond of flattery 
false pride, vain glorious, fond of exaggeration. 
MOON 

One is fond of travel, romantic, imaginative and 
exposed to public life. It is karka for mind and gives 


196 Varshaphala 


mental strength and prosperity. Romantic, idealist, 
traveller, explorer and good writer. 


Weak Moon makes one unstable, unreliable, shifty 
wandering, moody and without aim. 


MARS, 


Strong Mars gives courage, initiative, daring warmth of 
feeling and truthfulness. 


Weak Mars spoils health, makes one rash, causes 
accidents and spoils marriage. 


MERCURY 


Strong Mercury makes one intelligent gives new 
knowledge, honours in sports, profit in business. 
Humorous, quick-witted. With Venus gives talent for music. 


Weak Mercury makes one nervous especially with Rahu, 
shifty, gives mental derangement and skin trouble. 


JUPITER 


Strong : Cheerful, hopeful, generous, just, incapable of 
lasting resentment, social, easy going and sympathetic, 
with magnetic personality. It washes away hundreds of 
sins. 


Ill placed and weak Jupiter leads to exaggeration, 
extravagance, high living and bragging. In the first house it 
makes one self indulgent, fond of food and corpulent. 


VENUS 

Docile, gentle kindly, elegant and artistic. Refined, 
cultured, social and artistic. Makes one interested 
in music, art, dancing, and drama. 

Weak and afflicted, makes one pervert, unclean 
and disorderly. 
SATURN 

Strong : Long-lived, rich, happy, has lands. Exalted 
or in its own house makes Sassa,a Mahapurush Yoga. 

Weak: Melancholy, slow, poor, health not good. Late 
marriage and family life suffers. 


Result of Planet in Different Houses 197 


Rahu : Not good for health and morality but makes 
one brave. 

Gives wealth and foreign travel in benefic rasis. 

Ketu : Unless well placed, it is not a good position. 
Causes fear and" anxiety and troubles in the family. 
PLANETS IN THE 2ND HOUSE 
SUN 

Holds position of trust and is good for moral growth. 
Unless afflicted is not bad for wealth, is charitable, 
haughty and vain.Eyesight bad if afflicted, delay in 
marriage. 

MOON 

Wealthy, handsome, romantic and artistic talent. 
Fond of women. 

Afflicted, dark Moon causes loss of wealth, poverty 
and lack of inherited property. 

Mars: Cruel, angry, ugly quarrels with family, 
meager and untasty food. 

In its own house, exalted or aspected by benefics 
or having good lordship success through enterprise 
legacies and inheritance. 

Mercury: wealthy, large, very intelligent, good 
speech, witty, artist and flair for writing. 

Mercury with evil aspects, with malefics or in their 
signs or in depression education is denied. With 
benefics it gives lot of education. 

JUPITER 

Skill for poetic composition. With short and sweet 
speech, rich, grateful, handsome and intelligent. 

Venus: Amiable nature and has a cheering speech. 
Sharp, religious minded and handsome. Poet, artist, 
soft spoken and wealthy. Likes rich food and drinks, 
renowned, generous and kind. 

SATURN 


Native with the Saturn in the 2nd house is poor and 
is separated from his family. He has a deformed face. 


198 Varshaphala 


Rahu: With ah his wealth lives in poverty. Strife 
and discord with relatives. Hard struggle to gain 
success. Speech defect- nose and throat problems. 


Ketu: Mentally agitated, loss of wealth through 
government penalties. Harsh and critical in speech. 


Happiness and gains if Ketu is in Aries, Gemini 
or Virgo or in benefic sign. 


PLANETS IN THE 3RD HOUSE 


Person with the Sun in the third is healthy, wealthy 
and wise. He is famous, modest, kind and a king. 


The Sun in Gemini, Libra or Sagittarius makes the 
native an author, publisher, professor or lawyer. He is 
fond of home and children and is of active mind. 


MOON 


Strong Moon: Love of knowledge, success in 
intellectual pursuits, changeable disposition - looks after 
brothers if exalted, bold cheerful, fond of education, 
clothes and food. 


Weak Moon: Discord in the family for liaison with 
beautiful women. Suffers from respiratory infections, 
cruel, miser and dull. Accidents in journey. 


MARS; 


Strong : Is either eldest or youngest in brothers. In 
most of the cases denies younger brother. Gives courage, 
drive initiative to overcome all opposition. It also gives 
strength of arms, capacity to acquire wealth by hard 
labour. 


Weak : If afflicted Mars develops suicidal tendencies. 
Suffers from bone fracture, blood poisoning, danger from 
accidents through travel, from neighbors and relations. 
MERCURY 

Strong : Good education, sharp memory, writing, 


printing or publishing is gainful. Fond of learning, 
cheerful, alert and watchful. 


Result of Planet in Different Houses 199 


AFFLICTED MERCURY : 

Meek, thoughtless, miserable, gloomy and moody. 
Worries and frets. 

JUPITER: 

Strong : If Jupiter is in its own or friendly sign or 
exalted native is wealthy. Good for profession of 
teachers or lecturers. 

Weak : Poor, Lack of children mean and miser. 

Venus: Venus in the 3rd is unfavorable for 
marriage. Causes delays and strife. 

Strong : Highly developed aesthetic sense and 
taste. Fond of fine arts, literature and music. Mature, 
optimistic and peaceful mind. Gain through travel and 
journey taken for pleasure. 

Saturn 

Saturn if strong denotes responsibility, tact, diplomacy, 
power to contemplate, concentration, interest in philosophy, 
studies and writing. Gain to brothers 

Afflicted by malefics discord between brothers. 
Never satisfied, unkind and wicked. Many obstacles 
and difficulties before any success. 

Rahu 

He is strong as a lion, brave, courageous, fortunate 
and wealthy. Good fortune and success through good 
dealings with neighbors, journeys writing or publishing. 
KETU 

Own or exalted sign - grants much happiness, rich, 
sensual and sharp. Destroys enemies. 

Weak Ketu denies happiness, fear and loss through 
friends. 

PLANETS IN 4TH HOUSE 
SUN 

Roaming about, mind disturbed, worried, occult 
and philosophical studies. 

Aspects 10m house and hence good for profession. 


200 Varshaphala 


MOON 

Sensual pleasures . Gives houses, happiness from 
rulers, makes one leader. Travel to foreign country especially 
in movable rasi. Afflicted Moon gives separation from mother. 
MARS 

No peace of mind, quarrels with mother, relatives, 
and friends. Affliction to Mars gives loss through theft, 
litigation' and deception. 
MERCURY 

Travel to other countries, witty, good education, 
conveyance, music, and fine arts. 
JUPITER 

Learned, happy, favour of ruling classes, religious 
inclined fortunate, respected, peaceful domestic life. 
VENUS 

Gives taste for music, friends, houses, art, domestic 
peace and happiness. Great asset for artists. 
SATURN 

Unless lord of lagna is strong this position is not 
good for mother. It causes unhappiness and leads to a 
secluded life. 
RAHU 

Foolish, few friends, fraud. Interferes with early 
education. In female horoscope unhappy in married 
life. Carnal desires aroused. Also makes one engineer. 
KETU 

Foreign connection, deprived of mother, properties, 
happiness, reversal in fortunes 

Ketu / - Saturn affliction causes mental disorder, 
insanity 
PLANETS IN THE 5TH HOUSE 
SUN 


Well placed gives honour success, pleasure, loving 
nature, intelligence and good education. 


Result of Planet in Different Houses 201 


- Afflicted brings loss through speculation and sorrow 
through love, pleasure and pride. 
Afflicted Sun is not good for children and education. 
MOON 
Is patient, gentle, rich, handsome, healthy and 
of noble parentage. Accomplished in fine arts including 
music; wise, prosperous, reputed and blessed with 
obedient sons. 
In watery signs makes a person a doctor or lawyer. 
Three sons possible. 


Afflicted Moon gives melancholia, dull memory, and 
unstable mind. Afflicted by Saturn makes a person a 
cheat 


MARS 


Strong Mars is good for high rank and success. 
Has a voracious appetite with good digestion. 


Afflicted causes abortion and problem with 
children, poverty and wickedness. 


MERCURY 


Well educated, author, intelligent. Writer, poet 
or dramatist in masculine signs. 


Affliction is not good for children, ill educated, cruel 
and quarrelsome. 
VENUS 

Author, well educated, artist, rich. 

Affliction causes problems in sex. 
JUPITER 

Intelligent, god-fearing, rich, well educated. 

Afflicted relations with .children not good. 
SATURN 

Well placed, hard working, sincere. 

Afflicted dull intellect, problem with children. 
RAHU 

Unless well aspected, denies children, engineer. 


202 Varshaphala 


KETU 

Mantra sidhi, harmful for children if badly placed. 
PLANETS IN THE SIXTH HOUSE 
SUN 


Good and famous - may be politician. Successful 
in his entire venture. 

According to Satyachari the Sun in the sixth 
house protects against enemies, sickness, sorrow 
and debt. 

Diseases relating to Sun: The Western astrology does 
not believe that Sun in the 6m house is good. Being in a 
cadent house it weakens the constitution. If afflicted by 
Saturn recovery is slow. The native is mostly indisposed 
and is liable to catch diseases quickly. 


MOON 


If full or exalted or in its own sign helps to guard 
diseases as well as other adversities. Person enjoys life. 

Weak suffering, short lived, poor appetite, inactive 
mentally or physically. Sickness and danger in the 
childhood This is also a combination for Balarishta. 
MARS 


An able administrator, politicians, overcomes 
Opposition, victory in sports and winning of court cases. 

If afflicted diseases relating to Mars like boils, 
permanent injury, weak chest and muscles. Smallpox, 
suffers from hands of servants and accidents. 
MERCURY 


Strong Mercury gives sharp intellect, but quarrelsome 
and popular gets divine knowledge from the holy men. 

Afflicted Mercury educational career suffers, dull 
intellect, nervous, skin diseases, indigestion, diseases 
of generative system. 


JUPITER 
Strong Jupiter is good for career as aspects 10th 


Result of Planet in Different Houses 203 


house. Overcomes his enemies and has wealth. Great 
healer extends healing hand to community. 

Weak leads to diabetes, liver, blood and digestive 
system and as karka for wealth and children, their 
signification suffers. Interest in wine, women and games 
of chance. 

VENUS 

Excessive expenditure leading to poverty and debt, 
much mental torture. Has no enemies. Is wealthy 
according to Bhavrath Ratnakar. 

If afflicted deficiency in married life, corrupted by 
young women. Kidney and ovarian trouble. 

Great success ifin Taurus or Libra. Always cheerful 
if exalted. 

SATURN 

With Saturn in the sixth house the native is not 
afraid of enemy, the king or the intruders. A brave 
warrior. Blessed with cattle wealth. Hard worker, able 
to complete difficult assignments. 

Afflicted, accidents, diseases of right eye, 
quarrelsome. 

RAHU 

It destroys all the enemies. Has strength, wisdom 
and valour. Himself matchless. Hero, handsome, 
intelligent, respected, known like a ruler. Goes abroad. 

Denotes wealth, progeny and pleasure of every 
kind. Trouble free if exalted. Long-lived and wealthy, 
troubled by enemies. 

KETU 

Best position for Ketu, earns name and fame. Free 
from sickness and worry, successful in most heated 
debates and discussions Dear to relatives, large 
hearted skilled, reputed, honour and fame through 
knowledge. Financial gains. High officer. 

Danger from insects, reptiles or animals, unfaithful 
servants. 


204 Varshaphala 


PLANETS IN THE 7™ HOUSE: 
SUN 

Sun and Mercury are very bad in 7. Life is not 
happy even when Sun is exalted. 

According to western astrology, Sun in the 7 gives 
ambitious partner and is good for social and financial 
position. Well aspected gives harmony and happiness 
in married life. 

In Vedic astrology Sun is a malefic planet. It causes 
strained relations with wife, mentally depressed, little 
profit in business -causes insomnia. Not good for 
business. 

Delays marriage. There is no happiness and 
pleasure in married life. 

MOON 

Exalted and full Moon gives a beautiful and 
charming wife. Native himself is handsome and rich. 
Gain from sale or purchase, roving on land and foreign 
trade abroad. He is kind and always travelling, 
dominated by his wife or other women. 

If Moon is debilitated, aspected or associated with 
malefics wife remains sick and no peace and 
happiness in life. Fluctuating life business and trdde. 
Trouble and loss through litigation 
MARS 

The Mars in the 7: causes ‘Kuja dosha' or death of 
partner. It also gives troublesome opponents and 
residence abroad. 

MERCURY 

Sun and Mercury are very bad in 7. Life is not 
happy even when exalted. 

Mercury is a eunuch planet as such is impotent. 
Its association in any form with the 7i: house or 7in 
lord disturbs marriage. 

However, Mercury as a benefic planet and as a karka 
for intelligence is good to be in a kendra The wife is beautiful. 


Result of Planet in Different Houses 205 


JUPITER 

High status in life. Very sensual- great pleasure 
from women. Handsome culture, large hearted 
eloquent, poet and wise. Rich and generous. 
Affectionate wife, fond of literature- charming wife. 
Noble wife blessed with sons. 

Note: Normally Jupiter in the seventh protects 
marriage. 

VENUS 

Comely and true wife gives birth to noble sons. 
Gets maximum pleasure from his wife. Sex with lovely 
women. Eminent artist. Plenty of fans. 

Happiness, social and financial gains from 
marriage. Early marriage. Attractive. Success in public 
relations. Successful partnership. 

If afflicted hinders or delays marriage. 

SATURN 

Saturn in lagna or 7 house in ‘papkartari’ yoga 
gives unconventional, under compulsion or marriage 
of convenience. Saturn Ketu, and Venus give inter 
religious marriage. 

Saturn in 7m house denies charming partner, good 
friends and wealth for a long time. 

Is debauchee, surrounded with wicked friends, 
wealth through fraud and dishonest means. 

Has ailing partner with neither strength nor wealth. 
RAHU 

Wife has infections in generative system. 
Separation from relatives. 

The native is short tempered, deranged, idle, 
wanderer. Hostile to partner. Trouble through partner ugly, 
restless malicious, strife, opposition and hindrance. 


KETU 


Danger from journeys and water. Want of happiness 
from partner or she is wicked. Native himself is immodest, 


206 Varshaphala 


loss of wealth, fear of enemies or thefts. Adulterous, 
deserted by partner 
Ailments of intestines and seminal troubles. 
However, Ketu in Scorpio is good and gainful. 
PLANETS IN 8TH HOUSE 


Phaladeepika. If malefics tenant Trikas from any 
bhava they destroy the bhava in question. If they 
are benefics their benevolence is much reduced. 
SUN: 

This is not good position for natural significator of 
soul to be. He is crafty impostor and lewd. His life is 
hard and difficult. Travels widely and associates with 
low women. 

Diseases: Piles, sudden death due to heat, fever, bile 
or weapon. The father of the native dies. In a female chart 
husband may die first; vice versa, in a male chart. 

Moon: Fear of chronic diseases and strong enemies, 
kings, thieves. In a malefic sign makes one short lived. If 
in own sign or of Venus or Sagittarius or of Mercury or 1s 
full suffering from asthma, eye diseases, chills, 
rheumatism and epilepsy. 

Short Life and Mode of Death: Moon in the last day 
of the dark half or too close to Sun gives short life. 

It indicates death in public place, by drowning, 
shipwreck, road accident, public calamity. 

MARS 

This is not a good position for Mars. Officers with 
Mars in the eight take lot of bribe and are not caught. In 
women horoscope it may mean death of husband as it is 
8" from 7. 

Mars in the 8m house indicates violent or sudden 
death. In watery signs death by drowning, in fiery signs 
death by fire or violence, in airy signs death by mental 
affliction or accidental airy journey. 

Well-placed Mars gives success in Hatha Yoga and 
makes one a politician. 


Result of Planet in Different Houses 207 


MERCURY 
Mercury gives wealth and fame; it is part of Adhi 
yoga. It gives longevity, good reputation and wealth. 
One is famous for his qualities, liked by women,is 
rich. Has land and property. End is peaceful. 
Afflicted ungrateful, vicious, sexy, liar and ailing. 
In female chart worries due to financial difficulties 
with husband and partners. 
JUPITER 
Asura Yoga 


Whenever Jupiter or for that matter Venus or both 
occupy the eight, the yoga is known as Asura Yoga 

Result: One becomes mean, talebearer, will spoil 
other's work, and will be self-interested. He will be head - 
strong, will do vile acts and become miserable. Yoga is 
more malefic when planet is debilitated or is retrograde. 
VENUS 

As a natural benefic its position in eight is not 
good excepting a benefic in the house of longevity gives 
a long life and as a benefic its aspect on 2nd house of 
wealth is good, where it also forms part of adhi yoga. 
But as karka for marriage its relegation to eight is 
not beneficial for a happy married life. Venus afflicted 
by Saturn may cause impotency and unclean habits. 

Favorable : long life, fortune through cattle and 
attendants prosperous and rich as it aspects 2na, 
profit after hard effort, gain and loss by turn and 
delayed victory. Landlord. 
SATURN 


As a natural malefic it is not good in the 8th house. 
Its aspect on tenth is not good for profession, on 2nd is 
not good for wealth and on 5m is not good for progeny. 
But as Ayush karka Saturn in the 8m gives long life. 

Suffers great loss of wealth, sudden separation from 
own people. Perverse minded lazy, glutton and miser. Few 
children, weak eyesight, loss of wealth and health. 


208 Varshaphala 


Lives in a foreign land. 
RAHU 

Hot headed, undiplomatic and unrefined. Much 
unpopular with the bosses. Gains some wealth from the 
government and loses it Journey to foreign countries. 

Well-placed Rahu gives honour and fame from the 
ruler, noble by deed and thought, healthy and cattle 
wealth. Happy in old age. 

KETU 

Favorable: In Scorpio, Virgo, Aries or Gemini- Gain 
of wealth from government, brilliant in games and 
in his job. Brave, industrious and has long life. 

Unfavorable: Difficulty in return of advances given as 
loan, short-lived, separation from friends, strife, arm- 
wound, and much opposition. Danger from conveyance. 
PLANETS IN THE NINTH HOUSE 
THE SUN 

Well-placed Sun gives dutiful son having regard 
for spiritual values. Happiness from sons. 

MOON 

Wealthy, generous, romantic, fond of reading, high 
education. Humanitarian, fame, success. Popular 
and lauded. Success from early youth. 

Beautiful wife, obedient sons, wealth, noble deeds, 
holy pilgrimage and good fortune. Handsome and 
popular. Religious and charitable, learned virtuous, 
will construct temples and ‘dharamshalas’. 

Foreign travel and sea voyages 

Moon of fiery and watery signs makes native a 
writer, publisher or printer. 

Afflicted Moon does not give good results, poor 
fortune, foolish and without character. 

MARS 
¢« Generous, famous, rich and powerful. Exalted in its 
own sign, or with benefics good fortune, generous smart, 


Result of Planet in Different Houses 209 


and bold. Reformer with a modern outlook, destroys 
orthodox beliefs. 

Mars in this house makes a Rajyoga, gets royal 
favor wealth and fame. 

Mars otherwise is a malefic planet. It destroys fortune, 
is not good for father, is irreligious, trouble from poison and 
fire.Does not believe in religion. 

MERCURY 

Very intelligent and rich. Philosopher - scientific bend 
of mind. Science, inventions, discoveries, music, popular. 
Polite, God fearing and fortunate. Ascetic, noble and 
meditative. 

JUPITER 

With benefic planets very wealthy and has much 
immovable property. Religious, charitable, intellectual . 
Good relations with father. 

RAHU 

Nagging and domineering wife, impolite, miser, loose 
morals. Hates his father and reviles God and religion. 
Wealthy and famous, domestic unhappiness. Adultery, 
rude suffering to parents. 

Rahu in 9th house makes one proficient in at 
least one foreign language. 

KETU 

Short tempered, haughty, arrogant, gets upset over 
small matters, does not have good relation with parents. 
Good wife and children - saves money. 

PLANETS IN THE 10TH HOUSE 

The 10 is the most powerful kendra. Strong planets lift 
here a person to dizzy heights. Benefic planets make a 
person noble, generous and charitable. A benefic in the 10 
from lagna or Moon gives rise to'Amala Yoga, the yoga of 
nobility and prosperity. 

SUN: 

Sun in the 10 has directional strength. It is good for 

profession and vocational success. However, as a 


210 Varshaphala 


natural malefic it may cause separation from 
parents. Tenth is sixth from fifth house. Placement 
of a malefic here is not good for children. 

If Sun is strong i.e. is exalted, is in its own sign is 
good for achieving fame, wealth, education, honours. One 
is brave, has love of music and art. Is kind and generous. 
Does service to saints. Has power and authority and high 
moral standard. Does charitable work, constructs tanks, 
ponds, wells and temples. One gets patronage of high 
placed men. It also shows popularity with the government. 

According to Western astrology he has a responsible 
post and lives with honour and dignity. It may also 
mean service with government 
MOON: 

Moon in the 10 gives success. Does good acts, is 
helpful, virtuous and rich 

Well Placed: Gives public recognition and popularity. Is 
prominent, travels a lot, (especially in movable rasis) is 
intelligent, noble and kind. If lord of ten is strong does 
noble deeds. Is devoted to his parents. 

Moon is a quick moving watery planet. This may 
indicate lot of voyages and travel to foreign countries. 

Moon aspected by benefics brings success to the 
native wherever he lays his hands upon. Goes on 
pilgrimage to holy places. 

MARS: 

(In the 10th house Mars gets directional strength.) 

Strong: Exalted, in its own house it gives rise to 
Mahapurush yoga named Ruchaka Yoga.According to 
Phaladeepika person born in this yoga will be full of 
courage and powerful. He will conquer his enemies and 
will be arrogant. He will be famous, and successful. He 
will be commander of an army. 

In Cancer and Leo lagna it is Rajyyoga karka High 
status, prince. Under influence of Jupiter gets untold 
wealth, land, conveyance and prosperity. 

Weak Mars: Accident, fire, weapons. If in enemy sign 


Result of Planet in Different Houses 211 


father dies. Extravagant vicious, and unworthy sons. 
Mars Moon if afflicted a person is cold and selfish. 

Impulsive, mind not rational dominated by forceful 
side of nature. Merciless, wicked and full of courage. 
MERCURY 


Rich, politician, has inheritance and property. Brave, 
handsome, intelligent. Scholar of art, science, well known, 
jovial. Higher intellectual activities. Success from the 
beginning of any undertaking. Truth loving, courteous, 
and luxury loving. 

JUPITER 

Lives in a magnificent abode adorned with banners. A 
celebrity, religious, in company with Brahmins who recite 
Veda Mantras day and night Glorious, recognized by the 
ruler, of noble conduct and renowned, generous and 
fair. 


The native is with State Emblem, best of conveyances, 
friends, sons, women and wealth. Glorious and conqueror. 
Successful from the beginning, righteous, dutiful, 
wealth through father if with Sun, from mother if with 
Moon from a friend if Mercury and from an enemy if Mars 
and from a servant if Saturn. Jupiter gives lot of wealth if 


in lagna, four or ten. 


Virtuous, lofty and ideal, religious, humble, performs 
good deeds, skilled, truth loving, once he starts a job 
finishes it. An intellectual giant. Name, fame and favours 
of superiors, dignified status. Noble birth, gain through 
superiors. Secure and important positions in life.. 
VENUS 


Wealthy liked by women. Rich, religious, fortunate. 

Pleasure, plenty of sex, wise, charrning attractive. 
Have conveyances, jewellery. Performs many Yajnas, 
senior officer in government. 

Love for art and music. Blessed with parents 
and happy home, honours. 

Afflicted: Unnatural relations with women, loss of 


212 Varshaphala 


wealth and fame. 
SATURN 


Well Placed: Royal status, happy, noble, minister, politic, 
courteous. A senior district officer. Interested in agriculture. 
Maintains status in foreign land. Fearless and proud. 
Political leader- 'Neta' 


In Pisces takes to Sanyas. 


In unfavorable sign adversity after success, 
financial setbacks for businessmen, dishonour defeats. 


ILL Placed: Death of parents in childhood. A hard life. 
Vile, poor, fickle. Setback, imprisonment, and demotion, 
suspension, termination, imprisonment, chronic diseases. 
Father and son cannot progress under same roof. 


RAHU: 


Exalted, the person is ruler, has immovable property. 
In Pisces sensual, extravagant, killer of enemies. 

Loves and has sex with widows and wicked women. 
Pleasure in the company of most beautiful women. 
Intoxication living in company of foreigners. Thief, 
characterless, dishonest, chattering, trouble through 
father. 


KETU 


In signs of Mars, Aries and Scorpio, Taurus or Virgo 
kills enemies, intelligent, strong, self-realization. 
Loss of reputation through fraud, treachery, 
unfavorable public or market conditions, failures, changes 
or depression. Diseases of rectum, lowly habits and deeds, 
adulterous. 
PLANETS IN THE 11TH HOUSE 


Sun: - wealth, royalty, high job in government, wisdom 
and man of principles, loyal and devoted family and lucky 
in general, easy success. Photography, hereditary 
profession, wool, industry, gold jewelry, banking, audit 
stock exchange. 


Very rich, good servants and dear to the king. 


Result of Planet in Different Houses 213 


Moon: - wealth, generous, noble, immense lands, and 
many women to help him. Fond of literature and art, good 
reputation, earns through lands, farming, milk, dairy, 
wines coffee, snack bar, pearls, fish. 

Mars: - Influential, great status, landed properties, 
forceful speaker, clever and rich. 

Crafty, drugs, chemicals, lands, timber, minerals, 
metals, sports good. 

Mercury: - Intelligent, master of many techniques, 
learned in sciences, keen sharp intellect. Rich, wealthy, 
truthful, happy, mathematics, astrology and science. 
JUPITER: ° 

Gains from various sources, immensely rich, head of a 
. clan. Intelligent, noble, wealthy, riches, many friends and 
fond of Music. 

Venus: - wealthy, fond of travel, likes company of 
opposite sex. Popular and friendly. Theatre, dance, music 
many friends, women, hoteliering, cosmetics, show 
business,. 

SATURN 

Has many men and women working under him. 
Politics - earnings through government. Fond of 
enjoyment, few friends, disrupted education. Land and 
immovable property, industries, brick kiln, printing press, 
hardware, oil refineries. 

Rahu: - Famous, wealthy, learned, chief in armed 
forces, wealth in foreign countries, ear affliction. Leader of 
low classes, wealth through farming, agriculture. 

Ketu 

Windfall through lottery, speculation, stock exchange, 
noble and successful. 

Has good qualities of head and heart. Travel to 
many places in comfort. 

PLANETS IN 12th HOUSE; 
Sun : Strong long life. 
Afflicted Sun: Weak eyesight, not good for spiritual 


214 ‘ Varshaphala 


progress, immoral life, not successful in life, health 
suffers. Gives foreign travel, gets trouble from government 


Moon: narrow-minded, does not care for feelings 
of others, weak body, eyesight weak. 

The person is emotional, has foreign travels. 

Mars : Selfish, hateful, loss of wife, fiery disease. 
Fear from thieves; Desire to deprive others of their 
wealth. 

Mercury : - It gives foreign travel. Well placed is 
good for spiritual life. Loss of money, sinful deeds. 
JUPITER 

Not religious, sexually inclined, later in life spiritual. 
Jupiter in 12 is not good for children, but good for Moksha. 
VENUS 

Lustful, does evil deeds, is a liar and is hard 
hearted. Bed pleasures, wealth, foreign travel. 
SATURN 

Pessimist, morose, lonely, ugly, dull, financial 
losses, sinful. 

Person is poor, unhappy, miser and lethargic. 
RAHU 

Financially good, immoral, helpful. It gives eye 
and feet diseases. Deceitful, affectionate and loving, 
fond of company of wicked people. 

KETU 

Is a Moksha karka, good in 12, (some say best position 
for Ketu is six) 

Gives restless and wandering spirit and financial 
losses. 


Chapter-XV 
Varshaphala_ and 
Timing Events 


This chapter has been written under the guidance of 
KN Rao and contains results of years of his researches 
and observations in the interpretation of Varshaphala 
charts. These details are being revealed for the first time 
with the clear understanding that these will not be 
published or quoted in any form without prior permission 
of KN Rao. The violation of this rule will attract copyright 
act and stringent action will be taken against offenders. 


These observations have worked well and given 
excellent results in hundreds of predictions given by 
Rao. These are being reveded for the first time for the 
benefit of students and scholars of Astrology. 


1. According to KH Rao, while giving predictions on 
Varshaphala or Annual Chart, first make following 
observations: 


In the years which are notable in the life of a 
person concerned particularly in his professional life 
the tenth house or karmasth&na assumes great 
importance. A strong tenth house and well placed 
luminaries become the pivotal point for consideration 
as can be seen in series of horoscopes given 
here. But before that the following should be kept in 
mind. 


i) First examine the birth horoscope together with 
the dashas and transits of planets. The promise that 
emerges out of it must not be overlooked as the 
Varshaphala chart cannot give what is not promised 


216 


ii) 


Varshaphala 


in the birth horoscope. 


Yet, if skill is developed in the interpretation of 
the Varshaphala chart, it will be seen that there 
is no conflict between the birth horoscope and the 
Varshaphala chart. 


it) In the Varshaphala chart the following points need 


to be kept in mind for making subtle interpretations. 
a) The condition of the lagna and the lagna lord. 
b) The placement of the luminaries, Sun and 


Moon from the Varshaphala chart. If they are 
well placed in kendra and trikonas and well 
associated or aspected, generally good results 
will flow. 


c) The reverse of it is when the lagna and lagna 


lord are afflicted and the luminaries, Sun and 
Moon too are not in a happy condition, there 
can be pain of a different type. 


d) The cardinal point in a Varshaphala chart is 


the Panchavargeeya bala or the strength of the 
planets in the Varshaphala chart. The strong 
one among the planets exerts themselves and 
their signification or Karkatwas manifest well 
in life. For example a strong Sun is favourable 
for the signification connected with it. It must 
be remembered a strong Sun in a Varshaphala 
chart has to be judged subtly as it will have 
the same strength or weakness as is seen in 
the birth horoscope because the Varshaphala 
chart is based on the degrees and minutes of the 
birth Sun. 


In the case of other planets, they change invariably 


in their Panchavargeeya bala in different years. It is, 
therefore, logical that the panchavargeeya bala 
becomes important in the case of planets other than 
Sun in a Varshaphala chart. 


Varshaphala and Timing Events 917 


High Political Power 


Pt. JL Nehru became first Prime Minister of India 
on 15.8. 1947. 


Birth Chart 14.11.1889 11:05 PM, Allahabad 


He became 1st Prime Minister of Independent India 
on August 15, 1947. At that time he was running 
the Vimshottari dasha of Moon Sun. Moon as lagna 
lord was in lagna. Sun though technically in the 
fifth house was in 4th Bhava in the Bhava chart. 
Five planets were aspecting his 10th house including 
Mars lord of 10th house.This horoscope had also 
Mala Yoga, a yoga of prosperity and great name and 
fame. Two benefics in the fourth house including 4a 
lord made him write flowery English. It was prose ofa 
high order. These benefics also made him very popular 
public figure. 


In 1947 he was running Mahadasha of Moon. Moon 
as lagna lord in lagna gave him immense popularity. 
This gave him a charismatic personality which 
endeared hundreds and thousands to him. 

Annual horoscope for Nehru for the year 1946 
(57Completed years) to show events for 1947. 

Ascendant 23°57' :Sun 0°16' : Moon 05°51': Mars 
13° 49': Mercury 12° 04'(R) Jupiter 18° 03° Venus 
02°36' (R) :Saturn 15° 44’ : Rahu 19° 27' 


2 


Q 


Annual 
Horoscope 
1946 


Su Me 
Ve Ma] Jup 
: Ke 


Main Features of the Horoscope : 


1. 


Lagna lord in the 6m aspecting its own house the 
12% which strengthens Saturn's other rasi 
Aquarius in lagna also. 6: is a good place for 
malefics. Here Nehru had to fight the great might 
of British imperialism to win independence for 
India.Lagna is aspected by Jupiter to make him 
a great humanitarian. 

Both luminaries Sun and Moon are in kendras. 
Sun has directional strength in the 10% house 
and is with Mars 10m lord. 

There are 5 planets in the 10m house including 
lord of 10 house Mars in its own house with 
directional strength. 

There are many Raj Yogas in the horoscope. Lord 
of 10 Mars with lord of 9 Venus making Dharam 
Karam Adhipati Yoga, a Raj yoga of the highest 
order. 

Mercury as lord of 5 is with Venus lord of 9 and 
Mars lord of 10. 

Rahu/ Ketu are exalted. 

There is ithasala yoga of Saturn lagna lord with 
Mars lord of 10. 


Muntha is in the third house with its lord in the 10th 
house in its own rasi Muntha is in Aries which is 


2. 


Varshaphala and Timing Events 219 


10th house of birth chart. 
Birth Horoscope ofShankar Dayal Sharma ex- 
President of India 


Date of Birth 19 :08 : 1918, 6:19 AM Bhopal 


Horoscope 


He became President of India in the dasha of 


Venus Saturn in 1992. 


1. 


hb © 


In this horoscope three pivots of the horoscope 

(Sun, Moon 6B Lagna) are strong. Lagna lord is in 

lagna making a major Raj Yoga. 

Moon is in trikona the fifth house aspected by 

Jupiter, the 5 lord. 

Sun is stwong, phced na kendra zn its own house. 
The 9m lord Mars aspects its own 9m house. 

The 5 lord Jupiter is aspecting 9m and 4in lord 

Mars who is also a yogakarka thus making a 

powerful Rajyoga. 

From Moon Mars is 5th lord in 11 aspected by 

Jupiter fourth lord from Moon. 

Jupiter is aspecting its own rasi with Moon 

making another Raj Yoga. 

There is a strong Gaj Kesari yoga as well as Vasi yoga 

From Moon 10 lord is Mercury with 9: lord Sun 

in the 9» from Moon making a powerful Dharam 
Karma Aadhipati Yoga. 


10. The dasha running when he became President of 


220 Varshaphala 


India was that of Saturn Venus. 

11. Saturn as 6m lord is in the 12m making Vipreet 
Rajyoga and Venus is lord of 10 house. 

12. Saturn aspects its own house the 6m as a result 
the 7: house of Padprapti is also strengthened. 
Venus is the 10" lord. 

13. Dispositor of Saturn and Venus is Moon which 
is powerfully placed in a trikona aspected by its 
rasi lord Jupiter. 

14. Lagna has a Parijat Yoga. Mercury is Amatya 
karka in a kendra with Sun, a political planet. 
Thus the birth horoscope is showing the potential 
for the highest post. 

Now let us see the Annual Chart for the year 1991 
to show events of 1992 year. 

Annual Horoscope for 19.8.1991, 11:17: 06 President 

of India 1992 


Shankar Dayal 
Sharma - 


Asd 28°39', Sun 2°30', Moon 0°27', Mars 28°14", 

Mercury 6°23', (R), Jupiter 1°10,’ Venus (R) 7°23’, 

Saturn 8°05', Rahu 23°10". 

Main Features. 

1. 10% lord Saturn in the 10“ house. 

2. Sun in its own Royal sign with lagha lord Mars, 
9 lord Jvipiter, seventh lord Venus and 3:4 and 
6" lord Mercury making Rajyogas. 

3. 4 lord of public in the ninth ofluck aspected by 9: 


Varshaphala and Timing Events 221 


lord Jupiter.Even though it is with Rahu, Rahu 
in trikona is good in kodanda rasi of Jupiter. 
Ithasal between two luminaries Moon lord of 4 
and Sun lord of 5. 

Ithasal yoga between Moon lord of 4 and Jupiter 
lord of ninth house. 

Itasal yoga between Moon lord of 4 from 9 with 
Venus lord of 7 in fifth house. 

Ithasal yoga between Sun lord of 5 with Saturn 
lord of 10. 

Lagna lord Mars is almost at the end of rasi and 
will make Bhavishya ithasal with retrograde Saturn 
lord of 10. 


3. Rajiv Gandhi, 
Rajiv Gandhi: 20.8 1944 .8: 11 AM (Wartime) Bombay 


Ascendant 15° 29' : Sun 3°47': Moon 17°6' : Mars 1°12’: 
Mercury 28° 32'(R) Jupiter 12° 12': Venus 18 ° 39'(R): 
Saturn 14° 18’: Rahu 3° 


He Was running dasha of Rahu - Jupiter on 

21.8.1984. 

1. The strength of the horoscope is (Parashari 
aspects) Lagna lord Sun in lagna. 

2. Bhagya lord Yoga karka Mars is aspecting its 
own house of luck. 

3. The 10th lord Venus is combining with 5th lord 


Jupiter to make a powerful Dharam Karma adhipati. 
It is still more powerful as lagna lord is also involved. 


222 Varshaphala 


This is also aspected by Saturn as lord of 7. 

4. The placement of Saturn in 11th house is good 
and Rahu has been appreciated in Cancer. 

5. In 1984 the dasha running was Rahu Jupiter. Rahu 
is well placed in Cancer rasi without any malefic 
aspect. Its dispositor Moon is in kendra. Jupiter is 
making many Rajyogas in lagna. (Jupiter is with 
Moon lord of 12 and karka for mother. Jupiter is also 
lord of 8 which explains death of Mother especially 
when it is with lord of 3 Venus also). 

Rajiv Gandhi: Annual Chart 20.8. 1984. 1: 12: 45 

PM: Prime Minister 31; 10:1984 


Annual 


Horoscope 


1984 


Ascendant 14° 45' Sun 3 ° 50°: Moon 9 ° 34': Mars 7° 40°: 
Mercury 18° (R) 21Jupiter 9° 38' (R) : Venus 21 ° 45((R) : 
Saturnl7° 13': Rahu 8° 35' 

Main Features 

1. Lagna lord in lagna aspected by exalted Moon lord 
9 of Bhagya and exalted Rahu. 

2. Sunas 10thlord in 10thhouse having directional 
strength with lord of 7 Venus padprarpati, as well 
as Mercury lord of 8 and 11.Being lord of 8th it 
gives advantage suddenly at death of some one 
(mother in this case). 

3. Jupiter is in its own Mooltrikona sign and is 
also aspecting 10th house. 

4. There is ithasal of 10th lord Sun and lagna lord Mars. 

5. There is ithasala yoga of Venus 7th lord with Mercury 


Varshaphala and Timing Events 223 


lord of llth house. 

6 Itasal yoga between Moon Bhagya lord and exalted 
lord of 4th house Saturn. 4th represents public life. 
All conditions laid down by KN Rao for achieving 
success: are fulfilled. 

8 The year lbrdis Sun wm its own house M the 10 
with directional strength with two benefics 
Mercury and Venus in ithasala with each other. 
Sun in 10mpromises glory and high status. 

9, Muntha is in the 2nd with Muntha lord in its 
own house again promising high. political career. 

FALL FROM POWER AND HUMILIATION: 

Indira Gandhi Annual Chart 1974 

Fall from Power and Humiliation: 

Allahabad Court Judgement - Imposition of 

Emergency - 26. 6. 1975 
Dasha-Saturn Mercury in Vimshottari Dasha- 

Mercury 12th lord Saturn 8th lord in birth horoscope. 

Annual Chart: 20 .11- 1974 Indira Gandhi Annual 

Chart 1974 


Annual 
Chart 


1974 


Lag 3°22', Sun 4 °08', Moon 16° 50,: Mars 22° 10°: Mer 18° 

09’, Ven 7° 35" Jup 14° 57, Sat 25° 02' (R), Rah 17° 17; 

1. Saturn has the evil lordship of 11 and 12. It is 
retrograde and is in the 4th house and the 4th lord 


224 Varshaphala 


Mercury is in the 8th house. Muntha was in 

Marka house and Muntha adhipati Mars in the 

8th. The 10th house is afflicted by Saturn and 

lord of 10th was in the 12th house. 

The lagna and 10th lord of the annual horoscope 

Jupiter is again in the 12th. 

There are no benefics in the kendras. 

Sun is afflicted in Rahu / Ketu axis and is with 

Venus lord of 8 and 3. 

Moon is afflicted by Mars. Moon a luminary has 

Ithasala yoga with Mars a Marka in the 8. Mars 

is also with Mercury, lord of 7 and Marka. 

6. The lord of Bhagya 9 Mars is in eight with Mercury 
who has kendra adhipati dosha. 

7. Muntha is in adverse 6th house and lord of the 
year Moon is not strong. 

Only redeeming feature is the aspect of Jupiter, but 
Jupiter is powerless in the 12th in his enemy's house. 
2. Years of Humiliation of Political Parties 

Horoscope of BJP 6th April 1980 at 11:45 AM. Delhi 
with Mithun lagna 23 degrees and 36 minutes and Moon 
in Vrischik with 26 degrees and 2 minutes. Mars 2° 15’, 
Jupiter 7° 16', Mer 25°34’, Ven 8°49", Sat 28° 19’, Rahu 3° 
13’, 

I. Bhartiya Janata Party 


Varshaphala and Timing Events 225 


The Annual horoscope of 2001 with Tula lagna. 


Annual 


Horoscope 


Sun 23° 0O1', Moon 2° 48', Mars 28° 44', Mercury 
6° 44’, Venus 11 ° 15', Jupiter 14° 46', Saturn 4° 30’, 
Rahu 16° 45', Lag 23°40". 

Sun and Muntha in the 6th house and Moon in 
the twelfth house with Tula lagna rising. It was 
the year of disgrace for BJP with Tehelka report and 
series of defeats in elections in different states causing 
misery. 

Similarly see the Congress Party (2ndJanuary, 
1978 at 11:59 AM Delhi. 


Congress 
Party 


Lagna 15° 52', Sun 17° 58', Moon 15° 06', Mars 15° 08' 
(R), Mercury 27 °43 Jupiter 6° 08', Venus 13° 11', Saturn 
6 ° 34'(R), Rahu 16° 56', 


226 Varshaphala 


II. Indian National Congress Party 1984 Annual Chart 


Annual 


Chart 


Lagna 24°21', Sun 17° 58', Moon 13° 17', Mars 1° 59', 
Mercury 12° 06', Jupiter 24° O1', Venus 8° 27', Saturn 
20° 28', Rahu 20° 48'. 


The annual horoscope for 1984 shows a strong 
4th house with two malefics in the 2nd house. It was 
the year in which Indira Gandhi was shot dead. There 
was change of leadership and Rajiv Gandhi rode on a 
strong sympathy wave with more than four hundred 
Congress MPs in the Lok Sabha. See the position of 
lagna lord Mercury in 4m kendra with Sun and Moon 
and 4" lord Jupiter. There is Ithasala Yoga of lagna 
lord Mercury with Sun. There is also Ithasal of 
luminaries Sun and Moon with 4% lord Jupiter. 


Year Lord is Venus of moderate strength and 
shows diffculties. 


FIGHTBACK: 


In the case of politicians who have to fight to wrest 
power, the importance of sixth and third houses 
becomes crucial as can be seen in the case of Indira 
Gandhi in the year 1966 when she had to fight 
elections against Morarji Desai to become the Prime 
Minister of India after the death of Lal Bahadur 
Shastri. 


Varshaphala and Timing Events 227 


Indira Gandhi's Annual Horoscope 1966 :20.11.1965, 
6:34:41 AM 


Annual 
Horoscope 1966 


20.11.1965 | 


Lagna 5° 44’, Sun 4° 08', Moon 25° 33', Mars 10° 58’, 
Mercury 25° O1', Venus 21° 12', Jupiter 6 ° 21' Saturn 
17° 07', Rahu 11°29’. 

In this horoscope the 3™ lord is Saturn and is 
very well placed in the 4m house in kendra in its 
Mooltrikona sign. It is making Ithasala with lagna 
lord Mars who is placed in the 2n4 house . Moon the 
9:1 lord of luck and Mercury the 11" lord of gains is 
making complete ithasala. 


10th lord Sun is in lagna with 8th and 11th lord 
Mercury. 8th house gave sudden gains after the 
death of Lal Bahadur Shastri. . 


Muntha is in the 9th house assuring destruction 
of enemies, gain in power, elevation to high status, 
fame and honour. 


228 Varshaphala 


Case of the ex-Prime Minister, Atal Behari Bajpai in the 
year 1998. Prime Minister on 19.3.1998 


Annual 


Horoscope 
1997 


Note the extraordinary strong 6: house with lord of 10 
Venus with Yogakarka exalted Mars in Ithasala yoga 
and Jupiter lord of 5 and 8. (Venus 10°-06; Mars 12°!’; 
Jup27°9). 

Wife's death due to fire burns 

DOB 13 03 1947, 7.55 Hours Death of wife by fire on 
1.10.1989 : Sun 28° 35' Mars 13° 29' Mer 20° 22' 


Main Features in Birth Horoscope 

1. Seventh house aspected by both Saturn and Mars. 

2. 7th lord Mercury in the 12m with Mars lord of 2 
and Sun lord of 6. 

3. Karka Venus afflicted by Saturn lord of 11&12 and 9® 
aspect of Rahu. Sign of Venus has Rahu (Taurus rasi). 

4. No benefics in kendras. 


\o 


Varshaphala and Timing Events 22 


5. From Moon : 7in house aspected by Mars and is in 
Rahu Ketu axis. Moon is debilitated. 

Sun has gone to 12th house and is afflicted by Mars. 
Seventh house has aspect of Mars. 

nnual Horoscope for 1989. 


Pua 


Lagna 13° 41', Sun28° 33', Moon 8° 60", Mars 7° 12', Mer 9° 
37', Jup 6° 33', Venus 22° 43', Saturn 18 ° 51', Rahu. 
Main Features 

1. No benefic in kendras 

2. A fiery sign Sagittarius rising with Saturn (2nd 
Lord) who is aspecting 7» house (Marka). 

Moon is afflicted with Mars and is in the 6m, 
even though exalted and with lagna lord Jupiter, 
Moon is 8: lord in 6in. 

4. Sun is in Rahu Ketu axis aspected by Saturn 
lord of 2 & 3. 

5. 7th lord Mercury afflicted by Mars and is in Rahu 
Ketu axis. 

6. Venus the karka for marriage afflicted and is 
aspected by Saturn and is in Rahu / Ketu axis. 
12: lord Mars is in 6m, afflicting lagna lord Jupiter 
and Moon 

8. Moon and Mars are within | degree ofeach other. 

9. Mercury lord of 7 is having Ithasla yoga with Moon lord of 8. 

10 Mercury 7: lord is having Ishraf with Venus 6: & 11. 


230 


Varshaphala 


11. Venus 6 lord having ithasala yoga with Sun. 
DEATH OF HUSBAND: 
Birth Chart of Wife 2.7.1959; 7:50 AM 


Ket Moon 
! 5°07" i : 2 


Birt roscope 


h Ho 
Lag 16° 08' 
Sun 16° 11' 


Moon I* 54' 
Mar 25° 25' 


Husband died in Road Accident on 22.6.1996 
Annual Chart of wife for the year 1995. 


Lagna 26° 51’,Sun 16° 11', Moon 4° 12', Mars 25° 17', Mer 
24° 34’, Jup 13° 11', Ven 13° 11’ (R) Sat 0° 56’, Rahu 8° 19". 


1. 


Di 


3, 


Lagna is afflicted by Saturn, Moon by Mars and 
Sun by Rahu (9th Aspect). 

Seventh house is afflicted by Saturn and Mars 
(Parashari aspect), and squared by Saturn. 

Venus is afflicted by Sun lord of 12. The sign Leo has Mars. 
Jupiter karka for husband is retrograde and is 
afflicted by Mars.Mars is lord of 3 and 8. 

There is Poorna Ithasala between lagna lord Mercury 


Varshaphala and Timing Events 231 


and Mars lord of 8 in 12. Mars is sometimes treated 
as karka for husband. 
3.PERSONAL MISFORTUNES 
1. DEATH OF JL NEHRU - 27.5.1964 
Annual Horoscope for 1963, 16, 11, 1963. 10 25 PM 


02' Jup 16° 47 (R) Venus 20° 33’, Sat 23° 11', Rahu 20° 24' 

Main Features of Annual Horoscope 

1. No benefic planets is in kendra. 

2. Lagna being aspected by Saturn, Marka for this 
lagna from the Marka house. Lagna is also being 
aspected by Jupiter who is 6h lord also. Mooltrikona 
sign of Jupiter has Ketu. 

3. Sun and Moon afflicted by Mercury lord of 12 and 
3, as also with Venus lord of 4 and 11. They are 
also with Mars even though Mars is yoga karka. 
Ithasala Yoga between lagna lord Moon and 8 
lord Saturn. (Bhavishya ithasala) 

5. Recurence of birth lagna Cancer which is known 
as Dud- Janama Year. 

Now see the Vimshottari Dasha’as applicable to 

Birth Horoscope. 

In Vimshottari Dasha it was dasha of Rahu 

Mercury on 27.5. 1964. 

Rahu is in the 12 in the birth chart and is qualified 
killer. Mercury is lord of 12 and Moon is lagna lord. 


232 Varshaphala 


On the day of death Saturn was transiting 
through 8th house ofthe birth chart and Rahu was in 
12 on natal Rahu and was in 8th from Moon. 

i) Assassination of Mahatma Gandhi. 
Birth Horoscope of Mahatma Gandhi 2nd October 
1869. 


Lagna 11° 56’, Sun 16° 55', Moon 28° 15', Mars 26° 23’, 
Mer 11° 45’, Jupiter 28 ° 08', Venus 24 ° 26', Saturn 20 ° 
20', Rahu 12° 08' 


ii) Assassination of Mahatma Gandhi 30.1.1948. 
Annual Horoscope for 78th Year 4.10.1947 


Lagna 9° 17', Sun 16° 55', Moon 4° 07', Mars 8°36', Mer 10° 
09', Jupiter 2 ° 57’, Venus 25 ° 06’, Saturn 26 ° 18', Rahu 
2° 24' 


Varshaphala and Timing Events 233 


Main Features. 

1. Recurrence of Dwi Janama 

2. Two strong malefic Mars and Saturn in the 10m 
house. Mars is debilitated, is with Saturn and is 
aspected by lord of 6, Jupiter. Jupiter in turn is in 
Rahu Ketu axis. 

3. Sun in 12 afflicted by Saturn who in turn is 
with Mars. 

4. Moon afflicted in Rahu / Ketu axis. It is also 
aspected by Jupiter lord of malefic 3 and 6. 

5. Lagna lord Venus and Saturn at almost same 
degree in Ithasala Yoga. Venus is also lord of 8 in 
twelve. It is Lagna lord and lord ofyear debilitated 
in 12, and has aspect of Saturn. 

6. At the time of death 31.1. 1948 Rahu was transiting in 
7 from lagna and 8th from Moon. It was aspected by 
Saturn. Saturn was aspecting both Sun and Moon. 

iii) Indira Gandhi; Birth Horoscope, November 19, 

1917: 11; 11 PM. Allahabad 


1 tndira Gandhi EB ; 
on . es 


9 
Rah 
Ven 


Lagna 27° 25', Sun 4° 08', Moon 5° 35', Mars 16 ° 21', 
Mer 13° 14', JupiterR 14° 59’, Venus 21° Saturn 21 ° 
49', Rahu. 10° 34. 

Assassination of Indira Gandhi: Indira Gandhi 
was shot dead on 31.10 1984. 


Horoscope 


234 Varshaphala 


Annual Horoscope for 20.11. 1983, 9 20 PM 


Sun4° 06', Moon 5° 51', Mars 7° 41', Mercury 16° 00", Jupiter 

22 ° 58', Venus 18 ° 20', Saturn 16 ° 03', Rahu 23 ° 05’. 

Recurrence of Dwi Janam 

Lagna aspected by Saturn. 

Moon in Rahu Ketu axis. 

Sun also in Rahu/ Ketu axis. 

Mercury lord of 12 also afflicting Sun and Moon. 

Moon lagna lord in Ithasala with Mars. Sun also 

in ithasala with Mars. 

. Moon lagna lord in ithasala with Mercury lord of 12. 

8. Saturn lord of 8 in rasi of Venus who is debilitated 
in 3rd and is with Mars. Moon lagna lord also in the 
rasi of Venus. 

iv) Death of Rajiv Gandhi21- 05-1991 

Annual Horoscope for 1990 


Lag 
Mun 


Ju Ke 
21.5.1991 Ve 


ANRwWNE 


Varshaphala and Timing Events 235 


Ascendant 5° 50° :Sun 3° 50,: Moon 7° 59 Mars 0 ° 40,: 
Mercury 28° 50'(R) Jupiter 6 ° 49 * Venus 14° 45(R) : 
Saturn 25° 51': Rahul2° 27' 
Transit Chart 21.5.1991 


In birth Lagna aspected by Saturn and Mars 
afflicts Lagna lord Mercury, Moon and Sun. Jupiter, 
Mars and Saturn in 6/12 axis from Moon and Janam 
lagna, in transit chart. Lord of Muntha Mercury and 
Lord of year Sun aspected by Mars. 

‘Aircrash of Sanjay Gandhi 23.6. 1980 

Birth Horoscope D.O. B. 1.12. 1946, 9 27 AM Delhi 
Died in Aircrash 23.6. 1980 
Birth Horoscope of Sanjay Gandhi: D.O.B 14: 12: 
1946. 9:27 AM Delhi 


Main features of the horoscope (taken from the 
book The Nehru Dynasty’ by KN Rao.) 


236 Varshaphala 


1. Lagna lord Saturn is retrograde in the 7th aspected 
by Mars lord of 4 (Vehicles). This is the most 
sinister feature of horoscope. 

2. Moon in the 8th is not considered favourable in 
the 8th house for longevity even though under 
certain circumstances it is protective. 


3. The 8th lord of longevity Sun is in 11 with the 
6th lord Mercury with Ketu behind and Mars 
ahead of it. 

Death in Air Crash 23. 6. 1980 

Annual Chart for 14: 12: 1979 : 8.32 PM 


oS 
soe 


Ascendant 10°39 ‘:Sun 28 ° 27’: Moon | ° 45": Mars 16 °03': 
Mercury 9° 06(R) Jupiter 16 ° 26': Venus 26° 20'(R): 
Saturn 2 ° 07': Rahu 28 ° 46' 
1. There is no benefic in kendras 
1. Saturn is retrograde. It goes to Simha rasi 
and as lord of 7 and 8 Marka afflicts Moon. As 
lord of the year when it comes to Simha Rasi 
it comes in the grip of Rahu Ketu and gets 
afflicted by Mars. 
2. Sun is afflicted by Mercury lord of 3 and 12 
is also afflicted by Saturn (Parashari aspect). 
3. Sun is also squared by Mars and retrograde 
Saturn who also operates from Simha rasi. 
4. Mars is afflicted by Jupiter lord of 6 and Rahu 
afflicts Sun. 


Sanjay Gandhi 
Annual 
Horoscope 


Varshaphala and Timing Events 237 


5. While Muntha is in the 4th house its lord 
Ven is in the 6th. 
6. Moon and Saturn are almost at the same degrees. 
Transit Chart on day of Accident 23.6.1980 


1. Lagna is in the axis of Rahu Ketu with Mercury 
lord of 3 and 12. 
2. Moon is debilitated and is squared by Mars and 
Saturn and Jupiter lord of six. 
Years of Glory and Fame 
1. MS Subhalaxmi 
16.9.1916 : 9 30 AM Madurai 


14-03 | 0-14 
Lag Sun 


Mar Mer 
12-15 | 25-51 


A great votary of Carnatic Music and a household 
name. She is well known singer of divine and ecstatic 
Bhajans greatly admired by Mahatma Gandhi. 

1. Lagna lord Venus in the 10m with Yoga Karka Saturn 


238 Varshaphala 


and Ketu are the combination for fame and singer 
of divine music as combination of Venus with 
Ketu would suggest. Birth is in auspicious Tula 
lagna aspected by 10 lord Moon who is with Jupiter 
making Gaj Kesari yoga. 

2. Mercury is Atma karka . It is exalted lord of nine 
with Sun the natural karka for Atma 


1. Karkamsa lagna is Leo . The 10m from Karkamsa 
lagna is Taurus. It has the Jaimini aspect of Saturn 
Venus and Ketu which is fame giving combination. 
She became famous in Year 1945 when she sang 
and acted in Tamil film Meera Bai and became 
a household word. 

See the Annual Chart for the year 1944. (16.9.1944) 

13:46 hrs. 


Annual 1944 
else 
Lagna 11° 30', Sun 0° 14', Moon 17° 09', Mars 18° 47’, 
Mer 15° 265 Venus 22° 15', Jup 18° 06' Sat 16 26, 
Rahu 122 
Main Features : 
1. Sun with digbal is lord of 9 in 10 with lord of five 
Mars and lord of 6 and 11 Venus. 
2. Moon is well placed in trikona with lagna lord 
Jupiter and Mercury lord of 10. 


There is rasi parivartan yoga between lord of 9 
and ten. 


Varshaphala and Timing Events 239 


3. Lagna is aspected by Saturn but also has the 
aspect of its lord Jupiter. 

4. Lord oflagna Jupiter and lord of ten Mercury are 
in Ithasala yoga assuring name and fame. 

5. Moon is having Gajkesari yoga with Jupiter at 
almost same degrees. 

Award of Bharat Ratna in March 1998 


Annual Chart 


for 
1997 


Sun :0 ° 14’Moon: | ° 56Mars: 17° 53’Mercury: 12° 22 ' 

Jupiter 19° 00 Venus 11° 45', SAT 24° 50" Rahu 25° 31' 
In this horoscope we see Ithasala Yoga between 

10 Lord Mars and 11 lord Venus. 

2. Dr. Rabindra Nath Tagore 7.5.1861, 2:27 AM 


Lagna : 4° 40', Sun :24 ° 20', Moon : 20 ° 31, Mars:0 ° 09', 
Mercury: 7° 51' Jupiter: 25° 52' :Venus 23° 05' Saturn : 
10° 44’ Rahu 24° 50°" 


240 Varshaphala 


Poet and Philosopher -First Asian to get Nobel Prize for 
Literature in 1913 ; Founder of Shantiniketan which 
later on became Visvabharati University. He wrote 
national anthem of both India and Bangladesh. 

Main Features: 

1. Saraswati Yoga 

2. Sun Mercury and Venus in the 2nd house. Sun is 
exalted. This is combination for poets and musicians. 

3. Lagna lord exalted in the 5m house a Rajyoga of a 
high order. 

3. Rasi Parivartan between lagna and 5m lord Moon 
and Jupiter. 

5. Lagna lord Jupiter aspecting its own house. 

6. Karkansh Lagna is Aquarius. It and the 10m from 
it is aspected by Mercury, Venus Sun . Sun is 
exalted. Mercury is fame giving. 

He got Nobel Prize for Literature in 1913 

The annual chart for the year 1912 is as follows 


27-42 | La 
i g Ve Sat Mar 


Lag 9°09° 
Ven 8°26' 
Sun 24°20' 
Mer 19°17' 


10th lord Saturn in 2 aspected by 9th and 12m 
lord Jupiter. 9m is luck and 12th is abroad. 
Moon lord of 4 in 10 aspecting its own house of 
popularity 4. 

3. 5m lord of high intelligence and fame exalted in 
lagna with lord of 2 and 7. Lagna lord Mars and 
5th lord Sun in Poorna ithasala. 


Varshaphala and Timing Events 241 


4. 7m lord in one, fame giving combination. 

5. Saturn in Bhava chart in lagna aspecting its 
own 10th house. 

6. Pooran Ithasala between lord of 4 Moon in 10m 
and Venus lord of 7 and 2 in Lagna. 

7.  Ithasala between Moon lord Of 4 and Sun lord of Sth. 

Death of Dr. Rabindra Nath Tagore. 


He died in 1941. Annual Chart is as follows 


Lagna: 7° 58', Sun :24° 20', Moon : 14° 14', Mars: 1° 39', 

Mercury 26° 56' Jupiter: 25° 52' :Venus 23° 05' Saturn : 

10' 44’ Rahu 24' 50’, 

Main Features: 

1. Sign rising 7m of the birth Chart. 

2. Lagna and Moon in Rahu- Ketu axis aspected by 
Mars lord of 8 from 6. 


3. Sun and lagna lord Mercury in 8» with death 
inflicting Saturn lord of 6. 


Rahu, Jupiter and Sun at same degrees. 


5. Moon having Ithasla with Saturn lord of 6 in 8. 
DEATH OF FATHER 

The father of Pt. JL Nehru. Moti Lal Nehru died 

on 6,2.1931. 


The dasha running in the birth chart was of Venus 


242 Varshaphala 


Mercury. Let us first scrutinize the birth chart of JL 
Nehru whether this event of death of father is reflected or 
not 

In the birth chart of Nehru Venus and Mercury are in 
the 4:. house which is 8 from 9, house of father and 12% 
from Sun which is placed in the 5 house. 

Now let us see the position in the annual chart for 
the Year 1930 
JL Nehru: Annual Horoscope for 16.11.1930. 11.21 AM 


muntha 
10 Sat 
9 Sun 
Asd 9 14 Ven 


8 Mer 


XK 


Lagna9 ° 14, Sun0° 16’, Moon 6° 10", Mars 18° 03', Mercury 5° 
35', Jupiter (R) 27° 31', Venus 10° 36' (R), Saturn 15° 49". 
Rahu 29° 08’. 


Main Features : 

1. In this house 9m house of father is badly 
afflicted. It contains waning Moon in Rahu / 
Ketu axis aspected by Saturn from the 12th 
house. The rasi of Moon Cancer is occupied by 
Mars. 

2. 9th lord Mercury is also 6h lord and is with 8m 
lord Sun. 

3. The 2nd from Sun is Saturn . The 8 from Sun is 
Mercury who is with Sun. 

4. Muntha is in the 12th with Saturn. 


Varshaphala and Timing Events 243 


5. There is ithasal between Mercury and Venus. Mercury 
is 9 lord and Venus is 2nd lord from 9th. 


6. Venus and Mercury are making ithasala with 
Mars who is 8m lord from 9%. Mars is debilitated. 


Death of Father of Indira Gandhi, JL Nehru 27 - 5- 1964. 


In the birth chart she was running dasha of Jupiter 
Venus.Jupiter is 2n1 lord from Sun, karka for father and 
Venus is 8® lord from 9», house of father and 7 lord from 
sun. 

Annual Chart for Indira Gandhi 1963 


Lagna 21° 36', Sun 4° 08', Moon 20° 20' Mars 25° 30', Mer 
12° 58', Jupiter (R) 16° 34’Vehus 25° 19', Saturn 23 °52', 
Rahu20° 12°. 


See the following features in the annual horoscope 
1. Lagna lord Venus in 7th with Mars & Sun. 

2. Lagna afflicted by Mars, and Sun. 

3. Moon in 8th with Ketu. 

4. Sun afflicted by Mars. 
3 


Death of Feroz Gandhi, father of Sanjay Gandhi, 
9.9.1960 © heart attack. 


244 Varshaphala 


Birth Chart of Sanjay Gandhi 


Sr su 
Me 
8 Ket 

Lag 


Sun Me 


Asd 0 ° 40', Sun 28 ° 27', Moon 12 ° 29’ Mars 4 ° 24', 
Mer 8° 19’, Jupiter 13° 53' Ven 24° 40', Sat 15° 14’, 
Rahu 17° 58’. 


In the birth chart ( See chart above) it was the 
dasha of Venus Saturn. Venus is in the 10th house 
which is second from 9th house of father and 
represents Marka for him.Venus is with Jupiter 
3rd and 12th lord. Third house is 7th from 9th 
and hence Marka for father. 12th House is in 
any case house of termination. Saturn is in the 9th 
house from Sun, karka for father. It is a Prashari 
principle that events relating to father should be seen 
both from lagna and the Sun’. K.N. Rao in Nehru 
Dynasty. 


Sanjay Gandhi 
14.12.01946 
9:27 AM 
Dethi 


In transit Saturn, retrograde was in Sagittarius 
and had passed over aspecting his natal Sun and was 
now aspecting his ninth house. Mars was in Gemini 
was also aspected the 9th house while Moon from 
Pisces had aspecting the ninth house when 
Feroz Gandhi breathed his last and died of 
fatal heart attack. Rahu was conjunct with 
Sun. The longitude of Rahu was 22° 04' and that of 
Sun 23° 10°. 


Varshaphala and Timing Even ts 245 


See the transit Chart for 9th September 1960 
Sat (R) 
oa es % 
} 9 
: Transit 
Rah 
M 
=| | = 


Horoscope 
Sanjay Gandhi 


Ascendant 29° 49': Sun 28° 27': Moon 20 ° 48: Mars 14 ° 20’: 
Mercury 7 ° 39'(R) Jupiter 21 ° 33': Venus 14 ° 30°: Saturn 
14 ° 06’: Rahu 6 ° 


In the annual chart Saturn, lord of nine (father), 
is in the 8th. Saturn is also lord of 10, second from 
9 representing death of father. Sun karka for father 
is afflicted by Jupiter, lord of eight and 11, Malefic 
Mars lord of 12 and 7 and Mercury lord of 8th from 
Sun, This is aspected by Moon lord of 3, which is 7 
from nine. 


Ninth lord is Saturn and lagna and 6th lord is 
Venus. There is complete Ithasala between the two. 
Venus is in the 6th and Saturn is in the 8th. 


246 Varshaphala 


4. Death of Mother 


See the annual Horoscope of Rajiv Gandhi for 1984 
and the closeness of degrees of Moon, Rahu and 
Mars. 


5. Death of wife Kamla Nehru wife of JL Nehru 
died in 1934 


Annual Chart for JL Nehru 1933. 


Sat Ket 


: ‘ 
Mar | Sun M 
OX 


Ascendant 22° 35': Sun 0° 16', Moon 7° 20', Mars 4 ° 34’, 
Mercury 7 ° 09’, Jupiter 21° 04’, Venus 17° 11’, Saturn 
17°39', 


Main features 


1933 


1. Venus karka for wife and lord of lagna and 
eight with Mars, Marka lord of 2nd and 7 
house. 


2. Lord of 7 Mars in Pap Kartari Yoga. 


3. Saturn aspecting Moon . Moon and Saturn is 
square and in ithasala. 


4. Muntha is in six aspected by Mars & saturn. 


Year lord is Venus and is in the grip of Mars in 
Pap Kartari Yoga. 


1. 


Varshaphala and Timing Events 247 


Marriage of Sanjay Gandhi 29.9. 1974 


Annual Chart 1973 


Lagna 4 ° 20', Sun 28 ° 27, Moon 24 ° 24', Mars 3 ° 47', 
Mercury 14° 11', Jupiter 17° 12', Venus 10° 48', Sat 8° 
30', Rah 5° 22'. 

Main Features 


i 


There is ithasala between Mercury the 7m lord 
and lagna lord Jupiter. 


There is ithasala between lagna lord Jupiter and 
Venus karka for marriage. 


Muntha is in auspicious 5th house with fifth 
lord of romance. 


The 7m house in Rahu Ketu axis with Saturn which 
means marriage out of caste. Sanjay as a 
Kashmiri Brahmin married a Sikh girl. 


The 7m lord is Mercury is in the 12m house of bed 
pleasures and foreign connection. It is with 9 
lord of travel and fortune Sun .Sun shows 
authoritative and confident behaviour. It is 
aspected by 5m lord Mars of romance. Maneka 
Gandhi wife of Sanjay Gandhi had all these 
attributes. Her brother and family are settled 
abroad. 


248 


1. 


Varshaphala 


BIRTH OF CHILDREN 


JL Nehru-Birth of daughter, Indira Gandhi 
November 19, 1917, Allahabad. 


Annual Horoscope J. L. Nehru, 1916. 


Annual Chart 
J.L. Nehru 


1916 


Lag 28° 48', Sun 00°: 16', Moon 5° 49', Mars 25° 14', Mer 25° 
22', Jupiter 4 ° 45', Venus 22 ° 22', Saturn 7 ° 59', Rahu 28° 


49' 


Main Features : 


1. 


Jupiter's aspect on the 5"*house. 

Saturn' aspect on the 5m lord Venus. 

Moon! ithasala with Jupiter. 

Moon's ithasala with 9m lord Saturn. 

Moon! bhauishya ithasala with 5m lord Venus. 


Munthain the auspicious 5m house’ with lagna 
lord Mercury and aspected by Jupiter 


Muntha lord is Venus, debilitated but having 
neechabhanga Rajyoga. 


Birth of Son to Indira Gandhi,Sanjay Gandhi - 
14.12. 1946, 9 27 AM Delhi 


Varshaphala and Timing Events 249 


Annual Chart for 1945 


8°.06', Mars8°41', Mercury 

26° 16', Jupiter 25° 03', Venus 16° 26', Saturn 1 ° 36’, 

Rahu 8° 36’. 

Main Features 

1. Saturn as 5 lord aspecting 5“ house. 

2. Jupiter karka for children aspecting 5” house. 

3. Muntha lord Mars is in 11 aspecting 5th house. 

4. Moon is exalted in the 9th aspected by Lagna lord 
Mercury. 

5. Lord of the year is Mercury who as lagna lord is 


good and is in Poorn Ithasala with Jupiter karka 
for children. 


PERIOD OF NATIONAL HUMILIATION 
REFLECTED IN THE HOROSCOPES OF RULERS. 


India suffered a humiliating defeat at the hands 
of Chinese in 1962. It was a personal defeat of Nehru 
whose whole fabric of foreign policy of universal 
brotherhood, non alignment and Hindi Chini Bhai Bhai 
fell in shambles and he was forced to sadly remark 
that we are still living in a world where bigger fish 
eats smaller fish. It was end of Nehruvian idealism. 
He never recovered from this shock. 


250 


Varshaphala 


Annual Chart for Nehru 1961 


Main Featunes: 


1. 


2. 
3 
4 


8. 


Lagna lord in the 2na debilitated under Rahu Ketu axis 
with lord of 8 Moon and Marka Saturn. 

No benefics in kendras. 

No malefics with the exception of Sun in 3, 6, and 11. 

Sun with Venus lord of six and with Mercury having 
kendra adhipati dosha 

Moon with Marka Saturn and in Rahu Ketu axis. It is 
also with lagna lord - some relief. 

Muntha is in adverse 8 under Rahu / Ketu axis and 
aspected by Saturn 

Mutha pati is Moon who too is afflicted. 

‘Mars in the 12:, show foreign intrigues against the 
country’ - KN Rao 


Now see the Annual Chart for Independent India 1961- 


Horoscope 


1961. 


Varshaphala and Timing Events 251 


Lagna 12° 22’, Sun 27° 59’, Moon 29° 34’, Mars 4° 59’, 
Mercury 27° 42’, Jupiter R 6° 27' /Venus 18° 56', Saturn 
1°25R 

Main Features 

4. Sun with lord of 8 Mercury and aspected by Saturn. 

2. Moon in the grip of Rahu Ketu and going into 
Rasi Anta ithasala with Mars lord of lagna and six. 

3. Muntha is in the 9th house aspected by Saturn 
and 8th lord Mercury. 

4. Saturn is retrograde. It is moving towards 
Sagittarius and will have ithasala with Moon. 

5. Lord ofthe Year is Mars, which is weak. The result 
of which is loss of wealth, many troubles, and 
disgrace. Robberies, enemies, scandal and 
disappointments. 

Dwi- Janama Year or The Year of Second Birth 
When the birth lagna becomes same or recurs in 

the annual Horoscope, it is called as Dwi- Janama or 

Dwi-Janama Year .It is believed that such a year is 

normally adverse and leads to sickness, loss and 

reverses in life. However while giving predictions only 
on the basis of Dwi - Janama one should be cautious. 

If the dasha running in the birth horoscope is good 

and there are good yogas in the horoscope such 

prediction should not be given. 

The year may prove to be bad if the longitude of 
lagna in the birth chart is same as in the annual 
horoscope. This would still become adverse if Birth 
nakshatra (nakshatra in which Moon is located at 
birth) also recurs in the annual horoscope. 

The major protective forces are lagna lord, Jupiter 
and Moon. They should not be weak in the birth 
horoscope. Their position in 6, 8 and 12 houses is 
especially bad. 

iflord of the year and Muntha lord is also strong 
they provide big protective influence. 

The strength of other benefics is also important. 


the book is supposed to end here according 
to contents 


