NOTES ON PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY 


THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM 


(SIDEREAL ASTROLOGY) 


WITH REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC ASTROLOGY 
Part Il 


AS TAUGHT BY PROF. ANTHONY WRITER 


For the students of Jyotisha Bharati 
Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan 
Mumbai 


Prepared by 
Prof. Anthony Writer 
Jyotisha Bharati 
Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan 
Mumbai 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 


Ch. No. 


ASTROLOGY PART II 


TABLE OF CONTENT 


Description Page No. 


THE NODES OF THE MOON — RAHU AND KETU 
Manik Chand Jain on Rahu & Ketu 

RAHU AND KETU :The Great Churners 

Effects of Rahu and Ketu in the Twelve Houses 
Barbara Pijan Lama: What are Rahu & Ketu? 


7) RAHU — THE ASCENDING NODE 
OF THE MOON: 

Vedic Symbolism of Rahu 

Rahu in the 12 Rashis 

Rahu in the 12 bhavas 


8) KETU- THE DESCENDING NODE 
OF THE MOON 

Vedic Symbolism of Ketu 

Benefic effects 

Negative effects 

Ketu at different levels of awareness 

Positive management of Ketu's malefic effects 

Ketu gives the results of His lord and co-occupants 

Ketu The Great Withholder 

Ketu, the Spiritual rejuvenator 

Transit of Ketu in the Radix Chart 

Ketu in the 12 Rashis 

Ketu in the 12 Bhavas 


PLANETS AND PHYSIOLOGY 


SIGNIFICATION OF PLANETS 


OTHER GENERAL CHARACTERISTICS 
OF PLANETS 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 


Ch. No. 


ASTROLOGY PART II 


TABLE OF CONTENT 
Description Page No. 


SHADBALA 

- Signification 

- Calculation 

- Types of Shadbala 

- Shad Bala — Sthana Bala 

- Dig Bala 

- Shad Bala - Bala Summary 
- Use of Shadbala 


DIVISIONAL CHARTS OR VARGAS 
D-2 Divisional Chart or the Hora 

D/3 Divisional Chart or the Dreskhana Chart 
D/7 or Saptamsh Chart 

D/ 9 Chart or Naavamsha 

D/10 OR Dashamsa 

D/30- Trishansh Chart 


NAKSHATRAS IN ASTROLOGY 
MATRIMONY:COMPATIBILITY ANALYSIS 
OR GUNA MILAN 

CLASSICAL JYOTISH / VEDIC ASTROLOGY 


TREATISES/BOOKS/TEXTS 


BIBLIOGRAPHY 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


THE NODES OF THE MOON — RAHU AND KETU 


BPHS, Ch. 3 [Planetary Characters and Description], Shloka 30: 
“Rahu has smoky appearance with a blue-mix physique. 

He resides in forests and is horrible. 

He is windy in temperament and is intelligent. Ketu is akin to Rahu.” 


BPHS Ch. 3, Shloka 41-44: 

“Rahu rules the outcaste while Ketu governs mixed caste. ... 
Rahu denotes multi-colored clothes and Ketu rags. 

Lead and blue gem belong to Rahu and Ketu.” 


RAHU & KETU : THE NORTH & SOUTH 
NODES OF THE South MOON 


node of 


| | 
ee 
== 
: r ee Pee 
= 
1, | 
", a =o 
=oa 
oT oe 
~ / a oe a 7 . 
a 


a 
BPHS, Chapter 3, verse 30:” Rahu has smoke like blue body, lives in forests and is 
horrible. He is windy in temperament and is intelligent. Like Rahu is Ketu.” 


The Moons apparent path intersects the ecliptic obliquely at two points called the nodes. 
The point where the Moon crosses the ecliptic from south to north is called the ascending 
node or Rahu, where it crosses the ecliptic from north to south is called descending node or 
Ketu. These two points are 180 degrees apart and their movement is constantly retrograde, 
meaning, against the normal direction of movement of planets. Rahu and Ketu are given 


special status and considered as planets in Indian astrology. Rahu and Ketu take 
approximately eighteen years and ten days to complete one round of the zodiac . 


In Hindu mythology, Rahu is a snake that swallows the sun or the moon causing eclipses. 
He is depicted in art as a dragon with no body riding a chariot drawn by eight black horses. 
Rahu is one of the navagrahas (nine planets) in Vedic astrology. The rahu kala is considered 


inauspicious. 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 5 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


According to legend, during the Samudra manthan, the asura Rahu drank some of the 
divine nectar. But before the nectar could pass his throat, Mohini (the female avatar of 
Vishnu) cut off his head. The head, however, remained immortal. It is believed that this 
immortal head occasionally swallows the sun or the moon, causing eclipses. Then, the sun or 
moon passes through the opening at the neck, ending the eclipse. 


Astronomically, Rahu and Ketu denotes the two points of intersection of the paths of the 
Sun and the Moon as they move on the celestial sphere. Therefore, Rahu and Ketu are 
respectively called the north and the south lunar nodes. The fact that Eclipses occur when 
Sun and Moon are at one of these points gives rise to the myth of the swallowing of the Sun. 


Surya Grahan, solar eclipse, is widely mentioned in the Holy Scriptures of Hinduism. There 
is also an interesting myth regarding the occurrence of Surya Grahan. It happened during 
the Samdura Manthan (churning of ocean) episode in the Puranas. Rahu (Demon) and 
Mohini, an incarnation of Lord Vishnu, are the main characters in the incident. 


The Amrit (elixir) that was obtained from churning the ocean was cunningly stolen by 
Ausras (Demons). Lord Vishnu took the form of Mohini, a beautiful damsel, to win back the 
Amrit. She achieved her mission by enamoring the Asuras, they fell for her beauty and 
handed over the Amrit to her. 


Mohini returned to the Devas and started distributing it. Devas sat in a line and mohini 
gave a portion to each one of them. Rahu, an Asura, who found out that they were tricked 
took the form a Deva and sat in the line between Chandra (Moon God) and Surya (Sun 
God). The asura Rahu drank some of the divine nectar. 


When Mohini approached Rahu, Chandra and Surya realized that Rahu was not one 
among them and soon identified him as an Asura. Mohini soon severed the head of Rahu 
which flew into the sky. The head, however, remained immortal and is called Rahu , while 
the rest of the body became Ketu. It is believed that this immortal head occasionally 
swallows the sun or the moon, causing eclipses. Rahu is depicted in the form of a Snake 
and continued to live and decided to avenge Surya and Chandra. 


Thus, periodically Rahu engages in a war with Surya and Chandra. The Chandra Grahan 
(Lunar eclipse) and Surya Grahan (Solar eclipse) takes place when Rahu gobbles up Moon 
and Sun respectively. Surya and Chandra then fights to free themselves. 


Ketu is the Lord of Descending/South lunar node. Ketu is generally referred to as a 
"shadow" planet. He is considered as Tail of the Demon Snake. It is believed to have a 
tremendous impact on human lives and also the whole creation. In some special 
circumstances it helps someone achieve the zenith of fame. He is Tamas in nature and 
represents supernatural influences. 


Phaladeepika, Adhyaya II, Sloka 35 : “Lead and an old garment belong to Rahu while a 
mud vessel and a mixed cloth of variegated colour have been allotted to Ketu.Mercury, 
Saturn and Venus are the friends of Rahu as well as Ketu. Mars is natural to them. The rest 
are enemies.” 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


Manik Chand Jain on Rahu & Ketu in Predictive Astrology, page 82, writer: 
“Rahu has the influence of Jupiter conjunction Venus. 


It gives intense appreciation and respect for the area by house where Rahu is located or 
transiting. 


There is popularity in this place with optimism and cheerfulness. This is a lucky place. 
.... Ketu has the influence of a Mars conjunct Saturn. 


In Ketu, too much of the Saturn accent can produce fear and hold the Mars action back. 
This can give poor timing. 


Mars represents energy and Saturn, a cycle of time. With the Combination, we need to 
take stock of the issues involved, and do something about them. There is an ambition for 
power where Ketu is located by house. 


The trick is to use the energy of Mars in the right amount by the disciplining of Saturn in 
an area of selfless service rather than over-possessiveness.” 


Barbara Pijan Lama: What are Rahu & Ketu? 


“Rahu & Ketu are two psycho-magnetic zones opposite each other, on our Moon's orbit 
path around Earth. They reside where the Moon's path intersects the plane of the 
ecliptic, called the "rashi chakra" ["circle of signs"]. 


e Rahu is the "North Node of the Moon" = Dragon's Head = Caput Draconis. 
e Ketu is the "South Node of the Moon" = Dragon's Tail = Cauda Draconis. 


Rahu, Ketu, Dhuma, are called "chhaaya grahaa" or "shadow planets" because they have 
similar effects to planets, but they have no gravity or mass. ["'Planet" means 
"wanderer".| 


Rahu/Ketu (who work always as a pair) move "backwards" through the rashi chakra, in 
direction opposite to Moon and Sun.” 


Barbara Pijan Lama: The destruction and rejuvenation of the human body: 


- Rahu destroys the physical body while Ketu creates the physical body, Rahu is 
associated with intense desires (including obsessions) which are energetic overloads for 
the physical body, thus Rahu is a destructive force. 


- Ketu actually creates and maintains the physical body by anti-doting or negating 
the effects of desire. 


Das Goravani, in his writing about the nodes says: 


"Every planet has two nodes relative to Earth. 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 7 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


However, due to our Moon's extraordinary proximity to Earth, the Moon's nodes are said 
by the ancient rishis to have especially powerful implications for life on our little blue 
planet. 


Each planet has got its own ascending and descending nodes except the Sun.... 


Generally the point of the Zodiac, where a planet crosses from the south to north latitude 
is the ascending node and the point of the Zodiac where a planet crosses from the north 
latitude to south latitude is called the descending node." 


RAHU AND KETU :The Great Churners 


Rahu is called "the great churner of the oceans of milk". Rahu is expansive, like Jupiter, 
but in chaotic and weird ways. 


Rahu releases long-suppressed desires from past lives. Rahu is the excitement of desire - 
usually desire for something that is very new, forbidden, unprecedented, or challenges 
established tradition. After Rahu's desire is released and made manifest the excitement 
fades as yang swings to yin and Ketu induces apathy. Ketu has "been there, done that" 
attitude which is often the mask for exhaustion and frustration. 


Rahu is our powerful to brings past-life desires and fantasies into material form in this 
life. Rahu is the force of passion and desire. A person with a strong Rahu is considered to 
have built up lots of tantric powers from previous incarnations which grant the spiritual 
power and permission to change stored subconscious imagery into conscious imagery, and 
through the power of desire, to manifest that image on the material plane. I.e., to have a 
five-senses, real-life experience rather than just a daydream or a hope. Rahu is very 
powerful because desire is a very powerful thing!! 


Ketu is Rahu's diametrically opposite force. Rahu is permissive and expansive like 
Venus and Jupiter, but Ketu is restrictive and like Shani and Mars. 


Whereas Rahtu is passionate and desirous, Ketu is detached and meditative. The house, 
degree, sign, aspects, and other characteristics of Ketu show imagery that has already 
been manifested by Rahu, that we are finished desiring and now wish to separate from 
ourselves. 


Wherever Ketu is, there the person is detached, impassionate, cool-tempered, and 
unconcerned with the development of those matters. Ketu is a manifestation of Shri 
Ganesha, the elephant-headed god who is cheerful, slow-moving, and above it all. 

Rahu gives insatiable yearning hunger, while Ketu gives detachment, disconnection, and 
despair. Cycling between these two nodes, during intense periods, one may temporarily feel 
like the victim of an unstoppable boomerang cycle of primal need and utter abandonment. 


Rahu's attachment cycle to experience, possess, and control reaches its natural extreme; 
then starts Ketu's reverse detachment cycle creating despair, impossibility to be loved or 
accepted, unworthiness proven by rejection. This cycle can make a person absolutely 
miserable on the ego level. 


The Signs in which Rahu and Ketu are less weird: 


Rahu and Ketu are always weird. 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 8 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


e Ruling or occupying good houses like 1, 5 or 9 doesn't make them any less weird. 
Rahu-Ketu can be helpful if they are positioned this way: 

1.No aspects on either node from Mars or Saturn 

2.Rahu acts better when Saturn is good by house and sign ("Shani vat Rahu") 

3.Ketu acts better when Mars is good by house and sign ("Bhaum vat Ketu cha") 

4.When yuti either a yoga-karaka planet or the 10th house ruler 

5.Rahu behaves better in Virgo and best in Gemini 


6.Ketu behaves better in Pisces and best in Sagittarius 


The Nodal People 


"Very nodal people" are: 
e Radix nodes in lagna 
e Radix nodes yuti Chandra 
e Navamsha nodes in D-9 lagna 
e Radix nodes conjunct navamsha lagna 
e Navamsha nodes conjunct Radix lagna 


"Very nodal people" will be involved with "foreign-ness" to a dramatic degree in their 
lives. The distinctive foreign components may be foreign ideas, foreign spouse or 
romance, foreign business or travel, or foreign adoption children, foreign appearance. 


Rahu-Ketu transits essentially Reorganize the Personality, by opening the consciousness 
to a previously undetected level of past-life information. This information arises while 
reconnecting (usually very intensely) with a person, place, or knowledge base from a 
previous incarnation. (Thus the obsessive connection to things which are "foreign" in this 
life.) 


Rahu/Ketu effects are felt much more strongly during periods of Rahu or Ketu 
"Triple-whammy" effects can be predicted for the native whose nodes rise in either radix or 
navamsha, when their Vimshottari Dasha gives a Rahu/Ketu bhukti. This period will 
dramatically change the individual's definition of him/herself, due to new psychic 
information, which breaks through from the subconscious storage zone. 


Rahu-Ketu transiting the Radix affects the physical body/Material Plane. For example, 
nodes crossing the 1/7 axis in Radix may generate a pregnancy or induce surgery. 


Rahu-Ketu transiting the navamsha affects the astral body (relationships). For example, 
modes crossing the 1/7 axis or a nodal return within navamsha often bring a dramatic 
relationship. Often there is a long psychic build-up period, such a partners dreaming 
about each other before meeting, or a strong but taboo attraction, or other dramatic 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 9 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


circumstances which are not so much in the physical body, but predominantly on the 
astral. 


Bhrigu Sutras, Chapter II, 8 Effects of Rahu and Ketu in the Twelve Houses 
Rahu and Ketu in the First House 


Sutras 1-4-If Rahu or Ketu is in the first house the native's wife will give birth to a still born 
child. If Rahu or Ketu is in Aries, Taurus or Cancer, the native will be kind hearted and 
fond of enjoyments. If Rahu or Ketu is aspected by a malefic there will be marks on the face 
(probably of small pox). 

Other Views 

Brihat Jataka and Saravali have not dealt with the effects of Rahu and Ketu in the various 
houses. 

Phaldeepika: Rahu-The native will be short lived but wealthy and powerful but he will 
suffer from disease in the upper part of his body. 

Ketu-The native will be ungrateful unhappy, backbiter, and moving in the society of 
undesirable persons. He will have an afflicted body and will be deprived of his position. 
Chamatkar Chintamani: Rahu-The native will destroy the power of his enemies. He will 
remain under the influence of others. He will remain detached in spite of having many 
wives. 

Ketu-The native will prove troublesome to the members of his family. He will suffer from 
windy troubles. 

Rahu or Ketu in the Second House 

Sutras 5-6-If Rahu or Ketu is in the second house, the native will be poor, will suffer from 
diseases of the body and loss of children, and will be of dark. complexion. If Rahu or Ketu is 
associated with a malefic the native will have a mark on the lips. 

Other Views 

Phaladeepika: Rahu-The native will say words which convey double meaning. He will suffer 
from diseases of the mouth. He will be of angry temperament but rich on account of favour 
from the king. 

Ketu-The native will be devoid of wealth and education. He will indulge in vulgar speech, 
have defective eye sight and will depend on others for food. 

Chamatkar Chintamani: Rahu-The native will face destruction of his family. He will be 
fearless but a liar. He will destroy his enemies to save his wealth. 

Ketu-The native will suffer from diseases of the mouth. He will have bitterness with the 
king (Government). He will suffer loss of wealth and will have troubles from the members 
of his family. If Ketu is in Aries, Gemini or Virgo, the native will enjoy all comforts. 

Rahu or Ketu in the Third House 

Sutras 7-8-If Rahu or Ketu is in the third the native will have abundance of oil seeds of the 
type of mustard, til, sesamum etc. If Rahu or Ketu is associated with a benefic, there will be 
a mark on the neck. 

Other Views 

Phaladeepika: Rahu-The native will be respected and will have inimical relations with his 
brothers. He will be wealthy, long lived and determined. 

Ketu-The native will be wealthy, powerful, long lived and reputed. He will enjoy company 
of his wife and will have abundant agricultural products. He will suffer loss of brothers. 
Chamatkar Chintamani: Rahu-The native will be very courageous. Ketu-The enemies will 
be vanquished. There will be controversies. Great prosperity will be enjoyed. There will be 
no friends. 

Rahu or Ketu in the Fourth House 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 10 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


Sutras 9-10-The native will own many kinds of ornaments, will have two wives and will 
serve others. If Rahu or Ketu is. associated with a malefic, the native's mother will be in 
distress but this will not happen if there is association with a benefic. 

Other Views 

Phaldeepika: Rahu-The native will be stupid, troublesome, short lived and seldom happy. 
Ketu-The native will live in the house of others. He will suffer loss of his mother, land, 
happiness and grain fields. He may have to go away from his native place. 

Chamatkar Chintamani: Rahu-The mother of the native will be sickly. Rahu in Aries, 
Cancer or Virgo, gives beneficial results. The native will then become a king. 

Ketu-The native will be devoid of happiness from mother and friends. He will not stay in his 
own house for long. His paternal property will be destroyed. 

Rahu or Ketu in the Fifth House 

Sutras 11-13-The native will have no children or suffer loss of children due to wrath of the 
Serpent God. He will have children after conducting Pooja of Naga Pratima. The native will 
suffer from windy diseases and indulge in sinful deeds. He will suffer from wrath of the king 
and will live in undesirable places. 

Other Views 

Phaladeepika: Rahu-The native will be childless, hard hearted and will suffer from stomach 
ailments. 

Ketu-The native will suffer from loss of children. He will be of evil nature and unwise. He 
may also suffer from 'Pishacha Badha’'. 

Chamatkar Chintamani: Rahu-The native will get a son. He will always be worried on 
account -of his wife. He will suffer from stomach ailments. 

Ketu-The native will suffer from stomach ailments. He will not get many children. In spite 
of being courageous he will remain dependent on others. 

Rahu or Ketu in the Sixth House 

Sutras 14-16-The native will be tolerant and very happy. If Moon is associated with Rahu or 
Ketu, the native will have sexual contact with ladies of king's family. He will be poor and a 
thief. 

Other Views 

Phaldeepika: Rahu-The native will be wealthy and long lived. He will suffer from diseases 
of the anus. He will also suffer from enemies and from the evil effect of malefic planets. 
Ketu-The native will be generous, full of good qualities, determined, famous and a person in 
authority. 

Chamatkar Chintamani: Rahu-The native's enemies will be destroyed. He will be powerful, 
virile and wealthy. 

Ketu-The native will suffer loss of reputation on account of his maternal uncle. He will own 
cattle like cows etc. He will be healthy but narrow minded. 

Rahu or Ketu in the Seventh House 

Sutras 17-21-The native will have two wives. The first wife will die and the second will 
suffer from tumour. If Rahu or Ketu is associated with a malefic the native will suffer from 
a disease called 'Ganda mala’. This will not happen if they are associated with a benefic. 
The native will generally have two wives but there will be only one wife if Rahu or Ketu is in 
conjunction with a benefic. 

Other Views 

Phaldeepika: Rahu-The native will be of independent nature and will incur loss of wealth 
on account of his association with women. He will be a widower and will suffer from loss of 
virility. 

Ketu-The native will suffer from humiliation. He will indulge in affairs with unchaste 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 11 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


women and will be separated from his own wife. He will suffer from intestinal disorders. 
Chamatkar Chintamani Rahu-The native will suffer loss of wife. 

Ketu-He will suffer loss of wealth and there will be danger to his life from watery places. 
His wife and children will be sickly. If Ketu is in Scorpio, the native will always be happy. 
Rahu or Ketu in the Eighth House 

Sutras 22-23-If Rahu or Ketu is in the eighth house, the native will be very sickly and the 
life span of the native will be of 32 years. It will be of 45 years if Rahu or Ketu is associated 
with a benefic. It will be of 60 years if the lord of the eighth house is strong or is in his sign 
of exaltation. 

Other Views 

Phaldeepika: Rahu-The native will be in distress, will suffer from rheumatic troubles, will 
have few children, will be short lived and will indulge in evil deeds. 

Ketu-The native will be separated from his near and dear ,ones, will be quarrelsome and 
short lived. He will get injured from weapons and will face obstacles in all his undertakings. 
Chamatkar Chintamani: Rahu-The native will suffer from windy troubles. He will be 
deprived of paternal property and will be declared as an outcaste by his relations. He will 
be respected by the king and learned men but members of his family will have little regard 
for him. 

Ketu-The native will suffer from piles and will have danger to life from falling down from a 
horse. He will be short of funds but there will be accumulation of wealth if Ketu is in 
Scorpio, Virgo or Aries. 

Rahu or Ketu in the Ninth House 

Sutra 24-If Rahu or Ketu is in the ninth house, the native will be childless, will have 
intimacy with low-born women, will depend on others for his livelihood and will be 
irreligious. 

Other Views 

Phaldeepika Rahu-The native will speak with bitterness and will not perform any 
charitable deeds but will be a leader of village or town. 

Ketu-The native will be sinfully disposed, will perform un-pious deeds, will be fatherless, 
unfortunate and poor. 

Chamatkar Chintamani Rahu-The native will be full of good qualities, fond of pilgrimages 
and kind hearted. 

Ketu-The native will be anxious to get children and will earn wealth with the help of non- 
Hindus. 

Rahu or Ketu in the Tenth House 

Sutras 25-28-The native will have sexual contacts with widows and will live in slums. He will 
live in good places if Rahu or Ketu is associated with a benefic. The native will also be 
interested in poetry. 

Other Views. 

Phaldeepika Rahu-The native will have few children, will not perform good deeds but will 
be fearless and famous. 

Ketu-The native will indulge in sinful deeds but he will be famous for his courage. 
Chamatkar Chintamani Rahu-The native will waste money on drinking and do cruel deeds. 
He will prefer the company of non-Hindus and enjoy beautiful women. 

Ketu-The native will be unfortunate and will live in distress. He will have no happiness 
from father. He will destroy his enemies if Ketu is in Aries, Virgo or Scorpio. 

Rahu or Ketu in the Eleventh House 

Sutras 29-30-The native will be blessed with children and be wealthy. 

Other Views 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 12 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


Phaldeepika Rahu-The native will be wealthy and long lived but will have few children. He 
will suffer from ear troubles. 

Ketu-The native will accumulate wealth and will enjoy all kinds of comforts. He will get 
success in all his undertakings. 

Chamatkar Chintamani-Rahu-The native will acquire wealth through non-Hindus. He will 
have happiness from children. 

Ketu-The native will have all kinds of gains. He will be fortunate, learned and well dressed. 
His issues will be unfortunate. 

Rahu or Ketu in the Twelfth House 

Sutras 31-32-The native will have few children and suffer from eye troubles. He will go to 
hell after death. 

Phaldeepika Rahu-The native will incur lot of wasteful expenditure and indulge in sinful 
deeds. 

Ketu-The native will commit sins secretly and incur expenditure for evil purposes. He will 
also suffer from eye troubles. 


Uttarakalamrita gives following further information about Rahu and Ketu:- 

(1) Rahu and Ketu - if endowed with strength, produce effects similar to the planet owning 
an inauspicious house and in whose house they are posited or with whom they are 
conjoined. The lords ofKendra and Kona houses, if not conjoined with the two nodes, 
produces beneficial results. The effects will be contrary, if they be other node these two 
nodes in spite of their malefic nature becoming benefic by virtue of their position in certain 
houses or association with certain planets. 


(2) If one of the two nodes and the lord of a Trikona be posited in the 9th or 10th, or if one 
of them be in the 9th or the other in the 10th or vice versa, the yoga will cause prosperity to 
the native. Even a conjunction of either of these with the lord of a trikona will prove 
beneficial. In the above circumstances the paras of these two nodes as well as these of the 
planets conjoined with them will prove happy. If there be a planet who is inauspicious 
associated by a sum of Sambhandha (relationship) with either of the nodes, then the Bhukti 
of the yogakarka planet will prove adverse. 


(3) The two planet.- Rahu and Ketu become auspicious when they occupy a Trikona or 
Kendra position or when they are associated with the lord of that particular kendra or kona 
house in which they are posited. They also prove beneficial when they conjoin with the lords 
of any Kendra or Kona house. If the lord of the 9th were to own the 8th or 12th as well, or if 
the lord of 9th and the 10th in the above circumstances were to conjoin with the lords of the 
9th or the 12th, then the auspiciousness of the Yoga is lost. 


9) RAHU — THE ASCENDING NODE OF THE MOON: 

"Caput Draconis - The Dragon's Head" 
UTTARAKALAMRITA M, SECTION 5: Slokas 51-52 Relating to Action, Function or 
Doing of Rahu: (1) Umbrella (2) chowrie (3) kingdom (4) gathering (5) fallacious argument 
(6) a wounding speech (7) one belonging to the lowest caste (8) a wicked, female (9) a vehicle 
bordered on all sides (10) an i religious man (11) gambling (12) strong at twilight (13) 
intrigue with a wicked female (14) going to a foreign country (15) impurity (16) bone (17) 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 13 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


enlargement of spleen (18) false~hood (19) downward look (20) perplexity (21) an emerald 
(22) facing the Southern quarter (23) resorting to outcastes or other low people (24) a bad 
swelling (25) a big forest (26) moving in a contrary direction (27) mountain (28) pain (29) 
staying Outside (30) inclined towards South-west (31) wind (32) phlegm (33) sorrow (34) 
serpent (35) night wind (36) severe (37) long (38) reptile (3 ) reading of dreams (40) travel 
(41) a Muhurta (42) old age (43) a vehicle (14) world of serpents (45) mother (46) father o 
grandfather (47) air (48) an acute or sharp pain (49) catarrh (50) breathing (51) great 
courage (52) forest (53) fortress (54) worshipper (55) wickedness (56) cohabitation with - 
quadrupeds (57) writing of Urdu and (58) harsh --speech. These are ascribed to Rahu. 


UTTARAKALAMRITA MSECTION 6,Sloka 12%-13’2: During the Dasa of Rahu,' when 
he is favourable, he will confer on the native all that is best and desirable, a high position of 
authority, all kinds of virtues and wealth. The person will resort to holy shrines; will 
acquire sacred knowledge and power. If Rahu be untoward, the person will be liable to d 
anger from reptiles, poison, disease and trouble all over the body, danger from missiles and 
fire, worst enmity, a fall from a tree and torments from enemies. 


Phaladeepika , ADHYAYA - II, Sloka 33 : Rahu is black in colour, tall in stature and of a 
low caste; he has got skin-disease; he is a heretic; he has got hic-cough; he speaks falsehood; 
he is cunning; he suffers from leprosy; he reviles others and is devoid of intelligence. 


Jataka Parijata: 
e Rahu has a body black in appearance. 
e [He is represented by] a person of a hundred years. 
e [His stone is] Agate. 
e [His direction is] South-west. 
e [He lingers in] the corners of the house. 


e Rahu causes great fear to men by means of epilepsy, smallpox, halter, flies, 
worms, ghosts, fiends and goblins, and also by leading to suicides by hanging, 
because of diseases resulting in lack of appetite and leprosy. 


e One ought to guess about one's paternal grandfather through Rahu. 


In Mesha, Vrischikha, Kumbha, Kanya, Vrishabha, Kataka, and in the tenth house, from 
the lagna, Rahu has strength. 


Jataka Parijata, Ch. 2, In. 81: 


“Rahu causes great fear to men by means of epilepsy, smallpox, halter, flies, worms, 
ghosts, fiends and goblins, & also by leading to suicides by hanging, because of diseases 
resulting in want of appetite and leprosy.” 


B. V. Raman, Three Hundred Important Combinations. p.211, Bahuputra Yoga: 


Rahu/Shani conjunction, any rashi: 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 14 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


e If Rahu has higher degree, the "shadow" or the shamanic membrane will 
dominate Shani. Shani's job is to keep order. (Shani rules time and space, the 
Law, all structures including Clans and Bones.) The "shadow's" job is to shape- 
shift and show hidden forces. The person will need to find a way to package 
their shamanic knowledge so that conventional society can understand psychic 
truths -- which is a mighty task! Early years are bound to be heavy with social 
criticism, imprisonment, contempt. However with other good planets, person 
might emerge in later years as a powerful authority. The key with this 
combination is *time.* Person must be allowed to mature emotionally, and early 
dashas must support life. 


e If Saturn has higher degree, shamanic perceptions of Rahu are compressed inside 
of Saturn. The combination is classically associated with mental/emotional 
illness. Remember when Peter Pan was robbed of his shadow? He could not find 
himself. Here the shamanic forces are shackled to for forces of social control. 
The person knows they don't fit in to the mainstream, but they are not 
empowered to seek alternative societies - psychic congregations, healing 
networks - which might provide much-needed validation. Compressed visionary 
energy may periodically erupt into anti-social activity. 


Vedic Symbolism of Rahu — the North Node of the Moon 


Many references are found in Hindu Mythology and Vedic spiritual literature about the 
Nodes of the Moon. 


Rahu is also known as Ahi, which means a serpent or dragon, the Sun, the demon Vritra, a 
thief, a scoundrel, or a cloud. In the Vedas Rahu is invoked as a demon named Svarbhanu, 
who devours the luminaries to cause the eclipse. Rahu is also connected with poison used 
both for destructive and regenerative purposes. The regeneration of the Moon after the 
solar eclipse indicates the regenerative power of Rahu. Being the son of a lioness, Rahu has 
the nature and consciousness of the lion. Rahu represents the active or male potency of 
Shakti, the female reproductive power in nature, Durga, the feminine counterpart of Shiva 
also rides a lion. As a serprent, Rahu pervades the entire body of Shiva who controls the 
gods and demons alike. Rahu ws used by the demons as well as the gods in the churning of 
the cosmic ocean. The close association of Lord Shiva and Rahu emphasizes the mystic 
nature of Rahu for the bestowal of inner knowledge. 


Vedc hymns invoke Rahu as “adorned with sandal paste, flowers and an umbrella, of blue 
colour, armed with a sword and shield, seated facing south and ssurrounded by all siddhis.” 
Naga or serpent is also one of the names of Rahu, and the name in the Hindu pantheon of 
the Dragon Sopirit who inhibits the nether world, Patala Loka. The four hands of Rahu 
indicate the instruments with which it manifests itself. 1) A scimitar — a short saber with a 
curved, sharp edged blade broadening from the handle. 2) A spear used for hunting and 
fighting. 3) A shield used to protect oneself. 4) The fourth hand bestows blessings on his 
devotees. 


Rahu is an ever wise deity endowed with extraordinary magic power. He is the presiding 
spirit of the god of the five regions (the four directions of the compass and the centre as the 
fifth), The priucipal function of Rahu is to arouse spiritual awareness by making the 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 15 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


individual aware of his immeasurable latent faculties. Until this understanding dawns the 
individual is troubled by the influence of the graha. 


Rahu rides a chariot of eight horses, who are black in colour and eternally yoked to it. 
Rahu has thirty two sons called Ketus, implying thereby that they are like comets. Rahu 
seated in the chariot signifies the important position it is assigned among the planets. A 
similar status is indicated by assigning to it an umbrella of protection of higher forces. The 
significance of Rahu’s eight horses is found in Hindu mythology where similar allusions are 
made regarding Shiva where there are eight incarnations of Shiva to enable the cosmic 
manifestation to proceed to the right course. They represent the eight aspects of creative 
energy. They are 


1) Sharva to go or to kill 


2) Bhava birth or acquisition 

3) Rudra dreadful 

4) Ugra fierce or violence 

5) Bhima the formidable 

6) Pashupati the herdsman or owner of cattle 
7) Ishana the ruler or master8 


8) Mahadeva Supreme Shiva himself 


These aspects of the Supreme Lord form earth, water, fire, air, ether, the indwelling soul 
and the Sun and the Moon, which are also eight in number and constitute the manifest 
existence. Shiva in his cosmic creative role is assisted by eight Bhairavas or terrible ones 
who are said to be frightful, horrible and formidable, who are his different limbs. They are 
Shiva, Bhaya (fear), Bhayanaka Rasa (the fearful dramatic mood), a specific river, a 
special musical composition, a special rhythm in music, a jackal and a specific mountain. 
All these Bhiravas represent the eight horses of black colour that draw the chariot of Rahu. 


Emblematically, Rahu is represented by two small circles linked by a larger 
semicircle curving upwards. This stands for the potential contained in man the 
Divie potential for its actualization. Rahu represents the great cyclical law related 
to the rejuvenating and regenerating process. Rahu is the messenger of the great 
cyclic law of manifestation whose mission is to work under the direction of a still 
higher law, with the assistance and cooperation of many cosmic forces. 


Rahu’s Profile by Barbara Pijan Lama : 
Rahu is the Reptile Brain with Passion, Entitlement & Desire. 
- Rahu is never satisfied. 


e Rahu is always working overtime, trying to receive validation in a role for which 
He is unqualified. Rahu is always scheming a new approach toward getting what 
He is not entitled to have. 


e Rahu is an embezzler, slowly leeching the life force consciousness as He pursues 
an endless series of hot but fleeting material desires. 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 16 


ASTROLOGY PART II 


e His methods are devious and surreptitious, driven by a deep hunger for validation 


through the experience of Possession, which is never satisfied. 


Rahu is an interloper, a fraud, and a poseur. :Rahu wants to be included in the 


world of the gods. But, Rahu is not a real deity. Rahu sneaks in through trickery. 


Rahu is a wanna-be. :He mainly tries to be attractive like Shukra. However, Rahu 


will shape-shift to imitate any graha who is His co-tenant or His Lord. 


Rahu is illegitimate, a taboo-breaker.:The planetary gods do not recognize or 
accept Rahu. Vishnu was insulted and enraged when He saw Rahu lift the cup of 
Amrita to those snake-like lips. Vishnu flung His diamond-sharp discus across the 
room and sliced Rahu in half, instantly, for his crime. But Rahu is for obvious 
reasons associated with scandal, taboo-breaking, excess, etc. so "skillful" is really 
the key. 


Rahu is always malefic in some sense, even when His contribution makes the 
native's life more vigorous, interesting, & colorful than would conventionally be 
allowed. The bhava occupied by Rahu becomes a site for sudden changes, 
sometimes catastrophic. 


The nature of the catastrophe is known via Rahu's lord. When Rahu's lord is a 
highly impressionable graha like Chandra or Budha, the lord of the lord will be a 
causative agent also. 


Rahu breaks social boundaries on Sex, Death, and other Taboos. Rahu gives the 
spirit emotional permission to break taboos & manifest passions long suppressed in 
the subconscious. Because social moral codes are essentially systems of taboo- 
management, taboo-crossing Rahu is associated with breakdown of the moral code. 


Rahu represents a foreigner, one who is polluted, a taboo-breaker, who looks or 
behaves in a strange or peculiar way, one who deals in vulgar or forbidden 
substances, or things that have been used by others and thus carry a hidden cargo 
of others' psychic imagery. 


Rahu's portfolio includes psychic pollution from wearing others' clothes or 
handling "recycled" items such as animal teeth, horns, skins. Forbidden 
substances typically include human blood, corpses, and offal, but each culture has 
its own unique proscriptions. (E,g., meat or alcohol for some; lying, profanity, or 
varieties of sexual behavior for others.) Rahu represents whatever the home 
culture holds as 'taboo' 


If Rahu is associated with a malefic graha, the person subconsciously remembers 
the ill-effects of breaking taboos in past lives, when they likely were driven out 
into the wilderness by their angry tribe - and died. 


For other people, Rahu is almost blissfully high adventure. 


If Rahu is associated with a benefic graha, the person subconsciously remembers 
the glamorous effects of expanding their tribes boundaries in a socially 
appreciated way. For example, the taboo on exotic marriages does not apply to 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 17 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


royalty, who frequently marry foreigners to gain alliances for their tribe. A person 
carrying positive past-life memories of a tribe-pleasing foreign bond or shamanic 
funeral where all the evil spirits came and were dispersed, will be much more 
likely to enjoy Rahu periods in the current life. 


Rahu is a disturber of the Moon which means He is a disturber of Manas, the 
Mind : Chandra rules hopes dreams emotions fear aspirations imagery and all the 
other ocean of mental-emotional experience which is Manas. Chandra rules a 
huge territory! 


Rahu creates a psychic gateway, through which miraculous and/or catastrophic 
changes emerge. 


Rahu releases subconsciously stored desires. These desires were often rather 
violently suppressed in past lives because it was impossible, inappropriate, or 
dangerous to manifest them in the old life. In the current life, when Rahu 
becomes strong, the desire resurges powerfully, "sprung" with the full force of 
long suppression. 


Rahu creates obsessive-compulsive behavior, passions, OBSESSIONS. His special 
forte is sexuality & money, jealousy & greed. 


Rahu is responsible for sudden, impulsive marriages. In relationships, Rahu can 
function as Venus's "evil twin" - causing us to mistake hormonally-driven passion 
for enduring love. In romance, under Rahu's influence, one may become obsessed 
by a person, idea, substance or pattern that you know is bad for you - but the 
addiction or obsession is so powerful that one becomes utterly enslaved. 


During its reign as mahadasha/bhukti-pati, Rahu will "light up" its rashi sign 
within navamsha. E.g., if Rahu occupies Simha in radix, then Rahu's period's will 
"wake up" Simha's house in the navamsha too. Rahu's navamsha rashi should 
define how your romantic & sexual passions will be running during Rahu. 


Rahu's bhukti always disturbs some aspect of life. However, if Rahu is yuti a good 
planet it can also magnify the good planet's effects. 


Rahu Dasha is time of material fulfillment for Taurus and Libra lagna. [Shani 
rules] Fortune-fulfilling houses 5, 9, or 10. 


Rahu conjunct any other planets hugely amplifies that other planet. With sensual 
planets like needy Moon, self-indulgent Venus, permissive Jupiter, or the willful 
Sun, Rahu gives a passionate intensity to the sensual quest. Not always 
accomplishment, but always desire. 


Rahu also amplifies its house owner. If house owner is Saturn or Mars, great need 
for self-knowledge in order to manage the desires not have the desires manage 
you. 


Rahu dasha is time of material fulfillment when Rahu itself *resides* in house 5, 
9, or 10. See this chart of successful attorney who experienced blossoming of legal 
literary accomplishments, publications, children, and success in litigation during 
Rahu's 18-yr dasha. [Note strong Rahu in 5 with L-2 Jupiter, lord of two kendras. 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 18 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


- Rahu in 5th house is generally harmful to children. Will deny children if Rahu 
occupies a barren sign - those ruled by Budha and Shani. In all other signs the 
children will often develop willfulness, have social-adaptive blockages, and may 


- exhibit shamanistic tendencies to "push the envelope" which marginalize the 
children socially. However usually there are compensating effects from other good 
planets. 


- Rahu in 5 & 9 with no aspects gives a passion for truth which goes into writing 
books. 


- Male Energy, Sun's Enemy Rahu :Surya is a source of energetic outgoing hot 
Male Energy; Moon is the opposite, incoming cool Female Energy. (Not to be 
confused with anatomical male bodies, which run a combination of Male and 
Female energies.) 


- Rahu is inherently difficult for individuals who depend heavily on social approval 
through conformity. 


- Rahu is inherently exhilarating & creative for people who are naturally 
independent and thrive on materializing long-held desires through creativity. 


- Rahu the Darkener who causes eclipse of Surya is the greatest enemy of the Sun. 
Rahu symbolizes destruction of Dharma. (In traditional India, Surya signifies a 
woman's husband; Rahu brings widowhood.) 


- Rahu is anti-conformist. It is said that the two strongest human desires are (1) to 
mate and (2) to conform. So you can see how Rahu has developed a reputation as 
a serious malefic. He prevents a person from conforming to social taboo. Rahu's 
job is to push passions to the surface. Ony and “independence-loving person 
ready for skillful transformation can benefit from a spiritual refreshment. 


B.V. Raman, Autobiography of a Vedic Astrologer, p. 99-100: 


“It has been my experience over nearly sixty years that Rahu as sub-lord, whether in his 
own period or in the period of other planets, would always create problems of a serious 
nature, affecting family and personal matters, which would test the mental and physical 
stamina of an individual whatever be his social, educational, or financial attainments. 


It is also found, contrary to general belief, that planets like the Sun and Mercury, 
occupying Rahu's constellations are capable of conferring happy results financially and 
career-wise but would create situations in domestic life, which could shatter a person's 
self-confidence and make him experience results which he would ordinarily never expect 
to happen. 


There are of course exceptions which I will discuss in due course” 


Words associated with Rahu by Das Goravani,: "Accidents, afflictions, astrologers, cosmic 
law, bad character, undesirable, begins to provoke, radical change, beyond help, cheating, 
corruption, cracks, crevices destiny, destroys the past, devils, dangerous people, devourer of 
the moon, disenchantment with matter, divine plan revealed, fear, foreigners, good - but 
through troubles hard times, immense pain, hysteria, insanity, imprisonment, inevitable 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 19 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


law, insects, poisons, law, karma, supreme, must be endured alone, past lives, debts, 
powerful, no escape, violence, vomiting, weaned, widowhood." 


North Node — Rahu :Seizer (Eclipse) 


Worldliness, materialism, paternal grandparents, transformation, sudden changes, 
excitement, alertness, intelligence, exoteric knowledge, glamour, fame, illusion, deception, 
fear, suspicion, phobia, uproar, riots, revolts, rebellion, insanity, deformation, 
sophistication, science, technology, psychology, psychiatry, metaphysics, initiation, 
destination, reincarnation, separation, distraction, disturbance, dividedness, obstacles, 
roughness, passion, lust, greed, confusion, drugs, addiction, inconsistency, sneakiness, 
cheating, theft, robbery, speculation, gambling, deterioration, fakeness, disguise, 
strangeness, foreigners, invasion, inundation, evacuation, epidemic, hiccup, noise, radio, 
electronic gadgets, high technology, black magic, sorcery, dilapidated places, waste 
materials, garbage, slums. 


Windy, Vata, Tamas, Durga, Varaha avatar (Boar incarnation). Atharvaveda, Jyotish, 
Planetary army, Outcaste, South-west, 42nd year. 


When afflicted it signifies compulsive behaviour, hedonistic tendency, change of residence. 


RAHU IN THE TWELVE RASHIS 


Mesha (Aries): Find lord Kuja & know His effects in the radix & navamsha. Rahu will 
amplify Kuja's effects, and also the effects of any other graha occupying Mesha. 


Competition & vitality entitlement: Rahu magnifies aggression & competition, gives desire 
to be a hero & a winner, selfishness, athleticism, physical-body-oriented lifestyle. Can 
become extremely focused on a single goal; which can manifest in a childlike or ruthless 
way, depending on Kuja. 


Vrishaba(Taurus): Find lord Shukra & know His effects in the radix & navamsha. Rahu 
will amplify Shukra's effects, and also the effects of any other graha occupying Vrishabha. 


Balance & design entitlement: Rahu magnifies sensual & self-indulgent behaviors, gives 
desire to have pleasures of the physical senses, love of nature, craving for beautiful people & 
things. Can become extremely focused on the pursuit of wealth, fine food & drink. 


Mithuna (Gemini):Find lord Budha & know His effects in the radix & navamsha. Rahu 
will amplify Budha's effects, and also the effects of any other graha occupying Mithuna. 


Communicative relationship entitlementRahu magnifies a desire to define & solve 
problems, enthusiasm for conversation, sexual attractions & pairings, & craving for 
intellectual stimulation. Can become extremely focused on short-term solutions to long- 
term problems. 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 20 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


Karaka (Cancera)Find lord Chandra & determine Soma's effects in the radix & 
navamsha. Rahu will amplify Chandra's effects, and also the effects of any other graha 
occupying Karkata. 


Psycho-emotional entitlement: Rahu very intense in Soma's rashi, Rahu magnifies the 
whole range of mind's astral awareness, including sensitivity to deep currents of nurturing 
emotion in self and others. Intensely desires security & stability, is never satisfied with 
depth of family bonding. Can never have enough opportunity to give and receive parental 
love and care. 


Yet, the native is by nature emotionally fluctuating & changing every day. Highly unstable 
parent. Will often make a great display of parenting, or patriotism, or both - but the display 
is intended to attract attention and create opportunities for deeper sensual experience. It is 
not a display of contentment. Can develop a parent complex, taking care of everyone within 
reach. Has a special attraction to those who are 'separated' from their roots: destitute, 
homeless, and stateless. 


Can become extremely focused on protecting their family, home and homeland from 
invaders - psychic or physical. Yet, the native also seeks public validation of the parenting 
role, in which the native feels unstable. 


Rahu is an interloper, fraud, and poseur who wants to be included in the world of the gods. 
But, He is illegitimate in that world. Thus Rahu is always working overtime, trying to 
receive validation in a role for which He is unqualified. His methods are devious and 
surreptitious, driven by a deep hunger for validation which is never satisfied. 


Rahu's hunger for validation of parenting-sheltering-protecting legitimacy (remember ) 
ironically can cause the native to open one's home to psychic or physical invasion, such as 
the tabloid press or social welfare agencies. and cause 


Simha:Leo:Find lord Ravi and know His effects in the radix & navamsha. Rahu will 
amplify Ravi's effects, and also the effects of any other graha occupying Simha. 


Ethical leadership entitlement:Rahu magnifies rational, philosophical attitude & confidence 
that one's view is correct. Desires attention, recognition of their social & ethical worth. 
Can become extremely focused on glamorous companions, celebrity events, etc. Can be 
obsessed with personal appearance, media handling, their public image. 


Kanya(Virgo):Find lord Budha & know His effects in the radix & navamsha. Rahu 
will amplify Budha's effects, and also the effects of any other graha occupying 
Kanya. 


Communicative relationship entitlement:Rahu magnifies analytical tendencies and can 
lead to obsession with details, with clear articulation, exquisite writing, with cleanliness, 
with health. Wants to be exhaustively thorough, yet in their passion for completeness can 
overlook essentials. Can be driven perfectionists. 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 91 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


Thula (Libra):Find lord Shukra & know His effects in the radix & navamsha. 
Rahu will amplify Shukra's effects, and also the effects of any other graha 
occupying Tula. 


Balance & design entitlement: Rahu magnifies a passion for good design, harmonious 
relationships, and social order. Will take risks, with surprising energy, to achieve their 
goal of beautifully balanced, equitable social arrangements. Can become obsessed with 
formal aesthetic issues, balancing multiple relationships, and keeping up a flawless public 
appearance. 


Vrischika(Scorpio):Find lord Kuja & know His effects in the radix & navamsha. Rahu will 
amplify Kuja's effects, and also the effects of any other graha occupying 

Vrischika. Competition & vitality entitlement:Rahu magnifies manipulative & secretive 
behaviors. Wants substantial but anonymous, hidden power. Gives desire to assume & 
maintain control, occultism, fascination with the cycle of birth & death, potentially deep 
healing powers. Can become extremely focused on the discovery or recovery process. 


Dhanus(Sagittarius):Find lord Guru & know His effects in the radix & 
navamsha. Rahu will amplify Guru's effects, and also the effects of any other 
graha occupying Dhanus. 


Wisdom & expansion entitlement :Rahu magnifies optimism & humanistic faith in 
empowerment through education. Can be an obsessive coach that believes passionately in 
their athletes, or a bootstrapping teacher who transforms wayward youth. Can be 
obsessed with religious faith, to the point of fanaticism over even a compulsive gambler 
betting on the dark horse. Maintains a positive vision through excessive faith. 


Makar(Capricorn):Find lord Shani & know His effects in the radix & navamsha. 
Rahu will amplify Shani's effects, and also the effects of any other graha 
occupying Makara. 


Structure & justice entitlement: Rahu magnifies the desire for respectability and prestige, 
which can make their style simple & unassuming. Rahu will take risks in pursuit of 
Shani's conventional goals, so this is a complex & often ironic placement. Crave 
leadership & position. Can become obsessed with notable achievement, to the point of 
taking individual credit for the work of a group. 


Kumbha (Aquarius): 


Find lord Shani & know His effects in the radix & navamsha. Rahu will amplify Shani's 
effects, and also the effects of any other graha occupying Kumbha. 


Structure & justice entitlement along with world networking: Rahu magnifies the desire to 
promote a visionary worldview, showing the connections between all things. Often 
working at cross-purposes with their own goals; promoting a viewpoint that they 
personally don't believe, because they are hooked into a network of people who pay them 
to serve as a mouthpiece for the worldview. Contradictory folk. Their vision may be 
authentic or fraudulent with the motive of making a great profit. 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


Meena (Pisces):Find lord Guru & know His effects in the radix & navamsha. Rahu will 
amplify Guru's effects, and also the effects of any other graha occupying Meena. 


Wisdom & expansion entitlement: Rahu magnifies the desire to seek sanctuary in the 
world of intuitive, private perceptions. Likes foreign travel. Increases the psychic 
capabilities. Can amplify childlike play or paranoia, depending on the supporting 
planets. Prone toward clandestine activities, whether these are disappearing into an 
ashram for a week of prayer, traveling incognito, or conducting unauthorized espionage. 
Depends which spirits they are channeling. 


RAHU IN THE TWELVE BHAVAS 


Rahu challenges cultural boundaries, stimulates hungry desires, and breaks taboo. 
Rahu can manifest avarice, gluttony, & greed. 
Rahu does well in lagna & in dushtana & upachaya bhava. 


Leading to: 

- Desire to challenge conventional boundaries of social positioning 
- Hunger to Possess unique identity through special entitlements. 
- Attracted to displays of physical glamour. 


22 


Bhava 1: Native has an unusual individual identity. Craving to advance one's social position 


far beyond the rank into which one was born. A bit of a poseur, who may downplay one's 
common upbringing, attempting to appear more exotic. Often the mark of high 
performance in the area of life controlled by Rahu's lord, due to ambitious risk-taking. 


One is strangely attractive; and prone to take risks in one's life (usually in order to gain 
attention or power). 


- If Shani is associated with Rahu in lagna, these are calculated risks with scarce 
resources, reduced by conservative fears; 


- if Kuja is associated with Rahu in lagna, prone to adventure with physical risk; 
accidents; 


- if Chandra is associated with Rahu in lagna, prone to dramatic relationships with 
psycho-emotional risk 


- if Shukra is associated with Rahu in lagna, prone to glamour and attraction and 
creativity. 


In psychic terms: if Rahu + malefics, the birth personality is conflicted. The birth itself is 
challenged. Native must struggle to enforce their right to life. Native 'sneaks in' to the 
conception in a surreptitious act: stealing their drop of amrita. 


Rahu disrupts the customary methods of individual identity development. 
All graha gain dignity in lagna, and Rahu is no exception. An extraordinary person who 
stands out from the crowd. Native is socially identified with foreign interests, the 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 93 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


underclass, mysterious or taboo behaviors, or a threat to order implied in catastrophic 
social changes. 


The total results depend entirely on Rahu's lord and any grahas which co-occupy the lagna. 
The native is psychically hyper-sensitive to empowerments of all varieties. One seeks 
recognition and achievement, and is obsessively hungry for material-physical-sensual 
experience. 


Bhava 2:Rahu disrupts the customary methods of mental tasking and group 
communications: 


- Desire to penetrate the conventional boundaries protecting Stored Cultural 
Values and "classic" Knowledge Traditions. 


- Hunger to Possess histories, wealth collections, & classical languages 


- Attracted to banks, accounts, collections of valuable books, art, music, language 
materials, all hoards of knowledge and accumulated wealth. 


Rahu disrupts the customary methods of values acquisition. The native hungers for 
many types of knowledge, and is unable to maintain a sustained focus on a single type 
for long enough to build much wealth or expertise. 


Lifetime accumulations, including money savings, are erratic & unpredictable along a 
roller-coaster pattern. Periods of Rahu are fiercely acquisitive. If Rahu's lord is 
favorable, Rahu in domain-2 may signify great wealth - either in money or in 
knowledge, or both. 


Typically the native will desire to acquire not only money, but also a comprehensive 
knowledge of history -- especially knowledge of the traditions of one's blood lineage. 
One hungers to know languages, esp. the most valuable languages e.g. the ancient & 
sacred tongues. 


Rahu wishes to possess knowledge & material collections of art, music, jewels, money, & 
all beautiful and luxurious things (Shukra's house). 


However Rahu's rampant desires are not satisfied with a single collection. The more Rahu 
learns, the more Rahu acquires, the more He craves the experience of acquiring further 
foods, monies, jewels, art, music, books, and other containers of sustaining knowledge. 
One acquired, the materials lose their fascination, and Rahu's hunger moves to new, 
related values. 


The general range of collection types will be known according to Rahu's lord and Rahu's 
co-tenants. 


Rahu periods may produce dramatic taboo behaviors such as death, and bringing 
outsiders into the family. 


When Rahu occupies death house-2, and Rahu occupies an unfavorable angle from the 
mahadasha pati, Rahu periods can give powerful maraka effects including sudden deaths 
within the family. 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC IA 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


Unusual or extreme expression of cultural values. Values are deeply influenced by foreign 
cultures and the native eats the foods of foreign lands. High permission to enjoy amplify the 
activities of the face & mouth. Attractive hair. High entitlement to eat & drink, speak & 
sing, as they please! Gives an intriguing, attractive, slightly exotic face. 


Bhava 3:Rahu disrupts the customary methods of mental tasking and group 
communications. 


- Desire to penetrate & disrupt the conventional integrity of Business 
Administration and Communication Patterns 


- Hunger to Possess the thoughts of others through special entitlements 
- Attracted to taboo conversations and interactive mental process. 


Challenges the conventional cultural styles of information management. Disrupts meetings, 
the information flow of work-group, team, or business department. A rather peculiar 
person to have in the office.Great hunger to talk with foreigners & take short trips to 
foreign lands. Can fabricate false stories for instrumental purposes, but is also a great 
short-story writer. Whether this mental attraction to extremes in storytelling is beneficial 
will depend on Rahu's lord. Too exotic mentally for success in parochial business, but may 
succeed in international commerce. 


Mental health:Disruption to the conventional flow of daily thoughts. Invades the 
boundaries of others' thoughts. The inner personal narrative may be surging with hungry 
desire for sensual experience. If Budha is involved with Rahu, the mental flow of daily 
thoughts and voices from past and present which rings in the heads of all humans, is a wild 
and exciting inner debate. 


Younger Siblings:The immediate younger sibling is odd or has strong foreign interests. 
Communication flow with the siblings is intense, peculiar, disrespectful of boundaries, 
challenging to personal integrity. If Rahu = yuti malefics, the sibling's mental health may 
be an issue. 


Bhava 4:Rahu disrupts the customary methods of cultural indoctrination.Associated with 
Land Reform movements and with patriotic cultural revolutions, "the loyal opposition". 
The native uses one's education toward taboo-challenging purposes 


Outsiders who are present in the childhood home create a peculiar & unstable or highly 
diverse upbringing, in which the natural repetition o familiar habits and customs is 
disrupted (e.g., foreign education) and child is not entirely secure. 


- Desire to challenge conventional boundaries of social security and cultural 
indoctrination 


- Desire to Possess cultural roots through special entitlements 
- Attracted to schools, lands & properties 


The native may receive indoctrination amongst the underclass or in an exotic, ritually 
proscribed land. Unusual process of basic socialization & cultural education. May reject 
conventional education, preferring to carve a taboo-challenging path toward one's own 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 95 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


cultural identity. Excellent for a multi-cultural educator. Good for owning property in 
foreign lands. Can accumulate a massive amount of property if Rahu's lord is powerful but 
one does not directly own it. 


Attracted to extremes in the world of real estate & education. Sudden changes of property 
ownership; damage to properties by natural catastrophe during Rahu periods. 


Bhava 5:Rahu disrupts the customary methods of expressing individual creativity. 
Can be an indication of celebrity, if Rahu's dispositor is favorable. 


- Desire to challenge conventional boundaries of expressing creativity, raising 
children, politics, speculation, and genius in performing arts 


- Hunger to Possess fame, celebrity, and recognition for individual intelligence 
- Attracted to amusements and games. 


Fascination with celebrity and political power. Excited by expressions of individual genius 
and by "winning". 


Expansive but unstable desire for children, which may be thwarted due to psychic 
fluctuations & inconsistency of purpose. Underclass or taboo attributes of the children. 
Rahu in a rashi of Budha or Shani may deny children. Rahu in other rashis may give large 
numbers of children. Only the house lord can determine whether the native can raise these 
unusual children, or whether the kids will be raised by others (servants, ex-spouses, etc.) 
Frequently an indicator of foreign adoption. Can signify adopting or raising one's 
grandchildren because one's own children have an irregular lifestyle. 


Bhava 6:Rahu disrupts the customary methods of performing service work and managing 
conflict.Generally when a malefic occupies a dusthana, the malefic oppresses the natural 
‘dus’ (troubles) associated with the evil house, and the results are surprisingly good. The 
native's strongest desires are focused in the area of "loss of agreement", i.e. fighting, but 
one does not run from the challenge. Rather, a deep and sustained engagement often 
produces expertise and profit. 


- Desire to challenge conventional boundaries of social conflict: medicine, poverty, 
divorce, exploitation, and crime. 


- Hunger to Possess drugs & medicines, servants & animals, imbalanced and 
adversarial association. Attracted to underclass 


Rahu in domain-6 gives a "mixed bag". Numerous conflict-agents such as Police, military, 
underclass, outcast, foreigners, manipulators, thieves, thugs, liars, physicians, drug dealers, 
prostitutes, poseurs, loans sharks will populate the stage in this theatre of life. 


There will be considerable illness from toxicity, often psycho-mental in origin, and danger 
from wrong drugs. In case of severe illness, the native may find remarkable cures from 
alternative treatments, or in a foreign land. There is allurement of unethical, disrespectful 
or forbidden activities. 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 26 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


Rahu denotes destruction of the adversary. Gain of wealth, knowledge, vigor. 

If well-aspected, all the evils fade away. A strong Rahu indicates vehicular wealth. Progeny 
to uncle denied; or daughters only. Rahu in Sixth House promotes health and strength, 
trusted employees, favors service, fortune through paternal relatives; some income or 
employment. Benefit through prosperous uncles & aunts. 


Bhava 7:Desire to challenge conventional boundaries of Marriage & Business Agreements. 


Rahu disrupts the customary methods of marriage and business partnership. May have an 
exotic or taboo-breaking attitude toward sexual partnership. 


Foreign, exotic, or taboo-breaking attributes of the spouse. Marriage represents entitlement 
to satisfy a personal desire at the expense of social conformity. Spouse may be externally 
successful in worldly life, but the spouses boundary-breaking excesses or foreign behaviors 
are a permanent source of instability and challenge in the native's life. Spouse is 
inappropriate. 


Excellent for international business negotiations, where the spouse becomes a significant 
partnering asset. Also good for counseling/advising in multi-cultural and socially taboo 
relationships. 


Bhava 8:Rahu disrupts the customary methods of managing the joint assets of marriage, 
and gives a passion for handling sudden emergencies. 


Rahu is beneficial in domain-8, but only for magical or tantric healings, such as surgery, 
and emergency intervention. Rahu in domain-8 may bring inherited wealth, and 
surprisingly broad access to privileged information. Much hidden interaction with 
foreigners, exotic & secret world-power lineages (if in a regal sign) and a great attraction to 
situations involving catastrophic, forced, and sudden changes. 


Hunger for the hidden, secret, confidential, deadly, dangerous, or taboo. 

Keynote of interventionist healers in the acute transitional stages of life & death. Makes an 
excellent psychiatrist and medical or crime writer. Engaged with the rebuilding of identity 
after catastrophic change. Intrigued by the extraordinary transformation of life force 
during emergencies. Death by poison/drugs, snake-venom, or surprise attack. 


Hunger for immersion in sudden movements of the cycle of birth & death, such as acute 
psycho-medical trauma, emergency first-responder, medical "triage", wills & estates, large- 
scale taxation, managing weapons of mass destruction, awareness of forces of great evil in 
the world. 


Bhava 9:Rahu disrupts the customary methods of religious ritual and wisdom teaching. 
High desire for intense experience in religious ritual and belief systems. Often has a foreign 
or outsider guru. The Guru may be involved in espionage or manipulation of foreign 
governments; or a cult priest; or other surreptitious taboo-breaking roles. The guru may be 
a renegade anti-traditionalist. 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC a7 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


Native tends toward extremes in ceremonial religion, with powerful desire to re-interpret or 
re-appropriate religious systems. Wants to make changes in the existing temples of 
knowledge & their priesthood. If Rahu is ill-disposed, may desecrate temples of knowledge. 


Bhava 10:Rahu disrupts the customary methods of leading organizations & managing 
public duties. There isa: 


- desire to challenge conventional boundaries protecting Leadership Respect & 
Prestige 


- hunger to possess respected positions, high reputation, important duties, 
government appointments 


- desire to attain executive offices, tops of pyramids, positions of power and 
command. 


To conventional observers, this person seems like an inappropriate or vulgar choice for an 

exalted public role. However if Rahu's lord is auspicious the public becomes fascinated with 

the native and one retains high dignity for a good long time. 

- Associated with sudden changes in leadership. 

- Wants status objects & admiration of the masses. 

- The native may profit from power vacuums & social instability. 

- An iconic agent of social change. Desires a high position in hierarchy, but has an 
exotic & taboo-challenging style of getting there. 

- Underclass, taboo-breaking, or exotic element in the public personality. 


"Outsider" breakthrough into iconic, symbolic public roles. Popular with the working 
classes, those who like to "bet on a dark horse", or "root for the little guy". Perceived as an 
agent of change in the highest echelons of privilege and prestige. 


Bhava 11:Rahu disrupts the customary methods of large-group networking and 
marketplace associations. There is always a desire and hunger for: 


- challenging conventional boundaries of Gainful Association & Friendship 
- Possessing networks of affiliation and connection 


- large gatherings such as country fair and kumbha mela, national political party 
rallies, giant electronic networks 


"Outsider" in the conventional marketplace. Normally, a karaka for wealth. Associated 
with pyramid schemes & questionable marketing practices. 

Great hunger for profitable association, which causes the native to form networks of 
association amongst highly diverse persons & interests. A chameleon of society, who enjoys 
manipulating the needs & desires of others for personal profit. 


Rahu in domain-11 is a karaka for marketplace success, and a high (though fluctuating) 
income. Rahu's lord must be auspicious to provide long-term sustained profits. 


Bhava 12:Rahu disrupts the customary methods of private enclosure and the handling 
imagery from the dream world. Desire to penetrate the conventional boundaries protecting 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 28 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


Sanctuary, Loss of Identity, and Moksha. Hunger to possess dreams, images, and astral 
information. Attracted to foreign lands, private enclosures, meditation centers, 
monasteries, hospitals, and ashrams. 


One's private world of dreams & fantasies is forever churning & trying to merge with the 
imaginations of others, or invade the boundaries of others' private enclosures. If Rahu's 
lord is auspicious, wonderful dreams will fuel a rich fantasy life. If Rahu's lord is 
inauspicious, 'nightmares' disrupt the native's peace of mind. 


Power to stimulate the imaginative fantasies of others. Power to exhume, unearth, or 
excavate deeply buried subconscious desires. May be engaged in boundary-challenging 
research. 


Can change one's identity by traveling to a foreign. Likes to lose one personality identity 
and gain another, perhaps several times during the lifetime. Enjoys the role of "outsider". 


KETU-— THE DESCENDING NODE OF THE MOON:"Caundat Draconis - The Dragon's 


Tail" 


am Veer frre aeqrera eftate 


Many names of Ketu: Ketu — Kethu, Sikhi, Shri Shri Ganapati 
Ganesha, Ganesh, Vighnesha, VighneSvara, Vinayaka; Pille, Pillaiyar. 


Cologne Digital Sanskrit Dictionary gives the following meanings of: 


Ketu: bright appearance, clearness, brightness (often plural, " rays of light "),lamp, flame, 
torch, day-time, apparition, form, shape, sign , mark , ensign , flag , banner, a chief, leader, 
eminent person, intellect, judgment, discernment, any unusual or striking phenomenon , 
comet , meteor , falling star, the dragon's tail or descending node, in mythol. as the body of 
the demon Sainhikeya [son of Sinhika] -- which was severed from the head of Rahu by 
Vishnu at the churning of the ocean -- but was rendered immortal by having tasted the 
Amrita , "a pigmy race", disease,an enemy 

a son of Agni, " red apparitions ", a class of spirits (a kind of sacrificial fire is called after 
them) 


Gana: a flock , troop , multitude , number , tribe , series , class (of animate or inanimate 
beings). body of followers or attendants, troops or classes of inferior deities (especially 
certain troops of demi-gods considered as Siva's attendants and under the special 
superintendence of the god Ganesha, Name of Ganesha 

a company , any assemblage or association of men formed for the attainment of the same 
aims, the 9 assemblies of Rishis under the Arhat Maha-vira Jain, a sect in philosophy or 
religion, a small body of troops (= 3 Gulmas or 27 chariots and as many elephants , 81 
horses , and 135 foot), a series or group of asterisms or lunar mansions classed under three 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 29 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


heads (that of the gods , that of the men , and that of the Rakshasas), (in arithmetic.) a 
number, (in metre) a foot or four instants, (in grammar) a series of roots or words following 
the same rule and called after the first word of the series, the g or the whole series of roots 
of the 2nd class 

the g or the series of words commencing with garga. 


UTTARAKALAMRITAMSECTION 5: Slokas 53-54 Relating to Action, Function or Doing 
of Ketu: (1) Worship of Goddess Chandee, God Siva, God Ganesa and the several other 
Gods (2) doctor (3) dog (4) a cock (5) vulture (6) salvation (7) all kinds of wealth (8) 
consumption (9) pain (10) fever (11) bath in the Ganges (12-) great penance (13) wind (14) 
an outcast (15) friendship (16) conferring of prosperity (17) stone (18) wound (19) the 
science of witchcraft (20) in~constancy (21) knowledge of Brahman (22) belly (4 ) eye-pain 
(24) stupidity (25) thorn (26) deer (27) knowledge (28) the penance of silence (29) 
philosophy (30) all kinds of luxury (31) luck (32) causing trouble to enemies (33) sparing in 
eating (34) indifference to the world (35) paternal grandfather (36) hunger (37) intense pain 
(38) a boil (59) freedom from disease (40) horned creatures (41) the fig tree (beetle?) (42) 
Revoking the order of arrest and (43) Sudra company-all these are to be sought for through 
Ketu. 


UTTARAKALAMRITA MSECTION 6,Sloka 13% - 14%: During the advent of Ketu’s Dasa 
when Ketu is favourable, there will be success in all undertakings, acquisition of wealth 
through bloody deeds, good fortune through a foreign king, attempts at poetical 
com—position and destruction of enemies. When Ketu is bad, he will cause to the native 
intense miseries; all his efforts will become fruitless; he will be doing only unprofitable 
things; there will also be loss of position; he will suffer from rheumatism, tuberculosis, 
shaking all over the body,' misunderstanding with the Brahmin folk. He will further 
commit the worst follies. 


Phaladeepika, Adhaya II, Sloka 34 : Ketu has a red and fierce look a venomous tongue, and 
an elevated body; he is armed; he is an outcast of a smoky colour, and is inhaling smoke 
always; he has bruised limbs; he is lean and is malicious 


Rahu & Ketu in Predictive Astrology, page 82, Manik Chand Jain: 


"Rahu has the influence of Jupiter conjunction Venus. It gives intense appreciation and 
respect for the area by house where Rahu is located or transiting. There is popularity in 
this place with optimism and cheerfulness. This is a lucky place. 


.... Ketu has the influence of a Mars conjunct Saturn. In Ketu, too much of the Saturn 
accent can produce fear and hold the Mars action back. This can give poor timing. Mars 
represents energy and Saturn, a cycle of time. With the Combination, we need to take stock 
of the issues involved, and do something about them. 


There is an ambition for power where Ketu is located by house. The trick is to use the 
energy of Mars in the right amount by the disciplining of Saturn in an area of selfless 
service rather than over-possessiveness." 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 30 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


Vedic Symbolism of Ketu — The South Nodes of the Moon 


Ketu, the descending or south lunar node, forms an integral part of the serpent, Vasuki. 
Ketu, along with Rahu, represent karmic retribution, linking the present restrictions and 
opportunities with past actions. 


In Vedic hymns, Ketu is invoked as “Decked with silk, flowers, garlands, sandal paste and 
an umbrella, of variegated colour and seated in a divine chariot which travels around 
mount Meru. Born of Jaimini’s family, under Abhijit star may four-armed, deathless, 
effulgent Ketu, seated facing south on a throne, make us ever happy with wealth and 
abundance.” 


The ancient seers gave Ketu such epithets as : Tamas, Dwaja and Sikkhin. 


Tamas; one of three basic attributes of nature, meaning darkness. This is associated with 
avarna shakti, the veil that conceals the real nature behind the manifestation. The illusory 
or Mayic covering gives us a wrong view of reality. It radiates a strange illumination born 
of its understanding of the illusory character of creation. The enigmatic splendour of Ketu 
arises from its understanding of human nature wrapped in the great illusion. 


Dwaja: means a flag or an emblem. It symbolises a) an eminent person; b) the organof 
generation c) a house situated in the east. The impulse makes an individual work under the 
orders given by a higher power. The person carrying the flag works under some authority; 
Ketu assists the externalization of the Divine Plan. As it is aware of the transient nature of 
existence, it does not involve itself in the physical or material realm. It functions from the 
mental plane and is induced towards spiritual unfoldment, which is the function of pure 
intelligence. 


Sikkhin: means an arrow, a horse, a bull, a lamp, a tree, a religious mendicant and a 
peacock. Sikkhin represents something pointed, well directed and serving as a funcrum. It 
signifies the sharp penetration of an arrow. The arrow is directed towards a target — the 
understanding of the process of Divine manifestation. With the dawn of such an 
understanding, Sikkhin apart from making the individual purely intellectual, orients a new 
life in the light of the new understanding, thereby enabling the person to work for the 
Divine Plan. 


Ketu, born under Abhijit refers to the bright northern star Vega, in Cpricorn, standing for 
the universalisation of the individual, in consonance with the planetary impulse of Ketu to 
carry out the Will of God. Ketu’s birth in Jaimini’s family under Abhijit stands for 
regenerative mental process under inner guidance that allow for the spiritual evolution of 
humanity. 


The emblem of Ketu is a downward curving semicircle linking two small circles place on 
either side above it. Both the small circles stand for the actualization of the individual’s 
destiny, the bottom of the semi circle symbolises the zenith, the incarnation of the soul’s 
growth to perfection is being realized, the several phases of development represented by the 
passage of the soul which the semicircular arc traverses. Ketu is spiritual humiliation. 
Ketu, who is associated with the arrow, looking from behind the veil of ignorance, taking 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 31 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


orders from the Divine Intelligence, guides the destiny of the universe while preserving its 
cohesion and equilibrium. 


BENEFIC EFFECTS :of being separated from Head/Ego, Humility, Detachment. 


Physical: fasting, austerities, wandering, pilgrimage (esp. yuti Guru), high-permission 
sexuality /low barriers (esp. yuti Shukra), a strong Ketu is beneficial for the Practice of 
Medicine 


Psycho-emotional: easy detachment from ego, psychic intuition, subtle sensitivities 
strengthens "tolerance for ambiguity", a hallmark of moral maturity, authentic humility, 
increased awareness of subconscious projection. 


Mental: fantasy, creative artistic imagination,lucid dreaming,trance, channeling, telepathy, 
access to psychic arts, universalist viewpoint, Psycho-mental detachment: Good/easy or 
bad/difficult?, Healthy skepticism of mental delusions. 


Social: unworldliness, disregards boundaries of class & caste, lacking bigotry, egalitarian, 
natural acceptance of all beings, spiritualistic nature,wealth. 


Spiritual: "moksha-karaka", surrender, liberation, moksha, disengagement, protection by 
divine forces, "supernatural powers" (which are really natural human powers liberated 
when chaotic desires recede), devotion to Shri Ganesha, meditation & conscious awareness. 


MALEFIC EFFECTS :of being cut off & abandoned, Humiliation, Disconnection 


Physical:chronic fatigue, exhaustion,restlessness, wandering, inertia, weight loss, 

eating disorders, malnourishment, starvation, mysterious & un-diagnosed illnesses (esp. 
yuti L-6), substance addictions (esp. yuti L-12 or Shukra), severing or loss of lower body 
parts, self-abuse, inc." cutting" (esp, yuti Kuja), self-destructive, austerities (esp. yuti 
Shani), enforced isolation or banishment. trauma. 


Psycho-emotional:unrequited love, distant crush, hero worship, idealization of Other, 
denial, reliving past diappointments, fear of abandonment/being cut off 

obsession with loss & separation, the Great Withholder, frustration, chronic 
disconnectedness, despair, dissatisfaction & disenchantment, chronic ennui, 
emotional obsessions & insecurity, "holes in the aura". 


Mental:mental tension, victim mentality, outsider mentality, expectation of disconnection, 
confusion, spacey-ness, permeable boundaries, apathy; "I give up", 

self-destructive fantasies & beliefs, self-doubt, habitual rejection of completeness, 

mental denial of negative emotions, mental stuck-ness, stagnation, paralysis,fuzzy 
imagination; unclear thoughts, escapism, obsession with events in the past, fanaticism, 
paranoid suspicion & distrust, disintegration/dissolution of social ego. 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 32 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


Social: passive-aggressive socializing style "hiding", lurking, social invisibility, non- 
presence, non-participation in a job or relationship lose-lose situations: damned if you do, 
damned if you don't, unable to leave a difficult or draining relationship, carelessness, 
apathy, replays the ' loss' theme, self-pity, divorce, outsider looking in, 

blaming others for problems, loss of rank or social identity , "professional victim" 

refusal to accept responsibilities (esp. when yuti Shani or yuti Surya) 

conflict deflection onto others; (esp. yuti Kuja), manipulative social behavior, 

vague or indirect communications (esp. yuti Budha), repressed, periodically explosive anger 
(yuti Kuja), abandonment, uncooperativeness, outlandish, weird, difficult to interpret, 
unearthly, feeling 'shut out', 'out of the loop’, ignored, trivialized, marginalized, or 
disregarded. 


South Node — Ketu -Moksha (Secrecy) 


Spirituality, secrecy, maternal grandparents, enlightenment and apparent obstacles on the 
way to enlightenment, complete knowledge, indolence, seclusion, eccentricity, renunciation, 
asceticism, mysticism, esoteric knowledge, psychic abilities, abstraction, sublimation, 
transformation, separation, dividedness, kundalini, uncontrollable mass of energy, 
electricity, brightness, flame, lamp, television, apparition, witchcraft, intrigues, suspicion, 
corruption, scandals, excesses, hectic situations, sudden events, any unusual or striking 
phenomenon, unexpected changes, accidental incidents, panic, poison, epidemics, fever, 
intestinal worms, hindrances, handicaps, stammering, falling star, comet, spark, smoke 


Windy, Vata, Tamas, Ganesha, Meena avatar (Fish incarnation), Ayurveda, Upanishad, 
Aranyaka, Planetary Army, Mixed caste, South-west, 48th year. 


When afflicted it signifies worries, suspicious nature of mind, hidden difficulties, unforeseen 
circumstances, impediments, insanity, amputation 


KETU AND THE DIFFERENT LEVELS OF AWARENESS 


At the higher levels of awareness, Ketu can aid concentration & meditation , 

create authentic, fully transformative sacrifice, support pure tantrik practices, 

establish complete non-reactive neutrality, invoke a conscious state of surrender — one’s 
only felt desire is the desire for deeper surrender, provide sincere & willing detachment 
from objects of desire, induce a state of passive, non-interfering and non-invested 
acceptance of reality, reduce “interference patterns” in perception 

increase the size, scope & clarity of the field of consciousness by eliminating desire-driven 
distractions, strengthen clairvoyant and clairaudient capabilities (again, reaping benefits of 
reduced interference). 


Benefits:If Ketu is well-situated, Ketu periods may bring all the benefits associated with the 
Ketu-occupied bhava. For example, Ketu in dhanasthana may bring extraordinary wealth — 
but the native will not be particularly attached to it! 

Ketu periods with their conscious rootlessness are very auspicious for guided austerity 
practices, withdrawal from non-spiritual relationships, sanctuary retreats, temple 
pilgrimage, sacred journey 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 33 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


At medium levels of awareness:Ketu tends toward a mix of bitter disappointment & 
continuous yearning for connection:. Denial of ego nutrient, mental tension, caught in moral 
dilemmas and lose-lose options, lack of praise, denied promotions, loss of status, personal 
and professional setbacks due to failed expectations, Emotional withholding behaviors by 
Self and projected upon others, Frustration and blaming one’s shortcomings upon Other, 
Unconscious projection of childhood abandonment, fears into adult relationships, Bitter 
disappointments, Deep yearning for apparently unachievable goals, partners, and 
experiences, Contemptuous rejection of Other, cycling back to frustrated union, and 
rejection again, Unconscious or barely conscious projection of negative fantasies upon 
others 


Benefits: Ketu periods are exceptionally auspicious for personal psychotherapy, but may not 
yield much progress in relationship counseling. A focus on “abandonment” and 
“separation” issues will be fruitful. If Ketu is well-positioned and the native knows their 
true capabilities, there can be professional and personal advancement through careful 
management of power vacuums & unusual circumstances. Key to success is neutral 
humility paired with sensitive awareness of other's desires. 

(Not self-effacing or other false humility, but true neutrality and authentic skillful ability to 
serve other's interests, such as to help an organization reach its goals.) 


At lower levels of awareness: Ketu tends toward its more malefic state: 

Terror of abandonment, urgent but thwarted survival need to achieve union with the 
object of desire, leading to stalking, anxiety-driven predatory behaviors, etc 

Rejection of reality, Disregard for social and psychic boundaries, Fantasy-driven behaviors, 
falsifying credentials, posing and posturing, obsession with distant celebrity figures, 
claiming that fantasy relationships are real, other confusions of the reality-imagination 
boundary, Native is exceptionally absorptive; other people’s negative projections easily find 
him, and stick to him, Deep neediness, relies on others to provide his/her identity, Inability 
to accept personal responsibility 

Victim state, Feels that homelessness, rootlessness, acts of desperation are the result of 
having been abandoned by those s/he once trusted, Asks for shelter from government, 
community, or family — but rejects services, fears & distrusts connection, needs to wander, 
Trapped in Ego reaction of toxic anxiety 

Divorce as a lower-level reactive fear bondage; Ketu is a karaka for divorce of the “I-give- 
up” type. However, true to the myth of Rahu-Ketu, divorce under Ketu means that the 
natives may physically separate from each other but they remain psychically connected in a 
perpetual cycle of victimization, blaming & distrust. 


Trauma:The brutal act of separation, abandonment, and rejection is described vividly in 
the myth of Rahu-Ketu. 


Ketu also indicates trauma. Look for trauma in the signification of Ketu's house and the 
character of His lord, as well as in any co-tenants who share a house with Ketu. Wherever 
the native shall suffer unbearable separations, with a great but unachievable longing for 
consummation or reunion, there is Ketu. Ketu is a karaka for ex-communication, divorce, 
being shunned, ostracized, or invalidated. 


Ketu's trauma is not likely to "heal" in the sense that material reunion will not be fully 
accomplished in this lifetime. However the emotional pain can be neutralized by deep 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 34 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


acceptance and forgiveness. Each new Ketu bhukti will re-stimulate the core trauma of 
separation, rejection, abandonment, and loss of wholeness. Each Ketu bhukti offers and 
opportunity to practice neutrality and forgiveness. 


Positive management of Ketu's malefic effects: 


Ketu is a karaka for meditation and conscious awareness. All disabilities caused by Ketu 
can be improved through conscious awareness of the subconscious predisposition to expect 
disconnection, leading to a lifetime of disappointment & chronic mistrust. 

While Shri Ketu does have an essential lesson to teach regarding impermanence, it is not 
necessary for the native to suffer a lifetime of compulsive, subconsciously impelled rejection 
of connection and trust in matters of Ketu's domain. 

It is very difficult to manage Rahu's obsessive-compulsive desires. However, it is not so hard 
to manage Ketu. 


Luckily the reptile brain does not have to dominate human life. Conscious natives can learn 
to manage many historic, subconsciously driven compulsions -- even the most natural, 
largely bio-chemical, 'hard-wired' survival fears. Calm awareness of one's habitual 
rejection of completeness will go a long way toward resolving the malefic effects of Shri 
Ketu. The area of most dramatic rejection will be Ketu's birth domain (see table of Ketu in 
Houses, below). 


That same calm awareness can transform Shri Ketu's fearful effects into an overall positive 
spiritual experience of appreciation of impermanence. These two phenomena are really two 
sides of the same coin. The difference is that one is physically & emotionally terrifying and 
one is sweetly wise. 


Ketu gives the results of His lord and co-occupants :The most important thing to 
understand about the lunar nodes Rahu and Ketu is that they do not own any houses, and 


they do not own any signs. Rather, Rahu-Ketu function as magnifiers & distorters of the 
their bhava and rashi lords. Rahu-Ketu also amplify any co-tenant grahas within their 
house. 


Ketu contributes frustration and denial wherever he goes in the normal realms of life. Only 
at the highest levels of awareness is Ketu really an asset. However under good 
circumstances Ketu's power of disenchantment can also break the spell of material 
attractions, and show a direct route to enlightenment. 


Producing as He does the irresolvable conflict between Saturn/social law & order versus 
Mars/personal independence, Ketu induces a state of deep frustration and repressed anger 
which alienates the individual from the matters of the house which Ketu occupies. The 
native feels that, in matter's of Ketu's house and its lord, an irresistible force is trying to 
budge an immovable object. The result is traction and deep alienated frustration. 
Furthermore Ketu complicates the expression of his lord and co-occupying planets. Ketu 
and a strong Shukra, the native will have not only the excesses of wealth, beauty, prestige, 
and addiction that this Shukra would have brought independently. Ketu adds a surly, 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 35 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


denying, frustrated to Shukra's effects which result in addiction to food, drugs, sex, and 
elegant company while plunging the individual into great denial about his true behavior. 


Ketu The Great Withholder :Ketu is Rahu's diametrically opposite force. Rahu is 
permissive and expansive like Venus and Jupiter, but Ketu is restrictive and like Shani and 
Mars. Whereas Rahu is passionate and desirous, Ketu is detached and withdrawn. 


The house, degree, sign, aspects, and other characteristics of Ketu show psychic imagery 
that has already been manifested by Rahu,. Under Ketu's influence the matter concerned is 
finished; we have stopped desiring and now wish to separate that matter from ourselves. 
Wherever Ketu is, there the person is detached, impassionate, stopped, and uninvolved with 
the development of those matters. Ketu is a manifestation of Shri Ganesha, the elephant- 
headed god who is the somber, plodding Remover of Obstacles.. 


Ketu is excellent for meditation and withdrawal from the world of the senses but 
understandably Ketu's influence damages any attempt at acquisitions. Ketu will "destroy" 
marriage in the 7th house because he doesn't really care enough to keep the fires of 
affection burning. Ketu gives a spouse but not affection toward the spouse; not passion. 


Ketu will make the person quite unconcerned about financial wealth when he occupies the 
2nd or 11th houses. Financial affairs are blocked in some way, beyond personal control. 
That doesn't mean a person with Ketu in 2 or 11 will be poor. If the house lord is in good 
condition, that person with Ketu in 2 or 11 might have much money at his disposal. But he 
will not care about investing the money, and he will not have permission to change or 
control it. He will not take steps to protect money, develop his wealth, or show much 
attachment to it. Often this position is the spouse or child of a wealthy person, who has 
access to considerable funds but lacks passion for the wealth. 


Ironically, because Ketu's disengaged energy-state has no resistance to money, native with 
Ketu in a money position (2, 5, 9, 11) could be remarkably wealthy as a result of past-life 
labors. Much poverty is caused by resistance to wealth! However whether rich or poor, he 
will be neutral on the subject of acquiring and developing wealth. Like the native with Ketu 
in 7, s/he will accept the presence of a spouse as a social given - but express little truly 
personal interest in marital development 


Ketu, the Spiritual rejuvenator:Ketu shows where the native is the most bewildered & 
confused. Psychically, this is a weak patch in the aura, the protective energy shield of 
positive energy which surrounds each spirit in a body. Humans have much stronger, more 
complex, and "brighter" auras than other earthly forms. The more divine energy that is 
connected to & nourishing a human aura, the "brighter" the person looks psychically. 
They represent the "bright" qualities such as intelligence, charisma, enthusiasm, verve, 
good humor, etc. These qualities are "seen" (with the intuitive third eye) as "bright" 
patches in the aura. Ketu is in charge of the grey patches of foggy uncertainty, apathy, or 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 36 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


confusion which show where the ego in this life is rather disinterested, yet for karmic 
reasons obliged to continue to connect by a thread. Grey is of course the colors of elephant, 
and Shri Ganesha is the elephant-headed god. Remover of obstacles, Ketu is like a 
bulldozer plowing away all unnecessary distractions from our spiritual path. 


That's why results of Ketu are generally "bad" materially ) but "good" spiritually. This 
role of Ketu is hampered by the karmic effects of a compromised Moon or when Ketu's 
planetary lord is inauspicious. The influences of Ketu's house & sign makes the native 
experience confusion, indecision, unclarity. The native remains, foggily and often passive- 
aggressively, engaged with it - often believing that someone else is causing the issue or that 
forces outside himself are at work. Ketu can be highly intuitive but in lower consciousness 
will tend toward superstition because the native passive-aggressively attributes his 
problems to the evil intentions, failures, or incompetence of others. 


As a manifestation of Shri Ganesha, Ketu gives remarkable benefits through disconnection 
and detachment, thereby cutting one's losses, abandoning hopeless projects, leaving 
unsuitable relationships, surrender before annihilation, etc. Ketu is associated with 
radically surgeries - a painful and invasive process which when successful can restore health 
and extend life. After the pain of loss subsides, one confirms this loss to have been a 
spiritual gain. 


TRANSIT OF KETU IN THE RADIX CHART 


The Lagna: Ketu transit of radix lagna, an 18-month period recurs once every 18 years. 
Ambiguity and/or spiritual acuity during which one disconnects from material attachments 
and accepts the separative, polarized nature of perceptions as an external phenomenon with 
no inherent reality. Ketu transit to lagna can be a component in divorce timing, loss of 
employment, forced house moves, loss of habitual environment, loss of identity-validation. 


Surya: The native's ego definition is a blank screen upon which the collective unconscious 
may project its needs and desires. Positive individual ego development is restrained by 
apathy & detachment, giving a reduced capacity for authentic faith in divine intelligence 
while sustaining social immaturity... A natural mystic and philosopher. 


Ethical ambivalence & confusion. Unsure of the effects, and uncommitted to public, 
iconic, or organizational leadership roles. Seeks to lay low. Good position for a 
professional observer or paid critic. In civilized locations, this native must take care to 
observe social and ethical boundaries. 


Chandra: Native is emotionally numbed. The mother is emotionally disconnected, 
disenfranchised, timid, afraid of life, weakened by addiction or emotionally. The native 
may be unsure of one's emotional perceptions. Withdraws from parenting duties; lacks 
enthusiasm for family relationships and feels apathetic. 


Kuja: Physical body uncoordinated and less responsive. Nerves not as sharp; perception 
numbed. Less interested in physical experience. Reduction in vigor. Frustration & 
disappointment in one's own performance. 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 37 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


Budha: Mental confusion, psychic sensitivity, great sensitivity to the mental patterns of 
others in one's environment. Psychic absorptiveness, may feel overwhelmed by the sheer 
amount of intuitive information that the native is receiving. Tendency to believe in 
religious dogmas and ideological tenets without too close inspection of the logical 
implications of those beliefs. 


Guru: Optimism and generosity are distorted. Vague ideas about cosmic 
interconnectedness & righteous action may replace practice of meditation & rituals of 
true religion. 


Ideology can replace faith. Tendency toward cult beliefs and idolatry of guru. May also 
give frustration & confusion about which faith is valid, inability to locate the sangha, 
feeling lost and disconnected from the divine. 


Shukra: Deeply confused about sensual pleasures and love relationships. Difficulty 
placement for a male, because it confuses and deranges the perception of the wife and 
women in general. Difficult for females, due to confusion and uncertainty of one's own 
feminine beauty and entitlement to sensual pleasures. 


Trouble finding the right balance point in all matters of harmonious arrangement and 
good design. Artists will struggle to find a good expression; those who make beautiful 
things may have a weird, out of balance phase of producing odd art. Does not struggle 
against addictions. 


Shani: Separateness and confusion about definition and scope of social duties. Non- 
conformist tendencies. Feels oppressed by customary procedures and social expectations 
yet is disinclined to try something new. Tends to stick with the tried and true yet feels 
restless, undefined, marginalized. 


KETU IN THE TWELVE RASHIS 


In rashi, Rahu-Ketu's primarily give the effects of their rashi lords, & of any co-tenant 
planets which share their house. 


Mesha (Aries): Ketu will blunt the sensitivities of Mangala, making the native less warlike 
& more self-preoccupied, less clear about their external military goals & more concerned 
with their internal warfare. One competes against standards for achievement it is true but 
these will tend to be spiritual standards which have little material value and the warrior 
energies are unlikely to achieve much unique self-definition in external social life. 


Dissatisfied with the basically selfish human condition, & uncomfortable with direct 
competition, the native typically shows a blunted individualism which is neither conformist 
nor marginalist, Males will have less interest in competitive sports; females retreat from 
attention-getting fashion. Good for winning inner battles against addiction or fears; for un- 
conflicted dedication to an organization or ideal. 


Vrishaba (Taurus): Depends absolutely on how Lord Shukra functions in the overall 
nativity. Ketu in Vrishabha rashi will blunt the sensitivities of Venus, making the native 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 38 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


unsure about sensual indulgence. This native can lose himself easily in escapist behaviors of 
sensual and sexual pleasure. 


If Shukra is strong, then drugs, alcohol, fine fabrics, lovely appearances, delicious foods & 
scented oils will find this native easily. However, no amount of pleasure will be satisfying to 
this person. The body's cravings are never fulfilled; desires only increase, without 
satisfaction. 


This native seeks deepest fulfillment through marriage & love relationships but that area of 
life is precisely where he is most disenchanted. His love behavior will be seen by outsiders as 
"passive-aggressive" because the native simultaneously wants sensual love & pleasure, 
while rejecting it. 


Ketu in Vrishabha either self-destructs through sensual addictions or develops a very 
selective sensual filter, allowing the native to pursue only those pleasures which advance 
specific spiritual goals. 


Mithuna (Gemini): Depends absolutely on how Lord Budha functions in the overall 
nativity. Ketu will blur the mental-communicative sensitivities of Mercury, making the 
native dissatisfied with mundane communications and likely to twist, evade, mystify, or 
ignore communicative convention. 

The native relies on a few phrases or devices, and does not make the effort to articulate his 
speech or gestures. When Ketu is yuti Budha in swakshetra, the native's verbal and written 
communication is difficult to understand even whilst he may be multi-lingual or work in a 
media job! Often exaggerated speed or a speech defect will be the culprit. 


Karaka (Cancer):Depends absolutely on how Lord Chandra functions in the overall 
nativity. This is more true of the Moon than any other planet. Ketu will blunt the 
sensitivities of Moon, making the native emotionally detached and impersonal in their 
nurturing style. 


Frequently the mother or primary nurturer rejects the native either overtly or covertly. The 
native is perpetually dissatisfied with their home conditions, and may be afraid of water. 


Simha (Leo): Depends absolutely on how Lord Surya functions in the overall nativity. 
When occupying Simha rashi, Ketu will blunt the ethical sensitivities of Sun, making the 
native ambivalent about creative ego-expression in general and about assuming moral 
authority in particular. Consistent with Ketu's passive-aggressive style, this native is prone 
to criticizing the leadership positions of others and trying to undermine ethical claims, 
rather than making positive suggestions toward constructive ways of channeling Divine 
intelligence. 


They are attracted into support roles in theatre & politics, where they can mingle with 
celebrities without actually opening their hearts to the hot energy of truth. Moral 
uncertainty surrounds but does not unsettle them. 


Ketu with Surya in swakshetra may yield a creative genius who expresses unworldly sounds 
and color. Past-lives associated with cult of the Sun-priest; they have been sacrificed & 
although they love the celebrity they are naturally wary of abuse of power. 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 39 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


Kanya (Virgo): Depends absolutely on how Lord Budha functions in the overall nativity. 
Ketu will blunt the mental-organizational sensitivities of Mercury, making the native a 
curator & collector of concepts & ideas which lack direction & serve little practical 
purpose. 


May pursue dead-end analytical philosophy, or elaborately documented yet unfounded 
conspiracy theories. Mistakenly they substitute a vast collection of details for an actual 
system, i.e., they miss the forest for the trees at least intellectually. Verbally inconsistent 
but insight is profound. Spiritually the information is good & liberating. One follows 
circuitous analytical paths, mentalizing when they should be meditating & meditating 
when they should be mentalizing, always frustrated & dissatisfied with the value & 
purpose of their knowledge base.mentalizing, always frustrated & dissatisfied with the 
value & purpose of their knowledge base. 


Thula (Libra): Depends absolutely on how Lord Shukra functions in the overall nativity. 
Ketu will blunt the artistic & architectural sensitivities of Venus, making the native 
ambivalent about balance & design, and thwarting his relationship management skills. His 
sense of natural balance, fairness, and justice in the larger sense being lost in a fog, the 
native is likely to err in judgment on social & personal matters. 


One is disliked, considered unaesthetic, badly dressed, or somehow an icon of poor taste in 
one's society. In situations where polite negotiation of meaning or identity is required, one 
lacks the grace to introduce oneself properly or make the other party feel balanced in one's 
company. Ketu with Shukra/swakshetra may produce a genius of unorthodox costume 
design, or an avant-garde style in arts or theatre. 


Vrischika (scorpio): Depends absolutely on how Lord Mangala functions in the overall 
nativity. Ketu will blunt the sensitivities of Mars, making the native ambivalent about 
tantric healing, profound therapeutic change, and the reality of trauma. He spends much of 
his life force in the project of denying the existence of psycho-spiritual energies; he 
disregards magic; and he avoids therapeutic engagement in conscious change. 


Ketu yuti swakshetra Mangala could under favorable circumstances produce a tantrika of 
great ability. Such a person under proper guidance might become an effective channel for 
planetary healing although working from the dark side. 


Dhanus (Sagittarius): Depends absolutely on how Lord Brihaspati functions in the overall 
nativity. Ketu will blunt the sensitivities of Jupiter, making the native ambivalent about the 
reality of fundamental goodness, world family, All-One, and other blessings of the Divine 
which penetrate the veil of our human sadness and bring spiritual light into human 

lives. This native is curmudgeonly, unable to recognize the value of education, religion, or 
charity. He tends toward atheism and survival-of-the-fittest market economics. He dislikes 
group activities and does not celebrate holidays. 


Detachment from religion and even from humanism may be a good thing when looking 
objectively at what can be done to advance humanity's situation on the global scale. It may 
be clarifying to be free of idealistic, ideological attachment when constructing 
comprehensive world visions. 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 40 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


Makar (Capricorn): Depends absolutely on how Lord Shani functions in the overall 
nativity. Ketu will blunt the hierarchical, caste sensitivities of Saturn, making the native 
taciturn without benefit of realism, and expecting protection from the hierarchy without 
knowledge of or commitment to their position in that hierarchy. In general Ketu is 
problematic in Shani's signs where groundedness & practical good sense are important for 
basic survival on the material plane. Good position for truly religious political leaders or the 
wandering mendicant who takes physical sustenance from temples & government rationing 
programs. 


Kumbha (Aquarius): Depends absolutely on how Lord Shani functions in the overall 
nativity. Ketu will blunt the populist, democratizing sensitivities of Saturn, making the 
native ambivalent about his role in the marketplace. Kumbha is in general a highly abstract 
sign, famous for its esoteric theories and special interest groups which have little connection 
to the survival reality of the global population yet purport to be universal in nature. 
Kumbha is the solar or rational side of Shani's domain, concerned primarily with 
equalizing exchange networks of the marketplace not with the emotional security of fixed 
caste (Makara). Ketu here gives reluctance to participate in networks of association and 
dislike of the masses. 


Ketu with swakshetra Shani is likely to produce extreme disengagement from earthly 
politics and distrust of human social movements, marginalizing the native and forcing the 
group-think scope into galactic or even cosmic range 


This is a science-fiction orientation with a mind that wanders across the universe in search 
of a culture weird enough and 'safe' enough but also familiar enough to identity with. 

Might be a gifted sci-fi script writer or mathematician or computer programmer if Budha is 
strong. Otherwise, seeks anonymity and intellectual distance through cold logic. Could live 
in isolation & socialize exclusively via computer networks. Very detached person. 


Meena (Pisces): Depends absolutely on how Lord Brihaspati functions in the overall 
nativity. Ketu will blunt the sensitivities of Jupiter, making the native ambivalent about the 
world of private imagery, traveling in the spirit world, and one's natural communion with 
all sentient beings. 


May be intensely intuitive, aware of the presence of fairies, elves, devas, deities, & spirit 
beings of many classes. Dispassionately observes the sorrows of the wandering. Accepts 
wandering, accepts a disconnected, dreamlike state; accepts the vast cosmic viewpoint. This 
native is lonely and worried about their well-being; naturally withdrawn. One avoids 
formal or actively engaged meditation and sanctuaries such as ashrams and monasteries, 
although ironically in a state of extreme detached awareness of the interconnectedness of all 
life, they are exemplary models of meditative neutrality. 


KETU IN THE TWELVES BHAVAS 


Wherever Ketu resides, long-term success in matters of that domain is inhibited by Doubt. 
One doubts the appropriateness and adequacy of one's connection to the person or activity 
signified by Ketu's house. Material matters of the house will suffer ambivalence & Benign 
Neglect 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 4] 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


It is extremely important to notes that the results of Ketu have to be considered by the 
strength and placement of the sign lord as well as the other planets co-tenanting and 
aspecting Ketu. 


Bhava 1:The native gains psychic sensitivity of the ego-detached, has a great awareness of 
others' needs. One is always reinventing oneself, purging one. Extraordinary ability to 
reflect the aspirations and psychic projections of the public. The native is available to public 
Idealization. May have trouble respecting the boundaries of others. 


Rahu will be in house-7. Spouse is hungry for experience with a passionate & adventurous 
nature; this may be unsettling for the native 


Long-term material success is inhibited by doubt regarding the ability to connect with 
body and social identity : 


- Neglects the social identity ; self, body, public image, musculature, 
competitiveness, appearance, physical strength 


- Insensitive or detached to issues of : integrity, wholeness, self-knowledge, loss of 
wealth, loss of historic family traditional identity, independence, newness, 


Often indicates that the native becomes exceedingly famous due to "passive absorption" of 
the public projected fantasy image. Craves for spiritual solitude and feels disconnected 
from the Madding Crowd. 


Bhava 2:Peculiar speech, odd values, detachment from money & family traditions. Deeper 
spiritual values can enter once the more superficial values are blocked. May have strong 
intuition & a psychic insight into the past. 


Detached from customary values expressed through face, teeth, & hair. Neglects the upkeep 
of overall appearance. May acquire wealth yet have no firm idea on how to use /enjoy 
/invest /spend it. Often wastes it. Acquisition of wealth and ancient knowledge. Worry 
about finances in general. The threat of government fines looms at times. Carefulness & 
control over your speech could lead to success. 


Bhava 3:A natural meditator. Loses support from siblings, weakens energy, courage, self- 
made wealth, neighbors, etc for an ultimately good result of calm inwardness. Prone to 
mental health problems, fragmented communications, hesitation to connect with people in 
the immediate environment leading to isolation due to a depressed & disconnected, 
impractical & oversensitive nature. 

Fascinated by role of intuition in decision-making, yet often unable to deploy intuitive 
thinking with good results. Inconsistent decisions, unpredictable mental state. Rahu will be 
in house-9, giving wealth through a variety of types of income. 


Doubt regarding ability to connect with: siblings, close neighbors, meetings, 
communications media, training, writing, sales, marketing, advertising, public relations, 
mental tasking, mental process, mental health, gestures, hand movements, articulation, 
hearing, presentations, administration, small group process, neighborhood or village 
panchayat, teams and teamwork, coordination, village talk, loss of security, loss of 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 42 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


property, loss of boundaries around the nuclear family. Neglects the siblings, team-mates, 
neighbors; in the mind, neglects the daily tasks and mental process; little effort to produce 
good communication. 


Affluence is sacrificed at the altar of peace. 


Bhava 4:Doubt regarding ability to connect with: home, mother, property, customs of the 
mother's family, real estate, vehicles, education, social security, socialization, emotional 
security, protection, customs & manners, licensing, kitchens, roots, gardens, houses, 
buildings, loss of children, loss of creativity, old age, beginnings and endings. Neglects: 
home, roots, properties, socialization, licensing, basic education, the mother and her 
people. 


Adequately stable home environment if Ketu's lord is strong, but the native is always 
insecure & dissatisfied with these. The 4th house is mother, the heart, & home life, real 
estate. These things in your life may be a little troublesome. 


Bhava 5:One longs for: children & romance but cannot sustain it. Can give literary 
authorship, children, & entertainments if Ketu's lord is strong, but the native always 
insecure & dissatisfied with these. 


Rahu will be in house-11, giving surprising wealth through a variety of types of income. 
Ppowerful in some way mentally, & you at times have power over others Can sermonize 
well, and have an inclination for holy pilgrimage & foreign travel. Knowledge & learning 
may be denied at times. 


This native should never gamble or play games for money because they do not understand 
speculation & Ketu makes a victim. 


Doubt regarding ability to connect with: children, romantic partners (not spousal), 
performance arts, speculation, gambling, creativity, genius, self-expression, politics/political 
campaigns, literary pursuits, theatre, acting, self-publishing, poetry, dance. Some harm 
comes from excess or irregular pleasures. 


Bhava 6:One longs for exploitative power & access to drugs, but cannot sustain it. 
Gives underworld connections, drugs & usury if Ketu's lord is strong, 


Malefic graha in dusthamsha give good results. Gives openness to foreign philosophies 
without rational understanding of them; confusion or disrespect for the law but usually no 
entrapment; gives involvement with medicine & finance again without understanding, 
typically as a loan-holder or drug-taker. Retreats into self-medication out of despair. 


Malefics are typically beneficial in a dusthana. Ketu gives Doubt matters of police, illness, 
crime, drugs, and social conflict. Life is easier with some detachment from the classic evils 
of domain-6. The native could become a crime victim thought inattentiveness, not taking 
seriously the enthusiasm of criminals for their work! Neutral placement per se, but can be 
harmful if disconnected, disenchanted Ketu is yuti another graha; then illness may result. 


Bhava 7:The native longs for committed, sexually intimate partnership & reliable marriage. 
The partners are withdrawn into themselves, often narcissistic or so concerned with their 
own selves that they cannot participate in partnerships. Ketu does not prevent marriage. 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 43 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


Ketu gives restless dissatisfaction with the spouse. Gives an "inappropriate" or 
"disconnected" or "unavailable" spouse. 

Ketu creates a severe challenges to reach lasting interpersonal agreements. Native may 
instinctively respond to the partner's withdrawal using fear-driven excessive control but 
this further alienates the Other. Joint assets are developed & children are produced, but the 
underlying connection between the spouses is "headless", undirected 


Inability to connect with: marriage partnership, business partnership, mutual interests, law 
courts, legal judgments, states of balance, mutual alignment, diplomacy, agreements, 
promises, contracts, negotiations, arbitration, mediation, advisers, peer relationships of all 
kinds. Neglects: the spouse, the partner, partnerships, contracts, agreements, balancing, law 
courts, legal decisions, trade agreements, shared objectives, mutual interests. 


Shil-Ponde in the 1939 edition of Hindu Astrology Joytisha-Shastra. p 280, states: 

"If Ketu be in the seventh house at birth, the partner will die during [Ketu] period or be 
separated from the native. He will suffer from urinary complains and some disease of the 
generative organs. He will encounter many obstacles to his career and will lose money 
because of the rivalry and competition of enemies." 


Bhava 8:Longs to receive the legacy of hidden secrets & deep healing. Gives some 
relationship with tantric traditions if Ketu's lord is strong, but the native always insecure & 
dissatisfied with his knowledge. Malefic graha in dusthamsha give good results. Makes his 
own way on his own terms. Rahu in house-2 which can create significant wealth from 
family legacy, but the native may not know or care how to invest it. 


May create a healer or counselor who can guide others through the turnings of the wheel 
of birth & death. There may be karma of mishandling the joint assets of marriage such as 
running up credit card bills in the spouse's name, or making giant purchases/decisions 
without consulting financial/legal advisors. Generally foggy & confused about how to 
handle jointly held assets. Hesitant to trust the partner's family or partner's values. Fears 
that the partner will exploit them through secret dealings. Can be tempted to file false 
insurance claims, invest money they don't have, and claim expertise they do not possess. 


Circumstance of death are weird & difficult to detect. Death in mysterious conditions; 
native disappears. Tantra, hidden process, secret traditions, mystery schools, healing, 
spouse's wealth, in-laws, assets of marriage, confidential information, therapy, 
transformation, recycling, conditions of death, death of the first spouse, divorce, secrets, 
loss of priestly dignity. This person does not expend the effort to keep confidences. 
Neglects: mysteries of life, taxes, insurance, surgery, therapy, confidentiality, secrecy, 
tantra, magic, marital in-laws, joint contributions to the wealth of marriage partnership, 
circumstance of death. 


Ketu involves you in "secret matters." Under this impulse, you may join secret mystical 
societies, pursue occult studies, indulge in socially unapproved activities, or use unethical 
methods to attain your goals. Danger from conveyance. Suffer from piles & fistula etc. 
Fear & danger of fall from horseback. Difficult in the return of advances given as loan. 
May have an eye on the wealth & the spouse of another. 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 44 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


Bhava 9:Longs for the guru, for ceremonial roles & advanced religious truth and can give 
priesthood in elite societies if Ketu's lord is strong, but the native always insecure & 
dissatisfied with these. 


Natural ascetic who may preach against religious pageantry and misuse of priestly 
privilege. Disconnected from the sangha. Ambivalent about religion, ritual or moral. 
Typically agnostic. 


Inhibited by doubt reegarding ability to connect with religious fellowship, priesthood, 
ritual religion, professorship, universities, father, guru, spouse's younger sibling, sangha, 
religious discussions, philosophy, temples, worship traditions, good fortune in general, 
grandchildren, loss of public leadership roles, wisdom, spiritual knowledge transmission. 
Neglects: dharma, religious fellowship, priestly duties, moral philosophy, ritual 
performance, university collegiality, one's father, one's guru, one's grandchildren, temple 
visits. 


Karaka for religious conversion. There is the experience is religious connection to the 
spirits. Seeks religious teachers, yet is dissatisfied with them. Must apprehend the 
spiritual world directly. Produces a different vision, a new approach to the problems of 
life, & consequently a sublime ethic of its own. Fortune & favor through foreigners. 
Generosity is considered a boast. May be a leader or advisor, fame, glory, wisdom, 
generosity, kindness & devotion. 


Bhava 10:Longs for public prestige & professional honors but Ketu in domain-10 knows 
little dignity in public, nor honorable duty or prideful profession. Wants recognition, 
praise, & success, proof of worthiness & social value - yet high 


honors evade him. Confused about how to gain public respect, unable to connect with & 
understand the expectations of responsible service roles. 


A person of strong internal character who bases their self-esteem mainly on their 
connection with the divine, might gain tremendous influence as a prophet or mystic 
oracle. 


Inability to connect with leadership, career, profession, public dignity, respect of the 
majority, public image, responsibility for social group, executive decision making, 
accountability in public office, conformity to public moral standards, trustworthiness, 
spouse's homeland and property, customs of the spouse's mother's people. Neglects: 
public dignity, leadership duties, public responsibilities, public opinion, reputation, 
building temple wealth, the father's wealth, the guru's values, etc. 


Bhava 11: 


Yearns for lasting community & clever means of income. Either Rahu or Ketu in 11 can produce 
wealth; but Rahu is attached to it while Ketu is not. Gives a peculiar stream of income & some 
detached friends if Ketu's lord is strong, but the native always insecure & dissatisfied with these. 


In ability to connect with: marketplace, gains, income, profits, networks, large social groups of 
friends, community, elder sibling, conceptual & electro-mechanical networks, assemblies, secular 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 45 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


fellowship, loss of privacy, conferences and gatherings. Neglects: networks of friends, elder sibling, 
marketplace connections, gains of all kinds, assemblies, electronic and material networks, one's 
skin, one's nerves, one's own hopes & aspirations. 


In domain-11, the experience is achieving goals through networks of association in the 
agora. Natural malefics will, over time, give good results in upachaya houses (3, 6, 10, 11). 


Bhava 12: 


In the sanctuary and house of expenditure, meditation & loss, Ketu longs for peaceful mind and 
bed pleasures. Ketu is the planet of disconnection & vyayasthana is the house of disconnection, so 
despite initial restlessness, the native settles into enthusiastic "giving away" of all attachments - 
which weren't going to last anyway. Malefic graha in dusthana give good results. One is 
disconnected from his inner sanctuary but he becomes available for helping those most deeply in 
need. There is always an increasing alignment with the Divine cycle of manifestation & 
dissolution, breathing in & breathing out. 


As always with Rahu-Ketu the planetary lord defines Ketu's effect. If the lord is a strong benefic 
there can be great waste seeking after bed pleasures. More sensible approach to loss if the lord is a 
neutral or malefic. However even this resolves with time. 


Will wander aimlessly, disregarding offers of sanctuary. Will also "hop fences" and cross barriers 
as one has little regard for separations or boundaries, personal, ethical, ethnic, religious, legal, or 
material. 


Thinks of spiritual life as real and true and material accumulation is not the aim of life. 

Therefore, gradually through life, you spend more of your time & energy towards serving good 
causes. One does well because of their sincere approach to life. A natural malefic in a dusthana 
generally gives quite good results. 


XVI PLANETS AND PHYSIOLOGY 
ae cua 
Name , P=Pitta | Devata (Salva, Maha "| Sapta Physiology/Disease 
= R=Rajas Bhuta | Dhatu 
K=Kaph 2 
a) T=Tamas) 
head, brain right eye, bile, 
Surya ; : : : 
; Tejas Asti organ of voice, heart as life- 
P Agni S : P : 
S (Fire) | (Bones) centre, arteries, veins,fever, 
— cholera, blood pressure 
face lungs, lymph, left eye, 
Chandra Jala glands, tonsils, womb, 
V/K Maia S (Water isch breasts, blood-circulation, 
Moon ) stomach, kidneys, phthysis, 
cold, cough, lunacy, colics 
bile, muscles, sinews, nose 
M l 9 9 9 
oats P — T Tejas Madya digestive, fire, reproductive 
(Fire) | (Marrow) | organs, intestine, dysentry, 
Mars manya 


piles, typhoid, cholera, pox, 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 46 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


boils, accident 


Budha 


Mercury 


V/P/K 


Vishnu 


Prithvi 
(Earth 


Skin 


tongue, bronchial tube 
bowels, sensorium, nerve 
centres, gastric juice, hands, 
epilepsy, loss of memory or 
speech, dyspepsia, vertigo 


Guru 


Jupiter 


Indra 


Medha 
(Fat) 


liver, ears, navel hips, 
physical development, palate, 
throat,dyspepsia, cough, 
cold, asthma, thrombosis, 


diarrhoea, phthysis 


Sukra Jala 
Venus 


reproductive organs, kidneys 
fluids, secretion, emission, 
venereal disease asthma, 
diabetes, phthysis, cough, 
cold 


Semen/O 


papas (Wate) | vula 


Saturn 


knees, feet, legs, gall bladder, 
respiratory system, nerves, 
gout, indigestion, dyspepsia, 
rheumatism, rickets, 
insanity, consumption 


Brahm Mamsa 


(Muscles) 


Rahu 
Dragon's | V T 
Head 


Alimentary canal, excretory 
system, indigestion, gas 
accumulation in stomach or 
intestines, skin disease, 
insectbite, hiccough, swelling 


Ketu 


Dragon's 


nervous system, spine 
poisoning, plague 
consumption, fever, wounds, 
snake bite 


xXVI SIGNIFICATION OF PLANETS 

THE SUN: The Sun is the king in the planetary cabinet. It is the source of light and life. It 
signifies father, which is the source for bringing into existence and supporting a new born in 
life. That is why the Sun signifies father and vitality. If the Sun is strong in a nativity, the 
father and vitality will help the native to grow in a healthy way. The Sun signifies also the 
king, the master, the government, the president of the country, highly-placed persons, 
administrators, contractors, chairmen of industrial establishments, physicians, chemists, 
pharmacists, bureaucrats, politicians, police, power, social status, progeny, male child, and 
is secondary significator for husband. As the Sun is personified as a king and doctor, when 
strong it denotes high administrative positions in government, including politics, doctors in 
medicine, etc., self-confidence, courage, nobility, dignity, ambition, splendor, prestige, faith, 
loyalty, generosity, authority, power, leadership and creativity. 


The Sun is a male planet, hot, dry, constructive, satvic, pitta, and has sturdy bones. Its 
nature is royal, benevolent and cruel and its temperament is fixed and steady. The Sun gives 
a square body, majestic appearance, powerful speech, makes a person courageous and 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 47 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


bestows administrative capabilities. Its complexion is blood red and it rules orange, pink 
and golden colors, the fire element, hot or pungent flavors, the sense of sight, the Sundays, 
the east direction, copper, gold, ruby, temples, deserts, palaces, government buildings, and 
towers. 


The Sun represents head, body, soul, ego, Self, intelligence, will power, clarity, self- 
realization, health, bone structure, constitution, blood, brain, bile, digestive fire, organ of 
voice, heart as life-centre, right eye for males and left eye in case of females. In case it is 
weak in a nativity, it gives weak eyesight, headaches, erratic blood circulation, heart 
trouble, dental problems, bone fractures, overheating, fevers, blood pressure, baldness, 
neuralgia, bone cancer, weak immune system, etc., and denotes pride, egotism, self- 
centeredness, pompousness, ostentation and despotism. The Sun is significator planet for 
vitality and life giver in any nativity, because it rules the digestive system which provides 
nourishment to the whole body. As the soul can be better and easily elevated if one keeps 
perfect health, it also represents the soul. The Sun is also general significator for 
employment, inheritance, mental inclinations, professional position, comforts, creative 
intelligence, easy gains, general fortune, higher education, spiritual education and spiritual 
life. 


THE MOON:The Moon is the queen in the planetary cabinet. Next to the Sun, the role of 
the Moon is very important as it signifies mother. The mother brings up the child and is the 
first preceptor of the child. That is why the Moon signifies mind also. If the position of the 
Moon is strong in a nativity, the mother will be having sufficient resources and will bring up 
the child and develop the child's mental faculties in a peaceful manner. The Moon acts as a 
nourishing and soothing agent. It rules the senses and the emotions and gives the native the 
capability of looking after, which includes the fields of training, public relations, 
administration and soothing (physician). The Moon signifies also the queen, hoteliers, 
public relations, moneylenders, sailors, house-keepers, physicians, nurses, midwifes, 
healers, psychic abilities, eating establishments, cooks, catering and other professions that 
deal directly with the people at large, and is secondary significator for wife. The Moon 
enjoys status in administration by virtue of being the wife of the king. When strong, the 
native does not have to strive for acquiring status and it denotes affluence, receptivity, 
sensitivity, imagination, good memory, meritorious deeds and sound habits. 


The Moon is a female planet, cold, moist, mild, satvic and its constitution is a mixture of 
vata and kapha. Its nature is royal, has auspicious looks, pleasant speech and its 
temperament is fickle and changeable. The Moon is volatile as it is changing its position 
daily. Depending upon the brightness of the Moon, while a weak Moon gives a slim body, a 
full Moon may give a plump body if it is connected with the ascendant or its lord in a 
powerful way, in isolation. Its complexion is tawny and it rules white and silver colors, the 
water element, salty flavors, the sense of taste, the Mondays, the northwest direction, 
bronze, silver, pearl, watery places, public places, hotels, hospitals and ships. 


The Moon represents face, mind, consciousness, perception, feelings, tolerance, thought, 
intellect, receptivity, femininity, sensitivity, imagination, good memory, fertility, general 
weakness, emotional health and functional health as it governs fluids in body, good quality 
of blood and lymph, glands, tonsils, breasts, stomach, lymphatic system, face, lungs and 
chest. It governs the left eye in the case of males and ovaries, menstrual cycle, uterus, 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 48 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


generative organs and right eye in the case of females. In case it is weak in a nativity, 
besides psychic problems it causes sleep disorders, lethargy, drowsiness, lung problems, 
mouth problems (including loss of taste), neurological disorders, epilepsy, digestive 
complains, water retention, blood disorders, anemia, blood-pressure, enlargement of spleen, 
diseases of the uterus and ovaries, tuberculosis, menstrual disorders, and the native is 
vulnerable to frequent cough and cold, fever, lack of appetite, general weakness, etc., and 
denotes hyper-sensitivity, over-reaction, inability to respond and difficulty getting in touch 
with feelings. The Moon is also general significator for sleep, nourishment, public, social 
behavior, change, travel, basic education, comforts, emotional peace, family, financial 
solvency, happy married life, inheritance, income and gains, love and care, mental peace, 
milk, grains and liquids. 


MARS:Mars is the commander-in-chief of the planetary cabinet. It signifies courage both 
mental and physical. Mars denotes position in military and para-military forces, police, 
vocations employing fire and metals, engineering, chemicals, surgeons, dentists and 
executive posts. It governs gangsters, manufacturers, executioners, athletes, builders, 
designers, entrepreneurs, fire-fighters, martial arts, mechanics and project erectors. Mars is 
also the general significator of younger brothers, which adds to the strength of the native 
and becomes a source of strength and courage. The weakness of Mars makes a man lacking 
in courage and not enjoying the help and comforts from the younger brothers. When strong 
in the nativity, it denotes thirst for action, passion, ambition, physical strength, goal- 
directed energy, power to carry through, courage, bravery, heroism, competitive and 
fighting spirit, vim and vigor. 


Mars is a male planet, dry, fiery, tamasic and pitta. Its nature is cruel, unrelenting, active 
and generous, and its temperament is violent, angry and rash. Mars gives short stature and 
a stout and well built body, red eyes and thin waist. Its complexion is blood red and it rules 
bright red colors, the fire element, bitter flavors, the sense of sight, the Tuesdays, the south 
direction, copper, red coral, places near fire, kitchens, battlefields, places for aggressive and 
violent or physical contests, football stadiums and military installations. 


Mars represents the chest, bone marrow, blood, bile, digestive fire, intestine, forehead, neck, 
muscular system, acuity of vision, sinews, nose and external generative organs. When 
afflicting or itself being weak and/or afflicted it causes inflammations, overheating, inability 
to tolerate hunger, wounds, burns, accidents, fractures, piles, liver complaints, skin rashes, 
ulcers, lacerations, operations, all sorts of acute complaints, fevers (particularly eruptive), 
epilepsy, mental aberration, tumors, cancer in the muscular parts of the body when closely 
conjunct with Rahu, dysentery, typhoid, cholera, pox and boils, etc., and denotes anger, 
irritability, haste, impatience, inconstancy, lack of drive and courage, and an ‘all-or- 
nothing' attitude. Mars is also general significator for energy, strength, enemy, army, 
accidents, acute diseases, aggressions, assets, immovable properties, motivation, arguments, 
quarrels, fights, explosives, weapons, guns, general health, mechanical or technical ability, 
sports and surgery. 


MERCURY:Mercury is the prince in the planetary cabinet. It basically rules the rational 
mind and speech, analytical faculties, sharp intellect, power of discrimination and 
confidence. Personified as a thinker and knowledgeable in the field of mathematics, 
Mercury signifies advisory roles, astrologers, financial advisors, strategists, business, 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 49 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


commerce, engineering and related fields, research scholars, communicators, editors, 
authors, accountants, bookkeepers, lawyers, experts in analytical works, software engineers, 
auditors, intellectuals, teachers, transporters, publishers, salesmen, traders, mediators, 
diplomats, authors, etc, and is the general significator of friends. When strong in the 
nativity, it denotes a good communicator with intelligence, rationality, imagination, wit, 
cleverness, skill, dexterity, verbal and mental ability, shrewdness, sound judgment, humor 
and flexibility. 


Mercury is a eunuch planet, rajasic and tri-dosha i.e. its constitution is a mixture of vata, 
pitta and kapha. Its nature is royal, friendly and its temperament is volatile and versatile. 
Mercury has the best appearance, is witty, fond of jokes and laughter, when strong in the 
natal chart as lord of the ascendant. Attractive features, well proportioned body, large eyes 
and witticism are its significations. The complexion of Mercury is akin to that of grass and 
it rules green colors, the earth element, mixed or varied flavors, the sense of smell, the 
Wednesdays, the north direction, brass, emerald, places for sports, business, 
communication or transportation, airports, post offices, accounting offices, places where 
public but non-violent games are played, parks, libraries, bookstores and public assemblies. 


Mercury represents the lower part of abdomen, skin, mind, nervous system, urinary 
bladder, bronchial tube, gastric juice, digestion, intestines, lungs, tongue, mouth, hands and 
arms. When weak, it causes psychic diseases, insomnia, nervous breakdown, epilepsy, skin 
diseases, leucoderma, impotence, loss of memory or speech, vertigo, deafness, asthma, 
diseases of respiratory canal, disorders of intestines, dyspepsia, etc., and denotes difficulty 
in thought and communication, timidity, low self-esteem, aloofness, amorality, expediency, 
over-intellectualization and poor discrimination. As Mercury is weak quite frequently, 
whenever its sub-period is in operation in any nativity it creates tensions in life, lack of 
confidence, situation of indecisiveness, etc., which ultimately leads to faulty decisions. The 
effect is more if Mercury is weak in the natal chart as well as in transit at the time of 
operation of its sub-periods. It makes a person a nervous wreck and can even cause 
paralysis when closely afflicted by Rahu-Ketu axis, if the ascendant and its lord are also 
weak or the sign Virgo falls in the ascendant. Mercury is also general significator for 
consciousness, communications, eloquence, learning, childhood, logic, maternal uncles, 
potency, nervous control, respiratory functions, basic and higher education, humor, wit, 
mathematics, professional position, psychic ability, speculation, short journeys, books, 
papers, publishing and places of entertainment. 


JUPITER:Jupiter is a minister in the planetary cabinet. It is the preceptor of the gods. 
Jupiter is personified as preceptor, judge and it is linked with the treasury. When strong in 
the nativity, it signifies the fields of top political and administrative positions, chairmen of 
industrial establishments, contractors, financial advisors, bankers, high administrative 
positions in government, kings, politicians, bureaucrats, lawyers, physicians, pharmacists, 
priests, judges, teachers, astrologers, management experts, administrators. It rules also 
propaganda of spirituality, services with the state, teaching, law, financial institutions, 
advisory roles, and is primary significator for husband. If strong, it gives growth, expansion 
and a humanitarian and spiritual outlook, and denotes wisdom, optimism, faith, geniality, 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 50 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


generosity, joviality, humor, idealism and good powers of judgment. It bestows intelligence 
and knowledge of scriptures in its main and sub-periods. 


It signifies elder brother, husband in female nativities, male progeny, wealth, morals, 
sincerity, friends, divine grace, father and in fact all good things in life. 


Jupiter is a male planet, mild, temperate, warm, satvic and kapha. Its nature is saintly, 
generous and its temperament is mild, benign and soft-hearted. Jupiter gives impressive 
and magnificent disposition, thin brown hair, tawny eyes, large body when found strong in 
a nativity and rules the ascendant or influences the lord of the ascendant. Jupiter is 
intelligent and endowed with all the branches of learning. Its complexion is tawny and it 
rules the yellow colors, the ether (akasha) element, sweet flavors, the sense of hearing, the 
Thursdays, the northeast direction, gold, yellow topaz, treasuries, banks, vaults, dignified 
places such as courts of law, prestigious universities, altars, political assemblies, charitable 
institutions, high level financial institutions, monasteries and missions. 


Jupiter represents the hips, the fat tissue, blood, arterial system, glands, liver/gall bladder, 
pancreas gland, digestion, absorptive power, ears/hearing power, navel, feet, physical 
development, palate and throat. When weak, it causes lymphatic and circulatory 
congestion, thrombosis, anemia, tumors, jaundice and other liver complaints, ear problems, 
dyspepsia, flatulence, cough, cold, asthma, phthisis, diabetes and other diseases of pancreas 
glands, etc., and denotes overconfidence, overindulgence, extravagance, immorality, greed, 
materialistic attitude (wanting the best of everything). Jupiter is also general significator for 
elder brothers, father, male progeny, children, teacher, friends, fortune, justice, education, 
charity, wealth, creative intelligence, easy gains, general fortune, higher education, income 
and gains, kindness, mental inclinations, knowledge, happiness, wisdom, morality, virtue, 
dharma, professional position, prosperity, spiritual education, spiritual life, good behavior, 
expansion, compassion, optimism, sincerity, honesty, common sense, divine grace and, in 
fact, all good things in life. 


VENUS: Venus is a minister in the planetary cabinet. It is the preceptor of demons. Venus is 
personified as a preceptor and lover. It rules knowledge of life saving drugs and arts, and 
vocations in the field of financial administration, art, cinema, theatres, paintings, music, 
designing, architecture, interior decorator, modeling, advertising, legal, teaching, hotels, 
medicines, fashion and luxurious items, and is the general significator for wife and/or happy 
married life. When strong in the nativity, it denotes aesthetic sense, worldly knowledge and 
pursuits, psychic ability, potency, pleasures, correct behavior, luxury, beauty, harmony, 
creativity, rich tastes, affection, friendliness, love, gentleness, sociability, clarity, charm, 
harmony, balance, elegance, gracefulness and refined sensuality. 


Venus is a female planet, warm, moist, rajasic and its constitution is a mixture of kapha and 
vata. Its nature is royal, sensual, generous and benevolent and its temperament is easy going 
and accommodating. Venus is joyful in spirit, possesses a slim body, is splendorous and has 
lovely eyes, giving a charming appearance, sharp and beautiful facial cuts, and dark-bright 
and slightly thick curly hair when found strong in a nativity and rules the ascendant or 
influences the lord of the ascendant. Its complexion is fair and it rules royal blue and 
variegated colors, the water element, sour flavors, the sense of taste, the Fridays, the 
southeast direction, silver, diamond, places of pleasure and amusement, theatres, cinemas, 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 51 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


restaurants, bedrooms, art galleries, opera and symphony halls, dance halls, beauty salons, 
elegant shops and clubs. 


Venus represents the pelvis and the sexual organs, desires and yearnings, reproduction, the 
semen/ovum, private parts, kidneys, face, eyes, neck, throat, chin, cheeks, skin, venous 
system, etc. When weak, it causes venereal diseases, diseases of urinary or reproductive 
system, diabetes, anemia, stones in bladder or kidneys, cataract, weakness of sexual organs, 
paralysis, asthma, phthisis, cough, cold, sexual perversions, impotence or inability to have 
sexual relations, loss of bodily luster, etc., and denotes greed, laziness, vanity, ambiguity, 
lack of charm, sentimentality, vice and sensual corruption, and lack of taste and refinement. 
Venus is also general significator for assets, vehicles, conveyances, comforts, luxuries, art, 
dance, drama, music, painting, jewelry, romance, family, marital tie, income and gains, 
prosperity, wealth, materialistic pursuits, opulence, financial solvency, medicine, hypnosis, 
mantras, ornaments, perfumes, flowers, festivals, professional position, musicians, singers, 
songwriters, actors, actresses, artists, dancers, designers, engineers, fashion designers, 
financial advisors, jewelers, perfumers, legal advisors, ministers and teachers. It signifies 
also people dealing with entertainment, pleasure and beauty as well as people that tend to 
earn their livelihoods through arts, romance, silver, delicacies, ornaments and finery, 
poetry, advice or counseling, and fashion design. 


SATURN:Saturn is the servant in the planetary cabinet. It is personified as a statesman and 
leader of low castes and signifies jobs requiring hard work with less remuneration, 
leadership of workers, trying to acquire positions in government services, labor oriented 
industry, routine workers, engineers, real estate agents, research work, scientists, dealing 
with labor, dealing in roots and fruits, dealing with servants, working with spoiled food, 
stones or wooden materials, butchers, dealing with products or activities below the earth, 
etc. When strong in the nativity, it signifies perfection and highest human qualities, 
spirituality, detachment, concentration, inwardness, dutifulness, reliability, honesty, 
humility, sincerity, stability, longevity, authoritativeness, discipline, responsibility, 
conservatism, practicality, realism, durability, eye for detail, sobriety, constancy and 
consistency. 


Saturn is a eunuch planet, cold, dry, contracting, short-tempered, worn-out, tamasic and 
vata. Its nature is cruel, selfish and indolent and its temperament is harsh and hard- 
hearted. Saturn has an emaciated body, long stature, brown and sunken eyes, protruding 
teeth, prominent veins, wrinkles, long hands and face, lazy and melancholic nature, coarse 
and excessive hair when found strong in a nativity and rules the ascendant or influences the 
lord of the ascendant. Its complexion is dark and it rules black, navy blue and bright brown 
colors. 


RAHU:Rahu is personified as a diplomat and a shadowy planet and a legendary deceptor 
when disposed beneficially. Indicates diplomatic jobs, jobs requiring manipulations with 
facts, deals in poisons and drugs. It signifies cheats, pleasure seekers, insincere and immoral 
acts, speculative trading markets, etc. 


It is phlegmatic in nature and gives malignant growth. When afflicting, causes financial 
setbacks, malignant growth, disease of phlegm, intestines, boils, skin, ulcers, spleen, worms, 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 52 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


high blood pressure, etc. It gives smoky and unpleasant appearance due to habits of 
overeating, resulting in foul smells and unclean body and nails. 


KETU:It is dry and fiery in nature. Its affliction causes wounds, inflammations, fevers, 
intestinal disorders, aberrations, low blood pressure, deafness, defective speech and gives 
emaciated body with prominent veins. It is personified as a saint and inclines a person more 
towards mystic science and spiritual pursuits. 


GRAHAYUDHA :[(Graha = planet) + (Yudha = fight) planetary warfare]. An astronomical 
phenomenon resulting from proximity between two planets. It affects their power to 
produce any result. The planets involved in this relationship are rendered unable to bestow 
their beneficence, and become inauspicious. Such a situation occurs when a planet other 
than Moon or the nodes (Rahu.or Ketu) is situated within 50 of the Sun. The planet so 
placed is considered Asthagatha or combust. When such a relationship takes place with 
Moon, it is known as Saniaagama, or combination. Any of the five nonluminaries within 50 
of any other planet causes planetary warfare, or Graha yudiza, and one of the two involved 
in this relationship is said to be vanquished and the other is a victor. The victorious planet 
produces powerful auspicious effects, while the vanquished one becomes inauspicious. The 
house in which this 

phenomenon occurs is destroyed and the individual suffers throughout his life in respect to 
that Bhava (q.v.). There are five kinds of planetary warfare, viz., Bhedam, Ullekham, 
Amsumardhanam, Apasauyam, and Yuddham. 

Bhedain occurs when two planets are within 50 of each other though in different asterisms. 
When they are between 30 and 50 of each other located in the same asterism, they are in 
Ullekha yuddham. When such planets are within a distance of 10 to 30 of each other in the 
same asterism, the relationship is known as Amsumardlianam. If the planets are within one 
degree of the other, they are known as in Graha yuddham proper. If one of the two planets 
within 50 of each other is direct while the other is retrograde, they form Apasavya 
Yuddham. 

The effects of planetary warfare depends upon the conditions classified under Poura Graha, 
Akranta Graha, and Akrita or Yayee Graha. Poura Graha is a planet in a state of 
opposition to another. Akranta Graha is the overpowered, chased, or eclipsed planet. Akriti 
Graha is generally aggressive on the move. The Sun is Poura up to 11 a.m., Akranta at 
noon, and Akrita or feeble in the afternoon. Moon is always overpowered. Mercury, 
Jupiter, and Saturn are always in opposition (Poura), while Mars, Venus, Rahu, and Ketu 
are always aggressive. The effect of Graha yuddha is conditioned by the mood of these 
planets as indicated above. A planet with earlier longitude is said to defeat the planet ahead 
of it. A planet in southern hemisphere is considered defeated. But Venus is always 
victorious. The planet with a fairly larger orb than the other becomes victorious. (See 
Brihat Samhita, Chap. XVII). 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 53 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


XVII OTHER GENERAL CHARACTERISTICS OF PLANETS 


Strong Planets:A strong natal planet protects and promotes its general significations and 
the significations of its mooltrikona house. Any planet is considered strong when it is not in 
the state of weakness. It can increase its strength if: 


a) it is young, i.e. its longitude is between 10° to 20° in a particular sign. 
b) it occupies own or good navamsa and other divisions. 

c) it is under the close influence of the functional benefic planets. 

d) it occupies its exaltation, mooltrikona or own sign. 


Weak Planets:A weak natal planet is not capable of fully protecting/promoting its general 
significations and the significations of its mooltrikona house during the course of its sub- 
periods and during the triple transit functional malefic influences. By descending order of 
weakness, any planet becomes weak when: 


1) The most effective point of its mooltrikona sign is afflicted by a functional malefic planet 
within an orb of one degree. 

2) The most effective point of its house of placement is afflicted by a functional malefic 
planet within an orb of one degree. 

3) It is conjunct or aspected by any functional malefic planet within an orb of one degree. 
4) It is combust due to its nearness to the Sun. 

5) It occupies malefic houses from the ascendant, except if in its own mooltrikona sign. 

6) It occupies its sign of debilitation. 

7) It is in the state of infancy or old-age. 

8) It occupies its debilitated sign in navamsa. 

9) It occupies the mooltrikona sign of a weak planet. 

10) It is the Moon within 72 degrees either side of the Sun. However, this is a minor 
weakness. 


NOTE: In serial nos. (1) to (3) above, when the affliction is special or multiple i.e. when it 
comes from: 


1) a conjunction with/ aspect from the most malefic planet, 

2) an aspect from a functional malefic planet placed in a dusthana, 

3) a conjunction with Rahu or Ketu (Rahu-Ketu axis) 

4) an aspect of a functional malefic planet afflicted by other(s) functional malefic planet, 
5) more than one functional malefic planet at the same time, 

Then the otherwise "strong" planet should be considered afflicted (and weak) even when 
the orb of affliction is of two degrees. 


Afflicted Planets: Whenever a planet is already weak for any other reason and is under the 
close influence of any functional malefic, it is treated as an afflicted planet. But when the 
planet is not weak for other reasons, it can only be considered afflicted under the exact 
influence of any functional malefic, becoming a weak planet for that reason. So whenever 
any planet is afflicted, it becomes weak. The significations of the house having a 
mooltrikona sign of an afflicted planet are harmed. 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 54 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


Afflicting Planets:Only the functional malefic planets can be afflicting planets. 
It is very necessary to understand the difference between afflicting planets and afflicted 
planets. 


Dispositor:Dispositor is a planet in whose moolatrikona sign another planet is located in the 
natal chart. 


QUALITIES AND SEX OF PLANETS 


The Sun, the Moon, Venus and Mercury are of rajasic nature. Jupiter is of satvic. Mars, 
Saturn, Rahu, and Ketu are of tamsic nature. 


The Sun, Mars, and Jupiter are male while the Moon, Venus, and Rahu are female. 
Mercury, Saturn and Ketu are eunuchs. 


FUNCTIONAL NATURE OF PLANETS 


The functional nature of planets is the key analytical factor in the horoscope analysis. 
Besides Rahu and Ketu, the planets, whose mooltrikona signs are in malefic houses (sixth, 
eighth and twelfth) with reference to the ascendant, act as functional malefic planets in a 
nativity. For this purpose, under the Systems' Approach, the sign Cancer is considered as 
the mooltrikona sign of the Moon. 


FUNCTIONAL MALEFIC PLANETS 
The functional malefic planets for various ascending signs are as under: 


Aries: Mercury, Rahu and Ketu. 

Taurus: Venus, Jupiter, Mars, Rahu and Ketu. 
Gemini: Rahu and Ketu. 

Cancer: Jupiter, Saturn, Rahu and Ketu. 

Leo: The Moon, Rahu and Ketu. 

Virgo: Saturn, Mars, the Sun, Rahu and Ketu. 
Libra: Mercury, Rahu and Ketu. 

Scorpio: Mars, Venus, Rahu and Ketu. 
Sagittarius: The Moon, Rahu and Ketu. 
Capricorn: The Sun, Jupiter, Rahu and Ketu. 
Aquarius: The Moon, Mercury, Rahu and Ketu. 
Pisces: The Sun, Venus, Saturn, Rahu and Ketu. 


FUNCTIONAL BENEFIC PLANETS 
The functional benefic planets for various ascending signs are as under: 
Aries: The Sun, the Moon, Mars, Jupiter, Venus and Saturn. 


Taurus: The Sun, the Moon, Mercury and Saturn. 
Gemini: The Sun, the Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus and Saturn. 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 55 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


Cancer: The Sun, the Moon, Mars, Mercury, and Venus. 

Leo: The Sun, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus and Saturn. 

Virgo: The Moon, Mercury, Jupiter and Venus. 

Libra: The Sun, the Moon, Mars, Jupiter, Venus and Saturn. 
Scorpio: The Sun, the Moon, Mercury, Jupiter and Saturn. 
Sagittarius: The Sun, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus and Saturn. 
Capricorn: The Moon, Mars, Mercury, Venus and Saturn. 
Aquarius: The Sun, Mars, Jupiter, Venus and Saturn. 

Pisces: The Moon, Mars, Mercury and Jupiter. 


XIX SHAD BALA 


Shadbala is a powerful source for calculation of planetary strength. It is described in 
chapter 27 of Hora Shastra. Shadbala consists of 6 different sources of strength. Each 
source represents an aspect of strength, such as planetary placement in zodiacal signs or 
aspectual strength. 


Signification 


Planetary strength is important for chart prediction. Strong planets will have auspicious 
effects during their time of influence (Dasas, transits). Weak planets will have inauspicious 
effects. 


Strength of Rasi resp. Bhava lords is another important aspect of the chart. Bhavas will 
have effects according to their strength and the strength of their lords. 


Some sources of strength give hints for special purposes: e.g. Digbala gives informations 
about directions having positive or negative effects. 


Calculation 


The complete Shadbala is the sum of all Balas. Balas are calculated in Rupas or Virupas. 
One Rupa has 60 Virupas. Most sources of strength have values between 0 Virupas (very 
weak) and maximum value of 60 Virupas (very strong). Other sources (like Drekkana Bala) 
have only a maximum value of 30 Virupas. 


Parasara gives required values of strength for each planet. Planets meeting these 
requirements are considered to be strong. These planets will have favourable effects. 


Planets without strength will prove inauspicious. 


TYPES OF SHADBALA 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 56 


ASTROLOGY PART II 


There are 6 main types of Shadbala. Sthana Bala and Kala Bala have several sub-Balas. 
The hierarchy (including translation of Sanskrit terms) is shown below. Please follow the 
links. 


1. Sthana Bala - positional strength 


1.1 Saptavargaja Bala - strength of exaltation 

1.2 Uchcha Bala - divisional strength 

1.3 Ojhajugmariamsa Bala - strength related to placement in odd/even Rasis 
and Navamsas 

1.4 Kendradi Bala - strength of placement in angle, succedent or cadent 
houses 

1.5 Drekkana Bala - strength according to Drekkana placement of planets 


2. Dig Bala - directional strength 
3. Kala Bala - temporal strength 


3.1 Nathonatha Bala - diurnal/nocturnal strength 

3.2 Paksha Bala - strength related to Lunar phase 

3.3 Tribhaga Bala - strength related to portions of the day/night 

3.4 Varsha-Masa-Dina-Hora Bala - strength of astrological year, month, day 
and hour 

3.5 Yudhdha Bala - strength caused by planetary war 

3.6 Ayana Bala - equinoctial strength 


4. Cheshta Bala - motional strength 
5. Naisargika Bala - natural strength 
6. Drig Bala - aspectual strength 


Shad Bala — Sthana Bala 


Sthana Bala is the strength of planetary positions. This kind of strength depends exclusively 
on the zodiacal positions of the planets. Other factors (like speed, Bhava cusps or aspects) 
are neglected in this context. 


There are 5 parts of Sthana Bala. The total Sthana Bala is the sum of these 5 parts. 


No. Sthana Bala Type Description 

1 Uchcha Bala Strength of exaltation 

2 Saptavargaja Bala Divisional strength 

3 Ojhajugmariamsa Bala Placement in odd/even Rasis and Navamsas 

4 Kendradi Bala Placement in Kendra, succedent or cadent houses 
5 Drekkana Bala Drekkana placement of planets 


1. UCHCHA BALA 


Uchcha Bala is a measure for the distance between a planet and its exaltation point. 


Each planet gets 1 Rupa in exaltation and zero in debilation. Other positions contribute a 
proportional value. 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 57 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


Rule: Find out the distance between a planet an its debilation point (max is 180). Uchcha 
Bala (in Virupas) will be one third of this value. 


Uchcha Bala Example 


Let the Sun be in 12 Gemini. Debilation is in 10 Libra. Distance between both points 
is 118 deg. So Uchcha Bala will be 118/3 = 39.3 Virupas. 


2. SAPTAVARGAJA BALA 
Saptavargaja Bala is the divisional strength of seven Vargas (Saptavargas). Saptavargaja 
Bala is similar to Saptavarga calculation, but the evaluation is different, and there is no 


weigthed evaluation, i.e. all Vargas have the same contribution. 


The seven Vargas are 


"  Rasi (D-1) 
» Navamsa (D-9) 
" Hora (D-2) 


= Decanate (D-3) 

« Saptamamsa (D-7) 
" Dvadasamsa (D-12) 
"  Trimsamsa (D-30) 


Each Varga placement contributes a strength according to the placement in the planet's 
sign. 


Placement Strength (Virupas) 
Moolatrikona 45 
Onw Rasi 30 
Extreme friend (Adhi 20 
Mitra) 
Friend (Mitra) 15 
Neutral (Sama) 10 
Enemy (Satru) 4 
Extreme Enemy (Adhi 

2 
Satru) 


Theoretical maximum value for Saptavargaja Bala is 45*7=315 Virupas (Planet in 
Moolatrikona for all Vargas). 


To note: 


1. Strength calculation is not the same as in Saptavarga calculation. 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 58 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


2. Exaltation and debilation play no role in Saptavargaja Bala. 
3. Mboolatrikona placement in Varga charts is calculated according to sign position not 
to length (because there is no length in higher Varga charts). 
There are different opinions about temporary friendship of planets. Some say that 
temporary friendship is always relative to Rasi placement of planets, others say that this 
friendship must be calculated from the underlying Varga chart 
3. OJHAJUGMARIAMSA BALA 


Ojhajugmariamsa Bala is about the placement of the planets odd/even Rasis and Navamsas. 


Female planets (Moon, Venus) get 15 Virupas if they are placed in in even Rasi/Navamsa, 
zero otherwise. 


Male planets (Sun, Mars, Jupiter) and neutral planets (Mercury, Saturn) get 15 Virupas if 
they are placed in in odd Rasi/Navamsa, zero otherwise. 


This calculation must be made for Rasi an Navamsa chart separately, i.e. a planet can get a 
maximum of 30 Virupas for this kind of strength. 


Ojhajugmariamsa Bala Example 

Moon in 1 Pisces gets 15 Virupas for Rasi placement in odd sign and 15 Virupas for 
placement in female Navamsa (Cancer). The total Ojhajugmariamsa Bala is therefore 30 
Virupas. 


4. KENDRADI BALA 


Kendradi Bala evaluates the fact that planets in angles (Kendras) are stronger than planets 
in succedent or cadent houses. 


Each planet in angle gets full strength (60 Virupas), planets in succedent houses get 50% of 
strength (30 Virupas), while planets in cadent houses only get 25% (15 Virupas). There is no 
distinction between male and female planets etc. in this Bala type. 


The table below shows the Kendradi Bala for all houses. 


. 4. Kendradi BalaKendradi Bala evaluates the fact that planets in angles (Kendras) are stronger 
than planets in succedent or cadent houses. 


Each planet in angle gets full strength (60 Virupas), planets in succedent houses get 50% of 
strength (30 Virupas), while planets in cadent houses only get 25% (15 Virupas). There is no 


distinction between male and female planets etc. in this Bala type. 


The table below shows the Kendradi Bala for all houses. 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 59 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


Type Houses Strength (Virupas) 
Kendra (angle) 1, 4, 7, 10 60 
Panaphara (succedent) | 2, 5, 8,11 30 
Apoklima (cadent) 3, 6, 9, 12 15 


5. DREKKANA BALA 
Drekkana Bala is based upon placement of planets in decanates of Rasis. 


Male planets get 15 Virupas in first decanate, female planets in 2nd decanate, neutral 
planets in 3rd decanate. This evalution is valid for all zodiacal signs; there is no distinction 
between male and female signs. 


The table below shows the Drekkana Bala for Rasi positions. The degrees are the Rasi 
portions of the planets' lengths (e.g. Mars in 15° Leo will have Drekkana portion of 15° in 
the table). 


Planets/Degrees 0° - 10° 10° - 20° 20°- 30° 
Sun, Mars, Jupiter 15 0 0 
Moon, Venus 0 15 0 
Mercury, Saturn 0 0 15 

Dig Bala 


Dig Bala is the strength of planetary directions, i.e. their position relative to the angles of 
the chart. 


Signification 
Digbala has high influence on the effects of the planets. 


1. Planets with high Digbala will have auspicious effects in the direction of their 
strength. 

2. Planets with bad Digbala will cause losses and difficulties in their direction of 
strength or the opposite direction. 


Remark: It is difficult to determine the correct direction in which events will take place 
because there are different views of planetary directions. Digbala is the source of strength 
but events may take place in the directions attributed to the planets, i.e. 


= Sun: east 

«= Saturn: west 

» Mercury: north 
= Mars: south 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 60 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


« Jupiter: north-east 
= Rahu: south-west 
= Moon: north-west 
= Venus: north-east 


Calculation 


Each planet has directional strength in an angle of the chart. These points of strength are: 
the cusp of 1st house (Ascandant), 7th house (Descendant), 4th house (Nadir, Imum Coeli) 
or 10th house (Meridian, Medium Coeli). 


Sun and Mars are strong in the 10th, Jupiter and Mercury in the Ascendant, Moon and 
Venus in the 4th and Saturn in the 7th. 


Dig Bala of a planet is the distance between his position and the corresponding point of 
mimimum strength (in Virupas). Values greater than 180° or 60 Virupas must be deducted 
from 360° resp. 120 Virupas, so the Dig Bala of a planet must be between zero and 60 
Virupas. 


The table below shows the strongest and weakest points of Dig Bala for the planets. 


Planets Strongest Weakest 
Sun, Mars Meridian Nadir 
Mercury, Jupiter Ascendant Descendant 
Moon, Venus Nadir Meridian 
Saturn Descendant Ascendant 
Examples 


1. Let Moon be in 3° Taurus and Meridian in 17° Cancer. Dig Bala of the Moon is therefore 
dighala = (97° - 33°) /3 = 64/3 = 21 Virupas 


2. Let Sun be in 12° Capricorn and Ascendant in 23° Cancer. Dig Bala of the Sun must be 
calculated from the Descendant i.e. 23° Capricorn 


dighala = (293° - 272°) /3 = 21/3 = 7 Virupas 
Shad Bala — Kala Bala 


Kala Bala is the temporal strength the planets, i.e. it is a collection of different sources of 
strength at the time of birth. 


Kala Bala consists of 6 parts. 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 61 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


No. Kala Bala Type Description 

1 Nathonatha Bala Diurnal/nocturnal strength 

2 Paksha Bala Strength related to Lunar phase 

3 Tribhaga Bala Related to portions of the day/night 

4 Varsha-Masa-Dina- Astrological year (Varsha), month 
Hora Bala (Masa), day (Dina) and hour (Hora) 

5 Yudhdha Bala Strength caused by planetary war 

Equinoctial strength. Some see Ayana 
: ae Bala asa separate uoures of strength 


1. NATHONATHA BALA 

Nathonatha Bala relates to diurnal resp. nocturnal strength of the planets. 
« The Moon, Mars and Saturn are strong in the night and weak in the daytime. 
« The Sun, Jupiter and Venus are strong in the daytime, weak in the night. 
= Mercury has always maximum strength. 

Calculation 


2. PAKSHA BALA 


Paksha Bala is related to Lunar phase at the time of birth. Benefics get high Pakasha Bala 
near Full Moon, low Bala near New Moon. Reverse for malefics. 


Calculation 


Paksha Bala in Virupas depends on the angle between Moon and Sun. The formula is 
pakshabala = (moon - sun ) /3 


The Bala must be deducted from 120 if the value exceeds 60. 
This method yields a small value if birth takes place near New Moon (irrespective of 
placement before/after New Moon). Birth near Full Moon will result in high Paksha Bala 


(~60). Birth near Half Moon will have 30 Virupas. 


This method is extended to all planets in Paksha Bala. Benefic planets (Jupiter, Venus) get 
Paksha Bala Virupas according to this method. 


The method of calculation is reverse for malefics (Sun, Mars, Saturn) i. e. the value must be 
deducted from 60. 


The Moon is benefic if birth takes place in the bright half of the month, i.e. birth is between 
New Moon and Full Moon. Reversely Moon is malefic for birth in the dark half of the 
month (between Full Moon and New Moon). 


Mercury is regarded as malefic if conjunct with a malefic, benefic otherwise. 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 62 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


3. TRIBHAGA BALA 
Tribhaga Bala is about portions of the day/night at the time of birth. 


Each portion of the day resp. night has a lord as its ruler. The lord of the birth time will get 
full strength (60 Virupas). See table. 


Day/Night Part Lord 
Day 1 Mercury 
Day 2 Sun 

Day 3 Saturn 
Night 1 Moon 
Night 2 Venus 
Night 3 Mars 


Jupiter always gets 60 Virupas, i.e. each chart will have two planets with 60 Virupas 
Tribhaga Bala: the lord of birth time and Jupiter. Other planets will have nil Tribhaga 
Bala. 
4. VARSHA-MASA-DINA-HORA BALA 
This Bala is about the astrological year, month, day and hour in which birth takes place. 
Astrological fundaments and calculation of this Bala are described in the Hora Section. 
The strength of this Bala are 

"The lord of Varsha (year) gets 15 Virupas. 

= The lord of Masa (month) gets 30 Virupas. 


"The lord of Dina (day) gets 45 Virupas. 
«The lord of Hora (hour) gets 60 Virupas. 


5. YUDHDHA BALA 


Yudhdha Bala is about planetary war. Planetary war takes place if 2 planets (Mars ... 
Saturn) are within one degree of each other. 


Shad Bala — Ayana Bala: 
Ayana Bala plays a singular role in Shadbala calculation. Some see it as a part of Kala Bala, 


others see Ayana Bala as a separate source of strength. 


Ayana Bala is identical to Cheshta Bala for the Sun (the Sun has no own Cheshta Bala 
because he is always in Sama motion). 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 63 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


Signification 


Ayana Bala depends upon declination and the tropical zodiac, i.e. Ayanamsa must be 
neglected. Ayana Bala is the only source for evaluation of this planetary property. Moon 
and Saturn are strong with southern declination; Sun, Mars, Jupiter and Venus in the 
north. 


Mercury plays a special role in so far as it is strong with northern as well as southern 
declination. So Mercury is again the most neutral planet. 


All planets (including Mercury) have medium Ayana Bala near the equinoxes. 
Calculation 


Ayana Bala depends upon the declination of the planets resp. their tropical length (which is 
nearly the same, see below). It is important to remember that Ayanamsa must be added to 
the planetary lengths in Ayana Bala calculation. 


The planets form 3 groups, each of them having their own rules for Ayana Bala calculation. 
All planets have 50% Ayana Bala strength (30 Virupas) in the equinoxes (0 Aries and 0 
Libra). 


The specific rules are 


1. The Moon and Saturn have maximum Ayana Bala (60 Virupas) near the point 0 
Capricorn, zero in 0 Cancer. 

2. The Sun, Mars, Jupiter and Venus have maximum Ayana Bala near the point 0 
Cancer, zero in 0 Capricorn. 

3. Mercury has maximum Ayana Bala near 0 Cancer and 0 Capricorn. 


KRANTI BASED CALCULATION 


Kranti is the declination of a planet relative to the celestial equator. A planet in the equinox 
has Kranti zero while a planet near the point 0 Capricorn or 0 Cancer has maximum 
Kranti (which is about 23:27 deg). 


The rule for Ayana Bala calculation is 
ayanabala = 30 * (eps +- kranti ) / eps = 1.2793 * (eps +- kranti) 


where eps is the obliquity of the ecliptic (23:27). The rules for addition/subtraction of the 
Kranti value are 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 64 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


= Moon and Saturn: the value must be added for southern Kranti, deducted for 
northern Kranti. 
" Sun, Mars, Jupiter and Venus: the value must be added for northern Kranti, 
deducted for southern Kranti. 
"Mercury: the value must be added for northern and southern Kranti. 
PARASARA'S METHOD 
The second method is described by Parasara in chapter 27 (15-17) of Hora Shastra. 
Find out the tropical length of a planet i.e. add Ayanamsa to its length. Calculate the 
distance from the nearest equinoxe. This value must be between 0 and 90. There are 3 
Khandas (portions) for 3 possible Rasis: 45 (1st sign), 33 (2nd sign) and 12 (3rd sign). 
Khanda Rules 


1.) Planets within the Ist sign get the proportional strength according to their length in that 
sign (Khanda 45). 


Example: A planet in 10° Pisces has distance 20° from equinoxe (0° Aries) and will get a 
value of 20/30 * 45 = 30. 


2.) Planets in the 2nd sign (30°-60°) will get the Khanda of 45 plus proportional value (of 33) 
for their length in the 2nd sign. 


Example: a planet in 10° Scorpio has distance of 40° from equinoxe. So the value is 45+ 
10/30 * 33 = 56. 


3.) Planets in the 3rd sign (60° - 90°) get a value of 78 (=45+33) plus the portion of the 
Khanda value (12). 


Example: a planet in 15° Cancer has distance 75° from equinoxe. The total value will be 78 
+ 15/30 * 12 = 84. 


The result must be between 0-90. Planets near the equinoxes get a small value (near 0); 
planets near 0°Cancer or 0°Capricorn get a high value (near 90). 


Rules for Specific Planets 


Moon and Saturn get in addition 90 degrees if they are posited between Libra and Pisces. 
The value must be deducted from 90 if their position is between Aries and Virgo. 


Same vice versa for Sun, Mars, Jupiter and Venus i.e. 90 must be added for for positions 
between Aries and Virgo; the value must be deducted from 90 for Libra to Pisces. 


For Mercury 90 must always be added. 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 65 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


The result must be divided by 3 to get Ayana Bala in Virupas. The value must be between 0 
and 60 Virupas. 


LENGTH BASED CALCULATION 


This method doesn't use the declination of the planets but is only based upon their tropical 
length. The results are almost identical to the above described method's results. 


The calculation rule is 


ayanabala = 30 * (1 +- abs(sin( len ) ) ) 
where len is the tropical length of the correponding planet/luminary. 


The rules for addition/subtraction are the same as above. 
Example 


Take May Ist 1990 0:00 UT as example. Length must be Sayana (without Ayanamsa); 
declination must be relative to the equator (not to the ecliptic). 


The table shows that the results are quite similar; the tolerance is within 2 Virupas. 


Planet Length Declination Method 1_ | Method 2 Method 3 
Sun 10°22 Taurus 14°56 N 49.1 48.8 49.4 
Moon 29°55 Cancer 21°12 N 4.2 3.9 4.0 

Mars 07°32 Pisces 10°12 S 17.0 18.8 18.5 
Mercury | 15°05 Taurus 17°36 N 52.5 50.5 51.2 
Jupiter 06°57 Cancer 23°23 N 59.9 59.1 59.8 
Venus 26°28 Pisces 02°29S 26.8 28.2 28.2 
Saturn 25°20 Capricorn 20°54 8S 56.7 56.6 57.1 


Shad Bala — Chesta Vala 
Cheshta Bala is the strength of planetary motions. 


This kind of strength applies only to the planets, not to the luminaries. The Cheshta Bala of 
the Sun is identical to his Ayana Bala; Cheshta Bala of the Moon is her Paksha Bala. 


The five planets (Mars ... Saturn) may have 8 different types of motion. They can be 
in direct motion (slow, normal or accelerated), be stationary or retrograde. Another 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 66 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


kind of motion is the introgression into the next/previous sign of the zodiac in 
accelerated of retrograde motion. 


RETROGRADE MOTION 

Retrograde Planets are very strong according to Cheshta Bala. A retrograde planet is 
powerfull and gets the full Cheshta Bala (i.e. 60 Virupas). This kind of motion is called 
Vakra. 

Another kind of retrograde motion is Anuvakra. A planet is in Anuvakra motion if he is 
retrograde and enters the previous sign in his retrograde motion. Anuvakra planets get 
50% of strength (30 Virupas). 

STATIONARY PLANETS 

A planet is stationary if he he is devoid of motion. This happens if the motion is changing 
from direct to retrograde or vice versa. Stationary planets get a strength of 25% i.e. 15 
Virupas. This kind of motion is called Vikala. 

DIRECT MOTION 


There are 5 different kinds of direct motion described in Hora Shastra. 


The motion is called Mandatara if the speed is slow. Mandatara motion gets 25% of 
strength (15 Virupas). 


The motion is called Manda if the speed is medium. Manda motion gets 50% of strength (30 
Virupas). 


Normal motion is called Sama. A planet is in Sama motion if his speed is near the average. 
Sama motion gets 7.5 Virupas and is the weakest of all motions. 


Fast direct motion is called Chara. Chara planets get 75% of strength (45 Virupas). 


A special Chara motion is Atichara. A planet is in Atichara motion if he is in Chara and 
enters the next sign of the zodiac. Atichara planets get 50% of strength (30 Virupas). 


Motion Virupas Speed (Percent) Remark 

Vakra 60 <0 Must not enter previous sign 
Like Vakra. Planet enters 

Anuvakra 30 <0 previous sign in retrograde 
motion 

Vikala 15 < 10% of average speed | - 


o 0 
Mandatara 15 Between 10% and 50% _ 
of average speed 


LY (1) 
Manda 30 Between 50% and 100% | _ 
of average speed 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 67 


ASTROLOGY PART II 


Sania 15 Between 100% and |_ 
° 150% of average speed 
Chara 45 > 150% of average speed | Must not enter next sign 
Atichara 30 > 150% of average speed reer Peanet enere next 
sign in direct motion 


Shad Bala - Naisargika BalaNaisargika Bala is the natural strength of the planets. This 
strength does not depend on the specific chart but is fixed for all charts. 

SignificationPlanets with nearly identical Shadbala can be evaluated by their Naisargika 
Bala, i.e. the planet with higher Naisargika Bala can be regarded as stronger. 


Calculation 


The seven bodies are ordered by their luminosity and get relative strength according to 
their position in that order. Sun has the highest luminosity, Saturn is the darkest planet; 
other planets get portions of 1/7 Rupa according to their position in that order. 


Position Body ane Virupas 
1 Sun 77 60 

2 Moon 6/7 51.4 

3 Venus 5/7 42.9 

4 Jupiter 4/7 34.3 

5 Mercury | 3/7 25.7 

6 Mars 2/7 17.1 

7 Saturn 1/7 8.6 


Shad Bala - Bala Summary 
Strength and weakness of the planets depend upon their net Bala strength i.e. the sum of the 


Balas. The net strength is important for the judgement of the effects during Dasas and 


transits. 


Planets with high net Bala will have strong effects. These effects will be auspisious in most 
cases. But strong planets can also have strong inauspisious effects, especially Saturn and 
Mars. Planets with low net Bala will prove inauspicious or harmless. 


Shadbala Requirements 


Strength and weakness of planets depend upon their total Shadbala. Planets are considered 
to be strong if they meet the minimum Shadbala requirements mentioned in Hora Shastra. 


The values are 


Planet ae Virupas 
Sun 6.5 390 
Moon 6.0 360 
Mars 5.0 300 
Mercury 7.0 420 
Jupiter 6.5 390 
Venus 5.5 330 
Saturn 5 300 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 68 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


A planet that has at least the required Shadbala Pinda is considered to be strong and will 
show favourable results. Nevertheless malefics like Saturn or Mars can give problems and 
miseries, too. 

Requirements for Individual Shadbala Types 

There is another Shadbala requirement template that is based upon _ individual 
requirements for different types of Sub-Balas. This approach can be used as an alternative 
method for judgement of strength, even if the requirements mentioned above do not match. 
Planets are arranged in groups. The corresponding planet must match all the requirements 
in order to be considered as strong. 

The table shows the required Balas in Virupas. 


Planets Sthana Bala_| Dig Bala Kala Bala Cheshta Bala | Ayana Bala 
SUN SMP ter: bigs 35 50 112 30 
Mercury 

Moon, Venus | 133 50 30 100 40 

Mars, Saturn | 96 30 40 67 20 


9. USE OF SHADBALA 

The individual elements of the shadbala show different aspects in our life. They are as 
follows: 

1. Sthana Bala: This planet is the giver of position and status. This also shows which 
positions are most auspicious for us and where shall we be most comfortable. 

2. Dig Bala: This shows the direction which shall be good for us for growth in the career or 
self development. 

3. Kaala Bala: This shows which time is best suitable for us for undertaking an activity. 
4. Cheshta Bala: This shows what drives us, our inherent desires and purpose of our 
struggle in this life. 

5. Naisargika Bala: This is of lesser consquence as this remains constant all through out. 
This is to be used in conjunction with other strengths. This indicate which planets are 
naturally more able to dictate their results. 

6. Drik Bala: This shows which planet shall be favourable all through out in the life of 
native as this is based on the aspect of benefics on the planet. 

Shadbalas or Six Fold strength: 


The planets acquire strength from six (6) sources, called Shadbalas, by virtue of occupation 
in the horoscope. They are: 


1. Positional or Sthanabala:- 

A planet gets strength by virtue of its position in a rasi which happens to be the planet's 
exaltation, own, moolatrikona (trine) friendly or Swavarga (own six fold division) in the 
Shadvargas. 

2. Digbala (Directional Strength): 


-Jupiter and Mercury are powerful and strong in East. 


-Sun and Mars are powerful and strong in North. 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 69 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


-Saturn is powerful and strong in the West. 
-Venus and Moon are strong and powerful in the South. 


3. Motional Strength (chestabala): 
This is by virtue of the position of planets in their Northern and Southern course. The 
association of planets also afford motional strength. 


Six (6) signs constitute Uttarayana or Northerly course of Sun: 
-Capricorn -Aquarius -Pisces -Aries -Taurus -Gemini 


The Sun and Moon are strong in these signs by virtue of motional strength. Retrograde 
Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus and Saturn will have motional strength. These planets in 
conjunction with the full Moon are strong. Jupiter, Venus, Mercury and Saturn in 
conjunction with Mars get Motional strength; when they occupy the succeeding 
constellation to that occupied by Mars. 


4. Temporal strength: (KALABALA): 

Planets get strength and power by virtue of the time of birth. For a person born during the 
night time, the Moon, Mars and Saturn are powerful. So they are planets of nocturnal 
strength. The planets having diurnal strength are the Sun, Jupiter and Venus. Hence 
persons born during the day time derive strength from these diurnal planets. Mercury is 
both diurnal and nocturnal and is always powerful, whether at day or night time. 


Malefics i.e. Sun, Mars, Saturn are powerful during the dark half or Krishna Paksha; while 
benefics i.e. Moon, Jupiter, Venus and Mercury are powerful during the bright half or 
Sukla Paksha. 


Planet Powerful on Powerful during which 
which day part of day/night 

Sun Sunday Noon 

Moon Monday First half of night 

Mars Tuesday Last quarter of night 

Mercury Wednesday Morning 

Jupiter Thursday Throughout day 

Venus Friday At night 

Saturn Saturday In evening 


5. Aspect strength or drugbala: 

Drugbala or ‘aspect strength’ is the result of the aspects of planets. A house or a planet in a 
house which is aspected by another planet gets or lose its strength. The aspect of a benefic 
planet enhances strength of the aspected planet or house while a malefic reduces strength. 
All planets aspect the 7th house. 


These special aspects are more powerful than the 7th house aspect: 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 70 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


Saturn aspects 3rd and 10th houses 
Jupiter aspects 5th and 9th houses 
Mars aspects 4th and 8th houses 


6. Naisargikabala or Natural strength: 

Planets have certain natural strength, irrespective of position. In the order of strengths, the 
planets can be arranged as: Sun, Moon, Venus, Jupiter, Mercury, Mars and Saturn. 
Strength is measured in rupas or ‘intensities’. They are: 


Sun 30 Moon 16 Venus 12 Jupiter 10 
Mercury 8 Mars 6 Saturn 1 


Over-lapping or Ascendant or over Lording 


Full Moon. Saturn, Ketu and Jupiter over lap, over lord certain houses from their location. 
This is called Aschadana. The effect of the over lording planet on the over lorded house and 
planet also should be taken into consideration. It is almost like the aspecting. 


-Full Moon|Saturn|Ketu: over-lap or lord over 2nd and 12th houses from their location i.e. 
on either side 
-Jupiter:lords over 3rd and 11th houses from its location. 


There are ten (10) states of planets based on their location and conjunction etc. They have 
to be taken into consideration for assessing strength of a planet and its effect in the 
horoscope. 


The ten (10) states of existence are: 


1.) Exaltation or deeptha: 

A planet in its exaltation tends to be benefic, even when it should otherwise be a malefic 
according to other situations in the horoscope. When a person is in a joyous mood like 
having just married his loved woman, tends to be soft, forgiving and even offer sweets to his 
bitter and hateful enemy in that jolly mood. Same is the case with the planets in their 
exaltation and give gains, wealth, status, favours from the government, name and fame etc. 


2.) Own Rasi or Swasta: 
Planet in his own Rasi feels secure, contented and hospitable. Hence bestows wealth, 
happiness, respectability, position and children. 


3.) Rasi of a friend or Mudita: 
Being in the house of a friend, enjoys hospitality and comforts. 
Hence a planet in its friend's rasi gives happiness, good clothing, and interest in fine arts. 


4.) Friendly Rasi or Friendly Navamsa or Santa: 
Almost same as Mudita 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 71 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


5.) Retrogression or Sakta: 

A planet in retrogression becomes powerful as it revisits the same house/sign. A retrograde 
planet gives courage, success, wealth, fame etc. A planet in its exalted sign or Moolatrikona 
is powerless when in retrogression; while becomes powerful in its debilitated sign. 


6.) In an Inimical House or Deena: 

When a person resides in this enemies house, he loses all his freedom, comfort and 
happiness. So naturally will be troubled and humiliated. Same is the case with planets also. 
Deena state of a planet causes envy, worry, sickness, humiliation, nervousness and the like. 


7.) Combustion or Vikala: 

When any planet is within 8A° from the Sun ,except Mercury, the planet is said to be in a 
state of combustion. Its rays are burnt away by the rays of the Sun. Such a state causes 
disease, loss of near and dear ones, deformity and humiliation. 


8.) Debilitation or Khala: 

When a person is in a very humble circumstances and in a very helpless state, he tends to be 
envious, hateful, quarrelsome etc. Likewise, a planet in its debilitated Sign becomes 
powerless to do any good. On the other hand give losses, troubles, quarrels with near and 
dear ones, loss of position, evil thoughts and bad company and the like. A malefic planet in 
debilitation cause less harm than a benefic planet. A retrograde (Rx or R) planet in its 
debilitation sign will become powerful to do good. 


9.) Acceleration or Bheeta: 

Planets move some times faster than their normal acceleration. Such a state is called 
acceleration. It is presumed that the planet is in fear or bheeti. A person in fear will run for 
safety, adopting dilatory methods and forgoing many things. Same case with planets also. A 
planet in acceleration causes enemies, troubles, losses, dirty habits or residence away from 
native place; in the company of menials. 


10.) Situation in the Last part of a Sign or Peeditha: 

A planet in the last Navamsa of a sign is in the process of entering the next sign. This is 
transitory position of the planet. When a person is about to leave his residence and village 
to go to a new place, he will be troubled with clearing all his debts, obligations, etc. and thus 
will be in a state of harassment or Peeditha. Same case with planets also. A planet in 
Peeditha stage causes troubles, civil and criminal legal-actions, quarrels, inclination 
towards theft or pilferage etc. 


Yoga: 

There are 27 Yogas. The Yoga at birth is calculated by adding the sign and longitude of the 
Moon and Sun. If it is more than 11 signs (Aries being Zero) 12 should be deducted from it 
and the Yoga corresponding to the sign and longitude should be read like this example: 


5S —s-:11° 08' —=—s- Sun 


OS = 28°16' Moon 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 72 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


6S 09° 24' 
or 15th Yoga or Vajra Yoga 


Vishtambha, Vyatipath, Sula, Vijra, AtigandaVyaghata, 1st half of Parigha, Vydhruti 
Yogas are inauspicious. 


XX DIVISIONAL CHARTS OR VARGAS 
The material incorparated in the Divisional Charts has been incorparted mainly from: 


a) Shadvaraga by Shri Krishna Kumar 
b) Basic Text Book on Astrology by Prof. G.B. Forbes 


Cc) Divisional Harmonic Charts by Barbara Pijan Lama 
d) Artocles by Mr. Sanjay Rath 
e) Various other varticles from text books and the website 


f) Books by Chandulal S. Patel 


Kalyana Varma has said that without divisional charts, one cannot take a step forward in 
astrology. It illuminates a bhava where darkness prevails and enables the astrologer to 


examine bhava specific queries in its minutest detail. 


Divisional charts are the keys to understanding horoscopes as they unlock that hidden door 
which refuses to open, even after the astrologer has examined the entire spectrum of 
variables for analyzing a bhava. So once a bhava has been put under the gaze, and its rashi 
and the planets housing it and aspecting it, its lord and its dispositor, its strengths and its 
Navamsa, its karakas and yogas, and drishtis, have all been inspected from every possible 
angle, and yet clarity is not achieved, divisional charts come to the fore to dispel the clouds 
of obscurity. 


V.S. Apte, in Practical Sanskrit- English Dictionary tells us that the meaning of: 

A) Varga are: subdivision, class, category, section, or group b) mathematical square 
power 3) strength. 

B) Amsa are: the shoulder, shoulder-blade; corner of a quadrangle, the two shoulders or 
angles of an altar, a Portion or share, one who excludes or removes or averts, a separate 
division , class , set , multitude of similar things (animate or inanimate) , group , company , 
family , party , side any series or group of words classified together, a class or series of 
consonants in the alphabet ... (7 such classes: Guttural; Palatals; Cerebrals; Dentals; 
Labials; Semivowels; Sibilants; and the aspirate h.), everything comprehended under any 
department or head , everything included under a category , province or sphere of., a 
section , chapter , division of a book , (in alg.) the square of a number, strength. 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 73 


ASTROLOGY PART II 


Divisional strength of a planet: 


A planet attains strength when it is 
a) exalted 

b) in its own moolatrikona 

c) in own sign 

d) in a friend’s sign. 


Planets are considered strong when they are : 

a) in Kendra (cardinal points) 

b)in Trikona (Tine) 

c) areassociated with Kendra or trine lords 

d) associated or aspected by a natural or functional benefic planet in divisional chart. 


These planets are capable of giving good results to the native during their main or sub- 
periods (mahadasa or antar dasha period). 


In Indian Astrology the power of the Planet is calculated based on its position in 16 
different divisions called “Shodasha Varga”. There are 4 groups of these Varga as follows: 


2. 


e Shadvarga 

e Saptavarga 

e Dashavarga 

e Shodashavarga 


Shadvarga - 6 Divisions 


Shadvarga consist of Kshetra, Hora, Dreshkan, Saptamansh, Navamansha & 
Dwadashansha. 


a) Kshetra (30°) - Indicates the actual position of the planet which is calculated from 


b) 


Ephemeris and the Longitude, Latitude of Birth Location. Kshetra Kundali is 
nothing but the Janma Lagna Kundali. 


Hora (15°)- (Finance) indicates the financial gains & financial position of a person. 
Every sign is divided in 2 parts of 15° each. First part (0° - 15°) is called as Ravi 
(Sun) Hora & the 2" part (15° - 30°) is called as Chandra (Moon) Hora. 


c) Dreshkan (10°) —(Brothers & Sisters) indicates relations with siblings 


(brothers/sisters)Every sign is split in 3 equal parts of 10° First Dreshkan (0° - 10°) 
belongs to the same sign as Kshetra, 2"' Dreshkan (10° - 20°) belongs to the 5" sign 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 74 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


from the Kshetra & the 3’ Dreshkan (20° - 30°) belongs to the 9" sign from the 
Kshetra. 


d) Saptamansh —- 7 parts of (30/7") — (Children) indicates the relations with the 
children. 


e) Navamansh — 9 parts of (3° 20’) — (Married Life & Power of the Planets) indicates 
the overall married life & the strength of the Planets in the horoscope. 


f) Dwadashansha - 12 parts of (2° 30’) — (Parents) — indicates the relations with the 
parents. 


3. Saptavarga - (7 Divisions) 


Saptavarga consist of Kshetra, Hora, Dreshkan, Saptamansh, Navamansh, Dwadashansha 
& Trishansha. 


g)  Trishansha — 30 parts — indicates Health, Diseases, Calamities, tragedies etc... 


4. Dashavarga - 10 Divisions 


Dashavarga consist of Kshetra, Hora, Dreshkan, Saptamansh, Navamansh, Dwadashansha 
& Trishansha, Dashansha, Shodashansha & Shashthyansha. 


h) Dashansha — 10 parts of (3°) each — Major gains — indicates big financial gains in 
life. 


i) Shodashansha — 16 parts — General Pleasure & Sorrow in life, Vehicles a person can 
own or enjoy. 


j) Shashthyansha — 60 parts — indicates general condition of the person. 


5. Shodashavarga - 16 Divisions 

Shodashavarga consist of Kshetra, Hora, Dreshkan, Saptamansh, Navamansh, 
Dwadashansh, Trishansh, Dashansha, Shodashansha, Shathyansha, Chaturthansha, 
Vishansha, Chaturvishansha, Bhansha, Khavedansha, Akshavedansha. 


k) Chaturthansha — 4 parts — indicates bhagya (fate) of the person. 


I) Vishansha — 20 parts — indicates the inclination of person towards God, Upasana, 
Adhyatma etc... 


m) Chaturvishansha — 5 parts — indicates the education of a person, art/skills of a 
person. 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 75 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


n) Bhansha — Balabal — indicates overall strength of horoscope. 


0) Khavedansha — indicates general good & bad things in life (Shubha Ashubha 
Ghatana) 


p) Akshavedansha — 45 parts — indicates General Status & well being of the person 
6.) READING A DIVISIONAL CHART. 
a) Lagnesh of a Varga is called Vargesh (Ascendant Lord) 


b) The Ascendant of the natal (rasi) chart) reveals the basic nature, physical and 
psychological structure of the native also his strength and weakness. 


c) Each varga or divisional chart is controlled by a significator and is called the 
varaga karak. This karak controls the divisional chartand plays an important role in the 
field of life of the native. 


d) If Lagnesh, Vargesh and Karak are placed in good houses of a varga kundali, that 
native would get good results in respect of matters pertaining to that divisional chart. 


e) For assessing better results , it is also necessary to study: 
i) the significator planets in the natal chart and their positions in the divisional 
chart. 
ii) the position of the divisional lord (vargesh) in the natal or rasi chart. 
f) If the divisional lord, natural significator and natal lord occupy a good house 


(Kendra, trikona, 2" or 11™ house) in the natal (rasi) chart, the person would enjoy good 
results in repect of matters pertaining to that divisional chart. 


g) A planet placed in 1, 4, 5, 7, 9, 10 and 11" house of a divisional chart gives 
auspicious results. 


h) A planet in 2" house gives good results in cse of financial maters but could be bad in 
matters of family relations since it is 8" from the 7" house (spouse’s family). 


i) Planets acquiring directional strength (digbali grahas) in a divisional chart become 
auspicious and are capable of giving good results. The table below shows the strength of 
planets in various houses. 


Planets Houses of Full strength | Houses of half Houses of zero 
strength strength 

Mercury & | 1% house 4" & 10" house 7” house 

Jupiter 

Moon & Venus 4" house 1% & 7" house 10" house 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 716 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


Saturn 7 house 4" & 10™ house 1“ house 
Sun and Mars 10" house Istand 7th 4" house 
jp Planets posited in 3, 6, 8 and 12 houses or associated with their lords, namely 3" 


lord, 6" lord, 8" lord and 12™ lord in a divisional chart are normally bad an tend to give 
bad or evil effects regarding the matter of that divisional chart. The exception is that of 
Saturn I 8 house, Mars in 6 house and Venus in the 12™ house. 


k) Placement of the rasi lord, vargesh or malefic planets (Sun, Mars, Saturn, Rahu & 
Ketuu) in 3, 6, 10, 11 (upachaya houses) or natural functional malefic planets (lords of 3", 
6", 8" or 12") in these houses help the native to make progress in life. 


1) Planets posited in good houses of the divisional charts, though weak, ill-placed or 
functionally malefic in the natal or rasi chart, reduce their malefic tendencies and could 
give good results. 


m) Strong and benefic planets in natal (D-1 chart) if ill-placed, weak, debilitated or 
conjunct with an enemy or natural malefic planet in the divisional chart would not give the 
desired results during their main or sub-periods in matters pertaining to the divisional 
chart. 


n) A plnet occupying the same sign in both the natal (D-1) and divisional chart 
becomes virgotatam. This is an excellent combination and gives good result. 


7. D-2 DIVISIONAL CHART OR THE HORA CHART 


Hora is half of a sign. When a sign of 30° is divided into two halves, then we get 2 divisions 
of 15° each. In an odd sign (1, 3, 5, 7, 9, 11) the ruler of the first hora is the Sun and ruler of 
the 2™ hora is the Moon. Similarly, in an even sign (2, 4, 6, 8, 10 and 12) the ruler of the 1“ 
hora is the Moon and the ruler of the 2" hora is the Sun. 


Hora Odd sign (1,3,5,7,9,11) Even sign(2,4,6,8,10,12) 
First half 0-15 5 Sun 4 Moon 
Second half 15° -30° 4 Moon 5 Sun 


Hor a is the extension of the second house indiacting wealth, face, complexion, nature and 
behavious and relationship with other members of the family. 


There is a school of thought that believes that the first hora of all signs are benefic and are 
called “Dev Horas”. 


Sage Parashar in his “Hora Shastra” states: If the Hora Ascendant Lord is the Sun it 
indictes that the native has come from the land of deities, is ambitious, spiritual, skilled 
worker and a born leader. Some believe that the native does not belong to the Human Race 
and has come to perform good virtuous and religious deeds and increases his merits on this 
earthly sojourn. 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 77 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


If the Hora lagna belongs to Moon then the native has come from his forefather’ world or 
that a family member has taken rebirth and has come to either repay or recover some debts 
from his parents as Moon represents the mind, nectar and forefathers. 


If natural malefics occupy the hora ascendant of the Sun the native would be bold, 
aggressive, courageous, determined, ruthless and rich. Beneifc planets in the Sun’s hora 
would become less benefic. 


If natural benefics occupy the Hora lagna the native would be intelligent, genius, humble, 
loving, sympathetic, helpful co-operative and dedicated worker with a high sense of duty. 
Malefic planets when posited in Moon’s hora would lose their evil effects. 


The D 2 chart is different from all other charts since it has only two hourse and not twelve. 
One is ruled by the Sun (the Atma or super ego) and the other one is ruled by the Moon 
(emotions, feelings of the heart, sympathy and desires). The planets in the Sun’s hora 
denote the much needed energy gained or acquired by the native to fulfill the needs while 
the planets in the Moon’s hora show the inner desire and perceived needs. 


D/2 chart or Dhana Bhava :"Field of Psychic Expectation for Matters of Wealth" In the 
matter of increased hoarding - savings - wealth: 


1.To determine the prognosis for Gain of Wealth, look first (of course) to all the 
effects upon labha bhava [the 11th house of gain] itself. 


2.The house which defines and energizes "gainfulness" sits in 3/11 angle to the 
gainfulness-house: it is dhana bhava, the 2nd house of food-wealth. 


3.Clearly, producing income is one of the central goals of the wealth house. 


4.Examine dhana bhava in the radix. Will the radix 2nd house generate the 
community support (11) and personal courage (3) necessary to realize its goals? 


5.Outcome depends on the relationship between the 3/11 houses, their rulers and 
their occupants. 


6.Once the radix 3/11 relationship is established, look for confirmation of the 
"fruits" of the 2nd house in the D-2 divisional chart: ''Hora" The Hora reveals 
fine detail of how the "results" of dhana bhava manifest. 


7.The central result of wealth being income, we gain from Hora (presuming an 
accurate birth time) a confirming level of detail regarding gainfulness, which 
amounts to whether society is in general for one or against one! 


8. D/3 DIVISIONAL CHART OR THE DREKKANA/DRESKHAN CHART 


Barbara Pijan Lama _ says that the D-3 varga now commonly called 'drekkana' was 
probably originally called the 'dreshkhamsha’', but may have changed over time, by analogy, 
to match the Greek term dekka. This process happens in all languages. 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 78 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


The definition of a Decanate or Drekkana: A decanate ( Drekkana in Sanskrit ) is 1/3 rd of 
a house. The 30 degrees Sign divided by 3 is a decanate .The first Drekkana is, therefore, 0 
to 10 degrees, the second decanate is 10 to 20 degrees & the third decanate is 20 to 30 
degrees. Since each Sign has 3 decanates, there are 36 decanates in all. 


Decanates are another technique that can be employed to delineate the finer points of an 
individuals character. The first decanate of any sign is ruled by the owning planet, second 
decanate by the 5th lord and the third decanate by the 9th lord. For example, the first 
decanate of Aries is ruled by Mars, the second decanate is owned by Sun and the third 
decanate is owned by Jupiter. 


The divisions of the decanates and the respective signs in which they fall are given in the 
following table: 


Sign Decanate ; on Decanate : 
0 TO 10 20° TO 30 

‘Aries Aries Leo Sagittarius 
Taurus Taurus Virgo Capricorn 
Gemini Gemini Libra Aquarius 
Cancer Cancer Scorpio Pisces 
Leo Leo Sagittarius Aries 
Virgo Virgo Capricorn Taurus 
Libra Libra Aquarius Gemini 
Scorpio Scorpio Pisces Cancer 
Sagittarius Sagittarius Aries lLeo 
Capricorn Capricorn Taurus irgo 
Aquarius Aquarius Gemini Libra 
Pisces Pisces Cancer Scorpio 


G. Kumar in his article “Vedic Astrology Part 29, the 36 decanates” gives the following 
descriptions and interpretations of the dreskhanas. 


The decanates of Aries 


The first decanate of Aries ruled by Mars. The first Drekkana of Aries represents a dark 
complexioned man with a white cloth round his waist, liberal minded, ready to don the garb 
of the Redeemer, oriented to protect, with awesome red eyes & with a lifted axe. This is a 
human decanate and an armed decanate. 

Since the first decanate of Aries is rising, the native’s fortunes are subject to vicissitudes. 
They will gain from marriage, property and rural industries. They are meticulous and 
cautious in approach. They should contain anger and Ego as these negative elements can 
destroy them. They are able exploit circumstances to their benefit & gain thereby. 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 79 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


The second decanate of Aries ruled by the Sun. The second Drekkana of Aries is described 
as representing a woman with a pot belly. attired in a red cloth, horse faced, a lover of food 
& ornaments, single footed & thirsty. This is a female decanate 

Since the second decanate of Aries is rising they maintain that End Justifies the Means and 
go all out for Wealth. They show off and people get the impression that they are richer than 
what they really are. They should control the base passions like Anger & envy. 


The third decanate of Aries ruled by Jupiter. The third Drekkana of Aries represents a 
yellow complexioned man, festooned in cruelty, with artistic skill, a workaholic, 
unscrupulous, with an irate temparament, with lifted-up stick, clad in purple clothes. This is 
an armed decanate and human. 

Since the third decanate of Aries is rising they have entreprenaurial ability. They generate 
enemies who are powerful. They become lucky in financial dealings as they combine both 
risk and caution. They should control their negative aspect as it can destroy them. 


The decanates of Taurus 

The first decanate of Taurus ruled by Venus. The first decanate of Taurus represents a 
woman with torn ringlets, pot bellied, with fiery clothes, hungry & thirsty, with a penchant 
for gold and food. This is a female decanate and fiery. 

As the first decanate of Taurus is rising they have heavy expenditure commensurate with 
income. They spend all that they have as they believe that money is for comforts. They have 
to take care not to get into debts. They should also control their anger. Their dependents 
hardly get anything. 

The second decanate of Taurus ruled by Mercury. The second Drekkana of Taurus 
represents a man possessing a discriminative intellect, with good knowledge of lands, grains, 
houses, cows, arts, ploughing and carts, hungry, sheep faced, dirty clothes and shoulders 
like the hump of an ox. This is a human decanate Also an_agriculturist. 


Since the second decanate of Taurus is rising they are likely to practice thrift and be careful 
with their money. They follow the principle ” Economy is Prudence ” . The world may 
condemn them as misers. They miss good opportunities as they are meticulous in investing 
money. 


The third decanate of Taurus ruled by Saturn. The 3rd Drekkana of Taurus represents by 
an elephant bodied man, with expertise in capturing deer & sheep, yellow compexioned, 
with mental tension supreme, white teeth, with speedy legs like that of Sarabha. This is a 
human decanate. 

Since the third decanate of Taurus is rising they may not gain happiness from wealth. They 
may experience difficulties as age advances and the need for money becomes more. They 
are advised to practice thrift and be cautious as they have a tendency to give away money. 


The decanates of Gemini 


The first decanate of Gemini ruled by Mercury. The First Drekkana of Gemini represents a 
female fond of needlework, with a beauty equalling that of Rambha or Helen, without any 
issues , with a penchant for ornamentation, with lifted hands & in menses. This is a female 
decanate. 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 80 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


Since the first decanate of Gemini is rising they will be subject to dire vicissitudes. Their 
fortune will be influenced by women. At the age of 30 and after they will control big sums of 
money. They should be careful not to fall a prey to litigation. 


The second decanate of Gemini ruled by Venus. The Second Drekkana of Gemini 
represents a man, living in garden, well armoured , with a bow, warlike, armed with 
weapons, face like that of a Bird and fond of play, children, ornamentation and wealth. This 
is a human decanate and and a Bird decanate. 

Since the second decanate of Gemini is rising they will shine in business and not in service. 
Since they spend a lot they may not save enough for old age. In spite of good IQ they may 
have to countenance losses. They should not allow themselves to be exploited. 


The third decanate of Gemini ruled by Saturn. The 3rd Drekkana of Gemini represents a 
man adorned, with knowledge and expertise in Poesis, Aesthetics & Rhetoic, dancing, 
festooned in gems and jewellery, superbly decorated in gems, armed to the teeth, armoured 
with quiver and bow, & a master poet. 

Since the third decanate of Gemini is rising they use their good intellect and make money. 
They are not likely to succeed in speculation. They may have to face litigation during their 
45th or 46th year. 


The decanates of Cancer 


The first decanate of Cancer ruled by Moon. The first Drekkana of Cancer represents a 
man, pig faced, apparelled in fruits, roots & leaves, elephant bodied residing on sandal trees 
in the forest, with speedy legs and horse necked. Know that this is a quadruped Drekkana. 
Since the first decanate of Cancer is rising they are thrifty and careful with money. They 
follow the principle Economy is Prudence In fact society may dub them as misers. Their 
wealth will be subject to dire vicissitudes.. Most probably they will gain by private 
enterprise. 


The second decanate of Cancer ruled by Mars. The second Drekkana of Cancer represents 
a youthful female crowned with lotus flowers & serpents, in her first virginal blossom, 
inhabiting forests , crying holding a branch of a tree in a forest. Know that this is a 
serpentine decanate. 


Since the second decanate of Cancer is rising Lady luck does not smile on them in financial 
matters. The very fact that they are kind & generous is a handicap to save money. They 
should avoid risk in investments .They may lose money due to litigation. 


The third decanate of Cancer ruled by Jupiter. The third Drekkana of Cancer represents a 
man covered with serpents, adorned with many golden ornaments, with a face flattened, 
crossing the ocean in a boat in order to make his wife rich and adorned with gold and 
jewellery. This is a serpentine decanate, human & watery. 


Since the third decanate of Cancer is rising they are careless in money matters generally. In 
advanced years loss of economic position and money are likely. Their fortunes are subject to 


dire vicissitudes. They always find it difficult to manage their financIal matters. 


The decanates of Leo 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 81 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


The first decanate of Leo ruled by Sun. The First Drekkana of Leo represents a creature 
who is a cross between vulture and a jackal, a dog and a man dressed in dirty clothes, a 
creature who is away from its parents, and crying. This is a human decanate, quadruped, 
Bird decanate & generally sorrowful. 


Since the first decanate of Leo is rising by their merits and efforts they make money. They 
spend as much as they earn. They do well trading in clothes & food. They may have bouts of 
bad luck in their professional sphere. 


The second decanate of Leo ruled by Jupiter. The second Drekkana of Leo represents a 
man resembling a horse’s body, long and powerful. crowned with white garlands , 
appareled in clothes to make it warm, with Krishna Mriga, with a flat nose, with a leonine 
fierceness, with a bow in the hand . This is an armed human decanate. 


Since the second decanate of Leo is rising their main interests are writing, literature, poetry, 
art, music and journalism. These areas can also become their profession. They 
unnecessarily earn the frown of their superiors and they suffer thereby. Moderate finances. 
The third decanate of Leo ruled by Mars. The 3rd Drekkana of Leo represents a man with 
a face that of a bear and monkey, with a monkeyish character, long beard, curbed ringlets 
and holding fruits, flesh & stick. This is a quadruped & an armed decanate. 


Since the third decanate of Leo is rising they will do well in the professional sphere. 
Unexpected ways bring in money. They do well in intellectual fields as well as in export 
business. They are good at contract work 


The decanates of Virgo 


The first decanate of Virgo ruled by Mercury. The First Drekkana of Virgo represents a 
virgin holding a pot full of flowers, appareled in dirty raiments, fond of money and clothes 
and going to the house of the Guru or Initiator. This is a female decanate. 


Since the first decanate of Virgo is rising they are workaholics & earn their wealth due to 
hard work. They have to curb their excessive penchant for Money and the pleasures of the 
mundane. They have to avoid risks & avoid speculative business. Loss is likely during the 
latter part of their life. They may be subject to deception and fraud. 


The second decanate of Virgo ruled by Saturn. The Second Drekkana of Virgo represents a 
man with a bow & a pen in the hand, dark complexioned, crowned by a cloth, always 
counting debit and credit, with dense hair all over the body. This is an armed decanate & a 
male one. 


Since the second decanate of Virgo is rising their financial condition will be OK. If they 
minimize unnecessary risks they are likely to amass considerable wealth. 

They practice thrift and are careful in fiscal matters. Jupiter’s transit of Cancer, Aquarius 
& Scorpio will be important fiscally. 


The third decanate of Virgo ruled by Venus. The third Drekkana of Virgo represents a 
virgin, yellow complexioned, appareled majestically in a white cloth, 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 82 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


with good height, holding a pot and a spoon, going to a divine place of worship in a purified 
state. This is a female decanate. 


Since the third decanate of Virgo is rising they will be successful in the first half of life in 
fiscal matters. Many problems may have to be faced as wastage of money creates them. 
Disappointments stare them in the face. Better eschew speculation. 


The decanates of Libra: 


The first decanate of Libra ruled by Venus, According to Yavanas, the First Drekkana of 
Libra, represents a man holding Scales or balances, thinking of his capital and goods, seated 
in a shop in the middle of the road, with expertise in weighing, and thinking to sell his goods 
& services. This is an urban and a male decanate. 


Since the first decanate of Libra is rising money from business ventures & legal occupations 
will come to them. Extravagance comes to the fore & they may indulge in luxury. They have 
to understand that speculative ventures are generally harmful. 

The second decanate of Libra ruled by Saturn 

The middle Drekkana of Libra represents a vulture faced man hungry and thirsty, holding 
a pot which is ready to fall and thinking of his wife and children. This is a Bird decanate 
and human. 


Since the second decanate of Libra is rising they have to prepare to face dire vicissitudes. 
Many feel that they have resorted to unfair methods to grab money. They can if you try 
make money out of literature . Beware of unnecessary expenses. They are not interested in 
the orthodox ways of making money. The third decanate of Libra ruled by Mercury 


The third Drekkana of Libra represents a man, decked with gems, wearing golden quiver 
and armour and frightening the animals in the wilderness, resembling a monkey and 
holding in the hand fruits and flesh. 


Since the third decanate of Libra is rising they have fiscal success. They have an aptitude 
for hotel management. They love music and the fine arts. They may have to struggle hard in 
early life. Their life will be marked by sudden elations. 


The decanates of Scorpio 


The first decanate of Scorpio ruled by Mars . The First Drekkana of Scorpio represents a 
beautiful woman, absolutely ravishing, with ornaments, devoid of clothes, dislocated from 
her place of domicile, arriving from the middle of the ocean to the shore, with serpents all 
over her feet. This is a female and a serpentine decanate. 


As the first decanate of Scorpio is rising the native may have to struggle hard in the early 
part of life. They work hard and become workaholics. They may amass wealth beyond the 
dreams of avaricewhen time comes. They have many sources of income. They have the 
courage to face powerful enemies. The second decanate of Scorpio ruled by Jupiter 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 83 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


The middle Drekkana of Scorpio represents a woman, big bellied, with a penchant for 
house and husband’s happiness, with serpents all over her body, with a body which 
resembles a pot and a tortoise. This is a serpentine and female decanate. 


As the second decanate of Scorpio is rising, the native becomes a dreamer whose dreams are 
not fulfilled. In fiscal matters they are not clever. They spend money when they have & 
adjust whenthey do not have.. They have to incorporate shrewdness and practical insight. 


The third decanate of Scorpio ruled by Moon . The last Drekkana of Scorpio represents a 
being with a human face and a lion’s body from neck downwards, with a flattened nose, 
face as big as a tortoise, frightening foxes, deers, pigs in the forest, protecting the 
sandalwood tree infested forest. This is a quadruped & a male decanate 


Since the third decanate for Scorpio is rising the native may get some legacies. They study 
things in advance and are always cautious. They are quite meticulous when it comes to 
fiscal matters. They do not trust people. This becomes a negative quality in life. 


The decanates of Sagittarius: 


The first decanate of Sagittarius ruled by Jupiter. The First Drekkana of Sagittarius 
represents a man with the body of a horse and with a face human, protecting a hemitage 
inhabited by Rishies and protecting their articles for Yajnas. This is a human & a 
quadruped decanate. 


As the first decanate of Sagittarius is rising, they jump into new ventures without proper 
study & thought. They have many sources of income. They may be involved with fraudulent 
associations and lose money. They are advised not to associate with such groups. 


The second decanate of Sagittarius ruled by Mars. The middle Drekkana of Sagittarius 
represents a magnificent woman, ravishing, golden hued, seated in the Bhadrasana pose, 
picking up gemstones from the ocean. This is a female decanate. 

Since the second decanate of Sagittarius is rising they may have to change professions. 
Society may consider them as rolling stones They will be subject to dire vicissitudes. They 
should avoid speculative tendencies. Shipping, metallurgy and transport will suit them well. 


The third decanate of Sagittarius ruled by Sun . The third Drekkana of Sagittarius 
represents a man appareled in silken cloth and skins of deers and tigers, golden 
complexioned, with hair all over the face, sitting in a highly elevated posture, holding a stick 
in one hand. This is a human decanate and an armed one. 


As the third decanate of Sagittarius is rising, they are likely to suffer in early life and 


improve their finances in the latter part of life. They will employ means that are not above 
board and make largesse. They benefit fiscally by marriage. 


The decanates of Capricorn: 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 84 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


The first decanate of Capricorn ruled by Saturn. The First Drekkana of Capricorn 
represents a golden hued man with a hairy face, with a fiendish & cruel face, with wicked 
teeth like those of a crocodile, with a pig like body & keeping nets, bandages and yokes. 
This is an quadruped, human and armed decanate. 


Since the first decanate of Capricorn is rising their speculation bears fruit. Due to their 
intelligence and merits they will attain to wealth. They are advised to exercise caution and 
be careful about people and check all before dealing with them. The second decanate of 
Capricorn ruled by Venus 


The second Drekkana of Capricorn represents a woman, with a penchant for clothes and 
searching for them, a lover of arts and highly skilled in them, beautiful eyes like lotus petals, 
dark complexioned and wearing ear ornaments made up of iron. This is a female decanate. 


Since the second decanate of Capricorn is rising, they are swayed by Wealth. Their pattern 
of expenditure will surprise many a people They spend money not on things which are 
necessary but on purposes not worthwhile. They will become overgenerous in the latter half 
of life. 


The third decanate of Capricorn ruled by Mercury. The last Drekkana of Capricorn 
represents a man, with a face of a horse, holding bows and arrows, covered with strong 
clothes, and bearing a pot on its shoulder full of gems. This is a human & a quadruped 
decanate. 


Since the third decanate of Capricorn is rising they may lose money due to undesirable 
friends. The fields of Music, dancing literary work and other arts are very much suited to 
them. They should exercise ceaseless vigilance in money matters. 


The decanates of Aquarius: 


The first decanate of Aquarius ruled by Saturn. The First Drekkana of Aquarius 
represents a man with a face like that of a vulture, fond of oils, wines, water and food being 
brought to him and searching for them, appareled in silk cloth and deer skin. This is a Bird 
decanate and human. 


Since the first decanate of Aquarius is rising, they will have many sources of income. They 
may not feel the need for money. They will shine in politics & journalism. Obstacles due to 
hidden enemies & relatives are to be expected. 


The second decanate of Aquarius ruled by Mercury. The second Drekkana of Aquarius 
represents a shabbily attired woman in a forest, amidst blooming trees, bearing pots on her 
head and dragging iron pieces in a burnt cart . This is a female decanate and a fiery 
decanate. 


Since the second decanate of Aquarius is rising, they will make excess money. Hotel 
management and mining will enthrall them. They will indulge in luxury and extravagance. 
Wastage of money is to be expected. They will be partially successful in speculation. 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 85 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


The third decanate of Aquarius ruled by Venus. The Third Drekkana of Aquarius indicates 
a dark complexioned man, with hairy ears & crowned. This man is putting medicinal 
leaves, gums, fruits in an iron pot and changing these constantly. This is a human decanate. 


Since the third decanate of Aquarius is rising their financial condition will be in an 
unsettled state. Business will not be good. They will shine well in artistic jobs. Adversity is to 
be expected in the first half of life. Facing reversals and struggling hard becomes the order 
of the day. 


The decanates of Pisces: 


The first decanate of Pisces ruled by Jupiter. The First Drekkana of Pisces represents a 
man festooned in ornaments, carrying vessels for sacrifice , holding in hand jewels, conch 
shells and changing them constantly because of their weight, and crossing the mighty ocean 
in a boat for gems for his better half. This is a human decanate and a watery one. 


Since the first decanate of Pisces is rising, they get a lot of opportunities for amassing 
wealth. They become generous & spend all in the first half of life. In the second half they 
become miserly surprising everybody. Litigation may torment them. 


The second decanate of Pisces ruled by Moon. The Second Drekkana of Pisces indicates a 
golden hued woman, surrounded by attendants galore & sailing in a boat decked with large 
flags, in search of the other side of the ocean . This is a watery and a female decanate. 


As the second decanate of Pisces is rising they will be hale & healthy. They may have two 
sources of income. They will be self made. Even though they make money they will not be 
satisfied with it. They need more. Uncertainty prevails during the latter half. 


The third decanate of Pisces ruled by Mars. The 3rd Drekkana of Pisces represents a man 
crying, covered with serpents and naked, in a forest, and with a mind disturbed by thieves 
and the enveloping fire. This is a human, fiery, serpentine and dolorous decanate. 

Since the third decanate of Pisces is rising in fiscal matters they will be clever & intelligent. 
They do not trust people and this become a big handicap. Lady Luck smiles on them in 
business. Be careful while signing documents. Success in investment & shares. 


Classification of Drekhana 


Drekhana Moveable sign Fixed sign Dual sign 
1 4 7 #10 2 5 8 11 3 6 9 12 
1° part (0° to 10°) Uttam (good) Adham (bad) Adham (bad) 
2" part (10° to 20°) Madhyam Uttam (good) Madhyam 
(moderate) (moderate) 
3" part (20° to 20°) Adham (bad) Madhyam Uttam (good) 
(moderate) 


- If there are more planets in Uttam (good) decanates the native would be 
happy, healthy and brave. He would be resourceful, courageous, 
hardworking, taking interest and initiative in achieving his goals. 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 86 


ASTROLOGY PART II 


The planets in moderate or bad decanates give somewhat poor and 
inconsistent results. Such a native will be slow, lazy, pessimistic, avoiding 
responsibilities. He is hesitant and incapable of putting in hard work. 


Drekhanas and the parts of the body 


The various parts of the body depending upon the rising decanate at the time of birth are 
given in the table below: 


House 1* decanate (0 to 10) Second dcanate (10 to 20) | Third decanate (20 to 30) 
I Head Neck Pelvis 
Ul Right eye Righ shoulder Penis 
Ill Right ear Right arm Right testicle 
IV Right nostril Right hand Right thigh 
Vv Right cheek Right side of the heart Right knee 
VI Right jaw Right lung and brest Right calf 
VII Mouth Naval Legs and feet 
Vill Left jaw Left lung and breast Left calf 
Ix Left cheek Left side of the heart Left knee 
4 Left nostril Left hand Left thigh 
XI Left ear Left arm Left testicle 
Xi Left eye Left shoulder Anas 


Meaning of Drekhana: 


The D/3 chart is the extension of the 3"? house of the natal chart. 


It denotes happiness from brothers and sisters. 


The 3" house represents communication, travel, writing, listening, upper 
arm, kindreds and relatives, neighbours, bravery, valour, courage, 
optimism, mental inclination, hard work, adventure, etc. 

If the 3™ house is occupied benefic and friendly planets the native will 
have love and respect from brothers, sisters and kindred. 

If significator Mras (valour, strength, vitality and younger brother) and 
Jupiter (signifying elder brother, gain, progress and bliss) are strong and 
well-placed in the D/3 chart, the native is optimistic, hard working and 
fortunate to have the love and affection of brothers and sisters. 


Interpretation of the three Drekhanas in a sign through Mythology: 


1“ drekhana (0 to 10 degrees): This part is called Narad which suggests that the ascendant 


in this rekhana makes the native intelligent, fond of music and travelling. 


He is noble, 


versatile, friendly and justice loving. He settles al disputes amicably. 


2"* drekhana (10 to 20 degrees): The second part is called Agastya. If the ascendant falls in 
the second decanate, the native is strong, powerful, noble, determined to achieve goals and 
destroy his enemies. Sage Agastya humbled the Vindhya mountains, helped Lord Rama to 
conquer Ravana and drank the whole ocean to destroy the demons hiding in the sea water. 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 87 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


3" drekhana (20 to 30 degrees): The third part is called Durvasa drekana. If the ascendant 
falls in this part, the native is aggressive, hot tempered, rigorous and ruthless. He believes 
in traditions, age old religious customs and practices and any deviation from them would 
make him angry. He does not hesitate to punish the guilty. Durvasa the hermit cursed 
many kings at the slightest provocation, causing suffering and misery to his own disciples. 
He has very strong religious inclination and was a hard taskmaster. He loved perfection. 


D/3 chart or Drekhann: "Field of Psychic Expectation for Matters of Siblings & 


Cousins" 


1.To determine the prognosis for 
siblings/cousins/competitors/communication patterns, look first (of 
course) to all the effects upon [the radix third house] itself. 
Bhratru bhava defines how we function on teams, in small groups. 


2.The house which defines and energizes "'siblings/competitors/courage" sits 
in 3/11 angle to the radix . Tanu bhava is the 1st house of physical 
body, appearance, social stigma based on your appearance, vitality, 
musculature, identity. 


3.Clearly, achieving good siblings & worthy competitors is one of the central 
goals of taking birth in a particular class of physical body. 


4.Then look to the condition of tanu bhava in the radix. Will tanu bhava 
generate the community support (11) and personal courage (3) necessary 
to realize its goals? Can it generate charismatic attractiveness, vitality 
necessary for competition, enthusiasm for life and strong personal 
identity? 


5.Outcome depends on the relationship between the 3/11 houses, their rulers 
and their occupants. 


6.Once the radix 3/11 relationship is established, look for confirmation of 
the "fruits" of the 1st house in the third divisional chart: D-3/Drekkana. 
Drekkana reveals fine detail of how the "results" of taking a particular 
class & composition of physical body will manifest in physical, 
emotional, and mental communication patterns. 


7.The central result of having a body being the development of coordinated 
physical, mental, social, and emotional communication patterns, we gain 
from Drekkana (presuming an accurate birth time) a confirming level of 
detail regarding siblings/competitors/small group process. D-3 shows 
small-group collective thought patterns & this view can help the Jyotishi 
evaluate the native's mental health. 


e Gracious and abundant planets in drekkana indicate successful spiritual work in 
creatively developing one's self and others. If one has tapped into divine identity 
as it manifests in small-group process, one will likely be empowered by strong 
& supportive siblings, close neighbors, & team-mates. 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 88 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


o Conflicted planets in drekkana indicate unresolved psychic difficulty in 
the native's subconscious, which will manifest in this life in the intimate 
mirror of relationships to siblings and team-mates. 


e The good news is, as always: if unconsciously-continued patterns arise into 
consciousness, karma is transformed into wisdom and negative implications of 
the astrological charts may be reversed. 


The Drekhana lagna and results: 


- If Drekhana lagna is occupied, aspected or owned by a benefic planet the 
the native gets name and fame. He is vigorous, powerful, ambitious and 
enthusiastic skilled worker. 

- If Drekahana lagna lord is exalted, posited in own or friendly sign, 
associated or aspected by benefic planet the native gets happiness, success 
and honour in society. 

- If Drekhana lagna or lagna lord is afflicted with evil or malefic planet, the 
native would be timid, weak, pessimist and a poor, lazy aand unskilled 
worker. 

- If Drekhana lagna lord is influenced by good and bad planets the native 
would get mixed results. 


Basics of the delineations of Decanate chart: 


- If decante ascendant lord is posited in a Kendra or exalted sign, it 
indicates a high status of the native. 

- If it is posited in own sign in the natal chart the native has a good family 
background. 

- If it occupies a friendly sign in the natal chart, the native is born is a 
learned and respectable family. 

- In a D/3 chart if the ascendant lord is exalted or occupie a friendly sign or 
is associated or aspected by natural benefic planets the native gets good 
and favourable results. 

- If D/3 ascendant lord is debilitated, occupies enemy’s house or associated 
or aspected by a malefic planet in D/3 chart, the native gets sorrow, grief, 
failure and frustration. 

- If D/3 lord is debilitated or posited in enemy’s house or occupies 6, 8, 12 H 
in D/3 or in the natal chart, the native would suffer grevious injury. But 
at the same time, if the afflicted D-3 lord receives the aspect of natural or 
functional malefic planet, the evil effects would be reduced or mitigated. 

: If D-3 ascendant lord occupies 6" or 8 house in the natal chart the native 
is sadistic with suicidal tendencies. 

- If D-3 lagnesh is Sun or Mars and is posited in the 8 H of the natal chart, 
the native is prone to burns or electric shock (as Sun and Mars denotes 
electricity). 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


89 


- If D-3 lagnesh is posited with Jupiter or Saturn in the 8" H in the natal 
chart, the native suffers due to food poisoning, drug abuse or reaction of 
some medicine. 


9) _D/7 or SAPTAMSH - 7 parts of (30/7°) 


A zodiac sign is divided into 7 equal parts of 4° 17’ 08” 57°” and such a division is called 
Saptamsh and the chart using this division is called Saptamsh or D/7 chart. The seven parts 
of a sign desived are: 


Parts From ge? Vs To shew fe oe 
I 0 00 00 00 0417 08 57 

II 04 17 08 57 08 34 17 14 
Il 08 34 17 14 12 51 25 71 
IV 12 51 25 71 17 08 34 28 
Vv 17 08 34 28 21 25 42 85 
VI 21 25 42 85 25 42 51 42 
25 42 51 42 30 00 0000 


In odd sign the counting starts from own sign while in case of even sign the counting starts 
from the seventh sign. 


Significators of the Seven divisions: 


Sage Prashar States that the lords of the seven divisions are as follows: 


Divisions | Significators | Significators | Meanings of the Seven Significators which are 
in odd signs | inevensigns | in reverse order for the even signs 

I Kshar Shudha Jal Kshar means pungent alkali like caustic soda 
II Ksheer Madya Ksheer means milk 

Il Dadhi Ikshu Dadhi means curd, yoghurt 

IV Ajyam Ajyam Ajyam means Ghee 

Vv Ikshu Dadhi Ikshu means Sugar cane juice 

VI Madya Ksheer Madya means wine 

VII Shudha Jal Kshar Shudha Jal means Pure water 


The implications of the seven significtors in relationship of the children and the native: 


Kshar Saptamsh: the native has no comfort from the children, aggravating pain and adding 
insult to injury; the native suffers humiliation, anxiety and grief because of them. 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 90 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


Ksheer Saptamsh: the native is blessed with modest, faithful and well-mannered children, 
who nourish and sustain the socio-economic status of the children. 


Dadhi Saptamsh: The native is born is blessed with steady, sober, soft and attractive 
children who give happiness to the native. 


Ajyam Saptamsh: the native is blessed with righteous, religious and respectful children, 
who give name, name, fame and prosperity to the native. It gives satvik tendencies to the 
individual who believes in service and sacrifice. 


Ikshurash Saptamsh:The native is blessed with sweet, matured, straight forward and 
comforting children who are of comfort to the native. 


Madya Saptamsh: the children are fun loving, easy going, joyful and help the native to have 
an enjoyable life. The native lives in his own world of illusion, away from the hard reality 
of life. 


Shudhajal Saptamsh: the native is blessed with children who are religious, innocent with 
clean habits and upright character who bring honour and happiness to the native. A school 
of thought are of the opinion that these children need to be protected against the company 
of bad people. 


Saptamsha -- D-7 :"Field of Psychic Expectation for Matters of Children" 


1.To determine the prognosis for Children, look first (of course) to all the effects 
upon putra bhava [the 5th house of creativity] itself. 


2.The house which defines and energizes "children" sits in 3/11 angle to the 
children-house: it is yuvati bhava, the 7th house of marriage. 


3.Clearly, producing children is one of the central goals of marriage. 


4.Examine kalatra bhava in the radix. Will the radix 7th house generate the 
community support (11) and personal courage (3) necessary to realize its goals? 


5.Outcome depends on the relationship between the 3/11 houses, their rulers and 
their occupants. 


6.Once the radix 3/11 relationship is established, look for confirmation of the 
"fruits" of the 7th house in the seventh divisional chart: D-7/Saptamsha. 
Saptamsha reveals fine detail of how the "results" of marriage manifest. 


7.The central result of marriage being children, we gain from Saptamsha 
(presuming an accurate birth time) a confirming level of detail regarding 
children. 


Results of the planets as Saptamsha Lord or Ascendant Lord of D/7 chart 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 91 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


To g ive good results as mentioned below, the planets should be strong, exalted, in own sign, 
in friendly sign, well aspected, etc. 


Sun: the native is brave, renowned, valorous, steady, reputed, powerful and engaged in 
noble deeds. 


Moon: the native is relisious, pious, modest, noble, romantic and learned. 
Mars: the son of the earth, is strong, powerful, unbeatable and egoist. 


Mercury: is modest, sweet-toongued, poetic, skilled in art and craft, learned, attractive, 
eloquent speaker whose talk is full of wisdom. 


Jupiter: is talented, a genius, virtuous, wise, steady, holds a high position amongst learned 
people. 


Venus: sensuous, romantic, fond of entertainment, music, wit and humour, an expert in 
sexual relationship. 


Saturn: hard working, makes wealth through others labour, cruel and could engages in 
sinful activities. 


A few revelations of the D/7 chart: 


- D/7 chart is used to study the happiness derived from children and grand children 
and comforts to the native from them. This chart should be studied with the 5" H, 5" L and 
Jupiter (significator) and the benefic and malefic influence upon them both in the natal 
chart and the D/7 chart. 


- If D/7 ascendant is an odd sign occupied or aspected by a benefic planet the native 
gets comforts and happiness from a male child or son. 


- If D-7 ascendant is an even sign occupied or aspected by benefic planets the native 
gets happiness from daughters. 


- If the ascendant of D/7 chart is occupied or aspected by malefic planet or 1° L of D/7 
is afflicted, the native may not have children or remains worried and troubled because of 
them. 


- If 3" H is occupied or aspected by male planets (the Sun, Mars and Jupiter) the 
native gets a brother younger to him. 


- If 3" H in D/7 chart is occupied or aspected by female planets (Moon, Venus, 
Mercury) the native gets a younger sister to him. 


- If ascendant lord of D/7 chart is associated or aspected by Moon or other benefic 
planets, the native is bold, makes progress, is respected and becomes rich. 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 92 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


- If 3" H of D/7 chart is occupied by Sun, Mars and Jupiter (male planets) the native 
gets [ower and position. 


- If D/7 chart has many exalted planets the native is very wealthy and prosperous. 


- If 1° L of D/7 chart is a malefic planet occupying the sign of another malefic planet 
the native would get bad results regarding children, wealth and social status. 


- According to Varahmihir, if 1° L of D/7 chart is a benefic and is posited in benefic 
sign or square or trine the native gets very good results. He is happy, rich and blessed with 
talented children. 


10) D/9 CHART OR NAVAMSA 


The D/9 chart or Navamsa is the most important of all divisional charts. The 12 signs of the 
zodiac and 27 nakshatras are divided into 108 parts whereby the navamsa forms 1/9™ part 
of the sign and 1/4" part of a Nakshatra. Indications of the 4 parts (quarters) of the 
Nakshatras: 


Ist part Dharma, religion 

2nd part Artha or finance 

3rd part Kama, love, affection and desire 

4th part Moksha, liberation, freedom and bliss 


The 9 parts of the sign are divided into three groups as follows: 


0° to3°. 20’ 3°.20° to 6°.40’ 
10° to 13°.20’ 13°20’ to 16°.40° 
20° to 23°. 20’ 23°.20’ to 26°.20° 


6.40’ to 10° 
16°.40’ to 20° 
26°.40’ to 30’ 


Devta or Divine 


Manushya or Human 


Rakshas or Demon 


Virtuous, wealthy 
Generous, respectable 
Pious, religious 
Worshipped like deity 


Social, truthful 
Sincere, hardworking 
Powerful, eager to help 
Cooperative in nature 


Cruel, wicked 
Violent, greedy 
Envious, adulterous 
Stupid, sinful 


Navamsha - D-9 :"'Field of Psychic Expectation for Matters of Marriage and Spiritual 


Wholeness" 


Barbara Pijan Lama : Why is the 7th house articulated in the 9th harmonic? 


Because marriage is considered to be the most prominent result of religious 
development in past lives. The spouse(s) we marry in the current life have been our 
spiritual partners in past lives. If we developed compassion and understanding for 
others in past lives, all should go well indeed. 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


Navamsha is an exceptionally valuable varga for the key questions of life, which all 
devolve upon how much and what kind of wisdom has been acquired in past lives. 


Generally matters signified by the "swamsha" (lord of navamsha lagna) and the house 
which swamsha rules in radix, are easy to accomplish in this life due to past-life build- 
up of skill & wisdom in those matters. (Not necessarily morally good or profitable or 
approved ... just easy! If swamsha is a criminal planet there will be an easy life of 
crime.) 


Navamsha gives a richly detailed micro-view ones' disembodied life conducted through 
psycho-mental projections. Navamsha represents our psychic field of perception, 
including hidden assumptions & expectations. 


What one profoundly expects to happen, will happen! Not what one wishes or hopes or 
calculates, but subconsciously deeply expects. 


Particularly we live vicariously through the life of the Spouse. Predictions for Marriage, 
development of psycho-spiritual awareness, developments in intentional religious 
education, moral consciousness, and (following from spiritual intentionality) happiness 
in general are read through the navamsha. 


The joy and also the unresolved conflict of one's marriage situation is founded upon the 
physical, emotional, social, and spiritual consciousness which obtained in past life (and 
which usually continues unconsciously into the present life). 


A smooth and prosperous navamsha indicates committed spiritual work in 
previous lives. If you have reflected the divine in others so will others reflect the 
divine in you. /*79+/0 


Differences between D/1 chart and D/9 chart 


Many scholars are of the opinion that if the: 


93 


D/1 (rasi) chart is : then the D/9 chart is : 

1) The body The backbone 

2) The tree The fruit 

3) a mere photograph The X-ray photograph 

A school of thought is of the opinion that : 

a) a planet occupying exalted, own or friendly sign in D/9 chart would give good and 
benefic result despite the fact that it is placed in debilitated or inimical sign. 

b) a planet though ill-placed in D/1 chart would give benefic results, provided its 
position is improved by aspect, association and lordship the D/9 chart. 

c) it would be appropriate to observe the D/9 chart along with the D/1 chart and the 


Moon chart to study malefic and benefic effects of planets. 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 94 


d) 


e) 


ASTROLOGY PART II 


D/9 chart has become a supplementary chart to D/1 chart to confirm many aspects 
of the D/1 chart. 


D/9 chart has been used to study marital bliss, married life and conjugal happiness. 
It also shows the statud of in-laws, nature and their cooperation to the native. 


Many modern scholars have emphasized that the D/9 chart should be analysed 
house-wise just like the D/1 chart. 


Pushkar Navamsa: 


Puskar navamsas occur in the following signs and degrees as stated below: 


Element Signs Degrees of puskar navamsa 

Fire Aries, Leo, Sagittarius 20° to 23°.20’ & 26°.40’ to 30° 
Earth Taurus, Virgo, Capricorn 6.40’ to 10° & 13°.20’ to 16°.40° 
Air Gemini, Libra, Aquarius 16°.40’ to 20° and 23°.20’ to 26°.40’ 
Water Cancer, Scorpio, Pisces 0° to 3°.20’ and 6.40’ to 10° 


- Jupiter in puskar navamsa makes the native wealth, learned and 
prosperous. 

- All the 7 planets posited in puskar navamsas make the native rich, famous, 
happy and enjoys all the luxuries and comforts of life. 

- Two or more planets occupying puskar navamsas make the native 
fortunate, wealthy and splendourous. 


64'" Navamsa 


The 64" navamsa from lagna or the Moon plays an important role in the native’s life. Death 
can happen when the Moon transits over the 64" navamsa from the Ascendant or from the 
Natal Moon. 


Rahu’s transit over the 64 navamsa may cause death of a closer relative. 


The Lagnesh of the Moon chart could affect the longevity of the native if it has the following 
configurations to the lord of the 64" navamsa: 


- life could be short if is inimical to the 64" navamsa lord 
- life could be of medium length if is neutral to the 64" navamsa lord 
- life could be long if it is friendly to the lord of the 64 navamsa lord 


If the lord of the 64" navamsa is posited in 6, 8 or 12" house and is assocated with 


11) 


g) Saturn, the native dies by swallowing poison 
h) Rahu or Ketu, the native will be hanged till death. 


D/10_ OR DASHAMSA 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 95 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


A sign of 30° is divided into ten dqual divisions of 3° degrees each, this division is used to 
construct the D/10 chart. 


In odd signs the counting starts from the sign where the planet is posited. 
In even signs the counting starts from the nth house from the sign occupied by the planet. 


D/10 chart indicates the prestige, power and importance in society; it studies the social 
status, prosperity, success and fame. D/10 chart is an extension of the 10 house in the 
natal chart. 


Nitin Kashyap says in Profession and Dashamsha Lords “In my opinion, prediction of 
vocation and guidance in professional life can easily be considered to be among one of the 
toughest areas in Astrology. I have been doing some research on vocation and choice of 
profession life of people. In the past, there were very limited options as far as jobs are 
concerned. In this modern day and age, things have changed are in this era of 
specialization, jobs are too many to choose from. This poses interesting problems for an 
astrologer to solve. 


The content in this article is my attempt to apply some of the knowledge passed down by 
gurus. Dashamsha is the divisional chart that relates to profession and success and failure in 
professional life should be judged from this chart. I have looked at a few charts to try and 
derive the modern meaning of Dashamsha.” 


For assessing professional life, we have to look for the following: 


e Lord of the Tenth House 

e Planets aspecting tenth house 

e Planets situated in tenth house 

e Tenth House mid point (Bhaav Madhya) 


If you recall how Dashamsha is calculated, we need to take the longitude of the lagna and 
see which tenth of rashi division does it fall under. Accordingly, the dashamsha lagna is 
calculated. 


These ten parts can be thought of corresponding to ten directions. The lords of these 
directions along with the significance that can be accorded to them in the current yuga are 
as follows: 


e Indra is the king of Gods, i.e. Devraj. He is the head of the department and wields 
control over other staff in the place of work. 

e Needless to say, Agni would rule professions related to fire, i.e. jobs that that need a 
lot of energy and aggression. Police, security and places where a furnace is at the 
center of affairs. 

e Yama is puctual, follows rules and is “niyam ka pakka”. He controller institutions 
that make laws. Naturally, it relates to court of law and associated professions - 
judges, lawyers, etc. 

e The mind of a Rakshasa is not constructive and wanders a lot. A Rakshasa has 
serious problems with authority and with taking advice from others. A Rakshasa is 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 96 


ASTROLOGY PART II 


therefore a law breaker. It can also denote department of municipal corporation in 
cities that have the responsibility of destrying illegal construction, encroachment etc. 
Varun relates to water. Sailor and professions related to ships are professions 
denoted by Varun. Water is also the basis of all life on earth. Varun can therefore be 
related to medical profession as well. 

Ever changing and freely flowing, Vaayu, i.e. air relates to profession where 
dissemination of ideas is important. Examples of such professions are - teaching, 
consulting, writing books, poems etc. Its effect can also make a person change their 
profession as well. 

Kuber presides over the treasury of Gods. His work therefore relates to finance, 
stock market, banks and currency market. 

Ishaan is the son of Brahma. His work relates to taking care of people in need etc. 
Hence, in the current context, this may be applied to organizations doing social 
service, e.g. NGOs 

Brahma is the creator. His influence on professional life would be towards the 
manufactering industry. 

Literally translated as “infinite”, Anant’s influence would be spread all over the 
world - akin to working in a multinational company. 


To work out the Deva/lord that is applicable, the mid point (bhava madhya) of tenth house 
should be looked at. Based on the sign falling in the tenth house, the following table should 


be referred to. 


Degree Odd Sign Even Sign 
0° - Indra Anant 

3° - Agni Brahma 
6° - Yama Ishaan 

9° - 12° Rakshasa Kubera 
12° - 15° Varun Vaayu 
15° - 18° Vaayu Varun 
18° - 21° Kubera Rakshasa 
21° - 24° Ishaan Yama 
24° - 27° Brahma Agni 

27° - 30° Anant Indra 


12) D/30- TRISHANSH CHART 


The Trinshansh Divisions of the different signs are given below: 


Odd signs Degrees | Trinsansh | Deity Even signs Degrees | Trinshans | Deity 
ruler Lords h Lord: 
ruler 
1,3, 5,7, 9,11 2,4,6,8,10,12 
1 Aries 0 tos Mars Fire 2 Taurus 0 tos Venus Cloud 
11 5 to 10° | Saturn Air 6 Virgo 5-12 Mercury Kube! 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 97 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


Aquarius 10° to Jupiter Indira | 12 Pisces 12° to Jupiter Indira 
9 18° Mercury Kuber | 10 20° Saturn Air 
Sagittarius | 18° to Venus Cloud | Capricorn 02° to Mars Fire 
3 Gemini 25° 8 Scorpio 25° 
7 Libra 25° to 25° to 

30 30 


- This chart is used to detmine evil influence, adversities, misfortunes, 
difficulties, obstructions, calamities, etc. 

- The purpose of assigning lordship to different deities is to ascertain the 
root-cause of a problem faced by the native and suggest suitable remedial 
measures. 


The Fire God (Vahni): These divisons of the Fire God Vahni of which Mars is the ruler, 
represents anger, grief and denotes bilious problems. Through the sacrificial fire we offer 
food to the deities The native suffers from high temperature, burns, injuries, wounds, blood 
related diseses, serious operation, abortion or miscarriage, electric shock, bilious problems 
or injury due to fire arms 


The Wind God (Vayu): The divisions represented by the Wind God and ruled by Saturn 
givesw sufferings through complex and chronic diseases with slow recovery like paralysis, 
hysteria, fits, lunacy, cancer, injury due to fall, wind problems of the body, catastrophies 
due to cyclone and storms, rheumatism, body pain, respiratory problems, painful joints, etc. 


Indira, the king of deities: These divisions of Indira under the lordship of Jupiter gives 
sufferings due to excess of fat, anaemia, jaundice, conflict over a temple, suffers due to a 
curse by a brahamin, punishment by a court due to legal lapses or enemity with the 
government, due to poison from a herb called Indira. 


Kuber, the treasurer of the deities, rules the divisions of Mercury. The native has strained 
relationships with maternal side, poor memory, nervous and emotional breakdowns, 
insanity, skin disease, financial losses or financial losses or penalties imposed by the 
government for economic offences. 


Megh (Cloud) is the deity of water and regent of the ocean. These divisions have the 
lordship of Venus and sufferings are caused in the reproductive or generative system, 
kidney stones, fear of ghosts, sufferings due to floods and heavy rains or water-borne 
diseases, sexual and veeral diseases, low vitality, scandals of illegal relationships, etc. 


Death and D/30 Chart: 


- If 8" L of D/30 chart is a benefic or if the 8" L is associated or aaspected 
by a benefic planet the native dies a natural and peaceful death in a holy 
place. 

- If 8" L of D/30 chart is a malefic planet or is assocated or aspected by a 
malefic planet the native would have a sudden accidental death from fire 
or water. 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 98 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


- If 8" L of D/30 chart is aspected by a benefic planet, the native would have 
a painless death. 

- If 8 L of D/30 chart is aspected by evil planet the native might get a 
painful, accidental death. 


D/10 chart ascertains the following: 


- Progress and growth in business or service and the significator is Jupiter. 

- Karma or types of actions, whose significator is Saturn. 

- Generation of wealth and profession and career, whose significator is 
Mercury 

- Acquisition of power, position or authority, whose significator is the Sun. 

- This charts assesses the inclination and aptitude of the native for a 
particular profession and the amount of success. 

- It indicates the field of activity by which the native can have good fortune. 


A study and analysis of the “arthtrikon” or financial trine composed of the 2"’, 6" and 10™ 
houses should be done. Planets in these houses do influence the wealth and position of the 
native. 


The “Dasham Pad” or 10" from the 10" house (i.e., the 7" House) plays a very important 
role. The following planets influence position and career as stated below: 


Planets in 7 H of D/10 | Results in professions, career, etc. 

chart 

The Sun Gives political career — the Sun signifies king. 

The Moon Service in hotels, restaurants and confectionery 

Mars Gives service in Police, Army, etc. 

Mercury Gives business , journalism, writing, publishing jobs 
Jupiter Produces judges, lawyers and consultants 

Venus Gives entertainment and jobs related to art and beauty 
Saturn Gives labour, menial jobs and work related to machinery 
Rahu Indicates imports 

Ketu Indicates exports 


The 6" H rules service while the 7" H influences business. If the 6 H is strong or occupied 
by strong benefic planets, the native could get a good job. If the 7" H is strong, the native 
would be engaged in business. A debilitated malefic planet in the 7™ H encourages service. 


Planets in quadrants or kendras of D/10 chart give promotion and profit during their main 
period or subperiod. Planets occupying trikon (trine) or the 5,9" lords would give 
facours aand fortune through friends, superiors, etc. in the main or sub periods. 


In a D/10 chart the lagna denotes self, 6 service and 10" power and success attained. The 
third houses from these are 3", 8" and 12 houses. These houses could create problems 
during their planetary lordships: 8" showing retirement, 3 showing short leave and 12" 
indicating long leave. 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 99 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


Effects of Planets and their indications in the 10" House: 


1. Sun and Mars get directional strength in the 10 H and ensures 
dynamism and success to the native. 

2. The Sun indicates glory, respect, authority, status and help from 
superiors, senior officers or political leaders. 

3. The Moon gives success in public dealings and activities related with 


liquids. He is an expert in reading others mind andhelps them overcome 
turmoil or stress. 

4. Mars makes the native strong and powerful with administrative skills. He 
uses all types of tools and machines to improve the efficiency at the work 
place and fights his way through. 


5. Mercury is connected with reading, writing and collection of information, 
It controls communication, media and various modes of transport. 
6. Jupiter is connected with money and jobs related with finance. He uses 


knowledge and intellect in depth and serves as advisor or counselor. 
Malleable and changeable articles like plastic are ruled bu Jupiter, The 
native could be a writer, publisher, philosopher or priest. 

7. Venus rules all high-value, luxuty items as ornaments, computers, 
refrigerators, cars, jewellery, etc. Work related with beauty, beauty aids, 
cosmetics, [photography, modeling, cinema, poetry, etc. are ruled by 


Venus. 

8. Saturn in the 10" H could give rapid rise and fall; hard mential work and 
relationship with the workforce. 

9. Rahu-Ketu denotes electronic devices. Rahu denotes big companies, 


factories or construction projects whereas Ketu denotes small gadgets or 
labour-saving devices. 


XXI NAKSHATRAS IN ASTROLOGY 


In Hindu mythology the Nakshastras, were invented by Daksha, and are personified as 
daughters of the deity and as mythological wives of Chandra, the moon god. Some even 
make them the daughters of Kashyapa, the brother of Daksha.""! 


A nakshatra or lunar mansion is one of the 27 or 28 divisions of the sky, identified by the 
prominent star(s) in them, that the Moon passes through during its monthly cycle, as used 
in Hindu astronomy and astrology. Therefore, each represents a division of the ecliptic 
similar to the zodiac (13°20’ each instead of the 30° for each zodiac sign). The orbit of the 
moon is 27.3 days, so the Moon takes approximately one day to pass through each 
nakshatra. 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 100 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


Dr. David Frawley in his Introduction to Nakshatras says “It was to the Moon that the 
ancient people first looked for calculating time and connecting to the stars. The Moon is the 
basis of the heavenly clock. The first zodiac, therefore, would have been lunar.” 


He further says : “theVedic Nakshatras arose from such a spiritual perception of the 
cosmos. The Nakshatras represent the abodes into which the fruits of our labour, our 
karma, is transferred and stored. The Nakshatras are the mansions of the Gods or cosmic 
powers and of the Rashis or sages. They can also project negative or anti-divine forces, just 
as certain planets like Saturn have well-know malefic affects.” Some scholars derive 
Nakshatra from “na” and “kshatras” = not destructible. 


In Indian astrology the Moon Nakshatra is the main indicator of personality types, much 
like the Sun sign is in Estern astrology. The Moon’s Nakshatra and its qualities is an 
important tool of self-discovery and useful for all counselling and psychological purposes, 
giving an insightful new way to look at the world. The Nakshatras are also the basis of the 
mantras or primal sounds of he soul used for naming children in India and for yogic 
practices as well. 


Each of the nakshatras is governed as 'lord' by one of the nine graha in the following 
sequence: Ketu (South Lunar Node), Shukra (Venus), Ravi or Surya (Sun), Chandra 
(Moon), Mangala (Mars), Rahu (North Lunar Node), Guru or Brihaspati (Jupiter), Shani 
(Saturn) and Budha (Mercury). This cycle repeats itself three times to cover all 27 
nakshatras. The lord of each nakshatra determines the planetary period known as the 
dasha , which is considered of major importance in forecasting the life path of the 
individual. 


The list of Nakshatras is found in the Vedic texts (AV 19.7; Taittiriya Samhita) and also in 
the Shatapatha Brahmana. The first astronomy text that lists them is the Vedanga Jyotisha 
of Lagadha. 


The starting point for the nakshatras is the point on the ecliptic directly opposite to the star 
Spica called Chitra in Sanskrit (other slightly-different definitions exist). It is called Meshadi 
or the "start of Aries". The ecliptic is divided into each of the nakshatras eastwards starting 
from this point. 


Nakshatras and the Three Worlds 

According to Hindu mythology there are three worlds or 'Lokas': Swarga (Heaven) Loka, 
Prithvi (Earth) Loka and Mrityu or Narakha (Hell) Loka. The Nakshtras too are divided 
into three groups or 'Ganas' 


e Nakshatras- ASHWINI (Horse Woman) : THE STAR OF TRANSPORT 
o Western star name: B and yArietis (Beta Arietis) 
o Lord: Ketu (South lunar node) 
o Symbol: Horse's head Deity : Ashwini Kumaras, the horse-headed twins 
who are physicians to the gods 
o Indian zodiac: 0° - 13°20' Mesha ; Western zodiac 26° Aries - 9°20' Taurus 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 101 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


Ashwini Translation: Horseman 

Deities :Ashwini Kumars (Health), Shiva, Surya 

Symbol: Horse”s Head 

Animal Symbol:Male Horse 

Greek equivalent: Asklepios, the father of healing in ancient times A good 

Nakshatra for administering medicines or performing healing work and at 

Horse Head _ times miracles are experienced in this Nakshatra. Shidhra Vyapani Shakti : 
the power to quickly heal and reach things. 


Ashvini (aSvini) is the name of a Hindu constellation (the head of Aries, or the first of the 27 
Nakshatras). Personified, Ashvini is the wife of the Ashvins (Rigveda 5.46.8), later also 
considered their mother. The Ashvin are young twins. They are the embodiment of the 
great power that ushers in the dawn. They represent the movement from darkness to light, 
from ignorance to knowledge. They are the physicians to the devas, the Gods, and their 
sacred energy alone is enough to destroy disease and bring about good health. 


The symbol of the Ashvin is honey. Honey has many miraculous properties, a fact that was 
known to the peoples of ancient days. Honey is the medicine of the Gods. It has the power to 
cure many illnesses, it purifies the body of all kinds of taints. It has a beneficial physical, 
mental and spiritual effect. Sweetness too, is a quality of the Ashvin. 


Ashwini is the first nakshatra of the zodiac having a spread from 0°-0'-0" to 13°-20' and is 
ruled by the node Ketu. Ashwini is governed by the Ashwins, the twin horsemen. The Sun is 
Exalted here and the horse is the preferred transport of the Sun God. Sun's exaltation in 
Ashwini is a reminder to the soul of their eternal connection. 


In the zodiac at 0° in Mesha there is a reddish star which the western astronomers call 
Arietis. The Indians named it Aswini. The deity for Aswini Nakshatra is Aswi or the Duality 
known as Aswini Kumar Twins, the physician of the Gods. The Puranas relate that the two 
Aswini Kumaras were born of mother Sanga and father Ravi. Ashwini nakshatra falls in 
the zodiac sign of Mesha, which is ruled by the aggressive and fiery planet Mars. 


The mystic ideas of Asvini the ancients. told in many tales in mythology. The symbolical 
expression of Asvini is 'Dawn' — personified as the sons (in twin ideas) of Ravi (light) and 
Chaya (shadow) — day and night; once in the morning and again in the evening. It 
represents twin ideas — Jnana (wisdom) and Ajnana (ignorance); birth and death creation 
and destruction; the visible world and the inv invisible space around. 


In mythology, Asvini kumara— the personified dawn, make their journey across the heaven 
in three wheeled and spring bearing golden chariots drawn by birds or horses. Asvini is 
predominantly Tamo Guna an attribute that is so essential for the destruction of evil 
propensities and to turn to Suva karma. The stories describe that Asvini kumara procured 
Madhu (honey) for Gods and together with Saraswati (Goddess of knowledge) introduced 
Soma — wine (spirit) into the cult. They were refused drinks and equal status with Gods 
but they were reconciled to Indra (God of senses, Indriya) and had to be admitted to Yajna 
(sacrifice, religious activities; Dharmic karma}. The stories aim to say that it has ability to 
progress from wrong to right and can assert to secure a rightful position by the help of 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 102 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


knowledge. 

There is an emphasis in their role as helpers and heroes who save and heal. They restored 
the decrepit Chyavana's youth; saved Bhjyu, the son of Tugru from sinking into the sea and 
rescued Atri whom the demon had put i.ito a burning pot. They are beautiful, young, quick- 
moving physicians. Their typical epithet is 'Miraculous' 


A person born in this Nakshatra is inclined towards serving others, is humble by nature, is 
truthful, has a contented family life. Ashwini Nakshatra brings about quick aid and 
energization. People born in Ashwini are very active, always busy doing something and they 
will spend their time keeping their house neat and clean. 


Ashwini rules all forms of transportation and fast travel. This represents a person with a 
happy, carefree disposition, very intelligent, infact rather an above-average person in this 
respect. Vast learning, well developed brain power, faith in religion, sacrificing tendency, 
ambitions, philosophical and social are the traits of those born under this nakshatra. 


Ascendant in Ashwini: Adventurous spirit, love of travel, brilliant eyes, magnetic look, 
respectful, prominent, modest, efficient. 


Moon in Ashwini: Intelligent, bright mind, attractive, beautiful and attractive, haapy and 
gives hope to others, fond of music and fine arts, love travel, attracted to spiritual 
development, devoted to family, etc. 


The moon in Ashvini indicates a person who is a pioneer, innovator and explorer, who is 
heroic, courageous, restless, impatient, with a zest for life. They have a strong desire to be of 
service to others. They are energetic, magnetic and attractive, and are quick in speech and 
actions. However, they can also be inconsiderate and irresponsible 


Sun in Ashwini, Regal, proud, business skills, aggressive, militant, leadership, desire for 
power and fame, authority and position. 


Shadowy sides of Ashwini: impulsiveness, aggression, stubborn and arrogan nature. 
Passion, lust and lack of discretion may be present if afflicted planets are placed on this 
Nakshatra. Adolf Hitler had an exalted Sun placed on this Nakshatra. Venus on Ashwini 
bring difficulties in sexuality. Saturn on this Nakshatra brings dissatisfaction, 
disappointments, lack of mental quietude and fear of criticism. 


Career Interests: Psyschologists, theologists, physicians, healers, mystics, military 
personnel, police, criminal courts, merchants, salespeople, musicians, horse trainers, 
jockeys, architecture, stock broking, business, interior design, flying, driving, riding and 
sports etc. 


Health issues and concerns : head injuries, headaches, mental illness, small pox, malaria, 


predisposed to muscular injuries and those of you leading very active lives should be 
careful, as accidents are common to _ people born under this nakshatra. 


e Nakshatras- BHARNI (Bearer of New Life) THE STAR OF RESTRAINT 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 103 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


o Western star name: 35, 39, and 41 Arietis 
o Lord: Shukra (Venus) 
o Symbol: Yoni, the female organ of reproduction Deity: Yama, god of death 


or Dharma 
o Indian zodiac: 13° 20' - 26°40' Mesha ; Western zodiac 9° 20' - 22° 40' 
Taurus 
— Bharani, means "The Bearing Star" 


Deties : Yama, the God of Death, Shaktis, the wife of Shiva. Yama means 
“the binder”, referring to sacrifice and yogic disciplines, hatha yoga 
andmeditation. Symbol: Yoni (female sex organ) 

Animal symbol: Elephant 


The Elephant 
: -Apabharani shakti: the power to cleanse and remove impurities. 


This is the second nakshatra of the zodiac is Bharni, ranging from 13°-20' to 26°-40'. The 
planet of art and beauty, the Venus, rules this nakshatra. The energy of Bharani is called 
ugra or krura, which translates as harsh, powerful, hot, formidable and fierce. In 
Hinduism, 'Bharani’ is a goddess of good luck.“ Like her sister Anuradha, she is a 
daughter of Daksha, and wife of Chandra.. 


Symbol: Orifice of the.womb (oss-mouth) lord Mangal. It is possible to have an idea of the 
natut.e of Bharavi Nakshatra from the nature of Rahu, Mangal and Yama. To take Rahu 
first 


1. Rahu gives extravagant enjoyment of material pleasure and is later on the cause of 
sorrow. 

2. Mangal gives courage, strength, exaltation and hope 

3. Yama purity, cleanliness, justice and integrity. The sense of restraint is also Yama's: gift; 
he is; the lord of Dharma a stern disciplinarian, a ruthless expositor of truth and a refuge 
for kings and law-abiding subjects. We should not always confine his interpretation to his 
being only the lord of death; he is the great judicature the ultimate dispenser of reward and 
punishment. 


The story of Yama-Nachiketa is a particularly an exposition of the hospitality of Yama, his. 
sense; of dharma and knowledge of it, his superb honesty and great integrity and other 
divine virtues. The Nakshatra of which he is the,;devata-(God) is' also in consequence the 
sgiver, ;of. enjoyment and. Pleasures, courage and upward thrust of the spirit and on the 
other hand the giver of whatever is good, pure, truthful and honest. 

The etymological meaning of Bharani is "what deserves to be cultivated and preserved" 
that is dependence, servitors, retainers or anything by which living is earned, for example 
salary. 


In Mesha, next to Asvini, there are three stars in one and are conceived as a triangle 
without opening. This is called Bharani. The star Bharani represents the character of Agni 
Rasi Tamo Guna, In a life the destructive forces of Tama Guna and the expressive 
character of Agni work within and make changes that start from within. It denotes 
experiences of suffering, suppression, restraint in struggles, strife, contest and such other 
circumstances as presented by Mangala. The Agni energy provides a great will power, 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 104 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


forbearance to withstand it by self-control, discipline. The Devata of Bharani is Yama 
Dharma Raja (lord of virtues). Truth, duty, morality are the blessings it effects in the life. 
The effect makes one a saint. 


The ideas of Bharani are similar to Rahu. who eclipses or hides and then again it releases. 
Womb has similar function. By name Bharani (from Bharana, Bharana-posana — feeding 
and rearing up) it connotes the act of maintaining, bearing in the womb, edibles, load, 
burden, to hire, wages, etc. 

In mythology Yama is personified as the son of Vibasvan (Surya or Ravi) and the lord of 
our forefathers. The south is the lord of our forefathers — Pittrijana (Pittri — paternal; 
jana-vehicle). The abode of God is on the north. Devajana {Deva — God; jana — vehicle, 
path) is on the north. Bharani gives direction to the south, [Makara to Mithuna clockwise is 
Devajana; Karkata to Dhanus anticlockwise is Pittrijana.] 


This star is under the planetary lordship of Venus and is within the sign of Aries, ruled by 
Mars. The star Bharani represents the character of Agni Rasi Tamo Guna. The 
etymological meaning of Bharani is "what deserves to be cultivated and preserved" that is 
dependence, servitors, retainers or anything by which living is earned. Bharani's animal 
symbol is the Elephant.This star is connected with the energies we expend to maintain 
ourselves in the material world. 


Bharani Nakshatra takes away that which has reached its term of life to a new condition. It 
shows the movement of the soul away from the body. It conveys ideas pertaining to 
discipline, self-control to be faithful, be firm, enduring supporting, maintaining, nourishing, 
etc. In case of strong malefic influences , persons may develop extreme tendencies like 
crimes, murders, terrorism, etc., can also be fanatical in their beliefs, which can lead to ups 
and downs in life. 


If a person is born in this Nakshatra, he is cruel, ungrateful and no sense of indebtness, 
achieves notoriety, fears water, is restless and wicked.They are stable, knowledgeable and 
truthful. Bharni born are honest and they are frank in their opinions and do not want to 
modify their opinions to please others. An interesting feature of those born in Bharni is that 
they are quiet fond of spreading rumors. 


Females born in this nakshatra are career minded. They act more like a leader of a group, 
rather than an ordinary family member. Bharani- born have agnetic personality, changing 
moods, business minded, influential, high position 


Ascendant in Bharni: Courageous, pioneering spirit, proud, confident, famous, good health, 
vibrant, help their friends and family, fond of family. 


Moon in Bharni: Attractive, charismatic, leadership, public life, healthy and free from 
disease, dutiful, investigating in occult studies, success through writing and publishing. 


The moon in Bharani indicates a person who suffers struggles and restraint and obstacles in 
life. They can be resentful of these restrictions and jealous of the good fortune of others. 
They will inflict oppression on others, or else fight to liberate themselves and others from 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 105 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


oppression. They are intelligent and witty and love the fine things of life, but they can also 
be fanatical in their beliefs, which can lead to ups and downs in life. 


Sun in Bharni: intelligent, tactful, fame, respected, creative nature, militant nature having 
issues with anger and pride, wealthy. The Sun on this Nakshatra (Sigmund Freud) has an 
acive, pioneering and explorative nature. 


Career interests: chemical engineering, civil engineering and construction, architecture, 
design, landscaping publishers, writers, film and music industry, occultists, psychics, 
hypnotists, astrologers, psychologists, entrepreneurs, business people, financial consultants, 
lawyers, building contractors. 


Health_issues:problemswith reproductive organs, veneral disease, face and eyesight 
problems, head injuries, nervous and stress related health problems. 


Shadowy side of Bharni:There is struggle and suffering. As a krura Nakshatra can relate to 
imprisonment and other forms of confinement. They can be restless, irritable and 
impatient. They can be extreme so far as morality and judgemental decisions are concerned. 
Pride, arrogance and resentment (Sadam Hussein) may be experienced. Indulgence in 
sexuality, vanity and narcissism (Mars of Maddona) is observed in this asterism. 


e Nakshatras- KRITTIKA (One Who Cuts) THE STAR OF FIRE 
o Western star name: Pleiades (Eta Tauri) 
o Lord: Ravi (Sun) 
o Symbol: Knife or spear Deity : Agni, god of fire 
o Indian zodiac: 26°40' Mesha - 10° Vrishabha ; Western zodiac 22° 40' 
Taurus - 6° Gemini 


Krittika is ruled by Agni, the God of Fire. 

Symbol: Flame or Razor 

Animal symbol: Female sheep 

It represent the Dahana Shakti, the power to burn or to cuty away negativity 
to get to the deepest truth. 


Razor 


The star cluster K°ttika, , popularly transliterated "Krittika" sometimes known as Kartika, 
corresponds to the open star cluster Pleiades in Indian astronomy and Jyoti a (Indian 
astrology). The name literally translates to "the cutters". 


According to Hindu mythology, the god Murugan was raised by the six sisters known as the 
Kottika and thus came to be known as Kartikeya (literally "Him of the Kartika"). 


According to the Mahabharata, Murugan was born to Agni and Svahi, after the latter 
impersonated six of the seven wives of the Saptar°i and made love to him. The Saptarshi, 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 106 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


hearing of this incident and doubting their wives’ chastity, divorced them. These wives then 
became the K™tika. 


Agni is the symbol of brightness and brilliance and all weapons with fire-power. And other 
things of this same category come within the range of Krittika group. The fire is considered 
as purifier for it burns away all that is sordid, dark and dull, also all that is low and sinful 
and inauspicious in the world. The dross thus blazed away, only effulgence and light 
remain. Fire gives the earth its activity and dynamic and revives it after spells of cold that 
periodically inflict comatose condition on the earth. 


It is easy enough to deduce from fire the causal effect of the Krittika group. Mangal is the 
lord of that part of Krittika which is in Mesa Rasi and Mangal is like a mass of lightning in 
shining splendor. So the Krittika in Mesha is devastatingly brilliant, the effulgence being 
closely associated with an incendiary character. 


The Krittika of Vrshabha Rasi is brilliant but unlike the Krittika of Mesa, is not incendiary. 
The lord of Vrshabha Rasi is Sukra and Sukra stands for worship of beauty and for poetry 
and imagination. He is radiantly white like Snow, the ‘Kunda’ flower and the 'Utpal’. He is 
also the encyclopedic expounder of all branches of learning. It follows that the Krittika of 
Vrshabha Rasi is brilliant but the brilliance does not burn. It is soft and sweet and benign. 
The Krittika of Mesha Rasi is doubtless brilliant, it has plenty of heat which burns. The 
Krittika of Vrshabha Rasi has on the contrary a softened radiance, a wave of brightness 
that does not hurt. In Western Astrology Krittika has been described as an incendiary star. 


Devata Agni is the oldest of all gods and used to be worshipped all over the world. Old 
Romans addressed Him Vesta and worshipped Him without image. 


“No image Vesta’s semblance can express 
Fire is too subtle to admit of dress” 


‘Agni remains hidden in wood, plants and water [terrestrial or aerial] Born in the sky it 
descends in form of lightning and the Sun and is the source of energy. It is at the root of all 
creation and expression of speech. In mythology it is ‘Master of the House, Domestic god 
and head of the clan’. There are many names of Agni, each is used in inviting and 
worshipping Agni for particular function and occasion. 

Krittika, therefore, denotes capability to give a desired change in a form by burning out all 
the impurities of life or the wrongs and give birth to purity, morality and virtues. 


Mythology describes Krittika as the foster mother of Kartik devata who is beautiful in 
appearance and an able commander in a battle. He is still worshipped in South India. The 
ideas of Krittika are related to the ideas of a commander, fighter, a foster mother, nurse or 
an adopted child;. Since the root power of every action is Agni, either action of the senses, 
or digestion, or the existence of life, it is first worshipped in all Pujas (divine service). For 
different actions (Karmas) the same Agni is worshipped by different names. Agni is 
conceived in three planes physical, mental and spiritual. Krittika in Mesa (Tamo Guna) 
represents physical creative force. Krittika in Vrshabha (Raja Guna) represents the 
function of Agni (creative faculty) in mental plane. 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 107 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


Krittika by name connotes Kirti — a great achievement, monumental deeds that are 
famous; Kartan — to cut, divide, to trim; also its instrument, viz., sword, knife, razor, etc. 


In Krittika the portion that is in Mesa has ideas of burning sensations or feelings. It may be 
the fire of the stomach, body or mind. This is due to the characteristic of Mesa and 
Mangala. But Krittika in Vrshabha speaks for luster and glow of power, full of warmth and 
feelings. This is due to ideas of Vrshabha and Sukra. 


Krittika is also known as the "Star of Fire" and is related to a commander, fighter, foster 
mother, lustre, glow of power, physical and creative force. Krittika being a female 
nakshatra suggests passivity, indicating that Krittika needs outer energy or life 
circumstance to activate their power. 


This is the third nakshatra of the zodiac, spanning 26°-40' in Mesha to 10°-00' in 
Vrishabha. Kritikka is considered the nakshatra where power is born. This is the birth star 
of Chandra. The passivity of this nakshatra represents their ability to nurture power. 
Mythology describes Krittika as the foster mother of Kartik devata who is beautiful in 
appearance and an able commander in a battle. 


Krittika Nakshatra burns up negativity, purifies what is mixed, and cooks or prepares that 
which is not yet ripe.This nakshatra rules war, battles, and disputes. Planets in Krittika 
activate its passive energy. Krittika denotes capability to give a desired change in a form by 
burning out all the impurities of life or the wrongs and give birth to purity, morality and 
virtues. 


People with this nakshatra have a cutting wit and can be sarcastic and critical. They are 
stubborn, aggressive and can be very angry. Those born under Krittika nakshatra have 
strained relations with relatives and friends. However, these persons are gluttons, fond of 
spicy foods, well-versed academically, fond of opposite sex, bright in appearance , misers, 
worried nature and of widespread fame. 


Those born on a Krittika day are fiery and full of creative energy. They like to take on big 
projects and are highly ambitious and self-motivated.Vast learning, logical, doubting mind, 
creative ability, unsteady fortune, hot bod, enthusiastic, engineering brain and brave are 
their typical characteristics. 


Ascendant in Krittika: Dignified, proud, honourable, ambitious, skilful, wealthy, truthful, 
honest, strong apetite, wavering mind at times. 


Moon in Krittiak: Brilliant appearance, well-known, peaceful nature, good advisor, strong 
in purpose, determined, intelligent, unstable mind, gifts in fine arts, moves away from birth 
place, combative nature at times. The moon in Krittika indicates a person who is sharp, 
penetrating, sarcastic and critical. They are proud, ambitious, determined and focused on 
achieving their goals. They can be crusaders against injustice, protective of others, 
persistent and stubborn, but also aggressive and fiery. 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 108 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


The first 3°20” of Kirtikka falls in Aries, which brings in aspirations for radical changes in 
personal and social life. The remaining 10° of this constellation falls in Taurus giving gifts 
of fine arts, beauty, elegance and fashionable dress. 


Sun in Krittika: Spiritual warrior, disciplined, leadership, power over the masses, issues 
with authority figures, need for seclusion, solitude, gift in music, dance and drama, angry 
temperament, destructive. 


Career Interests: Spiritual teachers, advisors, musicians, dancers, singers, modeling, 
fashion designers, military careers, building contractos. 


Health issues: neck ache, throat soreness, headaches, fever, malaria. 


Shadowy side: Stubborness, aggressive nature, destructive tendencies, a passive-aggressive 
personality, illicit affairs and attraction to others’ mates. 


e Nakshatras- ROHINI (Red One) THE STAR OF ASCENT 
o Western star name: Aldebaran (Alpha Tauri) 
o Lord: Chandra (Moon) 
o Symbol: Cart or chariot, temple, banyan tree Deity : Brahma or Prajapati, 
the Creator 
o Indian zodiac: 10° - 23°20' Vrishabha ; Western zodiac 6° - 19°20' Gemini 


Deities :Brahma, Prajapati, the Creator. 

Symbol :Ox-cart, Cariot, Temple, Banyan Tree 

Animal symbol :Male Serpent 

Rohana Shakti:fosters power of growth and creation and creative development all 
levels, bestowing fertility. 


Chariot 


‘Rohini’ is the wife of Chandra who is said to have been fond of fine dress, cosmetics and 
décor and was the most beloved of Chandra or Moon. Those born in the star Rohini are 
agriculturists, experts, well-behaved, handsome, good speakers and poets. Rohini 
Nakshatra evokes some degree of jealousy because others may resent that a person gains 
such abundance. It can increase desire. But these are only side effects to its great prosperity. 


Rohini is ruled by Prajapati, the Creator. Of the 27 daughters, Rohini was the Moon's 
favorite wife.This is the fourth nakshatra of the zodiac, ruled by the planet Moon. It 
spreads from 10°-0' in Vrishabha to 23°-20' in Vrishabha.Eyes of the people born in this 
nakshatra are especially attractive.The word is derived from "Rohan" which means 'to rise’ 
or 'to bring into existence’. The other name of Rohini is Suravi - the celestial cow. 


Rohini is a bright little star in Vrsa — Prthvi Rasi, Raja Guna — the earthly desire or 
Kamana. Kamana rises from Kama and this being in Prthvi Rasi shows tendency towards 
material enjoyments, in extreme cases it shows lust or passions. Kama is an attribute of 
Kamini (woman). In mythology, Rohini is the most favourite star of Candra personified. 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 109 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


Rohini implies both Arohana (ascending) and Abarohana (descending). They are the 
attributes of mind, astrologically, Candra. 


Devata Brahma — the creator, often referred to as Prajapati — lord of all creatures. Agni 
(fire or energy) is the instrument of Brahma. It is at the root of Bak (speech) and is related 
to Saraswati (Goddess of Knowledge). The colour of Agni is red. So Rohini refers to red, 
blood or saffron colour. Gandha is the Guna of Prthvi therefore, in Rohini it is perfume, 
fragrant. 


The other name of Rohini is Suravi — the celestial cow; it has ability to give whatever is 
wanted from it. 


Rohini resembles Saraswati. In mythology, Brahma being temporarily sensual chased 
Saraswati and the latter took the form of a deer and ran to avoid indecency. The story aims 
to say that Rohini has tendency towards sensuality. 


A person born in this Nakshatra is efficient in religious activities, earns his livelihood 
through agricultural occupation, is endowed with beauty, is a master-conversationalist, a 
genius and efficient in arts. They are extremely materialistic and frown on those who don't 
measure up to their taste and high culture. 


One who is born under this star will have to control his/her stubborn nature if they want to 
work in groups or be in professions that require dealing with people. They can be extremely 
critical of others, looking down at their seeming low class. 


Females born in this nakshatra tend to display whatever riches they have.They are also 
short tempered and invite troubles. They possess inherent aptitude for any work entrusted 
to them.. 


Males born in this nakshatra have very attractive eyes with a special magnetic touch. He 
can attain great success in his life provided a little restraint is kept in the freedom of his 
mind. Those born under this nakshatra are well learned, influential, travel minded, artistic, 
business like, spiritual and of changing affections. 


Ascendant in Rohini: Brilliant, attractive, magnetic eyes, charismatic leader, wealthy, 
political power, popular, virile, romantic, artistic, sex-symbol, sensual nature, indulgent, 
sexual addiction. 


Moon in Rohini: Loverly appearance, balanced mind, gifts in music, dance and drama, 
successful career, affects the public, success in politics, fame, wealth, good health, well- 
developed muscles. The moon in Rohini indicates a person who is passionate, sexually 
seductive, elegant, attractive and charismatic. They love children, art, music and luxury, 
and the fine things of life, but can be snobbish, pampered, materialistic and critical of those 
whom they consider not up to their own standards. 


Sun in Rohini: beautiful, seductive, sensual, artistic nature, strong emotions, poetic, musical 
gifts, robust nature, well-liked, many friends. 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 110 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


Career interests: Politicians, authority positions, musicians, artists, actors, dancers, 
agriculture, real estate, restaurant and hotel business, fashion designers, models. 


Health issues: colds and coughs, irregular menses, apoplexy, obesity, poor diet, sore throat, 
veneral disease. 


Shadowy side of Rohini: indulgence and materialism, to win a kingdom at the loss of his 
own sould, obstinacy and bull-headed nature, short nature and critical nature, jealousy and 
possessiveness; the divinity of man loses its prestine memory and becomes immersed in 
worldly gratification. 


e Nakshatras- MRIGASHIRA (Head of a Deer) THE SEARCHING STAR 


o Western star name: )A, » Orionis (Lamda Orionis) 

o Lord: Mangala (Mars) 

o Symbol: Deer's head Deity: Soma, Chandra, the Moon god 

o Indian zodiac: 23° 20' Vrishabha - 6° 40' Mithuna ; Western zodiac: 19°20' 
Gemini - 2°40' Cancer 


Deity:Soma, the Moon God. 

Symbol: Antelope’s Head 

Animal symbol: Female serpent 

Prinana shakti:the power of giving fulfilment 


Deer Head 


Mrigashirsha, a mridue (soft and tender) nakshatra is ruled by Soma, the God of the Moon 
or the immortal nectar. This is the fifth nakshatra of the zodiac, spanning from 23°-20' in 
Vrishabha to 6°-40' in Mithuna.The word 'Mriga' represents forests, gardens, a search, a 
seeking to find, to roam about in forests and a hunter, to seek to blaze the trail, a guide and 
preceptor. Mrigashirsha is partly in Vrishabha and partly in Mithuna. 


In Vrshaba it is related to material or worldly things. It represents the ideas of tracing out, 
a track, road, journey, etc. It will show more inclination towards physical beauty and for 
dress. In Mithuna it is related to attribute Baiyu (air). The ideas in it are seeking for 
beauty, pleasures, motherly feelings, etc 


The word 'Mriga' represents forests, gardens, a search, a seeking to find, to roam about in 
forests and a hunter, to seek to blaze the trail, a guide and preceptor. An erotic affair, 
beauty of the countenance with particular emphasis on the radiant lustre of the face, 
because of the Moon. To seek is the primary characteristic of the star, to discover hidden 
treasures after the churning of the Sea, the 'Samudra Manthan' of the Hindu Mythology, 
the mother, motherly conduct that is to say maternal instincts, self-sacrifice without hope of 
requital, etc. Mrgasira (Mrga — deer to search for; Sira — the head) means searching 
mind, research, etc. Mrgasira represents hunt, pursue, investigate, examine, etc. No wonder 
that Mrgasira may denote greatest intellect, researchers, poets or beautiful looking persons. 


Chandra is the lord of the mind, so all mental attitude, good or bad, sympathies and 
antipathies, patience and impatience, the fidgetiness and placidity, imagination, the gift of 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 111 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


poetry, purity, sweetness and light, physical and mental aspects, all these come within this 
star and when things of sweetness and light of physic as also of the mind, both derivatives 
from the moon, the horoscope of Rabindra Nath comes to mind. His Janma lagna was Mina 
with Chandra there and Vrhaspati was in Karkata rasi. Because of this yoga Rabindra 
Nath had something like physical translucence which was object of admiration all the world 
over, wherever people met. Also, at the same time his poetry enthralled the whole world. 


It conveys the ideas of searching for beautiful faces, visit or request a girl in marriage. 
People born in this nakshatra have a strong body and moderate complexion. 


They are sincere in their behavior towards others and expect that others should also behave 
in the same way. They have a good grasping power, can quickly learn new things and have a 
creative nature. 


The moon in Mrigashirsha indicates a person who is restless and nervous, and constantly 
searching or looking for something. They are gentle, tender and peaceful, sensual and 
romantic, with motherly instincts. They are always curious and so are good travellers, 
investigators, researchers and collectors and they make good public speakers and 
communicators. 


A person born in this Nakshatra is a sharp shooter, loved by the king and follows virtuous 
path.They always have financial and personal difficulties. Females born in this nakshatra 
like to keep themselves busy in some way after the marriage. Vast learning, likes research, 
high position, noble views of life, mystical are some of the traits exhibited by those born 
under Mrigashirsa nakshatra. 


Ascendnt in Mrighasira: Attractive, seductive nature, mystical, seeker of truth, face of a 
deer, enthusiastic, talkative, good speech, daring, active mind, mental vacillation, love of 
travel. 


Moon in Mrigashira: Intelligent, writing skills, political nature, wealth, sensual, beautiful, 
timid, trouble with business partnership. 


The moon in Mrigashirsha indicates a person who is restless and nervous, and constantly 
searching or looking for something. They are gentle, tender and peaceful, sensual and 
romantic, with motherly instincts. They are always curious and so are good travellers, 
investigators, researchers and collectors and they make good public speakers and 
communicators. 


Sun in Mrigashira: Adventurous, courageous, architect, competitive, leadership, authority 
figure, poetic, writing skill, jack of all trades, creative, indulgent nature, laziness. 


Career interests: writer, poets, astrologers, mystics, researchers, teachers, engineers, 
gemologists, acting profession, music, real estate, sales, travel agents. The first half of 
Mrigashira falls in Taurus producing beautiful, crative and intellingent children, bringing 
in material affluence. The second half resides in Gemini manifesting writing, public 
speaking and persuasive speech with an inclination to curiosity, intelligence and research. 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 112 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


Health issues: vocal chords, sore throats, consumption, veneral disease, sciatica. 


Shadowy side: Indulgence in pleasure, sensory attachments, strong earthy needs, craving 
for sensation, fickle nature in the Gemini half of the Nakshatra. 


e Nakshatras-ARDRA (Moist One)THE STAR OF OPPRESSION 


Western star name: Betelgeuse (Alpha Orionis) 

Lord: Rahu (North lunar node) 

Symbol: Teardrop, diamond, a human head Deity : Rudra, the storm god 
Indian zodiac: 6° 40' - 20° Mithuna ; Western zodiac: 2° 40' - 16° Cancer 


oO 0 0 


Deity : Rudra, the lord of storms 

Symbols : A human head, tear drop 

Animal symbol: a female dog 

Yatna shakti: power to making gains in life through efforts 


Head 


Ardra is ruled by Rudra, the fierce form of Lord Shiva who represents thunder. This is the 
sixth nakshatra of the zodiac, having a spread from 6°-40' to 20°-00' in Mithuna or Gemini 
and is ruled by the node Rahu. Ardra means wet or surcharged with water, that is fat. 
When the Sun enters Ardra the earth is said to be starting its menstrual course that is 
"Ambobachi” Ardra is called a tikshna Nakshatra with a gift from Brahma of 
“undefeatable power”. Rudra is the lord of wild animals and storms. Hence knowledge 
and power becomes a double-edge sword unsed for destruction. 


Arudra means wet or surcharged with water, that is fat. Because the earth is running her 
menstrual course there are teardrops falling one after another. From Rudra comes all 
suffering, persecutions and oppressions, anger, ferocity of countenance or hideousness of 
noise. Rudra is another name of Shiva, the "five-faced" [Panchaanana]. In knowledge, 
asceticism, renunciation, as also in enjoyment, he is the supreme consummation of all 
desires. He is the blue-throated one, the wielder of the most tremendous powers, what could 
not be attempted, far less achieved by other Gods, when the churned Ocean at the time of 
‘Samudra Manthan' exhaled poison Siva achieved quite simply by holding the poison in his 
throat [turning it blue]. On one side he is the symbol of the most perfect placidity and 
serenity, on the other hand he is the symbol of all that is terrible. He holds the great serpent 
on his head and on his forehead crescent Moon with his sweet-soft light. He is at the same 
time the most peaceful and also the most terrible. And in all these are to be traced the 
intrinsic characteristics of Arudra. On the surface of it Arudra stands for suffering, 
hardness, cruelty, murder, prison, theft, adultery, etc. The root characteristic is oppression 
- in order to purify. 


Those born in the Ardra star are soft, stable minded, strong, earning by sacrifice, afflicted 
by sickness, fear and angry. They are bereft of money and corns. Ardra born people can 
behave very cooly during the times of extreme hardship and plan their actions accordingly 
and they get employed in professions that are related with travel and foreign places. 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 113 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


One born under this nakshatra is thrifty, insincere , ungrateful and sinful and at times they 
will spend foolishly.They are flexible and open to change, and often make attempts to 
change their negative traits. Those born under this nakshatra will suffer from heart trouble, 
paralysis, and stress related ailments.. 


Ascendant in Ardra: Intelligent, brilliant mind, writing and communication skills, craft 
speech, good dexterity, ungrateful, deceitful. 


The Moon in Ardra: Thirst for knowledge, curious mind, difficult marital karma, delays in 
marriage, great communicator, orator, ungrateful, mischievous, anti-social. 


The moon in Ardra indicates a person with sadness and destructive impulses, but also who 
is skilled at creating new things out of destruction and renovating old things. They are cold, 
calculating, stubborn and controlling, with a violent temperament, but can also be strong, 
stable and sympathetic personalities 


They are religiousness, of responsible positions, artistic, brave, prone to litigations, have 
laziness, is a leader and passionate 


The Sun in Ardra:Social skills, politically minded, mental instability, fickle, critical, 
dishonest, cunning, fierce activity, restless mind. 


Career interests: Writers, teachers, hospice work, social services, sales, public relations, 
politics, humanitarian projects, athletes, butchers, drug sellers, helping professions of 
alleviating pain and suffering to others, 


-Health issues:Nervous system disorders, skin sensitivity, allergies, mental disordrs, lung 
problems. 


Shadowy side: Potential abuse of power, lusting after material attainments, causing 
torment and pain to others, critical and complaining attitude, haughty and ungrateful, 
hunting and animal killing. 


e Nakshatras-PUNARVASU(Return of the Light) THE STAR OF RENEWAL 


o ©Western star name: Castor and Pollux (Beta Geminorum) 

o Lord: Guru (Jupiter) 

o Symbol : Bow and quiver Deity : Aditi, mother of the gods 

o Indian zodiac: 20° Mithuna - 3°20' Karka ; Western zodiac 16° - 29°20' 
Cancer 


Deity: Aditi :the Great Mother Goddess 

Symbol: Bow and quiver of arrows. 

Animal symbol: Female cat 

Vasutva prapana shakti: power and ability to gain wealth or substance 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 114 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


Bow 


Punarvasu is ruled by Aditi, the Great Mother Goddess.This is the seventh nakshatra of the 
zodiac, spanning from 20°-00' in Mithuna (Taurus) to 3°-20' in Karaka(Cancer).The word 
Punarvasu is derived from Puna+Vasu, which means return, renewal, restoration or 
repetition. Punarvasu Nakshatra brings about the return of energy and vitality. It causes 
our creative growths and inspirations to be renewed. 


It denotes the ideas of abode, residence, back to home, sojourn, recurrence, commencement, 
to shine or grow bright again, to enter into life again, renewal of riches, etc. 


The word Punarvasu is derived from Puna+Vasu, which means return, renewal, restoration 
or repetition. The 12 Adityas were born of Kasyapa in the womb of Aditi. The 12 Vasus are 
Indra. Vishnu, Vaga, Twasta, Barun, Aryama, Pusa, Mitra, Agni, Parjyanya, Vivaswan and 
Dinakar. The mother Aditi of whom the Gods are born is the repository of everything 
good—truth, generosity, magnanimity, purity, aristocracy, beauty and renownt. It follows 
that this star is the cause for these virtues. To start afresh after having once broken off, to 
start a new life, to come back from a distant land—all these are signified by Punarvasu. It 
stands for freedom from restriction and limitation, and boundless space. The Gods, the 
children of Aditi, are basically and essentially are different from children of Diti, who are 
demons. The demons never had a taste of divine nectar and therefore miss the knowledge of 
fundamentals, fundamentals of creation and mystery. They were engrossed with or deeply 
emerged in enjoyment of the externals, the materialistic aspect of the universe. Gold and sex 
were the two immediate pursuits, which made them extroverts. The Gods, however, could 
rip into the deeper texture of things, they had tasted the divine nectar and, become partners 
in supreme divine bliss and Punarvasu represents all these. 


Punah means repeat, again and again; Basanti means habitation. Punarbasati, therefore, 
means remaking or remodelling of dwellings, Punarbasati or Punarvasu are same in 
meaning. It denotes the ideas of abode, residence, back to home, sojourn, recurrence, 
commencement, to shine or grow bright again, to enter into life again, renewal of riches, etc. 


A person born in this Nakshatra has numerous friends, is a practitioner of sacred texts and 
scriptures, possesses gems, jewels and ornaments etc. and they have the spirit to rise from 
the ashes. These people have a good height and an oval face. They tend to be obese in their 
later age. 


Females born in this nakshatra are calm but tend to get into arguments to exhibit their 
intelligence. This may give rise to disputes with other family members. She will be leading a 
comfortable life. She cannot enjoy good health. 


Males born in this nakshatra can shine and get success in almost all the subjects except in 
partnership businesses or deals. He does not like to cause trouble to others, on the other 
hand he tries to help the needy.. 


Those born in this nakshatra are good natured, have trials in life, are cultered, helping 
nature, vanity minded, failure and success come often. 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 115 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


Ascendant in Punarvasu: Charitable, thoughtful, intelligent, poetic, passionate, thinker, 
writer, fun loving, freedom loving, moves a lot, several mates, needs a spiritual mate, acting 
skill, success in business. 


The Moon in Punarvasu: Happy, friendly, easily concerned, good speech, self-controlled, 
religiously inclined, leads a simple life, trouble in marriage, writing skill, self-publishing, 
fickle nature, indecisive. 


The moon on Purnarvasu indicates a person with strong inner resources and ability to 
bounce back from difficulties, and who is philosophical, religious, spiritual, likeable, 
charming and forgiving. They are idealistic, honest and truthful to the core and value 
family and the home. 


The Snn in Punarvasu: Great intellectual prowess, gifts in the communication fields, 
emotionally overwhelmed, good social status. 


Career interests: acting, drama, entertainment, politics, writers, publishers, spiritual 
teachers, mystics. 


Health issues: Sensitive nervous system, pain, swelling in the ears, weak liver, jaundice, lung 
problems. 


e Nakshatras- PUSHYA (Nourishing) THE FLOURISHING STAR 
o Western star name: y, 6 and 6 Cancri (Delta Cancri) 
o Lord: Shani (Saturn) 
o Symbol : Cow's udder, lotus, arrow and circle Deity : Brihaspati, priest of 
the gods 
o Indian zodiac: 3°20' -16°40' Karka ; Western zodiac 29°20' Cancer - 12°40' 
Leo 


Deity:Brihaspati, lord of sacred speech/ the priest to the Gods 
Symbols: Flower, a circle, an arrow, the udder of a cow 

Animal symbol: male sheep, ram 

Bramavarchasa shakti: power and ability to create spiritual energy 


Flower 


Pushya is derived from Pushti which means nourishment. Pushya is ruled by Brihaspati, the 
God of Divine wisdom. This is the eighth nakshatra in the zodiac, spanning from 3°-20' to 
16°-40' in Karaka. The word Pushya means to strengthen, to fortify. The word 
etymologically means "to nourish" and that again means to preserve, to protect, replenish, 
multiply and strengthen. 


Vrhaspati is described as the great teacher of all creation from amoebae to the Gods and is 
the source of all knowledge and wisdom. The mystery of creation is no mystery to him. He is 
the eloquent preceptor, the wise minister, pontifex, head of all religious ceremonies. He 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 116 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


takes pleasure in all worshipful ritual. And that is why the Pushya is composed of these 
virtues. It has been described as blossoming and flourishing. It is the mouth of Orien. 


Symbol — Udder of a cow. Devataa — Brhaspati. Pushya is derived from Pushti which 
means nourishment. The nourishment may be related to either physical fitness or material 
wealth or knowledge. In Pushya the ideas of Brhaspati are linked up. Brhaspati stands for 
wisdom — the wisdom that nourishes the mind, flourishes it and makes it prosperous. 
Brhaspati is a preceptor, a minister, a Guru — guide and a Purohit (priest; Pura — in- 
ternal, Antahpura; hita — benefit) a person who benefits the soul and mind. Brhaspati is 
also called Baacaspati (Baacas — speech; pati — lord) the lord of speech 


Pushya Nakshatra increases our good karma and good efforts. The value of this Nakshatra 
for religious and spiritual practices is emphasized. 


The person born under this Nakshatra has a healthy body, obeys his parents, religious, 
humble, fortunate and possesses wealth and vehicles etc.These people respect laws and 
believe that nobody should be above the law. 


These people are likely to suffer from lack of hormones that help in body growth and 
digestion, skin troubles, cough and cold and asthma. Males born in this sign are likely to be 
tall but thin. Females born in this sign are short in stature with an oval face. 


Ascendant in Pushya:Huamnitarian and thoughtful nature, bold, eloquent in speech, 
religious, intuitive knowledge, independent, good status, musical gifts, creative nature. 


Moon in Pushya: Learned, composed mind, virtuous, liked by all people, wealthy, political 
interest, problems with family of origin. 


The moon in Pushya indicates a person who is religious, conventional, helping, selfless, 
caring, intelligent and spiritual. They are usually self-sufficient and wealthy, but give 
service to others and the under privileged. However, they can be arrogant and superior 
towards those who do not share their high ideals. 


Sun in Pushya: Good speech, authority figure, wealthy, successful, thrifty, sensitive, artistic 
nature, creativity in arts, need for security. 


Career interests: Politics, government positions, geologists, acquatic biologist, military, 
police, musicians, artists. 


Health issues: skin problems, eczema, stomach, ulcers, nausea, breast cancer, tuberculosis, 
chest problems. 


Shadowy side:Stubborn, selfish nature, arrogance, pride and jealousy, deflated by criticism, 
doubting their own worth due to others opinion,. 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 117 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


e Nakshatras- ASHLESHA(The Embracer)THE CLINGING STAR 


o Western star name: 6, €, n, p, and o Hydrae (Alpha Cancri) 

Lord: Budh (Mercury) 

Symbol: Serpent Deity : Sarpas or Nagas,, deified snakes 

Indian zodiac: 16°40' - 30° Karka ; Western zodiac 12°40' - 26° Leo 


[e) 
[e) 
[e) 


Deity: Naga, the Serpent King 

Symbol:Coiled serpent 

Animal symbol:Male cat 

Visasleshana shakti:The serpent energy with divine wisdom; the power and 
capability to inflict with poisonous venom, to paralyze enemies with its 
Serpent hyphotic gaze. 


Aslesha is ruled by the serpent God. This is the ninth nakshatra of the zodiac, spanning 
from 16°-40' to 30°-00' in Karaka house. It is the birth star of Ketu.The force of Aslesha can 
be understood by its name Naga. Aslesha Nakshatra can be helpful if we have enemies but it 
can serve to give a person an inimical temperament as well. It all depends upon how the 
energy of this Nakshatra is used 


Aslesha’s Symbol — Coiled snake. Devataa — Ahi (snake). The force of Aslesha can be 
understood by its name Naga. Naga and Ahi are same. In Naga, 'ga' stands for gati or 
gamana or go in English. 'a-ga' means that which has no go. 'Na-a-ga' or Naga means to say 
that it can go where one cannot go. Indeed, snakes possess such power. The creature can 
remain coiled in such small holes or cracks where it seems impossible for the creature to go. 
Mind (Candra is the symbolical expression of mind and the ruling Graha of Karkata) has 
similar capabilities. It has power to secretly travel or penetrate into a place where 
ordinarily it is impossible to go. Such power is depicted by the name Chandra-Ketu — 
another name of Siva — the lord of wisdom. Candra-Ketu is, therefore, represented by the 
symbol of Siva in yoga with Candra (as Candra or moon appears in Krshnaachaturdashii, 
XIV phase in the period of New Moon) on his forehead and a snake coiling round his neck. 
The symbolical idea of such Candra means to say that total extinction of mind is not 
possible, a part of the mind and the senses remain to function 'yoga' (union or communion) 
while the rest is under control or in Samadhi. 


A person born in 'Ashlesha Nakshatra’ is a born wanderer i.e. travels unnecessarily, 
wicked, causes anguish to others, spends his wealth for evil purposes, and is a 
sensualist. Their disease resistant capacity is limited. They tend to put on weight in the 
middle age. 


They are actively associated with organisation or persons or services where some 
underhand dealings are undertaken. They also make successful politicians. These people 
can make some of the best statesmen, given a favorable combination of planets like Jupiter, 
Sun and Mars.They have excellent communication skills and many of them are good 
orators. 


Females born in this nakshatra know how to win their opponents through tact.They are 
good for administrative works. Males born in this sign, are reluctant to come out with their 
views openly. 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 118 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


Ascendant in Ashlesha:Sensual, seductive nature, cruel, ungrateful, need to develop tact, 
needs time alone, service-oriented, many enemies, issues of deception and intrigue. 


The Moon in Ashlesha: Leadership, political success, mystical nature, entertainer, 
astrological gifts, intuitive, writing and speaking gifts, poetic nature, learned, research and 
organizational skills, need to watch diet, insincere, ungrateful, sinful. 


The moon in Ashlesha indicates a person is penetrating, intense, hypnotic, wise, profound 
and secretive. They are ambitious and full of conviction and are unable to take criticism or 
humiliation. They can also be crafty, devious, controlling and vengeful 


Those born in the Nakshatra of Aslesh are moody, short tempered , have harsh speech, is 
wealthy, religious and slow in their deeds 


The Sun in Ashlesha: Business oriented, greedy, stubborn nature, opinionated, mystic, 
intuitive, good communication skills, erratic career, unpredictable, deceptive, evasive. 


Career interests: Politicians, lawyers, writers, teachers, astrologers, mystics, snake 
charmers, zoo keepers, prostitutes, pimps. 


Health issues: Food poisoning, obesity, poor diet, veneral disease, arthritis, nervous 
disorders. 


Shadowy side: Mental instability, worry, fear and melancholic mind. Issues with temper 
and anger. A good Nakshatra for separation, filing divorce and ending a business 
partnership. Cannot tolerate personal humiliation. A sensitive nervous system, psychic 
vulnerability and self-deception. Crafty, elusive and lie when it serves their need. Pain is 
inevitable and have difficulty in controlling diet. Have difficulty in facing life realistically. 


e Nakshatras- MAGHA (The Great One)THE GLORIOUS ONE 
o Western star name:Regulus (Alpha Leonis) 

Lord: Ketu (south lunar node) 

Symbol : Royal Throne 

Indian zodiac: 0° - 13°20' Simha 

Western zodiac 26° Leo - 9°20' Virgo 


oO 0 0 


Deities: Pitris, representing ancestral pride & protectors of humanity 
Symbol: palanquin 

Animal symbol:Male rat 

Tyage kshepani shakti: the power to leave the body and the capability to 
attain spiritual liberation. 


Palanquin 


Magha is ruled by the Ancestors.This is 10th nakshatra of the zodiac, ruled by the node 
Ketu and spanning from 00°-00' to 13°-20' in the sign Leo, ruled by Sun. Magha is derived 
from Maghaban. Magha is the causes of brightness and light.Magha stands for noble 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 119 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


impulses and incentives, the gift of Magha must always be a noble one. It shows that we are 
coming to the end of a cycle. 


Magha is ruled by the Ancestors.This is 10th nakshatra of the zodiac, ruled by the node 
Ketu and spanning from 00°-00' to 13°-20' in the sign Leo, ruled by Sun. Magha is derived 
from Maghaban. Magha is the causes of brightness and light.Magha stands for noble 
impulses and incentives, the gift of Magha must always be a noble one. It shows that we are 
coming to the end of a cycle.Its condition is prior to that of Bharani which indicates the 
movement of the soul away from the body. 


Magha has been described as glorious one. Anthroporphically it is the nose of Kalpurush. 
Maghaa is derived from Maghaban (cloud; Megha; Devataa — Indra). The cloud presents a 
grave and fearful look. It is the store-house of electricity, the great energy of fires, the 
terrible thunders are hidden in it. Its sudden lightning anger wherever falls there is seldom 
any protection against it. It roars and shakes the very bones. But it has in it the most lovable 
and nourishing properties of rains. It sheds rains freely for the benefit of the earth and 
everyone on the earth. It is a selfless gift — it does not want anything in return. So, Maghaa 
Stands for suva-karma — a good action particularly for selfless gift for the welfare of 
others. 


Devataa Indra is the lord of human senses (Indriyas) the medium between self and the world 
beyond self. The energy or the fire of Maghaa by representation in a living form effects desire. 
Desire is the creative effort of mind and that desire is at the bottom of all other functions. It is 
Vaasanaa — the first impulse that is in the living substance or living soul. 


A person born in this Nakshatra is strong-hearted, respects his father, is a learned man, 
intelligent and is a winner. Magha born will respect the elders and their experience. They 
are straight forward, do not like to harm others and expect that others should not harm 
them in any way. 


These people are often failures if they undertake independent business, as reckless profit 
making is not in their blood. A person born in this Nakshatra will respect others and in turn 
expect respect from them. 


Ascendant in Magha: Devoted to God and forefathers, has servants, receives praise, repect, 
susceptible to allurement of sex, deep-rooted dislike for certain people. 


The Moon in Magha: Honoured and recognised by learned people, worship of gods and 
ancestors, involved in some mystical work, enterprising, enjoys life, charitable, physically 
strong, hot tempered. 


The moon in Magha indicates a person who is noble, eminent, ambitious and generous, with 
leadership qualities, strong and traditional values and a drive for power and wealth. They 
are amiable and have a positive outlook on life. They are loyal and proud of their family 
and ancestors, but can also be elitist and arrogant 


Males born in this nakshatra get a good, trustworthy wife. Females born in this nakshatra 
are religious minded and most devoted to their husbands and they will suffer from uterine 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 120 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


problems. They have the capacity to command, are wealthy, devoted, social workers and 
have moral standard. 


The sun in Magha: Leadership, authority positions, entertainer, musical, seeks attention, 
kingly, proud nature, adventurous spirit, love of travel, connected to a spiritual lineage. 


Career interests: Politicians, lawyers, heads of corporations, actors, musicians, 
archaeologists, historians, hypertension, self-employed, managers. 


Health issues:heart problems, stomach, ulcers, skin problems around mou. 


Shadowy side: Arrogance, racial superiority, prejudice and identification with class status. 
As they are attached to material prosperity, they can win the kingdom but lose their souls. 
Chronic discontent on their failure to attain their lofty ideals of success. Failure to hit the 
mark set up for their standards of perfection. Inclined to cruel and fierce activities. 
Problems faced due to sexual allurements Both Bill Clinton and Michael Jackson have their 
Sun in Magha). 


e Nakshatras- PURVAPHALGUNI (Former Reddish One) STAR OF FORTUNE 
o Western star name: 6 and 8 Leonis (Delta Leonis) 
o Lord: Shukra (Venus) 
o Symbol: Front legs of bed, hammock, fig tree Deity : Bhaga, god of marital 
bliss and prosperity 
o Indian zodiac: 13°20' - 26°40' Simha ; Western zodiac 9°20' - 22°40' Virgo 


Deities: Bhaga, the God of Good Fortune, Shiva Lingam 
Symbols: Two front legs of a bed; swinging hammock; couch 
Animal symbol: Female rat 

Prajanana Shakti: the power of creative procreation. 


Front legs of 
bed 


Purvaphalguni in the Vedic order is ruled by Aryaman, the God of contracts and 

unions. This is the 11th nakshatra of the zodiac, ruled by the planet of arts and beauty, 
Venus. It is also called the Bhagadaivata Star. It is the symbol of the call for creation, it 
announces creation and development. Porvaphalguni brings about union and procreation 
on all levels. This nakshatra implies by the bed or hammock, it is a time of rest and 
relaxation 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 121 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


Devataa Bhaga — the dispenser of pains and pleasure is Bhaagya. It bestows good fortune, 
welfare. Fulfilment of consequences, attainment of rewards, rejection of evil, correction, 
cleansing, reformation, etc. 


It is also symbolised by a symbol of Sivalingam — the organ of creation to indicate sexual 
passion, love affection amorous pleasures and at the same time it means control or 
procreations at the very root of it and thus to enjoy the world without being a slave of 
passions and pleasures. 


Purvaphalguni is the symbol of good fortune and luck. It is the birth star of Vrhaspati.A 
person born in this Nakshatra is very brave, fosters many people, clever but cunning, lusty 
and rough.They will have a long face and are generally handsome. They do not like 
underhand dealings and given a chance, would like to prevent others form indulging in 
those activities. Their independent nature often makes them difficult to enjoy the confidence 
of their superiors. 


These people eat a lot and tend to suffer from headache, sinus or high blood pressure. A 
person born in this Nakshatra tends to be scrupulously honest and cannot stand back 
quietly and watch any illegal activity. 


The Ascendant in Purva Phalguni: Gifts in music, dance, drama, attractive, sensual nature, 
charismatic, creative intelligence, learned, good healthvital nature, leadership, government 
positions. 


The Moon in Purva Phalguni: Creative intelligence, love of drama, leadership skills, self- 
employed, love of travel, a wanderer, sweet speech, generosity, beauty, mystical nature, 
teaching skill. 


The moon in Purva Phalguni indicates someone who is carefree, happy-go-lucky, attractive, 
sensual, affectionate, sociable, kind, generous and loyal. They are good communicators and 
influencers of others. They are artistic and relaxed in their approach, but can also be lazy 
and vain. They need to be in relationships and family life is important to them. 


The sun in Purva Phalguni: Gifted in the performing arts, vanity, sense of humour, 
playfulness, regal quality, self-confidence, recognition through connection with women, a 
showman, gifts in teaching and sales, athletic nature.. 


Career interests: Actors, musicians, models, business managers, retail sales, radio, 
television, photography, cosmetics, jewelry, wedding planners, government service, 
politicians, teachers, professors, sex and marital therapists. 


Health issues: skin problems, lips, addiction issues, heart trouble, blood circulation, veneral 
disease, accidents with fire. 


Shadowy side: Vanity, narcissism and indulgence. Craving for stimulation and sexual 
excitements, resulting in a promiscuous nature with an addictive personality. Madonna has 
both her Ascendant and Moon in this lunar mansion. 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 122 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


e Nakshatras- UTTRAPHALGUNI (Latter Reddish One) THA STAR OF 
PATRONAGE 

Western star name: Denebola (Beta Leonis) 

Lord: Surya (Sun) 

Symbol: Four legs of bed, hammock 

Indian zodiac: 26°40' Simha- 10° Kanya 

Western zodiac 22°40' Virgo - 6° Libra 


00000 


Deity: Aryaman, God of Patronage, Son of Aditi— Aryaman governs 
marriage contracts and protects family inheritance 

Symbol: Back legs of a bed 

Animal symbol: Bull 


Back Legs of a Chyani Shakti: Power of attaining prosperity through marriage or union 


bed 


This is the 12th nakshatra of the zodiac ruled by Sun. This nakshatra spans from 26°-40' in 
Leo to 10°-00' in Kanya. The lords are Ravi and Budha, symbol is a bed. Uttaraphalguni 
indicates both the need for union and for organizing the resources gained through it. 


Aryamaa. Aryaman means devotee of Surya. Aryaman refers to a person who is 
approached for any help; a patron. In a sense a husband is an Aryaman to his Wife; the 
financier is an Aryaman to a merchant who seeks finance; a physician is an Aryaman to a 
patient. 


A person born in this Nakshatra is charitable, kind hearted, possesses patience, and 
achieves fame.They are straight forward and do not like to be taken for granted by others. 


Those born under this nahshatra have a strong physique, good eyesight and are generally 
very ambitious. The efforts undertaken by these people have a certain aura of royal 
authority around them. They will enjoy a satisfactory married life and they are happy with 
their family. 


Uttarphalguni particularly has special reference to patronage, favour, granting reliefs, 
person approached for monetary help or relief in sickness. A person born in this Nakshatra 
will especially be successful in careers that are associated with new beginnings like 
construction industry, hospitality industry, event planning, publicity management, etc. 


Ascendant in Uttara Phalguni: Attractive, wealthy, several mates, generous, proud, sensual 
nature, beautiful, intelligent, talent in business, skilled with hands, humanitarian, mystical 
powers, intuitive. 


Moon in Uttara Phalguni: Well-liked, successful, stable, respected much comfort and 
luxury, good intelligence, inventive mind, happy, friendly nature, tactful, independent, 
clean-hearted. 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 123 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


The moon in Uttar Phalguni indicates a person who is helpful, kind, friendly, caring, sincere 
and courageous. They are stable, fixed and focused in their approach to life. 


They need relationships and family unity, and love humanity in general. However, they can 
also be dependent in relationships, stubborn and controlling. 


The Sun in Uttara Phalguni: Humanitarian concern, leadership, fond of reading and 
writing, fonfident, strong pride, arrogance successful retirement, love of the creative art. 


Career interests: Social worker, philantrophists, writers, actors, media personalities, 
healing arts, state health employees, astrologers, astronomers, mathematicians, business 
minded people, sales. 


Health issues: Lips and mouth, sexual organs, hands and arms, skin sensitivities, digestive 
troubles. 


Shadowy side; Deep sense of loneliness is experienced if they are not involved in any 
meaningful relationship. Issues of co-dependency and over-giving, resentment and 
ingratitude. Danger in indulging in black magic and tantra. 


e Nakshatras- HASTA (The Hand) THE CLUTCHING HAND 
o Western star name: a, B, y, 6 and g Corvi (Delta Corvi) 
o Lord: Chandra (Moon) 
o Symbol: Hand or fist Deity : Saviti or Surya, the Sun god 
o Indian zodiac: 10° - 23°20' Kanya ; Western zodiac 6° - 19°20' Libra 


Deity; Savitar, the Sun God 

Symbol:The palm of the hand 

Animal symbol:Female Buffalo 

Hasta sthaniya agama shakti: ability to manifest what we are seeking and to 
place it in our hands. 


Hand 


Hasta is ruled by Savitar, the creative form of the Sun God. This is the 13th nakshatra of 
the zodiac, ruled by Moon. Hasta spans from 10°-0' to 23°-20' in Kanya.The symbol is a 
closed hand or fist. Hasta gives the ability to achieve our goals in a complete and immediate 
manner. A person born in this Nakshatra is famous, is religious minded, respects Brahmins 
and learned people and possesses wealth. They are tall and thin in physical appearance. 


Anthropomorphically it is the hand of Kalapurush. 


The idea of Kanya Rasi is purity in thought and action. Hastaa denotes particular power; 
power to rule or control others. Devata Ravi is the Creator or the Curer. Hasta has ideas of 
creation and a healing power. Devata Ravi is known by 12 names — (I) Aruna; (2) Aaditya; 
(3) Tapana; (4) Dibaakara; (5) Bhaaskara; (6) Vaanu: (7) Maartanda; (8) Mihira; (9) 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 124 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


Bivaakara; (10) Surya; (11) Sahasraamsu; (12) Ravi. The ideas of Ravi known by its 12 
names are tinged in the ideas of Hosts. It has power to remove the darkness of ignorance. 


The symbol of close fisted hand refers to a person with some definite purposes or promise to 
bring someone or something within his control. In adverse condition it refers to act of 
stealing or pickpocketting and the like 


They know how to win over the other party, hence these people can be good diplomats or 
are suitable for any profession.They do not have the formal education, but they can carry 
out the responsibilities assigned to them through their all round knowledge and efforts. 


A person born in this Nakshatra is a very creative person and work very well with their 
hands. Those who born under this nakshatra are good at organising and managing 
things.They also excel at jobs, which involve a lot of travelling. 


Ascendant in Hasta: Likeable, sociable, entertaining, attractive, sensitive, artistic, respected, 
eloquent in speech, fond of travel, thievish nature, serves in public, humanitarian. 


The Moon in Hasta:Creative, industrious in work, practical, sweet smile, attractve, wealth 
late in life, makes quick friendship, remains unattached, inclined towards intoxication, 
cunning, many ups and downs in life, moody nature. 


The moon in Hasta indicates a person who is skillful with their hands, good at 
craftsmanship and the arts, healers and massagers. They are clever, witty, entertaining and 
humorous, and are good speakers and communicators. Their early life may be subject to 
hardship and restraints and they like routine and security. They can also be grasping and 
possessive. 


The Sun in Hasta: Love of knowledge and writing, skilled with hands, attention to details, 
excellent memory and analytical ability, interest in astrology and the occult, gifts in music, 
dance and drama. 


Career interests: Painters, artists, craftsmen, scholars, teachers, writers, sales, 
communication, public relationss, hospitals and volunteer work, healers, travel industry, 
conference planners, astrologers, palm readers. 


Health issues: Sensitive nervous system, bowels, colon problems, dysentery, colds and 
allergies, skin irritations, hands. 


Shadowy side: Hardships, impediments and restrainments early in life, health issues due to 
sensitive nature and Virgo is a vulnerable sign to health issues. A critical and impatient 
nature results in stress problems, a merciless and thievish mind. 


e Nakshatras- CHITRA (Bright One) THE STAR OF WONDER & OPPORTUNITY 


o Western star name: Spica (Alpha Virginis) 

o Lord: Mangala (Mars) 

o Symbol: Bright jewel or pearl Deity : Tvashtar or Vishvakarma, the celestial 
architect 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 125 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


o Indian zodiac: 23°20' Kanya - 6°40' Tula ; Western zodiac 19°20' Libra - 
2°40' Scorpio 


Deity: Tvashtar or Viswakarma, the Celestial Architect of the Universe 
Symbol:Pearl or Bright Jewel 

Animal symbol:Female Tiger 

Punya cayani shakti: ability to accumulate merit in this life. 


Pearl 


Chitra is ruled by Twashtar, the Cosmic craftsman.This is the "star of opportunity". Chitra 
reflects the world of maya and delusions, which they are to over come.This is the 14th 
nakshatra of the zodiac, ruled by the fiery planet Mars. It spans from 26°-40' in Kanya to 6° 
-40' in Tula.The symbol is the gem on the serpent's crest .[t is anthropomorphically the 
forehead of Kalapurush 


In ancient time the star was known as the 'Star of Prosperity’. Chitra allows us to gain the 
fruit of our good karma that comes through righteousness. It has a highly spiritual energy 
and effect. 


Citra's Devataa Viswakarmaa (Creator of the Universe also known by Prajapati — lord of 
the creatures) is the supreme creator or producer. A small portion of the Nakshatra is in 
Kanyaa (a sign of intellect) and the rest is in Tula (a sign of beauty and trade). In Kanya, in 
relation to a person it gives the idea of one having knowledge or intellect in various subjects 
or a tactful person or an efficient surgeon. But in Tula, it gives an idea of an artist — in 
painting or in screen or an efficient perfumer. Kanyaa being an earthy sign the idea may 
denote one who is capable of good planning, an engineer. Viswakarmaa has special qualities 
of arranging things in order, things that are ready-made, fashioned either in the making of 
garments or in an engineering factory and thus it connotes the idea of collecting, gathering, 
piling up of various materials presenting beautiful appearance. It is conspicuous, excellent 
or distinguished. 


In mythology Viswakarmaa does building, architecture, aeroplanes, firearms, bridges, 
sculptor works etc., for the satisfaction of' Tvastaa (or Tusti — satisfaction). Born of the 
sister of Brhaspati he gave his daughter (merit) Samga (correct knowledge) in marriage 
with Surya (the supreme creator). Samga could not endure the forceful look of Surya so 
Viswakarmaa cut a portion of Surya and made Sudarsana Cakra for Vishnu, Trisul for 
Siva and Vallam for Kuvera, that is to say, all the things that are necessary for sustenance, 
wisdom and things to protect industries for money. 


A person born in this Nakshatra defeats his enemies gallantly, is an expert in politics and 
has extraordinary intelligence.They enjoy good health and always appear much younger 

than their actual age. If a Chitra born native has a powerful Neptune in his/her chart, the 
person will have dreams that can foretell the future. 


Ascendat in Chitra:Strong ego, engaged n variety of pursuits, wealthy, lives away from 
birth place, wears colourful clothes, jewelry, expressive nature, graceful, desire for spiritual 
liberation, honest. 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 126 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


The Moon in Chitra: Beautiful body, attractive eyes, artistic, strong sexual apetite, great 
lovers, recognized even in large crowd, trouble with father, benefits through mother, good 
astrologers, intuitive, prophetic. 


The moon in Chitra indicates someone with good opportunities in life, with charisma, 
charm, and glamor. They love bright colors, jewellery and beautiful things and are artistic. 
They are also spiritual and have great insight, and are good conversationalists and 
organizers. Many of them will pursue higher education and will retain a lifelong thirst for 
knowledge. 


The Sun in Chitra: Warrior nature, militant, cunning, harsh at times, interest in art, 
photography, music, strong need for recognition. 


Career interests: Interior design, architects, jewelers, lawyers, judges, priests, religious 
people, learned in Vedas, publications, radio, TV, film, armed forces, police, detective, 
research, teaching and intellectual pursuits, the visual arts, interior decoration, designing, 
landscaping etc 


Health issues: ulcers, stomach, ailments like kidney and bladder troubles, psychiatric and 
brain disorders, sunstroke, forehead, skin allergies, wounds from insects, etc. Women 
should be careful about uterine problems. 


Shadowy side: Srong sexual desires, if not harnessed, can make him develop a passionate 
and seductive persona. A smug, arrogant and self-indulgent nature can also develop. 
Tendency to give a reply on any matter without forethought and try to rectify one’s 
utterances when it is too late. Chitra also reflects the world of maya and delusory 
appearances, connected with the work of magicians and other masters of illusion. The word 
EGO stands for “Edging God Out” and ego and self-centredness could brng in a lot of 
problems to the natives of this asterism if not checked or curbed. 


e Nakshatras- SWATI (Sword or Independence)SELF GOING STAR 
o Western star name: Arcturus (Alpha Bootis) 
o Lord: Rahu (north lunar node) 
o Symbol: Shoot of plant, coral Deity : Vayu, the Wind god 
o Indian zodiac: 6°40' - 20° Tula ; Western zodiac 2°40' - 16° Scorpio 


Deities: Vayu, the god of wind, Saraswati 

Symbol: Coral 

Animal symbol:Male buffalo 

Pradhvamsa shakti:the power to scatter like the wind 


sprout blowing 
in the wind 


Swati is ruled by Vayu, the God of the Wind. This is the fifteenth nakshatra of the zodiac, 
having all its four quarters in Tula, spanning from 6°-40' to 20°-00'. This Nakshatra is 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 127 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


concerned with air, wind, breeze or knowledge of Akaash since Akaash is the abode of air. 
Swati Nakshatra can be destructive unless we learn how to use it to remove negativity. 


This Nakshatra is. therefore, concerned with air, wind, breeze or knowledge of Akaasa 
(space) since Akaasa is the abode of air. Literally, Pawana (pu + anena) means that which 
purifies or Vaaiyu (air). Vaaiyu comes from the root word vaa which means 'to move". It is 
itself one but in each body it manifests itself in ten different ways under ten different names 
of which the five chiefs are — Praana, Apaana, Samaana, Vyaana. Udaana. 


Praana is taken as the ‘life principle’ and the breathing is the manifestation of life. Praana 
Vaaiyu, is commonly the inhaling breath, and the Apaana is the exhaling breath. The 
function of Samana Vaaiyu is to select, break up and assimilate food or reject it. Vyaana 
functions distribution of what has been assimilated by Samaana. Udaana Vaaiyu concerns 
in voice function, singing, talking, etc. utilising the air inhaled by the Praana. 


Pawan and Teja or Vaaiyu and Agni are inseparable twins and are responsible for all 
creations. They function together. So, it has a great affinity for the Sun. It has in it the 
powers and tenacity of wind and attribute of purifying. The idea of the symbol of 
winnowing the paddy denotes purifying the paddy is same. It is related to a physician, it 
speaks for specialisation in the treatment of wind or in case of diseases in a human body, it 
is ‘gas’. 


A person born in this Nakshatra is endowed with tremendous beauty, flirts with many 
women, is jolly and receives wealth from the king. Females born in this sign and nakshatra 
walk as if they are thinking deep before taking every step and trying to balance their body 
before taking any further action.They do not like to do any injustice to others neither do 
they like any injustice being done to them. Swati people have an ability to "bend with the 
wind" in order to survive the forces of change which they may encounter. 


A person born under this star is good at buying and selling, his wealth and property come 
and go quite easily. They are broad-minded and attract people from diverse backgrounds. 


Many of those born under this nakshatra will be involved in religious or social work.Swati's 
primary motivation is artha or material prosperity. Rahu, the ruling planet, can create a 
strong desire for financial success and lust for life. They are cultered, learned, famous, 
submissive to ladies, passionate and wealthy. 


Ascendant in Swati: Kind, happy, humourous, religious, dresses simply, interest in 
psychology, medicine, political nature, lives away from birth place. 


Moon in Swati: Righteous, compassionate, truthful, famous, clever speech, generous nature, 
adamant hot-tempered, independent, traveler, advancement after 30, humanitarian 
concern, charitable. 


The moon in Swaati indicates someone who is musical, artistic, creative, intuitive and 
psychic. They have good business and financial skills and are good communicators. They 
are good learners, knowledgable, curious and flexible in their approach. They can be 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 128 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


vulnerable but are good survivors. However, they can also be changeable, restless and 
fickle. 


The Sun in Swati:Self-employed, business skills, logical, good social statud, authority figure, 
troubles with government, fall from grace, always looking for future success, difficulties 
with father. 


Career interests: Business skills, sales, yoga teachers, priests, legal profession, judges, 
transportation, travel industry, stock brokers, traders in medicines, drug and alcohol, 
chemicals, precious metals and travel industry, involved in religious organisations and 
politics. 


Health issues: Hernia, Eczema, skin problems, urinary, bladder, kidneys, flatulence, 
intestinal problems, pain in the joints, heart trouble, abdominal problems etc. 
Shadowy Side:Self-centredness with the objective of personal gains, focus too much on 
social work may create friction within the family, 


e Nakshatras- VISHAKA (Fork Shaped) THE STAR OF PURPOSE 


o Western star name: a, B, y and 1 Librae (Beta Librae) 
Lord: Guru (Jupiter) 

Symbol : Triumphal arch, potter's wheel 

Indian zodiac: 20° Tula - 3°20' Vrishchika 

Western zodiac 16° - 29°20" Scorpio 


o0o0 0 


Deities : Indira, chief of the gods; Agni, god of Fire 
Symbol: Archway, Potter’s wheel 

Animal symbol: Male Tiger 

Vyapani shakti: to achieve many and various fruitsw in life 


Truimph Arch 


Vishakha is ruled by Indra and Agni, who represents the powers of heat and lightning in 
the atmosphere.This is the "Star of Purpose". This is the 16th nakshatra of the zodiac, 
spanning from 20°-00' in Tula to 3°-20' in Vrishchika. Another name of this star is Radha, a 
compliment to Anuradha, the birth star of the Sun. It has the Symbol of a leaf-decked 
triumphal gate. 


Vishakha does not give immediate results but perhaps greater long term gains. Indra and 
Agni here are related to agriculture showing the ripening effect of heat, rain and seasonal 
changes. 


Visaakhaa or Raadhaa connotes the idea of Anuradha or act of worshipping. It has in it the 
idea of a worshipper or actions in which the sole purpose is the accomplishment of the end 
in view. It leads to a state where achievement of purpose is the sole motive. Not unnaturally, 
therefore, such efforts may not be free from scruples or good principles. Obviously, it does 
not make intimate friendship with others, on the contrary it leads one to his self-interest. In 
mythology, it is said that it is born of Ravi and attaches particular force of Ravi. 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 129 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


A person born in this Nakshatra is religious minded having inclination towards performing 
rites and rituals etc., is of unstable nature and unfriendly. Vishakha born have a well- 
proportioned body, but they tend to be obese and put on weight with the passing of age. 
Vishakha people can be envious or covetous of the success of others. They may lack a strong 
social network of friends and feel isolated and alone against the world. Bitterness and 
resentment may result. 


Those born under this nakshatra are likely to have a very happy marital life and will make 
good marriage partners. A man born under this star works at various things but hardly 
concentrates on any one of them.They are an excellent communicator, and they write and 
speak well. 


Females born in this nakshatra are beautiful and religious in nature. They need to have a 
well balanced diet and should exercise regularly to keep them fit.They will have a sweet 
tongue and quiet diplomatic in their choice of words.They are dreamers, liking astrology, 
administrators, brave, strong and of charitable nature. 


Ascendant n Vishaka: Aggressive,impatient, easily angered, wise, devoted to forms of 
worship, wealthy, politically inclined, astrological knowledge, mystical. 


The Moon in Vishaka: Intelligence of the highest order, speaks convincingly, writer, bright 
appearance, attracts a crowd, leadership, lively away from family, treats all religions as one, 
truthful, politically inclined, humanitarian. 


The moon in Vishakha indicates a person who is purposeful, goal oriented, ambitious, 
competitive, opinionated, forceful and determined. They are persistent and patient, but 
quick witted and intelligent. They are pleasant and popular and are good communicators, 
but they can also be abrasive. They usually only achieve success later in life and can be 
jealous and envious of others 


The Sun in Vishaka: Self-centred nature, ambitious, introvert, secretive nature, troubles 
with authority figures, research-oriented, scientific, restlessness and problems with alcohol. 


Career interests: Researchers, scientists, Military leaders, Writers, public speakers, 
Politicians, lawyers. 


Health issues: Those born under this nakshatra could suffer from ailments like paralysis, 
kidney and bladder trouble, hormone deficiencies, problems related to the Breasts, Arms, 
Reproductive organs and the Stomach. 


Shadowy side: Aggressive, dictatorial, losing the wary by pushing their agendas too 
strongly, quarrelsome personality, issues with suppressed anger and frustration, putting 
fingers on many pies, envious and covetous of others’ success, uncontrollable sexual 
appetite, betrayl and disappointment in marriage, infidelity. 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 130 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


e Nakshatras - ANURADHA (Disciple of Divine Spark) CALLING TO ACTION 


o ©Western star name: B, 6 and 1 Scorpii (Delta Scorpi) 
Lord: Shani (Saturn) 

Symbol : Triumphal archway, lotus 

Indian zodiac: 3°20' - 16°40' Vrishchika 

Western zodiac 29°20' Scorpio - 12°40' Sagittarius 


Oo 0 0 0 


Deity : Mitra, one of Adityas of friendship and partnership 
Symbol: Lotus, Archway 

Animal symbol: Female deer or hare 

Radhana shakti:The power of worship. 


Lotus 


The Nakshatra Anuradha is ruled by Mitra, the Divine Friend. This is the 17th nakshatra of 
the zodiac, spanning from 3°-20' to 16°-40' in the sign of Vrishchika. Anuradha Nakshatra 
gives balance in relationship, both honoring others and seeking ourselves to be honorable. A 
person born in this Nakshatra possesses lustre and splendour, achieves fame, is enthusiastic, 
a destroyer of his enemies, an expert in many forms of arts and a sensualist. 


Anuraadhaa and Raadhaa (Visaakhaa) are complementary to each other in ideas. 
Anuraadhaa forms a pair with Visaakhaa. The leading ideas in it are same as in Visaakhaa. 
In particular, in affection, friendship it is more expressive than Visaakhaa. Visaakhaa leads 
to a purpose tainted with selfishness but in Anuraadhaa the actions are without such 
selfishness. 


Mitra means friendship. Mitra and Varuna are members of the group of the Aaditya, sons 
of (the goddess) Aditi. The names of the members are variable. The chief is Varuna and 
those most often mentioned after him are Mitra and Aryaman. Only one characteristic 
distinctive of him is that he holds men in their engagements, urging them to associate 
together. ‘Mi’ means ‘to exchange’. He is thus the counterpart benevolent, judicial and 
sacerdotal of the majestic and terrible sovereign which Varuna represents. 


People born in this nakshatra also show some very peculiar characteristics. Those born 
under this star have to face several obstacles in their life, and hence they have a somewhat 
defeated look on their face.They can reside in foreign lands and achieve success away from 
their homeland. Anuradha people usually possess good health and vitality. Called the "star 
of success," Anuradha natives can demonstrate organizational skills and call others to 
activity. 


Anuradha born, are not on good terms with their parents and other close relations. Some of 
them may be creative, especially in the performing arts. Many of them will shine in social 
and political fields. Those born under this nakshatra could suffer from minor bodily 
ailments like asthma, breathing trouble, cough and cold and dental problems.They need to 
watch their dietary habits due to an inability to bear hunger or thirst. They have a strong 
appetite for life in general. 


They are learned, have deep devotion, softness, musical talents, royal position, quickness. 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 131 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


Ascendant in Anuradha: Attractive, passionate, a wanderer, psychic, devoted to spiritual 
pursuits, secretive nature, moody, need to watch diet, promiscuous, fond of family life, 
groups, organisations. 


The Moon in Anuradha: Wise, trustful, kind-hearted, charismatic, hard working, brave, 
wealthy, handles difficult situations, problems with maternal relationships, coome what 
may, they march forward. 


The moon in Anuradha indicates someone who has balanced friendships and relationships 
and is co-operative, loving, popular, and successful. They are good leaders and organisers 
and are focused on their goals, but they are also good at sharing. They are sensual, and love 
variety and travel. They are faithful and devoted to those they love, but they can also be 
jealous and angry. 


Sun in Anuradha: Leadership ability, interest in politics, important group affilations, 
successful, wealthy, respected, responsible, athletic, physical strength, determined, gifts in 
the fine arts, creative. 


Career interests: Business management, Travel industry, Event Managers, Dentists, 
Plumbers, Criminal lawyers, Actors, musicians, Mining engineers,etc. 


Health issues: Troubles related to the Stomach, bowels, Constipation, piles, Irregular 
menstruation, tender womb, Sore throat, colds, Breast problems 


Shadowy side: Issues due to jealousy and desire to control others, desire to change places, 
abuse of occult powers for selfish ends, low frsustratin tolerance (Saddam Hussein’s Moon 
conject Mars and Rahu in this asterism), melancholic nature and inability to bear hunger. 


e Nakshatras- JYESTHA (The Eldest)THE CHIEF STAR 


o Western star name: a, o, and t Scorpii (Alpha Scorpi) 

Lord: Budh (Mercury) 

Symbol : circular amulet, umbrella, earring Deity : Indri, chief of the gods 
Indian zodiac: 16°40' - 30° Vrishchika 

Western zodiac 12°40' - 26° Sagittarius 


o0o00 0 


Deity: Indra, the King of the Gods 

Symbols: Ear rings, Umbrella 

Animal symbol:Male Deer or Hare 

Arohona Shakti:Power to rise, conquer and gain courage in a battle. 


Umbrella 


This is the 18th nakshatra of the zodiac, spanning form 16°-20' to 30°-00' in the sign of 
Vrishchika. Jyeshtha means the eldest one, the senior most, the chief one, more excellent 
than, preferred one or someone or something supreme glorious. The person born under this 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 132 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


star is full of lustre and splendour, achieves fame and greatness, is rich, brave, a hero and 
an excellent conversationalist. 


The chief deity is Indra, the King of the Gods and protector of heroes. He is the divine 
warrior and "dragon slayer." He rides the mighty elephant, carries the thunderbolt and 
demonstrates the power of truth. Indra is known for his daring nature, courage, power, and 
glory. Jyeshta allows us to reach the summit of our personal powers but it requires great 
courage and effort. People born in this nakshatra possess a mix of the qualities of Mercury 
and Mars. 


Anthropomorphically Middle Finger and Neck of Kalapurush. Jyeshtha means the eldest 
one, the senior roost, the chief one, more excellent than, preferred one or someone or 
something supreme glorious. 


In mythology there are many stories about Indra and his drink Soma. Indra is personified. 
His companion is Maarut and has formed relations with Asvins. He has unlimited power, 
and he is governed by himself and exists from time immemorial. He is termed Satakratu, — 
possessing a hundred powers. It is easy to understand the allegories if Indra is substituted 
for Indriyas (senses) and Soma for mind. However, when affected badly it gives dire 
indigence and poverty. 


Jyeshtha born have excellent physical stamina and a good physical appearance.The 
qualities make them appear like a very proud person, but the facts are actually different. 


The people born under this star are not very clear about the profession they want to pursue 
for life, and hence keep on changing jobs or the lines of business often.They are an expert at 
working with their hands and at fashioning metals.They can be involved in religious 
practices while simultaneously entrenched in materialistic pursuits. The primary 
motivation of Jyeshtha is artha or material prosperity. They are artisitc, lover of 
ornaments, costly dresses, dreamers, brave, agriculturists, philosophical and well-talented. 


Ascendant in Jyeshtha: Honoured, intent on their dharma, writing skill, smooth and 
respected, loose moral and much passion, many friends, well-liked, love of children, 
charitable. 


The Moon in jayestha: Virtuous, irritable at times, musical gifts, obstinate nature, good 
stamina, many job changes, trouble early in life, tormented. 


The moon in Jyeshtha indicates a person with a sense of seniority and superiority, who is 
protective, responsible and a leader of their family. They are wise, profound, psychic, 
maybe with occult powers, and are courageous and inventive. They may experience poverty 
and hardship in life and can be reclusive and secretive 


The Sun in Jyestha: Attains fame but desires seclusion, ambitious nature, hard working, 
high social status, good executive ability, family obligations and responsibilities, imaginative 
and innovative mind. 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 133 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


Career Interests: Self-employed, management leaders,Military leaders, Musicians, dancers, 
Police detectives, engineers, Intellectuals, philosophers. 


Health issues: Ailments like pain in the joints, cough and cold, sleeplessness, genital organs, 
ovaries, muscular problems, neck pain, ear aches, stomach problems. 


Shadowy side: If afflicted, causes poverty and fall from grace. They have few friends and 
desire seclusion. Secretive and hypocritical nature, conflicts of one’s self-respect and image, 
arrogance, pride and egotism. 


e Nakshatras- MOOLA (The Root) THE ORIGINAL OR FOUNDATION OR ROOT 
STAR 


o Western star name: ¢, C, n, 8,1, K, A, 0, p and v Scorpii(Lamda Scorpi) 

o Lord: Ketu (south lunar node) 

o Symbol: Bunch of roots tied together, elephant goad Indian zodiac: 0° - 
13°20' Dhanus ; Western zodiac 26° Sagittarius - 9°20' Capricorn 


Deity : Niriti, goddess of dissolution and destruction 

Symbol: Tied bunch of roots, tail of a lion 

Animal symbol:Male dog 

Barhana shakti: the power to ruin, destroy and break things apart. 


Crouching Lion 


Moola is ruled by Nirriti, the Goddess of destruction.This is the 19th nakshatra of the 
zodiac, spanning from 00°-00' to 13°-20' in the sign of Dhanus.The meaning of the word, 
Moola means the root.The Symbol is a bunch of roots tied together. Moola signifies roots, 
that is to say, everything of basic nature, its motion is finite and limited. Moola connotes the 
ideas of foundation, commencement, from the very bottom, the chief or principal city or the 
capital. 


Mula connotes the ideas of foundation, commencement, from the very bottom, the chief or 
principal city or the capital. The Indian vegetable Muulaa (raddish) has characteristics 
similar to Muulaa Nakshatra. Muulaa does not grow on the surface of the soil but 
penetrates into the soil deeper. So, Muulaa is opposed to the idea of worldly prosperity. 
Rather, the ideas are penetration into the root cause in science, philosophy or in any other 
knowledge. It leads to the ideas of being rooted, or the bottom of anything. 


The symbol ‘tied bunch of root’ denotes binding, bondage or restraint. It denotes a pledged 
property or a temporary owner (as opposed to rightful owner) or an original territory. 
Devata ‘Nirriti’ (the root one) has ideas opposed to fortune or one whose property has gone 
away. From worldly perspective, Muulaa does not indicate fortune or luck. Lending and 
borrowing during Muulaa is forbidden for it is not helpful for early and easy repayment. 


Moola does not indicate fortune or luck. The people born on this nakshatra will be 
financially successful and lead a materially comfortable life. The ruler of this lunar mansion 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 134 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


is Ketu, the South Node of the Moon. The Mula individual may possess a deep philosophical 
nature and an inquisitive mind that enjoys exploring the roots of any subject. 


The people born on this nakshatra gain the wisdom and knowledge through their hard 
work. Theycause destruction to their families. They are peace- loving personalities, but will 
not hesitate to fight for what rightfully belongs to them. 


Moola born people have multiple skills and hence, change of professions is a regular feature 
for these people and they spend their money recklessly. These people do not enjoy good 
equation with their parents.They are ambitious, learned, wavering, writers, proud, 
talkative, travellers and very helpful. 


Ascendant in Mula: Ambitious and independent, learned and philosophical, skilled, clever, 
suspicious, marital turmoil, issues with anger, health complaints. 


The Moon in Mula : Proud, attractive, fixed mind, gives piritual advice, peace loving, good 
oratory skills, success in foreign lands, wealthy, luxurious habitssoft disposition, charitable 
disposition. 


The moon in Mula indicates a person who has a passionate desire to get to the truth and is 
good at investigation and research. They are direct, ardent and truthful and are shrewd and 
ambitious, but they can feel trapped and bound by circumstances and so feel resentment 
and a sense of betrayal. They can also suffer extreme reversals of fortune that may involve 
pain and cruelty 


The Sun in Mula: Fame, success, wealth, powerful, strong, dictatorial nature, psychic, 
mysticl interests, athletic ability, courage, humanitarian concern, spiritual leadership. 


Career interests: Public speakers, Writers, Philosophers, spiritual teachers, Lawyers, 
politicians, Doctors, pharmacists, Business and sales. 


Health issues:Hip and thigh problems, sciatic nerve problems, Obesity, liver issues Mental 
vacillation, etc. 


Shadowy side: Infliction of pain to attain God-realization, indulging in black magic, casting 
spells, exorcism, punishment and even murder. 


e Nakshatras- PURVA ASHADA (Karly Victory or The Undefeated)THE 
INVINCIBLE STAR 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 135 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


o Western star name: 6 and ¢ Sagittarii (Delta Sagittari) 

o Lord: Shukra (Venus) 

o Symbol: Elephant tusk, fan, winnowing basket Indian zodiac: 13°20' - 26°40' 
Dhanus 

o Western zodiac 9°20' - 22°40' Capricorn 


Deities : Apah the god of water, Varuna the god of rains 
Symbols: Fan, Winnowing Basket 

Animal symbols: Male Monkey 

Varchograhana shakti: the power of invigorating. 


Hand Fan 


Poorva Ashadha is ruled by the Waters. Poorva Ashadha provides us additional energy for 
our efforts. It is also known as the "Invincible Star".This nakshatra is associated with 
declarations of war.This nakshatra spans from 13°-20' to 26°-40' in the sign Dhanus, the 
sign ruled by the lord of wisdom. It has the symbol of hand fan. People born in 
Poorvashadha are intelligent and convincing. 


Purva Ashadha means the undefeated or unsubdued and is called the invincible star. Its 
natives are very proud people with the ability to influence and empathize with the masses. 
Purva Ashadha usually brings fame, wealth, fertility and much wisdom. 


According to some, the deity of ‘Poorbasarha’ is ‘Daksha’ the son of Prajapati. He was the 
father of ‘Sati’, he was the most powerful among Gods but having incurred the displeasure 
of ‘Shiva’ he was beheaded and had a goat’s head in place of his own. From this it is 
possible to ascribe attributes like truth desire and other qualities of Puru, Kuru, Pururaba 
and others to this star. 


The Invincible One. Symbol — Winnowing basket or a fan. Devata — Toya. 
Puurvaashaadhaa and Uttaraashaadhaa are a pair in one. Puurva is the first part and 
Uttara is the second part. In general the ideas in both these Nakshatra are almost same but 
in particular there are some differences in them. Puurvaashaadhaa has another name 
Aparaajitaa (undefeated). It connotes the idea of victory. Devataa Toya is water. The 
Nakshatra has in it the idea of spreading like the (Guna) of water. Thus, if related to the 
name of a person it means the spreading of his name as good or bad one. 


They tend to get into arguments with others and prove their intelligence through the 
arguments.They lack the necessary logical reasoning to take a well thought out decision. 
These natives can exhibit an over-expansive nature, and usually do what they like without 
considering others opinions. They are good debaters and can defeat anyone in an argument. 
They can become obstinate and will not submit to the demands of anyone. 


Poorva Ashadha born seriously start thinking about pursuing any of their interests. The 
females born in this nakshatra have a determination to lead the group, wherever they are. 
They are clever, helpful, brave, conspirers, selfish, evil minded and wealthy. 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 136 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


Ascendant in Purva Ashada: Proud nature, position of high respect, faithful to their mate, 
good marriage, humble, many friends and children, strong interest in law and politics. 


Moon in Purva Ashada: Attractive, charismatic leader, obstinate, convincing power, 
dictatorial, intelligent, good communicator, highly philosophical nature, writing skills, 
strong attachment to certain friends. 


The moon in Purva Ashadha indicates a person who is proud, independent, and invincible 
with strong influence and power over others. They are ambitious and fearless, with a strong 
urge to better themselves. They have deep emotions and are philosophical, but they can also 
be confrontational, angry and harshly spoken 


Sun in Purva Ashada:Leadership skills, philosophical, political interests, good speaking 
skills, slow but steady recognition and fame, humanitarian concern, charitable, interest in 
sports, competitive, strange personality challenges, zealous. 


Career interests: Writers, teachers, debaters, Shipping industry, Politicians, lawyers, Travel 
industry, foreign traders, Actors, film, public speaking. 


Health interests: Bladder, kidney problems, Sexual diseases, Colds and lung problems, 
Sciatica, rheumatism. uterine problems. 


Shadowy side: Exhibiting over-expansive nature, doing things without considering others 
opinion, obstinacy to the extent of not submitting to others demand (Adolf Hitler had his 
natal moon on this asterism). Mental aggression and self-deception. 


e Nakshatras- UTTARA ASHADA (Latter victory /Undefeated) THE UNIVERSAL 
STAR 


Western star name: ¢ and o Sagittarii (Delta Sagittari) 
Lord: Surya (Sun) 

Indian zodiac: 26°40' Dhanus - 10° Makara ; 

Western zodiac 22°40' Capricorn - 6° Aquarius 


o0o00 0 


Deity : The Ten Vishvedas, universal gods 
Symbols: Elephant’s tusk, the planks of a bed 
i Animal symbol: Male mongoose 


E Apradhrisya shakti: the power to grant an unchallengeable victory 
Elephant Tusk 


Uttara Ashadha is ruled by the Universal Gods (Vishwe Deva). It is also known as the 
"Universal Star".This nakshatra spans from 26°-40' in Dhanus to 10°-00' in Makara. 
Uttara Ashadha is introspective and penetrative and is concerned with intensiveness, the 
results of the latter being more permanent than the former. Uttaraashadha is the second 
part of the Nakshatra Sagittarius. 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 137 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


Uttaraashadhaa is the second part of the Nakshatra Sagittarius (Poorvaashadhaa and 
Uttaraashadhaa). Poorvaashadhaa has the idea of spreading over but Uttaraashadhaa has 
the idea of penetration, intention. It has in it the idea to settle down, to be absorbed into, to 
come in conjunction or to appear. 


Ganadevataa rules over all the living things and does them good (Mangala). Gaana means 
division or class — classification. Ganadevataa is, therefore, the lord or ‘class’. In 
individuals it is the senses, and therefore, has idea of control over the senses. 


Ganadevataa is known by 10 different names — Basu, Satya, Kratu, Daksya, Kabi, Kaama, 
Dhrti, Kuroo, Purorava and Madraba. Each of them denotes certain special attribute of 
Ganadevataa. The entire ideas denoted by the ten comprise to a universal social figure. 


Uttara Ashadha brings us to the summit of our power, support and recognition, not so 
much through our personal efforts but with the appropriate alliances and support of all the 
Gods. Uttara Ashadha born can be driven like a workaholic, extremely persistent when 
excited, but if they loose interest they become lazy, introspective, and not finish what they 
started. 


A strongly placed moon in the natal chart of some Uttara Ashadha born can give them a 
fair complexion. The people born under this nakshatra do not trust others easily and it is 
only after spending considerable times with them that others can get an entry into the inner 
circle of their friends. 


The males born in this nakshatra are good mediators in any dispute. A good Mercury 
placed in their natal chart con make them a good consultant or advisor in any field. They 
are usually preachers, respected, noble, basting, of wavering mind and often short tempered 


Ascendant in Uttara Ashada:Sincere and kind nature, honest, sharp intellect, reads 
intensely, fond of fun, wanderer with many mates, good public servant and counselor, 
becomes famous later in life. 


The Moon in Uttara Ashada: Virtuous, intelligent, charitable, well-liked, many friends, 
charming, grateful, leadership, military prowess, success after 35, trouble with early 
marriage. 


-The moon in Uttara Ashadha indicates a person who enduring, invincible, patient, 
righteous and responsible. They have great integrity and are sincere, committed to ideals, 
ambitious and good leaders. They usually have success later in life and have great stamina 
and constancy, but they can also be rigid and unbending 


The Sun in Uttara Ashada: Humanitarian, spiritual nature, desire to change societal values, 
research oriented, learned, philosophical nature, deep thinker, well-known 
butcontroversial, strong speech, fighter for a cause. 


Career interests: Pioneers, researchers, scientists, military work, hunters, boxers, fighters 
for a cause, government jobs, social work. 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 138 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


Health issues: Stomach probles, waist, thighs and hips, eczema, skin dryness, arthritis, bone 
problems. 


Shadowy side: Constantly active, if they are not fully engaged in a project then apathy can 


result; stubborn and self-centred; loneliness or melancholy, need to learn the quality of 
patience in confronting adversity; difficulties in early marriage or sexual incompatibility. 


e Nakshatras- SRAVANA (Hearing) THE STAR OF LEARNING 


o Western star name: a, B and y Aquilae (Alpha Aquilae) 
o Lord: Chandra (Moon) 

o Symbol: Ear or Three Footprints 

o Indian zodiac: 10° - 23°20' Makara ; 

o Western zodiac 6° - 19°20" Aquarius 


Deity : Vishnu, preserver of universe 

Symbol: An ear, three footprints 

Animal symbol: Female monkey 

Samhanana shakti: Power of linking people together to their appropriate 
paths in life. 


Arrow 


Sravana is ruled by Vishnu, the pervador. This is the star of listening, also called the "Star 
of Learning". The mercurial planet Moon owns this nakshatra. This Constellation spans 
from 10°-00' to 23°-20' in Makara, owned by the planet Saturn. Sravana usually means 
"hearing". The symbol of Sravana is three foot-prints. It is the birth star of 
Saraswati.Sravana enables to link people together by connecting them to their appropriate 
paths in life. 


The symbol of Sravana is three foot-prints. This is distinct from the symbol of Lakshmi — 
the goddess of prosperity or Acaaraana who has two foot-prints. The symbol of Saraswati 
or Lakshmi is seen in decoration before the image before the service or worship. The ideas 
of the symbols will be clear from the illustration given herein. The _ foot-prints of Sravana 
denote progress and where knowledge is concerned it denotes knowledge for progress or 
progressive knowledge. But in case of Lakshmi the idea of the worshipper is to see her 
steady and firmly fixed. 


In mythology, Vishnu means ‘he who crosses the heights’ which means ‘active’ or 
‘progress’. Vishnu traverses space in three strides of which first two are visible and the 
third is space (beyond the flight of birds). It is also used to denote knowledge of the world, 
the universe and which is beyond the two. Again, they also mean past, present and future or 
Time. The name is also referred to as Urugaya, Urukrama — he who strides far. Vishnu is 
an ally of Indra whom he helped in defeating Vrtra and is associated with the Maruts. The 
mythology helps in knowing the powers of the Nakshatra and its relation to help correct 
vision into the objectives. 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 139 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


A person born in this Nakshatra is well versed in the sacred texts and scriptures, has many 
sons and friends, and destroys his enemies. These people like to mingle with others and have 
a large network of friends. 


Sravana born people are ready to help others, they seldom gain the respect and faith of 
those whom they help. Those who born under this nakshatra will be financially successful 
and lead a materially comfortable life. 


A male born in this nakshatra will be of medium height and a slender body. Females born 
in this nakshatra tend to be too much talkative and they have some rigid ideas about their 
husbands and they are not ready to compromise when it comes to the qualities of their 
husband. 


Ascendant in Sravana: Religious nature, scholarly work, excellent character, w2ell-known, 
may live away from birth place, charitable, kind nature, few children. 


Moon in Sravana: Intelligent, good speech, fame, wealthy, creative genius, art interests, 
charitable, a good host, principled, political interest, overly zealous, generous, religious, 
perfectionist, eats good food. 


The moon in Shravana indicates a person who is good at listening and learning and is on a 
quest for knowledge and information. They are intellectual and wise, and make good 
teachers and counsellors and are good at conversation, but they can also be gossipy and 
restless. They are interested in the past and their heritage and are extensive travellers. They 
can suffer troubles and disappointment early in life. 


Sun in Sravana: Political, pragmatic nature, successful, difficulties with superiors, 
rebellious, gifts I the communication field, strong constitution, good health. 


Career interests: Teachers, speech therepists, linguists, astrologers, religious scholars, 
politicians, business skills, geologists, researchers, travel. 


Health issues: Hearing problems, ears, skin sensitivities, reproductive organs, knees, 
rheumatism. 


Shadowy side: Rigid or obstinate nature, enemies due to issues of jealousies, gossiping, 
sensitive and easily hurt by others opinions, face disillusionment in early life, feeling of 
inferiority. Once they achieve financial security they are free to pursue the higher goals of 
enlightenment and spiritual liberation. 


e Nakshatras- DHANISHTA (Richest One) STAR OF SYMPHONY 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 140 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


Western star name: @ to 6 Delphini (Alpha Delphini) 
Lord: Mangala (Mars) 

Symbol : Drum or flute 

Indian zodiac: 23°20' Makara - 6°40' Kumbha ; 
Western zodiac 19°20' Aquarius - 2°40' Pisces 


00000 


Eight vasus, deities of earthly abundance 
Symbol: a musical drum, tabla or flute 
Animal symbol:Female lion 


Khyapayitri shakti: the power to give abundance and fame. 
musical 


drum 


Dhanishta is ruled by the Vasus, the Gods of abundance. It is known as the"Star of 
Symphony". This nakshatra is owned by the fiery planet Mars. This nakshatra spans from 
23°-20' in Makar to 6°-40' in Kumbha. The symbol is a drum and tabla. Dhanishtha has two 
meanings in it - one is Dhana (riches) and the other is Dhvani (sound). Dhanishta builds 
upon the connections of Shravana and makes them more practical 


Anthropomorphically it is the back of Kalapurush. 
Dhanishtha has two meanings in it — one is Dhana (riches) and the other is Dhvani (sound). 


Bosu is often referred to as Asta Bosu (eight attributes of Bosu) known by Dharaa, Dhruba, 
Soma, Vishnu, Anal, Anil, Pratush and Provaasa. In different scriptures they are mentioned 
by different names and each name ultimately points to a particular power. Summing up the 
ideas they mean charity, controlling capacity and the royal virtues. Bosu is said to have its 
origin from Gangaa (river). 


Dhanishtha Nakshatra has one uncommon characteristic denoting delayed marriage or 
unhappy married life. It indicates sexual weakness. It differs temperamentally with its 
partner. 


Dhanishtha in Makara has the idea of a river. In Kumbha the idea is ocean or sea. 
Therefore, the ideas of Dhanishtha also differ according to its position in Makar or 
Kumbha. 


A person born in this Nakshatra is of excellent behaviour, practical, rich, powerful and kind 
hearted. People born in this nakshatra are lean and tall, with good ability to resist 
contagious diseases. These people get angry and are determined to crush the offender with 
all their might.These people need to take proper care of their health, as they tend to neglect 
their health problems till they reach the extreme stage. 


Dhanishta born are passionate about the past and spend time in learning about it. 
Dhanishtha Nakshatra has one uncommon characteristic denoting delayed marriage or 
unhappy married life. 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 14] 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


Females born in this nakshatra always look younger than their actual age. Marital life will 
be happy and satisfactory. Those born under this nakshatra could suffer from complaints 
like anaemia, cough and cold etc. Women may suffer from uterine problems. 


Ascendant in Dhanishta: Regal and heroic nature, humanitarian, idealistic, charitable, 
virtuous, ambitious, optimistic, wealthy, philosophical, raswh, arrogant, inquisitive mind, 
liberal in thought. 


Moon in Dhanishta: Wealthy, liberal in gift-giving, charitable, daring and rash in 
action, controversial, fond of music and poetry, mystical, difficult to convince of anything, 
troubles or delay in marriage, several mates, obstinate. 


The moon in Dhanishtha indicates a person who possesses material wealth and property. 
They need fame and recognition and are good leaders, but they can be greedy and self 
absorbed. They are musical and good at dancing and like to travel. They can also 
experience marital difficulties. They are patient, suffering, royal life, enduring, revengeful, 
brave and social. 


The Sun in Dhanishta: Courageous, strong, issues with anger, curious mind, 
researchoriented, athletic, hard working, philosophical nature, social interests, wealthy, 
successful, cynical, stressful lifestyle, irrational at times. 


Career interests: Musicians, poets, doctors, surgeons, real estate, property management, 
engineering, mining, scientists, research work, charitable organizations. 


Shadowy side: Materialistic bent of mind to the extent of possessing everything for self, 
overly ambitious, stingy or covetous of others fortune, a tendency twords self absorption 
and narcissism (Excessive love or admiration of oneself), inconsiderate and ruthless, 
heartless and revengeful, trouble with marriage. 


e Nakshatras- SATABHISHA (Hundred Healers) THE VEILING STAR 
o Western star name: y Aquarii (Lamda Aquari) 
o Lord: Rahu (north lunar node) 
o Indian zodiac: 6°40' - 20° Kumbha ; 
o Western zodiac 2°40' - 16° Pisces 


Deity : Varuna, god of cosmic waters, sky and earth 
Symbols : Empty circle, 1,000 physicians, flowers or stars 
Animal symbol: Female horse 


Empty Circle 


Bhesaja shakti: The power of bestowing wisdom, medical healing and mystical he 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 142 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


Satabhisha is ruled by Varuna, the God of the cosmic waters. it is aslo known as the 
"Veiling Star". This nakshatra is about healing the human condition spiritually and 
physically. Satabhisha is the nakshatra owned by the node Rahu. The entire span of this 
nakshatra falls in the sign Kumbha, from 6°-40' to 20°-00'. The symbol is a circle.This 
nakshatra is the large group of faint stars in the Water Bearer(Aquarius 


Satabhisha literally connotes the idea of bheshaja (medicine). It has in it a great remedial 
power and therefore, may represent a healer, physician, a remedy or spirituous liquors. 
Satabhisha attaches to it the idea of a pot covered with a lid which is also used in preparing 
medicines. It also, therefore, refers to things hidden, hiding place, armour, etc. The 
obstructive power of Satabhisha both in giving or receiving as are indicated by the symbol 
is not at all helpful for fulfilment of any work easily. Naturally, it is indicative of causing 
pains, restraints, laziness, peevish temperament, cynic, etc. 


The star Aquarii bears the Arab name 'Sadal Melik' which means 'fortunate star for the 
king'. Aquarii was known to the Arabs. 'Sadal Suud' means the luckiest of the lucky. The 
star in this region appears to have been in great favour with the early astrologers. 


Devata Varuna rules over water and the west. He is offered worshipped for rains. In 
mythology Varuna is described as pure power. He travels in space and holds radioactive 
powers by the roots ascending higher up and the faces downwards. He has power to sustain 
life from death. He has thousands of medicines. He holds potential strength to protect one 
from Nirriti. He can control longevity at his pleasure. He is learned, unenvious and can 
unite bondage or give salvation. He judges deeds and misdeeds of people’s and grant wealth 
and prosperity. His activities are unobstructible. Obviously, he has similar powers like that 
of Yama. In short, he is the power of horses, producer of milk in cows, the sun in the 
invisible space and the planter of herbs on the hills. People affected by his rage are attacked 
with diseases having relation with water (Hydro) and is cured when he is appeased. 


Satabhisha brings about a healing crisis leading to revitalization. A person born in this 
Nakshatra is brave, clever and destroys his enemies. People born in this nakshatra are very 
simple, principled people living a simple, straightforward life. Satabhisha born are ideally 
suited for any scientific career or a research job. hatabhisha born are are very changeable 
and often confuse people. 


The males born in this nakshatra are generally biased, very religious and god-fearing. The 
females born in this nakshatra are tall and thin, with a matured expression on their face 
and they are very religious and god-fearing. 


Ascendant in Satabhisha: Interest in mysticism and astrology, service-oriented, quiet, 
honest, philosophical nature, political interests, travel for educational purposes, intelligent, 
trouble with alcohol, deception. 


Moon in Satahisha: Truthful, principled, charitable, writing skill, excellent memory, 
interest in astrology, psychology, daring, adamant, bold nature, defeats enemies, 
opinionated, independent, artistic nature. 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 143 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


The moon in Shatabhisha indicates a person who is a good healer or doctor, and who is 
mystical, meditative, philosophical, scientific and a visionary. However, they can also be 
secretive, reclusive, moody, depressed, opinionated and stubborn; and suffer setbacks in 
relationships and marriage as a result. 


The moon in Shatabhisha indicates a person who is a good healer or doctor, and who is 
mystical, meditative, philosophical, scientific and a visionary. However, they can also be 
secretive, reclusive, moody, depressed, opinionated and stubborn; and suffer setbacks in 
relationships and marriage as a result. 


The Sun in Shatabhisha: Good intelligence, creative genius, hard working, humanitarian 
concern, writing ability, philosophical nature, needs external encouragement, sickly. 


Career interests:They are cultured, artistic, writers, astrologers, astronomers, physicians, 
healers, research workers, secretaries, engineers, electricians, organizational development 
staff. 


Health issues:Those born under this nakshatra could suffer from complaints like cough and 
cold, pneumonia, arthritis, rheumatism, heart trouble, hypertension, calves and ankles, jaw 
problems, bone fractures. 


Shadowy side: They feel that life is a duty and feel restrained and restricted and suffer from 
loneliness and depression. Due to apathy, suffering and feeling of paralysis makes him feel 
victimized. They have obstruction and obstacles in early life, The are inclined to harsh 
speech and intrusive nature. 


e Nakshatras-PURVA BHADRAPADA (Former Ha Feet) SCORCHING PAIR 
o Western star name: a and B Pegasi (Alpha Pegasi) 

Lord: Guru (Jupiter) 

Symbol : Swords or two front legs of funeral cot, man with two faces 

Indian zodiac: 20° Kumbha - 3°20' Meena ; 

Western zodiac 16° - 29°20' Pisces 


[e) 
[e) 
[e) 
12) 


Deity : Aja Ekapada- the one footed goat; Ajikapada, an ancient fire dragon 
Symbols: A sword, two legs of a bed, two-faced man 

Animal symbol: Male lion 

Yajamana vdyamana shakti: Fiery power to raise a spiritual person up in 
life. 


Front legs of 
deathbed 


Purvabhadrapada is ruled by Aja Ekapad, the one-footed serpent. This nakshatra spans 
from 20°-0' in Kumbha to 3°-20' in Meena.The symbol is a _ double-faced 
man.Purvabhadrapada raises up our spiritual aspiration in life and takes us out of the 
domain of selfish behavior. This is a transformational nakshatra where they will sacrifice 
themselves for a higher cause, to make a difference in the world. 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 144 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


Anthropomorphically the side of the body of Kalapurush. 


Poorvabhaadra (The Scorching Pair) Symbol — A double faced man. Devata — Ajapada 
(Aja-ek-paada a form of Rudra). The ideas in Poorvabhaadra are burning by fire, give 
pains, punish, burning repentance or unsteady mind. There is a sense of cruelty in it. It 
forms a pair with Uttara-bhadra. 


A person born in this Nakshatra has full control over his sense organs, is intelligent, an 
expert in all art forms, and destroys his enemies. Poorvabhadrapada born are risk takers 
and their charming personality often gets them out of tight spots. 


A person born in the first three quarters of this nakshatra has a slender, tall stature. Purva 
Bhadrapada born have set of principles in their life, which they like to follow under any 
circumstances. 


Purva Bhadrapada born are a very adaptable kind and can change themself as the situation 
warrants. They spend money in the most proper way, avoiding any misuse of the same. 
Poorvabhadrapada born are engaged in the revenue collection department or in any 
capacity where cash transactions take place. 


Females born in this nakshatra have a well-balanced body and they will not extend their 
helping hand unless they are convinced fully that such kindness, sympathy and generosity 
are actually required. They are a little more practical minded when it comes to charity. 


Males born in this nakshatra can easily enjoy the respects and confidence of others even if 
they are financially weak.Those born under this nakshatra could suffer from complaints 
like paralytic attacks, diabetes, gastric and abdominal problems.They are spiritual, 
unattached, helpful, unknown, patient, boasting, quarrelsome and famous. 


Ascendant in Purva Bhadrapada: Philosophical nature, good speaker, strong sexual 
attraction, high strung, changes residenceoften, fond of travel, money through government, 
intent on their work, good longevity. 


The Moon in Purva Bhadrapada: Spiritual depth, teaching skill, occult knowledge, intuitive 
gifts, wealthy, clever in executing work, intelligent, scholarly, writer, cynical, witty nature. 


The moon in Purva Bhadrapada indicates a person who is passionate and transformational, 
but a little extreme and indulgent. They are idealists and non-conformists and are good 
influencers of others and speakers and orators, but they can also be fearful, nervous, cynical 
and eccentric. Often their life can be full of sadness and problems. 


The Sun in Purva Bhadrapada: Creative intelligence, detailed work, dislike routine, need 
variety, writing skill, moody nature, independent, needs seclusion. 


Career interests: Astrologer, priests, ascetics, research skills, statistician, occultists, black 
magicians, administrative planners, business skills. 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 145 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


Health issues: Swollen ankles and feet, heart problems, blood circulation, enlarged liver, rib 
troubles, sides of the legs, ulcers. 


Shadowy side: Angry, anxious and impulsive, cynical attitude, harsh communication, 
critical speech, coercing others to conform to their idealistic principles and philosophies; 
become fearful, nervous and worrisome when confronted with stressful life, wavering and 
unstable mind, stingy and miserly; pain, suffering, injuries due to falls, accidents or attacks 
can occur; appear to be two-faced to others. 


e Nakshatras- UTTARA BHADRAPADA (Latter Ha Feet)THE SCORCHING 
PAIR 
o Western star name: y Pegasi and ao Andromedae (Alpha Andromeda) 
o Lord: Shani (Saturn) 
o Indian zodiac: 3°20' - 16°40' Meena ; 
o Western zodiac 29°20' Pisces - 12°40" Aries 


Deities : Ahir Budhyana, serpent or dragon of the deep sea, Lakshmi 
Symbols: Two legs of a bed, two-headed man, twins 

Animal symbol: Female cow 

Varshodyamana shakti: power of bringing in the cosmic rains 


Back Legs of Ahirbudhnya the serpent symbolizes fertility, kundalini energy. 
death bed 


Uttarabhadrapada is ruled by Ahir Budhnya, the serpent of the depths of the Atmosphere. 
It is known as the "Warrior Star". This nakshatra spans from 3°-20' to 16°-40' in Meena. 
Uttarabhadrapada grants growth and prosperity in a broad way, benefiting the entire 
world.A person born in this Nakshatra is rich and famous,and follows the virtuous path. 
These people are the real believers in the power of knowledge. 


Anthropomorphically the sole of the feet of Kalapurush. 


Uttar-Bhaadra (The Scorching pair) Symbol — A final bed on a cot. Devata — Abhibadhnu 
(s, form of Rudra). Both Puurva-bhaadra and Uttara-bhaadra are in a pair. Puurva is the 
first part and Uttara is the second part. In both the Nakshatra the underlying idea is 
burning pain or being scorched by contact. 


In Uttara-Bhaadra although the ideas are similar to Puurva-bhaadra but in it there is 
power to control and endurance. So, where Puurva-bhaadra indicates hidden anger, in 
Uttara-bhaadra. it will indicate that there is power to control the anger. 


Abhibadhnu means death of Maayaa (Ahi). It denotes progress towards spiritual plane. In 
particular, Uttara-bhaadra denotes journey to a distant place, to go away leaving 
everything behind, renunciation, to roam about, etc. At the same time it has in it wisdom, 
knowledge and personality. 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 146 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


Uttarabhadrapada born are a loving and merciful person and always willing to reach out to 
others.They tend to make a fortune at a place far away from their place of birth. Marital 
life will be harmonious and satisfactory and children will be a source of joy and happiness. 


A male born in this sign has the basic qualities to be a good company of people, treating all 
as equal irrespective of their social status.Their behavior is extremely cordial, respectful 
and praise worthy. 


The females born in this nakshatra are charming, caring towards their family members and 
know how to manage the affairs of their house. And they will not hesitate to sacrifice even 
their life to those who love them. One who is born under this nakshatra could suffer from 
minor complaints like bodily aches and pains, rheumatism etc. 


Ascendant in Uttara Bhadrapada:Eloquent in speech, benevolent, occultist, humanitarian 
nature, happiness from children, love of family, likes unique treasures, many travels, 
writing skills, poetic, permanent enemies, fickle nature. 


The Moon in Uttara Bhadrapada: Attractive, innocent looking, virtuous, good hearted, 
service oriented, clever in speech, happy and wise, overcomes enemies, controls anger, 
happy marriage, benefits from children. 


The moon in Uttara Bhadrapada indicates a person with good discipline and speaking and 
writing skills, who is cheerful, generous, self-sacrificing and psychic with deep insights. 
They generally have good wealth and inheritance and have a happy home life; but they like 
solitude and seclusion and can be lazy. 


The Sun in Uttara Bhadrapada: Intelligent, quick-witted, creative work, peaceful nature, 
generous and charitable, mystical mind, good writing skill, diplomatic, cunning, secretive, 
hard working, soft spoken, spiritual. 


Career interests: Charitable work, non-profit organizations, import and export, travel 
industry, religious work, priests, saints, astrologers, mystical work, writers, philosophers, 
teachers. 


Health issues: food problem, cold feet, indigestion, constipation, sides of the body and legs, 
hypertension, stress disorders, allergies, liver problems. 


Shadowy side: Issues with anger, passion and aggression, secretive, cunning, tendency 
towards gossip, lazy, careless and irresponsible nature. 


Nakshatras- REVATI (The Wealthy) KEEPER OF FLACKS 


Western star name: ¢ Piscium ( Zeta Piscium) 
Lord: Budh (Mercury) 

Symbol : Fish or a pair of fish, drum 

Indian zodiac: 16°40' - 30° Meena 


o0o°0 0 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 147 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


o Western zodiac 12°40' - 26° Aries 


Deity : Pushan, nourisher, the protective deity 
Symbols: Fish or a pair of fish, drum 
Animal symbol:Female Elephant 


5 Kshiradyapani shakti: The power of nourishment, symbolized by milk 
rums 


Revati is governed by Pushan, the nourishing form of the Sun God. Revati creates 
abundance through providing proper nourishment. This nakshatra indicates a journey, and 
may in fact represent our final journey from this life to the next, being the last and final 
nakshatra. This is the last nakshatra of the zodiac, spanning from 16°-40' minutes to 30°-00' 
in Meena. A person born in this Nakshatra has amicable nature, controls his senses, 
acquires wealth by just means and possesses sharp intelligence. 


Pusa is the keeper of Cows of the Gods, causes Cow keeping and animal husbandry, 
protection and nourishing of dependants, foster-father etc. Pusa means the cherishing of 
protected people, nourishment, excellence, increase etc., material enjoyment, wealth, 
prosperity, superfluity, fatness—these are the attributes of Revati. Another attribute is that 
the native of this star advances by leaps and bounds, that it is to say by fits and starts. 


Anthropomorphically cavity of the abdomen, groins of Kalapurush. Revati: the keeper of 
flocks. Symbol — drum for beating time. Devataa — Pusha. Revati is the last one of the 
Nakshatras and is suitably regarded as the Nakshatra of Sani. 


In mythology, Pusha has character common with Agni and partly with Surya whose 
daughter he married. He is distinguished as one who guards the roads, protects man and 
animal from dangers of the roads, finds out lost animals and objects. He gives abundance. It 
rears and gives shelter. So, it has in it the ideas of Poshana — supporting, nourishing. It has 
in it an idea of foster father or one who is reared up or maintained by another. Pushaa not 
only indicates physical nourishment but also enrichment, culture or prosperity. Pushaa 
being in Miina concerns river. It indicates its progress or development in jumps. 


A person born in the Revati nakshatra is short tempered and it is very difficult to make 
them accept the view, which does not suit their principles in life. Revati born persons are 
the most God fearing and religiously much inclined. 


These people have to depend on their own efforts to make progress in life. Revati born will 
have a tendency to overburden themself with others' problems and this could cause their 
health to suffer. Marital life will be very harmonious and their spouses are very compatible. 


Females born in this nakshatra are stubborn and authoritative. They are also good at jobs 
that require repetitive skills: They may be an Ambassador or a person representing their 
country for cultural or political matters. 


Males born in this nakshatra are likely to suffer mainly from abdominal disorders. They 
will be interested in the scientific solutions, historical research and ancient cultures. Those 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 148 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


born under this nakshatra could suffer from complaints like ulcers, intestinal disorders, 
orthopaedic and dental problems. 


Ascendant in Revati: Valiant, rich, proud, leadership skills, responsible nature, attractive, 
strong and clean body, sociable, many friends, a good host, good longevity, love of travel. 


The Moon in Revati; Independent, ambitious, well-liked, wealthy, interest in ancient 
cultures, much wisdom, interest in religion and mysticism, love of pets and animals, 
courageous, beautiful, magnetic, clean, well-formed body, good marriage, success in foreign 
lands. 


The moon in Revati indicates a person who is sweet, caring, responsible and likes to care for 
other people. They are sociable and love humanity and society, and are protective and 
nourishing of others. They are devoted to loved ones, spiritual, artistic and creative. 
Disappointments in their early life creates compassion and forgiveness for others, and it is 
said that they will reap karmic rewards in the next life for their caring actions. They are 
artistic, have divine qualities, are noble, successful and well-respected in society. 


The Sun in Revati: Artistic nature, sensitive, psychic, humorous, unusual fame, interest in 
political science, law, philosophical nature, charitable, love of travel, desires change. 


Career interests: Film actors, comedians, politicians, humanitarian projects, charitable 
work, urban planners, government positions, psychics, mystical or religious work, 
journalists, editors, publishers, travel agents, flight attendants. 


Health issues: ankle and feet problems, childhood illness, insomnia, nightmares, sensitive 
nervous system, stomach problems. 


Shadowy side: Suffers from early disappointments in life and pediatric illness. Feelings of 
inferiority and low-self esteems, they overgive and then feel depleted in exchange. 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 149 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


XII MATRIMONY:COMPATIBILITY ANALYSIS OR GUNA MILAN 


In Vedic Astrology, marital life is said to be affected by the following parameters: 
- 7th house and its lord, 

- Planets having drishti on the lord of the 7th house, 

- Planets located in the the 7th house, 

- Venus for males, because it represents wife and 

- Jupiter for females because it represents husband. 


12 factors for matrimonial alliance, out of which first 8 are important: Horoscope 
compatibility is judged by points, known as kuta. These points are calculated by taking into 
account the position of Moon in both the charts. Moon in a person’s chart represents the 
emotional aspect, his/her personality and capacity to care about other people. 


1) VARNA 2) VASYA 3) DINA (TARA) 4) YONI RASHYADHIPAT 6) GUNA 7)RASI 
(SHAKUTA) 8) NADI 9) MAHENDRA 10) STREE-DREEGA 11) RAJJU 12)VEDHA. 


The main factors considered on the basis of the moonsign for matching or horoscopes are : 


(spiritual or ego development) — 1 point allotted for this. It indicates the spiritual 
development and maturity of the soul. In the Hindu religious system society is categorized 
into four castes depending on their duties namely Brahmins, Kshatriyas, Vysyas and 
sudras. 


The rashis are classified as follows : 


Brahmins : Pisces, Cancer and Scorpio 
Kshatriyas : Aries, Leo and Sagittarius 
Vysas : Taurus, Virgo and Capricorn 
Sudras : Gemini. Libra and Aquarius 


It is considered to be the best that the Bridegroom and the bride belong to the same varna 
and it it is -different then the varna of the bridegroom should be superior to that of the 
bride. 


2.Vasya (Magnetic control and amenability) — 2 points are allotted for this. Here again the 
rashis are divided into three categories — 


- Nara Rashis( two legged) — Gemini, Virgo, Libra, Sagittarius, first part and 

Aquarius 

- Chatushpada Rashis( four legged) : Aries, Taurus, Leo, Sagittarius second part and 
Capricorn 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 150 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


- Jala Rashis(water) — Cancer, Scorpio, Pisces 


It is favourable if both the bride and groom belong to the same varga and then the other 
things come in. This suggests the magnetic control or amenability the husband or wife 
would be able to show each other. 


3.Graha Maitri or Rasyadhipati ( Psyhchological disposition, mental qualities and affection 
) 5 points are allotted for this in this the relationship between the lords of the janma rashis 
of the two people are concerned as friends, neutrals and enemies. 


This is supposed to deal with the psychological dispositions of the couple, their mental 
qualities and their affection for each other. 


4. Rasi Kuta — For this 7 points are allotted, in this the distance between the janma rashis of 
the bridegroom and the bride is considered. When the bridegroom’s janma rashi from the 
bride’s janma rashi is in Ist,7th,8th, 9th,10th or 12th then full 7 points are given. If it is in 
2nd ,3rd,4th,5th or 6th then no points are given. 


5. Dina kuta or Tara Bala — 3 points are allotted for this, the nakshatra of the bridegroom is 
counted from that of the bride or vice-versa and divide the number by 9. If the remainder is 
1,3,5,7 then no points are given. If from one side favourable and from the other side 
unfavourable, then give 1’4 points. 


In Dina kuta the couple’s health and family happiness is indicated. 


6.Yoni Kuta — 4 points are allotted to this and this implies bodily physical contact or sexual 
compatibility. All the 27 nakshatras have been assigned certain animals for Male and 
female. Marriage between Nakshatras indicating same class of yoni and between the male 
and female constellations of that yoni is said to be conducive to great happiness, perfect 
harmony and progeny. 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 151 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


7.Gana Kuta — 6 points are allotted to this, this seems to have an important bearing on the 

compatibility of temperament and character of the couple concerned. Astrologically, three 

ganas( temperament) are recongnized i.e Deva (divine), Manusha (Human) and Rakshasha 
(diabolic). 


Dev gana — Ashwini, Mrigshira, Punarvasu, Pushya, Hasta, Swati,Anuradha, Sravana and 
Revathi 

Manushya Gana — Bharini, Rohini, Aridra, Poorvaphalguni, Uttaraphalgni,Poorvashada, 
Uttarashada,Poorvabhadrapada and Uttarabhadrapada. 

Rakshasha Gana — Krittika, Ashlesha,Magha, Chitra, Vishakha, Jyestha, Moola, Dhanishta 
and Shatabisha 


8. Nadi Kuta — 8 points are allotted, this aspect signifies the pulse or the nervous energy 
indicating the physiological and to a certain amount of hereditary factors. The three nadis 
enumerated are Vatha (wind), Pitta (bile), Sleshma (phelgm), these are given nomenclatures 
as Adi, Madhya and Anthya respectively. 


If the Nakshatras of the bridegroom and the bride fall in different rows, then the agreement 
between the couple will be good. 


Kuta without points 


9. Mahendra Kuta: 
Blessings in the married life; Well-being; Longevity 


Principle: If the Girl is born in the 4th Nakshatra from that of the Boy, it is Mahendra; if 
she is born in the 7th, it is known as Upendra. Mahendra gives wealth and Upendra gives 
children. Many say that nakshatra of the boy counted from that of the girl (both inclusive) 
should be 4", 7", 10, 13", 16, 19", 22" or 25". This promotes well being and increases 
longevity. 


10. Stri Deergha: 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 152 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


Long life to the Husband 

Principle: The male Nakshatra should be beyond 9" from the girl; some say more than 15 
stars away from that of the female. If that is not so, long life of the male is not supported. 
Other factors like Navamsa have to be considered. 


Rider: This consideration can be ignored if Rasi Kuta and Graha Maitri is there.. 


11. Rajju Kuta: This indicates the strength and or duration of married life. The Asterism 
can be classified into 5 categories namely: 


Rajju Body part | Nakshatra group Indications if the Janma 
nakshatra falls in the same Rajju 
Kantha Throat Rohini, Ardra, Hasta, Swati, 
(neck) Sravana, Satabhista Widowhood — death of wife 
Kati Waist Bharni, Pushya, Purva 
Paalguni, Anuradha, Purva Poverty 
Ashada, Uttara Bhadrapada 
Pada Feet Ashwini, Ashlesha, Magha, 
Jayestha, Moola, Revati Wanderer or distant traveller 
Siro Head Mrigashira, Chitra, Dhanista | Husband’s death 
Kukshi Navel Kritiaka, Punarvasu, Uttara 
(Nabhi) Phalguni, Vishaka, Uttara Loss of children 
Phalguni, Purva Bhadrapada 


This Kuta need not be considered if the kutas of Rashyadhipati, Rasi, Dina(Tara) and 
Mahendra match. 


12. Vedha: 


Vedha means afflictions and it causes obstacles in married life. 
Principle 1: The following pairs affect each other. Nakshatra of the couple should not fall in 
the vedha group as mentioned below. 
- Aswini and Jyeshta; 
-Bharani and Anuradha; 
-Krittika and Visakha; 
-Rohini and Swati; 
-Aridra and Sravana 
-Punarvasu and Uttarashadha; 
- Pusayami and Purvashadha; 
-Aslesha and Moola; 
-Makha and Revati; 
-Purvaphalguni and Uttarabhadrapada; 
-Uttaraphalguni and Purvabhadrapada; 
-Hasta and Satabhisha, 
-Mrigasira and Dhanishta. 


Principle 2: Even if there is other agreement such as Vasya, etc., Vedha will prevail. 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 153 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


MANGAL DOSHA 


Rishi Parashara, in his Brihat Parasara Horasastra, chapter 81, verse 47 said the following: 
"If Mars is placed in the Lagna, 12th, 4th, 7th and 8th houses, without any aspect or 
conjunction of the benefic planets, the husband of such a woman will certainly have an 
early death." So it is clear that if Mars has the aspect or association of a benefic, there is no 
dosha. It must be noted that in the very next verse, verse 48, he gave the other important 
exception as follows: "The yoga in which a woman takes birth and becomes a widow, if a 
male takes birth, he also becomes a widower. If a woman with the widowhood yoga marries 
a man with similar yoga, such yoga will be cancelled." So the 2nd exception given by him is 
that this feared dosha is cancelled if both the girl and the boy have mangal dosha. 


Presense of Mars in houses 1, 4, 7, 8, and 12 usually causes dosha. However, like all other 
rules, this rule exceptions too 


No Dosha for Leo and Aquarius signs and/or Lagnas, 

No Dosha when Mars is in 2nd house, in the signs of Gemini and Virgo, 

No Dosha when Mars is in 4th house, in the signs of Aries and Scorpio, 

No Dosha when Mars is in 7th house, in the signs of Cancer and Capricorn, 

No Dosha when Mars is in 8th house, in the signs of Sagittarius and Pisces signs 
No Dosha when Mars is in 12th house, in the signs of Taurus and Libra 


Apart from that, some of the exceptions are: 

- Association of Mars with Jupiter and Saturn in certain cases cancels the dosha 

- Retrograde mars does not cause dosha. 

- A weak mars (e.g. combust, situated near rashi sandhi) loses ability to cause dosha. 


What is Mangal Dosh? 


When Mars is located in any of the houses 
shown in the horoscope, the horoscope is 
said to have "Mangal Dosh". i.e. if Marsh is 
in first house, fourth, seventh, eighth or 
twelfth house person is having "Mangal 
Dosh". 


What is Mangal Dosh? 

When Mars is located in any of the houses shown in the horoscope, the horoscope is said to 
have "Mangal Dosh". i.e. if Mars is in first house, fourth, seventh, eighth or twelfth house 
person is having "Mangal Dosh". 


Why is it considered as a drawback during marriage?Mars affects the 4th, 7th & 8th house 
from the house in which it is placed. This is called "Mangal Drushti". 


Mars is a planet which is representative of fire, electricity, chemicals, weapons, aggression, 
high energy, blood, fight, accident etc... Let's see what are the repercussions of Marsh 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 154 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


located in these houses. Whichever house it is located or has its drushti, effects of Mangal 
are experienced in the aspects of life represented by that house. 


1) Ist house: if Mars is placed in the Ist house it will affect 4th, 7th & 8th house in addition 
to 1st. 1st house represents the personality of the person, hence person may be very short 
tempered. 4th house represents the house, vehicles of the person, hence there is a possibility 
of problems associated with house & vehicle e.g. accident due to fire, chemicals, electricity 
etc...7th house represents the Marital Life, spouse & business in partnership, hence there is 
a possibility of turbulent married life, spouse may be of very hot tempered nature, loss in 
partnership etc... 8th house represents death, sudden monetary gains etc... hence there is a 
possibility of fatal accident to the person. Of course these are very broad guidelines. Many 
other angles need to be studied like the overall quality of the horoscope, power of the 
planets, aspects of the planets etc... 


2) 4th House: If it is placed in the 4th house it will affect 7th, 10th & 11th house in addition 
to 4th house. We have seen effects on 4th & 7th house. 10th house represents career, father, 
sleep etc... hence there is a possibility of frequent changes/disturbances in the career, sleep 
disorder, issues with father or even early death of father etc... 11th house indicates the 
monetary gains in life, hence there is a possibility of losses due to accidents, theft etc... 


3) 7th House: Mars in 7th house affects 10th, 1st & 2nd house in addition to 7th. 2nd house 
is the house that gives the idea about the wealth of the person. It indicates the family of the 
person & it is also the 8th house from 7th house indicating death of the married 
life/business in partnership. Hence Marsh drushti on this house can create issues among the 
family members, there is a less harmony among the members due to short tempered & 
aggressive behaviors. So also there are chances of loss of money. 


4) 8th House: It affects 11th, 2nd & 3rd house. 3rd house represents brothers & sisters of a 
person, the verbal communication skills, voice of the person, achievements of the person. 
Hence Mars might create tensions among siblings, person may be very rude & arrogant in 
speaking, might hurt others quite often & may suffer more failures than successes. 


5) 12th House: Mars in 12th house affects 3rd, 6th & 7th house. 12th house indicates the 
spending nature of the person. Hence person may be of over spending nature. 6th house 
indicates diseases, thefts due to servants, maternal uncle etc...person is likely to have 
diseases caused due to acidity, hyper tension, blood diseases etc... 


Thus you will observer that if the Mars is troublesome in these houses which affect the 
married life substantially. Hence horoscope with Mangal Dosh is treated unsuitable. 


What precaution is to be taken while checking the position of the Marsh in the horoscope? 
First & foremost the horoscope MUST be "Bhavachalit Kundali" & not the genaral Lagna 
Kundali. 

It is advisable to consult an expert Astrologer in taking decision in case of Mangal Dosh. 
Under what circumstances the "Mangal Dosh" is not considered "Dosh"? 

If Mars is "Neech" i.e. in Cancer 

If Mars is in the enemy house i.e. in Gemini or Virgo, 

If Mars is "Astangat" extinguished i.e. near Sun. 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 155 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


If Mars is in Aries in 1st house 

If Mars is in Scorpion in 4th house 

If Mars is in Capricorn in 7th house 
If Mars is in Leo in 8th house 

If Mars is in Sagittarius in 12th house. 


Under what circumstances Marsh is treated as Mild? 


If Mars is receiving drushti from any "Shubh" planet i.e. Jupiter, Venus, Moon & 
g y p 


Mercury, it is treated to be a mild "Mangal". 


What situations in the horoscope of the spouse is treated as matching with the horoscope 


having "Mangal Dosh"? 


If the horoscope of the spouse has any of the following star positions, it is complementary to 
the person having "Mangal Dosh" & hence the two can be considered to be match for each 


other. 


If Saturn is in Ist, 4th, 7th, 8th or 12th house. 


If Saturn is affecting 7th house with " 3rd or 10th Drushti" i.e. if Saturn is in 5th or 10th 


house. 


If Powerful Jupiter (In Cancer, Sagittarius, Pisces or Vargottam, Uchcha Navamansh or 
swanavamansh etc...), or Powerful Venus (in Pisces, Taurus or Libra or Vargottam, 
Uchcha Navamansh, Svanavamansh etc...) is placed in 1st house, 

If 7th house is affected by Jupiter's 5th or 9th drushti i.e. Jupiter is placed in 3rd or 11th house. 


If Rahu or Ketu is located in Ist or 7th house 


Under what circumstances the "Mangal 
Dosh" is not considered "Dosh"? 

1.1f Mars is "Neech" i.e. in Cancer 

2.If Mars is in the enemy house i.e. in 
Gemini or Virgo, 

3.If Mars is "Astangat" extinguished i.e. 
near Sun. 

4.If Mars is in Aries in Ist house 

5.If Mars is in Scorpion in 4th house 
6.If Mars is in Capricorn in 7th house 
7.1f Mars is in Leo in 8th house 

8.If Mars is in Sagittarius in 12th house 


However, like all other rules, this rule 
exceptions too. 

1.No Dosha for Leo and Aquarius signs 
and/or Lagnas, 

2No Dosha when Mars is in 4th house, in the 
signs of Aries and Scorpio, 

3.No Dosha when Mars is in 7th house, in 
the signs of Cancer and Capricorn, 

4.No Dosha when Mars is in 8th house, in 
the signs of Sagittarius and Pisces signs 
5.No Dosha when Mars is in 12th house, 
in the signs of Taurus and Libra 


Apart from that 


1. Association of Mars with Jupiter and Saturn in certain cases cancels the dosha 


2. Retrograde mars does not cause dosha. 


3. A weak mars (e.g. combust, situated near rashi sandhi) loses ability to cause dosha. 


Under what circumstances Mars is treated as Mild? 
If Mars is receiving drushti from any "Shubh" planet i.e. Jupiter, Venus, Moon & 


Mercury, it is treated to be a mild "Mangal". 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 156 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


What situations in the horoscope of the spouse is treated as matching with the horoscope 

having "Mangal Dosh"? 

1. If the horoscope of the spouse has any of the following star positions, it is 
complementary to the person having "Mangal Dosh" & hence the two can be 
considered to be match for each other. 


2. If Saturn is in Ist, 4th, 7th, 8th or 12th house. 

3. If Saturn is affecting 7th house with " 3rd or 10th Drushti" i.e. if Saturn is in 5th or 
10th house. 

4. If Powerful Jupiter (In Cancer, Sagittarius, Pisces or Vargottam, Uchcha 


Navamansh or swanavamansh etc...), or Powerful Venus (in Pisces, Taurus or 
Libra or Vargottam, Uchcha Navamansh, Svanavamansh etc...) is placed in 1st 


house, 

5. If 7th house is affected by Jupiter's 5th or 9th drushti i.e. Jupiter is placed in 3rd or 
11th house. 

6. If Rahu or Ketu is located in 1° or 7th house. 


There is a school of thought that says Manglik Dosha is not required: 


1. If there is a condition associated with marriage, e.g. the way Rama and Sita, Arjun 
and Draupadi got married. 

2. If the girl is kidnapped and subsequently married. 

3. If the girl’s father gives away his daughter willingly and lovingly. 

4. If the girl herself proposes to a guy then it is not necessarily required to match the 


charts for Manglik Dosha. 

In case of remarriage. 

6. If the girl has crossed the age of 30 years, then a lot of attention should not be given 
to manglik dosha. 

7. For a man above 50 years of age and for a woman 45 and above 


v 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 157 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


XIII CLASSICAL JYOTISH / VEDIC ASTROLOGY 
TREATISES/BOOKS/TEXTS 


Treatises on Nativity 


Skanda Hora or Jyotishmati(God Brahma) 

Brihat Prajapatya (Daksha Prajapati) 

Leghu Prajapatya (Daksha Prajapati) 

Vasishta Hora (Sage Vasishta) 

Garga Hora (Sage Garga) 

Kousika Hora (Sage Viswamitra) 

Sounaka Hora (Sage Sounaka) 

Brihat Parasara Hora Sastram (Sage Parasara) 

Surya Hora or Surya Jatakam or Suryaruna Samvadam (Sage Surya) 
Jaimini Sutram (Sage Jaimini) 

Brigu Sutram (Sage Brigu) 

Vedanga Jyotish (Lagadha) 

Yavaneswara Hora or Yavanajataka (Sage Yavaneswara) 
Vishnugupta Hora (Vishnugupta, also known as Canakya) 
Satyacharya Hora (Satyacharya) 

Jeevasarma Hora (Jeeva sarma) 

Srutakeerti Hora (Srutakeerti) 

Sidhasena Hora (Sidhasena) 

Maya Hora (Maya) 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 158 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


Sphujudwaja Hora (King Sphujidwaja) 
MeenarajaHora or Vridha Yavana Hora (King Meenaraja) 
Saravali (Kalyana Verma) 

Brihat Jatakam (Varahamihira) 

Phala deepika (Mantreswara) 

Hora Saram (Prithu Yasas) 

Sarvartha Chintamani (Venkatesa Daivajna) 
Hora Ratna (Acharya Balabhadra) 

Jataka Parijatam (Vaidyanatha Deekshita) 
Chatkara Chintamani 

Kashyapa Hora 

Poorva Kalamritam (Ganaka Kalidasa) 
Uttara Kalamritam (Ganaka Kalidasa) 

Suka Nadi 

Deva Keralam or Chandra Kala 

Tajaka Neelakanthi (Neelakantha) 
Pranasanushata Padhati 

Prasna Ratna 

Prasna Margam (Panakkattu Sankaran Nambootiri Brahmin) 
Daivajna Vallabha (Varahamihira) 
Kaalaprakashika 


The Yavanajataka (Sanskrit for Saying (Jataka) of the Greeks (Yavanas)) is the earliest 
writing of Indian astrology. ... 


Treatises on Hindu Electional Astrology 


Adbhuta Sagaar 

Brihannarad 

Brihatdaivygyaranjan 
Brihatjyotisaar 
Daivygyamanoranjan Daivygyamanohar Granth 
Ganak Mandan 

Gian Manjari 

Hindu Electional Astrology (V K Shridhar) 
Jaganmohan Granth 

Jyotiprakash 

Jyotirnibandh 

Jyotish Ratan 

Jyotishsaar 

Jyotish Chintamani 
Jyotirvidabharnam 

Kaal Khanda 

Kaal Nirnaya Deepika 

Kaal Prakashika 

Madhaveeyam 

Muhurtarnava 

Muhurt Bhaskar 

Muhurt Chintamani (Daivygya Ram) 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 159 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


Muhurt Darpaan 
Muhurt Deepak 
Muhurt Deepika 
Muhurt Ganpati 
Muhurt Kalpadrum 
Muhurt Maala 
Muhurt Manjari 
Muhurt Martanda 
Muhurt Muktaavali 
Muhurt Prakash 
Muhurt Padavi 
Muhurt Saagar 
Muhurt Sangraha 
Muhurt Tattva 
Muhurt Tattvapradeep 
Muhurtarnava 
Rajmartanda 
Ratan Koosh 
Ratanmaala 
Samarsaar 

Shiv Swarodaya 
Vaivahaar Pradeep 
Vivah Kautuhal 
Vivah Patal 

Vivah Pradeep 
Vivah Saar 

Vivah Vrindavan 
Vyvahaarochchya 
Yoga Yatra 
Vyvaharsaar 
Muhurtha malya 


Samhitas — treatises on mundane, portents, omens, meteorology etc. 


Brahmarshi Samita 
Brihaspati Samhita 
Brihat Samhita 
Parasara Samhita 
Garga Samhita 
Rishiputra Samhita 
Guru Samhita 
Kashyap Samhita 
Lomasha Samhita 
Naagarjun Samhita 
Narad Samhita 
Shakalya Samhita 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 


Samaas Samhita 
Samhita Pradeep 
Samhita Sidhhanta 
Satya Samhita 

Sur Samhita 
Vaikhaan Samhita 
Vasist Samhita 


ASTROLOGY PART II 


160 


Garga Samhita (The narrations of Garga) is a book written by the sage Garga and deals 


with the life of Krishna. 


Siddhanta — Astronomy and Mathematics and its application to 


astrology 


Ancient Surya Sidhata (Maya) 

Brahma Sidhanta (God Brahma) 
Lomasa Sidhanta (Sage Lomasa) 
Poulisa Sidhanta (Sage Poulisa) 
Pitamaha Sidhanta (God Brahma) 
Vasishta Sidhata (Sage Vasishta) 
Vridha Vasishta Sidhanta (Sage Vridha Vasishta) 
Garga Sidhanta (Sage Garga) 

Parasara Sidhanta (Sage Parasara) 
Pancha Sidhantika (Varaha Mihira) 
Modern Surya Sidhanta (Aryabhata IT) 


Barat, Laura 
Behari, Bipin 
Behari, Bipin 
Blavatsky, H.P. 
Charak, Dr. K.S. 
Fawley, David 
Goel, Vijay 


BIBLIOGRAPHY 
Bhrigu Sutras 
Brihat Jataka 


Brihat Parashara Hora Shastra 


Chamaktar Chintamani 
Gagra Hora 
Hora Sara 
Jataka Alankar 
Jataka Parijatak 
Madhya Parashari 
Phaladeepika 
Samhita Skandam 
Saravali 
Satya Jataka 
Utarakalmritam 
21* Century Vedic Astrology 
An Introduction to Esoteric Astrology 
Myths and Symbols of Vedic Astrology 
The Secret Doctrine 
Elements of Vedic Astrology 
The Shaktis of Nakshatras 
500 Yogas combination in Vedic Classic Astrology 


PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY THROUGH THE NIRAYANA SYSTEM : REFERENCE TO HINDU VEDIC 
ASTROLOGY PART II 


Kumar, Krishna Shadvarga 

Patel, C.S. Nadi Astrology 

Patel, C.S. Navamsha, the Searchlight 

Patel C.S. The Use of Navamsha in Astrology 
Pathak, K.K. Astrology and Professions 

Patri, Joni Eastern Astrology for Western Mind 
Raman B.V. Three Hundred Important Combinations 
Rao, K.N. Astrology, Destiny & The Wheel of Time 
Rath, Sanjay Vedic Remedies in Astrology 

Roebuck, Valerie J. The Circle of Stars 

Sathanam, R. Deva keralam 

Subhakaran, K.T. Nakshatra Based Prediction 

Sutton, Komila The Essentials of Vedic Astrology 


Encyclopedia Jyotisha (Nation Master.com) 
Websites 
Astro Vaidya.com 
Astrojyoti.com 
Encyclopedia Jyotisha (Nation Master.com 
www.dirah.org 
www.lightonvedicastrology.com 
www.soothsayers-india.com 
www.astrocopia.com 
www.komilla.com 
http://www.astrologiavedica.com/html/yantra.htm 
vedic.indiastro.com 


161 


