K.B's 
APPLICATIONS 
OF CUSPAL 
INTERLINKS 


GENERAL STUDY PART -1 


Author: 
Prasanna Jothidamani 


K.BASKARAN 
( Late S/o Shri.S.Krishnan Naidu ) 


CONTENTS 
1. Acknowledgements...................cc0::eee XV 
Zie “TAWOCUBOME ten son8 ie tect Soret oencttonsseyauamatees: 1 
1G Eom =) 1] 9 Sea ae ee Eg ge oem ees ee 3 
4> “PHNGIDICS 2.06. oreemae ee teeue 6 
re em 2 @) 6) | [o> (9 | 9 Venere een eee ens ra erence eer eRe? 10 
6... (PIANGIS cag eek Adare oie er ot 11 
Poe HUIS OS as st se Oats Masao 3s aE Be de 14 
S.  “POlGntalS 2.1 estes aces wen vaxtenscesien ake 15 
9. Ascendant Potential.................ccceeee 16 
10. Dasa Potential.......00.... ee ceeeneeeees AT 
i leo c= (a =) | ene ee ere oP eae OE RE 18 
12. The Basics for Studying a Horoscope ...20 
13. About this Book.................0. cece eee ees 34 
14. Abbreviation..............0...ccccccccssssseeeseeeeeees 35 
Oe GENEDICl Sisciesvy el sat clviae accutane aes or 
TS: “RO ACTONS gr vedsciedet sce ptearesten siisieueoeiciad: 106 
V7 ONGII SION 25: Shertundcucsostuutieidorptadslaneds 117 
Pz Wh: FAOUSS seit 2s te tenisicue se tiee eats hoseats 120 
TOs NU TOUS S crass cact tae sce aos ted ear dubdads 166 
BOW IVE TAOUS Cisiy couisaclgeade ucSotadedodetp bateectens 202 
Ble IIOUSEt: .zctasheiie ietahaeceionachinieadewens 239 


OUR SINCERE 
THANKS TO 


shriS. P.KHULLAR, 1.1.5 


RETD. G.M; TELECOM 
NEW DELHI 


In Formatting This Book 


Vi 


Shri VALAMPURI JOHN 
“ SANDHANAM “* 


| have the privilege of knowing Shri 
K.Baskaran of Madurai, for a few years. | have 
watched him making good predictions through his 
wonderful system of Interlinks theory in Modern 
Astrology which has its roots in the well known 
Krishnamoorthy Pathathi method of Sublord theory 


He has propagated hundreds of interesting 
points to substantiate his conviction that only the 12 
cusps with their interlinks are responsible to carry out 
the events in one's life rather than the planetary 
significations as many of the traditional astrologers 
believe. 


| am sure that this work will be well received 
in the world of astrologers of the new Millennium as a 
useful tool for successful predictions. 


| wish Shri K.Baskaran all the very best in his 
keen research works in this field. 


01.01.2002 VALAMPURI JOHN 
CHENNAI 


Vil 
Sri Maha Ganapathaye Namaha 


Dr. D.G.R.Sharma 


FOREWORD 


Astrology has deep roots in the history of 
mankind and we hear many success stories of 
the ability of the astrologers to predict the future 
events with great precision. However, for every 
successful prediction that we hear, there are 
many dozens of inaccurate predictions. Then 
we hear that in addition to the knowledge of the 
rules of astrology (| do not know how many 
hundreds are there), one should have divine 
grace to give predictions. If it is based on 
divine grace, then the doubt arises whether it is 
a scientific method. 


While, | was interested in astrology only 
as a bystander, a few years ago | had an 
opportunity to meet Sri K. Baskaran of Madurai 
and get exposed to the enchanting world of 
astrological predictions. In fact, with his 
guidance, | was able to make accurate 
predictions for the simple questions like "When 
can | meet a person?" and to the more advanced 
questions like "What is the nature of disease?" 


Vill 
etc. His method is unique and the rules are much 
simpler. He blended the concepts of Kalapurusha 
Thathva and the Placidus system of house 
divisions elegantly into his basic theory of Cuspal 
Inter Links. When one applies cuspal interlinks 
directly, one is bound to meet situations where 
the same planet is connected to more than a 
single cusp. This gives rise to "complex effects". 
Death of child on the day of inauguration of a 
new house, birth of child and death of mother, 
etc., are examples well known to all of us. The 
cuspal links, which cause such effects, are clearly 
brought out by studying compound links and | 
think this prompted him to bring out the present 
book. 


Mr Baskaran is a person who is willing to 
share his knowledge unlike many others. With 
his love for the subject of astrology, his years of 
experience in studying and carrying out research, 
he has written this excellent book " Applications 
of Cuspal Interlinks" | had an opportunity to 
go through this book and | see that he has 
presented such a complicated subject in a very 
lucid manner by taking a sample horoscope. 
While the possible number of combinations is 
extremely large, the style of presentation helps 
one to evaluate new cases with confidence and 
develop explanations for new combinations and 
situations. 


IX 
/ am very confident that this book, 
along with its previous two companion 
books, is going to be a handy reference 
book for all serious students of astrology 
who are interested in giving accurate 
predictions. | am confident that this book 
will certainly get the same great reception 
from fellow astrologers as his previous 
books did. 


Mr. S.Gnanasambandan who is also a 
personal friend of mine, deserves all the praise 
for doing a great job of translating the text into 
English. 


Kajang, Malaysia. Dr. D.G.R.Sharma. 
21 January, 2002 


Om Mahaganapathaye Namaha 
TO THE READERS 


Shri A.R.BALAN 


Madurai -625 011. 
Friends, 


We have just entered into the new 
millennium with new questions and challenges 
placed before astrology. This science of 
futurology, has to prove its validity and 
credibility as with any other science. The 
science of calculation in astrology was made 
to perfection by Prof Shri K.S.K. But still 
something was required to be appended as 
astrologers have been facing certain difficulties 
in predictions with the usual significators. 
Some of them even went to the extent of 
substituting with the tradition based ideas for 
predictions. But, Shri K.Baskaran, with his 
faithful study, has proceeded for solutions to 
complicatedand complex questions of modern 
day life with the use of Cuspal interlinks based 
on the prime concepts of Prof Shri K.S. 
Krishnamoorthyto evolve a new and novel 
system of astrology as "Krishnamoorthy - 
Baskaran" (KB system). 


Xl 
| feel proud about my disciple Shri 
K.Baskaran all the time, and this present work 
is really going to glitter as a jewel in the crown. 
He has indeed opened a floodgate for all the 
modern thinking astrologers to delve in 
gleefully to quench their thirst in this great 
science. It is my desire now to request all the 
dear readers to take up and carry on with this 
research work for the benefit of humanity in 
general. Itis with great appreciation that | must 
herewith record about the support, suggestions 
and able guidance of Mr S.P.Khullar in the 
format of this book. 


! should also appreciate the efforts 
of Shri S.Gnanasambandan, Senior 
Announcer, AIR, Madurai and Shri J.Rama 
Subramaniam for their commitment in 
bringing out this translation work. They have 
properly understood the inner meanings of 
what Shri K.Baskaran intended to say and 
elaborated the same according to the point 
of view of readers. | pray God Almighty to let 
the spirit of this team to continue in all their 
future efforts. 

Good luck. 


1.06.2002 
Madurai-11 Shri A.R.Balan, 


Xl 
NOTE OF TRANSLATORS 


Dear friends, 

Astrology is amidst the’ recent 
controversies for its possible inclusion as a 
branch of study in universities. It has been 
condemned by its critics as an act of saffronizing 
the education system with Hindu 
fundamentalism. If we know what had happened 
to other empricial sciences, we ourselves would 
not demand for such a dogmatic inclusion of 
Astrology as a subject of study, as it could only 
defeat the very purpose and the significance of 
astrology. 


But our concern here is the science- 
worthiness of astrology as rightly questioned by 
its critics. Though it is painful to admit, it is a fact 
that the present day astrology could never 
withstand before the specifications for 
deeming it as a science. Even if Astrology could 
succeed in finding a place as a faculty of study 
in universities due to the political patronage that 
it may possibly gain, we don't believe that the 
traditional astrologers would be generous enough 
to award due credit to Shri R.Gopalakrishna 
Rao(Meena) & to the Jothida Marthand Shri 
K.S.Krishnamoorthy. What is more painful to 
us is the fact even the so called followers of Shri 
K.S.K have not rendered due justice to his 


Xill 
teachings. "The objectives are often defeated 
when they are institutionalized", is the prime 
propogation of Shri J.Krishnamoorthy, the 
popular philosopher of our times. Unfortunately 
this was what had happened also to the 
teachings of Shri K.S.K,. The non-availability of 
calculators and computers and lack of needed 
proofs to withdraw courageously and 
scientifically from the remains of a set of 
traditional concepts like aspects, retrogression 
etc., have limited Prof K.S.K., to leave certain 
shortcomings in his methodology. 


Only in this context, Shri K.Bhaskaran, 
the author of this book, is to be appreciated for 
his contrubitions for the enlightenment of the 
teachings of his guru, Shri K.S.K by innovating 
the theory of “Cuspal Interlinks", At this 
moment, we feel really very proud for being the 
associates of this unique astrological work, 
"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks". We are 
aware that this book would stand as a milestone 
in the history of astrological researches. There 
were a few such attempts, in the footsteps of Late 
‘Shri K.S.K,. The basic differernce between such 
earlier attempts and this book lies in the 
scientific, the complete and the rational approach 
in applying the principles of astrology with the 
use of “Kaalamsas or Sublords". 


XIV 


After the release of the previous book, 
"Principles of Cuspal Interlinks", there were 
a few murmurs by a set of KP followers who 
preferred to show themselves as the saviours of 
the sanctum sanctity of KP system rather than 
upholding it as a system of science. We believe 
that the god of times would make them to accept 
and realize the contributions of Shri 
K.Bhaskaran, in the times to come. We are 
confident that the readers would find this book 
as a completely different and thoroughly useful 
one on astrology. 


Good Luck 
Madurai: 
01.06.2002 


S. GNANASAMBANDAN, J. RAMA SUBRAMANIAM, 
JAWAHAR 


. XV 
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS 


Om Mahaganapathaye Namaha 
OM gurubyo Namaha 


1 would like to thank Shri. 
T. Ramesh kumar, Mother 
mera Publications, 
Madurai, for providing me 
with this golden opportunity 
in bringing out this book on 
"Applications of Cuspal 
interlinks". 


| have my special regards 
to my Guru Shri A.R.Balan, who has moulded 
me with the inner meanings of astrology. | convey 
my thanks to Shri S.Gnanasambandan, 
Senior Announcer, AIR, Madurai & Shri J.Rama 
Subramaniam, Madurai for their efforts in 
translating this book from its Tamil original. 


| should also thank Shri Maharishi 
Dayananda Jyothi the author of the leading 
Tamil Monthly on astrology, "Gnana Sinthamani” 
and its readers for their response to my articles 
on astrology. | would like to convey my sincere 
thanks to Shri C.Subramaniam, Editor, "Jothida 
Bhoomi”, also a leading Tamil Monthly on 
astrology for the publication of many of my 
articles. | must thank Shri Valampuri John, 
former MP, a great Tamil scholar and a renowned 


XVI 


——— 
astrologer for providing me a valuable foreword 
to this book. | thank Prof A.Vaithiyalingam, 
Salem, and his students for providing me 
platforms to share my research experiences. 

Above all, | am highly thankful to Shri 
S.P.Khullar |.T.S., Retired GM, Telecom, New 
Delhi, for his useful Suggestions in Formatting 
this book. But for his helps, | could not have 
dreamt about publishing this voluminous book. 
He has indeed helped us by posing more number 
of doubts and suggestions to add more simplicity 
to this book. 


Of course, | should also thank my parents, 
wife, children, brothers, sisters, relatives, friends 
Especially Shri. Dr. D.G.R. SHARMA Of 
Malasyia,Shri.S.GNANASAMBANDAN Air 
Madurai, Shri K.A.D.SARAVANARAJ Dindugul. 
and Shri. BALASUBBARAMANI (vasiyoki) 
Madurai, and STUDENTS for their timely help 
and Financial Assistance without which | could 
not have completed this book. 


. Good luck to all 


Madurai 
1.06.2002 K.Baskaran 


"Applications of Cuspal interlinks” 


OM MAHAGANAPATHAYE NAMAHA 
INTRODUCTION 


In geometry, only one straight line is 
possible to connect any two points. Thus 
science finds out the simplest way of doing things. 
What makes a science to deem it as a science? 
Whereever be and whenever be, an experiment 
carried by whomsoever be, the result ought to 
be one and the same everywhere. Philosophy 
with different logics, tries to detail the "Cause and 
Effects". Is astrology a Science or a Philosophy? 
Though it contains certain elements of 
mathematics, astrology uses different logics for 
predictions: In astrology, on a few occassions, 
4+4 may not become 8. Since there are multiple 
and complex parameters, astrology is made to 
depend more on intutions rather than on a 
scientific perception. Hence, astrology is forced 
to be a subject with certain limitations. 


While we, the astrologers wish to call it 
as an occult or empirical science, we forget to 
realize the shortcomings in calling it so, because 
of the usage of different ayanamsas, planetary 
positions, methods of calculations, inferences of 
Yogas and Doshas, references to exceptions, 
preferences of aspects etc., Unless we agree 
to an uniform method of casting an horoscope 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks” 


by adhering to a similar set of principles, 
astrology could never be recognized as a 
science. 


It is worthwhile to mention here an 
occassion in which the Government of India, 
through the Ministry of Human resources & 
Development, had attempted to singularise 
almanacs and to bring out a commonly 
accepted and a scientifically credible one. After 
lengthy discussions for more than a reasonable 
period, astrologers of different schools failed to 
successfully meet with the demand of the 
Government. It shows the attitude of Indian 
astrologers towards common interests. So, it is 
mandatory to seclude the scientific elements of 
astrology from the myths of faiths and 
spiritualism. Though it may take decades to 
compile and uphold the meaningful studies in 
astrology, we must, at least ensure that we are 
in that direction. In the process to improve the 
scientific contents in the philosophy of astrology, 
first of all, we must adhere ourselves to 
uniformity in 


a) Casting a horoscope 
b) Identifying a set of rational principles 
c) Applying the said set of principles. 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks” 
CASTING 


In casting a horoscope, western astrology 
begins and ends with the 12 signs, based on the 
transit of Sun. It takes the births between the 
dates 22 nd March and 21 st April of every year 
as included in one and the same sign, ARIES. 
Whereas the Hindu traditional astrology confines 
to its own classification of 12 Signs or Rasis to 
distinguish every horoscope with the other. The 
Drik-kanitha followers, to multiply the scope of 
distinctions, included the calculations of precise 
beginings of the Bhavas, the Cusps. For example 
in "Deva Keralam”, a traditional Nadi astrology 
work, we can find the tools to divide a Lagna, 
i.e., the Ascendant with a span of approximately 
two hours, into 150 parts as "Soorya Nadi & 
Chandra Nadi" etc. The difficulty in following 
"Deva Keralam" is the lack of specified 
applications of these Nadi divisions to charts. The 
“Kaalamsa” method of Late Shri R.Gopalakrishna 
Rao (Meena) and the Krishnamoorthy Pathathi 
method of Sublords, respectively extended the 
scope of divisions by including the principle 
of the "Bhukthi / Antara periods, i.e., the 
proportionate divisions of the 9 planets 
according to UDU MAHADASA, to identify the 
planetary positions and to precisely fix the cuspal 
beginings. 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks” 


There are 12 Houses/Signs in Zodiac. 
At the time of each birth, we actually mark 
that point of Zodiac that is rising 180 degrees 
in the east, as Ascendant to that particular birth. 
Even for the same time of birth on a particular 
day, it gets varied according to the latitudes and 
longitudes of the places of birth and even forthe 
same place it varies with every 10 seconds 
(Space & Time to specify the uniqueness). 


As an ascendant SIGN, the Lagna, a new 
Sign/Rasi would appear approximately in every 
2 hours; A new star would appear ag the star of 
Lagna in about every 50 minutes; A new Bhukthi 
(Kaalamsa or Sublord) would appear in every 
6 Minutes; A new antara (Subsub) would 
appear in every 50 seconds. "How precise that 
we are going to measure an Ascendant", is the 
factor that would ultimately decide the 
accuracy of a horoscope. 


If we confine ourselves only to the Sign/ 
Rasi of the Lagna/Asc, then from the following 
example, we can see for ourselves as how it 
becomes unscientific. 


Rabindranath Tagore is a great Indian poet 
and a nobel prize winner of the 20th century. 


“Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 


Date of B rth: 07.05 1861 
Time ofbi th 0251 A.M 
Place of Birth: Calcutta (22 35 N; 88 23 E) 


TAGORE'S 


HOROSCOPE 


If we presume that he Lagna is the only 
factor to decide the "unique poetic excellence" 
of Poet Rabindranath, then all those who had 
their bith betwe n 0217 a.m to 03 48 a.m on 
the same day, same place or correspondingly 
with the other places must have had the same 
ability of excellence Hence, the method of 
considering the sign of "Lagna" alone as the 
factor to decide, could not be a rational and 
scientific one. 


Here comes the signif cance of stellar 
astrology. Identifying the planetary movement in 
relation to the immovable stars in the background 
is what we call as stellar astrology. Thus Zodiac 
has been reclassified for study with the use of 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks” 6 


27 stars. The use of stars was later extended to 
identify the Lagna/Asc. Though the stellar 
classification is an advanced version while 
compared to Rasi/ Sign classification, it 
still required something to be complemented with. 
Only at this juncture, the use of “Kaalamsa/ 
Sublord" gains significance. For a 
comprehensive study, the subsub (Antara) 
details of the remaining 11 Cuspal beginings would 
also be required. 


The ephemeris used by the modern 
astronomers and the Placidius System of cuspal 
divisions, as per the Newcombe's ayanamsa 
remain as more scientific in casting horoscopes. 
To avoid controversies, | would like to reserve 
my comments regarding the shortcomings of 
various schools of astrology in arriving the much 
needed accuracy of casting horoscopes. 
| request the readers to kindly refer my earlier 
book on this subject," The Secrets of Birth Time 
Rectification and RPs". 


PRINCIPLES 


While studying the logics of astrology, the 
differences in interpretations are numerous and 
are self-contradictory. Sometimes, exceptions are 
more in number than the principles, since our 


“Applications of Cuspai tnterlinks” 7 


ancestors in their Granthas, as in the cases of 
Indian traditional Medicines, had given the 
derivations only in capsules leading to 
ambiguity. They have not unfolded the logics 
behind such derivations. With the dead fishes, 
one could never predict the size and shape of 
the net or the rod that was used in fishing. 


Any principle to survive in times, must 
be simple and rational. Complexities would lead 
only to confusions. The Karaka significations 
of planets and the bhavas as detailed in the 
traditional granthas are simple and rational. The 
description of the Kalachakra (The Zodiac) by 
the Hindu traditional astrology is a noteworthy 
one. Hence, by identifying the reliable 
information from our traditional astrology, Jothida 
Mannan Late Shri K.S.Krishnamoorthy, 
Chennai, had advocated a set of principles. As | 
felt that, some of these principles are to be 
enriched as suited to our present times, | have 
camed on the same by explaining the objectives 
and the logics behind these sceintific 
principles, in my second book, "The Principles 
of Cuspal Interlinks”, brought out by Sagar 
Publications, New Delhi. 


| would like to list ihe meanings of a few 
words that would often be used hereinafter in this 


“Applications of Cuspal_Interlinks” 8 


book, so as to assist the readers in proceeding 
further. 

a) CUSP: By cusp, we mean the 
beginning point of a bhava/ house, {SIGN, 
STAR, SUB & SUBSUB positions of Zodiac} 
derived as per the Placidius system and 
according to the latitude of the place of birth and 
the accurate time of birth. 


b) SUB (Kaalamsa) (Bhukthi): One of the 
9 parts ofa star, due to anyone of the 9 planets 
according to their due proportion of UDU 
MAHADASA. A star is of a fixed length, i.e., 800 
Minutes of arc and is ruled by a planet. Each 
star is further divided into 9 parts. The ruler of 
the first part is the ruler of the star itself and the 
successive rulers are as per the sequence in 
Vimsottari dasa rulers. The length or the range 
of each part is calculated by dividing the period 
of every star, i.e., 13 Deg 20 Min or 800 Minutes 
in the same proportion of years allotted to the 
rulers in the total span of 120 years of Vimsottari 
Dasa. Each part is called as a Bhukthi or a 
Kaalamsa according to Shri.R.Gopalakrishna 
Rao (Meena) or "Sub" according to Prof. 
K.S.Krishnamoorthy. The lord of this "Sub" is 
known as "SUBLORD". For example, the range 
of the sub ruled by the planet Sun will be 
equal to 6*800/120=40 Minutes and that of Moon 


"Applications of Cuspal Inte links" 
will be equal to 10*800/120= 1 D6M 40S. 


c)SUBSUB (Antara): One of the 9 parts 
of a Sub, due to anyone ofthe 9 planets as per 
their ratio of UDU MAHADASA. {as above for 
the "SUB"} 


d) CUSPAL INTERLINKS: 


Type A: The link of a Kaalamsa (SUB) of 
a cusp to the remaining 11 cusps, through its 
STAR/ SUB/ SUBSUB lords. 


Type B: The link of the lords of Kaalamsas 
(Sublords) of the other 11 cusps, which are 
either in the Star or in the Sub or in the Subsub 
of the Kaalamsa lord or sublord of the concerned 
Cusp under study. 


e) RULING PLANETS: 


i)The SIGN, STAR, SUB, SUBSUB Lords 
of Asc & the planet Moon at the time of study: 


ii) The planets that rule the moment of 
event or the planets that rule the question under 
study, are called as "Ruling Planets". For 
example, if a person asks a question about his 
marriage, then the sublord of the relevant cusp 


"Applications of Cuspal Inte links" 10 


for marriage, i.e., the 7th cusp, is deemed as the 
house that rules his query. Hence the sublord of 
the 7th cusp becomes a ruling planet. 


APPLICATIONS 


This book, "APPLICATIONS of CUSPAL 
INTERLINKS" attempts to provide details of the 
applications of a set of scientific principles of 
astrology, i.e., Cuspal Interlinks, to a particular 
horoscope which was cast scientifically. 


This book relies on the prime conception 
that every horoscope is unique in itself. Place 
{Latitudes and Longtitudes} and Time are the two 
different factors to identify the unique distinction 
of a horoscope. From the time of origin of 
Homo-sapiens, to this day {or till the DAY of 
JUDGEMENT, as believed in certain religions}, 
we can never identify a pair of similar horoscopes. 
Hence to analyze a particular chart, we have to 
accumulate our concern on the factors that would 
constitute the uniqueness of that chart. 


PLANETS: 
In Traditional Hindu astrology, they 


believed that only the planets become the 
factors of differentiation. The residential strength 


"Applications of Cuspal Inte links" 11 


of a planet (Shadbalas), its aspects, the aspects 
that it gains from the other planets, the Karakas, 
the Yogas and the Doshas resulted by the 
occupations of the planets in different signs 
or Bhavas, the movements of planets like 
retrogressions, Asthamanams etc are studied 
in detail with numerous rules and their inherent 
exceptions to provide us with varied results. 
But let us study how this belief fails before 
rational way of analysis. 


It is a traditional belief that the planet 
Saturn, when itis in the 8th house would call for 
dangers. Saturn could be in the 8th house for 
8.33 % of natal horoscopes of 6 billion persons, 
who are currently living in our globe. If we 
believe that only the planets are the deciding 
factors of constituting the "uniqueness" of a 
horoscope, then we can check the same through 
the example chart of Rabindranath Tagore. 


ii) In Tagore's chart, Sat is in Leo; Jup in 
Cancer; and Rahu in Sagittarius. Ketu would 
always remain at 180 degrees opposite to the 
position of Rahu. Sat, Jup and Rahu takes 30, 
12 &18 years respectively for a full cycle; The 
LCM of 30, 12 & 18 would be 180 years. That 
means, approximately, in every 180 years, we 
may derive similar rasi charts and the world has 


"Applications of Cuspal Inte finkss 12 


to see similar Tagores and Geetanjalis. {On 
11.9.2215 at 1830 hrs, a similar chart could be 
prepared} Will it be a rational way of 
understanding astrological principles? There 
could only be one Mahatma, one Buddha, one 
Prophet Mohammed, one Tagore, one Newton 
and only one Kavi Bharathi in the entire span of 
human history. 


iii) Let us imagine that we have to shoot 
with a rifle, ata mark placed just a few meters 
away from us; even a little shake of our fore- 
arms would deviate the angle; And.even this 
minor variation in angle, though the distance is 
reasonable, would leave us in missing the 
target. But, our tradition-bound friends believe 
that the aspects of the planets like Jupiter and 
Saturn would fall for an entire span of 30 
degrees of a sign (i.e., 8.38% of the space), and 
that too after crossing a distance of a few million 
kilometres. 


iv) Shadbalas are the strengths gained by 
a planet through its Nature (Naisargika Bala), 
Position (Sthana Bala), Direction (Dig Bala), 
Motion (Chesta Bala), Aspects (Drik Bala), 
House (Bhava Bala), and Time (Kala Bala) 
alongwith their Istha (Benefic) and Kasta 
(Malefic) Balas. But please remember that these 


‘Applications of Cuspal_Interlinks" 13 
rules, unscientifically, presume the span of 30 
deg of a sign as a single unit. 


v) What do we mean by Yogas and 
Doshas ? Yogas are the favourable positions 
ofthe planets and doshas are the unfavourable 
ones. Both these are mostly defined with the use 
of residential signs of planets. Once again a sign 
as a whole is taken as a single unit. 


vi) Planets could never retrograde. 
Retrogression is only an apparent event, a 
relative measurement only to the motion of our 
earth. It has nothing to do with our predictions. 


But study of the significations or karakas 
of planets, according to their cuspal linkage, could 
serve better for the purpose. It is true that in 
staging an incident, every planet has its own 
way and style of presentation. But they are NOT 
empowered to decide the nature and course or 
to say, the potential to ensure an incident. Hence 
the use of karakas of planets are to be confined 
only to the minute variations in colours and tastes 
of any event. The significations {Karakas} of 
CUSPS alongwith their interlinks alongwith the 
current DBA periods are the ones that decide 
the nature and the actual timing of an event. 


"Applications of Cuspal Iterlinks” 14 
CUSPS: 


Our ancient Granthas have provided with 
more than a few hundred karakas (Significations) 
for every house. | would advocate to divide these 
karakas into two, i.e., 


i) according to their degree of relation to 
the Asc, since the other 11 cuspal points are only 
the abstract extensions of the Asc. The prime 
50% ofthe significations of each house is bound 
only with the ascendant, i.e., the native himself. 


ii) Atthe same time, every Bhava or Cusp, 
with its relatively independant significations from 
Asc, would react on the remaining 11 Bhavas or 
Cusps. 


Thus every house acts on the other 11 
houses while it receives reactions from the other 
11 houses at the same time. 


1. Imagine that Moon is the II cuspal 
sublord. It transits in the star of Mars, the cuspal 
sublord of say, 4 & 6, and in the sub of Rahu, the 
cuspal sublord of say, 8 & 12. Now, the II house 
is said to be linked with houses 4, 6, 8 & 12. 


This linkage is used for finding the 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks” 15 


timings of the events as assured by the houses 
4,6,8& 12. (Action of the Il cusp as an agent 
for4, 6, 8&12) 


2. Some planets may transit in the star 
orthe sub or the subsub ofthe planet Moon. 
For example, presume that the planets 
Jupiter, Saturn and Mercury are either in the 
star or the sub or the subsub of Moon. 
Supposing that 5, 7, 9 &11 are the cusps to 
which the planets JUP, SAT and MER are the 
sublords, then these cusps would act on the II 
house or to say in other words, the II house is 
supposed to receive reactions from the cusps 
of 5,7, 9&11. 


POTENTIALS 


Now we have two different tools in our 
hands to study a horoscope. 


a) Significations of planets to "colour "an event. 


b) Significations of cusps alongwith their 
baggage of interlinks to decide the nature and 
the timing of an event. 


How do the cusps alongwith their interlinks 
function to decide the nature and course ofan 
event? They act according to their potential; If 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 16 
so, what do we mean by "Potential"? 


A. ASCENDANT POTENTIAL : 


Every ascendant sublord would transit in 
a star, sub & subsub and would act accordingly 
to its star/ sub/ subsub lords. While the star 
draws into an involvement, the sub stands either 
positively or negatively to such an involvement. 
Some times, we can also replace the star with 
the sub for involvements and the sub with the 
subsubs for deciding the nature of favour. Thus 
Asc is bound with certain cusps. If the star of 
the Asc sublord does commit with the 5th cusp, 
then naturally the person would be fond of 
music or sports. Thus to become a musician 
{Permanent Nature}, one's Asc has to maintain 
a cuspal linkage with the 5th cusp. This is called 
as the potential ensured by the Asc, THE FATE. 


The same principle could be extended 
to arrive at the respective potentials of the 
remaining 11 houses, but only to their relatively 
independant matters. Houses 1,{ 3 & 11, the 
Vrithisthanas} & {5and 9, the Kona Sthanas}to 
a cusp would favour the functioning of the 
concerned cusp. Houses 4, 7, 8& 12to a cusp 
would block the favourable functioning of the 
concerned cusp. Houses 2, 6 & 10 to a cusp 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 17 


would stand neutral to the functioning of the 
concerned cusp. (Please refer the chapter, "The 
Inner Thread", in my earlier book, "Principles of 
Cuspal Interlinks") 


B.DASA POTENTIAL : 


A dasa would be owned by anyone of the 
9 planets; this planet must be transiting in a 
Star, Sub, Subsub. The Starlord, Sublord and 
Subsublord of this planet, may be appearing as 
the lord of Star, Sub & Subsub to certain other 
cusps also. Now the Dasa is bound to certain 
cusps through its lords. These cusps would 
naturally permit certain beneficial events and 
would defeat certain others. Thus, the Dasa 
carries a favourable or unfavourable weightage 
to provide a particular set of results to the client. 
This is called as Dasa potential or THE MIND. 
The word Dasa means the direction. Thus Dasa 
drags a client to a particular direction through 
its potential. 


For example, the capacity of the engine 
fixes the driving specifications of a vehicle 
regarding power, speed etc. This is the Asc 
potential. But the vehicle can be driven only if 
there is fuel of the right type. This is the dasa 
potential. However, the fuel can only drive the 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 18 


vehicle with the power and the speed to its 
engine capacity i.e., dasa can only lead to 
results subject to the limits of the Asc potential. 


C. TRANSIT : 


Gochara, (Gadhi) or Transit, the current 
stellar positions of the concerned planets, i.e.,the 
Dasa lord, the Bhukthi lord, the Antara lord and 
the Sookshma lord stand as the third dimension 
of predictions. 


For predicting an event, we need to study 
the following: 


1. Whether the event is promised or 
not ? FATE (as per cuspal interlinks ) 


2. Whether the Dasa, Bhukthi, Antara 
& Sookshma of the relevant cusps are in 
operation? MIND 


3. Whether the transit of lords of Dasa, 
Bhukthi, Antara, Sookshma & the lfuminiaries 
Sun & Moon favour the event? 


The Asc potential is the potential in 
principle which specifies the quantum and the 
quality of one's life. Though the Dasa potential is 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 19 


the means and the source to tap the Asc 
potential, it is the Transit that gives the final green 
signal for the execution of the above. 


To explain it broadly, we may assume that 
we have a car which can be driven, say upto a 
maximum speed of 150 km/h. Suppose we have 
two drivers who have the respective capability 
and confidence to drive the car 


a) Only upto 100 km/h or 
b) Upto 200 km/h 


In the first case the car, though has the 
potential to be driven upto 150 km/h., yet is 
being driven only upto 100 km/h due to the 
potential of the driver. 


In the second case though the driver has 
the potential to drive the car upto 200 km/h, yet 
the speed is limited only to 150 km/h due to the 
engine potential of the car. 


Assuming that both the carand the driver 
have the potential to drive upto 150 KM/h but if 
the road is uneven or is facing obstructions from 
the traffic, the car cannot be driven to its fullest 
potential. This is what we call the role of the 
transit. 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 20 


The Asc potential is the foundation or 
platform on which the flight of fortunes or 
misfortunes is constructed by the Dasa 
potential. 


For a comprehensive study, we need both: 
but remember that both these potentials are 
inseparably tied together with their cuspal 
interlinks. Asc potential is like the subject of a 
book; Dasa potential is like the style and the 
flow of the language used to portray the said 
subject. Style without a subject would stand 
as dross: Subjects lacking artisitic styles, would 
end as dry wines. Likewise, Asc and Dasa must 
and would always complement each other. 


THE BASICS FOR STUDYING A 
HOROSCOPE 


1. Check the accuracy of the given birth 
time with the use of Ruling Planets. 


Readers would have had miserable 
experiences from varied predictions by different 
astrologers. Answers to a specific question and 
reasons fora specific event are often misjustified 
due to lack of rational applications and 
comprehensions. Every horoscope is unique in 
itself. To ensure the uniqueness, the correlations 


"Applications of Cuspal_ Interlinks" 21 


of a natal chart with the ruling planets are 
required to be studied. This correlation could be 
found in two ways. 


1. The ruling Moon position is to 
correspond with the birth Ascendant & the 
ruling Ascendant is to correspond with the birth 
Moon position. 


2. The present Moon position is to 
correlate with those houses of study (as per the 
recent questions of the client) 


For example, if the client puts a question 
regarding his profession, naturally, the Moon is 
expected" to transit either in the star or 
sub(Kaalamsa) or subsub of the 10th cusp of the 
natal chart. 


Lack of anyone ofthese pre-conditions 
could lead us to failures in predicitions. 
Subsequently, the natal chart may require 
minor corrections and alterations according to the 
ruling planets. For a detailed study of making 
birth time rectifications, 
the Readers are suggested to refer my first book 
on astrology, "Secrets of RPs and the Birth 
Time". 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 22 


2. Instead of misadventures due to 
overconfidence, it is better to gather past events 
to correct the birth time. Even in pathology, for 
successful diagnosis of diseases, the past 
informations of symptoms from the patient are 
called for. With this information, fine tune all the 
12 cusps upto subsub level with the use of given 
facts. Remember that even for the same Asc 
subsub, though it may last only for a few 
seconds (for example Venus subsub), there is a 
possibility of erecting at least 4 to 5 different 
charts. 


3. Decide the Ascendant potential : 


Note down the Asc sublord.Now note 
down the starlord, sublord & subsublord of the 
Asc sublord. These three lords might be 
appearing as star, sub & subsub lords of 
different cusps also. List these cusps. If they 
are 1, 3, 5, 9 & 11 to the Asc then things would 
become favourable. Ifthey are 4, 7, 8 & 12, 
then things would become unfavourable. 2, 6 & 
10, being neutral, would require more efforts of 
the native or assistance from the society to 
render him favours. 


4. Potential of the remaining 11 houses. 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 23 


Please note down the sublords of the 
remaining 11 houses. In the same method used 
for finding the Asc potential, the natal potentials 
of the remaining 11 houses could also be 
derived. These potentials could be used in two 
ways. 


i) For example, the 5th sublord is Jupiter 
which is in the star and sub of Mercury, which is 
the sublord of houses 2, 4 & 10. Now the 
significations of Jupiter becomes 2, 4 & 10 or to 
say 10, 12 & 6 to the 5th house. It is an 
unfavourable potential to the 5th house. 


ii) What is this 5th house going to render 
to the Asc? Through its potential of 2,4 & 10, the 
5th house, with its karaka of arts and culture 
would enable the native to gain money (2), to 
acquire properties (4) and to lead a successful 
profession (10). Hence the natal potential of the 
5th house is unfavourable to itself but may favour 
the materialistic life of the Asc as it contains the 
potential of 2, 4 & 10 with it. 


5. Note down the potential of the current dasa. 
Note down the Dasalord. Find the cusp 


or cusps, wherein the Dasalord has appeared 
as lord of the cuspal star or the sub or the subsub. 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 24 


The dasalord has to act for the above cusps 
during this current dasa. 


Now note down the starlord, sublord & 
subsublord of the dasalord. These three lords 
might be appearing as star, sub & subsub lords 
to different cusps. List these cusps. If they are 
1,3,5,9&11 to the prime significations of the 
dasalord, then things would become favourable. 
Ifthey are 4, 7, 8 & 12, then things would end in 
vain. Houses 2, 6 & 10 would demand more 
efforts on the part of the native to earn favours. 


Supposing that the dasa Jord is not the 
lord of the star or the sub or the subsub of any 
cusp, then the said dasalord would act commonly 
to all the 12 houses. The same rule could also 
be extensively used for bhukthi, antara and 
sookshma lords. 


6. In the following pages it has been 
suggested to study the star or the sub ofa planet 
to determine and to ascertain the potential. In 
transit, slow moving planets like SAT, JUP, RAH 
and KET take more than a month to cross a "sub". 
Hence for the slow moving planets it is better to 
study the "sub" for involvements and the "subsub" 
for confirmation. For the remaining fast moving 
planets, it is better to stick to the system of 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks” 25 
studying the "star" for involvements and the "sub" 
for confirmations. 


7. If it is for a general study of a 
horoscope, begin to study from the Asc and the 
longevity. If it is for a specific study, look only into 
those houses that are related to the question. 
Asc and Dasa potentials would lead to the 
prospects. 


8. Questions under study could generally 
be classified into two categories, for example., 


a) Will | get back the money? 
b) When will | get back my money? 


Readers could easily note the difference 
between the above two questions. The first one 
doubts the occurrence itself whereas the 
second question requests the timing of the 
event with the presumption that the event is 
certain to occur. This classification should be kept 
in mind while giving predictions. 


9. i) Prospects to a cusp are to be studied 
through the sublord of the said cusp. Its starlord, 
sublord and subsublord would decide the 
prospects. 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 26 
EX: a) Will | getback the money? 


Note down the sublord of the 12th cusp 
If it resides in the star or sub of 1,5, 8 & 9, then 
the person could never dream about getting back 
his money. {fit is in the star or sub of 2, 4, 6 & 
10, he is going to get back the money. 
Likewise, only when things are assured, we can 
proceed to time the event. 


ii) To time an event, note down those 
planets, that reside in the star, sub & subsub of 
the cuspal sublord under study. 


Ex: b) When will | getback the money? 


Find the planets which are in the star or 
sub or subsub of the sublord of the 2nd cusp. 
From the above list, we have to omit the planets 
that are linked to 5, 8 & 9, the unfavourable 
houses of the 2nd house. The money can be 
recovered only during the combined DBAS 
periods of the favourable planets. 


10. Here comes a problem. For the 
matters of money transactions, who will carry 
more weightage? the Dasa lord? or the Bhukthi 
lord? or the Antara lord? or the Sookshma lord? 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks” 27 


i) For matters of fixed nature, we have to 
look for the potential of the Dasa. 


Ex: Life & Longevity, Family, Love and 
affection, Personality and Satisfaction through 
various walks of life are to be studied only through 
Dasa. 


iit) For matters of fairly frequent in nature, 
we have to study the Bhukthi Potential. 


Ex: House, Lands, Vehicles, Marriage, 
New ventures and Status are to be studied only 
through Bhukthi periods. 


iii) For matters of common or repetitive in 
nature, we have to study the Antara potential. 


Ex: Temporary diseases, disturbances, 
court cases, stress and pain, commission and 
brokerage, worship, pilgrimage, foreign trips, 
investments, borrowings and loans are to be 
studied through Antara periods. 


iv) For the matters that begin and end 
within a span of a few days, Sookshma should 
be considered. 


Note*: Readers need not be dogmatic and 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 28 


rigid in following the above as they are only 
basic suggestions. 


1. However, for any significant event to 
happen, the potential of Dasa, Bhukthi, Antara & 
Sookshma alongwith the transit must remain 
either favourable or neutral. 


2. The Sookshma cannot supersede 
the Antara while the Antara cannot supersede 
the Bhukthi and the Bhukthi cannot supersede 
the Dasa. For example, if the Antara is totally 
unfavourable to long journey, the sookshma, 
though it is highly favourable, will not permit the 
planned long journey. 


Or to say in other words, native would 
enjoy only those significations of the Bhukthilord 
in its bhukthi, which are not negated by the 
Dasalord. On the reverse, the Dasalord, to carry 
on its personal agenda would await for a 
favourable or a neutral Bhukthi. 


11. Venus would be the 7th cuspal sublord 
to anyone in a set of nine horoscopes. Venus 
would transit in its own stars for at least 27 days 
in awhole year. People who have had their birth 
either in Mercury or in Ketu star, would face 
Venus dasa during their teenage periods. If so, 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks” 29 


can we come to a conclusion that all of them 
would get married during the Sookshma period 
of Venus, in its own DBA and in this 27 days 
transit period?. It could not be so, as it would 
again defeat the concept of uniqueness. 


i) The sub in which the VII sublord Venus 
is actually in, at the time of birth, would decide 
the prospects for marriage and the married life. 
{Potential of the chart} 


ii) All those planets which are in the star 
or sub of Venus, are expected to favour the 
marriage. All these planets have to appear as 
the lords of the Dasa, Bhukthi, Antara and 
Sookshma, so that the event of marriage of the 
native is unique in nature, with the combination 
of karakas of all those planets who have a link 
for marriage. {Dasa potential} 


iii) The Transit would add further colour 
and variety to the occasion. 


In application of Cuspal Interlinks, the 
derivations are possible only through the 
planets. After all, it is the DBAS periods of a 
planet or planets that would ultimately guide the 
day-to-day routines alongwith the major events 
of ones life. 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 30 


All the 9 planets are acting continously on 
all of us. A planet has two ways to act. It derives 
a commitment from the natal chart. Say, for 
instance, Jupiter is the 5th sublord in a chart. 
Jupiter resides in the star and sub of Mercury, 
the sublord of houses 2, 4 & 10. Now, the planet 
Jupiter would always carry 2, 4 & 10 with it. 
Hence, during Jupiter Dasa, in a period of 16 
years, the native would be able to enjoy the 
combined effects of the houses 2, 4 & 10. 


But what about the remaining cusps and 
their effects. Will they remain dormant for the 
entire span of 16 years? They would come to 
stage at a time when the Dasalord Jupiter 
transits in the stars of the respective cuspal 
sublords. 


Let us assume that the planet Jupiter 
transits in the star of Saturn, the 7th sublord. Now 
what would happen? With its baggage of 2, 4 & 
10 or to say 8,10 & 4 to the 7th house, the planet 
Jupiter would cause for unexpected troubles and 
dissatisfactions in married life to the life partner 
of the native. Hence with its 2, 4 & 10 the planet 
Jupiter, would give varied results during its DBA 
periods, according to its transit. For example, 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks” 31 


ASC: 


VI: 


ALL: 


Materialistic favours and mental 
dissatisfactions : (2, 4 & 10 to Asc) 
Materialistic benefits (1,3 & 9 to Il) 
Problems in writings and break in short 
journeys, Quarrels with younger brother 
and father-in-law (12, 2 & 8 to Ill) 
Accumulation of properties through 

own money (11,1 & 7 to IV) 

Health problems to the first child, 
Saturation in artistic interests 

(10,12 & 6 to V) 

Ability to obtain loans and easy success, 
Co-operation from servants 

(9, 11 & 5 to VI) 

Accidents to wife, Dejections of the 
business partner (8,10 & 4 to VII) 

Gains to the partner, Savings of wife 
(7,9 & 3 to Vill) 

IlIhealth of the father or second wife, 
Problems in foreign journerys 

(6, 8 & 2 to IX) 

Smooth sailing in professional life 

(5, 7& 1 to X) 

Dissatisfactions in life (4, 6 & 12 to Xl) 
Secret plans, Favours from investments 


‘Applications of Cuspal_Interlinks" 32 
etc., (3,5 & 11 to XIl) 


Thus a single planet, at the same time, 
acts on all the 12 houses. In reverse, all the 9 
planets would act on the same house at the same 
time. Only when all the 12 houses and the 9 
planets combinedly act for an event, be it a daily 
routine or a major event of our life, it 
matures into a reality. 


CUSPS: For example, presume that we 
have decided to meet a person on a particular 
day at a particular time. What are all the 
subsequent questions that would arise? 


1. Are we going to meet him? (I Bhava) 
2. Is he going to come to meet us?(VII Bhava) 
3. Where is the venue of our meeting? 
Our office? (IV Bhava) 
or his residence? (X Bhava) 
4. What do we wish to communicate? 
(IX bhava) 
5. What does he wish to negotiate? (Ill Bhava) 
6. What do we gain out of this meeting? 
(Il bhava) 
7. What does he gain? (VIII Bhava) 
8. Will the talks be fruitful? (V & XI) 


"Applications of Cuspal_Interlinks" 33 
9. Who would force the meeting to fail 


(VI or XIl) 


If the person is unable to come to meet 
us, then cusps 2 & 8 are said to be in operation. 
A communication from our friend to postpone the 
meeting would be received if 3 & 9 are in 
operation. During the course of meeting we may 
taste groundnuts and a cup of coffee (6) ; But 
he may prefer cashewnuts and a cup of tea 
(12); We may pick him up in our car (4); He may 
drop us in his motor-bike (10); We might have 
satisfied him (5) or he might have satisfied us 
(11); Thus all the 12 houses through the 
planets, stand to matter for each and every 
moment of our being. Using a single bhava or a 
single planet to predict an event would mean 
that we are perfunctory in our approach and that 
would lead us to end in vain. 


PLANETS: For example, let us presume 
that two parties are meeting in a negotiation 
table. Sun, the karaka planet for legal validity of 
such a meeting, Moon, the karaka planet for the 
duration of such a meeting, Mars, the karaka 
planet for the areas of disputes, Mercury, the 
karaka planet for the phases and schedule of 
talks, Jupiter, the karaka planet for mutual trust 


“Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 34 


between the parties, Saturn, the karaka planet 
for unexpected failures and dejections in the 
process of negotiations, Rahu, the karaka planet 
for traces of doubts in the minds of the parties, 
and Ketu, the karaka planet forthe inner 
criminal motives and the intentions to cheat the 
other, must find appropriate docks with cusps so 
as to ensure success out of the meeting. 


ABOUT THIS BOOK 


In this book on "APPLICATIONS of 
CUSPAL INTERLINKS", there are three parts. 


Part 1. General Study of a Horoscope 
This would be required for a complete and 
total study of a chart, when there is no specific 
question from the client. 
Part 2. Specific study of a Horoscope 
There may arise situations to study the general 
trend on 
i) Health & Longevity 
ii) Finance & Fortunes 
iil) Marriage & Children 
iv) Dwellings, Vehicles and Properties 
v) Profession & Status 
vi) Higher education 
vii) Foreign Journeys etc,. 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 35 


These questions are to be studied 
combinedly with the relevant set of houses and 
thus would naturally carry complexity. 


Part 3. Horary study 
Study of a Horary chart for specific 
questions when the natal chart is unavailable. 
ABBREVIATIONS USED IN THIS BOOK 
ARE AS BELOW ; 


BT... BIRTH TIME 
DOB... DATE OF BIRTH 
POB... PLACE OF BIRTH 

ST... SIDEREAL TIME 
SUN ...SUN 
MOO... MOON 
MAR... MARS 
MER... MERCURY 
JUP... JUPITER 
VEN... VENUS 
SAT... SATURN 
RAH... RAHU 
KET...KETU 

AY...AYANAMSA 

LA... LATITUDE 

LO... LONGITUDE 


" Applications 


IST... 


LMT... 

TC.. 
ASC .. 
SGL.. 
STs 
SBL... 
SSL. 


PLA... 


DAS... 
DBA... 
BHK... 
ANT... 
SOO... 
YMD... 


HMS... 
DMS... 
GP... 
LVP... 


SG & AC... 
L/B... 
P/W/H.!.. 


Nl... 
W/H... 
PCI... 


of Cuspal Interlinks" 36 


INDIAN STANDARD TIME 
LOCAL MEAN TIME 


.TIME CORRECTION 


-ASCENDANT 


SIGN LORD 


STAR LORD 

SUB LORD 

SUBSUB LORD 

PLANET 

DASA PERIOD 

DASA, BHUKTI, ANTARA 

BHUKTI PERIOD 

ANTARA PERIOD 

SOOKSHMA PERIOD 

YEAR, MONTH, DATE 

HOURS, MINUTES, SECONDS 
DEGREES, MINUTES, SECONDS 
GHATIKAS, PALAS 
LANDS,VEHICLES,PROPERTIES. 
SPORTS,GAMES,ARTS,CULTURE 
LIFE/BUSINESS PARTNER 
PARTNER/WIFE/HUSBAND 
NEGOTIABLE INSTRUMENTS 
WIFE/HUSBAND 

Principles of Cuspal Interlinks 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 37 
{GENERAL STUDY} 


Let us now try to learn the methodology 
of the general study of a horoscope with the 
following example. Due to the differences of 
various ayanamsas, in softwares and in systems 
of casting horoscopes, there may be some 
minor variations in the planetary positions and 
the cuspal divisions. Hence let us confine 
ourselves with the following example to learn only 
about the methodology. 

CHART 
CHAPTER | 
STUDY OF ASCENDANT 
(Please refer to the Example Chart) 


In studying the Ascendant-dependant 
matters of every house, first of all, it is 
mandatory to assess the potential of the 
ascendant before analyzing the strength of any 
house. Note the starlord of the sublord of each 
cusp and study its position of favour to the asc 
and not to themselves. Only to the matters of 
their own entity, the position of favour is to be 
studied to themselves. 


Personal capacity to think and act, gain 
or loss of energy, attraction, pleasures and 
character are the prime significations of the | house, 
the Asc. 


“Applications of Cuspai Interlinks" 38 


DATE 75 1 1964 

DAY : SUNDAY 

TIME :3 Hrs. 57 Min. 36 Se 
PLACE : BODINAYAKANCOR 
STATE : TAMIL NADU 
COUNTRY > INDIA 

LAT, :10 01 N 

LONG. ;f7 48E 
AYANAMSA 123 20 37 

DASA BAL SUN 7:4 Y.104D 

ENDS ON +18 4 1968 


13 10 26 


we aes ‘Vill 61135 
153457 |] Vil 125203 | pay oe 


SAT 27 2921 


VEN 214107 X = 1310 26 
URA* 16 32.22 


CUSP S DM S$ SGL STL SBL SSL 


El a 


ASC 8 125203 MAR SAT MAR MOO 
end 9 11 3516 JUP KET MER MER 
sd. 10) «11 25 14 SAT MOO MAR SAT 
4th 11 131026 SAT RAH MER VEN 
sth 12 1526 10 JUP SAT JUP MER 


“Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 7 

6th 1 153457 MAR VEN SUN SUN 
2 125203 VEN MOO RAH MER 
3 1135 16 MER RAH SAT SUN 

9th 4 11 2514 MOO SAT MOO JUP 
5 13 1026 SUN KET MER SAT 
6 1526 10 MER MOO JUP RAH 
7 1534 57 VEN RAH VEN VEN 


ane ee ee ee ee eee 


ee a 


PLAN S DM §S SGL STL SBL SSL 


SUN 9 2016 01 JUP VEN JUP JUP 
MOO 6 00 28 41 MER SUN RAH KET 
MAR 10 00 09 52 SAT SUN RAH MER 
MER-R 9 19 27 41 JUP VEN RAH VEN 
JUP 12 1746 15 JUP MER MER RAH 
VEN 10 21 41 01 SAT MOO VEN JUP 


SAT 10 27 29 21 SAT MAR JUP MOO 
RAH 3 1/7 48 28 MER RAH SUN SAT 
KET 9 17 48 28 JUP VEN MAR MER 
URA-R 5 16 32 32 SUN VEN MOO RAH 
NEP 7? 2356 16 VEN JUP MER MER 


FOR 4 23 04 43 MOO MER MOO KET 


a ee ee ee ee ee 


| 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 40 
SUN DASA18 4 1962 TO 18 4 1968 


cose eee ey See eee ee ee ees eee 


RAHU BHK 5 17 1964 TO 6 5 1964 
JUP BHK 6 5 1964 TO 24 2 1965 
SAT BHK 24 2 1965 TO 6 2 1966 


ee EP re ee ee i rt 


4 
2 
| 
3 1971 TO 18 7 1972 
SAT BHK 18 7 1972 TO 18 2 1974 
2 1974 TO 18 7 1975 
7 
2 
0 


ee i 


‘Applications of Cuspai Interlinks" 41 
MERC BHK 18 10 1981 TO 15 10 1982 
KETU BHK 15 10 1982 TO 12 3 1983 
VEN BHK 12 3 1983 TO 12 5 1984 
SUN BHK 12 5 1984 TO 18 9 1984 
MOON BHK 18 9 1984 TO 18 4 1985 


oak che dh ath dicta dhedhashaciisaiueci dtlieaiechdtidmaiethaciecdh-anedivainedaitiedas tieniientcadiectaaie ia nant ete ia inet etter cere nraelinnietan  reond 


RAHU BHK 18 4 1985 TO 3012 1987 
JUP BHK 30 121987 TO 24 5 1990 
SAT BHK 24 5 1990 TO 30 3 1993 
MERC BHK 30 31993 TO 1810 1995 
KETU BHK 18 101995 TO 6 11 1996 
VEN BHK 6 111996 TO 611 1999 
SUN BHK 6 111999 TO 30 9 2000 
MOON BHK 30 9 2000 TO 30 3 2002 
MARS BHK 30 3 2002 TO 18 4 2003 


a kN Sk lH 


JUP DASA18 4 2003 TO 18 4 2019 


i a a hg Rp i a ie lO — 


JUP BHK 18 4 2003 TO 6 6 2005 
SAT BHK 6. 6 2005 TO 18 12 2007 
MERC BHK 18 12 2007 TO 24 3 2010 
KETU BHK 24 3 2010 TO z 3 2011 
VEN BHK 2 3 2011 TO 30 10 2013 
SUN BHK 30 10 2013 TO 18 8 2014 


MOON BHK 18 8 2014 TO 18 12 2015 
MARS BHK 18 12 2015 TO 24 11 2016 
RAHU BHK 24 11 2016 TO 18 4 2019 


J ee ee 


ASC & | (PHYSICAL STRUCTURE) 


“Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" A2 


We have to use common sense in 
deciding about the height and the colour or 
complexicn of a person. The region and the 
social group to which a person actually belongs 
to would also matter a lot in deciding the height 
and the colour or complexion of a person. For 
example, the average height of a few tribal groups 
is.around 4.5 feet, while the average height of 
an Australian stands at 6 feet. 


Our ancestors have used different signs, 
stars and planets for identifying different colours. 
White coloured Europeans, Dark coloured 
Africans, Yellowish Mangolians, Brownish 
Indians are all living in this world. Even amengst 
the same coloured people, we can notice a few 
minor differences in colours. An African born 
with the starlord of the sublord of the Asc in 
Taurus, whatever may the complexion of his 
basic colour be, would appear as handsome. 
And also that the colour of a persen is subject to 
changes due to the climatic conditions and the 
exercise of physical labour in his profession. 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 43 


Body structure of a person could be 
traced from the Sign, Star & Sub, wherein the 
starlord (Sun, in this example chart) of the Asc 
sublord (Mars, in this example) is in. But please 
remeber that it would stand as common to all 
those who are born with Mars as Asc sublord on 
that particular day on which, the starlord Sun 
would remain in the same sign, star and sub. To 
differentiate, we need to identify the cusps 
wherein the starlord of the Asc sub, is the sublord. 
The signs of these cusps would combinedly 
indicate the structure of a person. 


In this example Sun, the starlord of the 
Asc sublord Mars, is the sublord only to the 6th 
cusp. Since Aries is the sign wherein the 6th cusp 
has fallen, the client would appear as per the 
significations of Aries {Tall, Masculine in 
appearance, with long, straight and black hair 
etc}. 

CHARACTER OF A PERSON : 


Character of a person changes as per the 
current DB lords. We know that a person with 
very good character occassionally falls from his 
own standards. Take the case of the former US 
president Bill Clinton; all of a sudden, his name 
was involved in a sex scandal. The successful 
captain of the South African cricket team, Late 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 4 


Hansie Cronje was accused of bribery charges. 
It is a fact that no one could ever be good to 
everybody else, no one could ever be good to 
all at all times and on all circumstances; 
Qualities of contrast natures like pervertions and 
morality, vengeance and magnanimity, selfish 
attitude and social service are tied together in 
the same mind and heart; they blow in and wear 
out as per the Dasa and Bhukthies. The 
consistency factor of one's character remains 
more with the DB lords. Please note that we 
have not included the Antara and the Sookshma 
periods because their periods are relatively 
smaller. 


During the DB periods that are related to 
the Asc, the character significations of natal 
nature of the Asc leads the stage. But, in the 
periods of Dasas and Bhukthies, that are 
unrelated to the Asc, the character gets 
modified according to their respective lords. 
However, the basic character of an Ascendant 
could be studied as follows. 


The starlord of the Asc sublord is Sun in 
this example: 


Planetary signification ( Sun ): 


i) Status, Leadership, Selfish, Power & 


"Applications of Cuspal_ Interlinks" 45 
Authority, Fond of Hot and Spicy Foods, 
Short-temper, Bold decisions, Convincing others 
to his views etc (Vide P.N 46 of Principles of 
Cuspal Interlinks) 


Here, we have taken only those Karakas 
of Sun that are meant only for the Ascendant. 
We have not included the 6, 7 & the 8th houses 
and their related karakas of Sun as they would 
become immaterial here. {P.N 21, “PCI”} 


Sun is connected to Aries, a movable and 
fiery sign: 


ZODIAC significations: 


ii) Initiative, Violent, Endeavour, 
Thoughtful, Active, Encouraging, Rumour- 
monger, Doubting others, Adamant, Careless, 
Concoctor of lies, Harsh words, Provocative, 
Hurting others and Insulting sentiments etc., 
(Vide PN 45 of Principles of Cuspal Interlinks) 


SUN is connected to the 6th cusp 


Cuspal significations: 
iil) Industrious, Hard-labour and a Debtor etc., 


In case if the planet Sun is connected to 
more than a single cusp, then the significations 


“Anplications of Cuspal Interlinks" 46 
pp p 


of all those cusps could be taken into account. 
In these cases of multiple ownerships, we have 
to depend more on the cusp to which the sublord 
of the Ascendant sublord would favour more. 


Sun is in Aries and it is the | Bhava of 
Zodiac 


iv) Helping tendancy, Popular, Bold in 
undertakings, Social status etc., 


The sublord of the Ascendant sublord is 
Rahu, which is the sublord of the.7th cusp, a 
neutral position to Sun, the starlord of the Asc 
sublord. Hence the planet Rahu would uphold 
the results provided by the Sun. 


GRAHA KARAKA 
(PLANETARY SIGNIFICATIONS) 


Saturn and Ketu are the two planets 
which are either in the star or sub of Mars, the 
Asc sublord. 


SATURN would give Mental Depression, 
Doubting Natures, Stress and Pains, Telling Lies, 
Lack of Cleanliness, Violence,  Inferiority 
Complex, Laziness, Lack of needed interest in 
sexual pleasures etc. 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks” 47 


KETU would give Criminal Thoughts, 
Magics, Cunningness, Faith in God, More aciditity 
in body, Subversive actions etc. 


While the karakas of Mars remain 
permanent, karakas of Saturn & Ketu would 
temporarily come to the forefront by 
superseding the karakas of Mars, during their 
own Dasa, Bhukthi & Antara periods. 


Notes : 


1. If the sublord of the Asc sublord owns 
an unfavourable position to the starlord of the 
Asc sublord, it would distract the results 
indicated by the starlord. 


2. Supposing that the sublord of the Asc 
sublord is sublord to more than a single cusp 
while the starlord of the ascendant sublord is 
owner only to a single cusp, a set of combined 
results is to be expected. 


3. If both the lords of the star and the sub 
of the Asc sublord are owners to more than a 
single cusp, then a proper combination of all 
those significations of the above linked cusps, is 
to be studied. 


4. If the starlord of the sublord of the Asc 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 48 


does not appear as sublord to any cusp, then we 
must find its appearance in the series of starlords 
and subsublords of all the 12 cusps, before 
going in for studying with its residential sign, star 
& sub of the said starlord of Asc. 


Let me list a few principles of linkage of the Asc 
to itself: 


1,1: Resistance to diseases, long life, own 
ideas, activeness 

1,2: Financial motives through self efforts 
and thoughts 

1,3: Courageous, communicative, fond of 
travels 

1,4: Inclination to education, Interested in 
accumulating wealth, Lesser interest in 
romance, Atheist 

1,5: Interests in music and arts, sports, 
romance 

1,6: Frequent illness, fond of success 

1,7; Envious towards others, sociable 

1,8: Dejections, attempts to commit suicides, 
criminal intentions 

1,9: Illegal affairs, excellence in higher 
education 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 49 


1,10: Status through profession 
1,11: Satisfaction through self efforts 
1,12: A man of secrecy 


Here in the given example chart, the Asc 
sublord is permanently linked with the houses 6 
& 7 to mean that the native is prone to frequent 
illnesses and may envy others. These would 
become explicit wnen the Asc sublord Mars 
transits in its own stars during its DBA periods. 


To help the readers, ! would like to 
suggest them the art of classifying the 
significations of the nine planets as suited to the 
cuspal requirements with the following example. 
It is always better to teach the art of fishing rather 
than to donate fishes. Hence, | have provided 
the Asc related significations of the ascendant, 
by giving an example each for the physical and 
the mental karakas for every planet. In the same 
way, | request the readers to learn the art of 
classification for the remaining 11 bhavas or 
cusps. For the details of significations of 
planets, readers are advised to refer some good 
traditional texts, until 1 could find time to write a 
separate book on "Cuspal Interlinks and Graha 
Karakas". 


SUN: Bones of the body; Honesty 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 50 


MOO: Blood in the body, Intelligence 
MAR: Fleshes in the body, Courage and 


hard labour 

MER: Nerves of the body, Memory and 
activeness 

JUP: Fats in the body, Generosity and 
devotion 


VEN: Glands of the body, Handsome 
appearance and pleasures 

SAT: Skin of the body, Doubting and inferiority 
complex of the mind 

RAH: Respiratory function, Addictions 

KET: Acids of the body, Criminal and 
subversive thoughts 


ASC & Il 


Certain significations of the Il cusp are 
meant only for Asc, such as fortunes and favours, 
one's abilities and smiles of lucks, capability to 
express, softness in expression, memory, 
imagination, capacity to digest food, allergy, 
vision and the right eye, voice and the tongue, 
nose, teeth, cheek, jaws etc. 


General principles of linkage of the Il 
house with the Asc are as follows: 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks” 51 


1-1: 
1,2: 
1,3: 


1,4: 


Expenditures from personal savings 
Earnings through own ideas. 

Sale of gold and valuables for personal 
needs 

Purchase of goods and articles for 
personal needs, out of own income 
Gamblings with own money 

Personal medical expenditure out of 
income 

Expenditures from his money left at 
other's hands 

Dejections on financial matters 
Financial crisis out of extravagant 
expenditures 

Expenditures for safeguarding the 
prestige 

Savings to the optimum level to satisfy 
personal materialistic desires 
Extravagant expenditure for personal 
needs 


DIMENSION 1: POTENTIAL: 


To study the Asc related matters of the II 


house, we have to use only the sublord of the Il 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 52 


cusp; In the given example, Mercury the II 
sublord, is in Venus star, the sublord of the 12th 
house and in the sub of Rahu, the 7th sublord. 
12th house is a house of unfavour to the Asc. 
But the sublord of Mercury, Rahu negates the 
star and hence the unfavours shown by the star 
become null and void. 


Planetary significations: 


Venus, as the starlord of the sublord of 
the Il cusp, would mean love and affection in 
conversing, convincing, pride in speech etc. 
(Vide 6 of PN 65- Principles of Cuspal Interlinks) 


Zodiac significations: 


We_ have to identify the cusps wherein 
the starlord of the Il sublord is the sublord. The 
signs of these cusps would combinedly decide 
the skills of expressions of a person. 

The starlord Venus appears as the sublord 
of the 12th cusp, which has fallen in Libra, the 
airy, the movable and the inorganic sign. 


Selfishness in speech, bogus presentation, 
clear and pleasing speech etc,. (12-P.N 66, 
"Principles of Cuspal Interlinks") 


Cuspal significations: 


“Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 53 


Since it is the 12th cusp, the native 
would involve in research works, inventions, 
inclination to express secrets but with ambiguity. 


DIMENSION 2: (DASA , BHUKTHI) 


With the above potential, the sublord of 
the Il cusp Mercury, persuades its agents i.e., 
the planets that are in its star or sub, for 
execution of its potential. Here in this example, 
Jupiter is the only planet which is in the star and 
sub of Mercury, the Il sublord. Hence at the time 
of execution of the Asc related significations of 
the Il cusp, the planet Jupiter would use its own 
karakas for the style of functioning. 


GRAHA KARAKA 
(PLANETARY SIGNIFICATIONS) 


Jupiter, as the sublord of houses 5 & 11, 
and as a planet in the star and sub of Mercury, 
the Il sublord, would lead the native to reveal the 
truths, to provide needed advice, to prefer only 
hygienic foods etc., and to have a clear eye-sight, 
to increase fat in eyes, to gain knowledge through 
listenings, to get mellowed in 
conversations etc,. 


While the reactions of Mercury, as the II 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 54 
sublord on Asc (DIMENSION 1) remains 
permanent, Jupiter would act (DIMENSION Il) 
in the forefront during its own DBA periods. 


DIMENSION III: 


The remaining 7 planets would act 
temporarily for the Asc related significations of 
the Il cusp, while they happen to transit in the 
star of Mercury, but depending upon their 
potential of favour / unfavour to the Asc. 


Planetary significations of the Asc related 
significations of the Il bhava could be read with 
the use of the following example: 


SUN: Strength of bones, Prideful speech, 

MOO: High % of hemoglobin in blood, Thought 
provoking speech 

MAR: Strong muscles, Boldness in speech 

MER: Active nerves, Humorous speech 

JUP: Excessive fats in the body, Soft spoken 

VEN: Watery body, Attractive speech 

SAT: Rough skin, Exaggerated speech with lies 

RAH: Deep breaths, Ambiguous speech 

KET: High and speedy flow of acid with 
increased capacity to digest, Spreading 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks” 55 


rumours and provoking confusions 
through speech 


Thus the readers can classify the 
remaining physical and mental significations of 
planets for the asc related significations of the Il 
bhava, for precise predictions. 


ASC & Ill 


Memory power, courage, inclination 
towards studies, stability, writings and style of 
writings, communications, rumours, journeys, 
leaving the native place, right ear, right hand, 
right leg, neuro- system, blood circulation, 
sleeping, sound and light, listening etc of the III 
house are meant only for lagna. 


General principles of linkage of the Ill 
house with the Asc are as follows: 


1,1: Courage and self-confidence through 
own ideas 

1,2: Courage and self-confidence to earn 
income 

1,3: Winning through own ideas, confidence 
and intelligence 

1,4: Confidence, developing skills towards 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 56 


education 

Knowledge, wisdom and confidence 
by birth {Prodigy} 

Success in litigations and competitions, 
through confident approach 

Courage and confidence gained from 
society 

Confident to go after criminal means 
Confidence and courage in negotiations 
Confidence shown in_ professional 
excellence 

Happy and harmonious life gained through 
mental toughness 

Confidence gained through maintaining 
secrecy 


DIMENSION | : (POTENTIAL) 


In this example, the Ill sublord is Mars, 


which transits in the star of Sun, the sublord of 
the 6th cusp and is in the sub of Rahu, the 7th 
sublord. 6th house is a neutral house to the Asc 
and the 7th house is a neutral house to the 6th 
house. Hence, the potential of the Asc related 
significations of the Ill house is potentially 
neutral to the Asc. 


“Applications of Cuspal_Interlinks" 57 
Sun, starlord of the sublord of the III cusp, 


would denote mental toughness. (Planetary 
signification) 


We have to identify the cusps to which 
the starlord of the Ill sublord, appears as the 
sublord. The signs of these cusps would 
combinedly decide the mental strength of a 
person. 


Sun is the sublord of the 6th cusp, which 
falls in Aries, the fiery and the movable sign. It 
adds quick, fiery and courageous reflexes of 
mind. (Zodiac signification) 


Sun is connected to the 6th house from 
Asc:- Courage to carry self-endeavours. (Cuspal 
signification) 


DIMENSION II: 
(DASA BHUKTHI PERIODS) 


The planet Mars would drive the residents 
of its star or sub to execute its natal potential. 
Saturn and Ketu are the two planets in the star 
or sub of Mars, the III sublord. 


"Applications of Cuspal_ Interlinks" 58 


GRAHA KARAKA 
(PLANETARY SIGNIFICATIONS) 


Saturn would give tise to rumours, 
defects in nerves and _ blood circulation, 
defects in the parts of sound and light, mental 
agony, lack of needed courage and problems due 
to signing of surety documents. 


Ketu. would lead to involve in forged 
documents, overflow in the glands, infection in 
ears, increase of acidity in blood, weakness in 
nervous system etc. 


While the karakas of Mars, as the sublord 
of the IIl house, a naturally favourable house to 
the Asc, remain permanent, karakas of Saturn & 
Ketu would temporarily come to the forefront by 
superseding the karakas of Mars, during their 
respective DBA periods. 


DIMENSION Ill: TRANSIT 


The remaining planets would act tempo- 
rarily for the Asc related significations of the Ill 
cusp, while they happen to transit in the star of 
Mars, but depending upon their nature of favour 
to the Asc with respect to their natal cuspal 
interlinks. 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 59 
Planetary principles: 


SUN: Strength of bones; Mental toughness 

MOO: Blood pressure, Wavering mind 

MAR: Well-structured body, Boldness 

MER: Active physical reflexes, Grasping 
capacity 

JUP: Dullness in physical actions, Steady and 
calm mind 

VEN: Brisk physical functioning, Engaged and 
industrious mind 

SAT: Lethargic physical actions, Lazy mind 

RAH: Strains in physical actions, Lack of 
balance in mind 

KET: Active digestion, Considerate mind 


Thus the readers can learn the art of 
Classifying the remaining karakas of the planets, 
as suited to the requirements of the Asc related 
significations of the III cusp. 

ASC & IV 


Primary education, private affairs, chest 
and lungs, movements of the body, prolonged 
diseases, irregular food habits, productivity of 
inner organs, are some ofthe karakas of the 4th 
house, a naturally unfavourable house, that are 
related to the Asc. 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 60 


What the IV house would render on the 
Asc could be identified from the following list of 
priniciples of linkage: 


1,1: Status and respect through Lands, 
Vehicles and Properties 

1,2: Income and status through LVP 

1,3: | Contacts and status through LVP 

1,4: Landlord 

1,5: Expressing artistic tastes involving LVP 

1,6: Respectable hardwork in the fields of LVP 

1,7: Sociable and popular in the fields of LVP 

1,8: Death due to vehicle accidents 

1,9: Landlord like a king or a Zamindar 

1,10: Authority in the fields of LVP 

1,11: Satisfaction of desires by owning LVP 

1,12: Secret plans with regard to acquiring LVP 


DIMENSION 1: POTENTIAL: 


In the above, we have chosen the factor 
of "STATUS" by selecting it from the pool of 
numerous significations of the Asc to match it 
with the karaka of "OWNERSHIP" from the pool 
of significations of the IV house. Thus we have 
to practice the application of matching the 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 61 


remaining karakas of the Asc with all the other 
significations of the IV house. 


NOTE: The meaning of the words, 
"Primary Education" is subject to the changing 
times and to the average education standards 
of a society. 


In the example chart, the 4th sublord 
Mercury is in the star of Venus, which is the 12th 
sublord. Thus the star denotes dangers to his 
educational efforts. 


The sublord of the sublord of the 4th house 
is Rahu which is the sublord of the 7th house, 
i.e., 8th to the 12th house. Hence the scope for 
getting educated is not wide and is potentially 
limited to learnings through experience. 


DIMENSION II (DASA BHUKTHIES): 
Certain Bhukthies and Antaras of Jupiter 
would have helped the client to continue his 
studies for a while, since it is in the star and sub 
of the 4th sublord Mercury. 


GRAHA KARAKA 
(PLANETARY SIGNIFICATIONS) 


Jupiter is the only planet which is in the 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 62 
star of Mercury, the IV sublord. 


Jupiter would lead the Asc to have 
higher interest in gaining knowledge, increase 
in fats, interest to produce, neatness through 
make-up etc. 


While the reactions of Mercury as the IV 
sublord on Asc remains permanent, Jupiter 
would supersede the same during its DBA 
periods. 

DIMENSION Ill: TRANSIT 


The remaining planets would act 
temporarily for the Asc related significations of 
the IV cusp, while they happen to transit in the 
star of Mercury but depending upon their nature 
of favour to the Asc with respect to their natal 
cuspal interlinks. 


Planetary significations of the Asc related 
significations of the IV bhava could be read with 
the use of the following example: 


SUN: Production and growth of bones, Interest 
in political studies 

MOO: Production of blood, Interest in 
psycological studies 

MAR: Production of fleshes, Interest in 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 63 


production technologies 

MER: High % of neurons, Interest in 
information and communication 

JUP: High % of fats in bodies, Interest in 
religious and moral education 

VEN: High % of flow from glands, Interest in 
artistic education 

SAT: High % of hair in the body, Interest in 
research fields such as Archaeology etc., 

RAH: Higher consumption of carbon di oxide, 
Interest in historical studies 

KETU: Higher flow of acidity in the body, Interest 
in magics 


Tnus the readers can classify the 
remaining physical and mental significations of 
planets for the asc related significations of the 
IV bhava, for precise predictions. 


ASC&V 


The following significations of the V 
house, like lineage, gaiety, happiness, taste, 
celebrations, decorations, interest in arts, 
music and sports, tendancy to gamble and 
speculate, love and romance, being raped, 
rational thoughts, habits, morality, |Q level, faiths, 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 64 


beliefs, body cells, heart, relief from diseases etc 
are related to Asc. 


What the V house would render on the 


Asc could be identified from the following list of 
priniciples of linkage: 


1,1 
1.2 
13 


1,4: 
1,5: 


1,6 
1,7 
18 


1,9: 


1,10: 
el 


1,12: 


Status as an artist 

Income in the fields of SG & AC 

Flow of deep thoughts as a writer and a 
poet 

Excellence shown as a craftsman 
Natural exhibition of artistic talents as a 
prodigy 

Service as an artist 

Entertainer of society as an artist 

Loss of reputation and respect in the 
field of arts 

Spiritual beliefs as an artist 

Professional artists, reputed astrologers 
Inclined towards enjoyments and 
pleasures through involvements in the 
field of arts 

Getting retired from the artistic fields 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks” 65 
DIMENSION 1: POTENTIAL: 


If the 5th sublord gets linked to the 
following, then one would become as : 


a) 1,6&11 - Sportsman 
b) 1,3,6&10 - Actor 
c) 2,3,6& 10 - Singer 
d) 1,5, 9,108 11 - Politician 
e) 1,3,9& 12 - Writer 
4&10 - Production of films, 


— 
— 


Institution of arts. 
* For further details refer PCI- Chapter V Bhava. 


In this example chart, the 5th sublord is 
Jupiter, which is in the star and sub of Mercury. 
Mercury happens to be the sublord of houses 2, 
4 & 10. Not a favourable combination to the 
spiritual cycle of life. The native would run after 
materialistic benefits as his mind would never get 
satisfied with desires. 

Arts would lead as a part of his 
profession (10) and source of income (2) added 
to running an own institution of arts (4). Since 
the starlord of the sublord of the 5th cusp is 
Mercury, it would denote the field of interest and 
the native is, in fact, an astrologer. 


"Applications of Cuspa/ Interlinks" 66 
ROMANCE & LOVE: 


5th sublord Jupiter is in the star and sub 
of Mercury, which is the sublord of 2 (Neutral), 4 
(Unfavourable) & 10 (Neutral). 


Houses 4 & 10 would give failures in love 
affairs to the Asc. Linkage of 4 & 10, would 
detatch his committment of love affairs. The 
person could satisfy only his own ego (10). 


INTERESTS: 


Since the 5th sublord is linked to the 
houses 2, 4 & 10, through its starlord, the 
natural interests of the native would be towards 
collection of valuable articles and wealth (2), 
acquisition of lands, vehicles and household 
appliances (4) and venturing into own business 
(10) etc,.This will be more prominent for him 
during the DBA periods of Jupiter. 


DIMENSION II (DBA PERIODS): 
The planets Sun & Saturn are in the 


sub of Jupiter, the 5th sublord. No planet is in 
the star of Jupiter. 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 67 


GRAHA KARAKA 
(PLANETARY SIGNIFICATIONS) 


Sun would give generosity, pride, 
participation in government functions etc. 


Saturn would increase immunity to 
diseases, friendship with persons of lower 
status, taking dry foods etc., 


While the karakas of Jupiter as the 5th 
sublord to Asc remains permanent, Sun & 
Saturn would supersede the same during their 
own DBA periods. 


DIMENSION III: TRANSIT 


The remaining planets would act 
temporarily for the Asc related significations of 
the V cusp, while they happen to transit in the 
star of Jupiter, but depending upon their nature 
of favour to the Asc with respect to their natal 
cuspal interlinks. 


Planetary significations ofthe Asc related 
significations of the V bhava could be read with 
the use of the following example: 


SUN: Self-satisfaction in physical pleasures, 
Artistic interests with nobility 


"Applications of Cuspal interlinks" 68 


MOO: Quick in copulations, Artistic interests with 
Imagination 

MAR: Harsh approach during copulations, 
Artistic interests with arrogance 

MER: Sexual pleasures with more fore-plays, 
Artistic interest with cleverness 

JUP: Prolonged copulations, Artistic interests 
with devotion 

VEN: Artistic approach during copulations, 
Artistic interests with entertaining natures 

SAT: Pains and dejections in copulations, 
Artistic interests with traditional styles 

RAH: Immoral sexual pleasures, Artistic 
interests with investigating natures 

KETU:Sexual pleasures in indecent ways, 
Artistic interests with criminal natures 


Thus the readers can classify the 
remaining physical and mental significations of 
planets for the asc related significations of the 
V bhava, for precise predictions. 


ASC & VI 
Care and maintenance, service, food 


habits and dressing sense, taking medicines, 
food poison, stomach and digestion system, 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 69 
hurdles and problems in self-efforts, diseases 
and problems to health are some of the Asc 
related significations of the 6th Bhava. 


(HEALTH) 
|; Asc Potential 


a) Asc sublord is Mars and it is in SAT- 
SUN-RAHU-MERC. (RECEIVER) (Potential 1) 


i) Starlord Sun is the 6th cuspal sublord. 


Hence, generally speaking, the native 
would be unhealthy. 


ii) Sublord Rahu is the 7th cuspal sublord. 


Since it is neutral to 6, it would favour and 
increase the problems to health and would 
reduce the power of immunity for the native. 


b) Asc subsublord is Moon and it is in 
MER-SUN-RAH-VEN (Potential 2) 


i) Starlord Sun is the 6th cuspal sublord. 
ii) Sublord Rahu is the 7th cuspal sublord. 


Potential 1+2 would denote the potential 
of reception of the health by the Asc, when the 
6th house renders diseases to the native. 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 70 


fi;POTENTIAL of the 6th CUSP: 
(TRANSMITTER) 


6th cuspal sublord Sun is in JUP-VEN- 
J UP-SAT. 


i) Starlord Venus is sublord of 12. 
(Unfavourable house to the Asc) 


ii) Sublord Jupiter is sublord of 5 & 11 
(Favourable houses to the Asc) 


Though diseases are generally referred 
by the 6th house, they are actually being 
suffered by the Asc. Through its starlord, the 
sublord of the 6th cusp, Sun links with the XII 
house to the Asc leading to prolonged illnesses, 
unbearable pains, stress, expenses through 
hospitalization etc., 


The sublord (Jupiter) of the 6th sublord 
(Sun) is the sublord of 5 & 11th cusps and the 
subsublord of 9th. Here Jupiter almost negates 
the significations of Venus, the starlord of Sun, 
thus providing the native some relief. 


{ll} KINDS OF DISEASES: 


Kinds of diseases could be traced by 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 71 
compiling the significations of 
i) the actual cuspal point of the 6th house 


* j-a) 6th cusp fails in Aries sign (Mesha) 


Head ache, pain in nerves, coma, 
giddiness, disorders in brain & blood vessels, 
bacterial diseases & mental stress. 


i-b) 6th cusp falls in Bharani Star. 

Native will suffer through diseases in the 
body parts denoted by Bharani - Head ache 
caused by blood pressure, chest pains etc. 


i-c) Sun is the sublord and subsublord of 
6th cusp. _— Diseases in bones. 


i-d) Moon, Mars & Rahu are the planets 
that transit in the star or sub of Sun, the 6th 
sublord. 

Mars is sublord of Asc & 3. 


* Hard labour or overjoy would bring diseases. 
* Communication parts (Nerves) of the body. 


The karaka of Mars: Highly painful, flesh 
& muscles. 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 72 


Moon is sublord of 9th and subsublord of Asc. 
Changes in the general structure of the body. 

The karaka of Moon: Blood, sudden 
and immediate illness, infections through liquids 
and importantly genetical diseases. 


ii) The residential Sign,Star and Sub of 
the 6th SBL(Sun) 


ii-a) SAGITTARIUS: Hips, troubles in 
anus, piles, fistula, (9th to the Kalachakra) 
Nerves in legs & cancer etc. 


ii-b) POORVASHADA: | Diabetes, 
respiratory disorders, cancer etc. 


ii-c) JUPITER: Tissues, cholesterol & fats. 
IV: DASA POTENTIAL (Il DIMENSION) 


Moon, Mars & Rahu are the planets that 
are connected with the Sun, the 6th sublord. 


Though linked with the 6th cusp, Rahu, 
the 7th sublord has no link with the Asc. Hence 
Rahu is not empowered to cause for diseases 
for the native. 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 73 
MOO Dasa upto the age of 13} 


MAR 20} 

RAH 38} [Average human 
JUP 54} life cycle] 

SAT 73} 


Mars, Asc sublord and Moon, the Asc 
subsublord would damage the health of the 
native during their respective DBAS periods. 


V : GOCHARA (TRANSIT) 


a) The starlord (Sat), the sublord (Mars) 
the subsublord (Moon) of the Asc, while they 
get to transit in the star of Sun, the 6th cuspal 
sublord, would make the client to suffer from 
diseases. . 

b) The lords of the current DBAS, while 
transiting either in the star of the Asc starlord or 
Asc sublord or Asc subsublord, ( to mean a link 
and to stand as a matter to the Asc ) and also in 
the sub of the 6th sublord (Sun, in this case) would 
make the client to suffer from diseases. 


The nature and the type of the diseases 
would vary according to the sign, star and the 
sub in which the concerned planet is actually in 
transit, in addition to its own significations 
(karakas). 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 74 


These diseases would only be temporary. 
Until the Gochara (Transit) turns to normalcy, 
during the DBAS periods of Mars & Moon, the 
diseases may get prolonged. 


VI: DURATION OF A DISEASE 


The length and the period of the diseases 
could be studied from the DBAS periods of the 
concerned planet, which are empowered to 
cause diseases to the client. To say it in other 
words, 


a) As per the potential, the planets Mars 
and Moon are to give diseases during their 
respective periods. Since the periods of Bhukthi, 
Antara and the Sookshma of Mars would 
immediately succeed the periods of Moon, as per 
the sequence of UDU MAHADASA, the periods 
of illness would relatively be a little longer and 
the nature of diseases would also change from 
one kind to the other. 


b) Whenever the planets Mars & Moon 
are transiting in the star of Sun, irrespective of 
the changes in the periods of the Udu 
Mahadasa, they would cause for problems in 
health. On all Sun star days, health could not 
remain sound. Until the planets Mars and Moon 


"Applications of Cuspal_Interlinks" 75 


move out from the star of Sun, the problems of 
health would sustain. 


c) Fortunately in this chart, the 6th cuspal 
sublord is Sun, a planet with the least proportion 
of UDU MAHADASA. Also the Asc sublord is 
Mars and the subsublord is MOON, both fast 
moving planets with smaller proportions. So, the 
duration of illnesses for this native would 
relatively be for short periods only. 


Vil: NOTES 


1. In this example chart, the planet Sun 
is both the sublord and the subsublord of the 
6th cusp. It would not be so in 8 out of the 9 
cases; Hence, the subsub alongwith the sub is 
to be studied before finalizing the due merit of 
the chart. 


2. Readers could have noticed from the 
above example that almost all the diseases have 
been listed as the probable diseases. It is so, 
because a person suffers due to gastric 
problems for a few minutes; suffers from 
head-ache for a few hours; suffers due to tooth- 
ache for a whole night; suffers due to an injury in 
the legs or limbs for a week; suffers from some 
sort of swellings or the other for about a month; 
suffers from a fracture for almost 8 to 10 months. 


"Applications of Cuspal_Interlinks" 76 


All of us at least once or twice in our life, suffer 
from tooth decay, viral fever, food poisoning and 
infections. Hence we need not get scared about 
this long list of diseases. 


3. Diseases can be classified into two 
categories as temporary and permanent. 
Temporary diseases are caused mainly by the 
Gochara/ Transit of the planets. Diseases 
remain as permanent due to the DBAS lords. 
Health gets deteriorated when the factors 
of the permanancy are favoured by the 
temporary factors. For example, when the Asc 
gets connected to the 6th and the 8th cusps at 
the same time, { this could be possible only 
when the star or the sub or the ssl of the 6th 
cusp is also the star or the sub or the subsub of 
the 8th cusp} the diseases would lead upto 
surgery or the removal of that part of the body or 
considerable loss of blood or amputations etc. 


4. Supposing that a person without a 
natal chart queries about his health problems, 
then we will have to erect a Horary chart. Use of 
this chart should be restricted only to one 
current question on health. 


5. The details of the nature and kinds 
of diseases for different cusps, planets, signs, 
stars could be read from the book, "Principles 


" Applications_of Cuspal_Interlinks” 77 


of Cuspal Inter links", written by this author, and 
published by Sagar Publications, New Delhi. 


MORE on VI: 


What the VI house would render on the 


Asc, could be identified from the following list of 
priniciples of linkage: 


1,1: 


1,2: 


1,3: 


Losing consciousness because of food 
habits 

Diseases caused by excessive intake of 
food 

Arrest of movements due to food habits 


1,4: Excessive production in the organs of the 


1,5: 


1,6: 
1505 


1,8: 
1,9: 


1,10: 


body caused by food habits 

Cure from diseases, preserving health by 
diet control 

Diseases caused by food shabits 
Contagious diseases, marrying the 
servant 

Increase in diseases 

Changes in the structure of body due to 
food habits 

Excessive production in the body due to 
food habits 


1,11: Increase in resistance capacity due to food 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks” 78 
habits 

1,12: Frequent illnesses and subsequent 
medical expenditures 


1. In the example chart, the 6th sublord 
Sun is in the star of Venus, the sublord of the12th 
and is in the sub of Jupiter, the sublord of 5 & 11. 
Only with the help of others (5 & 11), the native 
can overcome difficulties. 

2. The starlord Venus indicates vegetables 
and fruits, while the sublord Jupiter indicates oily 
and fatty foods to denote the food choices of the 
native. 


3. Venus & Jupiter would denote the 
costlier clothes of mild and soft colours like 
yellow, white, orange and light blue to identify 
the dressing sense of the native. 


DIMENSION II (DBA PERIODS): 


Sun is the 6th sublord; Moon, Mars & 
Rahu are the planets which are in the star or 
sub of Sun. 
GRAHA KARAKA 
(PLANETARY SIGNIFICATIONS) 


Moon: Water, blood, thoughts and mind, 
vegetables that contain more percentage of 


"Applications _of Cuspal_Interlinks” 79 
water and white coloured dresses. 


Mars: Muscles and flesh, diseases 
caused by excess heat, red coloured vegetables, 
dal varities, non-vegetarian foods etc,. 


Rahu: Resipiratory functions, fatty foods, 
liquor, drugs, smoking etc. 


While the significations of Sun, as the 
6th sublord on Asc remains permanent, Moon, 
Mars and Rahu would supersede the same with 
their significations during their DBA periods. 


DIMENSION III: TRANSIT 


The remaining planets would act 
temporarily for the Asc related significations (Like 
diseases) of the VI cusp, while they happen to 
transit in the star of Sun, but depending upon 
their nature of favour to the Asc with respect to 
their natal cuspal interlinks. 


Planetary significations of the Asc related 
significations of the IV bhava could be read with 
the use of the following example: 


SUN: Diseases in bones, Mental courage 
MOO: Diseases in blood, Wavering mind 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 80 

MAR: Diseases in flesh, Bold attitude 

MER: Diseases in nerves, Cunning mind 

JUP: Diseases caused by fats, Composed 
in nature 

VEN: Diseases in glands, Happy and romantic 
nature 

SAT: Diseases in skin, Dull and lethargic mind 

RAH: Diseases in respiratory system, Obesity, 
Lusty 

KET: Diseases caused by acidity, Criminal mind 


Thus the readers can classify the 
remaining physical and mental significations of 
planets for the Asc related significations cf the 
IV bhava, for precise predictions. 


ASC & VII 


Marriage and Business partnerships, 
Questioning, Law abiding citizen, Victory in 
litigations and winning enmity, Exchanges, 
Change in journeys, Threat to longevity, 
Meetings, Sentiments, Persons whom one 
meets at his business place, Opponents, 
Contagious diseases, Kidney, Uterus and 
Urinary system etc are the few among the Asc 
related significations of the VII house. 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 81 


What the VII house would provide for the 


Asc could be identified from the following list of 
priniciples of linkage: 


1,1: 
1,2: 
1,3: 


1,4: 
1,5: 


1,6: 
1,7: 
1,8: 


1,9: 
1,10: 


Dependancy and inclination of Life/ 
Business partners on the native 

Income for the native through L/B 
partners and short life of L/B 

L/B partners as suited to the likings of 
the native 

Dissatisfactions through L/B partners 
Happy and harmonious relationships 
with L/B partners 

Indifferent attitude of L/B partners towards 
the native 

Compromising and understandings with 
L/B partners 

Being murdered or threatened by LB 
partners 

Second marriage 

Dissatisfaction in married life caused by 
spouse 


1,11: Marriage with the person of native's choice 


1,12: 


Secret troubles caused by L/B partners 
DIMENSION | (POTENTIAL): 


In the example chart, the 7th sublord is 


Rahu which transits in its own star and in Sun 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 82 


sub. Sun is the sublord of the 6th cusp. The 6th 
is a house of materialistic success to the Asc 
and so, the native could succeed in his social 
relations. This could be possible during the dasa, 
bhukthi and the antara periods of Rahu, the 7th 
cuspal sublord. 


DIMENSION II (DBA Periods) 


Rahu is the 7th sublord and Moon, Mars, 
Rahu & Mercury are the planets which are 
either in the star or the sub of Rahu. 


GRAHA KARAKA_ - 
(PLANETARY SIGNIFICATIONS) 


Moon: Meeting young partners, persons 
without stable mind, highly sensitive persons, 
thinkers etc. 


Mars: Persons with short-temper, 
immoralities, more inclined to sexual pleasures, 
liars 


Mercury: Persons with knowledge, 
activeness, wavering mind and thoughts, more 
sense of humour etc. 


Rahu: Aged persons, more interested in 
sexual pleasures, obese persons. 


"Applications of Cuspal_Interlinks" 83 


While the karakas of Rahu, as the VII 
sublord on Asc would remain permanent, the 
karakas of Moon, Mars & Mercury would come 
to the forefront during their respective DBA 
periods. 


DIMENSION Il: TRANSIT 


The remaining planets would act 
temporarily for the Asc related significations (Like 
diseases) of the VII cusp, while they happen to 
transit in the star of Rahu, but depending upon 
their nature of favour to the Asc with respect to 
their natal cuspal interlinks. 

Planetary significations of the Asc related 
significations of the VII bhava could be read with 
the use of the following example: 


SUN: Lecherous, Egoistic towards spouse 

MOO: Quick in copulations, Flexible attitude 
towards spouse 

MAR: Arrogant apporoach in sex, Rough and 
tough towards spouse 

MER: Imaginative in sex, Understanding 
approach towards spouse 

JUP: Loves decent sex, Respecting the 
sentiments of the spouse 

VEN: Artistic approach and fond of variety in 
sex, Romantic approach towards spouse 


"Applications of Cuspa/ Interlinks" 84 


SAT: Indecent and irreverent towards sex, 
Wavering attitude towards spouse 

RAH: Excessive sexual interests and intentions 
of home-sexuality, Attached towards 
spouse 

KET: Ugly and cruel attitude in sex, Criminal 
and sadistic towards spouse 


Thus the readers can classify the 
remaining physical and mental significations of 
planets for the Asc related significations of the 
VII bhava, for precise predictions. 


ASC & VIII 


Longevity, Mode of death, Accidents, 
Surgery, Sorrows, Mental agony and tension, 
Failure of productive organs of the body, End of 
journey, Stress and pain, Allegations, Private 
parts of the body, Hurdles, Distress, Delays, 
Being deceived, Suicides or being murdered, 
Rapes, Failures in fulfillments of ambitions, 
Harrassrhents by others and Sudden events are 
the 8th house significations which are related to 
ascendant. 


What the VIII house would render on the 
Asc could be identified from the following list of 
priniciples of linkage: 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 85 


1,1: 
1,2: 
1,3: 
1,4: 


1,5: 
1.6: 
1,7: 


18: 
1,9: 
1,10: 
1,11: 
1,12: 


Long life 

Unexpected profits through self efforts 
Sudden demise 

Unexpected acquisitions of properties 
& respect 

Unexpected interest in politics 
Unexpected success and diseases 
Unexpected meetings and sudden 
marriage 

Unexpected death or suicides 
Unexpected illegal affairs or research 
Unexpected promotions 

Unexpected pleasures 

Unexpected worries and losses 


LONGEVITY. DIMENSION | 


1.Asc Potential : (The RECEIVER) 


To decide about one's potential to 


ensure the approximate period of his life, 
Asc sublord is to be studied. 


In this example, the Asc has fallen in 


Scorpio, a fixed sign. For any fixed sign, houses 
2 & 7 would stand as maraka sthanas ( Houses 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 86 


of Death ). 9 would be the badaka sthana ( House 
of Danger ). Linkage of Asc sublord to any one 
or two of the above houses, i.e., 2, 7 & 9 would 
mean a short life. Houses 1, 3, 5 & 11 would be 
favourable for a long life. The remaining houses 
are 4,6, 8, 10 & 12. 


Asc sublord Mars is in the star of Sun, the 
6th sublord. Hence, we can presume that the life 
of the native is confined to a middle age (83-66) 
range only. 


Note: It is difficult to mark boundaries for 
the short, middle and the long life etc., While 
we divide the 120 years of Udu Mahadasa into 
three equal parts, we get 40 years each; Or if we 
take the normal span of life as 100 years for 
division, we get 33 years each. It becomes 
more difficult to mark a distinction to predict 
the death at the age of 32 years and at the age 
of 33 years; Even in the same sect of middle 
age, deaths at the age of 33 and atthe age 65 
are completely different with one another. 
Anyhow, for time being, or till that time when 
we could find a better classification, let us stick 
to the suggestions made by Shri M. Bhaskar 
Rao in his work, "Graha Saptha Sthithi". 


"Applications of Cuspal_Tnterlinks" 87 
2. Vill POTENTIAL: (The TRANSMITTER) 


8th is the house of death. 


8th sublord is Saturn and it resides in Mars 
star, the sublord of cusps 1 & 3 { Scorpio & 
Capricorn }. 


Houses 1 & 3 indicate sudden death. 
Death due to boiled wafer (35 of PN 54- PCI) 
Death near machineries {87 of PN 54 -PCl} 


Jupiter, the sublord of the houses 5 & 
11, is the sublord of the 8th cuspal sublord. It 
presumes death at a happy moment, i.e., when 
the native is enjoying his reputation. 


3. PERIOD of DEATH: 


The 8th sublord when linked to the Asc 
gives death to the client. Death would occur 
during the combined DBA periods of planets in 
the series of the 8th house, which happens to 
carry a linkage to the Asc or to its vrithisthana, 
the III house. 


8th cusp is: Mercury sign; Rahu Star; 
Saturn Sub; Sun subsub. 


Mercury, Rahu and Sun are not 


"Applications of Cuspal_ Interlinks" 88 
connected to the Asc either by their direct 
appearance or through their starlords. Saturn is 


the only planet which is empowered to cause 
death. 


Saturn, during its dasa would give death 
to the client. No one is in the star or the sub of 
Saturn. Hence Saturn alone is to give death to 
the client. 


Saturn dasa, Saturn bhukti would be fatal 
to the native, while it happens to transit in the 
star of Asc sublord (Mars) and in its own sub 
(Saturn). 

NOTES: 


1. This author does not believe in taking 
the Maraka and Badaka periods for calculating 
the time of death: Only when these sthanas are 
linked both to the Asc & to the 8th, they are 
empowered to cause death. 


2. The starlord of the sublord of the 8th 
cusp is the supreme commander of the sublord 
of the 8th cusp; In this example, the starlord Mars 
is the sublord of 1 & 3; With its significations of 1 
& 3, the planet Mars would drive Saturn to cause 
death. 


i) Since Mars is not the sublord of the 6th 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 89 


cusp, or anyone of the Vrithisthanas of Diseases, 
i.e., the 7th (2 to 6), orthe 8th (3 to 6) or the 4th 
(11th to 6th), diseases would not lead to death. 


ii) Since Mars is not the sublord of the 
8th cusp, or anyone of the Vrithisthanas of 
accidents, i.e., the 9th (2 to 8), or the 10th (3 to 
8) or the 6th (11th to 8th), accidents would not 
lead to death. 


iii) Since Mars is not the sublord of any one 
of the baraka or badaka sthanas {2, 7 & 9}, the 
possibility of natural death by attaining old age may 
also be ruled out. 


3. The use of subsubs both for cusps 
and for the planets have been deliberately 
avoided in this example, for simplification. 
Hence the above derivations are subject to 
certain limitations. 


4." What we are going to take, while we 
sit in the dining table on the immediate next 
occassion and the death would always remain 
as secrets to human knowledge" according to 
holy Qur-an. Hence it is better not to waste too 
much of our time and energy in predicting the 
time of death; Let us be free from the fear of 
death. 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 90 


5. | would like to request the readers not 
to draw hasty predictions with their own 
horoscopes in determining longevity. Self- 
analysis would always carry more elements of 
subjectivity. Afer all, certain aspects of life, only 
when they are kept secret to our knowledge, 
would make us to carry on with our daily 
routines happily with hopes. 


DIMENSION II (DBAS) 


8th sublord is Saturn; No planet is in the 
star or the sub of Sat. Hence the karakas of 
Sat, as the 8th sublord would remain for ever. 


DIMENSION III (TRANSIT) 


Since no one is linked with the 8th sublord 
in natal chart, the transit of all the planets while 
they happen to transit in the star of Saturn, would 
cause for damages and dangers to the native 
through their respective natal potentials. 


Planetary significations of the Asc related 
significations of the VIII bhava could be read with 
the use of the following example: 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 91 


SUN: Damages in bones, Tensions created 
by false prestige 

MOO: Damages in blood, Confused mind 

MAR: Damages in muscles, Adamant 

MER: Damages in nerves, Forgetfulness 

JUP: Damages caused by cholesterol, 
Sacrifices 

VEN: Damages in glands, Self pride 

SAT: Damages in skin, Inferiority complex 

RAH: Damages in respiratory organs, 
Pretending as a sacrificial person 

KET: Damages in digestive organs, Rumour 
monger 


Thus the readers can classify the 
remaining physical and mental significations of 
planets for the Asc related significations of the 
VIII bhava, for precise predictions. 


ASC & IX 


Loyalty, Sincerity, Wisdom, Higher 
education, Anus, Illegal affairs, Long journey, 
Communications, Messenger, Ambassador, 
Faith in god and moral values, Fortunes, 
Devotion, National leader, Thoughts, Deep 
sleep, Meditation, Research and discoveries, 
Creations and innovations, Counselling and 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 92 


worships, Foreign journeys etc are some of the 
IX house matters related to Asc. 


What the IX house would render on the Asc 


could be identified from the following list of 
priniciples of linkage: 


1,1: 
1,2: 


1,3: 
1,4: 
1:5: 
1,6: 
Maks 
1,8: 
1,9: 
1,10: 


1,11: 
1,12: 


Status through Higher education 
Income and status through higher 
education 

Publicity through higher education 
Acquisition of ancestral properties 
Winning ancestral respects 

Genetical diseases 

Getting married to a divorcee 
Punishments by law, return journeys 
Affectionate person through illegal affairs 
Holding higher posts through excellence 
in higher education 

Third wife or satisfactory illegal affairs 
Secret illegal affairs 


DIMENSION |: Potential 


In the example chart, the 9th sublord is 


Moon, which transits in Sun star and Rahu sub. 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 93 


Sun is the 6th sublord { Neutral to the Asc}, 
while Rahu is the 7th sublord { neutral to the 6th 
house }. 


They render success through hard labour 
and self-ventures. They do not favour the Asc for 
higher education. 


DIMENSION II: (DBAS) 


Moon is the sublord of 9th cusp. Venus is 
the only planet which is in the star of Moon. 


GRAHA KARAKA 
(PLANETARY SIGNIFICATIONS) 


Venus would lead to illegal activities, Sex 
education, Capacity to research, Pilgrimage, 
Obesity, Changes in the appearance etc. 


While the significations of Moon, as the 
sublord of the 9th cusp on Asc remain 
permanent, the significations of Venus would also 
come to stage during its DBA periods. 


DIMENSION III: (TRANSIT) 
While Venus is the only planet which is in 


the star of Moon, the 9th sublord, the remaining 
planets, according to their natal strength, would 


"Applications of Cuspal_Interlinks" 94 


react temporarily on the 9th house, while they 
happen to transit in the star of Moon . 


Planetary significations of the Asc related 


significations of the IX bhava could be read with 
the use of the following example: 


SUN: 


MOO: 


MAR: 


MER: 


JUP: 
VEN: 


SAT: 


RAH: 


KET: 


Unnatural growth in bones, Honest in 
research activities. 

High % of hemoglobin in blood, Speedy 
research mind. 

Well structured body by birth, Arrogant 
approach in research activities. 

Extra fingers in hands and legs, Sharp and 
mathematical approach in research 
activities. 

Obesity, Committed towards research 
Excessive secretion of glands, Artistic 
approach towards research 

Rough skin, Dedicated and hard working 
in research activities 

Masculine females / Feminine males, 
Team- spirited research mind 

Excessive appetite, Criminal intentions in 
research 


Thus the readers can classify the 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 95 


remaining physical and mental significations of 
planets for the Asc related significations of the 
IX bhava, for precise predictions. 


ASC&X 


Inclination to career development, 
Interest in profession, Respect, Lordship, 
Generosity, Name and Fame, Power and 
authority, Status and prestige, Excessive 
production by organs, Thighs, Incurable 
diseases, Awards from government, Progress 
and development, Permanency, Pilgrimage, 
Detatchment from material life etc of the 10th 
cusp are dependent on the Asc. 


What the X house would render on the Asc 
could be identified from the following list of 
priniciples of linkage: 


1,1: Status through profession 

1,2: Status and income through profession 

1,3: Statusful transfer in profession 

1,4: — Industrialist or in the field of transports 

1,5: Easy labour in profession with job 
satisfaction, love affairs at the place of 
profession. 

1,6: Success in professional life 


“Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 96 


1,7: Break in professional life caused by 
business partners, marrying a colleague 

1,8: Stress and strains in respectable posts, 
Incapability in managing etc. 

1,9: Honesty and credibility through 
profession, Illegal affairs at the place of 
profession. 

1,10: Status and Improvements in professional 
life 

1,11: Statusful profession with job satisfaction 

1,12: Secret activities in professional life, 
heavy work loads 


DIMENSION I: 


In the example chart, the 10th sublord 
Mercury is in Venus star, the 12th sublord, and 
in Rahu sub, the 7th sublord. 


Link of 12 & 7 is not a factor to favour 
the Asc, though the sub denies the star. The 
native could not make gains or reputation in his 
professional life during the DBAS periods of 
Mercury. 

DIMENSION II: (DBAS) 


Jupiter is the only resident in the star and 
sub of Mercury, the 10th sublord. 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 97 


GRAHA KARAKA 
(PLANETARY SIGNIFICATIONS) 


Jup: Generosity, status and honour, lack 
of interest in attending feasts, celebrations.etc. 


While the significations of Mercury would 
remain permanent as the 10th sublord on Asc, 
the significations of Jupiter could also come to 
play in the forefront during its DBA periods. 


DIMENSION III: (TRANSIT) 


The remaining planets would, according 
to their natal strength, would react on the X house, 
while they happen to transit in the star of 
Mercury 


Planetary significations of the Asc related 
significations of the X bhava could be read with 
the use of the following example: 


SUN: Majestic in appearance, Honest in 
.» Profession 
MOO: Fresh and neat in appearance, CR&ative 
works in profession 
MAR: Authoritative in appearance, Industrious 
in profession 


‘Applications of Cuspal_Interlinks" 98 

MER: Brisk in appearance, Active and brisky 
in profession 

JUP: Calm in appearance, Unique in profession 

VEN: Charm in appearance, Artistic in 
profession 

SAT: Dull in appearance, Lackadaisical 
approach in profession 

RAH: Artificial in appearance, Social approach 
in profession 

KET: Cruel in appearance, Criminal intentions 
in profession 


Thus the readers can classify the 
remaining physical and mental significations of 
planets for the Asc related significations of the X 
bhava, for precise predictions. 


ASC & XI 


The following siginifications of the 11th 
cusp, Friends, Elder brother, Supports, 
Son-in-law, Daughter-in-law, Confidence, 
Success, Resurrection, Renovations, Happiness 
andySatisfaction, Selfish attitude, Getrag 
discharged from hospital, Total cure from 
diseases, Wishes and wants, Friendships and 
Co-operations and fulfilment of desires, left hand, 
left ear, Knees, Body Functioning etc which are 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 99 
Asc dependent. 


What the XI house would render on the Asc 
could be identified from the following list of 
priniciples of linkage: 


1,1: A happy and joyous personality among 
friends 

1,2: A morale booster with helping nature 
towards friends 

1,3: | Confidence and support gained through 
friends 

1,4: Education as desired 

1,5: Sexual pleasures in love affairs, Interest 
in music, acting, politics etc. 

1,6: Bacterial infections, AIDS 

1,7: Marriage with a person of native's choice 

1,8: Suicides after failures in love affairs 

1,9: Illegal affairs with the lover, statusful 
education 

1,10: Getting expected postings as desired 

1,11: Self prides 

1,12: Secret activities of personal choice, 
dedication 


‘Applications of Cuspal_Interlinks" 100 
DIMENSION I: 


In the example chart, Jupiter is the 11th 
sublord. 


Its starlord Mercury is the sublord of 2, 4 
& 10. {Neutral and unfavourable significations 
to the spiritual cycle of Asc } 


Fulfilments of desires by acquiring 
lands, buildings, vehicles and income through 
profession are assured to the Asc.. 


Mixed favours could be experienced 
during the DBA periods of the 11th sublord 
Jupiter. 

DIMENSION Il (DBAS): 


Jupiter is the 11th sublord; Sun and 
Saturn are the planets, which are in the sub of 
Jupiter. There is no planet which is in the star of 
Jupiter. 

GRAHA KARAKA 

(PLANETARY SIGNIFICATIONS) 


Sun: Fame, success in attempts and court 
cases, satisfaction, cure from diseases etc. 


Saturn: Delayed success, liar, doubting 
natures, cure from diseases, participation in 


" Applications of Cuspal_Interlinks” 101 


celebrations, feasts and festivals etc. 


As the significations of Jupiter as the 11th 
sublord on Asc would remain permanent, the 
significations of Sun & Sat would also come to 
the forefront duing their respective DBA periods. 


DIMENSION III: (TRANSIT) 


The remaining planets would, according 
to their natal strength, would react on the 11th 
house, while they happen to transit in the star of 
Jupiter. 


Planetary significations of the Asc related 
significations of the XI bhava could be read with 
the use of the following example: 


SUN: Natural strength of bones, Selfish in 
satisfactions 

MOO: Natural resistance power in blood, Easily 
satisfied 

MAR: Natural strength in muscles, Greedy in 
satisfactions 

MER: Natural strength in nerves, Pride in 
satisfactions 

JUP: Natural strength through fats, Generous 
in satisfactions 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 102 


VEN: Good secretion from Glands, Joyful in 
satisfactions 

SAT: Attractive skin, Self-consoling in 
satisfactions 

RAH: Attractive structure of body, Strange 
feelings in satisfactions 

KET: Lean and attractive body, Expressive in 
satisfactions 


Thus the readers can classify the 
remaining physical and mental significations of 
planets for the Asc related significations of the 
XI bhava, for precise predictions. 


ASC & XIl 


Loss of materials and_ relations, 
Troubles, Hurdles, Enforcements, Controls, 
Expenditures, Threat from enemies, 
Imprisonments, Jealousy, Sabotage, 
Disobedience, Exile, Self-destruction, Life at 
foreign countries, Foot, Beds, Dreams and 
visions, Left eye, Pessimisitic thoughts, 
Malfunctioning of the body, Loss of organs, Hard 
labour, Being deceived, Separations, Going 
abroad, Bad luck, Vengeance, Cruel thoughts, 
Pervertions, Amputation, Surgery, Cheating and 
absconaing are some of the 12th house 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 103 
significations that are related to Asc. 


What the XII house would render on the 


Asc could be identified from the following list of 
priniciples of linkage: 


1,1: 
1,2: 
1,3: 
1,4: 
1,5: 
1,6: 


1,7: 


1,8: 
1,9: 


1,10: 
1,11: 


1,12: 


Status and respect through secret 
activities 

Monetary benefits and status earned 
through secret efforts 

Self confidence and courageous secret 
activities 

Properties earned through secret 
activities 

Learning secret arts, secret affairs 
Secret diseases 

Motivations and secret activities to 
damage the reputation of the native 
Suicide resulted by secret activities 
Illegal affairs or research through secret 
activities, investigations 

Respects earned through secret activities 
Satisfaction in self-desires through 
secret activities 

Absconding due to secret activities 


‘Applications of Cuspal_Interlinks" 104 
DIMENSION |: 


In the example chart, the 12th sublord is 
Venus which is in the star of Moon, the 9th sublord; 
and is in its own sub and thus linked back to the 
12th house. { Not so favourable to the Asc } 


i) Ability to disclose secrecy and 
inclination to invent. 


ii) Secret and illegal affairs. 
iii) Law-abiding (9) citizen. 
iv) Long journeys. 


This could be possible during the DBAS 
periods of Venus, the 12th cuspal sublord. 


DIMENSION II (DBAS) 


Venus is the sublord of the 12th house. 
Planets Sun, Mercury, Venus & Ketu are either 
in the star or the sub of Venus. 


GRAHA KARAKA 
(PLANETARY SIGNIFICATIONS) 


Sun: Disturbances from government, 
secret activities, troubles from women in 
government service etc. 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks” 105 


Mercury: Research in mathematics, 
sharp Instruments, thoughts around stories, 
secret notes etc. 


Venus: Secret activities through women, 
research etc. 


Ketu: All kinds of anti-social activities, 
cheating, illegal contacts with widows etc. 


While the significations of Venus as 
sublord of the XII house on Asc remains 
permanent, the significations of Sun, Mercury & 
Ketu. would come to the forefront during their 
respective DBA periods. 


DIMENSION III: (TRANSIT) 


The remaining planets, according to their 
natal strength, would temporarily react on the 
12th house, while they happen to transit in the 
star of Venus. 


Planetary significations of the Asc related 
significations of the XII bhava could be read with 
the use of the following example: 


SUN: Weakness in bones, Loss of prestige and 
status 
MOO: Weakness in blood, Loss of memory 


"Applications of Cuspal_Interlinks" 106 

MAR: Weakness in muscles, Loss of energy 

MER: Weakness in nerves, Loss of sensing 
capacity 

JUP: Weakness due to fat contents, Loss of 
pride 

VEN: Weakness in glands, Loss of enjoyment 

SAT: Weak skin, Loss in strenuous efforts 

RAH: Weakness in respiratory system, 
Alienated from society 

KET: Weakness in digestive system, Inability to 
maintain privacy. 


Thus the readers can classify the 
remaining physical and mental significations of 
planets for the Asc related significations of the 
XlIl bhava, for precise predictions. 


REACTIONS: 


Asc has a permanent linkage with the 6th 
house and the 7th house. But, when its sublord 
Mars happens to transit in various stars other 
than that of Sun or Rahu, it is bound by the 
respective starlords and sublords to act for them 
and to react on the cusps to which its starlords 
or sublords are the cuspal sublords. What the 
Asc would render on the remaining cusps, as 
reactions, could be aerived from the following 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 107 
list of principles: 


2,1 
2,2 
23 
2,4 
2,5 
2,6 
2,7 
2,8 
2,9 
2,10: 
2,11: 


2,12: 


Asc on the Il house 


Self-pride in speech 

Spontaneous flow of excellent speech 
Counselling and dynamic in conversing 
Educative speech 
Artistic style of speech 
Threatening and argumentative in speech 
Attracting the audience by speech 
Showing traces of fear while conversing 
Memorable and spiritual speech 
Respectable speech 

Harmonious and happy, broad-minded 
speech 

Discontinuity in conversation 


Asc, as seen before, carries 6 & 7 with it 


in this chart. So during the DBA periods of Mars, 
while it transits in the star of Mercury, the Il 
sublord, would force the native to behave as an 
argumentative person and would threaten 
others through his speech. 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks” 108 


3,1 
3,2 
3,3 
3,4 
3,5 
3,6 
3,7 


3,8: 
3,9: 


3,10 
3,11 
3,12 


Asc on the Ill house: 


Steady mind 

Fluctuating mind for short-term gains 
Untiring efforts 

Mental aptitude towards education 
Mental stability and wisdom 

Mental toughness and success 
Courage gained from the support from 
society 

Fearful and a coward 

Courage and confidence to have research 
mind 

Respectable mental balance 
Confidence in mind to win challenges 
Secret fears 


Asc carries 6 & 7 with it in this chart. Thus 


during the DBA periods of Mars, while it transits 
in its own star as the III sublord, would make the 
native to get the needed help from others to gain 
mental toughness. 


"Applications of Cuspal_Interlinks" 


4,1: 
4 2: 
43: 
44: 
45: 
46: 
4,7: 


4 8: 
49: 


4,10: 
4,11: 


4,12: 


Asc on the IV house: 


Status through ownership of LVP 

Status through monetary returns from LVP 
Status through real-estates 

Status as owner of estates and farms 
Status as owner of Lodges, Marriage Halls 
Status as owner of Hospitals and Hotels 
Status as leader of a village or as a public 
servant 

Status as a dedicated person 

Status as an excellent teacher or as a 
Temple trustee 

Status as an Industrialist 

Status as an Educationist or as a 
Parliamentarian 

Status as a counsellor in secrecy and as 
a research person 


Asc carries 6 & 7 with it in this chart. Thus 


during the DBA periods of Mars, while it 
happens to transit in the star of Mercury the IV 
sublord, would enable the native to behave like 
a leader among his friends and associates. 


“Applications of Cuspal Interlinks” 110 


5,1: 
5,2: 
5,3: 
5,4: 
55: 
5,6: 
Lom ge 


5,8: 


5,9: 
5,10: 


5.11: 


5,12: 


Asc on the V house: 


Status in the field of Sports, Games, 
Arts and Culture 

Status as critic or commentator in the 
fields of music & acting. 

Status as a writer 

Status as a craftsman 

Status as a counsellor in music and 
acting 

Status for the success in the fields of 
music and acting 

Status as an entertainer in music and 
acting 

Disrespect as a notorious personality in 
the fields of music and acting 
Status as a spiritualist or as a philosopher 
Status as a professional in music or as 
an actor 

Status gained from the record-breaking 
performance in music or in acting skills 
Status for the innovations in the fields of 
music and acting 


Asc carries 6 & 7 with it in this chart. Thus 


during the DBA periods of Mars, while it 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 111 
happens to transit in the star of Jupiter, the V 


sublord, would provide the native his due status 
in the fields of his artistic interests. 


6,1: 


6,2: 
6,3: 
6,4: 
6,5: 


Asc on the VI house: 


Status as a body-builder or as a beauty 
queen 

Status as a highly paid employee. 

Status for excellence in martial arts 
Status as an industrial worker 

Status as an employee with easy 
workloads (Supervisors) 


6,6: Status as a servant in the field of diseases 


6,7: 
6,8: 
6,9: 
6,10: 
6,11: 
6,12: 


(Doctors) 

Status as a self-entrepreneur 
Disrespect as a daily labourer 
Status as a corporate consultant 
Status as a manager 

Status through remarkable service 
Status as a person of foreign service 


Asc carries 6 & 7 with it in this chart. Thus 


during the DBA periods of Mars, while it transits 
in the star of Sun, the VI sublord, would enable 
the native to gain practical experience in 
managing diseases and a little bit of working 


“Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 112 
knowledge in diet controls. 


7,¥8 


ype 


7,3: 


7,4 
75 
7,6 
Ta 


7,8: 
7,9: 
7,10: 
rag 


7,12: 


Asc on the VII house: 


Status gained through the Partner/Wife/ 
Husband 

Status through the financial background 
of the P/W/H 

Status gained from harmonious personal 
life (Best couple award) 

Status gained in joint family 

Status for the happy married tife 
Disrespect as a divorcee 

Status for the public relations of the 
native 

Disrespect as threatened by P/W/H 
Status for being a person of integrity 
Status through partnership business 
Status gained through friends and 
social relations 

Disrespect in social relations 


Asc carries 6 & 7 with it in this chart. 


Thus during the DBA periods of Mars, while it 
happens to transit in the star of Rahu, the VII 
sublord, would cause for disrespect to the 
native for the differences of opinions with the 


i) 


"Applications of Cuspal_Interlinks" 11 
society or with his wife. 


Asc on the VIII house: 


8,1: Long life 

8,2: Disrespect by way of loss of savings for 
unexpected personal requirements 

8,3: Disrespect caused in changing the 
residence 

8,4: Unexpected failure in the productive 
organs of the body 

8,5: Unexpected romance 

8,6: Sudden increase in diseases 

8,7: Unexpected quarrels with others 

8,8: Stress and severe pains and sufferings 

8,9: Unexpected physical changes 

8,10: Status gained through unexpected 
professional opportunities 

8,11: Unexpected success in self-efforts 

8,12: Loss of reputation and unexpected 
problems 


Asc carries 6 & 7 with it in this chart. Thus 
during the DBA periods of Mars, while it 
happens to transit in the star of Saturn, the VIII 
sublord, would trouble the native with sudden 
increase in diseases. 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks” 114 


9,1: 
9,2: 


9,3: 
94: 
95: 


9,6: 
9,7: 
9,8: 
9,9: 
9,10: 
9,11: 
9,12: 


Asc on the IX house: 


Status through higher education 

Status gained from ancestral gold and 
valuables 

Status through changes and transfers 
Status through ancestral properties 
Status as a vedic scholar, a priest or a 
trustee 

Status through successful agreements 
Status through international relationships 
Disrespect caused by cheatings 

Status gained through integrity 

Status through professional education 
Status as a scholar or as an educationist 
Status as a foreigner 


Asc carries 6 & 7 with it in this chart. Thus 


during the DBA periods of Mars, while it 
happens to transit in the star of Moon, the IX 
sublord, would enable the native to succeed in 
agreements to gain due respect. 


10,1: 


Asc on the X house: 


Status through profession 


10,2: Status gained from professional income 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 115 


10,3: Status through recognitions in profession 

10,4: Status for the involvments in agriculture/ 
farms 

10,5: Disrespect caused by professional hurdles 

10,6: Consistency in professional life 

10,7: Status through partners 

10,8: Dedication in professional committments 

10,9: Disrespect in professional life 

10,10: Leader of a professional team 

10,11: Status in a record-breaking professional 
performance 

10,12: Status through secrecy in profession 


Ascewhich carries 6 & 7 with it in this chart, 
during the DBA periods of Mars, while it 
happens to transit in the star of Mercury, the X 
sublord, would enable the native to have a 
mental inclination to maintain consistency in 
professional life. 


Asc on the XI house: 


11,1. Status by success through own ideas 
11,2 Status gained from immense wealth 
11,3 Status through bold efforts 

11,4 Status through own properties 

11,5. Status forthe skill of imagination 


"Applications _of _Cuspal_Interlinks« 116 


11,6: 
Vist 
11,8: 


11,9: 

11,10: 
11,11: 
11,12: 


Status through self efforts 

Attracting others to personal objectives 
Sufferings due to failures in fulfilment of 
desires 

Status through excellence in education 
Status through honorary posts 

Status as a succesful person 

Status as a man of secrecy as desired 
by the native 


Asc which carries 6 & 7 with it ip this chart, 


during the DBA periods of Mars, while it 
happens to transit in the star of Jupiter, the XI 
sublord, would enable the native to gain due 


status 


12,1: 
12,2: 


12,3: 
12,4: 


1235: 
12,6: 


through self efforts. 
Asc on the XII house: 


Status through researches 

Change in status by liquidating the 
capital 

Status by donating the capital 

Notorious for subversive acts and for 
secret plans 

Disrespect caused through secret affairs 
Disrespect caused through secret 
diseases 


"Applications of Cuspal_Interlinks" 117 

12,7: Disrespect in secret activities 

12,8: Disrespect caused by punishments 

12,9: Responsible posts with status 

12,10: Status through successive professions 

12,11: Status gained from successful secret 
activities 

12,12: Disrespect caused by absconding 


Asc carries 6 & 7 with it in this chart. Thus 
during the DBA periods of Mars, while it 
happens to transit in the star of Venus, the XIl 
sublord, would cause for disrespect to the native 
by way of secret diseases. 


CONCLUSION: 

Notes: 

1.Sun is in the star of Venus (12) and in 
the sub of Jupiter (5 & 11). Now the 
significations of Sun, on Asc during its DBAS 
periods, as it is linked with 5, 11 & 12 would 
have to effect on Asc. But some of these 
significations may remain contradictory with 
each other. If so, how would Sun perform 
during its DBA periods ? 


2. During its Bhukthi (Minimum 3 months 
and 18 days), since it is a fast moving planet, 
the planet Sun would be transiting in at least 
9 consecutive stars. It means it would be 


"Applications of Cuspal_Interlinks" 118 
transiting in the stars of all the planets. 


Here comes the role of transit. If Sun 
transits in the star of Jupiter, then significations of 
5 & 11 onAscwould be more; If it transits in the 
star of Venus, then siginifications of the 12th house 
on Asc would be more. 


3. If Sun transits neither in the star of 
Jupiter nor in the star of Venus, then what would 
happen? As per the favourable position to the 
prime significations of Sun (5, 6, 11 & 12) by 
the concerned transit starlord of Sun would come 
to the forefront. These combined significations 
would lead to complexities. As | fear that it may 
divert and confuse the readers, | would prefer 
to explain the complexities of cuspal 
significations in a different book. 


4. From the given example, the 
combined and the complex siginifications on 
Asc (Excluding the reactions on the independant 
siginifications of the remaining 11 houses ) of 
the nine planets could be listed as below. 


SUN: 5,6,11 &12 

MOO: 6, 7&9 

MAR: 1, 3,6&7 

RAH: 6&7+8 (Residence, since it is a node) 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks” 119 
JUP: 2,4, 5,10 & 11 

SAT: 1, 3,5,8& 11 

MER: 2, 4, 7, 10 & 12 

KET: 1,3 & 12+ 2 (Residence, since it is a node) 
VEN: 9&12 


Thus we have read the methodology of 
identifying the Asc related matters of various 
cusps and their positions of favour to the Asc. 
The DBAS periods of the respective cuspal 
sublords would render their due significations to 
the Asc accordingly. 


Thus all the 12 cusps and all the 9 
planets, from the moment of birth to the time of 
death, without likes or dislikes, as per their 
bindings of cuspal interlinks, are always acting 
on the Asc simultaneously. 


‘Applications of Cuspal_Interlinks" 120 


ll HOUSE 
HOUSE OF FINANCE 


Every house has its own bundle of 
significations. These significations are 
interwoven with the remaining 11 houses so as 
to form the interlinks. The karaka of Finance of 
the Il house or the karaka of Arts and 
Culture of the 5th house or the karaka of 
Profession of the 10th house could be 
identified in all the 12 bhavas or houses. It is 
true that the Il house is the house of finance; but 
at the same time its significations have been 
distributed to all the remaining 11 houses and 
they would be the "UPA KARAKAS" or its 
auxiliary significations. 


In medical science, primarily, the 
general condition of the patient is ensured 
before going in for specific treatments to a 
particular organ of the body. Likewise, 
identifying the specific significations of a 
particular house, with respect to its natural club, 
in formulating a methodology of analyzing a 
chart, would indeed be the scientific and the 
logical way of study as per cuspal interlinks. For 
example, Il house when in the company of 6, 
10 & 11 means finance and fortunes. When in 
the company of 7 & 12, it stands to create 
dangers to the life of a person. 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks” 121 


In anatomy classes, to gain academic 
knowledge, the medical students would be 
supplied with a piece of human leg or hand, or 
brain or lungs of a corpse. But, in practice, 
doctors would not attempt to make a heart 
surgery by physically detaching the heart from 
the body. Thus to simplify the procedure of 
learning, the combined significations are 
deliberately and artificially being isolated here for 
study. But please remember that while 
doing so, understandably, this artificial 
isolation would tend to carry certain 
ambiguities. 


1. With its significations, every house 
would surely act on the relatively independant 
siginifications of the other 11 houses. 


2. With their own significations, the 
remaining 11 houses would definitely act and 
influence on the relatively independant 
siginifications of the particular house under study. 


In the earlier chapter for the Asc, we have 
studied the significations of all the 12 houses, 
that are meant only for shaping the Asc. That 
is why we have named those significations as 
the Asc related or Asc dependant significations. 


There are quite a few significations of the 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 122 


Il house that are almost unrelated to the Asc 
such as money transactions, salary, profit or loss, 
jewellery, gems, documents, metals, negotiable 
instruments and sources of income etc. With 
these significations, the Il house acts on the other 
11 houses as it receives reactions from them in 
return. 


The following are the general principles, 
when the sublord of the concerned cusp 
reside in the star or sub or subsub of the cuspal 
sublord of the II cusp. 


Ascon Il: Money from self efforts. 

Il onl: Money as bank balance, cash, gold, 
gems in hand. 

on If: Money as negotiable instruments 

and from agreements. 

IV. ontk Money as properties. 

Von th: Money earned through commissions, 
sports and gambling. 

VI onl: Money through loans, service. 

Vil on tll: Money through overdrafts and 
cash-credits from banks 

Vill on Il: Money donated, insurance claims, 
bribes, provident fund, unexpected 
money 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 123 


IX on Il: Money through ancestral properties. 

X onll: Money awarded, income through 
profession. 

XI on Il: Money received as expected. 

XII on Il: Money as returns from Investments 
and lendings, secret or black money, 
Money from treasures. 


It has been emphasized in PCI as well 
as in the introduction of this book that the 
linkage of a cusp to 1,3, 5, 9& 11 to itself favours 
the house and its linkages to 4,7,8 & 12 unfavours 
it and houses 2, 6, & 10 would require more 
efforts to become favourable. As such linkages 
of the sublord of the II cusp through its starlord, 
sublord, or subsublord to houses 2,4,6,10 & 
12 is favourable, and its linkages to houses 5, 8 
& 9 will be unfavourable and its linkage to 3, 7, 
11 would remain neutral. The link with the Asc, 
though it becomes the 12th to the Il, is NOT 
unfavourable because it is an exceptional 
exception. 


The Il house when linked i.e., when the 
sublord of the II cusp is in the star or the sub of 
each of the other 11 houses, it would 
register its reactions on the respective houses 
which are as follows: 


"Applications of Cuspal_Interlinks" 124 

llon Asc: Status through money. 

Il on Il: Improvement in the financial position. 

Il on Ill: Preserving the present financial 
conditions. 

ll on IV: Multiplication of money. 

Il onV: Loss of money in gamblings or 
transfer of money in the name of 
partner or wife 

I! on VI: Financial support to self endeavours 

Il on VII: Financial assistance to partners 

Ilon VIII: Money that is outstanding or spent for 
insurance 

Il on IX: Financial crisis 

Il on X: Profession in financial institutions 

Il on XI: Immense flow of money 

Il on XII: Increase in the investments. 


POTENTIAL of the II house: 


In this example chart, Mercury, the Il 
sublord, is in Venus star and Rahu sub. Venus is 
the cuspal sublord of the 12th house. 
Linkage of the Il cuspal sublord to the XIl house 
means a position of gain to the Il house. But 
Mercury is in the sub of Rahu, the 7th sublord, 
which becomes as 8th to the 12th house, to 
negate this favour. 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 125 


In response, the II house, on 12, would 
increase the investments & expenditures which 
makes the native to become incapable of 
saving his own income. 


Combination of 12 & 7 would drive the 
native to suffer from losses through wasteful 
investments and extravagant expenditures etc. 
The persons whom the native happens to meet, 
would gain through him. Possibilities of his 
money being stolen, could not be ruled out. 


ii) The planets which happen to be in the 
star or sub of Mercury, the Il sublord, are 
empowered to operate for the II house.(Please 
refer the chart) 


Jupiter is in the star & sub of Mercury. 
Rahu is in the subsub of Mercury. 


Star shows the involvement and Sub 
confirms and favours the said involvement. Hence 
Jupiter is a strong significator to execute the Il 
house significations. During the DBAS periods of 
Jupiter the native would enjoy the benefits of the 11 
house. Jupiter, the permanent significator of the II 
house, is the sublord of houses 5 & 11, to mean 
that the native could gain income through 
brokerage or from friends and children. The 
involvements in the fields of speculation and arts 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks” 126 
can also bring him some success. 


This is the general way of derivation. But, 
friends, life is not so simple to be explained within 
12 such formulae. The native is also able to gain 
a reasonable income during the DBAS periods 
of the remaining planets, other than Mercury, the 
Il sublord and Jupiter, the resident in the star and 
sub of Mercury. How could it be possible? It is 
because all the 12 house somehow contribute 
for money through multiple means. Even in a 
poor man's life, all the significations ofthe 12 
houses, either jointly or separately, operate on 
few occassions to give him some financial 
reliefs. If so, 


1) What are the factors to make such things 
possible? 

2) How could it be possible? 

3) When is it possible? 


On the reverse, the Il house does not 
remain idle and dormant. It also contributes 
something or the other to the remaining cusps, 
with its tool, "MONEY". It induces the Asc to be a 
money minded person, to save the income as 
negotiable instruments, to purchase properties, 
to provide a financial platform to gamble, to 
deposit for contracts, to enter into partnerships, 
to pay for his insurance premium, to enter into 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 127 
export business, to work in a financial 


institution, to fulfil his materialistic satisfactions, 
to increase the investments etc. 


Thus with its own potential, the II house, 


i) Acts on the remaining 11 houses. 
ii) Receives reactions from them in return. 


Thus, only when we comprehensively 
study the potentials of the remaining 11 houses 
to react on the matters of the Il house, we could 
identify the general principles that would suitably 
be applied for the chart under study. 


The ROLE of TRANSIT: 


The transits of the sublords of the 
remaining 11 houses in the star ofthe Il cusp 
would act for the money transactions 
according to their karakas of Cuspal & Planetary 
natures but not withstanding the potential of the 
Il cusp in the chart. 


On the reverse, the Il sublord, Mercury, 
with 12 & 7 in its bag, during its transit in the 
respective stars of the remaining cusps, would 
register its reactions with the significations of 
finance to those cusps, where the starlord of its 
transit is the natal cuspal sublord. 


“Applications of Cuspal Interlinks” 128 


STUDY OF A HOROSCOPE BY 
USING CUSPAL INTERLINKS THEORY 


ACCURATE HOROSCOPE CAST 
STEP 1 WITH NEWCOMBE AYANAMSA 


DETERMINE POTENTIAL OF 
ASG & ASC-RELATED MATTERS 
STEP 2 OF REMAINING 11 CUSPS 


DETERMINE POTENTIAL FOR 
STEP 3 UNRELATED MATTERS OF 11 
HOUSES TO THE ASCENDANT 


YES OR NO TO 
STEP 4 TO THE EVENTS 


. PLANETARY SIGNIFICATIONS 
STEP 5 CONFINED TO THEIR CUSPAL 
INTER LINKS 


SPECIFIC INTERPRETATIONS 
STEP 6 FROM GENERAL PRINCIPLES 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks” 129 


DETERMINE POTENTIAL OF 
OF DBAS PERIODS 


STEP 7 
: = ae . —y 
STEP 8 FIND FAVOURABLE TRANSIT } 
FOR SPECIFIC STUDY, 
STEPS(2-8)| LIMIT TO RELEVANT CUSPS 
(Eg: 5, 7, 11 FOR MARRIAGE) 
REPEAT THE SAME METHOD 
STEPS(1-8)| | FOR HORARY STUDIES 


* 


ASC on Il: 
What does the Asc render to the II house? 


The Asc sublord Mars is in the star of Sun, 
the 6th sublord and in the sub of Rahu, the 7th 
sublord. Generally speaking, Asc has no direct 
linkage with the Il house. But Asc will get a 
linkage with the II house, when its sublord Mars, 
happens fo transit in the star or sub of Mercury, 
the [Il sublord. 


Asc, as an exception would favour the II 
house though it is the12th house to it. In this 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 130 


example Asc has the permanent linkage of 6 & 7 
with it. Houses 6 & 7 would become houses 5 & 
6 to the Il house which would stand to favour the 
Il house. 


Principles of linkages of the Asc on the II 
house are: 


2,1 Improvement in oratorical skills 

2,2 Income through self efforts 

2,3 Accumulation of valuables through self 
efforts 

2,4 Properties and income through self efforts 

2,5 Singer through self efforts 

2,6 Service through self efforts 

2,/_ Savings at other's hands through self 
efforts 

2,8: Voluntary donations 

2,9: Voluntary gifts and trust activities 

2,10: Professional success through self efforts 

2,11: Expected monetary gains in self efforts 

2,12: Voluntary Investments of savings 


Now in the example chart, the Asc sublord, 
as it carries 6 & 7 with it, would enable the native 
to gain financial assistance in the form of 
borrowings from the society. This could be 


“Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 131 


experienced during the DBA periods of Mars, 
while it transits in the star or sub of Mercury. Since 
Mars is the karaka planet for brothers, copper 
and for stating false reasons, the sources also 
could be identified. 

ll on Asc: 


(Reaction of the Il house with the karaka 
of Finance) 


General principles of linkage of the Il 
house on the Asc are: 


1,1: Prestige, Selfishness & Greediness 
in money matters 

1,2: Income through self endeavours 

1,3: Courage and confidence to build financial 
strength 

1,4: Status and income through properties 

1,5: Nature to gamble or tendency to take risks 
for income 

1,6: Gains from litigations and competitions 

1,7: Income through opposite sex, society or 
spouse. 

1,8: Money through illegal sources, 
unexpected income 

1,9: Income through foreign contacts or 


"Applications of Cuspal_Interlinks" 132 
ancestral properties 

1,10: Capitalizing the authority for financial 
objectives 

1,11: Accumulation of money to the satisfaction, 
by own efforts 

1,12: Own efforts to preserve money secretly, 
Spendthrift in nature 


In this example chart, the Il sublord 
Mercury is in the star of Venus, which is the 12 th 
cuspal sublord. 12th becomes the 12th to the 
Asc. But, Mercury is in the sub of Rahu, the 7th 
sublord. 12th house effect is thus negated by the 
7th house. Hence, the spendthrift nature of the 
native would frequently be in check by his wife 
or by the society in which he belongs to. 


llonIl 


Mercury, the Il sublord, transits in the star 
of Venus, the 12th sublord. 12th is 11th to the Il 
cusp, and is thus showing a favourable scope. 2 
on 12 would denote increased investments & 
expenditures or probably the source which drives 
the native to make extravagant expenditures. 7th 
house is a house of danger to the 12th house. 
Hence the investments made would not provide 
due returns. The link of 12 & 7 would force the 
native to incur losses. The possibilities of his 


‘Applications of Cuspal_Interlinks" 133 
money being stolen could not be ruled out. 


General Principles of linkage of the Il 
house, to itself are: 


2,1: Utilizing the self earned money to himself 

2,2: Savings as liquid cash 

2,3: Savings as nagotiable instruments 

2,4: Savings as properties 

2,5: Extravagant expenditures through income 

2,6: Profits earned through deposits 

2,7: Saving the income with others 

2,8: Lending the income for earning interest 

2,9: Inadequate income 

2,10: Income through profession 

2,11: Sound financial status 

2,12: Dividends of investments, income through 
2nd profession 


Mercury, the Il cuspal sublord, would 
render the following results to the native during 
its DBA periods. 


Mercury denotes modern appliances, hire 
purchases etc. Hence the nature of 
expenditures would be in the form of purchases 
of unnecessary appliances. 


"Applications of Cuspal_Interlinks" 134 

Jupiter is the only planet that is in the 
star of Mercury, the Il sublord. Jupiter is the 
sublord of 5 & 11. Income and savings would 
be possible as brokerage or from his children or 
through friends. Involvements in the field of arts 
and entertainments would improve his financial 
position. 


The above could be possible during the 
DBA periods of Jupiter, the karaka planet for 
gold and higher denominations of money etc., 
and the native would transact his money in the 
above modes. 
Hon II: 


Ill house is second house to the II house, 
a neutral position to the Il. In the given example, 
Ill sublord Mars, is in the star of Sun, the 6th 
sublord. 6th house is a house of favour to the Il 
house. Mars is in the sub of Rahu, the 7th sublord. 
7th house would remain neutral to the 6th house. 
Hence, in this example chart, the II house would 
be favoured by the III house. 


Principles of linkage of the IIl house on 
the II house are: 


2,1: Breach and breaks in negotiations and 
agreements 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 135 


2,2. 


2,3. 
2,4: 


2,5. 
2,6: 
oe 
2,8: 
2,9: 
2,10: 
2,11: 


2,12: 


Monetary gains through negotiations and 
agreements 

Receipt of cheques 

Agreements on lands, vehicles & 
properties 

Writing poems and articles 

Receipt of income through agreements 
Harrassing the opponents through letters 
and correspondence 

Unexpected profits through 
correspondence 

Financial crisis resulted by agreements 
Promotions 

Receipt of large sums of money in single 
payments, as desired 

Loss of money in agreements 


In this example chart, the Ill house by its 


link of 6 & 7, would stand favour to the Il house 
to gain through will, documents, writings, 
agreements and negotiable instruments etc. 


Ill sublord would steadily increase the 


small loans of the native (6) and finally drag him 
into troubles(7) as a debtor. Ill suvlord Mars 
would also enable the native to gain through 
contracts (6). The above would happen to the 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 136 


native during the DBAS periods of Mars, while 
it happens to transit in the star of Mercury, the II 
sublord. 


llon Ill: 


General principles of linkage of the Il 


house on the Ill house are: 


3,1 
3,2 
3,3 
3,4 
3,5 


3,6: 
3,7: 
3,8: 
3,9: 


3,10: 
SLi: 


3,12: 


Earnings through courageous efforts 
Gains through communications 
Changing stances for financial gains 
Income through tenders and contracts 
Income through lottery, poetry and articles 
published in journals 

Loans through agreements, profits 
through promotions 

Financial agreements with banks or 
financial institutions 

Mental depressions in financial matters 
Earnings through ancestral documents 
Profits through business contracts 
Financial gains in communications, 
advertisements etc 

Profits through sales 


The link of Il house is to 12 & 7. Il sublord 


does not reside in the star, or sub or subsub of 


‘Applications of Cuspal_Interlinks" 137 


the Ill house. But even then, as a naturally 
unfavourable house to negate the matters ofthe 
Ill house, would lead the native to lose his 
jewels, documents etc, during the DBA periods 
of Mercury and while it happens to transit in the 
star of Mars. 


IV on Il 


IV house is a house of favour to the Il 
house. 4th sublord Mercury is in the star of 
Venus, the 12th sublord (11th to the II) but in the 
sub of Rahu, the 7th sublord (8th to the 12). Sub 
denies whatever the star intends to provide. 
Hence the IV house would modify into a neutral 
house to the II house. 


Principles of linkage of the IV house on 
the II house are: 


2,1: Residence as a palace 

2,2: Owns a Bungalow 

2,3: Sale/ Letting the bungalow for hire 

2,4: Income through bungalow or two 
bungalows or godowns 

2,5: Marriage halls or Cinema theatres, 
Guest houses, Resorts 

2,6: Industries and buildings let out for rent 

2,7: Taking charge of LVPs owned by others 


"Applications_of Cuspal_Interlinks” 138 


2,8: Godown of scraps or waste materials or 
damaged articles 

2,9: Lease of bungalow 

2,10: Large scale industries, builders and 
contractors 

2,11: Bungalow at a disputed place 

2,12: Rest house, hospitals 


Because of the linkage with 12 & 7, the 
unfavourable combination to the Il house, the 
sublord of the 4th cusp, would remain as an 
impotent spectator. 4th on 12 & 7 (1 & 6 of the 
7th house) would mean gains to the partners. 
4th with its adverse link, has also denied the 
native to enjoy any scholarship. Hence the 
native would incur losses by attempting into 
ventures in LVHP during the DBAS periods of 
Mercury, while it happens to transit in its own star. 


llon IV: 


General principles of linkage of the Il 
house, on the IV house are: 
4,1: Income with status through Land, 


Vehicles, Houses and Properties (LVHP) 
4,2: Income through construction of houses or 
production 
4,3: Financial gains as brokerage in real 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 139 


estates 
4,4: Financing for LVHP 
4,5: Gains through Casinos, Cinema Halls 
4,6: Profits in services in LVHP 
4,7: Bank loans on properties 
4,8: Insurance claims out of accidents 
4,9: Subsidy, royalty and scholarships in LVHP 
4,10: Income through profession in LVHP 
4,11: Profits from the litigations in properties 
4,12: Profits and gains through investments 
in LVHP 


The bag of Il contains only 12 & 7. llisa 
favourable house to the IV Hence it would 
induce the native to make extravagant 
investments on properties which carry very 
limited scope for liquidation during the DBA 
periods of Mercury while it transits in its own star. 


VonI: 


V house is 4th to the Il and hence a 
naturally unfavourable house. In the given 
example, Jupiter, the 5th sublord resides in 
Mercury star & sub. Mercury is the sublord of 
houses 2, 4 & 10, which are 1, 3 & 7 to the Il 
house. So, the natural enemy has become a very 
favourable friend indeed. 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 140 


Principles of linkage of the V house on 


the Il house are: 


2%: 
2,2. 


2,3: 


2,4: 
2,5: 


2,6: 
2,7: 


2,8: 
2,9: 
2,10: 
2,11: 
2,12: 


Loss of own money in gamblings 

Profits through commissions and in 
gamblings 

Multiplication of income through 
commissions and speculations 
Collection of artistically valuable goods 
Monetary benefits in A & C fields 
(Astrologer and Cine Actors) 

Income by rendering service in’A & C fields 
Abduction of financial gains by the 
partner 

Losses in gamblings 

Financial troubles in commissions 
Monetary gains in A & C fields 

Immense wealth in A & C fields 

Losses in A & C fields 


In this example, since the 5th house is 


linked to 2, 4 & 10, would enable the native to 
gain commissions without much physical 
hardships during the DBAS periods of Jupiter, 
while it happens to transit in the star of Mercury. 


"Applications of Cuspal_Interlinks" 141 


II on V: 


General Principles of linkage of the Il 


house with the V house are: 


5,1: 


5,2: 
5,3: 
5,4: 
55: 
5,6: 


5,7: 
58: 
5,9: 
SO: 


5,11: 
5,12: 


Gains in Sports, Games, Arts and Cultural 
fields (SG & AC) 

Income through singing songs 

Income from writings, drawings 

Income from craft works 

Income from artistic performances 
Service and income in the fields of 
SG&AC 

Gains as an agent or manager in SG & 
AC/ Trade unions 

Gains through sexy and obscene dances 
and speech 

Income through advertisements, contracts 
inSG &AC 

Respectable income in SG & AC 

Income as an entertainer in SG & AC 
Income through secret arts or as a 
prostitute 


With 12 & 7 in its bag, the Il house, a 


neutral house to the 5th house, during the 
DBA periods of Mercury while it transits in the 


“Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 142 


star of Jupiter, would force the native to face 
difficulties in getting his money back which had 
been kept with his partner's custody or lent to 
others. 

Vion Il: 


VI house, by nature, is a favourable house 
to the II house. 6th sublord is Sun, which is in the 
star of Venus, the 12th sublord and is in the sub of 
Jupiter, the sublord of 5 & 11 (12th to the 6 & 12th). 
It is not an unfavourable linkage to the II. 


Principles of linkage of the VI house on 
the Il house are: 


Ze Loans for self enjoyments 

2,2 Borrowings for savings 

2,3 Interest in the deposits acquired through 
borrowings 

2,4 Purchase of LVHP through borrowings 

2,5 Speculation by acquiring loans 

2,6 Clearing debts by acquiring loans 

24 Getting loans for lending to others 

2,8 Increased borrowings 

2,9 Borrowings for illegal affairs 

2,10: Service in financial institutions 

2,11: Commissions in the purchase of 
negotiable 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks” 


instruments 
2,12: Borrowings for investments 


— 
1) 


Connection to houses 5, 11 & 12 by the 
6th sublord in this chart shows that the native 
cannot expect regular income from steady 
employments. 12, 5 & 11 would also denote that 
the native has the repaying capacity to clear-off 
his loans. The VI, the house of servants, does 
not favour any kind of monetary gains from his 
employees or servants. The DBAs periods of 
Sun, while it happens to transit in the star of 
Mercury, would enable the native to clear-off his 
loans. 

lon VI: 


General Principles of linkage of the Il 
house with the VI house are: 


6,1: Acquiring loans through own efforts 

6,2: Income by rendering service 

6,3: Loans raised through negotiable 
instruments 

6,4: Loans in LVHP 

6,5: Becoming a debtor in the fields of 
SG&AC 

6,6: Borrowings in a service institution or 
through servants 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 144 

6,7: Loans through banks, or life/ousiness 
partners 

6,8: Getting loans more than the expectations 

6,9: Borrowings from father or unknown 


persons 

6,10: Pay and GPF advances, incentives for 
service 

6,11: Borrowings for friends, in-laws and elder 
brothers 


6,12: Borrowings for medical treatments or for 
reinvestments 


With 12 & 7 in its bag, the Il house, a 
favourable house (9th) to the 6th house, during 
the DBA periods of Mercury and when it transits 
in the star of Sun, would lead the native to repay 
a part of his debts. 

VII on II: 


VII is a neutral house to the II house. In 
our example, the 7th sublord is Rahu which tran- 
sits in its own star and in the sub of Sun, the 6th 
sublord (Denial of 7). 


Principles of linkage of the VII house on 
the Il house are: 


"Applications of Cuspal_Interlinks” 145 


2,1: 


2,2. 
2,3: 


2,4: 


2,5: 


2,6: 


2,12: 


Requesting the assistance of others for 
self financial needs 

Money with the assistance of others 
Improvement in financial status through 
the assistance of others 

Acquiring LVHP with the assistance of 
others 

Pleasures with the financial assistance of 
others 

Borrowings with the assistance of others 
Income and friendships with the 
assistance of others 

Unexpected gains with the assistance 
of others 

Financial crisis on behalf of others 
Professional developments’ with 
assistance of others 

Voluntary friendships by others to assist 
the native 

Investments with the assistance of others 


Linkage to houses 6 & 7 would mean 


gains, at least in the form of service or through 
wife or partners and government servants (Sun). 
This could be possible during the DBAS periods 
of Rahu, while it transits in the star of Mercury, 
the II sublord. 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks” 146 


Ilon VII: 


General principles of linkage of the Il 


house with the VII house are: 


7,1: 


7,2: 
7,3: 


7,4: 


7,5: 


7,6: 
TT: 


7,8: 
7,9: 
7,10: 
Ll 
7,12: 


Monetary gains in the association of life/ 
business partners 

Monetary benefits through L/BP 
Monetary benefits from the negotiable 
instruments of L/BP 

Monetary benefits through the visits of 
relatives 

Gains through feasts and occassions with 
relatives 

Bank loans 

Leaving the money at the possession 
of others 

Unexpected gains through L/BP 
Monetary benefits through II wife/hnusband 
Profits through business partners 

Dowry money 

Earnings of wife/nusband or through 
illegal sources 


With 12 &7 in its bag, the Il house, as an 


unfavourable house to the 7th house, during the 
DBA periods of Mercury while it transits in the 


"Applications of Cuspal_Interlinks” 147 


star of Rahu, would lead to loss of money by 
thefts. 
VII on Il: 


Vill is an unfavourable house to the Il 
house. 8th sublord is Saturn which is in the star 
of Mars, sublord of houses 1 & 3. The 
combination of 1 & 3 would remain neutral to the 
Il house. Saturn is in the sub of Jupiter, the 
sublord of houses 5 & 11. Houses 5 & 11 would 
uphold the neutrality of the VIII house. 


Principles of linkage of the VIII house on 
the Il house are: 


2,1: Expenditures for unexpected self needs 

2,2: Unexpected profits 

2,3: Unexpected improvements of income 

2,4: Unexpected acquisition of properties 

2,5: Unexpected gamblings 

2,6: Unexpected borrowings 

2,7. Sudden marriage, accidents to L/B 
partners 

2,8: Unexpected outstandings of money 

2,9: Unexpected financial worries 

2,10: Sudden professional gains 

2,11: Immense flow of money as unexpected 
gains 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 148 
2,12: Unexpected investments or expenditures 


Receipt of donations, compliments, gifts, 
insurance claims etc are possible by Saturn, 
the 8th sublord, as itcarries 1, 3,5 & 11, during 
its DBA periods, while it happens to transit in 
the star of Mercury, the II sublord. 


ton VIII: 


General principles of linkage of the Il 
house with the VIII house are: 


8,1 Gains from insurance claims 

8,2 Bribes or unexpected income 

83 Unexpected gains in documentation and 
through cheques 

8,4: Insurance claims in accidents 

8,5: Unexpected income through commissions 

8,6: Unexpected loans 

8,7: | Insurance claims of L/BP 

8.8: Unexpected collection of outstandings 

8,9: | Unexpected gains in ancestral properties 

8,10: Accepting bribes in profession 

8,11; Unexpected financial assistance, gifts 
or donations 

8,12: Unexpected capital gains 


"Applications _of Cuspal_Interlinks” 149 


With 12 & 7 in its bag, the II sublord would 
force the native to recommend someone to a 
lender in raising loans. That someone would fail 
to repay the loan and in fine, the native would be 
forced to exchange words with the lender. 


IX on II: 


IX is a house of danger to the I! house. In 
this chart, 9th sublord Moon transits in Sun star, 
the 6th sublord (5 to 2) and in the sub of Rahu, 
the 7th sublord (2 to 6). Linkage of 9 to 6 (5 to 2) 
& 7 (Neutral to 6) would thus mean gains to the II 
house. 


Principles of linkage of the IX house on 
the II house are: 


2,1: Expenditures on illegal affairs 

2,2: Profits from ancestral properties 

2,3: Improvement in financial status through 
father 

2,4: Money and properties from ancestral 
sources 

2,5: Profits from ancestral trusts 

2,6: Appointment on compassionate grounds 
or on the basis of heirship 

2,7: Foreign exchange with the assistance 


“Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 150 


of others 

Income through the insurance claims of 
father 

Financial crisis by the debts of father 
Income from the profession as suited to 
educational qualifications 

Immense growth of financial status 
through ancestral sources 
Expenditures incurred on ancestral 
properties 


9th, the house of father and strangers, 


would give some relief to the native. 9th is also 
a house of research. In this example chart, it 
would render such benefits during the Moon DBA 
periods, while it transits in the star of Mercury. 


llon IX: 


General principles of linkage of the IX 


house, to the Il house are: 


9,1: 


9,2: 
9,3: 


Monetary gains through credibility, 
integrity and status 

Gains through father and strangers 
Gains through agreements’ and 
negotiations 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 151 


9,4: Monetary benefits through higher 
education 

9,5: Monetary gains through supernatural 
forces 

9,6: Income, by getting appointed in the same 
job of the father 

9,7: Gains through second marriage 

9,8: Monetary benefits from the insurance 
claims of the father 

9,9: Earnings in researches, royalties 

9,10: Income through foreign assignments or 
in a honorary post 

9,11: Financial gains through success in 
research works 

9,12: Profits through international contacts 


With 12 & 7 in its bag, the Il house, a 
neutral house to the 9th house, during the DBA 
periods of Mercury while it transits in the star 
of Moon, would enable the native to invest money 
in properties, that are unworthy for due returns. 


X on Il: 


X house as it is 9th to the II house, is a 
naturally favourable house to the Il house. The 
10th sublord Mercury is in the star of Venus, the 
12th sublord and _ in the sub of Rahu, the 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 152 


7th sublord. By negating the 12th house 
significations, the 7th house would operate on 
the 10th sublord to become unfavourable to the 
Il house. Thus a natural ally would transform into 
a silent and neutral spectator here. 


the 


2,1: 
2,2. 
2,3: 


2,4: 
2,5: 


2,6: 
2,7: 
2,8: 
2,9: 


2,10: 


Principles of linkage of the X house on 
house are: 


Personal enjoyment from entire earnings 
Saving the income 

Improving the financial conditions through 
income 

Converting the income into properties 
Gamblings and speculations with the 
income 

Preserving the income for legal heirs 
Saving the income at the hands of others 
Income that remain as outstanding 
Financial hurdles and crisis due to 
profession 

Reinvestments of the income in the same 
profession 

Immense earnings and preserving the 
same as savings 

Reinvesting the income in different 
professions 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks” 153 


In the example, there lies no scope for 
gains or developments in profession, during the 
DBA periods of Mercury, while it transits in its 
own star. 


llon X: 


General principles of linkage of the Il 
house with the X house are: 


10,1: Financial gains with status and respect 
through profession 

10,2: Permanent income through profession 
(salary) 

10,3: Gains in money exchanges of the 
profession (TA Claims) 

10,4: Profits in the profession of LVHP 
(HRA & CCA) 

10,5: Encashment of commutted medical leave 
and earned leave 

10,6: Gains in promotions, increments, 
additional remunerations 

10,7: Income through self ventures 

10,8: Accepting bribes, pending arrears being 
paid 

10,9: Gratuity and pension benefits 
subsequent to retirement 

10,10: Gains for holding honorary posts 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 154 


10,11: Income through professional 
developments 
10,12: Materialistic gains in second profession 


With 12 & 7 in its bag, the Il house, a 
favourable house to the 10th house, during the 
DBA periods of Mercury while it transits in its 
own star, with the profits from the first 
profession, the native would lead to initiate a 
second profession but only to increase the 
borrowings and subsequently to end in aborting 
the new attempts midway. 


Xlon Il: 


XI is a neutral house to the II house. The 
11th sublord Jupiter is in the star & sub of 
Mercury, the sublord of houses 2, 4 & 10 or 1, 3 
& 9 to the Il house. Thus a neutral house 
becomes a favourable house. 


Principles of linkage of the XI house on 
the Il house are: 


2,1: | Reduction in savings to fulfil self needs 

2,2: Multiple savings to fulfil materialistic 
desires 

2,3: Small savings, as desired 

2,4: Conversion of savings as properties, as 


‘Applications of Cuspal_Interlinks” 155 
desired 

2,5: Conversion of savings as artistically 
valuable goods, as desired 

2,6: Borrowings from the person of native's 
choice 

2,7: Borrowings with the assistance of 
others as desired 

2,8: Receipt of donations as desired 

2,9: Giving gifts as desired 

2,10: Profession in Jewellery shops or in finance 
companies as desired 

2,11: Income through multiple sources as 
desired 

2,12: Investments or expenditures as desired 


The XI house in this chart is highly 
favourable to the Il house and thus opening up 
the gates of gains through friends and elder 
brothers. The link of the 11th sublord to 2, 4 & 10 
would give financial satisfaction, fulfilment of 
desires and marginal success in professional 
life during its DBA periods of Jupiter, while it 
transits in the star of Mercury. 


"Applications of Cuspal_Interlinks" 156 


Ilon XI: 


General principles of linkage of the Il 


house, to the XI house are: 


11,1: 
11,2: 
11,3: 


11,4: 
11,5: 


11,6: 
11,7: 
11,8: 
11,9: 


Benefits through self efforts and status 
Immense growth of wealth 

Gains, as planned in negotiations and by 
way of agreements 

Profits from the properties with litigations 
Monetary benefits in festivals and 
occassions 

Success in financial litigations 

Financial assistance from friends 
Unexpected gains from the friends 
Gains out of long journeys, and through 
foreigners 


11,10: Expected gains in profession 
11,11: Profits and gains to the optimum level 


of desires 


11,12: Gains as expected through investments 


With 12 & 7 in its bag, the Il house, a 


neutral house to the 11th house, during the DBA 
periods of Mercury while it transits in the star of 
Jupiter, would lead to loss or theft of large amount 
of money that was earned and kept secretly. 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" i157 
XII on Il: 


12th is a favourable house to the II house. 
The 12th sublord Venus is in Moon star, the 9th 
sublord and in its own sub. Though the linkage 
to the 9th house would not favour the II house, 
connection to the 12th house would nullify the same 
and would render a bit of relief to the native. 


Principles of linkage of the XII house on 
the II house are: 


2,1: Liquidation of investments for self needs 

2,2: Repayment of outstanding money that 
was lent 

2,3: Improvement in financial conditions 
through deposits 

2,4: Investments in LVHP 

2,5:  Liquidating the investments for gambling 


needs 

2,6: Borrowings for want of excessive 
investments 

2,/. Profits in investments with the assistance 
of others 


2,8: Outstanding capital 
2,9: Financial crisis caused by excessive 
investments 


“Applications of Cuspal_Interlinks" 158 

2,10: Liquidating the assets for professional 
needs 

2,11: Immense profits in investments 

2,12: Reinvestments by liquidating the 
investments 


inthe example chart, it is 9 & 12 on the II 
house to mean that the second profession would 
render gains to the client during Venus DBA pe- 
riods, when it happens to transit in the star of 
Mercury. 

Il on XII: 


General principles of linkage of the Il 
house with the XII house are: 


42,1: Liquidating capital through self efforts 

12,2: Liquidating the capital or outstanding 
money 

12,3: Getting back the things that were lost 

12,4: Due returns from investments made in 
LVHP 

12,5: Commission to capitals 

12,6: Borrowings on capitals 

12,7: Getting back the capital with the help of 
others 

12,8: Unexpected gains through investments 


12,9: Winning back the properties that were 
seized 

12,10: Gains through reinvestments in the 
profession 

12,11: Immense growth of capital 

12,12: Return of savings and thrift 


With 12 & 7 in its bag, the Il house, a 
neutral house to the 12th house, during the DBA 
periods of Mercury while it transits in the star of 
Venus, would lead xo loss of money, that was 
secretly invested, after being cheated by 
someone. 


Readers are requested to keenly note that 
the study of the II bhava/ house have been so 
far explained with the use of the karaka of money 
or finance alone, selected from the bundle of 
more than a few hundred karakas of the Il 
house.The remaining karakas can also be 
studied in the same manner as explained above. 


PLANETS & Il 


SUN: The karaka planet for father and 
government. 


Sun resides in Venus star(12) and Jupiter 
sub (5 & 11). It is an unfavourable linkage to the 


"Applications of Cuspal interlinks" 160 
Il house. 


Hence the native could not expect loans 
from father or through employment from the 
government. 


MOO: The karaka planet for mother & 
maternal sources. 


Moon transits in Sun star (6) and in Rahu 
sub (7). Hence gains are possible through mother 
and maternal sources, but only during the DBA 
periods of Moon. 


MAR: The karaka planet for brothers and 
machineries. 


Mars transits in Sun star (6) and in Rahu 
sub (7). Hence gains are possible through 
brothers and machineries, only during the DBA 
periods of Mars. 


MER: Karaka for sensitive instruments. 
Mercury is in Venus star (12) and in the 
sub of Rahu (7). Hurdles and losses are the 


results. 


JUP: Karaka for education. 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 161 


Jupiter transits in Mercury star & sub, the 
sublord of 2, 4 & 10. The native can gain through 
teaching, though he had very limited scope for 
his own education. 


VEN: Karaka for opposite sex and 
agriculture. 


Venus is in Moon star (9) and in its own 
sub (12). The native cannot dream of making 
gains from sources of ladies and agricultural 
yields. 


SAT: Karate: planet for old and used goods. 


Saturn transits in Mars star, the sublord 
of 1 & 3, and Jupiter sub, the sublords of 5 & 11. 
This link of 1, 3, 5 & 11 would lead to favourable 
gains from such goods. 


More on identifying the sources of finance: 


Imagine that a person wants to construct 
a house. It is nothing but conversion of money 
into properties. That means, the II sublord must 
maintain a linkage either in the natal chart or in 
the transit to ensure flow of money, that is 
required to carry on with the above-said 
construction. Now the process of accumulation 
of money for the construction of house gets 


‘Applications of Cuspal_Interlinks" 162 
started. The native may use part of his own 
savings. He may raise a housing loan from a 
finance company or a bank. He may divert a small 
portion of capital from his profession. He may 
get short-term loans from his parents, in-laws, 
relatives and friends. He may raise money either 
by mortgaging the jewels of his wife or by selling 
part of his own lands etc., 


Thus, in the process of constructing a 
house, within a span of about 4-8 months, all the 
sources are being utilized by him. Hence, the 
financial sources of all the 12 houses are being 
tried, when their sublords happen to transit in the 
star of the Il sublord as non-returnable money 
and when they get to transit in the star of the 6th 
sublord as loans. Thus every house, subject to 
its natal potential, at the time of transit of its 
sublord in the star of the Il sublord, enables the 
native to tap its sources for money. In the 
general principles, we have studied only to use the 
combination of two cusps, i.e, 1&2, 1 & 3etc., 
But let us bear in our minds that the cuspal 
combinations are unimaginably numerous, such as 


i) 1.2 &3,1,2 &4......., & 1,2 & 12 
1,3 &4, 1,3&5......81, 3 & 12 XXXXXX 
1, 11 & 12. (Combination of any three cusps) 


ii) 1,23 &4,1,2,3 85.0000. &1,2,3&12 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 163 


13,4&5,1,3,4 86.0000. & 1,3,4& 12 
XXXXXXXXX1,10, 11&12 
(Combination of any four cusps) 


iti) 1,2,3,4& 5,1,2,3,4&6...&1,2,3,4& 12 
1,3,4,58&61,3,4,5&7......&1,3,4,5&12 
XXXXXXXXXXX 1,9,10,11 & 12 

(Combination of any 5 cusps) 


i) 


iv) 1,2,3,4,5& 6,1,2,3,4,5 & 7......& 1,23,4,5 &12 
13,456 & 7,1,3,4,5,6 & 8.0.0.0... &1,3,4,5,6&12 
XXXXXXXXX 1, 8, 9, 10,11 & 12 

(Combination of any 6 cusps) 


v) 1,2,3,4,5,6 &7,1,2,3,4,5,6 & 8t01,2,3,4,5,6 &12 
1,3,4,5,6,7 & 8,1,3,4,5,6,7 & 9......1,3,4,5,6,7 & 12 
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXX 

1,7, 8, 9, 10, 11 & 12 (Combination of any 7 cusps) 


vi) VAS ASG FG Oictacitesat 1,2,3,4,5,6,7& 12 
1,3,4,5,6,7,8 & 9.00. 1,3,4,5,6,7,8& 12 
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXKX 


1, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11 & 12 (Combination of any 8 cusps) 


vii) 1,2,3,4,9,6,2,8 8 9... ceive 1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8& 12 
XXXXXXXXXXXXK 


1,5,6,7,8,9,10,11 & 12 (Combination of any 9 cusps) 


Vill)  1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9 & 10...1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9& 12 
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXAXXXXXXX 


VY 5 R7R910N11 & 12(CoMmhination of any 10 ciiaene)12 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 164 
1,3, 4, 5, 6, 7,8,9,10,11& 12.(Combination of any 11 cusps) 


x) 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11 & 12 (Combination of all 
cusps) From the above combinations, if we 
exclude the Asc, we start getting another set of 
combinations such as, 


i) 2, 3, 4......2, 3 & 12.....upto 2, 11 & 12 

ii) 2,3,4&5....... 2,3,4812......: upto 2, 10,11&12 
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX ii) to viii) 

ix) 2, 3,4, 5, 6,7, 8,9, 10, 11 & 12 


In the same manner, every time when we 
exclude a house, we are able to get a new and 
different set of combinations. Thus we can 
derive over 39,916,800 cuspal combinations to 
solve the riddles of our materialistic life. | know 
that my lifetime is too small to detail and list these 
significations of each and every one of the above 
such combinations. Every one of these 40 
million Cuspal combinations is different from 
others; combination of 1 & 3 does not mean as a 
mechanical addition of karakas of 1 & 3; instead, 
the combination explicitly shows about an unique 
combination of courageous character. Thus we 
have to be objective in identifying the true nature 
of every other combination. 


Added to the above, we have the 
significations of "SIGNS" of Zodiac {Principles of 
Kalachakra} and the "PLANETS". Please refer 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 165 


the previous chapter on the Ascendant wherein 
the relevant Planetary Significations have been 
provided as examples. The permutations and 
combinations of cuspal interlinks to the 
significations of each and every planet, would 
render more and more options. Thereby conclude 
that only a small fraction of these options are 
sufficient to identify the unique financial cycle of 
each one of us. Hence, Dear readers! Best of 
luck in trying these combinations in making 
predicitions. Shall we move on to the Ill house 
now? 


"Applications of Cuspal_Interlinks" 166 


iii HOUSE 
HOUSE OF COMMUNICATION 


In this chapter, we are going to study the 
link of the Ill house with and by the remaining 
cusps in analyzing a chart. As you know, the Ill 
house is the house of significations for 
Communications, Writings, Documents and 
agreements, Accounting, All kinds of 
informations, Signs, Mediator, Negotiator, Lease, 
Business and Commercial activities etc. 


Nature of the Ill house:. 


It is favourable to the houses : 1,3, 5,7 & 11 
Unfavourable to the houses : 4, 8, 9 & 12. 
Neutral to the houses : 2, 6 & 10 

Ascon Ill- Short journeys, information & 


communications 
Il on Hl-Conversion of savings as negotiable 


instruments 

Ill on Ill- Courage, self confidence, agreement 
and lease 

IV on lll-Loss of properties, change of 
residence, 


Von Ull-Agreement to commissions, love 


"Applications _of Cuspal_Interlinks” 167 
letters, innovations, deep thoughts. 

VI on fll-Loans through agreements, 
appointment orders, success in 
negotiations or litigations. 

VIl on Ill- Information from wife, partners. 
Leaving the native place. 

VIII on IIl- Insurance Agreement, Will or Charter, 
mental worries caused due to change 
of residence ete., 

IX on Ill-Agreement in writing, end of 
information or journey. 

X on lill- Transfer of job, agreements in 
business. 

XI on Ill- Happy news and mental satisfaction. 

XII on IIl- Loss of properties, share certificates 
etc., 


The above could happen, if the sublords 
of the concemed cusps reside in anyone of the 
stars or the subs of the sublord of the Ill cusp. 
The readers might have noticed that whenever 
an odd house joins hands with the Ill house, it 
improves the favourable scope of their 
common signification; It is the reverse in the case 
of linkage by an even house. Ill house is a 
member of "Odd Houses" or a house of 
Spiritual cycle. When it conjoins with the 12th 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 168 


house, jointly stand for negating the 
materialistic scopes. 


3 & 12 jointly with 2 would stand for sale of gold 

3&12 jointly with 4 would signify sale of 
properties. 

3 & 12 jointly with 6 would denote loss of labour 
and mortgages. 

3 & 12 jointly with 8 would denote mental agony 
on losses. 

3 & 12 jointly with 10 would denote transfer 
of job. 


Ill house is also a house of negotiations 
on sales, accounts & losses. 


Houses 1, 3, 5, 7 & 11 would be 
favourable to the Itl house, while houses 2, 6, 9 
& 10 would be unfavourable to the Ill and 4, 8 
&12 would stand neutral to the III house. These 
favours or misfortunes could be possible 
depending upon the residence of the sublord of 
the third cusp in the star or the sub of the 
relevant houses. In return, the Ill house would 
register its mark on the cusps to which it gets 
linked. 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 169 
on Asc: Courage of the native 


on Il: Enhancement of profits through 
agreements 

on Ill: Improves the trend of negotiations 

on IV: Return journey, return of goods or 
properties 


on V: Mutual satisfaction in negotiations 

on VI: Small loans. 

on VII: Contacts with opposite sex 

on Vill: Forgery and false propaganda 

on_ IX: Filing of tender documents 

on X: Change in the nature of job 

on X\: Satisfactory agreements 

on XII: Breach of agreements or misplacing 
valuables. 


POTENTIAL of the Ill house. 


In every horoscope, it is possible that the 
sublord of a particular house may also appear 
as sublord to anyone or more houses. Here in 
this example chart, Mars is the sublord for both 
the Ascendant and for the II house. 


i) Mars is the sublord of the Ill house 
and it resides in the star of Sun, the 6th sublord, 
and in the sub of Rahu, the 7th sublord. 


“Applications of Cuspal_Interlinks” 170 

Ill house is unfavourably connected te the 
Vl, as it becomes 4th to the Ill house. This 
unfavourable connection is upheld by Rahu, the 
7th sublord and the sublord of the sublord of the 
ll! house. Hence potentially the Ill house is very 
weak in this chart. 


ii-b) Ketu, (Neither starlord nor sublord to 
anyone of the 12 cusps) is in the sub of Mars. 
Hence, we opt for the residence of Ketu, i.e., 
the II house. Linkage of II on 3 would enable the 
native to convert his savings as negotiable 
instruments. 

ASC on Ill 


Asc is a naturally favourable house to 
the Ill house. Mars, the sublord of the Asc, as 
it resides in the star of Sun, the 6th sublord and 
in the sub of Rahu, the 7th sublord, always 
carries 6 & 7 with it to react on the other 11 
houses. Houses 6 & 7 would become houses 4 
& 5 to the III house to disable the Asc to retain its 
nature of favour to the Il! house. 


The principles of linkage of the Asc on the 
Ill house are as follows: 


3,1 | Courage and mental strength 
3,2 Greed for money 
3,3 Versatile in writing, good memory power 


" Applications of Cuspal_Interlinks" 171 

3,4: Inclination towards education 

3,5: Deep thoughts and wisdom 

3,6: ENT problems, courageous person, 
sports personality 

3,7: Sociable with very good public relations 

3,8: Mentally retarded, fearful, coward 

3,9: Fond of travels, research mind 

3,10: Publicity in professional life 

3,11: Bold and courageous 

3,12: Inability to reside in the native place 


In this example chart, as the Asc is 
carrying 6 & 7 with it or to say 4 & 5 to the Il 
house, during the DBA periods of Mars, while it 
transits in its own star, as its reaction on the III 
house as sublord of Asc, would negate the 
inclination towards education and gaining 
knowledge and would disable the native from 
cordial communications. 


Ilion ASC: 


The principles of linkage ofthe Ill house 
with the Asc are as follows: 


1,1. Short journeys, transfers, mental strength 
12 Statements 
13. Courageous mind 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 172 

1,4: Loss of interest in education 

1,5: Love letters, poems 

1,6: ENT problems, loss of energy, diseases 

1,7: Communication and exchanges of 
informations with opposite sex 

1,8: Mental depression, charge-sheet, 
rumours, tremblings as a symptom of 
neuro-disorders 

19: International relations, visa & tenders 

1,10: Transfer of job, job satisfactions 

1,11: Name and fame in negotiations and 
communications 

1,12: Secret research, loss of organs in the body 


Il! house, with 6 & 7 in its bag, or to say, 
3,6 & 7, the specific combination of the III house 
in this chart, while to act on the Asc, at the 
periods of DBAS of Mars, when it transits in its 
own stars, would enable the native to gain 
success in negotiations. 


Ton Ii: 


Il house, by nature, is a house of 
negation to the Ill. 


Il sublord Mercury is in Venus star & Rahu 
sub, thus linked to houses 12 & 7. Houese 12 & 


"Applications of Cuspal_Interlinks" 173 
7 would become houses 10 & 5 to the III house. 
Thus the Il house would get modified as a 
neutral house to the III house in this chart. 


The principles of linkage of the Il house 


with the III house are as follows: 


3:1! 
S2: 
HFG 


3,4: 
io Mon 


3,6: 
Ms gs 
3,8: 
3,9: 
3,10: 


3,11: 
3,12: 


Disposal of valuables for self needs 
Return of valuables mortgaged 

Giving the valuables temporarily to the 
use of others 

Conversion of money into properties 
Conversion of money into share 
certificates 

Frequent mortgage of valuables 
Separation of one of the family members 
Threatened by the financial strength 
of the opponent 

Issuance of cheques and subsequent 
reduction of savings 

Transfer through financial means, 
TA claims 

Financial agreements 

Sale of gold and other valuables 


ll as it carries 12 & 7 orto say 10 & 5to 


the Il house in this example chart, during the 


‘Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 174 


DBA periods of Mercury, the II sublord, while it 
is also in transit of the star of Mars, the Ill sublord, 
would force the native to sell valuable articles 
and would enable the native to get needed 
assistance from others in the form of cheques or 
demand drafts. 

Ill on Il 


The principles of linkage of the house 
with the Il house are as follows: 


2,1: Converting savings as Negotiable 
Instruments (NI) for personal seasons 

2,2:  Liquidating NI for re-investment in 
the same 

2,3: Improvements in the financial position 
through NI 

2,4: Mortgage of valuables and properties 

2,5: Broker and commission agent 

2,6: Raising loans through NI 

2,/: Financial assistance from others by 
way of cheques 

2,8: Missing cheques and disappointments 

2,9: Negotiations and talks to avert financial 
Crisis 

2,10: Financial benefits through transfers 

2,11: Savings as Ni to the satisfaction of 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 175 


desires 
2,12: Documentation of valuable investments 


il! house with 6 & 7 in its bag, or to say, 
3, 6 & 7, while to act on the II house, during the 
DBA periods of Mars, the {Il sublord, while it is 
also in transit of the star of Mercury, the Il 
sublord, would bring profits through negotiations 
for the native. 
Ion Ill: 


Ill when in company with 3 or 6 or 11 would 
give Success. 


Ill when in company with 5 or 8 or 12 would 
give failures. 


Or in other words, it becomes obligatory 
for the sublord of the Ill house to be 


i) in its own star or sub to render success. 


it) or to remain in the star or sub of sublords 
of 6 & 11 for success. 


Ill is a favourable house to itself. Since it 
is connected primarily with the 6th house, would 
give success to the native through contracts and 
agreements. This could be posssible during the 
DBA periods of Mars, while it is also in transit in 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 176 
its own star. 


The principles of linkage of the Ill house 
to itself are as follows: 


3,1. Self advertisements 

3,2 Profits through cheques or documents 

3,3 Signatures, Information and 
communication 

3,4 Agreements to sell LVHP 

3,5 Knowledge and wisdom in the fields of AC 

3,6 Agreements to raise loans . 

BF Incidental meetings and contacts, 
passing on the information 

3,8: Accounting faults 

3,9: Telegraphs and tele-communications, 
journeys 

3,10: Transfers and business agreements 

3,11: Winning tenders and contracts 

3,12: Loss of properties 


i) As a house of signatures of the native 
or means of sureity, the Ill house when 
connected to 5, 8 & 12 would lead to loss of 
money; 4, 8 & 12 would lead to seizure of 
properties; 1,5 & 8 would spoil his reputation. In 
this example, no such adverse linkage is found. 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks” 177 

ii) Ifthe Ill house, a house of publicity, is 
linked with 9 & 11, then the native would be a 
publicity-monger. If the ill house is connected to 
the 8th, then one would spoil his own reputation, 
losing his name and fame. Here in this example, 
no such linkage is found. 


Note: If we go on discussing about the 
links that are not found in this horoscope, |! am 
afraid that it would deviate us from the main 
purpose of this book. 


Von Il: 


IV is a neutral house to the Ill house. IV 
sublord Mercury is in Venus star(12) and in Rahu 
sub(7). Houses 12 & 7 would become houses 
10 & 5to the Ill house. Thus the IV house would 
remain as a neutral house to the III house. 


The principles of linkage of the IV house 
on the III house are as follows: 


3,1 Leaving the native place 

3,2 Liquidation of properties 

3,3. Mortgaging the properties 

3,4 Re-mortgaging the properties 

3,5 Re-modification of properties 

3,6 Purchase of new properties after the sale 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 178 
of old ones 

3,7: Departure of guests and relatives 

3,8: Forgery in documents of properties 

3,9: Mutual exchange of properties 

3,10: Residing in other's house by leaving his 
own residence 

3,11: Litigations on properties 

3,12: Sale of properties 


In this example chart, during the DBA 
periods of Mercury, {carrier of 12 & 7 with it 
always} the sublord of the IV house, while it 
transits in the star of Mars, the III sublord, would 
bring down the efforts on negotiations regarding 
properties to end in vain. 


Ill on IV: 


The principles of linkage of the house 
with the IV house are as follows: 


4,1: Leaving the residence 

4,2: Conversion of properties into gold and 
valuables 

43 Sale of properties 

4,4 Regaining the properties that were lost 

4,5 Repairs or modifications of properties 


4,6: Change of educational institution, 
purchase of properties by selling own 
properties 

4,7: Living at the residence of the spouse 

4,8: Repairs or damages in belongings, repairs 
in wirings & pipe lines 

4,9: Acquiring properties through mortgage 

4,10: Sale of manufactured goods 

4,11: Litigations on properties 

4,12: Sale of documents 


lll house, with 6 & 7 in its bag, or to say, 
3, 6 & 7, while to act on the IV house, during the 
DBA periods of Mars at the time when Mars is 
also in transit in the star of Mercury, the 4th 
sublord, would lead to failures of negotiations, 
as the other party would disagree to the demands 
of the native. 

V oni: 


V is a naturally favourable house to the 
Ill. Through its significations like interest in sports 
and competitions, the 5th house is to stand 
favourable to the lll. In this example chart, the 
5th sublord Jupiter is in the star and sub of 
Mercury (2, 4 & 10) {12, 2 & 8 to the Ill} to 
become unfavourable to the III house. 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks” 180 


The principles of linkage of the V house 


with the Ill house are as follows: 


3,1: 
3,2: 
3,3: 
3,4: 
30. 
3,6: 


3,7: 
3,8: 
3,9: 
3,10: 


3,11: 
3,12: 


Deep thoughts and versatile knowledge 
Lottery gains 

Artistic excellence 

Education in artistic fields 

Writings of stories and articles 

Loss of energy subsequent to viral 
diseases 

Love affairs 

Disrespects, anonymous letters 
Advertisements 

Detained to the previous state in 
profession, problems by changing the 
place of business 

Peaceful settlements in negotiations 
Seller of artisitic goods 


In this chart, since the 5th sublord Jupiter 


is linked to houses 2, 4 & 10 or to say houses 12, 
2 & 8 to the III house, would bring failures to the 
native in competitive examinations during its DBA 
periods, while it is also in transit of the star of 
Mars, the III sublord. 


"Applications of Cuspal_Interlinks" 181 


If] on V: 


The principles of linkage of the III house 


with the V house are as follows: 


551: 
5,2: 


53: 
5,4: 
5.5: 
5,6: 


57; 
58: 


5,9: 
5,10: 


5,11: 
5,12: 


Excellence in arts and culture 

Profiting through commissions, brokerage 
and agencies 

Wisdom and thoughts 

Seller and producer of artistic goods 
Excellent memory power, spiritual servant 
Loss of physical energy due to diseases 
in the blood cells 

Love marriage with a neighbour 

Mental depresssions due to disrespects 
in the fields of SG & AC 

Pilgrimage to holy places 

Professional seller of books and artistic 
goods 

Intelligence and sound health 

Seller of artistic equipments and 
supplements 


lil house, with 6 & 7 in its bag, or to say, 


11, 2 & 3, while to act on the V house, at the 
periods of DBAS of Mars also when Mars is in 
transit of the star of Jupiter, the 5th sublord, would 


‘Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 182 


enable the native to satisfy other parties during 
negotiations. 
VI on Il: 


VI is a naturally unfavourable house to 
the Ill house. Butinthis example, the 6th sublord 
Sun, by being in the star of Venus (12), (10th to 
the Ill) and in the sub of Jupiter (5 & 11), {3&9 
to the Ill house}, stands favourable to the 
matters of the III house. 


The principles of linkage of the VI house 
with the Ill house are as follows: 


3,1: Courageous and bold efforts 

3,2: Receipt of loans as cheques 

3,3: Agreements for borrowings 

3,4: | Oppositions and motives in service 

3,5: Voluntary retirements 

3,6: Change of residence for service 
requirements 

3,7: Incentives and increments in service 

3,8: Increase in workloads 

3,9: Change in service 

3,10: Transfer in service 

3,11: Successful service 

3,12: Service in commercial institutions and 
business establishments 


"Applications of Cuspal_Interlinks” 183 


During the DBA periods of Sun, the 6th 
sublord, the person would face difficulties in 
raising loans, as assured to him. Since it is 5, 11 
& 12 in the example case, the 6th house would 
lose its strength to deny energy of the native and 
thus, the native would be able to maintain his 
health during the DBA periods of Sun, the 6th 
sublord, while it transits in the star of Mars, the 
Ill sublord. 

Illon VI: 


The principles of linkage of the III house 
with the VI house are as follows: 


6,1: Litigations involving the prestige of the 
native 

6,2: — Litigations regarding financial matters 

6,3: Litigations regarding the pathways or 
platforms 

6,4:  Litigations on properties 

6,5: —Litigations in service 

6,6: — Litigations regarding loans 

6,7: Litigations motivated by the opponents 

6,8: — Litigations regarding criminal activities 

6,9: Litigations on ancestral or temple 
properties 

6,10: Litigations regarding promotions in 
profession 


‘Applications of Cuspal_Interlinks" 184 

6,11: Litigations on the tenants 

6,12: Litigations due to the secret activities like 
Income tax raids etc 


Il! house, with 6 & 7 in its bag, or to say, 
3,6 & 7, while to act on the VI house, during 
the periods of Mars, when it gets to transit in 
the star of Sun, the VI sublord, would enable 
the native to sign promissory notes for getting 
additional loans and would enable him to 
gain success in negotiations etc 


Vit on Hl: 


VII house is a beneficial house (5th to the 
Hl) to the Ill house. But in this chart, the 7th 
sublord Rahu is in its own star and in the sub of 
Sun, the 6th sublord. Hence, whenever the 7th 
house is referred, it automatically refers the 7th 
(5th to the Ill) & the 6th (4th to the Ill) houses 
also. Thus, it ends as a neutral house to the III 
house matters. 


The principles of linkage of the VII house 
with the Ill house are as follows: 


3,1. Talks with opponents 
3,2 Breaks in long journeys of L/B-partners 
3,3. Long journeys or separations of L/B 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 185 
partners 

3,4: Change of profession by L/B partners 

3,5: Cordial relationships and understanding 
with L/B partners 

3,6: Divorce cases and notices 

3,7: Illegal affairs of L/B partners 

3,8: Threatenings by opponents 

3,9: Agreements and information from 
opponents 

3,10: Separation from joint family 

3,11:  Cordiality with L/B partners 

3,12: Separation of L/B partners 


Since itis 7&6 in this example chart, 
temporary separation does arise during the DBA 
periods of Rahu, {the 7th sublord}, while it gets 
to transit in the star of Mars. 


In this example, the 7th house is 7 & 6. 
Hence profitable but with a very few direct 
contacts, is the only possiblity for financial 
assitance by the opposite sex, during the AS 
periods of Rahu, while it is also in transit in the 
star of Mars. 

Illon VII: 


The principles of linkage ofthe III house 
with the VII house are as follows: 


" Applications of Cuspal_Interlinks" 186 


7:1: 


7,2: 


7,3: 
7,4: 


7,5: 


7,6: 


7,7: 


7,8: 


7,9: 


7,10: 


7,11: 
7,12: 


Marriage brokers, maistry who selects 
daily labourers 

Broker to arrange for getting financial 
assistance 

Reporter, news correspondent, journalist 
House brokers, industrial agency. brokers 
for machineries 

Registrar of marriages, pimp, festival 
organizers 

Registrar of litigations, adviser, bill 
collectors 


Advertising agencies, information and 
communication agencies 

Mortuary servants, charge-sheet 
recording assistants, CID personnel 
Microphones, telegraphs, tele 
communications 

Self-enterprise, partnership firms, 
communication gaps with partners 
Satisfactory married life, Announcers 


Rehabilitation centres, international 
contacts 


Ili house, with 6 & 7 in its bag, or to say, 


3,6& 7, while to act on the VII house, during the 
periods of Mars when it transits in the star of 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 187 
Rahu, the VII sublord, would stand as a 
favourable period to initiate communications for 
assistance or legal proceedings against 
opponents for gains. 


VII on Hil: 


VIII is a neutral house to the III. In this 
example chart, the sublord of the 8th house i.e., 
Saturn, is in the star of Mars, sublord of houses 
1 & 3 and in the sub of Jupiter, the sublord of 
houses 5 & 11. Hence, whenever the impacts of 
the 8th house are under study, it becomes 8, 1, 
3,5&11 (6, 11, 1,3 &9 tothe Ill house}. A 
house of materialistic cycle, when linked to 
houses of. spiritual cycle, would lead to 
troubles in spiritualAamily life. 


The principles of linkage of the VIII house 
with the Ill house are as follows: 


3,1. Blind but bold 

3,2 Mental depression 

3,3. Unexpected information 

3,4 | Unexpected end of journeys 

3,5 Unexpected love letters 

3,6 Unexpected mental diseases/disorders 
3,7. Unexpected marriage engagement 

3,8 Receipt of bad news 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 188 


3,9: Unexpected journeys 

3,10: Unexpected transfers 

3,11: Unexpected agreements 

3,12: Unexpected loss of belongings 


In this example case, 8this 1, 3, 5 &11, 
the houses of favour to the Ill house. This 
combination would bring legal rights but not the 
properties or valuables during the periods of 
Saturn while it is also in transit of the star of 
Mars, the Ill sublord. In the given example, the 
8th sublord is linked to houses 1, 3, 5 & 11, in 
such a way to enable all the members of his 
family, to receive insurance claims after the death 
of the native, during the DB periods of Saturn, 
while it transits in the star of Mars, the III sublord. 


lil on VIII: 


The principles of linkage of the III house 
with the VIII house are as follows: 


8,1: Sudden death, mental depression, neuro 
problems 

8,2: | Unexpected receipt of donations or gifts 

8,3: Fear of death, mental depression 

8,4: Sudden failure of organs of the body 

8,5° Unexpected love affairs 


"Applications of Cuspal_Interlinks" 189 
8,6: Mental disorders, borrowings against 


surety 

8,7: Unexpected communications through 
strangers 

8,8: Heart attack or cruel death 

8,9: Unexpected agreements and 


communications 
8,10: Transfer to a job with heavy workload 
8,11: Unexpected happy news 
8,12: Unexpected losses or amputation of 
organs 


Ill house, with 6 & 7 in its bag, or to say, 
3, 6 & 7, while to act on the VIII house, during 
the periods of Mars when it transits in the star of 
Saturn, the VIII sublord, would cause troubles 
to the native by way of documents and also by 
having given surety to others. 


IX on Ill: 


IX house is an unfavourable house’ to 
the Ill. In this chart, the IX sublord is Moon and 
it is in the star of Sun and in the sub of Rahu. 
Sun is the 6th sublord and Rahu is the 7th 
sublord. Hence whenever we study the 9th 
house, itis 9,6 & 7 or{ 7, 4 & 5tothe III} which 
confirms the unfavourable scope as far as the Ill 


‘Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 190 
house is concerned. 


The principles of linkages of the IX house 
with the III house are as follows: 


3,1. Receipt of visa 

3,2 Breach of agreements 

3,3. Agreements 

3,4 — Litigations in agreements 

3,5 Romance or love with a person of 
different language 

3,6 Cases filed by the opponents- 

3,7 Negotiations for II marriage 

3,8 Mental agony caused by illegal affairs 

3,9 Receipt of communications 

3,10 Relieving order 

3,11: Successful negotiations 

3,12 Change of trend in negotiations 


Here in the given example, the 9th house 
is linked with 6 & 7. So the native would not be a 
honest negotiator, and the native can win a 
tender and avail a needed work order during the 
DBA periods of Moon, while it transits in the star 
of Mars, the III sublord. 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 191 


Ill on IX: 


The principles of linkage of the Ill house 


with the IX house are as follows: 


9,1: 


9 2: 
93: 


94: 


95: 


9.6: 


9,7: 
98: 


9,9: 


9,10: 


9,11: 


9,12: 


International agreements, passports, 
transfer orders 

Scholarships, ancestral documents 
Communications and agreements 
initiated by the other parties 

Changes subsequent to higher education, 
transport and teaching 

Priests, religious sentiments, sexual 
pleasures with lover 

Loss of energy subsequent to changes in 
body, erosion of bones etc., 

Practical training subsequent to education 
Breaks in higher education or in foreign 
journeys 

Winning tenders, agreements, 
negotiations 

Profession as suited to education, 
transfer orders 

Polygamy, success in higher education 
and agreements 

Imports and Exports, foreign journeys, 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 192 
airlines & research 


Ill house, with 6 & 7 in its bag, or to say, 
3, 6 & 7, while to act on the IX house, during the 
periods of Mars when it transits in the star of 
Moon, the IX sublord, would enable the native 
to receive profitable communications for needed 
assistance. 
X on Ill: 


X house is a house of danger to the Il 
house. {8th to the III}. By linking with the III, the 
10th house would somehow get into troubles. 
Mercury, the sublord of the 10th house is in the 
star of Venus, the sublord of the 12th house and 
in the sub of Rahu, the sublord of the 7th house. 
Hence, whenever 10 is studied, it becomes 
10,12 & 7, or 8,10 & 5to the III, not a favourable 
link to the Ill house at all. 


The principles of linkage of the X house 
with the Ill house are as follows: 


3,1. Job satisfaction 

3,2 Satisfaction with income 

3,3. Frequent transfers of job 

3,4 Instigated transfers 

3,5 Difficulties in getting transfers 
3,6 ‘Transfer with promotion 


“Applications of Cuspal Interlinks” 193 


3,7: Recommendations for transfer 

3,8: | Punishment transfer 

3,9: Suspension orders 

3,10: Transfer 

3,11: Reinstatement or cancellation § of 
suspension 

3,12: Transfer with change of nature in 
profession 


In this example, the 10th sublord is linked 
with houses 12 & 7 which would enable the 
client only to change the profession but not the 
place of work. There would not be any chance 
for the native to initiate commercial ventures. 
The native would face difficulties by way of 
changes in the profession, during the DBA 
periods of Mercury, the10th sublord, while it 
transits in the star of Mars, the III sublord. 


Ili on X: 


The principles of linkage of the III house 
with the X house are as follows: 


10,1 Usual transfers of higher posts 

10,2 Hike in pay scales 

10,3 Assistance from others in getting 
transferred 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 194 


10,4: Seller of LVHP, machineries 

10,5: Transfer due to hardships in profession 

10,6: Transfer subsequent to promotions 

10,7: Compulsory transfer 

10,8: Punishment transfers, problems in 
personal records 

10,9: Transfer but could not join in the new 
posting 

10,10: Transfer of section or re-allocation of 
duties 

10,11: Satisfactions through transfers or 
changes in job 

10,12:Trader with two different types of 
professions 


lil house, with 6 & 7 in its bag, or to say, 
3,6 & 7, while to act on the X house, during the 
periods of Mars when it transits in the star of 
Mercury, the X sublord, would enable the native 
to proceed for profitable communications at the 
residence of the other party. 


Xl on Ill- 
XI house is a favourable house to the III 


{9th to the Ill}. In this chart, the XI sublord is 
Jupiter which resides in the star and sub of 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 195 


Mercury, the sublord of houses 2, 4 & 10. Hence 
whenever XI house is referred, it automatically 
stands as acombination of 11, 2,4 & 10 org, 
12,2& 8to Ill. Thus it becomes an unfavourable 
house to the Ill house matters. 


The principles of linkage of the XI house 


with the Ill house are as follows: 


3,1 
3,2 
3,3 


3,4 


3,5 
3,6 
3,7 
3,8 
3,9 


3,10: 
Bll: 
Si. 


Satisfactory information 

Discontinuity in information 

Faults and repairs in communication 
equipments 

Increasing satisfaction through additional 
information 

Satisfactory agreements 

Success in litigations 

Pleasures out of planned meeting 
Dissatisfactions of life 

Successful trends in negotiations, 
communications and agreements 
Transfers, as expected 

Expected information 

Sale in expected terms 


In this example, XI house is linked with 


houses 2, 4 & 10. Hence, the native can never 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 196 


reach an agreement with others during the DBA 
periods of Jupiter, while it transits in the star of 
Mars, the III sublord. Further, the DBA periods of 
Jupiter would disturb the harmony in romantic 
life. 

Ion XI: 


The principles of linkage of the III house 
with the XI house are as follows: 


11,1: Fulfilment of desires through self efforts 

11,2: Fulfillment of desires by improving the 
financial position 

11,3: Man of self satisfactions 

11,4: Litigations in properties 

11,5: Sexual pleasures with whom the native 
is in love 

11,6: Success in litigations as desired 

11,7: Marriage with person of native's choice 

11,8: Life full of struggles, litigations in 
properties 

11,9: Agreements and negotiations, as desired 

11,10: Transfer to the place of native's choice 

11,11: Untiring efforts to acheive 

11,12: Lending goods as per personal interests 


house, with 6 & 7 in its bag, or to say, 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 197 


5, 8 & 9, while to acton the XI house, during the 
periods of Mars when it transits in the star of 
Jupiter, the XI sublord, would enable the native 
to attain success through communications. 


Xllon Ill: 


XII house is neutral to the III house. In 
this chart, the 12th sublord Venus is in the star of 
Moon, the 9th sublord and in its own sub; Hence, 
XII always carries 9 & 12 with it. Itis 7 & 10 to 
the Ill house, which means that the 12th house 
has become unfavourable to the Ill house. 


The principles of linkage of the XII house 
with the Ill house are as follows: 


3,1: Return to the native place 

3,2: Return of goods, which were lost 

3,3: Return of documents, which were issued 

3,4: Return of properties, which were 
mortgaged 

3,5: Secret love letters 

3,6: Secret legal proceedings 

3,7: Secret letters or affairs of L/B partners 

3,8: Secret threatenings and black-mails, 
secret confusions 

3,9: Secret research, foreign journeys 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 198 


3,10: Return to the same job or profession 
or to the same service 

3,11: Relieved from the litigations of documents 

3,12: Illegal resale of sold articles 


inthis example, the 12th house is 9 & 12. 
When it establishes a contact with the III house, 
it becomes 3, 9 & 12. This combination would 
indicate frequent journeys, failures in getting due 
returns on investments, difficulties in getting 
repayments of the loans, researches to reveal 
the secrets etc,.These could be experienced by 
the native during the DBA periods of Venus, while 
it transits in the star of Mars. 


Ill on Xl: 


The principles of linkage of the Ill house 
with the XII house are as follows: 


12,1: Leaving the native place due to 
subversive activities 

12,2: Increase in the savings 

12,3: Loss of secret articles 

12,4: Sale of properties due to secret activities 

12,5: Loss in secret love affairs 

12,6: Amputation of an organ by way of 
diseases 


"Applications of Cuspal_Interlinks" 199 
12,7: Seizure of binami properties 

12,8: Unexpected losses 

12,9: Foreign journeys 

12,10: Commercial business as II profession 
12,11: Secret agreements 

12,12: Loss of secretly preserved articles 


lll house, with 6 & 7 in its bag, or to say, 
4, 7 & 8, while to act on the XII house, during the 
DBA periods of Mars when it transits in the star 
of Venus, the XII sublord, would enable the 
native to suffer from failures in his investments. 


Conclusion: 


Thus we have come to the end of our 
study of the IIl house and its actions and 
reactions on and from the remaining houses. As 
per the combinations, the results vary. 


There may arise a doubt to some of the 
readers as to why we should study about the 
impact of the remaining houses on the III house, 
while the respective sublords do not maintain a 
direct linkage i.e., while they never reside in the 
star or sub of the Ill sublord in the natal chart. 
For example, in the given chart, as Saturn 
and Ketu are in the star and sub of Mars 
respectively, and Mars _ itself as the sublord of 


‘Applications of Cuspal_ Interlinks" 200 


the Ill house are the only direct indicators of 
the Ill house. But it confines the scope of 
communicating to sell something or the other, or 
reaching an agreement. Hence it means that the 
native is expected to wait till the BA periods of 
Saturn, Ketu or Mars. That also belittles the life 
of the native to receive the combined effects of 8 
& 3 during the periods of Saturn and 2 & 3 
during the periods of Ketu and 1 & 3 during the 
periods of Mars. Keeping one's life to such 
subjective and artificial limits would end as 
unscientific. What would be the role of the 
remaining 6 planets other than Saturn, Ketu & 
Mars as per the example chart, while they 
happen to transit in the star of Mars? {Rahu and 
Jupiter will transit in Mars star for a period of about 
four months} Isn't it a fact that they are also 
expected to do some favour or cause for 
damages to the III house ? 


Here comes the significance of "CUSPAL 
INTERLINKS". We can derive the significations 
of every planet from the natal chart itself, by 
assessing their potential as how these planets 
would behave during their DBA periods and during 
their transit in the star of the sublord of a house. 


As per the given example, the combined 
effects of Cuspal Interlinks of 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 201 


SUN 6,12, 5&11 >on Ill 
MOO 9,6&7 >on Ill 
MAR 1,3,6&7 -> on Ill 


MER 2,4,10,12&7 ->onill 
JUP §,11,2,4&10 ->onill 


VEN 1289 >on Ill 
SAT 8,1,3,5& 11 ->on Ill 
RAH 8,7&6 >on Ill 
KET 2, 12,1 &3 >on Ill 


could be experienced by the native during 
their respective DBA periods, while they transit 
in the star of Mars, the sublord of the III house. 
This is what the beauty and the essence of the 
"Principles of Cuspal Interlinks" 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 202 


IV HOUSE 
HOUSE OF PROPERTIES 


Lands, House or Dwelling Place, Vehicles, 
Rare articles, Agricultural Fields, Farms, Estates, 
Mines, Buildings, Ancestral properties, 
Treasures, Schools and Colleges, Boats, Oil 
wells, Wells, Bore wells, Tents, Ponds, 
Productions, Entrance of a House, Medicinal 
Plants etc are some of the significations of the 
Ath house that are unrelated to the Asc. 


Ath house, as it is 3, 1, 11,9 &5 to houses 
2, 4, 6, 8 & 12 respectively, becomes favourable 
to these houses. 4th house would stand 
unfavourable to houses 1,5, 9 & 10{4,12,8&7 
to them}. It would stand neutral to houses 3, 7 & 
11 {2,10 & 6}. While the sublords of the 
remaining cusps reside in the star or sub of the 
sublord of the 4th house, the results would 
depend on the nature of favour by the 4th house 
to them. As they happen to reside in the star or 
sub of the sublord of the 4th house, the said 
houses intend to register a mark of their reaction 
on the 4th house, which are as follows. 


| on lV: Graveyard, Residence, Education 
to handle machineries. 
Il on IV: Valuable goods, Bungalow 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 203 


Ill on IV: Godown or Barter exchange 

Von IV: Production, House, Vehicle, Primary 
Education, & Household appliances. 

V on IV: Casino, Banquet Halls 

Vion IV: Hotels, Hospitals, Rent, Loans, 
Manufacturing dresses, Readymades 

Vilon IV: The Tenant, Lease-holder of our 
properties, Seller. 

Villon IV: Properties through will or charter. 

IXon IV: Ancestral property, Church or Temple, 
Trust House, Mortgage, Trust 
agreements 

X on lV: Industry, Constructed House, 
Organisations. 

Xlon lV: Marriage Halls, Lodges, Banquet Halls, 
Universities 

Xilon IV: Binami properties. Oil Wells, Wells, 
Treasures and Hide-outs. 


Houses 2, 4, 6, 8 & 12 would become 
favourable houses to the IV house as they are 
11, 1, 3, 5& 9th to the IV house; Houses 7, 10, 
11 & 3 are unfavourable houses to the IV house 
as they are 4, 7,8& 12thto the IV house. Houses 
1,5&9 are 10, 2 &6to the IV house to remain 
as neutral houses. Depending upon the 
residence of the sublord of the IV house in the 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 204 


star or sub of the remaining cusps, the IV house 
gets modified. As the sublord of the IV house 
becomes a resident or carrier of the relevant 
cusps, by being in the star or the sub of the 
relevant houses would intend to register its 
reactions on the remaining houses, which are as 
follows: 


IV on 1: Status through properties 

IV on 2: Income through properties 

IV on 3: Loss or sale of properties 

IV on 4: Doubling the properties 

IV on 5: Collection of rare paintings, Musical 
instruments etc 

I¥on6 _ Purchase of properties, Construction 
of 2nd storey etc 

IVon 7 Multiplying social relations 

IVon 8 Accident in Vehicles 

I¥Von 9 Acquiring House on Mortgage, 
Borrowed vehicle 

Von 10 Industry 

I¥Von 11 Hurdles in constructions, Litigations in 
properties 

IV on 12 Investment in properties. 


This is how the IV house acts on and gets 
reactions from the remaining 11 houses. 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 205 
POTENTIAL of the IV HOUSE: 


Now let us presume the 4th house as the 
ascendant for studying the potential of the 4th 
house. Inthe given example, Mercury, the sublord 
of the 4th house is in the star of Venus, the 
sublord of the 12th house and is in the sub of 
Rahu, the sublord of the 7th house. 12th house 
is a favourable house to the 4th {9th to the 4th} 
but 7th house is an unfavourable house to the 
4th: The star proposes and the sub 
disposes; Hence the potential of the 4th house 
is very weak in this chart. 


As the readers are aware that every house 
is actually meant for the Asc or to say for 
prosperous living of the native. Here in this 
example, through its potential, the 4th house is 
not going to serve meaningfully for the purpose 
of the Ascendant as 12th & 7th are houses of 
worries to the Asc. 


Jupiter, the sublord of the houses 5 & 11 
is in the star and the sub of Mercury, the sublord 
of the 4th house. No other planet is directly 
connected to Mercury. The impact of houses 5 & 
11 would remain permanent, such as the 
collection of artistically valued and rare articles, 
visit to temples and casinos, visit to lodges and 
participation in feasts and festivals etc., 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 206 


But, the remaining 10 houses would also 
act for the 4th house, through their respective 
sublords, during their DBA periods and at the time 
when they are also in transit of the star of 
Mercury. 

ASC on IV: 


The sublord of the Ascendant, a naturally 
neutral house to the 4th house, is Mars which is in 
the star of Sun, the 6th sublord and in the sub of 
Rahu, the 7th sublord. Houses 6 & 7 become 3 & 4 
to the 4th house, leading to an unfavourable link. 


Some of the Hindu saints have identified 
their samadhis even within their life-times. A great 
scholar in Tamil, Shri Ki.Aa.Pe.Viswanathan, had 
purchased a farm and specified a place as 
graveyard for himself at the banks of the river 
Cauvery. This could be possible only when the 
Asc is linked with houses 4 & 7. Here in this chart, 
there is no such possibility as the Asc is linked 
only with houses 6 & 7. 


General principles of linkage of the Asc 
with the IV house are as follows: 


4,1 Landlord with Status 
42 Landlord with good Monetary Income 
43 Real Estates 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 207 


4,4: Involvements in Agriculture 

4,5: Poultry and Farms 

4,6: Service in Industries 

4,7: Self enterprise in Manufacturing Fields 
4,8: Reproduction and Recycling Process 
4,9: Teacher 

4,10: Industrialist 

4,11: Happy life with Income from Assets 
4,12: Investments in Properties 


In this example chart, since the Asc 
always carries 6 & 7 with it, it may enable the 
native, subsequent to hard labour and self 
efforts, to acquire lands, houses, vehicles or 
household appliances either through loans or 
through hire-purchases etc, eventhough 
potentially the native can never own a land for a 
long period of time in his personal name but 
during the DBA periods of Mars, while it also 
happens to transit in the star of Mercury. 


IV on ASC: 


General principles of linkage of the IV 
house with the Asc are as follows: 


1,1: Status through Education and Properties 
1,2: Income and Status through Properties 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 208 


1,3: Publicity and Status through Properties 

1,4: Status with Studies 

1,5: Status through Education in the fields 
of Arts and Culture 

1,6: Chemical Manufacturing 

1,7: Public Relationships and Social Nature 

1,8: Profession in Accident Insurance fields 

1,9: Higher studies and Professor 

1,10: Industrial Ownership 

1,11: Status through Excellence in Education 

1,12: Status through Research and Education 


4th house as a naturally unfavourable 
house to the Asc, and a carrier of 12 & 7 with it, 
during the DBA periods Mercury, while Mercury 
transits in the star of Asc sublord Mars, would 
distract the inclination of the Asc from studies 
and would enable the native to dispose his 
properties. 

Ilon IV: 


The II house is favourable to the IV house. 
Mercury, the Il sublord is in the star of Venus, the 
sublord of the 12th house and in the sub of Rahu, 
the sublord of the 7th house. Houses 12 & 7 are 
not the favourable houses to the 4th house and 
thus making one of the favourable houses as idle 
and weak. 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks” 209 


General principles of linkage of the Il 
house with the IV house are as follows: 


4,1: Properties and Status through Income 

4,2: Multiplication of Money and Properties 
through Income 

4,3: Jewellery productions and sales 

4,4: Manufactuing valuable products 

4,5: Manufacturer of highly valuable and 
artistically excellent articles 

4.6: Industrial Finance 

4,7: Banker 

4,8: Safety Lockers 

4,9: Trustees 

4,10: Jewels and Diamonds manufacturer 

4,11: Investments on disputed properties 

4,12: Investments through valuable articles 


In this example chart, Il house has 12 & 7 
with it; it would induce the native to purchase 
valuable articles and thus to indulge in 
extravagant expenditures during the DBA 
periods of Mercury, the II sublord, while it also 
transits in its own star. 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 210 
Von Il: 


General principles of linkage of the IV 
house on the Il house are as follows: 


2,1: Enjoyment by liquidating ancestral 
properties 
2,2 Profits in the filed of LVHP 
2,3 Mortgaging the properties 
2,4 Construction of a bungalow by utilizing 
his savings 
2,5 Income through artistically valued goods 
2,6 Borrowings in LVHP 
2,7. ~+Permanent residentship of relatives 
with the native 
2,8: | Unexpected gains in the field of LVHP 
2,9: | Financial troubles in the field of LVHP 
2,10 Profession in the field of manufacturing 
2,11 Profits in construction of bungalows 
2,12 Investments in the field of LVHP 


IV house as a naturally favourable house 
to the Il house, and because being a carrier of 
12 & 7 with it, during the DBA periods of its 
sublord Mercury, while Mercury transits in its own 
star, would drag the native to invest in properties 
and subsequently to suffer from losses. 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks” 211 
I on IV: 


Ill house is house of negation to the IV 
house. The sublord of the II! house, Mars, is in 
the star of Sun, the sublord of the 6th house and 
in the sub of Rahu, the sublord of the 7th house. 
Hence the Ill house is connected to houses 6 & 
7 or to say houses 3 & 4 to the 4th. The sub 
protects the favour of the star and finally dilutes 
the negative nature of the Ill house on the IV 


General principles of linkage of the Ill 
house with the IV house are as follows: 


4,1:  Statusful broker 

4,2: Profits in brokership businesses 

4,3: Lessor, Building contractors 

4,4: Brokers of Stock exchange 

4,5: Hirer of artistically valued goods or 
Handicrafts 

4,6: Change of Lease Agreements into Hire 
Agreements 

4,7: Labour Contracts 

4,8: Contracts in the field of Sanitation & 
Wastages 

4,9: Winning tenders 

4,10: Barter Exchange 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 212 


4,11: Manufacturing against orders 
4,12: Broker for Industrial Investments 


In this example chart, Mars, the III sublord 
is carrying 6 & 7 or to say 3 & 4 to the IV house 
and thus would enable the native to enter into 
agreements on purchase of properties during its 
DBA periods while it is also in transit of the star 
of Mercury, the IV sublord. 


Von Ill: 


General principles of linkage of the IV 
house with the II! house are as follows: 


3,1: Leaving the native place 

3,2: Income and gains in the sale of 
properties 

3,3: Loss of Properties 

3,4: Return of goods mortgaged 

3,5: Writing articles and essays in the field 
of Education 

3,6: Change of schools or change of courses 
of Education 

3,7. Separations from the relatives 

3,8 | Forged documents of Properties 

3,9 Agreements in lieu of Properties 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 213 


3,10: Sale of Industrial Goods 
3,11: Distributor/ Dealer of industrial goods 
3,12: Sale of Properties 


4th house as a naturally neutral house to 
the Ill house, and because it is a carrier of 12 & 
7 with it in this example chart, during the DBA 
periods of its sublord Mercury, while Mercury 
transits in the star of Mars, the sublord of the III 
house, would make the client to suffer due to the 
cancellation of agreements by the other parties, 
though they had been agreed to earlier. 


IV on IV: 


IVth house is a naturally beneficial house 
to itself. But here the potential of the 4th house 
is weak to itself by its adverse link of 12 & 7. 


General Drinciples of linkage of the IV 
house to itself are as follows: 


4,1: Status and Properties 

4,2: Income and Properties 

4,3: Living in a house for rent though he owns 
a house in his name 

4,4: Immovable Properties 

4,5: Steady increase of Properties 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 214 


4,6: Multiple Purchases 

4,7: Depending on the Relatives 

4,8: Properties gained as Donations 

4,9: Steady showing of Excellence in 
Education 

4,10: Profession in the field of LVHP 

4,11: Owner of Properties with Litigations 

4,12: Binami Properties of Native 


4th house as a naturally favourable house 
to itself, but because it is a carrier of houses 12 
& 7 inthis example chart, during the BA periods 
of its sublord Mercury, while Mercury transits in 
its own star, would make the client to be 
incapable of liquidating his investments made in 
lands, propertieor valuables. 


Von IV: 


V house is a neutral house to the 4th 
house. In this chart, Jupiter, the sublord ofthe 5 
& 11th houses resides in the star & sub of 
Mercury, the sublord of houses 2, 4 & 10. This 
linkage, as itis 11,1 & 7 to the 4th house would 
render strong & favourable scope to the 4th 
house. 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 215 


General principles of linkage of the V 


house with the IV house are as follows: 


4,1: 
42: 
43: 
4,4: 
45: 
46: 
47: 
4.8: 
4,9: 


4,10: 


4,11: 
4,12: 


Status through production of Artistic 
Goods 

Income through production of Artistic 
Goods 

Seller of Artistic Goods 

Teacher of Arts and Culture 

Novel attempts in the production of 
Artistic Goods 

Service in the production centre of 
Artistic Goods 

Partnership firm in production of Artistic 
Goods 

Reprocessing the Artistic Goods 
Professor in the fields of Arts & Culture 
Profession in the industry of Arts and 
Culture 

Purchaser or collector of Artistic Goods 
2nd profession in the fields of Arts and 
Culture 


In this example, Jupiter, the sublord of the 


V house is linked to houses 2, 4 & 10. Hence 
during its DBA periods, Jupiter would enable the 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 216 


native to earn through production of instruments 
of Arts and Music. The V sublord when linked to 
houses 2, 6 & 10 and with Mercury, the karaka 
planet for astrology, one would become an 
astrologer. V house when linked to houses 4 & 
10, one would become a teacher of 
astrology. V house when linked to houses 1 & 
10, one would gain respects as a statusful 
astrologer. V house, when linked with houses 5 
& 9, one would never become an astrologer, while 
the linkage of 9 & 12 would mean the research 
in the field of astrology. Here in this example 
chart, the linkage with houses 2, 4 & 10 along 
with the karaka planet Mercury, by the sublord of 
the 5th house Jupiter, would enable the native to 
be a professional astrologer and also a teacher 
of astrology during DBA periods of Jupiter. 


Von V: 


General principles of linkage of the IV 
house with the V house are as follows: 


5,1: Learning Arts and Culture 

5,2: Learning the art of Singing and rendering 
Speeches 

5,3: Writing Skills 

5,4: Producer of Artistic Goods 

5,5: Dancer 


“Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 217 

5,6: Multiple fields of Arts and Culture 

5,7. Co-ordinator of talents in the fields of 
Arts and Culture 

5,8: Editor in the fields of Arts and Culture 

5,9: Arts Teacher 

5,10: Profession as suited to his Academic 
Qualifications in the fields of Arts and 
Culture 

5,11: Mass appeal in the fields of Arts and 
Culture 

5,12:' Research in the fields of Arts and Culture 


4th house as a house of negation to the V 
house, and.because it is a carrier of 12 & 7 with 
it, in this example chart, during the DBA periods 
of its sublord Mercury, while Mercury transits in 
the star of Jupiter, the sublord of the V house, 
would make the client to purchase artistically 
valuable goods with a profit motive subsequently 
to suffer financially. 


VI on IV: 


VI house is a house of favour or house of 
multiplicity to the IV house. Inthis example, Sun, 
the sublord of the 6th house resides in the star 
of Venus, the sublord of the 12th house and in 
the sub of Jupiter, the sublord of houses 5 & 11. 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 218 


Hence the 6th house becomes a carrier of houses 
5, 11 & 12 to mean as 2, 8 & 9 to the 4th house. 
Thus a favourable house becomes a neutral 
house. 


General principles of linkage of the VI 
house with the IV house are as follows: 


4,1: Allottment of Staff Quarters with Status 
in service 

4,2: Income, Vehicle, Household Appliances 
provided in Service 

4,3: Leaving the Staff Quarters 

4,4: Ownership of the allotted Staff Quarters 

4,5: Residing in the Guest Houses of the 
Company 

4,6: Vehicle and Staff Quarters allotted in 
Service 

4,7:  Care-taker of Staff Quarters 

4,8: Forming a Residential Colony with 
colleagues 

4,9:  Allottment of houses, constructed by the 
company, for sale to Staff against monthly 
deductions from Salary 

4,10: Allottment of house, purchased by the 
company on behalf of the native 


“ Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 219 


4,11: Litigations in the allottment of Staff 
Quarters 

4,12: Modifying the Staff Quarters at his 
personal expenses, by the native 


Here in this example chart, the linkage is 
12, 5 & 11 to enable the native to practically try 
with certain traditional medical principles during 
the DBA periods of Sun. { In this example, Mars 
Dasa was over at his age of 21 years } The 4th 
house has negated his moderate education. 
Under this situation, the favourable potential has 
become null and void. 


The 6th sublord when linked with houses 
4 & 10, one would involve in the production of 
textiles and garments. Ifthe linkage is with 5 & 
10, then the native would become a tailor. If the 
linkage is with 3 & 12, then the native would be a 
retail seller of garments. If the linkage is with 3, 9 
& 12, then the native would be an exporter of 
garments. But here is a link of 12, 5 & 11 inthis 
Chart by the 6th house. The native may learn (5) 
the art of tailoring during the DBA periods of Sun, 
but there is no scope to practise as a professional. 


"Applications of Cuspal_ Interlinks" 220 
Von VI: 


General principles of linkage of the IV 
house with the VI house are as follows: 


6,1: Status through possession of many 
Properties 

6,2: Multiple and Ancestral Properties 

6,3: Acquisition of a Property through sale of 
some other Property 

6,4: Purchase of a Property by raising loans 
over the Property under possession 

6,5: Sale of the 2nd Property after purchase 

6,6: Raising loans over the recently purchased 
2nd property 

6,7: Developing the 2nd property, subsequent 
to its purchase 

6,8: Accumulation of Properties after 
Properties 

6,9: Purchase of the Il Property with others' 
money 

6,10: Purchase of a Construced House or 
Buildings or Industry as the 2nd Property 

6,11: Litigations on the 2nd Property 

6,12: Construction of a House in the plot 
acquired as the 2nd Property 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 221 


4th house as a naturally favourable house 
to the VI house, and by being a carrier of 12 & 7 
in this example chart, during the DBA periods of 
its sublord Mercury, while Mercury transits in the 
star of Sun, the sublord of the VI house, would 
make the client to increase the investments by 
acquiring further loans. 


Vil on IV: 


Vil house is an unfavourable house to the 
IV But here in this chart, the 7th sublord Rahu 
resides in its own star and in the sub of Sun, the 
5th sublord. So 7th stands as 7 & 6 to become a 
favourable house to the 4th house. 


General Principles of linkage of the VII 
house with the IV house are as follows: 


4: Visit of Relatives, near and dears 

4&1: Living with In-Laws. 

4&2: Dissatisfaction of Wife/Husband 

4,3 & 8: Litigations on Properties caused 
by Partners/Wife/Husband. 

4,3&9: Temporary separation of Wife/ 
Husband 

4&5: Harmonious family life. Soft attitude 
of Wife/Husband towards relatives of 


"Applications of Cuspal_ Interlinks" 222 
native 

4&6: Income through Partner/Wife/Husband 

4,6,10,12: Denial of Marriage 


4,8: Enmity with Relatives 

4,9: Knowledge through experience and 
Problems due to Illegal Activities 

4,10: Partnership Business 


4,11: The joyful Joint Family 

4,12: Wife or Husband would be an 
employee, Frequent health problems 
of the Partner 


In the case of our example, it is 7 & 6 to 
link with 4 to mean that the relatives would not 
make frequent visits to the residence of the 
native; Not a harmonious married life; No 
success in partnership firms; Opponents could 
not gain from the native; No prospect of income 
from wife etc., The above could be experienced 
during the DBA periods of Rahu, the sublord of 
the 7th house when it also makes a transit in the 
star of Mercury, the 4th sublord. 


Von VI: 


General principles of linkage of the IV 
house with the VII house are as follows: 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 223 


7,1: 
7,2: 
7,3: 


7,4: 


7,5: 
7,6: 


7,7: 
7,8: 
7,9: 


7,10: 


TA: 
Fi bs 


Affinity towards Relatives 

Profits thhough Relatives 

Relatives leaving from the Residence of 
the native, Affinity with people speaking 
different languages through relatives 
Permanent stay of Relatives in the 
Residence of the native 

Visit of Relatives for a Family Get-Together 
Separation or differences of opinons 
with relatives 

Dependency on Relatives 

Troubles caused in Relationships 
Affinity with people belonging to different 
Religions, through Relatives 

Joining tne native and his Family with 
Relative 

Close affinity with Relatives 

Incurring losses by way of Relationships 


4th house as a neutral house to the VII 


house, and because it is a carrier of 12 & 7 with 
it in this example chart, during the DBA periods 
of its sublord Mercury, while it transits in the star 
of Rahu, the sublord of the VII house, would force 
the client to increase his loans. 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 224 
Villon IV: 


VIII house is a house of favour to the IV 
house. In this chart, the VIIl sublord Saturn is 
residing in the star of Mars, the sublord of houses 
1 & 3 and in the sub of Jupiter, the sublord of 
houses 5 & 11. Now, VIII becomes the significator 
of houses 1,3, 5 & 11 or 10, 12,2 & 8 to the IV to 
stand as an unfavourable house. 


General principles of linkage of the VIII 
house with the IV house are as follows: 


1,4: Binami properties, Unexpected 
Properties, Unclaimed properties 

14 & 8: Accident to the Native while he drives 
a Vehicle. 

1,4,8 &11: Accident both to the Native & the 
Vehicle 

1,384: A learned Fool 

1,4& 10: Hard Worker 

1,4 8&8: Cruel Accident 

2&4: Unexpected Income and Property 

3&4: Secret plans, Secret losses, Damage 
through Rumours. 

4&5: Name and fame through Properties or 
Possessions 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks” 225 


4&6: Intensity in Sufferings due to Diseases 

4&7: Problems through Relatives 

4,8 &11: Abduction of Properties by Opponents. 

4&9 : Unexpected Ancestral Properties 

4&10: Service in Insurance Companies, 
Accident Wards etc 

4& 11 : Litigations’ arised out of Properties 

4 & 12 : Secret Production, Adulteration 


In the example chart, the VIII house has 
the link of 1,3, 5 & 11 permanently. While Saturn 
transits in the star of Mercury, it would become 
1,3, 4,5, 11 & 8. This combination would give 
worries in his family life but would stand 
favourable to his longevity. The native would 
show needed courage to carry on with his 
professional ventures. However there would be 
problems in lands and vehicles etc. Native's 
health may not remain sound; At the time of 
death, this link would cause for the suddenness 
of his end. 

IV on VIII: 


General principles of linkage of the IV 
house with the Vill house are as follows: 


8,1: Accidents in Vehicles 
8,2: Insurance Claims in Accidents 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 226 


8,3 Expiry of Insurance coverage for Vehicles 

8,4 Maturity of Insurance Policies 

8,5 Inability to Claim Insurance money 

8,6 Raising loans out of Insurance Policies 
(LIC housing finance) 

8,7 Insurance Policies to co-travellers 

8,8 Litigations on Insurance Documents 

8,9 Assistance for spare parts and 
accessories through Insurance Policies 

8,10: Industrial Insurance 

8,11: Insured goods in transit, Insured posts etc 

8,12: Insurance for Investments and Capital 


4th house as a favourable house to the 
Vil house, and because it is a carrier of 12 & 7 
in this example chart, during the DBA periods of 
the 4th sublord Mercury, while it transits in the 
star of Saturn, the sublord of the VIII house, would 
lead to unlawful seizure of native's assets, 
holdings or possessions. 


IX on IV: 


IX house is a neutral house to the IV 
house. In this chart, the 9th sublord Moon is in 
Sun star and Rahu sub. Sun is the 6th sublord 
and Rahu is the 7th sublord. So the 9th house 
carries 6 & 7 With it to link with the 4th house. 


“Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 227 


Houses 6, 7 & 9 becomes 3, 4 & 6 to the 4th 
house. [t becomes a favourable link. 


The significations of the Sth house to Jink 
with the 4th house are as follows : 


4: Winning Ancestral Properties, Higher 
Education following strenuous efforts, 
Blocks in Illegitimate Affairs, Hurdles in 
long journeys, Breach of agreements, 
Research. 

4&1: Prospects of Higher education — ae 

4&2: Rich by birth, Winning Aggestiai 
Properties and money 

4&3: Loss of Properties and Holdings 

4&5: Excellence in Education and Wisdom 

4&6: Rents from Ancestral Properties or Cash 

48/7: Marriage with a distant relative 

4&8: Break in Higher Education, End of 
Journey 

4&9: Favourable Prospects for Higher 
studies 

4 & 10: Teaching as a Profession 

4 & 11: Excelfence in Higher Studies, Litigations 
on Ancestral Properties 

4812: Further Investment or losses in 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 228 
Ancestral Properties. 


In this example, the 9th {6 & 7} house 
would assure a scope for winning ancestral 
properties; knowledge through experience; 
illegal affairs leading to disharmony with wife; 
success in researches, happy journeys, fulfilment 
of agreements, suicide of the girl who had an 
illegal affair with the native etc. 


The above could be experienced by the 
native during the DBA periods of Moon, while it 
also transits in the star of Mercury. 


IV on IX: 


General principles of linkage of the IV 
house with the IX house are as follows: 


9,1: Winning Confidence through Properties 

9,2: Income through Ancestral means and 
values Institution of Finance 

9,3 _ Institution of Transport 

9,4 Institution of Education 

9,5 Institution of Spiritual Education 

9,6 Institution of Legal Study 

9,7 _ Institution of Social Science 

9,8 Institution of Secret Arts and Magics 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 229 


9,9: Institution of Research 

9,10: Institution of Industrial Research (R & D) 
9,11: Institution cf Research in Education 
9,12: New Inventions through Research 


4th house as an unfavourable house to 
the IX house, and by being a carrier of 12 & 7 
with it in this chart, during the DBA periods of its 
sublord Mercury, while it also transits in the star 
of Moon, the sublord of the IX house, would lead 
to discontinuation or failures in the research 
efforts of the native. 

X on IV: 


X house is an unfavourable house to the 
4th house. Mercury is also the sublord of the 10th 
house and is in the star of Venus, the 12th sublord 
and in the sub of Rahu, the 7th sublord. Houses 
10, 12 & 7 would become 7, 9 & 4 to the 4th 
house; Hence the 10th house would only do 
unfavours to the 4th house. 


The significations of the 10th house to link 
with the 4th house: 


4,1 Improvement in Status due to Profession 

4,2 Land lord and a Rich person 

4,3. Manufactuing cum Retail sales as 
Profession 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 230 


4: Purchase of a constructed house or 
Production Industry as the profession 

4,5: Production of Artistically valued goods. 

4,6: Service in Construction or Lands or 
Automobile companies. 

4,7: Self Enterprise. 

4,8: Service in Accident Wing or a Surgeon, 
Accident caused by other's vehicle 
leading to injuries. 

4,9: Break in Profession, Intentions and 
motives of others to defeat the native in 
his profession. 

4,10: Engineering as a Profession or Profession 
based on Academic Qualifications. 

4,11: Satisfaction and Status through Lands, 
Houses, Properties etc. 

4,12: Adulterations as a Profession 

48,12: Illegal profession 


In this example chart, the linkage of the 
10th house {12,7} with the 4th house would 
denote the failures and problems while the 
native involves himself in illegal and anti-social 
activities, magics etc,. during the DBA periods 
of Mercury, and when it also transits in its own 
Star. 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 231 
IV on X: 


General principles of linkage of the IV 
house with the X house are as follows: 


10,1: Correspondent of an Educational 
Institution 

10,2: Financier of Industries 

10,3: Journalist in the field of Economics and 
Commerce 

10,4 Producer or Manufacturer 

10,5 Speculation or Stock Exchange 

A0,6 Industrial Labourer 

10,7. Recruitment of Labourers for Industries 

10,8 Reprocessing and Waste Managements 

10,9 Godowns and Stores of Industries 

10,10: Assembling of Spare parts 

10,11: Industrial Tycoon 

10,12: Multiple Industries 


4th house as an unfavourable house to 
the X house, and because it is a carrier of 12 & 7 
with it in this example chart, during the DBA 
periods of its sublord Mercury, while it also 
transits in it own star, would denote 
manufacturing as the nature of second 
profession. 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 232 
Xl on IV: 


XI house is a house of unexpected 
dangers to the IV house. The sublord ofthe 11th 
house Jupiter resides in the star and sub of 
Mercury the sublord of houses 2, 4 & 10. Houses 
2,4 & 10 would become houses 11, 1 & 7 to the 
4th house. Thus the nature of the 11th house 
gets changed into a house of favour to the 4th 
house. 


Principles of linkage of the 11th house to 
the 4th house: 


4,1: Excellence in Education, Master's Degree 

4,2: Bungalow as per the likes of the native 

4,3: Loss of Properties subsequent to 
Litigations 

4: Construction of House as per the likes of 
the native 

4,5: Impotency of Partner leading to 
disharmony 

4,6: Income through Lands, Vehicles and 
Education 

4,7: Meetings with Opposite sex 

4,8: Seizure of Vehicles and Accidents in 
Buildings 


"Applications_of Cuspal_Interlinks” 233 

1,4,8: Accidents to the native 

4,9: Excellence in Higher Education 

4,10: Profession as a teacher in universities 

4,11: Fond of Mother, Frequent repairs in 
Vehicles 

4,12: Investments in Vehicles, Lands to the 
satisfaction of the native 


In this example chart, the linkage of the 
11th sublord is 2, 4& 10. Hence, the native would 
involve in a profession as per his likes and would 
buy a house or a bungalow or a vehicle or 
household appliances or the instruments to his 
likes and tastes, could gain through elder 
brothers, son-in-law and friends to his 
expectations. 


The same would happen during the DBA 
periods of Jupiter, while it also transits in the star 
of Mercury. 

IV on XI: 


General principles of linkage of the IV 
house with the XI house are as follows: 


11,1. Status tnrough Properties, as desired 
11,2 Income through Properties, as desired 
11,3 Disputed Properties 


"Applications of Cuspal_Interlinks" 234 
11,4: Purchase of Disputed Properties, as 


desired 

11,5: Construction of Lodges, Stadiums as 
desired 

11,6: Constructions of Hotels and Hospitals, 
as desired 


11,7: Construction of Marriage Halls, as desired 

11,8: Construction of Operation Theatres as 
desired 

11,9: Construction of Colleges as desired 

11,10: Encroachment ofthe disputed Properties 
by the other parties 

11,12: Losses incurred by way of disputed 
Properties 


4th house as a neutral house to the Xl 
house, and because it is a carrier of 12 & 7 with 
it in this example chart, during the DBA periods 
of its sublord Mercury, while it also transits in the 
star of Jupiter, the 11th sublord, would denote 
difficulties to the native in litigations of lands, 
vehicles etc,. 

Xil on IV: 


XII house is a house of favour to the IV 
house. But in this chart, the 12th sublord is 
Venus and is in the star of Moon, the 9th sublord 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 235 


and in its own sub. Hence 12th is9& 120r6 &9 
to the 4th house to remain as a favourable house. 


The Principles of linkage of the 12th house 


with 4th house are as follows: 


4,1: 


42: 


4,10: 


Secret activities, Education in Research 
fields, Reputation and Respect through 
Investments. 

Getting back the loans, Regaining the 
valuables. 

Loss of memory, Losses, Malfunctioning 
of Organs 

Secret plans, Secret rooms, Secret 
production 

Multiplication of Capital and Investments 
Enormous multiplication of Shares and 
Investments 

Entry of Enemies or Secret Enemies 
Difficulties and Crises in Share Capitals 
Research Education, Financial Crisis 
following undue Investments on 
Properties, Changes in Profession etc, 
Difficulties due to Illegal Activities 
Second profession would be a 
Manufacturing unit, Profession in R & D 


"Applications of Cuspal_Interlinks" 236 
Departments 

4,11: Construction of House after difficulties, 
Problems created by Relatives, Faults 
in Holdings and Valuables. 


In this horoscope, the 12th sublord 
Venus is a carrier of 9 & 12 or 6 & 9 to the 4th 
house. Hence, the native would involve himself 
in illegal activities in researches, undertake long 
journeys, change the profession or face 
financial crisis due to higher investments during 
the DBA periods of Venus, the 12th subJord, while 
it also transits in the star of Mercury, the 4th 
sublord. 

IV on XII: 


General principles of linkage of the IV 
house with the XII house are as follows: 


12,1: Status by way of Investments in 
Properties 

12,2: Gains by way of Investments in 
Properties 

12,3: Sale of already Invested Properties 

12,4: Investment in Properties 

12,5: Developing the Invested Properties 

12,6: Income through Invested Properties 

12,7: Dejections and disappointments through 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 237 


Investments in Properties 
12,8: Getting cheated in Investments of 
Properties 
12,9: Donating the Invested Properties 
12,10: Investing on Industrial Properties 
12,11: Troubles in Investments of Properties 
12,12: Reinvestments in Properties 


4th house as a favourable house to the 
XIl house, and because it is a carrier of 12 & 7 
with it in this example chart, during the DBA 
periods of its sublord Mercury, while it also 
transits in the star of Venus, the sublord of the 
12th house, would multiply the mental tortures 
of the native in his efforts to liquidate the 
investments on properties and vehicles. 


Setting apart their direct linkages, the 
planets would be forced to have a link with the 
4th house during their transit in the star of 
Mercury, the sublord of the 4th house. They would 
react as per their position of favour to the 
significations of the 4th house, that are unrelated 
to the Asc: 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks” 


SUN 
MOO 
MAR 
MER 
JUP 
VEN 
SAT 
RAH 
KET 


3,9, 2& 8 

6, 3& 4 

10, 12,3& 4 
11,1,7,9&4 
2,8,11,1&7 
9, 6 

5, 10, 12,2& 8 
4,3& 5 

9, 10,12 & 11. 


238 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 239 


V HOUSE 
HOUSE OF ARTS & CULTURE 


The Potency, Children, Legal Heirs, 
Hobbies, Intelligence, Celebrations, Sports and 
Games, Fine Arts, Dance, Drama, Drawings and 
Paintings, Cinema, Music, Festivals and 
occassions, Races and Gamblings, Lottery, 
Gains without Labour, The royal Courts, Immense 
Wealth, Shares, Barter Exchange are some of 
the significations ofthe V house that are related 
to the Asc. 


The Asc related and unrelated significa- 
tions of the V house that maintain a link with the 
remaining houses have been listed below: 


I: Versatile in knowledge and thoughts, 
Sports, Hobbies and Habits, 
Entertainments 

I: Commission, Speculation, Gamblings, 
Arts and Culture, Income through Children, 
Songs 

lll: Litreature and writings, Spiritual works, 
Mantras 

IV: Artistically Valuable goods, Inclination to 
learn Arts, Fond of relationships, 
Respecting relatives 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 240 


V: 


VI: 


VIN: 


VIII: 


XI: 


Spiritual Interests, Sports and Games, 
Reproductive capacity or Potency, 
Supervising capacity, Arbitrator, Interest in 
the field of Arts and Culture 

Cure from diseases, Clearing debts, 
Recruitment, Reunion, Diet, Festivals and 
Occassions 

Love making, Harmonious Married life, 
Sociable towards Public, Second Child 


Unexpected reflexes of mind, Sudden 
Wisdom & knowledge, Unexpected 
Romance, Sudden interests in Arts. 
Pilgrimage, Love with unknown persons, 
Illegal affairs, Priests, Teaching moral 
values, Preaching holy thoughts, 
Retirements 

Difficulties in Profession, Damage to Name 
and Fame, Adjustability with others 
especially in Profession 

Good Friendships, Mutual Agreements, 
Contacts with Embassies 


XII: Longevity of the Child, Secret Affairs, Loss 


of articles which were preserved secretly etc,. 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 241 


V house would be a favourable house to 
houses 1, 3, 5, 7 & 9 and would stand against 
houses 2, 6,10 & 11 and would remain neutral to 
houses 4, 8 & 12. These effects could be 


possible 


when the sublord of the concerned 


cusps remain in the star or the sub of the sublord 
of the V cusp. 


Ascon V: 


Il on V: 


I} on V: 


IV on V: 


V onv: 


Vion V: 


VilonV: 


Villon V: 


IX on V: 


Interest in Arts & Music, Romance and 
Happiness 

Singer, Money that is outstanding, 
Purchase of Artistic goods 

Lottery, Race, Stories and Articles in 
Journals 

Excellence in Education, Vedas and 
Arts, Moral Values 

Sincere Love, Resistance capacity, 
Conservative mind 

Relief from illness, Clearing debts, 
Break in service 

Understanding with partner, Love 
Marriage 

Spoiling Reputation both in Business 
and in Romance 

Spiritual Beliefs and Education, Illegal 
Affairs 


"Applications of Cuspal_Interlinks" 242 

X onV: Break in profession, Hurdles, Danger 
to Reputations, Child with illhealth, 
Break in love affairs 

Xl on V: Harmonious love affairs, Friendship, 
Supervising capacity in Profession, 
Success’ in Agreements 

Xllon V: Loss of Secret money or articles, 
Losses through Romance, Child with 
lesser life. 


V house would be favoured by houses 1, 
3, 5, 7 & 9 and would be challenged by houses 
4, 8, 11 & 12. Houses 2, 6 & 10 would remain 
neutral to the V house. This could happen when 
the sublord of the V cusp remain in the star or 
the sub of the concerned cusps. 


V onAsc: Wisdom by birth, Interest in Arts and 


Culture 

Von Il: Income through Arts and Music 

Von Ill: Capacity to write stories, Favours 
to child birth 


Von IV: Producer of Artistically valued 
Paintings, Sculptures, Teacher in 
Artistic fields 

Von V: Sincere love, Resistance capacity, 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 243 


Von VI: 


V onVIl: 


Vonvill 


Von IX: 


Von X: 


Von Xl 


Vonxll: 


Conservative mind 

Dangers to Potency, Diseases in 
Blood cells 

Love Marriage, Birth of Twins, Social 
towards others 

: Spoiling Reputation, Breaks in 
Profession, Dejections in love affairs 
Multiple affairs, Cure from diseases by 
God's Grace, Success in worships, 
Research, Trustee, Service to God, 
Tours to perform Arts 

Professional Success in Arts and 
Culture 

: Harmonious Married life, Name and 
fame through Arts &Culture, Mental 
satisfaction 

Worries and expenditure through 
Affairs, Foreign Tours to express 
Artisitic Skills, Birth of dead child. 


POTENTIAL of the V HOUSE: 


In this chart, the sublord of the V house 


Jupiter | 


s in the star & sub of Mercury, which is 


the sublord of houses 2, 4 & 10. 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 244 


Houses 2, 4 & 10 would respectively 
become houses 10,12 & 6 to the V house. Hence 
the potential of the V house is very weak in this 
chart. V house would render Income through 
professional success as a teacher in the fields 
of Arts and Culture during the DBA periods of 
Jupiter, the sublord of the V house. 


Jupiter as the karaka planet for 2, 4 & 10 
would provide the native with 


i) Collection of Gold and Valuables etc., 
Improvements in Financial Status. 

ii) | Forming an Educational Institution 

iii) Status and Respect 


ASC onV: 


Ascendant is a favourable house tothe V 
house. Asc sublord Mars is in the star of Sun, 
the 6th sublord and in the sub of Rahu, the 7th 
sublord. Houses 6 & 7 are 2 & 3 tothe 5th. Hence 
Ascis a highly favourable house to the 5th house 
matters. 

Principles: 


General principles of linkage of the Asc 
with the 5th house are as follows: 


“Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" PAB 


5: Interest in Sports, Music and arts, Drama 
and Cinema, Intelligence etc. 

5,2: Income through Commissions and from 
the field of Arts 

5,3: Name and fame in the field of Arts and 
Music 

5,4: Impotency, Master in Arts, Producers of 
Artistically Valued goods. 

5,6 Diseases in Blood Cells 

5,7 —_ Love affairs, Happy Married life 

5,8 Damage to Reputations and Respect 

5,9 Illegal Affairs, Addicted to bad habits like 
Srnoking, Drug abuse, Alchohol etc., 
Loss of interest in professions 

5,10: Frequent changes or problems in 
Profession, Music & Arts as career. 

5,11: Harmonious and Care-free life, Sociable 

5,12: Sudden losses, Problems by children, 
Secret love & subsequent troubles. 


Interest in artistic fields, Improvements in 
social relations and harmonious romantic life 
would be assured by Mars, the sublord of Asc, 
during its DBA periods while it also transits in the 
star of Jupiter, the sublord of the V house, 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinksy 2.46 
Von ASC: 


General principles of linkage of the V 
house with the Asc are as follows: 


1,1: Status as a Prodigy 

1,2: Singer, as a Prodigy 

1,3: Writer, as a Prodigy 

1,4: Born Intelligence par excellence 

1,5: Excellence in Fine Arts 

1,6: Successful person as an Artist 

1,7: Specialist in Folk Arts 

1,8: Inability to come to limelight despite 
being a Genius in the fields of Arts and 
Culture 

1,9: Excellence in Spiritual and Religious Arts 

1,10: Status as a Professional Artist in various 
fields 

1,11: Life as an Artist as desired 

1,12: Dedication to the fields of Arts and 
Culture 


V house, as a naturally favourable house 
to the Asc, with 2, 4 & 10 in its bag, would 
enhance his professional life by giving 
materialistic gains to the Asc, during the DBA 
periods of Jupiter, while it also transits in the star 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 247 
of Mars, the sublord of Asc. 


llon V: 


Il house is a neutral house to the V house. 
Mercury is the sublord of the Il house and it 
transits in the star of Venus, the 12th sublord 
and in the sub of Rahu, the 7th sublord. Hence 2 
is now 2,12 &7;i.e., 10,8& 3 to the 5th house to 
remain neutral to the significations of the V house. 


General principles of linkage of the Il 
house with the V house are as follows: 


5: Oratorical skills, Money that is 
outstanding, Respectful Children, 
Artistically valued products 

5,1: Enjoying pleasures from personal savings 

5,3: Versatile Speech, Gains from Lottery 
or Race 

5,4: Cosmetic goods, Jewels and purchase 
of Vehicles 

5,6: Income through Commission, Retirement 
money, Cnit Funds 

5,7: Money getting locked-up with others 

5,8: Damage to reputations in the matters of 
family & finance 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 248 


5,9: Difficulties in getting the Retirement money 

5,10:- Lesser work load in Profession 

5,11: Money transactions through Good Friends 

5,12: Losing money by getting cheated, 
Clearing debts 

5,7,12: Loss or Theft of money 

3,5,9: Missing DD/Cheque 


In this chart 2 is 2, 12 & 7. Hence the 
native can never recover money invested in 
gamblings and speculations and would incur 
losses during the DBA periods of Mercury, the II 
sublord and when it is in transit in the star of 
Jupiter, the 5th sublord. 


Vonti: 


General principles of linkage of the V 
house with the Il house are as follows: 


2,1 Status as a Successful Gambler 

2,2 Income through Lucky Wheels 

2,3 Income from Playing Cards, Lotteries 
2,4 Income through Bettings 

2,5 Income through Speculation on Stocks 
2,6 Income from Horse Races 

2,7. __ Income through Bettings on Contest of 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 249 
Animals and Birds 

2,8: Income from Match-fixings and Criminal 
means 

2,9: Gains in Competitions 

2,10: Professional Gambler 

2,11: Immense flow of money in Gamblings 

2,12: Secret activities while Gambling 


V house, though an unfavourable house 
to the Il house, with 2, 4 & 10 in its bag, would 
enhance the professional life and would bring 
materialistic gains to the native, during the DBA 
periods of Jupiter, while if also transits in the star 
or the sub of Mercury, the sublord of the II house. 


Ilion V: 


Ill house is a favourable house to the V 
house. Inthis chart, the Ill sublord Mars is in the 
star of Sun, the 6th sublord and in the sub of 
Rahu, the sublord of the 7th house. Hence the 
iil house would remain as 3, 6 & 7 or 11,2 & 3to 
the V house and would become highly favourable 
to the significations of the V house. 


General principles of linkage of the III 
house with the V house are as follows: 


‘Applications of Cuspal_Interlinks" 250 
5: Stories and Articles, Lottery and Race 
5,1: Courage and Intelligence 
5,2: Income through Speculation 
5,4: Separation of children, Investments on 
them 
6: Success and Gains through Agreements 
and Competitions 
5,7: Adultery or Love even before teenage 
5,8: Dejections in Agreements 
5,9: Illegal affairs with Neighbour, Pilgrimage 
and Tours, Well Educated 
5,10: Memo, Charge-sheet, Adverse remarks in 
Confidential Reports etc in Professional 
life 
5,8,10: Demotions in Profession 
5,11: Pleasures and Satisfactions through 
Agreements, Friendships. 
5,12: Seizure of Belongings, Loss of Valuables 


5 


In this chart, 3 is 3,6&7; This combination 
would render name, reputation and satisfaction 
for the native through writing articles and books, 
during the DBA periods of Mars, while it also 
transits in the star of Jupiter, the V sublord. 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks” 251 
Von IW: 


General principles of linkage of the 
house with the V house are as follows: 


3,1. Status as a popular Commission Agent 

3,2. Income through Commissions 

3,3 Commissions as a Broker 

3,4 Commission-based Trader 

3,5 Popular Dealer 

3,6 Service in Commission Agencies 

3,7. Marriage Broker 

3,8 Forgery and Cheatings 

3,9 Pimp 

3,10 Professional Agent 

3,11; Agency for arranging Feasts and 
Occassions 

3,12: Commission based Secret Business 
(Black Markets) 


V house, as a naturally favourable house 
to the Ill house, with 2, 4 & 10 in its bag, would 
make the negotiations fail and would breach the 
agreements made during the DBA periods of 
Jupiter, while it also transits in the star of Mars, 
the III sublord. 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 252 
IV on V: 


IV house is a house of negation to the V 
house. In this chart, the sublord of the IV house 
Mercury is in the star of Venus, the 12th sublord 
and in the sub of Rahu, the 7th sublord. Hence 
the IV house stands as 4,12 & 7oras 12,8 &3 
to the V house and thus remains as an 
unfavourable house. 


General principles of linkage of the IV 
house with the V house are as follows: 


5; Interest in Holy Books, Intelligence in 
gaining knowledge 

5,1: Prodigy, Well Educated 

5,2: Income from Lands, Vehicles and Houses 

5,3: Publishing books, Separation from children 

5,6: Viral fever, Diseases in blood cells or in 
productive organs 

5,7: Love affairs with a person belonging to the 
same family or who is living in the, same 
Apartments 

5,8: Damage to Reputation by persons 
belonging to the same family or by persons 
living in the same Apartments 

5,9: Higher studies, Illegal affairs with persons 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks” 253 


of the same family or with persons 
residing in the same Apartments 

5,10: Commissions from Manufacturings 

5,12: Losses through persons of the same 
family or the residents in the same 
Apartments or street 


Inthis chart, lV, because it is 12,8 & 3 to 
the V house, would give birth to a dead child 
and would give unexpected troubles to the 
significations of the V house, during the DBA 
periods of Mercury, during its transit in the star 
of Jupiter, the V sublord. 


Von IV: 


General principles of linkage of the V 
house with the IV house are as follows: 


4,1 _ Love failure by being Egoistic 

4,2 Love failure due to Financial Reasons 

43 Love failure due to problems _ in 
Communications 

4,4 Lack of needed interest in Romance 

4,5 Happy Reunion after Love Failure 

46 Love failure by rejecting Marriage 
Proposals 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks” 254 

4,7: Love failure subsequent to Marriage 

4,8: Love failure due to Shameful 
Circumstances 

4,9: Failure in Love Affair by coming to know 
that the person is already married 

4,10: Love failure subsequent to 
Dissatisfactions 

4,11: Love failure after having Sexual Pleasures 

4,12: Love failure due to Undisclosed Reasons 


V house, as a neutral house .to the IV 
house, with 2, 4 & 10 in its bag, would provide 
favourable scope to the purchase of lands, 
houses and vehicles, during the DBA periods of 
Jupiter, while it also transits in the star of 
Mercury, the IV sublord. 


VonV: 


V house, as a naturally favourable house 
to itself, but with 2, 4 & 10 in its bag, turns 
unfavourable to itself. Hence it would give 
problems to the health of children, failures in love 
affairs, dejections in romance etc, during the DBA 
periods of Jupiter, while it also transits in its own 
Star. 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 255 
VI on VY: 


VI house is a neutral house to the V house. 
In this chart, Sun the 6th sublord resides in the 
star of Venus, the 12th sublord and in the sub of 
Jupiter, the sublord of houses 5 & 11. Hence the 
6th house becomes 6,12, 5& 11 or 2, 8,1& 7 to 
the 5th house to remain as a neutral house. 


General principles of linkage of the VI 
house with the V house are as follows: 


5: Clearing Debts, Cure from Diseases, 
Retirement from Service 

5,1: Blood cell disorders 

5,2: Reliable servants, Money for the period of 
Medical Leave, Tasty Foods, Educating the 
Children in traditional Arts 

5,3: Suspension orders, Adverse remarks in 
PRs'or CRs. 

5,4: Cure from diseases to suffer from some 
other disease 

5,7: Love affairs with the Servants 

5,8: Damage to reputations by servants, 
Problems in service 

5,9: Illegal affairs with servants or subordinates. 
Break in sevice, Borrowings with Higher 


‘Applications of Cuspal_Interlinks" 256 
rate of interest 

5,10: Problems in service created by Superiors, 
Working for a moderate salary 

5,11: Out of court settlements in litigations, 
Friends to assume accountability to clear 
the debts of the native 

5,12: Clearing debts, Change of Profession due 

to problems in the First Profession 


Inthis chartthe 6th house is 6, 12,5 & 11 
or to say 2, 8, 1 & 7 to the 5th house. This 
combination would improve the professional 
status of the native as supervisor and would help 
to get cured from illness. It would also enable 
the native to clear his debts and to reach an 
amicable settlement in litigations during the DBA 
periods of Sun while it is in transit in the star of 
Jupiter, the 5th sublord. 


Von VI: 


General principles of linkage of the V 
house with the VI house are as follows: 


6,1:  Inactiveness due to disorders in blood 
cells 

6,2: Eye-diseases caused by Virus 

6,3: Diseases in sensory organs caused by 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks” 257 


6,4: 


6,5: 
6,6: 


6,7: 


6,8: 


6,9: 


6,10: 


6,11: 


Virus 

Failures in productive organs caused by 
Virus 

Recovered from disorders of blood cells 
Prolonged sufferings due to disorders 
in blood cells 

Infections subsequent to disorders in 
blood cells 

Painful diseases with high intensity 
caused by disorders of blood cells 
Malignant growth caused by disorders 
of blood cells 

Chronic diseases caused by disorders 
of blood cells 

Decrease in resistance power caused by 
disorders in blood cells (AIDS) 


6,12: Failures in functioning of the body caused 


by disorders in blood cells 


V house, as an unfavourable house to the 


VI house, with 2, 4 & 10 in its bag, remains 
neutral to the significations of the Vi house and 
would render permanent diseases in neuro 
system and problems due to sudden increase in 
cholestrol, during the DBA periods of Jupiter, 
while it also transits in the star of Sun, the 6th 
sublord. 


"Applications of Cuspal_Interlinks” 258 
Vil on V: 


Vit house is highly favourable to the V 
house. in this chart, the VII sublord Rahu is in 
the star of Sun, the 6th sublord but in its own 
sub; It means Vil house is 6 & 7 or 2 & 3 to the 
5th house to remain as a favourable house. 


General principles of linkage of the VII 
house with the V house are as follows: 


5,1: Happy and Harmonious married life 

5,2: Gains through partner, Longevity of 
Husband/Wife 

5,3: Selfish, Fond of frequent journeys, Illegal 

* affairs of HAW 

5,4: Disharmony in married life, Marriage 
among relatives 

5,6: Reunion with partner, Secret activities of 
H/W. Affectionate and Possesive H/W 

5,8: Damages to reputation and respect by 
H/W or 2nd Child 

5,9: Copulation with lover, Mutiple love affairs 

5,10: Loving someone who does not care about 
the native, Satisfaction to the opposite 
sex alone. 

5,11: Harmonious married life, Sociable towards 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks” 259 
others in business life 

5,12: Problems caused by opposite sex, 
Seizure of properties 


In this chart, since the 7th house is 6 & 7 
and 2 & 3 to the V house, would enable the 
native for a harmonious married life but would 
deny the scope of success in partnership deeds 
during the DBA periods of Rahu, the 7th sublord 
while it also transits in the star of Jupiter, the V 
sublord. 

Von VII: 


General principles of linkage of the V 
house with the VII house are as follows: 


7,1. Love marriage in a Cordial Atmosphere 

7,2 Love marriage subsequent to problems 

7,3. Love marriage after eloping from the 
native place 

7,4 Love marriage at the native place 

7,5 Harmonious and Happy love marriage 

7,6 Separation after love marriage 

7,7 | Love marriage with social recognition 

7,8 Love marriage subsequent to tensions 
and threatenings 

7,9: Love marriage at a far off place from the 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 260 


native place 

7,10: Love marriage after seeking asylum at 
Police stations 

7,11: Love marriage with the assistance of 
friends 

7,12: Love marriage held secretly or by 
absconding from the native place 


V house, as a naturally favourable house 
to the VII house, with 2, 4 & 10 in its bag, would 
give dejections and dissatisfactions in married 
life but success in professional life and in 
partnerships, during the DBA periods of Jupiter, 
while it also transits in the star of Rahu, the 7th 
sublord. 

Villon V: 


Vill house is an unfavourable house to the 
V house. In this chart, the VIII sublord Saturn is 
in the star of Mars, the sublord of houses 1 & 3 
and in the sub of Jupiter, the sublord of houses 5 
& 11. Hence VIII becomes to be read as 8, 1, 3, 
5&11 or4, 9, 11,1 & 7 to the 5th house. Now an 
unfavourable house turns into a favourable house 
to the 5th house. 


General Principles of linkage of the VIII 
house with the V house are as follows: 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks” 261 


5,1 | Unexpected love affairs 

5,2 | Unexpected profits or commission 

5,3 Sudden wisdom, Sudden expression of 
experience, Thoughts about the past 

5,4: Unexpected Academic knowledge 

5,6: Child Birth due to sudden medical aid, 
Sudden interests in Arts and Culture 

5,7: | Unexpected love marriage 

5,9: | Unexpected and illegal love affairs 

5,10: Unexpected Suspension/Dismissal 

5.11. Unexpected Mutual Agreements 

5,12: Unexpected losses, Clearing debts all 
of a sudden 


In this chart, since the 8th house is 8,1,3,5 
&11 oras 4,9,11,1 & 7 tothe V house, the native 
would not face dangers to his name and fame, 
respect and reputation and need not worry about 
unexpected problems and losses during the DBA 
periods of Saturn, the 8th sublord while it also 
transits in the star or sub of Jupiter, the V sublord. 


Von VIII: 


General principles of linkage of the V 
house with the VIII house are as follows: 


"Applications of Cuspal_Interlinks” 262 


8,1: 
8.2: 
8,3: 


8,4: 
8,5: 
8,6: 
Gyr: 
8,8: 
8,9: 
8,10: 


8,11: 


8,12: 


Tension and mental worries in love affairs 
Wordy quarrels in love affairs 

Rumors and misunderstandings in love 
affairs 

Violent tiffs in love affairs 

Disrespect in love affairs 

Litigations on love affairs 

Growing enmity in love affairs 

Suicide attempts in love affairs 
Dishonesty in love affairs 

Damages to the respect and status in 
love affairs 

Coming out of circumstances that may 
spoil the reputation of the native in love 
affairs 

Absconding subsequent to damages to 
reputation in love affairs 


V house, as a neutral house to the VIII 


house, with 2, 4 & 10 in its bag, would provide 
unexpected gains and would enable him to claim 
insurance money etc, during the DBA periods of 
Jupiter, while it also transits in the star of Saturn, 
the 8th sublord. 


“Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 263 
IX on V: 


IX house is a favourable house to the 5th 
house. Moon is the sublord of the 9th house and 
is in the star of Sun, the 6th sublord and in the 
sub of Rahu, the 7th sublord. Hence 9th house 
becomes 9, 6 & 7 or 5, 2 & 3 to the 5th house to 
remain as a favourable house to the V house. 


General principles of linkage of the IX 
house with the V house are as follows: 


5,1: Excellence in knowledge and thoughts, 
Grace of god 

5,2 Profit and gains through Traditional Arts 

53 Knowledge in mutiple subjects 

5,4 — Institution or Knowledge in Arts and 
Culture 

5,6: Scholarships to studies of Arts and 
Culture, Transplantation 

5,/: 2nd marriage or affairs with strangers 

5,8: Damage to reputations and respect by 
unknown persons or 2nd marriage 

5,10: Profession in the field of Arts and Culture, 
in which the native is academically 
qualified 

5,11: Cordial agreements or negotiations with 


> 


"Applications of Cuspal_Interlinks" 26 


unknown persons 
5,12: Research in foreign arts and culture 


In this chart, the 9th house, because it is 
5, 2 & 3 to the 5th house, would enable the 
native to gain knowledge and wisdom, to express 
his natural abilities, to have faith in religion and 
spiritualism, to proceed on pleasure trips and to 
keep illegal affairs during the DBA periods of 
Moon, the 9th sublord while Moon is in transit in 
the star of Jupiter, the 5th sublord. 


Von IX: 


General principles of linkage of the V 
house with the IX house are as follows: 


9,1 Status as a Spiritual person 

9,2 Income through Spiritual means 

9,3. Popular Spiritual personality 

9,4 Teacher in Spiritual Studies 

9,5 Trustee of Spiritual Institutions 

96 Servant in the schools of Spiritual 
Studies 

9,7 Public service as a Spiritual person 

9,8 Disrespect caused in Spiritual studies 

9,9 Researcher in Spiritual fields, Pilgrimage 

9,10: Priest in Spiritual fields 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks” 265 


9,11: Supernatural powers in Spiritual fields 
9,12: Research studies about Holy Places 


V house, as a naturally favourable house 
to the IX house, with 2, 4 & 10 in its bag, would 
bring the researches to an end, give troubles 
during long journeys and spoil the reputation of 
the native in his illegal affairs, during the DBA 
periods of Jupiter, while it also transits in the star 
of Moon, the IX sublord. 


Xonv: 


X house is a neutral house to the V house. 
In this chart, the sublord of the X house Mercury 
is in the star of Venus, the 12th sublord and in 
the sub of Rahu, the 7th sublord. Hence the X 
house stands as 10,12 & 7 oras 6,8 & 3 to the V 
house and thus becomes as an unfavourable 
house. 


General principles of linkage of the X 
house with the V house are as follows: 


5,1: Problems in Professional life due to 
Immoral Acts 

5,2: Strike or problems to raise wages or 
salary 

5,3: Problems due to change of job/place 


"Applications of Cuspal_Interlinks" 266 

5,4: Jealousy and competitions with 
colleagues 

5,6: Increase in work loads,Problems in 
Promotion 

5,7: | Problems caused by Superiors 

5,8: Damage to Reputation in Professional Life 

5,10: Break in Service 

5,11: Capacity as Supervisor 

5,12: Change of Profession as the first 
Profession is not profit-worthy 

5,9,12:Change of profession by winding up 
the Ist 


In this chart, X, through its link of 6, 8&3 
to the V house, would give unexpected troubles 
such as spoiling the reputation and respect of 
the native in his professional field and in artistic 
life, during the DBA periods of Mercury, during 
its transit in the star of Jupiter, the V sublord. 


Vonx: 


General principles of linkage of the V 
house with the X house are as follows: 


10,1: Status and Respect as a Professional 
Artist 


‘Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 267 

10,2: Income as a Professional Artist 

10,3: Popularity as a Professional Artist 

10,4: Teacher of arts or Producer of Artistically 
Valued goods 

10,5: Poor in the Profession of Arts and 
Culture. 

10,6: Service as a Professional Artist 

10,7: Self ventures in the fields of Arts and 
Culture. 

10,8: Hard labour as a Professional Artist 

10,9: Professional failures as an Artist 

10,10: Reputation as a Professional Artist. 

10,11: Entertaining Professional Artist. 

10,12: Multiple Professions in the fields of Arts 
and Culture 


V house, as a neutral house to the X 
house, with 2, 4 & 10 in its bag, would enhance 
the professional life as teacher in the field of arts 
and bring materialistic gains, status and respect, 
during the DBA periods of Jupiter, while it also 
transits in the star of Mercury, the X sublord. 


XI on V: 


XI house is an unfavourable house to the 
5th house. Jupiter is the sublord of the 11th house 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 268 
and is in the star and the sub of Mercury, the 


sublord of houses 2, 4 & 10. Now, the 11th house 
becomes 7,10, 12, & 6 to the V house. 


General principles of linkage of the XI 


house with the V house are as follows: 


5,1: 


5,2: 


53: 
54: 


5.6: 


SN fe 


5,8: 


5,9: 


5,10: 
5,12: 


Harmonious married life, Love affairs with 
friend 

Higher Commissions through arts and 
culture 

Very good friends, Mutual understandings 
Continuing Education with the assistance 
of friends, Hiring Land or Vehicles 

Cure from diseases, Success in Sports, 
Games 

Marrying a friend or Marriage with the help 
of friends 

Damage to reputations and respect by 
friends 

Illegal affairs with friends, Deep thoughts 
and Wisdom 

Hurdles in Profession due to friends 
Falling prey at the hands of opposite sex, 
introduced by friends to lose money and 
properties 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 269 


XI house, since itis 10, 12,6 & 7 tothe V 
house would spoil the harmonious life of the 
native and would bring failures in love affairs, 
dissatisfactions in life during the DBA periods of 
Jupiter, while it also transits in its own star, as 
sublord of the V house. 


V on XI: 


General principles of linkage of the V 
house with the XI house are as follows: 


11,1: Happy Person 

11,2: Income through happy means 

11,3: Satisfied Person 

11,4: Satisfaction in Collection of Artistic Goods 

11,5: Satisfaction in the fields of Arts and 
Culture. 

11,6: Satisfaction through success in the fields 
of Arts and Culture. 

11,7: Satisfaction through social recognition 
as an Artist 

11,8: Unexpected satisfaction and pleasant 
surprises in the fields of Arts and Culture. 

11,9: Satisfaction in research activities in the 
fields of Arts and Culture 

11,10: Satisfaction by winning reputation in the 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 270 


fields of Arts and Culture 

11,11: Immense satisfaction in the fields of Arts 
And Culture 

11,12: Satisfaction through inventions in the 
fields of Arts and Culture 


V house, as an unfavourable house to the 
XI house, with 2, 4 & 10 in its bag, would bring 
dissatisfactions in spiritual and personal life but 
would enhance the professional life, during the 
DBA periods of Jupiter, while it also transits in it 
own star as it happens to be the sublord of the 
XI house also. 

Xll on V: 


XII house is a house of danger to the V 
house. Venus, the sublord of the 12th house is 
in the star of Moon, the 9th sublord and in its 
own sub to denote the combined significations 
of 9 & 12 or 5 & 8 to the 5th house to form an 
unfavourable combination to the V house. 

General principles of linkage of the XiIl 
house with the V house are as follows: 


5,1: Secret and deep thoughts, Masturbation 

5,2: Secret gains by way of Commission, 
Share capital 

5,3: Secret Articles locked at the hands of 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks” 271 


54: 


56: 


57: 
58: 


59: 


5,10: 


5,11: 


others, Surveillance by Partner 

Articles and Valuables through 
Investments 

Cure from diseases through Diet and 
Medicines 

Secret Love Marriage 

Damage to Reputations and Respect by 
Secret Activities 

Break in 2nd Profession, Secrecy in 
Illegal Affairs 

Loss in First Profession due to excessive 
investments in the 2nd. 

Secret Agreements and_ Secret 
Friendships 


The combination of 9 & 12 or 5 & 8 to the 


5th house by the 12th house in this chart, would 
enable the native to continue his researches in 
the field of arts and would lead to involvements 
in secret activities during the DBA periods of 
Venus, while it also transits in the star of Jupiter, 
the 5th sublord. 


Von XI: 


General principles of linkage of the V 


house with the XII house are as follows: 


"Applications of Cuspal_Interlinks" 272 
12,1: Statusful Investor in the fields of Arts & 
Culture 
12,2: Income as an Investor in the fields of A&C 
12,3: Popular Investor in the fields of A & C 
12,4: Investor and Producer in the fields of A&C 
12,5: Investor and Performer in the fields of A&C 
12,6: Investing and Rendering services in the 
fields of Arts and Culture 
12,7: Incurring losses in investments in the 
fields of Arts and Culture 
8: Getting disappointed by way of 
investments in the fields of Arts and 
Culture 
12,9: Investing for performances abroad inthe 
fields of Arts and Culture 
12,10:Managing the prior investments in the 
fields of Arts and Culture 
12,11: Investments in the fields of A&C as 
desired 
12,12:Re-investments in the fields of A & C 


12 


V house, as a neutral house to the XiIl 
house, with 2, 4& 10in its bag, would enable the 
native to make higher investments, to gain 
through investments, and to gain success in 2nd 
profession, during the DBA periods of Jupiter, 


"Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" 273 


while it also transits in the star of Venus, the 
sublord of XII house. 


PLANETARY SIGNIFICATIONS: 


To the significations of the V house 
matters, the planets would stand as follows: 


MAR........: 9, 11,283 


MER A avee 10, 12,6, 8&2 
JOP sccbees 1,7, 10, 12 &6 
VEIN cents 8:5 

e OAT acdustas Co: ae el = a 
RAH......... 3,2,4 
KET eidtees 10, 8,9& 11 


Even though the planets Sun and Saturn 
remain as the permanent and the routine 
significators to the V house as they happen to 
reside in the sub of Jupiter, the 5th sublord, the 
remaining planets would also act accordingly in 
relation with their combined significations on the 
V house during their respective DBA periods 
while they aiso happen to transit in the star of 
Jupiter, the sublord of the V house. 


