Arudha System of 
Prediction 


_ By 
C.S. Patel 


CONTENTS 


Introduction 

Arudha Pada 

Lagna Pada (from Nadis) 
UpaPada Kundali 

Graha Arudha 

Putra (Mantra) Pada 

Shatru (Roga) Pada 

Dara (Kalatra-Bharya) Pada 
Bhagya (Pitru) Pada | 

Mixed (Vikrama-Bhatru etc.) Pada 


111 
123 


Preface 

The. benign blessings of “Shri Bala Chandrika” 
have enabled me to serve the astrological fraternity as 
a result of which, I am presenting now again in quick 
succession, a long needed treatise, for the first time 
on “Arudha System of Prediction” in English. 


While studying further I came across the follow- 
ing paragraph which drew my attention to the study 
-of Arudha system: (From “My Experiments With Astrology — 
1926 to 1936” by late Dr. B.V. Raman (pages 206-207). 


‘ Importance of Arudha 


“We next visited Pandit Satagopalachariar as “Gan- 
dhi Astrologer” as he was also known and who was 
widely advertising his services. One day we just 
walked into his house at Tiruttani and wanted to 
know what methods he employed to give astrological 
predictions. He was surprised at what he called my 
“audacity” in questioning an elderly astrologer of his 
eminence as to the methods he employed for predict- 
ing events. In 1933 I had sent three questions to this 
- astrologer remitting one rupee. I had got answers for 
all the three questions. For the question whether I 
would be successful in the examination, his answer 
had been just one word “doubtful”. There was no 
astrological explanation whatsoever. Ever since I had 
been waiting for an opportunity to accost the astralo- 
ger. “How would you answer questions when they 
are put to you? I am myself a specialist in astrology 
and I want to know more from you.” He was tot 
pleased with my gestion, but said “on the basis of Arudha.” 
I told him about having sent questions to him two 
years ago and how without giving any astrological 
reasoning he said “yes” or “no”. I also explained to 


him — of course it was highly improper on ny part to 
have spoken in this vein to an elderly person—the 
importance of Shad balas, etc., and how mathemati- 
cally astrology was the basis for all predictions. Fi- 
nally I revealed to him that I was the grandson of Sh. 
Suryanarain Rao. We parted as friends. He was no 
doubt a great scholar.” 


After my book on “Nadi Astrology” was sent for 
publication I started collecting material on “Arudha” 
from various books. I collected two chapters No. 29 
and 30 from B.P.H.S. which are exhaustive and useful. 
They are the main basis of this book. Simultaneously, 
I started collecting verses dealing with ‘Arudha’ from 
Deva Keralam and Bhrugu Nadi. After my return 
from the USA (end of April 1999), I started writing the 
book seriously and, before the end of September 99, 
the present book was sent to the publishers for their 
processing. 


Thanks are again due to late Dr. B.V. Raman for 
writing above paragraph showing importance of 
“Arudha” which induced me to write a full-fledged 
treatise on the subject for the use of astrological frater- 
nity for further and deeper search. . 

America’s Visit: 

Since writing this book “Arudha System of Pre- 
diction”, I have had the opportunity of visiting 
America with my daughter Smt. Kailasben from No- 
vember 98 to April 99. The American Council of Vedic 
Astrology (ACVA) invited me to deliver four lectures 
at the sixth International Symposium held during 
November 12-17), 1998 at Sedona, Arizona (U.S.A.). 
As a Keynote speaker and as Guest of Honour, my 
four lectures broadly covered the following subjects:- 


1st lecture~“Astrology in India” (from 9 to 9.45 
A.M., 13-11-98). 


2nd lecture—“Introduction to Ashtakavarga sys- 


tem (from 11 a.m. to 12.30 p.m.-on 14-11-98). 


3rd lecture—“Nadis in Vedic Astrology” (from 
7.30 P.M. to 9.45 P.M. on 14-11-98). _ 


Ath lecture-The Navamsa in Vedic Astrology 
(from 10.00 A.M. to 5.00 P.M.) on 17/11/98 barring 
lunch hours. 


The American Council of Vedic Astrology — pre- 
sented to me “Lifetime Achievement Award” on 15- 
11-98 at 10.15 P.M. for my numerous contributions in 
the field of vedic astrology at this sixth International 
Symposium in presence of many astrologers from vari- 
ous countries. 


At that time, the Sun (Karaka of fame) was 
transiting through sign Tula, my Lagna Arudha Pada; 
the Moon in Kanya and Venus-Mercury in sign 
Vrischika creating a Shubha-Karatari yoga to Lagna 
Pada, Jupiter and Ketu having 9th house aspect on 
Lagna Pada from the 8th house and Saturn aspecting 
the same Pada from the 10th house and Rahu and 
Mars being posited in the 11th house from the Lagna 
‘Pada. 


A strange coincidence: when the great Raves 
was conferred on me, transits and aspects of planets 
with reference to Lagna Pada play an important role 
in prediction with reference to my horoscope. 


Literature on Arudha system : 


Venkatesh in Deva Keralam (3) has referred to 
some unique and novel uses of Arudha system at two 
places: 


(1) Deva Keralam (3) p 97 verse 3016:- He has 
made a novel use of Arudha from the Chandra lagna 
i.e. If the Arudha Pada of the 12th house reckoned 
from the Moon, is occupied by a malefic planet........... a 
Similarly, all the remaining Padas counted from the 
Moon be made use of. One can imagine reckoning in 


the same way from the Sun also- 


AMG, OFAC. ee eeeeeee ” For E.C. (1)-(2) and 
(3) Arudhas from the house/sign occupied by 
the Moon are counted in respective charts giving 
ML, M., M.......... M,, for Arudha Pada from the 


(2) Deva Keralam (3) P-49-Verse 2655:-He has 
considered the number of S.A.V. Bindus obtained by 
the Arudha Pada sign of the 9th house. Native will 
prosper and be famous from such number of years 
denoted by the number of bindus in Bhagya Pada. 
Similarly number of S.A.V. bindus obtained by the 
remaining Bhava Arudhas be made use of for predic- 
tive purposes promised by those Bhava Padas. 


Some novel uses of Lagna pada and the Padas of 
the remaining eleven houses as mentioned in Deva 
Keralm (Chandra Kala Nadi) and Bhrugu Nadi are 
given in this book for the study and further research. 
Venkatesh has made use of these techniques in about 
150 verses. So also Bhrgu Nadi has referred to Arudha 
system in about 130 verses. All these, about 280 verses 
have been rendered into English with copious notes 
and relevant charts wherever possible or necessary, 
and have been arranged systematically in various 
chapters. 


In the first volume no. XCIII (with original San- 
skrit text) of Deva Keralam, Shri T.S. Ranganath Sharma 
writes in introduction (p. xii) that the present text of 
Achyuta comprising of about 9152 verses, is only one 
fourth (%) of the original Granthas treating all 150 
Nadiamsas. So also Bhrugu Nadi Jyotisham-original 
palmleaf manuscript Granth script Adyar Library, 
Chennai, shelf No. 21-No. 9, the present volume con- 
taining about 8250 verses in Sanskrit, is one of such 4 
volumes. If I had the honour of going through about 
36,000 verses of Deva Keralam and about 32,000 verses 
of Bhrugu Nadi, at least 1000/- (one thousand) verses 


dealing with ‘Arudha system’ would ‘have been col- 
lected. One has to be satisfied with about 280 Verses 
only, so far collected. 


The general rule and its exceptions given for ° 
calculating Arudha Padas in Chapter I are corrobo- 
rated by horoscopes given from Deva Keralam and - 
Bhrugu Nadi Texts, in various chapters. Readers can 
well go through those charts illustrated from both 
Nadis and be satisfied with veracity of the rules given 
by Parasara (B.P.H.S. chap. 29vs-4-5). 


A careful study of this book would not fail to tell 
the research student that many verses collected from 
Deva Keralam and Bhrugu Nadis on utility of Bhava 
and Graha Arudhas may not be located elsewhere in 
the standard texts. 


The Arudha pada system is a peculiar one in 
which degrees of planets, Vargas of signs, mathemati- 
cal calculations etc..... are not considered. Only the 
natal chart is enough. The predictions promised by 
Lagna Arudha, Bhava Arudha and Graha Arudha take 
place during the currency of periods of those planets 
in their dasas. 


This predictive system is freely used in Nadi 
texts, as against its absence in standard texts. 


I have tried my best to give due exposition to the 
original principles and believe that I have succeeded 
to some extent in throwing illuminating light on 
Arudha system. Yet; there may be some shortcomings 
out of my ignorance, in not correctly extracting the 
true meaning of Sanskrit (terms) verses into English. 
In such an event, I would crave the indulgence of the 
learned and broad-minded readers to forgive me on 
such count of failures or misrepresentation. 


Any suggestions or comments regarding neces- 
sary additions or improvements to be made in this 
work shall be gladly received and considered for 


future editions. (God willing!!!). 


In conclusion, J sincerely wish that this valuable 
work should be accorded a warm welcome by all 
students, Indian as well as foreign, and I pray that the 
Divine Power that inspired me to undertake this project 
may grant further opportunities to explore other prom- 
ising fields of astrological research. 


A Synopsis of Contents: 


Chap. I Introduction of the subject, Defini- 

tion of Arudha, how to prepare 

Arudha padas of 12 houses from the 

Lagna as well as from the Moon, 

General Rule and its three exceptions, 

and three sample horoscopes to un- 

derstand the application of various 
principles. 


Chap. II Arudha Pada Chapter of B.P.H.S. and 
Adhyaya I Pada 3 (Jaimini Sutra by 
Prof. K.V. Abhyankar). 


Chap. III Lagna Pada-Verses collected from 
Deva Keralam (Chandra Kala Nadi) 
_ and Bhrugu Nadi-together with their 
translations, notes and charts wher- 

ever possible. 


Chap. IV Upa Pada Kundali-Chap. 30 of 
B.P.H.S.; Upa-Pada Charts of exam- 
ple horoscopes and Adhyaya I Pada 
4 from Prof. K.V. Abhyankar's book. 


Chap. V Graha-Arudha-source only 2 verses 
from B.P. H.S. explained in detail; 
how to find Graha Arudha Padas; 
some 20 verses collected from two 
Nadis, and explained in detail with 


the help of 8 charts given in these 
Nadis. 


Chap. VI to X. About 280 verses (150 from 
Deva Keralam and 130 from Bhrugu 
Nadi) translated with copious notes 
and charts wherever possible for— 
Putra Pada; Shatru Pada; Dara Pada; 
Bhagya Pada; Vikrama Pada, Matru 
Pada; Karma Pada and Vyaya Pada. 


I humbly appreciate the interest shown by Shri 
Saurabh Sagar in bringing out this book attractively 
on good write paper and nice binding. 


I wish to express my gratitude to Shri Hariprasad 
S. Bhatt (Mumbai) for working out examples and a 
ing me in the writing of this book. 


I shall consider my labour amply rewarded if this 
book proves helpful to understand the principles of 
Arudha Pada System of Astrology. 


September 1999 C.S. Patel 
29-D; III Floor, 

M.G. Road, Gandhi Market, 

Ghatkopar (E), 

Mumbai-400077. 


Abreviations used: 


B.P.HLS. —  Brihat Parasasa Hora Sastra 

S.AV. — Samudaya-Ashtakavarga 

D.K. - Deva Keralam (Chandra Kala Nadi) 
BG. — Bhrugu Nadi 

E.C.1 — Example chart No. 1 

E.C.2 — Example chart No. 2 


E.C.3 = Example chart No. 3 


Chapter I 


Introduction 


Maharshi Jaimini has extensively dealt with the 
Arudha Pada system of astrology. Though sage 
Parasara has originally sown the seeds in B.P.H.S. 
(chapters 29 and 30), later on Jaimini delved deep and 
located many pearls out of his wisdom and intuition. 
Thus the system has become to be known by the 
name of Jaimini astrology rather than Parasara. 


One thing can be said without the fear of 
contradiction that after Parasara Hora down to Jataka 
Tatwa, none of the authors of standard texts had 
touched this subject of Arudha system except the 
following authors: 


(1) "Hora-Sara" -Chap. IV (Verses 23-24-25-2614); 
Chap. XXVII (Verses 22-23-24-25); 
(2) "Prasna Marg" Chap. VIII and XVI (few verses); 


Both these authors have considered "Arudha 
Lagna" i.e. the sign rising at the time of query. They 
have used Arudha for Prasna only. 


(3) "Uttarakalamrita" -Chap. IV. verses 34 to 40. 
The author has treated the subject of Arudha Pada 
and "Upapada" -in the real sense of the terms, in an 
elementary way i.e. only in 7 verses. 


From B.P.H.S. Vol. I. 


2 Introduction 


array wart Geri a we fea 
aetna ad sated wrenefefiii 


“O Brahmin, I shall now tell you about the Pada’ 
(or Arudhas) for Bhavas and Planets as well as, laid 
down by earlier great sages.” 


aA safest wet fsa: HAMM 
aaetafadl Uh aaa TeqeA2I 


'”The Pada of the ascendant will correspond to 
the sign arrived at by counting as many signs 
from the ascendant lord as he is ahead from the as- 
cendant.” 


easy ara ata ve fea 
aqrage aA ge Awa fag 2113 11 


“Similarly Padas for other houses be known 
through their lords. The word “Pada” denotes exclu- 
sively the Pada for the ascendant (or Lagna Pada).” 


Notes: The word Arudha (‘31&¢') is defined 
(V.S. Apte’s dictionary) as mounted, ascended or seated 
on. It means a driver in charge of the vehicle ” Arudha.” 
This system is the same as “Wald Wad —meaning: 
The lord of a bhava will correspond to the sign ( S164) © 
arrived at by counting so many signs from the house 
lord as he is away from the house. In Jaimini 
for Lagna, it is known as “the Lagna Arudha Pada”. 
Similarly the Arudha Padas for the remaining eleven 
houses be found out as enunciated in this chapter. 
Arudha Lagna is not confined to Jaimini system of 
astrology alone, but it is extensively used even in 
Parasari system. 


Prof.: K.V. Abhyankar writes in his book. “The 
Upadesa Sutra of Jaimini-1951” page 51 as under:- 


’ Arudha System of Prediction 3 


“Jaimini has paid a special attention to the aspect 
of planets-especially to the way in which they aspect 
their own sign. Apparently, there was a peculiar belief 
that the reflection was as good as the original, the 
reflecting medium being furnished by a planet as in 
the case of the Pada or the Upapada, or by a sign, as © 
in the case of “Bahya Rasi.” The old astrologers at the 
time of Jaimini believed that along with the sign he 
ruled, a planet aspected, with the same attention,: 
another sign which had the same angle of incidence 
as the sign ruled by him had with the sign in which 
he was placed. In other words, a sign had its reflec- 
tion in its ruler planet (mirror), and the sign corre- 
sponding to: the reflection was as powerful as the 
original one. The sign, agreeing with or correspond- 
ing to the reflection was called pada or ‘foot’ by Jaimini 
and his colleague astrologers. The Pada of the As- 
cendant or Lagna pada is taken by Jaimini as the basis 
in determining the monetory prospects of an 
individual. The seventh and the twelfth houses from 
the Pada give special.results by means of planets 
present therein. The remaining houses give results 
just in the way in which houses from the sign occupied 
by the Significatory Planet do.” 


In calculating the Arudhas for the various houses 
one has to proceed as under to understand the 12 
Arudhas: 


1 Lagna Pada (simply Pada) Arudha - the first house; AL 
2 Dhana (Vitta) Pada Arudha - the 2nd house; A2 

3 Vikrama (Bhratru) Pada Arudha - the 3rd house; A3 
4 Matru (Sukha) Pada Arudha - the 4th house; A4 

5 Putra (Mantra) Pada Arudha - the 5th house; A5 

6 Roga (Satru) Pada Arudha - the 6th house; A6 

7 Dara (Kalatra) Pada Arudha - the 7th house; A7 

8 Mrutyu (Marana) Pada Arudha - the 8th house; A8 


4 Introduction 


9 Pitru (Bhagya) Pada Arudha - the 9th house; A9 
10 Karma Pada Arudha - the 10th house; A10 
11 Labha Pada Arudha - the 11th house; A11 
12 Vyaya Pada Arudha - the 12th house; A12 


In calculating the Arudha pada for a house note 
the number of signs its lord has moved away from 
that particular sign. Count so many signs from that 
lord in question. The sign so arrived will be the 
Arudha for the house (bhava) under consideration 
(general rule). 


Similarly Arudhas from the sign occupied by the 
Moon and remaining signs from the Moon be enunci- 
ated as under:- 

1 The Moon's Arudha Pada; Arudha of the Moon sign ML 

2 Dhana (Vitta) Pada; Arudha of the 2nd house; M2 

3 Vikrama (Bhratru) Pada; Arudha of the 3rd house; M3 

4 Matru (Sukha) Pada; Arudha of the 4th house; M4 

5 Putra (Mantra) Pada; Arudha of the 5th house; M5 

6 Roga (Satru) Pada; Arudha of the 6th house; M6 

7 Dara (Kalatra) Pada; Arudha of the 7th house; M7 

8 Mrutya (Marana) Pada; Arudha of the 8th house; M8 

9 Pitru (Bhagya) Pada; Arudha of the 9th house; M9 

10 Karma Pada; Arudha of the 10th house; M10 

11 Labha Pada; Arudha of the 11th house; M11 

12 Vyaya Pada; Arudha of the 12th house; M12 
een aa ta ue sfaqefa 

qe vet fads net ef HATA EAI 

am qatead wat qa vw saa 

wat a fer ae fade <e FeANsil 


Arudha System of Prediction 5 
Special Exceptions:- 


“The same house as the 7th from it does not | 
become its Pada. When the Pada falls in the same 
- house, the 10th in question therefrom be treated as its 
Pada. Similarly when the 7th becomes the Pada of a 
house, the 4th from the original house (i.e. in the 10th 
from the 7th house) be treated as its Pada. If the ruler 
of a bhava be in the 4th from the bhava, then the very 
house occupied be noted as its Pada.” 


Notes:-In these two veses, exceptions to the geneal 
rule in calculating Arudhas are outlined. These are:- 


Rule (1):- If the lord of a house is in that very 
house then. the Pada for the time being falls in that 
house itself. In that case, as per exceptions, one has to 
count ten. signs from it, to get the actual Pada. 


For. example refer chart E.C. (2): Sign Tula is in 
the 5th bhava having its lord Venus herein, with the 
Pada having fallen in Tula itself. Instead of treating 
Tula as the Arudha for the 5th house, count 10th sign 
from Tula and reach Kataka. Thus Kataka is (A5 in the 
2nd house) the Pada for Venus having been in 
Tula. 


Ref Chart E.C. (3):-Sign Kataka is in the 9th bhava 
having its lord the Moon therein, with the Pada hav- 
ing fallen in Kataka itself. Instead of treating Kataka 
as the Arudha of the 9th house, count 10 signs from 
Kataka and reach Mesha. Thus Mesha (A9) in the 6th 
house, is the Pada for the Moon having been in Kataka. 


Rule (2):-If the ‘lord of a bhava is in the 7th, 
opposite house, then for the time being the 7th from 
it becomes Arudha. Instead of treating the 7th house 
as Arudha Pada, we have to count 10 signs from the 
said 7th house which will indicate the 4th house from 
the original bhava in question as Arudha. 


6 Introduction 


Ref. Chart E.C. (1):- Sign Mithuna is in the 12th 
house having Mercury in the 7th therefrom i.e. in 
Dhanus. Couting 4 signs from Mithuna, the original 
bhava, it is Kanya. A,, is in the 3rd house. 


E.C. (2): (a) Sign Makara is in the 8th house hav- 
ing Saturn in the 2nd house. Counting 4 signs from 
Makara, the original bhava, it in Mesha A,-is the 11th 
house. 


(b) Since Meena in the 10th house, having Jupiter 
‘is the 4th house, counting 4 signs from the original 
bhava, it is sign Mithuna A,, in the Lagna. 


Rule (3):- If the lord of a bhava is in the 4th from 
the bhava, no counting is required. The house occu- 
pied by the lord itself . e. the 4th from the bhava) is 
the Arudha. 


Ref. Chart E.C. (1):- 


(a) Kataka as ascendant having the Moon in the 
4th sign in Tula, gets Tula itself as Arudha Lagna 
(AL). 


(b) Kanya, the 3rd house, having Mercury in the 
4th sign in Dhanus gets Dhanus itself as Arudha for 
the 3rd house (A,). 


(c) Tula the 4th house having Venus in the 4th 
sign is Makara gets Makara itself as Arudha for the 
4th house (A4) . 


E.C. (2) :- 


(a) Simha, the 3rd house, having ‘the Sun. in 
Vrischika gets Vrischika itself a Arudha for the 3rd 
house (A,). 


(b) Mesha, the 11th house, having Mars in Kataka 
gets Kataka itself as Arudha for the 11th house 


(A,,). 


Arudha System of Prediction 7 


To illustrate fully the principles stated in the 
book, it is found necessary to, consider three nativities 
as“under:- 


(1) Example Chart 1 [E.C. (1)]:- 
-(2) Example Chart 2 [E.C. (2)]:- 
and (3) Example Chart 3 [E.C. (3)]:- 
‘ Example Chart 1 {E.C. (1)]:- 
Date of birth-31st December 1915'at 7h-44m P.M. (LS.T.) 
23° N 02' and 72°E37', Ayanamsa 22°-00-07. 


Planetary positions:- 


The Sun 8-16-10' = =——- Venus 9-13°-14' 
‘The Moon 6-12°-13' Saturn 2-20°-42! (R,) 
Mars 4-7°-9! Rahu 9-17°-6' 
Mercury 8-25°-13' ——— Ketu 3-17°-6' 
Jupiter 10-29°-29' Ascendant 3-8°-53' 
Rasi Chart (Lagna) 


Wa? 


XOX 


Jupiter-(Atmakaraka) The Chief-Significatory planet. 
Navamsa-Mithuna-Karakamsa. 


8 Introduction 


Navamsa 
VENUS RAHU 
SAT: MARS 
JUPT. 


SRE 


Rasi Chart (Arudha) 


RAS1 CHART 
ARUDA 


MOON'S 
CHART 
ARUDHA 


Arudha System of Prediction 9 


S.A.V. Bindus 


Calculation of Padas of 12 houses : 


(1) 


(2) 


(3) 


@ 


(5) 


(6) 


The lord of the Lagna.the Moon is in the 4th 
house in sign Tula (4 signs away). Tula becomes 
Arudha Lagna. Put AL, in sign Tula (Rule 3). 


The second Jord the Sun in the 6th house in sign 
Dhanus-5 signs away from Dhanus, it is Mesha in 
the 10th house. Put A2 in sign Mesha eee 
rule). 


The third lord Mercury is in the 6th house in sign 
Dhanus (4 signs away). Dhanus becomes Arudha 
Pada for the 3rd house. Put A3 in sign Dhanus. 
(Rule 3). 

The fourth lord Venus is in the 7th house in 
sign Makara. (4 signs away). Makara becomes 
Arudha for the 4th house. Put A4 in sign Makara 
(Rule 3). 


The fifth lord Mars is in the 2nd house-in sign 
Simha, 10 signs away from Vrischika. Count 10 


' signs from Simha it is Vrishabha in the 11th house. 


Put AS in sign Vrishabha (general rule). 
The sixth house lord Jupiter is in the 8th house 


10 In troduction 


sign Kumbha-3signs away from Dhanus. Count 3 
signs from Kumbha, it is Mesha in the 10th house. 
Put A6é in sign Mesha. (General rule). 


(7) The seventh lord Saturn is in the 12th house 
in sign Mithuna—6 signs away from Makara. 
Count 6 signs from Mithuna, it is Vrischika in 
the 5th house. Put A7 in sign Vrischika (general 
rule). 


(8) The 8th lord Saturn is in the 12th house in sign 
Mithuna-5 signs away from Kumbha. Count 5 
signs from Mithuna, it is Tula in the 4th house. 
Put A8 in sign Tula. 


(9) The ninth lord Jupiter is in the 8th house in sign 
Kumbha-12 signs away from Meena. Count 12 
signs from Kumbha, it is Makara in the 7th house. 
Put A9 in sign Makara. 


(10) The tenth lord Mars is in the 2nd house sign 

' Simha-5 signs away from Mesha. Count 5 signs 
from Simha, it is Dhanus in the 6th house. Put 
A10 in sign Dhanus. (General rule). 


(11) The 11th lord Venus is in the 7th house in sign 
Makara-9 signs away from Vrishabha. Count 9 
signs from Makara, it is Kanya in the 3rd house. 
Put A11 in sign Kanya (general rule). 


(12) The 12th lord Mercury is in the 6th house in 
sign Dhanus-7 signs away. Count 4 signs from 
Mithuna, the original bhava, it is sign Kanya 
in the 3rd house. Put Al12 in sign Kanya (2nd 
rule). 


Example Chart 2 (E.C. (2)):- 
Date of birth 19th November 1945 at 9h-30m. P.M. 


Arudha System of Prediction 1] 


(LS.T.) 23° N 02! and 72° E 37"; Ayanamsa 23°-06'-03". 


Planetary Positions:- 


The Sun 7-3°-52' Venus 6-16°-15' 
The Moon 1-4°-20' Saturn 3-1°-38' 
Mars 3-8°-40' _ Rahu 2-8°-37' 
Mercury 7-26°-07' Ketu 8-8°-37' 
Jupiter 5-25°-01' Ascendant 2-26°-10' 
(Lagna) 
Rasi Chart 


T= 


SAT 
MARS 
RASI CHART bg 


8 
5 SUN VENUS 
ro pew | are |e | | 


Mercury -Atma Karaka (the Chief Significatory 
planet) Navamsa Kumbha-Karakamsa 


MERC 
MOON 
VENUS 


XFS 
XK 


NAVAMSA 


ES 
=a ie 


12 _ Introduction 


Rasi Chart (Arudha) 


RASI CHART 
ARUDHA 


S.A.V. Bindus 


WA 


’ BINDUS 


33 


25 
Rre 


Arudha System of Prediction 13 


Example Chart 3 (E.C. (3)):- 

Date of birth 17th July 1931 at 3-40". P.M. (. ST.) 
22°-N 37' and 71° E 28'; Ayanamsa 22°-54'-03", 
Planetary Positions:- 


The Sun 3-00°-51! Venus 2-16°-36' 

The Moon 3-26°-41' Saturn 8-26°-45' 

Mars 4-27°-53' Rahu 11-16°-15' R,, 

Mercury 3-19°-13' Ketu 5-16°-15'. 

Jupiter 3-7°-8' Ascendant 7-8°-34' 
-Rasi Chart (Lagna) 


XX 
XOX 


Mars-(Atma Karaka). The Chief significatory planet 
Navamsa-Dhanus-Karkamsa 
Navamsa 


MENUS SUN | 
NAVAMSA 
9 


ex 


14 Introduction 


Rasi Chart (Arudha) 


RAS] CHART 
ARUDHA 


Moon's Chart (Arudha) 


XOX 


S.A.V. Binidus 


LN\A\ 


BINDUS 


22 


p= LA] fe | 


Chapter IT 
Arudha Pada 


sass Tenia we feaqga fea 
TRG LUA wees aatfea igi 
Tar wid aie GaaArad:| 
qarnea arto eafa: wads=q2T19 11 


8- 9; Pada and Finance:- 


“O Brahmin! 1 now tell you of. some effects of 
planets based of Pada. If the 11th from Lagna Pada is 
occupied or aspected by a planet, the native will be 
happy and‘rich; wealth will come through virtuous 
means if a benefic is related as above. A malefic will . 
confer wealth through questionable means.” 


fats wea a4 wreaftefe teh 

ae Wad WA ae A YSrTAINIONI 
TMS UA Wa AH Tet: 

TH TT We a GMa A Bea 111 


10-11 “If there be both a benefic and a malefic, it 
will be through both means. If the planet in question 
(i.e. the one so related to the 11th from Lagna Pada) 
be in exaltation, or in own sign etc. there will be 
plenty of gain. If all the planets aspect the 11 house 
from Lagna Pada, the native born surely becomes a 
king or equal to a king.” 


16 Arudha Pada 

Teas wag a aaa waft 

Say Gal at stad ETT 

12: "O excellént of flie Brahmins, if the 12th from 
Lagna Pada is unaspected, as the 11th from Lagna 


Pada is being-aspected by a planet then the gain will 
be uninterrupted.” 


Teel arrageed. Tarcmrast fest | 
ama aly date aateaarry 3i 


amet fay wareqearerte | 
yA wat ge waa aT 4 I 
wea aPacd feetgaraey | 
sarang Sq Gel greet Aa was isi 


13-15: “O Brahmin! the quantum of gains will cor- 
respond to the number of planets ‘in or aspecting the 
11th from Lagna Pada. If there is Argala for the said 
11th, there will be more gains while a benefic Argala 
will bring still more gains. If the said benefic causing 
Argala be in his exaltation, the gains will be still 
higher. If the said 11th is aspected by a benefic from 
the ascendant, the 9th etc. gains will increase in the 
ascending order. In all these cases, the 12th from Pada 
be simultaneously free from malefic association.” 


Notes:- From the Arudha ascendant, the 11th house 
is important in deciding the financial gains to be 
enjoyed by the native. Simultaneously the 12th from 
Arudha Lagna should be free from malefic relation- 
ship. If the planet related to the 11th from Lagna 
Arudha is stronger than the one related to the 12th 
from Lagna-Arudha, even then, there will be gains. If 
more planets are well related to the 11th, gains will be 
still more. 


Artudha System of Prediction 17 


For Argala, Ref. Chap 31 of B.P.H.S. 


A benefic placed in the ascendant aspecting the 
11th from Arudha Lagna will be still beneficial. If 
aspect is from the 9th from Lagna it will confer much 
more gains. The 11th from Arudha A,, aspected by a 
favourable planet will also confer abundant gains. 


E.C. (1) Arudha pada is sign Tula the 11th house 
from it is sign Simha which is occupied by Mars and 
aspected by Saturn and Jupiter. The native had regu- 
lar income from service and had some income from 
some risky and hazardous ventures. 


E.C. (2) Arudha pada is sign Mesha. The 11th from 
it is sign Kumbha aspected by Mars only. His income 
is from brokerage in gold business only. 


E.C. (3) Arudha Pada is sign Vrishabha. the 11th 
from it is sign Meena aspected by Mars and Jupiter, 
the native has regular income from service and has 
some income from other sources. 


yer ora fam yard fart | 

Sama Ta AS . FANSTTISARL, ART 1161 

Wwe Yar BAM wea | 

fas fase areada arsishe art 71 

16-17: Pada and financial Losses :- (upto Verses 
21):- 

“Tf the 12th from Lagna Pada is aspected by or 
conjunct with both benefics and malefics, there will 
be abundant earnings but plenty of expenses, benefic 
will cause through fair means, malefics through un- 


fair means and mixed planets through both fair and 
unfair means.” 


18 Arudha Pada 


WTRS a YRUTETT yA 

Tye Sal araasea ARTA 8 HI 

18: “If the 12th from Lagna Pada: is conjunct the 
Sun, Venus and Rahu, there will be loss of wealth 
through the King. The Moon aspecting (the said trio — 
in the said house) will specifically cause more such 
losses.” 


Tees = SA yeaa fend 
wey coat Pree WE Heels TA: INI 


19: “If Mercury is in the 12th from the Lagna Pada 
and be with or aspected by benefic similarly there . 


will be expenses through paternal relatives. A malefic ~ 


so related to the said Mercury will cause loss of 
wealth through disputes.” 


Ta St Grad afer aaa: | 
aU Sa area: ela fee 112011 
20: “Brahmin, if Jupiter’ is in the 12th from Lagna 


Pada, aspected by other planets, the expenses will be 
through taxes and on one's own.” 


FSR FR AR MIG aad | 
srareferd far agente wera: 11211 . 
21: “O Brahmin, if Saturn is in the 12th from Lagna 


Pada along with Mars and is aspected by other plan- 
ets, the expenses will be through one's coborns.” 


ae ERM tat A arm: Hf Fam 
aaa os dt a asrarret 112211 


22: “Whatever sources of expenses are indicated 
above with reference to the 12th from Lagna Pada, 


Arudha System of Prediction 19 


gains through similar sources will occur if the 11th 
house so features with reference to Lagna Pada.” 


STeeM AAA wear afeera: fra 
aframnad aa: fake Weds ani23ii 
23: The 7th house from Pada (up to 27):- 


“If Rahu or Ketu is placed in the 7th from Lagna 
Pada, the native will be troubled by stomach disor- 
ders or by fire.” 


ASE AT Aq: sean 
met yataet a qeferssit waats112411 


24: “ Should there be Ketu in the 7th from Lagna _ 
Pada and be with aspect to or be conjunct another 
malefic the native will be adventurous, will have pre- 
maturely grey hair and big male organ.” 


TE WA wR Wemshna 
aa gaateisfe wedtar werd SA:112511 


25: “Should one, two or all the three of Jupiter 
Venus and the Moon be in the 7th from Lagna Pada, 
the native will be very wealthy.” 


Notes:- In E.C. (2) there is Venus in Tula in the 7th 
from Lagna Pada. 


Bae VTA Ge: YMaseayy: ye 
am iste wet aciftatedt RK: 11261! 


26: “ Whether a benefic or malefic if exalted in the 
7th from Lagna Pada, the native will be affluent and 
be famous.” 


20 Arudha Pada 


4 aT: Sad wa Veleq Heat Fat 
Frarata ad apm fadtasta eer fe2711 
27: “O Brahmin, these yogas as narrated by me 


with reference to the 7th from Lagna Pada be also 
considered from the 2nd of Lagna Pada.” 


Notes: E.C. (2) There is exalted Moon in the 2nd 
from Lagna Pada. 


E.C. (3) There is Venus in the 2nd from Lagna 
Pada. 


sere Ueta at set ar ga wa at 
wal set war: faa fee Sfean27n 
28: “Any one of Mercury, Jupiter or Venus be ex- 


. alted in the 2nd from Lagna pada and be with strength 
will make the subject rich.” 


a area we aa amaq afadt va 
a abr aremniste faster ateratstat:1129 11 
29; “The yogas so far stated by me with reference 


to Lagna Pada,be similarly evaluated from Karakamsa 
as well.” 


Notes:- Karakamsa is the Navamsa occupied by 
Atmakaraka. For more information about Karakamsa, 
see chap29 of B.P.HLS. atmiakarake etc. are discussed 
in chap 32 of B.P.H.S. 

sneer frat ae adeenfira saa 

wit afe a a eam waa a araiol 


30: General upto verse 37:- 
“Tf Mercury is in the 2nd from Arudha Lagna, the 


Arudha System of Prediction 21 


native will lord over the whole country and be know- 
ing everything. Venus in the 2nd from Lagna Pada 
will make one a poet or a speaker.” 

Notes: Mere position of Mercury in the 2nd from 
the Lagna Pada to have such result is not enough. 
Mercury must be either exalted or in Mooltrikona 
sign. 

ae aang fer are foal 

wamaee ashe TaTSATAII 1A 

simira wad Wa oer. faweniaar, ad 

SSRN ALU MT SASS AA11321 


31-32:- “O Brahmin! if the Dara Pada (i.e. the Pada 
of the 7th house-A7) falls in an angle or in trine 
counted from the Lagna Pada, or if the Lagna Pada 
and Dara Pada (A7) both have strong planets, the 
native will be rich and famous in his country. If Dara 
Pada falls in 6th, 8th or 12th from the Lagna Pada, the 
native will be poor.” 


wae afy ae qe far 
gad: aie: Ge: TTA AGGIE : 1133 U1 


33: “If the Lagna Pada and the 7th therefrom or an 
angle/a trine/or an Upachaya therefrom be occupied 
by a strong planet, there will be happiness between 
the husband and wife.” 


TR UR aa SS a a afer 

waa wee fra Att Aera1B411 

34: “If the Lagna Pada and Dara Pada are mutually 
angular or trinal, there will be amity between the 


couple; if these be in mutually 6th/8th/12th, doubt- 
lessly mutual enmity will crop up.” 


22 Arudha Pada 


wa ama fag wafers feed 
faafas fastest faraarn351 


35: “O Brahmin, similarly mutual relationship or 
gain or loss through son etc. be known by acleverman | 
based on Lagna Pada and the relative position of 
coresponding Bhava Pada (i.e. 5th house Pada A5).” 


cranes fam fra: aera afal 
Rearmaiferary at ar ue aafergs113611 


36: “If the Lagna Pada and Dara Pada are mutu- 
ally angular or 3rd and 11th, or trinal, the native will 
be a king ruling the earth.” 


‘Notes:- There must be some more conditions to 
have these results, E.C. 2 and E.C. 3 both have Lagna 
Pada and Dara Pada in 3rd/11th. Both are normal 
citizens. They are neither kings nor live like kings 
(luxurious life). These two signs must be occupied by 
strong planets or must be associeted with more than 
32 Bindus in S.A.V. 


wa warera wafered fest 
Tas AAA SIRE WH 371137111 


37: “O Brahmin, similar deductions be made for 
the native with reference to mutual positions of Lagna 
Pada and Dhana Pada.(A2).” 


Chapter 30. B.P.HLS. 


wire. freamett vere. arafaarerati 
Rss aa shee TlaH3111 


Coborn from Lagna Pada 
31: Rahu and Saturn in the 3rd/11th from Lagna 


Arudha System of Prediction 23 


Pada will destroy the coborn of the native—in the 
11th elder brothers (sisters) and in the 3rd younger 
ones.” 


at wa ate at oaferer al 
am asfi w eal teradgtfadi32i 


32: “If Venus is in the 3rd/11th from the Lagna 
Pada, there would have been an abortion to _ 
mother earlier, same is the effect if Venus is in or, 
aspects the 8th from natal assendant or from Lagna 
Pada.” 


ala ee ener 
qdaenraalaa! RTq TST: 1133 11 
Fe MMT TAT: WaT: | 
weandad 32 qdtiarest fes1113411 
arrearage feral 

weal sat faa! oma ot galaT 113511 
TI TEAR: Tae, AAPA GTRT:| 
at ant sat age afriRg@A6l 


33-36: “ These are the effects O Brahmin, as stated 
by venerable sages for the 3rd and the 11th from 
Lagna Pada. Should the Moon, Jupiter, Mercury and 
Mars be in the 3rd/11th from Lagna Pada, there will 
be many valourous coborns. Should Saturn and Mars 
be in the 3rd/11th from Lagna Pada or lend aspects 
there to younger and elder coborn will respecively be 
destroyed. If Saturn is alone in one of the said houses 
the native will be spared while the coborn will die. 
Ketu in the 3rd/11th will give abundant happiness 
from one's sisters.” 


24 Arudha Pada 


STS TSI WIA BNafsid! 
yyesented Ok safe wae113711 


37: “Other matters from Lagna Pada:- 


“If the 6th from Lagna Pada is occupied by a 
malefic and is bereft of conjunation/aspect of a ben- 
efic, the native will be a thief.” 


aad get ea Afehagafed 
aaa Faq Tet aewragqa fest! 13811 


38.” If Rahu is in the 7th/12th from Lagna Pada or 
aspect one of the said houses, the native will be en- 
dowed with spiritual knowledge and be very fortu- 
nate.” 


sree afte det adem waa 
Wate eal afaatet a sTrfe1139 1 


39: “If Mercury is in the Lagna Pada, the native 
will lord over whole -country while Jupiter will make 
him a knower. of all things. Venus in this context 
denotes a poet/speaker.” 


From “The Upadesha Sutra of Jaimini” by Prof. 
K.V. Abhyankar (1951) following salient points are 
noteworthy. 


Adhyaya 1-Pada 3: 
1. Now begins the consideration of Pada Lagna. 


2. If the eleventh from the Pada Lagna has one or 
more planets, or if it is aspected by one or more 
planets, the person becomes wealthy. 


3. If all these planets are benefic, his acquisition is 
by good means. 


15. 


Arudha System of Prediction 25 


If the planets are malefic, his acquisition is by 
ignoble means. , 


Specially good or bad results occur if the planets 
be in their exaltation or in their own houses etc. 


The person becomes spendthrift if the twelfth 
from the Pada has one or more planets or if it is 
aspected by one or more planets. 


If the Sun, Rahu and/or Venus be in the twelfth, 
the expenses are die to King’s demands, taxes 
fines. etc. 


If there is an aspect of\the Moon in addition, the 
above occurs definitely 


If there is Mercury in the twelth, the expenses 


arise due to fines etc levied by caste people or 
due to quarrels. 


If there is Jupiter in the 12th, the expense arises 
from taxes levied by the king. 


. If there be. Mars and/or Saturn the expenses are 


due to brothers and the like. 


The causes of expenses given above become, in 
fact the sources of income in. case those planets 
are in the eleventh house from the Pada. 


If there is Rahu or Ketu in the 7th from the Pada, 
the person suffers from diseases of the stomach. 


If there is Ketu in the second house from the 
Pada Lagna, there occur signs of old age prema- 
turely. . 


If there is the Moon, Venus and/or Jupiter (in the 
2nd house from the Pada) the person becomes 
rich. 


26 


16. 


17. 


18. 


19. 
20. 


21. 


22. 


23. 


24, 


25. 


Arudha Pada 


If there is any other planet in exaltation there, the 
same is the result. 


Other results should be understood on general 
lines as in the case of various planets stationed at 
different distances from the Chief Significator. 


If the Pada of the 7th house from the Ascendant 
be in a square (1, 4, 7, 10) or in a trine (1-5-9) to 
the Ascendant, the person becomes wealthy. 


If it be elsewhere (i.e. in 2, 3, 6, 8, 11 or 12 house), 
the person becomes poor. 


If the Pada of the 7th be in a Kendra or Trikona 
or Upachaya (3, 6, 10, 11) from the Ascendant, the 
husband and the wife should remain friendly. 


If it be in 7th or in the 12th or in the 8th or in the 
6th from the Ascendant, they should dislike each 
other. 


If in the Pada of the Lagna or the 7th from it, 
there is an unopposed association of planets, the 
person becomes lucky. 


If the association be made up of benefic planets, 
he gets ample wealth. 


_If one and the same planet is aspecting the Janma 


Lagna, the Hora Lagna and also the Ghatika 
Lagna, the person becomes a king (i.e. extremely © 
lucky). 


So also, if the first or the seventh house in Rasi 
Chart, Navamsa Chart and Drekkana Chart, at the 
time of birth, be aspected by one and the same 
planet, the person has the good luck of attaining 
Royal Glory. 


26. 


27. 


28. 


29. 


30. 


31. 


32. 


Arudha System of Prediction 27 


If there be the deficiency of aspect in respect of 
one of the three charts (mentioned above), the 
Royal Glory is less in proportion. 


The same consideration should be had in respect 
of the subdivisions and Drekkana horoscopes. 


If Venus and the Moon are aspecting each other 
or if both are in the third from the Ascendant, the 
person possesses carriages/vehicles. 


If Mars, Venus and Ketu aspect each other, the 
person holds sacrificial sessions or holds royal 
canopy. 


If there are benefic planets in the second, the 
fourth, the fifth and the eighth houses from the 
one occupied by the Chief Significatory planet, 
all together in one of those places or in each 
place, the person gets the position of a king. 


The same is the good luck if there are malefic 
planets in the third and the sixth houses (from 
the one occupied by the chief significatory planet). 


The same (i.e. Royal Glory) is attained if there are 


- malefic planets in the third and the sixth houses 


from that occupied by the lord of the Ascendant 


' or the lord of the seventh. 


33. 


34. 


If there is an equal number of planets of any 
kind—malefic or benefic—in the third and the 
sixth on the one hand, or in the second, fourth 
etc... on the other, either from the lord of the 
Ascendant or from the lord of the seventh there i is 
a happy prosperous life. 


Poverty is the result in the reverse cases, namely, 


28 


35. 


36. 


Arudha Pada 


if there are malefic planets in the second, fourth, 
fifth and eighth places or benefic planets in the 
third and the sixth places from. the lord of the 
Ascendant or from the lord of the seventh. 


If there is Jupiter, Venus or the Moon, in the fifth 
from the lord of the Ascendant or from the Jord of 
the seventh the persons become high government 
officials. 


If there is a malefic planet in the third or the sixth 


: house from the lord of the Ascendant or from the 


37, 


38. 


39. 


40. 


41. 


lord of the seventh, the man becomes a general of 
the army. 


If the Chief Significatory planet and/or the As- 
cendant be aspected by a planet in the third or 
the sixth house (from the chief significatory planet 
or the Ascendant) or by the lord of the third or 
the sixth house or by the lord of the fifth house, 
the men become possessed of wisdom. ' 


The Chief significatory planet and / or the Ascend- 
ant be aspected by the lord of the, fourth, the 
persons become happy. 


If the chief significatory planet and/or the As- 
cendant be aspected by the lord of the eighth, the 
man becomes poor. 


If the chief significatory planet and/or the as- 
cendant be aspected by the lord of the twelfth, 
the persons become spend thrift or have expen- 
sive habits. 


If the Ascendant or the chief significatory planet 
be aspected by the lord of the Ascendant or by 
the lord of the house occupied by the chief 


42. 


43. 


44, 


45. 


Anudha System of Prediction 29 


significatory planet, the persons become power- 


If the Ascendant or the division occupied by the 
chief significatory planet has the same number of 
planets on either side of it i.e. the second and the 
twelfth, or in the fifth and the ninth, or in the 
third and the eleventh or in the fourth and the 
tenth or ‘in the sixth and twelfth ei), the 
man gets misery or imprisoment. 


Similarly in the case of the twelve zodical divi- 
sions and their lords: if the surrounding planets 
be benefic, the misery or bondage is nominal, but 
if they be malefic, the person is chained and 
whipped even. 


If there is Rahu in the Pada of the fifth place from 
the Ascendant, and if he is aspected by the Sun, 
the man loses his eyesight. 


If there are the Moon and Venus in the fourth 
house from the chief significatory planet, the per- 
son gets processions with band etc.. and royal 
insignia like chowry and the like. 


Chapter III 


Lagna Pada (From Nadis) 


Deva Keralam (1) p 104-V-1158 :- 

wafer ara Tansey vaegary 

yates TU ta aarti 
Meaning :- 


“After the 24th year of life, the native will soon 
attain prosperity through his own valour, provided a 
benefic planet occupies the Lagna Arudha Pada (sign) 
and whenever in transit Jupiter comes to an angle or 
trine from that sign also.” 


Notes:- In E.C. (1) the Lagna Arudha sign is Tula 
occupied by the Moon. He earned a fat amount of 
money in his 24th year in 1939 in speculation. When- 
ever Jupiter transited trine or angle signs, rises in 
position or fame or money or writing etc. had taken 
place. 


, Deva Keralam (3) p. 103-Vs 3347-3348:- 
| arARaci¢e wai area a war 
rafrguragis: Tid Taare, A Aa 
fattagremRa gat weaarce 
Rea YTemftd a wearer all 


Arudha System of Prediction 31 


Meaning:- Vrischika Lagna 

“The Sun placed in the Lagna Arudha Pada hav- 
ing exalted (Mesha) Navamsa will cause fortunes to 
the father in native’s 3rd year of life. The father will - 
have a good deal of prosperity between native’s 2nd 
and 5th years. In between these years the father will 
acquire an excellent conveyance.” 


’ Notes:- The Lagna lord Mars is in the 3rd house 
(Makara); so the 3rd from Makara i.e. sign Meena is 
the Arudha Pada of the Lagna, which is occupied by 


the Sun. ‘‘tateaizt’’ in text seems misleading because 
there is no Mesha Navamsa in sign Meena. It can be 


Deva Keralam (1) p. 77. v. 808:- 
waree Pema aR A 
watt wémarcifa fagdhet + fae 


Meaning:- The Lagna Arudha Pada (Kataka) which 
is occupied by the Moon will cause distress in the 
Dasa of Lagna Rasi. The native's mother will also be 
troubled while his father will be bereft of happi- 
ness.” 


Notes:- In Meena Lagna the lord of the Lagna is in 
the 9th house, so the 9th from that, i.e., Kataka is 
Lagna Arudha Pada. It is occupied by the Moon. Ref. 
verses (1) 821 and 810. 


Deva Keralam:- (1) p. 55-Vs 557. 

amred Prema fase 

aa Gerad yer, wquctantaar 1 
Meaning:- 


“The Moon being placed in Lagna-Arudha Pada 


32 Lagna Pada (From Nadis) 


(for one born in Visha Nadiamsa). will cause happi- 
“ness to mother who will be pureminded and ae be 
endowed with brothers and sisters.” 


Notes:- Makara Lagna- Saturn the lord of the Lagna 
is in the 2nd house, so the second from the 2nd house 
will be the 3rd house, which is occupied by the Moon, 
hence sign Meena is Lagna-Arudha Pada. (Ref. -vs. 
549, and 550.) 


Bhrugu Nadi :- p. 96. 


aed weege af gay afaq Gar 

wate mga: aPgadaa: i 

fad: caer araadt qayshqartaai 

Wal ae Seradt varcred fags 
Meaning :- 

“Should the Lagna-Arudha Pada be aspected by 
the Moon, the native at times be miserable and at 
times happy. Native’s father has one brother and two 
sisters. One of them will be fortunate and will have 


son and daughter. The other sister will be happy, so 
says the other group.” 


Deva Keralam (3) p 12. vs. 2166-67-68-69. 
area aR canada 
arecrent We at: AsAt Faq 
art pfsh ad: Hert, aeansitaa:| 
TORTI AAMT FAT 

Meaning:- Vrischika Lagna-Brahma N adiamsa:- 


“The Moon in the Lagna-Arudha Pada, in aspect 
_to_or_in association with Rahu, while the 8th house 


Arudha System of Prediction 33 


there from (i.e. Dhanus) is occupied by a malefic 
planet will cause a specific kind of Kemadruma yoga. 
As a result, the native will be quarrelsome and will 
live by begging and will wander in various countries 
so as to avoid bad results of yoga.” 


ares Tae UR aleHPasrcnsyar 
Ted wd AASTeTUIAaAL| 


saad qaust ageafes: gah 
agrrd fam yaar aafaa Fafa 


Meaning :- 


“The exalted Moon occupies the Lagna Arudha 
Pada i.e. Vrishibha sign, the person will have some 
financial acquistions. In this yoga, if Jupiter is simul- 
taneously in the 8th therefrom (in Dhanus) one will 
enjoy robes, conveyances and food comforts. One born 
with the Moon in the second half of Navamsa will be 
very wealthy and will own vast landed properties 
and be happy. 


Native born, with the Moon in the first half of 
Navamsa will be some what troubled by evil effects 
of Kernadruma Yoga.” 


Notes:- Verses 2166 to 2169. 


In Vrischika Lagna its lord Mars is in the 10th 
house, so the 10th from the 10th house, i.e. the 7th 
house (sign-Vrishabha) becomes the Lagna Arudha 
Pada which is occupied by exalted Moon. Saturn 
and Jupiter are in Dhanus. Rahu is not aspecting the 
Moon. It may be noted that three planets the Sun, the 
Moon and Venus are exalted and Mercury is debili- 
tated. e 


>< F NAVAMSA 
Ref.: Verses. 2106, 2113, 2115, 2119, 2133, 2143, 2145 
yaaa Td aR yA Prana 


34 RR ct aca Si ae Pada (From Nadis) 
KETU 
and 2153. 
aed URES GATT TarLI 


IW ee 
VENUS 
g 12 
LN EL ae 
SAT 
Deva Keralam (1) p. 192. V. 2143. 
Meaning:- 


“The Moon in extremis, aspected by Mars 
and at the same time aspects Lagna Arudha 
Pada, the subject will face hurdles in begetting 


progeny.” 


Notes: Extremis-The Moon in the last 6 degrees of an 
odd sign; the Moon in the first 6 degrees of an even 
sign. 


Bhrugu Nadi p. 87 ;- 
weed ae yaaa zona: 
fafa, RRR TRS 


frat, wep anit wlafsisiitra:| 
ical Afar, art =arenfsirgsitfo: i 


Arudha System of Prediction 35 
Meaning : 


“Tf the Lagna Arudha Pada is occupied by 
Mercury, the native is dark in complexion and virtu- 
ous. At times he suffers from some disease and he 
is handsome with symetrical physique. He eats with- 
in limits, authors a book, is passionate, religious- 
minded and has control over his senses. He is vigor- 
ous, intelligent, well read; earns money honestly and 
leads a noble life.” 


Bhrugu Nadi : p 25:- 


aed Teaqe cara faite 
fafsastradt Ala APAaRTay ATI 
Yaa Herm wera Afeeafa 


Meaning:- 


“If the Lagna Arudha Pada is aspected by Jupiter 
the native’s mother is longlived. At times she is suf- 
fering from some disease. She hails from a prosper- 
ous family. She is a virtuous wife and very fortunate. 
She dies in the native’s 5th Dasa (Pratyaga).” 


Deva Keralam (2) p. 223. V. 1564:- 
fad aaied sia Aeregserprary 
Wa seat wires aaahfera 

Meaning :- . 


“Should Jupiter be Vargottama in Simha sign 
while the Lagna Arudha Pada is sign Mesha, the 
native has limited number of offsprings. There will be 
many births of dead children provided Venus (the 
Lagna Lord) is either aspected by or associated with 
Saturn.” 


, 36 Lagna Pada (From Nadis) 
Bhrugu Nadi:- P. 359:- 


WTSEs YEG Ta aT ae Ad 
sister ar te Fae: et 


Meaning : - 


“If Jupiter is in the Lagna Arudha Pada as the 
lord of the Pada sign, and Venus is in the 5th house 
from the ascendant, the native will be very happy 
from 25th year of his life.” _ 


Bhrugu Nadi. p. 64 :- 
waaree qead afd a ward! 
wie Feary salt mt at Ada 
Meaning :- 


If the Lagna Arudha Pada is either occupied or 
aspected by Jupiter, the Native born is longlived and 
all his calamities are destroyed soon.” 


Notes:- In E.C. (1) (the author's) the Lagna Arudha 
Pada is aspected by Jupiter. He is running 84th 
year of life and is writing the present book (in 
1999). ' 


Deva Keralam (2) p. 248-V. 1850. 
aereged ys caren 
ada aowmareifa marae: 
Meaning :- : 
Makara Lagna-Gopriya Nadiamsa. 


“The native of Gopriya Nadiamsa (Makara as- 
cendant) will have many difficulties in the second 
half of Venus Dasa. Venus is the lord of the Lagna 


Arudha System of Prediction ‘37 


Arudha Pada (sign-Vrishabha). 


Notes:- The lord of the Lagna Saturn is in the 3rd 
house, so the 3rd from the 3rd is the 5th house-sign 
Vrishabha which is occupied by Venus. Ref. verses. 
1834 and 1857. 


Deva Keralam (3) p. 219. V. 4953:- 
GR COMR MOSSES | 
Testa yard era wifesazi 
Meaning :- 
“Saturn and Venus joining in the 11th house from 
the Lagna Arudha Pada will cause fortunes throughout 
life. But the native will be injured in war in a month 


when the Sun transits the sign occupied by Saturn 
and Venus.” 


Notes:- Meena Lagna-The lord of the Lagna Jupi- 
ter is in own Rasi (Dhanus) in the 10th house, hence 
the 10th place from the 10th house is the 7th house- 
sign Kanya is the Lagna Arudha Pada. Venus and 
Saturn are in Kataka, i.e. in the 11th from Pada sign. 


Ref. verses 4869 and 4960. 


Similar verse is given in Deva Keralam (1) p. 
106-verse 1181. The conjunction of Saturn and Venus 
takes place roughly for a month every year. The na- 
tive will be wounded if there is a war during that 
month. 


Deva Keralam (2) p. 251 V 1884-85%2:- 
ama farsa! amred yyfeerd 
wfetara mattered BTA 
whem WK wa gig fet THI 


38 Lagna Pada (From Nadis) 


Meaning :-Makara Lagna :- 


“Saturn should be in Vargottama (in sign Meena 
in Meena Navamsa), Venus occupies the Lagna Arudha 
Pada (sign Vrishabha). In this case Saturn's second 
round of transit (ie. after roughly 30 years-when he 
crosses his natal position) will give auspicious effects 
relating to Laxmi Yoga (i.e. acquisition of wealth). 
After the age of twentythree the person's prosperity 
will increase day by day.” 


Notes:-In Makara Lagna Saturn is in the 3rd house 
(Vargottama), the 3rd place from the 3rd is the 5th 
house-sign Vrishabha which is occupied by Venus (in 
Kanya Navamsa) i.e. the Lagna Arudha Pada. © 


A novel way of Yoga results to fructify, in the 
second round of transit of that particular planet caus- 
ing yoga is indicated by Achyuta, Ref. Verse 1838, 
1841 and 1857. 


Bhrugu Nadi-p. 340:- 

ared yRaa wypeqaelifard! 

arred faa arisd esa! 

yan wa yeaa weiss 

waa Gans: Sa Hea Agta! 
Meaning:- Kataka Lagna-Pankaja Nadiamsa. 


“If the Lagna Arudha Pada falls in a benefic sign, 
occupied or aspected by Venus and the lord of the 
ascendant is in sign Dhanus, these will cause yoga 
named Shubha-Namaka. One born in Subha Yoga will 
be famous. He will be born of the 3rd conception as 
third living child (to his parents). 


Bhrugu Nadi:- P. 354:- 


Arudha System of Prediction 39 


aaresrt YH aed a werd 
Stary OM: BA: VEE 
age Aurel wrrgat vad 


Meaning:- 


“Should Venus occupy or aspect the Lagna Arudha 
Pada, the native born will be beautiful, lucky, of agree- 
able nature, having bewitching face and eyes, fortu- 
nate, wise and shall be having a Raja yoga.” 


Notes:-In E.C. (2) powerful Venus (Tula) is 
aspecting the Lagna-Arudha Pada from the 5th house. 


. Deva Keralam (3) p. 74-V2972:- 


farmreet yr ara Prtifert 
wea yah art  WaerIesar 
Meaning:- 


“One born in Kataka Lagna-Dhananjaya-Nadia- 
msa (the Moon being in the first half of Navamsa) 
while Venus is in the Lagna Arudha Pada with an 
aspect of (Jupiter) the 9th house lord will be lustful 
and will acquire hidden wealth. 


Notes:- The lord of the Lagna, the Moon is in the 
10th house (Mesha) so the 10th place from it is the 7th 
house (Makara) i.e. the Lagna Arudha Pada. Venus is 
posited in the 7th house having an aspect of Jupiter, 
the 9th lord from the ascendant. 


Ref:- verses:-2952,2976,and3003. 
Bhrugu Nadi:-P.27. 


WRIT a ares WAATA| 
Wwareiie wat gqafaa 


40 Lagna Pada (From Nadis) 


Wad wea: CR Wer wWafsar 
art adic way frararil 
Meaning:- 

“Should the Lord of the 3rd house, the Moon (in 
Vrishabha Lagna) occupy the Lagna Arudha Pada in 
the company of Saturn, it will give the native happi- 
ness from one younger sister who will be having a 
son and a daugther. Her husband has yoga, causing 
fortune and he is well known in royal circle. The 


native will get land in his village through this brother- 
in-law.” 


Bhrugu Nadi:- p. 82. 

aed wig, SN <TarTary 

qq mag water afeeraeiar 
Meanings:- 


“If Saturn occupies the Lagna Arudha Pada, the 
native will adopt a child from his family (gotra). He 
will be just to his brothers and his conduct will con- 
form to Vedic codes.” 


Deva Keralam : (2) p. 116-Vs. 345-346:- 


2 afte asta a ar seat aa 
faerem fast ware frememti 
amen fame: caret arahsart 
waa WK are atrisdeaa 
Meaning:- 
“The native will have two elder sisters who will 


be long-lived, one of whom will be grieved, always. 
Mars in Simha Navamsa (Vrischika Lagna-occupying 


Anudha System of Prediction 41 


sign Makara, in the 3rd house-exaltation), so the 
Lagna Arudha sign is the 3rd therefrom, i.e. 
sign Meena, occupied by the Moon. The native will 
live in the colony of Brahmins, will face diffi- 
culties and poverty during childhood. He will attain 
much prosperity after the age of 27 through brother- 
in-law.” 


Deva Keralam (3) p. 49-Vs. 2666-67. 


see UT Tes wyaa SAH 
He Va Aqsaarear WHT 
fread aad Sereararafstrr 
aera Tea at fawaear 


Meaning:- 


“Rahu in the Lagna Arudha Pada will be a blem- 
ish, as a result of which, one will have limited happi- 
ness and limited intelligence in childhood. With the 
passing of time, he will be more intelligent and expe- 
dient. He will also be virtuous. He will receive edu- 
cation but be bereft of Vedic studies. He will serve a 
king, be irritable but instantly pleased.” 


Deva Keralam (3) p 54. Vs 2731-32:- 

eS WET were Are! 

aerantid wad Bassa al 

meade set Aft were YA 
Meaning:- 


“Rahu in the Lagna Arudha Pada (sign Simha) 
being a blemish will cause mental distress in the 5th 
dasa. The effects of this yoga (prosperity) will be 
minimised and the native will receive a mixture of 


42 Lagna Pada (From Nadis) 


good and bad results in this dasa for birth in Champaka 
Nadiamsa. 


Deva Keralam (3) p. 2. V. 2013:- 
— 2 5 ee 
aware fra were fra: gat 
Meaning:- 
“Birth in Simha Lagna with Kanya Navamsa.while 
the Lagna Arudha falls in dual sign, denotes that the 


native will be happy, attached to his wife and will 
also play to the tunes of a whore.” 


Notes:- Simha Lagna-Position of the Sun lord of 
the Lagna is not mentioned in the text D.K. 3 pages 2 
to 7 verses 1998 to 2103. The Sun can be either in Tula 
or Makara or Mesha or Kataka, only then Lagna 
Arudha be a dual sign. 


Deva Keralam 2 P.104 Vs 230% :- 


Tee eT Aa TAT 

a sat art asf sme apr 

WARS Set aT wrenfa afters 
Meaning:- 

“With the Lord of the 11th in the 9th while the 9th 
lord in the 11th, one will gain fortunes. So also when 
both these lords are in the 11th house. If these two 
lords are in the Lagna Arudha Pada (sign), they will 
cause much happiness and prosperity.” 


Deva Keralam (2) P. 92. V. 117:- 
Tey ys 
Paral ATetferer rer 
wt AR: AAV: ATA 
eeeragtfa Areal 


Arudha System of Prediction 43 
Meaning:- 

“The lord of the Lagna Arudha Pada(sign) or the 
Hora Lagna sign should be a benefic planet and be in 
a benefic sign, the native born will own all kinds of 
wealth and will be an important person among his 
relatives.” 


Deva Keralam (2) p.92V.118:- 

fered wae aA faq fee 

WY A aaah AeA AAA 
Meaning :- 


“The Lagna Arudha Pada falling in a fixed sign 
with the Moon also there, while Jupiter is in the 2nd 
house or in the 11th house with strength will bestow 
on the native variety of vehicles.” 


Deva Keralam (2) P.34-V.3034:- 
areca caysfad a 
Tift ye feed aT 


qr weds wa 
wife et a ys ari 
Meaning:- 


“Should the Lagna Arudha Pada be aspected by 
a malefic planet, or be occupied by a planet that has 
lost in a war with another planet or be occupied by an 
inimical planet, then in its period the native will be 
involved in disputes provided the said Pada (sign) is 
unaspected by a benefic planet.” 


Deva Keralam (2) P.251-V.1886:- 
wagered vite: alfa gat 
Ae wy a afaiereapea: 


44 Lagna Pada (From Nadis) 


CASS YR WeFTagSAr 
ys Aart cTerlaawtHdi 


Meaning:- 


“Venus becoming the lord of the Lagna Arudha 
Pada will make one wealthy right-from his birth till 
the end of life. He will be further famous and happy. 
He will have plenty of quadrupeds, corns, ornaments 
and pleasures. This native will construct tanks and 
gardens. This is for one born in Gopriya Nadiamsa 
and Saturn in sign Meena and born in month of 
Chaitra.” 


(The importance is of course of Venus ruling the 
Lagna Arudha Pada). 


Deva Keralam (3) P. 175-Vs 4321-22¥2:- 
Hered faorst Gea aoreqdi 
TAA: WTI: Wasa aA*a_Gaaa: 1 
agar Agel at Me aad 

Meaning:- Makara Lagna 


“Meena sign is the Lagna Arudha Pada and the 
lord of the Lagna Saturn in exalted Navamsa is with 
Mars (in Kumbha) will cause 7 or 8 brothers to one's 
mother(maternal uncles). Two of them will live long 
while the rest will die.” 


Notes:- The lord of the Lagna, Saturn is in the 
2nd house, so the second from that i.e. the 3rd house- 
Meena is the Lagna Arudha Pada. The Lagna lord 
Saturn is in the 2nd house with Mars. 

Ref. verse. 4312. 


Deva Keralam (2) P. 193. Vs-1203-04-05. 


Arudha System of Prediction 45 


arTeetd sid fae spate 
Wat FT Aad aAeAaATraarII 
fafad gevd ait aresatifed:l 
wet faa oes A TAM 
fages: aa wR: framphrarar 
aratet ae wera 


Meaning:- 
Kumbha Lagna-Champaka Nadiamsa. 
“Jupiter in sign Dhanus, the Lagna Arudha Pada, 


obtaining Simha Navamsa, in aspect to Venus-this 
will cause a Raja-Yoga,giving three conveyances. 


The native will have some fear from mean peo- 
ple and will incur diseases caused by indigestion in 
childhood. Although irascible, he could be instantly 
pleased and be charming in apperance, Saturn being 
in the 6th house (under this Raja Yoga). 


He will excel his father, be valorous will have a 
bilious and windy body and will enjoy pleasures of 
the world.” 


xx 


DX 


Notes: The Lord of Lagna , Saturn is in the 6th 


46 Lagna Pada (From Nadis) 


house (sign Kataka) i.e. in the 6th from the lagna, so 
the 6th from the 6th is sign Dhanus, the Lagna Arudha 
Pada which is occupied by Jupiter in own sign. 


(D.K.2.Vs.1195 to 1196). The Lagna Arudha Pada 
is aspected by Venus from the 5th house (V.1210). 


Deva Keralam 1 P.163.V.1824:- 


ga aR GA aeared wed 

IE Gel fred weasisd valid: 
Meaning:- 

“One born in Sudha Nadiamsa, the Lagna being 

a fixed sign, having its Lagna Arudha Pada in sign 
Virgo, will be a ‘Sudra’ (4th caste in Vedic terms) be 
ever happy and he will be the 5th issue of his par- 
ents.” 


Deva Keralam 1. P. 47-48:- Vs 464, 468, 469 


Treat faast Taree IE Same verse D.K. 
ward esera fata ynfrnry_]©) P. 166-4216. 
Meas faa Fares ypsferd468 i 
fried Ss Ten sayfa 
vafra sfriqa: aenaaarrari 
fra wei Pi eae ae 

Meaning:- Kumbha Lagna-Mohan Nadiamsa and the 

Lagna Arudha Pada being Mesha. 


“The lord of the Lagna Saturn, aspected by a 
benefic planet Jupiter) and the Lagna Arudha Pada 
sign being Mesha will cause the native great prosper- 
ity (to his family) in the first-dasa, the second year of 
life will prove highly auspicious. 


Arudha System of Prediction 47 


Will give the following effects: The native will be 
rich right-from his birth . His paternal aunt's son will 
have three vehicles. The native will get auspicious 
effects in the 3rd dasa and will get with his own 
valour fine vehicles.” 


KONG 


g 
\ 3 
SUN 
VENUS} RAHU MERC | SATU 


Notes: Kumbha Lagna. 


In Kumbha Lagna Saturn the Lagna Lord is in 
sign Kanya in the 8th house, so the 8th place from 
Kanya is Mesha in the 3rd house. So the Lagna-Arudha 
Pada is sign Mesha. 


Verses: 448 Saturn in Kanya - Jupiter in Meena 
454 The Moon in Katata 6th house, aspected 
by Jupiter 
462 Venus in Dhanus 
488 Mercury and the Sun in the 9th house. 
450 Mars, 3rd lord in Simha 


Deva Keralam (2) P. 186. V. 1134-35%:- 
SITES WHIT Weaara Yarsarl 
faust fact aravagesferar| 
frguipiagara TSR MGA: | 


48 Lagna Pada (From Nadts) 


Meaning:- 

“A native born with the Lagna Arudha Pada fall- 
ing in an exalted sign of the Lagna lord will have 
fortunes and abundant intelligence . He will be ever 
devoted to lord Vishnu. He will honour his father-in- 
law and dishonour his father. He will also be fond of 
his brother-in-law. (wife’s brother). 


Notes: Suppose in the E.C. (1) the lord of the 
Lagna the Moon is in sign Dhanus i.e. in the 6th 
house, so the 6th place from the 6th is the 11th house 
sign Vrishabha which is the exalted sign of the Moon. 
Hence the Lagna Arudha Pada is Uchcha Arudha. 


Deva Keralam (2) p. 150-V. 705-7062. 
aa wsdaé fagedt st feardati 
Meaning:- 


Sign Simha is the Arudha Pada of the 11th house 
whose lord is Mercury (occupying sign Makara, Mesha 
Navamsa-D.K. (2) p. 150 V. 699). Further ascendant 
lord should be in the company of a malefic planet. As 
a result of these, two of the native's paternal uncles 
will have each two wives.” 


Notes:- In Simha Lagna, the 11th house lord Mer- 
cury is in the 6th house (Makara) i.e. in the 8th from 
the 11th house, so the 8th place from the 6th house is 
sign Simha, the Aseendant. i.e. the 11th house Arudha 
Pada is sign Simha (Ref. V. 699). 


Deva Keralam (2) p. 181-Vs. 1072-73:- 
aed Frm arf 
ada fag: Grei UsER BTA 


Arudha System of Prediction © 49 


yonfeqacna frcadareniesta 
frgeafara omen fafa 
Meaning:- 


“The Moon in sign Dhanus being the Lagna 
Arudha Pada and is also the 3rd from the ascendant. 
During the native's third year of life, his father will 
beget much auspicious effects through royal sources, 
ornaments and robes and be ever satisfied. The native, 
will gain wealth through the good offices of his pater- 
nal uncle's friend.” 


Deva Keralam (1) P. 112 Vs. 1239-1262-1263:- 


IAT: FAA 
ATS VAR A ATI 
Meaning;- 
“Dhanus sign being the Lagna Arudha Pada, the 


father of the native will no doubt have many sons, 
much wealth and much wisdom and be -happy.” 


ATSC AMI TSA 
AAGIs Fafafadsary 
Meaning:- 


“Dhanus sign being the Lagna Arudha Pada the 
native born with the Moon in the second half of the 
Navamsa will be fortunate. He will incur enmity with 
the son of his step-brother and will have opposition 
from relatives.” 


aeé wi at qed weal ward 
aifceusel Fed aifafearenar 


50 Lagna Pada (From Nadis) 


Meaning:- 

“For one born in Kumbha Lagna and Sign Dhanus 
being the Lagna Arudha Pada will always have en- 
mity with his relatives. He will steal wealth of rela- 
tives.” 


Notes:- Kumbha Lagna-The Lord of the Lagna, 
Saturn, is in Makara the 12th house, so the 12th place 
from Makara the sign Dhanus is the Lagna Arudha 
Pada. 


eae 


Ref. Verse:- 1228, 1234, 1241, 1244, 1251, 1271 and 
1320. 


Deva Keralam: (3) P. 58 Vs. 2772-27732. 
fered qc fee uel weaaA! 
qe Aer afaal eves 
Wer wWesra wala: waar 

Meaning:- 


“For Dhanus ascendant, the Lagna Arudha Pada 
is Simha. As a result the native will be affluent. Fur- 
ther in the dasa of Rahu, he will enjoy abundant 
prosperity and become a minister or a justice. He will 


Arudha System of Prediction 51 


be famous in King's service, and be a chief and 
independant.” 


Deva Keralam (1) P. 185-V 2063 and V. 2073:- 


Aree fare cafada Priferd 
aera Hssttaerrmfesta 
Meaning:- 


“Sign Meena is the Lagna Arudha Pada and the 
Lord of the aseendant in aspect to Saturn will cause 
thread ceremony in the second dasa.” 


Wag Besa Bese cay 
aq a gat wi Gar afsar wad 


“The native will be endowed with progeny and 
intelligence, if the 9th lord (Saturn) is in the 6th house 
and the 6th house lord (Venus) is in the 12th house 
and the Sun in the 10th house or the 4th house.(As 
Venus is in the 12th house the Sun must be in the 10th 
house.) 


hae 


XX 


5 

Notes:- The Lagna Lord Vefus is in the 12th 

house in sign Mesha, so the 12th place from it i.e. sign 
‘ 


52 Lagna Pada (From Nadis) 


Meena. Hence the Lagna Arudha pada is sign Meena. 
Saturn is in the 6th house aspecting Venus in the 12th 
house. Ref. verse. 2066, 2081, 2082, 2073. 


Deva Keralam (2) P. 15 Vs. 2836-2837. 


PASSAT TTR FTA: 

ured fart fare a atari 

STE CTH A AMTaI 
Meaning:- 

One born with the Lagna Arudha Pada falling in 
sign Kanya, his father will no doubt be fortunate. The 
native’s 3rd Dasa will bring specially much prosper- 
ity. The second Dasa will. not: be so effective (for 


prosperity),for one having his Moon in the 2nd half of 
Navamsa. 


Notes:- Meena Lagna- Jupiter the lord of the 
Lagna is in Kendra (Dhanus) i.e. the 10th house so the 
10th place from the 10th house is the 7th house (sign 
Kanya). 


Ref. V.2830. Jupiter in Kendra-Dhanus with ex- 
alted: Navamsa. 

Deva; Keralam (2) P.192-v/s. 1195-1201. 

aya fare wed ag waa 

aed weet Teta Gat wh | 

wares sid at FI eat 

aera TaTATT yal AAT wea 

So TTI 

ware wel a Sera: qyfaas 

ame ste GHAR: Yas 


Arudha System of Prediction 53 


wavadga: I: deta: Wy: 
amTree ST wet At weiva: 


Kumbha Lagna Champaka Nadiamsa- The Moon 
in Ist half of Navamsa:- 


“The Lord of the ascendant (Saturn-with Ketu in 
the 6th house (Kataka sign) with sign Dhanus becom- 
ing the Lagna Arudha Pada, will make the native, 
wealthy right from birth, and happy.” 


“Jupiter also happens to be in Lagna Arudha sign 
Dhanus, the Lagna lord (Saturn) with Ketu, the native 
born will be wicked, honourable, will be the leader of 
bad men, be interested in achieving difficult deeds, 
fair complexioned, beautiful eyes, be a king, minister, _ 
leader of an army, be highly honoured soft bodied 
and very intelligent. He will be endowed with all 
kinds of wealth, be of peaceful nature, will indulge in 
various kinds of charities and be a lord.” 


In case of Kumbha Lagna rising, having Langa 
Arudha Pada falling in Dhanus sign, the native will 
be irascible, honourable, fond of wicked men, be 
inwardly croocked, sickly, will cheat others of their 
wealth and undertakings, and will possess a thin body 
that is prone to windy diseases. During childhood his 
body will be lean. This native will be learned and 
will be eating much. It will also make the native 


54 Lagna Pada (From Nadis) 


famous in royal assembly. He will be an. expert in 
giving advice daily related to the use of Mantras, be 
dear to the ruler and happy. 


Notes:- Kumbha Lagna its lord Saturn is in the 
6th house Kataka sign with Ketu so the 6th place from 
it i.e. the 11th house Dhanus sign is the magne Arudha 
Pada which is occupied by Jupiter.” 


Ref. verses 1195 and 1196. 


Chapter IV 
Upa-Pada Kundali 


Jaimini has paid special attention to the Upa-Pada 
(place subordinate to the Lagna Pada) i.e. Pada of the 
place near the ascendant. Just as the Lagna Pada 
is helpful in determining the prospects of the 
native, Upa-Pada is helpful in determining quali- 
ties of the spouse, progeny etc. There are various 
explanations of the term Upa-Pada suggested by 
scholars. 


Chap. 30 of the Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra. 


arena waa we fe 
wg way WATS FAA 
arrays faa! WI Weqea 
CURE SASMSS ASEAN 
wearas A aa aT yA 
yay aa ymeqatert 
Tenge wh sad fered 
Wamegd aa UT oreatfardii4i 
Vara wasn ERISA AT AC: 
gape ta aisa <RaReI5 11 
Vata Wa: Gd leafiaranfterd:| 
arpa wa wa fe i6i 


56 Upa-Pada Kundali 


1-6. “O Brahmin, now I will tell you about Upa- 
Pada, the auspiciousness of which will confer on the 
native happiness from progeny, wife etc. The Pada of 
Lagna (ie. Arudha Lagna) explained earlier is (of 
course) of prime importance. Upa Pada is calculated 
for the bhava following the natal ascendant. This Upa 
Pada is also called Gauna Pada. O execellent of Brah- 
mins, if Upa Pada is conjunct or aspected by a benefic 
planet, or be in a benefic sign, one will obtain full 
happiness from progeny and spouse. Should the Upa 
Pada be in a malefic sign or is aspected by or is 
conjunct a malefic, one will become an ascetic and go 
without a wife. If (in the said circumstances) there be 
a benefic aspect (on Upa-Pada or the related malefic) 
or conjunction, deprival of spouse will not come to 
pass. In this case, the Sun if exalted or in a friendly or 
own sign is not a malefic. He is a malefic if in debili- 
tation or in an enemy's sign.” 


Notes:-Regarding Upa Pada calculations, there are 
more than two views on the same Sloka of Parasara or 
an identical Sutra from Jaimini. In our text the word 
“arpac”’ (Aunchara) is used which denotes “the house 
following the ascendant at birth.” Some interpret this 
as the 5th from ascendant while I feel it should be the 
house succeeding the ascendant, which is the. 12th 
house in normal sense. 


However, when we study other commentaries on 
Jaimini (for example Chaukamba Hindu edition), we 
are taught that it is the 12th house from the natal 
ascendant in the case of an odd sign ascending and it 
is the 2nd house from the natal ascendant in the case 
of an even sign ascending. This argument, to meleems, 
more sound. Accordingly the Pada for the 12th or the 
2nd from the Lagna is called Upa-Pada. In calculating 


Arudha System of Prediction 57 


Upa Pada the special exception rules mentioned in 
Chapter on Arudha Pada be kept in mind. 


Now take E.C. (1):- The ascendant is Kataka an 
even sign, its second house is Simha whose lord the 
_ Sun is 5 signs away from Simha. Hence count 5 signs 
from the Sun (in Dhanus). It is sign Mesha which is 
Upa Pada of E.C. (J). 


E.C. (2):- The ascendant is Mithuna, an odd sign, 
its 12th house is Vrishabha whose lord Venus is 6 
signs away from Vrishabha. Hence count 6 signs from 
Venus (in Tula). Its sign Meena which is Upa Pada of 
E.C. (2). 


Upa Pada Chart (1) 


WANA 


SUE 


Upa Pada Chart E.e (2) 


VOX 


58 Upa-Pada Kundali 


E.C. (3):- The ascendant is Vrischika, an even sign- 
its second house is Dhanus whose lord Jupiter is 8 
signs away from Dhanus. Hence count 8 signs from 
Jupiter (in Kataka). It is sign Kumbha, which is Upa 
Pada for E.C. (3) 


7-12:- Effect of 2nd from Upa Pada:- 


Upa Pada Chart E.C (3) 
OX 


yen sferdgurece feds 

ma yaad a yaad fe we eyez 
sarees feild a drat sradeqa 
FING VTTHT RET AATIII 
Tara Tareqeea aT Temtefteamd aM 
aT AA BI BITMTAA:III 
sored fedtd at. fret after afar 

aA St A fay! aeeRgqat waq1011 
sued fedtishi qenfiaedaal 

wat aed asf aa aay aqui 
wea oa arise a ae fee 
sary fre sata A Aea21 


Arudha System of Prediction 59 


7-12:- Effect of 2nd from Upa Pada:- 


“If the 2nd from Upa Pada is a benefic sign or is 
aspected by or conjunct with a benefic, the same good 
results (as far as wife and sons) will come to pass. If 
there be a planet in the 2nd from Upa Pada in debilita- 
' tion sign/amsa_ or be conjunct with a debilitated /ma- 
lefic planet, there will be destruction of wife. If the said 
occupant be in exaltation sign/navamsa or be aspected 
by another planet, there will be many charming and 
virtuous wives. O Brahmin, if Mithuna happens to be 
the 2nd from Upa Pada, then also there will be many 
wives, O excellent of the Brahmins, if the Upa-Pada or 
the 2nd therefrom be occupied by its own lord or if the 
said lord is in his own house, the death of wife will be 
at an advanced age.” 


Notes:- 


E.C. (1):- The Upa Pada is in Meshaa malefic sign, 
beneficially aspected by the Lagna lord the Moon. How- 
ever, the 2nd from Upa Pada is a benefic sign without 
any occupation or aspect. The native is happily mar- 
ried and endowed with progenic happiness (one son 
and two daughters) but lost his wife in his 60th year of 
- life. Today he is 84 years old. 


E.C, (2):- The Upa Pada sign Meena is aspected by 
Jupiter and the 2nd from Upa Pada is aspected by pow- 
erful Venus and also by Saturn (10th aspect.) The na- 
tive has beautiful wife and two sons. His life is very 
happy. Wife complains about health at times. 


E.C. (3):- The Upa Pada sign Kumbha is aspected 
by Mars and Saturn both. The native lost his first 
wife. The 2nd from Upa Pada is occupied by Rahu 
and aspected by Mars and exalted Jupiter. He is happy 


60 Upa-Pada Kundali 


with second wife and has two sons and two daugh- 
ters. : 


Loss of wife is to be expected if the 2nd from Upa 
Pada is occupied by a debilited planet, or the occupant 
of the said 2nd is in debititation Navamsa or is con- 
junct a debilitated planet (i.e. a benefic debilitated join- 
ing a malefic in the 2nd from Upa Pada) or a benefic 
joining a malefic in the 2nd house. 


Vrishabha, becoming the Upa Pada is said to give 
many wives or plurality of marriages. 


Although there may be combinations for early loss 
of spouse if the 2nd lord from the Upa-Pada is in the 
2nd itself or is in his other sign, it will considerably 
protect the native from such a calamity. And the spouse 
as a result will live upto advanced age. 


SRE dedsad ered <paa 
sarge Prey warta A Gwa1113 11 
seca: trea feneteraisa at 
WH eRe: wai gq fardarqi4i 
sored fed at ysarauat fra 

wre Get wat Feat WUTPaATIIIS I 


13-15: Wife from the 2nd of Upa Pada:- (Upto verse - 
22):-“Tf a planet being constant indicator of wife (i.e. the 
7th lord or Venus) is in own house, there will be loss of 
wife only ata later stage. If the lord of Upa-Pada or the 
constant significator of wife is in exaltation, the wife 
will be from a noble family; reverse will be the case, if 
debilitated. O Brahmin if the Upa Pada or the 2nd from 
Upa Pada is related to a benefic, the wife will be beau- 
tiful, fortunate and virtuous. 


Arudha System of Prediction 61 


saree fed a ufos fert af 
aa fara an at stad fEsiii6ll 


16: “Should Saturn and Rahu (both) be in the 2nd 
from Upa Pada, the native will lose his wife on account 
of calumny or through death.” 


saree fed of fafage) aa feed 
ea aa ae TTT 


17:- The native’s wife will be troubled by disorder 
of blood, leucorrhoea (Yet) etc. if Venus and Ketu, both 
are in Upa Pada or in the 2nd from it (Upa Pada).” 


quaq fit aa deaisfeeraraeaan 
TAM: UMPTTeH AISA ATA TAT 8 1 


18: “Mercury with Ketu in the 2nd from Upa Pada 
will cause breakage of bones while Rahu, Saturn and 
the Sun will cause distress of bones.” 


ween ques aera fea 
quad qeral danfseanbreqaig9 i 
aueasaata we 2a festa 
geafaert aa aeraasiiaatl 12011 
warren faa qe feet aan 
ae aN sat STEP ATI 
wie UAata Tegaitesnaan 
yaar Ata wel aa faofeaarii220 


19-22: “ Mercury and Rahu in the.2nd from Upa 
Pada will give a stout bodied wife. If the 2nd from Upa 
Pada happens to be a sign of Mercury and tenanted by 
Mars and Saturn, the wife of the native will suffer from 
nasal disorders. Similarly, a sign of Mars becoming the 


62 Upa-Pada Kundali 


2nd from Upa Pada and occupied by Mars and Saturn 
will, cause nasal disorders to one’s wife. Jupiter and 
Saturn will, if be in the 2nd from Upa Pada, cause dis- 
orders of ear/eyes to the wife. If Mercury and Mars be 
in the second from Upa Pada other than own signs or if 
Rahu is with Jupiter in the 2nd from Upa Pada, the 
native’s wife will suffer from dental disorders. Saturn 
and Rahu together in a sign of Saturn which is 2nd from 
Upa pada will cause Jameness or windy disorders to 
the native’s wife. These evils will not come to pass if 
there be conjunction or aspect from a benefic (or from 
another benefic in the case of affliction being caused by 
a benefic himself). 


Notes:- The present author thinks that in all the 
verses viz. 15th, 16th, 17th, 18th, 19th, 20th, 21st, and 
22nd, the Upa Pada and the 2nd from Upa Pada both 
are to be considered for various yogas because Parasara 


mentiones ‘‘sureé fgd4 at’ in verses 15th and 17th. 


MAM Tages at UR: aaat fest 

Tea anf: Ger aired fase 123 11 

wana wesaheangakeea:! 

23-23%: “O Brahmin, all these effects be deduced 
from the 7th Rasi, from their lords and from their 
Navamsa lords derived from the natal ascendant, 


Lagna Pada and from Upa Pada. So say Narada and 
others.” 


sea FaH fas werasqer afei24il 
APM TSH MASAMI 
aiegger fas: gal faeraasii251 
Gergana ya devarar 
weavsfaset fam) Rafe :112611 


Arudha System of Prediction 63 


TRIM seis We: Wired 
awyagqa ast aerergaar waa271 
wre fart wel seqaqa Ri 
eae: SA Ue wad RSA: 112811 


24 14-28: About Sons:- 


“If Saturn, the Moon and Mercury are together in 
the 9th from one of the said places (sloka 23) there will 
be no son at all, while the Sun, Jupiter and Rahu so 
placed will give a number of sons. The Moon so placed 
will give a son while a mixture of planets will delay 
the obtainment of a son. The son indicated by the con- 
junction of the Sun, Jupiter and Rahu above will be 
strong, valorous, greatly successful and will destroy 
enemies. If Mars and Saturn are in the said 9th, there 
will be no son, or a son will be obtained by adoption or 
brother’s son will come in adoption. In all these cases, 
odd signs will yield many sons while even signs will 
cause only a few.” 


fae alere fas Preeti 

AUIS BAT BWA: HAT AaT291 
qamatagired = feecardiren are 

we feimagscaats am fafardqiso 


29-30: Many sons and many daughters :- 


“O Brahmin if Simha happens to be the Upa Pada 
and is conjoined with or aspected by the Moon, there 
will be limited number of children. Similarly if Upa 
Pada falls in Kanya, there will be many daughters. One 
should think in the same way from (i) Navamsa of the 
5th house, (ii) the Karaka in the birth chart and (iii) Yogas 
in the Trimsamsa chart.” 


64 Upa-Pada Kundali 


SSS Tere asf weet gras 
wasenfaal siterssraa fesraaa:1401 


40: “O excellent of the Brahmins, if benefics occupy 
the 2nd from Upa Pada and Lagna Pada, the native will 
be endowed with all kinds of wealth and be intelle- 
gent.” 


saree wae fedtaraateedt) 
Waa SR vafa fread 


41: “One will surely become a thief if the lord of 
the 2nd from Upa Pada is in the 2nd house (from the 
natal ascendant) and be with a malefic planet.” - 


aearaayeriing el ward fee 

Rear Wad Aes: ASAT HGAERNAI 
warat Hey: ecacaene fect 
framecarad we faa aanfestaii43 i 


42-43: “O Brahmin, if Rahu is in the 2nd house from 
the lord of the 7th counted from Upa Pada, the native 
will have long and projected teeth. Ketu so placed will 
cause stammering, and Saturn so placed will make one 
look ugly. Mixed will be the effects if there are mixed 
planets. 


From “The Updesha Sutra of Jaimini” 
by Prof. K.V. Abhyankar pgs. 217 to 221:- 


(1) Upa Pada is the Pada of the neighbouring house 
(i.e. the twelfth) from the ascendant. 


(2) If the Upa Pada (or the 2nd from it) has a malefic 
planet in it or its ruler be a malefic planet, the per- 
son renounces his house or loses his wife. 


(3) 


(4) 


(9) 


Arudha System of Prediction 65 


The Sun is not looked upon as malefic in connec- 
tion with these effects of Upa Pada. 


The above mentioned bad results do not occur if 
there be the aspect of a benefic planet on the Upa 
Pada or its next. 


If the Upa Pada or the 2nd from it has a planet in 
his fall, the person loses his wife. 


If the Upa Pada or the 2nd from it has a planet in 
exaltation, the person has many wives. 


If the Upa Pada or the Second from it be the third 
division (i.e. Mithuna Rasi)-similar is the result. 


If the Upa Pada or the Second from it has its lord in 
it or the planet governing wife’s destiny viz the 
planet Venus be occupying his own division (viz 
the 2nd or the seventh) the person loses his wife in 
Jater part of his life. 


If the Lord of the Upa Pada or Venus be in exalta- 
tion, the man gets wife from a noble family. 


(10) If he be in his fall, the opposite is the result i.e. he 


gets wife from a low family. 


(11) If the Upa Pada or the 2nd from it be associated 


(by his presence or aspect) with a benefic planet, 
the person gets a beautiful wife. 


(Ref. E.C. 2 the Upa Pada is aspected by Jupiter 
and the second from it by powerful Venus. Native’s 
wife is beautiful). 


(12) If the Upa Pada or the second from it be associated 


with Rahu and Saturn the man abandons his wife 
on account of public scandal or loses her. 


66 Upa-Pada Kundali 


(13) If Venus and Ketu be there (in the Upa Pada or the 
second from it), the man’s wife suffers from red 
flow. 


(14) If Mercury and Ketu be there, she gets bone-flow. 


(15) If Saturn, Rahu and the Sun be there, she gets fever 
on account.of bone trouble. 


(16) If Mercury and Ketu be there, the wife gets fat. 


(17) If Saturn and Mars be there in the Upa Pada or the 
2nd which is itself the house of Mercury, the wife 
gets nose trouble. 


(18) The same is the result if the Upa Pada or the sec- 
ond be the house of Mars (Mesh or Virschika) and 
Mars and Saturn, be present there . 


(19) If Jupiter and Saturn be there, the wife gets ear 
trouble and vein trouble. 


(20) If Jupiter and Rahu be there, she gets toothache. 


(21) If Sani and Rahu be there, in the Upa Pada or the 
second division from it which is either virgin 
(Kanya) or Libra (Tula), the wife becomes lame or 
suffers from gout. 


(22) All the troubles mentioned above do not occur in 
case a benefic planet aspects or is present in the 
Upa Pada or the second from it. 


(23) The same as above are the results shown by plan- 
ets present in, or lords of, the seventh house from 
the Ascendant or from Upa Pada 


(24) If in the seventh from the Ascendant or Upa Pada, 
there are three planets, Mercury, Saturn and Venus 
together, the person gets no issue. 


Arudha System of Prediction 67 


(25) If the Sun, Rahu and Jupiter are in the 9th place 
from the chief significatory planet, the ascendant, 
the Pada or the Upa Pada, the person gets many 
sons. 


(26) If the Moon be there, the man gets one son. 


(E.C. 1 The Moon is in the 9th from Jupiter the Chief 
Significator the Native has only one son.) 


(27) If there isa combination of benefic and malefic plan- 
ets in the houses mentioned above the man gets, a 
son after a long time. 


(28) If Mars, Mercury are there, the person has to adopt 
a son. 


(29) If the division mentioned above be odd, the man 
gets many sons. 


(30) If one of the divisions mentioned above be Mithuna 
(Gemini) the man gets few issues. 


(31) All the considerations given above apply to the 
above mentioned planets occupying the ninth di- 
vision from the ascendant or from the lord of the 
Ascendant 


. (32) IfSaturn and Rahu are in the third and/or the elev- 
enth (from the Ascendant), the person loses his 
brothers. 


(33) If Venus be in the third or the eleventh, there is the 
loss of the elder or also of the younger co-born. 


(34) The same is the ease if there is Venus aspecting the 
8th from the Ascendant. 


(35) If Mars, Jupiter, Mercury and the Moon are in the 
third and the eleventh the man has may brothers. 


68 Lagna Pada (From Nadis) 


(36) If Saturn and Mars aspect the third and the elev- 
enth the man loses his younger and elder brother 
respectively. 


(37) It there is the aspect of Saturn alone on the third 
and the eleventh, only: the mother remains, 
the brothers and sisters die. (Saturn in the ninth 
house). 


(38) If there is Ketu in the third or the eleventh the man 
gets many sisters. 


(39) If there is Rahu in the second from the division 
occupied by the lord of the seventh from the Upa 
Pada, the man becomes prossessed of very strong " 
jaws. 


(40) If there is Ketu, he becomes: tongue-tied. 
(41) If there is Saturn, the man is ugly. 


(42) The white, bluish, yellowish and other colours of 
the body are according to the division. occupied 
by the chief significatory planet. 


(43) Devotion to deities should be considered 
according to the nature and the house occupied 
by the planet next to the Minister significatory 
planet. 


(44) If the division occupied by the Chief significalory 
planet be connected only with malefic planets, the 
man should be a whoreson. 


(45) It the chief significatory planet be malefic or be in 
the eighth, the above does not hold. 


(46) If Saturn and Rahu are in the division occupied by 
the chief significatory planet, the fact of the man 


Arudha System of Prediction 69 


being a whoreson becomes public. 


(47) If there are the other malefic planets, the fact men- 
tioned above remains unknown to others. 


(48) If the chief significatory planet, accompanied by 
the above mentioned planets be in the division of 
a benefic planet, there is only a scandal and nota 
fact, that the man is born from a person other than 
the father. 


(49) If there are two planets in any house, the man be- 
comes the head of the family. 


Chapter Vv 
Graha Arudha 


qe aaa weil Ger qeqyad fi 
anaes UT eres Waetd 161! 
fanafevand fasta wacrafyi 

fara ue fay Tae HA FAT IITII 


Padas For Planets:- 


“Note the position of a planet and how many 
signs away is its own sign with reference to its posi- 
tion. Count so many signs from the said own sign and 
the resultant sign will become the Arudha of the planet. 
If a planet owns two Rasis or if a Rasi is owned by 
two planets, consider the stronger and declare effects 
accordingly.” 


Notes:- Here it is taught of what can be called as 
Graha-Arudha or Planet's Arudha. From a persual of 
the above verses it can mean that there are planetary 
Arudhas. Since the sage uses “Rasi owned by two 
planets” he obviously hints at coownership of Rahu 
and Ketu. Rahu is a coruler of Kumbha while Ketu 
shares ownership of Vrischika (vide sloka 157 chap-46 
of B.P.H.S.). The exceptions stated for Bhava-Arudhas do 
not apply to Graha-Arudhas. 


Arudha System of Prediction 71 


SURYA-ARUDHA AND CHANDRA-ARUDHA: 
For the Sun 


E.C. (1):- The Sun is in Dhanus. Counting from 
Dhanus to Simha, it is 9 signs away, so count 9 signs 
from Simha, it is Mesha in the 10th house. So Arudha 
Pada of the Sun is sign Mesha. 


E.C. (2):- The Sun is in Vrischika. Counting from 
Vrischika to Simha, it is 10 signs away. So count 10 
signs from Simha, it is Vrishabha in the 12th house. So 
Arudha Pada of the Sun is sign Vrishabha. 


E.C. (3):- The Sun is in Kataka. Counting from 
’ Kataka to Simha, it is 2 signs away. So count 2 signs 
from Simha, it is Kanya in the 11th house. So Arudha 
Pada of the Sun is sign Kanya. 


For the Moon :- 


E.C. (1):- fhe Moon is in Tula. Counting from Tula 
to Kataka, it is 10 signs away, so count 10 signs from 
Kataka, it is sign Mesha in the 10th house. So Arudha 
of the Moon is sign Mesha. 


E.C. (2):- The Moon is in Vrishabha. Counting from 
Vrishatha to Kataka, it is 3 signs away, so count 3 
signs from Kataka, it is sign Kanya in the 4th house. 
So Arudha of the Moon is Kanya. 


E.C. (3):- The Moon is in Kataka. No counting is 
necessary, so Arudha for the Moon ‘is sign Kataka 
itself. 


In case of other 5 planets, (i.e. Mars to Saturn) each 
owns two signs. Then the counting of the planet's 
Arudha in such a case is with reference to the stronger 
of the two signs. For deciding strength of signs one 
has to use his own judgement apart from consulting 


72 Graha Arudha 


hints given in chap 46 (B.P.H.S.). However, there is no 
authentic information available as to how to find 
Graha-Arudhas. Either one can work on experience or 
keep silent on the issue. The liturature. available on 
Jaimini system being limited, nothing more can be 
said about this. 


Planets having two signs (Mars to Saturn): 


; To find stronger of the two signs, the present au- 

thor proposes to consider the strength of the signs on 
the basis of S.A.V. bindus contained in both rasis of a 
particular planet. This idea has no textual support. In 
case where both the signs of a planet have equal 
number of bindus, aspect of benefic planets may be 
considered. 


Arudha of Saturn: 


E.C., (1) Sign Makara has 19 bindus (S.A.V.) while 
Kumbha has 25 bindus. Saturn is in Mithuna (12th 
house) Counting from Mithuna to Kumbha, it is 9 
signs away so counting 9 signs from Kumbha, it is 
Tula in the 4th house. Arudha Pada of Saturn is sign 
Tula. 


E.C. (2):- Sign Makara has 25 bindus while sign 
Kumbha has 26 bindus. Saturn is in Kataka (2nd 
house). Counting from Kataka to Kumbha, it is 8 
signs away. So count 8 signs from Kumbha, it is sign 
Kanya in the 4th house. Arudha Pada of Saturn is sign 
Kanya. 


E.C. (3):- Makara has 22 bindus while Kumbha 
has 30 bindus. Saturn is in Dhanus (2nd house) 
Counting from Dhanus to Kumbha, it is 3 signs 
away so count 3 signs from Kumbha, it is Mesha 
in the 6th house. Arudha Pada of Saturn is sign 
Mesha. 


Arudha System of Prediction 73 


Ce 


Eight examples of Graha-Arudha Padas, collected 
from Deva Keralam (Chandra Kala Nadi) and Bhrugu 
Nadi have been given with relevant charts showing 
planetary positions along with copious notes and ref- 
erence of verses, so as to make it easy for the readers 
to grasp the underlying principles advocated in about 
twenty verses. 


Bhrugu Nadi Pages 191-192:- 


wares Wend acRdgastt all 
aera wt am: atta: | 

HAIRS WaeaHAIar| 

aan faRe Ae weft aes 

wares yyad afd a wre 

mast qurafta: ageaiwrar get: 
Meaning:- Kataka Lagna Suprabha Nadiamsa. 

“If Chandra Arudha Pada is without a planet 
and the 12th and 2nd houses from the Moon are 
all void of planets, and a malefic planet is posited 
in the 12th house from the ascendant-this Yoga 


is named as Kartariyoga. A Native born in Karatari 
Yoga gets much anguish (1) due to troubles from 


XOX 


74 Graha Arudha 


kinsmen and enemies and (2) due to loss of saved 
wealth. 


If Chandra Arudha Pada is occupied or aspected 
by a benefic planet, the maternal family is prosper- 
ous and one maternal uncle is wise and loveable 
man.” 


Notes:- The Moon in the 2nd house, sign Kataka 
is in the 12th house from the Moon-so the 12th place 
from Kataka is the 12th house (sign Mithuna)-Chandra 
Arudha Pada. The Moon is aspected by Venus (from 
the 8th house) and by Jupiter from the 6th house. 
Chandra Arudha Pada is also aspected by Jupiter 
from the 6th house. Saturn is in the 4th house from the 
ascendant. 


Bhrugu Nadi. p. 243. 


aaeeT Ul amet yifsal 


Yatra fet Gaeta 
wa aM a wet wearer afteafa 
werd hq Awl sat Bfeeafa 


Meaning:- “If Rahu is posited in the Chandra 
Arudha Pada, (the mother of the child) suffering 
widowhood, is always pampering and closely 
intent in protecting the child. Such a mother will 
die in the the 5th dasa (of the native). In the period 
of Ketu of the 5th dasa the mother meets her 
death. 


Notes:- The Moon is in Dhanus. Kataka rasi is 
in the 8th house from the Moon; so the 8th 
place from Kataka is Kumbha occupied by the 
Sun, Mercury and Rahu, so Chandra Arudha Rasi is 
Kumbha. 


Arudha System of Prediction 75 


xx 


Dox 


Tula Lagna-Kinnara Nadiamsa:- Lagna aspec- 
ted by Jupiter from the 7th house; 4th lord Saturn 
with Ketu in the 11th; Lagna lord Venus exalted 
in the 6th house; Venus in the 4th from the Moon; 
Mars in own house in the 7th; and the Moon in 
Dhanus. 


Deva Keralam (1) p. 128-Verses 135142-1352-1353. 


Meaning:- 


“One born in Makara Lagna, Venus is Chandra 
Arudha sign having aspect of Lagna lord Saturn, 
his father will be wealthy, famous, will have many 
dear friends, many kinsmen and will have nine 
coborns; of whom five will be sisters and three will be. 
brothers. One (out of the said three uncles) will in the 
native's Janma dasa (First dasa) incur danger (i.e. meet 
death). 


76 Graha Arudha 


Notes:- Makara Lagna-The Moon in sign Simha with 
Mercury; the Moon's sign Kataka is in the 12th from 
Simha; so the 12 place from Kataka i.e. Mithuna, is 
Chandra Arudha sign which is occupied by Venus 
and aspected by Saturn, the Lagnalord. 


Ref: Verses: 1337-Lagna lord Saturn in 12th; 1343- 
Jupiter exalted in the 7th; 1346-Mars and Ketu to- 
gether; 1348 Mercury in 8th; 1350-the 5th lord in the 
6th; and the 6th lord in the 8th. 


Deva Keralam (3) p. 92-Vs. 3211/12-13-14:- 


arfareet we Arat aedaisty 

ar aa Tea wet fasacitgy 
SAR sah area Ward wartafrar 
eee Hae: Taig: Foray 
aes we Ara esr 
SRST HEN wMyAGd Aad 

ae yraade: aaq feudal 


Meaning:- 


“Saturn having debilitated Navamsa being in 
the Arudha Pada of Venus and in Parameshwara 
Nadiamsa will give the following effects. The person 


Arudha System of Prediction 77 


concerned will be merciful, argumentative, libid- 
inous, addicted to material pleasures and unorth- 
dox for some time. Later on, he will adopt a good 
path. 


At the time of his marriage there will be some 
misunderstanding and his father will also be in trou- 
bles. Should Saturn occupying debilitated Navamsa 
be in Arudha Pada of Venus (11th lord), one's eldest 
brother will be afflicted by a great disease, and he. 
will have an adopted son. The native will have two 
brothers, out of whom, one will have two sons and 
possibly two wives.” 


SKS 
XX 


Notes:- Kataka Lagna (Chara) Parameshwara 
Nadiamsa:- 


Venus in. sign Mesha, counting from Mesha to 
Vrishabha (a sign of Venus) two signs so the 2nd sign 
from Vrishabha is Mithua-Arudha Pada of Venus 
which is occupied by Saturn. 


Ref Verses:3207 Venus in Mesha; Mars in Vrishabha 
and Saturn in Mithuna; 


3213 Saturn in dual sign-in debilitated 
Navamsa. 


78 Graha Arudha 


3224’ Rahu in the 3rd house. 
3228 The Moon in trine to Venus. 


3229 The Moon aspected by two malefics- 
Saturn and Mars. 


There is textvariation for @44Ta1-there is MAMET 
in G.O.M.L. whose page 65-foot note. 


Deva Keralam (3) p-102, Vs 3331-3332:- 
art geared Site: geafwa: 1 


ae qirap ay aaa: il 
Terra wit set at qaraartl 


Meaning:- Vrischika Lagna. 


“Tf the lord of the weekday (Monday-birthday) 
occupies the Arudha Pada in sign Tula, one will be 
addicted to women and intoxicants. One born on Mon- 
day in Vrischika Lagna which has Makara as its 
Navamsa will secretly indulge in sinful deeds. He 
will be passionate, irascible, honourable and very 
fortunate.” 


Notes:- The Moon is in Mesha. Counting from , 


Arudha System of Prediction 79 


Mesha to Kataka (the sign of the Moon) it is four 
signs. Count four sign from Kataka. It is Tula-Chandra 
Arudha sign. 


Ref Verses:3328 birth boy Monday and Vrischika 
ascendant 


3339 the Moon in sign Mesha-6th house 
in Tula Navamsa. 


3344 Mercury Kumbha. 
Saturn in Simha; 
Jupiter in Kumbha 


Deva Keralam (3) p. 223-Vs 5012-13-14: 


Meaning:- Dhanur Lagna-Ghatamsa. 


“One born in Suprabha Nadiamsa having Venus 
in the-Arudha Pada of Saturn the lord of the 2nd 
house, will obtain much wealth and robes in the dasa 
of (Mars) the lord of the 5th house. 


He will lose his own wealth in completing as- 
signments to help the king. To some extent he will 
deceive his friends in Saturn's dasa. 


As a result of his misdeed, his 5th dasa’s 
end will cause anguish. The first sub-period 
of the 6th dasa will cause loss of his hoarded 
wealth.” 


80 Graha Arudha 


Note:- Dhanur Lagna. 


“The'lord of the 2nd house Saturn, is in the 11th 
house from the 2nd house i.e. Vrischika and the 11th 
place from it is Kanya i.e. the 10th house occupied by - 
Venus. 


Ref Verses: 4977 Saturn in Vrischika , 
4992 8th lord the Moon in Lagna; 
4944 Rahu in Simha; 
5027 Mars in 11th with the Sun; 
5002 Venus debilitated in the 10th. 


Deva Keralam (1) p. 68-V 710-711-712¥2- 


SMES Vd Cares YarctHar 
wahrdaaantasggaga: Gath 
TRAIT SSSA 
aerated wid aaligaerti 


Meaning:- Meena Lagna-Kunda Nadiamsa: 


“Tf Jupiter is posited in the Arudha Pada of the 
12th lord (in sign Dhanus) in exalted Navamsa, de- , 


Arudha System of Prediction 81 


notes attainment of Punya Loka after death. In addi- 
tion, his father would attain the Brahama Loka 
after death. The native will have two brothers and be 
happy. The native will be troubled due to bad health 
in Kala-Chakra dasa conjunctions. To overcome this 
blemish, the clever native should adopt remedial 
measures.” 


Waa 


Notes:- Meena Lagna-Kunda Nadiamsa: 


(1) Verses 638 to 713 (75 verses) (1) pages 62 to 68; 
and (2) verses 4400 to 4475 (75 verses) (3) pages 180 to 
185. 


Same Meena Lagna-Kunda Nadiamsa is repeated. 
In the text position of Saturn is not mentioned but 
in verse no. 675-states that the transit of Saturn thro- 
ugh sign Tula will cause fortunes, it means the 
natal Saturn should be in Kumbha. Only Saturn in 
the 9th from the natal position would cause big for- 
tunes. 


Saturn in Kumba (12 house)—counting from 
Kumbha to Makara (Saturn's sign) ie. the 12th house; 
so the 12th place from Makara is Dhanus which is the 
Arudha Pada of the 12th lord (Saturn) which is occu- 
pied by Jupiter. 


82 Graha Arudha 


’ Ref. Verses:- 638, 645, 655, 665, 675 and 698. 
Deva Keralam (3) p. 24-Vs. 2328-29:- 
SMES Bs Teor a Frifard! 

Wag age Ue qa aA wad 

qeacih aa fae utaty afterd 
Wer wa wea alae aa 


Meaning:- Simha Lagna-Mudgara Nadiamsa. . 


“Venus in.the Arudha Pada of the 12th lord, in 
aspect to Jupiter and two malefics denotes that the 
‘native’s meritorious and sinful deeds will be equal in 
measure and he will attain heavens after death. A 
malefic planet in the ascendant will cause rebirth as a 
Soodra; same result, if a malefic is in the 10th 
Nakshatra counted from the Moon. 


SUN RAHU 
VENUS 
MER 


Ref Verses: 2312 The sun with Rahu; 
2315 Mars in Vrischika; 


2321 Venus aspected by Saturn and Mars;’ 
2324 The Sun aspected by Jupiter; 


Arudha System of Prediction 83 


2331 The Moon is the 2nd house (also 
verse 2334); 


2338 The Sun with Venus; 
; 2348 Saturn aspects the Sun. 


Notes:- The Moon (12th lord) in Kanya (2nd house), 
courting from Kanya to Kataka (the Moon's sign) 
te. in the 11th sign; so the 11th place from Kataka 
is Vrishabha which is occupied by Venus aspec- 
ted by Jupiter and by Mars and Ketu. So sign Vrisha- 
bha is Chandra Arudha Pada-the lord of the 12th 
house. 


Chapter VI 
Putra (Mantra) Pada 


greet ay fasarrermadari 
camry aay fanaa 


Meaning :- 


If the Arudha Pada of the 5th house falls (is pos- 
ited) in the ascendant, the native is a devotee of Lord 
Vishnu. The worship of Lord Vishun is the best 


amongst all worships.” 


Bhrugu Nadi. P.225:- 


Taran ax Ta Fer 

Tae Wt PATA 

weer wii ae aaa 

aa SIAR IAAI 
Meaning:- 


“The Moon occupying the Arudha Pada of the 5th 
house; the lord of that Pada rasi is posited in sign 
Mithuna or Kanya and a malefic is in the 7th house from 
the ascendant, will obstruct the birth of progeny. To 
ward off this blemish one must undertake propitiatory 
measures. The native will get a virtuous son due to 
auspicious deeds done previously in course of time. 


\ 


Arudha System of Prediction : 85 
Bhrugu Nadi P.154:- 


treed Get ga wlafrifaa 
ERS HAS BATAAN 
seated REAR werd 
Fearne Seana: TAM 


Meaning:- 


“If Mercury occupies the Arudha Pada of the 5th 
house, Saturn has an aspect on the 5th house and Karaka 
(Jupiter) is aspected by Mars the native’s wife will give 
birth to dead children. In order to ward off this blemish 
one should give in charity Shinshumaram and an idol 
of Lord Mukund. Thereafter, there will be birth of a liv- 
ing child, no doubt.” 


Notes:- Shinshumaram is an idol of lizard prepared 
from tamarind tree wood, wrapped in golden leaves 
and studded with jewels, be given in charity to a Brah- 
min Purohit (or astrologer) to ward off this blemish. 


Deva Keralam 2. P.10.Vs 2799-2800-2801 
Weed Gat Asst Aqag 
ee ¢ Gatfaaiaarar | 
alt a we a wafer waa 
eRe SRR GAita-uary 
aerated y Wea wera 
Meaning:- Meena Lagna 
“Mercury in the Arudha Pada of the 5th house in 
Mesha Navamsa, and in company of Ketu will cause 


obstacles in acquisition of progeny, for one born in 
Yoga to have no child. 


86 Putra (Mantra) Pada 


The same effect willcome to pass if the ascendant 
Meena falls in the Vrishika Navamsa, begets the aspect 
of Saturn and Karaka Jupiter occupies the 12th house. 
To remedy this evil, donation of an image of the zodiac 
be given.” 


Ref: Verses :-2776, 2780, 2783, 2784, 2789, 2812, 2817 


Notes:- In the original text of G.O.MLL. ‘‘Yareendt 
ar}"’ reading is suggested in the foot note for” 


‘gaara atet’’, Moreover Mercury in the 5th house 
i.e. Kataka sign, does not obtain Mesha Navamsa hence 
suggested reading is correct. 


Lord of the 5th house, the Moon is in the Lagna 
i.e. in the 9th from the 4thhouse, so the 9th from the 
Lagna is the 9th house i.e. sign Vrischika is Putra 
Arudha sign, which is occupied by Mercury in com- 
pany of Ketu. 


Bhrugu Nadi.P.278:- 
qed sia weneantadl 

‘N 
Gees a GaritertHart! 


Arudha System of Prediction , 87 


Agarie Balt aM ward 
Toarreriipd were qparl! 


Meaning:- 


“If Jupiter alongwith a enuch planet occupies the 
Arudha Pada of the 5th house, the native is anguishing 
on account of early dealth of children because he had 
an association with a wicked woman.” 


“To ward off this blemish he should:- 


(i) Bathe at Setu (Rameshvaram); and (ii) Conduct 
Naga Shanti. 


After completing these Shanti Karmas,. he will get 
a virtuous son in his fifth dasa. 


Bhrugu Nadi.P.399:- 

WAM Tar wel adel aaag 
ated waaad Gaia 
Raa Seat aM Gaal 


Meaning:- 


“If the Arudha Pada of the 5th house is occupied 
by Ketu, Rahu is in the 5th house from: the ascendant 
and the Lord of the 5th house conjuncts the Moon, will 
cause obstruct in getting progeny. If Venus occuppies 
this sign, the native will be happy and will have prog- 
eny in the form of an adopted son. 


Bhrugu Nadi: p. 298:- 
TrSsy we adearnanrad 
aad We Sata varT 
aq waked yaeraad at 


88 Putra (Mantra) Pada 


Meaning:- 


“Jupiter being the lord of the Arudha Pada of 
the 5th house is in Vandhya Navamsa and Saturn 
occupying the 12th house from the ascendant will cause 
obstruction in having progeny. In order to ward off this 
blemish, one should resort to lord Subrahmanya Vrata.” 


Bhrugu Nadi-P. 410:- 


Taeend val wa Sahat 
Art gest sta aarfrasrarqi 
weaenest Aaah A 
afd Wadia Te Sal 
TMAPOII PTAA TI 
eee Ad AA ATI 


Meaning:- Vrischika Lagna. 


“The Arudha Pada of the 5th house falling in 
Kendra or Kona house from the ascendant, having Rahu 
therein and Jupiter (Lord of the 5th house) in sign 
Vrishabha, having debilitated (Makara) Navamsa will 
obstruct in getting progeny. In order to ward off this 
blemish the native should bathe (three times) at Setu 
(Rameshwaram). He should also conduct Naga Shanti; 
give a cow in charity on Monday and an idol of Lord 
’ Balkrishna or resort to Lord Subrahmanya Vrata, there- 
after a longliving child will be born definitely. 


Ref. Bhrugu Nadi P.247 

ated Usage AMeMHarl 
aerated se a ARTI 
Series Sa AM weed 
weartaeatred gam anfestqi 


Arudha System of Prediction 89 


Deva Keralam (1) P. 158. V. 1776-77 


Taree YR Wa Safran 
ARR Wits: PIgitasarql 


Meaning:- 


“J£ Venus becomes the Lord of the Arudha Pada 
of the 5th house and placed in the 10th house or its 
trines (i.e. 5th and 9th from the 10th) counted from the 
rising sign, the native will have obstacles in attaining 
progeny, provided the native is born in Meena Nava- 


Bhrugu Nadi:- P. 344:- 


ated Uae warfare 

ween AqeraaHAI| 

arena wasia Riya ST ay 

Torrent vile VAaTAarT| 
Meaning:- 


“Saturn aspecting the Arudha Pada of the 5th house 
will obstruct getting progeny. In order to ward off this 
blemish the native should:- 


(i) Bathe in Setu (a must); (ii) carry out Naga Shanti 
and (iii) do Japa of Shinshumara. 


After having done the above Shanti Karmas a_ 
living child will be born (as against birth of a dead 
child.) 


Deva Keralam: (3) P. 73-V2968:- 


Riana A A AT: 
mame fad wa qatar a 


90 Putra (Mantra) Pada 
-Meaning:- 


“If the Arudha Pada of the 5th house falls in the 
10th house (Madhya) i.e. the 6th place from the 5th 
house) the native will certainly incur grief in his old 
age on account of loss of his son for one born in Kubera 
Nadiamsa.” 


Deva Keralam (3) P. 74.Vs.2969-70; 


Meaning:- 


“Rahu in the 5th house from the ascendant while 
Saturn in the 8th from the Arudha Pada of the 5th house 
will cause wandering disposition to the native’s son. 
The native’s daughter will be in grief. 


With the help of the Ashtakavarga of the 5th 
house lord (i.e. from the Ashtakavargaof Mars) results 


XX 
2% 


Kataka Lagna/Kuber Nadiamsa 


Arudha System of Prediction 91 


and characteristics concerning the native’s son be elabo- 
rately decided. The Nadi texts some what explain 
these.” 


Ref. Verses:- 2947, 2949, 2952, 2969, 2976, 2986, 3003, 
3007. 


Notes:- The 5th house Lord Mars is in the 7th house 
ie. in the 3rd from the 5th so the 3rd from the 7th is the 
9th house (Meena)- Arudha Pada of the 5th house. Sat- 
urn is in the 4th house i.e. in the 8th from the Arudha 
Pada of the 5th house. 


Deva Keralam (3) p. 76-Vs 3007-08:- 


weafirmge wa dferatel effet 

Fremptor age aretrfeat Aes! 

sarod <A RaTeARa: I. 

wat feqe Fe eqerenfdsa 

WaeRrarcita art Fe 
Meaning:- 


“The Sun in the Arudha Pada of the 6th house in 
aspect to the Moon while Saturn is in trine from the Sun 
will cause tuberculosis of the lungs. 


For one born in Kuber Nadiamsa and the Moon 
being in the 2nd half of Navamsa will be sick for long 
durations of time . Saturn in the 4th house gives dis- 
eases. Abdominal disorders are also possible. After 
some time good health will prevail. All Nadis mention 
these. 


Notes:- The verse of the Arudha Pada of the 6th 
house is included with the 5th house Pada, because it 
‘refers to the same chart given for the previous verses 


92 Putra (Mantra) Pada 


2967-2970. The lord of the 6th house Jupiter is in the 
ascendant i.e. in the 8th place from the 6th house; so the 
8th place from the first house is Kumbha, the 8th house 
which is occupied by the Sun. The Sun is in trine to 
Saturn. 


Chapter VII 
Shatru (Roga) Pada 


asree fm yaar fried 
figaera gfe: IGA FAT 
aa wat aad arate 
We Wea aifaare faeraiextq 


Meaning :- 


“Should the Moon be in the Arudha Pada of the 
6th house in aspect to Mars, the native’s father’s dy- 
nasty will expand while that of mother’s nanaey 
(maternel side) will be impeded.” 


“The Lord of the 5th house (the Sun) is in associa- 
tion with the Lord of the 8th house (Mars); Saturn is in 
trine (to that Mars) in the 2nd house, Rahu (in the 3rd 
house) will bring obstacles in the marriage of the 
native’s daughter.” 


Notes: Mesha Lagna:- 


‘‘userac'’ reading is suggested in G.O.MLL. 
edition’s foot note. 


Verse 2404 The Moon in the 4th house eosin by 
Saturn and Mars; 


2412 The Sun in Makara with Mars; 
Venus in Meena; 


Shatru Oe =~ Sn Pada ° 


VENUS sews] SATURN 


XE 
XIE 


2415 Jupiter in Kumbha with Mercury; 
2429 Rahu in Mithuna. 


The Lord of the 6th house Mercury is in the 11th 
house i.e. in the 6th place from the 6th house; so the 6th 
place from Kumbha is Kataka in the 4th house, occu- 
pied by the Moon who is aspected by Mars from the 
10th house and by Saturn from the 2nd house ’ 


Deva Keralam (1) P. 173-V-1949-50 1/2:- 


Taree faa se a tas al 
aad aened gq Aeente wraaq 


Meaning:- 


RAHU 


“The subject will be troubled by a great disease if 
the Arudha pada of the 6th house is aspected by the 
aseendant Lord or by Saturn as the Lord of the 10th 
house is endowed with strength.” 


Deva Keralam (3) P. 15.Verse 2200 1/2-2001. 
AGSree A TAI Weal 

qdant ager uli Gas 
qaetutareat: SI at AAAI 


Arudha System of Prediction 95 
Meaning:- Vrischika Lagna-Sama Nadi Amsa:- 


lf Satrun in company of Jupiter occupies the 
Arudha Pada of the 6th house, the native’s maternal 
uncle will die in hermitage, provided the Moon is in 
the first half of Navamsa. Such maternal uncle will at- 
tain Brahma Lok in case of birth when the Moon.-is in 
the second half of Navamsa. 


Miscellanous Verses:- 


Deva Keralam (3) p. 225 vs. 5049%2-5001%2:- 


THTSSG YR STA WATT 

deigatrretfa arg: saa 

MAT WAM TAMTBS TT 

eeeai ma AR tee fara 
Meaning:- 


“Tf the Lord of the Arudha Pada of the 8th house 
Venus, falling in the 10th house is in a benefic (Meena) ' 
Navamisa the native is long lived in spite of chances at 
times of untimely dealth.” 


“When Saturn transits on the degree of the 
Navamsa Rasi occupied by (Venus), the Lord of the 
Arudha Pada of the 8th house, the native will have great 
danger to life in the 8th lord’s dasa (for one. born in 
‘ghata’ Nadi Amsa). — 


Notes:- Dhanur Lagna 


The lord of the 8th house, the Moonis in the Lagna 
(Dhnus) ie. in the 6th house from the 8th, so the 6th 
place from the Lagna (Dhanus) is the 6th house i.e. 
Vrishbha whose lord Venus is in the 10th house (sign 
Kanya in Meena Navamsa). 


96 Shatru (Roga) Pada 


Ref Verse:- 4992 8th Lord the Moon in the Lagna 
Dhanus; 


Verse 5002. Venus in Kanya (10th House) in 
exalted Navamsa 


Verse 5049 Venus in the 10th House. 
Bhrugu Nadi-P. 192:- 
amaragaredt waft aferator 
wegead da wert fatafesta 
wage ge a wacsara fafafeetai 
qe ge we wot frenay gear Taq 


Meanaing:- 

“If the Lagna Arudha Pada and Bhagya -Arudha 
Pada (being in conjunction)are posited in the 7th house 
or in its trines (i.e. the 3rd the 11th house) and that sign 
is associated with or aspected by Venus, a kind of Raja 
yoga is declared. If that sign is associated with or 
aspected by another planet(other than Venus) little luck 
be predicted. Jupiter’s aspect (only) on that sign will 
cause native full luck and also he will be learned and 
intellectual.” 


Notes:- Here Bhrugu has taken into consideration 
two Arudha Padas of different Houses falling in one 
house. This is a novel use. 


Deva Keralam (1) p. 89 Vs. 969-970-9712 


waaeaee aT aT | 

wean fa wat WT a Tet AAAI 
Tar, waTayT UE ASK: | 
Aenea are frrcresiqasst || 
aera FT TeTaTeaaya : | 


Arudha System of Prediction 97 
Meaning:- 


“Venus aspecting or joining the Arudha Padas of 
Lagna, the 9th house and the 12th (all falling in one sign) 
causes a Raja Yoga. Such a native will become a king or 
equal to him; will be endowed with valour and be he- 
roic. He will be fond of dramas, rhetorics, poetry and 
music. He will speak fluently and be truthful. He wal 
be fond of scents, garlands and costly robes. ’ 


Notes:- In the previous verses Bhrugu has taken 
conjunction of two Padas in one sign. Here Achyuta has 
taken into account conjunction of three Arudha Padas 
in one sign. This is wonderful and needs attention. 


Deva Keralam (2) P. 82:-V.53:- 


wed We afd a wad 
waeesag af ata atta gat 


Meaning:- 


“One will enjoy prosperity, fame and be happy, if 
the Lagna Arudha Pada or Bhyagya Arudha Pada is ei- 
ther aspected or occupied by Venus.” 


Notes:- In E.C. (1) Bhagya Arudha Pada 
sign Makara is occupied by Venus. In #.C. (2) Lagna 
Arudha Pada sign Mesha is aspected by Venus (pos- 
ited in Tula). 


Deva Keralam (2) P. 82 V. 54: 
saTrecas West aac 
gesagt aad faa 
age Teta Yat 
TRIATUTaPTaL FATA 


98 Shatru (Roga) Pada 
Meaning:- 


“Should Venus be in the 11th from the Lagna 
Arudha Pada in strength or aspect the said 11th house 
or should Venus be in the ascendant with the Moon (in 
rasi Chart) or in Yogamsa, it will grant conveyance, 
ministership, elephants or headship of an army.” 


Notes:-Yogamsa (Ref. author’s book “Navamsa in 
Astrology ” pages 21) i.e. planet Vargottama in own 
sign e.g... 


Mars in sign Mesha from —_00-00°-00" to 00-3°-20’; 
The Moon in Kataka from 3-00°-00’ to 3-3°-20’ 
Venus in sign Tula from’. 6-00°-00’ to 6-39-20’ 
Venus in sign Vrishabha from 1-13°20’ to 1-16°-40° 


Chapter VUul 
Dara (Kalatra-Bharya) Pada 


The following verses are collected from Deva- 
Keralam and Bhrugu Nadi :- 


Bhrugu Nadi p. 362 


Asa YH eRe Wadtgd! 
aed wage cad AAT! 
Rrewaiseiaan fed yaenterit 


Meaning :- 


“Tf the Arudha Pada of the 7th house is aspected 
by Saturn, Venus is posited in the 5th house from the 
ascendant and the 7th house lord be conjunct the Sun, 
children will be born to the Second wife. The elder (first) 
wife will hardly have a child while the second wife be 
endowed with son/s.” 


D.K. Book (1) p. 165 - V 1851:- 

SERARR dei aed afer! 

wan fas: eq Serra Fail 
Meaning :- 


“One will be comfortable and happy after marriage, 
if Venus occupies the Dara-Arudha sign. Saturn's asso- 
ciation (with Venus) in this case will strengthen such 


100 Dara (Kalatra-Bharya) Pada 


prosperity and the native will be lucky through spouse 
and be happy.” 


“Ashtakavarga” p. 141 (1st edition):- 


WTS Vx wt erst at 
umead Ye waited: Parad! 


Meaning :- 


“When the Moon having Navamsa of a malefic 
planet occupying the Arudha Pada of the 7th house, is 
either in the 7th or the 12th house or Venus is associ- 
ated with a malefic planet, the person comes to grief 
through a woman.” ° 


DK. (1) p. 79- V. 837:- 


aeMATES sta caret Yaad 837 
HAAN WHI RASTA! 838 


Meaning :- Meena Lagna-Kamala Nadiamsa :- 


“Jupiter occupying the 7th house Arudha 
Pada (sign Vrischika) in own Navamsa and with 
full strength will bestow the native men-borne convey- 
ances.” 


Notes:- 


This is Meena Lagna. The lord of the 7th house 
Mercury is in the 2nd house i.e. in the 8th place from 
Kanya, so the 8th place from Mesha is Vrischika—in 
the 9th house, which is occupied by Jupiter in Meena 
Navamsa . 


Ref. D.K. (1) verses 779, 810, and 821. 
Bhrugu Nadi. p. 482: - 


Arudha System of Prediction 101 


eae 


KX 


areca tq at Feqigrh 

Triads tad fae FSAI 

went pagar Aa ye MWeeeSAeA | 

Sere Ufa Peaster 
Meaning :- “If the lord of the 7th house Arudha Pada is 
Mars occupying either Meena, Mesha or Vrischika 
Navamsa, the native's wife will be reddish in colour 
and he will be happy after marriage. He will be blessed 
with Mercy of Goddess Laxmi apart from acquistion of 


quadrupeds and grains. He will be always having 
wealth and bliss in the family after marriage.” 


Ref.: D.K. (3) p. 149 - the same above verses - 3997-3998. 
Bhrugu Nadi p. 443:- 
ated GeMge HaasaarTar! 


Meaning : 


“Tf the Arudha Pada of the 7th house is aspected 
by Mars, the native will have two wives.” 


Bhrugu Nadi, p. 438. 


102 Dara (Kalatra-Bharya) Pada 


erred Ara sree wPretfard) 
Tarn UTC SASAaT AAT! 


Meaning : 


“Vf the lord of the Arudha Pada of the 7lth house is 
debilitated and that Pada is aspected by Saturn, the 
native takes to ascetism or his wife dies.” 


Bhrugu Nadi p. 438:- 


eRe preaHet ared wftatferd 
ye vega wr: achesfaeari 


Meaning : 


“If the Arudha Pada of the 7th house is aspectd by 
Saturn, the 7th lord is in Kalakutamsa (one of the 150 
Nadiamsas) and Venus conjuncts the Sun, the native is 
short of happiness from wife.” 


Bhrugu Nadi p. 276:- 
aneend vid fareemafrart 
treet fortel ea WerAreaatya: 
Ted: Te ATTA 
Meaning : 

“If the Arudha Pada of the 7th house is occupied 
by Jupiter the native has acquaintance with Brahmins, 
-he will have pleasure talks at the time of enjoying sex; 
he is found of scents, flowers and saffron. He is fond of 


having love affairs with other’s wife and has less at- 
tachment towards his wife.” 


Bhrugu Nadi p. 276:- 


Arudha System of Prediction 103 


ye wird xe aed vated 
Teeter Sat ararsifraeeta: 1 
ARMM ora: arate 


Meaning : 


“If the Sun occupies the Arudha Pada of the 7th 
house and Venus is either associated with or aspected 
by Saturn, the native is cohabiting with other's wife, is 
sensuous; has affairs with ladies of many communities; 
spends more money in various ways. He also enjoys 
harlots. 


Bhrugu Nadi P. 221:- 


eRe He ATSaA fed 
vara weer ea Ty weerifed 


qaarana serena 
framiaat Ut deraeegaai 
maokenel saiedtsry aq 
| Biles sor weve a wR 
weatapaiirad Ay waar Beata 
Meaning : 


“Tf Saturn is the lord of the 7th house Arudha Pada, 
associated with or aspected by Mars and Rahu, will 
cause one’s spouse somewhat sickly and she will have 
troubles relating to conception. This disease is the re- 
sult of sins committed earlier (in his life). This blemish 
will have to be propitiated. These diseases will cause 
mental unconsciousness on account of troubles caused 
by ghosts (evil spirits). In order to ward off these 
troubles, one should have recourse to Japa of Goddess 
Durga Devi. After completing Durga Devi Japa, one 
should carryout Rahu Shanti. After completing all 


104 Dara (Kalatra-Bharya) Pada 


these propitiatory measures (Shanti-Karma) death 
will be overcome and she will be healthy and live 
long.” 


Bhrugu Nadi. P. 217:- 


wiftareet ae graf Gh 

asSraTs We waite 

aaecierred Pagar yer! 

eM at eM sitar 
Meaning : 

“Tf the Arudha‘Pada of the 7th house is:- (i) occu- 
pied by Saturn; (ii) the Sun occupies the 5th house; and 
(iii) a malefic planet in the 9th house from the ascen- 
dant—these will cause obstruction in getting progeny. 
In order to ward off this blemish one should give in 
charity an idol of Shinshumaram (explained else 


where). In addition Meshadi propitiation be done or a 
cow be given in charity on Monday.” 


Bhrugu Nadi p. 217 :- 


wifes AS YT Vest |siferd 
ae teadge ater frarar 
cara serene pare 
wae wae WW wetted! 


' Meaning : 
“Tf the Arudha Pada of the 7th house is :- 


(i) occupied by Saturn (ii) Rahu is associated with 
or aspected by Mars and (iii) the lord of the 7th house 
is conjuct the Sun, one should think about diseases to 
wife. The spouse has disease in belly; worms in uterus; 


Arudha System of Prediction 105 


in absence of that she has troubles relating to concep- 
tion.” 


Bhrugu Nadi p. 138. 


aed Fema qsregqactfard 
Tea aaa saa STE 
ARR Geant aefreaaferesar 


Meaning : 


“If the Arudha Pada of the 7th house is occupied 
by the Moon having an aspect or association of Mars 
will cause Hansa Yoga, i.e. the native will be wor- 
shipped as Guru-(preceptor). He travels many coun- 
tries and has many pupils and sub-pupils.” , 


D.K. (3) p. 194 - V 4600:- 


. waareet sid cast yoiaufaai 
SrA WATT AAA, Fa! 
Meaning : 


“Jupiter in Arudha Pada of the 7th house with a 
Navamsa of his own and in full strength will give the 
native men-borne conveyances. (Born in Meena Lagna 
and Kamala Nadiamsa). 


Notes:- In Meena Lagna, the lord of the 7th house 
Mercury is in the second house-Mesha sign i.e. in the 
8th from the 7th; so the 8th from Mesha is Vrischika 
sign—the Arudha Pada of the 7th house occupied by 
Jupiter in own Navamsa. 


Ref. D.K. (3) Verses - 4562; 4566 and 4600. 
Bhrugu Nadi p. 430 :- 


106 Dara (Kalatra-Bharya) Pada 


Ta TR SR STATA 
ared Te edresfarary|| 


Meaning : 


“Tf the Arudha Pada of the 7th house is occupied 
by Venus; the Moon occupies the 7th house from the 
ascendant and the 7th lord is exalted; the native will 
have distinctive happiness from wife. 


Notes:- Bhrugu has taken into account house-oc- 
cupied by a benefic; lord of the 7th to be exalted and 
Karaka Venus in the Arudha Pada. 


D.K. (3) p. 88 Vs. 3158-3159:- 
Maree YR Bra vada! 
ae frase: aq Aeweaga waa 
ampere catia ares 
aaa utes waren fatafesta 


Meaning: 


“If Venus is posited in the Arudha Pada of the 7th 
house, begetting Kumbha Navamsa alongwith the Sun 
will cause the marriage of the native in the 2nd Dasa. 
He will get a virtuous wife. 


In the Dasa of the ascendant Rasi (Vrishabha-Ve- 
nus K.C.D) the native’s father will enjoy happiness and 
will gain wealth except during the transit of the Sun in 
Krura sign (months). 


Notes:- (Vrishabha Lagna). The Moon in sign 
Meena and Mars aspects it from the 8th house (V. 3178- 
3179). Jamitra-the 7th. house lord is in the 8th house i.e. 
in the 2nd from 7th, so the second from the 8th, is the 
9th house (Makara) which is occupied by Venus is the 


Arudha System of Prediction 107 


Arudha Pada of the 7th house. (For Krura signs-refer 
author’s book “Navamsa & Nadi Astrology” pages 230- 
231). 


D.K. (2) p. 95. Vs. 139-140. 


wfarest urd wiftast esft an 
wares Td Wd ae fatafesta 


Meaning : 


“Should (1) The Dara-Arudha Pada contains a ma- 
lefic or (2) the 7th lord is in the 2nd house or (3) a ma- 
lefic occupies the 9th house loss of wife be foretold.” 


Verse 140:- mars frases 
yesaat ara frtfard 
Sard WIS ge 
wear Waehl BATH 
Meaning : 
“The learned in astrology declare, there will be loss 
(death) of wife, if (a) the 7th lord is in the 6th house or 
in debility or in combust or is aspected by a malefic or 


(b) if the 7th house is related to a malefic planet by as- 
pect or association.” 


D.K. (2) p. 235 - Vs 1708-1709-1710:- 


aReent sid ast eA 1170811 


ghefas a cea stat oftaa 
aRrecudl wid Aeaigeat yt 1170911 


ahead Galt: vata aaarar 
Meaning :- Tula Lagna :- 


“Jupiter should be the ruler of the Arudha Pada of 


108 Dara (Kalatra-Bharya) Pada 


the 7th house, and without a malefic aspect, Mars (7th 
lord) should be in Shobhana Nadiamsa as a result, the 
native’s spouse will be chaste and devoted to him.” 


“Tf Jupiter becomes the lord of the Arudha Pada of 
the 7th house, while Venus is in Mohan Nadiamsa, the 
native will have two wives and will obtain virtuous 
son/s. Native’s father will have one wife.” 


Notes:- D.K. (2) p. 238 V- 1737 
D.K. (2) p 238-V 1736. 


The 7th house lord Mars is in the 11th house i.e. in 
the 5th from the 7th; so the 5th from 11th is the 3rd house- 
Dhanus whose lord is Jupiter. The ruler of the Arudha 
Pada of the 7th house is Jupiter. 


D.K. (2) p.17 : V-2866:- 

Srecrtrs site cabcaret witetfard 

Vaan Tad faa YEA 2866 

eH aes We WaT, 
Meaning :- , 


“Jupiter getting the lordship of the Arudha Pada 
of the 7th house, being in aspect of Saturn and obtain- 


Arudha System of Prediction 109 


ing Kataka Navamsa will give a little darkish spouse 
who will bring prosperity after marriage. He will be 
ever blessed with mercy of goddess Laxmi and quad- 
rupeds and grain. 


Deva Keralam (1) p 120 V 1317:- 

aRrachrama ceraats ferg:1 

ane arated afcareatrea arg” 
Meaning :- 


“The birth sign of the native’s spouse could be a 
trime from native’s Dara-arudha Rasii.e. (Tula) or a trine 
with reference to Navamsa rasi occupied by the 7th lord 


i.e. the Sun's. 

SUN 
ace MERC MOON 
VENUS RAHU 


Notes: Kumbha Lagna.: 

In the chart, 7th lord the Sun is in Kanya, 2nd 
place from the 7th; so the second place from Kanya i.e. 
sign Tula is the Arudha Pada of the 7th house (Dara 
Arudha). 


Tula-Mithuna or Kumbha-birth sign of spouse. 


Navamsa sign of the Sun is not stated in the 


110 Dara (Kalatra-Bharya) Pada 


text suppose, the Sun is in Simha Navamsa in Sign 


Kanya. 


_Simha-Mesha or Dhanus-birth sign of spouse. 


Ref Verses:-1226 
1228 
1234 


_ 1241 


1280 
1271 


Saturn in 5th from the Sun (Kanya); 
Mercury in the 9th house; 


Venus and Jupiter in the 10th 
house; 


The Moon and Rahu in the 8th 
house; 


Mars in the 10th house. 


Jupiter-Venus and Mars in the 10th 
house. 


Chapter IX 
Bhagya (Pitru) Pada 


Bhrugu Nadi p. 244 :- 


qaesre wa argahnftafsart 
CRIA LS CAMARA || 


Meaning :- 


“If the Arudha Pada of the 9th house falls in 
the ascendant, there is an increasing Bhagya- 
Yoga. The native is a devotee of Lord Vishnu and 
Shiva. He also worships Gods and respects the Brah- 
mins. 


Bhrugu Nadi. p. 347:- 


frarsend Ga arerae Valter 

arevat woraer fagetet + fae 

Tatra fry maga dorareaagal 

aeTaeaIa aerate a Slate 
Meaning :- 


“Tf the Sun occupying Kalakuta Nadiamsa is pos- 
ited in the Arudha Pada of the 9th house, aspected by 
Saturn, the native born in Varuni Nadiamsa (Ascendant) 
has no happiness from father. His father a devotee of 
Lord Vishnu observes rituals of Vaishnava, having very 


112° :  Bhagya (Pitru) Pada 


little luck and money, will die early (i.e. during the 
childhood of the native). 


Bhrugu Nadi p. 473:- 


WARES FIA STINT wast 
aria ga cach case: 


Meaning :- 


“If the 9th house Arudha Pada falls either in 
Mithuna or Kanya sign, the native earns wealth by busi- 
ness, trade etc. The Sun in addition occupies Kanya 
Navamsa (in any sign) the native lives by trading in 
gold.” 


Bhrugu Nadi. p. 25:- 


Tereed sid <tatqarrar fra 
Tafa fresrera caesar 
araswig¢@ar art weaaafa araarq 
wer waisra crit aysrafiasn 


Meaning :- 


“Tf Jupiter occupies the 9th house Arudha Pada the 
father is long lived. Native’s father is a worshipper of 
Lord shiva and is also a devotee of other gods‘and re- 
spects Brahmins. The father gets less happiness in 
native's childhood. In the middle life the father 
is fortunate and passionate. He is well known in the 
ruling class, is of renouncing nature and loved by kins- 
men. 


D.K. (2) P. 178. V 1040. 


avaree waist ard ysantadl 
WR Jeary a wafiq: Faq 


Arudha System of Prediction 113 
Meaning :- Mithuna Lagna:- 


“The lord of the 2nd house, the Moon is posited in 
the Arudha Pada of the 9th house, and the 9th house 
has a benefic, this will cause in the native’s Ist dasa 
gains of lands and houses to his father.” 


Bhrugu Nadi p. 104:- 


waTSS Text carmmferar 
attracts smerattsary 
ala Gaye dared Yarra 


Meaning - 


“If Jupiter is posited is the Arudha Pada of the 9th 
_ house the native will construct temple and rest places, 
be righteous, will construct wells with steps, tanks etc., 
lives in the colony of Brahmins and in old age be a lead- 
ing farmer due to his son.” . 


Bhrugu Nadi p. 303:- 


anareetd yr fara fret 
watt Rarer forward satasad|! 
aq memfaradt figag qalfaa:| 
aera ar wart RefsAry! 


Meaning:- 


“Tf Venus occupies the Arudha Pada of the 9th 
house, the native’s father has longlife and is happy . 
His father is a devotee of Lord Shiva and at times of 
Lord Vishnu. The father has trust in Gods and Brah- 
mins and has happiness from his parents (i.e. native’s 
grand parents). The father has two wives and is enjoy- 
. ing life, liberal, sagacious and intellectual.” 


"414 Bhagya (Pitru) Pada 


Bhrugu Nadi: P. 246:- 
frarsemd we fasted 4 fare 
fagast wat fafaq pyar Fat | 
Meaning :- 


“If Saturn occupies the Arudha Pada of the 9th 
house the native has no happiness from his father (early 
death or separation from father). The paternal family 
has meagre wealth. He is praise-worthy is paternal-fam- 
ily and becomes rich. 


’ Bhrugu Nadi. p. 453:- 


Meaning:- _ 


“Should the 9th house Arudha Pada be occupied 
by Saturn, the native is libral, sagacious and intellec- 
tual. He is immersed in doing good deeds and he pos- 
sesses three vehicles.” 


Bhrugu Nadi p. 453 :- 


WAST FR AG FAH 
Saar wy figs saracaqi 


Meaning:- 


“Should the 9th house Arudha Pada be occupied 
‘by Saturn, the native will take to ascetism under ca- 
lamities. If this Saturn is posited in trine position to sign 
Kanya (i.e. Makara and Vrishabha) the native’s father 
will be serious in health some time.” 


Bhrugu Nadi, p. 454:- 


Arudha System of Prediction 115 


ware daar fagradt fags | 
SIRS esCCUMINCM IME MERGE COT 
Meaning:- 


“The trine sign from the Arudha pada of the 9th 
house is the birth sign of the father, so say the learned 
men. Father’s death will take place in the Dasa of 
the 4th Rasi Lord counted from the Arudha Pada 
sign.” 


Bhrugu Nadi, p. 454:- 
SSS UKE SURRGGAAM| 
Meaning:- 
“If the 9th house Arudha Pada is occupied by Rahu, 


the native’s father will get a virtuous son from the sec- 
ond wife.” 


Notes:- In example chart (E.C. No. 1) the Arudha 
Pada of the 9th house falls in Makara, the 7th house, 
which is occupied by Rahu. The author is the son from 
the second wife of his father. 


Deva Keralam (1) p. 29. V. 267-268. 


wrarestyt at wast wEet 
ase yearn carpi fra 
meric fers TACT 


Meaning:- 


“If the Arudha Pada of the 9th house is occupied 
by Saturn in own house (Kumbha) in Navamsa 
(Makara) the father of the native will be inwardly given 
to anger be (out worldly) pleased and bea miser, help- 


116 Bhagya (Pitru) Pada 
ful to others, be somewhat talkative and religiously 
disposed.” 


Dhanutr Lagna:- The 9th Lord the Sun is in Vrisha- 
bha i.e. 10th from the 9th so 10th from Vrishabha is 
Kumbha - Bhagya -Arudha. 


D.K. (3) p. 187.V. 4494. 


aarectaa aa areca! 
WAM Wea Sar| 
Meaning:- Kanya Lagnam. 


“Tf Mars, the Lord of the Bhagya Arudha Pada is in 
_conjunction with the lord of the Karma - Arudha Pada, 
‘it causes a kind of Bhagya Yoga. i.e. one for prosperity. 

As a result the native undertakes the path of good deeds 
and good conduct and is an intellectual.” 


Notes: 

Ref. V. 4476 Mercury in Tula sign Tula Navamsa; 
V 4480 The 5th Jord Saturn is with Mars; 
V 4484 Venus is in the 11th house from Mercury © 


V 4492 Satrun in 9th from Mercury with Mars 
~~ * (ive. Mithuna) 


How beautifully Venkatesha has made use of con- 
junction of two Arudha Lords. In E.C. No.1 Bhagya 
Arudha Lord Saturn is aspected by Jupiter who is the 
Karma-Arudha Lord. ' 


Bhrugu Nadi, p. 151. 
ara ae ceafreag var 
wi Sat ye By gat 


Arudha System of Prediction 117 


Wer weed wie ae dear 
Tecan wet wea ag ara 


Meaning:- 


“Should Mercury be the Lord of the Arudha 
Pada of the 9th house, the native will spend his life in 
writing (books etc). In addition, if the Sun is aspected 
by or associated with Mars, he will be happy through 
influence of lower castes. His father will be very happy 
by association with royal classes. He will be passion- 
ate and will have little happiness in his childhood 
but he will enjoy good comforts etc in middle 


n” 


age. 


Bhrugu Nadi, p. 103:- 


mea safe armies atau asta 
Meaning;- 


“Tf Jupiter is the Lord of the 9th house Arudha Pada, 
the native will excel in writing and studies, will be ami- 
able, will be expert in writing books; will be well-known 
in royal circles; His name is famous in many countries; 
is wise, brave and intelligent; enjoyes results of (Raja) 
yoga in his middle age and lives happily in a small 
kingdom.” 


Bhrugu Nadi:- p. 6: 


arrested ae satay vie: aafaq amit 
TTR waar ara: | 


\ 


118 Bhagya (Pitru) Pada 


sree feat fasted: 
TARTAR: ata wgarstetrary || 


Meaning:- 


“Should Saturn be the Lord of the 9th house Arudha 
Pada, the native born will sometimes behave like an 
adult (strict) and sometimes forgiving. He will be oblig- 
ing others, ‘religiously disposed and his speech will be 
of same nature (religious); always giving grains and 
alms, be in company of devotees of Lord Vishnu; be 
expert in his vocation, well-to-do and opposing en- 
emy activities.” 


D.K. (1) p. 88 Verse 958:- 


ararsafraitacenn a war 
wr warsafs: waft aeAraa | 
Meaning:- | 


“In the dasa of Navamsa dispositor (Mercury) of 
the Lord of the Bhagya-Arudha Pada (Venus) ie. in the 
first dasa the native’s as well as his father’s prosperity 
will increase.” 


Tula Lagna:- 
i 
; ae 
q 


Ox 


MOON p 
RAHU 


Arudha System of Prediction 119 


Notes:- Tula Lagna:- 


The Lord of Bhagya Rasi-Mercury is in sign Simha 
i.e. in the 3rd place fromit, so, the 3rd place from Simha 
is Tula (Bhagya-Arudha-Pada) whose lord Venus is in 
sign Simha (Mithuna Navamsa)-Navamsa Lord is Mer- 


cury. 

Ref. V. 950 Venus in 11th house - in Bhagya-amsa 
i.e. Mithuna Navamsa with Mercury. 

V. 848, 877, 893 


Ref. V. 860. The Moon is in Vrischika (debilitated) 
in Makara/Kumbha Navamsa Jyesta Star whose lord 
is Mercury. So, Mercury’s Dasa is the first Dasa. Janma- 
Dasa. 


D.K. (3) p. 268-V 5624-25:- 


wat Teage svar qaraanil! 

arr a fant aetagaa:| 

emer WW ard yt wnftaferrar 
Meaning:- , 

“The Lord of the ascendant in the Arudha Pada of 
the 9th house in aspect to Jupiter will produce much 
prosperity. Moreover, the native will be endowed with 
coborns (brother and sister) and long lived parents. He 


will be highly fortunate after 16th year of his life and 
also will find wealth hidden under the ground.” 


D.K. (3) p. 209-V. 4816:- . 
ware fexart api aera: 
Sa Yr HATTA 


120 : Bhagya (Pitru) Pada 


Meaning:- 


The Arudha Pada of the 9th house — sieupied 
by Venus in Indra Nadiamsa denotes birth in a pros- 
perous family. The native will enjoy pleasures and he 
will have two wives. 


D.K. (1) p. 93-V. 1026 :- 


Saat Fey wrared Fg wa 
frontage Srougeian Faq 


“In Indra yoga, if the Tula Lagna becores the 
Bhagya-Arudha Pada, the native’s parents will be long- 
lived, so also his elder brother be long-lived 


D.K. (1) p. 212-V.2365:- . 
wrens art qftah crag 
Wares wrea Wes qeerarq| 

Meaning:- ; 


Vrischika Lagna-Sumati Nadiamsa and the Moon 
in the first half of Navamsa. 


“If the ascendant sign Vrischika, it self becomes the 
9th house Arudha Pada (i.e. the Moon is placed in sign 
Meena), The native will enjoy much comforts and be 

happy in second dasa.” 


D.K. (3) p. 75-V. 2989-90. 
ararecrit tated ahaa 
way: Bek Faraarq| 

Meaning: Kanya Lagna 


-“The Lord of the 9th house Arudha Pada occupy- 
ing Kataka Navamasa is exalted and conjoined with 


Arudha System of Prediction 121 


Venus, the native is wealthy right from his birth. He 
will be highly fortunate.” 


D.K. (3) p. 49 V. 2665. 


araree wea ara aaq weal 
wagtid ware amar, aiftar, wag 


Meaning:- Dhanur Lagna Champaka Nadiamsa. 


“One born in Dhanur Lagna will prosper and be 
famous from such number of years denoted by S.A.V 
(Samadaya-ashtakavarga) bindus in the Bhagya-Arudha 
sign.” 


Dhanae Lagna | 


WAN 


= 
Ole 


Notes:- There is some text variation. In G.O.M.L. 
edition in the foot note 'waafa' is suggested for‘ sr taraq’ 
Meaning S.A.V. bindus in the Bhagya-Arudha sign. 


Ref. Verses. 2654, 2660, 2680, 2683, 2730, and 2733. 
D.K. (3). 


Lagna lord Jupiter is in the 1th house, so the 11th 
from the 11th is the Lagna -Arudha Pada (sign Simha). 
Bhagya Lord, the Sun is in the 11th house i.e. in the 3rd 


122 Bhagya (Pitru) Pada 


house from Bhagya sign so the 3rd from the 11th is the 
ascendant — sign Dhanus is Bhagya-Arudha Pada. 


Here the Nadi author Venkatesh has considered 
the number of S.A.V. bindus obtained by the Arudha 
Pada-Sign-of the 9th house i.e. of sign Dhanus. Simi- 
larly, the number of S.A.V bindus in the remaining 
eleven Bhava-Arudha signs be made use of, for predic- 
tive purposes. (Ref “Ashtakaverga” by Patel & Aiyar. 
Chap XIV- vs. 21,31,32 etc) This rule can be apiece to 
any ascendent. 


In E.C.1, Bhagya Arudha sign is Makara (the 7th 
house). The lord of the 9th house Jupiter is in the 12th 
from the 9th i.e. in the 8th house, so the 12th from the 
8th house i.e. the 7th house is Bhagya Arudha, which 
obtains 19 S.A.V Bindus. The scribe started earning 
even during college studies from the 19th year (by giv- 
ing tuitions). 


Chapter X 
Mixed 
VIKRAMA (BHRATRU) PADA 
Deva Keralam (3) p. 24. Vs. 2332-33. 


famnreel sia difat usagi 
shurseat det aerat qaqa: | 
WARS TRI ASMA | 


Meaning :- 


“Jupiter in the Arudha Pada of the 3rd. house in 
aspect to or in association with Rahu, and Mercury in 
Harina Nadiamsa-this yoga will make one truthful, firm | 
in nature and under-takings. He will incur difficulties 
through the eldest brother as well as younger 
coborn. é 


124 Vikrama (Bhratru) Pada 


Simha Lagna 

Ref. V/s 2312 The Sun in Vrischika; 
2315 Mars in Vrischika 
2324 Jupiter aspects the Sun 


2331 The Moon in Kanya; Mercury in 
Vrishabha and Venus in Mesha 


.2332 Satrun in Meena. 


Notes:- In the above chart, the lord of the 3rd house 
(Venus) is in sign Mesha i.e. in the 7th from his posi- 
tion. Rule: when the Pada falls in the 7th house, the 
4th from the original house Tula, so the 4th from that 
sign is the Arudha Pada of the 3rd house, is occupied 
by Jupiter, aspected by Rahu from the 10th house. 
(Makara sign). 


Bhrugu Nadi:- 

MITA Wet ares WaT! 

aM aad a deiqesigad saa 
Meaning:- 


“Tf the Arudha Pada of the 3rd house has a malefic 
planet, the result of the 3rd house (i.e. brother) is poor, 
if Mars is not powerful, the native will have one long- 
living brother.” 


Bhrugu Nadi:-P. 436:- 

famrecl a ageTaTege 

Seager APrisrafsta: 1! 
Meaning:- 


“Should Mars occupy the Arudha Pada of the 3rd 


Arudha System of Prediction 125 


house, the native will have two younger brothers. He 
will have no elder brother and no sisters (elder or 
younger). 


Bhrugu Nadi:- p. 133:- 

dareet wel ade a fred 

ater: feaga fargqy:i 

erent sar yea arate 

sree Ugdad wat decane 

TIS AIA MIAH Aad 
Meaning:- 


“Should Rahu occupy the Arudha Pada of the 3rd 
house the native has no brother. He has many sisters, 
two or three of them have long life. The elect one is 
well ornamented (is rich) and is very lucky. One sister 
is a widow. Another sister has little luck. Such is the 
result of the 3rd house.” 


Bhrugu Nadi:- p. 12:- 

qaeed ad frgdet a fred 
wareram at assed fafaferdn 
aH ah frat steagqabrar faa 


Meaning:- 


“Should Ketu be posited in the Arudha Pada of 
the 3rd house (A3) the native has no happiness 
from father. Mars in the 9th from the ascendant and 
Ketu in the 9th from the Moon will cause death of 
father in the year of birth of child (i.e. in the very first 

year). The father has Alpa-Ayu. 


Bhrugu Nadi:- p. 86:- 


126 Vikrama (Bhratru) Pada 
ored Hq Va wigan fatafexiq 
sree TT Wad WAKA 
Meaning:- 
“If the Arudha pada of the 3rd house is occupied 
by Ketu, trouble through brother be indicated. If the 


Arudha Pada of the 3rd house be occupied by Venus 
there will be one long-living younger brother.” 


Bhrugu Nadi:- p. 13:- 
armed hq Wah waded 4 faa 
weafeagen ahaa feat 
we wet wares ae Wisc 
Tea ates aS we vaqI 
Meaning:- sas 
“If Ketu occupies the Arudha Pada of the 3rd house 
the subject has no happiness of brothers. He has 
one sister having long life, but in other’s view no 
brother. In this ease if Mars is very powerful there is 


death of brother/s. This result preva) in Nadis of all 
planets.” 


Bhrugu Nadi:-p. 486:- 


fami del ca ceed 
SES UPTayd searg@faetary || 


Meaning:- 
“Native has no younger brother/s if :- 
(i) “Saturn occupies the Arudha Pada of the 3rd house; 


(ii) Mercury being the Lord of the 3rd house is pos- 
ited in the 8th house in company of the Sun. 


Arudha System of Prediction 127 


-Notes:- This verse is applicable to Mesha and 
Kataka ascendants. 


Bhrugu Nadi:- p. 324:- 


areata at oath 
aqaga sires Taagasea aq 
afl gTATgeL era: 

ame weqd oi: agdheafadrart 


Meaning:- 


“Tf the Lord of the Arudha Pada of the 3rd house is: 
in Kendra (1st. 4th,7th or 10th house) the native’s 
coborn’s die early. He has either eight or nine brethren. 
Two sisters have longlife and the rest will die. If Rahu 
is in the 11th house from the aseendant the native is 
without brother’s happiness (11th house is ine house 
of elder coborns). 


MATRU (SUKHA) PADA: 
Bhrugu Nadi: p 246:- 
AMTeotd Ye Aga Aeqay! 
Aga wea a MN 
Meaning:- 


“Té Venus occupies the Arudh Pada of the 4th house, 
the native’s maternal family is very happy and very rich 
(prosperous). He is not inheriting any property, wealth 
etc. from paternal family.” 


Bharugu Nadi p. 127:- 


128 Vikrama (Bhratru) Pada 


gare ax aed afer! 
mast aa ued TER aa AA 
Taearath Talat we aed! 
Meaning:- 
“If the Moon occupies the 4th house Arudha Pada 
the native's mother dies in his childhood. When Saturn 
transits the sign occupied by the lord of the 11th house, 


death of the mother may be expected. This result is of 
universal application to all Nadis.” 


Bhrugu Nadi—p. 324:- 


apeariaa ay ysl yaad 
see Weds TT AAA 
Tat qradt then fefaq méeazaerem 
Ufaaa YA Mest WATE 


Meaning:- 


“Tf the Arudha Pada of the 4th house is aspected 
by Jupiter and the lord of the 4th house Mars, in asso- 
ciation with a benefic planet obtains a benefic Navamsa, 
the native's mother lives upto middle age (between 36 
to 72 years). The native’s mother is virtuous, amiable 
born in somewhat prosperous family, attached to her 
husband, pious (auspicious), religious minded but 
likely to give births to dead children.” 


Deva Keralam (1) p. 55 - Vs. 555-56-57. 
arreé Garist art efraafadi 
aM ste wate ATA qaTar 


aes: TeTaG asa 
Wier Wears: MIE 


Arudha System of Prediction 129 
Meaning:- . 


“The 4th house lord Mars is Chaparudha (occupy- 
ing sign Dhanus as 4th house Arudha Pada), Saturn is 
placed in Kumbha and Jupiter in Dhanus denote a very 
fortunate maternal grand father. The said maternal 
grand father will have numerous children, much wealth 
own brothers and sisters (of the same mother) will ac- 
quire fame in royal service and will have men-borne 
conveyances.” 


Wad 


Gad 


DX 


Ref Verses:- 562 The Sun and Mercury in 
conjunction 


550 Saturn and Mars in conjunction 
570 Venus in Makara 

572 The Moon and Ketu in Meena. 
556 Jupiter in Dhanus. 


\ 


Makara Lagna—The lord of the 4th house is Mars 
in the 2nd house i.e. in the 11th house from Mesha; so 
the 11th house from the 2nd house is Dhanus in the 
12th house which is Arudha Pada of the 4th house. 
(occupied by Jupiter). The house of maternal grand- - 


130 Vikrama (Bhratru) Pada . 


father is the 9th house from the 4th house i.e. the 12th 
house. 


KARMA PADA:- 
Deva Keralam (3) p. 74 Vs. 2975 - 76:- 


waSSTy A HA Woof 
aetna a att yeTSTar|| 
Tag Tet Heit Water 
SIM wire aapfacari 


Meaning:- Kataka Lagna:- 


“With the 10th lord (Mars) aspected by Jupiter as 
the Arudha Pada of the 10th house is occupied by Sat- 
urn, the native will face obstacles to his good deeds 
and worship. He will be irascible and will acquire hid- © 
den wealth.” 


“For one born in Kataka ascendant with Kumbha 
Navamsa, and Jupiter in sign Kataka will give hidden 
wealth, costly ornaments and a physique prone to 
windy disorders.” 


Notes:- wAfeete"’- text is corrected by G.O.MLL. 
Deva Keralam (1) p. 231 Va 2599, 
paeend GR aT Prefer 
foraneicnret farratranestd | 
Meaning:- 


“The native will be exceedingly wealthy in the 3rd 
dasa, if the Moon is posited in the Arudha Pada of the 
10th house and also in aspect to the lord of the birth 
sign.” 


Arudha System of Prediction 131 


Notes: Vrishabha lagna —the 10th Jord Saturn is in 
the 7th house i.e. in the 10th place from it so the 10th 
place from the 7th is the 4th house-the Karma Arudha 
Pada which is occupied by the Moon. 'It is also aspected 
by the Lagna lord Venus. Ref. Vs 2578, 2599. 


Deva Keralam:- (1) p. 73-V. 767:- 


auted yids aig friferd 
arena fare fatatsara 


Meaning: - 


“One will have special attainment in the begnning 
and ending parts of the 11th Rasi dasa, if the Arudha 
Pada of the 10th house is in aspect to benefics as well 
as an aspect of the 9th lord.” 


Bhrugu Nadi p. 13:- 

MMSST A YAR aa Bleerd! 

THATS Tad WIATATCSANS FAT 

Usa Was BRT ART ASAI 
Meaning:- 


“Tf the Arudha Pada of the 11th house (A171) falls in 
the ascendant, in company with the lord of the 5th 
house, a kind of Raja yoga is formed. The native be- 
comes a royal dignity or equal to that. One born under 
this Raja yoga is brave and strong-minded. 


VYAYA PADA:- 

Deva Keralam (3) p. 24 Vs. 2334 -2335¥2:- 
ara efor cared YTS 
ferry wader wae 


132 Vikrama (Bhratru) Pada 
Meaning:- 


“The lord of the 12th house in Harina Nadiamsa 
while the Arudha Pada of the 12th house is occupied 
by a benefic planet (Venus) one born in a fixed sign as- 
cending will spend his money for charitable purposes.” 


Deva Keralam (3) p. 24. V.2335%-2336:- 
smears: Cag Srared Pye 


Shonen a frags: Get! 
ASTHIAATA MSAATEASTL || 


Meaning: 


“If the Arudha Pada of the 12th house is occupied 
by Venus and Mercury occupies Harina Nadiamsa the 
native will have religious attainments of a very high 
order. He will worship Lord Shiva and be happy. He 
will construct tanks, parks and will donate houses and 
lands to others”. 


Deva Keralam (3) p. 77 verse 3016:- 


PRATAS AAAS Wiad WSC | 
aR ale Teel Ahad Pha 


Meaning:- Kataka Lagan 


“Tf the Arudha Pada of the 12th house counted from 
the Moon is occupied by a malefic planet, the native 
will not be happy in the other world (i.e. after death). If 
Jupiter aspects the said sign, some happiness will be 
there.” 


Notes: 


Ref. Chart under Putra Pada D.K. (3) p. 74. Vs 2969- 
2970. 


Arudha System of Prediction 133 
——— 


The 12th from Moon is the 9th house (Meena) whose _ 
lord Jupiter is in the ascendant i.e. in‘the 5th from the": 
- 9th; so the 5th from the Lagna will be the 5th house 
‘(Vrischika) will be Vyaya Arudha Pada from the oS 
‘which is occupied by Rahu. 


The author Venkatesha takes into account Arudha: 
from Chandra Lagna also: This is a novel point to be © 
thought of. Similarly from Haar, Sree should be 
looked into. 


