SARAL 
JYOTISH 


Index 


Topics Page No. 
1. ZODIAC, SIGNS AND PLANETS 2 
2. PLANETS & THEIR CHARACTERISTICS 9 
3. CHARACTERISTICS OF EACH SIGN 40 
4. HOUSES: THEIR SIGNIFICATIONS & 

SIGNIFICATORS 57 
5. CASTING OF HOROSCOPE 64 
6. DASA-PADDATI& PREDICTIONS 88 
7. DIVISIONAL CHARTS 108 
8. PLANETS INDIFFERENT HOUSES : PREDICTION 147 
9. RECTIFICATION OF BIRTH TIME 234 
10. SUB- PLANETS 239 
11. PLANETARY COMBINATIONS OR YOGAS 244 
12. TRANSIT OF PLANETS 261 
13. ELECTIONAL ASTROLOGY — MUHURTA 281 


. MATCHING OF HOROSCOPE 288 


1. ZODIAC, SIGNS AND PLANETS 


Celestial System 


The mother earth rotates on its axis once in 24 hrs and revolves 
around the Sun in 365.2422 days. Various planets like 
Mercury, Venus, Mars, Jupiter & Saturn also revolve around 
the Sun (Dig 1.). These planets have satelites revolving round 
them. Earth has one satellite called Moon revolving around it. 
The complete Solar system also revolved around the centre 
of our Galaxy "Milky Way" and makes one round in little hrs 
than 26000 years. The Galaxy has many solar systems with 
different Suns at their centres. Galaxy is shaped like two 
saucers placed one over the other and our solar system is 
revolving around it on one side of it. 


As earth revolves around the Sun, we see from earth stars 
around us in the sky. On account of motion of Earth around 
the Sun, the Sun appears to move round the stars once ina 
year. The line along which the Sun moves is called the Ecliptic. 
The broad band or belt in the heaven extending 9° on either 
side of the Ecliptic is known as Zodiac. The Ecliptic passes 
through centre of zodiac longitudinally. The zodiac revolves 
once in a day on its axis from east to west. 


The zodiac is divided into twelve equal parts, for purpose of 
astrology, called signs, which are named after the imaginary 


figures which the stars form in each division. Since zodiac 
consists of 360°, each sign will consist of 360°/12=30°. The 
signs are known as Rasis. 


Our sages identified twelve group of stars seperated 
appox.30 each in the 360 celestial sphere. Thus we have 
12 Rashis. They divided the celestial sphere in 12 parts 
because moon moves around the earth 12 times during the 
time earth revolved round the Sun. 


Nakshatra 


Looking at the daily movement of Moon, sages also identified 
27 constellations around the celestial called Ashwini, Barni 
etc. They are seperated by 360 /27= 13 20'. Every day Moon 
crosses over one constellation.Start of Ashwini match with 
the start of first sign Aries. 


From earth we see a celestial body passing over a sign, this 
helps us know the location of that body. 


In astronomy we define planet as a celestial body which 
revolved round the Sun and a body which revolves around a 
planet is called a satellite. Sun is termed as a star. 


In astrology planet is defined differently. Since man lives on 
earth and we want to studies effect of celestial bodies on 
human being, we study the motion of celestial bodies with 
respect to earth i.e. we take earth in centre and measure 
position of bodies around it, including. Sun, Moon and other 
planets. To measure the position we take far placed stars as 


fixed and use them to know the coordinates/position of the 
other celestial bodies. In astrology we define a planet an any 
celestial body revolving round the earth; thus Sun & Moon 
are consider as planets for the purpose of astrology. 


What is Rahu/ Ketu 


Earth revolves round the sun ina plane called Ecliptic. Moon 
revlolves round the earth in a different plane which intersects 
ecliptic in a line. The point from where Moon seems to be 
going up is called Rahu & the point where Moon seems to be 
going down is called Ketu. These are only imaginary point but 
have special importance became their position define the 
eclipse - Solar or lunar. If Moon earth & Sun are in line with 
Rahu or Ketu an eclipse is formed. Since eclipse plays an 
important role an earth and in astrology too, Rahu/Ketu are 
important and are given the status of planets. 


How the planets get Retrograde 


The plants including earth move in one direction - anti 
Clockwise around the sun. When the planet and the earth are 
on the same side of the sun, the planet sems to be moving in 
the opposite direction from earth. This motion is called 
retrogression of planet. 


The names of different planets according to the Indian and 
western system and their symbols are as under: 


PLANETS 
Indian name Western name 
Ravi or Surya Sun 
Chandra Moon 
Mangal or Kuja Mars 
Budha Mercury 
Guru or Brahaspati Jupiter 
Shukra Venus 
Sani Saturn 


Dragon's Head 


$ 
») 

3 
f° 
2h 
g 
h 
$d 
UV 


Dragon's Tail 


w 
al 


Uranus 
Neptune 
Pluto 


is 


ae) 


On account of motion of Earth around the Sun, the Sun appears 
to move round the stars once ina year. The line along which 
the Sun moves is called the Ecliptic. The broad band or belt 
in the heaven extending 9° on either side of the Ecliptic is 
known as Zodiac. The Ecliptic passes through centre of zodiac 
longitudinally. The zodiac revolves once in a day on its axis 
from east to west. 


The zodiac is divided into twelve equal parts, for purpose of 
astrology, called signs, which are named after the imaginary 
figures which the stars form in each division. Since zodiac 
consists of 360°, each sign will consist of 360°/12=30°. The 
signs are known as Rasis. 


The twelve signs of Zodiac both in the Indian and western 
system and their symbols are as under: - 


Mesha Aries 
Vrishabha Taurus 
Mithuna Gemini 
Kark Cancer 
Simha Leo 
Kanya Virgo 
Tula Libra 
Vrishchik Scorpio 
Dhanu Sagittarius 


PaSARAHS 3 


1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 


Makar Capricorn 


Kumbha Aquarius 


RRaAxS 


Meena Pisces 


CONSTELLATIONS (NAKSHATRAS) 


If Zodiac is divided into 27 equal parts then each part will be 
of 360°/27= 13°20'. These 27 parts are known as 
constellations and each constellation measures 13°20! of arc 
of zodiac. Each constellation is further divided into four equal 
parts known as padas. Each Pada will measure 3°20". Each 
Rasi, therefore, contains 2 % constellation or 9 Padas. 


Thenames of 27 constellations with their longitudinal span in zodiac 
are as under: - 


S.N[Nakshtras___|Spaninthezodiac_| Sign 
3.__[Kritika [26 40-40? 
6._[Ardra______|66"40-80" 
B_[Pushya____|93°20-10640 | Cancer 
9._[Aslesha____[106"40-120" 

Capricom 
ee 


Signs and constellation are owned by planets, which are 
known as their lords. The lords of different signs and 
constellation are as under: - 


Signs and Lords 


Aries Mars 
Taurus Venus 
Gemini Mercury 
Cancer Moon 
Leo Sun 
Virgo Mercury 
Libra Venus 
Scorpio Mars 
Sagittarius Jupiter 
Capricom Saturn 
Aquarius Satur 
Pisces Jupiter 


22 SO Oe eS 


10. Magha 19. Moola 

11. Purva phalgum 20. Purva-ashada 

12. Utphalguni 21. Uttara-ashada 

13. Hasta 22. Sharavana 

14. Chitra 23. Dhanishta 

15. Swati 24. Satabhisha 

16. Visakha 25. Purvabhadrapada 

17. Anuradha 26.Uttara-bhadrapada 
Mercury} 9. Aslesha | 18. Jyeshta 27revatl 


2. PLANETS & THEIR 
CHARACTERISTICS 


SUN 


The Sun is the center of solar system. Its mean distance from 
earth is 14,96,00,000 kms. It is nearest to earth in January 
every year when it is 14,71,03,000 kms and farthest in July 
when its distance from earth is 15,21,06,000 kms. Its diameter 
is 13,92 000 kms (109.3 times of earth’s diameter), surface 
area is 6.087 x 10!?square kms. (1,20,000 times of earth’s 
surface area), Volume is 1.41 x 10!* cubic kms. (1,306,000 
times the earth’s volume) and mass is 1.99 x 10°°kgs. The 
average rotation of Sun in zodiac is 1° per day and therefore it 
takes exactly one year to go around the zodiac. 


Sun is a symbol of spirit. Itis considered as soul of kalapursha. 
Sun is considered as king of all planets. Possibly Sunday is 
kept as a holiday every where so that people are able to 
worship Sun on Sundays. Sun represents lord Brahma with 
his four faces causing the four seasons and four elements (Fire, 
Air, Earth, Water). The Sun offers us power of resistance and 
vitality. It rules our consciousness. It gives us force and will 
power and makes one determined and decisive. 


Sun is hot, dry, masculine and positive planet. He is god of 
Fire and fiery in nature. Sun is lord of direction East and 
governs ‘Grishma’ season (June-July). His color is orange. 
Sun represents father of the native, kings, the government and 


those in authority. In female horoscope, it represents husband. 


Sun gives the native honey colored eyes and large and round 
face. It makes color of body and hair lighter in shade and 
gives a bilious temperament. Parts of the body ruled by Sun 
are heart, head, brain, right eye in males and left eye in females, 
bones, mouth, spleen, throat, lungs, arteries, blood and its 
circulation. 


When Sun is afflicted it makes the native arrogant, mean, 
boastful, irritable, jealous, wavering temperament, angry, 
proud, immoral. 


When Sun is beneficial it gives boldness, commanding ability, 
fame, position, dignity, vitality, energy, happiness, royal 
appearance, optimism, power, success, good health, warmth, 
affection, good temperament, respect to elders, honour from 
government, wealth. 


Health: 


The diseases indicated by Sun are heart problems, epilepsy, 
cerebral, meningitis, aphasia, polypus, eye disease, high fever, 
baldness, low blood pressure, and sunstroke. 

Products: 


The products represented by Sun are rice, groundnut, 
coconut, almonds, chillies, myrobalans, wheat, lavender, 
saffron, gur, pungent taste juice, orange, asafoetida, 
cardamoms, poison, laurel, vermin, cedar, marigold, pod grains 
etc. 


10 


Animals : 


Sun represents all majestic animals like lion, boar, horse, and 
serpents. It also represents Lark, swan, nightingale and other 
singing birds. 

Abode: 

Sun represents places like mountains, forests, Shiva temples, 
fortress, government buildings, public offices like District 
Boards, panchayat etc. 


Precious metals & Gems: 


Gems represented by Sun are Gold, Copper and Ruby. Native 
whose lord of ascendant is Sun can wear the ring of Ruby in 
copper or gold in ring finger in the constellation of Sun. 


MOON 


The average distance between Earth and Moon is 3,84,400 
kms. Because of elliptical shape of the orbits of Sun and Moon, 
minimum and maximum distance between Earth and Moon is 
3,63,000 kms. and 4,06,000 kms respectively. The radius of 
moon is approx 1738 kms. (0.2725 times. The radius of earth) 
and mass of moon is 1/81.3 of the earth’s mass. In fact moon 
is a satellites of earth but in astrology it is considered as a 
planet because of its size and proximity to earth. The moon 
can be observed to cross any particular celestial meridian, 
every 27.32166 days, which is the sidereal period of Moon. 
The period between the one full moon and next full moon is 
29.5306 days which is also called lunar month. 


11 


Mythology: 


Moon is negative, giving changeable and plastic nature and 
rules over personality and form. Moon is considered as a 
mind of kalpurush. Moon is the queen of solar system. She is 
the Virgin Mary of the Roman Catholics and the mother of 
the Heavens. While the Sun pours spirit and life to all planetary 
bodies, the moon governs over the life of the beings on earth. 
She is the Luna (Diana), the Queen of the night. She is the 
Goddess and also a huntress. She governs chastity as well as 
fertility. 

Nature: 


Moon is acold, moist, feminine, changeable, receptive and 
negative planet. She is lord of North — West direction and 
governs Varsha Ritu (August— September). Moon is watery 
in nature. Her color is silvery white or sea — green. Her chief 
domain is over the mind, the sleep, and all the fruits of the 
earth and flowers. She rules over the multitude, the masses, 
travelling, female relatives, commerce, business, and such 
professions which deal in liquids. She rules over the place of 
residence. 

Physical Features: 

Moon gives the native corpulent body, white complexion, 
lovely eyes, black and thin hair, tender speech and mild temper. 
Parts of the body ruled by moon are left eye of the male and 
the right eye of the female, breasts, esophagus, stomach, uterus, 
ovaries, lymphatic, bladder, synovial fluid. Waxing moon rules 


12 


over the arteries, motor nerves and the muscles while the 
waning moon rules the veins, sensory nerves, sense organs 
and the glands. 


Effects: 


When Moon is afflicted she makes the native unfortunate, 
sick in infancy and old age, deformed, impulsive, over anxious, 
indecisive, rash, depressed, pessimistic. 


When Moon is beneficial she gives high position in public life, 
good family life, courtesy, amiable nature, easy — going and 
pleasing personality, timidness, magnetism, desire for wealth 
and worldly things, interest for psychic subjects and taste for 
all delicious fruits. 


Health 


The diseases indicated by moon are lunacy, eye-disease, 
paralysis, hysteria, epilepsy, colic, cough and cold, measles, 
intestinal problems, dyspepsia, hydrocele, diseases caused 
due to excess of drink, bronchitis, asthama, tumors, nervous 
debility, dysentery, cancer, typhoid. 

Products 

The products represented by moon are oranges, melon, white 
poppy, cucumber, palm, mushroom, algae, wintergreen. 
pumpkin, mercury, sugarcane, cabbage, cauliflower, lettuce, 
betel leaves, silver, salt, rice, cream, foreign liquor, fruit juice, 
pearl, curd, herbs that turn towards the moon. 


13 


Animals 


Moon represents animals like dog, cat, mouse, amphibious 
creatures, horse. She also represents goose, crab, duck, 
water- bird, tortoise, owl, and oyster. 


Abode 


Moon represents places like mountains, fortresses, ocean, 
river, place of residence etc. 


Metals & Gems : 


Precious Gems represented by moon are pearl and all white 
stones. Metals represented are Silver,tin, and other white 
metals. Native whose lord of ascendant is moon can wear the 
ring of these stones in silver in ring finger in the constellation of 
moon. 


MARS 


Mars is a red planet. It moves around the Sun at a mean 
distance approximately 1.52 times that of earth from Sun. It 
completes its orbit in 686.9804 mean earth solar days and 
spins on axis in 24 hours 39 minutes and 22.6689 secoiids. tt 
moves in its orbit at a mean velocity of 24.1 kms/ second. 
Mars has a volume of 1.62 x 10!! 


14 


d with naked eyes. In_ its _ orbit 
it travels at a speed of 48 km per second. Its mass is 0.054 
times that of earth’s mass, diameter is 4868 kms and density 
5.2 gms per cubic cms. Its sidereal time is 87.969 earth 
days. It has no satellite. It does not beyond 280 from Sun. 


Hindus regard Mercury as God Keshav, Narayan, Madhav 
etc. In other words it represents protective agency. It is a 
prince in planetary cabinet. So like a child it does not act 
independently and borrows the characteristics of the planet 
with which it is associated. 


Its chief domain is over mind, memory, intellect, intelligence, 
perception, knowledge, reason, fertility of resources, 
commerce and education, powers of speech and writing, ability 
for editing, art of painting and sculpture. It gives the person 
ready wit, an easy acquisition of and command of over many 
languages, taste for and competence in philosophy, 
mathematics and accountancy. It rules over central nervous 
system. It is a planet of intelligence and is responsible for 
retentive power and reproductive ability. It makes one 
talkative, witty and learned. 


Mercury is a variable, convertible, feminine, neutral and 
dualistic planet. Mercury is the lord of north direction and 


15 


governs ‘Sarad’ Ritu (October- November). Its color is green. 
It rules our business, correspondence, bookselling, hygiene, 
deities, food, literary pursuits, paper money, bank balance. 
Mercury is the chief governor for education and uncle. It is a 
planet of oration and speech. 


Mercury gives the native a green tint and native is full of veins. 
Native is pleasant in speech and fun loving. Native has long 
and red eyes and has well formed limbs. It makes the body 
tall and slender. Native is of average height with eyebrows 
curved with much hair. Parts of the body ruled by Mercury 
are nose, brain, hands, tongue, lungs and nervous system. It 
is also lord of skin. 


When Mercury is afflicted the native will be clever, cunning 
and mischievous, anonymous petition writer. His tongue and 
pen will work against those whom he does not like. He will 
be gambler, lir, conceited and showy person. He will be 
talkative, eccentric, unprincipled, inconsistent and boastful. 
He will work according to his whims. Native will have 
stammering speech, lack of memory and fluency, having too 
many occupations, propensity for lying, spreading scandals. 


When Mercury is beneficial it makes the native intelligent, 
having quick grasp and good retentive memory. It gives ability 
for oratory and for mastering many languages, increases mental 
ability and argumentative power. It gives power of enquiry 
into many subjects including literature, collecting every kind 
of information and enhances business ability. It gives intuitive 


16 


ability and native works with speed and accuracy and is 
successful in all enterprises. 


The diseases indicated by Mercury are insanity, mental 
aberration, loss of speech, impotency, defective tong"e, 
deafness, leucoderma, headaches, neuralgia, insomnia, 
giddiness, convulsions, hysteria, spasms etc. 


The products represented by Mercury are betel leaves, walnut, 
spinach, plants in general, nut tree, medlar, willow, quince, 
male fern, carraway, ghee, other oils, green color pulses, green 
colored clothes etc. 


Mercury represents animals like dog, goat, ape, weasel, ‘ox, 
parrot and ‘eptiles. 


Places represented by Mercury are universities, colleges, 
schools, all commercial centers, and fields for playing games 
and sports, ™nting places. 


Precious metals/gems represented by Mercury are bell's metal, 
quick silver, emerald, limestone. Nati” whose lord of 
ascendant is Mercury can wear the ring of emerald in silver/ 
£°]d in littl fine*r i"the constellation of Mercu”. 


JP TE 


The Jupiter '* mo“ mas*'ve of all the planets. It is larger than all 
other planets put together. Its distance from the Sun is 76, 97, 73, 940 
kms, sidereal period 11.86 earth years. The max radius of Jupiter is 
71350 kms (11.2 tim’s that of earth) and min. radius is 6600 kms (10.4 


17 


times that of earth’. I'is 317.8 times heavier ‘han earth: Itrotates on its 
own axis in ° hours 55 minu'es. Jupiter has 12 satellites. The ‘ourmain 
satellites are kn°wn as Io, E"ropa Ganymede and Callisto. It is next to 
Sun in size and orb and in brig.tness next to the Venus. 


Jupiter is a planet of expansion. It is also called Deva Guru. 
Jupiter is considered to be a teacher who removes the 
ignorance and darkness and offers wisdom by throwing light. 
It represents the “Sattvaguna” of the Hindus. It rules over 
man’s worldly possessions and fortunes and hence is called 
the Giver or Ruler of money. Jupiter represents social justice, 
religion and sincerity. In the olden days the physicians used to 
administer medicine in the hora of Jupiter. Nowadays doctors 
write Rx on prescription slip before prescribing any medicine. 
In fact it is a symbol of Jupiter and any doctor would like to 
take blessing of Jupiter before writing prescription. 


Jupiter is fiery, noble, benevolent, fruitful, masculine, jovial, 
buoyant. Jupiter is the lord of North-East direction and governs 
Hemanta Ritu (December and January). Its color is golden, 
purple or violet and rules over the metals tin, gold, topaz and 
platinum. Sweet and fragrant are the flowers of Jupiter. It is 
the lord of fi™nce *nd “ild'n. " governs ‘ducation, 
happiness, health, love and respect towar® el*rs d 
pr“eptors, ®°od morals and conduct, wealth, respect, 
reputation and charity etc. 


Jupiter gives the native golden complexion, br°’n e’’s a" 
hai" Jupiterns have good growth in youth, have muscular 
body due to outdoor games and become so stout that they 


18 


must be respected for their growth. Jupiterians always get the 
seats vacated for them even in crowd. Native has corpulent 
an‘tal' bod’ and ** wis’ and lear™*d. He has loud and heavy 
voice. Parts of the body ruled by Jupiter are liver, tumors, 
circulation of blood in arteries, fat in the body, adipose tissue, 
morbid growths, pleura of lungs, kidney, thigh, feet, right ear. 


When Jupiter is afflicted it makes native extremist, having 
extravagant ideas, careless, over optimistic, gambler, poor, 
unpopular, lavish. It gives false hopes, failure in speculation, 
worry through children, loss by relying on others, misjudgment, 
miscalculation etc. 

When Jupiter is beneficial it gives good health and longevity. 
Native is jovial, hopeful, buoyant, humane, and of broad — 
minded nature. It bestows worldly wisdom, good fortune, and 
dignity, social and moral success, prudence, progress and much 
expansion in all efforts. Rapid recoveries even from severe 
disease are offered. Native thinks properly, does his work 
ably and judges properly. Native uses fair means to earn 
money and never gets benefitted by loss of others. 


The diseases indicated by Jupiter are blood poisoning, liver 
complaints, flatulence, dyspepsia, hernia, skin disease, catarrh, 
dropsy, mucus in urine, abscesses, carbuncles, diabetes, 
eczema, vertigo etc. 


The products represented by Jupiter are all fat containing food 
products like butter, ghee etc, sweet flavored eatables like 
oranges, banana etc, big trees like peepal tree, rubber, yellow 


19 


colored flowers and vegetables, oak, elm, birch, figs, 
asparagus, beet, pinks, red roses, dog grass, apricots, gram, 
pulse etc. 


Jupiter represents animals like horse, ox, elephant, stag, and 
domestic animals. It also represents eagle, peacock, pheasant, 
whale, dolphin etc. 


Jupiter represents places like courts, pompous buildings, 
places where coronation and religious functions are 
conducted, temples, colleges, schools, legislative assembly 
etc. 


Precious metals and gems represented by Jupiter are gold, 
platinum, topaz and yellow saphire. Native whose lord of 
ascendant is Jupiter can wear the ring of yellow saphire in 
gold in index finger in the constellation of Jupiter. 


VENUS 


Venus revolves around the Sun in nearly a circular orbit. It’s 
mean distance from the Sun is 10.75 x 107 kms. The mean 
orbital velocity of Venus is approx 35 km. per second; its 
mass 1s 0.81 times that of earth, its diameter is 12100 kms, 
and density 5.1 gm/cm3. Its sidereal period is 224.7 earth 
days and its synodic period is 583.921 earth days. Venus 
sets after Sunset and rises before Sun rises. Venus is the 
brightest planet, which is due to the reflecting power of its 
atmosphere. For the observers on earth, Venus can never be 
more than 480 away from Sun. When Venus is 480 away from 
Sun and is the evening star, it can be seen in the sky for about 


20 


3 hours 12 minutes after sunset. 


While Jupiter is Deva Guru, Venus is considered as Asura 
Guru. Venus is considered a Goddess of love, marriage, beauty 
and comforts. It is called Mahalakshmi, wife of lord Vishnu. 
Venus is one-eyed. Since itrules all kinds of beauty, pleasure, 
passion etc, it is called by the Greeks Aphordite. It is the 
chief governor of wife. It gives immense taste and of the person 
born by day. It gives immense taste and fancy for all pleasure- 
giving and luxurious things. Intelligence coupled with an artistic 
taste and fineness is bestowed by Venus. It is also significator 
of vehicles and property in affluent area. Venus as called Kama, 
one’s passion. 


Venus is a feminine, warm, temperate and fruitful planet. Venus 
is the lord of direction South- East and governs Vasanta Ritu 
(April and May). Venus rules Yajur Veda. Its color is white, 
dark blue, lemon yellow. Itrules marriage, youthfulness, sexual 
pleasure, scents, flowers, ability to compose music and drama, 
inclination to take light and rich food. It also indicates the 
partner in business. 


Venus gives the native average height, plumpy body, round 
face with pimples, wheatish complexion, pleasing eyes, pleasing 
voice, sweet smile and curly hair. It gives attractive personality 
and sexual vitality. Native is the preceptor of demons. Parts 
of the body ruled by Venus are eyes, reproductive system, 
throat, chin, cheeks, kidneys, hair etc. 


When Venus is afflicted it gives deprived sexual tendencies, 


21 


immoral character, excessive drinking, number of marriages, 
loss of children, separation from beloved, mental aberrations, 
injuries, loss of money, sex scandals, loss of prestige. 


When Venus is beneficial it gives the native unperturbed and 
enjoyable career. It is sure to give continuos good luck even 
though person is not endowed with the intrinsic worth necessary 
for the attainment of it. Native is fond of company of opposite 
sex and is of artistic nature. Native may become successful 
musician or actor. 


The disease indicated by Venus are venereal disease including 
gonorrhea and syphilis, infection in eyes, skin diseases like 
eczema, leprosy, leucoderma, enlarged tonsils, Bright’s 
disease, renal glycosuria, cysts, swelling, goiter, irregularities 
in cataneria, uraemia, disease of ovaries, mucous disease, gout, 
anaemia and disease arising through the use of cosmetics or 
through over-indulgence in amusement, eating, drinking. 


The products represented by Venus are finished textile goods, 
silk and rayon products, fancy goods, electronics items, 
perfumery, toilets, photography, film, hosiery for ladies, 
confectionery, sandalwood oil, fruits, flowers, sugar, cars, 
ships, airplanes, petrol, pig tree, pomegranate, apple tree, 
damdelion, elder flowers, white poppy, goose bury, 
peppermint, cherry, chestnut, thyme, agaru, nutmeg, players. 


Venus represents animals like goat, panther, hart, bull. It also 
represents birds like dove, sparrow, and wren. 


Venus represents places like bedroom, cinema theatre, garden, 


22 


fountains, banquet hall, automobile industries, shipping yards, 
aerodromes, mines, glass manufacturing places, discotheque, 
red light areas. 


Precious metals and gems represented by Venus are platinum, 
white metal and silver diamond, beryl coral, jade, and 
alabaster. Native whose lord of ascendant is Venus can wear 
ring of diamond in platinum or gold in middle finger in the 
constellation of Venus. 


SATURN 


Saturn’s mean distance from earth is 14.11 x 108. The nearest 
distance of Saturn from Sun is 13.29x108 kms and farthest 
distance from Sun is 14.93x108 kms. It completes a revolution 
around the Sun in 29.46 years. The mass of Saturn is 95.14 
times that of earth, volume 743.7 times that of earth and its 
density is only 0.7 times that of water. Saturn has 10 satellites. 
The Titan and Lapetus are massive satellites of Saturn. Titan 
is about the same size as the planet Mercury. Its dia is 
4777kms. The dia of Lapetus is 1752 kms. Three concentric 
rings surround Saturn. These rings are separate and there is 
only black empty space in between any two rings, Saturn 
appears like a blue ball with 3 yellow rings. 

Saturn is called Yama because it is the chief governor of 
longevity. Saturn is the father of Gulika and Mandi. It is also 
called Neelan and lord Shiva. Itis said and be ‘Lame’. Saturn 
is son of Sun. Some people say that Saturn represents 
‘Brahma’. Saturn is the counterfeit of Jupiter as former destroys 


23 


while the latter applies pressures and expands. Saturn is also 
called St. Peter holding the keys of both Heaven and Hell. It 
rules over hard and laborious work as well as over responsible 
positions in life. Saturn is a planet of delay. 


Saturn is barren, binding, cold, constant, dry, defensive, hard, 
nervous and secretive planet. It is the lord of West direction 
and governs Shishir Ritu (February and march). Its color is 
blue, jet black and indigo. It is considered as an evil planet 
and it reigns over poverty, misfortune, death, unending 
problems, delays, hindrances, chronic and lingering diseases, 
old age etc. 


Saturn gives the native dark color, thin built, prominent veins, 
thick nails, protruding teeth, coarse and thick hair, long hands 
and feet. From the face native appears older then his actual 
age. Native is dirty, angry, dreadful, foolish, full of wrinkles 
and a talebearer. Native is merciless and melancholic. Saturn 
makes one a little deaf. 


Parts of the body represented by Saturn are the right ear, 
obstruction of bodily fluids, obstruction in urine and retention 
of waste materials, hardening of synovial membrane, teeth, 
bones, knees, spinal chord, hair and growth. 


Where Saturn is afflicted it causes delays, disappointment, 
disharmony, dispute, despondency, dejection, differences, 
distrust etc. It gives persistent bad luck, up-hill struggles, 
sorrows and disappointments. It makes the native drunkard, 
gambler, lazy and lethargic. 


24 


When Saturn is beneficial it gives good qualities like endurance, 
economy, thrift, patience, perseverance, power of retaining 
secrets, permanence, stability, self control, sense of duty 
towards God and man, accuracy, precaution in all matters. It 
develops in an individual truth, charity, power of meditation 
and concentration, sincerity, prudence, asceticism etc. 


The diseases indicated by Saturn are cancer, paralysis, 
sciatica, Bright’s disease, colds, deafness, tooth decay, 
diphtheria, insanity, rheumatism, asthma, consumption, 
defective speech, catarrh, gallstones, curvature of spine, 
hemorrhoids, asthma, gout, skin disease, fracture etc. 


The products represented by Saturn are kerosene, petrol, 
coal, mine ores, leather, hides, skin, wood, potato, black 
pulses, barley, rye, mustard oil, wine, black articles, plantain, 
ivy, hemp, hellebore, aconite, thistle, leguminous seeds. 


Saturn represents animals like cat, asses, hare, wolves, bear, 
crocodile, serpents and venomous creatures, buffaloes, 
camels. It also represents birds like eel, sea fish, bats and 
owls. 


Saturn represents places like hills, forests, deserts, caves, dens 
and old and ruined buildings, churches, temples, trenches, wells, 
stinking places, slum areas, dirty places tanning factories, bone 
factory etc. 


Precious gems/ metals represented by Saturn are blue 
sapphire, amethyst, iron, lead, steel and antimony. Native 
whose lord of ascendant is Saturn can wear the ring of blue 


22 


sapphire in gold in middle finger in the constellation of Saturn. 


RAHU AND KETU 


There are different names given to Rahu and Ketu like Nodes, 
Shadows, Head and Tail, Caput, Cauda etc. The Moon is a 
satellite of the earth revolving around it in an orbit inclined to 
that of the earth round the Sun at an angle of approximately 
50. The Moon completes its orbit round the earth in about a 
month crossing the orbit of earth twice in the same period, 
once when it goes from south to north and at another time 
while traveling from north to south. The ascending point is 
called ‘Rahu’ and descending point ‘Ketu’. These have 
retrograde motion in the zodiac at the rate of 19020" per year. 


There is a fundamental difference between Rahu and Ketu 
and the other planets. The other planets are bodies of physical 
mass having form, shape, color, gravity, atmosphere, motion 
etc. On the other hand Rahu and Ketu are two imaginary 
points in the heavens without mass, shape or form. They are 
the points of intersection of the apparent path of the Sun with 
the path of Moon. It has been established beyond doubt that 
Rahu and Ketu influence an individual’s life, at times more 
than other planets. Since they are in exact opposition to each 
other, their effect should be considered simultaneously. 


Rahu and Ketu give the effects of the lords of the signs they 
are in and also of those planets which are situated with them, 
not having much individual characteristics of their own. Rahu 
is known as Dragon’s head and Ketu as Dragon’s tail. Head 


26 


is forward looking while the tail represents the past. The Rahu 
represents the qualities to be developed and work to be done 
during the present incarnation and Ketu denotes the qualities 
during past lives and these indicate attitudes that come naturally 
to the native. They are classified as Karmic planets. 


According to Hindu astrology both Rahu and Ketu are malefic. 
Rahu is considered as ‘giver’ and Ketu the ‘taker’ and since 
giving and taking are results of former action, they may be 
considered as planets of ‘gains’ and losses’. Ketu is considered 
as a spiritual force causing salvation to human souls and Rahu 
is more earthly indicating mundane prosperity. The effects of 
the Nodes is not always evil, they are also productive and 
causing Raj yogas. By and large Nodes play a constructive 
role because after making the native pass through various 
difficult phases, they also enable him to progress spiritually. 
However, if the Nodes conjoin, Mars or Saturn without any 
benefic aspect, life is marked by misery, struggle and 
misunderstanding throughout. Rahu is also considered as a 
diplomat and Ketu a seer. Rahu and Ketu eclipse the Sun and 
Moon representing the soul and mind respectively. Hence they 
have a great influence on the soul’s liberation or rebirth. Rahu 
or Ketu within 2 degrees of the ascendant give an unusual 
type of personality and a very distinctive appearance. 

Rahu and Ketu signify one born in low caste, dissatisfied, 
fond of travelling, telling lie, harsh in speech, involved in 
unnatural sex. They also indicate change of residence, ill health, 
dual marriage, serpents, mosquitoes, insects, spices, southwest 


ZF 


direction etc. Part of the body represented by them are 
buttocks, intestinal tract. The diseases indicated by them are 
hiccups, insanity, intestinal problems, ulcer, gastric problems 
etc. The products represented by them are meat, wine, eggs, 
raddish, coconut, sacrifice of animal’s etc. 


Rahu has the properties of Saturn whereas ketu has the 
influence of Mars. Rahu is feminine. Its gem is Agate or 
Lapis luzzli. Rahu is said to resemble Saturn. Rahu governs 
paternal grandfather and maternal grandmother. Ketu is 
eunuch. Its gem is turquoise. Ketu is said to be conductive to 
liberation, Ketu is said to be similar to Mars in giving effects. 
Ketu rules maternal grandfather and paternal grandmother. 
Rahu represents the tall while Ketu represents the short 
persons. 


Uranus, Neptune and Pluto will not be discussed in this book 
as firstly these are very slow moving planets and secondly 
these are hardly considered by astrologers for making 
predictions. 


GROUPING OF PLANETS 


Luminaries : Sun, Moon 


Malefic Planets : Sun, Saturn, Mars, Waning Moon, 
(Rahu, Ketu, Afflicted Mercury) 


Benefic Planets —_: Jupiter, Venus, Waxing Moon, Well 
associated Mercury (If waning Moon 
and Mercury are together, both become 


28 


benefic) 

Superior Planets: Mars, Jupiter, Saturn 
Inferior Planets — : Mercury, Venus 
Sex of Planets 

Sun, Mars, Jupiter 

Moon, Venus 

Mercury, Saturn 
Caste of Planets : 

Jupiter, Venus 

Sun, Mars 

Mercury, Moon 

Saturn 
Qualities of planets: 

Sun, Moon, Jupiter 

Venus, Mercury 

Mars, Saturn 
Directions of Planets : 


Sun 
Moon 
Mars 
Mercury 
Jupiter 
Venus 


Males 
Females 
Neutrals 


Brahmins 
Kshatriya 
Vaishya 
Shoodra 


Satwik 
Rajsik 


Tamasik 


East 

North -West 
South 

North 
North-East 
South- East 


29 


Saturn 
Rahu/Ketu 


Abodes of Planets : 


Sun 
Moon 
Mars 
Mercury 
Jupiter 
Venus 
Saturn 


Seasons of Planets : 


Venus 
Sun, Mars 
Moon 
Mercury 
Jupiter 
Saturn 


Temperament of Planets : 


Sun, Mars 

Saturn 

Jupiter, Moon, Venus 
Mercury 


Taste of Planets : 


30 


West 
South-West 


Temple 
Watery Place 
Place of Fire 
Play ground 
Treasure house 
Bed Room 
Dirty Place 


Vasant 
Grishma 
Varsha 
Sarad 
Hemanta 
Sisir 


Pitta or Bile 
Vata or wind 
Kapha orphlegm 
Mixture of all 


Sun 
Moon 
Mars 
Mercury 
Jupiter 
Venus 
Satur 


Elements of Planets : 


Mercury 
Moon, Venus 
Sun, Mars 
Satum 
Jupiter 


Complexion of Planets : 


Mars and Sun 
Moon 
Mercury 
Jupiter 

Venus 

Satu 


Physical constituents of Planets : 


Sun 
Moon 


Pungent 
Saline 
Bitter 
Mixed 
Sweet 
Sour 
Astringent 


Prithivi 
Jala 
Agni 
Vayu 
Akash 


Blood- red 
Tawny 
Green 
Tawny 
Variegated 
Dark 


Bones 
Blood 


Bal 


Mars 
Mercury 
Jupiter 
Venus 
Satum 


Cabinet of Planets : 


Sun and Moon 
Mars 
Mercury 


Jupiter and Venus : 


Saturn 


Senses of planets : 


Sun and Mars 
Moon, Venus 
Mercury 
Jupiter 

Saturn 


Periods of Planets : 


32 


Sun 
Moon 
Mars 


Mercury 
Jupiter 


Marrow 
Skin 
Fat 
Semen 
Muscles 


Royal couple 
Commander-in-chief 
Prince 

Ministers 

Servant 


Vision 
Taste 
Smell 
Hearing 
Touch 


Six Months 

48 Minutes 

A day (Consisting 
of day and Night) 
Two Months 

One Month 


Venus 
Saturn 


Gems of Planets : 


Sun 
Moon 
Mars 
Mercury 
Jupiter 


Venus 
Saturn 
Rahu 
Ketu 


Metals of Planets : 


Mars & Sun 


Moon and Venus: 


Mercury 
Jupiter 

Saturn 

Rahu and Ketu 


Robes of Planets: 


Sun 
Moon 
Mars 
Mercury 
Jupiter 


A Fortnight 
A Year 


Ruby 

Pearl 

Coral 

Emerald 

Yellow Sapphire 
or Topaz 
Diamond 

Blue Sapphire 
Gomed 

Cat’s eye 


Copper 
Silver 
Bell’s metal 
Gold 

Tron 

Lead 


Coarse 

New 

Bumt 

Water soaked 
Of recent origin 


33 


but not new 


Venus : Durable 
Saturn : Tom 
Trees of Planets : 
Sun : Tree with stout trunks 
Moon :  Milkytrees(e.g. 
rubber yielding plants) 
Mars : Bitter trees 
(Like lemon plants) 
Mercury :  Fruitless trees 
Jupiter : Fruitful trees 
Venus : Floral Plants 
Saturn : Useless trees 


OTHER CHARACTERISTICS OF PLANETS 


Average Daily motion of planets in zodiac : 


Sun : 10 
Moon : 13-150 
Mars : 30-45' 
Mercury : 65-100" 
Jupiter >: 5-15' 
Venus >: 62-82! 
Saturn a 2} 

Rahu /Ketu r 3! 


Planetary Aspects :- 


All Planets aspect 7th house from the position occupied by 
them. However Mars, Jupiter, Saturn, Rahu, Ketu, have special 
aspect besides 7th aspect. The planetary aspects are as under:- 


34 


Sun, Mercury, Venus - 7th 


Mars - 4th, 7th, 8th, 
Jupiter, Rahu, Ketu - 5th, 7th, 9th 
Saturn -  3rd,7th, 10th 


Exaltation, Debilitation and Mooltrikona signs/ degrees of Planets 

Planet Exaltaton Debilitation Exaltation/ = Mooltrikona 
Sign Sign Debilitation 

Degrees Signs Degrees 
Leo 


Sun Aries Libra 1) (D200 
Moon ‘Taurus Scorpio 9 Taurus 4200 
Mars — Capricom Cancer ® Aries (012 
Mercury Virgo —_— Pisces ay) Virgo 100200 
Jupiter Cancer Capricom 4 Sagittarus 00-100 
Venus Pisces 2D Libra (01D 
Saum Liba Anes at) Aquarius 00-200 
Rahu Taurus Scorpio IS Virgo 1S 
Ketuu Scorpio Taurus IS Pisces IS 


Inter Planetary Relationships 


Planets have two kinds of relationships: 


1. Permanent/ Natural/ Naisargik:- This is a permanent 
relationship and is not influenced by position of planets in the 
zodiac. Due to their inherent nature, the planets are friendly 
with certain planets and inimical to others. The rays of planets 
will be intensified by the rays of one declared as its friend and 
counteracted by those ofa planet declared as its enemy. The 
permanent relationship among planets is as under :- 


Planets —_ Friends Naturals Enemies 
Sun Moon, Mars, Mercury Venus, Satum 
Jupiter 


Moon Sun, Mercury Mars, Jupiter, None 


2 


Venus, Saturn 


Mars Sun, Moon, Venus, Saturn Mercury 
Jupiter 
Mercury Sun, Venus Mars, Jupiter Moon 
Sat 
Jupiter Sun,Moon,Mars Satu Mercury, Venus 
Venus Mercury,Satum Mars, Jupiter Sun,Moon 
Satum Mercury, Venus Jupiter Sun, Moon, Mars 
RahwKetu Mercury, Venus Jupiter Sun, Moon, Mars 
Satum 


The above relationship is based on the principle that from 
Mool -Trikona sign of a planet, 2nd, 4th, 5th, 8th, 9th, and 12th 
position lords are its friends and the rest i.e. 3rd, 6th, 7th, 10th, 
and 11th position lords are its enemies. The exaltation sign’s 
lord ofa planets is always its friend even if it owns 3rd, 6th, 7th, 
10th, and 11th position from Mool- Trikona sign. 


2. Temporary/ Tatkalik :- This relationship is temporary and 
depends upon position of planets in the zodiac. This 
relationship changes with reference to each horoscope. The 
planets in 2nd, 3rd, 4th, 10th, 11th, and 12th houses from a 
particular planet become its temporary friends and those in 
rest of the houses are temporary enemies. 


Both types of relationship are considered while examining a 
horoscope and Combined relationship is obtained which is as 
under: - 

Temporary Friend+Permanent Friend = Intimate Friend (Adhi 
mitra) 

Temporary Friend + PermanentEnemy = Neutral 


36 


Friend 


Temporary Friend + Permanent Neutral 
Temporary Enemy+ PermanentFriend = Neutral 
Temporary Enemy+ Permanent Neutral = Enemy 


Temporary Enemy +Permanent Enemy=Bitter Enemy 
(Adhi Shatru) 


37 


38 


59 


3. CHARACTERISTICS OF EACH SIGN 


ARIES 


Physical Features: - Middle stature, lean and muscular body, 
neither stout nor thick, long face and neck, broad head, mark 
or scar on head or temples, teeth well set, round eyes, curly 
hairs. 


General: - 
Auspicious years - 16,20, 28, 34, 41, 48, 51 
Inauspicious years - 1, 3, 6, 8, 15, 21, 36, 40, 45, 56, 63 


Ambitious, pushful and aggressive nature. Stubborn but frank, 
have practical ideas. Loves beauty, art and elegance. 
Adventurous, fond of argument and debate, never hesitates 
to pick up a quarrel. Fanaticism in religious matters, 
impatience. Afraid of water, fond of travelling, life full of struggle 
in the beginning. Ability to plan, quick actions, executive ability. 
Gets bored in long-term plan, Marvellous ability to rise to the 
occasion in terms of emergency but no endurance to cope 
with prolonged hardships. Visionary, idealistic, sets up own 
standards of right and wrong. Dislikes small undertakings and 
prefers to scheme and takes up large and extensive plans. 
Good nature and charm attracts opposite sex. Self-made, 
sexual, often unsuccessful in love affairs. Love for home and 
family. They always try to be in the midst of family members. 


40 


Keep their house neat and clean. Enjoys high position in 
government. Liable to suffer from headache, burns, high fever, 
paralysis, pimples, migraine, small pox, and neurological 
problems. Require plenty of rest and sleep and also good 
food with plenty of vegetables. 


TAURUS 
Physical features:- 


Middle stature, generally plump body, broad forehead, thick 
and stout neck, beautiful and attractive face, eyes and ears 
large, broad shoulders and well developed muscles, wheatish 
complexion, white teeth, heavy thighs, curly hairs, mole on 
back or armpit. 


General :- 


Loving nature, fond of beauty, music, colour and artistic ways. 
Fond of ease, love and luxury, good food. If not listened to 
attentively, they act like bull. Physical powers and mental 
endurance is noteworthy. Having good friends. 
Straightforward and natural. Considers pros and cons before 
arriving at any conclusion. Amass wealth, applies caution in 
spending. Selfreliant, have their own principles and ways.Being 
highly diplomatic, too difficult to be understood. Precise 
worker, usually good in memory which helps to remember 
even the slightest details. Can carryout any plan cheerfully 
and successfully. Employed in best paid professions, like to 


41 


trade in luxury goods like electronics, cosmetics, perfumes, 
jewellery etc. They become excellent actors, musicians, film 
producer’s etc. May be employed in girls school or ladies 
club.Lucky, spends money in ornaments, gardening, 
horticulture etc. Practical in material affairs. Always beloved 
of fair sex and generally begets large member of female 
children. Divorce is rare in married life. Liable to suffer from 
tonsillitis, diphtheria, pyorrhea, cold, constipation. Suffer 
mental imbalance at least once in life. Suffer mental agony 
due to family problems during the age 8 to 16 and 36 to 47, 
should be cautious during the age of 46 to 51. Should not 
loose heart during difficult periods. 1,2,8,33,44 and 61 are 
inauspicious years during the life. 


GEMINI 
Physical features: 


Tall and well formed body, height above average, long slender 
hands, moderate complexion, depression near chin, active and 
clear speech, sharp and active eyes, black eyes, long nose, 
mole on face. 


General: 


Bold with keen understanding of human nature, humane and 
sympathetic. Remarkable for ingenuity, originality and 
intellectual ability, cabable of grasping situations on spur of 
moment. Liable to lose from fraud and deception. Get 
providential help. Unusual power of adaptability. Variable 


42 


temperament, restlessness, impatience. Gain competence in 
all mental pursuits. Lack in determination, quick decision and 
concentration. Tend to become experts in mechanical 
sciences. Business like attitude and have wealth of information 
in every matter. Many brilliant conversationists, poets, orators, 
writers, musicians, are born in this sign. Follow two 
occupations. Can take up new assignments and be successful 
in them. Suffer continuous misfortune in service. Gets honour 
in society. Obstacles and losses through females. They must 
be cautious in moving with opposite sex. Interested in 
philosophy and religion. Weakness for women and adept in 
winning there affection. Always welcome to any social 
gathering. Marriage is full of interest and excitement for them. 
Liable to suffer from colds, bronchitis, T.B. eosonophillia, 
influenza. 33 years to 46 years is the golden period of their 
life. Suffer during 47 to 56 of age, unlucky during birth to 6th 
year of age and from 21 to 32. 


CANCER 
Physical Features :- 


Short stature, dwarfs, large upper body, frail constitution in 
childhood, strong in manhood, round face with timid look, 
pale and dull complexion, brown hair, walks with rolling gait, 
teeth thick and broad, broad shoulders, do not walk straight. 


General:- 


Famous for fertile imagination and ability to imitate others with 


43 


ease. Many famous mimics and actors are born under this 
sign. Receptive to new ideas and adept themselves to new 
environment. Accumulate wealth through hard work. Can take 
up occupation of fluctuating nature. Best suited to commercial 
career, especially to the trade of catering. Beget breech child. 
Good writers, orators, leaders in society, advisors. Short 
tempered and impatient. Changeable and fluctuating making 
the person moody. Not to be relied upon. Very talkative, self 
reliant, honest and unbending. Have reputation for love of 
justice and fair play. Excellent memory. Famous for their true 
hospitality. Gain favour of intelligent people, independent 
temperament. Deeply attached to family and children. Ideal 
life partners. Often prey to women. Lead wandering and 
restless life. Liable to suffer from infection of lungs, bronchitis, 
TB., dyspepsia, flatulence, nervous debility, jaundice etc. Luck 
favours in profession during the age 21 to 36, financial 
problems- increase in number of enemies during the age of 
37 to 52 and excellent period during the age of 56-69. 5, 25, 
40, 48 and 62 are the inauspicious years in life. 


LEO 
Physical features: - 


Full stature with well developed bones and broad shoulders, 
commanding and majestic appearance, oval faced, upper part 
of the body generally well formed, thin waist, blue or yellow 
eyes. 


44 


General :- 


Expressive, forceful, dominant and born to rule. Frank, 
generous, magnanimous and ambitious. Firm will and forgiving 
spirit. Voracious readers. Fond of pleasure and luxury even 
with limited resources. Capable of inspiring confidence. Jealous 
of own fame and unlikely to fall a victim of flattery. The main 
characteristics is the habit of silence. Journey of eastern 
direction or working while sitting towards east direction is 
very helpful. Self-confidence and self-possession are secrets 
of their success. Endurance and confidence to make through 
any difficult task. Makes use of every opportunity that arises. 
Interested in drama, poetry and fine arts. Loyalty for either 
king or own family is supreme. Potential speculator or punter. 
Successful in government job, army or police. Gets 
specialization in one field. Charm, attracts opposite sex, ideal 
lover. Very sexy, fond of non-vegetarian food, fond of 
wandering in distant places, mountain, hills etc, afraid of cold. 
Likely to suffer from inflammation, sunstroke, epilepsy, 
rheumatic fever, spinal meningitis, heart problem etc. Good 
period during the age of 19 to 36, suffers during the age of 37 
to 42, health problems — difficulties- litigation during the age 
of 46 to 62. Very fortunate at the age of 21,28 and 35. 
Accident through vehicle or the age of 66. 5,13,28,and 48 
are the inauspicious years in life. 


45 


VIRGO 
Physical features :- 


Medium height, dark hair and eyes, quick active walk, often 
appears younger than age, chest prominent, straight nose, thin 
and shrill voice, curved eyebrows with much of hair growth, 
mark either on throat or thighs. 


General :- 


Highly intelligent, ingenious and analytical. Too critical of other 
people’s faults and feelings. Good linguist and have scientific 
turn of mind. For learning anything and everything. 
Discriminating and emotional to get easily carried away by 
impulse. Nervous, lacking self-confidence, methodical, ability 
to present an idea in great detail. Cautious regarding their 
own interests, prudent, economical, diplomatic and shrewd. 
Remarkable for house keeping, furniture in apple-pie order 
and all his personal documents are filed and kept systematically. 
Mathematician, physician or interest in occult subjects. 


Should guard against digestive troubles.Liable to suffer from 
dysentery, typhoid, gall stone etc. Delay in marriage. Peaceful 
and pleasant domestic life, have limited number of children. 
Good income, success in profession, owner of property. Fond 
of being administered medicine even for insignificant complaint. 
Being earthy sign, taken pleasure in gardening and agriculture. 
Fond ofaccumulating wealth. Adventurous, successful in life 
during age of 20 to 25, Owns house during the age of 25 to 


46 


35, suffers during the age of 36 to 48 and sudden gains/ 
fortunate during the age of 49 to 62. Very fortunate during the 
age 23 to 24. 4, 16, 22, 36, and 55 are the inauspicious years 
in life. May suffer from T.B. during the last stage of life. 


LIBRA 
Physical features :- 


Tall slender, well proportioned strong body, handsome 
appearance, fine skin, baldness in middle age, eyebrows add 
to the beauty, nose little bent like parrot, gap in teeth, raised 
forehead. 


General :- 


Gentle, compassionate, courteous and honest. Famous for 
judgement, weighs pros and cons thoroughly before coming 
to a conclusion. Covets the prosperity of others but never 
fails to help dependants. Upright and sympathetic but flexible 
and sensitive. Anger is soon pacified. Thinks of others more 
than self. Can argue with clarity and foresight. Always for 
justice, harmony, love and peace at any cost. Being airy sign, 
ardent lover of nature and its beauties. Changes abode to 
undertake frequent travels. Love high standard of living. Take 
interest in their dress, furniture, conveyance, and other 
comforts. Have another name in the name of god/goddess. 
Expert trader. Usually popular, makes a good business partner. 
Wins goodwill and popularity in public. Make good salesman, 
liaison officers, and receptionists. Lover of art and female 


47 


society. Loved by fortunate females. Liable to suffer from 
problems in kidneys, pain in spines and infectious diseases. 
Females may have problem in uterus. Make good progress 
during the age of 18 to 27, earn wealth during the age of 28 to 
42.8, 15,35, 62 and 64 are inauspicious years in life. 


SCORPIO 
Physical features ;- 


Middle stature, well proportioned body and limbs, broad face, 
curly hair, dark complexion, prominent chin 


General :- 


Frank, fearless and brusque. Fertile mind, intelligent, will 
power. Words are well chosen. Do not interfere in others’ 
matters. Notorious for many outstanding characteristics. It is 
a sign of dictators, energy inexhaustible. Can never display a 
superficial knowledge till he thinks he is thorough. Enormous 
confidence in executive ability. Good conversationists as well 
as writers and rely too much on their own intelligence. 
Reputation for secret crimes. Earn wealth through hard work 
and courage, self-made. Take part in public movements, 
advisor/leader in society, successful in defence or police 
service, have number of enemies. Makes excellent research 
worker on original and novel lines. Can do better if left alone 
to work. Fond of outdoor sports. Can become proficient in 
music, art, dance, etc. Immense ability for occultism. Immense 
appetite for sex and treat partner like a beast. Liable to suffer 


48 


from diseases of generative organs, prostate glands, bladder 
etc. Fortunate during the age of 29 to 45, suffer from chronic 
diseases or undergoes operation during the age of 62 to 71. 
11,28,38,52,62 are the inauspicious years of life. 


SAGITTARIUS 
Physical features :- 


Well developed and handsome figure, almond eyes, brown 
hair, high and bushy eyebrows, long face, long nose, graceful 
look, not a straight walk, thick nose/ ears/ teeth/ lips. 


General :- 


Free, generous, honest, reliable, god-fearing. Alert, intuitive 
and burrows to the point easily. Short sighted or hunch-backed. 
Straight forward in dealings and has high sense of justice. Too 
conventional and business like. Sometimes restless and over- 
anxious. Dual temperament. Versatile, desirous to know 
something of everything. Disposition is happy and cheerful. 
Adaptable, content with simple life. Lover of art and poetry, 
has creative ability. Respecter of law, rarely gets involved in 
legal affairs. Desire for learning philosophy and occult subjects. 
Exercises strict control over food, drinks and relation with 
opposite sex. Neatness, orderliness, being methodical, and 
diligence contribute towards success. Has self-confidence. 
Never leaves off the work on hand unfinished. Gets favour 
from govt, inherits property.Liable to suffer from sciatica, 
rheumatic pain, hipbone fracture, gout, lung problems etc. 


49 


Successful as a teacher, public speaker, heads of religious 
institution, judge, advocate etc. Satisfactory financial position 
during the age of 18 to 37, domestic problems during the age 
of 38 to 47, all round prosperity during the age of 61 to 69. 2, 
10, 18, 31, 38, and 42 are the inauspicious years of life. 


CAPRICORN 
Physical features :- 


Weak slender body and constitution improving with age, large 
teeth, big mouth, prominent nose, dark coarse hair, thin and 
oval face, hunch — backed, scar or mole on the knee cap, 
jaws similar to that of crocodile, short forehead, long teeth, 
beard with less hair. 


General :- 


Prudence, thoughtfullness, reasoning, love of power. Self- 
reliant and highly intellectual. Not optimistic in any matter till 
succeeds. Works on facts and statistics and makes use of 
them in worldly affairs. Honest, sincere and economic. While 
cannot be intimidated by force, he melts like wax in warmth 
of friendship and goodness. Special organizing ability. Even in 
adverse circumstances rarely asks for help. Impediment in 
speech. Fit for public work and position of prominence. Best 
suited for jobs in finance department or in technical field. 
Cannot cultivate friendship easily with strangers but is social 
with earlier friends. Not fit for romance but provides all 
comforts to family and loved ones. Protects family like a hen. 


50 


Very slow and cautious in dealing with opposite sex, has sexual 
relations with females older than himself: Likely to suffer from 
injury near the knee cap, skin disease, bruises, dislocation of 
bones, urticaria, rheumatism etc. Fear of injury from fire, arms 
or iron during childhood. Enjoys life during age of 33 to 49, 
suffers bodily at the age of 50-51. 5, 13, 27, 36, 57, 62 and 
67 are the inauspicious years of life. 


AQUARIUS 


Physical features: Middle stature, well built and strong, round 
and handsome face, cheeks broad, prominent temples and 
buttocks, fair complexion, brown shade hair, defective teeth, 
mole or scar in the calf muscle, body full of hair, hands and 
feet thick, prominent veins. 


General :- 


Humanitarian, healthy outlook on life and its problems. 
Interested in all progressive things. Reserved, weighs 
everything before executes or watches and waits till others 
execute. Caution, patience, concentration, studiousness never 
leave him. Their conversation is always interesting. 
Straightforward temperament, admired by all. Kind, fond of 
learning and inspires noble thoughts. Love of nature, kind 
disposition. Consistent in friendship, strong in likes and dislikes. 
Love for solitude. They develop intuition and inspiration. 
Interested in deep meditation and concentration. Retentive 


51 


memory, research on scientific lines. Works for common and 
downtrodden. Earn money through modern machineries, 
investments and discoveries, interested in technical education. 
Fondness for home. Preferences for equally intelligent and 
educated partner irrespective of age. Home well furnished 
having collection of antiques managed in modern fashion. Do 
not give expression to their love. Iflovers are passionate, they 
will not be satisfied as aquarian may appear to be cold. Liable 
to suffer from infectious disease, tooth problems, tonsils etc. 
Prosperity during the age of 22 to 40, chances of injury by 
arms, iron or wood during the age of 41 to 43, fortunate during 
the age of 44 to 67, suffers after the age of 68. 2, 28, 33, 48, 
and 64 are the inauspicious years of life. 


PISCES 


Physical features: Short, full and plumpy figure with 
considerably small hand and feet, soft and silky hair, fair 
complexion, sparkling face, attractive and handsome, eyes 
big and protruding, shoulders muscular and spherical , dimple 
chin. 

General: 


Not an impressive figure. Restless, imaginative and romantic 
Upright, honest and humane. Changeable temper, swayed by 
opinion of others. Lacks self-confidence. Extremely 
sympathetic, forgiving, generous, honest and 
reliable. Understands own abilities and this quality stands as 


52 


an impediment in progress. Orthodox, extremely superstitious, 
reserved, god fearing, rigid in observation of religious customs 
and practices. Cannot see sufferings even in animals and 
renders assistance. Lacks ambition and finds difficult to make 
speedy progress in material zone. Two occupations, adept in 
any new branch he pursues. Make good employee. Proves 
successful in transactions dealing with liquids and spirits. They 
gain in export- import business. Liable to suffer from gastric 
troubles and injury in ankles and feet. 


Happy married and domestic life. Prefers beauty of partner, 
intellectual pursuits and fine arts. Often two marriages, 
influenced by partner. Prosperity during the age of 27 to 43, 
suffers during the age of 44 to 60, fortunate during the age of 
61 to 69. 8, 13, 36, and 48 are the inauspicious years of life. 


GROUPING OF SIGNS 
The 12 signs are grouped as under :- 


Masculine or Odd Signs : Aries, Gemini, Leo, Libra, 
Sagittarius, Aquarius, 


Feminine or Even Signs : Taurus, Cancer, Virgo, 
Scorpio, 
Capricorn, Pisces. 

Movable Signs : Aries, Cancer, Libra, 
Capricorn 

Fixed Signs : Taurus, Leo, Scorpio, 
Aquarius 


53 


Dual or common Signs 


Fiery Signs 

Earthy Signs 

Airy Signs 

Watery Signs 

Signs of Long Ascension 
Signs of Short Ascension 


Sirshodaya Signs 


Prishtodaya Signs 


Ubhayodaya Signs 


Quadruped Signs 


(Four legged chatuspad) 


54 


: Gemini, Virgo, Sagittarius, 


Pisces 


: Aries, Leo, Sagittarius 

: Taurus, Virgo, Capricom 
: Gemini, Libra, Aquarius 
: Cancer, Scorpio, Pisces 


: Cancer,Leo, Virgo,Libra, 


Sagittarius 


: Aries, Taurus, Gemini, 


Capricorn, Aquarius, Pisces 


: Leo, Virgo, Libra, Scorpio, 


Aquarius (Rising by head) 


: Aries, Taurus,Cancer, 


Sagittarius, (Rising from hind 
parts) Capricorn 


: Gemini, Pisces (Rising both 


ways) 


: Aries, Taurus, Leo, 2" half of 


Sagittarius, 1‘ half of 
Capricorn 


Human Signs 


Reptile Signs 


Northern Signs 


Southern Signs 


Equinoctial Signs 
Fruitful Signs 


Barren signs 
Moderate Signs 
Brahmin Varna Signs 
Kshtriya Varna Signs 
Vaishya Varna Signs 
Shoodra Varna Signs 


: Gemini, Virgo, Libra, 1‘ half 


of Sagittarius, Aquarius 


: Cancer, Scorpio, Pisces, 2"¢ 


half of (Keeta) Capricorn 


: Aries, Taurus, Gemini, 


Cancer, Leo, Virgo 


: Libra, Scorpio, Sagittarius, 


Capricorn, Aquarius, Pisces 


: Aries, Libra 


Taurus, Cancer, Scorpio, 
Sagittarius, Pisces 


Aries, Gemini, Leo, Virgo 


: Libra, Capricorn, Aquarius 
: Cancer, Scorpio, Pisces 

: Aries, Leo, Sagittarius 

: Taurus, Virgo, Capricorn 


: Gemini, Libra, Aquarius 


The whole zodiac consisting of twelve signs 


represent Kalapurusha. 


The twelve signs depict the following body parts of 


Kalapurusha:- 


55 


Cancer 
Leo 

Virgo 
Libra 
Scorpio 
Sagittarius 
Capricom 
Aquarius 


Pisces 


56 


Body Part 

Head 

Face and Throat 

Neck and arms shoulders, chest 
Heart 

Stomach upper abdomen 
Waist & intestines 

Parts below Navel 

Private Parts / External genitalia 
Thighs 

Knees 

Ankles 


Feet 


4. HOUSES : THEIR SIGNIFICATIONS & 
SIGNIFICATORS 


Earth is moving on its axis from West to East. If we see 
towards horizon, we find that signs of Zodiac rise one by one. 
Any particular sign of the Zodiac will reappear at the east 
horizon after approximately 24 hours. Ascendant is the sign 
of zodiac which is rising in the eastern horizon at the time of 
occurrence of an event. The Ascendant is also known as first 
house of the horoscope. 


Second house means the second counted from first and so 
on. 


Each house of the horoscope signifies certain aspects of life 
which are as under:- 


First House:- 


Body, appearance, personality, face, health, character, 
temperament, intellect, longevity, fortune, honour, dignity, 


prosperity. 


Second House:- 


Wealth, family, speech, right eye, nail, tongue, nose, teeth, 
ambition, food, imagination, power of observation, jewellery, 


57 


precious stones, unnatural sex, loss by cheating and violence 
between life partners. 


Third House:- 


Younger brothers and sisters, cousins, relatives, neighbors, 
courage, firmness, valour, chest, right ear, hands, short 
journeys, nervous system, communication, writing — editing 
books, reporting to newspapers, education, intellect. 


Fourth House:- 


Mother, conveyance, relatives, domestic environment, 
treasure, land, house, education, landed property, hereditary 
tendencies, later portion of life, hidden treasure, private love 
affairs, chest, interference in married life by parents-in laws 
and family, ornaments, clothes. 


Fifth House:- 


Progeny, intelligence, fame, position, stomach, love affairs, 
pleasures, and amusements, speculation, past birth, soul, 
position in life, artistic talent, heart and back, proficiency in 
games, success in competition. 


Sixth House:- 

Disease, debt, disputes, miseries, injuries, maternal aunt or 
uncle, enemies, service, food, clothes, theft, ill fame, pet 
animals, subordinates, tenants, waist. 


58 


Seventh House:- 


Spouse, personality of spouse, relations between life partners, 
desires, partnership, open enemies, recovery, journey, 
litigation, danger to life, influence in foreign countries and fame, 
relations between self and public, sexual or urinary disease. 


Eighth House:- 


Longevity, kind of death, sexual organs, obstacles, accident, 
unearned wealth, inheritance, legacy, will, insurance, pension 
and gratuity, theft, robbery, worries, delay, battles, enemies, 
inheritance of money, mental affliction, extramarital life. 


Ninth House:- 


Fortune, religion, character, grand parents, long journeys, 
grandson, devotion towards elders and god, spiritual initiation, 
dreams, higher education, wife’s younger brother, brother’s 
wife, visit to holy places, philosophy, communication with 
spirits. 


Tenth House:- 


Profession, fame, power, position, authority, honour, success, 
status, knees, character, karmas, ambition in life, father, 
employers and superiors, relationship between self and 
superiors, success in business, promotion, recognition from 
government. 


59 


Eleventh House:- 


Gains, prosperity, fulfillment of desires, friends, elder brother, 
ankles, left ear, advisers, favourites, recovery of illness, 
expectation, son’s wife, wishes, success in undertakings. 


Twelfth House:- 


Harm, punishment, confinement, expenditure, donations 
(given), marriage, work related to water resorts, vedic sacrifice, 
fines paid, sexual enjoyment outside wedlock, contacting 
sexually transmitted disease, weakness in sexual act, sleeping 
comforts, enjoying luxuries, loss of spouse, losses in marriage, 
termination of employment, separation from own people, long 
joumeys, settlement in forign land. 


SIGNIFICATORS OF HOUSES 


The significators or karakes of various houses are as under:- 


1“ House Sun 

aoe = Jupiter 

bias o: Mars, Mercurry 
4th ts Moon, Venus 
a - Jupiter 

6% = Mars, Saturn 


60 


Th Venus 


gin Bs Satur 

gt ia Sun, Jupiter 

10" - Mercury, Sun, Jupiter and Saturn 
ja = Jupiter 

he Saturn 


SIGNIFICATIONS OF PLANETS 


Sun - Father, influence, energy 

Moon - Mother, mind 

Mars - Brothers, courage 

Mercury - Profession, speech, education, 
Jupiter - Progeny, wealth, prosperity wisdom 
Venus - Marriage, material comforts, pleasures 
Saturn - Longevity, sorrows, delays 

Rahu - Maternal relations 

Ketu - Paternal relations 


61 


FAVOURABLE PLANETS FOR EACH ASCENDANT 


Ascendant 


Leo 

Virgo 
Libra 
Scorpio 
Sagittarius 
Capricorn 
Aquarius 


Pisces 


62 


Favourable 
Planets 


Jupiter, Sun 
Saturn 
Venus 
Jupiter, Mars 
Mars 
Venus 
Saturn 
Jupiter 
Mars 
Venus 
Venus 


Mars, Moon 


Unfavourable 
Planets 


Mercury, Venus 
Jupiter, Venus, Moon 
Mars, Jupiter, Sun 
Venus, Mercury 
Saturn, Venus 
Mars 

Jupiter, Sun, Mars 
Mercury, Venus 
Venus 

Mars, Jupiter 
Jupiter, Moon 


Sun, Venus, Saturn 


GROUPING OF HOUSES 


Angles or Kendra Houses 
Trines or Trikona Houses 
Succedent or Panapara Houses 


Cadent or Apoklima Houses 


Upachaya or Favourable Houses : 


Death inflicting or Marak Houses 


: 1, 4%) 7% and 10" 
: 1) 5" and 9% 
» 24, 5 8 and 11 


> 374 6, Ot and 12% 


374, 6, 10%, and 11" 
Evil or Trik Houses: 
6%, 8, and 12% 


: 2and 7* 


The twelve houses are known an Tanu (Physique), Dhana 
(Wealth), Sahaja (Younger brother/ Sister), Matru (Mother), 
Putra (Progeny), Ari (Enemies), Kalatra (Spouse), Ayur 
(Longevity), Dharma (Religion), Karma (Livelihood), Labha 


(Gains) and Vyay (Losses) 


In terns of native’s life, the Kendras denote childhood, the 
panaparas denote middle age and A poklimas denote old 
age. The 1‘ to 8™ house relate to one’s marital life, the 9" to 
11" pertain to religious or moral beliefs and 12" house deals 


with other world i.e. Moksha. 


63 


HOUSES 


Panapara, Kendra& Apoklima & 
Marak Trikona Trik 


Upachaya 
& Apoklima 
Kendra Le 

Trikona & 

Panapara 
Apoklima Panapara 
Upachaya & Kendra & & Trk 
Trik Marak 


64 


Significations of Houses 


Kendra & 
Upachaya 


5. CASTING OF HOROSCOPE 


The basic information required for casting horoscope of an 
event is — (1) Place (II) Time and (II) Date. 


1. PLACE:- 


With place we mean location of place on earth. The location 
of place is known by coordinates Latitude and Longitude. 
Latitude of a place is a measure of angular distance from 
equator. All lines parallel to equator are known as lines of 
Latitude. N 


90°N 


662°N 


Tropic of Cancer 
// Tropic of Canes \ yon 
Tropic of Capricorn 


662°S 


S 
60°S 
Lines of Latitude Lines of Longitude 


The Latitude ofa place may vary from 90°N to 90°S. 


Lines joining North Pole and South Pole are known as lines 
of longitude or meridians: -All meridians are of equal length. 
Meridian which passes through Greenwich (U.K.) where 
British Royal observatory is situated is taken as a reference 
point or starting point for numbering of meridians and is known 
as Prime Meridian or 0° Longitude. The Longitude ofa place 


65 


The Latitude of a place may vary from 90°N to 90°S. 


Lines joining North Pole and South Pole are known as lines 
of longitude or meridians: -All meridians are of equal length. 
Meridian which passes through Greenwich (U.K.) where 
British Royal observatory is situated is taken as a reference 
point or starting point for numbering of meridians and is known 
as Prime Meridian or 0° Longitude. The Longitude ofa place 
may vary from 180°E to 180°W. 

2.Time:- 

Earth rotates on its own axis from West to East. Therefore 
places east of Greenwich will be ahead of GMT (Greenwich 
Mean Time) and those to west will be behind it. A solar day 
or synodic day is the interval between two successive transits 
of sun across the meridian of place. On the other hand a 
sidereal day is the interval between two successive transits of 
the first point of Aries across the meridian. 

Solar day or Synodic day— 24 hours, Sidereal day- 23 hours 
56 minuets 4 seconds 

Earth completes one rotation on its axis once in 24 hours, i.e. 
it moves 15° in one hour or 1° in 4 minuets. Therefore with 
every change of 1° in meridian there will be a change of 4 
minuets in time. Therefore if there is 12 noon at Greenwich, 
the time at 15°E of Greenwich will be 1 P.M. 

In India, the standard time was introduced on 1.1.1906 and 
the meridian chosen is one of longitude 82°30’E of GMT. 
The standard time is adopted in all countries. 


For Casting of horoscope, local mean time of the place is 


66 


needed. When Sun is crossing (LMT) the meridian of place, 
itis 12 o’ clock or midday according to the local time. If 
longitude of a place and GMT is known, LMT of that place 
can be known by the following formula 
LMT = GMT + Longitude 
15 
+ Ifplace is East of Greenwich 
- Ifplace is West of Greenwich 
Ex: - 
Find out LMT ofa place at 78°W longitude when it is 12 
noon at Greenwich. 
Ans.:- LMT = 12-—78/15 = 12 —5hr. 12 minuets 
= 6 hours 48 minuets. 
In Hindu system day starts from sunrise and continues till next 
sunrise. This is different from English day which is from midnight 
to next midnight. The Hindu day consist of Ahas — duration of 
day i.e. sunrise to sunset and Ratri— duration of night i.e. 
sunset to sunrise. On equator Ahas and Ratri are equal. 


<—___ English Day 


Hindu Day = 


67 


If we look towards the rising sun — from the time disc of sun 
comes out ofhorizon and the time when full disc of sun comes 
out, there is a difference of about 2 to 3 minutes. For all 
astrological purposes time of sunrise is taken when half disc 
of sun comes out of horizon. 


In Hindu astrology time of event is indicated as Isht kal or 
Suryodistam or Mandloydistam which is time elapsed after 
sunrise. This Isht kal in horoscope is generally indicated in 
terms of Ghati, Pal and Vipal. The relation between Ghati, 
Pal and Vipal vis—a—vis Hours, Minutes and Seconds is an 
under:- 


1 Hour - 2.5 Ghati 
1 Minute - 2.5 Pal 
1Second - 2.5 Vipal. 


If Isht kal and time of sunrise is known the same can be 
converted into IST or vice — versa. The calculation will be 
clear from the following examples :- 


Ex:- Sunrise is at 0700 hrs (IST). Find Isht kal when IST is 
1405 hrs. 


Ans.:- Time elapsed after sunrise 1405 —0700 =7 hrs 5 Mts. 
7hrs =7 x 2.5 Ghati= 17.5 Ghati = 17 Ghati 30 pal 

5 Mts.=5 x 2.5Pal =12.5 Pal = 12 Pal 30 Vipal 

| _Isht Kal = 17 Ghati 42 Pal and 30 Vipal 


Ex. 2:- Sunrise is at 0617 hrs (IST). Isht kal given is 33 Ghati 
23 Pal and 13 Vipal. Find out time (IST) 


68 


Ans.:-33 Ghati = 33/2.5hrs = 13.2hrs =13 hrs 12 Mts. 
23 Pal = 23/2.5 Mts. = 9.2 Mts. =9 Mts. 12 Second 
13 Vipal =13/2.5 Seconds = 5.2 Seconds 

.. 33 Ghati 23 Pal 13 Vipal = 13 hrs 21 Mts.17.2 Seconds 

. IST = Sunrise + time elapsed 06.17 + 13-21-17.2 

= 19 hrs 38 Mts. 17.2 Seconds ...... Ans. 


DATE: (Gregorian Calendar) 


Distance of planets west to east are measured from a certain 
point in celestial path called vernal equinox or first point of 
Aries. In Hindu astrology this point is considered as stationary 
or fixed. However due to precession earth, this point is not 
fixed. It has slow retrograde motion of 50'.26” each year. 
This completes a revolution in 25785 years 10 months and 
28.68 days. Western astrologers do not take into account the 
precession of equinoxes for finding longitudes. Therefore 
longitude of planets according to the two systems show 
difference of about 23°. The Longitude of planets according 
to the two system coincided in about the year 268 AD. This 
precession of equinoxes is known as Ayanamsa. The system 
based on fixed and moving zodiacs are known as Nirayana 
and Sayana respectively. 


Sayana longitude = Nirayana longitude + Ayanamsa 


Apart from english calendar, following calendars are in vogue 
in Indian system. 


69 


1. Solar Calendar 


- Based on fixed Zodiac system — known as Vikrami 
Calendar 


- Based on Moving zodiac system — known as shaka 
calendar 


2. Lunar Calendar 


1. SOLAR CALENDAR:- 


Solar Calendar are based on this movement of sun in the 
zodiac. Whenever sun enters 0° of zodiac, solar year starts 
exactly on the same day and time. Sun moves in the zodiac 
approximately | degree each day and therefore sun changes 
sign and zodiac after 30 or 31 days. As there are 12 signs in 
zodiac, there are 12 months ina year. Entry ofsun in new sign 
every months is celebrated as Sankranti and therefore there 
are 12 Sankrantis in a year. Month has 30 days when sun 
moves faster and 31 days when sun moves slower. 


Vikrami year 2057 started on 13th April 2000 and Shaka 
year 1922 started on 22" March 2000. The names of different 
months are Baishakh, Jyeshta, Ashada, Shravana, 
Bhadrapada, Aswin, Kartik, Maghar, Poush, Magh, Phalgun 
and Chaitra. The first month of Vikrami year is Baishakh 
whereas Shaka year starts with the month Chaitra. 


70 


2. LUNAR CALENDAR:- 


Lunar Calendar is based on relative movement of Sun and 
Moon in the zodiac. Sun and Moon move in the zodiac at 1° 
and 13° (Approx.) per day. Moon reaches the same point of 
zodiac again after 27.32 earth days. By the time Sun moves 
ahead by approx. 28° in the zodiac and to be with Sun, Moon 
has to further travel for a little more than 2 earth days. Therefore 
Lunar month is of 29.5306 earth days and consists of full 
bright moon to another full bright moon day. Lunar month 
consists of two parts — (1) 1“ half from full bright moon day 
to full dark moon day (known as Krishna Paksha) and (2) 2" 
half from full dark moon day to full bright moon day (known 
as Shukla Paksha ). The day of full bright moon is known as 
Poornamasi (i.e. distance between Sun and Moon is 180°) 
and the day of full dark moon is known as Amavasya (i.e. 
distance between sun and moon is 0°). Lunar date or moon 
date is known as Tithi. First and second half of lunar month 
has 15 Tithi each and therefore lunar month has 30 Tithi. Lunar 
month starts when Moon is exactly 180° away from Sun and 
this may fall at any moment in 24 hours. Unlike Indian day of 
solar calendars, Moon date does not start at sunrise but may 
start at any time when longitude distance between Sun and 
Moon changes exactly by 12°. Names of lunar month are 
same as those of months of Vikrami year. Months have been 
name on the name of Nakshatras. This name of Nakshatra 
has a special significance because lunar month start, with same 
Nakshatra The starting of various lunar month may be with 
the following Nakshatras:- 


71 


Name of Month 
Baishakh 
Jyeshta 
Ashada 
Shravana 
Bhadrapada 
Aswin 
Kartik 
Maghar 
Poush 
Magh 
Phalgun 


Chaitra 


Starting Nakshtra 
Visakha, or Anuradha 
Jyeshta or Moola 

Poorva Ashada 

Shravana or Dhanishta 
Shatabhisha or Poorva Bhadrapada 
Revati or Aswini or Bharani 
Kritika or Rohini 

Mrigshira or Ardra 
Punarvasu or Pusya 
Aslesha or Magha 

Poorva Phalguni or Hasta 


Chitra or Swati 


Solar year is of 365 days 15 Ghati 22 Pal and 54 Vipal where 
as Lunar year is of 354 days 22 Ghati | Pal and 25 Vipal. 
Therefore there is a difference of 10 days 53 Ghati 21 Pal 
and 29 Vipal in Solar and Lunar year. Therefore after 32 
months the difference will become one lunar month. Since all 
Indian festivals are related to lunar year, each festival will fall 
11 days earlier every year. Therefore to adjust lunar year with 
solar year, after every 2 or 3 years, one lunar month is added 


72 


into lunar calendar and then this particular year will have 13 
lunar months. This makes every festival to fall in the same 
season. This extra month is known as ADHIKMASA. Since 
1947, ADHIK MASA has occurred in the following months 
and years — 


July 47, June 50, April 53, August 55, July 58, May 61, 
September 63, July 66, June 69, April 72, August 74, July 
77, May 80, October 82, July 85, May 88, April 91, August 
93, June 96, May 99. 


The basic principle in that the lunar month is which Sun does 
not make a transit is considered as ADHIKMAS. Sun remains 
in the same sign throughout such a month. Last ADHIKMAS 
was from 16" May 99 to 13" June 99. Sun entered Taurus 
sign on May 15 at 8 hrs 05 minuets and remained in this sign 
till 14 hrs 38 minuets on June 15. Since distance between Sun 
and Earth is more during April — October, Sun’s apparent 
speed during this period is slower than average, hence it takes 
longer time to cover one sign. Therefore ADHIKMASA can 
fall only during April — October. 


In contrast to ADHIKMASA, there is another rare 
phenomenon known as MASAKSHAYA in which lunar year 
has only 11 months. In such a situation there are two solar 
transits in the same lunar month. This phenomenon can occur 
subject to following three conditions — 


(a) Earth should be nearest to Sun in its orbit so that 
apparent speed of Sun is large and it makes its 


73 


successive transits faster. 


(b) Although the average lunar month is 29.53 days, the 
actual duration varies from month to month. It helps if 
lunar month has a longer duration than average. 


(c) Onetransit of Sun should occur soon after the beginning 
of new lunar month and Sun’s next transit should occur 
just before beginning of month. 


It has been found that this rare phenomenon can occur after 
19 years or 141 years. MASKSHAYA occurred in 1882 — 
83 AD, 1963 — 64 AD and in 1982 — 83 AD 


CALCULATION OF LAGNA 


For purpose of casting of horoscope, we will take help of 
following two books:- 


1. Tables of Ascendants — By Sh. N.C. Lahiri 
(Tables of Ascendants) 


" " " 


2. Indian Ephemeris - 


Indian Ephemeris are published for each English year whereas 
Tables of Ascendants do not change. We will be using Indian 
Ephemeris for the year 2000. For the purpose of calculation 
we will take two examples — first where time of event is before 
noon and second when time of event is after noon. 


Steps involved in calculation of ascendant may be summarized 
as under :- 


74 


Indian standard time is converted into Local Mean Time 
by applying local mean time correction applicable for a 
particular city as per table given at page 100 of Table of 
Ascendants. 


If birth is before noon, time interval before noon is 
calculated by subtracting, LMT from 12. If birth is after 
noon, time interval after noon is found by subtracting 12 
from LMT. 


Time interval before noon/ after noon is increased @ 
appox. 10 second per hour by using table IV, page 5 of 
TOA. This is considered as corrected time interval before/ 
after noon. 


Side real time on the date of event is noted from table I. 
Page 2 of TOA. This side real time is at 12 noon fora 
place having 82-’40 E longitude and for 1900 A.D. 


In this side real time corrections are applied for the city 
and year. For collection for city page 100 of TOA is 
referred to. For correction for year table II, page 3 of 
TOA is referred to. This we are in a positions to calculate 
corrected side real time. 


Side real time for epoch is obtained by subtracting corrected 
time interval before noon from corrected side real time if 
time of birth is before noon. If side real time is less than 
corrected time interval before noon then subtract after 
adding 24 in side real time. If time of birth is after noon, 
side real time for epoch is obtained by adding corrected 


75 


time interval after moon in side real time. If total is more 
than 24, subtract 24 to find out side real time for epoch. 


7. Calculate ascendant from relevant table of ascendant for 
city of event from TOA. 


8. Apply Ayanamsa correction from table at page 6 of 
T.O.A. then we obtain ascendant for the given data. 


Ex.1. A Native bor at 10.30 A.M. (IST) on 2 — 1—2000 in 
Calcutta. 


Steps:- Hr. Min. Sec. 
Time of Birth in IST 10 30 - 


Local Mean time correction 
(Ref. Tab. At page 100 of +23 30 


Tables of Ascendants) 

Local mean time 10 53 30 

Time Intervalbeforenoon 12 = - - 

(-) 10 53 30 
01 06 30 

To be increased by 

10 sec. Per hour 

(Ref: Table + 11 

(IV),page 5 of Tables 


76 


of Ascendants) 


Corrected Time interval 1 06 4] 
Before noon 
(A) 
Hr Min Sec. 
Side real time on 
(2"™ January Tab.I, 18 45 45 
Page 2 of Tables of Ascendants) 
Correction for year 
2000 (Tab. II, Page (-)- - 52 
3 of Tables of Ascendants) 
18 44 53 
Correction for place 
Calcutta (page 100 of TOA) (-) - - 
04 
Corrected Time interval 18 44 49 
(B) 
Sidereal time of B-A 
Epoch 18 44 49 
(-) 1 06 41 
17 38 08 


Note:- if A>B than add 24 in B and then subtract. 
With above sidereal time for epoch, we will use relevant table 
of ascendant for Calcutta, which is at page 36 of Tables of 


Ascendants. 


77 


Sign Degree Minutes 
Ascendant for 17hrs 40mts. 11 0 22 
ie 17hrs 36 Mts. 10 29 02 
. Diff. For 4 Mts. (240 sec) = 1° 20’ or 80’ 
.: Diff for 2 Mts. 8 Sec. (128 Sec) = 80 x 128/240 


= 43° 
. Ascdt for 17 hrs 38 Mts. 08 Sec 
= 105 29° 02’ 
+ 43 
10° = 29° 45° 
Ayanamsa Correction 
(Ref. Page6ofTOA)  (-) 52 
105 28° 53° 


Ascendant of native is Aquarius sign at 28°53’ 


Ex.2 A Native is born at 16.40 hrs (IST) on 22.1. 2000 in New Delhi 
Hr. Min. Sec. 
Steps:- TimeofbirthinIST 16 40 - 


LMT correction 
(Ref. Tab. Atpage 100 = (-) 21 08 
of TOA) 
Local Mean Time 16 18 52 
Time intervalafternoon (-) 12 - - 
04 18 52 
To be increased by 10 sec. 
per hour (Ref: TableIV, = + 4 
Page 5 of TOA) 
Corrected Time interval 
after Noon 04 19 34 
(A) 
Hr. = Min. Sec. 
Side real time on = =—_—— 
22™ January (tab.1, 20 04 36 
page 2 of TOA) 


78 


Correction for year 


2000 (Tab.II, page (-) 52 
3 of TOA) 

20 04 44 
Correction for place 
Delhi(page 100 0f + 03 
TOA) 

20 04 47 

(B) 

Side realtime forEpoch B+A 

20 04 47 

+ 4 19 34 
“24 24 «21 


Since B+ A is more than 24 we will have to subtract 24 for this. 


.. Side real time forepochis Ohr. 24Mts. 21 Sec. 
For Delhi, table of ascendant is at page 48 of TOA. 


Sign Degree Minutes 


Ascendant for Ohrs 28Mts 2 25 21 
Ascendant for Ohrs 24 Mts. 2: 24 29 
.: Diff for 4Mts (240 Sec) - - 52? 
Diff for 21 Sec. 52x 21/240 =5 
.. Ascent for 0 hrs 24 Mts. 21 Sec. = 28 24° 29’ 
Pe ee Se 

2s 24° 34’ 
Ayanamsa Correction (-) 52’ 
(Ref Page 6 of TOA) 

2s 23° 42’ 


.. Ascendant of native is Gemini sign at 23° 42’ 


ee! 


Sun Moon 


Longitude at 9°-7° 3%-18° 
5.30 AMon -24 -31’ 
22-1-2000 (I) 


Longitude at 9 8° 4°-03° 
5-30A.M.on —25’ —-05’ 
23-1-2000 (I) 


Movement of 0-19 0*-14° 
planet inone -l’ -34’ 


day (M) (III) 


Time diff. 11Hrs. 11Hrs. 


between time 10Mts. 10Mts. 


of birth and 
5.30 AM 
(Iv) (1) 


Log M(V) 1.3730 .2168 


Log T(VI) 3323. .3323 


Log M+ 1.7053 .5491 
Log T(VII) 


Antilog(VIII) 28’ 6°47’ 


Longitude of 9-79  38-25° 


planets (I) 52”. -18" 
+ (VHD) 


80 


Jupiter Saturn Rahu 


0-29 0169 3-99 
55? 317-50" (R) 


03° §=0-16° 33-9? 
01’ 33° 50° 


0-0" 00° OL 
6 2 9 


11Hrs. 11Hrs. 11Hrs. 
10Mts. 10Mts. 10Mts. 


2.3802 2.8573 — 


3323 .3323 3323 


2.7125 3.1896 .3323 


3° 1’ 0’ 


58°32” -50” (R) 


BHAVA CHALIT: - 


So far zodiac has been divided into 12 equal parts and as 
such each house extended exactly 30° Starting from 0° of 
zodiac. The point at which ecliptic cuts the horizon in the east 
is known as rising lagna whereas the point where ecliptic cuts 
the horizon in the west is known as setting lagna. Points where 
meridian ofa place cuts the ecliptic are known as zenith lagna 
(above earth) and Nadir lagna (below earth) 


Madhya Lagna (zenith ) 
D___ Upper Meridian 
Uday Lagna 
(Rising Lagna) A Western Horizon Setting 
Eastern Horizon Lagna (Asta Lagna) 


B Patal Lagna (Nadir) 

In actual practice 1 house may not start from 0° and each 
house may not extend exactly 30°. Therefore we have to find 
out extant of each house to calculate Bhava Chalit. According 
to the Western system, the first house begins from longitude 
of ascendant and extends up to the longitude of second house 
from which point again the second house begins and so on. 
The longitudes of the different houses are the junction point of 
the houses and as such they are called the cusps (sandhis) of 
the houses in the western system. According to the Indian or 
Hindu system cusps or longitude of the houses are middle 
point of respective houses and not the junction points. A house 
extends, over the span from the preceding sandhis up to the 
following sandhis of the house concerned. The longitude of 


81 


houses such as the ascendants are central points of houses 
and as such the most sensitive points. 


(Ascendant) 
E A B 
C70 
xX -Y 


Chart of Houses (Hindu System) 


B - Cusp of 12" House 

C - Beginning of 1*t House 

D - Cusp of 2"! House 

X - Cusp of 4 House 

Y - Cusp of 10" House (mid heaven) 
Z - Cusp of 7" House 


omraow 
N 


82 


CHART OF HOUSES (Western System) 


For Calculating Bhav Chalit, we first calculate ascendant and 
longitude of 10" house from T.O.A. Longitude of 10" house 
+ 6 signs gives longitude of 4™ house and longitude of 1“ 
house + 6 signs gives longitude of 7" house. Difference in 
longitude of 10™ house and 1* House and 1* and 4" house is 
divided into six equal parts to obtain beginning, mid points 
and extent of each house. 


Let us prepare Bhava Chalit chart for the data for which we 
have calculated the longitude of ascendant and all planets. 
The data given was 22.1.2000 at 16.40 hrs. New Delhi. 
The ascendant as calculated is 2° 23' 42’ 

Sidereal time for epoch was Ohr. 24 Mts. 21 Sec. 

For Calculating longitude of 10" house we refer to ‘Table of 
Tenth House’ at page 8 of TOA. 


For OHr -28 Mts. Longitude of 10" House is 115 14° 37’ 
“ OHr -24Mts. “ fe Oa te 11s 13° 32’ 

. Diff. For 4 Mts. (240 Sec) is 1° 5’ or 65’ 

oa 21 Sec. 65 x 21/240 = 6’ 


.. Longitude of 10" house 11s 13° 32’ 
+ 6” 
11s 13° 38° 
Ayanamsa Correction (-) 52’ 
(Ref. Page 6 of TOA) 11s 12° 46’ 


.. Longitude of 10" House is 118 12° 46’ 
(1) Longitude of 1‘ House 2s 23° 42’ 


(2) “ X"House 11° 12° 46° 


83 


(3) Diffof (1) and (2) 
(4) Divided (3) by 6 


(5) Longitude of 4 House 


35 


0s 


5s 


10° 56° 
16° 49’ 


12° 


46’ 


(By adding 6 signs to longitude of 10" house) 


(6) Diffin Longitude of 1* and 4" House 2s 


(7) Divide (6) by 6 


I 
Sign (S) 2 
Degree (D) 23 


Minute (M) 42 
Second (S) 0 


IV 
S 5 
D 12 
M 46 
S 0 

VII 
S 8 
D B 
M 42 
S 0 

x 
S 11 
D 2 
M 46 
S 0 


84 


BHAVA CHALIT TABLE 


Sandhi 
3 


06 
52 


29 

35 

20 
Sandhi 
9 

6 

52 


19° 
Os 13° 10’ 

Sandhi_ Il 
4 4 

3 16 
14 24 
0 40 
Sandhi VI 
7 7 

3 20 
14 3 

0 20 
Sandhi IX 
10 10 
3 16 
14 24 
0 40 
Sandhi XII 
1 1 

3 20 
14 3 

0 20 


4’ 00” 
40” 


Sandhi 
4 


52 (B) 
40 
Sandhi 
10 
29 
35 (C) 
20 
Sandhi 
2 
6 
52 (D) 
40 


Figures in A have been obtained by adding 0° 13° 10’ 40” 
and Figures in B have been obtained by adding 6 signs in 
figures of D 


Figures in D have been obtained by increasing longitude of 
10™ house by 0° 16° 49’ 20” 


Figures in C have been obtained by adding 6 signs in figures 
of A 


From the above table extent of various houses are as under:- 
I 2m 3 gih sth Gh JH th gh Qh pH Dt 

Beginning 2" 35 48 45878 8108-101 AS 
6° 6 «3-299 299 3° 6 = 63% 29° 29° 3° 
52’ 52’ 14’? 35’ 35’ 14’? 52’ 52’ 14’ 35’ 35’ 14’ 
40” 40” 0” 20” 20” 0” 40” 40” 0” 20” 2070” 

Mid Point2> 35 45 55 6 7 8 9 105 115 005 Is 
23" 199 169 12° 16° 20° 23° 19° 16° 12° 16° 20° 
42’ 3°’ 24’ 46’ 24’ 3’ 42° 3° 24° 46’ 24’ 3’ 


gh) 568-2008 Aor aqh WE 204 BOO 2b a08 
End OL 


6° 3° 299 299 30 69 6 39 290 290 30 60 
52’ 14” 35’ 35’ 14’ 52’ 52’ 14’ 35’ 35’ 14’ 52’ 
40” 0” 20” 20” 0” 40” 40” 0”? 20” 20” 0” 40” 


REPRESENTATION OF DATA: 


Longitude of ascendant and planets are represented in the 
various formats in different part of our country and in western 
countries. In each formats there are 12 parts which represent 
12 signs and 12 Houses. The different styles are as under:- 


85 


1. North — Indian style: 


In this style houses are fixed and depending upon sign of 
Ascendant all houses are serially numbered anticlockwise. 


2. South Indian Style : 


In this style signs are fixed as indicated but no numbering is 
done. The sign of ascendant is indicated by putting arrow sign 
or writing ‘ascendant’ in that particular sign and then all houses 
are counted form this sign serially clockwise. 


86 


3. East Indian Style: 


This is exactly as per 
south Indian style i.e. 
signs are fixed. In the 
format used in Bengal, 
number of Nakshtra is 
also indicated 
alongwith planets. If 
number of Nakshtra is 
removed, then it 
becomes the formats 
used in Bihar or 
Mithila. In Orissa also 
same format is used 
excepts that Nakshtra 
is indicated only 
alongwith Moon. 


3. Western Style 


Aries 


20, 
. Libra a, ; 
Virg NA 
Scorpio 
Bengali 
11th 
9th 
12th 10th 8th 
Ist 
2nd 4th 6th 
Oriya 


In the Western System, circular 
format is used houses are fixed 
signs/planets are indicated by 
their respective symbols 
anticlockwise. 


87 


6. DASA — PADDATI & PREDICTIONS 


Whatever may be the planetary position in a horoscope, life 
ofa native does not remain uniform. Life is a cycle of good 
and bad periods. During course of life, native has to face many 
obstacles, hardships etc. to protect his rights and achieve suc- 
cess, fight against environment and circumstances. Contrary 
to this, many times success in achieved without any significant 
efforts. This phenomenon can best be explained by Dasa — 
Paddati. According to Main periods, Sub — periods and Sub 
—Sub — periods of different planets, native goes on getting 
the results. These results may be favourable or unfavoruable 
depending upon overall strength of these planets in a horo- 
scope. 


Although number of Dasa— Systems have been in practice 
since ancient times, most important of these Dasa — Systems 
are :- 

Ie VIMSHOTTARI 

Z: ASHTOTTARI 

3: YOGINI 


1. VIMSHOTTARI: 


In this system life span has been taken as 120 years. This is 
based on Nakshtras. In this system cycle begins with Kritika 
Nakshtra whose ruler is Sun. Dasa period of native starts 
with his 


88 


Janma-—Nakshtra only. The period assigned to different plan- 
ets and various Nakshtras for which dasa ofa particular planet 
will be applicable can be explained by following table:- 


Planet un Moon Mars Rahu Jupiter 
Years 6 10 7 18 16 
Kritika Rohini Mrigshira Ardra Punarvasu 
Nak — Uttar— Hasta Chitra Swati Visakha 
Shtras Phalguni 
Uttar—  Shravana Dhanista Sat—bisag — Poorva- 
ashada bhadrapada 
Saturn Mercury Ketu Venus 
19 17 7 20 
Pusya Aslesha Magha Poorvaphalguni 
Anuradha Jyeshta Moola Poorvaashada 
Uttar bhadra pada Revati Aswini Bharni 
2. AAHTOTTARI: 


In this system life span has been considered as 108 years. 
This is also based on Nakshtras. 28 Nakshtras are consid- 
ered in this system. This additional Nakshtra is called 
‘ABHIJIT’ which is the 4" pad of Uttar Ashada and 15" 
part of beginning of Shravana. ‘Abhijit’ Nakshtra has been 
added in the honour of Sri Ran Chandra Ji as he was sup- 
posed to be born in this part of Rasi. This Nakshtra has been 
considered benefic and its lord is Jupiter. This system has 8 
planets as there is no place for Ketu. 


89 


Generally cycle is started from Ardra Nakshtra and therefore 
this system is also known as Ardradi— Dasha. Some astrolo- 
gers consider the beginning of cycle from Kritika Nakshtra 
and in that case it is known as Kritikadi— Dasha. There are 
different theories of applying Ardradi and Kritakadi Dasha 
systems. These are as under: - 


Ardradi 


According to Brihat— Parasher, if there is any planet in lagna, 
Ardradi is used. According to other theories if Rahu is pos- 
ited in 4", 7", 10", 5, and 9" houses from lagnesh, Ardradi 
is used. 


Kritikadi 


According to Brihat — Parasher if there is no planet in lagna, 
Kritikadi is used. 

In Ardradi system starting from Ardra, 4 Nakshtras in ma- 
lefic planets and 3 Nakshtra in benefic planets are taken, 
whereas in Kritikadi system, starting from Kritika, four 
Nakshtras in benefic planets and 3 Nakshtras in Malefic plan- 
ets are taken. However total number of years in both the 
systems remains the same. 


The years assigned to various planets and Nakshtras in the 
case of Ardrai Ashottari Dasa system can be explained by 


the following table :- 
anet un oon ars ercury atu 
Years 6 15 8 17 10 


90 


Ardra Magha Hasta Anuradha — Poorva — 


ashada 
Nak- = Punarvasu Poorva- Chitra Jyestha Uttar — 
Shtras Pusya Phalguni = Swati Moola Ashada 
Aslesha Uttar - Visakha Abhijit 
Phalguni Shravana 
~ Jupiter” ——“‘C;O!)©€6€cRatULU™U™U™!™!™ChUe 
19 12 21 
Dhanista Uttar — bhadra Pada Kritika 
Satbisag Revati Rohini 
Poorva — bhadra pada Aswini bharni Mrigshira 
3. YOGINI: 


This system does not treat planets for their periods, rather 
periods belong to imaginary ‘Shaktis’ and which give results 
as their names stand for. In “Tantra Shastra’ there is a refer- 
ence of 8 yogini shaktis. They are said to be controlling the 
human destiny. It is considered that this Dasa — system was 
originated by Lord Shiva. These eight Yogini shaktis are 
Mangla, Pingla, Dhanya, Bhramri, Bhadrika, Ulka, Siddha 
and Sankata. In this Dasa system complete cycle is of 36 
years and the same is repeated after completion of 36 years. 
The ‘Saktis’, planets, years, Nakshtras and their results in 
this system can be explained from the following table:- 


Yogini Mangla Pingla Dhanya  Bhramri Bhadrika —_ 
Yeats) —« [ee = ee ee 
Lord Moon Sun Jupiter Mars Mercury 
Result Favourable Unfavourable Favourable Unfavourable Favourable 
Nakshtras Ardra Punaruasu Pusya Aswini Bharani 


91 


Chitra Swati Visakha Aslesha Magha 

Shravana Dhanista Satbisag Anuradha  Jyestha 
Poorva Uttar— 
Bhadra pada Bhadra Pada 


Ulka iddha ankata 

6 gi 8 

Saturn Venus Rahu 
Unfavourable Favourable Unfavourable 
Kritika Poorva Phalguni Rohini Uttar—Phalguni Mrigshira Hasta 
Moola Revati Poorva -Ashada Uttar — Ashada 


After having discussed the different Dasa systems in vogue, 

let us analyze the conditions under which these are to be made 

use of. There are different theories. Let us look into these. 

(i) Man Sagri— According to Man Sagri, two conditions 
have been given under which Vimshottari or Ashtottari 
Dasa system are to be used : 

(a) Incase of birth during Shukla Paksha use Ashtottari and 
in Krishna Paksha use Vimshottari. 

(b) For southern part of ‘Vindhya’ mountain use Ashtottari 
and for northern part use Vimshottari. 

(i) Laghu Parashari — Ashottari is used in South India, 
Vimshottari is used in North India, while “Yogini’ is used 
in Punjab. 

(iii) Parashar Hora Shastra— Ashtottari is applied when birth 
is during day in Krishna Paksha or at night in Shukla 
Paksha. In the contrary condition Vimshottari is to be 
applied. 

(iv) Modern Concepts 


92 


(a) Ashtottari is used in Gujrat, Saurashtra, Katch, Panchal, 
Almora, and Sindh. 
(b) If birth during night in Shukla Paksha and during day in 
Krishna Paksha— Vimshottari is to be used. 
(c) If birth during day in Shukla Paksha and during night in 
Krishna Paksha — Ashtottari is to be used. 
(d) Ifbirth during Shukla Paksha or during day or during Hora 
of Sun — Vimshottari is to be used. 
(e) Ifbirth during Krishna Paksha or during night or during 
Hora of Moon — Ashtottari is to be used. 
Vimshottari Dasa system is considered to be best amongst all 
Dasa system. It is said that in the present kaliyug, best results 
can be obtained only be using Vimshottari Dasa System. 
Since most popular Dasa System is Vimshottari, we should 
know how to calculate Main period, sub periods and 
Sub—sub periods. As already discussed in the beginning Dasa 
Lord at the time of birth is the same as Lord of birth Nakshtra. 
Balance Dasa at the time of birth can be found by longitude of 
moon and balance period will be proportional to the part of 
Nakshtra, which has already passed at the time of birth. 
To find out Sub — period, either of the following method can 
be used:- 
(1)Sub period = Dasa Lord Period x Sub— planets period 
Years 
120 
e.g. if we have to find sub — period of Moon in the main 
period of Sun then Moon’s sub — period will be 


93 


6x 10 =_1 year =6 months. 

120 Z 

(ii)Sub — period = Dasa lord period x sub — planet period x 
3 days e.g. Moon’s sub period of Sun will be 6 x 10 x 3 days 
= 180 days = 6 months. 

(iii)Multiply period in years to both Dasa Lord & Sub planet. 
Last digit of this multiplication multiplied by 3 gives days and 
balance digits give months of sub — period. For example for 
calculating Sun’s sub — period in the main period of Sun mul- 
tiply 6 x 6 = 36. Last digit of this multiplication i.e., 6 when 
multiplied by 3 i.e. 18 are the days and balance digit i.e. 3 is 
the number of months. Therefore Sun’s sub — period in the 
main period of Sun is 3 months and 18 days. 

To find out Sub-—sub period, either of the following methods 
can be use:- 

(i)Sub — sub period 

Dasa Period x Sub planet period x sub sub planet period 
years 


120 x 120 
e.g. Moon’s sub—sub period in the sub period of Mars & in 
the main period of Sun will be 


6x7x1l0 = 420 __.. 
120 x 120 120 x 120 


=_7. years or7_.x 360 days =21 days or 10 days 12 hrs. 
240 240 2 


94 


(1i)Sub — sub period: 

Dasa period x sub planet period x sub sub planet period 

Days 
40 

Therefore, Sub — sub period of Moon in the Sub period of 
Mars in the main period of Sun will be : 

6x7xlOdays = 21 days =  10days 12 hrs. 

40 2 

After knowing the calculation of Dasa of main planet, sub 
planet and sub — sub planets, we have to consider the results. 
Any planet during its entire main period may not give uniform 
results. The results will vary depending upon the sub- periods 
lord. Out of these two, the planet, which is stronger, will be 
predominant in giving results. Therefore, it is absolutely nec- 
essary to have an idea of planet’s total strength which is a 
combination of Positional, Directional, Temporal, Motional, 
Permanent and Aspect strength. 
All planets in their Dasa and their own sub — period do not 
give auspicious or inauspicious results according to their na- 
ture. Even Marak planets do not become killer in such a situ- 
ation. The relation between Dasa Lord and Sub — period lords 
can be of 6 kinds (I) Planets who are related and like, (11) 
Related but unlike, (iii) Related but neutrals, (iv) Unrelated 
and like, (v) Unrelated and unlike, and (vi) Unrelated but 
neutrals. Planets belonging to 1 category give most auspi- 
cious results in the sub — period. After that planets go on 
giving comparatively lesser and lesser effects. 


95 


During the main Dasa of malefic planets the results are invari- 
ably unfavourable in the sub — period of unrelated benefics, 
mixed results in the sub — period of related benefics and these 
results are specially bad in the Sub — period of unrelated Yog 
Karakas. Marak Planets do not become a killer during the 
main Dasa and sub — period of related benefics. Rather they 
become Marak during the period of unrelated malefics. 


VIMSOTTARI DASA AND ANTARDASA 


Antardasa Sun (Ravi)—6 Moon (Chandra) — 10 Mars (Mangala) — 7 


Sub Periods Total Sub Periods Total Sub Periods Total 

Y MD Y MD Y MD YM Y MD Y MD 
18 0 3 18 
0 9 18 


6 


96 


AntardasaRahu - 18 Jupiter (Brihaspati) —- 16 Saturn (Sani) — 19 
Sub PeriodsTotal Sub PeriodsTotal Sub Periods Total 


Y MD Y MD Y MD YM D Y MD Y MD 
Rahu 2 8 12 - oe - oe ee 
Jupiter2 4 24 18 1 
Saturn 2 10 
Mercury2 6 
Ketu 1 0 
Venus 3 0 


AntardasaMercury (Budha) - 17 Ketu-— 7 Venus (Sukra) — 20 
Sub Periods Total Sub Periods Total Sub Periods 


Y MD Y MD Y MD YM D Y MD 
Mercury2 27 4 27 - - 38 
Ketu 0 27 24 27 - 

Venus 2 3 


ea 


Balance of Vimsottari Dasa by Longitude of Moon 


Long of Moon in Aries Moon in Taurus Moon in Gemini, Moon in Cancer 
Moon Sagg Virgo, Capricorn Libra, Aquarius Scorpio, Pisces 
oO 


d Ss M 
0 U 


md J 
0 A 60 U 
0 27 N R 3. 27 

0 24 S 1 24 


21 
15 


9 9 


oN NO FO Ne NY CO 8B 


7 6 


y y 
7 3 
6 3 
6 3 
6 2 
6 18 2 
6 2 
5 2 
5 2 
5 2 
5 


5) 3 


aN 
N 
aN 


Long of Moon in Aries Moon in Taurus Moon in Gemini, Moon in Cancer 
Moon Leo, Sagg Virgo, Capricorn Libra, Aquarius = Scorpio, Pisces 


e mt KS md § d My mdS ymd 
20 E 3 0 U A 190 A 190 0 
40 T 0 27N R 1 6 27T 186 9 
U 10 24 S 24 U 180 18 
8 21 21 R 176 27 
6 18 N 171 
4 15 167 
2 12 161 
0 158 
152 
148 


DNA An fk HP HP WW wW 


y 
5 
5 
4 
4 
4 
4 
4 
4 
3 
3 


98 


Balance of Vimsottari Dasa by Longitude of Moon 


Long of Moon in Aries Moon in Taurus Moon in Gemini, Moon in Cancer 
Moon Leo, Sagg Virgo, Capricorn Libra, Aquarius Scorpio, Pisces 
2 “ K md § md RywmdS ymd 
40 E 6 0 U 6 0 A 180 0 A 143 0 
0 T 27 N 4 H 176 18 T 139 9 
20 U 24 2 12 U 171 U 133 18 
40 21 0 18 167 R 129 27 
10 24 162 N 124 6 

9 159 111015 
7 153 18 114 24 
5 14106 10113 
3 144 24 105 12 
131112 9 1121 


NO NY NY NY NY NY WW WwW Ke 


6 
7 
7 
i) 
8 
8 
8 
9 
9 
9 


— 


Long of Moon in Aries Moon in Taurus Moon in Gemini, Moon in Cancer 
Moon Leo, Sagg Virgo, Capricorn Libra, Aquarius Scorpio, Pisces 


g “Ky mdMymdR»ymdS ymd 
10 0 E19 0 0 100 0 136 0 A 
20 T 1 27 0 130 18 T 

40 U 24 N 127 U 

R 

N 


\o 
\o 
\o 


21 121 
18 118 
15 113 
12 109 
104 
9 1024 
9 5 12 


Noaonaonwnewnewowo © 0 
oO WR Dn DOD OD WwW DBD 
SS 2.0 2 2:8. 346 <<. 
Ann nn sn © CO 


oe 


Balance of Vimsottari Dasa by Longitude of Moon 


Long of Moon in Aries Moon in Taurus Moon in Gemini, Moon in Cancer 
Moon Leo, Sagg Virgo, Capricorn Libra, Aquarius Scorpio, Pisces 
° “ Vy mdM R 
13 20 E 20 
13 40 N 19 
14 0 U 19 
14 18 
14 18 
15 17 
15 17 
15 16 
16 16 
16 


m d y md 
0 0 
6 18 


At 
tat 


o 
o 


oO 
oO 
N 


A 
H 
U 


NnoOoDTDTADA CAO AD 

oS: 2S Sy SS ©. ae Se 
Annnnnann nan 

WH Nn DOW nD DOWD B 
ooovuUcrcmmCoUlcOCUlCcOCUUlcOCUUlcOCUlUcOlUlr 
& Nn Nn an lon a ol io) oo \o 


Long of Moon in Aries Moon in Taurus Moon in Gemini, Moon in Cancer 
Moon Leo, Sagg Virgo, Capricorn Libra, Aquarius Scorpio, Pisces 


2 ‘“ Vy mdM y 


3 


d RymdMymd 


16 E15 
17 N 14 
17 U 14 
17 Ss 13 
18 13 
18 12 
18 12 
19 11 
19 11 
19 10 


A 6 0 170 0 
H 0 166 27 
U 7 161 24 
158 21 
153 18 
141015 
145 12 
140 9 
137 6 
132 3 


Zoo 


DnoOoD DATA TGA SS 
eS Re a a 
NV BW Ww WwW WwW fF HR LP Hw 
oO We Dn DOD We HD Oo SO 
oococmUcOmUCcOoOcUCcCOCOUCOCUCOCOCUCUCOCUCUCO 


100 


Balance of Vimsottari Dasa by Longitude of Moon 


Long of Moon in Aries Moon in Taurus Moon in Gemini, Moon in Cancer 
Moon Leo, Sagg Virgo, Capricorn Libra, Aquarius Scorpio, Pisces 
9 “ Vy d My d J ymd Mymd 


160 129 0 
157 1233227 
152 111024 
149 115 21 
144 110 18 
140 107 15 
137 102 12 
132 99 9 
129 9 4 6 
124 8 113 


20 
20 
20 
21 
21 
21 
22 
22 
22 
23 


O 2 
O 2 
N 2 


Nn lon lon ol ~ io) oo \o 
NSCoDODSOCHDSCAH OS 8B 
CS. Bee: OS a ae ae: Ee 
YH Hn DOW nD OD DW an =} 
CS OO Se. SO 


Long of Moon in Aries Moon in Taurus Moon in Gemini, Moon in Cancer 
Moon Leo, Sagg Virgo, Capricorn Libra, Aquarius Scorpio, Pisces 
° “Vv m dM y JIoymd 


23 20 E 120 
23 40 N 117 
24 U 112 
24 Ss 109 
24 104 
25 100 
25 Ox 
25 
26 
26 


Oo 
So 


A 
R 
S 


NN ww RR UK 
DR SCHCA CA Ca 
coococcoc oC OCC OCC CO Co 
Ann nanavanaana 
han aA an ana ~s ~) 


9 2 
8 9 
8 4 


101 


Balance of Vimsottari Dasa by Longitude of Moon 


Long of Moon in Aries Moon in Taurus Moon in Gemini, Moon in Cancer 
Moon Leo, Sagg Virgo, Capricorn Libra, Aquarius = Scorpio, Pisces 
“ Sy Joym 


26 40 U 6 
27, 0 N 5 
27 20 
2:7. 
28 
28 
28 
29 
29 
29 
30 


0 ee 
DnrA CRF KF WK D 
BPP UNUM DDAAnN OO 
oF ON NO BONN CO 


PROPORTIONAL PARTS FOR DASA OF PLANETS 


(To be subtracted from the balance of dasa for increase by 
minutes of the longitude of Moon ) 


(10y) (Ty) (18y) (l6y) (19y) ec 
M Y MD YM 


0 8 
16 


—) 


7 
14 
22 
29 
6 


0 : 
0 

0 

0 

1 

1 13 
1 

1 

2 

2 

3 

4 


17 
26 
4 

13 
21 
20 
28 
5 

12 
18 
24 


1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
1 
1 
2 


0 
5 
0 


rPreoooccocoococoeoo 
WNrRrRrRrR OCOCCOK 
NrRrRocoocoocoocoy 
ABNNNNRFRRrR OOCOOCHO 
MWNnNNNrr rE ooo; 


0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
1 
1 
2 


MNABNNNRF Rr KF OO 


102 


CALCULATION OF MAIN PERIODS and SUB PERIODS 
VIMSHOTTARI DASA SYSTEM:- 


The details of Vimshottari Dasa and periods assigned to 
different planets have already been discussed above. The main 
period running at a particular time will be the lord of Nakshtra 
in which Moon is posited. Depending upon the longitude of 
Moon and by calculating the degrees of the particular Nakshtra 
already passed, we can calculate balance of dasa of main 
planet on proportionate basis However for this purpose we 
can make use of above table which serves as a ready reekoner 
to calculate balance of main period depending upon the 
longitude of moon. 


Example 1. - Longitude of Moon given at the time of birth is 
6: 13° 20’. Calculate balance of main period at the time of 
birth. 

Ans: Moon isin Libra sign and therefore from the table if we 
see corresponding to 13° 12’ incolumn no. 3, we find the 
main dasha running is of Rahu and balance periods is 9 years 
0 months 0 Days. In this case Moon is in Swati Nakshtra 
whose lord is Rahu. 

Example 2. - Longitude of Moon given at a particular time is 
10: 27° 23’ Calculate balance of main period. 

Ans:- Moon in the case is in Aquarius sign and in Purva 
Bhadrapad Nakshtra whose lord is Jupiter. Therefore main 
period running should be of planet Jupiter whose total period 
is 16 years. 


103 


If we make use of the above table, we see that corresponding 
to 27° 20’ when moon is in Aquarius sign, the main period 
running is of Jupiter and balance period is 12 years. For 3’ 
using ‘Proportional Parts for Dasa of Planets table, we find 
that corresponding to 3’ and Jupiter 0 month and 22days are 
to be further subtracted. Therefore balance main period will 
be (12y 0M OD—0M 22D) =11 years 11 Months and 8 
Days. 


Calculation of sub —periods and sub—sub periods has already 
been explained while discussing Vinshottari Dasa System. 


YOGINI DASA SYSTEM :- 


For finding out the main period whose dasa is running we 
calculate the number of Nakshtra (From | to 27) in which 
Moon is posited. Then we find the remainder from the formula 
Number Of Nakshtra +3 

8 
Depending on the remainder from 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 0 the 
main period will be of Mangla, Pingla, Dhanya, Bhramari, 
Bhadrika, Ulka, Siddha and Sankata respectively. 
For example if Moon is in Pusya Nakahara i.e. in 8, the 
remainder in the calculation (8+3 =_11) will be 3 i.e. the 

8 8 

The main period running will be of Dhanya Yogini dasha. If 
Moon is in Revati Nakshtra i.e. in 27, the remainder in the 
calculation 


(27+3/8 = 30/8) will be 61.e. the main period running 


104 


will be of Ulka. 


The balance main period of Yogini dasha can be calculated 
on proportionate basis depending upon the longitude of 
nakshtra already passed .e.g. if longitude of moon given is 3° 
7° 1’, moon is in Pusya nakshtra and therefore Yogini main 
dasa running should be of Dhanya as mentioned above. Pusha 
Nakshtra commences from 3$ 3° 20’ and ends at 3‘ 16° 40’ 
and therefore balance of nakshtra remaining is (3° 16°40’ - 
3° 7° 1’)ie.9° 39’ i.e. 579’ whereas total duration of 
nakshtra is 13° 20’ i.e. 800’. Total period of Yogini Dhanya 
Dasa is 3 years i.e. 3 x 360 days. 


Therefore balance main period shall be 
3_x 360 x 579 = 782 
800 
days = 2 years 2 months and 2 days of Dhanya yogini dasa. 


To Calculate the sub — periods in yogini dasa we have the 
multiplier 360/36 = 10 days. To calculate sub periods of 
any main period the multiplier is multiplied by no of years of 
main period and no. of years of sub — period which is to be 
calculated. 


For example if we want to find out sub — period of Dhanya in 
main period of Mangla dasa, the same will be 10 x 5x 6 = 
300 days = 10 months. 


The sub — period of different yogini dasa are indicated in the 
following table;- 


105 


Sub Periods of Mangla Dasa (1 Year) 

Sub Periods Mang Ping. Dhan. Bhra. Bhad. Ulka Sid. — San. 
Month 0 0 1 1 1 2 2 2 
Days 10 20 0 10 20 - 10 20 
Sub Periods of Pingla Dasa (2 Years) 

Sub Periods Ping. Dhan. Bhra. Bhad. Ulka. Sid. Sank. Mang. 


Month 1 2 2 3 4 4 2) 0 
Days 10 - 20 10 - 20 10 20 


Sub Periods of Dhanya Dasa (3 Years) 
Sub Periods Dhan. Bhra. Bhad. Ulka Sid. Sank. Mang. Ping. 


Month 3 4 5 6 7 8 1 2 
Days - - - - - - - - 


Sub Periods of Bhramari Dasa ( 4 Years) 

Sub Periods Bhra. Bhad. Ulka Sid. Sank. Mang. Ping. Dhan. 
Month 5 6 8 9 10 1 2, 4 
Days 10 20 - 10 20 10 20 - 
Sub Periods of Bhadrika Dasa (5 Years) 

Sub Periods Bhad. Ulka Sid. San. Man. Pin. Dha. Bhra. 
Month 8 10 11 13 1 3 5 6 
Days 10 - 20 10 20 10 - 20 
Sub Periods of Ulka Dasa ( 6 Years) 

Sub Periods Ulka Sid. San. Man. Pin. Dha. Bhra. Bhad. 


Month 12 14 16 2 4 6 8 10 
Days - - - - - - - - 


106 


Sub Periods of Siddha Dasa (7 Years) 

Sub Periods — Sid. San. Man. Pin. Dha. Bhra Bhad. Ulka 
Month 16 18 2 4 7 9 11 14 
Days 10 20 10 20 - 10 20 - 
Sub Periods of Sankata Dasa (8 Years) 

Sub Periods San. Man. Pin. Dha. Bhra. Bhad. Ulka Sid. 


Month 21 2 > 8 10 13 16 18 
Days 20 20 10 - 20 10 - 20 


107 


7. DIVISIONAL CHARTS 


Each House of Lagna chart denotes various significations e.g. 
various significations of some of the house are as under:- 


Second House:- 
Family, Wealth, Health of spouse, Longevity of self, art 
collection, right eye, speech etc. 


Fourth House:- 

Mother, House, Land, Happiness, education, conveyance, 
success in examinations, friends, property, general comforts, 
heart, domestic life, accident of road, rail or walking etc. 


Twelfth House:- 


Harm, Punishment received, confinement, expenditure, 
donations (given), marriage, vedic sacrifices, fines paid, sexual 
enjoyment outside wedlock, contacting sexually transmitted 
diseases, weakness in sexual acts, loss of wife, losses in 
matriage, separation from own people etc. 


The above indicates that various significations of each House 
touch almost every aspect of life. All these aspects are not 
simultaneously good or bad in one’s life. Divisional charts help 
us by isolating the event governed by a particular divisional 
chart from those governed by a House. 


Divisional charts are studied and analyzed for following two 
purposes :- 


1. Tosee the strength ofa planet by observing its placement 
in various divisions. 


108 


2. For identifying the results ofa particular sector of life by 
studying the corresponding divisional chart along with the 
concerned house in natal (birth) chart. 


Although there is a mention of large no. of divisional charts in 
various texts of Astrology, sixteen divisional charts known as 
Shodasvargas are considered more important and relevant to 
important aspects of life. The details of these charts are as 


under:- 
S. Name of Divisional 
Chart 
1 Rasi Full /30° 
2 Hora Y% Part/15° 
3 Decante or 1/3 Part/10° 
Drekkana 
4  Chathurthamsa 1/4" Part/ 7° 30’ 
or Turyamsa 
5 Sapthamamsa 1/7" Part/ 4°17’8.57” 
6 Navamamsa 1/9 Part/ 3°20’ 
7 Dasamamsa 1/10 Part/ 3° 
8 Dwadasamsa 1/12" Part/ 2° 30’ 
9 Shodasamsa 1/16" Part/ 1° 52’ 30” 
10 Vimsamsa 1/20" Part 1°30’ 


Part of Sign Purpose (To 
Study) 


General well being 
Wealth 


Happiness from 
coborn, initiative. 


Fortune, Net Assets 


Dynasty, Progeny and 
Happiness therefrom 


Spouse, general fortune, 
Marital happiness, 
Religious pursuits 


Professions, fame, power, 
position. 


Parents 


Conveyance and related 
happiness 


Worship, spiritual progress, 
religious activities 


109 


11 Chatur vimsamsa 
or Siddhamsa 


12 Sapthavimsamsa or 
Bhamsa or Nakshtramsa 


13. Trimsamsa 1/30" Part/ 1” 


14 Khavedamsa 1/40" Part/ 45’ 


15 Akshavedamsa 1/45" part/ 40’ 


16 Shashtiamsa — 1/60" part / 30’ 


1/24" Part/1°15’ 

Vedic, Mantric, Tantric, 
Cultural, Social, Physical and 
general education 
(Academic achievements) 


1/27" Part/ 1° 6’ 40” 
Physical strength and strain 


Happiness and miseries, 
evils, 

misfortune, chastity in 
female horoscope 


Auspicious and 
inauspicious effects 


Character and Conduct 


All general indications 


Apart from above Shodasvargas, we also find reference to 
SHADVARGA, SAPTAVARGA and DASVARGA. The 
various divisional charts referred to by these are as under:- 


Shadvarga : Rasi, Hora, Decante, Navamsa, 
Dwadasamsa, and Trimsamsa. 


Saptvarga :- Add Saptamansa in Shadvarga. 
Dasvarga :- Add Shodasamsa, Dasamamsa and 
Shashtiamsa in Saptavarga. 


110 


GENERAL PRINCIPLES FOR ANALYSING 
DIVISIONAL CHARTS 


1. Divisional charts are not independant like Rasi chart. An 
event can take place only when it is indicated in Rasi chart. 
Event should not be predicted on the basis of divisional 
chart alone. 


2. Aplanet becomes powerful if it is exalted, situated in his 
own sign, possesses digbala in divisional chart. 


3. Indivisional chart planets in 4", 7", and 10" houses give 
very good results. They give good results in 5", 9" and 
11" houses, whereas the 2nd house is neutral in all the 
divisional charts. 


4. Any planet situated in 3", 8" and 12" from ascendant of 
a divisional chart gives bad result during his period. Exalted 
planets situated in these houses become powerless to give 
good results. 


5. Benefics on both sides of ascendant of a divisional chart 
or of a planet increase good effects. Similarly malefics on 
both sides increase bad effects. 


6. Principles of Dasa—Bhukti are also applied to divisional 
charts to judges the effects. 


7. Theeffects of transits are also judged from divisional chart. 


8. A debilitated planet in divisional chart gives bad results in 
his Dasa or Bhukti concerning aspect of life denoted by 
that divisional chart unless there is a cancellation of 
debilitation e.g. Debilitated planet in 


111 


Navamsa - causes problems in married 
Sapthamsa - causes unhappiness about children. 


Chaturvimsamsa - causes dislocation or obstacles in 
education. 


9. Any planet placed in 3" or 8" house in any divisional 
chart causes death like effects during his Dasa or Bhaukti. 


e.g. To spouse in Navamsa 
To profession in Dasamsa (like retirement or resignation) 
10. A Planet situated in the same sign both in Rasi chart and 
any divisional chart is called ‘Vargottam’ with reference 
to that divisional chart. The results of Vargottam planets 
are always good. The results of Vargottam planets as per 
different astrological texts are as under:- 
Saravali - Good Results 
Chandrakalanadi - Results of Rajyoga and enjoyment 
Phaladipika - Results as if planet is placed in own sign 
Let us now see how various divisional charts are cast and 


what are the principles of interpretation of some of the 
important divisional charts. 


112 


HORA (2 PARTS OF 15 degree each) 


Since Hora chart is studied to know about the wealth of native, 
the same is studied in conjunction with second house of lagna 
chart. In respect of odd signs first Hora is of Sun whereas 
second Hora is of Moon. In even signs first Hora is of Moon 
whereas second Hora is of Sun. In Hora chart Rahu and Ketu 
are always together. 


Signs Hora Lord Hora Lord 


(0-15°) (15-30°) 
1 Sun Moon 
2 Moon Sun 
3 Sun Moon 
4 Moon Sun 
5 Sun Moon 
6 Moon Sun 
7 Sun Moon 
8 Moon Sun 
9 Sun Moon 
10 Moon Sun 
11 Sun Moon 
12 Moon Sun 


1B Fe 


The various ways of representation of planets in Hora chart 
are as under: - 


ae Nes 
_ LEYNXKSS 
(ii) 


Planets are indicated either in Hora of Moon (4) or in Hora 
of Sun (5) depending on their position. 

Example:- 

Caste the Hora chart for the given longitude of planets: - 


114 


Ascendant 58§— 15°- 57’ 


Sun 


1s— 49-11 


Moon 108 — 27° — 26’ 
Mars 6° — 11°-— 24’ 
Mercury 0s — 12° — 34’ 


Jup. 
Ven. 
Sat 


Os — 12°34’ 
0'— 249-2” 
5815" 28° 


Rahu 108 — 2° — 44’ 
Ketu 4s — 2° — 44’ 
Principles of interpretation of Hora chart: 


1. 


Jupiter, Sun and Mars give pronounced effects in Hora of 
Sun. The Moon, Venus and Saturn do so in Moon’s Hora. 
Mercury is equally effective in both Horas. 


Incase of even Rasi, the Hora of Moon with be powerful. 
In odd Rasi, Sun’s Hora will be powerful. 


The effect due to a Hora will be derived fully if planet is in 
the first one-third part of Hora. The effect will be medium 
or nil according to the placement being in second or third 
part of Hora. 


During operational period of planets placed in Hora of 
Sun, a native ears and accumulates wealth by own efforts. 
During the planets placed in Hora of Moon, earning and 
accumulation of wealth comes natural i.e. without much 
effort. 


115 


DECANTE/ DREKKANA 


(3 Parts of 10 degree each) 


This chart is studied in conjunction with third house of Lagna 
chart. The first Drekkna (0 —10°) ofany sign is of the some 
sign, second Drekkna ( 10 — 20°) is fifth from sign and third 
Drekkna (20 — 30°) is ninth from sign. 

123 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 IU 12 
I*Drekkana 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Il 12 
(0 - 10°) 
2*Drekkana 55 6 7 8 9 10 11 121 2 3 4 
(10 —20°) 
3°Drekkana 9 10 HL 12 1 2 3 45 6 7 8 
(20 - 30°) 

The Drekkana chart of example gives in Hora chart will 
be as under :- 


116 


There are 12 signs and each sign has three Drekkna and 
therefore there are total 36 Drekkna. Each Drekkna has 
certain characteristics, 


which are described as under :- 
CHARCTERSTICS OF 36 DREKKANA 


1. ARIES : 


(a) 1 Drekkana: - Man witha white cloth round his waist, 
dark complexion, pretending to protest, fearful red eyes 
and a lifted axe — masculine, armed, ruler Mars. 

(b) 2" Drekkana: - Woman with red cloth, fond of ornaments 
and food, pot belly, horseface, vinsty and single footed — 
feminine ruler Sun. 

(c) 3"! Drekkana: - Man, cruel, skilled in arts, yellowish, fond 
of work, unprincipled, with a lifted up stick, angry and 
covered with purple clothes — masculine, armed, ruler 
Jupiter. 


2. TAURUS:- 

(a) 1% Drekkana: - Woman with torn ringlets, pot belly, burnt 
cloth, thirsty, fond of food and ornaments — feminine, fiery, 
ruler Venus. 

(b) 2™ Drekkana: - Man possessing knowledge of lands, 
grains, houses, cows, arts, ploughing and carts, hungry, 
sheep faced, dirty clothes and shoulders like the hump of 
an ox — masculine, quadruped, ruler Mercury. 


117 


(c) 3% Drekkana: - Man witha body like that ofan elephant, 
white teeth, legs like that of a Sarabh, yellowish colour 
and clever in capturing sheep and deer — masculine, 
quadruped, ruler Saturn. 


3. GEMINI:- 


(a) 1* Drekkana: - Female, fond of needlework, handsome, 
fond of ornamentation, issueless, lifted hands and in menses 
— feminine, ruler Mercury. 

(b) 2"¢ Drekkana: - Man, living in garden, in armour, witha 
bow, warlike, armed with weapons, face like that of 
Garuda, fond of play, children, ornamentation and wealth 
—masculine, armed, ruler Venus. 


(c) 3! Drekkana: - Man adorned, decked with gems, 
armoured with quiver and bow, skilled in dancing, 
drumming and arts and poet— masculine, ruler Saturn. 


4. CANCER:- 


(a) 1 Drekkana: - Man, holding fruits, roots and leaves, 
elephant bodied, residing on sandal trees in the forest, 
legs like that of sarabha and horse necked — quadruped, 
masculine, ruler Moon. 


(b) 2™ Drekkana: - Female worshipped on the head by lotus 
flowers, with serpents, full blown youthfulness, living in 
forests on branch of phalasa and crying-feminine, ruler 
Mars. 


(c) 3 Drekkana: - Man covered with serpents, flat faced, 


118 


crossing the ocean in a boat in search of wife’s jewels- 
masculine, serpent, ruler Jupiter. 


5. LEO:- 


(a) 1*Drekkana:- Vulture and jackal on the Salmali tree, 
a dog and a man dressed in dirty garments, leaving father 
and mother and crying — masculine, quadruped, ruler Sun. 


(b) 2" Drekkana :- Man resembling a horse’s body with 
white garlands on the head, wearing krishnajina and 
kambalam, fierce as a lion with a bow in the hand and 
bent nose— masculine, ruler Jupiter. 


(c) 3% Drekkana:- Man with a bear’s face, acts like those 
of a money, long beard, curbed ringlets and holding a 
stick, fruit and flesh — masculine, quadruped, ruler Mars. 


6. VIRGO :- 


(a) 1* Drekkana :- Female with a pot, full of flowers, 
covering the body with dirty garments, fond of money 
and clothes, and going to the home of the preceptor — 
feminine, ruler Mercury. 

(b) 2™ Drekkana :- Man with a pen in the hand, dark 
complexion, the head tied round by a cloth, counting gains 
and expenditure, covered over the body with dense hair 
and holding a big bow — masculine, ruler Saturn. 

(c) 3? Drekkana :- Female, yellowish, covered by a white 
silk cloth, tall holding a pot and a spoon, going to a temple 
with great sanctity — feminine, ruler Venus. 


119 


7. LIBRA:- 


(a) 1“ Drekkana:- Man seated in a shop in the middle of 
the road, holding balances, clever in weighing and 
measuring with a small scale for weighing gold, diamonds, 
and thinking of his capital and the prices of the articles in 
the shop — masculine, ruler Venus. 


(b) 2"? Drekkana :- Man witha vulture’s face, hungry and 
thirsty, holding a pot which is ready to fall and thinking of 
his wife and children — masculine, ruler Saturn. 


(c)3™ Drekkana :- Man decked with gems, wearing golden 
quiver and armour and frightening and animals in the 
wilderness, resembling a monkey and holding in the hand 
fruits and flesh — masculine, quadruped, ruler Mercury. 


8. SCORPIO:- 


(a) 1st Drekkana :- Woman naked and without ornaments, 
coming from the middle of a great ocean to the shore, 
dislocated from her original place, the feet bound by 
serpents and handsome — feminine, serpent, ruler Mars. 


(b) 2™ Drekkana :- Woman fond of home and happiness 
for her husband’s sake and covered by serpents with a 
body resembling a tortoise and a pot — feminine, serpent, 
ruler Jupiter. 

(c) 3% Drekkana :- Lion witha broad flat face, resembling 
a tortoise, frightening dogs, deer, boars and jackals, 
protecting localities covered with sandalwood trees — 
masculine, quadruped, lion, ruler Moon. 


120 


9. SAGITTARIUS :- 


(a) 1** Drekkana :- Man with a human face and a horse’s 
body with a bow in hand residing in a hermitage, protecting 
sacrificial articles and Maharishis — masculine, quadruped, 
armed, ruler Jupiter. 


(b) 2"! Drekkana :- Woman, handsome, with the colour of 
Champaca or gold, picking up the gems from the ocean 
and sitting in the Bhadrasana fashion— feminine, ruler Mars. 


(c) 3% Drekkana :- Man witha long beard, complexion like 
that of Champaca or gold, holding a stick, sitting in a 
splendid posture and keeping silks and deer skins — 
masculine, armed, ruler Sun. 


10.CAPRICORN :- 


(a) 1% Drekkana :- Man covered with much hair, teeth like 
those of a crocodile, body like that ofa pig, keeping yokes, 
nets and bandages, and with a cruel face — masculine, 
Nigala, ruler Saturn. 


(b) 2™ Drekkana :- Woman, skilled in arts, broad eyes like 
lotus petals, greenish dark, searching all kinds of articles 
and wearing iron ear ornaments — feminine, ruler Venus. 


(c) 3 Drekkana :- Man, with a body like that of Kinnaras, 
with a Kambalam, with a quiver arrows and bow, and 
bearing a pot on the shoulder decked with gems — 
masculine, armed, ruler Mercury. 


121 


11. AQUARIUS :- 


(a) 1“ Drekkana :- Man with a mind disturbed by oils, wines, 
water and food being brought to him, with a Kambala, 
silk cloth and deer skin and a face resembling that ofa 
vulture — masculine, ruler Sani. 


(b) 2! Drekkana :- Woman, covered with a dirty cloth in a 
forest, bearing pots on her head and dragging metals ina 
burnt cart loaded with cotton trees in it— fiery, feminine, 
ruler Mercury. 


(c) 3"! Drekkana :- Man dark, with ears covered with long 
hair, wearing a crown and wandering with pots filled with 
iron, skin, leaves, gum and fruits— masculine ruler Venus. 


12. PISCES:- 


(a) 1* Drekkana :- Man decked with ornaments, holding in 
hand sacrificial vessels, pearls, gems and conch shells and 
crossing the ocean in a boat in search of jewels for his 
wife— masculine, ruler Jupiter. 


(b) 2"! Drekkana :- Woman with a colour more beautiful than 
that of Champaka, surrounded by her attendants, and sailing 
in a boat decked with long flags in search of the coast of 
the ocean — feminine, ruler Moon. 


(c) 3% Drekkana :- Man crying in a pit ina forest, naked and 
covered over his body by serpents and with a mind 
distracted by thieves and fire — masculine, serpent, ruler. 


122 


Depending upon characteristics of different Drekkna, these 
have been classified into following groups:- 


So EO Ae 


AYUDHA 
SARPA 

NIGADA (BEDI) 

PAKSHI 

CHATUSPADA 

VARAHA 

PASHA (PHANSI OR HANGING) 


Uses and Principles of Drekkna Chart 


1. 


(a) 


(b) 
(c) 
(d) 


This chart is very useful in knowing the success or 
otherwise of journey undertaken by native. Result of 
rising Drekkna at the time of start of journey are predicted 
with reference to their form, action and nature :- 


If Drekkna is agreeable, bearing flowers, fruits, gems, 
treasure or aspected by benefics, prosperity will attend 
traveller’s march. 


If armed, will be victorious. 
Ifaspected by malefics, traveller will be defeated. 


If Drekkna happen to be serpent or bondage, the traveller 
will be disgraced or imprisoned or will die. 

The beginning dasha legal case under Article 302 or 
verdict of this case in Pasha Drekkna means getting death 
punishment or hanging. 


123 


If there is chatuspada Drekkna and it has the aspect of 
malefic planets, it causes death of cattle’s in native’s 


house. There should be no purchase as of cattle’s in such 
Drekkna. 


Characteristics of Drekkna helps to determine the nature, 
appearance and other peculiarities ofa person involved 
in theft in horary astrology. In a question connected with 
theft, the following indicate various aspects of theft:- 


Lagna :- Time when article has been stolen away or 
lost, direction in which taken, place from where it is lost 
and locality in which it is deposited or concealed. 


Lagna Lord : Age and caste of thief 


Navamsa : Thenature of article lost 

Drekkna : Nature and form of thief. 

3. Study of Drekkna helps us to analyze general 
characteristics of persons. For this purpose depending 
upon characteristics of each Drekkna, these have been 
divided into four groups namely kroor, watery, saumya 
and mixed. The characteristics of persons born under 
these rising Drekkna will be as under:- 

(a) KROOR :- Evilor wicked minded, wandering nature, 
engaged in wicked and sinful deeds, quarrelsome. 

(b) WATERY :- Giver ofalms, pleasure loving, kind hearted, 


124 


getting wealth by farming or through watery objects ( 
Fish etc) large bodied and emotional 


(c) SAUMYA :- Kind hearted, handsome, happiness, 
prosperity. 

(d) MIXED :- ofbad conduct and character, extra marital 
relations, evil eyed, volatile nature. 


4. Source of death is predicted with reference to 
characteristic of rising Drekkna of 8" Bhava. The 
Drekkna falling in 8" Bhava is known as death bringing 
Drekkna. 


CHATHURTHAMSA/ TURYAMSA 


(4 Parts of 7°30’ each) 


This chart is studied in conjunction with 4" house of Lagna 
chart. The 1, 2"4, 37) and 4 Chathurthamsa are ruled 
respectively by the same sign, 4t" 7" and 10" signs therefrom. 


Signs 12 3 45 6 7 8 9 10 Il 2 


1“ Chath. 
(0—7°30") 12 3 45 67 8 9 10 ll 2 


2™ Chath. 
(7930’-15°9) 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Il 12 1 2 3 


3" Chath. 
(15°-22°30?) 7 8 9 10 11 2 1 2 3 4 =5 6 


4" Chath. 
(22930’-309) 10 11 121 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 


125 


Chathurthamsa chart of example gives in Hora chart will be 
as under:- 


Mer Vi0o0 
mp OK 
The fourth house, its lord and its significators, the 
Chathurthamsa Lagna and 4" house from the Chathurthamsa 


Lagna are studied to know the destiny of the native in the 
context of worldly pleasures and conveniences. 


SAPTHAMAMSA 


(7 Parts of 4°17’ 8.57” each) 


This chart is studied in conjunction with 5" house of Lagna 
chart. Apart from analyzing dynasty, progeny and happiness 
therefrom, it provides a very important clue regarding sex of 
child during particular dasa periods. The counting of 
Sapthamamsa commences from the same sign in case of odd 
signs like Aries, Gemini, etc and itcommences from the seventh 
sign in case of even signs like Taurus, Cancer etc. 


126 


Signs 123 4 56 7 8 9 0 ll 2 
1“ Sapth 05 27 2 9 4 I 6 
4°17°8.57" 


2" Sapth 29 4 W611 8 3 0 5 27 
8°34’ 17.84” 


3" Sapth 3 105 272 9 4 I 6 1 8 
12°51°25.71” 


4% Sapth 4 116 1 83 10 5 12 7 2 9 
17°8°34.28” 


5" Sapth 5 27 2 9 4 Ill 6 1 8 3 10 
21°25742.85” 


6" Sapth 6 1! 8 3 105 2 7 2 9 4 =I 
25°42’51.42” 


7" Sapth 7 29 4 116 1 8 3 05 2 
30° 


e 
oe} 
WwW 


Sapthamamsa Chart of example given in Hora chart will 
be as under:- 


SAPTHAMAMSA 


127 


To know the sex of child during a particular planetary period 
following principles are applied : 


(i) If Lagna of Sapthamamsa and its lord are strong and 
Jupiter occupies auspicious position form lagna, one is 
sure to be blessed with male progeny. 


Planets connected with Lagna, angular and trine houses 
in Sapthamamsa and auspiciously disposed promote 
matters of progeny in their own main/ sub periods. While 
male planets so connected occupying male signs bless 
with male progeny, the female planets bless female 


progeny. 


(il 


— 


NAVAMAMSA 


(9 Parts of 3°20’ each) 
The counting of Navamamsa in the various signs is an under :- 


In Moveable signs - From sign itself 


In fixed signs - From 9" from the sign 
In Dual signs - From 5" from the sign 
Rashi 123 45 6 78 9 0 Ill 12 
1 Nava 3°20’ 1 07 4 1 1074 11 0 7 4 


2"Nava. 6°40? 2 118 5 2 11 85 2 UH 8 5 


128 


34 Nava. 10° 
4" Nava. 13°20’ 
5" Nava. 16°40’ 
6" Nava. 20° 
7 Nava. 23°20’ 


8" Nava. 26°40’ 


9" Nava. 30° 


3 29 63 29 6 3 


12 


5 


9 63 29 6 3 12 9 6 


9 6 
10 7 
ll 8 
2 9 
1 10 
Z> VA 
3. «12 


Navamamsa chart of example given in Hora chart will be as 


under:- 


Navamamsa 


The designations of the names of Navamamsa are in the 
following orders:- 
For Movable signs - Deva (Divine), Manushya (Human) 


and Rakshasa (Devil) 


129 


For Fixed signs - Manushya, Rakshasa, Deva 
For Duel signs - Rakshsa, Manushya, Deva 
The attainment of a person in life are solely dependant on 
successful married life, that is why, in kalachakra, the house 
opposite lagna has been allotted for marriage. Whether a 
person will have mental compatibility with spouse is considered 
with the relationship between Lagna/ Moon of Rasi chart with 
Lagna/ Moon of Navamamsa chart. The marriage may be 
both bliss and bane. The strong placement of seventh house, 
its lord and significator together with Moon and other houses 
connected with that i.e. 1‘ house (self health), 2"! House 
(family), 4" House ( domestic peace and general happiness 
of life), 5" House (progeny), 8"" House (sexual enjoyments), 
12 House (bed comforts), good position of these planets in 
Navamamsa with benefic influence on these provide the native 
with timely and happy marriage. On the other hand if these 
planets are weak by debilitation/ combustion/ placement in 
dushtasthanas/ debilitated in Navamamsa/ afflicted by 
association or aspect of malefic will make the marriage baneful. 
Navamamsa charts is considered so important that many 
astrologers analyze this chart like lagna chart and give equal 
weightage. Because of its importance, this chart is always cast 
along with Lagna chart. 


DASAMAMSA 
(10 Parts of 3° each) 


This chart is studied to analyze profession, fame, power and 
position. This chart is also known as career analysis chart. 


130 


The counting of Dasamamsa is to be made from the same 
sign for odd signs and from the 9" sign for even signs. 


Rashi 123 456 78 9 0 ll 2 
1* Dasa 3° 1 03 252 74 9 6 Il 8 
2™ Dasa 6° 2 14 163 85 107 2 9 
3"! Dasa 9° 3 25 274 9 6 18 1 = 10 
4" Dasa 12° 4 16 3 8 5 107 29 2 I 
5 Dasa 15° 5 27 49 6 118 1 03 2 
6" Dasa 18° 6 3 8 5 107 29 2 ll 4 1 
7" Dasa 21° 7 49 6 18 1 10 3 25 2 
8" Dasa 24° 8 5 1007 29 2 Il 41 6 3 
9" Dasa 27° 9 6 ll 8 1 1003 2 52 7 #4 
10" Dasa 30° 0729 2 1441 63 8 5 


The Dasamamsa chart of example given in Hora chart will 
be as under:- 


Dasamamsa 


131 


Dasamamsa chart can pinpoint factors causing delays and 
temporary disappointments in profession. 


Principles of Interpretation of Dasamamsa Chart. 


1. InDasamamsa Lagna assumes a tremendous significance. 
If Lagna is aspected by benefics, it becomes strong, then 
it may be presumed that career of the native stands ona 
good foundation provided, of course, Lagna chart does 
not tell altogether different results. 


2. Ifpowerful Sun is posited in upachaya houses aspected 
by Jupiter, native is likely to get recognition and eminence 
in career. 


3. IfDasa lord is strong in lagna chart and poised to give 
good results but lacks adequate strength in Dasamamsa, 
such Dasa lord may create uncertainties, under critical 
sub — periods. A sub dasa lord unfavourably placed in 
Dasamamsa from Dasa lord and afflicted with malefics 
may even temporarily hold up anticipated results. 


4. Planets in tenth house in Dasamamsa during their ruling 
periods will better the prospects of one’s career. 


5. Ifthere is no planet in tenth house in Dasamamsa, then its 
lord during its ruling period will confer honour to the native. 


6. Planets aspecting lord of tenth house in Dasamamsa 
should also be considered powerful with respect to one’s 
profession. 


7. The period of planets in kendra of Dasamamsa will be a 
mile stone in one’s career. 


132 


DWADASAMSA 


( 12 Parts of 2°30’ each) 


This chart is studied to know about parents. The counting of 
Dwadasamsa commences from the same sign 


Rashi 123 456 78 9 0 ll 2 
1* Dwad. 2°30” 123 456 78 9 0 ll 2 
2™ Dwad. 5° 234567 89 WH kb 1 
3™ Dwad. 7°30” 3 45 678 9 0 UR 2 
4" Dwad. 10° 456 78 9 Will 21 2 3 
5"Dwad. 12°30? 5 6 7 8 9 10 1112 12 3 4 
6" Dwad. 15° 6 78 9 Will 21 23 4 = 5 
7" Dwad.17°30? 7 8 9 1011 12 12 34 5 6 
8" Dwad. 20° 8 9 100 11 Wt 23 45 6 7 
9" Dwad.22°307 9 1011 1212 3 4 56 7 8 
10" Dwad. 25° 10 112123 45 67 8 9 
11"Dwad.27930? 11 121 23 4 56 78 9 10 


12" Dwad. 30° Bt23 45 67 8 9 1 Il 


133 


Dwadasamsa chart of example given in Hora chart will be 
as under:- 


DWADASAMSA 


SHODASAMSA 
(16 Parts of 1°52’30” each) 


The chart of studied to analyze conveyance and related 
happiness. The counting of shadasamsa in the various signs in 
as under:- 


In Movable signs - From Aries 
In Fixed signs - From Leo 
In Dual signs - From Sagittarius 


134 


Rashi 123 456 78 9 0 ll 2 
1*Shod. 1°52°30” 1 5 9 159 15 9 1 5 #9 
2™ Shod. 3°45’ 2 6 102 6 102 6 102 6 10 
3 Shod. 5°37°30” 3. 7 113 7 U3 7 U3 7 1 
4" Shod. 7°30’ 48248 248 24 8 2 
5"Shod.9°22’30 5 9 159 159 15 9 1 
6"Shod.11°915’°0” 6 102 6 102 6 10 2 6 10 2 
7" Shod. 139730" 7 113 7 13 7 137 «UU 3 
8" Shod. 15° 8 24 8 24 8 2 48 2D 4 
9" Shod. 1695273079 15 9 15 9 1 59 1 5 
10" Shod. 18°45° 10 2 6 102 6 102 6 10 2 6 
11"Shod.20°3730” 11 3 7 113 7 13 7 Il 3 7 
12"Shod. 229307 12 4 8 124 8 124 8 12 4 8 
13"Shod.24°22’30? 1 5 9 159 15 91 5 9 
14"Shod. 269157 2 6 102 6 102 6 102 6 10 
15" Shod. 28973073 7 113 7 137 U3 7 U 


16" Shod. 30° 48248 248 24 8 2 


135 


Shodasamsa Chart of example gives in Hora chart will be 


as under: - 


Moon 
Mer 
Jup 


VIMSAMSA 


SHODASAMSA 


( 20 Parts of 1°30’ each) 
The counting of Vimsamsa in the various signs is as under:- 


In Movable signs - 


In Fixed Signs 

In Duel Signs 
Rasi Te 22 
1“ Vims. 1°30’ 1 9 
2™ Vims. 3° 2 10 
3™ Vims. 4°30’ 3 Il 
46 Vims. 6° 4 12 
5" Vims. 7°30’ 51 
6" Vims. 9° 6 2 


136 


Oo ON DHD NW 


DHnBWN KS BL 


Oo ON HN OO 


10 


From Aries 
From Sagittarius 
From Leo 

5 6 7 8 

95 19 

1006 2 10 

17 3 IW 

28 4 12 

195° 25. ib 

2 10 6 2 


Nn BW NY 


Oo won nwn 


10 


7* Vims. 10°30’ 
8* Vims. 12° 

9" Vims. 13°30’ 
10° Vims. 15°0’ 
11" Vims. 16°30’ 
12" Vims. 18° 
13 Vims. 19°30’ 
14% Vims. 21° 
15 Vims. 22°30’ 
16" Vims. 24° 
17" Vims. 25°30’ 
18" Vims. 27° 
19" Vims. 28°30’ 
20"Vims. 30° 


3 Th 23) AT BS AT 

4128 4 12 8 4 12 8 

She 206 “Sod OS 19 
10 62 1062 106 2 10 
il 73 U73 W7 3 ll 
28 4 128 4 28 4 2 
T9085" MOS 9 041 
2 1006 2 106 2 10 6 2 
3° Thee 3 AAT 3 AL ae 23. 
4 28 428 4 2 8 4 
Bo Ts 392 Soy OR eS 89S 
6 2 10062 1062 106 
73 173 UW 73 #UT7 
8 4 12 8 4 12 8 4 128 


4 


= 
NO 


OWN DN BR WN 


= 
=) 


11 
12 


Vimsamsa chart of example given in Hora chart will be as 


under:- 


VIMSAMSA 


137 


CHATURVIMSAMSA OR SIDDHAMSA 
(24 Parts of 1°15’ each) 


The counting of Siddhamsa commences from Leo in odd 
sign and from Cancer in even signs. 


Rasi 123 45 6 78 9 0 ll 2 
1s Sid. 1°15’ 5 45 45454 54 5 4 
2™ Sid. 2°30’ 6 56 565 65 65 6 5 
3" Sid. 3°45” 7 67 676 76 76 7 #6 
4t Sid. 5° 8 78 78 7 87 8 7 8 7 
5! Sid. 6°15’ 9 89 898 98 9 8 9 8 
6" Sid. 7°30” 10 9 109 09 1009 109 10 9 
7 Sid. 8°45’ ll 10 1! 10 11 10 11 10 11 10 11 10 
8" Sid. 10°0’ RPibRilbRhi BU Ril Lb itl 


9" Sid. 119-15’ VY, (2 de 2 Te A 2 Be 
10" Sid. 12°30” 212 121 21 21 2 «2 
11" Sid. 13°45’ Be 22 13s 24 Be 2 33: 28 . Ba ~B2 @, 
12" Sid. 15°0’ 434343 43 43 4 3 
13" Sid. 16°15’ 5.40 Oo M4 SAS OS A A Se CA 
14" Sid. 17°30’ 6 56 565 65 65 6 5 
15" Sid. 18°45” 7 67 676 76 76 7 +6 


138 


16" Sid. 20°0’ 
17" Sid. 21°15’ 
18" Sid. 22°30” 
19" Sid. 23°45” 
20" Sid. 25°0’ 
21% Sid. 26°15’ 
22™Sid. 27°30" 
23" Sid. 28°45’ 
24" Sid. 30°0’ 


9 89 89 8 9 8 9 


10 9 1009 109 1009 109 


11 10 11 10 11 10 11 10 11 10 


RunRrRiuinai 2U RU 


1 B11 bB1 bt Pp il 
212 121 221 «~=2 
Sh 238 2 Soe 132 DS 
434343 43 4 


The Siddamsa chart of example given is Hora chart will be 


as under:- 


SIDDHAMSA 


139 


SAPTHAVIMSAMSA OR BHAMSA OR 
NAKSHTRAMSA 


(27 Parts of 1°6’40” each) 


Counting of Bhamsa in various signs is as under: - 


In Fiery 


In Airy 


signs (1,5,9) 
In Earthy signs (2,6,10) 
signs (3,7,11) - 


- From Aries 


From Libra 


From Cancer 


In Watery signs (4,8, 12) - From Capricorn 


Rasi 

1 Bha. 1°6’40” 
2™4 Bha. 2°13’20” 
3™ Bha. 3°20°0” 
4 Bha. 492640” 
5 Bha. 5°33’20” 
6" Bha. 6°40’0” 
7" Bha. 7°46’40” 
8" Bha. 8°53’20” 
9" Bha. 10° 

10" Bha. 11°6’40” 


1 


2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 


10 


11" Bha. 12°13’20” 11 


12" Bha. 13°200” 


2 


13" Bha. 14°26’40” 1 
14" Bha. 15°33’20” 2 


140 


2 
4 


3 
7 
8 


4 5 6 
101 4 
11 2 
12 3 


— 
aS 
Co On DH WN 


Co ON Dn fF W NY 


7 
7 
8 
9 


10 
11 


Oo rN Dn un fF WY WN 


8 
10 
11 


9 


e 


Co DOAN Dn fF WwW NY 


11 
12 


10 


11 


10 
11 


Co ON Dn nH Ff WY NY 


a 
re CO 


15" Bha. 16°40°0” 3 
16" Bha. 17°46’40” 4 
17" Bha. 18°53’20” 5 
18" Bha. 20° 6 
19" Bha. 21°6’40” 7 
20" Bha. 22°13’20” 8 
21% Bha. 23°20’ 9 
22™ Bha. 24°26’40” 10 
23" Bha. 25°33’20” 11 
24" Bha. 26°40°0” 12 
25" Bha. 27°46’40” 1 
26" Bha. 28°53’20” 2 
27" Bha. 30°00” 3 


The Bhamsa chart of example given in Hora chart is as 


under:- 


Co DOAN DNA FW N 


12 3 
1 


oo ON Dn Nn Ff 


2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 


10 1 
ll 2 
12 3 


12 


10 1 
11 2 
12 3 


4 
5 
6 


Co Wn NI Dn fF W NY 


Co DOAN DA nA fF W NY 


ll 2 
12 3 


Co ON Dn fF WW WN 


Se 
N 


Co OND Wn fF WwW NY 


— Se 
NN F&F Oo 


141 


TRIMSAMSA 


(30 Parts of 1° each) 


In odd signs the lords of Trimsamsa are Mars, Saturn, Jupiter, 
Mercury and Venus. Each of them rules 5, 5, 8, 7, and 5 
degrees’ respectively. In even signs, the quantum of Trimsamsa 
and planetary lordship gets reversed. 


Trimsamsa of odd signs Trimsamsa of even signs 
Rasi Aries Gem Leo Lib. Sag. Aqu. Rasi Tau. Can. Vir Sco. Cap.Pis. 


ae | 1 1 1 1 Wd De 2s DD 22. 2 
1° wu lu i i it uu 1” 6 6 6 6 6 6 
18° 9 9 9 9 9 9 2 BR RR PR PN 
28 3 3 3 3 3 3 2 Wb 0 0 0 0 
30 7 7 77 7 ++%FT 3% 8 8 8 8 8 8 


Trimsamsa chart of example given is Hora chart is as under:- 


142 


KHAVEDAMSA 

(40 Parts of 45’ each) 
The counting of Khavedamsa in odd signs commences from 
Aries and that of even signs from Libra. 


Rasi 

1°13"25"37" Khav. 
2™4 14 26" 38 Khav. 
3% 1527" 39" Khav. 
4" 16"28"40" Khav. 
5" 17% 29% Khav. 
6" 18% 30" Khav. 
7" 19" 31% Khav. 
820 32"4 Khav. 
9 2133" Khav. 
10% 22™4 34% Khav. 
11® 237435" Khav. 
12% 24 36" Khav. 


1 2 
7 


OnAmArANI DN BP WN KS W 


4 
7 
8 


5 


OWA NANIDHD NN FR WN 


6 
Mh 


= 
So 
&K 


ll 5 
12 6 


Oo ON DN BP WN KS NA 
— 
— 


10 4 
ll 5 
12 6 


9 oO ll 2 
| Wa eis! Ue 
28 2 8 
3.9 3 9 
4 10 4 10 
5 U5 il 
6 26 2 
Ede si ol 
8 2 8 2 
93 9 3 
1004 10 4 
115 U5 
26 2 6 


Khavedamsa chart of example given in Hora chart is as under:- 


Jup 
Ketu 
Rahu 


143 


AKSHAVEDAMSA 


(45 Parts of 40’ each) 
The counting of Akshavedamsa in various signs is as under: 
In Movable signs - From Aries 


In Fixed signs - From Leo 

In Dual signs - From Sagittarius 

Rasi 12345678 9 0 Il 12 
11325" and 159159 15 9 1 5 9 
37 Aksh. 

24 14% 26" and 26102 6 1002 6 102 6 10 
38% Aksh. 

3" 1527" and 370137H3 7 13 7 HU 
39" Aksh. 


4 16"28"40"Aksh. 4 8 124 8 124 8 124 8 12 


5th 17" 29" and 59159 159 15 9 1 
41* Aksh. 

6" 18"30"42"%Aksh. 6 102 6 102 6 10 2 6 10 2 
7*19"31"43%Aksh, 7 113 7 U3 7 11 3 7 UU 3 
8" 20"32"%44"Aksh. 8 124 8 124 8 12 4 8 12 4 
9% 21% 33" and 91591591 59 1 5 
45" Aksh. 

10" 22" and 34" Aksh. 102 6 102 6 102 6 10 2 6 
11°23" and35"Aksh. 113 7 113 7 113 7 11 3 #7 
12°24" and 36"Aksh. 124 8 124 8 124 8 12 4 8 


144 


Akshavedamsa chart of example given in Hora chart is as 
under:- 


AKSHAVEDAMSA 


SHASHTIAMSA 
(60 Parts of 30’ each) 


The counting of Shashtiamsa is done from the same sign for 
all signs. To findout the Shashtiamsa lord, ignore the sign 
position of planet and take degree etc. of that planet, multiply 
that figure by 12 and add 1. The resultant number is the sign 
from the sign whose Shashtiamsa is to be known is which the 
Shastiamsa falls and the lord of that sign will be the Shastiamsa 
lord. 


Suppose we have to find out the Shastiamsa of the Sun’s 
position 1°4°11’. The sign position is ignored i.e. | is ignored. 
The remainder 4°11’ is multiplied by 2, we get 8°— 22’. 
Ignoring minutes the degrees are divided by 12 1.e. 8/12, the 
remainder being 8 is added to 1 i.e. 8 + 1 =9. As the Sun’s 


145 


position is in Taurus, 9 signs from Taurus are counted which 
gives the sign Capricorn. Therefore Shashtiamsa is of 
Capricorn and Saturn is the Shashtiamsa lord. 


Shashtiamsa chart of example given in Hora chart is as 
under: - 


Sun Ket 


SHASHTIAMSA 


146 


8. PLANETS IN DIFFERENT HOUSES : 


PREDICTION 
SUN 


1‘*House:- 


Tall body, nose and forehead high, well proportioned body. 
Mentally disturbed with spouse and members of in-laws. Fond 
of tourism, foreign travel. Establishment away from homeland. 
Financial ups and downs. Gets angry very soon, self-respect, 
brave, courageous, playful. Problems in marriage. Ambitious, 
body ache, injury in head, weak eyesight, bald-headed. 
Whimsical, apprehensive, suspicious. Loss of wealth and 
property and therefore assets keep on varying. Health 
problems at the age of 15, mostly suffers from eczema. 


If debilitated, marriage not possible before age of 24, loss of 
wealth and son, loss of respect and honour. If exalted, wealth, 
intellectual ability, darkness before eyes, cataract, squint, 
Greedy, famous. 


If Sun in own sign, suffers from night blindness. If aspected 
by or in conjunction with benefic planets native gets only good 
results. If Sun in Cancer sign eyes small, ifin Aries or Leo 
sign heart trouble. If in Scorpio or Pisces sign very famous 
person. If aspected by Mars, suffers from T.B., Asthma. If 
aspected by Saturn, develops suicidal tendencies. 


In female horoscope - Angry, self-respect, playful, obstinate, 
picks up quarrel, argumentative, deprived of husband’s 
attention. Ifaspected by Saturn, suicidal tendencies, stubborn, 
head injury, headache, harsh in speech, dependant on other’s 


147 


food, ungrateful, ill health in childhood, contact with lower 
grade people. If exalted or in own sign, luxurious life. 


SUN 
2" house. 


Slender body, frail constitution, red eyes, extremely lucky, 
impatience in listening to others. Invests money for a good 
cause. Does not maintain good relations with members of in- 
laws. Suffering from ear-nose and throat (ENT) problems. 
Earns through the business of non-ferrous metals. Penalized 
by government. Wealth and property acquired by Govt. Defect 
in speech, stammers, stays in other’s house. Well educated. 
Embezzles govt. money. Not affectionate with family members 
and spouse. Wealthy but pays fine to govt. in one form or 
other. Diseases of mouth. Death of husband after death of 
wife. 

IfSun in signs 1, 4,5, 8,9, 12 excellent results. If Sun in signs 
7, 10, and 11 orin enemy sign then beneficial effect is reduced. 
Penalized in the age from 17 to 25, loss of money through 
theft. If in enemy sign or aspected by a malefic, problem in 
right eye. If aspected by Saturn, poor, danger from thief or 
govt. Ifin conjunction with Rahu- very wealthy person. 


In female horoscope —loss of wealth and family, poor, Throat 
problems. IfSun in own sign- prosperity. Jealous, quarrelsome, 
no friends, harsh in talking, without devotion, eyes problems, 
devoid of marital happiness. If Sun is exalted — wealthy and 
happy. If Sun in own sign or owner of benefic house — good 
results. 


148 


SUN 

3™ House:- 

Bold, adventurous, dignified, fond of visiting religious places. 
Oppressed by brothers. Victorious in wars, wrestling and 
games. Honour from government, poet, intellectual, interested 
in meditation, yoga. Religious, very hard worker, sportsman, 
immense ability for occultism. Enmity with relatives, Having 
loyal servants. Always in company with good looking and 
charming ladies, having number of disciples to serve. Destroyer 
of elder brothers, Fear of animals at the age of five, financial 
gains at the age of 20, having more number of cousin brothers. 
Comfort of conveyance, interest in science and art, living with 
brother may be harmful for both. 


If Sun is weak than chances of fracture in the hand. If Sun is 
malefic- danger from fire and poison. If sun is aspected by 
malefic—chances of death of brother/ sister or sister getting 
widow. If debilitated — ear problems, extravagant in 
expenditure. 


In female horoscope:- Begets sons, dignified, luxurious life, 
sportswoman, proficient in dancing, settles away from the 
native place, Foreign travel, devoid of happiness from brothers/ 
sisters. Large breast, loving husband, health normal, good 
looking, protects others. If Saturn is in sixth house husband is 
having very high status. 


SUN 

4" House :- 

Grieved, handsome, settles away from native place. Defeated, 
destroyer of father’s property, Desire for learning occult 


149 


subjects, Devoid of comfort of conveyance. III health of 
mother, self-health suffers, fearful. Heart troubles Devoid of 
comforts of friends, luxuries, land and property. Employed in 
govt. service, Handicapped or problem in some vital organ of 
body. Have sexual relations with number of females. Progress 
at the age of 22. Efficiency of work improves at the age of 
30. Does not get inherited property of father, even if gets, the 
same is destroyed. Fond of roaming around unnecessarily. 
Mentally disturbed. Gets company of selfish friends. Difficult 
to get success in politics, interested in philosophy. Gets honour 
and wealth from govt. Not in good term with brothers. Likely 
to face defeat. 


If aspected by malefic - comfort of conveyance normal. If 
exalted/in own sign/ aspected by benefic — honour by Govt. 
in old age. If with Venus — Raj yog. If with Mars — death after 
falling from high place or may be an accident. If in sign Scorpio 
—heat in the body and burning sensation in hands. 


In female horoscope— difficult life, problem to self and mother. 
Heat in body and heart, Heavy menses, No charm on the 
face, Health normal, hatred from opposite sex, Big and long 
teeth, interested in sculpture, wife of senior officer, less number 
of children. 


SUN 

Fifth House:- 

Angry disposition, death of first son. Normally one or at the 
most two sons. Status of one of the son higher than the native. 
Problems in childhood, wealth in young age. Interested in 
theatre, cinema etc. Fond of speculative activities, hiking, and 


150 


trekking. Stomach disorders, intelligent, accumulates wealth 
by his own efforts. Expert in Tantra mantra. cheat, fraudulent, 
heart trouble. Devotee of Lord Shiva. 


If Sun with Rahu/ Ketu —death of sons due to Sarpa Dosha. 
Ifin own sign — death of first child or abortion. Ifin moveable 
sign — happiness through progeny. If in dual sign- loss of 
progeny. If with or aspected by malefic planets— more female 
issues. If with or aspected by benefic— male progeny, If with 
Moon or Jupiter — normal happiness through progeny. If in 
sign Cancer — possibility of having progeny through second 
marriage. If in Sagittarius sign along with Jupiter — wealth in 
abundance. Ifin own sign and Jupiter is posited in 11" house, 
wealthy. Ifbenefic- speculation gains. 


In female horoscope— No male progeny, intelligent, problems 
with first child, famous, scholar, bold, courteous, bulky face, 
obedient of parents, leader in females, disciplined, charming 
speech. 


SUN 
6 House :- 


Destroyer of enemies, expenditure on friends and person 
connected with govt., problem to the maternal side. Injured 
by four legged airmails. Good health, problem of gall bladder/ 
kidney stones, gastric troubles, kidney problems. Luck favours 
at the age of 23. Bad luck for maternal uncle, high status, 
famous, wealth, meritorious. Mental problems, fond of eating 


151 


good food, very sexy. Teeth get damaged by wood or stone. 


If with benefic or aspected by benefic- excellent health. If 
Sun is weak — weak and short lived. Ifin Taurus, Scorpio or 
Aquarius signs ailments of throat, heart and back bone. If in 
Gemini, Virgo, or Pisces sign- cough and T.B. If in Cancer, 
Libra and Capricorn signs — gastric troubles, arthritis, stomach 
disorders. If in Sagittarius sign with Mercury — enjoys very 
high status in society. 


In female horoscope — wealthy, destroyer of enemies, enemity, 
quarrelsome, stomach disorder, gastric trouble; dehydration, 
good looking, good character, religious, extremely popular, 
lucky, successful in politics. 


SUN 
7 House :- 


Hindrance in marriage, problems with spouse, grieved, 
mentally disturbed. Possibility of second marriage, venereal 
disease, piles, fistula. Fond of opposite sex, spouse priggish, 
insulted by spouse. Profit and loss in business, wanders 
aimlessly, problem from govt. side, wicked spouse. Long 
separation from spouse. Profit in partnership business. Help 
from yantra power, fame in society and war. Good income in 
the age of 24, foreign travels at the age of 25. Involved in 
activities against Govt., no happiness from conveyance, gets 
name and fame everywhere. 


Ifsun is debilitated— marriage not possible before 24 years. If 


152 


exalted- educated and intelligent spouse. If malefic or in enemy 
sign—characterless spouse. If strong or in own sign — single 
marriage. Ifin Capricorn sign— problem with spouse. If with 
Saturn — spouse of doubtful chastity. If with Rahu — loss of 
wealth in company of females. If with Moon and aspected by 
Saturn—thorough corrupt. If with Jupiter— enjoys good health, 
enjoys all material comforts, handsome, rich, fond of jewels. 
If with Venus- characterless spouse with the consent of native. 


SUN 

8" House:- 

Short life, cheat, cunning, always with mental worries. Short 
tempered, impatient, and wealthy. Fond of having sexual 
relation with foreigners. Drunkard, ill health, fond ofnon- veg 
food. Loss of money in theft or wealth is destroyed due to 
native’s laziness. Beloved of fair sex, venereal diseases, 
widower, fire-accidents. Fear of firearms. Gets money through 
spouse, problem in right eye, children suffer from ill health, 
loss of wealth, friends and life. Chances of untimely death 
during the age of 30-33 years, unsuccessful till the age of 33, 
suffering equivalent to death at the age of 3, head injury at the 
age of 10. Unnecessary arguments with colleagues, Death of 
husband before the death of wife. 

If with benefic planets — no head injury. If in enemy’s sign- 
death due to electric shock, snake bite or poison. If in male 
sign — chastity of wife doubtful. If exalted or in own sign — 
long life. 


153 


In female horoscope — widow, sexy, fear of theft and fire. If 
aspected by Mars death due to fire is certain even if aspected 
by benefices. Train accident, fond of travelling, settles in foreign 
country, ill- health. No comforts, poor, bad-deeds, injury or 
wound in the body, tendency of high blood pressures. Playful, 
deprived of husband’s attention. If Sun is in own sign—barren 
or sterile. If with Mars and Venus - involved into prostitution. 
If with Venus — Characterless. If with Saturn and Venus or 
with Mars and Venus — either characterless or ascetic provided 
the difference in longitudes of these planets is not much. 


SUN 


9" House:- 

Happy, father short- lived, difference of opinion with father, 
donor, ascetic, devotee, leader, astrologer, loss of fame, 
opponent, land-lord, lucky, progress with the help of others, 
long — lived, ill health during childhood, prosperous in 
adulthood, happiness from conveyance & servants, full benefit 
of human life. 


If exalted or in own sign — father long- lived. If debilitated — 
worries and asceticism, If malefic or in enemy’s sign—harmful 
for father. If exalted —very lucky, prosperous, luck will help at 
every stage in life. If with Moon—wealthy, powerful personality. 
Ifin Sagittarius sign with Mercury — benefic results. 


In female horoscope — religious, loss of fortune, fantasies, 
asceticism, large number of enemies, happy in middle age but 
unhappy in old age. Harmful if debilitated. 


154 


SUN 
Tenth House:- 


Being digbali gives high status in government, intelligent, govt. 
recognizes his hard work, problems to mother, own- relatives 
become opponents, govt. service must, excellent behavior, 
recognition from govt., generous, enjoys the life, all types of 
happiness, happiness from progeny and conveyance, angry- 
disposition, expenditure, progress in politics, successful 
administrator, happiness from father & relatives, full of the 
jewels and gems, full benefit of human life, ill health in old age. 
Separation from near relation or from very dear object at the 
age of 19. Fame in education after the age of 18. Suffering to 
father at the age of 28. Fortunate at the age of 30. 


If in own sign —respect by govt. If lord of Trikona houses — 
Healthy wealthy. If debilitated —characterless. Ifin sign Taurus 
— successful in agriculture. Ifin sign Cancer — profit through 
water travel. Ifin sign Aries or Leo— hunter, violent, builds 
religious place. If with/ aspected by malefic — sinner. If 
aspected by any three planets — famous, close to king. Ifin 
sign Taurus with Mercury — wealthy. If lord of 10 house and 
Saturn are in 3 house — respect, healthy, becomes very 
famous at an early age. 


In female horoscope — recognition by govt., devoid of 
happiness from father, ascetic, always suffering from ill health, 
interest in dancing and singing, priggish, charitable, progeny. 


155 


SUN 
Eleventh House:- 


Wealthy, long- lived, no sufferings in life, income from govt., 
sudden gains, enemies are afraid. Officer in bank, treasury, 
number of enemies — even then victorious. People obey him, 
beautiful and prosperous wife, learned, stomach — troubles, 
trust worthy, children create problems, eliminates all malefic 
effects if birth during daytime. Gets conveyance at the age of 
25. High status interested in singing. leader, very beautiful eyes, 
not helpful for elder brother. 


If in own sign— income through govt., animals, litigation or 
thieves. Iflord of 4" house—all material comforts and wealth. 
If weak —malefic results. Ifin Sagittarius sign or aspected by 
Moon or Jupiter—marriage with girl of high family. 


In female horoscope — prosperous, recognition from govt., 
govt. service or serving in bank or treasury. Gains, comforts, 
happiness from progeny, artist, self-reliant, with sons and 
grandsons, proficient in various arts, praised by relatives and 
brothers, abortions. 


SUN 
Twelfth House:- 


Sinner, corrupt, eyes trouble, bodyache, lazy, mentally sick, 
journeys, poverty, settles in foreign country or foreign travel 
must, opponent of father, weak eye-sight, financial loss, fine, 
penalty, imposition of tax, no son, habit of stealing, loss at the 


156 


age of 28 to 32, disease of private parts at the age of 36, 
victorious, loss during travel, trouble to uncle or does not 
maintain cordial relation with uncle, unreligious, deformity of 
some organ, having illicit relation with other ladies, hunter of 
birds. Ailments of thigh, wife impotent. 


Ifexalted—progeny. If weak — fear of penalty, bondage from 
govt., loss of wealth, may have to leave own country. If with 
malefic planets- number of journeys, extravagant, No marital 
happiness. If Sun a benefic planet or exalted — separation 
from brothers. If with Saturn and Moon — bankrupt. If with 
lord of 9" house — fortunate due to father. If with Moon — 
eyesight of both the eyes weak or may become blind. If in 
Virgo sign —life more than 75 years. 


In female horoscope — angry, extravagant, weak eye- sight, 
settles in foreign country or foreign travel, impolite, expenditure 
in bad deeds, passionate, fond of liquor, non- vegetarian food. 
Chastity doubtful. 


MOON 

First House:- 

Wealthy, elegant, handsome, attractive personality, illness 
related to cold, pneumonia, epilepsy, number of children, fear 
from water, fond of wandering, charm, attracts opposite sex, 
liked by friends, suffers from ailment of walking and speaking 
during sleep, whimsical, mediator, secret planner, interest in 
medical field. Confident, learns some art before doing main 
occupation, frequent transfers, changes in residence. III health 
at the age of 27. 


157 


If in sign Aries, Taurus or Cancer — benefic results. If of 
Krishna Paksha — one son must. If of Krishna Paksha but 
very weak —malefic, headache, injury from vehicle or animal. 
If exalted or debilitated — wealthy. Ifin Leo sign — position of 
authority in committee or society. Ifin Capricorn sign- lazy 
but interested in opposite sex. If in Aquarius sign — bulky 
body, hard worker. [fin Sagittarius sign—knowledge of religion. 
Ifin sign Aries, Leo or Sagittarius -impatient. If in Libra sign — 
learned. If debilitated — ill health and deligent. Ifin Aries or 
Scorpio or Cancer or Aquarius sign and also with Venus and 
aspected by malefic— illicit relation with number of females. If 
Moon is weak — eyes trouble, poor, disgraceful, deaf and 
dumb, neurological problems. If lord of Moon’s sign is in 
kendra and aspected by Saturn —unlucky yoga. If with Mars 
— wealth does not leave company. Weak Moon in kendra 
always bestows good results. 


In female horoscope — ill health, charming, peace loving, 
prosperous, if Moon is strong suffers from epilepsy, marriage 
at early age. If Moon is of Shukla- Paksha — Extremely 
beautiful. If of Krishna Paksha-poor, ill health, quarrelsome, 
dirty clothes. If Moon is with Mars—problem in menstruation, 
romantic. Ifin Aries, Scorpio, Cancer or Aquarius sign and 
aspected by malefic planet — having illicit relation with other 
males. If Sun is in 11" house and Mercury is in 10™ house — 
becomes queen. 


158 


MOON 
Second House:- 


Number of sons, happy, enjoys the life, good health, weakness 
for women, enjoys with family, beautiful, likes foreign land, 
endurance, fortunate, wealthy, brown hairs, red eyes, talkative. 
Luck helps at the age of 27. Enjoys company of beautiful 
females, charm attracts opposite sex, wealth stays permanently 
at home, stammers, Loss of money through sister or daughter. 


If with Mars — poor, skin — disease, both the planets become 
incapable of giving good results. If with benefic planets — 
financial gain at the age of 27. If with lord of 2™ house — 
Rajyoga. If Moon is weak —stammers, financially week, stupid, 
indifferent in behavior. If debilitated — sorrow, poor. If in 
Scorpio or Capricorn sign — malefic. If week Moon is 
aspected by Mercury — loss of hard earned assets. If alone in 
Aquarius sign—recovery of lost money, sound financial position 
after marriage. Ifin Taurus sign- conveyance. Ifin quadruped 
sign—four wheeler conveyance (car). If with Mercury — eyes 
trouble. Ifin Gemini sign along with Jupiter — Rajyoga, co- 
borns are very happy. 

In female horoscope — prosperous, progeny, benefic for father 
and husband, good character, polite, very devoted to husband, 
has her own principles and ways, devotee, charitable, throat 
problem specially Thyroid certain. 


159 


MOON 


3"4 house:- 


Income through own efforts, Weakness for women but never 
gets defamed, Religious, Famous, Disposition is happy and 
cheerful, Believer of God, sweat tongue, Happiness of 
Brothers/ Sons / Friends, settles in foreign country, Learned, 
Protects religion, Goes abroad from 27" to 30" year of age. 
Peralized by Govt. due to crime committed or financial loss at 
the age of 24. Breast-fed by lady other than mother, co-born 
at the age of 5. Cough, frequent changes in business, earns 
money through his own efforts. 


If with Rehu/Ketu — courageous put miser. If exalted — 
pleasure seeker. If debilitated — malefic, miser, quarrelsome. 
If with Venus -— special benefic results during main/ sub period 
of Venus. If with lord of Lagna and lord of 6" house — breathing 
problems, throat problem or piles. If with Mars — intelligent, 
wealth, high status, enjoys all comforts of life. If with Mercury 
— poet, artist, wealthy. 


In female horoscope — happy, happiness from co-borns, 
beautiful, journeys, sexy but secretive, miser, ingratitude, 
problem with children, children not capable, cough and gastric 
problems. Harsh, gets angry very soon, bad company. 


160 


MOON 


Fourth House:- 

Desire of getting high status, happiness from spouse and son, 
Donor, happy, good health, generous, intelligent, lucky after 
marriage, wealth, facility for conveyance, suffers from ailments 
of cold, problems in old age, frequent changes in profession, 
Profession of water borne things like fish, conch-shell, pearls 
etc. profitable, Devotee, keeps the females happy, lives in 
palatial house. Marine trade, manufacturer or trading of 
patented medicines, perfumes, oils, power etc. 


If having directional strength — high status. If in Sagittarius 
sign —troubles upto 4" year of age. If strong — fame, successful 
in politics, money flows towards him automatically, impressive 
personality. Ifin enemy sign—quarrelsome, devoid of mother’s 
happiness, happy in childhood, sufferings in adulthood, dispute 
with co-borns and near relations. If with Jupiter —very wealthy. 
If of Poornima — definitely enjoying high status. If exalted and 
aspected by Jupiter — senior officer. If with Venus — having 
contacts with mean and wicked people. If with Mercury — 
sufferings, does not get the benefic results of Moon. Mother 
suffers at the age of 36, mother short-lived. If with Mars- 
wealthy provided Saturn is not posited in 4" or 10™ house. 


In female horoscope — prosperous, conveyance, suffers from 
cough, cold, and chest — pain. Water injury, gets costly 
jewellery, proficient in many arts, fond of gems and jewellery, 
religious, fond of meat, enjoys sex. If Moon is weak — fear, 
sick. Ifin Taurus sign and aspectd by Jupiter-wife of senior 
officer. 


161 


MOON 


Fifth House:- 

Male progeny, happiness from progeny, good income, fame, 
fond of jewels, landlord, earns by lending money on interest, 
deligent, playful, idealistic and sets up his own standards, good 
qualities, speculative gains, impressive while walking, advisor 
in government service, tantrik, fulfills his desires by 
worshipping goddesses like Durga, Kali etc., His wife has 
mark between breasts, business of milk and milk products 
highly beneficial. 


If in Cancer sign — more daughters than sons. If in Cancer 
sign and Mars is also in 11" house — extremely rich. If 
debilitated — suffers from ailment of water being retained in 
stomach. If Moon is weak and malefics are in 1“, 7", or 12 
houses — unmarried or widower or divorcee. If in Taurus or 
Cancer sign —gains in speculation. If in Sagittarius— faith in 
religion. If exalted — happiness from wife and son. If Moon is 
weak — devoid of happiness from spouse, daughters playful. 
Ifaspected by Saturn —cheat. If aspected by or in conjunction 
with malefics-childless, wicked, possibility of progeny possible 
after age of 52. If with Jupiter — Moon not in a position of 
giving benefic results. (This is an exception of Gaj Kesri Yoga). 
Ifin Taurus, Leo, Virgo or Scorpio signs — hardly one or two 
children. 


In female horoscope — intelligent, prosperous, beautiful, 
obedient of husband, able children, good conduct, having 
number of servants, wealthy, excellent behavior. If Moon is 
weak or aspected by malefic — malefic results. If Moon is in 
Cancer sign - more number of daughters. 


162 


MOON 
Sixth house:- 


Ailments of mouth, opponent of king but respected in society, 
enemies are afraid of him, short lived, cough, extravagant, 
eyes— trouble, quarrelsome, injury from water, stomachache, 
sexual, masturbation, dehydration, does not feel hungry 
(Dyspepsia). Suffers at the age of 8™ or 23 rd. Sexual 
intercourse with widow at the age of 36. Not devoted to father, 
devoid of mother’s attention, does get happiness from maternal 
uncle, asthmatic. 


If with Venus — expenditure on females, venereal disease, If 
with Rehu or Ketu— dyspepsia, fear from water, retention of 
water in stomach. If full Moon—long-lived, cough and windy 
problems, dyspepsia, sexual, number of enemies, promotion 
in service. If benefic -—good health, well built and strong. If 
Moon is weak-ill health, sufferings. If exalted — throat troubles. 
If debilitated —piles. Ifin Gemini, Virgo, Sagittarius or Pisces 
signs—cough. If with Saturn —liver enlargement. Ifof Krishna 
Paksha and with malefic — tuberculosis. If with Jupiter — weak 
eyesight. If in Capricorn sign and Saturn is in 12™ house — 
excess expenditure. If with lord of 3" house — breast feeding 
by lady other than own mother. 


In female horoscope —ill health from childhood, quarrelsome, 
short lived, opponent, dispute, number of enemies, playful, 
financial crisis, impolite, injured by husband. If Moon is strong 
in Taurus or Cancer sign —all comforts in life. 


163 


MOON 
Seventh house;- 


Happiness from spouse, gains in trading, attracted by opposite 
sex specially if Moon is of Krishna Paksha, fond of delicious 
food, greedy, civilized leader, judge, sea travel, promptness, 
love marriage, handsome, spouse also beautiful, attraction 
between husband and wife, frequent changes in the profession, 
sudden financial gains from wife or son, fond of travelling, 
speculative gains, gains from things produced in water, gain in 
partnership. Business in grocery, milk and milk products, grain, 
restaurant, commission agent, insurance always profitable. 


If with Venus — more than one marriage (legal or illegal) or 
extra —marital relations. If exalted —two marriages, luck will 
help only after marriage. If debilitated and with Rahu / Ketu- 
insomnia. In signs other than Taurus and Cancer—handsome, 
lucky, loss of married life. If debilitated or in enemy’s sign — 
spouse wicked / quarrelsome / having extra marital relations. 
If of Krishna Paksha — greedy, fond of sweets, sexual. If in 
Taurus —most sexual. If weak in Taurus sign — ailments of 
semen and urine. If weak and afflicted with malefics — spouse 
having ill health. If in odd sign — harsh. If with Saturn or 
aspected by Saturn — devoid of marital happiness, delay in 
marriage, spouse older than him, without son, spouse having 
extra marital relations. If with Jupiter and Mercury —land lord, 
all comforts in life. Ifin Taurus, Sagittarius, Aquarius or Pisces 
sign — early marriage. If with exalted Jupiter —very wealthy. 


In female horoscope — gets excellent husband, dear of 


164 


husband, intelligent, prosperous, ordinary in appearance, 
religious, soft spoken, fame, cunning, If Moon is weak — 
deprived of happiness from husband. If Moon is with Saturn 
—remarriage. 


MOON 
Eighth House:- 


Ill health, chronic diseases, diabetes, cough. Intelligent, gains 
in business, talkative, priggish, jealous, wicked, corrupt, makes 
fool of others, short lived, problems with government, fear 
from water, fever, inflammation, serious sufferings at the age 
of 36 and 40. Problems at the age of 6 and 10. Doctors are 
always present in the house because of continuous ill health. 
Rheumatism, fear from thieves, leaves motherland, servants 
leak out secrets of house. Loss of wealth at the age of 44. 


Ifin own/ friendly sign—asthmatic. If with benefic planets — 
gains from partnership. If with Jupiter — fear from water at the 
age of 32. If afflicted with Mars and Venus — death due to 
drowning, untimely death, sudden death of mother. Ifin Taurus 
or Cancer sign with benefics or aspected by a benefic — 
longlived. If afflicted with malefic — fear of sudden death. If 
Moon is weak — short lived. Ifin watery sign and with Jupiter 
and aspected by malefic — tuberculosis. If with Saturn — liver 
disease. If weak and of Krishna Paksha and with malefic — 
Tuberculosis. 


In female horoscope— grieved, malefic, short lived, ill health, 
frail constitution, angry, eyes troubles, wicked, deformed 


165 


breasts. If Moon is in own sign/ exalted or in friendly sign — 
not malefic. If with malefic or aspected by malefic — possibility 
of death in childhood. If Moon is with Jupiter—malefic results. 


MOON 
Ninth House:- 


Good income in administrative services, get all comforts, 
happiness from friends / sons / near relations, fame in society, 
fortunate in the young age. Sound health, son has chest pain 
throughout the life / cough/ pneumonia, financial gains, donor, 
ascetic, hard worker, famous for judgement, playful, intelligent, 
bookworm, brave, few brothers, successful in all ventures, 
happiness from charming females, pilgrimage at the age of 
20. Happiness from progeny, gains in partnership, leader in 
public, devotee, devotee of father, charm attracts opposite 
sex, gains in tourism, lucky at the age of 24. 


Ifin male sign— devoid of elder brother and younger sister. If 
in fixed sign — devoid of elder sister and younger brother. If 
full Moon with strong planets — extremely fortunate, father 
long lived. If with benefics- long lived. If with Venus — wicked 
spouse. If weak or debilitated — poor, lacking qualities, atheist. 
If aspected or afflicted with a malefic — unlucky. If with 
malefics- sexual relations with wife of preceptor or with a 
female older in age. 


In female horoscope-religious, social, happy, prosperous, 
happiness from parents, intelligent, understands psychology 
of others, clever, lucky, gets appreciation, good sons and 


166 


servants. If Moon is weak or debilitated or in enemy’s sign— 
devoid of spiritual and material comforts. If Moon is benefic 
and strong — good results. 


MOON 
Tenth House:- 


Serious disposition, happiness from coborns and near 
relations, honour from government, devoid of happiness form 
first child, proficient, generous, businessman, famous, brings 
laurels for family, always helpful to others, gains from 
government, winner, financial gains at the age of 27 and 43. 
Business of ornamental articles, doctor, manufacturer of 
medicines. Father suffers from 36" to 40" year of age, 
fortunate at the age of 24, frequent changes in profession and 
transfers in service, shrude spouse, sufferings in infancy, earns 
in the business of prostitution, gains from females of good 
families. 

If afflicted with malefics — cold and cough. If with Ketu— 
Rajyog. If full Moon—Rajyog (Definite). fin enemy’s sign or 
in the sign of malefic planet —ill heath, unfortunate. If with 
malefic—sinner, defamation due to relation with widow at the 
age of 27. Ifin moveable sign-instability in business. If with 
Mars — tremendous loss. If with Saturn — loss in business. If 
in Aries, Cancer, Libra or Capricomm sign—number of changes 
in profession. If with Mercury — sufferings in old age. If with 
Jupiter — definitely a gazetted officer in government. If with 
exalted Jupiter —very wealthy. 


167 


In female horoscope — prosperous, Rajyog, wealth, happy 
family, enjoying high status, good conduct, famous, full with 
jewellery, main person in family, donor, religious. 


MOON 


Eleventh House:- 


Fame, gains from mother, honoured by government, position 
of authority, permanent rich, more female progeny, good 
qualities, happy, liked by everybody, long-lived, likes foreign 
countries, proficient in government work, service in bank or 
treasury, happiness from sons, comforts from servants, 
happiness from spouse, minister, adviser, secretary, astrologer, 
historian. Financial gains at the age of 16, 20, 24, 45, honour 
at the age of 27. Gets son at the age of 50, successful in 
business and politics. Ifbirth in nights — removes malefic effect 
of other planets. Bold in speech, clever, handsome, always 
adopts right path, comforts of different type of vehicles. 


If in own sign— comforts of vehicles, sea- travel. If weak /in 
enemy’s sign / debilitated —ill health, devoid of comforts. If 
with Venus — comforts of vehicle, educated. If with Saturn- 
Rajyog. 


In female horoscope — happy, wealthy, prosperous, sudden 
gains, diplomatic, donor, polite, enjoys good health. If Moon 
is weak — even then good results. If Moon is of Krishna 
Paksha — slight decrease in benefic results. 


168 


MOON 
Twelfth House:- 


Slender body, lucky due to mother, fear of enemies, eye 
troubles- specially in left eye, expenditure for good cause. 
Does not have permanent friendship with females, unsuccessful 
in fulfilling desires, playful, injury near eyes, expenditure in 
pleasure seeking, deligent, lazy, sad, defamed, fond of food, 
handicapped, wicked, husband of ill wife. Educated, fear of 
water at the age of 45, no happiness from maternal or paternal 
side, defamation due to contact with females, people do not 
have faith in him, occult science. 


Ifin Aquarius sign-short-lived. Ifin Cancer or Pisces sign — 
Rajyog, knowledge of mantras, speculator, suffers from cold. 
If afflicted with Mars and Sun-dispute in family. Penalty from 
government, prison, loss in gambling. If in Scorpio or 
Capricorn signs — cheat, wicked. If strong — service, wicked 
boss. If with benefic — intelligent, good deeds. If weak / with 
malefic /in enemy’s sign —sinner, loss of left eye, no salvation. 
If Moon is weak — angry, deformity in the body. If aspected 
by malefics-prison. Father changes residence in the main 
period of Moon. 


In female horoscope — weak eyesight, extravagant, 
expenditure in pleasure seeking, handicapped, windy ailments, 
changing nature, does not have any principles, always suffering 
from ill health. 


If Moon is in Aquarius sign in any of the house — beautiful, 
donor, famous, prosperous, wealthy, enjoys good health. 


169 


MARS 
First House:- 


Pushful and aggressive, stubborn, fear from iron/fire/wooden- 
stick, sufferings from spouse and children, ambitious, ailment 
of private parts, wealthy, famous, delay in marriage till 27" 
year of age, widower, charm attracts opposite sex, never 
hesitates to pick up a quarrel even with boss, blood-disease, 
mole on private parts, frequent travel, stomach and teeth 
trouble in the childhood, head-injury, ill at the age of 5, angry, 
suffering, difficult to convince him. If at the Sandhi of 1“ and 
2™ house —definite throat problem, delay in achieving the 
objectives, irritation in the navel, no endurance to cope with 
prolonged hardships. Devoid of happiness from mother, very 
hard worker but unlucky. 


If Saturn is in 1‘, 4th, 5", 7", or 8", houses — never caught 
while accepting bribe. If in Aries, Taurus, Cancer, Libra, 
Scorpio or Pisces sign — spouse suffers. If in own sign or 
debilitated — gets very important position. If with Sun or Saturn 
—jealous of mother. If with malefics/ benefics — short lived, 
eyes trouble, windy problems. If in Scorpio or Capricorn sign 
—healthy, long lived, famous, If in Cancer or Pisces sign — 
wicked, drunkard. If aspect of Moon of Libra sign — cruel. If 
with lord of 2™ house — ear trouble. If with Rahu —hydrocele. 
Ifaspected by Saturn and Sun — small pox, handicapped. 


In female horoscope—head injury, naughty, mentally disturbed, 
neurological problem, eye troubles, priggish, blood — disease, 
devoid of marital happiness, separation from husband, wicked. 


170 


If on Sandhi of 1‘ and 2" house-throat problems. If aspected 
my malefics-throat trouble, polio, chances of fall from higher 
place. If Mars is in Aries, Scorpio or Capricorn sign—benefic 
results. 


Second House:- 


Complicated nature, interrupts while other person is talking, 
harsh language, devoid of wealth, does not maintain cordial 
relations in family, loser, deligent, eyes and ear troubles, loss 
of wealth, loss in the family, fear of theft/ fire/ injury. Sudden 
death in family, ugly, illiterate, in service of wicked persons, 
gains in the business of metals and medicines. Chances of 
getting employment at the age of 19, ill health at the age of 9, 
throat problems, fond of non-veg food, poor, enemity of 
wicked people, fond of argument and debate, does not 
appreciate the importance of things, gains in the business of 
civil contractor / machinery/ agriculture/coal/marine trade. Not 
favourable as astrologers as malefic results predicted by them 
are correct whereas benefic results predicted by them are 
seldom true. 


If debilitated — poor. Ifin own sign/exalted — beautiful eyes, 
educated, sudden gains. If in Scorpio sign — Rajyog, 
inheritance. Ifin enemy’s sign/aspected by malefics — eyes 
trouble. If with lord of 6" house — eyes trouble. If with Moon 
—loss of wealth. Ifin Virgo sign with Rahu— owner of house 
in the main period of Mars and sub — period of Sun. 


In female horoscope-difficult in child-bearing, loss of wealth/ 
family, harsh, defect in speech, quarrelsome, throat problem, 


171 


looks older than her age, long lived, very sexy, bald headed, 
ill health, wicked, poor, dependant on others, jealous, liver 
problems, gambler husband. 


Third House:- 


Most unfavourable, ill health, irritable, limited income, 
expenditure much more than income, sufferings are endless, 
brave, aggressive, devoid of co-borns, harsh, ascetic, settles 
in foreign country, frequent travel, devoid of happiness from 
younger brother. Cheat, co-born at the age of 12" and 13" 
year. Unfavourable for younger co-borns, co-borns short 
lived, ear-trouble, danger from vehicle, does not maintain 
cordial relations with relatives and neighbors, great problem 
by signing a document or by giving an evidence. 


If with Rahu— womanizer. If without aspect of benefics — 
wicked wife. If in own sign or with benefics — serious 
disposition, famous. Ifin Gemini sign—long lived, ear troubles, 
happiness from brothers. If with malefics or aspected by 
malefics— unfavourable for elder co-borns. Ifin Aries sign — 
astrologer, mathematician, devoid of wealth, mental agony, 
madness. If with Jupiter and Saturn or with Jupiter and aspected 
by Saturn — ailments of ears, deafness. If with Saturn — ear 
troubles, mental agony. 


In female horoscope — ascetic, healthy, devoid of happiness 
from brother, sportswoman, fond of travel, settles in foreign 
country, runs away from home, lucky, reputed, wicked sons, 
serves the saints, impressive, jovial. If Mars is in own sign or 
exalted — prosperous. If Saturn is in 11 house and Jupiter 


172 


aspects ascendant — becomes queen. 
Fourth House:- 


Devoid of happiness from mother and sister, gains from 
government service, beneficial, settles in foreign country, 
progeny, opponent of near relatives, sufferings to mother, heart 
trouble, danger from fire and thief. Friendship with dark 
coloured persons, wife characterless, either wife can kill him 
or he kills his own wife, Gradual progress in life, devoid of 
pleasures in earlier stages of life, differences with father for 
which mother is responsible, gains from land even if there is 
aspect of Mars on fourth house, unsuccessful in politics, 
unsuccessful in service, sexual, number of sons, obstinate 
mother, makes use of every opportunity that arises, fear from 
enemies, quarrel at home, sufferings in old age, never stable, 
never gets mental peace, dark complexion. 


If in Sagittarius or Pisces sign — gain from foreign country, 
benefic. If in Aries, Scorpio or Capricorn sign — happiness 
from land and vehicle. Ifin Libra sign— auspicious. Ifin Leo 
or Capricorn sign — marital happiness. If with Rahu/ Ketu— 
suicidal tendencies in main or sub-period of Mars. Ifin Cancer 
sign—chest infection, asthma, T.B. 


In female horoscope — sufferings to mother, pain in chest and 
heart, devoid of happiness of younger brother, angry, 
pessimistic, devoid of happiness, bulky body, unsuccessful in 
fulfilling desires, unreligious, poor, wicked, weakness for 
opposite sex, sexual, domestic problems, greedy, immoral. 


173 


Fifth House:- 


Always feels hungry, wicked, sinner, angry, number of 
abortions, deceitful, ill health, slender, body, playful. Sufferings 
from progeny, obstacles in education, deligent, marriage does 
not takes place even after everything is settled, inauspicious, 
backbiter, penalty from government, ailments of private parts. 
Loss of co-born at the age of 5, danger from fire at the age of 
6. Ambitious, feels jealous, cannot accumulate wealth, cough 
and windy problems. Immediately caught while accepting 
bribe. 


Ifin own sign or exalted—one son suffers from ill health who 
is also ugly. If Rahu in Lagna— famous due to melodious voice 
and singing since childhood. If aspected by Saturn and Sun— 
handicapped. If aspected by Jupiter or Venus — loss of first 
progeny. If in Cancer sign — son after second marriage. If 
with malefics—ill health, loss of son, wicked. If with Saturn — 
mentally ill. If with lord of 8" house — sinner, brave, adopted 
son. Ifin Leo, Scorpio, Aquarius or Pisces sign — progeny 
must. If with Saturn or Venus or Saturn or Ketu — suffers 
continuously from T.B. 


In female horoscope -— sinner, characterless, atheist, obstacles 
in education, asthma, begets wicked sons/daughters, enjoys 
the company of wicked people, harmful for co-borns. If in 
even signs or exalted — only one son, abortions, problems in 
delivery. Ifin Aries, Scorpio or Capricorn — malefic effects 
are not felt. 


174 


Sixth House:- 


Throat troubles, enemies are defeated inspite of being large in 
numbers, devoid of happiness of matemal uncle, financial gains, 
extravagant, feels hungry, angry, debtor, officer in police or 
military, ailments of blood, surgery, son at the age of 24, good 
food, relations with number of females, more than one 
marriage. Dispute at the age of 21 or 27, danger from enemy, 
daughter at the age of 27. Comforts of vehicle, fortunate, loss 
from servants, officers are not caught while accepting bribe. 


Ifaspected by malefics — accident. If exalted- fortunate at the 
age of 18. If debilitated — ill health, wicked, cheat, death in 
fight or in war, piles. Ifin Gemini or Virgo and not aspected 
by benefices — leprosy. Ifin Taurus, Leo, Scorpio, or Aquarius 
sign—ailments of urine, heart and throat. Ifin Aries, Cancer 
or Capricorn sign— danger from fire, loss due and servants. If 
in Cancer or Pisces sign — pleasure seeker, brings disgrace 
and family. Ifin Aries — inauspicious. 


In female horoscope — sound health, opponent, quarrelsome, 
dispute, destroyer of enemies, intelligent husband, dense hair, 
well educated, inauspicious for maternal relations. If Mars is 
very weak - ill health. 


Seventh House:- 


Wanders from place to place, suffers from enemies, death of 
wife at young age, ill health from childhood, penalized by 
government, harsh, foolish, poor, jealous, wife dominates, 
obstacle in marriage till the age of 27, more than one marriage, 
sexual relations with foolish or barren female, unnecessary 


175 


worries, wife does not give due respect, does not get fame in 
business. Wife suffers from gynecological problems, danger 
from fire at the age of 16. Danger to spouse at the age of 37. 


If with Saturn— unnatural sex (Homosexual, sex with animals), 
kisses private parts during sex. If with Ketu— sexual relations 
with barren or with female in menstruation. If combust or 
debilitated — most inauspicious. If exalted — prosperous, long 
lived. If with benefics — widower. If with enemy planets — 
death of more than one spouse. If exalted or in own sign — 
wealthy, happy, only one marriage but chastity of wife is 
doubtful. If with malefic planets — backache, more than one 
marriage. If debilitated or in enemy’s sign—ill health, sinner. If 
in Aries, Scorpio or Capricorn sign — marital happiness. If 
with Moon and Venus — pleasure seeker. If with Moon — 
gains in speculation, gambling, war. Ifin Cancer sign and with 
Saturn — beneficial and sincere spouse. If in Pisces sign — 
widower. If with Saturn— devoid of spouse — progeny, mentally 
ill, suffers. If with Venus — ailments in legs. If with Jupiter, 
separation from spouse. 


In female horoscope — widow, enemity with spouse, more 
than one marriage, irregular menses, ailments of stomach, very 
sexy, extra— marital affairs ( definite), ugly, wicked devoid of 
happiness of spouse, plumpy body. If under influence of 
benefics — not widow. If Mars in the Aries or Scorpio sign or 
in Navamsa of Mars — Vaginal disease. Widow in earlier age 
provided husband is not suffering from mangalik Dasha. 


176 


Eighth House:- 


Enemity due to bad behaviour, obstacles, fond of alcohol, 
licentious, harsh, eyes-troubles, hesitates, financial crises, piles, 
inflammation, injury on the lower position of back, angry 
disposition, death due to fire, surgery, fortunate after marriage, 
cannot accumulate wealth (zero savings), sufferings at the age 
of 22 and 35, sufferings similar to death at the age of 25. 
Seriously ill during the age of 54-56, enemity even with co- 
borns, chronic disease and medical treatment is of no use, 
eye trouble, ailments of blood, wicked, never caught while 
accepting bribe, always feels hungry. 


If in own sign or with benefics — sound health, long- lived. If 
with malefics—suffers from T.B. or windy problems. If exalted 
—benefic. If weak — piles, disease of genital organs, bleeding. 
If debilitated and in enemy’s sign — death in water. Ifexalted— 
wealthy. If with Moon — injury from water. If with Sun—suicidal 
tendency. If with Sun and Saturn — causes death. 


In female horoscope—wicked, piles, injury, accident, wanders 
from place to place, extra- marital affairs (definite), injury in 
the lower portion of back, smuggling, dacoity, devoid of 
happiness, ill health, devoid of husband, poor, sufferings, 
violent, death due to wound or injury or even husband dies, 
abortions, widow, separation from husband. 


Ninth House:- 


Intelligent, wicked, does not get reward of hard work, jealous, 
priggish, angry, officer or leader, famous, opponent of mother, 


177 


financial crises, unlucky, ascetic, injury by water, people feel 
jealous of him, windy problem, sufferings to father at the age 
of 14. Fortunate after the age of 28, main person of family, 
devotee of lord Hanuman in the earlier birth, wife and selfdo 
not have elder brother, devoid of father’s happiness, fear from 
fire and poison, violent, relations with preceptor’s wife, 
fortunate in foreign land, eyes and skin trouble. 


Ifaspected by Sun and Saturn — handicapped. Ifin own sign 
— extra marital relations, wealth from son. If with malefics or 
weak planets — long life. If with benefic or with friendly planets 
— favourable results. If exalted — relations with preceptor’s 
wife. If with Mercury — atheist. If with benefic planets — senior 
officer, hunter, honoured by government. Ifin Gemini, Libra 
or Aquarius sign— goes against principles. Ifin Taurus, Virgo, 
Scorpio, Capricorn or Pisces sign —benefic results. Ifin Cancer 
sign—troubles of hips and back. If with Saturn —neurological 
problem. If with Sun—very famous. 


In female horoscope — unlucky, atheist, devoid of happiness 
from brother, runs away from home, opponent, does follow 
other religion, beautiful, ill health, fond of meat/wine, 
abandoned by own people, artist, devoid of wealth, famous. 


Tenth House:- 


Enjoys high status in society, brings name and fame to family, 
intelligent, wealthy, poet, happy, famous, comforts of good 
vehicles, landlord, long life, officer in police/military, senior 
officer, good administrator, financial gains at the age of 28, 
tremendous improvement in position after birth, fear of arms 


178 


at the age of 26 or 28 or 54. Successful in business, title from 
govt., adventurous like lion, self-made, liked by females, serves 
the great people, brother long-lives, destroyer of maternal 
uncles, possibility of father’s death at the age of 18 but the 
same will not be an obstacle in prosperity. 


If in Aries, Taurus, Virgo, Scorpio or Capricorn signs — 
reputed, serves the people, business of fire arms or arms. If 
weak — pleasure seeker, does not take responsibility. If with 
strong planets — devotee, fortunate, long life of brothers. If 
under the influence of benefics or in the sign of benefic planet 
— success. If under the influence of malefics — obstacles, 
problems. If with Jupiter — very fortunate. Ifin Pisces sign 
with Mercury — salvation. If with Sun —fear of death or injury 
by falling from height. If with Saturn — employed in prison, 
police or military. 


In female horoscope— devoid of father’s happiness, favourable 
results if in service, employed in investigation departments/ 
anti corruption departments. (If mars is in own sign or exalted 
— enjoys high status in these departments), has her own 
principles and ways, doubtful chastity. If Mars aspected by 
strong and benefic planets — important person in family, wife 
of officer of high status, helpful to others. 


Eleventh House:- 


Wealthy, destroyer of enemies, gain in the business of animals, 
love of justice, brave, quarrelsome, angry, priggish, patience, 
ambitious, enjoys high status, does not suffer. Gain from 
government or working with army, palatial house, collections 


179 


of vehicles/ land/ gold/copper/ coral, melodious voice, 
fortunate at the age of 24, loss if business is done from other’s 
money, gains if own money is used, gains from business of 
vehicles and dairy products, fond of good food, always speaks 
truth, special gains at the age of 24 and 25. 


If exalted — extremely fortunate. If with two benefic planets — 
Maha Raja Yoga. If in Aries, Taurus, Virgo, Scorpio, 
Sagittarius, Capricorn sign or aspected by benefics — gets the 
help of friends. If having no benefic aspect—loss through bad 
characters. If with Saturn —employed in the prison, police or 
military. If Jupiter is with Saturn or aspect of Saturn on Mars 
and Jupiter — ear problem or deafness. 


In female horoscope — wealthy, prosperous, progeny, 
conveyance, happy, gains, no desires, good nature, religious, 
devoted to her husband, abortions. 


Twelfth House:- 


Lucky due to brother, destroyer of religion, gets bad name 
even without doing any wrong thing, sadness, loss due to 
cheating or theft, marak of spouse or devoid of spouse, right 
eye defective, always under debt but frees himself from debt 
before death, quarrelsome, foolish, wicked, handicapped, loss 
due to animals or theft, unreliable, fear of being imprisoned, 
death of brother, unlucky, injured by arms, loss due to servants, 
extra-marital relations, atheist, sudden death of uncle, pleasure 
seeker, sexual but devoid of marital happiness, mother and 
brother suffer at the age of 28. 


180 


If with malefics — hypocrate. If with Ketu — fear of fire at 
home, death of wife. Ifin Cancer or Pisces sign — licentious. 
If with Venus — wicked, bad deeds, punishment from govt., 
suffers at the age of 45. Ifin own sign with Saturn— death due 
to piles, fistula etc. Ifin Leo sign — ups and downs in life, 
suffers from deadly disease. 


In female horoscope — extravagant, eyes problem, foreign 
travel, short lived, devoid of marital happiness, ingratitude, 
devoid of qualities, expenditure for bad cause, fond of drinks, 
sexy, always angry, widow, separation, bad character. 


MERCURY 
First House:- 


Intelligent, follows principles and rules, interest in religious 
activities, well formed body, cheerful, long-life, mathematician, 
jovial, generous, very sweet in conversation, remains healthy 
till death (however suffers from Jaundice even if it is in Mool 
Trikona sign), suffers at the age of 4, mole in the body, suffers 
from boils, destroys malefic effect of other planets provided 
Mercury is strong, pilgrimage at the age of 27, always looks 
young, highly educated, fond of learning astrology, stomach 
ailments, fond of Arhar pulse. 

If weak — even medicine has no effect, children short lived. If 
in Capricorn sign — wicked, unbending. Ifin Gemini, Virgo, 
Libra, or Aquarius sign intelligent, good orator. Ifin Scorpio 
sign—chemist or physician. If with malefic—jaundice, ailments 


181 


of bile. If exalted or in own sign — happiness from brother 
provided Rahu is not posited in 3™ house. If with Saturn — 
trouble in left eye. Ifin Capricom sign—plumpy body, impotent. 
If with lord of 6" or 8" house — defect of semen. If in Mool 
Trikona sign— extremely happy. If with lord of 2" house — 
orator, diplomat. If with Rahu—imaginative. 


In female horoscope — intelligent, healthy, lucky, reputed, 
wealth, conveyance, employed in teaching job, long life, big 
and beautiful eyes, beautiful, prosperous, loving nature, soft— 
spoken, always speaks truth, progeny, sculpture. If Mercury 
in Mool Trikona sign and Jupiter is in 11" house— becomes a 
queen. 


Second House:- 


Intelligent, hard worker, good orator, intellectual pursuits, 
agent/ advocate/ leader/ chartered accountant/ judge, 
intellectual, no wasteful expenditure, brave, fond of collecting 
many things, wealthy, long hair, progeny, honour form govt. 
Fortunate at the age of 25, wasteful expenditure at the age of 
29, financial loss at the age of 26, sudden gain at the age of 
36, sufferings at the age of 15. Logical, no patience, cannot 
be imprisoned even if involved in number of litigation cases 
provided Mercury is alone in 2™ house, enjoys all comforts, 
donor, devotee of father, skin disease, fond of sweets. 


If it is lord of 1*, 7", 8",or 11 house — devoid of wealth, 
separation from family. If with malefics — wicked, uneducated, 
windy problems. Ifin Leo sign —benefic results in the main 
period and sub period of Mercury to the extent it is weak or 


182 


afflicted with malefics. If with Venus and having aspect of 
benefics — successful businessman. If with Moon — weak eyes. 
If with Rahu-— good luck, helpful, brings good luck for others. 
If with Jupiter — wealthy, learned, preceptor, brave. 


In female horoscope — prosperous, famous, intelligent, 
influential, prosperity in family, agent or leader, critic, longlife, 
soft — spoken, donor, beautiful, serves ascetics, progeny, 
religious, obedient. 


Third House:- 


Friendship with business class, interest in business, in company 
of brave people, polite, soft spoken, efficient, hard worker, 
fearful, palmist, writer, poet, editor, pleasure — seeker, fond 
of travel, few brothers, medium age, good co-borns, definitely 
leaves the motherland, ascetic, suffers due to son, financial 
gains to father at the age of 12. Depression and fearful during 
main/ sub — period of Rahu, understands secrets of trade, 
successful businessman, favourable for doctor/ judge. 


If with Mars— husband of sister suffers. If with strong planets 
long life. Ifin Gemini sign—author and publisher. If with Jupiter 
— preceptor, brave. If with Venus — good luck and gains from 
business. If with Rahu— good luck, helpful to others. If with 
Ketu — it is an unfavourable combination and remedies of 
Mars are helpful. 


In female horoscope — settles in foreign land, fond of travel, 
happiness from brother, singer. dancer, poet, donor, fame, 
gives birth to capable children, popular, influential, wealthy, 


183 


fame through sons, obedient, beloved of brothers, few 
brothers, gives importance to her own work. 


Fourth House:- 


Intelligent, fame, honour, highly educated, devoid of paternal 
wealth, comfort of conveyance, fortunate, donor, plumpy body, 
lazy, writer, diplomats, always ahead of his colleagues, 
knowledge of occult subjects, enjoys all comforts. Gets gifts 
at the age of 16, financial loss at the age of 22, involved in 
embezzlement at the age of 26. Friendship with people of 
very high status, leader or senior officer, others write whatever 
is said by him. Fond of songs and dance. 


Ifin Virgo sign—very happy, good education. If exalted or in 
own sign— deceitful, contact with number of females, ill during 
childhood. If with Moon — not capable of giving good results. 
If with Rahu or Ketu or Saturn — conveyance, devoid of 
happiness, wicked. Ifin Pisces sign — auspicious. If debilitated 
or with malefics— successful in local politics. 


In female horoscope— expert in government work, beautiful, 
polite, intellectual, all types of comforts provided Mercury is 
not combust or retrograde, long life, religious, happy, keeps 
everybody happy, belongs to renowned family, comforts of 
servants, sexual, jovial. 


Fifth House:- 


Minister or adviser, devoid of happiness of progeny, possibility 
of son in the old age, selfish, wicked, accumulates wealth, 
good progress. Accountant or mathematician or lawyer, first 


184 


issue is female, learns mantras, mother suffers at the age of 5 
and 16, financial loss at the age of 22. Gets money buried 
underground, first pregnancy of wife is destroyed, painful 
speech, company of wicked, death of maternal uncle, expert 
in arguing, sufferings to father, happiness to mother, gambler 
and speculator, recluse, influential in public. 


Ifcombust or in enemy’s sign — destroyer of son. If with Rahu 
—speculator. If with Saturn — only one issue. If with malefics 
or aspected by malefics — pleasure seeker, gambler, mad 
progeny. If in Cancer sign — few sons. If in Scorpio sign — 
more it is weak or under affliction better will be the results 
during its main and sub-period. Ifin Virgo sign — maternal 
happiness. If in own sign and Moon and Mars are in 11" 
house — very wealthy. 


In female horoscope — intelligent, educated, accountant, 
teacher, name and fame, lover of music, technical education, 
mainly female issue, fond of argument, characterless, fond of 
travelling without any aim, few sons, quarrelsome, wicked, 
devoid of wealth, no respect for saints. 


Sixth House:- 


Opponent, expenditure on study of Yantra and Mantra, 
quarrelsome, lazy, priggish, leader of opposition party, 
sufferings equivalent to death at the age of 37, honour from 
government, ayurvedic doctor, pure meals, fear of enemy at 
the age of 21, 36 and 37, fear of arms at age of 26 and 32. 
Financial gains from cousins or other near relations, ailments 
in the navel, defeat of enemies, gastric problems, gains of 


185 


spiritual knowledge from saints, expenditure in religious and 
auspicious work, gain from business of gems, sufferings due 
to deceitful servants, maternal uncles have only female issues. 


If with malefic Mars — possibility of getting mad or committing 
suicide. Ifretrograde or with benefics-always suffers, fear from 
enemies. If with strong planets, head of family or leader of 
society. If debilitated or in enemy’s sign —destroyer of clan or 
tribe. If in sign of benefic planets or with benefics aspected by 
benefics — happy, victory over enemies. If with Mars or Saturn 
—attracted to the opposite sex, suicide due to females. Ifin 
Cancer sign — ailments of anus. If with Saturn or Rahu or 
Ketu — fear of enemies. 


In female horoscope—angry, increase in number of enemies, 
healthy, happiness from progeny, independent, destroyer of 
enemies, impatient, sexual, helps others, short — lived, long 
hands, beautiful, pleasure seeker, proficient in work. If 
Mercury is aspected by benefics — ill health, fear of enemies. 


Seventh House:- 


Commanding appearance, belongs to family of high status, 
expert in business, wealthy, writer, editor, religious, impotent, 
generous, helpful for spouse, spouse belongs to rich family, 
gets lot of dowry, extra — marital relation, relations with rich 
female, non— vegetarian food, jovial, intimate, very beautiful 
wife, not in a position to satisfy spouse during sex. 


If in Gemini sign and Saturn is in 4", 8", or 12" house — 
sudden financial gain, gain in speculation. If with lord of 2"¢ 


186 


house — successful businessman. If strong — relations with 
number of females. If with Jupiter or aspected by Jupiter — 
bold, brave, highly proficient, able children, writer. If with Sun- 
destroyer of spouse. If with benefic planets — facility of 
conveyance at the age of 24. If in Pisces sign — urinary 
problems. If in Taurus sign — death of wife. If debilitated or in 
enemy sign—wife deceitful and brings disgrace to husband. If 
in Virgo sign—very happy. If lord of 7" house is in 2™ house 
— successful businessman. If with Venus and aspected by 
benefic planets successful in business. 


In female horoscope — fully devoted husband, involved is some 
profession, friends, long life, chastity, happy, intellectual, good 
nature, religious, beautiful, good progeny. If Mercury is with 
Saturn — religious, either husband is impotent or she is barren. 


Eighth House:- 


Long life, well known figure in his own country and in foreign 
land, gains through business, beloved of fair sex. Females enjoy 
his company, extra — marital sex, poet, judge, and orator, 
lawyer, chartered accountant, religious, ascetic. Weak in 
studies till the age of 12, gets divine power, stomachache or 
pain in thighs, loss in partnership, sudden financial gains, it 
does not cause death even if it is malefic, does not cause 
much problem before death, head of family, always speaks 
truth, honour from government, embezzlement of other’s 
money. Special honour and luck at the age of 25, suffers at 
the age of 28, 32 and 35. 


If with malefics—sinner, sexual, short —life. Ifin Libra sign — 


187 


healthy, wealthy, devoid of happiness from progeny. Ifin own 
sign/ exalted or with strong planets — long life. 


In female horoscope — orator, ingratitude, advocate lawyer, 
chartered accountant, poetess, long life, intelligent. (If with 
malefics — smuggler), haughty, ill health, large number of 
enemies, opponents, impatient, timid. Weak in studies till the 
age of 14, gets inheritance. 


Ninth House:- 


Religious, intellectual, gets Vedic and Tantric education, brings 
fame to the family, adventurous, famous, shuts mouth of 
wicked people, devotee of father, good orator, donor, helps 
other, research oriented, interested in new things/ objects. 
During transit of Saturn in 9" house there is possibility of death 
of mother. Editor, writer, teacher, sons, destroyer of enemies, 
poet, interest in learning music, astrologer, always adopts the 
path of religion, lucky, prosperous, dominating nature. 
Possibility of death of mother at the age of 16 or 26. Luck 
favours at the age of 32, pilgrimage. 


If with benefics — knowledge of Vedas and Tantra Shastra, 
wealthy, comforts of conveyance. If with malefic — adopts the 
wrong path, believes in other’s religion. If with Venus — gets 
important title. If with Jupiter and Venus — Rajyog. If Jupiter 
and Rahu in 7" house — leaves his own country. 


In female horoscope — religious, intelligent, long life, polite, 
fame, chastity, clever, good deeds, beloved of husband, fasts. 
If Mercury is with malefics — inauspicious results. 


188 


Tenth House:- 

Gets inheritance, administrator and criminologist, has 
reputation for justice and fair play, talks less, intellectual, 
popular, enjoy, reputation in society, poet, writer, devotee of 
parents, judge, magistrate, advocate, administrator, in 
government, dominating disposition, luck favours in financial 
matters. Financial gains at the age of 16, 27 and 29, high 
status in government, respected by others, enjoys all comforts, 
gets success in beginning itself, good memory. 


In exalted or in own sign or with Jupiter — religious. If with 
Mars — jovial. If with malefic or the enemy planets — corrupt. 
If debilitated or with malefics- pain in knees. Ifin Virgo sign— 
very happy. If lord of 10" house is also lord of Navamsa— 
business of textiles. 


In female horoscope — religious, Rajyog, judge, magistrate, 
long life, obedient of husband, character, prosperous, 
respectful, lucky, tolerant, always speaks truth, understands 
politics, respects preceptor, devoted to husband. 


Eleventh House:- 


Wealthy, prosperous, respected, long life, systematic, fame, 
intellectual, poet, editor, sons, destroyer of enemies, gains 
through government, gains in business, well educated, high 
status, idealistic, follows the path of truth, indigestion, interest 
in occult subjects, astrologer and palmist, dyspepsia, very 
happy in the age of 45, lucky at the age of 19, successful in 
business, more number of female issues, architect. 


If with malefics — wicked, financial loss. If exalted or in own 


189 


sign-gains from good deeds. If in Aries sign — dispute with 
elder brother. Ifin Virgo sign-respect, material happiness, 
donates everything, short life. If with Jupiter — lucky at the 
age of 11, 23 and 36, ups and downs in financial matters. If 
with Saturn — all comforts, amasses wealth at the age of 45. If 
with Venus — good health, long life. If with Rahu—loss, disease, 
unlucky, miseries. 


In female horoscope— wealthy, high status, happy, prosperous, 
high thinking, financial gains, devoted to husband, polite, dark 
—colour, expert in lending and borrowing. 


Twelfth House:- 


Intelligent but lazy, advocate, religious, knowledge of religion, 
affectionate with co—borns, expenditure on business, settles 
in foreign land, service of jail or court, association with wicked 
people, interested in extra — marital relations, financial loss at 
the age of 22, wife suffers at the age of 44 or 48, surgery of 
eyes after the age of 26, more than one source of income, 
expenditure for good cause, strong enemies are defeated, 
involved in religious activities, uncles happy, 


If weak — inauspicious results. If with Sun— benevolent, less 
no. of issues, whimsical. If with malefics — playful, opponent 
of government. If Mars is in 2"* house — madness. If with 
Jupiter — poor, deligent. If with Moon—unfavourable, marital 
problems. 


In female horoscope — fond of travel, expenditure on 
education, impolite, devoid of wealth, quarrelsome, no fame, 
ill health, gains from relations, lean and thin. 


190 


JUPITER 
First House:- 


Destroys all malefic effects, respected, interested in occult 
subjects, long life, expenditure on tourism, proficient, clear in 
thoughts, handsome, happy, wealthy, polite, soft spoken, sons, 
religious, loves justice, high status, happiness from son, devotee 
of god, enjoys prosperity since childhood, good deeds, 
salvation, high status in government if Jupiter has directional 
strength, enjoys good food, knowledge of Vedas, lucky at 
the age of 16, fortunate at the age of 26. 


If with Mars — financial gains. If in Sagittarius sign or with 
malefics — gambler, speculator, priggish. If in Pisces sign — 
highly educated, progeny, polite. Ifin Aries or Leo sign—self 
pride. If in Taurus, Virgo or Capricorn sign — selfish. If in 
Scorpio or Pisces sign — joyful, pleasure— seeker, extravagant. 
If debilitated or under influence of malefics — wicked, 
separation from family, number of enemies, medium life. [fin 
own or friendly sign — long life, happy, honour, and sons. If 
with Saturn or aspected by Saturn — philosopher, mental 
torture, religious. If exalted — salvation, multi— millionaire. If 
Saturn is in 7" house — gastric problems, neurological 
problems. If with Ketu— comforts like kings. 


In female horoscope — long life, progressive, high respect, 
intellectual, wise, religious, serious nature, prosperous, chastity, 
always speaks truth, very beautiful, handsome body, important 
among females, successful in politics, comforts of queen, 
member of parliament / legislature assembly, leader among 


191 


women, beloved of husband. 
Second House:- 


Words are well chosen, well spoken, poet, administrative 
capability, handsome, honour from government, works for 
good cause, long life, respected by affluents, beautiful face, 
businessmen, good in grammar, knowledge of Vedas, good 
food, good orator, respect in society, does not enjoy material 
happiness, impotent, sometimes defeated, difficulty in getting 
material gains, Judge/ magistrate, collector, devoid of 
happiness of father, no inheritance, may be adopted by others, 
education incomplete, wife dies before husband. 


Ifin Virgo sign—very wealthy. If debilitated or with malefics — 
debtor, cheat, corrupt, without male issue, extra — marital 
relations, fond of wine. Ifin Sagittarius sign—no problem of 
teeth till the age of 52. If debilitated — ailments of mouth. If 
exalted / in own sign/in Mool trikone sign —very wealthy. If 
aspected by Mercury — poor. If with Venus — wealthy. If Venus 
in 12™ house — wealthy. If in Virgo or Sagittarius sign and 
retrograde — number of sons, prosperous. If with Ketu — 
power, authority, wealthy (provided no planet in 8" house) 


In female horoscope — prosperous, good orator, prosperity 
of family, without jealousy, does not wish bad for others, fame 
in family, very fortunate, charming, religious, fond of justice, 
leader among females, high status, with jewellery / gems. 


Third House:- 


Wicked, difficulty in material gains, dyspepsia, writer, settles 


192 


on foreign land, happiness from brothers but cause of suffering 
for brothers, ascetic, theist, sexual, fond of foreign land, 
defeated by spouse, businessmen, 20" year of life is very 
important, foreign travel at the age of 38, yogkarak in its main/ 
sub — period, is not a reliable or ingratitude friend, does not 
enjoy comforts of life even through honoured by government, 
weak, religious, spiritual, serious, peaceful. 


Ifin Gemini sign — fortunate. Ifin Aries, Taurus, Leo, Libra, 
Scorpio, Sagittarius or Pisces sign—medium results. If afflicted 
with Mars — obstacles. If aspected by malefics — devoid of 
wealth. If with benefics — brothers long lived. If in Aries, Leo 
or Sagittarius sign — influential, victorious. Ifin Taurus, Virgo 
or Capricorn sign — successful in business. If in Cancer, 
Scorpio, or Pisces sign — gains from foreign travel. If in 
Sagittarius or Pisces sign—only one brother. Ifin Taurus or 
Aquarius sign — suffers due to brothers. 


In female horoscope—definitely settles on foreign land, playful, 
ascetic, sportswoman, ill health, without any influence, no 
respect, sinful, deformity in body, devoid of wealth, co-borns 
without wisdom. If Jupiter is aspected by Moon— wealthy. 


Fourth House:- 


All comforts, comfort of conveyance, even the enemies praise, 
unsatisfied, ascetic, handsome, hard worker, opponent of 
children, popular, devotee of parents, reputed, good behavior, 
progressive, astrologer, fortunate on foreign land, death while 
remembering god, good education, philosopher, enjoys all 
material comforts, employed in govt. service as gazetted 


193 


officer, fast promotions, happiness from co-borns at the age 
of 12 and 20. Respects the preceptor, fortunate at the age of 
22, ability to drive different types of vehicles, enemies cannot 
do any harm, religious. 


If in Scorpio sign —so powerful that even malefics have no 
adverse effects. If lord of 8" and 11" house — harmful. If with 
strong planets/ benefics/ Moon or Venus — big residential 
accommodation, conveyance etc. If with malefics — wicked. 
If exalted—salvation. If in Taurus sign—multi millionaire. 


In female horoscope— comforts of conveyance, wealth and 
property, happiness of parents, long life, wise, reputed, fond 
of good food, always happy, well educated with jewelry and 
gems, famous. If Jupiter is aspected by Moon — wealthy, 
comforts during old age, many servants, rich parents and in— 
laws. 


Fifth House:- 


Pleasure seeker, fond of taking rest, good orator, imaginative, 
poet, writer, financial gains — in speculation, progeny, policy — 
maker, literary, minister / advisor/ secretary, problems due to 
sons, polite, soft — spoken. 


If aspected by benefics — sons. If aspected by malefics/ 
enemies/ or lord of 6", 8" or 12" house/ debilitated — only 
one son remains alive. 


If with malefics — death of child. If afflicted — gambler, 
speculator. If retrograde — suffers. If with Rahu/Ketu-death 
of son. If exalted or in own sign — problem with progeny, 


194 


more number of female issues. If in Aries sign — generous, 
high thinking, destroyer of enemies. If debilitated-atheist. Ifin 
sign of retrograde planet — sufferings, suffers because of 
children. 


In female horoscope-name and fame, well educated, gets 
scholarship, sons and gains through sons, very beautiful, 
chastity, able children. Soft— spoken, good deeds, religious, 
always speaks truth, good orator, good husband, Vedic and 
religious education, successful in competitions for govt. 
service. If aspected by Moon — wealthy. 


Sixth House:- 


Ill health, destroyer of enemies, victorious, happiness of spouse, 
devoid of happiness of maternal uncle, ill health of mother, 
obstacles in progress, insulted, corrupt, astrologer, doctor or 
ayurvedic physician, business of paper, lucky in speculation, 
indigestion, intelligent, famous, generous, good deeds, fear of 
ill health or arms during the age of 40. Suffers at the age of 
6,8, and12. Nose problems, lover of music, lazy; does well in 
the service of health department, signs of injury in body. 


Ifin enemy’s sign or retrograde — danger or loss from enemies. 
If in sign of Saturn and with Rahu — chronic or dangerous 
disease or T.B. Ifin Sagittarius or Pisces sign — enemies are 
from own caste. If with Ketu— charming nature, knowledge 
of death in advance provided second house is vacant. 


In female horoscope —ill health, angry, number of enemies, 
life full of problems, more enemies and opponents, bulky body 
or overweight, speaks truth, no interest in household work. If 


195 


debilitated or with malefics — ill health. 
Seventh House:- 


Very intelligent, famous, lucky, orator, wise, artist, polite, 
patience, settles on foreign land, extramarital relations 
(definite), wife very intelligent, children happy, sons-more, 
polite and with better status than father, beautiful, fortunate 
after marriage, successful in profession, marriage at the age 
of 22 or 34. Special progress at the age of 34. Wife of same 
caste, co-borns, priggish, illegal relations with Brahman lady, 
wife of fair colour, soft spoken, charming personality, gets 
fame in justice. 


Ifin Pisces sign— delay in marriage. If weak/ with malefics/ 
aspected by malefics — extra—marital relations. Ifin Capricorn 
or Aquarius sign — inauspicious results but increase the 
signification of houses which are being aspected. If in Capricorn 
sign — wife short — lived. If debilitated or in enemy’s sign — 
wicked and corrupt wife. If in Aquarius sign — gets respect, 
famous. If exalted or in own sign — definitely corrupt. 


In female horoscope — character beyond doubt, happiness of 
husband, employed, wealthy, famous, happy, intelligent, more 
number of enemies, good husband, beloved of husband, fond 
of travelling, faithful to husband. 


Eighth House:- 


Long life, away from father, good health, happy, patience, 
charming, intelligent, writer, often in service, friends spend 
money on him, corrupt, greedy, suffers from venereal disease, 


196 


barbarous, astrologer, ill health or fear of death at the age of 
31. Yogkarak during own main/ sub — period, mentally 
disturbed, luck does not favour, defeated, salvation, relations 
with poor or low caste females, no inheritance, financial gains 
in marriage, gets wealth due to will by others. 


Ifstrong—sudden financial gains. If exalted or in own house — 
knowledge of religions. If lord of 8" house is malefic—relations 
with widow at the age of 17. If lord of 8" house is weak — 
short lived, wicked, pleasure seeker. If exalted — salvation. If 
with lord of 2™ house — defects of speech. If with Moon — 
inauspicious. 

In female horoscope — long life, good health, bulky body, 
bulky hands and feet; eats very less, always tells lie, no chastity, 
separation from husband, pleasure seeker, playful, wanders 
on pilgrims, shortage of money, devoid of husband and son. 
If aspected by Moon — long life, husband long-lived. 


Ninth House:- 


Sons, favourite of king, affection with co-borns, plans remain 
incomplete because of laziness, famous, devotee, knowledge 
of Vedas, fortunate, intellectual, knowledge of many subjects, 
ascetic, minister/advisor/secretary, no desires during old age, 
beautiful, civil engineer, draftsman, liked by females, lucky on 
foreign land, interested in occult subjects, financial gains/ 
income from administrative service, prosperity at the age of 
33, yogkarak during its period, preceptor during last birth, 
co-borns are polite, religious, father. suffers at the age of 15, 
luck favours at the age of 16. 


197 


If exalted — fame, salvation. If with Rahu/Ketu or aspected 
by Saturn — unsuccessful. Ifin Cancer, Capricorn or Pisces 
sign — marine journeys, foreign travel. If in Aries, Taurus, 
Gemini, Leo, Virgo, Libra, Scorpio, or Sagittarius sign-land 
travels. If Aries sign— generous, polite, high thinking, destroyer 
of enemies. If with lord of 3“ house — prosperity after the age 
of 20. 


In female horoscope — lucky, religious, donor, intelligent, looks 
like goddess, famous, gratitude, all types of comforts, destroys 
the malefic effects of other planets, high status of husband, 
beloved of husband. 


Tenth House:- 


Land lord, palatial house, artist, unsatisfied with sons, good 
deeds, good conduct, fame, wise, just, expert in occult 
subjects, independent thinker, devotee of rich parents, high 
status, judge/ magistrate/ administrator officer, favourite of 
king, fortunate at the age of 12, financial gains at the age of 12 
and 19, successful in politics, continuous progress in 
government service, comforts of latest conveyance, not 
interested in females other than wife, religious, many people 
dine at home. 


If with malefics — wicked, obstacles. If exalted — salvation, 
guests are welcomed at home. 


In female horoscope—happiness and gains from father, lucky 
for father, social, political, name —fame, wise, generous, donor, 
gets famous due to some important work, servants, interesting 
business, successful in politics, sons, jewellery, loved, by 


198 


husband. 
Eleventh House:- 


Fame, prosperity from childhood, teacher, professor, 
preceptor, gains from govt. treasury, helpful for others, 
expenditure for good cause, engaged in profession, good 
health, intellectual, adventurous, beloved of number of females, 
architect, artist, civil contractor, civil engineer, long life, lucky 
after birth of son, fortune teller, financial gains at the age of 
24, gains at the age of 32, suffers due to elder brother, gets 
good and valuable articles, understands the responsibility of 
father, others enjoy with his money. 


If with Moon — very fortunate, gets others’ property. If 
debilitated — pains in legs. Ifin Cancer sign— more number of 
female issues, long life, female issues in its own period. 


In female horoscope—wealth, property, sudden financial gains, 
well educated, has control on senses, fame, religious, artist, 
donor, always speaks truth, wealthy like queen, member of 
parliament/ legislature assembly, beloved of husband. 


Twelfth House:- 


Lazy, greedy, knowledge of religion, expenditure of religious 
deeds, fond of yogas, editor, confidence, expenditure, on 
guests, children are spoiled, heart problem, service, serves 
lower caste people, lucky due to friends, loss of money at the 
age of 25, eyes — trouble, laziness in helping preceptors and 
co-borns, venereal disease, sexual relations with Brahmin and 
pregnant females. 


199 


If malefic-inauspicious results. If benefic — auspicious results. 
If debilitated — convict, children are spoiled. If lord of 6" 
house — good health. If exalted — salvation. If debilitated — 
very wealthy. 


In female horoscope — expenditure on education, expenditure 
on guests, social service, ill health, likes others religions, playful, 
friendship with males, fond of travel. If debilitated or in enemies 
sign —quarrelsome, bad name, devoid of wealth. 


VENUS 
First House: 


Every part of body is extremely beautiful, attracted by opposite 
sex, all comforts, long life, healthy, soft spoken, intellectual, 
sexual, proficient in government work, effective, attractive face, 
comforts of wealth and conveyance, mole at back, cockpit, 
stomach or at sexual organs, always ahead of colleagues, mark 
of injury on forehead at the age of 12, sexual pleasure at the 
age of 17, jovial, fond of songs and dance, wicked, cheat, 
destroyer-of strong enemies, very talkative, artist, fear from 
dogs or animals having horns, rigid, charm, attracts opposite 
sex, has full control on females. 


If with Moon, Mars or Mercury — long life, pleasure, seeker, 
honour from government. If in Taurus, Gemini, Libra or 
Aquarius or Pisces, sign—benefic results. If in Aries, Cancer, 
Scorpio or Capricorn favourable results. If in Cancer or 
Scorpio and aspected by Mars — pleasure seeker. If combust 
or aspected by malefic or with malefics — gastric problems. If 
in own sign — Raj yog. If with Mars or aspected by Mars — 


200 


successful in medical profession, famous in music. Ifin Scorpio 
— foreign travel with females. Ifin own sign and Mercury and 
Saturn are together in any house-very wealthy. 


In female horoscope—happy, very beautiful, healthy, charming, 
attractive, good conduct, soft spoken, self made, happiness 
of husband, wise, prosperous, generous, priggish, handsome 
husband, no defect, destroyer of enemies, fair complexion, 
husband long lived, sons. If Venus is in Pisces sign—pleasure 
seeker. If Venus is in own sign/ exalted — not very beautiful. 


Second House:- 


Poet, soft spoken, intellectual, handsome, beautiful and 
devoted wife, particular about dress, respected by all, fond 
of sweets, extra— marital relations, jewelers, fond of wearing 
gems, fortunate, adventurous, hard workers, helps others, 
financial gains, good food, prosperous, lucky wife, fond of 
singing, well educated, a head of colleagues, knowledge of 
occult subjects, long life, comfort of conveyance — sexual 
relations with beautiful female at the age of 32. 32™ year is 
significant from many points of view, gain of property in the 
age of 60, face and body attractive, worship of gods, voice 
attracts opposite sex, beautiful eyes, gets his work done by 
offering wine to friends, more than one marriage, lucky after 
matriage, wife also earns. 


If with Moon — destruction of family, eyes trouble, loss of 
wealth. Ifaspected by Moon — problems in financial gains. If 
with Sun — eyes troubles. If debilitated — debtor, may get 
even life imprisonment. Ifalone with malefics or aspected by 


201 


malefics — loss due to government or theft, problems in 
joumeys. [f with Saturn or Mars —chastity of wife doubtful. If 
exalted — hesitates in accepting or giving alms. If not in 
debilitation/ enemy’s sign provided Lagna lord is strong-like 
king. 


In female horoscope — extremely beautiful, may act in movies, 
do modelling or take part in beauty pageant, soft, healthy, 
happiness of family, fame, poetess, writer, believes in artificial 
show, proficient, good deeds (definite), with lot of jewellery. 


Third House:- 


Not attracted by females, unsatisfied, with sons, miser, lazy, 
artist, lucky, intellectual, fond of travel, playful, clever, extra— 
marital relations, successful with the help of sister, weak eye- 
sight, wife beautiful but unsatisfied with her, liking towards 
dance, sports, games, love marriage, prosperity at the age of 
20, less brothers and more sisters, luck favours at the age of 
22 and 29, obstacles in marriage, more than one marriage, 
wife of different caste and more in age, weak constitution, 
softspoken, fond of wearing good dresses. 


If with malefics or aspected by malefics — more than one 
marriage of father. If lord of 8" house is in 8" house — 
obstacles, suffering, imprisonment. 


In female horoscope — very wealthy, dancer (definite), devoid 
of happiness of husband and servants, no worries, harsh voice, 
good deeds, polite, number of brothers, affectionate, sisters, 
slim body, sexy, does not respect saints. 


202 


Fourth House:- 


Ahead of colleagues, high status, number of friends, 
prosperous, devotee of mother, long life, helpful for others, 
theist, clever, luck, wife very lucky, fond of singing, well 
educated, all comforts, self independent, wife very beautiful 
and helpful in other aspects of life, mother harsh, gain of 
immovable property and comfort and comfort of conveyance 
at the age of 30, respected, all material comforts, devotee of 
god, inheritance, happiness from co-borns at the age of 12 
and20, interference by wife and other females in the important 
aspects of life. 


Iflord of 7" house — lot of dowry in marriage or earning wife. 
If weak — number of female issues. If with Mars — may have 
to sell his house, most sexual. [funder the influence of malefics 
— extra marital relations. If with Saturn — comforts through 
females. If with Rahu — very sexy having number of illicit 
relations. 


In female horoscope-— self-made, all comforts, jovial, chastity, 
famous in family, wealthy, adopts other’s religion, very 
beautiful, devotee of husband, full control of senses, religious. 


Fifth House:- 


Happy, destroyer of enemies, successful, heart of a poet, 
pleasure—seeker, fond of justice, theist, generous, professional, 
more number of females, brave, inheritance, purchases house, 
mostly in service, all comforts of life, sons, argues well, minister/ 
secretary/ general/ in army high status, daughters married in 
very good families, son in laws, are very courteous, honour 


203 


from government, relations with number of females, sons, 
wealth comes automatically without much efforts, poet, fond 
of sweets, wife is a pleasure seeker. Fond of theatre/ movies, 
sudden gains in speculation, wife very beautiful and charming, 
more than one marriage. 


If debilitated/ in enemy’s or malefic sign/ combust — no sons, 
deligent, ill health of wife, devoid of happiness of wife. Ifin 
Virgo sign—ailment of stomach. Ifin Cancer sign —happiness 
after second marriage. If with Rahu-sexy and many illicit 
relations. 


In female horoscope — happy, all comforts, sons, handsome 
husband, speculative gains, very sexy and extra marital 
relations. 


Sixth House:- 


Daily new enemies, unsuccessful, spoiled by friends, 
extravagant, devoid of happiness of father and wife, lucky 
after marriage, greedy, does not maintain cordial relations with 
wife, extra — marital relations, happiness from service, 
backache, urinary problems, liver — disease, diabetes, disc- 
deformation, hunch backed, injury from arms at the age of 
21, fear from enemy at the age 41, impotent, friendship with 
wicked people, destroys the family due to recitation of 
inauspicious mantras, ill health, helpful to co-borns, mother 
and maternal uncle. 


If debilitated/ combust/ in enemy’s sign — ill health, 
quarrelsome, enemity. If exalted/ debilitated — successful. If 
combust — becomes intellectual even by taking birth in lower 


family. 


204 


In female horoscope — backache, opponent, jealous, angry, 
victory over enemies, harsh, devoid ofa happiness of husband 
and progeny, violent, deserted by husband and sons, cough 
and gastric problems, passionate, unhappy married life. 


Seventh House:- 


Always suffers from backache, pleasure — seeker, settles on 
foreign land, cannot work hard, generous, popular, wealthy, 
unnecessary worries, lucky after marriage, playful, marital 
happiness, wife beautiful but harsh, chances of wife being lost, 
fond of wine and non-veg food, baldy, quarrelsome, always 
quarrels with wife, wife very lucky, attractive personality, good 
behavior, enjoys sexual relations with very beautiful females, 
artist, more than one marriage, very sexual, beloved of 
females. 


If exalted/ in own sign -— gets fame due to wife. If in Scorpio 
or Capricorn sign—pleasure seeker. If in Leo sign— auspicious 
results. If debilitated or in enemy’s sign — wife wicked and 
chastity of wife doubtful. Ifin Aries, Scorpio, Capricorn or 
Aquarius sign in Navamsa and aspected by Mars or Saturn — 
pleasure seeker. If with malefics-ill health of wife or wife 
devoid of husband’s happiness. Ifin Scorpio sign — death of 
wife. If with Saturn — wife pleasure seeker or more than one 
marriage. If exalted — either father —in—law is very wealthy 
or gets lot of dowry. 


In female horoscope — self made, backache, sexy, prosperous, 
intellectual, fame, beloved of husband, religious, beloved of 
co-borns, devotee of Brahmans, acceptable everywhere, good 


205 


husband, happy marital life, passionate but having good 
character if there is no influence of Mars or Saturn. If with 
Mars — chastity doubtful or love marriage. 


Eighth House:- 


Comforts of conveyance, long — life, lives in other’s house, 
harsh, obstacles in success, debtor, ill health, angry, irritable, 
sufferings, venereal disease, hard worker, expenditure on 
females, attracted towards females, land lord, if does not die 
at the age of 4 than life is 75-80 years, corrupt, pleasure — 
seeker, mother and self suffer at the age of 4, worries about 
wife and son, wife devotee/ short spoken/ reliable. 


If debilitated — does not bother about ill health. If it is lord of 
2™ house — sudden gains. If in Taurus, Libra or Pisces sign— 
devoid of spouse and wealth, urinary problems. If in Libra 
sign—sufferings, journeys, imprisonment. If exalted— financial 
loss. 


In female horoscope- most sexual, love marriage, leucorrhaea, 
long life, devoid of wealth, sufferings, careless, cheat, chastity 
doubtful, impolite, quarrelsome, deceitful, dirty dress, beautiful 
eyes, priggish. 

Ninth House:- 

Very wealthy, religious, happiness of brothers, theist, wise, 
affectionate, pleasure-seeker, prosperity after marriage, 
proficient in government work, lucky due to government, 


happiness of wife/ sons/ friends, achievement of aim at the 
age of 15, fortunate at the age of 25, earns money in 


206 


administrative service, people recognize his house from 
distance, respect for preceptors and guests, good dress, calm 
and quiet, expertise and fame in singing/ playing of musical 
instruments/ movies. 


Ifin Capricorn sign-prosperity. If in Taurus sign—no obstacles. 
If with lord of 4" or 7" house — fortunate. If with malefics — 
sexual relations with preceptor’s wife or aged female. If with 
ketu—most auspicious results. 


In female horoscope — destroyer of malefic effects, religious, 
lucky, famous, happy, good conduct, patience, qualities of 
males, famous amongst females, body parts similar to males, 
influential like queen, asset, beloved of husband, social worker. 


Tenth House:- 


Greedy, wicked, devoid of progeny, pleasure seeker, wealthy, 
victorious, artist, or interest in handicrafts, career in film line 
or in music, or connected with cosmetics, success in business, 
high status, fear of arms at the age of 27, lucky at the age of 
22, does not get good results during its period, gains in business 
of precious metals, quarrelsome, hypocrite, extravagant. 


If exalted/in own sign—principal of Music College, differences 
with wife but friendship and gains from other females, worries 
of children. If aspected by Sun or Moon — gets many degrees 
and honours, gold medalist. 


In female horoscope — religious, career in films, music or 
fashion designing, helpful for others, chastity, prosperous, 
intellectual, fame, beautiful, speaks truth, member of parliament 


207 


or legislature assembly, wealthy, good deeds. 
Eleventh House:- 


Gains in all undertakings, handsome, polite, fame, lover of 
truth, wise, wealthy, lucky, deals in jewellery, fond of gems, 
well educated, popular figure, comfort of vehicle, lucky after 
marriage, officer of high status, relations with number of 
females, luck favours at the age of 22, financial gains at the 
age of 24, enemies are always afraid, expert in policies and 
dancing, extremely handsome. 


In Leo sign — auspicious results. If with malefics — gains in 
sinful deeds. If with benefics — gains in good deeds. If with 
Sun— gains from government. If with Moon — gain of property 
from friend. If debilitated or with lord of 8" house—no gains. 


In female horoscope — wealthy, happy, more number of 
daughters, influential, prosperous, always interested in gaining 
knowledge, gains, without any fault, knowledge of religion, 
owner of number of houses, knowledge of dancing, beautiful, 
jovial. 

Twelfth House:- 


No dearth of money, bulky body, extramarital relations and 
expenditure on females, lazy, lover of education, miser, 
destroyer of enemies, happy, longlife, pleasure seeker, 
independent, debtor, financial loss at the age of 45, fortunate 
due to wife, wife long lived, gets all comforts in life, dependant 
of females, always idling to have contact with females, lier, 
early marriage, possibility of more than one marriage. 


208 


If with Saturn — marriage with female of other caste or remains 
bachelor. If exalted — ascetic, wealthy. If with benefics — 
owners of cinema — hall or auditorium. If in Libra sign-problem 
in legs. If exalted/ debilitated — successful. If with Saturn or 
Mars-chastity of wife doubtful. If aspected by benefics — 
business or service connected with prison, charitable 
institutions or chemicals. 


In female horoscope — expenditure on self and family, sexy, 
love affairs, leaves the house, marriage according to her choice, 
hypocrite, priggish, ill health, wicked, ill during childhood. 


SATURN 
First House:- 


Prosperous, hard worker, deligent, ill health, victory over 
enemies, settles or foreign land, foreign travels, fond of tourism, 
obstacles in marriage till 30" year of age, sufferings, unhappy, 
greedy, bulky, gastric problems, either lives in other’s house 
or lives as a tenant, suffers during childhood, poverty, serious 
problem at the age of 5, tooth- ache, lazy, recluse. 


Ifin Virgo, Sagittarius, Capricorn, Aquarius or Pisces sign — 
no malefic effects, wealthy, intellectual, head person of village. 
If with Mars — injury, sudden death, suicidal tendencies, 
imprisonment, charges of accepting bribe. If aspected by 
Moon-fed by others. If exalted or in own sign — like king, 
most benefic. If Mars is in 7" house-ailments of private parts. 
Ifin enemy’s sign—separation form family. Ifin Aries, Taurus, 
Gemini, Cancer, Leo, Virgo or Scorpio sign-malefic results. 
Ifin Aquarius sign — big teeth. If in Sagittarius or Pisces sign- 


209 


intellectual and high status. Ifin Scorpio sign with malefics — 
unreliable. If with lord of 4" or 10" house — very strong Raj 
yog. Ifin Virgo sign — thief, suspicious. If aspected by Sun 
and Mars — ill health. If with Rahu—suffers from hydrocele. If 
in Aries sign and aspected by Sun-insomnia. 


In female horoscope — auspicious results if in own sign. If in 
Cancer, Sagittarius or Pisces sign—benefic results, fond of 
jewellery. In other signs — harmful. Injured by iron, long life, 
weak eye sight, thick teeth, heavy bones, hard worker, efficient 
in administration, helps others, bulky body, angry, creates 
problems for husband. If in own sign or exalted or aspected 
by Jupiter — above results become benefic. 


Second House:- 


Separation from family, lives in own country at a distant place 
from family, enjoys all comforts of life, harsh, uses arms for 
selfish needs, wanders in search of happiness, collection of 
goods, impatient, ailments of mouth, disrespect for ascetic, 
separation from co-borns, family suffers, lives in other’s house 
or lives as a tenant, dependent on others, not a good looking 
face, devoid of wealth, leaves his house and enjoys all comforts 
at other place, happy after the age of 36, injury in shoulders, 
paralysis, harsh, stammering, suffers constantly from mental 
worries, financial loss at the age of 12, manufacturer of 
medicine, manufactures small items with machines but does 
not gain much, practice of occult for bad cause, harm to house 
and children, suffers during childhood, happy at the age of 
28, wealthy after age of 36, happy and successful during old 
age. 


210 


If aspected by malefics — children are dead before birth. If 
with malefic or aspected by malefics — dog bite. If aspected 
by benefics — religious. If aspected by Mercury — wealthy by 
illegal means, bad habits. If Rahu is in 7" house — more then 
one marriage. If not aspected by benefics — obstacles in 
education. If with lord of 2™ house — fear of bite from mad 
dog. If with female planets — financial loss through association 
of wicked people, may be actor/ singer. 


In female horoscope — loss of family and wealth, long life, 
harsh, devoid of wealth, separation from near relations, 
insulted, ill health, wealth and happiness after middle age due 
to own efforts. 


Third House:- 


Ailments of throat, ear and teeth, influential speech, good 
health, cannot work hard, obstacles, suffering, intellectual, fond 
of watching wrestling or himself is a wrestler, victory over 
enemies, loss of co-born, ill health, during childhood, fond of 
singing and dancing, sports person, long life, unsuccessful till 
the age of 35, happiness of co-born at the age of 2 and 3, 
yogkarak during its period, mentally disturbed due to co-borns, 
unsuccessful inspite ofhard work, wickedness even with those 
who respect him, wicked, always bad words come out of 
mouth, dark complexion, dirty body. Marak for younger 
brothers, association of lower grade people, interest in 
astrology. 


If with Venus — jovial. If exalted or in own sign — number of 
brothers. If debilitated or combust — destroyer of brothers, 


211 


does not maintain good relations with relatives. If in Libra, 
Capricorn or Aquarius sign — cause of being fortunate. If with 
Sun and Mars — destroyer of co-borns. If with Rahu— ailments 
of arms or injury in arms. Ifin Aquarius sign—medium life. If 
in Aries sign—breathing troubles. If with Mars — service of 
prison, army, or police. 


In female horoscope — settles on foreign land, ascetic, 
sportswoman, dancer, actor, fame, wise, brave, number of 
issues, wise among intellectuals, praiseworthy, devoid of 
younger co-borns, extraordinary in strength and intelligence, 
earns herself and feeds to the family, powerful. 


Fourth House:- 


Ill health during childhood, obstacles in inheritance, sufferings 
from brothers, loss of family, sufferings to parents, devoid of 
strength, gets angry soon, wicked, deceitful, sadness, 
defamation, chest-pain, surgery of chest or injury or stabbing 
on chest, injury or accident, does not have his own house, 
hearttrouble, does not stay in newly constucted house, stays 
ona foreign land, differences with parents, sufferings during 
old age, problems due to wrong decisions, fear from animals, 
does not maintain good health, stepmother, feels as if life is 
made only to suffer. 


Ifin Libra sign — gain of property. If strong — loss of son. If in 
enemy’s sign — loss of all sons. If exalted or in own sign — 
wealthy, happy, comforts of vehicle. If retrograde — leaves 
own country, ill health throughout the life. If with benefics — 
gain of immovable property. If aspected by malefics — 


212 


blindness or weak eyesight. Ifin Aries sign —chest troubles. 
If with lord of 4" house and is also malefic or weak — suffering 
during old age, poverty. 


In female horoscope — sufferings to mother, heart trouble, 
sufferings to self, obstacles in progeny, devoid of happiness, 
inconsistency in thoughts, ingratitude, devoid of intelligence, 
no fame, does not have feelings to help others, company of 
wicked, playful, gastric problem, lazy, quarrelsome. 


Fifth House:- 


Delay in progeny, immature delivery, obstacles in progeny, 
whimsical, gains and loss of property, atheist, stomach troubles, 
fond of travelling, more number of female issues, lazy, devoid 
of knowledge/ sons/ wealth/ happiness, often in service, loss 
of brother at the age of 5, fear of fire at the age of 6, enemity 
with friend, not a handsome figure, not sexual. 


If aspected by Jupiter — more than one marriage, one wife 
does not have any son. If strong—in company with females. 
Ifaspected by Sun and Mars — number of chronic diseases. 
If debilitated — heart trouble, troubles in private parts, death 
either by drowning or by falling. If afflicted with malefics — 
neurological problems, poverty. Ifin Cancer sign—number of 
sons. Ifin own sign and Sun or Moon is in 11" house — very 
wealthy. Ifin Aquarius sign— progeny. 


In female horoscope — obstacles in education, technical 
education (electrical branch), more number of female issues, 
imposing personality, without norms, devoid of son, priggish, 
delay in progeny, impotent, company of wicked. 


213 


Sixth House:- 


Strong body, destroyer of enemies, fond of animals, pleasure 
seeker, throat and back problems, urinary problem, stones, 
diabetes, poet, opponent, asthmatic, head injury due to stone, 
danger from electricity, wealthy, always feels hungry, less 
number of sperms, pain in legs, benevolent, no penalty from 
state, obstacle in the happiness of sons of maternal uncle, 
fame. 


If with Mars — Raj yog, foreign travel. If debilitated — enmity 
with low caste people, destroyer of enemies. If exalted — 
successful in achieving aim. If debilitated or in enemy’s sign— 
destroyer of family. If debilitated or combust — fear of arms 
or poison, change of place of job, early death of parents, ill 
health of wife and children, loss or confinement through state. 
IfMoon and Jupiter are in kendras—very wealthy. Ifin Taurus, 
Leo or Scorpio sign — heart or throat troubles, urinary 
problems. If in Gemini, Virgo, Sagittarius or Pisces sign — 
T.B. or arthritis. If with Rahu/ Ketu — blessed with wealth, 
age more than 70 years if with ketu. 


In female horoscope — good health, no enemies, backache 
(definitely), devoid of knowledge and wisdom, plumpy body, 
head in the family and in females, number of sons, good dress 
and jewellery, beloved of husband, beloved of sons, husband 
may have more than one wife. 


Seventh House:- 


Permanently rich, worried with illness of spouse and sons, 
greedy, wicked, fond of travel, although does not like spouse 


214 


even then devoted to spouse, toothache, obstacles in marriage 
till the age of 30, two marriages, stones (definitely ifLagna is 
Scorpio), relations with characterless females, backache, 
destroyer of spouse or sufferings to spouse, gastric troubles, 
famous due to some special characteristic, foreign travel, enjoys 
all comforts, high status at the age of 36, high status because 
of directional strength, beautiful wife, good friends, defective 
walk, depends on others, loss in partnership. 


If with Mars — wife very sexual. If with Venus — sexual but 
spouse characterless. Ifin Gemini, Virgo, Sagittarius or Pisces 
sign —two marriages. If in Libra, Capricorn, and Aquarius or 
with benefics — wealth in marriage, devoted spouse, fortunate 
after marriage. Ifin own sign/ exalted/ Sagittarius sign —sexual. 
If in Pisces — death of spouse. 


In female horoscope — obstacles in marriage till the age of 27, 
two matriages, separation from husband, long life, husband is 
much older, characterless, politician, devoid of happiness, ill 
health, fond of wine, wicked friends, stones, enjoys the life, 
marriage with widower but prosperous. If aspected by 
malefics-late marriage. 


Eighth House:- 


Shrinking of heart, sinner, enemity with own people, plumpy 
body, lazy, foolish, cheat, fearful, generous, weak eyesight or 
eyes troubles, accident through vehicle, stomach troubles, Piles/ 
fistula, friends do not care, fear of death through a low caste 
person, suffers from chromic disease, blood ailments, loss of 
wealth, company of wicked, opposition without any valid 


215 


reason, fault finding, skin-disease, blood ailments, loss of 
wealth, company of wicked, boils, suffers in foreign country, 
serious, foolish son, long life, sufferings. 


If with Venus-adulterer, fond of travel, If with Mars-disease 
of private parts. If with Rahu-fear from fire/ poison/ stone/ 
wood/ arms. If with Rahu and Sun-pessimist, wealthy, wicked 
sons, asthama or T.B. If exalted/ own sign/ friend’s sign-long 
life. fin enemy’s sign especially in the sign of lord of Mars- 
short life. If debilitated/ enemy’s sign-short life. If debilitated 
or combust-fear from arms and poison. 


In female horoscope-injury, vehicle accident, eyes troubles 
or weak eye sight, long life, foreign travel, injury in upper part 
of hips, gyanic problems, obstacles in male progeny, suffers 
due to her own deeds, wicked, characterless. If Saturn is in 
own sign-barren. 


Ninth House:- 


Deligent, soft spoken, ascetic, devotee, knowledge of religions, 
becomes ascetic during the period of Saturn, destroyer of 
enemies, devoid of brothers, no interest in extra marital affairs, 
loss of fortune, sufferings to father at the age of 19 or 29, 
lucky at the age of 36, yogkarak during own dasha, sufferings 
due to friends, always eager for pilgrims, donor, simple living, 
no affection during old age, handsome, wealthy, number of 
ailments in body, step mother. 


If with benefics-foreign travels. Ifaspected by Sun and Mars- 
chronic diseases. If exalted/ own sign or aspected by Jupiter- 
revolution in religious thoughts. If debilitated-atheist, devoid 


216 


of wealth, spouse of questionable character. If in own sign- 
religious, static honour, father long lived. If exalted-wealthy, 


happy. 


In female horoscope — atheist, barren, lucky, devoid of 
happiness of brother, settles on foreign land, wicked, no 
respect for preceptor, ascetic. 


Tenth House;- 


Loss of parent during childhood, sinner due to being priggish, 
victorious, politician, judge, officer, wise, high expectations, 
stomach troubles, government service, responsible position, 
prosperity in business, fortunate at the age of 36, interest in 
astrology, gains in the business of machines and leather, fear 
of arms or enemies at the age of 26 and 54, harsh marital life 
or recluse, gradual progress in life, sudden prosperity not 
possible, no-inheritance, changes in profession, imprisonment, 
revolutionary at the age of 41 to 45. 

If exalted-Raj yog. If debilitated or in enemy’s sign-violent, 
disease of genital organs. If with Mars-diabetic. If with 


malefics-obstacles. Ifin Pisces sign-ascetic. Ifnot aspected 
by benefics-obstacles in education. 


In female horoscope-separation from father. If exalted/in own 
sign/ friendly sign-financial gains due to own efforts or by 
cheating. Company of wicked, no ideals, pleasure seeker, 
love for filthy literature. 


Eleventh House:- 


Death of parents during childhood, loss of wealth of father, 


217 


sudden and unexpected problems, money earned by self 
remains safe, brave, long lived, respect of preceptors, wise, 
suffers due to children, injury by stone, gains in property and 
factories, honour from state, more number of female issues, 
gains due to black coloured articles, prosperity after the age 
of 36, successful administrator, always wealthy, intelligent, 
victorious, good health, devoid of happiness of son, first child 
is dead, barren spouse, loss due to friends, cannot recover 
the money given on credit. 


Ifexalted/ in own sign-fortunate, wealthy, comfort of vehicle, 
greedy. If afflicted-wife barren or death of children. If in 
debilitated sign-fortunate, Raj yog. 


In female horoscope-gains from state, technical or engineering 
profession, good looking, company of good people, ailments 
of blood, gastric and cough ailments, thoughtless, always 
insulted, pleasure seeker, gains, long life. 


Twelfth House:- 


Shameless, small eyes, fond of foreign travel, neurological 
problems, harsh, does not spend, wicked, unreliable, left eye 
defective, devoid of happiness of progeny, cheat, 
handicapped, tooth problems, spouse suffers and loss of 
wealth at the age of 45, gradual progress in service, 
expenditure or speculation activities, follower of wicked 
people, fearful, recluse, secret enemies, injury from animals, 
imprisonment on false charges. 


If Saturn is lord of Lagna-destroyer of enemies, ascetic. If 
aspected by malefics-suffers from piles. If exalted-financial 


218 


gains due to cheating. If with Mars-imprisonment. If with 
malefics-loss in profession. If strong-public service, social 
service, religious. If aspected by Mars-no interest in worldly 
affairs. 


In female horoscope-eyes trouble, stomach trouble, foreign 
travel, imprisonment, bondage, away from home, pleasure 
seeker, does not use intelligence, ill health, extravagant, 
wicked, insulted, devoid of wealth, lazy, strange nature, blood 
ailments, gastric problems. 


RAHU 
First House:- 


Often ill, very talkative, injury in head, destroyer of enemies, 
victorious in arguments, selfish, neurological problems, eager 
in wicked deeds, uninterested in this world, short life, obstacles 
in marriage, dental problems, problem in the left eye, chronic 
ailment in upper part of body, cheats the relations, deceitful, 
tall, suffers bodily at the age of 5, 7, and 16, ingratitude, red 
eyes, powerful, expert in social work, black spot on face, 
devoid of happiness of spouse and son, injury in head with 
sharp edged weapon, fear of fire and poison. 

Ifin Aries, Taurus, or Cancer sign — protects from all problems. 
Ifin Taurus, Gemini, Cancer, Leo, Virgo, Scorpio, Capricom 
or Pisces sign—Raj yog. Ifin Aries, Taurus, Gemini, Virgo or 
Aquarius sign — long life. Ifin Aquarius sign — tall but with 
permanent disease. If with Saturn — deserts his spouse. 


In female horoscope - ugly, shameless, often ill, angry, playful, 


219 


reddish eyes, does not respect preceptors, wicked, 
handicapped, deserted. 


Second House:- 


Destroyer of family, opponent, harsh, fond of foreign travel, 
fear of death with weapons, destroyer of enemies, extravagant 
but accumulates own earned wealth, cannot keep anything 
secret about others, speaks words with double meaning, 
priggish, ailments of mother, does not refund other’s money, 
wealthy with state finances, spot on the face, jaundice, tamsik, 
contact with wicked, number of enemies, long nose, does not 
agree with friends, more than one marriage or sexual relations 
with other females, earns in foreign country, teeth out of shape, 
business of leather goods/ liquor/ meat. 


If debilitated-devoid of wealth but lucky on foreign land, 
speaks truth. Ifin Libra sign—yogkarak. If with benefic planets 
—mole on the chin. 


In female horoscope — thief, lives in others’ house, fond of 
wandering, always eager to have sexual relations, talkative, 
widow, poor, wicked husband, ill health, wealthy in foreign 
country. 


Third House:- 


Happiness of wealth-spouse-son, no sufferings, powerful, 
wrestler, wealthy, brave, ideal, death of brother, long life, 
comforts of servants, multimillionaire, throat, ear and teeth 
problems, behaves like his own brother with every body, 
honour from state. 


220 


Ifin Gemini, Leo, Virgo or Aquarius sign— glorious. If exalted 
—very wealthy, comforts of vehicle, number of servants. If 
debilitated —malefic for brother. If with benefic planet — mark 
on throat. 


In female horoscope—weak hands, devoid of brothers/ sisters, 
victorious, devoted husband and children, good health, 
destroyer of enemies, polite. 


Fourth House:- 


Sufferings to mother, devoid of wealth, cruel, separation from 
brothers, in company with mean people, stomach problems, 
does not talk much, heart trouble, fear of accident, short lived, 
back biter, no happiness from vehicle and property, extra 
marital relations, progress during the age of 35-53, sadness, 
lives away from home, foolish, no sympathy from others, fond 
of wandering, deceitful, lazy, step mother, more than one 
marriage, illegal progeny, diplomat or engineer. 

Ifin Aries, Gemini, Cancer, or Virgo — auspicious. If with 
malefics — sufferings to mother. If in Aries, Gemini, Cancer, 
Virgo, Scorpio or Capricorn — Raj yog karak. 

In female horoscope — company of number of males, 
influenced by other religions, devoid ofhappiness from brother, 
back biter, atheist husband, one issue, unhealthy, devoid of 
happiness of mother, ingratitude, affection with animals. 
Fifth House:- 


Male progeny, ill health of wife, destroyer of wealth and family, 
abortions, obstacles in education, often in service, stomach 


221 


problems, sufferings from son, weak teeth, sudden gains, heart 
problems, deep knowledge of some subjects, diplomat or 
engineer, delay in first issue, devoid of comforts and 
enjoyments, speaks though nose, loss of son due to curse of 
snake, second marriage. 


If with Moon loss of son is definite. If in Aries, Taurus or 
Cancer —benefic, progeny. 


In female horoscope — sexy, devoid of son, thick teeth, 
conduct similar to a prostitute, not liked by anybody, sufferings. 
If with Moon — devoid of son, deceitful, foolish. 


Sixth House:- 


Destroyer of enemies, wealthy, happiness from son, gains from 
people belonging to other religions, good tolerance power, 
potent, suffers from backache, ambitious, brave, Raj yog, 
injury of head from animals cart, maternal uncle suffers, long 
life, suffers from diseases of rectum, extra marital relations, 
contact with sinners, injury from wooden article or stone, 
somebody from maternal side dies on a foreign land, contact 
with foreigners, black spot on back, difficulties in service. 


Ifexalted-— destroys all malefic effects, always in contact with 
opposite sex, sinner, extra marital relations. If with Moon — 
sexual relations with very rich female, gains from opposite 
SEX. 


In female horoscope — destroyer of enemies and diseases, 
fame, wealth, intelligent, expert in good deeds, soft spoken, 
beloved of husband, highly educated. 


222 


Seventh House:- 


More than one marriage, disgraceful, pleasure seeker, loss in 
business, loss in partnership, fond of travelling, suffers from 
gastric problems, wicked, obstacles in marriage, loss of money 
due to females, problems in teeth, loss of sexual desire with 
spouse, wife suffers from gynecological problems, yogkarak 
in its own dasha, widower, loss of coborns, ugly wife, devoid 
of bed/ sexual comforts, relations with widow, health problems 
due to sexual relations with wicked females, wife elder than 
himself, loss of property. 


Ifin Aries, Gemini, Cancer, Virgo, Scorpio, or Capricorn — 
Raj yog karak. If aspected by Moon —number of marriages, 
fortunate. If with lagnesh — suffers from hydrocele. 


In female horoscope—ugly, devoid of husband, gynecological, 
problems, devoid of happiness from co — borns and in laws, 
ingratitude, widow, wicked, devoid of intelligence and 
comforts. 


Eighth House:- 


Sudden gains, hard hearted, hard working, gastric problems, 
separation from family, no inheritance, respect in society, 
honour from govt., very fortunate at least once in life, loss, 
genitals disease, death due to allegation of theft, devoid of 
spouse/ son/ wealth and education, healthy body, erotic, poor, 
suffers at the age of 4, short life, death due to wicked people, 
suffers from piles and hydrocele, deceitful, weak financial 
position, loss in business, suffers at the age of 32, 45, 50 and 
60, gains of property from some female or from near relations 


223 


(definite if exalted) 


If with benefic — fear of death at the age of 25. If with strong 
planets — fear of death at the age of 60. 


In female horoscope —suffers from various diseases, wicked, 
involved in thefts even ifrich, widow, insulted by others. 


Ninth House:- 


Does not maintain cordial relations with brothers, pilgrimage, 
kind hearted, gastric problems, settles on a foreign land, 
industrious, wicked, unsuccessful, unfortunate till the age of 
42, deceived by others, leader or head of community or city, 
no progeny, firm believer of goddess Durga, violent, does not 
leave any task uncompleted, sexual relations with a lower caste 
female, sexual, loss in business of import-export, gains in 
business in his own country. 


If exalted or in own sign — wealthy, happy, fame, atheist. Ifin 
Taurus sign — yog karak. 


In female horoscope — barren, faith and devotions in goddess 
Durga, interest in religion of others, fond of non- vegetarian 
food, fond of liquor, wanders unnecessarily, suffers through 
enemies and various ailments, without any fame. 


Tenth House:- 


Sinner, contact with wicked, licentious, pleasure seeker, 
handsome, sexual relations with beautiful females or with 
widow, talkative, quarrelsome, suffers at the age of 12, 
wealthy, destroyer of enemies, honour by government, few 
sons, sinner but famous, land lord, secretary/ minister/ 


224 


diplomat/ government officer, expert in business, comfort of 
vehicles, strong enemies but victorious over them, devoid of 
happiness of parents, spouse maintains ill health and is foolish, 
gastric problems, cannot have good sleep. 


Ifin Aries, Taurus, Gemini, Cancer, Leo or Virgo or Pisces, 
signs — auspicious. If with Moon — Raj yog, national flag is 
put on his house or vehicle. If Rahu is malefic — company of 
wicked. Ifin Taurus, Gemini, Virgo or Scorpio sign —authority, 
gains from foreign contacts or from foreign countries. IfRahu 
is weak and afflicted — pleasure seeker, bad habits, Raj yog 
karak in his dasha or sub — dasha. If in Scorpio sign — gains, 
honour by govt. destroyer of enemies. 


In female horoscope — good deeds, Raj yog. If with Moon— 
Raj yog, national flag on house or vehicle, very sexual, gets 
money of others, playful, devoid of happiness of parents, 
neglected by husband, opposition from co—borns, destroyer 
of enemies, can become saint. 


Eleventh House:- 


Gains from wicked, friendship with fools, happiness from sons, 
deligent, destroyer of malefic effects, alert, happiness from 
spouse, long- life, injury with stone, businessman, fortunate 
ona foreign land, very fortunate at the age of 45, successful 
after the age of 31, yogkarak in main and sub — period, deaf, 
no gains from speculation, haughty. 


In female horoscope-extremely beautiful, polite, beloved of 
her husband, very wealthy, comforts of vehicles, pleasing 
personality, comforts of servants, loyal son, always speaks 


225 


truth. 
Twelfth House:- 


Chest pain, unsuccessful, opposition from own people, 
friendship with wicked, unwise, extravagant, full of worries, 
sexual, settles on a foreign land, right eye defective, long life, 
loss due to theft, brings bad name for family, wicked, secret 
sins, loss of inherited wealth/ property, change of place or 
transfers. 


In female horoscope — devoid of wealth and religion, believes 
on what the others say, extravagant, devoid of comfort of 
husband, neglected by family, eye troubles. 


KETU 
First House:- 


Near relations suffer, fear from wicked, knowledge of many 
languages, gastric problems, ingratitude, backbiter, gains, dark 
colour, back pain, pain in stomach, sweating on palm, tells lie. 


Ifin Scorpio sign— wealthy, happy, hard working. Ifin Gemini 
sign — short life, poor. If Ketu is benefic or in Aquarius sign — 
gains, progeny. If in Cancer or Pisces sign — benefic. If in 
Capricorn or Aquarius sign—immovable property, progeny. 
If with lagn lord-— short life. If with Venus — always have an 
eye on females. 


In female horoscope — intelligent, successful in research, gets 
upset on being unsuccessful in any undertaking, angry, ill health, 
husband suffers, aspected by benefic or with benefics planets 
—happiness of son, gastric problems. 


226 


Second House:- 


Ailments of mouth, no inheritance, no respect, fond of fish, 
gains due to own efforts, sudden gains, suffers from jaundice, 
opponent, involved in financial scandals, fear of government, 
opposition from family and spouse, loss by wealth in its own 
dasha and sub — dasha, harsh, lack of education. 


Ifin Gemini, Virgo or Pisces sign—very happy. If in Sagittarius 
sign—more gains even with less efforts, fond of listening music. 
Ifin Aries, Taurus, Gemini, Virgo, or Scorpio signs—stomach 
ailments. If in its own sign or benefic— always happy, wealthy. 
If with Venus and Jupiter — prosperous. If in Leo, Virgo, 
Scorpio or Sagittarius signs —benefic, loss of wealth and father 
at the age of 12. 


In female horoscope — prosperity, away from place of birth, 
eye problems, opposition from family members, mouth 
ailments. Ifin Gemini or Virgo sign—all comforts. 


Third House:- 


Destroyer of enemies, wealth, comforts, fame, worries, 
devotee of ghosts, brave, playful, clever, no happiness from 
co — born, loss of one brother, arguments with other but 
victorious, deceived by some friends but no harm done, Ear, 
throat and teeth problems, yog — karak during main and sub 
— periods, pain in the arms, relations with enemy’s wife. 


If malefic — defame, quarrelsome, ear problems, deaf. Ifin 
Pisces sign — spiritual. Ifin Leo, Scorpio, Sagittarius, signs — 
prosperous. If with benefics — mark on throat. If in own sign 


227 


— great warrior. 


In female horoscope — settles on foreign land, weak hands, 
pain in the hands, fearful, confusion, restlessness, worries but 
brave, victorious over enemies, capable issues, happiness 
from younger brothers, loss of friends. 


Fourth House:- 


Devoid of happiness from parents, loss of inherited property, 
settles on a foreign land, gets nervous, weak heart, problems 
of blood pressure, worries, devoid of happiness from 
property/ brothers, stays in other’s house, leaves motherland, 
educated wife, fortunate wife, advice of wife on important 
matters very useful, mental tensions, inferiority complex, 
arguments with mother, suffers during old age. 


If exalted —helpful to brothers. Ifin Sagittarius sign—educated 
wife who is good advisor If exalted or in own sign—happiness 
from co — borns. If in Aries or Scorpio sign — problem of 
blood pressure. If in Leo sign — fear from poison (if Sun is 
with Ketu definitely takes poison) 


In female horoscope —sufferings to mother, ill health, devoid 
of happiness from mother, either mother is always ill or death 
of mother during childhood, sufferings during young age, loss 
of wealth of father, devoid of vehicle comfort, stays away 
from motherland. If in Sagittarius or Pisces sign — happiness 
from co—borns, If in Aries or Scorpio sign, problem of blood 
pressure. Ifin Leo sign — fear from poison. 


228 


Fifth House:- 


Sufferings from co—born, gastric problems, loss in illegal 
jobs, brave but slave, fond of wandering, good habits, stomach 
ailments, loss of son, dispute with sons, settles on a foreign 
land, more female issues, obstacles in education, fear from 
water, worries, eager, knowledge of mantra — tantra, 
inauspicious in its own period and sub — period. 


Ifin Aries or Cancer sign—more female issues. If in Gemini 
sign — falls from height. If with Moon — shivering problem. If 
with benefics — service, changes in the profession. 


In female horoscope — intelligent, less sons, sufferings to the 
co—borns, obstacles in education, sufferings to brother either 
due to injury from arms or gastric problems. If aspected by 
benefics — auspicious. 


Sixth House:- 


Defamed by maternal uncle, happiness from animals, narrow 
minded, quarrelsome, head injury due to animal vehicle, 
sufferings to maternal uncle, head of society, destroyer of 
enemies, brave, ailments of teeth and lips, famous due to higher 
education. 


If with Moon — relations with rich females, embezzlement of 
money. If with Mars — eager to do some daring work. If 
afflicted by malefics — wicked, deceitful. 


In female horoscope — destroyer of enemies, Raj yog, good 
health, owner of agricultural land, prosperous, does not have 
cordial relations with mother. 


229 


Seventh House:- 


Worries, loss of wealth, danger from water, sufferings from 
spouse and sons, difference of opinion with spouse, gambler, 
adulterer, insulted by others, relations with wicked females, 
intestinal disease, unsatisfied in marital life, settles on foreign 
land, wicked wife, dental problems, postponement of journeys, 
genital problems. 


If in Cancer or Scorpio sign — gains. If in Capricorn sign — 
wife suffering from ill health and is deceitful. 


In female horoscope — opposition from husband, widow, 
always desirous of making journeys, danger from enemies 
and ill health, sufferings to husband, mentally disturbed, loss 
in profession, danger from water, adulterer if Ketu in Scorpio 


sign. 
Eighth House:- 


Devoid of wealth, accident (vehicle), genital disease, piles, 
swelling, sexual, wicked, injury by arms, short lived, separation 
from own people, get deceived, loss of wealth, disliked by 
others, malefic at the age of 25, dental problems, danger of 
falling from vehicle, extra marital relations, financial gains 
through vehicles, signs of small pox on face, head injury, 
irritable, does not get any help from co — borns and near 
relations, harsh wife, chastity of wife is doubtful, always 
worried about finances. 


Ifin Aries, Virgo or Scorpio signs — financial gains, stomach 
problems, constipation. If in Gemini, Cancer — gains from 


230 


vehicles. If with benefics—malefic at the age of 25. If exalted 
or with strong planets — long life. If with Sun — gains from 
foreign country, financial gains. 


In female horoscope—injury in accident, injury in lower portion 
of back, deceitful, smuggler, gambler, speculator, sudden gain, 
problems of genital organs, sufferings to husband, piles 
(definite). Ifin Gemini, Taurus, Virgo signs— financial gains. 


Ninth House:- 


Fortunate financial gains from wicked, fear from brothers, loss 
of wealth, pleasure seeker, problems in arms, angry, malefic 
in its main and sub — periods. 


Ifin Gemini sign—having doubtful character. Ifin Sagittarius 
sign — fortunate, intelligent. If in Libra sign — number of 
marriages, death of wife at the time of delivery. If with benefics 
—high status in government. 


In female horoscope—theist, loving sons, no enemy or disease, 
gains from lower caste people, donor, sufferings from brothers, 
problems in arms. 


Tenth House:- 


Fortunate, always suffers, sufferings to father, injury due to 
fall from horse, ugly, Raj yog, leader, respect of preceptor, 
sufferings to wife, brave, piles, benefic after the age of 48, 
even praised by enemies, throat problem, extramarital 
relations, fear of theft, successful in business, irritable, no help 
from coborns and near relations, wife harsh and her chastity 
doubtful. 


231 


If in Aries, Taurus, Virgo or Scorpio signs — destroyer of 
enemies, malefic. Ifin Sagittarius sign—involved in social work. 
If with Moon — full Raj yog. 


In female horoscope — devoid of happiness from father, 
problems in profession. 


Eleventh House:- 


Auspicious from all points of view, fortunate, intelligent, good 
qualities, famous, unlucky children, stomach ailments, number 
of female issues, piles, successful in all ventures, having 
positions of authority, gains of finances and sons at the age of 
45, friends are notreliable, unsuccessful in service, injury from 
animals, journeys and travel, handsome, simpler and sweet 
voice, popular. 


If in Gemini sign — poor and ill health. If in Sagittarius sign — 
wealthy. [fin own sign or with benefic planets-multimillionaire. 


In female horoscope — prosperous, financial gains from 
deceiving others, fortunate, sweet in speech, beautiful, 
intelligent, stomach ailments. 


Twelfth House:- 


Enjoys like king, position of authority, famous, expenditure in 
good deeds, decision of court cases favourable, fear from 
poisonous substances, genital problems, eyes troubles, playful, 
uses spectacles, not praised by people, relations with other’s 
wife, always suffers from chronic disease, independent 
business, writer, loss from servants, ailments in portion below 
navel, devoid of happiness from matemal uncle, always winner 


232 


in debate, beautiful eyes, settles on foreign land, salvation, 
ascetic, benevolent. 

If with Venus or Moon — adulterer. If with Mercury or Jupiter 
— gains business, ascetic. 

In female horoscope — Raj yog, not extravagant, settles on 
foreign land. If with malefic or aspected by malefic planet- 
foreign travel definite, ailments of legs and eyes, sufferings to 
husband, genital problems. 


233 


9. RECTIFICATION OF BIRTH TIME 


When we talk about the rectification of birth time, we should 
first understand what do we mean by birth time. There are lot 
of misconceptions about the time that should be considered 
as the birth time. Different astrological texts have difference 
of opinion on birth time and some of the opinions mentioned 
in the various astrological texts about the moment of birth are 
as under:- 


(a) It is the time when head of the child comes out of the 
mother’s womb. 


(b) It is the time when newly born falls on the ground. 


(c) Itis the time when child has an independent existence i.e. 
when umbilical cord in cut. 


(d) Itis the time when child utters the first cry. 


The opinions from (a) to (c) given above do not appear to be 
convincing as we know about breech child, in almost all the 
cases now a days child never falls on the ground and there 
are still born children who do not cry unless they are slapped. 
The opinion at (c) above appears to be convincing as till 
umbilical cord is cut, child breathes through mother and is 
integral part of mother. However the moment of birth should 
be taken as the time when umbilical cord is cut and child takes 
first breath for all astrological purposes. (d) crying of the child 
indicates independent existence. 

Numbers of theories have been advanced by different 
astrologers regarding rectification of birth time. When powerful 
Lagna, Sun, Mars and Jupiter occupy odd signs or Navamas, 
there is a male birth. If Lagna and these planets occupy even 


234 


signs and Navamas, they give rise to female birth. AlsoifMoon, 
Mercury and Venus are in even signs, a female is born. 
However this theory cannot be applied universally and also 
there is confusion when some of these planets occupy odd 


signs and some even signs. 


Generally, the following theories can be adopted for checking 


the correctness of birth time:- 


1. Lagna and Navamsa both cannot be even in Male and 
odd for female. 


2. Dwadasamsa of Navamsa has to be odd for male and 
even for female. 


Division-9 


Div/Sign 0°00' 3°20' 6°40' 10°00' 13°20' 16°46' 20°00' 23°20' 26°40! 


3°20' 6°40' 


Aries 1 
Taurus 10 
Gemini 7 


Cancer 4 


Leo 1 
Virgo 10 
Libra 7 
Scorpio 4 


Sagittarius 1 
Capricorn 10 


Aquarius 7 


Pisces 4 


2 
11 


10°00'13°20' 16°46' 


20°00' 


23°20' 


26°40' 


30°00" 


235 


Division-12 


Div/Sign 0°0' 2°30' 5°0' 7°30' 10°0' 12°30' 15°0' 17°30' 20°0' 22°30'25°0'27°30' 
2°30'5°0' —7°30'10°0' 12°30'15°0' —:17°30'20°0' —22°30'25°0' 27°30'30°0' 


Aries 1 2 3. 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 
Taurus 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 1 
Gemini 3 4 de 6 % 8 9 10 11 12 #1 2 
Cancer 4 5 6 #7 8 9 10 11 12 #1 2 3 
Leo 5 6 7 8 9 10 1 ae 2 1 2 3 4 
Virgo 6 7 8 9 10 11 1:27 1 2 3 4 5 
Libra 7 8 9 10 11 12 1 2 3 4 5 6 
Scorpio 8 9 1011 12 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 
Sagittarus9 10 11 12 #1 2 3 4 b) 6 7 8 
Capricon 10 11 12 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 
Aquarius11 12 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 
Pisces 12 1 2 33 4 > 6 7 8 9 10 11 


3. From the time of sun—rise (LMT) to the given LMT of 
birth, note Ghati and Vighati that have elapsed. Convert 
this duration of time into Vighatis, multiply by 4 and divide 
by 9. The remainder counted from Aswini, Magha and 
Moola should give constellation at the time of birth. 


Example:- IfIshtkal is 10 Ghati and 25 Vighatis. This 
time in Vighatis, will be (10 x 60+25) =625 Vighatis, this 
multiplied by 4 and divided by 9 i.e. 625 x 4/9 =2500/9 
gives remainder as 7. Therefore birth constellation should 
either be Punarvasu, Visakha or Poorva — Bhadrapada. 


236 


4. Convert Isht kala into Vighatis, multiply it by 2, add 5 to 
the result if Lagna sign is movable, 10 if fixed and 15 if 
dual. Multiply result by 4 and divide by 9 and count the 
remainder from Aswini, Magha or Moola to get the birth 
constellation. 


5. Convert Isht kala into vighatis and divide by 225. Divide 
the remainder in group of 15, 30, 45, 60 and 75. The 
male and female birth will be as under:- 


Ifremainder is 0-15 Male birth 
fe 16-45 Female “ 
i 46 —90 Male ‘ 
. 91-150 Female = 
ss 151-225 Male = 


6. Multiply Isht kal into Vighatis by 3 and divide by 7. The 
remainder counted from Sunday in order of weak days must 
agree with day of birth. 


NADI RECTIFICATION 


We are aware that for any physiological, psychological and 
biological changes in the universe five elements responsible 
are — Prithvi (Earth), Jala (Water), Agni (light and heat), Vayu 
(Wind) and Akash (Ether). Any day these five elements follow 
one another in a regular sequence. The sex of a person is 
determined by the element ruling at the time of birth. 


Doe 


The five elements repeat after every 90 minutes on any day. 
Thus 16 such cyclical repetitions take place in one day. The 
duration of each element is fixed. The sequence and duration 
of elements is as under:- 


Prithvi (6 mnts.), Jal (12 mnts.), Agni (18 mnts.), Vayu (24 
mnts.), and Akash (30 mnts.) 


Out of these elements Jala and Vayu are feminine and others 
are masculine. 


The first element ruling on each week day, it’s duration and 
sex can be understood from the following table:- 


eekday Klement ruling at ord of element 
beginning of day Duration Sex 


Sunday Agni Sun 18minutes Male 


Monday _ Jal Moon 12 “ Female 
Tuesday Agni Mars 18 “ Male 
Wednesday Prithivi Mercury 6 “ Male 
Thursday Akash Jupiter 30 “ Male 
Friday Jal Venus i Female 
Saturday Vayu Satun 24 “ Female 


This Method is widely used for rectification of birth time and 
results obtained are quite accurate. However best results can 
be obtained if Prithvi and Vayu elements are considered as 
neutral i.e. there is possibility of both male and female birth 
during these elements. 


238 


10. SUB — PLANETS 


Subplanets are nonluminous. These are devoid of splendour. 
These subplanets are malefic is nature and cause affliction. 
They are not normally visible in the sky. However if they are 
visible, they are considered inauspicious and cause lot of 
damage. 


The main five subplanets are as under:- 
1. DHOOMA — - alsoknownas Pucchhal Tara. 


2. VYATIPATA  - falling of star from sky. 

3. PARIVESHA - Moves around Sun or Moon. 

4. CHAPA - Indradhanush which is visible after rains. 
5. UPKETU - also known as Dhoomketu 


The affliction of main planets with sub planets is not considered 
good and main planet in such circumstances starts giving malefic 
effects, e.g. if Sun is afflicted by any of the sub-planet, it may 
cause loss of sons. If ascendant is afflicted, it may give short 
life to native. Similarly if Moon is afflicted, it may cause mental 
afflictions. 


The longitude of above sub — planets are determined from the 
following formulae:- 


Sun’s Longitude + 133° 20’ (4 13° 20’)= Longitude of 
DHOOMA 
12 signs (360°) —long of DHOOMA = Long. of VYATIPATA 


Long of VYATIPATA + 6 signs(180°) = Long. of 
PARVESHA 


239 


12 SIGNS (360°) — Long’ of PARIVESHA = Long. of 
CHAPA 


Long of CHAPA + 16°40” = Long. of UPKETU 
Long of UPKETU + 30° = Long. of SUN 
Example:- 


Let sun’s longitude given is 6°5°40’. Find out longitude of all 
the sub — planets. 


Long of Sun 6s 5° 40’ 
(4) 48 13° 20° 
DHOOMA 10° 19° 0’ 
12° 0 0’ 
(-) 10° 19° 0° 
VYATIPATA 1s 1? 0’ 
a 6s 
PARIVESHA 7s 1° 0’ 
12° - - 
(-) 7s 11° 0° 
CHAPA 4s 19° 0’ 
te 16° 40’ 
UPKETU 58 a. 40’ 
4 1s 
SUN 6° a" 40’ 


Apart from above subplanets, some more subplanets are 
considered in Astrology. If we divide duration ofa day i.e. 


240 


from sunrise to sunset in 8 equal parts, first seven parts are 
ruled by planets, which are lords of weekdays. 8" part is 
without any lord. The first part is allotted to week day lord 
and other portions follow the order of week day lords. Similarly 
if duration of night is divided into 8 equal parts, the first portion 
is ruled by the planet ruling fifth day week lord counted from 
day in question. 8" part in the case is also without any lord. 


Out of the portion of various planets during day and night, the 
portions of Moon and Venus have been ignored and portions 
of remaining five planets are also considered as subplanets as 
under:- 


SUN’S Portion - KALA 

MAR’S "3 - MRITYU 
MERCURY’ $ * - ARDHPRAHAR 
JUPITER’ § es - YAMGHANTAKA 
SATURN’ S$ = - GULIKA or MANDI 


The above subplanets are considered as sons of main planets 
being lord of different signs as under:- 


KALA - sonofSun  - has Capricorn as own sign 
MRITYU - sonofMars - “ Scorpio “ 
ARDHAPRAHAR - sonofMercury- “ Gemini “ 
YAMGHANTAKA - sonof Jupiter - “ Sagittartus “ 
GULIKA - sonofSaturn - “ Aquarius “ 


Out of all the above subplanets, Gulika is the dreaded most in 
causing evil. About Gulika, it is said that if lord of the house 


241 


occupied by it be in Kendra or Trikona with reference to 
Lagna, it bestows upon the native plenty of riches and fame. 
Also this subplanet becomes practically powerless when either 
the lord of the day of birth or lord of Lagna is very strongly 
placed in the horoscope. 


The degree ascending at the time of start of above portion of 
planets will be the longitude of corresponding sub — planet at 
the given place. 


Portion Day/ Sun Mon Tues Wednes Thurs Fn Satur 


Sub-planet Night day day day day day day day 
Gulika Day 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 
Night 3 2 1 7 6 5 4 
Yamghantak Day 5 4 3 2 1 7 6 
Night 1 7 6 5 4 3 2 
Mritya Day 3 2 1 7 6 5 4 
Night 6 5 4 3 2 Lo t7 
Kala Day 1 7 6 =) 4 3 2 
Night 4 3 2 1 7 6 5 
Ardhaprahar Day 4 3 2 1 7 6 5 
Night 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 


PORTION OF DIFFERENT SUBPLANETS ON 
EACH WEAK DAY 


The result of Gulika in 12 house will be as under:- 

1**House_ : Cruel, ill health, foolish, immoral, arrogant, weak 
eye— sight. 

2™ House : Harsh in speech, devoid of wealth and family, 
unreliable, settles on foreign land. 

3 House : Does not maintain cordial relations with younger 


242 


4" House 


5" House 


6" House 


7" House 


8" House 


9" House 


10 House 


11" House: 


12 House: 


ones, separation from family and relatives, 
coward, frequent travel. 


: Devoid of vehicles, home and comforts, immoral, 


fluctuating mind, low mentality, can deceive 
anybody. 


: Mean mentality, problem in progeny, losses in 


speculations, stomach disorders. 


: Loss of enemies, scientific attitude, courageous, 


excellent progeny. 


: Ungrateful, loss of spouse, extra marital relations, 


spouse of bad character, quarrelsome. 


: Eye problems, short life, short stature, not a 


handsome face. 


: Loss of father, change of religion or caste, 


unlucky, no interest in religion. 


:Loss of prestige, problems in profession, miser, 
inimical to spouse. 


Handsome, famous, inimical to elder brothers/ 
sisters, many children. 


Devoid of enjoyments of life, extravagant, 
unnecessary expenditure, punishment from state. 


243 


11. PLANETARY COMBINATIONS OR 
YOGAS 


Yoga means combination but in common parlance yoga means 
a certain definite or special combination, which adds strength 
to the horoscope or removes the vitality from it. Human life 
falls under two categories — Yoga and Arishtas or fortunes 
and misfortunes. Yogas include success in every sphere of 
life. Arishtas or misfortunes include all sorts of miseries of life. 
A yoga is formed by more than one planet. For interpreting 
yogas, followings are required - 


1. The good and evil lords in a horoscope 
2. The inherent strengths of planets 

3. The residential strength of planets. 
ARISHTA YOGA : 


In Arishta yoga, longevity of nature is considered. Eighth house 
is considered as ‘AYUS STHANA’ or house of longevity 
whereas Saturn is considered as ‘Ayuskaraka’ or the 
significator of longevity. The third house is 8" from 8" and 
therefore it is believed that strong unaffiliated Saturn, 8" and 
3™ lords make a native long lived, Life span is governed by 
Moon in infancy, by Mars —Venus — Mercury in young age, 
by Jupiter in middle age and by Saturn in old age. 


244 


Long life :- 


(i) If Sun, Moon and Lagna are strong 

(ii) Benefics in 10° House 

(iit) | Malefics in Upachya houses 

(iv) | Mercury, Venus, Saturn, Sun or Jupiter in 8" House. 

(v) Benefics deposited in quadrants and trines. 

Medium Life : 

(i) Malefics occupying 2", 5", 8, and 11™ signs or in 
the 3" or 4" house. 

(it) A weak lord of Lagna, Jupiter in quadrant, the 5" or 
9" sign and a malefic in 6", 8", or 12" sign. 

(iii) = A benefic in quadrant, 5" or 9" sign, a strong Saturn 
or another malefic in 6" or 8" sign. 

(iv) — Ifbenefics and malefics together occupy 5" or 9" 
sign or quadrant. 

Short Life : 

(i) Moon is in 7", 8" or 12™ from Lagna with malefics 
without being aspected by benefics. 

(ii) Moon in the vicinity of Sun is in 6" house 

(ii) = Marsin 7", Rahu in 9", Saturn in 1*, Jupiter in 3", 
and Venus in 6". 

(iv) = Malefics in 2", 6", 8" and 12 houses. 


245 


YOGAS FOR LOW MORAL 


(i) If Mars, Saturn or Rahu is posited in 4" house and 
when this house and its lord are affilicted by other 
malefics. 


(ii) Moon or Sun posited in 5" house 


(iit) Lord of 10" house aspected by another malefic being 
posited in 4" house 


(iv) Venus and descending Moon in association with 
malefics and aspected by other malefics posited in 
4" house 


(v) Lord of 7" posited in 4" in combination with a malefic 
and aspected by a malefic. 


YOGAS FOR DEAFNESS 


i If Mercury is in 4" position from Saturn and lord of 
ry p 
6" house is in 6", 8", or 12" house. 


(ii) If birth is of night and Venus is 10" from Lagna and 


Mercury in 6" house. 

(ui) If Lord of 6" in 6" or 12" house and aspected by 
Satur 

YOGAS FOR DUMBNESS 

(i) IfMercury posited in Cancer, Scorpio or Pisces sign 
and Moon and Saturn being together aspect Mercury. 

(ii) Malefics in Scorpio or Pisces signs and Moon in the 


last degrees of any sign being aspected by malefics. 


246 


(itt) 


(iv) 


If combination as per (i) and (ii) exist but Moon is 
aspected by benefics, native starts speaking late. 


Malefics in 2™ house, lord of 2™ house is either 
combust or debilitated and aspected by malefics and 
Sun and Mercury are in Leo sign 


YOGAS FOR SPEECH DEFECTS 


(i) 
(tt) 


(itt) 


IfSun and Mercury are in Leo sign, native stammers. 
If Gemini or Virgo are in 6" house, Malefic is posited 
or aspecting 2"! house and Mercury is weak — speech 
of native is not clear. 


If Venus of 2™ house is in 3 Drekanna — native 
stammers. 


YOGAS FOR EYES TROUBLES 


(i) 


(tt) 


(itt) 


(iv) 


IfMoon is in 12" house, left eye will have problem. If 
Sun is in 12 house, both the eyes will have problem. 


If both Sun and Moon are in 12 house both the eyes 
will have trouble. However if aspected by benefics 
trouble will be in old age. 

Person will become blind if lord of 2 is associated 
with lord of 6", 8" or 12™ and occupies Lagna. If 
Lord of 2" associated with Moon and Venus occupies 
Lagna, night blindness is predicted. 

If lord of Lagna is in 2™ house and lord of 2"! in 1°, 
6" or 8" house and if Rahu or Ketu associated with 


247 


Sun occupies 2 or 12™ house, native will be born 
blind. 


(v) If Venus is together with Rahu, the native will have 
eye trouble. 

(vi) — IfLeo isin the Lagna, native will have eye defect 

(vii) If Aries is Lagna it may lead to cataract or night 
blindness. 

(viii) IfCancer is Lagna, eyes will be dull and unclear. 

YOGAS FOR WEALTH 

(i) Wealth is controlled by lords of 2"4, 4", 9" and 11° 
house and by Moon and Jupiter. If lords of 2"4, 4" 
and 9" houses are associated either in Lagna chart or 
in Navamsa chart and occupy 1*, 2™ or 11" house, 
they lead to acquisition of good wealth. 

(ii) The lord of 2™ combined with 9" and occupying 11" 
with Moon and Jupiter—native will be a millionaire. 

(iii) When 2™ house is vacant and aspected by Mercury 
—native becomes a wealthy person. 

(iv) | Mercury occupying the 2™ house and aspected by 
Moon — blesses the native with wealth in abundance. 

(v) If Jupiter as lord of 2" house is posited therein and is 
associated with Mars, native is considered as Kuber 
( Lord of wealth) 

(vi) The results of Sl. No (V) will be repeated if there is 


248 


an exchange of lords of 2"¢ and 11™ houses. 


YOGAS FOR SUDDEN GAINS THROUGH 
SPECULATION OR GAMBLING 


(i) 


(ti) 


(itt) 


(iv) 


Strong malefic in the 10" house from Lagna or Moon 
and aspected by a benefic gives much wealth through 
gambling or lottery. 

If Lords of 6" and 11" house are together and posited 
in 11" house, the native wins many times in gambling 
and lottery. 

If5" lord being Venus is in 11 with 6" lord, native 
wins huge money in horse racing. 


Person will gain through speculations iflord of 1 and 
5" are associated. 


YOGAS FOR CO-BORNS 


(i) 


(ti) 


(itt) 


(iv) 


If lord or significator of 3“ house is associated with a 
benefic or if lord of 3" house is a benefic or if 3" 
house is very strong, native will have brothers. 


If lord or significator of 3" house is in quadrant or 
trine or in exaltation, friend’s house or own sign, the 
native will have brothers. 


If Mercury is in 3™ house and lord of 3" is associated 
with Moon and significator of 3“ house is associated 
with Saturn, there will be an elder sister and a younger 
brother. 


If significator of 3“ house is associated with Rahu or 
if lord of 3" house is in debilitation, native will not 
have any younger brother. 


249 


(v) 


(vi) 


(vil) 


(viii) 


(ix) 


If lord of 3"! house and Mars are posited in 8" and 
are associated with a malefic, brothers will be born 
but will not remain alive. 


If 3" house is associated with a malefic and Lore of 
3 house conjoins a malefic, the native will have 
stepbrothers. 


If lord of 3" is in an even sign or Navamsa and if 
significator of 3™ house is in 3", the native will get a 
sister. 


If Mercury, Moon, Mars and Jupiter are posited in 
3" and 11" from Lagna and Lagna lord, native will 
have number of brothers but if Ketu is posited in such 
position native will have more sisters. 


If Sun is in 3" house native will not have elder brother 
and if Mars is there, native will not have younger 
brother. 


YOGAS FOR CONVEYANCE 


(i) 


(ti) 


(tit) 


(tv) 


250 


If Lord of 4" house is in 4" along with Mercury and 
aspected by benefic. 


If lord of 4, Moon and Lagna are posited in 
quadrants. 

If Mercury in exaltation is posited in quadrants or 
trines. 

If lords of 4" and 10" are strong and posited in 11" 
or are aspecting 4" house. 


YOGAS FOR PROGENY 


(i) If lord of Lagna is in 5" and lord of 5" is in Lagna and 
Jupiter is posited in quadrant or trine, native with have 
many children. 

(ii) If lord of 5" is in exaltation and lord of Lagna is 
associated with a benefic — native will have number 
of children. Similar results are predicted if benefic 
aspects or is associated with 5" house, the lord of 5 
or Jupiter. 

(iii) If Jupiter is strong and lord of Lagna is in 5" and lord 
of 5" is also strong, native will have number of children. 

(iv) If fifth house is occupied by Taurus, Cancer or Libra 
sign and Moon or Venus are either posited in or aspect 
fifth house, native will have number of children. 

(v) IfMoon, Mercury or Venus are posited in 11" house, 
number of daughters will be more. 

YOGAS FOR MARRIAGE 

1. TIMELY MARRIAGE :- 

(a) If, Moon, Rahu or Venus are in 7" house or lord of 
7 and 1‘ are associated. 

(b) If benefic planets are posited close to cusp of 1“ or 
7 house. 

(c) Ketu aspected by benefics in 7" house 

(d) Lord of 7" is aspected by Jupiter or Venus 


23 


2. 


(a) 


(b) 
(c) 


(d) 


(e) 


LATE MARRIAGE :- 


When Rahu — Ketu axis passes very close to Lagna, 
Venus or Moon 


Saturn, Sun or Mars are posited in 7" house 


Moon in 4""/10" house in case of a male and Sun in 
4" / 10" house in case of a female. 

When two or three malefic planets one posited in 1*/ 
2n¢ /5% / 7 / 8" /12™ house from Lagna, Moon or 
Venus. 

When Venus- Mercury, Venus — Saturn, Saturn — 
Moon combination are formed or Saturn is posited in 
7/8" houses from Venus. 


NO MARRIAGE $:- 


(a) 
(b) 


(c) 
(d) 


(e) 


252 


If Venus or lord of 7" is hemmed between Sun and 
Saturn 


Rahu or Ketu in 7" house and being aspected or 
conjoined with at least two malefics. 


Moon and Venus are in opposition to Mars and Saturn 


Mars or Saturn is posited in 7" house from Moon or 
Venus. 


2"4/ 4% /7 /12 houses and Venus are afflicted and 
devoid of benefic aspects. 


PANCH MAHA PURUSHA YOGAS 


(1) HAMSA YOGA: 

For this yoga Jupiter should be in quadrant which should be 
his own or exaltation sign. Native born in this yoga will be 
very powerful like a king. He will have marks of conch, lotus, 
fish and ankles on legs. He will have handsome body and will 
be immensely rich. He will be liked by others. He will be 
righteous in disposition and pure in mind. 


(2) BHADRA YOGA: 


For this yoga Mercury should be in quadrant which should be 
his own or exaltation sign. The native bor in this yoga is strong, 
having lion — like face, well developed chest, well proportioned 
limbs. He will help relatives and will have very long life. The 
native with such yoga is intelligent, learned, gifted with wealth. 


(3) RUCHAKYOGA: 


For this yoga Mars should be in quadrant which should be his 
own or exaltation sign. Native born in this yoga will have strong 
built, famous, well — versed in ancient lore, equal to king and 
conforming to traditions and customs. He will have ruddy 
complex, attractive body, charitable disposition, wealthy, long 
— lived and leader of an army. 


(4) MALAVYA YOGA: 


For this yoga Venus should be in quadrant which should be 
his own or exaltation sign. The native born in this yoga shall 
have strong physique and strong mind. He will be wealthy 


253 


and blessed with good wife and children. He will enjoy good 
conveyance, comforts and pleasures. He will be renowned 
and learned. 


(5) SASA YOGA: 


For this yoga Saturn should be in quadrant which should be 
his own or exaltation sign. The native born in this yoga shall 
command good servants and will be of questionable character. 
He will be head ofa village or town, will covet other’s riches 
and will be wicked in disposition. 


GAJA KESARI YOGA 


This yoga is formed when Jupiter is in quadrant from Moon. 
Native born in the yoga with have many relations, will be polite 
and generous and will be builder of village or town. He will be 
prosperous, renowned and will have reputation long lasting 
even after death. 


AMALA YOGA 


This yoga is formed when 10" from Moon or Lagna is 
occupied by a benefic planet. Native born in the yoga will 
achieve lasting fame and reputation. His character will be 
spotless and will lead a prosperous life. 


PARVATA YOGA 

According to Phaldeepika this yoga is formed when lord of 
Lagna is posited in quadrant or trine identical with his own 
sign, Mool—trikona sign or exaltation sign. According to Jatak 
Parjata this yoga is formed under following ways : 


254 


(a) Benefics in quadrant while 8" and 12" are free. 
(b) Lord of Lagna and 12" in mutual angles and aspected by 
friendly planets. 


Native born in the yoga shall be prosperous, wealthy, liberal, 
charitable, humorous and head of town or village. 


VASI YOGA 


This yoga is formed when planet other than Moon occupies 
12™ position from Sun. The native born in the yoga is happy, 
prosperous, liberal and favorite of govt. 


VESI YOGA 


This yoga is formed when planet other than Moon occupies 
2™ position from Sun. the native born in the yoga will be 
fortunate, happy, virtuous, famous and aristocratic. 
OBHAYA CHARI YOGA 

This yoga is formed when planets other than Moon are present 
on either side of Sun. the native born in this yoga shall be 
eloquent speaker having well proportioned limbs. He will be 
liked by others, prosperous and famous. 

SUNAPHA YOGA 

This yoga is formed when planet other than Sun is posited in 
2™ position from Moon. Native will be intelligent, wealthy, 
having self earned property. He will enjoy good reputation. 
ANAPHA YOGA 


This yoga is formed when a planet other than Sun is posited in 


255 


12" position from Moon. The Native will have well-formed 
organs, majestic appearance, polite, generous. He will be 
enjoying good reputation and will be successful in politics. 


DHURDHURA YOGA 


This yoga is formed when planets other then Sun are posited 
on either side of Moon. Native will be blessed with wealth 
and enjoy good conveyances. 


KEMADRUMA YOGA 


This yoga is formed when there are no planets on either side 
of moon. The native will be dirty, sorrowful, interested in 
unrighteous deeds, poor, dependent, rogue and swindler. 


KEMADRUMA BHANG YOGA 


This yoga is formed under following circumstances — 


(i) If Moon and Venus are in quadrant and aspected by 
Jupiter. 


(ii) Strong Moon is in exaltation or own sign. 


(iit) Moon being posited in Navamsa sign of his intimate friend 
is aspected by Jupiter. 


KAHALA YOGA 


This yoga is formed if lords of 4" and 9" houses are in 
quadrant from each other and lord of Lagna is strongly 
disposed. Native will be stubborn, daring, head of an 
organization. 


256 


SANKHA YOGA 


This yoga is formed if lords of 5" and 6" are in mutual quadrant 
and lord of Lagna is powerful. Native will be fond of pleasures, 
blessed with good wife and children, learned in sciences, 
doing good deeds and having long life. 


CHAMAR YOGA 


This yoga is formed when Lagna lord being in exaltation is 
posited in quadrant and aspected by Jupiter or benefics are 
posited in Lagna, 7, 9", and 10" houses. Native will be 
good orator, intelligent, successful in politics, and having long 
life. 


BHERI YOGA 


This yoga is formed if Venus, lord of Lagna and Jupiter are in 
mutual quadrant and lord of 9" house is powerfully disposed. 
Native will be long lived, enjoying good health, wealthy, happy 
in married life. 


MRIDANGA YOGA 


This yoga is formed if lord of Navamsa occupied by an exalted 
planet is posited in a trine or quadrant identical with friendly 
or exalted sign and lord of Lagna is strongly disposed. The 
native is respected by others, famous, attractive and commands 
influence. 


257 


SREENATHA YOGA 


This yoga is formed if exalted lord of 7" house occupies 10" 
and lord of 10" is with 9" lord. Native will be successful in 
politics, will have impressive personality and enjoy married 
life. 


SARDA YOGA 


This yoga is formed when Sun is in own sign, Mercury is in 
quadrant and 10" lord is in 5" house or Mars is in 11™ house 
and Mercury or Jupiter are posited in 9" from Moon. This 
yoga makes native very happy with wife and children and 
enjoys company of good friends. He is learned and gets favour 
from government. 


MATSYA YOGA 


This yoga is formed when Lagna and 9" are conjoined with 
malefics, 5" by both malefics and benefices and 4" and 8" 
by malefics. This makes native benevolent, polite, intelligent, 
educated, handsome, religious, famous and learned. 


KURMA YOGA 


This yoga is formed when benefics occupy 5", 6", and 7™ 
houses and then join their exaltation, own or friendly Navamsa 
or when benefics occupy 1, 3 and 11" houses identical 
with their exaltation, own or friendly signs. The native will be 
world famous, righteous, courageous, happy, helpful to others, 
leader with mild temperament. 


258 


KHARAG YOGA 


This yoga is formed when there is an exchange of 2™ and 9" 
lords and Lagna lord is posited in quadrant or trine. The native 
will be learned, happy, influential, virtuous, successful and 
prosperous. 


LAKSHMI YOGA 


This yoga is formed when Lagna lord is strong and lord of 9* 
occupies own or exaltation sign identical with quadrant or 
trine. The native will be wealthy, noble, learned, and handsome 
and will enjoy all comforts of life. 


KUSUMA YOGA 


If Jupiter is in Lagna, the Moon in 7" and the Sun is in 8 
from the Moon, Kusuma yoga is formed. The native will be a 
political leader or a senior bureaucrat and enjoys fame. The 
native is learned and prosperous. 


KALANIDHI YOGA 


This yoga is formed when Jupiter is conjoined or aspected by 
Mercury and Venus either in 2™ or in 5" fine and Jupiter must 
occupy own signs of Mercury or Venus. The native will be 
highly passionate, good-natured, respected by govt., enjoying 
comfort of conveyances, aristocrat and enjoys good health. 


SAMRAJYA YOGA 


This yoga is formed when if lord of 9", 10" or 2" house is 
either with Moon or in quadrant with Moon and lord of 11" 
house is Jupiter. The native will be prosperous, owner of village 
or town and honoured by govt. 


229 


SAKATA YOGA 

This yoga is formed when Moon is in 6", 8" or 12™ from 
Jupiter. The native will be unfortunate, suffers from miseries, 
stubborn and hated by relatives. 


CHAPA YOGA 

This yoga is formed when Lagna lord is exalted and there is 
exchange of lords of 4" and 10". The native with be wealthy, 
control the treasury and honoured by govt. 


ADHI YOGA 

This yoga is formed when all the benefics are posited in 6", 
7" and 8" from Moon. The native will be polite, trustworthy, 
affluent, healthy, and prosperous and enjoys happy and 
luxurious life. 


DURYOGA 

This yoga is formed when lord of 10" is posited in 6", 8" or 
12" house. Native will not derive the fruits ofhis effects, looked 
down by others, will be selfish and will have problems in 
profession. 


DARIDRA YOGA 

This yoga is formed when lord of 11 is in 6", 8", or 12" 
house. The native will be under huge debts, will remain poor 
and will suffer from auditory troubles. 


ANDHA YOGA 

This yoga is formed when Mercury and Moon are in 2™ house 
or lords of Lagna and 2™ join 2™ house with Sun. the native 
will have defective sight during night or may be born blind. 


260 


12. TRANSIT OF PLANETS 


The effects of transit of the planets through the various houses 
counted from sign occupied by the Moon at birth are as 
under:- 


TRANSIT OF SUN 

1* House :- 

Loss of house traits, prestige and position, suffers from fatigue, 
ill health like blood pressure, stomachache etc. Native feels 
irritated and has to undertake aimless journeys, separation 
from family, feelings of fear and anxiety, quarrels with friends 
and relations leading to mental tension. If Saturn Mars or Rahu 
are posited in first house at the time of birth, this transit of Sun 
is very inauspicious. 

2™ House: 


Loss of wealth, financial problem, deceived by others, 
becomes obstinate, quarrels, unhappiness, danger of loss in 
business, efforts are not fructified, expenditure is more than 
income, mental tension and eye problems, obstacles in every 
sphere of life. 

3" House :- 

Financial gains, promotion and position in profession, 
happiness all around, good health, success over enemies or 


opponents, friendship with people of high status, gain through 
children and friends, honour from government, efforts get fully 


261 


materialized, gain in social status. This is generally auspicious 
time to undertake new projects. 


4" House: 


Domestic unhappiness, ill health, quarrels, financial problem, 
fear of loss of prestige, impediments in marital life and sexual 
enjoyments, disputes regarding property, mental tensions 
leading to wrong decisions, difficulties in journeys, discomfort 
from conveyances. 


5 House : 


Ill health of spouse, self and children. Mental tensions, eyes 
troubles, enemies become powerful, loss of money, separation 
from family and relatives, problem from govt., wasteful 
expenditure, obstacles in all undertakings, unsuccessful. One 
should divert his attention in recreation and amusement to 
forget these malefic effects. 


6" House : 


Good health, success over enemies and opponents, happiness, 
financial gains, favour from superiors, mental peace, gain of 
position in profession, contacts with people of high status, 
honour from govt., efforts give desired results. 


7 House : 


Anxiety, ill health, stomach and anus ailments, urinary 
problems, financial loss, problem from govt., loss in business, 
health of spouse suffers, strained relations with spouse and 
business partners. Take decisions with advice of competent 
people and avoid unnecessary travel. 


262 


8" House : 


Fear, anxiety, ill health of selfand spouse, displeasure from 
superiors or govt., quarrel with friends, extravagant 
expenditure, company of wicked people, irritable nature, loss 
through opponents, difficulties in getting financial borrowings. 


9" House : 


Ill health of self, spouse and children, disturbance in mind, 
disharmony with elders, dishonour, unsuccessful, in various 
undertakings, separation from family and relatives, long 
journeys, transfer in service, involved in misdeeds. 


10" House : 


Success over enemies, success in all undertakings, good 
health, financial gains, association with persons of authority, 
promotion in service, profit in business, fame, gain in position, 
gain from friends, increase in reputation. 


11" House : 


Financial gains, new position, success in all undertakings, good 
health, own efforts bring success, gains from friends and 
relation, gain from father, domestic happiness, religious 
ceremonies and auspicious work, cooperation from other 
people, time for team work in all spheres. 

12" House : 

Financial loss, wasteful expenditure, mental worries, ill health, 
eyes troubles, problem from enemies and opponents, even 
friends behave like enemies, problem from govt, decision of 
litigation case not in favour, foreign travel. 


263 


TRANSIT OF MOON 

1“House : 

Confers good health, prosperity and financial gains, rise in 
fortune, enjoyment of good food, sexual enjoyments, bed room 
comforts, good clothes, meeting with friends, mental place, 
honour from public, increase in social status, success over 
opponents, starting of new venture in business. 

2™ House : 


Financial loss, obstacles, disputes, depression, loss of honour, 
wasteful expenditure, bad time to invest money. 

3 House : 

Success, monetary gains, happiness, friendship and association 
with opposite sex, victory over opponents, good time for 
education, examination and travel, gain from opposite sex and 
friends, expenditure on amusement and entertainment. 


4" House : 


Fear, anxiety, financial loss, domestic problems, health 
problems, suspicion. This is the best time to lie low, relax and 
avoid confrontation. 


5" House : 


Illness, sorrow, obstacles in all undertakings, indigestion, 
journeys, financial loss, loss of prestige, poverty, 
disappointments in love affairs. 


6" House : 


Financial gains, victory over enemies and opponents, good 
health, domestic happiness, objectives are fulfilled, contact 


264 


with good friends, mental peace. 

7" House : 

Financial gains, bed comforts, enjoyment of good food and 
clothings, gain of conveyance, pleasure trips, sexual 
enjoyments, success without any obstacles, gain in social 
prestige. 

8" House : 

Enemity, Untoward events, fear of financial loss, ill health, 
quarrels, anxiety, mental disturbance, obstacles in profession, 
financial problem. 

9" House : 

Fatigue, unexpected expenses, stomach disorders, mental 
disturbance, disturbance in sleep, obstacles in profession, 
laziness, weakness, loss of prestige. 

10" House : 


Achievement of desired objects, gain in status, success, 
happiness, domestic comforts, gain of gifts, success in 
professional pursuits, good opportunity for public relation 
work or sale of property, chances for gain in social prestige, 
forceful arguments. 

11" House : 

Meeting with influential friends, sexual enjoyment, happiness, 
financial gains, prosperity, good health, marriage, and good 
food. 

12" House : 


Dependence, laziness, jealousy, loss, expenditure, injury or 


265 


accident, misunderstanding with friends and relatives, 
disharmonies with people of opposite sex. 


TRANSIT OF MARS 
1**House : 


Feeling of dejection, obstacles, displeasure of superiors, 
increase in blood pressure, fear from fire, poison and arms, 
accident, wasteful expenditure, separation from family, 
revengeful nature, disharmony with spouse. 


2™ House: 


Harsh temperament, anxiety, increased expenditure, disputes, 
displeasure from govt., losses in business, loss from enemies, 
financial disturbance. 


34 House : 


Good health, happiness, financial gains, all round success, gain 
in position and status, honour from govt., authority, boldness, 
success in important ventures, increase of self confidence, 
pleasure from children and spouse. 


4" House : 

Family disputes, professional problems, domestic unhappiness, 
ill health, blood pressure, stomach ailments, skin problems, ill 
health of spouse, obstacles. 

5" House : 


Ill health of children, quarrels, enemity, financial loss, mental 
disturbances, arguments with superiors, failure in examination, 
fear, disharmony with own people, losses in speculation, 
accidents, physical weakness, losses through theft. 


266 


6" House : 


Happiness, victory over enemies and opponents, favourable 
results in litigation cases, financial gains, prosperity, favour 
from superiors, comforts, success in important undertakings, 
health problem such as infection. 

7" House : 

Disharmony between self and spouse, domestic unhappiness, 
indigestion, financial losses, mental agony, anxiety, disputes 
with friends and business partners, losses through partners. 
8" House : 

Fear, accident, sinful acts, financial losses, blood poisoning, 
mental worries, fatigue, anemia, wounds, health problems, 
disharmony with spouse, not a good time for financial 
borrowings. 

9" House : 

Humiliation, financial losses, physical weakness, troublesome 
journeys, mental anxiety, legal difficulties, ill health of co— 
born and children, disharmony with relations and friends. 
10" House : 

Financial losses, ill health, obstacles, professional problems, 
disrepute, fear from enemies and opponents, conflict with 
govt., and person in authority. Second half of this transit 
generally gives auspicious results. 

11" House : 


Financial gains, good health, gain of immovable property, 
happiness, enjoyments, birth of son, luxurious life, amusements, 


267 


success all round, domestic happiness. 
12" House : 


Troubles from secret enemies, loss of wealth, wasteful 
expenditure, quarrels, mental worries, eyes troubles, bilious 
complaints, dishonour, trouble through opposite sex. 


TRANSIT OF MERCURY 
1“ House: 


Increase of enemies and opponents, financial loss, unsteady 
mind, speech problems, fear of being confined, harsh speech, 
changes in ventures due to outside pressure or influences, 
obstacles, disharmony with own people, arguments, loss of 
property in litigation, short travels, contacts with low grade 
persons of opposite sex. 

2" House : 

Financial gains, reliable friends, success in undertakings but 
disgrace, scandals and blames, avoid financial or property 
deal during this period, misled by others, chances of litigation. 
3™ House : 

Meeting with friends, enjoyments, short distance travel, 
contacts with relatives and neighbors, favourable period for 
intellectual pursuits, Not a good time to relax, fear from 
opponents, disharmony and dispute with superiors, loss of 
money, humiliation, problem from govt., interest in religious 
activities. 

4" House : 


General prosperity, fulfillment of objectives, happiness, plans 


268 


are materialized, financial gains, domestic happiness, contacts 
with influential persons, settlement of family disputes, wasteful 
expenditure, increase in status, honour. 


5 House : 


Quarrels with spouse and children, mental unhappiness, 
financial loss, purposeless undertakings, dishonour, 
disharmony in domestic affairs, disturbance in education of 
students, liking for tamsik food. 


6" House : 


Popularity, prosperity, domestic happiness, victory over 
enemies, good relations with superiors and subordinates, 
excellent time for intellectual work, success in various 
undertakings, mental satisfaction. 

7" House : 

Separation from spouse, domestic worries, disharmony with 
other members of family, arguments and controversies, 
obstacles, quarrels, mental and physical ailments, not a good 
time for students and writers, avoid entering into new contracts 
and negotiation. 


8" House : 


Cheerfulness, steadiness, success over opponents, happiness, 
birth ofa son, good intellect and power, financial gains, good 
time for negotiating property deal, improvement in status. 


9" House : 


Good period for study of subjects relating to foreign places, 
law, philosophy or higher knowledge of any kind, good period 


269 


for travel, conversation and communication with others, 
obstacles, financial loss, enemity, disagreement with near 
relations. 


10" House: 


Allround success and happiness, good health, financial gains, 
other sources of income, professional success, enjoyment, 
mental peace, domestic happiness, victory over opponents, 
gainful communication with outside world. 


11" House : 


Happiness and prosperity, favours from others, harmony with 
own people, birth of child, increased communication and social 
interaction, financial gain, honour, feeling of satisfaction and 
achievement, intellectual exchange with friends. 


12" House: 


Troubles, fear of humiliation, disputes, misunderstanding with 
spouse, disgrace through enemies, heavy expenditure and loss 
of money, ill health, financial difficulties, unnecessary arguments 
and dispute with people, enemity, secretive and confidential. 


TRANSIT OF JUPITER 
1**House : 


Unfavourable circumstances, heavy expenditure, long 
journeys, increase in opponents, disharmony with family 
members, ill health, mental worries, transfers, lack of domestic 
happiness, unnecessary arguments with superiors, 
advancement towards spiritual side, chances of marriage. 


270 


2™ House : 

Financial gains, domestic happiness, acquiring luxurious items, 
defeat of opponents, marriage, birth of son, rise in status and 
position, increase in spiritual standard, comforts and pleasures 
at command of native, prosperity in business, mental peace, 
favour from govt, and superiors. 


3 House : 

Unfavourable circumstances, loss of position, separation from 
loved ones, fear. Obstacles in profession, ill health, financial 
loss, change of residence, failure in examinations, disrespect, 
increased contacts in immediate surroundings, gain through 
writing and communication, generous and tolerant. 


4" House : 

Losses, humiliation, domestic disharmony, false implications, 
accidents during travelling, ill health of mother, hindrance in 
profession, delay in promotion, legal disputes. 


5" House : 

Improvement of relations with others, pride from children and 
their development, increase in creative potential, financial gains, 
improvement in love and sexual relations, greater freedom of 
self expression, personal growth, royal favour, all round 
prosperity and success, defeat of enemies, gain of property, 
success, improvement in efficiency. 

6" House : 

Problems from enemies, domestic unhappiness, quarrels, loss 
of money, increased expenditure, fruitless undertakings, 
anxiety, dispute with near relations, ill health, sudden problems, 
losses in profession, irritation. 


271 


7 House: 


Favourable for marriage, partnership and contracts, gain 
through people, development of mental relations, decisions 
of civil suits in favour, auspicious undertakings, blessed with 
children, respect, happiness, good food. 


8" House : 


Fatigue, wearisome travelling, adversity, troubles, physical and 
mental problem, financial losses, accidents during journey, loss 
of fortune, wastage of time, problem in legal disputes. 


9" House : 

Prosperity, happiness, pleasure, enhancement in reputation, 
respect from others, domestic happiness, financial gains, 
increased income from immovable property, pilgrimage, 
spiritual progress, troubles from children, foreign travel. 

10" House : 

Progress in profession, recognition of work, travel, change in 
profession, ill health, problem from children. 

11" House : 

Promotion, prosperity, domestic happiness, birth of a child, 
financial gains, good health, gain of new position, purchase of 
luxurious item, fulfillment of desires, benefit from friends and 
elders, all round success. 

12" House : 

problems in profession, disturbance in mental peace, fear, 
litigation, tensions, journeys, separation from family, 
imprisonment, increased expenditure, ill health. 


272 


TRANSIT OF VENUS 

1* House : 

All kinds of enjoyments, pleasure, happiness, peaceful life, 
good food, relaxed mind, gain of new dresses, perfumes and 
articles of luxury, success in education, gain of new position 
and status, sexual relationship with opposite sex, comforts of 
marital life. 


2™ House : 

Financial and material gains, domestic happiness, prosperity, 
birth ofa child, good health, attractive personality, domestic 
comforts. 

3 House : 

Prosperity, happiness, gain of position, success, financial gains, 
increase in status, favour from friends and relatives, purchase 
of luxury goods, pleasure, good company. 

4" House : 

Financial gains, comforts, pleasure trips and good news, 
pleasant journeys, meeting with near relations and friends, 
professional gains, marriage, progeny, new conveyance. 

5" House : 

Happiness from elders and children, gain of position for 
children, financial gains, birth of a child, honour, fame, 
entertainment, favourable love relations, help from friends. 
6" House : 


Quarrels, losses, adversities, irritation, dishonour, illness of 
spouse, anxiety, increase of enemies, increased expenditure, 


273 


disputes, litigation, unfavourable period for romance, urinary 
problems. 

7" House : 

A favourable period for all relationships, love affairs, romance, 
in profession partnership will be gainful, financial gains, best 
period for improving a relationship. 

8" House : 

Financial gains through spouse, union with partner/ spouse/ 
beloved, good health, gain of property, pleasure through 
opposite sex, domestic bliss, fame, honour, prosperity. 

9" House : 

Prosperity, happiness, mental happiness, romance, comforts, 
marriage, long travel, gain in knowledge, fame, experience of 
beauty in art/ pleasure/ amusement, attraction towards a 
stranger. 

10" House : 

Quarrels, disputes, disgrace, obstacles, dishonour, 
impediments, irritation, humiliation, defeat in law suits, success 
in profession, help from friends. 


11" House : 

Financial gains, prosperity, happiness, gain of friends/ luxurious 
items/ mental happiness, association with opposite sex, 
domestic happiness, best period for team work. 


12" House: 


Alltypes of enjoyments, financial gains, increased expenditure, 
pleasure of bed, extra— marital sex, charitable activities, good 


274 


transit. 
TRANSIT OF SATURN 


1“House : 


Illness, financial losses, enemity, failures, increased 
responsibility, loss ofhealth of wife/ children/ near relations, 
disharmony, disagreements, disputes, increased expenditure, 
separation from family. 


2™ House : 

Financial loss, illness, sorrow, extra — efforts needed for 
keeping everything going on, loss of friend or near relation, 
eyes trouble, problems in profession, poverty, dispute over 
property in family. 

3 House : 

Success, recognition, prosperity, professional gains, defeat 
of enemies, happiness, power, position, enjoyments. 

4" House : 

Any problem in domestic affairs becomes critical, parent’s 
health my suffer, displeasure from superiors and bosses, 
disrepute, misery, unhappiness. 

5" House : 

Problem to children, difficulties in love affairs, confrontation, 


loss in speculative activities, false allegations, disrepute, 
litigation, financial losses, mental agony, separation from family. 


6" House : 


Allround prosperity, happiness, loss of enemies, good health, 


215 


recognition, promotion and gains in service, favour from 
friends and relations. 


7* House : 


Problems in marital life, ill health of spouse, long travels, 
separation from family, increased expenditure, ill health, 
venereal diseases. 


8" House : 


Problem in partnerships, conflict with others, death of near 
relatives, ill health, separation from loved ones, litigation, 
disrepute, displeasure from govt. 


9 House : 


Legal problems, long journeys, accident, decrease in income, 
transfer in service, sorrows, unhappiness, loss of brothers, 
finance problems, problem in profession. 


10" House: 


Loss of honour, financial losses, fall though own actions, 
prestige/job/ status many be threatened, scandals, increased 
expenditure, change of profession. 


11" House : 


Financial gains, improvement in status, fulfillment of desires, 
acquisition of property, domestic happiness, sexual enjoyment, 
honour from govt., cooperation from friends and relatives. 


12" House: 


Obstacles in profession, delay in promotion in service, 


276 


imprisonment, long journeys, danger, accidents, mental agony, 
increase in expenditure, financial losses, litigation, family 
disputes. 

TRANSIT OF RAHU 

1*House : 


Tendency to overwork, lack of self confidence, ill health 
because of infection, strained marital relations, loss in business, 
mental problems, abundant sex desire, involvement in adultery. 
2" House : 

Ill health, financial loss, eye trouble, mental worries, family 
tensions, unproductive expenditure, results of litigation cases 
unfavourable, chronic diseases, danger from weapon, 
influenced by wicked. 

3 House : 

Gains through relatives/ friends, success in education, good 
news from co-born, short journeys, lucky, new friendship, 
courage, success in profession. 

4" House : 

Gain of property of conveyance, problem in domestic life, 
gain from mother and lawsuits, ill health of mother, psychic 
problems and mental worries. 


5 House : 


Worries through children, loss in speculation, creative ability, 
delay in birth of child, up and down in profession, loss of 
luck. 


277 


6" House: 


Gain in profession, good health, financial gains, gain in 
popularity, boldness, practical, prosperity. 


7" House : 


Loss in partnership, domestic problems, separation from 
spouse, ill health, chronic disease, fond of opposite sex, 
passionate and sexy. 


8" House : 


Death or separation from spouse, short temperament, deserted 
by family, troubles, stomach, ailments, problems in genital 
organs, mental worries, fever, likely to be involved in 
corruption case. 


9 House : 


Long travels, spiritualism, faith in occult subjects, problem 
with enemies, involved in sex with low class people, family 
discord, loss in reputation. 


10" House: 


Gain through profession, recognition, award, popularity, 
advancement in social and professional life, gain through father, 
victory in elections. 


11" House : 


Development of new friendship, gain through elder brother, 
expansions of business, increase in income and also 


278 


expenditure, blessed with son, ear problem. 
12" House : 


Interest in occult subjects, involved in secret missions, victory 
owner enemies, financial losses, company of wicked, 
quarrelsome, loss of property. 


TRANSIT OF KETU 
1** House : 


Mental worries, all round difficulties, perturbed, marital 
discord, unsuccessful in profession. 


2™ House: 


Change of profession, financial problems, mental worries, 
delay in getting all expected, financial losses, harsh. 


3" House : 


Strained relations with co-borns, break in studies, problem 
with neighbor, short journeys. 


4 House: 


Problem in domestic harmony, mental disturbance, death of 
mother, change of residence, financial losses. 


5 House : 


Worries and loss through children, problem in romance, 
speculation loss, impatient, injury. 


279 


6" House: 


Change of working condition, ill health, displeasure, from 
superiors, financial loss, and humiliation. 


7" House: 


Mental discord, domestic unhappiness, problem in litigation 
cases, expenditure, separation from spouse. 


8" House: 


Inheritance, extra — marital sex, marital discord, disease of 
genital organs, difficulty in realizing debts. 


9 House: 


Loss during long travel, difficulties in studies, disrespect, 
arrogant, short tempered, unfortunate. 


10" House: 


Disappointments, change in profession, delays, troubles 
through father, injury by falling. 


11" House : 


Strained relations with elder brother or sister, marital discord, 
financial losses. 


12" House: 


Meditation, spiritual upliftment, secret missions, self-distrust, 
victory over enemies, health problems. 


280 


13. ELECTIONAL ASTROLOGY — MUHURTA 


Muhurta signifies the valuable moment when there is maximum 
harmony between human and stellar radiations. The horoscopy 
is diagnostic whereas Muhurta is preventive or prescriptive. 
Afflictions in birth chart can be minimized by selecting right 
Muhurta for important undertakings. Muhurta takes into 
consideration the importance of radical Moon as Moon 
signifies the mind. Therefore every election should be so timed 
as to have reference to birth star and birth Moon. 


For calculating correct Muhurta, Panchang has a special 
significance. Panchang means five limbs which are Tithi (Lunar 
day), Vara (weekday) Nakshtra (constellation), Yoga (Semi 
lunar day), and Karan (half a lunar day). The Tithi, Vara and 
Nakshtra have already been discussed in this book. 


Yoga is the period during which the joint motion in longitude 
of Sun and Moon amount to 13°20". There are 27 yogas 
namely Vishkambha, Priti, Ayushman, Saubhagya, Sobhana, 
Atiganda, Sukarman, Dhriti, Soola, Ganda, Vriddhi, Dhruva, 
Vyaghata, Harshana, Vajra, Siddhi, Vyatipata, Variyan, 
Parigha, Siva, Siddha, Sadhya, Subha, Sukla, Brahma, Indra 
and Vaidhriti. Karana is half a lunar day i.e. the time taken by 
Sun and Moon to make relative movement by 6°. There are 
11 karans namely (1) Bava (2) Balava (3) Kaulav (4) Taitile 
(5) Garija (6) Vanija (7) Visti (8) Sakuni (9) Chatuspada (10) 
Naga and (11) Kimstughna. 

In determining auspicious time for any particular undertaking, 
apart from the special planetary combinations, the factors to 
be considered are — (1) Tarabala or strength of Nakshtra (ii) 


281 


Chandrabala or lunar strength and (iii) Panchak or fire source 
energy. 


In the panchak determination, five sources of planetary, stellar 
and zodiacal energies are involved. Take the number of lunar 
day, number of week day, number of Nakshtra, the number 
of Lagna. Add these together and divide the total by 9. If the 
remainder is | it is Mrityu panchak which indicates danger, if 
itis 2 itis Agni panchak which indicates risk from fire, if it is 4 
itis Raja panchak which indicates bad results If it is 6 it is 
Chore panchak which indicates evil happenings and ifit is 8 it 
is Rog panchak which indicates bad health. The remainders 
0,3, 5, 7 are considered good. 


Panchanga Suddhi :- 


All the five elements i.e. Tithi, Vara, Nakshtra, Yoga, and 
Karana must be auspicious for finding out auspicious time. 
Panchang Suddhi, therefore means good lunar day — beneficial 
weekday, an auspicious constellation, a good yoga and a 
fertilizing Karana. 

Karthari Dosha :- 

Karthari means scissors. For selecting auspicious time, when 
two malefic planets are posited on either side of Lagna, the 
combination goes under the name of Karthari Dosha and the 
same should be avoided for any auspicious occasion. 


Siddha Yogas :- 


These relate to coinciding certain week days with certain 
Nakshtra and a certain lunar day. These are considered 


282 


auspicious for good work. 

A Friday coinciding with Nanda tithi (1,6,11 lunar days), 
Wednesday coinciding with Bhadra (2,7 and 12 lunar days), 
Tuesday coinciding with Jaya (3, 8, 13 lunar days), Saturdays 
coinciding with Rikta tithi (4, 9, 14 lunar days) and Thursdays 
falling on Poornatithi (5, 10, 15 lunar days) constitute Siddha 
yoga. 

Sunday to Saturdays respectively coinciding with Nakshtra 
Hasta, Sharvana, Aswini, Anuradha, Pusya, Revati and Rohini 
give rise to Amrit Siddha yoga. 

Adverse Yogas : 

The followings give rise to adverse yogas and such 
combinations should be avoided for any auspicious work. 


Week day Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday 
Saturday Sunday 

Tithi 6" ye gn gh 10" 
11° 58 

Nakshtra Mrigshira Aswini Anuradha Pushya  Revati 
Rohini Hasta 


Muhurta for Marriage :- 


The lunar month of Magha, Phalguna, Vaisakh and Jyestha 
are considered best. Kartik and Margsira are ordinary and 
rest are not considered auspicious. 


The 11" day (dark half) to New Moon, Rikta tithis, 6", 8" 
and 12" should be avoided for marriage. The best lunar days 
for marriage are 2"4, 3", 7 | 10" 11", and 13" (of bright 


half) 


283 


Monday, Wednesday, Thursday and Friday are considered 
best for marriage, Sunday and Saturday are considered 
ordinary while Tuesday should be avoided. 


The best Nakshtra for marriage are Rohini, Mrigshira, Magha, 
Uttar Phalguni, Uttar Bhadrapad and Revati. 

The yogas Vyatipata, Dhruva, Mritu, Ganda, Vajra, Soola, 
Vishkambha, Atiganda, Vyaghati and Parigha, are not 
considered good for marriage. 


Among the zodiacal signs Gemini, Virgo and Libra are 
considered best for marriage, Taurus, Cancer, Leo, Sagittarius 
and Aquarius are considered ordinary whereas others are 
considered inauspicious. 


Apart from above (a) 7" house should not have any planet 
(b) Mars should not be posited in 8", (c) Venus should not be 
in 6" (d) Lagna should not be hemmed between malefics and 
(e) Moon should not be afflicted. 


Muhurta for Undertaking Journey :- 


The best lunar days are 274, 3", 5%, 7", 10", 11", and 13". 
The 14" lunar day and full/ new Moon days should be avoided. 
Mrigsira, Aswini, Pushya, Puranvasu, Hasta, Shravana, 
Moola, Dhanishtha, and Revati are considered auspicious for 
undertaking journey. Generally 1‘ pada of Nakshtra should 
be avoided. 


Travel towards East on Saturday and Monday, towards South 
on Thursday, towards West on Sunday and Friday and 
towards North on Wednesday and Tuesday should be 
avoided. Aries, Taurus, Cancer, Leo, Libra and Sagittarius 
are considered favourable for starting a journey. If Jupiter or 


284 


Venus are placed in Lagna at the time of starting journey, the 
same should be considered auspicious. 


The following combinations are considered good for 
undertaking journey :- 


(i) Moon should be strong 
(it) Avoid the day when Sun enters new sign. 


(iii) Jupiter in Lagna and Moon in any other sign than 8" is 
considered strong. 


(iv) Mercury in 4", Jupiter in 2™ or 7" neutralize other adverse 
influences. 


(v) Jupiter in Lagna, malefics in upachaya and Venus in any 
house other than the 7" is considered ideal combination. 


Muhurta for Education : 


The most beneficial Nakshtra for commencing education are 
Mrigshira, Ardra, Punarvasu, Pushya, Hasta, Chitra, Swati, 
Sharvana, Dhanishtha & Shatbhisha. Rohini Uttar Phalguni, 
Uttarashadha, and Revati are considered neutral. Tuesday and 
Saturday should invariably be avoided. 1* (of dark Half), 2" 
37, 5 6 , 10 and 11 lunar days are considered 
auspicious. The 4", 8", 9", 14, New and full Moon should 
be avoided. The Lagna should not be a fixed sign, common 
signs are best and the movable signs are considered ordinary. 
Following are important yogas which are considered important 
for considering education :- 


(1) Saraswati Yoga :- 


(a) Wednesday coinciding with Hasta, the rising sign at the 
time being Gemini or Virgo with Sun, Moon and Mercury 


285 


occupying the amsa of Mercury. 

(b) Wednesday at sunrise when Mercury is in deep exaltation. 

(c) Wednesday when Mercury is in Lagna and occupies the 
3" quarter of Hasta. 

(d) Jupiter in exaltation in Lagna in days other than Saturday 
and Sunday. 

(2) Vidya Yoga :- 


(a) Friday when Pisces is rising and Venus occupies the 27" 
degree of same sign 

(b) Jupiter in exaltation and Cancer rising on Thursday 

Muhurta for House Building :- 

(a) Laying the foundation :- 

No house building should be commenced in the lunar month 

of Jyeshtha, Ashada, Bhadrapad, Aswini, Mrigshira, Pushya 

and Phalgun. The lunar month of Chaitra, Baisakh, Shravana, 

Kartika and Magha are considered best. No building work 

should be undertaken when Sun is in common signs. Rohini, 

Mrigshira, Chitra, Hasta, Jyeshtha, Uttarashadha, and 

Sharvana are considered best Nakshtra for laying the 

foundation. All odd lunar days except 9" are considered good, 

of the even lunar days 2", 6", and 10" are auspicious. 

Monday, Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday are considered 

best. Sunday should be avoided. 

(b) Entering a New House :- 


New houses should be entered when Sun is in Uttarayan and 


286 


when Jupiter and Venus are strongly disposed. The Lunar 
month of Baishakha, Jyeshtha, Magha and Phalguna are 
considered best while Kartika and Margshira are ordinary. 
The most auspicious lunar days are 1‘ of dark fortnight, 2", 
374, 5,7", 10" 11" and 13" of bright half. Rohini, Mrigshira, 
Uttarashadha, Chitra, UttarBhadrapad, are best Nakshtras. 
Monday, Wednesday, Thursday and Friday are considered 
auspicious, Lagna should be in fixed or common signs. 
Muhurta For Surgery :- 

Shukha Paksha should be chosen. Avoid full Moon and New 
Moon days. Avoid time when Moon is in the same sign as at 
birth Thursday and Saturday is recommended. Mars should 
be powerful and 8" house should be vacant. Mutual aspect 
between Mars and Saturn should be avoided. Ruling Nakshtra 
of Ardra, Jyeshtha, Ashlesha, or Moola coinciding with 4", 
9" or 14 lunar days are considered good. 

Muhurta for filing Law Suits :- 

Aswini, Rohini, Mrigshira, Uttar Phalguni, Hasta, Chitra, 
Anuradha, Dhanishtha, and Revati are considered auspicious. 
Tuesday and Saturdays should be avoided. The lords of Lagna 
and 6" House should be far apart. If Lagna or Navamsa is 
Aries, success in litigation is assured. 


287 


14. MATCHING OF HOROSCOPE 


The various factors to be considered in match making in order 
of importance are :- 


1. Longevity of partners. 2. Mental and psychological health. 
3. Factors showing separation or divorce. 
4. Compatibility of partners. 


The question of compatibility between partners will arise only 
if first 3 factors indicate that both are going to stay together. 
An approximate estimate of longevity of both the partners 
should be indispensable. What is needed is to examine the 
birth charts for premature death. If there is wide gap in 
longevity of two, then matching of other factors become 
redundant. The span of life is divided into 4 categories namely 
—(i) Balarishta (11) Alpayu (iii) Madhyayu (iv) Purnayu. The 
life span between 40 to 75 years is described as Madhyayu, 
where as longevity beyond 75 years is considered as Purnayu. 
There are standard combinations of planets, which give idea 
of longevity of'a person. Purnayu is indicated if benefics occupy 
kendras and Lagna lord is with benefics or aspected by 
Jupiter. Also when 3 planets in 8" house occupy exaltation, 
friendly and own sign respectively, long life is indicated. The 
same is the result when Saturn or 8" lord is conjoined with an 
exalted planet. The Lagna and Moon should be strong for 
long life. 

Mental and psychological health of the partner can also be 
examined by position of Lagna, Moon, sixth and eighth houses. 
The separation or divorce is also to be looked into by examining 
in detail 7", 8", and 9" houses. 7 houses is the house of 
marriage, 8" house rules ‘Mangalya’ i.e. strength of marital 
bond and 9" house rules ‘Sowhhagya’ or good fortune. The 
presence of 7" lord in 8" indicates chances of separation. 


288 


Mutual disposition of Mars and Venus plays a very important 
role in marriage. Venus is associated with spouse, material 
comforts, sex harmony, physical beauty etc, where as Mars 
abounds in energy, aggressiveness and in association with 
Venus gives a tendency to excess of sensual gratification. 
Venus-Mars disposition although an important factor for 
physical attraction but in the absence of Jupiter’s or even 
Saturn’s benign influence, real compatibility between partners 
may be lacking. Venus—Mars conjunction makes one fond of 
pleasure, demonstrative and adds a zest to one’s sensual life. 


Therefore after examining basic structure of horoscope of 
partners, it is ensured that long married life is indicated. When 
this assurance is indicated, question of compatibility of partners 
comes into picture which is examined by ‘Mangali Dosha’ 
and ‘Gana’ agreement. 


‘Mangali Dosha’ means harmful effects of Mars. Among the 
malefic planets, Mars has come to enjoy such an important 
role in breaking of marriages that the harmful influence of Mars 
has come to be known as ‘Mangali Dosha’ and boy or girl 
having defective influence of Mars in the horoscope is generally 
known as ‘Mangali’ boy or ‘Mangali’ girl. Why the Mars 
gets such an importance in the matter of marriage ? The 
interaction of Moon and Mars causes menstruation in a woman 
every month when the Moon is passing through 
Apachayasthana from ascendant. The Moon controls the fluid 
matter of a woman while Mars signifies the blood and 
combination of two is cause of menses. The process of progeny 
and pregnancy depends exclusively on menstruation cycle in 
females. Mars is lord of blood system in all human beings. 
Semen in males get formed through the process of blood 
system. Therefore progeny is not possible without blessing of 
Mars. Apart from this Mars is a fiery planet and rules warmth 
in human body, energy, strength, courage, bravery, organizing 
ability, feelings of brotherhood etc. Mars is also the lord of 


289 


skin, the outer dress of body. Influence of Mars alone can 
create another body and another life. Astrologers have 
determined the houses from where Mars adversely influences 
and affects the 7" house, which is concerned with marriage, 
the married life and relationship with spouse. If Mars is in 1, 
2m, 4h 7" 8" and 12™ house ina horoscope, native is said 
to suffer with ‘Mangali Dosha’. The Lagna represents body, 
the Moon represents the mind and Venus the sexual organs. 
Therefore houses are reckoned from Lagna, Moon and Venus. 
The dosha is considerably weak when it exists from Lagna, a 
little stronger from the Moon and still more powerful from 
Venus. ‘Mangali Dosha’ gets cancelled if it is there in 
horoscope of both the bride and bridegroom. The Mars in 
the 1* house indicates annoyance, anger, irritation and 
disturbed state of mind of self, in the 2" house presence of 
Mars may lead to financial breakdown, loss by cheating and 
violence between husband and wife. Presence of Mars in 4" 
house adversely affects the domestic atmosphere and in the 
7" house introduces element of fire between husband and 
wife. In 8 house Mars acts as ‘Marak’ for spouse and person 
is involved in extra — marital relations. In 12™ house, it may 
lead to wasteful expenditure, punishments, disturbance in the 
sleeping comforts, venereal diseases, extramarital sex etc. 
There are several combinations referred in astrological texts, 
which nullify harmful effects of Mars. 
There are total 36 Ganas and in the Gana agreement, 
compatibility of partners is examined from various points of 
view relevant to happy married life. The various aspects and 
points assigned to them are :- 
1. VARNA - 
2. VASYA - 
3. TARA 5 
4. YONI - 
5. MATCHING OF LORDS 

OF MOON - SIGNS - 


BWNR 


Nn 


290 


6. GANA 2 3% 
7. BHAKOOT (MATCHING 


OF MOON SINGS ) - 7 
NADI - 8 
VARNA. The Varnas as per Moon- signs are as under :- 
Varna__—~—~—~—~CSM Shriya vaishya shudra _Dbrahman_ 
oon aries aurus remini ancer 
Signs Leo Virgo Libra Scorpio 


Sagittarius Capricorn Aquarius Pisces 
Varna indicates capacity of native to shoulder responsibility 
of family. To run the family smoothly, it is considered necessary 
that Varna of boy is better than of that of girl. Depending on 
Varnas of boy and girl, points are assigned as under :- 


Varna of Boy 
VarnaofGirl Brahman Kshtriya Vaishya Shudra 
Brahman 1 0 0 0 
Kshtriya 1 1 0 0 
Vaishya i ; ; : 
Shudra 


If Varna of bay: is lower ‘fan that of girl then if lord of boy’s 
Moonsign is of better Varna, then marriage is considered 
compatible in respect of Varna. The Varnas of different planets 
are — 


JUP — VEN - BRAHMAN 
SUN— MARS - KSHTRIYA 
MER-MOON- -_ VAISHYA 
SATURN - SHUDRA 
VASYA :- 


This agreement is very important for mutual attraction between 
husband and wife. The Vasya are of following five types : 

1. CHATUSHPAD 2. MANAV ( DWIPAD) 

3. JALCHAR 4. VANCHAR 5.KEET 

The Vasyas of different signs are as under :- 

Aries — Chatushpad, Taurus — Chatushpad, Gemini— Manav 
(Dwipad), Cancer —Keet and Jalchar, Leo — Vanchar and 


291 


Chatushpad, Virgo— Manav, Libra— Manav, Scorpio — Keet, 
Sagittartus— Manav and Chatushpad, Capricorn—Chatushpad 
and Jalchar, Aquarius — Manav, Pisces — Jalchar. 


VASYA means capacity to control others. Depending upon 
nature and behaviour VASYAS have been classified in four 
categories namely — Vasya, Friend, Enemy, Bhakshya. If 
Vashyas of boy and girl are friends 2 points are given, ifone is 
Vasya and other Enemy | point, ifone is Vasya and other is 
Bhakshya 2 point and if they are mutual enemies or Bhakshya 
they do not get any point. The points given depending on 
Vasyas of boy and girl are as under :- 


Vasya of Boy 

Vasya 

ofGirl Chatushpad Manav Jalchar Vanchar Keet 
Chatushpad 2 % 1 % 1 
Manav % 2 0 0 0 
Jalchar 1 0 2 2 2 
Vanchar 2 0 2 2 0 
Keet 1 0 2 0 2 

TARA :- 


Taras are of 9 types namely Janm, Sampat, Vipat, Kshem, 
Pratyari, Sadhak, Vadha, Mitra, Atimitra. Out of these 9, 
Vipat, Pratyari and Vadha are considered inauspicious. Tara 
signifies likely problems in married life. Inauspicious Tara 
indicates differences in thinking of boy and girl. To find out 
Tara of boy count from Nakshtra of boy to Nakshtra of girl 
and divide the same by 9 and depending on remainder which 
may be 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 0, Tara is found in the same 
sequence as mentioned above. Similarly Tara of girl can be 
found out by counting Nakshtra of boy from girl. The points 
for Vasya are given as under:- 


292 


Tara of Tara of 


I 2 22, 3 
3 3 1% 
3. 3 1% 
141% 0 
3. 3 1% 
141% 0 
3. 3 1% 
141% 0 
32 33 1% 
3. 3 1% 
agha — Ra 


3 


1% 
1% 


3 1% 3. 3 
3 14% 3 3 


oola— Dog 


Bharani—Elephant P.Phalguni —- Mongoose Purvashdha — Monkey 


Gil Boy 

1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 

8 

9 

Svim - Horse 

Krittika - Goat 
Rohini—Snake 
Mrigsira— Snake 
Ardra— Dog 


Punarvasu — Cat 


Pushya — Ram 
Ashlesha - Cat 


Anuradha — 
Jyeshtha — Deer 


U. Phalguni - Camel 
Hasta—Ox 


Chitra—Tiger 


Swati—Bufallow 
Vishakha—Tiger 


Deer 


Uttarashadha — Cow 
Shravana — Monkey 


Dhanishtha— Female 

(Human) 

Shatbhisha — Horse 

Poorva Bhadrapad — 
Male(Human) 

U. Bhadrapad— Cow 

Revati— Elephant 


MATCHING OF LORDS OF MOON SIGNS :- 


The relationship between lords of Moon — signs of boy and 
girl is found out and points depending upon the relations of 
lord of Moon — signs are assigned as under : 


293 


If both are mutual friends - 5 
If one neutral and other friends - 4 
If one friend and other enemy - 1 
Mutual neutral xa 03 
If one neutral and other enemy - ve 
Mutual enemies - 0 
If both have same lord 5 
This can be represented as per following table: 


a 


Lord of Moon Lord of Moon Sun Moon Mars Mer — Jup Ven = Sat 
sign of Girl sign of Boy 


Sun 5 5 5 4 5 0 0 
Moon 5 5 4 1 4 %WeY% 
Mars 5 4 5 Y 5 3 Y, 
Mer 4 1 Va) Y, 5 4 
Jup 5 4 5 a) YW 3 
Ven 0 Y 3 5 YW 5 5 
Sat 0 Y yw 4 4 5 5 


GANA: 

The birth Nakshtra are classified under the three Ganas namely 

Divine (Deva), Demon (Rakshash) and Human (Manushya ). 

The classification is as under :- 

1. Divine (Deva) - Asvini, Mrigsira, Punarvasu, Pushya, 
Hasta, Swati, Anuradha, Shravana, Revati 

2. Demon (Rakshash) Krittika, Ashlesha, Magha, Chitra, 
Vishakha, Jyeshtha, Moola, Dhanishtha, Shatbhisha. 

3. Human (Manushya ) Bharani, Rohini, Ardra, Poorva 
Phalguni, Uttar Phalguni, Purvashdha, Uttarashadha, Uttar 
Bhadrapad. 

It is considered that a native would have nature in accordance 

with Gana. The nature indicated by different Ganas is — 

Divine (Deva) - Dignity and goodness 

Human (Manushya) - Combination of good and bad. 

Demon (Rakshash) - Contempt, meanness, selfishness 


294 


Marriage between boy and girl belonging to same Gana is 
considered best. The marriage between Human and Divine 
Gana is considered workable. Marriage between Human and 
Demon Gana is prohibited. Marriage between a boy belonging 
to Divine and Girl belonging to Demon Gana is prohibited. 
The Divine, Human and Demon Gana correspond to Satvik, 
Rajsik and Tansik nature. Points for Ganas are assigned as 
per following table - 


ana ol Gil GanaofBoy Divine Human lemon 
Divine 6 5 1 
Human 6 6 0 
Demon 0 0 6 


BHAKOOT (MATCHING OF MOON SIGNS) : 


Ifmoon sign of one is counted from other, there is possibility 
of following relationship between Moonsigns of boy and girl— 
1:7o0r7:7,2:12,3:11,4:10,5:9,and6:8 

The mutual relationship of 2 : 12, 5 : 9, and 6: 8 is not 
considered good for marriage. Out of these three relationships, 
6 : 8 relationship is considered the worst as it adversely affects 
the health and longevity of couple. It may also lead to divorce 
or suicide or murder of one by other. Maximum cases of 
suicide or murder after marriage belong to this category. Next 
bad relationship is 2 : 12 which adversely affects wealth, 
savings, spending, and mutual relationship in the family. The 5 
: 9 relationship adversely affects the fortune, faith, religious 
activity, progeny and ancestral inheritance. Except in these 
relationships, 7 points are assigned. Even if relationships of 6 
:8,2:12,5: 9 exists, 4 points are assigned if lords of 
both the signs are mutual friends. 


NADI : 
There are three Nadis under which all the Nakshtra have been 


295 


divided. viz. 


ADYA NADI- Asvini, Ardra, Punarvasu, Uttar Phalguni, 
Hasta, Jyeshtha, Moola, Shatbhisha, Poorva Bhadrapad. 
MADHYA NADI - Bharani, Mrigsira, Pushya, Poorva 
Phalguni, Chitra, Anuradha, Purvashdha, Dhanishtha, Uttar 
Bhadrapad. 

ANTYA NADI - Krittika, Rohini, Ashlesha, Magha, Swati, 
Visakha, Uttarashadha, Shravana, Revati 

If boy and girl both belong to same Nadi, it is considered 
“Nadi Dosha’ and marriage in such case is not recommended. 
Nadi Dosha adversely affects the compatibility and health of 
married couple. Nadi means pulse or nerve. It indicates 
physiological and hereditary factors. 

In following two circumstances, Nadi Dosha gets cancelled— 


1. When Nakshtra of boys and girl is same but Pada of 
Nakshtra is different. 


2. When Rashi of both boy and girl is same but they have 
different Nakshtra. 


ADYA 0 8 8 
MADHYA 8 0 8 
ANTYA 8 8 0 


296 


