a wagner fae WAT et 


fer FUUL 


(saftey, Wet aM fe-ci srqare uted) 
UT 2 
Ayah 
STH HUT SAAT 


SIDDHANTA-DARPANA 


(1899 A.D.) 


English Translation with Mathematical 
Explainations and Notes 


Vol. I 


Arun Kumar Upadhyay, IPS ' 
M.Sc., AIFC 


x Rrard att a war 8 svar 
S 1 See Taaqeaa wt RE aia THF 
aM Safes it a dae 2 wa 
frenfed wat ar Aare | are: UH a 
I Wet 8 ai ei Sgt a as 
BT 1 aU NA Fe @ fs Sa ATH 
sax WHR aH X aafy aah 
TOTS St ATM ae a BW say 
ame a fat TATa al ah 
Se WR id A Tea TH ashes 
fan 2 ae ypaa 8 anyfre fora 
BAAN | 
fe arene an eva freer 
cdo sfemn fatty & sega erat 
4 & ar ay ae oa SPRAY 
MTA: BIg Tel GTM & 1 TSA ah za 
BAS Set ais Tele i fed arqare a 
Seal rer sera yet ao | eT 
FT A, PAE) TAT ETH AT TT 
4 Sa TI aM | ga AH 
aT Tz Wa Si stra Yar at A 
Sel § Fat Srafas SUT ge 
wa A Sak f ast aradia & et 
meme a fa Te 
& are are ea 2 


q, ATA - HE HANK SUA, fr 
of TANG TUNA sea Ara staat 
SraMtaft Bch (AAT aI TA 2G 04 H) wt 
FE TAT | 

2. HA - 30/3R-C-4Q42 ENA 
aq ate anfafa stats famt ad 
2oo® Ways Hew, TA SM - 
SATE, FRAT TAIL (FTE) ART IY” 3K’ 
BM SMALE CX" v2’ YI 

3. Fram - 2902 4 tad Sa 
WATAI (AA) FTE H aHeM & G frets 
faa AY | 

29G3 S RWEe Th sed faa 
feet a4 Sto (far THs) Tecra fae F | 
za way f caer! ot a 
iat fae dee favefaaraa a vam 
afte Aer atten t fl ERI Weha siz 
waHfea ar feeroy | 

qeal favafaniaa at anfrardt 
uadifa & ae aifos faa HET 
ATM, 14: BQox FH aeda a4 Gal, FATT 
aad d dine, W AETa Fi fra sit 
aa | 
7 egise HUMS Ufa aa, Tra 
dad # yam g9ce A yareal faa 
Ha Ae ae Ord Hy ae Wed Te 
feyataarea a alta CHAT Wien 
ate att aah eentya | 

YM. WI al Wo aay AAT 
riftra 3 saad we A der ope fear 
A HAA | RARR HAE 
Tl ed GA fast et AHA 
aanfae Sansa | ta WATT A A 
G tafe a Sif yoafert at A 
Jon frat se Tse Ai THM SMA 
a firch, fara aryel gan a ft & eo 
Hae amen faa wa | ata: Tat 

| 


frat 


seya-waas Sl Ae ara Heres | gash far set site areata 
WA A HS AS SET A AHA S | fA A aT Saat Tal MAHA 
qa @ went aa: Ta WHET svar FI 

anda shea at fae ae @ fe adr tatpa sfeera fark 
aca fatifirat gra ferar war ¢ fart frost UH ae ad & UES 
SUVs A I Ue GA aa AMT | Aa: STA GMT Beg weds 
apa al anen fat & aa ara a fears at airfare at | sa 
Giarart 4 ae vac gan fH Fe Ge ante Fira aT shee AAT SI SA 
2, Sid: Saal areas SY Tel GIS SM BT | Stat Hat Wael AMT 
aM Ba: SAH Saas HI area HA Shas a | Hera: Na A Gate Gas 
SY GHA A WA: Goo Ae Tee set ate fae aa GH F | FA TSR WE 
SIA HA I HE it Fens et et Vt Baa | 

wea wa ae @ fe teria wtf ase weferqa A rar et 
faa are @ sfaere Car areey gan RK Feria a ‘afaatan’ st 
Mt fearfa & @ ag feech atk na & da apn fant ar ws aM aT 
MTT TAH WNT) | ta: FAT Het AA al wet wy shaera. feat 
al Ser eat 8 ae Sra Wa ITT ATE 

We Fe sf arat ot fara gon shina gfareraan F Fe Ger aH ez, 
fame At BH BAG TTT BH Sif Aa BH S 1 SAB SETA ar a a 
arad fan feat Tog warts Bt 74, Al Sa Tas 3 sy aah 
feat qdadt con a wens ag at aire st 1 Ww Far H amare 
fa fret af caren at eet at get aa eit ae st wart grew a 
a fFratfta dt aaa s |W Yooo ad ah BM Hever H faa aca 
HER Ht SETS Tel TSt | TE aeret aa aa ara Vaz TT yaa & 
BS SAT a AR Al Br Sra ZW sfoeraant a va z fH 
ata 8 chit F aya afters & ySsat at aif agra at Sifsrar a 

fase od at aeard afer wag Ff frat weit ¢ 1 afer es a 
Tee Tt wear fark we feta gra ahaa Ht eR S 1 ate: seta gfreTa 
cht Teast a GAT aA & fae ae wed 2 fs Bier sre BH Tor 
Wail ag, 4 fH 38 fa was Heats Het ae | Ae Feats st aera 
fata ara a fereht ara a afta ean a acne t Tales waters Hew 


ii fagre efor 
Jooo-Akoo Fat A RNa ae Aaa S | A saa ada Shay st 

Sat FI AAs HALAS z | 

fara adn aalt ? aa F aredag 8 Safes a see Aen aT 
2 1 FRUa: Pers 8 val were fag whey sera & oe a TH 
2 | Sifas Te Bera Gate 2 | fara aeaferea MH lB Sta: TT 
aly Gl Fa Ged Wa Gad 2 1 ta ada qn Ff haa sata at 
Wan Wen Aa’ s sae Gra ax WH 3 sa va ad aT faa & 
aad 32 ait at Teg ae St Tae 8 A athe’ aver & faa 
Jame sees ot wel sa area 8 aes ws srard Y 1 Sa HAM 
TE aT Sa o, frat ada erat Sorat Gerad WIG 2 
‘aie’ Fame 1 SIT ait At et aa Her sar z Gl Sat 
Fame @ 1 BUT ote F Serene, Tecate onfe awe ata wR ards 3 
agi & dfad wa SF Fact BRT Va & fad gawd F ferar 2 i ae 
SHA A HF Bt says Tas; foray Vanfeast ten afera faeeii 
% faa Veal HT Bene S | TATA eae foray B- 

amt vefeag Pref cert, 
BOR waft ATT 

aalq ards par F aifara gr Hee et FAH Te aera HAa 
aan ea ante welt 3 Ee afera arr Fi St fora é i fared A ae Ae 
aaa fas We afd A aaah Weil a Sa aT | 

Fa aaa F era He TSA STA S| SAH TST TET 
at ae ata TH Be Safa WeaH ar Mewes 8 aM farnfed at aT 
MUTA | Ha: Us et eT USA S Bal wal H ISA HT a ePT 
SOUT O14 Fa 8 Pe ga Sas APS Sra AIT Bet Us HTS 
at area val at # sad Aelea at fafa gare S| vas afatta 
aR Nea Sea SH a ete are ae Baar A rere afore VTA 


ai 

Anda Wan & aforaal A PRS ae ares TM fra FI 
afar AAT aT ea et frees FT arate ators der sia a At 
sea fern oT i PRR SAG saa Yl Hee H THR ATT 
SK UA A Se reales fora Sree Ve SHAT sar aH fee fess geet 
ad faa sar a2 i media waifaa A gah et aa ei Jet fe gitar 
Sy HAO sa Ara’ He AMS | Waa Wa Tse ‘fea’ aR 


fir iii 
gue vat ach feet S| eat Sra a Tet Tet oT SH Ta TI TAT 
968% 6.4 aa fara Ta eA A, Sirs Sahay H Ml a | SAT 
us we of afe at ara a & wa ware ae aa ae fee F 
aera bet 8, at Us Ha Veh 3 | ea sear fatearwa wer sar 
2 | FHT SAT A830 F finer wa wanes & hes ar Vat wen, faras 
aren exael Gal Ht Ha TT ana | | TANS Bes aT BF ait hes 
Oy AGA AT &, Aa Bt aretieRe FA ANA Ha ATA S| Ae UH TAHT 
a fe ware A sa wg & Tea See a Bl aves fear 2 | Sra 
qa oh ae oT fs af aot we TT Her Te WAT aA e a aS aE 
TPR FT TS AAT A STAT BTM SH ST BAT TTT SAT ae VlaT (SAT 
ue tt feen gat @ cheer 8) | ga Si oeat aT Sa atsit sit gra eT 
@ | Td SRM A Ted ATER oh as we fea 8 ai ae ze 
é faa aire ater ead ead s el a fe hs ART TOT 
aa © fark afore far F aceten etal 2K gat aH eR aA a ot 
TOT A ary Sara Tet ret eA 

fect arqare aT fegra ctu sfsar fates depa vera 
Faas SR al as aS a oa: as sel Te | Seta 
H aft ea arent arel Se za a | fest ayaa B yaa sre sea 
SOT | ea aT ON, Sa TEAL SU Ge PANT A Fa TI 
aT | Sat & Grr M, AT ax Va at BAS eft A A ot HZ 
Rahs sree SafeTa ye Fa TH Sl ah S Stal ara et STAT 
WS | rH Tae Mla wract H af ater fee F | 

amerires careat- ada attra Geet Sr sida HF aT tere 1 ata: 
FAH GA VS F aia ate gen saregfrn ators gre sas Bat HT ATT 
feat arom | we ¢ fe feet andra faafrarea F angie afira 
SAAT HL TGTS TAT Se TAS AAT ITTY o Test A arreface lira STM 
Re anda safes ar are fora ters St ora Tor et ya es | a Af 
TH Tora TET BIT HS ait aks VU Tha z | 

Ae srrary & ores e fee Sather fren % ford sree Ta 
TH WTS ea S Yo at ter eared @ fe sfrerean ade are 
ae ae TAH 

SEM HAN STAT 
23.8.94 
Tera 


trfora fama yree 


9. aT et ree 


(8) 
(2) 


(9) 
(0) 
(88) 
(22) 


(23) 


2. Fela 
(%) 
(2) 
(3) 


HY, BST H Oe Fara aT AAT AR, BATS, TTL 
Sarahad SH, frat a sireay, st] Stal-sifraa 
3-3 
aa- wafad, Waa, Ba 
ae-atet 
He - GSA, WaT SAU SIet -adaer, Galera 
far (hepa ar sits, fers, fara, farcry, ferccan, ferta, fererd, 
frre, ay, Fem, den, wis, wifes, feria, wera 
sfarey, sfarara, afarcar-a, wary, fafaferrd sar | 
fa - (qeq)-3744, safag, Sedat, ST 
GT (SA STA, ate, Shad, EA, Sa, Sar 
fous (fear)-fatted, afer 
3 (sitet, Sa, frat at fran - ATE 
fers firey, siren fafa, afar 
qq (aon) ee, farade, af 
F (US BET, SSA A franz, ala, aaa, Aaa 

fratea, 2 , art, ahafrtear, 
neue ary, a Ae asa faratsg, 
BAT weg - sites, arqan (fae ar fate) wala, aeT 
(arn), er (TN, ea At) | 


Fe (HAA, BSA) SATA 
3 (BISA BT) 
SA (BA BAN Sa, BABY 


attra feat Bez Vv 


(8) (BISA) 

(4) fa (as aA, ea ep aa 

(@) We(S+ 35 a 

(0) fa (en Go} as, ATaaes, sada, sada 

() PA (GSN BFA, MA, AEA 

(9) FiCeaat- aera, sree, arate, aay, sea arated, 
ATT 

(20) We (Fron frofaa, fare, wfoa, wafer, wifes, seta 

(22) ys (sits) fran, feats 

(22 Te (Brsa-zea farted 

(23) 3 (Great faa, faarary 

(¢%) ga (aret ae) afsra, frafsra 7 

(24) fary Carat Tea stafirs, arasra, fafers, faferera, fai, 
fastanr, fasifira, fasrera, fare, fareva, ste aaa 

(38) BTC, are Ben)- shee, vitaiey, wfeagpe, sfargieag, 
saves, fagys, faxiterete, faeteard, fasten, ysH, Us, 


Ws Ws, Waals, yeahs, weer, Wea, wifaa, wey, 
Mer, Wasa, Weald, Wen wes, wea vez, 


Wyle, WAS 
(99) fRen_ stern aa) afafirs, fafere, faery, fascifia 
(Q¢) BI (Ser, Be ee) aes, fads, fees, eh 
(2%) BACHR eN- Ba 
(20) SAT Wez-3 (9), SIAR 
3. TUT - 
(3) SA(SRM) AAS, HAST, ee, AAA 
(2) Fe (HAC, AA) YET, Bayo 
(3) TOL ALT UT, OTE, UAE, AOA, TOT, THT, 


Rrra Tau 
aM, AT 
(s) ween afiatss, afsa 
(4) FL(AR aR SEAN 3 ad TW 
(&) (YSU, Are), afar, ated, afte, se, ses, 
Sea, ad, =, Fea, free, frees, firey, sires, fadeta, 
¥. APT - . 
(%) Gus (det) Brea, 
(2) fog (teat, areaR stem Ee, alert) -fexear, feserd, fs 
BG, Be, HE 
(3) WS(ATeA, WT SET Marae, Teh, Teh, WHET, Teal, TSM, 
aa fare, fama, fawsta, faye fawsad fautfoa 
Parra 
(s) WA (Hret, cHeT A dren) dacat 
(4) FL (BMA May asada 
(©) © (GHA, Ted HT, HA, IE, SUR, fra, Tay, 
feaarr 


4. aapfe, wa, at, afte, ation 
& winger, Ue Ae, aya 
9. -8, Fr, Fs aM, TANT 
C. FRETS, Farrage 


viii 


frera att 


arent & Wala-eT 


2. 


fg- Stet & vataardt-am, fgaa, ana, 7, SY ST | arf 
FAR (2) & valsarat-afea, ca) sta (2) & vataare 


Wee, SAM, FH, AA, FS, Aa, TAA, BAS, cra, fairs 


a & yataarel- arg, ys, Fa ar gat (eae A HON)-TeI 


. (7 (ae, a aH) & vata PT 1 wa (GEERT, 


Taras sit gers) | sifta (crafts, woufia, asarfta) 
aree-fF, aa 


| Aa, qa (aan at aad sare qalte, a7, cacy, warty), 


as (Bh, WG, aay, Had) & ard Fae 1 Ha (Hera fra 
an & x ax O), form, afer | aR (Aer, cay, aitz ait Fa) 
% ard F-arfey, walfa aroaity, gure, ahh, Tora TTT), 
srafate, Tax satay, sefy, srecafy, vate, sea arn, 
arquifar fay, area 


. (33) ae (ree & ra war & are Ba S Vale ais yea at 


® & wala a | sea (ata aed ar aa at sieai) are 8 - 
ahaa, fara | am (ata H Yaa aafae, areite, 31H, 
vanfecal, dicitiae) & vataardt-x, ar, arto, gy, 312%, 
any, sy, fafsra, facitna, yas, areas, THT | TATA (4 


AM ay et TL ZS, G)-aed A Aq (3 


STAT 14 Fas) 


. US, T(E TH Ae & fares, AYR a, Bra, ABaPa) 1 3h 


(4 SARea ait HA), eq (toy, asl, Sara, fre, weg aaa) 
wh (WS eA) 


Od | Bist & are A (elfen & ara Or Gata H ara rst 
3 WAM @) antsy, ata, Fa, qo | ats Caratty-apa fafa 1 eax 


(Sita & ld ACIS, BIT, WI, wea, Tan, dad ik 
Free), AU Fda (MRT H AA Udapete, Hele, yr, 


| franc ato Ft warn oie & vata yee 


stat wee F foray & alate afta Safae a Se ay sik va 
Sort fea ware | ae fears, fire feta ae weep] frei 
H frat sie & fac aa arf & wee ar a7 gan 2 fara fd sot 
ete 1 ard ag} sent at cara then & arqan saan sahara fear 
%, came Tela A ran Ga feat & fer sas Area Sra ta aU 
ama & iad ag at ate ‘Hevale’ fate ara F waters & fara ‘ae’ 
4 ana (aie) ars af sik wat & aren ar eel Bo aHes 1 ga 
War ‘2’ site 2 at a af ar e-20 af 2 1 Tat a ae 2-4 Taz 
AH e-cEI 
wee Wala art den feast we yest Sr HH TTS G afer eras 
1 3am Ent Pifee ster at HH afer & ard era z 1 (Sars B se) 
Bare | He vale’ Here ar wy afer} ars Starz | ares we F fk 
ards sis (3a Ae) fers ra & faras are ort eR & ara Sas 
ated Tela & tara Pfea erate | 
o (RA Sane aa sas Tay Grell Casa A He Fel AM YT 
Bla 8S, HH, 34, 7, ara faae, aig anfe Seay ava 
ar pot sel) yh, sr, ferns aT cH Te SRT AT eM, aT fete 
Rate Ts Hi AM, FER 
¢/s - ae, af 
We aT ae +2 /%, Be, Be ante sent sie wera sit 
ama 2) | 
outa -9/s (aa, oH safe sera Hi oraz 
9/2 HS ca (ga HSI &H HF FG, ora Bik a Wee aT, 
wert & ad F oa, da safe aa Z| 
&. Us- Yel & vale are wee-qq, y, fafa, | eof, feng, 
age, WF, a, agen, AAT | TT H Vala ara, 
Whe, AIT, FG, ses, fay, qurg, waren, wie, vitae 
sia, Feary, Pera, faa, Gorter 


farsi ira wae aia yah wee ix 


Ro 


Re. 


WIS, HIS STA, Fes al am, 77, ax, gy, sta oda, areas, 
feratz | 


. a, welt al F (are forma ane femnait at arcor fest ee 


2+ AY UM, a, RG, WM, ATS, Hare fee 1 wt ate F 
(ars Femail & ad) ar, Ysa, HOTS, sare, fe, we | 
FY (Ars TY Y-SAH Ua & stare Hts I | Bat AGT A ae 
we al dh Tae era Z) 


_ AA HH (2 Ae cH AS Ae B), Hy foe-MR Gi fore a 


SRG, a My, A Ns, Ae, AAS AAS) TH, ra F< (FAT FAT 
ar aaa 2) 

fesn (ca fama, an fee, an ary, sur AR), aie A fee 
BTM Z iho TA 13H), faeg, Hrs, z 1VaAMR ve A), aka 
3 1RB A 

oe Be Mae @ aa: fa & vale aed wez-eg, fits Sy, 
fata, 14, BY, Seay, ware, frat 


. afefas 92 qa anige (aad Ste ana arate) anfeer 


ar ard ga oft eta 2 art: at & ala art wee-arh, anfe, 
Hey, YS, US, THR, TH 


. faa 
Fen wa fer Fey aq at gs A 2 He: SAH Tatar 


Rse-A4, Ra, sh, AE 


_ Farr (ree var F gu, fate ards | 
_ Ware ate et aR are Rawe-gell oy og Te 


aval ®) Fo (qa at Tala) safe (ars 311) 


. FATE ER ga & shee aad Sara gai ors ar aaa 


aA Gad 2), seate (aie ar ee a Se) 
ofa 


_ arfaefi 


. WT 


2%. 
rae 
Q3. 
2. 
4, 
29, 
32. 


33 


SS. 


foara atu 


4a (& 1§ 2) 

arse, 27a (& 1¢ 2), fas 

ata (ie 12%) afta zara aft & 23 Tie | 

farg, fara, sara (ae Ba defer, ye Waa Ty 

aed (ABA, TAT, aaa ai Fa YA Fer @) 

1 (29 FAA) 

TA, FH (Gia 32 2) 

Saat & arf FH Baar 33 a 33 Fie a ay Pek 2a 
Trafor 


“AeA (<8 4a 8) 


Introduction! 


In his’ Brihat Samhita, Varaha-mihira 
enumerates the requisite qualifications of an 
astronomer. According to him, an astronmer should 
be able to explain the differences in the various 
Siddhantas, to demonstrate with the help of 
instruments the moment of the Sun’s turning to the 
north or to the south, and of his entering the prime 
vertical and the meridian, and to make calculation 
agree with observation. 


Unfortunately, the true science of astronomy 
has been ousted by the pseudo-science of astrology, 
whose votaries are to be found in almost every town 


* 


1. Tycho Brahe (1546-1601 A.D.), a Dane, born at 
Knudsthrop, near the Baltic, three years after Copernicus 
(1473-1543 A.D.) teminated his career. The fame of Tycho 
has been obscured by his rejection of the Copernican 
doctrine, and the construction of a system of his own, 
combining the elements of the Ptolemaic and Copernican 
theories. He maintained the earth to be the immovable 
centre of the universe, but supposed the planets to revolve 
round the Sun, and to be carried with their centre in 
revolution round the earth. Samanta Chandrasekhar, 
contrary to Tycho’s university education royal favour, was 
conserevative and well versed in Hindu - Astronomy by 
the study of Siddhantas without any royal patronage and 
was far from modern education even in 19th century i.e. 
300 years after Tycho. But strangely enough 
Chandrasekhar adopts the planets’ orbit as conceived by 
Tycho, who was usually deemed discreditable in those 
days for his hypothesis. Despite this late Prof. Jogesh Ch. 
Roy, an admirer of Chandrasekhar, however finds 
pleasure in comparing with Tycho. 


xii fara odor 


and village of India at the present day. No doubt, 
there are men who have committed to memory some 
stray couplets from Siddhantas, and can perhaps 
compute an almanac with the aid of tables. But, as 
Bhaskara has well said, an astronomer without a 
knowledge of spherics is what food is without 
clarified butter, a monarchy without its monarch, 
and an assembly without a speaker. 


Astronomy as a science is not cultivated by 
those whose business it should be to do so. They 
would rather learn to read the thoughts of simple 
persons and pretend to predict future events, than 
dive into the mysteries of Kalpas and Yugas, for 
less observe the heavens. Those that have a desire 
to study the science have no means of doing it, 
while those that have the means have no desire to 
watch the movements of the planets. Our students 
of the English colleges are busy in cramming the 
answers to expected questions and our university 
men are too busy to have leisure to think about the 
revival of the indigenous sciences and arts of the 
country. It is not strange therefore that the | 
mathematical science of astronomy has_ been 
relegated to the halfread, illiterate, fortune-tellers 
who are not ashamed to assume the title of 
mathematician. For, the name mathematician (T+) 
has been degarded to mean only an astrologer. | 


In this state of indigenous sciences, it is singular | 
to find a man born and brought up in the recesses | 
of the hills of Orissa, far removed from all | 
educational activity and the influence of imported | 
western civilization, silently trading his way into, 
such a difficult science as mathematics. It is a unique | 
experience in the department of national 
development to find a man really striving after | 


Introduction xiii 


knowledge for its own sake, under difficulties 
whose magnitude is no less startling than the 
boldness of his attempt. 

This is my apology for bringing before the 
public, a Sanskrit work written entirely in the way 
of our ancient Siddhantas and never meant to see 
the light. It is the life-long labour of Chandrasekhara 
Simha Samanta of Orissa, written in a language 
which few men care to study in these days of 
English education. 


Modern Europe boasts of discoveries, one of 
which alone would have been the glory of the past. 
The science of astronomy has been developed to so 
great an extent as to shed a lustre on the bright 
records of original and patient researches in the 
domain of Physical Science. The telescope, the 
spectroscope, and last but not the least, the art of 
photography, have gone hand in hand in the service 
of dillgent workers. In these days of “scopes” and 
“meters”, it may be thought useless to put forward 
the poor work of a Hindu whose education is in no 
way superior to that of an astronomer of 
pre-telescopic Europe. And there are men, too, who 
have thought that much nonsense has already been 
written about him. 


Let them but calmly take stock of the present 
state of Hindu astronomy. Let them find out a 
couple of mathematicians, brought up wholly in 
sanskrit studies, who can intelligently attack the 
intricate calculations of a solar eclipse. Nor is there 
any noticeable endeavour to revive the science. 
What with natural apathy, and what with want of 
encouragement by endowments, no addition to the 
stock of the world’s knowledge has been made by 
my countrymen for many a long year. If in these 


xiv frert adur 


circumstances something, however poor, is laid 
before us, something, however crude, is evolved 
from within, we should rejoice over it. 


Whatever may be thought of the merits of the 
work, I regard it as a misfortune that the author 
has not found a man to introduce his work, better 
qualified than myself, whose daily avocations run 
in a different groove. For my part, I shall deem my 
efforts amply rewarded, if my countrymen, to 
whom original researches are as yet a thing of the 
future, find in the life and doings of my author a 
living example of what patient inquiry after truth 
and diligent struggle after knowledge can achieve. 
But I caution them again against high hopes. To 
apperciate the man, one must compare his work 
with others produced under similar conditions. It 
will be unfair to expect anything new in the work 
which will be useful to those who have studied 
European Science. Let me therefore briefly recount 
a few bright names from the annals of our ancient 
astronomy that the present work may be taken and 
its true worth. 


Not to dive into the antiquity of Hindu 
astronomy, which is as old as the Vedas and 
regarding which abler men have measured swords, 
let me begin the story from the point where we 
tread on the firm ground of history. It begins with 
Aryabhatta of Kusumapura (Pataliputtra), the 
Andubarius of the Greeks, the Arjabhara of the 
Arabs, and the Indian founder of the theory of the 
earth’s daily rotation. He was born in the Saka year 
398 (A.D.476) and wrote his famous work at the age 
of twenty-three. It was he in whose work we find, 
as far as our present knowledge goes the first 
successful attempt to soive indeterminate equations 


Introduction xv 


of the first degree. He enjoyed a wide reputation 
which can only be explained by supposing that he 
was an original observe and made improvements 
upon older astronomy. 


Hindu astronomy was then passing through the 
state of childhood, and a few years later, we find 
Varaha-mthira of Avanti (Ujjayini), adoring the court 
of Vikramaditya the Great, about whom many a tale 
of adventure and narrow escape from death has 
been recounted. Varaha’s encyclopaedic knowledge 
made him famous. But he is remembered more as 
a compiler than as an original. worker. His 
astronomical compilation, named Panchasiddha- 
ntika was written about the Saka year 427 (505 A.D.) 


Next, the name of Brahmagupta, son of Jishnu, 
introduces an important chapter in the history of 
Sanskrit astronomy. He wrote his work, 
Brahmasphuta-siddhanta in Saka 550 (628 A.D.) at 
the age of thirty, somewhere near Rewa. He was a 
practical astronomer, and made several corrections 
in the older astronomy. Indeed, the form in which 
we find Hindu astronomy at the present day, dates 
from him. He was a consummate algebraist, from 
whom the Arabs got their knowledge of the science. 
An indeterminate equation of the second degree, of 
which he gives solution, was a prize problem in 
Europe as late as the 17th century. 


But the fame of Bhaskar born in the Saka year 
1036 (1114 A.D.), near the. Sahyadri (Western 
Ghats), threw all his predecessors into the shade. 
He is a glory to us, a wonder among Europeans. 
His great work Siddhanta-Siromani, is one of the 
standard treaties of the present day. He appears to 
have made use of the Differential Calculus. 


xvi foam ator 


With the death of Bhaskara, the living breath 
of mathematical science parted from India. Repeated 
invasions by a barbarous nation poured forth an 
abundance of calamities and in the troubled times 
the sacred muse of learning fled and hid herself 
among a herd of commentators in the Deccan. In 
the dark ages that followed, amidst the petty 
dissensions of a host of semi-indepndent States, we 
find intellectual effort at a stand-still; men were 
content to chew the cud of what their predecessors 
had thought and done. At last, one name of this 
period is worth mentioning. This is Ganesa of 
Nandigrama who wrote his Graha-laghava in Saka 
1442 (1520 A.D.), a work which has been employed 
as an easy hand-book of astronomy in some parts 
of the country. Arab influence and, latterly, the 
contact with Europeans did not benefit the science 
much. It was during the reign of Jayasimha of 
' Jayapura so late as the 17th century, that the Arabic 
Almagest and Euclid were translated into Sanskrit, 
and it was he at whose instance five observatories 
were built at various places in Northern India. 


’ The long chain of astronomers was snapped 
asunder for a period of at least four hundred years. 
No doubt, there were astronomers, as there are 
now, and some of them may have for a time enjoyed 
a reputation, however local in character. But they 
have hardly left any permanent mark on the 
progress of the science. 


Will it be estimating this work too highly if we 
regard Chandrasekhara as forming a link in the long 
chain ? Be that as it may, it is a most gratifying 
thing that Chandrasekhara has not laboured in vain. 
His work has already exercised an influence upon 
Hindu astronomy, and hence upon Hindu society. 


Introduction xv. 


I say upon Hindu society, to which a correct 
knowledge of the ever-changing positions of the 
heavenly bodies is neither a matter for the 
inquisitive, nor one which may be safely let alone. 
For, Hindu life is nothing if not a routine of religious 
practices, due observance of which necessitates a 
knowledge of the positions of the planets and the 
stars. Indeed, a correct almanac is an indispensable 
equipment of every Hindu household. All religious 
observances and rites are regulated by the almanac, 
and some of these require very accurate 
determinations. For instance, a Hindu must know 
the exact moment when a particular position ends 
and another begins. 


It has, however, been observed that no two 
current almanacs agree in their computations. A , 
fierce controversy is going on between the 
conservatives and the liberals in Hindu India about 
the correction of almanacs, and therefore about the 
data of the Siddhantas. The orthodox of the Hindu 
community refuse to believe in the existence of 
errors that have crept into the figures of the old 
Siddhantas in course of time. To use the foreign 
Nautical Almanac to regulate the religious 
observances is out of the question. Any correction, 
if necessary, must come from within, from a Hindu 
uninfluenced by foreign education. It is not for 
Europe, with all her brilliant scientific discoveries 
and wonderful inventions of labour-saving 
machinery, to take the place of the old Rishis, whose 
hallowed names are associated with every 
department of useful knowledge. Europe may be 
our guide in matters temporal, but must not dictate 
a work in matters spiritual. Materiaily, a Hindu is 


xviii faa or 


hardly of old days, though spiritually, I believe, he 
is still the same. 

The value of the Siddhanta-darpana, the work 
of an orthodox Hindu, showing errors in our 
current almanacs, cannot thus be over-rated. Here 
is a man who has practically tested the elements 
hitherto followed, and found reasons for correction. 
‘And he has authority for doing so from the 
honoured Rishis, who have given their sanction to 
the adoption of such corrections as may be 
necessary for the purpose of making calculation 
agree with observation. 


The influence which Chandrasekhar’s work has 
already exerted upon society is not inconsiderable. 
Some twenty-three years ago a meeting of learned 
Panditas and Hindu astronomers was called at Puri 
to select an almanac according to which the 
numerous daily rites of worship were to be 
conducted in the temple. The meeting decided in 
favour of the almanac computed after this work, 
One of the Chandrasekhar’s pupils has been 
computing an almanac every year, which is used 
not only at Puri but throughout the greater part of 
Orissa. Another pupil of his publishes a Bengali 
almanac which has a by no means insignificant sale. 
Thus Chandrasekhara has already gained a 
foot-hold in Hindu society and has inaugurated 
silently but effecually an advance upon the current 
almanacs. At any rate, he has silenced all 
opponents, and has made the question of correction 
possible in the near future. 


To fully apperciate him, it is necessary to say 
a few words on his early life and education. Some 
four years ago, | first made his acquaintance, and 
from conversation with him on astronomical 


Introduction xix 


subjects, I was surprised to find in him a man of 
genius and extraordinary merit. Since then I have 
looked into his work, Siddhanta-darpana, written 
on palm leaves in Oriya character, the result of his 
life-long labour in the field of astronomical research. 
Two years ago’ he was honoured by Government 
with the title of Mahamahopadhyaya, a title hitherto 
enjoyed only by Brahman versed in Sanskrit lore. 
Chandrasekhara however, is not a Brahman but a 
Kshattriya by caste. 


He was born in the Saka-year 1757 (1835 A.D.)? 
in the small village of Khandapara, some 50 or 60 
miles West of Katak, amidst the hills and jungles 
for which Western Orissa is famous. It is the chief 
town of the Raja of Khandapara - one of the 
tributary chiefs of Orissa. Chandrasekhara belongs 
to the Raj family, the present Raja, Natabara 
Mardaraj, Bhramaravara Ray being a son of 
Chandrasekhara’s eldest cousin. The full name of 
the author is Chandrasekhara Simha Samanta 
Harichandana Mahapatra. Harichandana and 
Mahapatara are mere titles bestowed by the Raja of 
Puri, whose influence upon the destinies of the 
Rajas of Orissa is still as unbounded as was that of 
the Pope of Rome on the vassals of medieval 
Europe. He is styled Samanta as befits a member 
of the Raj family. In Orissa, however he is best 


1. The sanad conferring the Mahamahopadhyaya to Samanta 
Chandrasekhar bears the date 3rd June, 1893. Hence this 
portion was written by late Prof. Jogesh Ch. Ray in the 
year 1895 and the article was complete and printed finally 
in the year 1899. 

2. Prof. Jogesh Ch. Roy has simply added 78 to the Saka 
era 1757 to get the A.D. But actually the date of birth 
when calculated comes to be 11th January, 1836 A.D. 


known by the familar name of Pathani Saanta 
(corrupted from Pathan and Samanta), a nickname 
given him by his parents on account of their first 
two children having died in infancy. 


At an early age Chandrasekhara received 
instruction in Sanskrit. For sometime he studied 
Sanskrit Grammar, Smritis and Puranas, logic and 
medicine, and read all the important Kavyas in the 
original. His education has thus been varied and 
many sided. But it has stood him in much better 
stead than the modern elaborately arranged 
curriculum of the English schools, through which 
he would have been thrust, had he lived nearer a 
town. . 


At the age of ten, one of his uncles’ taught him 
a title of astrology. He shewed the young 
Chandrasekhar some of the stars a satisfy his 
curiosity so natural in young children and thus 
gradually initiated him into the mysteries of 
astrology. At this age, his extraordinary desire to 
test for himself the position of the stars as they 
changed night after night was predominant. The 
determination of lagnas is a very frequent necessity 
in horoscopy; and the varying position of the 
planets among the stars, without a knowledge of 
which astrological predictions could not be made, 
led him to watch their movements. This idle 
curiosity exhibited in star-gazing developed into the 
habit, of a really fruitful study of astronomy. There 
was, however, no teacher who could instruct him 
in the science, and he was quite ignorant of any 
language save Sanskrit and his mother-tongue 


1, It was his father but not uncle according to the biographer 
Pt. Chandrasekhar Mishra of Khandapara: 


Introduction , xxi 


Oriya. He found, however, a few Sanskrit 
Siddhantas in the family library, and applied 
himself diligently to master them with the help of 
commentaries. 


At the age of fifteen, when — came to learn 
the meaning of lagna and the rules for calculating 
ephemerides of planets, he was surprised to find 
that neither did the stars apear on the horizon at 
the right moment, nor could the planets be seen in 
their right places. Again and again, he measured 
with a graduated rod the relative distances of the 
heavenly bodies in the vain hope of finding an 
agreement between calculation and observation, 
and, again and agian his hopes were dashed to the 
ground. Was it possible that the rules and the 
figures of the famous Siddhantas were not accurate 
enough, or was it possible that he had made errors 
in his daily observations? Correct observation was 
the only test to settle the question. There were no 
mathematical instrument-makers to supply him with 
the requisite instruments. The old Siddhantas give 
brief instructions for constructing them, and he had 
no other alternative than to make for himself, a few 
primitive instruments for measuring time and 
angular distance. 


Some of my readers may be desirous of 
knowing something of his observatory. It was the 
clear, blue vault of the heavens that was his 
observatory; and its equipment consisted of an 
armillary sphere and a vertical wheel as substitutes 
for modern transit and alta-azimuth, and the 
time-honoured clepsydra took the place of the 
sidereal clock. Of course, the all-useful gnomon 
found a place in the observatory, and 1 am 
informed, he had also a self-revolving instrument 


x04 fergie ator 


made of the pericarps of the Bottle-Gourd 
(Lagenaria Vulgaris) with water and mercury. But 
it was more of the nature of a curiosity than of 
much practical use. The instrument, of which he 
made constant use, was one devised by himself. 
This, which he is fond of calling his Manayantra 
(measuring instrument), may be properly called a 
tangent-staff, it consists of a thin rod of wood, 
twenty-four digits long, at one end of which is fixed 
another rod at right angles in the form of a T. The 
cross-piece is notched and also pierced with holes 
at distance equal to the tangents of the angles 
formed at the free extremity of the other rod. Of 
course, such a rude instrument did not admit of 
being so divided as to enable him to measure a 
degree with any accuracy. 


But it is a real pleasure to see him handling his 
Manayantra with a precision marvellous to behold. 
Constant practice has given him such facility with 
it, that he would not care to have recourse to his 
other instruments although better suited for 
measurement of vertical angles. Indeed, in most 
cases, mere inspection is often sufficient to enable 
him to hit the angle to the nearest degree. 


One instance of the perfection he has attained 
by practice came before us when I saw him for the 
first time. Some of my friends doubted his 
pretensions to practical astronomy, and were 
desirous of testing his knowledge. One evening 
when Mars and Venus were about 6° apart in the 
western sky, he was requested to show, if he could, 
with the help of any improvised instrument the 
actual distance between the planets. After a 
moment’s pause, he made his manyantra out of a 
stick 42 digits long, attaching a crosspiece of 4-1/2 


Introduction xxiii 


digits to one end. The trigonometrical functions of 
sines and cosines were all committed to his memory. 
The necessary calculations were mentally made, and 
his instrument was ready in a few minutes. 


On this occasion, he saw a telescope for the 
first time. He had heard of its wonderful powers, 
but had no idea of its performances. He requested 
me to show him the planets through one. 
Unfortunately, I had with me then a telescope no 
bigger than a refractor of 3-1/2” diameter. This was 
adjusted for him with a power of 80. The keen 
delight with which he looked at the varied and 
picturesque appearance of the moon, absorbing him 
for sometime can better be imagined than described. 
When the novelty of the aspect had abated a_-little, 
he wanted to know the magnifying power. He was 
told to find it out for himself, if he could. The 
question is itself puzzing, and I did not expect any 
answer. But he startled me by saying that the 
instrument magnified about one hundred 
diameters. He had measured the enlarged image of 
the moon as seen through the telescope and had 
compared it with the appearant to diameter 
well-known to him. 


The planet jupiter was next shown through the 
telescope. I should rather say that he directed the 
instrument to the planet and saw it himself. The 
apparent motion of the planet quickened by about 
a hundred times through the instrument, was 
followed by him for sometime till he could see the 
belts and the satellites to his heart’s content. It was 
at this moment that he gave vent to his bitter regret 
that he had not the advantage of such instruments 
in his younger days. 

Next morning we had a talk about tithis. I said 


xxiv fart equ 


that the almanac-makers of Bengal would not be 
believe in any variation in accepted duration of the 
tithis. Hearing this, he was silent for a minute or 
two, as if he doubted the fact. Being pressed for 
his opinion, he quoted a line from his work, 
meaning that arguments can never defeat the results 
of direct observation. . 


He had read in a vernacular text book that the 
sun sometimes exhibited dark spots on his radiant 
orb, and was anxious to see if it was really so. I 
asked him to accept the fact as true; but he said he 
would not believe it unless he saw spots with his 
own eyes. To this I retorted by asking if he had 
ever believed in the existence of the seven 
atmospehrs of the Siddhantas. His reply was that 
the statement was to be taken at what it was worth, 
and he had no opinion of his own to give. The 
minimum sun-spot period had been passing; but a 
few that he saw made him reflect upon them a long 
while. 


None can read his life without gaining a fresh 
insight into the marvellous thoroughness with 
which our ancestors devoted themselves to their 
studies, our universitymen being only surface-deep 
in subjects more than one. The living breath of 
science has departed from India with the departure 
of men whom Chandrasekhara had made his ideal. 
He is an adherent of truth obtained by direct 
observation, and with all his respect for the 
ancients, would not hesitate to denounce a Sastric 
authority, if a proof to the contrary were obtained. 
Were he placed in a well-equipped observatory of 
modern days, I doubt not he would enrich science 
with his assiduous labour and valuable obser- 
vations. 


Introduction : xXV 


Unaided and surrounded, as he was by practical 
difficulties, what patient labour he must have 
undergone in his early days to observe and workout 
practically the astronimical elements of the planets. 
What numberless observations must he have made 
to test every figure used in the Siddhantas, in order 
to see if it remained true or not. Night after night 
passed away in the all-absorbing business of 
star-measurement. An eclipse of the sun or of the 
moon was an event in his life never to be forgotten. 


Thus it was that his early days passed. To the 
uninitiated, his was frivolous work fit for children 
in want of better employment. Those who cared to 
understand his business failed to appreciate it. What 
if the planets moved out of their path ? Besides, 
was it not the work of professional astrologers ? 
And was it not unbecoming one in his position ? 
He began to be called by the people Raj-Jyotishi as 
a sort of nickname. The Raja of the State considered 
himseif degrated by the profession of his uncle, and 
could never countenance his pursuits. Thus his 
relations with the Raja have become far from cordial, 
and the later has been unable to appreciate the 
utility of his work. 


At the age of twenty-three, Chandrasekhar 
began to note down systematically the results of his 
observations and three years later the idea of 
embodying them in a work flashed into his mind. 
By this time, his mastery over Sanskrit had become 
so complete that he could compose elegant verses 
in it impromptu. Indeed, the composition of his 
work had begun in his mind long before it was 
written on palm-leaf. In this way, between 
observation and measurement and composition his 
days were divided. He was increasantly engaged 


xxvi fagri ei 


with his work for the full period of six years, and 
the first copy was not ready before he was thirty. 


This constant strain upon his body which had 
never been strong began to undermine his system. 
He contracted a disease which has been his constant 
companion. Besides, the privations he had to bear, 
consequent upon his scrupulous adherence to the 
Sastric injunctions of strict vegetarianism, proved 
too much for his naturally weak system. Dyspepsia 
with its attendant colic has impaired his health. At 
times it becomes so painful that he is compelled to 
break off conversation and roll down on the ground 
till the attack is over. Full meals, frugal as they are, 
he has not enjoyed for the last thirty years, and has 
seldom permitted himself the indulgence of even 
half meals twice a day. The study of astronomy has 
been a passion with him, and any medicine you 
may prescribe for him, must neither contain any 
forbidden ingredient, nor, what is more important, 
interfere with his daily work. Even in his present 
invalid stale he would willingly sit up a whole night 
if it were for anything connected with his favourite 
subject. When he came here to receive the title of 
honour conferred upon him, he could not be 
persuaded to stay a single day after the Durbar, as 
an eclipse of the Sun was to occur a few days later. 
And how could he stay away from his observatory, 
and allow such a momentous event to pass by 
unnoticed ? 

His naive simplicity and unassuming manners 
have rather been a drawback than an advantage to 
him. The common people, who do not understand 
the difference between astrology and astronomy, 
pester him so much with questions on their destiny, 
that it is only his amiable disposition that makes 


Introduction xvii 


him endure the constant infliction. Even those who 
might be expected to know better will not scruple 
to ply him with absurd questions and waste the few 
moments left to him between the beginning of one 
series of daily devotions and the end of another. 


If he is a practical mathematician, no one is so 
unpractical in worldly matters as he is, Simple as a 
child, he depends upon his servants for his 
guidance. Neither is he well off, in the sense of 
possessing a competency in life; and, related as he 
is to a Raja, he is unable to make both ends meet. 
A retinue of attendant hereditarily maintained in 
his family has to be supported in the usual manner. 
The small income of Rs.500 a year from a few small 
villages, and a quantity of food grains from his 
tenants, are hardly sufficient in these days of high — 
prices. Poverty has pinched him in his old age and 
has compelled him to incur a large debt. 


The general public does not care to know his 
incomings and outgoings, his privations and 
star-gazings. ‘“‘What has he done after all ?” - asks 
the impatient critic. To him, I would say, is it not 
enough to find in this man a true lover of sclence 
who regardless of other peoples unfavourable 
opinion of his work their taunts and dissusions, has 
devoted his whole life to the one pursuit of 
knowledge; who has shown the way to original 
research amidst difficulties serious enough to 
dishearten men in better circumstances who has 
employed his time usefully, instead of frittering it 
away like the usual run of men of his rank, on a 
work which guides the daily routine of millions of 
his countrymen ? 


I do not pretend to express any opinion on the 
literary merits of his work but it appears to me that 


wii faera cit 


the metrical composition alone, apart from its value 
as a contribution to Hindu astronomy is such as to 
entitle him to a high place among the writers of 
Sanskrit verse of the present day. It contains, as he 
telis us at the end of the work,’ 2,500 slokas of 
various poetical metres. Of these 2,284 verses have 
been composed by him and the remaining 216 
quoted from the old Siddhantas. Of the latter, the 
Surya-Siddhanta and the Siddhanta-Siromani have 
been very largely drawn upon. Indeed, as Bhaskara 
has Brahmagupta for his guide, when writing his 
Siromani, Chandrasekhara has, in the main, 
followed in the footsteps of Bhaskara. : 

But Chandrasekhara has not been a blind 
follower of his master. The elements of the planets, 
given by Bhaskara, have not been accepted by his 
disciple, and for the simple reason, that they are 
_ hot correct for the present day. Bhaskara’s elements 
are not accurate, though there is no reason for 
doubting the accuracy of his observations. This fact 
is, he had to depend upon his predecessors - 
probably Brahmagupta was his main guide - for the 
positions of the planets and was thus led to 
erroneous results. 


Chandrasekhara had the advantage of 
Bhaskara’s observations. The latter has, of course, 
nowhere recorded his observations. But given his 
date and his elements, it is easy to find the positions 
of the planets as he must have observed them. For 
the elements if employed to calculate the positions 
of the planets after a long interval, may lead us to 
wrong results; but, it employed for places nearer 
his time, will be in accordance with his observations. 
Thus, furnished with one set of position at a given 
date, Chandrasekhara himself supplied the other 


Introduction . XxIX 


set required, and the result obtained is what 
Chandrasekhara has given us in the present work. 
For easy reference, the sidereal periods as he 
ascertained them, are given below side by side with 
those of European astronomy, the Surya-Siddhanta © 
and the Siddhanta-Siromani. It is not my object to 
criticise how far the constant employed in these two 
Siddhantas were true when they were observed, 
though it will be clear from the comparison that 
they are certainly erroneous for the present time. It 
is easy to follow when someone has Ited the way; 
but it needed the art of a rural Pandit, guiltless of 
western “fire” to prove their incorrectness and to 
pave the way for further progress in this 
department. (See table 1) 


It will be seen from the above that Chandra- 
sekhara has practically assumed the sidereal periods 
of the Sun and the Moon, as given in the 
Surya-Siddhanta, but has materially advanced upon 
it as regards the periods of the other planets. 
Having regard to the comparatively slow motion of 
Jupiter and of Saturn, and the nature of the 
instruments used, it would have been a surprise if 
closer approximation to their true periods were 
made. 


Let us now compare the mean inclinations of 
the orbits of the planets to the ecliptic.(See Table 2) 


On account of the difference in the planetary 
theories and in the method of calculation between 
modern astronomy and our Siddhantas, the 
eccentricities of the planetary orbits cannot be 
compared with advantage. But as they made no 
difference in the case of the Sun and the Moon, 
their greatest equations are given Here for 
comparison. (See Table 3) 


(TABLE I) 
SIDERAL PERIODS IN MEAN SOLAR DAYS 


Siddhanta 
Darpana+ Difference 


Siddhanta- 
Siromani+ Difference 


Surya Siddhanta 
+ Difference 


European 
Planets Astronomy 


Q) 


365.25875 + 00238 
27.32167 + .00001 
686.9857 + .0063 
87.9701 + .0009 
4333.6278 + .0430 
224.7023 + 0016 A 
10759.7605 


365.25843 
27.32114 
686.9979 
87.9699 
4332,2408 
224.9679 
10765.8152 


365,25875 
2732167 
686.9975 
87.9285 
4332.3206 
224.6985 
10765.7730 


Sun 365.25637 
Moon 2732166 
Mars 686.9794 
Mercury 87.9692 
Jupiter 4332.5848 
Venus 224.7007 
10759.2197 


Saturn 


TABLE 2 
Eng.Ast. Surya S. Siromani Darpana 

Mercury* ? 0 8" 5°55” 6° 55’ ? 2’ 
Venus* 3. 53 35 2 46 3 6 3 23 
Mars 1 S51 2 1 30 1 50 1 51 
Jupiter 1 18 41 1 0 1 16 1 18 
Saturn 2 29 40 2 0 2 40 2 29 
Moon cae 5 8 48 4 30 4 30 5 9 
Obliquity of —... 23 27 24 0 24 0 23 30 
the Ecliptic 


' The inclination given in the Siddhantas is reduced to the geocentric system. The general reader may be reminded that the inclinations 
«ve all subject to variation and that the old Siddhanta values were not so far wide of the truth as they appear from the table. 


TABLE 3 
English Astronomy Surya-Siddhanta™ Siddhanta Darpana™* 
Sun Ps 1° 55’ 19” 2 40° 31" I 55” 33" 
Moon vue 6 3 41 5 2 46 5 1 10 


** According to Siromoni, the Sun's equation is the same as is shown under Surya-Siddhanta and the Moon’s equation is slightly less. 


uoRonpeyu] 


oxi frera wit 


It will be needless to compare the rates of 
motion of the nodes and apsides. It is possible for 
modern European astronomy, with instruments 
enabling it with ease to measure the three thousand 
and six hundredth part of a degree and with its 
engines of higher methematics to handle intricate 
problems, unheard of before, to deduce the 
elements of orbits from a very few observations 
made at no distant dates. But it requires the lapse 
of years - nay centuries - to do the same with 
primitive instruments and equally primitive 
mathematics. The motions of the nodes and apsides 
are so slow that Bhaskara despaired of ever 
measuring them, Chandrashekhara was equally in 
despair in these cases. But as the positions of the 
Moon’s nodes and perigee are often required, and 
their motions comparatively rapid, I quote their 
side-real period in mean solar days. 


Eng. Ast. Surya S. Siromani Darpana 
Node 6798.279  6794,395 6792.254 6792.644 
Perigee 3232.575 = 3232.094 3232.734 3232.657 


The reader will notice that Chandrasekhara has 
devised a correction to be applied to the 
Mandochcha of the planets, Mercury, Mars and 
Saturn. He has called it Parochcha and the greatest 
amounts are 11’ 20’, 7° 30’ and 5° for the three 
planets respectively (Siddhanta Darpan V.76). 

It is, however, in computing the Moon’s place 
that Chandrasekhara has discovered some original 
correction, - original in the sense of their having 
been unknown to the ancient astronomers of our 
country. It is curious to note that they failed to 
discover the perturbation, known as Evection which 
is said to have been detected by Hipparchus about 


Introduction XXXIiL 


150 years B.C. It is an irregularity which may put 
the Moon forward or backward over a degree. 
Pandit Sudhakar Dwivedi informs us in his excellent 
manual, called Ganaka-Tarangini, that Munjala 
(A.D.933) had something like “‘evecation’ in his 
karana named Laghumanasa. He appears to have 
been the oldest Hindu astronomer who detected the 
irregularity, through curiously enough, his 
successors including Bhaskara left it unnoticed. 
The next large irregularity of the Moon, called 
“variation,” has a period of one month, and a 


.maximum of 39’31”. This inequality does not affect 


the time of an eclipse, and the fact sufficiently 
explains its absence in Sanskrit Siddhantas.’ It is 
said to have been detected by an Arbian astronomer, 
Aboul Wefa about the year 975 A.D., -and re- 
discovered by Tycho Brahe in the 16th century. The 
last large inequality of the Moon’s place is called 
“annual equation,” and has the maximum amount of 
11’9”, This was also discovered by Tycho Brahe. 


It is singular that Chandrasekhara is the only 
Indian astronomer who has detected all the three 
important irregularities of the Moon. As has been 
said before, he did not know English and had not 
means of knowing of the existence of the 
irregularities from any foreign source; and the 
methods of applying the corrections together with 
discrepancies between his values and those of 
Europe leave no doubt in our mind that he must 
be credited with their discovery. He has named the 


1. From Dwivedi’s Ganaka-tarangini, it appears that 
Nityananda in 1639 A.D, used a correction called 
Pakshika. But it is not clear from the name alone, if it 
had any connection with ‘variation’. 


xxxiVv . foara cio 


inequalities, Tungantara, Pakshika and Digamsa, with 
the maximum amounts of 2°40’, 3812”, and 12’ 
respectively (S.D.VI.7). 

For those who may be inclined to compare his 
corrections, his method of applying them is briefly 
described here. After the equation of centre 
(maximum amount 5° 1° 10”) has been applied to 
the mean Moon, call the result Ist Moon M1 Then 
add to, or subtract from it, according as the anomaly 
happens to be within the first six or the second six 
signs. 

160’ x SinfA - (0+3)] Sin(M1-0) 
R xR 
Ist Moon motion 
mean motion 

where A stands for the Moon’s apogee, and 0 
for the true Sun. The two signs (+) are to be taken 
in the case of the light and dark halves of each lunar 
month respectively. The result obtained is called the 
2nd Moon, M2. 

To apply the Pakshika correction, take 

M2 - 0 Z 4b (say). Subtract b from 3 (Signs) 
ae: 3 
and take the less of two quantities, a and 


x 


_»b ae sin2y . 
- —) and say, it is y. Then is the 
(3 3? ais y 90 


corection required. It should be noted that the 
denominator (90) is not constant, but can be 
obtained. The correction is to be added to, or 
substracted from the 2nd Moon, as the latter lies 
within the first or the second quadrature. Call the 
Moon thus corrected, the third Moon, M3- 


Introduction XXXV 


Now, take 1/10 of the Sun’s equation and 
mutiply by the first Moon’s motion, dividing by its 
mean motion. Add the result to the 3rd Moon, when 
the Sun’s equation is subtractive, and subtract from 
it when the Sun’s equation is additive. After this, 
the other corrections (such as Bhujantara), common. 
to all the planets, are to be applied before the 
Moon’s place becomes apparent. 


On a cursory view, the amount of Tungantara 
inequality appears double of that of evection. But 
if we take the Moon’s greatest equation of centre 
into account, the apparent discrepancy vanishes. 
For, the amount of the greatest equation of the 
Moon is 6° 18’, and the maximum evection 1° 20’ 
making the total of 7°38’. Chandrasekhara has 5°1’ 
as the greatest equation and 2° 40’ as the greatest 
Tungantara, making the total of 7° 41’. The other 
inequalities discovered by Chandrasekhara are 
about the same as those in use in English 
astronomy. 


The astronomical constants adopted by our 
India astronomers open up a large field for enquiry. 
It is not my purpose to discuss their bearings upon 
the antiquity of Indian astronomy. But I cannot but 
remark that it is often reiterated in season and out 
of season than substantiated, that the Indian 
astronomers borrowed largely from Greek 
astronomy. As far as I am aware, this assertion is 
based upon (1) the identity of certain Sanskrit and 
Greek astronomical terms, (2) the fact of Garga 
praising the Yavanas for their proficiency in 


1. It should be noted here that the last-named inequality 
(Digamsa) is also applied to the Moon’s node in the 
above-mentioned manner (S.D.VHI,33). 


astronomy, and (3) the presence in Sanskrit of 
certain astronomical treatises words admittedly of 
foreign origin. This is not the place to discuss the 
subject throughly. But as far as my knowledge goes, 
these arguments, when weighed against others, are 
not at all convincing. 


The presence of Greek terms in Sanskrit is 
certainly a strong presumption in favour of the 
theory. But when the uses of the terms are taken 
into consideration, it is found that with the possible 
exception to the word ‘Kendra’! meaning 
“anomaly”, all the rest properly belong to astrology. 
Of course, when once the terms had been 
introduced into Sanskrit, our astronomers did not 
hesitate to use them freely in astronomy, side by 
side with pure Sanskrit terms, The passage where 
Garga extolled the Yavanas does not occur in an 
astronomical work, but in a Samhita which was 
rather a work on astrology than astronomy. Nor 
can we logically infer from the passage that the 
Yavanas were proficient in astronomy rather than 
in astrology, or that the Hindus borrowed the 
knowledge from them. The name Yavanacharya 
occurs only in connection with Samhita. Next the 
presence of Romaka’ and Paulisa Siddhantas among 
others of purely Indian origin proves nothing 
beyond the bare fact of their presence and I do not 
see how it can be taken to imply that the Hindus 
had not obtained the constants of their Siddhantas 


1. See, however Bhaskara’s derivation of the word in his 
Siromani. 

2. The Romaka-Siddhanta of Varaha-mihita is in no way 
superior to his Saura-Siddhanta, as was remarked by 
himself. 


Introduction xxxvii 


by independent observation. On the contrary, the 
fact of their retaining the foreign name (at least the 
name Romaka), shows that the foreign Siddhantas 
were distinct from what were Indian, and there is 
no proof that the Romaka or any other foreign 
Siddhanta was ever in use in this country, 
superseding the purely Indian productions. To give 
an analogy, a Sanskrit translation of the British 
Pharmacopoeia will no more prove the absence of 
Charaka than an English translation of the later will 
prove the absence of the former. All that we can 
logically infer is that there was intimate intercourse 
between the Hindus and the Yavanas, a fact 
otherwise known from political history. The Hindus 
may have been indirectly influenced by the 
teachings of the Yavanas. But it must be admitted 
that the Yavanas may have been also influenced by 
their presence among the Hindus. 


We can safely go so far, omitting all sorts of 
possibilities and vague conjectures. Having regard 
to our ignorance of the state of astronomy and its 
gradual development in India anterior to 
Aryabhatta, and our equal ignorance of the source 
of the knowledge credited to Hiparchus, it is 
hazardous to speak of the indebtedness of the one 
nation to the other. If the Hindus learnt the science 
of astronomy from the Yavanas, how is it that the 
constants of sanskrit astronomy are so different 
from those of Ptolemy ? How is it that the early 
Hindu writers were unacquainted with such useful 
as well as remarkable facts as the precesion of the 
equinoxes, or the evection inequality of the Moon ? 
On the contrary, the constants ought to have been 
identical, not only becaus they are believéd to have 
a common origin, but also because they represent 


xxvii faard Tao 


facts, as true for India as for Egypt or Greece. When 
one learns a science from another, it is natural to 
expect to find him copying not only the theory but 
also the practice, write or wrong. Dr. Thibaut 
repeats the suggestion made by Biot, that the early 
Hindus learnt their astronomical theories probably 
from Greek astrologers, and, the Doctor adds, also 
from almanac-makers, whose knowledge was as 
limited as that of there proto-types in the present 
day.! This is certainly an ingenious hypothesis; but 
as has been already remarked having regard to our 
ignorance respecting the growth and development 
of the science in India as well as in Egypt, we cannot 
but regard the hypothesis as not proven. I am 
inclined to believe that our knowledge of the source 
of Hindu astronomy has not advanced beyond the 
point where Colebrooke found it. All that can be 
safely asserted is what the illustrious oriental scholar 
said, that “‘the Hindus have certainly received and 
welcomed communications from other rations on 
topics of astrology and we add, that their 
indebtedness to Greece for the knowledge of 
scientific astronomy is still an oper question.” 


But this a digression. We have said that 
Chandrasekhara had made a real advance upon 
existing Hindu astronomy. But the best test of a 
theory lies in facts. For the reason given below, it 
is not easy, however, to satisfy oneself whether his 


1. See, Introduction to Pancha-Siddhantika by Dr. Thibaut 
and Mm. Suddhakara Dwivedi. 

2. It is much to be desired that some competent scholar 
would collect the arguments for and against the theory 
of indebtedness, and let us know how far, and in 
what-direction, Greek influence on Hindu astronomy 
extended. , 


Introduction XXX 


' ephemeris is correct, and how much confidence may 
be placed in it. For rough comparison, the places 
of the planets computed by him are shown below, 
toegther with their places, first according to the 
British Nautical almanac, and next according to a 
widely circulated Bengali almanac said to have been 
computed after the Surya-Sidhanta. The correction 
for precession in the places given in the Bengali 
almanac has been made by adding 20°54’ to them 
in accordance with the almanac. Besides these, I 
append ephemeris for two other days from the 
Nautical almanac and the Siddhanta-Darpana. 


For various reasons, neither Chandrasekhara’s, 
nor for that matter - any other Hindu almanac can 
coincide with the Nautical almanac. Neglecting 
minor corrections unknown in our almanacs, there 
is the determination of the exact amount of 
precession, without which no comparison is 
possible with European almanacs. To avoid it, the 
relative distance of the planets may be taken. It will 
be seen that while the Bengali almanac may be in 
error by as much as 4", the error in the ephemeris 
by the Siddhanta-Darpana is limited to 
half-a-degree. The reader will, however, remember 
that a Hindu astromoner depends upon unaided 
vision, and is satisfied if the longitudes are correct 
to a half degree. Accepting this as our standard, 
the ephemerides by the Siddhanta-Darpana 
compare favourably with those of the N.A., while 
the greater discrepancies in the Bengali almanac 
conclusively prove how urgent has been the 
question of the revision of our existing almanacs in 
the light of observations now made. (See Table ) 


LONGITUDES OF PLANETS OF THE 31ST JANUARY 1893 (KATAK, 6 p.m.) 


Nautical Almanac From 
Fixed Aries Vernal Equinox 


Siddhanta-Darpana 


From 


4) (2) (3) 
Sun « 10° 11° 54° 9° 19° 31’ 10° 11° 56’ 
Moon 4 424 31216 4 4 41 
Mars 022 48 0 0 7 O 22 22 
Mercury .. 10 0 33 9 8 23 10 O 58 
Jupiter 019 27 11 2643 #019 8 
Venus 919 19 8 26 48 9 19 12 
Satun .. 6 12 43 5 20 38 6 13 3 

20th February 1894 (Katak, 6 p.m.) 

N.A S.D. 
Sun 11 2° 8 11° 2 9 
Moon 0 21 40 O 21 46 
Mars - 1 6 5 1 5 30 
Mercury .. 11 5 14 11 4 57 
Jupiter 0 22 58 O 22 34 
Venus 10 14 16 10 12 42 
Saturn 6 12.1 #6 12 23 


Bengali Almanac 


From Fixed From Vernal 
Aries Equinox 
(4 (5) 
9° 19° 40’ 10°10° 34’ 17 
3 12 #1 4255 24 
11 29 4 0 20 37 9 
9 12 16 10 310 21 
11 27 6 018 O 6 
8 27 46 918 40 22 
5 22 14 613 8 2 
Ist March 1894 (Katak, 6 p.m.) 
N.A. 
11° 11° 10’ 11° 
4 27 7 4 
1 12 3 1 
11 22 14 11 
Q 24 46 0 
10 25 28 10 
6 11 13 6 


Dec. by 
N.A. 
(6 
14° =«2S 
1 sN 
14. =S 
45 $ 
32 N 
7 § 
41 S$ 
S.D. 
11° 11’ 
27.4 
11 27 
22 39 
24 21 
25 .25 
11_(56 


* It may be mentioned here that Ayanamsa on that day accosding to Chandrasekhara’s Siddhanta Darpana was 22° 25’, while Lahizi’s 
Ayanamsa as accepted by Govt. of India now, was 22° 21‘41"- EDITOR. 


MOUNANnnNAwn 


i 
4 


Introduction xii 


But before any reformation is attempted, an 
exact determination of the amount of precession 
becomes a question of paramount importance. The 
reader is a awre that in the Hindu system, the 
longitudes of celestial bodies are measured from a 
fixed point - say a star - in the ecliptic, instead of 
from the movable vernal equinox as is the practice 
in Europe. The question has therefore the same 
bearing upon our calculations, as the position of the 
so called First Point of Aries upon those of the 
Nautical almanac. 


Unfortunately, all attempts to solve the’ 
question have been practically fruitless. The reader 
will hence understand the chaos into which our 
almanacs have sunk. The gravity of the situation, 
and the difficulty of escaping from it, demand a 
fuller discussion than our space would permit. But 
then this alone can give us an opportunity of 
ascertaining Chandrasekhara’s success in this 
direction. 


Promising, then, that we measure longitudes of 
planets from a fixed point in the ecliptic, the 
question resolves itself into a determination of the 
point. In other words, what is that point, or what 
is its longitude from the vernal equinoctical point ? 
Whatever and wherever that point may be, it is the 
Starting point of our zodiac, and its longitude is 
known as ayanamsa, which literally means amount 
of solstices. For, we do not speak of the precession 
of the equinoxes as often as we do of the precession 
of the solstices. Hence, the ayana-chalanam of 
Sanskrit astronomy is equivalent to the precession 
of the equinoxes. To avoid ambiguity we shall use 
the term ayanamsa rather than the amount of 
precession. 


xii frgra cing 


The exact amount of the ayanamsa may be 
apparently determined in different ways. 1. The 
Siddhantas furnish a rule for computing it, which 
is in principle the same as the method of finding 
the longitude of a star at any given date by applying 
the amount of precession to its longitude at some 
other date. 2. Defining the initial with the help of 
other data, such as the recorded longitudes of'stars, 
its present longitude from the equinoctial point may 
be ascertained, 3. Knowing the exact year when the 
initial point was fixed, its present longitude 
, (ayanamsa) may be calculated from the known rate 
of precession. But it so happens that the results. 
obtained by these three methods do not agree. 


To begin with the first method, it will be seen 
that the different Siddhantas do not agree, either 
in the nature of precessional movement, or in its 
annual rate. According to some, the equinoxes have 
an oscillatory motion, turning to the right and to 
the left of the initial point within certain limits, and 
extending over a large interval of time; while others 
maintain their continuous motion backwards. 
Colebrooke compared the views of the libration and 
revolution theorists, and gave the rate of precession 
accordign to each. They are as follows:- 


Liberation Theory Annual Rate 
Surya-Siddhanta 54” 
Soma! Siddhanta 54” 
Sakalya Siddhanta 54” 
Laghu-Vasishtha Siddhanta 54” 
Parasara-Siddhanta 52” 35 


1. Ranganatha, in his commentary to the Surya-Siddhanta, 
quotes Soma-Siddhanta in support of the reading. 


Introduction xhiii 


Liberation Theory Annual Rate 
Aryashta Satika 

(quoted by Munisvara) 46” 25 
Manjula (quoted by Bhaskara)' 597.9 
Bhasvati 60” 
Grahalaghava 60” 


The derangement of the equinox from the intial 
point is 27° on either side according to the 
Surya-Siddhanta, and this limit was probably 
accepted by other libration theorists. 
Aryashta-Satika, however, gives the limit of 24° 
instead of 27’ (Colebrooke). 


We are not concerned here with the theories or 
the limits of libration. Surya-Siddhanta and the 
works based upon it, are now almost universally 
adopted throughout India for computing an 
almanac, though in some places Grahalaghava 
occupies the field. Now from the first, we find the 
ayanamsa for the first day of Saka 1816” (13th April 
1894) was 20° 55’, and from the second, 22°50’ for 
the same day. These amounts represent. the 
minimum and maximum ayanamsa obtained from 
Siddhanta rules. 


Both the Surya-Siddhanta and Siddhanta- 


1. Bhaskara did not believe in the liberation theory. For, as. 
has been shown by Chandrasekhara (VI.100), he has 
directed us always to add the ayanamsa and never to 
subtract it, a 

2. In common parlanac, we speak of the year being Saka 
1816, though in reality we ought to say the first day of 
Saka 1817. The facts herein discussed were collected 
sometime ago, and as it immaterial which year is taken 
for illustration, they are not altered to suit the current 
year, 


xliv forgra adr 


Siromani, the standard Siddhantas at present in use, 
give a rule to test the amount of ayanamsa by 
observation. It consists in subtracting from 12 signs 
the longitude of the Sun computed after the 
Siddhantas for the moment when the Sun crosses 
the vernal equinoctial point. Thus, on the 13th April 
1894, the Sun’s longitude for Greenwich mean noon 
was 23°32'7", while an almanac gives us 1°21'25” 
as the Sun’s longitude for the samé instant, making 
the ayanamsa 22°10’37”. It will be seen therefore 
that not withstanding the higher precessional rate 
of the Surya-Siddhanta, the calculated amount 
becomes less than the actual by nearly 1°16’, while 
the Grahalaghava makes it greater by about 39”. 


To come to the second method, viz. to find the 
true longitude of the initial point as defined by stars. 
Ali the modern Siddhantas agree in the statement 
that the longitudes of all heavenly bodies are to be 
measured from the Star Revati situated on the 
ecliptic. The star has been identified with Picicum. 
Now, this is a star of the fifth magnitude and is 
barely visible to the naked eye. The question is, 
why was this particular star out of the many situated 
on the ecliptic, - some of which are larger, - chosen 
for marking the beginning of the zodiac? The answer 
has been - and there is no doubt about the accuracy 
of the answer - that the vernal equinox happened 
near the star when the present system of 
astronomical measurement came into vogue. 


So far it is plant sailing. For, we can easily find 
the longitude of the star from the vernal equinoctial 
- point and at once get the required ayanamsa. From 
the Right Ascension and Declination of the star, 
§ Piscium, on the 13th April, 1894, we get 18°23’49” 


Introduction xlv 


as its longitude.’ This is however, less than the 
amount obtained above. It is clear therefore that 
either the star Revati is not § Piscium, or it did not 
mark the initial point. No doubt exists about the 
identity of the star, neither can we suppose all the 
Siddhantas false in their assertion. 


The latitudes and longitudes of thirty-four 
others stars are given in the Surya-Siddhanta. They 
were not measured in the usual way. But from the 
express instructions as to the method of 
measurement adopted, we understand that the 
so-called long tudes, Dhurvas, are the longitude of 
the Right Ascensions of the stars supposing them 
to be on the ecliptic, and that the latitudes 
(Vikshepas) are the distances, north or south, of the 
stars from the ecliptic, measured along the 
declination circles passing through the stars. Now, 
taking only the 27 stars of the zodiac, and 
comparing their reduced Dhruvas with their present 
longitude, we find ourselves confronted with a 
curious result.’ The difference between the recorded 
and the present longitudes is not the same for every 
star. Indeed, it varies from about 18° to 24°. 

Omitting Visakha, of which I am not certain, 
the mean difference of the longitudes of the stars 
of the first half of the zodiac, i.e. from Asvini to 
Chitra is 21°, while that of the stars of the second 
half amounts to 19° only. So, while the mean 


1. The modern Surya-Siddhanta’ gives 359°50’ as the 
longitude of the star Revati. This would make the present 
ayanamsa greater by 10’ only. 

2. I understand that Prof. Whitney has discussed the point, 
and regret that I have no access to his edition of. the 
Surya-Siddhanta at present. 


xlvi farera ator 


precession for all is about 20°, that for Asvini 
(é Arietes) and Uttara-bhadrapada (@Andromeda), the 
two stars on either side of Revati, is about 24’ each, 
The question becomes more perplexing when 
remember that Bhaskara, who certainly made a few 
corrections, has given in most cases the same 
longitudes as we have in the current Surya- 
Siddhanta. ' 


Our identfication of some of the stars may be 
doubtful.’ But taking all the star-longitudes into 
consideration, we are forced to admit that somehow 
or other there were errors of observation. Possibly, 
these errors were partly due to the rude means of 
observation, increasing the errors with the increase 
of the zenith distance of the stars, and partly to 
azimuth errors. One or all of the explanations must 
be accepted as true, as we cannot suppose that any 
one having the slightest pretension to practical 
astronomy, however rough the instrument might 
be, could make such gross errors in the simple 
measurements required. To take the.mean of the 
star-longitudes for a solution of our problem is, 
therefore, a wrong procedure, in as much as, we 
are entirely in the dark as to the weight to be 
attached to the determinations. We shall however, 
make use of them in another way later on, 


We now proceed to consider the third method, 
which consists in analysing the dates in which there 
was no ayanamsa. For this purpose, we require not 
only the dates but also the rates of precession 


1. Thus, if Asvini be identified with 8 Arietes and 
Uttarabhadrapada with y Fegasi, the amount of percession 
deducted from them becomes nearly equal and agrees 
with that obtained from Magha. 


Introduction x) vii 


assigned by the astronomers. We have already seen 
the various rates assigned by them. As the 
Surya-Siddhanta’s rate of 54 seconds per year is a 
close approximation to the rate known at present, 
let us take this first for consdieration. 

Apparently, the rate of 54 seconds is hihger by 
nearly 4 seconds than the actual. I say apparently 
for the rate makes the ayanamsa less, instead of 
increasing it in the proporiton of about 50 to 54. It 
must be therefore really lower than the true rate. 
To explain the anomaly we have to consider the 
Siddhanta year. The length of the sidereal year - 
the year used by us instead of the tropical year in 
use in Europe - is 365.25875 mean solar days 
according to the Surya-Siddhanta, and is thus 
"greater than the true length by 0.00238 days. Now, 
taking the Sun’s daily motion at 59’8”, we find that 
during the excess the Sun moves to the East through 
a distance of 8”.44 nearly. But the equinoctial point 
moves to the West. It is therefore clear that the 
precessional rate assigned by the Surya-Siddhanta 
is practically 54”-8°.44, or 45”.56 per year. It is for 
this reason that the ayanamsa, calculated from the 
Siddhanta, apparently higher rate, becomes less 
than the amount observed. Hence if we accept the 
Siddhanta’s length of the year, we should make the 
annual precessional rate 50” 24+8” 44 or 58”.68. It 
is remarkable that the rate of 45”’.56 per year is 
almost equal to the precessional rate in Right 
Asscension. Whether the Siddhanta writer meant 
the rate to be what we find, I cannot say, though 
there are certain reason favourable to our 
conjecture. The point may be illustrated by. taking 
other Siddhantas. Bhaskara’s year corfsists of 
365.25843 days, and is therefore longer by 0.00206 


xiviii frera cot 


days. Hence, accepting Bhaskara’s year, we should 
have 50° 24+7”.31 or 57”,55 as the precessional rate. 
Bhaskara does not state in his Siromani any rate 
deduced by him, but evidently supports Munjala’s 
rate of 59”.9. Moreover, his adoption of the rate of 
60” a year in his Karana-kutuhala leaves no doubt 
in our mind as to the rate he used. 


Similarly, Ganesa, author of Grahalaghava, 
makes the year of 365,25856 mean solar days, which 
is thus longer by 0.00219 days. He ought to have 
therefore made the precessional rate 50”.24+7”.86 
or 58”.10 instead of 60” as he has done. 


Chandrasekhara accepts the length of the year 
of the Surya-Siddhanta, and gives 57”.615 as the 
precessional rate (S.D.VI.75). This is just less than 
the rate we have assumed above by 58”.68-57”. 62 
or 1”06. I was surprised to find this close 
approximation, and could not but ask him the data 
from which he derived the rate. In reply, he said 
that finding the Surya-Siddhanta and the Siromani 
make the ayanamsa either shorter or longer than 
that observed, he was for some time in a fix about 

_the rate to be followed. Fortunately, while he was 
studying Jata-karma-paddhati with the help of the 
commentary called Jatakalankara_ written by 
Suryadeva some 800 years ago, he accidentally 

' found a passage in which the commentator recorded 
the ayanamsa as it was observed by him on a 
particular day of a particular year. This find itself 
is not less valuable than Chandrasekhara’s rate. He 
gives however, 22°26’ as the ayanamsa for the year 
we have taken for discussion. 

Munjala appears to be the earliest writer who 

has given the date of the year of no ayanmsa, as 

well as the rate of precession observed by him. He 


Introduction il 


wrote his work in Saka 854,' and the precessional 
rate assigned is 59”.9 in a year. We also learn from 
Dwivedi’s Ganaka-tarangini that according to 
Munjala, Saka 434 was without ayanamsa. Now 
from 434 to 854 Saka, there were 420 years, during 
which at the rate of 59”.9 per year, the ayanamsa 
had amounted to 6°59'18”. However erroneous the 
rate given by Munjala may be it will not be wrong 
if we take 6°59'18” (say 7’) as the ayanamsa in Saka 
854. We know, however, that the rate of precession 
could not have been greater than 58”.68 per year. 
Accordingly, the ayanamsa obtained above carries 
us back through 429 years from Saka 854, the date 
of Mujala’s work. In other words, we find that 
according to Munjala’s data Saka 425 was the year 
of no ayanamsa at the latest. From the ayanamsa 
obtained from Munjala and that observed in Saka 
1816, we note that the rate of precession amounts 
to 56”.8 in a year. 


The next work we take is Bhasvati by 
Satananda,’ which is still regard as an authority for 
the calculation of eclipses. He wrote his work in 
Saka 1021, and according to him the rate of 
precession is 60” per year. We also know that he 
regarded the Saka year 450 as the year without 
ayanamsa. Now, calculating the amount of 


1. The date 584 in the Ganaka-tarangini seems to be a 
misprint, though it occurs thoughout the short notice of 
Munjala, excepting the passage wher Pandit Dwivedi 
quotes from Munjala, makigh the date 854 Saka, adopted 
above. 

2. Satananda was born in Orissa in Saka 990 (i.e., 1068 A.D.) 
and wrote the Bhasvati in Puri in Saka 1021,{i.e., 1099 
A.D.) by adopting centmal system. Hence his name was 
Satananda as it was a pleasure to him to use centinals. 


1: frara adc 


ayanamsa in Saka 1021 in the above manner, we 
find that it was 9°31’ in that year. From this, 
calculating backwards at 58”.68 a year, we come to 
Saka 437 as the year of no ayanamsa. We also note 
that the rate of precession reduced from the 
ayanamsa in 1021, amounts to 57”.295 per year. 


In his Karana-kutuhala, Bhaskara has roughly 
given 11° as ayanamsa about Saka 1105. From this 
at the rate of 60” in a year, the rate assumed by 
him, we are taken back to Saka 555, and, at the rate 
of 57”.55 which we have found before, to Saka 423. 
We also note that adopting his observation, the rate 
amounts to 56”.624 per year. 


To take another example, we mention Ganesa 
who wrote his Grahalaghava in Saka 1442. 
According to him the rate of precession is 60” in a 
year, and Saka 444 was without ayanamsa. These 
premises lead us to infer that ayanamsa amounted 
to 16°38’ in Saka 1442, which at the rate of 58”.1 
carries us back to Saka 412, a-date which is the 
earliest of all that we have hitherto obtained. But, 
considering that the amount of ayanamsa reduced, 
compared to the present amount, makes the rate at 
low as 53”.4, we are lead to infer that his data were 

wrong. It is to be observed, however, that the rate 
of 58”.68 if adotped makes Saka 422 as the year 
without ayanamsa. 


We may almost guess the data from which 
Ganesa derived his rate. It is likely he accepted 11° 
as the amount of ayanamsa in 1105, as recorded by 


' 1. An error in observing ayanamsa is not uncommon. One 
instance of it is furnished by Mahadeva who recorded 
13°45’ as the amount of ayanamsa in Saka 1238 (Dwivedi's 
G.T.), thus making the rate since then 52”.5 in a year. 


Introduction li 


Bhaskara. From this he might have obtained the 
Saka year 444 as the starting year, and also the rate 
of 60 seconds a year, making the amount 16°37’ in 
Saka 1442, 

It remains to notice the data 421 Saka given by 
some minor authors. This is obviously based upon 
the Surya-Siddhanta’s with its annual rate of 54, 
making 20°55’ as the amount of present ayanamsa. 

Chandrasekhara has not recorded the data 
which furnished him the rate, knowing howerver, 
his ayanamsa and rate, and calculating backwards, 
we atrive at Saka 415. 


So far we have obtained the following figures: 


Sakabda Rate per year 


Munjala 425 56”.828 
Satananda 437 57.295 
Bhaskara 423 56.624 
Chandrasekhar 415 57.61 
Mean 425 57.09 


Having regard to the nature of the data ve 
cannot expect a closer approximation than that 
shown above. We may therefore fairly take the 
mean of the dates, as well as the rates. On account 
of obvious inaccuracy in the data of Ganesa the date 
and rate obtained from him cannot be rightly 
included. Neither will his date, if corrected increase 
the weight to be attached to. the mean to be 
calculated from the above figures. We might, 
however, include the data 421 Saka given by certain 
weriters. Indeed, it will be seen that dates of the 
Starting years are of two classes; one somewhere 
near 450 Saka, and the other, 421 Saka. But the 


lii fasta otct 


dates of the former class may be reduced to those 
of the latter class. It will be further observed that 
Munjala, the earliest writer of the set, makes the 
closest approximation to the mean, Satananda 
seems to have committed an error seeing that he 
assigns Saka 450 as the starting year. Madhava 
Misra, a commentator of his, makes the same 
remark and suggests that the Saka year 421 ought- 
to be taken incalculations.’ 


From what has been described above the Saka 
year 421 or 427 appears to mark the beginning of 
the fixed zodiac. It is difficult to prefer one to the 
other. The Saka year 421 is equivalent to the year 
3600 of the Kali yuga, and the fact of its being so, 
goes in its favour. Besides, it is the year in which 
Aryabhtta composed his work, a work which 
enjoyed a wide reputation. Lalla, whose Tantra 
Bhaskara condescended to criticised adopted the 
year 421 Saka, and the writer of modern 
Surya-Siddhanta evidently held the same view while 
writing the ayanamsa rule. 


On the other hand, the great popularity of 
Varaha-mihira leads us to suppose that the present 
system of the zodiac had its beginning in Saka 427, 
and I belive all the anomalies noticed before may 
be better explained by accepting the year. We have 
an authority for our view in the pancha-siddhantika 
itself. The often-quoted verse in which Varaha- 


1. The copy from which the remarks are made was printed 
in Benares in Samvat 1942. It is full of mistakes, but the 
sense is clear. It is curious to note that Satananda, while 
basing his work on the Surya-Siddhanta, gives a higher 
rate than what is given by the latter Madhava Misra tries 
to justify this rate by altering the rule. 


Introduction Hii 


mihira distinctly mentions the fact that in his time 
the summer solstice took place at the beginning of 
Cancer is a complete answer to the question we 
have been discussing. 


Dr. Thibaut, the learned editor of the 
Panchasidhantika, however, finds difficulty in 
accepting Saka 427, as the date of the composition 
of the work. As far as I can gather from his 
introduction to the work, his main objection lies in 
a statement of Amraja, quoted by Bhau-Daji, that 
“Varaha-mihira Acharya went to heaven in the 
509th year of the Saka kala, i.e. A.D. 587”. For if 
Varaha be supposed to have written the work in 
Saka 427, he must have lived to the good old age 
of eighty-two years after the composition; and 
supposing him to have written it at the age of 
twenty-years, he must have seen 102 summers. 


Seeing that Varaha lived long enough to write 
a very large number of works, there is nothing in 
“the statement intrinsically impossible. On the other 
hand, if the Saka year were not the epoch of his 
Karana, he defeated his own purpose. In deed, the 
idea of a Karana-writer using a date borrowed from 
some older Siddhanta, as has been supposed in this 
case, and thus representing a time other than that 
for which the work is written, is to say the least, 
self-contradictory. Then again as has been pointed 
out by Pandit Dwivedi, there is absolutely no proof 
of the validity of Amraja’s assertion. Dr. Thibaut 
admits that if Saka 427 be taken as the epoch of 
Varaha’s work, several facts, not otherwise 
explainable, become easy of explanation. All those 
considerations, together with tradition about 
Varaha’s time point to the conclusions we have 
already arrived at by discussing ayanamsa. 


liv faara 7fo 


Assuming then, that the zodiac at present in 
use was fixed in Saka 427, let us explain a few facts 
connected with it. First of all, we find that in 1389 
years, which have elapsed since the date general 
precession has amounted to 19°-23’-7”; while, had 
the Surya-Siddhanta’s year been in use throughout 
the Sun must have been in error by 3°-15’-30”, thus 
‘ making the ayanamsa 22°-38'-37” in Saka 1816 last. 
The amount, however, differs from the observed by 
28’,- a quantity too large to be neglected. On the 
other hand, if Ganesa’s length of the year be taken, 
the error in the Sun amounts to 2°-9'-54”, making 
the ayanamsa actually less by nearly 38’. It is 
remarkable that the length of the year assumed by 
Bhaskara makes the total 22°-12'21”, nearly the same 
as is observed.’ 


From the observed ayanamsa and the fact of its 
commencement in Saka 427, the precessional rate 
_ becomes 57”.45. This is lower than that obtained by 
us from the Surya-Sidhanta’s year, but nearly the 
same as we obtained from Siromani’s year. This 
discrepancy between the rate calculated from 
Surya-Siddhant and that found above can be 
explained by supposing that the Surya-Siddhanta’s 
year may not have been in use throughout the large 
interval of 1389 years, and that the rate of precession 
is not known so acurately as may be sufficient for 
the great length of time. The fact of Varaha’s Surya- 
Siddhanta giving a slightly shorter year (as shown 


1. The formula 50-2411 t+0001134 ¢? is adopted for 
calculating the general precession. See Chauvenet’s 
Astronomy. The precession constant appears to be a little 
too large, as is remarked by the author. A calculation 
made from Bessel’s constant allowing for its variation, 
renders the general! precession nearly 1’ less. 


Introduction v 


by Dr. Thibaut), makes no sensible difference in the 
result, Be the explanation what it may, it is to be 
observed that Chandrasekhara gives 22°-26’ as the 
observed ayanamsa, which is 15’ greater than what 
we have assumed. This fact shows that somehow 
or other, the length of the year in use was slightly 
iess than what we find it in the modern 
Surya-Siddhanta. 


At any rate, the vernal equinox in Revati did 
not mark the beginning of the existing zodiac. 
Ranganatha, a commentator of Surya-Siddhanta, 
supports us by saying that the equinox fell 
somewhere near Revati. For, the equinox fell on the 
star in Saka 498, and during the period since 
elapsed, the Sun has moved through an excess of 
3°-5’-29”, thus making the ayanamsa 21°-29’-18”. 
Even the Siddhanta’s position of the star leaves a 
difference of half a degree. So we must suppose 
that the star Revati was nearly a degree to the East 
of the initial point when the zodiac happened to 
commence its existing fixity. 

If any use is to be made of the recorded Dhruvas 
of the stars, it appears to me to be the most 
reasonable course to select those stars which are 
situated near the ecliptic. For, as has been already 
pointed out, the errors of observation by means of 
rude appliances will increase with star-latitudes. 
Accordingly, the following twelve stars situated 
within five degrees on either side of the ecliptic are 
given below for composition. 


Ivi faera ada 


Stars Longitude in Reduced Differ- 
Saka 1816 longitude ence 

Krittika (23 Tauri) 58°-14’ 38°-52° 19°-22’ 
Rohini 68°-17" 47°-56’ 20°-23’ 
Pushya ( 6Cancri) 127°-21’ 106°-0" 21°-21’ 
'Magha 148° -21' 129°- 19°-21’ 
Chitra! 202°-22 181°-23’ 21°-9 
Visakha” 

Anuradha 241°-45' 224°-31’ 17°-14’ 
Jyeshtha 248°-17' 230° -41’ 17°-36’ 
Purvashadha 273° -6' 254°-30 18°-36' 
Uttarashadha 278°-43’ 260° -18’ 18°-25' 
Satatara 340°-05’ 319°-41’ 20° -24' 
Revati 373°~-34' 359°-50’ 18° -34’ 


The mean of the differences is 19°-18’ carrying 
us back to about 433 Saka. If it were possible to hit 
upon the stars that were taken as fundamental stars 
for the measurement of the Dhruvas, we could have 
arrived at the correct result. We might fairly take 
the star Magha as one of them, since it is a star of 
the first magnitude, situated on the ecliptic, and 
otherwise important in Sanskrit astronomy. It 
would be seen from the precession of the star that 
the Saka year 430 is reached. 


As has been already pointed out, an allowance 
must be made in the amount of precession deduced 
from the recorded Dhruvas of stars. Still, the mean 
general precession furnishes approximately the date 
of their measurement. Dr. Thibaut has employed 
the method to determine the “beginning of the 
scientific period of Hindu astronomy”. From Prof. 
Whitney’s discussion of the star-longitudes given in 


1. Bhaskar’s Dhruva of the star is assumed. 


2. Iam not certain of Visakha. If it be identified with @ Libra 
the difference amounts to 22°-46’. 


Introduction Wii 


the modern Surya-Siddhanta Dr. Thibaut places the 
period somewhere in the fifth century A.D. It is, 
however, strange that he has omitted to discuss the 
bearing of the Dhruvas of the seven stars he has 
found in the old Surya-Siddhanta. Omitting Aslesha 
which I cannot identify with certainty, the mean 
general precession of the remaining six amounts to 
about 24°. This implies, then, that astronomy as a 
science began to be cultivated in India in the second 
century A.D. at the latest. 


We have already dwelt rather too long on the 
determination of the starting point. But considering 
the importance of the question in settling one of 
the fundamental preliminaries to any possible 
revision of on current almanacs, a word or two more 
on the subject may be excused. 


Chandrasekhara gives two methods for 
determining the starting point. One is based upon 
a verse of the modern Surya-Siddhanta, which he 
takes to mean that the declination-circle passing 
through the pole-star marks the junction between 
Aries and Pisces (XII.61). He further cites his 
authority for thus interpreting the verse from 
Brahma-Jamala. . 


I am inclined to believe that he is mistaken in 
thus interpreting the sloka of the Surya-Siddhanta, 
though I have not seen Brahma-jamala, nor have I 
an opportunity of doing so now. Taking, however, 
the rule for granted it will be seen that the Dhruva 
of the star was 21°-42’ in Saka 1816. But from the 
annual variation in the star’s R.A. the change in its 
Dhruva is nearly 3-3/4 minutes in a year. This fact 
alone demolishes Chandrasekhar’s view. | 


The other method suggested is an inverse 


Wiii fagra edoy 


application of the Sun’s place, calculated after the 
Surya-Siddhanta - (S.D.VI.89). Assuming his 
calculated place to be correct, it is easy to find the 
beginning of the starting point of measurement. In 
the absence of a better method, this remains the 
only feasible course of procedure, and it is by this 
method that we have got the present ayanamsa. 

It will be noticed (S.D.XII.10) that 
Chandrasekhara gives 5°N. as the polar latitude of 
Revati. The fact is, he has given up the Revati of 
our ancient astronomy for the simple reason that 
the Siddhanta Revati is hardly recognisable, and 
therefore practically useless. His Revati is not ¢ 
(zeta) but 7 (eta) Piscitum. How far this innovation 
will be acceptable to the public, remains to bé seen. 


Instances of giving old names to new stars are 
not rare, and this appears to be one of the main 
difficulties in identifying stars of different 
Siddhantas. For example, the star Pushya of 
Varaha-mihira’s Surya-Siddhanta must have been a 
different star from the one receiving the same name 
in the current Surya-Siddhanta. For Pushya of old 
appears to have been Proesepe of the Greeks, while 
modern Pushya is 6 Cancri. 

It may be useful to knwo the stars to which 
Chandrasekhara applies the Siddhanta names. For 
this purpose I got a chart of the stars made by him 
from which the following list is prepared. 


1. Asvini a Arietes 

2. Bharani 41 Arietes 

3: Krittika Tauri (Pleides) 

4, Rohini a@ Tauri (Aldebaran) 
5.  Mrigasira A Orionis 


Introduction 


lix 


6. Ardra a Orionis 
7. Punarvasu Geminorum 
8. Pushya Proesepe (in Cancer) 
9. Aslesha ~ Hydrae 
10.  Magha Leonis (Regulus) 
11. Purvaphalguni 6 Leonis 
12. Uttaraphalguni Leonis 
13. Hasta 6 Corvi 
14. Chitra &Virginis (Spica) 
15. Svati @ Bootis (Arcturus) 
16.  Visakha Libra 
17. Anuradha 6 Scorpionis 
18. Jyeshtha &Scorpionis (Antares) 
19. Mula ‘¥ Scorpionis 
20. Purvashadha 6 Sagittarii 
21. Uttarashadha  Sagittarii 
Abhijit Lyri (vega) 
22.  Sravana YAquiloe (Altair) 
23.  Dhanishtha  £ Delphinii 
24, Satataraka *¢ Aquarii 
25. Purvabhadrapada f Pegasi 
26. Uttarabhadrapada a& Andromeda 
27.  Revati —Piscium © 
Agni B Tauri 
Brahmahridaya Aurigae (Capella) 
Prajapati Aurigade 
Ilvaka Orion’s belt 
Lubdhaka Sirius 8 


Agastya Canopus 9 


Kratu Ursa majoris 
Pulaha Ditto 
Pulastya Ditto 
Atri Ditto 
Angira Ditto 
Vasishtha Ditto 
Marichi Ditto 


Apayavasu 5°N. of Spica; 5th mag. 
Apamvatsa 6°N. of Apaya; 5th mag. 
The polar longitude and latitude of 
Chandraskhara’s Revati , as given in the work, are 
slightly incorrect. In a letter to me, he gave 359°10’ 
and 5°30’N. as the corrected longitude and latitude. 
Accordingly, the precession of the star amounted 
to 22°20’-41” in Saka 1816. These correction were 
thought necessary by him in order that the observed 
ayanamsa might agree with the precession of the 
star as he ascertained it. But we cannot but admit 
that he has confounded ayanamsa_ (or 
sun-precession) with star-precession.’ For, it is 
obvious the amount of ayanamsa we observe by the 
Sun affects only the Sun’s place in finding moment 
of his crossing the equinoctial points, while the 
general precession of the stars remains unaffected 
by the slight increase assumed in the length of the 
year. But credit must be given him for his 
conssitency in the view, however wrong it may be 
in the light of the facts disclosed. 


Another important improvement made by 


1. An instance of an error of this kind is currnt in our Bengali 
almanacs in which the equinoxes are puttwo days later 
on account of the ayanamsa being taken at 20°55’. 


Introduction Ixi 


Chandrasekhara is in the Sun’s parallax. The history 
of his attempts at determining it is no less 
interesting than the results he actually obtained. 
The ancient astronomers of India were satisfied with 
taking for the parallax of each planet, 1/5th part of 
its mean daily motion. Accordingly, the Sun’s 
horizontal parallax was considered to be 3’56”, and 
that of the Moon 52’ 42”. With rough instruments 
at their disposal, the ancient observers could not 
but assign wrong values. But awkwardly enough, 
the parallaxes of the Sun and Moon come into every 
prediction of their eclipses. So while modern 
astronomy increases the distance of the Sun to 
something like 400 times the distance of the Moon, 
our ancient astronomers placed him no farther than 
14 times this distance. Chandrasekhara has removed 
him to a distance of about 154 times the mean 
distance of the Moon. 


; Chandrasekhara told me that before he got the 
parallax, he had passed many an unhappy day. He 
was then very young, but was anxious to know the 
Sun’s distance. He could not even imagined how 
the distance could ever be known. The ancient 
works were dogmatic in their assertions, and did 
not say a word about the method employed. By his 
failure in approaching the problem, he became 
disheartened. One day thus dejected in mind, while 
he was coming home, he noticed an image of the 
Sun projected through a narrow aperture in a fence 
of palm ieaves close to his house. This phenomenon 
well known to every tyro in physical science made 
him reflect, and he thought that he had got a 
solution of his problem. Could he but get the Sun’s 
teal diameter. This similar triangles on the two sides 
of the aperture, with their bases formed by the Sun 


Ixii faera ear 


and his image, would enable him to find the 
distance. He hastened home, but before he looked 
into any work for the Sun’s true diameter, he saw 
his error. For, was he not assuming the thing he 
wanted to find out? And his exultation was followed 
by despair. 

At ths stage the problem rested for several 
years, till he became acquainted with rules for 
calculating eclipses. He found that the parallax of 
the Sun assumed in the Siddhantas was too large 
to make predictions of eclipses correct. The anular 
and total eclipses, together with those in which the 
Moon just grazes the shadow, were his landmarks 
in the determination of the problem. He was for 
sometime in a sea of doubt. Perhaps the Siddhantas 
were wrong in the mater of parallax, as in many 
other matters. Perhaps his observations were not 
made with that degree of accuracy which was 
demanded by such problems. 


These questions were never out of his mind a 
single day through a long year. An accident 
favoured him. He was reading the Atharvan 
Upanishad, and was surprised to find that the Sun’s 
diameter was not 6500 yojanas as given in the 
Surya-Siddhanta, but 72000 yojanas. This gave him 
a fresh basis for calculation, and he was satisfied 
that this diameter did not shift his landmarks to 
any extent which he could detect. This gave 22” for 
the Sun’s horizontal parallax, and with careful 
calculation that of the Moon was found to be 5628”. 
Repeated observations left no doubt in his mind 
about the correctness of his figures. Besides, here 
was an authority from Sruti itself." Taking 72000 


1. Lastely he learnt that European astronomers find the 


Introduction ixiii 


ojanas for the true diameter of the Sun, the 
distance of the Sun from the earth was found to be 
between 105 and 106 times the Sun’s diameter. In 
other words, the distance of the Sun and the Moon 
are 9510 and 61 radii of the earth respectively 
(VIII.12, 13, & XIX.49). 


The introduction is brought to a close with 
another topic well-known even to the boys of our 
elementary schools, It is about the movement of the 
earth, which Chandrasekhara does not admit. It is 
curious no doubt to hear a man given to astronomy, 
maintaining with all seriousness an idea which 
mankind has learnt to repudiate since the days of 
Copernicus. And there are men who, talking glibly 
of the earth’s movements, thought that his 
calculations could not possibly come out right from 
such wrong fundamental premises. It is needless to 
argue the matter with those whose rudimentary 
knoweldge of mathematics did not enable them to 
understand relative motion and I would not have 
introduced the topic, had it not been made the sole 
criterion of the merits of this work. 

To such critics, I would suggest that centuries 
elapsed during which our forefathers and the 
forefathers of Europeans did nto even dream of the 
possibility of this firm and fixed earth’s spinnign 


Sun’s horizontal parallax to be aobut 8” and that of the 
Moon 56’40”. But he has found no reasons for correcting 
his figures. He says, the difference between the parallaxes 
of the Sun and the Moon amounts to 56’32” according to 
European astronomy, while he finds 56’6” giving results 
agreeing with observation. Now, if the difference were 
changed by 26”, an annular eclipse would-be changed in 
to a partial, a partial into an annular and a total into a 
“touching” one. 


liv faard ci 


like a top round its axis, far less of its rushing 
onwards with headlong speed. Chandrasekhara had 
not the advantage of our modern schools, and has 
not imbibed the spirit of taking such things on trust. 
His is a work of unaided effort, and it would be 
surprising if he, along with the schoolboy, talked 
of the movements of the earth, On the contrary, a 
miserable Odia translation of a Bengali compilation 
from English popular astronomy made him a 
confirmed believer in the stationary condition of the 
earth. The arguments put forth in the book to 
estabish the movements of the earth may be 
sufficient to satisfy those who do not try to realize 
the matter, but unfortunately were not convincing 
to a man who struggled hard to reconcile the new 
idea in all its bearings with his own observations. 


Indeed, the translation and another of like 
nature were the only sources from which 
Chandrasekhara learnt something of western 
knowledge. They may have so far influenced him 
as to modify his ideas about physical astronomy, 
vague indications of which will be seen in certain 
passages of this work,’ but had hardly any effect 
upon his as regard mathematical astronomy. The 
reader will find him doubtfully speaking of the 
satellites of some of the planets, of the proportion 
of land and water on the globe, and the latitudes 
of one hundred and eight places derived from 
modern Odia maps and other sources. In these he 
sees no reason for disbelieving what is actually 
observed. But where are the observed proofs of the 
movements of the earth ? 


1, See V, 79 for possible satellites, XI.40 for phases of 
planets; XVII. for force of gravitation, & c. 


Introduction 2 Ixv 


To controvert the theory of the movements, he 
has divided his arguments to the contrary into three 
classes. The movements are opposed to Sastric 
authority, to common sense, and to logical 
reasoning. To do him justice, I believe he would 
not hesitate a moment to modify his views, could 
he get the modern theory in all its details, He has 
thus rendered a service to us by compelling us to 
think. The same service was rendered by the heroic 
John Hampden who a few years ago essayed to 
prove that the world, instead of being a globe, was 
in reality as flat as a table. There is a tendency on 
the part of mankind when it has established any 
doctrine, to assume that it cannot possibly be 
disputed and so in time we even forget the 
arguments by which the truth was established. 
There is thus a need for these exceptional.and more 
or less original heretics who challenge our accepted 
doctrines. 


But the peculiarity of his theory is that though 
the earth occupies the centre of the universe, the 
planets do not revolve round it. They revolve round 
the Sun, and the Sun taking all the planets along 
with it revovles round the earth (V.6). The Moon 
is Of course a satellite of the earth, and makes no 
difference in the old and new astronomy. But where 
could he get the theory of the planets describing 
ovals round the Sun ? It is not imported from the 
West, but is a direct corollary from the elements of 
the planets themselves. For if we plot the calculated 
places of a planet with respect to the Sun, the former 
will be found to describe something like an oval 
round the latter. 


Indeed, I believe that this view of the star 
System was held by our ancient astronomers. We 


Ixvi | Fagra ado 


cannot suppose that they could be so ignorant as 
not to see this simple deduction. The late Pandit 
Bapudeva Sastri gave other arguments in support 
of this doctrine of the ancient astronomers (See his 
pamphlet Bhubhrama-Vichara), though I am 
inlcined to think that the Sastri went rather too far 
in drawing the inference that our astronomers 
supposed the earth to be a planet of the Sun. 


This system, formulated a new by our author, 
forcibly reminds one of Tycho Brahe, and bearing 
in mind Chandrasekhara’s life, we may regard him 
as the veritable Tycho of India. Like Tycho our 
author belongs to a noble family, which had for a 
series of years claimed independence. Tycho’s early 
-education was in Latin, and what Latin is to Europe, 
Sanskrit is to India. Young Chandrasekhara was 
early acquainted with the sacred lore of Sanskrit. 
His knowledge was so far advanced as to enable 
him to compose verses in it, as Tycho could in Latin. 
Tycho had been destined ot lead a soldier’s life, but 
his uncle who adopted him made him study law. 
While he was so engaged, his attention was first 
drawn to astronomy by the prediction of a solar 
eclipse in 1560 A.D. Like him Chandrasekhara 
received his education from his, uncle, and the same 
search after the unknown led our Indian Tycho to 
penetrate the mysterious destinies of men with the 
help of astrology. It is said that all sciences had 
their origin in wonder, and it is preeminently true 
of astronomy. Nothing but star-gazing could have 
excited the simple yet noble utterances of the Vedic 
Rishis, and star-gazing has given birth to a 
Hipparchus and a Galileo, and may we add, to the 
Tycho of Europe and the Tycho of India ? The 
European Tycho had Copernicus before him and 


Introduction Ixvii 


the long ascendancy of the Almagest was fast 
coming to a close. Chandrasekhara’s Almagest was 
Surya-Siddhanta, and his Copernicus was Bhaskara. 
Both Tycho and Chandrasekhara detected at an 
early age discrepancies between observation and 
calculation. Tycho held and Chandrasekhara still 
holds the same views about the solar system. The 
Copernican theory was before Tycho, and 
Chandrasekhara knew the theory of Aryabhatta, 
and we may add, heard not only of the diurnal 
rotation of the earth propounded by the renowned 
Aryabhatta, but of the annual revolution of the 
earth round the Sun from modern Geography. But 
both declined to accept the new theory on almost 
precisely the same grounds. Tycho rejected the 
Copernican theory chiefly for two reasons. “One 
reason,” says Professor Young, was that it was 
unfavourably regarded by the clergy, and he was a 
good churchman. The other was the scientific 
objection that if the earth moved round the Sun, 
the fixed stars all ought to appear to move in a 
corresponding manner each star describing annually 
an oval in the heavens of the same apparent 
dimensions as the earth’s orbit itself, seen from the 
star. Technically speaking, they ought to have an 
annual parallax.” Chandrasekhara is equally 


1. The fact that the stars should have parallaxes if the earth 
revoired around the Sun was known at a very early date. 
Tycho Brahe observed them in order to discover whether 
they were sensibly fixed in the sky or not. So far his 
observations went they did not change their positions 
during the year. He inferred from this that the earth 
Temained fixed and that the Sun moved. His error was 
due to the fact that his observatons were not sufficiently 
accurate to show the slight displacement which the stars 


Ixvii faera adr 


supersitious wit Tycho, a staunch Hindu to the 
backbone. How can he disbelieve the Sastras ? And, 
besides, “the stars do not shift their places 
according to the seasons of the year.”" 


The parallel drawn between Tycho and 
Chandrasekhara is close so far. But it fails when we 
remember that Tycho had the benefit of a university 
‘ education, of the patronage of kings, and what is 
more important, that he had instruments as delicate 
as he could desire. Chandrasekhara has spent his 
life among his native hills, has seldom been five 
miles away from his little village and did not receive 
any encouragement from anybody in respect of his 
work. Tycho had the friendship of Frederick II of 
Denmark who gave him an estate in Norway; “a 
pension of £400 a year for life, a site for a large 
observatory, and 20,000 to build it with,” and 
philosophers and statesmen and kings came to visit 
his observatory and dined at his table. 


And what did our Indian Tycho receive ? He 


have. His observations were made shortly before the 
invention of the telescope and he could not measure the 
minute angles through which the stars were displaced. 
In fact, there distances are so great and the parallactic 
displacements are so small that the 19th century was well 
advanced before astronomers succeeded in finding any 
stars with measurable parallaxes. 

1. Many of his arguments are directed against a 
misconception of the new theory. For instance, he argues 
that if the earth be rolling like a wheel, then it ought to 
move only 12,000 Krosa per day; for that is the length of 
the earth’s circumference. But you say, its daily motion 
is 8,00,000 Krosa. A stone whirled round has always the 
same face turned towards us; how can there be an 
alternation of day and night by the rotation of the earth, 
and so on. 


Introduction _. bdx 


met with sneers from his equals in position, because 
he shook off the aristocratic prejudice against 
star-gazers and fortune-tellers. He had no one to 
encourage him in his pursuit, and no notice was 
taken of his work. Our Government could only 
confer upon him an empty title which he had never 
coveted. Geniuses are liek declicate plants, never 
plentiful anywehre and depend upon tender care 
for growth and development and fertility. Let me 
therefore hope that the past neglect of his 
countrymen may yet be compensated, and that 
better days may yet dawn upon our old and crippled 
observe of heavenly bodies. 


Jogesh Chandra Roy’ 


1, The above article reproduced is the introduction written 
in Feb’ 1899 at Katak (presently Cuttack) by Late Professor 
Jogesh Chandra Roy to the book ‘Siddhanta-darpana’ of 
Samanta Chandrasekhara, published for the first time in 
devanagari script. 


faqa Weil Ao 

often 

Tfora sat Vlas 

fears eu gaa stats cata 

INTRODUCTION 

9, Teo 

WMA THIS - SHlct AU 
ATTA g 
wheat Zo 
Whitt Saal at Saar fTa 22 
as feared a arian feats ard 23 
qe & eo Ff Shara gu 
fagrd Tet STR areal at FT ge 
ferera Aart gs 
feels 37a eA 
fast sea ca 
ud ait sat unit & fava 20 
Tae a oe tt sata 22 
Tash HI WATT 22 
SHAT as BT HTT BT 23 
wet & CT VER 26 
ad ak soe art 4 
afe ante gan are SOT 

PAC Fe 2 
ad & yan atk eet faa 22 
AA, Was, SSE AAT 
fea ante Be 

da alk sta fer 32 


bedi . frat ator 


fawa Weiles Ao TS Ho 
Oia Aled Waal Al APT 319 
en ai fea suis sry ar ATA ‘yo 
Ole sey S SIT 
a Bl Flt ¥2 
aan & fer & aus ante OE 
Ue 3teq ¥& 
wT sale TARA Hee ME 
aan a fea Gara BA We We rr) 
WT WM sie fase Gy 
sit PTAA Eta Qu 
TI OR Br Tita GE 
ferita want - seer anfe ar aula  QB-RE 


Ue, TY, Yew HI A TM Ae 
Ie VAS wi BRT wT kg 
FT, We, VT H AeA, el H Aer 
FM TK WT HBT TTT 
aed 8 aera fer 
Tel & H fea 
are Ara rarer 


: 
i 


ey AU, gts Were g3 
wag ait are dar ate fest & 

TET ITT eX 
aaraenta aaa fea gu 


fava Tat Lxxiii 


fare FAIS Ho Ges Ho 
wal at ef ata gE 
wT fer sae FereAT Re 
fea & aaa a9 
aa wm & fea ante a9 
TAM TS HUM AT aT RL 
Del Bt ea VaR al ahs, ax 

a Sed 3 Wa Ve 
sit sorata eat uy 
STHER ra 

Tara WHI — TET TE 28-32 

nea Fe & fet ofa wear Gat 

fea Ratert . g 
arerfor Ff ucn for aA aT 

ats BAT g 
an afeofa 23 
We afeaia gu 
ag afaata VE 
AE ay Hl Wea Ta WT let 2 
ay anftrata & ant F gaa Aa g\9 
Wetsh aaferata 2o 
sre & wel & ay Tee 

ane Fare Bz 
Fea Te & Wve sale Garay RE 
afvacat an Fota YA 
aed aacer ar oka 2 
Hel stan IR 
sreqa aife gaat I zo 
afd Wa & aifia af yo 
aa ast & afaata Bg 
wa anfe ais daca & : 

RT SALT OS 


arte ant & atferafa ME 


Ixxiv Reger ator 


fang Vas To JSS Ho 
fa ax Rarer at dfarca fafa ¥9 
BAT ER A seat Me 
Zaq 3 Aa Ko 
BIR ara A vei AT a 4g 
aI ara A ay uy 
ohio a Uae uu 
fst sar repr fea Ky 
Sue Teel fer H Te ya ante ud 
Hated aa Ure H Ys Ge 
Ta aa & 4 ara fread 92 
af a 8 8 aM fart 9 
BR Aen \93 
Wea Fa MTS Ares HH oy 
ait spray ef isig 
STEER 9g 
ade WHIT ~ Wei Se ea aa VER 33-%g 

ZUR GEER & ford yea 1 A g 
4 afer ea 2 
a fafa 3 
HEY CAL % 
SRR a E 
SUI Val ae is 
34 fafa é 
an sata g 
HA A Re 
WR Ud Ht an afd Hl ave 23 
SUI Tel A Ae AER gu 
SE TET a a ewe ae kg 
we H aca sh Hed aa 

Hl A WERT gC 
Gant ard & fora Wate aT AZ a 


WATT et PTA Rg 


frat tar & sly BI Hl AT 
Hean Ve Gee Parent & fara gas 
Gh aut at fea frarers at fate 
fea Tora A are grt als 
Usk O ee als feat & ea 

Tel at afer 


HEAT & ALAR Fel Bl UI safe 
SoH WEA TA HATTA OA SH MOTTA 
al sora Raa 


ST Fa S Fe He HT Ss Tea a 
are ante ar aa & ares yet 
aa Ufa 


Tifa & sa wR Ae Bik vA 


sn fF ay A) ro 


GRADO 


faa 

aa qa ante al att are 
SAH ALAR Aha A Het 
TS ST WAT 

as ah dard 4 ae a chet 
Stet aa a ae 

am silt fara we 4 eit ofifa 
Tel Hl Water SRT srreaedoy 

WS Hl OT AT OT 

wx smfe FI Ud & aqaR faag 
aay faery 

as TER asl Vp! Ala 

ta +x Al a Far at a 
qaftard & sya PpeAe 
SH, TA TAM Ht HT are 
TITS Bl ST AAT 

SAT Ht BT 

fet 

2% Wel Al PM Fl AAT 


qa at alfa a sie St SIT 


AT, 48, WH AS AT 
Pe aca ee 


(real 1 GIA 
HER Fe & STAT 

a et HI Tea 

Ope Weeq dal Saal Tif 


far at Ixxvii 


faaa” Weleh To 7S Ho 
Ta Vs I Spe AM AC) 
aa fagrd cal ane e-tfa 

” ag st reufife £e 
aa fag a atefa Rok 
vite ofet Frater Rok 
Wel sife a As UR Log 
rel qa Ue So afeha RoR 

forgra & Wat 
as eR 
Bhd Sik Wee GE Sl HA VV 
ana ak qu & dean Rv 
weal at pe wala Frarert 282 
Trey, Fey, we set ht TTT RKR 
Tine ale a am aN a HRT RR 
Spe ae 8 ae ae Prarert RG 
Ws Gal a ara fafey VEY 
Fa TH ANT HI HS Het R192 
Tore &h fee He & Ud GUS R98 
us Get & Ala Prareray Rco 
ee ah aa Ufa ar facta g cis 
ae hel rarer Le 
SSA SH SEA AM BSH NCR 
aad ax Tha BSR 
fat anfe ar anreret R00 
fafa, are al ats ara at AMT WAT 208 
Sel Ufa & sea Bo 
ait sorare taf BWV 
STG R22 
OSS VRIT - Ga Cant 196-20K 

faare are H gen dftat a scartk 
WT farg ante Fare & 


CI Ufers den feet Gear & 


bowiii Regal for 


faa WeiteE To TS Ho 
WTR tet & Frag ge 
ax ot Ben aid Vy 
Wal Hl Bet aa Te Foray 23 
Wad fatagai qenmt =X 
Pian snfe a aR IC) 
eye yen fara 3% 
oh oH & frag 33 
afasy A as ata t ae “9 
a arraral Peet Aa aT ST AC 
Gar ara PARTE Ke 
Wel at Asher He Ez 
fafa anfe ar aa are &e 
yianee, sqqISa, fanusa 93 
sated Od & WT ok 
Sa area Fae 98 
ofr WHat é8 
UME & He eR 
aes al a I faa 63 
Orn ERI ators qa TM Be Ys A 
SAS Al BT ae 
sorta cr fot @2 
aig 
ated Aft vA 
Brey areq iter 
farsa Zoo 
at oor freaTerat Loz 
feqata a AM 203 
Ferears & COT Spe shed Zou 
MAING Cel Ke 20k 
Tel & aH AEN ST AA BRE 
wet ater fer Ro 


Tt Het S Gea AAT 
UTS TS 
STAM hl ar fafa 
Waa Ela . 


3, farpatferenry 
TAA THIN — Bish BAT aA 


wee OAT are fee fora 


Br Ta ak fe Hal WHER Ko 


wren ag 


STI HF HUSH, ST, HATA safe NR 


ara ai caer, ate, gre are 
Tot Fare 

BaNISe 

Ora Hale a pe wa safe 
AM Yep AT HAT BA 

FU ATA 

HAHA BVT 

SRT, SONS FT GTA FAL 
See] 

wid ale Bl apd HA 
AYE Het H GA at Aas 
ora a ana frat 

IUD TATE TA BE 
Wah a aa IT 

ant qa a uta A aaa Prarerat 


209-8 


Ixxx 


fast eles Ao 
Rafa deat STEN BERG 
SSM VARIG — VR TEU aA 
ae sik ae wet at BET g 
Ya ae a fara oar 2 
Sah Wea ik Spe TT eh fare 84 
Te aR BRE at ze 
TA A TAS a4 
a 4 Ww 
FS PUT SH STATE HE aT teh 32 
Ten al feet 33 
auld B fer AeA 3% 
wa aT faa aR at fee By 
faara sik WK SATA AMA Xo 
ren a feafeat at states 4 
qa fag 7 KR 
30 Wd Fel, IP ac AG 
Sa TAA, TH BI TCA SET &o 
are fet A 4 
werd Fa A ace RR 
HAST, HU TSA RS 
saa We 
fafira eat ar 9% 
WEN H ah Ye ce 
Rafa ak STE Co-ed 
AEM WenTeT — Be TET aU 
aa mem & fed ores g 
AA TaaTet % 
fafa om, afr area, eta RR 
auch, fafa a Ep]e AT can 


(aad tard) fafa & aa, Waa =—-Yo 
qdanrey, faa sald cat 


fread wt 


TS Ho 


LIB-VVE 


VHO-RER 


faqa Yel To 
Bla FH IT zo 
ar Ua A aaAT 3x 
an at xu 
Ope TA Bq 
HAE % 
TU, AAT HTeA uy 
ara at fee GR 
aaa WG Il BIA RC 
TSN Hel Bl WA, ataghg aN) 
Fafa ait STH L6-€% 
Zum yaRIST — Ufterg aula 
Ofer Ft Bev g 
wig AK Be, arg Ura HI Te 2 
Ta Fa Hf fea, Aas HTS Ft TMT TAT WAR 
Brat Hier alt Hea Dent aX 
Wes aM, SeaHteTH Ae 23 
Wager ah aed ae 32 
aa ven & fed fags was Bu 
TSN HA Hl AV Ae BR 
vata ait STaET 3U-3¢ 
TRIER WERT — Tear GOH 

afa a3 atk warm g 
Ube sik qa aie A ae ak Te eT | 
Tel at ford Ga BAL sah Aa 

tH fe A Bz 
Ad Uh Bl TAG, faers aM ST MR ee 
Tart ae, aoa, sata Ws 
faery arerargaay, Ya Wa 3% 
BES Hifa, e, Tdrad ae, 

Td WA aT 39 
an Fel a fara ¥2 


frre farce Satz ats Ko 


bood 


VERVE 


90-209 


boodi 


faea a ¥eles Bo 
Upe fara AM, ARR fara, effaqtgq GY 
al & wa £8 
ata site ar ata, aaa 92 
We TT ale, qa Ya Gara wy 
we Ah aT sel Ht ala oy 
BRI Bite al fan, Fe AAA Ald Ro 
FAS BIH GA AM ; og 
afar aa - 220 
Rafer site seater RR-LRZ 
BEG THT — TE BAN AAT Sar aT 

aera ST ATT g 
aerat ar faers is 
Aeral Ht ART WET gy 
aaa a sree - can 
aprarn at fete ge 
anrant a fase, gern at Rafa 23 
ane a feata 3 
areata a feta MQ 
H at fata uo 
UTA, BTA Site AAT g&Y 
Fa wT, eH eH VES faery sife tk 
aaa aera Ff ata 4, fata 

wart & sya 9g 
aeafa Aa go 
fora Fe ura jaa, Ufeot wae eck 
aaa, Fa ERT fare of RQ 
Eid ae Sta R&-89 


aemaaas Te AA Hl BLA BT BA 


Gat sea ak ares, saat fen, cH Te 
arate, HI ai Aa 20 
ws a faery, ae ar ar sik fe 8 


RL6-2O% 


FOU-RVVE 


fava gat boodii 


fava Wile Ho YS Ho 
TIA fachent & STAR Bea BLT AA IN Ys 
Um Sle FI Fea BN SHA, MA 
BIC WY BTA 3 
wpe wid Hata Aa 
ag Aaa SSI BET I A, 7 
fegnrsct WK Ko 
mI Fa Fa 
ial eS AC) 
ay 9 ae Wa WN seh 
aa es aaa sila Gd 
ary art ae al at AK 
Se St TAT 193 


TH HH A Up TCH INT TT CR 
SCA TET HI, FS TK YH FH WHIM C¥ 
Tafa sik STTER  E4-o& 

AGEN NTT — ~ aagpirata aia Bo--2Zo 
ear a fas e. 3 
aaa Sean @ ae ax a 

Pct Sea SET R 
are aR Ten fea, as ATT eT 
STAta ATS, FT Ah AH SA SHI SRT «kk 
SI AM Mea ACA Bik ICH, 
aa Te AAR Re 
@ qa aa Zo 
sa we fara ae 
asics 
Ware wn. ar Fota, fear anita ¥o 
TX He FH AT AM Tela Bu 
VFA A A, Hes ATA 4g 
a Jedi os ae Sealant cat rt 
aot aa fas arr at feafa, sd : 
Y WeMz GR 


Ixxxiv 


fare ee Yet Wo 
waa qT x aT 
Shania ie aja ” 
raf aike sudan BL-ER 
UREN WH — AeA ala 
faye g 
aafa car ardtaa st aeaaat 2 
SAH TARY FA ATA & 
ae ar frre gi 
Td ike TY ae, As TH 
ala HI BIRR 22 
pita ata & fort saa eat a4 


af, Ha sik feefa sé fen a By 


AA BT Hl TS Ge, at Ft, 


aA “3 
Ud ERI Ae I AG, 29 a A aaa «4 
ee ae Slo any 
8 aa wah 4 
POTS AT ST PT TMT Tah YT GF 
faSrd Ta TA AL Fl HT aC) 
WAX Wa Hl Ife, Ten Ht Ba 
Su Sig ete Ee 
tafe den STHER Gok 
%, 
GIST Weng - TT aura 
Area sik faq g 
Tet AA HT eT 
Tre Foret dare & ade Franny 
NST TPT 82 
qhafors Aa gig 
ate aa 34 Aa 4 


BI-VVS 


BWE- VOD 


fava yat boocv 


faqa . Beil Bo WS Ho - 
yd farara an ard ag aa 3¢ 
Ole soH, Feat HI AT Ta io 
saat Cats, aE “2 
AA, 8, TH TM Hhahes WEA, 

qa wa ufs %& 
SAT Het led, cA AA 

H Sra Hla 3 
ad ara areay crear, af 

fafay art GE 
BT, WH BOTT — &e 
WAHT FE Hal A BIA, Ue FR &2 
Wl H STG Hl BT gg 
We sik ant a of stat AC 
AMI FA, AS Bl SAA BET gC 
WK A HM WH TMT Brats HFT we 
Tela, He: site aa 93 
aly, firg fer, ran fer 194 


yea site ad Fa are Fa TT A AA 9G 
a AM Fl BAK, Aly, ata Tat safe wie 


Sale Gal STAEK LO-R 
TAIN wee — ater fear oT QUC-RLL 

geal at feat fara A ach den 

We TAA SAT AANA g 
Jeat ar Ta yaRTy & 
Qeal at fae 3 
THATS Tal Waa BI feast Sark 
CHER & tR7 a sik 

we asa A Se . 22 
quer site ata wa 8 yest at feerha 2 
Yeal Wao at AUS BR 


ee eer %R 
WI We Ht ANS SS 5 


boxvi 


faa Beh Ho 
aad dra strand Sn He ThA a VS xc 
yea & Shree el WHO FI VST Ku 
thre Tifa Sik aia ga Pea 


ea 
acid St gq 
fen Sa a EC 
ae ait ary net & ater 7 We 
Os HT At 93 


SY WAT SN Tel Hara A fawAaT wy 
WR Teas TT SRT TA = — ls 


WE THT Hl SET HT 98 
Wey a & ace BE a SH 
ax AA A TST =. Se 


qe fa at HEA a aT AMG ce 


We, Ud AK Vi Saat aT fis ey 


a2 Del Hr afas We Ta Yea IRA Gs 
yea ai ara Fel F Tea 

Q eal ¥ ary QoR 
AK WSa HT IR AH Zou 


28 Wl SER a Bl He 
WANA Tea eT R2z 
a ik ete he chad & ee et 
SRT Goat ite el Cea et LAAT 8X 
a ain 
83¥ 
Wash PITA Hl TUS 232 
qa Far Se AT BT TT HA x2 
qty cre &n a 31g TT 
SKU Ae axe 


fra aver 
Js Ho 


fase Tat bowwvii 


fsa Wels Ho Yes Ho 
Seat citer a wre aa 
- ORT @Uga Aet KL 
eet fear cen al hfe Tel HT MATT LG 
fafa ak SoHE RRO-RER 
TOE TT — SPT crabs 3 2Qo-3R9 
ARIAT A SB ea AT g 
ee ee 2 
ma a ate , 2 
aa ante a eaey RR 
ae He FH aly 32 
HAG At SHA Bu 
Wa sit aa aT BC 
aft Fae ak era faa %G 
ary ak arn af fata $C 
aire Ha at freq apes re 
SoH Mora Wk 
WS FA KR 
SoH TA aT are gx 
qe ale at facta &e 
fears FI ScTeLTT 92 
Saal Era AK steve fay ia 
Sah TRTaTAT eC) 
Saal aT oh STAT iad 
ale art feerfa ee: 
Ud hl ere | éé 
ary te sik aR | Re 
SAT AAT BY ey 
ai BPR site a 
ay Fe A Ae a ala 200 
aa 3k ara a fay RoV 
sate ait Cen ute Gok 


faya eA Rok 


bexxvili 
faut 3etlas Fo 
fer ay golg 
wie Rog 
TAVIS ATA Zoe 
TEAL Hag H Are, Tera ae 223 
aaa sik offer SA R43 
Wes Gel Aa AGH guy 
Set Sh Bret Bt SS Het Buu 
are at afr Que 
at Ad Quy 
WA SAL Yes Het ST SCTE " Que 
TAS CR ATA TH TM TAT tS 
sae He a Tel HA gio 
Yedt I FAH Go Ss BAT g194 
fafa sik sade RI9G-ROl9 
Saag WaT — ate Te Canter aUta 

fafaa gfe ar aR g 
@ We aa ale a 

3 
mated paths aft % 
Fel tt he TH Bl HAT & 
HAT HT VWs é 
Shy Hen a as A ee 
ite Fe. ene: 
Wey Ope aut Re 
Wel at efra ate Prearetar 23 
Tifa Hl ASA AA Be 
Tet Bt cet AA TA 
aH cot Ta 28 
are oftere fates # ores, 32 
as Wha Hr BROT 3u 


Tal & ae a a atm Si Bp! Tha 39 
Sal WA & Wa fas ast 3 


YS Ho 


BRC-BBC 


fava Fat 


faqa Fils Ho 
ase geiwdaaat ys = (xy 
safe Ta A Bes site sar fara, 

HA ST A ‘9 
PR BAT SH fara a Brey BT KY 
nant al Poty WG 
ARI fare Hr ER 4S 
wig ore a qa Ida aie Ht Hay. vo 
Us WH TM al Vig at fal 9G 
ada @ Sea ait Hexa aM 98 
aa ax at BAT ar RK sie St Hag co 
‘Ty i Has 63 
geal at airearg ST & fer 

HH c& 
fafra ga tis 
afs dim} aqan vad al gzaa Ce 
ada We a a aed Fea athe 

a ae eq 
SoH Sa Ba Re 
TURE THR H VGA at aE APM = —- oo 
we gfe ahr ar Fora Rog 
ofe dim % wa a Sar RoR 
aratt Fa @ are fea, ava 

ain ad & ofa 208 
aad ante at ofe diet U2y¥ 
STATS HAW FT ATA RRR 
aH SA Wal BT VSI R20 
FS YM a I ATT R22 
Rife aear STaE RBWE-LA 

ahaat wears - wa aoa 
GA ht Maya g 
al Wat & et Ta 33 
Us Ht Sra Ten Gat ai Adiaat_ 3 


YS to 


33¢-34e 


Read ator 
faa Falh To JSS Ho 


fatn Sydae yr st wae ¥ 
WAtet Be Hees & 
Frato atk ea é 


aan sar sik fates Fa SSA gz 
arg aera sie Gah Fa aT ay 


a weral SI =a gE 
RAM AAA CATAL 29 
Saal FER SUI ATS ART «=o 
rates Fofa 22 
farts Ga ssa TAT 23° 
fata Fa Ware Tet 219 
PHA TA He AGATA TAT RR 
We Aaa Sit Fae Ala 30 
can ain @ eaftas Hi feta 32 
at § oat Fata tat 32 
BANVSe AM SAUSS Hl AT 33 
Tet Fea at Paar ay 
dard Gets TaN Tre WAT 38 
Wels Fa 8 Us Ha Ta $2 
Ta TE He Fa WY 
We AA Gea Hf AHI AAG 
A Sah SSt IT “E 
yw at fafa ho 
art vel at Fafa 4a 
aa & ani sik ae TAT 43 
We SA BH Bet A AC) 
Te am & fora afe RR 
aerat Ff areata at aifies HAT & 
afe gar a fafa &3 
qaen A ae ca a fate 4 
SFI TER S RAN FATT gg 


teal aan am ufa Saar 92 


favre 


faqa ales Wo 
ale Wa WE 
am ame aT aig 
Tics Fa 92 
AM a 62 
SHA FE a Tea St et SAAT 63 
Sea We St Sas aT i 
gaa oda aif a a ST éR 
site & ada anfe ar yar ey 
ame aa ei9 
tad AS FA TM SAT WATT 200 
Wet WAT A ATT AT STAAL Qo’ 
Wet WA a Fa Ro 
Tet Hl TE el HEAT ER 
Taft den STE PRR-RRVB 
Wenla gr TeRTgT — ATeht TET 
WeaAt BI F area ats 2 
sed 2 
wR aan feqAA A Se 3 
We & SLA STI AKT ¥ 
fea Ua hr Bre Fh q 
fafa Carat F fea uh a ig 
ea an aga at ferue 8 
aa a fea e% 
fra fet a 
wa ak Set A Ve 
Ufrat & ot F ae 2o 
Tle WATT & ENT SISA 22 


aol Bh Ue war fear Sait 23 
Tet al Ger Ufa St Aa HI GSA Ws 
Tifa ara 2 
Vet HAR Tel Ht HAT HE A FIZ 0 
wel ait afta ata at 


B4R-3Se 


Fergra ator 


fara Wilh To Yes Ho 
Wa frari & arqan rer ea, 
Sa SRT 32 
AM AAT Hl YEA BLA F fer 
BT WT a8 
MCR Ue Aaa Yo 
See STINT uo 
TASK sR wT aie a fale ae 
afer FH yet yils at fates uy 
STAT Hl TAA \go0 


Weck Frater at fafa vis 
Spray a yet Ww oH fats 63 
ary al Ff et at TA Lu 
USA as c& 
epee & fera vitcra aC) 
WAAVSeA WAT Hl FEA RXo 
ae ay ae HOt BRR 
PS h PUR Het Fl SI R24 
aiana & fart daa BRE 
HAM Bl Bet A 

(aa 3ik icra) Rzo 
ad fared a af wan R20 
Spe Med & UN WET SI ATT e¥2 

POM BSR oa 
UR Aa a wfanvee fa HAT ooxy 
shia BH SA HT ERT RY 
Te Has AER 243 
qennse F area ak stata 

ate St BG Quy 
DS aiet I AA ate 2192 
Hen at ee ar SITTT 222 
Sl aera ar ICT ean 
Wa aan Hara FATA 


farsa wat xciii 


fara yatta Fo YS Ho 
ie FI Sta HR 8% 
sprrata Bl BAT : EAC) 
Tea Sl HRT WE 
aH stfe a STAM RRR 
AW H ATA BIS HI A Qos 
vita Sask aAASA BR 
qasar WW 
Uae a wren fata Vo 
Wet GEN Hl TAA Bu 
tafe sit STHER WHo- Bz 
&. 
Bilas wearer — Wacay 3M9-Yoe 
FIST FRA Tl El g 
oe & el BF 
ast pral F aprered Seat SI FAT 3 
area fay ay 
saree el | Qu 
Hacer site weet at seats RE 
at cE & ae AA 24 
— ae um a facta 219 
fafira arat & adder 38 
Wa & co fea ane at Frota 8% 
Gait aa a foe %& 
Ta yan has db aaaferafe = 8 
as 8 wa A sea & 4 
ax Ate RK fA 9G 
Fafa ak STE Wed 
Safe Seng — Rar era © BORWRG 
A Sara taht Mita a . 
SoH TWAT g 
rents sik years 3 
Yael AM ta avs, TH i9 
HA BX AMA Sl ATA Qe 


xciv 


faqa Veith Fo 
Bv|Nt ae ware g2 
wetta ais 83 
HCI Fe ay 
aerated Bo aay kala V9 
We BT WATT sik AE ala 22 
eg 2 

30 

FAH BATH BT ST BAT “2 
I wel FY Trae eafa uy 
Se Mesa 4 
SqGER ug 


age Visa Q 
Wen fate, eye fates ary fafirat 28 
We Pa 22 
ae Wed Sed cht ate fate, ates 

ufsar & ory ko 
Fa War & Ufa vars & fava 9E, 
3a Cart Hl UPS TAT Q2 


Ot Cart & seis Tat Se Q3 
al Sart & ata se Frarerar 2¥o 


Bera sifed V¥2 
ta afd ath steer ar gen Pola ax 
Yall Hr aah aa 
WY BI GA AMT FOTO @%~ 
ETE MAT, Quo 
Trea Hera Sas BATA Que 
ay aaa RRR 
Wee BT Fal FH Af RaQ 
alfa sik sTeeK BUY RAG 
ufigrs — wah 


— $%-KUS 


B4S-4VB 


at Sera an: 
ata TEI 

Faaiat aur: 
equate: 
Waa: Wary: 

are aay 


Xt Tata we aPrafgasihrqwact 

a avs Walhacet afar qety Ascent 

ft traraa alfa sosa- vet stare AT Ae: 

ft YANIWERN Aa A: Wee EIA 1 8 

af Toa & fee war afa ara ast sh Aw AIT SAR 

wa fara aD aa & fae ger Ser TE | Mt Se & are afi (aad), 
aq (veal), area (Subse) aa (Fe wa), Wat (ARPT), THAR 
stata) Wasl-sa Ba Zama a ast afeafna @ 1 Se derea 
Lire) Ua street Za ToT weer HUH dre ae fez MT E bk 


mre aa Her cay AT Tere HAT, 
fargqenifira Hat WATT UT Eh, WATT AT TT | 
SHMTOy Tae Tat Aca Ad WE: 1 21 
tact as an dt faq aedt ef A ce at sire & anfctr a 
(BOT et) aT ara Aa Ht fare & aa whee dat ze, sa 
7a Sat an op eT Use sg 2 We Aa aa fad as BY, Ta 
TOR (at) saareh, tad wot Sra aH HIM area BI 2 | 
wafa amet vdafargd aeargat 
wate queHT Feats ae fratael 
aefraaa Safe: attohetey wWerex- 
eR aft qh: HiSrstraas: 1-3 | 
oR We staa, TSI AH Ra HT eI, ST eH NH TT 
BLY THa-ag 4 gare are fea gue | aa & force trey Ff gest 
HET) IM, SH, SWAT, TT GANG, Gat GUE wa BU ze, Aer 
VATS Sei asa H rat Se UT HL WHR! Sta & (SIAIM ATE) 
CT STM at (TST) HT Sa at ep AST HT TA | 


fast aaa 


oft creat watt wat anata 
Tea Tey cafeait aeqneraa: 
frara edo fa wearty wre x 
gatfe Ge, aay we atte ara- foo at wos we SAH steirate @ 
% fears at are virea fora € faraa afer Sifay wires Bt eT 
ats mere ot ae aa | 
TASHA TEN TITS TAA AeqapPe 
fawsarata wet Tet Aled at TaaHlat: | 
ara: arta feareta afarrarnrnrartid- 
tereaty safactaa afaad are aeTaa: |G | 
ea wea Ho uta safer (war steam) & - 2. we, 2 abe, 
3. fos, x. faa afed ia, aa &. area 1 a wt fafa aemt 
8 fare @ 1) eat aadt ca, oa for ae sa wat @ Tea Acs 
ft Bowe a seh & et we H vest HTS ot (Shh a aA 
ara th) aes df waa aed fea SR Wy fag TTI GI 
Ae STAT AAa HA Aa Fa Ue FT| 
sta ward sqaefacts fort aa wefar | 
Ten ear SfarqyraamMeg wey Tre 
Wea TI HET TOT aA WaT VAT 1 & | 
afe erat straq (fem, avs, fea, ara, ay anfe ) at mrt 
Weare aet ara at afew atk card wee ad a Ge el ea FI Ra: 
faarat SIO Fe Wee at Uda Ht Ta Fee TA TOT SIA WET VK 
amy ahs fed € a Tel, Ta TA ATH FT EI 


wre, frat ufeer tia wir wm Hea ATaTs< WeAT 
wit are Harem sea: ader af wen: | 
ferasaet Ternfs wT WVeNA wAy HaN- 
fararaiat faarared efx Head WI ITA! I 
tfa ate wx aT, fea. aia sit ad Fr Wea (UH Hey H) 
Weal, Saat Oa, SN aa Heed aries FHM AA @, am: a aa 
wea wat san a feat & faa a7 eT TTT, Fag, 
UM, 3, Ha sik faty ante ar A TA & My ACA TEAS aT: 
ar oer fora ara 1 
wea, ad, ara, fea anfe at ofan 4 zim weet at ofa 


are AUT 3 


aqan @, tt: St ar WER were softafia @ 1 ad a ye At ara 
asad veal a et ou aa eT, a ue fer A yedt a amy 
aqat Ua ae eT | yest ot nfa gen aid SA a ag site fea oft 
Nel Ws STH Ma BI UW TAHT WER WaT Tet LSM | sy Wet 
at fat SoU AT Gta H STAN HA A SN) YE Cat Sat & aT 
ayfora at at fafa & srqar Sarel YS TAT ST Uret e | 

Wag WAY BAT a sats Trews were- 

GH, AACA AAA AMAIA: Head saTATeA: | 

qafartacay aaaate facenta Th, fre ara - 

coud you Got qag fe ufaat arfa qarafrar: 1 ¢ | 

ud sara 4 ft wet et fe 7a wet ao arfed We sk sae 2a 

Ty tH aed Ha BAM a A TA Wet Hl says GAM saz | 
faa Vel ¥e BA Ra GH AAT TIT 2 | Ta we a faa WE 
sat war & feat ea @ 1 at: Fa fazara @ fas ca wen ae 
TEN Hi A asi IARI Hla TH SIAN TEM | 


aeqeag Waa aefa ser acarfxat fe way 
aearaar atti ware Wead Baraca Ady FFE: 1k 1 
(area farfaa fear feast at ‘carat anita’ area eta 
4 (=ifafda) afee 3 wer @ fe Aas at wT afe HRB, He TT 
Tea Were Sta & Tat at Ga Ho ufss ert 2 | ; 
Wa He ale We oa eat 
wit vata ata wate: | 
q Sredisa airs Grae 
WY Wer AATNcHta Fa 1 20 1 
afe cre olaer & faa wire fora 8 At Saal wee at aref Hl) 
Tefzat SA a at ay Vfa Fel Eri | ata: TAH esx Wa HY HPRrevay 
& geet afr ar ara atta wed 2 | 
Sey TET Hey Ura TH fatwa varet | 
OT WAH AAT BAY ANT 1 ez 1 
Tira, «fod sik Aed-wa fe ead A Sifas erer fares 2 
Tas nha wr ta GaN et, Fife va fart wierd oie Yed HTH 
4 ae da 3 
att create Uret fanaret aazartt at are 
We uframes Tare FoaTy YATATT | 221 


a 


yO fag cio 
sft aremtrart 3 urd) nfora (etree) wept ye fever & or: 
3a fa seus 4 oe afora a ores area ¢ faraa onferat ar eay 
BT 1 ez! 

frat cttsfery were af wedtt Fao: | 

varia sari fase werd aPorarry HAT] 4 83 I 

faart cin at git & faa fears cin ¥ fade aa & ot ora 

fogra wet ¥ ad 8) sa po ze 


afrty ad wate aa- 

frat: BTA AAT Seay: 

Ia: WAT: Brea 

ga Safes Were Tse: 1 ew 
az ao aim aget Fuga St BF aa at stew es (Ged) 4 
ewe are a8 | se agd ar ar Shfay wea ant St eat z 
aa: HPA aM Sifas Bt Ae ar sin Hea g | 


aaTaTeaya: Wastt Tat Sifax wer we 
at ta Prem waa re qa arfas Heaters | 
we: URSTaNS Wert Wearena aeaay 
Sift: Wea WAeaTyafe 7 aa: HAST TWEE: 1 ey I 
seed yea Hw sin -(2) Wifarg sta S, (2) STAHL Vt Fe, 
(3) Freeh , TA, (v) weueTTe, eT, (4) Fererrerrer, ATH Bitz (&) BX, 
art 1 wasn er ow at feet are cin ar Ae BH GH att: 
SATs te HT WaT siz 
wife: wey adgy farsenta site wet ATT 
TeaAT UTS We WHS TT yeserey AHETATA: | 
ara frat ata 7 afew ges: sed aT ara: 
ye cararfh qarya fecorefadcet aria cf: 1 a! 
nhra ett aay a et 8 a ae aaa Uf & wa winT eh BT 
ara #1 aefa sey aerst ar ware cea & | 
Wa Fale BTS: WTA: VATION Ware: 


wearvarratir fafenfraseg way Garey: 


are AAA & 
ward TTS TET STAs VT sweat aA- 
Sars Wat Aes WHat wy fossa TH: 1 ww | 
ag virfet foe va wea ¢ fro we 4 afe @ Ga oe 
ai drat) at var wr ford a, fred gfe aval, yet aaa anfe ae 
wat, TET ak We aM StstciaT sik ST, of snfe aa sik Gana 
anfe at wat ST | 
xe edgar aa fafa efath Safes qa ar: 
fosraea tre weanta wat add aa wed: | 
frat: ae: Waa Heyeq of weiss: wae - 
waret Ae afer Ty aft Tt are HY AavaTT: 1 ee 1 
great afte cam wea tae wreai 4 Shas Se BSH B 
fears ait feared ¥ titer ae @ | Sei Tet APA ara fas tea 
@ va ee at faery OT ara @, aet wet tem, TH sik qa va 
an 4 ana aa 1 Set Hes fast a aera aet agate (sre, 
fast, 74 sik AAA) aS ATA Batt: WT Pa BMT Ta oe HI AE 
wm SAS 
ama qat wend at alates Aaa 
aedfa wre te Cafe: weaharaargy aTTs 1 8 1 
ae Wreat ae sik age wa (at, ote, wre ait ata) ea 3, 
ufaa ak vata oft @ att: at 3 (gata ges A an a a a faert 
ml sues feat a) sa wre wt Ta wer fra Sa ase siz 
Tart goa et ag | 
ats arco sor an safe frereay 
fora wnele weatiqearedr<s smrfrarary | 
aad astra fafar wa cafe Gear 
Sl HAT TA ael <AKalt HH AA TAY AAT: 1 Ro | 
a we & yas 4 ara ae, set, wo, we staat ST 
wifes anfe, we, eR, fae, WEN, Weafa, aaa, afa, sea sik 
ST, UK attiafa ix arf ura 3 1 
TWRTS F we, SA, ATH wal, gfe sik Tea aa, 7c, yea, 
PN, Ta, Sa- fae, sere gt te eg er srg 
ve arr cin Bal | 


& faara eter 


AIT SCT ThA Weeds Aa TAIT, 

Grose Wye Far Tassie F 

Tart gehen fyat waa cae welt 

ere ears WATER w wate ace wears Fa: 1 2s 

free ast 8 gear a vefs A ae a ws fen, sera a 

sigan 3k see vie aT, wis, Fer (Yeast, a, af, arg sik 
APTN), THES Sai (ura, HAPea, was aAreai sikx A) BA Z, 
TH MANOS FH Tash & ahs area 8 Ss waety weal Wega F Wary 
8 at gaat 1 cat aa 8, sik oy ay 8 owe free TT SAA 
ea nee 


wrt ftatasphtaft erat, Paces TAT | RU 
gfe wa & ae aa 3 a gat B ae Vera aH Bl Waw HT 
gat & art acs ye @ ues at ace an feat | ae PAA ST aH 
O oferdt & yt od or gan & (at veasit a are) sik srt 
aware Hae wie YA tert | ae Wet vias @ ye Ve stat are 
area fa & Ara-se get Fa BE 


wadaatae tea: wearstrrardés: 1 221 
war wrearwsy, Pree sik fay (cafaa) & 1 Sifasw (Gees) 
MAT AT et we 1 Ae onfe (ara H ara) ea wre & sraaa FB, 
ten fast ar aa 2 1 sta 8 ara wal 8 wer aT anes weal & fra 
fas am ara az tater va Weta BUT | 
WM YAR UT ATT: BIST: TaTeHaATATHs | 
RYT Wares YX Taisen fefaa: wes: 1 WX 1 
aret 3 at sref ws cera aT dex SA aren sik UH Hie 
fae AToT Sra S| AY ST ATA (HTH) BIA H AI wT S | LSI 
are at at (fe aqua fra at a) sie gen are at ary (sPaat 
BT SUAS FT ST UH CAAT Glet) Hed z | 


—aer OTA \9 


mronfenisal sraen ara qatrae areca feerdra: 
qearte sist zatiiist Sfcarera WaT BEAT Bt 
ara % or anfe ea yd @ 1 ata tahea rae FH oma 2 1 fra 
agra St Tae Fae APT STs ae afe snfe-srad wre = | 
en mratafateaes aeregie: Fa WaT (Yoo) AAT | 
UA TART APTS fait (30) Taata Fray aw: 1 Re I 
ue FIT SH wa at ae SN B Het FH far aaa TMT 
aa af Het S| Yoo Afe GI UH Ga Al AeK Hed €1 UH FAT Zo 
aat i fare @ (FAS = Ves ATH) 
AeeAASHIET (2c) fat SET 
aratfaa care eat wre: | 
wT Saft: (go) wry TAH TaTe- 
ara (2) He afearas (3) faarets Yt 
ge FAG ST Us FTET sik Yo Prag UH WS aef Tar HT VAT 
& | 90 7S aot AT Ua VT Hea SV WT Hl Ua He six 3 HTM 
#1 g fast a yet Stet & | 
qa a ar few, (go) WforaT aT: Sara 
& fea (g) tar afar a ATT 
were afar (2), TEat 
séraa aral: STH (30) HET 1 Rt 
go Tal a fase Hl Us aT, & AT FIR Hel HI AVS, XY CVS HT 
UH Fed ae 30 Hed He mara fear dr z | 


HSA TAT WES (22) TH: Ya qed: Weaenare 
WAAR BTA (30) TT Raat ferarel ATE: t 1 
fer & aT Ua H ey a AMT Hl YAN Yed Hea ¢ 1 fas ates AT 
R we FH frame sar Bs steers (fer Se Ta) H 30 4M FH WIT 
Wed mea @ 1 ue aaa fra wena wR fea &, sam are fRt sat 
I | ae aa & aaa wl aaa fet axa SI 
ATMA: ATH: (go) GAY WTS AA: AAT ATT Tw: I 
IS Aq STH (30) feafafreg wa, Ga: THAT WAT | Ro I 
Ro ara fea Hl Un aaa We Sia 2 | Galea Verma qalea 
Sa araq fea ae 30 arad fet wT Ta er & I Fat WHR 
SISATe (Tava @ STATA - SA WU TK areTHR FH EM) At 20 


‘c . ‘ fast ator 
a eae at er eR ee eee 
Hea B | 
afeerert scant art areaitsd (22) Wed: ete HTa: 
ware Waar wy fest fet war erga freraa: 1 ag t 
et area, ara, fafa, a anfe ore a faaa faa wey ® 
TARTS HI 1 lak are a ww ak ad aat we at ad an usw feoq 
a srax fea era z | 
TUT] VE YCUTfaeTAT (ago) fror waeraT Fa aH 1 az 
aa wt saz ete efamr ufa & are ea ara ar stétaa erat 
@ 1 (qa & are sad trend § cee | Tat Ya 8 fea ud chart ya 
Hwa eet 2 1: fra Zaarstt an fea six arqdi HI wa HEA % ) 1 3G 
feoa at ota feat are feoa a raz a ee et 
Ud At AeA: ATA (82,000)~ 
agg woacate wie 7 
WA AMAATAAS- (%3,%o,000) 
fearecree Pra er: 1 
(@ =o, 3H =0, 3M =o, @ =o, AT =32, FE =v FA VER 
afer B oF simi Hr FTAA @ ¥3,20,000 TIM B | 
Roce feoy ay 
ATR WeraT ST AKAM 
¥B.20,000 Wt ag 
— Rereal whag HAM AA, Ut BTATHTA I 
WETYM HX (to) Tage (¥) Fea (2) 
& (2) & (x) ft: Werpel fas t av t 
HSTAN Bh go AIT HC HH A ¥,3,2, ST eo ST TT HA ew (ad 
uel & arpa) wey, arr sie wferqn ama F 1 
MIT Wear ated frets deat qt earat (&) WV 
wedardt caer art qedg Bel BT af Ba: 1 ay | 
ufa an ar ye ater anfe ate ara at we edt & 1 seat arret 
(¥/22) aife den sit gat et era wet @ ( St we (ye 4M) 
PTT Re Be WN aT FB 


area ATTA . 8 
qant TH AIT (02) TEAATTT AAIAMT: (219, 2,000) 
grraeadt Weraetares: Valier: Sd Barats: 1 3G I 
we ABTA & UF WAR SA S| Wes TARR & ara HUAN 

= ae we Ue ed 81 Ta yea & ae Wa a afer 

dart & a West FR & Geet at UE aha (MTT & aa ) edt 

2 | 
as (ty) fir UPai Patera area: gh (ge) 
fet fat: wer eft ad aq qt: weer fire Premfir a0 
ey Ube & frm ex aa HI we a Um fer din @ fra 

Hey HEA | FAH Yooo (ASIAN Al) AM (RY WAM xl BT + BW 

Weal AN x ¥/%o SUS GE Gay Oh ete a) A ee a 

afta eat 2 | 
ee ee oe es 
qaaereey Seite Iq WTS Are FHT AMT UAT Re | 
Za WR A Hout HI AAT HI steNs, Fa stekaa H1 a ad erm 

(ox FEI FA too ae SH TET a oY e He HeHeT a WT HET 

@ 1 Wea We (yo TaAT) HT ATA WET aT I 
arenqedaa WENT Aeaae: HeUyST fag: | 
MAPS TCATAATT ATE ATA Sata: Sa AlHATAT: t 3< t 
get wr HATA ate @ | He statfe @ ata: fad wer ata BH 

We wel Hel ST AHA | 

vadarreataattert cada wearayiser 
wat fey WT Sey TS WATS: TOT AA SeMATAT: | ¥o | 
ada wan % ure wr yey fea ae ver @ frat Pa afed & 

AI ata ae | 

wrega: wre aqofarate wanifasshes arat a 
WaAASA, AT AIMS AACA: AAT UT He | ¥z I 
waa € aq ata € | caresyga, canifag sea , ara, Yaa sik 

TAS | MAT AA HI ATA Aaa Zz | 
TAA Bdadt Wat warfssrfasfs (X09) Tray 1 
UM Wa: WET TAT Fare: Het: AAA TETATSAT: (Row 
WaT AT FH Wo Hergy ata ae xe SF Ferg H acy, Fat site BI | 


Qo ferara ation 


aa ae 1 afar FY yew ad ata ge CFM & AAA) | 
aisis arnifey zarfse aa Ta-<at 
(RAVER 00) TA featfettsa 
Aa: Sta, Tiras BT Se 
AIWAAMAHAPTAS | ¥3 1 (Y¥¥o00000)! 
A VAS SSA A Tal fea TH S WY SAT TH UA eRW9o 
ad alt Th | 2x ¥o,000 ERT 
Heaecaea faga vara | 
SUSTSASUSTHMTTS THT: § (LBW VRW}! 
pear, ard fragea Fez: 
Wart Bar arate 1 ¥¥ | 
errs Gen Fay 24 8 gen & ada fea & evs anfe frei 
(TAHT ATA 231 VI BIBI 1 3) ea ad ar ea SY WATS &, Saat 
we fea onfe farsa F are sum at & 
see fast: gait ferret weet Merfes Tera: | 
we Oat worasa are ae: HeaTArearaya | v4 | 
ARTay B eat Sat Ban 3 say fea B wrSA a We, aaa, Ma, 
aia, ta sik te anf at cat ye a1 gad se de Beran, dia 
BRT (MT TAT TAT BIA), ASA Bray (ws) ST aren Waa cM | 
WATT BseG T A AN DS (2\90G¥000) 
eta: Her aT fase: | 
qeascar: axtzariey aT- 
ATUTAATT HIT (V4ycewgvc) FEaTerstry 1 we t 
ak act 3 pie Ta BT AA 2,00,8¥,000 BIT | FS Hous FH 
FETA SG OPE WaT Ugyucexevo Ba | 
et feet Wat cea wae card wy faferh aregs 
wadarre eats wari aa fears srerqi we) 
(afe @n ay) sferan & srg sey SAH aH tia wi ore 
Ud He Aaa Asa HT fer sa fer wt efaan aa YS wager 
HST NAY | 
wafer: Savaw wat (a) we waa Fate ara eer 
Ut: ut eta aera Ta WaMTeTT Va WAT I we | 
FA WHR Te Tar St Ths sae SA WR, wen aT fea WATA ea 


ere ATTA 22 


At (STH UF HET AT Yooo AETAN H A) Ht Te aaa aet ves AA 
& aet a ofa ores et ef fire oat St nfs sneea et ore 2 
afr fait were west weed ahaa aera: 
qé ad Fagdlitd qereers: wera Hart: 1 we 
So VSR aa & ster A at a Vel wr wera er F | aa 
ae faa & ore SB Wt wifasasH Hr ATT ST Sa @ (200 a TaN 
AT \9%,coo HEY H Tat St WH wt F are) 


rarer aredaestt qat aafedte + fara are 
Gat wa urate oa ae Water qe ctw TAIT | 40 I 
ag ufvedt a aa & fe gen & fea srea @ Wel a oes otk 
fea at @ Del wt are eta @1 fark yeat ar ara aan & ars & ae 
drt 31 at ae Ha StH aet oT, fae afer wet an rer eter & | 
fore oft oval ae set ert) 


ye nerve fage wa ot ae fears fatreqqae: | 
fafuneatacinfa: feet fenfer ard fe gee aes | ue | 
wefan wa & aaa dt uedt afea asi ve tas ae eae 1 ae 
aa aa & | wife (we) fer ware GA UK fark Set gest set zw siz 

aS 4S We Aaa AE Sl WTS Sa HUE SASH HT eT eI 


aM Ta aT Tag wataesd 7 afeead fed waa: | 
arpa Serer fetsterfech wera: aah fe ATT 4k 
fahk van ae gaat wal es, (Sant We aes A HE SoA Tet 
@) 1 oe area & feu adam wen & feat at oer wt ard & 
(aret seat & aR A ee di aa BS, We wea 4 sea Fel ysAT | 
(fate wa arencrard ar @) | 


WHAT: ANAT SHIT 

safa waaafraante abort ait 1 

ee Gat a: Woe areierasat 

amy sft frew: wea: WH WHT: 1 42 | 

Mea SAM BGA SAF HT St arly Hea S sta: WaT FH aa fags 

wl Sts qa fava wt sree orem Ae BH Te aA qd & 
aig & sey az Yad ca aft SA WK Ta We HI Uw Fa WW ea 
Sea we an waa nfs a wm Hed Sree era ams wala 
ak we 8 | . 


22 | fara etry 


aref (22) eh ner UE aaaeaaTeT Z| 
Frnt (30) wish wate sm sferetaty (G0) ATT: HAT 
FAT TA ACMI (Go) HEL faHel WHATS, (Ko) 
ante there? fear: wereraaar: ura, Ghee: 1 ye 
TT (TA) H 22 aM Hl Ui Hed SF 1 UA, We, 4, aa, wa 
—aufe set & ara 1 afer wr y3o am sis 8 1 aa Si AT sist H 
SA ATA @ 1 ater H ego am al Het a feat Hea & 1 Hel FH veo 
am a faeen at fafeet wea #1 fame % veo am sik Tam oh 
yego AMT pr an, from ante wea F 1 wealt areal 7 a wae AM 
wena eat A win fae 
a: yaa ward & craata at arrat wat cae- 
TR: Ga Wee Araaes, Arearze Wear 
atte ured sar warped wrt: BPE I 
Oe CA WT AACA Hea: A TAMA 1 Gy | 
Beary (Te a ATA) Ges A ee Are arial are Area a feraz 
a aft Serres & apr @ sit ave axa &, acl facta werd (arate) # 
ofadt Tar & fae are wa Bu A ue St aet wea %, ae BS 
Tt SATS AT HE ST HL 
ararsrart Hat AtrastatrS 
frara edo sorted area ayy 
YSISTHCAAIATH WA: WHT: 1 4G I 
Teta F Wawra UsHat Aa at wR BRAT H ca, fers Afra 


wey forera cdo ae oe ot ase aed & | Sa IT WET WaT 
eat | . 


a 


| B (00) boleh kA IR (hh) bale wie ‘(ho7) palek air ‘(o¥s) 
balk RE (o§8) be bald Bib | 2 (oad “0% “87 '7A) doll hove op 
Blehby-b | 2 ARE lo be de Blk o PP hyp |e biejh B bh 
12 | :po@adh Ibe RIS (om) PRE (ahh) 1 PIN Rpeh 
PSE (hor) UikKiole (O8R) Ibis ber (088) kB bOS-Ioh 
1 ORd'O3'°37'7R ) ‘pAlb? Link B® Sib ile ch-Te 
(Att) theiibiRileth -Ualts LB>b pb phy 
| & (R86 “RR “BB 'RE) Lott 
bate be BYR | 2 (037 ‘eh “Re ‘Lo ‘6\) Inubs bd4e Lo Blea wis 
12 (hot “hh “8x BE) Inieh bdeo 
ld oir 3 = Seb ete (ba PAO = (bate) ib ‘t= bp ‘4 = 
bk ‘3 = Lite ‘®\ = (bph) Site ( eb Dim RI = 3 OY = (Lesh) 
B) 1 & ( sar‘ors‘es'to'ea3) lok bode bb Bika 4 (Lie) be 
PO t lbp Php (330'SA"RB'R3) ok wh Lip & pyink 
| LUSK sti (O27 ah'Qd‘do'Q) IIE hein YS pas) lap aR 
Wh (hodhh'ta'st ) bd B>p Yori tolbinie inlet inls 
IHEUGUZE (RB OR'SL'ES AI) LoohOipbh b> Libb 1D! bb} 
| (&= (Ble) Lei ‘(reite) wd >= 
(b¥eJ3) ke R= Bo ‘7= Ate ‘A= LE Y= kh ‘byRl ‘2s = Loiuie) 
| 2 888 “Be ‘7S ‘SE “SE lol Ye bdee A 4 Lich 
1 () = (lol) eb3 “= fi “A= Bl} 
“y= (loll) lol “B= brfte ‘tR= YR ‘a= bie ‘o= Rie ‘o= EP) 
| B ooo'we “BE “BE “hey ‘eh lolete de od A 4 (cea) Bee 
12 (Bh BIKE d b)a pie ait ‘bik |B 4b (bisjdote) de ib 
te BE Inih ar (Shp A = ‘bhste “t= bed ‘Sp 3= aii) 
| 2 e00 ‘oo'oo'té ‘A Joith de ph B bigjh de PR b hdd wh 
13 1 cba (a2'83'a7ae'sk) pai YS wr Aik Pj) D> 
WP (ooo “BeBe ha‘ah) PRUE di} doled bep Pirie ee 
. | SEUSS Pep lpbd pebyis suai bhrpde 
(ooo'oo ‘Q8'A) :bholD-> bari iWhbIeph wijdo wpb 


bln’ Ld dite Jolt 


av : fasra edu 


wary Tiert ae are TTT Tari YaTET 
BY: TH WHAMTET (23,22,8¢,033) Wry, AAT (ARC) WATT 
UAT AT AAT: (RY) ATR ATA (220) STOPS TAT: (Qv4) WAT 
Rutee (xy) Gat TY Ta: ure: HerfaRaTs vt 
(qd wrba ga FH cert & Sty Sas Ha Wa HI TT ANT FI) 
WK BMUA Bl BT ITT (2I,2V,8¢,083) ANA BH (VL) FT HT 
(222), WS HI (Rwy) WH BI (20) ABT VPA HT avy B 
Taw ware wT ateraa war faery fad vata 
IT PATE Pare Warfs ware wes Wear: 
(24,62, 23,92, 2S,000) ral 
wer aaa wad sea @ ama waa} aaa a es fer Hee 
Zi WH BET FH (24,62, 23, 9¢ 2% 000) Arara fer Ba FI 
faattar saritagenrare elfen feats aft 
fearatehrtietar ast varerefaare arar: 1&1 


We & wry veya G fads saa aa aaa Hl sa ae wT areas fet 
wed & | tea fea Gea a ue wT Gem yer ue area fer 
tren fret & 1 eR aT a Es TT vert we Ure are dem fret 
z1 

qternra: vftatsiared wettaarar: ey tae ATA: 

QUA (30) fren: fagqaracret fafaerar: Tay aTaVAr: | 9 1 
wey St UX ATS Aes a Gs ara dear (qt wT x 82) 
Fert & Head wt aheara Wet (SR aTI-|GA WT x 23) sid 

& | wea H UK ATG AST BH 20 B pM ar (urs fats) saa aaa 
feat wert ow Hen wr fafa aa era B 

ATA: PPCEM: PATE AAVA: (4% C¥ 00,00 000) 

ee ATT | 

wary afe nia aetna 
(43,¥3,33,8,000) UPHAT ET: 1c 1 
WH HET H A AMT WEAT (42,¥,00,00, 000) 

Ue HU A APH ATT AEA (43,3, 33, 36,000) 

gorgeh wrerait frtt satay arurfere4ray (%,4%,33,36,000) STIATAST: | 

aa a a a aM ga, WORE 

(24,44, Jo 00 00 000} FHA: 1 Sl 


apy aarfe at aut By 


Ua HT AY SAPAATA TAT (2,48, 33,328,000) 
Uh HT Hak fear dear (24,44, 2o,00,00, o00) 
carat @ @ Git Sea aTaT, WNT. ae: 
(%& 03,00,00,20 000) 
Wt Ts Te ga, fears aT 
ANTRTATA: (RU, 919, 88,192 22,000) (Ro) 
aq ofr uforafarar: aaa: @fearar array: | 
(24,02, 22, 42,000) ferfarerar: 1 921 
Wah ST FY UPA WAT (26,03 00,00 20,000) 
yy (HA) ATA FEA ASAT (84,9, 82,92, VL ,000)- 
y MAPA MWA (240d, 22, 42,000) 


Grae worstar wz aR TAH WHAT: 1 
afd Aft a at aa saa: wiaerice wer Fea: 1 eR 1 
We ait Tae se} dra ards (SM) SAR FH aK Hed B vig 
va a wl wo vite Se aM We Te a AK HE SEI IT 8 | Te 
TTT sh WE TTT HT SRK HR TT Ea | Wel H Ta sik ua ane 
Toy aN Hf uf ave St ara B, ara: SAH Hea Ty He sa S (Hed 
Al ooo aN HH ary uot ela ze 1) 
We, Tey aves arf: MA aT Shea weTerhH: 
va We Qeaafrerear adasa aed Waa: 1 83 I 
STR AG, sTY aa wae anfe vista & vata € 1 ye, Sa, we 
sife were & uate z 
aye Yoh Ta AH AEA (2E,000) 
WH att TAH AAT (2,998) 
WI FTE YT AH ATA (22,22) 
TH WATT TH ASAT: (2 "YR) | Vw I 
wh wx @ feat wa: eared wa fe safat Fer: | 
fa-qets ufcara arat afat afaetha sata: 1 ey | 
Whoo SY = g Req aaa fest 
330g B= 2, we fea 
2,320 TY =e UT fer ss 
RR, B48 STG = 2, Grad fea 


RR Past ear 
eat arene ares fear ar et ce saaert era 2 1 fra veo 
an at ufeat a cos Hea = | 
taea Whaat: Sarat wafer: Lada: Hares: 
WANTS TTA Tad: Caea wae FEaes: WENT! 2 tl 
we & eq an wor at araafed @ arm 2A we we at ehraw 
wen ante aft aidt @ 1 Hea ares fea deat Fo ue si wT Gea 
Sam ea aK Ue & UH wT a af ar Ha fame Fs 
wt ute cad: wate: aires wet cares: 
pierar: Wy qeraey wera wferaiie aq TE 1 vo | 
aa & ufe, sis & fra var (Yeo) SRI aM watt aafe faart 
%, faar.aet wer wh fer ® raz €o, Go UIT AL eUs, Va, fave 
anfe ger ana fram axa é | 
ad wea ferrea: HAT ATH TAT: (RR) META: (24) 
HOT: (3x) Fafa (32) seat: (ax) MHardagad Attar: ict 
ei up wot ar & fer arf F-gquaeigeiry | 
aie qfe fearareat wt Hear STaTTTT: (36%) WT: (4) 
aft (20) Tre (23) Bera Sa TAT HA WafeaT: 1 vet 
Hey TS BT Wa TAT APT SET A FT BQ VWI TTA St. 
faa we ad wer ara 2 | 
ferrets fafe arate fered ae gest sem 
ferarer eer wer ea fet wari aes wer: t 
A TH MT (48) WAT (2) TM (Ro) Fee: 
(0) Frat: (2¥) ATAWT (22) 
feard (30) areal (x) frag fata (go) 
THT: (6) BFA: | o | 
ae at tira Aer NA UEsicgolgolBwizIZol¥igoly (Hatha) 
PREAMHTATRA: (90) HAT (Fv) TTA (42) 
wat (3) SSHETA (9) 
AMT (2) & CQ) TAPAS (2e) TATA (20) 
GSS AEM (22) PATTI 
SPSS TO (3g) TARA (2) AT (30) 


ero aitfe aT atta a9 


we (&) FASTA: (wo) | Tore FTA (xv) 
Tat (3%) ATHAT (%R) TWAT: (3) AAA (¥) AAT: 1 WI 
ae at RAH ETT TPA Moi VWIUTICIRGlol VW. BEA ATA 
at Bf Aer THA BiB IVOVWISWVIIBIY HAT S | 


Taraforgqar (2a) TET (32) THAT (28) 
S¥aT: (9) AHA (R99) AAT (29) 
Tisat (4a) Afe Har («g) TrghTaa («2) 
aereray (¥¥) AML Wha: 4 
AAT (S) ASMA: (48) MT: (4) FATT (39) 
@ (0) TS. TU: (38) Fars: (vg) 
TTT BAT (t9) TAA (2) Weary fafear (42) 
araeata wT Wha: t 221 
au vita at thre afa- VWI BLE NG NS!VOIGS (WIR! ® 
SHY SPH APA WIGS iG BslosweiValVael 
ata souraft (9g) €at: (19) FATT: (30) 
WATSTA (v9) FATA: 1 (49) 
TAF (yo) AAMT (3e) LET (32) 
fay (32) aTOTSTAAY (34) BITAPA: 
ASST BA (2) AW (0) AMTAAT (RR) ATA (44) MAT (2) 
Tara: (43) Patt areata (22) 
THT (2) Far: (w) ARTA: (4) 1-231 
Ym Siar St three qefa—ea io Bol wolGi9/ Go 38 1323Vl34! 
RPT BY Shree eT TPA — Bol VEIGUI VIG! VW! VBIGY 
WHITE TH: (&) BATT (Xo) 
TeeqaE: (4X) HUTA (3%) TA (0) 
> (8¥) IAT (4) FTRMT: 
(42) WSareray (wu) SSH: (38) 
TUIAET WT (3) feet: (go) TACHA: 
(vo) Yorfserat (vo) S WTSI: (¥o) 
Tea (28) frre (93) ANAS 
(24) fare (23) SRTAT (30) eft 1 yw I 
WATS HT Afra BETA NTA — GI wolQV BQ Ol¥KIGIQAIYYIIS | 
TUTE at Sas HET — B1Rol WWI ¥ol'¥o! BEIRI4IBIRo 


re foara ety 


ae at eh RT I 
fire: finan: Geeta fife sand Gard frit 
cart tats wera fe qa qafest 
amet Fara ere fracas HE PATA AT: 1 1 
3 terse are sores at afeara & gos Hea FSi srr 
a wrbrge ee Geet Ga SAT SUH ET HLA E | Ae wera Bret H 
geal ret geet & aR ye urea er Mee HAE 


arat feats Fea TTT: WHT: 1 et 


Fa Wen setm fread Tapa 8 say st MAT Ha gH Trg 
ES Aa SLT ee ese ea Teese 
TA Eat | 


qdra: Waret 
Werat aoa 
aafirartecat ara wet qa aft i 
WAAL WAKA ATaat SAT WATT v1 
fedt as om ge (sfeaq) ara, va a fafa A ae (oe at ats 
anfa) Saat & fare vest Hea a (fe a) sea He SE fer TH (TAA) 
seri (fea aye) frarca % 1 cae faa dk sik ars ara eri ow 
Sua Stat & | 
HEA TIA Ff CATT AeHey THA: | 
aft wo ayat aha as TAAL! ZI 
Hey oe ifs art & few aa ee gq ok wo 4 fe G | 
Te Sata Aa: Ber aE (Qo) fragt: 
Barafe ways: HeaMtaes FH: ATLL B1 
aad Saeadt AA H AA Vo HEA, 2 We AN (AS, AA aie BR) 
sit @ferqn & da ge sik dk ad a 
adiea waa ofe are aT: 
aT wargte a2, yo wes (%,\90, &¥ 000) UPdTsraHy 1 ¥ I 
TA VIA Tsar TAH YE FTE (2,190,G¥,000 aa) were | 
Wa: WaT WarHteary Sea BTR: GA: | 
aa Yetiefirate af: Waterary Tara 1 4 | 
we ak aet at ek SN at (AK Ta wt) TAR Ba ye a Ta 
St Ara F Gea ae | 
frase wrtircars uf aearfaares: 
forse per Wea are efor AraTHTT I «I 
ea (a anit a a ane wa, we wa KR Heo afiera 
(8,48,23,8,000) @ IT wt sik WaHa F aca & gt (aATea) ATe 
(S2,¥,00,00,000) Barn & 1 arHeT att EL SAA Ea | 
sed Garey 2a aK area waht 71 
PMT (30) ET Wafreater feet Heute fara: 
Fa (sfeaTa) wt Sa & (CAR Ara) 4H sSA B ArH ATS (HET 
S) frre tea 30 QE at Tafa (ada are wh) HS 1 oH 


Re fesra aqoy 
Rat A HST Fara AT (RY 02,22, 42,000) GF AT BL | 
ea: Fer ware wearanfratta: 1 
aha traarite tia aera araaT: 1c | 
WARA BH HET FAFA (2&,03,00,00,£0,000) BAM 24 A FE HT 
we fafuart Freaa 8 1 Ta vest waa wt fafeat wert we aTaT 
fea Gear (faa & sey) fawerdt & 1 (ara S aM BA Ww aT 
tfaan anfe & frat a an fren 3) | 
arent: feareared warceredrad: | 
aafeararara: we qafeareay 1 <1 
ae an gfe ores F cia at aria & area een ot ae 
atfera ot & fare @ara ate ar vim gen an) are (fea aet 
sufe) at 


7 Te astray za: yet marae 
: AAT TARATCH THY BTAT 1 to 
awa fon ren ar Sra afe arses H ura: Waa St om fame aria 
Ht ww sfaare gen W afea F usm ssa ar YS Ta Peal 
ara He I 
Yat wert Tera Hareaanadcess T 
TH SA AN ITY HH Hap ETT | ke I 
afe ace oh. afaara sry aren & a stfemra Bs aed SH 8 at 
. UK afrara & fea ue aera 1 eet var set & a Frearerst FF ft 
UA Hl SAM VS Baa 


TarCeTE ATT Ureratfeafer areca 
warfare sea aa safatarirerrayr 1 ez! 
fafa ar area A we ae SA ar aro 8 fe ada fafa , ara 
We a eae nfs (st ved aedt @) & sna HS Sfeer wT & few 
Un wey 8 (gd ax SI) Aes HI oTTEK Ela ze | 
aartefet: area fea ATaTSe UTeTeAT: 
Pritiset: Sa: Ga aS: 1 23 1 
ster 8 (ada fea & foe ) ¢ SR wo HT AIT AA A BH 
aan Tara (g) safe fer ona | (o Ws MAT) Ste aT Ae 
St Wt BS serio fare & SISA A Vera EFT | 


erat GAL . : R 


areata: yatta: Waetg aA 
SISATAY (30) AY WN creed FE (2) FEA GT (a) WAT ev 1 
ajettor HT Ro GW UM Sa aied Sl 2 A WM wi | Tar 2 TitsHr 
eames) am ae @ ea ante an at ern eri 1 ae an afeata 
at ara ar siferafa erm | 
wate: afad set areasy sardarta: 1 
SUA (30) NII YH TAT Ara Hteisar vey I 
ster HI 20 A ANT SA UW Be afer Ara HI Wa fer (30) F 
aal Fert W Fa ATA Hl Ty at arent fear faerm | 
feala: STATA (30) FAST (3) FH (2) AAT TA: (9) 
Ba: We: Crate masa eft GraT st 2g 1 
arent HI 3€0 BD ut eHT 3 A PM HR shee ws 1 HA Hv 
a at et a Be a ufa anfe aw frenn, at sa ad a sifaafa & | 
ago FAM SA WU Be ufera ad a ye fea 8 stata gat fea ot 
ad Gara gat aT | 


Wersey wrasse taant a Wada 
RATA T APA: Uieer fra: urererfaa: 1 vt 
area & aaa fea an afeufa se are ah afaata ae ad & yar 


fer an afaafa sa ad on oifrafa star 8 1 wares sik sae aera 
ml ft Aa 


a ahrearfeat sat Ae Warht a WT! 
ant waft waar ecard Aarta asa tte | 
SAS sya Ae tah, fora are HI as Sat an wH1 areata ad 


wl aifaafa ein & 1 (ga fae) Fe Gara Waa Bl BMA a anesy 
ar & wry & werk (vs aris) | 


WAT WI: HA (w) AT: fea (3) Asa seats caHATT | 
WATT (39) WH AAT Ser (2) HAA MTHS 
Ws ot dt carat H waa ada was Hae @ am ear Ta fata 
MT FSIS, ST Hc Ba Sa aa ST VTA eA @ cvSTie 
SS | armma fea dear Sit 1 (feat evs saa fea) | 
areas At WA VA: | =, 
Taree srearfer fearhs aft ares: t Ro 1 
a fea ge ad am ofa (ae aif ax an off) wea wom ad 


RR . frgra edu 
fea 4 tam fea wert & are art feat 8 darth & ara fea wr ae 
wea am 1 ta aa a asfaafa sf a ata 202 fer (20 fea 
¥o TOS) WIA HL THT F! 
afiaisety: eq ca orinffordten: 
wey qfeatfed anofe wet sa 1 2 I 
we fea wt ue snfe & fag setioy Fae & Hea ay BAT HT 


Hea aad fer S aT S 1 (HT AAT FEA 4,919,828, 96, 2,000) 
aT Ta MT Pe VT | 


WIT: YF: (2%) ACTA (30) THAT (Go) THAT (Go) GT: TF: 
for: pfearat: pater ferat fafa Hr: 1 221 
Be FeV aT Rr Hea aa fer @ aM AA a ate, fee wa 
@ a F 30,60,G0 @ WON ae Hea Uran fer S am 24 w sis, fem, 
fafera andl 2 | 


wi frar-wd catia seared wre: yates: | 
faara Waa: Taree Tame fayiifrar: 1 sft i 231 
(qi faard & sg0)- eel veER ge fer a vista, were, wa 
fram | afar wa wt afa faata fern 8 aa & ero saat uf 
aife at war (22) Uf A Vet eas 


Wreq TATA Fea (3) AAT STS (22) Tat: 
Tet THM Aareda TA KF AaT YA: 1 
va ofa Se aT TNT STAT RW Tah 3 SNS | ANTHa ST Aza 
TOT HC TA UPS aa x UM ste VIS | 


THAT (Go) CAT WAST Wal: Se Wrareay: | 
darwde adarrest NAT MSTA: 1 HI 
apa BT fo Ba ey UW Ws Ae Ws 1 waa wa a sey 
art Te ag fren 2 | 


HET: (22) ATTA (330) Ge AT feaTea: 
wat gear fea: fear: we card ay FT: 1 RK I 
ae ay H ufe are siz ana S sike TS ee S TN a sas 
STH Y/3z0 AM freneit | ae ye ad ar aia een fea em | aa 
fea ot cet var freerm 1 ae at fea cat &t seq ats @ area 
ara & | 


erat Ory, 23 


Saget fearsrecl Heaney Feat: 
aren afta: wie: cyfaaia TA: 1 WI 
yea mfa at We afe wa are ad (a ye sey) A afe ww 
A uta 8 (gat UP A a a) Ta are ae at uftsd siftercaz 
wea t | 
eps TMA: AHA TT AE TR: 
aa Hac: Bist sqsqey fet: Sa: 1 RX | 
ape Tifa & up ak ad H (As darts @ ses are dara 
an) afe aeenfa dia afer A ara sa GA Wa HEA Bt 
epeistrancar, strat Aeafs wT WeAar 
TSTaaeHTA TH AACAUTA: | 2% 
feat ak ad & afe mes ep) aft a afta we cad Ue 4 aa 
ai va: cao ufs A aa 4 ara sa ak ad SI ETE Se HET 
eae ad ot ae waren at ace fare atk opined 2 | 
Utt Heal: WEES: USIP: | 
way: HTT F Aa TA WIHT: | Zo | 
go aTeeIeTad Feo Se aN seat 4 Ae at HT UH 
ardeaey an dat 8 | ated adore ad Gea Fy a am tax afsa 
He Get @ oreqa onfe Te an ela 1 By at 
aml waderadq yat atfrx at: Far: | 
aearh waco carr aia Saag: | az 1 
wa Gay, oft, gal, a, oa seer ad Sta S | eam aifscafa 
Saya sifta, qi, we, wan sik fora 3 
forersise qerfeg uf a afer: 1 
ATATTST weer: Yatarahes TANT: 1 321 . 
Fey A & go adel aal wr aa AS fe ST 2 1 a ast 
Wl ea Sas ATE Bla Ft Var welts strarat wr aa z 
Wrar (x) fare: (2) VF (3) WAST (s) sa werrafa: 1 


(4) areitfaerpgt aoa ae BT Wawedr: 1 33 I 
&. We 2. fase. 3. ye vy. wae. 4 UsTofa | A ues ‘fawy qn a 
Ghat wacaz ys wer 2 ara Fz | ° 


¥ Reread ati 
aif: (8) aArgst Co) sy (2) Aart (@) ATA (20) fata 
at qeerta teat a yay sort yp ax 
‘fata ade an & aa aaa @- ¢. sife v. oq ¢. 
Wy. &. Fat go. ata | Tae she SH ¢. AA sty @, aH at BY 
eo om 
TAT (RR) A AHA (2) WAT (23) foray 
(es) Ta: (94) WR At TAs w fragqet 7 wet 1 yy I 
dra anderea an ‘ene’  wracer B22. Feat 22. TSA] 23, 
ae ey. fawy, w%. ae ead adie sik wad, wre sik faws ory 
e | 
Farry: (28) QATAA (9) AUT: (ge) aTfeay (29) 
BIT: (Yo) WAM araraHrs Bat ae 7 MAT: te 1 
AY arderea an “area H ad B-2¢ FHM Vo. GUA ve. TT, 
88, ores 2o. Sty 1 A eH sry Ft 
wefira (32) Wehardd (22) a ferdtett (23) fara: 
(2¥) BE (24) Usay str qt wars wat at qe 1 ae | 
araa aréerey an ‘cary’ Marca B-2ve. Ta fart 22. Taras, 22. 
faired, v<, fafa, %. Gt) Ta GAR ay Ee 
Tea re. fats vo, Fa WH Re. WATT 2a. 
erat 30. afedes ah ye arbaat gt a einet i 3c | 
METS ATH WE YM H AAC F-2e. PAA, Ws. FAST Ve. TG, 
2%, WHY, 39 Soe | sas saa at ary B 
aera gy frerrat (32) F frat (33) 
wregfe: (3s) TA: 1 (34) 
orfeat at eat carat wat tes a1 ae 
ard ‘tga? nee aeeofe an were Bae. BAeTa 82. 
fare, 23. facet, ax. wre, gu. erat | Tae geet et ye 


MHHT (FQ) WHT (39) HT (3c) favaray (38) WAY (vo) 
BEA | at sea yest at Yael 1 xo | 

asad Agr an H ad S 1 ae. VHA Bo. VHA ge. wre, 3g. 
fararag, xo, Wag gad ves a ye 


erred FATT Ry 
aay: (8) BYeTH: (3) WT: (x3) 
ATTN (xx) fatrrad, (4) 
are ai a 7am fa agqat yowel i xe 
are amas & & aecafa An are B-4e AH XV. HITS, 
4a, Ga, ve. TERT, wy, fatrerpa) eae Aree sik Se YH E | 
aftarat («g) Wael (wo) AW sat (%C) 
TAT (¥8) SAC: (4) 
tare BN seat a eat q: Gerzat | ¥z I 
wana 7HH cmd geafa qn h aan F - ve. afterat wv. 
garet, xe. STA, ¥&. Waa, 4o, SA | Fas aes era Gears 
a 
after: (4g) Bre (42) Ferarat (43) 
aat Tat (qx) S Agta: + (44) 
WHleMtrat Bt weg Ua YE: | ¥3 1 . 
sifsat ares 22 Fan & ay Sue. Hisar, 42. Hr, 43. fare, 
Qs. UF, 44. Safa 1 vet ferk foal es z | 
SSA (4a) VHA (yo) TepTAT (ye) HIT: ( 48) AA: (Ko) 
HTH: WA TY Grey H AT vv t 
ary arta 2 a aT & ad Sug. SahH, wo Vee MM, Ue. 
THT, 4S, BA, Go AT TAH Ut ad Arse | 
Fareoy (2) Feeate: (2) WaT (3) TH (%) RAT (4) TH 
Uey afetem (g) a frat (0) favata (c) Premafa: (¢) 1 x4 I 
%. fae, 2. qeenta, 3. wm, ¥. ofa, 4 eT, & afedes v, fanz, 
¢. fagaea, ¢. frenafa | 


“Fars (go) aT feasttqat (22) TT (22) 
Strata: taarent ant feast acre ferfaat ary i ve 
20. FH aM aria, v2. afkadt par sik 22 N-A HH FTA 22 
weary ait a sifaata F 1 
ah anist yotcare for ae: | 
anaeare fratercaad adterd 1 vio | 
HeTan sit wWeqn (ae, WM, BIR, af) ¥ ad ake wx om 
we wey ga Ha Fi att: Sat BETA AN aren a Me aT atethoT 


. . fara tiny 
& ft fasten sm aad 2 | ) 

ea sarang: TAT 

Teg aa era: Grete ae 

sft ey wea afa cia we Ga: | xe 1 

aga Ter Se aaa} few sei Fares wt aca fate tt a 

wit & 1 firrd gem ve sat a feat ana @ | ed fossa Grete 
as a ori oft ed snfe vera wferat Foot tar ei fem 3 


qeaeenfa (32) wisa wafaaradta ararfarar 

feRT: BUSTA: HATH HATTA TAT (343, 44, Row) Tar: 

Meas: WPT (30) warteataqarea4rsa (%,00,00 00 000) 

frearea ares waa wet sar wat 

FITFEA: (G3,80,%9, 340,40) Het 1 XR I . 

gfe sre @ at ad ST 22 Oyo ae Tae Ba yp ula a 

Ss Ooh ATS SS | TA Het Hl AT LAA A VaRT UH TAMA F (2,00, 00,000) 
SAWP WT (32,43,44,208) A AMT SF) Aiea BH at wa BH Ha A 
WS | TAR 30 G AN He saa EN & are BH ata fate ae) <a a 
taTT AY Ta aa waa A (%,00,00,00 000) a TT Hz 
(&3,S0,89, 34,042) @ aT & atx cfs St uery wena H weary | HA 
aor amt ores @ ate set & ata arerig & 

Wag aya: WTA Aeat Alem: Herder: | 

Sral Ad Augen St WHHL Mt Hare WE (yrow)- 

wat Shrordise ATT AMt (youc) afase YwRTfeaT: 1 yo t 

fon area & stetior Prevent & fa dt dhe gat war wrt 

at srent | (xe we) & AT ath ars w AT aa asrept & at 
aT a ste seta HAM: Glow TM Gow. Prava fee arin) wT 
stent at are rT Ya SG eri elf Ber ar vee fea Ywae 
a | 

wae are Free HET MTT GATS ARIAT: | (2022) 

MTATETfest (¥,c00) CAT: Wet Td: Vghra-ay war: 

weer Biers aar fer wett wet Te: 

Wate wad vay Pat wre Wet WTA: 1 Get 


gets AUTH, 2Q19 


ae HHT WMT Hl 2622 A WM FH Yooo @ AM SA A EMR AN 
x art HI TT Ya SOT | Hlergn arfe S ev fea & seth gra qe 
ge faara a BIRT Wa 4 sits U Ofe onfe 8 ee fer oe HI eA 
me ern | 

pare aT waers Fa weaaTieo 

aaga fafafrat: aferqard wa a a | 

tartar Fe Fa, MTT: (RIwRGRC) (A) BHarferear 

FHAMPTA: (RQVOW’) (TMT) AST TA FATYAAT ( Co) 

(q) WATT 14 I 

ofa ares aeqata & aaa a Ha Ba Ana snfe via wel ® 
zwar, qi aife (ara) vet & Ata ae ws, anfe (e) wet & aa 
woth fater H fore ora | Her ferfermt (gevense) ga itis 
(22g )aM Teeafa (LAER) F I 


ITA AHA (vgove) (Re) stor 

qafes, TARTS (gegR0R¥-B) VS Bah WT AeA: 1 

(2eqVwog Tha We) BI Aq Wasa: 

(waxggo- WH AX) A Acay 

Fe Mag FTA: (wugCKo ATT AX) 

Bacay FA FIM: (223Wvo-TTAT<) 

BST WTA AR YA: | ( RoXoYo.FA) 1 43 1 

HUTTE — WxRo¥o IPA WAQRory Ta Waly (Wawog ) THATS 

(S3xRG0), ATA HcteT (wURC¥o) FT Ate (C2IWvo) aM aeaaa 
HRIET (KoXoRo) fated wf aoa FF | 


TATPSTAT AT FAT (VRYSC- YHA) 
| Bag araamty feat (ceevco - wht A=) 

FeUTEMTH AAMT (Woee- AKITA) 

aa werfor Yohea: (towgRe) WA TTA) 

Fay @ ATM (oR WR-TATTT) 

B WH Ase Tea (RAReo- Teer wra)=Aeay 

FTAA AY TAT (RQQoYo-NH UTA) 

FS TAY CHAT (2WRRO-APT UTA) FAT GK | 

WHAT (RBWUL), MPTP (CQ¥lo) BRUNE (OBvyec) ATE aa 

(RoWBRL) THAT (RGR FECUAT WA (RARE) YHA (VER) 
AAT TGA (QVQERo) fafa wf aT Hg 


2 faced ett 


feard BONS: BT W Al (wevo) T FETA 
war: | faq areal tf (92) fra: Bafrescregar: 
eratfaitan GA WT y (2,03,019,c4, te) eT: Wet STAT 
Rers way fedta ferret BAA Wat: 1 Gu | 
POTS (YT RET HT GAT wf veivo at F v.cec) sie A WE 
arfe ar & fae wore & 8 seth fare eon af na ad 
Hl AeA FW xevo FETA S Wd Hse EON | TAH eTfsr 2x WI THT 
FaF, 2,93, 00 64242 A at =F 1 wa wean (daha arya fea 
ara a) & ares a fear tea ert | wpe Ae daria fads fer 
& aretiy €rn | 
dart: ataa gate feared qedsgrfr fia 
withicean: afer warn vatqey 
ad yatets are areerty wets Ret TeET- 
Se warfey ufsar fer wet year waqe: PEATE UG | 
wearer: we qt Ag of & vay ee & ada fea aera at 
ae ufst 8 ara 2% 1 ara: ope Ag cea a ota fea 2 sre aT 
win a we fea fret arat @ 1 ara: aera of ae af A amt & 
wd fea ao ae ef Fe Gen & fads fea eas Te wT ATA 
fen arn & 1 sad ufa fea at ae nfs ated & opie fea wr der 
we fran 2 | 
efrarepe Fe aay fet warfe w=Afars 
Wel Sex Yaor cram teste ads z fe 
Teta where: wit aft fre ae gq Ae shearers 
qatsh wfee qal stfa fer gears ayia i yet 
eet ope aa Ay FH wae wet & fore stk wet et Aayesw vir 
@ ad a sma fr art %, we afosa (are ak ale) aat aw Ae 
aft vét arta Seta AA & GR ad GAH SFT HR HONS BHT STEN 
art wa @ 1 sa fea aera Aa YS viager eft an we yt sae 
ad ofa & as asa 4 Ae A ga a gar a sa fear & fay 
wel I Aeq gan, Sa sik Ua Yau wo a feat eae! 
wert Hurst ys fers art fat: areas i 
piste afters wyfrat wereq yfaerer: | 
qafafes ae dt Praaearafe uraraa: 1 ue | 


_ qgrrat Att, ms 
aa We, FA, vista sik wa safe wr ae yo Heo & yt 
fea Gran caer Yates & ana fen sr t 1 sea Ale cit & 
faa a Ht ae Ufa Ht wel THe 1 frase oe S VE VE HI 
aaa a WaT z | 
Ta: fra (tt) SPIT: (2c) WTA (24) 
TA TAT (Ro) SIH WAX aera: (we) | 
fast Taf (0) SACAT, (3) @ AWAY (20) 
TATA WHAT (3) WAT, WT (43) AAT: 1 4S t 
BAA BT BILOTTSS YA TW BARC YI VoI¥R, 
FH, 4, Te O1BFRONS GR 
HT aT (4) fry t (x) tier aTeat (2x) Prt<a: 
(eo) Aas araarhs (Ru) TI 
¥ vite {req frit (go) Waa: 1 (zC) 
Haat (%¥) A TA: (88) H ATA: (2) 1 “4 
FTA HT HCTET AT TW. GIVER! AY 
AT VVSTS BT ,, TW. LolVCIBWi RAV 


qeera fess (0) St Test: (3) BTCA: ices itera: 
(3) Harea: (22) Faary Area Ta (22) Wrea:, 
(23) PANN (¥k) AEHAT (wR) Fora: (2I 1 GV” 


Geena Hl PTsSS Ys UW. o1BIWIVIAW YH VT BI HLM Fr 
TW. WVU 


MATE (19) TAA: (Re) WAHT (22) | 
area (v9) Ae feat wats (ax) 7 
Te Tere fears are 
wafeveiste at fF eaT 1&2 1 
; VHT BT HOTT ST TST UT. ILIV YW 
Det a era fase ae St fraren wren 2, we saree Part = 
faa, aM saga vet Waa | 

ATGAST FHT (2) WHAT (22) 
AMTSTH (wo) TERT (4x) AH (0) Ta: 
faaty, weer fest (go) fe aTEaA: (22) 
HATTA (3¥) TSM: (4R) Tarra: (w) 1 eR 1 

OA & Aa BT HRT FST TW. VWWIKVIGSIo 


Re frat wi 
ax, » re. VOURVIISBIGRIS 
Wes -eeT Hat (vw) TAT (io) Fay (2) 
qaTeTy: (¥2) Was BirTATTa: (83) 
Wyettte: ey Peat (9) SH PTA: (2G) 
wate (x) quifay (to) TATA: (eq) 1 RW 
AST WSIS BT SSS AT UW. WIV 
BT ASS | 4, UW. WIREIVI VOILE 
ater reer wt (4) TATA (29) eet 
(0) Faro (0) Mea: (24) PITS Yat 
(2) frarqer (4) Tara: (39) UAT TTT (Ye) 
TePSaT: (21 GI 


TPS ATS HT BRITS AT TW YR 9101 24 
WH ,, ,, TT. BHRWI1 RW 


wmryfgaer WaT AAA (c) 
wat (8) F AT (x9) avert (xx) few: (t0) ' 
AarHwrery UAT Tar 
TARY ST: BUTTS ATTA: | EE I 
MPT STS HT HITE FT UW. CIF ISIEIRo 
Wa sie Ura wT Ya AH WR HH HUIse aA fea ET 
© 1 (facia nfa % aro 22 uf a Herm BT B ) : 


Feary WaTST WT (3) ARTA (22) 
ATA (28) ATT Ya (4c) SE aTea: (2) 
IA WAT @ (0) WATEA: (2C) 
Feary Aro (4g) feaqat: (23) H fara: (wg) 1 gv 1 
PRK UT BI BLOMSS FT TW. BRIERE 
THT |, UO. REIGRI ABN 


FIT WAT | (0} AH AEA (28) 
TSA (go) ATTA (Re) WATT: (ue) 
qeerd Se Ta FAT (2) Fear (22) 
TT: (3) THAT (4) TATA: (48) 1 GCI 
TIM BI PTS YS TW. of WNW WILE 
TPR ,, ,, TT. WRBIGS 


yerrat TA 32 


FaTET UTATET WT (g) fT area (2x) 
TOT (3) PTRTATT TTT (3k) THT (0) 
wat: (3) @ (o) Frqat (93) Sfxarea: 
(yo) HIT ( Ye) YA Ca VAT: 1 ws | 
wr Ud AT HUNTS AT TW. WARWIRIBlol 
BIA ,, ,, TI. Bo.RBI BIR 
adit: Be ACH WAT YAT Beas TTTATAST: | 
Baryars: Vpe UxTead acta are fee H_ Tah: 1 wo 1 
amy rq A aS qo ers Way S| RUA HT UE (SR Ia) 
ae saa wo WR Hq Wa fas aM Aa FB 
Ala Waradt fersa qtifed we afed warea: 4 
Heerel TAS TTA fee Tat KaTAT wet Ast FEAT: 1 we I 
ata 3k ue aida fea A aA at fate wet oT Gat 8 1 ad 
ward aaa ak ua fart & faa ayi dear wl Hear F 
IPT HT 2,00,000 H am &, fern safe FH ae vfs aw A eT | 
Fay zor faqar: BAT Sper Werney wa F TH: 
fe at gare em: carats Tg AetyedT WaT: 1 wz 1 
Fa het HM HOMES Ya FSSA (GIA HF Gere) one wa sik Ta 
arom | Fah Fea Say say srqara GV st wha wr ara frase ST 
ara t | 
Fee Wards: A AM AH TAHT (2,00,000) 
Ca: WeTPT ELH: TAHT: TAS: WATTHT: | 193 | 
HT WPT ASA F 2 0ocoo A AMT *A W VX sia B, WA ag | 
oar A Ta TN SA K He safe ¥ gaat ad wt nia ordi F 
Tegates Gea Harfefa: wersfar: 
Qa frat: Shel: HAM YEMUTTATTA: | wv | 
a He Hl Vea Hl WE YI F Sisa (I wa H Vel a ) Ta VE 
ai aa arm 1 
QUUTGTAET AAATH AMT (483) aATTAae AY (Gx) SET 
BIATAT (eC) ATTA (2ve) Tara: (348) 
WHISATE TAT: (249) * 
are: UTaeTe: farfrarrada: (g9g) Taree Atiretar (3&2) 


RR fast aduy 

Fees (cee) Ta fata Tas fiat: (282) 
WATS TET: (3R9) TA I 94 | 

wa wR fara wy urd en fer fefead e- 

LAHIRI 4Re 

TOTS ,, G84 ATS UNA BK Gi9k 

FT, Xoo FT, BGR 

asewafa ,, We aearfa ,, reese 

WH ,, WI YH ,, WR 

XPT ,, ous VAT, RR 


wet ode: ea aber oe ale Wat ETA AL 
aerate aftr erat aeaeea: ere aft 1 ws | 
ara 3k vite vfs wa: vis @ ye at ace At adh 2 | 
Ofer we ar & aa @ Ane, ae sk wh & are ae ae vitira 
al Tifa art fesnait H et & 1 gant wet ve ape SA arg aa 
aarti 


Wet SAT TAT HE Wy Garag- 
ePrern (rex) faa aera fafert oreihcearaty | 
aettrata far farge qt (Rex) At stat TTT 
fret ferret ate ferat aeh aet TH: 1 V9 I 
USAR (MAT HIST PRT TE Awe Tarhag ‘ 
cPrer (ex) faardisardt aad fate, Ward, 
Vee (Row) ASAT Ta Serey Feroviyfe Fr 
miiregfaqeor qtr cyst dercsr HETg WATT | 
wT Gere (sorta) araract feret wz fea fausmia & saat 
Re yor | rerrzet (ge) area sreahcs ta G ee aiset yet site 
faya ter & ev ASA SU WAR RAAT | : 
WHAT JW HA Wes at waacHdt wirashPss 
frara ado sorfea are at ara Weta Hey GM: Ware: sci 
Fa VG SSA & STH TsHS FT a VIA SIT STAT AT 
ai areata & fou tfaa foe ctor 4 neay oe are ea sea 
FATA 3T | 


13 1 bP DUES bik bab Ibe itp inieyp 
| pPalsiphe} ipl? LesibibR ike ble 
(1 Q IWUD2e [Hops 
blp? lb th lt phe) th lo? RE |B Bel bikn bb I? be bee 
fe bth 2 Iblis Leth (blah) .° (ue Ue b>halh fb be) Ell tbh 
Bin} jie) | 2 Uk b>elealk blah 42 (Uke) BB ie Bip w (ah) 
yor jele 3B |piin 2bl2 aie biter kab ‘Ypepie “wepajp ‘iw - 
i) U cb prajebsk kB pak Lah 
Dib ypopiea® Yb be pap 1p 
| 2 Jo Bh lp Jo bb) PS be Ibi@ Yee p Seer Bis ‘ihioh 
Ibi@ je His se Bite 23 b Biksh b>} Phe) | 2 pike RPh ahr 
jp th £2 ilk B Jo bh) re iol p 23 We BLIhR bhak bbe 
IR 1 :Pils Jowphp! Khe ska (83) plpd) 
| phah 2d :hyyh inRpieeb? p2 
| 2 [PPh BPIhR Abe Ph bP Lele B ( sk) [yo 
Bb Bib Wd oo¥888-7ERE) Leok) 24 Lole B (IPB oe Bibs Bb Sp) 
Ipsler}2 tb Bib beak | 2 binik o% keh (ph |e |bsh) 
Tt 1 (7RA8) Ipbl ek) falbe® bib? bab babh 
hbEie (o8MBeoh) Tie tele ye J Ribs isl Ab 
| 2 [pte (bistk o8!3t°) 
fyb Ye Yeah 2h LB bits B ( Lenk) Yb bajaj Pte Yorks 00703) FEAL 
Ik} 2d Lor B ( Ile le o8 X OBE [ell jt oBt Bb) 00708 
Ie Ibo B3 | 2 kisi cob$ (th it bhb|) Bike irbals Ie Yosh 
18 1 Pebwph :h (7EAR) Leska] ba (007'03) Biwi bb 
‘Din|prislp (0083) bh «bh jpihobsh 
| 2 lb 1B » beh) b Bpwe ‘2 ils We & hip lolbyb 
Id Lbah Did) 4 Me? BS | lb RID lb af hiak oe lbb & kltste 
bipB) 1 2 yplis |p bye) be bd 2th at bak b kl? khie BIF 
13 UcER Peep Dppeb) bis wh tinh 
‘DHIbH plibre piso? Rbalteke 


blab 2163) RbUIELE 
We: Bie 


Ped fart edu 


(wpe Ute wy) WA Sane are et carat & ate wt ad (gd a 
Ufara) al Sen ea SI 
TET: AE (go) ST WHE Y AEN: 
arar fayacat fatter fer atest io | 
Sa SMA AS FY Go A TN a CE wae asa a am BA 
UW, Ara CMAN ass HY Ger Hot A AT HW .... 
AY WAATS (GoRWe) Th: TASMAN Asse: 1 
vara: ya ear Prerat aft aifsrat: 1c 
(803M) SB AMT AA aE avs snfe SMR WAG BAT B | Va 
ye exit 4 art er ot otdufs F sieht @.... 
Ofte Prar arr Arareeer Waa: | 
dard watt aad waft adesra 1 et 
at afr & wnat ¥ werk @ ce at ord aa aT we on 3 
wilfes fea, ara atk ad anfe ar wes cnr at areata & et att Sait 
Fame 
acta Sfarer arat caratea Brera: 
an waft wit sree PAT AAT 1 to 1 
es svat cian & gales era @ an snfe ar one Aa FB 
Wee QT SA & fay va wag 8 AT fia 2- 
at aferyeers aA TATA: | 
TeTRTATENTA Te Wade 1 ky 
weil w fra aaa aia W cet Yaica B eo cos aH set 
ariferafa ar sifere ser rar F 1 
Tat Fare Seq FT afer SIT THAT! kz I | 
- we Set A are ot ar ars or tt wer Her BT F(R Ae Hera 
ar fra 8) | eae Perera ar ang werk Tee 
Were aeHt: Wales caicartete | 
ager etorat fe Wear fererata: Faas 23 1 
Treat wenfa anfe ar ses cat & yatea @ aaa & ara: 
Sree Stentor ara Part B ster & | 


qaifad GEAR att By 
faacasta adterst aerttat dares 
oa, aa aifaet Geren ead TAT ke | 
za fas srethr at oft ete fat at wea @ 1 afe sas aT 
gies 18 eat eS 
TET CAST WAST SAMA Get wat: 
VE AAT Wa He WIT FH WANS A WT ey 
can ard Uf & We at sar ee at af Ufa Hr oe aaa & faa 
qe wt Rite aia awl eee set @ OM we go @ aM ea et aM 
aise al aise (Gat S uf carat & fae) a sera (ge & eat & 
fea) | | 
fe OT STE: YOU: TACT BV: 
epee aft afeqea: Pear AeTAGAT: 1 4e 1 
siaal, ef Tha al Cena SISA TON a EHS Yoffa A aM VA 
@ ot ema nfs snl @ 1 gat at cee & Gar Sitsa aT yea BI 
waa wae aa ad Tet fae: 
wer Warfes afer Aeataraefatys 1 ge 
(aren Frprent a fafay- aor gro aeq tar & eas HH EA 
are fret got area Ux WSU HT AEA we | 
TAs Ba TEA Hea: 
War NA TAHT CM Aa PATTI we 
ay tary FA Sal Wi we ST as Aa | Went eae, get ure ar 
ster @ ot ae fora St wa F | 
wre Ut Wet AeA TACIT Aeq Waa: | 
Tae asthe TOR TPS 1 8h 
ate Tort BTA S USA WET Stat Va SAAT eeTsA HEA Var (aA) 
oar 8 (Ss BAR EA) gt ST a aR Ae HIT BST 
Tas cos onfe ar eae yafefe S yTaH- 
Tem farsr coats sears Wag | 
fe at fretterara, atest At SRTAATET TI Ro I 
(G0) & at z, Serra a tos ante arret St Fetters ret G 
ot gat var erat & | 


. 


3G fasra edoy 


. a foare-ge ats en gfe: saa ser sericea 
Tet Vet Ar WAY Hear arepfersy Taq 1 BT 1 Wt 
(qa faara 8 sa) fet was a (areerfors) Te aM & faa 
ef we wha (arent). a ge was (ste Ula H ae Ta VA HT avs 
anfe) & WN aa F 1 Ae go (go cus aT faq ) @ aM 2a F 1 Ase, 
won sife wt ae Uf we FH aSaA a ee ae aT WE aM Z| 
fearat Wr Fen Fates yeId 
adeTcotiat & YY fata at Aes 1 Wi- 
aR GE Ta VER Se GER HE A cae aT Gales aries’ 
We st wa & Praites (ott weaker a SRR tar HT faga 
Wa We Gates) are Hye ST cis sik srw waa & ares statis 
et (Sak fearon ferent H Eh) OT a MEE Ht ora RTA F (HATH 
qaiier ar aa gaa em | 
aperatasartrar ex prefer aT: 
Wea: Tages: Vie qe: Get WE | WI 
Soe HSE A By Ue ae SNS aa ST es Set Ae eT 
efre nfs & Won we go @ ar ea S 
eof eae oat eferviere Tee 
«Wet fers Bey aude Wega: 1 WX I 
ad cfo-sraacernt gen @ via) 9 wea we wa ee 
wiigt 8, Sera (AGS Han) FSA W seaarfery WE A ea BTA 
% 1 sveraifarr we & feu seer wea B (Sa Oe & fore ae ETE 
area & 1 aan aera & 
Taree Cpe yey WAY ASAT | 
waa adararec arent weardarfey 1 Wt 
_ Be a free af aig 8 wet oz fir ae avs om ge ae Fey 
wa ar sat et si we sel HB aaa BevS VM (AeA HA SM 
erm). 1. 
PaAaK AOS AT ATT ATT: 
aeart: frat wet afer rea WelPaTaTT 1 RE I 
- fa ewe, freer armrana ai araaisn amie are sik um neq 
Te Wea at frat wear eI . 


arifad Gea att ENC 


TATA: Bperhes Freel | 
fart Gerd Ted We FTA AEH 1 Ye I 
qe Ufa & aK Ve sts Ua Brit aed, Epe ( aredfas) tia 
S aan sae Prt waa F ors ala Vtet B 1 ata: Bp] seedaha wT 
ge oat & fae neq otk ape va & ote qorna Geer feo ort 
an 
aware Wepaiedt 
fre ted fier va 2: weet fart: 11 
art Weep (sta Sitsewr) ta & We asrHe aw tia wt UPA 
% sea ag (sa Uf & faye ten & seg wre ue) @ AT at 
HETST Mr (tLoo) UWA: Ta EA Aes free: 
wear aad fet wot WaT Hares: 1 WI 
Fa fete Ht (3200) Ha S| wet a Te wt Shaw Of a TT 
wet Fey Ua aaa fea & sry ((2Vz,E4R) V aT S a Horfe Asa 
GEER EMT | 
rat gt werad erat: qatfe Var 
STEM: ALHAASHACT: 1 Zo | 
Fe STAR wt Te A wa H HaHa Hl NES Bisa S A Vera E | 
fet vie Go 8 SIRR WER SE HK A a H Ae aI UE 
IRR F Sezt EPT | 
AeaAatcaeray Ta Ae Harear 
ghetasr afore (200) Tet foratfe Tee at! 
SIT, (TSAR art & fee) tf & ways Ht we wt tira 
mht & WPT HE (2z,G00) B aT BX B fet safe ¥ wa eT | 
fe aT aETaHPATAT, (22,f00) MATSeY TeHAy | 
wah S: wet a ua feos WeAa: 1 321 
ATA (G00) Hl WE Hl thre nfs a am & afer a tla 
FEW wa Ham zy ne 
Tat Hake AeA Heay 
BIRT FaRTeTL TAler We BT | BR te 
WTA Geert Het ae Tear a fafer wet ordt Fi wa 
aia tfa sik ast adta (faye var) fa (ova Fea) % ata SRR 


% fart aio 
H HU GE AEH ea z | 
tend Siena dearer fracas: 
amt qeraaisdta Farfe wrt WaT: 1 Bx 1 
Reay Ua Hl Oat we (STATIN SSH), Tost Ui & str EW 
aivit free @efta ges org 4 Ae @ ones ax foot UM & sq 
(Wears UM Bs ecoo aq) THars | 
frost: terarateq dar Tea ae: 
wai Wepa a fearae faratreat: + 34 1 
wa ara Ua Ht Barfe aia Freareay atk Cat weit ar raz wt | 
qatte seq sata oa Yee VT TT I 
wf ferat Sat Mises qo Sy A: (BzeuR) HerrsaHA | BE I 
SAR Bl We Hl fs feat B Ao Hr (22,648) A am &- afeg 
Tea Ga SMT | 
we seg Ae Wea: A HATA, 
(WerRt-aaaeg wears Yaorsst:) 
ard Beg werey fH at wie WofeHy 1 0 | 
arr aeay tia aa ue HEN a Sea wa Ve FH sitet Gra, 
fayaore 4 WA w Vert | sa stk wa F gas facia eT | 
Pear fates Hareaerraey | 
ado afafh: ta ta tHe afew ftagT 1 3c | 
(at, yETAR atk SeaRR) Ta Weak eT We BT eR TE Ue 
ft fart araraa S| 
weraeny efiery Aare Sf 7 afowar | 
wratepe Wey saat: WH, UP HAT: 1 3s 1 
epe we Fae deen SA & ana ae Ute six visita 8 ae 
dean wa: ae fea wre iif ae ue ata aA a dear SF UTA 
a 
aah a: we GA Acad we WeaATT 
WaT AEA Yai AEF TETATATH | ¥o 
WAR a@a waa afe Ua & wwe aT arg fern ara 21 Wt 
aaa Feary Ufa @ Tea Vea feat are F | 


aatfad dee ata Be 


sta Spe adver caate ateHATg 
ATTA AEH TAT HA BT FAH | ¥k | 
afe tfa Fama at Het & aera feral ara TH ASIA Wear ear 
qfa (ASBHS) FT SAAR PEK TA YR SAT ster ster ST 
iret weg ufefa: tat Mare EA: 
Tam fahy BA: CATS CTA ATMA | SR I 
meq qofefea BT Stay FATA BH SAAT HAM GT ATMA WE 2, Goo He 
(qa yo Bt Hen) Ba Sa a Para (fags) S Tae aT chart aay 
zara wt att amd) @ 1 ae eM say wes BH ATM Ga HT Vr | 
ws sa oearat ade safe arsfat 
aan ard acpat qafe ucet aa: | x31 
ve frarer 4 aga oie sagan 8 & aro A gaara at 
WE Fel Vew Mess S wet Th 
waret Fema ATAHAITST | 
uarie af Peaks Baars RATT | ¥¥ | 
were & As espe A STM HT GF, Sh... HAE TH SA TH 
srerty fey 14% | 
Vie: ceattiser asa ATTRA, 
faryatat at at @ at ar feat t xy 
forrest aut 4 starter at sragae & Sat SaaS Taal Ht Weary 
Stsae oH aS 1 Be are Frafea are Tet fers we TAA UH SISA 
a Fert & an wits ei | 


wants fead oferta warn | 
Tar fet eaves: wat Weare AST: 1 XE I 
Ufsant ures fead an seit can sae ue feos or Ue areft 
Set art & streareae felt & eeatsit aH sigeat rare STAT | 
AAMSY: CIVANS Wahl Ea: PATA: 
Wares TEA, CUT WaT: | vo | 
Tifrat ar art aft @ sie 4 fant (a) ae fea arn % ga 
THR 2G to Has (sida) srettor da at fa FreRertt) 
Hey HUTeae Yat: Bera UTAH: | 
Bear ar wfrede ere SerH fers: 1 ve | 


Yo faera eduy 


(We, se, Ua sife & qe feat & ane) ae, sews ad 
fa amie at worse ores & qa fers wh (we, TH stk oa 
a) thre ufe ot fest sa 1 sien oe, are EK, oaEn siz 
are are forest ser 

qeny fraven (93) qedararfe wea 
fear ta ta Teaver frPrtae eta: 1 vet 
93 uent Haat @ ¢,2 orf eH A fares TS af signe A ST 
@ wo ate 22 Us a aif St a sas ez UM (UH aH) BETA FI 
rayaras req fart acta afeat wer: 
aaTaay Heme: Hepect FENTF 1 ho 1 

We uf F gate feat a ot am 22 aie a afte SA az 22 
afer sen arfes | ofa wes 8 car ada at wd sre are 
& wens & wey fea Gates waa & ate, vem xia suis cf 
anfe we ett | 

qatar wx Oe Yaad aie afeta: 
ea Te Fa aHfes wa Way 1 ue 

RUM Ug hI Rea area } wre ute enfe F ga sera 
asm, qa afe sarer et at 22 UP Sea eM ae Teva 

gatrres we arava & 7M: ery t 
TeSaetoy qs Ufa WaT 1 42 I 
.  afe wet wt cee ae eta 8, TaS vo Wot Mea sr vewH SaHz 
go Ba =e 1 (AH Yo Ht GSM H wesH F go B APM HY) 
waarars woarel eaat Safe Weahry 
HAT AVSHA: TATA CHATHCT ATATT 1) 43! 

te wer ta se we creer Sera aife Wer sr | 

van oe fea wa GSH St Vers B we wpe eM | 
wea we wary fava weanfeary 
(ae Uearfs ofthe xe oatT 1 ) 
We Pare Wasa TTA GN 

feast % waa sw sy fas Fo uee fea wa % Afar Wa 8 
afsa wa & ara 4 uftfere FH warqan fea was | 


qrafaa ee att BR 
paar oa dies cpctecr Sea 
at SAT ANT SHAT TTA | Gy I 
fos WS Bl WEA H srypant Vesh Ves SUH WE Vpe WE F 
aqu woSHe faa mas | | 
fa aT wry: ws, Wea: Wageat 
qanfa ue char afta dearer 
wat fart wa sarang afe- 
- fa urn ata ere ae areas 1 ug | 
arertt & We Spe ee & fare wa ga nfa safe sast att 
afed, °,2,3..fea oa & fee 14 & veal & a Ue pe ST TH 
afe 3a ta A ae vere ael St we & oa aT the aha, ga 
wen ofa sife Saat Ta YS HT 
want Per: WHAT FeNTET viye Waa 
WN Sea afar farat =fer fraefeurt ( ova) © 
T TE Hea veiegi whoa (eae) AaTEAAT 
Ta Tag Us Tet Gear War Prt: WA yet 
yatarat & aa @ aargert vie ste een fafear cvax aa 
sng aa S sat ye viee sik Aen fafa eeac ae fee 


Tere we war fas fora art yf at sae eae ees F fsa 
at 


Wea a TTS HI TAT 
st wareat sat afrasfafas 
frara edo sored set ater 
qataat (x) wae aephrars wae: ue t 
3a VaR SSRN & Saat Tsay Seas aft Ve sre aftra 
at vera 3 ware ae are ate & fae fae fear chor wr Wea 
TA Wee GH Ade Wears AAA Est | 


NSO SA 


AY CHeThaH: 


Gods: THT: 
We Spel HOTT 


Went Ver eget Tata Gat faa 8 
qeat & feet tam & fara uf onfe ti we fearg 23%, set 
Ufa stife By TT ST A A WE SPS SET Hea S | Pa was W 


we faaa 2, sat & aga wa fa % . at: me BRE FH fafa 
amet ardt & | 


Waetes wee ght aftarafa weer 
Taringa BAT Fer SHfrtosaeez 1 21 
ya & aR ace vag ae vat oAeaT a Tere | free 
arafia 8 sitfirosa (ae aaa ante) - 
arfa aafeaat arent afeat arfeat af: 
at facaT AAS: La TH WMHATATTT: 1 3 
ye & ofars et ace fer Foe a Yeoh wt after wea F 1 fra 
efrae aft wer ara 1 Agate qe FH (sazet sik wae Ais a 
farg fem 4) we mT srt stadt wis & sya - 
was aft Yate areat carerferey Ae: 
wre aere AT Geet Bp HAT: 1 ¥ | 
aed oH fia a us a of wt ace aera & | Pa sa Te aT 


earenfaa fa wee ¥ 1 ete (se) sie we ( Su) ae aT BRE 
We stem sem earit H fea FI 


qa frart-sgraem: ererer ahh eronfem: 
WMiirree arareat wert aaeda: 1 eft 4 
(qa fear a wm ¥ fies visite, dere ck od as are 
at steed afta wet at nfs a mre es 
wa Fey urdve: afta Ws qa: 
WAT AUT BAW BA Wee Bea t | | 


Reqs tft aT A ysl @ al aH Aaa sik Wet St Ha H Fey 
am & afta wrt S| 


we SEAT HUTA a 
at warait aera WAN Taq: 
Oferta aren a wie: adets: 1 01 . 
aot nora Ufa & We wea SF (fe ST UftaE Ha A we wT) 
ara ante eG: weal Ht afta ae S| sta: Ua a Tare septs 
wet WATS | ; 
aarfe ga wtarfe qf eat vedt aa: 
ae aft: wacarter wt git Fret ct 
ana, seeafa ai iia at Shree vfs a zie at Shree afa safer 
at 2 sik wer a tia & svete 8S oa fe a A Ul wT ie 
He ATA S| 
Set Ye MAAS AT TeTaTe Wea Te: 
winter wet aq: Tas Hh efie de ati gt | 
qa, ye a fa a nfs sea & ae saw ata Tel ea tem BI 
aa: qa st Bw HT Vt Sa Vet a1 wis Hel sa eI" 
qayaratiya seente waa: 
aL WAN SAT: TA TA HATY BAT WLI Yo 1 
ai 8 way a a Han 4 qu, ys, dna, qeenfa aa why 
aaa & 1 att: 
fafoat aq HVT TaTET WA: Har: 
gaat sat aa Pile ahaha: 1 xz 
gett & saat nf set we & sift eel feet Barer fa 
BA we ft ad & aren HH feast B ) 1 
wae ae ata Ga fae afda: 
aera afasfat sete ferfirarerar 1 221 
| fa a aifa ax at yet at sera fre]e @ ular we wet? 
ae: SS ol aearers aft wea wa eta eu dt see HoT 
uifa aif edt & 1 
spite erat arte apat freed aa: 
TATAHTAAS SKA BHTa SH TEA 1 31 
qu ait yw yedt stan ta & frecadt @ 1 sta: ae Ui & 


ate frame tf a ae ea &, sal WR 8 € OTe HOF Te 
aie fess & | 


HIT Wes Fens FEM Ke tarat | 
ae W yal grat wart fit fess: 1 ext 
wa & get a qe 8 rma, gears ate wht afes a ee 
Sry ta S 2 Ui seat w es SB fear EU feat Fae « UY 
SFR W Teet fern F feaa F 
ate frst feet: cart gare aearder 
Bodt Whretet WUT WeeT Vatd Ara 1 ey | 
va & aw fern 4 get ae seat facta fern F aee (Na, 
a4, 7%, tp, wha) wee- ft a sa ae at aca (arf) nfs feat 3 
ae or ferent wintate qa: 
aweT Nitetay THT ATTY Nit THT 1 2a I 
afe xfa @ yedt att ae ara ae uw A fee Fat at site stk 
Wer ft Be AR BS SRT sa ve st geet fesen F nfs (awtrfa) 
feat & 1 
warred feat werHte WAGON: 
Wea MU wer: rat Taw ATaT | vs | 
Ut a ue ean ys a ara at Ww we aT aITT Ae atk 
eitsira uf aro srafia a saat yf for 4 ofan ara 3 1 afer 
a wae F oh ya ez 2a aE 
wae Hem ght sbafetea ca: | 
Wh OA PA Aa AtaHsaHA: 1 ye I 
geat wap (Aaa The) & ax H ae ats snfe ( aia are Tet ) 
ax Fo xfa 8, ste: wa (22 Uf) sik ward (q Uf) & are fa 
aft waa at nie at ga (gedt @ eset fee) sift et st BI 
UR art Gy wat ated aa: 1 
wre: erates WaT TerTH: 1 3 1 
er otk ward 8 die afer & we (sits oafq fart ve %) gest 
O tea & fort vera a ga ak fa 8 set cert a a (ha) FT 
feen % da F 1 ora: Arq vera siz sity wt vite ofthis stern Urt F 
STi Pra Se TATA (ago) WATS: 
AAT GATS GET MAPAAH AAT FT 1 Yo | 
geal otk ta & ae der & geal we SB Sra FETT 2G0 


we SRST HOT bas 
ort Siar) HATTA efeT HAT A ar BA ae Ewe (Ko) ert 
we SUT A AT TATA (Reo) fasTiaat: | 
erotise: sfterahtea asrararay Wa: 1 et . 
_ ge SR FT BIT (3K0) BAT VI Tg sie sta e ae faay 
aia) sit 7a We HT SRG, TH aie wT ta sik Te UitieaT ara 
erm | ; 
Ha HAT Hreise THs aay 1 
arareqrarear wear wrea frada 1 zk 
wen % acta 4 ara sik oe offe a sat Weal Sa ST Ga 
& 1 ota: Fa wea A TM St oragaem aet F | 
woared=s Gare tars Bat Ee: | 
ae ara tise frtar weret coffer: 1 21 
fa anfe ue ae @ a Si a free, 3 ar ae | tam 
(Iga fag) SRI War Bas Catt (Sera aI Seah fee) 8 sreaiia 
Bra S . std: (SAB) WS BAM (AAA VE B) Ta Hl aH sewed F | 
TaeES TAT AAT: HIT TUT: | 
MATA Was: CATH: UTE: WAT 1 XI 
aT say Sal ar sirefia we at srt tea nfs & afafes vas 
Wat & aerey sade A ft gaa e . ( ad A afar wt aes ) 
ad foart - cagmitqara terest fret fefa 
yatrraperet ait att gery faery By 
a sa sr fer ca oreafita ot et yet ae ait oft at ace 
Bea et 
Ted WNT TIT AeA: UTES Heist Wey, 
Te Wasqr|s ta We ATS VET! WRI 
ve aud gad ave wi & va ve a ue at ace snaita 
wT t 1 Wem gad F ve wea 8 ve oss was arefia aa 
C1 3a qa a offer a aa & aro ae ah fargeit @ uw wt aH 
3, fra us gard 4 ae fer ye sik get gard 8 afar wet ort 


Ta WHET Th: wre, Ha AAT ae Wer: | 
we Qasr reais yo wary aya | eat Ww F 
st Ty a sree ax wa We ys fem A wa e1 ae a afa 


XE fara aduy 


(ar) aen ofa fesn at nfs sores ert 21 dt fast Terr 
Ware) | 

AREPS AST UTI Aerie: 

fatraay frey: CAI HATCH: | VW | 

We wan wha ga a ar aad @, we fora a wiht ga RT 

wl YS St His Ke Ue at eae feafa e 1 esr wT ad aI eR aT faa 
wed & be Hat okt ata ga faa ct fa-gsil w faera #1 (faa 
Wa eat 8) Ta Wa Hea SVE SM H snes aM shaq H su 
ait aren afer erat & 1 std: Ua BY Se aT Shar fade wr HRT 


AAT Sat & A ALEPH! We BH TA A afar st aes Witaat & 1 faa 
a Het FATT Sra B 


Witer-rTkrrest oe faferrer wrt: 1 
we wT ween are aragHdia 1 eft 1 et 


We @ vis (WS) geo (atgaa) A ura Sat HT ATH We BY Ga 
1 a we & ve (Gea) eco Han ura cfr fee A fasta wear 


aa 
yaf az ma: aret ae arta sitet 
ydac fafiractdt =a aeate Toit 1 30 | 
aa stk ye ar ay EF ay ear @ | Sra vita et qe atx 


Ye ei ore: Saw ura eles a ue eco H orax St Ht chert wy, et 
al Se RR Bla I 


Tait WH Bees UT UH 
— fardtay aterarert aeitsatercifta: 1 321 
We ait urd & Aha Aq TERR (UH TT AT eco" SRR BR ) 
aR a faay wet Sa e (Ge wa aa a eT 8), sitet (fast Te 
~Ro” Al Yo" SRR) WA KH Me Tales (aA) a zt 
_ Weay fora Tar faatia @ Tea: (30%) 
HTT HET (kt) VET BIT (qv) FEMA | 3 
Wel Br AA WAR ATA-=KAT 303 faAT 
ret 222 foal, qa vex fora, (qeearia a1...) 
TARY (vc)Sa YET TYAS PrerHet: (exe) 
Wr WTS (evs) TAT Gare ae Specrafays 32 1 
qeeafa ar oc fam, yar a eve fem, ae ait wr eve form 


qe SRST POM x9 


& | OBS MK CMA HT FTAA HET STAT z 
gee crt ara safe: ape aha 
aifiat wry ata: ware Wht: yar Fea: 1 ax | 
qeat Ht ade S Ci at ve Ht fra wa Wha feadt ¢ Ta Upe 
nfs wea @ | epe Tha da ger we sm (ara at art) wf, ds 
(aa) Tifa ae Mea fs (tts wT stra) 
UNL Tht: WIM Tare whrskfresarray 
qt farce shirfe wheat 1 34 | 
amt at fa ara weer wt, res at fa at were we ae sea fa 
WH VER HT PA HS var wt nfs whe onfe wet wi ett B11 (a 
ax at awe mf vet edt) , 
qd frart-astqant fase WAT wee BAT | 
aar steer sft afadsr earare fa: 1 eft 3a 1 
wi fast ATER HA ss VER a frat & as B- 8. aH 
2. ATTH, 2. FIHA, ¥ 4S, 4. Waa, &. ay, v. Ve, dar. sefaeirs | 
uargfe arrarn asf afar aa: 
FRAT Y AT AT ASAT: AM AT | Cm 
WS a nf care Ba aa ea et ord B 1 Ta aw Nfs HEA 
@ 1 drs at ma ses eA wR aed &, Ta sree aft Hea e | 
wisn ta free eT Pra Be 
_ Umcarit foriret wre, uare<ae wa: 1 3¢ | 
santa sry st S Gect IM Gare SA UK WE Sl aha ya ert 
&, Saat we He Aet SA H arent fawn Bet sa z | 
aera SAAT SACU BEATA: WATT 
TH ASAT AAT AeAqea: Wha: WAT) 3% 1 
we nf wea nfs @ Hy Sl AA Be Wet St a Ta Hea Aha, ae 
Wat a we nfs wea S 1 eae nfs ye nha & quar Ba va aA 
Tid mea 2 | 
wearicet adarar errr yet rf: 
safanan wet wadaa Aft 1 vo | 
we nfs eam nfs a srfae St am ae tel a vite a aM ae 


ee aL Oe na ape oe a een ey ee 
l : 


eA farsa 


aie wet AAT AAT I 
eit wiser gfe: gdaq waeirar 1 xe 16 : 
va sit we a ate orator } BOT AZ, AAT, aH, wi sh | 
efter & abe wae sat wfrat Sete, Farer are pts tt : 
wt frart-aiste amnbact aear ca, Cera Wet: 
wart careers Bpel SOT ae! AT VI 4 
(qa ferara 8) er afd a aren sore ae fares WEE Be ET | 
wary RK Usa & (Ta es) TS fora ara ep] we Her st fate 7 
set ated Tare | 4 
ararka war aft soft aaar wa: 
wat ferret afaren agent wahrys ~3 t 4 
ara 3 sn sik ara torn + fafa sem ea we ferent F se | 
@ at faa aM we cit smart vedt wre wea ZI 
ata wre fer ae agit: aad Tar 
Wet: wa wa RT: Wegedist WTA: | vy | q 
aes fare PAE oT @ stent @ ae Sfga Se Bi set war ts | 
ft aa sa a set var afsa do & (feet a feet Sia wT | 
SB apd 81 gaat sft Gea z 1) 
Saray waa Aes yard fata, feraraa: | 
wre: Vaa Stet sare West Wada: 1 xy | 
wean Hae ga (fsa o at) @ we a fate feearfa (HIT wR st 
wa Frerert & feu neq ga a Ue aT ak fawta feen aw sat zt 
arg Hl Sat aaa SUS TTS H Ha elm F  TATS B St TIT (Ges 
A) set @ 1 ota: Te I wT A wea eI 
Wah UH aes Fa BP Aa 
Te Care Var aeren SravSat Aegs | ¥e I 
way Sit Ta H St sas am ara (aq) wt ifr dead F | aH 
ar a amt H aiz4 are xB ard eet Lar Ht cava HET ZI 
ATA WRT Tre yaa TAA: | 
wet oare ee fea TAT Fes: I ve I 
a ust (go) at Sa atk Stfesn aT aA Sra 8 a UAT 
at sar sarang & aaa atk SxS eer dt 8 1 wa saa AAA 


qe URS HOM BS 
ag. aa Bar 31 Safe a eT a Sr BR ST aT ee 
Ua: VOUT: WATE Ala Aa: | 
Tf FAT (Reo0) BAY AMT: (2Qq) WHAT Te Teat 1 ve 1 
uff HT /&& AM Ua Val & Vara Bal 2 1 stat: aS sa wT 
a aurat (WTa:) SPT | TAHT HreT TST ferat (xe00) HT ve APT ( Hh 
aftfa @T Yee S) WW Was vars ( I SM) H aeR Sa 8 
A BVSTAsaae TH sa fos aries: 
aediaara edla avetan fae wad! xe | 
ueet ST a Wa AVS & (0 Hl SM -o B) | fata Goer 
(qect wa aT gad a wera a wa) rarest & fae yas avs a 
wa at sat sat (fas) @ um zag aise His fos B sea B 
(RW VY RVR, ) AS BST (RW¥) GUST BT | 
Tae versed fetta STs Feat | 
Ge Tz Aw WT: Taratfiray Ge 1 yo | 
fadta wusrat aT Vea wT A aSA @ fade wa peyecam 
@ | Ot: SoH WIR GUS G MT AaB, Bs ale say ona B aris 
(RWW A safes) sara z | 
aetares By cet ard Hay Was | 
fata ave frat decouly Tela 4g | 
a Be ao we AAS 1 (afer A HS orn Fel) ea fea Hr fadiz 
WSR A Fe W Wits GSR Bra z | 
ae an fadta staré rte wars frees: 
aera wae frosrsz ter creat Aa: 42 1 
Witte Guern w fad stars 4 ate & ala Sars a fave 
3a S| FA VER SH A wT faosi wr ya fies @ aM tar Gos 
OYA RH SN BISA sit B, faa fase favs A steer amet 
favs ara @ | 
agfdafa aos oy: wren free fafrat 
faq Srftrosa: VET WANTS Aree eft 4a 
Ta VER PATA 8 a ex Stes (forest 8) WIN faeq waft 
Trae WAS €,, 22... 
use fad wae we faeMrcnee Aa 
Br Wats SH WHT Ae Taga | uy | 


| Djlie tp tt B biz Ibe PRS | ria Ibs puDe 
pyle yp tt th biz B Pillbe be the ajite hIPS “pips; ‘beh 
1331 PE BbrMe :B> de Ahip Pepin 
Asgab QUES) 22 [Filho Inks Pibets 
1 2 Aplin [Be Lan BUDE fue [eoke 
td bie | 2 WPID Wa} (PERE) Lbs fp RS LP (BEAL) Ibe be be 
Lok | :1eSob Dis biibe Phalbie Lpokuy p 
(7ta%) :bBb Dbrrybrb (SEARS) Unk Ieih bbe 
(S°AG) Ibs 
fo Sb Ld (2HEE) Mes | (Bete) Lhe Yo o& “(Bh2E) LH |p 28 


ith | (RoR) beripinie-lee> (Ante) Lebo B) bs] ib 
(Sd8t) cbBb kryeEsw (SHEE) tinh Phiepch?r 
(QANSE) Len 
be 2% (270%) Ips Jb 3 (7ABE) lke fe BB “(dh7%) Les Lp hs 
17h t (Nae) :bBb We Spek (AZ0k) te bO ble Blpd » 
(70d) ibbribk Sesprp (dh7t) Ibbbalbeh yp 
| (PROX) Lar Lo 
AB LUpP( WAHe) Les Lo “3 (BERS) Les Lo &3 (OBES) LH Lo 33 
1 oh 1 (780d) sbbaiebbalrwed (h7hd) Injielphb} Albch 
(BRAS) sbe> PoE YE (ABLE) IgM | be Babs 
| (8208) Las 
Jp of Lad (o8%3) Las Jb & “(B8NB) Lbs | 7 (okhy) Les |p H 
tbh 1 (8808) sbbaprbritrink (0323) IbPAPUS Erb} 
(320%) :b>Ieh hexe@ry (obhd)Lb beh bbIDb-ls 
(H383) Lee “hods—[pbth o87—Jb A “BaB—p e “SAR Be ‘LHD] hee-lpo 
{28h (lb 4 Jielbs dle B 2°3 B bw Dee Pp bleh) Ph) 
Uwe 1 (h883) se> ol heinte 
(hott) IbbeIkbeh (087) jalesoib 
(30%) :bPIReIB he (222) Wne)e 
‘Bs(hdd) eral pp isa ph 
| Lg 184. 
Iba B Db & LB! doijiar (ISIE Bb sa th E12 kite B ible bie b 
held) Urblis (2 HES sible MA bk g Soh} tbe bp sb‘od‘arhy 


loh> B-LPy oh 


| 88 Ubpeyaneiapadh chs Bh piailis palisk 
bPpUibpaie Bib babe iy step 
| ( Bibb lo SE be DIF) PR) 1 2 PIB lheaiy pe 
bib Die ib ibeish B bib (bl) blk Bible 1222 bbe b Dh bb) 
| 2 {pia Ibeeite BP hip balk IP Iboisk jo bib bl bk DW bb) 
173 1 Bys I Ppt ie Bineajie ibe Sie Sipe Berk 
i Pps ph ae Piketk bbb} beh ip 
rR 
(plls Waldo] Ihoaiide de tbeisk jes | 2 Dike Sede KYA th blak 
aibah B BIKA dike Se Db th bl? IAU> | Blt bak B Bi>b 
03 1B ppl ipsish> Leb Ph Bee ple 
1 Pkal&b| DIRUE IR IZ)>-b bale Bit 
| 2 (7RAR) Soh] do Pipohoe jp 2 ip (&3te) (2722) Lo 
32 Sohj s Bibs hye po ed Uap (Bee) be LE (B7dBd) Le Bs 
133 | cle Soh} Ribs buOS (7ERE) Lol Mel belate 
1 (R3ke )sheeine depbih (978) IgE kbE Alpe 
(eysad) Le o& ‘(7aHe) Lo BB‘(EEEL) Lo 7B (ELBE) Lo OB 
W831 (aba) tea BL br} (7xhd) Whbpibjab>p 
(RES) sbbapliol bey bih (E238) Inker hebaliiol 


| (7%d8 ) Le BB LP (B33) Le H3 ‘(7eH3) Le RB ‘(h2RER) LO EB 


PAB 1 (738) die Biper (2303) Lee Wh hepk 
(2eh3) swe Rylirioh (WAT3) LbiEIWS bIoris 
(3Q83) Lo BB Lee 
(A003) Le &8 (th7) Le 38 ‘o8ea) Je o8 “(deh Le % ‘(oBA) Lb ? 
1 eR 1 (3a83) ele pehhe 
(coy) IS-Bbb) desire 
(827) Drcdprky (08M) Wie Sd) 
(dah) Jak¥ibt (082) lop Be 
| (whe) Le b 6 Leb (Bd) le SB ‘(873) Le ph ‘(@83) Le BoE 
(33) Id bIpB (2%) Le pip) ‘IRb} (O) ths bE fb Sok? bh 
[23 1 (ahd) ‘WeIDS pions (388) Led bhhe (873) Leaps 
(ad) bay-R (ds) Jepnr (8) Leb? (a) PER 


3h lore [ease Bit 


“UR faara efor 


seer are & for ax (FS TT AT ) ST Ue a (R0°) B A 
a sat a ysrara a Sn, 3 afer A afew Se OS wg ah seh 
R SM ard arat Tet SoH ST ST Ss eS ETN | Se Ui a 
afar 8a wm sea & UP Are are) ATT at ST a ST SET 
ert | 
aaled wag at fartea: aifeefoera: | 
WMerpy WET WeUSy ara TTT AH Tt wo | 
a ¢ UPS a sf BA Uw Ta 22 Uf A sera arat @ ST 
area Ba SWS ST UPR Sit aH 3 UM (go) B ae a FHA 
art aife wed @ 1 wet are afer (ees) Ger ufe free Fert ara 
(sie) @ sifsew St at ger Hee UPS (aT) GSA BI 
aed ferara-forarererayt (224) Heer tree SOSTTHT TAT I 
Ta TAT caer: Soret catfeaty (224) Fa: 1 0 t 
fara are (HIT) St Sat Frarerat F 1 ST TA (AW) FT BM eH 
afer Sr aes HT GEA (Vv AS) Sr | We aM as say ST HT 
Ta si erm, sad ata eu warftes ak adara sarftos } on a 
TT AL AAA AM ear afesg Ht fase (a) wa fos F VISA SB 
SE ag at ea fro @ 
Se STG (faa) / Ry = TY Ta BN aS a Gem + We (ATA 
TA WIS BH WH AMT) We x (ada Varfaes - Ta SaTfaTS) /2IW 
+Ta wa fous = yee arg wT a furs | 
ITAA Wet Arey vaTheSs TI MAH | 
aa wr fafaygaeeata waft: 1 gfe 1 wz 1 
seraen a at set fafa ert | (qa fas Sar ware) 
safovss: aria Wet AVS Atha 
Be aearfra (Rw) Word ear afRatT TW wy i 
wr froze @ arg aa & fau sae wae ger wn favs aI se 
HeT wTS PITES HORRY TOM La S Ta Sfavs den sera FITAITS 
a Hoa ea 4 
AaaT SANS YT PRAT HATH! wv t 
HA BT We DT IPM FL IPRS Hl Ta QVe Ht PT * are 
(Favs Heat x Aw) H area # at anite wn saat = 
ye erfvos-aqenseafies = Wy (STS WUE Hl a Bie) 


¢ 


WE PEST HTL & 


TT K BVYq 


Fa GUS oT a eS Fos + wa wat aos) | NS 


fret ante (geeevy) sere aot aera: 
ue alfe Spat ale we cieet fr areTarL I 04 | 
ferent & ysreret FeTat VS I Ger Asrara al Hifeen ere 
2) cot ven aifesn & wa fread @ 1 (fa sie ae & fer) 
cafes + sa = fen” ) 
St UTA WH WaT ATT ANT | 
a wires HAST: WAT: UMA 1 ws 1 
ae, qu a wit a werea atk gu vinta st ak dis art 
fesnait 4 fa waar @ ara 8 We arse Uh 3 ad wT He 
atl € aT St Vanl Wifad wea z | 
¥ wat: yeh: ee: eirerta AEH: 1 ww | 
Hey a S & UM (Rdo0) SRR WM AT HI We AM aT AAT 
wl We ge or vitae * an qesista ow ule qe a ate 2 | 
qed (Rc) We: UPtes: TT TeT UH: | 
aerate aeaste + Gear: Brera: 1 we | 
nem wit ec? a ad wt Mt & Ale HI We tea Fi We 
Wate wt ae sexe ore afd 2 | 
VARS FAW: TI ASAT AAMT: 
Teat WHET: Ula WEAwA BHAT: 1 0g) 
Tol wer srieq Gen Sit WE areas 2, wet H ai siz sae 
Tam ore Fy eI 


a At sacar Ya Wearwershe | 
sive aft ara Twrcatfe eifsetat: 1 co t 
4 (gait wet, sonst at aft get aa @ et tat oT aad 2 | 
7 tt cfg & ut al ace wad ¥ eran ae we fear Wl fear 
Se F aet cel oreo H erat utara set Fea EI 
wetter gf (xc) sia WeTS: wayqaat 
Wreeq WT Bx Seat gear Bredhy (eco) fee: 1 cz 1 
38 & vite an ade wd wh & ate @ Sah We we Ue 


ux fost ed 
wera 1 Be al Sr Prarer HT (G60) @ AM Hr 


WAPAMET (Roo) FT TAG Pera (av3¢) TAeTfey 1 
THe Heferars CaM Ag Wal: 1 22 1 
THe A (TT SN VA Gh fea) 300 S PM He PASAT (3¥3C) @ 
am 2 1 faarfe wa a ex Fare (g Uf) A AA a sa als A 
aS set qenfe F ey a gers 
wR dene at Haft eps: ePeT: | 
shret wat efter ak tarfe vem 71 cz 
Fant Seer Mean (Ase rat & fae wera ae genfe uierat 
% faa ate’) qa ® vita & faa far arm @, va var da ai 
(qa & ae ok vite ta aM wire Ate) at SHS AA set FI 


(Ta Weta HI Spe fastest & fer) A as es 
arfe « uf 4 waa 


Aaceate werafal qrecert FET 
welae faxiearea agaseat aerator: (wyo) 1 cv | 
pe We wt sravaea ret @ 1 ete ex HH onfe « feat 
FWA WW Ada Weer Fa VaR eT | va ad afd Ana wee wt 
wWra 8 geret Fe (WR) Freer | wR ST ST Frepprerat TA vyo 
= 


eared fase were Hx Hife-HaT Tay, 
Praferay (4 ¥oo) WAT AeHd SATE: Spe: 1 ch | 
we TT He FAST (BRC) SATS | Ha HT VAS Vile Hse ST 
alfa Sar HY He A PM BT Goo (A UP Ht Hem) VB aT Sf 1 Sar 
O wea wl We HH sq way « F Hh, foe Han fad dea 
arm & sea & an den, gfe, 94 & fa wera | aXe A ee 
erm | 
TeeHe a ATTEN TART, SHE TTL 
Heard Wear afore wt: wlfewe Ts 1 ce 1 
wera a tire fa ane wae & sa Ale Vera (THR) 
Waa BY Hx HSsaM FH uo A WAT Ht FAST (3¥32¢) SAMS | FE 
TTS ST EH ST | Wo Ao BIW sa vite alee F 
TNS, wo” @ ago BA RW eva | Ga Hl AhrwH Hey nfs A WM we 
fast (3¥3¢) @ a7 2 a afea dna aie FI ate & are tha 
nfs erit | 


ae BRST HOTT baal 


wa aem rea fae: ere we TaTEeTy | 
PTET SAAMI AAT FTA: 1 co | 
sot want St HI We ak ale oT SRR Prare Seaet afer 
Gt zoo A WT BT (3x32) A aM eo wae Hfewa frers 1 wa 
aire wl wis at ef aeaqe nfs @ aoc fee avec B aT aA 
awa dep at are at tte nfs ent | 
qa eR ws (Vise & foe -ga a eters qa a 8) Stern 
el ego WT WHT 2¥R¢ ATT AA A Ae (yea) wT alfewa EM | 
za qa vista at tra Hers oft B yo ae fae avec B a AA 
awe gy vita at thre qe af ert | 
ame weatfe THs BRN ae vata: 
aadate qearea dared art The: CET 1 62 1 
dopa ate at afte ats ote ax at feafa we Prk Fae 
ax wes ait age we 8 ek @ ae Aha sy a acs sik faite sik 
ada ae 4 ek 8 IS ot acs ST a 
at vise ait term nea uid serere (teen) 2 hres ata 
WS A aH BA UW Siga S 1 A sh wt dep BAK sera F | 
Hela HA we wer wey fe sea 1 
WH ATER AHLTAT: (2,Goo) WLRA: 1 8 | 
fare ve ot faa oH are a Hoy HoT e SUH Fa Hl Ben 
(RR, Goo) A TT He 
PART (3xRC) TeRe THT AAAS Ufa | 
FTTH AT TAT KAS VET | Fo | 
Fen (843¢) BAM SI WW We Hl re Uefa ard F | WA HT 
ea a stfeen Br a ae Ufa at ea a afew ent | 
a Wert wifeon oath eas: | . 
apr MPT pe FAT afer: TATA FrTTA: 1 ge 
ana, qeeafa sik wht at vite aftr fadta stk age wera # 
ag urdt & sik fart wera A a ert 81 ae siz aH at ete uefa 
I sa Seer er 81 fas gerd 4 afee sik aH A aT 
Wafrard-wfa ae uftede ara: (ex) sft cet: 1 (82) 
Gare fread 7S (Ro) feat Frarerat: 1 eft az t 
aa fears & separ -2fe at we of ara cer A ew otk 
sit (farwa) vera FH (2310) SR HT Tat va aM verde wx 


ue faara adoy 


ufefa (32) Ta sist erate ae Uff (agivo} Sr (fares Te F 
ro fem aa eri) + 
SMT (2310) MATa (ye) ferPrarway: (32) | Bt 
WR ATS Seger: Uferara Perey 1 83 
Gand eee ea 
% ufa ak TR BT CORT HAN Blo TAT BAe BPA | 
TACs TI bh war fraaa: . 
HUAI SH WAY Ae athe cae aa: ew 
AA aeaat @ SAT at afa det wT sie qa wr UM srt Fa 
ea Gt atk we at oahtfe a uarr frame & | 
Re HAI MATEY ATA: We afer wife: 
WS M ATT (Re) AH TART AT TMA (3RIG0) AE 1 gh I 
re Se oitst (farey) are F rea oz eet wt are Ufefes 21g Ha 
Al SKA HT 3tlZ0 HET F | 
TAAH TARA THT (82) Fra: (RaQ) SPAT 
aera fre (Ys) PHATE: (2230) BPS TAI BEAT 1 ke I 
afa a a ae aye cera F ter uz seeatefs (egigy) cen fad 
Tet F (220) ST ta A cf ste aR wt oe afer Frarert aT 
Ul Hel ST eT eI 
ta eft Sz afew fret (3432) AT wfearRe: 
waar wRifel et area gfe (9c) ferfirar: 1 got 
srq waa Foca at ae uff Frere & fara ta we He aT 
spies BY eV WPT He fret (avec) S aT eS 1 Ga Her safe F 
an 1 we es aH atk waged Ge F wea Ra HT HA HT ve B 
erat | a os fads ok da ae A Tet aH ee Hee HI ee F 
SSH | 
SR wifey aera (3v3C) AT RL HATA: 
aie: afharwrerararag UR: (2zIG) SHS: 1 Bet 
Ort wart & wa A a<aex Steen SB mp HT SM (avze) B 
am 2) We we He A AS are fata otk waet wera A A HK 
ats ae off (221g ) Weert | ae Ta wea SI Ve Ue ETH 
ora Marit & faye SISA | 


we RST POT oe 


ud ger faut ard. eqeagq cars (8) TT ARI 
orfae ve at aragears Ma: 1 88 I 
gerry % fre Fa eR Fe Ueee rare are | KSA TTT 
ze feo gaat otf TAT Aa Ue fran & aren ae uftfa fara 
at sad Toa ¥ <3 AT Ss Sa St eas fark ud ate (atin a 
aan HI) SH GAA Vet 
farirem: FW (38130) wHifesa WfTt feat (3vac) Te: 
Tr: (30) HEH AwrTet werhe AnfayH, WHE: 1 Yoo | 
ax aXta Ht atfeen St a0 FM ae fren ( avec) Bam 
2 | worfe we wT Use ae ot onfe « Ute A wea aw fas 
Gertrare UT (3R130) FNS VR AS Sex Te safe « UPS A eA 
R Fa Hare Ha Hl Tat (330) W Fey | TA UHR VM St HS 
aff epe ert | 
PATS TTA WISHTAT (G3) Fre aTea: 1 (9) | 
arat ferrat (3¥130) STAT (22) S WISH: 


(3%) Offer 1 yor t 

area at te oftfa stenfe ge 
ay i is Ww 
Rita 55 5 B¥130 
Ws, . RQ 
wt, r 38 


Shar ued sare. araraserfta area: (232) va fava 
(238) & FILA (90) YRS TAT (REX) TATAT | 02 I 


ane awed wt ere afa- = tae TT 


ce ” Bs RIS 
qeaata a \go _ 
UF ” PY) REX » 
ce Bs 


TATASAH FT THOT (V3W9) AAMT (evo) Tada: (&) 
BAM TAT (RRR) WMT (32) TAIT Vpedlegg 1 3 I 
sts ward A vite offer 
ATA-Io SIM, FA-Wvo Bier, Teas, ge Sie YH- eZ sie AM 
UW 3 sist 


ue fast edoy 


atte am versie wftedt Mam (4) eat 
Tae STAT (3¥3¢) Tet Tenet Hfoatfawy | gor | 
epe He atk site uitfa fraerey at fafa - sit atk Ara vera 
et ite aftfia apr araz (2 sist) SY Bie BR SEN BIT ez fen 
(2¥3¢) @ Am 23 wat Ga eT 
amy werd afeat weft wifsadt aa: 1 
eT ATA at afer Ala UAT a: BpeT: 1 Youd | 
za vis uftfa sea ana foot vera ofefe A aS gar site 
uftfa wea waa Tea sera | 


gH fret CERTY Hz tt SfersreT: | 
MUA: (30) WTR Hrs: HraTATH, Uf FS: 1 Yow I 
se war Fret ava et ope vite aftfe F saat vite SR aT 
PAT BY 20 UT fray & Aner wl sifa |pe site oftfx srt | 
TS HR ATT A ANT HAT YT: | 
waat et aa (c) att fart yftrdifer (x) fH 1 g0K 
tet wet We Ufeferarera A eg sie Stet F 1 ote Hea H aes HAA 
®e fer tie wer tee See Prove ae et ake ra HoT -F Cae arfe 
ait we srt 4) ot am 2 fe saat wae Frere 1 oe x HH 
anfe 4 OA wR ¢ sis B ste ex one F SA Bw sist B PM we - 
ward Tier FAT (RVI) TH Ger TeMfe firera: | 
watara peta Utena: (G3) 1 toe | 
Se UM (w4o) Hl SM (Qv32) S aT WA S 1 sien Wer w es 
ait F sitet 4 ge cena at ope Bafta fread & 
ata PHATE UENTT FF | 
= TUTTTETAET (xcRc) FoATA: ATZTAS (guke) HATH H 1 08 
ANT ACHR (¥CEL) ST (WEL + Y4R0) Fora & aa 
qe-atetaferara: (24,¢v2) SIRS way FH | 
aerate: faq wet Her FTA (eerRiw) 1 ego 1 
AT (U4, 282) FAT FT (WU AwI+ Ro) F Sa F WA MW Taal 
weattia sat Bt ert 2, fertat ae Se A TPS (Ro) BA KW HaHa 
(RUG) SAT FI 
qaerrs aaare, fire, waearey FaTIST | 
Faray eee ferara: Carve UPA: BP]! (ekg) 


WE CHAT HUTA >) 


ga wm a Hs fora we FB sa oe aoe ote AT Hat FH 
at eH St sant ST ae Sam a aise won a He Ufa (eW) 
& aa WW qe Bl ope we afefa ert | 
rer we ithe: ax Mrsatfar (2) atda: | 
FAFA (2¥3¢) TTA Harenfe ea, Spe TAT 1 VII 
Be HT HS SE STS ST QS ET He Fas (33¢) @ aT aa 
a Ue sist oie wr re oefe A ( 22 sie) @ Fe WM YH BI ape 
ae ufeft eit | 
qt frart-aen qa aifest arerier (3¢0) fanfare | 
a asa water feared wea! sft ye3 1 
a faard & aren cepa we afte wt re Ss at eT a 


ak we ex SES SB WOM HT (R60) SMT AA a HAM: HS THT 
ak a HY Hifener erat FI 


AA AAT (RRQ) 7 FAHTAT WATT, TLPAAT 
WAS ACA AY TAaTHA BIT 1 wew I 
RW WaT (3° vy) BT A siz ST 4 sta Bet SA @ arer facta 
OB He VG a SAT a ST Hr ara Friel Hl sazaed aet 2 
eae sifaa GA w et wn sie aq Fraverd, snfea 
wt frart-se aicad 2 qHuel at way 
Ueerg fi tat (gvac) aT Haat et wifes wen eat ey | 
Veit 223 S aan sia afeaa from ac vita arx nepafe € 
uf A wa uw seat fem (vac) F aS sea usa A fea a 
erat t 
weAas Tart Tet aT HAT | gg | 
a Hea Bl A aifea garner & atk fast F SSA ver ars F 
Fe ST ST (ATT Ba et) A Sat area | 
ad frart-a ag waa syed Sofsrerfac: 
Pearce gare wer oot faarisrry t gx | 
HST ara ys sit aife & oof at cise See aha Prereat 


@ vita sof art 81 ystect ar fas (QvR¢) B rar vite wot a 
AT SI WA 


&o , fra edu 
weres ard feorfc wet tem fee BTL 
Uaerel SA ATs Ba HAT 1 eve 1 
afar foarte ara at sitrna wea & 1 Ane anf ura ae 
yay atk aael deer & ara sia 2 
are we aed ahretar aaleat 
Set are qaate wild wears THAT t eee t 
gi atk aan ae wer acl Us Gea A ee SB WET 
trea anfe ura angel Ff site wa a Us eer SET OW ee HT 
al dear SA ued & 1 frees WS aie ar fee Vite Gat HT eee 
HAT Slat Bt 
aaife HS waet ae IH a af 
aa wernt farife qareray Aa Ws eyo 1 Br 
wa site Se awe ec Uf a Ha dar ei A ee wa 
we wa BATTS ot & gafere wa Hat A Gig Sra F 1 Sat BER 
ufer & ata sta % wa Ga Vera sal & | (SSUET BAM) 
mea Se Wore Wea: Wert Te: 
Agha FEAT GATSA TW TEHAT | LAU 
ae ve F xis Wa Bw sien Bent SA A vars TE Bim 2 | 


were Ue BH Aled S Ve ww ait Sz anfe em Taw GX Ha a 
SWAT A WIA We Bl We HA w- 


fadta Ret WYSArA, Aq, THAT HAT | 
TAHA AEA AS VTE TATTH 1 YI! 
facta we drt 2 1 fadta ve at ys: atte O Fer w SI A 
PX AM F TAH eH B fads west Gea Her B Tata De sa 
et 
Agiraresr aA AHty BHA: | 
dena: opan afa TF Gating 1 23! 
qa He HE ae HH Visa sey WT Vie BR sreT FI 
sae virswa @ ata we ar deRK He W st age DE sas 
ad arta H me we 2 | 
frag: weravafard, gorerq Herrera: 
FEN (yo) SST Hef fagara Werferay Fathers: | yy 1 
sate Fras art area a gta six wae wet at Senet + 


ge RST SET ER 


qortat TAH fo HTT BT Tet stars Hot G Tart A ae ferarfe F 
wa Bat e | : 
We Hy Se Hemel way ay-ape: | 
wrens ase waatfeey Ware yk I 
way ope & fot ga ferfe Ga aI A HE AG ofa & UAW 
y wea we ae (SEZ) We F TSN, svat TR A As eR TET 
aera | ae or aa ae ae oh orfe uferat A eA a - 
wa WHA (44) Tea Ae Hlfesray FAH I 
pared cet Ta Ge TAHT | Le I 
aad Ga FT 44 @ Sere Ge A ae Ses (ATR ew aM) 
a yn we sae wef SB aera F | 
Wsay Wend Vee TS: TIE TAIT 
TAT WHS HAI APRA USAT: | VWs I 
wens Ha HTH Ve H Ge BVT KN Uw UpE VE era eI 
aret dept De wT a Hz Na atfe « UM A TEA Ww WS We 
SATAVTH F 1 4 A WS HIE UE VM ) 
We Wena wes sree MATA, 
WH, WATS YAS TEA Het APATS ATH 1 Ww 
We Wed qa H Vlas a 4a aT Ht Vera A TT vita He 
ata ¢, Wes Vite HATS Hl usrH Ta Tae Fra x ef ward dep 
Fe F WHA ATH | 
wear ade fate neq, tread BTA 
ae Bar| (eco) THATS Sais SHS 1 vz 
SHOW: aM we WG, fede eM RH TU site Ga & sng a 
Tr Ft Ts Ha H stem Ta Vhs Hered GT PT ae age van a 
Pare 14 site wend H ant é | 
Req aha, Ts Beara fea | 
aagdrs seq wae FAST A Tar]! go | 
Oo ST Wdlarsy (Ys) WH Wa 4 Ta ASS A BA SU HM 
tet ewe sal 8 1 $a VHS AS HA A IY Ae HI UTE aT 
oe TF aq vita we free atk cea 8 wa fade tena 


Pol ira dear & athena (He BT fea) @ WOT He FHT (a¥32) 
aa = | 


ER fara ede 


aaa Hed Tay HATeHiS AEH 

We Hx CES Terese qfafdaeaa i 232 1 
- Fea cafes a dt ae Ss 4 SS aT Berd (Fe Se HS onfe 
& Ufa Hwa RK HS seam Vet) aus vita wa a dega Ws 
we qa @ afrepe din 8 | (at fag & ope at Term 4 afew 
Ws erat F 1) 

yat we fer Se Te Harfa: 

epefe aera fefsaq, terre utter | 832 1 

aa wet at aft a fara fen sma 2 1 ae af wfaaror acer 


& Ofer at warra feat & et ope Vet H se Hr sa fea Ht Spe 
nfa (sa fea & fare gers af) ert Bs . 


Weta qfw thea aea qfeneerat 
we HK Ta: VT AS HSHeA STAT | 2a I 
Wea at ef fa at oe BT Hears Ufa @ Bert S AS Hs BY 
afre ufa et & 1 we Hx at Chew nfs a ve afeea FT a - 
afar farsa (3630) THTTSeHNT BAIT | 
pratc Heh Wag auet w afar wx 
morraet fem (ayze) B am Bw kfrw we fs wa Sa 2 
We osx od anfe & ofsat 8 wa wa Te SI Gem Tifa A TSH, 
werafe & uferat FT aA a TeTAT 
, Teer wenn gfe A URS Tftag, 
Wd: OT AEHATTATAT ACSA FAT 1 Vae I 
Wa Ga We BH taupe wha era 8 | Ys seq V ana fea _qaica 
We (steRta) Fe Te Hl Aeep]e nfs ert | 
Wea THlt ate fares a: wareas | 
THATS TAS TAT THT ATTA 1 83e | 
gales & waa we a sik ws oT sre ae fate HT SY SraTA 
fream & saa fasta wre A ae a woe nfa fers sae fae 
wl WA: GES HW EF 
Wear aa yaad mare wares: 
— Mrerfe wrt cart Ve Tetra 1 230 | 
wa wen fafa & anfe sik ara a citer aed Bis & fou er 
& | Feel MaaHA as & Ha ATS TI UE S aaa A Gee zi 


a@utte frerasaa saaeny aa | 
aq ret eperhar: Gator fray | eRe | 
aq STAY CATE H HTT & fre FAT VAS BY stagaHa ay 
s | sax fae epe a aear ae wt efarn ata srr et at aed iT 
ae satan efram nfs ert | 
sista fe deat ar win ax afar 
WAM BH (Ro) ANT: WH AMET MITA: | 23e | 
sire uf @ ve afew se Sea | Vie Hee a fa Stet EI 
sita Ho HT So feat @ verazt 3 Ga a- 
waren foros arte at aH SR aT TA. 
Tra seoHutat wage feerrtq 1 yx | 
virracraticsn freert, Te vita ex a thre af S ToT He 
aa oof (xia wot) Ban S| aa wa Tl Viera aha a Hers | 
waite ope wha: Ber aie aha freer: 
aeTacaferen aq wht awte Begt | exe i . 
we wre ope Th et 1 afe oH we vires fa @ ster et aT 
vita ht @ we wT erat | Be aanfa Eri | 
Ua weEper vite oper qhefisfear 
epe gfe tata Bao fafaeas 1 ev? | 
a Wer ta sit ax Bl SIS SFI GY ART Wei HT ST Gee wt fa 
e-41e Upe sit xia epee | fa sie aE aT Hae weape Ufa et | 
se Ane safe MA Det wt Mp|e wht ar fare fra ara t | 
sia ope after frat Varese ifeaT 
Rearrentra wer af Area TEATL | LwR | 
vite ape aft tra neq nfs a ofae EA we, vite ape ht a 
SPrp ney nf aera ® 1 Sfrae nea nfa sfire Ht dt sae vite pS 
fa sera z | 
aerertaan aft seq t 
Weed whawes de ef Fa BETA 1 wxx | 
vis ope nfs ame SA w sa thw ne afa 4 sea tA 
St (ora ar ay a ATA srrernfa wet B fore ote aA FI 
wie ope wa ter frame aah 
apasatra a wat Carey weartfe: 1 eeu | 


&X , Tart 
wry are (3TH VHS Tha orf) H ea Bhrae ver vfs A sey! 

@ 1 fadta (atta ape aft wa) att ada (eita wpe fa aH) stare: 
va ye nfs @ vera @ 1 wer waA ata z 
Te BAS eet aT PART (R¥RG) AT TeRATST: 1 Ave | | 

gas nf ay a aw et 81 ea wate Vy we eT 
(3¥3c) & am Sart aise Hr are Hea FI 
aiar wfstrerie sah: warfare ' 
aifeweret fasarat aT dept wat WI ewe t 

we x wh ante e ura A cet we a one at wer fs A | 


SSH off wat ane § Ufa A x ex TEA eT er faa 
wife rm | 


Tete er 8 Bf) Hn 
Wa afer a 


j 
; i 
i 
Pee ene eee one | 
WHT HS fee: WHT AFT (Ro) ACTA | exe | : 
mers nfs ar ae at ace eae Ha -A yee fe ort Ba 
vie Sx at nfs 2 1 gaat (ada nfl ay wa atfesn (ee wa | 
alfesat) BT TOT AX 
ar aorta sary ate: ape aft dad 
ama Yat war aa BRS qf: Gets ae 1b eve | . 
its eof @ arr 23 a cifee a eitsre nfs @ aera wx ape Tia 
Brat 3 1 gad faut ara eA a an ata eri | 
at TATE Aft wet Test Wer, 
Helfad Has Shear Uke POAT | who | 
penta ait ata aft & amr at age ait wea e | gt fears 


H oafa area a fafa wa: dte vet SA & ero sa wet aet fea 
e1- | 


gua wi ate Taacgaated: | 
werrrat factor at etearrat Sat: HAT TD UR . 
Te, ay ak wis at ore ofa anit SA a ges nfs sik fads 
nft & ae yearn sta @ sit aal Sw ae SST Aa FI 


ne CEST OT Rt 


an fapordrarea uragq aifethared: | 
qaqa wise qatter qtr 42 1 
aq deed WAH Sk fata aha a ue fra & stan ax Sena 
aun ax facta atk ada afa a eres etm | ett fade sit ara 
aft at Spe iia nfs @ vert wR yas atk age wf ae ares eT | 
. qu & age Tire AT et Cat Tae 


deere qt edt wa Tt We: wa 
TH, AAT TCH AS HUSHATTAT | C43 | 
GH WA KH Ta AS SHE He S PM HT 
fied 4% Fase ws a et waeates t 
aaot qed HA: Hear Te fraps TAT | wy | 
fast (a¥3¢) & IT AA afer HT aged war A aM (AS HR 
ah anf) & uf A wea a.) at faa (aaHafe uferat A eA wy 
at | Ta Wa qe a fags wpe nfawa erT | 
wird qet aera afe arardst wert! 
wo AeTAa a A AS Pry Aa | ey 
word Tht ae SF or afe aard afa He so S at SAH ASA | 
af Were Wht het SA HT ST at SAT BT SA ETT | 
We fadta qe: care awa are WeHe: | 
aearse wet His FT wre: Cave ATT 1 4g | 
we ae nfs & fra fadta wie wea Yeah ae St Vs Aha 
wa SH & 1 Ta HH sofe « Ula A wea w sea SF aM Hale 
& Ura F wet w wera z | 
BRP Tey age Hera arf 
fee aarice Saat TEMA Taal: 1 Vo I 
Wee BH up. a & faa ss saa Mw As w et Kas 
Seat fee et & aro aei zet fear a wer 2 
adaray frre eps We SATA 
Tart qfe Keb aateq fastya: 1 ue | 
ee eae aes 
we tha & wre ei 2% 1 fk fa sik ae & fea stem fafa 2 | 
TTT (ga) TER (gue) TT TF (eee) TUBA: 1 (Re) 
WRX (Rea) aTeaey Hears LAATST 1 we 


ANS BT 8SR) STM, TT HT (Rv SAM). WS HT (AG SAM) WHF Hy 
(a9 331) Ugefeita Hare Tet U- 
wi frarn-vata afore: et: cterfesifae: 
aatren qe Sees afar | eft 1 ego 1 
(qa frard & 4a 8) oat ga & 1 a0 sit H ga ae vity 
ate Hl TeTA Ue St areHt sist Sar @, Say sist W WE GT: Ant 
ert ) i 
sraert a ga fran {eared wat fear 
A AIM Wert Fat Begs wearfers-s Vez 1 
el a1 saa sik srt sit ct wR at Boats wT WaT TAT 
aa fas HI Get Hea e | 
wether weer ate Tet art Hares: 
TH, A (332) Ase wie ft (24g) 
Taaeriry FH: (3ve) WATT | NGI 
afar F area Sy ® fare fafée sifes vite & Sais e- 
Her (BI AM) TT (24S BR) Te (3¥e Biz) 


FIST (goo) Haro: 
(3¥3) Wrenqata a G7: 
FRET: (RC) FAA (RoR) MH (Rv) 
torr & fargiy (923) HT (x9) 1 263 | 
Ws (Roo ste) Tar wr (avg si) | Ud A seq eM & frfee 
arer BT AR Bh sigt S- AN (We Si) FAT ( RoR SiR) WS (gv SIR), 
BH (2C3 Ste) Aa WA (x9 stg) 
weaned weet fer (3¢0) Tatra: (338) 
water Hest Ut: AANt- (yo) Hr ATR: (Ww) 1 ev 
(area Vite He) TI BT (3X0) SM TAT BH HT (33a) Si SA 
te see a YF FI Re 3g 
aA w usa F seq rat B 
(22) Fisfew wz: Yatarerat FETT 
Has we MATa Yas HAT AGT: 1 Wey I 
aa 8 aa 9g ster HS amt we sea Fel (fea 8) tT BM 


sa zea eM & fae GF B ve it SM Tse 2 I (aa fea 
%) 1 gaat froa (ge sik vie) seq area & ae were Fete FE 


ae CHET PUTT WY 


ai at feafa & are cia em Z| 
BPE WA AS Tet: welder TH: | 
we: Caeea VF oral qeq Wel TAT ve | 
ope We 8 eT Ve On & fay Tas a sik Vie wat aH facta 
frag O Te Sa S| fe Fa GR eA We a RO HAS TT 
am | art Fea vel A arg ora eT Cet we et Gel Fema Te eT | 
reepel UOT Usa eared wars achat aT I 
fafaead Fquaravss Ge Tare are feared fe TTI re 1 
me wpe HI are fate aga afer stk coat BA} art saat 
qa ert Ht arian wedt & 1 ata: FH aa atk see Upe fafa % fare 
Ys BoSswHat H fora tet FI 
yerfetrar (lx) avs Wearsisd faa arr we waTaT I 
Ten we are He Get Hares Wa TATA: 1 ee 1 
utes Hs SB ome a Vv GUS aH FH A vite weit FT 
afar & | eae eit vet at Afewa, ter anfe wet a1 afew, 
aa HT IfATHeT | 
alae der (xc) afa avs Tear Tat TM Mes we TAT | 
WSs AVS Haake frases Grae spot Ferat: 1 yes | 
%é GUS H WI HA, Gre Gorn, sits Hof fea 
Ward, woreet facet a Hoa Caan: | 
Wh PRATT Ale BWM Hae as7 faarhaat APL wWwo t 
WH vas sik aft & sist snfe, seq sik sted wre aT Vie 
Sa (ATA, TA, WS, WH wl H few) fey wa B 
were eres fearfafera: verretret: 
AT EAT: GPT (go) TAFEA (Ko) Faz TH (ze) 
RCHARTATA | ee | 
Wt ax yate Her fawonenfe sr stem stem ¢, S IPM HK 
fanen onfe at go, Go aM ax sie FH ws sig dT aA WW aH 
Ro BUM RaR- 
TATE WeaaHa WAST ANT: BOS HAA: | 
WATATS (Go) AH HAE FA AMT: BATA (Zo) 
FefeaT eta 1 ez | 
UR enh | Uf Tet wa a Sa eM 1 Faw sifaie Si sts, 


ez — RRRSTRT etioy 


wen, fawer anf & stat GIS HAM Aw Hl Ta co @ aM 
SF 1 wer BH ster snfe F frewrHe TA Fo BW aM Ah 


were Fe wx Afe earfa 
(IR) ABT BAPE FH 1 93 I 
Be BH 2 A WAR wa Ht Ta HaHa Bs AWS 1 ae uf 
srTqar am a faart erm 1 offers  Gvewet a vat VaR VE HI 
amity rene BT | we ex fs BT VS We B WOMTAHT 2, 
am 2 & a adi & dre Ha Ga Afasa = | 


Rd AVS Fey ST TT: We Aves fat Fe AAT | 

aea uftrepe Fa Faq auf Soars gels WA 1 vor | 

uitisre 3 vy aos at anit F wea ana, qu sik wf wr ate 
wus wa fear wa 2 | G@vewHaranr sik Gerad va TMs ot feat 
wa 2 | Fa aes Ga a ee fray sa We wa faa wt sa 
ana, qu sit wh e ae Sse A sik ga sista 4 Tea MT ve a 
(aed fray sa) We depa Bp) aha Set e 

sfrore WETS, WEIS, HATS HF Wt THMMTATST TeHH I 

warts arifca we fret unagd Ufsitared AVE: 1 yoy | 

eirsravs Git A yt eco fet wt ve Bos F aint Tas TH A 
Ue & ex GvNl F (2 vy) % aA FB | 

vires @ ae (Fe eH) He a vite Hz ei eo sits ax 
Fare « ufsat 4 a a 7a ae gem safe & Us 4H eG Te ery 
WY Heats @ | Hx H Uf am onfe st are wT ar waa 
go @ a a4 UW Qos Gea amt z | 

UAT Sea We AHS: BVSTAENTT ATM (20) AAA 

afder arnt wa va are cede art ufad area 1: yg | 

Td BU & VS Ha (At BN) Hates BR GA Asl H AA 
Ta sik Wey GUS H SA FT Say VS BH YM HL Fo B TT Zi 
ak afer at seh we era OA & waa Sen SIT ae GUS Fa 
a we wa EMT | 


wend te fad wot oer gata wa: eq 
Sword aad wan arr Met Ge uated feareq: 1 vow | 
gan 6 Ufs Seite Ss eM SG ae Siet aerm feds « Us H 


Azra STAT | SS Wee VETS, HTS, BAT AS aA VTE We ERI 
xepa ett RK AAA WE HS ET | 
ate te afttres gfe tert 
we det wa Wiad faery 
avantarisa (xe) fatte fra agar 
efrorcad: epeaft grafHaraird 1 god 1 
fa, TEAK Ane a a fe ga oe A gaa Ge SG sia 
we Ht ate HS He ot xe UST A foar wa zB 1 Ta sie wa et 
avet & dra ar Ga a & fae fred vee at fate aqan ar 
ai | wus sea asa ae fuea aos Ga A sist STAT OR 
waa seat aT | Atel FH aawnfa set ert | 
street qayene uftfrmiee arfeterd 
(22) BtfeeaHqavShy 
ered FT fal TAT TAT (AVIRIv) 
faced qaaaiifaracatrait eat: 1 t0¢ 1 
TTS HI He TTT & fae 22 sik Ww A avs & ata afora 
A Ht Wad Ae 1 A GvNt FH rw ai Sven ewizive Aart a 
Sl & Fife gai avswHei ar are uftada et er | 
BTS, HX WT GVS SATAN Ht 
qf gat aera: (224) HAT 
TH TA Qwlhra Wer 
qfe daq ware wegt| eit: 1 Yeo | 
vie we afl wt CS Ga FT Ferazt Aq SB aT FV wa 
afte wa waa a era Bla Ba Fa Hal SN ay Verma 4 ae a 
vera | ae yas nfa ert | ; 
fate weaker arate acarika (224) Teal sa ca GT 
wae Heats we bx fata qf: Gt ta FET 1 eee 
Was Tt BI Ae AVS WA BS PTA HT (Ge We Tae), 2 
War 2) afsa & arent at wera nfs 8 am Cre ax wd one « 
ufet 4) ar faa (gen onfe & afer a) et 1 wer facta nfa eri 
PATA, TATPT (224) Ter Tersreliad Tey ge: 
waydrar a agheaary gfe dag Sanfreqa 1 ech 


Tata nf at 24 We & ARAVS GK S TM HT BVq A AIM 
cae wet at fetta aia HAS a vers ( a Ase Half a genie FH 


\g0 fart edu 


Tet!) wa Ths vfs eri 1 ada vfs wt visa af @ wert a 
aged ete ax fa ert 


age Brera ATT Tarhs (2Az) TectedT Adiftay Wz 

Oper Wefey wat: tq BvSney fet earaqgy: Ya | 23 1 

ve vita Sx 3 a (ada) ve & vite Gos HARM FM a 
Bq A AM AA HT Ha Hl 3 a fa A MS MM sera (Hatfe a swale 
& Ufsal) 8 dt eae tha ve ata we epi | wa woes SA A UE 
aft AY Gael eT SPT | 


eae ah wer facta wet sat were farara: 
ang tele aft fatra gata afew: Ta Va ares 1 vex | 
Ta, aa ste wif & vers, Wdia vaer +s aft A aw ae nf 
tA SST Sra @ ate anit aw Ufa Ht wer He AH Ufa rare at 
@ 1 gaa wenfa wa fare ae fade sie qdta vfs ar area eat 
ca 


woe Th: Wee Had facia YS Tawa: BATT | 

farts qr dear Teta qe: wet fe-q aofarTT | cy | 

anit wre mf @ wera nfs wa at vers nfs are @ Bert 
sent 1 tse feta aft ares aa get var qa ufara ae 
erm 1 TfrHe ar denn fautla wh a safe gerfears A aera S| 


we fat wera carn fadtrarteina were | 
amen ae factet Tae anlage: Ufrarasrsta, | ecg | 


ea wer Ana, qa sie wht ea ds Det a fara stk ata Aft 
Frareft saret & 


arent fadtar eo adisfraracaitsaat ar-rrd face 

asptieger aq ae qf aisar ddl Arar WesT ATATT | eco | 

ae ate wit at ven ae uf are fa @ a SA MH Fe STE 
nfa at aa Ara aft @ werac facta nfs frareft sret & 1 owe WTS 
nit ae wee ata a afer OF a aera aia wera es A 
Tan at of frag & arpa fants wa a SIS aT Bers | (aw 
wea uf 4 anit aera sisax sae fauta wa 8 Sieuerat 
wenfrra BT asst er ) | 


wafacne Ae Afaepe wacavs Pear qearha (22%) fret 
oleh HE Wa: Gord cheat feats faeradrry i vce 1 


ufifee at aus wel ahh 4 afe feat ca ar avs wa fee 
at & al SE, A Ta GTS MET MH AW BIPM R HaTssH HR 
praereaa @ 1 Fa HR HT ST sik Taal qe ava sa MK 
waa e | 
| PRAT AT HYYSH ST 
GAaT ACHAT | 
ated TAT (3) BM (to) Fee (ez) 
ae (22) BH (Rv) TAY (2g) THET TPF (19) 1 ee | 
ai & freon & aren wel a sea atk ore Get feat are 2 
YH BT (3) TSCaAT HT (Ro) AK He (AY) FT HT (RR) MPT FT (ev) 
HTS THT (RR) AH BH HT (9) Siw | 
GASMHT: GIT (C00) PEAT: WH, ATAATHeT ATT: 
GATUIS WAT Aah AA WAT Tea: SHer eT | wo 
. SA sit BT gdoo S IT aT ara srHles ufos G wera 1 a 
aate erm (ofa A ae sare feared & fae vad « afer wen 
fet Ta arm ta He ufe sear sam seus rave Tae Wiss 
Hl BATT FeTay | 
Ul Ta: wed wed ahead AST AT 
a we Yarae ara aalqater wargeat fags 1 eee 
wa, qeeafa att wit & aria ta @ Ha eA KW qaica a 
wea & ud fern F sea Ba Bi arcs sifes SA a A of A aa 
eat | vet qe sik gw fa @ ae Haig or et KH Ud A a 
ait ut xfa & area otfire OA a ules A sea Br 3 
yates anata fet werefstercenan fete et a | 
Teasers wet fears caut qacafetorye Arq 1 veg 
Uae arene @ ue frat fea feat feat @ areata saa got & 
at feat fer aH sea a area em ae waa & fare We atk tia aT 
sea PraTa at TA TA Sat H ata aren S am Sh A amen fear 
aeeT 1 Te aat SA UW Vat & nfs Bam a am fen aT 1 
Bers wearerqgh art wear wat afer wat a sre 
AHS A ATTA WHAM TeIaAA ATS 1 293 | 
ser fea a ee fea @ Fea aT asa UE feat feara seq are 


B ter & a erm ae Wes eT We sik ea aha A aA Sa aT ST 
© goer fra wet @ seat ar ra waa an ea SPT | 


92 frat ato 


eft fed tat sate ai: Rear: erate: weet: 
TH af firaret AAT YOR TATA SaeTH THAT | RX I 
crass ufserr ¥ ae seg sik ora sit aha aaa faa 
erm | eiifee cant anfe et ae was ae SET Sed Siete 
qaratahaatt QUSTHAAI HAT 
aa af Bara Afra Asay | 
wa af aft opel HUT ATeTavSTAR 
Qifed weltearreataa fate qa 1 yy 1 
fra VaR Gos, BS Haran sife uftfere 4 faa gon zt 
Tat van nfs a SA sit Hofsent HT SRR framrerat ot fora 
eon 1 xita eof, nfs, opdcreet onfe erie <eira 8 Gee fea 1a Hci 
a free | we ara are & ase a aardt & 1 
ard: qa fren ufafed free ara: qa: 
Wa wa cel qe fafedsaerd Tata: | 
meet req ee ate ate aT: We AY amTetaT 
TASTY IE fers: BTAISTH Tho 1 Veg 1 
wi sit aaa at open ofafea gales & waa weit area | 
Wet (staf sat sik att Hy eet wet at oper att eft qa 
al vad sie ward F ft eps wear wifes | we aw, aH S anit Sa 
AIA URAL AVA A AH Ute Nhs Ba Waa ar sey sit sraq 
SM & Vat TaH Aes (WA) Wa FT ae SET aries | 


USAT HarafraT TILHT (200) ATAT (400) FETT (R600) FF AT 

wreern fath ar aft wer ver feared vet 

Be Tayat: YE VOT Hast ea frag, 

Hea MH Tat Tarot PfaaIoae STeT TAT! VW | 

UH ABI USF oo Heil al feat, Aaa F (Coo) TAT UF A (gc00) 
fom 4 drt & 1 arg ue feet aaa, sae ae a of A wa aT 
a fear fea @ 1 ae waa & fea sa oe a af am fe uty, 
AMA AW We HT BIA SC TA VE SH Bp]! Ta Hen a aT AA a fer 
arfe wa arom | afe aaa enfe @ oe yt FB a sat fea B ae 
saa ara, afe ve ae He A saa feat @ sa aaa anfe F281 aE 
am ea a fea snfe sitet ger at seet fear eri | 


WaTET AMIN HATA TC TARA KaT- 
RAE, Ah HAT Get Wh WT TACIT. TT: I 


We SHAT HUTT 88 


qe H ae Rawr THAT Lora erar 
See Ya WMS TMT AAT HASTAHT | we | 
AT PAT GaTAH 8 Ua We Spe H SAN H Gar vat H Ta fer 

Sam aw Ve wt thre ee nfs ard 8 1 a war feat & SE 
aét % SER HT CAaER THM wae fa wer Sra Be 1 Ht FH ae 
HH SAK Slat FE: VAT threw fs SA a ars sea eT Ste | Ale 
aat var at Strep ard & ora St at wed at Of @ ee aha 
prema % 1 We wl et wae Ute snfe a st Ht Tue the TE 
afa @ art ea we He fer safe sm @ | 


Ta oe wat ax feacrae ate fear fer 

war fx ae am fact ars HR TATA | 

cared we qt wx faq are: Beater 

foarenfaee: weft WA heared AAATST: 1 299 1 

Ufa wana A age vite Sx ufo fee ara 8 1 UE wT ANT 

ak sey SAT aM seat Sai offers F ferar a & ae Her A THT 
oer are oat Tt ue & sae BS aM AA A 2 va Hea F vite Be 
aa fre tart Fora ae aaa & faa, ct vite a= wl threw ofa 
anf | cafe F ward vita tex otk otf vite Ox sree & 
ar S aT 8 Uw Tea fer anfe sree | 


TMIAHHAT: (2,koo) A Afats (30) Tal warfare 

(2s) ATA (92) PIATRA (Yo) TATA (Go) 

TaaTaeat: CAAT HATA, 

farqa<aate aT BOTA SI: TATRA: (\920) 

IATRY (C00) @ BHA fafafrar: (2¢00) 

ATHTE ( 600) ATS, MIMAA: (3G) | Joo | 

(22,§00) HT Bl BATA Fo,%Ws,22,% Bk go W aT Az 

fafa, aera, of, apr ae weer Si ar afer sian Bt (HAT: 
Ro, Zoo, Yfoo0, Loo, Zo | 


wer alfra frape afer arts (20) TeErheTy | 
can: eqheacanra: wfrrel cxf arated: | 
we: Wsaefsy Baer WAT (¢4) VITA: 
URVaI AS Qt AeA F AATATETAT | RoR 1, 
we ax at afer arfe @ we gi aw ufe sife ser we He 
TATST Ro B AT SA a wa fas wt Mea swear | Tet Wea wy 


\s¥ fosrdt adey 


& sift SF We 24 aT SRR aT | aa Hea eT vet BW AA fest 
ot Gea ert 1) vet 2 fret we ada fafa dear ent i 


Team Tay Hy frat aarh Wea 

UTA: Sl HAM WAeT alsa: ATs TATU: 
froma aret aiferd feratet caret FRAT U7: 
area: AaIe HtAAAS AACA SSA 1 Re? I 


adam fafa & at 8 avs (Wa Bre) Ae aH (TRI) GOS Frere 
& fore, fates Prarerat 4 wx wf Henle stat BY OX B aN ze stars 
apt fae aaa (Go S TIN HL) | TTA a Sra FHerM | WepsHyS 
Frarat & fee oo 8 sasry Vera Ta favor asarat | ada fea 
ak sim fea & wae cf ait we ax A saat sum at dhe af 
fraran, ax uf ae cf nfs (efi) & ara @ Ba, favor (at 
vo B ARR) Fam S71 wea wa a ws fafa aw aos anfe F a 
arm | ae wiete vet ay wz st ort: ste & (um fafa at af & 
ace areas fer wt ofa er wea fear rar 81 asd onfe wrat & fea 
aftgqer fafa frac et at ufafer erat 8 xfa otk we otk epe wt 
svat Ua fafa at aft at aren & fates we fen sam | 

TAB): HHT TAT (Coo) faga Tea TATEA: 

Re: fara Naey Hew: TATA AAT: | 

TASH: Hah Beene aa fray ferftreat- 

We APTA (R¢00) We fRarfe Frevat ASAT HAT TAT | YR | 

Be TK Hl Hen snfe Bl Aaa HT (Coo) FT AT VF W Ass 
aat aie aaa tear sett | wa aaa deat afsa Fe TIst Ur 
ada aaa dem sent 1 saga Aaa Sr Ta sist se TA coo 
(ate) S Fer RTA seh | Tat go BAN He fase sara 
am ax tf aft & am 2a at fafa a aa siz wey cvs anfe 
STAM | Spe WH HI HoT sarfe BM UM swt AT Heat geoo B ANT Aq 
we afsa got af dear arent | afer Fe ST a ada UT Wea 
eri (as sife) 1 sry adura Ute Hr Wa sier AM gdoo B TA BATA 
UX Az tM SIT | Aa AT ATs sitet HY go V AT He fawen Taya | 
ak 38 wae ws at thre nfs a arm Sh aH ada US a Ma eS 
ay cus ante sam | 


eas are aH Pray WaT (22,G00) rare aar 
THAT AMT WaT (doo) Warhra Fat: MANTA: HAT: 1 
fe eT fa x. qhagia Teetema ATE area: 


we CHET HLTA 19% 


aims (3&9) wey ash faqar: wes faarwat:.1 Yor | 

ape WH Sk OPE a oT cigar ate ae ey UM a ses Bt a 
gaa 2 Ute Ter Tal He sie A ar HT ATA Hatt (C00) S 
am 2a @ | afer fasprg anfe maar dea eri 1 afer Fe sist 
4 ada FET VS | Ws TaHeT Ta ASH H (Coo) FH We He a 
qt et HT VM | aT A TA He A go S UN we aia siz wz Aha 
ae am @ arr Aa Oe ada AM -& ra stkz eq qvenfe say | 

wae tft HT HT FH YQo He Visat Bpe WH al He S sera | 


qha HUTT (geo) TT fafwad Aalst array: 

wart aaa: fora: ufare: wrarda: afeea: 1 

fara dauft eon qaeca: wraferat Meaty, 

WAL METh WPI ASAHAYETHA | You | 

Be A UH HOT HT NTT Herr (30) S ANTS 1 Aer Ho @ AIT 

aa Bs 7a ae dea sik By A 2 asa w ada ae Wear 
anit 1) Her Hr sive ys ufsser sed A aa ante @ wes eae 
AM HA S HOT SAA VL GT: GS sey Sle S| ARATE FH 320 fafer 
HF go Hey Sa € 1 FHSAA » Suit a ¢ aR aw HOT ages S waarg 
H got drat B 1 (4g OT) Way SOT Hor ages Vers @ yp vfrs|r 
ward ae fer ae & frat aH B- Bras, am, aguas den feeqa | 

aret eeraeferanta WeIferaT SAT, 

afte qeota fofa wanna 

simfrat fastaat: caraqet Scrat: 

arama afearfe weierarel tk 1 


yates & ana aden fats at ger (1a ste WT HET = Ro) 
afc a atk fa at thre aft & aan & afew Ft (ft sear wre 
eT A HA B) 1 ch fata ats ert & (stafa go cus afew eri) 
fafa strq faanen (920 x€o) H aE Ua Tis SRR (ER) B AMT AA 
fafa at ara wa afeariz H sr @ 1 ae co @ aftr wR fafa gfe, 
wa SA or fafa aa Braz | 


ATaisday weag afer: Wisatagat 
Wala wry, aa ate Herad Uetatet Aci 
ara ATA Vea Fa: Matar Ares: | 
— aistertrtad set FF sa frarerfey t ow 1 . 
UWS Ae (Gee sard A are! BATA as) 8 tfa Parka (fa UaH 
a gad 8 a @ @ ye are are oer 31 ca daha ae OA 


PRAT Hera eT aTaT & 1 sree oT aERAT A oTeThS ART 
iM 81 Up ars are ¥ at zfs Gana SA 8 Ta aera wea ¥ 1) 
aa ara & use sit are Hae are & dae ws UH era Arh sa, 
ad e) aerara erat 2 1 yet aera Gas, aeTaTe chr sieenta wen factta } 


Senne sete er 4 itr ae ae are free ue 
arat & fare afsta & 1 


“sha order urfe arises fret wattar gent 
Waa afer: waren dat fees Tae 
awafon warth vex zatret aer eit 
ary ar aft & aa aq wr seq garfeq 1 oe 1 
ae ok eafa fafed aa onfe at, arfaa ste arte are onfe 
dad sik sigeafa et at aret FH et waa 8 1 Aiea cet aera F 
ae em 1 oa & onftie are cen at ares otk warfa & are 
ana & saat Wen (wR Ara & wa 8) H art B  Aersva A aaa. 
ar ware vet er, wea A ares wre eat 3 | Ferra A yey 
afsta SF a a ara fea aa F - 
Went Slat wt SIA, eA anfe, qe ai ar ures, amis aa 
(ara ed, afte onfe, wit sik gfe ah) oa ad, snare ae 
SS UST ania | 


WT: CU ATATAA: YACHT aS: Hara: (eve ) 
fe. ar fx fe BiH: (222) Fafaa TaHh (29) FF TA wa: 
amreisé gel fe waft wean zaeptanr: 
eforastyeareaat FX Ta qsararqesfe 1 YR ft 
WR MT ATS FH UQ—Neg-22z aS H Ale YA: TT AT GET F 1 AT 
a afera wa ofa aia af A asa @ 1 apt Gee watt & aa 
cee §) Oe a ae fae 8 eA Sr Ge anes wT 
area & aera St waa 8 1 aris at sen az da are aa ATE eT 
wen 8 1 AT ara aa a afar St et aaa & | (PATS AT SA 
ed HH SA H Het ae seit a she 2) 
get frearfc aaa uftrar afar eget WaT 
Traracerma: wingers free Array | 
warerate ve Ad A Ast sre zaterar et 
wenfrenrd yor wag y fafert Feat Aiea: 1 Yeo t 
ea war fafa aaa snfe sit @ aw equ ufsar Wt eat fra 
Wet % Paar Wet a Fas srqanr vitad a Ataf stk fre a, 


He SHET FOTA i 
arent oife vd, wa eT, ae, a feadiera aife eX 1 ae Ted, 
cartes Sfmt a STILE site Oferarita Sy A HOT ST aT TET HL | 
fraahiha prepcraraiags: 
ufsat aaarst arehtary | 
Ta W At Met FT: AAT 
oad ast dt Tale Tae: 1 2221 
faa Afafas sees %& fora segs a qalfe we dafea visa 
car ge HT HT ST FT seas aT ot & ued (Alera) | 
ger festa I 
TAHA KAT TW Het WAT 
ft TZ WL Hat airashafes 
fears edo sored arer are 
TATA: CHe AT: AKA: WHIT: | Wz I 
qa VaR seta & foward wage 4H Tat ft SSA HT fora 
ai yeaa 4 Sa ATA aren ae aera) & fore a faerad am 
Fo wa (avsHna site) ufed ve epe fafa wr Gan steqra Ware 
eam | 


Ue: WHT: 
get vsat sreate aot 


Tareas wart freraHeaneg srs. TeT- 

THfre Gerad fears geteat ufsar 

gH fray arty nem ay aarti AeT- 

Ware fate ard ara qe TTA et 
ite wa we & faa 4 sta ges ufsen foam 1 veal wera @ 
wif 8, SX AR YS Wey, We sik Aaa UM, sea sk sed, eras 
(> ok ga at aa wha) fafa, Tas, ar sik Her safe aT ATVAT 
SOT | Wsai Ges ta si GA VK ERI Se Uiiea | 


qt asa (4) fad: aera () wearin 

fred aercareray oaaedt eqereas ufseaT 

weaned 7 quts vat ated Teara4r . 

TL MATH HT frat Ya WATT | II 

we fafa & ora: go evst Ff ures strat & eve daw at afe sik 

CUS am Ht Hal (amr aie tae) - stata fate GPa Gy & Gy 
O cvs ah AA 8 Ta AT & SR Sat user WoT eet Stet 
ot ites afer ¥ areataa af sik ara saa aga ofa eta @ 1 att: 
free waT wars 4 ures aa Hl tga Ufa Ta & are Sat AT 
Ufa at fafa aor ¢ 1 cae frat & arqar fa srfe at wer 
aT T aarey Hat a are fafer sme aera A Wert EMT | Mera TACT 
& tea sik ah at srasana ae et | 


SH Graal Weate ud wher aah fared: uftfasay 
waa dea Haran wears eyeraca WAT 1 3 
fe ot aR a et reuhtfert & arpa St sraraen ate gfofear 
ond & aah saa awe Weer & ope cfs ate SR SH Va STA, 
fea soraen atk offs edt @ ae ofa eq wa S wet oT Gast 
TL H wae A) | ; 


qarsh a: avs weed Yar Hraifeat wig heres ae: 
way foe: after Fare Wee TA: WAR WE: BMAX | 
fsa & ofa sin (ene, fater, aera, arr sik we) EF ST 
Fa Wain wed F Tas was ain (any) SH Bre aA a GP ak wR 


gen TFT HIATT SOTA, (98 


at fit @ | aa: Wa sie we Gen BF wa ot gen (sift |e) BTA | 
oa ake TK HT ae Ae eae sie gan erat fafa A aa eA & 
aren AX HS SET UT SH TR HT VIA WE AAT STAT EI 

wees Garey taxa fare ware feat wa ae: | 

arn qaere ara: ying freata creas 1 4 | 

zat 9a We Ta tfaepe Ufa a fsa Vp]! Wad BI, YS, 
af atk a SMT & ae Sof atk Ga sa Sr erst UTE fea STAT 
a | 

gua ofa ast wet fereres aeeqeeny | 
wan aenth frieraen faat aft wafaaa fara 1 & 1 
aanfa aga fafaa &, ga cht re fata at we AA dana 
a afafan ak da wa Ween at snasaea aaa & 1 ak dent 
a ara 2-4, dare, afarw otk fare | | 
ais arated ax Were wat faa ates qe era | 
aon friardrattarg aq et acter qeritferra: 1 0 | 
os} ye ae & ara @ gerfa sik da fe ar am ae aa 
H vera F 1 eet va A ae va @ de uf aw se Vera ft AE 
Pre HH ET | Te PTT Frearet | 
AST TY (xG0) EAT Fayrs (3wRe) WHT Vers Dara Vt ref 
fain cera: Hered Tenfatret wag ape <r 1c} 

PIR YSTHa BH (Reo) B WMT M(Ivae) S aT eax yen ta 
ak ope Ws SR wT ASST A PN at sik Ge: fen Same 
aise Hen se HT VITA Sp! VK MA A WM B- 

TAIT (990134) fared weeat Gara a fata qe: 1 
watad: afie fatard ers ale val HRI 1 

We wE Ufa (wgoigy) S aT eo afer Horsf Pia Fa 
Sn | PRR Hx Aare « a A WA a PIR Get a VIA Up! 
wx FH set %, Sx Gen onfe & fe A wA a ea Hera F 1 eae 
fata ope wx froma 2 | 

(qeaenrstienes fs ura, fre zat sata facta: ) 
Taps WAAR BR UTeaTaceM: Here FEET: 1 go | 

facta ope ae otk qan Ufa & SR ST a AA SI ae 
3 & fra ae F A sae 1a stk 1 avs fraral | Te sie Ty 
wos Fa an & Taal He SAT 2S TT HL 


Hretearenea: we FAT Hees Use ATT ; 
TaTSa: WR wea waver rreqraea WoAT WISTL I ee : 

TPTES wl Sar Prare at Ta Preafefiad ere @ ar 23 We wen: 
ee HoH Ufete Ha Hel ata 3 1 vale yata H aK wa 
wifes wet ay fede pe aK A Stge B 1 TTS ga A TK TT 
ea Fert € 1 Wt We wpe ws iB 4 

Ward wate faga we qatar sreas-—a fra frvers 4 

BIBT (Reo) Tele Wet AAT (Ro) Aw FATT WaT 1 kz te 

ufaa we a er fra & faa fa are otk ws A a 
SSM-BS Fen WA Vera S 1 Vat sradt H ysrary frre He SAH 
RE WOT HA SF 1 TA Gar F (geo) @ aT HT Tes F go asa 
€ uf wa aT ER eat FI ; 

wants a: garnet fem (to) A ATS WM Et AeA THT I 

qd wet Tat waTETgT Bw: Wega TA UT Ga 1 kB I 

ta & Yat aH BM to S AM eax EHe Vs Ufa VI WN ae 
Sam wey az Nfs S aT Fa S| gaa fora wa fram et ee 
wena BT A wT BA w feta wa a Wdta eRe wa A Tea 
a ert & 1 yaa age epe wx SM VPS AWA eT I 

ware Seg Ua Ae ae aT eat aft Aa wT | 

wera Satie va firg erent anreefa we wat rie 

aara ye wR at ain a ae Bern @ Afr faa A ara was 
dear et arn & 1 eet war fork aereg Ga wares Hl A AAR 
SS SS WHR wt Ufa He 8, We gfeieat ar srarerea (ae aie) 
% gfe at fawn gee ord 3, pile ee seer 
arm 8 ; 


eS Re \ 
wares canfattcisty ureter et Ta Se TATT MW ky 
fat F veer wea aaa ued & cara & Srey ad Ht ured ata 

(Tora) farpa we Vt aret F 1 are et Tae carafe det nfs 
F oft ora geet 3 i gett eee oe GR Oe SAT HT OTR Bie Og 
wo Tet Slat Ue eH fori He ar eH Sia 8 (HST & sifaew) 

PMTs werd Yar VST: avsHeTsIA | 

HAY ear fret 7X wary Spelfwarirs fares Ay i eG 1 


get Ufa Brae ao £2 


cfa al gan epe FH & fers Gen eit sie eer |e Prawrevy 
ag FAM EIT ATH HY TAS HLA TPES | TAHT THVT HLA 3TYST 
ert | 

OR BT Tar eH! Aft 

qian were wa fee fea et corey AT: 

faxarcisattape adraraika actrer Het WT ATS 1 vo it 

(gen GRR we HT fre (wae) FT ae vA BPS TE Bk 
gan ope ta % sR St STS aM S| Wa ST tea BPE WH 3K 
qe Ua & A HY Hifes G TA HL 


feiigd Tes WaT Fe STA | 

at wea were gfe we faq afew) fami ee t 

fen @ art 1 wel at wes Spe SE few A TSA 4 fata 
nfa wat eT | 


aeepa Feat Tae va fadtar watt gfe: 

anfted urfae fates mig sarees waee aig 8 1 

sa ata wa a as Fes fa FOSSA a aera @ fade oe fe 
ait @ 1 ae ese os orfe § Uf A Ew WTSa &, sare Bea 
% | wet anfe ofa wa wt ol at Se aN fate GH a a a 
wera | 

faxes weae od fade aarh Wea ATT Aa, 

TIPLTATH (gi0gg) Ferrer fadra qat gt vat qaSPTATSEH: 1% | 

Bs Fe oie wt 2 a ws nfs sit ope ta nfs S sez B PT 
at fears (2028) BAN S 1 (HA Hl VAT VS VA H WAATS AT 
Sor qa & faded 4 wea a as awl fadta tia 4H aS | 

oy verter aritirend, qe ate: wher carat 1 
farts @ farat at dfare frearfe ery Fa-erT 2 1 

wan fadra sik ada we (a aa fadrard a sper at vera) 
A Weal Rw we a ase ai nfs @ yersh | (=o TT W US wa 
Tae sige & ae Hoy ger & fore wera &) | ae ada Wen Tha (aT 
*1) eri | a feti & ape we w sere 8 We as Ufa of coreaerite 
2 arat & fers vale qen @ atk saa fafa a faa a aa 2! 

. 

faecratre afeertta aac UT: We Aa AeA I 

Taft ea ag ware wyet freteraene fra: 1 2! 


ev. fast 
gan va & fate snfe ae at enn feen ara & 1 et arf f 
we AAT ot fate onfe wt ael ca faa & 1 wer wa water Be 
wel %, frea cage & fae cin sa A aa F 
sade Hast Wa aA wants ares Bi way 4 
Tea: SK MS SA A MTA TAM (ey) wits aT a | 
ws & fa srt w Sh ax sor Bae we ¢ THe H et ay 
(xfa & BH AI reo" we STH TEX WK ) Ue vat ae facta & ue ay 
({¢o°~RRo') TET BOT va HoT S| way UM YS wat wats , | 
Te AE & UPN TH Ys va aT sas St Fs) | va at yote| 
RAs UM Aa TAUTS ¢ S ez UM Ma SI WeeH Va (R40) H ae | 
STM (4) HT VA VOT (Te Val) HET STAT F | : { 
aase af wet wirat ; 
ara watt Waet Ha 1 
we: Bpe: wag fea wed are 
FH Youn Afrrara fre: 1 Wx 1 
ee ee 
C1 ae whe Prorrery & fore water (gfetara atte start) ar art (atm) | 
ate Tey (ATH) eet PraereeaT SHA VAT BT CHS HA | TT TES, 
nif art wifes ert ok oreo & eae, ster feerfa onfe wera ga fers) 


ite ot ale Ss 


Ba SF 1 Cor & arqanr et chaz 2) 

weatearedgit: wel Te 

CTA HM ( ceo) FEM 

WIAA WT (30%) TH 

TTS FRAT AAT (Ro | BALI WRI 

WIA Spe VKH UAH afew wl at earl A wat UH tar A 

SA He SME WA GUAR He (ko) WM HI WA GR AHA Hal 
aan S| ara wat & yes nfs vet wer ye ope we fa SN 
me Hea ( wRolgu) B aT z | 


webad aie pmfers Sx ger catfra aes qf: 
fear quar sfireTsen Te AH, Areit Spee 1 I 
art wera & welt at sis FoR a ex wh onfe Of A ET 
RT Fa Am wae Hl wane nfs A HSH ae yews vet onfe & 
afer 4 tet wm Hey Nfs S wean | ae aR aT Pepa FeTis z | 
SAH GA: at wart H aa wee ea H Tae upe cfs ala erase 


ents ere (8 = (FRETS GR BH) er go aT x (aha ets qT 
ofa) FI YT ATT ~ Reo + 0) Bum = | afse M1 ara tas HT Wear 
gomfa % AS 1 ae RAT HT Geras Tis ee 
wa fren area ae ate afer AT 
srerafa: Taare: Warara ard aay Get AdT BAT I I 
wae ya & fret at & fore ws Ufa sik Ge aera H fore 
gard Ufa FI TE Sree TT HUT | ta: ART afar ert HK AT Tht 
gan & ara 3 fat gen vise aH otaeR vt Shade 1 ea aT 
gern es afar orf srecoila & | 
grit afers qari wee Yarafert west | 
pers Meaifea afaet SUT Wet: MEAT WAH 1 RW I 
geal at aa TR eA Safa ee ax ea B orgy was 
ah & Wa (TaN) Hl sera A assy W ae aaa ANel A fora fare 
wy fxaal % 38 sta ta oT eaten (streera A Set fesn A) Hecra 
21 7a aeaheae ok wifa ga 4 fara tara Wo Ue HT Ue sig suf 
2 (ue & fas & Hifa Ta OR res fag) Ta fas TH TA EE ST Her 
Wa ga (iets ten) 2%, set ga a ae fear ast B nfs 1a WE 
Hl ME Hl Aa = | 
wn firfat da woo feare aferad wie atvefi 
qa faa area ase faa feataacat feaa a ce: 1 ee 1 
wets srarat & Ad @ at ys ars vel wae VE & srqan ea 
@ 1 ae we we ot & faa Safest we a1 aT sie ohet He ewe 
site axd € 1 Sa uP sa RT ae wae we at Td feos ta 
R Fa Ta aa 2 
auftaoag aret frat frat ta serrate 
ye, factse fifad fe ate, Gararenerrafer Yay | 30 | 
afee sik ead sife fre ait Afifee ad at fohs & oe we 
wl sTagqam % 1) Hac wag YS & fw saat ste, wR WIE 
wT oraeqan orf 21 cae fea aa, ular stk ford onfe 
AS Wet st gen wera wt wate 
frarast fafa waet fa: wt faragarrars: 1 
TAL A aa WH (gy) Tet wierd ATAla Ae Ae fe 1 321 
wd ges ata deert & are ot fafa aa aaa 4 3-3 et wT 


ae ; fara 


SRR (TOT det sfe H) use e, Ww fae GEER wv Bet sR BH Gey" 
ae serene 8 1 TA WAS (2-3 Ue) Hl AT TA OSS Hl TT age: 
Gt wae WH & | HE A TIT aI KR He gfe staea Eri 1) 


aq ferrgy frara ara SH, qadl AA YT ATT, 

aa: Wels Here Me-wT faadqadisaeay 1 321 

ued} rt ax @ we fra feen FB, yeat at wae F tad We 

ae gad feen 4 cram, ert feensit (gal) a ara (HPT) wer | 

wera & 1 a rafters sit aha qa} ee we (metas & wha ae | 

wm weet frg) TH H Ged (wos ste Fa) Bae (Ft) EA 
eK a faa wea & I 


ga oH Aled a A ATMA AS AH AH MEAS FAM: | 
ead Sat Tarai Ye Assay SHETATAHITT | Bl 
wat sik ex & feu cand dr & east sragaed aa ae. 
wen, tare sit ve afa 4 8, Set wan A erat rery eri: fafa 
aaa safe H Sas sara At eB | 
qed Vfeararqaen ery weft wf farts wea BT Ue | 
afrtadt SUT waaay Ts wer aes | Be 1 Be 
are fafer et geaifem 8 (nferarra ue a desl & aaa ae ue 
a ey a eft & fava 4) feet 8-7 err wea aaa B Ue Det 
wast sife tt @ wd are sik wre snfe ar qe era 8 1 faite waa 
ae ud Sh S Ha S eh, Gear Heit Hr a ae wT & fea 44 
Yer era e | 
mt afer ary - crafatte are ware GAM Sea 
wpe airs ae: ret: Hafsacty azar Taft 1 34 1 
nfira waa yest aT are H vem snfe vg SA a st we ee 
ae WA Hel A BHI ei Spe BAA ara F aaa A Het sea Ae 
usm @ | 
za an adie yor frac faa sat: 
wars afar: ae va tT ferafetar: 1 3e 1 fat 
Tira stra aha 4 aa OA RK Usnsit & wy ae ea F aM 
we We sla & 1 wat ot vq sik Wm A qe dre Tat ea E | 
afes are - afar as aa are Aa erafraea, 
grad aa weer pata carte fof p01 sf 


4 


gen ufget Sree aot ay 


af A wet @ | (fea we & aan ae aa Ael)- fra 4a 
(aa) ey sa FU WH Ve Set ea | fawa #1 (sata gH sik 
nfra Hoa edt @ 1) Tet & sepa fate safe ar feta wen 
ates | 
aacreteararaanres Creat ata aferarie aaa: 
AHA Ado: A TIT 1 Re 1 
aacst dfen 4 fae @-afaat, (Cite ste qi) enfe asi & 
art ast Veer (Sa) Aa eae Se asa | Sai waa Wefeafa 
zat WWM H ST SRR Tem & ae A Ss TI VeTR  HTT A 
awit fran ste Sit | wera Ht Suen wet St aad | 
fe a afe qacy aofard waft a 1 
TAT H AL MAN AT Were: SPE 3 I 
PSE Sed ot en oe wee eet ol eae! 
Wa H WH Vera Aet BI Tal en qa et ? 
. pute area ae viata asia we aad aen-fafa snfe an 
dst teen 8 aaa HI saan at se Beare A wat & aaa F- 


afe a wat Wea Acaheaty Yar Aas aitatac 1 
afer afé aagfa treat fraata fe cat ITAL | Xo | 
fafa onfe fFroareaat & fea a cm cost Geer Hl ard HE S | 
ae Teast & fas fo adi saa F 1 Saal AS A Aan @ TS 
WHAM afar Ht Her Sar z 


at: SAAT Wd BTA FA SH Tera Aft Ta Wz: | 
Wat Ya: weareda: Ear SHS TAA frente TWAT: 1 vg) 
yom ax @ oe a ga oie & fre fag ae are 8 oer 
St nforama we fea adt ere 21 sa we wre ae a 
qe cea frat: Wert Aa Aa: WAL, 
Ties Sart facataat aa: 1 xz 1 
YE F arom aren’ Sait @ VAI WR sem sre fafa ant (oe 
Sl fay fesn a arco) | att: fafer 4 tert afe yoni ax @ at ore 
A ore wat cert & fore wae SA A apr saver seein er 


qettes fad: Wer tweet a ature: : 
we: FE Tedary acarfers ATT freat aay 1 v3 I 


ce , fast = 

qa sit nfira Sat & sqan ue ag OA wwe aT Yai H 
cage Ae SI WHat 8 1 sta: Afra at Wega suerfes & fee St aha 
ay fear sma ¢ Saat fara ava wrat F 


arentrard-farnrfaaicdrret (222) 
frat & anita: wereciifafter 
HEPAT WA TA UT wit 
aaG TTT Ye I 
_ sretrard (fered ferraten 3 wer 8-A9 wtoies aa a eras 
ut @ fe ‘fra are fade eer @ aT ez fer oe a ANS wag 
dren & 1 after wet & stfeawas a apaH SAH UA aE eg | 
ware aaa} ASAT YATE AT TO WET 
wart meer adigae woe ea aTrat feared xy ‘ 
waa a 9 ats & fava 4 (qe fear &) ora HF wer 8 fH, ae! 
Se ene 
FAH SASAN BLAT SI : 


oe eer ee 
afirdrad ope afro Ya meres sft ve I 1 
wa epe fear 4-ta4 Gal SR Hel Bsn Vena gaa aA | 
art a aA Bt ren | ste: fas ga wee sem ats Gen snfe | 
SRI WE HI Hea SI 
fom fads adifa vere trea ene fagaraer 
wereg attest oT TAs fade aad Hag fe (22g) fai wot | 
KF TiforarTa HA SB (ee2) Faas HT aE wat: faga f 
aa as Ha Ht OH Hr F sta: Te VAT H uy fares (Ree) | 
faa) @ aeatea dar area | 1 
amt fag: af arareg ert 
FISTS TNS ( R390) TOT 
AE AH (Ree) Fett Fay (gv3c) 
ard Tarot Sart gate (222) FAT ve | 1 
aaife ares aR A uf GISa w Taal wit ST (e300) He | 


@, atk (2¢%) @ WM He feet (va) @ aT Vx a A (222) He 
audt & 1 


gen Tiare SreMS TT Ze 


arate adler AeA aet Horst ya Garey 
qrert 4 aftag, airet gant a fas facts str xe 1 
aa wa sat St sna & feat Hest ys Wa am ana we H 
fra cart ant ate ore UT Te | 
aaranearea fast daret area Hay WHat 
GA TeReT AAAS YAS (22) TaalhsT Wel Tea | bo | 
qe 4 Ta sea cae wt Her @, sea fear H at va 
awl aaa wa a @ 1 at: ea ate Geer Hea Shaq erm | HA a 
ae AMAR He AMT | 
aay (a0) ford Fax 
are as gre qfe erargetheaay | 
gente qaife fita fad are: 
PASTA AA: CPST 1 42 | 
(sree art & gad) & coma @ fe THR FS HT UAAA (280) 
fam aga feat Gaet an tet 8 1 wes arava & arpa Fe wea 
aoa & ata: att Weant sR UH SHS HEAT Ales | 


TAT: WEA WISTS Whee BAT WaATEPS: | 
FH WS Mere Ua araTy He: w aaa fahaway 1 42 1 

WIR Fa & wy aA A ata 4 oa & faa AS Geer a 
fay 9 san auf & are WR Fa MRK AM ERI She Ue feat aT | 
Waa ax 8 seat faa sat SPT aet Ast Geer eM | 


veuty (ga) cvet=atrar fafa af qcert weeeaae{Tay | 

qata aa qatar fears srerfrer feapfag-wher|r 1 43 

eae F gen fafa sa wer tre @, frat ct arma feat & 
ane uated et | att: sa ven ga fafa A eg a otf cos aia 
ATA Sth | 

(UH Rey ray fea H 30 cus & fas & He Ula & CUS FH iat 
TH 8-UId:, Yate, FeATE , AIS, Tae) ss B smal BeTES aH 
We fey wa (go) SUS EM siren sae at affead BA a « evs 
sti erm 


ware ara eq ate ya a Peavey qa WaT AAI 
. TATE AS HAI ata: creas qata var fete: aT Ue 1 
wafa & ara afe arare wi east az fafa afe sme fea gata 


4 are St ara dt sa fate an arg yd fea vei Sra oma feat ae 
usm | sre fea dt ag aw ae ars TO ern aes | 
(quater 3 fer 30'S aos aT Gy aT Hee va 
aS ¢ AM ey-eg GUS HI HTT Het F | UH aM eH EB) 
sa she & sean ot um fafa or ar ere (8 BOS) + OTR 
(30 GUS) fears (24 EUS) = UR US TH SIT ZI : 
HAT (Aw-kq CUS) TH A GR avs aH er | 
Fe AaH ued Ht Hers fH ue cos ar fafer eri | 
He-wredls srrarat & Aa arate teers: (4x B ey cvs a fafer) 
wee SH Hear va B oy @ eg cos a afew ow aT fof wef 
wart @ at fae 2 


qere titea:- yate aq viral qt eran ay afe 1 
ATT HAT HS Vet T TAAIT! SFT Gy | 
mis tafe & aren gest & areas FH sarerea sey Frewx 
afe ame fea ufacer fafa & yeaa ge 4 ome BI aa a Has aed 
(2 eos) F arg sires arma Vent Ged FH ware Stat Urfes | (STATA 
ATK) | 


meer fafrrreraretéer Tara: (&) WT: 
Wer te fatter wife aeat AT gfeer aTet: 
wrariey (3) waaratafay feregq (22) Nera 
arerd wafers fafarcr frege, feréctar firera: 1 4g 1 
Ue stk per cai vail A wat, aed stk aad ea cis fated 
Fu Bra & avs S HH Stat aa: HF fafwat & ach « Fe ae & 
AL yan & ae Ha F, ( saa yy cus @ we at Ger fae wet Sh) 
A 22 fafet & e gan & Fe sa SF 1 wafa aT <a wer are A 
w oa fos TOT A BIE afe wet ert | 
Rey yet a (ex) Wer Wyel Yee yaaa: 
TAT tye TAT Deaf we ag, | 
meaerairartr gay fafa aagorarrery, st 
ad Hz at Trgaaar Ay ala TE: | yo I 
urea arard aera sik sad ae at feerfa Tet Baa A, wpe TAT 
& yarreq af fafuat (9 A, ch) A Ger aa Bt Ger A ex evs ae 
a St Us Sat eo) Afar gard A gd we a ae TET eM 
ROT See Tan ae H fare Te aed Ver at et | Half Bras 


ee. 


gen Ufsral erate aviary | £8 


aa We SHA ST STATA ST AT AT | 
ay mf afersrte yfata: aftathtr 
fara ar faarerel qenatrat qa 1 ue 1 
afa sife sr faftia qe aaa Propet or Pray Hem <I 
PRET TeTAT Aft (9Qolg-4R) Hitt: Yasea | 
ATSATTPT (RAC4IQAIRe) TE 
TAATAPACTATAT FT (¥, E19, 2k, WW) U4 t 
WK BH HET MA (Qo1 44a) Hl Yat Aaa NT Hea SF 1 TAA 
Se TPM (gV24i42iee) Yfes $A & Aaa Hl V-- Afeott, srquean, qrafe 
i 3 TAT (TAA WISTA, TATVS SN TAL BATS) | ¥, 2G, B22, 
721A) 
TH ATF (ARK QOIRE) UTRTST 
STAT ATPTATAT (RW, 2C88,%, 2H TZ, 
MTTSATHAT (2,3,4,2, 20,88, 8¥, 89, 28, 2, 
BZ,23, 24,29) eH WI Wart: | ko 1 
UOT (2) Sst (8) STReTTT (&) TaTaT (24) Syst ( ve) wath 
(2¥) & Fatal BT ANT sa (34R1 89128) BT ey Aetal Hr AMT UH 
(\SRolB¥IGR) BIA F | 
AAATFT (RRIS4IVUAY) THE (2,G00) 
FaPaa sae: (2W4W1S134) 
Fra (RAIA (22) FEA ae ir: feafesaw: 1 ge 1 
TS Ro AAA HT PST APT (VRIVYIWLAY) FTA HY Heit (2x, Goo) 
HASTY Ue STG (2UwIRCIBy) %R AF stig aaa ar AT ara FT 
TRIMS (2Y) TA AAMT (22) TAA w Ars sia ze 
Bpee Be faa: wieearfka =nfe sires 
faye am aeats aft fare warsra: 1&2 1 
epee ve at war B aifkat aaa @ ses frat aaat et wars] 
wedt &, werd | ae aera Wear St a Aas z 
aan ada Aisha Sa | ra 
ayS AT VA aise: Tard HherHTorsH: 1 GR I 
arat mer (fsraa got aaa ot Her aet we aa) ada aaa wt 


Ro fara adoy 


wa (sitet eth) wee | ea AR at a HTS Hey WW Ta Ha 
ert 


Treeat: Sheet: Tea Wfotat: we ate fr 
fagat ufesren: efter: wet Aferat: | ey | 
Ta Sit Sq He HT SEM stra: Go B PT ae VE st ape fs 
wort 8 ar @a we ada aaa at a sit Usa ( AD as anise 
way em 
wa araté sat art afatrarstt 
forarerfag ead UAT ATTTATTS: 1 GY | 
we of & aM, se TT aT as A wT ars aifafera Ufo 
Re Aaa al aT Ho A yw A am VAR SH UH Te sas | 
Weaat UE WSaY ATT AA ASat: | 
ade ara Uettat Prat za at wat: tee I 


WAAT HF STAR TH UM (yeoo Het) Fe AAA ale (stfahrag, 
Tet Wo Tarat BRox¥ = Yoe We) = WBxR) SH Ba: gz Uwat 
F toe AAA TS BETA S| yen Fears S UP wT im aaa Te 
wot et ara & | 


aaa tte wet: warscrHertad | 
Fat WaT HHA TASt TahHs 1 go | 
we fafa & atet ais wh & ara aH xe = 36 FAA Ue AT 
It Y= 8 AeA AT sea aH aaa aot ett | ata: | at fae Uf 
AM to F HST AAA HI SIT UH Te eT ea | Afra Gar WMT 
% aqar set aaa fee 8 (¢ sign ved wh ais F et ones et aT 
ia 


wernt us ferarhh frsoara fates: | 
ed: Usita area: Tattretartaquaen: | Ec | . 
Wet or HR fears ferdt of & sas fas (st srreft ofa aT 
ares fag 2) Ww Uday & ara St Ge Waa Ha Hee eT 
dain aaa ae twa Te oH frst Gea fag wt cast ar va 
Bu a Uy etal & 1 <a freed & feu frg & ogra fawen Howe 
at Tifa Sat S aM SA az wa arel (avs) snfe wt Aaa aa Hea 
€ 1 va tay aaa 8 ge sea ES wa aT FI 


gan Ufa Serene aot RR 


gata far weer: Fa WaHTRA WaT WET: ! 
qosaen va feacat ta Taxa AAMT: 1 ee I 
amt dara ara A ue Sai ufsrat wT (fas wa ea & 1 sat 
yar Ub Aaa S cat aaa FH sid aaa A saat fara (HUSA) Wa 
ae UH fre Wl Led 8, We ci aaa wr He 2a SB 
fanor fay fred THAT FI 
WS YT a was gfe Ais Vat: 1 vo | 
ae fart at fase at (9) tras wl af srr (2) wR fa 
(3) aK sik ta Tf am, atk 
TAA FT TAT TMT SVSTSA: YAH, 
Te AAA ATTA BOTA SA ATT: 1 921 
(¥) aH sik tfa at fa aT SRR-S aT SA UR Hazan (2) fafa 
(2) Aera (3) AM stk (x) HoT ahs aT TA sia 8 1 (fafa atk 
SAR SAT HOT ai HI fa UH vaR & safe: aha aaa frase at 
fafa um a2 
THA AAS TATIHA Wt 
aera ASAT HT: TAHATY Far faa: 1 0% 1 
3a, wis, aa a & aay Tai @ srs Gara war aad 
ca 
rane nha: wi Ae wea: | 
Wiarvse AAT Cart HIPTATASTAVST: | 93 | 
vita otk aia & siete at fa a oe wr ST art & sa vfesosay, 
aia wo ufa at art sanosa Heard & | 
faarart, wie: Head aw farsa: 
| fayasVSA UTE TAATASATVGTT | ox | 
wir aa a faao & aro ua aT ari fasosa wer are 8 | 
fagqa sit sei aa & at A aa Bea FH He SAM 
Ufa Ta: Hed wrist arTeT Wee: 1 
oh aa: Sera: Gig Var MPI Pay: (Gwoxvo) | 94 1 
wet & arara afa et ferodta fern A sriea ora ¢ sift qa atx 
faya ga ar dara ar fae farg) wt tifa ert & 1 UH wea A eae 
WE ay (aH) cm HT (MAH AR) BH STAN (Gvorvo) Ft. 


RR frsra adoy 
Wish THE We Wad AHaTA aT: | 
Urea Vag Wag wri ATTA a: tg | 
we Wd at ve aaa ae Tiel & Sa & (wid aa an fagqa aa 
doit a fara fers oa Waa sift ef WS) ae ah Ge & aa 
a er wh cae a ut & ues at ace aera 2 
an fasta srirat urat Aatferee aH 
udret wfadtearte ara: Wha | ws | 
ae wre Fe snfe & afer A wet we aa ok We onfe ar yd at 
RH % eT A ara 8 1 aan aan ante Usa A wea a Va a 
RH Yo Bi Hera & | 
aan xf Yarami-eq caroafeaat: | 
fafa ga Seay creat are aT aA: 1 oe | 
3a Wd & anor fa anf we aden atfxadi snfe aera srt sett 
wiha & amt (eet wrt a) TEA ae Hh afar ar sax at ae fafera 
drat F 
were eae TO Ufo: HeT Arar: 
Tq ga TUTE: wa: UTA: SPST TAT I wz I 
ee fea at aha ora frarey & fae aha ora & ea TTT aT 
etter A YON BI BET AIA FEA (24,019,8%, 92, 2,000) B aT 2a 
€ ter atk ate nfs erat oa sae | 
Wareara AsYS Ure ae are fairest 
faxratat: wefrey ae ATTA AST: | co | 
za ute arfe wert Hr 22 Us a setae Be Sl ysrHeT aT 
| YAHeN BH Yoo A an 2a A Ha was eM | Wars SF araaia 
z1 
Ferret: she CATR ETT (Roo)AT: Herfese: 
arefaerta Tea: Te Ta (RIC) TAs FEF ce 
Roo S AMT BY W GH WI Tal TA Go B WWM FR Yoo F AM AVI 
R wen safe we ern | wR fer FH statin fa gize wa snfe F | 
POTS ASMA ST FR (IW) JT (2) FATTHT: (4) 
Wereqay (wy) fRaeTa (x2) TATHAT Bhawfert: 1 62 1 
PUOTTST SITY (ecko F Hat UaHiha calea) A SAA Sie 2 I 
WM4UV4lwe sie ar i 


ea ufsent Srearte ach, &3 


qereate ard Fert wrasa arerer: | 
BUT Brera Aerie ase TT AAHT: | 23 1 
wird garfe « uf 4 tet G saa SI HM ( Her) aw 
aurfe & Ufs Hwa a aa (Am) fan ara 2 
qe foart-aetenare Weraniha Brarat cefeHy 1 
Bpe FH Tera Wes Tat fagagay est cx 
a fast & aqan-seiyl Heed Ve St Sa SN, Aas 
sufe faeren stat @ 1 aha oa at ufa at fagaarha (Hd daha 
al oat sar ae Fat Gera a efaorag) & waa Vera Rar ST 
aad z | 
RaStorTere TIT Raat a: 
AAITeseN ATT SHIFT UTA A ATH: 1 cy t 
ante, soreeq ait aa den eam ofa fre & ara wT at aha 
Ud & aie HIS fa wet z 
WANT MTT Taye. Ae Feat | 
WM Uaafad aH TeIMTeaMaAT | ce I 
saat wha aaa qose & ota ue a ace SA @ Gag aia 
fe aaa wae uf ware YA aT es | 


Wen wat Ys UN wif Tega: | 
vraag wet arat fer Ae AS AME TA: 1 co 1 
wate sife at ufera ufa chad wr ste 8 1 wamat ud: nfs eg 
& 1) va oeon & aqan Siete zat wt ara ga a eK aT IK 
efaror faa ar facta aa S| 
wrarate Aiea eA HOI area 
Tent Pavan: wre, serra: wetffar: t ce 1 . 
arn ara frre wa wa. a afra afaa Ga & ufs snfe A aT 
WS MM aR ea & Ta St seis Bsa ates | ya saat aT 
Tifa oft yf at acm 8 | 
SOT Wa Ws tara fracafa 
WearH, Tare faxar eat fat: BPeT: 1 cet 
Fae faradia ate nfora gra fava wi & sist & oh aR fra 
ga an sist wa 3, svar stax ofa afa aren arraiei 2 


ax . | fersra aor 
fe area aaah te writ fafa der 
Wears Spe ANTS AAT TeTfewy | go | 
od otk tet dart & aaa (state Set stat 8) wae Sat aaa 
tia at witha waa eri, Sai aaa & cfa aw afer ante ar am az 
STAT BA UE ates aT UPLATST SAT 
Ta AAT UH FACET TAT THT: 
WH GMCIT HITT SA HATTA: 1 Bvt 
fread wh otk wat dah 8 ved are awh ate war daha 
art 8 sraaret Sist (3A) SOT sr Feral SENT | 
wre, Warrier we Asan aeta: 
uredaidaar ary aifsarawatsey 1 82 | 
We San sik fagaga eri wf ofa fern ¥ ha Fe am a uw 
Gat BH sara A wei sea S saa wha ei F 1 stat: We a we 
wen & char a sa fagage TH Tt seat (qa Wa Faw) & Ta 
witha Hea & | TAHT ST ATH SIGH aT srosHy HB 
aie aera tar erat ant fren fe ar 
aera, Weaa aH wastes We: 1 83 I 
ara tet 8 afeod ten fara arta ga ar art Her Sat & Tae 
are ufera & 1) aa gears sik was TPT A sat Hea HEA | 
a TM Fea Uf wast MMT AT | 
Wat AS Free (23130) AaMAshy BeMT 1 ex | 
deer & we Fy sik gen HT St CMA ETT saa 3 UM KW (HH 
ak wax) wifa otk fayage er at aad er 1) waa @ 3 Uf 
ara & srfa sit faga ga ata wales (1g) att 22 130° STH | 
wire uTATaee Bry fava (2390) Heese 
were AeHAAT aT Wert are athe 1 eh I 
UR HiT (2330) BT FT (230) ST | WaT WEP HA K 
@ wel 1 asta ste Sn fawn Bra 2 | 
WRATTHY FAT (2z90) EFT Ale Tar FATA (3v3C) AAT 
Wa (too) ET AX Tea (WR) AT STRAT wT Arata 1 ye | 
ere We F areas Seat Saat AsASaT FT HPA HT FAM (2390) 
@ aon Hz fren (avac) B a7 Vi seat (200) AD WM BT (VA 


gen UAT wreante aor RK 


am 2 | ae We We wt wha ST ert | 
ae oy: SIT afresh Sat ont atsfara, 
PAPITATA, (2,22, 28, C¥) UCR CATER SHAH: 1 V9 1 
SIPTeT ST ATG STAG Sa er eh 1 fen ot a arias 
an @l Fel a eT AS TT RW eT ert at fH sens aa HI 
TATE B | 
watt Be Hlfessr Yaar (24a) AT AAfeHhy: 
TforaT FaSTaT (3¥3C) AT ASAT: Ty: HIA THA: 1 ee | 
Spe VE HT YT SiS SM HI Yoo SF WM WL WR FT UM Cat We 
atl we Fl tfae afa @ aon ae feat (3va¢) Gam 2a a ehrw 
aifa fat wre ert | 
HIATT: WETS WETIT ATLA: | 
pe wiht HAS Tet ataarean fratadt 1 eet 
srt despa VE HI UMs Ga We A sat St aH Sih ard B 
aa 3 awe A a: afer wt aeH Sra ert 
TERT APT Wet, TAT ATAAA | 
We aeteat Ya sacd afoit AA: 1 yoo 1 
aR UTS & Ha S sras at Ufa uly fee A set Set BB ara: 
Ser GE ve F saat SISA a A St Here | 
Tart we as GS ara wafery 
We Were, Wert faq orarHia wreadshaery | Yok I 
aarfa we (ope) Posada qd fara & 4a arpa AA sa 
at tifa ge siz afar St feensit Fat 2 1 wren era ta Bea HA 
a Wh steal aE BIE ET | 
wisn fagae areft gresrar fatfrst aT 
faa gare STATAT ULSI A MUTA: 1 RI 
Sia sar at (faya Brat) GET A AM HT gz SF AM AAW 
fafasan arf 1 se fren (avac) SN et Get a aM 2A a aE 
ert | gee acorer Frere | 
AS MTR CEH, BTA Tt MH GTR, Feerat 
qd faara-eriiea waaitt fer UR za ST yo3 | 
fea aft & AA aM (ey CVS) BR Hild WA W AT Biss T 


aR fast edu. 


fears aa vert & Ufa Hr ard Era Bt afar wha TA We RG UE 
aw MT wert uw fears ae ssa or Ue arg ta 2 

aera fares far & fesert gfe 

ML Bel a HTT TAR Vth aH 1 Yow | 

feard atk uta af at ot ae 8 fea ik fF aT AM arm 

21 94 faa #1 Tem wa) aaa, aH aM at Det at ot fea 
ai ofa ar ara Prarert & faa sae Mw aha A visa (ex sz 
a es et 
a ard erm | 


qi faart-fadoustes ahaa waa 
fesvesahar PAST MTeHTET BaTTAT 1 FFT 1 You I 
wa faa & srron-aitt 4 3k SSA A eA A eae wa Viet 
ZR stk wha usw fern F At we sist ae @ 1 Bey fern A SA 
Se ee ee ae 
ar Wea et Sta | 
| ae At eye VerTeTH ase I 
wa fafa erat cet TS RTT TAT oR | 
oraen & fag a wl vere art fran at eqer fafa wel 
sardt & 1 war Mt ste ota Uferai & seq A sas SAT area ST HT 
frenret | 
arts frrareatet fort fara W: 
Us Wirt Fat CTA BVS TH YAH I Yow | 
3 fe Se Uf wT VHT VAT WaT a GS, WUT A 
ais a ae wer UU fede waaus, ae UH Ui wt at Het 
WIA A BVS-ga THR Ay anfe aise H da ax wavs faa z |! 
araaratfe et ute art feat: yar, feera: 
wa Ute afearedet some feft HT: 1 goe 1 
sat Uepa Wa ante vet & ya uM sist Ho ste ster FT 
van 1 afe ae ue Uf @ ae St eam sist Se HET BI TAT | 
AUT eT Pore: WAT THATA AAT: | 
fire, farsa yerarfer cart wearer: 1 208 1 
ufe, ste att HAT Hl BEN VE WAH BN BTS J IM HT Hart 
WW HBA BT fo FT aT tax afeg S sit A sited B aT Wy st 


qen ufaet Sree ah as 


gar a3 ¥ 1 9 siet Haus B yo a TSH go B aT 23 F sik 
afea at Uf A sitet S 1 Se sit Ge eM | 


ae aeUT Teer TRAIT Wat ATT | 
frorat wifes quot facta + TarerT | x0 1 
qa A om UP St a eens Faas aRavs HI ta sis amfe fata 
qeavs & MN Fz 30 A aT SN IM Ha Hl WAS VI Bs F VISA 
a wae wt eT 
weed wat eae are Ute aa ate 
wate fata: caren gd ef crates: 1 eee 
qa afe 2 of 3 &t oem ote fade az Gos wr aM OT ea 
wa sienfe at ada az Gos SPT HT | 
FAUT Fa WIT ad Feat SaTgeHS ATT 
were ae fare at qdet aa UAT 1 ez 1 
Wel HI Zo GT AMT ear ces Hl UP A aSA ST eS EM | swat 
ofa Sr Gan Uap UPS eT ae See ft ster aT faaat at 3 ae fara | 
ANCA TeaHh Mat Area: | 
HATS Fe Tareas WRIST fay Fry t x23 | | 
ae OT GB SSAA Ve (THT F eae Fates Tat seas Galea 
Hooray) froarery ot fates wet oret @ 1 (erat ga at aaa & ary 
ya fags ga a ARs Sata Her Sra tae HA S A Ue ss 
4 gear & sam are dia aft adae vem 8 | 


Gat (22) Aa (3) A Aarts (w) Aer («) Aa (8) 
ATT: (22) TAT THAT Mery ATATATH | Aw | 
wits ait fags ga & vem dena @ yes dw ate art oder 
TOA Het H HAM: 22,9 a v Ht ofa Sat & 1 am age ura 
UTA Ue (Ro) Bq aH Tat HH S Bra Slat & taka HT: ¥,F,22 
aT wat etdt 2 1 


ea ars Wer Beare fetear (24) areafyaterar: 

we Te Hea: Tat HF APS TT HAT 1 2x4 I 
fat ufet org (24°) Wot Bt a saa we frareaa F 1 afer 
SSH Ta sieit HY afer ats eT S OM HI Cy SB AT VAS 1 Ha HT 


a 
| 


Re. : Serer 
Tet (2%) Aeash A: Bie WA ees Thay 7 
MATIT CATT YT ATA BAA: | vze | 

wa Ufa wT ase wy” (8 x ey UT ada Ue ard) St at Saar 

WH SSAA HA WV (kX + 3+ ¥ Va) Ba B, TAH WE 

Wey wm @ 1 ta & aa feae a saa eit UP (0, go, Wo, 

Quo AST W) SARK VT YI Sta | 


Te SH fe TENA We (3400) ATH HeieHy | 
Wares Hrs Aly TTT 1 VW 1 | 
SCAR Ve HT We at ofr nfs S Won we usw fea Hl oa eT 
(3g00) B a Aa S| Ha Hl eM Ve F wea & (ale Gs Hr ait 
aa ve FH Bl) sae aera S 1 Ge cal wT HeAleg fers DE STMT | 
vefersta sare are afte: | 
TeReare Uftrar qwrt Heit (yLoo) STAT | exe 1 
De wT uf A saat Siear, aA Ue aI aq ara frat 


1 sea ag a We wt thaw nfs a an ae Uf wt Hor Wear. 
(g¢oo) @ aT ea B | 


ARPA TAT aw FEAT: (22,G00) TaTeRIATA aT: 
Te aw Wat I Was aftafsar: 1 xx¢ 1 


HA Bl FA Bo HT HEMT (Goo) H sitea F 1 ale ae arf et 
| AH ST UW (22,00) Y Ha Hl Fea F 1 wa We wT fea along 
em aaa sea 8 & fier sat Waa are Jey SM | 


tet y afer ote: (go) Gt aaa aTATL 
WATHM (48) ST: Beeler earTa: 1 Ro | 
ad areas fer ar afters eyes: (U:) Go AVS (AST) FU TAT 
ug fer a we ates fea Sra & | oe aT aras fer Frere at fafa 
ae , . 
wet fet Aeca: arearenrcarferstxa: 
yercatatrare WAY ST AL ATTA: HET: 1 LAI 
ufs an sea (St Ufa ve fiefs a ora) aA Heer B | Tea 
are 4 ot gf ar ufer sie § adt cra B11 sae ae ofa nfs HoT 
O IAT AE Rl Go cus A agar Graa sera ar ufos rare 
€ 1 ee wifes cee @ Uf ar sea (era) Prepreaa F | 


1 O83 | Phe) bh colt -EB Reb IWRiboB bP? b? 
f ths Links SBE) (RHE) Lhe be IBID Ib 
| 2 WE Bibde i» 
JajO bh be ('3) ied Ip ke le (h) abi ‘bh t be be Dipte bh by 
@2e Bikde ie jpiaye & Bile pe | 2 ite Bikde ie 1aye (Lis) 
miph re (bb) pips) (lz) aj 3 le blah Met BE | 2 Iie & (Init) 
Bie Bie bDe i IID Ip} th bl?hk bib id IR 3 B bite Ye lap 
& UP I 1D rip oh betes hib Lb ial & B bib 4 Wap & 
1 B83 1 Like Bho Belbts Ibib+D Dib bh 
| :bRsphevkohw bilbalebyti cpsltste 
| Pie} bie le Yet Jelp zke | 2 ith 
B ibe fe Wr & ‘app & ‘Lapa don 2pEte rye Hol P Lasky lyobs 
| Pik} Why Ie pete pebieia feb ld IhsDejide Bo fre de Ls |b 
WJ dob | Pde [po [bE deb Widble} [yo PeoDeJ15 fo JAY? Yoko | Pb 
eb lbPS dp Bidb] Ibolbte LDte fe (0%) Ie kip (03) lay 
& ((08) IY deh A) oe bbb) bib DE de PeIRII> ye BbP-|14 
Tha 1 (oonhIBARsthast) Bb bh} Ee (PEREIOSIE1IS0d3) 
JhIDYPD bpp) (EWIALENBEE) Lei PB 
Me b> Ibe (87'0R'70'R1EBR'BB‘EBIPOR‘OR‘RH) ENDPloj ie 
— (PEAS) beynks (hse hy eigeste‘eines‘oh's) bkep 
URET LE (REIIRARS RR SBIIF77 BB RAEN? AE) LP} 
(oostsdh'Bo' ashes “SB'A) fr (068313733th73) Len baj ls 
rb? <P? (ARTS PBBIAAR'P9'P7IBad Rh dd) Lb dpi 
(PEATIPARLIDIOS) SBh Sbhibribink) br PRIa? wD 


| 2 WW IDE bibb (a)le Sod) bb le 
PDS 4 |Sok Ebjb| d Be bids & Bb Ene bie | 2 (2blblbP 
4 Bb bhp) inib bbe Pll (bielh lp ph od B bhb}) blbbkte 
1 ERS 1 Lb) MhSHb elk BYR UB} wh [PP 
‘Hi2} LnRjb Bib Pdbebiese 
(1 2 (4B wh lol ibe B Bb php) we proie 2ekl R 
bBb} bo ‘iP Bb | 2 ld 007% by (AJ2) Lik 83 ge BE Pelle 
1883 1 Pp pipsphp) tpepb easier} 
EBh) Sib (007%) Salm B clk WaDIB ph bjs 


ss Tekjab Djlmote Ypjh eB 


Reo Ferert atop 

gad fata 8 oeg area GST (3 TA Go BT) (384) TT AA eet 
R HA S 3,2, TM Hl TT (3waeireuceore) BW AM BA a 
(20 J¥o o8¥183 C8 GBVILY, Yo ool) AVN | FA HA B staat apy 
3, 2,2 TEM BT GSAT ( BVqQraeVoigsag) BF AT Sy we sl wa een 


TAHT ATT FHTE (4 ¥oo!3, VORIe Riou) ST HHT SB 3, 2,8 TAM HT Feary 
ZI 


Pergqeanrs a wre: wea Uae TATE: 
qa fade wstat caqecaraa: 1 tt | 
ia ofa srq @ 2 afer wr arg, 2 afet & area ¢ Ufe sq vert 

uw Sa: 3 43 ate fadts uf ar searg feerm | was aft a wa 
at wa @ | 

Warts TAT (xe\94) Tata TAT 

© (2988) TeTfenihqa: (2929) 

TETRIS (2R RQ) HTH TAT: (2's8G) 

WouTR TS, TA: (EG) 1 YW! . 

(2) BHM, (BOVE, (3) VI, (¥) WW, (4) WRVE TAT (G) NEG 
meat seer Aq tears weet 
SSIS AT WY TAT: HY: SAT TM H 1 io | 

wa & ie onfe & af a gen ane q a & sea srg (WPT) 

@ | sea (ydfarfes), sreq (afary fares) , cert (AIeaPeaTaI WT HUN 
wl aH,) aed (rey at ap ) oR wey ot aera at set aaa OTT 
eT ATT APTS Tease: OAT, 
WIAA Ta Hrs Ta: TAAL GS FT: 1 L3R I 
ST tart OE Ua ar sea arg Prarent & fara ystga H srqaR 
va wi & faa gas a oferit & ax aus frara @ | 
aatfe fates: aharte farastaran: | 
qerfe +a waver ast feaa Shearer: 1 232 | 
AR Bes st en a ca a wee ok ae ata afer & 
seargatt @ vera & ae fade sik aia dim uferat  seargat a 
wera B 
UeTyea Ut waat: Wea: HTT! 
eee aT ey waa ETETTAT: FATT: 1 8331 


get Ufaart wrente aut, ROR 


faqad Ta & Fea ag ea aT (Se Ve RO HT 
qua) PBT We ST tart HT VST ST MEH HL Sy Tea FT 
aearg were UPR aT freer FI 
graders Brera TPMT AAA: | 
AAATERTAS ATT TTA AI HEMT | VVwx 1 
Wea TW A aa & aga ve Fost afer sea Btdt & sat 
aaa aaa Ff saat aa Ue area erat @ | 
ST SH HT: Bra: Yrad Bread fea: | 
Usardétieraariat asarht: Wy TaTH: 1 234 1 
SRT (TPT BHT STAT Ny STMT) Say (TART FT Y/R stata Ro STMT HT 
sera at af & seaar at ae fare aram | yan feu ofa 
afer st at V3 Uist a eta gen Prarer eri sta: we ToT UPR 
sea @ ofa gee ert | 
aa AERA: Tat ada aa Az 
we srat reat Frererear what Aa: 1 gaq 1 
siefaes up] tia wl Sie MEER wt 1 ae fare Ufe HS aH 
gore site arate fare | avait at sa Ui & sea a A IPT 
cael 
BAA (30) fea Tea: WATSATEISAATAT: | 
FE HATA: Mea MITHTCAVAT: | YB | 
30 ST MT Vy UR Ta ary (AT USA arg) ana B 1 gaa Gaited & 
ae $e He A Berd 21 Me a sam ae H Ufa & yea He 
PATA Tera z 
Maas AAS To WT: aafehy: (30) 
POT BRL ATATAT ATTA WaT Aaa: 1 R3e 1 
STS Bs (free arreft uP at gol sca AT A AS UH) Bl R20 
BT az sa Uf a sea a am AA a sa us wm sist anf 
arom | gaa na uf den freraih | a ara ara ae 
Wena dates weriehtata ope: 
am: tater Ufraterfer amt Hearfehe: 1 23s 1 
ara ara Ff ataare ar upe @ faada dear ath f (Capea 
4 afe sist on saa wert) ) Be st eas & ee ana aa wT 


RoR . frera 
ufs sist wenfe erm | 


ee een 
STATA UTSAT HSA SATAAT: TATA: PHeT: t Y¥o | 


ASLO ieceha i Lau hie ibe a 


are VE! Tt H Taq ary S AMT Aq MW TM sia snfe sam Ta aray: 
wpe Ua F Aisa TAG serie HeTA W Spe TMA STMT | 
TaN HET ME A Tere Perr: | 
CATA AT: AMAA: ATCA PTAA ETT: 1 exe | F 
serif ee ora aon ier nw set er Sea AT 
TT FT 20 SUNT SI A YH ag eT | 
RASH CAAT: Aah ATs: | 
anreiaret ey RE BraTaAaT a: | eve I | 
sae aaa WT (sea Te HH) H TE A aH SH UH UPL HT 
sea ry SSA ort ql wr ates org ot ges HSH) ore ory 
eqaies & ae ar ge ae erm fra WHS aE TM Sea VT | 
ara at ar fray 
Wey ash waren fareterariy: | 
vafearataa wr: urearsag woe cafe: 1 ex | : 
fre (faga waa) ¥ oferat & sea a & Ae a aT 
area fea arn 8 1 fed & wea ca frat aaa ot F we & 
(fears VAs FE Ie) TA Ue Aa ret Hea F 
ATH: Rea TH TANT Wa: 
ere Se Tay Aetay Yea faahstar: | ww t 
ydad area (sta 4) A are va fra of A a sa Uf wT 
faqa wrsrs SeaarA ATA YH Ad TY (UP H yw Bie S) Hepa! 
att Aererasdise earn: fs TTA: 
Wea Taya sree Perea ee: ge ATS: 1 Avy | 
aa F saw Ys UVa H seq sry Bee HA S Ferg) VWs 
ST sq erm (faa & ys ui Hr seq sq Fel He) TAA 2 A IM 
aT I 
wrth gar: weer sified fiers era: 
FONTS, TR AA SATA ATH: 1 YE I 


ges ofan erate ToL 203 


* arpa Ufa (aed UP) H Sey srg GS AT AA A signif Ga tM 
za 30 8 Tera | oops UA & wea a afe A Ae cigar area 
neq cra ST | Tae fants ara @ sat Geen He a 
aeagd Fe aT: Aedes scat 
fe Ua: BITHICT ATAT ATT: 1 Vv | 
qe AA A SPT | SS AeA AA aT Bears ot Hea FS 1 ATES 
uaa a we (feard & are faraat ana ata gar & ae afar aa B) 
ad area @ art ta wy OPS aT 
are aie freer qed wet TSHTTTT 
DHA Vera WOT eat Ws afafy: (30) 1 eve | 
faga ara 8 da are wera | fee wa ameft Uferat ar fage 
SeaaA Bera | sryepe Uist & sre (ferava sa Ue a sea aM Ae 
a2) HT Uf H Beare A aT S go A WOM HL | 
aT Tea writen wrest a yay 1 
facts deed See wait Herd fers exe 
_ wa 8 of aw ofa sis at ee seit Hert A Ae 
aT | 
WIA, Ua AAAS Yew aT AArafe 
ACMA MARTA PACE TAT TATA: 1 eGo 1 
ye at fas aa Perera era aie aa are areas ta & yar 
are ary BHA VY A Sa X FB MH ae Tal Ui H sem | a am 
aa & | 
THM TST ATA: wr VaTATTaAT: 
SM Fe Wee as: Bare FEATS OHS TA A: 1 Ue I 
afeg sit anfe at ye aa FH tfa @ Beran atk ufea aa Fst 
Bey ora em 1 fears & eA EH! a ta BH Aes TA BT | 
wea Ts STATTY Altra: wrest wee 1 
SMATAT: (30) Wet Vt GH, SL TEA: TSE SASHA | 
Ute Fret arts (30) fag wer TT: AT 
 AMsetsfite BTR TH FT CTSA: CHET 1 22 I 
ue on frat searg Prorat wt worrett-sraater vet et ace ata 
BA vam gd at ace wa) w se uf she sae we at af at 
Seay Sta A atrerrter S WM BT (30) S aT Aa 1 ee UM, wT 


Yow Toarat ety 


TEATY AE Ht UM H Seay S HA SA KW al al se UM H saarg 
FH SSN sea on afer SA we wera | 
Say (as) UA at ae aha eA & uw sa ufe sik saa 

User Hl UP H SAAT BW SA Hl Saar B AVM HT Fo A AM BY 
1 Ha SH Fe UM HI Vea Saw Ved wl UM H seag 8 HR 
SA Ot BSN sag Ferah | 

UTA WTA HY Aral Saat 

AT (LIVNI) FATTHT: (3,885,282) 

me Ae wel qacahafast ee feet: Sy PAT 

eet Wega we Aad: tarde fee wpet- 

arafaaraeern aadateaa: aeafa: 1 263 | 

Star (TaTH) THY UP Ht ae Ta Sy Ue UT UPS (AG, HH, ToT 

att Feat ) mr area sik fra sea aka faye ee A aa zt 
art tart &¥ ft ae att gen a are sik er seas wa & 
(ga yet at af at sea A WAM EAH HRT Seay BH IR 
wet Brat) | 
Sa (rae ) HY yet a ace fa eM we fe eam ( fAqa, ST, 
aa, Ata) wierd an faye we ae een ok Ae Ufeat Ht art cari 
4 arr ak fer sea a Ga BIT | (gas HS wT Oe HT Sea 
PATA BT A HIT Strat ANT SAT)! 


TAT: TS, PFs (3148) HAT: BATT (wiev) Tae: 

Bat: (Qo) UTAH Pye ara (4g) TET: 

HTT (41) Tora TAHA: (4122) 

ate ardqi wrteee are cyeftt cost: Wa: 

MN TATA HATA HEAT USPS: | Lg | 

sepa & neq H fe afer a aaa A evs Sik ual A eH 

SA THR FAT (BGUTT (vv), PAE (WI), BAH (Ya) fae 
(4I3¥) BAT (GIA Tee HAS TR aaTS Ger sifa sr FHT A 
SHUR FH BATA UIA Sea HS TT FI 

FaraTAH A: (vito) PATA (wi4g) aforray 

TATRA (4129) AforTaTOrTH: (41g4) BMT: WR TT 

(QI Ry TerterraTPART: (41RR) SPOT SUT: (419g) WITT 


Tr (Qigg) Tak: TTS: (ey) FeTaTONTH: (134) 
ware ferhar ft (wig) TATTATS: (3148) FHRATT I N44 I 


ger TAA HUME eT, 2ou 


fas (GIRG) BA (GIR TAT (4132), TH (4138) FA (4iex) 
qarat (4184) FT (813) Tar ATA (R1¥e)! 
adarat fre Fest ara AT: HATH: (wig) 
MTT (412g) CPT (4122) We fafa 
(Ql) Fat: Baresnfae: (wiv) 
aerre Tr (v139) erfey Gaterfeaq wary 
Ura, Varese GP AAAT ATeireT TET TA: 1 tue | 
fag wars | Uferat ar Frat searg & Age (wiqwevs , va, as 
(Mike) FAA (IRD: HH (4184) FHS (wiev) HAT (wige) | Tet safe 
al at AA Set HAS VPM | FE AMA 22 seit & faa Z 1 seis 
geet UW saH AM A} aaerT | 
sea mH aferes yer ufeat treated: arfeat 
- aerfaerit aqarergant tera FeraTcerar: | 
(aaa Ya Weaes: Te wee: ) 
GANTT AH: WAIST UEHeT GHThT TraRaT : 
TATE: AFT TI ATTY (03) WA WITT: WAT | we | 
wage Agat Ht ya ae W Heft wi she afes onfe H srqar 
wel TT S| Uist aT ga we @ 1 fer onfe qa eq a & 
STAR He WAS 1 ( Ge wa aie FH fen wen 8) vfs A faga 
ak wiftae Urea Bafa st 0g feat fore wet wet & free faa 
at ge feat & fore saa nfa at aera aw at ward? BI 
faaret sift ora canta fte faad (0) @ (0) 
HUTT (3%) FERTAT: (32) saat (4k) TITY 
(34) SHAT (&) AAA AAT (43) 
AUT aT (Re) fearart: (23) HeaTerret 
TRAST WA ATHAT: (90%) BOTS RTE 
TWAT (3) GOT (9G) FaTAT:, (33) Prater 
(v9) AFT (29) Yorfofatay (xo) 1 Rue | 
faga aif qa wena at the nfs fame 
lolol BQiBVGRBWlEIGTIS @ 1 Haq ws wey fea fear Ay fas 
U wita faga wana (902) faa (He) Se WAT Bt HUTS ( cee) 
SRT HTT Aa STATA TPT BiVErgaivwlWivo | AT | 


Brean at reraTHi pra whe WAT META Th 
TAHT (A919) FaTaT faceted (goo) 
BAT YTTT (WG) WHAT: | 


RoE fasrt edey 
Ue aaiMeares Greatest (ux) site: Bre ey - 
CRT CUT FAT TAHA THAT CAVE TAT: 1 UR a 
ware arrest & Taast & arpa sraqien Frererst & faz are 
fafa va ver @ 1 ofan ad dea (Hers TS & arpa) A saa 
VER ATT TISHE WSS ASTHA | Her H (Roo) B WIM HE (RG) @ 
aT oF aw Hens arm | TS (Go) A AMT AA a aA SAM | 
Tay SR Gy Feyagy | 
TE ara ay ar Sahigs (ax) ASE Tat: HTTAT 
qeidiera weg: fafatrd fear aratea | 
RaAseaaa: Hapa Warer aear: feet 
RATATAT WA FA VAT: EY UIA: | Eo | 
(@rra aes vent after seems ) 
uftfere Yo aray wpe wet wt Aare dia UP & ex BVS wt VT, 
wit Hel, MERA Gt HT saad, yeshasa ws Tavs srg, 
faqaad aT TeaTy aM sea srg stfaw (atest) & ata H fara 
fact wet & 1 =n avs & ata & wha anfe srqara ar sai | 
a aaa WT TM yt aca 
ae Se woererie fates arit Prater cat 
TA YoRTaTSs AYerarta Are TT 1 Eg I 
ae aa afad et ae ada ar Ff See et SH & ATE ATA 
a fag fra wy 4a we a oe Ofe wea ar sree fet a aM we 
WA: vita atk ae, vee, ora anrfe ate we oe fe at Prati a2 €, 
ak fora wy 3 wiftrat & sar & faa years aa at gfe we va 
Araraa aret sare at } aeat aT s I 
THA TIT FA HT TAT | 
ot Tz Tet He Tfrashahrs 
ferara ator sorted arerate 
WesarEvy caret Weare: 
ya wer sstar & fawara usa FY set sree Wear aN 
eorfrea wa arate & fae fesra cir Farha, ger cfr sik 
ax ats FH VT WHI AAT Bai | 


ee oe en 


AA: WaHTeT: 
URGE ALE 
wepeararte aoa 
fey te era wera sear firaret 
fa Wet ATH ASA ATR UH 
werracrea af water: 1 2 1 
amt & arr ae Seer & fae <a Wes ATA Were HT SIT 
an & forra fen, ena atk Waa HT A ae ATT A BT 
fen (fexm) ar fata 
fen, arene wait ast Haat 
aafaferer aga (Rx) Prater 
Gay Avs AST AAT Aey Yat 
QUE Fart Preatr WHET V1 
fen (fesn) an fata we & fore fret cera a aa wt ade & 
BAM WAT A TA Sy Ws RC TA AW YW set SaaS HT UH FT 
Sie he teat a eae oe yh eee 
ae Tata Fa BA WT, 
Thr fafa e frat aa fare cear 
TAT WC ITE WATE CHT (24) FAT 
fara are facet etary 2 | 
ie at ora aa at off ar at ax cast ett (ja ora wT 
wraré 2¥ 3iqe ) at fast wx fare Sa TS UH Ten O fear 
TA SE HR ATRL Ay SHYT Ua (HATS) HT UH UH Fa VTA | 
A AAT WAH AAT TAT 
areata fate pe Teo Art: 1 
fae wae ayn eer fer dha 
Wry fag Read TH HA TTT MeTT I ¥ I 
eat ga ws car a at fargeit ae Heh den sae ata wT aT, 
ae at arepfa et drm | aver sea & ya sit Gea, tM HA 
O fargait at fray a Sa Sfar Var SP | Te Var Bra a SoA, 
Var (Ufefer a Vat fargsit at kan) we crest Sth | wera siz farts orn 
fareatt & ata & as aaa A wifes ahs aga Ha ered F aa: TA BS 


foe ferent =a 
fear ara 2 | 


aes of aaeraeire wat areca warfarat fesiber: 1 
fewer Ya aa qa wqeata = daha fafessacaada: 1 41 
efarire foam ay cet fern Hae fea a ae qa at aes a 
wag att cfm fare or frerm | ee fare & cas SK ors GT 
ad sik ufara fare feerm 1 yd, ofa, afer sex feen wry & are 
BO ATT H fara et Frm]! FH feensit & aha H Arg HM et APT PI | 


wgeara Hie Bla we Sof PASAT A 
antes a: Git (gvy) facteat wagers wT wATAT: 
atolarercaty ae: wet aifearg 
IS ATA APE Soh Te YA 1g | 
Rig ot otk orn aot ar att ar yer Frarey & wef Slat B 1 af 
at a vig ar at (gee) Serer sere FS Fraver & ora (fara wife 
pea &) edt 1 wel ot a ae of werk ae ger HA | ap (iG) 
Brat & 1 yet sie ate ary ar frens areft Yer at auf Bea F 1 
ai ye freeret at fafa- 
ard at wer fara wterg yet fefret 
Heal ST ANH AAA Teaeaey AAT 
waer Wet feqirs fre rer red WeAT 
CaM wraeatt TO was Sars FSM: 1 wt 
at afr & afet @ aa ok fags ew fag OF) airs faa 
aia S fart den a at ge wHat s, Teva | FA Yet SH) UH ste 
wet Fea 1 Tee at er wee oot at aret aa Tf aT aH 
To Wa & ae fer Sar a faas uf TaN | Tea Bera Waa afer 
er aT wera 1) fe ot at et ae a Ta Uf A SS | Ta THK 
art Ff at ute ert sae aren se af ar et ENT | 


yeareca: wrata wer get wre feafrett 
Fert yet Ta (&) Ea Tet (x) YCtt TH: 
_ Ree ferar afe we waanfiraisat fa Pret: 
daria (x) ot Heaa ae FT THT AAT Ie | 
(aaaa areh uferat -cce fear a wer fawen anfe at ai qa) 
mara uf & gers aus 8 ferertt ont uf ae wad J aes 1 Ba 
at fot aware 2S fe ae ow at Ue He Ya a HAS oT Ae | HA 
Or HE Tas 3 Bp al) Tas Yor Be WN A UH Tea wa 


fares: . RoR 


goa @ ame 1 wa He sie SM | 
afe 9am We Tet aa a saa sifas et a Ta 2 @ EM Hr 
g cos AHS | TAH TA HF ¥ WN A 8 sist @ WA GeT a am 
yt went aufe Wet eT | 
af Ya sik ae Fa fra GI Ya ST | Fa ve wh saga 
ant Fel Frere SVT | 
agers wore aferer Ara Fert fe WA (192)- 
wea Fer sata Gea: Yar Hata Hr 
wae eet Taha: wre ate wen 
aye ferarfe a fraterara yoad ae was ie 
ca weft @ sigqeta Frere & ara (ofa wafers A ara aaa 
wre A to at HT STITT) APTA He HoT HM Ae SWI UT sry F wz 
fea I SIAR Star B | Sa: Waa TA a Yet Ge STATA @ faster 
afea | (ae wa fafa ®, eRe cereal Uae gee era retar 
BT HAT USM) 
et Ae Wr awd Fa ATghe 
at CANT TARA SHcareancwaerar 
stat Dre: |fa veferet eo feat fafear 
weured eae faafert ad Pea ayfEm: 1 (G0) 1 Yo | 
a de staaa are &t uferat ar prs ¢ went A Sat &, WH 
Were sas BY SR at dat staaat S aret ster ster WUT 
Ble staaqat wl Us Up wa afer ax aiea 1 Ta eR we a 
area at is stage & . rae we (Gs), fer (go at arm), fafern 
(fom 1 go at arm) WET wa 1 Ste UES at ifs oie Fra 
ttm qefafe a eo won, fase wa di aie w fawn a 
DD URES Va ACV er ensy Ua Sales apet te eT en 


Beat aa ayy iear weayqen zate 

arafearat Terfafe wat geste: farce: 

feat ararrat fart wearent ate 

Heal wrat Heaad Yt afdat are Aeqa | xz I 

MP HT Ia STA AM SA aT TH HT UMM BAA Bike ite ST | 

orm at qa & ta at qd aen sen ga at afta wary er 1 Rig 
TT se wes dt a Gat eK Taal Sars B y2z aM BH aiqa 
FST STMT | 


RRo THEA qehoy 
aaa Prarat & fae sm wie at oft wih aa OTT ony 
am a fies tar A caer ore neq S Sat adh art Seat 
yfavs aT TaAaA Wala fasta - 
rat fae fafa faced cary focatersray | 
ware Proafs wat ara Wares, 
waaaTeM aha Meat WaT 1 ez I 
are site we at Sard ar afeaes a aT GST aX Sa BAM 
wel em ae fas tax Ta a at or W VAN |! ae favs att 
orn #1 fem 4 ya & fran a asm, aei & arat ort wt at 
art | gam fare ery (Aaa Ht Has ) HT V2 aT ¢ ster fie 
wram | foes ae Sam ae ATG HT Sits St STAT HT RT VL VPM I 
Br Fang fewer aq aeT fat: ater 
aerard ao qfa aaisctad: AT A Seay) | 
Tere Hef farts fay qat (3g) WA Faarat 
He Farag PeraqT (Ree) WH EAH ATET 1 kB I 
wei fra Br S a FH Her TT wer ae Ge fora HES TA 
wg wt ora 81 Aer a tet ora aa vig om & ate ait 
arent oe a & ax fag 8 rar tel ord 1 aif We fora & aR 
F aera swat anit we araran wh zat 81 TAS At orn ard B 
aa: Gt Sz a orn we cane fare & fay wg ora FH Tea 
YB BM Sa SHH yeat @ Gs wt att YF orrarsy HT (2x) 
TT zs | 
aigde: Sie weifectea ara mare prea: | 
qares Fad ata art yet aa fres aq wt gh 1 wv 
vig HY ac wife dt Hel soa & 1 wa sik FL Bra Sl HET 
€ 1 qari atk afe of ar am a saa yer Sy a sof aT eI 
ea aife, qr ae af @ afer (aaa ) fre erat 2 | 
We Wat Are Wal WAAVST AeA | 
Preretrat a ar fagaaeear fran ty | 
WH Fed Fa ONS a aaa ast Ga feraat Ba a wT AH Sha 
%, We Whe ade at are Var 8) Ys @ Ghat Geafeas Sat Bre F 
wa yata ga wed & 1 yeat & faga oH fae ae wR sree faya 
ern & 1 gaan At aragiet ea AT STF 


oaa fufas Cast Tass Gass aq 
qayarsared Tatreats Wheera: 1 tg 
aaa ead & Ue, UTA Tea Sat wa SB Sm ean ga et SHS 
e | ; 
frat Prag ah qa afaet 
PATA FMP, WH WAT AAT: 1 vo | 
Se) ee Sy See 
aa HIT: GT EM Baz | 
at gv ayad uftora yar 31 
Hosareasty Aer: Spire @ gare: 1 ve 1 
ara a ast HT Ue Met ware Tas stare fayqa, wage 
ye faqved (Hat) AM sa ad HI Sas ar cara fear | 
Fe WATS MW Aq WHE Yaees, ferar 
aera faraeer aa aT fread 1 ee 
fat ve fer & sig at aeae area ore afe vig Ae A Ta 
a aH St a se ort sik Tet wast H faga orn & are sit saz 
SMM Ta 3m Hea z | 
area Vea Ara fayaesra AT AAT 
aa qvSet Tat Ta F ARNTTAT t 20 | 
afe ora vig Yor S afar wt ae et faga orn a ea wT aM 
Sa a ve fea sae wa at se ert | 
faqae fet ceren er irarda: 
afa te: wererat afactea edrt 1 et 
aa fea 4 ad faga & au tear fear ara wet & ( Parga ten 
WH cea Sia 3) are: sa fea years Fo Od sey caters B faa saz 
a afar dat 8 | ae Ta VIM HI VT oH aati e 
Hares tareqean et WATT: 
aa weareara faga fer FET aT 1 BVI 
waist et gd on faye fer aeare & ana adit erm 88 1 WS 
va wag feraca & fat Ha ea 2%, ae Bais Slat 1 Aa 
a Getter sterier & Brat aM Sarai Hae BH ara SM B 


BRR ferert com 


qt freien et BS yea, aot feb 
WearaeT TAara aearat efariy wer i sty zt 
a2 sitet Rigg wen Geta at FST (3¥RC) @ SEM ST TA a 
We arf Sarr Sy ae cae sik terse Sra S| STH ATT Proaedy 
wR ae wae crate ate arate een & | ae era sk setter Sen: 
Ba crit & Sar F cfr sr B (aed faqa B se B) I 


erat WT Wt aed fer Wa 
SRO Vat ware. qa: Ta FEATS: 1 WI 
US OT BRT aha STaT- 4 
aa 4 fasra & agar ad te (aera) wT aT Bro i at 
wre aia frprert at fafa wera 1 cfavttet Tat WR WEANS HT 
at asi (Sr) Bra | 8 
aa Aafia fea sofa ae ey: Hel: : 
aa aeare qatar qt atetg efron: 1 qt 
i ras ean ee a 
frarei | ae Hears qa at aeae srfere adie (acters B aft 
am) % 1 ate orn am (qa) faye fea (feaoa aoe Bt wa fae 
Yar & a BY) et ora ama & afer 2 


art ae: Sata wha ferata wea: 
ferte fata: ae fateoer: araferftet t 2 | 
aan ary Greg (faye) orn see at 8 ht faga arfa wer (sieareT) 
att Fae He AT sis Fae Qs HH wiht HoT st ae at fagqa | 
ora cen afa orn we fee A a dt ora we aha Her rare | 


Tt fran-nmensasase aat 

Was HVAT HA (eeeeexy) TEA 

TIM PISHET: TasaaaH: 1 YW I 

qi foardt * aan Were (HeaISTMsersaa) - vert faga 

orn freret & fae aaie (it aes 8) at sen ST aA, Ta 
art at fasat (avec) ai (geeegery) | @ Beret Ta TT 
Par a caren Freer | (TSR Te A AMT STR AT 
frerm) | 


wrarat Tet aay TAS BF verterar: 
Tears Tats feH, Maca ASAT | 2% 1 


FTAA: RRs 
arn a ot (me) a at fate Sem Fi say Se aT ST ve 
eee ee ee 
ceriet site Fare) ST SAE HAS 
far, He Fala HriTerear fay (3x3¢) Aisa 
TRATTHA FAT (RQ) TAT FASTA TY: HAT: | i 
foe fa SA OR Veg, atk Aaier Hl Steer El wi Prepay | 
qgita HY wr art Pret (8x3¢) ST RT VS HIT ST (2390) A 
am zat ga eT STS Pare | ASST aT aT wer A Prareth | 
WRITE: ATT Sarat waatet ardareqar 
Teret ard AAwATHTEAT PTET | 30 
ae YSU (FST BT He) GAH we (Hare 3 TMH) Ter we aet 
sa wy at gd @ fadta we (wh onfe 3 oe) A wet as oe 
a yeah, ada oe (gen arf 3 UPS) FTA RW sa & OF A HSN 
am age ure (Hat sife 2 UP A) A cet OR gz UA a aera 
aatat ta fearath que Epes Tees: 1 32 1 
a ara tia F facta ara & seit Weer HA S ( Fatwa HT 
ante farg Be of Tard IPA Ud S STA TSA UE TAA Berah) Feat 
ay & ope ot ute anfe ares ert 1 
VPS, MAAR A He AA pe Tat 
HARat CASA STAs: FeasT ATH 1 3 I 
Fa Up) Ta Hl a Welw SB Vera St SE He eM Tae fanta 
Ver & ape tia ol Wear HA (Ae) Ua STAT | a a fae 
ae we neq ta a a fea (Se BS) PT 
a fear -craref wey qfrite, arts 
ey fareaeres: aret a: arfe af 1 331 eft 
a fora 8-aeares ara a orn Sk Bren wef SAAT (Gs St 
ST sty aT G)- STA LAA HI stair sie eae aries Ge at 
wa us fer a a a ae f 1 otk fas fen A A a vera: ae 
Wa a neare anfere sate erm 1 gaat year atk etfs aATy | 


weary seat fast TaTHNy . 
alferr frase srarant aecat i ax 


Rigp & sheers AM (22) al ae (Aa ST aS) BS PN ww 


RQ 


SS 
SATAY SEY AT SR SATE Sr STAT HPT ATT ST 
NGsake aa Gala 1341 : 
saver yd aire site oe car areata gat & orm Geaw 
& HM fazer (fearga ten) ox faassen F 1 ssa aT Tat AM Tae 
thearé (re sre) & fart qa ww vem FTTH ee 
(Fagad qa ae wig) cfaror ara VI wR SU aT FH tem 1 (Te ae, 
Rafa a saeSse HK Se wt Cpa HI SVS Vig Hea eS 


fayae sronsarett wut we qeat Taq 

fsipresa weet ae wa AST 1 Et 

UTA x Tf . : 

sae TF 

saVST We x eT 
UT 


d 


= ate (8 ea Fe 
2 Wer sr eras) 


afte ee Ga Werarea Agana area: 
Meal waa: wetata <afeargs: 1g | 
see an afer het ga ate a see A tea a wet a ree | 
wep Sr LITT ST STAT F 
AMAT SAAT AAT Porate Fa WHAT ‘ 
ATTA TAT BH TET, CHAT Hwa: 3 | 
srr reat (are eh eh) AIT ep A I A TT 
Bat By we Fears VE aT ATT Freer @ | 


qi feart-rae qq alfest grea WRSTH AF 
HITT FaTTT BH eATAT VEAAAT | ett 3 I 
satu at san sit aifzon a ere: green wen vigeat wee Bl 
Sey ee Sr eet et) ee et SS 
aw - 
aT arentget ta ast aa TAT 
wee aot gat aeqaorie de srferae: 1 xo t 
Here sor edt & 1 aha at fen saan ae fart ar SX 
Bret & 1 (efaror aera an afarer & sq Here svat) Beara Hi Se 


prgeATfaran: RRQ 
ora wot) SOT aR Fae (eae) B aT St wR wel Gam erat 1 
cqeae & sifaftes THe TAT wT) | 
fe ar nea oof vat area attra yaa 
wee FATA A ASAT CAST Taft HAT! ¥z I 
aqqal SPA FAT HT SITT STM LATAT UL TS a RT (3%RC) 
aq FS Brae S SST SST: TPM a Ts ST MT AF 
at FAT: HEAT St Ho Gara (ge HATH) Vet S| 
qarel afeas ars: yore ada: 1 x? I 
ara tf Aerts § Ufa A Tet we Sat Tet eT YEN ase 
afar # wea ue afar tha A ar 3 


ara We aerate fayaeeradistiret 
TAM AT YF: ASF YT 1 ¥R | 
qa see Tat 4H wert HR at gta smn afe fagad ora. a afew 
a Tt ait wr saz cfart are em (ae feared 4H °2 sia wig H YA 
@ afar erm ) | 
AT deat ater agate | wet & 
aa ware ait: abeiarge féaréeat: 1 xx 1 
SR We F qd wa KW ae oof aca arm fayad ora a FF eT 
— Wt saat cept B Bera HK YS ENT TaN Fe vz Sta wi Fe a a 
at an erm i ge afer tet A wea OK cet aT stk ach quan aT 
SAR AM sin F sik ae are Se fen FH BM Bt (ae yeot & sadt 
Tears & Veit Se area & feu frase 


afe wig Sra WAH Sa Tat (Yat ut Lan) wus a orn, sraract 
UM Se (area Gas Ws ow fatfast A sara al Sarat @ Ad HT) 
wa wees H ta e | ea TNT Gs Ht wif THY ea & sara 
® oraz Stat 3) 


WAAVSA A FT EAM al Vfery Mery 
aeafassay At 7 CN TATU Ta! ¥R 1 
aa a sax wifa stat starrer @ (geal & sad Wears & cart 
38 ad & fay afer A a orn sa waqusa a cfar ct 


BIG faara atu 


= a wt oe wifa aaa a am a ge afar tard FEA a 
BT TVS F Se Set B | 

%. Br Basa (ye vies ta Ws HP sais H araz 

2. ST WSs & clang wife Haig @ sifas | wis stk 
BAM Vt TA) 

3. BIT AA Husa G Tar- WF cfarsy rears | 


aan fayae sre ater aria ere gat 
wavs HF: Card fH arash (gz) Asa | vo! 
ay avscita orn af Freres & fay va F casa a 7M 
a TA SHIA SATS AMT VA Si sya HarSN F ez @ FM we (statiat 
at wT) - - = 


Teamttat SI gat fe at feard sao ear 
aaa fearetor gat auf: w wa fe t xe | 
sR wi St oS am ea F Hae (aaavsela orn wf 
frat & fare) ven 4 fears (orm aaavsal FSA KN Ge WH F 
aRTaT SOT NS TM He fears area Hol-qann B art ea St (fears 
SS Seer ay Smt e Satar ew emi ecs 
gar Hea z) 


are Hoh Tar WT HT Sas WA STAT 
WAAVSe WH: Tala, Hsaas (gecxgexs) WATT | ¥3 | 
marepot (det aot) sat (area) SIT HT ST | AM HL Tet WT 
(meaIPN) aT AW BAAVSa we sa F | TAHVSa we H at 
ar fase oot (2,2¢,28 cv) & set aR 


et SL ST ae aT eA Tat WaT 
frst yt eae (AAAVSSA MHA) THT UN FCAT AAT: 140 | 
atqge freer a one fred & 1 eta A 22 S TT aT 
(eaAVSa) WHE F aT sy a wanvsa orn frwerdt F 1 fsa F x2 
BPN BL TAS ( AAAVSa Vig A) wrt AIA KW aAnvsa Ho ein 
a 
as : _ WA x AST 
SRM- AVS BN Hy = meee eee 
SW Ba SFT xe We A x fears wef 


~ Sat Sha ST ST Tear area atigenn 


Prosar: . RRs 


WAS Vig = 


Tera 

ere = V fan - wresa vig * 

TAVSH BTM = celle Bs 
PATS UB 

PARVSA P= Fava £38 


ad frat -a wae: cara oTaret: 

WHT STAT (2390) Ba: | eI 

we SAT AEH TS TTET FHT 4 | 
wanes vig x state ST ST 
ao a(t: 

aa: ya aerrat orarh up] arent 

aareaa HoT wat: fretsmsrariewy 1 42 1 

ar fa ye B vest at ae aA (HIM) rare ax wae via” 

(araa) fraren ST aaa Fe 1 sta SMT vig Frereat & few sot 
anfe & at H Her ara B 1 ( SER afar B wy” yet a afara x farepit 
wl HOT Hed Et BMT FAT YX SI we Hy A sas 


wT frar-eoariaen fatter (3x3¢) St ot Saari 
was auger afte fist ararqenferar 1 43 1 eft 


near | = Ba sar x fae 
aa 
Het au x Fe HUF 
oo = 
Sree arr varer Fata, fafa mer 


afesat alr wpcadrerd aq facia 1 yy | 
@ Aq (zenith) @ fafast & aries fargat & qa (HPT qa) ws 
wa ye ora & aa a  fafast qa K oa Hl HIT VG Hea z | 
Te aa & cafes S a oH BT BMT Fa HT sit Gs 1 Adie AT 
fafast @ tfa aa ot quiet Faia S| Ta Sai Ht SM A Aart 
et aries Her sip Ht ArT ela | 
a fates, 7a a Brat HoT orafa Ar zat * 
ata WF Tare TAT SA BMT WE TG | 
aa & facta fern 4 92 stile vig w ve ana (a & ara 


Be Fagard ado 


WR Lea H WA) TT BAT BT Ta HT SIT Hea S 1 VTA (TAD Hai 
& aa G4 al at HiT St UT HT Vig HT Brat AMT Stet | 
ate weave wt ary char eat aaeaeT 
aly Mee Marra TAT WTR WTSAT: 1 48 I 
afe were ya afer aa star @ at gate aT vig BY TA (yet 
aferr SIT) Te STATE BMT Vig aA Aes (Ula <feror HIT) vie 
wea é | 
aT Weare aware: | 
SOT VEWATHH: HOTSA AAA ATT! Yo 
Were ys Sa Ad BAR Yate ae sae S ST HT wae: 
dat sik aaa HIT Vig HET AT Fi we BAA AH HIT aula sig 
at ort atk of at werra & wrt aaita sais Praren a aera & | 


Fre AMSA (48,088 SAV SMA ATA Ha AeA (gv). 
Pret ager (92) aH Te af aPTATT 1 Ge | 
farrent & ane & ats oot yet Hz NH (22) H TAS AM HE 
ae wet BY Vis (22) TH S anF sik val oT HTH GMT A Me 


wet cept area af eit Prarerary, 
YA se STH (22) St faqaroraarisa i 4s | 


WH fst (HA) BT BO Her Bray S| TA Aer WS YA: SAAT 
MY 22 sit Waa A WMT HT 


SoaRaTeH (92) YT ATTA at wrgaae wet TAT 
ae at Het ay Tet ata He ATH, | Go | 
3a cea sik 02 Bam Ba 2a Fs a a Ga aT saws | 
wea € 1 sarpa a ot Holl A sear sea oye Frere wa 
ara & sa Yea HEAT | Ge a saws A sea aT eva F 
HAE: BOT WH: CIefaorae Wea: 
qifter-sfasr ot fares gear fread i eet 
afe amr sig Te aT afaror Tet (Yat oz tar a) A St, (qe fear 
esa) fen of a arr vee a of wert oye far a 
aren ( Sereignn ) srt z | 
arin = woot = 88 (Pee - see") 


(I/R + TMT) 


prorsarfarar: VWs 


STUSAT X 3x ATT 


& 
j 
e 
4 


on oR + Tern * 
Wa = V aR + terme 
ar we = sere + yet (gat wt ten a 
SU SM Uz am Aet 
a wera) 
rasiga fara oa Pes ger at 
BT HT T Hy aay wea Ser Hreva: t eT 1 GI 
a ora = SUMTER 
AT BAT Hoy = Liha! 
HIT Wp 
(qd fast Teer Wars) 
aeacearaatiat areadt are atfetar 
AATIHA STAT (2390) Ett AAT ASH | GS I 
fe ee ara Ua SST x RH Hae - 
Wasa 


SATA TARTST (BS3Q) SATAATATT: 
fategearasa area faqs TF 1 ex 1 
wafers 4 wet art os HT HR BST (BwRQ) STF Oy’ 
ate HY ST = 2vRR) TA STAR Fe a Ue HT Ge wR Baa (yaa 
H-) ae area (stare FH) Brat Bt 
ada yatrh: wreak: afta way 
HOY WTS Ad AAT WAT WIS. Ae Tat gy 1 
ta faga A wert a Ae ae HT corit F gata tet (at sare 
aa) & waren wet & aM Yate & HPT Ta a Aart feraar erat 
B saat Ft sare H HM Ga aw Aare wer F 
wrtaa fe at ure we yet feared are 
Wal WATE AHA WATS TARTTAT | GR | 
nee & wea Gt a we orn, aa, sm anf Frere € | 
US lis VE Rk kag 
a He Sta eT z | 
apne Sree FESTA BraTe: Brat TeAT ~ 38 
AMAA TATA: WHET: BPeT: 1 a9 1 


Bo . foara ade 
ae TAA BT Bra ak orn ari aaa fara wt fafe aarett 


wrt 31 ae saa @ we sik ag anfe aaa aa oa ak UE 
Spe fra at aaa F 1: 


FE HST TATA SHAS Wareqwsy 
OT Aihert Wate Fat aTat away: 1 Ge A 
_ Fe Aare S SoA wT Prorat & | aaHTe Yates aT stare fea 
wl SA AT %, Aart 3 UM aT sa Bt am erm feraat saa 
wea Freres & | 
feat wiser errear eferotrre arerat 
TT TAN HA VAT Brass fadrat 1 eee 
sae Te A fen sik acen a am am efar mea ¥ sa at 
HT BAM sre Stet F (Gea H Tat tens & Asi H fae) seen a 
Ad SHAS VATA UT Baa ST Mat FTA HT WH BI AWM FE aren 
<i 
Tarerar sats What ahrattaa4r 
fare Ue Teesel ASME: A MPA: 1 wo | 
Fe Sa a Te fer ST Gen (MEK Fe a af strata, fae) 


apn at fren S am Ba Se a ge ef eit Bee aft (3a) 
SY MT SAT A AMT HT | 


fa aera Tay weer OF aft WPrATT, 
fren aniq ag gre erat wef ¢ qdaqs oe! 
fren Bam A Ww vig (FereigG) Vt 81 fasn of a vig of 
Far a age frat & en eet & 1 ea greg SB ved Ht TE 
Br sit Hof frarera ¥ | . 
i fears - ate oren orenfien amet afsrar 
great aq af Wyant fearanta Teas | eI 
Bra a wag feared a fafa -ge ora at fret (3x3¢.) 2 
TPN BT Brat Hof B wry AA a greg Set 8) fea oF a grt wt 
at wer wx Tee at yer frprea B | 
we a fa stare: eaerasafantad: t eft 
fe araaof afore: qat: (22) Weds WAH: 1 03 1 
we (at ye) (Fer) vig Sra BI Sig a Gren A pn at ST 
Sam Sy a Bera get Hot S PT HT QS a AA AK Hat aa (Fe 


faosatftaer: BW 
efa) a Be erate 
car feat eit gq stare Sarat waa 
CATA ANHART RA TET Tat AATAa: 1 9X | 
sa ofa at fast SN Ht EST FONT A OE SaaS (3ST) 
erat & 1 Seen 8 TSHHST FEA Wl Aa TewaST Url 1 Tas Bq 
aara @ | 
4 ATA Sa Weel aaa: 
Ta (8) F Fa faarssa Sy: WTS, UBM HITeeA: 1 94 | 
aA argeit Fg Bard Ss ae ert 3 1 os aS A 
Wl ae Ma faaret aa state F meq feast ert 
wesde fasreisa sacar Wafaert 
TAT TAHA ST TT AMARA |G | 
Ad SHAS Yo B Ha Si a stem fafa z | 
aren (fren + Ue) & as 
area wt weareaaT TPtATTa: 1 wo | 
SE se (Sa) aT tT sera We at YS rare 1 We 
al fist stk seen & am a ane 8 an at aren S aM 2a ZF | 
het AAT EIT | 
ater feasnite aq frerattserd 
WIT KAT UAT FATA ATA (4¥oo) Fads Ta: 1 9s 1 
Adsona Sr isa & sift SF We Tea fis seat By (HAM) 
ar arg Frere | gaat fast arg (Gxoo Ho) A BISA UW AT Bq 
erm | 
Ua T aaa FAS TAHT (4voo) Ale UTfTsT: | 
Wer aehrat: VaTa HAST fasraraat 1 wz | 
Aa SITY Goo ary F aif SA W TTA Yoo ary HeTHT Sg Ht 
eas arent | Sat fsa sea 8 aa Tews |r | 
eraaes arares wre, far & varea: 
TATERTATE WPA: YAATAHTAHT (Rego) FAT: | co | 
Aa stq aA say atenta (Tas fer) & arg S AM St aH sq 
(2Xg00) S aT BY a Gey Tay sa F | 


RRR fread city 
Brash CA Ba Wd: WAAVSe WHT: 
Aaa Tat CATT yforar aN PHT 1 28 1 
saan wag 8 are ta wr aea-sa arigdts som aan 
ara Ssa wig a are te Fret wt fate sar ¥1 Fe Hoh Ga 
Tl CAST A OT aT- 
qe SUS Teer Hae TIST FT 
We: Wag WeeraT YaST War: BRS: 1 II 
ge orn wef (H sige FH cag) S aM SA A HPA SM MTT 2 
se (fren a on a waa ST STS aT ear) Geet wT sifa 
tae aa ys frat | ad at faa dia ute 4 aaa ta @ | 


Fae SNA We ATA URE ea Prarea % | (staat at faadta dee 
area & fact Ep) state ) | 


fraatar (awae) F (22) Whore wataravareat 
WAAVSeT WH: CA ASAT: TATAA AA 1 63 1 
fre (g¥3¢) STAYS AM we BAG H Bra Hef B uM a4 
afer wag Stet SF 1 Tate Br SIT LTT HY START SA ST HI- 
TRATUHAST (2390) WH: Het TANfaeraT 
Wet: Hex TALS Wa: WT aca SHE I cx | 
wiht St ST (300) A aM By a wa aA Aa Hl FAST Stet 
S| TTS BR FH wee Bpe cia franca e 
Bra wit ueit Frecra ye WTS: BA Geet 
at Braga T ued ada Tq Waa | 
Het de Tea afavafa wae farerat aed | 
TA: BTA Tel LAT ST TaAGt Twos AMA: 1 cy I 
wet arara? & arpa GARI A Vig HI STANT TH FA VT 
A afa en 8 ae Ga wae ae ae aT H StH Tes | VG STAT 
fares & at A Nees F sat ert | sar ats wrat F aaa SAT 
> fog ae sik aera & am or avis feat Sra FI 
wey cary Ter gat arent ffir wear TY{- 
Th Wega Weer & Af wet wats WHAT, 
qafara wate wege ere sire wetter 
BE GATT Te Her aT Uet: Waist Tater: | ce | 
us feat ara aat cer feat aret & ae sa & fare areargat 


faoearlernn: 2s 


am (are 8 fea ara @) @ sia seq 4 1a sik ey (USA) FATT A 
AA aM (%o HM) Frere @&t TAH spain a Geert at 1 aaa 
za aM & Prat Zeary BN ye Set ante Pearl | was arferH 
aaa Ufa wet aa uel freee | a eri (fa atk ees aim 4 fea 
aaa) & are at ufsrat et sea get Tee (fa at Siva aA) A sited 
€ | 

Wears geasa freafear witra: wea 

Brg Yat Ta-yeaa: Ger at Frtat: 

Heat HET TANT STA TUAT HTTa PTA 

Fanisa Afa: fears cheat areer reir: 1 co 1 

area a va a fears vera & 1 Be Get Ua wl it Set anfe 

eri 1 arma 8 tfa wr fears Set a Galea @ wa at ge et 
famed & 1 sa ve Feq at ire sel, eet wt Ufa at Gel sik Shi 
& ara at at ufsrat et saa aet onfe aigax saa ctfa a fear 
yer @ att feat wa araet @ | ae argqa ern | 


area safe at fate efeat qaisa ahgeera, 
area feracrargam Sard SH, FH, (2) Ween Apert: 
a urea cera frnfear ararercrar =e 
aal qm wera: wafer: eqahr arr faa: 1 22 1 
fea. ik wa aaa @ am fared wt fafa wet aT Gat z | 
ST 22 sist sai & fu sett area Ga a Ua F aaa 2a Hr 
sa aaa ola A Bpe (Sha) BWI 8 | ae Hel Bra FI Ae aA 
a waa sifast (war a ae Se aa) sera Wess Sit ae arta 
a alee WA ET | 
Waa WaT THAR A: VATA: ERE: 
ATT FT WATT Aherag TANASE TIT | 
fart (22) Srnasaest WaT (89) AT 
TEN ATHAT: (Ro) WAAFH (2%) 
FINS CHATS F ATPT (Ro) WI 2s 
fire aaa A tfa & tea wm fears fraren arn & 1 sa fear & 
UTA FE UTS (AUST Hl) HY AAA STEHT Ae (aa) FH erat F 1 
Sa TAG (FEATS WAT) MT (SLA SA) HY TAA TPR SRT CA 
Bret & 
HAT (2Y%) A SGI HC Tl AAA ASI Fa a sat & 1 Ta aaa 


7 an faera ade 


fea ot an fram gene (Fee dtaat & ae fear ST wT 
(22) AaM-AG_ ew We, (23) ThE-AG-2eo Vat (Rv) Wah 

qa- Wo Wa 

WHT ATS (24) Sfot Fe (2x) wR PearT, 

TENTS afefeay (2e) Aarixferaat (gow)sT 

PHeT: WEF (YX) TaPATT: 1 (xe) 

MPa (%) TATATAAT (2219) 

TITY (2) STS Featt (24g) sfrsy (3) 

FaeT TX TAT (Ro) TATHAT (R99) 

Fa (2) FerareiPay (2) 1 So | 


aK Ue- FAGA Worx Wet (29) Yad we we Ter (2) SRA Hh 
(xé19) Wet (2) Aofl-wa AUR Vet (3) Hira fae go Va (¥) 
Ufeon-Fa!e (gw) Get (4) ANfeI-HT 2 TA 
OX (8) Sem: Hfcantor (ue) afefAy (9) * (2) 
afertiserre, Wt (2) Aer (ev) FF (9) 
Aalforgqaa: (cw) fsa (yo) Tat: (32%) Blea: AAT 
(22) ARK TATAY (gQo)STTAL (2) WANE TAT 
(2eu) BH at Ter (23) BVa Fada 
(GI) PH Horry (eg) Taw (gv) 1 Bvt 
(&) aTai-wat (ue) Te (9) Gaeg-Ten 2% Va (¢<) FI-TeMl wvv 
Wet (8) SReNMT-FeT (vex) Gear (to) AS FaH-3x TT (28) 
qathreart-gqfae eo Vet (22) SHUT WI Faw Wy Tet (83) 
SMA-Aq (G2) Fam-aq Vet (ex) Yee Va 
Tare (24) Tae Cae (22) Fa: HTT (2g) Asetfeaer 
(x42) AX (go) SPT Set ( WE) AE (ge) Federals 
(Rio) er (AR) Ae: SATA Mfr (ag) Wet (Ro) SUSATA, 
Maaat (co ) Ava (Re) SraTe-<at (242) AAA 
MATT Tet TaviaAT AAA | 82 I 
(Ry) CATA RITA (RG FT MTAT-THL 48 TET (Ro) STITT 
AHL REG US, (RC) PITH Kio WET (NR) WeI-HA ( 23k) TET (Ro) 
qatarg (Att co WA (2%) TUASIS-AMA Co TST (22) TAAMS— AT WR 
Wet 4 Aaa & seq are H se a aya faaren VI aaa z | 


aterara ferdrit ae seg operas aeHT: 
warn qrate aot wert arr frat qf fH: 


fararearferantz: BAG 


aq wean faster afd fetes areas 
a area afed adister fe waraq wise ary Tara 1 33 | 
aaa 4 fears feats 4 va fausnfaer 4 aga wer a 
qa, Hie, Hof sr srs var a Teatsit ar aoa ferent & de weataz 
BR sas West a frre fea s 1 se wa ana area Aled faara 
feat F wea & oreo 8 va wa F fae aa a GA: Tet feral et 
! 
frareraareatts ya wreat ay fasret eer 
qerateahad afee freaq acai frat 
ade afe dye aft Werad Tard 
Tar Aaa fe qe wa fH aay fret: 1 ev 
ary weit at gear 8 fart farrat ox Fa waa fara 1 sik fer 
yeratt (oe feafa) a Aa aredt atta @ Sen &, va wER & ats 
favat wt va we F fas aat wt net e 1 gaa A ea ae afore aT 
ae A OA A we svat 8 asa HT awa @, sie Afora apfe Fras 
al saute (waren) afsa vet eri ara: saafa anfe feat at wT 
HAA ASAT AA srasasg adi WAM | 


MATES HATS ATH (eeive) Wars: Ara 

Saag, ATE Tas B: (YRC) WA FF (Roo) Pea Tarawa: 

fed aaah: tate frat cafe ebsra- 

weleren ret frarera vet gate welt A 1 ey I 

SAL Haaey (sive) staha fagaq Var S (we Y2 ABA gM 

aT aed Beg WaT AB (Roo) As ys Sea K fea Ateraa wda 
(QQ) 4 ase Ay ak eres are Tet St & ae wlet wea VT at 
Sete Aa aay got HT 


YHA TAA JNA Fe WIT 
att ax Mat Ha Tires ser fs 
frara edo surfed ara ary 
frostary afer: wire: Ware: 1 8e I 
5H Wea Setar & fereara wage H Ses ot SRI ERT TOT 
aa e344 aan & fou am areal & fora faara cdr 4 dis wet 
% afar & faa ated artat were Gare gaz | 


* 
\ 
\ 


tn ee 


ASA: WHIT: 
Gs Ten soy 


erat: wifefrer: george eter ae: 
arval are ale et Sie aera He I 
Wr ais werancafa ae cieer faeries 
fazararag fae fara weet feared Tre eI 
Tey & waa aM, 70 aa sik crife @ sa Wa Far #1 Ya 
afea datas, a dhrftrr, dear ae er anit ar aa 3 1 WeTr 
at Yad & ary eit wAepa, ea B, ae faferat uz fagara wea 
@ | ota: Fam Hera H Gre sta A WET (ax siz ya) an avila Ha 
€i 
| Tara arfad ferara forse 
fasar (23) Siar Afeder WeaMtaiser 
were fast ferharitracrirarer 
fan wesirre (23) car ate Gftiryt 1 21 
afta Fax UE a aK eg HM a aK TE TT aS 
Sq Sl SA HL | Fa VS (SRN) HT AST 83 VHA SM WE VET 
at wena tedt 81 seta gerard ax wT UE a ag B 83 si G 
Hy Sa BA UT St WATS Vl WHAT F | 


as wergfa (x2) Aart Wart sa 
Tet adistae aye feritaara Wired 
. Tera, Tae Woe (3) Fatt yer 
axt-at wife qarat few WT 3 
eet Wat Std (STaTaReT & ort) A ax sik eeRTT wT ATA 
Rl GSA S Ue (UE A Hd) HBA ve si S HH SA WwW YF DET 
al Ware tect B | 
geek ex Gna Pere a Se eer lee we wR 
Ufa4 Ad AST Hl V3 Sard Hel FeTA UW Fa Wepa euia are F 
Gt: Vpe VX HI MMT HU F | 


tented fate apd aresttar 

War sea a aa fear a WaT 

fea, ary te SyT: HAT: BPeat 

ar Qarfad (ax) Ft We Wa: STI v1 


ax TEN aha gre 


wa: eet are er fats (eer) am feared @ | Saet aa 
al Yeo WW FA VPS VE (cata Het & ) FH Visa wa aE sik 
aa we femnsit 4 aA, a fet feen 4 Sw Bera @ 1 eee UAT 
at ay FS SA a Es Vet ST aaa Ted F | 
aeraria arerta yftartracat 
arateh (2130) Sita aaety Fe weet 
a Fava zw qoseisqad 
Weare farara wiereiey ante (9) discT 1 4 1 
(fa Tem aera:) ae eat are ate (anda ga H ata) TAK 
(2° 30°) sit @ wa St at yt wen A wen 21 wea orga wha aT 
am 2 | wa TH S TAH TW (TE A Hq) H Se SH ATT w Bit 
a wa a wR Gs Wen St aaa zs) 
qu fag wfife arnt ara are: 
a wae arate fen aeat Were 
Warnes faye wat Gat: 1 & I 
ar fast & firs fafa @ va we F ape sera & fae war 
veer, tia ate ax or ote an simnfe adie, qt, az sik BT 
al ORAM, Gx aT ure ufearsy, feafa, fase snfe area, areda ape 
wean, epe afa, foracrs sik ufvera snfe a1 aroha gat S| te Soa 
SM & weer sa fas cm wera a aaa | 


Tat Wat caratats werarerrey 

fae fast aaa ard fearecreary 

=pstrasa: wae at 

qarrat fae faret wat 1 0 | 

sara otk cori aa Praret at Sa aT aH ok Ufa Bp] HIM 

(wt & aro wea A haa we wa deeK eM) aa us a 
TAS aT sat (ataraA A) ae gore aaa A ge afer A e UPS Sirsaz 
SAR Praprer | arraz TPS sist anfe BY a (eGo fawen) TaTH TAH 
ax st ad at aft ar ae (Ho MH) @ am Sh) wat Get (farset) 
site erm 1 


_ freer area faq: aa oeaare: . 
wicaiivarh seasa fad Yar: | 


aa: wet ayaa fatadt at 
faodreaa saaa weft afais: 1c 1 
va we ante aaa a az as SOSA EM WH Vata aaa 8 aA 
aa & fe ae ea a safe SA we wean | wa vata (esi at 
wrist) waa Spe eT 1 Fa aaa A GA: we sik Ufa Ht Upe fen 
wren den fer sae sre vale tla VE Bpe SM | aA a ape 
aa wm aa as ak at at wen (ghia A gt Fe aie steer) 
aan et ara aa we vata farmer | eae are a wen & fay st 
Brest ST | ; 


qe crifa wet Tear 
wader fast wet wt BATT! 
ACTA FAM H TaT- 
sfearg Tea: weg fea MATa: 18 1 
we tt waa af at ona, Whrea aa sean wa det aa 
AT BU BIT WL aK STATA SA STAR Wet ar a a Ala wer 
at fan ar ssh | 
wWratye: wet wer Whrar faresr 
WE SITET AT TAT (wee) T YfeaTay, 
eateareg tf ater (182,000) faferat 
ASNT A: TART WATAAUTAT: | fo | 
Fa ATH FH SSA F FS GA He S PT at | yi F 
Was Fa PA wet HST HH fears are AT Oey) B ATT ET 
aararen F pr we A ta fara care Aisa S aT Sar faen safe 
fsa frarain | sa fare wa wt gan ta sit aa & fa sa 
a am et | 
austic & fte wa: ward afe- 
wt qufed wet faractaTary | 
eq rane watt GH, WAAAHTat 
qafeqay: wraciata we Yat i eet 
afsa cog anfe wa FT aa ud Se eA aR we area B serait 
ak BT BA Ww (ASHa, ZAR sik Nha dri wo SA aw) wd 
area ¥ ost) eae eae od are erm | aaudara sik ee aH 
udara ora Fo ga stk wat St nf Premret aee cay aa et TT 
ar tf att = Bp! BVT | 


age VEN ao RRB 


farcrit ATA (2,000) AaraPrarch ferarater 

AeIgET aaa avat afa: | 

“qaqa Trrirael We 

wart afifirmenfe S AHA Hee 1 22 I 

aad ae Fi  (Ferges) oT ae fea & ven A a fers a 

SATA (82,000) GTA Hel Se 1 Fa Shh stan wW A Ag sit wT 
at ora vet ot fran, vet at oR ae wen A yedt att orn 
anf at ufiera ya wae freeren 3 | 


faacag facwrafare faq (982) aT: wafedt 
fansite care: |t Ha Wah (vwx) Tra 

qa we fafée (xg00) Wa Ufagratagiy (x4) erat 
Tal SATA Tess TAN Ay AAT Berga: 1 v3 I 


Tor = = = wy 8 ao af ae. 
geatt Sara = = = gea6 anr 


Geall HT SAT ggoo BSA UA watfafeat A ot arate 
aa a caret a sree FH Hares AA Hea FI 
q ead tae af we ue: Shea antarg- 
Are fefaagot ah acoirye (G06, 29¥) Sra Wea: 
Sera: Be YSaT Perf UL AAT FHNTaT (xe 904) 
qerey gfe ASAT TAA: SBT AAATGT | AX I 
Teal Sse SS HH BT eA a (96,02, 2¢¥) GTA (GF Hh), 
TM yeast Be A aK HR ST Hey at (x2,904) GSM (EX HA) 
1 waa we eae aot irae a aaa 2 
TAAVSeA ATTA (92,000) WH ATA (RIR3) AT 
FoeaTe HT (RI) TAA atageer FrereaHy A: | L 
artadg (g) wearaftty (24) ter wavsa- 
STA VATAHAT (ao) Tafa Tol Sra HATA ATL 1 Wh | 


wat ar neg aig fe = 839° = aaiazie wen ante 
RW 
TSH eT ner sta fae = XS = aeigo maT 
Zu . 


os fora ot aon at RE y Bre HI fart Her At Framer (a1c4) 


Ro fara atop! 

Sm ax) eit fe ax eo waa saat fate ax ew a 

z | 

aH aie Wars ax : 

ferent waft depart var a 

afstar faqfora fatter (ecg) 1 tq 1 : 

(qa ar ae ar) A am wee one « Ufa A wer a fem a 

we alfena BSN i cat wh ste ¢ Ue A eA we Nay | WM Ha 
eet firsat HY Mt TOT (Ree) A Tet R- 


we So fase fererat 
AAT: (86,28, CMY) Wel HeTH: Be: 
wept ey aA: fera- 
Heads T Wer Ta FAT vo | 
29 8 fsa & oof F ary V7 | Har fernfe ce tke aK HT BS 
we oof erm 1 ga fata & afe ane onfe wet ar A af freee. 
wa Wt ae a Se TF el aT hee ad rT 
wz Hot ea Alaa afatea Sra feet gat TAT BRE: 
wea ated fara forftret ere aof foreat: ufteper: 1 x 1 
PaTAH Ue Ae HU al eq Shera Hof S AT He fas aM 
ar ae arrears BpS Hea er | Ae farsa He Sl AeA ATT 
SPN HW SHS GSA AB AM VA W |pe fara Het ert | 
frara fettt-a< afrata, gira waTeAT 
wat frase fargo fasta (ecg) freee: 
(2,26 2@,e%¥) BN Caveperen fernt gfaferra wa feta 1 ke 1 
(frart feat @ sq ga) site aot a ae aS Heh Fraret | 
fre & aT a sa sere Fe a fie & oT A aT 
Saas a es ot yt ar ae aot et | ae ya a aT 
ax at ott HT ATA & (Het Fy) | 


foe after fear ve: 

Wel Tas Fist Hepa, 

fara ta TE fared (e422) Wear 

AR: @ anigft (xco) Sterarhs 1 gf 1 Rt 


ge Went quay BBQ 


7 Tees Hof x Hey atsrt Hot 
7 faa 
aa frst (6422) ASH ao =e fers (veo) ASH B ( ATEHTaTs 
AIG, TA Wa H STEAK Aet ) 
Wen FE Hol Vat aay VPSaA AMT, 
wentfend at gard fare wraed Aa fe 1 2 1 
wea art aa So at ope oot ar aed Gen AA ee aeaTfe 
ay gifena @ ope act ar crest fear 2 1 Riff wera otk Up? WE 
ft uf ert wm wife sit HeepE wef ars eta I 
meq Bw fara: Pe: 
qaad wat aie aTigar: 1 
AEA (4/é-9Fo1gh) fag: TAVSeT 
Be faeqtate: warfrat 1 221 
Wey we alt ae frst Her Hl Saat ewe Garon SB WT Hr 
sreit Stra were fe S art ST a MATT Ue Se AK BE 
fare sent | 


fe at farat fear (3x3e) Wforat atrt kaha 
TAX: Vedat ay J at faqary 
al WAS Wires A VM Far (gto) Frareq 
WEA: (333) SAT: Tata Herat: Bf aAwrie SR 1 WI 
TIN AsrrerH fra cara wl Beat SSN at IE Ho aA 
a am ey we a, Se aT YT (geal wt wren) fas care aT HATH 
Spe A AVM | 
“ga a wore wpe fara care 
neq frees + aa aarHet 
Bo 
Aare 2 TAM 3 a we A Ted HK aM (Mla ST) AT GAA 
ait wel ore Hf TEI KH era ETT | 
Wet AM (alo) Tirta wert Woufae West 
mame are, epe fay Pate eeaties ag 
aT (9g) Eftat ope tia wha: wrfer seThars 
WATE VS WHA HT (2) TST RAATAT | RX 


ape 4B aot 


saat 


RRR fasra adr | 


eat var wae ae firs cara at Sar 
qe es Oa HT + Vala Ger 
oo 
ya ax a ere fara won & fore ww sik qa 2- 
aire wae cfr mfeA x 22 
RR 
che we aH Tf - 
Ry 
FOaTT (¢g00) FET: BPS Ft Hut 
TATA BATH TA (\90,x00) fare: 
ween frrara tet gat 
frara: gfreat warar: 1 1 


edt TeaaR SA, ST TANG can Gat eu oard 


we ta fracanraam = 


meas fea area = 


(yealt Fx B) ~ Spi sara — yeare 
frend fertrrit-qeara eH cfr 
fra fre, woted reat goby 
q frgfa cet wet eT say 


euiacgia fart 1 we 1 sha 
wx Tea (Hen) F yeaa 
(xfa cara - yours) a-Roura 
~ BS” a eae 
warfee: wirad, water: fH 
STAT: (9) aT Te TT: 
Msekz (we) PerTAT (¢x4) 
gard wegitd: TIAA: WATT Wo | 
asa a we yer ora aw ot (Sx He A) wees AA 
Preven Sra 8 1 (atfas aK eT AF SS Te wa Fa THT 
Be) 
q Were (GR Heat A) He 
sae a ee is | tf ere efe wife x we 
8 Wey 
q om fag ax et faut yet ata Went aa: ETI 
TraTer TMT Tha Hats TET YC ATT Tha WaPeA: 1 Re 
ged orn A aa ar fora sry We wR TET WaT afar aT 
gi ear & aren gs ven Be 8 ws, SR AT gM (Geat wT 


ax En ania 233 


Orn) Hl SAUNA H Faw]! ter & aa SF VEST SA H ST WE (ARIMA 
al ATA) STE SI are eA al Har vies B 
faartta-feres aren awnfe YetresTearrehea TAHT 
aah: Hae Wer faa aeafeat Ae FWT TAT) VW | 
forrest 4 dt aren 4 foren @ fe afe um et Ue a ura 
Stat at weet A fen Fe (at ge, asi ofr A), ara Fe (a HT 
afer WA & fore) ae ora Fe (yet a GUS VEN) wa erat z ? 
aid UE WS SRI Wet AMA areal acl aaa el AA eT ATT ae 
= 1 aga: 3 We ah ae, dient an qa & fare Fi 
WE: PATAVSAT: wets wets westeadet farary, 
THAT: WAT Were Tatar art Fass Aad Set 1 30 1 
Ue SIH (SN) Fa & Fe yea SIT Besa FB WAN Bl VA 
at Urea wen S| fer wx A vas ae Gl a daa 8 | ga ve Wa 
ae & foe St a F sa Wen ae fe 2 ee eR HOE wes 
farredt Tet 81 (Seer TATA) 


waa weft aq ars ge 

weg fare fe, Ta Tit ITT 

Ad A WS: A aT fares TTT | 32 1 

aa & wre yeat at orn ai @ faut fen F edt @ 1 ae at 

wifaga 4 yd feen 9 gad #1 gftara Yaa ax tt a @ frat 
foam 4 (& tft srat W) ela, aa Taal Tha orn wl fa a aifw 
SA & SL GE Br A vaM aH ZA UN HR TIM @ | STAT A Was 
ST OL SAT Ht FRC (WHT) HT ANG Sta S| LA HIRO VR VET 
Brat & 1 


qq wet ate etary teary tia oreata wdiear - 
aeae Teetfadiaes ys ashe yore Ad AecaTq | 32! 
STAT & aaa we vest @ ae sik Ga Us et fern 8 (aH UH 
4) ea @ twa wan oe fen A aed ee a aT eT MT eT 
Tift afi er & aro fet qa far @ st (ge fern 4) fava 
STM 21 Oe Stet VET A SH aT ci Sa A a Ag 
ga at daa aaa vars da aaa at et Baas 


33x fasra ado 
pare aay wer Cat weet areal aa eh ara: 
aa feterea wert Ue: Yar: Spe wt welta sre: 1 33 1 
tre sife art wet & oad A fra ver agqdwa set a verm 
wa & Sel vaER UE & fois wa Ht SA a Bera 8 1 fetes 
waar 4 fara ver dean feat ara 8 1 sel war Ug wT feta wet 
oft Frater wire & da Wewr Bar z 


WH Weal ax creat tarerhs (32) aa aafsara 

ardtea ve fara wet CAT Hales VS MW TU! ax | 

ape wala afer ax fare BL TAA WE EHS wa Hea FB 
wo Ht ase Praca & 1 ae faa SR wT BF 1 gat TAH Y3zo 
Wn Sea S 1 wel Bl sey He Tar arg Feared F 1 Ta BMG a 
a am By wax HI Henle GE eR Free 3B | 


fraser ayeH ard ary fade wa cfr: eae 
fata wanton at fact ax Ue few ae Wa Aa: 1 341 
a #4 we Fy one & Of A et HR aH eR Te fern F at 
&, wa at we dente ¢ uf 4 of a a eR cfem fen A a 
& 1 wen uftera & aay sa ee SY tara B see are feat ara 2 | 
are fort wien TaTet Yared We Wets Wen: 
fared arora Vper TAT Ad AERA: HIT Wa: SPScay 1 3e | 
(2x st ara fafa) ara wet & aed, Me Hifena wwe aK 
See Ua Ht Nfs aM a PN Ha S| wa Ht fen am By 
eco ae ean a re 
SU FT ae ape we nfs eh | 
wea foros qarfea get (2x) 
Mos Mente AeA AT 
ate Te Tht ae Pea 
Tftetca AAT (2%) AT FEAT | 30 1 
WE Ss Ula Fert Ta YS FeHreht | Ta Asie S we safe 
Preven St Waa & | Faw faw go sit He Ga WE a sn rare 
RS W SH (FAM) A VAF BIS FH WM, WK, Hfena qara 
anfe Frere uftfere & fadta aus 4 fear va 2 | 
sa faa qsist a ee aife Frarern giant way % 1 ae aa 
BW HAT sat wT FTA Ban zB 


ax ven aviary BBY 


war farares qaiee foray zat (2g) ar erat freee (gg) feberer: 

wel Wt: Ud fais ws: arerferat af wears: 1 3c 1 

AAA PR A WA Herat TAH YT BH He BATA | SHH Test 
92h HSHE 42S aT SH | Har BR NT Fa ER WR fod SR aT 
a4 St TH YAM ST a Frere ST Teal B1 YSTe STE BA a 
sa fafa a ya ert | 


BA Blew A ATA Cert AA: WL WAT 
We: CTT Mista VpETat TA Al ATA: | 
Wee we yrs fee afaarsa vata T- 
Vorarara frat ea AHA UTAH STH: 1 3 1 
We (Ba) AK Mew (ores) fra a sear TAH one A we 
Hy St K UG Sat Fi MW Fa S Vea SA W De vel sr 2 
fara am aT set @ VR wey WS Be Bae We St ZI WE wT 
aM Wet (Sra) & afas sy ax yof ure ear S| wre B we wert 
WR ST aM 8, SAAT BHT BT Ura Ba 1 
wiaare: qofefes ta: cere fratets =a 
wea: wire fretted fe weet wre frart amt: 
wettest ta feta eft wrearearvst 
wed Srp Vat wrat farethry 1 vo 
we Ten at eet wa: ye fee A der Mal wa: vias fee A 
aa @ ea fray S ort Het 8 Stet Gage wa: vies fen FH 
wrt dat yd fee Fo aet aet mera at art & 1 ye Ufa we & 
Tee St Hel cfaroy Tae Ht it ora eet S 1 sta: yes ulsrsa & org 
Wa: Bex HT WANT EST BI 
fra waa ores fara ore far at dn wrt tao & 3a Fadia 
aa Hed S | Ore fears ures fers @ aret Framers & a HI Sahara 
waa wed 1 Pte a sation aH aT AAG Ad Se Hea Fo aE 
He a fan ora ot wea 2 
vata: aatata aq tia St arg a a HAT 
WSS WEST HEA WAT WEA Weds: 
sear a Ufort ferer aie: Tat TT THAR | Xt | 
ta sit =x at aft, ste ott Her aH AT OF Wait 
— Preecrn @ 1 set tag vata (tara ar yoy) wet & 1 ea ote 


3G ; fag au, 


Carre) A wea oe aE a ore gaan BHR ETT He 
arer ere et 

tre six ores fara ar wT sitsar sae suet H at a ape we 
a at @ vera & sik Fe a Ye frarea F 1 Tae go IPM HT 
gaa ws ak ea a fa & aa @ (am 2 B) 


Th Tea Asa: ATH ferersat AeA 
Tra wisat Art art cad, caveat faeries: | 
eet Server Qeaafeat zen ferratsar: 
wat: fafa agave faqaate FH WAT CHHATT! ¥?I 
ane Den feats wr ane aera (aret H+) Brat 8 1 carat a 
TPT HA UW WEN wt Gh Mrs ara zs | 
set GR ore sit wesw fra ar SA aX SAH sa & a aT 
se wa & ee at a sera Ft ora Be Hr Yet Frarer He Tay fo 
aan at zai az sik ad & ofa sez @ a7 2a So war fans 
ane ar eet anfe erat & | cael a A pT wr a HE STG aM | 
eared aret 4 feaerds cen sets are Sera ax are: eae sik 
fastest ar waa sat & | 


mem eaet Prefer a vate sitrerit aterat 

weer Ura Ger airs ate: yr: arfran: 

wafer saad fear Percent: erereg fret wa - 

I we we faarat: we aiterer: AE: AERA: 1 x} | 

eavaia are 4 feafa sre ae nef sea S ster ae saHert 

waa arm Fa al ae sates anfe aaa F une sik Yas aH 
Set Hr Sara ot Frepret HT PT: Sai Atal surfe aaa fraprern aries | 
Fa VaR TET ar fee AT sia | Een FT ep| eas enfe area 
Ty KW SAA AR IR HT We aX GE AAT frHren aT zs | 


serra fersrs tet (92) ford wer weNtay, 
qatar Teratraatast Taq Sear Wey 
are, area fagd ad formar wdvae: aq ep] 
qenrers wre a ud went cade Sa i wet 
a OK ear wt Tata Tet oS Ue fafa, ara H sar 1 was 
ware Ht UX Praret HC TAH sn a VT sik via at wha WH sia @ 
ant % 1 cfsey eug anfe mH ened He MK A Vera & ale ag UT 
Bi, srtreat SSe SE eae oe wae eT | ea oe ares @ fee a, Gt 


as Ten aol RR 


oe Ses Soe ee cna ene 
fapal wl aitax 


sratq qe frerfe wef wea: Weiter Ba: Epe: 
I ary era ama feats cat ears Wafaege 
Dal SH, WAM AAfea aa: MMs: WHT 
Uae a Hatters aia AT TH WAT Tara! vy | 
SaH ster wea F sik ot qe fare fF 1 Ta Yo aw aaa 
SIctet WS FI W Vpe We Se FI Fas ves Sl we feafa sa 
freed @ 1 va 3K 8 FT Ore anfe a aaa sim & ae oH fos BT 
@ 1 TIM S wast snfe aaa us et ax F ape Ba et aa 
Fora Het Sr wis ae ga fae orn F 1 (Vea Bt Jorn ear A 1) 
AI Srage Wet ware wrare srercrys wast | 
yaaa metre aret feacrda: dees adisafere: 1 we 1 
aa FE Hea Ua aa ora HT 2a ax wa fravet at fafa 
wel ait & 1 neq Te a a aw UA SA a Saal eae feafa ad 
a wera & 
avstie=ane Testa et Veet atenlfewenfaet: |: 
rine wife Hera weg fered Fre wpe cea: | wo | 
By cos snfe BH Wesel Ve (Ys Wen H aE Bret HT er afta 
8) SM at Go AMS | aE TR VET H Se HT eh | WF 
ren A gant ya: wey feafa sé B FON sx Serer Be Sa 
el ape wife Her ord Bi - 
feacrdave ff: oper: |: dente fasta war qats® 
a: site ater veoa Hulergy area Tet Prey ve 
Te aaa & I & ay at HoT aaa | aife tke ysrHe & aT 
a AM at Tat at qa Frere | ae eof erm i Ta fara a aT 
sre A sey we Te aA Fram | 
amt afer Hewes are feacrda: ete uel fereitear 
WH war Vpe Yar THaT ed: syed: Walfe: | ve i 
Req Ten & are wat feafa ak 4 ale ge ara foray Sra a ar 
fafa sé @ va ye are St Bet at Ufa sik ase & Yeh nfs sa 
BT BR Go @ aM VA aM wife ETT | 


aR farrier att 


Tephaee: WM Va aE: TBI Ta: Sewer: WaT | 

Dreretara: SferarerH: CATT Waar APH Tats FAG: 1 Go | 

Bei ft ee STS HI SVR IR YS Ve Ht ee Fare BAM | Ta 
wfa at wae atizacn frre or aad 8 | ca get ate an art sitsax 
Wet at esa AM ans S He WW Hl AA SPM | ara AT 
Sa H We Wa Hl Sas sat a ern s awa Ft 

SE urea a ge wre Freer 


Wea: PAPA Fataraty Paver WaeT warers: 
we ata: Tes VpPSY ant Pram yer Hera Hie: 4g 
zwaet sit 2eq are & ara ora SA KM Saat Maleres fara arg 
& Berat VS SIA HR HT SHR Sef wa eT 1 xa feafs Ga # at 
ee eee 
aa uw atfearen eit | 


gine wear Weare ferred wanfgat arfe ferat: | 
neq feared Eat: Upet: | THAT Ea: Hs HANA: 1 42! 
aa wen 4 ga wife Her wt creat Wepa ferns BM Hr ey 
fraerd & am 23 ow eae aifeser eri | Hien Br eo A AT Hz 
tfa sik ER - 
qa wa ase: fered we dre area. 
faqea art craters ferat ardiftard urea waHecar: | 43 I 
- Tf sat @ aM AA a wa evs safe em | ea Ha Ht Ua 
arfors fered @ FAA HR aE was & ae ge afew aa BM | 
Ara A ARTE UIT HE HT Vee FH AE ATS H Baer HI Tat 
SUSie Ha Hl Ware FT Tera W areHl Srey sre | 


Wrawd warcafere sret ciame carfetes utters 
fered & readied aaiat aaa THAT Gy I 
wae sit Hla & feafa ond mt Ga Der F yeq feats a wet 
ara & | Filfe cae fase ver & cea dear fea sara & | Sta: 
weit ere HET EKG fea sre I Coen Fare are ag Pea HCI A 
areda PAA swam) | 
aaerasaay waite qd wareret wee wt Ta | 
aa we wrest farier erat few: ERT: Thre: BUTT: 1 4G | 


ara § ataat Gert Te Harter (Ta WaT VER HT) BH HTT es sik 


ae TSN asa RBS 


qa ven Hae (dete) Hor F a A Hea C1 Ft CH warat & 
arm sere & uf cir wore (fates & way sare Wend 
WR Ft SRT a am) FH Tet & eae, Fea she area at few aw 
at ert B | 
Uti WEE Acs WA: Tawife 
feat Bret (esto) ASAT: 1 
Marist AM (yoo) feaeat ea: 
we HAAG CKt CARTAN 1 4G 1 
wz TEN Fara dep SH otk Ge Wen F sraq despa Gi aT 
alfa He al acs aria (evgo) A AT He AA UP St He (4xoo) 
@ am 2a wa wal wet set ae lt B 1 fre fem (od at of 
ware) Fae Dent eo 21 sat fen A ae ac Bar? | 
feat carat: cafarddad wares ate (0) wt feards 
fra: wet affrte aries ava: ae: ofere feardal: buy 1 
(qa wen 4 ua sk w= TA EM & Set Saal VK ana ert 
wel eT Se ae Frere ST aera F 1) 
ax men Hae fears Baa oie GS em Hal fers a aa 
fret Bl SAH Ge TATA | TAH! Qo V WOM HT aay away feard 
wa @ am 2a x sine wa arm 8 | ae We Ufes fears & aa 
ye ar ofa fee Had erm | 


Fratat aM ea ANT ATfsaT TaATT (Ro) ATAT: GAT BTA 

We Wee aet Tet Wa aT Garahrdte cerry ye | 

Sa Ad H sar ee & Aas @ WON. HZ eo @ aM Aa BM Ga 
arm ae yaaa 4 sez otk fas aa 8 cfarr seat aera eT 


wa: wearers: warsradd fadrg fatirareat: 
ware va foroeairerch aeqest uit Fas 1 4g t 
aa ak aaa ae ee ue fern 4 eA w am ak fi fern 
FF WW aR fet ae 8 1 SS SET A ae HT ok qt wer 
al aa or sienfe ferret eT | ae Se aes aT | eat! Ate, anfe 
fara feen @ fea ver erm i gaa aE eM | gaat ster anfe 
AM afters A Her WaT F | 
Wife af fet fagear ware wet ferret wary 
fara fearaatie weqet fraraareacoter at gq gaa: 1 Go 1 


R¥o faarat <duy 


ae ar fer afters Her oT Gat 8 | RH Sea H Ta srg 
we wr aA as fer Se & 1 at & feara 4 wa sik aap) ar 
way sein visa & 1 Ufa sik ax a art srt wife ® 


T Yet Wert war gar fraearen: aTPH (30) Yar Fa 

TSAR CHET AITTS WT (4G) Waa Teor seg SAT 1 gt 

fa ar ara ae aa Aw sist 3a feat & searg a 7PM 
XT 20 SG WMT SN 1 SH al Seareg snan saa va is a as Bt 
ua & dre at ufsrit & seaqrq He7 | ahrec 4B 4g arg Sisax 
eo B AMT eat Vea Tqwray | 


fearferera aq faqes qeqe sica arfeat war 
faara yer ayes Bien TAME YH Tal ATAeT | GZ I 
ales & eat steer & ae ST HT Sea SPM | VR AA Hie 
& fou sme fea gales & aaa tia sik az ST AIT a SI UTA 
va ae & Uf ae art we dhe at yeerg wT are HTT 


Terra Paar VA War Brass AT wea: 
PACA ET AAA VEMT: (4G) Aoreyy ae Ft: Vpe: TA 1&3 
‘fa atk wx Ue F tet oR Ufa HT Aa arg TTT BK HT Tw ay 
SH em Gales & Fat Baa & ae VT Br aed VT | Fa AAA a 
4G AY Wat Ba Fe S VE Way eM | 
(ASAI BIR Fed SA SA HW seq ok aad & ate H Ta 
wat or fears eM 1) 


ware fare ves watTerem: yea: warghy: 

Gara: BITS aansH, MHA WAY CH FRI ev | 

Seq H AAA IAA Hla Hl) VMK HAT WA AS F GAA AeA BIT 
BY RAHAT BH Te B PT HC eV A aT Sh | Ga (ETH) FT 
char we SA A Tea He FSSA, TAC WK BA UK eva | HEATH 
4 We GA IR WM BM K WMS, chao we SA HR Bera | Fa WHT 
seq ai seq ar eee BA BIT I 

frame: qermfa Prergar wearforay THAT (38) ATP STAT 

wa: Ue: Vata Prentifs faq ate ferars Waar t ey 

TAA TAN Hl SE UA Hea HY Gr Aft He Hl wz A AT 


zat Terese Ga at fa & afar 8 she 2a a as a fea a 
em 


ae TEM aera ; . BWR 
wat TAM Ha AWE (2330) TATA | 
aalfed qa Hers eft Wer 
BT BIg feet Freeh Fre eg 
sat BH Wa A clay sat wl AH staal Vin aa (Jaq qe aT 
wid ga % waa cferoh fas aH aa Bs ) Ve (2Q™ go’) ferry wT 
an Tet at (era ga fared we yaa 8) ga Hers Sia 2 1 ae wh 
aa a oa fern Fos Sze 
we crea fen fatafedt wafea, wate 
ward: Hert ATS Pea: Hers: | 
qared sl eaay aS wa fare 
wy aha waea Wieasfacrat: 1 ee I 
wita ga & seek (efah) fen 4 us ax sit cfart ga a saz 
Qa FAW SAT (22° 30”) A TRF, HHT HEM 1 wa Hey 
Gra ga at et eK Se 1 frase oro ve Sia Ga A Tax a char 
al an feana & | ax fara elt aet at stan Aa ahs a ara z 
qet Fare Her Yat TTA Gas faraaqeq- 
war erommraia frat yeaa desards ferae, er: 1 
MM (3e0) BIE AE Aa: wa feat wrt arTET 
Wet dafened aq wafradt dsr arerarey it &e 1 
ws frst x a ga a la sik Hes tia Ta WK ga sik Haq 
al gitat a sta (arta) a 3€0 HN at wafers at aff a 
BT AYU STA AAT STAT S| TH TM 3a A TEA MH ae Ta att 
afar srayt FH eX ax afer aera Stat @ | 


wate ate tar ait wt aad wry Tat HAT: 
wet saat aaa fate syst wifedteat: 
Tears sat Teatta 7 fra afseraha ae 
anes Stare fort ware arest |e fre 1 ast 
aa ae at aed wes aaa A He (aca sik situfa) 2 aa 
St SPASM A aa sT (Wal WA SR weHY FA aa HAST a frat 
@ 1 saat ae at of aed SEA BI St fafa & UH wea DE aT 
alfesn @ a gad we wt cfs A UR Sisal Sas YS St Tas ST 
@ 1 aeg 20 fafa & fret gar st ST at seca aeT 2 Ff ealfee aS 
aa sik wif ga ara & srqan afa edt &1 sta: we & afe sist 


RVR fararat ati; 


ai Ad Sik BRT HAS BAT Bit stat WaT AGATA | 


yes 
Tes: ufaferisa fess frat 1 wo | 
Ufcera foray 8 tet Hl WaT (SSA GAM) AK TaN GH FT 
(26 Stet SaTaTS HT) TAT HA Ga UAL H feen ara fafa a at fag 
aa St cae atk ofan) wf fagait @ ee sige orang a1 WEN ae 
ee at aa tad € 1 sa St oti & ofa feen sik wor ar fag 22 
él 
wey Tt: ae Tat fre ate tat 
We, Weald, Afesen, fof WHAT 
frsarear aan ferrt Weel aes 
Rardker Srey aT BSATT 1 zt 
ent gai & ax a dear gat w (ge us) tan cies to 
fare Se O Ga 1a ea H oer fos G OM TU UH BTS HI I HK 
Sr es Pres 2 ee es 
¥ 


arered chart wheat wa Wate 
qt fag wife aay I 
Were WAT TATA (zeIR0) Pratt 
Wat ary et eT fares t 02 I 
ae fare ofa Hares F ret we afar farg S egizo sie CaTATS 
a uf ga 4 an yd aoe 8 wa a ot qa & aet TK fg a 
Ralko SAT AT aT Way gd A Aiea | 
ae, ae afte feferadtar forget sir urd fererarqinrafa-qaray, 
area aala atifad sara-gs feaaT wa weuias zara: | 931 
37 Shit arat & get sie afarr wore 8 ahaa ar SE ET | 
wey, feat eftfera war (22) 
Ware afteary wie fragz 
TeSrgMT WRAT WHT TA: 1 ww | 
art art & frat & st aha ge art & 1 Tae afer a oe 22 


ax Ten anf R¥B 


am at Ae ane ufsrat an fare SN 1 writes @ aS sz a TI 
# vat std afosa aE fos aaa Seam et soit wr frema eT 
um wal Ghaa S| 

arared fare uae & facentferdt 

frarmaae fga: aT: Pa, 

WML ad wx aAfe Th taser 

ware wt woes faqateiteay 1 04 1 

sit at frat areft Ver (aR cae) & awrar sara @ ert arett 

fags & ws 8 ga Gat | gaa ast say aT art we aera 
ean aim | a fag oe Se Get TA ga & Hx S ret caine 
Vat WU (ATRIAL FAT TE ) 


SAAR ATLPITAT (32%) Ares VWITsd gs: Te WaT | 
Tae Casta at ware aerisfir arfe Arar ie 
frat (faga Rat) & ae GSA FA (23° Ww" Statist - HH TAN) 
ert waa ga et ot & ofa afta are ater F et (faga fer 
al) fearg Ot | ae areca A cet ten Gira ww) @ st aaa & fas 
jaw feart edt & at: sa a sea aca 8 eT ot aifest at 
we Aet eI 
Terrien eforarata sree arrears frataa 
Tegarca: Samia art Sate alarg & lq TAT rol 
wd ofas qd at sn woken, ae a uftfe ae at gat & ara 
wh Tair Vari Wasa el ot: Ta tart H Ue B ofa (NEA TA 
a ao a wha ST a AM Sn 8 (Fe Sait Ga ESM) sta: HIRT ST 
wed afara Ver (Ga HK A) HY Gd B Frareft area Si ea WHT stars 
Sax afart Var (SMTA VEN) KW at att @ Frareft art B 


epee seer arar fart are WAT 

q Fea AEN AEN sede Tod Foy. 

We Aaa AAs TeparH fea, (go) HaTSAT 

aferrate fraten Tart wengd: 1 92 1 

(TK Ha HY) get at ora & art sie 4 He staasas (HA 

sree ate ora) er S | Tach SSA wR yp (Geet ST Brat) ST 
BATA to He Hew SIA F | lo HAMS YSN SHA HT (WET 
afaiee jara aaa ot dadt & (ga waa Ten ae fea & KW TST 
OWT HS A SYT) 


Wwe forara adut 


aq fam erat fag: garcertistt ererreratT 
adetarean feat aifra: qafferanr qrqhrarsy | we | 
get St SPT S OT AAT HT YZ AM SST HTT B Ba: PST 
Brn & fra arm @ | ata: Yorn fara F sara wr 3 aM (stata 
0/3 HAN) heart fast aA fr wren | VA Yeast S ex a fewer 
ea w dt sa Han F yeat st ora A sre er TI 


we: gated: wre SiefeHeTE Mt (Re) ca: 
fare ae adie aq VES Toad: CTEAA: WEE: 1 co 1 
q orn fora ar fora wat a wa & frwe TAH FEM B ai 
Wat & (Ro) AA HK age Fe sa: Wa aha We ST ye aN Br 
fara F Ferg a sier stat & (Hea AMA A) 


fares Teg WET (34) et frra (93) fared 
—: ge wauiike aianaral fra qrq | 
TH we waefe Tat fas wiht 
wyege ye wate yar ta ahaa ck | 
ae: WH fart Her wT ay A PM Hr v3 VD am ea F 1 Wa FH 
aa uft wa (aa aH) HT a VeTa a asd F (see HA |) ea 
Worn wl oa faa sre) wx fara ST He AM Praprert at fafa 
wea wet aT gat = 1 ae fs sera sua sie eT HA aT 
2 
oft afaettant qafa art |ar sare 
geshesq Tart (o) waste afta vara wader 
were: ute ee atate qatsteates Gate: 1 ce! 
wat af & ant ak eat wre yeat St orn YAdt 8, as 
wan F ae a & ara et ae uw & fs a Ha e | ara: wR 
Ha F et cae A feat sre & 1 Ts S alt Fer asa H ary fag 
Brat F Yo UM Br sine sa S| VAT Ht qd wea aga a af 
wae 4 ea frst ar A spat ana ¢ 1 we ae Wt & ae Ht Ger 
FH SST SA BA H SRY Tost Wrst set erat | 


. sare aire wa: Taee ANH ( woo) ATH 
fara: (GX200) fafa SATAY (2g00) 7: 


ae ven airy, we 


(G3, Joo) Rf HET Het (xcwou) Whore: 
(09 22,48,000) TET Huta: 
mee arferfe feregia: ererga: Harte 
art eat PTT (vac) Sa SHE MAA AaeHay: | 23 | 
ata at Tora at fafa ct sardt & 1 gd fast cara S TAH Yxo 
WETAL (\92,000~9, Joo = E¥,Lo0) THA YAMA (Goo FeTA F ) 
(G¥ Coo-%,fo00 = 3,200) TAH HAA TH HF (ve, 904) A YM HL 
(3,00,22,48,000) SIE Wt wot B am 2a F 1 wa as geal oa | 
Werat GK HAN A yest Bran a fara aq ST | gaHy rst (3x3) 
apn wt wpe as wot S aT Sy a geal Orn fara (aE Hat F) 
a Hea AA SMT | 
WH fara oqTasSTATHA: (xo) Het T Bpcra- 
SR FT AE TAAL THISAMAATT | 
wiset weara:, ufersfe aver sta fect 
Reheat: enhafes at LAT Aa Fa ct 
qeat a OTe far aM fara wt SAA Yo Fa FATT HW Yeat 
ST Sl SPIIAA AM SM | AE ST He S| WHC ACT HA 
A W WS Fa sraqasqa FH wae ax stares aT arfa wre fear @ | 


Teiscdtata amt & fared aut a4: arem-- 
Tet oH fet cat Haft Hoisd amfrs 
Th ware ete dae WH Wet weet | 
qo neq frye ef aft: Wearhaa: 1 cy I 
sift 3d GH TET SA SB Tet sears Aten us ara Bi ad 
Ten 4 aren fea 2 1) sre & afeem gen Ff orem aren fea 2 | 
wot ax Wen A wet si Wea VS SIT 8 I Ue ort H aa A aH 
TA W Tan TT dren st sat & 1 Gs wen H ae wa et ear 
Waa Tet Sie (TAT) He fawat @ 
Garant cay: afrars farat 
aTqsatarera sy aitstatr: 
waisd afved a BTA ART 
aq wink ga pfosd x art 1 cg 
a fara at gen 8 ax fara stem ater ere 1 ag: Gs WET 
 atdura & waa qi ain dian ei Fi Wa TEN A as fers ST 
gat & geal ora ar fers ser sen @ 1 ata: SR BH ars Wa BH a 


Rveq Rate 
FO Oe ee ee eee ee ae 


weary Bret a LaTA Herat 1 cy | 
SOT aut ST a ST yest at ort UE & was & fad ae 
wae ay aa Starsa fort six afarat a aa fae Bae a 
BA ST ST He HE 


WHAM Wa [Wet Fa WAT 
at ax Beat Het Afrashrs 
frara eter surfed areata 
WX WESET Fa: YT: WHIT: 1 ce | | | 
eat Wie Heaaeaes AEE 
sit wet A aaa ae wat at fea % fare fora fears cir A ax 
went & foega faa afed steat Seara BATA EST | 


AIG: WHT: 


qa wen aol, 


qe ware sferl WeNRTeS ATI WHe HAha Tey 
aerated aistate aaroartwareates wat 1 8 
food vert 4 ax sik wl Cat & wen a ars wal et es 
afar wae sfatcer gd ten 4 as an aa frared a arava 
ant 2 am as am fae tt gt ven & fag cer sar @ | ata: 
wa aa arat wt fase caret Fa stery A ent | 


apart arpa fakorhys, 
eqaraty gat wart FT TAT 
aga YS Waa TH TB, 
Watadisatia arat Uae |B 1 
aad 4 wfa sik ax crt at afte sist wen anfe wan en aK 
ft eara Aeare was A use die 8 Chae Ft ora aaa vest Sz ae 
us & ya 8 a vet crea Foret aa 8 tan eit sik wa ea | 
ae Fa Bea FH HET STAT | ater A ae aa A EP aR AK 
aay sit ad (HH Aa UE B fen F sea) ae era z 
gare yt atra ope Sears 
afer wera sfea: ward aTAT 
detent: © Practise & 
ata WeeseT AT TEMPS VTL! 31 
wa ak VK SH BPS SA KR Tae st epe ext SM set aw 
ward Sra HET wa e 1 Fa aad are A pay Wea SE WT aE 
ya wer Yar verse VM @ | aet ape searaasret Satz | 
warts Tasted we, were fee aaATSat 
araaceasatita: corer fert fears a fea qaarq i ¥ | 
sad areat A at A ax wt fern A arn va 3 sa GH wa 
wed & | Ae Se (GS Ae A tar & are) od ws fern Ae 
Wat Hera & | Sharon sax fern A SA wW va AA Aa Heer 
A ee ere 
W US SM Lea & st: AT TH Aa ANT Ste | : 


werad fafa at qeek aaa faatfates art ara 
Srareay karat WATT as WTS Breahs FEATS: 4 1 


we forara ate, 
=e fafa (cere era) aaa SA ae BES cea Te BaF Pare 
ae a TK wha te aa & aA SA KW TH SI Aa ht Tet 
aati 
frie aerastastra a densa Tra at 
ArT Tag weft wz a: ATT aa a fat: Tareq 1 & 1 
fafaa (ara) at wy Tee Sra say starrer S sifes SH a aR 
at Sat ata Bradt & 1 fafa ara at SER ifs stetie THT HH 
ay aferoy seria et at efiaor afar Stet & | 
' sTraren 8 wz sik ya at us anfe sraaa TA BM wey 
afa (set ste efarr feen) @ et ares ae Ufaarsras & | 
Aealicaraty CITA TAT, Tet TAT, 
wiht warts Prva artercart anit gers feat to 
epee & frag a aesiom ta ar wet KR Tae TAT 
are at aM frareiy | Tea 3 Ue sera ( fas) TA A A: SIPA 
ate Sn | ae wea sik sate fea feen F eA @ seat sik UH 
fern 4 aa a am ers 


_ eratfaaey ferndta ara aaierarer qae felzireat: 
VN TAA WT AE HAKTATST VHA SL Mt TAT | 
wel fates at ar sai eeu (Tat 2 TPM (go) A Very HK 
fafa or serait een | ga saraier wt Hast HI et |pe on Aha 
Hel Ma TI 
faxarnr tit ca fat: ward feat atte 
Tedted 2 cat adler eat Ber Aft HE ATT <I 
we ae aw tf sik ax Han FA at Saat Het Frere 
Rae Hest Her Bet & 1 sa St HAT: ea sik wR Sl WA Aa 
ert & | ea ct afar sear qinen F wg afa ert z | 
AS ath TS: HITT (ew) AMT: WHA (ex) WA Weis 
TATA, Waa Tats aT farferar aear trerat ferfirarar: 1 go | 


aa at thre aft 
ee 


az UA ata = = 


wf atk ax a Ger ata 3 sax at fae sara sad cf sik 


qa Ter TOT, | BR 

ax 4 nfa & ore at aren Gan 3 we eos one we aT ET | 
areaitecet ope oy Tite Ufa fagd was 

Het TATA APS HTS THT FIT WT UAH RATT lI 

avs sife Wa ea I Ce ara & fafay vig (eu aia) GT 


ax FAST (Q¥R¢) SB ANT SA WR Ae TAA HI SST SM S| TAHT SIT 
GATT TH HY SAT HT UL HAT Ata z | 


WATS FT TS (Reg) fae BST afters Baar 

Par aaa seat west fpr ( 3w3c) |ATAT 1 kz I 

Spe or ha (fafaa sip) AI (goo) S WOM HT (VW) A aM SA 
a ot ad co? aa aa fas a aa cf at oe ST aT a 
apt x FAST AIT SA UR 


CCT ST Ga AT UT WTS TT Aaa 
fata amare ot ye fen, th HATS Aa Waa Bret 1 22 1 
art wT ert B 1 eaeHT ATG (SY AT WT HH) ape ee 
fafas ara @ Wa of (wen uf BA RW a wT aad ara A 
vist a at 8 wt (fais am a ufs se qd a oF EF ®) 
ward are 8 TS wert wpe waa HA TATA FO 
Terre ways tia feta aA Aa Sar ue abfetarhe: 
aé Birrandisty qarateetat yada area t ex 
Za WeR ope wae ara a epe wa ak fates am frac 
@ | WM Sah SAR A UA: WEA Hl MES TSM Hl ATE wT E 
fersanmt ate ta See Ss VPS Teast SANT I 
Fa VER AN at Set a Udearal & ata seat Ae Ted WM ae 
epee ud Ga wre Br | at cet & aha Wt sma Ae TA |W ae 
Che ASA Hel ST | . 
ae warerad Sty Mah A AT: Waret 
a: afeste uae atavarer antaa aifeantgs 2g | 
Use a 8 gen ora fraren wt fafa aa A Hem 1 aH Ud 


STS & Ta dar fa frre He CT SAK FY YSTSAT sik 
Frenret | x 


uo . fara city 


qa fa: afer AeA ARM TATA HAT TT ATT: 

Ae aca ITY Aas AGHA ATT FT WAST: 1 vo | 

Wea He TA We Sk yee & sent Hl at am alieen a 
at siser saat of qa aa S Hl erm | aifesn aw a ST APT 
Rl IT HT Hol S aT Ay a Aes wH ay sim BF Sa ea A 
Ha waad bret er TEER ae Se BT ET A AeA TT HT 
TH SO i wen 


W area oy nfs Sara faere at rest arene 
fardenenretral aieedet CAAA BT Taig | ve 1 
are a ata @ am aa A Bp]! Aes (aTEHH) HS se | 
qe aeay oer 8 oife eR et & ae ag a at a- 


BAT CAAA SAAATATA GAT GH: BUNT Va 
TAA TITHE HET WAT (1932) ET WAST AAT 1 ke I 
QS WN we Hey aT BM Var Aes Ht Fey Ups aT F 
HSA 1 ga were sik fara eRe cra & feet a Gare Ta ca sik 


we BT Hea Tha WH aM ( 939) A WM Rl WIR Spe WE ae a 
® 


Tee oT Aa wre fecifed wert wats | 
ufteaay area aifs wre cafe war eES TAATAT | Ro | 
Tf sr @ AM S| yaa areata epe eas aifa wpe er 
& 1 eet ver ape ora alfee a weet at aifa cei ar dear 
SC A Upedy atarey sia z | 


we & (que) Ear Bea fe Te UTTEReTaEA Bie ata 
fren ed oy aft afsarer fater aT oat aT faarea: 1 22 1 
(area) wpe ve ret wpe aa sik efe fret He et H sa 
at plfesn a (20) @ ata @ 7 we fren a am AW oat 
at faaret adit @ 1 
TAPTA: WIA PET WET WeIAT (193k) EAT: SPSATATAT: 
are Vpe amt frarr aera qitepascay asa: | It 
se east fare wt vest BI are efaarx H fa sea ( 32) @ 


DU he TG IC UL Ste FE ee A 
facta deen Ha a ana wa eT | 


ga wet aA BUR 


wea WaTes TENeAaTeS WHE Tea fea avE fred 
MT Sper WK Mit: YT: Tared Ta AssHT GL RI 
Za VAR WS FAH Hl Aa SA RN as Ten fer aay 
a fau ven & fae soar ax at aaa ape nfs (cea fen re 
3-ag steqva 4) Praret aX Tae cea |p| Blew HT OT He | 
TEATS Hee TH, AT WH Te BH: SHE WTA 
uray fete wet fore: Hraterqara BAMA: BIT | Bw I 
TWaRa Bl go AAMT sat aise at aaa wa H Ys A TSN 
Ol Tera Pa WER OS HT Ha S| aH oa or fener a Wea 
sa Upe WES Fear WK Frareit | 
arte art ope wed ot feta at cea a 
TEA, WY AT BAH MTSA: TACT BWlT WTA MTA: 1 WI 
eae we dente gl 8 epe ud ara wT a ak fas aA 
Preprel ae SA Cea awl sore FraaTeA 1 stay Ce BH starter A aK HT 
cart BL AISA UI SM TF FETA S WT ET | 
afe Pao wring arg fateretesh: wo 
MET AANA VA AA SAT TTT BCASTHTSAT 1 EI 
yRTa sit fats era us fee Ff SA wR visa sik first fee 
¥ OA & verat aa Prereana & 1 wa arg St ST HI Aa Hea Fz 
SAS SF ATH HEA TAM a THA TT A seq ST ht Hea Fz 
Teter Wire feast asa earetet aft: Waar 
Hearaat qe frat ere SH, AT UT CAAATTATT | YW | 
ga neq (fea afeta aa) Sn Ht SaaS BPN HT BST SAM 
aa @ 1 aera of ak were of Sear Ga oA OA gH BG BT 
eI 
SAM THAT VTA HIATT A TA CAST ATT: 1 RW 1 
sear fafa ct at Ufa aa at TAA wha Se UL TET HT 
fearg fared i ga fears aay fae ama & are & arq A aya 
Frarat W Aas SPT | . 
FRA TARAS ATT Te fed ATT 
Ber ANSH, YN CATA TATPHAAATTATATUSATT | I 


Ru | fogra ator 


ve fate aay ST SHAT (Sl TATE St Sa HT sre S HATA 
OR WA Fe sre) Prare) vam are aan vets at fafa & 3c, ee 
efa, fafa vig saat ca wn one Prareh 1 ca saree ure fairs 
wate erm) fafa sat aria saa sraier & Tat eT 
PATHS aE: Wer sateraretsarra AA: WA HATy: 
fem, are tele ofa feseren asara ea, aa eft fetter: 1 301 
W adi sat ® seqen cfr SoM | ae Adie sit HR WR UH 
fern 3 8 w sist seen ae dt aa eT | wa St ST TH AT 
SIT | FA WH ST ae HT SH AT | 
yaa, ferme were qf wet frerafaaremt a: 
feared: His yer HR VFS: SAA Wet Yragw: 1 32 1 
art oH a stem stein Taal Sa Heres wanfa S pM He 
faSn 8 am tar Gat Hl sist F (TR AK HR HH onfe § UNF 
Tet W) A Vera (Hare Ha onfe « Uf AS) Tas Ca Aa Spe 
Brat | 
fade ara Sereaarst waste ae: (Re) whereas 7 
sR, Meat Gersar fadrar wrest eyeraar fraret: t 321 
a WHR Hr EES oH ATH Her wa Fk Hoa HA BH 
wan @ afer wren we H fade em, au A fafa sare S Gepa ez 
fort Sat @ 1 8S We He aH Wa WA W GAH ea, Aa fea sa 
%, FW wa fas aha & depa z | 
HAT ART AheAET (TT IIS, AH YRC) 
SH, AT Pret frat (4134) fretteat (av3c) 
Gd afreter water (234) TH TH, AT 
gad (q) Wa Bpel aT 331 
FETA TAS (BRC) BL TH AFA (GRIND) HT STAT (GR GIRY) HY 
sq oa S pn az fren S aT ea a Ha ape afa et ears 
fata- 
oa aT 
Beat 


ca ag - 


we ge aa wt feen A ere 


ga wet sory Rua 


watyaerg ware: wa: frees 

ayistrarer wpe gh Weare Dante faq we aq fafa-g: 13x 

aH RR aM Bp a fa HI VAM fen F et we am ae firs fern 
# OA KW SRN SC KR Se WM ea F1 fir AMA sifew er 2 
sot a fesn & ape er | Tea TS VET sear Ff fea Fras 
aa Oe aa feafa sty aT ATE VPM | 


areafrctesr wifas Mea werat wheter see 
We: wrat sade ares: ahasad fafers adised 1 34 1 
SE HI SU WM SIT FIA -& STAs @ sifaes SA WMS BAT 
Spa | BMS Hl SA Maa Her arm | fafa wl ser Sra va waa 
a wa aM 
Tararftase Uftasd THIRST MIAea TSU: CANT! 
araset aa frradised veer forat frases: aq 
sare @ sti tea ot fates at sax wera @ stag Herat V9 
Al wRtat A SISA A Be Aa Sia & 1 fates at sar Sha Has a 
wy BA W stare @ ae wha Berar Be B wa 
farsitfedt arer adisaate ater: erere faat faye 
arasay fair os Sa CaTarad ahet Mradiscy 1 30 1 
Berl S VWs clay Aa STN | WIA A SAM FEA W Tata ST | 
fafira af afar aria 4 sats: SISA @ ae afe sar eal @ HH BY 
Weraad: Weradeadat faaes: arsz adisasrs 
aTTeTH Tay Fase UT Saq Seay fe Hersahy: 1 a 1 
wt wrha sit statist & art HI eral @ Vera B11 Be wer anfe 
SR Ad eT | UH ster @ ofaw sais ara war a A wa Wen 
aa & faa aa fast a sate 8 
Aa: Marsa wit Wepara: Hit: Ver fatey ATTA: | 
FATT ATA AFAR FH NT Heq acas Pacey: 1 3d! 
ava: wre: Se tert FH (faygad Ga Aa Bl Bish) VTA WHT 
fata wi @ aa aret erm | (sax cfart fest A) ae ga, ay, 
qeq am aq sufe at frac | 
wm axanfa aa art ated faarater feary fase: | 
qet TH art aa: Waet ga, fase ae ated 7 YF t vo | 


guy faara aio 


_ WRT sears 4 fea wa fran @ ca atk we aT forse TEA 
SUT | FA WER OTe ae fac at Gears Se feat sre ga a 
fafa wareh or dt 2 | ae vee fed srrard 3 tet wer FL 


eaitte tattea S-atfewest qehnpT (ax3c) TITATT 
Wer Te a: Wer ate feet Prafrar (ggcwg) Pagers Wewe 
"aR aT aes ach omfe ¢ Ufa H cet wR fear @ see Sew 
Wer, seaen (AS ae Ha sofe & Ui A Tet ) HT sk Mowat 
at SIS | Het & ot at rene } ot A aise saa Fa fot 
Sap a weraa 
wett ret Epreranty, wet 
fe foarara a= wet: - 
Pare FAS HarafarsT (gow) 
wen TH: pes AAI ¥V I 
we 8 fet at A am ah, wa ae wef at fern ert | aE & 
Req fy He HA (giz) aT Hse (3vae) BM He Wea 
(Rowers) F aah S aT Ay we aR aT Epe fee eM | 
arta wig ape aera Geer SaIST UT ACT (4RIRC) 
daet war afage ey errant waa: Wat: 1 xy | 
Spe saat ara Praca at Sa aaa & as ea a yd fran & 
TAR Vig ste aren Farad F 1 VR Hl SH (GRRE) VG S VeTA 
21a a wi sk ost a ot sear saan Ge rare & ae 
sot (or Hol) ern | 


epost Ret Aad Sulgd SMTA Wary I 
wee Tee fates vig freee afrerater tv | 
Bpe ws fare ot fsa 8 yn ar ag Sof @ ar aA we qa wet 
Cars a ures At eo | ape WH fst aA BI Yeo F ape 
uderet vig 8 apn at fren @ am & ax cafes H ope ax frst 
art F asa @ ot aeq aaa eT 
fear fereiaa evs dear feet faferareata wear | 
wre fre freta anf arg fe wat x TEMITATT | vy I 
wee snfe & ero at fara onfe frees 4 aga uta & aro 
a caet ws are fate dt frarett & 1 ope udere Ff fea wt aaa 
wet Bl YS AN wr TA fawn AA ar ape we fag Ht HoT ane 


ad weet aohTA, a 
4 ated 8 whe eT | 


arerg qh ta ThE am: waat eat sare TAT (3xR¢) TH: 

wT TH Tht: TAaTH Ghee SAT We Breve 1 ve I 

WIA VaR G pe GH Wit H ego Hl ape ud wifes wa wig 
Hr we Fen (ax3e) Sam aa a we afss F ape ws aw ara 
nf ISA 1 arrHe at Gs ahs @ sera a Ws aS HlfaswH | erM | 

aareatas fedraret aret warfa: aferar facrear 

Teese Tat tha qf eat eferter aref faites wre: 1 wo t 

feat & safa wre (set ofa) at Saat Ye ATT HA BHT VE TH 
a AA at VX at sremfa F sted @ wrewe 8 cfa st ape ats 
‘a2 @ was sie dar Bret wT ez eT I 


Pearse wee wWHPA et PAT 
Tania Gita war feerat cate yoeret Me: 1 xe 1 
IETF geal ren ste Te fast UH Han A TSA HF HOT aa 
A tart Fe SV first aet Stn F 1 aa: SH DET H ae wry el SENT 
qe 8 gt wet A ora qi am ores as ft fet we AOE 
a FIT teat Fe AB ura Fe sre Z| 


Tee Te aT aren areT WERT SAS 
HAT TAME PHT WTA YAH YRITAa ATT: 1 xB 
aed wen H wre shz Grew Hl ster Hea ST Be HOT SCT Ste 
tart Hore we Sra 3 1 get ofa a sax efaror ast aA ST 


dt} sre secure dare sik AAAS UT SSN SIEM AT HAT 
erm | 
— BRLY Arter caesar Vtheary wer wT 
fererg nets uel warts waa Was aE TABTT 1 Yo 1 
are ears & Prat & arpa aaudaifer Spe Wz, AAAS 
(ore Bras Farah aH AM sr Se), WET He SR BIT Teel VAR, Ale, 
feeeard aen set aetea Pravah 1 (ex at it a) ae wae, Fre, 
frawrg ik nets wae aret & wey oR (aT SSA ay) UAE tz 
waters aaa er | 
wraffesreny Waa Brea ALATA ATA TT: 
fat oar at oot fea, Hat wareives Tt WAT 1 4 I 
was Be seniors sik fafa era araax ye atk ufkay aq 


HR . frera cet 
rare, z7a 

Wareyq Tq ad Shad: Ma: TERA wast Ta ferara 

wena SH, ta adre fre: fers Sart: waaearany 1 421 

Fa Vpe aeast sre 8 wei, Ate sife ava wr eae aa F 
Fa VaR Geer BA we casi, safe aret a fe Ta Brat SH Up] wz 
ait saa fread frara az waadara a direst we | 

afteaarad es: Yt: a Sralfea Fer waa, feat: 
fer qaq cret fatter ad Pateratert wre BTL 43 

ya aaadera a wa: cea fara at ere onfe wera ar yA: 
dear ai | 3a WER a AK HY F HATTA A wast ar at Ata 
ret FY arg svat vet eT | sa ver esi, ata, safer fata 
Wa TE SPT | 

wt We wafen aiserd fers nets at apt ea 

wad Sa cael fate ST Wa: Wea: SAT ANAT! yw 

wa waatie are stk ape od are} seat 8 rit feafa srs er 
art ae sre at eae ATS sre SI AMT WA ETT | Sea UH a aH 
fafa & cui atk dretare a ap) 3K Frara at FAA ORS ea CHT 
wl seat Fraret | 

TeNnqITad, we fafeten feacrs & aperaHefaty 

ara fadta feafa avs frs Walaa CTT STATE ty I 

Fae sya A eas six Hea Se ST WK fers Sten 3 | HE GTS 
UH PMNTGH BAK Sat F 1 TAH AMT H ane H aaa SH sae SA 
@ woei ake Aa aret eT eK FraRer | 

aM aw an F fray F (gaa) feafa ag area Pract | 
ToS VA, Alea HIT TAT ATeHifersH Vp|e WC (HET BISA HT) HT ATTT 
wea & 1 fier neq prefta Up] we B eae sie Aataret & we AT BAZ 
frnreta & 1 

Tat Wa, WAAR Ta Tdraries aaah 

fe at cadear caren qft ftrerdal dera wa Aq | 4g | 
_ - & sent & agora & (ei seat a1 sae amg & aarazr wy) 
fer cast atk drearea an epe eR (area) Frere 8 1 yt: sae feerfa 
ard frarad € 1 ae fea a a a@er @ eR (eraR) BH]E BI UMM 
zr. 


ga we ach Bs . 


Warat afta Adee seq feats we: west 
qe Pps Sd ale cvsdet Racsaet wees 1 yo t 
WIT Sat dee & are Vai sik Wat wre a feafa ad siz 
aaa feafa até FH ait ua anfe saz eh Sa ont a aeg fearfa ag 
aa 2 a at afea anh se casi sik Wa ® fafa ad 4 sitet 
a ae ope a2 
feererg 9 cus @ HH St Wel ae feet eet & 1 stk aPTHa Tat 
Stet rat 2% | sa frearfa sr @ fix saa wast sik at erat wr WEwZ 
ax 32 ape fen ora 3 | . 
area adt oat Fa at Aes fafa queaq 
St At aaa afses art Hava cfs: WENT! We 
wat Gepa cata (sararem) @ ae feafa vert a SISA a 
SY erst at Ate are dim 3 1 Sa aN & ape we afe aA aad 
(farsa am ar sen) a afar e- 


washrat a Teresa AeaMA TAN Ferfrarh: 
Weq We We warey weg fears SAS cat fat T oe 
OW Tae Gar St a yea feats srg HI Ua Ha A AM HT TaHT 
ST) ater Se ee are eee 
a am ee 
wa Wad ata us fed feeds ttf aris a ar 
Tee Th UH AAT TAT CBA: WM 1 Go | 
wae wH St an FH was sik aa fafa ord fo MAF AA 
feafa sta 8 Wega ope ud aa S UH VI A ae cea Praer 
@ | Fa ear Wepa west sik dataret @ Eps eR fren | va fa 
a aR a aa Farcat wl sagan Tete 
MSs Bq Met Wa Wael sea TATA: 
afer ern arefadts ara arg ante wat erargy 1 ke 1 
qa vent 8 we fara ar afar ay (ores fara) & aie TA 
Wags we eM | ta eA KW We sk Wes was (fat AA 
aM HT Set) A urew AA Teraz stare SI at HL TAA pe WM 
ar ot aera & | 
* 
Wet qdae TT ee Aa: TT: SINS AMAT HTT 
Wet Gere VAT: aq aes ATAMTaT AAT 1 GR 


Rue . faa <dot 


SAR H YS H Ve Hl MS (TR VEN seaqra Ht fate a) 7H 
aik 6k vam B aera Wa HT Ua ante feafa ard fran i ca 
Rafa ad aa oma Geen wt aad ara 8 eet a Sea 
aa UTA HI ses sik Ba Bret eM) 


qafas We TSTa wt Aree a fro Gat we 
farecaat aret aa are Adcared afesrat Ter Ware 1 ea I 
Wen evs Va TMT a Se HT SA Aa a aS (far 
ya) X oy feara & fafa & ora 4 are, 7a & qe otk Sn anfe 
H UE He | 


ae aera fre vd 7 adr SH Wat seit 
adstad fefracd fare qa cee fafa aeisfr ext 
aeprard + dt aay feara fertain & fafe asart & 1 saa 
Ten wre oH fers er At Stats | ata: Be age eer ofers fers 
R aa slrH TET FS HET z | 


freara af we aw Ne eres Weqepe aTaTaTT 
Tea ean fafa fasiiga aware cea | ey I 
yates fra @ gd ven are wz east ae sik ther pre & UPS 
RK St AIT VA Bh ay HTT ST A Stee Bre WOT HT FTA (3¥3C) 
a am BW sa sa a Safe AAT 
udteate We Bilan aT: Tata wert: 
ara: gets fom wafadre: wardara: 1 6s 1 
wi dr ate at oa (fae a7 Yeo) BY cast arte Wen arate 
@ am 2az vet sife wa Farah | os aaa sie wpe a Fe fee 
FO Wye varss Ga a eoeife sre F SSN serge serait | 
aa area eae, meq ait Ateaare SPT | 


WATT HAG WY: Veet: Tara Titra: wat: 
aay frat fafa cmt ware, ydfterase Aq agAra: eo | 

ae GAA Ue & aaa S afas SA WW adi aratfas WA eM | 
udara 8 Sa KG Saat sett arate ST A MT 
gate aw @ am eax venfe wa frarein 1 qd fafa ora & uss 
Tet W eaeife Srer FY ASA | set Tt wera: 

erates wepa waaay warensemeal Prorerearat 

Aad SNe Ve Wes Hrcsrias Vpe few wet ee t 


aa went quay RR 


a VER aera F casi, weg sik Aeat STAT SAAT | HTT HT 
UT: Phe Ta SF Mapa SA QR WEN Hl She HaHa BM | 
anfad rermafrat yard canes pe fea, WMT | 
fears artrada: art Bared Sara ceirgd TTI es | 
Ta Ae Nearer ce WC HI Tt sit meq afeart ssa. 
saat Tye co as Spe Hears MK erm | gaa od Ufa a 
erat sit armfers feafer sre fremreit | Saat stent stem eat 
ape Feria a Ben SN at fast S am s 
writ arm fetta faa ae age Weaa wdaraT 
arias are aes fred Racer arg frag at Aq 1 wo | 
wast siz slat aa ek um fern Hwa HK eae cepa Ud wT a 
Was et Fereah atk fadra wer ay Ate depa ue area A ssh | casi 
ait Fat ee ft fern ¥ Sa oe east sik Ha feafa srk & ars 
wr crest sit dia cepa udarea FY waa wearin, sit SASH | 
Raced vemrg at geared feaaar fart 1 vet 
Sl ai HG: set aay cer @ Weed al & east sik ha 
wre areta F ape ero S| fag Rercrs St eg TET are HY ET 
& pT Ht FAST (3v3¢) B AMT ST VT I 
Watast ara Tha: tare Pears A A Aa cst 
AHA H A TIHS AHET THT Siete APE | wz I 
Uataaret at creat areatiera tia A freeren sat & 1 casi sik 
Wat area HY areeifee ax a eafeie sik af cea freer 
arfea | ae wr area ofa & fear aT wae ze 
TAT MTA, SATA Ath eal ee aT s crftreerie 
wert aarte qafdsre mara WeTt Aa: TAT | B03 1 
a & qepra et & anise sik Af we Huse afew 21 
att tr aarat & sem fore oft farts fafa mem x1 fra feat geo 
Wea sree FI 
Fras qf we qe tren erat seq wpe aTTHTA 
oe ST Oe gas ae SraTET PT eT: | oY | 


sate fafa a qf oer fara aw cael, neq ote oer are 
SPS WM HB SMA swat wa a & HPA ST A HET He WM 


go . . fart ator 
ax frst & aT 2a & | 
erst arat era fetes cent fet fexiegquia: 1 
MA Te Yfortar eee: Te HATAT (3) AT FE APE FeAT: | wy I 
waet sik Flet aret Hr eR Ue fen A BA UH FA Hel HI aT 
aay wei a vert, fis fern A BA ae WSN 1 wet a MIR A IPN 
wT 3g TMT AA HK ale at fen eri | 
aT Ua Wet Tet VEST: & were fats ort ara: 
faray e: sat [fre fasta gat feaat ae a Ua Aa 1 we | 
eral wpe ere, Fea sik Hat aret WA @ fates ora} ara 
at ear @ pe ae fase (axR¢) @ aT AA Ww ale (red) feert | 
TAHA VESTS TAT ART Tet ta wet Fars 1 
amr wast ysis fea cat wart att aaa wre: | wot 
ga dia afe at co wt eae anfe wen a am tae ves HT 
frerata | ara-arta ait ope we fits fesn # SA aw ea aUETife 
area 4 ASH, sear (aR fee A sw) Berar | 
wretfe 3 Wega ud aren wearah se zed fra wae 
Ware: Ae Tees area Montes ere ferthres 1 we 
ea war area Fo eaei, aeq ott arear aret ata | Het HHT 
UF: Spe war F Pepa SA W We HI Up! FeraHre eT | 
antag ner afte at Gar waned ope fea, wre | 
Wee: BEAT: TaneT fears HA CHS Fe TST | eI 
way we Hever BES WC HT at sik yeaq ale ant sitsaz 
saa age ot 8 ae eT AeSTa HT VR eT | FAS east siz 
Ata apret pr feafa ste Preanre | 
wares OT EPMA At fe at Sepa waver 
 HaaATN: Tay ATS Aaa Sree TeaATSANT | Zo | 
erat em Spe VeaaTies A Ge Ss yen at fren 8 aT 
& | wey (east He H ) Her HI TTT Vast feats (ap|) ars B sera. 
den fda wor at Hat & ope feeafa srk FH BIST ga St HI are. 
oat & aepa wa z 
Arey avery freer fetsafe qeq aeere wt Herfag 
amranrater ght aan qt we: ae fesaraya i ce 


qa we aot : RRR 


aeravs (rit fraser 3 am wr sre) & Fee wT HE IR 
3 FT 8 Sta ates a a am am ws 8 a wa Se at Ht 
aa Ten a area sal far a aa? 
Tea: Me: Tas Aer aT ASN Tareas WaT 
Tet sae a aT aa Ae fear fry ye feta 1 cz 
meq ere afe east aie Rat aret St Hee a HH A, Shit B orfirs 
@ at art & aurar st at wea arett fafa ar et oraerR HET Urea | 
oN Wreat ae went ee ae Ure a aT cea fed fray 
amt fet ax rat frat wae fee a fe atrasft i ca 
SH Wet SL Wa (sty ea @ fea 8) Tet HI wer (qd aT 
VX HI) AMT WT S 1 Sl et Cham & Tae feat fear (stqera) at 
avast vet & 1 ata: fea ar ax GET a Ufa aa Ga VENT (TTA 
 sqTaR) St a at ae oral aet 3 
fer Preavat ta axa ttegarer amt ate grad s crs: 
Ter fafirerae Be sree frte Te Temes: Tt i cx | 
cafes fer & aaa area (stifere) cram qa ver ae ata & 
aaa Sed chad Bsn VR Ue & aaa aM aM ania Heita aa 
ure site at Fite & | Vat ata A were | 
atte area rat fears at aka area: wfadisaara a 1 
aafed aq gat YO wen fade war fea wet freferqi cyt 
Ts Ten A a VaR Se Ha A OW A aM Wal A ae 


wre Ta Bat st sraT aed Frere Bra S| Set wea Was WET F 
at aa fara etdt & 1 


TT IX Te |: waa fase sr yohits af (uo) fare 

TATA (203) FF Ter wre aT: afer TaMaTTaT: (32) | 

Tae: HHnrex fare Tass (xe) wre fares fr war 1 (23) 

gal wr: qeahiea: a WHAT WeACAMa: (¥o4) 1 CR I 

ae Ten wt fear watfrs (4go) Te | TR VET BT WA ACTS 
(293) Ua) qa wen at ation feefa (632) WI | Gea Ore wt 
watfas feafa (xe) Wa | aera ore a watfae ada (23) Wet 

qentafa asagat vou va gfe et wed & sata (foe GIN4) 
AI REIN SOS SY TH z | 


REQ frsra cdot | 


feat: Gare gat wx te fT (wey) TT 
— gaserrae (wee) Aral wera: (282) 
aase facets (ag) TINTS: 
qat tant wet FH HF ATTA (sv) 
aie et (¥32X9) fafer 
qriretat (223) TEM: (geo) UcafafeaT 
aay S HTT: (322) | 1 ct 
ae feafa Hier HT WT ATA-ave guIKy 
ae feats BI Hl AAA AP-avS G22 
art ay qfa-eaz Wa 
am Gq ata -g& Tet 
TE HRA Tht SA — GA (+) wosy fewa 
WE Hr UH fa WaA-WT (-) xe fava 
aia ar Ue tia weer (+) 923 fawen 
fa ar aay fa wa - BO (-) evo fawen 
Cpe AT WA FeT (4122) 


wantt as ary face ea sudg we Ty AS AT 
qetoa afifa saat vHNe qhrarts taro 
Wey Wy ae oy ATA yg HT gfe aT 
gafe a facet caqaaf te fast faq: a 1 ce | 
| fire weaver ar cm adel, ga fara otk wre & wT A os at 
Zo ait Fa VaR sae Ahi wt ot Bead AaB TH ae at UE A 
aea at (GS Tet H aA) YAS SR AG que F WMA aHaet 
geal & areas art @ wa A Sra 2a F 1 ae waar Ea at wT 
ATS Ht 
TIFAATT JTS HT THT 
aft TX Wet Het afrashr fess 
frert ety sored arcane 
aa we Tae BY omar: 1 cet 
aq var sera & fread waa 8 sas at aE Me aK 
Trt stk efe A AAT ae arerH at fea & fore fasra cdot 
Fae vers Fas west a acta GAA Eat | 


SO eee 


CMT: WHT: 


Ufa aur 
water Tere a rey Sea St Oa PTL 
Megqqeses Th WR Hest AA TATA 8 | 
ad ak ae cent Fo worst, dat ae nears oo atk fra form 4 
am, 7a era HI a at fas @ ae at are afters eT aA SET 
= | 
sway frdra: fay ere xedata ated We 
adits Tas areiste wey IM ATA 1 3 
art 4% (at feet soa 4) fares wa aeq We efe a acl BIT a I 
carafe a Aeat-ySaT Stat &) Var dren ara at fesn (sed) F et 
eral & | Tat ee sreeret A wa se Ut VK Se STH WR US TT 
wm dt ae Fea ry (Su fern) F Bret feat F | 
facierd a fats weed wreq fifrerradis Zea 
forarft a cenferat feserirerars arereecrra ter 1 2 
Wt: 4 ait (ae fara) feracra F eek a ae chaa @ 1 ata: we 
sre Fa Ae Ga wa A aesrfas ex snfe & art fas za, 
as, 4 or sife a (eR) Ufa St wea A Taal fas careat 
eM | 
farnasimra Bret we aris fer (goaew) AT HIT TH: 
Bet: SAAMI Tar werkt faery fraveqqenha ty | 
ws Tet Fas ud gl wen a qd a saa HIG VHP are He 
(AT WS rer HT iG) TAY gogex) ssa SF | aera Hl fawn a 
a AX SA ER A RSM | ga A ax, Gs sik orn wT fara 
Wa MK HAN A AMT SA A SAH SAT AMA |TM | 


fret feard fry area feared ae safafeser at 

fe aT aa: qa mtg feat we (3) AT: ARTIS ACSA 1 4 

aI Ve aT El wen fear & fers wt 2 SPT HA say 
sata area 4 ar at aprne wr fears SB aT VA aeT VX SVT I 
a et & fara, sepen anf Ham 2A a ae sess SAAT eI 


SES Sines i Soret ah Gt ee arlene 
Bra & * 


4 
Ray fas ay 
qatar fa fag Aa cal Ta: HheSa AeA! 
get ware (yoige) frat gd wae aera TT GI 
Ba & wa waa We w feat wx fag GF (uuize) sige 
STATE he Shes (HATE) FT UH Fa Wa | FT FA HI AM ate 
aa farat at aera (gare) ef 
aat aug ufiar wel caefa ara aw qa ATT! 
aed wanted fhe wea fears arracta farsi wo 1 
va gu & ee a a ot Aes } ae oars wT UH sik 
Oe Ara erat AT WATS Te SPT | Sas Hae ore fast carers 
wT Ua Ta ATs | 
wrrag few areadt aa Heat few, fae aq ward fra waqTy! 
we We HgTe cert Pres ware Versa Tc | 
foeifaen at fafa @ eta ga 4 ok ue sit cfs gu 
yet atk ufars farg @ aerae) & awaz (she) HI AE (ATG Tea 
wera 8) 
erst: fadt wat area ae et wafexta tae Ae 
We fad: ae ae we ore ae: Yaaty wars Q1 
siatq yd fers & ane & eael at a at we Ma are & | 
er at sett stot faen 4 ara awa S| 
(Se Aer & fore Tex fern F atk fant aera & fore afar fee 
Hara wrea St wR WET ar Vat aM West aT Aa saw fara & 
ye & do & ) vet var vie fag 8 WET S Het a i we & 
wae aret Hace aw sree fen A =e eras 
araey farsa ware qa aeasty fen, gafidte firey 
Ae ay Gen wa fest ward: Warts saTHAT: He | go | 
wert Ot are aera & smfag a oR fog aw vat GAN | 
RAPS (Tae) FAR we ge we ae we vies, Tex cfr fas 
sare att) gaa of afara sik gaz afar tar Gah 1 sax fee FH 
ye an cfs farg at fear are tar at aera Yan Hea Fad 
ant fat ot fargait uz wredt & aei @ seem srt fen F =ara BA 
qe Paes BATS aa Cael TATA TART | 
UE WararerHe wea: wrred: Cre Fares: wT! ee 1 
| Sat wert & sm am aw frend arett tar warage St fra a 


afer aot 2Eq 


fase RH Hed & ae @ SH aay wast atk Atal wre FH MH 
area OT | Fea VM HT RN Gara Ta Bl VS HL | AS WeWsHT) 
arg We & eet atk faders & aaa od TH- 
qatgates Werte ae arr ay fernrea fers: 1 
wand weary fas wht Ya WMS WI AOA AA! 22! 
qen Serr ste ata & arg ues Ht ace ert F 1 ge wet A 
ae coal 3eet fern H rn Bi eR a AeaN fag aH taT GA GB 
ae wre fares oftfe at wet arem @ 
eres Wea Tafeear Mel TeHTA Aa: ACE: 1 
arenes CT Sat Ta TET TAL We: Wars: 1 gz I 
ad ® areafos wei sik aa een i agi eR sik ae FART 
saw ArH, fers AH srqan fea ara zB! 
a a earn fasatta warty arn fiega: sahara | 
aerfa meq wet fests creta ait: @ frre FAT ew | 
IR afart sik Se fen FSA wo ot eet weit seg anfe srt 
at fee H dra 2 | 
at Te Ts Ven FH qeq eT Hl Ht ara faa G Hed F 1 az 
TET & Wey wR UE UM eq ® free adt Sa we 
Wa TAT THAT 
AASAT, WATTS, Shao FHT 
faere aq aad BgGd wreat 
_ watea, telfafraea Te! 
aan 4 yd for & we ae amet fees FST eM | Ta aes 
sam 8 4 siqa & sraze @ Ta sik afer at ars sik at faa 2B 
ve ward @ Tet ST aH Us aera Ho afer at ATH) | 
TIMP AY AT ATTA BAT ET 1 8G I 
a fae si ga & Se fag 8 Ga oe Vat GA | oF 
7 gen & aaa yf fen A at aes fern aT a sas aM a 
SH aq Sa FIA AM H aR sie se A * 
fre Urea aert fadtf ter adt cara frat ward i 
qaredtt qose neq fast fefareq areahefre aearg | ye | 
wifa foot & sre farg tax va fag sik nea farg & ara at 


QRE faara atu 


Yel St Agra cara BT A CGN ea Ven & SM ast Sa a ey 
Tes aarti fam tare et 


ae wreard witha 4 frat Gar dearer vata: 
Det Tet cored AT AAA ATT WeISLAt FS AM: 1 ve 1 
wa eR & a fas oe GS Ores fra HE aya I ga TATA | 
ae ad We dd wT St aM He san St as ait wine F ore 
ait at feart em | . 
fa-cad taef faster eq eRerypTay fara wena 
aed farsat afe (3) aT Gam ga fraasa Sra 1 ee 
wat, Feq atk Hat waa a MK fara & Utara FH army wast 
W vad & | ea dia faazit @ us ga Giaa f 1 ae gu GaAs fad 
(sarfafa st ara fafa cast site Stet & ata at att & ye am at 
fren & 


FAT AG YY TA AA Teas TS YS TT, 
Wa wt cher Tat aT AT TTA WaTs 1 20 | 
da fereait a UE UH Ga BAN 1 ct eam ae & fees F 
aro a fafa ait sae sat efar fargstt at frardt ef kar wt 
freee sit agra | 


wena ofa eras=r WT fare fers wea 
ted oY ores Ant UT oT fag fadtaraerea t Re I 
art fafa Vart fara fare ux feehh aet @ feat wm faa ® 
ara & wes ad Ghar a ae At fast 8 sex Sr | we aT 
St ares Ari erm | 
wre, ant at wren avs qed fewer fog oh mh Bry 
WARTS, We TT Boa BA CPM WA Frater ATT 1 22! 
ya tres ant & neq forg G easel Ht fee A ( we ten A ye 
aa ven 4H ufira) wes ga & fenferg otk orem au & neq (HK 
farg 8) freer tat Sta | ae Vat get | ore fara wT fr| 
(sara) uftfa wr set cael et ae Prites fare er | 
sate. alfice anf gar wer safes aty crew: . 
werfendice fafa-g anit fra seas farqa: eae 
wh WER tres ani ax a ae aes aa a gad ace a fer 


afae apa, geo 


fre we Hvar fra fag & ore ae at offs @ frat 3 ae sha 
fas Sat 8 1 ee aed (aaa) Hoe fears or feat ore erm ae feat 
a fea ores apt ot cea fare & Sai aes a Ges AAT | east at 
fem 4 (aanen & fay wd qa & fou visa) coe BUS aM gan 
Flat AVS | . 
Tee eariste Aifrerea araeq feest ufeanfe fret 
Rercrg ares frat ab wernqert ate fag AHL Bz I 
wat sik Heavs at sige H omarg ara 1 siqet SH ee Bet a 
wor ae earietee fearfs atk S aT SN (ge are wal & are ey a) 
aa Ala Ste wT Atal eA A faa waa areal & TAA WO He Atay 
fafa ad Sam et) fran wae fare 8 ores Gos a east sia 
RR Ct Wa ae fag S Masta aw atl wz uw fare eH 
Seal Wee AVS TT FAN WWy facaey a4 
aorfed ore ante Bret Seas TaAHTAN AH FUTATT | BW I 
wast al ala & shard fag Bo ules fag & ooraTs & araxz 
Pen a gt ah | va ae srr Me fra a fra Bes dim, ww 
waa FH saat St ura eT | 
axe fie WaT ten WaT BvEra faster 
Wratyes ae Prisaieenyea WATT ATA BATH 1 2G. 
tre sik mee fra arg sigs @ ge mre sige Vera 1 Ba 
STA & Awa HY Va Vera (Pointer) 4 | 
Wreradt art wat ward erst forte catcher HAT | 
WA BME Mes ANE ces at wes fats AAT! Yo 1 
ae Waren Ure faa Hz S arisia gE A art wt fem 4 aar 
alfate ge 4 devant af fern 8 eat) werent ert at fara cara 
wae wont se ferg S oree fans & oararsg wt Ga SRT | 
Wet qaeet HIT aaa WR TH THAT AA A 
AMRTet frat retreat uraré weret fextty Harte 
ae fas ore fara at fara eeeart SF SoM St ge Ura fears Sm | 
Wa att wes fast a se at Saat sted cag at wera aT 
wx Tet A as fs ez a aT et eT A a Paes a ast 
fea 4 cart | 


Rae ferara doy 
wa ant fre adie aes wrend, fea sari: 
Pret cara fret a eargatrert ater velteer GAA) Be 

Ae WAHT Fe KR Wes art at wait TA ax aH TA fare 

eran 1 aét a ora stk sree wr ain (eta Ver ay frets) eT 1 


ae tre sik ores fea ured am an faders eT ares tart et 
Bat & ana dia set var ea a sale tara eM | 


yer ue BIEWsaar at ax BYR were Tar 
weared WATT MNT ASA Tatra AAT ACHATATT 1 30 | 
way sirfe utes at ara fafe-aaara tar & usp acne fear qq 
erg fare Sa: Saat St orang at Ue srs ten Sharer (AeA tar 
WAAR) Taw a am faxzit J 
weared frat Wars, west arasrat vie cat [ert 
Quy et neat: wt freed eT MTT Tt Bt I 
SGT TATA Ht STRATA H Yeo TT HF sigs ® Mra SR WEN 
Fe Ter (FST RTT Va) BTM aM Ws WEN A Ta Van & cfr 
farg Sh 1 
rare Aaa aa afe are faftrer afaPater et rer 
TH: MarHTaaay fea GH OR we ys fem: wares: t az 
ya et fargo aa Fea ek & arafirg a cy free a st a7 
aos aim aet mes art erm | <a art Yo oes ax ETM | A 
fasail F Wa WISH STATS SAAT SH ATAL MATT (TA VCH) CTL 
aaa anfe aart ae tart a eM | stale east aT A IA VHT 
neq fag 8 ores ani a wet are (ae oe A ye fern 4) aer 
ures fara feat) | 
ad we uf fea, weere comfeat orate qexar: 
aeeae wariets atfregt ar teva Te Ware: 1 32 
at wer 4 wef ofa fem at ace erm i ga fan a ora at 
fen & aqar wast ak frites onfe west & ten an aaa Bi ea 
wast anfe ret & ek al ae Ht BraRaHM Tet F | 
feraa qf wet WT (3) 
w ferary are an arrgrat: 
afg fier: sigeet warfer & et 
(¥¥oo) Satetfergqar farrar: 1 ax t 


oftera aay 268 


ga fafa a af ven oka wet & fee sae fas & oH Y/2 
am Hl at VT A VaR Us Va A dew tla wep S I He 
(x¥oo) @ arr S aay afer Hr aEci WTA A as S| 

TIT BTA Bers Wet a wTH Thy oret aa fafawa | 
Fat SATA Tw reg weetrat st qerer Tray | 4 

ante waa Awe wee 8 cit ws sik WA Ben fea 1 sah 
fak we ven sik qi-veor & aaa erst anfe st feen fauda enti 
| Sar WS Bt TAH SATIN FH HAH SRI AP wT war ven erm 
ae fern a1 aa @ | 


FS SAT, USN WT ACA WATT 
aunty awe fafet fra afearary i 
qatey Area TaATETese Tt TA 
wredt wafer afeerqy ah sara | 3 I 
are fafex 3 geq Bien F den sre wells strarat A-et weet a 
af, ad den wet arfe & at A arr ord feret S 1 era fora art 
y are soa ae SAH ore a aa AA ais SAA 


eat aft Geant Ue wa far 

aed FIY SKA WE AVS TIVE At 

aaa afaat ae fafaa ee cet Ha 

fest aad fo gay Aree ast 1 30 1 

ST SIT Gat stent S Cad 8, Pear wot ates Ast wt ett aaat 

& ore: area wl sik wee ret WH aR a} saa witht HY ae 
aradt &, ait diem wet 8 te wt arte een S ena cin & ara ara 
aA ww Soe sor aT et we & fee feat of %, sa Wy 
WRT Bt ST HTT eI 


Wawa TWA FI TyYT 
sft wz shat He afrasfafas 
frat eda surfed arerarey 
Wee Hl PTT EMA: WHT: 1 3c I 
Ta ver sete 4 fend Tso 4 set ait VRE BRI TAT 
at <sit 4 aaa & faa am areat at feean *& fae fea fos 
aaa A ufera fara aaa Va GAA atl | > 


WHET: WHIT 
we Ata aoa 
ae HAG Varn calqary, 
aes deargfa Feat Wawa | eI 
srt art Henstt F Tara Hosa A aat EU Vet HT LAT Geel 
a um fart eat | ga oe aft a qe aa Saw ares TL HAT | 
at Y Her arm z | 
at feart-at Tess erat Te WATT 
PAT: WMHT YA VAT: WE: 1 FT 1 VI 
are we (re arfe & We) wa fea BU chad SW sa UH WIT 
St Sl We Ufa at Ba wet S | VST H Me arg aT WE ay MK 
Ta WAS Hel Bla Fi aT we TH aA WLM ae TF fart 
> oreo vet feaa & Ta area fos Hea F 1 ea Ta WE Hara eT 
wed S| 
Tet WH Hear TaAT Wat Ta: 1 
aeH ary ahs eat fara agg TT 1B 
afe ee at ael ar Ufa sig sik wen (Sata geile) WATT HT 
fer qa wa gdta ath (saa oa, we ara) eae St wet a fae 
aK ak ear site fren | 
a frais wertrasda: war sfaarra4r 
Bar: wrarhat ta afwuireg fara eft ¥ | 
xia we Te af oe 8 afew (Ui si a ye BAH eit 
wet ar ant et qa es | ate Ha St at Ss aren & Var aa STAT | 
art we wat eA wR afe eita ft we ae nfs we & afes 8 1 aT 
am arm afe we at am st aa es 


sanretas afevaeay sassfie tra | 
we afte wat ct wat aw aeeaniteqa 1 4 1 
we si vite nfs we Hu aat sit gaa anit # a ant a 
THe (A a vite arg nfs ar et) arfaes SA az arn erm fegq oa 
art we am et at e- Gen aan san | 
qa frsrt-rernt wer wa ta afer fercat area: 
garry farrst cqeit facia: 1&1 


we aft aviary "hg 


faa a wet et aM a Se HS BIN AT SM aren @, ae SAA 
faa ve wa aw ae ute aufe 8 ama at saat won aarin ak 
art amet epe fa wer 8 Ae Ser AT BVA | ST a aT 
ant & aat da aw se uel wt afa see Set A stem stem am 
ant 
widipvate fer safes a waq 
ae foarfed set aft ta sfacats 1 ot 
Qt wel Hue a aati (sik gaa anh) BA we SS nfs a Ba am 
am) | asa fers wa ar afe am a yar 2, ad ae a ute anfe 
a Fern | 
fardare am Tet taf arerit 
wataat aaa at oe torr airit i ct 
am afe ae % Sr aren @, at ga wa Ht ae Hi af safe Fi 
MS | SAt we afe awr st a fauta deen HT (state am. ata 
STA UL aT ae ae aret TEA HR Heri) 1 ga fen B Mt ve at 
Ufa wen anf am aaa wart et aT 
fant qe aqges fearfene fread 1 eft i 
Tat Wet Aa: UNL ad Salat WA Het fet 1 <1 
ert we at sat HoT al ues ST are Ufa seat ar nfs arm a 
aT Sy UL a TA (HATTA) fer safe Get se 1 UH A TA WHIT 
wer a afe wet St wen Bars Aet St & 1 A fer A ae fet ara 
ei 
ad feart-gorfe 1s aTart Teacotrst WT | 
amt qt at Te arta ada: 1 yo | 
Tine We ste eft & oat srw wpe HA aA age wt wT vite 
we fara WER dear erat & Sal WER (44 al we) Gee BT 
ga sit ye & ope eed aa (3 a St HB aA) HaHa HT Wea 
se pra & sam facta var a aa A Ge wih . 
eaurdt Fe Ter Star ein yy Beri fr 
WEA Sa Hie fag: TI: Upel: Tas: 1 eek 
Tas We eA VSl t SE!S UP A seat staat a Beran | re 
a Sa So faas ase wen eri | qe siz yw a say 31ay via 
@ verat VS Ht ST Se a faa Hx ST ert | 


RQ faara adey 


fadra acen ST aay stay wea fade B Na aad she 
Bam eB wpe Mz Satz | 
eyeiss A Ween Prarie wifaa: 
 waread porch gH, frat Gat ATS: 1 wz 
we eR deer 89 wes ferara & arqen fers & a RX aT 
eye 3) sat FR Ae B tins anfe ar gen ee fra wer cham & ae 
ara eer wet fafa aa ¥ | 
Wend tart dt ae Bperat Fat Ba: | 
faa: wy eRet git Mea: vrais 1 23! 
fora wer dere wd & waa (ae) BB WI HW Ti ak aH 
wr ape TEAK Stat S (geal Hx sie QhA @ VAI a sean) Tat WHR 
aa Det wT A BES we Brat z | 
FIAT: SAIKT: We: Ta VPS AT: 
witstact aia we: unaewrat atta: 1 yx 
FETT HTS, WS SNL VT HY SGA STUY VPS Ala A eH TAT 
WR & fra Pes STAM | Ta Se HE HI ST (Maid waHe Hea 


RITA Te AeA Ve Fas HT aerae (TET HET HI AE) WH 
fore we a aS EE eM | 
qarey ope weit eps Waid WT 
we HAM BHT VpearH, Me Wis: 1 wh 1 
qe Weta @ vitiha wt sera Saal Ws (We az Het) Fares 
wT TT OT HA A OA: yisra FH ailet a wet a wR & foe saa 
sites érm i ya ® visa 8 are & fora ath rg are SH aaa 
wet @ 
ead, Facer Gar aif we erasers: | 
WeAaArT WS VIE WTA | ke | 
fra var ascn a7 we & fay faato Sex frre ara @ ! sat 
TER FM WP, BAe eK wie fae He gem) | sea dt We Aa 
atte at faa ex (ee vita) frarent & fare Sas HE MIE AF FT 
eaare: MATT: Vey: UAT UE APS | 
ae are: We feast: urper Whey AWTAT 2 ye | 
sy SY wa SB Nets FMR AR HI AS Prarer Bl TAS MK 
Brea OM Bo) WK IK Bm seas (TR WET) Hea ARH Se cary 


~ 


fae & at 4 wer wT ze | 


PATS BT AS HUT: area un aa TAA: 
ad fran 4 cared fara ge Huta: 1 ee | 
ara sife net ae ada ax Hof vec et wat fafa a fara aw 
fasn ak ada we oof & ota at fae otk wae vite act & a 
a WT Ha B 
faaty fastarat aa soit Taq 
Preah sat ate frypredt (ax3c) farm: 1 31 
he Hi fast S AM SA A FT Ga STAM Tal Ba Hota Hea 


@ 1 aged site aot fron @ often et-set & are ae wef A fen 
a afew a at 


?e auf eet fier ao eufad Paar 
meee fears we Hote fepatfsr 1 Yo 1 
fren a aaeuia at sera | ae oot een @ HF BA a fen 
ij 
ag aufatrearennd at ara we safe: 
frome’t gf wig ax ait warfeim: 1 2g | 
aq Hua SIS | Hot eK aot Her Sar @ | sae Sitvect fen 
a ma OA Waa a af fren 4 afew 2- 
frp, a Essai sy Horiaataar 
feat axfera aa aorta wataar 1 221 
aa thre, We atk wh ar ao Hora (Gen 4) aA qu sik 
le tT aa Hof BT aM - 
we gfe ta aq fread a Huts: 
aa Gass who aq Hosier 1 Bs 
fren & acd are af ASH | age site at fren & om ea 
™] afe we Hof ft fea a a4 a dt fen a Ane We sik wh aT 
ay Hora Fev | 
frengtenal q dena afsfar 
yeaa ddcrd are Wa we aft: 1 yx I 
(aq vita oof sit a<aof et fear @ ea SA Ag wT ad 
SR Sa WS Hse A Vera Bea | Set VR Sa & ANT Bel wT 


glow faara ater 
ant feafa A ee af erm 


Waa Been Fafa asa 
RM Mit AT Tet ARTETA ETL I 
qater fafa & oe 8 ord at aerer faa Se en rareih | saat 
AAT MR APT a IM He a am en | afer at fst A WM wr 
aged ita wot @ art S77 | 


safe ope fasta: erage: aferaTea: 
AAT Wer aT TyeT WTA STA AeA: 1 EA 
we Ae site Wel wT SPY! we (He A) ENT | STV A Her WAT 
wea wpe we at ga aT A aT HT aH t! Ff fH qe a 
Aga BH SA SAT I 
AMY AHA A We BAATA ATL 
IPT UT Vpeged at ysaara fatter: 1 yo 1 
We Bl SAAT AR HI TAA 3 UAT (<0) Bsa VAY ATA 
wpe we ST | SeeHt HAST Ht Ta TE H Ep! Ie A AT Hr aH 
art ve at Gen S art sy az fern arfe wa el | Fa sas SH 
ae HO HEA | 


SAT SA KATES: WATSAT STOTT: 
fen, Ye are aret Ty fa YA WAT: Het: | XW 1 
Te wT arr ak ex fr fesn 8 SA we oe eh ST HT VE Fi 
isa S| UH fen FSA Ww eat | Va HAA | VE aw BM Hai, 
Hora Wits Te qa wea acta 1 aT | 
eearar gH, we aq uftHaa Sat: 
Hat OT: erat wy ad aaaetafa: 1 I 
we fear at sre ga ed Het 1 Be BA areal Set Vet aT 
art om ey wet Bh ae SHI YA: ae wat frerait i stk wea 
at aifa saat war sife war Het al fear wth | 
wat tetet faa: WreaTETHre Vear- 
AHUA SH, HAN faearat oH FHA 1 30} 
sea va sie wey fea (aM ar ain ean fea ar am SAH wea 
wer feat) ome aeret ste | aT he aa SH VM Tet oT IR Stk SA 
oa at ee St wet ar Hen onfe A wa Hwa F | 


ge ofa aot RIS 


Eeaiswad at wet carat at ga ya Tt 
adt aot aferat oof aby atta: 1 ae 
7a VER IR aR SE S Mt Te TM MT an A aa BT 
% | qa ora ea et Sor Hr at sie ee aa aH HT SS a 
ae eared, Gen fata wrist ert AeA HT I 
Heya wader Wal TW AVSATST AT It 32 | 
am at ontqe frat @ get ek etal 8 | Ges IR sit tara 
aft un fen 4 a a SSH, Fel a seat ak Ue aS ope wha 
frareit | ae ga a ast ada ga Wa au wm sat Ga A aa 
at ert 1 at wha qa 4 tet & aro sae eam wha et ape 
wifa Stet & 1 
Ope ait at a ee fed dad 7 HI 
are ate ara EAL A A HATHA: | Yvoo) | 331 
fueafaer at fafa & cat wet a ope wth & Tre a, 
fearé aa aM saaerea Prarad @ 1 Ad att sata HT FM uxoo F 
TST HX 
feared oat weed & at VT de 
watt Hes ERS wT frat Fears: 1 ax 1 
ary aa fears @ a BAR Hae: Aa sie Sa Sra BT ST 
andl & 1 we at aeae sik ope aha & a whl & sR St Hen aT 
ad Fa ST a feat S aT Aa FI 


ary at ets ael wae area Fact 
arate wet ae fra, HTT ATT ATH | 34 1 
HATH HA HY SA VK SA KR fer H yatS F ae B serait ae 
fea & wars 4 SN efart ee Sw fea & paid F We HSN ae 
wre A wert | ga a sna qa HY Pepa Ve eT | 
ea fear e we eet wel wT SRR rare wt Oe a Tet TST 
rarer | 
arearenrera gH, wt att: wanfefe fet 
Heat wea fast 23 ast ATA TA: 1 0 1 
wa ara 8 oF: seh Ufa S ona om wt a a SE W ah 
aeent & are ue aw fer a are | eae are Delta TA Wa 
oda ser cart aa freareit | 


1 (de) bye (of) wi ‘(hd) af (48) bub -2 Deh BS 
bib bb] dbp td4bb| Ie 13h diile Bith | lta Bre] kab le Jae 
1 RR | dibs (03) aD) (0A) Lio 
(hd) bylbap (hd) bjie2p? (7) Lede 
D2NeD :1HDJP) DP balebh br) Db 
| 2h BD ilk B OBE 2 Holt b Iitih Kile [ehle Lehie 
I (fx ed b)>) bib: josh] dbp ioe 4 2 Lip Ite | 2 Riko Bb bak 
leh [Bb 2 (f Uedb|>) bile bere} dbp ide Js I wk de be 
1 8A | bpistis (08%) Jib DP looBRiIh KYA bebe 
| Bhorhsibibe bal Ibebnh> prusik a 
1 2 IWR ble babe) dbp lde> Id 12h Je Wed by th bP Ile 
@ 8822 23 | 2 Biko brs) bb ibislh ob ah Blh ojlte Birk Bb 
L&R | Bp Priby> bited BYoH Ba» 
‘pisiisbl (8382) Bydipsb) ik [eid :1plkopetey 
(oohd) EMA (cogd) IR (haa) ah (0%) Bb (cha) Bub 
IAL sbi (1k ooht) lberBeIe (Tk cok3) :balb SaKIE 
(h-chaa) :bhebyMiipioh (08%) sibikDm (kk (cha) PRL 
| (2 Rebbe kl See) b) Binle 12k Lets 
wee Indie oh OB sbiite WEE fp LE pp tudete Lapa ( daddies 
inte ee BPR) | 2 Vie ek klbb o Se ih att dille Bick 
1 oR t :hBID SID PRP Elk Wen bp¥b 
hp \ab} Dip@abd) 1rd) Laie Dip 
| 2 RR 1albK ld dbh BJP} bibb 
4 Bis Bh Bille Sl Mbp (ldlth) NP BBE | 2 Yoep kab) ph 
1 St | hs Unbje| pbs} lbh Dis |boit-p 
19 Diledtt ih pire! PR :bhis b 
| bake 
hab WS dhe bib) bel 2d ‘brb) bb 2d? ‘krb| 2b? bak ‘bib] 
Bb kab -2 112 brs} Ie MK Bib Mb 12h DID bth Diite Bub 
1% 1 Ukbeh Bjk} bre} 1:3 in’ Dik} 2h bab 
‘be bedbiih boaipb bik bb] Ieleiph 


Inb> b-ISh} BA’ 


we aft aviary Q1919 


dere gat frog freqd aes aT 
THAIN TAT Your TATA (ecws) FAT: t vy | 
area fars anfe- anit ane we sik fa an at fara cara weT 
we SS St wea A TAN) UH wea S AA vite wa & fara * 
SAT WH THAT G TT Hl HAST H CT PM (ecwa) G aT Ss} 
Aenea Sega: araf qa ana at a at 
arm, HX vHrfeed fora: eftrwetfeerar: 1 we 
eel Hl Gar WM A wa farraqeara A AeA a TA We HI YEA 
fara erm) 
qa ak ye a vita a aa ¢ ofe A wet wR sae Ga HT 
al MTHS AT 
wife fea water asa Frere sar 
Wi: waffeasre ara, wares Prarie: 1 wet 
aiferen 4 aieat arrea at Sn stata wpe ax aifesa a 
fawn 4 S71 YR ae Sik ye aT vite Ss OS sie Ss 4 i 
TISHT 
wlfetearea: wea We <ieat ATTA I 
farat aafirat feet fret arfaat wat 1 xe | 
sart arfe Uist wert 1 Se wet ST Sah we Sse fara 
at sae farsa cara ToT at eT H at PM (ecg) @ aM aT | 
(wa FA aeat Det wr ateax fora eT) Fa WHER ws a Wet a 
wats area weet fanfics He ae: 
PATATTA FT YHA TH TAT 1 vs I 
Rey oar fars se | vei vitt Ga wet sik awtfe HoT ST 
am de fs @ afire et mw stat wren fae A asa a qa sik 
IH AT TH VOT | 
Tere fefaer farat Rasarett Ga aTert 
We Mit Taha YOUT arH HIPATHAAT: 1 4o | 
Ae ga fast ott nem sik area fag at sem HEM Tae 
fren 8 apn at aay srat vite & art 21 we ape fas sit area 
faq ert | 
BpPel Tata at aE qa farat frarwat 
a ware weed ca Seat area TH fat 1 4 


* 


386 fosra ator 
sits ax afe qu sik ump ar yd @ e Ufa & ara HB sai, 
a a sik get & ote 4S a eK (Cae @ Ses oe Haid wth 
ae 8 oh) ae0 wy OA & aro ae qe fers A Tes & TAM sraha, 
weret Bt qe A aren Be Sar cha | 
BPE seat fararat 7 fare yaa 
Heer Star vat TAT aha water | 4 I . 
ST MR FHT HT TA GLAT HET Bra S| SX TA Ay HT ME 
areat fare eer chad 2 | 


Bt oa: Reefer wat ear carafafwet (224) WIN, 
wifast wera cies dead wag faa: 1 43 
aed att a Wart Aq Bw ae stat aTerafis See cara 
MT Bq WOM WH it Br cham F 


ae fart TT (2g) MATA He e Veta aq! 
ATTN Sy fares ee Ca Ae Vath HST 4 | 
A Fae HT HT LG ST IPT a SHH TI Yo He KAT | 
wet wr oxa fara ara raz | 
STAT Taal TTATRAT, WAST fers Psd 
arg ata fetat arate farrenferar 1 Qu | 
wea (aR) wes wel S 1 Tra gl yeat @ edt aadt aet & 
amt: sae fara aA FH arg sen el cham 2 aarfe saa cxa fara 
uftant frenrerat aes | 
qe Farrar aet TEs: AAferwat 
Oy farara Rae Fx YRS HA 4G I 
ast RR Us Hew el BH AK (SANTA) H Fe (WHT) HE 
ara & 1 et wet ar en fers casi a KH TaHl Te FS HE TTT 
aa 
fara aa a fered AT AMTSTHSAN | 
Tearey farehea ay wed adshra 1 yo t 
we we ar fra gat ve Hwa (Aa) Ht WM sa am a Fe WS 
aed 1 Shit wet ar area (sax efart) ar dher (ge uf) sraafe 
array (farsa ar apy a wy et dt ae sie faaé qa 8 1 crit vet 
at WER got ate fare arr S sift er a arveca Hee F 


ne ofa aoa, ZW9B 


ster af saert armed war: 
Wea ASeIes TAHA WE: 1 Ge 1 
HH SAH SA 2 Bie (Ko) HAT TH Bt) WE at aen frst am 1 
arat afe UR si & Sel SIM ae GAMA Hear 81 sqaqea F 
aaa afe up ve ater et an 
ah faast we qe cat a aera: 
wa @ Uafea Sr He Fa Tt SET 1 4g 
gan faact (arta d-geat sik aa & dt) dt dt sa Tae Het 
ara @ 1 erat dfe ara et @ wars Heer & 1 sae 8 CH aha 
aa St He Ta Hel TIT FI 
wat farat wat Be TET A Bacher: 
faasy: wrarater:, weer wafer TT: 1 Go 1 
atl ware Gar a vei A Tat aren We afe wa fara aren eT 
at srt aan efaror apr gen fara fara wel Sra @ 1 Sa si cfarr eri 
fas arrar di at cfamr ce wat ae sat oT faa Era 1 BH (HT 
fara AST St & wre) Tax cfary art feenstt Haat ero z 
aber are feertara whe ga, ecto woh 
aera Att ME Aad: TTY Aft: 1 eet 
Q vet A arr see atk wr cia & ae sa & fae aaa 3k 
anal @ deer wl fate wel oT aat e | cen & wa aM aA 
fag dt ora sit ad deer ores @ fet wen | 


Teqasetes ar she stare gta 
witty feat Fer weed za AT 1 gz 
greta srard art wet wr sien sist sata 30 HT TH sar at 
TOT Tel HLA A std: Aa sik AS (Ta G HA SA H SN Bis Aa 
q | 
aarte ahta AA earaeaHaqat War 
ukeem fred afeat witqet 1&3 I 
carta afta ara & fee cea ait aa Wee STAT Sasa B 
amt: afsart & dire & fee a4 eae a FH Het @ 1 (Academic 
interest) . 
Det a ata frraar— 


20 fast ety 


ware ches fafeerte faferiy at 
tarywarter frsorett ze, waleaT | Gx | 
fa at aeaafa aren 22 fat z, ee ere 


ert 31 qe ste ype Ht aeqy afr we (22/g0) Ht Aen S wT BH 
area vita aot 8 am fear seem | 


Weare TR Sy yforar frerarear 
Sper aad Tet WATT ATITHST 1 EY 1 
weg Wa BI Ua: fafa sais (eHaa) G AN a fren a am 
& a qu sit ye a eae afa enh 3 
aret att vel (ine we sik eft) wt afa feared @ fae a 
fa ata ar 
afa case, uftfirfh afore ater (30) sifsrat 
frearet ff afar qt fa, aa afeat 1 cg 5 
amt site oftfa @ wp wr 360 B aT AAR aafeg aH fren | 
Ten et aqe vise A ar Bs F 1 WA Ha Hl YF: it ll 
fear wrafe ener qf wen aaar 
aeadt we fata: wpe: TTT TTTTI as | 
fret & am 2A a eae ata ered & | fra var EF VEN & waa 
fan ma mn, we afa se we faa wl Peal HA W ae Bp] wz 
Brat F | 
Had AA ATA: Hea AA Hell Ha: | 
aa water ut ate geist faster 1 ge 1 
ane aife ar wet wr onaa- eA & fea fra waa ct wel wT 
Ufa sig sit Ho ane aaa et Ta aaa SaHl Vea wT STL Aha 
a pn ar fren a 
ter fais aret arent ataar 
Tforat FASTA ART WI, Were, TATAAT 1 Ge I 
arm Rant ates a fated ara oie we H SK BI ST BT aR 
fren 8 am ay & Ha (ape) ST z 
fry oy a: Ae Mea Aq LATS, Heras: 
Waa tae feast Hes: TAT ASAT 1 90 | 
ve fats am a od Cet WH SPS TST FI WE FH GM aN 


we ofa aetay eR 


fafa ors a Ufea Tet MW We @ She TSM Fels | aT Wee 
at are oi ot fafa H at sR sia & (GEER H Vea He 
GATT ot) 
Wa WAHT: CATS Aa WHat 
THAT ART WTA, ATT SHS 1 RI 
See AM Sl Wa wa wre are at Gt: GAH BOY! a 
WAH F WAG wl pe Tea Fare et YA: WE Hl AeA HIT | 
ait fe saat Ho TAM SU 1 ae aK a SA G araafe aa 
wT STENT | 
Bread, Te YArcaT AA Aha Aaa: | 
WS VGA BT VT TEM Wa: TL Ft 
We sit qara ar am- aaa geal G ax SAH arer saat afa aT 
afa yr (wedta) ert Bsa: TTA WS HI aM Hac Ve fa sr Vt 
Frere Sra & | 
wae fare Fees AT AT: WATT 
Weaaratd Bet ata fee aaa: 1 03 t 
ae sit afa ere afer et & arr ae Gee Haat Wet F 
ae Fe (wR fa ¥ gan fea on ary) & aaa fet ae 1) aT 
var & aS H gad qaa wer aed set 2 
wead Bh set q wed frre fer wat 
afe STAT Tea ta TANT TANT: | ox | 
qa ak ype ara at om Fe-qa We (a we Be) & aa fautia 
fen 4 wera eu fa & size aaa fen 4 aera De wT fa sea SRI 
at sry fag afeaT arpa eae sife ar aaa Parca ares | 
Awa ToT MAN: Harfad TI Yrs: 
a wose Fe eared aTeaiiers Ghee Ara: 1 oy 1 
oat ae atk Ye A RM aed aT BT & aa STH a ea fase 
awl ay eta & 1 aet wast sife aaa vfa qe a ta we & af am 
ara free arat & | 
fara Fe sf Beet WT VAT BATT: | ‘< 
afe oat fees eret aterfe yagi we 1 
ane sit we ot afd - afa sik oe ERI BE a HI EHR 
a sad we faa ar aa a cae anfe aaa a fast ae at ae 


RR fasrt cio, 
franca @ I | 3 
TU A WR HT WATTS A aT - 
Tat Tae Waa aa Set Ga fea Aaa 
a DH HEAGPH (990/34) AT (2v) FAT (U/W) 19 1 
fara waa dna anfe an wel a ae & ara uis sist sik 
we BAA Bt Sa Bay Ht cas waa & few aes St yea ate 
(\990/3u) BT ev S aT SH TST (ye/2e) AT 
porte wt Acer wivett farentaa 
HAE AHA AS Tea fasfsray we | 
are ofa wel at ay ata & fara ay car G eT | ae 
we sit Te We A afd sat HT Ue AT SIT 
Weata SA BY et Lat A VAST UH TATA WH Go V WM HW Ta 
Tart Rat (IRA) fare SA | Sa aE sk aN we + AeA 
ufa sat & art S71 | 
We awit Fey aC Ten aT afr 
weg areafe aeara By afeet farserar 1 we | 
ee ee ee ee ee 
an ya ae wea & et anfe wa at Sa wre HT aerial (fafa 
wigs) @ TOT He FSM (3¥3C) A 
TH TAM A Stat WE: EAT TR AMAA: 
TARTS TH BY fest grey cist WATT | Co | 
a SH Me HI AY SAA | sik Taal wat fraraiay 1 gaat 
ATA Oz ETT | 
ae a TH OH SA aR Tae yeT sik aifewn fran | 
qe sit Ww & se HT 
went aif at qarq gfe Ye weed 
PRY Ait TA eter TY MOT fe AEA: | ce | 
at at vat atfesn a at cigar Tan Yo Pare 1 7a 
orn sof em | Htfesat at ue pM we Sra Hef A aot AQ a Ha 
el a AeA AT ENT | 


ax of Tear eq We waTEAT: 
ee TARA Wea YA: 1 cl 


ye aft aviary . Re 


(ata @pe Ths wes az uAH fa tad, Ga Wet aa) va Fey 
aa at Te a anil ge & yea fa sae SM aK TE OH BH|S 
afa ak we at ep]! fa ARK @ aM Sh) We Gat a RH Be Ta 
am Sf WN at Bpe vfs art a art Sh | 

Peis ws wre, were, feed GX Ta CTA: 
SAT FAT Hq THA ST METRY ATAAT | 23 

Fa wet aT Gets (dts UP serHy cA SB afew UR TEAR 
see Fee | HAM a GVH HH TEA H TSH Ge Ha HSN | aH 
a feta om or aaa aa St ST | 

SM Waa: Spel Bea: Wepa: Wafers ar: 
Para Wea: Be Als AeA pel TAT! cv 1 

WT: Te Ae AS arg I oa Pepa afore (faa ar 
ait So 1) are & fafa vig @ Ton ae vey fats vig B aM 
oT UW We Bpe TA sry VM | FA sty aI Vata ST He VAT 
ait St Oe & Wy HT MEHR BE A Bp|) Ala aera ST | 

aeore fates att gH, Ia: UNL aera: | 
Tatra: (423) ATTA HATA (GR) AIS Taffeta: 1 cyt 
aa men at fafa a yfa seaarea & fafa ora or eperg Frere 
HL TAH TAHT 7/423 ACESS SAU AT RSS S/S Ga 
apt afa oret & | 


fafa sai carrer ary aber afasweare 
meray: feat ar afr eq afwepat 1 ce 
gi ven fafa @ fafa am at dhe are afa ae @ oe sik 
AWM Aa set wet at afa fag ert saa 
VRE T Hares Mi I eH fey wat 
ar ae faqa: Ve fea, wT A Wer ce | 
we sik Tare wet Hr ee Tee EMT | ste ae sk Tea Fa 
Te FIR Us fesn 4 SA wR saw se SI fat fern F SA RAM 
erm | 
ary aiey fered ary ala Sar THA |B: 
at afar fexitrat aq darife we: BPS: | ce & 
ae Wars utara & fa Soa eK EMT | aH A fart We eA 


Rew fas eduy 


TM ary ak ax a Tal We eA WW Uhesa eK eM URaaE & few 
BRE W- 
IT Hen weseqeearcal fag: 1 
Wa eredtd Were wre: ware fatrta: 1 cet 
siret safe wet ART We aT TRAN wee & elie oe get a 
wae sifere Prme Bt (See eT saftras af Fey A TET ) wT: 
ye fee & ast aie ufers fen 8 ater erm | 
Heart cH. wt wernt safe Wee: | 
fatwa tafe: area Fz TACT: | go | 
Tel a strat ca eH SA FH He St SAH Aa ERI Pepa WK ERI 
atfratt anfe vert & ya sik eK onfe & aq wae (AeA SH TE) 
afa m1 area erm | 
Se gard warared aa wftrea yaa 
wreasa fot felt @ Ga set TAT 1 ke I 
rey & ofa a ae G We aa 8 as oth ors Vel wT AT 
qe Sah | ak vat az 8 aan aw fs aah) a ga & aera 
fea 
erste fete ararsateherereraat WOT: 1 
ares west wadl fea, qa fait afera: 1 ez 
oars & areht fear ¥ caitie aor fax saat feats fee # 
afry farg @ difere cert Bh) acm 8 ax fara Fem ow ST aT 
(qa) im 3a fen Ga wea F 
award: cater ary: ward: tae aifers: 
warasa afada wa: etary, Ferry 1 83 
ae fen ga ares Fa Rt A St ear HR Hea BF Bel S Uae 
3ik tet arfere wpe eK stadt sarah feen 8 (see a far at aH) 
eit t 
We aa Be Ah aera eaet Ftt 
Fa Wert qarsa wet Ate fers | ex I 
ArT & RD fargsit 8 wx fora  yeq aH tat we farsa 


uftfa at fara zarat ot Sredt @ aet @ ve a aaa ar Pts sik wat 
aaalit | 


qemMeae4ragy aor Wz 


qi F< aKa & Geeta, wi aa ana & scared afew aq 
sie ex 4 ASN aT serait | qa sik ys FH ae dem facta Fa 
a erm | 
CPS BX AA AA Tray aePATT | 
Tener yates Bread faxes TW yz 1 
aeatas ara gi at uf a ae Ha eM WW We & fora 1A 
HII H sna aw fa @ wera 1 
afrrer vat afar at afar wed | 
arerareartes art wre art ata fe 1 (43 I 
wa a oe ofan 8A ww UE Hai a aren ta FH TSA | ea 
yf Het Wael Sa aaa wa BT! 
WAR WIVES AAR Hear were fara: TA: 1 
SA WAM AHIMA MAMA FTL I 4 | 
wa ofrs F wea we oe efa uf anfe 8 « ufe sear va aT 
OM stream | ara A 3 Uf qerat Tae wrha Prareit 1 ga wT 
H are WEE SL TTS Aaa Ske Sara rarest 
| arrtarer Far ART | (x) -T (4) FT CG) SHR (0) Sa (c) 1 
ware, fret VST TTA qa T 1 yy | 
Ta WSR MH, We, 19, wh sik ane aw adie rae a ST 
PUTA ¥, 48,9 st ¢ A aT ea 
ACHAGA TAAM CAA: AAAS TAHT 
Taal CUTEST Hr PASI TT TAT | GE I 
We Hl SATA A Sse TaH ST Frere | FA aA & fora 
TA Tea BTA HT ASA FP BT TA AM (SAA SH UES 
are) =n a 
CM Aeha AME We Tey Gay | 
Aaa Aa Tare qalsedtersay 1 yo | 
Wry ef WwW at sist anfe wa eM ae UE HT wa ada aM 
am 1 ca efa @ wert wR stadia HI ga eT | 
PATS WERT WT aq aTaaTs YE: fears 
Wa arfe wide sate THA TAT 1 4 | 
We & sraitea ga wl sen a are ta at Ae Ver Hl WE 


* 


RW 


ara &) seafarers vf @ eae wr Ga HT one ara eS wer 
arom 1 tf a sifee ce wa wR ar wa 4 qa a aren sie 
STAM | Oe ERT STAT TE 08,2 STE fore UPR HS Taw srTEM 
sera A wet wr Aare fear a tet 1 
A ter srerer Herfreafer frat: (g0/v3) 
UPA TS, FT: BIBT (20/E) RAAT FT FRE: (GIG) 1 4G 1 
ee Sais eps WA a SAT 2 UPR A- 20/2K 
(SeHA) % BHT Ax TATA -¢/uR 


PBI B FT (Vol Ay AGE TrarfeTh:(¢/ xo) 


YsaeagIais TRIS (ei) AISA oes: 1 ko 1 
wmaaie - deg ATH 2,20 TAM A TEX UW gIRo 
(SeHpoT) 4-3 ™ -S1Xo 

ue ” ” “Io 
&-9 ” ” = Ble 
PATATIT Sa at | Tt 


Meat WAS THT WIS AAS MSTA: 1 GLI 
Sa 2 @ & Usa F Gt aie fea Ean & TAH Feet HH A 9-22 
uit ¥ Aare Sn Fe 1 aE Sa } ects ae F foray oT gat z | 
va ufars 4 ter we Ta & UPR VerHL TAHT VET HF TAM 02,2 
anfe ufe A sare erm | 
Uhh MYT TATA A: AeHATHS: I 
aie: Ets (30) CAST TeeaT fagar At: 1 VI 
Fas ale Gepd Ua H signe Hl ais & ara B IPT HW 90 @ 
a 24 we a afsa eri saat anise afeas Ar uw say SI | sik 
aa aa eA & saa eer @ wae Sais eM | 
at ye Taq sate Taq Te: 
forza (23/0) foleaet cat (23/2) 
ated: (ree) ferarfea: 1 €3 
sat ver sera F geeafa ST Aart 
are depa te, kek UTA 88:/29' 
; RRR ye RR 
Ako, RRR’ 


we fa actay, Wu 


qe aaa on wht: wa aise 
ofc fryst (23) Her Maas TA ATI Bu | 
aaa att ae AM FH fas a BH Rs ST (200) GT TUM FX (232) 
a am 2 W Bpe cea & fae HS ETS 
Uae Beata wae TT HA: 
AMMH, MEAT AAT Tg: 1 ee 1 
aK I ane H i at ae, aat qe sik ws at ad qosa FH 
gd @ vas sit ofr a frig era 2) fa ar ee Feit eA oR 
qa sik Use a eK dt afa eR ak ga eR aw fen Ht ee fen eT! 
after & ware aa a eq F et tfa fare erm | 
ant wernt fact: wEesrar ate Pet 
wraraed TAT Tee TRaTed We AeA: 1 go 1 
starfe arr wet st farcor & ez shter vip BY Brat aet feat 3 | 
att: Bran fare wz cur Te wee Vig aT fare Ht ATH Bart KR ora 
fag wT tart area er | (Rip ama SK We UH te wR feat | 
wah ures usa valfeod A! 
ge aay ad are wiafaay t ec ) 
ware Ya A st BI Sa UH WH GS HA 1 WH Hea 
at Were amt ux fae S71 vigeit Hl og stk dren waar Taal Tae 
FATAL HLT | 
We ares Bees Ad HT Aaa WATT 
wares rt Gar vita fray 1 ez 1 
ge HIS We St Ad He A Blew Wes we S orn rare aK 
(frosaifaer fafa a) ora oarara & wig G Ut sie UH ga Ga | 
pene, Faaa wre, waa ahr a: 
fafera =x Were ater tawt FAH 1 Yoo | 
za aa 4 fea fee (foeafeen fafa o) car wx feast a 
qat a atk ara vat Gait | 
 Teeaefer arere arbre asriteat 
ARTA TATU TART BTA SSTCTPATHT 1 or! ‘ 
Faw We We Wasa & ee He we ee wha wn fara az 
Tea Srean woh AT a aS ST SMT SN | afey shyponers wef 


A fear =o | 
aa or ert | ) 
SPOT: HTN BAL AMAT Wet war 
faa ede few, Te Ft We WAT 1 2 I 
actgarn wt feen cfamt wifa & efarmr sik oe aia F Te 
eri | gaa vet a werk (Sat aT eT Sha A) aT sitSse (aT HIP 
®) & siqerests Bram HT ST VIM | 
chai tarat weet qa BPaTT 
ward Wars fer tere art fas frarza t 903 | 
aa Sx tafe Ta Tar w Text fem F oray YT ara 
(xrerreat Ft) ott ox fare SA arr (Career) AST A Tae ST aH GST 
ast H cfarr Ht ATH | 
qa ant a a anterer we dag wey 
aralfe wre, HUTA APTA TPE! Yow | 
wrt af ¥ qarent warax Taw We AA A saa vig ST z | 
fara wife tt wea S| 
we fas ye ora 4 wea HR TD fag S ues am - 
wera, ta Ufagatot urarat wa areyete | 
qa Wa WA Sad Ta: BiG Ferarahe 1 you | 
te faq ofr Hore F tet wR AaTaferg @ ud F aie cae Ca 
fe fra tara Hae ote or Gard HI Hatt | ae Vast fas ST vig 
aT Baa rT | 
qed Suiariey eaTeT Beer a: | 
aren HHt Be sea faafrar 1 yok 1 
ere ee en oan meee ae 
aay raat Ulara Fadl oe cream | 


am ara welatae fade WaT. 
siged frarares fra: rat Feat 1 gow 1 
neater a wee H att wet at Ray] ferq wet & we & ae 
SAAT UW Us HT AE a Vip Misa Saet fear wt 
Bram ay Aare exitrat East 
seer wararat Wfeat TX Aat TA: 1 os 1 
BATT S STA THM A HA Bl AH WaT W FSA aM sari 


| 


we afa acta ; 2Z\9 


a ait we ta awa @ 1 fates ver a oe ofa a Ga diem wet 
4 (ara ged fen) afesa cam ca 1 
Test Fa farat Tew wer Yat farata at 
aad aseorrarye (2g) WT fad ee Sa SrsaeTAT: 
ARTI Faut AA Sift Weile AAT 
artoare aq taaagia aqater AMT TATE: 1 208 1 
wet far wet wr aa fare Hel eT ae faa an faeat & at F 
are 4 Her ara 4 sifa wae SA Sr asx farsg S xe WN SAAT 
vers a chad @ | Zea sik ae (Ge at fawem & wre) aaa 
we frat a Wt OS TAM chat & ary sae fers vw PN ae 
wel a 81 ea a ae eae t fH fea or agate a anatase far 
are | 
Se YRS MWerenast wee ae at 
wee wsatat naafe aferdisaf fetsser (vey) = Te 
sreae faery Tat (32) Bits et ATATS. (G40) AAT 
PAA IA HOTTA FA TAT EMT HT HY WET: ET 1 wo 1 
ae & oreo gi wen farat & fea sae frst a wa at 
Te oq Het aid & 1 feral at vey FH Ge Giw US YET 
qa ven gan a1 Ta aa YS fora Ge forg HT /3Q HM Ba AT 
ait 4@ (Guo) ABA HB aE Fat: Gs A wat aa sik wa Del 
a fart aga diet t we wae aa So Wofas wT 
ager afa fastad aq at vq Ufeae faepe art 
ferg wat Ufa: ufsarat Weqcerg AT Geet A: 1 Regt 
ata sae & Ast HT sway Aart @ afer wea F sik BT aM 
az w ara wea &, at vy Te ea Ba Ufa aw sia aru 
Ge we 
FI He Hat JWT Het WE 
stra War |r wirashafers 
frat ci sorted arerarey 
UHEMSHSAT Wat WHT: 1 kV I 
Wa ver seta & fees waga 4 vast at aR War aT 
TT ak efe A GAA an oral & uaa & faa fora Taare ator 
4 we afa Ass UHER Sea TATA Bat | 


te a na ee 


SlTqat: WATS 
q we aT aoa 


ATT WE AMT WAT aey FAT MIT 
Aeararay Arar: AAA fare fareqat 1 gt 
ara ait ae am aaa & faa ated ante anit at aha 
ada ga ofs aife, saa sre att Gea, Were HT ANT ART (WRIA 
ART SI STH We stk Fa AT aT wr fast HAR Fa VSR & sey 
Hel ara ze 
= wert qaten cesta ast: 
(LUSH) HATTA § (VR 
WUNASSUTTF: (3-344) UTS TACT: 
(s) welgo) Gif ada: 1 (4-o/*4) 1 21 
afvet onfe teri a7 gars (eiha gu 4 Fao” Ba) Ta VER 
B- 2. Bia eivy, 2 VET, 22.3. Ba HT Iqiey v. Whevit-we/o, 
& AMFART §0/%y 
WEIS (R-RY) ATA PAT FT: (19-Fo/24) 
HAM (2-Yow) TIAA: (¥-Rod) 
TATHE: (Ro- AQ) ATAASTST (2-8¥3/30) 
WT AMSAT AT (RAHI) 1-31 
& asf (G4), 9. THAT (Folgy) J. YA (Ro¥), &. ATH (Roe) 
Ro, TST (RIG), 8X. TaTHIEAT (2v3) 22. TAATHTETA (843) 
WOYAT (RI-VEG) AAAAT: (¢x-g08) HITS FATA AA, (24-293) 
TUMATA: (2E-Jow) ATEfEpysT (go-Bee/Jo) TASH FW: 1 ¥ 1 
23. SET (EY) Vv, FAT (298), 84. TATAT (233), 28. FARMTET, (Row) 
29, STATA (RAL) | . 
HST (26- V0) TAME: 
(3{-B¥ol¥o) BMATSA: (o-oo) 
HATH, Th TATE (22-2G/30) 
Sela AVY BTea: ( E-B4E/30) 1 | 
RC. FART (RW) L. FST (Y¥o/¥o) Ro. YaHaTS ( Wo) YW. TATA 
(248/20), 0, SATAPTA (24E /20) 


q re at asa 2A 


Pray (22-293) ATS WATE Ta (23-IWwUIR0) 
CATH YY: (W- AWG) ST TAT (B43. 
af-a trator: (26-33¢) FAT (Wo-o) ATfifsarhefa tg 1 
VW. AAMT (WSZ) 2B. APB (VC4IZ0) YW WATT (QRorxy) —-%W, 
ge AAT (322). TAL MAI (332), Ww. Tact (0) 
Press aa gasses 
FEST (2-ZolRo) FMT: (F-R) 
WHT TT: (3-W1R4) WET AAT 
(S-4I30) ATetarcrfarrs: (4-231vo) 19 | 
AM HOSA H AVA BH RM A HPA aa a Tart a afar fesn 
§ saat att wet art 2 
2 stfxaat (F-Rol Zo) % AL (T-Aa) 3. PHaHT (3-wiey) ¥. Vferit 
(Z-GI39) 4 ATFIRT (&. 23130) 
SAMA Th WHT: (G-R4I¥o) UTACAT: 
(9.8130) WTS (2- e1e4) Fafa (¢-22) 
BSUSAPTTBTMPTT (Roo RQ) AA-<at 
(2g-92) fared (92-23) 121 
&. sal (K-eulvo) wv. Ya (S-GIZ0) & YT FAT LRG) &. STRAT 
(ZR), Yo. AAT (S-olRY) BW. VR. TAT WIS (F-Zlo) 


BAT: (RIN) ALATAIGAM (R¥-Vo) 
SAT (4-33) FTE (RE-V)_ THT (29-22 
AUSHAT (RO-VIRG) ASCATAATATATAT (23-2310) 
AAA (Ro-giZo) =A THAT: (2.3IKo) 18 1 
23. SEA (S-RAXlo) FAA (Z-Ro) Tareat (S.az10) Ve. faye (=. 
Rlo} Wo, ARTA (Slo) RW. FBT (S_ WIRY) W.TET (S-NB1ZO), Vo. . 
Yatarg (ZkIZ0), W. TAMMY (E- 31¥o) 
BISTE (0-&2) THTAT (22%-Zo 
wefaer (23-36 ) featactincsasr: 
(R¥-o1Qo) TAT (V4-FY AT YT ASAT 
(RE-O) AMT (Yo-Glo) STRATHAM 1 Lo | 
o, atfifstd, (S-G2lo) 22. MATT (T-Zolo, ) 23. AfABT (T- 3ele) 
Is. MAPA (Z-olRo) Yes wMAIE (T-3Qlo) XW. TAL ARIE (S-Re) YW 
Yat (T4lo) | 


BZo faara edu 


HWATATET (WIIG) TATISH (RENNIVCAIVo! A) 
Tae: (8) HLET (23) Faarar (gv) TSrET (Fs) 
a faaat ara: atasacerfory 1 te 
Prafatad aeaat wr faa afar fesn ete 2 | 
(¥,%4,&, VE, WS, VC, NW, Yo, VV &, LB, VV, W) 
areal aera ar faara sax fern H dit @ 1 (ze Gea @ fearn 
wT GH et 


TWAT (2-3) WM: (3-3) VS (3 -G) 
fayat (w-4) SATA (4-3) 

BF (G-2} WT (9-4) AKT 

(2-3) ares (4-4) 

BMT (xo-4) Feit (42-2) A 

(2t-2) AAPKarht (g3-4) 

OT (2¥-2) PRAT (44-2) WHT 

(26-4) TUT (Ro-9) TWAT: (6-3) 1 BIZ I 


a. aifeatt (3).2. aot (3) 3 Hira (&) ¥. Veet (4), 4 AMATI 
(3) & stat (9), © Gada (4) ¢ Get (3) STRAT (4), Yo AT (4) 2x. 
qatorertt (2), 32. SAMHSA (2), 33. TET (4) Feat (2) 84. Carat 
(3), FaRMAT (4) & STATAT (19) RC. FABT (3) 


FUT: (28-8) AAR: (Ro—v) FTTAT (RR-w) WT (2-2) 
TWAT (22-3) AIT Tat (Yx- Yoo) Fat (R4-2) 7 

Bat (2-2) FATAT (%o-32) Fhe ACHTIT 

aearfear wba FAT 1 83 


R&. Wet (8) Ro. Yatare (x) Taare (x) sta (3) 2. ay 
(3) 23. STBT (4) Be. BART (200) Qu YerTRUe (2) WW. TAMIETE 
(2) Ws Yadt (32) a fafa aarst F asi at ea 


wraef (¢) wee agarcarnt feearafy cafes warfare: | 
Wea afifac fara wears arerat achat t ey i 
6. St aaa F ate a wet aH ot a cae aet Chat H sre AX 
aa & up Bt aa 21 we ara see aent 8 aes at dem ha 
fir wed 1 


BH WITHA: Wes Sat gar Prearead | 


We Wrest (2) Frere (2) sreraferar (3) Weare: 1 Ht 
Be Aart Ht sepia aos fare re @ 1 8. stfvast a ST as 


q Ee aM aay, BR 


a de & TAM, 2. aO-faee ster 3 pit sfafrear & aa 
am ¥. Ufect-met (errs) a Aer SY BH TTA , 


At OTe (4) faga (&) HefF )) 

afetiat: (¢) Ya Tes (8) Fra: 

TATA (Ro) AAATH (22) ATT (22) 

BATH (RR) A TBAT (8%) 1 2G I 

4, Ted -facet % RR a aN & Aa H Ga, «& aust aM ( 

aft) at ae wl ae vo. Gate Hl SSR AAs F GAM ¢. WS aT 
arnt Geet (Chalk) & evs a1 AR HT AS &. ARAT HI STHR HA 
at Us % PAM go. AM Hl STH Ea Al we, vv. val sik Taw 
ISTAT (22) Sit Hl steer AR (HALT ATS WW ct aH Aeara 
SU) H VAM 82. SH Hl STH BIA H GAM, vv. Fa wT strat At 
we WATT 


ATPITT (24) AT (2G) HHT (9) 

PISTS (xe) Fra (29) AE (Ro) ATT 

aa: at (2%) fra frst ara (22) 

HTT (23) frat (3s) WATTS: (g9) | 

24, Taal BT StrHe Arforag, AT AMT Ve. fama AT ( Ba ) 

ay RES Wo. SATA AT BS HT H GAM, we. PsI-Wen cia a 
TRS, %. Fee & aA, (a fee st Ys st axe) 2. yates sik 
BRITS eit Yo HI ae (al are cid Ht awe) 0.0 sifafera Bia 
fag SY ace at fret 22. samt ee (AR) HT aE (AT aA) 23. 
aPret- ast BT ate, Vv. Bahay AT Ht aE , 


TPT (34 ATTAAT (28) ATA (Qe) Aras Asa: | 
prfar, hfe wret fat Hara: TART 1 ve 1 
2 Yel VIRGE SAT 2G. TAC ARIE AR (SUS H SAT WH Tew) 
al asa & GAM %w ad! Sl BHR Aselt al AS Ht are cheat 
& | aaat a steer BAe & 4a A aM eT? 


ative (2) AK (4) TT (9g) “APT (9g) AT 2) faxar (22) 
TATTHT (34) AhefevEN (eq) ALEMTAPTATATHaT WAT 1 es 
faa Aaa HI ana wet fed & AS Her Bra BI 2. atfkaa? 4, 
fern, 22. garwredtt 2a fama, Yo yatera, 2%. STATES, 2%, 
earRGe Tea Yq. SUC ARIS FA Aaa HT ANT AT Aare H Sux fee 
Hs 


2 faa win 


TH (Re) MAES (22) Pram (vo) fr (3) Barat (¢) ETT AAT 
sifeea (9) feet (23) tearat (2g) Fara few afeerat: 1 Re 1 


R%. RIB, 22. AAT, Vo. HAUT 3. Hien, ¢. Wt eA Aaat w 
aM AR aaa He ae Hw Gada, 23. SS, °¢ W-sAwHT AM ART 
aaa & ga fern az 


fart (23) Sahara: (0) Gare YER HE (vx) WE (8) 
ATT CYT: (to) YNT AAT (2) FAUST (RI) |feVMT: 1 Wes 
23. afer atk srfafr (0) aT am a aaa ® ufsa FBI vy. 
Ofeh atk e, steerer ar ArT ara ve FF 1 Yo WHT BT AMAT eT 
et S Sie Tara | afr FS 1 Vo Vad, 2. set sk ze. KRIBHA 
Bl APTA Aaa BH afar HF | 
euleats Brerat Anta Wada: (2x) 
UHC AE ATATAT (8,8¥,°4) FASIMOA H AAA: | 2 I 
Q¥. Wake aT ATA saa HOT A BG. sal, ev . faa sik 
gh. caret Fo us St a Ba: FAS Aa she Aaa GH A ws se 
adi @ 1 amar wT a ga ait a, aaa HI Ya Bik WL BIT | 


amare fataared Yet, HAM AMA: TE (g) Tait 

(2) Wea: (3) AAA: (9) Sarr (2) MPA: (19) 

* BST (C) Aray (2) fara: () TE (8) 

WT (3) ATST (Ww) Tass: 1 231 

arraniatt et gent farsa wen (fate 8) wet sit & 1 8. stfeartt 

(&) 2 Vt (2) 3. Here (3) ¥. Aferft (9) 4. APT (2) & sist 
(9) \9 AFR (¢) YT (2) 8. AKAM (¥) Ro AAT (&) RR. TatHrePT 
(3) 22. FAT BST (x) 23. TSA (¥) 


STAT (19) Thee (23) MT (2) fara: (x) 1 

Te (\s) TAT (4) TTT (~) ATeTa (x) S aa: 1 (gx) 
aria: (9) UraaT (3) Atft sar: (3) Hat (x) 

afar («) awa: (3) dfs cares: | XI 


2X. Paar (19) 24. FaTal (23) 96. FART (2) Vo. STARMAN (¥ ) Ve 
STST (19) 28. Wet (4) Ro. Yaturys (¥) 2. TRAMS (¥) 0. SPAPSTT (Rx) 
2. AAT (\9) VB. TST (3) Vv. VaHAS (3) A. VahaRGE (vw) 2% TAL 
STATE (¥) Wo. Tact 1 (3) | 


q me at ata 223 


aad (9) Grater aH aan 
facet aq fatal Aa: (Ro) 
Te YA AA TAT (9) war anf, 
wartat (xo) 3 Fraramarefemt: 1 241 
(34 we at ar ga, Fea at ee feat ST TB. Ga 
aaa a cfan A aaa saa wE aR aw faq HET (Ro) Ta (wy) 
aul ga uta witaA (xo) 
qifrars arenes acer qseet war atrata Praftac | 
yefeer Wet aT aT AA Seay Tesh Proffraryz 12e1 
wi fas & aa G ea Geet I Her svar BS UH Bret 
at oft (qada & aferor 8) cha & | St Geers ae 
sPaerg Wreaaarara AP: WrraTe, (4) 
APT Wee FSAI Va: (48) 
ATT ATHY Tet: 3X TATUAT TATA (20) 
fafenisaavscen Aft: 1 Ws 1 , 
ale Oe ATA Wreae Aaa Hl AAP Aaa H afar H aA 
@ | gaat qa 4G Shares 3Q ae fara ATT go B | 
TET AM (4) WET (&) ferer feerarearcay 
fern farvat raat: | 
Ue VE (GR) Ta: TIT MATS FT 
afaren: (23-92) MATT BTAT AT: 1 WI 
ae ynene si snat aaa & ara de & aren & da a ZI 
eral {cae Hel UT Fi eae ara Hr Arata & feraat ga (ez) 
Fen afaret BX (RBIZ0 ) BI 
ETL HA TST A: wareaf (4X) MM Post We: | 
werreat Bt (c) fie (30) fadte Tea TTR: 1 28 I 
STyR aaa aT Wl Fara FH sta Fa (42) she TA VE (¢) 
@ 1 weeea wt ft as fest BH srqare qa (42) AM FU A (30) 
aan 
wear farsa: Hoar Wat (3¢) BeHlscafed: | 30 1 
wees & yay” at Gh oR wrote zara @ 1 Perera Ye Qo Ter 
wR we xe” (ge fas & ara | 


Rv fast eduy 


srfatrattiae Pirie yer a Weary, 
Ed YT aa Tea: Waraas wept afeaer 321 
angie vert ceil ait Yea ara a Sh gat an wer 8 ae Ae 
rem S| 
TTR, TA, AITeTETAL (414) BT AW WT (yey) 
Wea: 9g fawdred a qa: YT ECTET 1 BVI 5 
GOTH ST TT GS MEY ey TaN Tet fae aA (G) BF We 
Rea HT WT - 4 
cattraf: (yay hear wx fergs (23) wary: (28) 
wafer: BETS (4). ATTA AY Yor. TIA, WHAT | BR 
GR” SR 22° Ter Parse (gg) B 1 Tae aaa a SferT 
ART SY QANH HT WaT eT Ta Bd woh wer SyAT-R | 
TATE (QJ Sarat aca: TATA THYSE ATT . 
ey AY ATT We: PaPSaaTisT (a) Wt Be 
ay. Paar TT SAC" St GAH aagiaes aT s | FAH SAE 


at gf Wl Sey ATARI &, age Sua a eee 
z1 


PASTETET WSATH (G4) AAT! TSATRA: (194) WE (4) | 
Sferorerayat at Wes: WERT: BPE: 1 By 1° 
e ara ara otk si agq-ari a ga fast ® wari @ 1 sai aca 
Hl TA WMC I Yo Al AA AY HI TAA (¢° ue’) B 1 seTeA' aT 
al Pa Ry ste <P WE Ou. | ga SEY Ya HT STi Gee 
(a4 BA A ASA, WT VA A eyah) SWI W aE eHE AM | 
gaat (xc) fawarenes qervsd faegia: | 
ameter Feuer (22) wt gat Sut TPT (eR) ATA: 1 ae | 
arTeT aT Farrar (207) ga (2B) BE (8) Tha 
TTS fewer frais qo tepht: | 
TTS Ya: AMPA: WT 1 a9 1 
ae fara art (¢”) & 1 Wt ferard SeeT TNT BT YT Qo” HET 
St (re Vea A seg at eee ad are? a) | 
WH ATT Was (co) whe Uferara feretert 
G WafrHaT (wR) VY BaaTEHT hay 1 yW 1 


qe ANT ae BBG 


apfet Wass (4242) FareH ard a fora ferafo 4 sprees aw 
gars co" Her eI 
Arafat (9) Tat (93) TIME ANTI HTM (29) At | 
ZBisat Urad MATT (goto) MTA TAT | 3 I 
(fart ferrites ¥) acest ga e3° den speci wT saa 
am aut co” Her 2 1 ant faara chor & aaa eeee $8) Hae 
(9) GIFTS Ww 90? HBT 1 staf (go Wi-w” Fo’- WR WY) SITET 
ga ek Haag we yer wR ft OF (WE: BA oT BI 
anrey fara (23) WT aeet itHTas: 1 (929) 
TET CATR FAS ATARATHATATT A, 1 (24130) | Xo | 
STE HI Cio” TA Ae 30? STANT (Pasa FeRafo)s aaa at | 
ant ar faqa 23° (93) Fa aTERL BH wee ad ar uftada 2 1 (gcee 


$3) 
wate aver 


wate ya Mie TAT TATA 
TATA TaTetat oTaeaT fHaasyAT | vz | 
wert Sie Bt & aren aah Hosa wT ga yal ara 4 vet Her 
Bl dene say aaa & ste we gaat feafa & a FA Hea FT 
qafiererant, Wen Ct AS WAHT | 
ae wese whe orm fara TAeHTTL I RI 
ser fern F ud & of wt ace wes (Aa TMS) SI are Tad 
AUSa aed eae cham @ 1 dfem sik ga FH aafe qvsa aT aE 
GST HET WAT F | 
aeqaiard tart atta: afer aa: 
— afestseandt Gwercrarctirn: feta: | xe . 
waft qosa Fo gf at ace a set eat tar chad & sae ah 
_S adfa an era | mifa & dhe afer, eet es 
& Ufa aif 2 | 


. Wa was wy fers 71 
Weready efarst wer faery yore: feed: 1 we | 


eae are at wef & see fart shy HF sits Saha chert 
qe sity gered oh cfarr gore feera & 1 


BRE Feet aio 
PUA CA Salat Fore: HE: 
Tl Gar seerat aeareary Fay 1 vy | 
yore & SR A wy @ ys sie eq HH fHeA aa Ga Wa aa 


eriha aera a fora tara WW HoT Sal Aaa (a aie) 4 aati wvsq 
yl AAT Se | 


wert Teas FHT TSM (3g) aA fed 
aretefdvad: (23) wreat qaea ad Fad we I 
amt yore otk wy fee of & ee sin RT Od wet & ada 
we F 8 1 Gee Sk we B23 Sree ye A gee 
Aa ATG (4) TH Uhre aah (8) wa: | 
aatserte (2) aferstsenrsy atifadaas Bia: (2) 1 xo | 
yore 8 4 ores we F arf, af @ ¢ arate ve sift, aif, 
a ¢ area yd afes an afes 8 ¢ araia wf wife 2 | 
arearay ferat wrest TATPHAISHR (19) HATA | 
ar aferetfa 3 fear aa get Ytaa: | xe | 
seadt ais a oe aoe od, afer & free aed Stet aM AT 
ata a afore & chaat 2 a aa aro creme | 
W Aer Wane Sfe Hels: weer | 
waren afore: frat SE WAT: 1 eI 
ae YS ayy wo craw aet B 1 Vea MT Het Tae | (afer a 
9 met Us) adt seal we arose & 1 eae fara aA g fame et 


afa an fara 3 fawon sik aret at ant a7 (ante avsa 4) fare 
ara ¢ fame & | 


WS VAT Marqeamns fera: | 
TRAIT Far A Tearat WH (o) WATSTHT: | Yo | 
FA ART Tot HY Gea Co GA F Sd: FAH HINT fo VA | 
TEAMMATE AT: | 
Wy FarTeat Taste AfaHTaT RTs: 1 ye | 
Fa Yo UT HI Yloo G TUN HL faral Jaa (AMA AMA) stq @ a 
24 R TT afee Uri Ta gee ott ag & yates ga (fees ze") A ast 
a ie Aaa at Ure snfe ya ert | 


q we amt aca BQIW9 


wate Hose ar eater (x3) BTA Hishe aq, 
arte Gere ference (we) TAT 1 4? I 
aatt qose at qt @ afar fen A crag x3 Sreist BA W at 
ara Han atkt Ten Ura A saewt feof He rer qe crag (we) aie 
chad @ | | 
PART ATT FSIS: (UR) Hal: | 
YASH TSA (42) TART ATH: (43) 1 43 | 
wd wl whaagd @ ga Wa ga w sat BR (4a) sie 1 GE 
SHI (GR) TAT YORAT HT (GR) TI 
am UF (4a) VATA: STE (go) Caray | 
BTR (82) arses aCe: efe (go) UfiraT 1 uy | 
aifa HT (48°), Sif wT (go), AIT aT (82°) stk wha wT 
(fo) SR WK cram B!} 
adert a: wrt dfe Tea vaaet 
GAR aE: CAT AYA MATT FATT | 4 | 
afc wif a ais a ek uder wart w Tt ae ara (faa 
ait) 4A SRT ga av’ WWM 1 ae ws TT WIT eK 
GQ AMT at HPA Ws” He Ce’, Bd: YI ko B SAC | BaM |) 
Bape art Aeshor ger afe wer 
TST Tea Tay feratat Prat aa 4g 
aafeat A wete at ope SA Bel WaT Tet Wl, a ara ata 
FW UW SAH MK Fae ZF | 
WATT VHS Brat Ae art Wears t 
cartes Jeet Tat AferdsTA: 1 yo . 
aa ait seg el op]e SIA Gar war Set B 1 attest anfe 
Aaat a aha wer seer 8 1 aah nese at ria ax aa anit 
sTaaTy edt & | 
Weree UNL Tf: wre Yet we ferftret 
at at frfurat yat qarar eefararar i ue | 
yd srarat @ aaftaesa at ufars @ oe af ad 8c Son art 
ei RAR (Sas) ae nha set Sate 1 oe: ea a AMT FI 


TAA AES ATES AST TA: 
acd afatraiod sa weprfee Ferd 1 4 
aa, arrest otk waft nose an sraaq dee ga a faut fee 
Feel & fae wer ware 1 ae Be aya & few (eeee F) & faa ss 
ferat fazer (94) ATA: (x) @ Fa WaeeT, Wa: 
Trey Fe cart Gar ara E FETT | fo | 
qa ae (Sa) ar fares ars fea HT ey aT (a fase) & | 
TR FA AT Hl WN areafaw Ya was el Ft sta: ae faqaqa 
al ox wet sik ga sit gu saa ae Gta aT F | 
Hae (cv) Ferrata frase aa qa: 
Aarfea Tere Ulery (29) WATS 1 €2 1 
Sxa Ya a wet aa } us Ax (fords qa) @ feat (x Ww) 
at ait a & 1 ata: Yadt aaa areiret ga wz ava ti 
TWH AAR GA WK CY Hel Ad cha Z| 
TAA Fat Faron (22) fees (9) Wet Wifes: 
Tae (Qu) Tae eT Tas Wea TATTATT | GZ 
FAT YAY aeirear Fa wW WI H aA, we ya aaa feraca a 
yt aa & war sata chad & | yt: faa aaa aa Fa Ww 
art a qa st A cx Ho aa cram 2 | 
wa arr qat Afe qerhfaa tia 
qeafeesat TAH Seay eT: 1 G3 1 
wet var afar qa at afar ers & cnt wt aradfasw Fa BK 
& art aes Fat B Fa wt RE Ya Chaat B | 
stared fafaar Jar, ATM, Bret Tes: 
datareata carat verdt aa are at 
at ae ver & 8-anig, arcie otk Sait aferat a saa 
TH ft A STH Serer aaist sik Hci - 
ait fatrt vad: wert Aer Tt 
WM aren art faqagd va qq i ey! 
for ft HAE |W aH WA SM HW ST St HAM 3€0° STM 
21 aris 3k ares a am faga qa 4 aa Bat eH 


qe am aay BBB 


ARCA A ARTA, ATT ATTA: 
wre, URMTAReTs HAT are Fa 1 ee 1 
faya @ sat ar afar a a wreite sit aie A aga sraz 
ern 1 waft acsa & at a wa od cfm fern feafa (Aenean & 
aan) fear ara & (aaa fae a veer aT anfe) ae Tat efart 
fee (statist) a wa a vet fer ara | 
AMA Ye HAT VT AAA WT: (4) 
aT Wa BASS Alea Hal TA: | Go 1 
fara war gee otk wy HT RRR (qa Sida Ta) 4” ATA 2, 
We Wel BAM Wea @ 1 Tat wR we sk anife a yd-aiars starz 
WH, UM SALSRT SRT ATTA RAea (24) WOTHT: | 
Ara (0130) Tea We WA TAA: Brett Sper watt ec | 
FTA A AMT ATR Aq" 0” USS ee ine 
mest frat a Gea & | 
feroara Tet wag a arg eft Fae 1 
Treat Mia RAT ARAT TRATAT: ATATAHT: 1 &S 1 
Upe wa a GSN Hr aes eT | St ast (Ha axa sik 
faqa axa) or ari ee seer & 1 AAT wt fe a WN HT 
BR Sa ea a WA wa Ba (HA Fela sien) 
ST TAT: YAMA: BA AMT AV (Re00) TAT: 1’ 
STAM: CLRTA ATA ATT SHA HAT: 1 wo 1 
Sara HY UPS A Seay B WM HX (gd00) G ANT SA WT Het HT 
rete erat 1 ea WER Soha st wg aT Pree seM feats 
fear & ga wrens @ arate frarcrm | 
ud qa aid At amis (3e0) Ba aT HH: 
aerate faared aq (cise) AAT AParaT: 1 wt I 
ga Sa & wear ant a ad x0 sist AA A Tas AAT 
(RRoxe%) /A¥RZ= CXC” AAR | 
wiht ae weft UT ATH: GAaT aie ; 
PASTA STAM: BHAT AAT: 1 92 I 
wits week at wafeat ar siren afe fear wert % (aha F Ha 
Tel scorn) at arha aa at aries SA a 


PASTS Taal Tay PTT RATT 
arate Fast Hiha He afe fee 1 3 


sear ot are an orfere Sror B CwATTETE BeT safes aT aH 
@A F Be) | 
afe aera He Go wane anit a area fier teat 8, 
ae Heaths she SN AIAN aq 1 
feet writ Seat Vara, Brae, STETarHeeet: 1 wx | 
a STA HA AT sift SI OR aT aT ue ofa sa HA AT afas 
BAW sa B GA rat & 1 Afe aasit st arha fear at a Sas 
prem ot fee TEM | 
gata feared aq Stet ATATET gitar 
aa arr: fafa: ere art waifra toy 1 
aaiet fer A a Sree & aa aaiss Ha a safe eT | 


SPN ASR Sa RITE MN ATRL ON eR 
freer | 


aaa gate tt Har sags, fear 
afeat wa fader fedoras set |Epet: 1 ve | 
aei aaat wr st gate fen wa & vad sie eH ad Wee 
fea gan 81 et wr ee tt ope saia ga da ada 2 | 
Ter AePSl ay: Herat Rrpafera: 
BH HAT Ya YA: Upe: TANCHY ATI ww | 
Del HI sep! SK Hares a qa Ae sae ca wd Geer Sy 
a ae ga qa saa ga wa qedta erm | fire ver ant wT ap] eK 
Bra & 
WH, TaN, AAAS AAT HIATT WIL ATA: 
wheat He cad Ufa feaatt YoR, TAT we | 
wih aa 8 vast a aes Teds ek waa SAH ot sae ae 
Tia det & are (ga tien ara Rea enh | ara: sam fea sik 
aia ar ar ft er | 
wer ahear ope wife Sraiseaishrer waa: | 
We Sealed TET ARATE TASHA | 9% I 
fora aaa et ape seria att tara @ epaig a sien Bae Ta 


q ne arm aca a oR 


aet dal sfea Cem (aet SH Aaa Gal feat em) Ta Aata Hi Chay 
ape WI oa a afte sr WW ae aaa Ta LI W Wal sea 
wm sat ant fears aet om | 
Dera ferat we qe frais t 
fearfafa: wera ue erste qard | co | 
fara ae hr frat Aart & ATA AM SAA Sl SA WE HT AAT Sah, 
ar USER A TAG sik Aga H ys Hl ara fran S| We AMA 
al SAK HA Bl WE Bl Upe aft we a art saz afea fearfe Enh | 
Te Wa, (Aaa) Ga a ea eA Kaa feat & ge am ern, waa 
arf Srt WR 
Wat Nat aHNT Teer faratars | 
RAH SAT YoU HA rat Wel SAT cz 1 
sar wr (fear arfe) cea ar St Gat 8 1 UE awl By We TE 
Aaa SMT BI HA Teel SIM (WS Ta A HA TA N BAT VA Vel © 
am gan, afer wa ow are Ham em aM aaa HI Bp] VE siz 
7a % SRR FT: SRR ara Prava ae Fee SM aret Frarett | az 
a Ue we & ae atk aaa Hl He GAM ert 3 | 
TERT FH HH HeaTST WEA: | 
ard fer fre art ape wit at WATT CR I 
Sr oe UE nae Sena orate Siketny er 
an fea at fs ara at ae EFT I 


Tease BAY WA Wa AM Vaca T1 
TASH TCT Het AAT WH: 1 63 I 
saa we sik a Sat wt Sea H aA Fea TA AT ae. AA 


TA AM ST | Vel we WA BaeH wt fate & ape Ua wH si 
sat BF St HW sea sik oes HI WAG EIT | 


araterrat wel ae rey WaT: 
fare tea frig weit We FRAT | cv I 
TAH We Aaa Sead GH al fafa S seq sik seq Spe SM | 
SHH are dt SA LEA KW EA Hl Me HN GA HO 1 TAH aE 
we am fafa @ we stk aera wr Se afiaot oraz (ga Weta eA) 
We fara areata faota wiry | 


JOR fart <dey 

wa saa faa fea feast Pz wea: 

Grog: OFT Agaea ATA (VICI IAT Igo irs 

IRCIREIVOAWIVWol ATHATT Vat: | Hay 

CREME IS URN RETR S HO RAEI AGI IR) 

wa fefad (9) wae: wet fra 

Hei ahaa AATHACSAT: (201913) 

FOBT (WIC RONAWIREINON NCIS) AF WTA: 1 ch 1 
vadt, wafer, yatore sik SeeTS FA 2g Taal wT WE He HWS 
aifafaa, sect, afret, yet areue ste Sat RTE FF ty Aaa BT AT 
we wet a Ha FT aert F gady ar wet oe Fe ate 1 yates, 
Yad att after ar ait-asit ae ga @ 1 sat aant a7 ari 
TAR wa: Be SAT zs 


ATEN FT TAM Maw (es) WATE ATH Mis WEI | 
WIM (Rio) efaatraha wee Tara: | 
sraetahtte wT Hea say Satya: 
area ferret tes awe It qaAfeaay ce 
Oy Ue & ev sie A fea We Ht char HiT 2° 2’ B sifers B 
ael Ufesit (gre AHR) HI Ae a THT Z| 
ay Aaa HI WS SRI ASA SA TW, Sifatafte Stat Peat arse 
art fer Hea F | 
Le ee ee ee 
anrefiet at gecdfeat F Sear at awa Fz | 
wre, fren Sifaet carafe tke ore art artrercrfir 
B Tet Tareas Wear aha: Saft ATATA Ya: 1 co | 
wet are & fawara we carat at fearfa va ver wel wet 1 
sae oafaien atk feat aaa & Sarat dea ft ara set 3 1 otfeaat 
anfe & stfaite ora aest & at & get vet wer ra 3 | 
arene we gre Seat wet | 
sfafsarrt qerdt at rae Phafera: 
WHIM Fa pha rat waa wz a- 
wert Wears feats aan ape WaT 1 ce 
STATS F SIT FT ART Wt HT VST ike Geant Pl afasiter 


qe aT avy 208 


dram & | geret orn ver, eee 
caer feafa & aare i po Het a eesT 2 I 
BA Fa WATT VIIA e Tet Aha: 
TA BAT (Go) WT BI Beas Tet Bafa afer i cet 
We SATAY TAH & | HT aa a Ae Bra HH ste Fa sre 
H wael Heat BOT: UTA Aa a co sie Tae aM ar gen fas 
@ afar fern 4- 
afe ah (G3) Tagr Msfet (9) 
Sharer reary feera: | 
Wet (48) Aa (Ro) feat Tar 
fafa, Jeorat (22) AN TEM fesTs: 1 Fo 1 
eg’ aa cael dren & 1 yada, aaa & eft am at Yea ae 
ga afar fesn F wrex fer ge atk yatere aa art ar Fe wr 
ST area cr ae TMOG Cee sa) Wt aml Ste lee 


QRATT ATT WHAA FRAT ATH, 
@ AM (20) WNT Feat feferfeaa: 
We fafa af ver aeaai 
qet aatat dar vafefa 1 eg 1 
ah & anfe fag @ ae at anit A sax BY ATH Co eH AAT BL 
Brn aH Wet % sar fera ax strat @ fear wt ava @, anew 
% feat aera aet & (it fae sre a chat @) | 


wen za frac factreas wat: wears as 
aad ed (2) a orcad ferat Area Taiferat: 
we den frig, qa feat siaigqadq afvedt 
wt fee ad ware aod er wel WHET BRI 
(qt ata) +a wt Gera A Ba Vea & ANT AeSl VR (ste 
STAM Tet HY) Sa aHa S 1 A Ysa aaa (queafa 2) qa fara & are 
am, wanvsa FH al, ua six gat enfe ot tae F 1 ae qu ait 
wpe at dt ase & aa ufvsa er tad Fo wht & art as 


VR Gera ae we AA Vet sit sawel Hl at ga aaa A Rea ST WHat 
1 


Wel ug fe ad WHS Clem Ht ST 
HTS ACA VPEKHS HET Wea WA: | 


o¥ faara ado 


WEN dere ae afr te Yete at 
Weal Weleseaers Weal Wea 1 33! 
SH arat Care & Ye Caet ame st gitar Hr fsa ara F 
ST weres edt weret B Tear den wets we diet ofe Ta EEE IT 
area ATM Hoy a TI SMA AF Here F aM SN Hea Ga & Fre 
aed vat € ael aersy soa ear site age SH aa al ae 
ca 
WIowa Wie JUTA He WAT 
oft a= teat Hat wirasfr fas 
faart ody safes are ary 
UTAISA AHS BT (23) Pa: WHT: 1 ev I 
3a var sera & farsa wspa F Tey at VR Er Mora 
air off % aaa aa srt et fan & fee fers fears ctor A 
aaa ait we wt ofa aad sree STs TATA EST | 


SOE 2A 


FAC: WATT: 
Weaicarerars ay | 


AT TEMA Feared WA qa 
weiherfewrer Wail WGA TIT TA 1 kt 
aa Te st anit & sea sik area ar ala Se Ft Uperferere 
F sre sey Bai ee ag ae 
a Pet WaT z | 


sears wat der Pret Afefa er afr 7 
WATES AEE MTT Sa TPT VARTA | RI 
trea (ufafes) ate Ataf (ped ware a exa) ara a seg site 
arad SI WER 8 ws Ger & fad vas ary a GTA gu (geal 
a Sf ufa & wre) de sik qara- 
Teareraay Fret sas: wre wT: 
aa Afatrat yt ated qarfadt 1 31 
Ufafert of FH seq siz fara FH area aS 1 <a fea oH Wreafew 
wel STA S| Ts & fH! adi SA & Sor We aw area (fea H WHT 
H al chat F) a Se EM & SET saa SB Te aerator Atafaw 
seared wea F | 
qi foart-qateratany, varced Sagardan: 
sar: wed ariat went afc qari fri ys 
wi faa & aq - 71s, We sik wifa qi @ arf (rearfe) 
eA w ofa 4 area eta 1 tf a wT EN RA Ue BH zeq ea 
oat qa ak yw ot tfa @ afaa sm uz afar 8 ora sik wa EM 
wud FH seq saz 
sate Wat Fras wr ue feed: 
aftrat Fy werene AAT Wel Aa: 1 KI 
aet afan—aen or ait fark afe a set 8 1 tia & frwe afe oe 
SM St A Ta sifes, eS Sa oA Hear F 1 Tae: A aE a 
ae a vfa sifaar fren arm 1 etifee dt & aed are Aa afer 2 
Wea H gfe @ Ha aaa sifes & Aiea Ae H fH) ae 8, R aH 
& sta ¥ ann 1 


& 


oR fara edo; 


ad feeri-or frac: wea wet wee antar: 
way afeet: warqed ete arta: 1 G1 
wi frart * aqar- a qu sik ys Ti ey eA Re 
area Oa Si ta S aifts WAH 4 uf A sea MAS 1 Ae sik 
ye tfa 8 afae uta SF & arr tar er 2! 
ater aiferat warg urea yes arferat 
fearax wet Gat gH, watt weet {1 eri! 
seq oe & fer ga ae- wes eer Sezier Freier HX Sea sik 
art a areast fea art ae em | ga fer uf fee oH sea atk 
atat a & fet gt sik we at gate afer wer erm i oe Fi 
sea sik aed dle var frareny & fare ae sik ga MI sea ares 
eT Be | sae ae eat a ca as feat STAT | 
Heal WAST Atay Ter free ferftrar | 
THT TET fry (2) THT: A ATEPay (gc00) MPsat: 1c 1 
Wea AR SK We sna HE fear ara @ 1 Gel Hat ca we 
SE SEY are Ee See ST eT a te 
A AT S [Het BH Yloo @ WM B- 
aeprened fray Tet Ty aH I 
weewsh ay deme walets vert 1 <1 
Ta aaa & a ag S AMT SA a Ha Ha aE SPT | FA WAT 
wen an at ye fiafasr H tek ux cfr ee we H sitet aA | ae 
sa WM Fer aT | Ws sreq Ba waa vas fauta er 
 faart-aierarat won: areata sires: 
udret Verqaal aaccrarnraa: 1 ft 1 yo 1 
ste et depa we sik wf H sen & ag aw (fra WER A 
al Seq arg Praren Sa &) go S ary VaR Hreier Fraren Sra zs | 
Ufa H seq sik aret SF & fore omar we Ae Ue Ss a TAA 
Ue aw Ue BH saz HT TATE, Fare Sa & 1 aa We ST Wee 
a OA: aretier Fractal & | 
Gare: wpe fata: ererasta Wega: 
WelaTeast Har: wH_ wer aratear: 1 wy 1 
Wea Spe TRH Spe we A Gs ve wt fafa a ape aha Went 
Sa 3) Saat creas Sen Ht oe Hare F ater Far ® fee Gar wR 


qemeaeraas aiy ols 


y area B ae ofacht wore 8 haat & few wera 2 


qata-a feat Gat Bx (49) Hremerdisferw: | 
Spratt 7 sxe Mtaerfer sffar Fert: ez 1 
FS VSR HST WeHd UPS TK TA YF SH LQ HT TET BI 
aa ae Yue KW fear ea S| saat Gs a ad ve Hires S FH 
a wm aan fears vet ear | 
oat fade ager unl aq faa oper 
wit Area Ararat fer ATT Wa TAA 1 kz! 
aert mt xt aga dia 8 1 aa: Sas ee @ ape wha Pract 
ardt @ 1 ga Spe wT a a rear at Saar feta arg Frere 
Sen | 
freiiearet wat cat sent weal: 
aeqaiat a1 ara: wrest afer Ae wat 1 ev t 
waa thre sear area ait denies am ae aa eT | 
Reeser Sti ae CemNetey GN Se SEK SY NSS STU RS ICE 
wrest EMT | 
Wareet 4a weg qed aia wader 
Th onl wht yar qatata Harfeas 1 wy | 
FE HTM SI WSs HE TA STA say Hreiist F sq Fat 
fa nfe ara dt aaat a sea area ara eT 1 aerat ar ue vfs ae 
at a ane, We atk vit Ht Re GF A Hiei H ATA A TW HT 
ye A seq aft cert Ff area ea 2 
yancedt Aa yet Bat wea WaT | 
eared Wat Aa Aer were Arar 1 2G 1 
Ufa 4 ated Sy & ued at tars ue A seq ela S sae searat 
Wea SA st sass aet 21 Kitf saat we Brew sraew z, 
sear wa at freee @ He aay set F 
A TT Pare ATA RATAT BTT: 
yy Hrerararesa at Cit TH, WAT WATT! Yo 1 
aeat pt fara ora faa Hen 4H eon Tas sq sea sik sat 
wl Bret sigt A Her ara & ait fe ape (areca A cheat B) AM e | 


od fasra ad 

ara fara fafeart dearce arte aren 

TACHA ASAT-ATSY WRATH | we 1 

fara faferar at St St HeT, VE aT sta & Sas fae at tea 

Al Srey & ey Ay aan area | 

BU (R) TAS (4/4) ATASA (2/30) 

whats (vu) faces (2) frarfearar 

(23) FR Tar: (22) ferfatan: (22) 

SUA BT: (Ro) 1 VV 

fea qa arene ard 87 /FO-VR 

2”/o co BPG VW 

27/24 23 2’=Ro 

arg wat (3/30) Wo (3) Aet (x) faferar (4) 

WIA (&) ST (9) Sida: (29) TAA (2c) 

SeaTE (go) EF (y9) GAT: (RG) FIT (2) ETAT 1 Yo | 

VURAL IRENE) UPAR RE/OM RE 

SRT (2) ABT (8) FEM (go) TAT (2g), faataait 

(22) Wrea: (93) Frere (gy) Fererat (eu) Sefer: 

(24) BRT: (RW) WHT: (RV) Besa: (kv) 1 Ws 

CPW/F UL LO"M—LAI LP-LBL_ AAPL WY VW 

We (ev) Pererat (gy) TAT (xg) TAT: (gl) SB 

WT (XC) TATA: (2g) fare (gz ) fxs (23) 

Faearr (93) Fat: (92) Tak: (gy WaTHT: (k 1 WR! 

USPARRIVY? VILE L IMI LUKE P=LIALY7eLY 

FE: (Ro) PIA (2) FH, VAT (22%) BIE, TE 

FATTHT: (VAIVWIVGI EL OLAS) SRT (RR) GAT (RR) 

ferat (22) vara eta: (20) afrarfiar: + 231 

ORR“ VALYVP—VUVI"=_ LOL YW” 

“Rol YH"=Yo YR”—Rol YO"*—Yol YO" Zo 

saris acaritsre-a faterfiret: ( 

PEOENEMETIERSECUEMIEOECAELIR (S| 

Fa Brawl (Yo) Wa Vetters cfs fi (22) Fa: | ew 

fara wt fara wT ATT (29” B vo”) aH el a ga at aE 

fawonstt St arate < er = | 


yesieareraaa aufaq ; ok 


aT BET Mahe sarees ava: 
Wraeisgt (%) Fear (ge) fared (23) 
Faerat (24) Seiea: (x9) WATT! WI 
aR Wet Sr Heist Fa wa F- 
ye - 81 Geafa-ge | qa-23 1 VA-e4 | ATT Vv 
ae Ustd fire feraer wit war: 
HTaT (gv) AAT: (22) STE fared (2g) Tet waeaT: 1 W|I 
UH A Wars 8 Heist Ta vas B- 
aa ae A -ev | ae awe F-22 
ye WH AH -lo YH Usa A -c 
verhar athaat feat arias 1 
faratera endl yr Teatorrestay | ye | 
a @ WS A AMA HI BRK Hai a sifawH BA ww ae wer fees 
am | (fa 8 Oe a aaa a aR Sait a Ha SM UH Ae fea | 
aver feeaed arte: arearsit afar: 
| PATS AAsaay svat Aft frartarys re 1 
ge Hai fed arate a uy fen A wa SA W Saw set 
BS yar &, afew Vr we aren & tar wast ST | 
Tey WeaH Ter arfres =A aaa: 
UTAH area aaah Fay | WI 
qdfem 4 seq gas facta wa 8 eM | ge Sree ois Sra 
a ofaa 8 a ae & fH sea ot GH, Ha SM HT aed @ fe sar 
ert aren @ | 
cai eeeatet xoxeen aan 
TeHISS AT TS Aq AVS Wes BT AA | 30 
Fee re ans Se oa aay ere 
Waa Ud wa De sik & Ufsage ea  searg steal AAA 
Deh qi wfrd are Tet (x20) Ea | 
Sarat STA We Ae Prato Cavers: 1 3g 1 
tea si we Ht Shree wf S Wo wT (g¢oo) B aT SA | Ka Tea 
a ateq aaa et ret fa ert | 


Wo . fasra ado 


BNA TH, SAAS A TAT Tae: .. 
BTA ANT TATA Va TT FEATTA: 1 37! 
ama siz ga, at & fern va sik anit we Ht aft & oe B ye 
Sree SER Ha BA A we Aa aT TT fer safe erT | 
| We ater at gfe arts afear: 
AACA HTaTHaAceT WAT HiiaHT | 331 
We aat oa w sam ak ta & af am a ara sea 8 a 
fen som | fea snfe wer ye Pert & Spare Wa ST eT STS BVT I 
Ure ope wa fre arnfer fireat: . WA: 
VT CATH PRATAT TATTLE: 1 RX | 
aera & seq alk ater are a BES Ue Pravet ax Sait FH ara 
wen fraraa.& | Saar Aer Ya tara & cfs wt aha Hen S am sy 
RW aaa & seq S area aH HT fea onfe aaa sea 
Bpat EPS HIPATAK afears A 
FATT VPNPSAT (2¢00) ATRTS SH ST STA: 1 aT 
aaa & ope witha & fers sik srepe wiha & fears & ae 
SY Soe) CAIN Ray SEY AT cae ara 
seaTe B 
Tee dead fer cer SH HA foie aT: 
wearer wey frat ware wre, UAT Feeret 1 3g 
SEs ee Ser en haee me ares 
wa ar vias 4 AH HATTER 


we qa fager ger artat wah Fre: 
ga wt qa Ue Era Rare Wega | I 
aaa ga 8 eerat a ASN aaa eT far we ye aT of 
SONG G84 AG MT METS I pet aS THIS UH ey BSAC 
wet waar deer fen ara & | 
arate ara & fear sears: 
T Tie HHT (coo) MAEM: WTEAT Tala BTM: 1 31 
aaa ® arate wr St sea ar sre Hreitst areata ferat Ean @ 
Taal HA WL géoo S IN Bea S| Ha Hl aaa yas fen ¥ VA a 
saat uf & aearg @, sik 


yemeareraaa aula BW 


uae eer wrentar: daterer war: ; 
gH, wee qaereq ure wdredt atfeara: 1 3 1 
Ufas FH tet we aett Uist & searg @ aT 2a e 1 afea wT 
ada aa een | wee Prearen wa cae wa ga gf ar ufas 4 eh 
a Ta Bay Hl HATA Tas BSN ar seran | 
Tad TAMA Hear HAYA: 
VEATH THAT YeAset ATA | ¥o | 
We AMA APTI HI Bey sea ya eM | Spe FIs MI sa CC 
Tea TH SA YT AA EA KR ae aan Gs Ses (PHN) He SRT 
sea AI area SM | . 


TeR, TTT WaT YS Wey ATag 1 
AUST HAHA WATT Hay ve | 
ae fern 4 fead we aeat ar afar A area et & ues Ga: ud 
zea Va B | att: Saw stat & a A wat sraeas aet z | 
foex ft anit anit saat steq aaa &, cas aaa & aa & fea 
saat sat eat & 


weat feat Aart, wearer -Aaeat 
 eetkea warerat aren araret qftat | vz 
wd onfe feat aaat or seq otk sre Gat HET ATS | STR 
siz aa sofa we aaa aed cf BA & Her a sen fet aH sted 
Tea FI 
adargd weatot fears waltera: 
at arate cree Harnfora fereat: | x3 1 
ay at wha & aqer a frarerat vers we at fears 
Prearet SI waa & 1 aa: Saw freq dea sik area srrartt @ area 
BW aam | ante seq stk seat on fafde waa ara & fer aet 
fae acer titra et aT | 
searet wa ubet ye ferart Wart | 
oa, foad Geeta frases 4 art 1 xx 1 
aei dae wet arare at fate @ ant six wet & sea aa sreq 
TAS A Ser Tall ST Sted wee STE SI See I 
yt Hem ¥ at eH foe a ara 4 fear &T 


Wz — fararst odor 


seg arat neatoraeet art aa: 
aug fear oft: aie Ge AVSATYAT | wy I 
Te sit are or fafast & Sue WA UR Ht Ae Chas F sas wa 
ara sre & fee Te aT ET HT VHT OTH Tem BEE aT Pea 
an Aes FEM & HRI- 
TF WVSe AAS SAT MSTA Ta: : 
fearen fasear aa: Were: Yaa: SpeT: 1 ve | 
ya & oy ascis Sate St AAS AM a A STB TT 
za 81 wa wh GF Sen oT er gen a m7 2a Fi wa Ws a 
Was Hl VPS Hew STM | 
Ze Asay Fray teateanesrers: 
qatar eaisty aon feared: | ve 
gan ae ¢ fe ce avscia sig sik araie F uate eer eit 
@ 1 fara Oar 8 (faga qu w) ot ae SRR Ge sk fren H aA 
mr 2 | I ta! ae sik aries FI 
TAM (G) ATM CH AT ATA Arata: 
sad: we yr fafrs We BRA: 1 we | 
(serewr ereu) fora Faq wT starter gg B, wet Ae ara F (sa. 
tfa aa aft 4 8) ate aie we otk yw - Aca & ae a sea 
ei: , 
areadt ot ahicara, fre exit aeaa 
TSA HIATT ATM Ta POHL 1 vs 
4 a oe A aw a TH tea Fora: Sa Tea 
arate Frarert at alg Sear Ae 8 | sa aa fae WA aries a 
Sy Hear eA we oft aster af GA H sre ar SZ | 
Teret WT PAM: MIT HSA TAH | 
PISA TeHTa St Hetsat FaaTeAA: | Yo | . 
an wet a oa fre Yate -weet fora 7a seq it oer SST 
@ geq ak ster are Praret a Ta HS & Gd oT a GH ae | 
anf gad Fe wa Beast 
wa TeTTaT BR TTA eq SafAwMATT t Ge | 
faa Of @ oe ysraa ys A Sst aT vera sar & sat wa a 


TEMA AT " 3RU 
rarer (que) FeraT ATA (Ry4) TAT (22) TAET (2UV 
fra qeret quar fries (xe/2e) Perea va afar: (gu/aq) 1 ext 


sera 4 qeefa aaivi-aress depa tfa | y-e fe A RR /REF 
33 u-o UA AH -22 he 


&-9 ,, = BR/0" 
At BTA area wega a 2-22 UPS A eA WT -26/22 
2-22 Ue 4, — 24"/30” 


Fate: (iad) tforqatisaTiraty (23/38) 
feva % ah: (ear fared (23) fereaqar (23/2) 


HIT TAA TI ATAH (22/4R1 1 G4 | 
quaate-araa dea UT a-ko TFT HB -gv/92 


(sora A, ¥-e Uf - BAR 
WE ay 4 7 RR Wis 
Row, Rao! TAT ATR 


wift date aaa cepa vfs 2 Bz TA A ge /uR? 

gage TH (xe/2g) FUT WOTATH: (gus Wea: 1” 

Brats (ey ees freraePahs (ect Pereaqa: 1 ee 
wiraaier ara deepak TEST A -2c°/ RR” 
be Bk TP ST A 987/43” 
(sera 4), |, YZ, YES 

3 une 4, 7 wile 
B-9 ,, — BH /o?, BU/Y? 

fara: Ua ak areT gut eafoate: (2Y¥2) ; 
FATHA (2/4R) FATA: WH (AVev) TT MTEAT: (29/42) 191 
Te eT Sarasa Mee hae -t-8 UT A - 227/42” . 


(srHeT Ff) a B—-NR,_ = Ro /4R? 
Bk WI 
Y-R - 29° /4R 


wafer, fH pe WAT (v9) Ta TT = (29/21 WATAT: 
MANTA AT: TST AEA: UST: WAT: 1 ee | 
Tet aaTRI-ATAT AeHA Tha 4’ TPT FH A9/Re’ 
(seRet ¥) re R19 ,, — W/o”, RIT 
4 Ufa Ht orahea ya Om ae Hem Sate He aaa BM (eZ 
ak oat of at aati at sev’ faaernae) * 


2Vq 7 fasra ay 


Taaay Seas HAA qa: 1 
Tasca wt Yt ALANTAMT | ks | 
Se OT A ete es ee eee 
seq ak area a Sais rare wT aa FI 
pe Kate feria eat qt Beat: 
- Fare Bas ory afc wer afew: 1 wo 1 
eRe seared Set Hi fafa-g sik we wi se Yates Fats Her 
ee ee eee 
ere feet ae SPT 
Marea gH, ot core frat a 
TAR Weare Tt wifes Tart wet 
RR a saa ak sna St ca Ht Weer wt | SAT aT Ue 
OT Al BT HT WWI HS FI A WT BI Ta 
fapet HA Beh TIA HaETL I 
ate yea Terk aft art fasts oz I 
fare at ya siz ue & afa seat at Hen B aM Sh We wat 
Sr We Ve (FI A eH) sik a Bt Ufa aT Her B am SN 
averted we Ure at gH wafer wES 
aay ofrreres art wet TI eR 
aos onfe or at a 8 sea a afin Haren aaa 4 HAN ae 
GH HY GEER HAM Bat aT | 
Sehr aan re 
VCE AT UTTAR ST ATT: | ww | 
ya & ster et vias 4 seq ot RH Ta faa SH | aie wpe 
sa ee Fern WaT a dt xa avs ane war at ye A seq otk Uf 
HY aet way S Bega | 
ar Fa wpe AA: Brest: TATRA: | 
WT Ge CMT HI: VHS AHS WHAT: 1 4 1 
(pe ca et eo SA ay) oe } ore ae visas & seq ang 
Fea TST | Ta VaR We HT Seared WAG aifa Bp] SM | Fa VAS 


afa ape ana ue at ward sit ae Upe & aaa w ve at aft & 
HIT S | 


yestearerearaa aor PEA) 


Pee Berh Grda Wat Wa AT 
wpe aH Harerat ass a faawat: 1 we | 
wpe Wd ak wpe Te wt Uh Sa aM Ct va tine arfe & Wei 
Hl UH STA TA AM VS HI VHS (sft) Ste 2 
araarhs Si asreit FX carat Sareea: 
arrared TeraTh WS WIAA FAT: | wo | 
ae 3k ware aaa a fant om ad deen & aaiiea Fe 
fravaa a fafa -sena & fae aaa depa cf wT afer sta Wet 
wl SSA SN SSA HE WA SF 1 Wet HB aH Bre sit qa sik VHF 
& ward ara FH sa sredtears 8 tfa sik ve a1 nfs sR a aM 
ay 
Mata Wes ht arr fears: | 
fearfefia: wet: yef Wet uaTAaea: 1 we | 
qa ok ys & faa sae sik tia & afs am @ am eh 1 wa 
ar ura fea amfe 8 erm) ead fea onfe aaa ar otk ward aa 
Wea dH Vet Hl siesta aM Saw ae ast eM | 
AH VHS Ble: CATA, GTR caT feratha: 1 
AT Searenia: Fear: WTA CAT: Wet: 1 8 I 
Fa WAR St seq sit req WHY STAM Taal YA: aH aie UaHTS 
TA HST STAT | . 
aeq sea ares ares a a sea sik oe 3igt safe saT 1. 
sae Geet at ae tia st ahs aa B am ah (qu sik YR 
fou aft arr @ am en) wa a am fea anf 4 erm | 
feareret Yet Hear Toate wT ATT 
“WH WHS Wl AMAT Tet AWTS WeThat: | Zo | 
WH A Aare Waa B say fea safe wed aH We sta LEM, TAH 
are seq erm | Sa witfra Seared Hra H ue sik tia wt aia Freres 
Hl SAH GPT STEM HL 
awtirar ep ua: earaa: tater: 1 
Wea Valera Hrat Tare areites Bpet 1 cz 
Ue sik ta aw uta & am a ane a yea sik ae Frat 
we & fey we sik va Sat at ape af art seni 1 reper 
arr stk gard depa vfs wt afer & arpa feat sea siz ste 


We faara edu 


ait gt wor eit sas ta sik we & pe fa se a as am a 
am en 1 we fer fea srfe erm, wars & sat fea wes seq 
@rm | eae YA: areafasw sey seq aa fare AT GaM z 
farqmat: we weft qateedearsrar: 1 
WHat AA: ATH (9,9) THT aw Hw A Aa: 1 221 
wen uforeasit Fut wierd WR onfe wet & sea sik are sist B 
Us Hy Scare Ht tea va fafa & aaret & 1 Tas SqaR WS HT 
20, FT HT 22, Mat Hr wv, ANT He, Awl YH Ho, AM Ww a 
& seq sk See ST | 
aed ATet aeT AST WATE ATTRA, YE: 
wacarter fers tia at Test WATT | 
wee ofa arf st uefa: welt wifes 
meant ware We frat wea fearsheara: 1 23 
fedt We wr areata F seq a cy aet | We WaT wa A Ter 
aa, ofa, Sox ar ara ama tea Sat wt ae fer a ate ef 
Be & wr ae ara we snfe Geila wt vifs vers eA a aet crea 
@ 1 fares ast OA & Sr wx, Geuafa sie yw fer F aft chara Z | 
_ ariegaa: Ysera: vararat Bisrat 
Bra: Tay WHat ca ae otet fe werfers: (22130) 
HAP et: BEC faa eraser afert: 
prerdaft: (¢) waraqaeeet dma i cx | 
seq OM & yea sik sed OA & oe freat Aer A (farga Vat w) 
22130? Brett H seer H Fra wa a YF a were Ba Stet 2 
sa Wat W FA Wo Brea Hl fs A APT He SAA ear 
WAST BAT ST UW AN HS SAT ST SX TH BS HT VHT Ata 
erm | 
fra te i of ax fas seq A & ued ak oer EP TE 
é wren FY Tae VHT Ase Vl S| MH HT Pe Ser Hy Hens 
wee Vet Weare erat & 1 Sater ot say test OH Sree STA fore 
Pater Bree at FAST A AM HT ST ATT HY AST BATT V7 
ae @ eftes gfernfetes tee war cat ferry ee: 
aefeadt Qt vergqed ee aareK Aforerfe wet wes: 1 cyt 
fore ar ast Se at AP & aa &, fora BT SAT Ten, Arai, 
Tre, fra, az sik ged aaa ara % Se eS Te & AS 


Tesiearedaaa apa VWF 
al AT aA Wo = | 
Wert Wet TTI Fa WET | 
tt ae Mat Hanfrastat Fas 
faara edo sarfea are are 
Oral cat cath faa (23) fa: Ware: 1 2G 1 


wa WHR sia & fawad wsapSa F ses st aX Wat aR 
wr ak efe A was aa ort wt fee & fay fara edo F 
wey sit are Gears 23 ai GeeTst feat aT | 


ON BOI Se 


BTEM WHT 
ax IRrtte ata 
sift fade afrare aadeary | 
oan, frat araarafes: aatat Searhaary tt 
Gen SN & ste few aa & ope thre sea aed, Ia 
aa URcra & a YH HE Tet eI 
sears wat fre art ward fared | 
gm wt a Wea Mw Yas AAT: 1 21 
qatar & feat ara aK ware erm we Fraverd ai fafa-aee 
Wan 1 sea ak ada Frere ares | gates aaa Ff yes az 
atk ape tf ar ae at SS eA a ga ae Wee aA 
wae: dep: qafer waar: 
WIS TH: STA Tat: ATCA TATA: 121 
ar sik ga at cepa gate aici cfa ait we Hg fe 
sige TAH WM SA sq SB HT ST Bey HF | 
THOT WaT PHTAATH eT T 
FAV ATT YL FAST Tal (fo) Fd tv! 
wa a we FH feraat uf srfe eat seen ara aq, afer 
Ufa are at Ew ay Ten Hered Tea Tea sry SIGART Eo G 
art SF 
CE CHET HATS TAT (§) AT Mfesrea: 
wantsat et qfe tare: ete sft 1 41 
wel Wes st SB SHS SA HTH ENT | FAK VAN A 
adt snfe wer gen fray ca sik ae wt aft B OM BT €o B aM 
SA 
aercatach Ya: adoa frawraa: 
aera at frerg fra: afa wea: 1&1 
werig Per BH ar ste wR FSA A a a sie aR SOT A: 
SL Se Aa er ere se en ae 
arg feax erm 1 
aa et ga et aa ard GF: WF: 
aa: BPS: uraTeT Fare fade aT 1 ot 


aK aaa Tey VW 


Cae We Vs BH STA AN oat Sa HA a - a HEAT ET AT 
at ape UR SK Bae Wd & ats at od & ary ee H Ha aT 
aemerer UTI Pert facet fast: GA: 
aft fafa omirat opeg gfe wo c 1 
a wer ta ak as a se og fer eA Was a dh oe 


aerate Tan (falas TH Br) Ad sik eR Fare a Tas BE Bik 
anal GH HY HL | 
pate ae adit (ex) what aaa. ya: 
Wore Bea: wdH, frareisayraa: 1 <1 
waa FF Fat He & fora & UP Ge fa aa we A Ta Giese 
art ar rag ate Frarett | ax ST Ep] Ufa & eAw at fren @ VN 
R Tas Aa AW Ts ST WA AS arg ATM I Fa West 
frarer TA STAR @ Bea gH fag ae ag eT 
& wie Ade: esate Ta | . 
war areca fe eal TireHiferat Bat 1 go | 
qata & gat waa ae SE OH ara eT | Aa otk aE AT 
Apia BT WIA seq Bl Aa TAT 
tend Saat Set: wrorarafar War 
water arferat at Ae wre tT ATA 1 ke . 
aS WK HT AeHllas Hla GA srg wl areas (Baha Aaa Tet 
HT Bz,G00 AM) AL Ha &H arqan art aM | Gated ara FH efa sik 
we Prprent & ara srq asx Ura (fea BHT 22,848 IT) EMT I 
mMTS Ta teat Hrafeae frawaa: 
@: Wh: HOT wat MAY CF TMT | kVA 
por vat HY qaied wifes tia ar are ae Tae & Uf SSA 
wa tf att VE HT sR arg rare qafea & eat arg anfe waa 
ae WHE Tea SUM | . 
aararafer areitet tateea, fire fare: 
Tea Gat Tacs feacitHagd 1 23 1 
wei tt gah ara & ca atk ox cit ar cay ed Ge ST 
WS | seq H Wa TS ary Visa SPT sik aR aK ae fal HT 
Va st we He BA arg HT ATA feet SUT 


RRR . frera ay 


sexes anit cafet aa HAAT 
UeIgh, SAT ATT WT HA TAT 1 ew 
a sre, a ge wre AY os HR ea ws Frere’ ay farts wet 
wrt ea” 
ue ware fate ara yer ep] faqs | 
tae wifes arta Gat we waTea | yt 
So ee eee ee 
Ufa Barer Hr gearless SH ST | 


at areeifers aecar Part oy ARE aa: 1° 
ATS WTH WEA AT SH, Wht WAT: 1 kG 
FE BIA HT A, Patra ert wen Patina vies Breve 1 yf ar 
afara-fora earet HRS Tae gen Fras Te ET aha (fats 
we) BN ath aa- 


fasarcar ee qfereft ay (ex) Ursa (~e232) Eat 
wel fora Birr ear faftieaat fergq: 1 go t 
fren & amt &N | St Ua wpY!S VE Ufa BPM. AT ev x 
avze (RY XHEMS a 2a S wer safe Ga ET sa wR A AN, 
a erat afe fafaa ama & aR- 
WH, MOTH, CHEAT: WTAE HERAT MTT 
ga water wad Caradigy faqtad 1 tet 
yd ar ofa wore FH feera Bt | eae FESTA HI aA Ve a 
‘SRT | Sa aE VES Hl E.G: VR aha aT UTA BAA | ea ata 
BOW BT GET HL LES WK Ha HL TAHT STAT BHT stray Sa a 
Prret ¢ 1 yaad was dep Se wT eet aA wT a 
em St gus a chaar 


grimata fier ye aon Acree: fear 
Sea, WHA Aa Hi HT TATA: 1s 1 P 
wT & an (ai st a vER wt sais (oti) Vt F 
war: sia at sref gaa an at sata ert F 1 wy pe faa 
ay spieafa ay dh Hea wea & (ae cham wef 3 rT aR ST 
wirat & ) 


ax aerate aot IR’ 


WAa RAT: weise ATR WTA: 
Heat Ao AeA Ad Td: | Yo | 
SRF ICA H EMR Seq TH HI THT aK Tad fer Het STAT 
ELSA eee Mar ae see ae IS aS 
frprerd & | 


yard Ye wae Hor eee ect fast: 
Yet Pratt: Hon Hoy PRP TAT: | AI 
we va & gate (ofa vet @ © Area sit Hor wa ar sears 
(9 ft @ ex et cde) ys an at safe frareft art 3 1 eet we 
SOT Ut Hl YatS Aa YS wat H Ta A Hor sin Hl sata Prareit 
coat & 1 Ye aT oT St aT ster A HH et Taet Tafa Frarcht 
arent | 


arg feafa var fefaer aia aera: 1 Zt 
a ee A eee 
BR Hl BIH THR BT STH Aa z | 
 orpfermerer fire set wer 
CMAN AMS AH AC TAT FRAT t 2 
ee aS eat BR Shee) a eee 
ae HH at ative Bae 1 facet chaa B 1 
Wararn ay fears erat aft 
grad aa aa Aarfeet fracata: 1 ww | 
fra ta 4 fears 4 area faa ara or a ate fat & aN 
Bl (tae WA Tat Bla B VATA Gel are Aarfe wT YA | 
WAVES Fe ses feaariswAVS Ay | 
warfare warty wre, Wht: ATT 1 WI 
wate & aaa yate ga at ae fee | Te ea B eRe 
= ufa stera axe gd feen 4 ert 
wae sake, Hit GA WATS TAT | 
Pr ae airera: Pq Ae: WE Ta: 1 EI 
eae vat wer & fe wha ga wt feafa & san Vx HT tM, 
am stk nfs ert 21 sae ot wet & are faerar AT 2 


Rw faara ator 


ax Ten aeares wai wey a 
aet wert We aareq PAT 1 YW 1 
aR Tene aN aE Ha ares F oft area sik ona aera 
aT areas fea wa z | 


awaretan starfary aretiterrar qa: 
a wretarhey air we tare Hop THT 1 Re | 
"eRe at fafir- (9) vf site ax & oa are aA VT ARTE (2) 
WH ST UST ST aT Sk (3) FF SAT & oof am a yea ca 
Pras A 
VRATAT Tera: TY PaaS ATSTHT: 1 I 
fen a a aT Hof S AM SF W St Ha sraM sa a at 
HAT HT | TH G BAT a4 Q sige FM H aes sr | 
w qwarel yatert fea fated fered, 
Tee YAS THT AIM | Re | 
Wen & utes Wi frat carerg aI ae Ghat arm % sag 
aqraré wm sei at @ aa aT St Sas fee aT sea HTH) Tae st 
a sje oar B1 aaaesa feat sea cara 22 sige HI eM) | 
Bat aat we wreat wre, ea afexae: » 
Pet WTA, HoT warfey Fe AATATL 32 I 
ax ud ware 8 wer wae a Ope aes oe fare FH cen Ufa 
aura 4 tet uf frg @ wpe ae at fem ¥ spe sat a 
afar 4 stfard HoT | 
afage: Whe ay sate ae 
— ferautrerat area, surat fertsere: 1 32 1 
wpe aera Fare A WK Hl ae, ae at faada fee F (ap|] 
AAT TR EA RK VR aH eter enfe) erat Hara HSH 
wemenfarst fae Pfrerrcharata: 
qa waritd ax fara qeaHt AAT! 32 1 
RR aert & ay fas wt gs a at sae as frst & Hz aH 
We we tan Shs HT ATA | 


aR THAT Tey BW 


ana fq fared aa opria qa: 
 Shattafe at aa aaat od abet ax i 
ag ten ax fea ofthe at oret eh aet wey & STE WaT 
’ sit orn at abe ent | 
aaatart wt feat: @ a TS Ca: HAA 
Beye aes eats case: 1 34 | 
tfa sik ax al SA He BH Goo S AMT AI’ W Yee eM | 
SG et ae Cetemtte teek Seo etn te ete arg tae) 
ua fa wt fee A- 
qert ferde fx va qatq w aa 
waed wat fag ured aree ae ATT 3q I 
aertiian aa A ge fae & crt aH (go) ster at at we aA fae 
2h) a Shi farspit @ t- : 
UNL AGA Wared-<t acerst carat BY 
fag teat foe fog wareqad fas: 1 30 1 
wee & a az ee ae Vet GH ae UR AVS aT 
a fagsit a wre aet ot et fare 2 1 ga Set fargett a az 
ASS HT SR -TI ds fargait a- 
wage Wr wat acet Teat- 
Tyee YS dae Gaara waft: 1 ye | 
Wes 8 4 sie careardg on ds ae Ghat! wd Gat & fret 
SU ST eeaUR EA th USAT Me Ae SAE FPS AH TESTA ATEN LAT 
wet Bre7H 
amt faq wa cate wzarsrat fora, 
Tend fara tart Yet Heterat fay 3a 1 
ae fag Hz aa dhs facet a at ga arg Gta | ca 
aa & qfae at feen 8 ax fas or st am @ ae varie feart 
am | 
Wee, SH YS wafer Hot az fas 
went fears aerarh frying: i xo 1 _¢ 


age war fam eae we Gen we A pe ware A hey ae ox 
a sa Ho F SO aes say B va fae st acE- 


RE ,  fagrat eduy 


saredehfean Axa WT, Were, APSHA 
eas: BTS: VF aT cari facta: 1 xe | 
fre ver varie amt teat 8 Se VER Be va A edaue 
afte ager var A afar searet A serra fe fet Pere @ arene ay a 
erm | 


se ade waa AAV Risen 
deh eetest Gad Ws aA ¥z I 
Wey va 8 sen & ee asa at aftae (Fawn) Ges aw sifa 
fare fear & feere Sterret we fers aK SHR AT cheer St ACH YH FSM 
amt wit at fear aST | 


arc hat et var asaersins eae 
saaefan sift ae, Tea: 1 wR 
oT wat Hae ae (aera a seam) ye fon H fea cravat 
ux feat Sar oT afar at ae Beet an fears Seen 1 sre S 
aifeer vatita +x fara or (Sau fear 3m) aera eaas B HOT 
ait we sata ert) | 
ferent ra: ihe asset der wae: 
aa Tyrac wfreisanpaods | vv 1 
wes fer wea & san ax fea ar ye am Peart + 
fafa ot wet 1 sta FR aqua ten wh & arqan om fea ok yas 
ye Seat we ot ofa acta wea g 
we aert wufeft cah-s Tah HUE 
TeTaea aa: BTS Tet AST YH Wa: 1 xy I 
aaa & at ar uf srfe wera Ws at ate at ax SA 
sof @ an ax Ufa ararr Hof S ar BA a Hatt onfe wat ENT Tat 
We Vat & Gs A SISA aa SOT ua BS aT a sera | 
Te GH Speat each eiaes chiar 
MM WE Wt (493) Heer aed YSiefeHT ve I 
ae upe erm | Ufa wl Us snfe yt: ga Up] ww A sera 
Vs al TaHy ST Prarel | We Bl Qos S ar = ar Afes siqa snfe 
wat ST | 
aTal 71 Tahara Ser wef fewer 7 
att yarte ee grew Wa AS I we | 


ae aqrtta cota . Vrs 
amet SHY SA RK BSF AMT HI IM sna a als YS ws frst 
aa Ae SOT AM aw siqenfe wa erm | stan B HA as fast YS 
éa @ QQ sta as fast A yet a fen ser | 
qe VSqe wes ger fre feat 
ase faracct Aces aca few: wpe: 1 xe 1 
TSH Hl se S stfaa ye fea a K Ben siqenfe ¢ shy 
a Ferat BS YS sie aw afe fears ¢ sige 8 Sh awa ae 
ag fare a tfa aw fesm 4- 
aE Wafararesy wry aa fag wae TaTT 1 
AA, FA AHI FTE: AAA AAT 1 ¥F I 
ueet wT are di faresit @ 2S 4 sare Ae Tes YET & feos 
fag oe GT ad atm | 
aahtares wer surarate wera: 
a oyat eet qe aq AMAT GUTTA: 1 bo | 
3 stqa & a ye fara ae fear em 2 1 Hife sin aT ura 
UM Seat WaT Sa Fe | saea HT H aa aM fawer Ms WH 
feared tat & | 
war af war ver gram witaa & 
Ue Way wert Gated WA SiferH: 1 4g t 
faa, ofere (Aa a Sem) Wa UR He at gfe sik aq 
Tart 8M | ie val et age fafa ar gated & aaa 
Taser RIAA FI | 
aHeticg Sry ea Tal VET! 42 I 
SUR HT ERM A He HT YTS OK RR si ona HT x fara Feray 
saa fensit stk aot & sta an oe tart GAA 
wReat Far anit fare aet TAT aT 
WaT fart WT qt Headta fearez: 1 43 1 
wet art Rare qe ax fears ux feerit ste A aaa anti F 
fonts epi 1 ax fea & ofre at aca att a a faa | 
farang ufimt aren uraw fre feaR: ® 
Yay: use geared Maishratehe FEA 1 4x 
we gt fea S aro we avsa wT ofa fare Yaa eT 


WIE fasrt aria 


te sear a et we a A Pet oh 
at aft a airy fee Hy fare 27 1 j 
feta, fercaray: ie Wasdret wera: 1 Gy | 
we gary 8 sue & rere at see fee AAA | EF fea a a | 
farg or ster een were wea we A go am a chat aren fare | 
(ger gay site ye qe weER ear SAH sre Ys ATT se BET | 
gars Sa fesicraa ara tieret 
wae afrgea axnese fair: 1 4g 1 
Sera atk Sara fare ett ae fare ar sara qferg oe & crit a 
fraa cram | 
afin Varad Sante what eat: 
Te: ay etapa ait cedar Aa 
eferor ate Sax Van ar east SAT Est VAs sre YS AMT wT ATSC 
wr am afar A chen | 
ae atid ea area tara WaT 
wet Uirr tert Ase aars 4e | 
MA as 8 as TVSe & afes fers HT Cast HUT BN Wa MA 
STAT HT 
Fa ORNL Tae Peart ferafeae: 
Raat TAT Teg: Hot AT TAT | 4S I 
wet asi eon aei @ se Sena AH tan @ Awaas TH UP 
Tem | Ses fee & fae ae YH wT sara rei Hor TET | Hot 
@ a ae Ys Fa yea B fens ame 
Weg Teaatshei Bree aT: fae: 
AWAATA AAT UAT STAT (AIv4) TH: | Go | 
fa st WE HT SR (xu") BAW 3 sie Wel weit F AMT 
oe eee ee ae ee siya et 
Ry ara & | 
Tare weds veers Wraar 
wrest seeded erat erie: sufastar i az | 


ae agrita acy RW 


ata: Ufosa AIM THA ST SM St TK HT VS GRANT Ne aA 
& | aaife tie ae 4 ae oom ca ga art 4 ft fear eT 
wea Us Vat st unraftas ahi: 
wan fae get Wx Tet STAT: 1 G2 I 7 
gal vert Satfast cnt ex Aer aa ERT aK at at ae eat 
ada qe ait ya or ft ge sin aa FI 
atsfert aa ater wre: sry 
pare fart ged Herfaefert feast: 1&3 1 
ara ay 4 ora: ud ate uf St wore Fo ax HT at 9 Sa. 
aaa @ efart 1 Fed SH Sara Sra ze I. 


wrt wot are feet eat whet eran 


are wae foes frarask wer eG 1 eX | 
watt srart orn avis & faa ge are H AQ siya zig & BAN 
aot art tfa sit wax Hl iia Hr SIAR frereand @ sik saa ws aT 
scimafa fared &@ 1 ae fafa om fos vet BF & aren A aes ae 
aX WIE, Sls Cat S| Vs faga Tat H SM Tar Ww (area Fafa HT 
gerfe F wa a) ara vex onfe & aa a fears a cafes 4 
qeairk ga (an) srt afesa cram & | sta: fares yr cha 8 1 
wb saretaner att qos sonata 
PUTAS (N93%4R) TAT Wee wot Sieetsan fararar 
wearer cafsaes T oc that waladt 
wre Uae fad fara aa afed fear TH ALI Gy I 
ae: YH ax a Gs Fel Ke We wl eH Hl az at GAA 
Spe TT S WOM HC (RoIv4R) S AM AA H a Ha erm, faars @ 
SA Bl Ye aT Sat He HA al safe eT | Ta WHF Han By 
fararg 8 we ws ea & for Ba we aM far 8 afew ae 
Tw fad 4 sist KR Ge frst or HoT AA eT | ae wet 
— Stk cfm ert eae # ga fee fas aa erm | . 


MTT (2k) BleT Taras Wi: YY fra ya: 
wre fare ater (20) frwat AMET Tard 


Ro faart 


aT ae We faradt vata aq oat aeadteat - 
tat (2) Sta fegaioacma alt wast WATT! &G | i 
Be a aR ge Se Sx WEA OT SETH WaT eo fawen & ge fire 
a safes sik qeeafa & tara fara @ Hy ear B | ata: Tt SIT ge 
sig att (HIS) UR HI Tea sie ora Wa B ae SH Ae B 
(ard srrard ax aT Seared aretigt 22° aaa Fw ge” HTT F 
for Saw we aa ee & dra aaa € | 
PITTS Wt (Roc): Tar WHT T YTS 
WrPaTOTT (4) TACKY fae: we aTraeahy 
Wearristy ta aera wrarart faaret: 
TAT (24)SE (¢) Pactea aft Fwfars (22) STAT | go I 
we va ofr & or A ae ose HI toe aT ofa Gea eA 
uw ft haar @ 1 set var wt aqell fafa & oar A saa ee AMT IE 
dream | wert fafa & ara 8 ey am ep et) aertt fafa & ware 
BAR YW AIT aes en Uh Fw fas YS srT 1 seat fafa 
Haren fara we TM wares B srt A Ye MNT Vp aaT | 


afttreterfa att oft Wreaars: 
a sara atreata Ue ATT, 
arta tert wasftert fadfa- 
area Fracatt wet 1 ee | 
BAR Het (SAR Ba 4H) wid at qeela aH ant aft wg 
gaya aa & wre S ii a can wa S, Ta HMA Sha at Wit wT 
art aa &, A eA Haar ahaa ae Safer Se HY 
WA WaT TTA FA WET 
at x Wat sat araster fers 
frard edo sarfed are ary 
siatietry fox (yx) fia: Weare: 1&8 | 
<a van seta & fae wage F sat of we ET 
aTedtas Heal h Sat wera se fee set orat wt Fea & ferg fora 
frst cto 4 ox atimafia were ev ai sera STA BT | 


a 2 a ee 


USAC WET 
afar sett vata wT at aa Watt qa: 
a ans fear wary Waa He 
Wet aeqrag fre aeTaTd Aree AATT | I 
srt & arn, Tea, fare anfe & ys ad fore aero ¥ 
SRT eq St oTa &, fare aera awl wal 4H fear ci ot wha ef 
ard @, sik fare ceraa 4 am 8 a, a0 ok ar ane ar a GG, 
Tem war et ys gen & 1 sel mera ar ats H fatiey ered 
STA RL ET ZI 
Seer cafrararedt fait orerer FREY 
Waratah te aesat ta aa 1 
We at va & e- defa sie sadtora | a sie ax ert a wT 
RAR BA WK Ud Bra SF | UH St srr FH tet w (fa Wel 4) Aafia 
aT wer fat ores oie wa Tre Y vex we oadterara Stat B 
PIS Tet ARS A flag Tea: 
BET TAT Ua CAT WOT ETAT: 1 | 
va sik wx faya ge (qed Sen aa) A eA HK SH a He 
are ert & | af an aifa & res we tea S saat ara UPa ret 
Bi . 
HIT Brest Fer arssat: Ta WTA: 
am: ware cafe waret aet wafaaeaah: tx 
ta sik =e ue ie wen fet rea Bek WSS St aT 
STA ST a Satara ArT Stat S 1 
fates wet at terete: STAT ToT 
Fel Wal Agarea: Weta she ATH: 1 4 
fe sik ax Aa the Ao oe Ht ores 8 at stk ahs SR 
at cyte arm erate srt wart SA oe WER gfe a Stat F 
 frart-qery we wae wee vated: 
We om, oie vat ate cael wars ara et . 
(q4 faa 4) ca ak a St a aa wha OF Ow TAHT 


BR . ferara atop 
are Fe (oe) Ft ee ier wee he | Pr 
wreht sora ze erat BI 
faarararta Uriiser: SETA Wa a: 
safrara: wiedise: War ey agit: tol. . 
. SOS TN et Stee te Sete BL Pisa ey SET 
erm & 1 eet & ara ava sadiara am aafa te | 
AHO THT ag eifeaa Aer: 
_ watfre at oat qeiga: wares etic) 
Wee od wr aot per, wiz sifa aden ae sea are Bret FI 
% at afa wave & sik ufa are. 4 ert sera Ba) (eT a 
al (ean 4 ae arr B ora ST afew sifre and sen z | (qe fas 
SEO WAH) 
wate wep Seana wet waa, 
wer fated art Age: qatar: <1 


A Sie SERS Le Ne Sk TTS a Te 
aa aafa am fra]e eat z | 


ANT VS TAA SMT TT TAT AT 
SHUT STA FT UTS ETAT Eqait 1 to 1 
get vane aranier dega cfr aie ax onfe at afer one ar am 
& Uf ar ee US Sra Ss A cadiara am ares Sin BI tf sik 
aX Sat Ga HT Tet (ko) HWA We aa Sa F 
wa: ae Wat Ara fataa a whee Taq 
wafacatated Bret fears fereta Hea: 1 ee 
ure vitae Set arm (aefa siz cardia) wae ue an aa 2) 
feat feat ara 4 faepa et dra et dar 2 | ae at sat & 
are at anit Sect Sect ora erat 8 - da ww ae A ae AH A 
Ura era & 1. 
Ut WM Sree A aaswierhs 
wat HrgAP aH (2e,Go00) WHTS (No,C00) Wi: HAT: | kz 
Ud PTAA HT UA SA ara fap srfe anit wr fear 
posh Uieabli abe ei beck 
_ AWA AST PET (o,Zoo) F- 


aera Gory R33 


facia depart aat font awe eMfrat: | 
BATE (Zoo) AT WaT ANT fasHrarE: ARTHT: 1 221 
facie denn (sraaier am 8A uz faa ae wor ey a AM) 
aM @ | We (2,f00) @ afer BA W TaN ws vert F1 Me a 
(Zoo) @ am 2 a aise fase onfe @ a arn erm 1 afer Fo use 
BISA W - 
adarrera: Bart SPETAMTEA: (Z4e) 
afar Het ATSATSaT Bet Yea Tah fe 1 ex | 
ada 4m a seat ert | (200) W am et a ay Wa FI fo 
@ WN FX (Loo) B arm AA w fern art anfe wa een sa ada 
an F Tet wae Yer erw FB 
FSS MUTT AN AEA BAA: MAM 
WH, UA ATA: AAA: Wet Aq: 1 wt 
Fe OAT SE ST UW Tet TEA Ura HT Ah eT ST BM SA 
Fa wy S west a ae Ha A Ft ae wes FEM AM H 
ATA HPA GA Sy W WS Wa HT AIT HAT Arfes | 


Tee BEF (Rv) Fast ata (a) TT Tet 
waa ura Het ayer oadraraat: 1 eq I 
ant (9zec 2.8) sraater 22° & 1 va aA Yew (2v ai) am ata 
(92 ai) am A wa Gels ya oe den oadiara Gas We wa: UST 
@ 1 Ott: SH BAW Sl SAH Ae BAT Hel Aral zB 
AASTAMTT THIS WH WHTa F FA: 1 
we am feast ret gent qt Frerait i vw 1 
ott: YP AM siz GPa GM Ft AH (2e,G00) Be BETS (20,200) 
a as A at sa fea aw oraiioe Gan at okt ae TET BIA | 


=pifast fafeara ae qa aria: 
wreteverfeta: wre: yt: Brat aathra: 1 ee 
(fa st Ee) Vat ar areas Wea ST SA | ANTHa Bw aT 

H (22,g00) Hen @ site afs ATH ( 20,000) Hen B fern HA a7 
sifie & ae area ati | gaat ae sik fa & nfs sea HoT G aT 
aw afsa evs anfe erm i ya avs ante w ue sia aaa F 
am a farm ath 1 (aes ar Her wa a ward S an Bt wz 
arm srazen fair) 


Bee frart cin 
Ua Breaaend am as wtaee 
TARTS ATTA, ATA: FA ATAH: 1 1 
a VSR AR AK SB area Ma A Waa BX HT OAM AH A 
were & VAM Bt SENN | saw We WK A Ger Me aT MA SA 
q Us fre seta Aare JU ara: 
ta arte ga ed aaa feat t Ro | 
y ait am aie o ae Chas & are we 4 ana, saa ae a 
aa, afa ot aet fen sam + yer ofe @ et ora a oe fear 
Sr | 
ad frart- at a oe were: aria fefate wept: 
qereqrefrat Aral: wa: UAT WaET 1 AVI 
(ad fart 4) fas gaore (yes siz ada) A ax at en dep 
arfa (epe HIP) Ea wT wha S srfte Sr az ard sta Gat & tar 
wat | 
Sa Brea Aa ATH FTVST F 
qerered fad: sitattaurae fa seats) eft x1 
fawn we & we we pe aria ater & a SF ar are B fp 
Ura st aren & | GAG We (2 a aM aqe) & ae Hi wpe Hi 
qi wits 8 afas er ar set = fee ura SF aren 2, 4 A ar ae 
& fe wa aa gat & 1 (SST TATA) ; 
Wea: wae Hs we atest TAT, 
Tere fe arearat Sara waforaaea: 1 2a I 
TNS WA OTS OTH TH BMT Ura ST ATE B a BY HT B ae TT 
wend & | far ot cit & a & faa ta otk 14 ahora fen fare 
Treat & I 
area: fear wer wracitafa: 
aeHTaa Nt Ut Hees, eheassr: 1 yt 
wa ta ak ax at of at am as a aad at wen & ar 
at 8 wa, ta afe wa ata at B, Ta Waa G fo evs Beran | 
TATA WATT: YARTCHTT WHT: 
acura fates: aret BATA Ta 1 BH 
a ufe SF aren & at sa aaa B go cus BSN | ya AAA TT 


qed asia 234 


xf, wR wT re atte aK Frere we ef otk aR A EpE aT HT 
arat Frareth | 


WT WH, Brea: WT SE MAST ferrety: 
aerd Ute Cosa Hest UTAST AMAT 1 2 I 
ga aay afte wect Ta aaa @ Ua (Ta AT TR) GT Seat SA TY 
TM Ta) a Se (go) as H Spe HIP BAM UMM | 


Fer WaeT aT eT a afaeafe: 
Feet TAS ATA aETATANT 1 YW 1 
cafe yeh ere a va a ven pa Sty Te TERE Ta ET BA 
Sel STA Al UTA Sw fo CUS H Ale VM | fo cus H fea H Ht 
wet erm 1 


ad fared ufa: ae are ahaa var 

We, WaT HTaT: Urs araea wa faasty 1 2 1 
_ am fate & fae ca sik a ot aa ot ome fraerein 1 awe 
RCS See let ee ee a aL ia aa 
facta BA a Baler wet wT 


THA Shree Farry 
gacmrhst aha area uae pferarforaq 1 et 
SIA Hr STA sit go Sfzant cepa aa afore SIP STAR 
Fa WER a wih sat at am att 1 ufa ste wera geet aet BA 
Sy Pe el ae een ae rela ee ae ie: 
AM wee wa aha ert | 
Ae SAAN He: Tee ate aia: 
we Aearfe Wears: Pra AAHTaAI Ta 1 Zo | 
TAA lia sat HoT HT Go SM HE WAS HPA fa @ aT a 
we St cies ehh Seat ater ret A ara ST Are (A) ST at AT 
wir | afe ara ala sept et (a) at aatHcT aaa a TS Bers | 
TATA AMT YrReHTa wIPTa: TA: 
WES HIN UNL AT NAAR Wa: HAT! VAT 
Ula at areas Wa Al Tera sa Fe Ha FWA: Ya aH 
atk srt SRT west St ae Sha SR BT UTE HLA | BI VES aT 
we wha aha wen frarcih-ae fadta wrha aha Sri 


Q3q Faarad ator 


- PIAA AAA WAC AAS ASAT 
aate Ufa aaeprer Ast a AWA: 1 az. 

Hepa aeret aha ea ST FE ATSB ON we fairs wha Af 
Oa 24H Beal wa A Tega SHH Sra HT YT: GEER HiT | 
Ze Sle H HRA FH Go APN A Te Ha SB aM 2AM wha 
nif @rm | 

aaad et aioe Be TRATATA: | 
wre: at Aer TAT Aes: Bra SAAT TA: | gz 

Fa VSR AM A HE SB ee Set Hila at orae af at art, 
saa va a & ca okt ax at ope ara A wa seni ae 
Ord Fea are VPM | stars Ufa Gra Ae HTeT St Srha Sr fa Vr | 

Wot anata care faraarier fa-qa: 
feafa wre anat wrefitat qaSGT 1 ax t 
ard & anfe & ara ae WI aaa Sy & fee ora & eae sik 
Wa & ar aA aa Heme! 
ye aq fara arta ard tia aaa: 
SAPATACAT (Go) AEt HIRAT WeATA gTT |ay 

x Te at fafa @ oa ea ares ea atk ax om fare Prarer 
a SaH AAaTS (fara aA & AM or stren) Frareia | TA CaaS 
at go) @ TO ae sary wri Ufa SV aT SH | 

wean taha weer wee fererg afsar: | 
HET PARAS ASA THM ATT AeA: 1 3G 1 

We Ud at Ferg feafa srg aret SP | onses Sreat G FS VATA 
RW Rey wey Ha aa wa aa A ae ferfa anf Gera w ae 
lat Sra ST | 

ATA WATE SHS BEM ASAT, 
wart areerat Apt Ay SaVHT Aa: yo | 

Ga: dene wa sik ax at ape ara or oe aR) ae) 
aa @ HY SA ar sref 2 fee wast aaa ata var 3 (a Aa eA 
aren & | 


| Abe areal Fer TET TESTA SATA 
Bre are ret rereay BAT ferfirar: 1 ze 1 


Fern ava i Bs 


Tae O Hild sR sifaw SA We asl SFA aren @ Bar wai . 
(al tet ata aa & ) 
Ba (go) whore Hea fears afer Ea: 
crear afe Her: Gre AaleT WAAT AAT: 1 3st 
ney wet ik ata afer eri araz wert anf BY Go B PT 
at Herq fiat ad feat @ art 2A we eas waite atk ifs 
wit wen siren 


ara ard fawererc set: erst aera 
fered aise wed Career TAT YA: 1 ¥o 1 
aaikis ar afr aad ferro at aT: cafeias othe hfe 
aha fa mer & arr er ot eaef sie ater aT fafa ord net srt 
aa Tet Hea ae A HATA ok SAS aera: waet sie da are 
sre | 
aera writ fray ferret: sie afar: ‘ 
| fata feafe averm: wear afeftit arti we 
WF: Fa cael sit Get Hret H HI SA He BH Eo B AVN HI 
wargar fairs wafeis ae Afr feafrsrs wet @ ant 2A a fata 
waists ae abies writ afta (saz) er | 
TERA Berg aret erst fatrit 
qaat aftedt caret costa feaft Bvsat: | x21 
FA UR AK a HY @ Vailas site aifetes sorerat ger earfetar 
att atfiter arrears WA SA ue tas site Atet sere feat gM 1 saa 
frag arisen onfe dt ferc erm 
wt frart-area areaarted areitaaisht aren: 1 
WHAT TAHT: We BAY AT: 1 v3 
(q4. ferera 8) ora & ares & ord ae a Aa Wafer as 
y WANA sera TU t ae <a safe F (faare, SAA site) wat Bs 
were freata 2 | : 
UH HBT Wd Bache TSAI 
wraara carey ad af frre Hq ve 


va ait ax at we Ot aie HA oa at safe A Fo 
a a wh ya wt ae STAT 


RB foara atu 


WI UF WT are wa Sate atte: 
Wert Ae MT: Ad Hag: TAT 1 ea wy 
Utd Fl UW SA a SA AAA WEN Ha VA AM, aA, 3, 
Me, wa sit eq anfe at @ ates vHR a ATG Sra 2 (TaN 
war) , 
wer: ftafe aretiser wet fate vay 
AG CUSIP: AAMT (Vio) ATT! ¥G I 
Ud BT HEAT feats wer ay vex sah gy evs Sa S| ATH 
Fear sret ¢ oe, wer safersare Peery sore (ze ) fer Star B 
Hs wx wate thereat whet 
wae Ware UTeMeaeay Faq 1 ve 
82 US & ahaa a A ae SH Te aa Ura BW, 22 Ui H FrH!r| 
art tea aa & Ula & He are ae EM HR Oa oT feafa are 
TAT HH SAT TF 
wee Te Ut aferq: Hherfe: 
Tee fir way wer ward Aha feafa: 1 ve 5 
WH PTA, wa sk cag Gs (aa) ale wh ah H ses F 
ee Se ee 2 preter nye 
sin et 
urdisa fafrani: care Sa fk: afral aaa 
seared foreitt care wares (2) wifrHsTy t xz tt 
WR HI Ua afe oh & aneyg A wea & acer Pagar UM F re 
ai a eh & ¢ cist & dra 8 ee HW afa ea aaa 8 2 an wih 
arer Sat @ 1 aera ware & ana afe we et aE ha we sa 
after 8 at seer wiht are facpa wel erm 2 |! 
aa forarr St orat Tet Fe: ferret: 
Ft Wrelisaa Felser arearfinga fead: t uo | 
Ura are & fart SHH WTF ter Fe (yest aT oiars tite) F se 
faa arat 1 ae sed saa St ace SA & Se Tae sat Fe 
wet eter ZI 
tha wet arha white dria fires 
TEN WaT wag Tareas sah 1 ye 


wera aur Ie 


wpe Sha & fers ae (srs, Fe) fern arm 2 | tie ate H wpe 
eit FT MF SRT saa we wet ee | fed seq are 4 wh 
afd oT SR Nt H OR SAK UST ei Ta SRT ea ata HL 
ait Tia afin sit sraq aha A am ert 2 | 
aren arasat wx arer are ae: MTT 
Seraat Beat Aaa PAT 1 42 
afar ott Sa Tet HR HH SRN VX HT HAM: Sax site chars 
afd (ape writ st Sat ste cfr nfs) chat we ft ara & arpa 
fesn Hl SR Tet ST F | 


Urdst Sta: Bel faferiste cqareda: 
Tce FAST aTaTes fe HeTAT 1 43 I 
Ud Bt Ue (ax) wa aa H afar ate Tat wt aes fara 
fafa a (he aa) wt ae aria at feen FH At wa Lem ze 
ait aa @t fesn 4 nfa vet ae drt, feat si afar ee eit a 
a 
awe fafecrrart gee ara ea Aa 
crate fafeat Va Te Aw UT ATL yy | 
qa ass we A awe faferrari a yeraa ( Agfa at 
oadiard) at tit sik staat ora HI aed aie Aw als fears 1 
tare arta art A war fates: qT 
afr era ay ae fete atee farat 1 ay | 
Wea Te Spe seas F efa stk we at Ute anf am & arqare 
Vo aT wr acta feet wa F 1 SA Bo At FH % al ae yo ai a- 
agfe sadtorreat amraerat ereuit 
wt fe arett arenes oT vat 1 4g | . 
ars: sata am cada He ara & 1 sit fe stead cron aM | 
wa sik ax aha oF @ ask aH A um cast 8 ae (Fa WA a 
Ut a SAT HT STAT Ste HA SY fara Aci Ht sitet) TEA A ert 
TAA FS Bt sik SaHl efe B ae St aM sas Bla 
ae ferarat- are (9) = (ge) TET (y%) 
fart ATARI: UTATA EHATT: . 
ASH (ROI) WITeTa WSTat 
ara areda 1 eft 1 wot 


R¥o 


STRETTT, a ee ee eee eee: 
aha Oa & ero ae APA Ue SH vs wel ATT F | SAH ary | 
aeat (Tat, Fa ae afxadt) ] wera we at Bl AwSra wet ar 
zi 

Sar a Fates TE AA cat Hat aT 
alee ear ay ya Ae. aah: 
Tavs 1 AT We Age: way HAeafy 
aren fate qareatte frat @RrTarer: FT 1 ye 
fet die & ara Fy ot wa VER @ esa B | Hh, ahs stk 
afi afer ar sia (¢ at) sate Ae uf H eta 2 1 fee, a4 sik 
A wT eA Tate Ae anfe Husa ze | sta: A art ot zara cy aH 
#1 3 aaie nese at are ule sik aaa a aha 8 sk & ary 
A Se DN Pe ee TUTE Se ori mings eae At care 
Bre wes Sree SATE A HET STAT FI 
Wa Her goes feat al Ywa: BW ATH FT (vs Xoo) 
feoqrear & cada aifas aye: were WATT I 
aad Brand wae fax fer Waray ares War 
qeareat: Ole Hrerqageat awmew Yat waft) 4s 1 
ROR Ye Ba A Ta B vo,voo feoq ay an, fire aaa FY 
gfe area a afe at wea fof of Gam et & ama fea @ 
ae, Ta ak oa safe aT Ty aey BT | Sit: BA va Bi fart 2 
fer We UIE we faa Hevad a gan Qe as ser TAT | 
Fert aa ye wirahes aa at eqe WA faraar- 
We at ae ueat fae wr aaa Pra: 
TENET ATT TTT aT ANT Wea WAT: 
feoa weecedn ay afear ara Aaa FefSaq | go | 
gfe ad at aarfe a aa ye ufacer fafe ore eat | ananfe 
Wet am A ga a seq (cia A aq Ufa) at) ae fea efaan aT 
TH 1 TA Tas TAA Ve, SH, We ante aw Set sat Han A ata 
aT wey & feu otfkatt Aaa & onfe farg (Aa onfe fore) & ots 
fear | dhe eet aaa @ fea, ara, ad, erha sik art anfe at waft 
TTT EE | WaT H fea S FA Va SN Tel Eat | Ta WAG B Fat 
wat, qn atk aq anfe et seats eat | 


wera acta i Q¥R 


a What: Weaqenara wre: xt cara fuarfe at 
Waa Teter: Barfearar ae: Fares: 
TATA YT Awa: TI A wea wat 
ardifaceaar aaa afear wearerat PrarPahe 1 ae 
RIE sife shea F sora yA sys Het & fers wn, Fatt sik 
ures, BT sit yert anfe Fe, seat feafa, sifra, oat ste eae 
snfe St am, Ts am stk afer am anfe a avis fear & 1 Aaa 
anft ot aftia wa 2a F 1 ant set ot 2a Fo ae draar W OA 
fava ® vet fern 2 1 ora faara wet 3 tt eae a 4 et fora 
=I 
ARLTRY sion fae: Tae YT A HAT (x) 
fasted fafa fered afoua wheat: 
. ge weraraa (“} aa (0,20, 000) azar: BT PAT: 
RET The errr weet gira qalsa 1 Gy I 
uf Fern & ara 4 a sik x er OT EF BIT FB | Ta ETAT 
H Y¥ ste (20,¢0,000) at Ht aaa sterioy yt ten F 1 AeA FH 
Um Ue A) erat. ( Aras Setter st) WHAT (3S, vv, 98, v4s) B 1 BI 
aA We AA FEAT (2,94, 4¢, 20,000) BW (Yo, Zo, 000) a art zy qWZ 
wafer (Regg) TAT Ae EA Sra S| TAT HOT ENR aT A he SH TR 
wT ET BETH sara Tee | 


Jaret fernfreat gar: oferenret a 
WR FEM: BOT MT THA AT (3) ATT | GF I 
neq gt Ae anfe 4 wat Sel & aaa (sa fea 1) GE se 
S BIR ST AH NA ad (2,84,40,60,000) Ua Het TA AT (¥eWo) 
RRS EBLE) wT STEHT HAT: (9, 8¥,¥0, 22 GREW) TAT, 
(2¢,24, 38%) @ Carat at ore eis sta FI 
RUOTTSS 3 are FH Hea uefa Aa A va He & wee fea Te — 
aM @ aa ye uf ver a) se fea a ga onfe wer rar 
Tey (we at tray nfs) asa a afer F ae qa forse ® arqar 


Re WE Ht acer Seotiey ese es ee 
ert 1 


s 


WI fast atop 


WX A safes ScTTearie Tear (2) fatwat 
wrawre vefe afer we qs Ig 
Weeee va afer araer yor Waar 
wen: @e qa wafaa: qa aoarfe aa: 1 ext q 
| weet at yd fer 83 Gran arn & 1 ae fea Sa ye vf | 
1 QE A @ ae Sera aferra a ufsser dt) <a woe se 
fea & wea wer a an aera sifeara wt Soa a ae Ba ue 7 
GR AMT Ta se ae YR YW wfaver rare fer Te wrt sve a 3 
qa wea & fea aera saps 8 


auld ae aa dd a en 

aft semet og Wate Prqer ear 

Oe acne Seu Ha { 

ae Berfe ga fray wey wearfehte 1 ey | 

PROVES SATE GT (26,24, 33¥-24) for ves Sharan an sey cin 

wy ard Ufa F gen a | Se aaa Fes aT HT Aa a UfroeT wre 
ftrerherat % wa & ar) Ga: sta Hoes (eeee &) ST ya fea AE 
ara &@ are Ff og wer 8 | ae Aa ap visser Prerert & fara goer 
wer et WM 1 Ta ca & fH Ve, aT Ea ee a 
& fers yey stk WE Bret SAAT ENT | 


were AacHT STF (gowe) Vita wat =I 
PAMTHTSTT: VC TT HA (234) TAG THT TR: (20%) 
wrarscrestra forqyt (uy) afeatrarecar: e- 

BER (eve) cafe Th (owe) ra afore: 1 gg 
afer ra ad @ govy ad gera we ada ferwaree etm | fasts 
Bey at qart B wearer SIM | VTEr A 202 ATA B avert see _ 
erm +) areadt wreree & 42 ad ay ar fears & 322 ad wert @ 
USES SUT ATTAHATSE A VS HETT A PAW TA THE F 92e 

Wert & edorex (fear air Sp BT 
Weary Beret Aled yfearetires: 
fwartisdt qatar were axed ate 
efor wrerafters war aret oped 
wre wre: weer fate wenrd tarfer wet go 1 
fre (ee) 4 gfe snfe & eerie aa we on wr ais Fe 
fears aee & i yente stein @ A tee WE aE at Ta st BE 


gerard aha is RvR 


% | errenrse aT feat st (Fre &) ad A set Gea at TAA UE 
aren wt fafa fra wea A A sa He we wea St va fast 
aio 4 att at fafa 21 
ge: we: fafer wird aaa feta 
ale at ae afaae: Wisa aaaqal | Ge | 
firerd arent ar ast wey a ce fea I WG AE eae 1 aa aT 
@ 3 fea Hl AM RT BMA ae & cela A eg fear Hr WT ae eter FI 
Tt fT Ses a erat st at wea F 1 ae aaa Get B11 sik sa 
ax @ aed aa era fF 
ax Warfa santos der gears fas 
fefreraart fee afear wera saat 
ay S arfe feafarts wepeorear AAaTt 
Tareas efae ATS PTAA: 1 es 1 
arent ante we waifafeat A ape ax at ua ard A a (fs) @ 
3 Uist ofa Saar ort fara afira (fears fers) H aera yo 
H yg sie site fear | anata se cad Bpe at wera et fen at 
ay we Sifaeat F Ae as anfe fare stem aremt cart H edt 
feat? 1 vary & anna Hf Aa ae eater set frat 2 | 
fart wre aft way: carqyisd sachet 
ararad was aaa: ard ave wr at (2 2) 1 
Ae Fae AT Tay F Ta: isfr eiereare: 
HUT Tat Wid Cas TA: 1 Vo | 
ag & aq 8 wan Bl UAT S anal (4o) aM HS sy fafere 
wrt SY aa a (ue v2 aa) are ¢ at safes) ata HF 1 gaa 
are ot aa Sta St saat aig cite crcen A sua et 2 aif ue 
Titra ar avia adara wea (fea) & et sa F-stg cit eat @ aaE 
#F) 
 Werart fra aa tt ax qrerd afar, 
& aretat afta faaet art sears TANT 
aoeardtar J wa Uist A SM Hrevy farg: 1 - 
WAST: ACT AH: FATS ATTY: | Vd « 
frre At aha St faery ae fer aed @ gt fins are A Sa 
i 


fom & an goon free At ats faa oni wr a HS ae 
aukerg ayn cet ar ary aT ane AA aha A starz: 
sat Hh Chae Ae reine ye elle Se Neray ns ee 
Ufadt ST SSK SA ATA Hee BH AEF | 


Wedwat TS Fa wT 
aft WH Mat dt afast fas i 
faara eto surfed area art 
Od: WUT FF USAC: WHT: | 92 | 
Za VaR Setar & saa ae ae A Set ot ase VER SRI TT 
az area F aarra dat areret & ara & fare fers faera ci ¥ 
Ura aula wear e al Ses TAA EAT | 
fa afer qeit ya fara ya 
waa fara fre cart adetsfery 7 
fafafte afrart: (3) TH (g) wert 
Henfra wared yore Waray 1 vz 1 
a wat 3 otf Fh ey were ated fara et wer a yat< 
AT gam Free Fear oe IT Tera Ga FR ae hl MN TS 
fasra 2 | 


freq wey ats Yaraaar ferara wrt TT | 
waar aft agen ya aT eT ea FHT 1 8 I 
faa ae ancit ¥ ena wa ax wen afere safe what Xara 
waa wwe & fast 4 afe crear @ Ses seen & aT Aa 
fasrad wat at teat et Ue fereat & oeat ar ger farcry Ht Taz 
fear ae ada Ft Oe fT RR (aA SEAL SI) Tifa Ble He fasra 
we fea, set sod & cart werey sere at aa Heat CI 
aaapternta Aste wy eK Wert We 
ie aft teefa mente: waffrat qe: 
ciret cite faite wat ad we eal GRA, 
BATA TTA TAT SA APTA AA 1 V1 
ST Ga Fea AS Wes Weta & wa A sears & ast Wet HT 
tert ued & ant siz gaa BF Wa Bl wae SH cin #1 ga ax 
ate € Wa GE WAS ht act & eraa S a Ge at ia wre F | 
ae st fare. we & aq wae sa ae A ase 2 
wre, frert wa wararaar a © weretert 
a: Fras frtatr wires a wor aq orf: 
arta wat wots wr weafite: @at 
Tear Werte Hirt at TS WT 1 BI 
RA ser qewar win fora tea cay fers (Ste) wet BF 
ar wart ax fears ferrafer at carat at, fadit sat aaa & vet 
a vere at ( aretfarss test VaR) Saw wT arf fea sie Wa 
wT ares Sart AT at aea soe fen, sa Re Ws reer a FH 
A HTM S| 


-cé oa ysite af ad ae afr vt 


WE frer et 


accine Wan acm wise eee waa 
%, Tae aa wT Sea A ea at sas aque B AA Venera fee 
BATe Rt aa Tags Wer fora area He SF foray a A wry 
frartaat 4 faenx & fora @ 
frara anige avers achiaret wire we: 
Wet qa ara faatears ard Yrepes wT areHTarT 1 Gt 
shay anit sr at ae nfora aeerr & fea vas faga F AF 
Wear: ae are & Heit et sare at @, Tae sifaiee Het Het 
ara ararat ®& far fea & am wes fear & seaaa 8 sas 
BR fara ats | 
frarst ferieoil-ceart vet sea nfitd Tetcahey faa 
we whe we aie wera fr: weet 7 eT 
We a fara suaarHad were at vat 
Terereqaata ster fry wet Waa Mt: 1 & I 
saifas F wet ar sea, ape safe afore ar areata sre vet ary 
@ Sita & aa F ate aa cea & an ae faaq wast F anex set 
ue @ 1 ga Third or wet are A aaa & aA ae Ta a 
fear %- ga s2eq 8 4 ie we St Ca wT TET 
war aida qaay et Werf wreeate io | 
eh & fern ast vat wr ater, ten & fan Usa IT AAT ae 
fart war at fora wer viet aet edt & Tet Gee Ae aw ® fan 
mere it corel & | 
amfcaraent fara faget ge: ufre: ai 
weaareaats Ft ard Wag qT awe: 
er: Wawere Afe wore arerahrse ear 
Siatie Wea wired wre wet Waal: 1c | 
are gd aun fan sare wa & fast et war FY aware He 
Say on Efe atk aait wr fern eres tifa Bra & 1 Tet veR tet 
aél say aren tera Ht Shae wr ear A fafa wer & wea sik 
alge sin vet aa HL Soa | Ua AAT 2 
Zora Carats wernt Pears art Uhrareara 
We: Bye: Sa PANT TMT TH: AT WHT WT 1 Ft 


get ay, _ RM. 


gedit, ares ike at ah Perf aftr are eee fora here 
gerd (uftea a model) @ 1 fasrit 3 et a ue aa (Ras fare) 
arat @ 1 fare arg era fra at Terra So Cars THe BI 


SARE: WT He TT WI Wey TApETT 

Ti anacnthe TRS wee Besa; 

a Ten sonst afer Wester waa: 

Tere a afd a aft WH Wels WAT tor 
Was Treat A Safes wea Wer BT Teer (Wafers) AAT B | He 
ara & ayan Brat &, ae Ae (geal) at feerfa & srpar 31 fen 
HE We ATT Hat CA BT Wer AST HET HT THA B | Vt we (eNOS 
wat) ret Ft wer HAA S| ata: TAS We TAA *& fara het strareas 
Bi wet mira arr et wag ST wa Bsa: St Afra Tet TT 
ae (We snfe) Sifts Ha ara aaa 3 ? 

fafa afta qe orm Hore Te 

ae a wast fre: Weeyrer Ufaw: 

afe gafa ata ifs ge ae 

wofsa afrerisersqen array | eft te 

afora @ wart an - ores (Ta) site stom (ats) | HH eT WHT 
3s fora Ae SARL (RES TITER) ST SST BT A OB aE Sf 
We Wa GAS (Ta) Bam % sean ae ara aa wT A Rhett 
erm | (faara ferraios ar sect ware) 

Tat ar fadare sara fafazae | 

aa @ Y Mat area anfrda: 1 31 

ich eee ie oa ae ee 
aefa fener or er &, fore’ att ae aren (aaa aT EST) AT PT I, 

wat: dread frayed 4 aa, 
ae Be afd theared ae grat 43 1 
— (area)= % arent aétea, sek ort orga aware are @ A ae 
nifora Het aa viral & fae A yaar zt . 

a7 F art aa Gea Fy aden 

APT AT FATA AE MAHA AA: ex | 
see to ate att gal @, Fer set 2-H sng Te we ae 
sta aaa & aa wa gat stk saat aga Mt eras & frae aga 


. We  ferara ety 
monte aa 
ae ee ee 
Beat weet Te: eared afte ty 
are week fe Be sarees rere 3 eH Gini fore ye get at 
aATT | Wes Ya eet ST ST VATE | 
oe aren aaah: Ge aa: weTT 
fread qa TAT WTA | GI 
See aE sree EMTS AT Tet SH we fora wT aTEaT a 
ATTA Bt AHA F | 
wearer aqadt Sead qafac: 
gat wrest fe arte: eared fe GTTT | yo | | 
eit A yeeit an sre awe & GA wer aT Bt ea yest a 
WF aug, ad, (ea) sie weog onfe J arr fear Bt yeat ar 
Foremt vo sifzatert & (eae) 
Trey areal grat cearatasy fareqa: 
Waa eaves afear zak FTI rev 
. pSseels aN Sale So laa 
WH Tay wax a fra 2 
sicrreutel Ne wi swreee (eves) ews . 
ufeaat q wfaeiset aT AIST (2,000) aT ER 
arg at & Tey Ff (c¥,000) aera cen Fe oa & 1 (Sarg) Ae 
FT Reooo Get WTI HS 
wey rare afe dior: afta: er ata: 
Pe-girer rotten: wafer Fereqar: to | 
Sy ate are HAT: Shaper Frege sea ae & Ter saat 
TAR RT Bye | 
oe 
TIT CATS ATTA Tae 1 eI 
. sa 8 era gene de 8 er sm H aera Be sere wT ATTA 
en 
rene ME TET PE 1 38 


wet aU BWVvz 


Ope ce eee ae eee 
21 va vdd H aet Ba were Ht AA Rees 
a fe qyet weet eet: . 
Way Uat wafa frdaserst eT: 1 2 
qs ae oe as a ee afer ara S| g ye a stera | 
ait facet (east Tan) IT ae SR ANS SES MEAT SATAY Bt 
sata wx atarat saat ata: 
qara: Wa We ed oat citar: feerat eft 1 3 I 
i & SN SM ws, Ae safe VE WAT HWA BS | TA Tay BR 
ee ee aay mate ae, 
wa, aa anfe ce B 


atarg 3 ware ant eaqaT 
ASTAAST AMT TWAS TE TTT PBI 
ate aa & sre geat & art aw aaa wey HAA F 1 sta: geat 
al sian frdt ot fee 4 vei 8 1 strers A ae aR aeq Tet BF 
3 SO TAT Heal & fH yedl coma Aa TT we. 
ant aah qa at at a at tar 
VHT aI BT AE Hea: FeTT 1 2 I 
SA Ad & START sear Hy Ws, Xa Ta uy aaa si a 
agent aay (astra) a aa feet Fe ada at- 
qeaifa qofarat: waraearerateara: 
T UTA Yea FRAT AS BTA: 1 Yo 1 
Uftent stot & ara te a HUA St ota: BE BMT A UH ae 
Ur oy 8 a wm sey fear ame 1 . 
grevs uber: Ger aa: Beata T 
giver ade: ast shots weatefa te 1 
yea afa ends & ufesdt at wea 2 fe geht wa a 
Fart & att arenes A tre anfe wel & aa - 
a Aer gecqe freer arash: 
Meds ce Wha wt Ga wea 1 IF 
wea as 4 fra a sed a wha ga A ae wt ae Ute 
Ba SI 


Bo | feara ator 


WaTaryTaSaTS gauAy fer: YS ATT | 
TTT: CATIS MAM YMA AST WATAT | 30 | 
wa war oe fem A mfr @ seu fer A yedt or UH TTT PF 
eo ST See eae aaa) a or ate a 
Bra & | 


et mfr fer qt afer sY arftattt a 
TIT: TAT CITA Feat: 1 32 1 
- Fe War geal at ona ste arias et nfrat & prot ware: 
fer wa der ad eae 1 uedt wt arta nia & aren ufafer saat 
STAT STAT LATA A feerfa ert I 
Tt Waar sat et afearator waied: 
UearHeary Meares TM g 1 yz 1 


Geet & Sx aH ATH strepdor Ries Sly BH BIT TT Yea B fara 


fesn 4 fia vet 1 fire ver cad af site ara & afar cit wr 
ara fer an ada am ean ana & set ver geat & ait ar 
ural fee ut we aaa ante nfasiter ama & 1 
afar aerfe Prorat qeret geae ef 
eferotrar mary ater areqrat Ter 1 33 I 
geatt tents a cet oe Ge gente & cheat Bi geet at xferer site 
See APY (HH) sore EF ret: Sear att afer aha: art 


i 
ae earett ster eT: ATA 
Gear ada: uforestad wit i aw i 
34, Us, geal, tne, qestk wis wan: gl a afew az Fa 
BM Be IT HAT: erat afer are eet Te a 1 ae ret wi ae 
aa at veferor wea FI 
OL MYTH: RT ARTERY TATA: 
TAH TMTHRY FA-EM TATTT | a4 I 
ax Sune wet at often att ¥ ott wal & ae wae aT 
ga at ot often aa | serecr ware geal a sone ax Geat 
at Ufa aed & att geal & are (geal at Han %) cea Ge wt 
aft often ara 2 1 


MPT wars sree eq Acta Ya: 
q faney aratin aaffit ae tea: 1 3&1 


eee | 


Get auf “UR 


ai & art ott gee & are wearer six ava SaK & erent fra 
VER yeast wx ag Re ei S| Tet veHR-sry Te a oT Sta Bt 
afa feat we aft went aa ge a 
aeeretord, x att =f vacafh t 30 4 
<a VER aa a wel a nfs, ger safe ued @ aa fas dat 
@ 1 38 care & araedo S set vere sas ant sik qua @ ae aH 
ea ven at ue fea aaa So ah Ga was) 
frarty feerrgeat afeat sate wean 
qedes fraraht qeredacth: 1 3c t 
watt greafesrdit & aqan geet sreresr &. qeq fea at 
saat we ae, we a, I, aeefa sik wit wr waraa 8 au 
cam 
ard aetsmate gq: @ creas eae: 
WIT Tit aH eT WT AT FRAT TA: 1 get 
amd ve 3 wert fe wat srt ca | te Bet & sree, geat 
Sl STAY Sta WL TACT SlaT Bt ate: Uedt ut fears get BI aes FAA BU 
am (geal at ge ufa & arn) aaa at fag at ae aed EeT 
aaa e 
arad waa aret gat Roerarite: 
we wr adrared wat ferg Fft Tt vot 
(ferea-wye % ufs) str sa wed & fe say ant sik & ei at 
at i yeat wt vefarn sea & 1 as wT geal a ofa Hea 
@ i (ala Fae we A sone H wa A ae, aa we A Gd & ara 
geet at oftarar aa & 1) 
wat wey fasdeas St yefarda 1 wet 
Wes Tey wet oT fee Te eT aterarers ata aA 
ae ay wed & t fe ae aaa Aet st ara HI ae AM fear 
wat ? . 
Hr HAT Waa WeTaT TTA 1 vz 1 
fear at ga gfe at ote wa & ome Stet & 1 sat ata at 


BR. | feara cit 


caret Ste 3? wel et gfe a er en 2%? geal a Ta fire Wee 
eat ? 
| ferrera fearant a sr af arn 
atedteteatar ea afr frofaar 1 x3 1 
eet ar stra att stra aft | geet at fara, Ma 
uda 8 2 caw feat cm frare aa ¥? 
 faraait oft froarat fe wet Geet Ty, 
Seafarea carat Sifrat sree feafa: 1 vw 
geet amr off, ora, oe (aan) sit wee (sae) aes | 
qeat a seater aa @ cilem ae ue, aaa anfe Ha fea & ? 
Saat Aaararay Fer y ye Wa: 
FR thats ferry seared fer a ar feat: 1 vy 
geet us atk i Y fea wer Baa siz sraast weit wea & 2 BM 
wa ak Ane onfe wet & fora a dt set vat welt Fare wea & ? 
Teron Hea TT F fraray #rfetar: 
aa gH fate ufecr arf venfehaga: 1 we 
wea faeri & wet a wer an Ste Ae SAH ST (ea, 
faa Tet BAB) ari ve anfe 3 G:- 
wierd 3H Waread MeHTa PTT: 
oF fer arena ToT arate: bw t 
ara gay fee weit et Hea wT | arent safe ararat 3 GT: 
srw srectanzt HX aay caca sar Fratfta fa 
frrnarrerttat et fe areal 
— Favdeatar eee atest ar afreret 1 xe 1 
fer sree wey it are & ser Bea eT & fH WT 
fea jet 3 1 Fa SaeeT A aes a at ae fa erh- en sa At 
arg wre BT 7? 
afe daca: whe wet st TE ATs: 
Wereteaaeet HA T Wraeg: 1 XV 


afe Fea tye & UE AT a go Wace at seats Sr B, aren 
we Farfe FH WA a Wace Waa A (¢ 4) Hi Aet sey STB | 


Get cba ta A Qua 


wear we yfe: Aeary apetafa: 
qaaa warfhar aa Haft AT WaT 1 Yo | | 
svete onfe yew omat ait (a) ware 2 wet eElaeT 
fag gan Wass Bit 2 wel eT ae Spe Hae yest & fea 8 a ory 
Weta Wt eat dfs @ era we ape sin? 
qatgd Garett frat ot aqEay 
aha sears ae fe aT MTF gq ATT WI 
wes sraraf 4 stra anrfe wet at ope wea & fora aR GE 
dear Se 1 sat qu, wis sk ane et ape wT & fer sit 
afater deer fea Saal Fa STF 
wag: Uf Cae He AS AS TAA 
ae ered eet Bet Ae AMT wera: 1 4a 
vie afk a ots at He Fit 2 sitet (fae) sik gra (a) 
uel Ha wars eat wet Ba ? 
wz me: Se ae: Ge AT Torfesy | 
erfed oa qh: af terest Ta 143 1 
we SR vie ee or wT fea ve eat 8? Farfe sik gene 
es HS sk ey wa HAM as sit wo et Ae B 2 ah safe 
aa wat anfe ax A ae nfs wa Say at ar wy ait Stat FI 
faare (2x) aiaa arta: frartyfaceattr 
rere der fe ars arasataerts ax t 
at farat 3 at wrist es sist AAT aT B | SGA Fa 22 3ieT 
wait ara & 1 aria saz othe efear ait Sr B ? 
wa gfe faratat fer wea Faq afa 
wre qeeer WeAyeaT A AGA: 1 uy t 
geet a fea ott Ud HT AA Fem Be tS 7 art Ue at aha 
qa At %, sam sera wa Fit Fete? 
wot cae fe earay: Tit qa 
Treas feoratfa =raret fie tear aa: 1 4G A 
ad fear dhe wg 8 cee am fei A qe sit % ? ihe 
ww ara H Ae afew ae we &, sea wysit A eat zet ? 


cow | fosra cin 


at qter yater tare Wot Ha 
ot @aet fe Fe Se TT WEN ATI WO I 
amt af frst ot oa ores srrarat at qerat @ gg WoT eat APT 
& 2 ax fea a Stel Hi AMT ? sus sqar emit (aH sik BA) 
Ten fea wer eat & 2 
aX WEN aq vd wal neq Wet ca: 
TPE ene aerate ararered Gitar 1 ue | 
STEN & aa ee or oem At ad ata FH ( start) A eit AUT 
Brat & 2 fa wl aa Hei KW HA A Sel ea 2B? 
faard werd adore Wepay 
fag Barer fo wre: WEP WH: TA: 1 4st 
aa on aa ore aM Frere’ & fora cart Seer fen, FR MST 
‘ean Fait ? 
wa Saad weg ams fates aa: 
me: WG: ated: HAM Wera: wet fag: 1 go | 
war sik afa area ae & fe peasy os am fafa am a 
arava sit areal ate BHNea | eat Gee FH aR A wd 
arard 3 eit ae wet & ? 
aife Feat aay Bat retreat 
wg fe aferdt yer sosa Tay 1 Ge | 
qi wen & onfe, veq sik ora am 4 (easel, wea ik at & 
wr) oh fas aS AEA ® fag ant vig St SeoT Fit aT 
a wea arearat > vet at eft 2 
fe Ah Weaars are ary fete 1 
aereaft feria: fr wr, were HoT: 1 G2 I 
qa nen & war wx WET A ara sik eK uw St fern F eit ae 
aa 81 yet ofr aware & oer H fen He et Sat BI 
aet tet aft get aert qf ye A 1 
feafen ater fie aereerayt carat 1 e321 


fae ma ar an gt gw ener & RT TT TH TTS 
wa & faa & ? 


sutra nineaienea 
apart Waa Ta ATT HAT aN | 


yet apa _ 3 ue 


oars gare Hope sts are a ger Micra we oe ures Af 
S Mars: wa St ara F | 
vat J gary epees fates fe) 
writ Weert Arey yeadishraeaers 1 ey 1 
Wl sae Fa SY Ve wT Sid GEER HE KW ae safes Si 
arn & ? 
nerefces ¢ fiferafa aerate 
saraste fafer fr 7 ear cesta Tatefa: 1 eR 
SARL street H sreuea we az amt cam & aenfa wa & fea } 
BAA SETH St ATM Rit vet Sra ? 
ater feor cath: efrarsra afhrat 
feat ar weatort fragt @ Gea 1 ay! 
aa af fare frat ast cep are & 2 we sie at et Genre feat 
RX WH sat 8? (a fat x a chat F ? ) 
aontt efearts wy werent wht ATT: | 
Se Har trait aft wate ears: 1 ec t 
acy areas fea 4 thee oe de nfs a IPT SEA HK TANTS HT 
wan der (oftfia at card) err & tear afa (Ae a rela wea) F 
HET WANS | WK AS RK STH SPA 
fares anf Grane ufe ae Aet fea: 
Fare feat weroslet ATH! Get 
Tet a Afra aera nfs ware vet &, ara: wer arr aioe Ea 
(SAH ATA wens Sl Hat wT Bast wet sam) | Fa sraeen F 
SNR srqat wero wr ofits ara fara & 7 att ag Sa gra eM? 
neat eileal year ga, wet aafeat 
qantas madt AY a at ahaotd aq wo | 
amat one sit art ga, aed At ara ue sie zest wt ET 
att area aaa HEY Mt Het Bs SN Ae a FH at ae yet wer fan 
ware 2 gear Profa wy | 
atrarn: eared: Wreeasye atfad: 
eeare: ques aya: faryay wa: | wet 
za en ax fawn eT UA aa Fi ge wae Ht HT FAT 


QUE . . | feara adey 
amas sya aera fees @ ? 
qeeat wfrrentoa ure: wferat fefer 
sate: Be sry Teas MA STL! 02 1 
aT HK HT TAL IT St Wal Sara Cham & - wR ye aT UT 
frat ot fee et saat eT HRTF ? 
tars Anta Pt faraata set qaq 
TOS wa area wea efe ante: 1 03 1 
afer oie wx WER EN EH wets saat aha wa WA 
(Agfa sik cadtara) aera F sast |fe ar dan fea yar Sia B ? 
fe sata tar cilat: waerafeaes: | 
feares are SRT AIT wT FH: 1 wx | 
wa we: wa onfe cites ot vere arg arr yaa e ? fea, at, ara 
aik eu & wari fea wa a BaF? 
erat srt: afe fea Prstesfar eee 
aret weet afer wrat aw arate eet: 1 
ta Arar fry aferqat tarafeca: fry 
ATA ATT TAP (2,000) Fagh EAA: | wy 
Wa & axa siz sexta (sea) stk are) & G fer Bie oT AT 
—@ eo fea aT seks WHA F aay FW aH Ara F fag fea, dhe 
fee tat, 08 ase TRY A ee er ys ee 
erat & ? 
@fafaa: wer: fre: WaT: WAT aes aq We SAT 
wate owe are we fat ate fe eet Tach fTTT 1 VG | 
vera feat ven sit ad frat vant a7 3 2 are aN aT aa 
aren Sat & 1 seers thet % aera ste we wr UPe, sist sik Het AA 
argh san fra wer fare ara & (aa ERI)? 
We Baa: Wrata ae fir ct 


afd: wae ATP BT |W | 

yet a ferfer nfs ¢ aq fea wart Ba & 2 (ah, are, wa 
sufe) at ar uta en wart ear 8? ae wT aT aaa a RT 
aa H HS ary em 8 ? Teas ef ser, safe sma aw are Aa 


get aol Bo 


aren rat & | atte (afee fate) - 

Waese Tat afer fe 

wit waratad faqaerd 

faa warfare ate ater 

TeTN: Yat aT Te we i 
Var Hea F ea Fam Ta sa = asa SF 7? az A Seis Ht 
drat & 2 war es cient wt fara ver Stat fee &, en aorta 
al ot ae faa wart & ? 

TT Wa Heats He War 

feafa yatr adta artery | 

way wd fae qeaert 

wre: was TSA 1 Vs 1 

cies fat afters & fea wer ada am afaera at fafa aaa 

sie wa WT a WA Tae fate sat | eT et wat a TAT 
STs AAT WE Aa Ae ee ET St AAT | . 


wearer fife BUSTA: | co 1 
Beast (HT) we st are @ ferret wath wiaa %, fe aha 
FAS TAT we KR srs fats Ha 8, fos ces was (sera 
Gert aa a) we wl ate eal, we aa a (SIT) EAT Wa gx 
wt | ‘ ‘ 
Werawad JATdt SA WA: 
St Tarer sat uPrastr fre 
frara odor surfed aret art 
Weaadl Sara VSM: WHT: 1 cz 
a Wart selen & fas wage 4 sory ahare WaT SKI WT 
ak asia % gare den werat at fen 2s fora fora forsra ador # 
Weat Baa ga 2G ai ETA TATA BST 


BO A « 


ee ae 
Tea GR af arar gear acarafed: Ween: 1h 
say ferea oea & oa S (Sern JB) srs wre ® fase favat 
SON We ae te oh ey ea ig ea a 
wer 1 e ace (ferea), Ga as ze a TT 
were weergtate war oefereray aw fercar feerera: 1 
(vere fre ete Tare Tar Gets Set AM oraeAT) 
aererrewaen Paar we Hered uit a as F121 
(feof wearer dis gare & aa ¥ 1 (2) vera- Ree are aa 
2. WeS-AST Be SA AAA ATH VET (3) SAMA Say Way 
ari. freed fraser 1 stareen-faua afte a vst HI SMT Vat 
eariag BAT) i 
% ora yealt a areca ae qd ante wet a nfeeftea een wat 
TNT STTBTE BY (SATE HT VAT Were, Tet Bie STATA SRI HE WET 
.-@ . | 
Saray Gwen wpe feacaa: weraratedsay 
Wey WISE Bsa F WT Vpe Carrey Hay Ww F: 
fagerosen see 7 ofa fee Terence: cara 3 
qe, ee, tva, Ws otk wit ea ale are Wet at wen & HF 
wa 8 1 faq ae gd ape ae, ses Ga 8 ca es a at aT 
ars F gedt & 1 Bert qe art geal & free sh art ox em | 
wees % qq F yealt sree YT Bre sreaet wifes @ fea & 1 gealt 
BM Upe a, THT AYE TM aR at He VT gy 
ferara fered - wea: wearer wer Aer wae: 
HOTS Y AT: trae water | AY 
geat ax cea, atren, urs, fer a1 aera ep Saw & fora 
WR Herr Ge A Har Hy Sara WA F I 
waTeaae Ward TAT Perera 
aria wert wera od afr 4 | 


sirerteatter au , Ee 


Ru ad fesra 2 (say wares Bea F yeast sree eps 3 forages 
ard an YF, Te att sara Han &, ae geal she ait el HT sre 
qa %) fara cae fas aa @ Sah veal ot et eax 8 sar aa 
fag HA aeT = | 

a frart-weat wetevser qi oats faster 
fast: aati afe seo aronfsrarLt eft 1 & 1 

sree 4 aaNeS F HET FH ual wa aH B fea Brae fea F 
aan ST We after shes art Carat HT a TAA spree gee aor ETA 
Hea eI 


rar frirat-qat et Yair wea 
wearers waraee 
Aa Hea Ay wis: feuds 
fe at qf: are af a aff 1 efi 
eat a aa frat sea at aaa uz fet saa aie Arar a, 
fret oH ater sik ga var wa at wena Ae SPA | Tat Ga: aT H 
om ongt wife at dare ara em 1 va aa at gt wet & fare 
area tea wie A yedt an area aa St at a The B 2 gest 
wr seqtt at arary at afd aet & 
quien qfwiad aos aT 
read maa TT Gre Wega: 10 1 
ae srfe staat A geet et art fara ar | gear are @ fe TSH 
eat & He ster ar et arey fewer at get gest wT ret 
ga: ude ae aq gaa fa efi: 
Ta aca Ate TH qenfrarahs 1 et 
uda sit geft vere ueatt & up ster ST are BV TOT gE HE 
ora € 1 eet VER aT aes Eile sera a (sit aret ) et fore 
STH ATT Gear anfE zs 
Zam fast aries wee fase wera 
yay git ae aret derafad AVS ATT 1 Yo 1 
Teal & an S aH STA HK avTgat am sta far area ax fasra 
wa ¢ frre gh ag dra & va ares ar are ft oft aged a 
at wT Tet F, eat Be ew sige er et area eter wea & | 


Ro fuara edoy 
wares fe qire citer se ae Fata 
RUTOPUTA HA BraisHr-yT THT 1 vz t 

San ae Se Oe ae 

Be ar Y yey eal ara 8, saat wares & fee we & frat oft a7 

oper EA GT Ie fear SB eet WHER Geel & feat wH 

am F Say SAK ae seq wart H et er aM BI 
Hor eared Ute AETEE ATRAT (ROME) UAT A: 
way aieradt aafs Red ac Mlaa wacTAsT 1 ez! 

ag dt xer geal ar & cer (stata seen wea Bret sist) 3 

aa: geal srt wife & et eer BY ore acs sreapftia aedt B 1 yeat 

ow TR & ae saat sre fret Gre & ata: we sz wel AeT STAT 

& 1 sere 4 ste fare fee & ony ar are set & I 
we frert-wsareg afe fred sare wheat wet 
AUTH Tara frarera fasws 1 22 1 

geal ar farent Go aife ater & | ated Usa & eas 8 ek BEA 
ara tra Safe Fae aX A aaa dt Sarat Ae iT Star Sara BEM | 
Weer TT Ge wat Heke Yas 

eda farartrea Rreqaret to yx eet 

"ear din te onfe at ger eek oe eet zara Ff fava ar oma 

Sr ¥ (Ble We & cHsl M tan, safer az wet F ara wt afeat 

aT BATA Al Here BY AAR anfe ara F i stra: gat wet yest at 

wean wt Pre tet § otk seh F 1 (TaRT TAT) 
arereet wet crake wea Vera fiat: 1 ty 
favs (28) F wanes wt Hoon, fro (aret ar ast 4) anfe wip 
at Sea a sem at feat wT are fre wer amt var 2? 1 Tat 

WHR gest wt efor Ht etter A Aste (Fay eat wr ase Ae 

2) 

avgarte waate wd anid qe: 1 
AMT RT Treat Tare; VA, HATTA: 1 AG I 

Gan Wis 4 qos anfe at ar ot eat ger smifta 3, ya aT 

a yn, ena safe eae ern & ae war ST A writ ete BI 


srrettestia aap ‘ RE 


ad fward-eacraraqar Giet: ererarerdattiort | 
Weatat qatar VHA ATARTL | FFT t vot 
geat at gear % Aqsa wT sree ser BleT SAF HUT aE 
at fernsit ¥ aga ea att aH Ba ore & sik yeat & Ma san 
al aaa vet cradt | sta: geat sara chat @ | 
frarst ferro - afe war yqQder afar wradh acetate: fera 
Satter Taisho mary faqAt cat Frater 1 ec 1 
aad yeat aie are & BA (AAA TATHN) S Ti et La a 
ad ue & fen 3 om ae cream | afe tar @ a ge Fe F tam 
am @ are awe at at ta wa Fi set wer ora wari & ot a 
wer eat wet cham & ? 


ate fren wae: eral We: PHY TET: WAgead 
Tomy Fs Ta HayVfa | efor AT FH 1 ee 
afe aaa faft of ar arr 3, dag wa 8 eit vet chen, 
an a wet & ar ae wera chad | Fe ale fark gaz A St at 
aK A A war gs a saa dan, cfr A eit Sra & ? 
aaa: Tara: Mara yeat aw yeat Pract wary 
Ra TYE WAST Hea Waa TET Ufa: AT 1 Yo t 
aa Hy Uff BH goo ai stat Ate St Aka & 1 Yeast wt Gora F 
AT FET Bet SA Fe are ae Ae yeast a sik At @eT Bier sist 
Sa UAT S | ata: AAW HI Te get oft aaa chad B 
wate freuraaen qe frea oa: wa Be I 
faya & gat a ame (Sat <farr Va |) BT Stati Freweray | St 
aI Sat cfamt fen 8 aera ora ot Frarel 1 statist se aT aT 
AICS St Ul 3e0 Bl AIS se sq SB Prarery w yeat at ate 
sr aftaroy err 
Prat tere farft eee vacaadt wh TET, 
aeat VeT A eT Pas ae Hag fat 1 yV I 
faqa @ saat amt yeet uftfs & yeq art at ett az feed @ 
Fe shat BT eg A UT HA we st yest at ufefer ar utes oral zs 
ee emo ee oe 
ST WHA F 2 (THVT TH) 


ER foart aint 
seit waren afe gt er ured ta: aranfet gear . 
adisee grr frafta at ar wir S Wet TACT Aca! 21 

ueat afe tier Tet sat aaa ett a od fem A saa aa. 
fied Fe & aa ga fa tt aera we fear ert 1 aeare 8 frwe 

aA & oreo saat ahs Fe & wars Fa Bl arn 1. 

aaney aeeeen Otft ye: oft aa: aT 
ur aa Ft Met Tea HT MATT LT ATA | I I 
feg Fae wae wi 4 sik gene FH a a fa a a Feet 

Sra | Aere, en, yet ste aia A oft qa at nfs ot aa FH caf 

AS Hl fs St aS VAT Vd SF 1 (UAtesA TAA ATT -& faa s 

gaa faa gan fe geal aaa ae ee ei 


ys Weed eeTA WTA ASAE 
RO Wire Tae S UdarTehaH aA: ATT Wt 
OAK H AAA de Hl AH SM SN Fest HT Ha ar ar Ww 
aed feat ear & 1 ate F qr (Hager) a APT a aT aaa Bra 
Ha wert cham & | 
Sart WeAT WAT wey oa, Wa Meare oad, 
SK WE A AA Y WWI Fa Teg waa Paeshe 1 eI 
geet tiarez vet Br We waa Ut A ra var fe wT oraes 
wet ar) Safty wes saa, wa Fea aT aH LH erst Tet Shea | 
az Ten aaa tt ett va wre A ax at SHA are yeat BT 
orn Gara cradt & 1 geat wt aa feafa ¥ qaer ort et aT 
arf @ fir capt Tiler ste F | 
qT Cle Mean Afser ragga ahaa: Warat: 
Mearcaarata 1 Ay AoA Are YMker: aie she ae PH: 1 Ww I 
gedt Meare veal aet SA wR ye ufes fern & ae cart a 
ga a zea anfe UE aaa Ba, (Sea BH aT se BA aw sie 2 
far geat Tiere 8) 1 aK aT ot gfe aa gare cram 8.1 feraaet 
are % far there & | wre ik ofe & one & wis sara AF 
aaa sufe att at Were set & (sta: geat ot rarer 2 ) | 


qeerrashe at Tara ATT ST AMT AYN AAT FI 
WHE ANI TAA ALY Ae eT YS A AMAT Sat: 1 Re 
geet at pe ci ard ot Hed S, aE ad star ANT Bt eat - 


wHafeats ao 2 


sitet A & rer Twa UTE oe fare Ah Ree A STA ae aR aE aU 
Te TSM | TT aH F ft sae sera set eT | 
qatreest feats Bz wart valet aT TRE: 
eattey TIT tara aT TT TTS Tata 1 Re 
qa & Sa we en aaa} Sa we at fafa wes overeat a 
wet t- ae et at ae 8 tart H Sue be eee 
er afe a Ae | 


fe at gaa Tez ey 4 ates favaer: 1 
vara qaretaat F yEvsyara PraterTery | zo 1 
Se eo eee 
at fagaed fears at den 
sexta, fararat aera wafasaed gare UT 
ae qhye we ad Use safacesind favaery 1 32 1 
TAT UST FRE a Taw wa F fava wa FH fern a-ae et 
werent us eat yest @ hry Fae fara ste geet wa wet FI 
AeMeTATS Yauea wrest aa qe fer: 
4 acre BIN aes coer forbs, fuearas Ger Tute: er (AU 
at: ot Hera gest, uta wax, yt sik aaa nfs ar acty 
B-See TART BE Nae Te | ata Fee ged eH ee FeRTT 
TAT F | 
ferarat ferdtret—q: ase: aq anita af ate qeraay 
are Ady se ate |@ aferd we farfrs 33 1 
iy shea so | peard afc arene we here wae Seat Pe 
 SrpreT H Malt wet Gere aeq ard geat oz ont sre Bi fee ot fara 
VaR are et fer qeat oma Area wt ace fre tet B 2 
fe arene dyed Ryd ger ET 
areal freterrat gamer afer ert ae t 
Fea ga wees a ufafer aaa, qe sik ax aha wea EE cha 
&, fax oft dere A Hed a fe ovare A A ga, -weH ak aaa AUST 
So eee aren St sm fee ge freer Woes Sr (SAT TATA) | 
HaRATS CMey: Yes AMT AdisaT | al 


Rew | faa ator 


SR SST A UH MI aE Hecht H ser wm %, Ta qa aT 
Fe Sree a er ee eee 
a 1 


fare wrga aT farcias aT Ht 
He WeSarat seer: aie gat feerar: 1 aq 1 
fayrat sit Fa Jes aT a BMT ESN WAGE (qadaga) Ww aE 
. ret Oey gree ae Re Tee Og Sa ee ew ese et 
fet Haga @ are 
faurarciser Weret Fat Tees TAT | 
AST MATA ASAT TATA | B91 
we ys wo fama zea Awe Rt Gi aa eA & a oie 
fafasr 3 cnr @ 1 ord aft ¥ ae ara qa 8 A sata cfs aa 
Hana ze 
Unreed xa: wa wrt Pref ar ae | 
web feat Ba WaT Ma VTA | Ae I 
. am wr: yates & aaa gee wa we fafa F orm 21 eae 
wet fe gd we ew TE (a) WH Et aw HUT 
fare WHE BU BT? 
ate Gar wa ate Asher aafeacay TAT TTA: 
Pra array afved ufved way ae Prag areas: 1 33 1 
afe gent fa gaa 8 sik Per sqan qi fer sik yeat nfesitear 
ew a aa Ht wret aa afosa Bt sat Vt ay ERI WAT EA) | 
“ort art ada ara wr fours AL ara Gar | 
7 4 gffarer ated eae Fifa: 1 
oifast tf farrer fe wet & farefares vo | 
ar F at ga yeat ar nfs ets Raa S ara: yest at fea ST 
* yerer wenfora 21 set wer ga at ata dt wera @ 1 ata: get ar fee 
atk geet at fasta art at ae saa B ? 
aera at wa: woraie feet Aart 
aeerfacts at o faa sat GT: 
Seerahy Cart Wed: Was 
wavate war ferfe wat gatefet ALi vet 


amafeate ai . Req 


aa ae ant 4 aedt eat ara A ar cafes stat ara a fee aa 
a acide & fee gait wr faata fesn ¥ aera ean eam 3, ae 
a San teat wet <td} arce era A ana eu tam 2 (art 
seat ara feat Sh) geal a ft ae ait feard eat wer chad & ( 
geal ait rife a amet feet tera, ga onfe aera ee chad %, sen yest 
a at HA Ht aH Bat Bs Tel aeE aay et CaM W arma sit 
3) 1 ea ah are ate geet an ufagitea art en @- 
er ef eftqe afer fet Aq st 
fane{ aft afe ar frat ae dt ys 
Ye Wager Yuwaferd ser areg | 
wer aenfege fea ast wae FET! xz I 
sa sae A afe ear oat fan AF ae a, cen are cafes eos 
Ba Ws SH Gat Hl Sig HL GT GS Hi A ae Was 1 et 
aay fern 4 seat 2 ged we eT vad aa ud G afer wt ae aed 
eam chat & 2 (aes stat oe oe fea St aH EAA & HT, vas at 
Tifa ware et ace eri are’) | 


afe waeetord safe afr wi We: 

Wet Sara qeahey ag AS aa: 

xe aha Weary Ys HET TAT: 

ama wanted waferd wdtat uit 1 ~a 

Sift qa S wae ary we aaal a od & fen fern ® fea F 

we aH ond & 1 va w afe Gen ea @ fe fe oe yt: ot at 
aH (Aaa BT Tera A) fest ver aera F 1 Ta wr Sas fH geal 
an ge te sik alt anfe ye at ace eat va vee ary Emr aaa 
snfe ufas fen 4 gaa arm a at oe sro sie & arpa yet st 
aH Tt HA SI 


Trahrart Fra yet 
featfa weet sorrattad 
Tq Wa fad waaTA ara, 
aa ugttate qaatg i xx i 
wast srara? ae sia (ae aret) geal A geet 
wl fear wet 8 | ae eden ae See WHT (AE) St F Pert 
waa ma eh ? * 


REE . fast caer 


Ufaat teste taderarsire Verrnreisdfre tary 
adidad aft at aaa adisty fe arf wa-ad wa ¥y | 
wel Tfaster QA wre GAR wl ATA aS -Rar sg weereh 
STAR He Ha FW eaat cad are @ fe wa seahe ea, 
aed at Ware I AR wa a vers Fare a aa eI 
re are FH geal wt ag (ret SA aren, steareh) Het BaF | 


wiser: fear aer qer fetta fe qraafa wea | 
wraTaT Ueaaar aa we feat aaiftar qe: 1 xe 
afe ara gad fra ae wea & (sraig, eae vfs eta & are 
word Arata @) a wfea-geel an ary feet sik stare Fat Ea ? Fa 
SUSIE SATS IT CTEM Se TMNT. S.C RE SON Br RTT 
saat ara aa fast 3 war 1 


7 Weg AtHeasTAA AT TAA arava ae Tary ale 
Ter der fahtarar TAT TATA HATTA HI WATT | vw | 
aq arava aro afe saa saa aa AT WATT at AAT 
ee eee eee 
fag at at fafa frarea € | 


ares ATHE TATA WAT TACT: VAT aT 
ARTA THT BH AT TM Tare: aT adit TWAT ve | 
Wa ant sreiia ot qe sf we fra WHR Soy ret Oe TT 
Me ae Taz sik afar wis sea F set sett Han A stat aa 
a ara S 1 Ste Sat ver ued ft aw aa Kw PE & as ae 
war A yadt & - afe Bar Gent aa e- 
Tene wha: wiegastaeres ares feared . 
Seah wife fret qatar Sexrrarhws Werte | xe 
aarafe wet St fe wie a ae arr ef frat aeq at nf ett & 
atk ute ower at @-onant wie x at aH ae steno whe 
(faara) KG SX HT aH- 
WYATT AAMT FBT Weer ATA Aa | 
waraae hers froseeacafeaate frei Fat yo | 
Tt Sat wer at etfs geet Hot ert arfea eilfes wey aTEes 


a BR Fat Taha WIS eat Sri 1 fag yeat wt faa wis fears 
wet Sct | gett ware yeat a us fret ott aeq BT AG sat RK WAT 


wteatearta aia | og Way 
sft aet Chea | | 
wien ate aniscedt wat a he saddest 
wafedt aa aaa tre: feadtervary wRadars: 1 ue t 
yea} 8 SR Sao Har Ww ae amy wa & fora tt fat sa as 
BRT Set UW PAT ear aet Fart Fw Gad sik WH MUG UW HE 
Wea Te (a) Gea FI wR aE FA ea sera Chaat z | 
a wacarnbra: ator farts were erat Tare 
whe gar at aera SS ort a Praffe wfowag 1 4 
fardl tia ag at aes af cect @ abe at ela aa |B ETNA 
ae taht @ sem Sewer yest wel a wR yet et Hs ST strepdoy 
aM & 1 Saar ea St wis ara srapeE sik faferr see srprer 4 
MT # ea cit Raa F 1 Hay steal WW PAT Al era FH snaHdyy sik 
faa Sx at sien wet Chaat & | 
et eargafoeie wr 7 ar oferete Taher 
waists faarereant 4 earener far where 1 43 1 
wat wer afe uct & Sx a a wt fade six stanton wis & 
wR yeat Vat Tat & A geat wi nfs qa wr fee A Se | yaa geal 
& Uae at A ware She CHT ITH SPTH Tel CET | . 
arent afecaee afe rare sate UH eiarwaeet 
Faretate was: AT AaAAACT AE: HerfaT 1 wel 
uedt & yt & ant ace ga vert Ey @ fatal Vat & fra ve 
wm fer eat sei Uta set eit ae wet ata ett aet fer set ere | 
fear aren aft adam veg frostrrar yfrea: 
Tama ae Gat Ales aq ws Aa AAA 1 Gy I 
Sta Rha fers Gent wa Hl we Wet & aa afe 
geal at aft art ara at saat Ger ad a afosa Set Baw H 
wart Fat a 
waaet arates fe aad fey FEF ag YE WANT 
PIAS Tay forse ATM (ooo) PIMTLETAAM: 1 4G. 1 
get un fea & one uftfe & aa wert oft ae aw ara 
Ut we vet at & wat er | feed eat al VPA gQooo Bre BT 
RW Per wa a « 


REC | farerat cuer 


We arvare fattest Te (¢,00,000) WT WAT AT BI Aa WT 
WT are wen: way 2e att ea aris wae: ATT Ye | 
uedl at ge fee 4 thre aft ¢,00,coo HA B- AE Wa atH z 
wera &, Fe uftfa a gaa Sner Ha erm ? fer ae yt fee wt say 
aa R uta fay qa aac Fe, fee geet at fa aha Ga ade 
H Ha St ard z ? 
gam fee, zea art wese: Gores fe 
— Yatingaat sa: Het Wrest aT 1 ue 1 
era aor A NA EU cafes at ys fawn A nf a eit (we 
ug) ! 
fe anned aft qa: aéeeta Ae 
SUT A aT ate Prat ofa yea 1 4g 
agar geet at ured nfs (art stat oe nfs) wae ( Hens) 
ae afe ara & Wt ae Frant (arepfas) ser safe (pis stat gE) 
wrt fra fat afe eI 
Taher eeticer arat ator at qa: 
aged wiht ATATSATS WALA T WATT 1 ko | 
anes aa @ geet at caress aft qa & aren Hs eros aE 
warafae ad 1 whe cad wera & fact & saeco & set 1 ara: 
We Tear srw et Fi Ta HR yest wt as wha & aa W ae 
ae Ar Ael aH zs | 


faye aerie San tea 
armaicqeice: wrarcera fogs: 1 6 1 
faqagd & ada wa a wes cant saa 4 area fen 
% ak sat sat F Sens fern F chaar Z| 
Tear eae wha eT aT, 
awerarad aTyqed Fa aq weft 1 G2 I 
Tet a ft at ae geal er nfs afe faga pat & seria eet 
Wa at ace faa scarigqe era, ae faa 2 | 
arora fade qerati 7 aq faq: 
Weld HIT AAet Syed BAATT 1 3 1 
wera 4 dha ee aa ahs (see) saa A char en gfe aA 


yeaa aor BER 


aae ara art set stem, faepa yn aet EA a geal BA ara 
ant at ate wadt & ? (sata faga aa A HS nfs et aed F 2) 

@ arfad wag Hert yas efreet 

ash ward afafefa ware Brey | 

great OB Gog afettiears: Aaa aq- 

ee wfat vata faa ca ea art Peper | ex I 

aa SU Ha Ha Hl Saya A her a, ta GH B sreHiet A ar 

HT Asa F, A Ga A re ASS A TAH VAY Stal W WA 
art fa ar fae A et er 2 i ferg edt faqa wen FH amt sa 
wm yA F 1 WM saw sea wha art a wit nfs & 7 


afe srt srt sata act art wet 

farfaet svat afaft aaer arta qed: 

ear yaferares 3a efor aq HT TAT 

UeaeN fe Ae: wafer Eat TgeT 1 Gy 

ws faye Wt fs TE A ST aT A EU farsusa A ae 

%, afe geet ot sat wer faqaari a gaa eu aha ant oe nfs weet 
& at yedt & aim veal o oe anfe fen @ faa qa sik adit at 
Hy Nhs Baa fa WHR Aaal St sea stem stem fen A Aaa zs 


HM Gaea vatt afaqye fiat 

Wa: Heras aes teafe afr qa: 

fesirafan erent apr ag qfker frafeag, 

efrerat gyre J wat wat fest 1 eg t 

amet wean Ga (set Re faga ga 4 nfs) & area are ygedt afe 

awira ga a qaffirget a a, a arta qa & tet (ett ga a aca 
& wen BA) & aren erha aft wer sax sik figoht fee A sa a 
Wat Vat SIM (AT BH GAM Aten wr vet) afe AX Aa wr TA Fa 
wer ste At a dt Fa sa e fH ga sae A aaa qd wh siz 
wept aife A ed BH aren (chef aera HT Ege HT aT A) ret ait Ag, 
den & are F fren & arr Ber dean area 1 (HR ar Ae 
erm) 1 


fate wacafy mfr ata azz eet 


Yo Perera adr 


wat ver =e am aha art (fasesa) sed ae SA ar 
Te a Hee A yest afaat at up ef van chad atea | fag 
ae ot vet etn, ax cies fa Fe oer (feem) F ged @ chan 
& (3a: Weer & ya B yeat ar wT Ae Sta) 


Saris wear eeera safe gate 
afer wuinpeaca GE: Vest TATRA | Ge | 
afe Pent set & fe gi Sx an saree eM w ot ued) a nfa 
aa at fen Aa text wha ga a gfe wal we) gear & are @, at 
ji wem fe sat gle wal se gear B geal feet we TaA eeraat Ae 
at 
ofa aefe afexer wrared a-rat Agha: 
sTSsy Ae AA: CATAa fe AST Aq STAT | ks 
afe ast en & ara gt 8 arene & (Ue Hea B) A ae yeat 
3 ft eat tet eh (srachr wis act ast aeq H et BS eri ? 


PRIS HMA HII AL Facile fave: 
arate arora wate Pat er a eat 7 AT: | wo | 
frag Sret tie qasw wt as favs Ht Gta & 1 gaa ae faat 
fH srt wie ar arco faos ar ast BAT Ae, Sout ee ea 
(Tatita) ‘ute & 


afte gs xed sata qearedor ser- 
Ad GR eet wry His aH Ta aay | 
. waraat a arate + words aeral- 
da: wafattoges qrafecer aeradt 1 wz 1 
TT BAM K at ale Pert Het & fe ast aeq oe a ata 
wadt & w wet weg as a aet TAT owe fe ze TTA aa 
faa et ae ara aera @ 1 fore ea (Stet aT as) A area Ber Ae 
Beet Pere ae Shee aah Et ae oreg wt sre eT are TIP 
Rel WATT BY Feat * sets B | 
Terrase eer ay Ay Hatt Tea 
Wert: Saat wor werar weer 
wer were: Fae ASM Wea - 
_Breitat cterarrastans wage 7TH: 1 wt I 
fora VaR arena H feera Be Fa avs wt fears at geet WH aT 


ymefeata aor . oz 


. ast at Tread oftaear aed & sat var gear Hl goat B Brey yea 
at afta fret a st wet & are frags & ctreptrar & fer 
HUAN Bt 


qatarsa wer at fraraq weal sat Arete Te: 
at eft ¥ fact cafe acre wer Asher cata: 
ase cxfar fe safratfe wary Aa AAT TAT, 
wae wa cat a faqs cad: Geafe ata ARTI OR | 
qa aft ara we emt sa wm gaa B11 ea HT H aT gest FH 
feet teat H en fate 3 2 Ha aa % sik St et We Tah aes 
apfaarg vet @- ferret Sram canta 8 Aa aM 1 saa aa HT TTA 
a wet at nf ae of a free & ax at (A Sat ay) nfs eat Tet 
ze Wy ? 
auf steamer wrafr weet Satna 
qa ae q Fer are frag ashe way: 
ware W va pie waa afar fy sar 
wet piste are WOT BLOT Arafat TATA: | wx | 
ged Wel Si ae sonel Sl GA set a BAT AeT Ete War fe 
sree At e a Ar Hea & fe. yeat onfe wet a Gs & ma st 
wares 8 (a gl wr aa come 8) wet Garr ax onfe sonet aT 
yeah safe met are = (sane ot ret Ga Wet HT aa TT EI 
ws aife sone ga & ware siz ara west wea S (Sat We Hea B) 
ae Wf aT arg Beary set Bo (sta: Vas Bit aa & fea we soe 
TAA &, STy stat Ue WATT fara wat aaa et B 2) 
fesaren fava arse cfa wfeaqe: ax yt: wee 
mPa: TET (go) Ute fefdfera Ta TH (aQy) afat: wHae 
ates aridatrary STAT (22) WTA: TegT (AW) TVS 
watt waft Sra ares TA Aa: AE Ta: TAT: | 0h 1 
usat ge & aga wer sik Free wear Go eos FH ean (3771) 
we ae 3eu fer AH ge ar ws ay ga wet 31 gees va a 
SSA SX EA SR 22 ad Be a Ga HUM Fw yea @ aed ast 
Sr ut ft Seer say seat ae (<a) WATT WU aS (Gea F BIA A 
toa) 3 et He St orm 1 gee erm & fH A aay HE Fras 
wet ta, FAA TATA SY year St WANT 2 | 


sz faera aio 


Aet VEN AAA TAHA Ta Ha ATeT TA: Wat zfs 
BAY Ve Acar (2) fer: Het Wy eer: cafe sages | ve 
(qeeafa siz geal ara wey waa & aga) afe wer wa fie 
aS VE BS AIT WAT BS WE S Ast Slat ST es SH Sag WT YW 
fett ¥ wit dra & from fora qeaafa @ aga ae 8 | sae AT 
qeenta & Ww qos wag BHA er aes a | 


ferara fertrrott-aetrerat aire ater strat 

fart ofa: & afore aeatt 

Wes Y CAT SAATAAT 

amt fafaar aa aeq Wes: | BT I wo | 

fara urenrt tia ste SIT HT WOT Sq Bl -B, VT St vitae, 

we at ae, we at afsra, ara an Afaeiter star sat ga 
SEN) SUT 05 Sees Mem NY ese) See eT EE AT 
oxifes fafaa 2, soar wre aarers aeT | 


We Fe Few USt Terafeacrad fe aca 
Rertistrea earegita warftert frent cea Yar: AMAT: | ve | 
art % eet ot fast stat 24 we ae Sa ad @ KR HS HT AT 
Ban Aerdta Sa Bt Fat WER was (srHTS) A SHE strep wt gealt 
feax @ WH Us sear a anfe fa vita % Ril ae eaora 4 et 
eae | 
Fret: A AT Wer TTT eA: 
qearte yeraisehal FATT: A ATs ws | 
ara Ad & wet ay ares VA HT eT aa B ar ang fate 
any wet & 1 SAR Fa A Tae sey OTE & ones | es TM | FT 
Fae sg uw ATS? 
wert Prfere eae Aas aT wert aT 1 
aetna feanfa: fer derataT WAT t Zo | 
arent aa pe tt Ri a By, sas 4a a UH wT wT ST Ae 
sae sq frat we at ahr nfs amt aco fea Ha) ae AR 
pooner & arpa thre aha (me aT weg aT HEN aTaT fer) UH 
aaa & 1 (ata: Tera A ag oraz Tet Bra ) 
aden Hart Sx Bq qeavSsTy 
aerate fart: Het vals qat WaT cz t 


amefeata ai SB 


afe weit wat St wen & ax A eel aesa 3 dyed a te 
ae Upe G4 (2) FS, Yow TAM ( 2%) AM We VA HT HAT: 
wera etaa urea: aiseife ca wat fira, 
 meraftiahh: watttda, fre: xix ree 1 621 
(3) Fea ATA TENT (2) ests eer | sar ore H were TA TA 
sire at auftfa @ 
wd deen wife fafearat pet ect | 
wear att feat at a aah ere 1 23 I 
at Gee wl TE IE ST KH aE Gd wa ST aT A UM A 
@ ht va & free fers (Ga & gad ae & He F aT F ) 
ate antec dea: wie: cafere: PATE 
wert feet (A-4R) Uist UTAH: (Y-yw) GACT: 1 cv | 
sires afte ape & gay fore Sr S cafbraree ara AY awa RTT 
US HA Hl BAC Wa FI. 


amare ferrat ket areft (7 a2) Pafererst: (3 33%) 
Wreacrraag. seag aftfawarg | 24 1 
FF: ae St ward (geat vt aH aT Ha aT) A TEA we HAT: 
26R (ATA) AIT BBV (MH) He HI SRK cham & 1 gat wer aq 
Tet at at Fe cra 


aed af trary aa Tear 
wy eda: adqeqercat aera: | ch 
at: Upe yt BW Ay, Wow HI Ass Ta Aa AS, VAT ar sa 


ee AT ST wR ey a at wet aT He Ax ST ci For 
Fe BA SF SAH VE Aas | 


aradrettrag arta gH, frarate + ATT 
Tei ae Harfaq s warghy: 1 ce t . 
wreareta =e (Sta Wet Fa Asya A THT UH Het PMT 
UST ata ae ArT ran fe star FH ae Het set) AA Fa fate a 
rit Ta fers erat F 1 sta: wel aa ste tae aa ae gw sik wa 
a4 ote vet etm | ara: ae va H vet Ara | 
warernt sftraq sed erica: - 
— Maria ata ere gH, fers: ardarferat cc 


W¥ feet ether q 


sors te ee ma wen A HE Hw | 
sHrars ga w F | q 
Cpeld Aft Hx frararaya qraa: 
frsira taaree sae ofa Aft a 1 ce 4 
ee ee ee ee 
ape vf at ae ovata adt & sik oe oot sae tan a ange | 
St TE GAA wad Baa Bae aET Ble qe ra F q 
WHS FN TY TT SR Hered Taree qa ! 
Wie WeawaTed Ferd Alea, att ar qachoa: ATL I got: 
Ware HWA Ys HI AHA Sea SAT aM NaH Ws 
ee ee ee 
faa Bt apa @ | 
fearat TaAeIsTAVSe TATA AT ATT AAT afar 
ATHE HAM: Yat wary qaraa: wis wT Are 1 eV 
farg srreprer F Sta Get H ere A STI stat ( TTT TS) 
wR BA ey Gs B snain F are qu ante we aha ga H Haha 
at aaa & | Saar freed at ga A eT ) 
varia ava Haran gat faq: wares qq warts V1 
wer eter aft fercear few ward: Far gia azar safat 1 <2 1 
soft a art seni erent yeat wordt & ae geat & sah a 
wa wer & 1 afe ker & ah ae ot yet at ae ort aa a EA 
ai fee Hay wr ares 3, art feen 8 at a were 
fava sift warirpendt fatevatreate fagagaory 
TUG Wate qa Uds TY qaq fadteracn Wal HAT 331 
ak ft, ge & srator & aren yest wt afa aia pa FSA a 
(gect at stat oz fa tt set aa A ert) ae faye fer me ga UH 
wry a cham (faga aa a) 1 Ge ged at aria gu nfs @ spe 
Se te Se re Seer ay ee eee eaeatge 
geet ar fear ert faa 2 | 
acdia at wenedida wienags tenet aa 
ufa cronies sravsarat Ae Ug Wa FAL ey 
were, vitsira sit ora onfe & aro we at aa, Aa oe aa 
afar: 4 srafeerfa ert B-ga Ths at ant feet ara ge arecfaa 


apirateats ae ish 


ga wet Ta 


aa eee een 
qed Uae weld sahara AAT: WAST: 1 M4 1 
% fat Ga aH sara (at sant sigea fee at wean) & | gat Han 
Howe SR (fra o Hers tra ga Han a fre farg KH HET 8) 
aa @ | Taney cm faa var ve afd at wR (qe) ar sede 
ak faaa aaa &, SENS a 8 Nee Sacre ee eT 
aaa ATH @ 
ee 
tar ata tyerat: yfweat Starear: araaere faery | eq I 
afe veal ft ora oel & war ar ara at geet @ oeR A aga 
ast Geeta Wa & HNN aga q (sa a afar fern 4) eit aT 
are & 2 
_. faa eats ae ea fe ares ye WATT Se I 
Prarie sey wee TR ax hit AT 1 gy | 
We & aa yeat oft at & fra] &, w yedl an ww at are 
faara eat set dt? Se at ura ah fa fara arr fake set & ara: 
Te A yeast RCI HY VAT Ts ZB 
facat verte fracty Aeit era wre fayaraty 
ga, franarard fe card we warara faa fate: 1 ec 1 
afe gen aa & srqan yest an faera dia wen ArT Sra at faq 
ak ama feafa 4 Fe & ore we ca fers Tet ET | Herd: DET, 
Brn, waa ak ama anfe adi fas B aM 1 
at: MMerad Vs Aantadtad fray Waren: 
qe Wed: aaa amt art Ff wrha Fas wayitaT 1 eg 1 
geat ar ek Tet aay ae wa Fes St STAM | ata: Yeatt at fear 
at St fara 3 1 dat eit 8 area ee a ys wa EA OT 
at otha de vet Sat 1 gaa At gest fee area Art 2 
Bor ta afer wa aa FAM qal WTA Wes AT 
Aq Be Hart wed Sx feast yea eft AMET TATA | foo | 
geal at wf ara @ Tae MK AMAT usal @ | rae ae Wat 
Bt Fi fre va PER aa a a ar en set Bb Te Wa eA 


WE | fast ai 


a & yeaft a ee aet ® qi free ft wert qd & oom wen 8 
Fa Sy TT Ga Sw Kit Tet Aa Bi? 
armed ae Ae STAN Wea AAW aa 
qa fe aeeiag: gfe: wattanieata aT ATT 1 yok 1 
Ter aa & fe gt & wel vet & wa yest 8, Sas aw 
SR & fae sie wet St ae Yealt ar MR eT 8 1 Tat as a Aa aT 
2 fe oat at oe qa at afta wea %, we eal fear 2 |) eae 
ot yedt sract &, Tae ores onuht Fit 7 
q aftion sta yer afe eq: wefarrerfears, fer: 
wart areata qa Ae Me Arestaaah AAT WMeMTsT 1 tort 
ate iret safe wet ar TET geal & wars Ss sie era ot get 
at ae & qd FA sraeT A fra ver wa ae at dw am 2 siz 
seh WER 3a Wel & feos & Fea ary F Ae eat atk We & ata 
STAM BT Hr SLA | AE Kit Ael Sea 2 
gorse piedt were dearetat: qx Prawn: 
fare anfad va geal arr wet Beg Beit WATT TA: | 03 | 
ae ype ar fare acta &, geet or fare fret an oi a4 8 ast. 
& 1 wae we @ fe ve Ga Mf Tet BI ota: yest a feet atke qa 
ante aT wer APT FH ares Tee . 
“Tea SUA Yea HET FI AT aren Tas TAT: |: 
A HAATAAAT WEY AMMA ALYT Va ATEL | Yow | 
fast & free an er at aoe aed aa aren 2 | fred Fa 
Sim & 1 a1 Wel aa sella fos SFO TT UM ay AST SAT 
aa: Fe wet haar | (ae wet ard wha: aera B) 
wee Tae wfwared aft ahavsh dag area 
AS UT BRST ASAT TATA WATT WET TA 1 You | 
GH sos FS SRK Hae: TST sik set fos Tea B fra 
WHA UW SVS UHSA B SST UNAS eM F, Ta IM St A Hz 
wee € Sa I SEH Ga A cew Ht A a 
qaey fossa Geant wiasd TT aa WEY 
aearad Teer aoa Ten fearat witaferarar 1 208 1 
Bet faes as ga 8 ae as fies Ve ga F wry SM 1 yeat 


qrerfeatfa SOTA . — WW 


ax a aw eet var Stet otk SST favs AA aK 


A AK HE Ufa farsa Hey aoa: frsfard a aes - 3 
a ee sata ae ta carter Acarft Tag, AcvlaT i Yow | 
aati or areas gd fra F use & 1 ara: ga fast wy srraret 
eq 8 atk feet Ara aT 2&1 Ta aR ae we feed yea fare aa 
Hw RX wT HT eT 2 1 ate a ® fer otk geet & aa eA aT 
aet HIT sig aara & A gaa al ce 2B 
GL TAA TARAT (4,22, 3%, 20,0, 4 Rig wots) 
Te (¥8,0¢2) Fare aeat, FATT, 
(4,92, 8¥, 82,88, 33,43,662) BATTRAMSE 
(29g) Wer Aaa (2a) MH ATA act 
(2¥,40,00,000) Ted BIMNAH FTAA ITE ASAT 1 god t 
i at Tas se F yarHe F aqua He Ta qeeata F AM 
geet oa & eH ) A aM eA a 
WH, SREY, BSB 8343662 _ cee | BG 
GL, 73, ¥2 00, VEL, Vols 
srr & | er Hm ote ce art | eee ad she Te at 
ad aT ar Fay Wy 
R¥,49,09,0900 = 2g Ro Re HA BAT Z| 
eae 
aaa tea TAR TAT AAT 
Se, Tex Afas tanvsarefa 
ASS TT YT FT THT (2,223,269) AeraAT, 
TG WATT SET HH HEAT 1 28 | 
aa: TF HE A 2,2 or Bra a HK a Hz ert ares | ea 
PTATS VV VV XY B, TW A HE a al F sna A Ho HAT | 
St: A aR feat var gs fars F aet sre & 1 ara: gel at feet 
& faa aay at are fea & ae dt set BI 
sata qaf frpaca fafa: wdaern arate 4 
wae Terai PST AeHeTa THT HAHA FHT 1 ko | 
et tt yt es at aH att Wet Sr Sa WaT BVT Hie TAA 


fers erat & 1 fiat sa gat ae AT BR AR Ae HT HOTT Sit RB 
%, Sh ge fara % orem 3 


Wwe facart ator 


qT aTetay Te ASAT Wey wae Wea ae Ay ATET 
HaTEs Yds aK Aw Waser fears t eee 
Wet St AR ATT Aet SM AHA Sta: SAH A BX HT oaTSAT Frees 
& | Brat ste ferarat & fea & foe a Ae & vs 4 saat wat af 
me | 
Wea Tan iT ae seq tar aftresciiear 
AeIad Wt ee avs Y aNha: Tare Te a fHfeaq 1 ez 1 
qeadt Fa & HR sant Tae W SA eK a Uda & feraz as 
aa F gaa & 1) aa: saat nfs (ace at aia @ afaa ert 2&1 ate 
sae fra & wer fing ara a ae saa ate ara ® fas a oe 
ue at ace fiom 1 (gedt wt ufa yet fee 48) 1 
q weer Wa wad Hehe feared aeasraws | 
gary warae areas worry feet arfe ata ae: 1 223 | 
geal vet I @ Ven ae sim se siyan Fray 8 | A aa a 
yaa SR & fH sae aH YaTA Var ok aa B vis | ae wt 
ae uta wet & | 


Teta aasagqgen way yatad Tae Te: 
edt seam tear: wre: wey agra: 1 gee 
ga arg @ warfaa eter are aa sufe ura: ye wt siz ot ater 
ye at aH BH ST & are cent atest Ue HY aeH fra Z| 
aa: wafaq wife udeweta amie acrait wor 
Wy wae wag awd eae ahs easy Tada | veh I 
ata: Feat carear % fay geat wr war ay St srETa TET BI 
TAM tara F atk Sar F saw wat Ux fara ear 1 Was Ae 2, 
at xoq Ste aha at aw et fret feat ea F 
Wat WET TET WEST TET eT TTT aT TAT 
STATENS Aaa TEA YO qreae fararhy wr: waAT]A: 1 eq 
wi fs ax a ve x oe ad wt Ue at ed Hea S| aT WE 
al gad mr Um aa coma A faa waa cM & Ta WMT Sra HEN 
1 
wrecrefa: BE Aaa F eett aaa Bara: 
Taceraeaty anter a anteare St VATTITA: 1 Be I 


ymefeate act _ 3 . 9k 
gd @ ue at a a oF den Te & a ara & ot ar arya 
wWss West Ass aq 
AST: MTT (Ru) FE: 
WATETH: (Gc) ATH HAT TT. 
AMSAT MS TATA: (B13) 1 Vee | 
wet et & faa wars Sra 8 1 yedt  perevar (ae4 fea) ae 


He HB ANT Ha (ae fear ) & of Hr srqaTa | 
(iret pTT)® eee 


cau ae YR = B.A 
Psst TAY TAT AT (¥,\94,00,000) 
wre ato wae Ferra: 


AIA CAATHTRT TATA (19, %2,4o.000) 
wre ates anterarty 1 eee 
ei a geal BY Sel (¥%,\94,00,000) aa aan set at aa 
(19, 22,40,000) HTT B | 
weg: Qiay eae qe wag eK Gee verre ere 
PA ES eet SHA Sa Aeigeasnls (MINE PR eet 
(etre gO) _ 08,22, 49, zeal 
(qeat eth* ——(%,\94,00,000)* 
MTT AH aN Ta WH TT Ser at aS arqurd dat att HB az 
wl atrqard geet atk tre & fea war & 1 re fray HI Ger & 
STM OH Bie sma geal Sr wT SAT warfora wea Ss a A aha 
faated a art ¢ 1 atk aga at oad wet weaf 1 
4a ard qatate ereoned ta warea wat 
ardisqara: fart erat ant ate: wet weft 1 22 
fort ore & ard vet eta 1 afe qe & say aa Ke WATT 
rer See aE TH geal TE me GNA E 1 Te wet a get ae HTT 
wl arias wa aa shar FI 
wafreantt atin we: wae wfueat gat s Taq | 
aaa tH fre a UY ASa THAT (24) 
fey WAS TAAL 82I I 
ate ae crafter seve Hee Arad & at Mee wet & 
frre aq & war) ate ae ve A a sae Gt & art att Hr TT 
TTS Ry feat Gea aia | Hilfe aa ar ga fers Wl wT ATT otaT. 


= ZU = F/R’ 


Roo . farsa zt 
ia aa iGaRiaee Kae eae IN 
Te Wea Fe areca farardied wae qa: 1. 
Taiisa Hx Utah seat eae ye wesherscaht 1 2a 
at: %a we at nesters at et So ot Gs & farars (rare) 
% aren ent wife ae qt we S wer ean 2 
ASAT (2,90) TAF 
SEO ae 
Sealy stunts craw eh garenee ele aaa 
ea gt (ae aT caraTS = 2,2xaRlIR0) BTA FBT TF 
(20,8G, ¥3, V3, KO, Wo SCRVBBol BT FT BA HF GT A aT eH 
qe & ay are ce fet S PM SA HAA G1 GR AVS Sa FI 
TATA: TAMAHTAUA TI] ATA ALT GATSH APSHA (G12) 
ae WA Ta aN Set fears at TE fae eATTAT | Ry | 
We AA (Gi4R) CUS St Ge SH Say ST A TAT HTT SIT ATES | 
saat set fae gd ump fer 3 at sat we awe A UH Oe a 
wort afea sit far wa ge arr (34 fer Huw aT) H fawg 2 | 
AAT (Yq) MTETaTAT: Ws Ware ae F war: fer: 
Taras werarer ast tea wat aTat af ATASATT 1 kG I 
Wt: Ufe get ar Srey atest WL WATT HTT AG fet AAT STS Aa 
sufe We & aor are (eco fea) aot at ef WITT HTeT (STAT SAA TR) 
(24 fea) & at S art eH 


WHT BSA FLAT TA Ta Hed AC VA AeT ATTTT 
aed frardadish fragt, TE AMT TH ate APs: iz 
wet Snes St adh Ba A ary AAS aM Wer ST VA Fat Preprera 
@ 1 yaa qa & frag ar Va orm 8 1 ae areafarm AT wT ag 
yen et | 
wana fret wrt faeaaa over fet a fares ae fifa: 1 
warm: tne tered: ferret woreda: 1 22 | 
wa ver afe ga fers ar art dhe aa St ay at were 
BROT SHB MMT HIS Wea Sra F se aT Te Stew ATTA WR fart 
AM Nera stat & 1 Fa wee Bel at Saar St wT are Sik faraaTs 


patente ai a a RR 


ae ge re Pn 7 ee 
fra a Ha eT ? - 


meat wlaat meron ea: wuiceae ck a 
ARTS UH Wel WA TH TAS HR rae 1 xv 
ste srt aan A qe wel op af war wea ee Ae arfe Wet 
ant fae 4 ward 8 a ox tet we awe ET EA a Vite x eT 
ad, & St Rat genfe aan Ay anf H ufa qa an sredt 1 ae a 
za Ten site an Ae ane ar ete eR eT eI 
edits fant: weroftfets starfeari we 
aa wend Ufee watt ca qeoat wie at 
wt aaa UE TET: wig wd Tei 
q al aa fen fears vat are ee a PTT! 20 1 
aie set wae ner a 8 ae ofa qa & waa free ae aaa 
az feera gerfe cen Aerie FH ae ae Sle B 1 ret safe Tet wT Vie 
ait THA UH WH aT Ste Fi Gea Gs S sect fee H (qed a 
ga at fesn a1 geet) 8 ik sat @ vite Hx fear OA & HET 
ae arn afar ware & fie ga wet & are geal wt gefaron we | 
area ae: Fae ufths cana oxaa 
gate gfefer aatad yf We: WATHCTT I 
wires welt Pefsaefrs FAs HTS AA | Lae! 
fara wert % tet at ax ufefer dit sie otf ert % 1 ae 
ae uff (ta) Gl A geat Bt fee A fea uta ERI spe ea 
S| ot: We In Tae sige are 8 spe Hine frag a TT TH 
fos wena sat, ae vitoae @ ater sifeen ern BAe he 
x are ten era 2 | 
TAA eH I A 
Wrres. aT faa: Weer 
FR HR AMA EMT 
aeardadh & OTT { HaaTHhg 1 az! 
ae OT Vite Ga FH Gha AM TRH HT BTA Se AS HK BH HTT 
wie wot aaa sie wea onfe aes Ga & aerer ret erat | (EF sk 
UT te ag St are 1) 


RR , faara aduy 
afer fafa abet: fafa cfr area 
Bpeset wa ted: waa fe qasawr:. 
wer tf ta: ofemntt waa seq fart 
SU AA BATH GASAA FH HTT 1 3B I 
tire st Ae a we Ufa ste geal Set st afte Hea Bae 
tre ait vite at chal } aro ae fea & fe 4 Tel & arfates 
veat sik yt 8 re uw saa GM 8! ae ta at fee aT 
ara at er Det or ga fers aa Ae a Wa ei ott: ae Tae fe 
SA Wel Hl BaNsit HI Us aA (we Gs Hi wat cmd @) Gt yea & 
ant aH BAA Fe | 
aft oT yarese Teas: Bey Aca: fee: 
wards wer aftaa taaate qh: Aft: 1a 
Ufosat (Uraea) ST a & fos AT WOT SSI SX LST Bh HI Tat 
Rerfa feax area Stet @ 1 Afar eet gen (qd aan gat & aa ara 
ART TT) SETS AH stem ster erat FS 
wat: uftaritere: Tere RANTS ATT, 
fate areat Ter Ana: SAW AT ME (6,loo) Tas TIT 1a I 
ary ya ot amet afta (vet) & age | GA a aaa free 
sit art (qt & St wns) & saat Gs a at, yet @ at aw att ar 
(Zoo) Wet . 
Trash Geagen Herta aTatet Tay 
Tea: OAT TA MT HAA: Te Ae ews TA: 1 3q I 
frat ar yt a tt as S11 ae at Se sat SH eat wT Ha 
Uf srr ae THT EP ora: yeat 3 way A ape St at at Ata chet 
usdi 2 | 
fa egy AAI Y AeA CAAA: FAA: . 
Sears ors Here afer Tet UT aT Frere 1 eget 
afe Fa WHR dh etre feat ara at AR Aa H star yer YF 
wrt at & 3G WM att Ut aaa BUSS Yeast at afte via fer Ha 
ee ee ee ee eens an ee ene 
WE 06, WW = ECL VI9, VE, VEO TTT ET ) 
aq Qnite vers vite afte atid grat 
arard We wer Tse feat fran a aw Aha: 


wreafeata aay : RB 


Ge whe aq ae Sea AT wre et Aq wA- 
SATAY wT ATL Ta: IATA WHAT: 1 RC | 
wave Frc waa aa atk faeg wera 8 site uftfes ar srag 
g sie cram & ata: AV aa & arqan fear wean vita wot A stew Z 
ares a ae yet at ye foe 8 nfs a& dina vel 3 ae ora 4 aha 
al avert @ ee erm i 


q fre aqeat age ae asain creat 
Tae Ba URearaAt Tea BATT Hs farfaeq 
sradeHarat safehs carafe Ta CyCTAT 
cetacraty: fertia waar fasfrra aaa: 1 23a¢ 1 
qed) Brat AH ST A (aH ard A) Cea & AA Us Aa 
sey SR Vase (AAA HVSE) F fa waa w cham @ yal aei a 
wo” SRT HIRT SIAR OR PHYA Brat (aT ah strey) H LEA wz aay Geet 
Jaq WMA AL’ HA (wo / 30) ary wl acs St chan aes | 
qe oraert facpe Tet chat & are FH ueat ar et fear aa T 
at ash Act ted Aaer fH wear 
Aas AS SA TAT Yat afer Hr BT ANTI! 
wa a ge aeft wat art great fad 
Fa BATT Haft soy dar aaa FST ASTI exo | 
gas fer & atk wom vet ae ara ot ara vet He THAT 
Sa BRT saa fA a sraazige B 1 Tat sik clam wa AH sraarsza 
FBO Was HT AT wae cha & | gaat carseat ule wey few ae 
wifa aa & aert & SR Sak Tas SR AawTMVSa SI AT 
deat 1 aA ae aa 


qatariga wcrat ofefaar a ae 
anTaaaraare Recast Frere 
Wrereaer, 4 ge faferar: wardteaat ud 
Teta wae chat ate Maria THT eve 
yatarat 4 ca fas ot aesi ar. gate six exist frat wet aT 
ant ft ae sam oh 31 ett ga a ae oie aarti at fee at 
@ ten vet etm 1 ate: wrt aed aaa ayE EH cit Saray aera 
ean cram @ 


Set WT Aa wes Fafa fata 
Wer, art wafer wat frerctar aftr 


. 226 : ‘ fararra xu - 
freq Shfrdfieva wagelag are 
aq fF earha fife + frat are Weare WT eve I 
ae ar ara wera, saat oe @ ofr at She fa @ vata Sr 
%, fe yedt fee & 1 pret (are) 8 afe qt & waa ara feor 
Safa Sa WM Ua wm sree fara ae sl aren (UAH sree Aa 
udia err & fe apr ga & Gar vere aa Aet F 1) 
Wy aR Ba WOT Fee, Seaa Fara, 
WT ETS AA (¢) Hera corer Wars: 
geste ata eft cf enica a fare 
art dara wae ARs: ATT ATT: 1 eR I 
fare exctert a4 @ too TN aS fra Cham & TAA sss ART 
aac Hen eA KR den 2 a aw eas A eH at 
afe aan fen @ @y & aro aerd wat Fa TS EMM 1 ( aa: 
TAR qa & Wa aera 4 ses qi Tes ) 
guise aie feast area Ward STAT 
ag Sie: afer fefa afaatie svat at et 
“aeert fafaa aoftsraat fara qe 
ere: fe teat ofa gat ara ee fear exe | 
wan we afe sree as & fH a He a SAH SR 
Saar te ferecit sxe areq anfe ax wifea et ara 1 ae SAH 
wert gl at ace ast vet Sat 8 | aT AT set 8- APT GER wt fa 
HA AA Vel Hl AES AT WY BA swaat BH uaa Fw art 
aT TMK sufe Ht Heuat et ze ? 


ee 

CART SUIT 

Sect a eens cifras at ata Gat: 

Se sare epet wer farsa fara: 1 yxy t 

free F OA & aren tne anfe wet wr vere fear @ 1 far 

arrest FS atk fet anfe @ saga SAF SO Saw VST SAT 
wt & 1 (fenfearn 2) 1 sm et ae a me sa aa Sr 
rarnfan & 1 afer sar a ce STAR STE A MET THT fh 
USI UA St Gad & i ea Var ear AATF ? 


| Serena ffs ort xa wT aT 
Treafae epiia saaersk Yferes Fes: 1 


spirafeha arg et, We ee ae RK 


ae art WEP TEE wa eT LL 

Crrraey fay FaA) ; 

aE: qfe ffage gor fe yet wa aie: 1 we I 

wa fet & ta feos at sae ore & A ot a oagar TF 

& ait sarara fry co na ¥en sae geqad wera a ara F 1 
qt var yeat ¥ ot Ae cere fauer an sax ata faga aa wa 
war gan Bo gaa yest wr arey stat (Sara aN acs) Wat faa 
2) anger ga ate oom @ fe faurn wl ofe A ot cae ca we 
SEES LS PC oh Sega eee Sth ray eee 
per set ae 2B | 


q weet a ae Ufa Wa fee ferred 

T My Wasa ared ie fone aa AT. 

fa: ada odat feet wet at areal Prat 

Mie oa Pat sat Tacacrarted fH ENT! ev | 

geal & yt uid wa aera aa a Ufa ST atm, Fa fas 

& 1 afe Yar en A ova 9 stera fers & aes ary aI Aaa BUSA 
at ofa afta eit area at 2 gaa SKS fH WTA Ural aw fear 
atk oda at aerate aH F 1 ote arsed feat & fad Teta wat 
a at sraer ax feat @ | : 


orsarar waerere wit waiger wafers: 1 Rvel 
cthenfea sara FA cin at od-steet ar Het 2a & fae we a 
Preata seat at @ 1 afer afea soar A saat ate eis 
wear et Fo AAMT oT INT amt aS SfHsa Wa, TH ERT CTT 
uf @ cinit & fara & fea st gedt at &, Taal aa fer 
Cl vat 1) fre var apa se era Tet Bisa, WTaTT Ht geat 
amy fez ta Aaat AT EAA WH wer yaa z | 
WTA frerg at { wea 
aa wreq wddife va dghefar stead 
are, Aertyattenfe Tat wat aE: feared wet 
aE: STH yee aie Afar feared SISA FHL eve | 
fora wart start cm at ax BG srfe a et A tea F, sa 


ROR fora aur 


Ten art vet aa | amar act =a & faa wits aa FO ale 
Tet ae ate & a Au ah & fH s8i9 Ha, eet ak Ge I 
arg am alan, faa aife a sift ary tax aa TT Het WET stata. 
4 aa feat steq a afters & fet aet Ba, aa aT Feat et 
WSHTA BIT | 


aret ater afett acer wie 
are au Rat agnr ata west | 
Wess TAT A: WAava: 
wide: ufthrafet fora Par eho | 
WAT sR (Ate) she afetn A va wheat & Frits saa 
Ta WK yeat & ae WH ae at Stat wr eA BL Sta: AMAT 
sig Sa Ue cael ofan wea &, cas fafaa ers ? 


fearer area fafafa afaftenfe tay 
tear frat gree Prarth dfifate: 1 
Taree writ fertahacay TART | 4 I 
frat qa we + ate ste ale SRT Yea at threw, ariia 
am aifa-da var at ufa afeea (afea ea) 1 eat afeat a 
Taare SEY S Sit ST sw HG seat St x BT 


qeasies carey, a HM A ATH, Get WaT 

gate feria exe We TY KOT ETS TT, 

areas a adariingear fre: eer cefar 

conieifefe arfaat ae fort felt feaced fact 1 e421 

eat at ferent ga atsit @ fee eal- (2) TAA Tha A us et 

AT HR Sal AMI HT ATA TEA SMM, (22) FA BI Ane H ve aa 
xis wa 8 ace } Set ere sik gfe, (3) yeast @ aE Hes 
Wel Us VAM St erat, («) WS AY (eee ad) vere a cata Gat 
@ (4) see aeq sna st fee Aart a (&) Gt Hr MK AST ET 
a anfe | 


frziantat - ater Tear Herod weaftact east ware | 
arengeast: awa wafateatioar qausy wer: 1 she t wua t 


Set aw Afer & dra citer fara ver wet tem S Set ware feat 
fardt aren ® oft a ana wet ae yea Fifa wa TF 


rateate aor xe 


anresft-qsrETETTT WSaT Ae: 
ASAHI: Eel Ale Far aftarataw: 1 TAT 1 wax | 
fm un cite ae afer  sftax cer tem & set veER aa yeEa 
a are aa erga @ at yest tS 
wentasts q: warft afaat get eareareqar 
faa Bar aH wan wet dae frat atert 
Prog xa atest ara aa Hard HTT 1 wyy 
ao <a at aeat & wr aa @ fee gat fer 2 1 Oe set 
Aes Ofd srt (eT Ga) S71 Det Sl area crt edt wT afta 
wt & 1 We WyS oH ws HA aA set SF Ca say svasy TA 
ara @ 1) UR aT yet SAA are aaa AR fas w fara we | 
Hy get @ Hares St BHM | AS say’ Aa & UIE steven Frat a Aaa 
wet BI ; 
@ ott wre: weed Ueel Tarafa doaeq 
wasta-atre ae wear at ane freareqa: 
arearat wieraa fret war wrare aefea 
qfrar wfear seraia TaRTaTE Were TH 1 MUR I 
B ufesa were, sa at & aye 1 oq ferme fea oer A 
fasta gear al amet at | yaa gee q fern wat HI UAE 
fag aa st drat adi AA wer 8 1 aa A a Sty Ae 2 ? (Saf, 
O va afe 4 at ae aaa FB ) 
areticee: yet: wearer 
featat Hafae wes 
TTS AHeT Are fats 
Savery ATfeT VT BST 1 wo | 
qs ae sta Jers Vea Bi tam aaa saa ae wit afe 
wat ST St Tet at en wet 2 ea fafa on faa et Aa USM, FA 
aT RM ate B ? 


FAVS BRUT Fey WA FATS AT AeTaTaA AMT 
feat tariacey agar vita eq goons fray, 
waTfsrart qae weft Afraay Aker Tarerehe 

sdf qa qeoslet wa aot ara afees Sea! Rue | 


RC | Oo ferent atop 


wanes & ye was A fees fare Ta & are way aM, ae ae 
HeTaren snfe & remy fratora a eer repre H Te GH tea zB | 
a wavs wt He Aet Hel | Hara. sah sa Wa yea, | snfe 
a fava % et wear 
ire wha aret wit way FT AMisene BMH: 
aredrsrst (ex) sadta Yara sfea: Whraren- aera: 
Teanekera: waafaetar afer afepcran: 
AINE AAT Wat aS ATW AT Wee tue | 
atta 4 yea a ern aed ae a Te aT) HST BH evy 
San (stata Be ooo Tag H aT $Y, 02 B) aha & are y wert 
arrest wa & wal ge 1 arent onfe fafere feed ¥ sear Ter, 
ft oreo dk a fear 1 art: Fa aa & freer & faa aei wea 
eA WT) ; 


STRAT, 
ware efatshr vist werag Gut ot Aare: 1 Go | 
zaot @ ses (wathsess at at war 8) Bt a feral ae sas 
we (set) a yet & wert aw fas ser et Ae faa BT 
% i fraat gor 8 88 St a ae a Fae yest at fear & ar F 
ate gfe freet otk aft & aa wafer af 8 yeat wert ar 
el ere, oe ers are og SHAT EAT FATT 
mt I : 


TSA HTT [He FA TIT 

att TH WN Bat aPrashs fas 1 

frat ator sored aerate 

wraferta cbt. TAS WHT: 1 tak I 
— Fa wer ssta & fread wage A seat ft a Wea ERT 
Trt we at FY Gaat aa ara are & fers fea fasra ctor F 
aren H yeat at feafa @ Wahad vo ai WHT AAA Bs | 


SO ae 


ie fray 
aaiatrartit Prawat: Areas WAST - 
frefa: Gea: at: fara eft we Aft Aart: 
TT: WeaTerEs yt Hae ATT: 
dire: gatad feate aq Qorres gat wT gt 
silks arta Sead eh Glas at Ft 
aim % fara ary fafeta gee sie acy fara, Ferd 8 fea wer wer 
mat &, ara eres Fara GRATEN (sR) Hee %, Aprhars fad ad Hes 
# ven qataras ford ge Raa wee &, ee San 
ARES HET FI 
ate: I wgsearafrct Wa Be gat aT 
asa eat steers wer yfe: ata car 
frart werifaa fre ya: dhheter qt 
|. Ye west morgare fafirat deat araifg az 3 
aeftat 3 gfe & fara 8 aga go wer 3 afe ara at oT Et 
a ga fava & faa B UH aq ee 4 am | ae yt: Ga faa 
a ofa & ga wea & fea scart art gfe & ax F He Ter FI VET 
we EL oat & oat wa A gfe at feats sik wheat & fasa F oft 
Em | 
qd feert-sate werent qe were whet 
Waa AEA Aes ferry AT 1 3 : 
Up OA Beat ON Rife sears S Maha St a ST ae Aes 
aie ainefia & 1 RR ae Rat He ott et Pes set at a Bae TT 
Wa wT aI 
Agee: TM we TTR: rE T . 
sere Pope: Mra wate wiser tl 
Te ae wet aft ef aa ges argea 8 1 ae frp, wa, stag 
Se Wy mat & sfafts Fi 
WET Ve Ter wat: 
. Wattse: gqearel anges Fat & | 
‘wor me & afer we etavdor 3 Sear whee wef weer Fre 


Bo 7 frat ado 4 


SU se er ee hires en Se a es : 
dato > sks Sten | a 
aide uae 
Tass Wat Srl AAA: 1G I 
ae att gat ss. 4 ufwora gan fae stat fark rere at | 
3a spre & daz fara sfteq warfera BF | : 
fecoanst qrart 4 a<fa wead 
arfeen enfe qaar weer at seaT 1 ot . 
RF elses mater ey Sere Ae aa 
SA & wren srfees qa at wer aT | 
wt Sifters: at qast afacit + 
Wafer YTATAT MATL YI ATA: 1 ot 
SPATE Bl SAT SA H HT Fa ae Sifs Her at am gfe 
vat & oro afar | ae wiftrat ar fai at & me ae att 
gaat (3 aT ex yaa) ar Ufeaaor Hea F I 
WHAT TA Sa Aelhreare faga: 
Rae Aves aarapar yhisafy Wi < 
STS BAG HA Hl SRT YF ary % BaF fares s 1 BR 
AS Hl AA SAH AVSS, SITS WA SAM ee at ane 
we & wa FH vfaafed fara sara & | 
PARA Wary Hea FTA HT FTY: . 
water adn: qe: wafary a: widherT | x0 1 
am: ga aa Aer atk terchiencet 1 ae sre Ht ore z | 
wate aaa ar a set & fraiita wer 2 1 ae are & wal otk 
ade ag aaat SH sretrect & | ste: Tigre eye 
€ 1 (qeq was ) at sam tar F : 
Te faxany ah Era PaenreyHy, 
wat Brat: qaqa: Weeatearatacr 1k 1 
srr fea yO fara sim tak, Se TH ST, A fewit a 
ape Bart ye wast often aa Fat et ar HE 
Prorenyzd Wet aelst Wael. 
WSES WILMA AA WT 1221 


aire foraory, . WE 


aa & as Sl UH we St wafer = den de ae arya & wa A 
ea 81 SSR sea at Efe a so aay & fora wen HT OTE 
at | 

wet Feary aura erat wa oie frarrey 
whrsterres aeasey tay wafraraay | 23 1 

ga A wa Sl AewaH a ca BAH SS & tat eared fear 

aa aA WHT STHT TAT HIT SI 
AA FRA HaaH TaTeane AHA 
FAMRAT TA TASH Wat Fafa: 1 ew 

wen 3 steer Sa Ht ona offs aa A ema fem 1 Taw aA a 

ax, aA A afta am ate 8 gd Teas EU ST eh Ast H SK F | 
WAM: Se Ta ATIC WaT ATH ATT 
WR Feat WSaAgT AETyATHT THRE 1 ey I 

HAO ATH, SeeTet B ary, arg a sha, AS, Ta a aeai-ga 
Ta Uae Up WO aey HAM: WAaHENgd Ht AT EVM | 

aire apeRl Taanecarea: 
AA FANG AAT: WAM: TST WRT 1 re 1 

afm, wa, gt we atk wa tne anfe seq FA 1 AT Ue, 

STHTM, We BI Waa B Prat (Vis aa Det) Ata sifa) seats et | 
wratewarart facet aft arHy 
aaa Sfoot qa: we fears at 1 vo 1 

Gt: we A say ST ez ait A ais we ez afeat wl BI VE 

frat 1 eet 92 erat ST Vo Aart A fanfsra frat 1 
TaN T fara Pra tage 
wearer Wa Ss: waft FTL! we | . 

SAH WE FAM AM Ta SW, HEA ae Ara Ha A waa wT OfE 

Tay AY sax ated wT fara SAT | 
Trad fears Gea wasp AT 
faart Severe Fareed AT SHAT | ke I 

Te AE TT GAT TAA TY SA OT he aoe rE Fert 

el TAT at | 


BRR 


Te Taran qftvaer at faq: 
SAT ATP FLATTS eT HA Ro | 
a feat 4 eae: We, Aa, TROT, yeal, fara, Tees, 2a, 
aE, Aaa sit fag so ET! 
Was Aa: Yet are ¥ daricaq 
Hereteraerg Uys errata 1 yz! 
wars & dea Grell ta @ fered y qa, wa ane ee t1 a 
were BY ue fer & faery a Seat wher arpa Sra %, weve 
aa a 2B 
wares yey Ufa sataman firdtas 
TTY MTS AT HAMS: HATSS: 1 MTL Wz 
wares % tat wt afer at aa Ha Hea Si TAA Sar a a 
al WH BA, Aaa sife ser wavs eat 81 (qe faara HI Tart 
Waa) | 
aReA-sft Mites vara fateren qPad wa: 
aiaee qatfe wre ufaferert 1 33 1 
wa fast & wo vat 4 gfe wt sata ar eA fear aT 
& | sa Tae ws TA GF ante BH earwa wr fase fara feat AT eT 
a1 
ages warty @fa: waa ade: efet 
afar oft arechare: weetisda wary. yy | 
RANE Tat aN a a ard ein B- Fa var aft area Wa F 
wer Ta et set WEST St way wan F 1 (Saree BB MN, wen a 
US Seer ae, saa stress, ates (fae) a 
wen | 
Tear Hear Sie: yt Tease | 
? Wisse: Head qa: arent crarya: 1 Yt 
TN BT SWOT Ferest Sit Ws %, wa HT ard wt uw sik WP 
ft Her Brat & | 
adie Saahey Tes: wdlat 
WIS qa aia Wares: | Wl 
oe a gd S 1 ves qa ante ta (wean) SY strat gf a nfo 


ajiffed {Taam 


am FAH FA e 
Ureaift aaae weary WeTTAT 1 2 | 
aa an fara ase aT 8 ST ET RT SSS TS es TT 
Coe BT AE TAS Vers Freon & Ta TST TI Bra area fast 
al Wan & | (Ba @ 4A ores erm) 
EMTBY Ay FATA HT YA ATTAT: 
aanee Garg F Sais: waits: 1 ez 1 
aa fora & are qa fam @ ; cad x AS a SoS a aS 
¥ fam art ¥ Feral & afer ( wets aT wa AeTga HT eat 
ey 
a: Marre: Wt et Ta: Wesaashae: 
faa feod wrest staress Tf 1 30 | 
We Wet Wat St & SRT qs a aM asa Hea & | fargq fesr 
ta oer tat at, afta onfe & Ast S too TN aif z I 
sitreraiftrect farrarey fergie: 
wTaT awed Bafta: ah: 1 ar I 
seat var ax fra wet a BA Rt sat ¢ Ay oe ae eA 
PIO SAH vila S| set Ht WE 
ara ase Yara Ta ATT: 
UX Warerhed Te APTS AT AHA | 32! 
arat a anit 4H were 2-2 Ferga 8 aeahas 8 1 gd vars 
ary yaa dt wearer era B 
vet ford afe: Herbs aq Eye: 
are ahaa waadt Fae orca 1 33 1 
Tata ars (ea oe) Feet es | fe aK We Her or fay 
& am a dha & ae are vet (ona fers) & 1 aR at YM aA 
SA F So Ta Wa Hel aM et wa ae BS sin sais & wa 
wre dre 2%) 
aaa: Bees UT Sie shits Fae: . 
Saqewt Yat WAT B eat Aaa: 1 Bx 1 
Wat Sr wa Ael BY GH sta: gear set sei cfe AM, (as a 


VW fared coy 


zat a 8) 1&8 Race Fae ar st faren—gee otel ae Tete 
ae Tia St aT | am aT are soy afae & faa oaaen Hz 
weT Wes a Ale Tarrarqetea: 
wre Yared At Aq we asset aft 1 wt 
PAT Wer HT VT Ve HS GH A at a aga & waa & ay 
% fear war 2 1 7et at seraren ¥ ach fait a aa et arm 2 
sa way won afe st ara eat eri 2 
qrareres ata: carfefa art eftam: 
Vea aera werrerisasT Taq 1 3e 1 
as aq 8 Ber faa arn @ ae =a (ah Us) 2 SH aT 
we 8 sive a vara er ere saat wet at sera a ate ae 
aan 21 fq wen 4 face St seorn set &, Wet aa Te eI 
sora ae SA a sear eta easel st va aT eT | (aie seST 
érm- ah & war) 
wera fast: yd fret qaredt a: 
waded Ags AAT Ua area: 1 301 
aafors aera 81 Tae ga uda onfe S 1 Tet aT Hein H BT 
¥ ata gan 21 ea wT A se var 1 et aor oh 
waa ed UTR ATE JF aa: 
Taras shar wT aT Re 1 
ws % Wa Ana anf & a waa: Ara (werfera F } Ren Aw 
Fae 1 ae are eS et fora oH Hea So aed feat a Ten aa 
Maa tHarat sashes faeqta: 
feat Woah FEAT At: TT HC WHAT | wz 
aaa Tea 4 fa a ore & fanen aa @ 1 aa: ar eT faye 
wa fora Bla ai tla at fac sr sawt- 
Tea aa 7 wate Wrst 
aah aad Sife aera tara AAP 1 xo | 
Tet sifits saa Tet ett | Tal aH ae Ga GAM Wa 


eA we ope A gar serene set Sta | sterfe, TMT a as ATA 
WA ST TRS AA TTT | 


wie fray WE 


atic dorente durfrerrey 

at warts ast ae wey TARAT 1 xe I 

ae Saal Wits get at witfa & aaa stories % (sat varz 
we 1 qd a states as fra we & Sa age & aet dam 8 

auitel aar ae: Carerancfasrya: 

PAY WY Fare, at atorfaad Aft: 1 x21 

arent & arent fara ware arfta & act ¥ fierat amet & Tet waz 
ae a fer uw et act at ards, wy fers fear Wet Ww Tae TT 
area i Sra Bt 

frre fren set ywarfes: 

et Tay WE Tyee ears werag 1 wat 

(ire ®% aq) WEF ys vee 4H fag cits wea Fo Stew cat 
UR 37 wet w ot firs fer uot wea Bi 

WIS TATA Tat TAT Tay Ves: 

ada wftatrer waate orarerita: i xx 1 . . 
fora Ferg 8 ot cree aa & el Sat Aer yr MA aay WAT 
we Fi geal B fra siete woh FS arferw ona S 1 Tat a sae 
HUA S| | 

TANTS WE VEIT Pt: wSatfas 

wet VaHaTaTe Ghat WTEAyT 1 wy i 
ee eta eee 
am (¢ art A) Aa aT at | 
Werte qe arrat ager ytag ary | 

qorenter at aHxet WATT | Xe 

Tee Fea WY Ae A STA Set SNE AT Ee WH HT EH Oe 
am Ut | get at aaE WR WM Ta aT B- 

VHT ATT TATA WTR HA: 

Te ye aque cactsfac wat fers: 1 wot ae 
aa wae aT wre att ay Chaat B 1 Fa WHR We dae H UF 
aquiat amt trey Ff et ait aaa feera 2 1 

aanefrreret Wea Fa Yara, . 

seat cai Ta WeTTRAISATETT: 1 ¥e 1 


re RTT eo 


cere ge toe See re re fea | Se th 
gaa Pre at Herat |. . 
| eeereirrrds weed: — 
weqetar waar: er eee TEPATL | YR a 
ee et a 
ara wet @ 1 Ae are dhe ar afer aT 
were are gi aft: wrewifay 
WAITS AMT AIT BS SVMTTAT: PeTAT: 1 Go 
vag ai ai (Sar ar) ate Pear ara PH A ATH fovea 
@ 1 gat we atte see & wars & waR ak ge 
wag wy ager fanat ad wat: . 
aerate Arerht wer Wate ATT: 1 4k I 
seg ate ft eetal wr SET a eB fea FETT ATT eG, 
gate yeaa aremtrard fret 3 ret were 
Fy farega Weret atid qa 
aagfe frearara wera fed Ta + 421 
fae urea & afte qite snfe % aftta veal a avis orecfa 
wet @ (efe fade 3) | a: ofosa cm aa Han aM a A ala 
wee 
areal feat Te Haver (cx) Arefewsa: . 
HATHA (WR) frat yet Sedearcat 7 Ars: 1. (3% ) 1 43 t 
aft are 3 Ae ada at Sarg cv Sher wet 2 PS aT A gga 
FereMe WR AST Ten yea BH BR aH faEMnr Bo ASH F | 
aataen feararar: waren artes: 
Wad eae wars fae Wd HA 1 yy I | 
fearera anfe ad uddt (2a frst Be ara arn feed) F vets 
wl THM Go AST Ala S| TAHT WET FET bo Fisry @ | ota ga fava 
4 Ge GER ar UPA GAMA ST TET eI ; 
Tere Meret Verte vigat et aft ary 
rarer sxe art ote ata aw aterg 1 Gy 1 
a vfs BT Sx wt ae sit eda, vig anfe st qe, sea am Ter 
‘gfe air (geet wet tier wae a feat ex ta THA Fo onfe wa BH 


opie farcry 22 8 | Ws 


Gam B | 
ate ATA Sea Tamas aera 
earey: Teoria: wee WawHPysy (22,G00) Ea 1 4k | 
ge oT aT et a Tae H quits st aewarae TS wWaATW (3€0°} 
ars @ 1 Sew SR TE a ar vig eenfas ae saa OPT a HET 
2L,Goo HWM RL - 
MAE ATT Ea: AERA AH: 
ag fait eof fetta (3%3) | PAT MIS TT: 1 ye | 
wir at uftfa @ am 2a e-war Wepa ass vige eT 1 Fa 
deed ME B A eet W Waar ves test HTS frsT (3x32) a 
WET at S Te Ga Ta Ko eig A fron sigay aT S wes Fat 
HT ant at St 
wea TeeN Starag are ge, art feria 
a tre Utthagqoy wae aferat STAT: | 4c | 
wa Tears ST eh 1 Tae a ae aK ae efe ari fam A 
SUM | TaeHY WAST MT GAP A WIT HT aa VY HET (2,800) A aM 
co 
we ast orTey: wat eter Fert | 
THAT WM (\9) A AIGA PSTHTHATT (8,26,28 CES) LOR I 
wet ig asia Brn Shit (stata sat ett aH vig fear =m 
THAT o VHA SA wW cad fs @ ara erm) Saat fren a HeT 
a wee ot at wt fren e of a wert: ae a Higa TH 
SHAS BI ATT SM | 


| frearge feetera: vaguest erate 
warlarasaay aqstard feftrarftey 1 Go 1 
wa sata 4 Taras aw are afe swat wen S afew Si Tt THA 
ST ot ar fanen aH wet aa 2B 
Teresa ae fateareh: way 
fears: afer: we WSsaree areesa: 1 2 1 
vo ar. se fearea al gig ATT TAT | 


aa (4oRG) ATASPET Gite oftet fea: 
BUT ad Vega: BE Peat TH (RW) HherHls Taq! 2 | 


We | fasra aio 


Fa Go AST Va B Gore BSA Hl Pie Ufa w Sar freq 
art 1 ye Ufa & ste Fas Meeps WH FH AM WR, He EMM | 
fe CATS ATK HAT TEAST (ROR) BST: Ha: 
FS THM (Re) She wT Mey (Roy) SiH eat 
SY CATA UL TAR BL FAT HLA UL TAHT THAT YoR Sil | Tash 
‘are 2¢2 St afe dn aw AM oom 4 ean efe dT wa ae 
TT 204 @ (taf Go Ghra fearea @ 4 Gera eH SH att B ca 
Waa @) | 
RE WAAR MOAT AHH ETT 
et URRTAT Tea THAT BT 1 GY I 
SET sit 84 aeq (zig) & ata wt GA BM UH Heil (2x, Goo) 
Tp y afer (Hore) B UIT AA Ye HoT ett | 
SB Sear Uist way gfe aaa: | 
qa foe svat ot @ feared: TET gy I 
Fa ysHeT wr UAT 3 UP a HA BA W ABI Cea aa Hl ea 


wan 8 | asia & of at fen & of a vere sam ota 
frat a 


at Ztsar Bap (axyc) Teles: TARAS HT 
age olfess arereat fava: Weaat Ae 1 ee I 
afc orf | sa etfs at fava (avac) & Fel KR THAT 
Brit | eae we ep vip wr atfeen a a fie @ am et 
qt : 
BPs WE A Bee THAT Waa: 
Wet FT GRad Yay Feat SaTaTsT FTI Ko 
Spe vip sa & | ae SeHaeT A HA OY A aAet cha Bi ae 
Tea S fac sifsa stat s Se AM sate B HA craw z | 
THAT: MET WHSLT STHT TAT, 
WASTE AAT TASITAATSTRT | GC I 
Spe vig A SHAM Fe HW exa wT Sit 1 Fa SVaST TH 


fas & PT we KET oI Sea & ara St STS WMT AA NR Ta ST 
Brat & | 


wie fray BW 


ae sqéeafem: weedeat: faftsar aft 
Bea VAT UA aaoo wats gAT Wey | es 
Fa Fad ST HI aN fafast S SN Ta Wepa WH wl Trae 
(2%, 000) a am et  Ha- 
viet fea ate: wre frenett wife afar 
Zea AT: pe: Wal Tae Aas HUies: | 
wip I aS A xa art et B 1 wig wt gearafa ert Bea 
earafa at fsa 8 en ates S AM Sa WW He Vey HT ASAT 
ara ant rt zB | 
Uifretteastey tan aferargar 
firearedt atfe starat ater wfhfr Faq oz t 
i: Tepes ay uff @ 1 at wae HoT a um ez 1 siz 
wea Hl frst a aT Ht Hes Burt Ff wa we F sexs aM 
al afta eat & | 
fearspyr wera: SIT (2gg) Aer: fear 
afert trersretsa FE: Tad WHAT 1 02 I 
fenraza & ot ac & cfr at aH cee ast w Ataraat (gat 
% sft sorara ahex) Bl RET oT at ATA 
Temas fear sf BHT (GR) AIH ITTHT 
ante: (90) aife Stare Tar-affrar (33e¢) WaT 93 | 
Saray (ER) AST Bl ASHE EQ, THASM wo Aa wera 
aaec EA | 
Yate: UeaHT BWR: (34) Her Saft: (Qgg) Afra: 
FIRTH Maw (¢vk) TATAY AKA: (0G) 1 wv t 
AHA WH WH, SHS VHP WX, TRASH LvR TAT FATA (904) | 
Temrsat (ogo) AdHerea 33 Feataeay 
HS Sea ATTA (3¥) ATT APA 1 94 | 
TAH BT ATT (ko) TaTHaHN, Ska Hl Safa 33 Bpe exarfa 
3¥ aa 
Wem geaaranis asa frtda: 
fafrsa grexiviaera rar fearera: 1 9G | 
SVAAT Aq GIST Bo | sta: feast S ez sia (2q GSH BH AG) 


Zoo fart ada 


oa ferreaa atenfz @ exa ern arfet | 


pas fer at geile Get 
BA TATE TAT TATRA RAT | 99 | 
an, ofa, fea atk a a aneorfea OF & oreo ofa att a A 
ada chad adi 8 1 oe ga ees &H ors aaa Tas UT SA FH A 
(Tat a) 
ae ee ee 
Wes Tea Tease Arata (vo) fad Ta: 1 wet 
fearea at feafa vera (stiara) Std @ 1 SAA Saat Sars, 
aang atk fac area & fare vet Sten | Aart Fe safe H wre aft 
faa wea %, afe sat sar as feares sei ct ee area & 
fearera Bt SAA vo siz BF 1 


esate (20,000) wera: wWeaIdeHR: 7: 
SIT (322) PARAM AH AT (4/2) T TAT 1 FI 
sae fears FY ale Yocoo BY Bal WH AA Ba W Tsar 
depa wig 322 fawot frat sepa ST At 322 fare (aI 4 HoT 
fasen) eri) eae ara 


Feras (282) Her oie ara wre safest: (ce) 
CARS TATTARL RASH TA: I co | 
382 Her efe drm ce ara Ei i sata sat alet & ATA a ce 
area at gd @ ae fearera gxa erm | See Serer ett B et chem | 
fearerare Aiwitat wees FATA: 
Tageral fe gerd Ubi wre Area cz 
 ferea & ¢ am i we am gare aes da a wa 8 1 ae 
aT Fe S 90 ata att aH cha aw F | 


(Sad ga BH) Ae Cy GSM THAT AAT wae AT fra BA B 
Se re en ye 
ot xem ? 


apTret Tararory, ; Zoe 


BTAM (2/30) Sacra gee: Goataeria (2) 
warranta: yt fafrare fasanrnst: 1 23 1 
wifes TAHT AAT (22°/307) SATS e/g") SA A SETA (2H) 
gas ag & ata 4 fea oi fafa @ eg ge tame wt cam | 
aa: 4e Tet Hel ST Ta @ fe Fam aM & Ae GF w Ae Aaa | 
Tae RAG Fa: WoUTaTeAAs SI 
faqaceTeas wus Ter eflaietayr i cx i 
aa fean (wa at faqga ten o° aha a Se) A aa aH H AVS 
Tet FH 
ARIAT: BUT AGA A: HAT. 
amt teats 3a A=rat fea far 1 cyt 
q orn & aria Fe St ora x wer afew chad & 1 ot: 
feqart a sam @ Fe Ht Tam HH Hel az 
uaes affat: fast werared aft qa, 
ears friserer feafrater Feta att ce 
ays Wi feed afar arat fer & Sa wa tas wr tad F a AS 
ay adi faa S11 ant set ae ae 8 fH Ae aT sifeaca Ae 
faeraaraay TaAcal Toe: 1 
atatata aeafat GeurTataeret | cs t 
aq ak areata fava (Gare sit Hae) Te (za sik staat ) 
at arar & are ASA Hr Tet Chan @ 1 SawHt War sik GN B Tas 
Sela SS eg 2 en Snore ee ay ens 
waa | 
Braga, (v0) Usreara arfehpearfaara: 
wag Gea a Adana 1 cet 
patie) Gants param oa a Serie 
ae at ada war Aet z | 
drertsarsnra earten wets 
arerena atente: wret aearfeert wT cet 
arearaet (9a) & eeea fee ¥ ead santa (=n Far 2; 
Part & araea HT UW sat Aa aM GA: aw a ys F Atenfa z 
ae dat wart wae HI RE 


ZoR . . fast edu 


at ane afer ara art Bratrar 
WH UMA CMATAATTAIST 7 1 ot 
ae: 3 ae cart ar rato ard ad & cfarsit ar A feed Bt 
FF: ara ad wr ye, eae enn teen 
= fa - 
Warsra + Varedt a ari aerarafa: 1 3g 
OIA HT STE VR A SIAN Ht AE Bata: Waste wr sas 
gaan wet @ 1 get ver was Ht acre vet B 1 (Sra Gut A 
HET WAT S 1) 
aadshra Aras arn faferarafe: 
UrRaETe aTeT Aharear ATATes: “WATATA: 1 RI 
_ Was Wh fafae are & am afes a & & 1 ye ofa, cfarr 
TA SA ATA BOTA AAR HT ATT HUT EST F | La Ae S ASH AW 
sa stem F 
aanta wera gro fe: Ue: Wak: 
eemdarirat dear Aye afaqay 1 33 | 
aan aqs F fire fe ate afew doe 1 GT arm 2 1 fe 
qeat WX too alfe A ot aif ci wea F 
aaaNe Sart Het pia: fea wat 
ofa fara at qe teense tea: 1 ee | 
TH BCT F geet tier at Gf art acs aK Sra Viet & ae fara 
feaz Gt Gat @ | starea wars eB ae Gfs HH aT afew Vr 2 I 
aefea, ware ata qearenia wer Fa 
aati xararet Anraqet arat fas Fert 1 gy | 
aren feat 4 ear a goa aq Wa & sad @ aml aal an 
atk adi & vare & fret or Hera stew va a et B11 
Tait Pasha sfacsPacwer Fer 
Qararat Aeaeqd Marea vata fe 1 eat 
fat & staat wera & aro fafa sre % se sik as ga 


aft <q arr & 1 den aft age @ aa so aa F 1 ae are At 
qe Ara F | 


pire Frac, RoR 


aarfa gaat pte fret at frat 
eat Wasa WeITAaNeaha Bel Frerq 1 go | 
carta fast siz ort & ga oad S geal an steer wet accra 
= fork fast sik al an wea Utada Bim ZI 
wanes aap: Herarseahaqaa hay, 
cafrate ceare t Ray Brest: 1 ee 1 
afiz att cfa faen gan aan wae Hel Het we 1 GU A afta 
yx att a fa aqE wet Tete | . 
Ware, fearat waite gfeara gafera- 
ade adartan afeat sit FET! ee 1 
sree wea a fered wet F afola Ylewrer Te ged a Fear 
& apt at geal a feafa HF aes oraz 3 
“aifeara-aer site tere Varedtet frac: 
wre yfadtret gad TT Tat | TT 1 Yoo 1 
anfe aaa wee & arpa free st up cart we ag aie 
aan wa Fi ael Be ada geal 4g aT FB aye Ae fk Gay 
i omn % fay chan at 2 1 
a frari-are ter Pras arg te aa Prt: 
Piet wer WAS Taz fates: 1 yg | 
ad faara ® arqar -9fF & aeq om FH ert femnsit F free 
ea & ae Fae Gariaa am ea sete afr arity % 
suftera feerarerer Oar Zar eta: 
AUNT SAT AMNSANSH=T ATA: 1 202 I | 
Sas SK FH Ufo eae aT she Heh fara aca #1 AS fear 
Be (HAS) K tacit HF Bt srawt a1 Higa wea B | 
Fata feat amar sarge faarTHT | FT 1 03 I 
ae ert Fe & art ace geat at uftfs a wa A ger wax Bz ez 
& ote cae ao 2a aa araqdt a faa ee fears tm % (set 
WaT) cae 
carare: Water: FTE TTA: > Lae 


TATATAUT TAT STTSAT VACHETT 1 Yow | 


3o¥ cr : pean 
wn area eae RO eS 
arrer gf uw fera Ferakfa wt cat a faga aa wer STAT z | 
aay te wat HAT Ge aa: 
aq, fel Ae Ba, Tee APATSAT: AAT AAT: 1 Rou | 
ga faga qa & HF 8 Se Sa WA Ga Fe aH St crag e 1 fers 
Sen Vat He FSA Ae oa] afta wt Var GH ea Stat Gat HT 
opredt & Ta ifn (Serax ) Va HEA | 
Farrar ae qarafa wa weet 
grea ftefreferd oo qa TaATaT 1 208 | 
Fa Var strane F fara Vansit et Heat at wreft , aut arqart 
geal we ft Lenstt at Hea & 1 sare afta tar a 4 SE a Ga 
(cen) usat a uae at set cast Heat %, vei ae Yar Art oct 3 
aT Qa: AataHTeaaTat FOMTT 1 gow 
fora var Haea te Haw F 1 (Ae cos Ae aM SR TSR) 
vet wear waren & faue te ¥ ot Aecvs wih at carat ay (ware). 
& saa y, qa: ee: onfe cite fers F 
BAe Ure Wrel Sera TAT TA: 
mae FA TS Tet: WSMTATT YheSA: 1 oe | 
sree & Awe aH Vea A ash chest ar senza Bt uss se 
fe sei wea was Sl Be 1 Tas AT 2a SNE HIS 1 AM Wa WaT 
AAR & sax B 
| ciet cite car Wet HeTS WeraTafa: 
Peco PT WAT TAT TA AAT 1. 08 | 
ged ar are fecotret 8 1 anit et cfs H gag sre ase F 
wart Cire & ) 1 aft ar gaa ven sna & 1 saa HAT: 
ea-ea WN site 
PATA: WoT: Weer: WaT: | 
FRAT PVT NTEA SATA AVEAT 1 yo 4 
we snfe %& svar %, ara Ht vais i wen } sqa wa 
wWreat F aofy BAe, Care, wR) srfe a asia Mea: Pat FH 
at era %, aa: . 


ane faarery, Bou 


ater deaf afrifea, wefstar 
Tare Saree Teer ATE TATA TATA | RR. | 
aa: Fa fora wea H Tae feresia ara feat ea St are A Aer 
aera Fo andfas care anfe & an A wer ae | 
ae TT Weary UPA HY, 
froaat afataceciter: wafrart fercerot 1 222 1 
am 4 ata ar tera wet WH & gaat ufeaa sik HGea wha 
faa varttre fara ferratin & wg yet fara at S| 
frat fererit-aar qaet ay aferen: 
Were THAT | 
need: fea i Ute aeisa ary agate | 23 | 
fora ferrafor & areanr-uedt & neq (faga vat we) Hat TR 
&.1 sea wd (fo OW) aH we GA, can B of set Ba K 
TAH WA 8 | cml & stew Aa (eco WH! fae NAM A aN G Ss 
TA (Ro°) TH ews sie cfr F PFE aT asaraza z | 
. Had Tera as cara vente facracha 
aad Wt aire War sida we aCe: ALAM: | ev t 
ae wit & LI UH Ga a UH Ga WE (Ro) Sl GA WS (HAS 
atk gas & ata ct 2 ae a co” at oo B) | Aw A A ak fos 
frara wea & | aan ate a agar (parE) FH srqr wea FC 
Waa frecast aoe areararen saftiterasa 
waasa: B aqd Went saad frdfrat aaT 1 yey | 
geal F sit set at S srey & yeah HT ATS Te stay HT SA Taga 
leo et get & cit at ae foe ATA eI 


ae: Rea: STATATATSTaT Ae Fa AeA 1 
smarparferdtire: ferna frstadt ca ad qara i ye | 
fire var wa 8 orn area at ace cred @ sel ver yet aw 
WER eco” qt ut fera Aaa aay SY Ha sit gar a Aa at aca 
fax fea ga Baa ¥ 1 Sfer os cin fra ver fee Dar a3 F 
wet ver ara at feen ar fade, fern ara oti 


wre anf tone wate urea wat: 


tets=afery aa ve eer are an efrareacaiea frag: 1 ety | 
Way Was & Tax ftad anel geal ar Ae straw 


« 


2ou fara 


8 1 ce ftir geo ere 8g ate ae eS 
ca | 


He STAY ATQLaT Fa | Re I 

USA MAM Ae TAH aS fT BARS | open ee ee 
al WH est | eae cad arate frara aaa & 1 frre eek H aapt 
aaros & | wen sufe wht tam saat ae aa HAF | 

TAGRARS THA TS AT ATS WAST AT: 

ware warddgarcisal ware citer: yfrat qerhr 1 eee 

aft % are ef (ae) oa () AS (fa wT), Fe sik ara FH 
art aT Ayx BAT: afer gt me 8 | Fe Eg Se AAR & Hie 
asana @ 1 yedt & neat a et aaa Her aT BI 


frais Ta eA SAH IATA: 1 ey | 
aaa cites Ff ara atk at fara ad & 1 aot & fax at afer 
@ ae varies 8 1 fas set Bo ET wT Af aT Teo ae aei faATT 
ae 81 sam fran (a HIST) & aaa BAH ee H eof Ter Tar 
Berea Se) Sees eet ara ry ce Sen irs el 
ei 
We Te: were wet wieasa Tes (care) UST T 
BRAG A MARAT HeTSthaT | VAWw-t 
a wit ara agg acaren @ 1 caw dae g ga Fo At & as 
WAT: We, Wesel, se, Hoa, Tes sit yet, Wes BU 
are ATA ata BL 
Taran frre eft J fa-q wear teat: 
a frags Tht ye vet aege Ate 
aafoaat SURE TAT AT SI SAT 1 kz I 
cial & fearera sat at aH 2 | Ta Se Bae! Uda ae atk 


pier Fran, . R019 


aa frag ada 8 | wee or faere waR ae 8 OF fea a oe 
aa star yp sik ata uda 81 A at ude & ata 4 ot ad 
se Zh em Hea z 
ana at fre qaorend fear at adt eta 
fraqra tat He cena fate fecory TH AF 1 223 I 
cat 8 sat fern ¥ weet ara aa feat ee Aa TAH are BT 
a? fae Mm a sR Hae: He, fewag am Tas ANF 
aerate arate wat sare feet Wate: 
arertrer Proeradt a araarer WTALTATT | ARN 
amelie Ut @ Tat HT aH Berar aM taew A Te WaATET 
uda & 1 ae at eae: SS ES IIT BES SY 
& aa wl corsa ad Her aT Bi 
merarate yeradh sag 7 wx Tet WySfAT: 
. Tarte werater teat aqurers Prat werfars: 1 gy I 
meat wht ae VaR & ate Br ANT wR FT Hera F | 
THATS AM AA sla wr Ba Hl yt fac ci HyarerH ey 
wen e | 
free ster ort warers tate Fa ATga Tat 
MAHTHATA AATHe Bar wisay faa wetTTT | 82a | 
fava, ata, weemres st Arete FA AK Vet A a feensit F 
faa ean faega gored Ca Fea oe A Sam HK Sra Ya G Wed 
1 ea te ot feet wer otk fafa & ae sas AS aot quer 8 
ve fe Fe fre: fret yearn: Haw Tomrafeat wera: 
gfen wy gue aa ahiste a qufads WaT 1 NW | 
Fas qequy F te uta 1 cael feel cates B ae yourfae. 
% AGaR Fei Samet ar fara 1 ae oda et gest wet vee at 
Suet (efter) 3 Pras wet FT VT EST AT | 


farger Yet: aq etser Ors Wat faye: qured: 
THAT A Hy Gar: Hera Hey ge frere4resay 1 ke | 
va Fe ada & ar face: (gran) oda ¥-4ez, (FTAA) |r - 


Creates) faga six gqursd 1 rai Hae Hae, Wy (SAA), az 
Ten dea et germ & | . 


OEE ay wa & ca fre & eg ca at ow aA we TE 
fra tat & feet 8 aren at ea ay Ae wr ort UA ® faa 
SSS a een a ee ee eee 
1 & 

at Fer aa we fated deed Ta Tare | 

qeret aq gfraT TT sifrortsratate wiesy | R30 | 

We & an facpey uddt & Aa am Fare aa F 1 Ufers F- Aa 

aera fafan %, er H stand ster watt %, oft aa Famsit at ef 
mars | aa awa Herd Varn Ft 

areas ae weet Yad we Ta 

ATTA THOTT SAT: ALT TT et Peverrevar: 1 238 I 
oS are at & are ee (Site) B+ stem, ara, FETE atk FAT 
ce) ta feat GAS awa Set ect Fa wis wat F 


teat 
te & ada & de an t-sehs we okt aT OA Bs 
fas, gar a wen att drat w Pra TT SET | aATHT WEAF 
ga eat A wee: oH, a, 4, UaeTa, TET, WaT, HAL aT 
) fra ear FE 
fare get firoqrar wafrar At water, 
PHP Ve ARH MATAT: ATT AAA 1 832 1 
fay & are & frat Bl MT HT SaATT VEC AH WH BST | TAT 
ae ae ait H ferren Bet A faege wat & AS AR Get H 
Frat ae set HS I 
waTeM sled WraereT w aed ah 
AGS PYANAT WTSI BATT FST AAT | wav | 
own tin agiza 2a 8, sreraerer Gin) aa ad F ag ti 


wt fray . Boe 


age 4 atk aR Tim se He at H varfed EH | 
ar aftfar frente get eperaitedt Viet 
TH Sa Herat qarfa agearhy arf: Feary 1 334 1 
Tim & er wea wer @ uret yea ufaa eae) as aa, A 
al Fl SAG, aA a, eas a, a a, OAT AG, ae HT A, 
BRO SA TM Cala HA a | 
aaa cfrakaa ast teats cents aq fg: | 
We ae fatrarty gat aft atrcara, Acca | ARG I 
TOT eet aH WaT STAT A ST cit ar fag wo HT aa TA Ze 
ara & 1 thm ae waa Fa A aq ae Bara yom BI (sre 
THM Az UW Usa WAM) wert a other ren & | ster A Wee aT CH 
a af wert cat F vas Hea z | 
US aterad fee ae whe wafer TeaHaritaresy | 
asa ter aren HaaVS Tad Waifs ast ae Fey 123091 
and at & wg avs e- oe Se, Taf, wafer, gic, 
am, aha, aver site meer | 
avforattataties parktaret 
Wy wast aah wt 
AeA fe weraete uTfara Wa: 
AfaeT FE WAPATTCATSAT: 1 232 | 
pater avs HW auf organ & 1 ara ast F SIT (SPSTA) 
wa: frara art 81 ea aa ad A © paras (ae oda) F- Tes, 
Ufe, sera, wa, afta, war sik fares 
qetared efat crater Te Bass qa: Taare 
TT: Vode Wee SsA Tas TTT: ARTA: 1 238 
RPI statist tara Hl oat (a Fare @et-faga Var) Hea FT 
faye Rat a afar at aa yes, Aa Sat wl AT Gadi Hem 
@ 1 te (qae) Gee: ce 21 saa SH Ae: he, TA as, Tes 
TH srt H dere Bt 
THTYShes Teles: Taare Trae qary | 
TIT Praylsatara: BTSs Test Was 1 exo | 
wa cat ¥ yateq dra 3 sa aaa amafe AM A fers (a 
WR), cian & ote A fos KF gated ae daw TR A onet wa 


Bo fara edoy 4 
Sret & | - 4 


aifcs$ fra Tayatvarnraa Ta: whey 

ee ee a ane 1 ese 

ai at seq fee a yet cen srea Sy at fern ay ofeaa wea 
@ 1 we siz ofs & ata ot Set fea sar atk cfm 1 et a 
s feansit 8 ara fafen (ae fest) ar Profs a wat 3 1 Fe (air) 
wet & sae H fears BI 


ater gage at wreat fefreaq wratete 

Taare aa cha Te: HH: udder exe 1 
. Saket @ geat & yx art (<o") oe fen HF aatfe aaa ze 
Wey ta aafe wet & dhe of F sraha (safe) set F 1 weg 
aaatfc a dra ules A ci ete 

waa ada Wife Gea Tea Urey 

Pra tefeaa Teng wrat udtet a fafrr Wea 1 eve 

yaa om & fe fra wars & ve F Sh ees @ Asi B GEM wa 

re viara ¥ vet 1 ae fafaa ooaeen fark faga qa a at edt 
zi 


fraex afrrosctam gat: urate afer 
Tete BM TaTAaIAT We Tah Pare 1 oxy | 
fagaga (frat ee) 4 wet we Ayes aay fen aera F SH gat 
GAS ter HAs He HIM: TA Te xfer. ST aH Aaa F 1 Ta HT 
ga sar fax & Sn stars F aera waa Cram Zt 


sen fee Ait AM TAMA TMT CAAT FI ASH | 
Ter a Trafe Wad ft ea GT ST: Herre: 1 key I 
way faqa qa & Fa Va sat al ACH ST, aha ga afar 
fern # fit fit 7A awa 8, ae sat ga fafa @ sar som 2 | 
sat ga wt safe (ar wert ga at afa) sat et ect &, fern faye 
@ Ta wa wt Gerretse oh wT sienesrse AM eit 2 | 
—atsat Wear aT (yg) Aforat caqahehe TAT Ta-T: 
Tisarat areat ash we orTert wwe 
SMA Fs Bl Io S Wat gah asa B aT AAW Ta 
ara HT Baie VT | We Har H ot eat wR seas sem | Tez 


spire fracory, . BR 
ara & sais aro faga @ aera 4 att fraret om aadt 2&1 
abe qa tern: are aeisatentrs termed 
worgaed saga an facie aia fafrw wae wv i - 
fra WER gies art sat ga at sat fax & Sur Aaa @ Tat 
yet SAK aret char ga wr | at ga ves & dm wht ga a 
aoa foam (aifet at ats) ae afar qa a srt stqaeg (art 
ach) Ta Bar Raa F 
afe fétrfs qa: wand Se at ¥ va Gay 1 
are wa aeat ara ge afeiya:urafrss feraray 1 exe | 
ueat & frre we cbftra caret & acon wen & us fest (Hea) A 
FHS SBR A TH UH ATs (8 fe) Te Area 1 WAM BT 
(afa 4) Ae aie at afe ae at ret & 1 uefa vera FH att yest 
ae Bt ard B | 
fer fer afaaefe qa: taPed dt wet ach 
WS oH ae eA Het TaD Ae wT TIT | exe | 
ofa fea wihtrat a aot tah vers Hee & | wa aT feaa 
SA ER ee eG Bala eer ate ea gE 
a 
wares aq wats waa wafoaa: wrptes adie: 
rarara: wtyeTaan Ye at ward folart: 1 eyo 1 
Wen at sry ae SM MH wat Oe wepfa A aa sod 8 1 Fras 
wh saat a at ae aaa erat 21 <a Aares (af a adi) 
wepfre wert wet fo: gfe & aaa vepfa a af a aT Fe 
seat He F 
ai nechiig Geen ae OS 
aq art ae Pratt s-arereatarasata craagqat 1 cuz 
ant sett art at afta qo att og Sri Bae sat Aa aT 
WH ae ara 4 fren 2a F 1 (AE we 2a) aan a fx va Gan F 
aA st Tea Te HWA S 1 Ta sneahasH yea Hea Ft FA VER aR 
VER & waa @ | cahea, are, wepfan sacs | 


qyeatae ca Aare * 
Fy Wahreog Wy a aH Ha: 1 


BRR 


are sqafeafreugafuree4r 
AMOS HOS Tatales WTA! Fart I 
wa xeient 4 get, add, ta, ara, ara, ae, We stk saat 
aN, As, WA, aa sf ws S Sar UH xe wl feafa Het We 1 a 
at Tavs FH Tet SH aS A St UH stem 4 fea F 1 (faa 
farrafar er Text BATA) | 


FOqa: BS TT (teoo) Arata: We taraarhraf: (3¢ 29) 

Qo: BETS (2z4o) Ee FATA: Yash sarah 

Bert gfatatrate sear dteseat fre- 

CATA: AACA (Koo) Ta: FAT FT (kRX) THT AAT AETT | 43 

Ueat Hl STA (RG00) GAT 1 TA (3s) B AMT Bz (2ARo) A 

ary 24 ut gedt ot oftfa ar art star & 1 geal, oe ae saat He 
anfe & cara @ saa uftfa Freereara at usp stk ara fafa 2 1 yeat 
(ar faredt we) B cara BI Goo S PM HT Ave B aT aa we Ht Taal 
uftfa ert | 

TEAS AATRSTAPIRAT: FS TAA: (402) 

veceit ferfirera: (go) fexfrapa: (x2) 

are FaTAfeat: (4oRelYolwy) 

oraet: Ute: Syyreed ATE 

ariradt, Fes FEET (Co, week) 

BAT TAH CATATT (&) ATTRA: (AYewHoReEKI Ko) | LUX I 


Te fers & yea at ofefey SE = YORE | fo | ¥R ATT B | 


at Fr (Grae ar) tt aa 8 ued aes a yA: ora BT 
BT A UH BT oR lol vz x Goo = Co ¥zecu GBT (aM) TAS 
qeat ST FAHe (BHA x SATA /e) 
St . 0, ER, CCK X %Goo 
& 
aye fatwa seq Wy tare Ay 
SOTA SAY ATT FTAA (Ru, 44,204) Bit Prd TTA: 
QIOAT TY AMT FT (2,48, 2%) BY Ta PTT 
TATA (44230) Cet A AMSA fog TA FATT 1 wy | 


= 2,21, 84,02, 888 | ¥o | 


irr Fray, ; ELS) 


geal & TARTS A tae UAT = t4 44294 IST 
eA ee = WUE, BRO 
afar 4 ue = 423,80 
Stet —,, = 3Y,\92,000 


frert fet - ga aa ofintinceara we: wet 
gout aewaht uta: eae ITT 
Merete aaft a oe YES Sara FET, 
yfesta vate rad aet wt qaTed 1 BAT 1 tue | 
aftfa at cara & ae aL S aM AAR Ta Hl AaHe He z | 
a dd aKa H ¥ VPM HA W AS Fa OM W areal Ma Hl Ade 
al ape en & | anipfa aa ara are @ de ET re ST WE Ma 
al Save Va 1 Wea Hl ade B Bawa H sara Sw Hee a 
amy 23 UA Ta wha si ei ulasa (SHR Bl aEQ) A TAM, 
s<iteré Sarg (a Aters) edt B 1 HH Tha A feat wa &, Fa TAHA 
a oat aerm | 
afagea a apa care 
WHET FATT (22) AAT, 
TH (9) S Yar we vith fees 
I TT Uaey Ae ATT 1 Ba t 
fret ferdt ar (area anfe a) Fat fe uit & adam & ort 
& ata at ott at cara wet start & | Sara FAVA MN Bw A aM 
aw ufefe etet & 1 uftfe sik care B Ga Hy Sa aT aA 
RIT GIT Get TeAa Meraqerey aat fafrerq 
Fe Wea YET Het TNT MArehas Artadifa Ta we | 
qa H Mays sa 81 Ga Aawe FW a PM HA W Ia Wa 


R at Weng wT Uae sana ea | ae Ysoa A agai safws 
Brat & | 


aet Ope Ueate we Taw PAT 1 (22,800) WAATAT 

fret (3x30) fdearaed Waocrterde cater Baas 1 Hy 1 

Ae Vpe USHA aM aA wa rarer a fafa wet aredl Ft ve 
PUTS HT UR Wet Wax HL Taal fal af aw ez, goo Hen A 
fore tT | Tees sarard wt fs avae wert APA 1 Uhr B Ha 
aie AP at fee ¥ ge & ax fag wT feed eth 


ey foara ety | 


Praqd fafeaweetqed t-arate wera 
acatfya 22 ) ferat afta qatearfir (2x) 
went fafereaats 1 ko | 
Treat & yerqany sit utes fore wet & (22, G00 Hen HF farms) 
ae fret gu % ae seater fagsit & ste ta AE eed fee a 
faga ga gH (go) aT ett) wis Wy He Se OH UH UH ga faga 
at & GAMA SH | 
vata afer, aeartrent saree cet ware Fae, 
Sara: Baa: Uefa: Ha: Weta wet wfreraer stat: 1 262 1 
faga aa sik 4 23 St acl & aa & aca ast at dea 
23 31 wee 3 waa ( ace Aa) aT Hes (ee) Va aaa 
Bw wea F 1 faye @ Sad as aA w adi 1 afte Hat: Bet 
ert ant & | aera Ba wt Berg (SaTE) wT ar ufa a waa wr afete 
TAS F | 
Sareea faa: HAT: Wares: YA: Wet |d afstarn: 
FSA Be (2z,6,%3,00%) Aeraay Weta: Raven: 
CT WERAT 1 eGR I 
Cee ea ee Saw 
soa aia fart @ aa sa ert 
Aer Brea a: THATS TE 
Tra FS: (42, QRWN) 
BA AAA: TACT TH WaT (IW) 
CMLAPHAT (I, Goo) FT 1 2gR 1 
SA AA HAST HT NT (42, GVW B.-1 Ww) SNM 1 fw Ga aT 
Sapa A) faery fet 22 Aaa wi ASE ) FM 2%,_Goo 
(afeha) Har eT 
TAPATASAT: (KC ,G0,000) 
aE ees TA A 
fren fara wata ta 1 rev | 
yeaa (Fra sacs sana wl) MH aaa & ArT a pT wey 
_ WR (¥2,G0,000) SN | FA Ge Bl FST (3x3c) aT AA aw 


yi fracory BWq 


BS are yeaa HATA TSF (9,¥, 20, £00) 
CAS We YETS Get HTT | 
fatter Faq WHat Wel TATA (R¥ 24,22, G00) 

YSIS Ad AH HeATSA Met | Vey | 
WAT (\9,¥2,80,C00) Meare Uae HI AHS BT | FAIA IT 
ST W We & US Hl AAHS (2 24,22, Goo) Hel A SNM | 
fart fasta (ecg) Wforaet aefeat wide sate wea 
ae ABA CaTaea: WPS YH Wet THA BTL Neg | 
sare (FAST XX = coe) TAT UE (2x,Goo0 HEM) HI PM BA 

@ oft titer ws ga Bt siren B11 ata: Uefa sie cara wt crag ists 

ant & war et ae a aan sa % - ten waa ez 
wate seared wert wae et: AT 
Frere ora fry gara RIS ATs: YH ATT 1 GV | 

aan a wt aan fam & faa geq qa (faqa *& 

Aqsa) & MH Hl Ta aaa Hl AST B yo HT FAST (3x3) 

a am ea Fea wh aaa aw am oft ers & US Ga TAA 

erm | 
qea Sara war TANfSTA: TATE ATI: YA: 

TYTCS TA YHA Te AatsTITAT F- 
MAT TATST YEH Tey fe aret THT ac | 
PATA Sara (AASTS) HT PST Hr eT Get VHT (SATA ) TATA | 

TAP ASA B SIMA H BTN Sl SAH WAH SH SAAT SVT ST ATA 

HH GHA & | Sra sar F fan Has ain | Tew srqara Frepral | 

Mt sqardt eY warsra B UH arerH at ot eae St eT fH tier siz 

UA Sa Het HT A sq &, el srqara SAH THT HT At ST | 
Ways TY (2) Tatar afters F 
fe: Ret (x) aca (g) Afe ta we: 
eaaghifte cos Tether: . 

WIT: WAM: TAF (2,000) TH AS ANAT | NEV I 
é oat & UH GR & te (Sears) B Vera aA TD TH ad Eat F 
3a ¢ ste Het S 1 ¥ ste HT Us Afe, aan e Afe HI UE Bre BIT 

Bi ¥ Sl Hl UH CVS, AAT Yooo AUS HI UH Bla Ela Fl 


BRq . faara edut 


Teyfat aod feat ST 
Shaq ST WAC (2, eGo) TATE: | 
TST VAM HIM BATH AT: (4 00) 
wre: wetafa at fata Bt: 1 geo | 
2 wre wr UE wegfs 1 2 weght wt UH aT 1 ale we fase 
(RC, Yo) BIT wl UH ATA Aa SATA Tae a cates was 
@ WAT Wu foo UT A UH Hla Acid Z | 


TENS areata qi farega Tat ArarEhH: (200) APTA 
VAY HAT (222) TH: GAT: VE aera? 1 ye I 
wen i anfe faarharat 3X gi sn & ane am at et Sat wer 
& 1 urea F geal ste ae on faraas aaa wer & Ta are Tega 
al dt ater aay Hel WaT S| TA WMT & srqa yest SH ara 
Loo GIS, (R&00/2) WAH SATA WW AAA (¥¥v/2) AMT | HT ava 
RRoo0o GAT (\9o00/2) | 


WE: TF (ag) Praga wages Tenaghey: 

& wr Tat wea tat ere fay citereg 

were fare fos frfafy ee arta: ware: 

YAH WAT (\9Yooo) WH (w¥¥) J (xR00) 

wea: frrareqar farega: | wg | 

Fay TAR QUT BH SAAR MH HI AMT RI STA AY WH HI UH 

BY, ¥ BIA Bl UH FI TA Yoo Mf Hl UH HA | FAH AMT FH qT 
Swat #I anafe a ca wHt @- a Sa, w2,000 AEA, WH 
SATA ¥YY BGA TA Yat STA yGoo ATT | 


fay qatat - gesiqan: weed Way: 
TASH AT: Uh HINT: Tea! Bt 1 wd | 
Fay THR FIT S Tq FA-ky SST HT UH WH, 2 WH HT UH 
RK (AT A Be), ¥ RTH TY TA Yooo IY Bi UH HT Ca z | 
Te ae: Wuelheracesr Yorerrat (4) WT eet: BE 


FATA (2e,2G0) Preeiiqatatrig aast t G7 
PA: HATS APA 1 VoQgzive 1 Kariteet Bq Aer 
SATAY SATA MTEMAT (Qexiwy) SATATATA Wet FEAT I vox | 


wetted Feary, Be 


ar FY Sef WW GST ST A SPT BIT HR Fara A YRS AT Si 
ware at 2 sae YQ arn a us ees Het Tra Bea A a x, 
ego BIA Hl UH AM Uesd FAA s | FA AM H STAR R0R37/¥o 
area veat pt ufefa ae eexiyy SISA Sara SPT | 


aMrerfer Cathet TTT (30,¥e,xee) frdasareraraifeth: 
wreerafrpdartrand Wiserae Gay: (yoooo¥e¥3) 
Tet AY (yo) Hife faa fave ara fearne qa- 
fect q faafa: para tafe Safa: HA free t e041 
Tas sa geal BI PAPA F0xR Ce ASA AM BHA 
oooo%e%3 FATA AAT SISTA FETA UE Us: Go Hifeatsta Yea aT 
aarEa Sr | Sa wa vest a faa aaa at sa A areere & 
safativst ar A Hes | 
Aranfas ahifers afore s-x-strargerter efor 7 Oe AGA 
Araraerar fererpperaart Aearsry TA ST MOT TATA: 1 Yoke | 
ama ara, ae we, sscta af, aga & ate wa, ase & 
SAA Bret waHer Vit * ae Arearaa frat HR 4Pe & BAT 
Rifts Aterart (ATA) BW srs HT VT FH Sa FI 
Wea TIT TAT Fa TAT 
oft THER Hat afrasfer Fes 
frara cdo surfed areata 
Bereeh wa Fefagha: WHT: 1 go | 
3a var sete & farwara use A set st SRVTAT SMT TAT 
wa asta F Gara an ateret at feen & feu fora faara ctor 8 
wie faa afed ye ai steqTa GAA ET | 


O~SO Tr SOR 


safe ware: 
Tet BN THT 


aga a witha farrret qagfe: qerei- 

wie dist feardafe wrafea: waeq ASAT, 

wa avs MvSTata WaT BCAA: A AT 

fora ox thre faers Fe AER qaosens | tt 

wiht wiftrat at gfe & ud wen a wk & shxa sit fasa wy 

gfe & faa a var & asi od ait sik afe ate @ ote aosa 
sant fea 1 oa att dt wens aes aw sat gan | arate a 
Oat AS Jaw Jat A JT EU-sNHI, aTAVSa, Wars Avs, 
TNS ASA aay geal qos | 


areret & Fe at St Hed Hel Wa Bsr qa A AS (arf 
ye at fart are ten afe (eos a qd) B wa @ | (gasw aT 
sik aaa Fese Ue we F 1) yet Aequs B gaa ar gu Fi ra 
qat et gah Fat Yel B STH AX HANS TH alae safe aa 
ary ST ATT Ht AH HAM: aS she wea H eH EA Bi eat aa 
ary wera ®& sia wa staat ofe, aa, we, Fa snfe F 


ae: Wrage FA Waar: wer: 131 
food fertatn Hi wer t-garg wl snag Hed B 1 TAA SR UH 
Te UH Was, Seas, Was, Tae, uftag sik wae Fa WHER ay 
far & 1 
auiy afew Sect gare eretingeren 
aged 4 wae: w ret we wires PAeT Wea 1 x | 
geat @ 92 ater we yar 2 1 rat & dite Ae stk faga onfe 
wet | sat ore vere arg B1 Feest nite wer et BVT fee A 
= edt & ue 8 feera 


pet atte aha BW 


AMI BA Wat: WA Aane Tey AASdIy 
WH AA, UH Tol westa Vaehrersy 1 4 1 
Sa AAA HAN TAT Ws Han snfe wax vas H ssa a ait HT 
mat ufeay fen 4 ufasia @ | 


Wal Tas ways UM Beey Te we Way 
Herat BH MH AAT Ast A Stet za aA Aas BT 1 I 
sae mt aay nfa wm dat we smelt seu ata @ (wam) aT 
qe 8) ye at ace eet var aad % | Sa gre a aw fire fem 
Hyatt, saat farts fern FY arg ster dtl waft @ a cer eT 
are ol ast Tifa & HIT Bret At set fen A aerm fearat em, wea 
ena & Bai w saat sett nfs feared Sh 1 (eat ware we At ofa 
al RR Taw H SOT aera &, at wt ger 8 saat wae: get 
ace nft aga araert @ Sak we ara BT FB 1) SST GAMA I 
wry arf Tere Ta Uta TAA 
WeaHE a: BAT WAT | 
fasrat arafa Tas Va FEAT 
ware Gat aefaar saficapar i 9 | 
neay via yd at acH are 8 1 Tae art aw Alea a TEE 
Beart fra IR are We Ft S 1 A geet B ofa fen A aa zs 
(Aaa ACSA BH Gea) ata: A Wel Sl Ha Bh Tey stk Up] WE WHIT 
ete FI 
aaadaed acaterfatcar Hfordt qed | 
PMA Ted Ca AEM ASIN: HA Ta: SHeTAPT I 2 | 
qealt ant ae fe sit aE wT HAA Fae & ST 
stfaa sredor & eae art A eter uftada drat 2 1 ota: ves WETA 
en forrant wa EPS UTE & fare wen feral art 
qt vara aan caterer ata gare AAT 
Tee Tae HAT AeA AeA TAR HAT 8 1 
weal sik ge & aret ofa oz % fea Brat geenfa , Ae, sik 
TPT at Tha sterd ae BA A Sr Sk wea Ge at nfs At wa er 
a yea gt ax a at saat ort art ner wen eft 1 ae wa 
aero - 


BRo fasra aduy 


wet darear safe fetta years asarft faawar 
TACT Ta eran aearfhrarea Cfadeaereat 1 to 1 
sae vite ez at wer Set 1 ga sik yeat & ste 4 fers arf 
fa vita ge stk eye ar nea cfr war at | tae ai sik SAS 
fa aa Hat H an FY Her rn say ctfa a- 


weardrerygahral weet atite wear 
qian wars Hof Upersryga: HMATT I vz I 
qe att Ue ar re aot ares HEA far Taal BerHan At wet 
wT Gea & 1 festa var ath & ax otk as & wee ares & fa 
yeaa Vt @ 1 Gd @ wie ante wt qh 8 we wo aM ope we 
aot 2 1 geet & tine ante ant eat site wef aen cfr ax anfe at at 
vita wot et 1 
aaa vais wer Ha Gat Wear 
WASTE AMMAT TATA IATA: (XiecooLoo) | 22 I 
a, qa, Us Sl AEA PAT HT AW ¥,\v¢ 00,00 zt 
Wharray + ake gastate TT 
WIT AAA BTTPSTYTA (2,2%,48, Ko) FIAT 1 23 1 
wel (qa Feaa Hen) ANG, Teas aa Vly wr aerar Vita Bat 
BAe at Aer HAM (8.6%, 48, vo) AS F | 
YPANME WAG Targried WM: (3,¥8,44, 46o) TAFT | 
FEET BM ATS, TMMPIGTAT: (\9,230,3 Goo) 1 ev t 
Ye at wer ar Ve Har (3,¥e, 44,460) Arq Bt 
TTS Bt AST AT APS HAT (19,23,03, Goo) GNA FI 
THETE TATATE MAPS: MARAT: (BV,4C,32,000) | 
MW: BS Tara va, aaiieg PA-Ta: (6 ¥,223, Goo) 1 4 I 
TS BT ME A AS HRM (W,4¢,22,000) As SF WPT at AS 
PENT (¥¥,22,39 Goo) AA F | 
witrweat a wate (G0) WforaT Read EAT 
wear: Vita URI aH VHTSAT AT: 1 tq I 
We Bt vite (AA) HAM Bi IQo A AM WL WS St AETHeT B aM 
ew ay Tera at vite afte & sit anf Bi 


ret SNe ae, BN 


THT x VT seat 
AACHaT 
WAATA FE YHA (30,8000) HEAT Het 
Tr BAH AMTE SF ATT TART: (29, 2,22,6,000} | V9 | 
WK PA (30,G,000) AAT F | AMA PAT - (WO, 2,22, c¢, 000) 
aR & | 


EA A HAT WY (292) Slt a a FFA (Roo) fa: 
qearqate qari qasra-< aeaqary i ve t 
We Hr sreatt stat Hat HT eax A WOT HL gRoo B AM AA W Aa 
Sm Het We ste wiht at Ge SB ae aaa qa we HT yedt @ awh 
(eat) Sret Bt . . 
we gfe wart fret wear fasargar epet 
Weare Uta: Gatafad erry: 1 xe 1 
aeq aot at ope tat al He BM ae fas ( avec) a 
am ay a wa ga ar as F< at (qt) er 3 fre var aa 
De wl ewe dean frat sr % 1 set we qe sit eH % wis 
YAH GEHR ea z | 
grea, wpe abate wolgrare wea: 
pueda puleay feasat waHise G4aT 1 Ro | 
uedt x @ Ae arfe « wet ar ass A (gita eof wr & fore 
Beay ol at gait wena sant S aor ae asa GF art S| we 
aT ate- 


geared farsttare: are: aearft wofa: 
 ATEAT SETH (Roo) WfOrar FAATH (23k) THAT! AW! 
virreot @ tpn at fsa a am 2A a Ana snfe wet at ae 
S xits wet erm | wet wt eyoo A WOM HT wee A AMM SA W Hay. 
ert 1 
Aas Wat wha aaa: 
HA AI HA AAT TeAaT TIT! 21 


ate att ura ant sified SA are sxat Hat aga wa a 
a ara enh, ae @aa a aet oa wer | 


sia uftfa sist = 


* 


BRR ferara ae 
CAST BAM: CATAL: HATA (24,919, 88,9C,C,000) FAT: 
wet Canis at wag Va fesfes 1 23! 

Te & Ha Ae Hl Ve B Hegq aT B ON HI Hey rag feq 

a am ay aw ae a hrs aes fs Bret Z | 

tata oot aft: tara Sarat Aeraferar 
weasae fead tare aay ye 


Bee ene ery Per met ah one sre we A are 
area nfs wet sid & 1 


ite uftdisdrer watnreraferra 2R028C) 
BAAN (22, Roo) faetafar ws, WaT HA WTA: (oR) 1 Wt 
geal & ant ate gad at wera ares fet FH afa ( e20,c8¢) 2 I 


FR FT (8, Qoo) TM Taw (374) ee nr oye 
arr & | 


VPA ATH WAST ME WTA: (Ro, (¢o3) TTI 
starr ae frexs: (2,4¥,229) Uitdise aha: 1 BI 
wer eer Wart aR PAs EU qe sit ys ah ore srt arat 
A uae areat fer F afr HTM: (Ro,Qlog) TAT (%, 4¥, WW) ATe F I 
any wt ata 
aafrard BART (2ouR¥z) MAAAaTHL Te We: (UE, 933) 
MAMET AMINO UT: (89,907) FW i 
(8,04, 2¥6) ASA, 3B (48,933) GSTs TAT VPA (ve, 00¢) BAF | 
Tita He Tet taSatal Senta 
qafe uraweaer weaker arava | ye 1 


fordt we at aeravere nit er AHH (2, Goo) BAM RIA 
Te et woresag Har F ant Bw Wa: AST Taw (317A) ATA 


Betz 


TAFT (RoR¥) WE BATE KHSTAT WATATTH, 
Wad WH, AH Wars Taq Ae Nit: Bers wz! 
SSTSTH SPP BY We- A ANT GST A YOM Bl AHA ATT 
a amt 2 q a we eM za was alas St acs west Wo aE Ufa 
a ay an wae ye at ate wat B we afta A aS | Tae araT 
ae onfe @ we a aera F ape nfs ert | 


rivet GMT OT . BRR 


ag eter gerd Ser FS ATR 
auaafaaastr ara wr metas 1 301 
aA TH sarHdoy SB HITT We saat Han A SR ATA Sy A a 
saat od fern 8 aera wha car a cect & 1 wot ea a orfes BF 
wm aft od fern 4 atsarers aia ar were Tihs (staat aT H srqATA 
Hy) wart ert F1 | 
fafrarat cat: ure: aber arr nfe: qa: 
aprfrare wareret wHipaa: | 3g | 
AA SAI Wa SRI Bia Ga a saz a afar fan A (a) Aft 
Det & say we wot H srqara & arqan ei 2 | 
‘aft dha yard gatents aga: 
warad qaeaqhe: wea ofe fate 1 az 
wet & ant sik SAT: asl Hast A ax, qu, yw, cfa, wa, 
agenfa, ae yf &- tar waretr sara 3 wer &, HK ae eH fas 
wet @ | 
WASH TA: BAT HTT ZA 
coattiigaante: frat jaa: 1 331 
Se St Tet at wen a aerTe A HET TAT TAA we HB Hea 
ay (arget ToT sist) @ am AA az art Han F feat ae wet 
Ug fear % att aqua SRT Ua PT | 
ates feat fared qf arte faraferar 
SH Sl SM A FMM Ararat wreTat GA: av | 
Fa VSR We & Ha ad Gtaat saw Hx fay Hl ay AT eae 
stat art wan A we at feafa sk saat yet nfs fara | 


vititar wie qe et: woraftade We: 
GaTet T qaeaarTe Aft afeary 1 34 1 
ye feafa 4 sista seed & ero at garner (vite) TT 

Tas at (sat Ett a) we Bl TAA 1 yest, UH aT (ue st Ta 
feera & ure aera) dar we ea dt a uw ga 4 eat eas ean 
fa ward YH (saa eco a Ata wy) We aH erat & aM et 

TeaIS ASAT: HATCT MAAS Ha: . 

yaaa: eel gard ator: AAT: 1 Re | 


Era 6 fears atin 


ta a wre: seq nfs ara We (ANG, ARB, uf) arr aa a 
AR YA Ht aH BH wa F | 
serene pare fara fadared weer: 
ANT WerMTararta AearHl Paws: BPS: 1 30 1 
wits af yee age & we fara sik ex ot aa at sift am 
@ 1 waa Ara one wet ar Fete ca at afta ae fers ere 2 
Ufe SNS Aa: HAT WT MT WAT 
meres Ghee freter (24) fas wre We AT 1 8 1 
re orf wet er qd & art ace a wan afe wl feara a 
urea % ya sqar Vt A Sata ey ye aT Vhs era 
W- 
Term arat art were: aferar Fay 
faaret vir wuri=t arg Tarxe (8) fortarqs 3¢ 1 


TT ST HET CS Wa, Rae Sra (HET TT = BVIzE Hey 
Bam Sw Wa: 2 He) Wis ga ea Ht ST B PT Hz ity 
oof @ am 2a we aard FG HoT BT 

wert ant fee afearat Haar: 


MATT FAT As ACT fare TAI 1 vo | 
ee Se RA Ae Se Oe aCe Seat as, 
aR % area sea sat zB | 
ae: fre Hat wTTHTe Aead 
PTY Tea: WseyeTay | xz I 
aet ang set aaa F wv Hen Ufa fen A fear 2a 2 1 
ater aaa thre fart sei Chaat @ | Tas sa fer Tea SH wAA- 
Wa Vale Sear act Hake ATA, 
ward afad sé Herhacata arf aq) xz 1 
aa & arf seu cary & are sat aa & ae chen aries | 
we tat set erat 1 AS (Sears Fy) Aha ea Fer eT CST Ge CTT 
aft wet Rear 8 
PHS Heat TAH HA AAT 
GASH ACaM MANTST BRETT | v2 | 
amt: At a @ od foara & faa Han aA BT Term 4 Aa anfe 


sitet wet ay BW 
ar wel wt mat set 3 


wah FAs TEM VE Hs afsar 
ahrgers aofar wet fear athe: | xx 1 
we 8 Ufa (at TR) erat Set ase rare) seat ax Het 
a pn. wt Oa fred a wet & sryan wa wef ay G aT aA HK 
Sl HH Ma F Ta SRA TSA aT. eT a 
VHA YMA SRA AMS WH 
HUET We A OMa: VAs, TA: | wy I 
Ue Va Se as A SS a OT vat H VE A gery G Ys seal 
& wera we 4 (fa aK aT SRR oy -co H ata TAH ) Bit BT 
ated & afr wre & (tft aH HT AAR Y9R WE F Sra) TH aH 
Hl SET BF Aet Slat A AT A Sat AEs | 
afe fxtta vata gitar water: 
ward Ae Beard qeavistraeta: 1 ve | 
fog ye set & fata ore & ora A (fa aK SR Go) TT 
HOT sent & farts we w& ard HF (eft VK SrA Yoo ) WH HI BN 
fara ye cham @ | sta: AA gat wot sa Wet wt gern A afew for 
ca 
REM vada fraariin fa: Ta: 
yan Haare westeta Beat t ve t 
a & areq a ot vel at wen sik fea ar ast a Gi @ 
sey at att ot at wan stk fag on get at (qa fear at 
deren 4) aé sro fae ern arfea 1 ore: sa at ar ars fea var 
SAN ESN TAHT ay HT LET FI! | 
afe, weathacdt cam eqart weer T. 
farmriseat art etarat aft Ward: § ve 1 
| ae ata ara fork orqara af ustar set et & 1 ort: AA ge 
al death sara tater fears | 
wafaaatete worared Freer 
faanfa agenfr arrartifa areas: | xe 
wafaen sofia A wore (3) & aef wl cared & aaa Wa wT 
SATA 92000 AAT BET F | : ; 


BRE fart edu; 


srrerqgetvine faegfa afar ait 
gm frat arh fered yoarae Fat Aa: t 40 | 
merged wart A stad ae Ff ct gan et fae ( qt cara a) 
wel @ | od faara 8 geet an St ara fear Wa 2 ae at em foe 
ca 


neq fara at da aay ofirar: 
MEHTA THAT: (3%) Ad fawet (32) Aa: 4 1 
warae err tt gel at meq fare wer (32132) & fran orewa 
art 3 wer? | 


Wag ser Tarast Holarat walfea: 
Ae: HM: WATT Tey wer THAT | 4? I 
aA va oxa faraaeen (an areas face cara dsr) % arora 
a tia wot (yet at tt) ar a Hele |. TAH STAR HN HT AMT 
Hel S| Wet wt aaa vita wa sar a 
Sor: ufora: fererere WMS ate ATPTATT (3G) 
wa Faxa: FS aA Ta HHT YHA: 1 43 1 
ary Tet #7 xine aftfer ft (square ara) farmerdt & 1 cfr He Hen 
aa HT (qe stk BH Fh) vite afer & sit @ AM He yG0 B MT A 
TR WAT: qe sit YS Bl set sett Han aw AA sa 1 
q Sara farera: He: ofthe arms: 
ear wae: waht we WaT 4x | 
amt arti sfra aftfa & sigt @ gq Han A ar e§ a Na, We 
aik wit a wen eri i va wer wt AP a arsed (a UTfa) 
Bat | 
ae erent aren fare ATHY ATTA, 
Tears aha wat fararera Har 1 yy | 
afa sik cer at afean feat 4 aan OF & Sr yer 
ai ae fers ar or we frat men 2 1 
qatar Gare Tea: wa 
vit Gregan Ga AS TT YHA: | 4G 
aa @ aaa ya 8 fers (ara fern 4) wet ar wes eitrwa, afe 
qeat @ aaa ya % fera qe siz aw @ ei wa a- 


it wae opr ; are 


aes seas wae titer easy 
Waet WATE HAAN Hea: | ys 1 
aifas dra & aa tine, We wh aw ite wa an cle 81 at 
aa ert qa (tfa aaa fern an yaaafem) & ara Het 
wet BATA (30) TM THM Ae ea: 
wareerat wary a Ara fafwar fears i ue 1 
3ho HAT EM HF HOT YF (Aaa) Hat Hl fa Ha A 3eo0 WH AM 
tat | atest anfe aerat & faces sa aerat at feerfa din anit 
ah ald et FI 
fra ard Yad: cant: uftdtad 
wane ante afat ara-t aosaTarfy 1 ug t 
ad ak ws at forg ara a aot aa Sa 2 | Aaa a at 
ara ea 8 san fara a ermB 
frat aeerteattrareatet Test 
fraoqra Walaa searareaa PrareiT 1 Go 1 a 
aa fare sik ott aie & ata sracr ofgan frat qt wx wart 
a ae frag core & aaa che ae att feet wet eri 
are woes cara, Horie farraishr frat 1 eet 
wat ak ae & ara & edt at fers cara @ AM we ut cara 
a am 2 a a ak Se Sof a aa | ae get BATT BIT 
aot S fara Fraare ot aaa z | . 
fe aearet Aaa: UH, Vay Heaa We 1 
A ATA AEST AAMT TAT GQ 
aaa y4 Sea al sed & aa ye a uss fagat ws ae wa 
a Gh a 
faara age yet fog Taree 7a: 
Aaasaeaal At fararare FeIT 1 2 I 
va 4 gen fox Sy Wt Gat ace ST clara A sa Be @ vaTT 
SA 3 ror fast are wT sears cra & 1 


ae oe fossa en gen fact . 
- fara arared at Te Sof: BRET Taq! Ex I 


ESTA fart edu 


. Sa WETS cara @ fox a ora Be W EN et Bsa Aaa 
ak fax & ara at edt at fara gar & a at UR ST BA 
(qa a) ape wot arm 2B 
we wer veeaty ature waleat 
facierat winer Avs ae fread 1 ey I 
faa art att ue a ax wre seq Sa BVA WST HT 
ar art & fem - 


We, fare, Teta St aX fararfrarsay, 
TANTS AT HAPS FAHY 1 GG | 
aay efe tara B ag ere at Sh Wl GH We UA Te STH OT 
wan, faad sat at wax fora SH aH | Tal VA wary a TAN, 
farae arr fara vet Se | 
we fade Besa Te TaATHT aa: 
Sead YR Te aq ars Tees WITT! ev 1 
sae Ta set Be SM forage ara (aa we ) aw fara Macha 
ay | Ta Se w agquist w- 
UHH AMAA ATA aga, 
wet ART WE Aa Aarararfe Whasa: | ee | 
ae oF (ar WE wt geet @ qd) B yp we aera ak tia F 
ara wt att & am 23% 1 we ae we a ferse a erm | fara ATT 
Prorat et we aad aes fafa 2 I 


Fares (Qu) VST AST BEA FRAG Ta: 
Parsi (c4g/o) Wa A St CTAATAT | GR 1 
YW BA BETS A UE sige ® arrax chant 2 | ata: ata, sik 
Wet Ga HT Sreaz Fae HT agate (awae = cug YR) Sie AT 3a BTA 
TH WTF | 


ae dy greeter, 
WAI STH WH STA AT | 0 | 
zig A orn tae ety atk ada onfe a Tea Ha Praren a 
aaa 8, Tas ay fea cer FFE AEA Tas z | 
saeq drdisdte sera wager 
wrinfifaee vorna fafa! wz i 


ye aM aay, 32 


saat 4% feaa da & feet fee A gamer w oF Fig TH 
at Saat orn age | 
wert feagt fravarat Aaa: 
fadra ste aq War waafsaa | 2 | 
ae fon ¥ san et Sa uw ak vig Vat Saat ore At ara 
at ani sig & ara wt edt ot araa @ 1 sae car vig orn Sear 
qeatt Sr Tera Bt 
qearet fart sree: 
wed ura, Mee ee Tae TaeTATT | 92 I 
wa Al WIA Vie BT SP HL Sal Bera az cha Wat S@ Wa 
wig et at ert 1 
ary we YA Ae ced Toa 
WES VaTSTa ae crf faq i wx i 
aaa Paras & wea TW afer anet eft sa sig at Sars BP 
et Ue wig HT STAT A aM Vy w dla sl sua Spf | 
WHEAAGMY, VAs: SMH BHT: 1 4 | 
vig ott cia & aha wt att a vig VIP at BIT G AMT AA 
aM sae wi Hl Sad Ver w cla wt saa eri | 
arate wdaTe aa saaer faciterd 
Ta TAT Yee Maaverfirarad 1 oe | 
Wel UP Ha TH & AaB ada ar 9m (aed) chat @ 1 agi 
a1 @ Uh Ue Val (AH Fa) FY WAR goo cvs a afew ge w 
qaeeiteedt we fram afedt sry 
qaxeana: art ger eet qafery i wot 
4 B14 Sa ee sik dh vig eenfaa wth | ae yeast a GaE W 
vet tat 4 (a4 Ga) UH ct ca ve wah faa sa adn Ff ada 
(a7) 3ik ig eT sroamT usm far a era 
we art aa fife faenraritegal tar 
catrat fret artsaie war wear 1 ec | ‘ 
ado feafa @ arat ig wr orara am fee we ford Waa ato at 
TaN aM at wa Es at Sat vErR veda si St TH aat ett At ara 


3Ro : faera addy 


erht 1 ua aie wea et We ST A UH Vig BU Taal Sam Frarei wy 
wed e 1 
We MRT WE seat weeafs 
frit foretrotar ferefa, ae Fava ATes_ |< 1 
Uda ST Ska AM AM YUE a SH sexs AMT AT | fare fata 
ign BT OaaqEe Sra zt 
scat ea cae aencneee 
want ardart arearat aaa at 1 co | 
too BI Ts Sa feet tes wt Sarge ATA & fay ca Be a sifag 
dt & a wig enfad SH 1 TaH sen Hae 4 aa saz K At aE 
Vig Tar SH Gea B 1 Fa Vigil ST sae A eo BTA aT Be NT 
WAHT BT WMHETATSTAS Ty, 
qetarea sat we Aearnfa asa: 1 ce 
Te a BF a WES SRT Vig Bt BIT aM As ( gar Ht Alet) 
at rar et afa (crag) ara SU 1 VG HI Ae Gat St aret ora 
at fa SB AM HT 
ATA SSAA: WE WaT TA: 
a: wg SALSA A adel WaT! cz 
amt orn afta 8 am Aa RW ga wl sata er | ga a sfa 
at Vig ST SN He VHF A aAM ea KR Ga Fa F Bray as Hi 
fa ar art eT | 
AAMAS TAVSAAS aH iat Ferhat: 
WATT TANT AL AMCACATAT AT THTHTT | 23 
Fe ora: fear tea we Tad sik Ws & are a wreia ev a HN 
Hare | Se aay say tena Gs gest WH AE Br aw att A erat FH 
ArH | _- 
. fren cary wearirrarardismgtd: Fey 
A Aenea JAE ATArad, Ae fesHiEra i cv | 
TH tart a AT Sra st att Bl fren (3x32) V A wr GF 
atk te & ata pores ett @ 9m BA Ha Fe BEN a AG TH af 
(so) ar art ern 1 sa Hof ar set Hr & Viger 8 yen wt Brat 
apof Sam 2a a qa at fee FH (Fea aot B Fe aa aH BH co Er 1) 


ate ete ae : BR 
AAT Tea TA SET WET 
wWisratats 34 wri HAT cyt 
ae eof @ Fe ca cm ate a ad ert | ca aot at sig A VM 
at Sporn @ AMT AAW AAS Be HI Sars Er 1 get wa Fofers 
Tfora BIT sta (Tare arfe at) at Bars Fraret ot aad z | 
ETS Warsi ote ara fereacra, 
fare: Seat whee Hera ares: PT 1 ce 
sored sear 4 efe die at ett a aefa fara war ar | set 
HS sit HST TT TET @, foraa geal a ties sik aE St aT | 
qa afar va rafter woseT tc | 
4s & at sik Qaeanr A st wig & cea din a fare wea 
ei Tet wl vig ar exe falas aosa Hel STAT eI 
fawarqfagieare 4: Yat ta qead 
Taearafassst W YTKId AM: 1 ce | 
oh ada aga oft & arr yeot at wae @ et cham 3 aet wd 
SA LMA RW asy B fears ear zB | 
are farpers om fatrr qa: 
Wat Bret Wat sead fa We TTI ce 
RR fead at udat wt efe ater & omar & ct fats qa sara 
wee | art adt & fer waa 4 feard cafe at art ada cram 
aa wa: feahroreat araTtsariga: 
Wa Sxad War Sed farsa Aa: t So 1 
use Uda (si) & fafast (qa & din fae a) wet S gat wig 
Tl HS st (Alet A Ho Aa aH) creat | 
fafrsagea ferarar: fafrars aT 
Yforat: eee TT ATTfAT: TAT SpeT: a 
Tatas @ fera cafes at gar wig at frat art (el A) <heaat 
@ Ta at vig & srt (Sars F SAAD BN a Saw ata wt ad 
a UM Sa Uz vig sma at Spe ceaferm anfe eri | 
wants cdtaears wd, fart, 
aaa FST AA: ASRAd FATA | Fz | 


* 


33Q faart cay 


afe et cefit a1 gfe fattest tet Frere 8, at ew fafa 1 ait 
@ tt gan oda vet feartt em | 
Tettstatrterd: aeife fates ate 
aaa Trerres: ge atettt Aheat 1 <3 
ag uda & fafat & dra et afe ore ada a fafas aa at at 
as aa at dim a ta we fark ag uaa feng OT Set wea are 
A tet wx ot vet cham | ae geet 4 ofa gan chem | 
srafetrrente afe ears tara | 
aereraat Teale carat ffs at 1 ey | 
ae att oe oda ot fafa ga ten cast wedt a a east Tar ax 
Tat Ta B asi uda soars A san cham | 
q oe afe qet ray wT cue 
Taspedisty Great sea farcrata A 1 yy 
fa ye afe cdo as Aaa VIM AH ast Bars az feera Star 
at} are az Bre wre uda geal et uae A aM Bal aM | 
Bq Weta SHet Aare Fre: fare Ws 
aay ava frat wiftawer cere 1 ee 1 
ada & fafa ot geet ar Tice wae chan & 1 oda ferax 
RR SH SH RH Car S hfs aH (UP Fa) FH Meg BE 
alert & | 
wre, ware efe abies Serra get cha: 
sefa Yea: WaTeETART THAR | gw | 
uta a sax feera safes ueta a Aer arn we ftert safes & Sera 
faerie wea gales tat & 1 am are F qatar za 2 
frsa: wares air THAT: 
uaa Ta Uree eet: feaherse Frerarg t ge | 
arg fa era Sar oa Mae KM fers Sa Tat GI Ty 
WTA A Qooo BA F | 
ARMA BAY WHAT TWIT 
wor ates Tarst gH, Frasier qonfes: 1 eet 
ada % pur sik aa & fafa F ara aw ser afe ws Wa a 
HT Sl Mt saat Wear aet Met Fae cH fas SA a ot ae FH 


are Te ae, 333 
ope Soar wet & | 
eet tacain fos Werf satarehH: (20%, 26,880) Wha 
waeq uffadatas verge ferararHare | 
Wat feanied a yt arith Wear aa 
Se SIT Wasa TOUTE: TAT TANATA: | Yoo | 
TTT UPS (Covxgeo) BA S | TA UW we vigpait ait ef arn 
al ATA SIRT Se agerter (ew HRA) H Hea 1) VAT SI ATA woes, 
at SAT FI VS we a WH ver B ana F | 
SM GAT: (ER) ML WHT: (RR4) HAMA: (22) 
WAT: (Ys) BTSTa (xo) Matfer (2¢) AAT (Ro) 
HTSM (2X) FER (Qo) MAMA: (4) WAM: FTA 
WUT (KoRR) AES, THA: (REYv¥) PATIS A: 
aq Arratted: TeTaht (WAvx) Til 
ATE: (WoR&) TAATATTA: 1 oR It . 
Riga ot Tam sik saat oa dha yy Sra H Fa wea - 
ig Pea | (MES EMT (ea A ) eH MT (es Sra FH ) 


YoRR RRR 
R Ro¥E RR 
3 oRY £2 
% RR . wo 
4 BUR ¥o 
& Rr RB 
9 ay Ro 
é BR NY 
g gq Ro 

Ro é 9 

RR x & 


weet wig at om GT Parent & faa wig Ht Saat FH (vo<e) 
Ba GAM ene org Vly vig Ht ca SMT (2q2 BTA TE) H aA 
(RE, VY) ST IPM HA saat atye ca z | 
TMEATE FEIT (22¢,00,000) SeTAATT 


SITAT SATA BHF (2G, 36, ¥o,00 00 00,000) 
AHATAS TH (2%, 00,008) ata (28, 30,0 0R4,.4E 00, oof) 


BIT PTAA (Z4E,00,002) TEA (4048/3) | 


a fran aio 


gH ata Hrerqtata I, At (Rgoooor) FACET 
eerfermigy Srafasreed Tae HTT | 02 | 
Yel BT CANT (%,%,00,000) BIT S 1 FAH A Hl Ueat H oaraTS 
at F 9 Sisart Tae Fe TW SRR Ga HT QS Frerein | ae ww 
Be & VE a Ta AAT (4048/32) BTA EMH | 
=e vip at ca Sat frome & fers uw wes vig aT Ca ATT 
Soe ee 1a 
fafa @ ¢ are we wT ce SET arent | 
fearee ORT ATS waTaraaefeahe: 
SBT aaree Wha: Carer Hef UT: WA: | YR 
fea, ad, era siz arat & sfaufa aaa & fee st var at 
(area) oe fearfa at sree | aaa wa afa ara we HI Tae Bar 
Tat saa Are 


ag qf pe: Be ready Hay 
ad earareetee ataraae LRT L govt 
WaT: atfaes fa ara wet at wa | aa ferara ® arqer wa 
FA a wa 8a, Te, Ane, a, Uw, ge otk az | 
aearedtse eared wat fear: 
TRY CHRTATAT RST ATAATSRTATT: HATE | Lou 
waa wf ax A a aw afsats fer wr sifsafa erm | va WE 
ferfa Faye @ free we area ad a aferafe erm | 
aret Srerfeat hare fatter: aftatffar: 
AHTS WATER TAT FTE (Vv) WETS: t YR I 
We He ko BoE A a Hohe Gr orem cio St Ta F 
STAT SIM F | 
seed Hare falar: Sy: BRT Bray ATATT: 
— Weareh fer aravee eitet warxferta: 1 gow | 
We ST sey HC HTT: SU sl AH VA eA WE AAA Aa FT 
afiafa eo 1 gfe & sien 4 ta et fea, ara, ad sik OI HT 
arfeafa et 
ag are fererat watered Brera: 
ATare: Bret Sitar wate frag frat 1 toc | 


pia ate qo, Erol 


dtafead an orfeafa, ara ar afebpr (ate) ak ars at 
afeafa ashes art a erm | 
wre area: get Fa: wer fra 
fe (to) [HSA A: Ba Get WA YT MAT 1 og | 
weat 7 Het e fH at a ast ase sik aarat WH AT @ goo WM 
afaa & | PTS Yo WN BA W Fa HI ATH Yoo PM eat FI 
AIT: Wat: VARS AA Aa: 
AS SAA SHAT SA SRT EAA AH UPL 1 ego 
AT HT VAR BATHS AH stTaR slat B | sta: feat cara H CAAT 
arr fart verre faret ett ot etm, wh cara ar Saat St AT Yo TPM 
att a erm | 
Wareaaa a sfrakaors fera 
farea Wet croararfars Seat 1 rez 
| go TM Ett HK AT Yo AMT ST Aa Si sta: YAoaa A (2,000) 
Ten eo we yt fee 
sor erat aarfe: care, fecorrararetct 
HT WET Feat MAT TOT UAT t yey t 
at wat ora: Ware VY ardt @ 1 std, s=1 Teal wT at ft say 
SaTa Yoo WM qt W VAM St aa s | (Rife sae Ast Wt AT 
I YRoo 8) 
efter coef are: career ihrer tare 
wratra carta: Bt Youre, Wearerar WH: 1 223 1 
get war geat & ast at Ta dt cara @ Yoo APT atl WH GAA 
Bi srt & 1) fer Sy THaA sTTA cara B yoo TM att aH Srl F | 
arfrariecor Sark ATT art (24) TTUrTfera 
gfe atrergird crorh-aqyfad: 1 eee | 
fare oof at ater site 24 ToT att aa Sete 1 che din ar 
arya AF dtu, tf sik ax & aqua @ fear 3 
carey fe qf fares @ & Sey ATA: (92,000) 
ere Sof AAT WATENTET ATHAT: (2¥,¥o,00, ooo) 1 RY | 
as fara HI Sara (92,000) GR Fi ata: Tat Wat din af 
(Zit) e¥,X0,00,000) TT F | 


Be fossa ado | 


fart orth auiser aifeerrea FAT: ('9,2o,00 c000) 
a al wyd4: alte afrar (%,20,00,00 00,00) att fd: 1 82g 
WA st FLT HT AST (9,0, 00,000) GAT Te TAT feewy wt chaz 
el dtr (2,000 00,00 000) area 2 | 


PATA AMSAT (30) ASAT 
feorart waar careiser weaiiefe: 1 geo 1 
TAS & are atk art AA SY Ago BM HET UE feoy Bra sit 
ad wm ara rat 21 feoa a a at atfe aera 


aa: afardsvser Fart args: Tt: 
@ & Al WI 8 AT MIS ATE A (3,G0,00,00,00,000) Ot ayg: 1 2 1 


wavs HB Aa F 1 Ae VM aA A vans H STG 
2,&0,00 00, 00,000 ant z l 
AVS Se HATH aI fry caca faye frat 
AME MF PIATATMATA (2%,30,%19,G0,00 000) 
aia: 
Barada wy fa aq freer sremsisty gear 
S=yat foray FRAAT (92) WH Fat Adoras afearfofat 1 v2e 1 
wet uw gf stk at aa Wars! I Are ae St UM BI aaIvE 
FTA SHS St Pall BMA 22,30.%9, Go 00,000 GIT B | TAH 
aa a asta wen ot wer ot ama 8 1 sat att a at fare 9/22 
faforn stefa 4 ufa faeren erat & 1 ara wet ar far form wT 7/02 
ait cheat & | ae A saa firs 4a Ht pS HET | 
ary, Tee Seatie UAT fasart araead 
wa UA SRT ATT TER, HUG CHPaaae: 
HUTS Ft TAT TH Voll Tear Heat Ter 
fe tye af dere PferPra THT 1 gz 1 
at aremrard ! aret wer & fa Gd feo arr area a et & 
we et A Bren sey Prat %, al svar Hat & 1 sa Ha 
ama & snfaenn H sya we we wea 4 aed & i sae wa fag 
safe afe tar wear &, dt en cit fawn wer srt Bi aN HET 
TAHA BS TAM WH FHT TAT 
ufe care, TervSlex UfePrar wr ehrrer 


apiet SMT OTL PEI 

Haifae specread. Patty Aree As Wa: | YAW I 

att man Hye ye ax weNoS & tex ale we snr Ha 

aR AST Gera 8, A aim sey et ae A uiafest Ya aA a geat 
a offe & are ant aat ret aad ? 

aieertar<e Teh 7a 

q qq astiath (26,198, 20,88, 20,00,00,00, ooo) 

at Tees a aaa: |@ ufefarerarie aera 

wets fae (8422) Ger fa carga aestt 

ae Sate: qa: fate: sa Fed Graishea TATA | ezVz I 
_ STF STHTRT Bt ULE BT ATT (RZ, 19%, 20,88, Jo,00,00,00,000) ATT 
wea 8, Sah UH Te aT A ft wee aT A ORF aT GR? ST 
adi Br @ | (saa sea sifrs 8) aa SrA Ne HT STH Met 
uff cam Get Ha Are HEAT & ? 


watet verseinaa: eqefatterats 
wiererpTT: pa Brat at afraray sft 
TENS aS WT aft erred At pst 
feraere cat fasta qsrter feats SafAITT | 222 I 
aTaT aaa as sia sit sad ® wereaqg F 1 sae fas wat 
wy & tax feat var & fara & 1 ae wen ft vet ST THT 
amt: ae at got ¥ sora ar at afer fee wan %, ae wa fret 
aét een fag fark ward yeat & areca st ae chad &, wet at 
Rerfa & fara 4H % sree art we | 
Wa Yetrtat taqz: 
ware qerrara Fraera TTT! BB I 
RSFRR SRT vierae ar ae SF we Veo weer BE a, ferret zz 
wt are viet Pare wre ste Bex chan &, wat att vies Ga aaftrafa 
Wt te Gireragerrsir) serene sift te opt AF WA we re oT 
TSA HT 


BRC 


sft Wx Sat adt afrasis fre 
fears cdo sorted are are 1 
WTA: WATT FE AT MISA: 1 ky =, 
Ta Wer Sela & sare TsSpa Fe ft SR STR SRT TOT 
ak ef 8 aaa & faa an act at faen & feu fea fas 
ade 3 aes ote orem & fara A 39 at weHTe TATA Ea | 


cay on ne a 


fan wat & vet at af an wer snfe sear @ ae aA ao 
ama & | mremfa oft far aa & aet SAT aT ward 1 sta: sirexerax 
aratt en a aan aa Prater ar acts ares Hee FI 
wad four vata ers Bret FeTT 
aI: YAtarat gt Fer: 
aa: feata qautt warEacey 
wrarra: Ferepye farrell wf 1 21 
ara atk wre Fe S aa HE VHT hE, TAB claz ot HE Ta | 
STA ST sar S Ara ST Tad | Sah HS & fara FH aa fay 
H vet aA areit & fea avis ox eet FI 
Terese ane fared Tay 
TarerqeEnrtefarag 131 
Wel at wa & tet sat & a A eT ST | UH UH Ha ATT 
AM THT AE SA Aton | ves & a F wes sara H Hers | gar 
& a F cad oret af S we war EI 
Wart Aart Tandiscadt wes: 
WS TH TAN Wer wad AGE Ti vt 
Te att cass wat Boar wt ak BeiET Ha TH STA sik 
ae fafa eaasit wt yet at-qaife ae, Aaa AUSa, Ut aH 
Sarfe ce wer Terarat west fees 
ater? ferearant atte aa fasta 1 4 1 oe 
TK ate cites Ue, (YR) ser aay Ye Forea fever gx eT | Ta 
ae fret & aa aa & fea teresa aren area et 
Frata fatrie ve qerfiraaet afrer 
arorik wrRTeatert arts Ta . 
TS TT Us Yeay et ard frat afefa « shy Bi Tay we, 


Bo frart ain | 
AMR sie wea sifera ee | | 
Trey ea after faeradreraren: 
| Wea Siew Pat HM Set Ae oSTSAT 1 wt 
sae ara 4 ga wr 4 usen de a ga afe oman i ae ate | 
(SoSt) Tere, erat se ater & wer oan eM | ae ga TST 

oT TAM F | Ta ARVs HET ITM F | 
aratrecared ware at WSTHTAt ater 
wat a aM ot wane os wT Ic 1 
wa Ae cus al GHSy & few war ais (u-eyvi) Bre Ht att w 
afaror att Tat H Mt 4-4 Bre aT Get cam B fea BIA 
ereraea qt gefrtara ert Tr 
farts erg at qa aee WH WaNTT 1 <1 
ae at qe ses F ar canst aha aw fear feat ae (aH 
am sitet & seng 4 ere eh) Sat F aa ere at Sar w ga ate 
Wart & fore we UH Be BL | 
get pit career Waa Aa eeaerat: 
q wae TH aterarera: STF 1 t0 1 
2 BIT Ht WA Sars Arar tara A SUT BVS FH TA Hl ATH AAT 
afer os F re at ace Ua Um Be HA | farad ya aie Te UH | 
SCR, AIST TERA SAH APT 
Wearaent (3¢0) Tor fra AS fata aries GaTs ez 1 
ata at cereft. cet er geo sia Sen A Ge Far Bi | Tat wa 
wr are fiafirsr oa ei 
Gear wa Brey qatar whey arerpenTeay 
ae Prater wpe arrears a BAT 1 kz I 
Se See an ee Sn ea ao Same IY 
Teen 4 siigex fret tart F et Be 
RraTaaay waharerers: TAT 
VATTAAAHAM Wer TeaTAes TWAT 1 2 I 
at sat ga aft waar eth ste arg & Bet F Ta carfira HI | 
ae crt qe aw wh fered saat yarn ot ae 1 ert & ste ate 
% geaft ar titer <b | 


Theateraat tente ay . B¥Q 


afitar Tat Ue Tales (30) Wet wATAT 
argt avsa Aer aret wa fafeat seat t ex | 
tem atk 3¢0 site eT ate at Vet aT Ga aaTAA ike Tae geat 
at faqad ter & de ox staiq fafas otk salar ge & ata F 
TaN | ga at aosa Hea 2 1 eas ae val ot fafad att 


aearsdat fata ff qurawes weg Ge: 
VS ATH: PANS FASTA TATA: 1 Ay I 
faga aa & efarmr sax St acs, 2,2, sie 3 Ue a wa & 
aurat siya Hl eth UL 3-3, HoT & BSA Fa (HAT: BS STAT FT) 
ze Wet A earfta ST 
qa afe fran fag cari wore =f: 
TAA TW MATH: ALA WT (3e0) AAAFATAT | 2G 1 
ga afe & at ace ct gare wer ama | fara SH BE 
% afe $F crn sam | Taw aco aisit ar fafaa ax Was sist a 
waR Beret Ufa a oT | 


aetretonrmrnaty arti att 
earRaqasrhae gat der areait FT 1 vw 1 
Wear Bl at aT a es Hl SH fara ae frre el | ga Hears 
% Fg aeey H (0° MW) Tal Ya AM Ter snwy (eco) WH afar ga 
fag 27 | 
qa frend woard aay Lary at CM: 
crarferdy aren ata wet aopstaery: 1 te | 
ao fae 8 wes & ora A ate } SH gery &, THA UH UH siya 
ae ee ee 
8 fers (gut det & ga H) Sh 
arfagaa aoa wares whe YA WAR | 
sere cattar geahrat ate (3e0°) ALATA 1 ve I 
HTS & yest we ata at er A ga a fags Hl aH aa & Aci 
We ge frost | ya oa ga wae: He sa AA | ae fags 
W wae Fret eM | 
AAT AERA Fe Agra Pepe faa i Yo | 


¢ 


BvR Frama atop 


ate & rea 8 of aha ar stp cera a fated Sih | sah ae 
| aaa tepa Fe srfe ar faqgag qq 8 aernr TAA | 


aente TH Tad: ween gat (3130) wT Got fagart 
aettt greater anteart: atare: 1 2 | . 
wife aie faye Ga Hl UA ch SH Tae Var Bh ETA WT 2Q” 
32 BUM | Fa IPA Gea HT et ea Tha aMl Het sr | 
Seate: wre, er ae fg vem wae 
Wert caters fifa wed crcafers area 1 221 
Ba ad & ow, a, ye afar, cen afer Sax (STR) Fa WHR 
q fag Sh 1 were fg a @ cafe wer arm 8 1 sed & cafes 
al wed waar wea F | 


warelt wareaesearsy faara aT; 
Wet tart & aT BSIPaTaA Feary {1 BI 
sicaaie wal Scie GrGhe mint aa a RS 
we farosa BUH WA OM at UT: © UP ad MH farosa sik 
wiht oa or fret (Ta) HATA | Para fargsit S ds afer wt at 
uw 
Ware, Wate, Wea aTeaET farrese HTAA: 
WAM SF AMT HEASTATAT 1 BW 1 
urd & art Wed crt (fasosa sik wiht ga) wT SRR we 
TRA WK aay Tee she carr feen F eT 1 


fray Pare: Wars wet ah: qeeHAT wareq: 
oe ay RR ea se ne 1 I 
Hine sife wet ar fasose st vet fafa @ aie arm 1 fa 
ere unit A eae vite we 8 dear wer vem 1 wef & aqua a 
Sr Wea Fre we Say St SA UW Sa Vet HT faavsa wha 
qa S Sa Aa Sart LEM | 
fats art Prisepese ars TT 
TH BY WET Cafes IT SATA 1 REI 
fra tm a fafast ga srr wnat a (faye @ see ar far) 
SRSA HEA F 1 TA Ga B ST et a Hl scafa ert z (aa 
fafas & gant Oa & ere aaa sik Ufa a seq faye @ wea ar 


arenfaere Meanie ao : 3x2 


“are 4 da 2) wera a1 ae AAR AE SET aT 2) stéR Fa att 
ARR Ga Vara Sl TS Hea S| UTS B feafast aatqa HF Taare 
ga wR wa at aft Het S| farsa ga A eta aT sreaen wea TI 


Tat faye Hat caged fata FATT AWAry 
arristt fatae faa faftst ard wearcaTa 1 Ww | 
at aren aa, faye sit ara ga ok fafast aa ga at at 
SP Pee Sg te ey Saleen aS ol 
aét a se Baran set ST aeT | 


ss ateacqaabtue aavatia sania: 
cafe aaa aes det Ee MTT 1 RI 
geal & Te ga ATE a fare Tar STAT | ATT ga THIS feat 
ara, fe Ta aa A ash | Ait H ST we ast Ta VI a Te 
RAT S FAA ST THA B I 
Fea Maca Heat aa Deaf fara: 
Tecra Hirer wraar Tad: wpe: Hrs: Lae 
Fa var wile TT ee Ww see we stk aR aw fara far. 
ara | (ther et) sara ste (aT Wel aT) VR Prepret HI Tet HT |Hr 
afar sist went site Praarett | 
frat yrt: qa: UPwaT Wet: TA aT, 
THT WeMTga ware whe ihe aTeag 1 Rot 
Al Det wt aay arat fanosa A sret afer wx cari we SN 
Fay Tet safe at fara aT Gea S| Wer Hl MTR Vas ATA BT 
Tit Bt HST HU | 
aartereasqanid wat Weary wet Aa Aet 
qa an ana afers frafara: werear fre | at 
ae write cat cit feats & sree at eA 1 eas ae GT 
TT at Tay fre WHR aa wT | ae Saray ST tet Bt Vet 


det Fo SAY Sate STM TSI AT ae ee Os 
(titer Se Hey * few) 


ae afecte a ante ofs adted fraetrarg, 
wa fates get wofist arer areTerz 1 alg 
Fas ae aie wet Gita TATA | ga aa FH & Tat a 
en Swan fates ge, vate ge, aR Fe, 


wee | fuera ainy | 
SUOTST Ft Ane fee avsa As wearhsy | : 
frre Sie Wel Mier wert qaea 1 32 1 
a Sgqa an fea west ga aa Fae qu gs sik aaa 
SR Tae stat vite Tay ras fear fret aT : 
safe ee afer seared Warf athe areas, 
we Gieatacsnta ast Tara: care: 1 ax | 
Ta aA wat wR fer F ra dar vel HT sea sk aret wet 


er & fee et wert & Sue sit Ha Be FH ya sit ale at 
arTrat | 


a ee ee ee ee 
Tea Ale BATRA ASAT TT: 1 BI 
crtter site enttet St % sre wert aor ge ohare Rates Ga ae 
Rl Ga Fat & AIK 
PAHVSAST GN WaT BN HiarH st AT 
By Wered qd aatratedt vert faqer 1 3q 1 
ak aaqvsa adi & at fae tant (aed @ cater ten ate: 
a cafere) a At wre Sh oF Hat WL AOSe HI Fa GH CPT, 
fe ae Fora FA TH | 
seafe: ura Ualerad WAgdag witet ate: 
wa safle reared qa ate wT B9 | 
PLAS H yal W ga Hl Me wie H ser TAH, forws FAH 
POTS qa Be H at aH PA as | 
Mae ae: warfa warfe aa aay 
fafa art wired ga, ao qd FT 1 3c | 
alg We Tei We, Tas SR A AA EU eqs HI WN | ae 
aS nose fal & SN A aM a ae THAT Ga Bf VAM | 
Te oe Prati are wererat gear 
AQAA ST TRASAALTT ASAT: | 38 1 
SA Tet H flat Haw HT AMAT starsa B 1 std: WS IB UW ST 
ae feara wen feat 7a 2 1 Taal osat Us efe @ Ue a tie mW 
F wea Sean 27 Car ael ert, aver S arr a fag see evi 1) 


penfas Trent abr BYu 


arty fea: aia: wit: erage: aie aera: 
— fafisr aatats tye afer yes Sa: t vo | 
Trea fafast & ara fesnstt ¥ set det wre eax Ara A was 
a fates aa was a dH ST | fafa H Ha atest Stent UH HIS 
at feafrst az ata aei aa car free met at Sad siren aT 
area | 
fe arg ara age wet art frera aq wr, 
fafrstafora sé qftafe ger gideay i vet 
AVA We CHAT GAIA BA a TaHl wes BH dhat sa ve Ta 
fad fafet an frac aren arr ve -F TST ae Bat wT avez 
CSM | SIA HVA OL Tey al EAT aw Pier Feerfa BY Seas ae fafast 
FSR H aways H Fat a aaa 81 Tt fH ora wars VT 1 
frard freert:-agart Tie wa Geet ate afore rey 
wire weet aearee Pert ag wre et wR 
(frara Rerrafer arpa) ante at qa afe @ are ate at 
we jet & ee Paves pitt ast TaN | ale F sma am A ay 
afore & arte sie Griter sr eer ote ora He eearfter HOTT ENT | 
UR SA WI HT aly - 


aol Wet ae ws ST Wet Stet Ai raTashy 
waters eat Sift alast  ¥3 1. 
whe, Wie sy te sik sare Wet @ facet aa ae fowat 
The we wea ot feat at Gear @ 1 wai 


ged faqearre wit vara at Eeraies 
YAMA: Yxat Wet: wr: YTHewyay i xx | 
wane F Cay BS Hr ws wie (sx WH ste) FS ae Ta 
TER Wea % Ga ee a aaa 81 aft ahaa cafes set 
POT BH SR ET Welt ar sreH AST AT Bet at aa BHAT 
Raters Tear Waleonsa TART, 
ost (eat G1kH Gar ae a date ST 
am 4 aga aa & at A Hem ¥ faaat tar a eh uel a 


Wan, fra, 2A, awd, STAT STS eat UK TEAM ET TAA ATT 
& tan wt wan ® 1 


BE faera cdc 


Heaearel wa aH a walhad sare Aeteq area 
afe: ferraragy wre wretarqrafe aah Seq 1 we I 
GH BY Oa Hl HSH a ST aH aA | a Wet meat Tas 
arex cfamt atk sae Hae Sat we oma a a At Ge aa 
afer fean 4% cera STAM | Ge & HA Att oH Hier Tat Tal Slat 
al a aat Bx A OM aC WaT BT 


Bigt (So) & [eta uftaraa cf WeaTseaaiAT | ve 
St ars } seit H Se aw A (erHST SB BS) TITAN tke wet 
a ser am FH ua Ata (HIS at Gea aX Gel fray 3e0 sie Freeh) - 
errant Ta | AH sie stat H ata go siyer St Ge eri 1 wre F 
We Be wa SAL By ere Bx Ta 


Atrereqhs Sel Werslawsd Mid Ha Waar: 

carter Ceara: eT Sewer: atHeatla: 1 we 
wl St ie (af aed) at PA & fae 3 era 3 afae eg are 
_ BESIST HT A afta H alae Gar HI TSA | A ST aT BH aa (2 
wre at ga a) geal site me eT STE EA 


area Raangy TT (3g) Paes cher stanfregrergat 
ATMS ALAR Feat Tat faeercattaa FAT 1 vg 
afar aor (ite) Bag sige ax (Ata SN ae) Se fen FH qa 
fra Ean sa (Sax fem H sta HT SoS) TAN | Ta set H Be 
areer at geal erm Bi | geal a are ae TK He EH | 


usyeratge Ufe Aer HATS Wa WaT Yaa a 
aren Paw Aq: Wels Hate > qa Uf sary VT 1 uo 1 
geal & aa aH ax Set fefwa eri, Ta AG & sitet eT 
AA ST SNe sityet at ge TEM Fafaa ert | ax Han A wha, whe, 
urd ait = an tera fated awe cfr aa S ears SRY BG aret 
STR TAH | 


See eee ee 
waaay Sherr TET SAT STATA | GR 
fiat aw 4 32 Ufe at fae fem ae 1 se we HF ew ae 
See SR Bel ee RT eee oe, Ste at er 
Sh 


Treat ferenty miverrfe ana axis 


“ant fren oe ww fe weer waket Ae shar 
Wan frst yar aay YE: WaT aw Tat | yy | 
sae ae Sa we Fee at Tay an & fau ve ws afe 
(SUS) VaR Stal MT | Be Ale vac ert) sk sae om am A 
a eee on ee eee 
SAT ST AS | 


ae WaT TAY SleoH Teahasg West | ; 

areat tfereggy fefer epee: 94: yfwom fare: YT 1 43 1 

wa Te we afs & OR RM UH Waa wa He REM OE TT 
ST AM SA ovo shot (ky Heil) TK Sa Hl aH |pe wat 
ana Sra | ae yeat @ ast, faewat ste wot vier STM | 

farrerad, wit sartared fereet & gresfafefta 1 ux 

WE AH AE A Ro SiCH (2 Y¥ SIA ) TH STAM HIS THT RI ST 

feat wenn | were az a orang 3 wre ert | 


WTI Mh Teles Ta weg fy wafes, Gar 
ary ala waaey qeq Galtae We aH Hak: 1 44 1 
STI aH & ax a Frect cfamr fen F facet ate & ara 4 
Ga Aa Sas ARE SL Tet Bl Ha HI Aa TTT ALENT | 


arate sere: ETM Weareraarerard Be: 
aatetaar: wea Ta TERA Afadt Werfet: 1 4K | 
ae wit ve Hen se, aH, wa gente sro fated fear wenn | 
sasy ue, sist or fae dt em | eae lax (gas WD ATa suf 4 
Te em | vee. gesrqan wel Hl ae a tat Hat Aw (HTS Hl 
aera Wet) BY Yara Vt GHA ze | 


Heads UACT BAT HAT Tet (22) 
Een eafafrercrysr | 
Tae fraeaTeyT (84) HST ATA 
(9%) Ae HHA 1 Yo I 
nea gd FS art we vest Hen ga st eft format afta ve 
sige et ert | geet wa YH a ay sige at cer Aree aT ATA 
at 92 shyt BY ert 


aXe ‘ fas Wat aquy 


TR Tapafaqa (Qve) Fea Barhsy 
At (¥¥R) HA Bh FA: 1 
fancseren efa Be Har: Yates 
Brey WAY Bsa: 1 4s | 
aeafa wer at afte ave sige aan aft Har at aftfa wee sitter 
ert 1 gt Hast wr aay Brel @ Sisar TAN | SAH Ta A 
farsa & | 
area chanfegel aq farosares wat Ha: 
are Thea Wat WAV SA Hea ASAT AAT WET: 1 QI 
afar at aon fe fet tei Hwa A st faqosa rer wT &, 
ae er 4 8 et aha 4 yd ofan fee A tem | afer sear 
Hae ate safe oat ehh 


dtaisa dharaa yifre: gals =reraqara fire: 
Wee PHAN YE Ure He HATTATCTEAL HOSA: | Go | 
 efert saa FB ate set ae ser ora F Srey Uhh | sex staat 
 afary say & ate at edt & arora & Saat crag rarer ert | 
ae Ae A Ha H ara sx fr Hs ST | 
RTs BAT MOTT APs FrMTaHala: TAN, 
arent ferarhs (9/3e) Prayer 
qereag fatrersrey | &e | 
wed Saray gay fere sat B aH A Arex B (0/3) siya K 
Uh Wart Be By 1 
aaa wed wearers Wrenraara fatarearery, 
UPASATASeHA Aet A WaRAT We Aware: 1 eI 
ae Be SRT ahd ara Hh orfe H ete ast wer <feroras 
aati art wat anfe H ast Sle EMT | ea Be A ve aw ate wR 
eT SF | 
Went arena wa ta watra Berar 
wrt ufieate wetereretearan od Hrers aTaarel 1&3 1 
sad aH & aret te a UE aie aI SH ToaTHER Be FH od feen 
A Qa ara | We wl Te ster Hert arfe FH awier ae He faery BAH, 


Trreafirare wren aoa . ve 


amt qe wee Uaditee ware tet wat wravsareg: feraier (2x) 
Baa (NWZ0) BMT a WaT wenageara, Wea 1 ex 1 
ford aie & am am 4 fers gate ga 4 am yet ater are 
art Fate A | areat HH & onesy A cf Tas (31RIB0) BTA 
SK AM BRA Fat & anes FY grat at afar Sree 
WTP AS ee Has cay cara aT: 
wreardird feat at gat wares Geter aFe: tay I 
acaran de vat wer afte a ae ater erm 1 staat afar 
ae % ait ara we sree Te aH ale RT PN on aa F | 
waa wh Wad A tet werd Reais Hea 
SAT Wet HA WHATARTS rea agate WaTET | eR I 
ai = S anearer & aaa ae 8 one wre a ue rata Fz 
(state Sra HI A< Spe we rare ay) Tet waa & aya yay 
afe &@ qf a carer Fa | 
qae. aay fafratereret era: ape: ae ety farat 
adtate Ga wt aT TART Tae THT FTA 1 Ke | 
yea & oe at dle FH Sar ee WE HT SPS UM SM (AS BHT) 
aufe ga trea 4 cham 1 we ar we ste fare oft nfora & aq 
ram | Fae are wa Bh Sree stent YA: ga UH a FATA | 
VATA YP BAM, Brat THAT MAT (wy ) THT 
wraistia ara aise aartare wae fe TALI ee | 
awa ata afar cafe aa & aR ALG Vy BIG HT UH HATTA 
at Tae otfvatt onfe ww aaa fafad Ht 1 Tae we AH stad 
aT OR (Page B22” 20°, BRT Ga arg w ser A) confers wh 
Fa 4 wen A oe at aw ste uel mfr wh ten sie fear sn wa 
a 
frarha: at ae GI GUT (NNER wear: 1 
BEA UTA, Uae atest Wer TH FOUNT 1 ee | 
aun tf & we ae ae fern 4 gest @ oe ate afer a ace. 
(vx) siya dt a a ara weaita ath | sat ara qaitfs a 
Spe & ara sie (urs: & ster) slat BIN 


Qho Pegrrt equy 4 


neardararet Tete arg free itt fraafrsrary i wo | 
weal & ofa der ge ot waar Fer a ot Ue sie & § UP 
A OR He HY Se Saar AH eerftrar BLA | 


ae gfe Mae ward gra eer aT et ETT 

area PrerdPacar Wareg (xc) Tedqerafererary toe 

trea ak yeat @ ert ardt Var wr yet fee & fax aw (ge 
era TH) asa | ae Lar fora ster onfe Hr easel wr, wei fare Sar 
saa ¥e SPT HT Hat FH - 

Te ara ye wa gfe fife ward vit patsaiq, 

yaittatan ga qtr qa yatert der weter Ge aT 1 wz | 

wera eft amr TaN | ear at Wht UH sitet wT (stats 9/ 20) AAT 
TTe HT Ua shyt (2-4/2) fa et 1 qt a yates fae (geal sta 
vat a ye era at fee A) ae wt ten S gest dna Van Sa Sy 
aH Sit | 


Baraat ATTRA ATT 
wfatetetter Temtic wel tet Pra TTATATHT | 9 | 
gett @ Saal we ane at aw Nfs Aen | et wat aT Tet aT 
aft aa sik aw ufs teat ST aed Bt VR HT VET sit nia onfe 
faqa qa aude at ef & tart erm | 
feat Saracrg Sat CICA FT Aas TATA, “ 
wer ater aferr Be ae ye ae He eh ww I 
[ype atk inet wan & ota Fax Han ge we wet ehh fra 
at az adh. we aesa a ge Ufa anfe & yd stk ais a aa 
waa Fed Ararat wet ert | 
XS agwy aeatrared aa Feast VAT 1 
yaa, yaa, ya attr qa Sear whet frerfeata 1 ot 1 
ae A ag Ha aa oT ols Eo | TAA stearea & exa Se ANT 
wet at fait aia et ot aeadl & 1 ae stem stem Sik GT at 
aera a tat a1 aed & | 


areaer TY BASH ae opera afer Yow feats we | 


Teaser tenfe ai | a BUR 


we ma sie aeaat - ct wae & tte sat a avi gan. 1 set 
(a feat sq ae) et orn wa (orn at fee sik eras) aI aa 
Waa a A are Hl VM start B et aHar 8 i aerfa seas cit HI 
waa wa & foe ares & aR A Hem Ss 


Ht FEAT TMT Aly La we a weHlieay A 
ara: Wath: fraafetia gh: erare Herahaasae: wo 
ae wa 8 (At Hosa HT gE Hosa 4H) ale wa H, gard 
a aa a, Vie 8, Ga aque a, wat aa a, are are afta 
weraeaa O, art a, ut a, Te a, a ga a Gt aaa aT 
ree BC TH Te als WRG eT ITT OH we 
et 


Heard Fa WT ane SeaTqeTHY THAT 
om, fea versal rare teed ah aq adgaar i ws 1 
feel & Het & Frat sue am & Va UH Ware aa aT | 
Tae wT H SRST RE Fe at wa Tay se wa aT ye ofr 
aife fee a aed at fae 221 weal SR sa Saw AM I 
SAH GAS AMA | 
ser ga afar faferereredise ath eck Prateea 
Sal ATHA AT YET MATH LAAT HASTA 1 et 
sae set (at AI FH yata stk arsine ga ATA 1 <fan 
SR Hee S ATS Bate se A Ta Ya tar Hoy te FH fae 
BR | ae ge ate a wt era ten sarerd S Ga ARK A UE Te 
Gr | 


fafaeard, Tamiirygeds: at: tafierd frattiaary | 
fraTa We SATA Sa WaT Aisa Arey aret featfea: 1 co t 
ae gd sa waa & fag aera ga em 1 Fa seRM qa 


PASI Se MINS Steg tM ORY: ie NET SN RN A 
sea Fa eT | Taser A 


WATS AST Te wet aes Ye Tareas Sshaarg 
roars Udtrat feargyat Preafe qay qfaar i cet 
art wet airfe & fafed ath | sa HR Vig BTM HH feafa a aay 


oe ee 
Wl MA a AHA Bi 


BER . fart aduy 


wate Prraaet Sa Sat 
Weera Ufearel Tat wa aa: 
Uneatagite asa waar 
ar aottearfe Care aasfamAaA 1 22 
Front sreprer F We aa Asal Hr srax TPS, sig, Hem, suf 
Frarent *® feu ara aaa & fas 3 Hem ¢ 1 ea aa @ ada sik 
ga safe er ar at a aT Gea z | 


we WNP FaATSs ae (3e0) 
Tet offi Facat wetafacar 
eqerghre car ufget year 
uftfa caermmeta: x fraft qa: 1 231 
wade fa at me waa cua fast ara F 1 sit Tay a0 
STA HT Was FA SAH TAH VeTH sist (Uff wz ¢ sige HI adh) 
wm ua fae 2a S| Ste eet ga RIN UH HS Vel HI aT HAT 
€, ot ga dw as 1 wre vet 4 oft B= stk sisit wt fafad ar ax 
@ uftfr } ago sie fuel ae UH Us Var Gia Fo yf qu at 
at ago am Ff aiza z | 


. facafag afe ea ufgarctcrargt 
\ Rat Wa eA WATT BEAT, 
Sag FACET Fey arisfrevsy 
SAT AA AA ads Ss WAMIT | cv | 
Udt & ufa ster ar faa ae wen anfe ot fen on aaa z | 
aU & Sz 8 uw eg oie Sieh wet rma &, fora va sa ga 
F CASTE & arae ET | . 
Wea Ye Wear ufsar Ufe {eT 
faferera aferat ar arfseat Sffar car 
Watts caiare eH Tet WHT AT 
HaWM Aaa at west Paftfareq: 1 cyt 
FA UE ST GALANT ¥,4, 30,24 aT Sei Ht a BHAT eI 
war cere wfarera evs 
frat fraz am ufgert: waar 
we wa ate Frere wer mie Ta 
feat wapacafeasrar (3x32) aAfsaeq 1 cet 


sceshle MTA qT BGR 


us & wit at A wel a Teta at oe A caer afe sik aT 

al We at Sta FH SaaS 1 Vel H HT Hs san eT s, sag a 
art 2a & dar fsa @ a wa 

frafrafer aver sift arfserey 

FIR Fa We Ya MM Set WATT 

WHA TAH WHE VT CA ST PATA 

waft wera Wet ATTN FegUTe: 1 cio I . 
maa Te fer & eA Ga & oaarSy FAM AA W aE SAM 
at aret ent 1 oda a sam sik vig gar & dha at edt a sige 
SO os Ee An one A een eee aac 
ot set van fret a1 aad 1 


ea Ufa at denned arit 
MT Tae: wWaEgret frase 
MW AMET (Roo) THM SST BEAT ATAT: | 
TH TAT TA TAA WTA: SAM | ce 1 
wa asf eet ara Fe at ft Qantas SAH SAT AT 
Adie PHT A PHA B | TAH SSA HY ( Roo) Wea A PT RA 
R vig 8 aT Aa a amt ak Ae BH x ar H Sta wt ea ArT | 
(aren a fe al od att TaST SB As Ht ofa B Sars Bra EPA 1) 
Ae YN Yared AAT TeT- 
aft safiqugeanra: afta: 
AMS Wises Ufsara: weet 
aefifattia cvs tetas wenrz 1 cet 
Sy xin ara ada otk gat onfe at Sard frevert af fate % xia 
Ga cad Aoat HT aa S ea aI Aa FE ga aa HT Svs at 
wa 21 Fea oda onfe & free feera vig wt ora ATA) 
ate qfa fre sig Y adeadie: 
wet fatreat cere wrt 
pierre aT Saar AT aT 
qafa wa ame wed frdH, WATT | go | 
Ta WH St tart & vig SI Tal BIT Bl VAT vig A AIT He 
2a ae vig Va BAM A ora ana | vas ae at fafa’ 
Weel wet aT Pat S| ga fate 4 yest aaa am farst et aa ot ada 
wl Saat atk Tam fren ste | 


Buy - ferara ater G 
BER afVary eramat J avs 
Wt (4) aif tel arduard, Perarany 
faratatra arez writer weirs 
ae tft ot Megha: TaTTaAT 1 gk I ‘ ] 
afe gat att uda anfe ar sifs eae often orasr et Ht ate a 
& Be aT aX BH 1 TA cos & sham al wre 4 ada st Ae at | 
tah | cae ae othe stk ada & ata uw sik vig WAN freer sty } 
eat Set a EY Ph ft GY et en AION SL q 
Wea BU | : 


Tata feax AM SAT SA ATHTA: 1 82 I 4 
ga easy at fafa & (arsine ga ¥) vets an at VAH | Tet ues | 
& ud of seen at satasa fare | sa saa war aT Gator | 
SATE B TON HL 2 A aT Aa A Ha ae ante al Sa ert eT | 
wT (AAT) Se axa sean Haq zac Ht Sat yah a sae B PT 
el 2S aT 2a a ude wt at a ert | 
 aaqd dee ae ae aes ate ait aa 
apo et ca Hreraed areat frataat wer awa 1 831 


Sl 
Wt: arg & ane at afe aa ar gta (agate) aa Het ara eS 
aa aa & eq oe Ue HT VA, VT TI Gard aa @ Bea HT STMT, | 
Ww, afe wa a (qa oa ®) fea wt Ose aT Ugaier (feared) | 
PraTe ST THA FI 
are Ud One Wet Wa Ay Ae 
a faera wet Gitta: atau wa & eT ey | 
am ara & a ara & adat & dra 4 ws ster Be arm 1 faa 
SR FA a Wa Aa & ada A OT as | 


areas Gay sara caer Afeafr Te, GEM: 

stad ere Teste jatar aa fanart fags: 1 ey 
WRT UT aR eet OK Tea AA & a FH Ge Peea  fstaT wT 
Wie FSA Teel TY W Sa H Gat aa a sas at aaa A ea 


Theater Menfe aor Buu, 


wa 4 ae ara | Pas Set &B aaa arg ar at oaaen fear sw waa 
@ 1 ee wa & agar fea aaa ta aaa FI 
AK At arr: |e Rrfewat afer: | 
Wea TaH ee: Uferer TPA Ura feere: 
Tarfes ted fray aoaries 
frat wor afeed wiped freer aa 1 3g | 
sted foredt srr Gract A al art afd waTat Saw We F aeft 
Ta Se fae wee Sle ST a Ta | ue UT a OR ad 9 
WaT UW URE wt AE swe (Surface tension) F HLT say Ge Fe 
Wea Wa saat orae att | Be Ht crag Bik Hers Fa va feez 
ait frre 2 aus (UH Fed) A uw ge (a ae fer fae aH) ot 
Ta | 
Teratate wed Tae 
fexarearta waa Tet BATT 
Sverre cechhta wad az 
Wear vata aes HaTeATIAT | Bo | 
até Were ae or war ada Fare aR, forerar gar ater faraet 
Sl (faraa ae feet Te WH) | TSH TH A US Brel Be HI Tas WAT 
Sw waa Hoa H dit AR oe et aie 1 Se at aren ten 
ern free wa set F WW Ua ae TT | Ta HOST aA HEE 
Teed Ted, wears Cran 
wa Tea T Aa Met fated qa 1 gc | 
Wert 7 wow aa & a A fae S Her & aa: FH TA He 
ta SI 
wa wad ae Preheat ah 
wed Taras gear Af 
frafs afe afearers thanred 
Yarat fag (4) Pt qa wer fae: 1 ee 1 
waaqae Ta & feu to aye Uta a UH aw SATAN | saat 
Une at ufa siyer ux wa Um Vat 7 1 APA St Go Tare fea-aa aT 
Soa e Cee Serre se 


weer AEA efererear- ° 
era aT fart aay 


B48 farara ade 


ae aaa Ay fatraserahi 
WH TOT ATT fat ABATE 1 goo | | 
aa & ez A up Se wi sae dar us tha sik faa sia 
(Faaat ach) conan, frva ae att oral @ ya as | Taz fer. 
fern 4 3 ea Sar a Ger Ms HC Ta UH I RH ae aH MAA | 
ae HAT VA eT ated vet W ae sre a ae LT | 


aranfe tatia yates Free 1 tok | 
oat sik ofa fafirr 4 ge otk wate tax ae fer oa FAT 
fora vier ferfast ATS aren safe ang at ait ua etet acit eerfta 
UY 
eae wits arerHlever 
at ae wate ote ufe firey 
‘fered fatt: qa serves frara qa: 1 402 | 
we wet go shyt oat rit 1 <a ach sr UT StH Go cos H 
fap wert amet fract ya fae sas fraca am 8 ws sler fox 
wen Wfer & AS wa ora TaN et a sree FrerereT Eat ITY ST 
W AAT St ST 
waren fetter Shea qersta 
Tear Tear: HAT 
qated uf arites Ahi 
Hrarereaitatad ta SAT I yxr 
sae ae aH Gat fem 4 fafas Hus set Her a Ga ait 
ae Sea US a Aha a cde aT aR a ae TAA | GU APH art 
(ate a) Ta Ge Ht AS Tear we Tay cat wl GS Tea 
Tam Wisse ye ate Wrest 
WS THT THATS ITAL 
aa faitag a Tarhae- 
aa wreaTAHeSs TH PTA govt - 
a & fear oe (HF anf) 271 aah a ot H sted a ae 


Marfan Tents ach BH 
at at aa et stents A Uw a ATT 


uM ser sag atae yore: 1 You | 
wat yaar & aaa we fafar 4 cher few & free set aw a 
fard efavirar fee ¥ um pret WH | qatar S ones at aw yt 
fern Feat a aa Ath) a at faa aret 8 orm & saa ore 
wl Haag (Tel, vet snfe) Bat aT Gea & 1 sa fea A va aa 
al set wear carfaa BET 3 
warddsatrraranea wets 
aed waTHTT By Set: 
at vate wie farsa 
WOT TATTATE WEY AIT 1 YK 
Boag aah pacer; Maareia a ee 
wet & aed a asta wt ance Far St ses AE et ani 1 ag 
Tata fafa fak ses ora ar at feartt ares | 


aa Wafer wet wise cata ae aca AAT ATTT 
‘Wt i Ya aw frarant yqa are at aaah fears gow | 
Wea HS TA Met Aa HT WAT st sa tadag aa VAM BIT | 
Fas a F sq aa Hem Ears Aare S Ya (aH) Bose & fax 
Udett Test HT AI GA AAA | 


farada frac faa as arage frat qa afrert 
afurara qe areal were ufarribrerarae: | oc 1 
Oo aw & chit Tt (are & Guran Sel) A seat we Ie SH 
wT S Tay ga ae wt eT) GA: Tet 3 ufanr 8 a wet ate 
at ate Ae St sett eenfes BUA 
See ee Oe ena er er 
ofa ae share afer aire al wait Aerts ys Freer 1 208 1 
Tet @ at gat aearat att vat oe Sh) peat ara dies & 


a a a a 
yah oa at ae ET I 


a 


Be fara ado 


aa faart- we tae afte rear wet @ wat: 
Tecrerarfe weyorcraraz: 1 Zft 1 xo | - 
De AAT Aen Aer wr wa BA A cafes ott ene aM wa 
are We crew H ara eI 


ge pone a ae ees 
Uread aa weer rat fit waret qe: 
aaa ate aaet asta eu Tfaar arfear 
eres: AHTATR APrHat Ararhrsrzsea: 1 Trt Veg 
Tear feoa atk anfifaa 8 1 ae Wea HEN A Her a Taw ae 
afers anfe ssfeat & wa. 8 geal Wt gaat faea Bet | TA WHR 
ufaa aa an fea, eae, fa an sfas fer aa 4 te Ga ATT 
cafes ar vet Sat aTfEy | 
sofa Girt ar ae snes set AAA S ary Tea Gea HT ATT Sta 
Cel 
eta ate trgwat ay weltaat aaret 
TTS URAL UT: AT: 
get deg Asae werel Aer AS 1 kez I 
freer ververe er FH, He at We HAI S YR: ST Tet ele, 
fares or AL SS afaa tt ars St Sra S, TS ASTM HT AT Tear AT 
gfe Fw a srr s 
WYMAN TAT TMA Fa Wt 
ot waareat Hat aforastr Fre 
frera edo sorfet aver are 
fasismrerfed aaa: WHS: 1 223 I 
ea want Setar & fread waipa A sar ofthese Ba SMT TT 
aik efe F aaraen ae areret + ferent & fer fara ctor aT aa 
auy Ward Yo al VHT AAA Bail | 


RPO 


we feet: Were: 
area we weer ay 
weqhe sefredt arenes, wert 1 2 


We ak Wie wr ait ga ay & ae WARN BT A area (afr 
fafeat a tera a aH) ATT TT TET BI 


waa fart Gay tAIQeSsaTaTd: 
Tae fafat qaieasend carat: 1 3 7 
Fre ee (fase qa wn) & fates oa at ara cert we SVS 
El ST S| AGA Sa ears & fafas ga A et Galea star 3B 1 aay 
eat & fiafrst att zea & flafast (st aay wat HI TVET &) 
ara 


Wa Garyqaat qaear-aey, 
Qa weSse sera fatrargats Ferd 1 3 
ait ga wr aes tae 1 ae at wart & gated! H aa 
HI SARK e 1 Gt sera ga A sey falas & Haz A 
fet corea: aed vat safe arftt 
THN, Wea aad fret ord 2 1x 
fea Sr & 1 ae AA eA Ue Ta Set BF 1 PRage ef aaa AST 
sera qa 8 1 waar ast Veit an fairs a wast anit 4 aiam 2 1 
aa: a frat qa 8 ea a fea sik Ta RK IA RH aA Ba BI 
fata Ter HF fea Wa...get TAM Bz 
freee: yt wher the wea: 
Tea: Uae ATT ae Fats: 1 
faqa tal & TeN-WF WA KIM F wat FH fagqa aa a aa 
qaites aa Wd qaiea dro 8 1 cfacihhea FH gem faut das 
fafrsteater: feercat fagaet a tera: 
abe aefet ubrerqaha gq aaa: 1&1 
weet pro e fe sae tie A sHvsa ary fafrs 8 Sar wem 
8, Tose aH Weay (fad gales ) @ ved et ws soy feafast w 
OW Ta @ | Si sey tart wT Gaiea eta Ui char sitar A ssa 
sr farfasr & Ary ern 2» 


3&0 fast acy 


araue afe (ggt30) MTA SY aq Taree: 
Tay waferareda fasreisaz Tet 1 0 I 
foreraet Fat ST Sta Ge 2 sist @ sfc Bo aei fase se 
att & 1 frase a A sei Het TT rer 2 | 
aren writ ateratat were 
area writ Star aad aad Frente i 2s 
ya wt tert saa frat fet aa cect @ 1 aa ae sei fea ear 
& aM wa ca afar wria ert & aa aes UH (sata & are aw fea 
war srt Ura) 
caren fatrwe fayae wert aa: 
wer rer gat aet werarda feat qa: 1 ¢ 1 
faqa qu ta ste arqat ar fisfrst & 1 ara: SR ge Serer Sr 
Ae SRA STA aT Tl Taher 8 
sed wart ferfrargen, cfr tire a: 
wont qittert tat Sar KAT WITT! go | 
et sat er FH TSA WW eam AM Fa fart fafrst KR EPA BA 
aaa € 1 oe cfan aha OF we arg Ta sad fafa we Ya BT 
aaa eI 
THTSAT Meer at fefaver feaq 
wh waa teat aad weer tery i ee 
wa FA ST Ste aT (ATA AEG Urat Ten ante aH) faye 
Re 1 amt ad & ent am A we Ys sacar erat %, Fast 
ar fea ak stat at ua ert 8 1 ga cfarcht aie A eA Ww FaeT 
SHAT VIM EI 
woot fea afat aha area ay sfe 
Rafe aS weaye sh ATTA: 1 tz I 
art: aafeat F wet trae yt & sae ay cfr saa F SA a Git 
a fer ar ua er @ 1 fears & wre a fafirs @ AS at feen A 
a ama & 1 ae aa ard FH ara ar saat @%, wm fea w fen A 
wre & 1 
Pravecerat afat darter atest 
RMT: HS CAAT CANS TUTAAT | 23 1 


STaaT Se teeq aA . BER 
3a VER se Ufa @ A fear wr ones SB Sa B 1 ott: TeUATT 
aR SA we sami & fea HI ses aM sal & 1 sk sa ay 
amet & fearey Her BATT HEY KH SAT TT WAST ela SF 
went BrP: weeeT were ea 
fearaseire Set reahe: Yeafsery ws 
qfy & wa Sea SX LEN H SRT ae Vera SA aS Tar tia wy 
aaa & 1 ote aaa fea tem 2 1 vara SA we GA sre (I AW) SM 
= aa aan Ht Us Act BF ste we Was aaa es Var Yau A Herz 1 
TIS Tee: SYA Wit aWead: 
sian wears Aa TeATHY AATATT 1 ku I 
ara ar (Ra, ca stk aaqwat wr) fea-ca uw et at a a? | 
a ee ee (eit fe fasor 
af yeaa & ae a ara 2 ) 
fet earesit arartar ofa tests 
fargort det ararerft ye frarfeary t 2g | 
gad a asia em @ fea am sesia (fou ay) a ute eet & | 
ata: ee ee ee 
-ua Brat 2 | 
yeep yPiare Frenfery 
fadsfad wa cot are Ura fea: HATT 1 vo | 
sara & ftett ar fearg aan wor Asa cit a fren err 
ca I va at crest & aa cit st ren me yer oe wt atest 
(are A) sre Gales sat z | 
wares Wea cia fatast aa 
ATTRA ATTEN TATA: WL HT 1 VS I 
yd fafa % aha ge at ot ste ane @ aet Ta wes wT (sa 
at Hl) aM 2 1 Urs fafa A aa aa a a am cna & ae 
(Te Ba HI std az | 
faufraga weredt veer eaida at 
Waa RET cA SATA Fawys eefAarT 1 ve 1 
ad sit ofr fates & ara 4 fra ik wax wt feen Heaths ga 
I SH sist erren & Ta Hae: wast stk eer aM Hea St Saas WA 
fravatfuar @ erat & | 


3E2 fasrar ety 


frffiscgrer weyiserricat 
WA HAT HA FEAT WAAA AL! Yo t 
 @iRa ga ar facet tary sect seq sik area ei 2 fag ara 
SMT (RAT SY HRM) Sea SA TET SH A safes Wea Tera BI 
wae FEM Feat os UHies: Yrs, - 
sata fafraret fred wearers: (30) 1 2 I 
at: wika Fa at at UPsat a sea aa aA et BF 1 PRa 
Ber Heo ster wy Bet FH aM eo sig 30 UAT A vag BMT?! 
arate fafast grat way Tas Yet: 
wary a Peres sera eTeHAT 1 AI 
wei St er va F steven et At HEI Tas Ta steal aE WAS? 
@ fore ye at arte fee art Aerie at fafas qa @ camant atta 
at yarent fear 
. arate: Waa: Tats (give) da wate 
FAT AHA HH AY Tees 1 2 1 
wet aaizt ve? @ ael gy ott tax oe et chat F 1 
fra ste wh aer sea wee FI 
UTafers (9cigo) Tar aa ta TT ATE - 
qivara Aged Se, qed Watery wi 
fara Set HT AAI we” 30° BV agi afaw snfe are Uf Tat 
ages tet & (fers G AS) | ga sate ar Ui TET shea wea F 
Uttar ea) 
ae ee ce oo 
wer statis go” F (GAS W) Ae Fen sufe & Ute Ae cha F 
ay sfx « uf Gar sfea wa FI 
ua ea qat arise YlsaaawArd 
CAM FE GA: T] Werasaaepar: 1 I 
Fa War ta eT | Sal Tes) Te sraz aT (afer Tres) 
% sans % ara et Ufe st a ae aet 8) Fa aT FH St Ue gear 
stea tedt @ 1 ae afarh (stax) aT & seh ateatier FH wer qe et 
ei 


ara S18 teeq aatig BER 


Tero aaa we wel eaters ate 
aera ware Sanfae: ae Frogs 1 yw 1 
afe wet at ar ata ears art sara ah Saas Her Ma He sepa 
want at fae wen erm (Hen wha Hy BIA a sel Han eri 1) 
tar ate + oa Gem: Be atest fe aq, 
waa eafea Yate Fara: HA AAT: 1 Re 
Ber aay yx dt vet at vis afefa ca fore et Src 2 
ara: Fa aa @ fe ga 8 qe Ys onfe Haw: A HET Aha aa 
et a ar nfs a Hast: aa ert art B 
ea gages: ter wert fart arorh: 
PREASTS AAG AAT TEAL | XI 
wea fears 4 ot at an fers, ex sik vie Gat a eH afer 
€rt fora & aa: fas Sten 8, fe a ot wel wr ae haa Hen eitare 
ara & 1 we we wy a wer Te Se AA fork cae ww a oe fe? | 
qa: ufta eat Weanraia, qarea: 
Fears urat fet arae aia FAFA 1 Ro 1 
get & art ae ai sik ae wT Hea S aM qu snfe a Ve 
ner at a afcean aa € | aeas tfa ure fer 4 erat three aha 
wad feen Ff etd 2 | 
ramfaaitta: Yat wat HAUTE { AT 
warattat fret ox artrer ar aa: 1 az 
wel At Tet wt carters nfs & | St for Arar & streedor  aHreoy 
at @ 1 geat & oe a a free eS sae serie nha fa fs 
Bret & | 
arraré treet wrote: 
Seance BA WAT AAA TAT! BVI 
ararat & sar we ak ge aoa faa fa SA are FS 
Thre pea e fe Hea anfe Brat at Wray st Sta aet z 1 
aq wravend qeng fearantea weit: 
Tew pienda were fraearar: 1 331 . 
farg ae wires fase atk macs 2 ( sii ae Na at sree) 


BEY fast |tiuy 


Fry ae fr re we wow ae eT Fe 
 stqanr- 
MAAS TET BTA WH MA eed: (ead 
waTaashy ateroeretl HA ws, Hl AST 1 Fv | 
sda & evoo oF ata aT wt adam Fem of sk wR FH 
wen Fe tt Tet cha Sata: wre strat ar ered SIT A eT 
SI WHat FI 


ferrcara we aTet arattes vfs off: 
qeerate wareierd wage: wets ATL 84 | 
tfa wcteg wT ferent (Sea Ha fa SA ST) aa a AeA 
nifa ary ora sife Sara 4-g at F A STAT ST AHA eI , 
TK TT WA Hest were TTT: 
a werd afraty faa foara esfara: 36 1 
fey as wee Is Set & SR sae se at as a aes 
ws Ufa am fat fers & vet Sr oT ara BI 
wraat aq fasrsisty ae sero afsife: 
Hearst WIS Wareeyrad BIT 30 1 
ae a TH HT Se HT w Ut Tae Ths Ae SAT ST TAT z | 
‘ifs at fa stead HA ST Bh HOT goo at & ae Tat AeT sik 
ate fa ¥ ora vel feat a aa Z| 


Tensdrs ToT at ara feats = 
dard wa: Waffettts fret ary FAT 1 3c 1 
za oreo @ wa atk wR at amr, ad, are aie fer anfe at 
TWA He A SE sad Ael, sfaa @ 1 sa: fears aaa ot wer 
2 


aware urea sthoreh farwaret actert 
aerd Wet Gea aT Weaarea: 1 3h 1 
ae} ve ak wa at a am ane onfe & ar A St sa 
ceant & ae an ante & ary cham 8 1 a eT ane wet TT 
a fara FY WT Hea wT a et Bl aad z | 
afrary areereraré: wae amd: 
Tern aterad Wear Hey yAHeTAT | ¥o | 


aTaat BE teea ayia BEK 


afaar areartrart qn ae aera HF gfe SA & arr Hea FH 
wot sravs ANT HY HOUT BHT | 
qe arrest a ITAA Hou aaa: | 
PIAS WASH at Wears AAT wR I 
SR gfe are at wr a eT sey S St OPT STEN FT 
HOT STAY SAH Ud S cml Hi sesUfs Aet, Hea Yales S BT | 
Bae dea aera xara: 
ieee, aaa Arearfsararad: 1 vz 1 
afar & wes 8 are way ae & seth St HAT HTT 
Tae We sera SF VA & are saa cla sit ax Freres KW 
stenfe ar Ara siftar SOT (ATER HY) 
an aretedt ware fra dhe aeleerarg, 
Perera aren arate wae aaat era: 1 va 
att: se fara feeeir & carers: sega: ar’ 
gearte scieet sr fos dha wer at vera 1 gaa Te sat waa 
Be afer atte we Be Ferg Sew Perec Be fea | - 
Teese Prats wrorareTy 
we cadet ami ast ga fate Aaa 1 vw 1 
get wear Sart oa vel ar dt amo anfe fear we ray ast FT 
WSR TW Herat Gt Det at cm fas frat | 
fears fate thardisate aeitferar 
ecauatar frac fe war fava Ta x4 1 
aha tem a cfs sit ae ape feat | ae orm fee sara faa 
sory sre frfara wet & 1 (wet Tt ean at saga ae St) 
aqarena: frart arpa: 
om, fatacifa weiker grat AeexITL! xe I 
adart ferera (feared ater) sre fara ver tet att SX HT ATT 
fra ara &, ae sted war ca fre ert & 1 we area a tifa a 
HI RK IT SAM VST B | a 
aie ag ya waa Shred ATM: Ae: 
aativrd ga fofe afore: wer wit: 1 wo 1 
afe sae Wee feet J or al Hea we Tet eT ow, fafs ar 


BEE frara ade 
ert 
wasn frrarel sreatretanag 
way Sra Waray ead: TATSA WE: i ve | 
Tt arent at sfes (TTT AIA) siz xia (areafars feerfa ) A xaaq 
SR TET MM | TAS (4G) YS ET TAH HET TH STEN We ET 
F Fe ard eq RV ; 
BPA: HOTMVT ATST ATT TW: 
wafa fer ararfe wear Aeeq TIT xe 
AAT AAT SI ANT Hel AE SAH ATL MT SF | Afar say 
wears & cet & qalea a wefan sires feat wet aeq, ax 
fea, are arfe at sem ten dt ae sae te 2 | 
aarery Frerare fahacat om, TA Wey 
TTTATE HHA ASAT ACT AACA | Yo | 
arte Se say aaa aw cay fag we fora fora AY aos 
HF BWA aA cnit aT aga suHn fear | 
adage wares TeRT wars: 
aaa: BrIMSTie Was: 1 Yet 
OTHE, WATS SAT ATER STS A ST SHY era HT Ue (Fearf) 
Fraran ae wre ve aife & eet aha war fear wat 
We: varia Beat Hear Wareareys: 
STATES STE PS YEA TTOMTATTT | 43 I 
wl at a A area aaa A sett Ufa 8 fava 7a Uet @ ger 
wl & otk Tam aqan gH faey wy fre FI 
fefer sre eet Fey arr Ret Garfey 
afavarrqareard Veer ef A Aa 1 4s | 
ara: FE aren & few sist @ stqa (o,000) ae aT oft AY TT 
ars & & wars ee fers ert i fafer sera safe H, ar rtret sarfe wet 
a wae ute sist AY ats Fe zeit er | 
frere ara eracara, AT ert facarera: 
ME: Wread Aare: Wage: | ay t 
% faves wet ¥ ara: Faroe we tr fasra fee ae te THAT 
& | ota: Up aga ad @ arly waa & are TE UE & ivi F Ae srt 


area We Tees avis BSAC 


Q SAH! ANI HA WT | 
wer Ware SY TTY faders 
Sal TAT ATAAMT VT TRATANA: 1 Gy t 
RR Hs TA TT H srqan afe we feafa areca B wa aT sifaw 
ardt & at saa we SSA a Her asm | 
AS AATET (4X) WAY faraqat (wy) Aa AIHA: 1 (190% ) 
Weed ST (RRR) ATR SAT: (ARG) AAS ATEHT: (AWW) 1 4G | 
aeret & fat ane & a FH (Ruy) GSAT A (¥4u) AT 
GST | (HET TTT A) TIT PTT F (90%) TISAT AT (GR) FAT VSM | 
TS MTT F (AREY) FATSAT AT (RAs) FETA UST 
fader ta AFE=T (G02) SATE YM BMea: 1 232) 
WET TH FT ATP (ERY) AAT WHISTTA: (3oGo) 1 Yo 1 
WH Woy A (e902) ASAT A (Rex) Bera VSM 1 MA aT A 
_ (RRQ4) SEAT AT (R080) FETT VSM | 
va eefaer Fer qahay Tera: 
dere: aferat: Ser aoa faye ue 
a ver WH snfe & wer wit F dies H feta (ale yo,000 
ad are Ufs sist wa a ati St) fafad wea anit FH etca uteri 
Al BISA A Tera USM | 
wag WEA Fel fap -safafeory 
ad fe faacer eq: WSaTTahe 1 4g I 
. Get fear gam was Fe 2 aT ht St aaa S| Tila Fe, 2, 3 aT 
¥ ToT Ht et aaHa e 1 age Fe 4 IN aw St aaa zs | 
TATA: TAT, AAA fer Worrarfx: 
arnt fafa wren wafeire fret eft 1 go 1 
gat wart ¢ at Fe 2, 38, ¥ a4 MT A ae 2 Se aT 
3PM TH SVT | TS WH SA Fat Ht dea 33 Eat | 
wre ane F qe wet wat 
Watercera aotar fers forararer aftr 1 eg 
area & ara sit Raa & ata gafata A afe yo He aT 
ft arat us at ae am faa wer wT | 


Bee Pasret adn 


faearel wenrel @ wx ASE UTA: 
° Watareaar eat wae fas Ta TA: 1 I! 
fafa aaa onfe Perera 4 an wen sift 4 a Aye sik ua 
al Watashi BH BOT SAH AMG H AN F HE Teas 
BS Wa BAM TY AMT Hat gt (we 22,29,Rvo) 
se Yatra ware TT HITT | G3 I 
TEA VR ASST HT HET ANT (¥~,22, 9, S¥o) HET AW AB | 
waa Faery Trea fated: 
atfas =prar arftt var TATA | -&Y I 
aed Sa H are Tay stest WE Ta AAA SA WK afe saa 
areas ara aia a wm fear = a fea Ta a 
wan gH frat ter fare TH PTA: (2g92) 
Wistar (232%) aT fH ay @ ATM: 1 woud) 1 G4 I 
BOR, WER AT YoKR TSN A sera (fra AA A HT six efe 
¥ waa @ 1) 
Tard TOTTI Marte farsa 
Tarctearl yasdtat Fat arfaat ate 1 ee | 
.. SAU WT A War BAA (Y0,000) at are uftada sag SMT | 
THT sit fe FH up sig Hr st BF 
aratag STKE Var (2g9%) AY Teafaned: 
BIE UTTeT TOY A TATA: I (30%0) 1&9 I 
a ano FY egy SSN ar Beran + writ ura HT AAMT F (300) 
BRT, Saat: (4%00) AFAIAT (Ego) ANTS. THELAT: 1 (230) 
wise featrena ferrate frarea: 1 (23,¢%0) 1 &¢ 1 
(4,290) (&XC0), (¢,3G0) FAR VT APT (2G, 9%o) BWP (BW, odo) 
(2220) AT (26,290) WSN A Berit | (Hea 4s aha Ta WT 
&¥o,290 B) 
BURAAE Tas (22,200) BW STATS TAT AT 
om, fatat aer at orerar ava frararg 1 gg t 


afe ga ore fh aria ora ere vet eta at get at ora art SIA 
TTT HUY | 


se 


penta 9 See lA IER 


afar Yaar sraratae aferar: 
METMA Tra fearsrsisatt Htfa: 1 0 | 
wes afra a G4 dat eral on a4 Praca ae ( oeafaen 
“fate 8) Seat oer ora Praereth | St fas areaters orarrig eT 


wer warafa: Ber Yet wretratfarry 
aay fay (22) Sa: BeeVarel Hed THT we 1 
(arte fafex #1 gecdfem & sya) wa gfe wT ses BST Ta 
poner qeenfe As ae # ses H aT | sie ae 22 ad Te Hy Uy 
8 Pres cer eT (Rea ATA Gg ad Ff usw OT) 


Tere wIaTENA Weisser Yr: : 

are fs Yara ete aifetrH itera: 1 zt 
, 7° See wa ase weet ses gan) ot: adeeafa Aerie A wert a 
oa ad a are ap one at aaa 


Tie aa afer: whet Aa HET Geert 
aaa farts aeafacafs aftse: 1 03 1 
ae wae ore SA aren We as Fremrers & fare gers qeeafa 
Fue Sst ora 2 | afaer A geeafa ares F afe ay uitada 
% SOT sat et it afesat aT 
art Gear MT: HAT, AteTatel 
_  yettrarag (33) Tar Sitrereat (4a) fetaar 1 wr 1 
Tp ao Hy Sam fea wea | Rilfe aS ad co Ha ¥ alk y 
ad Ft Up-up GAA EA FH SRT YG B AT AA HK RY Waar Fit | 
. fe area @ fazarag (3%), after (fit) (42) 
Yet (3) feat gar (x4) feat fasrar (0) ferenft at 
ten: tana fafear Aecrarafattad: | oh 1 
Uy (3) TI (24) aT fasta (29) aife Gacax et EM | BiH co 
Ty SIT AR Te Ry Maree Aare F Get HS are od eT 
Sat Ser AH wafer sree oer ara fevers area | 
fey ateere were qafears Tr TAT: (2G ¥2,49,C¥0) 
Yera ss WT: We Vad: ATTA AAT: | we I 
qeeafa wt TMT WEAN (36,52,49 ¢¥0) AAA aa at & few 
. 3 a dt aeaceat anest ee aries 


B90 & fasra ain 


2 Ute ToT SAE (ty) forres waft 
Se, Wares ca sa Tenfs WATT I ws | 
a aT a st Hem Gears sree Tae w He Fey W ae 
sree Hyer er | eae ya vfs enfe sitar vee sie fea 
arm 1 
arfae oredter (ex2) ait Aare tere: 
ane afaat aa arf cm fate wat: 1 0c 1 
(x¢¥2) ad ae Sfeahad Ha ai greats Ha ara We aT 
at 2an fe eat va & us A ara ama 2, fe rel 1 sed ER . 
afa ara ga, fata att | 
wearers faware ohare At 
ANON WASH MT THATS: | VF I 
wifes wre al tera 4 afe SA a aha WIAA Fa WTA HT 
deere Sat wea F 1 Tat Ht ae Tes wer Bd ea F 1 sa 
vim ae wer Tel Uae THA 
HATE TMA Ghee at Tara 
PATENT Wrareted Tear TATAT | co | 
St BH fs Her safe go anit A cee et weft &, va thre nfs 
HT PAM: Yo,%o A WM HC fer Wea A WM HPA | 
Std: FATEH fea TAPaa 
amt fasarie vara aforar ararfehH: 1 ce I 
wet BH sifaad tar (aaa Bre far ) A ko A aM ea Bs Hl 
adt wan, ak area at armre ferrs = ute A ast 1 aet feat 
se Ute att wa: arreft aia A HVA | POTTS HT GA: 2,3,---3 
Peas S AM KL Go A aT AH 
fame qerart tae feat WATT, 
WTR, WT Aaa: fers ae ate wsTHT 22 1 
faqu sufe '. cena Fo Get a 3 | ae oe anfe & cari at 
eat eri | 
THESY CAST GT TEA VE HAA 
wife ore: Bet TaaeHt AAT 63 I 
vat sree (Column) ¥ foraar tN 1 eet Wears wt wee 


AAT Sty Tey aly PR 


wed S 1 wT eH srqard S ee aad fer ol we Pare FH Ae F 
we fafa are 2 | 


aret unheated: eretef: we: 
Nea a VIET Fg Sara tyfW i cx 
Wena sik vite wet Geer a Tet Bl aE aA ah fafa gedt H 
ani at efe @ ft de @ | sa wet a tar WH Ae He fafa ae 
arti. 
HT wey aay gH feed aq ware: 
va aafqarn Wa Ga ATT | cy 
amy Wet anit a fra feafa Fo we fearg 2h Ta ae SS 
fore sa ue at gt am srr vel aw fa wef @ ares HET eT | 
ewe sik vit wea wy ar set ETF 
frara fertanl-qrtet ae caerrer Tet aa: TATE, 
afary ga waft wad, Wet Wet Hay 
_ Feat xer afe a aed Aea Ges Wee 
werase: fad genet: wet Feat 1 eft 2a 1 
aaa Hose & ee A phe a eK} Ofer ae Te Ha aT aR 
wal 3 1 ote: geet wt Uae @ Rar we amet eq TA feerfa FH eT 
feared @m | ota: Sen SN Aes De wl PTH (AS aT Vite). Weare 
PLUS CIE aA FI 
apetae: A iat arearced waferat 
Wear HATA (yoiye) HT FT tT: 1 co 1 
Wet Bt ape SAH fae ae saat areafas fea Rad & fare 
ways & uH sie Hl siqa uftfe & feara & (yoiee) shyet sare 
Hl EK ST HAST PTH | 
warqd foaerel moister fre 
yataate warat afer frarraried: 1 ce 1 
Al TA HULA 3q sie eM | TaN Aye srfe 2 afeeit war 
ya @ sar fen wel ace w@F G fafed eT | 


TeaTAg saya oars yet faferac, fare: 
Aurited eaoreta HeahrcareaqrTy 1 63 1 
Rea A 2 sie Sara HT PNT TATA | geal S seg qx a Ae 
Fas ae HT TAT 


BWR faara ede 
POIATHTTT (Koo) FATT TARTS 
, Baxla FEra care fas PACT: 1 Fo | 
ed) BX ST SPSTHT ST Hl CT AM (Goo He) H BAAN Ta 
sie qa am Were at fee A um fag SF 
aaaterta ret a Perera ar yt 
free taitiraentarrge Fare 2 I 
ve fag 8 ye oe oe Vet GTA: ist atk wR aS FT 
at Sr ant Hr sits er Sa TG Frercit | 
AoA ewe Pars Sat (A413) Ter PT YT: 
Cat Tal WAHT APA ATEAT | 82 I 


a a ee re ae go YT aT Sf 1 wa 
(22412) Sitter EMT | 


ro x Vea FRee = V3¥3¥ + 300 ee) 
VWXVLN WB S¥¥ + Rocco = Ix (B¥URW¥) 
wee ae SR) ST ae SE = (eeuia) sige 
waaay War Valera Ta: 
wise aWarat He He Tay 1 g3 | 
Far ste carard & aa al ufaga wer wenn (aafsare at Yat 
al eat Skt WH Arar YA A) | Fe Aa H sre a Bla F | 


HA FA AAACN Tat 


re sar: vefautt Harfra 1 ey | 


gfroser tar wan & fart vert F wa ga a waa wae 
SF Se IRC Fee UE AI ee SOU eT 
eI 


wa, Tara Har ufsavee tae: 
WH WT Yet favaterarg (41.93) HH Aaa: 1 eg 1 
SN ee a pa Se a sel ene a 
TE SAT (4123) SST | 
“ward fava ferdt a cater ft (view) aa: 
STIS aM Gar Gr wader qari eo! 
& Ufet Sz F ast WARK (viv) siqet Ere B, (WY +23” aH 


alaa 31s ceeq aula -Bh98 


apa ii) Ta tae & free se sik Ate afta santo sift Stat BI 
TAA TAA Had: WAST, . 
yates aa: war Prepared ferdt fag: 1 ect 
atte ud 8 wa Kw ufsosa Haro ye wt aH spe diaz 
ren A ax frea ufe & ora F wea 
Wiese BUTT HAT ATT Wea 
Ufaga frat fae Be Wer! 8 I 
eae 4 aqui & sea a tem | Han 4 UP & ast FSA 
aq ofa ga 4 faa ufe & ara A eT | 
vated amen abaeasarte adh 
UALS WeIAIgt: SM BS WE: | too | 
. We Hl Se arett ace (ye fee 4) Ghat & wre Hen HF Ta 
— fera Fe onfe ¢ ufert § ape me Fer we 8 wa eT 
waren wm dente aca oe 
Weqaretas: Wear GHTSA: WA: | oR | 
aan afar % feet gen enfe & ufwat 4 aea ye a GE VE 
_ sifea dra & 1 As sik gen & ane A Bp|e we ae Ae We TAT 
reas Rat wosaes Aesth 
We AeA Wea FE AEA TAT | 0? 1 
y eR D Weg WE TM UPS We aH UH-Us ter Gtaa & 1 Aaa 
Loma sik vfrge Sat suse at erect ef ret 


wae Gara aad wgd HAI | 

Tere arene frit falar arg TsT 1 203 | 
 Ufvare 4 ea crt tarsi & ata fora seat (Hen arfe F ) ST 
pwd are gornst 8 1 ae fede, ear & (wer ker Ht fee Ae, Tea 
: wre fer a) 
| qa aged Hic Perey 
: Ze wife wet atte qatar wR RAET 1 gow 


t 
i 
& 
f 
he 


: at qa orn ¥ qx 8 ce ve ae ten Hie oT Hfewa 
Ltn & 1 gst site aitfeert & ate oer actger woh ter Stet FI 


Roe¥ ye a fasrd city 


saryet vaq tar efor wfyfeta 
WHS HAS: Waretsarhy FacTTT 1 You | | 
ae aot tar sa at feen FH art @ 1) aet sea oredr a staat 
TA @, faa sree a sree Hed F 1 VX Up! & ea ufiera 
@ farg ait wef at em, fate an ax ven} a 4 oft fear fer 
HT WHat Ft . 
Saad Tey fitseré Teg 
| qeatg wera Bra Sie Wet TET 1 8 | 
TH tM & ue a fara ar Se B 1 & UM ai ey UM Hz 
(sa 8 ot WW WE wa Tet BT F ok Bena vais ear z | 
x Ge Verret WEST Feet: Wet 
HecHlfewatraada farr WNTAT 1 gor | 
x (ge 8 aria gh sist vera (awa ae ® st go” aa 
VWwo” RW) FH WIN Tana valfes an wien YA eat Bi 
wari me faret HEIR ela S| staid Te sie ra feral & at a 
aT Sra F | 


am afer flaars frefeat 
wry Ne frais aay Acer fara 1 od | 
TH WM HI We Yeast Bt tea & a am aha eat &H afar 
free Tet SOM Ta ta & ue wl yd nfs waa wa am Ate 
| RET OH TaS safer Veh B, fara verre we ar fare Stet aT ete z | 


Taare HS HR MA: Wet POAT, 
a aafel ae ad whe aTeisht ftacta: 1 208 
aft Far BF Ww oft Sx ae sife 3 feral F wea ahs Ga BT 
aa aa sofe & Uist AH aa eta zB 


ferarat frcerit- yer aatfers aa wey 
wrewa pera fareiee: 
Arie Fe wet Tat =A, . 
PATS, Teadishe ufTAVSsers | os Zo | 
qa a art & fra ver Fea at nfs at geet fen A Aa wal 
ara are at nfs ett &, set wer Ara sa gat F wero ara EA TE 
at fa sa @ facta fee % Stet @ 1 


GAT SS WE AVA | By 


tial vHarat feet Ae srepdifea: 
OTHE ATTA HHT (avys) Faw: 1 vez I 
va ak ae wea A se Hen A fawn oe Hea we aTeHT art 
al wel Ea Ht (Heol) fn a afew era & 1. dent we a Afs 
ft aa a es Stet FI 
Sahel wet Pasar yeqe: 
aq fara att erta erento, tea: 1g 
afar aK oer ax fore & ona 8 ce waar fers Fe A 
wl Tel & HRT A aot apt sa H awat AAT SPT | 


fafaq, aaa wet tate: fafa: 
Ha AACA AT Ta VPear Wa 1 2x3 1 
Shit cart (Ta a go” AM Wo W K aero 
% Bren aR ST Hey eT a TR Ht ETM MAE La AT AK SUM 
Gt aura erit | 
TASS THT (\9G0e BxIxc\904) 
Fret (43) Penge: (23) WATT 
Uforat eeatrarviter: Harta WHCTAPT | Ux | 
that att VR HT AHH HAM: 9G 02, 2Vw TA He, 90k BTA F | 
FAY HAT: GI AM 2B PN HA W erat sa Hof em i wa a 
TH Gof = WF 06, Aw X43 = Vo, 3238 462 ASNT TA Ve HI Sat 
= ¥2,\904 x WB = BW, Wy ATT Bi Set Hot & srqee waar 
TaHM Bl ST ST ATE | 


Pash Nila niall had all ileal 
ware: afer ereferat WaT AAT 1 e241 
we AT CIR, wie, ara sik ax or fie Ha gente FT Het 
Ta & Saal HE Gi Te B 1 suces wz et, Ava FPR BF 1 areas 
AM @ waa @ fee grat Heat HH ret zs ) 
fata aarag a wat a re aherary 
 faferea ght meq aa: TragMafHary Ue | 
aere wa > aa ane arf St Han & are Gt Hall FAT HL 
aa wen & eH pie TaN 1 Han wl Ger Vila Hel Ha whe 
Sn %, ae fara cen wad HAG 


BOR forert edu 
waa bx ers der ae aha: 
. wet rey Ta fe: SPAT CM: HATHA | velo | 
vfanosa Fo site ax Mt sect fer A SN vite ah nf oe 
wt eq uta @ aga sie 1 aa: ete we H aye et ape yg 
at afa ert area 1 ae ar eit we deer eet @ fora var ope 
we ea 8, set war aie A eile newer HT MEER HS ORE ate 
Brat F 
Waa A AA Fury aa: Gaal aa: 
were faa: get qreq afters: 1 geet 
ata xara Foo sae Free & a at ye afa @ atten nfisita 
qa sik yaw at fafa ga sik geal & aha 8 OA ary saat aw 
uifa drat @ | 
wat aarmnfagea dasarh qat qe: 
areadt fat fray, CIA HVT TAT AT 1 Vee I 
wa: wi @ we afrara afk yeat @ qi at firs fee 8 fees 
(q4 & wie ai fee 4 fea) tive, We sit wit at ward 8 areiq 
wet & fane (ra wr, a sae we) aw nfs chad & 1 
faettoert apt acer ate: Ware, 
PNT AEA AT sTAATT: ferct | Ro | 
: sa afer ara anit ste ant aft & at F fae & wer TT wT 
81 fa et Feary wot asst * squrd sige sige AM wt WA YH 
HA TATA | 
we qa wares (yc) Favs fe 
Gar TaN qa: Taewafs WaT 1 zz t 
zfa oe Feat Rog 2V¥ Bl WBZ coo Al ANT YTS: ue erm sa 
STS ATT Ht (HAN GSA FB, ¢ svat = 83,000 SSA) SAT STATA 
et Ua Pea SATA | 
reer aeifas Tear Ter Uy 
MATT (20) |Ta HA Taq, ALAS |TH: 1 22 
ea wan he eq fag F geal fag Sat Tas UN WH ATT Hal 
fe sie sarars (Get Ate SATA = 23,000 ATA) HI SATAN | 


ane Be tees aay B09 


Wl ah freee area fara aehya: 
as PA rereyT GATT IE STA 1 Rzz I 
za mar at od fee 8 ane at TAA | yest, ef sik tna & 
ee a UH ten aaa aed a 4 
Set awTan ary art ged frat 71 eex I 
ga fee F ue aT St HoT HT Ta TaN | yeat & afa rae 
Hana want Ta sat a a fee A waN | ae He & afar aT 
¥ sm sk a aM H Ses AAR 
Ree efor stat ete Wer Arar 
aear st Hae aret (4) MATETSTAT (WS) 1 RHI 
ofr we sige nfs 8 seas car a eferr aT at AH TATA | 
wat afed Wa HW ve sige ft & 
TN aT Paar Fart, TATA: | 
TRAM STMT (2) FATS AA: TS: 1 YW I 
Se) Une es ee et eee 
aa ett cfr fe Hf fram | 
qf qatanrd ae ght darn sta: 
aa: fre Het seat Brae aw wht ff 1 yy t 
geet & Hine wo (qh) ga wef edt a seat ar orreT er sik 
geet @ rine at aw fa ae He (kz He Bl eat) Chari | 
ae Haat fey afin fea, (Yow) Hat 
_ atrarer uf: get aot (4g) Eft Prorat (eeu) TAI UWI 
Te ta & Aha att Ter at Uw fesn A feria & act gow He 
tirar aferor ifs at Ga Hor (ue) BV APT HT SGT HF avy (Get Har 
STATS Ge ATT Hat Saag cig) V ANT VA AW (goo x UC)/Wwy = 
¥2)I 
Wafer (v3) Blea ware He vas aa afe: 
TAT WETITS xBoIT fafa TA: 1 xyes 
¥3 eT te at ai ata et | ae se faa Fae we ea 21 


Fat verre serewil @ sa Del at dt ari siz aat fa wert Set aT 
wat e 1 


ae _ fared edu 


» we foerd ae ta ofr ee Sere ZT 
TATA (208) Het FAler HTAYASA BATT 1 xy0 | 
ya fered & arpa vest He 14 Ua Hen Hr St ea wen ay | 
great ex et rel Han HT HR AT | Geet H UR ACH YF BT A goe 
Sa orare 8 AN PAN AAT | 
we Gasé g dhe: waren saga: GF: 
SAMA ATHTHE: Uae SST (9%) FTI | 23z I 
wer a 4 gd, geal sik tine fare HY aa Gare HE Ae 
at at ora: set ga Fea Feary ys Nc & vita & | Tas spE 
Meet ee err ae rte SO 
feraamramt geaerdt fer aft: war 
and dhisé gardéen wy aq eae Laz 
amt ara teat (sats) FH cham | gas are ta sik ana a 
tfra nfs were: eer ote sae at aes ore ore wea aes 
wart fears | 
srrerrateargd TER TH (0) weet 
YAS TST SLTET WNT Af area (2g) Fert BT 9330 
ae a GF srapdoy SF Yio AT (9 Yo) TR H Ae Bt °3 Har. 
ye afa crenit 1 
aha ; acter 
wisita ae ht dar aH awTSat Taq 1 ax I 
weg ara fer cer at oe ufaer aft dt cha ward 3 1 yeat 
rs sk i ax 8 aa eu aa (Re) HT HI fa MA RW HAT 
aet eine ® oe ak Ae ert H St ve wt afe ert -eH ye sk 
gad afer | 
wHTeaish were feat: fraait Ae A 1 a4 1 
eitsiee srepetor 3 aerer teret arf wet wer SY vite Ufa ear S 
wat & ax 8 cf or AR MAS ae oe at Fer af ot fore 
art & I 
ate Gree HA AAS APGAATT, 
arevorat fret wceret farstita: 1 ag 


area a eee avis : WR 


sine ate at wer a AK ate geat ex StS, TSE sah 
a at cas ot eK St %, Fa aT HT eta 2 (CTR MR ® faa ws 
IE IG SA SIS EA ENO SNS CaN eh Sree 
et erat) | 
vad virarast feta: ufaoare 
wheres sofa aerate frsaa i wz 1 
ae adt er a stata sitera sredu & ao gaat we sas 
en & Sr sa mk wt fen Sn ary SF aof S aT SAC et 
aires 3 ure erm 2 | 


MATH WHA MTA TTY Aa: 
Wereeel arare Tarafy aq: We: 1 2a¢ | 
wfa Shea ve wen FH a<ra @ ones we ara se at ace ufa 


wet waa ta @ oe tice faaose den ufos & et gat a 
WA TTA F | 


ASMA FMT AERA: Cpecdd: 
neqratiie: fra: yori Tat: FIT 23e | 
art: AA gest Sr Het @ fH sae seq we ares Ara sof aT 
Spe WK SM & wT yw, We, wh qa okt ane aT Ae a } 
at aeH wa HT fare Sta 3 | 
Tah HR HT HA TANTT TA: AAT. 
TAT SE T Bat Pi wreaasha: 1 exo | 
Fine snfe ara art vet et man tia Shea ae gaat aa air 
ven geet & Ger sem tral @ 
Aas TES BS AT Stet Hay, 
Om arard aaah ea: SET AS hHarT |) wwe | 
ane aie ar we qa Sea set sett wean A PAA art 
FE Spe We SA & fet west Gera ae a vite werd Te Taw 
ae WE Hes VEER feat sre zi 


HTS PNT FLAT SCAT ART, 
canraterdians qf ara, wt Pfr exe t 
Tas We Spe eH Gea fea aa & 1 aa Gite a arf ez 
SA & are stk ws aE WE a aw A fearfa tar & faa ve Vitae 
He Bl UES fear aa F | 


a 


_ 30 . THSra attr 


yet Heard ward ard Vem: werety 
aH Feare Fe ATTA BATATAy | evz 
wal WER Whe Hers, WHATS AHA, WHA sa a weit 
& tear 8 ma qe, sik wht at em at art 8 wa eat ae 
gfe det & aro siz yfs & faa - 
aden Aft sie Saher faartarys eve 
A a wh F ate deen ht fen 21 aR a MRR one fad 
wet Bl GER Hel Wa & 3a Vat Sl aus aaa or aha (asia) 
Bra artes 
are fared 2 & farrer efe fray 
pclae wHeat 3 Stadt Waray 1 wy | 
Te wt am fas ey & feu anifaera & frat farsa earet at 
Seen ot ore e, oT at ar alist We AT TAT eI 
aenfeartds ara wet were ata wear Yeas: 
aetepa wee: adort frotareet 1 er 1 wwe 
sa Salfafeat A vfaa Safes erect on ator dear Raa saa 
‘ape we crea fen ae eet att Wea @ FUE Wes sre fae, 
test anfe on Frater ate a arya wat eT ST & 1 (Catia F) 
frara frit wate weufravsa eS ae ape aH UfOTa T 
Wasa Hwy waePSl WET BT: WHET 1 wv | 
ae Ufa aa Y neq ug stk sie ufega A we wpe we yaa FI 
at: We wa Ga SH H WAI WS Spe VE Hl Vey Te AAA 
area | (faara ferrafer &) 
TH We: Ca Wise I: Waa Har aaa frees 
Bpel fe arer weteray wafers I Preve qfet: 1 eve | 
amt ufaga FH we FAA WAG Saal AAS Haga (THe) F 
fre waa a tae %, ae areifas wpe we Ft 1 aet waa (a feen) 
Te VAT Hl Cpe WE S| TAPS VE Ht UM snfe arat & fare 
watt arara 3 se (rere ae sfteite) St Ser TS 
WATT we: Wheres st qaateraie WaT | . 
| Mth wegaerdife tere sreferar ar wie fs: 1 eve | 


araatt 31s xeeq aut BER 


gfaga fora ena Ot yet B aad qe A se wa wt Ase a 
feat Ta @ | ae waa A fa iter SA & er fasrat 7 sa fa 
at wea wt S| 


Tar We, Ha wa Ae Aq: Cathal Waa) SATA, 
HATE HEAT Hof YA Wald SHel HET VARTATHT | eho 1 
va ae ute at wR (Ufa aa a ST tart yea aaa frm]! Bh) 
aa ata waa wet aT 8 1 ea We Te ated oT te Ufed TM BT 
a auf aa (ae a tae VE a Lan) Han aa A He Ue H ta S 
SH ral & | Ba: YBIHaT HT sera eat &, sk BeqMES aM WE VE 
wart Sra 2 | 
Tafead ST aE Age at afta: eaarHeatosr 
aasyfara: Yoo aft waar saastadt t SFT 1 ue 
oe ve wa 8 yet @ aad ze he tas HO Ua rw! BIT 
21 aa: va sik Ara a We Hae: Bet sit ser cre 8 (TST 
ara) | 
BIT THe AA Aat Caadss Ta: 
WATS (vio) WAM SE Aherar (Ys) WISTHITA: 1 42 I 
wig sk saat Bra, sare an sea anf fara arr *A Far 
& fae ad at Sit writ (Sat ae Tat) wo” sist H afta VB | ata: 
Sy uredtea wea na & uta wrt HB ee” @ HA 23° 90” (CT HI 
¥o°) TT FI 
wx Tees Ud Wares Aeredy 
WATS TATST TEATEAT 1 243 | 
WE TET HI fora at aie & ae Herre ea aaa aT 
al suuft sae wy sik ofan Sa H fawa FH Het Se 
watTatatt gear amfeerfaterat 
ware aed Wat werered Ber fast 1 eye i 
fora aaa efa ote wee Sei g ufer wt ed we wea B, ae TAs 
aig Hen sit fase aan ea %, Ta waa aaa (fara omat F 
aM Sr sre) A TK HI RK HA EG - 


gern andtcra wana feat wat 
CAT AAT TSN THAT TS ty I 


aR feara edoy 


ae fara Y yore orm oiet 8 1 gee ara Ean fe SE sik g ora, 
Uae Ot HAT (TR Ha) FS sta: Tae aa sik wos Ae Se | 
qi ue q Gis fia wer fravaa: | 
oe Fare Are Fel Taare TAT 1 L4E | 
wa wen Ft ora ae we wres-et fret wae Han (fe ae 
wa) Fre wer aney-sra, ster ste Hanstt F WAS yeat 
wa Fe a ore ot wa aT aiftee Ste Fea ws GI oT a aq 
atk afa at erat & | 
— Fwesa we get ware args 
Weer Tat ofe wos Aaa: 1 gy | 
Ueat there ade a cim fedt we HI ewes & ane a 
See Ta ear ene ee eee ea es 
erat & 
fafa st one af eerfat qf ada: 
Va farardty Ga fara edt crite fast 1 eu | 
ara waa Fat ue fafa a art O yedt & Hz a Ti ez 
we et ter A ax at wen & 1 (gd ven & aA) fg 
7 ere wy frag afte qare fag: 
amt fread werd fafrsstary eer ate: § 249 | 
fry ae us @ tfe fra Sz am at ten a ae ore fear 4 ET 
Brora eo Ae Cre ewe 
El SAT z I 


wes, wat ter areas wacat 
arate fafrirtet qatartrtags tgo | 
aes & aera sat Gears FH ae frst Tea a eat & 
Us So Te ax a UH et om GA BB | St se FET EF ST 
afa wet edt 8 1 @ warfare cen fats & dha 4 fedt era 4 os 
Ove wt fen an es @ fen & ata & sear Safa aT aa Hed 
zi 
ard aarrgd Career ae. sfe faraat 
Veqraraate: fey wet UT HT 1 ree I 
@ cafe F tf wer a wha ga et ce aesa eT a: Aha 
aét ent | Frac fafas Haat cea er I 


aTaat Be teeq arity Ca 


weigh, AT GWE: Aasaafa eer 
WTA TEA TH HATTA: 1 VE I 
we oH AT Ga 4 tet 8 ais ett Fi frg a cs AeT ela 
(afaars A A Hoe HF Sle 8) sa: SE Sa sk wiidaT FH 
AAA HAP AIT Wears: 
HAG FT WANT AANA F IS TTT 1 ER I 
SAR & HIT ay ea ae et Sat Hl Te Sie char wa F sax 
& Hroy sat at ae afar seat wort Ht ag wet 2 | 
wane § St (wat aa sik cwosa) up BAS SRT aa aT 
wear vet eat 
Pett WH AT wed HIT FATS Wa: WE: 
write wae Wet BEATS, | MMA: | vex | 
fir wa an ah ga a Gaia aH ara e | Fee A 
WA: YR wR 
aetey aad at cuisish Wa 7 Aq, 
ASAT TAT, Wet afer rar 1 ey | 
afta +x sar 8 fa & aa ea Ge F aet te Ura B I at: 
erat afd Set aed aaa fates ora at we at are BI 
TO Sle AAT AT TT UTR UT afer: 
Ama WATAS Fel Ad fT|l [CasTAT 1 gq | 
fafar et areiret ga A st sae (gem) edt 8, ae fata & 
ud uf sa A aw eM & SR arian edt @ 1 fas ca ar AAT 
Tel ae fatas ay wt ad aar sa4r 
as TA TAT ATT HAST Teal TAT Veo | 
fafan guosa 4 stata qa, aa gu 4 eh etm @ I ae om Aud 
HOST Ut Ga SA & rey Hii Ga ue Bal Tes Gla FI SAH HPA 
wT & arqaa 4 at fates ort wt aac tag art 3 
wel fates aren wri: ahearet Tera 
wartd fay a wrist atta a Aer dat 1 tee | 


fafa oa at Sat aria fare Oe H Baie & aa eid &, Ta 
ea 4 arr dere fra waa seq er 8, sa a 


Ree Fear coy 
waa weraares os fafer aa: 
Aaa AAA: Barat BAT FT TSAMT 1 ves 1 
ae ort oer fates aa Gat Stat Bra eI we te ay 
Sal | ae WwW Ae os sik faa am & SRR ST AaST- 
Wag waft gH Ia oT ST aT fafa 
faaura fera Bret qae aafa: BRET 1 yo | 
wa et & are fahren & ez & aa art art 2 | ee Hay 
% feert ae at va feafa FH ope saafa ert Bt 
TL MOTT PERL Ht THAN Weald: 
wIPa Wear AirsigH, MT: CATT TERPS: 1 gx 1 
Ta: WT aa Gea SA F ae seat wr: fafa wha art 
depa we ga, Ba uftep] saz | 
watait a: wafed: eget ara Wega: 
Roa: Sia GileH, aT fata Haas W921 
Wat ep Tt Vp]! Vals HET Wa, Te yest at uae a ca sik, 
WE Uh Hae Ut qa FH Taz cfary frag wey UE Ut ee z | 
fr aaa wifa wit fet sear sar 
MITA HTT He ALATA TAT | 93 1 
fae ara at era aft Se Sa seri ee fa & rer ara sik 
erat ante area ar srat at Sat wae AGM | 
Tw Wes Arter Se H ar get feafa: 
THAAad aay WAHT TaceH!: 1 ov | 
nen ohera 8 mes ani & dew at fra wer feat sare ort 
%, set wa 8 Ores AP S wena B VEN waa | BATA | 
faqaies aret Iq wd WeETT, 
TAT FET WEKTLCHNS AAAS HTH TAT 1 94 | 
erat Ferfe sea wa A afe epe sa VS da Ves Fravat 
TH Wey Tet areal et WAM eM sah Tas He Bert wT ery wy 
MAHA Tet Sr | 
Ve aged eae Wer srerest Tera 
See SHE Ta: Be Ae: TAKA, WC WATT | WEI 
Sel SRY Se Wa oa SIA HT sa Bt ST aA F ard 


» 


art sia tee acts Bou 


grea SAW Te staf er sik wp ora A ots Ae ST Frases 
a eel ote Fra pret So Geta ert | eR wT few & wT aM 
wera SA STAR TAA HT Ht seaT ETT | 
Taft Tete qa: Ya fafosed fae wht 
Waka BA Lard AAP WAC MT 1 Yow | 
ami sik y us a fafa w fed as oe & St Gal et aang 
wart erat Bt 
HAT FOE Ta AL TETAS THAT: 
airaste fort: weard, araTPret Ae TAAL ve | 
we fafra 8 SW 3s TA RaW A al Vans Fo as B aT 
Sn G MH Ga a Gres as | stat: ae WH vig ot afr a 
arom | (xp a Aterg srftre eri 
fat ear feafa ane tatet: sae AeTaT 
WASH UTA BraAahS eT TAT 1 Vs 1 
 -¢fa ate ax firs Har F fear OF & Sr Vis ERI TAT Braet 
(orn) wat eri cen ure sie weer ara H ot ahs Soh Caae Ww | 
wre trewites wararare frgue | : 
TTA ATA A, CATA, ATA TASH | C0 1 
wx TEN A wash wes up et wat FSA & areot wis HT 
a ofan A a dt en aaa SR We al seat set eT 


fanosa fetter yfiarisd aosaa, 
aad, care Fafa ax aerate farsa: 1 22g 
wis a fancsa aittga & Sa ora BM & wren venta at 
ae Bat F 1 Me Mis wr AA ued) UE aE fa H y2z aM H awraz 
ae 
erate: wire erat eer Ter: 
WH, Var WANA HET UT a TTATT 1 Ac? I 
ota: OE HT Cae safe aH @ aratfas WAG WH Y ez si 
a Tat aa Vea WSs BT | Fert ore ar aaa Ht ed ® srqar 
ae arm 
Dress fefer cet wrereta aa: WIE: 
TAR HE ATA Toray He Pay AAT 1 eg 


BcR . fart eduy 


6 Ores & feradta fee Fora ee St HIT Ura sit eR SH fee 
ara etd & 1 (=x wet H) 
Wena wey opera wafer We: 
We Wa Aor: fare fea art qt wafer 1 tex 
wa mem ares aR ar ae ures fee A cee | a: ora 
ak IK um a ae Ha F 
wae we: frst cert we ey . 
THAT THT UT TA AML CAPE TAT 1 RC 
at gent Fae an A aed i 8 Ht TR ET HEH 
eri & wa we ger a ye feet & fae o sett fem 4H 
omer RE et are Ee Weer cst ae | 
wre sre Prarereet wret ae fatal TH 1 Ce I 
Wen Ahr are 4 ofa fae & foots fen 4 eh 1 at wen 
yd fer 4 ala a & are at aaa 4 ud fae a srt fee F 
Ste oe EN RR See See Ee Saree 
feat arr | 
 TeASeIAY SVsoas wifrs feyay 
fart CTEM Cast at TAT! Ve | 
fra ves (faqaga tara) 4 sea, seq ott HeqTe BAF We 
PEs UEL Sa tse eee oh SY BOT Kc ceaceaint sy ees aes eat 
ca 
qat frye faa Wea: 
ora, fae frat are sad yet Hare HI yee | 
we fara qa at fee A sar at & are ga wt sata (stat, 
BAM) BF ATA srHreT  4eq wae FH fara ar yt fae ys Hare 
wns! : 
ae Meret Ses TeaASaT Yay fey 1 ce 1 
aie see at acH BET BUTT Hare Hae chery et ATH BHAT 
Si Sat ae & aren fart a fee A ora chat & ere gH PAS 
Sa aert fat Wa wT SIT FI 


THe sata Frac wis Weare Gra: | FFT 1 we0 | 
frat @ saa ae Sar at at sere Saar ge Frere | 
saa aie Her Sa Fs We (aR) & MN HT ea Ae A PM ax fren 
(av3e) @ aT 2a wR Sha Geer F faa sear eK oa @ | aera 
we 4 3 Ufe (go) SSA Saat aS ST fread | Taal GF a 
qe ae fa A ary Sy a ot Ha TaN ee ora F | 


Shera eet WTS: FT ANTS ATTA, 

gfe Gwe 7 ae Ted fatearat Fx FHA tee 1 
eet Seite 8 oreerart F get ee (wpe ga Wages) ST Sa ATT 
(wes tra ads ex 8) fearn s | ae ahs Aw Tet A Ga | Ritfen 
smear St oH Hy Wepa 
Wa YA wt Vet was aE Aa: 1 
ae gH, Hae TaTeaATTAT SAT YATAAT | LBV I 
We, Aaa sik We am ga wa ga 8 eat! ot: cH ot 
TAR frat wen SSH AT HATH HIT Ga H ela B, TH ye HEA 
ei 
wea ARGS are: sae Tea BRL TTT 

HATS CHEE: Tara Hot TATA WET | 043 I 
, were tifa sere, sik atfe ai a ot steat seat yer 
or a wot erm) el qa wi fern F ope ee etm | Ge Hef wife ot 
Wz A ast Sat F | . 

are yee fret offs the aa Sat: 

SSM Tes Vet Ae HIT ATH: 1 vey I 
Fe ves Fe are ae Us ett 2 | (a a BT OT A sea 
& fst & ot ser Fe Ft ahs) we one ve oe TK HT TA 
WH Aei Teg st area Bla z 

qatraard Utssard afiarate 
weleared TAA Frat: a PreTT 1 gy 
a ne gt a yt a ufes 2 ufe & see & aa ster sea iz 
Stet or fran frat ser | 


Bee Tear ety 
preter & Prrfear wero AeareTS: 
AAT Year Wh wT TA: 1 28g 1 
Tet Hr ST Tea Sty Set He Het Wa FTE Bk a wT sex 
HA Hl SAM TAT SM TEA W TAH Bea He siTy erm | 
SOT CMMs: Kae FAT aT 
UPA: WTAMSETA, AT Harta 1 ees t 
Pra ty a ot aa Fa Va aon, Hira ga cfr F az 
ee Hosa BAM SF Ad WM | FA SRT B THX i a 
a 
wars arbngitfirntstt we seit: 1 
Aa: Spear HTT AeA, TAP ATT 1 ke 1 
Sef ste oadtara Bt Hera Het sat Bt GA sie aR + Ha 
EE ey ee ee ee 
THe SRT Fea SIM B | 
wep Ae afer whet wae fafa: Farry 1 
GA FATT TET FART 1 keg | 
yet & ez a ax anfe wht oa Del & aa qa HT AcHy 
wit are Var art & 
ae qa aad weal fagqte: feat WT ANT 1 Yoo | 
sa MTT YS HSA FMT A et WS Ura snes Si z | 
att: SEES Se et Se ee ee 
& | tare si a gfe edt et 
— mercraitins wilecawreanyor: 
oer TaHtt ae TWEETS ATH: | Rk L 
sek) eae ee ee a 
HF dt orere arfe are TPT et 
wart cite Aree quae quae ferg: 
wretet wratt Breoratts Fa: 1 oR | 
werd & SRT HT AA Sa Bi Si eat wa ge att wR HI TAHT 
Sel at cedtaa ste seectirarean Wot wt Gert Hee F | 


aaa BT TST aT RCS 


fafaange qetat atatenraa, eet 
arggarfraation araa wT HATAPT 1 203 
fafas wei st star want at nfa 2a ae etkaricat & ot ar 
y fea EU YS srs af ar aa ere 2 
ae ae ferrrart Harn aah a 
aoe. frerat qe: ferret ATTATAA: 1 Ro¥ | 
(wenfa @) we Han as sik we fast ates oft ara erat & 1 wet 
ow & S yeat fern ar ot sara Sr 2 | 
Tinlad Se VE rat wreapfa: 
Wars AATA TAIST TAT AAT | YH t 
wae 8 afe wat a sare ars a aaa Bia & 1 saa 
SPIT Bl UST VA HS HA St aT Z| (TAH HI A HS vaTA Ba 
1) 
ufearat aferrat wert arf fer, sa: 
SATS. TAT TAHT TATA: 1 YR | 
re A aaa fafa & aferai (fasrea: arferat) ar fen wa at 
gm 1 ga va was S atts sus Fe 
—. aateref va: eft preretfe worrewa: 
aagfoerdd cer VE TAIT: BT I Yt 
tie, aaf siz eita-arear & A a ve WT 8 | was HS at 
Me SA Ae was eit 
Wan ae ae eat at qwa: 
aafeat ght teen THT: BST: | Ye | 
ara ad Fo att q asgstt at am wer yeh ae F ein eae 
Cera) 8x 8 er ageit a we we safe Sone we safe eH ee EI 
ATT WNT et AleaTS AAAH  ut TM . 
trey eres wate Aq WTS WTA 1 Hs 1 
rey ar years aad Gea er 3 1 fadrard wi era 3 1 asf 
wre oT Was oat aa Vers ERG Ela B 
ra: ffs: aftr ura fart eet eft 
ae wita amraeq Ser tare gery far: 1 yo 1 
ita on gata tera, verd fore | er Fe (state) wet Bt wha 


ce ee 


Bo fae adr 


Be -B sean sean wa ert F | 
fret: arr Tae TTC 
arate wae art aa vite Terre | Bee I 
Yeast & a a fern fas usr S sora sifes Tet SP SH HT 
wit aga Sra F | 
VIIA Ba Ta aTaTfataa: 
wmeart wed: Safa AAs GFA ATT WI 
wet we yet fico ue (ast wT) US set aa aif BAH are 
tirsy aq eet 2 
GARATHEOTS, GY AMAT TATA: 1 NB I 
res F qa wt att fer agg 8 ast @ sae ot we A a 
BY TR SK For 8 1 Ga: ahh ® sredy YT Sa sve ernr 
ares & geet a Usa 8 1 ota: The ae ey we aaf aT ares 
Brat & | ; 
Pret Serdisera wart Araceae 
saat ferferd vedt ster aufftaa: 1 wees 
PRACT A srs ste dH (sea A Hard seatty an Precad? cart 
ert we OA are aet Bra six fhe set Sat ae Arey sik 
asf afer ert & 1 
WASt MUHA Wel SITY AAT: 
Waa feta, afte Sa TeTHTH 1 We 1 
ast Waa BI WM Het Sra S| Wet BS sea AF aad Se 
Barat a ert ae A safes te ( aah) are ears A THA 
vita er & | 
dis are gat wit faster waTEe® 
SMA ATA GATS ATTA 1 Wwe | 
HAM 6 A ee Ta Te se He aI ara Rta Sl S aea arat Ta 
are % aera onfe are qa et etedt & | 
qrsewes wrt er-amtfe wees, 
QAAY THA MAISATTS TAT: | WA 
sats 26 @ 2 & ata A feaa ora 8 antsitd @ aressezr a 


ATaAT BTS Teg AVIA ELE 


ASS A IN ONL Mie esa Sig iS. aaa 
Bret & | 


aah ate taraitrd ergerrsTy 
Bt: WE WH Whe TASS ATH! BWe__I 
| RY ST TAM TH TT AOS Sta Bl Ww BM H aA AH aT & 
AE 2- -3 wre a at BW B vo siete TH wr LIT THIET 
eT STAB | 


aqisee & care are qatfe errr, 
ATTA YOAAT GAAS ATEAT 1 2s I 
Bv A 3 Baw as gifdes snfe « are aH vita em @ 1 asi 
a ie 
sore wire Whey WSa SME SHA | 
wate Aqe CARA FIT AGEA | Zo | 
. STAT 82 Ovo F ata & carat H suf onfe c are vita ete 
2 stim Sars ¥ ret A vers ome vege ei YI 
Sa: PRAAAAM: Wasa Say 
fares & VS aaat axat Tae 1 Bz_A 


Sue So Uae nal a ee eeah es er 
a ca - 
Arar: eat: BPR CAMS: | 
Sel: TS HI CATT AveT AH fet (ve) Tarafs t 22I! 
“area aH vit dia & Ta sere sik May arat A wea HA THA 
fay aed anfe eg etd S11 ga weer frat ¢-¢ sit Tat BAIT 
we Ia wT acts Bs | 
IM AS adt Zafer (xy) at Hac feaq, 
Ua Sa TU F Tea: ATTA | 32 I 
STAM ¥e VAS AH VY Bais aa Th V Sat Tem BF Ta HR 
SRA HI BAT Eat 1 cfarr Mes A gen snfe « aera FH sax 
Taré & Ae snfe «¢ ufeat & qi & wa Ka et 
HA WAMSAATAT ARGC: I 
Tray Ware: caraTs HW FHT 1 Ww 1 
arr tf & Fe vast & aera anfe 92 are weg AM & faa wet 


BSR faara ath, 
wet afsa | 


aad arasafige afar aeeeftagaraas a | 
Sagara feraedien afettads weary 1 Bey I 
aaa 4 ada sik sina 4 aed Ge va fia @ oF Ufy ew ort 
& 1 aa FA eR aS A am frarefi @ faa Ge ai Fy am 
andl @ 1 att Wr site We Brat & | 


Seesee aeestr Pt Sarit Saree PaVTETT | 
Te Tes aa ated aa faeeraTer Tara ARH BEI. 
Bae AT FAT Bre san yest HY WH Test Tal H cara @ 
DR IS Aa F 1 Fat Fart Hl Ua Sera Hl SH aE Lat F 1 Tea. 
ary & i @ cag srrarer H feaa tet 2 | 


Wey VA TASTE Kea aS wary wa: 
ert Fear: wrata eet Sift Hegre Aaa | Vo | 
Tissy ora FY vex a a few 8 sia, wi a a aa HIG 
arsg Sat SR Toot F 1 sie oe afota qa S fernz ten Bara z | 
Ta RE GT, Sha, a sik var B Aa sae 
aah fate: wards YosTage: ware: 
TE TST afr Trg AY Wear Wa wafMar TATA | BW! 
_ fre wan at ae FM ere stat Ye S WT haar ST aA 
& 1 sat ver at ot st fait @ was a ut saree sa AE a 
sis 2a 3 1 Fae Fe wd sik oa Brat HreT Sta F | 
arofatart yeaqarn aatha a aft qarhraer: 
wreifta: HIcarahrea FTA Acaft FT ALAT 1 II 
geal et ade @ vv a V2 ara oat aH fea Fe aga a Bt ITA 
a yal ERI Sepe Bret UT & wa F araa F 1 eal @ Fa at art 
sifren Tet Ft 
eat Th He WaT Ag Weerhs ae SAeacasy | 
wre qty wa caty Pagar TF aA Pfeateseay | yee | 
ta (ura) faaia #1 gear @ frafad & am ae fea sie wT 
a Tat a fra 8 adt 2a Sa ay @ aaf Ham & i Ae, 7, 
faa anfe & a 4 ave fafex 3 sat wer 4H fora 3 | gaat wal 
wei wet at Set 3 | 


WA: HaHa Whos Taso 1 Ww 
Rea H aay Ta FE AWG A Ga H se Ge ay SR 
ws aa FW aM & avy el sea | ara: asl w a stat aa 2 
aa Hie & fae ee weit wea FI 
aa: wate Praag aaa FTAA Yay 1 
ua Od at Y frava fast sat ary Ta ATA 1 8V I 
dr waa sat B pra Sl A Hel BM F 1 a VAs wt YA 
Prerert & fae ae Ya Hel TT Were | wa Me & afer afay sia 
wm fag tae Taa art aH age sta ax 
| aeaqd waaeca wfa-<z feet fava wer 
ae WT sat Us Tod WATT VT afSaTs: 1 2Q I 
fag tet ait ace ufa age sia we Tet var fare ea a I 
arat or @ arfedt ace farg are sis ae St ae en, Tae fart 
aifaa Gea Ht at Ye THAT se, Herd SFA GEM wT aA eT Ta 
afer & wy A waa z | 
wed ferrfifaaia eft sifsdenics cee fret 1 
Tareas GaR Pera coat ant Freracerrary 1 23x 1 
gat afer dea fare & fat vet cease BI atat goo B 
TPT SUH eT tA FH aa F : 
ame fattnicatacata cais=a yer qer fert: TAT, 
Ara TAT RM wad Tarhrs Borate cre 1 Bau I 
sae wea F ard @ car fag & A & sis aH TH Va aa say 
am 2a F 1 wa gad ated & wa A waa 
Aaa Heal Terr EN EeaT Yas, Ui act Fare 
aft fadrarfe wearer yet aetdat arf (30) Woraesa: 1 2 I 
afe afer ¢ 8 afan ert & 1 sae a Aas ( aft & ST 
%) (2) fade afsa 8 arse at pn a sae are (2) fadta afee 
at at & yd creas St OT FL 30 S IPT WI WA Wea HW Tl | 
wa fattrfe wera Va fate ant firwerg wa: . 
arearate saa qa: fadta aaa et wails aetea 1 BR0 I 


Iv faara edo; 


asd area (3) Gad afes ar a-e4 dit Gea & aM wR asy 
@ wert H ale aga HA VE orm 21 W gad aia Wl Us we az 
ya: yet weer up & area ue dim deard feraa F 

PASAT WAT Tea: Ala WaT BT VATA WaT | Ie 1 

va wer da dead fear SA HK THT AM ASA A eta F sik 
We FH sma farg aH %& sin fea & 1 staaH & et afer siat at 
qech afer are sen cies sie WES St aE WA Hea @ sit de 
deaait sr An sere aa aw fea ea o 1 Tate afm fare ce 
wrsa & sie ware 4 U1 ae isa wATAST Sim BI 


wdia Varqed tag ger eat wt: Yada fe: 1 

OT AAeaeaaafearay ST WHS TAT TTLATAHA | IW It 

wa sia der & oa fear farg Ba F 1 Sarge FH sar St sin 
Ba E 1 Tr gooo V Ha OA SB saw UH oh sis HI VAT iat z 
den wae dt an 4 freem @, faa ea feast & | 


ante fafrerera ante ateasm Taran Waa WHE 1 ave | 
Wt Wa sie (Sea) B WHA BI TA AeA BI TT Her STAT 
& | Gea RW Vat Sam shay sig H a awl VAAN 1 Be sis & a 
ar amfe sie afk aa arr wen ax sik wa ante deat & at a sre 
aie ait da aife sia & aa aw 
SAAT Ft: TA: STATA, BVSAT Tats-eTT | 
wa Heat wr uftar aredadt at fatter ars: 1 awe t 
WhO TAT ETH TAT Se ae ae ea ee 
Tl FT St aM | 
aeey ot a vst H wiz wr th aan GE B FE VER ard wT 
arat Gos O ft ard St gaa Wh dem HT ot TAT | 


 Bvercaat eat Uff: BvSt TT Fa 
ate wa: cat at cfs Tay 1 BW? I 
dea F a acest H aga 8 aT wT 2 GIP a Toa Wea 
er Sty | Sas afer ahaa Wen a aa ae art snfe Wea 
wl Tt Sgt a Wt dea aw at sn arent | feet at dea wr at 


AEA BS Teeq aay . BBQ 


fread & fea otge ar oa frareit : sik aa a at fara | 
WS SOT FA FART -- 
are SARITA BATT BUA SAAT aT Faria 
at yaa, teh canes jo fea etaod fasta weg | WR | 
aw der wl foraat afer ae & sas sia we aa faa = 
saa art ace & 2 stat W ors fae S| Fam are fet um sis | 
wa af Tae ary SI sit we area fas 1 yh dean 4H aa ora fag 
aa aha (ari aes) HA eT a fra sis HIT He aT? 
sa sie wi are fear | sik HA Sl eA | cas sig BH aol a 8 
a IPN wt Ha S WAH aa sik Tas ae H yey oresq sis S 
am Si | . 
teen =e efrre Pett fet csr, weet 
wet rere ayes URedaea wa: Gal ye 
we BT We wae sia Be BTS TAN | He aot ah dhe A fees 
areisin @ Ton wrt stk sae a 8 AP wT AIST UE a Bera | 
WA: SH WI Fa TSS FA HA & A Bl Bea | Fa VHR AN HT 
Rw TT GeM w at Fa frHerm | 
Yaa, BATA TMH WT AIT 
Us etter Teh TART FETA: 1 Bey I 
Wasa deat ar aga fares & fee ges stage ot fara 
yet Slat &, SAT a ot VATA are Ve Ml a TAH aE} sis 
at S eran | Sa WS Vl SIM I 


a wrcrend ae Yo Hear fine age Yerayy: 
FEATEAS-AT FUT TH: Ge HAAS ATH ALI Wwe | 
ACSA Fo V sift SI W AT VS Hi fo A WM RL STERN 


SAT AA HeT (ego F AM) A Ga BMT | Yat PEAT 2o GV HH 
SW 


aarisaasy (30) feerrenyperaay fawn By: 
TRUS CY TST TTA thet SN Wray | Wo | 
AER ST YA SINT HI VT BL STH! YOR ATA AA 1 srw 
at qa use Wes et aT Sa a TT afeg ert Tan Wor He | 
TL AT WN caisaretor we: Wellfards EET EM TH: I 
yeraret faret (go) Pret fears: Tare SPSS TH: | We 1 


BRE fast edo 


a 


Tes Sa Pree SH PM sast sees eB aT SA wer a yA: 
SER @ Tr @ ae srey |PS |e SNM | YE STN BH Go PT. 
al FI Vp|e SK AT eA W ae fa em | 

qifed ated waa aETdniet Yor wT 

fen effet arert area Tera Wersfeat Racrag 1 W°e 1 

aige Fare a fafa 4 cea we at 1 Afra 4 atia stag 
en & Ser say & ar A dt AA Her | ufora ares fafa aears 
wan & wel wet 8 1 aret fates areas were cart aA aaa eS 


fearifeernit-seesfes wea warel wa ahawasr wale 
STeaAfe Waa cia whet ata sede wife 1 Eft 1 Wo | 
forara feat 8 ferar 2- we aga & aa A H wea Mer ater 
ad tat STA ag ara ¥ 1 Bheary set SB aratafes ot aa SF 
Wa wa ey a st we wa era FI 
. TUMesg de wrt wrats arefetew: 
Wass Ta aerraty AMAT Airs: 
Te: ta WH US cae Peg aah: 
YX we fat anit a: A TMAaTTSaTS Aa SATIS: 1 WEI 
ma, wer sik ehsat wt Pras & faa at no he | ste ae 
ara aife wast wl saa ef 1 aa a ata Sait fan, afer, sam, 
ay ait aft frae @ qu a aa & 1 eae are ot Anh WT Ta aA 
al Us aor ee fay oft at a ora | (sifeer aaa & faa cat ax 
ala @ ) set ay Ue aT ST aA Te Gaal HI Vest feo AA Fi a 
Fea st sore et faue & ae at | 
FIerel Tae TMA Het WAT 
at Tare Hit, afrastates 
frat ode surfed aerate 
AS Avatars (22) ASA: FT: WHT: | WI 
Ta War seta & utes ca oan 8 sas at az Ma BRI 
Tor sk fe H waa a atest St fren & faa fora faara 
eter Ff Ue area (deh Fe SISA) Aes VQ Ah WHT TAM EST | 


i = ee en - et 


Bila Ware: 
preface 
Pate aay 
aret ofa peat wfeda We Sra Ferd Shr 
Pad aifas afagorrad ara srp he: 
aot aA ay Hirahact sean HAT I eI 
TIT SO Hie H aS Se SN aa HI HIT CUS Bas cia (aH) 
Barat & | saat Aer Hae Set BT Fe 1 SaAH Vet HI oer urddt 
aA HIST & aae wa fea & ara at wet @ 1 ae dteraat NM ST 
a wa Ft fread 81 ae Aeraa & TG & wT FH feaa 3 1 TH 
wt wifes wr aaa fear aa arm feral aw SA GaHT SA Ae SAT HT 
at wy eT os ae F arenferen foram eI 
arare fafadt fret w2arfa wetita: 
free: oft USA HTS BTETATSA: 1-21 
wrel & at War 3-Prea a AAT | ead gay fet Het HT BT 
Se Sra Hl MT SM Se TAT SST A HTT 
fas Haag Het TT: AT TaAeaT 
ae, fa adaray adoar Amerfafr: 1 31 
Se eT fears HAH ST set UW Waa Wa ara te 
a BEAN VET areal ci at wrt A aaa a ST Ha F 
wet - ararfe & rary Sresarasat: Ue: | 
Wad, KATA, Walrad ACVAT: 1 1 
ea quot Hi wer 8- ana safe sik shit Gre wT Eb TAST 
arg vet erat | ae ast Wa Wa Hae Tas arec ot S ae aaa, 
adn, aaa Tet eet wt seat F 
W wa TF Gaht arqeatstt waz: 
Sead T Psd WT Ua Wed TT ef yt 
are ot ad WH We, areas sik viet FST ar at Wa 
Set TT VS AE Sl Sra BF (SaNT WTA) 
eafta-ashy SAT WET SHY AArat vata | 
wa: ered oars arfe dare wines qed eft: 1&1 


BRS faster adoy 


. wafa 4 8- et wae Sait -F sik we art F aaa Heat 
Baa ei ae wh & wat 8 stk serfs & 1 a eh RM Hea gfe 
at | 

Tet Be TAT Tae frafeg 
=a aaptat ata a at ae Treg ot eft 
wae, aa safe at wrat at eat argfe fora aA ANT. aT MT 
a set ara wot St ardt & 1 sat sreqa wt A em wT FI (SST 
ware) °° : 
Prforeara weeret aeeqfe der weary t 
gfa & Sead wee arirernar wiftar i ct 
afe carer Paper & at sae ey fers were BY Ged Fa WT 
ae A am afere ware A anarr & eek are eet & fawa 4 
a Het F ae Saya frat a wet B 1 
war fe arene warar- | 
freiteere srett st waiterea wtyar: 
Asaers Tse TETRA |< | 
aries vara % ea want B-faey ste A-SI UH BHT HTT Z| 
yaa aaa Bt wes sik Frere B 1 aot she Fa SI Saat BMT 
wet we aad, W apt UX HoT HA A fare a AK sey Hea F 
wan weet: sary Housel Haaiad: 
WY VEH AA ARE VE AAPA | to | 
MTT Gat SK WT a are, Haa aT Hosa B aha = | 
ae & Hest & wa A e Ae aT fea Eu si 
ATA STS PITA YT ATR HE AE: 
CATH BATT GET Ga: fHHT AAT | Ts Vyt 
STHT LI YMA HT WHT VI ATT B 1 TE VTA GI STH SK ST 
areal Waal A Gel Afea B 1 (SSR GAA) 
FIAT SF TTT TATA: 
garnet srateaxer afr ayfa: 1 23 1 
setters Fa WH Bret BT SA aE At aeet & fea ss WHT BT 
BT GR HA S 1 St: aH ste geo & span feat dt ea 8 sats 
SRT HS | 


qaceife asta, BS 


ean, wae sree aqata opfetr 
fa waToy ATare we taTarqal Aq: 1 231 
well fea sprete TARRT B Sy ret of Sort ge Bo aE FE 
% wer = aM wary 44 3A oh eT EL 
darfe-area: ore fasta Aaah wearer 
ate wad want agtresrn: war eft et 
. Seat wat ara A ws aT Ofe & fee wre & fara ( fea, are 
aife), Aaa we am <a fava Hl Tay at 
BATA feraHd Wret SRreaI Ade: 
frara ufeat qfet facta freréfa 1 yt 
ee en ee ee ee 
faara at ofe fate wet &, ten ara ctw ae 21 
FS, Whe Weary THT ARI: 
wart qasazal argaentsaarfefa: 1 xe | . 
a wl Seren aa a ae ea Ue HT Here | gfe B Sax 
Vera tH & Ta ara H ad wart staaqa @ 1 ears sraaa F-3T, 
we wera wat are warfare: | 
wraater fasrtisal dacat edits: 1 eo 1 
are wal sik fer onfe | od edt tase eet @ a &, Fa Ua 
ATH Waar wt 1 
areata aed waoey, fest qa | 
afer wr qeakee Hat WI ATMA ee 1 
ga faa de waeit (§ area) Hoe fen sik oa dia Haat A 
ee ee 
ern & 1 (sr ag aw arel nfs B) 
sad wie earfe fay ararTtATy 
a: Ware faseisraaaie WETS | ve 1 
fara aaa (at Are) ares gat oso anfe stare fas ART HAT 
31 sew ante wa Aa HEI Vr 2 
Aree utara ta warée Wert 
aa ute aitda areraseiea safe 1 Ro 1 
faa aaa Ht ATT a a fears feat ara sa ara wea Fw 


Yoo fas auuy 


a gfe sik a4 mI ATG eet aTe aR Ae 8 ees a Ue ny aq 
wa AGA ate AR Are det fea Ua 
frants cada waa soft 
Wa: W Head AE AE Wat BAF: 1 WI 
Ro TA 3o AMA WANT HT AG SA Al AAA HAM: aaa ak 
AA ATT HEATA F | 
wad GR Wea saa frgarsat: 
at at cet ap Got ax afaeare wat Rl 
ax ot afe sik aa } aga YS SK SMT va Sa BSA AD 
Gait or sua 2a sik fuged F ett 8 
wife a agar errant wat feet: 
wat pret fasreisd fate frepeqa qe: 1 231 
aer aa al Fea area Va Hl UH US Ser wT fra Was ert 
feara ern % sa fats wea | 
get aT ARatie Sreaharat Ae HT: 
oqeatet war wrebT Wa PAENT ATEAATT | YX I 
eat wert a4, qed onfe waa & aw ain 8 1 Weer wT fae 
at & 74 8 wr wast oqafa Aet wet BI 
FAST HAA aX Aes W ATaATA 
arrest aa: WK ara ta Fa wT WI 
wa wr Tear ¢ GER SH - aS, Aaa, aaa, seer, ak, 
ara, ta, ta sik are | 
ea ares fafa wher wafrefea: 
SATE AYA AAT AAT: 1 RG I 
way yes ois aaa A et A & oaaeER A ama &, araet AAa 
aife Hl SAS SAI ATE & SITAR SMT B | 
qt fr qa Gad Fs FETT 
wrat werfe sfraryerx At WET | BW! 
gx a gd az ae & a 8 oe a aes, ¢2 sie fray a 
FX Ba &, SaH UK A (2 fates) wea E 
he MMT ATT TITS Tat POT | 
Fafr Taa, WC BUTT (4) HES HOT AAT! VW | 


aacaate acy Yor 


ax a Ga SI ARK Us TT SA A UH ars ATS ela 2 | eae 
me HT Vat HSI-S | Va H yey aT wr fafa ae fata & ane am 
Al HUT HET S 
advarea vatfe qeareer frgiear: 
aX AAT TRA Aa GPAs: | WI 
an fagien-at ars a (fafa) & sre et fea aa zt 
watt a@fa at cat apt aihtares: 
Aer: ay, Rieter eat agarer FATT 1 Zo 1. 
qftara 4 fa ar asnfe aaa & ae as & Wa & aR fra 
wer afte one aret an ara fear rar @ 1 set ver fara aera FH 
Tat Gea sara FC 
seaete Ta ear: Yt fear wara- 
aeaa=aa sare ata wWreerht fererrzt 3e 1 
sey Brn %, set zara & sq aréeger aes wr ara Stat & tar 
Sree) ae as eee ee aed 
. wet fare sm ter 2 | 


ata ar wee area ae aire Ufeat sat 
aq Vafargaarar free aridasr ae 1 321 
arite otk Ufeoht Sai at pier arene gaa frat & are gia 
3a ST aT eK aie Ta ATS St iis Het TTT B, 


ag ant watsr acaft few wat 
are ftatisiauta diq aria antah: 1 az 
at afte sik anita wot & are: at sit dfeoh & aa 


arr ee Sa ard ge rei HY HTT aifvaa sit afta eat vet wer 
Bat & | 


went yd afer rae a whet 
efaet art-viteffe arate: urfrat wat: t 3x61 
ae stefan 8 wets are @ Wafer cage & san aifda 


atk untgitt srfe arat a arr eet & | ae aaa am sft ora: wea 
ZI 


YoR faara edo 
Ue: Tate HN AT Arad fer Wear 
* wafrarice aga wre feeafe 1 341 
aerat & ofas fem 4 us ae GT ae A fra waa om 
set aaa fer wea Bt sel, va one eat aH aq Ha FB 
aan st arg ot gat art S edt 2 
Area at afes ary: Hous Arar: 
Tred Her afer ard ahreatfe BPS 1 ag 1 : 
AAA ATT At SIA AT HET AT FEA (24,42, 00,00, 000, 00) a 1M 
BL HET AAA FEA (24,22, 2,29, 2,2,6, %,0000) B APT SAI wl He UPS, 
ak ad anfe erat 2 | 
waht Cae TET AKAMA BTC, 
WA aa wares aw ye aarft fei ao 
Usa Hel MI UH @, fe feet we a aaa & uH seq a gaz 
seq aH B BAA HSS We A aaa wt Arad fea Her ara 
AeA Wht TH AHHH AoTHrieta: (yz Eusic) 
wad Urat net TeTat wafer 1 Rc 1 
aerfa nfora FH aes we frre & fea cf at aeaqy uf awe 
“3 Goo He Bl et Beer: areaat fet wel wre & faa aA 
(REURIC) SAB 
wpeqaies we frat areadt fer 
wire a safe Yawrase Wes: 1 3e 1 
@ ape Galea % oe are Ht ape uraa fea wea % sik 
Srarord: sat wr aaa fea wa A oqaen fea ara @ | eel Brat 
feat & arqan aa ard, gan, art 4 fea worn, adafa siz arate 
ufa sie fear frat sro & | . 
Fa SAA APA ANT: WATE: 
ae astfa astec cater: afedifett: 1 vo | 
aera A @ wa anfe dae, qa ad, sfead mura 
org Ta Ta Safe AT STMT S| VAT Ged diem A fern & + 
ware unl aft aft: ah fet faerie 
faerat afes afat af reer fied: 1 ve 1 
af fat waa 4 uw sig aft exo & Ta oH GK fer Hea | 


tarceate ary YoR 


Fa WHT % 30 Tt feat er aH A ae StF  Ta VHT az aK 
aret et wae ak ad sar 2 | 
Ot APA Tet AHaedaaea: 
SATA PRAT FTAA AAT: | ¥II 
@k aA @ tarts, sr sik wa safe a Ue Bit @ | aa 
aig stent ar fea sik wa, an, Fae arfe wt aria of eet ae ATT 
a at 8 | 
faare ad qerfe aearcares: frat 
aratee frat: vafoaft terfersraa: | 31 
foarte, ad, Get HY, Were arfe ws, aa, ad, Tarte HT UTC, 
ad anf an ores fat feat 2a 8 ak oa a oft SM 2! Ceara: 
are a & Stat & Var fers wT 8) 
Ak-gererset (2g) A: velit Wea fey, 
waged Aaene fara arayg cfy eft xv 
ft fasra A-ger snes & ce sit aH UF Tet wR (Sag ce 
ak feat tH) ussite qa area are ela 8 | ae aT Ay a SIT 
atx tfa faecal (arferar fet 3,6,9,22) 4 TEA oe St SM B I (SECT 
ware erat zB ) 
aay: an faxisn cal faxisverey 
ee 8 OM fares fear: Wate: Bt 1 xh 
OT WT ST VW sie, AAT ST 2B sig, FAA HT eg sist AAT HAT 
wT 4 Ste A 
TraTay qaes vexfifa Taran | 
WSMITSIaT Wheel erate HA AHA: | ve 1 
Sq Arete ae sa @ otk A ta ce-ce aisit & aE USA S 
(Sarat) st sseitfa qa Hea ga ast ahs feat 4 ef 
Bret & 
ait wrerfe aca: waeat fararfrat 
arate ae afer abet aa wailed 1 ve | 
fara uc 4H fer at ae aferai (as sik gem) 4B cfe at dar 
~@ faga darha wea 2 1 aa ue F fea a ax feat (He BN THT) 
Sara HY HAT: afar sit Sat strat Maha HET STAT | 


Yow . Tae auuy 


Mt arerear Het fear uf aqeaT 
ort feooprel dat wae was: wathfar 1 we | 
oe oth arias Ufa & ata FY st are ufkrai (qh, ara, gy 
ait fete) & AH tar H wae S faeael data eet F 
Yas wa Ufa tie dara aera: 
yoy aeaeaa foird Canes tah WHA: 1 xe I 
TH Uf a sas forg Bt gad Ute ar snfe fare 81 se fag 
at tfa fare wy aftfa cost arr a daa a deh a anes ei 
@ 1 ta fra a cat ace ar sits fers va frg @ oA RT 
ta cary fay UL HL STAT S| TAA 3q cos (that fara care 3g 
HAT WL HA BI TAA) MA F | sla: HE 3B avs et Gaia a yo 
TAS 
. WaT awe UHhaway eferag aT: 
Tae Bae: MaTareer WHAT: 1 Go | 
a TaTiha A cara & ses a 33 avs St Weg wHrat B 1 efron 
arr FH aT 2e/go CVS AAT SATA HAM FH yes sat (2e/30) 
aft Qatar: Whe: WHATS ATPSST: , 
wernt aaa aa feararnfed ger uy t 
ATT YOU STA Sa S| Te UH UP a gad us A Gan wT 
waa @ 1 Gara aaa fea 4 ast S eM aa safe fear aren 2 
afararafeasirg Wart wa, Ut Te: 
aret EY cet Gos frefra waren fam 1 421 
uwfa & gata ¥ dara er a sae od fea & eer ars ae ofa 
gaz at Fo carha da a sme fea & ves ord FH youara ei 
et 
aaa eret frerar afey wedt feafe: 
aa arat: feareg foarte area 1 42 | 
ate amet ara ar cara ae @ cee stfies art fara fer a 
8 oe fea sat wae Gog are Bat Bo ste: Set aa Weg fet 
met asa 1 ser darth FH ga vant a fara wet ermB 
Tat array Yaierene Tet ATA 
ahear at ue fer earfert Yous TAT Gy | 


aacate aT You 


area aaa a eh arth tad A a a ad fea at fadrard sen 
saan (AR?) Para wa A VA S arrat fea HT Vals Woaanra Sa 
BI 7 
HE AHA WOU HE: HT ParHhtay 
eid wrearftt dart wate seas 1 uy | 
fea & tana et A ar fea fea oa are iT eae SC 
aa eK ot ar a fra ad wera Fras aEd wel crew FI 
Ter fara arent Fras carhrarfea: 
yaffearerfeasre aren: water atfsar: | ue | 
tera vd fea OA & ero wate ara. am, snfe & afar 
yaa anfas ds aca war @ 1 srfaa ats a aa dart @ 20 
VS UTA BX TAH Fo AVS Ae TH, FA VGN HP Eo CUS UH ZF | 
arated fate wat Areearententerat 
ale arerfe arty saree Hear freeht: 1 yo t 
fret UR Sats (30 Gt) Ste ATA Tay GAA SiRT FART HET 
Sa & 1 St SV siz FH cf wea B arava aM Pte wre ET 2 
POAT BEI aA A at fart A an faare anfe qe ard set at 
2 
faaradifa: qa: dart wrath: 
qe: VES MIATA TWAT 1 UC I 
a fara ae fre (Ges) a Gea area UH gfe wT BRA 
aM Stat & | SAH Ba Baer & faa aera aet 2 | 
at-aae at frye fare aaa, 
are fans ta eet aTATeTa: | eft 1 4g I 
wee et APH aT eR tare A SM oe rey a faga daria ae 
| sr daria a aK ofa Se S| areas Fens ae genfe fara wa 
Fe a avez ad (go sigt) WS sel VaR Baa HH aa Har safe 
© Mt ga a aca aft oe 1 ora: evar orevea ht ara 2 1 (a fara 
| & ATA) 
0 Wherratsrre ai: ferferafe ascererz: 
aaa Wea: Wrarsrereararad: | €o | 
5 TR saa S St St ara: eafa wat daha (are) @ at-at ak 
(A oe afta onfe dat agg ehh (gare am) eet we ETT ah 


Yok fara aig 
Seay FH 2-2 ara wt aati anfe 3 wqe ert | 
ae wsafamesrt wa AeA Tas: 
fornia Sera Wer qaeTATT: | ee I 
va at yea uid & san via wae & ay Ff qe gras fet 
at tea Het a Tete | 
coafaare afapreead TAT eviash Valsler ATA: 
SHaTSITH ATT CHAT (34g) AAA TF AT: 1 eR I 
are ad F (384x122) TAM aaa at F (3ugie) araa fea BaF | 
araarecet FT Vie Watad WATT! (3&0) 
T UST CUS VTFATA (3qR14) Saat TT: 1 ey 1 
aaa at F (agolo) amt ade at A (3eg14) aaa fea aa 
S1 
ANTES ATA: VHAATAT MT TTT I (364) 
farfate: (24) earfraiy (32) det: (32) 
fre (Rv) eoerfefiefry 1 Ex 
Se GF Bau eulaarizs aaa fer sa z | 
BAT TH Hfaers ara weed 1 
AE COS ATTA WTAS AF ATA: 1 (BRIG) 1 GY I 
PS AM VK TCT Sa Hl Aas ATA Hed S 1 Fa Aa S Areas 
ag (92 aaa arat H ) aaa fer Pear azoige Zz 
WP Wet Hresa Aa ATT ARAM I 
a gery fea ararie fraveda Para: 1 ee I 
Taraaya aie aq wean fray fet ass aed B, Ta He HT AT 
el Ba Be 1 Tax stem fea, ara anfe at wert Aet Bt 
ar area: fergie ae: Step: (3g0) WAT 
Mratere Ware ay aris Ta fe FEA: (20,832) | Go | 
UR ATS ATS H St faa Hr SSI HET Bra Bi TA WHT W ago 
feat or fagat erat @ 1 uw firgad F (20,638) yeas Tey SIS 
saat qeaaarat afta, 
ahreeeenia ferafifartarg 1 ee | 
zaarat six sragt ar aM aurea B, at Sam fer sie ua faatit 


aacenife ary Vos 


wae ea &, Leg sr Re Se hs ear ee ae 
at fs ere & | 
W Ste freraretiy (30) Teee: aq wat: 
WATE: ATYCU STA THT SA (2aVwe3I9) i 
a VaR ® Reo 2a (a sign feat wr feor af eto @ frat 
(2,32, ¥831%) rast fer Ba F 
Were the TPH: paien, TX afafa: (32R0¥o 00 00 00,000) 
ated wernt ad qtrered fearea: 1 0 | 
wen mr ad (38,0, ¥o 00, 00,00, 000) ax at a ® | wean & fer 
H at F Hel SI GH eI 
ATT It yours eftaeisferaxa: | 
TRTRTATY of FATearsiies WATT | wt I 
eitasr 4 aq or at sem aa fen at @ ae a wt fa a eT 
fraren S1 wad @ | wie aaa & ofa waa & are A Ta sei fara 
we! . 
aa eta y-feorted TM PHAN AA: SPAT, 
HET SM YT Aa: TH TAT 1 ORI 
BALAN WRIT BH srqaK -%o feoa ael HT Aq HI UH stents Sat 
@ | Xo HY SANT HT AA He Wat ETAT | 
welt aurs: wera’ ce: 1 03 1 
AA & go vail ST AA ATE, WR Aq Aa Bl Aq BY UH Hq ert 
e-tar wer eet frit X wer F 
areenth defer site carty ety 
1 Ufas frarerel. sper Spee Aaa: 1 ww 1 
fee otk card anf 3 ore ver a are faa @ | ofa a ga 
WER wt Sea sae a atts er & ort faare srfe F arr Wis 
wt orate Get Tet Het a eT BI 


PRTATANY Welearasrengqey: 
_ Traqte fra: sarfacecareefaar 1 wt 1 
ER ft sry Herarn 1 Ut SR Hoa s | sta: THT anfe 
feat ar art dt aaa ee 1 aed ae faa dre aet OA & ort 


“od fasra ety 
ge fasa 4 adi frat eT SI 

MAMAS ANT cet Bid Tals saTsaSsTaaT 

PNAS MAHA VAT ST TATA Free: 

Srna frat: Fao MATA Act ATATH GaTE WAT WE | 

aK wT Mears Ge H GAA en & ae Ws feet a wearer 

da & am facta fen wr sue am ora A tem 2&1 orm ad & 
aay geal & cin Saaz, fe ax a Bet a a Taal Ser 
aedt ordi & 1 cat fen A (ae at & free) a Oa aT eT 
ded! & 1 eM ax Bsa Ww ted are fier ft Ufa a) US aa aw 
uf fee at ufa 2a ura & ? 


| wer were ae Seat antea aa: 
HN: AAfa Whe caahtd Wg, FU A 1 ww | 
Aa BN AG, WR, AAA Sa, Wheel Ale Baa, VX HI SIM 
aan, aaa atk Area & aaa gaa, frre, warge, Has, 
eet atk GA & WAM Hrarat aT SA ATS HON TTT Wan St 
ara aro sett Ae Tor a AE ST 
Wepaaaad JTS Ht WET 
oft aairen wat whrashafarS 
feera edu surfed area are 
Rifas: What Bre Fa: WHT: 1 9d | 
wa wan sera & wise cs oar Feat SRST SIT AT 
ai ef 4% waa am areal & ar & fea fea faa oir F 
areal aorta Beare 22 ai WHT GAM SST | 


SPE Se 


Tet wa ay 


at ANT ar wel wasn Torta: stad avfarear 
aren feraryeett wamatiger aaaq TerTe: 
Ol axel ayer fe a OMT at Kasra Banta 
TAT BOM Tat Area WH Tara avitraisafa-s: 1 1 
area, wen ste fra srr yfsra Tet a ays cesftafa at wer cer 
yet areit ¥ faega avis & 1 ae ak dan a Ser A at aad g, 
yaa wee set BI 
aat and 8 Te ares sera Bete fee ate wt Bae 
WR Tae Tar aT WoT aha set F Sa USHA TE set wed FI 
aa: faye aT & are ateraat ara aff sna wT aed ast 
avis wet fear ra & 1 oT arn SA wre att Wit ar wet 
wet et ama | 
THAT 
waaa Ufad fooraa faaes, fraaret at 
War warfearar eeara Yat erat fafaat: 
eae: Terarfed frastat tad: aid reat: 
aeatearat: ereraf frac cat acre: TaTcHtearet: FQ 
fara 23 4 aaa Aa atger ar wk den ufaa aa &, frase 
sigred F orrp uda & wei tame & afatt H ger craw waa FZ, 
wei tat Saat sar say whet H fers Sent. al at Tz ue wa 
eerfta ea 8, Set ecm ead wre St AT ST ai WY ATT aT 
Rae 8 1 ae seme 2a afer H et HT are wR 


wearer area aft aaa ator aaa frot 

ateeray yfuea qaqa ay catitr frdfeearar 

WE en fanfsa at WT BraaaT Fas 

dg: wre: werat wafe wftas: weeerer GsTT 1 3 I 

wei & fraret arava SA ut at eat A ae ner sik Ga at 

er are fay at ate chad | Fay stare A ya at Sra fafaa 
ak aS weet H aster Hes Sra ara Hea Z, ae sits 2a ea aA 
are & fasara @ atk ay ay a Te A HF 


¥Yo  Farera eduy 


. Weare att Arete 
AMMA HE AeA Tess Wreaa 
fire aterafeeter war Areag et ATP: 
AAT Wat ave wafea afer ofa cay what 
pata wit ws wete tfrefa: arp: aright 1 x i 
wei sretea Sart sik SAH TA Gait & ust wt orn a wet & arg 
I HE Tet Sa | Het FH AY vrenet st iT ere ua B srfers ¥ 
wei Sawn sea var ufsat St arate Ex HUA e | 
Pra UH WH Wes SLA BIA VAS B, Te a Via} Ar fea 
qearay aa & aei e4 cit a Frater six ena Bt 
Tare: wfarad qed warheas Gera 
farent dagen aWfagft Ea: tet Wetesa: ey: 
ear carte tarry afer oe: iat Area: 
pata wate atat wafass faa area qa qth: 1 41 
ae af oa 8 san aed aa Boor da Ae ah a A 
aqeat @ tae wey feast aed &, wei uw sas SG F feafa Zar 
SATA WY] al Sead ted &, Ta GF sera aelt sik Aram an 
a Sart Faas 94 SAT SARI Ae HT | 
‘gare fae fraferafertecre freer 
Rar: pute wera frecpe: watt aq atts: 
Weert Farad: Was Taal Teter yerar 
a oft watendt fang wat Hae Aaa 1g I 
faa secatt at afea fat act A saavifea %, faa aaa 
afacre (vdd a Se Af) wal wala &, faaat difeat a Faq 
zea %, fraat dts @ cm ofea at sa @, frat oreie ade wa 
aeft %, fraat ae gfe a1 fea cer usin wea %, aa feraait gt 
ede ener, 


sc cennieee ee 
atearecagn drizat ferfa aid wead at wat 
awe erent east gist appar asta 
Wrarsra wares sata wfsat farthest 10 i 
st somie & Sa Arex wt ate a ufsanr aaah vara eat 
Sweat Set 8 dasa geo Sougqa & fax w fea eu ae & 


Gears ea aiz BRL 


ud et sire at At se gare at vinn cated wed & 1 ST ort cit 
A AAAI Uisa HA are aaa a ar wl aa 2a F a Gan wg 
WR ah st wet St eaHTaS ex aw WIA Ge HY | 
TaTsT CUS 
Weert evsaity wergyi cvse: Hyevs: 
Wert Seed Tea att fey facrav|s anivs fara: 
wasaararaiag fae free seer is: 
Waele erect waa: Peart | 
aa & ue Gay aH cat HI evs ta B, vas at Hed nfs a 
WT Vat ys fora wr Tag wa wea &, a sifa aeita ara a feernz 
Brat ex & cit Hr eer fect Gen Ter @, St APet HT ST BH GAA 
%, ae varHrevs Ba sissy Vast Bu & aq wl a RI 
. am 
Uh TAs Was wed Seay weed fama ott 
wT Wate wa fara ates wet: Bets wat 3: 
Tag Uae trsraht uftage: sreqat WET <I 
fare ae TST HI Aw HU faa Tre S IRR FH amd We Fa 
aX He STN TN Taw ae ot sfapa wed sik staf wer, at 
aetiafa amar & agi wa Ff faeas & ae afer & Su wap 


TS ae sey cee aA aA feat & ga sik awe aw Tt WE 
AS RL I 


SAT 
Pt: TANT We faray HAT: TTA 
a Waar wa vafaqe Pred Hrat WaT 
wraged fr: sre us afrerdee ex HAT | yo 1 
ae & ara fer caot pes St afer HI Hae &, SH fase saa 
a AT ET FAM Ta W arts VER *® faa wT EUS, ae Waertt 
Ter Hera UZ Tet are wT atreh ex HAT S| STANT APA BH ETH 
& os Fea cat & Va tea H a ae afer HI Gel & GA 


ham & | ae SAR wes H CS Bye HT ae Her & fee Gal farses 
a 


BRR . frend edo 
> , aaa AST 
We aver Stren waa aia Aira Meat 
Ware ytiag aaa: addlaes a 
aTersieait {ETE uly aq: wfeqeaaar fad: 
sear we fet aerate age wre APE TEA ee 
area wast & ara sitaen Ast aS Gos F Gla BF WM aM 
afer wet eek HT Hae S| TAH Ce ain (stiae) F qa exxe = 


“RR TEV Gee Seay Tes ett Se eee a rah Fee net ae eT. 
ATE GX | 


sfe ige wigs ay: AE as Petar 
fe ee aha I 
WrTe ae aT HVS Vl SAM HeyE witsey set Hr srest yaHTT 
Ae at 21 ga avs & are fest F aa wd fennit wi ae Har 
fay ae fae eae Sw sifea chaa @ 1 afer @ A 1s sh fee a 
Wa @ FH Was se Tat agers cram ZF | 
é afar 
wager eqifadt at wae Wat at 
Weert Tea MOTTA ATHATA TS ATA: | 
ait uniste ois Ge: tea: 
Wrarexstrat Teyerg fare ge: caret after Wee 1 23 
aaer segeta & at Usnsit we sila & ees & wT A Say a 
a sverd Ha Fe Ware saa oH ose Se sash wT WF 
O ert TST Es S| AE WATE ASIA SATS aM gaat ars ot 
ain oaen at wifes ea Feat Fae oT a Aft waa srqerita 
atk cxiet a) Sr SF aren & | 


Wren BeNet WaT wae Ele AEE 
Ware afedisrega APTAA AST WIT Te: 
AMT SRAM: ST aTat: PR cratisw: . 
qx garfrusraa suatst cagatestor a: 1 ex | 


gears era avy BRB 


vee a uri & dra at ufe gar we oat a dat & | sae 
HK Ble-Se eq ware Fi sta AA faa ak gear & 1 Ahax 
at crant wae, wean anfe sri staan, fee sik ere afi wat 
ee 81 ars ate & a ga Bex SB eH cit aT GE aoT 
wile area ant frat gaat sath ETAT 
fata execradtft fraqapren, aaaarent faerary 
wid frerhtae yeaa faad sft soraiearet 
are qosqsare qa Aaa TAEMAA WATT 1 WH I 
geal off sera at at dist ar 8 afer sik oeHval & ae 
saa oat Ft APS Ges & A (ordt & Sad am-walta) aA 
ey ate frat & age sre Ger chad 1 ahax & tierra cara 
wl Sa HL TA UG ae era F 1 arava B feaa aa Oe ae ( Ahet 
are free were, aaa sik are &) See are fase Fa eeT | 
was ae se Hs @ Bet & faene a 4 fee cm aaa F 1 
Fam qos 2 | 


tert weer anit aaa aft ree arg evs: wave: 


=a: wre STATE asa He qa ater TarT 1 xg I 
ARE wr Heua]! Gorrarer Ff oft ae Tet ere & she ast vaER & 
Urat st ATS SIA S| WS Berar * de w srafead @ 1 ae afr 
WA a, we snfe wl wre St VE aa wt as A we wz aE 
wT Fat WaT A arett ya cvs wet mest @ qiga as Bw cal wT 
wea daum eas 


Wea seTet aed farraaret fret Fact da gee: 1 vst 


ae oe at an aa a at wa 
Wa a Aw St sr &, fra ear S dan (fsa) wax FH wet ae 
Wea %, SV Ramet & vy sik aa wd wer & fad aal avai BaF 
aa ST qast, gal, Asa, Ta SI quar } are wT aa za 
ward ta FV 


“46 TaSra ety 


ad Tre un ufaa quits xem areig, Hare 
» faze frebviart aeqitfege: afrt farraae: 
We TT WA Tara TY aisaayareara: 
Tarcaatstt arat vaft qaqa: shea: Gs Aart: 1 2c 1 
fram shit @ son & sro wz stk wa anfe wa A ma Fe, 

frat Se eer 8 afsat a ae waa az fara et Birr (geax 
at gear 8) can @ | frase straa wy so, Saha FH ese ae 
(38) St wart 3, fara are anfe set wea za wa & sik at a 
wht & xe dar feera @, 3 cette aaa fres aa wat 8 ward 
Ta at | 


oaproreyaca caatihia fra ont qq ore wr: 
were feoafesissafee A AETATS SE: TAT S SAT! 2s 1 
TAT TSR BA H HRT frat ft orp seq S Tear (SIAM) 
at Sa wa, aha a vaet HT aes He A feat or ety erm 2 | 
ae ant & dia fora & 1 TS at oa ae seae oat H ay 
 streq wat wm fear & fea feos fee (aide) wr wo ar feat 
1 wet crest BIH eat tent we | 
‘ unran wdtofadt ax werareat: erefarer 
Wad orare wrerftit fage ay: weg waleara: 
yet ia wert want satrae west ATTA: 
unditerat qrareated wird GAT wT UAT 1 Ro | 
ays fear ecuga at fern 4 sa cael wed ee qa afar 4 
te (cat feetas) we farses Ferra SITS St skal Gaal HAT 
war Fo set ya vad & oT tt fea a 1 softae saat 
eqia wea & 1 ae set Ht Gar Se 2a S | ata: AW Sa aaah wr tt 
SEIT HT | 
ae ff TTT Bat VAX ATT - 
aedtg arag arya APreets arfatet gate 
wert canta: watery WTA SAAT 
rare stay qutatid aqet: wearasreware: 
PUTT Wet cle: Hoag wre defae wat MT 1 AVI 
se cet aft S ae aa at cestt ar frat 8 1 aaa aT 


gears ea anit ; SW 


(ara) aT SE SATA BL ATT HT a AR 2 SH atga H qos Fs 
amar A Ae Hee sife vers SI ary fear a, a aa we alel 
wont eqs A it anor fea € 1 ee aH Gwen & fe ada Cag) 
ar sista Her A faa m-ayAR A at ast S tar & faa ata (AarH) 
at atsa fear at fay a thm at safe (ze a eh), Vax Ati 
ficrdt %, ara: Sat tim & cart & 1) wars ® areal & via, va snfe 
& at age 82 Ole & ora 8 8 St yaa a aacenfad ara 
Bia an diets wm 21 8 Set ca wh & faz qa (ae) at 
faa Hr I 

_ Warargenhh epeft a fafas do vitrqartt 

arta vara sitar yefat gos argarhr- 

VATS ara fetts arfora cae: Pisey MA Harfsa: 1 II 

fara et a sea Sa ee a otk ws fat & GAB 1 (MOT 
Aa Tet Areal S) | WAR A ot St sea BA AH Tas Aa wa Araa 
1 frase are, sn, te stk & ante vets diet & aa @ (Gor 
apn, * sufe faa sata eet & aa fase &) wax & dla sae 
anit wart amet faa & | fatal warser viet & (Per sik BA 
at aa &) BY sae Hose aT fea F (HO H Hose HI sas 
Feat Sat & 1 BAR & alae wet aH Wye 8), feraan fede aganc 
wart asreat F (HOT aH afer fede or Ast sifta B war B, Bq 
wl asara saw aft Ga @), feraart alert & Waa avez 2@ 
Spey & atte aber GA STATA aw S, VAX HT VaR aR ate B- 
We & was wl ae)- 3 ST aR (ST sit aa) ead wa 
fora farsrart te | 
FAVS UA 

fare ae at et aq an frorema eieraest 

We ft qaqa cea At fa Carta: Geta, 

frei feat age qr see Ara ate 

We Teo sree yor Tara faxanat Bis: 1 231 

wes & ai we at ee HoT cl ae wavs B AG at 

Re HoT a LATA F | HATS (STS) HF VA HT SH CaS As 
1 wees H wen e wa cra He areal wr Ft wa 
a Oat asa wanes & fevacra at ave fray tacit Et, titer atk 


WRG : fasra equ 


aq & | genes a ae qaving &, por dt ek A Gaol aaa 
dfaren vet 3) ca VaR wees GAM St Tas at SAT BW az | 


at ora er Fert aTeTy, - 
ge wt gfe ginias qa mie Ae Afewaray 
qarx sere ae At sraet qa Ga: 
q ae pire ater fa acHacit whe eee 
WAS We Mera: Tae: 1 WX I 
per ga (Ufa) & oye 1 fea qa fesrat & | per afr anf 
fagfrat & x0 %, fear yfa (sea a aha) & stata eae | HET 
aan & aren ee wa (seria) sr are HA A WAT Veit S 1 fea 
qfa @ fara ware aot at amt wi a fersera & 1 Her wears 
(Arearaa) az dre eae UTA AHS BT A fausan € 1 fea ada 
Te (HAM W Sy AHS UAT Ae ay FHA S 1 POT HI aen| 
US OE WAM sad @, Pera Tee HW AVS SRN HOT SF |} 
qua % were % sere qurax & aver wai 81 fer gaa we oneg F 
por ar oes Tryst & faa afta aan @ fra a eas Wa cat ST 
edt & are wh gan) per aha wk aot ar ae Hedt & said wre 
%, faa me 8) a Set afta at ofa wy 


sft 7 areTy. 


waterear fama aH aging fread By 
We cee Saargae afea frertta wafer 
wat gers ten fisat at ea, THAT 
at Tory adel Fray shea tha: HHA ATT | Wt 
. cet ofa. fay & feared ag ef are ceiafa sre eat 
Ta SE ae crest HI Hist & fare say MAT VW AAMT aA St POT 
Baer sq (Pra) frsam 8 1 St Aes AR Ga CMa E I Sif 
Sa wey oeq fecoaanierg at ary & faa Se wat onfe at wf 
feart a1 ay ter wr aA RR Cami A Tas uta at at 1a ev 
WAS TA ATA aa wit B ys | TAH = wre Aeract 8 ae 
(arate) 4 gfe gat zt 
the ea oa a ae Ri 
SIT AMT Srl Hl Ara F | avs sife Seat B aM SUA H VAS SH 
TAT WT a 1 Sax via Sia sat HF SRN Sah aM 3i7-F feaa 
eit 21 afer ax 8 saa (frat ST) Few VT aT FST 


gears era aula BRS 


ara Sar 8 1 WY Wea ae F fae cama A wast ae at at 
farat wie & ae AR TT | 


ary Sat aT 
sre rss ohare wari fret cett 
cet Sar gary eps Tran: Waifs afsarhe: | 
wares qftaerars ve: area arr fara 
faere tyet ter fea wae wafaae ferfet: 1 2e 1 
eer vat A are - sper want quifa qx Hl | Saw Ate WR 
Garay Sa WI 8 | Saw Teatt, fa sk Ys GM HA SF 1 TAR 
ara 2am OT Sra S| Ua Sas Vt St ear Het S 1 aa 
Hl AMA El SH F cat TM gars AAS 1 A Ya STS NW AAG 
HY onm & 1 ster feafa afosa cm ot ana uaa z 
aera vet A stef- areal wat Arar qx Ht | SAH saa WK 
R YF aa wa ele | fay a ae snga Fae Tet} fs Ga 
aca wm sifta Fe Sat SET ea aA | Te AT HT SATA 
RR wa Sd F 1 Yat ee V a Wan 4 orm zo ufved a 
saat fea & a Fa aaa F | 
TET ATA- 


eeata Tart at aft free qderafratercrat 

ScHarart ey FAQ RT TTS THT TANT 

TetsfrarerHenerd Tey ears cats arat 

eq: ft urddt am fate fracas: cattaniaget: 1 2 | 

poy anfeedt A yer (sex at ars) %, Wr cams F wer ws 

So por sy cas aya wt year fea ot were 3 ot aga aT 
aed wfaare @ Tat a wa a fra A We TH TTS AF | HOT SR 
Bx fora A fora & afer wea St wore ft fra & afer wea S 1 SA 
& Be A HAA Sl GST TA Bane ) Seat Hr ae ett, aed, area 
aik gen tara & 1 Sai ea aferen Sh sree + AE RT 


wifes we: wafer Sra: Wy Tata | Re I 


Be ; faera aduy 


— er are S ead wan at | Gs ore Sat & cart F 1 Ho ay 
ff orn & wa arf 8 pen aT ser aT eh Bas CaF ga 
aad a gn ara Fer & ara F Her Mra et 8 ee fw 
(afin) & era fac arte 1 HoT aaasa wes MW aA Fay 
amt ft aaaa (stem) are Te A a S SET Taal (Gre ay 
AT HLA So A wet (SPaHR) BH AT HWA St SAAT (Be a) 
at tie H pen fas aa f 1 Get sad sara 8 frac aed F | 
art Hat war ar ast B 1 Sat anferett at Ge 2 F (afar Hon 
at we uch, arferdt aya ga at git) SS Sat a eta 
we E 


Aae ATA 


We aT aH We agate att eae Ae 

ta: catgranifed ar oT: aeafacar waar 

att qi watt waa war Trad Ahaag 

SHAT VPAISSMTAA F TATA STH FAVAMETAT 1 2e 1 

aor ste ga ait wears 2A are & (HOT H aria, ere te anfe 

Ud & GAA SAS Cras, Baw BI Haas, aN wa A sas aM HI 
amas Sat 2 1 at fect aS va fan %) | eer sik wR Mt ars 
qos F 1 pe sat eT (Gest ST SS AA ava) &, tint ot 
sats (geaft) & ot Spor ae aah S, qu, Hae ga S| peared 
Tee ten qt ae sen at Arta S| | eat a yaa z, 
gente dt sae ye H afd 81 Her gfe Prat (fa) a afar ar 
fara & 1 awe dt ofa (cafam) @ 1 afr tt ye area & 1 em aT 
fret eo atte 8 ae Aen HT wed fara ve TE H Fei FST ST 
wea | gor ara (da) cit & aq & Hy ot ae ar afeafa z | 
ei Se ee ee eran 


wags a<aT 


ata Gene frat feat tet Ta Talt- 
Warenrer was pe Tat fas eae Va aH 
alfe wigs Wes wRe WT ae: Aft caraait 
stag ms treat what aq PTT SAH Rot 
% sfainferce Sy wore area Yt Reravait Be fare sa. ait GCA 
wa & faa gee %, W sae ype w aa Sa vara wit @ arr 
wre wanferr a aa @ 1 sae Tat SY wR BAM sHacM B sca 


p geste est ata BRR 


jam SPOER HS sre Fi aS wees set H pit} vere Fs 
gat Gon Set  srerae Ht aca Sb Tae eae Ate HHT Sra Tar 
‘2 an det & arr a yet eI 

AT TMTAA Rift Ararat 


Arise 3cret shea wi ata TMaratest 
ad aetad aratice Yrerert wWele Be: 
aeranra ara safad aqreskt garfererit- 
TAH ATTA FAQ BX YLEHTE UTA AA 1 3k I 
Hr saa od ara aA avai (afes, ef atk atta) S eat 
za at | fame sen & ar a HA BW A aa FH tl ad fod 
cea | Set ater wa yest 4 fee wie cen geet Gerad } var 
& faa saan fern a | Ser Sat & Tar & fra eRarat HI ae 
fan ot ae SX oT eg sit SK oT saat Fagot ot gon ae 
| “aataane 


nan 


Sriomaatrmaiaag TH wat w-after4g- 
= qftaramm weer afea serge avefa ales: 
Gearon wierd Tet Cat fret carhrata- 
sadey: Where @ vat aqenst Fars: 1 3z I 
aed wot ott STATS SARI Stel Ex HL | AAR es &H fara TAHT 
fama vis @ ae we & Ast Pst S saat hs at Gael = 
2A a ge gan | data &O @ fre der eT HT sts fire 
et (stat de we) Tet wer afta gfe are crit wr aha at feaz 
@dt 21 ge Gtaar eon Parent @ aE es 8 Aa ak svat wT 
zie. fat, gat var ait a sa wae are Ser wt wie faa | 
wlea-alet Site caete weret ara TaAcIaaT. 
WAS Get was fefrae gage qe: 
wares Verigien ehtear wafers: 
AN aera te Hq fraser Wawra: fa: 71 331 
ante A wae ai te fafa & gers ga feromag Ba qa HAR 
at fan dfoad & et was A are & aaa aaa cit ae eat ar Aa 
. 8 za fan asa aa wen Ss safe 3 saat EMT at at 1 ae 
. Sarat eqfa wea Bae ae Aa st sera Fb ATE SE TAT SANT 


¥%o feera ody 
ATT HX I 
afreraant 

a Wa fuel vaq waetiseaaed Fe 

wéfagted-e: Wes Waa eas aT AAPST 

HAT CA Veorafa TUTE AA: H UTS 

a wadarranda qaret cercaettearayn: | ax | 

Wart & (ST yey %) Aree Afete TATA Bits Wa AAS a are 

wl | Tah Geese KR aes e 1 aA wel wt afa a He a ast ae 
Wa @ 1 ten fecoqenferg & eore SH aa a ae @ frewcrean 
we TAH Tal Fa aT a | Ta aA Saal MR ABT Vera area 
aa 8 ot fas sez eft | 


aad warfe aoa: wae ar gt are wafers: 1 34 I 
ar ar ear fave aye BAe Ht | Sat fea srfe tara 
War Ha Fj SAH VV Hae Ah Fret 1 ain Hz oa SST 
fay sa art wa fer of Rens (afa) St apt aeafe (ea 
W) Gat Te areat Aa wit @ aaa, ares (earh) atk yedl-aaat 
mre auf ae feat er | 
WERT AAT 
WE: AIT Welt Hs WH Ysa HrsdsT: Hare: 
MaAHvsaant: Hat WISE Ve vB: 
faery wivat amiss Aaerer A AT Zest 
Xs: Herta fre agg wy qat Ata Hoof fre: t 3 
Mae & A, waa H ys sadK sik fasy H sigr~eq aya 
wad AHvSTaAA H BT A ear HE ax Ht | ae Ale Hus Hered H 
ae stk ant att asit & ater wet erfeat & fet fee & ws 
Tet a) set fect & arard ast Ft ar sre ae geal & 
Tse a aat wt ae wre firm 4 Har Hfoea set gar | 


| gears era avis BR 
ia 


Te: VaTaTeTaTAT Wasa Braet ater ast 

da: Wan fear ae afer versifa sitet Fa: 

esata HUST Waa Tay CvsHENvY at 

edt arte at aca frat wren yet 1 3 | 

wa wa Ata eae wa sik Wl at He ys eas ea 
sind x al | stat sta waa FH WA Bet S| Gan ® feaat 
are & fora (Sart & fora) Ferarm & waa & | Tia fea aay 
al dt west A ats at ats feat a | cusaencg F fram ae aa 
@ Aa Bera Al Wert Se sa Tay a we eK feat at a 
aeal ait are tea e 
TATA AAT 


at sifresteara frreretrerstey Sa Ta: 

we: Wafers sreneergiiiar ett Aa: 

Tersicas wire vege qt aeag fast 

gare ies ay sar Tahae ay PY A ae 
| WaT, ARTA SARI FAN WA a wt | ae wits gin H az 
% TAM Vaal @, swat Ue (ATM) & VR (Ga) BI A fawara 
@ i sae ek at aaa aha Hers oda @ ot otfw B1 saat aia 
AT Te aT @, ate sk faa oF & aro seq area TI 
“Se aa chadt & 1 ae Fe age & aa a ET wT Paes eT 2 
aa wea S aryso @ ahaa F 1 We H wT i ae W dar wT oM 
fan ae & at ea 2 

Tarra 

TAHA Tater fag yfaeder yearend 

wer: wratfetrer fata fafed aar ara fae ate: 

cere Sar fart ra alt Teerey TaTPeaY 

arearsearen gat rarest at fart att: 1 3¢ 1 

War TEs Seay eat ahs a aes | ANG Set (fia 

of teas) Far a a ot a chet & aa 2 | face aqR a TER 
& faa =e segs ad art sara) wer aten 8 cia wear anit eet 
We Bie Ser Sew aa wat A agyeit at gen at ee wT a fT 
1 ag 8 agit at gen at gen 8 at Ht dee ae FTE one 


¥2 Tosa ado 


agai a aaa oe & ae ufefea fern | 
Bich saa 
Pfeil qarara att ae aa aem forehaart 
Wet UL A AAC AAR HL FS AVS Wave: 
TATIRTA FRET TM rated xiforroy 
w-raram Fiferg eal MeafaedeHeay | ¥o | 
WAT St HieH saa ST SARI aa wi | gfa, TH sik Ag 
a WI es arr 8 ess rad afew 1 wees eT | TAH eK 
& oat am a ast freer (qe ak aig @ af) i aa wet F 
et aan (ataTa) ga wl alfa wer SUM | TAH AH ST aa 
WaT sea Ht fs @ geal wareft St seh sie Seat Hr WER eM | 
Tae Fars ofa B eas a SH SAT 


Ware eat 
es rie 


HOT FO FATS: aagyafrat cepa frepts 1 vet 
ara srva & Sua & FAA acer & aferTe to TATE, oa 
SAAR Bll 32 sta Wert fHa ae sragaaa A ux sit ot atarax 
aa € 1 Ateraiet & VAM Vas AST ATS SASH AM ST HTT OST HAA 
& TAY em stat sizit B fahrsy strane Ga Ft at HOT siren STH 
fara WAR AM AAS SH Sey Sl cea HA usa B, Jaa Tan 
Hr I 


ar ate Mead Haga waa a Heat Baca 

fara frearaat: afro yfaat: afer: ung: 

aren frenay a arate fate fret de setsaardt 

Fren arftt eprq ax feq: WIsaAAt: Welt: 1 ¥I I 

st por aaa, qa, qe ae ahr ar aa & | SS BOT 

aa F epa, Aa de a A a ters wt sre avis cara snfe 
aefa oea ot at ae 21 api aet qaft ft anna wa A ages TAA 
Aearaa ara 4 fas erat wet St Wo AAS 


asat ada quisatad frit <t Sardtets oped: 
UAH UYATSUSCAY Taqay WTATNT is: | 


Geary era aut ¥23 
Preapaisnoar wet mer fraat anettsdte aar 
age, Waffarret: Sptq safe 7 faa fia: 1 ve 
Tt wit waa sik wn 8 wt ae oa SF aw oft Atel fie at 
wer 4 fae & wa 4 wea Bae BA a ot ae ai ae Wes ante 
(SR BY aT ST S| ae Sta GI SA Ot Tas shay sera cis 
(¥ Yaa) Bi ae wet stk Aa SRI Hew A are st fpr sy a 


es 8 aeeies een ee ee 
Aq A Tel warty Te | 


angitat got: fafa wer oft aici ater: 

At getters Vo HAT Net AH YS, Ao UTA: 

qadba ab fear Promise ware aft: 

adorn wren F sagq Wary we gfe fet: 1 vw 

aor iq fayfa @ oot sik a sia H aS ze | ae Udo, 

UAT Aa rites are S 1 Galt, Yat aan cen anfe efaai wer 
saat war aedt % 1 fe qorsd F after cen aps wa A via, ae, 
Ter siz va are fey ue | ae-Sy, Ha, sim sik af at 23H 
aa @ 1 adt sire off wera aa ead afa at | 


THT WATS WAGiey GASH PHT: PHRTF 
Rat Wat Me HAGA TAL MATL SAAT: 
Tay wa Ute ufos cof cette 
ara gard ate: a sae staat yet Sas: 1 wy 
por wales were (HPay) A farsa F 1 ae ag wht aH 
aa & pare & faa ae F 1 AAet aa A sq ae Gfacdt ar 
ste Se sat feat at Ae AA USA HLF ATS Ta WAR 
fear arearaa aft & arta wa 8 aet Qaas sta dart 
aint wt arf = i 
aaredt feared ere cate: Seats Hert 
awa Setes et shreds Freie HAT: 
pearard fieitet wart afer HI Brees Be: 
SOT: BeTT at sag wfa Heienthtarry wre 1 et 
Sor ae wl Ay ae, BA MT an Care WeAy aa, Ha F 
witst eet A a aa aa Heil A A vse Ma Ft ae Hiergqn 
Hl UG Sie Sal SX HL Tet We Cay HLA ATS (Ha) F 1 Hea Hara 
Rae weet fear art aft arr (at arena x Su 4) aa a 


MW faera ay 


att cient pt ware ae ea S| feat a arent orree athe ar aoty 
frat & ae POT TAR BAT By | 

aeIsaey aq: oT Paget aafafaa arr:, 

Wa TeASs CAST RATT Gard Breaseq ITT: 

aastrs weet ge So Tae: THT HITT 

wa ce Afaarn sofa ae sare araftt: 1 we t 

qe A eo} aera w se uaa A AR aR BF 1 tes 

fecoqaig & aqt GT Vere Saw aH A gosta ger Fy say 
ara ax fea 1 ga ater A ochre afafee & arena OA we a 
oR Se forse car wt eft | ret oT aA Te wR gees aa Tar 
Brew SA TA SN Bee HT ATS HT | 


SRT TORT {ht Ta TaeSse AaeHart: 
arceardenia wre one: srerttents fae: 
ARTERAG AAT TATA Yers VST 
wattraty rataerata tad wre: Jest a: 1 xe t 


Soy Ta TaI Si SRM Hl Hea H fore For, Hat Sti a 
& We Aas dan & faa stay am sien awa ® fee (ears ) F 
saat ik Hea F at fee sradeH & 1 SA wet tei ® ae 
wel ada BI ae & aa wre fear ea) vet GUT yee STG FANT 
TAT He | 
arr drafe accra ao Tarot abattta TT: 
array tier drat ahhray WaT UT: 
Naas Sects: Haewrata tar 
aTEnraanny frag frat stra: stat a: 1 et 
steps Tare an HF TaA Bar aw eh sree sife ahaa 
& are yea Sta safe ters at at | ae avr BAR & fea Ateraa 
ferax & wre afex Hf Fe ta & wa F feso F 1 SK ante tam 
STS VOT BST SRA Sareea ae agers yay F 1 SA 
wet al faata @ (Ure BRT VHS STA We) Sa feat a ae yest wT 
a wa HH faa wer sraran Ba So ae sift Gar SST SA 
sats ar areitate s | 
etie=rete ahs qeqt ef: afetraPaarcnt 
aararcarar fort er fee AST WaT: 


Gea wa avis BIW 


WaT WITT TT AT aed Aesierd wre: 
strapon: ry fe faatg ef a: afeerrs BA: 1 yo 1 
st gor eifett wie ot cfs & ge at dh #1 saat yirn 

arat areat & wars & 1 ae aT ais Ge atk atirgar 8 | act & 
wart sit safrae saat aia wea St Sa Wel we (areafas aet 
%, areat seat ) & 1 sist wr ye sin Sas fara 2 i ae Hea qa 
& ara faars aa & an tm afd 8 vet at ase afaen= ea 
ea 4 9 sik afer or faa wy 


fage faa wet va were eft ot Te AS 1 ue 
st or ce at aet & TA saa A sik sas fae arta H 
wart & | A Wa saa stcian @ | a-erach anfe ti Hans ® thn 
3 yare ea aaa Waa *& faa a Have aM 4 ae WaT 
asfrares Hwa & | SA Ba Maree Bi THA RT fee EA 
auf areal 8a & GAA Tas Va WK MW hare wT ving fase F 
wart & 1 set gor wo eg at A oT Se TI 


ae ot fandtac afe ff ar we dara aa 
wlet weres aN aaa va: sftrerfaoter: 
qr gaa araregate etet serarlecary 
ATA Ware Urares Aft <a: QStrHeeaTiseATT 1 GR I 
freee Gt I HI Wafer AaB, Fara (suse) gra feras 
TH Ta SA Hl AA Sa B, St PMS Tarest HI a sara & farra 
Waa (Al Wa) SIA Bia B, Vl cag Berfarsy] & farash ale feos 
a & arn a wefa eR, a, wan, ex snie Saas wt car Ar &, 
Fel SAY TSA HAT W FRAT ALT | SA Lan He | 
ST Ergiqeoyrgsy ao oy after watoreray 
POSTS FT SLOT LOT At FACET HTT, 
TOTO TY FLATT TAT AUTH ATRVA ATT 
area drearic aterrag fafer weraraary Ufearary | 43 | 
& Bor! GT ale AM Hl STAT ATT. BA Pe cH Ke ara 
ew & 1 GA ae 8 tamsit & wgeit wae ae feat 2 1 Aeet 
am sett wr pe get A ax fear ati Ta areca St ving at at 


WE forara atu 


fag ata BF Gert a sie qd sik wa aa ated Fa 
Wer Fae SA St Tay ey ait oy safe wr We (Se) Aer aT | 
Ba Wet wt oat & ce HA | 
A TATA BATT AT ST TATA, 
Waeare Hee qa Wor fear sta ste arfery 
HANSA PANT AT el WIA WHrery Fast 
Gardivete A aq eqe feasqrewAsT | uy 
SUH, PER Fa Hae & aa Wert 1 z ef, B We, 
Tat UF sit POT sa VET fees aT | Ta sere asa ST aA 
AE YT UT ST Tet & cart 1 PSR aaa K Hes Ei 
at Aen wifes | 7a Ha & wy Fa aK Wa Hl AA HT | 
aa areata war are Sas ae fee tt Ga STA St eat HH 
arer fara at | Ta sett pot wet wet S AS sa Ve FU S Farce | 
wretrd ware oie geaen wre retard 
srataer wre earra ae afer wrefareartatay 
we weartare: uft qe wersa yeaterd: 
eat arerte deaffarde aaa: starrer Set: 1 Gy I 
= Te, TA wesat er ait we az fara | SAeg BY & fey 
arent weft era & | Wer cet B ore sary fre erat wR faasa4s 
@ 1 et ant 4 feed cit et aren qi wer & fee qa Heuga & 
Wa BT 1 ta ste sal ar aR et SA H AAT saat Bart HI 
aed wo a fer fra ar qe che wt yd & Hous] at orn F sik 
HAs dw es aT 
are ure Tat faPise ferdveration qatare 
Vestas Aga edertt waftafe: arta 
wre canted anaate sara aga 
va sttyearad feraat wore fateres: 1 ug | 
fra faa e a at aorgfa wt ta say far @ ama F, Tet 
Tea Bat at aaa H us wt afvsa wea F Tat Aversa Gaasneit 
Gees aa A elt a AT AT el WaT 
IPAM FW He wea: Prasat adh afry shakers 
feared sated ara ae qonegireatan faergd: Were: 
Fa Wer sera & ules wsiga F se srerRear SRT TT 
ak gfe 3 aaa wen orsit at fan & fea fora fas ctr 4 
POY aft Wart 23 al WHA AAA Eat | 


SODA 


supT: eaearer few: erarfearet cfragret 
AANA Grd AAT We APT dies 
AA sm weds ta aft Sere (fae) wl Aaa HC FA WT ST 
ST FAT AT | ST A STH WOT a EW HT TIME aT 
Tere 
Tere: sya ufsered aanfh fefae afer vara 
eae wat tf ufsarfe eta fear ferfaat weary) 21 
Te Baa ST & ves alge visa am a feat wfra fate 
yj wem 1 at fen + seq vies a aed at aes wart at 1 At 
qarawn 4 oe Sant ae alge ofsat tan wt al 
ata ufsaat 
Tarasdt wrest Sarat Te: Heater: CA 
wat seat ucarafas ser tart fad ware: 131 
aerator (sa, aifzen ania) fen aA Haat GET UISsait (ISAT) 
zeaar fora fafa & aa vist sari. aed! 8, ae fafa ar tet FI 
PATAT ATTANATPT (342) TM aig area ¥ (2a) fares 
eaimert (3ex) ferfute: ware: pbs aahawertissé i x 1 
amt Fale 8 i oe a oS & ers 8 tet a a ad & araatieat 
PT MEM WECING EMH | gat feat 4 aay fafa a ax fer aa 
Br 
wcifeatt (3) felxa (23) fader cos 
aertryates ethers 1 aucieg 3 t 
BART: WITH: (34x) WATA 
area Te tar ae Ha Gt 
BQe1RB12 Ba feat H aay aaa fea eit S 1 aa: VHS HE 
al sraxana set 3 | 
HATA (34L) AAA (¥I30) AST 
BMT BATTSATT: ATS: (320) 


BR fast edu; 


» at: wat aq ah a 
ale Wert Wa at Gt 
BULIBVIZ0 Tar fet H aco Ura ein FE Wa a HEY 
fayy werd 4 va wea a elm Z| 


farrds aa afee Fad Pact SO Wa 
aaa anita fata vaefarerdt Hua: By 1 ot 
faa fafusrg Gait wort, UH ad are set fata & set ar 
ae er FR SOM | TAA SH AN Te HA WH se UP Ae aa UE 
ert t . 
Whyat gewe ater aey sata Prarahe 
aga af fe fafa: eat (x) AT Ore 
TN (3) F TraThs aT te 
82 ars ara yor er we said gue UTas feat FH ( wR Shree 
art: ora aque oat feat A) ure ag at » fof afee ent: ot 
WT HT 3 AeA Tat wot aT A 


ardeat (2 7% 7 Uftpaa ae wreeffteasd ¢ wa ear: 
Wifcarean fraatisaren arrer yearey TATA: 1 8 1 

» (fates Area: (2612G FATES: 2313 ANTATSA: BX130) 

2 72am saw dn 2&1 ws ad F at fae onfe ven wa a 
ada ad at se fafer ert 2 1 set at St ore fay onfe wea % 
Oral Tara FH cies arsy, Ural fafa H e313 avs aM Ural aM F ev1g0 
QUE GST | 

favareay: uf ata oa vata afew qaraes: 
Dat fet an ga ea efeeverfirsa frat 1 go 1 

ae Wa AM HA W Ha ale go cvs a HF Bl a Mel fea HU 

Uh AR BISA SM | Het Fo cus | af SA W 2 an iS STAM | 
aq Welfreat frase Aeararea: fecarcarany 
ay a ardaavatie frearcay area Te Taft 1 221 

wa wt Urefafa 4 y fafa, aaa Ay art am am F e-yv2 aM 

SST Sem | saa Ger ore fafa anf a se fata snfe A ann | 
Arasage sa fafrticer st gra qeat wenzerary 
Sfafkad wea fast fafa: at watt year wiesrfs weg 1 22.1 


sqaer avy ER 


a Are & gat va F (staty aa snfe ara 8 yw a wen aay F) 
ad se fafa en enf ? sat fafa a ga: asa siz am ee ? va 
TER UST a Gen ¢ | wan Ff fate et wie EA & art 


qe 7a we vadtehrer yhtteaatrerdata 
afeenend safata ani ura tafaae faadrree: 1 231 
di ara & fare fea ge fafa ad eri, at aaa a am <a fafa 
Haare etm sa wae ee foe safe aren erm 1 ya se fafa w 
aan ore fea 4 um fea seat a era VST | 
SBT (32) ATTCAT (2) TWATRAT (192) 
array (gc) ATTY (32) faares: 
earfetaras at farts 
ATA UST HAT HAT | Ve | 
Fa & sey fae aa 4 ara 4 ge fafa FY Hae ac, ae, we, fe 
ai 3¢ eT (Ge) SST PT 


sargqen fewer am eb wey aay eaet arene 
FRATTRTET SM AT HSHSAAAITATT, TA TH FHAsaTT 24 1 
fag don nfs 4 arat & ge fafer @ warqan <a Fert eM | 
ae oraeen ee fates aH eri 1 af & ee sir ti qd wet WW ae He 
aaa sifaa ert H ST Sa sisi H srqurd & siya aM ar sera 
fara fraremt erm ga fame Stet Fea #1 vam aaa sife F 
wet Bratz | 


ameya Matera] 
Fret (24) =H (ex) fazar (23) 
AM (2) BK (RR) BIBT (ko) AW (8) 
fee, (Ro) ART (9a) AT (Ry) freer ( 23) WH (ev) 1 a I 
aS J sey HI 2 Arai wr fate aa sik gfe wreat HAT: 
FA UHR S | TT (84) FHT (RY) HET (23) AMT ( RR) AG (RR) TT (go) 
Faas (8) HH (go). fe (2%) HT (22) Te (23) AA (gv) 
wat wa ae fraraured arfaaeaica aarqeddt: 
aq aniftea wy afre ep] ware waar 1 vo 
ge fate 4 Ser a sera | aera areata ST ST Yeo aT AMT 
st seit oe S sera aT Sit | 3aa ee aaa Spe erm | fafa snfe 


SZ fasara edu 


ST Bl HY HET AT VET es | 
“aries ore fet feard seer weae fase: BMT 
wert afer anal Te aT aT At: BAT ee 1 
arate @ © gery WS erm sett fea at feared ep fer ® fear 
Sm MUTA SOM tata: 9 FET (384-34) Aare FATS sree ar afaroy 
sara wy a fafa, aaa sik 4m & asa a ver vem | 
faenfcy aero fara fred ope tqerra WPT I 
frenics qertaistr seat yatetrareay Share 1 ve 1 
Sa SE @ Ue Ak ante Fat & ara fate onfe wpe eT | 
we Fa a fore fate anfe & are anfe & agar wate Ufa a 
gestae snfe at eat eet ent | 
eg Ura frearte acts qaey weft afrerer faarg fret 
| PRA TTA Wfaaredt BF Wet TA UA: WATAT | Yo | 
afe ore fafa snfe gen ¢ dt sa fafa & oe ee aor artes | 
“an sit afer wer frarer ax fata Ufa & onfe H Ta deer 
CT SMT | Fe HE TET SA UW A sagas ZT 


amrdat (§¢) AifearHrrar (224) WMATA: (24g) 
WEFT: (GG) MER (4) FST (9C) 
OMIA: (34) HAteHATaTA faafsarea: 1 ye 1 
ufaaar & aeret at faferat FT aA: Ge, BIG, V4S, WRK, WH, BS 
AA 34 BAT (WA) HSN aa ser HA B ster S aaestiaw at fates 
FF wera | 
arateantag arefaer: Yate Cat HX Ba: 
TAT SATRATT (234) FH aHT WMT: TARVSTRA HALA: | BI 
Tae F gate PIAA HY YS aH Aq A AMT V4 UT Sa PIA 
wR BI YT BIS EMM | 
geet aires ferat area: weeate fagarfaarea: 
Wa: WA: Waa GET war: Hares fest fea TH 1 21 
wl wavs & aqan geuta a frat Tee Het eh saat y - 
B oN BT 2 a MT SA HW vans ST VT sie ert | ga aa afer 
ufaqer @ aaat de WaT: 23, 


sade avy SBR 


AA (-W) BAFATATAAH (3-34) TaaAt (v-vy) 
ToFT (4-4R) ATF (Gyo) ATA (0-KG0) FETT 
TATEATA: (Koll V4r gal Vl 3 ) 
Ba (fo) fase at BMA ae aT: 1 Ww I 
WIV 49,0 A UT BAT | sett A ages as wre: 
Go, Ws, 42,64, 34, 24,23 WF TT HN | Bat Heil F eo S aN AA Qt 
wa tM Sa GIA wa & aa facta Ofs @ GH wa 4 deen 
ae @ wa fafa a sent 
Dre efregheraat ae freaat of agureaqares: 
fagat (93) weétarfeata saad, areata 
aa WANT FATT 1 Wt 
die sat wer fate sea a st aera wot om sett fafa A st gery 
al SISA aren avs srrfe SOM TAHT Y2z ANT HH HT SATE BM | 
fafa srt Hi aaa wot ae St oe fafa sik aaa & aa & ws aT 


ae St fafa ae ef arate veara frees geet 
spits areaaatg orery vileq: wad farts: | 2 | 
aaa a dared art faferat at ar aor HTS SB AM WT fo 
SESS ae ne aT Sore en) peel ae ea 
Aas eu 
VS aTea: (FQ) TL FTA (wa) PATO (43) 
TaTsTaT (we) SATA (Rea) Frarqare: 
aregaaticg aera 
aera: ara Ba 1 YW 1 
Wel Aaa A ASL @ SI aT 4 ATS A HAT: Ve, WE, 43, XE, 
28 Tel (fea) Fert ve | wh anfe uy oral A es Hae FST 
Fem 1 ag sie fat are Ha at sera set eres | 
aisa freee WaT TTT (19) 
eras Hate FT FAT FATT, 
WaT FETT Te TT 
Tye Yat SOY TIL | Re | 
Aitagcat aie ink Rete Sas AES RR 
BT BA A SHH Yio AM HL Sage HLA | AAA MH MT AT TA AIT 
RFR Te As STE organ Feray STAT | Fe wa area 


BRR farert edo 
ane a weet & WAM wet ye fate enfe a aT | 
were GAN Urea eS TSM wt OT aT 
cart wate amie areertar warefe autres 2s 
za wre fafa snfe er geq ee & few dn sik ofers St 
weal @ fafa snfe 4 set HH A GEER (MS A YeTa) SRN Aawt 
wl Fe Wee wh st Wa A SOY HR 4-4 Tat A Hae: Tsar 
a vera facta wa o erm | 


Treenecaarea wea Weta afaady | 

Burts WaT (302) frwratshat sara yhte|e vreerren: t 301 

Tra ara ak gu rea & ate afore wert @ afeorea & ama 
are 4 fafa anfe at cen fea sem | eae are ws Uh ag F 
(3922/28) GPK fer ar fart Sra F 1 (QWWIIwy) 


WRU: (34) Hearst: wea: 
(g4) Were: (33) Taare, a: 
Pratt art rer adtat artaget wfasreraa 1 3g | 
ad & we aT ga SA 4 sala, UH aR at F geuieui32 aaa 
fea ea @ 1 fa an 8 fre zea 8 efe are 2 1 Ta aaa aw ae 
aR Het ST | . 
TARSaaTy TA UH: WearafeHr: WAT: ( k4l32) 
a: ofe eversafirer afe eaten daar fee 1 321 
ta ya: sat aaa A A Uw Us a SISA PT AAT Yates TTT 
A arat feat @ sf iar evs dt sea erm | eaif wT ut 
ara feat Fo & are SF Tz (g1gK132) MA eM ze 1 ale aE aT ko 
aus & afm Sa @ | (AAA TAM TAT + 84132 AOS) A SE Mant 
ary ares Saat A 2 a ASAT VST | 
aartaat aa fer BperHi 
aM qarscrat ates a: 
ferarh TAA (gu) TET (2c) 
fafertiet tt tet: Ope: TT | a8 I 
faa dard & faar fea are tfa wpe dia @, amet fea sett 
aaa 8 Sart fet ae THA (ARC) HoT Fe wW Te fer ar a 
epe erm | 


sade ary. 33 


aarfer are fteft (ey) Cos asgTS 
fara (32) Wea: vets Alar 
wares fer up ett 
UM, ataTd CIE Tt: YtT 1 3x | 
fed are a carta fooa ad at dart & euiae aus & ae 
ert | Ta ava & site fea 4 uw sera ot ad & set aaa & fa 
a wea wi ae tia wt ape fear oT aaHT es | 


fea: weeara freer fears 
(quite) RT: Speqaren: 
~ warfare: aa: (Go) @pet: ROR SCALE GE 
FAST: FATT 3 | 
fry Asi (A4i2¢) HN ASA HI Her Wa 1 Saat Bpe Wa Aha 
a WT Fx go SUM SA HR BHP]! EM | Sat Vp] wen anfe a vas 
ay & sot fea & FS se we ve ad & ew fea Hr ape GT rT | 
Tenfeaitad ware qs: ep] ate Tilsaee: 
aerte oe taraarae cfrara: afererarmg: 1 3q 1 
aa: sim fea & eae a B Va fea aw a FeMA wT TF 
at ope Ta ert | afe tia dara sara & are et ae ara aiferra 
erm | 


TY ASAE (coo) fatten: Ararat Taal fore: 
Taal Pema  Wrear vata faere qary fear: ty | 
FE aaa Ha US arfe Hl Loo B UN BI Ta Aaa & AT (safe 
Bat aH) cos anfe S AMT Sy a Ta Aaa ST pw (Ate ESM) Hert 
anfe erm | Ba Aaa S Vea H Aaa WEN F coo F IPM R TAG 
Wa azar & ae sienfe at fray @ wR a Epe wer ante eT | 
wo Ho S am Sy UW sigt she Tas ez @ art SAW a AT! 
WESMTAT MTATE WT: (2L,¢0,000) ATaat TAA et fers: 
we faaiie te ad aravafreafe ach fare: 1 ac | 
(2é,¢0,000) ¥ 7ara at anfe sik ara fae (ax at) Bar aa 
ce ee oer ea ee ae 
wer Fate sate art Tae F 


aig yd We Weare Sark aTaTAM ee 
arty ant: aftenfirartt carte vatararht Fa: 1 31 


vax fasra edo 


ae att at ger at waren aay & fae Sz atk Gi aH ope 
“ate one fraerern erm | seem fore geber aT sraraven (aK a Bt 
Ten Hy) wl set fara a Ta AR YS He | 


Uld CAMTAT (Biol¥e) AHS War 
aq ada arity (23) ATT ey 
qaraash ferd wa aH 
Wet aa HA TH Ya: 1 ¥o | 
Fa sett at VhrwH yore He Ms A AM BT WH UA (zg) 
at ufs ara rit 1 sara 4 ga sit oa @ « aie are at ae 
yfefara ¥ ape ax otk ura & afta a OS ¢3 sist ay SAR Ten 
at waa tedl 8 1 WH VEN H a H Gea Her a Gat F 
aha area waa Ys Weare san fasts as 
arentiare. tatfetrafeadta wy Ader wat (ko) WHET 1 ve I 
afira @ stared are Prerety siz Tay eras Wea AAA | aa 
ep CUT Set HT VR Aa Tas ws fern Hr eK rare | fates 
oer ante reaper ee TAS Ta AT PHA | 


fer Fe wreier fern Ar fers Bpest xe (32) farftraty 
erersafera eft reer araricad nied YET | Xz I 
WR at Sa AT HI MEHR HI Ope eK Frareit | ae SHS VE 32 
eT a SA eA a Gs ver wt Asana wil & 1 Saw se, UTE, 
Ra ante freer at fafa aa wet ot aat 3 
watts erorfcred aaa vate at 
Welter Awad Ca aad Breer ah: wpeacaleh: 1 v3 1 
ge ad 4 ad dria 8 sararen sik gfetar aa fara area fear 
érn orerat & set daria asa fea we ef otk ws a ofa rave 
ait sad woriea ef sik wx A SST @ ea stk HR Ope G aT | 
‘Pilfe smart 8 ta atk wx AF at aie one FH aa ea 3 1 aT 
© yfehar i ate q afer ar oraz drat 3 (sist safe wea BAF 


MES (eq) Praforgd: (2e4) GATT 
HR: (Co) WAHT (xe4) WEA: (320) 
RTfet TA- (3x4) BTATA TT. (3€0) 
Taradiiiferfaht: werfat i xe | 
| arsed F use Ter A wy, Rey, Wo, Vu, B30, Bx4 TAT Re0 Fahy 


sree aor WRG 
sat @ fet Wen SI aaeT z | 
We YA: WUT Taare AT 
wach eat vaferrafaten Far Were Sea wy | 
TAH AWS FF: Rey se fof A ga vER ca ad Fy: WET 
@ wed @ 1 ae we, as oe an afeara & a ass wT aa 
eI 
ame wads at + Mae aU | 
erat qa: ane waar aratin feaate agar: 1 we 
up ag F ar wet (ne anfe) wt aa sel aA & oer (ase 


soy ot et SAH Sree) Tora UfoSat wet aga sal wt ufsaT Tat 
safes | ga dfsersil @ ste seb are fea or aaa FI 


or ATT TT (32) KS UT aa He: Ws fe wae ae 
WH GATS (eo) BET Mees WaHrfersaad frre Gary we | 
ada qi ad & fire are & fara fea wr Ane ope ute anfe 
fart @ se fea & ate a2 ad ud sa are & oat fea es I OHS 
ufe sife aet ati (33 ae are tt aet etm) ae TF Bz UR 
Wa UK Yo HAT BST VSM | 
qa: wearte Se asa: 
PATRPA (Ro) F (oo) THATHTAA (3€0) | 
Trarfserht: (x20) AfETA: (G30) HATH: (cgo) 
waht: Yt: arts WSTHeT 1 xe 1 
aa F 8,2,3 sife UM H Sra UL ATT TEA KH HAW: Wo, Wo, 
Bo, ¥Lo,, G30 AM Cto Hal AN A Visa USM 1 ATs aq F sTH 
ae Ura feat 8 wet az 
AST HATASACA (°4) E (c) Ta (4) 
ara (2) fret (ey) eT WAPaaT fH: 
arate wore Wet TSM (4ISIAIC AGL) 
Sr F Bpeat AAT 1 xe 
PAM U2, 46,24 BMI ATS A Ber wm | saa 32 ad we 
Wea wp|e eT ATT | 
farvat (%3) sea: ora, Uist sar gare avs a Feary faery: - 
rer eRS ater Hee aa A (2) eatfra (3) TAT AT 1 Yo | 
yead & ee ak are wen ve fea ar ge at ute safe aet eT 


BIE ferera edu 


ST Tae stH 23 ad ud seit ara & set fea a7 za fasg 8 afk 
ft mE ara F 1 Bpe aa sik Head } nfs aan Bc S TM a 8 
Sart = | , 
| Amitra: aa me: aie caqhe =farfract aq aera arena 
wt arr art (¢) ararits (3) APT Aa: Spe: FATT 4 
ae Ft nfs, ogi & a a sifeew SW Fa Ha HT ge & ah 
anfe & sigh a eerit | qu aat ew Ep qe ait Ge YF at 
TS es oe easy een 
SST B qa wpe eT | 
geeatasicn ata: on 
Fa TM Cah HAA 
arate (220) Afra: aHTa (220) 
wort BI: YT: HAS WHTHeT 1 42 | 
qeeafa 22 ad ved ait on aet eT | We sik GA FT om HoT 
ee een 
Ut qeeafa eh onfe 4 uferat FSA we. 
APT THA (33) TT (9) FX (42) TT (gy) 
eater (33) dat fetta THT 
TUSTHEY FAST (BWM LNRI) FMT: 
watad: Gy Bpea Warft 1 4a t 
Ua st YS BW SAT HT HAM: 32, 29, 2z,%9 He 33 SB aT ear 
Wa BH TA SAR BD Terex VWs Hl Gears F ssn | Geafa wax 
safe 4 Uferat H wEr a ea aaATHeT wT Ro eM AH aT aE TH Ge: 
Te & Sa B geen ap] eT | 
aafeara UM Tal aera frees ak fer a aa 
BPSK FRIGHT HET THAT AMT (4) ET TAT (2) CAT 1 Gy | 
FE sit ad ara siz fea A aw at uf ot ent ad te se 
ad wea set ara ait sat fea ot | ape ope afa sik gd a nea 
nif 3 aax YG VPM BB aM SAI 
at Fa aq: wage =aifwarat wads TaaT, 
Gere (4) Earft (2) Creag 
TATRA: CHEAT MTEST | 4 | 
ai aerg aft ugic & ape Ys aia Sa a ofa ett We xa. 


 saeER ar 4319 


afer at ep BH H Ve A Sst S ae Spe YH (seats) eT 
qe aat en & a yer vfs sit yw ope aft H am wT 4 @ TT 
at 2 TAT Ca Fa H YH SHI HW ope eT 

Mt: STAT (30) 3 UM Farah 

fe =aTer Fata ferftirerary, 

BATT (Ro) AMA: WLATHATA (3194) 

foraThrra: (Ata FETT | 4G | 

wift 30 ad yf fora afer sie snfe & a ge ak ad ara fer 

anfe & adt erm 1 aes a sik ep] wie BT SAT He HT YY AB 
any SH HA HT 204 HT FSSA 1 AT wt Ep] a A BST | 


uoaat ET TM (Ro) FET (go) A (9) THT (Ro) 
Tat (Ro) BW Warrant Pea 
Terfe Waet TW ACT (Rotxolisiot Yo) 
Srriiaray: eps ara Aft 1 yo t 
. aft Aerts 4 Uferit A WA we SpE wis sik ea | wt ara 
"SRST AY SETS: Ro, %0,9,R0 BH Ro BT UN at Ga Hl Vespa VHS Vy 
¥ ST wht ger enfe 4 uferat A SA @ werh 1 yaa wir ap] 
erm | (ge ad FH) 
san staré gat wen Gate wafers 
a Uf vent cfm Hafara: wax ct Tt BIT I Me I 
Te, TS AAT Ms wT Ts A SRR & UP a Het sfeH Tet EVM | 
& Ufst & me & wars A Tel foe at S71 


Tete: CaTfrraeIS (Qv3) AT AwY Ta-sT (48) Wed: Werrst: 

TA Gat Wraferer WE wa washes fereRS: FATT 1 4s | 

tra 3ik se fea & ata or aetiy fara @t Tae ova A AM 
Sn afer a set stein F SN ca arrea Fee B aT Fax 
— fee sienfe ar ora fea & ee fea are FH BA RW Vert S AM Vert 
SA MSA S TK a (WE) SHS ST 


fettaa: warradifer (wvo) srrgmar (¢) ATeMerctare 
qatrdt ore fru west waste fer wpe: ATT | ko | 
. senor FH TH Yevo 4M Steet ¢ Bam Sh wa HT TH 
hele Ft oe fer 8 ce fer ves EA HR TA aM ae FEA HR 
(ser | wer epee Fe eT | 


WBE fart aduy 


fr at Taree (99) fear at 
drag: wie (ex) warfss: Tat 
Aisrat (wa) fargeR, (go%) Far 
yeferrh (ca) Ea TA (ox) PA 1 ERI 
Hey Ane oe Gad F ex aon sifew er & 1 aa ex Uh ag 
HF (20g) BN HA dal F 1 WV cya GK ad F wx Her HA saz | 


yefeatee (2x3) ferag (3) Hares: 
ufrtare (43) Frarserea: (49) 
TWefat~e (<3) Ta (Ro) feria: 
wise yet fadtsa Wea 1&2 1 
Herm gH (2x3) UK ast HF (x3) He aga BMA (4g) Te 
aut % (uo) wer seat F 1 UWE (83) WL at FH (Ro) Her HA Brat BI 
qe sit ye an eftira an ara wet & aes a sim ana F | 


frenfeger: wft a aret ararefa: eaufferarigerar: 
MASETAH GUAT THETA ATTA: &3 | 
ax are fafa aera anfe & fea st am fafa a us sieht 
wert & fase % wer wn &, Ta TS | Ore an ge fea wah ae 
a & san & ang aw aera we ee fer or at fre af A ara 
sat are 8 3a fafaat at frat eft sen ara denn Bit | 
AMAIA AN: Hea We ferfa ant ay 
we Welsa qeirog: afeietar we wrayas i ex t 
alge dfser 4 tive anf ar wet H sit at gfe St wend & 
ws, qd 3 wen a sme am fafa am sik aaa HF fer at oe 
fay Were TTY ATT | 
arte ait irererdisen afaerdt aera AL: SA 
Ware: alae Utes HATH NTT MATAR | GY I 
uee fret 3 sa ce at Hae dfs et sare eft 1 cim saa 
amet ate ara snfe arr aed aeet STA OTA 1 ora: ae HGH UfsteHT 
yet BA at ot gaa USA SH TET THT BT ae AA Fea e 
Taner fara frart weatsap_Eas 
aera qa setfisdtadistraee fart we: Ta! 8g 1 
va fear ain ¥ screen & ae sae car free & fea Ta 
& 1 aenfa gas fava aq at xis aaa Bh fore shea @ Wao Fat 


saegSR ary SBR 


ara UA: wet aT Te SI 


cect asa eae eee 
frat ceca gfe area weit aerir wz aUeAyT | as | 
waa vars 4 4 faa e- af onfe @ sey a Oe & A SH 
al STS AA, faa al aan, gieara, aq saat sin faa, saat 
Were | 
Hear facta aotcaver Hearecare atta Peer 
warn fer qf forarercaread wiareepfit t ec | 
fadita vars #4 fava #1 ve ze, sit wa onfe at aT Tem, 
wea Had, ara sik fea Ht Wea, ve se sik ud aie wt thre 
neta Her sik se Praved at fafa, ror an fer afar | 
ae ees efedte eB fearer raf meq Get 
sarerarect fgfaear werfe fat YTATA FEAT: t ket 
ada wars & fasa ®-<e stettr Preerery at fafa, fea, are, 
ag anf & sifaafa fraraa a fafa, aera ve, ards ad, we Te 
ait Ud ST Ga Wea Sa Wd HI EK | 
aa aetaes te aret an uate at feat: 
VAAN ACAARNTSA MIE TAT AITEH TaTel t vo | 
age were 4 y oft, cen aos, a uate sie am faa 
A, USA HN, TAN HEN, BL He sik gra yaues z | 
qa aghtticr werrenfsen: aah 
AT Ware fadtar aer Afesad faopearfirmre: § oe | 
a WER WIT a VETS A SET ant vet ar Aeaarfeer WT 
Eat | Taw ae 2 vHt A we SPE SA H VA St Her Wa z 
sae ait Hara H eT 
Ward Ge: Be wht: Ware ae" Ure yarnit cay 
VI Waa ct: wa qf aver: whequrafeats afe wa: 1 021 
day vars 4 vet at ud sik vias nfs a a, sa sik aa 
SRO wet HI Ths Fe, HA SI TSEC wT Tea, yarnat Fraereay & 
faa mfa wus, uff sik saat a siz vite uffe, fafa sik aaa 
anfe Gait Set WaT et 


S¥o foam eqquy 


ese was years frenfcata: witrosarar 
. wearerat: srearet aattarenrtor ara farferersest: 1 02 1 
ae wert 4 tf, as ak aaa at gen Uist, fat, aaa sik 
WS, a sk waa fas a aM Her WAN z | 


ferath efadwatcah ararat BAT: AAAVSCTEM: 
fou ta are wpe Ge Tea AT AAA BMT Ta: BOAT: | wr | 
9 8 wars 4 felsik fe eis, qa aife sik wef, cease, state 
aig am, wanesa anfe aa, fen stk Ser aaa sit wpe ta fave, 
CO, BOT isp arfe ser wat ze | 
saree at fagqe ara aragetyfeata ware 
warelte fay ael arsfed ara T aT: 1 9h 
wey vats 4, gd, ws, yorn fora uftary, cfoas waaef, x 
feafa, aéenrea ak <4 Wa BI aE, af led ser sie ana 
aert ars fea an fates ore & at ¥ wer rae 
afte tt fates aa aligned cat fq aa: 
Afra arfrer areas: Taaretaateats 1 ws | 
wae werst 4 afa, fates ara ar vig, tfa oikt wx HT a WER 
ol Ca, ip & spa Brat aM A Ae ae wt wen HF ae FH wer 
Ta & | 
areata Prete aa seh ALOIT Wa, TA: 
Warreesden ATT Weert frst ST WHT | ve | 
Sq vast H sea snfe, sa are Fe A sea fst a F He, 
RR aq aa ait & fava ¥ am ver wr uftera fea waz | 


UTA Ke Tara gH eta ope fea, aor: 
Oy afer faratrahicrer qauterrearte fafa: 1 we 1 
WHER West FY ep]! Wel Ht GAA, We Spe wea ait aa 

aaa ait sret ga ed Praveen, we afa (am), we fara 4c, ae 
qs Xe, Teqe tar & fea afeiart & rae & az F Her war 
zt 

art afr ares & ats far: Weare 1 Wea: 

ae faa VT aT AT: WATT TAT: VASBT: 1 wet 


saqaER aapz SSR 


aed wars F aay ste We Am, we Aaa wT ga, efarr sie sax 
RM, We AVI Hl STAT, a tea, jaa face afer, arrara, wate, 
armed, WstH sls ant & az A fags wa a Her rT ze I 
wae ura, uefa etef VS WAT we TAA Fred 1 
Rar Brees ase ay afeatareray Vpisat Warsi: | co | 
83 9 ware 3 of atk of A ae aaa oT saa sik sre, aaiet 
SICH SI AAT Tet Es as BI YH H VHT & ar A fags avis - 
Si a 
aged Gar wary yea Set weerPRAAC TTEH 
warn st uke Fe Hie: Bes wt 1 cz 
we a were Fae gs sik ax aT Hai A VE BI Fea Bik 
ae, TH we aa sik gfe ar uke, ae wieafa ste qe ae yw 
awe ania at Her rare | 
Ural Hey Usaest Freat feed vet Tahe: were: 
Roerarfoaich: ware yt ae: ae wires WA CRI 
‘used vats 4 agfa an cada <4 Nera wt HT Fe ga 
WER & vars 4 fraser ware een @ | sei we a wate waa 
Bat | 
aaifer: We wesyirm: ferret er fafatters: 
oA ae yeas wrafouad we ahaa: 1 231 
Staed Wars F aed Fat HT Seora HT Geat HI fa vitor, whe 
cam anf & weary F ore usr fea 7a eI 
Wes: Tres fea stare aaa aveaten: 
wiaféat: a oe meade aranfa: tarrmarfe GRA 1 cx 
eared veer FH se edt & aa, aha 4a ane HI ave, aH 
at 3raq wet & ae ge a wer den siraeret Ba F geet ot feerfa 
a FY wer raz 
TEE Ole tarerenesariearat Piedra: 
wears ararts qa: Wersd: Wafsnda wer aa: 1 ch 
seared vere 4 oie wat wel onfe wel a1 wares, ada ane at 
sam, Wax Ufa geat a1 ules sik fiafa, ahs & aa ga aa 
aan uzat us anfe ar wet frarearat wr atta game | 


¥¥2 Tara ay 


wart fas we taser gfe: wart git wos 
ate arate erifrrmay gfe ae ware: 1 2a 1 
stra vers 8 ae aaa sik sreret Han aT Tare sik saat 
afe, we aaat ar af uftart, ad, ara, fea aie era & arferafeat 
wl Ha, vig at efe din sit qa fect at var dn wel mat | 
fas fart Mes oa afk Werd ae wafe wie: 
area trearte faea fafa: cat aeedt afoe war: 1 os | 
atad wearer A ct wart & wile sal St Hea, Were, aw ante 
wat arr aaa 2k we ute ante freer aM cad ae aa AA at 
fafa aet weft & 1 


Wasqahotieds fast tarfearerat: Bete: 1 
fared wareqadsts frat: traraa wit yew 1 ce | 
yairad wars 4 qf & ara Me F ta sik cat ah area aT 
am, ae arfe amt a eped ott saat srqyfa, faaed ue a, 
Taal ea wad snfe we stk aa ya raved at fafa wet wet 3 
ue fa: ware ftfa aye aenfier fafreerasa 
wre: Werat: feet acawen afar & arafrerh arr: 1 cet 
Se Weer & Tears A enfaer Gam gat 1 sta staat dia vareit 
at F Het ara & aga F vata A sel B ey Wang, sa, 
fafa, @k araa 3ik arg, mera at ante ar aa Ae ae a 
daha sufe & at Ff Her wa ze 
Great wferterarfe: Breet: Bea aE: 
PAA: AAT TITANS AAA W ST Fer: 1 Yo | 
23 9 vert 8 ag ae Her & fae are ect Arenfs aa Aer 
afed sac (sieere) sit was srfe ulead sae warra feet we 
ea acta fear ara @ 1) gad gd aft scene ate or fase acta & 1 
ae aghis ze epcisqeqaet: ate wferari: 
. prearirarasrrng wre Wenfesred ahort serge: 1 3g I 
arr ws & vars: 8 alge ufsaar stk wer & favat ar daa 
& ota 31 sa vert da were 8 arenfaare Bare Ban | Faq WaT 
Wea sata arearé ware gan | Mfrs ste tier sa St years wvSt wT 
qe Wa wa EST 


Suse aUTy ¥¥3 


afratseayy vet werd qftraret ITT, 
Walfadt UAHA Hedarmarska PaTT ASAT 1 821 
wre HIE WI We A wea Haat suse A yea F 1 apa fa 
WIPAR safe qaTea GM Vea et ae St ata Sh Sas aa 
SoH Ge AA Ws gas fea sade 4H wil fasa daa A Her WaT 
= 
for ee arevranta: wars eared aaarea aah are 
a ce fas toa ate err werfe daxifad ater: 1 <3 1 
SAH vere Hi fen, xara ai are ante & fava i faa @ wer 
Tat & 1 aenfa dar F ofa aelt cera a afved ci st vet sa 
ara & | sta: met a Ha DET aife em ae sara A a sree et ara 
a 
wart TTeeaT acfor Teg Tat WT: 
urd ta afgat: wa Hora afeq HATA, 
wadata frat aghtarsra: aes: 1 ey 1 
amt: afer yas ten (oda Safts FH saa A AS Sera 
Val BY VET alo AMT Sat 21 sistema Wrafaaal o° SMA AAA 
@ 9A wo’ uo’ ud See we eM | aM TAA CY 30” ARMA FT 
arn ata & ait tia fas (avSA) @ 4 Fel 30 fae afaw & ) A oe 
sik afar 4 fea vara and wt teat Het sik Frat &a a faye 
ae & Sat ST char Saris HoT HAM: Het VM WS | TAH SRI UK 
TT Wa Sey Hl Ufa TAT TAA AIST SIAR GS Gar Sa HT Gira 
oft qa WHA e | 
weg targaa ufeer aeter ferent: feet ft oF (2) 
ASAT AT GT (2) ST MeaG (3) Ad Was ( ¥) TAT 1 ey 
qe Val a aq fos Bai ee qt AM H aR AH Het 
wT tet Bt (9) fora Gt at STS (2) TAS Ta A AR A (3) Ae 
(¥) was ; 
MY WerayeS WT (4) HAT 
HIATT YA: (Aw) HTTP WaT: (2302) 


ATTN (V¥IC) FRAT: (2e¥3) 
PeTaaTaT Brea (oes) 1 AE I 


waved . fart ety 


AM (4) AAAS HT SAL AHS HAT: (2-VVVy), Ro RQ), 
(R= VR), (W—NEWS), TAT (4 RY) F | 


Masaad Taga fs qt 7 tera weefe Tar 

wry qfarart aq WATS (g) Seat srr Par farrea: 1 got 

4 & tart Gea SE A UH St Sa chars Fa a eee Ya WD 
feera 3 1 ata: Sa CATA ST Sen Geen aet fe arm 2 1 sei aw 
aan & aaa yArre anfe @ adh Sena Var @ edt Hel Teh 3) | 
za var & ye aT FB STA (&) HI SMA Y HoT 


AATATECTAT MLEAT ART: (2324) 
BATA (19) SAT: (19) WATT Yak: (gy) 
strrfer drat ary (c) sf 
Wat: (22) Ayaerttadten: (2300) 1 8c t 
(&) TESTA St See TA (RBV4) B | (\9) SATGT HT ARTA (9) 
Yel TAT STATS (RWG) TACT (C) WAT AN GG HT AMA (22 
HA Ys). TAT AaAHAT (Roo TR) S| 


arartrgat () frp (23) Trt 

BT (RRB) MCA SATITGE (to) AMAT: (Zo) 
BRafey AST (Rv0) AT TSH TWAT (36) 
TTS FH (2g) Yo ATS WHT: (2G00) 1 BB 1 


(2) WAS HT (I Hergd) Tar eeyo HAT TAT FI (Ro) Tea 
MH Fo WANTS AM Yvoo He TAL B (RR) AT BT (ae Her Ys) TMT 
R00 HAT SMF | = 


areaice FTrmt (22) fretar (~3) 

Tareprsarsy fereiraarhy (2043) 

Wat (23) fret («3) FaRTHAAT (2e42) 

ACSIA: (%2) ATPAGAT (2e%0) WATT | Yoo | 

(22) SIVA & sR HT xy He YF TA Yuy Hen TA Zz | 

(23) SEZ HT ¥R Het Fe AMT eeyy He TA Fs (kv) AA HT ve 
He YS TA ReRo Ha SM F | 

Ue (2s) SPAT (ey) AMT (40) ATS | 

fara (2390) sa farearaet Weg Sey (28) 

aat: (42) Barofs qa: (2340) Heat 

BX (vo) Taal (4g) ATATHK ART: (yoZo) 1 Yok | 


sreST aay, Rai 


(34) SHAT BT yo Hergd AMT eaeo HAT TA B I (2G) HEAT 
Hy farearac FT 4 HoT Us AMT wuo He Ta B 1 (Xo) PRAT 
Uk HET Ys TMi woo WAT IR FT! 


stttt & (xc) ceinftrat (g2) fader 
FAT (eK WSATSHT (G4) ATTA: (19319) 
HUSH (2g) SM WHATS (Yo) SH 
VERT (88) AMAT Fa: (gors) UTE: 1 02 I 
(g¢) sf (Wea) BT GR Her Yes TM wvy Hel Tar T I (2) 
Sols HT ey Hee TA Ro HN Fe F 1 (Ro) MPsrarane aw ee 
HN Ys TAT Lovo He Tat & 1 ( feest ura sar yest 4) 


Sarita APT ATA (22) 
Tartar (&¢) AMT qaTfer (wye) Wear: 
TATA (YY) AAMT: (G8) AAA: (Yoo) | 
HST (23) GNM: (90) ACA WAT: (RGR) 1 Yo} | 
(23) earpant sratia wr ec Hen ye AMT we HAT IMB 
(22) WaTet HT eR He Ys AM g¥oo HAT TA B 1 (23) TA FH Vo 
He Ys AM reho He BU z | 


AAT (R¥) ATAM: (ov) HUA 
UTA (253). TFTA (4) AMAT: (23) WIS HZ (Ko) 
st AHS (26) AE (Lo) ASTM (920) 
TWAgay (oS (29) TATA ATT: (44s) 1 ox | 
(2¥) SUR BH oy Hat Ys TAT 2aIax HET FAL Fi (2) Hat 
Ua HT 23 we Yes Taq ego He Tar F 1 (Re) stawe (freaha) a 


co HAT Yas AM wlo He BA F 1 (Xo) TARA HT co Het wd 
FAT GUS BAT TAF | 


AWeathas (C\SKAE (co) ATEH FEST: (RG) 
TIA FH (VISHG (co) Gated TT: (2400) 
atrrfer wrearas TAA (30) TAT aTTTAF AET 1 You | 
(2c) Rifas Hea HT ce He YF Aa ako He Tart F 1 (2) 
FAAS FH Lo He Ys WT yoo WaT BWR F | (30) AA at F 
Req Hae star & sad ae w ferd Sa aT 


Saar (9a) RTP Gat (Ragusa IT 
(3%) Gat TMsT: (ge) BaAAMTAeE: (cv) 


SER fasra aduy 


Hoofsy AH (32) fafeet: (20%) Bary 
sTRT (Rho) AAT TWA YL TATA: (%R) 1 RRL 
(30) FAA Br SR Her Ys TA 2IQy He TM F 1 (3%) Agr 
WM TH RW a ee Hel yes se wey He Tar B 1 (3%) SOM aM 
ATA HT YY HET YF TAT Guo Hell SU S | (33) WAR Bl Ye Her 
ya at é 


WISTS (REQ) THA Yar (3x) 
SATA (RRR) PRT: (20% WATT (34) 
AATAT: (28%) ATPAMKAT (R420) aT 
AVEATAL (3G) TTYL (39) Sef Tar: (geG) | Yow | 
REX HEA TAB | (BV) WAH ST ee HET VF TAT 22 Her 
TRS 1 (Bq) WANT AY HET YF TM RGRo He BAR I (3G) sate 
AT 24 Senge AAT TMT (39) THAT wT at eey Her yt - 
BATRA (204) THAT: VET 
fared (2agq)se Meradt farqatt (3c) 
UTA (AO) SFHTH FER (2ooR)ST BTFAT (3e ) 
FASTA (AAV)SAPTMC (4K) ASAT: | Yor | 
(3G) STATEAT HT SAHA YG TUL TAT (Bio) TTT HT LIER HET 
Sas 1 (aC) Teradt TR ATA SH evo He Ys AA Yook BET TAL 
& 1 (38) Bret ar ey He Ys TA Uo He TH FI 
AMfeat Wars (vo) SAA (x29) 
aAMTAfaes (2z0c) Satara TahT t (2) 
ATHTSNT (R29) ToMMfew: (2082) WAcA- 
Ge (¥2) Bfars (230) Prrarfey RT: (223) 1 YR 1 
(¥o) WANs BH Wo He YF AM eyoe He Tar ei (vz ) 
FARATIAT HT Vo HAT VF Ta RY He TA B I ( ¥2) Waeygr 
HT Io He Yo AMT Wx He FMF 


AeTEet (¥3) THT TaTAMT: (233) 
WRT BATA: (RoRv) 
TATA (VX) BMTASAT (23x) 
PARTE (GCC) FT ASAT (¥4) 1 yo | 
(¥3) stereos HT 233 Hel Yas Aa yoew He BA (vv) Aaa 
AEA HT BY Hog AM rece He Sa Fe 1 (vy) VER Pita 


sqeE aay, See 


Waa H (23R) VATA (xgvo) Waat (we) 
Ws GT (ex3) A BS Fa: (B¥CC) 
ATA (wo) safer qat (ev3) Sferarr 
BRT (NUYS) WATT (¥C) TLMPTAAT: (wy) 1 UkT I 
23% Hl Ye AM evo HAT See St (¥G) WAM Hl Wve HoT! Va 
AM We HEN TA Fl (vo) AAG Bl wvg He Ys GM Wey Heil 
TR ST 1 (KC) TST HT oxy HoT Us TT 


ASTER (LLEK) NIATTET 
BA (XS) THT (eva) FRG: 
AAT AT (yor TT VAM (R4RISE ATT 
BE (REC) FAAHTHAT (42) Pare: (R42) 1 kVA 
2956 HA TAR Tl (v8) Alaa AA HT eve He GF AA x2 
He TAS (4o) Ate (GA) HI 4A Heya aa wee HET FAL 
ra 
(4X) UHTHAT TITLAT HT AUR eT YF TAT 


gard fear: (R3ex) HEH (42) TATA 
FT ATT TAT (RGR YY THAT FAT: (gz) 
_ Ferrel arm WTF (43) J 
THAT (2gR) PRT TAIT (2B) 1 2 l 
RW HEAT TA Tl (4) BSH HT GR 1 Jo Hel Yo TAT AV 
HAT FA F 1 (43) AeTacl GI GT ST zee He Ys TAT VAI Hal 
Ta I 


aret Fat (4x) BUTI (2gR) fers 
WHA (2332) Na Tetvat (44) I! 
werearier (gu) FT favafaya (2323) 
SEE (GR) TATTSATOG: (eg) 1 Vex | 
(48) ATETRAT HT ARQ HET UF Tea AWwY HEM TA Tt ( 4) 
AARAL HT LEY Hel Ys AM 23R3 HAT TAL S | (4G) Afertge aH rev 
wear yt aa 


SAT (2340) TITSATT (4) 


Soria: (29%) AH Taw (22¢0) 
Timfst A (4c )SAAAT: (g9u) Werker 
faxed (2324) TTSTT QT (43) FAM (goo) 1 VG 1 


’ 


wee fasra edu 


Bro He TR FT 1 (49) TSA HI Voz Hell YF TAM ago Hen 
Se Tt (GC) TUM SMR STF SH wey Ho Ga AAT 2324 He Tar 
1 (4g) Taste WM (Alea) BT ee Her Ue aa 


HATAis (gov) HfeHaTat (go) 
HIST (oe) ACMI GT: (R364) 
SET TTT (§R) SAT: 
WT (86K) TATA MET AHA (A4XE) 1 LXE I 
Bo HS TR FI (Ko) BAHU HI woe Herge AM w3qv He 
sar 2 1 (Gg) SMa HF UT Hl wee He Vs aT wave He BaF | 


BTATGL (&2) TL TATA (298) 
Mearesg: Us UWHATAT: (exes) 
Hees (83) frvaqer: (223 MIF 
ASAT (¢ve4) Shes AA TITT (GX) 1 Veo I 
(GQ) STAT BH WA HTS TA WR, Hel Tart S I (3) sites 
(ferctez) Hr 2AQ Heyes AM vey He Tat F 1 (ex) -eifea Aet 
(3eTaTST) 


Soretterony (2) Afsereray TAT (ceux) FAlfeararcaygeaart 
POT UN WC WT Sa PATS AHT: WAT 1 Vee 1 
wT BR HENGE TA Vquy He TR FA aa aa & ye Ba 
ar 1 ae es Te (ATS, FATS arf Ft Serra en) B ss 
Be Vet Br SA A starter Sea Het Vay F 


TH (G4) Tat (2) ANgia Fe TA: (gv¥0) 

HA (KQMSAA: (9) WETS WHT: (232) 

Farah (a9) frets: (ee) BTaTE WHT: (eu G0) 

ATEITHT (GC) HTCTA: (GR) WAT: (kG) ¢ VWs lt 

(G4) TT (HES WAT A) BH We VB Ta evvo Hen Tat FI 

(G&) HES BI io Her VAMAT Ae (gace) Hert TUE BI (a9) forgq aT 
We HH WMA TM YyGo We BAR F | (GC) ATLHT TAM (GR) wrget 
SMT BT kG ert Ufart 


TATACRT (8336) LATATTRT (oR) 

RAH MWA (90) TILT: (3) A: | 
WPTENIS TY LTT (2C194) 

Tafer wt (9Q)STST TAT (YS) ATT: (Awe) 1 Bot 


sagen aoty . WER 
AAT SAM BAM: W3IL (SNH) TAA YR (HAC) HoT FA | 


(\s0) STRUT BH Re Hat UA aM ecouy Her TA BI (198) 
ferg Sk AM HTH BT By HEU TA Yves HENTUL F | 


W Ce ATT (92%) TMA (go) as 
TA TATAT TAN TAT (Rode) 
WT AAT Ter Sar 
HEX (9g) SHACATET (AYO) TUTAEST: (ROR) | VWI 
(92) @S AA Br yo Hen VHA aa ce He Tar zt ( 3) 
aa & et F aH (Tal ST AAR) F AeA HT We He Ve AAT 
2203 HAT SAF | 


(ox) wad ar Wrasse aeysvacie 
(exe) Pravafert aera (94) ee oferrer 
AMT WT (249) AAT WAT (°Zo) 1 WWI 
(SGieantt Sic aun staid wake cian Se Sea 
awe wen Ys st eve We Tar S 1 (94) aa ofa F fears uA 
(SUA) HT Wo HAT TMA Tal weYo Het BAR z | 


| ASAE (94) SRT TPT (2) 
TOY ATHAT (eto) MTT TRH PAT (99) 
AMP TWAT: (330) BANS TAT (zo) 
BAT AHTET (92) AIA: (Yoo) | RII 
(\9) SA HEY HT WO He WMA AM wvro Heil SU FI (9) 
Teer ht (Tah) wr azo Hen VT TIT YW:Ro Ba IM F I (9d) 
aferoy A ftera cieprget (sftefae1) HT (goo) Het Ys 
Ureat faasiise tatfer (vce) forat 
aah fecaenfe wea (199) 
JM: (2g) MATa aha (Ve) FATA: (co) 
WSEUTAT: (36) Hae Feit (Yow) SH | YW I 
TM vee HET TA FI (9) fEeHM oda wr Aer eg oN 


AM Wy HEM Sar ¥ 1 (co) fens wr afar mt So eA 
ROW HEM TR FI 


ye (cg) sfraferer (263) TATT gut (2g¢19) 
HEX (22) WATT (eve) Feryo_ WaT: (2033) 


So Fag ayy, 
amen tibatieck ence (23) 
. BISA WAT (RQH¥C) HVAT 1 BIW i 
(2) fearera or ge a WR He Ys eM ace He Tae BC 
(£2) Fears St HEA AM eve HT Get aa way He TAF 1 (23) 
qaamt Ae MART (TALES) aT HA (RVIVC) AT | 
AIFS: (240) TAMA (e900) aT 
aeage ware aes 163) 
Weaa: (248) AAT AMT WAT: (RCo) 
AAT TS FE (2 veg) HAA 1 LW I 
aan feerfa-euo Het ga six 2woo He TAL B 1 (cv) Wea 2s 
TAC A META ATA WIA oe TEN yt AM revo Hen TH H fer 
& 1 vat Sarg (ex ceo) era F 1 


Hare Har (cy) feat (x20) se 
NATE TST (C4) MATT | 
Sar qe fetoaet af (cg) TA 
| MAT: (2832) BAT FH FAT (eQ4o)ST AMT (29) 1 Vs 1 
(£4) SeaTst let HT eyo WET Yi AM wo Hey Tax F 1 (C8) 
gan ud fasra Ser 293 Hen Ya WA eQuo He TAB! (cy) WA 


+ HT Aeqany 


FHATAT: (333) ACATE AT (2280) 
aby feat: wer aerrartt (cc) 
FMA! (R¥oo) AT BY WE (29) 
PARTSTA: (WY3) YHTATHATAT: (3RR0) 1 Ww I 
aQQ He Ys AMT wo HoT BAe | (ce) Fat wast sik 
sat F area 3e3 He Vs AM Woo Hen BA z | (ce) BA HI AE 
MMT ¥RQ HET Ys AM IVs, He SM FI 
qwafrararsr aehrete 
eerraris wants ae aret: 
ATTET WET (Ro) Weft feraer: 
TAH ATT: (yo) AYA (3¢co) Feat: 1 gz t 
a wa Ufeen sees & wearsat ar avta & | eae afar F qa 8 
(So) aa & Hea aT SH feeris qow Heras aa agco He FAL 
ra 


SIS aot, BUR 


aa, ofare eho qeaeant asa werd 
GATT AUST AHA (8g) TTT 
MA: (9019) STAIN: (3090) WABT: 1 tR0 bt 

see ufss 8 afa ufos enees do & fad cosa aa wT OA 
AME & 1 (32) MVSA ols HET UWA Wel Roo Hal BA FB! 

We Aas Tehe BSA (92) | 
AATHA TS (4oo) facet AAT 1 

aa: Harm seats wy 

Aver areqtera: whes 1 aes. 

Saw fey Fs wos wr AA aretat 3 1 (<2) arate we faye @ 
Lolo HA SA BF) TA WaT dts aelesit B ar A wer war | spt 
arg ota & afer H ofr B | 

atten at frfrdrecrer 
caberter (93) weet Tefe7, free: 
WATET WaTix BS AA AFT: (zs019) 
GATMTAT (Rooo) AISA: 1 Iz I 

afer fren 4 arifter sae ite cfaror at anit H set aT FI (3) 
SAC STARLET HT ALT ATT Joos He WMA AM Zooo He I F | 
(8¥) Sfarr sraftaar aT 


WET (94) SH APTA Fat (gIco) Saferat: 
WT BATT (2320) STAT: 
aTbfcrarat (84) feaqstt Wear: (& 23) 
Wea Batathrtas (gyoo) ATA: 1 233 1 
FET ITT 2ICI9 FETA VARA TAT YBYo Bert SferT St (Aq ) STS era 
RB BA Ys AMT wyoo Ha chery F 1 


ROTH Ft TEM 
Taragey LY GT 
forarf at: waquiteeter (239) 
SS (98) Warrerereftrary: (220) 1 23 I 
ara a eT wr gen fra art & fou freeadt ( sete &) 
WS Tara Br avers, eS ee aa ey 
% fora tar eI 


(8) Sha HT eae Het Yo TAM Wyo HEN FATS i 


Hafrarat (90) MAPrTar (vo)sF 
faza-eat (gRIQ)SMT ITA (RC) HIRT (evv) 
—warfor gat (eyvu) TaCHH (ea)sf 
WHT (RG) ATTHAT BT (xRoo) ASAT: | 23y I 
(39) AAS (g¥o) He ye TAT egy He FA Bs (<e) HATS 
Qe HET Ys AM Lavo HET Ta F | (98) FATT (Fag). ey He 
wen Rowe HT TH F | 


| everfeacrads (200) SERIE (xg) 
| FATT TART (2G) AT TATA (202) 
AALTOTAY (AVEISHY WHTa (2) = 
Ure ATT (go) SHRMSHT (Rw) FaqaTERT: (gRcg) 1 2G I 
{Qoo) TOSAST LxG We YF TAM eWE BET Sa F | (20k) ATETAL 
ee HAT YF AIM VW He SAL F | (R02) UeHa (ve) Her ys 
TM RAY HET TM ca 


QT (goa) SHPAA (rv) Se 
quiifia ar: (2204) Feaftasrary t (ov) 
Refer WHT: (evo) HIIA FA (AI) 
THATS (You) AMVTA: (tho) TI: 1 2g t . 
| (203) THER tye BETTS AMT Rot HA TR T 1 (Ro¥) ASA Wo 
AT FF TMT AWW BET TH Bt (Rou) SHAT (R40) Hert YF 
aaa Yat: (Ags) MLAS TET (R44) 
PTS (20G) Wari AaaTa (2232). 
Afraat ATT (Roo) SEAT 
SE (AGC) ARTA TAT THAT: (2243) 1 tRe 1 ee 
AM ABC HET TAT Bi (RoR) BOT BHT Gy He oF eM wea 
HA TA S 1 (RoW) AAG Hi (NS) HE FF TAT AY We SUF 


HAL TH (200) SHUTTAT (tye) SH 
TAT (2923) ater (209) SPA: (2G0) 
ame (22c0) efranqgardy 

warherh Tas wet TAHT 1 fe 1 


SqeeR at, VR 


(Roc) FAL AH BI RGe HoT Yor TIT 2ygy Hes B | (208) 
Ain et See See aa gm Re at SC Ee SET 
afar & fae FF 0¢ eat HF a A Her | 

safer Ge ant a AP 

ya bia frat fatter 
TACT Fea (42a) Ea FIAT 

FoaTaat (Reg00) HAMTHeT YTH ETT | yvo | 

Gl Laat ST Stat He BH SAA FY HORE BPM BL Wo F AMT 
eH HS HT AT HAA | 


We, Wert ea fafa aT (4%) AT 
aint (360) Fe fare 4eq Wared AT 
wasrar HT (3x3¢) eq Cred frat 
arg ve fe vest BEATA: 1 exe 
ga: St tart & yet fara oraz HET FH GoW, BM WMH 3e0 G 
amt 2 1 we ar art tart et cere & arg @ a ar fae 
(vac) @ am Gh oa at at eA ga ot wt fea oT & Oe 
sigat qo frerert | ae 3a art carat & ata wt dtet et eit 1” 
Sifrercafadl sea WT HTT aT 
ahaa at ac fares Sera: 
arene, qa wT AGT Tar 
 Wrreas faarrerehaarar Aad Heres: 1 evr! 
wrest are & Safateat A oet HT aA, eferor ae SR Ys HT 
wd afr ani seit sr wer nfs & ar & A pe fore @, Ta 
fret apt it feat aor & Ay wien wet fear B11 at aa wera 
(ae art) Sanz St ferat F 


weatgatar gam ferate: eras Tet 

ae wea fea fata otra aah eTTaCg, 

TS Tesd feoresy CH Wat TET. aeT ATH 

vita caraaa feta ahact tare ae qe: 1 exe | 

nee 4 aeafern F tf HY tant. (cia aaa oa fag w) 

ara HA A UH Bret Be HA S 1 Be B one fewer H Ara wH WAT 
ar ata waa @ 1 fcr gad tat we araa ert | ad @ suet fer 
ar yfa @ Sl wer eh ael wer cited fcr ar st om ae wT 


Stas faara adr 


at tart a ae at eae ara ert | saat sae Sha ISA at <firoy 
SAT Fert Se AT LF ST AAS STANT | 

ser ofe fase aarnferdt arora eferar 

wit qaqa qa: wacat am, sPraprazar 

fasre afead ware attera weareraar 

tare efefaear qafta: wet face Ta: 1 vx t 

ararit a ag ven @ ae we sat at tom a @- urea ae 

ofr ga fos set er, ot wt can & fee, geal ar war waite 
er arett & Goss & fer ar AR wena ar ofosa Tar A aikere ETT 
wa tons & faa A TS ae aT EC. 


area ares areitsat fafet aq Sarrsrhearst 

aAUTe wens yeapea Cet Wad Wa ATA Ta: 

WaMrerst TAAL Ue: WAAL 

dreary aarti ara eped afer vse: BvSyat: 1 yxy | 
BRU, SK, SK a a, Apefa, ofa stk waar ea ons cite aeit 
aig seest Aanht ass UH Ts Gos UST FH EU SaHt srafeaat 
ore ward yh cst A TS Ades sik saz wt sara a et 1 ae 
wosus Hae h aa eA Sea A | Taal Bafa sik Bem ani 
an tet es oft 


TAT HOTT FO cathy Yaahotiy set aaret 
sreaTysat Heat era ot fara: tte Arex fee 
aeary: YN Ty Gah afesaters Sif wars: 
wey wre, at afae: ventas weears Frafaara: 1 exe t 
SA HOT eH Sa Hl gear TATA ET A gue aw atk Taw sitet 
ya oft trenfx fee ser eu st tim ga dey & aa dae ae a 
wget a waist BA ara A) Taw ya st fae sar wif siz wara 
we otk a 8 ot oferm 81 Tet oy ater at arf (dost eT 
WaTaN) WT st am sraafsra (fay) & awit at cart ax a ara 
(few, Sf ott tft He) Sx fare 
gatas atenraa wa sofa waa Pras 
" Sift: want fa-qera seq weed Fa: Yarra: 
Tarte a ay woe Fae Ae: Aaa Taha: 
star feed aire Pret wars Maret fra: 1 eve | 


~ 


SUMS GUT ey 


ata afar ae aft waR & aa YR e fae cet a fara 
Beet a pi ax aa Tete wt sea ea at | Saw stkea WA 
sframery sera fas, chery & aU Tat A stag signa ud sia 
ae aa a1 sey seta Ff frara fen, fee safe am at 
qT Reet Sa waa & fea qs & aa a 


Prana werd Ware ate aTTGIN TTP we | 
§ eet varmary fee or ga ¢ 1 say We at oft Eger Fe 

a 4 den of @ 1 Gsm (aes) ser fan & ea 4 3 ferent at 
& 1 wen, far sik Fee a aor at AT ana 8) ay area ar 
Urea wea A AY aera gfe at 21 aenfe wy at on B frat we ax 
Wea, we Set aTATA H awit H artoy HE eT 

arait frrariea (¥93q) Tat Hell Saas 

adda (3x) at Sor aw ya wWascrnfasad 

we: Tart aft waite aah Tor 

Tera: woger Ste Wray aed A ad Aa fe | ewe t 
. fer ad weae FA ae gar ax ad a staf 8 AA we ca 
Ware SB AL Te UPA Teel ah Ist A Bsa Hare Wot Br Vt ufosa 
wen ai 1 aif wre dt age ada ae Bae 


fraraafeat afte afear a a faster yar 

tan 7a See se ate ahaa wy sahay 

om, fred fear weet arent Warrara werfeth: 

TAHA aelitat TENA LEH, FaerGT Tat: 1 eyo | 

| fast & at velar & fe ca oes a awe aa andl at Haat aT 

Sr & aren freer ret at 1 ca fats & fea cea, are, IS 
dent sirdye anfe A dt ort weet ows at ard feat 1 sik cM 
SH aad Ba ale Dean fen sae wn ay 3? 


fart TRA wareae wera sat 
ae ado sa Merrit SareMATS THT Ue | 


SUE fosra ety 


foard we ud far (aga & age sh) et srarer SPT, We, aay 
att saat af 4 RR aca at ogee fart 8 1 ata: FH StH onfaeen 
Hom 1 ga faa cio & at wersii AF a afeer Ciena an 
SITAR AE BIS AA SA | Me Nha & ay @ fawaa sang 
ware gat | ata a 


ata oft fara war ve ay ado eft 
Wita: Ayal aaa TAA HATTA, 
Taree: GF (ys) Fgh (4) erate wah ae: 
WARIS We: Vpeg facrad: ferfrTery 1 242 1 
Tifa & stan wera Ve BA & are fara cin fas ara & 
We sik vfs B1 yaw ew vs 4 Afsert F 81 ae wT aaa 
Bat 1 aga fea aw soar Ww ae AA gears | 
Fea werarst area wear Waferg: WAT 
afte serrata fares: Hreryarera: 
Areren qerrrHes Pearcdisceat Aare CAT: | 
a whe: feat wre ret Fit A HOTT TAHA AA 1 Ga I 
_ afe @ wera ort oe & asa wT feara SEI aT, GAT Hret Vere 
@ oft ofae tars aq ar wea eek are, wt wea 8 ga an wea 
ara, Arearaa it det sieve ww Ter ret Ah HTT TTT, 
BOT HT WI HLA |S | 


arene sha Bepfed sefarar ae at waht: 

Hret BASTSy wT Aft areas we: 

fara a: ufa age, vata af WATE STE: 

Mise a: ferret qq safe warheee Ateterarer at: 1 guy | 

sr ses ey ae der eafa 4 fore ania vst ar aradt wT 

BRT AAA We We wea & fed ve afd wl a aed Ha z, ST az 
ait ore W faa a ured wea &, AL Sa ofa wt car & fea erat 
art Ber SR HT sy He A AA & fare Wan wea B, fata ate act 
acta aft & aa varie 2, SEAL NGS cM serge 
forrsTarst Te | 


Weal waa JWT HI WAT 

Arex Wer eat afrashs fs 

‘fagra ato safes are are 

army sata fre (2s) fra: Ware (204) 


suger ay vt 
Sa ver sera & vies Tae A se at ae BRT TT 
ai of 4 warm aa ort at fren & fae fea faa cto a 
SIMS SI Ww al GHA AAA EST | 
RAST: CAPA FE AC AM 
Warts Wea (Vv) AT FUTAT: (xe) 
WATT TAT: BA AMT Tart: (Roo) 
As Toa AAT TAT: 1 AH | : 
2G aha GST eaek ae eS 
FH oo Veiley EAE Ser Tat Ta FHA YH eit YRC Her 
= | 


oe BIT: 
Aretha HTT ST FTI AT TSR BT Par 
Tere Fe ae YS AA Ufa er Teel ae 
aq ad ftir oar: Hrarqeat vfs 1 eye | 
anf ant aa 4 dre ot cafata Sa So ae ara or ot afew 
St ara @ 1 fez AX Se am ahs ava afesa ar en Hea FI ott: 
wet "hora H staf t a aet qrugta ¢ Ta faa aim waa Asie 
Rm 
Wevs AVS Fea Tet SAAT PIs Hsia: sft: 
aise Frente feerara aes ett Prefs: wre ot: 
CHa Tae WAT Fariors Ch-gT AN: Wag: 1 WUC I 
foara cdo we waren a er 81 Safes & da eee A fra 
al AS Sa aN S| aH Test ane aed ofaa B 1 Stents fees & 
az we Fe St Wet a ae wes fees H BG A et fase & | aS 
wars AF geal fee %, Ta wa areata BA ara gees 
ufesdt & ereft dara at at wa fee aa aera wR 
ace efaa ma qarnfe aatactt ux 
mae afar Frag TTT BA wus | 
dtef ust a: ae ae ue Hoes BET B 1 EK ait Ramet ar wa 
Ua & By Waa WTA St Taa UST Vd & 1 Tat years aa FH 
a Serra et | 


CUS faera ada 


“was taea agtet & eraaee< (ter) WT WTS 
arert ant yarn fre war Tere ATATAT 1 tg | 
Wee tars & F ad sata wes veee H arieitd ara Hoy 
weet fafa wera a ga yerH a TAA TA Eat | 


SPDR 


Ufefors 
| Wees aferenrea (ream ferenrz) 


| gd WenTyT-Ax vette 
(3) war gel- 9 8 sre an ah aat Ff aero 

ad fea} ad | fea 
g 3E4| &, R62, GR 
_ 1938 | &. WSVAG 
2. R0RG | 9 BUELL 
¥. V¥ER | C. BW ors 
u ¥C2%E | 8. —- 32C{933 
&. 2WS2| i BI FEY, AUR 
\9, NACHE 1930, URS 
é. BVP]. 20,RU99E 
A B29 | ¥. R¥,E R084 
R90. FEKR | 4, RE,AEAVY 
20. - WROW] &, WBA 
30, YAKS | V. WYE,CVL 
Yo, 8,820 | 6 8AK WR, 0 Wo 
\o, 82,262 | & BI BR, LB, FI 
Go, BWV |X AACA FAM 36,42, 40 
\90, | BUYERS] 2 193,04, 294 
co, | BWV | 3 20,8, 419,196 3 
R90. 32R3 | ¥. ¥E, Ro, Bho 
2 at FERRE | TAPER EA 
93,042] & BB, WH, HAG 

2. FoR, 49d | WES, LL2 
B¥E, FOR] ¢ VW, 2, 908 


¥Eo faart ator 
ef fer | ad fe 
2. BWI9B,ACc | 3 Ro, RU919,8 2,6 e¥ 
ec BR, 2, cg | ¥ R¥,G 803,40, 248 
2 930,42, 942 | & 8C,2E, IVIL 
2. ORG | & WVLHU4ILR 
¥. R¥,E%,03,403 | 9 VW GE CLL YRGY 
W. RC,2E,ABBVC | C W,IYOV,00,4RR 
& BWA, AY | 8 3BCV,33CC,063 
9 WUECLLBO | LAAT —--BEHAGCIOU EE 
é BB VYoWVoou | (Ro Bf) 3,0, RGHR,2VE 
g BY CWICCR | 3 8,08, 41996, 28,8 ¥¥ 
& Fad (TA AGRE, 4 AUC 4E | ¥ 8,862 0,34,02,483 
2 93,04,20,423 | & R,C2E 29 39C, 22 
3 ROR,UVVE,2ER | & REEL RES R AAS 
% R¥E,R0,34,02E | BAYECFV 23,4 3V 
4. VEYEYLBVCR | 8 2,20190,04,204 
&. WRUGYHRS | 2 3,26)93,22,60,33 
\9, BWUESLYWVG | LIGA —-B/HUBW,CW4E vez 
b. WBZOjV,04R | VSM) VBO4LIOGLAVEI 
@. BWI9B,2,C0¢ | 3 20,2489,6 ES, ¥¥¥ 
& HHAHAS) BEG, YEG | ¥ 8¥E%,03,40,24,8 26 
2 930,42 194,830 | & RC,2E,VV,3VCZYOU 


BUTS PITT BT: YATE (HOTS ATT BHT BeAr -BlE 

BT A) - , LY, Yo, 4 VB VER 

. wafer AAT B ~ BC, RG, BB 
TETAS: (HE FT HT SSM) RC, A BB 


TEA: SE | (HAT 
fort 


9cee 3.) at Ute & vem fer ar Ree We Rarer & 
rete & Wes fet aa at Sat Sal at TET Te Tf Frenret ae 
aad ae at qa (Ule ar aie snes at fafa) Saas 


ro 
° 


Qo 


Co | 


vo fA 
ay 0° 


“ron © Mf cK ww Aa 


PA GCMs Kk ww Ww =p 3 


WER 


(2). faite anftren-nera va & ves 
ufst onfe | fer 


© 10 148 Ig Ito 
© 1% IGS IRE Io 
© 12 IGI9 12¥ 13k 
© 12 IKE 132 IR 
© TY IGG Xo 14 
© 14 IGY I¥Z IR 
© 1G IZ IG 18k 
© NS 143 14 FRE 
© 12 IGR IRB 182 
© 18 1K IRR SR 
© IRS PSR SQ ARB 
© IRS IW 14 IG 
8 IF IRE IRE big 
R IRS ISG PS IRE 
R IRS IS Ro 1k0 
QS IGS 13R IKR 


I IRS IGT GR IBY, 


IRS PEVARG URE 
3 Ie 133 13 149 
& PRG NS 183 14G 

8 IG PO 1HO. IK 

RPS ARK IRM IBS 
BARVVS 1S Io 


WIRY ARR ISR IY 


RO IRS IGG 1S TSR 
21S IW IQR 13S 
& IRD IR IRR ABE 


<a 


PA CM FS K ww 


§ aad 


ust ante 

f IRY IBGE IS 133 

& IRZ IVI URS Is 

2 IRE IVS IRS Ko 
QV IVY IW 13S) ew 
LIS lo IM9 M9 

& 12 13& IGS [Ro 

% IRS 183 1G 1GY 
RO IVY PS IVE W’S} 
19 1RO IRE IRE 18 
SIRE IQ 134 1BY 


VGA EA) SAV IB ARR AC 


oA C6 MM & K ww w 


LARS 1S MVE IS 
& SIG IRI AVE 

RO 12o NY IGWB Iho 
3 1G 18 133 123 

9 IRV ARV 1S 1KY 

© IS IRQ PSS 132 
BIE BW IFO 1 
ZIP ING GY 138 
& IZ 13 AGL IRC 
¥ lo Is ME 149 

Q IRL 1B I 1RE 
RO IRL IRS 13S RG 
€ 1R 134 133 Ky 

& IRS IGS IRS IBY 
2 IRY N91 183 

© 12 RZ ARO 142 


WER frend ato 
fea ufs safe | fer Ufa ante 
RPT FIV VBS VE ABY | VBIS —-Fo 1G 13 rey 1R2 
2 (GA AE) & IG IVS BZ AR] 2 EE ARZUG BO IX 
3 NG IW 188 BX] 3 & IRS IRS 14 13 
¥ @ 1Yo 139 1G Wy | BY IRE IW lo 1 
& RV IR IRE IRR BE & 3 IR PSR PSE lo 
& & IVY. IGY IRR M9] & RIF IVE IVY 1B 
9 & IRS? IBY GY 13C | 9 BV IG VS INE IAW 
c BIRT URW ARV Mo] < ZIVV VT LR 1Bl9 
g © IRB IGBTS RV] VIR IGK WE KR 


¢ ade & My 129 13Z A 


va & ga (afer ate) 
BMH Brat To lo Jo lo lo 
SLUTS STAT W - 92 12S 1G [Ro ME 
Tet eat Ferearr SHAE - KF IZ Io Io IB IRR 
| BIE Sh area Th trae - 2 12 138 136 
SUTTER FF Theat - 2 126 Psa 1G 
BT - GRR 
AMET TH GS - Ete 1G a 
St TeaRT ya) at sored fereat aMfe 2 120 ig 


THUS AT - 0 19 KF te IR 


3 


mAAKR CM © Kwa vw a 
f°) 


AA 6 MF K Ww Lr 


(3) areuft 3- mean ae 35 Wess 


ufet ante 

© 183 180 13¥ 142 
© 12E IW IR ww 

% IS 13k Sw BE 

RIV PQ UVES ARS 
2 IK IK? IGY 120 

2 IBS 13 IRE 12 

ZN IVY ISS 

3 1K 1 13S 1G 


| BARS IBY RZ WS 


S IAW WH IVS WK 
C IRD BR 1B 18 
R14 1819 IRE AR 

& 1219 13 128 1B 
BIS} WF 13.123 

2 INO 13W 142 Iv 
“& IRV Io Yo IY 
RZ US IG RZ ARGY 

3 URK AGR IRS IG 
19 1219 13% 1G IE 
RB IRH IRE 1RZ 1B 
BW IRV AGW [QO 1kR 
9 TRO TRI IVS 1G 
3% IRS 1Ro 133 1KR 
RW IVW IWS Wo 13S 
19 123 IRE WW 12H 
2 ART LT IGS ARN 
R81 1% lo IKE 


fea 


aS a 


x 


AAA 


3 
% 
& 
& 
\9 
c 
8 
g 
g 
3 
% 
& 
& 
\9 
c 
8 
ae 
a 
3 
% 
& 
& 
9 
c 
8 


(<a IN) 


afer ante 

“19 1G IRL NS PY 
VAR MZ 1G IY 
BURY 13 1AZ 1M. 
S IRE IRE IR IGG 
© 12 MSG 13S 1B? - 
9 12 1€ KE IRR 
I IRY IWS QW 1g 
BIRO PSS I WS 
¥ 1% 1Ro 12 133 
© 13 IJV (VG IVR 
© 9 12 13¥ 133 
© IZ IRQ NG MKS 
© IRB 14 IZ 1G 

© 1819 13G IRE IRR 
© IRL NY 1¥Z 13S 

© IR¥ 13F lo Gy 

© IRS 1NO IRS IRR 
BIR WR 13H AVS 
RIG IR 1G WH 

2 1% 1G PSH IO 
3 124 13 132 IX 
BIXO IK IRO 14S 
& IRE IY 123 Ie 
9 1% 1N19 IE IW 
SIG 130 18 1R¥ 
RB IVY PZ AV 1G 
FO IE IGY IGY 183 


MEX | frara edu 


GFT AR ARV Po Ve | VMS —-&_ RR Io 14 1¥B 
VTA —-VWT IW 19 1BW 1419] 2 BIRT IGY IVR IRE 
AMG —- AR AG UWA ARG | 3 % IE 1M 1X0 
% YO IRE 134 1S 143] ¥ BIG GL 13S 143 
4 FO IO PSR WWW IRI] & RO 1G IRS 133 1BE 
G Zo IRV GR IVY Iho | & CNL M9 12S1RG 
\9 FO IG IZ IQR ARC | & IRO IRY IRB 1 
é @ IWS 1VO 1S MO] C 3 1k 1B IIo IVE 
8 BIR IRS WIG & © IRR IRV IVI ARG 


QHZ IW 138 10 182 


BI St H AZ ST Fat o Io 10 lo lo: 
HUT ANAT F,, 0 13 [Ro 12 iB 
Tifa feral ame O20 IBY IK 13 Ke 
TS Yo IRS 
SRAT FAT STAG BB IEG 
| Gas aru Tis aris 3 ge 18g 1RZ BE 


PARA GCM So kL ww x 3 
° 


Aa 
° 


Ro 


ADA A GM F Kw A 


WEY 

(%) age anol - aa weled ves 
ue ante | fer Ufe-snfe 
© 10 1G IO IKK | RBA —-B NYRR [SS 1B 
© lo 123 IRV PR] 19 IRQ ($3 IRE IVY 
© 10 120 IR 1S¥| 3 VV SG IGA, 1GR_ 
© lo 128 I¥3B 132 | ¥ IAG 1% [VY 129 
© fo 1383 IW 1BB] & & IRE ISS 13 1 
© Jo Yo 14 129] & LO IL 1RO IG IVR 
© lo IME IE 122] @ 1A 1B Io 12S 
© lo IGRI IRE| C & IROIGY IRS 14K 
© 18 lo 12 IRV] 8 SIRI (VE VG 13 
© 18 1G SZ IK] 8 HAT 2 13 13S 1G 1k 
© 12 183 13S 189 | (ASM 2 Mg (RE (RQ IgV9 
© 13 Ho [VG IRE] 3 BIO IWS 18?S IRE 
© 1% 1 INE IW] ¥ BMY 1B IW 1BG 
© 1% IBY 1G IRE] GY & IRS 120 130 SY 
© 18 Wo 14 132] & | EG IRV WS 1BE_ 14 
© INS M9 1¥3 13E | © 19 IRQ IRE YZ 1 
© 12 IGY 1B IKL| ZS IRS IY KZ QO 
© 120 1 1A Ivo] & RO 1Z [SY AGY IVS 
© 1RR IC INO NGI] YAMA —_.—aAV IG IVR IX IW 
© IRV IRE III] YO UNV IWV AR 14 
RIB RW 1BR1Be | 3 IRS IR US IRA 
R IRW 1BY IZ Rw] ¥ & IRGH IRS IG NSS 
BIG Po 1G 1S] & 2 IR ISG 9 1G 
2 1G ISS GIRO] 9 12 18 12 TSR 
2 129 IGS 12B 12] 9 & I2¥ 129 Qo io 
RRS IW ARE G3] ¢ & IRO IKE IXY IBV 

BIRO 1B BV ISG] -@ 


S IWS 1S 1RZ 1 


SEE Rrara at 


fer uta ante | fea : TS site 
gfrq KIB 1B0 Ae 13R| BRS & IIR RG Id 
Wea) «= ZW lo [RVI] 2 RO HO TY [Ko 1k 
2 2 1RO 1Ro RZ IRV] 3 3 IVY NG IVY 12Gq 
% WIRY o 14S 13 | ¥ ~ Io 18 Mo 133 
4 2 189 13K IRV NBS] & FARGIR 1G SR 
& © 12V 12129 1K] & \9 lo 12 1Z0 Ne 
\9 SIV 13R MWR RE] Y © 1K 2G IGG [IGE 
é 2 IR?™} 12 IGE NG] SC -& 120 18 122 1G 
., IR ABW ANO ABW] FO ANY ARR AWE RY 


20 FNS FIO 1B NV 12 


ATS CHT BIT BH art T a UH Safe x to 13G lo lo ALOT 
BT FAT Yo 12 lB¥ 4S 1 The FAA o 1G Mo GY 138 12 BE 
32133 AMAT FETA o ING WC 


a 


ARP RA GCM SF KWAI Yr mY 
° fo} 


A A 6 MF K Wa Pr 


(4) Wem thet & wes 


ufet ante 

© Io IRR 1R& IRo 
© 1% 12 1K3 lo 

© 12 13¥ 128 130 
© 1214 SY to 

© 12 1319 122 130 
© 123 12 138 12 

© 13 [Mo 1& 13 

© 1H IRV ABV AR 

© 1S SIGS 132 
© 1K IY IY AR 

© 120 IR?% Iho 12 
© 1X4 ISR RG AB 
© 120 tKI9 Yo [4 
© IRE IVR WG 1G 
BIR IRE 10 Wg 
RIG Wo 1Gy IZ 
RIV IGWH FRO IF 
% IT IA WY 10 
RIRV ARB [Ko ARR 
3 IVS WE!) 1Qo 123 
& INO 12Q 1B0° IBY 
& IRS 13& Wo 64 
€ IRQ Io Iko 143 


RO IVY IG IP 1S 


© 1% PER ARR IRS 
BRS IRQ ART ARR 
BIRR 139 13k 


aad 
2X (TA TARR 180 133 149 P64 


3 


% 
& 
E 
\9 
c 
8 
§ wae 
R 
3 
% 
& 
& 
i) 
c 
8 


z 


afer ante 

& IRS 1S PER GY 
Qo IAS} 13 123 Is 
& 122 1k 14 Mo 
ZIRE 1G 9 133 1 
J IRO 1 IZ IRE 
C IRB ZO 122 IRo 
IIS IRL IG IVD 
9 IRV 1NZ 1BG 1G 
BIG ING IRE IGS 
& 120 WE IGS 143 


ZC lo Iho IGG 132 
2 IR NG IKK 130 
GIRL VW GY 1B 
WAR PS IGZ ARE 
ROI IGS 142 IC 
IRVING IG IZ 
© 12 132 WS ILS 
BIR WS WWE WWE 
% RY 13S 1319 132 
Z IS .ARS IRE 12S 
31K IRS 1\G IG 

@ IAW IF 13 14R 
SIRE IGS IKR 13 
VW I WS PV 1B 
& 12 132 130 18 
© IVY IRS I~ IGE 


¥EL | feara ety 
» fer | Uist ania 


fea TAS anfe 

GATT = ANE RC NV IR] A HS YZ 12 1RE We 
2 (KA ARE) 2 1G 136 1R4 1Q¥] 2 € 1G 12 133 14 
3 Yo 12 IG¥ 123 14 | 3 © 18 13 Iho IGy 
% & 123 122 130 wo] ¥ BARI 1h NG 1G 
4 2 18 130 IBS IAT J 1R4 1G IRY Iho 
& B IRS IVS IG 1RN] | © IRE ND ISR beg 
\9 & If 1G 143 142] 9 WARIS’ WKS IY 
es © 12G 1A IV 1B] LIS IYO 1VH VB 
<.. IRS WSR IZ UVR & © WS IRV -IBR IWR 
RO MNS | [0 INV KF 13R 

Tier at ga Uist safe 


BINT Hat H - RY IVS [UR ML lo 
SALOTEE WITT TH te 12 1A¥ 129 1R 
Tirret ait Sree afar fore ante W - 3g 12e 130 1G re 
BAT ated Bt eT St Wale ¥ 1G 14 Lo 
BOT Bea W AMT SHI Ue o 12S 14s se 
BUOyer FY TTT Shi Weare - & ho 1 162 123 Wet 
0 IRS I4R IZZY 
Tee GIT GG 
aT Be Ges 
Uidalkt G9 
SMA HAT STE F INF [ve 


d 


eae i i ee | 


“AA GC M&F K Ww 


(&) qayia & ves 


ue ante | fea 


© 1% 14 132 IRE 
© 12 18% I¥ 132 

0 IRR IRE IRE KE 
© IRE IRR AR WS 

© IO 1S ISR ZW 
© 1¥ 133 123 13 
© 1S 13S 1H 1GB 
BIKAR’ 1B 
RIG PER IG RG 
BIRO GY IRI IVR 
VIR WHO TH ARR 
BW LQ IE IC IS 

& IRQ ISR Ro 1G 
B IRS IAG 143 IRE 
6 14 13Q ING Ils 
BING 1 13S IC 
RO 19 12Z Ik 1B0 
© 1 IRL IRB IRR 
R IRS IRR USE IQR 
31S 1% 133 
¥ IW NR [Ro 13& 
& IRE HY NS 128 
2 1G 1S 1G¥ 122 

RB IBY IRI PVR 1NB 
BR IBY IRE ARC 14 
& 12 KO IRY 14 
TP IRR G1 1S 


{WK 


0 AK 


BER 


. aie ang 
BA IVWG WS WR 
IRS 13G 1B 123 
& 1G IKR IRE IWS 
& IZ IRL ILS VE 
FO IV AIRS 13: 1s 
2 IRS WE 1KQVIE 
& 12& IY [Yo Iho 
RX IS IRI ARE 13BR 
3 IR [Wo IRS 123 
]IVIGSY 1G 144 
SIG IGE 13 IVS 
© IZ IGS IRO Se 
J AZZ IWR IO IBS 
MY IRY Iho 13Y 13¥ 
© 1219 KS ISR IR 
6 120 ME NE 123 


BARB PGW GY NS 


- © IRE MSZ AR ARR 
€ IRS VS IF Ns 

& IRS IVI RS IAW 
VARS 1B AVG ARR 
RV IAW WY 13E tS 
€ IRS IRE PSH BE 
& IRS 1G IGY 183 

I IW 1S 13 14Q 
RV UWS IVA IV 14S 
2 AW INO IRD WG 


ue ania 

& IRE IKR IRR ARR 
RX RZ PWR AR RY 
& I2o 13¥ 133 139 
RW IMS IRE IY WR 
% IRS 1G IRE 18 
RZ VS 1S NG IRQ 
& IC 10 132 124 
RV PSIG AR IRC 
& 1% 183 Io Iho 


re AA GC MM SF K wa fo 


° 


frara at 


uf ante 
FO IRS [BY IRR 
QB IW ILS IVY WS 
€ 1G ISG BE IE 
9 12¥ Io I Ie 
& 122 IK& lo 120 
& IRS 13BV IVY 12 
% 12 1G 1B 1 


J IR IRS PSR QE URE 


XT UWS 12E NGS AS 
% IR IGR lo Io 


er Viter ear BUT Bh Sra W et - & 18 134 1 lo 


y» BLOT BT TT RO 12S 1V¥ IV 12 


ie ger ait Siren afer force ante W - Bwe 132 12G N9 129 


BITC TH SrA H Wo 1G kv lo BUT Bet A UAT 0 122 13k 12? lo 


HUTS AT AGG (NG [Elo (LG HUN HI UG 
© 1RZ 19 IRS K&S 


TEEN VLC Ue BM BER BS LL 
SURAT HET SPE - Qo 123 12q 


4 


A PRA GCM fF Kw A Po my 
°o.U€~°# 


PA © MF K ww 


SSR 


(9) WEIMER e wes 


ute ante 

© lo 1X IKE 1G 

© 10 12 IGS 128 
© 10 1R¥ IGW9 IRE 
© 10 IRS IKE IRR 
© 10 IK IGG IR 
© 10 128 IG IBY 
© 10 IRS IGR IRS 
© 10 138 IKY ISG 
© 10 IX 1G IK 
© 10 I¥Z Iho IKE 
© 1% 138 ISR NKR 
© 12 12% NB IK 
© 13 IRS IRQ WE 
© 1% IS 1k KR 
© 1% IGS 14 1319 
© 14 SC GE 133 
© 1& 13S IY 128 
© NG IRS 13S IRE 
© 1S IRS IRB I 
© IRE 9G IGE 13 


. © IRS IKK IRS IG 


BIZ 1RZ GY IO 
R IRR IRR ARE IC 
R 1RZ 1K IGE lo 
RARE?! 18 IRY IRR 
JIE IRE IGY IKR 
US PVE ABW 1G 


fer 


Q ea 


wen GC M £ K 


afer ante 
2 12Z 1S 1GZ 139 
& 1G IRE 1S 19 1R¥ 
2 IR IBY Ko 14k 
RV ND IVS 1S [Vo 
BIW IVS RWW 
SIRS 1W IW AW 
9 IRV IBY IBY 1S 
Qo 1S 13S 1S 1Gy 
© 1219 IXY 12 132 
3120 1S IGE IL 
19 IRR 139 IG IRs 
RV IQ ARE IS RY 
I IRI IRE PSY 133 
& IR¥ IS Io 182 
FO 1S IGZ 1BE Iho 
BIE PZ ABR IGS 
& IRE IRV ARE Wy 
ZG IVOIRE VY 
© IRS IR IRR IW 
g IRE IRS SZ 
VIB IW 1S AV 
RIV WW WE 134 
SIRO IE VE IGS 
GIRS IGE IE IRR 
& 1219 1K 128 IVR 
19 1G IRS IGR IR 
C NRZ IVY IVD 132 


W982 , fear atu 


far ust snfe | fea afer anfe 
go @ IRL 1B IBS IQ | RBMS —-F IVY BH IIS 1 
Qo & 123 WG NO 1H2] Q 19 RZ IVY IWS Iho 
zo SITS Wo [SV IZ] 3 & IPG WE 14S ILE 
Yo 2 IRE IVY IAHR IE] & 3 IRR IVP 1319 12 
Ko 20 129 [Yio XZ 1¥3 | & 2 NG IGS 1219.16 
Go CIR ANVARB UB} GRR AB ARR GE IRQ 
\g0 & IZ 1G 149 13K] € IRF 1S IBY IGE 
co 312 1 13 132] ¢ BIW WH 1G 122 
Ro © 128 IRQ IG IRE Y IRQ 1RoO 14s ACE 

| qo TING AE 13% 182 


BM Stat WG AT Yq © 12 149 Io Io 
BHUOMT H IE BT Yq o 1 MSG 1 I 
Te ait Aran wer Tif ferta SMTi Ie My IFO 12 
BIOL Sree A TR SAT TS & 1G (WO TA 2 1 IG 
HUTS H WE BHT Ae 19 129 lo [YG Tle 2 1NF 1} 184 2 
WRIT VS ATT BIT YRS 
BE VIRB AMAT GET Bf o 192 132 


A CM fF K war 


92 
(¢) We TET aafers wes 
| (29 at TIT 96 at Bere) 
fea aie anfe | fer ue ante 
g © 10 1H 1&8 1G | & I IVS PE IVE IRQ 
2 O10 19 IGE IR] RFMT —-- VRB IW 1GY 
3 © 10 1B IGI9 IRB} 2 & IRE IS GR IRB 
¥ © 10 188 IGE 123] 3 ~ IZ IBY 19 1Ro 
4 © 10 1R¥ IGY IRS TY RX IIR 1K} My 
& © 10 128 IG¥ 13S] & 1G IB 13S 14 
\9 © lo 138 143 Wo] & SIRS IVS 1BY Wo 
c © lo 13% 142 INE | 8 19 122 138 130 IQ 
g © 10 WY 1GZ IKI CS 20 1 138 1Q& 12Y 
Qo © lo 8 Iho 149] @ © 129 I¥¥ 122 lo 
Ro © 1 13S MR IGY| Qo 3 IO MKS IW Iwo 
Ro © IR IRS IBZ NKR Qo 19 188 13S 134 IBY 
So © 13 188 IRB 14o | Zo BV EV ARG KD IRA 
yo © 1¥ IR 18% Isa | Wo 2 IW IW 1RV iz 
go © 1% 1KB 14 IBY Go BIW AR IRS IWY 
90 © 14 NZ IGE BQ] Go Qo 1 IGY IE ISR 
go © 1G 132 I Io} 90 VIR’ SH 1S IRS 
Ro © 19 IRS 13Z 138] Zo & IRE IBY IRV 1VY 
a © 1S IRS} IRB 134 Fo @ NB 12B Wo Io 
© 1RG IBGE IGS IS | RAT — 1A NZ 1H 1B 
© IRS IGK IRS PES] 2 R IRE IRE 1KY IRC 
R1R IVR IGS 1S] 3 2 IBZ 13?S) 143 WR 
IRR IBY ARO KR] BIRT UG 1GZ IRE 
Z IRS 1Ko 1GLB 1RZ| & SAW AS 1G 
BIR 18 1B 13] & IR IVIG- WE 1X19 
1G 19 IGE 1B} & 1219 130 SY SB 


ue anig 

9 184 PSR [BV BR 
€ IRB IGE PEO IRR 
BZ IRV AS IBS? [Ro 

GIRS IRS VE IRS 
BIG IRS} IGY IRS 

R IRS 13S 132 1B 
RX lo 1S IO SC 
€ IRIGY ISS IKE 
& 12K NG 19 18 

Ee CREAC MMLC 


fea 
Ro 

§ Hg 
z 


3 
¥ 
& 
& 
\9 
c 
8 


to Hs 


frara afer 


afer ante 

© 128 1QE 3 IV 
Ro 18 1BE 1 13 
13 IRI (SZ VB 
& IY PIS Iho 
WIR IG IRE 1Q9 
212 12 WE 13 

© 18 132 IR Wo 
FO IR IRB 13k 1s 
IRI MO 1G 4B 
& IR IV IVY 130 
Y 2G 13 13BE Is 


BINT ST TS ST Fa o 122 1G 
BOT ATT H TRS BT Fa 0 13 (RF [30 fg 
Te ail tren ale fera ame % ye ty Pos Tse 

BIR Sy Bret H WS BHT FT 4 IVF RE 12 
SHUT H YS WeaOr BT FTG IVS AGL 1 


BIT Ro 


BE ¥3RB 


SVT He BPE o 1 Mz 


ee SS OO ee a 
° 


is 
(9) Ye vier & ves 

ufat snfe | fer ust ante 

© 1% 138 19 132 | & SAR & IRZ NG IZ 14S 

© 1B IRISH IRE] 2. YO IN IVY INF 14k 

© 1% ME 122 1K3B | 3 SAG IAW IVS 14S 

© 1G IQW IZ© 132] ¥ BIL? IR?S 138 14? 

© 12 1o 132 IAL & 3 19 134 IWS 14g 

© 18 13& WH PG] & € ZZ WW? 148 IGE 

© IRV IVY 1WZ 124 | RIB Iho 1S GE 

© 122 WRIA] ZS 19 1& IKI9 12S IGG 

0 WW IRE IS? Wo] & © 128 WY IVS GR 

© IRE IR IRE IRS | Yo G IV IRL 13S GY 

& 12 1F 1313] o © IZ ARB IRS VL 

2 12S 13 WC IGS | Bo & 13 13¥Y 148 PWR 

21 1QIG IRQ] Yo © 1 IVE 138 1BE 

2 Io 1G IRB 1Z0 | Ko & IG IGS IRB 130 

3.1& 9 1319 ZT Go © 19 18 IGE RW 

3 122 12 I4Y 1G | Bo GIS 12Y® 138 ie? 

WIS Io 1Zo IW] Lo © 18 133 1S 1QQ 

W IW IRL IW WR] Ro E180 IY IGS 1G 

1X0 IRV ISZlo| RAT —o [R._IGR 13S Io 

RO IO 14 IRE lo} 2 © 1%B IGZ IRE lo 

Slo 132 IR lo | 3 2 1G PR IGS Jo 

@ IZo Iho [42 lo} ¥ Z IG I¥E 1319 lo 

BIR 1B BR 10 | & & IBS PSB VG 1B 

E18 IRE IRE to | & VIR (BS WY 1g 

% IRV 1 AX lo} 2 IZ IIE 13 Al 

& IRL LY Jo! ¢ 3 1G 133 INL 

B10 1GY IRE NWS Z BIR] IBS GRAZ 


afer omfg | fea 


2 IRS IE Ro IR 


19 IRS} 143 Io 12] 


ZW IAS 12%B 130 LY 
3 IW IVY 1B: 1K 
\9 1209 IRV IB0 IE 
BV IE 13F lo 9 

3 IRE IG 130 12 
9 124 132 lo 1k0 
BL IVY AGS 130 188 


zt 


A A G MM £ K wW A vO 


wre 
° 


Prana ato 


ufer snfe 
3 IVS Ie fo 1VQ 
9 IRS Iho 10 1R¥ 
VV IVI IBY Io 1BR 
3 19 Po lo i 
1912 14 IR to 
FO IAG [QO IY IWR 
I IO IKE IF IVY 
& IG IQ IR IRE 
90 IR SG IL SE 
2 1¥ 10 12 Io 


BOT 8 Stat HT Yew Vile Hr Fa 2 122 12 Io lo | 
RRO ATT HN MTT HT TT RN RB MY MEY IV 
Ups ait Sfrren wafer ferer ante eq No 19 M89 Ike 
BUA F Yah AT As Qty 1G [SS TAF 1B 1A Io 


RUT, HH GET A 2 thy (9G RC IY TIT R IW IB 1B fo 


We BR 84S Ud BX AVR 
hell Alle ¥ 1s 1o 


Be YW, VIA 


a 


ro RA 6 MM SF Kwara a 
° 


AA 6 M&F K war 


(go) Wem yates wee 


ufst anig 
12 lo 1Q9 
1S 10 IWS 
IG IR ARR 
12 12 We! 
© lo 120 12 124 

© 10 122 12 

© lo 12¥ 13 12 

© fo IRG 13 184 

© 10 122 IW IR 

© lo 120 1¥ IRS 

© 10 $0 12 IKC 

© 12 lo 123 12? 

© 1% 1Zo 1818 IKI 

© 18 PSO IRI ARE 

© 12 fo 12 IK 

© 12 120 132 IQS 
© 12 Wo 134 143 
© 13 lo 1¥o 123 

© 13 IRo IY IR 
© 1G PSV IRS 183 

© ARO AR ARS ARG 
© IRF IR AGS IRV 
© IRE KB [WW 1S 
© 120 IY IRB Yo 
© IRF IRE IWR 
© 12E IK IGS 14¥ 
2 lo 1G ISB IE 


° 


°o 


° 


° 


° 


° 


° 


° 


fea 
, OK 


AA CM fF K ww 


“aft ante 

Q 13 1N9 IW. 1319 
2 1G [YY 1G 1Rq 
3 IO IVR IE IGR 
¥ 123 1S 1G 1B 
& IR19 119 123 Ne 
E 12o SY IGR 1G 
19 IAS IVY Wo IV 
J 129 138 Io 
RO IR NG II9 139 
QL (S [BW ME 1VG 
FO IF IF UFR US 
QRZ SY LS WY 
2 IRS IRS 1¥ GR 
9 IRI IGZ IGY 1RZ 
Ce CEEYARE SCRE YA 
& IR 12 IRD WR 

& 1G 13S 1S IGS 

¥ IRL IR AGE (RP 
3 RK (9 12 I%o 
9 IR 13K IRS IG 


RO IVS IVI NG IRR 


I 13 120 WS IC 
GIRS IGS IBV IVE 
ZS SE 1LW VQ 
© FO 133 IGI9 IZ 
WIG IVY 13 s3'9 
& IRV AR AV AR 


Ufa site 


QR NG IGS 1¥ 12e 
YO ING IG 1d IKE 
BARD UY 123 1S 

BIL ISS 18 1GY 

CIR IBY 1A IRE 
19 1219 1S IE 1GY 
& IVY 1B 13R 1We 

& 13 18G 134 14s 
& IRQ 133 Wo 122 


a2 


”A A GC MM LF K WwW vw fo 


Yo 


frat ato 


afar ante 

v IRS 130 PS 1KQ 
BIS 10 1 WY 
QI 13 IY 13E 
HARSY 12 1G 12B 
PX NG 1B MSS IR 
3 1S 1 IVS 1NB 
NRE IBY RY I 
2 1& 1% 14S I4lg 

& IBY IRE XZ MSR 
RO 1WH NG IAS WR 


BT SH ara T MET ar a 2g Lo No 12¥ to 
UOTE H VPT AT FAY IVS (VN VS 

Dif ant Sfren afa fara aif 2 lo 1G te 13 
BIR ah aed F Os Gt We! © 12 12 Io lo 
mBroree TW ViPT Sl We 1S 122 PSs Io 

BT & Sra T VPA Ar UAT 30 bo 1% lo to 


AUT 2 lo 123 1A Iv 


Wee BT WCU9 Ud BX Ba9 
BE QoWwWEo AMAL Heil Bfeo 1& 1G 


i 


PA GM SF K ww Yr a 


PA GC MF K ww 


(99) aRUa(tg) Bus 


ute ante 

© Io 13 120 WC 

© 10 1& IRQ IRE 

© 10 1R IRQ IRQ 

© 10 IRI [SR UR 
© 10 184 143 14S 
© 10 12S 1 IE 

© 10 122 IR& 13¥ 
© 10 TRY IRE IRR 
© 10 122% 1319 Ik 

© Jo 13k Io Ike 
© 18 12 IBY 14S 

© 1% 134 123 Iho 
© 12 19 128 Ive 

© 12 132 148 18S 
© 13 120 WO IK 
© 12 ISR 134 139 
© 1H [RY 123 13¥ 
© 1S WE IRV 13 
© 14 1819 14K 1S 
© 120 134 ISS IGE 
© 184 143 IGS 123 
© IRR IVT AGW 14 
© IRE IRS 14S IRS 
2 IR WY ILE IS 
& ND 1G IGE IBY 
BIRR IR 144 PQ 


~ J 129 TY IG” [Qo 


fea 


§ OM 


a 


ma AK © M LF K ww 


Ufa ante 
BIR NGS IGS 13S 
3B IPH IGS SZ ILE 

& 1 IKE ISB GY 
19 18 IGS 13S 132 

] IRS 1GF_.133 18 
ZO 1G 14S 19 Ig 
© 10 IKE IRI ARY 
I 13 14S 19 13 

3 IRE IGS RR PWR 
& IRF IGS IGS 13S 
RV US IGS IR BS 
¥ 12 IG ILS IGIlg 
FO IVS IGE IRE IVE 
BIZ IQH IRQ BH 

RZ IRS IGS 139 14¥ 
BIS (KZ ISH 1B. 
IS IGZ Iho. 13R 
TIRE IGT IGE [GR 
f IRS GR 1B VO 

& IR PSR IG [Ro 

R IRS 133 18 Ro 
FO IRS IRD 1X2 [So 
91S IRE IVY PSR 

3 IRS 1G IVS GR 

© 18S IG IRQ IS 

QZ iIS} IE 1Qw IVS 

& IRS 13R IAW 1A 


aft snfé 


VIS [J IBV IBS 
ty NO R13 12 

9 124 132 13¥ 146 
Ro 1RY 12 1G 1BE 
BIR IB’ B™S}) IG 
BALI IB 1S GY 

& IF 133 Me 133 
LURE 1 183 122 
BV ILE [BY MSS 14k 


Se ee i i a ae 


a) 
° 


foara ain 


aft anfe 
2 14 IG IRE 10 


— & 1RO 180 133 12 


E14 ING KS 13k 
€ 1% 1 1G AV 
RO 1G IRE IRI B 
1X0 13k 138 12 
3 14 13G 144.132 
180 EVARVAR 
9 12K 1GWO 12S 133 
BIO GH AR 


fasta sper - sat went aa ad aa tines, 76 ath wis ar er 
TAT Fa Yes BH Vile St TOT Vl Weil eS | 

BMT SH Seat TUE HT AE 12 12 WE lo 
SHUUTTRR H Ug HT A B IVT (NF VS IRE 


wife ferent anf (arg ant Sra Tet) 3 120 M9 Mo Io 


BI Koes SFA ell Bla o 1c he 


| Sperferennt & wan 
We Ope ae & fad Goeweil at aot sear we Hh aa Hz ale, 


SCART Teg, TAT BTfe) 
(22) ta H aed BU et AE GE 

(TBH WERT 88 Veils) 
as waive anferasie  xorafase fan 
° © |o lo “RG 2 120 
2 © 12 18 12% 2 10 
2 © 18& 10 218 218 
3 © 12¥ 13% 213 V1 
¥ © 132 PS 9 IGS 2 1G 
& © 10 13& 9 8X Par 
& © ME 120 9133 2 10 
\9 © IKK 143 9 IRo gs. 
aS 9 13 R142 
RB RO NRE & ISG Rs 
FO RIRWIR & IW @ xy 
RQ BARB ARG & 14 ETA 
RR 8 IRS 13% & ISS 2 132 
88 R IBY 18¢ IRR R IRE 
Los R oO 1S BS IGG q IRe 
R48 SY RY % [20 g 183 
Re RKO LN YR 2 Ig 
29-2 IUY IE 3 138 0 1&C 
eA 2 IGS Io 31% ° Iko 
RR I lo ew , 2 136 © 182 
YO —- VIBE IIs 0 13¥ 
bad VIG IRR : & 133 © IRE 
hay VIG IQG Leaks EAC) 
23 VS KR © IRS o 18 
Wo IR’ (BAR o 13 © Jo 


YC 


frera ato 


we» wyanaiante saafoeenfe sx afawd fen 


84 
Ba 
XW 


1S 128 © 1319 (gan) 
2 19 eX R18 

2 1G 1G & PSR 
21S 143 IRR 
2 12 wo 2 Sy 
RIGS IKK 31S 
2 IGE 1319 31S 
RIG IR BUS 
RISC NBR ¥ vo 
S23 SS & IRG 
RIBS IRS & $2 
BARI ALY & is 
Q 12 13¢ & 132 
2 120 1 & 143 
BIZ RZ 9 1R4 
RAG ISS \9 13% 
© 14S 12% 9 XB 
© [Ko 134 CNR 
© ISX IRB o IRG 
© 138 129 € RG 
© 124 14Q C133 
© 1219 12e € 126 
© 12 ISR < VS2 
0 fo lo © |°o 

(92) Va & Gan Weel TS 

Aer aie safe SR era 
© fo Jo SIRE 
© 19 IRE COREL 
© 19S IGR 9 Ro 
© IRI AURA 19 184 
© 12S 1G \9 19 
© 1RG 123 & IW 


© 18 
© IR 
© IR& 
0 14 
© 183 
© 14Q 
© 1&R 
2 Kg 

RIG 
RIRR 
RARE 
R IR 
TSR 
RC 
RIK 
R Ke 
VAR 

Ie 

VIS 

XR 
I IMS 
I IRE 
I IW 
z 19 


Bora Bet fora 
@ IGIg 
Q 1Gle 
@ IGE 
IGG 
& 143 
RGR 


Far Gere safe ARR feren 
© IS3 130 & IC 
© IKo IRS & IB 
© 1KG IGY & Ro 
R13 18X & 1€ 
Z IZ Io & IC 
RIRw I GIRS 
XZ 1Qo 13B9 & 120 
2 IR’ 9 ¥ MC 
2 1R0 13& WARE 
R IRHK IR SIR 
18S Is 2 IR 
RTS 1S 2 183 
Re IG 2 WWE 
2 ISS So VIN? 
RIKO IRC RIG 
RB IKI IWS R IRS 
RIGS 123 0 144 
RQ IGY I © 124 
R44 133 (AeA BST). 0 AR 
BGK IRR © 133 (&) 
QIK IGS 213 
TKS IGG. R138 
ZIG I 2 10 
8 IKOo IRY QRS 
R Pg 1QY zg Ike 
RESIS 3 IRE 
R PSR 1BR 2 14R 
2 1319 Io ¥ Ie 
BIRR IRR MIS 
R IRS} 1319 GIL 
R IRB ARS & IRR 
R19 14e & IKR 


SCR 


Aaa weet safe stant frat 


R IRV IE 

R114 

© 148 123 
© IK2 13¥ 
IS& 132 
13¢ IR\9 
120 IKR 
123 1219 
IR& 1GR 
N19 XB 

lo jo : 


oo 89 89 80 89 98 


Ua St SHH AFA 4S 1d 10 
TVS AT TM SME o No KZ 1G 12R 
(2%) TH H HS AVS 


wets she 
© fo |o 

© IRR IRB 
© 132 Wo 
© 1419 8S 
R IRE SR 
or me.) 
& IGS 123 
VB IAV AG 
VZIAS IRR 
@ PSS IY 
2 lo Iko 
2 IR& Io 
3 IZ 1S 
3 193 WS 
3 IKE IRV9 
VIE 

¥ IRS 13k 


& 123 
& IR° 
& 14S 
9 13 

19 12% 
WIRY 
9 143 
19 2 
19 ISK 
9 8 
© Jo 


SR fare 
Re 1B 
RZ IX 
RQ le 

RC 143 
Ro 133 
RZ IR 

29 Sd 
9 1K 
Bq BN 
Ru IGG 
Ru 1X0 
BINS 
%3 130 
RQ 13S 
Rz 1319 
EL 
g 10 


fasra ator 


sorta tet fercar 


% 1R9 
RR 
Ry 
R Iho 
RIK 
R IGE 
148 
VAR 
VAR 
IIR 
813 


FN Afr ferat 


ACHES) 
GIS IRR 
GE lus 
RE RY 
RY 19V. 
G3 148 
RR IR’ 
Ro 138 
GZ 13& 
KE IR 
KR SY 
Ko 149 
BIS 14\9 
SS TSH 
BX ARR 
39 VE 
BS IR 


Spells & wes 


was 
ra) 
LA 
8 
zo 
baa 
BW 
I 
res 
4 
za 
Qs 
VA 
bas 
30 
ERs 
Exe 
38 
34 
Q4 
3& 
39 
Fra 
88 
Yo 
BR 
SR 
$3 
SS 
84 
BG 


Hee ste 
WIR’™’ IBS 
YW IRE 1B 
S 13 [WR 
BY PSS IV 
SIGS IRN9 
¥ I&Z lo 

& 10 12¥ 


& IR 180 (HAT YS) 


& lo 1KR 
WIGS LY 
SIGE 129 
SIV IG 
SIME IBS 
SIRS IGG 
132 lo 
WAR 1B 
BIRD ARE 
IR 14 

3 ISS IBY 
3 134 1G 
3 Ro We 
3 14 1219 
2 IF IR 


"VARI ARS 


2 IR 1G 
8 IGE PS 
R IRS Ie 
R 1IRR BS 


© 148 13C 


© 138 146 


STR fereay 
¢ IRB 
\9 120 
G IGE 
SW IE 
3 133 
Paes 
© 14G 
© 1°S 


& I8¢ (Aga 


- 2 14 
BIRR 
& IRS 
& 88 
9 1G 
§ IRR 
20 lo 
RR IRS 
BX IRR 
RRS 
BB IRR 
Ru 1X9 
R& Is 
RG NKR 
BS IBY 
RC IR 
RC 1X9 
RV 
BS IRE 
RS Pee 
88 14 


BCH 


war Tame fara 

30 Ig 
2 14 
BZ wR 
R19 1X2 
RR IRR 
€ IGG 
¥ 12 
°o jo 

% 130 
€ 14S 
Bz IRE 
R98 Iho 
WZ IMko 
BENS 
30 132 
3X 13N 
32 IW 
¥S2 IR 
SG ISR 
SZ 12 
UZ IRR 
KY Is 

UW NS 

Ro 18% 
QV IRS 
G¥ 188 
BY IGE 
ACHE GS 
RC IRR 

RS IG 


faard ado 


en sie SA fara or Afar fara 
© [20 lo 20 lo Ge 132 
© Jo Jo © jo KS ISR 


as Sl te He fa 923 Gy 
AVS AT 3 VW 13R 1Nz 139 


CCR RIC HRCOIME gS! 
Ya F ated BIT axe 
(qu) Was Rea we aha sermrarzuea) 

wat fara anfe BRR fora site 
© |o I 129 
RS IG WS IWS 
WC SE IS Is 
Z19 Iho 2 No 
BRE Zo EY AmTA 
BVT IBC WB ARS 
R92 Ie Bq Iho 
R8c lus Eq IB 
BW Io 24 Io 
Ro lo 33 14 
293 149 RX bos 
RV os BV We 
BRC IRR ROM 
BIC IRR RL $3 
* 3uls 16 R19 1% 
BOY 1%} Ru 13¥ 
3c Iss 83 143 
Yo} Io 22 10 
BR Iho Ro IRR 
SIE IVR c IR0 
SEBEL GIS 
SBR 12 ¥ Iko 
SSE IR? 2 IKE 


we wae site oat fora we MaKe fercat 
23 SEF IG . © 144 
cag So lo © lo 
(8) Wet & ee GUS 
aug wai aie = —- ARR fare afena 
° © |0 |o BZA AN) 
g © ISB 12 ¥3 139 EUS 149 
R VIVE GC ¥B KR BUL IKI9 
3 ——- 10 Ko %3 133 RUE 133 
¥ 2 IGS 1R3 BZ IS RYO 12 
u 2 1RBW IRQ BSW RWH G¥o 120 
& ¥ 12o Nis $2 I9 G2? 13 
\9 GIR IRS SV INS HIRI ARR 
c & TSR IRR 38 14S USS 183 
8 & 123 1R0 RC 1RG WIS? 14S 
Zo | WIR IG 9 IR U¥S 12 
RR 9 138 I¢ Bq IRY GR IRE 
RR CRY 133 BS IR SRI IK'9 
8 LSE 29 Ns SUC 1% 
RS BVI ARR VS AVS SRY IRB 
Qu & 184 Po PoE RS RCV WC 
gq & WG 188 RC 188. F¥R Io 
kas RO 1R& ISS Ru ISS ROR GR 
RC RO IBY NRC RV IBS BES IKE 
R8 RO 1ST IG KES BVP IRR 
2o Ro 143 IKE & 138 VI9¥ 123 
ERs RW lo Fw Q IRR RR0 [So 
2? RV 1 Lvs © jo CERIGC | 
83 RZ IR Ie 0 lo ZARA 
QN RZ IR We © |o © fo 
as! RRL we © |o B23 IBY 
ce RV IQ Is © Io C19 124 
V9 BVI wes © jo 232 Iv9 


frara eta 


HAT Sale are fora alfenet 
RX 12 [vo (BTA) I 13 2 Ia Iho 
RR lo PSS & 143 BWV GY 
FO Iho 1Kk RR IRY VEE IGR 
Fo 139 IRE Rq IRS BRV IRVe 
Ro Ro We RB 14a B4R Ik9 
Zo fo kz 23 Ie BBs IRE 
QR 1B WS BE UVC SSI AR 
FIRS IRE RS 13k SCR NBR 
€ PZ IGY 3¢ IK URS 14e 
CIR 1G Yo 188 US? IS 
9 IRV IR ¥@ IG lou 12 
& Io IRR ¥2 Io GR9 1KR 
& IGS IR SS IRR RVY 13k 
¥ IRQ KO SE WSK G33 14K 
¥ IRS S4 NS EX 120 
3 ISR 149 Su NG RUE IGG 
2 14s Iko Bu IS BUC IG9 
2 1RI KB ¥¥ IC EGS 1419 
R19 1KG ¥¥ 1Ro EUS IG 
© ISR 134 3134 RUC IK9 
© Io Io ° Io GUS G9 
HAF o 10 
We BH YH Bz IRE 
ier afer (har AeA Ahh) GS IC MAR eH Wo 12 
(2\9) Treat & vita wus 
wee sie SAR fara Fel aol 
© Io |o LS PE YIS2o Lay 
R IRS PSE ASIERS Uo’ Iko 
2 14S Iv AREY Ulgoo 13¥ 
IRS BG CR IRS 4ECE NRO 
& 149 IKE C8 lo GREE IRR 
9 12E Ie LC Iho GES 1K 


Bperferennt & TaH SCR 


we =waianfe aR fat ae Hof 

& 2 IKG RIG LC VSR GEOR IBY 
\9 RO IS IAS Cf Io GLI? IR\9 
é RP 1G IC CE IRR GYRE IRC 
gz 23 IY IRo C19 132 UYLO IE 
Qo 2¥ SS IGS C19 128 UWS ISS 
VP_- VK IRE 12 AEE LN GEE IG 
RJ AW IKI 14 Cu IR KZOR IS 
QB ARIS IE CR IRR GBR IR 
R¥ Jo 1BK Io 63 IGS GREY 1G 

Qu 22 148 IS LB 12S Koly Ivy 
RQ VBR ARS C2 18K SRC IR 

a9 VW IVY WY Co 19 VEX 132 
RL AR IR IBR LO 12% SLOR’ 
8 V9 IRE IGG \9Z lo BIOV’ IRR 
20 WS IK GY 9& L2R SESE IQR 
Rad RO IF 1A 9G 136 BSCE BE 
QR RX VG 143 923 1319 SIG VQ 
RF FV IRR BO 90 14 BRUW IVY 
ce-) BB PR IBY GC IRS SVQ UKE 
ary 3B 68 IG’ aw I& Yoo 132 
2G BH IGY Io 4S ISG BLY 1% 

YW  —--BR IGT SY UR IRS B93R 143 
26 BW IKO 1 42 14 FRY IGA 
cad 3C 183 18 WIS [RO BVEQ IFR 
ZO —- BR IFO IN So 1G BIL [S¥ 
RR BO IZ 10° Rv IS BIG IAG 
32 So MSG IVY Qu 9 2030 MX 
33 WR INVA 9 IY C23 Io 

38 BVA? IG & lo VIB IW9 
BK VLBW 1G (SA) & Iko BUC 14 
BR KY ARG 13H Iz Ws WIE ISR 


39 BPI LATS Yo rig : BALE 122 


wares aie 
WO IRL IWR 
BZ IRV AR 
BY 12 14W 
Bu PR IE 
33 1d Ig0 
BZ PWV AGE 
BH IRE IVS 
O12 13k 
Rw IG 133 
19 RY 148 


o Jo |o 


stan fran 
GY 138 
LR I 
RIC 
PER 13G 
ok 1k 
VUE 139 
322 Mo Asht AR) 
39 1G 
V2%o 13¥ 
V3 1G 


°o {Oo 


feared ctor 


wet auf 
BRWo 12 
RIE I 
RCRY IRR 
R920 Ivo 
R4RZ IRA 
WEL 139 
82193 IR 
RIZE Iv 
PAWS WKR 
RAGE 132 
PREY IE 


Goh HH BT 2G 3, aml H Ae HY BH Veo VT H sted BH 332, 
Ya Fea Hq I, TA A ses A eI HM VE 


PAA CMF KWAY O q 


(22) qa Fe UH H WER Whe GS 
eel fara BR fereanr 
© }o BB IZ0 
CS I30 SEW 
CCS ¥3 IGG 
R32 1B SF IRS 
RE IR BV ARC 
rE ABEL SR IRE 
RKO 1G Yo 132 
Zoo 132 38 IRR 
3¥O lo - 39 Ivi9 
3019 Ivig Bq RR 
SWB UGC BY 124 
SBC 123 32 12 
SCO Iho Ro 1 
GRR IXY WS 1X9 
&3R IBY Bq IKK 
KRY IRS, IZ IRR 
AME Yo 1G 


Tifa Fercan 
ABER 
BE IRC 
BEAR 
WII 13C 
BE IGG 
¥& Jo 
SE IK 
2 13Y 
SI IS 
Yo 130 
ROAR 
BE IRR 
R¥ IO 
FV AR 
RB IBY 
RE IKS 
V¥ Ig 


wel fertat 
GOR 14k 
RRS IRB 
EXY Io 

R4G IKR 
GEE IK 


° 

© IZE 139 
© 132 132 
© I¥Z lo 
2 IR wo 
R IRE 1R4 
R ARG OY 
J WIE 
R142 182 
2 TY 10 
2 12S 130 


RP ARZ RG 


VIR IGE 
2 13 13 
@IKG IRS 
3 IG IRR 

2 IR IR 

2 12WV 1Qo 
3 13E Ne 
2 IS& So 
2 143 Qe 
WIP IRE 


- BRR 


BET 1GR 
BZ 12k 
Wis Ixi9 
BWR IRR 
WII GR 
Bw Io 
WE C 
Qos 1Qo 
RVG IR 

CHARA 
RUD IRC 
REQ SR 
R4R IGE 
VSQ SY 
RIS Ro 
RY [Ro 
RR2 1B 
FoR 1G 
CR VSS 
9& 124 
GQ ho 

SE lo 


ONX 


ass GerN sie 


R 
R38 
ce) 


¥ NO 143 
BIZ ARS 
SIRS lo 


We Wh o jo lo, VA Ais Wy 132 
We Bx afer (ETT Ta) 4s 12, Bie ag BPH VCE 1S 
(20) qa & wile ue 


qs FAT 

° © jo Jo 

g RISB 

ct I IG IR 

3 3 N98 Iho 
X ¥ IYO 1G 

& BIRWR 

& & IBZ IG 
\9 19 12¥ 128 
va ~ I2G IR 

5 ZRH IR 
go RO IVY 1 
RR RI IRR IKE 
RR PVT 1G 
83 R23 IG RO 
R¥ 82 148 Ise 
Ru RS WKY IRE 
gq Ru PSS IRS 
a9 RE IBS Ro 
eA BD IRV AS 
28 VL NI ISR 
zo BS NGO IRS 
Pee RS IBZ PR 
Pky Yo IYO AR 
R32 20 SY IGG 
2 WILE MQ 


aan fern anfe 


& IRE 
S IRR 


° lo 


ata fora 
G2 13 
G13 
BW IRS 
BQ Ie 
KX 149 
GV 123 
Ro 148 
Ro Su 
UZ IQR 
&& Io 
Ia 142 
Ia 123 
4a I 
GY 1319 
42 SE 
GR 143 
Ko IQ 
C9 SSR 
SY IRB 
¥2 IGI9 
SW Ie 
BC 184 
3¥ 143 
3h 1G 
9 KY 


faard edt 


alien 
BQ 13¢ 
Rq 1X9 


° |o 


aera fer 
WEY 129 
VIEW IVR 
C94 KR 
WISE IGE 
WI9BG IVE 
S99 12 
SESY IY 
VEER 1G 
VEO 12 
SROKG ILO 
S4URC Yo 
YG IZ 


| BSCR Pig 


SIZ LE 
SQZCO PSE 


. BRYS NGS 


SAGE WE 
SQOO (Qo 
YO 139 
WOKS 12G 
BVVe INE 
BVVw IRE 
3282 IR 
Z9RZ 133 
ZECS KS 


Bpelfianr a res 


¥RQ 
wes wie ara feat - aera fercar 
Qu 22 13 14 B38 IRS BEOE 12¥ 
VW AV MG 12B Ro IKE BY IB 
Ww AY [RR AVS BY IY BBO 1g 
WAV Mo vw Z IRR B3KO 142 
Wo VV Aho 1G BIR 3WEQZ Iho 
Zo BZ 1KZ IRS (STS) VIS BLVE VB 
Ex Bz Who 1BE & 1Be ROS IAG 
BX%_—_ AV IWR lo R918 Zoo? Iz 
33 QV IRI IGS VARS BVH [GQ 
BY AIG 1B 33 1R8 Wo IGE 
gu QT AVE UWS SPARS VAIS Py 
BE Jo IK lo KR IG ERIS 13 
FACE BZ IK IRE Bz kg BESS AG 
36 AS HO ly 2 Ie WY 13S 
8 R19 13S IRC CR ARR WES 133 
wo Bq IAG IGG R32 138 BIZ IRQ 
SP VW IV 1 Ro} lo WIVF IV 
SX_——-RV IGS VU RRB IR BK 14 
SF AN IG AN RWIR IW IRF 132 
VS ——- FIG NE RW IV BWLo I3W9 
SQ KR IQK IY R3q 14 WBS 1G 
WE ¥ Io Ko RRS IRO BRAG QW 
M9 VIRR Io BYR Ro WLW 1S 
¥2 0 Io Io 0 Jo WRo 133 
Ue HH VE, BYHA VW 
a Ff red Oh a HS 220 TT Sea aT eg Go Uf A rea aT 
HK LYS Ya SAA HT HH YOR TA A HA H HHL 
(2%) qa vite Gus & dafers aA 
WS Fay aTatt fora aera fora 
© © Jo to ELS S9Vls 
g Ris KR IR WWE AVE 
2 VWIRG Ko SR WOR IC 


* 312 14Y 


¥ IB ARE 
& 12 16C 
& 12 133 
9 12 143 
€ AR IGR 
R lo Ig 


—& 1GN9 119 


RO 1KZ IBS 
2% IS IG 
RVI PGR ERA 
RZ IRE IRA 
RT IRI ARE 
RH IO RO 
R& IG IR0 

RE IKR QO 


819: 134 1Ro 


RS IRE IQ 
Ro IG IRQ 
RR 1B0 Ie 


- 20 1 IG 
20 1BW AVS 


BZ lo Bo 
BW ARV URE 
IV IRS Mo 


BWV UGI AE 


BW IGS IR 


RZ IR Po (SA) 


BW IGW FRW9 
BP PSG A 
BW IRF IVG 
WI Peis 


frat ator 
aera fercar 


SiI90® Io 
SECS IRB 
VESZ 13 

SEBS KY 
BREW IWR 
S4RGY PSR 
SHER WS 
SUE VG 
SSCY NKR 
SEER SOS 
SIVS IVS 
SIZ RZ 
BCS IRR 
BRIV UW 
BRGO 1KZ 
VRorgs 12 
Yoo iG 
BIG [KR 
BRoo IRB 
BLAIS I 
Zo Jo 

SEG? Ivo 
B4SZ UGC 


RAO IRI9 


BS [4 
BIVY VR 
BRO Iho 
BRE MSG 
BORVAR 
Zood 13k 
WW IBC 
RCS 13 


Uperferant Tes 


as Gait 
Bu RO 1ZO 1G 
36 RS ISLA 
RB V2 ILE IB 
32 V9 IKE 13 
38 R& IE IRo 
BO | BY IRE IRY 
BR RZ IGE SR 
SR RV IRS Ro 
B3 Ro 130 IVY 
SE CBS IGG 
Ric) & IRR ARS 
BE ¥ 12S $3 
A) VT IRR NAG 
SC © Io |o 
wal fora 
° oO lo Jo 
g R IRS IRR 
R © 182 18 
3 = VINES 
4 QI’ IRS 
& & PSH 1KQ 
& RIG AR 
\9 2 124 Mo 
é I ISS ISS 
4 2 13 13 
RO 3 RO RY 
RR Q UB VG 
RR 2 143 Io 
33 ONS ISR 
R8 BIRR WBE 
Ru IBY IRR 


Bra fearcat 
BI IW 
KR IRS 
Ro IRo 
\go 9 
Lo Ik 
CR IRE 
RB IRE 
08 Is 
RAH IRR 
PAV IRE 
RVe WE 
R3z IRC 
RQ UAH 
© to 


(22) Fe % We GUS 


BR 


werent fear 
WEY IRF 
FEC IQ 
PEW IVS 
WHS Ww 
WX 13k 
WV IRE 
VWB4Y 132 
VBZoW IGE 
QVEV UG 
VRS [Vs 
BSG RS 
WY 1219 
VVEV’ [SS 
WHS IVC 


alfene fac 
Pr oerad 
BROS 
3S 2. 
32 IR 
BV IRE 
BWV 
208 IG 
WE 133 
WY IVS 
WZ IGS 
BV’ NRE. 
WB IZ 
BWI Ike 
WG 1Aw 
Qoo 13% 
R23 13 


MRE fiers cdot 


wet fern sar fara alfena fear 

2&6 & ISK XO Qow® REX IX 

a9 IKK 14Q é 14 BSE IY 
860 OUI 9 1319 AE Ik 

85 & IR IRG & RG Zou 143 

Jo . & IRS IXo ¥ IGG £4 IRC 

bed & 123 134 3 133 EW 12S 

RR & IV IC Vie S312 

83 & IRS 1G o So Rk 133 

ce-9 & IRE IGE ° Io © |o 


WE Ach to 1, VT ies (Ae Tad) 4S 12, 
We He ey 148, Vite ee APH GY Ie 


(23) Teh vie Gs 

ag GH aa fare wer aot ferent 
° © Io |o . 3& 139 YO 1B0 
g © IF& 139 3G IRE BROW MW 
2 RZ 1B 3K IRR BRO 1B 
3 RBZ ARG Bu IGE ORT IGR 
% VIR’ IE 34 12% BOL IGG 
& 3 10 130 3% Ke Voz 142 
& BIBE IRS BY IG Yoo 12o 
\g ¥ lo MS 33 143 YOVYW IS 
é % 183 139 32 14S YORE Zig 
sg & IRE 124 32 13 Yoo 132 
Ro & ISS IBC 32 1g BSC 12% 
Ra & IRS 1S 20 lS F<Go lo 
22 & Ie se XC Iho 3832 14¥ 
23 WINS 132 29 183 FIok 1GQ 
RW 9 HWE 12 BR | EAC LOM LAL) 
Ru €ARQV USC Vv IGS BCC] IY 
2G c 139 Ig 23 [Ro BER ARE 
aC) g 1R iy Bk WE © RIBIR IRE 


..4 BIRR GR RS.15% ITO IRR 


Spell F TER 


ws aT 

cr eee 
Ro RO 10 IRS 
28 RO IVE IRR 
2%_— Yo [BO IRS 
23 Ro SR IY 
QW RO Iho IKQ 
pat RO IG 1B& 
ge RVR WE 
Qs VIP 149 (BTA) 
RO RV AV IBA 
ras RO IGG IRQ 
Zo Ro KR GY 
ER RO 13S 183 
RR FO IRE 13k 
33 20 12 IRC 
BY BRB 
Ru & IBS IR 
BES IW IRE 
39 SIRE KY 
32 IKZ Io 
a8 9 IR IR 
Yo —-& 13& 139 
SR & 143 14S 
YX HIN IG 
YB WIRE 
MSE BIBL Iw 
SQ VIGO. 1R 
BE R PH 148 
M9 GK RB 
¥~ 0 Jo Jo 


” aan fara 


R19 ISX 
gy 143 
23 IKE 
RB IRE 


» is 


& sx 
BIRR 
RRR 
RIG 
BIRR 
9 129 


20 182 


R23 KR 
Re 

Ro IVY 
WB TR 
V9 14 

Zo 13k 
33 SK 
3K 183 
38 Ivo 
SQ 183 
SY IR 

SCR EAC) 
SZ 1319 
KR ARR 
KR IRC 
KZ IRC 
GY 183 


o jo 


SAC) 


ae wot fercar 
Z903 lo 
REY IRY 
BEY [SY 
BUCY IRo 
BUY PSR 
Boo 134 
B¥UIS IGC 
FRG AR 
RG IGG 
BR? IS 
BACH IkI9 


- BISBNRC 


FYOR IR 
BRO Io 
FRR WWE 
3020 132 
BOW [WR 
300K fo 
WWW NR 
28¥o IR 

WSO8 [KR 
BCCR ARG 
BANG IRS 
WIG Is 

WRG IGQ 
YLo0 12 

VICE VW 
Vole WE 
VIsQ 1Q 

WES 1B 


am BR 8G, aH MEAS aT ee HK Vav, VTA area ex 
ave, Ta A sea HR ev, PA BN HAI Hz Yo 


¥RC | | frara etor 
(2) BE H WE US 
° “0 fo lo 9 1G 220 13K 
g © N9 TRY 9 123 223 1G 
2 © 128 13¢ 19 1% Bh lg 
“3 © IRF 138 & Mv Lod MR 
% 0 1RL 123 & IR Zou IGE 
& © 12% Iho & 182 20’ 13R 
q © TSP AR & GY RS le 
9 © IE IGE & 134 Ru 12% 
é © IGR IRR & IR Bz Io 
2 © 149 14% ¥ 14s C8& 126 
Yo VAR BBY C2 82 
22. VN IR ¥ 12 AK ISB 
RQ RRR Re . 3 IGE 9X 12S 
83 RBG RY! 2 1388 RE Ig 
&% R IRC IGE Q le RO 13¥ 
Ru IR IVS 2 1KR US ISS 
co) VARS IGE I IR SZ UR 
as RAR IRB RilRS BRIS 
ma <4 ARS 13S g ee gu IG 
Ze VURR ARR R128 BR to 
29 BARR TKR gs WS 143 
RR TARR AGS cae ba 82 TSR 
BR RIBS GR. o IR9 RQ IZ0 
33 R IBe WRC © 188 & 14 
VE g 13K 130 o |o o |o 


are af oto Hee as CE 
KS 1d BH ae Fe IC MT Hs ATH BI Io 


Bperfsanr & yes 


CONES ate ts te 
ws weit SR ferean 
° © Io lo & IGE 
g © 1G IKE & 182 
R © 123 12S & 138 
3 © 120 Io & IRR 
% © IRE IRR & IG 
& © 132 1° G IRE 
& © 1319 IGE & IRR 
9 © 183 129 & 12 
é © IS IRS Y ISG 
s © 143 13° SAG 
20 © 1419 12S SAR 
RQ_ VR RO z Iv 
RR RIK IR RIG 
a8 RI PR RAR 
RE BIRR SY 2 Ive 
Qu RIMS IRR VARY 
RR FIRE IGE I Ro 
Rs RB 1Rs 1g MC 
Rc R IR° AWS RRB 
a8 BIRR ARG BIRR 
20 2 IAB NK. © 14d 
RR & IVS DE © 1319 
QR RIE RZ © 13 
83 R IRE PSR © 188 
ces R IR& lag ° |o 

- (28) Ym & ei ves 
EC Tc SI fearcar 
° ° lo Jo aX 1318 
4 & 18¥ RY Q¥ 132 
R RIS ts Vv IBG 
3 ¥ 183 WY BX 123 


BRR 


alfetet 
2019 IVE 
Zou Is 
ROR WR 
VOR INS 
QS IRS 
Qu IRE 
Rk 13 
69 NC 
£3 1K 
19% 124 
oY 12% 
90 1¢ 
KG 1219 
GO ky 


WYRE 


¥R Pog | 
OE RY 
RC IGS 
BB IRS 
WS IGS 
I Is 
RK IGR 
RR IG 
& 1319 


oO jo 


ae aot fercen 


4RRO 133 
KSVE?™* IRR 
USAR SE 
USO’ 132 


Koo Tasrt edo 


we Fis STAR feat ae aut fara 
¥ & 129 149 QS IRR GCC3 WOE 
& 9 1G2 IR Q¥ IX UCUE 132 
& ZIRE IRB RB vv 4CC3 130 
\9 Zo 1&Q [G9 Q¥ ILS QISZ¥ 13 
é RP 1B 1 R3 IRQ - CE YARNS 
g R¥ NI 132 82 1G KRCI9 13 
RO BH IGHO 13 82 Io URI IGS 
R2 B19 123 132 RQ 13S GYRE IRC 
VX_— ASW 19 Sz 134 USE IGS 
RZ Yo IRD 1GR Sa USI IV 
WY WKS 1G Zo IR UBB IVY 
RK BB NRS 18¥ ZR GR UILW IGS 
RE WW IGT RG CC IR UREX 129 
BS JE ING 1RE CE IW Kola 133 
VL UB IVE 143 C4 IGS BEG IRS 
22 QZ ieW Iho Lu IRE CCU SC 
Qo Zo 1319 122 CS WAV WISVE IC 
“3 FRA I C2 IBY E¥3Z0 1% 
RR 33 IRR Sw C2 IRE S40 lo 
23 3 IG Jo (9 lo S3C2 139 
WR —- FRM Io WER IGG SW IG 
Bq BW IRS GK (9% 12 SRV WY 
RE BL BHI 98 138 BIVWS IVS 
YW  —--BS_INKE Ivo &I9 12o BCE IGE 
2 Wo GY Il EY 1k BEXL LY 
W_— KV IGR 1 Go ey B42 4B 
FO WV IGR 142 GY 1K2 33R2 IQ 
3X WB IG’ Iw XO IGG SBE IVS 
3% WW KZ 1B SI BE Zod 13¢ 
FB WH IRE RG Bq IRo BWBVF UR 
BY WR IV 1G I¥ IRo VIE GY 


Ru SHIRE IGG RZ NRO VARIG IVS 


BRC TT | GOR 
ora fereat 


as 3=fcle set at fercar 
3E BE IBS 124 (BID) GIR VBR IGS 
Z9 YE IFW IRQ RS 133 VRS VG 
BL BR IRI 138 S23 IR9 Wok 13 
BZ HY IBBW IR RL IG LI¥ZB Ive 
yo WS NRW IRD Zouk IY RIL 1QG& 
SY BR ABA GS V9 Peig VE VG 
SX WO ANY AR YOR IKE Ye 138 
SB BH IVY 1G WR IVY VBYo 142 
SB BRNO BRO IR RWW GR 
SH AR 1YO Io SKS ROW 1 
BE UL NBS GK BBV 1G LORS 13R 
BAC) PSS KR GLY IG® 983 Ive 
UC © |o lo © lo BVH IVD 


ooh BF Velo Gh H a Hee es ea YA ore aT ew 336 
Uf F Sea Ht HS VY UH SET HF VG YA Sea HT HH UCB 
AS are od area ar ofa sea a hs 8 US aT Oa aT 


FG eee ee 


vo 


AMY 3ea HI Hz 0 
(29) ym & dafers vite we 

BOT STA force 
© lo jo VY RG 
R IRS ARG VE IRS 
3 Ie ee BY IRR 
BS ISB 1G R¥ 18 
& 18 1R& 2 Iho 
19 IKE IG R32 IGR 
QI IGE RB IRR 
RO NGS IRC RR KS 
RV IRV ARG R23 1G 
RS 1G 133 Bz IKG 
RH IRS IRC R2 1Be 
RIG IRV IRE RV IRI 


aero fereaT 
US RZ lo 
UVES ISB 
USO IBY 


BAL Mas 


ULIOY 128 
UCCS IRE 
UERS IRR 
UIVIY 14 
UI9RZ 1X 
KEISC 13 

GEO IGS 


_ KAUB Ko 


Wor 

qs weil 

RQ RS ISP 138 
R23 Yo IVY 149 
av BW IH 14 
gu 23 18 Is 
2G VW WE WS 
9 QE IVF IVS 
VC VWI IW 131s 
88 BS WARE 
0 RO IBZ las 
BY_ BR IGE IVS 
RR 33 182 1G 
3 BW 13S 1 
Ww 34 IG Isa 
ba BNO 193 1G 
bet BC IRS IG 
Ve 3S 188 IRE 
VAC Wo WE Qo 
WZ WR WHO LRG 
Bo} — WP Iho 1 
38 BZ PY IRV 
(32 WH IRR IRB 
BF WH ING IGE 
38 SH IZ IRD 
gu SE IR AR 
3G WEIR 138 (STA) 
39 WK IRI ARO 
3¢ SR IZ 132 
38 SV& 19 130 
Yo = 1G 132 
¥R SI IRL 13S 
BR FS 142 RY 
$3 FE IVY IRQ 


STA FTA 
Sak eA 
Ro IGE 
Qo 1X 


ASE) 


C9 ISS 
CZ IS 
C4 SS 
CS 13BE 
CB IVS 
C2 IY 
Co 143 
92 1ew 
9G 132 
\9¥ Io 
9% IRR 
RE IGS 
RY IBY 
Ro 1219 
WS 1B& 
BCS IRE 
BAR 
RR IRC 
BZ 1B 
RR IRC 
VRS 
XO PSR 
SSAC 
90 142 
Yow IL¥Y 
RKO IR¥ 
Fok 1B 
R94 19 


fasra edu 
serenot fercar 


USEC IQ9 
US2Y WS 

4333 I4¥ 
UWB 1K 
URYE IQ 
HOUR IKE 
RUS RO 
SS4R SB 
VY9Yo 12 

VEZ IBR 
BHO IWS 
SBE I 
BIE IRE 
BRRV ARS 
BSY¥Y IRR 
BERR RG 
BEC IRB 
B48C IG 
3329 XC 
BIZ RY 
Rows IRV 
BWV IBY 
WUE TRY 
R4SS IRS 
VEIV WS 
VES IGN 
VWVoG [VC 
BQSH IG 
V9C18 13 

VEZV wR 
CLE [SY 
22xF FO 


403 
Ba IneACe BAO 14S Ro 12G 
Bq 1G RG, ¥¥I9 129 BLL? Ig 
SCAG HRC IZ ROW IRE 
Q IRE IGE UISE IKE R193 1u 
© 10 to © jo RUL fo 

(2¢) UAH We Ge 
tel fercat SR fara Tifa forat 
© Io RS I3¢ © Igo 
RR 13¢ RZ 133 © 185 
BS Re RZ IR o IR 
4S 133 RB is © Ifo 
\a\9 Yo Vo SY © |%o0 
B18 124 WL Io © 120 
BUOY 219 143 © Io 
R32 13C R19 IRQ ° 18 
Quo lo 2& Yo 0 18 
REE Io. RK IG 18 
RL IBC RH IRR 012 
VB IS 2% 1X 012 
WI PB ARE ° 19 
RIGBY Bz 128, o 18 
RIC 1B BRIE 1G 
WF ARB Yo 123 ° 1 
B4F KR By © 14 
REZ iis CWS ow 
so 1e¥ & 143 ov 
RIB Is & No ow 
IWR Wi B IRV9 © 12 
QQw 12% - 3 1ex © 12 
QBVWe IW. RIG O 182 
288 123 © 1319 © lo 
Zoo fo o jo °o |0 


Woy Prerd ator 


on 
z= 


ig (28) aft a He Gus 
ws eT ata fercar afte 
° © Jo Jo VS IR B9R 19 
g © 12S 122 IW IRE ZI9d ISR 
2 © ISS 13¢ B¥ 13 RR RE 
ZV ARV US 23 IS BEY IRS 
% @ 13E 1G 23 1X9 BUS 16K 
& @ IGS IS? II PSK BKR SY 
& IIR IW WIZ 3¥¥ 120 - 
4g 2 8X Io I 133 FBV IG 
é 3 1G 183 Yo PSR Fo No 
g 3 IRE IGG RB Iho JOR 43 
Fo | BIKER SG Bo IGE ISH 132 
BQ WAG IK R9 1GR YCo IR 
RX WIZ BR RE SY IGF IVR 
82. ¥ I¥o IR 8G IBY ISH BY 
VX ¥AWY GR B¥ 1G WE I 
& 1R0 1G RI IK OR IGG 
RE KIRIN RX 132 TAME 
R19 & BK 134 Ro Ns REX I¥o 
A a) 2 “BG V¥ IWS 
92H IYB IRS 19 Ih BRIG 
Jo G0 1B. & 133 RE RG 
RZ HIGH IGG SAR (WOR IER 
Wz & I< 149 2 IRS _ WEARS 
2B GIVVNVe © 14 . IW 12 
res BIW ts © jo © jo 


FR AE o lo lo He he Ath 2 lo 
vite af 48 ic i as afte G9 12 
(fa net afer) | 


Spenreenny & wes 


qo 
_ (Ro) MAS ye Gu 

ws Fa aan fer aera fara 
2 © Jo Jo ~ 2V1IGS BEYO 19 
g © IRQ IGS : 2% k-£4 YAS A 
R © 182 Ive BARE BLK 122 
3 14 IRB BUS BLOR Ii 
¥ R IRE PSR BWR VIVE IRV 
& Qe se Yo 132 PICA ae ag 
& 21S 14 Ro Ny BIER 1Ro 
\9 I IR™} ARR As ae RVI ME 
vA 2 Ee 13 RZ AR BVGO IKE 
\ Cet RL ARS Z9¥S 1GY 
Ro 3 1X4 IRB 89 138 B9IZq IF 
Ra 2 IRA RE IGS BIVV_ 1G 
RX VIO NR RK IG Zou [Ko 
RP WARE IG Ru IXo FRCS 1G 
Bw WIRR ARE Rw IBY REIL 13 
Bq BW PGH 13N R31 FRGR IC 
2& SIGE PE 22 Ise BRIBE. 
as & 1RO ILS RQ leo BGRZ IRC 
Rc &IRQ AR Q s8 B42 1K 
88 & IRR PSG & I3G ZUIVO 124 
<P 4 PSO IRR 9 IRC B4¥S IG 
RR & P89 138 gq IS BRAG GQ 
2 & IK3 SC S132 ROR 14 
3 & IGS IRR 3 IRR BYLO 12R 
Vs & IR IR0 R Pee BVA 1G 
gy & IR 1G © 12 3¥33 18% 
“Rg & 13 12 (BTA) RRs BOR IRC 
YW BIR Ro rarad FICE IGY 


Bt4 & IKR IRR BARE BRE RS 


wok 

ae HIT 

28 & IQS IKK 
30 & IS Io 

38 & TSR IRS 
32 & IRV AR 

33 & IRR IE 

BY IC RY 

34 WIG IBS 
BR WB AR 

B39 W IRL UA 
BL BN ING 

38 3 SZ ARG 
Yo 3 IVI’ ARG 
BR VIGS ISS 
BX PARE ARG 
83 VIVA AK 

S% 2 IE WSC 
SY RIO 1K 
ME © ILY 129 
VIB oo ING 1VI9 
SC © |o lo 


" Stat feat 


& IKK 

19 SE 

8 183 

FO IGG 
VV 1BY 
BAR 

RH 1ZR 
V3 12 
Rc IBX 
%@ Iko 
BW [ko 
BI IRE 
Bz 1% 
2B Io 


“RK RO 


Qu 149 
Ve IBY 
219 lo 
9 Nols 
© lo 


ferara edu 


wet Hot fercar 
BIIL1GS 
FIVE IKE 
3AIVB IRV 
FZ [Qo 
BAwR Xo 
BRAS KY 
BROS [WY 
ESCA Oe 
BRGI 1G 
BV4G AR 
BVIF MR 
FIV IGE 
ZIV 
BRO WY 
BOZO IG 
BOzR IO 
FOWsy IAG 
Zolgo [Vo 
Zo 13 
ZOEK 133 


am HS RG Fee HE (GH Ta H ate) vu VT ore HI 


343 Ya A sca aI Hx Co TV eI A Sea H WV 


(3%) AAA Ya WS THT Vuls Vos 
ANT ASAT SYS Ha He Aer qa Uist ante 
g coo © IRR IZO 1S GR 
2 Roo © 1RS PG IG IRE 
3 Woo IR IGE IRV 1R0 
% Roo. BIR WS UWS IVS 
ue Sooo 21K 1K IGS [Ro 
€ ¥L00 VIRV ARTS) 1V_ PE 


Ret Fs Hell 
WRoo 
EYoo 
\SQoo 
Zooo 
gC00 
RGo00 
20800 
RRRoo 
22000 
2RIXLoo 
RRO 
Uy¥oo 
B4RO 
°Gooo. 
RRLoo 
RELOX 
AVRoo 
RLYo° 
QgR00 
Qooo0o0) 
RoLoo 
RRoo 


Kolg 


Feat Ta TM snfe 
BAR IVY VS iv 

3 IK IW 13S G9 
BART IGS IGE 123 
IG IYO 1]B® Vw 
SARS IVR 1G Ny 

& IC 1G IGS 1QG 

& IRR IRIS 133 1R9 
E IW IR?) 12 18 
GIRS 1B IRG 134 
19 10 TER 119.143 - 
19 123 14S 14? ISG 
9 1ZO [BH 1RO IRR, 
613 184 PKB 

€ IRE IGE 1RO IGG 
J IG PS UVR UVB 
ZX IVOI“E 1ZO MC 


2 12 19 1h Wok 


Zo NI 1X19 Mo 132 
FO 1VZ IWR AGS IKE 
Ro 129 13 132 Iho 
Qk IRE 1S IG 1 
Reto lo jo 


s 
° 
“ 


oN CGM FSF K ww er 


rAA 6 MM ww AD ro 
ms - ~ Bs 


frard ata 


(22) Bathe et 8 Ta WES FETT Vi9e Veit 


uf suite 

© lo-18'l0 132 
° lo lo 12 13 
0.10 lo 18.134 


-@ jo lo RAG, 
© 10 fo 12 132 


© jo Jo 13 1 
© Jo Jo 13 M88 
Plo lo IS ARR 


0 lo 10 TY eS 
© JO Jo 1h IBY 


0..JO 10. 12% igo 


fea 
, oO 


0 16 16.484 KEL Ro 


8 10 Jo 12% N62 
om10 Jo 12K IR 


° lo Jo 132 133; 
© Jo Jo .13& WC). 


© 10 lo PERS 


© 10 10 Aw IRE, 


© 19, IWR 134 


(0 19 TR SY MRO, 


° 
° 


“1X 139 WY 
© 1o 13 130 188 
© 10 TS IRR IGS 

§ 0 10 1K RG IRR 

0 10 1G 16 13 
© fo Ii9 lo 132 
o fo 19 13 123 


POA CM ff K ww 


afer ante 

© 10 1S IK IS 
© Io 1819 138 1K 
© 10 12E R19 123 
© 10 134 13 1RQ 
0 10 $3 SIGS 


“0 10 TKI IBM AGE 


© 1% IL 120 13 

© 12 IQ 1K IVR 

© 1R IRS GIS 

© 1% 129 13G IKIs 
© 12 IKH 1RG 143 
© TY 122 143 Iho 
© 14 Iho IRQ 
© 19 1RS 1S SB 

© 12 144 89 Mo 
© 12 IRQ AIRY IRE 
© IR WSF 13 133 
© (23 IS PSR IBo 
© 12 13& IZ AIS 
© 12S IVY IBS 143 
ZIBB WS IGS 128 
RRS} IRE IR PSG 
IV IRZ UY [Bs (Re 
@ IWS 1B IKE 13S 
3 IRI IW IVE 
3 IRE Iho 134 130 
SURV RE IGYW IGE 


apetfint 3 yea 


Ufst anfe 
WIRE 1B IVY 123 
BIR 1G IVE WR 

WINS’ 12 UBL 

19 1RW IRI IGE [RZ 
© 129 12K [LZ GR 
& 1G 12S IVE RY 

Qo 12 12 Wo NE | 
@IR™}S IH IGQH IR 

19 IRS IRF IS IRB 


Gof 

afer ante 

© VRO 132 133 1wE 
‘8 IRV PS PH 13g 

VQ 1IY 139 1AW® 1VW9 

I IRV AS 1H 1B 

3 IRV WR (4!e WES 
MY 1B IV IRI 13YW 

S123 WE WE LRo 
& IY IRS RO 1G, 

& IY GR 1FZ GR 

GIVE 1RZ 1G IRV 


ener Ut TH RS BE Be BTA To Ng oe HTT, 


ae amfe 3 19G 133 Ps9 1% Io Tet foraTante 
© fo 13 1B IG [B34 ACM Faq V 1B 1G MWY PSP 
fia 


ma (TTA) ¢ IRC 


4Ro 


mira |= aT 

at ata 
Ta aI 
ena 


CASE ETA 3V3C 
ARE MES EE! 
REV IZO BX 
BAY RO B¥RO 
WET ARR. BRGY 
UG IGE 33R¢ 
~ &OZ WO 332% 
TAME MELAS 
9RI9 IRB BLA 
RO CYAN 3BBq 
RL RRB WE FBV 
RVR ACLVIA_—-BRRA 
2B ROVE Io BRLO 
WS ROW IGS FREQ 
Bq RGR IVE BRVY 
PE RAW IVW FW 
RI9 RAG IV BLY 
VL AAV NF FVVV 
%R LBRO IGN BRL¥ 
JO BUS Iho BRB 
BW RICK IZ BEG 
B® RIV NS LGC 
BB YWOE WS BWQW 
WE Wo lo 3R4F 


aaa 


SAGCMS Kaw w v0 
rt? Cuts 


sda 
Tq 
CATT 


Pree 
Bq IRE 
RZ IRG 
PIV NVA 
RES 184 


URE IBY 


Ww? AS 

WES IVES 
CASES 
BWS VG 
B¥9 2 
ZI 149 
So’ iQ 

SRY PSY 
WEL 13C 
¥190 Io 

BER ARR 
HOG 126 
GIRARD 
433 IY 
WSF IRB 
KO 1319 
WAY IGS 
GR 124 


ahaa 
Crd 
WUT 


321k 
EY 128 

RE IRR 

Re 18 

RS 133 
Ro 133 
WAS 

V4 IVZ- 
220 ISB 
Fok IY 
339 13 

3&3 IRC 
322 M4 
BRI IBS 
BBY 143 
SUG 1G 
Vi9s 12 
BRAG 

Kok 123 
GBB 123 
URE NY 
G33 ISG 
G39 14S 
URS 13 


frara ain 


(93) Waa Ba sila sre H Tah TS THIN LEO Ves | 
stye Fratet sean 


& ST 


Rog [VW 
SRR RE 
RYO 13R 
E2X“S VS3 
ROZS IVS 
RWS IG 
YER IG 
PGK IRB 
RLS Meg 
VROR 1B¥ 
WFR Iw 
BERR IRD 
WSO 139 
Zool 134 
BBO RG 
BY¥\80 IL4Y 
3908 WE 
BVBq IVS 
SLE 183 
SSRI ARB 
VEEL 12G 
SSIIQ RA 
HIER PBR 
UYyoo 


& OUT 


Ro IRR 
FE ow 
IRS 
9k IR 
Cu SE 
Rok 1Q4 
RRR GY, 
LWW 139 
RIS IRR 
BO ARE 


VS IGE 
GW9 IRE 
USE LY 
VY IY 
239 wu 
RXs_(1G 
RRo IY 
Ro IRE 
Zo IRy 
9& Iso 
KR IRS 
3G RW 
RQ IRS 


© lo 


SReaEK Te 


QRR 
(3%) SH dal TASK SRI sh fas aa 

qd ararat Sahel AA . Fefas eis 

sada : al AM aa a 

Teta} B 129 GIA 

co a RI 19 1GY vv RI IE Io 

ST VVSGq IRB RRER IY 

SAAT Jo IRR Iko Rise 

aSaT FZ 1Zo JWR IS 

Wary ER IBZ 10 90 IRQ 

IPL SRA vA Yoo 

qd ararat saat AA ae fag gear 

aada al A aay 

SR SMR ta | WE 1Zo 

Bpe 4 afta BORV IBY” BIS IVY 

Sea At Re RY 2 132 IBY 
(34) WH SI fata Gus ssai WaT 30 ai Vota 

aeua =o faa aT feat wifene 

FRA 3 ante 

was sie 

° © Jo Io RZ IRG VIR 

g © IRR IRR RZ IR BSB IRE 

2 ORE IRS ARNG CASED 

3 © 1419 12e Ro ISS R20 IRS 

% @ IRE IV VL 13¢ 22% 12 

& R 1BX IGE Ro 183 Wd IR 

& BIGZ IS Ro 18 VWI (SZ 

‘9 III [Ro R9 IRS VEZ WE 

c 2 IR? WBS V9 18 REY PQ 

@ Sy ISB RE 123 WE 13k 

go 31 1G Ru ISS III IRS 

RR 3 1X9 1GY BIR Bq 

R2 BIBVIGS —-- BWR Jos 14K 

3 3 Iso 1G RBI RRR IGR 


ce.) Blo 132 LeeLee A198 lo 


faery 

ST 

ante 
IW Iho 
IW 13 
VS 13S 129 
S IS} 129 
IK IKE 
IG 123 
& 12 12S 
& IK IGS 
& IC 188 


G1 143 


rans air 
aifenet 


PRR IRR 
PWG IR 
RZo |o 
RRV IRE 
Rv 1Ro 


(98 Is 


KIS IRR 
32 16 
RZ IG 


© jo 


